1i PP-'P^ 



iii^ 



'ill 




p 



'' Gixurntu Wkis l-rlatl in With ^r rrii ^ 

5 (Shan ritiris ryrhr orfrAflp 4ir cinv saiilrir 9 



ANNUAL IlEPOET 



OF THE 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN mSTITUTION, 



SHOWING 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION 
OF THE INSTITUTION 



yOK THE 



YEAR ENDING- JUNE 30, 1S8G. 



PART II 



WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 

1SS9. r7 '^iSa. 



FiFTiETn Congress, First Session. 

Concurrent resolution adopted by the House of Representatives July 23, 18S8, and by the 

Senate October 1, IsSS. 

Eesolved by the House of Bepresentaiives (the Senate concurring), Tliat there bo ])rinted 
of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution and of the National Museum for the years 
ending June 30, 1S86 and 1887, in two octavo volumes for each year, 16,000 extra copies 
of each, of which 3,000 copies shall 1)o for the use of the Senate, 6,000 copies for the 
use of the House of Representatives, and 7,000 copies for the use of the Smithsonian 
Institution. 



The Aumial Eeport of the Board of Eegeiits of llio Smithsonian 

Institution for the year ending June 30, 1880, consists of two parts, viz: 

Part 1. — Report of the Smithsonian Institution proper, showing its 

operations, expenditures, and condition. 

ir. — Report of the United States National Museum, showing its 

progress and condition. 



REPORT 



UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM 



UNDKR THE DIRECTION OF 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



FOR THE 



YEAE ENDING JUNE 30, 1886 



REPORT OF THE UiNlTED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE 
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1886. 



SUBJECTS. 

Part I. — Report of the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution upon the condition and progress of tlie ^Museum. 
II. — Reports of the Curators. 
III. — Reports upon special collections in the National jMuseuin, 

and papers illustrative of the collections. 
IV. — Bibliography. 
V. — List of accessions. 



United States National Museum, 

Washmgto7i, February 1, 1887. 
Sir: 1 have the honor to submit herewith a report upou the present 
condition of the Museum, and upon the work accomplished in its vari- 
ous dei^artments during the year ending June 30, 1880. 
Very respectfully, 

G. Brown Goode, 
Assistant Secretary^ Smithsonian Institution, 

in charge of TJ. S. National Museum. 
Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



. « ■Lie. 

Subjects y, 

IXTKODUCTOKY LETTER yj, 

Ta ble of coxtents • , ^ 

Pakt I.— Report of the Assistant Secretary in (-iiAitGE ok ihe Na- 
tional Museum. 

Coiulition and progress of the U. S. National Mus(Miin, 188G ,1 

A. — The Museum staflP ; 

B. — The condition of the collections 7 

Census of collections o 

Catalofjiie entries <; 

C. — Review of the year's work in the scientific departnieiits: 
Division of Anthropology : 

Arts and Industries t;^ 

Ethnology 13 

Aboriginal American Pottery 13 

Archa'ology 14 

Division of Zoology : 

Mammals ]5 

Birds 1 f; 

Bird.s' Eggs If) 

Reptiles and Batrachians «!-; 

Fi.shes IH 

Mollusks(incliuling Cenozoic Inveitcbrate Fossils) 17 

Insects 18 

Marine Invertebrates 2O 

Comparative Anatomy ^;C; 

Invertebrate Fossils, Paleozoic 21 

Invertebrate Fossils, Mesozoic 2] 

Invertebrate Fossils, Cenozoic 2 j 

Division of Botany : 

Fossil Plants •,.>} 

Recent Plants 21 

Division of Geology: 

Minerals J2 

Lithology and Physical Geology 22 

Metallurgy and Economic Geology 2'A 

D. — Review ot the administrative work of the year: 

1. Progress of general and incidental work •jr> 

(a) Library '25 

(6) Exchanges and distribution of duplicates 26 

(c) Publications j:; 

(d) Visitors 'A'<-1 

(e) Students and lectures :',J 

(/) Meetings of societies HI 

JX 



X TABLE OF CONTENTS, 

Pag& 
D — Review of the admiuistrative work of the year — Coutiaued. 

2. Current admiuistrative work: 

(a) Buildiijgs and labor; police and public comfort 38 

{h) Electric service 41 

(c) Cases and tixtures 42 

(d) Property aud supplies 42 

(e) Correspondence aud reports 44 

(/) Preparation of labels 44 

3. The work of the Museiuu preparators : 

(a) Taxidermists 44 

(b) Osteological preparator 47 

(c) Modelers 4-* 

(d) Photographer ■ 4- 

(e) Artist 4L) 

(/■) Preparator in the Deiiartment of Arts and ludustries 4'J 

4. Accessions to the Museum 41' 

Geographical Review of the accessions [,:> 

5. Co-operation of the Departments and Bureaus of the Government.. GU 

6. Report upon the participation of the Smithsouiau Institution in the 

New Orleans Exposition 70 

Part II. — Repokts of the Cukatoks. 
t 

Ethnology. Otis T. Mason 87 

American Aboriginal Pottery. William H. Holmes 97 

Archaeology. Charles Ran 101 

Foods and Textiles. Romyn Hitchcock 118 

Steam Transportation. J. Elfreth Watkins 119 

Materia Medica. H. G. Beyer, M. D., U.S.N 14:} 

Mammals. Frederick W. True 147 

Birds. Robert Ridgway 158 

Birds' Eggs. Capt. C. E. Bendire, U. S. A Itiii 

Reptiles aud Batrachiaus. H. C. Yarrow, M. D., U. S. A 165 

Fishes. Tarleton H. Beau 167 

MoUusks, including Ceuozoic Invertebrate Fossils. William H. Dall 173 

Insects. C. V. Riley 181 

Marine Invertebrates. Richard Rathbun 199 

Comparative Anatomy. Frederick W. True 209 

Invertebrate Fossils (Paleozoic). C. D. Walcott 215 

Invertebrate Fossils (Mesozoic). C.A.White 229 

Fossil Plants. Lester F. Ward , 231 

Recent Plants. Lester F. Ward 233 

Minerals. F. W. Clarke 237 

Lithology and Physical Geology. George P. Merrill .. 239 

Metallurgy and Economic Geology. Fred. P. Dewey 245 

Part III.— Reports upon Special Collections ln the National Museum and 
Papers Illustrative of the Collections. 

I. The Meteorite Collection ; a Catalogue of Meteorites represented Novem- 
ber 1, 13-J6. By F. W. Clarke 255 

II. The Geiu Collection. By George F. Kunz 267 

III. The Collectiou of Building aud Oriiameutal Stones; a Hand-book aud Cat- 

alogue. (With index.) By George P. Merrill 277 

IV. The Collection of Textiles; List of Fibers aud Fabrics. By Romyn Hitch- 

cock 649 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. XI 

Page. 
V. Preparation of Microscopical Mounts of Vegetable Textile Fibers. By 

Koniyu Hitchcock 057 

YI. How to Collect Mammal Skius for i'liijxsi.- of Stmly and for Mounting. 

By William T. Hornaday 059 

Pakt 1\'.— BiHi.iociK.vpiiY OF T]iE L'. S. IS'atioxal Musp:um. 

I. Publications of the Museum G7:5 

II. Papers by officers and other investigators whose writings are based di- 
rectly or indirectly on Museum material 674 

pAitT V. — List of Accessioxs to the Collections. 

List of accessions, aniingcd luimerically 70"J 

Index A. — Arrangi-d by locality 7<j.') 

Index B. — Arranged by departments 71'-^ 

Index C. — ArrangiMl liy name of sender 802 

General index to report 8io 



r»A.RT I. 



REPORT 



I TUX Till-; 



CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM 
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDLXU JUNE 30, I8KG. 



G. BliOWN GOODE, 

ASSISTANT SFCIIKTAIiY nl' TIIK SMITIISOXT A\ IXSTIl U 1 ION, IX CIIAKCK, OK 'IHK 

NATKJ \ A L M L'.SKC M . 



n. Miy. 170, pt. 2 1 



LIST OF ERRATA. 

Page 33, for "Berdell," read "Rerdell." 

Page 50, for " T. T. Lamb," read " T. F. Lamb." 

Page 56, for " H. M. Meling," read " H. M. Mailing." 

Page 60, for " Prof. I. II. Morrisou," read " Prof. J. H. Morrison." 

Page 108, for " J. U. Johnson," read " J. W. Johnson." 

Page 253, for " Rufus W. Deering," read "Romyn Hitchcock." 

Page 432, for " (halivcng," read " didJSaaig.^' 



REPOIIT UPON THE CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE UNITED STATKS 
NATIONAL MUSEUM DURING THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE ;}(!, 
1886. 



In tlie report now presented, which relates to the year ending witli 
June 30, 1886, it was my intention to have presented a general review 
of the history of the Museum, and of its several departments. The 
l)ublication of this historical sketch will, however, be reserved for pre- 
sentation at some future time. 

The name i^itional, Museum was used in the Smithsonian Eeports 
as early as 1808, though it was not until after the erection of the new 
building had been determined upon that this designation seems to have 
been actually adopted by Congress. It was without doubt the pur- 
pose of Congress, as early as 184:6, that a national museum should be 
established in Washington, and that it should be placed under the ad- 
ministrative direction of the Smithsonian Institution, then just organ- 
ized. Such was manifestly the intention of the act of incorporation 
passed in that year, by which it was provided that " all objects of art 
and of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, 
plants, and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging or here- 
after to belong to the United States, which may be in the city of Wash- 
ington," should be delivered to the Eegents of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, and, together with the new specimens obtained by exchange, 
donation, or otherwise, should be so arranged and classified as best to 
facilitate their examination and study.* 

It was not until 1858 that the actual custody of the "National Cabi- 
net" was assumed by the Kegents, and appropriations were made by 
Congress for its maintenance. During the twenty-three years which 
followed, the collections were greatly increased and were made the 
subjects of numerous important memoirs upon the natural history and 
ethnology of America. The public halls, with their arrangements for 
the exhibition of a portion of the collections, also received a due share 
of attention, and a reasonable amount of instruction and pleasure was 
afforded to visitors. The appropriations however were small, the space 
limited, and the staff so inadequate, that little could be done except to 
keep the collections in a good state of preservation. 

* An act to establish the Smithsonian Institution " for the increase and diffusion of 
knowledire among ukmi." (Approved August 10, 184G ; Revised Statutes, Title LXIII. 
sections r>r)79-5o94. ) See also Revised Statutes, section OoSG, and Statutes Forty- 
tifth Congress, third session, chap. 18:3, p. 894. 

3 



4 EEPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

The Exhibition of 1876 in Philadelphia was an event of great educa- 
tional importance to the people of the United States ; and not the least 
of its benefits were the lessons it taught as to the possibilities for good 
in public museums. The objects which were given to the United States 
for its National Museum, at the close of the Centennial, were of much 
intrinsic value, but were still more important, in that they led to the 
erection of a large building for the expansion of the museum itself. 

From 1876 to 1881 was a period of incubation. The museum embryo 
was developing, but it was within a shell of store-houses. From 1881 to 
1886, another period of five years, its growth has been rapid, though 
the organism is still in its infancy. These five years have been years 
of experiment, but it is hoped that it is now evident to the people and 
to Congress that the young museum is now ready to begin a promising 
progress toward maturity. 

Among the most important features of the work, up to the present 
time, certain definite stages of progress have been attained, among the 
most important of which mi'.y be mentioned : 

(1) An organization of the Museum staff has been effected — efficient 
for i)resent purposes and capable of expansion and extension as occa- 
sion may require. 

(2) Through the agency of this staif, the materials in the Museum, 
the accumulations of nearly half a century-, have been examined, classi- 
fied, and brought under control. 

(3) The collections have been more than doubled in extent. 

(4) A beginning has been niade toward the development of a thor- 
oughly labelled exhibition series, available for the instruction of the 
public. 

(5) A thorough study of the organizations and systems of classifica- 
tion in other museums throughout the world has been made, the results 
of which are beginning to appear in the work, of the Museum staff. A 
report upon the great museums of the world is in preparation and will 
soon be published. 

(6) Many new methods of installation have been d(*v'oloi)ed by experi- 
ments in the Museum, and in the expositions in Avhich the Museum has 
participated. These are finding favor, and are being adopted in many 
similar cstablisliments at homo and abroad, and will certainly add to 
the economy and suc(;e.ss of our own ailmiuistration, 

(7) Science has been forwarded by the i)ublication of many hundreds 
of papers describing the materials in the Museum, while the work of 
specialists in the [uurluctiou of these papers has greatly improved the 
significance and value of the collections. 

It is, 1 think, possible to show that Washington may readily bo made 
the seat of one of the greatest nuiseums in the world. It will perhaps 
be neither practicable nor desirable to gather together in Washington 
collections of ancient and mediaeval art, such as those which adorn the 
capitals of Europe; but a representative series of such objects will un- 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 5 

doubtedly j^row up, which shall tend to educate the public taste, aud to 
promote, so far as possible, the study of the elements of art aud the 
history of civilization, as well as to forward the growth of the arts of 
design. This having been accomplished, the attention of the jMuseum 
should bo directed mainly toward the exhibition of the geology aud 
natural history of America, and its natural resources, to the preserva- 
tion of memorials of its aboriginal inhabitants, and to the exposition 
of the arts and industries of America. 

lu referring to the industries of America it is not iutended to recom- 
mend that anything siuiilar to what is generally understood as an '' in- 
dustrial exhibition" should bo attempted. The element of competitive 
display should not be admitted, and no two objects of precisely similar 
import should ever be placed side by side. 

As early as 1851, the scope of the Museum was considered to be a 
question of great importance ; but even now it is perhaps too early to 
speak definitely in regard to the nature of its future development. The 
first Secretary of the Institution, Professor Henry, was opposed to the 
accumulation of extensive collections at the expense of the Smithsonian 
fund. lie did not underrate the importance of great collections, but, on 
the contrary, deemed it the duty of the Institution to point out the means 
by which they might be made, and to aid in this work by utilizing all 
opportunities for procuring specimens for distribution, by facilitating 
exchanges, and by assisting explorations. He considered the formation 
of a general collection, although beyond the means of the Institution at 
that time, an object which ought to engage the attention of Congress, 
and was firmly convince d that in accepting donations of specimens, 
preference should be given to those of importance for use in scientific 
research, the study of which was likely to produce new aud interesting 
results. Professor Baird, taking up the same administrative problem 
at a later period, and finding the conditions greatly changed, has 
forwarded enthusiastically the progress of the National Museum, sup. 
ported as it now is by direct grants of money from the general Gov- 
ernment. With the experience of these years it has become evident 
that the iS"ational Museum of the United States will of necessity have 
features peculiar to itself, developed in response to the peculiar needs 
of the people of this continent. It should be remembered that the na- 
tional collections of ♦every principal European nation are divided into 
several groups, each under separate administration, though often within 
the general control of some central authority. In Frauce, for instance, 
most of the museums are under the Ministry of Public Instruction, and 
in England, to a less extent, under the Department of Science and Art. 

In London, in Paris, in Berlin, and in Vienna the public collections 
are scattered through various parts of the city, in museums with dis- 
tinctive names, and independent in their organizations. Much of the 
work which should j)roperly be done by such museums is omitted, be- 
cause no one of them has seen fit to undertake it; while, on the other 



6 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

haml, much labor is duplicated, whicli is perhaps equally uufortunate, 
collections of simiUir scope and purpose beiiij? maintained in difitereut 
parts of the same city. One of the chief objections to such division of 
eflbrt is, that much of the value of large collections in any department is 
lost by failure to concentrate them where they may be studied and com- 
pared side by side. In Washington the national collections are all, 
without exception, concentrated in one group of buildings. The Army 
Medical Museum will soon occui)y a building side by side with those 
under the control of the Smithsonian Institution, and this proximity', 
in connection with the long-established policy of co-operation between 
the two organizations, will cause them to be, for all practical purposes, 
united in interest. 

It is possible that, in the future, museums of specialties, occupying 
buildings of their own, may grow up under the control of other Execu- 
tive Departments of the Government, but it is to be hoped that they 
will not be very remote from the chain of museum buildings already 
in process of formation, and that a harmonious system of co-operation 
will always be found to be i^racticable. 

Tbe National Museum is now approaching an important crisis in its 
history. Its future will depend upon the action of Congress in granting 
it an additional building, for without more room its growth can not 
but be in large degree arrested. From this time forward it will be im- 
possible to develop the collections satisfactorily without additional 
space. The laboratories and workshops are already entirely inadequate 
for the storage of the unexhibited collections and the accommodation 
of the preparators and mechanics, and the exhibition halls do not aiibrd 
suitable opi)oitunity for the display of the materials already in order 
for public examination. Each collection, and above all each depart- 
ment, should have a hall of its own, more or less completely isolated 
from those which adjoin it. .It is evident that when several collections 
are placed side by side in the same department, much is lost in respect 
to effect and convenience of study, not' to mention the still greater dis- 
advantage of overcrowded space. 

A.— THE MUSEUM STAFF. 

Several changes have been made iu the arrangewient of the scientific 
staff during the year. The collection of Cenozoic Fossils is now in the 
custody of the Curator of Moliusks, the l^epartment of Invertebrate 
PaUeontology having been divided into three groups, corresponding to 
the three principal i)eriods of geologic time, Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and 
Cenozoic. Mr. John B. Smith was appointed Assistant Curator of the 
Department of Insects on August 1, 1885. Mr. Komyn Hitchcock, 
Curator in the Department of Arts and Industries, was granted leave 
of absence for two years to visit Japan for scientific exploration, and, 
having received from the Japanese Government an appointment as 



liilPOJJT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 7 

Profe.ssor in tlie LTaivcrsity of Osaka, departed ou bis '.uifjsiou in July, 
1S80. 

Mr. W. V. Cox was designated Cliief Clerk in Deeeniber, 1885. Mr. 
]i. 1, Geare has been placed in charge of Correspondence and Eeports; 
and Mr. A. Howard Clark is Assistant in charge of Pnblications, Sta- 
tionery, and Labels. Mr. S. C. Brown, as Kegistrar, has charge of 
Transportation, Kegistry, and Storage. Mr. John Mnrdocb bas been 
designated Assistant Librarian. 

By the death, March 19, 188G, of Mr. James Teinpleninn Brown, the 
Museum suffered the loss of an eutbusiastic worker, who had rendered 
efficient service in the development of tbe Museum. Mr. Brown bad 
made an exhaustive study of tbe wbale fisberies of tbe world, and tbe 
collection formed by him to illustrate tbe bistory of tlie Xew Englaiul 
whale fisbery, will always be a prominent feature in the fisheries court. 

Tbe Museum staff, as now organized, consists of two classes — tbe 
scientific officers or curators, and tbe administrative officers. 

There are at present 28 cnratorsbips, some of which are divided, so 
that the number of beads of departments or sub-departments is L'O, 
and tbe totiil number of men in tbe scientific stntt" 30, of whom 13 are in 
the pay of the Museum, and tbe others are honorary (or unpaid), some 
being detailed for tbis duty by tbe Director of tbe Geological Survey, 
by tbe Director of the Bureau of Etbnologj^, otbers by the Commis- 
sioner of Fisb and Fisheries, and by the Secretary of the Navy, while 
two are volunteers. Tbese details are in every instance made in the 
interests of co-operation by those Bureaus of tbe. Government engaged 
in work closely connected witb that of tbe Museum. The paleontol- 
ogists of tbe G^eological Survey bave found it to be so mucb to their 
advantage to bave access to tbe paleontological collections of the ]Mu- 
seum and tbe use of tbe laboratories, storage cases, and general ad- 
ministrative appliances of the Museum, that they are permitted by 
tbe Director to assume the responsibibties of curatorships and perform 
a general work of supervision. It is intended, however, that tbe Museum 
shall provide paid assistants, to relieve tbe bonorary curators of most 
of tbe routine work of tbeir departments. 

B.— THE CONDITION OF THE COLLECTIONS. 

Tbe reports of tbe curators indicate tbat tbe collections under tbeir 
charge are in an excellent state of preservation. 

Tbe perishable objects, su(5b as skins of birds and mammals, tbe in- 
sects, certain ethnological materials, and tbe objects preserved in spirits, 
bave in most cases been provided witb improved case accommodations, 
and a decided advance bas been made in tbe methods of preventing in- 
sect ravages. 

During tbe year tbe collection of aboriginal American pottery in the 
nortbwest court bas been opened to the public, and a series of casts of 



8 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

reptiles has been placed on exliibitiou in the west range of the Smith- 
sonian building. Almost the entire lower liall in the Smithsonian build- 
ing has been devoted to the bird collection, though the Department of 
MoUusks still retains some of its specimens in the table cases between 
the bird cases in the alcoves. A small series of insects* has been in- 
stalled in the southeast court of the Museum building, and the osteol- 
ogical collection has been largely' extended. The collections actjuired 
by the Museum at the close of the Xew Orleans Exposition have been 
received and assigned. 

In connection with the administration of the collections, three hundred 
and twenty-two papers t have been i)ublished, of which a tabulated 
statement, by subjects, is given under the heading of "Publications." 

In the report for 1884, when the last census of the collections was 
reported, the number of specimens in the Museum was estimated at 
1,471,000. During the last eighteen months^ the increase has been, as 
shown by the following table, 949,934 specimens : 

CENSUS OF THE COLLECTIONS. 

Estimaled numher of specimens iri the several departments of the Museum, June 30, 1886. 

Department of Arts and Industries : No. of speximens. 

Materia Medica 4, 850 

Textile Industries $ :5,064 

Fisheries 9,870 

Animal products 2, 792 

Foodst 8-22 

Historical relics 1,002 

Paints and dyes t 77 

The Catlin Gallery oOO 

Physical apparatus 250 

Oils and gums t 197 

Chemical productst 059 

Musical instruments 400 

Modern pottery 2, 278 

Coins and medals, paper money, etc 1, 055 

IL (o) Department of Ethnology $500,000 

II. (6) Department of Preliistoric American Pottery 25, 000 

II r. Deparment of Prehistoric Anthropology : 05,314 

IV. Department of Mammals (skins and alcoholic specimens) 7, 451 

V. Department of Birds .55,945 

V. (5) Department of Birds' Eggs 44,163 

VI. Department of Reptiles and Batrachians 25,344 

VII. Department of Fishes 75,000 

IX. Department of MoUusks (including Cenozoic fossils) 4ti0, 00'> 

X. Department of Insects 500,000 

* Perhaps one-fourth of the material on exhibition formed the exhibit prepared for 
the New Orleans Exposition. 

t Ninety-five of these papers \vi;re [>rei)ared by investigators not officially connected 
with the Museum. 

t January, 18S5, to July, 1886. 

^ Estimated. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 9 

Xo. of ai)eciiiiena. 

XI. Do})urtiiiciit of Mjirino lu vertebrates *:}rjO, 000 

XII. Depart ineiil orCoinpurativo Anatomy 10.210 

Skelt'.tons 1,^87 

Skulls 0,5S1 

Antlers 89 

Casts of Lraius 34 

Birds' sterna 1,519 

XII. (a) Departmeutof Invertebrate Fossils (Palezoic) 80,482 

XIII. (b) Department of Invertebrate Fossils (Mesozoic) 69,742 

JXV. Department of Fossil Plants 7,429 

XV. Department of Recent Plants t:U),(K)0 

XVI. Department of Minerals IH, 401 

XVII. Department of Litholoi^y and Physical Geology 20, G47 

XVIII. Department of Metallnrgy and Economic Geology 48, 000 

Total 2,420,944 

• 

There have been uo important changes in the assigmuent of exhibition 
space since the last report was prepared. In the hall devoted to the 
disi)Uiy of the materia medica collection, a portion of the collection of 
food substances has been arranged, and in a corner of the north hall are 
exhibited a few of the objects collected for the section of steam trans- 
portation. A few ca.ses in the north hall have also been filled with 
coins and medals. The east end of the northeast balcony in the Smith- 
sonian buildius: has been occupied by the department of Ethnology 
iu arranging the collection of weapons. There are still several depart- 
ments to which no exhibition space whatever has been assigned, on 
account of lack of room, and the only remedy is a new additional build- 
ing. A great mass of material is at present stored in the Armory Build- 
ing, and must remain there until Congress has provided more spacious 
accommodations for the collections. 

CATALOGUE ENTRIES. 

The number of entries made during the year in the Museum regis- 
ters of the several departments is 52,115, are indicated in the following 
table : 

Arts and Indnstries: 

Materia Medica 409 

Textiles 024 

Foods 274 

Historical Relics, Coins and Medals, and Modern Pottery 1,507 

Paints and Dyes 41 

Oils and Gums 112 

Cliemical Produels 1^8 

Fisheries and Animal Products 22() 

:5,2:?i 

Ethnology 1,344 

American Prehistoric Pottery '.\,2'X> 

Archuiology <'47 

Mammals 407 

Birds 4,147 

* Duplicates not included. t Exclusive of Professor Ward's collection. 



10 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Birds' Eggs 2o.i 

Reptiles iiud Batrachians 411 

Fishes t)02 

Mollusks (iuchulinfi Cenozoic lQveitel)iate Fossils). The total munber of en- 
tries is made up I'roiu uiiieleeii diiliireut series) 18, fi3.S 

Insects I,4ii0 

Marine Invertebrates (excepting Mollusks) : 

Crustaceans 1,4<S:3 

Worms '2;i8 

Tunicates and Bryozoa ; '-i84 

Radiates ^,741 

Sponges and Protozoa 1- '-^26 

7, 074 



Comparative Anatomy: 

Mammals 407 

Birds yrt^ 

Fishes l->7 

Reptiles and Batrachians l* 

1,017 

• 

Invertebrate Fosgils — Paleozoic 610 

Invertebrate Fossils — Mesozoic 1,563 

Fossil Plants 1;"> 

Recent Plants _40 

Minerals "'"-^ 

Lithology and Physical Geology. 1,021 

Metallurgy and Economic Geology f>,506 

52, 116 

C— REVIEW OF THE YEAR'S WORK IN THE SCIENTIFIC 

DEPARTMENTS. 

DIVISION OF ANTHROPOLOGY. 

DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND INDUSTRIKS. 

The collection of textiles is installed in the northeast court of the 
Museum, and is provided with printed labels and illustrative diagrams: 
it includes a very full series of the aniuud and vegetable fibers of the 
world, together with devices for spinning and weaving, and the various 
products of the textile industries. 

Much of the material intended for exhibition can not be installed in 
the now limited space available, and is stored away in boxes until in- 
creased space will warrant its display. 

A few cases containing food specimens are on exhibition, and the 
composition of the human body is graphically illustrated, together with 
its daily expenditure of tissues, and the manner in which this is com- 
pensated for by daily rations of food. This collection is exhibited upon 
the ])lan of the famous collection of similar character prepared by Br. 
Lankestcr and others for the Bethnal Green Museum in London. It is, 
however, based upon an entirely new series of analyses and a revised 
plan prepared by Prof. W. O. Atwater, of Wesleyan Qniversity. 

The section of materia medica is under the charge of Dr. U. G. Beyer, 
U. S. Navy, who has been detailed for this work by the Surgeon-Gen- 



REPORT OP ASSISTANT SECliETARY. 11 

oral of the N^avv, iiiuk'i' wlio.so supei'\isioii the collection has been in- 
stalled. Its increase daring- the year has been greater than daring any 
jirevious year except the tirst, when the nucleas of the collection was 
formed from the collections received from different national departments 
at the Centennial Exhibition, and by the gifts of W. IF. SchiefUin & Co., 
of New York, which were remarkable for their interest and value. 

Among the most important accessions received during the year, were 
those presented by the Governments of Jamaica, Japan, and Mexico; 
the collection of Dr. Edward J'almer, from the States and Territories of 
the Southwest; and the gifts of F. Stearns & Co., of Detroit, Mich., 
aud W. S. Thompson, of Washington, D. C. The curator has devoted 
much time to completing his arrangement of the collection, and has car- 
ried on several im])ortant investigations on the physiological action of 
drugs. Seven original papers embodying the results of his investi- 
gations have been i^ublished and are given in the bibliography, and two 
more are in i)ress; others are in progress. The exhibition series now 
contains 3,32G specimens, and nearly half of these are ]>rovided with 
printed labels. The whole collection now inchnlcs 4,850 specimens, and 
409 entries have been added to the catalogue during the year. A de- 
scriptive catalogue is now in preparation. 

There has been a constant improvement in the condition of the fish- 
eries collection, which, since its inauguration in the east north range in 
1884, has been undei' the curatorship of Mr. II. E. Earll. The nucleus for 
this collection was obtained from the Philadelphia Exhibition in 187G. 
The fisheries of Xorth America are now so thoronghly represented that 
there can be but little necessity for extending this portion of the de- 
partment, except by keeping it abreast of the time, b}^ exhibiting mod- 
ern improvements in apparatus, and the building up of certain special 
subjects rather of local importance, such as the Chinese fisheries of 
the Pacific coa«t. lin[)ortant contributions have been received from 
the Government of Siani through Minister Baldeman, from the Gov- 
ernment of Japan, and the collections from Great Britain, Sweden, 
Spain, France, Holland, and Greece, acquired at the close of the Lon- 
don Exhibition, in 1883, have been incorporated in the exiiibition series. 
The necessity of more exhibition space is very apparent. The fish- 
cultural objects are almost entirely crowded out, and many of the objects 
are now hung against the wall at such a height as to render them, 
and the labels attached to them, at least partially invisible. 

The collection of animal products is also under ]\Ir. l']arll's charge. 
The nucleus of this collection was obtained at the Philadt'li)hia Exhibi- 
tion in 187G, and was greatly extended by the addition of material ])re- 
sented from the New Orleans Exposition. There are now on exhibition 
nearly 1,000 specimens, illustrating the applications of the products of 
the animal kingdom in the arts and industries. 

In the north hall of the Museum are displayed several hundred ob- 
jects relating to the history of soldiers and statesmen, and a large uum- 



12 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

ber of relics of important events. Here are the Wasliiugtou relics, 
transferred in 1883 from the Patent Office, and which include much 
that is interesting in connection with the domestic and field life of 
Washington. Among other relics may be mentioned the gifts of for- 
eign Governments to President Jetfersou, Commodore Perrj-, General 
Ripley, General Grant, and others ; as well as memorials of many of the 
Arctic expeditions sent out by the United States and English Gov- 
ernments during the last forty years, including those in charge of Sir 
John Franklin, McClintock, Kane, Hall, and De Long. During the 
year a large number of objects illustrating the history of the Southern 
Confederacy have been contributed; and it is hoped that the collec- 
tions to illustrate the participation of the North in the war of the Ee- 
bellion may be similarly increased. 

The arrangement of a collection of coins and medals has been begun, 
and about 2,000 specimens have already been placed on exhibition. A 
series of medals illustrating the history of the United States, including 
bronze copies in duplicate of all the medals that have been struck at 
the Mint since its organization, has been deposited in the Museum by 
the Director of the Mint. The coin series is increasing, and progress 
has been made in classifying and labelling about 2,000 specimens of 
ancient Greek and Koraan coins recently presented to the Museum, and 
of the numerous foreign medals at various times presented to the 
Smithsonian Institution. 

A section devoted to the history of transportation was organized un- 
der the supervision of Mr. J. E. Watkins in 1885. The exhibit, which 
is at present small, includes the engine "John Bull" imported from 
England in 1833 for the Pennsylvania Eailroad Company, and some 
objects illustrating the beginnings of the American railroad system. 
The report of Mr. Watkins presented in Part II, contains an exhaustive 
plan in connection with the development of this section, and it is hoped 
that it may be practicable to carry it out. 

A collection of some two hundred and fifty scientific instruments, 
consisting for the most part of apparatus used by Priestley, Henry, and 
Hare, is temporarily exhibited in the north hall, as well as the original 
Morse telegraph instrument deposited by Stephen Vail. 

There are included in this department a great nuiny other collections 
which at present have no organized supervision, and to which additions 
are not at present specially sough t for several reasons. Among these are 
the collections of musical instruments, modern pottery, and porcelain, 
lacquer, and the various processes used in the reproductive industries. 
It is expected that the lithographic and allied exhibits will be shortly 
developed. 

Four large and valuable tapestries, depicting scenes in the life of 
Alexander the Great, and executed by Jan Leyniers, a celebrated Flem- 
ish weaver who was born in 1027 and died in 108G, have been deposited 
by General P. H. Sheridan. 



KEPOET OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 13 

BEPAIITMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 

Prof, Otis T. Mason, curator of Ethnology, has been constantly en- 
gaged in the preliminary classificatiou of the immense collections of 
material under his charge, with special reference to their liual installa- 
tion, devoting his attention chiefly to certain classes of objects, such as 
weapons of war and the chase, implements of agriculture, and other 
primitive industries. In addition to these great series classified ac- 
cording to function, other groups of objects have been arranged with 
reference to ethnical considerations. 

In the classification of the numerous groups of objects in tliis de- 
partment, such as basket work, throwing-sticks, sinew-back bows, arch- 
eiy, trausportatiou, and the several handicrafts of the various trd)es of 
Indians, an efibrt is being made to introduce the strict methods of classi- 
fication and nomenclature which are already applied in the other depart- 
ments of natural science. 

The Eskimo collection has been arranged in table cases in one of the 
exhibition halls in accordance with the ethnic idea, although in the minor 
details of classification function and form as well as geographical dis- 
tribution have been followed. 

In November, 1885, Lieut. T. Dix Bolles, U. S. Navy, having been 
detailed for service in the National Museum by the Secretary of the 
Navy, was assigned to duty in this department. 

The number of specimens in this department is estimated by the 
curator at 500,000. During the year 1,341 entries were made in the 
catalogues. 

The interest of this department is constantly increasing under its 
present energetic management, and its value to visitors has been greatly 
enhanced by the extension of tlio system of descriptive labels. 

SECTION OF AI50I1IGINAL AMEIMCAN POTTERY. 

The accessions to this section during the i)ast year hav^e been numer- 
ous and very important, especially those received from the Bureau of Eth- 
nology. The material belonging to this department, together with the 
collections of South American aboriginal i)ottery, and of the extensive 
collections from the mounds, which have for many years been accumu- 
lating in the archaiological hall of the Smithsonian building, and have 
now been transferred to the custody of this department, have com- 
pletely filled the northwest court. 

A special featuie of this exhibition hall is the case, -00 feet long and 
4 feet 8 inches deep. This is in two compartments throughout, that in 
the rear being used for the storage of the duplicate and unassorted col- 
lection of American [tottery. 

The value of these collections is ])ractically inestimable, since even 
the modern tribes, who are still making i)otter3' similar in its general 
ivharacter to that which is here preserved, have deteriorated to such a 



14 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

degree in their artistic capacity or skill, that their products are not 
therefore an exponent of their original artistic capabilities. So exhaust- 
ive and monographic is this collection that any thorough study of Ameri- 
can aboriginal pottery must of necessity in great part be based upon 
this collection. 

In addition to his administrative work, Mr. Holmes, the curator, has 
been engaged in the preparation of a monograph of a number of collec- 
tions from the Province of Chiriqui, in Colombia, and in investigating 
the influence of textile decoration upon the ornamentation of pottery. 

The collections made under the direction of the Bureau of Ethnology 
in the Mississippi Valley by Dr. Cyrus Thomas are deserving of special 
mention, as well as those of Col. James Stevenson and Mr. E. W. Nel- 
son in the Pueblo country of the Southwest. 

The number of si)ecimens in the collection is estimated at 25,000, and 
during the year 3,234 entries were made in the catalogues. 

DEPARTMENT OF PREHISTORIC ANTHROPOLOGY. 

The system of classification in this department is (1) by material, all 
objects of stone being j^laced together, as also of copper, shell, horn, 
clay, bone, and wood ; (2) by form and function, thus, stone pestles, 
arrow-heads, knives etc., are placed together; (3) by development, in 
order to show the gradual i^rogression from the crudest to the most 
perfect form. 

The total number of accessions has been 2,751, and the more impor- 
tant of these are treated of on a geographical basis in the report on this 
department. 

The reserve scries includes more than 40,000 specimens. 

In addition to the general collection, there is a special or " local " 
collection, in which sets of objects obtained from separate localities, such 
as a single grave, mound, or village site, are installed together. 

During the year one hundred and nineteen of these special collec- 
tions have been placed on exhibition. This form of special collection 
is becoming of great importance in the department. 

Through the co-operation of the Bureau of Ethnology a large amount 
of valuable material has been obtained from West Virginia, Alabama, 
Mississippi, Ohio, Illinois, Tennessee, Wisconsin, and Arkansas. 

Dr. Eau is engaged upon the preparation of an illustrated work on 
North American prehistoric relics, which is designed to serve as a guide 
for visitors to the department, and as an exphtiiation of the terminology 
of North American archaeology. This will bear the title "A Classifica- 
tion of the North American Pre-historic Kelics in the U, S. National 
JNIuseum." 

No less than 3,GG7 specimens have been added to the exhibition and 
study scries during the year, making a total of 40,281 specimens in this 
series. The duplicate collection numbers nearly 9,000 specimens. Dur- 
ing the year 647 catalogue entries were made. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 15 

DIVISION OF ZOOLOGY. 

DEPAKTMEXT OK JIAMMALS. 

The administrative work of the department has been directed mainly 
ti> the preparation for an entire re anan^oniont of the exliibition series. 
Twenty new specimens have been i)laced on exhibition during the year. 
There have been made 407 entries in the catah)gae of tlie department, 
the majority' of the accessions having been received from the Central 
Park Menagerie, in New York City, the Zoological Gardens at Phila- 
delphia, and Barnum's Menagerie. 

The entire collection, with the exception of the shrew-mole (Sorlcidcv), 
has been studied and identified, and a card catalogue of the skins and 
alcoholic specimens, which now amount to 7,451, has been completed. 
A report was prepared during the year upon the mammals collected by 
E. W. Nelson and C. L. McKay in Alaska. Mr. F. W. True, curator, baa 
in i)rogress extensive investigations on American cetaceans, and is at 
l)resent engaged upon a revision of the dolphins. During the year Mr. 
True visited various points on the coast of Korth Carolina, to study the 
dolphin and porpoise fisheries. lie has continued his studies upon the 
toothed whales, and in connection with the comparison of skulls of the 
American species of lynx discovered cranial differences between I/ynx 
canadensis and Lynx rvfus. lie has also made a new study of the kan- 
garoo rats. 

In the spring of 1886 Mr. William T. llornaday, chief taxidermist, 
was sent by the Smithsonian Institution to Montana for tlie i)urpose of 
obtaining skins and skeletons of buffalo, now on the verge of extinction. 

I DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 

An important part of the administrative work of this department has 
been the extension of the collections by means of exchange. Two thou- 
sand five hundred and eighty-one specimens have been sent out through 
exchange, and a full equivalent has been received. Altogether 4,147 
specimens have been added to the collection during the year, the largest 
contribution having been made by the Fish Commission steamer Alba- 
tross^ in the Bahamas, consisting of 1,000 specimens and about 75 sx)ecies, 
5 of which were new to science. Exchanges have been completed with 
the Mus6e d'llistoire Katurelle, in Paris, representing 86 specimens, 79 
species, from Madagascar and Cochin China ; with the British Museum, 
1^35 specimens, 170 species, from India and Europe; with the Mexican 
Geographical Exploring Expedition, 135 specimens, 75 species; and with 
Count Ilans von Berlepsch, of Miinden, Germany, 60 specimens, 50 
species, of iSouth American birds. 

More than half of the mounted collection has been transferred to ex- 
hibition stands of the improved standard recently adopted. The final 
labelling of the exhibition series has been deferred by delays at the 
Government Printing Ollice, and advantage has been taken of the delay 
to revise the labels in order that they may accord with the order of 



16 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

classification adoi)ted by the Americau Ornithologists' Uuion, which is 
described in the report of the curator, Mr. liidgway. 

Many important groups have been received for special critical revis- 
ion, notably the various Procellarian genera JEstrelata and Fuffinus, 
and Ihii gaiwra CoUinus, Lariis,Lagopus, und J^mpidonax. Dr. Stejue- 
ger has contiiuied his revisions of Japanese ornithology. 

An important research completed during the year was that upon the 
birds of Mexico, made by Professor Ferrari-Perez, of the Geographical 
Exploring Exjiedition of Mexico, who brought to Washington for the 
purpose the entire collection of birds in the "National Museum of Mexico. 
Professor Ferrari-Perez's report was based upon the studies of the two 
national collections, and has been published in the I'roceedings of the 
^National Museum.* 

There are now 55,945 specimens in the collection, of whicli 7,000 have 
been set apart for exhibition. The exhibition series might advantage- 
ously be made to include 15,000 specimens if space permitted 

SECTION OP birds' EGGS. 

Much has been accomi)lished during the year by Capt. C. E. Bendire, 
U. S. Army, honorary curator, in the classification and arrangement of 
the collection of eggs and nests. The collection includes about 44,000 
specimens, of which 1,491 are on exhibition, 31,124 are in the reserve 
series, and 11,548 are duplicate. More than 2,550 additions, in 253 lots, 
have been made during the year. It is to be hoped that before long 
it maj' be possible to give more space to this crowded collection. Cap- 
tain Bendire has, as heretofore, made generous contributions from his 
private collection. 

DEPARTMENT OF REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS. 

The collections in this department are very Inadequately provided 
with space, either for reserve or exhibition purposes. The collection, 
still under the honorary curatorship of Dr. II. 0. Yarrow, U. S. Army, 
includes about 25,350 specimens, which ici)resent nearly every si)ecies 
of North Americau reptiles and batrachians. 

Prof. E. D. Cope has in preparation, under tlie direction of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, a report on the reptiles of North America, and has 
made a large number of identifications and descriptions. He has also 
completed his report on the Batrachia of North America, and identified 
all the undetermined batrachians in the collection. 

During the year 444 entries, including 1,705 specimen.s, were made 
in the catalogue of the department. 

DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 

The curator, Dr. T. II. Bean, has re-examined the entire collection, now 
including some 75,000 specimens. No less than twenty-five barrels of 
alcohol wore used in retillingthe bottles and repla<5ing the old alcohol. 

• Vol. IX, pp. ]2r)-i'J0. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 17 

Nearly lo,000 specimens have been set aside for arrangement into sets 
for distribution ami exchaui^e. Durin;^ the year, G()2 entries have been 
made in tlie catalogue, bringing the total number of entries up to 37,- 
81)3. 

Much of the curat(u-'s time has been consumed by his work as editor 
of the Proceedings and IJulletins, and during the year bulletins 23, 28, 
21), 30, and 31, were sent to press under his editorial supervision. 

The customary amount of special research has been carried on, and 
several reports upon special collections have been made. Considerable 
time has been devoted by Dr. Bean and myself to the preparation of 
a report upon the extensive deei)-sea collections of the U. S. Fish Com. 
mission, and those obtained b}' Mr. Alexander Agassiz in connection 
with the work of the U. S. Coast Survey. 

The work of this department was, during the months of August and 
Septend)er, 1SS5, transferred to the Fish Commission headquarters at 
Wood's IIoll, where all of the deep-sea collections were concentrated, 
overliauled, classified, and catalogued, and a considerable amount of 
systematic investigation carried on, a portion of the results of which 
have already been made public, and tlie remainder, it is hoped, will soon 
appear in a monograph of the deep-sea fish fauna of the Eastern At- 
lantic, now for some years in preparation. 

The ease with which this extensive collection was handled in the large 
rooms which were available for the purpose at Wood's Holl, offers an 
illustration of the great need for the better accommodation of the fish 
collection in Washington. Work was finished in a few weeks at Wood's 
IIoll which would have occupied four or five months in the cramped 
work-rooms in the Museum. 

DEI'AUTMENT OF MOLLUSKS (IXCLUDIXG CENOZOIC IXVPIRTEBRATE FOSSILS). 

Under the curatorship of Mr. W. H. Dall, the department of mollusks 
has made extensive progress during the year, especially in tiie matter 
of cataloguing and arranging material which has accumulated in past 
years. The number of catalogue entries was 18,G38, representing be- 
tween fifty and sixty thousand si.ecimens. Only about four times as 
many entries had been made during the preceding twenty years. 

The classiti(4ation and systematic arrangement of accessions received 
in previous years, esi)ecially the Jeffries and Stearns collections, have 
received special attention. 

Among the named species received, which were found to be of more 
than ordinary interest, were 71 from Bering Sea, a small series of land 
and fresh-water shells from Manitoba, and a very fine series of ^lada- 
gascar land shells. As in previous years, the U. S. Fish Commission 
made by far the most important contributions to the collection. 

A beginning has been made in public exhibition, by placing on view 
an experimental case containing the chief types of Cephalopods, pearls 
U. Mis. 170, pt. 2 2 



18 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

and pearl formations, cameo shells, and sections showing the internal 
structure of various large and ornamental species. A provisional dis- 
play of the principal economic mollusks of North America has also been 
made. Under the supervision of Dr. 11. E. C. Stearns, adjunct curator, 
an exhibit of the edible mollusks from the Atlantic and Pacific, of or- 
namental species from tropical seas, and of land and fresh-water spe- 
cies, has been installed. There is no room at present for the exliibition 
of the general collection. 

The work of the curator and his assistants has consisted chiefly in 
the identification of specimens for teachers and others in various parts 
of the UHited States; the identification and classification of tbe recent 
or living mollusks of the Atlantic coast of North America, as well as 
those of the Antillean-Caribbean region ; and the arrangement of land, 
pond, and fluviatile gastropods, as well as the fresb-water Acephala, 
for the purposes of comparison and investigation in the matter of geo- 
graphical distribution and variation of species as related to and affected 
by environmental conditions. 

Among tlie most important investigations in progress is that of Mr. 
Ball upon the deep-sea mollusks and his studies upon the Quaternary 
molluscan fauna of the United States; and the continuation of pre- 
vious investigations by Dr. Stearns on the geographical distribution 
of the land and fresh- water mollusks of North America and the varia- 
tion of the same, as related to and affected by the physical characters of 
their environment. 

DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS. 

This department was organized three years ago, but little has hitherto 
been attempted beyond the preservation of the collections; Dr. C. V. 
Riley, the honorary curator, having been without an aid. An assistant 
curatorship, to which Mr. John B. Smith has been appointed, was estab- 
lished at the beginning of this year, and additional accommodations in 
the laboratory and exhibition hall have been provided, thus permitting 
an important extension of the study and exhibition series. 

In October Dr. C. V. Riley formally presented to the Museum his ex- 
tensive private collection of North American insects, containing over 
115,000 pinned specimens, representing over 20,000 species. This col- 
lection is the result of his labors in collecting and study for more than 
twenty-five years. 

It is estimated that there are now at least 500,000 specimens in the 
collection. 



REPOET OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



19 



The following table shows the estimated numbers of the pinned and 
mounted si^ecimens in the collection : 



Hymenoptera 

Coleoi)tera 

Lepidojitera ,. 

Diptera 

Ileiniptera 

Ortlioptera 

Nenroi)tera 

Araclin ida and Myriapoda 

I iKsoct architecture 

Miscellaneous (not yet arrauj;od) 
Galls and gall insects 

Total 



Boxes. 



(if) 
127 

21 
5i> 
64 
14 

2 
16 

28 

:5i 



766 



Specimens. 



24, 796 

4:},f)i:5 

17, 0'J.S 

.'J, 64(J 

8, 8(i2 

6,1)(« 

868 

42.^> 

1,080 

i,(;io 

4, V>2 



115, 05:3 



Species. 



2, 6.50 

(5, 558 

2, .'508 

699 

1,184 

5(i0 

169 

110 

178 

178 

7;i4 



15, 328 



In addition to these pinned specimens, the collection contains some 
nineteen large boxes of alcoholic material, chiefly of the adolescent 
states of insects, comprising some 2,850 vials, in many cases several 
species being contained in a single vial. The collection contains a large 
number of uudescribed species in all orders. 

The early states of the minuter insects are mounted in balsam on slides 
(I by 3 inches), of which the collection contains upward of 3,000, most 
of the slides holding the contents of three cover glasses. 

The mounted material is contained for the most part in double-folding 
boxes in book form, about 32 by 22 by 8 centimeters, lined on both sides 
with cork and paper. 

A certain proportion of the boxes are less than 7 centimeters wide., and 
are lined only on one side. There are also two cabinets, one with sixteen 
large, glass-covered drawers, and another (now at Dr. Riley's residence) 
of sixty glass covered drawers. The specimens are all duly classified 
and hibeled, and in excellent order and preservation. The labels in- 
clude notes as to locality and food habit, and are also in many cases 
numbered to correspond to detailed notes as to adolescent states and 
habits. 

The collection was begun twenty-five years ago, and represents Dr. 
Riley's continuous collectings since, including his own types and many of 
other authors received in exchange. It embraces few exotic species, and 
is more particularly rich in biological material, containing more blown 
and alcoholic larvae and pupje in connection with their imagos than per- 
haps any other collection of Korth American insects. Including the 
unarranged and alcoholic material not coniuN'ted with the pinned speci- 
mens, there are over 20,000 species in the collection. 

The curator has continued his work in re-arranging and perfecting 
difierent families in several orders, particularly among the micro lepi- 
doptera. 



20 REPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

V 

DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 

By far the largest part of the material received by this department 
was obtained by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross, while en- 
gaged in making extensive explorations along the entire eastern coast 
of North America from the Grand Bank of Newfoundland to southern 
Florida and the Bahamas. The results of this exploration were of great 
value, since a large part of the region visited had never been systemati- 
cally investigated before. Over two hundred and fifty successful hauls 
were made with the dredge and the trawl-net. Among important dona- 
tions from other sources were a fine series of deep-sea soundings from 
the Southern Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, made by the U. S. steamer 
Enterprise, and large collections from the western and northwestern 
coasts of America and Siberia. A most interesting series of microscopi- 
cal preparations of nearly two hundred species of British sponges, mainly 
described or identified by Dr. Bowerbank, was supplied by the Eev. A. 
M. Norman, a distinguished English naturalist. 

The collection of Echini, or Sea Urchins, has now been completely 
identified and arranged for reference and study. Of this group the 
Museum possesses 152 species, many of which are represented by ex- 
tensive series of specimens covering a wide range of distribution. 

The curator has continued his studies of tUe parasitic copei)oda of the 
Atlantic coast. He has also revised the collection of star-fishes, and 
thoroughly overhauled the species collected by the U. S. Fish Commis- 
sion on the Atlantic coast north of Cape Ilatteras. 

Work upon the collection of Ophiurans has been continued by the 
Hon. Theodore Ljnnan, who is at present engaged in studying the ma- 
terial obtained by the Albatross south of Cape Hatteras, and that from 
the western coast of North America, including Alaska. 

The number of catalogue entries during the year has been 7,074, a 
single entry often representing hundreds of specimens. The total num- 
ber of specimens at present in the collection is estimated at 350,000. 

DEPARTMENT OV COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. 

The development of the osteological collection has been the chief 
work undertaken by the acting curator, Mr. True. 

Mr. Lucas has rendered most efficient service in the development and 
arrangement of the collection. It has been the desire of the curator, 
to obtain a series of skeletons of thoroughbred domestic animahs and' 
several specimens representing the important breeds of dogs ha\e been 
obtained. 

The number of catalogue entries during the year, embracing birds, 
mammals, fishes, reptiles, and batrachians, was 1,017. The total num- 
ber of specimens in the collection is now 10,LJ10, A card catalogue of 
the skeletons of the mammals has been completed. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 21 

DEPARTMENT OF IN VEU IKIJIiATH FOSSILS (PuloOZOic). 

This ilepartmeut is uuder the charge of IVIr. C. 13. Walcott, of the U. 
S. Geolo<;ical Survey. The collection now inclndes over 80,000 speci- 
mens, of which perhaps one-third has been transferred by the U. S. 
Geological Survey to the Museum. During his connection with the 
Museum Mr. Walcott has thoroughly arranged this material. A very 
interesting series has been selected for exhibition, although up to the 
present time it has been impracticable to place any material upon view. 

The curator has been engaged in a special research, in behalf of the 
U. S. Geological Survey, upou the stratigraphy and i)aheontology of 
the Cambrian system of North America. 

Prior to the year 1884 the increase in the material of this depart- 
ment had been irregular, owing to the lack of time and means at the dis- 
posal of the curator; during that year, however, Mr. Walcott intro- 
duced a thorough system of classification, and began the formation of a 
systematic collection of Cambrian fossils. 

PEPARTMENT OF INVEUTEIJRATE FOSSILS (MrSOZoic). 

The principal accessions to the collection have been those received 
from the U. S. Geological Survey. The curator, Dr. C. A. White, re- 
ports that a total number of 1,503 entries were made in the catalogue 
during the year. Among the accessions of special interest was a col- 
lection of Cretaceous fossils from Mexico, aiul another of Lower Creta- 
ceous and Jurassic from France. The total number of specimens in the 
collection at present is 09,742. 

Steady progress has been made in the work of arrangement and 
classification ; and the collection is now accessible for purposes of study. 
The provisional arrangement which has been adopted, is })urely strati- 
graphical; though a broad biological classification nnder each geological 
period has been attempted. JVIr. J. B. Marcou has re-identified all the 
type specimens, and has published a catalogue of these in the Proceed- 
ings of the Museum.* 

DEPARTMENT OF INVEPvTEP.RATE FOSSILS (CoUOZOic.) 

Since the transfer of Mr. W. II. Dall from ihe Coast Survey to the 
U. S. Geological Survey, in which he is now serving as paheontologist 
in charge of the later formations, this department has been organirced. 
It is, however, really inseparable from the department of mollnsks, of 
which ]\Ir. Dall has long been curator. 

DIVISION OF I'.OTANY. 

DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL AND RECENT PLANTS. 

The attention of the curator of these two departments. Prof. Lester 
F. Ward, of tbe Geological Survey, has been directed chiefly toward 
the study of the fossil plants: his sketch of the history and present 

*rroc. U. S. Nat. Wii.s., viii, 18-:"), j))). 21)0-344. 



22 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

• 

conditiou of fossil botany, published in the Fifth Annual Report of the 
Director of the Geological Survey, gives an excellent idea of the char- 
acter of the work which he has undertaken to accomplish in connection 
with the National Museum collections. 

The work of classification and arrangement has progressed, and the 
herbarium of recent i)lants is now estimated at not less than 30,000 
specimens: while that of fossil plants includes 7,439 specimens. 

Dr. F. Y. Ilavard contributed large and valuable collections of plants 
from Texas and the adjacent States and Territories, containing the 
types of his report on the "Flora of Western and Southern Texas," pub- 
lished in the Proceedings of the National Museum.* 

A card catalogue of the Joad collection of plants from the Old World, 
recently acquired from the Royal Botanical Garden at Kew, has been 
completed. This collection contains over 10,000 species, 9,000 of which 
were new to the Museum. 

DIVISION OF GEOLOGY. , 

DEPARTMENT OF MINERALS. 

Uuder the direction of Trof. F. W. Clarke, the department of minerals 
is now making rapid progress. During the year exchanges have been 
carried on with i)rivate collectors and with a number of public mu- 
seums, among which may be mentioned the Ii)cole des Mines, at Paris; 
the Mus^e d'Annecy, in Savoy ; the University of Sydney, Australia ; 
and that of Amherst College. The total number of specimens received 
during the year was 800. 

Nearly 4,500 of the 18,401 specimens constituting the collection of the 
Museum, are now on exhibition. Esi)ecial attention has been devoted 
to the development of the collection of gems and ornamental stones. 

In connection with his official duties as chemist of the Geological 
Survey, the curator has been- enabled to accomplish nuicli scientific 
work upon the Museum collections. He has made a study of the min- 
erals received from Litchfield, Me., and the turquoise from New Mexico, 
and is at present investigating the chemical structure of the silicates 
and preparing a revision of the borates, and is also making a full series 
of analyses of tourmaline. 

DEPARTMENT OF LITUOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 

Although the increase of material in this department has not been 
very great, during the year the number of catalogue entries has been 
1,021. 

The exhibition series has increased, and all the available cases are 
now filled. IMuch attention has been devoted to the preparation of the 
exhibition series and accompanying labels and to the completion of the 
study series. 

*Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., viii, IS-ir,, ])p. 449-533. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARV. 23 

Ainon,u' the more importaut accessions luivc been several relief maps 
received from the Geological Survey, a collection of rocks and building 
stones from IMexico, a series of the rocks of Continental Europe, and a 
series of tyi)ical marbles and building stones from South Carolina, etc^ 

There are several groups of exhibition specimens in process of prepara- 
tion, among them being a strnctural series, a lithological series, and a 
series of building and ornamental stones. These are in part on exhibi- 
tion, though not iu their proper places in the systematic collection. 

The curator, Mr. Merrill, is engaged in investigations upon the min- 
eralogy of the District of Columbia, the origin and nature of fulgurites. 
and the darabilit3' of building stones, besides carrying on studies on 
local petrography; and has just completed a catalogue of the collection 
of building stones now iu the Museum. 

The total number of specimens iu the collection is estimated at 
20,047, of which 17,047 belong to the reserve series. Of the latter num- 
ber 5,313 are on exhibition, 2,730 being specimens of building and orna- 
Biental stones, and 1,820 belonging to the educational series of rocks 
and rock-forming minerals. There are, also, in the collection 3,400 
thin sections of rocks prepared for microscopic study. Of these nearly 
200 have been added during the year. 

DEl'AHTMKXT OF :\IETALLURGY ANH ECONOMIC GEOLOGY. 

Owing to the fact that so great a mass of material is already assignod 
this department, which is under the curatorship of Mr. F. P. Dewey, it 
has not been considered wise to solicit additional collections, although 
much has been received during the year. 

The special attention of the curator has been given to the arrange- 
ment and classification of the mass of material received from the Insti- 
tute of ]\Iining Engineers, i)art of which arrived during this year. 

The preparation of the exhibition series has been going steadily for- 
ward, and a portion has been i)laced on exhibition as a preliminary dis- 
play. The curator has commenced the preparation of a descri[)tive cata- 
logue of the systematic collections, to serve as a guide to visitors. 

For tlirt!»e years past the curator has been employed in an investiga- 
tion of the physical properties of coke, and has j)ublished a paper upon 
the porosity and specific gravity of different kinds of this material. 

Tiie total luimber of si)ecimens in the collection is estimated at 48,000, 
of which 17,000 are on exhibition. During the year 5,500 entries were 
made, iucbadiug 8,552 specimens. 



24 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

D.— REVIEW OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE WORK OF THE 

YEAR. 

It will be evident from what has already been said that marked 
progress has been made in the arrangement and identification of the 
material in the custody of the staff curators. At no time in the history 
of the Museum has classification and installation received so much 
attention. For the past five years the Museum staff has been overbur- 
dened with the i)reparatiou of exhibits for Berlin, London, New Orleans, 
Louisville, and Cincinnati, and although much valuable material, which 
would otherwise have been lost to the Museum, has been obtained, it is 
equally true that during those years the progress of the IMuseum work 
proper has been necessarily made subservient, and has been seriously 
impeded. 

Tlie reports of the curators indicate that better progress has been 
made in the development of the exhibition series in the past than in 
any previous year. The systematic arrangement of many of the collec- 
tions has been commenced, and although much yet remains to be done 
in the instalhitiou and labelling of specimens, the general appearance of 
the public halls is far more satisfactory than ever before. In the three 
geological departments this advance is especially mauifestj as well as 
in that of comparative aiuitomy. 

The Museum may well be congratulated upou this progress, for there is 
no reason to doubt that the systematic arrangement of all the collections 
will, during the next fiscal year, make still greater headway. 

The advance of the work has given an opportunity for much experi- 
ence in methods of installation and labelling, and the principles of ad- 
ministration which have been tentatively laid down in previous reports 
have been brought still further into experimental practice. It is still the 
belief of our administrators that there are certain cardinal principles 
which must be considered in the arrangement of collections in public 
museums. Each object should illustrate an idea, and no two objects 
should be sliown, which illustrate the same idea in a similar manner. 
Further than this, the idea to be illustrated should be explained o!i the 
label in such a manner that any intelligeni; visitor, without previous 
special knowledge of the subject, may be able to learn why the object 
is shown and what lesson it is intended to teach. The objects, also, 
should be so carefully classified that their relations to each other may 
be recognized by the visitor, so that, taken together, they suggest cer- 
tain general conclusions; and in arriving at them the visitor should be 
aided by certain general or collective labels, which should be supple- 
mented, where practicable, by guidebooks and manuals containing all 
the information ui)on the labels, arranged systematically and illustrated 
by engravings of the more important objects. 

The study series includes those specimens which are not placed upon 
exhibition, but are retained in the laboratories or stored in the unit tables 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 25 

in the exhibition halls. This series is kept for purposes of comparison 
and study, or as a basis for the preparation of monographic treatises. 
Numerous applications have been received for the loan of specimens in 
the Museum, constituting types of the species, and as on several occa- 
sions in i»revi()us years tyi)e specimens have been lost or otherwise de- 
stroyed whilst in the hands of the borrower, it has been found absolutely 
necessary to impose very strict limitations upon the sending away of 
type specimens. . Free access is allowed to specialists in the examina- 
tion of these specimens in the laboratories, but no type specimens are 
now sent to individuals. Formal applications by the authorities of other 
museums are always, when possible, favorably responded to. In this 
connection a circular (Xo. 35) has recently been issued. It reads: 

Type speeimens icill in future not he sent out of the National Museum 
for purposes of studi/, except to officers of scientific institutions or so- 
cieties who sJiall charge themselves with the responsibility of their safe- 
Iceepiny a)id return. 

This action on the part of the Museum is in no way intended to act 
as an obstacle to those engaged in scientific pursuits, but is a necessary 
step in order to insure the finding of any given types when desired for 
study. 

1. PROGRESS OF GENERAL AND INCIDENTAL WORK. 
Library. 

The work of the library has been carried on without any important 
changes from the methods employed in the i)revious year : it is, how- 
ever, becoming yearly more serviceable to the scientific staft' of the 
iVluuseum, as is shown by the fact that the number of books borrowed 
during the year is greater than ever before. 

The total number of books and i)amphlets received during the year 
was 2,424 (exclusive of regular periodicals). Of these, 1,372, or more 
than one-half, were books selected from the extensive accessions of the 
Smithsonian Institution to be retained at this library, while the rest 
were sent to the Library of Congress. 

As usual, the chief contributor has been Professor Spencer F. Baird, 
to whom the library is indebted for 37 volumes, 192 pamphlets, and 2 
maps. 

Another important gift was that of Mr. J. (J. Brevoort, of New York, 
which consisted of 1(5 volumes and 144 pamphlets, almost entirely on 
ichthyological subjects, and many of them of great value. Among 
other contributions the most important are those from Mr. Kobert 
Ridgway, TT. S. National Museum, 52 pamphlets; the Smithsonian 
Institution, 5 volumes, 25 pamphlets; the Koyal Swedish Academy of 
Sciences, 10 volumes, 20 pamphlets; and the U. S. Geological Survey, 
9 volumes and 2 i)amphlets. 

The periodical dei)artment of the library contains more or less com- 
plete sets of 570 periodicals, chiefly the proceedings of learned societies 



2G REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

and scientific serials. A systematic effort is beiui? made witli the co- 
operation of the Smithsonian Institution to fill uj) incomplete files and 
add new periodicals bj' means of exchange. 

A slight change has been made in the method of keeping the record 
of books lent and returned. The "ledger by borrowers" has been 
discontinued, and, in place of it, the receipts or " call-cards," signed by 
the borrowers, are carefully filed, thus serving to show what l)ooks each 
borrower has in his possession. On the return of a. book, the card is 
returned to the borrower, and the entry on the '^ ledger of books issued" 
is cancelled. This i^lan has been found more efficacious than the old 
system, since by substituting two entries for three, one possible source 
of error is eliminated. The number of books borrowed during the year 
was 3,8G7. 

The card catalogue, by authors, has been continued as in previous 
years. The total number of books catalogued during the year was 
2,923, of which 553 were volumes of more than one hundred pages, and 
the remainder pamphlets. 

The library is especially rich in scientific pamphlets, particularly 
authors' "extras" of their publications in scientific periodicals; audit 
is parti(;ularl3' important that this collection should be extended. 

The work of putting the pami)hlets into covers was begun in March; 
and at the end of the year, 1,700 pamphlets had been thus bound. 

The library is still in great need of money for the purchase of the 
latest editions of books of reference. Its most pressing necessity, how- 
ever, is more room for the large and constantly increasing number of 
periodicals. 

Exchanges and Distribution of Duplicates. 

The customary distribution of duplicate specimens has been continued 
during the year. The importance of this work was well character- 
ized by Professor Baird in his report to the Secretary of the Institution 
in 1801: " When it is considered that all these [specimens] have been 
named and labelled by naturalists admitted to be of the highest authority 
in their respective departments, and that all have thereby the character 
and value of types, many of them belonging to species first described 
from Smithsonian specimens, or serving as the materials of elaborate 
monographs, it will be readily understood how much their systematic 
and judicious distribution by the Institution all over the world must 
conduce to the advancement of science." 

The extent of the work is shown by the table here presented. Of the 
118 distributions included in the table, 41 were to foreign institutions 
and iudinduals. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



27 



Table showimj the nature of duplicate material (lislributed between July, 1885, aj/r? ,/«/(/, 

IddU. 



Objects. 


Species. 


Specimens. 


Fishes 


14 




26 


Pottorv 


G20 


Fossils .. ... 




42 


MoUnsks 


2U5 


7.')9 


Etlinolosjy 


1 , 4.''>:{ 


Arc'lui'.ologv 




241 


Miiu'i'jils 


:U8 

200 

01 


1, 802 


Marine invertebrtites, 32 sets 


18, 000 
200 


Miscellaneous 


riant s 


49 


Rocks 


145 
()1 
12 

7 


221 


Mammals 


98 


Casts of tiislies 


12 


Reptiles 


7 


Textiles 


3:n 








Total number of specimens 






23, 9S7 









The number of applications for drawings and photogTaplis of tlie 
standard styles of cases used in the Museum, which have been favorably 
acted upon during tlic year, has been 115. Iti addition, 57 sample cases 
aud drawers liave been lent to colleges and other institutions desirous 
of examining their construction, with a view to adopting similar forms 
in their own museums and laboratories. 

The Mexican Geographical and Exploring Commission, fi-om which 
were received valuable collections of birds and otliei^ natural history 
objects, requested to be supplied with a fidl scries of papers, working- 
drawings, etc., in connection witli tiie operations of the Musenm. In 
response to this request, a box was forwarded, containing thirteen cyano- 
types of working-drawings of Musenm cases, sixteen photographs of 
cases, a complete set of blanks and circulars used in the administration 
of the Museum, together with a set of Musenm circulars and plans of 
the Museum buihlings. The Smithsonian institution aud U. IS. Fish 
Commission also sent specimens of blanks and circulars. 

Tiie preparation of a set of casts of fishes and reptiles for the Ameri- 
can Museum of Xatural History, in jS^cw York, was commenced and 
partially completed during the year. 

In October, 18S5, the preparation of a duplicate collection of building- 
stones for the museum above referred to, was completed. This task 
was undertaken in continuation of an engagement entered into be- 
tween the American Museum of Natural Hisrory and the late Dr. George 
W. Hawes, while in charge of the collection of building-stones in the 
Museum and of the work of gathering material for tlie Tenth Census. 

Foreifpi exehanf/cs. — Exchanges have been made witli several foreign 
museums and institutions. Nine mammal skins have boeu received from 



28 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

the xVustraliau Museum, Sydney. An extensive exchange of ethnologi- 
cal material is being arranged with the ethnological department of the 
Royal Museum of Berlin. Negotiations for an exchange of mammals, 
birds and insects with the Musee d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris, are in 
progress. Thirty-five species of Jamaican fishes have been received 
from the Public Museum of the Institute of Jamaica. From the Cana- 
dian Geological Survey have been received G7 species of Cambrian fos- 
sils; and skeletons of Pj/f/iow mohirus and Gercojrithecus rufo-viridis, n 
specimen of Fenfacrimis and a set of marine invertebrates have been 
sent in exchange. M. Charpy,* director of the Musee d'Annecy, An- 
uecy, Ilaute-Savoie, France, has sent four boxes of minerals, rocks, fos- 
sils, and shells, etc., and an equivalent in Ohio and Cincinnafei Silurian 
fossils has been promised in exchange. The museum has sent to the 
Auckland Museum, New Zealand, large collections of ethnological ma- 
terial, bird-skins, ores, and minerals, and has received in exchange 104 
specimens of New Zealand bird-skins. An oifer of ethnologieal material 
has been made to Mr. S. H. Drew, of Wanganui, New Zealand, in ex- 
change for marine invertebrates, fresh-water shells and fossils. From 
the Iilcole des Mines, Paris, has been received a collection of Freach 
minerals, in exchange for which 71 specimens of United States minerals 
have been sent. Br. Julius von Haast, director of the Canterbury 
Museum, Christ Church, New Zealand, has sent 7 fine specinnens of 
nephrite, and has received a set of marine invertebrates. Dr. von Haast 
has promised to collect skeletons of whales and seals for the Nation.al 
Museum, and has offered a series of New Zealand timbers, for which 
ethnological material has been promised. Extensive exchanges have 
been conducted with several of the mutsees under the direction of the 
Ministere de I'Instruction Publique, Paris. Six boxes of ethnological 
material were sent in August, 1885, and a number of casts of Indian 
heads in March, 1880, to the Trocadero Museum. The Minister of Pub- 
lic Instruction has recently announced the transmission of 9 vases, from 
the Manufacture Nationale de Sevres, 8 pieces of tapestry from the 
Maiiufacture Nationale des Gobelins, an«l some specimens of tapestry 
work from the Manufacture Nationale de Beauvais. An exchange of 
birds, fishes, and shells is being arranged with the Imperial Zoological 
Museum of the Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg, Eussia. Negotia- 
tions are pending with Dr. F. K. Jcntink, director of the National Mu- 
seum of Natural History, Leiden, Holland, for an exchange of nuimmals 
from the East Indies and Africa, for American birds, reptiles, fishes, 
and marine invertebrates. Collections of mammal skins and skulls, 
materia medica, and reptiles have at various times been received from 
the Kurrachee Municipal Library and Museum (James A. Murray, cura- 
tor), in exchange for which 390t specimens of birds and 24 mammals 
have been sent. 

* Deceased. 

tTwo liuudied aud scventy-eigbt of theae were transmitted in 1881. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 29 

Bird skins liave been exciiann^ed with M. jMiliie Edwards,* of the 
Mnsee d'llistoire Xaturelle, Paris. 

Dr. T. JellVey Parker, Otago University jMuscum, J)unedin, ISIew 
Zealand, has otlered fishes, and desires American species in return. 
Nej^otiations are i)endin.i;- for an exchan,2:e of ethnological material with 
SignorL. Piyorini, director Museo Preistorico-Etnografico, Itome, Italy. 
A series of textile fabrics (manufactured and raw) has been sent to 
Count Ito, minister of the Imperial household department, Tokyo, Japan, 
for the Japanese Government. Four boxes of Japanese porcelains have 
been received from the Educational Department in Tokyo. An exchange 
of mammal skins has been effected with Prof. Tycho Tullberg, Upsala, 
Sweden, and an olfer of birds and marine invertebrates in return for 
similar material has been made by the National IMuseum. 

Seventeen mammal skins have been received from Dr. C. W. de Vis, 
director of the Queensland Museum, Brisbane, Australia. Specimens 
in exchange are being prepared for shii)ment. Dr. de Vis also offers a 
foetus and skeleton of dugong in exchange for a manatee. This ofler 
is now under consideration. Mr. L. Wray, jr., curator of the Perak 
Government Museum, Perak, Straits Settlements, has offered to present 
mammals, and to exchange tin-sand and wash-dirt from Perak tin-mines 
for mineralogical or geological specimens from the United States. 

Extensive exchanges have been arranged with Prof. Fernando Fer- 
rari Perez, of the Mexican Geographical and Exploring Expedition. 

PUBLICATIOXS. 

The eighth volume of the Proceedings has not yet aj)peared, although 
the last signature is dated December 7, 1SS5. A list of the signatures 
of this volume is given in Part iv of this report. 

During the year Bulletins 23, 28, 29 and 30 were issued, and are briefly 
reviewed here. 

Bulletin 2;5 forms Part ii of " Bibliographies of American Natural- 
ists," and is. entitled Puijlisiied Writings of Isaac Lea, ll. d., by 
Newton Pratt Scudder, 8vo., pp. lix + 278. The list of writings is pre- 
ceded by a biographical sketch. The bibli()grai)hy is arranged chrono- 
logically. A list of genera and species, discussed and described, is ar- 
ranged alphabetically ; in addition there is a general index. 

The collections of the National Museum were largely increased by 
gifts from Dr. Lea's collections, and his writings are based, in large 
part, upon this and other material belonging to the National Museum. 

Bulletin 28. A Manual of North American Land Shells, by 
W. G. Binney, 8vo., pp. 528. 

This bulletin is an enlarged edition of a work entitled "The land and 
Freshwater Shells of North America, Part i," published b}' the Smith- 

* Before completion of thi.s exchange M. Milue Edwards died, and the negotiations 
were continued with M. Oustalet. 



30 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

soiiinn Institution in 1SG9. More attention is given in the present work 
to tlic subjects of geograpliical distribution, organs of generation, lin- 
gual dentition, and classitication ; and species are grouped gepgrapli- 
ically. 

Bulletin _!!). "•Hesults of ORNrrnoLOGicAL Explorations in 
THE Co:\niANDER ISLANDS AND IN Kamtsciiatka," by Leouliard 
Stejneger; 8 vo., p. 382; 8 colored x^lates and map. 

This work is the result of the author's explorations in the Commander 
Islands and in Kamtschatka, and contains the conclusions at which he 
has arrived after careful examination of the avifauna of thai region, his 
investigations being based both upon material observed and collected 
by himself, and also upon specimens in the coUectiou of the ^JTational 
Museum. Tljis bulletin consists of three sections: (1) A review of the 
species of birds collected or observed by the author at the Commander 
Islands, and at Petropaulski, Kamtschatka ; (2) a sj^ nopsis of the birds 
reported to inhabit Kamtschatka; and (3) conclusions. 

The first section, which occupies the larger portion of the work, con- 
tains one hundred and forty descriptions and numerous tables. Be- 
sides technical descriptions there are references to the habitsof the birds, 
and a few illustrations. 

The second section, a synopsis of the birds reported to inhabit Kamts- 
chatka, contains a list of one hundred and eight} -six species, an at- 
tempt being made to enumerate all the species whicli have been recorded 
from that i^lace. A few names of species accredited to Kamtschatka 
without any reliable authority for the statements, are also included. 

The chief sources from which knowledge of the Kamtschatkan ornis 
is derived, are the explorations of Steller, Vossnesseuski, von Kittlitz, 
and Dybowski ; and the author has based some of his statements upon 
their writings, as well as upon his own explorations. There is an ap- 
l)endix to this section, incorporating information from " Listedes Oiseaux 
du Kamtschatka et des lies Commaudenrs par le Dr. B. Dybowski et L. 
Taczanowski," with comments by the author. 

The third part — conclusions — is based upon the two preceding sec- 
tions of the work. The relations of the avifauna of the peninsula to 
that of the islands are briefly discussed, and are exhibited chiefly in the 
form of tables giving the circumpolar, pahearctic, Pacific, American, 
Siberian, East Asiatic, and other forms. The resi<lents and migrants 
are described at some length, and are catalogued in tables. 

Bulletin 30. Bibliography of Pullications relating to the 
Collection of Fossil Invertebrates in the United States 
National Museum, including complete lists of the writings 
OF Fielding B. Meek, Charles A. White, and Charles I), Wal- 
COTT, by John Belknaj) Marcou, 8vo., pp. 333. 

This Bulletin is third in the series of "Bibliographies of American 
Naturalists," and consists of four parts: i, A biographical sketch and 
list of the published writings of Fielding B. Meek ; ii, Published writ- 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



31 



ini^s of Chark'S AbiatUar White, introcUiccd bj' a short biographical 
sketch; iii, A list of the writings of Cliarles Doolittle Walcott; iv, 
Bibliography of publications based upon the pahcontological collec- 
tion of the National Museum, by J. W. Bailey, F. A. Conrad, J. D. Dana, 
C. G, Ehrenberg, James Ilall, Angelo Ileilprin, Alpheus Uyatt, Jules 
Marcou, J. S. Xewberry, ]). I). Owen, James Sbiel, 11. F. iShnmard, K. 
I'. Whittield; and a bibliography of the writings of J. W. Bailey, F. N. 
iNTicollett, II.' A, Front, B. F. Shumard. 

The manuscript for Bulletin 31 : The North American Species of 
Syrpiiid.e, by S. W. Williston, A. M., M. 1)., was sent to the Public 
Printer on January 11. 

In order to insure a more systematic and satisfactory criticism of the 
papers offered for publication in the Proceedings and Bulletin, un advi- 
sory comtt)ittee composed of Dr. Bean, chairman, Professor Mason, Dr. 
Stejneger, Professor Ward and Mr. True, has been appointed to ex- 
amine manuscripts offered for publication. 

Part IV of this iei)ort contains a statement of the i)ublications of the 
'Mnseum during the fiscal year, and also a bibliography' of the papers 
oy officers of the ]\Inseum, and by other investigators whose writings 
are based upon ^Museum material. The authors of these papers num- 
ber 71, 2(3 of whom are connected with the IMuseum, 8 being honorary 
officers. The papers number 323, aiUl are thus distributed under the 
following subjects : 



Subjects. 



Materia Medica „-- 

Fisheries 

Ethnology 

Maiiiiiials 

]]iids 

Fishes 

Mollusks 

Iiis('ets 

Marine Invertebrates 

J II vertebrate Fossils 

I'lants 

MJMcrals 

Jjitliol()j,'y 

.Metallurgy 

('Iieinistry 

Expcriuieutal Physiology and Histology 

Microsco])y 

Taxidermy 

l}iograi)hy and Bibliography 

Miscellaneous 

Total 



By Mu- 
seum otJQ- 
cers. 



38 

9 

37 

1:^ 



1 



19 

1 

19 



227 



By otlier 

iuvestiga 

tors. 



Total. 



38 
15 
56 
44 
11 
59 
14 



3 
2 
4 
2 
17 
19 
1 
2 

20 



52,5 



32 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 
Visitors. 



Daring the year* tlie number of visitors to the Museum Building has 
been 174,225, or an average of 5(53 persons each day, and to the Smith- 
sonian buihling 88,900, or an average of 288 each daj^, as shown in the 
following table : 



Month. 



1885. 

J'lly 

Au<f list 

September 

October 

November 

December 

18H(i. 

January 

February 

March 

April 

May 

June 



Museum 
Building. 



12, 509 
12, 574 
14, 520 
14, 001 
12, l(i4 
15, 463 



12, 057 
14, 398 
16, 935 
20. 099 
15, 034 
14,471 



174, 225 



Smith- 
sonian 
Building. 



6,219 

9, 484 
8, 313 
6,487 
5, 774 
7,550 



6, 235 
6, 373 
8, 194 
9, 318 
7,261 
7, 752 



88, 960 



The total number of visitors to both buildings since the record was 
first kept is given below : 



Year. 



Museum 
Buildiujr. 



Smithsonian 
Bnildiuff. 



1881 

1882 

1H83 

1884 

l.'iM5 (January-June) 
1885-86 

Totals 



* 1.50, 000 
tl(J7,455 
202, 188 
195, 322 
107,365 
174,225 



996, 485 



152, 744 

104, 823 
91,130 
60, 438 
88, 960 



498,085 



* Estimated on basis of register. 

t Estimated on basis of attendance from February 8 to December 31. 



Students and Lectures. 

As in previous years, all reasonable applications for i)ermission to 
study the INIuseum collections have been granted. Mr. G. F. Matthew 
studied the Lowcn" Cambriiin fauna of New Brunswick in the Depart- 
ment of Paleozoic Invertebrate Fossils. Dr. C. Hart Merriam, Dr. \i. 
W. Shufeldt and others have published ]>ai>orst based upon material 

* The Museum was open to tin; public 3UJ days iu the year, 
t See Part iv of this report. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 33 

bel()iii,'iii.i;" to tlic .Miiscuiii. .Mr. It. !'». lliii:s?.s, under rrofessor Clarke's 
ilireclion, inadc full analyses of the lepidolites from Maine, andthecry- 
oi)liyllite and anrite of Kockjwrt, Mass., belonging to the INIuseum col- 
lection, and Mr. George F. Kunz has prepared a description of the col- 
le(;tl()n of gems and ornamental stones.* The material belonging to the 
Department of Molhisks which was taken north of Capo Hatteras, has 
been retained for study by Prof. A. E. Verrill, at New Haven. During 
the winter Prof. E. D. Co[)C was engaged at the Institution u[)()n special 
work, on the collections of re[)tiles; in the course of which ho identi 
tied all the undetermined Batrachia in the Department of Reptiles, and 
identified ami described collections made by the various correspond- 
ents of the Institution in Mexico and in Central and South America. 
He also completed 050 pages of the report u[)on the Batrachia of North 
America. Mr. H. J. Biddle examined a large scries of ores from Mex- 
ico and Missouri, and metallurgical specimens acquired for the Museum 
at the Kew Orleans Ex[)osition, making in all 2,400 determinations. 
Prof. Fernando Ferrari-Perez, of the Mexican Geographical and Ex- 
ploring (Commission, at the close of the New Orleans Exposition, and 
at the invitation of the Institution, brought to Washington for exami- 
nation a large collection of natural history specimens. Every possible 
facility was offered him at the Institution for the arrangement and 
study of this collection, the curator of birds and the curator of mam- 
mals assisting him in determining the species. The visit of Professor 
Perez resulted beneficially for the Museum, since a large portion of this 
collection was given the Museum in exchange for material afterwards 
sent him. The curator of birds says concerning the collection of birds 
received from the Commissiou : " This exceptionally fine collection, as 
regards preparation of the specimens, which had been mounted entirely 
from fresh specimens, was of very great interest and benefit to the 
dej)artment, affording as it did several suggestions of practical value 
and much-needed material for study, including no less than five more 
or less remarkable new species." A catalogue of this collection was 
prepared by Prof. Ferrari-Perez and was published in Proceedings U. 
S. National Museum, Vol. ix, pp. 125-299. 

A number of students were granted permission to associate them- 
selves with a dejiartment in the Museum as volunteer workers. Lieut. 
T. Dix Bolles, U. S. Navy, rendered valuable assistance in the Depart- 
ment of Ethnology. Mr. H. H. James was received into the Mineral 
Department. Lieut. Charles Barnes, IJ. S. R. I\L, si)ent a short time in 
the osteological laboratory previous to his departure for Texas. In the 
taxidermist's laboratory Mrs. Berdell and Mr. William Crane received 
instructions in skinning birds and making bird skins. Mr. E. S. Lewis 
studied in the Department of Lithology and Physical Geology. Eight 
pupils have been instructed in Photography: Mr. George P.Merrill, 
Mr. J. T. Brown, and Mr. W. Hough, of the I\Iuseum ; Mr. O. H. Dodge; 
•Popular Scieucc Monthly, April, 1886. 

H, Mis. 170, pt. 2 3 



34 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Lieuteuant Wiiiterhaltor and Dr. Nash, of tLe U. S. Navy ; Mr. Thomas 
Lee, of the U. S. Fish Cominissioii, aud Mr. II. L. Turner, of the CJeo- 
logical Survey. Mr. Dodge has already rendered vahiable services iu 
photography to the Museum. Mr. Merrill has photographed for his 
own department numerous stone quarries, mud cracks, drift bowlders, 
etc. From Mr. Thomas Lee have beeu received several valuable nega- 
tives which he nuide on the cruise of the Albatross. 

The Saturday Lectures, given under the joint auspices of the Anthro- 
pological and Biological Societies of Washington, were delivered, as in 
j)revious years, in the Lecture Hall. The programme of the. course was 
as Ibllows: 

Saiurda;/, Mitrch G. — Mr. William IIallock: Tliu Gey.scns of tlio Yollowatone. 
Frida;/, March 12.— Piof. William IIauknkss: How (be Sohir System is Measured. 
Salurddi/, March oO.— Prof. T. C. Mendeniiall : The Nuliue of Sound. 
Saturdat/, March 27. — Prof. F. W. Clahkk : Tlie Clieuiistry of Coal. 
Saturdaij, April [i. — Dr. C. IIakt Meukiam : The Migration of Binls. 
Saliirdaij, April 10. — Dr. Washington Matthews, U. S. Army : The Gods of tlio 
Nuvajos. 

Friday, April 16.— Dr. D. B. Simmons: Social Status of tlie Women of Japan. 
Saturday, April 24.— Prof. W. K. Bkooks : -Life. 

Saturday, May 1. — Mr. Lestek F. Waud: Heredity aud 0{»portunity. 
Saturday, May 8. — Dr. J. S. Billings, U. S. Army: Animal Heat. 

(/) Meetings ok Societies. 

As in previous years, several societies have availed themselves of the 
privilege of using the Lecture Hall for their meetings. These have 
been the National Academy of Sciences, the Biological Society of Wash- 
ugtou, Entomological Society of Washington, and the Meteorologists' 
Convention. 

Since the p:i])ers read at the meetings of these societies have in many 
instances related to the work of the Museum, and were illustrated i)y 
Museum specimens, the titles are given below : 

NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES. 

(Meetings April 20,21,22, 1886.) 

G. K. GlLHEKT. — The Geologic Age of the E(iuu.s Fauna." 

T. Stekky Hunt. — The Cowlea Electrical Furnace.* 

E. D. Cope.— On the Phylogeny of the Batraehia.* 

E. D. Cope. — On tlie Phylogeny of the Placental Mammalia.* 

H. A. Newton. — The Comet of Biela.* 

Elias Loomis.— Areas of High Barometric Pressure over Europe and Asia.t 

S. H. SCUDDER. — The Cockroach in the past aud in the prosent.t 

Alfred M. Mayer. — On the diathermancy of Ebonite and Obsidian, and on the 

production of Calorescence by means of screens of Ebonite and Obsidian.! 
Aleked M. Mayer. — On the Coelilicieut of Expansion of Ebonite. t 
Alfred M. Mayer. — On the determination of the Cubical Expansion of a solid by 

a method which does not re([uire calibration of vessuls, weighings, or linear measure.! 
Alfred M. Mayer. — On Measures of ab.solute Radiation. t 
E. D. Cope. — On the Geology of the region near Zacualtipau, Hidalgo, Mexico. | 



' Kead April 20. t Read April 21. X Read A pril 22. 



KEl'OUr OF ASSISTANT SECKKTARY. 35 

Ekwaul) S. Mousk. — On auciciit ;in<l luodoni metliotls of arrow release* 

'liiKODoiiic (in. I,. — Tim ordinal and .•sni)ur-(ti(linal j^ronps of Fishes. t 

II. A. KoWl.A.vo. — On the ab.ioIuU; and ndativc wave lengths of the lines of the 
Solai' .Spcctiinn.t 

WoLCOTT Gli;i;.S. — Pl.itinoiis coni[)onnds as additive molecules. t 

lUA Kk.MSKX. — Inllucnce of Ma;;netisni on Cheniieal Action. t 

Alkxanoer Gu.viiA.M 13KLL. — Upou the Deaf and l>umb of Martha,"s Vineyard (cou- 
tinnation of research relating to the ancestry of the Deaf). 

S. P. Langlky.— On the Invisible Spectra. * 

G. F. IJKCKEii.— Cretaceons Metauiorphie Kucksof California (hy invitation).! 

Ogdkx N. Rood — Ou color contrast. 

Ciiaklks D. Walcott. — Classilication of the C'anihiian System of North Aniericd 
(by invitation). 

A. VV. Wkight. — Crystallization of Platinnni by means of the electric discharge 
in vacuo. t 

W. K. IJiioOKS. — The Stoniatopoda of the '• Challenger " collection.! 

W. K. BuooKS. — Buddiug iu the Tuuicata. 

A. \V. WiUGilT. — Effect of Magnetization on the electrical resistance of Metals. 

K. E. Pkaiiy, U. S. Navy.— Ou a proposed expedition into the interior of (ireeu- 
land during the present summer with Disco as a base (l>y invitation •. 

BIOLOGICAL tiOCIETY OF JIASHIXGTOX. 

The thvst of tlic fortnigLiLly inectiiigs held diuiiiy the year was the 
eighly-seconcl leguhu meeting of the soeiety. 

(October :5I, 1885.) 

Marshall ^IcD(.).\ald. — Fish-culture a necessity for the, maintenance of the shad 
fi.shery. 

William If. Dall. — Deep-sea Moll usks and the laws illustrated in thtnr tlevelop- 
ment. 

KiciiAUi) Kathbun.— Remarks on the Wood's lIoU Station of the U. S. Fish Com- 
mission. 

IvO.MYN Hitchcock. — Notes ou the Red Snow, with exhibition of specimens. 

(November 11, 1885.) 

Richard Rathijux. — Rcinarkg ou the "Wood's IloU Station of the U. S. Fish Com- 
mission. 

W. S. Barxard. — Specimen mounting case and method. 

JoHX A. Rydkr. — A ucwand practical system of raising oysters on a large scale. 

Frkdericic W. TuUK.— Ou a spotted dolphin apparently identical with the /'ro- 
dclphinits doris of Gray. 

(November 28, 1685.) 

'I'iikobald S.MITH. — A simple device for storing cover-glass pri])arat ions illustra- 
tive of bacterial disease. 

W. S. Barxard. — 1. Environmental digestion; 2. Specimen mount, tnbe-holderH, 
labels and stoppers. 

C. Hart Merriam.— The work of the U. S. Department of Agriculture iu economic 
ornithology. 

Charles D. Walcott. — Evidence of the loss of vita! fore<- in eeitain Trilobifes ou 
approacbiug extinction. 

Frederick W. True. — A new study of the Americ.in pocket-rats: y^tmu^ Dlpodomija. 

" Read April 21. t Read April 22. 



36 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

(December 12,1885.) 

J. M. Flint, U. S. Navy. — Exhibition of rcprcsentativo speciiimns of Foraninifem 
from tbo dredging.s of the U. S. Fish Comiuissiou steamer Albatross. 

ROiMYN Hitchcock. — The Red Snow. 

W. S. Barnard. — Digestion; environmental, etc. 

C. V. Riley. — The Mildews of the Grape-vine. 

C. Hart Merriam. — Description of a new 8iibsi»ecies of the common t:i.siiiii l';!ii> 
munk, Tamias striatiis. ' 

(December 26, 1885.) 

C. Hart Merriam. — Contributions to North American Mammalogy. 1. riic. gerins- 

Tarn ias. 
Frank H. Knowlton. — Multiplication in the Gyncecium of Datura atrainonitun, L. 

Otis T. Mason. — Mutilations of the human body. 

On January 1) and 23, 18BG, the sixth annual meeting (eighty-seventh and eighty- 
eighth regular meetings) for the election of oftieora was held. 

On February 6, 188(), the annual address was delivered by Mr. G. Brown Goode, t he 
jiresident of the Society, the subject being "The beginnings of American Natural His- 
tory." 

(February 20, 188G.) 

RoMYN Hitchcock.— Demonstration of the resolving power of anew one-six teen ( li- 
inch objective. 

D. E. Salmon and Thkoijald Smith. — On a new method of producing imiMnuit y 
from contagious diseases. 

C. V. Riley. — A carniverons butterfly larva. 
Lester F. Ward. — The Plane-tree and its ancestors. 

C. Hart Merriam. — Contribution to North American Mammalogy. 2. D- seriptixn 
of a new species o^ Aplodoniia. 

Gkorgk Vasky. — New and recent species of North American Grasses. 

(March {;, 188G.) 

George Vasky. — Niiw and recent species of North American Grasses. 

Charles Hallock. — Hyper-instinct of animals. 

W. S. Bar.vard. — Exhibition of a fungus, with remarks. 

H. G. Beyek, U. S. Navy — Remarks on Antii)yretics. 

(March 20, 1886.) 

D. E. Salmon and Theobald Smith — Notes on some biological analyses of Poto- 
mac drinking-water. 

H. G. Beyer, U. S. Navy — Remarks on Antii>yretics. 

W. S. Barnard — Exhibition of a fungus, with remarks. 

Frank H. Knowlton — Additions to and changes in the Flora Columbiana for 
1885. 

Frank Baker and J. L. W()Rtm.\.\ — Recent investigations into the mechanism of 
the elbow-joint. 

(April 3, 1886.) 

Frank Baker and J. L. Wortman — Recent investigations into the mechanism of 
the elbow-joint. 

John B. Smith — Some jjccnliar secondary .sexual characters in the Deltoids, and 
their supposed function. 

C. Hart Merriam — Cyntributions to North .\inerican Mammalogy. 3. Dcscrip- 
tiou of iv new ,si.il)spe(;i(;s of Gray Squirrel. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 37 

li. W. SiiUi'"KLDT, {]. S. Aii.MY — Some oiuly, ami as yet uii[)ul)li.sliinl, drawings of 
Auduljon. 
TllKODOiiic Gill — Tlio cluiracteri.stics and fauiilics of iniomoiis liishes. 

(April 17, 188(3.) 

TiiKdDoiiK Gill — The characteristics ami families of iiiiomotis fishes. 
I''ki:dkkic a. Lucas — Notes on the vertebne of Amphiuma, Sii-en, and Mfuopoma. 
Fkkdkkicu W. Tuue — 1. Exhibition of a wood hare with abnormal j,'iovvili of 
fur. '2. Some distinctive cranial characters of the Canadian Lynx. 

li. E. C. Stkarns —Instances of the effect of musical sounds on ai]inials. 
John 15. S.mith — Ants' nests and their inhabitants. 

(May 1, l.SS(i.) 

R. E. C. SteakN'S — Instances of the etl'i'ct of musical soiimls nii aniiuals. 
Joiix A. RvDEii — The evolution of the mammalian i)lacenta. 
T. II. Beax — The trout of Norih America, with exhil)ition of specimens. 
William II. Dall — 1. On the attachnuMit of LuujnUi, with exliibitiou of speci- 
mons. 2. On the divisions of the i^enns 7V(7t'». 

(May iri, ISriO.) 

.Toiix I>. S.MiTii — Ants' nesls and their inhabitants. 

T. II. I>KAX — The trout of North Anunica, with (>xhibilion of sp<>cimens. 

L. (). Howard — On some new ChaJcAdida. 

C. Haht Mkhkiam — Habits of the Short-tailed Shrew. 

(May 29, 1886.) 

.loiix 15. Smith— Ants' nests and tlieir inhabitants. 

T. H. Bean — The trout of North America, with exhibition of specimens. 
L. O. MoWAKD— On sonu^ new Chaleidida: 

Lestkii F. Ward — Exhibition of a specimen of the Palo la Cruz, or Wood of the 
Cross. 

ENTOMOf.OGICAL SOCIETY OF JTASIIINGTOX. 

(November 18. 1885.) 

Otto LtJGGKR — On thi* t-urlier staytisand habits of C<r.tna dimidiaia. 

B. P. Man.v — On th(5 Dewey decimal system of classifying and arranging books. 

J. B. Smith — On Dr. Gerstjccker's jiaper on the systematic position of the genus 
Pleocoma Le C. 
L. O. IIowARO— On Thoracanlha Jloridana Ashmead. 

(December 3, 1885.) 

J. B.Smith — On the occurrence o£ Pleocoma Behrenni in IJtali Territory. 
J. B. Smith — On the larva of Aphorista rittaia. 

C. V. Riley — On the larval habits of TAxuh macvr and L. parcnx. 

E. A. SciiWARZ — On the food-habits of an undescribed calaiidrid beetle. 
L.O.Howard — On the larval respiration in Cori/dalus vornutus. 

B. P. Mann — On the nsfi of the Dewey decimal system. 

(January 7, lS8f.. ) 

Annual address of the retiring President, Prof. C. V. Rik-y. 

H. 08Rr)n,v — Observations on certain 8i)ecies of Jlcmiptera. 

Otto Luggkr — On the life-habits of .l/^r-xiV^,* siihcijlindriens and Plati/pn.^ flai'icorniH. 

C. V. RiLKY — On thci l.irviB and pu|);o of Apkori^lii villala and Epipocun punctalua. 



38 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 18aG. 

(February 12, 1H8G.) 

C. V. Riley — On tbo food-babits of tlio larva of Fenenica tarquinius. 

L. O. Howard— Oil the Clialcid genus Podarjrion. 

Otto Lugger — On a new pattern of Aquarium. 

J. 15. Smith — On tbc odoriferous apparatus in LepidopU'ra. 

(March 4, 1886.) 

L. () IIoWAKD— On a parasite; of Cynips qiiercits-saltatorius. 

J. 15. S.MirH — On the structural characters of the Attacinw and Ceratocamp'inoe. 

Gkougic Marx— On thfi structural ciiaracters of Tlich/phonuH gigantens. 

E. A. SCKWARZ — Oil the rediscovery of Iik;iiicoliis corticalis Boli. 

(April 1, 1886.) 

E. A. ScilWARZ — On the life-history of some North American Scoli/iidoe. 
J. R. S.MITH — On some features in the structure rtf the fauiilj' Saturniidoe. 

(May 13, 1886.) 

George Marx — On the structural characters of the genus Plirijnus and on the 
classification of the family rhrijnida\ 

E. A. ScilWARZ— On the oviposition of Xijlchorus ccrlatits and on tin; gaUeries of 
AJotinrllirnm rnali. 

(June n, 1886.) 

J. B. Smith — On the scent organs in the males of Leiirarctia aenia and Piirrhurclla 
Isabella. 

E. A. SCHWARZ — On a new food ])lant of Picrix rapcr. 

Otto Lugger — On the introduction of certain foreign CoUopiera into North 
America. 

Otto Lugger — On the fertilization of Ctjpripcdium acaule and the Hard Maple. 

L. O. Howard — On a remarkable case of muscular force exhibited in L'anthon 
vigilens. 

E. A. ScHWAi:/-— On the Braconid parasite of Pi.ssodcs ulrohi. 

A couvention of meteorologists Avas beld on February L'4 and L'5: 
General William B. Ilazen, Chief Signal Officer, in tlie cliair. 

2. CURRENT ADMINISTRATIVE WORK. 

(a) Buildings and Labor, Polick and Public Comfort. 

The regular staff for ]K)liec and insi)ecti()n under the supervision of 
Henry Ilorau, superintendent of buildings, has included an assistant 
superintendent, a clerk, an inspector, eight watchmen, five door-keepers; 
for (;onstruction, care of buildings, and repairs, fivecari)enters, a painter, 
and a stone-cutter; for labor and cleaning, nineteen laborers (three of 
whom are constantly detailed to Avatchmen'sduty), three attendants, and 
five cleaners. For heating and lighting there were employed an engi- 
neer and, for the greater part of the year, five firemen. In the dejiart- 
ment of police and inspection, the services of an assistant superintend- 
ent and four watchmen have been dispensed with. For construction 
and repairs, the force has been ilecreased by three carpenters and two 
painters. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SKCRKTARY. o9 

Tlio lollowinij;- abstract oi" the report of the Superintendent of Biiihl- 
iny,s for the year will serve to show tlie. various ways in which the me- 
chanics and hiborers have been employed : 

Jaiij. — The unlo:i(lii\i; iviid storage of the metallurgical cxliihUs fioiu riiil;uh-l])hi:i 
were completed. The arrival from the New Orleans Exposition of the Smithsonian col- 
lections commenced, and the boxes as soon as received were stored temporarily in (he 
lecture hall. This was a worlc of great labor, and demanded the assistance of almost 
the entire laboring force. A portion of the colhujtion of fossil plants was removed to 
the northwest gallery in the Smithsonian building, which had been assigned as ii lab- 
oratory for the department. The Indian spears were removed from the Anthropolog- 
ical Hall in the Smithsonian building to the northeast gallery, for classification and 
re-arrangement. The exhibit of the Department of Agriculture at New Orleans wa,8 
received and placed in the Museum building. The shelving in the main hall of the 
Smithsonian building — devoted to the display of mounted birds — was changed in 
accordance with the wishes of the curator of birds. This work occupied the time of 
carpenters and painters for .several weeks. Five one-fourth unit sections were con- 
structed for the Department of mammals, and the flat-top cases in which the gem eol- 
leclion had been exhibited at New Orleans were restored to the Mineral Hall. 

Angunl. — The carpenters commenced fitting and arranging shelving in the iloor- 
upright cases in the west hall. Nine pedestals for the Department of Comparative 
Anatomy were finished and placed in the Exhibition llall. 

September. — The erection of a new case for the Department of Birds was commenced. 
The work of making and fitting shelving for the slope cases in the Department of 
Minerals, and the construction of diaphragms for the ca.ses in the Department of 
Metallurgy were begun. The wooden annex building was moved tJO feet towards the 
west. Slope cases were arranged in the Gothic Hall, Smithsonian building, for the 
reptile casts. Table-cases were arranged in the laboratorj' and exhibition hall of the 
Department of Mollusks, and five humlred trays fitted for the same;. 

October. — Screens were placed along the galleries in the Smithsojiian building in 
order to secure greater privacy to the curators to whom laboratories have been as- 
signed there. The columns and walls of the main hall of the Smithsonian building 
were cleaned and repainted. The boat models, returned from New Orleans, were un- 
packed and replaced on exhibition in the hall assigned to the section of naval archi- 
tecture. A portion of the metallurgical exhibit in the west liall of the Museum 
building was transferred from temporary pedestals to exhibition cases. The Mexican 
casts were installed on pedestals prepared by the carpenters for their reception. A 
largo number of empty cases were removed from the northeast court. The re-opening 
of the Exposition at New Orleans caused the repacking and reshipment thither of a 
large portion of the exhibit of the State Department, which had beentran.sferred to the 
custody of the Museum. Shelves were arranged in the balconies of the rotunila for 
the reception of living plants. 

Korcmhcr .- -'Y\iG collection of musical instruments was removed from the east h:ill to 
the north hall, and the ethnological exhibits were re-arranged. 

Models and relief maps, received from the Geological Survey, were placed upon ex- 
hibition. Shelving was arranged around the west basement of the Smitli.sonian 
building for the convenience of the department of fishes. The repair of cases in- 
jured on the journey to and from New Orleans was commenced. The work-rooms of 
the t;ixidermist and osteologist, in the annex building, were ceiled. The col led ion 
of scientific instruments was removed from the east to the north hall. 

December. — Skylights were placed in two of the rooms on the west balcony .»nd in 
one room on tho .south balcony. The "kno(;k-dowu " cases from New Orleans, which 
had been temporarily stored in the Icctiiir, hall, were removed to the east entrance, 
preparatory to being taken apart and })l;iced in storage. A rearrangement of the 
mass of material in the Armory buihling was (Mlecieil, uii<l<'r the suprivisiou of the 



40 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

registrar. A partition was built in the northeast end of the annex building, and the 
gallery and ceiling extended. 

The hip-cases, returned from New Orleans, were placed in the hall devoted to the 
fishery exhibit, and the fish-casts removed from the southeast court and arranged in 
them. The radiators were removed from along the wall in the northeast court further 

V 

out into the hall, in order to admit the wall-cases intended for the display of furs. An 
experiment was made in frosting one of the windows in the main hall, Smithsonian 
building, in order to exclude the strong sunliglit from the bird exhibit. A new style 
of case, resembling a bay window, was constructed for the northeast court, and 
proved satisfactory. The locomotive "John Bull," presented to the Museum by the 
Pennsylvania Railroad Company, was removed from the Armory building and placed 
on exhibition in the north hall of the Museum building. Shelving for cases, the fit- 
ting of locks and of trays, the construction of packing-boxes, the glazing of cases, 
the erection of screens, i^ainting of walls, etc., the construction of new doors for some 
of the cases used in the department of birds, the relaying of floors, the fitting up some 
of the galleries in the Smithsonian building, and the construction of pedestals for 
exhibition purposes, occupied a great deal of time. 

January. — The construction of a half-pillar case was commenced. The work of 
making diaphragms for hanging photographs in the Fishery Hall was continued. A 
small room on the south balcony was fitted up for the curator of plants. The long 
hip-case in the Fishery Hall was painted and glazed. All the boxes, etc., which had 
been stored in the Lecture Hall, were removed, and the hall prepared for the course of 
Saturday lectures, to commence March 6. Pedestals were made for the Egyptian 
li"uros in the north hall. Jluch time was spent by laborers in clearing snow from 
the sidewalks. The dark room on the second floor of the northwest pavilion was 
fitted with shelves. A flle-ca.se was constructed for the assistant director's office. 
The large Indian canoe in the section of naval architecture Avas suspended from the 
ceiling. Several of the doors leading to the vaults and storage-rooms in the Smith- 
sonian building were lined with tin, with a view to rendering these apartments com- 
paratively flre-proof. The totem-posts were removed from the statuary hall to the 
south wall of the west hall. 

Fchrnary. — A portion of the annex building was partitioned off as a laboratory for 
the Invertebrate Fossils. A railing was built in the Pottery Hall, thus cutting ofl';i 
portion of the hall required for assorting and repairing specimens. The construction 
of settees for the rotunda was commenced by the Museum carpenters. The shelving 
in some of the cases in the Anthropologic:il Hall was refitted. 

March. — The tin roof over the Gothic Hall, Smithsonian building, was repaired. 
A railing was built around the lecture hall to protect the Catlin pictures, and in 
the section of naval architecture as a jirotcction to some of the boat models which 
are fastened against the wall. An extension of the diaphragms to which the Catlin 
pictures are fastened was commenced. A sloping map-case for the department of 
lithology was completed. An old vault under the north entrance to the Smithsonian 
building was fitted with shelving for the storage of fish-casts, molds, etc. The settees, 
diaphragms, etc., already referred to, were painted, and also the five pine table-cases 
for the department of invertebrate of fossils. The Peruvian jiottery was removed 
from the Smithsonian building to the Museum. Two storage rooms in the west base- 
ment of the Smithsonian building were arranged with shelving for the departments 
of marine invertebrates and moUusks. The Indian pottery, which had been stored 
behind the wall-case in the northeast court, was removed to the basement rooms in 
the east wing of the Smithsonian building. Three arch-screens were finished by the 
Museum carpenters. Unit table-cases were painted for the department of ethnology, 
and a double arch-screen was erected at the entrance to the lecture hall. Work 
upon eight settees for the Rotunda "ivere commenced by the Museum carpenters. 

April.— T]xo construction of a large open screen by the Museum carpenters for the 
west entrance was commenced. The telephone room was frescoed and painted. A 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 41 

large case was made for the filin;^ of duplicate labels. The large slieot of plate glass 
was fitted in the fur-seal case. A large sink with water connection was provided for 
the annex building. The collection of snow-shoes was removed from screens in the 
east hall and aiTanged on diaphragms over pier-cases. 

Mail. — The painting of kouic old llat-top cases in the main hall of the Smithsonian 
building, for the department of moUnsks, was conunenced. Carpenters were en- 
gaged for eight days in making alterations in the large wall-case at the west end of 
the Anthropological hall, Smithsonian building. Casters were placed on some of the 
cases in the southeast court, thus removing the cases and their contents out of the 
way of dampness. The large wall-case just referred to was painted. Work was 
commenced on the preparation of two hundred oak blocks for the installation of 
spears. A car-load of specimens received from New Orleans was stored in the south- 
east court. 

Jane. — The construction of settees for the Rotunda was completed. The large ebon- 
ized cases for the Pottery hall were glazed, and locks were adjusted to cases in the 
departments of lithology and comparative anatomy. Much was done in painting 
walls, glazing and painting cases, di.aphragms, pedestals, blocks, and label frames. 

During the year, besides the regular force, there were employed additional carpen- 
ters, laborei-s, ;ind painters, as occasion demanded. 

(/*) Elkcthic Seuvicf:. 

Ill the baseiueiit oC the Sinitiisoniaii bnihlin<Tf and in the main and 
anthropological halls there h.ive been placed electric call-bells for the 
purpose of calling the auperintendent during business hours and the 
watchmen during the hours after the building is closed to the ]Hil)lic. 
Signal buttons have been placed near the bells. 

The watch-clock system, which has been in use for eight years, has 
been reconstructed and put in good order. Three electric time-clocks 
have been placetl in the main exhibition hall and connected with the 
standard clock in the Museum building. The annex building, carpenter- 
sho]), and paint-sho[) have been furnished with watch-clock service. 

A large gong has been placed outside of the east entrance for the pur- 
pose of calling emi)loyes outside of the luain building. 

The library has been connected with the ofQce of the mammal depart- 
ment by means of a call-bell, and the engine-room is now similarly con- 
nected with the photograph gallery. 

The time service, watch-clock service, and call-bell service have been 
kept in good order. 

An electrical hydrostatic indicator has been jdaced in the Armory 
building. 

Two call-bells have been placed in the south towers. The time clocks 
are worked by a battery of fifty cells, a battery of forty-live cells work- 
ing the other systems. These are in excellent con<lition. 

Considerable difficulty has been encountered in keeping the in- 
trenched wires in order, on account of the heat and condition of the 
trenches. 

A list of the electrical apj^aratus in the National Museum at the end 
of Jun>e, 188."), was given in the last; report,* since which date no im- 
portant additions have been made. 

* Pages 27-29. 



42 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886 



(c) Cases and Fixtures. 

During the year ending June 30, 1886, $21,521.24* was expended out 
of the $40,000 appropriated for furnituro and fixtures, for exhibition 
eases, screens, unit drawers and trays, tiiblets, stands, unit boxes, lum- 
ber, plate glass, locks, brackets, and other necessary fittings ; $3,171.93 
has been expended for glass jars for holding specimens; $G32.91 was 
expended for furniture for exhibition halls and oflicesj $1,771.90 was 
expended lor apparatus for laboratories, halls, and repairs ; $278 was 
expended for grate and boiler fixtures — a total of $27,370.04. 

There was also exi)ended, out of the furniture and fixtures ai^projiria- 
tion, for wages of mechanics and laborers, and salaries of property' clerk, 
accountant, copyist, and other necessary employes, $12,578.91, f leaving 
a balance of $45.05. 

(d) IMlOPERTY AND SUPPLIES. 



The methods employed in the department of supplies have been 
greatly im])roved during theyear under the administration of W. V. Cox, 
chief clerk of the Museum. The force of clerks has been temporarily 
increased, and steps have been taken toward the completion of the 
records, some of which were in an imperfect condition, owing to the 
rapid growth of the Museum since its reorganization. 

Experience has proven that when a large supply of articles is kept 
in stock there is a greater tendency to waste and extravagance than 
when the supply is limited. In other words, no economy has been found 

* The following cases, screens, unit drawers, etc., have been made for the Museum 
during the year by outside coustructors : 



25 m.iliogany unit table cases $2, 1 50. 00 

1.5 wlno piuo unit tablo cases C72. 4.j 

IG inalioiiany balf unit table cases 768.00 

fi wb »'.o jiiuo bait unit taljlo cases 150.00 

2 white jiiuo Salviu bird cases LOT. 8H 

1 %vliito p:no sectional library case 21.00 

4 white pino J-uiiit table cases 78. 40 

1 white pine caul catalogue case 10. (lO 

7 JvenHiuuton ca.ses 478.00 

1 white pnie plioto-niieroscopo case 3G. (10 

1 white pino lilo case 32. fiO 

2 berliariinn cases 165. 00 

10 leilwood insect cases 607.00 

1 ash seal case 135.00 

1 walnut case remodeled 8.'). 00 

9 told screens, onc-balf pillars GOT. 00 

10 poplar arch screens ].')0. 00 

1 oak mosaic screen 59.00 

30 fold screens 09.00 

1 mineral dresser 24.00 



1 pair sfonii doors 

15 niabojiany and ash frames 

1 while pine base 

5,429 unit drawois and trays 

54,440 i)asteboard Iraya, boxes, and 

covers 

14,984 tablets for niountins; specimens. . 

7(i:! biid Hiands and wito nests 

100 insect, lioxes and cork lor lininn; 

1 8,200 label-holders 

],G89 plate glass 

.5:!0 locks 

1,000 brackets and hooks 

Kilo boxes and holdeis 

Drawiuiis lor cases, etc 

Travebns; expenses to inspect co/ses 

Interior and other necessary fittings . . . 
Lumber , 



83. 50 

20. 26 

20.00 

2, 871. 74 

1,309.G9 

9 i5. 18 

9.^. 96 

128. .50 

85. 55 

2, 324. 43 

817. 95 

109. 00 

50. 48 

896. 60 

12.91 

2, 674. 55 

2,467.71 



Total 21,.5J1.24 



The following cases, diaphragms, pedestals, etc., have been made in the Mn.seuni 
carpenter shop. 

7 mahogany slope cases, half size. 

3 storage cases. 
7 po])lur arch-screens. 
10 oak settees. 
26 white pino bases. 

4 oak bases. 
16 diapliragros. 

t The highest salary paid was that of property clerk, $100 per montli ; lowest, copyist, $10 per month ; 
average, $62.50. The greatest number of employ^^'s in a month was 30; the .smallest, 7; an average of 
ICj^. The highest wages paid mecb.auics and labort-rs wa.s $"> per day; lowest, $1.. 50; average, $2.25. 



1 cb(>rry desk. 

I walnut lilo case. 

1 mahogany file case. 

1 mahogany case for maps. 

1 mahogany tile and drawers for case. 

20 walnut pedestals, .issorled sizes. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 43 

in buying larger quantities, even at a cheaper rate, than when only 
sufficient supplies for immediate use are procured. Therefore only arti- 
cles of every-day use are uow kept on hand. 

The method of procedure in issuing supplies has been changed. The 
usage of the present time provides that the heads of dejnirtments shall 
fde a requisition, as formerly, for whatever may bo required in his 
work. If the articles are of a kind usually kept in stock, this requisi- 
tion is presented to the i)roperty clerk, who attends to it and makes 
proper entries in his books. If the articles are not in stock, the requi- 
sition is sent to the chief clerk of the Museum, who mails proposals to 
established firms or manufacturers for the articles required. Upon the 
return of the proposals, the prices are inserted on the original ropiisi- 
tion and it is sent to the Assistanfe Secretary for action. If the espendi. 
ture be authorized, the requisition is approved and returned to the 
chief clerk of the Museum, who makes out an order for the articles, 
sending also a uotification to the property clerk for his guidance. The 
firm is required to deliver the articles, with a memorandum bill, to Ihe 
registrar, who makes an entry of them in his books and turnsthe articles 
over to the property clerk. This oflicer deli\ers them to the ])erson 
making the requisition, at the same time obtaining his receipt. Tin's 
form is filed by the property clerk in his office. Itemized bills, giving 
the number of the orders, are required to l>e presented in duplicate 
each month. These bills are examined by the }>roperty clerk, and if 
found to correspond to the notification in regard to (puintity and ])rice 
are certified to by him. The proi)crty clerk retains one of the certified 
bills and sends the other to the cliief clerk of the Museum, who com- 
pares it with the stubs in the order-book. If it is found to corresi)ond 
to the orders, it is referred to the Assistant Secretary, who directs that 
it be paid. The bill is then sent to the chief clerk of the Smithsonian 
Institution, to be transferred to official forms. The voucher i)assea 
through the same hands as did the original bill and undergoes the same 
scrutiny and is ready for i)ayment when it receives the approval of the 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Should a curator desire to niake the selection of the articles himself, 
as scientific apparatus, for instance, a special form giving him that 
permission is furnished. This form, which states that the charges are 
just and reasonable, the curator sigus, after obtaining the arti<;les, an<l 
transmits with the bill to the pro])erty clerk, as in the case Just men- 
tioned. Proper entries are made in the books, so that at any time it is 
easy to ascertain the (iost of articles and the amount expended for any 
department. It will be seen that, with so many checks and counter- 
checks, the Museum interests are in every particular safely guarded, 
and what may appear cunibersome routine after all greatly Ijudlitates 
the obtaining of su])plies, accounting for the same, as well as the set- 
tlement of bills. 

All the cases, 'luniture, etc., b(;longing to the iVruseum are stamped 



44 REPORT ON NATIONAL ISrUSEUM, 1886. 

with the Miiseiiin cipher aud numbered. Supplies are issued upon 
requisitions approved by the Assistant Secretary, which are filed with 
the j)roperty clerk, and the articles in each case are charged up to the 
dejiartmeiit to whicli they have been assigned. 

Anodier change that has been made during the year has been the 
appointment of a committee of experts to examine all cases, articles of 
furniture, etc., to see that the contra(;tor has performed his part of the 
contract, and that the articles are u[) to ]\Iusenm standard, and therefore 
in proper shape for acceptance. A second committee inspects lumber, 
in order to see that it is of the kind ordered, of the proper dimensions, 
and is satisfactory for the purposes for which intended. A third com- 
mittee examines the unserviceable i>roperty of the Museum, and reports 
what action in their judgment is desirable. These committees have per- 
formed their duties faithfully and witli very satisfactory results, reliev- 
ing tiiis ofBce at the same time of much detail and labor. 

(«) COKRESroNDENCK AND RkPOUTS. 

The Museum correspondence, wliieh is under the charge of the exec- 
utive clerk, Mr. 11. I, CT(;arc, has N'ery largely increased during the year. 
There have been written for the signatures of the Secretary and Assis- 
tant Secretary 1,100 letters and 1,001 acknowledgments of accessions, 
and -00 reports upon specimens sent for examination have also been 
prepared. 

(/) Preparation ov Labels. 

Five thousand eight hundred and sixty forms of labels have been 
printed at the Government Printing Olhce, as shown in the following 
table : 



Department. No. ol' forms. 

Mefcallnroical 1,111 

Materia nicdica 1. 407 

IJirds 1)40 

Slioll.s 2(54 

Fishes m.i 

Biuidiiig. stones l,i*(F) 



Department. No. of forms. 

Kllinological 122 

>Jaiiiinals 'M 

'J'ex tiles 274 



Total .''1,800 

Several hundred lables have also been printed in the INIuseum. 



:?. THE WORK OF THE MUSEUM PREPARATORS. 
(a) Taxidermists. 

The work of the year v«'as opened by a journey ol" the chiel' taxidermist 
to Keene, N. IT., in com])any wifh Mr. V. A. liUcas, the osteologist, to 
receive a full-grown Indian elenhant, named "Albert," whieli was shot 
by order of lion. P. T. Barnum at that town on July 20, and presented 
to the National Museum. 1'lie i)reparators reached the elephant about 
thirty-four hours after its death, and. with the aid of four butchers, 
the animal was quickly dissected. In two days the skin was removed 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECKr/fARY. 45 

and snccessfnlly preserved. All tlie bones of the skeleton were 
"roiiglied out," and on the third day skin and skeleton were boxed 
securely aud shipped to Washiu.^ton. The skin weighed 1,080 pounds, 
and wheu removed was in some places 1 [ inches in thickness. Upon 
its arrival at the taxiderniicj laboratory it was i)reserved in a soft state, 
to be mounted as soon as practicable. 

Among the other important acquisitions of fresh specimens received 
during the year were a very fine Burchell's zebra, a royal Bengal tiger, 
a horse antelope, water-buck, white-faced antelope, an eland, a llama, 
and a black macaque. 

Of the specimens mounted by the chief taxidermist, Mr. William T. 
Hornaday, the Bengal tiger and the Burchell's zebra seem worthy of 
especial mention. 

These two specimens may fairly be regarded as showing the possibili- 
ties of taxidermy in the treatment of difQcult subjects. It is especially 
worthy of note that they are both so substantially mounted in every 
part as to render them essentially imperishable if kept under glass. 

Among other specimens mounted during the year were a number of 
very fine and rare ungulates of large size, including a water-buck, Afri- 
can wild sheep, white-faced antelope, llama, and others; a very large 
aud handsome leopard; a cheetah; an elephant-seal 11 feet in length, 
and a series of very fine kangaroos. 

Work in the laboratory was interrupted during seven weeks of May 
and June by the exploration for buffalo iu Montana, undertaken by Mr. 
Uornaday and his assistant, A. II. Forney, accompanied by Mr. George 
II. Iledley, of Medina, N. Y. On account of the fear that it might be 
impossible to find buffalo at all, or at least without a search of three or 
four months, a start was made in the spring with the hope of finding 
animals before they would commence to shed their hair. 

By hard work and good fortune a fewbufialo were found in Montana, 
but by the time the first specimens were killed they had shed their 
hair to such an extent as to render their skins not fit to mount as typi- 
cal specimens of the species. Accordingly the party returned imme- 
diately with the collection already made, to go out again in October to 
finish the \eork. A report of this exploration will be published after 
the work is completed, including a list of the collections made by the 
party during the month spent in the field. 

A A^ery important item of the work done by the chief taxidermist has 
been the installation of the exhibit of the Society of American Taxider- 
mists, which is now very attractively dis[)lay(Hl along the north side of 
the northeast court. It is greatly admired, iind by many visitors is 
carefully studied. 



46 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G 



List of mammal's, etc., mounted by the Taxidermists of the U. S. National Museum daring 

the year 1885-'8G. 



PRIMATES. 

15323. MacacuB manrus (Black Macaque). 
1512G. Seninopithecus cuciillatus (Black 
Laiigiir). 

CAUNIVOIIA. 

14337. Felis loopardus (Leo[»aid). 
14397. Felus jubata (Cheetah). 
l:U)6l. Felis ornatiis. 
1638. Felis catus. 
l.'')04]. C:misoccid(nitalis(Gray Wolf). 
142!J7. Cants ramiliari8(St. Bornard Dog). 
15173. Cercoleptes caiulivolvulus (Kiiik- 
ajou). 

PINXIPKDIA. 

14629. Macrorliluus angnstirostria (Ele- 
phant Seal, 11 feet long). 

UNGULATA. . 

ir)120. Equusburchelli (BurclielPs Zebra). 

14997. Kobus ellipsipriniutia (Water- 
Buck). 

149.">(). Dainalis pygarga (White-faced An- 
telope). 

13069. Ovis tragelai)hus (African Wild 
Sheep). 

13829. Nemorhedu.i cri.spa (Japanese 
Goat). 

14114. Cervus coluiubiauus (Black-tailed 
Deer). Head. 

14999. Cervus dania (Fallow Deer). 

15250. Llama glauia (Llama), 

RODENTIA. 

15172. Synetheres prehensilus. 



MAKSUPIAI.IA. 

15772. Macropusrufus (? (Red Kangaroo). 

15228. Macropusrufus V (Rod Kangaroo;. 

1.5297. Macropus rufus T (Red Kangaroo). 

15295. Macropus robustus (Great Rock 
Kangaroo). 

1.5299. Macropus parryi (Parry's Kanga- 
roo). 

15;>00. Halmaturus dorsal is (Black-striped 
Kangaroo). 

1.5302. Halmaturus ruficoUis (Red-necked 

Kangaroo). 

1.5303. Halmaturus temporalis. 

15304. Halmaturus thetidis (Padomolon 

Kangaroo). 
15310. Phascolarctos cinereus (Koala). 

MISCELLANEOUS OBJECTS MOUNTED. 
Hexanchus griseus (Gray Shark), 10 feet 
8 inches long. 

MISCELLANOUS WORK DONE. 
33 mountetl mammals were repaired. 
154 mounted mammals from New Orleans 

were cleaned and cased. 
20 skulls were removed from skins of 

mammals. 
24 dry skins were relaxed, shaped, dried, 
and dressed. 
5 dry skins were poisoned. 
1 fur suit was repaired and dressed. 
17 boxes of specimens were packed for 

shipment. 
43 boxes of specimens were unpacked 
and distributed. 
4 students received instructions in tax- 
i'lerraic methods. 



One circular of directions was written for publication, and material 
for four illustrations was prepared. 

The exhibit of the Society of American Taxidermists was prepared for 
e.xliibition antl installed. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



47 



List of inainiitals in IlieJUsIi secnrvd (hiriiuj thu year. 



PlllMATES. 

lo3'2;?. Cyuopithecns nigor. 

15357. Cebus liypoleiicus(White-tbroiitecl 

Capuchiu). 
15361. Ccrcocibus iilbigeua. 
15482. CiTcopitbecua diaiia (Diaiiu Mon- 

key). 
15251. Macacus pulops. 

UXGULATA. 
15120. E(iuii8burcbelli(Biucboirs Zebra). 
15215. Hippotragus equinua. 
15250. Llama glarua (Llama). 
15318. Cervis axis iiorcaiiius. 
22185. Oreas cauua (Elaml). 
22187. Ovis tragelapUus (Africaa Wild 

Sbeep). 
15347. Cervus porciuus. 

PllOCOSCIDEA. 

15142. Eleijha.s indicus, " Albe,it" (Indian 
Elepliaut), 8^ foot high. 



CARNM VOUA. 

15387. Eclis tigri« (Tiger). 

15230. Felis loopardus (Leopard). 

15173. Cercoleptus caudi volvulus (Kiu- 

kajou). 
152.5». rutoriu,s urmiuea (Enjiiiic). 

KODKNTIA. 

15172. Syuetliores preheusilia. 
1.5220. Syuethcres prchensilia. 
15219. Sciurus niger ciuei'eus (Northern 

Fox Sfj[uirrel). 
15320. Sciurus aureogaster (Iled-bellied 

S<iuirrel). 
1.5280. Erethrizon epixanthus (We.-iteru 

Porcupine). 
15352. Dasyprocta isthuiica. 

MAUSUPIALIA. 

15174. Macrojjus walabaiu.s (Black-taihid 

Kangaroo). 
15228. Macropus rufus (Red Kangaroo). 



Mr. Henry Mjirsliall has, as usual, worked under the direction of the 
curator of tlie department of birds, and a jijreat deal has been accom- 
plished by him during the year. 

{h) OSTEULOGICAI, PUKPAHATUR. 

The following table shows the number of osteological specimens pre- 
pared or mounted by Mr. F. A. Lucas during the year, as well as the 
number of animals received in the llesh, whose rough preparation in- 
volved an outlay of considerable time and labor : 





Mammals. 


Birds. 


Roi>tile8. 


Batrachia. 


Fishes. 


Received in the flesh : 


39 

8 

23 

25 

4 

19 
11 
25 


6 

1 

9 

14 

7 

12 

9 

8 


3 


1 


G 


Incomplete skeletons 

Cleaned : 

Entire skeletons 




11 


5 


5 


Skulls 


90 


Incomplete skeletons 

Mounted : 

Entire skeletons 








10 


>) 


12 


Skulls . . 






Limbs and other ])icces 


4 




3 







This table gives a total of 372 specimens on which work was done 
dui-ing the year, iiuiluding one wliale 20 feet in length, and the full- 
grown elephant " Albert." In addition to the work noted above, the 
plaster cast of tlie Giant Tortoise (Coloswohelij.s) has been mounted in 



48 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

theMiiseuiu Buikliug and completely repaired, and numerous skeletons 
transferred from ]>edestaLs of various ])atterns to others of the now 
ado])ted standards. Tlie rapid accession of material has necessitated 
numerous rearrangements of both tlie study and exhibition series, re- 
quiring the expenditure of much time and labor. This and the prelimi- 
nary work of rendering the collection of bird skeletons accessible for 
study have consumed a great portion of tlie osteologist's time. 

The specimens in the department of comparative anatomy have long 
been in confusion, and it has taken several weeks to arrange them tem- 
porarily. Before the close of another year it is hoped that the work of 
installation, if not completed, will be well advanced. Since the speci- 
mens added to the exhibition series are dwelt upon at some length in 
the report of the curator of comparative anatomy, it will be necessary in 
this connection only to acknowledge the valuable services of the assist- 
ant preparator, Mr. J. W. Scollick. The skeleton of Python in particu- 
lar bears witness to his skill and patience. 

The osteologists now have in use three tanks, thirty-five barrels, and 
six kegs, containing seventy-one skeletons and thirty-one skulls, a con- 
siderable number of skeletons being ready for maceration, but not placed 
in barrels owing to the impossibility of cleaning them during the pres- 
ent year. Two years ago the yard and shed, devoted to the cleaning of 
skeletons, were enlarged to three times their previous capacity, but now 
the working space has become greatly crjiu![)ed and still further enlarge- 
ment is extremely desirable. 

(c) MODKLEKS. 

INlr. J. W. Hendley lias been occupied in modeling and i)ainting a 
large number of food specimens, and has repaired several lay iigures. 
He has also made casts of numerous archaeological and ethnological im- 
plements forthe dei)artments of prehistoric; anthropology and ethnology. 

Mr. Josei)h Palmer has made casts of fishes and re[)tiles, and of several 
Indian heads and busts. He has also thoroughly cleaned and repaired 
the casts of seals, ]torpoises, and reptiles returned from the New Orleans 
Exposition. 

(d) PlIOTOGIJAl'lIEU. 

Mr. T. W. Smillie re])orts that during the year G17 negatives have 
been added to the permanent files, the greater portion of which were 
distributed as follows : 

Ethnological and archaeological, ."359 ; lithological, 1 j mineralogical, 
74; ornithological, 3; metallurgical, 1*0; miscellaneous, 160. 

Three thousand two hundred and nineteen prints were made, as follows: 
Ethnological and archaeological, 1,317; mineralogical, 87; lithological, 
1; ornithological, 3 ; metallurgical, 58; fishing vessels, etc., 232; mis- 
cellaneous, 1,521. 

Jn addition, 770 blue prints and enlaigements were made, as follows: 
Cyanotypes (plans of working drawings ^f Museum cases, eto,)» 704} 
enlargements (medium size), G5; enlargements (4 feet by T feet], X, 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 49 

Eight pupils have been iustructed in i)hotogKiphy. 

Every facility is afforded these students for acquiring sufficient knowl- 
edge of photography to be of practical use to them in the lield. In ad 
dition to this, a hirge amount of routine work has been done, iiumber- 
ing and tiling of negatives, making up outlits for expeditions, etc. 

Negative paper has been adopted for field work, and in part' the use 
of bromi(h> paper for making enlargements. 

The following ap])aratus has been purchased : Two Franyais lenses 
for held work, one roll-holder, one balance. 

At the request of the Post-Office Department, Mr. Smillie was ordered, 
as an expert in testing inks, to test eleven cancelling and record inks for 
the IJepartment. As none of the inks were indelible, a comparative 
test was made and a report on their relative values submitted. Upon 
this report was based a decision for making contracts for ink during the 

coming year. 

(c) Artist. 

Mr. A. Zeno Shindler has painted 218 casts of Indian heads and sev- 
eral casts showing the anatomical structure of fishes. He has retouched 
27 Corean pictures, and has colored 33 photographs of machinery, In- 
dians, etc. lie has painted 110 casts of reptiles, mammals, fishes, mol- 
lusUs, etc. ne has also painted a collection of 23 Zufu masks, and per- 
formed a considerable amount of additional incidental work. 

(/) PiJp:PARAT01i IN THE iJp^PAltTMENT OF AKTS AND INDUSTRIES. 

Ml'. E. II. Ilawley has continued his work of preparing specimens for 
exhibition. This work is varied in character, including the repair of 
musical instruments, the framing of pictures, the arrangement of fibers 
and cloths in frames, the mounting of photographs, the installation of 
costumes. Considerable time has been devoted to the prex)aration of 
the various Japanese collections for exhibition. 

4, ACCESSIONS. 

The number of boxes and ])ackages received during the year was 
G,SD(), incliiding those which contained that portion of the objects ex- 
hibited at the New Orleans Exposition, which arrived in Washington 
after June 30, 1885. The nnmber of accessions represented by these 
packages was 1,40(3 (Nos. 10207-17701). 

The geograi)hical sources of these accessions is shown in detail in the 
geographical index to the list of accessions in Part V of this Ileport. 
It is thought proper also to present in this place a running review 
of the most important of the general collections. Every State and 
Territory of the United States, cxce[)ting the Indian Territory, is 
rei)resented in the list, and from the most of them have been received 
contributions to the departments of zoology, botany, mineralogy, and 
anthropology. IMany of the accessions are small, consisting of a single 
object or of a few specimens. 
H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 1 



50 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

GEOGKAPHICAI. REVIKW OF THK ACCKSSIONS. 

J Fine A. 

Several portions of tliis contiueut are represented in tiie IVIuseutn by 
small collections of material received from the Xew Orleans Ex[)osition. 
These are principally etbuoloj^ical, consisting of clothiu*;, mnsical in- 
struments, etc., and objects of art-work, such as carved brass trays, 
sami)les of leather-work, and stono carvings of Scarabeus. Twenty- 
three species of African mammals were received from the Museum of 
Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass., and a few birds. 

From x\lgeri;i we have five slabs of marble from the old Roman 
quarries, for many years lost sight of. 

An Egyptian mummy* in excellent state of preservation and ob- 
tained at Luxor, in Ui)per Egypt, by Hon. S. S. Cox, United States 
minister to Turkey, was piesented l)y him to the Museum. 

This mumn>y measures 5 feetG inches, is delicately proi^ortioned, and 
is altogether a very good specimen. No Lierogl^'phics or inscriptions 
ha\e thus far been found, either on the mummy or on the outer case, 
whicli is also in a good state of i)rescrvation. The face and head of the 
mummy are covered by a mask of green cement, the part covering the 
face being gilded. A black streak one-half inch wide extends down 
the cheeks and across the chin, from eye to eye. Side by side on the 
chest lie four small tablets about the size of playing-cards, each one 
having ui)on it a nmmmied figure of Osiris in a standing i)osition. 

Two sliield-shai)ed ornaments lie across the breast and stomach re- 
si)ectivcly5 the upper one has upon it the sacred beetle with spread 
wings, beneath which is a Nilometer standing between tlie two figures 
which supi)ort a globe upon the head. The faces of the figures are cov- 
ered by a square piece of gold-leaf; at the end of the wings is rei)re- 
resented the hawk head of Ra, also supporting a globe. Over the sur- 
face of the shield are painted representations of jewelry. On the lower 
figure appears a kneeling figure of Nepte, with extended arms and 
wings. She wears a head- baud upon her head, upon which rests a globe; 
on either side of the head of Nepto are two groups, each containing 
three small figures. Ostrich plumes appear in the corner of the shield. 
Along the leg of the mummy lies a sheet of linen, cemented ([)apier 
mache) at the top of which is a mummy on a dog-shaped bier. At the 
head of the bier is a kneeling figure, holding an ostrich i)lume. Relow 
this is a row of kneeling figures holding i)lumes. Further down is a 
second Nilometer, on either side of which a figure, with an implement in 
each hand, faces two mummied figures, both of which have the faces 
concealed with a square piece of gold-leaf. The feet are encased in a 
covering of cemented linen. 

Lieut. M. A. Shufeldt, U. S. Navy, contributed a collection of shells 
from Madagascar. 



'AcccssioL 17401. Sco Part V. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 51 

NORTH AMERICA. 

BEITISII AMEIUCA. 

Canada.—Among tbe objects received from the various provinces of 
Canada were bird-skius, minerals, ores, mammals, photographs of nat- 
ural scenery, ethnological material, etc. 

A large series of fossils, from the St. John group, was i)resented by 
Mr. W. D. Hamilton. 

Mr. G. ¥. Matthews presented hfty-three specimens of Cambrian fos- 
sils irom the St. John group. 

UNITED STATES. 

Alahania. — Interesting mineralogical and ethnological collections have 
been received from S. E. Johnson and Frank Burns, of the U. S. Geo- 
logical Survey, as well as various ores and minerals sent for examina. 
tion and report. 

AJasla. — From Fort Alexander, Mr. J. W. Johnson, Signal Service 
observer, sent an important collection of bird-skins (one hundred and 
live specimens) including skins of the recently discovered P?C6'fro^;/i(?»aj7 
hyperborcuSj also a collection of (piaternary fossils in clay concretions, as 
well as stone implements and objects illustrating the domestic life of 
the Eskimo. 

From Lieut. T. Dix Bolles, II. S. Navy, come an Eskimo mask, and 
various imi)lements and carvings, taken from graves of Shuani in south- 
eastern Alaska. 

From Henry D. Woolfe, in charge of the coaling station at Cape 
Lisburne, Alaska, belonging to the Pacific Steam "Whaling Company, 
have been received collections of great interest and of varied character, 
tull lists being given in Part Y; not the least interesting are the nests 
and eggs of several species of birds which breed in this remote locality. 

jNIr. Charles H. Townsend,an assistant of the U. S. Fish Commission, 
was sent to Alaska by the Commission to make some invesiigations 
into the fur-seal fisheries on the Pribyloft' Islands, and during his stay, 
through the courtCvSy of Captain Ilealy, he accompanied the United 
States revenue steamer Corivin to Ilotham Iidet. Thence in the steam- 
launch Mr. Townsend proceeded, under the guidance of Lieutenant 
Cantwell, to the mouth of the Kowak, and up the river to the head of 
navigation. On this occasion a large collection* of fishes, birds, mam- 
mals, and i)lants, together with a valuable series of ethnological ob- 
jects, was secured. 

The collection of birds is especially valuable, and among the rarest 
species may be mentioned : Tringa dmuacensis, an Asiatic sandpiper, new 
to the North American fauna ; Plcetrophcnax hjpcrhorcus, which was 
found breeding on Hall Island, in Bering Sea; a good series of thoUna- 

* Accession 1G914. 



52 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

lashka rock ptarmigan {Lago])Us rupestris nclsoni), and a imw s[)ecies of 
Cliickadeo from the Kowak liiver, lately described as Parus stoneyi. 

Dr. T. Hale Streets, assistant surgeon U. S. Navy, of the Coast Sur- 
vey steamer Carlisle Fatterson, sends collections of fishes and marine 
invertebrates from Alaska. 

The latter are referred to at length in the report of the curator of 
marine inventebrates. 

Mr. N. Grebnitzki, the llussian governor of Bering Island, has sent 
important zoological collections from the iiering and Commander Islands. 
These are referred to in the reports of the curators and in Part v. Es- 
pecially noteworthy are the skeletons of a ziphoid whale, XipMns Greb 
nitslcii, and of the Northern mountain sheep, Ovis nivicola.* 

ArJcansas. — Dr. J. Guy Lewis, of Little Eock, gives a number of valu- 
able minerals. C. F. Brown, of Hot Springs, also gives minerals 5 and 
W. W. Morrison sends a series of quartz crystals. In addition, various 
minerals and ores have been received for identification. 

Arizona. — Maj. J. W. Powell, Director of the Bureau of Ethnology, 
has placed in the Museum a large collection of pottery, stone-perforators, 
grooved axes, mortars, i)estles, griuding-stoues, rubbing-stones, arrow- 
shaft straighteners, stone carvings, bone whistles, and paint-stones, ob- 
tained by Col. James Stevenson. 

Mr. E. W. Nelson, formerly connected with the Museum, now living at 
Springerville, Arizona, has sent in interesting archaeological specimens 
from the headwaters of the San Francisco River. These are described 
in the report of the curator of archaeology. 

Eoswcll Wheeler, jr., of Sacaton, has sent some rare birds' eggs. 

Dr. B. J. D. Irwin contributed a skull of a bay lynx and also an In- 
dian strainer used by Apache Indians in the prei)aration of "tiswin," 
an intoxicating drink made from the mescal plant. 

A collection of seventy-fivo specimens of stone implements was ob- 
tained by purchase from J. U. Carlton, of Fort lliomas. 

Maj. Anson Mills, U. S. Army, Tenth Cavalry, sends living specimens 
of the Gila monster, Edoderma suspectum. 

California.— ihic of the most interesting contributions from this State 
was that sent by Lieut. P. II. Bay, U. S. Army, illustrative of the do- 
mestic arts and industries of the Indians of Hooim Valley. This is the 
subject of a special illustrated paper by Professor Mason, and a <les(*rip- 
tive list of the one hundred and twenty-six objects in this collection is 
given in Part V.t 

Lieut. L. W. Green, of Baird, Cal., obtained a series of tools used by 
Shasta Indians in making bows and arrows, with specimens of their 
work. 

C. B. Orcutt, of San Diego, sent fossil argouauta in indurated clay 
from southern California. A large number of horned lizards, Phry- 
nosonia coronatunij was obtained by Miss Bosa Smith, of San Diego. 



* Accession 1(3878. t Accession 17231). 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 53 

Gustav Eiseu, of Fresno, lias sent interesting fishes and birds. C. H. 
Townsend contribnted bones of whales and dolphins obtained at San 
Luis Obispo. Many zoological and mineralogical specimens were also 
received for identification. 

Colorado. — Si)ecimens of Zuneite were received from W. F. Ilille- 
brand, of the U. S. Geological Survey, wlio also sent some examples of 
argyrodite, obtained from Himmelsfurst in Saxony, and from which was 
obtained the new metal Germanium. William F. Doty, of Durango, 
Dr. William Hall, of Central City, Louis E. Sharpe, of LeadviHo, O. IT. 
Hahn, of South Pueblo, and others, send minerals and ores. LL A. 
Tamen, of Denver, presented his "Rocky I^Iountain Mineral Cabinet," 
containing some very interesting specimens. 

James L. Foley i)resented a specimen of Williamson's white fish from 
Wiiite Eiver, and a botanical specimen for idcntitlcatiou. 

Connecticut. — A. F. Wooster, of Norfolk, contributed brook trout, 
melanistic examples of star-nosed mole, Comlylura, and tlio horned owl. 
Bubo virginianus. ITo also sent a stone ax, and a brass idol from Japan. 
Lewis T>. Woodruff contributed bird skins and a number of sets of birds' 
eggs. E. B. Iloilge, of Plymouth, N. II., sends a remai^kable specimen 
of the brook-trout, SalvcUm(.'i, allied to the blue-blacked trout of north- 
ern New England, whose relation-s have not yet been thoroughly inves- 
tigated. 
From George W. Lendereg, of Roxbury, were received minerals. 
Daliota. — From this State only minerals have been received, and from 
the following j)ersons : II. E. Fleming, of Mandarin j II. T. Brown, of 
Ponca ; S. II. Buchanan, of Custer City, and Samuel Scott, of Rapid 
City. 

District of Columbia. — Capt. Thomas W. Symous, LI. S. Army, assist- 
ant engineer of the District, gives a rock drill of the kind used in the 
construction of the Washington aqueduct tunnel. George P. Merrill, 
of the National Museum, Prof. Thomas Robinson, of Howard University, 
and Dr. William S. Mcllhenny, present minerals. 

James Watson sent specimens of ibssil wood from the reservoir cut- 
ting near Howard University. 

T. E. Skinner and Clarence Burke send specimens of birds. Charles 
W. Richmond presented the nests of fourteen speci(;s of birds. Milton 
Smifh gave a small mammal, and J. U. Kuehling, Charles A. Bruff, and 
H. W- Henshaw, of the U, S. Geological Survey, contributed serpents. 
Florida. — Prof. O. P. Hay, of Indiana University, gave a collection of 
fishes, J. H, Batty and E. C. Gieenwood presented a specimen of the 
young of the new sub-species of owl, Si/rnium nehulosum allent, a form 
new to the collection. ]\Ir. Greenwood also sends several birds from the 
Thousand Islands. Dr. B. II. Warren, of West Chester, Pa., sent a col- 
lection of insects, mostly Dipter:i, and George W. Roberts, of the same 
[)lace, contributed a collection of bird skins. Several desirable forma 
were ])urchased from C. .1. Shiyniird, of Boston. 



54 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Charles T. Simpson sent a collection of marine sliells, one hundred 
and eight species, and other similar contributions from Boca Ciega Bay 
were received from the U. S. Geological Survey. 

From Dr, J. C. Neal, of Archer, was obtained a collection of fossils. 
He also sent some Indian beads from a mound. 

John Iv. Jones, of Tampa, and Hon. W. 11. Sebring contribute some 
invertebrates, and Mr. Joseph Wilcox, of Media, Pa., sends a very in 
teresting collection of chippcdstone implements from the month of the 
Chcsowishka River. 

S. F. Walker, of Milton, and T. A. Britt, of Jacksonville, presented 
minerals. 

Gcor(jia. — Specimens of stalagmitic deposit containing bones of mam 
mals from Todd's lime-kiln quarry near Cartersville, were presented by 
the U. S. Geological Survey. Fossil teeth of a horse and a skeleton o( 
snake from the same locality were lent for examination by John P. 
Bogan, 

From T. D. Perry, of Savannah, and W. B. Joliuston, of Macon, were 
received zoological specimens. 

Henry Weidenbach, of Washington, i)resented archaeological objects 
from Fairfax County. Minerals and ore:^ were sent by William Beal, of 
Murphy, K C, N. P. Pratt, of Atlanta, and J. P. EIrod, of Jeft'ersou. 

7(/a/<o.— From Francis Jeiferey, of Ketchum, were received samples 
of the so called American jute, proposed as a substitute for tlie jute of 
commerce. This is probably a species of rush, Scirpus validus. 

Col. J. S. Shoup, of Salmon City, sends a large and valuable collec- 
tion of ores of tlie Territory ; and C. Overman, Josej)!! Uostetter, and 
T. J. Turjiin, of Grange ville, send minerals. 

From Capt. J. M. Lee, U. S. Army, of the Ninth Infantry, acting In- 
dian agent at Darlington, w'ere obtained two sets of bows and arrows 
from the Arapahoe and Cheyenne Indians. These form a very impor- 
tant addition to the collection. 

Illinois. — During a vacation trip to Bichmoiul County Mr. Kobert 
Bidgway, curator of birds in the National Museum, obtained a valua- 
ble collection of birds, nests, and eggs. Zoological contributions were 
also made by J. Schneck,of JMount Carmel; J. P. Leach, of llushville ; 
John K. Walker, of Rushville; O. P. Rogers, of JMarengo ; F. B. Hoke, 
of Cordova, and H. G. Hodge, of York, who also sent an interesting 
collection of the fruits and woods of native trees. 

C. Armstrong, of Carrollton, made an arclneological contribution, and 
A. K. Abbott, of Union Grove, sent specimens illustrating the forma- 
tion of fulgurites. 

Indiana. — A large number of archaeological objects obtained in this 
State were forwarded to the ]\Iuseum, tlie most notable being those sent 
by J. R. Nivssley, of Mansfield, Ohio; George Spangler, of Madison; 
George A. Becker, of South Bend; B. F. Stalker, of New Providence; 
A. C. Bkick, of Washijigton, 1). C, ami Dr. F. C. Black, of Wheatland. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 55 

Collectious of a similar character were also received from Col. J. T. 
Abert, of tlie Engineer Corps, Washington, D. C, and from B. W. Ever- 
mann, of Indiana University. 

Gaological specimens were contributed by O. A. Blackman, N. W. 
Wood, and O. Whitcomb, of Leavenworth, and a collection of coal plants 
by Fletcher M. Noe, of Indianapolis. Some interesting fishes were sent 
by Prof. David S. Jordan, jiresident of Indiana University. 

Joica. — J. W. Presion, of Baxter, and li. J. llaiglit, of Davenport, 
sent zoological specimens. 

From the Charles City IMarble Comiiany was received a beautiful 
s])ecimeu of the so-called madrepore marble, a form of ornamental stone 
not hitherto known in the arts. 

Kansas. — Bcptiles from southern Kansas have beeu received from 
Charles Kuby, U. S. Army, stationed at Fort D. A. Russell, Wyo. 
Various zoological specimens Lave also beeu received from A. M. Fuller, 
of Lawrence ; E. Bumgardner, of Holtou, and Warren Kenans, of Selina. 
Dr. W. S. Xewlou, of Oswego, has sent moUnsks from the Xeosho ]tiver 
and neighboring streams for identification. From A. B. Baker, of 
Banner, Trego Couutj', were purchased skeletons of the black-footed 
ferret, Futorins nigrii)cs^ one of the rarest of American mammals. 

Dr. A. C. Peale, of the U. S. Geological Survey, sends an interest- 
ing contribution to the department of physical geology, and Dr. A. li. 
Chase, of Millwood, contributes bones and teeth of mastodon obtained 
at a <lepth of 30 feet below tlie surface. Fossil shells were sent by 
Lvobert Jlay, of Junction City. 

Kentuckij. — Zoological specimens were ppesented by Mrs. l^icllar(l 
Carter, of Cloverport, and T. 11. Morgan, of Lexington. 

Prof. J. It. Procter, director of the Geological Survey of Kentucky, 
presents a large collection illustrating the (;oal formation of the State, 
including eight carefully prepared groups of specimens showing sec- 
tions of different veins. Geological specimens were iilso leceived from 
M. E. Morgan, of Gratz. Kentucky Q. Smith (Gerard Fowke) sent 
two collections of archaeological objects. 

Louisiana. — C. J. Barrows, commissioner for Louisiana at the New 
Orleans Ex])osiiiou, presented an exceedingly interesting collection of 
the clothing and weapons of the Shetimasha Indians, including several 
of their curious blow-pipes, used for the propulsion of arrows — the 
only weapons of the kind found among natives of North America; also 
sami)les of basketry from the Choctaw Indians; corn-husk basketry 
made by the negroes, and specimens of nankeen cotton and decorticated 
moss fabrics. 

Minerals were received from S. IL Houston, of New Orleans. John 
M. Avery, of New Iberia, who has made many valuable contributions 
to the Museum from the salt v/orks on the island of Pelit Anse, i>re- 
sents beautiful si)ecimens of salt illustrating cleavage. 

ilf«m^.— Samples of basketry from the Passama<juoddy Indians were 
received from IMrs. Fannie Fattangal, of Washington, D. C. 



50 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Mineral collections were contributetl by George P. Merrill, of tbe 
National Museum ; T. T. Lamb, of Portland ; K IJ. Berry, of Soutb 
Paris ; U. M. Moling, of Portland, and E. M. liailey, of Audover. 

William Herrick, of Swan's Island, contributed some fishes and sea- 
snails. 

Maryland. — A large number of birds and other zoological specimens 
from various places in this State were sent by Dr. T, If. Bean, IJ. S. 
National IMuseum ; George L. Meazell, of Middlebrook ; John P. Ilam 
lin, of Washington, D. G. ; George Marshall, of Laurel ; H. M. Smith. 
U. S. National Museum ; L. M. Turner, Smithsonian Institution ; J. D. 
Farden, of AVashington ; Gwynn Harris, of Washington, D. C, and J. 
n. Tolbcrt, of Havre de Grace. 

Geologi<jal contributions were received from Michael Dooley, of Lon- 
aconing ; Dr. F. M. Chatard, of Baltimore, and 0. E. Coflin, of Muir- 
kirk. 

A collection of coins of the United States, Germany, Great Britain, 
and Ireland was obtained from Palph Collier, of Laurel. 

Massachusetts. — An exchange of rocks was elfected by Mr. G. P. 
Merrill with Prof. W. O. Crosby, of Boston, and with Prof. B. K. Emer- 
son, of Amherst. Mr. C. W. Chamberlain, of Boston ; Mr. E. C. Green- 
wood, of Nantucket; and Mr. Willard Nye, jr., of i>'ew Bedford, con- 
tributed birds. Mr. J. Uenry Blake, of Cambridge, sent parasitic cope- 
j)ods from Provincetown. From Captain Doane, Mr. Henry M. Low, of 
Ivockport, and Mr. AV. A. Wilcox, of Gloucester, were received fish. A 
grooved stone implement from Vineyard Haven was sent by Mr. 
Thomas Lee, of the U. S. Fish Commission. Specimens of feather-work, 
wliich had been exhibited at the New Orleans Exj)osition, were received 
from Milton J. Flood, ot Sterling. Mr. William ]}rewster, of Cam- 
bridge, forwarded bird-skins for examination and report. 

Michifjan. — Geological specimens were received from F. W. Noble, of 
Detroit. 

An interesting series of materia medica specimens was sent by Fred- 
erick Stearns & Co., of Detroit. 

A. R. Dodge, of East Saginaw, presented a specimiMi of Eimine, 
Putorius C7'minea, in the flesh. 

Minnesota. — A collection of minerals and rocks, exhibited a( the New 
Orlea)is Exposition by the State of Minnesota, was afterwards i)resented 
to the National Museum by Prof. N. H. Winchell, of Saint Paul, who 
also sent a specimen of Duluth gabbro. From II. D. Gurney, of Saint 
Paul, were received samples of red granite. 

Jirississippi. — An interesting series of specim(Mis illustrating negro 
manufacture, exhibited at the New Orleans Exposition, was presented 
by General Stephen D. Lee and Professor Phares. 

A botanical contribution was received IVom lion. James L. George, 
United States Senator. 

Fossils from the Colorado group oC the Cretaceous were sent by Miss 
May Halstead, of Lexington. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 57 

Harvey O. Mcdford, of Tupelo, sent minerals and fibers for examina- 
tion ; and S. S. Mitchell, of Columbus, presented samples of sandstone. 

Missouri. — Zoological specimens were received from J. G. W. Steed- 
man, of Saint Louis, and F. A. Lampson, of Sedalia. 

Fossii shells were sent by Wiley Brittain, of Springfield. 

A stone idol was transmitted by T. L. Whiteliead, of Dexter, for ex- 
amination. 

P>. A. Shepley, of Des Arc, gives mineral specimens. 

Montana. — The most important contributions were made by Captain 
CUas. E. Bendire, who sent thirty-one bird-skins from Fort Custer, a 
revolver found on the site of the Custer massacre in 187G, and some in- 
teresting concretions. 

Lead, silver, copper, and other ores were received from Jolm S. LTar- 
ris, of Helena; W. A. Clark, of Butte; F. J. Parker, of Washington, 
and Bush & Meyert^, of Sheridan. 

Ncbrasla. — Xothing of special importance was received. W. C. 
Knight, of Lincoln, sent a bird-skin. S. F. Fleharty, of Antelopeville, 
contributed fossil bones of horse, and Jerome AViltse, of Falls City, sent 
an Indian implement. 

Nevada. — A valuable collection of Trenton fossils (2,183 specimens) 
collected by C. D. Walcott, ot v/hich a full list is given in Partv umler 
ace. 17-117, has been received from the U. S. Geologi(;al Survey, and also 
specimens of silver ore from the Kaymond and Ely mine at Pioche. 
W. M. Havenor, acting commissioner for this State at the New Or- 
leans Exposition, presented ores and mining ])ictures, and also an inter 
p>ting series of implements, including a. jug, baskelry, and cradles, 
made by the Ute Indians. 

Hon. R. W. Furnas, commissioner for Nevada at the New Orleans 
Ex})osition, sent i)lants. 

New UampsJiire. — From C. IT. Ilitcdicock, of Hanover, comes a large 
collection of rocks, and also a vertical column of slate, showing the 
relative age and comparative thickness of the Arclm?,an, (yambrian, ami 
Silurian formations. 

Fishes were received from E. P. Hodge, of Plymouth, and I. 1^. IMil- 
ler, of Portsmouth. 

W. IT. Fox, of Wasiiington, contributed several specimens of b.irds. 

Neu) Jersey. — An extensive collection of carboniferous fossils, made 
by C. I). Walcott, numbering three hundred and eighteen specinuMis, 
was received from the U. S. Geological Survey. 

Zoological sj)ecimens were obtained from J. M. C. Eaton, of Irving- 
ton, and W. L. Green, keeper of Long Branch life saving station. 

From C. L Grimm, of Tjoveladies Island, was obtained a whale, Ko(/ia 
hreviceps. 

The Pennsylvania Railroad Company, through J. M Watkins, honoj-- 
ary curator of steam transportation in the National Museum, }»re 
seuted drawings, sections of iron rails, castings, etc. 



58 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886 

Mineralogical material came from Prof. George J.Cook, of New Bruns- 
wick, from the Bloorningdale Grapliitc Company, and from George P. 
Merrill, of the National Museum. 

Ten argillite implements, found by Dr. C. C. Abbott in a gravel bed 
at Trenton, were jiresented by Dr. Charles Itau, curator of archreology 
in the National Museum. 

jN'C/o Mexico. — Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U. S. Army, stationed at Fort 
Wingate, has made very extensive gifts to the departments of mam- 
mals, birds, and reptiles. 

Mr. J. B. Bowman, of Aleman, has sent numerous birds. 

The geological departments iu the Museum have been enriched with 
one hundred and eight specimens of turquois from the U. S. Geolog- 
ical Survey ; silver and iron ores from Professor Spatcier, of Las Cruces ; 
obsidian from the commissioner of New Mexico at the New Orleans Ex- 
position, and meteoric iron from Albuquerque, sent by L. G. Eakins, of 
Denver, Colo. Fred Vv'. Taylor, of Lake Valley, sent pressed sulphide 
of silver, in the form iu which silver is recovered from the leeching 
solution. 

New Yoz-Zr.— Zoological contributions were made by Dr. C. S. Mc- 
Knight, of Saranac Lake ; Dwight D. Stone, of New York ; S. E. Meek, 
of Cayuga; James T. Walker, of Palmyra; A. G. Cheney, of Glens 
Falls; F. C. Jessup, keeper of Petunk Life-Saving Station; and Mrs. 
F. L. Lee, of Westport, 

Ores and minerals were received from Charles Miller, of Sanborn, who 
also sent fossil shells; L. W. Lcdyard, Cazenovia; and George W. 
Watkius. Miss Mary E. Mann sent samples of deposit from Geyser 
Springs, Saratoga. 

Fossil plants from Allegany County were received from AVilliam IT. 
Dall. It. E. C. Stearns also sent fossils. 

A necklace of wampum beads, representing the work of the Mohawk 
Indians, w^as presented by Prof. OtisT. Mason. 

A remarkable stone carving, representing a human head, was given 
by the Natural Science Association of Staten Island. 

North Caroi'irta.— Zoological specimens were sent by Dr. H. C. Yarrow, 
U. S. Army, honorary curator of the department of reptiles; Wi-lliam 
Brewster, of Cambridge, INlass., and Mrs. II. K. Morrison, of IMorgan- 
town. The Wilmington Oil and Leather Company presented skulls of 
a i)orpoise, Tursiops tursio. 

Ores of various kinds wore received from C. II. Waring, of Kuoxvillc, 
Tenn. ; Col. P.M. Wilson, of lialeigh ; S. M. Dagger, of Banner's Elk, 
and Robert Clay well, of Morgan town. 

Indian implements were contributed by Dr. J. M. Spainhour, of 
Lenoir; J. C. liussell, of Uichmond, Va., i)resented a " puller," an im- 
implement used (in North Carolina) for chopping pine trees. 

Ohio. — William Kayser, of Wa]irikoneta, sent some phyllopod crus- 
taceans. John S. Pollock, of the Smithsonian Institution, presented a 



KEPORT OF ASSISTANT SP:CRETARY. 59 

box tortoise, Cistudo Carolina. Specimens of moths, etc., were sent for 
examination. 

The archaeological accessions were among the most important from 
this State. T. F. Spaugler sent flint implements. H. C. Duvall, of 
Washington, sent a pierced tablet. Ceremonial and other objects were 
received from Dr. L. B.Welch, of Wilmington, and from Kentucky Q. 
Smith. 

Oregon. — Ores and niinerals were received from J, C. Swash, of Union; 
Allen D. Wolcott, of Randolph 5 and F. J. Parker, of Washington, 1). C. 
William IJ. Dall presented a cap and woven basket made by the 
Rugne Indians. 

A collection of fossils for examination and report was forwarded by 
H. E. Dore, of Portland. 

Pennsxjlvania. — Zoological contributions came from S. M. Sener, of 
Lancaster; F. G. Galbraith, of Wrightvillo; Dr. A. Van Cleef, of Scran- 
ton, who also sent sam^des of coal formation; and George W. ]ioberts, 
of West Chester. 

Several important lots of geological material were received, notably, 
from Joseph W. Wilcox, of Media; Capt. John J. Williams, of Thurslow; 
H. M. Ingranj, of the National Museum; P. P. Janus, of Washington; 
and Henry J. P>iddle. 

Interesting archaeological objects came from Dr. T. U. Bean, of the 
National Museum; A. F. Wooster, of Norfolk, Conn,; and A. F. Ber- 
lin, of Allentown. 

A box of invertebrate fossils was sent by P. P. Sliarpless, of PhoB- 
nixville. 

John W. Brock sent si)ecimens of fossil corn from the slope of the 
mine of the Lehigh Coal and Navigation Company. 

George W. Snyder, of Somerset, sent a collection of Pennsylvania 
State bank bills. 

Rhode IsUmd. — Joseph Wharton, of Newport, and E. G. Blackford, of 
Fulton ]\larket, New York, sent fishes, and If. C. Bumpus, of Provi- 
dence, presented reptiles. 

The Newport .Natural History Society sent mortar from an old tower 
at Newport. 

South Carolina. — Arthur T. Wayne, of Charleston, sent a specimen of 
Swainson's Warbler, Uelinaia sivainsoni, x\'ith nest and eggs. 

Geological material was sent by W. F. Chaplin and F. A. Schefiier, of 
Orangeburgh, for examination and report. 

The U. S. Geological Survey, through Frank Burns, sent fossil wood 
and berries; also bricks from a corner-stone of the old court-house in 
Orangeburgh, and two mullers. 

Tennessee. — Ornithological s])ecimens were sent by James ^V. Pogan, 
of Rogersville. P. Ellsworth Call presents mollusks. 

Ores and minerals were received from the U. S. Geological Survey; 
William Beall, of Murphy; A. J. McWliirrer, of Na.shville ; C. H. War- 



60 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

iug, of Kuoxville; G. C. II offmeister, of Mossy Creek; and Dr. J. Ber- 
rein Lindsley. 

C. D. Walcott and Frank Burns, of the U. !S. Geological Survey, pre- 
sented fossils; and James W. Eogan, of Eogersville, and John T. Irwin, 
of Paris, sent botanical specimens. 

Texas. — Zoological specimens from this State were received from 
Thomas Mcllwraith, of Hamilton, Ontario, Ganada, and Col. A. G. 
Brackett, U. S. Army, of Fort Davis. 

Geological material was sent by W. 11. Stephens, of Hiner; D. H. 
Gibson, of Mineral Wella ; Larkin King, of San Saba, and Dr. G. P. 
Uachenberg, of Austin. 

An interesting leaf-sbai^ed imi)lement of brown jasper, from the Ghe- 
note Mountains, was presented by Thomas li. Stewart, of Presidio. 

Fossils were transmitted by Capt. W. 11. Glapj), U. S. Army, of Fort 
Stockton, and botanical specimens by Dr. W. Thornton Parker, of New- 
port, II. I. 

Utah. — An interesting series of thirty-one articles collected by Dr. 
H. C. Yarrow, U. S. Army, among the Gosh Cites, w^as added to the 
ethnological collection. This consisted of baskets, berry-wands, mocca- 
sins, basket-hat, water -jars, doll, leather bag, and cradle-back. 

Fossil plants from Wales, collected by Dr. G. A. White, were pre- 
sented by the U. S. Geological Survey. 

Several geological specimens were forwarded for examination and 
report. 

Vermont. — Geological material was sent for examination and report. 

Virginia. — Forty-two accessions of various kinds were received from 
this State. 

From the Wytheville hatchery of the U. S. Fish Gommission come 
specimens of California Mountain Trout and Penobscot Salmon. Col. 
Marshall McDonald sent several large and varied collections of fishes, 
insects, mollusks, invertebrates, reptiles, and two mammals. Other 
contributions of fishes were received from James Godden, ]\Iaurice 
Cropley, who also sent a star-fish, Asterias forhesii, Gwynn ITarris, of 
Washington, W. Yeatman, keeper of the light-house at Point Lookout, 
Md., and Thomas Lewis, of Eoanoke. Lucien M. Turner, William 
Palmer, of the National Museum, and U. P. Hoare, of Plupbus, sent 
reptih^s. Birds were presented by John Dowell, of Washington, James 
Deane, of Alexandria, and Eussell Eobinson, of Eichmond. Eobert 
Eidgway, of the National Museum, contributed a nest of the Blue Gros 
beak, Guiraca cccrulca. Howard Shriver, of Wytheville, Frank P. (lold, 
of Eest, and John S. Webb, of Totaro, sent insects. Prof. I. U. Mor- 
rison, of Lexington, contributed specimens of snail-shell, HcUx horiensin. 
This locality is new for this species. A. B. Johnson, of the Light-J lonso 
Board, sent a section of a pile from a wharf at Cape Henry, completely 
riddled by the boring of the shii> worm. Teredo navalis. 

Fossil coal, from the Piedtnonl, district, was received from Court 
Hamilton, of Bunker Hill, W. Ya. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 61 

All interesting collection of minerals, numbering one hundred and 
tliirt.v-eigbt specimens, came from Prof. M. B. Hardin, of the Virginia 
Military Institute at Lexington. Minerals ^yere also received from 
Myron B. W. Hough, of Washington, P. W. True, of the National 
Museum, I). W. M. Wright, of Holly Brook, J. H. Brumwell, of Eoa- 
noke, and J. IJ. JMitchell, of Philadelphia. Henry Horan, of the Na- 
tional Museum, gave a specimen of stalagniitic marble from the Luray 
Cave. 

H. M. Smith, of the National Museum, i)reseuted canister shot and 
minie-balls from the battlefield of Bull lluu, and Capt. C W. Dun- 
nington, of the National Museum, added to the historical collection a 
military pass to Fredericksburgh, dated Septend)er2, 18G1, and signed 
by John Letcher, governor of Virginia. 

Washington Tcrriiorjj. — Zoological specimens were received from 
Lieut. H. E. Nichols, U. S. Navy, li. D. Nevins, of Olympia, and Dr. 
Basil Norris, JJ. S. x\rmy. James G. Swan forwarded mollusks and 
marine invertebrates from Cape Flattery, and a sample of i)archment 
composed of kelp, aiul prepared for printing. 

John W. McGee, of Seattle, John J, Burns, of Sprague, and I. A. 
Crawford, of Spokane Falls, forwarded minerals and ores. Similar 
materhil for examination and re[)ort was also received from several in- 
dividuals. 

West Virginia. — Specimens ttf Microptcnis dolomieu and AmblopUtes 
riqjcstris from Fairraount were collected b^^ the Fish Commission. 

Geological material was presented by Maj. Jed. Hotchkiss, of Staun- 
ron Va,, Frank Smith, of Cincinnati, Ohio, and Timothy Nihon, of 
Hedgesville. Minerals and ores were sent for examination and report. 

Wisconsin. — A collection of three hundred and thirty-nine Trenton 
fossils was given by H. C. Powers, of Beloit. 

J. L. De Witt, of Newton, presented two drilled bear's teeth, two bone 
ornaments, two small sheets of native silver, shaped by beating, and 
six cylindrical copper beads from a mound at Warner's Landing. The 
sheets of silver are of special interest, and are the first specimens of the 
kind in the possession of the Museum. 

Wyoming. — Insects were received from N. H. Brown, of Lauder, and 
ummmals from Charles Buby, U. S. Army, stationed at Fort D. A. 
Russell. 

CENTRAL AMERICA. 

From the Central American states were received minerals, bird skins, 
insects, etc. 

Mr. Harry Stewart, of Nicaragua, contributed two ancient inni stir- 
rups, and a number of wooden crosses obtained in an ancient grave- 
yard. 

From Nicaragua were also receiveei a i)l()W and yolce, and a colled ii)n 
of ethnological objects, pottery, etc. 



62 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

From Yucatan a collection of one Lundred and thirteen bird skins, 
including a new S'pccies, was sent by George F. Gaumer. 

Specimens of reptiles and insects were received from Panama. 



INIr. Louis 11. Ayuie forwarded ethnological material, stone carvings, 
and pottery, as the results of his investigations in Yucatan and Mexico. 

From Mr. E. Wilkinson was received a collection of reptiles embrac- 
ing four hundred and seventy-one specimens, and also two mammal 
skins. 

Prof. Alfred Dug^s transmitted several collections of objects of natu- 
ral history, including niaitiuuils, bird skins, reptiles, ores, insects, and 
plants. 

The commission representing the Mexican Government at the Xew 
Orleans Exposition transferred to the Museum a large collection of 
gums, dyes, foods, animal products, ores, baskets, textiles, etc. 

Hon. Warner P. Sutton, United States consul, contributed two stone 
mortars and a musical instrument. 

" From the Mexican Geographical and Exploring Commission was re- 
ceived an interesting series of ninety-five specimens (fifty-nine species) 
of bird skins. This contribution formed a part of the Mexican Govern- 
ment exhil)it at New Orleans, and contains five species new to the Mu- 
seum collection. 

Specimens of gold, silver, and copper ores were received from several 
of the Mexican States. 

WEST INDIES. 

Mrs. C. H. Dall contributed a collection of fifty specimens, fifteen 
species, of marine shells. 

The U. S. Fish Commission steamer AlbatrosH, in a cruise among the 
Bermuda and Bahama Islands, secure<l nine hundred and fifty speci- 
mens of bird skins, and also a number of archaeological implements, etc., 
including polished celts, chisels, rubbing stones, and pendants. 

The natural history of the islands is represented by numerous con- 
tributions of mollusca, marine invertebrates, reptiles, insects, mammals, 
fishes, birds, etc. 

From other contributors, minerals, Crustacea, fishes, materia medica, 
and reptiles were received. 

Professor Poey sent specimens of Cuban fishes. 

SOUTH AMI'JniCA. 

From Brazil were received a series of fibers and also a collection of 
the various woods of that country. 

A collection of thirteen reptiles from Ecuador was presented. 

From Venezuela a collection of bird skins, including twoiity-one 
specimens, thirteen species ; also a small collection of bird skins from 



REPORT OV ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 63 

Brazil auil Peru, and a few tspeciincus of binls, nuiiiiuials, seed, uud 
a fish-trap used by the natives of VenezueUi. 

ASIA. 

Commodore li. W. Shiifeldt, U. S. Navy, presented a Damascus sword 
and eight knives mounted in ivory and gokl, of Arab manufacture, from 
Muscat, given to him by the Sultan of Zanzibar. N. Carandonis de- 
j)osited a Grecian bowl from an Ephesian tomb, and an ancient costume 
lound in a cavern at the castle on the island of Calumnos. Mr. Otis 
Bigelow i)resents a considerable collection of ethnological objects from 
Egypt and tlie Holy Land. Other objects of similar character were re- 
ceived from the Department of State after the close of the New Orleans 
Exposition, as was also an important collection of minerals from Teherau, 
Persia. 

Mr. William IF. Dallpresents a model of a Madras catamaran, obtained 
by llev. C. II. A. Dall, and other articles from India. I\Ir. A. G. Studer, 
U. S. consul at Singapore, sent through the State Department the im- 
plements and materials nsed by those who chew tbe betel-nut, and also 
a collection of the native woods oC Singapore. 

Various single objects and small collections, ethnological and zoolog- 
ical, from other portions of the I<]ast Indies, were received from different 
individuals. 

From China the accessions were f(^r tlie most part obtained through 
the State Department after the close of the New Orleans Exposition, 
and included a number of interesting products of the native arts, and a 
series of si)ecimens illustrating the ramie industry of that country. 
Dr. Bethune McCarthy, foi' nearly half a century a medical missionary in 
China and Japan, has given and deposited a small but very useful and 
interesting collection of books, pictures, and other objects. 

From Corea, Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. Navy, obtained a large and 
valuable collection, including fishes, marine invertebrates, cephalopods, 
pottery, ethnological material, and drugs. Some of the pottery in this 
collection is said to be from three hundred to seven liundred years old. 

In addition to this collection three specimens of lacquered ware — cup, 
can, and tube — which were exhibited at the New Orleans Exposition, 
were added to the ethnological collection. 

From Jai>an was received a co!kM;tion of minerals presented by Gen- 
eral Thomas B. Van Buren, U. S. consul at Kanagawa. 

A very beautiful helmet of silver, with bosses of steel and with leather 
cape, lined with endjroidered silk, was presented by D. W. Zantzinger, 
of AVashington. 

An interesting series of bird-skins from Japan was given by Heurj- 
Seel)olim, of London, besides variou ; smaller collections. The most 
important of all the accessions from Japan was a most instructive series 
of ninety-two specimens, illustrating tlie manufacture of pottery and 
porcelain, showing the materials, ai)pliances, the objects in various 



64 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

stiigca of iiuiimiat'tare, aiul the liual product.s. Tiiis, t()i,'et!ier with a 
detailed cataio.niie, was sent by the Department of Edueatiuu in Tokyo, 
and is referred to at length in Part v, nnder accession 17339. 

EUROPE. 



The Austrian exhibit at the New Orleans Exposition, consisting of 
textile goods, dried fungi (one hundred specimens), grains, foods, and 
musical instruments, was transferred to tiie National INIuseum. 

UELOIUM. 

Eleven geological nuips were received from the Belgian Commissiou 
at the New Orleans Exhibitiou. 

ENGLAND. 

A most interesting addition was an " exchequer tally " presented by 
A. W. Franks, esq., of the British Museum, and referred to in Part V, 
under accession 0G213. 

• This was used by the court of exchequer of England as a record of and 
receipt for monej' loaned to or by the Government. Tally sticks circu- 
lated as money in England in 1G97. The tally now i)resented is for 
£100,000, in part ])rincipal of the loan of £1,400,000 from (xovernment, 
and for £0,0-19 Qs. 3d. for interest thereon, due September 30, 177G. 
Paid November 28, 1776.* 

* The Saxon kings of Euglund kept the record of their public accounts on notched, 
.sticks, and (ho same Kysteni of registering loans was in'actised by the Court of Ex- 
chequer until the year 1783, when by Act of Parliament, nnder George III, a new 
method was adopted. 

A supply of hazel, ash, or willow sticks was kept for the use of the Treasury ; when 
seasoned and prepared, notches were made on one side by the cutter of tallies, and 
Roman numerals wexn inscribed on the opposite side by the writer of tallies. The 
notches were made of different sizes to represent pounds, shillings, pence, and a hun- 
dred or even a thousand {)onnds. The stick was then split through the center by the 
Deputy Chamberlain, with a knife and mallet ; one portion being called a tally, or the 
scacha, stipes, or kaucia, and the other portion the counter-tally, or folium. The 
date of the deposit or credit and that when payment would fall due, and the name of 
the ])erson having the claim npon the Treasury was also inscribed upon the tally. 
When payment was due, the counter-tally was presented at the Treasury, and, if it 
littod with the tally the money was paid, and the two jjarts put together and tiled 
away as a permanent record of settlement. 

In HVJ", while the metallic currency of England was being recoined, there was a 
great scarcity of currency, and exchequer tally sticks were put in general circulation 
as money. The regular currency, also the exchequer tallies, depreciated greatly. 
The Bank of England advertised a new loan of £1,0U0,000, offering totake 80 per cent, 
of the same in tally sticks, and this relieved the Government of £800,000 outstanding 
promises to pay, which became due tI»o Bank, an easy creditor of the King. 

In 1834, by order of Parliament, the great quantity of tallies which had accnmu- 
l.-ited in hundreds of years were burned in the stoves at the Hou.so of Lords, and, un- 
fortunately, the great heat set fire to the building and consumed the Houses of Parlia- 
ment, October IG, 1834. 



EEPOKT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 65 

Several large collections of pottery, exhibited at New Orleans, were 
afterwards sent to the Museum. 

Mr. Edward Hargitt contributed bird skins. 

By exchange with K. Bowdler Sharpe, esq., of London, the Museum 
has obtained three hundred and twelve specimens (one hundred and 
forty-nine species) of birds, chiefly new to the collection, and for the 
most part from Turkey, France, South Africa, Asia Minor, India, Eng- 
land, Malay Peninsula, Borneo, Pegu, British Burmah, Timor Laiit, 
Papua, Australia, Brazil, and Peru. 

Minerals, fishes, and materia medica specimens also added to the 
Museum collections. 



Mr. Thomas Wilson, United States consul at Nice, France, forwarded 
a collection of prehistoric stone implements. 

Collections of bird skins, fibers, and two mammals were received. 

Two manikins of Africans and one of an Arab Sheikh were prepared 
for the Museum by M. Jules Hebert, under the supervision of the direc- 
tor of the Trocadero Museum, Paris. 

GERMANY. 

From E. Rey a collection of bird skins was purchased. 

The following material, forming part of the German exhibit at New 
Orleans, was received: a collection of baskets and other industrial 
products, and two figures illustrating dress and occupation of peasants. 

HOLLAND. 

Four large pieces of Flemish tapestry* (Ace. 16707) have been de- 
posited b3" Lieut. Gen. P. H. Sheridan, U. S. Army. These are four of 
a series of six pieces illustrating scenes in the life of Alexander the 
Great, made by Jan Leyuiers (1627-1686) from designs by artists of the 
school of Rubens, and presented by John W. Mackay to General P. 
H. Sheridan. 

The legends are translated as follows : 

1. Alexander kills a lion with a severe wound. 

2. Alexander draws up the line of battle and exhorts his men to fight. 

3. To Alexander, on account of his victories in divers places, arms are surrendered 
and he is adored as a god by his men. 

4. Alexautler covered with dust and sweat, bathing himself in the river Cyduus, 
is taken out thence like one breathing his last. 

Through the New Orleans Exposition was received a collection of 
industrial products, 

IRELAND. 

Four specimens of basalt, box of magnesia, and a specimen of lace 
were received. 

* Size 14 feet by 13 feet 3^- inches. 

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 5 



QG REPORT ON N-4TI0NAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

ITALY. 

Among the accessions from this countrj^ were a collection of ancient 
Eoman coins, blocks of lava from Vesuvius, eight specimens of cinna- 
bar, and fourteen specimens of sulphur, and ores. 



Several domestic utensils and a collection of marine shells (thirty 
species) were received. 

RUSSIA. 

A collection of reptiles, and a collection of leather and cotton fabrics. 

SAXONY. 

A collection of majolica-ware and china. 

SCOTLAND. 

Specimens of cotton and worsted fabrics. 

SWEDEN. 

A Chukchee cross-bow, an assortment of seeds from the Experiment- 
al Gardens, and a few specimens of ores were contributed. 

OCEANIC A. 

A collection of textiles, mammal skins, bird skins, botanical speci- 
mens, nuggets, and a fossil plant were received from Australia, and a 
collection of nine mammal skins from New South Wales and Tasmania. 

From !New Zealand, a necklace and a wallet made of seeds from Papua 
and Samoan Islands, specimens of bird skins, and a collection of twenty- 
three mammal skins from Queensland and Tasmania were received. 

From the Samoan Islands comes a Kava bowl, cocoanut- shell cup, 
and root used in preparing a drink called " Kava," together with some 
specimens of Tapa cloth and a rug. 

A few mammal skins, five carved gourds, and specimens of sugars 
were sent from the Sandwich Islands. 

A collection of mollusks and marine invertebrates was obtained by 
the U. S. S. Enterprise in the islands of the South Pacific. 

5. CO-OPERATION OF THE DEPARTMENTS AND BUREAUS OF THE GOV- 
ERNMENT. 

As in previous years, the National Museum has enjoyed the valuable 
co-operation of the various Departments of the Government. 

A number of collections have been received from various agents em- 
ployed by the Departments at home and abroad, who during time not 
occupied in official duties have employed themselves in scientific in- 
vestigations and in collecting material for the Smithsonian Institution . 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. G7 

President Cleveland presented a bowl, cocoauut-shell drinking cup, 
used in the ceremony of kava drinking, and a fan, two pieces of the root 
from which the '' kava" is made ; and also a rug of native manufacture. 
These objects were presented to the President by tlie King of the Sa- 
moau Islands. 

STATE DEPARTMENT. 

The material received through this Department was collected by the 
United States consuls in various foreign countries. The contributions 
here mentioned do not include the material received from the iN'ew Or- 
leans Exposition through this Department, 

Hon. S. S. Cox, U. S. minister to Turkey, sent an Egyptian mummy. 
This specimen is fully described on p. 150 of this report. 

Hon. G. W. Griffin, U. S. consul, Sydney, Australia, forwarded Aus- 
tralian wool. 

Hon. Otto Reimer, U. S. consul, Santiago de Cuba, sent some min- 
erals, among which was a very interesting variety of garnet. 

Hon. Edward Thompson, U. S. consul, Merida, Yucatan, sent a bird 
skin. 

Hon. Albert Woodcock, U. S. consul, Catania, Sicily, sent a plow, 
which is of great interest, from the fact of its being similar to those 
used in Sicily more than two thousand years ago. 

Samples of Russian petroleum refined at Marseilles, and of milk sugar 
from Germany and Switzerland, were also received. 

TKEASUKY DEPAKTMBNT. 

Bureau of Engraving and Printing. — A small collection of materials 
illustrative of the engraver's work was received, 

U. 8. Coast Survey. — Dr. W, H. Rush, of the steamer Blake, sent a 
collection of moUusks from the Gulf of Mexico, and a parasite worm 
taken from a rock cod. A case of saliuometers and an optical densi- 
meter were deposited by this Bureau. 

Light-Rouse Board. — A series of models of light-houses, lightships, 
etc., which were exhibited at the ^^,\\ Orleans Exposition, were placed 
on deposit. 

TJ. 8. Revenue Marine. — Cai)t. M. A. Healy, of the steamer Corwin, 
sent a collection of fishes, marine invertebrates, etc. 

WAR DEPAKTMENT. 

Lieut. Gen. P. H. Sheridan, lent, for exhibition, four large specimens 
of Flemish tapestry. These represent scenes in the life of Alexander 
the Great, and are described on page 65 of this report. 

Capt. Charles E, Bendire, honorary curator of birds' eggs in the Na- 
tional Museum, contributed during the year a collection of fishes, birds, 
birds' eggs, reptiles, and three concretions from near Fort Custer, Mont., 
a Smith & Wesson revolver found on the Custer battle-field in 1883, 
and a bird from Fort Lowell, Ariz. 



68 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Col. A. Gr. Brackett, of Fort DavLs, Tex., seut a nocturnal hawk- 
motb. 

Br. J. C. Merrill, of Colunibuis Barracks, Ohio, seut a nest and eggs 
of Acadian liy-catcbers. 

Lieut. P. n. Kay, Fort Gaston, Cal., gathered a large and valuable 
collection of ethnological objects used by the Hoopa JS'atano and Kla- 
math Kenuck bands of Indians in California. 

Dr. Samuel Q. Kobinson, U. S. Army, sent an American Egret. 

Charles Ruby, U. S. Army, of Fort D. A. Russell, Wyoming, con- 
tributed the following specimens: Indian saddle, axolotl, necks and 
tongues of two horned owls, gopher skins, and spermophiles. 

Dr. It. W. Shufeldt, U. S. Army, of Fort Wingate, N. Mex., has con- 
tinued his valuable assistance to the Museum, and has sent large col 
lections of birds, reptiles, insects, mammals, etc. 

From the burgeon -General of the Army was received a collection of 
513 crania and 322 skeletons, which were eliminated from the collec- 
tions of the Army Medical Museum during its reorganization. Many 
of these were improperly mounted, however, and not of sufficient value 
to be placed in the exhibition series, and are useful only for jjurposes of 
study. 

U. 8. Signal Service. — General A. W. Greely contributed some bones 
of Atlantic walrus and Polar bear, obtained by him while in the Arctic 
regions. 

J. W. Johnson, of Fort Alexander, Alaska, sent a collection of eth- 
nological objects, fossils, shells, stone implements, and bird skins. 

NAVY BEPAliTMENT. 

Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. i^avy, while stationed in Corea, for- 
forwarded a valuable collection of Corean material, including table-ware, 
bottles, water jars, wine-cups, drugs, musical instruments, fabrics, fishes, 
turtles, marine invertebrates, cephalopotls, ethnological objects, etc. 

Lieut. T. DixBolles, stationed in Alaska, contributed a wooden mask, 
war knife, and a pipe taken from the Indian graves in southeastern 
Alaska. 

Dr. J. T. Bransford, while in Nicaragua, forwarded a collection of 
the fishes, reptiles, and birds of that country. 

Dr. W. H. Jones sent a collection of fishes, insects, and a water- 
snake from Panama. 

Admiral J. E. Jouett contributed an agouti from Central America. 

Lieut. W. A. Mintzer donated several Corean coins. " 

Lieut. H. E. jS^ichols sent from Sitka, Alaska, a collection of alligator 
fishes. 

Commodore R. W. Shufeldt contributed a Damascus sword and eight 
small ivory and gold mounted knives of Arabian manufacture. 

Dr. T. H. Streets, passed assistant surgeon, contributed a collection 
of fishes, shell, reptiles, mai'iue invertebrates, etc. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 69 

Bureau of Navigation. — A collection of marine invertebrates made 
by the U. S. steamer Enterprise, in the Soutli Pacific and Atlantic 
Oceans, was transferred to the Museum. 

INTBIUOR DEPARTMENT. 

U. S. General Land Office. — A large collection of minerals, ores, and 
building stones, exhibited by this office at the New Orleans Exposition, 
was, at the close of the exposition, transferred to the Museum. 

JJ. S. Geological Survey.— ^muevonn collections, huge and small, were 
received from the U. S. Survey, among which were the following : Miner- 
als and rocks from California, Kentucky, New Mexico, North Carolina, 
and Alabama; silver ore from Nevada; a large collection of plants 
from the Yellowstone National Park; birds' nests from Virginia; natu- 
ral coke, furnace slag, repHles ; marine shells from Florida ; fossil wood 
and berries, and relics from Orangeburgh, S. C. ; stalagmite deposit, 
containing bones of animals, from Cartersville, Ga., and collections of 
Trenton, Devonian, Carboniferous, Silurian, and Ordoviciau fossils. 

There was also received a series of geological relief maps of Mount 
Taylor, New Mexico ; Washoe district, Nevada ; Uinta and Wasatch 
Mountains; Eureka district, Nevada; Leadvillo and vicinity; high 
plateaus of Utah ; Elk Mountains (colored) ; Ruby Hill Mines, Nevada 
(model); Leadville (dissected); Henry Mountains, Utah. Topograph- 
ical models of the Yosemite Valley, Yellowstone ^.'ational Park, ancient 
province of Tusayan. Models of the following mounds : Great Serpent; 
section of Little Etowah; Pit of Nelson; Great Etowah; Linn, and 
Great Elephant, five clifi:" ruin models and seven pueblo models. 

BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY. 

From the Bureau of Ethnology were received a model of Wejegi, one 
of the Chaco ruins, prepared under the direction of the Bureau, and 
seventeen photographs of Osage and Ute Indians ; life-size busts of 
" Prairie Chicken" and " Little Wolf," and some Zuiii gods. Twenty- 
two boxes of pottery, baskets, and blankets were also transmitted to the 
Museum. 

GOVERNMENT ASYLUM FOR THE INSANE. 

Dr. W. W. Godding, Superintendent, sent a black bear. 

U. S. FISH COMMISSION. 

The material received from the Fish Commission consisted of collec- 
tions of fishes, marine invertebrates, mollusks, reptiles, birds, mam- 
mals, insects, oysters, porpoises, stone implements, bones, birds' nests 
and eggs, rushes, etc. Mr. James E. Benedict, of the Fish Commission, 
sent a carrying basket, obtained by him on Cozumel Island, and a water- 
vessel from Old Providence Island. Col. Marshall McDonald sent sev- 
eral large collections of fishes, reptiles, crayfishes, insects, fungi, marine 



70 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

invertebrates, etc. Mr. C. H. Townsend seut from California a collection 
of birds, mammal skins, and tisbes, and from Alaska a skin canoe, fossil 
shells, actinians, bird skeletons, mammals, birds, etc. 

6. REPORT UPON THE EXHIBIT MADE BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITU- 
TION AT THE >:EW ORLEANS EXPOSITION. 

BY R. EDWARD EARLL. 

In accordance with an executive order of May 13, 1884, there was 
organized a Board of Government Commissioners charged with making 
the necessary arrangements for a general Government display at three 
exhibitions, namely, the Southern Exposition at Louisville, Ky., open- 
ing August 16 and continuing until October 25; the Cincinnati Indus- 
trial Exposition to be held at Cincinnati, Ohio, between September 3 
and October 4 ; and the World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Ex- 
position at ^ew Orleans, beginning December 16, 1884, and continuing 
till May 31, 1885. The board consisted of one representative from etvch 
of the Government Departments; and, in addition, a representative 
from the Smithsonian Institution, including the U. S. National Museum 
and the U. S. Fish Commission; and one from the Department of Agri 
culture. 

To this board were referred all questions relating to the participation 
by the Government in the various exhibitions. Each Kepresentative 
was charged with the preparation of an exhibit for the Department 
with whicli he was connected, and the funds placed to its credit by Con- 
gress were to be disbursed under his direction. Prof. G. Brown Goode, 
Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the 
U. S. National Museum, who had represented the U. S. Fish Commis- 
sion at the Fisheries Exhibition at Berlin in 1880, and that at London 
in LS83, was nominated by Professor Baird, to represent the three or- 
ganizations above named, and a day or two later he received an official 
appointment from the President of the United States. The board held 
an informal conference in Washington, beginning May 7, for the pur- 
pose of drawing up an outline of the work in connection with the several 
expositions, and for submitting estimates of the amount of money re- 
quired by each Department for preparing a satisfactory exhibit. The 
passage of the bill authorizing the expenditure of money in connec- 
tion with these exhibitions was considerably delayed, and the funds 
did not become available until July 7. At this time there were placed 
to the credit of the Smithsonian Institution $75,000 for the preparation 
of exhibits for the exposition at New Orleans, with $2,500 additional 
for Louisville and $2,300 for Cincinnati. Only a few weeks remained 
before the opening of the two last-named exhibitions, and the exhibit 
for each of these, owing to the limited time remaining, was necessarily 
less complete than it would otherwise have been; though the work was 
pushed vigorously, l)eginning immediately after the appropriations be- 
came available, and continuing till a few days before tlie opening of 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 71 

the exhibitions, when the exhibits were shipped and officers of the 
Museum proceeded to the respective cities to see to the proper installa- 
tion of the collections. 

THE EXHIBIT AT LOUISVILLE. 

In 1883 the people of Louisville obtained control of a large plat of 
ground within easy access of the city and erected a building 920 feet by 
630 feet, with extensive galleries, where they held a large and success- 
ful exposition, continuing for three months. The exposition of 1884 was 
held under the same auspices and in the same building, opening August 
16 and closing October 25. 

Immediately upon the passage of the bill by Congress, correspond- 
ence was opened with the management of the exposition, and space 
obtained in different portions of the building for the several Executive 
Departments, 4,500 feet being assigned to the Smithsonian Institution, 
in one of the most prominent locations. The time being short, the work 
of preparing the exhibit was vigorously prosecuted, and on August 12 
three cars, containing ninety-five cases, with a weight of 23,553 pounds, 
were shipped. These arrived at Louisville on the morning of the 16th, 
and by the evening of the 19th were fully installed. 

The industrial interests of Kentucky were taken into consideration 
in deciding upon the character of the exhibit, which it was thought 
desirable to make as instructive as possible. It was largely an educa- 
tional exhibit, showing the processes of manufacture of raw materials 
which are abundant in the State, to which were added specimens illus- 
trating certain subjects which it was thought would prove both novel 
and interesting to the people of Kentucky. One of the prominent feat- 
ures of the exhibit was a large collection showing the process of manu- 
facturing textiles from raw materials, including flax, hemp, jute, grasses, 
and silk. A collection illustrative of articles derived from the animal 
kingdom was also shown. This included a series of furs, another of 
crude and manufactured leathers, a third of natural and ornamental 
shells and shell-work, a fourtli illustrating the uses of feathers in the 
arts, and a fifth showing the manufacture and uses of glues derived 
from the sounds, bones, and skins of various species of fish. An ex. 
tensive collection of photographs and drawings, illustrative of the 
great ocean fisheries of the New England coast, was also shown. The 
whale fishery was illustrated by means of a full-sized whale-boat, fully 
equipped with sails, oars, harpoons, lines, and guns; also by a model of 
a whale-shix) with a whale alongside, showing the method of stripping 
the blubber and trying it out on the vessel's deck; and by paintings 
of whaling scenes. The other fisheries, including those for cod, mack- 
erel, menhaden, and herring, and the apparatus and methods of fish- 
culture, were fully shown by models of the most important vessels and 
boats, and by a series of photographs, 30 by 40 inches, neatly framed, 
and mounted on screens. The natural history collections included 



72 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

lepresentations of nearly all of the snakes and reptiles founil in the 
United States, and a fine series of many of the water-birds of the 
conutry. 

An attendant was left in charge of the exhibits during the continu 
ance of the exposition, and at its close the collections were carefully 
packed and a majority of them forwarded direct to New Orleans, a 
few being returned to Washington to be remounted, as a part of larger 
and more complete collections, before shipping to the New Orleans 
Exposition. 

THE EXHIBIT AT CINCINNATI. 

The Cincinnati Industrial Exposition is an institution of some years' 
standing, and receives the cordial support of the most prominent busi- 
ness men of the city. Expositions have been held here with consid- 
erable regularity, and a suitable and substantial brick building has 
been erected by the management. It is located in the heart of the 
city, and the attendance is usually large. For the season of 1884 the 
Exi^osition opened on September 3, closing on the 4th of the following 
month. 

As most of the space was allotted before the bill authorizing Govern- 
ment participation in the Exposition had become a law, a second build- 
ing, to accommodate the Government exhibits, was found necessary, and 
the management erected a temporary structure near the main entrance, 
having dimensions of 50 by 200 feet. This was divided between the 
several Departments, ;>,.322 square feet, or nearly one-third of the entire 
building, being allotted the Smithsonian Institution. This space was 
situated at one end of the structure, thus admitting of a satisfactory 
and very pleasing installation. 

As soon as the Louisville exhibits were in place, the work of prepar- 
ing those for Cincinnati was vigorously pushed, and the entire collec- 
tion, consisting of eighty cases, with a weight of 24,321 pounds, was 
shipped on August 26, reaching the exposition on September 1. A 
very large force of men was at once set to work to unpack and install 
the exhibits, and by the opening of the exposition the arrangement was 
practically completed. 

As at Louisville, the exhibits were largely educational, and included 
such objects as it was thought would be most appreciated by those 
who saw them. One of the striking features was an alcove contain- 
ing a collection illustrative of the social life and industries of the Es- 
kimo and the Indians of the Northwest coast ; the dwellings, house- 
hold utensils, and implements of war, hunting, and fishing, as well as 
the arts of the two races, being shown in such a manner as to afford 
accurate means of comparison. A life size bust, in ])laster, of one of the 
prominent Indian chiefs, and portraits in oil of thirteeji others, were 
also exhibited. Another iini)ortant feature was a large and valuable 
collection of minerals yielding gems and ornamental stones. The nat- 
ural history department contained a small but choice collection of taxi- 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 73 

(lermy, including game and water-birds, sparrows, and a few mammals, 
wl'iile a number of Audubon's colored plates of North American birds 
were framed and bung upon the walls. Two cases were devoted to ir 
large collection of plaster casts of the more common snakes and turtles 
of the United States. The methods and apparatus employed in the 
great ocean fisheries and in fish-culture were graphically represented 
by means of two extensive series of photographs, the larger series be- 
ing solar enlargements, having dimensions of 30 by 40 inches. In the 
fisheries section was also shown a large and valuable collection of plas- 
ter casts of the important food-fishes of the country, including both 
fresh and salt water species. The collection of textile fabrics was very 
complete, including samples of many American and foreign fabrics, 
from the cheapest to the most expensive. Two alcoves, which attracted 
considerable attention, were devoted to photo-lithographs of Japanese 
pottery, and to a large collection of photographs showing the art and 
sculpture of the early Saxons. 

As at Louisville, the collections were placed in charge of an attend- 
ant, who looked after the interests of the Smithsonian during the con- 
tinuance of the Exposition, and at its close the exhibits were packed, 
and the bulk of them shi})ped to New Orleans, to be installed with 
other exhibits at the Exposition in that city. 

NEW ORLEANS EXPOSITION. 

It was not definitely known until the passage of the approi)riations 
for the New Orleans Exposition what amount of money would be placed 
to the credit of the Smithsonian Institution, and it was, therefore, im- 
l)ossible to make any definite and detailed plans in connection with this 
work ; but when the amount so api)ropriated had been ascertained, the 
plans were matured, and immediately upon the shipment of the ma- 
terials to the expositions at Louisville and Cincinnati, attention was 
turned to the work of collecting, arranging, mounting, and labeling 
materials for New Orleans. 

A force was organized by Professor Groode for this work, of which Mr. 
R. Edward Earll was the executive officer and Mr. W. V. Cox was the 
financial agent. The curators of several departments of the Museum 
were designated by Professor Goode to undertake the preparation of 
special exhibits for their respective departments, and definite sums of 
money were placed at their disposal for this work. Such assistants as 
were needed were furnished to each department for the preparation 
and mounting of nuxterial ; and mu(;h of the duplicate material under 
their charge in the Museum was utilized. A number of the curators 
visited different localities for the purpose of obtaining speciin(Mis to 
complete their series. Much of the material exhibited at Louisville 
and Cincinnati was forwarded direct to New Orleans immediately 
upon the close of those expositions, and by the middle of Novem- 
ber the shipping of material from Washington was begun, and the en- 



74 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

tire collection, consisting of seventeen car-loads, was forwarded within 
a few weeks. 

A separate building was provided for the display of Government and 
State exhibits, this being 885 feet long by 565 feet wide. A strip 185 
feet wide, extending entirely across the center of the building, was as- 
signed to the Government Departments, the space on either side being 
assigned to the several States, tlie Educational Exhibit, the Woman's 
Department and the exhibits of the colored people, occupying the gal- 
leries of the building. At a meeting of the Government board for the 
assignment of space to the various Departments, a strip 20 feet wide, 
extending entirely across the center of the building, was set apart for a 
main aisle or thoroughfare; the remaining space was distributed 
among the <lifferent Departments, the Smithsonian occupying a posi- 
tion immediately at the left of the main or Prytania street entrance, 
82J feet wide, and extendiuL': along the central aisle for a distance of 300 
feet, or to a point somewhat beyond the center of the building, and, 
in addition, the two large offices adjoining the entrance. On December 
6, Professor Goode, accompanied by Mr. Earll, left Washington for New 
Orleans, for the purpose of making preliminary arrangements and su- 
pervising the installation of the exhibits, having been preceded by Mr. 
Henry Horan, with a force of mechanics and trained workmen from the 
National Museum, consisting of Messrs. Reed, Deery, Kenyon, Neale, 
and Wallingsford. As soon as the exhibits arrived telegrams were sent 
to a number of the curators who had prepared the collections for their 
several departments. These reported in person or by representaMve to 
make the necessary installation of their material. Such additional labor 
as was required was obtained in iS^ew Orleans, and the work of install- 
ing the exhibits was pushed as rapidly as possible, until everything was 
finally auranged, after which the curators and mechanics returned to 
Washington. 

The Smithsonian space, covering an area, exclusive of offices, of 
24,750 feet, was divided among the different departments as follows: 

Square feet 

Ethnology 1,904 

Archaeology 406 

Textiles 1,624 

Naval Architecture 686 

Graphic Arts 652 

Fisheries and Fish-culture 2, 345 

Animal Products 2,400 

Mammals ^ > 082 

Exhibit of Society of American Taxidermists •'^Q-'J 

Birds ^-10 

Reptiles ^00 

Mollusks 1,328 

Minerals 1, 290 

Lithology and Physical Geology 384 

Metallurgy and Economic Gteology 2, 274 

Workshop -^00 

Aisle space ^- 450 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 75 

Professor Goode remained uutil after the opening of the Exposition, 
when pressing duties at Washington required his return. In his ab- 
sence, Mr. Earll was designated as Deputy Representative, with Mr. M. 
P. Suell as secretary, and W. H. Abbott, Arthur Brauer, and E. W. 
Atfield as assistants, these constituting the permanent force during 
the continuance of the Exposition. Mr. J. Warner Edwards, of Phila- 
delphia, a scientist of wide experience, and a specialist in mineralogy, 
crystallography, and lithology, who was spending the winter at New 
Orleans, kindly volunteered his services, which were very gladly ac- 
cepted. Mr. Edwards remained during the entire period of the expo- 
sition, and rendered the most valuable assistance, not only in connec- 
tion with the departments in which he was especially interested, but 
in the general work of administration. 

THE ETHNOLOGICAL EXHIBIT. 

The ethnological exhibit prepared under the direction of Prof. Otis T. 
Mason, curator of the department of ethnology, consisted of a collec- 
tion illustrating the social condition of the various tribes of North 
American Indians and Eskimos. It contained a large series of the cos- 
tumes, weapons of war and chase, household utensils, tools, and games 
of the different tribes, with samples of their basketry and decorative 
work, including painting and carving, with full-sized busts, in plaster, 
of several of the leading chiefs. This exhibit occupied twenty-seven 
cases, the educational idea, which was carefully worked ont being prom- 
inent in its arrangement. 

Adjoining this department were six cases set apart for the archaeo 
logical collections, consisting of stone implements from various localities 
in North America, arranged and mounted under the direction of Dr. 
Charles Rau, curator of the department of prehistoric anthropology. 

TEXTILE EXHIBIT. 

A large and interesting collection of textiles was prepared under the 
direction of Mr. Romyn Hitchcock, acting eurator of the section of text- 
iles. This collection was intended primarily to show the numerous 
fibers used in the manufacture of textiles, and, as far as practicable, the 
different stages of preparation and the processes of manufacture, begin- 
ning with the raw material and ending with the finished product. It was 
not limited to American fibers, but included textiles from the Philippine 
Islands, Japan, China, Siam, Spain, Portugal, England, and other coun- 
tries. Prominent among the exhibits were esparto grass, agavi fibers, 
jute, flax, Spanish hemp, ramie, Chinese grass cloth, a large collection 
of raw cotton and cotton cloths, a collection of silk, including the cocoons 
and raw silk and the manufactured goods. The collection also contained 
specimens illustrating the manufacture of hair-cloth and carpets of 
various kinds. The whole was neatly mounted in standard Museum 



76 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

trays, each specimen being provided with a printed descriptive label. 
The collection lilled twenty-one standard cases, occupying floor-space 
of more than J, GOO square feet. 

EXHIBIT OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. 

The preparation of a collection illustrating the development of the 
vessels of the merchant marine was undertaken by Capt. J. W. Collins, 
of the D. S. Fish Commission, who visited the diiferent centers of tlie ship- 
building industry and obtained builders' models of vessels of difterent 
types, the series beginning with the primitive forms, and ending with 
those of the most modern pattern. Prominent among tiiese were 
models showing the development of cotton ships. In addition to 
the above were exhibited several fine models, belonging to the section 
of naval architecture in the National Museum. Those included a full- 
rigged whaling-ship, a Chinese war-Junk, and a three-masted schooner 
of modern build. Messrs. Higgins & Giff'ord, a firm engaged exten- 
sively in the manufacture of all kinds of sail-boats, row-boats, and 
yachts, sent an interesting collection showing the different types of 
boats manufactured by them, including a model of the dory '^ Centen- 
nial,^^ the smallest boat that ever crossed the ocean. 

THE ART EXHIBIT. 

A collection to illustrate the growth of art was prepared by Prof. G. 
Brown Goode. It consisted of about one hundred and twenty auto- 
types, re])resenting the most noted pictures of the principal artists of 
the world arranged chronologically by countries. The collection began 
with Cimabue, the most noted artist of the thirteenth century, and con 
tained representations of the work of prominent artists from that time 
to the present. 

In addition to the foregoing, the collection contained a very interest- 
ing series of autotypes representing noted pieces of sculpture, these 
being confined chiefly to representations of the works of Greek and 
Italian sculptors. 

Besides the autotypes, there was an exhibit prepared by the Photo- 
Engraving Company, of New York, to illustrate the process of photo- 
engraving; another, prepared by H. C. Whitcomb & Co., illustrating 
the process of stereotyping ; and a third, by the same firm, showing 
the most modern methods of electro typing. 

THE FISHERIES AND FISH-CULTURAL EXHIBITS. 

The collection illustrating the fisheries consisted of about one hundred 
and fifty framed photographs, solar enlargements, and drawings in 
crayon illustrative of the apparatus and methods employed in the sea 
and river fisheries of the United States, and, in addition, a very com- 
plete collection of models in plaster of the principal food-fishes of North 
America, including both the marine and fresh-water species. There 
were also exhibited a series of diagrams prepared by Prof. W. O. At- 



KEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 77 

water showing the nutritive qualities of the leading food-fishes, and 
tabulated statements of the nutritive values of fish as compared with 
other foods. The exhibit also contained a full-sized whale-boat, thor- 
oughly equipped with apparatus for the capture of whales, including 
not only the old-style hand harpoons and lances, but also the modern 
swivel-gun and the explosive cartridge used in connection with the 
same. 

The fish-cultural exhibit, prepared under the direction of Col. Mar- 
' shall McDonald, of the U. S. Fish Commission, consisted of a series of 
six tables containing hatching apparatus in which the embryos of the 
whitefish, salmon, and other species were kept during their develop- 
ment, and small aquaria in which the newly hatched fry were exhibited. 
In addition there were six large aquaria containing a number of differ- 
ent species of fish from the ponds of the U. S. Fish Commission at 
Washington, including the gold-fish, golden ide, German carp, trout, 
salmon, and other kinds. There was also a series containing numer- 
ous forms of hatching apparatus used at different hatcheries belonging 
to the U. S. Fish Commission, and models of various kinds of fish- 
ladders or fish- ways. Arrangements were made with the management 
of the Exposition for having a supply of water for conducting the 
hatching operations, and at intervals of two or three weeks quan- 
tities of eggs of different species were shipped to New Orleans and 
placed in the hatching apparatus, where they were allowed to remain 
until hatched. This exhibit was, perhajjs, the most popular in the en- 
tire exhibition, and during the time when clear water could be obtained 
and the young fish were hatching, a majority of the people attending 
the exposition found their way to the space, some of them lingering 
for hours. 

On February IS, Colonel McDonald arrived with U. S. Fish Commis- 
sion car No. 3, containing a full equipment of hatching and transport- 
ing apparatus. This car was placed on a side track at the Prytania 
street entrance of the exhibition, adjoining the Smithsonian space, and 
was open for inspection daily from 8 in the morning until 6 in the 
evening. In it were shown not only the processes of hatching, but 
also the methods emj)loyed in transferring the fry to waters very remote 
from the hatchery. After the fish-cultural exhibit had been installed. 
Colonel McDonald returned to Washington, and J. Frank Ellis was 
placed in charge of the car, and James Carswell assumed control of 
the fish-cultural dis{)lay in the Smithsonian space in the Government 
building. The car remained until the middle of May, when it was re- 
called, to be used in the distribution of shad from the Fish Commission 
stations in Washington and Maryland. 

THE FISH COMMISSION STEAMER ALBATROSS. 

The steamer Albatross, belonging to the U. S. Fish Commission, was 
engaged during the wincer of 1884-85 in an investigation of the cur- 



78 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

rents, temperature, and life of the ocean in the viciuity of the West 
Indies and in portions of the Gulf of Mexico. By permission of the 
U. S. Commissioner of Fisheries, the vessel made a visit of a few days 
to New Orleans. On lier arrival in that city the exposition manage- 
ment placed a portion of the exposition wharf at her disposal, where 
the steamer was thrown open for inspection by visitors to the exposi- 
tion as a i^art of the exhibit of the U. S. Fish Commission. The ap- 
paratus employed in her scientific investigations was arranged on deck; 
and interesting forms of marine life recently taken in the deep waters ' 
of the Gulf of Mexico were removed from the tanks and placed in glass 
bottles in the steamer's laboratory, where they could be viewed by 
those who were interested. At the request of Capt. Z. L. Tanner, an 
efficient corps of officers and scientists remained constantly on duty to 
inform the visitors of the general charactt^r of the work in which the 
steamer was engaged, and to explain the workings of the api)aratu8. 
After a stay of ten days, during which time she was visited by a very 
large number of people, she left the exposition in order to resume her 
work which had been temporarily discontinued. 

THE ANIMAL PRODUCTS BXHIBIT. 

Adjoining the fish-cultural exhibit was a large collection of material 
showing the products of the animal kingdom, and, as far as practicable, 
the methods employed in their preparation. In this collection were shown 
the methods of utilizing the hair, fur, feathers, skin, scales, flesh, bones, 
horn, teeth, claws, viscera, and excrements of various animals. Por- 
tions of this collection were very complete, the exhibit of furs, for ex- 
ample, containing specimens of nearly every fur-bearing animal in the 
United States. The collection was installed in thirty five cases, occu- 
pying a floor space of 2,400 square feet. 

At one end of this collection, and serving as a connecting link be- 
tween it and the natural history department, were several cases illus- 
trating the methods employed in the capture of animals. In these were 
shown, either by models or pictures, various forms of traps used in 
different portions of the country by the Indians and whites in the capt- 
ure of birds, mammals, and fishes. 

MAMMAX KXHIBIT. 

As soon as it became evident that the Smithsonian Institution would 
be required to send material to New Orleans, the subject of getting a 
large and complete exhibit of the mammals of the country was dis- 
cussed; but when the definite amount of the appropriation was ascer- 
tained it became necessary to materially change the plan, in order to 
bring the exhibit within its proportional limit as compared with other 
departments. The exhibit was prei)ared under the direction of Mr. 
F. W. True, curator of the department of mammals, and from his 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 79 

Museum report on the subject the following description Las been ob- 
tained : 

It was intended that the entire existing mammalian fauna of North America from 
the Isthmus of Panama northward should be exhibited species by species, both 
1 y skins or casts and skeletons, and that some of th6 more important extinct fauna 
should be restored. This plan necessarily suffered much moditication after a short 
time, when it was found that neither money, time, nor materials sufficient to assemble 
such a collection before the opening of the exposition, were at command. 

With the intention, however, of having every important species represented, the 
curator visited the establishments of all the principal dealers in natural history ma- 
terial, and the collection of duplicates in the Museum was also drawn upon very 
largely. It was found that only a very small number of species were anywhere on 
sale, and that the Museum must rely upon its own resources. This it was able to do 
to a very considerable extent, although it was found necessary to withdraw some 
mounted specimens from the regular exhibition series ; a proceeding which the cura- 
tor carried out with great reluctance. 

Tim total number of specimens exhibited was one huadred and sixty, repiesenting 
one hundred and fifty siJecies and varieties. The series includes all the North Amer- 
ican ruuunants except the musk-ox ; all the important carnivores, both aquatic and 
terrestrial (especially the fur-bearing family, Musteliim) ; all the native beneficial or 
noxious rodents; representative species of porpoises; the manatees; and the more 
characteristic monkeys, sloths, bats, and insectivores. In addition, a series inteading 
to represent all the orders of the class mammalia was prepared. 

The collection was exhibited in four largo cases, except the ruminants, for which 
a separate large terraced stand was provided. The first case contained the cats, dogs, 
bears, etc. ; the second, the seals and whales ; the third, the monkeys, weasels, bats, 
and insectivores, and the first group of rodents, the endeutates and opossums, and 
the series representing the orders of mammalia. The large terraced stand, as already 
stated, supported only the ruminants. 

It will be observed that this collection, although considerably snaaller in point of 
number of specimens than that exhibited at the Centennial Exposition, still con- 
tained representatives of almost the same number of species. 

In addition to the specimens already mentioned, another email series was sent to 
New Orleans, representing the character of work done in connection with the depart- 
ment of osteology. It was at first intended that the difterent species of animals should 
be represented by skeletons as well as by mounted skins, but this plan was in the end 
found impracticable and was finally abandoned. 

Mr. William T. Horuaday, chief taxidermist of the National Museum, 
visired Kew Orleans for the purpose of unpacking and installing this 
collection. 

THE BIRD EXHIBIT. 

Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of the department of birds, was charged 
with the collection and preparation of the material for this exhibit. It 
consisted largely of specimens selected by him from the duplicates of 
the collections under his charge, these being finely mounted with a 
view to their display at the exposition. From Mr. Ridgway's report on 
these collections the following description is obtained: 

The department of birds prepared for exhibition at the New Orleans Exposition a 
collection of North American game birds numbering one hundred and sixty-three 
finely mounted specimens, and representing nearly all the species. The exhibit was 
at first intended to be much more comprehensive, the original plan being to exhibit 



HO REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

all the known species of North American birds, so far as could bo secured, together 
with typical groups to illustrate the avian fauu<» of tho several zoogcographical di- 
visions of tho earth's surface. The collection had been nearly completed on the origi- 
nal plan when it became necessary, on account of the limit'Ml space available at New 
Orleans, to greatly reduce the exhibit, and to limit ir to the game birds above men- 
tioned. Tliis collection was installed by Dr. Leonhard Srejneger, assistant curator, 
■who left Washington .January 'A, and returned on the 16th of the month. The collec- 
tion filled two double museum cases, fitted with rows of terraced shelves. Each 
specimen was mounted on a stand of polished black walnut, and provided with a 
printed label, on which were given, in large, clear type, both the scientific and popu- 
lar names. 

THE REPTILE EXHIBIT. 

This exhibit included a large and exhaustive series of life size models 
in plaster of the turtles and snakes of North America, each having 
been carefully colored by Mr. Schiudler from living specimens or from 
colored sketches. 

THE MOLLUSK EXHIBIT. 

The exhibit in this department was prepared under the direction of 
Dr. William H. Dall, cur;itor of the department of mollusks in the Na- 
tional Museum, and Dr. li. E. C. Stearns, assistant curator. Dr. Dall, 
in his report for 1885, described it as follows: 

The exhibit in this department of natural history probably surpassed in extent and 
general excellence any previously made at the great expositions. It was arranged 
iu twenty-one flat table cases, the specimens being placed in trays inside of the cases, 
and each of the trays fully labeled. 

The general system followed was a geographical one, and presented a characteristic 
representation of the more conspicuous and interesting forms of the various zoogeo- 
grai>hical provinces. 

Tho exhibit included several cases of the fresh-water mussels ( Vnienidee) of the 
Mississippi drainage area, remarkable for the great number and beauty of the shells, 
also the rare and peculiar forms belonging to this group from other parts of the world. 
The land and pond snails of the Mississippi basin were each represented by a single 
case. 

The marine .shells of the Atlantic coast of America from the Arctic Sea to the Carib- 
bean, and the sea shells of the Pacific coast from Bering Sea to Panama, including 
the principal species inhabiting the tidal areas of Puget Sound, to the north, and the 
Gulf of California, to the south, were similarly displayed. 

Other cases contained selected specimens from the Indo-Pacific region, such as live 
in the great coral areas of the warm seas between western America and eastern Asia. 

Four cases were devoted to the edible mollnsca of the United States. Two ot these 
contained the clams, cockles, etc., of the Atlantic sea-board, and in the other two 
were exhibited those of the shores of western America, from Alaska to San Diego. 

The preparation of the material was completed under the sujjervision of Dr. Stearns, 
who visited New Orleans and gave his attention to the proper installation and label- 
ing of the exhibit. 

EXHIBIT OF rUE SOCIETY OF AMERICAN TAXIDERMISTS. 

At the invitation of the Smithsonian Institution the Society of Ameri- 
can Taxidermists prepared for exhibition at New Orleans a series of 
specimens illustrative of the work of niembers of that society. Mr. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY 81 

William T. Horuaday, president, aud Mr. F. A. Lucas, secretary, gave 
their personal atteutioa to obtaiuing and arranging the material. The 
exhibit was large and instructive, occupying a floor space of nearly 
600 qaare feet. It contained specimens of the best work of the leading 
members of the society, including Messrs. Hornaday, Lucas, Fraiue, 
Webster, William Palmer, Joseph Palmer, Hedley, Forney, Bailly, 
Wallace, Jeremiah, and Kichardson. 

THE MINERAL EXHIBIT. 

The exhibit of minerals was collected and arranged under the di- 
rection of Prof. F. W. Clarke, curator of the department of minerals, 
and Mr. W. S. Yeates, assistant curator. From the annual report of the 
curator the following account of the exhibit is taken : 

The departmeut of minerals was represented at the New Orleans Exposition by a 
collection of the minerals which afford gems and ornamental stones, and by a collec- 
tion of cut and polished stones. The minerals were classified after Dana's system, aud 
were displayed in seven flat-top table cases. The gems were more difficult to classify, 
it not being possible to arrange them with advantage, according to their chemical 
constitution. The best arrangement seemed to be one which would have reference 
to their intrinsic value ; but it was found more convenient to allow the more un- 
common stones a place near the lower end of the case in which the gems were exhib- 
ited. The second and last cases began with quartzes, and was followed by the feld- 
spars and other ornamental stones. The specimens in these two cases were mounted 
on white and black velvet pads, which displayed them to great advantage. 

The exhibit was arranged by Mr. Yeates, who visited New Orleans for that purpose. 

THE LITHOLOGICAL EXHIBIT. 

Under the direction of Mr. George P. Merrill, acting curator of the 
department of lithology and physical geology in the National Museum, 
a large collection of materials was prepared for New Orleans. Many 
of the specimens in this exhibit were taken from the duiilicates belong- 
ing to the National Museum, but in order to complete the series Mr. 
Merrill visited numerous quarries and obtained suitable specimens, 
many of them being cut aud polished before shippi*g. Mr. Merrill has 
given the following account of the exhibit prepared by him : 

This exhibit consisted of (1) a collection of three hundred and fifty-eight speci- 
mens of building and ornamental stones in the form of 4-inch cubes; (2) a collec- 
tion of some twelve specimens of foreign aud native marbles in the form of polished 
slabs ; (3) a collection of one hundred aud lifty specimens of rock-forming minerals; 
(4) a collection called a "structural series," intended to represent all the more com- 
mon forms of rock structure and texture ; (5) a collection of one hundred and ninety- 
eight specimens of rock illustrating the geology and lithology of the Comstock Lode 
and Washoe district, Nevada; and (6) alithological collection comprising five hun- 
dred specimens of rock of various kinds and from many sources, both native and 
foreign, this last, together with collections number three and four, forming a part of 
the regular educational series of the Museum. 

Mr. Merrill went to New Orleans and arranged his exhibit, which was 
neatly installed, the collection occupying a floor space of nearly 400 
square feet. 

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 6 



82 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

THE METALLURGICAL EXHLBIT. 

One of the largest exhibits in the Smithsonian collection at the ex- 
position was that prepared under the direction of Mr. Fred P. Dewey, 
curator of metallurgy and economic geology, who, with several assist- 
ants, devoted his entire time, for several months prior to the exposition, 
to the collection and arrangement of materials, James Temple Brown 
being detailed to make a special collection of coals and articles illus- 
trating the processes of coal mining. From Mr. Dewey's report the fol- 
lowing account of the exhibit is taken : 

In the first division of this collection — that of economic geologyrr-it was designed 
to exhibit collections illustrating the different kinds and grades of the ores of each 
metal, and also a few collections of non-metallic minerals of economic importance. 

In the second division — that of metallurgy — it was designed to exhibit collections 
representing the processes for the extraction of the metals from their ores by speci- 
mens, where f)racticable, filling the gaps by means of illustrations and. descriptions, 
and accompanying them by general illustrations and descriptions, so as to fully ex- 
plain these processes. 

The ore collection was made up with a view to represent all the different varieties 
of each ore and many of the most prominent mining regions. 

The Lake Superior copper region was very thoroughly represented, both on account 
of the value of the mines, and as representing the kind of collections it is desirable for 
the Museum to possess to illustrate a region or mine. The region was represented by 
three prominent mines, showing three different and characteristic occurrences of the 
ore. In the first place, the so-called mass mines, which are characterized by the occur- 
rence of large masses of free copper, amounting in some cases to many tons of metal 
in a single mass, were represented by the Central Mine. Mines of this kind also carry 
considerable quantities of disseminated free copper. In the second place, the amygda- 
loid mines, which are distinguished by the occurrence of free copper in amygdules, 
bunches, strings, and sheets, from the size of a pin-point up to a few hundred pounds 
in weight, disseminated iu a soft amygdaloid trap-rock, were represented by the 
Osceola Mine. In the next place, the conglomerate mines, which are characterized by 
the presence of free copper mostly in the form of strings in a hard conglomerate of 
ferruginous quartz pebbles, were typified by the Conglomerate Mine. 

Taking the Conglomerate Mine as an example, the collection showed, first, the gen- 
eral character of the ore and the inclosing wall rocks ; secondly, the occurrence of the 
ore at various prominent points in the mine, which were accurately located ; and, 
thirdly, a section of the rocks over a distance of G:U feet, by specimens taken at suita- 
ble distances to illustrate the different characters and changes of the material. 

The collection in economic geology included placer gold, gold quartz, auriferous 
gravel, auriferous pyrite, tellutide ores, iridium (iridosmine), native silver, wire sil- 
ver, horn silver, ruby silver, base ores carrying silver, argentiferous lead ores, tin 
ores, sulphide ores of antimony, cinnabar, sulphide ores of lead ; native copper, includ- 
ing water-worn specimens ; mass copper, chips, amygdaloid and conglomerate dissem- 
inated free metal, sulphides of iron and copper, oxides, oxidized ores of bismuth, sul- 
phide ores of nickel and cobalt, five hundred specimens of iron ores showing all the 
different kinds of iron ore found in the country, manganese ore, ores of zinc ; anthra- 
cite, semi-bituminous, bituminous, splint, and cannel coal, and a large collection il- 
lustrating the methods of coal mining, including large photographs (taken by elec- 
tric light) of the interior of a coal mine, the firs t views of the kind ever produced ; 
native sulphur, and iron pyrites. 

In making up the metallurgical collection it was not possible to exhibit the pro- 
duction of each metal exhaustively, owing to the small amount of suitable material 
previously in the department and the short space of time available for making new 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 83 

collections, A few ayatematic illuatratious of metallurgical operations were shown. 
It was thought best to treat a few subjects thoroughly rather than a large number 
superficially. After suitable consideration, a few representative works were selected 
for illustration, and were worked up as completely as possible. 

Beginning with the ore as mined, each step in its preparation for smelting was 
shown, together with the by or waste products of such treatment. To illustrate the 
smelting operation, the ores, the fuels, the fluxes, and every other material entering 
the process, each product of each operation up to the final product of the works was 
shown. To these were added, where practicable, illustrations of materials of con- 
struction, such as fire-clays, sands, etc. The furnaces and tools were shown by 
specimens, views, and descriptions. The interest and value of these collections did 
not lay so much in the specimens themselves as in their being thoroughly connected, 
and in thekiad and amount of information that was given in regard to them. 

The collections in metallurgy comprised collections illustrating the extraction of 
gold and silver; the manufacture of lead, steel, coke, sulphuric acid, and alloys ; the 
smelting and refining of copper, iron, and zinc. There waa also illustrated the prac- 
tical application of the non-metallic ores by specimens showing the manufacture of 
sand-paper, asbestns and its uses, abrading and polishing materiala, and the utiliza- 
tion of barytes. 

This collection, filling nineteen cases, occupied a floor space of nearly 
2,300 square feet. Mr. Dewey visited the exposition and remained un- 
til all of the collections in his department had been installed. 

The Smithsonian exhibit occupied more than a quarter of the entire 
space assigned to the Government for exhibition purposes, and the at- 
tention which the collection received from visitors to the exhibition 
and from the press was very gratifying, the space being the center of 
attraction for scientists from various parts of the country and for 
students from different Southern colleges. 

At the close of the exposition several of the curators returned to 
New Orleans to look after the exhibits belonging to their departments, 
and a number of professional packers, under the direction of Mr. H. 
Horan, were sent from Washington to assist in the i)ackiug and return- 
ing of materials, many of the exhibits from their nature being very 
fragile and requiring skillful handling. An additional force of laborers 
was employed, and the work was pushed with all possible speed, so 
that by the 10th of July the work of packing bad been completed and 
the exhibits were on their way to Washington, Mr. Earll and party 
leaving on the 14th. By the end of the month the last car-load of 
materials had reached Washington. Very little loss was sustained 
from breakage, the exhibits upon arrival being, as a rule, in excellent 
condition. 



PA.IIT II 



REPORTS OF THE CURATORS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM 
UPON THE PROGRESS OF WORK DURING THE FISCAL YEAR 
ENDING JUNE ;jO, 1886. 



85 



REPORT UPON THE WORK IN THE DEPARTMENT Ot^ ETHNOLOGY IN 
THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 
1886. 



By Otis T. Mason, Curator. 



The work of this department during the year has been for the most 
part tentative and preparatory in two directions, receiving and caring 
for new material so as to render it most available and valuable, and pre- 
paring series of objects for exhibition, study, and exchange. 

In order to give greater efficiency to the former method of cataloguing 
accessions, the following plan has been adopted. Desultory material is 
entered as formerly in the standard catalogue ; after that a system of 
card cataloguing of an encyclopaedic character enables the curator to 
gather from many sources all that is valuable about the object in hand. 

Whenever a collection of special importance is received from the same 
locality, the objects are first carefully classified, so as to bring all things 
together that are alike or that have the same use. These are then en- 
tered, as formerly, a separate number being given to each piece that is 
sufficiently distinct to receive it, but those that are alike or that form 
a set receive the same number. The card catalogue is also used with 
this material for the purpose of gathering information. In the register 
things go by number ; in the card catalogue they are arranged by topics 
and classes of things, so that all information upon each subject will be 
found together, as in an encyclopaedia. 

This encyclopaedic method has proved of incalculable value m the 
corresjjondence of the Museum when difficult questions are proposed 
for immediate reply. 

As soon as this classified entry is made the material is sent to the 
poisoning department, where it is subjected to a close scrutiny. The 
curator has devoted much time to this subject, for it is encumbered with 
many difficulties, each kind of material demanding a different treatment. 
It is safe to suppose that every destructible specimen which comes into 
a museum is infested with the eggs or larvte of moth, derihestes, or 
other museum pests. The problems to solve at the outset are these: 

(1) To destroy the eggs and larvae. 

(2) To preserve in so doing the color and softness of the texture of 
fabrics, skins, and furs. 

87 



88 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

(3) To prevent attacks of insect enemies in the future. 

(4) To reduce the dange- to the curator and others to the lowest 
amount. 

In this department the curator has been greatly aided by the studies 
of Mr. Walter Hough, who has discovered the following insects at active 
work destroying museum material : Four species of Tinea, the carpet, fur, 
cloth, and grain moths ; Anthrenus varius and A. lepidus, the all-devouring 
"Buffalo bug;" Anobium panieeum, which destrojvs wood and basketry ; 
and Lepisma domestica, which destroys gummed labels. The work of 
research in this direction is not quite finished, but the following con- 
clusions have been ' practically reached : 

(1) It is not safe to trust to camphor, pepper, turpentine, etc., in the 
case of valuable material. 

(2) Insect powder soils ermine and other delicate furs and fabrics, and 
can be used only in certain cases. 

(3) Objects soaked in benzine and other light coal-oil products have 
the larva3 and eggs destroyed, but they are liable to future attacks. 

(4) Naphthaline proves efficacious so far in preventing the ravages of 
insects, but complaints are made of its deleterious efiects on the health 
of laborators. 

(5) Insects and larvae of all kinds are destroyed in furs and fabrics 
when they are hung in a tight closet exposed to the evaporation of bi- 
suli)hide of carbon. But this effect is only temporary. 

(6) Corrosive sublimate or arsenious acid dissolved in alcohol or 
water in proportion not exceeding 3 per cent, of the poison, may be 
applied to furs by spraying, provided the skin is constantly worked 
while drying. This should be done in open air and with caution. Deer 
hair is very easily rotted, and should be cautiously treated on the 
leather side chiefly. 

The specimens are then stored in the grand series chiefly by form and 
use ; that is, clothing, tools, household articles, weapons, and examples 
of higher intellectual activities are grouped together. 

Whenever occasion demands, the specimens of a particular tribe, na- 
tion, or class of people are stored apart. The effort is thus made to 
give to each object all the scientific value which it possesses from the 
very start, and to render it accessible at once for the exhibition, the 
study or type, and the exchange series. 

Convinced that a great national collection should not be forcibly 
strained into subjection to any one scheme, the exhibition series, so far 
as they are completed, have been selected to illustrate all the lines of 
study pursued by anthropologists upon human activities so far as they 
can be set forth by things, pictures, or graphic tables. 

The dominant ideas according to which anthropologists in various 
parts of the world arrange their specimens may be called the concepts 
of classification. These concepts are race or tribe, material, structure, 
and function, i)rogress of invention, and geographical distribution. Ko 
perfect scheme can omit any one of these concepts. Methods can differ 



DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY 89 

only in the order iu which they are considered and the prominence given 
to each. 

It will be readily understood that the order iu which these concepts 
are taken decides the appearance of a museum. Each one of the first 
three— race, material, structure and function — may be and in fact is the 
ruling concept in some museums. To illustrate the methods pursued 
in these various institutions, and the lessons which they teach, several 
series are now being arranged, and will be on exhibition as below de- 
scribed. Indeed, some of them are now exposed to the public, but not 
completely installed or labeled. 

As an example of what may be done on the ethnical basis, all of the 
objects belonging to Eskimo art have been gathered in the East Hall 
and laid out according to the following concepts in the order named : 
function or use, location, evolution and varieties. Fourteen quite well- 
marked, areas have been noted among the Eskimo : Greenland, Labra- 
dor and Ungava, Baffin Land, ISTorthern Canada, Northern Alaska, 
Kotzebue Sound, Bering Strait, St. Lawrence Island and the main-laud 
on either side; Cape Nome, Norton Sound and Yukon Delta (a mixed 
area) ; Nunivak and the contiguous main-laud, Kuskokvim delta, Bristol 
Bay, Kadiak and vicinity; and for the Aleuts, the Aleutian chain. 

It must be distinctly understood that these areas are wholly second- 
ary to types and material. 

Iu order to ascertain the deficiencies as well as the riches of the Mu- 
seum, each implement, ornament, etc., is traced through the fifteen 
areas by means of a set of boxes, one for each area. All the objects in 
the Eskimo collection being placed in their appropriate boxes, the va. 
cancies will be at once apparent, and proclaim either that the people 
of that area do not use this device or that the National Museum has uot 
the good fortune to possess an example. In this work the curator has 
been greatly aided by Lieut. T. Dix Bolles, U. S. Navy, and Mr. E. B. 
Webster, paymaster, U. S. Navy. 

The curator will in the future be able to follow a similar scheme for 
several other peoples, but thinks that when the material iu hand does 
not fairly picture the total life history of a tribe or race, the best ad- 
ministration to make of the material is to show the elaboration of the 
various human arts, with a view ultimately to exhibit the progress iu 
culture of the whole race. Iu this line he has commenced to prepare 
the following series : 

(1) Sets of arrow- makers' tools from all available sources. 

(2) The shops, implements, and productions of the potter, with models 
and pictures of his furnace, processes, etc. 

(3) The sets of apparatus used by North American tribes for gam- 
bling, arranged typically and ethnically. 

(4) Outfits of narcotic indulgence, such as smoking opium and to- 
bacco, betel chewing, etc. 



90 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

(5) The apparatus of the primitive weaver, mat-maker, basket-maker, 
etc., in order to understand the origin of the textile art. 

Too much emphasis can not be laid upon collecting objects iu sets, 
outfits, suits, contents, packs, apparatus, panoplies, accoutrements. The 
elaboration of many useful and artistic forms has taken place in an 
adaptive fashion, as being part of a lot or set like the mutual change of 
form of insect and flower through the process of fertilization. 

When a single object, as a hammer, adze, wedge, hoe, spade, rake, 
plough, snow-shoe, etc., stands alone as an implement or a product, 
specimens thereof may be exhibited in series to illustrate the possible 
lines of inventive progress, care being taken always to note localities 
and the evidences of historical connection. 

In carrying out the scheme of which the Catlin and the Stanley gal- 
leries were the commencement, the curator has commenced to collect 
the actual color of all delegations visiting Washington and to gather a 
series of painted photographs as the foundation of an aboriginal album 
of our continent. In this matter great aid has been rendered by the 
Bureau of Ethnology. 

One of the greatest difficulties which a curator has to encounter is 
that which arises from fiilse location and insufficient data. In the Na- 
tional Museum, as well as in every other collection, are many precious 
objects gathered long ago, when it was considered sufficient to know 
that a specimen came from America, Africa, or Polynesia. This is one 
of the chief hindrances to a purely ethnological scheme, since it is oft- 
en begging the whole question to assign a specimen to a certain tribe. 
On the other hand, no harm can possibly come from putting things that 
are alike in the same case or receptacle. 

In order to ennoble this old and imperfectly described material the 
curator is collecting from absolutely reliable sources single objects and 
complete outfits of various kinds to act as guides. It has many times 
happened that one such specimen has really puthim in the jjossession of 
several, with this added, that the older objects are more absolutely free 
from the contamination of Aryan influences. For instance, all of Cap- 
tain Wilkes's American material is labeled northwest coast of America, 
which means anywhere from the Straits of Fuca to the Bay of San 
Francisco — a region occupied by many stocks of aborigines. The sub- 
sequent collections of Gibbs, Swan, Powers, Green, Ray, the officers of 
the Army, and the Bureau of Ethnology now enable the curator to defi- 
nitely locate all of Wilkes's specimens. 

The acquisitions of this department are indicated below, arranged 
geographically and topically. The States of the Union are arranged 
alphabetically and specimens from each are given separately with a view 
to stimulating in each an interest in our great national collection. A 
large number of the specimens accredited to the States were received at 
the New Orleans Exposition. Especial mention should also be made 
of the collections of the Bureau of Ethnology, Lieut. P. H. Ray, U. S. 
Army, and Dr. D. Bethune McCartee. 



DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 91 

ESKIMO AREAS. 

Greenland. — Mesli-sticks for netting (7), Capt. J. W. Collina. 

Baffin Land. — Steatite lamp and companion pot, Dr. E. Be.S8els (7393). 

Fo)^ Chimo. — Tliro wing-stick and case of one hundred and fifty Eskimo dominoes 
(15388), in three sets. 

Kotzebue Sound. — Three labrets and mask of wood, carving in bone, spoon made from 
sheep's skull ; kuife, blade, and core of jadeite ; harpoon point, five fish-hooks 
(1G8-J7), Woolfe. 

Norton Sound Region. — Wisps of sea grass for whipping the body in the bath, parka, 
housewife, haversack of fish skin, needles, and fish-skin boots, collections of E. W. 
Nelson. 

Nunivat Island Region. — Grease dish, Dall (16230). 

Kuskolrim Delta. — WaUet of twined basketry. 

Bristol Bay. — Stone ax, hats, women's coats, women's boots, head-dress, ear-pockets, 
knives, belt of reindeer teeth (1(3879), ivory carving containing figures represent- 
ing an Eskimo dance and game of strength (16902), J. W. Johnson. 

Aleutian Islands. — Wallets of twined basketry (16754, 16293), Dall and Bean ; Bidarka 
model for three rowers (16914), Department of State, New Orleans Exhibit. 

INDIAN TKIBES OF ALASKA AND CANADA. 

Klinkit of Alaska.- -War knife, carved wooden pipes, hair, and masks (16771, 170.')7), 
from Shaman's graves, Lieut. T. Dix BoUes, U. S. Navy ; one hundred and thirty 
photographs (16912), twined cylindrical baskets. 

Haida of Queen Charlotte Island. — Shaman's robe, Haliotis shell ornaments. 

Bella Bella of British Columbia. — Cedar bark basketry, Swan. 

Aht, Varcourer Island. — Dentalium, fish-hook of pearl shell (17655). 

Makah of Cape Flaliery and Vancouver Island. — Cedar-bark wallets, keln for holding 
food, wbale harpoon lines. 

Ottawa. — Doll, illustrating half-breed costume. 

Iroquois. — Bark canoe, and painting on glass of man and woman in costume. 

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE STATES. 

Alabama. — Choctaw basketry, seed dice, pump-drill still used by negro blacksmiths* 

(16955). 
Arizona and Neiv Mexico. — Twelve photographs Apache (17395), three Navajo prairie- 
dog arrows (17239), bow, arrow, and quiver of the Navajos (16871), large and 
beautiful woolen Navajo carpet (16928), Moki coiled basket trays, wicker coiled 
basket trays, woven dance-belts, painted aprons worn in snake dance. 

From J. W. Powell, Director Bureau of Ethnology. (Ace. 16870.) A collection 
of models exhibited by that Bureau at New Orleans, as follows : (76690) 
Pueblo of Oraibe, Moki, Ariz. ; (76691) pueblo of Mashonginavi, Moki ; 
(76692) pueblo of Schomovi, Moki; (76693) pueblo of Wolpi, Moki; 
(76694) pueblo of Shij)aneluvi, Moki; (76695) pueblo of Shemopavi, 
Moki; (76696) pueblo of Tewa, Moki; (76697) relief map of ancient 
province of Tusayan, Moki ; (76990) Casa Blanca cliff-ruin, Canon de 
Chelly, Arizona; (76993) small cliff-ruin in Canon de Chelly ; (76999) 
mummy cave cliff-ruin, Caiion de la Muei-te, Arizona: (76995) cliff-ruin in 
Mancos Canon, Colorado ; (76996) restoration, cave town on Rio de 
Chelly, Arizona; (76992) ruined pueblo of Wejegi, Chaco CaQon, New 
Mexico. 

*See page 90, bottom. 



92 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Arizona and New Mexico — Continued. 

Zuni specimens from the Bureau of Ethnology, collected by Col. J. Stevenson : 
(15874) pump-drills, darts and targets lor children's play, stone hammers 
of various patterns, tanned deer skin, pottery-making stools (starting 
stone, gourd scraper, rubbing or polishing stones), Cohonino tanned deer 
skin, bangs for the hair, breech-clouts, armlets, sashes, garters, rattles of 
gourd and tortoise shell, painted images of wood, seed-baskets, mortars 
and pestles, flaking hammers, paint and paint mortars, strainer (16392), 
and from Laguna corn bread and flour. From the modeling department 
of the Bureau of Ethnology the following models have been received : * 
(16970) Zuni, Wejegi, Taos, Tacoma, cliff ruins, small pueblo, Tegua, 
mummy cave, cliff fortress, seven models of pueblos, map in relief of 
Tusayan, two cave towns, Casa Blauca, ancient tower. 
California. — From Indians of Hupa Reservation, collected by Lieut. P. H. Ray, U. S. 
Army:* (172391) Head ornaments, hair-brush of vegetable fiber, necklaces of 
pine seed, dance dresses of buckskin adorned with grass embroidery, mats of 
twined basketry, stones for boiling mush, paint mortars, pestles and mortars; 
spoons of horn, stone, and wood ; mush-paddles, straight smoking-pipes of wood 
and stone, dance rattle of deer's trotters, basketry hats, ornamental baskets, 
grass and fiber for basketry, dip-net and seine twine and needles, salmon spear 
heads and harpoons ; Indian money of dentaliuni shell wound with fish skin, se- 
cured in cash boxes of elkhorn : chisels and wedges of elk horn, girdle of woven 
basketry and buckskin, dance hats of great value, pillows and stools of wood 
resembling those of Now Guinea, head scratchers, hammers and adzes of stone, 
fire-drills, stone frying and baking pans, obsidian and jasper knives of great 
beauty, bows and arrows of great beauty, harpoons, men's clothing ; dance aprons 
and cinctures of seeds, ornamented with straw work; dance wand of basketry, 
tobacco baskets, panniers, and cradles of basketry. From McLeod River Indians, 
from the collections of L. W. Green : (17414) Complete outfit of the bowyer and 
iietcher, shafts, resin, feathers, obsidian and jasper, pitching stone, chipper, 
sandstone, polisher, straightener, sinew, sinew-scraper, fish-skin padding, paint 
and brushes, saw, together with a beautiful outfit of bow, arrows, and quiver. 
From Mr. P. Crowley, of San Francisco : Complete outfit of opium-smoking, con- 
sisting of opium, pipes, match-boxes, brushes, trays, scissors, pipe-cleaners, 
roasting needles, stand, lamps, Chinese cups, and laundry stamps (17215.) 
Dakota and Indian Territory. — Collection of Governor Furnas, of Nebraska, among 
Sioux Indians : (17069) Pemmicau maul, pipes, buffalo lance, clarionet, war clubs, 
quiver -and arrows, rattle, carved spoon, head-dress, lariats, tomahawk pipe, 
photographs of Siuux; models of Sioux chiefs, life size, in plaster, by M. Collin ; 
photographs of Winnebagos, model in plaster of Pawnee scout, model of Arrapaho 
Chief, Red River car and harness, head-dress of war chief and parflesh case, bows 
and arrows of Crow Indians, photographs of Osages. 
District of Columbia. — Game of shuttlecock. 
Georgia. — Baskets from New Orleans Exposition (16188). 
Indiana.* — Models of Studebaker's wagons and carts. 
Kentucky. — Pictures illustrating industrial life in that State. 

Louisiana. — Specimens from the Choctaw and Shetimasha Indians. Baskets of cane, 
calico dresses, blow-guns and darts, bows and arrows, raquets for foot game, 
beaded moccasins, belts, and caps (16953.) 
Maine.* — Passamaquoddy Indians, baskets (17658). 
Maryland.* — Rude pipes (17364.) 

Mississippi. — Home-made basketry, palmetto and shuck hats, horse collars, wooden 
trays and dishes (16961). 

* See page 90, bottom. 



DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 93 

New York. — From General Porter, complete opium-smokers' outfit (17198) ; from Peck 
& Snyder, series ofmodern games, dumb-bells, gymnastic apparatus, croquet, box- 
ing-gloves, archery, cock fighting, and theatrical outfits, Indian clubs, skates, la\Yu 
tennis, lacrosse, base-ball, foot-ball, foils and masks (11187). 

From the Co operative Dress Association (1209G), lesthetic dress of 1882, mod- 
ern adaption of ancient Grecian dress. 

From Capt. Charles Bendire, snow-shoes from the Adirondacks (17472). 

Neiv Hampshire.— Pai^ev-han^ings of last century. 

South Carolina. — Frontier conveniences and .clothing. 

Texas. — Old gun-flints. 

Virginia. — Dental snnft' and plantation specimens. 

iVeyada.— From the Ute Indians, basket -hats, basket harvesting-wands, wicker cradles, 
fanning and roasting trays, water-tight archer bottles, carrying-baskets (1G956). 

Z7<a/(.— Quiver, bow, and arrows, rabbit-skin robes, photographs of headmen (13581) 
from Bureau of Ethnology. 

Wisconsin.— Vlooden shoes worn by Swede and Norwegian settlers (16726). 

Wyoming. — Saddle of Indians (17121). 

MEXICO. 

The objects from this locality are principally from the collections of 
Dr. Edward Palmer in Sonora and Chihuahua, and from the Mexican 
Government at the New Orleans Ex])osition. The donations include 
the following examples: (17111, 17070, 1GS60,)- Skull of Tarahuraara 
Indian, thirty-nine casj;s of Mexican antiquities made by Eufemio Aba- 
diano, illustrated atlas of Mexican social life and natural history, 
atlas of primitive husbandry, such as i)lantiug board, cactus fruit 
picker or tongs, primitive spade; wea])ons, including sling, bow, ar- 
rows, and wrist-guard of Tarahumaras; horse-trappings, bridles, sad- 
dles, blankets, stirrups, tether ropes, cinctures ; mealing tools, mortars 
and pestles, metates and mullers or bi azos ; textile products, many wicker 
baskets, wallets, bark cloth, sacks of pita and other native fiber, water 
filters, jars, water skins. 

Complete outfit of Guadalajara potter, consisting of clay in various 
stages of preparation, molds for modeling parts, molding tools of 
rosewood, paint and brushes, casts and vessels in different stages of 
completion, model of pottery, and drawing of shop. 

Household apparatus and utensils: Dippers of gourd, ladles, spoons 
of wood, mush sticks, chocolate-cups, stirrers, i>ulque-sieves, trough 
for washing. 

Articles of costume : Straw and palm hats, rain-coats, serapes, belts, 
sandals, specimens of coarse cloth, money-bag, wash-rags of pita fiber, 
hair-brushes of vegetable fiber. 

Furniture : Beds of cocoa and pita fiber, mattresses, pillows, floor 
mats, chairs, floor brushes, wooden trays, brooms, scrubbing brushes, 
chairs, shingie-jjius, fire-fans, torches, pot-carriers, head-bands, model 
of pulque gatherer, gathering nuts, water-carriers' yoke. 

Ceremonial objects: Masks, dance-rattles, incensanos, uniforms of 
l>olice and soldiers of different Mexican corps, fire-mattress, horse equip- 



94 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

equipments and trappings, in all seventeen suits ; quoits, stones for 
hop scotch, foot-ball, fiddle and bow. 

Works of art : Engraved and painted gourds, many specimens and 
patterns, lacquer plates, waiters and trays, straw ijlacques, photographs. 

MIDDLE AND SOUTH AMEKICA. 

Central America. — Carved jicara shells and gourd, packing baskets, planks hewed out 
with stone implements, a whole tree being wasted for each plank. 

Cuba. — Series of photographs of people and scenery. 

Javiaica. — Hats, basketry, brooms, brushes. 

Hayti. — Hammocks, canes, clay pipes, bastinado, mortar and pestle, vessels of turned 
wood, rope of pita fiber, lace wood w^hips, horse trappings, pack saddles, saddle 
hampers, photos, photographs of Presidents, seventeen oil portraits of Pres- 
idents, (17026) powder-boxes. 

Antilles. — Water-vessels and basketry, specimens of agave fiber, boxes of lignum- 
vitae.. 

British Guiana. — (16660) Native brushes of vegetable fiber, ornaments of seed-work. 

Venezuela. — Bead-belts. 

Argentine Eepublic. — Hair mats. 

Peru. — Spindles. 

BUROPi:. 

England. — Exchequer tally-stick (16214), shawls, hats, and cutlery from New Orleans 

Exposition (16690). 
Norway. — Tschukchi cross-bow, piggin, chopping-board, shoes. 
Belgium and Holland. — Wooden shoes, rope, clay pipes, horse-wrappings, album of 

costumes (16642), fishing-nets, and twine. 
France. — Fibers, charts, five models of ethnic types, life size ; ancient loom weights. 
Italy. — Hats, photographs of social life and costume, wine-flasks, Sicilian plow and 

yoke (16574). 
Germany. — Scythes, baskets, agricultural implements, and mechanical tools, canes, 

dolls, and toys, clothing, vases (16573, 16645). 
Busgia. — Harness and yokes, boots and shoes, clothing ( 16525, 16617). 
Turkey. — Charms, clothing. 
Scotland. — Shepherd check shawl (16646). 



Asia Minor. — Grecian bowl (16332). 

Syria and Arabia. — Writing apparatus, modern Syrian clothing, carvings in olive 
wood, stone and shell, turbans, shoes, veils, incense, inscriptions, hubble-bub- 
ble pipes, newspaper, pens (* 16413, * 16637, * 16995). 

Pejsm.— Photographs of New Orleans Exhibit, shawl, sandals, lacquer-box, and book- 
cover, clothing. 

India.-— Model of catamaran, casts of Hindoo faces, string of beads, sandals, torches, 
embroidery, entire outfit of betel chewer, image of the sun god, lac tray, shanka 
shells, kookrie or set of knives, fork and chop-sticks, clothing (16635, 17430, 
* 17306, * 17458, 17243, 17491, 16694, 16555, 16640). 

China.— Oi^cial hat-box, jade inkstand-holder, rattan dipper, student's book-case, 
clothing, historical illustrations, copies of Pekin Gazette, fans, screens, pictures 
on glass, rush table, bamboo shoe, writing materials, idols, quiver and arrows, 
inlaid plaque from Loochoo, bow and arrows from Formosa. A large number of 
these gifts were from Dr. D. B. McCartee. 

* See page 90. 



DEPARTMENT OF ETHNOLOGY. 95 

Japan. — Magic mirror, books, maps, photographs, clothing, model of house, weapons, 
idols, illustrations of natural productions, screens, painting on silk, social ob- 
jects, writing material, illustrated cyclopaedia. 

Corea. — Inlaid metal work, printing block of wood, books, illustrated works, sketches 
of Corean social life and natural history, screens and blinds, cabinets, stove, em- 
broidered badges, pillow ends, clothing, hats in great variety, oil paper coats and 
hats, mourning costume, matting, fans, shoes, rice bowl, and other foed imple- 
ments, feather ornament, varieties of paper, sadiron, mirror, stone ornament, 
money-bag, games of chauce, washing sticks, soldiers' dress, tweezers, pipes, 
hampers, knife, comb, full male, female, and child's costume, mourner's dress, 
map of Seoul, old screen in eight parts, lac canister and box, straw image. 

AFRICA. 

Madeira. — Photographs of costumes. 

Barlary States. — Grass fabric, embroidered and embossed leather, specimens of native 
cotton fabric, velvet embroidery, weapons in embossed leather scabbard, bask- 
etry, shoes, turbans, lamps, blankets, suit of clothing, threshing sledge, brass 
trays, water bottles. 

Egypt. — Pipes, shoes, lantern, scarabaei, and mnmmy. 

Madagascar. — Hammer, tent, map, bread, palm fiber. 

POLYNESIA. 

Samoa." — Whip of cocoa fiber, complete apparatus for kava drinking, cinctures, 

rugs. 
Sandwich Islands. — Photographs of natives, basketry, tapa cloth, straw hats. 
New Zealand. — Maori seed wallet, sj^ear head, fig leaf, " shell," model of outrigger. 
Australia. — Photographs of aborigines, views in Victoria. 

" See page 90. 



96 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



CHART OF THK ESKIMO COLLECTIONS IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

This chart is designed to show the locations in which each species of 
Eskimo apparatus is represented by specimens in the U. S. National 
Museum. The crosses stand for one or more specimens, and the vacant 
places merely exhibit the deficiencies of the national collections. The 
objects may be in use in such places, and doubtless in many cases are, 
but the fact can not be proved by this series. 





'6 
1 


o 

T3 


CS 

1 


5 

n 
M 


to 

1 

o 
.a 
1 


a 
c 

-§ 
o 


•I 
«i 

'S 

CO 
bX) 

.5 
'E 

K 


P< 

J 

ii 

■^^ 

o 

M 


03 U 

f^ a 

CO 


a 



a 

1 

o 


> 

§ 


i 

a 


|2i 


a 
p 




9 

CD 

a 
§ 

"IS 


ID 

< 


§ 

"no 
M 



1 






+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 
+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 
+ 


+ 


+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


















+ 

+ 
+ 












Thimbles • 




+ 


+ 


... 


+ 
+ 


•4- 
+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 

+ 


' + 


' + ' 


+ 


+ 




















+ 


+ 












+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 






Awl or bodkin 


+ 


+ 
+ 


+ 




' + " 


+ 
4- 


4- 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 
+ 





+ 
+ 






















+ 




















+ 
+ 
































+ 


+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 


.... 


+ 








+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 






















+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 

+ 
+ 


+ 


+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 












+ 










+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 


+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 


+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 










+ 














+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 






Snuff-tubes 
































+ 






+ 






+ 






































+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 












Fungus, snuff, and } 










+ 


+ 
+ 


+ 


+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
-1- 


+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 


+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 

+ 

+ 


+ 

+ 

+ 






Tobacco-boxes i 


















+ 








+ 
+ 


4- 


Canoe-attachments, spear-rests 
Canoe - attachments, cord-fast- 




+ 






+ 


+ 
+ 


+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 




+ 






















+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 
+ 

4- 

+ 


+ 
+ 





Cord-fasteners . . . 

Sledge-attachments, bells, 


.... 




+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 


+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 


+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 

+ 


+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
-t- 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 





Spear-attachments, guards, and 










Float-attachments, handles, 






+ 

+ 










+ 






+ 


4- 








Carved images, irory, stone, 
wood 




+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


4- 






.... 


Handles and toggles for work . 






+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 










+ 
+ 


+ 
1- 


+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 








+ 















+ 
+ 


+ 


+ 
+ 


+ 


+ 











+ 

+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 











+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 









Lance and harpoon points, 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 
+ 


+ 


Lance and harpoon fore and 


4- 


Lance and harpoon butts 


+ 


+ 




+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 







REPORT UPON THE WORK IN THE DEPARTMENT OF AMERICAN 
ABORIGINAL POTTERY IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE 
YEAR ENDING JUNE ao, 188G. 



By William n. Holmes, Honorary Curator. 



The department of aborigiual pottery lias been enriclied (luring the 
year by several very important accessions, numbering about 1 ,500 entries, 
but including a much larger number of pieces. In previous years the 
collections consisted to a large extent of modern products, most of which 
were derived from the pueblo towns of New Mexico and Arizona, but 
the body of the accessions of this year are prehistoric and represent 
localities widely distributed. over the American continent. 

The agencies through which these acquisitions were made are (1) 
those of the National Museum and the Smithsonian Institution, in- 
cluding donations, purchases, and the products of original research by 
the agents of these departments, an<l (2) tlioso of the Bureau of Ethnol- 
ogj^ through corres])onding channels. The bulk of the year's material 
has been acquired through the agencies of the latter orgauizatiou. 

From the Mississippi Valley and the more easterly sections of the 
United States collections were made chiefly by the agents of the Bureau 
of Ethnology, working under the supervision of Dr. CJyrns Thomas. 

They were obtained from mounds, graves, shell heaps, and from the 
surface of the ground, and include many pieces of the ordinary abo- 
riginal vases, pipes, etc., mostly of types already well represented in 
the collection, but of much importance and interest as filling up gaps 
in the series. In all there are upwards of 409 numbers. 

From the i)ueblo country the most important accessions are of the 
ancient wares of ea.steru-central Arizona au<l western-central New 
Mexico, and are the product of excavations made by Mr. E. W. Nelson. 
They consist chiefly of vases and fragments of the coiled and white 
wares of the earliest-known i)eriods of pueblo occupation and exhibit; 
a number of new forms such as are not found farther north. Mr. James 
Stevenson secured a number of ancient pieces from the province of Tu- 
sayan. 

The purchase of two collections of Mexican antiquities has added 
much to the collections of pottery. A small number of pieces come 
from the valley of Mexico, but the more important accessions are from 
H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 7 97 



98 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Oaxaca. The latter include a series of ceremonial vases elaborately 
embellished with figures of Tlaloc and other mythologic personages. 
A small collection, including both ancient and modern wares, was made 
in the vicinity of Guadalajara, by Dr. E. Palmer. The ancient pieces 
ai^e of types corresponding closely to those of Tula and the valley of 
Mexico. 

Important additions were made to our already rich collections from 
the province of Chiriqui, Colombia. The field-work was done by Mr. 
J. A. McNiel, and the specimens were acquired by the Museum through 
purchase and through donation, about 50 tine pieces having been pre- 
sented to the Museum by Mr. J. B. Stearns, of Short Hills, K. J. 

The work of classifying and arranging continued steadily during the 
year, and such progress was made that in June the hall was opened to 
the public, a small space only being reserved for the reception and 
classification of new collections. Careful attention has been given to 
the placing of the material with a view of avoiding confusion and of 
making the classification of the ware apparent at a glance. The great 
wall case is entirely filled with the modern wares of the American In- 
dians, the greater part of the space being devoted to the wares of the 
pueblo Indians. Beginning at the right, on entering the hall, the two 
first sections are occupied by the polished black pottery of the Rio 
Grande pueblos. Following this ware in order are the various products 
of the pueblos in the Kio Grande Valley, most notable among which are 
the artistic vases of Acoma. Beyond this, occupying part of the north 
and all of the west sides of the hall, are the striking products of the 
pueblo of Zuni, and on the south are the rich-colored wares of Moki. 
The modern products are confined exclusively to the wall case. The 
central case contains about 500 pieces of ancient pueblo ware, chrono- 
logically arranged; beginning with the most archaic forms on the lower 
shelves, ascent is made through the three succeeding groups to the earlier 
historic forms at the top. The remainder of the floor space is occupied 
by about twenty ebony cases, in which are placed small selected series of 
antique vases from Peru, Panama, Central America, Mexico, and the 
mounds of the Mississippi Valley. Behind the wall case, and extending 
the entire length, is a space fitted up with shelves, in which duplicates 
and fragmentary pottery are stored. 

The curator has been occupied during the year in preparing a paper 
on the remarkable collections from the i>roviuce of Chiriqui. The in- 
troductory pages are devoted to the geography, j)eoples, cemeteries, and 
to other general topics. The various objects of art are discussed under 
the three heads — stone, metal, and clay. The body of the work is given 
to a detailed study of the ceramic art. Especial attention is given to the 
decorative system of the Isthmian peoples, and the final chapter is de- 
voted to a study of life forms in vase painting. 

The study of this group of art products led to an investigation of the 
influence of textile decoration upon the ornamentation of pottery, and 



DEPARTMENT OF AMERICAN ABORIGINAL. POTTERY. 99 

a second paper was prepared which covers the tbllowiug topics : Form 
m the textile art, rehitiou of form to oruameut, textile oriuuneut, devel- 
opment of a geometric system of ornament within the art, geometricity 
imposed upon adopted elements, and the extension of the geometric sys- 
tem to other forms of art. These papers are accompanied by over 500 
illustrations, and will appear in the Sixth Annual Report of the Bureau 
of Ethuology. 

It is difficult to obtain a correct statement of the number of specimens 
in the collection, as much of the ware is iu a fragmentary condition. 

A very large and important series of vases is still retained in the 
Arch»ologic Hall of the Smithsonian Institution. It is expected that 
during the coming year cases will be built and placed in the pottery court 
to accommodate representative series of this material. 



REPORT UPON THE WORK IN THE DEPARTMENT OF ARCHEOLOGY IN 
THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 
1886. 



By Dr. Charles Eau, Curator. 



Ill the preparation of tliis report I liave foiiud it convenient to take 
up the more interesting accessions and treat of them by States. 

REVIEW OF IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS. 

NEW YOHK. 

The Natural Science Association of Staten Ishxnd sent for examina- 
tion a carving in sandstone representing the head of an Indian, and 
evidently of aboriginal workmanship (Fig. 1). The head, which was- 
l)resented to the association by Mr. George F. Kunz, of New York, 
measures 7 inches in height, and is made from a sandstone bowlder ; it 
never belonged to a complete figure. The carving shows a low fore- 
head, an aquiline nose broad at the base, full lips, and a well-formed chin. 
The eyes are fiir apart, and the cheek bciies remarkably prominent. It 
was found in Southfield, Staten Island, at a depth of from 12 to 18 inches 
in the swamp near the Fingerboard road. A full account of the discov- 
ery is given in the proceedings of the above-named association, May 10, 
188-1. 

The head is represented by a good cast in the collection of tbe National 
Museum. 

NEW JERSEY. 

Ten argillite imi>leinents of paheolithic tyi)e, from gravel-beds at 
Trenton, were received from Dr. Charles C. Abbott, the well-known dis- 
coverer of this class of primitive implements in that locality. Another 
series of such specimens has been promised by the donor. 

Mr. W. H. II. Chambers, of Pliiladelphia, presented twelve triangular 
arrow-head-shaped specimens of dark flint, which belonged to a subter- 
ranean deposit of three hundred similar objects, discovered on the farm 
of George Moore, on t!ie south bank of Ilancocas Creek, near Lumber- 
ton, Burlington County. When plowed up the flint blades were found 
standing upright in a circle, with the points downward. Fig. 2 repre- 
sents one of the specimens. 

101 



102 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

PENNSYLVANIA. 

Mr. A. F. Berlin, of AUeatown, LeUig k Couuty, presented five rude 
implements, four cutters, thirteen arrow-heads, and a notched sinker, 
all found on Lehigh Island, in the Lehigh River, near Allentown. Some 
of the arrow-heads are of the rare leaf shaped tanged type (Fig. 3).* 

Dr. J. J. Fullmer, of Philadelphia, sent for inspection a grooved stone 
ax, which he had found in Fairmount Park, in that city. The ax, which 
consists of a fine-grained sandstone, is remarkable for its length, and 
for having the rather shallow groove so near to the butt-end that it is 
difidcult to understand how it could have been used with a handle. 
The groove, moreover, shows distinct traces of wear. This ax has an 
analogue in certain European stone axes, in which the shaft-hole is very 
near the butt, and which, when hafted, would have presented the same 
difiBculties of manipulation. 

A cast of the specimen represented in Fig. 4 is now in the National 
Museum. 

VIRGINIA. 

From Mr. John B. Wiggins, of Chula, Amelia County, were receive"! 
specimens from an aboriginal mica mine in Amelia County, consisting 
of fragments composed of earih, charcoal, and mica, and a piece of the 
kind of stone (trap rock) of which the mauls used in obtaining mica 
were made. I take the following from Mr. Wiggins's letter accompany- 
ing the specimens : 

On examination I find that for acres around the John McCormick mine the ground 
has been dug over and the surface mica extracted. The method employed in break- 
ing the large quartz rock containing mica was by building fires and heating them, 
afterwards using heavy mauls made of the same material as the fragment of stone 
ioclosed. I beg to say that the early workers of these mines labored under great 
difficulties in obtaining the mica, and it must have been very highly prized by them. 

A small collection, consisting of a leaf-shaped implement, arrow and 
spear heads, grooved axes, a stone slab with a mortar cavity on each 
side, and a fragment of pottery from Massaponax, Spottsylvania County, 
was received from Mr. Robert P. Bigelow, of Washington, D. C. 

A valuable addition to the collection was a handled boat-shaped pot- 
stone bowl 13 inches long, found 8 feet below the surface on the west 
bank of the Potomac River, about 7 miles above Washington, in Fair- 
fax County, and x^resented by Mr. John W. Brock, of Philadelphia. 
This vessel (Fig. 5) is not finished by smoothing, but left in a rough 
state, showing the distinct marks of the tools by which it was fashioned. 

WEST VIRGINIA. 

From the Bureau of Ethnology was received a large collection from 
different localities in the Kanawha Valley, consisting of rude chipped 
implements (mostly celts), scrapers, perforators, arrow and spear heads, 

*Most of the received objects are of stone; whenever they consist of another ma- 
terial it ia specially mentioned. 



Report of National Museum, 1886.— Rau. 



Plate I. 






Fig. 1. Carved Indian head, Staten Island, New York. Catalogue No. 98133. 
Fig. 2. Triangular arrow-head, New Jersey. Catalogue No. 98740. i 
Fig. 3. Arrow-head, Pennsylvania. Catalogue No. 98304. i 
Fig. 4. Grooved ax, Pennsylvania. Catalogue No. 98(143. f 
Fig. 5. Soapstone vessel, Virginia. Catalogue No. 98045. J 



13EPARTMEKT OF ARCHEOLOGY. lOB 

bammer-stones, pit-stones, grindiug-stones, cup-stoiies, 8tone slabs with 
inortar cavities, jwlisbed celts, small hematite celts, grooved axes, dis- 
coidal stones, gaming disks, pierced tablets, ceremonial objects, tubes 
(one with a flattened and enlarged mouth-piece), stone pipes, bone per- 
forators, bone beads, bears' teeth (notched or drilled), shell beads and 
other ornaments of shell, and a number of copper wristlets. This col- 
lection contains many good specimens. 

The Bureau of Ethnology also delivered a collection from "Cemetery 
Mound," on Smith's farm, Kanawha County, embracing chijiped celts 
(some with polished cutting edges), arrow and spear heads, hammer- 
stones, pit-stones, pestles, polished celts (some of hematite), grooved 
axes, stone disks, pierced tablets, fragments of ceremonial objects, paint- 
stones, a stone pipe, perforated bears' teeth, and a number t)f unmodi- 
fied Cnio-shells. 

NORTH CAROLINA. 

Dr. J. M. Spainhour, of Lenoir, Caldwell County, contributed a speci- 
men of brown hematite from Caldwell County, in the form of an eg;g; 
with truncated smaller end. Such specimens may have been the heads 
of skin covered war-clubs, like those still or lately in use among certain 
Indian tribes; but it has also been suggested that they were nsed in 
some game, or perhaps as targets to be shot at with blunt arrows for 
the sake of practice. Placed upright on a pole, they would fall down 
when hit by a missile. 

AL ABASIA. 

From the Bureau of Ethnology : A small collection from a stone grave 
near Guntersville, Marshall County, namely, split and polished bear's 
teeth pierced with two holes in the middle, a strijig of small drilled 
canine teeth, and spool-shaped objects of copper. 

MISSISSIPPI. 

From the Bureau of Ethnology was received a collection from a group 
of mounds and graves, inclosed by an embankment and ditch, in Union 
County, containing rude chipped implements, arrow and si)ear heads, 
scrapers, a large flint digging tool of oval form, hammer-stones, pit- 
stones, stone slabs with mortar cavities, polished celts, stone disks, 
beads (of stone), an unfinished ceremonial object, fragments of a stone 
pipe, shell beads, bone perforators, land-turtle shells {Cistudo clausa 
Lin.), fragments of pottery, charred hickory nuts, part of a brass pen- 
dant, a curiously patched ornament of brass (four-sided and pierced), a 
thin plate of silver with the arms of Castile and Leon stamped on it, 
and fragments of human skulls and bones. 

OHIO. 

A fine boat-shaped object of banded slate, flat on one side and pierced 
with two holes, was presented by Mr. U. C. Duvall, of Washington, D. 



104 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

0. The specimen had beeii iouud iu a maize field in Berea, (Juyahoga 
County, Ohio. 

Mr. T. F. Spangler, of Zauesville, i)reseuted a collection of one hun- 
dred and nine arrow and spear heads, scrapers, etc., from the neighbor- 
hood of Flint Eidge, Muskingum County. These specimens — good rep- 
resentatives of forms and materials — were attached to niue serviceable 
tablets, on which they are exhibited. 

From Mrs. D. L. Nielsen, Vermillion, Erie County, were acquired two 
spear heads, and an object of porphyritic syenite, pertaining to the 
class of so called bird-shaped carvings found on the farm of C. Crouse, 
1 mile south of Birmingham, Erie County. The last-named specimen 
is not madeiu the shape of a bird, but formed alike at both extremities. 
{Specimens of this character are not very frequent. 

Mr. J. R. Nissley, of Mansfield, sent for inspection a small collection 
of choice relics, some of which were reproduced in plaster in the Museum. 
Among them is a disk of banded slate with a protuberance on each face 
(Fig. 6). It can be easily perceived that this piece was designed to be 
made into a ceremonial weapon by cutting out the portions above and 
below the protuberance, and by perforating the thick part. The original 
was found on the surface, 6 miles northeast of Sidney, Shelby County. 

Through Mr. Gerard Fowke, of Augasta, Bracken County, Ky., was 
received a collection numbering 1,178 si^ecimens from Flint Ridge, the 
well-known locality to which the aborigines resorted for quarrying chal 
cedonic flint of excellent quality, and where they have left the traces of 
their operations in the shai^e of numerous pits. Flint Eidge extends 
throngh several counties ; but the above mentioned collection camefrom 
Licking County. It consists of hammer-stones of flint, and quartzite, 
cores, rude implements (more or less leaf-shaped), cutting and drilling 
tools, and a large anvil stone. 

Some of the cores show very distinctly the facets produced by the re- 
moval of flakes, and are the best specimens of their kind found north of 
Mexico, which have ever fallen under my notice. 

From the Bureau of Ethnology was received a collection (snrtace 
finds) from Butler County. It contains arrow and spear heads, hammer 
stones, pestles, polished celts, grooved axes, pierced tablets, and a tube 
of banded slate. 

Further: A small collection from " Cemetery Mound," JNIonut Ver- 
non, Knox County, composed of rude stone imi)lements, bears' teeth 
flattened on both sides and perforated with three holes, a thin semi- 
lunar shaped object of copper (much corroded), fragments of human 
and animal bones, and pieces of a material of chalky appearance, 
which covered the skeleton. 

INDIANA. 

From Mr. B, W. Evermann, of Blooraington, Monroe County, were 
received leaf-shaped implements, arrow and spear heads, a polished 



Report of National Museum, 1886. — Rau. 



Plate II 









Fig. G. Unfinished ceremonial object, Ohio. Catalogue No. 98748. i 

Fig. ('. Unfinished ceremonial object, Indiana. Oatalo^e No. 98436. 

Fig. 8. Ceremonial object — finished, Ohio. Catalogue No. .35G27. i 

Fto. 9. Lizard-shaped object, Illinois. Catalogue No. 98(562. i 

Fig. 10. Copper ornament, Kentucky. Catalogue No. 29 .32. i 

Fig, 11. Spade-.sliaped pipe, Tennessee. Catalogue No. 82890. i 



DEPARTMENT OF AKCILEOl.OGY. 105 

celt, a large grooved ax, a grooved niuul, a pestle, three i)ierced lableta, 
one-half of a ceremonial weapon, a biid-shaped object, and a natural 
formation (clay-iron stone;, from Carroll County, and au oval flat peb- 
ble of bauded slate thickest in the middle, having portions cut out at 
the smaller ends, with the intention to make it into a ceremonial 
weapon. This interesting piece (obtained in Howard County) is repre- 
sented in I'ig. 7, and in Fig. 8 is shown the form of a finished object of 
the same character, received from Ohio in 1879. 

A collection from Floyd, Llarrisou, and Crawford Counties, was pre- 
sented by Mr. John 11. Lemon, of Is^ew Albany. It embraces rude and 
leaf-shaped implements, cutting-tools, scrapers, perforators, arrow and 
spear heads, polished celts, grooved axes, pestles, and fragments of 
pierced tablets. 

A leaf-sliaped implement, arrow-heads, polished celts, a grooved ax, 
and a rude pierced tablet (mostly good specimens), from Wheatland, 
Knox County, were presented by Dr. E. C. Black, of Wheatland. 

ILLINOIS. 

The Museum is indebted to Mr. C. Armstrong, of Carrolton, Greene 
County, for the loan of a chi[)ped and afterward polished specimen of 
white jasper, in the form of a lizard (Fig. 9). This object, of which there 
is now a cast in the National Museum, measures 3 inches in length. 
It was found on the surface in Walkerville Township, Greene County, 
on what is known as the Illinois Eiver Bluffs. It may be of ornamental 
or totemic character. 

The Bureau of Ethnology delivered a collection from a mound near 
Mill Creek, Alexander County, namely:. Large rude chipped imple- 
ments, chipped celts, some with polished cutting edges, a spear head, 
an irregular polished tablet of pale-greenish tiuorite, pierced with two 
holes, shell beads and other ornaments of shell, bone perforators, drilled 
bears' teeth, worked stag horn, and fragments of animal bones. 

The pierced tablet is a very remarkable specimen. 

Further : Arrow and spear heads, a polished celt, a i)ierced tablet, 
spool-shaped objects of copper, and a compact earthy mass inclosing 
bears' teeth (partly notched), and fragments of bones, from a mound 
near Fountain Bluff, Jackson Couniy. 

Further: One hundred leaf-shaped imi)lenients of dark flint or horn- 
stone from a subterranean deposit of one hundred and ten, on the farm 
of John G. Simms, near De Soto, Jackson County. I have not yet 
learned how the specimens were arranged under ground. 

Further: A chungkee-stone (pierced and well finished), two Unio 
shells prepared to serve as spoons, and two thin sheets of copper, one 
square, with two human figures, with headdresses, apparently in the 
act of dancing, stamped upon it, and the other in a less good state of 
preservation, showing also a human figure similarly pro(lu(;ed. These 
objects came from a stone grave near Bluff Lake, Union County. 



106 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188(j. 

KENTUCKY. 

Mr. W. Kinney, of Portsnioutli, Scioto County, Ohio, presented a cop- 
l^er ornament from a moun<I in Greenup County, Kentucky. The speci- 
men is not in its original sliape, as represented in Fig. 10, but bent into 
the form of a lump, doubtless with a view to frustrate further use after 
its deposition. I have seen in Europe bronze swords bent double with 
the same intention. Mr. Kinney states as follows : 

The copper relic was Ibnud in an oiitlyiug moniul in Greenup Couuty, nearly oppo- 
site the mouth of the Scioto River, and one of the group so frequently referred to by 
Squier and others. This mound is in the first or low'^er river-terrace, while the main 
works are on the next. On one occasion half a hiishel of these ornaments w.as found 
in the same mound and sent to the smelter. 

TENNESSEE. 

The Bureau of Ethnology delivered a collection from a mound on 
McGee's farm, IMonroe County, namely: Small arrow-heads, polished 
celts, a pestle, discoidal stones, a very fine large semicircular tanged 
object (polished),* a clay pipe, a fragment of a stone pipe, drilled bears' 
teeth, shell beads and pendants, a carved and open- worked shell disk 
(gorget), cylindrical copper beads, glass beads (European), and two 
human skulls. 

Further : Grooved axes, pierced tablets, bone implements (needles, 
etc.), shell beads, ])in-shaped objects of shell, shell gorgets (disk- 
shaped), remarkable for the designs engraved on them (spider and 
human figures of Aztec character), and a rude shell mask (human face) 
from a mound on Faiue's Island, 3 miles southeast of Dandridge, Jef- 
ferson County. 

Further: Arrow-heads, hauimer- stones, stone pipes, bone i)erforators, 
bears' teeth, shell beads, pin shaped objects of shell, and a number of 
disk-like gorgets and masks (human faces) of the same material. Some 
of the former show well-executed designs of rattlesnakes, etc. From 
"McMahon Mound," Sevier County. 

Further : Flakes, rude chipped im])lements, scrapers, perforators, ar- 
row and spear heads, polished celts, grooved axes, pierced tablets, a 
spade-shaped pipe of chlorite (Fig. 11), bone perforators, shell beads, 
and a slender straight copper implement, H))^ inches long, square in the 
cross-section, and tajiering to a point at each end. 

Further: A large flint digging tool (oval), polished celts and celt- 
gouges (some very good), and a number of gamiug-disks (?), from Lauder- 
dale County. 

Further: A large collection from "Citico Mound," on McSpadden's 
farm, in Monroe County, embracing arrow-heads, polished celts and 
chisels, hammer-stones, pestles, stone disks, some of them polished, 

'I formerly called such specimens "scraper-like implements," but having afterward 
seen a large number of theifi, I am now inclined to class them as objects of orna- 
mental or ceremonial character. 



DEPARTMENT OF ARCHAEOLOGY. 10? 

pierced tablets, stone pi[)es, a frayuieiit ot a large put-stoue vessel, 
pieces of red mineral paint, drilled bears' teeth, bone ])erforators, sbell 
beads and pendants, pin-sbaped objects ol" shell, siiell masks (human 
faces), cl.iy vessels ornamented with raised figures, iucised lines, etc., 
and human skulls and bones, 

^Ir. Edward D. Hicks, of ^iS^ashville, sent to the National Museum 
three chipped flint objects, remarkable for large size and unusual forms, 
namely: A sword or truncheon-like article (Fig. 12), and an imple- 
ment (?) formed at one end like a crab's claw (Fig. 13), both from Uun)- 
l)hreys County. Also, a nearly circular disk (Fig. 14), measuring 9 
in(;hes in major diameter, and chipped to an edge around the circum- 
ference. This specimen, found in Stewart County, differs in make from 
the disk-like flint articles found in dei)osits. These three objects, of 
which casts were taken in the National Museum, are surface finds. 

Large specimens of gray flint, more or less analogous in form to 
those just mentioned, are in the Peabody Museum at Cambridge. Mass. 
They were likewise found in Humphreys aiid Stewart -Counties, in 
mounds and on the surface. 

MICHIGAN. 

Mr. D. S. Carvin, of Lyons, Fulton County, Ohio, presented a plat- 
form pipe. It consists of the mottled stone which forms the material 
of many of the pipes in the Squier and Davis collection, now m Eng- 
land. It was found in a maize field in Berrien County, Michigan. 

WISCONSIN. 

Two drilled beais' teeth, two bone ornaments, two small sheets of 
native silver, shape<l by beating, and six cylindrical copper beads from 
a mound at Warner's Landing, Vernon County, weie presented by Dr. 
J. L. De Witt, of aSTewton, Vernon County. The pieces of sheet silver 
are of special interest, being the first specimens of this kind given to the 
Museum. 

From the Bureau of Ethnology were received a leaf-shaped imple- 
ment, fragments of burned bones, a copper or brass kettle, and a num- 
ber of silver bracelets, gorgets, ear-rings, etc., from a mound in Craw- 
ford County. The objects evidently accompanied an intrusive burial. 

ARKANSAS. 

From the Bureau of Ethnology were received small arrow heads, ham- 
mer-stones, chii)])ed celts with polished cutting edges, polished celts, 
mullers, grindingstones, polishing-stones, gaming disks (?), bone per- 
forators, and pieces of worked stag-horn from an ancient Indian burial 
ground at Bi'adley's Landing, Crittenden County. 

Further: Rude leaf shaped implements, small arrow-heads, ])erfora- 
tors, hammer-stones, a polished f^elt, a semi-circular tanged object 



108 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, - 1886. 

(polished), a large quartz crystal, a bone perforator, aud fragments of 
animal bones from a mound in Pulaski County. 

OREGON. 

Mr. Charles Aldrich, of Webster City, Hamilton County, Iowa, pre- 
sented a well-shaped stone pestle with a ring-like projection below the 
tapering end. It was found near Grant's Pass, Josephine County, Ore- 
gon. 

ARIZONA. 

Mr. J. H. Carlton, of Pima, Graham County, presented a flake of chal- 
cedony, arrow-headSj hammer-stones, grooved axes, mauls, rubbing- 
stones, a metate, a i)estle, a small mortar, arrow-shaft straighteners, a 
polishing-stone, a pebble for smoothing pottery, a small paint muller, 
an anvil-stone of cylindrical form, a conical stone pipe, a pierced stone 
disk, shell ornaments, quartz crystals, a piece of unworked turquoise, a 
clay bowl, and fragments of pottery. The objects were all found in 
Graham County. 

NEW MEXICO. 

Mr. E. W. Nelson, of Springerville, Apache County, Ariz., sent a col- 
lection from ruins on the headwaters of the San Francisco Eiver, New 
Mexico, consisting of stone perforators, grooved axes, mortars, a pestle, 
a grindingstone, rubbing-stones, arrow-shaft straighteners, perforated 
cylindrical paint-stones, rock crystals showing use at the apex, frag- 
ments of red and green mineral paint, stone carvings in human and 
animal forms, bone awls, a bone whistle, pendants and beads of stone, 
shell and pottery, including one of turquoise, and two human skulls. 
The most remarkable piece in this collection, however, is a sandstone 
slab, nearly square, with rounded corners, upon which is carved in 
relief a rather conventional figure of a turtle. It is represented in Fig. 
15. 

From the same and the same locality, hammer-stones, grinding-stones, 
pestles, grooved axes, paint mortars aud mullers, " tanning-stones," 
one-half of a stone disk, fragments of a stone plate with many bi-conical 
perforations, a stone carving representing the head of a coyote, a stone 
carving in the shape of an owl, stone tubes and pipes, a small arrow- 
head, twenty-four flat j)ierced pendants of turquoise, two of which are 
represented in Figs. 16 and 17, a number of fragments of turquoise- 
pendants, bone perforators, fragments of a bone spear-head, a bear's 
claw, shell beads and other ornaments of shell, a truncated marine shell 
(Agaronia testacea Lam.), a small brass bell, a nugget of native copper, 
a piece of graphite, and pieces of red and green mineral paint. 

ALASKA. 

Mr. J. U. Johnson, of Fort Alexander, presented a spear-head-shaped 
knife-blade oi slate, two polished celts, and three adzes from Alaska. 



Report of National Museum, 1886.— Rau 



Plate III. 






Fig. 12. Sword-like chipped flint implement, Tennessee. Catalogue No. nSCC). J 

Fig. 13. Chipped flint implement— crab's claw, Tennessee. Catalogue No. 9S(j(J4. i 

Fig. 14. Chipped Hint disk, Tennessee. Catalogue No. 9H(i()3. J 

Fig. 15. Sandstone slab, with figure of tuitle in relief, New Mexico. Catalogue No. 9871.') J 



DEPARTMENT OF ARCII/EOLOGY . 109 

MEXICO. 

From Mr. L. H. Ayme, of Oaxaca, was acquired a large collection, 
consisting of obsidian flakes and cores, a hammer-stone, polished celts 
(one 11 inches in length), i)olishing-stoues, implements with two flat, 
deeply-striated faces (Fig. IS),* small stone pendants, a large stone slab 
with deep notches on one edge, a fragment of a pestle, a well-polished 
disk-shaped ear-pendant of jade (pierced near the rim), fragments of 
worked alabaster, a piece of stucco, beads made of entire shells either 
pierced with a hole or truncated at the apex, a large pierced shell 
{Strombus)^ a shell bead, a shell disk with central hole, fragments of 
shells, and a large number of calcareous pebbles of unknown use. 
Further, a number of stone carvings ; namely, two large human figures 
(one very well executed), a human head with widely-opened mouth 
(part of a figure), a tiger's head (part of a figure), and small squatting 
figures (human) pierced for suspension. 

GUATEMALA. 

Mr. Miles Rock, of Washington, D. C, presented a boulder with a 
face rudely carved on it from the ruins of Saculeb, near Huehueteuango, 
a ijlace supposed to be the ancient capital of the chiefs of the Mam In- 
dians; and also the greater part of a fetone disk, exactly a foot in di- 
ameter, having carved on it in relief a human head with an elaborate 
head-dress. It may be intended to represent the Sun. This specimen 
came from an altar in the ruins of an ancient temple on the summit of 
Cerro Ixbul, 40 miles southeast of Comitan, Mexico. 

NICARAGUA. 

Mr. W. W. Evans, of New Eochelle, Westchester County, N. Y., 
sent a large block of tufa, to all appearance of volcanic origin, which 
shows two impressions of small human feet, evidently produced while 
the tufa was in a plastic state. The material replaced by the feet has 
risen and forms a kind of ridge around the tracks. The history of this 
highly interesting piece is not yet known, but will soon be communi- 
cated. 

UNITED STATES OF COLOMBIA. 

By Mr. J. A. McNiel, of Panama, was sent a large collection from 
Indian graves of Ohiriqui, State of Panama. The collection is com- 
posed of trimmed flakes, arrow and spear heads, chisels, polished celts, 
metates of various shapes (some in the form of animals), rubbing-stones, 
baking-plates, a human stone figure (female), a human figure rudely 

"These stones resemble the wooden bark-heaters used by the South Sea Islanders 
in making tapa-cloth, and probably also were used by the Mexicans for making bark 
cloth or paper. I was informed that the people in Mexico employ at present these 
Htoues, which appear to be frequent, for crushing chilli. This, however, may be a 
.secondary use. 



110 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

ca^^'ed from a boulder, two large stone slabs showing in relief, respect- 
ively, the figure of a monkey and of an alligator, and five fragments of 
metates (heads of animals). Some of the celts are of very elegant form, 
as shown in Fig. 19, representing one of them. The arrow and spear 
heads chipped from flakes of flint and jasper frequently show the form 
of a three-sided pyramid. This form seems to be peculiar to Chiriqui, 
on the western continent, but it also occurs in greater perfection in 
Denmark and Sweden. A Obiriqui arrow-head of jasper is represented 
in Fig. 20. 

WEST INDIES. 

Mr. F. A. Ober, of Beverly, Mass., presented a collection from the 
Island of Nevis. It consists of four polished stone implements of re- 
markable forms, and apparently designed for crushing and smoothing 
I>urposes, three jiestles, a xiolishiug-stone, a fragment of a jade celt, 
and two celts made of shell. 

Messrs. Thomas Lee and Willard Nye, jr., connected with the U. S. 
Commission of Fish and Fisheries, obtained two polished celts on Abaco 
Island; a polished celt, a rubbing-stone, and a fragment of worked boue 
on New Providence Island 5 three polished celts, a chisel, a small drilled 
pendant of fine workmanship (perhaps jade), seventy fragmentary hu- 
man bones, embracing skull and* jaw bones and other parts of skeletons, 
and fifteen pieces of smooth pottery, from a cave on Watling Island. 

ROUTINE WORK. 

The entering of specimens has been performed according to the 
method followed in all departments of the National Museum. In the 
general catalogue the running number cf the specimen is noted, together 
with the private number, if there is one, and its character briefly indi- 
cated; there are further mentioned the locality where the object was ob- 
tained and the name of the donor or person from whom it was acquired; 
lastly, the date of the entry is given. This mode of recording would suf- 
fice for certain classes of natural objects, and, indeed, suffices for such 
stray antiquities as are simply taken from the surface ; but it is far from 
supplying the data required for archaeologic specimens found in graves, 
mounds, caves, shell-heaps, camping-grounds, deposits, etc. — in short, 
under circumstances calculated to elucidate the modes and customs of 
those by whom the objects were left. In such cases all attainable in- 
formation contained in letters, or orally communicated, is carefully 
noted in the "reference-book," which thus forms the supplement to the 
general catalogue — an archive affording the means of learning the his- 
tory of many single objects and collections exhibited- in this depart- 
ment. Whenever an entry is made in the reference-book, the page on 
which it is to be found is indicated in the last column of the general 
catalogue. The data recorded in the reference-book cover a perioil of 
several years. 



Report of National Museum, 1886— Rau. 



Plate IV. 








Fio. It). Turquoise pendant. New Mexico. Catalo^'ue No. 9H'.>5(;. \ 

Fig. 17. Tunjuoise jjendant. New ^lexico. Catalogue No. OS'>!.")t)a. \ 

Fig. 18. PolishinK-stone or Itarli-beater, Mexico. Catalogue No. KSaro. } 

Fig. 19. Polished celt, Cbiriijui, United States of Colombia. Catalogue No. 98.555. i 

Fig. 20. Jasper arrow-head, Chiriqui, United States of Colombia. Catalogue No. 9847 



DEPARTMENT OF ARCHEOLOGY. Ill 

The specimens liuuded to my care are carefully examined, aud the 
best and most characteristic set apart for exhibition. Duplicates which 
can not in any way add to tbe value of the collection receive a cata- 
logue number, but, instead of beinj? exhibited, are placed in drawers 
and reserved for exchanges. This mode of discrimination, however, is 
chiefly applied to the numerous specimens — mostly of chipped stone — 
which are found on the surface, but hardly ever to small or large col- 
lections of artefacts and human or animal remains obtained from graves, 
mounds, shell-heaps, caves, etc. Such objects, even when insignificant 
as specimens, are generally kept together and exhibited as a whole. 

I have for years followed a dualistic system in arranging the antiqui- 
ties of this country. Tiiere is, as I stated in my report for 1884, a large 
general collection (mostly exhibited in table cases), which consists of 
relics of clnpi^ed and ground stone, of copper, bone, horn, shell, clay, 
and, to a small extent, of wood. These objects have been grouped 
according to material, and then classed under such denominations as 
their forms indicated or suggested, and with strict regard to the transi- 
tion or evolution from simple to more developed forms. This arrange- 
ment offers to the intelligent visitor an opportunity to take in at one 
ghmce, as it were, the whole culture of the prehistoric Xorth American, 
as far as it can be represented by visible tokens. 

There are, secondly, the before-mentioned special or local collections, 
composed of Xorth American articles found in one locality — a mound, 
grave, artificial shell-deposit, etc. These collections are designed to 
show the difference in the mechanical acquirements aud modes of life 
of the people formerly inhabiting the various parts of this country. 

While comparatively few additions are made to the general collection, 
which as it is fully serves its purpose, the number of special collec- 
tions is constantly increased, aud thus, in the course of time, every sec- 
tion of North America will be represented. The collections in question, 
of course, vary much in extent; they some times only fill a tray, but 
occasionally occupy several shelves of an upright case. Ultimately 
they will bo arranged geographically. 

The observations thus far made relate to collections from portions of 
this continent north of Mexico, Central aud South America, Japan, etc.; 
aud a representative series of prehistoric antiquities from Europe. 

In the course of this fiscal year 119 special collections, small and large, 
have been i)laced on exhibition. By far the greater number (88) were 
delivered by the Bureau of Ethnology. The others are contributions or 
acjquisitions from private persons. The more im})ortant ones have been 
mentioned in the first section of this report. 

The number of duplicate specimens sent during the year to individu- 
als in exchange for objects received in this dcpartmenf, or in others, 
was comparatively small. A grooved stone mavd from the Moquis, 
Arizona, was sent to C. M. Sawyer, Mechanics' Falls, Androscoggin 
County, Miiine. The Kev. Mr. Kessler, Magdeburg, Prussia, received 



112 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

a collectiou of relics, embracing arrow and spear beads, a polished celt, 
a grooved ax, and fragments of pottery ; 05 specimens iu all. A grooved 
polished stone hammer from Arizona was forwarded to O. P. liodgers, 
Marengo, jMcHenry County, Illinois. To J. P. MacLean, Ilamilton, 
Butler County, Ohio, were sent five casts of an incised stone tablet 
found in a monnd at Waverly, Pike County, Ohio. 

Many persons visiting the department have taken notes and asked 
questions bearing upon the antiquities there exhibited, and all desired 
information has been promptly given. Such inquiries, it may be pre- 
sumed, were chiefly made for the sake of self-instruction, but probably 
also in some cases with a view to literary utilization. I had myself con- 
stantly occasion to re examine certain groups or series of specimens, 
being engaged in the composition of an illustrated work on ISforth 
American antiquities, which is designed to serve as a guide to visitors 
of the department, and will bear the title " A Classificatiou of the North 
American Prehistoric Eelics in the U. S. National Museum." More 
than half of it is iu manuscript, and an artist is engaged in making the 
drawings with which it will be illustrated. 

The present condition of the collection is given in the following tab- 
ular statement: 

TOTAL numbp:r of specimens enteked in this department. 

Exliibitiou and study series 40, 281 

Duplicates 8,482 

48, 763 

KECEIVED FROM THE BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY. 

From pueblos in New Mexico and Arizona for tlie years 1880 to 1882 .. 2, 695 
From mound explorations, etc. : 

For the year ending June 30,1883 4,285 

For tbo year ending June 30, 1884 (i, 436 

For the year ending June 30,1885 3,135 

16,551 

Total number of specimens 65, 314 

TOTAL NUMBER OF SPECIMENS RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR (INCLUDED IN THE 

ABOVE total). 

Exhibition and study series 2, 667 

Duplicates 84 

Total 2,751 



REPORT ON THE SECTIONS OF FOODS AND TEXTILES IN THE U. S. 
NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1S8C. 



By KoMYN Hitchcock, Acting Curator. 



In accordance with your suggestion that I slioald prepare a report 
covering, in a general way, the period of my connection with the Mu- 
seum, I have endeavored to give, in a condensed form, a review of the 
work done, and a statement of the present condition of the collections 
in my charge. The different divisions of work assigned to me cover so 
large a field that it has been impossible to give particular attention to 
all of them. My work has, therefore, been mainly confined to the two 
sections of textiles and foods. In addition to these I have received and 
classified material belonging to the following sections, as enumerated in 
the ''Scheme of Museum Classification" iiublished in the Appendix 
to the Proceedings of the Museum for 1881, viz : 

12. The elements aud tbeir combinations, chemical collectiona. 

21. Preparation of food-stuffs, narcotics, etc. 

22. Distillation, manufacture of perfumeries, etc. 

23. Oils, fats, soaps, and waxes ; their preparation and use. 

24. Gums, resins, glues, cements. 

25. Pigments and dyes. 

26. The chemical manufactures aud their products. 

29. Fibers, cordage, textile fabrics, needle-work. 

30. Paper and its manufacture. 

I have also taken charge of the Smithsonian collection of philosophical 
apparatus, which is on exhibition in the north hall. 

In a communication from you dated October 13, 1885, you expressed 
a desire that I would " take charge of all technological material, es- 
pecially raw materials and products not otherwise already assigned," 
and stated that " the greater portion of this will doubtless come to you 
permanently, as soon as tlie departments having an interest in such ma- 
terial are developed." Accordingly, I have endeavored to catalogue, 
classify and preserve a great mass of material that it would be impos- 
sible for one curator with a single assistant to study, label and prepare 
for exhibition. That material, however, is available for use at any time, 
and will some day bo of great value to the ]\[useum. 

In glancing over the names of the sections mentioned above, it may 
seem that they include rather a heterogeneous collection, but with the 
II. Mis. 170, pt. 2 8 113 



114 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

exception of the section of fibers, etc., it will be seen that they may all 
be included under pure and applied chemistry, and are, therefore, more 
or less directly connected, although very i>roperly separated in different 
sections for museum purposes. 

The section of textiles has engaged my attention most fully during 
two years. My connection with the Museum dates from November, 
1883, when an office in the east tower, on the ground floor, was assigned 
to me, Mr. F. H. Towne, who had i)reviously been engaged on the col- 
lections as preparator, acting as assistant. A few specimens of textile 
fibers and fabrics were then on exhibition, but without labels, in the 
west hall. A large number of specimens of foods in bottles were on ex- 
hibition in the northwest range, but very imperfectly classified, and 
not selected with discrimination. A large collection of fibers and 
fabrics, mostly from the Centennial exhibition of 1876 was still un- 
packed and required attention. These were immediately prepared for 
study. The different divisions of work will now be separately re- 
viewed. 

The early work in this section was very much retarded, and some of 
it was not very perfectly done, so that it required subsequent revision, 
owing to the want of necessary books of reference. A sectional library 
was soon provided, which has served very well, but even now some very 
useful books of reference are not avail^^ble. It was soon found that 
much of the accumulated material was of little value, owing to deteriora- 
tion by long keeping, the loss of marks for identification, and other 
causes. Gradually such specimens were eliminated, and the plan has 
been followed throughout the section to discard all specimens of even 
doubtful identity, except when it was thought their identity might be 
established in future, in which case, when the specimen was a good one 
that might not be easilj^ replaced, it was catalogued and held in re- 
serve. 

Four series of specimens are provided for in this section, viz : exhibi- 
tion series, study series, reserve series, and duplicate series. 

This series includes all specimens mounted for exhibition. Owing to 
the limited space on the Museum floor the mounted specimens are not 
all on exhibition at the present time, but the unit boxes containing them 
are ready for display when space permits. Every specimen in this se- 
ries is provided with either a written or a printed label. 

A system of marking the catalogue cards has been adopted which 
indicates at a glance when a specimen is in the exhibition series and 
when a label has been written for the ijriuter. The mark o on a cata- 
logue card indicates that a specimen is mounted for exhibition and if fol- 
lowed by a check, thus o /, the label for printing is written. 

The system of classification proposed some time ago in one of my re- 
ports has been carried out in a general way, but the collection is so 
broken up by the necessity of storing specimens that should be shown, 
that the sj'stem can not be strictly adhered tq. Beginning at the ejii- 



SECTIONS OF FOODS AND TEXTILES. 115' 

trance of the court (the collection is now in the northeast court, occupy- 
ing about one-half of the floor-space), the visitor first comes to the textile 
materials nsed in their natural condition, such as rough barks, made 
into ropes by Indians and iirimitive tribes in different countriesj esparto, 
made into coarse mats in Spain; palm-leaves, woven into baskets, hats, 
etc. Then may be seen varieties of tree-down, often known as tree- 
cotton, including the palna of Brazil in variety, showing how the down 
occurs in the seed-pods, and thepuhi of the Sandwich Islands. These 
materials are used, without preparation, for stuifing. Then follow va- 
rieties of fibers extracted from stalks and leaves of plants, the coarser 
ones used for ropes, the finer for yarns suitable for knitting and weav- 
ing. Among these is a good series representing the ramie industry, 
which may become of considerable importance to this country; collec- 
tions of New Zealand flax, common flax, agave fibers in great variety, 
and many others, leading up to cotton. The manufacture of cotton 
thread is represented by a case of eight unit boxes, mounted especially 
for the Museum by the Willimantic Linen Company, and is one of the 
best exhibits in the series. Following cotton come fibers from the 
animal kingdom, horse-hair, wool, and silk. 

Some attempt has been made to prepare a good display of spinning 
and weaving appliances, but the space is too much restricted to per- 
mit of i)roper display of what apparatus we have. A case is filled with 
spinning-wheels, reels, etc., which were in use many years ago in the 
preparation of flax, cotton, and wool yarns for hand-looms, but it is not 
as attractive or instructive as it should be. It is interesting to com- 
pare the primitive implements used for the same purposes in different 
countries, examples of which are shown. For instance, there is a hand 
reel of the present day from Siam, which is precisely like the common 
English reel, except that in the former the cross-pieces are in one plane, 
while in the latter they are i)laced at right angles. This very slight 
change makes the English reel, of a century ago far more convenient 
to use than the one now in use in Siam. 

Among the looms may be seen some very excellent specimens from 
various parts of the world. Perhaps the simplest are those still in use 
by the Indians of JSTorth America, of which, however, there are several 
varieties. In one case a fine Pimo Indian loom, collected by Dr. Edward 
Palmer, is well shown and described, A Moqui loom ?s also shown, but 
not in as good condition. Quite recently a Zuui loom was set up and 
some weaving done upon it by the Indian girl Wawah, thus enabling 
me to follow the successive operations and understand them better than 
has been i^ossible from written descriptions. A loom of the Talamanca 
Indians, of Costa Eica, with specimens of cloth, is of interest. A loom 
from the Aiuos, of Japan, is also of special interest in connection with 
the Indian loom, owing to certain distinguishing features in the device 
for opening the warp for the passage of the shuttle. 

A number of photographs of the Indian girl Wawah engaged in the 



116"' REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

various operations of spinning, preparing loom and warp, and weaving, 
were taken, and are used to illustrate the methods of work among the 
Zunis. 

The study series of fibers includes authentically named specimens in- 
tended for microscopical examination. Appended to this report is a spe- 
cial article on preparing microscopical mounts of vegetable textile fibers. 
The study series is valuable, indeed, absolutely necessary, as it is not 
unfrequently required to use small portions of fibers for comparison 
with others for identification. Occasionally requests for typical speci- 
mens of fibers are received, which have been supplied from the study 
series. It is expected that specimens will be sent to the Museum for 
identification from time to time. The study series will afford a means 
of identification probably better than can be elsewhere found. It is not, 
however, by any means complete. Every distinct fiber in the textiles 
collection is represented in this series, but not every fiber in use is so 
represented. 

An alphabetical catalogue of objects in the study series is kept on cards 
in the ofi&ce of the curator and a list has been prepared and is published 
as an appendix to this report. 

When small specimens of textiles are received that seem to possess 
a scientific rather than popular interest, or which are for some reason 
not suitable for exhibition, they are placed in this series. 

The reserve series includes specimens of value for purposes of ex- 
hibition, which can not be immediately mounted. When such speci- 
mens have been catalogued they are marked " reserve," and placed in 
drawers in numerical order, and the fact is noted on the catalogue card. 
If a portion is desired in the study series it is selected at the time and so 
indicated on the catalogue card. 

The duplicate series includes those specimens available for ex- 
changes. These are stored in drawers or in storage boxes. A special 
series of cards, numerically arranged, ^ives a list of the specimens in 
this series and indicates their location. The specimens in general stor- 
age, however, are enumerated on special storage catalogue cards, bear- 
ing the storage number of the boxes and a list of their contents, so that 
any specimen can be obtained without delay. 

An alphabetical list, arranged by both common and botanical names, 
of all the specimens in the collection, including all in the four series 
enumerated above, has been prepared, and will some day be submitted 
for publication. 

The arranging of the textiles collection in accordance with the plan 
outlined above has been perfected, and its advantages are apparent in 
the ease with which new material can be handled. Immediately a new 
specimen is received, the general alphabetical list shows whether it is 
new to the collection or is from a new locality. Its value can be deter- 
mined at once, and its place in one of the four series assigned to it. 
Thus an accumulation of useless material for exhibition is avoided, and 
the collections are maintained in good order. 



SECTIONS OF FOODS AND TEXTILES. 117 

SECTION OF FOODS. 

In this section it is intended to sliow specimens of foods that may 
possess special interest, especially suck as arc used by primitive peo- 
ples and in foreign lands. A more important feature, however, will be 
to afford information concerning the nutritive value of various articles 
of food in daily use, and to aid in the dissemination of knowledge upon 
the important subject of nutrition. The relation between the cost of an 
article of food and its value for nutritive purposes is an important con- 
sideration, especially for the poorer classes of laboring people. It has 
long been a matter of pride with us that the laboring classes in the 
United States live far better than those doing the same work in foreign 
countries. But they are enabled to do so because they receive higher 
wages and it seems not improbable that the growing com})etition be- 
tween nations will require greater economy in labor here, and it will 
then be necessary for the poorer classes to exercise more economy in 
living. It becomes, therefore, very desirable to learn not only what 
are the most nutritive foods, bat, a matter of greater practical impor- 
tance, what are the cheapest and best foods to buy. Also, what are the 
best combinations of food, and how these should be prepared. Some of 
these questions have been carefully studied by Prof. W. O. Atwater, 
and the results of many analyses made by him are now available for 
use in this section of the Museum. As a matter of fact, there is no 
doubt our laboring classes are living extravagantly and that by in- 
telligent direction, involving instruction in the art of cooking as well 
as in the selection of proper food, their expenses can be considerably 
reduced without detriment to the excellence of the food provided. 

The collections in this section are not yet sufficiently advanced to 
demonstrate these purposes in view. It will be the work of consider- 
able time, but a beginning has been made in two cases now on exhibi- 
tion. The first of these illustrates the chemical composition of the 
human body, showing on one side the elements found in the bod^^, in 
their relative proportions ; on the other side the principal compounds. 
In the second case are shown specimens illustrating the daily income 
and expenditure of the body, and the quantity of various constituents 
of food required to supply the waste. The constituents of a ration for 
one day are shown and the transformations they undergo in the body 
are described. The composition of a loaf of bread is also illustrated by 
specimens. These examples will indicate the practical and instructive 
tendencies of the exhibits in this section. 

A collection of foods used by the Indians of Xorth America is now 
arranged, including all the specimens now on hand, and occupies two 
full cases. It is not complete and can not be made so until a competent 
and exi)erienced collector, like Dr. Edward Palmer, who is better ac- 
quainted with this subject than any other person, is commissioned to 
travel among the Indians and supply the deficiencies. It is very desir- 
able that this should be done as soon as possible. 



118 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Among the specimens of general interest may be mentioned a case 
of Japanese foods received from the Department of Education at Tokyo, 
which includes many curious products. Another case is filled with 
preparations of animal foods from various localities. Another case con- 
tains farinaceous products. 

There is still in reserve a great variety of food-products, some of 
which are useful for display j others will be eventually discarded. Time 
has not permitted the arranging of these. 

Little has been done in the section of chemical manufactures, but 
such specimens as have been received have been cared for and a few of 
them placed on exhibition. An excellent series of chemical elements 
and compounds will soon be systematically arranged for display, prob- 
ably during the month of July. 

It is intended to represent in this section the chemical industries of 
the country as fully as possible by museum specimens and photographic 
views of processes and apparatus. 

A desideratum in connection with the work of this division is a lab- 
oratory equipped with the necessary apparatus for chemical work. It 
need not be large or expensive but it should afford facilities for a certain 
amount of analytical work, both qualitative and quantitative, and 
especially for the preparation of compounds that are required in the 
exhibits. The want of such a laboratory has been keenly felt not only in 
this but also in other sections in my charge. 

A considerable quantity of material, to be distributed among the 
various sections not yet provided for on the floor of the Museum, has 
been received. It is all classified and stored on the north balcony, 
where it is available for use at any time. This includes gums, resins, 
dyes, pigments, oils, fats, soaps, waxes, perfumery, essences, and other 
articles. 

The following table shows the present extent of the collections : 

Specimena. 

Textiles on exliibitioa 1, 199 

Textiles in study series 317 

Food products on exhibition 594 

Chemical products on exhibition 659 

Total 2,769 



REPORT ON THE SECTION OF STEAM TRANSPORTATION IN THE U. S. 
NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1886. 



By J. Elfreth Watkins, C. E., Honorary Curator. 



The sectiou of steam transportatiou was organized and placed under 
my charge on the 13th of June, 1885. 

It is the design of this section to illustrate by drawings, models, rel- 
ics, etc., the birth and development of steam transportation in America, 
both on water and on land, so that the humble mechanic who visits the 
Museum may be able to take away with him an intelligent idea of the 
successive steps in the progress of invention of steam appliances, that 
have led up to the ocean steam-ship and the fast passeuger express and 
powerful consolidated freight locomotives of today. 

It seems indeed proper that an attempt should be made to preserve 
the history of this department of industry, which has had such an im- 
mense influence upon the growth of our nation and the development of 
our civilization during the nineteenth century. 

It is estimated that up to January 1, 1886, 130,000 miles of railway 
had been built, and $7,500,000,000 had been invested in railway stocks 
and bonds in the United States, and over $2,000,000,000 in steam-ships 
touching at American ports and steam-boats navigating inland streams, 
a total of nearly $10,000,000,000— ten billions of dollars. 

In 1883 the total taxable property, real and ijersonal, as assessed to 
the thirty-eight States, was $17,026,307,374.* 

The ceusus tables of 1880 give the following enumeration of people 
in the United States who are connected with the transportation indus- 
try: 

Steamboatnien, stewards, etc r)r>, 53G 

Railway officials, clerks, and employes 250, 458 

Express officials, clerks, and employes 14,860 

Transportation companies and enqiloyds 9, 702 

Total 8:^0,556 

Of the 17,392,000 persons engaged in all branches of labor, trade, 
manufacture, and professions in the United States in 1880, the number 

* Seo Spoflbrd's American Almanac, 1884, page 105. 

119 



120 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

of employes of railway, express, aud transportation companies was ex- 
ceeded only by the following classes : 

1. Agricultural laborers, who numbered 3,323,876 

2. Farmers and x^lanters, who numbered 4, 225, 945 

3. Domestic servants, who numbered 1, 075, 653 

4. Laborers, unclassified, who numbered 1,859,223 

5. Carpenters and joiners, who numbered 373, 143 

6. Clerks in stores, who numbered 353, 444 

As Kos. 1 and 2 are practically one class, and No. 4 is no class, rail- 
way and transportation employes are the fifth class in point of number. 

Of the 55,000,000 of inhabitants of the United States, what class is 
not directly interested in the progress of invention, whereby we enjoy 
speed, comfort, and safety, in transportation by steam over our rail- 
roads aud water-courses? 

The following preliminary scheme for the organization of the section 
was suggested by the curator, aud indorsed by the Assistant Secretary, 
in October, 1885. It will be modified from time to time as circum- 
stances may permit. 

PRELIMINARY SCHEME OF ORGANIZATION. 

To obtain originals or models of early steam-boats, locomotiv^es^ 
track, cars, etc., with history enough of each to make a label. Show 
early experimental track and short pieces of various patterns of rail. 

To obtain drawings or photographs of early steam-boats, locomo- 
tives, etc., to be arranged on hinged frames, in accordance with the 
system now in use in other sections and departments of the Museum. 

As soon as practicable, to issue a circular letter, under the authority 
of the Smithsonian Institution, giving an outline of the scheme, to be 
forwarded to engineering and scientific societies, railway officials and 
employes, urgently requesting their co-operation and suggesting the 
formation of a National Eailway Historical Society. 

When the section has made some progress, to issue a bulletin giv- 
ing a general history of early steam-boats and locomotives and the 
birth of the American railway system, as exemplified id the collections 
of the National Museum. 

To create a sectional library, which shall contain all books, maga- 
zines, pamphlets, obtainable that bear on the history of American rail- 
ways, and in this section of the National Museum to keep a catalogue 
containing the names of the authors, title of book, publisher, etc., with 
directions as to where such book may be found, for the benefit of such 
persons as may be interested in these subjects. 

In connection with the history of trans]X)rtation in general, to show 
pack horses, freight wagons, stage coaches, early canal boats, post boys, 
mail coach, etc. 

To show by models, drawings, aud relics the develpment of the sta- 



Report of National Museum, I 836.— Watkms 



Plate I. 




^ ^ 



cc ^ 



O -2 



SECTION OF STl'^AM TKANSPOUTATIOX. 121 

tioiKivy steaiu-eugiiic and the bej;iiiiiiugot'invc'iitiou of the .steam-boat, 
lot'Oiuotives, passenger and freight ears, etc. 

It was not until November, 1885, that any space in the Museum was 
assigned to this section. In. that mouth the locomotive " John Bull," 
engine ^STo. 1, Camdeu and Araboy Kailroad Company, 1831, was placed 
upon exhibition. While by no means the first, this is the oldest loco- 
jnotive in America. It ran the first train on any road owned, leased, or 
operated by the Pennsylvania liailroad Company, and was presented 
by that corporation to the National Museum. The locomotive in PI. i 
is drawn from a tracing made by Isaac Dripps, of Philadelphia, the 
first person on this side the water to run Is'o. 1, from the original 
working drawing, which accompanied this locomotive from the works 
of Stephenson & Company, Newcastleon-Tyne, England, in 1831. 
This tracing is on a reduced scale j the tender is from a drawing by 
]\Ir. Dripps, and the two cars are from a cut which was used by the 
manufacturers, M. P. & M. E. Green, of Hobokon, N. J., as an adver- 
tisement in 1832. The whole was put together and was reduced to the 
same scale under the supervision of Mr. Dripps. A section of the origi- 
nal track, consisting of stone blocks, iron rails with a base, iron joint 
" tongues" (PL ii, fig. 1), ^' hook headed spikes " (PI. ii, fig. 2), rivets 
(PI. II, fig. 3) through the stem of the rail, has been presented to the 
Museum. This relic was originally collected by the late Col. I. S. Buck- 
elew, for many years superintendent of the x\mboy Division of the Penn- 
sylvania Railroad until his death, November 21, 1884, and given by him 
to the curator, who has presented it in his name to the Museum. It is 
a most valuable relic, since it exemplifies the earliest period of the in- 
ventions which have since developed into the American system of per- 
manent way. 

In 1831 the track of this company was unique. After a lapse of half 
a century the cross-tie has superseded the stone block, it is true, but 
the rail with the base, the "hook-headed" spike, the " tongue" length- 
ened and strengthened into the splice-bar or fish-plate, and the " rivet" 
changed into a bolt and nut, is found in all standards of American 
track. This section of track was examined by the late Ashbel Welch, 
C. E., past president of the American Society of Civil Engineers, who 
was present at the opening of this portion of the road, and afterwards 
became chief engineer and president of the system to which the Cam- 
den and Amboy Eailroad was attached. From memory and notes he 
pronounced it and the description authentic. 

Sections of "fish-bellied" rail, with chair, imported from England in 
1832 by the New Jersey liailroad Company, and laid near Newark, 
have also been obtained, together with cross-sections of various pat- 
terns of rail experimented with between 1835 and 1845. 

By a careful search through the files of the Patent Office for plans of 
switches, frogs, signals, splices, etc., in which work I received the 



122 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

courteous assistance of tlie exauiiuers iu charge, quite a number of 
drawings which accompany the patent specifications were found. These 
are of great interest, showing the Huctuatious of thought at various 
intervals. It is intended to arrange these for exhibition at some future 
time. 

The loss of models, etc., by the fire of 1877, is to be deplored, as a 
wide field for investigation was destroyed by this occurrence. 

Lack of time has prevented me from giving much attention to steam- 
boats and marine engines. While the collection is meager, it is a nucleus 
which, I trust, will attract the attention of marine engineers and steam- 
ship builders. Their co-operation in this direction would be invaluable. 

A portion of the chain gearing of Eumsey's original steam-boat, which 
was used on the Potomac River in 1787, is in the collection. 

Efforts are being made, with promise of success, to obtain drawings, 
etc., of many of Ericsson's inventions. 

In the museum of the Stevens Institute, Hoboken, N. J., may be seen 
the original machinery of the propeller steam-boat, invented and con- 
structed by Col. John Stevens, and navigated by him in 1803 and 1804. 

A drawing of this machinery has been obtained, and a sketch of what 
Is left of the original propeller, which is also at Stevens Institute, and 
which is a most valuable relic, is j^romised for our collection. I am in 
hopes of having a duplicate made at some future time. 

A sketch of Fulton's Clermont, 1807, and a drawing of the machinery 
of this historic boat will shortly be placed on exhibition. 

Plan of Fulton's original ferry system, steam-boat with single paddle 
wheel in center, and floating bridge, and slip at dock, 1812, has also 
been obtained. This is a fac-simile, on a reduced scale, of the original, 
drawing made by Eobert Fulton. 

Through the kindness of Mr. Francis B. Stevens, grandson of Col- 
onel Stevens, of Hoboken, N. J., and nephew of Eobert L. Stevens, who 
built and navigated the steam-boat Phcenix, launched in 1807 (two 
weeks after Fulton's Clermont), a photograph from an oil-painting of 
this historic boat, the first steam-boat to navigate the ocean (from Sandy 
Hook to Cape May), has been obtained. 

Mr. Isaac Dripps has had constructed a model one eighth of full size, 
in brass, of what he claims to be the first screw-propeller ever placed in 
the stern of a steam-boat, before the rudder, on this side of the Atlantic, 
and has presented it to the Museum. The original propeller- wheel was 
constructed by Mr. Dripps in 1837, and was by him attached to the 
steam-boat New Jersey, which, by the way, was the first iron steam- 
boat to cross the Atlantic. It was the use of this propeller that caused 
the differences between Captain Ericsson and the Stevens brothers, re- 
sulting in the legal establishment of the fact that their father navigated 
the propeller steam-boat alluded to above on the Hudson iu 1803-''04. 

One of the iron plates from the hull of the New Jersey, collected by 
Colonel Bucklew, is also a part of the Museum collection. 



Report of National Museum, 1 886.— Watkins. 



Plate II. 




is W 



Fig. I. 



Fig. 3 



Details of Track, Camden and Amboy Railroad, 1831. 

Fig. 1. Iron tongue to hold rails together at joints ; one tongue only used at each joint. 
Fig. 2. Iron rivets (put on hot) to join tongue to stem of I-rail— two rivets used at each joint. 
Fig. 3. "Hook-headed spike," so called because the head only extended beyond one side. It was de- 
signed to fasten the base of the rail to tlie stone block without a chair. 



SECTION OF STEAM TRANSPORTATION. 123 

Ou tlie 17th day of Juue, 1885, 1 attended the auuual couventiou of tlio 
Association of Ainericau Master Mechanics, at Willaid's Hall, Washing- 
ton, D. C. After the privileges of the floor had been granted me to ex- 
plain the purposes for which the section had been established, the 
following resolution was adopted, and the following correspondence 
ensued : 

RESOLUTION PASSED BY THE AMEIUCAN MASTER MECHANICS' ASSOCIATION, IN AN- 
NUAL CONVENTION ASSEMBLED, AT WASHINGTON, D. C, JUNE 17, 1885. 

Eesolved, That the Ainericau Railway MasterMechauics' Association has learned with 
great pleasure of the establishment by the Directory of the National Museum of the 
department of steam transportation (both railway aud steam-boat), for the purpose of 
collecting and preserving materials which will illustrate the railway history aud its 
development in this country. This association hereby heartily indorses the action 
referred to, and recommends that the members, as far as they can, assist Mr. Watkins, 
the curator in charge, in making such collections as will fulfill the purpose for which 
the department has been established. 



reply from professor baird. 

United States National Museum, 

Washington, D. C, June 25, 1885. 
Dear Sir : Mr. J. E. Watkins informs us that at the recent convention of the So- 
ciety of Master Mechanics he was afforded by the officers of the society special facili- 
ties for the purpose of explaining the plau of tlie National Museum for the develop- 
ment of the collection illustrating the history of American railways. I desire through 
you to extend the thanks of the Museum to the society for the facilities afforded Mr. 
Watkins, aud for the interest which was nuvnifested in his work. I hope that through 
the co-operation of the society Mr. Watkins may be enabled to do very much towards 
developing this deitartment, in which he and all of us are so greatly interested. 
I havethe honor to be, yours, very respectfully, 

Spencer F. Baird, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution and Director U. S. National Museum. 
J. H. Setchel, Esq., 

Secretary American Eailway Master Mechanics'' Association. 

The following circular letter was distributed among the members of 
the American Society of Civil Engineers, at their annual convention at 
Deer Park, j\Id., June, 1885. They, too, allowed me to occupy the floor, 
and after addressing them upon the subject much interest was mani- 
fested by the members, and much individual aid was promised. 

United States National Museum, 
Under the direction of the SMITHso^^AN Institution, 

Washington, June 20, 1885. 



Mr. 



Member American Society of Civil Engineers : 
My Dear Sir : I beg leave to call your attention to the following letter: 
"To -whom it may concern: Mr. J. E. Watkins, of Camden, N. J., has been ap- 
pointed Honorary Curator of the Section of Steam Transportation (Railways and 
Steam-boats) in the U. S. National Museum. 

"Mr. Watkins is authorized to treat in the interests of the National Museum with 
any persons who may be willing to aid in the development of this eection, and to add 



124 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

to the collection already in the Museum objects illustrative of the histoi-y aud growth 

of this industry in the United States. Specimens thus acquired will be exhibited iu 

the Museum iu the name of the douor. 

"Spencer F. Baird, 

" Secretary Smithsonian Institution and Director U. S. National Museum." 

In order that the collection iu connection with this section may be made as com- 
plete and creditable as possible your co-operation is earnestly requested. 

The Pennsylvania Railroad Company has already jiresented to the Museum loco- 
motive No. 1 (of the Camden and Amboy Railroad Company), more familiarly known 
as the "John Bull," together with a section of the original track, laid with stone 
blocks, etc., upon which this, the oldest engine on their system, ran. Many other 
valuable relics from other railroads have also been furnished. 

I shall be glad to receive information as to the whereabouts of parts of such loco- 
motives, cars, steam-boats, track, etc., as may be of historic value, together with au- 
thentic drawings of early railway appliances, also old tickets, old time-tables, systems 
of old baggage checks, etc. 

A nation which contains within its borders over 120,000 miles of railway, represent- 
ing a stock aud bonded capital of over $7,000,000,000, should be zealous to preserve 
the history of the efforts of the pioneers in railway construction and equipment, 
which, during the last half century, have had such au immense influence upon our 
growth aud the development of our civilization. 

With this end in view the authorities of the National Museum have organized this 
section, by which they hope to perpetuate the history of the birth aud developmeut 
of the American railway and steam-boat, as well as to add an interesting and instruct- 
ive feature to the Museum, which is annually visited by between two hundred and 
three hundred thousand persons, hailing from every State and Territory in the Union, 
as well as from almost every nation. 

Yours, respectfully, J. Elfreth Watkins, 

Honorary Curator Section Steam Transportation. 

Ou tbe IGth of January, 1886, I sailed from I^ew York for a visit to 
the museums of the Okl World in the interests of the sectiop of steam 
transportation, and to investigate for the Pennsylvania Kailroad Com- 
pany the subject of electric lighting of railway cars aud stations, and to 
examine the various systems of handling freight at large terminal sta- 
tions abroad. 

Through credentials famished by the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution and letters from officials of the Pennsylvania Eailroad Com- 
pany, unusual facilities were aiforded me by the officials of railways and 
museums to make good use of fifty days on foreign soil. 

Most tourists go abroad during the summer months and do Eu- 
rope while everything is at its best. From the 29th of January, when 
we landed at Antwerp, until March 20, when we sailed from the same 
port, we had abundant opportunity to judge of the relative merits of 
foreign railways and American railroads so far as safety, speed, and 
comfort are concerned, in unpleasant winter weather. The ground 
covered was as follows : 

New York to Antwerp (Belgium), to Harwich (England), to London, 
Edinburgh, Glasgow, Port Glasgow, Greenock, Belfast (Ireland), 
Giant's Causeway, Londonderry, Strabaue, Dublin, Galway, Limerick, 
Cork, Dublin, Holyhead (England), Chester, Liverpool, Crewe, Man- 



Report of National Museum, U 



Plate III. 




SECTION OF STEAM TRANSPORTATION. 125 

Chester, WoIvertOD, London, Southampton, Ilavre (France), Modane, 
Mont Cenis tunnel, Milan (Italy), Venice, back to Milan, and through 
the St. Gothard tunnel to Basle, Strasburg, Brussels, Cologne, Ant- 
werp, and 'Sew York — over 11,000 miles. 

The great city of Loudon, 33 miles long and 22 wide, with the scores 
of railway stations, its miles of underground rapid-transit roads, and 
immense freight terminals, furnishes perhaps the most diversified field 
of investigation in the universe to the engineer or railroad historian. 
The management ot the signal box "A," at Waterloo station, Loudon 
and South Western Eailway, under which more trains pass per day than 
under any other box in the world, was most interesting. Notwithstand- 
ing the fact that a dense fog, such as one only sees in London, was 
prevailing at the time, the traffic inbound, which is very heavy about 
9 a. m., was handled with comparative dispatch and perfect safety by 
the interlocking-switch system. While I was in the box it was visited 
by a government inspector, appointed by the board of trade, who ex- 
amined the details of the working of the levers, and expressed satisfac- 
tion that some changes in the mechanism which he had suggested at a 
previous visit had been so promptly made. 

This surveillance by government officials is said to have been attended 
by most beneficial results. 

As the extreme length of the British Isle is about 550 miles, what 
we call here a long run is unknown there. The journey from London 
(Euston Station) to Edinburgh, via the London, Northwestern and Cal- 
edonian Kailways, 401 miles, via the 10 a. m. express, February 13, 
1886, was made in a little less than ten hours, 541 minutes actual run- 
ning time, at an average speed while running of 44J miles per hour. 
The journey was made in a compartment with lavatory, in a carriage 
which contained every convenience, for which a first-class fare of £3 As. 
Od. was charged. This is a journey similar to that from Jersey City to 
Pittsburgh, 444 miles, which is run by Pennsylvania Eailroad limited 
express in 11 hours, with much better accommodations ; price of ticket, 
including Pullman car, $13. 

Although luncheon baskets are generally to be had by telegraphing 
auead on long journeys, it was not necessary in this case, since over thirty 
minutes was consumed shunting carriages and transferring luggage at 
the dining station. 

The city of Crewe bears the same relation to England that Altoona 
does to the State of Pennsylvania, both being the mechanical head- 
quarters of the most prominent railway in the region. Some idea of the 
magnitude of the work carried on there may be gleamed from the fact 
that I saw under one roof £150,000 ($750,000) worth of locomotives that 
had never turned a wheel. 

Mr. Webb, the locomotive superintendent of the London and North- 
western Bailway, who is in charge at Crewe, explained to me that they 
found it cheaper to get their stock of one class of work up in a large 



126 REPORT ON NATIONAL MOSEUM, 1886. 

quantity at a time, and that the difference in cost more than made.up 
for the difference in the interest on the amount invested. The London 
and Northwestern Eailway Company have their rail mill here, and man- 
ufacture spikes, chairs, and the steel cross-tie (of which a sample has 
been sent us for the Museum collection, see PI. iii) in large quan- 
tities. 

Since my return Mr. Webb has written me that the Pennsylvania 
Railroad Company had ordered a mile of Loudon aud Korth western 
standard iron track, consisting of 80-pound bull-headed rail, wrought- 
steel cross-tie, with chair, complete, for experimental purposes. It is 
expected that this mile of track will be laid where the traffic is excep- 
tionally heavy, and a comparison of its durability made with the Amer- 
ican system. 

The passenger carriage shop of the London and Korthwesteru Rail- 
way, at Wolverton, is a most interesting place for an American to 
visit. 

While the English locomotive, of which we have shown a cut in PI. 
TV, is somewhat different from the American in appearance, the dif- 
ference is not so marked as in the passeoger cars or '' carriages," as 
they call them. (PI. v.) We were i)articularly fortunate in our brief 
stay in Wolverton in being able to visit the private carriage of the 
Duke of Sutherland, and to inspect the royal train of five carriages, 
which was being put in order for Queen Victoria's annual spring jour- 
ney to Scotland. The carriage which was constructed expressly for 
Her Majesty's private use, with its gilded furniture and pale blue satin 
upholstery, is planned in marked contrast to what we are accustomed 
to find in American special cars. But as the longest journey there is 
generally made-in daylight, there is no necessity for extensive sleeping 
compartments, and the luncheon supjilied at nearly every station takes 
the place of the dinner which we get on our dining cars. The wheels 
of the carriages of the royal train conformed to the standard of the 
London and Northwestern Railway, being composed of twelve seg- 
ments of wood (teak), around which a steel tire is shrunk, a steel Itub 
being used. A sample of these wheels, and a number of drawings show- 
ing the construction of the three classes of day cars, and the sleepers 
in use on this road have been promised me. 

A great deal of attention has been given for several years to the sub- 
ject of electric lighting of passenger carriages upon the English roads. 
Two examples give a general idea of the successful cx])eriments made. 
Between Liverpool and Manchester a last train is equipped with the 
incandescent lamps, one in each compartment (and one additional for 
emergency), the electricity being furnished by a dynamo on the tender 
driven by steam from the locomotive — no storage battery being used. 
I was informed that little trouble had been experienced in the manage- 
ment of these lights, which had been in continuous use for many 
montlis, the cost being low, the quality of the light considered. 



Report of National Museum, 1 886.— Watkins. 



Plate IV. 



ml 

mi 



iw 

m 

t i ■ 



a 


'I 


. 


■^' 


00 
00 


I: 




SECTION OF STEAM TRANSPORTATION. 127 

On the Loudon, Biij^hton and South Coast Railway a very ingenious 
contrivance had been put on several trains. A dynamo in the guaid's 
van, which is always attached to one end of the train, was driven by a 
belt from the axle of one of the wheels. The overplus of the electricity 
generated while the train is running being stored in secondary baJ- 
teries for use while the train is standing. This had {proved a very satis- 
factory system, and a company of wealthy capitalists had been formed 
to introduce this invention on a number of the other roads, with great 
promise of success. All of the steam-ship packet lines, crossing from 
Ireland and France to England, had put the electric light upon their 
best boats, and the Brush light is almost universally used upon the 
wharves and by best roads at passenger and freight stations, and in 
yards and other public places, notwithstanding that the price of gas 
is a little more than half what it is in this country. 

A drawing showing the arrangement of dynamo gearing, lamps, etc., 
on the London, Brighton and South Coast Railway — where, by the way, 
I saw the only Pullman cars abroad, and they were brilliantly lighted 
by electricity — has been secured for the Museum. 

Upon a stone block at Darlington stands engine No. 1 of the Stock- 
ton and Darlington Railway, built by Stephenson and placed in service 
in 1825; the first locomotive in the world to be in continuous general 
service upon a railway constructed for passenger and freight traffic. 

A journey of 18 miles from Glasgow along the shores of the Clyde 
brought me to Greenock. On the second floor of a stone house badly 
out of repair, at the foot of William street, I stood, on the 19th of Feb- 
ruary, 188G, in the room where James Watt was born, exactly one hun- 
dred and fifty years and one month before, and a fussy old lady, who 
appeared to be a self-appointed mistress of ceremonies, accepted a six- 
pence with a courtesy for unlocking the doors, while the old vandal 
who accompanied her pocketed a shilling, and cheerfully knocked a 
brick out of the historic fire-place where he declared young James first 
watched the steam rise from his mother's kettle and wondered at its 
force, and this legend was corroborated by others. 

At Glasgow I enjoyed a trip down the Clyde and my visits to Napier's 
and Reid's ship-yards were full of interest. 

All of the principal large vessels uijder contract were to have the 
new triple expansion engine. 

After a night journey from Loudon to Southampton via the London 
and Southwestern Railway and a most unpleasant voyage across the 
channel we landed at Havre, France. The journey from Ua\Ae to Paris 
was full of interest. 

I was not favorably impressed with either the plan of construction 
nor the condition of the French railways. The running time was slow, 
the signals clumsy, and the train-men had the appearance of being 
poorly paid and unhap[)y. 

The plans of the early English engineers and railway constructors seem 



128 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

to have been pretty generally followed. The people of Paris are de- 
pendent upon steam appliances for their means of transit from one part 
of the city to another ; the small steamers that run up and down the 
Seine, touching at the foot of each prominent street every few minutes, 
being patronized much the same as the 'buses of London, or the tram 
cars in our American cities. 

Many freight barges are towed up this river, in which the current is 
very swift, in a novel manner ; a chain with large links and several 
miles long, lies on the bed of the stream; an odd-shaped boat with a 
powerful engine drives a wheel above deck, which gears into the links of 
this chain, thus hauling the tow of barges against the stream, and pro- 
viding for the emergency of floating away in case the engine should 
be disabled. Large quantities of wine from the outlying districts 
through France are transported to the city in this manner. 

Leaving Lyon station, Paris, at 9 p. m., in a ivagon lit, we reached the 
north end of the Mont Cenis Tunnel about II the next morning. Eight 
and a half miles of darkness were traversed in thirty-two minutes, and 
we had passed through what was ten ytfars ago the longest tunnel in the 
world and is now the second in length. 

At Turin, we were transferred to a carriage (with the backs of alter- 
nate seats facing each other) somewhat resembling American cars, ex- 
cept the aisle was not in the center. Seats for three persons were on one 
side of the aisle, and for one only on the other. 

The Italian train-men and station agents perhaps receive less pay 
than in any portion of Europe. Women act in latter capacity at many 
of the smaller stations, as in France. The time made is very slow while 
running and long stops are made at every station. The four-wheel cars 
are poorly painted, and, except on fast express trains from Paris to 
Eome, Niiples, etc., they rode very rough. 

The whistle of the steam-boat bids fair to drown the song of the 
gondolier in Venice, as small steam-boats with shrill piping whistles run 
up and down the Grand Canal at regular intervals, furnishing the Vene- 
tians who are denied the pleasure of riding in a tram car, another means 
of rapid transit. Numbers of small steam barges may be seen on the 
W3,ter-ways through Venice and on the bay carrying passengers to and 
from Lido and other points. 

Keturning from Venice to Milan andjourneyiug thence northward, we 
reached the St. Gothard Eailway at Chiasso, the first station in Switzer- 
land over the Italian border, and during the journey of 232 kilometers 
(143.7 miles), consuming eight hours, we were scarcely a moment out of 
sight of an engineering feat that would have excited the wonder of the 
world a half century ago. 

In the limits of these 144 miles there are thirty-four tunnels, aggre- 
gating many miles in length. I had thought that, with the somewhat 
intimate knowledge of railroads in the mountain and mining districts 
of Pennsylvania, I was familiar with heavy curves and steep grades, 



Report of National Museum, 1886 — Watkins. 



Plate V. 




ii -2 



-00 "^ 



Q.IU I 

05 u. X 
CO O .- 



I DC 



o ^- 

CO o 






Ho 



o 5 



SECTION OF HTEAM TKANSPOKTATION. 129 

but there is no coiiipai-isou. The ^rcat taiiiicl is reii(;lie(l ;i few inoiaeiits 
after passing the station at Aiiolo, ami for twenty-two and one-half 
minutes of utter darkness we are passing' through a little more than 
94 miles — the longest tunnel in the world, and it is with a feeling of 
relief that one sees dajdight at Goeschenen at the northern end. I was 
fortunate enough (o obtain for our section a good photograph of each 
of the entrances to this great tunnel, and what ap})ears to be a very 
acciu"ate ma}), scale 1 to 100,000, showing the location of all the tmiiiels 
on the road, and giving a fair idea of the contour of the country. 

At Lucerne the St. Gothard Railway terminates, but the carriages run 
through to Basle without change. 

The railway from i>asle to Strasburg is the best equi[)ped road I 
saw on the Continent, the second-class compartment in the carriages, 
constructed on the English plan, being upholstered in a bright durable 
color, and as comfortable as many lirst-class carriages in England; quite 
a relief after many days of somber blue-black on the other roads. On 
this railway the track and road-bed are well taken care of, and fast time 
is made. 

The German locomotives appeared to be more clumsy or old fash- 
ioned any than we had seen, but their performance seemed very satisfac- 
tory. 

The Belgian railways are well built and equipped ; last time is made 
and the travel appears heavier than elsewhere on the Continent. The 
locomotives on the road from Brussels to Antv>'erp seemed better cal- 
culated for the work than on the Gernian roads. Shorter time was 
spent at stations everywhere in Belgium and more dispatch given to 
arriving and departing trains than elsewdiere. 

At various i)oints on the Continent experiments are being made with 
glass, iron, and steel cross-ties for railways of heavy trafllc, and J doubt 
if the tourist a few years hence will travel many miles over wooden 
sleepers. 

EUliOl'EAN liAILWAY MUSEUM.S. 

South KendiKjton Museum. — To the student of the liistor^N' of steam 
aud steam transportation the South Kensington (Patent) Museum con- 
tains the most valuable and instructixe collection of objects abroad. 

The Englishman of to-day, justly proud of the inventive genius o^ the 
last generation, is zealous to peri)etual(} the history of the results oi" t he 
life work of Newcomen, Savery, Smeaton, Watt, JMurdoch, Trevithick, 
George and Itobert Stej)iienson, and Symington. 

In our own country, however, with the exception of Fulton, no Amer- 
ican inventor of steam ai)[)liances has received the meed of praise due 
him, and yet no nation in the world owes so much to locomotive and 
steam-ship inventors and railway constructors as our own. 

Owing to the limited area of Great Britain, however, which, exclusive 
of Ireland, is a trifle less than the States of Pennsylvania and Ohio, the 
U. Mis. 170, pt. L* 1) 



130 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

record of iiiveiitiou bus been easily kept before the poi>alar eye. In this 
old country, advanced in civilization and blessed ■witb wealth, scien- 
tific societies and technical journals have kept the results of the labors 
of master minds constantly before the intelligent public, and the suc- 
cess of the lucky inventor has speedily brought him fame and fortune. 
Outside the circle of military and naval heroes no names are dearer to 
the British heart than Watt and the Stepheusons (George and Robert), 
and now that a memorial window to poor Trevithick is to be placed in 
Westminster this illustrious trio will become a quartette, much to the 
gratification of the impartial student of the history of the early loco- 
motive who does not permit the glamour of success to blind his vision 
to true merit. 

Original stationary engines built under the j)ersonal supervision of 
James Watt are in this collection, together with many of the models 
which he and his foreman (Murdoch) made to illustrate the patents 
which he obtained from the English Government. 

Original drawings made by Trevithick from which his high-pressure 
stationary and locomotive engines were constructed as early as 1802 
are framed and hanging on the walls, while several of his earliest boil- 
ers are to be found upon the museum floor. 

A large portion of the machinery of the eteam-boat Cornet^ the first 
English steam-boat commercially successful (built in 1812), which is as 
much reverenced in Great Britain as is Fulton's Clermont in America, 
is also carefully preserved. 

Upon presenting my credentials to Sir Phillip Ounliffe Owen, the 
director of the South Kensington Museum, 1 was most courteously re- 
ceived, and as he was fully occupied (February, 188C) in organizing the 
plans for the Colonial Exhibition, I was referred to R. Thompson, esq., 
the assistant director, who showed me every attention, and led me at 
once to the "Rocket," which he said every American railroad man 
wanted to see. I must confess to a feeling of awe when I placed my 
hand on the pony of 1829, which has been gradually bred up in size and 
strength to the powerful iron horse in a half century ; nor could I help 
a feeling of regret that the time was not ripe for the development of 
the Trevithick breed, which made fair speed and did fair service a quar- 
ter of a century before Stephenson's successful racer. Next to the 
"Rocket" stood the "Sansi^areil," the victor and the vanquished in 
the great Rain hill contest of 1829, which stimulated faith in the steam 
locomotive that had been creeping slowly along for twenty-five years 
before, giving it vigor and strength to begin a new life of the greatest 
usefulness. The scope of this report will not permit of an extended 
list of the interesting and instructive relics, drawings, and models which 
make this the Mecca of all historians of the stationary and locomotive 
steam-engine. 

Hunter ian Museum at the Universitij of Glasgow — Tl(c Neuicomen 
model. — Nearly every one interested in the story of steam will remember 



SECTION OF HTEAM TliAN!-;i'ORTATION. 131 

that in the winter of 17(}.> ;iimI 1704 J:iuiies Watt, who was then twenty- 
seven years old, and was a mathematical instrnmeut maker and general 
mechanician for this University, became interested in steam through a 
toy model of Newcomen's engine, which had been ])laced in his hands 
for repairs. This ])eriod is described by an eminent writer as "the era 
of all other the most eventful in the history of the steam-engine."* 

This model is still preserved in the Hunterian Museum, connected 
with the University, and the knowledge of the fact that I ha\'e held it 
in my hands and moved the valves that Watt repaired will always be 
held as the most precious remembrance of my tour abroad. 

It is rather a curious coincidence that the walls of the same institu- 
tion that witnessed Watt's successful experiments with steam a century 
and a quarter ago should now contain the work-shop and laboratory of 
one of the most distinguished electricians of the age, who has labored so 
successfully in investigating and utilizing the new power which bids 
fair to supersede the inventions w4iich immortalized that great inventor. 

watt's monument. 

A few feet from the Ninvcoinen model stands a wliite marble statue 
of the great inventor in a sitting posture, sculptured by Cliantrey in 181^5. 
The inscription ou the pedestal reads — 

Thin Statue of 

James Watt, 

Follow of tlic Royal Societies 

ol" London and Edinburgh, 

and Member of the Institute of France, 

is presented by his son 

to the University of Glasgow 

in gratitude for the encouragemeut 

allordod by its Professoi-s 

to the Scientific pursuits 

of his father's early life. 

In Greenock, Scotland, is a small museum which contains a number 
of letters writttui by Watt in regard to his inventions, a few models and 
relics, besides a stiitue by Chautrey, similar to the one at the Hunterian 
Museum at Glasgow, and a library containing a number of valuable 
books. 

The curator has kindly promised to send the National Museum a 
small map of the town, showing the location of Watt's birthplace, and 
a photograph of the house in which he first saw the light. 

Kelvin Grove Museum. — In the Kelvin Grove Museum, (Hasgow, is a 
most interesting pyramid of models of the liuHs of the early steam- 
boats: the Vulcan (first iron boat), 1810; tlie Comet (lirst successful 

*Tht) Steani-ongiue aijd its luveutors, by Robert L. Galloway, page J-T9. 



132 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

English steani-boat), ISV.i; luid the Charlotte Btmdas (first successful 
exporimeutal boat), 1802. 

Standing on a pedestal is a cylinder from the first engine put in the 
Comet. Mr. Miller, secretary of the Scottish Institute of Engineers and 
Ship-builders, tells me that this was taken out and replaced by another 
cylinder, and after having been used for some time by an old lady for a 
chimney top, was presented by her to the Museum as soon as she learned 
of its historic value. Upon the pedestal is placed a " Eecord of Steam 
Navigation in the Clyde" and upon the walls hang sev^eral photograjihs 
of the machinery of the Comet, with the inventor, Henry Bell, standing 
beside it. Mr, James Paton, Superintendent of the Museum, presented 
me with fac-similes of promissory notes given by Henry Bell to David 
Kapier, 1812, in payment for the boiler of the Comet, the first steamer 
that carried passengers in Europe. 

Also, a facsimile of certificate from Admiral Sir Richard Bickerton, 
of His Majesty's navy, and the captains of His Majesty's ships Dragon 
and Superb, dated July 4, 1802, in regard to Mr. Shorter's propeller, by 
the use of Avhicli one ship in a calm "hove away at the rate of 1 «& 
a ^ miles per hour, having 8 hands at the capstan." 

The original documents are the property of Napier Brothers, shij)- 
builders on the Clyde, a,ntl are loaned by them to the Kelvin Grove Mu- 
seum, Glasgow, for exhibition. A model of a propeller worked in this 
manner is also shown. 

Paris and its Museums. — Theie are three thoughts connected with 
Paris that are of great interest to the student of the story of steam. 

(1) In one section of the Conservatoire des Artes et Metiers stands a 
marble statue of Papin, to whose investigations I believe the invention 
of the steam piston and cylinder is largely due — holding a steam cylin- 
der over a fiame ; the apparatus having been modeled from the draw- 
ings of the one originally constructed by him. 

(2) Near by it stands Ougnot's steam road locomotive of 1770, the 
oldest steam-locomotive in the world. 

(3) The historical spot on the banks of the Seine, which I visited, and 
where Fulton made his experiments, 1801, 1802, and 1803, with steam 
appliances, both for towing boats and for submarine work against the 
wooden British sailing ships that were operating against Napoleon in 
these eventful years. In 1803 or 1804 Napoleon had become nuich inter- 
ested in Fulton's experiments with steam. They liad an interview, and 
Fulton's inventions were referred to the French minister of the marine for 
investigation. The English naval authorities, hearing of this, became 
greatly alarmed, for Napoleon, who then had a large force of men massed 
at Bologne, had it so arranged that if he could get the special barges 
which he had built for the purpose six hours ahead of the British in 
their journey across the channel he could march his army to London 
without serious opi>osition. But thus early in the history of steam uav-. 
igation the value of the marine engine of the future was appreciated by 



SECTION OF STEAM TRANSl'dit TATION. lo3 

llic nation \vlii<;li was desliued after vv;> ids to liitvc tlic j^reatcst, steain 
iiav.v in the world, and a handsome fee was paid Fultou to return to 
England, where ho had alterations and additions made by Bolton and 
Watt, at Solio, to one of their own engines, which was exported to 
America and i)laced afterwards in the Olennont., the lucky boat which 
gave Fulton fame and fortune. Thus we lind tliat this celehraU'd in- 
ventor, who designed wliat lives in history as the first sncfH'Ssful steam- 
boat in' the world, pursued his investigations in France, completed his 
engine in England, and won bis laurels in America. 

There is little else in the Frencb museums, either in the Conserva- 
toire or the naval section of the Louvre, of interest to the section of 
steam transportation. 

N'nval Ahiseum, Venice. — This museum is full of the most interesting 
models and relics, some of them of great age, but 1 could find nothing 
to even suggest that the subjects of the Queen of the Sea had any 
ideas in regard to paddle-wheel or i)ropeiler naAnfjation by steam or 
otherwise prior to this century. In Eome is to be seen a marine paint- 
ing several centuries old representing oxen walking around a circle on 
the deck of a vessel driving a windlass geared to a paddle-wheel in the 
stern of the boat — a somewhat similar arrangement to the stern-wheel 
boats used foi' shoal navigation on the Ohio ar.<l Mississippi Rivers. 
In another painting two or three centuries old a sea-nymph sits lloat- 
ing in a shell, with a paddle-wheel apparently revolving on one side. 
It would seem, however, that the gilded lloatlng palace, in which the 
Doges performed the (seremony of wedding the sea each year, and 
which was driven bj' the galley slave chained to his oar, was the most 
advanced stage of marine architecture to which the Venetians — once 
rulers of the sea — attained, until after the introduction of steam. 

PETITION TO CONGRESS. 

A description of the section, whicli was published in the Washing- 
ton Star, January 1(5, 1S86, having been widely circulated during my 
absence abroad, I found upon my return that over thirteen hundred 
gentlemen connected with railroads in all sections of the United States 
had ])etitioned Congress for an appropriation to establish a section in 
the Kational Museum devoted to the history of the railroad and steam- 
boat. Neither at this session, nor <luring the next, was this rerpiest 
complied with, and I have been compelled to do what little has been 
done since my return, with my ])rivate means, during brief periods of 
intermission from railway duties; short leaves of absence having been 
granted through the kindness of the general manager of the rennsyl- 
vania Kailroad Com])any, in whose service I have been employed for 
nearly fifteen years consecutively. 

A copy of the petition to Congrciss, with the names of the more prom- 



134 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MHSEUM, 1886. 



inent of the sit^ners, together with the resolutions passed by the Frinilc 
lin Institute of Phihidelphia, is to be found below : 

To the Congress of the United States : 

The iindersignecl, desirous of ijerpetuating the history of the birth aud development 
of steam transportation (by steam-boat and railway) in Americn, res])ectfnlly petition • 
your honorable body to appropriate such a sum of money as may be deemed neces- 
sary to carry out the plans recently adopted for the organization of the Section of 
Steam Transportation in the U. S. National Museum ; said sum to be expended under 
supervision of Prof. Spencer F. Baird. Secretarj' of the Smithsonian Institution aud 
Director of the U. S. National Museum. 



Alabama Great Southern Railroa,d : 
Charles Schiff, vice-president. 

Allegheny Valley Railroad : 

David McCargo, general snpt. 
T. R. Robinson, treasurer. 

E. H. Utley, G. F. and P. ag(Miit. 
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad: 

H. C. Nutt, president. 

H. W. Gardiner, secretary. 

D. L.Gallup, auditor. 
Atlantic and West Point and West (in 
Alabama Railroad : 

L. P. Grant, president. 

Cecil Gabbett, gencr.al manager. 

N. M. Abbett, secretary and tveiksnrer. 
Atchison, Topeka aud Santa V6 Railroiul : 

P. F. BaiT, superintendent. 

Charles Win check, general foreman. 

Edward Flockett, master mechanic. 

R. H. Emerson, master mechanic. 

H. V. Farrie.s, master mechanic. 
Baltimore aud Delaware Bay Railrond : 

J. F. Bingham, president. 

Fred Gerker, general manager. 
Baltimore aud Ohio Railroad : 

Robert Garrett, president. 

F. II. Britton, superintendent. 

B. F. Luther, master mechanic. 

PI T. Affleck, division freight agent. 
Buftalo, New York aud Philadelphia : 

G. Clinton Gardiner, president. 

C. n. Allen, vice-president. 
G. S. Gatchell, gen. supt. 
John Dougherty, treasurer. 
R. D. McCreary, eugiueer. 

Boston, TToosac Tunnel and Western : 

A. Kountzo, president. 
BntValo, Rochester and Pittsburgh: 

Walstou H. Brown, president. 

William E. Hayt, chief engineer. 

George E. Merchant, gen. mangr. 

I. S. Emery, general freight agent. 
Boston and Providence Railroad : 

Henry A.Whitney, president. 

A. A. Folsom, superintendent. 



Bangor aud Portland Railro/id : 

C. Miller, president. 

George W. Mackey, secretary. 

E. G. Wire, chief engineer. 

Charles N. Miller, G. F. and P. A. 
Boston and Bangor Steam-ship Co. : 

W. H. Hill, jr., general man.ager. 
Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern 
Railroad : 

C. J. Ives, president. 

Robert Williams, superintendent. 

S. S. Dorwart, secretary. 

H. F. White, chief engineer. 
Cape Fear and Yadkin Valley Railroad : 

Julius A. Gray, president. 
Chicago, Burlington and Northern R. R: 

Charles C. Upham, chief engineer. 

J. M. Forbes, treasurer. 
Cleveland and Canton Railroad : 

J. W. Wardwell, gen. supt. 

Albert Rokusck, G. F. .and P. A. 
Cincinnati aud Eastern Railroad: 

B. F. Coats, P. and R. 
H. E. Sawyer, S. T. 

T. D. Rhodes, T. and G. P. A. 
W. L. King, chief engineer. 
J. C. Horner, Supt-. M. P. 
Cliioago and Alton Railroad : 

J. H. Parsons, superinteudeut. 

C. A. Smith, supt. water-works. 

J. II. Finney, asst. superintendent. 
Jacob Johann, master mechanic. 
C. H. Mead, foreman car-shops. 
G. D. Brooke, general foreman. 
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy R. R. : 
Henry B. Stone, general manager. 
.7. O. Bosler, general superintendent. 
George C. Smith, chief engineer. 
F. C. Rice, superintendent. 
C. N. Rosscguiu, superintendent. 
F. E. Walker, engineer. 
I'. J. Allen, engineer. 
\i. J.lSIcClure, constrncti(m engineer. 
Thomas Gordon, division engineer. 
J. O. Thorne, brg. and bldg. supt. 



SECTION OF STKAM TRANSPORTATION. 



135 



Chictigd, liHiliiiyton aiul (jliiiiiry R. R. — 
Continned 

E. A. Gnunell, L. and D. afj;ont. 

Wm. Irving, r.en'1 purchasing agent. 

R. W. Colvillo, master mechanic. 
Cleveland, Akron and Colnmbns Ry. : 

.1. Monserrat, president. 

E. French, chief engineer. 

R. G. Sharpo, snpt. transportation. 

E. C. Jones, G., F., and P. agent. 
Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad : 

I). R. Patterson, purchasing agent. 

O. S. Lyford. 
Chicago, Burlington and Northern R. R.: 

George B. Harris, general manager. 

C. C. Ilpham, chief engineer. 
A. B. Plinckley, auditor. 

Columbus and Cincinnati Midland R. R. : 
S. P. Peabody, gen'l superintendent. 

Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and 
Indianapolis Railway : 

N. H. Devoreux, president. 

Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul R. R. : 

D. J. Witeniore, chief engineer. 

J. W. Lowry. gen'l master niechanie. 

E. Fairbairn, master meclianic. 
A. E. Alcott, general foreman. 

C. King, general foreman. 
Central Iowa Railroad : 

William Hanna, director. 

D. V. Phelps, ass't superintendent. 
Cincinnati and Muskingum Valley R. li. : 

F. G. Darlington, superintendent. 
Cincinnati Southern Railway : 

John Carlisle, trustee. 
Chicago and Northwestern Railway : 

J. E. Blunt, chief engineer. 
Cincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton R. \l. : 

C. C. Waite, vice-president. 

J. Ramstiv, chief (engineer. 
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Ry. : 

A. Kimball, vice-president. 

C. L. Ewing, claim agent. 

W. II. Robinson. 

George F. Walker, .superintendent. 
Cincinnati, Wabash and Michigan R. R. : 

Nornum Berkley, general manager. 

O. W. Lamport, superintendent. 

S. Vi. Ginker, m;ister mechanic. 
Cincinnati, Indianapolis, St. Louis and 
Chicago Ivailway : 

M. E. Ingall, president. 
C'l('\-el;ind and IMttsbnrgli Railroad: 

John Thomas, Nuperintc^ndent. 

R. S. Smith, assistant manager. 

G. A. Ingersoll, s(H-'y and ti'easurcn'. 



(MnciTinati, New Orleans and Texjis Pa- 
cific Railway: 

I'rank S. Bond, i>resident. 

R. Carroll, general superintendent. 

G. B. Nicholson, chief engineer. 

G. Bouscaren, construction engineer. 

James Meehan, snpt. M. P. and M. 
(Jolnnd)ns, H.)ckiiig Valley and Toledo 
Railway : 

M. M. Green, president. 

Wm. Greene, second vice-president. 

William N. Cott, treasurer. 

W. H. Jennings, engineer. 

F. B. Sheldon, engineer. 

J. G. Hutchina, master mechanic. 

William A. Miles, general freight ;ig'l . 
Chicago and West Michigan Railroad : 

J. K. V. Agnew, gen'l superinteiidiMit. 

J. H. Carpenter, G. F. and P. A. 
Delaware, Lackawana and Western R. U. : 

Samuel Sloan, pn^sident. 
Dayton and Ireton Railroad: 

James M. Preiulergast, presidc^nt. 
Delaware and Bound Brook Railroa<l : 

J. H. Stevenson, secretary and trefXs. 
Detroit, Grand Haven and Milwaukee 
Ry. and Chicago and Grand Trunk Ry. : 

W. J. Spicer, general manager. 

J. W. Fortune, ass. gen'l manager. 

Geo. Masson, chief of engineers. 

A. B. Atwater, superintendent. 

W. ,7. Morgan, superintendent. 

J. H, Minor, treasurer. 

H. Roberts, mech. supt. 

J(din Main, asst. G. F. agent. 

J. E. Quick, gen'l baggages agent. 

J. Loriner, gen'l storek(^e])er. 
Dnluth and Iron Range R. R. : 

C. Tower, president. 

L. P. Beck, secretary. 

A. H. Viele, auditor. 

R. H. Lee, chief engineer and supt. 
John Mailman, chief explorer. 
Detroit, Lansing and Northern R. R. : 
J. B. Mulliken, general manager. 

F. M. Fish, general sui)erintendent. 
J. J. McVene, chief engineer. 
John Doyle, general road-nKlst(^r. 

B. F. Calvin, general road-nuister. 

G. C. Watrous, sniK^rintendent M. P. 
W. A. Carpenter, G. F. and P. agent. 
G. W. Light, assistant road-nuister. 
Iv. Rustine, assistant road-master. 
R. M. Titfany, forenuiTi car dept. 

A. P. Sweet, master painter. 
T. S. Newton, gen'l rg. agent. 



136 



REPORT ON NATION A 1. MUSEUM, 1886. 



East Tdiiiiesseo, Vir<i;iiii;i und (in. R. K. ; 
J. C. Audrc.ws, geii'l stL. agt. 

F. R. Hunger, siiiierintendcsiit. 
Elmira, Cortland and Northern R. R. : 

A. A. McLood, general nninager. 
East/ TonnesBee and Western Norlli Caro- 
lina R. R. : 

A. Pardee, jr., president. 

J. a. Wise, secretary and treasurer. 
F't W., Cincinnati and Louisville R. R. : 

W. W. Wortliington, gen'l snpt. 

Charles Hoffman, auditor. 

R. F. Kinnaird, G. F. agent. 
Florida Sontliern Railway: 

Jaines D. Hallston, superintend<Mit. 

.Sherman Conent, gen'l manager. 
Flint and Pere Marquette R. R. : 

H. C. Potter, V. P. and gen'l niangr. 

Sanford Koeler, superintendent, 

William B. Sears, chief engineer. 

W. F. Potter, assistant supt. 

G. M. P>rown, general road-mas(er. 
n. M. Perry, M. C. builder. 
Thomas J. Matswell, M. M. 

Gulf, Colorado and Santa Fe Railway: 

M. W. Joyce, general agent. 

Thomas M, Jackson, land agent. 

W. J. Sherman, engineer. 
Henderson Bridge Company: 

S. S. Eastwood, secretary. 
Houston and Texas Central : 

A. H. Swanson, general manager. 

G. A. Quinlan, engr. and supt. 

E. W. Cave, treasurer. 
Hanover Junction and Gettysburg Rail- 
road : 

A. W. Eicholberger, president. 

R. M. Wirt, secretary and treasurer. 
Indianapolis, Decatur and Springfield 
Railroad : 

H. B. Hammond, receiver. 

G. W. Bender, sujierintendent. 
Indianapolis and St. Louis Railway: 

T. W. Burroughs, superintendent. 

W. P. Orland, assistant M. M. 
Illinois Central Railroad: 

J. C. Clarke, president. 

R. S. Charles, president. 

C. M. Sheafe, superintendent. 
J. G. Morey, general agent. 

D. R. Morey, general freight agent. 
.Jno. M. Turner, division su])t. 

J. W. Colmau, A. G. P. agent. 
Wm. Murray, gen'l Sth. P. agent. 
S. B. McConnico, general .agent. 



K;insa,s f'ity, Fort Scott and (ilnlf R. R.: 
G. H. Ncttleton, general manager. 
Norman Jones, general agent. 

Lake Erie and Western Railroad: 

C. H. Perry, chief engineer. 

D. G. Hill, general superintendent. 
W. S. Weed, general freight agent. 
H. J. Casteter, auditor. 

A. D. Thomas, cashier. 

G.W, Smith, G. P. agent. 
Lake Shore and Michigan Southern R. R. : 

Maitland Porter, general supt. 

P. P. Wright, general supt. 

G. W. Steven, supt. M. P. 

Geo. Gallaway, foreman car shops. 

P. J. Clansy, foieman ear shops. 

J. S. Graham, master mechanic. 

L. C. Robson, M. C. builder. 

John Kirby, general M. C. 

Norman Totten, L. and C. dept. 

L. C. Higgins, purchasing agent. 
Lehigh Valley Railroad : 

E. B. Wilbur, i)resident. 
Charles Hartshorn, vice-president. 
J. R. Fanshawe, secretary. 
William Alderson, treasurer. 

A. W. Stednian, chief engineer. 
John Taylor, general manager. 
J. H. Heckman, general freight agent. 

E. B. Byington, gen. passenger agent. 
Louisville and Nashville Railway : 

A. M. Quarrier, second vice-president. 
L. R. Knott, assistant to president. 
R. Wells, assistant to president. 
C. R. Barnhardt, supt. transportation, 
C. W. Corriuge, general agent. 

F. B. Robson, road master. 

G. W. Hinnian, supt. brgs. and bldgs. 
L. Howell, superintendent. 

H. W. Bruce, attorney, 
Theo. Welch, general freight agent. 
J. C. Loomis, master trains. 
James Geddes, superintendent. 
C. O. Parker, superintendent. 
J. T. Harrahan , general manager. 
R. K. Warren, secretary. 
Cushman Quarrier, comptroller. 
W. W. Tompson, treasurer. 
Lyttleton Cooke, attorney. 
V. M. Fonda, assist, superintendent. 
Louisville, New Orleans and Texas Ry. : 
W. N. Marshall, master transp. 
J. J. Casey, m. c. builder. 
R. F. Reynolds, commercial agent. 
E. ]). Anderson, master mechanic. 



SECTION OF STEAM TRANSPORTATION. 



Mit'liifiaii Ccntiiil Ivitilioud : 

Heiij. I^onglasa, engineer biid^cs. 

J. D. Hawks, chief engineer. 

A. Torrey, JisHistant engineer. 

I. P. Morris, assistant engineer. 

W. il. Stillson, assistant engineer. 

A. (}. Dailey, snperintcndent trans]). 
Mexican National Railway: 

C. A. Merriani, gen. supei'intendent. 

E. A. Handy, engineer. 

J. M. Winslow, master nieclianic. 
Minnesota and Northwestern Railroad : 

J. C. Fernstorni, chief engineer. 

Frank Skipwlth, asst. chief engineer. 

Clir. Nasten, assistant engineei'. 

W. J. Wilgns, assistant engineer. 
Milwankee and Northern Railroad : 

James C. Sl)encer,vice-preHident. 

C. F. Fulton, general Hnporintendent. 
Milwaukee, Lake Shore and Western K'y. : 

J. Donahue, superintendent. 
Missouri Pacific Railway : 

H. M. Hoxie, vice-president. 

Win. Kerrigan, gen. superintendcMit. 

D. lirocke, snpt. triinsportation. 
Maryland Steam-boat Company : 

H. H. Ensign, president. 
James E. Byrd, secretary. 
Mexican Central Railway : 

F. W. Johnston, sup't M. P. and M. 
New York Central & Hudson River R,. R.: 

Chauncey M. Dcpew, president. 
Horace J. Ilaydeu, vice-president. 
J. M. Taucey, general superintendent. 
Theodore Voorhees, ass't gen'l sup't. 
C. M. Bissell, superintendent. 
New York, New Haven & Hartford R. R.: 

C. S. Davidson, superintendent. 
Otis C. Lackey, master mechanic. 

New York and New England R. R.: 
Elliot Holbrook, superintendent. 
L. W. Palmer, sui)erintendent. 
J. S. Henny, Huperintendent IvI. P. 

New York, Chicago and Saint Louis K. K : 

D. W. Caldwell, receiver. 

G. H. Spriggs, G. F. and P. A. 
New York, Lake Erie and Western R. R.: 

N. J. Murpliy, superintendent. 
New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio R. li.: 

N. D. Woode, suj)erintendent. 

Aug. Mordecai, engineer. 
Northern Central Railway : 

Robert Neilson, geu'l superintendent. 

A. C. Hippy, engineer M. W. 

E. D.Nelson, superintendent W. 1'. 
S. W. White, secretary. 



New York, Phiiadolidiia .V Norfolk' li. R.: 

William A. I'attou, vice-])resident. 

William Cariss, secretary and auditor. 

R. B. Cooke, G. B. agent. 

II. D. Dunne, superintendent. 

G. W. Russell, master nu^chanic. 
Newport News & Mississippi Valley R. R.: 

R. \\. Briggs, sup't M. P. and M. 

John Fitzgerald, master mechanic. 

W. E. Ramsey, general foreman. 

D. S. Weaver, general foi-eman. 
New Orleans and Vicksburg Packet Co. : 

J. Janney, general agent. 
N.)rfolk and Western Railroad : 

F.J. Kimball, president. 

W. P. Cosgrovo, superintendent. 
New OrhNans and Northwestern R. R. : 

John Glynn, jr., general agent. 
New York, Ontario and Western Ry. : 

Thomas P. Fowler, president. 

J. E. Childs, general manager. 

H. Anaerson, G. F. and P. A. 

E. Caniield, superintendent. 

E. Minshall, n\aster mech.'inic. 

New York, Providence and Boston R. R. 

G. H. Griggs, master mechanic. 
North Pennsylvania Railroad : 

F. A. Comly, president. 

New Haven and Northampton Railroad: 

S. B. Opdyke, jr., superintendent. 
Northern Pacilic Railway : 

T. F. Okes, V. P. and genl. manager. 

J. M. Hannaford, G. F. Agent. 

C. S. Fee, general passenger agent. 

A. Anderson, chief engineer. 

F. Green, superinteudeut. 

J. Blickensderfer, engineer. 

F. W. Gilbert, snpt. R. M. division. 
W. A. Gaslock, master mechanic. 

New Orleans Pacific Railroad : 

E. B. Whcelock, president. 

Robert Strong, secretary. 
Oliio and Mississippi Railroad: 

W. W. Peabody, president. 

C. M. Stanton, asst. superintendent. 

W. B. Ruggles, chief engineer. 

W. J. Robinson, genl. baggage agent. 

Percy Werner, general counsel. 
Old Colony Railroad : 

Charles F. Schoate, president. 

C. L. Levering, director. 

R. W. Turner, director. 

C. N. Bliso, director. 

John J. Ivussell, director. 

G. A. Gardener, dinn'.tor. 
John S. Braghn, director. 



138 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



01(1 Colony Railroad — Continiu'fl. 

Thomas Dnun, director. 

Thomas J. Borden, director. 
Oregon and California Railroad: 

R. Woelden,recr. and gonl. manager. 

J. Brandt, general superintendent. 

G. H. Andrews, second v. president. 

E. P. Rogers, C. P. and P. agent. 
Oceanic Steam-ship Company : 

J. D. Spreckels & Bro., general agts. 
Oregon Railway and Navigatioji Co. : 

Goodall, Perkins & Co., general 
agents. 
Pacific Improvement Conipnny: 

F. S. Donty, secretary. 
Pacific Coast Railway : 

J. M. Filniore, m.-ui.iger. 
Pliiljidelphia, Wilmington and I'.altimore 
Railroad : 

Isaac Hinckley, president. 

J. M. Mills, superintendent. 

A. Feldpauche, engineer. 

L. M. Allibone, assistant engineer. 
Philadelphia and Erie Railroad ! 

Thomas A. Roberts, superintendent . 

E. B. Westfall, superintendent. 

Joseph R. Davis, assistant engineer. 

D. H. Lovell, assistant engineer. 
Isaiah Paxon, master mechanic. 
W. L. Holman, master mechanic. 

Philadelphia and Reading Railroad : 
H. K. Nichols, chief engineer. 
W. Hunter, assistant engineer. 

E. F. Smith, chief assistant engineer. 
J. V. Smith, prest. E. Penn. Div. 

O. M. Weand, engineer of canals. 
George Eltz, superintendent trans. 

G. A. Shaffer, general baggage agent. 
J. Lowrie Bell, gen. traf. manager. 
James Calhoun, gen. freight agent. 

Peoria, Decatur and Evansvillo Railroad : 

G. L. Bradbury, vice-president. 

R. A. Bunker, treasurer. 

H. C. Parker, trafhc manager. 
Providence and Worcester Railroad : 

James Gallery, president. 

H. D. Campbell, sect'y and treasurer. 

C. S. Wight, general freight agent. 

J. Morton Hall, purchasing agent. 

W. M. Flahaven, master mechanic. 

Joseph Johnson, superintendent. 

J. L. Kirk, auditor. 

C. H. Bassett, gen. passenger agent. 

J. H. Agnew, general foreman shops. 

M. L. Croinlish, act'g gen. fr't agent. 



Pi'.nnsylvania Company : 

T. D. Mesler, vic3-pres't and conip, 

J. M. Kimball, superintendent. 

G. S. Morris, superintendent. 

Charles L. Cole, A. G. F. agent. 

H. W. Byers, road-master. 
Pennsylvania Railroad : 

(>. B. Roberts, president. 

Frank Thomson, 2d vice presitlent. 

N. D. DnBarry, 13d vice president. 

John P. Green, 4th vice president. 

John C. Sims, jr., secretary. 

John D. Taylor, treasurer. 

Charles E. Pngh, general manager. 

T. N. Ely, genl. supt. M. P. 

Alexander M. Fox, director. 

Henry D. Welsh, director. 

H. PI. Iloustoii, director. 

John P. Wetherill, director. 

N. Parker Shortridge, director. 

Wistar Morris, director. 

J. T. Richards, asst. chief engineer. 

R. E. Pettit, general superintendent 

V. Wolcott Jackson, general supt. 

Jos. Crawford, superintendent. 

W. N. Bannard, superintendent. 

Frank Ellmaker, superintendent. 

O. E. McClellan, superintendent. 

A. P. Kirkland, superintendent. 

J. B. Hutchinson, superintendent. 

Wilson Brown, superintendent. 

Alfred Walter, superintendent. 

J. A. Anderson, supt. relief dept. 

Frank Sheppard, supt. M. P. 

H. S. Hay ward, supt. M. P. 

S. M. Pi'evost, general supt. trans. 

J. R. Wood, general passenger agent. 

G. W. Boyd, asst. gen, pass, agent. 

L. P. Farmer, N. E. pass, agent. 

Enoch Lewis, purchasing agent. 

M. P. Sargent, asst. genl. pure, agent. 

F. J. McWade, general baggage agent. 

R. W. Downing, comptroller. 

James Reed, superintendent. 

M. Riebenack, assistant comptroller. 

O. J. Geer, general agent. 

C. S. Worts, road foreman engineers. 
Joseph U. Crawford, chief engineer. 
Samuel W. Latta, chief medical exr. 
M. W. Thomson, engr. niach. works. 
W. M. Phillips, superintendent. 
Vj. F. Brooks, engr. maintenance of 
way. 
Richmond and Danville Railroad : 
F. W. Huidekoper, vice-president. 



FiECTTON OF STEAM TRANSPORTATTON. 



139 



Ivifilmioiid, l'"i('(l('ii(kslmrj;li and Potromiic 
Railroad : 

Jos. P. Briton, president. 

E. T. D. Myers, genl. snporintondcnt. 

J. ]?. Winston, treasnrer. 
Richmond and Alleghany Railroad : 

Decatur Axtell, receiver and nianr. 

E. R. Ltdand, secretary. 
Rome,Watcrtown and Ogdensburgh R. R.: 

H. W. Britton, general manager. 

W. W. Cnrrin, snpt. transp. 

T. M. Petty, general baggage agent. 

F. R. Becker, chief engineer. 

G. H. Hazleton, superintendent. 
G. C. Gridley, A. G. P. agent. 

T. H. Austin, tax agent. 

C. L. Martin, auditor. 

E. M. Moore, general freight agent. 

H. A. Smith, road-master. 
Saint Louis, Alton and Terre Haute R. R.: 

W. Bayard Cutting, president. 

G. W. Parker, V. pres. and gen. man. 
Saint Louis and San Francisco Railway : 

D. W. Nichols, general supt. 
James Dunn, chief engineer. 
Wm. A. Thomas, division supt. 

Saint Paul, Minneapolisaud Manitoba Ry : 

E. B. McKennan, iisst. gen. supt. 
C. H. Jenks, superintendent. 

A. Githcns, superintendent. 
Elmer L. White, secretary. 
South Florida Railroad: 

J. E. Ingraham, president. 

F. H. Rand, general superintendent. 
R. R. Swoope, superintendent. 
W^ilbnr McCoy, anditor. 

Saint Lonia and New Orleans Anchor Line: 

J. B. Woods, general agent. 
Shenango and Allegheny Railroad : 

J. T. Blair, president. 

P. E. McCray, auditor. 
Seaboard Air Line Railroad : 

John C. Winder, general manager. 
Steam Packet Co. ; Seaboard and Roa- 
noke Railroad ; Raleigh and Gaston 
Railroad ; Raleigh and Augusta Air 
Line ; Carolina Central Railroad Co. 

William M. Robinson, pnwident. 
Soutliern Transportation Co.: 

A. M. Calliday, general agent. 
Star Union Line: 

John H. Moriarity, agent. 
Saint Louis, Fort Scott and Wichita R. R. : 

J. W. Miller, vice-president. 

J. JI. Richards, general attorney. 

J. W. Dowland, secretary. 



Saint Paul and Duluth Railro.ad: 

W. 11. Rawu, vice-president. 
Shenandoah Valley Railroad: . 

(}. R. W. Arnies, treasurer. 
South(>rn Pacilic Railroad: 

A. C. Hutchinson, general manager. 

A. N. Towne, general manager. 

I. Krnttschnitt, assistant manager. 

J. H. Willenth, secretary. 

.T. A. Fillmore, gcn'l superintendent. 

William Hood, chief engineer. 

R. IT. Crawford, cont. freight agent. 

E. W. Ilaw, A. G. F. A. 

William H. Mills, land agent. 

J. G. Schreiver, traffic manager. 

N. B. Kellogg, assistant road-master 

W. G. Curtiss, superintendent track. 

AVilliam T. Lambell, engineer. 

J. R. Wilkinston, iusp. engineer. 

E. H. Miller, jr., secretary. 

J. C. Stubbs, gei<h-al tralTic mar.ager. 

JNIichael Deering, assistant engineer. 

R. H. Pratt, ass't gen'l sup't. 

Richard Gray, general freight agent. 

Jerome Madden, land agent. 

C. J. Wilder, freight anditor. 
E. C. Wright, general auditor. 
Texas and Pacific Railway : 
L. A. Sheldon, receiver. 
Eugene H. Hintou, comm'l agent. 
Texas and Saint Louis Railway : 
S. W. Fordyce, receiver. 
H. G. Arlis, comptroller. 
S. B. Fish, agent for receiver. 
H. A. Young, chief engineer. 
Ulster and Delaware Railroad : 

J. H. Jones, general superintendent. 
Union Switch and Signal Company : 

C. H. Jackson, president. 
Union Pacific Railway : 

C. F. Adams, jr., president. 
S. T. Smith, general superintendent. 
J. Blincheusderfer, chief engineer. 
W. W. Fagan, superintendent. 
O. H. Dorrance, superintendent. 
J. O. Brinkeroif, superintendent. 
L. H. Kortz, sup't telegraph 
Erastus Young, auditor. 
J. A. Monroe, general freight agent. 
Thomas L. Kimball, gen. traffic man'r. 
C. S. Stebbins, general traffic agent. 
J. W. Morse, gen. passenger agtMit. 
Ulster and North Carolina Ivailroad : 

A. B. Andrcnvs, ]>resident. 
Wallkil! Valley Railroad: 

G. M. Graves, superintendent. 



140 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



WeHtini^hotiRP Air-]}i'jikt' Coiiipaiiy : 

George Westiiigliouso, jr., president. 
Wheeling and Lake Erie : 

C. A. Wilson, chief engineer. 

Joseph M. Hall, gen'l passenger ag't. 

A. G. Brown, general freight agent. 

A. H. Thorpe, cashier. 

W. R. Woodford, purchasing .agent. 

Otto Swartz, assistant chief engineer. 

M. D. Woodford, receiver. 

S. H. Ayers, secretary. 
West Jersey Railroad : 

R. Stretch, general express .agent. 
Western Maryland Railroad : 

J. M. Hood, iiresidont. 

John S. Harden, secretary. 

13. H. Griswold, gen. fr't and pas. ag't. 
Wilmington and Northern Railroad: 

H. A. Du Pont, president. 
West Slioro Railroad : 

J. D. Layng, fljuieral manager. 

C. W. Bradley, general snp't. 

D. B. McCoy, superintendent. 
J. P. Bradfield, superintendent. 

Western Transit Company : 

S. D. Caldwell, general manager. 



W;i.has!i, St. l^oiiis iindPacilic Railway: 
Thomas Anderson, general foreman. 
R. A. Houghton, road-master. 
George F. Bid well, assistant snp't. 
A. B. Adams, road-master. 

F. Sullivan, road-master. 

G. W. Stevens, superintendent. 
W. V. Stuart, attorney. 

J. S. Goodrich, master tr.anspoiTa 
tion. 
Zanesville and Ohio Railroad : 

James Buckingham, president. 

Edw. A. Green, chief engineer. 
Chicago, St. Louis and Pittsburgh R. R.: 

C. B. Taylor, superintendent. 

Leroy Kells, master mechanic. 

William Stewart, gen'l freight ag't. 

Robert Curtis, master mechanic. 

Edw. B. Wall, superintendent. 

Charles B. Street, master mechaiuc. 

William Swanston, master mechanir.. 

W. W. Reynolds, master mechanic. 
Woodruff Sleep] ng-Car Company : 

John C. Paul, general manager. 
Pittsburgh Locomotivi» Works : 

F. G. Dickson, president. 



At tlie stated meetiiij? of the Franklin Institute of Philadelpliia, held 
Wednesday, June IG, 188G, the following preamble and resolution were 
unanimously adopted, viz: 

Whereas a petition signed by over eleven hundred prominent railway officials of 
the United States has been presented in the House of Representatives by the Hon. J. 
B. Everhart, and referred to the Committee on Appropriations, which petition reads 
as follows : 

" To the Congress of the United States: The undersigned, desirous of perpetuating 
the history of the birth and development of steam transportation (by steam-boat and 
railway in America) respectfully petition your honorable body to appropriate such 
a sum of money as may be deemed necessary to carry out the plan recently adopted 
for the organization of the section of steam transportation in the U. S. National 
Museum, said sum to be expended under the supervision of Prof. Spencer F. Baird, 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and Director of the U. S. National Museum :" 
Therefore, 

Resolved, That the Franklin Institute of the State of Pennsylvania for the pro- 
motion of the Mechanic Arts most heai'tily and cordixilly concurs in the purpose and 
objects of this petition, and res]>ectfiiHy requests favoraJ)le action thereon. 

Adopted. 

Attest: 

William H. Wahl, 

Secretary. 

During the remainder of the fiscal year I spent such time as could be 
spared from duties connected with the railway service in installiMg and 
classifying objects collected while abroad and in correspondence with 
railro.ad officials and others interested in the development of the sec- 



SECTION OF HTEAM TRANSPORTATION. 141 

tioii. I judge from the interest sliowu by them that the mieieus which 
we liiive at the end of t!ie first year of tlie existence of tlie Section of 
Steam Transportation can be rapidly expanded into a collection w'hich 
shall properlj^ illustrate the history of the birth and develoi)ment of the 
steamship and railroad when it shall be practicable to organize the sec- 
tion upon a basis commensurate with its importance. 



KEPUUT ON THE SECTION OF MATERIA MEUiCA IN THK H. S. NATIONAL 
MUSEUM FOR TIIF YEAR ENDING JUNE :5(t. \mi 



By II. G. Bkveu, M. D., U. S. Xavn, llonoranj Curator. 



Ill performing the somewbat peculiar and more or less difficult task 
of arranging" and classifying the collection of materia niedica specimens 
for the purpose of exhibition, two objects are constantly being kept in 
mind, namely : (1) To make the collection both attractive and instruct- 
ive to the general public, giving them an easy reference to any speci- 
men on which they may desire inlbrmation, and (li) to afford the stu- 
dent of medicine and pharmacy the opportunity of studying materia 
medica in all its details. 

Every specimen of drug on exhibition is accomiianied with a small 
but concise so-called specific label, which is more especially intended to 
describe the drug itself as it ai)i)ears in the market. This label will be 
found attached to the square block upon which the bottle containing 
the specimen is iilaced. A second kind of label, which may be termed 
the generic label, is much larger, and the instruction which it is in- 
tended to give comprises the characters i)eculiar to an entire genus. 
The third label is also a large one, and gives a description of each larger 
group of plants to which the specimens belong. This will be found at 
the beginning of each new group in the exhibition oases. 

It is intended, finally, to have every specimen illustrated in the fol- 
lowing way : (1) By a well-j)reserved and mounted herbarium specimen 
of the plant from which the specimen is derived. (2) By a colored plate, 
jirofusely illustrating not only the entire plant, in as nearly its natural 
state as can be shown by plates, but also the anatomy of all its parts. 
(3) By a picture showing the peculiar mi(;roscopical structure of the dif- 
ferent constituents of each jilant. Every one of these pictures will in 
time be provided with a label which shall be descriptive of whatever 
it is intended to elucidate. 

This work, of course, will reipiire some time to fully accomplish. At 
present we are by no means in the i)Ossession of all tiie (colored ]>lates 
and herbarium specinuMis needed to illustrate every specimen in the 
above-described manner, and their collection, in many instances, is a 

143 



144 



EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



mere matter of ehance ; but a great deal can be done to expedite the 
accomplishment of tlie object. 

Much time has been already devoted to the large descriptive cata- 
logue which we contemplate writing, and which is intended not only 
as a guide for the general visitor and the student of medicine and phar- 
macy resident at Washington, but which shall also give to druggists 
and non-resident medical men valuable information on all the rare drugs 
contained in the collection. This work has been progressing but slowly 
for the reason that the library of this section of the Museum is not yet 
piovidefl with the books which are indispensable to complete a work of 
this kind. 

The remainder of the routine work consists in registering, examining, 
identifying, and bottling the specimens which are from time to time 
sent in for exhibition purposes. The writing of labels for new speci- 
mens, as weU as making constant improvements on old ones, is a con- 
tinuous source of work. 

The invasion of the specimens by insects is prevented in the usual 
way, by placing blotting-paper, moistened with chloroform, into the 
respective bottles, and this process so far has answered the purpose 
very well indeed. 

A list of the papers jmblished in relation to the material and work 
of tthis department has been furnished for the bibliograi,)hy, and it is 
therefore unnecessary to repeat them in tliis place. 

Up to last year the arrangement of the specimens was only accord- 
ing to the natural ordei's as they are found in Beutham and Hooker's 
Genera Plantarum. The change which has been made this year in the 
classification is deemed of seme importance, i. e., that each genus is 
placed in the order in which it occurs in the above-mentioned work. 

The number of specimens now on exhibition is 3,32C, of Avhich 1,457 
have printed specific labels. In order to enable the curator to label 
the remainder of the collection, a few more books of reference must be 
provided. The illustration of the specimens by properly mounted col- 
ored plates and herbarium plants is still in progress, and will occupy a 
few months more. 

The following is a list of specimens, representing the more important 
and rare drujis which were received and entered on the register: 



FKOM THE GOVEKNMKNT OF JAMAICA. 



Auiyris btilsauiil'erii. 
Mucuuii inuiieus. 
Casshi oborata. 
Calotropis jrirrautoa. 
Rhizopbora maugle. 
I[)OUU)ea purga. 
Aviceunia nitida. 
Gouauia doiuiu.i^cnsis. 
Laguucularia raceniosa. 



Cissampclo.s I'ereira. 
Cyptii'iis articiilatus. 
Capparis cyuopballoitboia. 
SrnUax cbiua. 
Mikania guaco. 
Boccouia fnitesceus. 
Croton cascarilla. 
Audira iuuruiis. 



SECTION OF MATKRIA MKDICA. 



145 



KKOM TI[T' MKXICAX KXIIllSIl' AT MOW OIU. KAN'S i;Xl'( ).srn()X, l,S84-'8r). 

Coiitr;i>erl)a. liaLsaiao piioto. 

Fabaii voj^etal. IJalsaiiio negro. 

Paiiita. Krauioiia. 

Valoriau, and dvwd si»iiciincns of tli •^ .sallYon plant — 
Crocus nativ.'v. 

FKOM VllK J.Vl'.VNKSK EXHIMIT A.!' NKW OKLKANS KXro.SITIOX. ISHU'BC). 



Oil of pcppcriniiif . 
paphno Genka. 
Artemisia capillari«. 
Scbizandra cliincnsis. 
Opliiopoj^on Hpicatus. 
Kaolin. 

Cornns officinalis. 
TritillariaTluinIjoi-j.(ii. 
Trichosanthcs jai>oni(;a. 
Buplonrnni falcatnni. 
Dioacoiea triphylla. 



Aniauluira aspboloidcs. 
Platycodoii grandilloruni. 
IJdluuaiinia luta. 
Asartini varicgatuiii. 
Pinella tuborifora. 
Xantboxylum piperituni. 
Cocculiis Tbunbergii. 
Astragal u.s lancoa. 
Citru.s fusca. 
iJiiUHticniJi acutilohinii. 



Mainmoa ainoricaiia. 
Kola paste. 
Plunieria alba. 
Mvristica Hnrinatneusis. 



FKOM mi;, v. STERN'S, DETUOIT, MlClf. 

Mtilia. a/,o(biracli. 
Eiipaforiuni aya,-i>aua. 
Agai' Agar, Japanese. 

FKOM 1)K. K. I'ALMKIt. 



Porsea caroliuieusis. 
Erytbraja tridentata. 
Tagetes uiicrantbea. 
Tagetes liicida. 
Ctnlronclla caua. 



Vitis arizonica. 
Ililaria cenchoideM. 
Liatris odoratissima. 
Eleomurus eandidan.s. 
Salvia sc(>rodoni(oli;i. 



FKOM W. K. TUOMl'SO.V, WASIU.VGTON, D. C. 



Oil of pi"p])einiint. 

II. Mis. 170, pt. 2- 



PipuuMitliol. 



■ 10 



KEPUUT UN THE DEPARTMENT UF MAMiAIALS IN THE U.S. NATIONAL 
MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE :i(l, 18811. 



By Frederick W. True, Curator 



The accessious received by this department during the year iiuinber 
ninety-two, and are for the most part of much interest. In reviewing 
the more important of these I have separated them into two principal 
classes, viz., terrestrial and aquatic mammals. 

The collection of indigeuons mammals of the United Slates has been 
enriched by the addition of two skins of the black-footed ferret, Puto- 
rius 7ii(jrip€s, collected by Mr. A. B. Baker in Trego County, Kans. This 
species is perhaps the rarest of North American mammals, and the ad- 
dition of new skins to onr series is a matter of considerable moment. 

Several interestiug collections were received from Oalit'oruia and 
Oregon, the most exteusive being that of Mr. Walter E. Bryaut. 

A good skeleton of the common black bear, previously wanting to. 
the collection, was prepared froui the carcass of an individual which 
died in confinement in the grounds of the Government As3ium for the 
Insane, Washington. 

Messrs. Barnum, Bailey, and Hutchinson, the well-known circus pro- 
l)rietors, have during the past year i)laced the Museum under fresh obli 
gations by their donations of valuable specimens of some of the larger 
species of exotic mammals. Promiueut among their gifts is the Indian 
elephant "Albert," which was killed at Keene, N. H., in July, 1885, on 
account of its exhibiting signs of insanity. Albert was an elephant of 
large size, his height at the shoulder being 8 feet, 4 inches. The skin, 
whicli is in an excellent state of preservation, will probably be mounted 
during the coming year. Other valuable specimens received from these 
gentlemen were a leopard, a zebra, a llama, a blau-bok, and a kangaroo. 
Avery fine female tiger was also i)urchased from them for a small sum. 
All these, with the exception of the kangaroo, represent species new to 
the collection. 

Mr. Lewis Sells, of Cincinnati, presented a skeleton of an eland, 
Oreas carma. 

Mr. A. E. Brown, superintendent of the Philadelphia Zoological 
Gardens, and Dr. W. A. Conkliu, superintendent of the Central Park 

147 



148 REPORT ON NATIONAI> MUSEUM, 1886. 

Menagerie, New York, have jireseuted msiuy valuable speeimeus, Nota- 
ble among thosereceived from the former gentleman was an ibex, Ca^ira 
ibexi a well-iviiowh European ypecies and one whose extermination seems 
imminent. 3)r. Conklin presented, among many valuable specimens, 
two hog deer, Gervus porcinus. 

A series of five young Greenland seals, obtained by Dr. C. Hart 
Merriam from Labrador, and a number of fur seals and one specimen of 
Steller's sea-lion, collected by Mr. C. H. Townsend in St. Paul's Island. 
Alaska, together with another of the latter species obtained by Dr. 
Stejneger in Bering Island, were the only pinnipeds received this year. 

Dr. Leonhard Stejneger obtained from M. Grebnitzki, in Bering Isl- 
and, and presented to the Museum, a skull of a bottle-nosed whale, be- 
lieved to be Ziphius grelmitsli Stejnr., and the skeleton of a young 
killer, Orca sp. From the United States life-saving stations not so 
many cetaceans were received as during the two previous years. The 
collection was enriched, however, by a fwtal and an adult female i)ygmy 
sperm whale, obtained respectively by Keeper L. T. Giimm, of J^ove- 
laiUes Island, New York, and Keeper J. W. Kidgway, of Baruegat 
City, New Jersey. 

Keeper J. K. Hobbs captnred a common dolphin, i>. delphis^ and Mr. 
C. H. Townsend collected a skull of tho same species on the California 
coast. The latter collector also obtained a fine specimen of the baleen 
of the California gray whale. 

In the Exhibition Hall the only new case added during the past year 
was that built for the group of fur seals presented to the Institution 
a number of years ago by the Alaska Commercial Company. This case 
is larger than any hitherto built, except the wall-cases, and is furnished 
with exceptionally large glasses. It corresponds in design with the 
Orang case, and will be placed opposite the latter at the north end of 
the hall, previously erected, or in the center. 

The two large groups of ruminants ami seals were placed against the 
south wall. They are unprovided with railings, or other meains of pro- 
tection, and tho arrangement can not be regarded otherwise than tem- 
porary. The curator lias spent much time and thought upon the con- 
sideration of x>lans for cases suitable for large specimens, but has not as 
yet hit upon any satisfactory designs. It is quite i)robable, however, 
that it will be found necessary to extend the large wall-cases now in 
the hall. 

Experiments have been made looking toward a better installation of 
the cetacean casts than the present one. It has been deemed best to ar- 
range them on a raised base upon tho top of the wall-cases. A sample 
section of the proposed base was made and placed in position, and it is 
to be hoped that the v.hole re-arrangement will be effected during the 
coming year. 

The mounted spedmens added to the exhibition series during the 
year were chiefly ruminants and mursupials. Very feM- small species 



])EPARTMENT OF MAMMALS. 149 

were inouiiled. In addition to the. work upon tlie new sju-ciniens, much 
repjiiring and vestorinj; was done. A number of .s{K'cinuHis i'urnished 
by the taxidermists could not be phiced on t;xhibition for want of ped- 
estals. The species added to the exhibition series during the year were 
as follows : 

St.. Bornard Dog. Witter Duck, Kobiis eUij)f^ij)r!imntis. 

Wolf, Cauis lupvs tjnsco-alhuH. IJaina, Anchenia llama. 

Fallow Doer (albino), Dama vnhjaris. Zebra, Equus hurchcUU. 

Proug-liorn Antolope (head), AtitUocajyra Kangaroo Rat, TJipodomys pliillipiiil. 

americana. Coypu Rat, 3I>iopofainus coi/pii. 

Kamtscliatkan Skeep (bead), Ovis nivi- Tree Fovcu-piuii, SijnetlicreN prchensilis. 

cola. Dugoug, Halicore dugong. 

Indian Sheep (head). Oris cycloceros. Giant Kan<^ii,voo, Macropus giga)iteitr,. 

Barbarj' Wild Sheep, Ooin tragelaphus. Kangaroo (unidentified), Mncropus sp. 

Japanese Goat-Antelope, Nemorhedn^ cris- Red Kangaroo Macropun rufan. 

pus. Great Rock Kangaroo, Macropus rohiistus. 

Harnessed Antelope, TragelaphitH ,s(>ij>Ui.s. Black-Striped Wallaby, IlalmaUirun dor- 
Bontc-Bok, DamaliH pygarga. nails. 

Additional temporary labels were i)repared, and the majority of the 
specimens are now labeled- The identilication of some of tiie exotic 
species is attended with great difficulty and cousimies a large amount 
of time. 

The series of lithographic; pic-tures of thoroughbred cattle, pid>lished 
by the French Government in ISGl, have been framed and jWaced ou 
exhibition. 

It is probable that considerable changes in the appearance of tlie ex- 
hibition hall will be brought about before the end of another year by 
the adoption of new portable cases and the remodeling of the wall- 
cases. 

A very important as well as very necessary change in the arrange- 
ment of the study series was made possible by tlie erection in the labora- 
tory of a large storage case for skins. This case is 11 feet high and 13.4 
feet wide and is divided into six compartments. As at present arranged, 
it contains one hundred and thirteen standard drawers of various depths 
from 3 to 12 inches. The case contaius the entire collection of un- 
mounted skins, except the uugulata, pinnipedia, marsupialia, the larger 
carnivores, and the rabbits. The larger species are simply placed in 
deep drawers, each drawer having its proper label. The smaller spe- 
cies, on the other hand, are arranged separately in paper trays, which 
are in turn placed in shallow drawers. 

The i>relimiuary card catalogue of skins and alcoholics, begun some 
time ago under unfavorable circumstances, has been completed. 

The alcoholic collection remains in the same condition as when last 
reported upon. Tlie jars for repacking, and thereby (umdensing, tiie col-' 
lection have been received, but the work has not been begun. When the 
series was removed to a new qiuirter of the hiboralory to make room 
for the storage cases for skins, fresh alcohol was added to such speci- 



150 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188<>. 

mens as seemed to need it. Shelves tbi- the stoiaj^e oremi>ty Jars have 
been erected and i)iove a ^s^ieat convenience, 

Oiily an insigniticaut nuuibei- of specimens, with the exception of the 
Soricidce, remain unidentified. It has been deemed best to postpone the 
identification of the shrews until the publication of the third part of Dr. 
G. E. Dobson's Avork u})on the insectivora, which will probably ajipear 
during" the coming year. 

The registers are complete to date, so far as the curator is aware. 

During the fall a considerable number of worthless specimens were 
removed from the collection and destroyed. This was done only after 
very careful examination of the records, and with the consent of the 
director. 

The curator has had the assistance, as hitherto, of a single clerk, Dr. 
W. G. Stimpson. He has continued to act as before in the capacity of 
librarian and curator of the department of Comparative Anatomy and 
also as secretary of the advising committee on publications. The force 
of taxidermists was reduced in the spring to two by the resignation of 
Mr. J. Richardson. 

The curator has continued his studies upon the toothed whales dur- 
ing the year and has published several papers, which, together with 
other papers based ])artly on museum material by naturalists not con- 
nected with the Museum, are noticed in Part iv of this report. {See 
uuder C, JIart Merriam, li. W. Shufeldt, and Frederick W. True.) 

In May, by invitation of the U. S. Commissioner of Fish and Fish- 
eries, the curator visited the porpoise fishery of the Wilmington Oil and 
Leather Company at Ilatteras, N. C, and obtained much valuable in- 
formation regarding the life-history of the Bottle-nosed Dolphin, Tursi- 
ops turnio, which is cauglitin great numbers at that point for the manu- 
facture of leather and oil. 

The Alaskan collections of Mr. E. W. iSTelson and the late C. L. Mc- 
Kay were identified, and annotated lists of the si)ecies were prepared. 
The notes upon Mr. Nelson's collection will be published in his report; 
those relating to Mr. McKay's collection, in the Froceeflinf/s of the 
Museum. 

In the course of his work u])on Mr. Nelson's specimens the curator had 
occasion to compare the skulls of the American si)ecies of Lynx and was 
fortunate enough to discover certain cranial characters wliich render i. 
canadensis readily distinguished from L. rvfus and its varieties. The 
discovery was made the subject of a note in Science, Vol. vir, p. 396. 

During an examination of the collection of insectivores a single 
speciuKMi of an apparently undescribed mole from Japan was found. 
A description of the specimen has been jjrepared for the Procccdinf/s 
of the Museum, under the name oi J)ii)i.ec<>do)i ])Uirostru. 

The curator has also made anew study of the Kangaroo Rats {Dipod- 
omys) resulting in the establishment of two species, D. philUp^il (Gray) 
and D.agilis Ciambel,the former having four toes on the hind foot, and 
tiie latter five. 



DEPARTMENT 



OF MAMMALS. 151 



The usual aniouut of work has beeu done in the identification of si)eci- 
mens sent to tlie Museum for tlnit purpose laypersons in different parts 
of tlie countr}". 

Numerous requests for technical information liave been received and 
responded to. Some information was f,nven Dr. (x. E. Dobson relative 
to the dentition and cranial characters of KSorax hoyi, *S'. crawfordl^ and 
8. evotis. 

The curator has been in correspondence with Mr. A. E. Brown, super- 
intendent of the rhiiadelphia Zoological Garden, relative to the specific 
distinctions of the smaller American deer, and with Dr. E. C. Spitzka 
relative to the commonest species of dolphin to be met with on the At- 
lantic coast. Mr. G. H. Ragsdale, of Gainesville, Tex., has received 
various information in regard to the mammals of that State. A request 
from Dr. Alfred Nehring, of Berlin, for a list of the specimens of GaUctis 
in this Museum was responded to. The facts relating to the periodical 
shedding of the antlers by C. virginianm and other species of deer, were 
sent to Mr. C. C. Smith, of Compton, Pa. 

Several requests for information relative to methods of preserving 
specimens were received and responded to by the curator or chief 
taxidermist. 

The number of mounted skins exhibited on January 1, 1885, and at 
the present date is as follows : 

On exhibition .January 1, 1885 *''^*'' 

On exhibition Juno 30, 1S8C "•'•> 

It is necessary to state regarding these figures that they do not indi- 
cate the real increase of the exhibition series. Tiie collection contains 
a certain proportion of much-deteriorated specimens. Some of these, 
which have been exposed to the light on one side only for a score or 
more of years, are very unsightly, the color being much faded on the 
side which has been exposed, while on the other side the original tints 
are preserved. These specimens are unfit for exhibition and must nec- 
essarily be withdrawn from the exhibition series. The gradual substi- 
tution of new specimens for old and faded ones, the removal of others 
without replacement, and the addition of specimens entirely new, are 
operations which are carried on simultaneously, and it is therefore some- 
what diflicult to indicate the real increment. The last figures given 
above simply show that there were on exhibition at the close of the fiscal 
year (1885-'86) 735 mounted skins of mammals. The number of new 
specimens actually completed by the taxidermists and placed on exhi- 
bition during the year was 22, including 3 heads. 

The improved facilities in the laboratory have made possible an actual 
count of all the S[)ecimens in the collection. Such an enumeration was 
undertaken at the close of the year, with the following results : 

Exhibition scrie.s ofsliins i 735 

Duplicate anil study series of skins 3, 8fi2 

Alcoholic speciiueus 2,854 

Total 7,451 



152 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

These figures iu;iy bo relied upon as indicating the actual number of 
specimens in the collection, and supersede those given in i)revious re- 
ports, which were partly based upon estimates. 

The statistics of skins and alcoholic specimens added, distributed, and 
destroyed during the year are as follows : 

Specimens added to the collection 381 

Speciineus distributed — . 100 

Specimens dostroycd 113 

The last entry-number in the register iu June, 18S5, is 15,075; the 
last number June 30, 18SG, is 15,482. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF lURDS IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MU- 
SE[IM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 80, UinO. 



By KoEEiiT EiDGWAY, Curator. 



SKINS AND ALCOHOLIC SPECIMK'N'S. 

The nuniborof bii'ds, chielly skins, whicli worcadiUMl totlio. collection 
(Inriiift- the year endin.!;' June .'50, 18Sl>, is 4,147 (Mu.seniii le.nister 104J)14 
to 1(M)()()(), inclusive). The more important accessions* were the ibllow- 
ing: 

Baird, Prof. .S. F., Director U. S. Xational Museum : I'eJayodroma mariva (1 spoRi- 
mcn); a niro Potrol colloctcd off tin! coast ol' M;iH.s;icliu.se.ttH, and new to tlio 
North Auierican fauna. (Gift.) 

BartleM, Edw., Etujhind : Oli spocimous, (w Hpocies, frjin (liit'crcnt jiarts of tlio world, 
but mostly from Australia. The collection embraces many interesting forms now 
to the Museum, among others, not less than four speciesof rardalotiis, thus nearly 
completing the series in the Museum of this peculiar Australian genus. (Ex- 
change.) 

Batcliddcr, Charles F., Camhridije, Mass. : a pair of a recently described Jniico from 
North Carolina (.7. Memalis caroHnen.sln), new to the collection. (Kxchange.) 

Beckham, Charles W., Washington, D. C: 1 albino ^ liedhead Duck (Aylltya amer- 
icaiia) purchased for the Museum in Centre Market, Washington. 

Belding, L,, Stockton, California : 13 specimens, 9 species, from California, among them 
2 specimens of the hitherto nndescribed and unknown male of Cohtples rufipileus 
from Guadaloupe I.sland. (Gift.) 

Bendire, Capt. Charles E., U.S. Army: ;?() specimens, 10 species, from tlni vicinity of 
Fort Cust(!r, Montana. A very accej)table accession. (^Gift. ) 

Bendire, Capt. Charles E., U. S. Army: 1 specimen of Melsojnza faseiata from ]'\)rt 
Custer, Montana. (Gift.) 

Beuedict, J. E., U. S. Fish Comviissioii Steamer Albatross : 1(5 sixuiimens, T) species, in 
alcohol, taken in the North Atlantic. (U. S. Fish Commission.) 

Benedict, J. E., and W. Lee, U. S. Fish Commission Steamer Alba trosn : '.'> specimens, 2 
species, taken in the North Atlantic. (U. S. Fish Commission.) 

Berlepsch, Hans Graf v., Mdnden, Germany :\ (iO specimens, r)0 species. A valuable 
and interesting collection, consisting chiefly of the desiderata from South America, 
among which are some types of several new species recently described by the 
sender. Nearly all the species are new to the collection. (Exchange.) 

* In addition to the accessions here enumerated, many others of equal imymrtancui 
■wore received and are referred to in Part V of the report. These are not included in 
this list, since their mention here would only be a repetition of what is said (concern- 
ing them in Part V. 

t For complete list of speciuicns included In this collection, see Accession List, 
Pt. V. 

153 



154 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Brotvn, Arthur Edwin, Superiniendeiii ZooJogicaJ Oardms, Philadelphia, Pa.: 1 spcci- 
rueu of Wbituey's Owl, in the flesh. (Gift.) 

Brown, Arthur Edwin, Superintendent Zoolof/ical Gardens, Fhiladelphia, Pa.: 1 East, 
Indian Parakeet, PaUvornis eupatrius, in the flesh. (Gift.) 

Coale, H. K., Chicago, III.: 26 specimens, 'M species, chiefly from Soutli America and 
India, among thera several species not heretofore represented in the collections 
of tiie Mnsonm. (Exchange.) 

Hamlin, J. P., Washington, D. C: 2 live young Syrnium. nehulosmn, from Montgomery 
County, Md. (Gift.) 

Hargitf, Edward, Chiswid:, England:" 10.5 specimens, 41 species, mostly water-birds 
from Prance and the Orkneys. 2 line si)ecimens of MegaJeslrls skna, ^ and 9 , 
are especially noteworthy. (Exchange.) 

Johnson, J. W., U. S. Signal Service,* Nushagakh, Alas'lca : 71 sjjocimens, 19 species, 
from Nushagakh, including 2 specimens of the recently discovered Plectrophenax 
hgperboreus. (U. S. Signal Service.) 

JDuges, Prof. Alfred, Guanajuato, Mexico. :* 28 specimens, 27 species, from southern 
Mexico. (Gift.) 

Duge's, Prof. Alfred, Guanajuato, Mexico.:" 11 specimens, 11 species, from Mexico. 
(Gift.) 

Fox, Dr. H'. II., Washington, I). C. :* 7 specimens, 6 species, from New Hampshire. 
(Exchange.) 

Guesde, M. Louis, Museum Flferminiey, Guadeloupe, IVest Indies .•* 2r) specimens, 22 
species, mostly water birds from Gn.adalonpe. The most interesting is a specimen 
of Speoiyto guadcloiipensis, a s])ecies new to the collection. (Gift.) 

Johnson, J. W., U. S. Signal Service, Nushagalh, Alaska: 34 specimens, 15 species, from 
Nushagak ; nothing rare, but the specimens are nicely prepared. (U. S. Signal 
Service.) 

Jordan, Prof. D. S., President Indiana Unirersity, Ploomington, Ind.: 43 specimens, 37 
species, from the Lower Amazon. Thirteen of these species are entirely new 
to the collection. (Gift.) 

Lawrence, George N., New York City : Type specimen of Sporadinus hracei Lawr., iVom 
Andros Island, Bahamas. (Gift.) 

Lloyd, J]\, Toyah, Tex. :\ 9 specimens, 8 species. Passerine birds from Fort Davis, Tex. 
(Gift.) 

Marshall, Henry, Laurel, Md. : 1 mounted specimen of the European Teal, Nettion 
crecca ( <? ad.), shot in the Potomac River, near Washington, in April, 1885. (Pur- 
chased. ) 

Mason, Prof. 0. T., U. S. National Museum: 8 mutilated specimens of South Amer- 
ican birds (3 species) used as ornamental appendages to an Indian belt. Tliey 
have all been described as new by the curator, and are jirobably from an unex- 
plored district of northern South America. (Department of Ethnology, U. S. Na- 
tional Museum.) 

Ma;nard, C. J., Boston, Mass.:\ 10 specimens, 3 species, from Florida, among them a 
fine pair of Anas fulvigula. ( Purchased. ; 

The Mexican Geographical and Exploring Commission, {\ through Prof. F. Ferrari- Perez : 
95 specimens, (mounted mostly in excellent style), 59 species, collected in the 
States of Puebla and Vera Cruz, Mexico, forming part of the Mexican Govern- 
ment exhibit at New Orleans. A very valuable acquisition, especially on ac- 
count of the excellence of mounting. Several species are thus for the first time 
added to the exhibition aeries, while many old aud poorly mounted siiecimens 
have been replaced by those of the present collection. (Exchange.) 

* For complete list of specimens included in this accession, see Accession List, Pt. v. 
t For further information concerning the specimens, see Accession I^ist, Pt. V. 
t For list of specimens, see Accession List, Pt. V. 
^For further information concerning this accession, see Accession List, Pt. V. 



DP]PARTMENT OF BIRDS. 155 

The Mexican Gcoijrdphictd and L'xploriii;/ ('(itinuissidn, lliroKf/li I'rof. F. Ferrari- Perez : 
;")() specimouH, :5(5 species, chieliy iVom IIk; .State of Vera (Jiuz, Mexico. lucludes 
sevoriil plumages new to the collection. (Exchange.) 

The Mexican Geographical and Exploriruj Commissiou, ihrough Prof. F. Ferrari- Ferez : 1 
mounted specimen of Catharisla airata, and one skin ai AntrostomuH vociferua, botli 
from Mexico. (Excluiugo.) 

Mhhcc d' nintoire XatureJlc, Paris, France: 8() specimens, 71 species, cliielly from Mada- 
gascar .and Cochin China, nearly all uew to the collection. This is one of the 
most important collections received recently, embiacing, as it does, a great 
number of generic types (luite peculiar to the island of Madagascar, which Ihe 
Museum for yearshas tried in vain to obtain. Among the uu)st noteworthy forms 
may be mentioned, two Leplosoniun discolor. Tylas, Cyanolanins, Ariayuia, Berni- 
eria, Calicalias, J'anga, JIartlaabia, Eartjceros prerosli, Geohiastcs squamifjera, 
Bruchypteracias leptosoma, Coua, etc. (Exchange.) 

Nutting, C. C, CarlinviJJc, III. : 1:5 s))cciniens, S sjiecies, from Florida. (Purch:is(id.) 

Palmer, William, U.S. Fif:li i'omniission : '.) specimens ()f Common Crossbill, fiom 
Escanaba, Mich. (Gift.) 

Pagsdale, (r. H. Gainesville, Tex,. :* I'J speciuKMis, 7 species, including a fine series of six 
Otocoris arvnicola, a Siirniiini, nehulosum allcni, the iirst specimen of this ibrm taken 
outside of Florida, and a line specimen of Buteo harlani (the latter purchased, ihe 
others being given). 

Peg, Dr. E., Leipzig, Germany : 10 specimens, 10 species, from various localities ; .-ill 
new to the collectiou. (Purchased.) 

Bidgway, Bohert, Curator, Department of Birds, U. S. National Museum: 2.')9 spc^ciinens, 
109 species from Wheatland, Ind. ; 2.3 specimens, 14 species from Richland CounZy, 
111. ; total, 281 specimens, 12:J species. (Smithsonian Explorations.) 

Bidgway, Bohert, Curator, Dtparlmcnt of Birds, IT. 8. National Museum : 1 snowy owl, 
Nyctca nyctea, shot near Alexandria, Va. (Purchased.) 

Poherts, George W., Chester Oounly, Pa. : 27 specin)ens, 17 species, including a series of 
10 Quiscalus purpureus, from Chester County, and two young Syrniuni nehulosum 
alleni from Florida; collected by Dr. 15. H. Warren. (Gift.) 

Pohinson, Bassell, Bichmond, Va. .-t 1 specimen of albino dusky duck, Anas ohscura, in 
llesh. (Gift.) 

Shufeldt, Dr. B. 11'., l'. S. Army .-t 13 specimens, 9 si)ecie8, from Fort Wingate, N. Mex. 
(Gift.) 

Shufeldt, Dr. B. W., U. S. Army :\ 9 specimens, 7 species, from the vicinity of Fort 
Wingate. (Gift.) 

Shufeldt, Dr. B. IF., U. S. Arnty :] i:! specimens, 4 species of ,/'(fH6'o, from Vovt Win- 
gate. (Gift.) » 

Smith, Hugh M., Washington, 1). C. :\ 1 six^eimeu, in the flesh, of Old Squaw Duck, 
Clangula hycmalis, shot .July 2(5, at Piuey Point, Lower Potomac; 3 Bown-headed 
Nuthatches, Sitiapusilla, and:? Western Sandpipers, Ereunetes occidentalis, from St. 
George Island, Maryland. (Gift.) 

Stearns <^ Co., Detroit. Mich. :^ :> specimens, ,^) species, from Costa Rica. (Pur- 
chased. ) 

Stearns <f Co., Detroit, Mich. : ?A) specimens, 27 species, from no>;()tii, mostly Hum- 
ming birds. (Gift.) 

Stejneger, ])r. L., Assistant Curator, Department of Birds, U. S. National Museum: I 
Snow Goose, from North Carolina, and 4 Nuthatches, from Norway. (Gift.) 



*For complete list of specimens, see Accession List, Part v. 

t For further information concerning this accession see Accession List, Part V. 
t In this entry are incliuled the two accessions inimbered KWH:! and 1G;'>7(5. 
^ For list of specimens sec Accession List, Part V. 



156 REPORT ON NATIOXAL MUSEUM, ISRfi. 

Stejneyer, Dr. L., Assistant Curator, Deparltnciitof Hirdt, U. S. Nalioixtl Mi(»enm : 21 wpeoi- 
meus, 18 species, from Kamt.scbatka. (Gift.) 

Townsend, Charles R., U. S. Fish Commission :* ^4!^ specimeus, 81 species, from Una- 
laslika, Kowak River, and islands of ]3ering Sea. A valual)le collection, includ- 
ing many other interesting specimens, two examples of the recently discovered 
riecirophenax hyperhoreus, ohtauwAow their breeding ground, Hall Island, Bering 
Sea ; and a speci<!S of Sandpiper, Tringadamaccnsis, new to North America. (Smith- 
sonian Explorations.) 

Townwnd, Charles JI., D. S. Fisli. Co'nurdsnon : \hQ> spccimous, r>2 species, collected in 
Humboldt Bay, California. (U. S. Fish Commission.) 

U. S. Fish Coiriniission, Naturalists of the Steampr Albatross : 524 specimens, ,^>1 species, 
mostly from the Bahamas. The collection is of uunsnal interest as containing 
not only several forms new to science, but also as extending our knowledge in 
regard to the distribution of the species on the individual islands, on many 
of which no collections have been made previously, and in furnishing large series 
of many species which formerly were poorly represented in the Museum collec- 
tion. 

Warren, £h\ B. II., West Chester, I'a. : rA specimens, 21 sj^ocies, in alcohol, from Florida. 
(Gift.) 

Two miiguilicent donations to the sectioncO-l library of the Department 
of IJirds deserve being mentioned in the present connection : 

Mr. Henry Seebohm, London, Enghxnd, lias presented to the library 
a complete copj', text and plates, of Dresser's great work, " Tlie Birds 
of Europe," which is now bonnd in fifteen great quarto volumes. This 
grand work is well nigh indispensable to any one studying ornithology, 
and the Department is under great obligations to the gentleman named 
for his numificence. 

From Mr. W. E. Brooks, Milton, Ontario, Canada, the Department 
has obtained a full set of Allan Hume's " Stray Feathers," a journal of 
ornithology for India and its dependencies, ten octavo volumes. This 
journal had become a very important desideratum of late years, as the 
collections of the Museum from the Pacific coasts of the Old World have 
been very rapidly increasing. 

The total nnml)er of specimens distributed during this fiscal year was 
2,842, as follows : 

Specimens scut in exchange 2, 581 

Specimens loaned for examination 237 

Specimens (alcoholic) transferred to the osteological department 24 

Total 2,842 

Twelve additional cases have been i)ut up and refitted with shelves 
in order to relieve the overcrowded cases already occupied by the exhi- 
bition series, plans and specifications for shelves, etc., for these cases 
were drawn up, the work superintended, and finally the specimens trans- 
ferred and arranged, to the very great improvement of the collection. 
This work was done during the months of July, August, and September. 

An important feature of the year's work has been the unpacking, 
determining, and cataloguing the collection of mounted birds belonging 
to the Mexican (xeographical and Exploring Commission. This excep- 

" For list of specimens see Accession List, Part v. 



DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS 157 

tioiuilly tine collection, as regards preparation of the specimens vvliicli 
bad been mounred erjtirely from fresh specimens, was of very great in- 
terest and benefit to the Department, atlbrdiug, as it did, several sng- 
gestiousof practical value, and much needed material for study, includ- 
ing no less than live ^lor(^ or less remarkable new species. The collection 
was in charge of Prof. Fernando Ferrari-Perez, C. E., who prepared a 
catalogue of the collection for publication in the "Proceedings" of the 
Museum, the Curator of the Department of Birds determining the si)e- 
cies and describing those which were new, besides rendering every 
needed assistance to Professor Ferrari-Perez. The new species will be 
fully described in Professor Ferrari-Perez's catalogue, in the forthcoming 
volume of the "Proceedings," but have already been briefly character- 
ized and named, in order to secure priority, in "The Aulc" for July, 
18SG. The new species are as follows: (1) Amphupiza fcrrari-perezi; 
(2) Fipilo suhmaculatufi ; (3) P. complex us ; (4) Anas dlazl (named iu 
honor of General Augustin Diaz, president of tlie Commission); (5) 
PhUortyx personatiis. 

Special reference to the A. O. U. Code and Check-List will be found 
in the Bibliography, under American Ornithologists' Union. 

The collection of mounted duplicates, consisting of more than 7, (KM) 
specimens, aggregating about 000 species, was made u[) into six sets for 
distribution, set i containing 307 specimens and 295 species. 

During the year the copy for species labels for the exhibition series 
was carefully revised to correspond with the nomenclature a.nd uumera- 
tion of the American Ornithologists' Union check-list, the number of 
separate labels being about 975. Proof of these was also carefully re- 
vised by both the curator and assistant curator. 

Several groups of birds Vv'hich had hitherto been iu a state of great 
confusion were nuide the subject of special critical revision by the cura- 
tor, with very satisfactory results, thanks to the excellent material in 
the Museum collection. Among the more important groups thus cov- 
ered may be nientioned the particularly diilerenl; Procellarian genera 
^strcldta and FuJJinns, and the genera Colinus, Larus, La<jopiis, and 
Empidonax. The last luimed was revised at the special request of Dr. 
P. L. Sclater, Secretary of the Zoological Society of London, who is en- 
gaged in prc^paring the catalogue of Tyrannid;c in Ihe British Museum, 
and who forwarded his own rich collection of Empidonaces to aid in the 
investigation. 

The assistant curator has also contituied his revision of Japaiu'se 
ornithology. When Cai»tain lilakiston donated his magnificent coUec- 
tion of Japanese birds to the National Museum, it was M'ith the under- 
standing that it be properly worked up, for which puri)ose lui also left 
his nuinuscript notes, accumulated during twenty years collecting, 
and a great deal of literature, with the assistant curator. Several pa. 
person the Japanese Avifauna have already been submitted for pub- 
lication by tlui latter and will be found in the subjoined list of papeis 



158 KEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSKUM, 1886. 

not yet printed. lie complains, however, of the great difficulty in set- 
tling many important questions for want of Temminck and SchlegePs 
" Fauna Japouica, Aves." 

The following papers have been prepared and submitted 

BY THE CURATOR. 

(1) The Geograxjhical and Exploriug ConimiHsion of Mexico. By Fernando Ferrari- 
Perez, chief of the Natural History section, Pp. MS. 101. 

(2) On ul^strelata sandicicheiisis Ridgw, Pp. MS. 24. (^Established as a good species, 
very distinct from JE. hasitata. ) 

(3) Description of a new oyster-catcher (B(Bmatopus galapagensis) from the Gala- 
pagos Islands. Pp. MS. 4. 

(4) On Einpidochanes fuscatun (Max) and Empidonax brunneus Ridgw. Pp. MS. 2i 
(sent to editors of the " Ibis "). [The latter proves to bo not only specifically but 
generically distinct from the former, to which it had be«n referred by Mr. Salvin, 
the question being determined by comparison of types of the two species, the formw: 
being in the American Museum of Natural History, in New York City.] 

(5) Description of a new species of Empidonaic from Guatemala. Pp. MS. 2 (sent 
to editors of the " Ibis"). \_E. salvmi Kidgw., based chieliy on specimens in Dr. Scla- 
ters's collection, collected by Osbert Salvin, but a specimen in the National Museum 
made the type.] 

BY THE ASSISTANT CURATOR 

(1) Review of Japanese birds. I. Woodpeckers. Pp. MS. 81 ; with a colored plate. 

(2) The British Marsh Tit. Pp. MS, 5. 

(3) Review of Japanese birds. II. Tits and Nuthatches. HI. Api>endix to theMarsb 
Tits. Pp. MS. 71, 1 figure. 

(4) Notes on species of the Australian Genus Pardalotus. Pp. MS. 9. 

(5) On Tardus alpestris and 'Tiirdus torqiiatns, two distinct species of European 
Thrushes. Pp. MS. 28. 

(6) Description of lialUin jouiji sp. uov., with remarks on R. striatum and />'. gularxs. 

(7) On Bracliyramphus pcrdtx (Pall.) and its nearest allies. Pp. MS. 18; colored 
plate. 

(8) Additional remarks to a previous paper on Tiirdus alpestris, based upon material 
received during May. Pp. MS. 1^. 

(9) Additional remarks to a previous paper on Japanese Woodpeckers, based upon 
material received during May. Pp. MS. 2. (Description of Pious canus perpaUidus, 
subspecies nova.) 

(10) Reviews of Japanese birds. IV. Rails, Gallinules, and Coots. Pp. MS. 51. 

An account of the minor and routine work is given herewith in tabu- 
lar form : 

Official letters written 332 

Official memoranda 215 

Memoranda of packing 189 

Orders for work .- 55 

Requisitions for material and supplies 128 

Invoices (trii>licates) 510 

Galleys of proof corrected 142 

Pages of proof corrected 1, 183 

Papers prepared for publication 42 

Number of birds mounted for exhibitiou series 132 

Number of birds made into skins 7 

Number of mounted birds transferred from the old stands to the new ones 2, 006 

New W6i,lnxit stands fitted togetl4er... .,,..., ,..,,.., 1,261 



DEPARTMENT OF BIKDS. 



159 



The papers i)iil)lisb('(l (Uuiiit;- the yeai' by the ciuafoi' and other inves- 
tigators, based npou material belonging' to the department of birds in 
the National Mnseum, are notieed in the bib]iogra[)hy lormiug Part iv 
of this report. 

An actual inventory of the whole colleetion of mounted birds and 
skins was taken, showing tlie number of specimens in the Museum to 
be as follows : 

(1) Exliibitiou series 7, 000 

(2) Niirtli Aiuoricau reserve series (iueludiii;; Passercs, Macroeliircjs, Pici, 

aiul Coccyges) Iti, 841 

(U) Netropical reserve (inchuliiig ditto) 11, 324 

(-1) Old World reserve (including ditto) 3,737 

(5) Water birds, game birds, raptores, etc. (not sep;uat(ul geograpbiraliy).. 10,973 

(()) Duplicates 7, r>70 

(7) Alcoholics (estimated) 2, ;'00 



Total 55,945 

The reserve series, exclusive of alcoholics, consisted, therefore, of 

45,875 specimens at the end of June, 18SG. 

The reserve skin series at the same time consisted of .■>Sj875 specimens. 

The dillerent iamilies were represented as follows: 



Family- 

^gitbinid;e 

Alaudida) : 

North America 2r>(j 

Neotropical 7 

Old World 110 



Xo. of 
47 



Alcedinicbe : 

North America 27 

Neotropical 97 

Old World 91 



Alcida; 

Auipelidas : 

North America 
Neotropical ... 
Old AVorld .... 



70 

9 

14 



21H 

489 



93 



Auatidte 1 1 19 



Aphrizidaj 

Aramidie 

Ardciida". 

Artamida' 

]5ticconida' 

Cancromidai 

Cariamida'. 

Capitouida- : 

Neotropical 41 

Old Worhl 17 



79 
17 
HI 
14 
90 
10 
1 



58 



Fa mil', 



No. of 
aiiecitucns. 
Caprimulgidai : 

North America L 9 

Neotropical 94 

Old World 19 



Cathii.rticUe 

Certhiida' : 

North America 
Neotropical ... 
Old World . . . . 



242 
29 



90 

3 

44 



137 

Chauueida' 28 

Charadriida^ 485 



Chionidida". 

Cicouiida' 

Ciuclida', : 

North America 44 

Neotropical 10 



Old World 



U 



('d'rebida' : 

Norlli America. 
Neotroj>ical ... 



2 

39S 



Columbidu' 

Colymbidie 

Conopopliagida- . 
Coraciad;e 

Corvitl;c( crows) . 



4 
13 



G8 



400 

524 

1(14 

10 

11 

195 



160 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MU8EUM, 1886. 



Family. 



No. of 
specimens. 

Corvi(l:i' (jays): 

North America 4G3 

Neotropical 212 

OlilWorld 71 

74(i 

Cotingidfe ^•^2 

Cracida'- 10(5 

Cueulithi' : 

Nortl> America 55 

Ne(itr()i)ical 223 

Old World S5 

:3G3 



498 

38 

31 

3 

4 

4 

3 



Ciir.sori idai 

Deudrocolaptida- 

Dicnirida", 

Diomedcida'. 

Dulldie 

Knrypygidai 

Eurylaimida; 

Eiipctida; 

Falcouida; 1, 362 

Formicariida' 514 

Fregatida) VJ 

Frill gil 11 da' : 

North America 4, 205 

Neotrop i cal , 583 

Old World 5'JO 

5, 378 



Galhulidai 

Glareolidie 

Gruidai 

riiematopodida^ 

Helioruithida! 

Hiriuidinida'. : 

North America 1D5 

Neotropical 1^4 

Old World .' lUG 



Ibididai 

Icteridiu : 

North America 133 

Neotropical 094 



Luuiidai: 

North America 

Neotropical 

Old World 



133 

12 

215 



47 

8 
30 
40 

3 



485 
53 



827 



300 
997 



Laridie 

Leptosomida' 2 

Megajiodida' 4 

Meleagri(he 11 

Melipha,u;i(he 150 

Meropidai , ,, 17 



Family. 
Microp<ididai : 

North America 

Neotropical 

Old World 



No. of 
specimons. 

29 
50 
32 
117 



Mimid.ne: 

North America 
Neotropical 



200 
215 



Mniotiltida; : 

North America 1,500 

Neotropical 875 



Momotid;e 

Motacilliche : 

North America 
Neotropical ... 
Old World 



475 



3,435 
71 



141 

24 

327 



492 

Miiscicapithe 114 

4 

2 

37 

4 

11 



Gidicneiaidie 

Oi»isthocomidie 

Oriolida-, 

Oxyrhainjihidie 

Paradiseidie 

Pariche : 

North America 
Neotropical ... 
Old World 



57G 

9 

181 



709 
38 
29 

340 



Parridas 

Pelecaii ida» 

PerdicicJiu 

Ficuhe : 

North America 991 

Neotropical 427 

Old World 104 

1,522 

Pipriche 177 

Pittida-, 13 

Ph(euicopterid;u b 

Phicthontidai 12 

Phalacrocoracidiu 112 

Phalaropodidiu 141 

Pliasianithe 12 

Phytotomida) 7 

Plataleidic 11 

Plocei.he 69 

Plotida; * 18 

Procellariidie 152 

Promeropida^. 108 

P.sittacidic : 

North America 12 

Neotropical and Old 

World 382 

^ 394 



DEPARTMENT OF BIRDS. 



161 



Family. 

Pterocli(l;B 

Pteroptocbida) 

Ptilogouatidas : 

North America. 

Neotropical ... 



No. of 

specimens. 

G 
27 



20 
31 



51 

Pycouonoti(la> '206 

Rallid* 332 

Rccurvirostrida) 55 

Rhampliastid® 130 

Rbyncbopidt'B 22 

Rupicolidi.0 5 

Scolopacidae 1396 



Spbeuiscida) 

StercorariidiB 

StrigidiB 

Sturnidio 

Stilidte 

Sylviidaj : 

North America. 

Neotropical ... 

Old World 



202 

87 

514 



Tauagrida) : 

North America 130 

Neotropical 1334 



Tetraonidaj.. 
ThinocoridiB 
Tinamidae ... 
Todidae 



13 
160 

718 
94 
30 



803 



1464 

475 

22 

54 

20 



Family. 
Trocbilida^ : 

North America 278 

Neotropical 1506 



No. of 

specimens. 



1784 



TroglodytidiB : 

North America. 
Neotropical ... 
Old World 



309 
343 

46 



Trogouidai : 

Neotropical 
Old World.. 



11 



Turdidae : 

North America 590 

Neotropical 342 

Old World 198 

Tyrauuidie: 

North America 788 

Neotropical 1221 



Upupida) 

UriuatoridiD 

Vireouida) : 

North America 275 

Neotropical 304 



189 



1130 



2009 

7 
85 



i79 



Tota4 38875 



The exhibition series consists of about 7,000 specimens, and is deci- 
dedly the least satisfactory part of the collection as regards its general 
utility and chances of preservation. This unfortunate condition of the 
exhibition series arises from several circumstances wholly beyond con- 
trol of the Museum authorities, chief of which are the totally nnsuitablo 
cases, which are so old and badly constructed that both dust and insects 
are freely admitted, and the preservation of the specimens seriously 
jeopardized. Owing also to the faulty construction of the cases, which 
have stationary shelving and are poorly lighted, it is impossible to make 
anything like a neat arrangement of the specimens. 

Of the 7,000 specimens in the exhibition series, more than 4,500 have 
been transferred to the new polished black-walnut stands, thus having 
nearly 2,500 (actually 2,327) which have still to be transferred. None 
of the new printed labels hav^e yet been attached to the stands, there 
being no one to do the work. 

The condition of this drawer series (study collection and duplicates) — 
much the larger and more important part — is, as regards preservation 
from insects, as nearly perfect as possible. The great bulk of the col- 
lection is inclosed in suitable drawers, into each of which has beew 
H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 11 



162 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

placed a sufficient quantity of naphthaline, the best known insecticide, 
121 pounds of which were required for the purpose. A portion of the 
collection (including all the duplicates and part of the reserve series) 
is still included within old and unserviceable cabinets, but requisition 
has been made for new cabinets to take the place of the old ones. The" 
cabinets (two unit cases and four quarter unit) have been furnished, 
but not the drawers, which are, of course, even more necessary than 
the cases themselves. 

Alcoholic series. — The condition of this portion of the collection is all 
that the limited facilities for storage will allow, although the specimens 
badly need attention, especially with view to their re-arrangement, 
which under present dearth of help is impossible to give them. 

The first entry for the year commencing July 1, 1885, was 104,914, 
and the last in the catalogue in June, 1886, 109,060. 



REPORT ON THE SECTION OF BIRDS' EGGS IN THE U. S. NATIONAL 
MUSEUM, FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 80, 1886. 



By Charles E. Bendibe; U. S. Army, Honorary Curator. 



The accessions during tbe year embrace, iu addition to the eggs, 148 
nests, the greater portion of which are XQvy fine specimens, while many 
are new to the Museum collection. The following are the most impor- 
tant additions: 

Anthony, A. W., Beaverton, Oregon : Farus rtifescens (6 eggs) and Perisoreus ohscurut 
(nest and 5 eggs), new to the Museum and tlio only ones known so far ; both from 
Beaverton, Oregon; Scops asio maxwdliw (1 egg), from Colorado. (Gift.) 

Bendire, Capt. Charles E. : Zojwirichia querula (4 eggs), from Little Horn River, Mon- 
tana, and Sco})S trichopsis (4 eggs), from Fort Lowoll, near Tucson, Ariz. (Gift.) 

Gale, Denis, Goldhill, Bowlder County, Colo. : Cincltis mexicanus (nest and 4 eggs). 
(Gift.) 

Go88, Capt. B. F., Feivaukee, Wis. : Nests and eggs (641 specimens, 111 species), some 
new to the Museum, and all very desirable, iuclftding among the rarer species 
sterna caspia (20 eggs in sets of two and three) and Buteo alhicaudautus, new to the 
Museum ; both from near Corpus Christi, Tex. ; Gymnocelia cyanocephala (nest 
and 4 eggs), from Fort Garland, Colo. ; Junco caniceps (nest and 4 eggs), from Han- 
cock, Colo.; Regulus salrapa (nest and 9 eggs), from Grand Mcnan, New Bruns- 
wick; Relminthophaga chrysoptera (2 nests and eggs), from South Michigan, and 
anas fulvigula (set of 10 eggs), both new to the Museum. (Exchange.) 

Stephens, F., San Bernardino, Cat. : Harporhynchus lecontei (2 nests, 7 eggs), in^wto the 
Museum; from California. (Purchased.) 

U. S. Fish Commission : Nests and eggs (60 specimens), including the rare Sanrothera 
bahamensis (2 eggs), contributed by Mr. ,L E. Benedict; collected during the 
cruise of the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross among the Bahama Islands 
April, 1886. 

Wayne, A. T., Charleston, S. C. : Uelonia swainsoni (nest and 2 eggs) ; from near 
Charleston, S. C. New to the collection. (Purchased.) 

The numbering, classifying, and arranging of 1,508 specimens, taking 
tlie record and measurements of 12,000, has been accomplished, a series 
of mostly duplicate eggs has been placed on exhibition, numbering 
1,491 specimens, and a beginning has also been made in exhibiting a 
series of the nests. 

103 



164 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

The following figures indicate the number of specimens now in the 
collection: 

Specimens. 

In tbe reserve collection ^ 31, 124 

Duplicates 11,548 

On exhibition 1, 491 

Total 44,103 

During the year 253 entries have been made on the catalogue book, 
representing an aggregate of 2,55G specimens. 



TtEPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF REPTILES AND BATRACHIANS IN 
THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE :](), 

im. 



By n. C. Yarrow, CL ^'. Army, Honorary Curator. 



The most important additions to tlie Museum in this department for 
the year have been a collection from Olney, III., collected by John and 
Charles Walker, containing 33 specimens;* a collection from Nicaragua, 
from Dr. J. F. Brausford, U. S. Navy, containing 191 specimens, which 
were sent to Prof. E. D. Cope, November 2, 1885; a collection of 471 
specimens from B. Wilkinson, Chihuahua, Mexico, also sent to Professor 
Coi)e, November 2, 1885; a large collection from the Imperial Academy 
of Science, St. Petersburg, Russia, containing 118 specimens; from Dr. 
li. W. Shufeldt, U. S. Army, several good collections from Fort Win- 
gate, N. Mex., consisting mostly of living specimens of Amblystoma.* 
Collections have also been received from Col. M. McDonald,* Wythe, 
ville, Va. ; Dr. B. II. Warren, De Land, Fla. ; Henry Ilemphill, Key 
West, Fla.; Charles Ruby, southern Kansas; Prof. Alfred Duges, 
Guanajuato, Mexico; Miss Dottie Blackburn,* Colorado; John Pollock,* 
Symmes, Ohio; Dr. T. H. Streets, U. S. Navy, Alaska; Dr. H. C. 
Yarrow,* coast of North Carolina; G. H. Ragsdale,* Gainesville, Tex.; 
Capt. Charles Beudire, U. S. Army, Fort Custer, Mont.; Zoological 
Society of Philadelphia;* several specimens from India; H. W. Ilen- 
shaw,* Massachusetts; Charles H. Towusend, Humboldt County, Cal.; 
U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross;* from the Bahamas; Miss 
Rosa Smith,* San Diego, Cal., and many others. 

The routine work of the Department of Reptiles has been carried on 
similar to the way described in previous rei^orts, all specimens being 
carefully attended to and entered in the record books on their arrival. 
In addition to the general work, over six hundred bottles have been 
labeled and placed in the cases, in consequence of which the shelves 
have become very much overcrowded. 

No papers have been published by the curator or his assistant. Prof. 
E. D. Cope has been employed by the Smithsonian Institution on some 



For I'lirther iuibrmatiou, sec Accessiou List, Part V. 

1(;5 



166 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

special work, and lias been busy all the past winter on the manuscripts 
of " Manual of Ilerpetology ; " the report on the Batrachia of North 
America has been completed by Professor Cope to page 050, iuclusive. 
He has also identified all the undetermined Batrachia in the reptile room, 
and hns identified and described the collections made by the various 
correspondents of the Institution in Mexico, Central and South 
America. 

The following table shows the present extent of the collections : 

Number of specimens received during the year 1, 705 

Nunibcr of specimens in reservs series 9,631 

Number of specimens in general series 8,819 

Exhibition series (selected for) 750 

Not classified and exotic specimens, probably 6, 134 

Total •. 27,039 

The number of the last catalogue entry in June, 1885, was 14148, and 
in June, 1886, 14592, giving a total of 444 entries during the year. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF FISHES IN THE U. S. NATIONAL 
MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 81), 1880. 



By Tarleton U. Bean, Curator. 



All the accessions received during' the year are referred to in Part V 
of the report, so that in this place reference is made only to the most 
important ones, which are as follows: 

Capi. Charles E. Bendire, U. S. Army. (Accession 17222); catalogue 37777-37781. 
Specimens of fislies from the Big Horn lliver, Montana, including Lota maculosa, 
Hijodon alosoides, Uranidea scmiscahra, J\otitrus exUis, Ilybof/nalhus placitus. 

Ensign J. B. Bernadou, U. S. Navy. (Accession 1G970) ; catalogue 37754.* NumerouH 
species of fishes from Corea, which are still undetermined. 

E. G. Blackford, New York, N. Y. (Accession 10520) ; catalogue 37307. A fresh speci- 
men of the Jew-fish, Promicrops ilaiara, taken ue«r Newport, R. I., which is far 
to the northward of its usual habitat. 

E. H. Biniktr, Fletcher's Neck Life-Saving Station. Biddeford Fool, Me. (Accession 
17258); catalogue 370<S1. A specimen of the Argentine, Argentina silus. A rare 
visitor to our coast. 

A. N. Cheney, Glens Falls, N. Y. (Accession 16628) ; catalogue 37313. Some speci- 
mens of the Atlantic salmon, which were intro^luced into Clendon Brook, New 
York, by the U. S. Fisli Commission in 1884. 

Daniel T. Church, Tiverton, E. I. (Accession 17308.) A menhaden, Brevoortia fyrannus 
3^ inches long, taken in Narragansett Bay, December 19, 1885. Immense <iuau- 
tities of menhaden were seen in the bay on that date. 

F.N. Clark, Northville, Mich. (Accession 17231); catalogue 37785, 3778G. A common 
white-fish, Coregonus clnpeiformis, and a specimen of Coregonus tullibee. The latter 
is very much desired in the National Museum, as the collection contains only two 
;)r three examples. 

Prof. A.Duges, Guanajuato, Mexico.\ (Accession 16268). Numerous species of fishes 
from Mexico, including the following, which are to bo described : Fundulus dugesi, 
Characodon variegatus, J'errugineus, and bilineatus. (Accession 16401.) Containing 
numerous additional si)ecics, among which are entire specimens of Atoxostoma 
austrinum, by which the identification of the Guanajuato sucker with the genus 
Moxostoma is clearly established. The types of this species lacked the air blad- 
der, but the recent examples are perfect. 

Vinal N. Edwards, Wood^s HoU, Mass. (Accession 17096) ; catalogue 37580. Several 
examples of Apeltes quadracus, which have the dorsal spines IV, I instead of 
III, I. 

* For a partial list of these species see Accession List, Part V. 
tFor further information concerning this accession see Accession List, Part V. 

167 



188 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

D. M. Etheridge, keeper Currituck Inlet Life-Saving Station; post-office, Knott's Island, 

N. C. (Accession 17249) ; catalogue 37790. A si>eciiiien in the ilesli of tlie rare 

Kliark, IIexa)ichnfi i/riscus, wLicli lias not previously been obtained on our 

coast. 
I. Garrard, Frontenac, Minn. (Accession 17417) ; catalogue 37855. A bead of the un- 

spotfed form of the maskallouge, Esox nobilior. 
R. J. Golden, Washington, D.C. (Accession 1734'J); catalogue 37849. A fresh specimen 

of the land-locked form of the Atlantic salmon, Salmo salnr var. sehngo, taken at 

Ragety Point, lower Potomac River, in a trap-net, by the Fannce IJrothers. 
N. Grehnitsli, Bering Island, racific Oecan.* (Accession 1()878.) A fine collection of 

fishes from Commander Islands, in Bering Sea, containing numerous valuable 

species, which are at present under examination. 
Gtvynn Harris, Waslivngton, D. C. (Accession 17371) ; catalogue 37850. A tench, Tt«ca 

vulgaris, caught in the Potomac River. 
Prof. O. P. Hay, Butler University, Irvington, Ind. (Accession 1G219) ; catalogue 373G0- 

37365. A collection of Florida fishes containing types of several new species. 

Zygovecics auroguttatus, Z. noltii, and Etheostoma davidsoni. 
Capl. M. O. Healey, U. S. steamer Convin.i (Accession 16889) ; catalogue 37382-37385. 

A small collection of Alaskan fishes, including Coitus quadricor)iis, whicb is now 

a -well established member of the Alaskan fauna. 

E. B. Hodge, Plymouth, N. H. (Accession 16728) ; catalogue 37357. A brook trout from 

iL.ake Siiuapee, 22 inches long, 6 inches deeii, and weighing 5 pounds. This is 
a Salrelinus of the oquassa type, showing icw important characters by which it 
may bo distinguished from the blue-back of Maine, except its enormous size. It 
has been the subject of considerable discussion in the columns of the Forest 
and Stream, as maybe seen by referring to the bibliographical i)ortion of my 
report. 

E. B. Hodge, Plymouth, X. H. (Accession 16835) ; catalogue 37408-37410. Three addi- 
tional specimens of the new type of Salvelin us, two females and one male, from 
Snnapce Lake. 

Public Museum, Institute of Jamaica, Kingston, Jamaica. (Accession 17165) ; catalogue 
37671-37746. Eighty-two specimens of fishes in duplicate, to be iflentified, and a 
representative of each species returned to the Jamaica Museum. Tliirty-five spe- 
cies were made out, several ot*which are new to this collection. 

W. B. Johnson, Macon, Ga.t (Accession 17697) ; catalogue 37893. A specimen of the 
scale carp, Cyjjriuus carpio, weighing 6J pounds. 

Prof. J). S. Jordan, Bloomington,Ind.^ (Accession 17173) ; catalogue 37747-37750. This 
small collection contained the type of Chatodon aya and o{ Hemirhomhus aihalion. 

Louis Lager, Aberdeen, Dak. (Accession 16921); catalogue 37391. Specimens of I'ime- 
phales promelas from an artesian well. 

William Montgomery, Verona, Mo. (Accession 17210); catalogue 37782-37784. Three 
specimens of Rainbow trout, Salmo irideus, which were introduced into the Ozark 
region of Missouri by the U S. Fish Commission. 

Prof. Felipe Poey, Havana, Cuba. (Accession 16292) ; catalogue 37411-37578. Avery 
large collection of West Indian fishes, among which are the following types: 
Blennius descendens, Chilodiptcrus affinis, Holocentrum productiis, Myxodes paradoxus 
varius and lugubris, Antcnnariusino2>s,I'omaccntrusnireatus, Pomaccntrus brerirostris, 
lAptoconger pcrlongus, Tctrodon affinis, Labrosomus inicrolepidoius. This collection, 
contains a very large number of species and is a very important addition to the 
Museum. 

* For partial list of species see Accession List, Part V. 

t For further information concerning this accession, see Acce.ssion List, Part V. 
t For further intbrmation concerning this accession, see Accession List, Part V. 
§ For further information concerning this accession see Accession List, Part V. 



DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 



169 



Imperial Academy of Science, St. rcicrshitry, J!uKsia. (AcceH.sit)n 1G;554) ; ciitalogue 
:57::240-:57:?()G. A large collection of ideutilied Russian llslics from the rivers, inland 
lakes, and border seas of Ruswia. 

Silas Stearns, Pensacola, Fla. (Accession 17177); catalogue ;577r)l. A line speciincu 
oH Eirincplielus flavolimhalus, wbicli is now said to be the adult form of E. nireuiun 
C. and V. 

Dr. T. n. Streets, U. S. Navy.* (Accession 10890); catalogue r>75H3-:57G19. Two 
kegs of Alaskan fislies, containing twenty-eiglit species. 

C. H. Towvsend, U. S. National ^^Hscllm.\ (Accession 1714(1.) A collection of Alaskan 
fishes principally from Kuwuk River, Northern Alaska. This collection contains 
the Pike, Esox litcius, and the lake tront, Salniinus namayiiinh. 

U. S. Fish Cominission. (Accession 1G712.) Two tanks and 72 jars of marine fishes 
from the Atlantic Ocean off Cape Ilatteras, Cape Fear, and elsewhere. These 
iishes have not yet been fully identified. (Accession 174lJ0.t) Eight tanks, 59 
jars, 52 bottles, and 27 vials containing fishes collected by the stcanujr Jlhatross 
during a cruise to the Bahama Islands and elsewhere, from February to May, 
1886. 

E. Wilkinsou, Chihuahua, Mexico. (Accesssion 16621.) A small collection of Cyprino- 
donts, etc. from Mexico, in which is a specimen of Iladropterus fasciatus, Girard. 
As the types of this species are lost this example will enable us to determiue the 
status of the species. 

Samuel inimoi, New Castle, Ontario. (Accession 1GG87.) Catalogue ;57;?94. Skull of 
a fish resembling the eeljiont, Zoarccs, found on the north shore of the St. Law- 
rence River near the St. John's. This may be an undiscovered species of Zoarces, 
whose habitat is uncertain. 

The number of entries made in tlie catalogue of lislies during' the 
year is 002, the first entry in .Inly, 1885, being- 37,232, and the last entry 
ill June, 1880, 37.893. 

Taijular statement. 



Months. 


Lots 
of fishes 
received. 


Lots of 

fivsh cat.a- 
logued. 


Packages 
sent out. 


Fish 
drawings 
examined. 


.July 


4 

2 

9 

12 

10 

11 

10 

<) 

7 

4 

10 

7 


2 

1 

72 

.50 
20 
19 

268 

ii:5 

27 
46 

i:^ 
31 


5 
11 
4 



1 
4 
2 
1 

•{ 


4 


August 


9 


.Scptciiibcr 


9 


October 


11 


November 


12 


December 




January 


10 


I't-briiary 


6 


March 


3 


April 


5 


May 


4 


J uue 


15 



During the year tliiriy-tliree pai)ers, based upon material belonging 
to the department, were published. The list of these is given in the 
Bibliography (Part iv). 

* For partial list of si)ocies, see Accession List, Part V. 
t For list of species see Accession List, Part V. 
\ For list of species see Accession IJst, Part V. 



170 • REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Some of the fishes identified and otherwise administered upon are as 
follows : 

A collection from Astoria, Oregon, made by Dr. Augnstus Kinney. 

Alaskan fisijes, collected by Capt. M. A. llealy, steamer Corwin. 

Alaskan fishes, collected by Dr. T. H. Streets, U. S. Navy. 

A second collection of Jamaica fishes, received from the Public Museum 
of Kingston, Jamaica. 

Fishes from the Big' Horn River, Montana, collected by Capt. Charles 
E. Bendire, U. S. Army. 

Numerous species from the interior and east coast of Mexico, sent by 
Prof. A. Duges. 

Fresh-water fishes from Virginia and the District of Columbia, re- 
ceived from Mr. Benjamin Miller. 

During the months of August and September the curator accompanied 
the Assistant Director to the U. S. Fish Commission laboratory at Wood's 
Ploll, Mass., when all the collections from the deep-water fauna, made 
by the U. S. Fisli Commission, were brought together. With the great 
advantages of ample space and increased facilities for handling large 
masses of fishes, we were enabled to advance materially the final report, 
which has for several years been in progress upon these collections. 
Ti)e ease and rapidity with which the work has been carried on under 
the favorable conditions supplied at Wood's Holl, is a strong argument 
for the enlargement of the work-rooms assigned to the department of 
fishes in the Museum. 

Dui)licate specimens of fishes have been sent out to the following in- 
stitutions and universities : 

Prof. Fernando Ferrari-Perez, for the National Museum of Mexico. 
One hundred and one species of fishes from the West Indies and the 
Gulf of Mexico. Also, seven casts of fishes. 

Army Medical Museum, Washington, D. C. Seven species of fishes 
in alcohol, sent b}^ request of Dr. Billings. 

Prof. O. P. Hay, Butler University, Irvington, Ind. A specimen of 
Scmotilus biillnris. 

Prof. W. B. Scott, Princeton College, Princeton, N. J, Two speci- 
mens of Amid calva and two of Polyodon folium for study. 

F. L, Washburn, for the museum of Minneapolis, Minn. Seven spe- 
cies of marine fishes in exchange. 

Prof. F. A. Smitt, for the Royal Museum of Natural History, Stock- 
holm, Sweden. The following species of Salmonidw in return for 
Swedish species : HypomesiiH 'pretioHUti^ Osmerus dentex, Thaleichthys 
pacifievs, Mallofus viUosus, Coregonns Dicrlsi, sub sp., iSahno gairdneri, 
Salmo irideus, Salmo piirpuratus, t^alvelinus malma, Oncorhynchus choui- 
cha, Oneorhynchufi nerTca, Oncorhynchus kefa, Oncorhynchus Jcisutch, On- 
corhynchus gorhuscha. 

The card catalogue of the collection of fishes has been brought up to 
date, as, also, the catalogue of drawings. 



DEPARTMENT OF FISHES. 



171 



Tlie wood cuts luivc been fully indexed as far as tliey were identiGed. 
The entire collection of tishes in jars and tanks lias been gone over 
twice, tlie alcohol renewed, and fishes transferred from tanks to large 
jars wl'.enever this was practicable. The deep-sea tishes studied at 
Wood's IToll were installed in study-rooms as conveniently as our lim- 
ited space will permit, while vast nnnd^ers of duplicates have been 
placed in the basement. 

Inuring the year the curator has personally superintended the print- 
ing of Bulletins 23, 28, 29, 30, and 31, of the Museum, besides a volume 
of the Proceedings. 



LIST OF FISHES DRAWN DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 188G. 



July, IHrff) : 
35630. Cithiceps gracilis. Lateral view. 
38220. Ti/nllaates,^. !^. Lateral view. 
37118. (Irrres zehra. Lateral view. 

37233. Ci/priiiufi carpio. Lateral view 
'(leather"). 

Anj^ust, 188:") : 
27G40. rieuronectes stellatiis. 
32442. Coitus dccastroisin. 
3iy()8. FotnmocoUns t/iiloniift. 
2393(). Artediiis iiotnsjiilotiis. 
24007. Liparifi oyclopus. 
27982. Aficrof/adiis pro.rimiis. 
27605. IJippoglo.ssus nih/ariti. 
33834. Mni'iv.uoides ritherrimus. 
27546. LipariH calliodoii. 

September, 1885: 
21718. Stichnms xtnnctatus. 
27514. OlifjoeoUun maculosns. 
Blalce ccxxi. Aphyomis mollis (type). 
Blake xvi. ilonolene airimana (type). 
Blake CXill. Sjnnax 2»isillus. 
Blakcl.iv. Tclcscops coliiml)ia)u(s (type). 
37350. Macrurid n. ^, (type). 
3734(5. Antlnas a rpi Hon or iff (type). 
37345. Chilomi/cicnts. 

(October, 1885 : 
Blake xcin. Xeohythilis yohiistn.t (type). 
Blake i.xxix. Neohylliilis viarginnl as 

(type). 
37332. Elropus rimosus (type). 
37349. Limanda hcanii (tyi)e). 
37348. Jphoristia fasciata. 
37347. Aphorislia dionicdcaiia (ty]ie). 
28778. Aphoristia pnsilhi (type). 

TTonirhomhus Jhnh'riatiis (type). ' 
AlhatvoHs Statio)!, 2431. Plafi/sovialichthys 

hippoylossoidcs. 
Albatross Station, 2376. Apkoristia maryin- 

aia (type). 



Albatross Station, 2543. ? Etropus, young-. 
November, 1885 : 

Glyptocephalus eynoylossits, young. 
Neohythites yillil (type). 
Macrurus caribhwus (typo). 
Stomiatid. 
Blake 1.XXK. Bathyyadiis farosus (type). 

PeriHtediHm. lonyisp<(tha (type). 
lUake cr.xxin Tlalosanrus pallidns (type). 
Th atassophryn e macn losa. 
Citliariclithys monoecros (ty])e). 
37388. Antkias, n. s. 

fpnops mnrrayi. 
B-reymaeeros atlantiois (type) 
December, 1885 : 
lUakexxx. Bathypteros qiiadrifilis. 
Callionymiis ayassizH (type). 
37386. Cottuncnlns forvits. 

liaia. 
Blake ccxliv. Citharichthys spiloptcrns. 
Notosema dilccta. 
Platoplirys vebularis? juv. 
•January, 1886: 
5985. Diodon hystrix. 
5989. Osiracion triquetcr. 
Albatross Station, 2'MG. Monacanlhir-: (Hia- 
tus. 
29(570. Gcnypterus omostiyma (type). 
.37771. Monocantlius. 
37772. Friacanihus. 
37334. Macrurus occa (type). 
Albatross Station, 2317. Ileniirhomlms. 
376(55. Isurns dekayi. 

Blake ci.xxiii. llalosdurus pallidns (type) 
bi.s. 
February, 1886: 
Blake cvii. Scyllium boa. 
37782. Salmo iridcns. 
37801. Argentina silus. 
1745(5. iSalrelinus al^jinus. 



172 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



28599. Salmofarid. 
20688. SalveUniis oquassu. 

March, 1886: 
Albatross Station, 2858. Oreosoma (?). 
Blalc Lx. Peristcdiiim pJatycepliahim 

(type). 
Albatross Station, 2316. ]\[<tlthc vasiita. 
37790. llexanclins griseus. 

April, 1886: 
3785. Notacantlms. 
37861. rtcraclis carolinns. 
Blake xxiii. Jphoristia j)i(/ra.{ty\)e). 
37860. Sudis. 
35637. Faraliparis n. s}). ((type). 

May, 1886: 
3788(). Torpedo. 



BlaJce L.XXX1. Uralcptiisf 
Cor eg onus. 

Salvelhins naniaycush. 
June, 1886 : 
38001. Carcharinits glaucus. 

Coryplutna punctulata. 
Eel. 
Albatross Station, 2663. Synodontid. 
Exococtits. 
Exococtus. 
Albatross Station, 2642. Maiiroliens. 
Albatross Station, 2647. Nomens gronovii. 
Albatross Station, 2665. Gonosioma. 
Albatross Station, 2679. Coryphcena. 
Albatross Station, 2392. 



The number of specimens now in the Museum is estimated to be 
about 75,000, divided as follows : (1) in the reserve series, 38,000 ; (2) 
on exhibition, 22,000; (3) duplicates, 15,000. Numerous additions to 
the duplicate series have been obtained from the deep-sea investiga- 
tions of the TJ. S. Fish Commission. 

The condition of the collection is constantly improving, and would 
be still more rapidly perfected by increasing the space for assorting 
and installing the vast amount of material now crowded into the base- 
ment of the Smithsonian Institution. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS (INCLIIDlNd CENOZOIG 
FOSSILS) IN THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, FOJ^ THE YEAR ENDING 
JUNE 311, laiiG. 



By Wm. U. Dall, Honorary Curator. 



The character of the accessions to tliis departmeiit duriii;»' the past 
year is, as usnal, fairly enough iudicated in the list of accessions,* and 
includes about 75 accession entries. 

As usual, the collecition is indebted -to the U. S. Fish Coinniissiou 
and its officers for the largest enHcmhlc of donations from a single source. 
The material received is all from south of Cape Ilatteras, all that from 
north of this ])oint being retained for study at New Haven, by Prof. 
A.E. Verrill. This collection, besides the common littoral shells brought 
back in quantity, contained a fair proportion of deep-water species, ihe 
study of which is of extraordinary interest. 

Among the named species received during the year and which are of 
more than ordinary interest may be mentioned a selection of 71 species 
of shells from Bering Sea, illustrating a recent report by Dr. A. Krause 
of the exi)edition sent out by the Bremen Geographical Society ; a 
small series of land and fresh-water shells from Manitoba, illustrating 
yi paper by the donor, Mr. Kobert Miller Christy, and a very line series of 
Madagascar land-shells of remarkable character received from Edward 
Bartlett, esq. 

From the arctic and boreal province we have received a valuable lot 

'of dredgings by the U. S. revenue-cutter Corwin, Capt. M. A. Uealy, 

U. S. llevenue Marine, from the Arctic Ocean near Bering Strait, and 

a small but interesting series from the Connnander Islands, from the 

Governor Kikolai Grebnitzki,*of the liussian service. 

From the subtropical region Mr. Charles T. Simpson has contributed 
a valuable and interesting series of shallow-water species from South 
Florida and the Keys as well as the coast of Honduras. Prof. A. G. 
Wetherby has also sent some very interesting species from the coast of 
northwestern Florida. 

Prof. J. H. Morrison has sent from the groumls of the Virginia Mili- 
tary Institute, Lexington, Va., a series of Helix hortensifi Linne, inter- 

" '~'^ *Part V. ' ' ' 

173 



174 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

estiug as beiug a totally new locality for this attractive imported spe. 
cies. 

Among fossils, James Shepard, esq., has contributed a box of very 
beautiful silicified shells from the well-known deposit, described by Cou- 
rad many years ago, on the Hillsboro' Bay arm of Tampa Bay, West 
Florida. 

On the whole the accessions of the year, while not including auy col- 
lection of extraordinary size, have brought to the department of Mol. 
lusks a full share of valuable and interesting material, more than in 
many previous years, if not so much as in a few exceptional seasons, 
and, as usual, more than the present force could deal with while still 
hard at work on the arrears of previous seasons. 

The routine work of the department consists in the unpacking, clean- 
ing, assorting, classifying, labeling, registering, putting on exhibition or 
in its proper place in the study series, of each lot of new material which 
comes in ; besides eliminating duplicates and packing them in such 
sha])e as to be conveniently accessible when needed for distribution. 

Specimens which have been studied or named before being received 
have part of the above work already done, but in general the above is re- 
quired for each lot or a series from each lot of specimens. The smaller 
species are put in vials, corked, to save them from dust or injury, to- 
gether with a slip bearing the registration number, which also appears 
upon the label, or if the shell is large enough and has a proper surface 
is indelibly written on the specimen itself. Fossils generally require 
to be treated with a solution of shellac before they will bear marking, 
but the old and objectionable method of mounting specimens on tab- 
lets has, for the study collection of the U. S. lsI"ational Museum, been 
definitely abandoned. It will be noted, therefore, that each speci- 
men or lot of specimens which are entered under one registration 
number (and always comprising but one species or variety from one 
locality) undergoes seven or eight different bits of treatment, and re- 
quires, before it is put aside, a traj'^, a label, a number, a corked vial 
(or a number written on), and a line in the registration book. In the 
ideal condition of the collection to be attained hereafter, each lot will*- 
also have its place on a card which will form one of a series or card cata- 
logue, embracing all the specimens which are or at any time have been 
in the Museum, and recording the data relating to them. This, how- 
ever, in the present state of the force, can only be anticipated, at 
least for departments including such a vast quantity of material as is 
embraced under the general head of Mollusks. 

Besides the routine work on the recent and fossil shells which ap- 
l)ear in the form of donations or exchanges, or arrears of past years, 
which are still formidable, there is the administrative work of the de- 
partment. This includes its relation to the Museum as a whole, and 
to the objects of the Museum as exemplified in the use of the material 
in its possession. 



DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS. 175 

The mere piling up or acciimulation of named, labeled, and classified 
shells is, of itself, of value only to the person who goes through with 
the mental and i)hysical exertion it requires. To justify the existence 
of a public museum it is generally admitted it must do more than this. 

In the Department of Mollusks the following objects are steadily kept 
in view, and the progress made is directly or indirectly instrumeutal 
toward the attainment of them : 

(1) The preservation of types which have served for previous study 
as a means of verifying the accuracy of past work or the proper orien- 
tation of new researches. 

(2) The full representation of American forms in the study collection; 
not only that the fauna of our own country may be fully known but 
for ease in assisting American students to recognize the forms of their 
local collections, and for the benefit of the foreign student, who may 
thus make his comparisons or researches in one place with the least ex- 
penditure of time, travel, and expense. 

Under the two i)revious heads the Biuney collection of North Ameri- 
can land shells has been arranged in a special case, numbered and 
arranged to correspond with the last publication on the subject by Mr. 
Binney. 

Considerable progress has been made with the other American land 
shells, and the present year will certainly see our collections of this 
sort in complete order for ready reference by the naturalist or paleon- 
tologist. 

(3) The instruction and entertainment of the iiublic, who, drawn by 
curiosity or the love of beautiful and unusual objects, come to view the 
contents of the Museum which are on exhibition. 

The curator has been convinced by past experience that to be useful 
to the general public a collection of biologic material should not be too 
large, should be arranged on as simple a plan as can be devised, and 
should have as many and as large legible labels as is consistent with 
the i)roper visibility of the objects in the case. 

If the cases for exhibition can be so filled and arranged as to teach a 
lesson which he who runs may read, it is my opinion that they come 
near doing their best possible work for the average visitor. 

In this view the cases devoted to the shell exhibit are for the passer 
by and not for the student, unless a beginner. One case arranged by 
the curator has been devoted to the cKef types of Oephalopods, to 
pearls and pearl formations, cameo shell and sections showing the inter- 
nal structure of various large and ornamental species. The sections of 
the recent and the fossil Nautiloids are put side by side. Specimens of 
the SpiruJa, Loligo, Sepia, etc., in alcohol fully labeled, alternate with 
stands on whicli are mounted the shelly parts of the same genus. 

The various shells which produce jiearls stand by the side of the 
pearl itself mounted in a vertical tube with a hemispherical end, 



17G REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

under which, on a blackened surface, the pearl reposes in safety from 
dust or loss, while the base is large enough to display a i>roper label. 

A specimen pair of Tridacna gigas, weighing 305 pounds, has been 
mounted as an exemplar of the largest known moUusk of recent seas. 

Under the careful supervision of Dr. Stearns various cases, contain- 
ing selections of edible or economic mollusks from the Atlantic and Pa- 
cific, of ornamental species from tropical seas, of the ordinary species 
of our Atlantic beaches familiar to sojourners at watering places on the 
sea- shore, and of the land and fresh water species from our lakes and 
streams, have been put on exhibition, with proper labels, which, how- 
ever, had in some cases to be written, since the printed series have been 
delayed and it was not thought well to wait for them. 

The series for which exhibition cases are at present available will, 
without doubt, be completely arranged early in the course of the pres- 
ent year. 

Fair progress has been made in the determination of the mollusks of 
the southeastern coast of the United States and adjacent waters, for 
which only at the present time have we begun to possess material 
which should make a thorough illustration of this area possible. 

Another element of the routine work which enters largely into the 
exertions required of the curator and his assistants is that of furnish- 
ing specialists or students with names, information, objects having an 
important bearing on investigations in progress, or special collections 
for school or class purposes. This work is constant, and the corre- 
spondence relating to it averages a page a day during the working days 
of the year. The curator has endeavored to assist not merely those 
who had by contributions to the Museum or their scientific standing an 
official claim upon his attention, or those to whose needs his attention had 
been formally called by the Museum authorities, but also all who have 
applied, whether considerate in their requests or otherwise, as some- 
times happens. The character of this work can be judged by a refer- 
ence to the list of egressions in the Appendix. 

Besides these matters, the curator's official duties as the Paleontolo- 
gist in charge of the Division of Cenozoic Paleontology for the U. S. 
Geological Survey (by favor of whose Director, Maj. J. W. Powell, he 
has been permitted to embrace both fields of labor in his daily occupa- 
tion), have, of course, precedence, and imperative claims upon his time 
for determination of specimens, and reports, monthly, annual, or occa- 
sional, as well as other things. These being taken into consideration 
with the character and amount of the routine work as above briefly 
sketched, it will, in the opinion of the curator, appear that the results 
in the shape of work, statistically stated elsewhere in this report, are 
fully abreast of the opportunities offered by the situation. 

A list of the papers published by the curator and others, and bearing 
^ directly or indirectky upon the work of this department, will be found 
in Part ly, 



DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS. 177 

The iiiauual of North American hiud shells, by Mr. W. (x. Biuuey,* 
is based iu hirgepart upon a collectiou named and presented by him, 
which has been arranged in accordance with the manual and placed in a 
special case for immediate reference at any time by those interested. 

The bibliography of the writings of the venerable Nestor of conchjlogy 
in the United States, Dr. Isaac Lea,t is also noticed in the Museum 
bibliography. The types of the species, with few exceptions, are con- 
tained in the National Collection, which has been enriched fr om time to 
time from Dr. Lea's unrivaled cabinet. 

LIST OF EGRESSIONS. 

Services have been rendered and material sent out by the department 
of mollusks and cenozoic invertebrate palieontology, as follows: (1) 
For educational purposes, to teachers, to isolated students, etc.; (L*) in 
return or exchange for material received for the Mnseum from colIe(;t- 
ors; (3) for the promotion of science by enabling special students to 
compare and study forms otherwise inaccessible to them. 

J(jassi::, Prof . Alexander, Cambridge, Mass. Deep-sea Pelecypod mollusks (;il)out 2'>0 
species aud a mucli larger number of specimens), dredged by the U. S. steamer 
Z>/aA:e, under the direction of Professor Agassiz ; determined, classitied, and de- 
scribed. This work, concluded with the current year, has in reality occupied 
much of the curator's leisure for the last seven years, and the results are believed 
to be important for science. 

Boyce, S, E., Santa Barbara, Cal. Forty-seven specimens, 21 species, sent in return 
for economic mollusks received by the Museum. (Juno 10, 188(5.) 

Bryan, 0. N., Marshall Hall, Md. About 150 specimens, .^)0 species of sliells, furnislied 
in exchange. (October 10, 1885.) 

Greely, Lieut. Adol^ilms W., U. S. Army. A number of speciinens aiul drawings made 
or collected at Lady Franklin Bay; ideutitied as far as practicable. (April 1, 
188(1.) 

Haddon, Frof. A. C, Eoyal Colleye of Sciences, Dublin, Ireland. Chitons (20 specimens, 
14 species) furnished.. for study. (July 9, 1885.) 

Hemphill, Henry, San Diego, Cal. Nanies of shells furnished ou various occasions, 
also shells (12 specimens, G species) in exchange. (July 9, 1885.) 

IJillcll, J., Allentown, Pa. Shell of Teredo, for study. (November 26, 1885.) 

Jackson, Rev. Sheldon, Washington, D. C. Information furnished. (February '.i, 188G.) 

Knott, W. T., Lebanon, Ky. Shells (105 specimens, 44 species) sent in return for con- 
tributions to the Museum. (October 20, 1885.) 

Lehnert, Rev. E., Washington, D. C. Florida shells, named in response to personal ap- 
plication. (December 19, 1885.) 

Lockley, Miss Louise, Butte, Mont. Shells (160 specimens, 8^5 species), as educational 
series. (February 12, 1886.) 

McMtirrich, Prof. J. Playfaiv, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md. Iiiforuiatiuu 
furnished on written application. (January 7, 1886.) 

Mazyck, W. G., Charleston, S. C. Shells nanu!d. (January 21, 1886.) Information 
furnished. (May 18, 1866.) 

* Bulletin 28, U. S. National Museum. 

t Bulletin 23, U. S. National Museum, prepared by Newton P. Scudder. 

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 13 



178 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



Mus^e Royalc d'Histoire Katurellf, Brtixelles, Belgium, Pteropods Jind copies of water- 
color drawings, from life, of Pacific Pteropods, furnished for use in special investi- 
gations iu progress by Dr. Paul Pelseneer of that museum. (April 2, 1886.) 

Newlon, Dr. W. S., Oswego, Kansas : Fresh- water shells (6 lots), named and reported 
on at different times. 

Orcult, C.B., San Diego, Cal. Shellsuanied. (January 4, 1886.) Shells (62 specimens, 
116 species) sent in return for material received by the Museum. (June 10, 1886.) 

Pelseneer, Dr. Paul, BruxeUes, Belgium. Information furnished. (April 1, 1886, May 
29, and June 22, 1886.) 

Pounds, S. P., Washington, D. C. Shells (197 specimens, 52 species), furnished for edu- 
cational purposes. (November 2, 1885.) 

Push, Dr. TV. H., U. S. Navy, U. S. Steamer Blake. Autilleau shells (about 150 spe- 
cies), named in return for services rendered the Museum. (December 17, 18, 1885.) 

Smith, Edgar A., British Museum, London, England. An Amusium, sent for study. 
(April 30, 1886.) 

Taylor, Dr. L. M., Washington, D. C. An Octopus rugosus, identified. (November, 
1885.) 

Tryon, G. W.,jr., Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa. Infor- 
mation furnished. (January 26, 1886.) An Operculum, donated for purposes of 
study. (December 5, 1885. ) 

Walker, Chas. W., Lawrence, Mass. Information furnished. (May 31, 1886.) 

Wetherly, Prof. A. G., Cincinnati, Ohio. Information furnished. (January 30, 1886.) 

Whiteares, J. F., Paleontologist, Dominion Geological Survey, Ottawa, Canada. Informa- 
tion furnished and specimens identified. (March 29, April 24, June 6, and June 
9,1886.) 

LIST OF ENTRIES IN REGISTER OF MOLLUSKS. 



Entries. 


Number. 


2138 to 2151 

9404 9526 

12258 12501 

27625 27671 

28070 28080 

33676 33751 

34630 34651 

37503 38750 

38751 39901 

40522 40902 

41426 41675 

43651 46150 

48551 49050 

50226 .51200 

52000 52239 

52888 53207 

53451 58350 

58351 63250 

63251 ■ 64005 

Total 


13 

122 

243 

46 

10 

75 

21 

1,247 

1,150 

380 

249 

2,499 

499 

974 

239 

319 

4,899 

4,899 

754 


16, 638 





Note. — At an average of three specimens to an entry this would indicate between 
50,000 and 60,000 specimens finally administered upon in 188.5-'86. 



DEPARTMENT OF MOLLUSKS. 179 

CONDITION OF THE COLLECTION OF MOLLUSKS. 

As stated in previous reports the total u umber of si)ecimeiis iu the 
collection can only be estimated. I^ot includiuj^ the material in the 
hands of Professor Verrill and assistants, but including duplicates 
and alcoholic specimens, the total last year must have been in the vicin- 
ity of 400,000. The number received during the year has not been 
counted, as much of it still remains in the original packages. Not until 
our arrearages are closed up shall we be able to state categorically the 
annual numerical changes in a collection comprising so many minute 
objects, of which there may be hundreds iu a single box or bottle. 

The number of entries in the Museum register of mollusks, including 
quaternary fossils, from July 1, 1885, to June 30, 1886, inclusive, was 
18,638, representing between 50,000 and 00,000 individual specimens. 
During the twenty years or more which have passed over the collection 
since I first made acquaintance with it up to July 1, 1885, the total 
number of entries has been 42,440 5 ^^" Q^uch less than three times as 
many as have been attended to in the single year just closed. 

During the past year we have closed up all vacancies in the catalogue 
arising from whatever causes, except those where numbers have been 
reserved for Professor Verrill for use iu connection with the Fish Com- 
mission collection temporarily at New Haven. In future, therefore, 
the schedule of entries given in the appendix to this report will proba- 
bly be Hjuch less complicated. The last number actually used iu 1886 
was 64005, but the full schedule is comprised in Appendix C. 

As explained above and iu previous reports a categorical enumera- 
tion of the material, reserve and duplicate, in the custody of this de- 
partment is at present impracticable, and even an estimate must neces- 
sarily be of a very approximate nature. 

The need of intelligent clerical assistance in this department is greater 
than ever since the disablement of our most efiicient clerk by illness, the 
termination of which can not yet be predicted. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS IN THE U. S. NATIONAL 
MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE ;10, 1880. 



By C. V. Riley, Honorary Curator. 



Beyond tlie mere preservation of accessions and proper attention to 
correspondence little original Mnseum work has been attempted, as 
the curator's services are voluntary, and the only assistance furnished 
was the temporary employment for a few months of Mr. Albert Koe- 
bele. Much was, however, done, indirectly, through the Entomologi- 
cal Division of the Department of Agriculture, as more or less jiure 
Mnseum work is consectaneous with that of said division. 

In August, 1885, Mr. J. B. Smith, of Brooklyn, N. Y., already favor- 
ably known by his writings on Lepidoptera and Coleoptera and by 
his activity as a member of the Brooklyn Entomological Society, was, 
upon my leconimendation, appointed as Jissistant, and with this ap- 
pointment assured I formally donated my jirivate collections to the 
Museum. 

THE KILEY DONATION. 

This is mentioned among the accessions as No. 1G738, and as the cir- 
cumstances connected with the donation will i^robably be alluded to in 
the report of the Assistant Director, I give in this connection merely a 
general statement of its contents and condition, as follows : 

PINNKD MATERIAL. 



Ilymenoptera 

Coleopteiu 

I.cpidoptcra 

Diptera 

Hemiptera 

Ort hoptera 

NfMiroptera 

Aiacliuida and Myripoda 

Insfict aitdiitcctnro 

MiscelliiTieoiiH (not yet arranged). 
Galls and gall inHects 



Total, pinned. 



Boxes. 



GG 

127 

■'538 

21 

59 

G4 

14 

2 

16 

2S 
31 



76G 



Speci- 
jnens. 



24,796 

43, 613 

17, 098 

.^), GIG 

8, 862 

6, 903 

868 

42.^) 

1 , 080 

1,610 

4, 152 



115, 053 



Species. 



2, 650 

6, .558 

2, 308 

fi99 

1,184 

.560 

l(i9 

110 

178 

178 

734 



15, 328 



181 



182 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

In additiou to these pinned specimens, the collection contains some 
nineteen large boxes of alcoholic material, chiefly of the adolescent states 
of insects, comprisiug some 2,850 vials, in many cases several species 
being contained in a single vial. The early states of the minuter in- 
sects are mounted in balsam on slides (1 by 3 inches), of which the col- 
lection contains upward of 3,000, most of the slides holding the contents 
of three cover glasses. The collection contains a large number of un- 
described species in all orders. 

The mounted material is contained for the most part in double-folding 
boxes, about 32 by 22 by 8 centimeters, made into book form and care- 
fully lined on both sides with cork and covered with paper. A certain 
proportion of the boxes are less than 7 centimeters wide and are lined 
only on one side. There are also two cabinets, one with sixteen large 
glass-covered drawers, and another (still at ray residence for want of 
room) of sixty glass-covered drawers. The specimens are all duly classi- 
fied and labeled, and in excellent order and ijreservation. The labels 
include notes as to locality and food habit, and are also in many cases 
numbered to correspond to detailed notes as to adolescent states and 
habits. The collection was begun twenty-five years ago, and represents 
my continuous collectings since, including my own types and many of 
other authors received in exchange. It embraces few exotic species, 
and is more particularly rich in biological material, containing more 
blown and alcoholic larvas and pupa3 in connection with their imagos 
than perhaps any other collection of North American insects. Includ- 
ing the nnarranged and alcoholic material not connected with the pinned 
specimens, there are over 20,000 species in the collection. 

With this new departure and the permanent establishment of the de- 
partment it may not be inappropriate to state what should be the aims 
and objects of such a department, or at least what I conceive they should 
be and shall strive for. Collections of objects intelligently brought to- 
gether are necessarily educational in influence; but a national collection 
of insects, on account of the very great number of species and the ex- 
ceeding minuteness and the fragility of the great majority of the species, 
as comi)ared with other animals, must needs have a dual character, and 
should consist of (I) the cabinet or study collection proj)er and (2) the 
exhibit collection. 

The ideal cabinet collection of a National Museum should represent, 
as completely as possible, the insect fauna of the country, properly 
classified and determined. It can, necessarily, have little interest for 
the public at large and should be consecrated to the use of the special- 
ist and to the advancement of the science of entomology. For this 
purpose it should be most carefully guarded and conserved in the best- 
made drawers and cases and secured alike from light and the too con- 
stant handling of the mere curious. It should constitute a study col- 
lection to which workers are drawn for unpublished facts and for 
comi)arisons and determinations. It should be so well conserved and 



DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS. 183 

provided for as to induce descrihers of new species to add to it their 
t3'pes or autlientic duplicates thereof. It will bo many years ere such 
an ideal collection can be gotten together, and none now living may 
witness it, but the material now on hand forms a good foundation for it. 

The exhibit collection should be somethitig entirely indepeiulent and 
apart from the other, and, on account of the rapid deterioration of in- 
sect specimens constantly on exhibition and necessarily much exposed 
to light, should consist, as far as possible, of duj^Iicates only, or of such 
commoner species as can be easily replaced. Ijitended for the instruc- 
tion and edilication of the lay visitor to the Museum, it should illus- 
trate in the boldest possible way the salient characters of the class, the 
larger classifactory divisions and the structures on which they are 
based, the wonderful metamori^hoses and economies of the commoner 
and easily recognized species and particularly in their relations to man 
either directly or indirectly through injury or benefit. 

The value of such an exhibit collection depends very much on con- 
spicuity, and this can best be obtained by the liberal use of diagrams 
and enlarged drawings, as the majority of the most interesting species 
ami those which most concern men are almost microscopic in size. 
Sucli an exhibit collectioiv will miss its mark and object whenever it ex- 
ceeds these limits, and by too much detail seeks to interest and instruct 
the specialist or in other ways trenches on the function of the study 
collection. As the Museum, in this department, will, in accordance 
with statute (Revised Statutes, sec. 5580), receive a great deal of its best 
material through the Department of Agriculture, one of the chief aims 
of this national collection should be to reciprocate, not only by preserv- 
ing all systematic material and thus aiding said Department of Agri- 
culture in necessary determinations, but by giving particular attention 
to the biological side of the collection. This I have endeavored to do, 
and the collections illustrating the biology of North American insects 
are probably the largest in the world. 

The character of the drawers and cabinets employed in such a national 
collection is important ; for ni)on it the future preservation of specimens 
very greatly depends. Knowing it to be Professor Goode's desire to 
adapt, as far as possible, the drawers used in all departments to the 
unit size which he has adopted for the Museum, some effort was made 
in this direction, but the adaptation, while possible for the exhibit col- 
lection, was found impracticable, or at least very undesirable, for the 
study collection. Hence, after carefully studying, in person, the differ- 
ent forms and patterns used for entomological collections both in this 
country and Europe, as well as by private individuals and public in- 
stitutions, we have adopted a drawer and cabinet essentially after the 
pattern of those used in the British (South Kensington) Museum, best 
adapted in size to our own recinirements or conception. The drawers are 
square, with an outside measurement of 18 inches and an outside depth 
of 3 inches. The sides and back have a thickness of three-eighths of au 



184 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

inch, while tbe front is five-eighths of an incli thick. Tbo pieces are 
firmly dove-tailed together, the front being clean and the dove-tailing 
blind. The bottom is of three-ply cross-grained veneer, ran into a 
groove at the sides, leaving a clear inside depth of 2y'g inches to the 
frame of the cover. The bottoms are lined in all bnt forty of the drawers 
with first quality cork one-fourth of an inch thick. At a distance of one- 
fonrth of an inch from the sides and back and three-eighths of an inch 
from the front there is an inside box of one-eighth inch whitewood closely 
fitted, and held in place'by blocks between it and the outer box. There 
is thus between the inner and outer box a clear space all round, in which 
insecticides or disinfectants can be placed to keep out Museum pests, 
making it impossible for such to get into the inner box containing the 
specimens without first passing through this poisonous chamber. The 
entire inside is lined with white paper, or, in the case of the uncorked 
boxes, painted with zinc-white. The front is furnished with a plain 
knob. The cover is of glass, set into a frame three-fourths of an inch 
wide, three-eighths of an inch thick, with a one-fourth-inch tongue 
fitting closely into the space between the inner lining and outer box, 
which here serves as a groove. This arrangement secures a perfectly 
tight box of convenient size, and not unwieldy for handling when study- 
ing the collection. 

The material of which these boxes are made is California redwood, 
except the cover frame, which is mahogany. The cabinets containing 
these drawers are 36 inches high, 40 inches wide, 21 inches deep (all 
outside measurements), and are closed by two paneled doors. Each 
cabinet contains twenty drawers in two rows of ten each, the drawers 
running on hard-wood tongues which fit into grooves on the side of the 
box. These cabinets are also of redwood. In the selection of redwood 
as material for the drawers and cabinets the Curator was influenced by 
a desire to secure a handsome piece of furniture at a moderate cost, and 
if carefully finished they would have answered expectations. As, how- 
ever, it was necessary under the present laws to give the work to the 
lowest bidder, the contract for making them was awarded to one who 
furnished a set of cabinets which were barely within the specifications. 
The work is machine finished, carelessly put together, and evidently 
run through with little regard for anything save to come within the 
absolute terms of the specifications. 

The cabinets therefore, while very satisfactory, convenient, and safe, 
do not present the neat and tasty appearance and careful finish that 
they would have had if they had been made by a careful and skilled 
mechanic. In future we intend to use cherry for the cabinets and ma- 
hogany for the drawers. These woods, while more expensive, are much 
more durable, and in all respects preferable. 

The bulk of the collection is still contained in small folding boxes 
which are admirably suited for containing a working collection, espe- 



DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS. 185 

ciully of those orders coraprisiag smaller insects like Goleoptera, IJy- 
menoptera, etc. These foUling boxes have tlie great advantage of being 
readily re-arranged upon shelves and of being very easily used in 
study. 

The folding boxes finally adopted are of white pine, shellacked, and 
varnished, the bottom and top double, and cross-grained to prevent 
warping. They are 13 by 8;^ inches outside measurement, the top and 
bottom projecting slightly at the front and sides. The inside measure- 
ment is lljl by 7. The sides, back, and front are five-sixteenths of an 
inch thick, with a machine joint, which is neat and very secure. The 
boxes are 2^ inches in outside depth, unequally divided, the lower por- 
tion ii inches outside depth, lined inside with a thin whitewood lining, 
I)rojecting three-fourths of an inch above the rim of the outside box. 
Over this projecting lining the cover part of the box closes and makes 
thus a <lust and museum pest- tight box. The bottom is cork-lined and 
covered with a fine white glazed i)aper. 

All the boxes are furnished with neat brass label holders into which 
a card containing a list of the contents can be readily placed and re- 
moved at pleasure. The two parts of the box are hinged together and 
held closed by two small brass hooks closing over a neat brass screw. 
Similar boxes have been used by a number of collectors and given some 
satisfaction. The good features of all are, we believe, united in this 
box, the workmanship of which also leaves little to be desired. 

The biological material is, very much of it, alcoholic, for though many 
of the immature states of insects may be preserved by dry processes 
yet the bulk must needs be kept in alcohol. Where the material is in 
duplicate it is well, when it is not too heavy or cumbersome, to place 
such biological material with the systematic collection, yet experience 
has taught me that it is wiser to make a separate biological collection, 
and this it is proposed to do. This collection will in fact be a feature 
of the Museum collection in the future. Hence it was very desirable to 
adopt some method of securing the vials in such a manner that they can 
be easily moved from one place to another, and fastened in the ordinary 
boxes and drawers employed for pinned insects. The vials in use to 
preserve such specimens as must be left in alcohol or other liquids are 
straight glass tubes of varying diameters and lengths with round bot- 
tom and smooth, even mouth. The stopi)les in use are of rubber, which, 
when tightly ])ut into the vial, the air being nearly all expelled, keep 
the contents of the vial intact and safe for years. 

Various forms of bottles sire used in museums for the preservation of 
minute alcoholic material. I have tried the flattened and the square and 
have studied various other forms of these vials ; but I am satisfied that 
those just described, which are in use by Dr. Ilagen in the Cambridge 
Museum, are, all things considered, the most convenient and economi- 
cal. A more difficult problem to solve was a convenient aiwl satisfac- 



186 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

tory method of holding these vials and of fastening them into drawers 
or cases held at all angles, from perpendicular to horizontal. Most alco- 
holic collections are simply kept standing, either in tubes with broad 
bases or in tubes held in wooden or other receptacles; but for a biolog- 
ical collection of insects something that could be used in connection 
with the pinned specimens and that could be easily removed from place 
to i)lace was desirable. After trying many different contrivances I 
finally prepared a block, with Mr. Hawley's assistance, which answers 
every purpose of simplicity, neatness, security, and convenience. It is, 
so far as I know, unique, and wiM be of advantage for the same purpose 
to other museums. Hence I have concluded in this report to give a 
brief description of it. It has been in use now for the past three years, 
and in every way has been of great help and satisfaction in the arrange- 
ment and preservation of the alcoholic specimens. 

The blocks are oblong, one-fourth of an inch thick, the ends (c c, fig. 1) 
beveled, the sides straight. They vary of course in length and breadth, 
according to the different sizes of the vials, and are painted white. 
Upon the upper side of these blocks are fastened two curved clamps of 
spring wire {h h, fig. 2), forming about two-thirds of a complete circle. 
The fastening to the block is simple and secure. The wire is first bent 
into a loop as shown in figure, a brad-awl is used to make a slot in the 
block into which this loop is forced {e, fig. 3), a drop of warm water 
being first put into the slot to soften the wood which swells and closes 
so firmly around the wire that it requires considerable force to pull it 
out. Four pointed wire nails {d d d d, tig. 4) set into the bottom so as 
toi^roject about one-fourth an inch serve to hold the block to the cork 
bottom of the case or drawer in which it is desirable to place it. The 
method of use is simple and readily seen from the corresponding figures 
which represent the block from all sides. 

The advantages of the block are the ease and security with which it 
can be placed into or removed from a box, the ease with which a vial 
can be slipped into or removed from the wire clamps, the security with 
which it is held, and the fact that practically no part of the contents 
of the vial is obscured by the holder — tlie whole being visible from 
above. 

The beveled ends of the block may be used for labeling, or pieces of 
clean card-board cut so as to jiroject somewhat on all sides may be 
used for this purpose and will be held secure by the pins between the 
block and the cork of the drawers. 

Our routine work has consisted of (1) acknowledgment and preserva- 
tion of the accessions, (2) the departmental correspondence, (3) the de- 
termination of material sent in for naming, (4) exchanges, (5) utilization 
of old alcoholic material, (G) work on the exhibit collection, (7) work on 
the study collection, (8) ])roper supervision and preservation of all col- 
lections, and may be more fully considered under these several heads. 



Report of National Museum, 1885. — Riley. 



Plate I. 





u u U 



<^ 



m ^ 




ViAL-HOLDER DESIGNED BY C. V. RiLEY, AND IN USE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS. 

(I. the block ; /), spring; wire damps ; r, bev.-k'd t-nds in block ; (h pointed wire nails. iLetterinK on 
all figures the same.) 



DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS. 187 

The following list comimses a few of the most important accessions 
of the year :* 

16364. A large lot of miscellaneous insects from Dr. R. W. Shuieklt, Fort Wiugate, 
N. Mex. ; received September 3 and 5, 1885. This lot of insects contained a 
very large number of specimens of all orders, embracing just such species 
as a superficial collection would make in that locality. The insects were 
all mounted and determined, at considerable expenditure of time and labor, 
and a tolerably complete list of the material was sent to Dr. Shufeldt. It 
contained a few species of value to the Museum, but more of them were du- 
plicates, and some of them, owing to their being preserved in alcohol, were 
useless. 

16408. Mixed insects (13 vials) from Panama, from Drs. George W. and Wolfred Nel- 
son, 346 and 348 Broadway, New York ; received September 7, 1885. Most 
of these were the couunon Central American forms, but the specimens were 
mostly good and useful as exhibit material. 

16101. A large lot of Coleoiitera (unmounted), from Prof. A. Dng(>a, Guanajuato, 
Mexico; received September 11, 1885. Tliis collection was all mounted and 
arranged and partly determined. There were many species and considerably 
more than 1,.500 specimens. Some of these insects have been used in the ex- 
hibition collection and others are held as the nucleus to a collection of Mex- 
ican Coleoptera. 

16558. Several specimens of the larvae of Eristalis tenai:, from Dr. O. R. Early, Ken- 
tucky street, Columlius, Ky., said to have been taken from tlie bowels of a 
female patient. A letter was written to Dr. Early asking further details 
and evidence as to the fact of this locality for the larva, but no reply was 
ever obtained. Whether the doctor found his oi'iginal statement based upon 
a misapprehension or whether professional duties ]>revented can not be dis- 
covered. 

16626. Bot-fly larva of the genus Cuterehra, from the neck of a lady, presented by 
Miss Lavinia C. Dundore, Washington, D. C. A most interesting accession 
and contribution to the subject of parasites upon man. Its parasitism upon 
the human species is doubtless accidental, and at the same time the circum- 
stances of the case itself are so interesting that wo shall refer to them again 
at greater length at some future time. 

167.38. Collection of about 800 boxes, containing 118,000 specimens of 20,000 species 
of insects from various localities, from Prof. C. V. Riley, Washington, D. C. 
The regular accession card of this collection was received November 3, 1085, 
but the collection had practically been in the possession of the Museum long 
previously. Under this accession is included our donation to the Mnseum, 
referred to at greater length in another portion of the report. 

17077. Exotic Lei)idoptera (95), mostly duplicates, from Europe, spread and in good 

condition, from John B. Smith, the assistant curator; received January 13, 
1886. 

17078. Exotic Lepidoptera (4:! specimens, 31 species), mostly from Africa and India, 

spread and in good condition, from B. Neumoegon, box 2581, New York City. 
These specimens were obtained by the assistant curator during a brief visit 
to New York City, where he also determined many of the exotic Lepidop- 
tera which were unnamed in the Museum collection. 
16345. Alcoholic insects (3 vials), from Wytheville, Va. ; received January 13, 1886. 

* In Part V, List of Accessions, mention is made of all the material received by the 
Department during the year. In this place, therefore, it is unnecessary to do more 
than refer to the more important accessions. 



188 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

16400. Alcoholic insects (1 vial), from Wytheville, Va. ; received February 1, 1886. 
Tlie three last-mentioucd accessions are from Col. M. McDonald, U. S. Fish 
Commission, and consist mostly of aquatic insects, largely neuropterona 
larvae. All were duly determined and preserved, and a list furnished Colone. 
McDonald. 

17139. Mexican insects, a large collection of Coleoptera, Hemiptera, and Lopidoptera, 
from J. Farrari Perez, naturalist of the Mexican Geographical and Explor- 
ing Commission. This is an important accession, containing more than a 
thousand specimens of the three orders, all mounted and many of them 
named. In conjunction with the insects sent by Professor Dugiis there is 
quite a fair collection of Mexican Coleoptera. 

17221. U. S. Diurnal Lepidoy)tera, comprising many of the rarer species needed in 
the collection, and a collection of European Coleoptera, from J. B. Smith, 
the assistant curator. The European Coleoptera were brought in for the 
exhibition collection, and are sufficient in number to give a fair idea of the 
European fauna. 

17245. Lepidoptera (3 boxes), mostly micros., and mostly from Texas, from A. Bolter, 
172 Van Buren street, Chicago, 111. ; received March 19, 1886. One box 
contained larger, named species, some of them rather rare, while the two 
others contained micros., nnspread and undetermined. 

17.'!>r)6. Belostoma amcricanum, from W. S. Primrose, Raleigh, N. C. ; received April 3, 
1886. During the latter part of March Belostoma americanum appeared in 
unusually large numbers, and flying in great quantities to the electric 
lights, were observed by many different persons and in many instances sent 
to the department. 

17.583. Jmnesia granicollis (6 specimens), from R. D. Nevius, Olympia, Wash. ; received 
May 12, 1886. This insect is said to injure fruit trees by gnawing off buds, 
but no details are given. It is the first appearance of this species as an in- 
jurious insect. 

17628. Lucanus elaplms (1), from Mrs. Richard Carter, Cloverport, Ky. ; received June 
12, 1886. This specimen, it was alleged, was taken from the ^oot-board of a 
bee-hive, where it had posted itself before the opening and was capturing 
the bees as they came out! This habit is so at variance with the known 
habits of this species that confirmation is needed of the facts stated by our 
correspondent. 

There were altogether 103 accessions during the year, which came to 
the department in the ordinary course, a large proportion useless for 
any purpose. In addition to these numbered accessions, many speci- 
mens have been added through the curator and the assistant, and sev- 
eral important collections have been added through the Department of 
Agriculture. First among these latter is the collection of Lepidoptera, 
purchased from Mr. O. Meske, of Albany, N. Y. This collection con- 
tains many types and typical specimens of American insects, and some 
years ago ranked as one of the finest in the United States. 

There are fully 700 species and over 2,000 specimens contained in 
forty-five glass-covered drawers and boxes, and as a whole in very good 
condition. It contains a fair collection of European species also, ob- 
tained in exchange from some of the leading lepidopterists of Grermany. 
There was also jiurchased by the department for the Museum the col- 
lection of the late H. K. Morrison, of Morganton, N. C, containing a 
few Lepidoptera, Diptera, and Ncnroptera, and a very large lot of Cole- 



DEPAETMENT OF INSECTS. 189 

optera — many buiulrcds of species and many thousands of specimens, 
contained in lifty-six large double boxes and forty-live cigar boxes. 
This collection contains a considerable number of species not in the 
other Museum collection, and an abundance of duplicate material valu- 
able for exchange, 

Mr. A. Koebele, collecting for the department in California, has sent 
in thousands of insects of all orders very carefully mounted and con- 
taining a large number of new species. 

The correspondence has been, for the most part, conilned to the neces- 
sities of the routine work, but has necessarily increased with the new 
impetus given to the department. 

A number of insects have been received for determination and study, 
and the following list of determinations furnished, whether through the 
ordinary routine or by direct sendings to the curator or the assistant, 
will show the work in this direction : 

September 29, 1885. Insects of all orders (several thousand speci- 
mens, about 300 species), mounted and determined for Dr. li. W. Shu- 
feldt, Fort Wingate, N. Mex. 

October 23, 1885. Lepidoptera(30 species), for Mr. H. L. Clark, Prov- 
idence, R. I. 

November 10, 1885. Noctuidjie (8 species), for Mr. Jly. Edwards, 
New York City. 

December 18, 1885, Coleoptera {ii'S species), for W. 11. llarrison, 
])ost-oliice department, Ottawa, Ontario. 

December 10, 1885. Lepidoptera (42 species), for W. N. Tallant, 73 
Jefferson avenue, Columbus, Ohio. 

During the months of December and January the naturalists of the 
Mexican Exploring Commission had their collection of insects in the 
rooms of the department, and all facilities for the determination and 
classification of their material that the collections offered were afforded 
them in return for their generous gift to the Museum. A synouymical 
list of ninety species of Lepidoptera with bibliographical references was 
prepared by Mr. Smith and handed Senor Aguillero for incorporation 
in his report on the collections. 

January 30, 1880. Coleoptera (51 species), for Mr. W. W. Hill, Al- 
bany, N. Y. 

February 3, 1880. Lepidoptera (29 species), for Mr. Howard L. Clark, 
Providence, R. I. 

February 12, 1880. Diptera, Hemii)tera, and llymenoptera (insects, 
107 species), for ¥. W. Klages, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

March 8, 1880. Lepidoptera (27 species), for Dr. C. S. McKnight, 
Sarauac Lake, N. Y. 

March 10, 1880. Insects (38 species and many specimens of all or 
ders), for Col. M. McDonald, U. S. Fish Commission. 

Ai)ril 29, 1880. Small series of Pyralidtu, compared with Museum 
material for Dr. George D. Hulst, l>rooklyn, N. Y. 



190 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

June 2, 1886. Coleoptera (25 species), luiLued for George F. Curtiss, 
Boston, Mass. 

Juue 30, 1880. Coleoptera (IG species), lor Charles W. Leiig, New 
York City. 

Juue 30, 1886. Lepidoptera (38 species), for William H. Ashmead, 
Jacksonville, Fla. 

No attempt lias yet been made to carry on a definite system of ex- 
changes, as this can only be done to advantage when once the study 
collection in any order, or more limited group, has been fully re- 
arranged, when our own desiderata and the duplicates we have to spare 
in exchange can be fully ascertained. A great deal of good duplicate 
and exchange material has already been separated, and I hojie to make 
use of it in the near future. 

Prior to the time when I was placed in charge of the department 
a very large amount of alcoholic material of all kinds had accumu- 
lated, some of it ten, fifteen, or twenty years old. Much of it had been 
soaking, uuprotitably, in the Department of Agriculture, but a good 
deal Avas from time to time discovered in the basement of the Smith- 
sonian. The examination of this material and the mounting and pres- 
ervation of the useful or well i^reserved specimens required fully three 
months of steady labor, resulting in a weeding out of useless and cum- 
bersome material, and an arrangement or classification of that part of 
the material which for any reason it was deemed advisable to pre- 
serve. Some of this material was labeled with accession numbers 
\Ahich, so far as could be ascertained, bore no relation to the present 
system of accession records, and were consequently of little value. A 
list has, however, been kept of all material thrown away. It consists 
chiefly of the larger Myriapods and Arachnids many times multiplied 
and unfit for use. The discovery that among this old material there were 
some lyi)ical specimens of scorpions led to a close examination of this 
part of the collection, and a fine series of scorpions has been selected 
and arranged. There are still many undetermined specimens, and it is 
probable that new species will be found among them. Dr. George Marx 
has promised to study and report ui)on them. 

The principal routine work of the year has been on the exhibit col 
lection. The material from the Kew Orleans exposition which, as 
stated in my last year's report, had arrived in fairly good condition, has 
been put in place, as also the exhibit of forest tree insects which I 
prepared for the International Forestry Exhibit at Edinburgh in 1881. 
The additional work done on this exhibit collection is indicated in the 
collections. The most noteworthy are the cases illustrative of the gen- 
eral classification of Arthropods and those devoted to a more full ex- 
position of the classification of the order Lepidoptera. A series of 
fifty-six framed pictures representing various kinds of machinery or 
preparations for destroying insects Avas prepared and placed on exhi- 
bition, and a further series of thirty pictures, representing methods of 



DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS. 191 

silk culture in Jii[)an, ivcei veil from Mr. Hitchcock, wa« also placed ou 
exhibition. 

The exhibit collection was opened to the public in April last. 

On account oi'his iamiliarity with the Macro-Le])idopterii 1 have had 
the assistant devote most of his time, uot otherwise occupied, to the 
arrangement of these insects in the permanent drawers, the progress 
being indicated in the statement of condition. As Entomologist of the 
Department of Agriculture, 1 was also able, in connection with the work 
of that Department, and without expense to the Museum, to secure the 
services of Dr. S. W. A\'illiston, of New Haven, during January and 
February, in arranging a large part of the Diptera and more j'jartic- 
ularly the Syrphidiw. 

In like manner the services of Prof. H. Osborn, of Ames, Iowa, Mere 
obtained, and he reairanged and classilied the collection of Hemiptera 
Heteroptera according to Uhler's new list issued during the year.* 

A large number of exotic Lei)idoptera of the Museum were unnamed, 
and the assistant was directed to make two trips to New York City, 
and there succeeded in identifying most of the species. 

It is noteworthy, as illustrating the rich accumulations nowcomiu'is- 
ing this national collection, that each of these specialists found much 
of infeiest and veiy many new or undescribed species and ev^en new 
genera. Added to the work here indicated must be mentioned my in- 
dividual efforts in the ] eai-raiigiug and i)erfecting of dillerent families 
in s(!verai orders, but more particularly in the Micro-Lepidoptera. My 
health having broken down last spring, I was forced to seek its resto- 
ration in rest from work, and in a trip made to Europe I took witli me 
much uiuletermined matei'ial, especially in Tortricidie, Tineida?, and 
i'yrali(he. Here again the amount of undescribed material proved very 
large, and much of it will be described before long by llagonot, of Paris, 
and Lord Walsinghani, of England, to whouj, lor nmch courteous aid 
already given, I take this opportunity of publicly expressing my 
thanks. 

It is a unitter of sonje difiiculty to make anything like an accurate 
statement of the number of specimens or sj)ecies in the collection — the 
former runs up into the hundreds of thousands, the latter well into the 
tens of thousands. So far as the data are accurately obtainable the 
collectioa consists of the following: 

EXHIBIT COLLECTION. 

Nmiibor of cases on exliDjitioii 9 

AV'jill Hcrecu cases 4 

Wall-scroon framcM for pictiireH 2 

Total 15 

* Check List of the Hemiptora Hoteroptera, of North America, by Philip R. Uhler, 
Brooklyn Eat. Soc, Brooklyn, N. Y., February, 1886. 



192 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUtSEUM, 1886. 



The exbibitiou collection is classified as follows : 

Economic collection. — This is comprised in five cases containing twen- 
ty-four unit boxes (two of the cases being filled with machinery), and 
one wall screen of sixty framed pictures representing insecticide ap- 
pliances. 

A statement of the nature of this collection was given in my last 
annual report, the arrangement showing number of specimens and 
species as follows : 



lujurious to apple 

Iiij urious to enemies of same 

Injurious to pear 

lujurious to peach 

Enemies of same 

Inj urious to orange 

Scale insects — large numbers. 
Enemies to Scale and other insects .. 
Injurious to strawberry 

Enemies 

Injurious to rasjjberry 

Inj urious to currant 

Enemies 

Injurious to gooseberry 

Injurious to melon 

Enemies 

lujurious to cranberry 

Enemies 

lujurious to persimmon 

Enemies 

Injurious to grape 

Enemies.. — 

Injurious to sugar cane 

Injurious to hops 

Enemies 

Injurious to rice 

Enemies 

Injurious to Indian corn 

Enemies 

lujurious to small grain 

Enemies 

lujurious to stored grains 

Injurious to cotton 

Enemies 

Injurious to grass 

Enemies 

Injurious to clover 

Enemies 

Injurious to pea and beau 

Injurious to cabbage and cauliflower 

Enemies 

Injurious to sweet potato , 

Inj urious to potato 

Enemies 

Injurious to tomato 

Enemies 

Injurious to tobacco 

Inj urious to asparagus 

Injurious to onion 

Injurious to stock 

Total 



Speci- 
mens. 



66 
37 

8 
17 

1 
30 

36 

20 

2 

16 

4 

2 

5 

16 

1 

13 

1 

12 

1 

68 

4 

8 

6 

1 

8 

1 

34 

6 

84 

23 

32 

41 

24 

57 

16 

63 

2 

9 

44 

11 

14 

20 

25 

6 

6 

13 

12 

3 

15 



944 



Species. 



45 

10 

9 

t> 

1 

16 

23 

12 

1 

9 

r, 

1 

3 

7 

1 

8 

1 

5 

1 

43 

3 

2 

5 

1 

4 

1 

20 

5 

28 

23 

13 

18 

16 

28 

14 

29 

2 

6 

16 

7 

7 

11 

17 

4 

2 

3 
1 



502 



Samples 
of wOrk. 



DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS. 



193 



The total number of specimens given is somewhat misleading, because 
occasionally, as in the Coccidae, a branch or leaf contains dozens, here 
been counted as one, and so also of a larva, pupa, and imago, or pupa 
and imago which are often counted as one. A group of parasites gre- 
garious on a larva is also often counted as a single specimen. 

In addition there are to almost every species drawings, or figures, 
specially printed from the woodcuts in my reports on the Insects of 
Missouri or in the reports of the Department of Agriculture, which en- 
hance the value of the collection and render it more instructive to those 
interested in agriculture. 

Added to and forming a part of this collection are four unit boxes 
containing samples of forty different insecticide substances, four unit 
boxes containing forty-three different kinds of nozzles for spraying, 
a box containing various kinds of fly papers, and two large cases con- 
taining twenty-five different kinds of pumps, bellows, blowers, etc., for 
applying poisons to plants. 

The collection of forestry insects is included in eight unit boxes, and 
is arranged on a plan similar to that of the ])receding collection, the 
insects affecting each tree being grouped so as to show the manner of 
work. Like that collection, it is also profusely illustrated with figures 
from the reports above mentioned. 

It contains as follows : 



Injurious to- 



Pine 

Evergreen 

Celtis 

Locust 

Aihiuthus 

Tulip tree 

Willow 

Poplar 

Magnolia 

Asli 

Sassafras 

Linden 

Persimmon 

Sweet-gum 

June or service berry 

Wild cherry 

Alder 

Pear or thorn 

Me.squito 

Papier mulberry 

Buuiclia lycioidcs ... 

Oak (galls) 

Oak 

Maple 

Hickory 

Elm 

Total 



Speci- 
mens. 


Species. 


Samples 
of work. 


34 


32 


22 


17 


7 


13 


13 


7 


10 


11 


8 


6 


I 


1 




1 


1 




41 


28 


13 


16 


8 


12 


1 


1 




2 


2 


2 


1 


1 




13 


11 


7 


4 


2 




3 


2 




1 


1 


1 


7 


5 


3 


4 


3 


2 


3 


3 


4 


1 


1 


1 


3 


2 


2 


3 


3 




63 


46 




78 


46 


17 


30 


25 


15 


24 


20 


10 


12 


9 


5 


387 


275 


145 



H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 13 



194 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Galls and pallinsects. — As pertainiug rather more to this portion of 
the coUectiou it is well to mention here a collection of specimens and 
drawings of European galls and gall insects prepared by the late 
Andrew W. Murray and received by the Museum from the Centennial 
Exposition at Philadelphia, containing specimens or drawings of 212 
species, with admirable enlarged diagrams of structure and economy. 

Silk culture. — The exhibit consists of two or really three parts : 

(1) Thirty Japanese pictures, framed on a wall screen showing 
methods or silk culture in Japan, and 17 specimens of the stands, trays, 
and boxes illustrated. 

(2) Two unit boxes containing 7 species and ] 5 specimens of native and 
foreign silk worms, and 215 specimens or samples of silk, from the divis- 
ion of silk culture, Bureau of Entomology, Department of Agriculture. 

(3) Six unit boxes received from Mr. R. Hitchcock, containing 48 
sorts or varieties of cocoons, and silk in various forms, and about 300 
specimens all told. 

Insect architecture. — Two wall screen cases contain 30 specimens of 
insect architecture, mostly the work of Hymenoptera. This collection 
is still very incomplete, and it is intended at some future date to enlarge 
this portion of the exhibit so as to give a fair idea of the variety and 
skill of insects in all branches of building. 

Synoptic collection. — This collection is intended to give to the student 
and general visitor an outline of the classification of insects. Starting 
with a definition of the class, and a brief description of each order, the 
peculiar features only being given, and drawings or specimens illus- 
trating each definition. 

This box contains 62 species and 78 specimens besides the drawings. 

Two boxes are devoted to Lepidoptera, and contain definitions of all 
the families, drawings of venation, and other structural details. They 
contain 02 species and 121 specimens. 

One box is devoted to Hemiptera, and this is still incomplete in the 
section Homoptera. The section Heteroptera contains 2G species and 
130 specimens. It is designed to continue work on this collection and 
to cover all orders in the same way ; but the work is an extremely slow 
one, requiring much time and labor in the preparation of drawings, the 
selection of material, and its proper arrangement. 

Shoio collection. — This contains twenty unit boxes of insects; foreign 
Coleoptera and Lepidoptera, selected to please that portion of the visi- 
tors to the Museum that care only to feast the eye. It contains showy 
butterflies, immense moths, and beetles of bizarre shape and coloring j 
it is separated as follows : 



DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS. 



195 



European Lepidoptera, classified and named, giviuj^ a lair 
idea of the fauna : 

Eight unit boxes containing 

Japanese butterllies and mollis : 

Four unit boxes containing 

Exotic Lei)idoptera, various localities: 

One case, containing 

Brazilian butterflies : 

One case, containing 

Mexican Lepidoptera : 

One case, containing 

South American Lepidoptera : 

One case, containing 1 

European Coleoptera, illustrating the more common species 

Two unit boxes, containing 

Mexican Coleoptera: 

One box, containing 

Central American Coleoptera: 

One box, containing 

Total 



pecies. 


Specimens. 


MTl 


93G 


8t» 


220 


:i4 


66 


no 


96 


ly 


52 


24 


52 


200 


956 


03 


516 


46 


382 


870 


3, 276 



It would thus appear in a suimnarized form that there are on exhibi- 
tion: 



Economic collection.., 

Forestry insects 

Galls and gall insects 

Silk culture 

Insect architecture 

Synoptic collection ... 
Show collection 



Total on exhibition 



Machinery, pumps, bellows, etc 

Poisons 

Framed pictures, not counting those in boxes. 



Species. 



502 
275 
212 
56 
30 
152 
870 



2, 097 



Specimens. 



944 

387 
212 

;{oo 

30 

329 

3, 276 



5,478 



Samjjles 

of 

work. 



270 
145 
212 

300 
30 



957 



95 
40 
90 



In formally donating my private collection, I submitted a year ago, 
at the request of the Assistant Secretary, a statement of the condition 
and extent of the systematic or study collection, which included, be- 
sides my own already alluded to, the collection projx^r of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. This last comprised some five hundred folding 
boxes and one hundred and twenty-three odd boxes, many of them but 
partly filled and duplicating in great measure those in the Kiley collec- 
tion. It also contained a large assortment of slides and alcoholic speci- 
mens accumulated during the past seven years. There were also some 
tweuty-foar hanging glass drawers, prepared by the late F. G. Sanborn 



196 



EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



for the exhibit of the department at the Centeunial Exposition, and 
now much faded and injured by exposure. 

All the fokling boxes have been made since I first took charge of the 
division in 1878, aud after the pattern of my own. Three hundred of 
them contain a tolerable classified collection, chiefly of Coleoptera and 
Lepidoptera, arranged while Professor Comstock was in charge of the 
division. The specimens are, as a rule, in rather poor condition, and 
include comparatively few species not included in the other; indeed 
they may be looked upon as duplicates and have been rarely used in 
the work of the division. The other boxes contained all the more recent 
material collected for, or reared at, the department during the years 
1881-1884, and including the Brazilian collections of Dr. J. C. Branner 
and Mr. Albert Koebele. This material is separated by orders but not 
yet carefully worked over or classified. They also include some few 
purchases from Messrs. H. K. Morrison and William Witttield, the ex- 
otic Coleoptera from the administrators of the Belfrage estate and the 
Burgess collection of Diptera. 

This collection includes many undescribed species in all orders, and 
a rough estimate indicates that there are about 50,000 specimens and 
probably 5,000 species, mostly exotic, not in the Riley collection. If to 
this statement the accessions of the year, as indicated under that 
head, are added, a good idea of the present extent of the national 
collection may be formed. 

The collection of Lepidoptera, so far as rearranged, contains as fol- 
lows : 



Species 
and vari- 
eties. 



Speci- 
mens. 



Ehopalocera .. 

Spliingidae 

Sesiidas* 

Thyridis 

Agaristidje 

SyntomoidiB... 
Pyromorphidse 

CydosiidaB 

Ctenuchidae 

Lithosiidse . 

Arctiidae 

Duplicates 

Total . . . 



395 

62 

4 

2 

4 

7 

4 

3 

7 

10 

(53 



1,243 

144 

10 

6 

12 

23 

21 

8 

23 

35 

246 



561 
75 



1,771 

333 



636 



2, 104 



Not all the material is incorporated here. 



With a view of aiding outside investigators who could not come to 
Washington, the material in the fiimilies Throscidse, Eucnemidse, and 
the genus Chrysobothris in Coleoptei'a, were sent to Dr. George H. 



DEPARTMENT OF INSECTS. 197 

Horn, of Pliiladclpliia, for study and deterniiniitJoi!, and Lis paper ou 
Clirysobotlnis, based ])artly on this material, iias a])i)eared in the Trans. 
Am. Ent. Soc. (Vol. xiu). The Odyneridic were sent to Mr. William 
Couper, Troy, N. Y., for study and detennination, but no report has 
yet been received from him; while some material in Cerambycidie has 
been loaned to Mr. C. W. Leng, and some few dujjlieate butterflies given 
to Mr. William H. Edwards, Ooalburgh, W, Va. 

In response to a request of Prof. L. M. Underwood, of Syracuse, N. 
Y., the Myriapods of the collection were selected out, carefully packed 
in eighty-two bottles and vials, and sent to him for study and determi- 
nation, IS"© report has as yet been made upon these insects. 



REPOPiT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEP.RATES IN 
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE :\\l U\ 



By liiCHARD Rathbun, Curator. 



The total nniiiber of accessious received by this departinent (lining 
tlic past year was 48, of which the most important were contributed by 
the U. S. Fish Commission. The expk)rations of the steamer Albatross, 
elsewhere described in this report, extended from the eastern ed<je of 
tJie Grand Bank of Newfoundland to the Gulf of Mexico, and into 
a depth of 2,731 fathoms, large collections of marine animals having 
been made iu all parts of this region. The collections obtained during 
the summer and early fall months were assorted and partly classified 
at the Wood's tloU ^station of the Commission, and the material sent 
from there to Washington tilled over 1,300 packages of all sizes, many 
containing a large number of species each and hundreds of specimens. 
On the retui-n trip to Washington, in October, the Albatross engaged in 
dredging and tishing olf the Atlantic coast of the Southern States, be- 
tween Cape Hatteras and Savannah, and 190 packages of unassorted 
marine invertebrates were brought directly to the National Museum. 
During the last part of the winter and the spring of 188G the same 
steamer made a combined sounding and dredging voyage to the region 
of the Bahamas, the Gulf Stream off Florida, and the eastern part of 
the Gulf of Mexico, returning with about 400 i)ackages of specimens 
belonging to this department. Twenty of these packages were largo 
tanks and barrels, containing a multitude of choice objects from both 
deep and shallow water. Reports u^jon the zoological results of these 
explorations are now in progress, but it would be impossible, in a few 
w^ords, to describe even the general character of the materials obtained. 

Mr. V. N. Edwards, who is stationed at Wood's HoU, Mass., in the 
employ of the Fish Commission, during the entire year has continued 
to send in valuable collections made during those months when the 
seashore is seldom visited by naturalists. Many interesting specimens 
of fresh- water crustaceans and annelids, representing I'onr distinct river 
basins in the uorthern part of Virginia, have been contributed by Col. 
Marshall McDonald, of the same Commission. Ills collections were 
accompanied by full notes, including temperature observations, afford- 

19'J 



2C)0 REPORT 0^J NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188{). 

iug- iiiii)oitaiit (lata beariii^s,^ i:i)oii tbe distiibulioii of the species. One 
]uiii(lie<l and three j)ackas^es, coiitaiuiug 48 species of Crustacea, col- 
lected maiuly during the southern cruises of the Albatross, have been 
returned by Prof. S. I. Smith, of Yale College, to whom they had been 
sent for study. 

To the Navy Department the Museum is indebted for a large series 
of specimens of deep-sea soundings obtained by the U. S. steamer En 
terprise, Commander A. S. Barker, U. S. Navy, commanding, during a 
voyage from "Wellington, New Zealand, to the United States, through 
the South Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. From Dr. T. H. Streets, U. S. 
Navy, of the Coast Survey steamer CarlisJc Patterson, there has been 
received a fine alcoholic collection of echinoderms, crustaceans, and 
other groups of marine invertebrates, collected mainly in southern 
Alaska 5 and Dr. W. H. Jones, U. S. Navy, has also contributed a small 
collection of the same character from Iquique, Peru. 

The collection made by Capt. M. A. Healy, of the U. S. revenue 
steamer Cortcin, during the summer cruise of 1885 in the Arctic Ocean, 
Bering Sea, and elsewhere on the coast of Alaska, adds many interest- 
ing specimens from an important region, which is also further repre- 
sented by a large series of small crustacean forms from Bering Island, 
Siberia, donated by Mr. N. Grebnitska, through Mr. Leonhard Stcj- 
neger of the National Museum. Mr. James G. Swan, of Port Town- 
send, Wash., has sent a fine assortment of dried hydroids, corallines, 
and barnacles from Cape Flattery, and the Museum of Comparative 
Zoology has added three rare species of crayfishes to our already large 
and carefully i^repared collection of that group. These species are as 
follows: Astacus pallipes Lereb., from Switzerland; Camharus cuhensis 
Erich., from Cuba; and Camharus Putnami Fax., from Kentucky. 

One of the most important additions to the department has been ob- 
tained from the Rev. A. M. Norman, of England, in exchange. It con- 
sists of 2G8 microscopic mountings of the spicules and sections of British 
sponges contained in the collection of Mr. Norman. The number of 
species represented is 189. Mr. Norman states that the mountings were 
made exclusively from specimens determined by the late Dr. Bower- 
bank, and in many instances they are from the type, which is very 
often unique. This collection will prove invaluable to any student who 
may undertake the study of the American species of sponges. 

On June 18, 1885, the curator and his assistants went to Wood's Holl, 
Mass., to take part in the sea-coast exi)lorations of the U. S. Fish Com- 
mission, which were continued until about October 10, 1880. During 
this time work on the collections in Washington was entirely suspended, 
but many fine preparations of marine animals were made for the ex- 
hibition cases of the Museum and for the study series. After leaving 
Wood's Holl, in October, the curator visited the Museum of Comparative 
Zoology, Cambridge, Mass., for the purpose of identifying certain species 
of sea-urchins which could not be determined otherwise, and the col- 



DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEI?KATES. 201 

lection of .specimens of tliat group lias now been placed in perfect order 
up to date. 

Important cbauges have been made during the year in the arrange- 
ment of all the collections in the department, which arc now in better 
condition than ever before, notwithstanding that niucli time was neces- 
sarily occupied in caring lor the new material received. The west hall 
of the Smithsonian Institution, intended for the exhibition of marine 
invertebrates, was used, as during 18S4 and 1885, as a general work-room 
and store-room, but in June last it was permanently opened to the public. 
The display series contained in the wall cases surrounding this hall re- 
mains in the same condition as heretofore, but four additional upright 
cases and four table cases have been supplied, and these are now tempo- 
rarily filled with corals, criuoids, echinoderms, and other showy and in- 
structive forms. All of the dried specimens of the general collection that 
could not be stored under the exhibition cases liave been transferred to 
the northwest gallery of the bird hall, where tbey are mostly contained 
in unit trays piled upon the floor. This gallery will be used Lereafter 
as the main work-room for the examination of the collections of dried 
materials, which are growing rapidly in size and value every year, but 
the lack of suitable cases prevents a permanent and satisfactory ar- 
rangement of the specimens. Temporary wall cases at one end of the 
gallery are still used for storing bottles and jars of alcoholic specimens, 
and a large number of the homeopathic ^■i.a]s are also cared for here. 

The alcoholic collections hitherto contained in the wall cases on the 
southwest floor of the bird hall Lave been transferred to the basement. 

The additional space in the basement allotted to this department for 
the storage of alcoholic specimens has been a great convenience and 
has permitted a satisfactory disposition of the collections, but there 
is little room for expansion, and further accommodations will probably 
be necessary in the course of a year or two. The new quarters consist 
of the western half of the old general storage-room under the main 
part of the building, which has been fitted up with plain shelving, oc- 
cu])ying all available space. The alcoholic collections are now dis- 
tributed as follows : The small room originally assigned to this depart- 
ment contains the identified collections of Crustacea and parts of those 
of other groups, and serves as an alcoholic work-room. The cases in 
the adjoining hall are used for the alcoholic Echini, while theOphiurans 
and star- fishes are stored in the next connecting hall lending to the new 
store-room. The latter is filled mainly with unidentified collections and 
the duplicates. The rearrangement of the alcoholic collections in the 
above order occupied several months, and advantage was taken of the 
general overhauling to renew the alcohol in nearly all the jars and bot- 
tles. The old alcohol was at once redistilled and used again, and new 
alcohol was employed only where full strength was required. 

All of the accessions received during the year have been assorted and 
catalogued, and some of the groups sent away to si)ecialists for study. 



202 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

The fine series of stalked criuoids obtained by the steamer Albatross in 
the Gulf of Mexico during the past three years has beeu transferred 
to large glass jars for safe storage, and every specimen labeled sepa- 
rately. The entire collection of star-fishes contribnled by the Fish 
Commission, and representing the deep-sea explorations of the steam- 
ers Albatross and Fish Half k, has been carefully gone over and the re- 
serve series selected out and properly arranged. Large numbers of 
specimens were dried and many duplicates set aside for distribution and 
exchange. 

Mr. A. H. Baldwin and Miss M. J. Rathbun have acted as assistants 
in this department during the entire year. Mr. Baldwin has been oc- 
cupied mainly with the sorting and cataloguing of collections and with 
the rearrangement of the alcoholic specimens above described. Miss 
Rathbun has assisted the curator more directly in caring for and cata- 
loguing the dried specimens and those contained in homeopathic vials, 
and in preparing work for the Fish Commission, especially iu the line of 
ocean temperature observations. 

During the summer of 1885, while at Wood's Hell, Mass., the curator 
began the experiments with respect to the artificial i^ropagation of lob- 
sters, which were continued with great success during the spring of 
1880 by Capt. H. C. Chester and Mr. John A. Ryder. Acting upon 
information obtained from Norway that the eggs of the lobster could bo 
kept alive and hatched even if removed from the body of the parent, 
several trials were made with the hatching apparatus then in use, al- 
though it was known that the hatching season for the year was over. 
The purpose of these experiments was to ascertain the best methods of 
handling the eggs, in order that there might be as little delay as i)ossi- 
ble in commencing work the following spring. The best results were 
obtained with the McDonald shad-hatching jar, and although consider- 
ble inconvenience was experienced from the amount of sediment and 
iron rust in the water, the eggs were retained in good condition for a 
period of over two months. An account of these experiments is given 
in Vol. VI of the Bulletin of the U. S. Fish Commission. During the 
spring of this year an entirely new style of jar, devised by Captain 
Chester for cod eggs, was used for the lobsters and many thousands of 
eggs were easil^^ hatched. 

The writer has been engaged during the entire year, with the assist- 
ance of Miss Rathbun, in reducing and tabulating for publication the 
surface temperature observations made for the Fish Commission by the 
Light-House Board and the U. S. Signal Service, at about sixty stations 
distributed along the eastern and southern sea-coasts of the United 
States, from Maine to Texas. These observations, it is expected, will 
I)rove of great value iu helping to explain the local movements and 
general migrations of fishes, a study coming within the scope of that 
Commission. Thirty-two graphic charts representing twenty-four sta- 
tions had been prepared up to the close of the year. A separate chart, 



DKrARTMENT OF MAKINE INVEUTKDRATHS. 203 

sliowiii.i;- llic Viuiatioii of temperatuic by tcii-day means for the five, 
years preceding- 18SG, is given for each station, and there are also six 
charts of isothermal lines connecting all the stations. This work will 
be carried on during next year. 

At Wood's Iloll the curator continued his studies of the jinrasitic 
coi)epods of the Atlantic coast, completing and submitting for ixiblica- 
tion a report upon six species, four of which are new to science. All of 
the species are figured more or less in detail. After leaving Wood's 
Iloll he completed the identification of the undetermined species of 
Echini, in the collection of the Museum, for that purpose visiting the 
Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge, Mass., where he was 
given the oi)portunity of making comparisons with the unrivalled col- 
lection of Mr. Alexander Agassiz, by whom personal assistance was 
also kindly rendered. The Echini obtained by the steamer Albatross 
in the region of the Bahama Islands during the spring of 188G were 
also identified, and have been included in a general catalogue of the 
collection of Echini belonging to the National Museum, to be published 
in the Proceedings. Since completing work upon the Echini the cura- 
tor has begun to revise the collection of star-fishes in the same manner, 
and duiing the spring of 18S6 made a complete overhauling of all the 
species collected by the Fish Commission on the Atlantic coast of the 
United States north of Cape Ilatteras. Most of these species had been 
determined by Professor Verrill, but it was found convenient to make 
a selection of the specimens intended for the reserve series, and to dry 
large numbers of specimens in order to reduce the buWi of the alcoholic 
materials. Many specimens of star-fishes from other sources have also 
been identified. 

The study of Fish Commission collections of marine invertebrates 
elsewhere than at the National Museum has been continued by the 
same persons enumerated in the report of last year. Prof. A. J*]. Ver- 
ril, of Yale College, has had general supervision of the collections made 
from Cape Hatteras northward, but has been occupied mainly with the 
Mollusca, Echinodermata, and Anthozoa. He has been assisted spe- 
cially by Miss Katharine J. Bush, who has also reported directly upon 
some portions of the mollusca. Prof. S. I. Smith, of the same college, 
has been charged with the study of the Crustacea, and all collections 
of this group, except a few of the minor divisions, are submitted to him. 
Other collaborators during the year have been Prof. L. A. Lee, of Bow- 
doin College, on the Foraminifera ; Prof. Edwin Linton, of Washington 
and Jefferson College, and Prof. B. F. Koons, of the Storrs Agricult- 
ural School, on the internal parasites of fishes; Mr. James E. Bene- 
dict, of the steamer Alhafro.ss, on the Annelids ; Mr. J. Walter Fewkes, 
of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, on the free Medusai. 

The Hon. Theodore Lyman, of Brookline, Mass., has kindly oft'ered 
to examine and report upon the 0]>hiurans from the western coast of 
America in addition to those collected by the steamer Albatross south 



204 REPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

of Cape Hatteras, ou the eastern coast. The collections from the Pa- 
cific coast of tbe United States and from Alaska and other uortheru 
regions were accordingly sent to liim at the Museum of Comparative 
Zoology, Cambridge, and at the close of the year be bad nearly com- 
pleted bis work upon them. Witb Mr. Lyman's assistance it will be 
possible soon to place this group in as complete order as tbe ecbini. 

EXPLORATIONS. 

Tbe steamer Albatross, Lieut. Commander Z. L. Tanner, U. S. Navy, 
commandiug, continued in service during a large part of tbe year, and 
accomplished very important results for the fisheries and for natural 
history, as well as in matters of special bydrographic interest. The 
permanent naturalists were Mr. James E. Benedict and Mr. Thomas 
Lee, but Mr. Sanderson Smith also accompanied the steamer on all its 
trips during tbe summer and fall, and Mr. Willard Nye, jr., Mr. 0. H. 
Townsend, and Mr. F. Wasbburn participated in tbe spring cruise to 
tbe Bahama region. 

Tbe Albatross left Newport, E. I., June 17, 1885, on its first cruise to 
tbe fishing-grounds oft" the coast of tbe maritime provinces. Tbe myth- 
ical Hope Bank of the fishermen, said to be located in about latitude 
41° N., longitude 04° W., was the first objective point, and considerable 
time was spent in making soundings in its supposed position. The 
average depths observed were about 1,900 or 2,000 fathoms, with no 
indications of shoal water. Farther to the eastward several reported 
dangers, such as Watson's, Hamilton's, Daraith's, and Akett's, lo- 
cated between latitudes 40° and 41° N., and longitude about 55° W., 
were also investigated without obtaining other than very deep sound- 
ings. From this point tbe Albatross steamed to tbe southern j^art of 
the Grand Bank of Newfoundland, where dredging and fishing were 
begun. A bne of twenty-nine stations was run along tbe eastern side 
of tbe bank, terminating near the Vifgiu Eocks. Tbe depths ranged 
from 33 to 826 fathoms, and tbe work covered all characters of bottom 
occurring in that region. After spending a few days in tbe harbor of 
St. John's, tlie steamer started westward on July 2, making four dredg- 
ings during the first day out between the southeastern coast of New- 
foundland and the Grand Bank, in depths of 86 to 89 fathoms. Thence 
the cruise extended over Green and St. Peter's Banks, where the depths 
were all less than 36 fathoms, to the channel between St. Peter's and 
Banquereau, in depths of 114 to 265 fathoms, and the eastern edge of 
Banquereau, in depths of 33 to 39 fathoms. 

Misaino Bank, off Nova Scotia, was next visited, and a line of dredg- 
ing and fishing stations was made across it from east to west. This 
shoal water had been previously regarded by American fishermen as 
comparatively barren, but tbe investigations of tbe Albatross showed 
it to be an important feeding-ground for cod, large numbers of which 
were captured with book and line. These explorations were continued 



DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTEBRATES. 205 

from Misaiue Bank to Middle Groun«l, on the uorthcni side of Sable 
Island Bank, and thence to Halifax. From the latter place the steamer 
returned to Wood's Holl, Mass., by way of Le Have Bank and the deep 
water off the eastern and southeastern borders of George's Bank, many 
dredgings being made in depths of 52 to 1,234 fathoms. During this 
cruise, which lasted from June 17 to July Jo, one hundred and nine 
hauls (stations 2427 to 2535) were made with the dredge and beaui 
trawl, and fishing was actively engaged in wherever the depths gave 
promise of good results. 

During the remainder of the summer the Albatross was employed off 
the coast of southern New England and Long Island, going to the east- 
ward as far as longitude 05° 08' AV,, the most distant station being 
located in latitude 37° 23' X., longitude 68° 08' W., or about 240 miles 
southeast of Martha's Vineyard, where a depth of 2,731 fathoms was 
obtained. Fifty-six stations (2536 to 2591), with depths of 18 to 2,731 
fathoms were made, with very important biological and physical results. 
On the return trip to Washington, in October, explorations were car- 
ried on off the coasts of North and South Carolina, between Capes Hat- 
teras and Romaiu, thirty-seven hauls (2592 to 2628) being taken in 
depths of 9 to 528 fathoms. 

The spring explorations of the Albatross in the region of the Bahama 
Islands began the last part of February and terminated early in May. 
They were conducted in the combined interests of the U. S. Hydro- 
graphic Office and the Fish Commission, but consisted mainly of deep- 
sea soundings for the benefit of the former service. Dredgings were 
made in the so-called "Tongue of Ocean," in some parts of which the 
depths exceed 1,000 fathoms, with unexpected results, the bottom nearly 
everywhere being composed of coral mud, utterly barren of life, and 
therefore of little biological interest ; but many valuable specimens 
were obtained from the shallow waters among the reefs and islands. 
During a trip to Key West for the purpose of coaling, a few hauls were 
made off' Havana and in the Straits of Florida, off" the northeastern part 
of the Florida Reefs. On the homeward trip a line of dredgings was 
also carried northward from Little Bahama Bank 'to Cape Fear, North 
Carolina. During this cruise fifty-one dredgings were made in depths 
of 30 to 1,109 fathoms (stations 2629 to 2679). 

The total number of dredging stations made by the steamer Albatross 
during the year was 253, being designated by serial numbers 2427 to 
2679, inclusive. Yery large collections were obtained in all branches 
of marine zoology, the study of which will be of great scientific and 
practical interest. The area covered extends from the eastern edge of 
the Grand Bank of Newfoundland to the Gulf of Mexico, and the depths 
explored range from shallow water to 2,731 fathoms. An account of 
the collections and of the work done upon them is given elsewhere. 

The marine station of the Fish Commission at Wood's Holl, Mass., 
was occupied as the headquarters of explorations from about June 18 



206 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1«86. 

until iibout 0(;tol)er 10, 1885. l^rofessor Baiid, the Comini.s8ion«r of 
Eisbevies, was present during the entire season and retained general 
supervision of the work. Prof. A. E. Verrill was in charge of the labo- 
ratory during the time he was able to be in Wood's Holl, this duty devolv- 
ing upon the curator during his absence. Many members of the perma- 
nent staff of the Commission and ISTational Museum were in attendance. 
Prof. G. Brown Goode and Dr. T. H. Beau spent several weeks investi- 
gating the fishes brought in by the Albatross^ and were assisted by Mr. 
Peter Parker, jr. Dr. J. H. Kidder, chemist and physicist, and Mr. 
John A. Eyder, embryologist, were also present, and the curator was 
accompanied by his two assistants, Mr. A. H. Baldwin and Miss M. J. 
Rathbun. 

The remainder of the party was composed as follows : Prof. A. E. 
Verrill, of Yale College, assisted by Miss K. J. Bush and Miss C. E. 
Bush ; Prof. S. I. Smith, of Yale College; Mr. Sanderson Smith, of the 
American Museum of I^atural History, New York ; Prof. Leslie A. Lee, 
of Bowdoiu College, Maine ; Prof. Edwin Linton, of Washington and 
Jefferson College, Pennsylvania ; Prof. B. F. Koons, of the Storrs Agri- 
cultural School, Connecticut ; and Mr. J. H. Blake, of Cambridge, Mass., 
as artist. Prof. William Libbey, of Princeton College, was present 
during several weeks as an independent worker. 

The following institutions have been supplied with sets of duplicate 
specimens belonging to the regular series described in previous re- 
ports. The total number of species distributed was about 200, the num- 
ber of specimens about 18,000. 

Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa. ; Centenary Female College, 
Cleveland, Tenn. ; Board of Education, South Pueblo, Colo. ; Amity 
College, College Springs, Iowa ; The public schools, Moline, 111. ; Se- 
dalia Natural History Society, Sedalia, Mo. ; Geneva Public School, 
Lake Geneva, Wis.; Pennsylvania Institution for the Instruction of the 
Blind, Philadelphia, Pa.; Elkhorn High School, Elkhorn, Wis. ; High 
School, Weeping Water, Nebr. ; Delphi High School, Delphi, Ind. ; El- 
gin Scientific Society, Elgin, 111. ; Friends' Central School, Philadelphia, 
Pa. ; Ogontz School, Ogontz, Pa. ; Crown Point Public School Museum, 
Crown Point, Ind. ; Dickinson Seminary, Williamsport, Pa. ; Lake View 
High School, Lake View, 111.; Allegheny College, Meadville, Pa.; 
Tuft's College, Medford, Mass.; Bethany Normal Institute, Lindsborg, 
Kans. ; Board of Education, Naperville, 111. ; Augustaua College, Eock 
Island, 111. ; Morristown Seminary and Normal Institute, Morristown, 
Tenn. ; Sedalia University, Sedalia, Mo. ; Minnesota Academy of Sci- 
ences, Minneapolis, Minn. ; High School, Lafayette, Ind. ; Doane Col- 
lege, Crete, Nebr. ; Indiana State Normal School, Terre Haute, Ind. ; 
Society of Natural History, St. John, New Brunswick ; Trinity Medical 
School, Toronto, Canada; Mexican Exploring Commission, Mexico. 

Special sets of duplicates, containing from eleven to forty-five species 



DEPARTMENT OF MARINE INVERTE15RATES. 



207 



each, were sent out in exchan.n'e to the followiiij;' inslitntioiis mid indi- 
viduals : 

TlieMnseuin of Coiiipar-iitivc Zoology, Caiiibridj^e, Mass, ; The Ainer- 
icau Museum of Natural History, New York City ; The IMinnesota 
Aeadeniy oi' Natural Sciences, Minneapolis, Minn. ; Tuft's CoHe^tfe, I\led- 
ford, Mass. ; Dr. E. C. Black, Wheatland, Ind. ; Mrs. John D. Swan, 
Antwerp, N. Y. ; Prof. A. ])ugcs, (xuanajuato, Mexico. 

STATKMENT OF KNTUIKS IX TIM.; UKC0IU)-]!O(>K,S KKOM .IUL\' 1, 1885, TO JULY 1, 

188(5. 



Name of group. 



Crnstacciius 

Woriris 

Tunicatc'8 and Bi\yozoa. 
Kadiate.s 

Sponges ami Protozoans 

Total 



Ei) tries to 
July 1, 188.5. 



10, 127 
1,114 

545 

11,030 

4,000 



Entries to 
July 1, 1886. 



26, 8IG 



11,010 

1, 352 

829 

14, 771 

5, 328 



33, 8',)0 



Entrie.s 

during the 

year. 



I,4i3 

238 

284 

3,741 

1,328 



7, 074 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY IN THE 

THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 3(1, 18%'. 



By Frederick W. True, Acting Curator. 



This department, which at present is in reality a department of com- 
l)arative osteology, can scarcely be considered as having an independ- 
ent existence. Its collections'are based on material formerly assigned 
to the fonr <lepartments wliich have to do with vertebrate animals, and 
it is dependent npon tlie latter for its accessions. It has been the cus- 
tom as regards important vertebrates received in the flesh to separate 
the skeleton entirely from the skin, and to prepare the former for this 
de])iirtment, the skull and leg bone being replaced by the taxidermist 
by wooden models. Specimens in alcohol are to a certain extent treated 
in the same manner. A list of accessions to this department, therefore, 
would be largely a repetition of the lists submitted by the four verte- 
brate dei)artmeuts. 

Since it has been established, however, a certain amount of material 
has found its way into the department directly. The more important 
of these accessions will be mentioned. 

Important aid toward building up a collection of domestic animals 
has been received from the authorities of the Washington Board of 
Health, who gave us })ermission to select from the dog pound such 
dogs as were desired for our series. These animals, of course, liave no 
pedigree and are judged by the points they exhibit. It will probably 
be found best in the end to replace them as far as possible by others 
whose pedigree is known, though some of them are very fine si)ecimens 
of the races they represent. The following breeds have been obtained 
from the pound during the year. 

Newfoundland doj;. Scotch terrier. 

Skye terrier. Scotch and Skye terrier (cross). 

r)lack and tan terrier. Bull dog. 

Bull terrier. Italian greyhound. 

Coach dog. 

Several thoroughbred dogs, with ])edigrees, have been received, nota- 
bly two collies, " Nesta," from JI. T. Leeper, esq., East Bethlehem, Pa., 
and "Cli|)setta," from James Watson, esq., of the same town. A coach 
dog was received from Lewis Ilijikins, esq., and an Irish setter from 
H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 14 209 



210 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1880. 

James T. Walker, esq. In exchange for specimens from the Museum, 
Prof. Dr. Alf. Nebriug, of Berlin, sent the skeleton of a dachshund and 
the skull of a Syrian street dog. Dr. E. Bessels presented the skeleton 
of a greyhound. 

LiLhograi)hic jiictures of General Grant's Arabian horses were pre- 
sented by Mr. Eandolph Huntington, of Eochester, N. Y. 

Among the important specimens of aquatic mammals, in addition to 
those referred in the report on the Department of Mammals (pp. 147- 
14S) may be mentioned the skull of Steller's sea-lion, Ewnetopias Stel- 
leri, a skull of the Pacific walrus, and a skeleton of the sea-otter pre- 
sented by Dr. L. Stejneger. The curator procured at Hatteras, through 
the kindness of Col. John Wainwright, of the Wilmington Oil and 
Leather Company, a number of foetal skulls of the bottlenosed dolphin, 
Tursiops tursio. 

Among terrestrial mammals may be mentioned the skeleton of an 
European badger, Meles taxus, prepared from a fresh specimen received 
without indication of the donor. A skeleton of Cynopithecus niger was 
prepared from a fresh specimen received from Dr. W. A. Conklin. 

A valuable series of skeletons of birds of the North Pacific was 
collected by Charles H. Townsend, esq. A collection of skeletons of 
Florida species was presented by Dr. B. H. Warner. 

The most important fishes received during the year were Tetrapturiis 
albidus, Cori/phctua punctulata., and Caranx pisiiuetas, the first from 
Josei)h Wharton, esq., and the remaining two from the U. S. Pish 
Commission. 

ISTo new lines of work have entered upon since the close of the last 
fiscal year, but we have occupied ourselves with the expansion and per- 
fection of the exhibition series and the better arrangement of the du- 
plicate njaterial. Each of the different series mentioned in the i^revious 
report — the morphological series, the systematic series, and the series 
illustrating the races of domestic animals — has received some impor- 
tant addition from the hands of the preparators. The exhibition cases, 
though not entirely full, are all occupied by a greater or less number of 
specimens of representative species. The number of exhibition and sto- 
j"age cases in the hall June 30, 18SG, was as follows : 

Unit pyramidal table-cases 8 

Unit square table-cases 10 

One-half unit pyramidal table-cases 6 

Oue-lialf unit square table-cases 2 

• Door-screen cases 1 

Unit storage cases 18 

One-half unit storage cases 8 

Movable cases 7 

Statiouary wall-case (exhibition) 1 

Stationary' wall-case (storage) 1 

Total exhibition cases 28 

Total storage cases 26 



DEPARTMENT OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. 211 

This liuniber of cases is practically the same as that .uiven hist year. 
The two cases styled "experimental anatomical" and " alcove " were 
removed becanse not immediately usefnl. 

The present is a somewhat inopportnne time for a report upon the 
additions to the exhibition series, for the reason that the osteological 
preparators have been largely occupied in roughing out and cleaning 
material rather than in mounting it for exhibition. Keference to the 
statistics in the report of the osteological preparator will show that a 
large number of specimens were cleaned during the year, aiul the fol- 
lowing statistics of the number put on exhibition should not, therefore, 
be taken as representing the entire work of the preparators. During 
the coming year the proportion of specimens respectively cleaned and 
mounted will probably be reversed. 

The number of skeletons, skulls, and other pieces placed on exhibi- 
tion during the year is as follows : 

SKELKTONS. 

Mammals 16 

Birds 15 

Kcptiles iiucl batracliians 15 

Fishes 12 

Total 58 

SKULLS. 

Mammals 5 

Birds 1) 

Total 14 

Morphological series : 

Number of pieces 68 

Domestic animals : 

Skeletons (dogs) '-i 

Among the more important mammals added were the skeletons of a 
tiger, a black-tailed deer, and a piked whale ; skulls of a hipijopotamus 
and killer whale. Among the birds may be mentioned the skeletons of 
Apteryx mistralis, Rhea amerk'an/f, and the Crested Auk. The skeleton 
of a large python is interesting both as representing the larger serpents 
and as an uiuisually fine osteological preparation. 

In August the cases were rearranged with reference to the classifica- 
tion of their contents and with the view of obtaining better circulation 
aisles. The present grouping (with the cases now in use) is very satis- 
factory, but has the disadvantage of breaking the long vistas which are 
preserved elsewhere in the building. If a change be made for the pur- 
l)ose of restoring the vistas a number of low, narrow cases of a style 
not hitherto brought into requisition will be needed. 

New pedestals for the whale skulls and other specimens not under 
cover were completed in September. They add much to the appearance 
of the hall. A considerable number of pictures of skeletons and species 
not in the collections were framed and placed on exhibition during the 
year, and with the elephant tusks, antlers, and sawlisU saws serve to 
adoru the walls. 



212 



EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886 



The study series has received constant additions from the Prepara- 
tor's laboratory. The statistics of this work will be found in the Prep- 
arator'a rei)ort (p. .) 

The card catalogue of the mammals is practically completed, and only 
a small number of unidentified specimens still remain to be added. Cat- 
alogues of the birds, reptiles, batrachians, and fishes have not been un- 
dertaken. They can hardly be made with the present limited clerical 
aid. 

Very few specimens have been distributed during the year. Skulls 
of the Pacific walrus and mountain sheep were sent to George A. Board- 
man, esq., as a i>artial return for nuuierous specimens presented to the 
Museum. Dr. L. Stejueger received his quota (as collector) of the 
specimens obtained by him in the Bering Islands and Kamtschatka. 
Skeletons of a monkey, Gercopithecus rufoviridis, and a python. Python 
molurus, were forwarded to Dr. A. K. 0. Selwyu, directer of the Geo- 
logical Survey of Canada, in return for invertebrate fossils presented to 
the Museum. 

The only specimens loaned for study were two skulls of Putorius 
nigripes, which went to Dr. C. H. Merriman, and a skull of Spermophilus 
tereticaudus, which was examined by Dr. J. A. Allen. 

The entire collection being accessible at the close of the past year, 
it was deemed best to replace the estimates of the number of specimens 
in the collection by statistics based on actual count. The figures may be 
relied upon as representing the actual number of osteological species in 
the department June 30, 1886. 

Skeletons. Skulls. 



Mammals 814 

Birds 447 

Reptiles aud batrachians '201 

Fishes 525 



Tota. - 1,987 



Mammals 4,594 

Birds 1,7G0 

Reptiles and batrachians 74 

Fishes 153 



Total 6,581 



Birds' sterna 1,519 

Antlers 89 

Casts of brains ^4 

The exhibition series comi)rised the following number of specimens 
of each class : 



Skeletons. 

Mammals 

Birds 

Reptiles aud batrachians 
Fishes 



Total 



165 
24 
25 
26 

240 



Skulls. 

Mammals 

Birds 

Reptiles and batrachians . 
Fishes 



71 

16 



Total 



89 



Pieces in morphological series 55 

Teeth (mastodon, etc. ) 10 

Antlers (pairs) 9 

Photographs, engravings, etc 11 



DEPARTMENT OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. 213 

All these specimens are included in tlie statistics of the entire col- 
lection previously given. 

For two years past the exhibition series of the Departments of Mam- 
mals and Comparative Anatomy, occupying one-eighth the exhibition 
space of the Museum Building, have been prepared, mounted, classified, 
arranged and labeled by six persons only. These are the curator of 
mammals and one assistant, the chief taxidermist and one assistant, 
the osteological preparator and one assistant. When it is taken into 
consideration that to mount properly an animal like a tiger or a deer, 
or to prepare and mount the skeleton of a whale, a serpent, or a large 
fish occupied the attention of one person for one or more weeks, it will 
be conceded that with the present force of preparators the enlargement 
of the exhibition series can not be very rapid. On the other hand, 
when it is understood that every specimen (and as two hundred have 
been received in a single day) has to be entered in the register, with 
name, locality name of donor and collector, etc., and also in the card 
catalogue, and be furnished with a number stamped in tin or wood, it 
will be admitted that a single clerk must necessarily find himself un- 
able to attend to the task of examining, arranging, rebottling, and 
labeling material already accumulated. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEP.RATE FOSSILS (PALEO- 
ZOIC) IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOK THE YEAH, ENDING 
JUNE ;}l), 1881}. 



By C. D. Walcott, Honorary Curator. 



The most important addition is the collection of fossils used in the 
stndy of the fannas of the JNliddle Cambrian formations of the United 
States, from the U. S. Geological Snrvey. Many of the specimens are 
types, and 250 are fignred on the plates accompanying Bnlletin 30 of 
the U. S. Geological Survey. 

The list of the species in this collection is here presented :* 

Ace. No. Specimons. 

17-147. Archaocyathus allantlcHH, Billiiig.s '^ 

hilUiKjai, Walcott 1 

sp. ? ii 

Ethmophijllumprofandiirn, Billings 4 

rensselwricum , Ford 6 

rarum, Ford I 

whitneyi, Meek 10 

Leptomitus ziiteli, Walcott f> 

rrotospongia fcnestratu, Salter 9 

Strephochetus ? sp. ? 16 

Spougo ? 1 

Oolitic limestone 1 

PliyUofjraphtus ? simplex, 'Emmona <> 

Eocijstites VI Ungidactijlus, Walcott 23 

Eocy stiles 1 ^^ 

Linfjulella clla, H. & W 117 

cwlata, Hall, sp '^'i 

? sp. (Perhaps yonng of L. calaia) 14 

Kutorgina labradorica, Billings 44 

pannula, White (sp.) 17 

prospccteiisis, Walcott 17 

ciufiulala, Billings 112 

cingulata ?? 1 

'. — 1 

Acrotreta gemma, Billings 21? 

Acrothele Huhsidnn, White 77 

Oholella crassa, Hall, sp. (two casts) 43 

gemma, Billings 7 

nitida, Ford ?? 4 

sp.? ^ 

? 1 



* Received from the U. S. Geological Snrvey, through Charles D. Walcott, in charge 

Division of Paleozoic Invert(ibrate Paleontology. 

215 



216 . REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Ace. No. Specimens. 

17447. Orthis highlandensin, Walcott 17 

Orthisina feneslrata, Billings 46 

orientalifi, Whitfield 3 

transversa, Walcott 13 

sp. ? 6 

Camerella ? antiquata, Billiugs ._ 1 

Stcnolhcca elongata, Walcott 6 

riigosa, Hall, sp 23 

u.sp 3 

Scenella conula, Walcott 2 

reticulata, Billings (casts).. 6 

retusa, Ford 1 

varians, Walcott 7 

Platyceras primannim, Billings 3 

Fordilla Troyensis, Barrande 2.5 

Salterella 2>ulchella, Billiugs 56 

HijoUthcs blUhujsi, Walcott 95 

co7nmtinis var. cmnionsi. Ford 14 

communis, Billings 10 

americanus, Billings 44 

princeps, Billiugs 2 

impar, Ford 14 

sp.? 11 

sp.? 2 

? 2 

HyoUthellus rnicans, Billiugs 61 

Microdiscus lubatas, Hall, sp 38 

parkeri, Walcott 10 

siicciosus, Ford 30 

Mesonacis vermontana, HtxU, sp. (nine casts) 13 

Protocaris marshi, Walcott 2 

Leperditia argenta, Walcott 2 

? 4 

Microdiscus sp. ? 1 

Agnostus inter sir ictus, White 15 

Olenellus iddingsi, Walcott (t^o casts). .- 15 

gilberti, Meek (four casts) 136 

asaphoides, Emmons 39 

thompsoiii, Hall (five casts) 49 

Bathynotus holopyga. Hall (two casts) 11 

Frotypns soiectus, Billings (sp. ) 59 

hitchcocki, Whitfield (sp. ) (casts) 4 

Solenopleura nana, Ford 6 

Anomocare parvum, Walcott 1 

OrycTocephalus primus, Walcott 13 

Crcpicephalus liliana, Walcott 48 

augusfa, Walcott - 72 

Ptyclwparia quadrans, H. & W. (sp) 25 

quadrans, H. & W. (sp) - 6 

piochensis, Walcott .,~, 68 

adamsi, Walcott (two casts) 78 

tcucer, Billings 7 

vitZca^JMS, Billings (sp.) (one cast) 8 

kingi, Meek (sp. ) 8 

<nfeteate, Emmons (sp.) (casts) 2 



DEPARTMENT" OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 217 

Aec. No. Specimens. 

17447. rti/ch oparia nrospectensis, Walcott 1 

subcoronata, H. & W. (sp. ) 6 

houseiisis, Walcott 1 

mher, Billings (casts) 7 



sp. 



1 



Olenoides levis, Walcott 24 

viarconi, Whitfii'ld- (three casts) 13 

waltsatclicnsis, H. & W. (one cast) 7 

quadricc])s, H. & W 23 

expawiHH, Walcott • 1 

spinosus, Walcott 2 

flariricaudus, Whitfield 1 

nevadeiisis, Meek (,sp.) 1 

typicalis, Walcott (three casts) 43 

Bathyuriscus jyyoductus, H. &W. (sp.) 122 

lioweIJi, Walcott (one cast) 12 

Asaph iscus wheeleri, Meek (one cast) 49 

Forty genera, 100 species, 1 variety, and 2,163 specimens. 

Other accessions of iuiportauce are : 

Ace. No. Speciniena. 

]()783. An important accession of 48 species of Cambrian fossils obtained of 
Dr. G. Lindstrom, of Stockholm, Sweden, by exchange, viz: 

Anomocare excavafiim, Angelin 2 

aculeatum, Ang 1 

acuminatum, Ang 2 

difforme, Ang 4 

limhat urn, Aug 4 

Elyx laticeps, Ang 3 

Eurycare augnstatum, Ang 1 

camuricorne, Ang 1 

Acerocare ecorne, Ang 1 

DoUchonu'topus succicus, Ang 6 

Agnoshis aciiJeatus, Ang 1 

pisiformis, Linnrs 2 

fallax, Linnrs ^> 

fissuSf Lindgr 5 

glandiformis, Ang 4 

punctuostis, Ang 2 

lievigatus, Dal ni 3 

hrevifrons, Ang 1 

reticulatus, Ang 1 

afavus, Tull 2 

gihhux, Linnrs 3 

Jnndgreni, Tull 1 

parvifrons, Linnis 1 

OlenuH truncal un, Briinn 5 

gibbosus, Wahl 4 

raraboUna spinulosa, Ang 2 

Leptoplastus stcnotus, Ang 2 

Sphairoplitlialmus alatus, Ang 2 

Peltura scarahwoidcs, Wahl , C> 

Faradoxides alandicus, Sjorg T) 

loreni, Ang 4 

tcs>iini, Linnrs. (cast) 1 



218 REPORT ON lSTATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Ace. No. Specimens. 

16783. SolcnopleHra hrachymetopa, Aug 4 

holometopa, Aug 5 

canaliciilala, Aug 5 

Ellipsocephalus })oJ}/lomus, Liuurs 4 

Leperditia primordialis, Liunrs 1 

Orlhis lenticularis, Wahl ;} 

exporreeta, Liunrs .• 2 

Lingulella nathorsti, Linurs 2 

davisi, McCoy 3 

Acrothele coriacea, Liuurs . . , .^> 

Obolus monillfer, Liuurs 2 

Eophyton Unneanum, Torell 2 

Aroncolites spiralis, Torell 1 

Cruziana dispar, Liuurs 2 

Medusites lindstromi, Liunrs 5 

favosus, Nath 1 

Tweuty-three genera, 48 species, and 134 specimens. 

The above collection will be of service to students of the Cambrian 
faunas, as itaifords the means of comparison between the Swedish and 
American faunas. 

Another important accession is that given by Mr. G. F. Matthew, 
of St. John, New Brunswick. It adds materially to the collection of 
American Cambrian fossils, viz: 

Ace. No. Specimeus. 

1G749. Cambrian Fossils from tbo St. John group. From G. F. Mattbew, 
St. John, New Brunswick : 

Eocystites primannis, Billings 1 

Acrothele matthewi, Hartt 1 

Linnarsso)iial miser, Billings 8 

Orfhis hiUingsi, Hartt 4 

Agnostiis vir, Matthew 3 

Microdiscus dawsoni, Hartt.. . 1 

Paradoxides eteminicns, Matthew 10 

cieminiciis, var. suricoides, Matthew 1 

Conocoryphe haileyi, Hartt i 4 

haileyi, var. arcuata, Matt 3 

{Bailiella) elegans, Hartt 2 

(BaUieUa) wah-otti. Matt 1 

Ctenflccphalus (llarteUa) matthewi, Hartt 9 

Ptychoparia orcstes, Hattt 1 

orestes, var. Thyrsites, Hartt 1 

ouangondiana, Hartt 1 

ouangoinliana, var. aurora, Wt 1 

rohhi, Hartt 1 

Ten genera, 14 species, 4 varieties, and 53 specimeus. 
Ace. No. 

17153. Exchange collection, received from Mr. G. F. Matthew, St. John, 
New Brunswick, and containing 1) genera, 11 species, aiul 
3 varieties, as follows : 

Eocoryne gem in am, Matthew 1 

Lingulella linguloidcs, Matthew 2 

Acrotrela (?) gulielmi, Matthew (dorsal ) 1 

Kutorgina latourensis. Matt 2 



DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 219 

Ace. No. Specimens. 

17153. IHjjIothtca caiidata, Matt, (veutral face) 1 

caudata, Matt, (dorsal face) 1 

acadica, var. scricea, Matt 4 

Stenotheca acadica, Hartt 1 

Jfjiiostns tesscUus, Matt, (head-shield) '-J 

tessclhts, Matt. ( pygidi uui) - 2 

acadiciis, var. dcclicls, ]Matt. (pygidi uni ) 1 

acutiloiufi, Matt, (head-shield) 1 

acutilobus, Matt, (pygidium) 1 

vir, var. conciiinus, Matt, (head-shield ) 2 

vir,YiiT. concinuus, Matt, (pygidium) 2 

Microdiscns pulchellns, Hartt (head) 3 

jnilchellus, Hartt (pygidium) 3 

Paradoxides abenacus, Matt, (pygidium) 1 

(fragments of free cheeks) 2 

(fragmeuts of head-shield) 7 

(fragments of pleura) 3 

(hypostoma and doublure) 4 

43 
Arc. No. 

17132. Collection of Lower Cambrian fossils from Cornell University, containing 
11 genera, 17 species, and 1 variety, as follows: 

Eocystitcs primoevns, Billings (two casts) 6 

Lin/juleUa linyuloides, Matthew 2 

Linnarsson ia transversa, Hartt, sp 7 

Orthls billingsi, Hartt (two casts) 8 

Stenotheca acadica, Hartt, sp. ( Hartiia ? matthewi ?) 3 

acadica, Hartt 1 

Agnostus acadicus, Hartt 4 

Hyolithes danianus, Matthew 3 

Microdiscus pulchellus, Hartt 10 

Paradoxides eteminicns, Matthew (two casts) 6 

ConocorypUe matthewi, Hartt ^ 4 

matthewi, Hartt, sp 6 

eZcr/aMS, Hartt, sp. (two casts) 3 

( Bailiella) haileyi, Hartt, sp 7 

Ptychoparia robbi, Hartt, 8i> 5 

orestes, Hartt, sp 5 

tener, Hartt, ep. (two casts) 3 

ouaiKjondiaita, Hartt 5 

ouangondiana,\aT. aurora, HsLTtt 2 

The specimens included in accessions 1G749, 17132, and 17153 are of 
value to the Museum collections owing to tbeir being duplicates from the 
collections of the original investigatorsof the fauna of the St. John group. 

Ace. No. Specimens. 

17230. From C. L. Webster, State University, Iowa City, Iowa: 
Devonian fossils: 

Pachyphyllum woodmani, White 4 

1 

Caunopora planulata, Ilall r» 

Stromatopora ( Canostroma) incrustans, H. &W 2 

Zaphrentis solida, II. & W 4.'> 

A Iveolites If' 



220 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188B. 

-Ace. No.- Specimens. 

1723U. Fistulipom occidens, II. & W 12 

Cladopora ? 2 

sp? 2 

Criuoid stems 16 

Acerndaria ineqnalis, H. »& W 1 

Strojjhodonla ai cuata, Hall 8 

reversa, Hall 10 

canace, H. & W 3 

calvini. Miller? 4 

Orthis impressa, Hall 25 

Streptorhynchus chemungensis, Courad 1 

Productus hallanus, Walcott 3 

Spirifera cyrtina'formis, H. &W 1 

disjtincta, So werby 21 

hungerfordi, Hall 27 

orestes, H. &W 14 

Atrypa retimilaris, Liua 35 

aspera, Hall IG 

Cryptonella calvini, H. i&W 5 

Platjjostoma 2 

Loxonema sp? 3 

Bellerophon 11 

Pleurotomaria sp? 57 

Natico2)sis glgantea, Hall 26 

Twenty genera, 30 species, aud 379 specimeus. 

The collection from Mr. Webster contains many fine specimens and 
is a desirable accession. 

Ace. No. 

17342. From H. C. Powers, Beloit, Wis. : 

Trenton fossils: Speeimens. 

Bnihotrephis succulens, Hall 5 

Streptelasma corniculum, Hall 16 

Orlhis tricenaria, Conrad 9 

subquadrata, Conrad 18 

Streptorhynchus deflectus, Hall 8 

flUtextus, Hall 8 

Strophomena incrassata, Hall 13 

Phynchospira quadripUcata, Miller 17 

CamereUal 55 

Cypricardites nicta, Hall 9 

ventricosus, Hall 6 

rotundatus, Hall l'^^ 

Amhonychia lamcllosa, Hall 5 

TclUnomya ventricosa, Hall 2 

Modiolopsis superha, Hall 1 

Pterotheca attenuata, Hall 5 

HyoUthes haconi, Whitfield 6 

Maclurea higsbyi, Hall 7 

Bucania expaiisa, Hall 2 

buelli, Whitfield 5 

Bellerophon tvisconsensis, Whitfield 9 

bilobatus, Sowerbv 12 



DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 221 

Ace. Xo. SpceiiiieiiH. 

ITSi'i. Troclioncma hcccJicri, Whitfield (j 

bcloitensis, Whitlield , 11 

Euphisloma Jvnticularc, Salter 7 

iKisoii i, Hall 4 

rieiirotonafia suhcoHwa, Hall 8 

Holopea ? n . si> 1 

Subiilites eloiKjatus, Conrad 8 

Murchisoit hi (jracUis, Hall (I 

trkarinata. Hall 8 

IteUctcras, Salter 11 

Gonioccras occidtn talis, Hall 2 

Orthoceran mnUicamcratuin, Hall 1 

{AclinocLran) beloltcnsis, Whit G 

riiragntoccras fahitHtcs, Courad 15 

3 

lllcvinis oiuitus, Cdiirad D 

Dicelloccphaliis ? 3 

Twenty-seven genera, 40 species, and 339 specimens. 

Mr. Powers deserves credit for sending a neatly labeled collection of 
Trenton fossils that contains a good representation of the species named, 
some of which are very rare and in good condition. 

Ace. Xo. Specimens. 

10684. From D. S. Dcering, Independence, Iowa (November 10, 1885) : 

Silicitied coral, probably of the genus Michdinia, species un- 
known 1 

1G763. From Frank Burns, U. S. Geological Survey (November 10, 1885) : 
Trenton group, Maury County, Tenn. : 

Columnaria alvcolata, Goldfuss 1 

1(5782. From H. C. Duvall, Washington, D. C. : 
Devonian, Charleston, Ind. : 

Nuclcocrinus Verneaili Troost 1 

17280. From W. A. Finkolnburg, Wiuoua, Minn. : 
Trenton Limestone: 

Asaphus Barrandi, Hall (cast) 1 

platyceplialus, Stokes (cast) 1 

Cahjnienc seiiaria 1 

Potsdam Sandstone: 

Ptychoparia ( fragments of four species) 4 

1737'J. From Wiley Brittou, Springtield, Mo. : 

I'rodiictns semirttlculatus 1 

Spirifera lotjan i 1 

. An old accession not heretofore recorded (Catalogue Nos. 15054-15078). 

Stansbury Expedition Collection : 
Carboniferous fossils : 

Zaphrcn lis ? mtiltilamellatam, Hall 9 

stanshuri/i, Hall 5 

Faviphyllum ? rugosum, Hall 3 

I'rodtictus sp. ? 2 

cord, D'Orb 4 

semirctivulatus, Martin 2 

Chonetes granuJiftra, Owen 2 



222 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Speciiuoua. 

Spirifera camcraia, Martin 2 

octoplicata, Sowerby 2 

sp? 1 

Retzia radialis, Phillips 2 

Athjiris subtilita, Hall 14 

TeJUiiomi/a protensa, Hall 1 

Cypricardia occidentalis, Hall 1 

AUorinma terminalis, Hall 1 

Avktihi ? citrta, Hall 3 

Pleurotomaria connila, Hall 1 

EuomphaluH stihpJanun, Hall 2 

StrvptorhyncJiuii crenintria, Phillips 1 

Aviculopvcten 1 

Fifteeu genera, 20 species, and 59 specimens. 

This is the Paleozoic portion of the collection studied by Prof. James 
Hall aud reported upon in Stansbury's Expedition to the Great Salt 
Lake, 1852 : 

Ace. No. 

17366. Collection of the Fortieth Parallel Survey : 

Carboniferous fossils : Specimens. 

Arcliccocidaris 3 

Criuoidal colunius (four localities) 4 

S2>on(jiw ? ? (two localities) 2 

J Zapkrentis .stanshiiryi, Hall 1 

Syringopora 1 

Fusilina cyJindrica, Fischer ( three localities) 6 

Fenestella (two localities) 3 

Bryozoans 1 

Disciiia 4 

Chwtetes 2 

Chovetes 1 

(jrayiulxfera 2 

granuUfera, Owen 1 

I'roductus cora, D'Orb. (ton localities) 55 

we);aderms, Meek ? (three localities) 12 

(seven localities) 17 

subacuJeatus, Murch 2 

multislriatus, Meek (three localities) 12 

longispinus, Sowerby 5 

punctatus, Martin (two localities) 3 

costoiits, Sowerby (two localities) 7 

COStatUS YSiT 11 

snbhorridus, Meek (four localities) 23 

Orthis viichelini, var. ncvadensis, Meek 1 

Streptorhynchus crenistria, Phillips 3 

Spiriftra ( two localities) 2 

Betzia radialis, Phillips 10 

Athyris subtilita, Hall (two localities) 4 

Athyris^ 1 

lihynchonella tita. Marcou 8 

jpcntalium (two localities) H 



DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 223 

Ace. No. Spcciiueua. 

1730G. Bdhrophoii 4 

varbonarius, Cox ? ? (two localities) 3 

Conulariasi). ". -- 1 

Aviculopecteu (six localities) 13 

sj). ? (two localities) 18 

curto-cardinalis, H. & W 2 

l)arvtilus,Ii. & W. (two localities) 10 

EdmondiaJ (three localities) 3 

Myacites sp. ? 1 

Myal'ma ? 1 

2)vrmiiiiia, Swallow. 3 

avivnloides, M. & H - 3 

NucaUna hcUhiriata, Stevens 3 

Scdyirivkid coiicdva, M. & H 4 

Schizodus ovdius, M. &H 3 

curius, M. &B. 1 

ricurojyhorus ?? 1 

ohioiiyus, Meek G 

Tweuty-seveii genera, 49 species, aud 318 specimens. 

The colloctious of Paleozoic fossils of the FoitietU Parallel Survey 
were taken charge of by the writer in 1882, and as his time permitted 
the material was worked over, identitied and recorded. The original 
field-labels were largely with the specimens, but the identifications 
made by Messrs. Meek, Hall, and Whitfield were largely lost, except 
in the case of the figured specimens. The entire collection has now 
been labelled and turned over to the U. S. National Museum collections, 
the present accession being the last. 

Ace. No. Specimens 

17'284. From the U. S. Geological Survey, through Charles D. Walcott, in 
charge Division of Paleozoic Invertebrate Paleontology 
(catalogue Nos. 14999-15053). 
Carboniferous fossils from Eastern Tennessee : 

Za2)hrcn tis sp. ? 10 

Slreptorhynchus creriistria, Martin 4 

Chonitted yranulifera, N. 4&,P ,.--.. 1 

Produclus semireticulafus, var f 28 

semireticulatus, Martin 9 

sp.? 4 

Spirifvra rockymon (ana, Marcou 15 

(M.) lineata, Martin 1 

sp.? 4 

lihytichoiulla iita, Marcou 1 

lietzia verneniliana, Hall 1 

AthyriH sp. ? 3 

Tcrebratula trinuvhu, Hall? 1 

Productus cora ? 1 

Ten genera, 13 species, 1 variety, and 83 specimens. 
Silux-ian : 

Stromatopora sp. ? 1 

Chonctes sp. ? 13 

Orthis sp , , , , 8 



224 



REPORT UN NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



Ace. No. Specimens. 

17284. lihyuchondlaspj , 50 

Ehynclwspira sp.? 1 

Leptocadia heinispherica, Hall 2 

Avicula rhomhoides, Hall .* 1 

Tellinomya curta, Hall 2 

Beyrichia lata, Vauuxem 21 

Cahjmene cUntoni, Hall 7 

Ten genera, 10 .species, and 100 specimens. 
Lower Silurian (Ordoviciau): 

Streplelasina cornicuhnii, Hall — 1 

MonticttUpora lycoperdon, Say • 21 

Escharopora recta, Hall 1 

Leptwna sericca, Sowerby 7 

Strophomena alter nata, Conrad 20 

Orthis testudinaria, Dalmau 35 

occidentalis, Hall 9 

tricenaria, Conrad 17 

Ehynchonella capax, Conrad 24 

Zygospira recurvirostra, Hall 2 

Cypricardites winchelli, Safford 1 

sajfordi. Hall 3 

Murchisonia miller i, Hall 6 

Euoniphalus sp. ? 1 

Orthoceras arciioliratam, Hall ? 1 

juncemn, Hall 3 

Dalmanitcs sp. ? i.. 2 

Cyrtoceras 2 

Fourteen genera, 18 species, and 156 specimens. 
17365. From the U. S. Geological Survey, through Charles D. Walcott, 
in charge Division of Paleozoic Invertebrate Paleontology 
(catalogue No.s. 15148-15165). 
Carboniferous fossils from Nevada : 

Athyris suhtilita 47 

sp.? 1 

Discina, sp.? 2 

Griffithides, sp. ? 2 

Orthis 7 

Pinna . - — -. 3 

Terehratiila hastata, Sowerby 8 

StreptorhyncJms crenistria, Phillips 5 

Spirifera (like S. logani. Hall) 1 

roclcymontana, Marcou 9 

striata, Martin 8 

camcrata, Martin 4 

Spiriferina crisiata, Schlothoim 2 

lietzia radialis, Phillips 7 

Euomplialus 1 

Twelve genera, 15 species, and 107 specimens. 
17448. From the U. S. Geological Survey, through Charles D. Walcott, in 
charge Division of Paleozoic Invertebrate Paleontology. 
Devonian fossils from Nevada : 

Ehynchonella sinuata, Hall ? 7 

duplicata, Hall 6 



DEPARTMENT OF INVEUTEBRATE FOSSILS. 225 

Ace. No. Sptciiucns. 

174 Id. NncJeosinra concinna, Hall 2 

Atrypa rclicularis, Liiiu 32 

I'roduclua Hhamardia n its, Hall 6 

sp. ? I 

Slrophodonta, sp. 1 4 

Orthiti impressa, Hall d 

Linijula (like Z, I'ujea, Hall) 5 

rcntamerun Lotis, var. Waluott 4Ci 

Cyrthia hamiUonenais, Hall, 1 

16 

32 

Ambocwlia b 

Spirifcra wp. ? 3 

Ailiyris, sp. ? 7 



Uolopca "'. 3 

I'Juumphalus, sp. ? » 

riatystoma Uneatum, ? Couiad 1 

Eitoinpluilus (/'.) laxiis, Hall ? „ 2 

lUihrophon 1 

Modiomoi-pha, ? sp. ? 7 

Lcpcrdilia, s^). ? 1 

Orlhoceran, .sp. ? 1 

Orthoca-as ? 5 

Niuetccu geuura, 27 species, 1 variety, aud 213 speciiueus. 

This small collection of Devonian fossils is of interest, as it shows 
liic extension of tlie Devonian fauna into southern-central Nevada. 

I72,i(). From the U. S. Gcolo|;ical Survey, through Charles U. Walcolt, lu charge 
Divlsiou of Paleozoic Invertebrate Paleoutolo<;y, 3,500 speciuieus of 
fossils from Dovouiau aud Silurian wtrata of southern Indiana and 
northern Kentuck3\ This material has been labeled, with locality 
aud lV)rujation, aud distributed through the main colletitiou to be 
studied when revicwiug that collection. 



WORK ON COLLECniONS. 

The direct work on the collections of tlie Museum has been the 
recording, identifying', and labeling of the nuiterial mentioned under 
'' accessions," and a continuation, as opportuiiity ollered, of the arrange 
iMcnt of the old collections of the Smithsonian institution. The latter 
work has been very limited, owing to the winter's [)Osition as i)aleontolo- 
gist in charge of the paleozoic paleontology of the U. 8. Geological 
Harvey, requiring him and his assistants to devote the most of their 
tiiuc to original work in connection with the Surve,>': This work will, 
in a large degree, inure to the benetitof the Museum colJections, as the 
material studied contains numy new types and large numbers of species 
U. Mis. 170, pt. L' 15 



226 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

illustratiug tbe striitigrapliic aud geograi)liic distribution of life during 
paleozoic time. 

There is at present quite a large amount of material transferred from 
the ( Seological Survey that can be placed on exhibition as soon as cases 
are prepared to receive it. 

A list of the publications which appeared during the year, and which 
were based on material in the collection, will be found in Part iv. 

The systematic collection of Cambrian fossils, commenced in 1884, 
together with the formation of a collectioji of material from the typical 
localities of Lower Silurian and ])evonian fossils, has advanced, aiul 
large collections have been made as the means available permitted. If 
this can be continued, there is, in the near future, the prospect of large 
increase to the collections of the Museum. The direct field-work of the 
geologists of the Geological Survey will also add to the collection as 
soon as the material is studied and turned over to the Museum. 

Other sources of increase will be from the accessions by exchange 
and the contributions made by individuals. I think the latter source 
of increase will enlarge when a portion of the collection is placed on 
exhibition and j^arties interested know that attention will be given to 
the care of their contributions. 

With all of the above, there is still a source of increase that can only 
be made available by the use of a collecting and purchasing fund. 
There are localities that can not bo i^roperly visited and collections made 
by the ofQcers of the Geological Survey. On the northern border of [ho. 
United States, in Canada, New Brunswick, and even in ISTewfoundlaud, 
it is essential that collections should be (>btained for comparative 
study. 

It frequently occurs that individuals who have given years to col- 
lecting in some locality desire to sell their collections at a relatively 
small cost as compared with the expense of collecting. When such 
collections will fill gaps in the collections of the Museum it is very desir- 
able, if the Museum is to take a high position in this department, that 
they should be secured. 

The American Museum of Natural History, in New York City paid 
$()5,000 for the Hall collection, and the Museum of Comparative Zoology 
of Cambridge, Mass., has purchased large collections of Paleozoic; Ibs- 
sils. The National Museum does not need to make such large out- 
lays, of money, but a comparatively small sum, available each year, 
would, with other sources of increase, give a collection worthy of the 
Museum. 

The collections are now arranged in sixteen table cases in the south- 
east court of the Museum. With the exception of writing out the labels 
in four of the cases, and the addition of the material from accessions, 
no changes have been made since the last annual report of this depart- 
ment was submitted. The number of specimens was given then as 
follows : 



DEPAliTMENT OF INVEKTECKATE FOSSILS. 227 

Canibiiaii 10,848 

Sihuiaii '. 12,418 

Devonian II!, Tiia 

CarlioniferoMS ;'>:!, (188 

IVniiian 1,81)2 

Green's casta (plaster) 255 

Total 72, (ill) 

To this must be addcl the accessions of t!ie past year, 7,S.j3 s[)eci- 
iiK'iis. The hist miiuber entered in the catah>giie in June, 1885, was 
11850, and iu June, 1880, 15400. 



REPORT ON THR DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEF.RATE FOSSILS (MESOZOID 
IN THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOJ^ THE YEAR ENDING JUNE llll, 
ll{8(). 



By C. A. White, Honorary Curator. 



Tlic principal additions; wliicli liavo been made to the collections of 
Mesozoic invertebratcw during the past year are those which have been 
sent to the Museum by the U. S. (leological Survey. Only a small part 
of these have been registered in the reconls of the Museum ; all tlie 
others having been cleansed, ticketed, and placed in cases in the north 
balcony of the Smithsonian Building. Our records show that eight 
accessions have been received through the Museum, all but two of 
which are small and unimportant. One of these is a small lot of Creta- 
ceous fossils from Mexico, all new species, the gift of Senor Jos6 G. 
Aguilera, of the Mexican Geographical and Exploring Commission. 

The other is a collection of about two hundred si)ecimens, represent- 
ing about seventy species, from M. Charpy, Director of the Museum at 
Annecy, ITaute-Savoy, France. They are of Jurassic and lower Creta- 
ceous age. 

Tlie work of arranging and classifying the collections of the Museum 
has progressed during the year, and has reached a condition in which 
tlie collections are all accessible for convenient study, but nothing has 
been done with reference to their installation, or their separation into 
reserve, exhibition and exchange series. 

The work of arranging and classifying has embraced the numerous 
collections which have been for many years in possession of the Mu- 
seum, some of which had been damaged and their labels destroyed by 
the lire which occurred in tlie Smithsonian Building many years ago. 

To identify and arrange these collections has required much labor. 
Each specimen has undergone the process of identification, cleansing, 
recording upon the Museum register, being numbered in paint, labelled, 
and finally .arranged in tr.ays, drawers, and cases suitable for conven- 
ient reference. All of tiiis has been done, as far ;is possible, in accord- 
ance with the prescribed usages of the Museum, but often, in theabsence 
of ])recedent, it has been found necessary to devise new methods of ar- 
rangement. 

229 



230 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

The arraugeinent in cases Las been made as follovv& : All collections 
whose entirety had not been broken, or the specimens identified and 
labelled, were transferred to the north balcony of the Smithsonian Build- 
ing and there arranged according to locality. To the collections of the 
U. S. Geological Survey a green tag was glued upon each specimen, 
bearing the accession number of the Survey. All the collections were 
arranged in cases geographically and a card index made, by which 
every collection can be readily referred to. 

The second class of collections embraced all specimens that had been 
identified and duly recorded on the Museum register and labelled in the 
proper manner. The temporary arrangement of this material in the 
southeast court of the Museum has been completed. 

The present i^rovisional arrangement is purely stratigraphical; onl}- 
a broad biological classification having been attemjited under each geo- 
logical period. 

The many valuable type specimens belonging to the collection have 
been arranged separately from the stratigraphical arrangement above 
mentioned, so that they can be conveniently studied as a whole. These 
have been collected together and reidentified by Mr. Marcou, who has 
published a catalogue of the same in the proceedings of the Museum.* 

During the year, 1563 entries were made in the Museum catalogue. 

No estimate has been made of the total number of specimens in the 
Museum collections, nor any attempt to group them into different cate- 
gories. 

* Vol. via, pp. 290-344. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF FOSSIL PLANTS IN THE U. S. 
NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, IWu 



By Lesteii F. Ward, Honor aru Curator. 



Comparatively i\'\\ additions liave been made to tlie collcctiou during 
the year, tlie most important being a series of 33 species (93 specimens), 
presented by ]\Irs. IT. C Leckwitli. IMost of the specimens in tin's do- 
nation were coHected by Rev. A. Lakes in the vicinity of Morrison, Colo., 
the rest from Golden, Colo. 

The other additions consist of specimens sent by the various cor- 
respondents of the Institution for identification. 

The routine work in the department has lieen confined to caring for 
the specimens as they have been received, and in boxing up an<l send- 
ing for determination the large mass of mnterial, which has been accu- 
mulating for many years. 

In September, 188,^, ten boxes of miscellaneous material were sent to 
Prof. Leo Lesquereax, of Columbus, Ohio, for identific;ition. This 
material has been accunnilating since the founding of the Smithsonian 
Institution, and had become of such magnitude that the question of 
space was a serious oiu\ In working up this material Professor Lesqne- 
reux has found much that is incapable of satisfactoiy determination, and 
such has been discarded. On the last of May, 1880, these specimens were 
returned to the Museum, all carefully labeled. From this material Pro- 
essor Lesquereux was able to determine about 150 species, of which 
number 107 species were new to the collection and 11 new to science. 

PRESENT RTATl': OF TtlK COLLKCTION. 

(1) Total number of spccimena of ciitalojxnod material (esclnaivc of my recent 

collection still in hand for stndy ) 7, 439 

(2) Number of specimens not specifically idtuitilicd (mostly fossil wood) 1,713 

(:>) Determined material T), 013 

(4) Number of specimens discarded 113 

(f)) Duplicates now stored in tlie Armory J>uildin<;- 1,091 

(()) Number of distinct species identified, c.-italogued, and installed : 

I'aleozoic - 330 

Mesozoic • 194 

Cenozoic •'^48 

1,072 

231 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF RECENT PLANl^ IN THE U S. 
NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNR ?A ]m. 



By Lester F. Ward, Rorwrary Curator. 



TliQ largest and most valuable addition to the collootion was pre- 
sented by Dr. V. Havard, U. S. Array. This collection, from Texas 
and the Southwest generally, contains many species new to the 
herbarium and also some new to science which have recently been 
described by Dr. Asa Gray and Mr. Sereno Watson. Quite a number 
are species detected for the first time within the limits of the United 
States. The collection is particularly rich in (hmpositcc^ Graminecc, and 
ferns. 

Kext in importance is the collection of about 1,000 species, presented 
b}' Mr. William. M. Oanbj^, of Wilmington, Del., which is also rich in 
western plants, particularly from Calfornia. This with the ITavard 
donation added over 1,500 species to the herbarium. 

A fine collection of nearly 350 species from the Yellowstone National 
Park was donated by Mr. Frank Tweedy. These specimens are doubly 
valuable as they were used by Mr. Tweedy in the preparation of his 
" Flora of the Yellowstone National Park," recently issued (Wash- 
ington, 1886). 

Mr. C. O. Pringle has presented a sot of his Plantar Mexicana?, col- 
lected in Mexico in 1885, most of which are new to the herbarium. 

Dr. Edward Palmer lias also donated a set of the plants collected by 
himself in southwestern Chihuahua in 1885. More than 20 per cent 
of the collection consi sts of species new to science. 

Mr. Gerald McCarthy donated nearly a complete set, about 300 spe- 
cies, of his North Carolina collection of 1885. This distribution is rich 
in grasses and sedges. 

Besides the above donations there have been many otliors, of varying 
size, from nearly all parts of the country, which fact goes to prove that 
when the existence of the herbarium becomes more widely known the 
influx of material will be rapid. 

Nearly two months of the first part of the fiscal year were spent in 
completing the card-catalogue of the Joad collection. This collection 
consisted of about 10,000 species, 0,000 of which were now to the herb- 

233 



234 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

arium, for which cards liad to be written. Tn the matter of practical 
working, this card-catalogne is found to bo of great vahie, since by 
consulting it the presence or absence of any species may be at once 
determined without the necessity of going to the cases. This is be- 
lieved to be tlie only large herbarium in this country in which this 
sj'stem has been adopted, and the labor of keeping it up Avill be very 
slight compared with what it would be to prepare such a catalogue after 
the accumulation of a great mass of material. No species is considered 
as belonging to the collection until its card has first been written and 
entered. Besides convenience of consultation, this system possesses 
another p:>int of advantage in that it furnishes the source of a record, 
easily accessible, of the exact status and magnitude of the collections, a 
matter which is open to much speculation when no such data are at 
hand. 

The poisoning of specimens newly received has occui)ied much time. 
About 5,000 specimeus have been permanently protected from the rav- 
ages of insects. A complete immersion of the specimen in a saturated 
alcoholic solution of corrosive sublimate has been fimnd most eflica- 
cious. 

The work wiiich has required the largest amount of time has been 
the selection of material for mounting. Instead of mounting indiscrimi- 
nately the mass of duplicate material which constantly comes to a col- 
lection of this character, a careful comparison is always nuule in order 
to bo certain that the specimens will actually add to the ones already 
in hand ; either a different phase of the plant or a new and interesting 
locality. Tn this manner pui-e duplication is checked and the grow^th 
of the herbarium made to accommodate itself, as nearly as i)ossible, to 
the i^resent somewhat restricted s])ace. As rapidly as the specimens 
selected can be mounted they are added in their systematic place to tlie 
herbarium, so that no large amount of this new material is allowed to 
accumulate and remain inaccessible. 

In compliance with your circular issued March 1, ISSo, much work 
has been done towards perfecting a list of the cultivated plants of the 
District of Columbia. Most of the time of Mr. A. L. Schott, when not 
engaged in caring for the living plants in the Museum, has been spent 
in making extensive collections about the city. Several thousand spec- 
imens are the result of this labor. These have all been poisoned and 
await final identification, which we hope soon to have time to undertake. 
A slip catalogue of those already determined has been commenced and 
now contains about 1,800 slips. As the estimated number of cultivated 
species is about 4,000, much work yet remains to be done. 

In regard to the exhibition and study series nothing has as yet been 
attempted, although a large mass of material, principally woods, fruits, 
fruit vessels, etc., has accumulated. It is to be hoped that at no dis- 
tant day an exhibition of this character may be undertaken, since from 
an educational point of view it wouhl undoubtedly be of great value. 
When once begun its growth will be rapid, since by seeing unique vege- 



DEPARTMENT OF RECENT RLANTS. 235 

table products the general public will be stimulated to give material 
which is now allowed to be wasted. 

The research work has been confined in the main to the identification 
of material that has been sent for determination bj^ its correspondents, 
or has in other ways become the property of the department. When 
the routine work of installing the collections now in hand is completed 
it is hoped that more extended researches may be undertaken. 

According to the record furnished by the card-catalogue, there are 
now in the herbarium and accessible 15,538 species of plants. Of the 
actual number of specimens it is impossible to state, but 30,000 may be 
taken as a safe estimate, as it is less than an average of two to each 
species. It is also impossible to give the exact number of duplicates for 
distribution or exchange, but there are probably from 5,000 to 8,000 
specimens. 

The last entry in the INIuseum catalogue on June 30, 1885, was 23, and 
the last on June 30, 188G, was G3, making a total of 40 entries during 
the year. 



REPURT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF MINERALS IN THE U. S. NATIONAL 
MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1886. 



By F. W, Glakke, Honorary Curator. 



TliG accessions liave beeu iiuuicrous, both by gift aud oxchange, and 
have covered a wide range of species. Of the gifts the following have 
been among the more important: 

From Cliiirles F. Brown, :{;"> specimens of (juartz, wavollite, rutile, etc., from Arkan- 
sas. 
From F. W. Taylor, a series of tLe vaua<lates from Lake Valley, New Mexico. 
From Prof. N. H. Winchell| Ibomsonites, etc., from Minuosota. 
From Prof. R. Eliswortli Call, largo calciles, froui Molino, 111. 
From Maj. J. W. Pt)we]l, a full series of tlie ttirijuoises of New Mexico. 
From file West Prussian I'rovincial Museum at Dauzig, 15 inclusions in amber. 

Of our exchanges tlie more noteworthy accessions have been as fol- 
hjws : 

From W. J. Knowlton, I'M specimens of annite, cryopLyllite, ilaualite, etc., from 
liockjjort, Mass. 

From N. P. Pratt, a collection of coruudums from Georgia. 

From Prof. Archibald Liversidge, G4 specimens of Australian minerals. 

From tlie Mus6o d'Aiinecy, 70 specimens of minerals, mostly French. 

From the Ecolo dos Mines at Paris, 41 specimens. 

From James Matters, a series of minerals from the French Creek Mine in Pennsyl- 
vania. 

From Prof. B. K. Emerson, of Amherst College, 50 specimens, miscellaneous. 

The foregoing entries ;ire but a few out of many, and refer to the 
mineral collection proper. The subcollections of gems and of meteor- 
ites, however, have been [iroportionally enriched, as the subjoined ex- 
amples show. 

METEORITES. 

From Dr. J. Berrien Lindshiy, 10 Bpecimens of meteorites by gift. 

From G. F. Kunz, a fine slice of the Gloricta meteorite in exchange. 

From Prof. C. U. Shepard, 17 specimens of meteorites in exchange. 

From S. C. II. Bailey, 3 specimens of meteorites in exchange. 

From the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, a slice of a Tennessee meitoiite. 

GEMS AND OHNAMKNTAL STONES. 

From G. F. Kunz, by gil't, :? Brazilian tourmalines 

From Dr. 1). B. McCarleCjby gift, an "inksloiie holder" of Chinese jade, niountcd ^■l\ 
a carved teak wood base. 

237 



238 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

From Prof. G. B. Goode, ou deposit, n carved agalmatolite plate. 

From the New Orleaus Exposition, through the Department of State, a aeries of Per- 
sian turquoises. 

From Thomas Donaldson, esq., on deposit, a line series, polished, of the New Mexican 
turquoise. 

By purchase, a collection of nearly a thousand examples of the crys- 
tallized quartz from near Hot Si)rings, Ark., was also acquired. 

The routine work of the department, in addition to the usual details 
of cataloguing, labeling, etc., has involved much labor in the identifica- 
tion of species, completing exchanges, prei)ariDg and shipping sets of 
minerals to schools and colleges, and correspondence. Furthermore, 
great progress has been made in mounting the collection for exhibition, 
and in the final distribution of the material into Museum and dujdicate 
series. lu the latter connection the entire collection has been thoroughly 
gone over and permanently classified. The final result of this classifica- 
tion may be stated numerically so as to show the actual extent of the 
collection on Julyl, 1880: 

Specimens. 

On exhibition, Museum series 15,238 

On exhibition, Willcox collection, deposited 1,229 

Reserve or study series 5, 401 

Duplicates • 8,530 

Total 18,401 

The number of the last catalogue entry in June, 1885, was 45,813, and 
that of the last catalogue entry in June, 1880, was 46,015, giving a total 
of 772 entries during the year. 

These figures require a few words of explanation, particularly as re- 
gards the policy of the department. The exhibition series naturally 
consists of the larger and showier specimens, and specimens having a 
general public interest. But in every collection of minerals there 
are many objects having purely scientific value, which could not be 
publicly displayed without using an unwarrantably large amount of 
space. Such specimens form our reserve or study series, and are pre- 
served in drawers underneath the regular show cases. This series is 
intended, so far as possible, to be monographic and exhaustive, so that 
it may be of use to mineralogists, who wish to make comparative studies 
of similar minerals from widely separated localities; and much material 
finds a place in it, which has value only on account of its origin or as- 
sociations. Some scientific work has been done on portions of the col- 
lection incidentally to my duties as chief chemist of the U. S. Geological 
Survey. For example, I have worked up the minerals from Litchfield, 
Me., and the turquoise from New Mexico, and Mr. E. B. Biggs has made 
full analyses of the lepidolites from Maine and the cryophyllite and 
annite of Rockport, Mass. A full description of the gem collection, by 
Mr. G. F. Kunz, appeared in the Popular Science Monthly for April, 
1880. The latter paper, brought down to date and revised, is repro- 
duced in Part iii of this report. 



IlEPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF LITHOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOL- 
OGY IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 
;)0, 188G. 



By George P. Merrill, Curator. 



The additions to the collections during the year covered by this re[)ort 
liave been nearly all in the form of small accessions from a great variety 
of sources, and but few of them were of sufficient importance to merit 
special mention. As heretofore, the department has had. to rely for its 
material mainly on exchauges and donations, and while much of the 
matter thus obtained is valuable, it is for the most part of a very mis- 
cellaneous character. 

The more important of the accessions are given in the following list: 

AbhoU, A. N. A scries of fulgurite tubes from Uuioii Grove, 111. 

American Institute of Minivg EiKjinccrs. Ninetj'-fivo siuuples luilive and foreign 

liuildiDg stone. 
Bcniadou, Ensign J. li. One slab Verdiintic^ue niarl)le, one stone jicTieil jar, one disk 

of yellow stone, and one l)ox of indurated tale. (?) Coreai. 
Biddle, Henri/ J. A collection of serpentines and associated rocks from Chester County, 

Pa. 
liouvc, T. T. Specimens ernptis'e rocks from llingliam, Mass. 
Charpij, M. L. (Museum of Annecy, llauto Savoy, France). A colled ion of ir)4 rocks 

from France, Italy, Belgium, and Hungary. 
Crittenden, A. B. Travertine. Eock of Gibraltar. 

Crosby, Prof. W. O. Collection of rocks and minerals, various sources. 
Dillcr, ./. S. Six specimens eruptive rocks from Kentucky and California. Also }>ho- 

tograph of a cliff of banded Iiypersthene andcsite. California. 
Dagger, S. M. One specimen flexible sandstone, Banner's Elk, Watauga, County, 

N. C. 
Kmerson, I'rof. 1>. K. A collection of some 50 specimens Massachusetts rocks and 

small slabs of Suisin City (California) "Marble." 
Fritsch, E. Six samples Algerian marbles. 
Georgia Marble Company. Twelve cubes, (> thin slabs, and 1 small eolunin of marble 

from Pickens County, Ga. 
Gurneij, II. I). One largo block red granite from Watab, Minn. 
Hill. B. T. Volcanic dusfc from near Wray Station, Colo. 
mtchcock, Prof. C. R. A collection of over 100 specimens rocks from New ll;inip- 

shire, and a vertical column showing the proportion;il thickness of (lie Archa'an, 

Cambrian, and Silurian rocks in New Hampshire. 
Horan, Henri/. Slab of stalagmite marble from the Liiniy Caves, Viiginia. 
Lamb, T.F. Ehoolite Syenite from Litchficlil, Me. 

Mclllienneij, Dr. W. S. Two spcjcimons soai)Ht()Tie from tJie District of Colinubia 

2-3U 



240 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Merrill, G. P. Collectiou of serpeutiuo froui llobokou, N. J. Basalt I'rom coast of 
Irolaud. Rocks from Auburu, Lewistou, a,uil Miuot, Me. 

Mexican Geographical Exploring Comminsion. Quo Luudred aud lifty specimcus rocks 
and building stones of Mexico, including a fine series of the celebrated "Mexi- 
can onyx." 

Mississijijn State Commissioners to the jVcw Orhuiis Expoaiivjn. Three samples building 
stone from Mississippi . 

New Orleans Exposition. One large concretion aud one large block of volcanic breccia. 

G'Leary, Dennis. Specimens from the memorial stones sent from Germany, Japan, 
Brazil, Cherokee Nation, Marylaud, and Massachusetts for the Washingtou Mon- 
ument. 

I'eale, Dr. A. C. Volcauie dust from Kausaa and Montana ; one sandstone and one 
l^yrite concretion, Montana. 

Furchascd. Three samples Mexieau onyx cut iu form of paper knife aud paper 
weights. 

lUce, Prof. WiUiatu North. A collectiou of 30 rocks and shells from Bermuda. 

Eoesler, F. E. Two samples building stone aud oue grindstone from Texas. 

Saylcs, Ira. A series of weathered limestones, concretions, aud stalagmitic deposits, 
Tennessee. 

Shepherd, A. li. Two specimens stalactites from Botopila, Mexico. 

South Carolina Commissioners to the New Orleans Exposition. Twelve samples building 
stones from South Carolina. 

State Department. Fifty-three saujples building stone from Nova Scotia and New 
Bruuswick. 

Stcjiieger, Dr. L. A collection of some 40 specimeua rocks from Copper aud Behriug'g 
Islands. 

Swiss Centennial Commission 1876. Eighty specimeu rocks from the St. Cothard Tuu 
uel. 

Trigg, J. S. Six small pieces aud oue large slab "Madrepore" marble, Charles City, 
Iowa. 

True, F. W. Collectiou of rocks from Loudoun Couuty, Va. 

Turner-, L. M. Collection of rocks from Uugava, Labrador. 

Wadsworth, Dr. M. E. Volcanic dust from Dakota. 

Jl'ard and Howell. One large slah of limestone with glacial markings, from Roches- 
ter, N. Y. 

lyUliams, Dr. Geor ge II. A collection of 25 native and foreign rocks. 

Winchell, Prof. N. II. Fifty pounds catlinito, from Pipestone Couuty, Minn. 

U. S. Geological Survey. Twelve relief maps, including models of Mouut Taylor, New 
Mexico ; Washoe District, Nevada; Eureka District, Nevada ; Uinta and Was- 
atch Mountains, Utah ; Leadville aud vicinity, Colorado : The same in sec- 
tions; High Plateaus of Utah; Henry Mountains, Utah; Stereogram of the 
Henry Mountains, Utah ; Elk Mountains, Colorado ; Yosemito Valley California; 
and the Yellowstone National Park. 

Tho preparation of the Jcsup collection of building stones for the 
American Museum iu New York City, of which mention was umde iu 
my report for tho six montlis ending June 30, 1885, consumed a large 
portion of the time up to January 1. This work was completed at 
about the date noted, and the collection is now packed and awaiting 
shipment. It comprises some 1,073 sami^les in the form of 4 inch cubes 
and 1,000 thin sections for microscopic study. All the leading quarries 
in the country are represented, and next to our own this may be consid- 
ered the most complete and systematic collectiou of its kind in the 
United States. What time was not taken uj) by tbis work has beei; 



DEPARTMENT OF LITHOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOLOGY. 241 

iully occupied in ideutifyin^H- and {inanging the niateriuLs coniiHising 
the various collections intended to form a part of the reserve series. 
Tarticular attention has been given to the preparation of the exhibition 
series, but owing to hick of some very essential materials and an insufii 
(uent number of proper cases, the collections of rock-forming materials, 
the structural series, lithological series, and the building and orna- 
mental stones only are in conditions approximating completion. In 
Part III of this report will be found a catalogue of the building stone col- 
lection, so annotated and arranged as to constitute a provisional hand- 
book. There are now in process of preparation the three exhibition 
series classed under the heads of Dynamical, Structural, and Ilistorical 
Geology. A portion of the materials belonging to these series are 
already on exhibition, being of themselves sulliciently striking in appear- 
ance to excite interest, though not occupying their proper places in the 
systematic collection. 

Some two hundred thin sections of rocks have been added to the Mu- 
seum collections during the year, being prepared in large part by Mr. 
L. 11. Merrill. 

I regret being obliged to state that no progress has been made in 
the matter of labeling during the entire period covered by this report. 
Labels have been written but if printed at all the work has been done 
in such a mann^,r as to render the results valueless, and to necessitate 
what will amount practically to rewriting the entire coi)y. It is need- 
less to say, that so far as this department is concerned, the present 
methods of printing (whereby the curator receives no proof-sheets) are 
extremely unsatisfactory. 

Eight series of duplicates, comprising 292 specimens, have been sent 
out during the year in the way of exchanges. To this list should also 
be added the building-stone collection alreaily noted, which although 
not as yet shii^ped is in complete readiness. 

The working force of the department was largest during tlie early 
part of the year, owing to the extra work entailed in the preparation of 
the Jessup collection of building stone. It has been as follows: 

For the three months ending October 1, two stone-cutters and one 
stone-polisher; for the four months ending October 31, one laborer; 
for the six months ending December 31, one section-cutter and general 
assistant, Mr. L. II. Merrill ; for the entire year one lady clerk, Miss B. 
Frankland. Since March, Mr. E. S. Lewis has satisfactorily tilled the 
position of volunteer assistant, and one laborer has been detailed to 
work in the department when not required for si)ecial duties elsev*'here. 

The total number of entries upon the department catalogue during 
the year has been 1,021, comprising some 1,27G specimens of various 
kinds. 

Pressure of routine work in the past, as in preceding years, has pre- 
cluded the devotion of mu(;h time to original work with a view to pub- 
lication. This together with the fact that such of my time as could be 
U. Mis. 170, pt. 2 IG 



242 iiEl'OKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

sparo<l lia.s been <levoted to papers of coiusideiable leiij^tb, and wiiicU 
are as yet incomplete, euts clown llie possible list to two titles, ;is given 
in the bibliography.* 

Tlie collections are liot as yet snflicieutly systematized to aflbrd good 
facilities for study to other than Museum otlicials, and, although they 
have frequently been consulte<l for purpose of comparison, notbing, 
other than above, has been published regarding them so far as I am 
awaie. 

The present state of the collection is as follows: 

Whole uumber of rock specimoua in the reserve series 17,G47 

Whole nninber of rock specimens iu the duplicuto series 3, OUO 

Total 20,647 

Of the reserve series 5,313 are now on exhibition ; of these 2,730 are 
building and ornamental stones, and 1,829 belong to the eeliieatioual 
series of rocks and rock forming minerals. The remainder are miscella- 
neous materials, not yet in their proper places in the series of which 
they are to form a part. There are also now in the collection some 3,400 
thin sections of rocks for microscopic study. 

The rocks of the reserve series not designated or as yet not utilized 
for exhibition, but which are stored in the drawers of table cases, num- 
ber some 12,203. This number may be reduced somew hat by the with- 
drawal, from time to time, of materials to make up the exhibition 
series. They may be summarized as follows: 

Spetimcus. 
From the various geological horizons of Canada, New Brnnswick, and 

Nova Scotia 854 

From Victoria, Australia 355 

From the United States Geological Snrveys \vcst of the 100th meridian 5G8. 

From the United States Geological exploration of the 40th parallel 2, G40 

From Leadvill(% Colorado, S. F. Emmons, United States Geological Survey. 588 
From the Coinstock Ledge and Washoe districts, Nevada, G. F. Becker, 

United States Geological Survey 198 

From St. Gothard Tunnel 80 

Rocks of New Ifanipshiie 250 

Miscellaneous, classified by kinds 2, 527 

Other miseellanoous 4, 143 

Total 12.2tl3 

Aside from the rocks mentioned above as forming a part of the sys- 
tematic series, there are now on exhibition thefollowin^i; objects of interest 
which were in part noted in my report for 1881 : One sl(»i)e table case of 
lavas from Ice Spring Buttes, Utah; one slope table case of tufas from 
Lake Lahontan, Nevada; one slope table caseof siliceous and calcareous 
sinters from the Yellowstone National Park; one door screen case of 
concretions; one pier case of stalagmites and stalactites, and one pier 
case devoted to collections illustrating the geology of rx'rmi.da; this col- 
lection is not yet complete. Tiiere arc also sundry interesting specimens 

* See Part IV. 



DEPAKTMKNT OK LITIIOLOCY AND I'llYSlCAL (iEOLOdY. 243 

Bliowiiij^ ^lacijition, s;uid orosion, lipplc marks, and mud cracks, but 
which need not be mentioned more in detail since they do not as yet 
occupy their proper phices in the systematic exhibits. 

Otlier miscelhineous materials on exhibition are mentioned in the fol- 
lowing list : Eight geological maps of the United States and foreign 
countries; one large ma}) showing distribution of temperature in the 
United States for the months of June, July, and August; one large 
nuij) showing distribution of rain-fall for the same period; one large 
map showing distribution of rain-fall for the months of December, Jan- 
uary and February ; fifteen astronomical views comprising the Trou- 
velot series of astronomical drawings; twenty-three photographs of 
stone (piarries; eight colored i)hotograi)hs of stone buildings; tifteen 
geological views, including the large plates from Dutton's atlas of the 
Grand Canon of the Colorado of the West; seventeen, models, or re- 
lief maps. These last are given in detail below: 

I. Yellowstone National Park. Scale, 1 inch ==1 mile; horizontal and 
vertical the same. jVIodeled by E. E. Howell. Issued by Ward & 
IJowell. Size, 1 feet 7A inches by 5 feet 5.1 inches. U. S. Geological 
Survey. 

II. Elk Mountains of Colorado. Scale : horizontal, 1 inch=:l mile; 
vertical, 1 in(!h=2,G-10 feet. Modeled by W. II. Holmes. Size, 2 feet 
2 inches by 3 feet 8 inches. U. S. Geological Survey. 

III. Mount Vesuvius and Monte Somnui, Italy. C()mi)iled by Tiiomas 
Dickert. Size, 2 feet 4^ inches by 2 feet 4A inches. Issued by Waul 
cSi Howell. 

lY. Geological model of Switzerland. Size, 11 inches by 21 inches. 

V. The Washoe District, Nevada. Scale, 1 inch = 1,00(5 feet or 
1:200U0; horizontal and vertical the same. Geology by G. F. Becker. 
Blodeled by E. 10. Howell. Size, 2 feet 5A inches by 3 feet 3 inches. 
Issued by Ward & Howell. U. S. Geological Survey. 

VI. Leadvillo, Colo., and vicinity. Scale, 1 inch=^800 feet, or 1 :DG()0. 
Geology by S. F. f^mmons; modeled by E. E. Howell. Size, 2 feet 7A 
inches. Issued by AVard »S: Howell. U. S. Geological Survey. 

VII. The same in se(;tions. U. S. (5eological Survey. 

VIII. Gulf of Mexico. Scale: vertical, 1 inch=^l,()()() fathoms; ratio of 
vertical to horizontal, 0.03. Size, 23 by 32 inches. Issued by Coast 
and Geodetic Survey. 

IX. The Yosemite V^dley, California. Scale, about 1 inches to \ mile. 
Horizontal and vertical the same. Modeled by K. E. Howell from sur- 
vey by Kir)g and Gardner. Size, 2 feet 5 inches by 1 feet one-half 
inch. Issued by Ward & Howell. U. S. Geologic^al Survey. 

X. The San Juan Mountains and mining regions. Scale, 1 inch = l 
mile, or 1:033G0; vertical scale three times the horizontal. Modeled by 
T. W. Eglostein. Size, 4^ by 3.| inches. U. S. G(H)logical Survey, Capt. 
George M. AVlieeler in charge. 

XI. The Grand Canon of the Colorado of the West and Clitfs of 



244 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Southern Utah. Scale: vertical, 1 incli = 5,000 feet; borizoiital, 1 iucli=2 
miles. Modeled by E. E. Howell. Size, C feet G inches by C feet 7 
inches. Issued by Ward aud Howell. U. S. Geoloi;ical Survey. 

XII. Eureka District, Nevada. Scale, 1 iuch=],G0O feet, or 1 : 19200; 
horizontal aud vertical the same. Geology by Arnold Hague ; modeled 
by E. E. Howell. Size, 5 feet 2 inches by 5 feet Gi inches. Issued by 
Ward and Howell. U. S. Geological Survey. 

XIII. Uintah and Wasatch Mouutaius. Scale: vertical, 1:12G720; 
horizontal, 1 inch =4 miles, or 1 : 253140. Modeled by E. E. Howell. Size, 
4 feet oi inches by 4 feet 5h inches. Issued by Ward aud Howell. U. 
S. Geological Survey. 

XIY. Mount Taylor, New Mexico. Scale, 1 inch = l mile; horizontal 
and vertical the same. Geology by 0. E. Dulton ; modeled by E. E. 
Howell. Size, 4 feet 3| inches by 4 feet 3i inches. Issued by Ward 
and Howell. U. S. Geological Survey. 

XV. Henry Mountains, Utah. Scale, vertical and horizontal the same. 
Geology aud modeled by G. K. Gilbert. Size, 3 feet lOPi inches by 5 
feet 2h inches. Issued by Ward and Howell. U. S. Geological Survey. 

XVI. Stereogram of the Henry Mountains, Utah, showing the form 
the country would have if the eroded portion to the top of the creta- 
ceous were restored. Vertical and horizontal scale the same. Geology 
by G. K. Gilbert. Size, 3 feet lOJ inches by 5 feet oh inches. Issued 
by Ward and Howell. U. S. Geological Survey. 

XVII. High Plateaus of Utali. V(;rtical and horizontal scale the 
same. Modeled by G. E. Button. Size, 4 feet inches by 4 feet 10 
inches. Issued by Ward and Howell. U. S. Geological Survey. 



IJKPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OE METALLUROY AND ECONOMIC 
(iEOLOGY IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR END- 
ING JUNE 80, vmi 



By Fred. P. Dewey, Curator. 



During the year 175 accessions were received. Of these, 42 were col- 
lections gathered by the curator at the, New Orleans Exposition, which 
were fully described in the hist annual report, but which were not re- 
ceived in Washington in time to be accessioned until after the first of 
July, 1885. Of the remaining 13;3 accessions a very large number were 
specimens sent in for examination and report, and have no value what- 
ever to the Museum. Only 7 of the accessions are of sufficient impor- 
tance to be especially mentioned. These are: 

A small but very interesting and valuable collection representing the 
occurrence and associates of iridosniine, presented by Mr. A. D. Walcott, 
Randolph, Oregon. A small collection representing the occurrence of 
free silver in the P.atopilas region of Mexico, collected by Dr. Edward 
Palmer, of the Smithsonian Institution. A small collection represent- 
ing the appHcation of the Pussell leaclnng process for the extraction of 
the precious metals as applied to the ores of Lake Valley, New Mexico, 
presented by Mr, F. W. Taylor. A very full and interesting illustra- 
tion of the occurrence, extraction, and uses of aluminum, presented by 
(y()l. William Frishmuth, Philadelphia, Pa. A full series of photographs 
ol' microscopic; sections of iron and steel, presented by Mr. F. L. Garrison, 
Philadelphia, Pa. A series of English cokes from various localities and 
r('])resenting different processes of manufacture, presented by Mr. Ilenry 
Simon, Maiiclicster, l^iUgland. The vei-y large collection [)rescnted to the 
Museum by the American Institute of Mining Engineers. This collec- 
tion is espeiMally ri<;h in illustrations of the Americian iron industry, the 
ores of Missouri, and of foreign ores and metallurgical i)ro(;esscs; it will 
be more fully described in the historical sketch of the department. 

In cataloguing the collections, 5,500 entries, covering 8,233 si)ecimens, 
have been made. Besides the 175 accessions received during the year. 
29 ac(;essions, previously received, have been entered. This material 
may be divided as follows: From the New Orleans Exposition, 70 ac- 
cc^ssions, 2,422 entries, and 3,233 specimens ; American Institute of Min- 
ing pjiigineers, 1 acc-ession, 2,(»H; entries, and 4,230 s])ecimens ; miscella- 
neous, 127 accessions, 408 entries, and 704 specimens. 

245 



246 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

Ill tlie card-ciitalog-iie ],G38 entries have been made, and in this con- 
nection Mr. II. J. Biddle kindly vohmteeied assistance and examined a 
hxrge series of ores from Mexico, from Missouri, and from the New Or- 
leans Exposition, making 2,400 determinations of mineral species in the 
specimens. 

One hundred and seventy-seven specimens have been sent out in ex- 
change, 59 reports upon material submitted for examination, and 11 
special reports of information have been made. 

This is the first year since the organization of the department lliat 
there has been any serious attempt at systematic installation of the 
collections. Upon the receipt of the American Institute of Mining Engi- 
neers' collection a portion of the west hall was assigned for its exhibi- 
tion, but owing to the incompletness of the records of the material and 
to the fact that, while many of the individual collections were (piite I'nll 
and complete, there were many large gaps in the collection as a whole, 
which rendered its installation in the west hall unadvisable, it was 
found necessary to delay the exhibition of much of the material, and 
instead it was decided to install the systematic collections, the basis of 
which had been exhibited at the Isew Orleans Exhibition, using as much 
of the Institute collections as were in proper shape. 

A large portion of the year has been devoted to unpacking, cxamin ing, 
rearranging, and adding to the New Orleans material, so as to com[)lete 
as fiir as possible the metallurgical collection. Aside from the arrange- 
ment of the material, considerable time has been consumed in prepar- 
ing general labels for the collections. 

In addition to the papers noticed in the Bibliography (Part iv) iis 
published by the curator, tlierS is also included a notice of a i)aper by 
Mr. F. L. Garrison, of Philadelphia, describing the i)hotograplis ot 
microscopic sections of iron and steel, copies of which have been pre 
sen ted to the Museum. 

Early in 18S4 the attention of the department was turned towards the 
necessity of an examination of the fuel values of American coals, and 
in the latter part of the year the results of a careful examination of the 
subject, together with plans for a suitable investigation, were formally 
laid before the Director, with the object of briiiging the matter before 
Congress in order to secure the necessary appropriations to carry on 
the work. 

The question of the relative fuel value of dilferent coals is one of 
great importance to all users of coals, and on this account alone the sub 
ject is one that should command the attention of the (lovernment; but 
aside from this, the Government has a direct pecuniary interest in know- 
ing the value of diiferent coals purchased for its own us^. This was 
appreciated as long ago as 1841, when an appropriation was made to 
enable a series of experiments to be made to determine the steaming 
power of various coals furnished for the iNlavy. 

The examination carried on under tlu^ i»rovisions of this appropriation 



DEPARTMENT OV MHTALHIiiGY AND ECONOMIC GEOLOGY. 247 

for the Navy by I'rof. W. 11. Johnson, fioni IS 11 to 1844, was the first at- 
tempt to systematically in\esti!;ate American coals. 

During the years 187!>, 1880, 1881, and 1882 a series of experiments 
to determine the fuel vahie of various materials furnished to the U. S. 
Army w^is carried on by the (iuartermaster-(Jeneral of the Army, Gen 
eral ]\r. (/. IVIeigs, which included matiy Am(Mi<;an (;oals. 

liesides these two systematic investigations a- few exajninations of 
coals from restrict(Ml areas have been made from time to time by the 
Government, especially by enginiM^-s in the Navy. Many of these 
tests, however, were undertaken to determine tlie eiliciency of boilers, 
and are only incidentally tests of (;oal. 

Aside from these investigations by the Government scarcely any- 
thing hiis been done in this line, although occasionally boiler tests have 
been made by private parties. While, these results are interesting aiul 
of use, yet the conditions of tlui tests were so variable that the results 
can not possibly be connected so as to give relative results of any ac- 
curacy, and therefore can not be use(l to determine the relative fuel 
value of the coals tested. 

The experinu'uts by I'lolessor Johnson end)ra<;ed very careful and 
elaborate tests of the steaming power of the (;oals, together with chem- 
ical analyses and some Jew other tests. (Jonsidering the time when it 
was made and the condition ofe\[>e!imcntal sciem;e at that period, this 
examination was a remarkably thorougli and comi)let(! one, and the re- 
sults obtained were of great Aalue to the Navy. 

The experiments by (Jeneral Meigs were restricted to the determina- 
tion of the fuel value of the. materials tested as com[)ared with the 
standard of the Army — a cord of oak wood — and can not be consid- 
ered as a systematic investigation of coal, so that. r(>a.lly the only com- 
jdete examination of American coals is that of Ti-ofessor' Johnson, ami 
for want of better a.nd more recent (Igiires it is still tlnr standard of 
reference. 

The number of coals upon the market at that tiim^ was very small, 
and his series em bra,ced oidy forty one mines, of which six were foreign. 
The thirty-five Americ;in coals were about e<pially divided between the 
Pennsylvania anthiacite, the Pennsylvania and Maryland bituminous, 
and the Richmond, Va., coals, only two Western coals being available. 
Since that time the vast area of coal country, extending from Titts- 
burgh, Pa , to Birmingham, Ala., through the States of Pennsylva,nia, 
Maryland, West Virginia, Virginia, Kxuitucky, Tennessee, Georgia, and 
Alabama, the middle basin of Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, and a con- 
siderable number of coals west of the Mississippi lliver have been de- 
veloped and are activc^ly worked, so that 10(),lM)(),'J!ir> gross tons of coal 
were mined in this country in 1881, as against less than 2,000,000 gross 
tons in 1810. 

Aside from this lai'ge mass of new material requiiing investigation 
the ujethods of experimental scienci^ have greatly adva,iu;ed sin(;e 1811, 



248 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188f5. 

and results obtained now would have far more application and value 
than those of Professor Johnson. 

The necessity and practical value of a new and complete examina- 
tion of our American coals is evident from several recent articles upon 
the subject, deploring our lack of information, among which may be 
mentioned : 

The Evaporative Power of Bituiuiuous Coals, William Kent, Transactiou Am. Soc. 
Mocli. Eug., Vol. IV, p. 249. 

Present State of the Subject, Heat of Combustion of Coal, B. F. Islierwood, Jonr. 
Franklin Inst. 1884, Vol. cxviii, p. 5. 

Composition and Value of Pennsylvania Anthracite, C. A. Ashbnrnor, Penn. 'Jd 
Geol. Survey, Report of Progress AA, p. XXX. 

Report of Comparitive Merits of Anthracite and Bituminous Coal for Naval Us(>, 
Senate Ex. Doc. 2G, 48th Congress, 2d Sess. 

The Relative Value of Coals to the Consumer, H. M. Chance, Trans. A. I. M. E., Vol 
XIV, p. 19. 

Classification and Composition Pennsylvania Anthracite, C. A. Ashburner, Trans 
A. I. M. E., Vol. XIV, p. 71(5. ' 

Proposed Apparatus for Determining the Heating Power of Different Fuels, Williiim 
Kent, Trans. A. I. M. E., Vol. xiv, p. 727. 

Tlie following extracts from letters to the curator also show the nectl 
of such an investigation. 

Mr. Ashburner, the geologist in charge of the anthracite survey ot 
Penns^dvania, says : 

The subject of the chemical, physical, steaming, etc., properties of American coals 
is one of paramount scientific and practical importance. This question has never 
received the attention, as far as American coals go, that it demands. The workwhieh 
has been done by English and European chemists and physicists in determining the 
true fuel value of coals has given us information in regard to the foreign coals of which 
we are at ]r>rcsent totally ignorant in regard to our native fuels. The work^which was 
done by Johnson was of great value for its day, but I regret to say that, in my opin- 
ion, similar work, which has been engaged in by American investigators since Jolin- 
son's time has added very little of a practical nature to his results. The fuel value 
which is put upon the coals (anthracite) by the trade is almost worthless; in fact it 
is worse than that, it is misleading. 

Prof.' Edward Orton, Geologist of the Ohio Survey, says : 

I am greatly pleased to learn that you are about entering on the very important 
line of work indicated in your letter. I am constantly reminded of the incomplete- 
ness and inaccuracy of our best figures in this connection. 

As a further indication of the practical value of the investigation it 
is only necessary to state that Mr. William Kent, an engineer of large 
experience in and about Pittsburgh, Pa., estimates that |G75,000 are 
lost annually in Allegheny County, Pa., alone from the use of wasteful 
methods of raising steam. This loss occurs in the use of only a little 
over 1 per cent, of the coal production of the country. 

From a scientiflc standpoint the results of such an investigation 
would have even more value than from an economic view. It is a 
source of constant complaint that so little is known upon the subject 
by writers and investigators. 

Such an investigation would be a very large undertaking, such as no 



DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY AND ECONOMIC GEOLOGY. 249 

iiuiividual or eompauy or even State could undertake, and evou if a 
State should undertake to investigate its own coals the results obtained, 
so far from lilling the need, would only the more clearly demonstrate 
the necessity of .including all the coals of the country iu one investiga- 
tion under one central authority. 

In view of the foregoing facts the following plan for a new and com- 
plete Investigation of American coals has been prepared: 

(1) Each coal furnished for investigation to be submitted to a pre- 
liminary examination, both in the laboratory and practically, to deter- 
mine its relationships and affinities. 

(2) The coals to be divided into several classes according to the re- 
sults of this examination, especially as regards the volatile matter con- 
tained. 

(3) Each coal to be submitted to a series of tests on a practical scale 
to determine its fuel value. 

(4) An examination to be made to determine the manner of combina- 
tion of the chemical elements in the coals. 

(1) In the preliminary examination it is designed to include nearly all 
the coals of the country, but the results of this examination will un- 
doubtedly show so much similarity that in many cases a single coal can 
be selected for further examination which shall fairly represent several. 

(2) It is essential to divide the coals into classes iu order to prescribe 
the conditions of the practical tests, which should manifestly be differ- 
ent for a hard dry anthracite containing only (5 to 8 per cent, of volatile 
matter, from those of a soft bituminous coal with 30 per cent, or more, 
of volatile matter. 

(3) The determination of the fuel value of the coals is the prime aim 
and object of the investigation. 

To accomplish this end it is proposed to subject the coal to combus- 
tion on a practical scale, under a boiler, or rather boilers, provided with 
suitable ap[)licances' for controlling the conditions of the combustion, 
measuring the work accomplished by the iwunds of water evaporated 
by one [)ound of coal. 

In order that the results obtained shall be of any practical value it 
is absolutely necessary that they should be strictly comparable. Hav- 
ing the coal divided into classes it is necessary, in order to obtain com- 
parable results, to test each of a given class under as nearly as possible 
the same conditions. If now the investigation is limited to a single set 
of conditions for each cla>s of coals, as was done by Professor Johnson, 
then the practical application of the results will also be limited to the 
same or similar conditions, and should tliey be applied to different con- 
ditions would surely lead to false results. Hence it is proposed to 
adopt several sets of conditions for each class of coals. Again, asmgle 
experiment will not giv(! a satisfactory or true result, and it becomes 
necessary to make several tests uinUu' each set of conditions. So that, 
filially, iu order loobtain thoroughly satisfactory results, each coal should 



250 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

be subjectetl to not less tliaii thirty tests. As at least one day will be con- 
sumed by each test it is plainly evident that several boilers will be re- 
quired for the investigation in order to bring it to completion within a 
reasonable time, and under the most ftivorable circumstances the practi- 
cal testing of a single coal will probably occupy a week. 

^4) In the present state of our knowledge we know absolutely nothing 
of the chemical constitution of coals, and the investigation in this direc- 
tion will be on entirely new grounds. The work will be confined totlie 
laboratory, and will require much patient labor. 

The combustible portion of coal consists essentially of carbon, hydro- 
gen, and oxygen, with small amounts of other elements, especially 
sulphur and nitrogen. In the ordinary methods of chemical examination 
of coal there are two methods followed. In one we determine the amounts 
of volatile matter containing nearly all the hydrogen and oxygen with 
some carbon, and the coke, consisting of carbon with only a very 
small amount of hydrogen and oxygen, left after heating. In the other 
we determine the percentages of each element. Now, while results 
obtained in this way have some value, yet they show us nothing of the 
condition of the elements in the coal itself, as whether or not any of the 
carbon exists in the free state in the coal, whether the volatile portion 
exists as such already formed in the coal, or whether it is produced 
from the decomposition of other combinations in the coal which are 
broken up by the heat. 

By the determination of the heating power of the coals of the whole 
country, results will be obtained which will be of inestimable value to 
every large consumer of coal, as by them he can readily ascertain which 
coal at his command is really the cheapest, which may or may not be 
the one that costs the least money. 

Testing under several sets of conditions, besides allowing a much 
wider field of application, will also show the error of using methods of 
combustion which are not suited to the coal used. 

The results of the chemical examination will have wide application 
in certain industries, such as the manufacture of illuminating gas, and 
the production of coke for metallurgical purposes, while they would also 
throw much light upon the question of gas in mines, which would give 
them an added value from the question of human life involved. 

A careful estimate of the number of coals that it would be desirable 
to test, places it between 200 and 250. Under the most favorable cir- 
cumstances these would require between five and six years for thorough 
examination. 

This estimate is based upon the use of six boilers of about 20 horse- 
power, properly erected with the necessary attachments for controlling 
and observing the combustion, put up in a suitable building that has 
railway communication. 

There also will be required a biboratory for the chemical and phys- 
ical work, ])rovided with a large amount of special ap[)aratus. 



DEPARTMENT OF METALLHRav AND ECONOMTO GF.OEOGY. 251 

About 1,500 pounds of coal will be required for oaeh test, so tliat at 
least 20 tons of each coal will be required for a thorough examination. 
The samples of coal should be furnished by the mining companies or 
oth«r parties interested. 

To properly inaugurate the investigation would require an api)ropri 
atiou of at least $20,000. 

The total number of specimens in the department is about 48,000. Of 
these 17,000 have been placed in the exhibition series, (>, 145 have been 
assigned to the reserve series, 1,50.'} to the duplicate series, and twenty- 
one boxes of duplicate material have been placed on general storage, 
besides the specimens definitely assigned to the reserve series, tliere is 
yet a largo mass of unorganized material that for the present and for 
sometime to come must i)e classed in the reserve series. 

As the material of this department liecomes more tluu'oughly organ- 
ized, both the richness and the deficiencies of the collections that formed 
the basis of its inauguration become more and more apparent. 

The collections illustrating the mineral wealth of our own country 
are full and complete, as nt^arly every prominent mining locality is well 
represented, so that the colle(;tions show very comjjletely where and to 
what extent valuable deposits have already beeu found or may be 
looked for; but of the nature of the ores and the methods of occur- 
rence in various localities, and of the processes of mining and prepara- 
tion of the material, the illustrations are very meager and incomplete. 

The curator has made many attempts by correspondence to enlist the 
aid of friends engaged in mining, and \\ hile these efforts have frequently 
resulted in much valuable material being gathered, yet despite the 
utmost care in describing what is wanted, and an apparent willingness 
in the parties addressed to take a little trouble in the matter, it has 
been very difficult indeed to gather such systematic collections as ai'e 
needed. 

The department is already tolerably well supplied with large and 
showy specimens, an<l is abuiulantly supplied with the ordinary run of 
museum specimens; but what is needed are systematic collections, 
which need not necessarily be large, gathered with especial reference 
to showing the nature, the methods of occurrence of the various ores 
in different regions, to illustniting the methods of mining pursued, and 
to showing the method of in-e])aring the ores for smelting. Now, most 
mining engineers have not the time to devote to making these collec- 
tions as they should be nuule, for to do the work i)roperly requires con- 
siderable time and exertion ; so that in order to get just what we want 
it is absolutely essential to make it an object for some one to do the 
work. 

The original collections illustrating the utilization of the mineral re 
sources of the country, consisted for the most part of elaborate and 
liighly wrought samples of the finished |)r()du<;t, showing little or noth- 
ing of tlir nietliodsor i)i(Mluction ; so thai t!!(M'<)llections taken togetluT 



252 RBPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

show tlio begiiming- aud end very profusely, but leave a tremendous void 
in the middle. The collections gathered for the New Orleans Exposi- 
tion were mainly designed to fill this gap, aud a great deal was accom- 
plished, but much more remains to be done. The same difficulties as 
to volunteer collections are encountered here as in the case of the ores, 
but in a greater degree, although there are one or two exceptions to 
the general rule, and in a few cases very complete and valuable collec- 
tions have been sent l)y practicing metallurgists. 

The success of the department iu employing special collectors for the 
New Orleans Exposition was such as to convince the curator that a very 
small outlay, to be expended in making a few collections each year, 
would yield an enormous return to the Museum. It is earnestly hoped 
that arrangements can soon be made whereby a small sum may be an- 
nually available for the purpose of increasing the collections made at 
that time. There are young men graduating every year from our tech- 
nical schools, who, for the sake of visiting mines and works under the 
auspices of tlie Smithsonian Institution, would be only too willing to 
devote a portion or all of their summer vacations to this purpose, the 
Museum beiug called on to pay only the actual expenses. This was 
the plan followed in making the New Orleans Exposition collections, 
and much very valuable material was gathered. 

The clerical work of the department has been ably performed during 
the whole year by Mr. W. H. Newhall. 



PA^RT III. 



PAPERS DESCRIBING AND ILLUSTRATING THI^] CULLECITONS IN THE 
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



I, The Meteorite Collection in the JSTational Museum; a Catalogue of 
Meteorites represented November 1, 18SG. By F. W. Clarke. 
IT. The Gem Collection. By George F. Kunz. 

III. The Collection of Building and Ornamental Stones; a Hand book 

and Catalogue. By George P. Merrill. 

IV. The Collection of Textiles; List of Fibers and Fabrics. By lluFUS 

W. Deering. 
V. Instructions for Preparing Microscopical Mounts of Vegetable 

Textile Fibers. By Komyn IIitohcock. 
VI. Instructions for Collecting Skins of Mammals, for Study or Monnt- 
iug. By William T. Hornaday. 

253 



THE METEORITE COLLECTION IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM; A 
CATALOGUE OF METEORITES REPRESENTED NOVEMBER 1, VM. 



By F. W. Clarke. 



The following catalogue has been prepared mainly to facilitate ex- 
changes and to aid in the upbuilding of the collection. In aiUlition to 
the usual information as to title, date of fall, and weight of sj)ecimen, it 
has been thought well to give the source from which each exami)le was 
obtained; and it maybe interesting to note that the meteorites ac- 
credited to Dr. J. Berrien Lindsley were mainly received by him from 
the late Dr. J. Lawrence Smith. In the catalogue of the Shepard col- 
lection, now on deposit in the Museum, the arrangement of Professor 
Shepard himself has been followed without change. Including the 
Shepard meteorites, over L'OO falls are now on exhibition, giving the 
entire collection a very respectable place among the larger collections 
of the world. The Tucson iron is unique, and therefore a cut of it is 
inserted. 

METEORIC IKONS. 

1. ScKiiiA, Oswej^o County, N. Y. Fouiul about iy;54. Fnignient, 'J.15 gramniL'H. By 

excliango froui S. C. H. Bailey. 

2. B.URi.iNGTON, Otsego County, N. Y. Ploughed up ])reviou8 to 1.^10. Weight of 

specimen, 7().87 grammes. By exchange from Prof. C. U. Shepard. 
.3. LoCKPOUT, Niagara County, N. Y. Ploughed uj) earlier tbau 1845. Slice weigh- 
ing l."j.5 grammes. By exchange from the cabinet of Yale College. 

4. Jenny's Creek, Wayne County, W. Va. Found in 1884. Several small frag- 

ments, 25. r> 3rauimes in all; largest fragment, 1.5.3 grammes. By exchange 
from G. F. Kunz. 

5. Staunton, Augusta County, Va. — 

A. From mass described by Mallet, a slice weighing 145 grannnes. By exchange 
from Ward and irowell. 

B. From the "Fifth" mass described by Kuu/, four fragments weighing in all 
9.H() grammes. By exchange from G. F. Kunz. 

6. KocKiNUiiAM County, Va. Found earlier than 18(;3. Weight of specimen .58.8 

grammes. By exchange from the cabinet of Harvard University. 

7. Jewell Hill, Madison County, N. C. 91 grammes. Gift of J. Berrien Lindsley. 

8. Kukf's Mountain, Lexington County, S. C. Fragment, 9.7 grammes. By ox- 

change from Prof. C. U. Shepard. 

9. Lexington County, S. C. Described in 1881. 65 grammes. By exchange from 

Prof. C. U. Shepard. 

255 



256 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

10. Dalton, Wliitfioltl County, Ga. Found in 1879. The mass described by Shopard. 

36.4 girammos. By exchange from Prof. C. U. Shepard. 

11. LosiTOWN, ©herokeo County, Ga. PIcuglied ui) in 1868. Fragment, 6.05 grammes. 

liy cxchaage from Prof. C. BT. Shepard. 

12. Putnam Coltxty, Ga. Found in 1839. 328 grammes. Gift of J. Eerrien 

Lindsley. 

13. Chulafinek, Cleberuo County, Ala. Ploughed up in 1873. Fragment, 8.6 

grammes. By exchange from B. Stiirtz. 

14. AuBUKN, Macoa County, Ala. Ploughed up previous to 1809. 28.8 grammes. 

By eschaugo from Prof. C. U. Shepard. 

15. Cocke County, Tenn. Described in 1840. Fragment, 7.24 grammes. By ex- 

change from Ward and Hawell. 

16. Badij's Mill, Green Counfcy, Tenu. Ploughed up earlier than 1842. Weight of 

specimen, 38.4 grammes. By exchange from the cabinet of Harvard University. 

17. Tazewell, Claiborne County, Tenn. Ploughed up in 1853. 152 grammes. 

Gift of J. Berrien Lindsley. 

18. Carthage, Smith County, Tenn. Found about 1844. Weight of specimen, 05 

grammes. By exchange from cabinet of Harvard University. 

19. COOPEKTOWN, Robertson County, Tenn. Found in 1800. Section, measuring 16 

centimeters by 10 centimeters, and weighing 033 grammes. Gift of D. Crockett, 
through J. Berrien Lindsley. 

20. Muufreesboko, Rutherford County, Tenn. Found about l847-'48. Weight of 

specimen. 57.5 grammes. By exchange from cabinet of Harvard University. 

21. Tennessee. The " Lea iron " of the P Jiiladelphia Academy of Natural Sciences. 

Slice weighing 221 grammes. By exchange from the Academy of Natural Sci- 
ences. 
2g. Lagrange, Oldham County, Ky. Found in 1860. 223 grammes. Gift of J. Ber- 
rien Lindsley. 

23. Allen County, Ky. Found in 1867. Two specimens, 66.5 and 33.3 grammes, the 

larger one showing a troilite nodule ; also a plaster model of the original mass. 
Received fioin Ward and Howell. 

24. Nelson County, Ky. Ploughed up in 1860. A slice, weighing 370 grammes, 

and a rough surface fragment of 217 grammes. Gift of J. Berrien Lindsley. 

25. Madisonville, Ohio. Found in a prehistoric mound. No. 3 of the Turner Group. 

Fragment, weighing 14.8 grannues. Gift of Peabody Museum of American 
Arclucology. 

26. Walker Township, Kent County, Mich., near Grand Rapids. Found about May 

15, 1883. Nearly entire, w^eight 47,6.50 grammes; with a fac-simile cast to show 
the original state of the iron. Deposited by C. G. Pulcher. 
27'. Trenton, Washington County, Wis. 327 grammes. 

28. Butler, Bates County, Mo. Weight of specimen, 270 grammes. By exchange 

from the ca'-inet of Harvard University. 

29. Cabin Creek, Johnson County, Mo. Seen to fall, March 27, 1886. Fragment, 

weight 33.65 grammes. Gift of J. C. Betten. Also a facsimile model. 

30. Bear Creek (Aeriotopos), Colo. Found in 1866. 27.73 grammes. By exchange 

from the cabinet of Amherst College. 

31. Wichita County, Tex. Described in 1884. Weight of fragment, 20.8 grammes. 

By exchange from Prof. C. U. Shepard. 

32. Red River, Tex. The Gibbs Meteorite. Fragment, 10.6 grammes. By ex- 

change from the cabinet of Harvard University. 

33. Glokikta Mountain, Santa ¥6 County, N. Mex. Found in 1884. 380 grammes. 

By exchange from G. F. Kunz. 

34. Albuquerque, N. Mex. Found about 1884. 2.61 grammes of turnings. Gift of 

L. G. Eakins. 

35. Shingle Springs, El Dorado County, Cal. Found in 1869-70. Weight of speci- 

• men, 32.4 grammes. By exchange from cabinet of Yale College. 



Report of National Museum, 1886 Clarke. 



Plate I. 








The Tucson, Irwin, Ainsa, or Signet Meteorite. 



METEORITE COLLECTION. 257 

3G. Trinity County, Cal. Found about 187r). P,.G5 grammes of clipjiiugs. By ex- 
change from Prof. C. U. Shepard. 

37. IVANPAli, San Bernardino County, Cal. Described in 1880. 70 grammes of turn- 

ings. Gift of State Mining Bureau of California. 

38. Tucson, Ariz. The Signet, Irwin, or Ainsa meteorite. Originally from the 

Sauta Catarina Mountains, but long used in Tucson for an anvil. Weight, 
about G?0 Ivilogrammcs, or 1,400 pounds. Height, '.)7 centimeters; greatest 
width, 124 ceutimeters; width of opening, G8 centimeters; greatest thicknc^ss 
of ring, 4i) ceutimett^rs; least thickness of ring, 4..^) centinu'ttu's. Gift of Dr. 
B. J. D. Irwin, U. S. Army. 
31). Sancha kstate, Coahuila, Mexico. The Couch meteorite. Weight, 10.^,400 
grammes. Gift of ]^ieu(-. Darius N. Couch, U. S. Army. 

40. Sant.a lioSA, Coahuila, Mexico. The iron described by Lupti>n in 188'). Frag- 

ment, weighing 19.3 granunes. (Jift of Prof. N. T. Lupton. 

41. Zacatecas, Mexico. Fragment, 14.8 grammes. Gift of J, Berrien Liudsle^r. 

42. TOLUCA, Mexico. One polished slice, 850 grammes. From Ward and Ilowell in 

exchange. 
One massof Xi(|uipi]co, 31, 208 grammes. Gift of the National Museum of ISIexico. 

43. Chihuahua, Mexico. An uncut mass, to be described. Weight about 1,800 kilo- 

grammes. 

44. San Louis PoTOSi, M<!xico. Fragment, weighing ,'')7.4 grammes. Received among 

the Grant relics. 
4.^). Tocavita, New Granada. Found in 1810. A fragment of less than 1 gramme. 

By exchange from S. C. If. Bailey. 
4G. Santa Catarina, ]>ra/i!. Found in 187.^). Fragment, weighing 82.4 grammes. By 

exchange from the cabiiKM. of Yale College. 

47. Greenland. (Not Ovifak). Weight, ir>.<)!") grammes. By exchange from 8. C. 11. 

Bailey. 

48. RoWTON, Shropshire, England. Fell April 20, 187(5. Weight of specimen, 19. r> 

grammes. By exchange from the British Museum. 

49. Obernkikchen, Sc]iaund>urg-Li]>]>e, (fernuiny. Weight of si)ecimen, l.^»2.5 

grammes. By exchange from the I'.ritish Museum. 

50. SeelXsgen, Brandenburg, Prussia. Weight of s]>ecimen, 104..^> gr.immes. By ex- 

change from B. Stiirtz. 

51. Braunau, Bohemia. |Fell July 14, 1847. Fragment, 7.3"! grammes. By ex- 

change from S. C. H. Bailey. 

52. Arva, Hungary. Describtnl in 1844. 98 grammes. By exchange from S. C. H. 

Bailey. 

53. Cape of Good Hope, Africa. Found in 1793. 28.9.'") grammes. By exchange 

from Prof. C. U. Shepard. 

54. Orange River, South Africa. Weight of specimen, 99.4 grammes. By exchange 

from the cabinet of Amherst College. 

55. Lion River, Great Namaqualand, South Africa. Described in 1S.")3. 34.87 

grammes. By exchange from the cabinet of Amherst College. 
50. Cranbourne, Victoria, Australia. 25.3 grammes of fragments, heated in hydro- 
gen; and a nodule of troilite weighing 71.5 grammes. By exchange from the 
British Museum. 

57. Locality unknown. Partially described by Shepard in 1881. Found without 

record in the old Smitlisonian collection. Specimen nearly entire, weighing 
3,510 grammes. 

58. The Abert Iron. Locality unknown. Found without label, entire, in a collec- 

tion of minerals made by the late Col. .J. J. Abert, and presented to the Museum 
by his son,.). T. Abert. Original weight, 4.^)(i grammes. There now remain in 
the collectidii the main nuiss, \r>() grannnes ; a polished section, 49 grammes. 

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 17 



258 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

STONY IRONS. 

59. EsTHERViLLE, Emmet County, Iowa. Shower fell May 10, 1879. 

Stony fragment, 145 grammes ; fragment sliowing peckhamite, 82 grammes ; two 
small fragments of olivine; seven masses of iron, aggregating 65 grammes. 
Gift of Charles P. Birge. 
Thirty-one small irons, 96 grammes. By exchange from Prof. C. U. Shepard. 
GO. RiTTERSGRiJN, Saxoiiy. Found in 1833. 38 grammes. Gift of Adrian Van Sin- 
deren. 

61. Bkeitenbach, Bohemia. Found in 1861. Weight of specimen, 53.7 grammes. 

By exchange from the British Museum. 

62. Krasnojarsk, Siheria. The "Pallas iron," found in 1749. Fragment, 6.8 

grammes. By exchange from S. C. H. Bailey. 

63. Sierra de Chaco, Vaca Muerta, Desert of Atacama, South America. 449 

grammes. From University of St. Jago, Chili. 

64. Imilac, Desert of Atacama, South America. Specimen weighing 197 grammes, 

and several fragments. Collected hy Lieut. F. M. Gilliss, U. S. Navy. 

METEORIC STONES. 

65. Searsmont, Me. Fell May 21, 1871. Two fragments, 16 grammes. Gift of A. 

C. Hamlin, 

66. ToMHANNOCK Crkek, Ronsselaer County, N. Y. Found in 1863-'64. Thin slice, 

not weighed. By exchange from S. C. II. Bailey. 

67. Drake Creek, Nashville, Tcnn. Fell May 9, 1827. Fragment, 28 grammes. 

By exchange from cahinet of Harvard University. 

68. Castalia, Nash County, N. C. Fell May 14, 1874. Fragment, 19.7 grammes. 

By exchange from cahinet of Ilarvaid University. 

69. Harrison County, lud. Fell March 28, 1859. Fragment, 10.4 grammes. Gift 

of J. Berrien Lindsley. 

70. Rochester, Fulton County, lud. Fell Decemher 21, 1876. Fragment, 2.0 

granmies. By exchange from Prof. C, U. Shepard. 

71. New Concord, Guernsey Couuty, Ohio. Fell May I, 1860. 
Oue stoiie, 197 grammes. Gift of Prof. E. B. Andrews. 

One large fragment, 1,720 grammes. Gift of J. Berrien Lindsley. 

72. Iowa County, Iowa. Fell Fehruar^' 12, 1875. 

One stone, 322 grammes. By exchange from Prof. C. U. Shepard. 
One fragment, 79 grammes. Gift of Prof. J. R. Eastman. 

73. Cape Girardeau, Mo. Fell August 14, 1846. Fragment, 4.35 grammes. By 

exchange from cahinet of Yale College. 

74. Little Piney, Pulaski C\)unty, Mo. Fell Fehruary 13, 1839. Fragment, 2.0 

grammes. By exchange from Prof. C. U. Shepard. 

75. Warrenton, Warren County, Mo. Fell January 3, 1877. Fragment, 10.8 

grammes. By exchange from Prof. C. U. Shepard. 

76. Waconda, Mitchell Couuty, Kaus. Found in 1874. Fragment, 8.0 grammes. 

Gift of G. W. Chapman. 

77. Salt Lake City, Utah. Found in 1869. Fragment, 2.81 grammes. By ex- 

change from cahinet of Yale College. 

78. Tamatlan, Jalisco, Mexico. Fell in Angust, 1879. Fragment, 4.14 grammes. 

By exchange from I'rof. C. U. Shepard. 

79. Utrecht, Netherlands. Fell June 2, 1843. One fragment of 2.7 grammes, and 

25.9 grammes of coarse powder. By exchange from B. Stiirtz. 

80. L'AiGLE, Orue, France. Fell April 26, 1803. Fragment, 56 grammes. By ex- 

change from S. C. H. Bailey. 

81. JuviNAS, Ardeche, France. Fell June 15, 1881. Fragment, 1.82 grammes. By 

exchange from Prof. C. U. Shepard. 



METEORITE COLLECTION. 250 

82. Alfianello, near Brescia, Italy. Fell February 16, 1883. Fragmeut, 61.3 

grammes. By exchange from Ward ami Howell. 

83. Ski, Amt Akershuus, Norway. Fell December 27, 1848. Fragmeut, 0.25 grammes. 

By exchange from Prof. C. U. Sheparil. 

84. Hessle, near U])sala, Sweden. Fell Jamiarj 1, 1869. Stone nearly perfect, 11.2 

grammes. By exchange from S. C. H. Bailey. 

85. Pi:ltl'.sk, Poland. Fell January 30, 1868. Entire stone, 158 grammes. By ex- 

change from Ward and Howell. 
86 Knyaiiinya, Hungary. Fell June 9, 1866. Fragment, 27.8 grammes. By ex- 
change from cabinet of Harvard University. 

87. Mocs, Kolos, Transylvania. Fell February 3, 1882. Entire stone, 95 grammes. 

By exchange from Ward and Howell. 

88. Stannern, Moravia. Fell May 22, 1808. Fragments, 14.0 grammes. By ex- 

change from B. Stiirtz. 

89. Sikkensaare, Tennassilm, Russia. Fell Jnne 28, 1872. Fragment, 48.2 grammes. 

By exchange from li. Stiirtz. 

90. Soko-Ban.ta, Alexinatz, Servia. Fell October 13, 1877. Fragment, 1.75 grammes. 

By exchange from Prof. C. U. Shepard. 

91. Krakhut, ]}enares, India. Fell December 19, 1798. Fr.agment, 0.55 gramme. 

By exchange from Prof. C. U. Shepard. 

92. Dhurmsala, Punjab, India. Fell July 14, 1860. Fragment, 47.5 grammes. By 

exchange from B. Stiirtz. 

93. Chandakapur, Berar, India. Fell June 6, 1838. Fragment, 3.9 grammes. By 

exchange from S. C. H. Bailey. 

94. SiTATHAM, Central Provinces, India. Fell March 4, 1875. Fragment, 13.5 

grammes. By exchange from the British Mnsenm. 

95. Parnallee, Madras, India. Fell February 28, 1857. Fragment, 87 grammes. 

Gift of Prof. C. A. Yonug. 

96. Mdteeka-Nugla, Bhurtpur, India. Fell December 22, 1868. Fragment, 2.8 

grammes. By exchange from the British Museum. 

97. Jhung, Punjab, India. Fell in June, 187:?. Small fragments, 1.22 grammes in 

all. By exchange from Ward and Howell. 

98. Biitsura, Bengal, India. Fell May 12, 1861. Fragment, 11 grammes. By ex- 

change with the British Mnsenm. 

99. Baxdong, Java. Fell December 10, 1871. Fragment, 1.6 grammes. By ex- 

change from Prof. C. U. Shei)ard. 

100. Cold Bokkeveldt, Cape Colony, Africa. Fell October 13, 1838. Fragment, 4.0 

grammes. Gift of United States Consul J. Vorsfeld. 

DOUBTKtjr, METEORITES. 

101. Jeffer.son County, Tenn. Found near New Market Station. Weight, 571 

grammes. Obtained ;it the locality in 1885 by Mr. Ira Sayles, U. S. Geological 
Survey. An iron of peculiar character, not certainly meteoric. 

JDDENDA. 

Ilrin/i'nifi lite caiaJtxinc down to Oclolnr 20, 1888. 

101. We.sTON, Conn. I'dl Deceml>er 14, 1807. FragUKsnt, 17 grammes. By ex- 

change with ,]. R. (Jregory. 

102. (Jrkeni'.kikr C<hinty, W. Va. Inm. I'ragnKMit, 11 grammes. By exchange 

with the P.ritish Mnst^nm. 

103. ("itATioofiA (JoiiNTV, V,.\. Iron. I'ragment, 19.5 grammes. (Jiftof (i. F. Kunz. 

104. Walker Couniv, Ala. Iron. Found in 1832. Fragmeut, 14 grammes. By 

exchauge with Ward and Howell. 



260 REPORT OK NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

105. Crab Orchard Mountains, uear Rockwood. Tenu. Fouud in March, 1887. 

Two slabs, 39.8 aud 34 grammes. Gift of Ward and Howell. 
lOG. Linn County, Iowa Fell February 25, 1847. Fragment, 23.7 grammes. Py 

exchange with G. F. Kunz. 
107. Taney County, Mo. Stony iron. Fragment, 34 grammes. Gift of G. F. Kunz. 
lOS. Missouri. Uudescribed iron. Slab, 245 gramme.:. By exchange with G. F. 

Kunz. Obtained by Kunz from Professor Potter, of Saint Louis. 

109. Fayette County, Tex. Stony iron, found about 1878. Two fragments, 110 and 

137 grammes. Gift of Ward and Howell. 
34. Albuquerque, N. Mex. Iron. Slab, 56 grammes. Gift of Richard Pearce. 
(Glorieta ?) 

110. San Emigdio Mountains, San Bernardino County, Cal. 119 grammes in small 

fragments. Given by Thomas Price to G. P. Merrill, of the U. S. National 
Museum. 

111. Independence County, Ark. Iron. Slab, 309 grammes. By exchange with 

the K. K. Hofmineralien-Cabinet, Vienna. 

112. Angra DOS Reis, Brazil. Fell January, 1879. Fragment, 8.6 grammes. By 

exchange with the National Museum at Rio de Janeiro. 

113. Itapicuru Mirim, Brazil. Fell March, 1879. Fragment, 9.7 grammes. By 

exchange with the National Museum at Rio dp Janeiro. 

114. Macai'o, Rio Grande DO Norte, Brazil. Fell November 11, 1836. Fragment, 

68.5 grammes. By exchange with the National Museum at Rio de Janeiro. 

115. Province OF MiNAS Geraes, Brazil. Fragment, 10.9 grammes. By exchange 

with the National Museum at Rio de Janeiro. 

116. Charsonville, France. Fell November 23, 1810. 54 grammes. By exchange 

with Baron Braun. 

117. Ensisiieim, Elsass, Germany. Fell November 16, 1492. Fragment, 3.5 

grammes. By exchange with J. R. Gregory. 

118. Steinbach, Erzgebirge. Fragment, 2 grammes. By exchange with the K. K. 

Hofmineralien-Cabinet at Vienna. 

119. Bitburg, Prussia. Fragment, 22 grammes. By exchange with J. R. Gregory, 

120. Hainholz, Westphalia. Fragment, 7.5 grammes. By exchange with Baron 

Braun. 
88. Stannern, Moravia. Fell May 22, 1808. Nearly complete stone, 33 grammes. 
By exchange with the K. K. Hofmineralien-Cabinet at Vienna. 

121. Pawlowgrad, Ekaterinoslav, Russia. Fell May 19, 1826. Fragment, 18 

grammes. By exchange with J. R. Gregory. 
128. Brahin, Minsk, Russia. Fragment, 14 grammes. By exchange with J. R. 
Gregory. 

123. Taborskoje Selo, Russia. Fell August 30, 1887. 161 grammes. By exchange 

with J. V. Siemaschko. 

124. Mikenskoi, Grosnja, Caucasus, Russia. Fell June 28, 1861. Fragment, 4.5 

grammes. By exchange with Baron Braun. 

125. Djati Pengilon, Java. Fell March 19, 1884. 469 grammes. Gift of the Gov- 

ernment of the Netherlands East Indies. 

126. Yarra Yarra River, Australia (Cranbourne ?). Fragment, 15.9 grammes. 

By exchange with J. R. Gregory. 

127. Fukutomi, Kinejima, Hizen, Japan. Fell March 19, 1882. Fr.agmout, 9.7 

grammes. Gift of Educational Museum at Tokio. 

128. MAfcivifi, HiSLUGARi, Satsuma, Japan. Fell November 10, 1886. Gift of Educa- 

tional Museum at Tokio. 



METEORITE COLLECTION. 



261 



SUPPLEMENT. 

THE SHEPARD COLLECTION OF METEORTES, 

Deposited in the National Museum by Prof. Charles Upham Shepardjjr, 

I.— Mkteoric Irons. 



Date 

of 
liml. 



1400 
1000 
174i> 
1784 

1788 

mvi 

17'J:5 
1797 
1804 
1804 
1807 
1810 
1810 
1814 
1814 
1819 
1829 
18;J4 



Where fouud. 



1836 
18:37 
18:39 
1h:!9 
1840 
184"^ 
1844 
1844 
1845 
1846 
1846 
1847 
1847 
1847 
1847 



1850 
1850 
1850 
1851 
1853 
185:3 
1853 
1854 
1H54 
1854 
1854 
1H54 
1854 
1854 
1H55 
1856 
1856 



Elbogen, BohtMiii.a 

La Caillp, Var, France 

Krasiiojarsk, .Jouisei.sk, Siberia. (The Pallas meteorite) 

Xiqnipilco, Tohica, Mexico 

Tiicunian, Otunipa, Argeutiuc Republic , 

Zacatecas, Mexico 

Cape of Good 1 lope, Africa 

Prambaiiau, Java 

Misteca, Oaxaca, Mexico 

Duraugo, Mexico 

Bitburg, Prussia , 

Brahiu, Minsk, Russia , 

Rasgatii, Tocavita, New Granada 

Lenarto, Scharosch, Hungary 

Red River, Texas 

Burlington, Otsego County, N. Y 

Bohumilitz, Prachin, Bohemia 

Wcriba, Oswego County, N. Y 

FellJuly 31 or August 1, 1835, at Charlotte, Dickson County, 
N.C 



River Brazos, Wichita County, Tex 

Bonanza, Chihuahua, Mexico 

Putnam County, Ga 

Asheville, Buncombe County, N.C 

Cosby's Creek, Cocke County, Tenn 

Babb's Mill, Greene County, Tenn 

Arva, Szlanicza, Hungary 

Carthage, Smith County, Tenu 

Lockport, Niagara County, N. Y 

Tula, Notschai- vo, Russia 

Tucson, Ariz. (TheCarleton iron) 

Murfreesboro, Rutherford County, Tenn 

Chester, S. C 

Rittcrsgriin, Saxony 

Seeliisgen, Brandenburg, Prussia 

Fell July 14, 1847, Braunau, Hauptmannsdorf, Bohemia 

Ruff's Mountain, Lexington County, S. C 

Salt River, Kentucky 

Schwetz, Prussia 

Seneca Falls, Cayuga County, N. Y.. 

Lion River, Namaqualand, South Africa 

Tazewell, Claiborne County, Tenn 

Union County, Ga 

Jewell Hill, Madison County, N.C 

Oktibbeha County, Miss 

Emmetsburg, Md 

Madoc, Ontario, Canada 

Werchne Udinsk, Russia 

Cranbourne, Australia 

Sarepta, Saratov, Russia 

Sanclia Estate, Coahuila, Mexico 

Marshall County, Ky 

Denton County, Te;i , ,. .,,,, 



Weight. 



Grammes. 
4. 45 
1.48 
327. 
688. 
23. 8 
175.3 
182.5 
2.3 
18.5 
45.43 
19. 
5. 13 
15. 
17. 52 
63.7 
1,528.3 
0.95 
61.33 

2.70 
212. 40 
238.6 
68. 55 
2.95 
69. 16 
20. 63 
12:5. 50 
48.1 
33. 2 
(il. 95 
36.84 
5. 88 
115.45 
65. 45 
111.6 
14.5 
5, 461 
51. 56 
10.55 
80.2 
20. 85 
1,94:5.5 
124.5 
31. 85 
1.89 
,5.5 
19. 65 
36.30 
10.6 
3.3 
18:5. 7 
68. 23 
7.97 



262 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

THE SHEPARD COLLECTION OF METEORITES— Continued. 
I.— METEor.ic Ijjoks— Continued. 



Date 

of 
tiud. 



1856 

1856 
1856 
1858 
1858 
1860 
1860 
1860 
1861 
1862 



1863 
1866 
1866 

1867 

1867 

1867^ 

1868^ 

1869 

1872 

1873 

1873 

1874 

1875 

1877 

1879 

1879 

i879 
1879 

1880 
1881 
1883 
1884 



1866 



Where found. 



Orange River, South Africa 

Hainholz, Miudeu, Westphalia 

Iniilac, Atacaiua, Bolivia 

Wayne County, Ohio 

Treutou, Washiugton County, Wis 

Coopertowu, Robertson County, Teun 

Nelson County, Ky 

Lagrange, Oldham County, Ky 

Breitenbach, Saxony 

Vaca Mnerta, Sierra de Chaco, Atacania, Bolivia 

Fell in 1862, Victoria West, Cape Colony 

Southeast Missouri 

Chili 



Bear Creek, Aeriotojios, Colo 

Auburn, Macon County, Ala 

Losttown, Cherokee County, Ga 

Mejilloues, Atacania, South America 

Near Staunton, Augusta County, Va 

Nenntmaunsdorf, Saxon y - 

Chulalinnee, Cleburne County, Ala 

Eisenberg, Altenburg, Saxony 

Butler, Bates County, Mo 

Santa Catarina, Mono do Rocio, Brazil 

Casey County, Ky --. 

Dal tun, Whitfield County, Ga 

Lick Creek, Davidson County, N. C 

Fell May 10, 1879, Estherville, Enimct County, Iowa 

Caiupo del Pucara, Catamarca, New Granada. . - 

Ivanpah, San Bernardino County, Cal 

Lexington, S. C 

"The Smithsonian iron" 

Grand Rapids, M ich 

Glorieta Mountain, Santa Vf County, N. Mex 

East Tennessee. (The iron of the Philadelphia Academy of 

Natural Sciences) 

Bacubirito, Siualoa, Mexico 

Sevier County, Teun Turnings. . 

Ti'iuity County, Cal - 

Chemnitz, Hungary - 

From burned museum at Baltimore 

"The Abert iron" 



Weights. 



Grammes. 
21.41 
12.15 

36. 65 
2.86 
91.46 
327. 83 
58.3 
2, 002. 
16.8 
27. 63 
2.15 
5,6 
4.76 
307. 08 
228. 15 
75.4 

29.8 

1,662. 
15. 15 
54. 
9.7 
391. 
25S. 9 
3. 30 
50, 917. 
9. 72 
3, .575. 
92 

n.75 

3, 992. 

88.3 

34.5 

853. 4 

260. 
171.4 



22. 55 
75.27 
2.73 
1L3 



II. — Terrestrial Irons. (Formerly supposed to be meteoric.) 



1848? 
1850^ 
1870 



Niakornak, Greenland 
Ovif ak, Greenland 



5,7 
18,97 



METEORITE COLLECTION. 

THE SHEPAED COLLECTION OF METEORITES— Continued. 
III.— Meteoric Stones. 



263 



No. 


Diit 


^ of fall. 


1 


Nov. 


1( 


. 1492 


o 


.lulv 


t 


, 1753 


•.i 


Jiilv 


J 


176t; 


4 


July 


24 


, J790 


5 


June 


It; 


. 1794 


6 


Dec. 


i;; 


, 1795 


7 


Mai. 


12 


, 179rt 


8 


Dec. 


19 


179S 


9 


Apr. 


20 


.1803 


10 


Mar. 


15 


is(h; 


11 


Dec. 


14 


1807 


12 


May 


22, 


LS(t8 


13 


Aui;. 




isio 


14 


Nov. 


23 


1810 


15 


Mar. 


12 


1811 


16 


April 15 


1812 


17 


Auj,'. 


5 


1812 


18 


Feb. 


15 


1814 


lU 


June 


13 


1819 


20 


July 


12 


1820 


21 


Juue 


15 


1821 


22 


June 


3 


1822 


23 


Nov. 


30 


1S22 


24 


Jan. 


15 


1824 


25 






1825 


26 


Feb. 


10 


1825 


27 


Seiit. 


14 


1825 


2.S 


May 


19 


1826 


29 


May 


9 


1827 


30 


June 


4 


1828 


31 


May 


,>-( 


1S29 


32 


Auj;. 


14 


lb29 


33 


July 


IS 


is;u 


34 


Juue 


6 


1838 


35 


Oct. 


13 


183,S 


36 


Feb. 


13 


1839 


37 


.fuue 


12, 


1841 


3H 


A],r. 


2C), 


1H42 


39 


.luiie 


4. 


1842 


40 


Mar. 


25, 


1843 


41 


.June 


2 


IS43 


42 


Found ill 


1846 


43 


May 


8, 


1S46 


44 


Feb. 


25, 


1847 


45 


May 


20, 


1848 


46 


Dec. 


27, 


1848 


47 


Oct. 


31, 


1849 


48 


Jan. 


23, 


1S.-.2 


49 


Aiij,^ 


5 


18.55 


50 


F(;b. 


28 


18.57 


51 


Apr. 


15, 


1857 


52 


Oct. 


1 


18.57 


53 


Dec. 


27 


18.57 


54 


Dee. 


'.», 


1858 


55 


Dec. 


24, 


1858 


56 


Mar. 


2s, 


18.59 


57 


May 


1, 


1860 


58 


July 


14. 


1860 


59 


May 


12, 


1861 



Place of fall. 



Weight. 



Eusisheim, Elsilss, Germany -. 

Tabor, Bobeniia — 

Albareto, Modena, Italy _ 

Harbotaii, Laiules, France , 

Siena, Italy , 

Wold (lotta^c, Tliwinji, Yorkshire, England 

Halles, ViHelVaiielie, Fr.ince _ 

i\iaklinl, J ten a res, India 

lj'Ai,i!,l(^, Onu', I'ranee .« 

A la is, (jarde, Fiance 

Wesslon, (Joiiii 

Stan lie rn, Moravia 

Mooieslurt, Tipperary, Ireland _ , 

Cliarsonville, near Orleans, France _ 

Ivnlescliowka, Poltava, Russia _. 

Erxlelieii, Prussia 

Chantonnay, Veiide'e, France _ 

Bachinut, Ekaterinoslav, Russia 

■lonzac, (Miarente-lid'erieure, France ...„ 

Lixna, Witebsk, Russia , 

Ju villas, AitU'cIie, Fjanee 

Anders, Maine-et- Loire, Frainie 

Allahabad, Futtehpur, India 

Reuazzo, Ferrara, Italy ^. 

Mnug, Loiret, France 

Nanjenioy, Md 

Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands 

Pawlograd, Ekaterinoslav, Russia 

Drake Creek, Nashville, Sumner County, Tenn. .. 

Richinoud, Va 

Forsvth, Ga - 

Deal", N.J 

Vouille, near Poitiers, France 

Cliaudakapnr, IJerar, India 

Cold IJokkeveldt, Cai)e Colony 

Little Piney, Pulaski County, Mo 

C bateau Reuard, Loiret, France 

Milena, Warasdin, Croatia 

AuuiiercN, Lozi^re, France 

IJishopville, S. C 

1 1 1 rec III , 1 lolland 

Assail:, India 

Montfiuilone, Macerata, Italy...'. 

liar I ford, Linn County, Iowa 

(Jastine, Me 

Ski, Anit Akershuus, Norway 

Cabarrus County, N. C 

Neilore, Madras^ India 

I'etersburg, liincoln County, Tenn 

Parnall(*e, Madras, India 

Kaba, Iliiugary 

Les Oniies, Yoniie, France 

I'egu (QiKinggoiik), Uritish Burmah 

Anssoii, Hante (iaronne, France 

Molina, Murcia, Sjiain , 

Harrison County, Ind 

New Concord, Guernsey County, Ohio 

Dhuruisala, Punjab, India 

Butsiira, India 

* Fragment. 



Grammes. 
4.3 

2. 45 
1.00 

28.7 
6. 75 

13. 02 
2.0 
7.32 

11. 35 
0.60 

74.37 

25. 70 
1.00 
3.77 
5.95 

30.60 
5.1 
8.6 
0.17 
1. 19 

39.5 
0.72 
2.22 
7.20 
3.27 

31. 22 
1.35 
3.11 
4.18 

3. t)9 
9. 5U 
4.19 

14. .57 
1.05 
9. 72 

7,5. 44 

3.74 

46. 25 

(*) 
1,090.4 
8.8 
6. 75 
0.73 
1,602.35 

C) 

1.00 
343. 6 
2.81 
30. 7 
331. 4K 
0.20 
0.70 
19.65 
20. 1 
3. 67 
5. ()4 
3,311.87 
259. 2 
7.83 



264 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

THE SHEPARD COLLECTION OF METEORITES— Coutimied. 
III. — Meteoric Stones — Coutiuued. 



No. 



GO 
CI 

&2 

(;;{ 

(>4 
05 
(U) 
(17 
(i8 
(i9 
70 
71 
72 



76 

77 
78 
79 

80 
81 

8:? 

84 

80 
87 
88 
89 
90 
91 
92 
9:i 
94 
95 



Date of fall. 



Aug. 8, 1863 
Dec. 7, 1863 
Found 1863-'4 
Miiy 13,1864 
Jan. 19,1S65 
Mar. 26,1865 
Mav 30,1866 
June 9,1866 
Jan. .30,1868 
Feb. 29, 18()8 
Mar. 20,1868 
Dec. 5, 1868 
Jan. 1, 1869 
May 22,1869 
Sept. 19, 1869 
Aug. 18,1870 
May 21,1871 
Dec. 10,1871 
Found 1872 
Aug. 31,1872 
Sept. 23, 1873 
May 14,1874 
Nov. 26,1874 
Feb. 12,1875 
June 28, 1876 
Dec. 21,1876 
Jan. 3, 1877 
Jan. 23,1877 
Oct. 13,1877 
July 15,1878 
Nov. 20,1878 
Jan. 31,1879 
Aug. 17,1879 
Feb. 3,1882 
Aug. 2, 1882 
Feb. 16,1883 



Place of fall. 



Weight. 



Pillistifer, Livland, Russia - 

Tonrinues-la-Grosse, Tiileniout, Belgium ... 
Tonihannock Creek, Rensselaer County, N. Y 

Orgneil, Tarn-et-Garonne, France 

Snpuhee, Sidowra, Gorrnckpur, India 

Claywater, Vernon County, Wis 

St. Mesni in, Aube, France 

Knyaliinya, Hungary : 

I'ultusk, Poland 

Motto-di-Conti, Casale, Italy 

Daniel's Kuil, Gricjualaud, South Africa 

Frankfort, Franklin County, Ala 

Hessle, near Upsala, Sweden 

Cleguerec, Morbihan, France 

Tjabd-Padaug, Java 

Cabeza de Muyo, Murcia, Spain 

Searsuiout, Waldo County, Me 

Bandoug, Java 

Wacouda, Mitchell County, Kans 

Orvinio, Rome, Italy 

Khairpur, India 

Near Castalia, Nash Comity, N. C 

Kcrilis, C6tes-du-Nord, Frauce 

West Liberty, Iowa County, Iowa 

Stiilldalen, Nya Kopparberg, Sweden 

Rochester, Fulton County, lud 

Warrentou, Warren County, Mo 

Cynthiana, Harrison County, Ky 

Soko-Bauja, Servia 

Tieschitz, Moravia 

Rakovka, Tula, Russia 

La B6casse, ludre, Frauce 

Tamatlan, .Jalisco, Mexico 

Mocs (Visa), Kolos, Hungary 

Pavlovka, Saratov, Russia 

Altiauello, Brescia, Italy 



rrammes. 
2.6 
9. 04 
8.74 
9. 62 
4.3 
9. 35 
1..59 
32. 83 
304. 76 
1..53 
4.6 
4.7 
259.8 
.52. 65 
29.1 
13.7 
62. 5 
50, 87 
996. .55 
0.12 
26.75 
0.76 
2.70 
3, 185. 9 
151. 7 
48, 27 
27. 25 
1.77 
15, 98 
27. 00 
23. 50 
5.00 
511.00 
17. 85 
5.61 
29. 54 



IV. — PsEUDO Meteorites. 

1. Ivau-Oedeuburg, Hungary 0.94 

RECAPITULA'TION, SHEPARD COLLECTION. 



Irons, meteoric ... 
I rons, terrestrial . . 
Stones 

Psoudo meteorites 



92 
2 

95 



190 



ADDENDA, SHEPAED COLLECTION. 

r>ringi)ig the catalogue down to Octoher 20, 1888. 

Iron Crkek, Noiii ii Saskatcheavan, British Nortu America, Jron^ 125 grammes, 
Smith LAN I), Ky. Iron, 12,9 grammes, 
Allkx County, Ky, Iron. 713 grammes. 
iNUKPEXDENgij Coui^TY, ArK- Iron, 20 grammes, 



METEORITE COLLECTION. 265 

Mavekick County, Tkx. Irou, 116 grammes. 

Tucson, AmzoNA. The siguet iron. 84.5 grammes. 

TOLUCA, Mexico. Iron. 17,800 grammes. 

Takapaca Desert (IIemalca), Peru. Iron, 84 grammes. 

Santa Catakina, Brazil (altered). Iron. 7,200 grammes. 

Newstead, Scotland. Iron, r>l grammes. 

PonLiTZ, Reuss, Germany. Stone. Fell October ll>, 1811>. O.IO gramme., 

I^icmstadt, BavaIua. Stone. Fell February H», 178.'>. 1 gramme. 

OiJERNKiRCHEX, Cermany. Iroii. 23.1 grammes. 

Agram, Croatia. Iron. Fell May 2(i, 1751. 0.74 gramme. 

Maueiikirchen, Austria. Stone. Fell November 20, 1788. 0.5 gramme. 

Mezo Madarasz, Transylvania. Stone. Fell Sei)tember 4, 1852. 80.8 grammes. 

Island of Oesel, Baltic Sea. Stone. Fell May 11, 1855. 4 grammes. 

Tennassilm, Esthland, Russia. Stone. Fell June 28, 1872. 1 gramme. 

TiMOCHiN, Russia. Stone. Fell March 25, 1807. 15 grammes. 

Gross Liebentiial, near Odessa, Russia. Stone. Fell November 19, 1881. 8 

grammes. 
Assist, Italy. Stone. Fell May 24, ISsC. 2'J grammes. 
LuciGNANO, Siena, Italy. Stone. 3.7 grammes. 

Trenzano, Brescia, Italy. Stone. Fell November 12, 185(). 3.8 grammes. 
CiRGENTi, Sicily. Stone. Fell February 10, 1853. 1.5 grammes. 
Ne.ied, Akabia. Irou. Fell 18t)5. 37 grammes. 
Shytal, India. Stone. Fell August II, 18G3. 1.32 grammes. 
Cronstadt, Okange River Free State, Africa. Stone. Fell November 19, 1877. 

12.5 grammes. 
Yarra Yarra River, Australia. Iron. 21 grammes. (Cranbourne T) 



GEM COLLECTION OF THE V. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



By George F. Kunz, 



The collection ol' geiu.s exhibited by the National IMuseum at the 
Cincinnati and New Orleans Jijxpositions is now on exhibition in the 
]\Inseuin in Washington. This mnch-needed accession, representing a 
small ]>art of the ai)i)ropriation for the World's Fair, promises to be 
one of the most attractive and iustrnctive featnres of the Musenm. 
The large nnmber of visitors, who examined the collection, both at the 
expositions and in its present location, can testifj' to its interesting 
character. Although a mere beginning, it is the most complete public 
collection of gems, in the United States. It is contained in three tlat 
I>late-glass exhibition cases, the gems being neatly marked with printed 
labels, and arranged on velvet pads, with a silk rope border. The 
di\ersity, brilliance, and richness of nature's brightest colors disjjlayed 
render the whole elfect a very attractive and pleasing one. The col- 
lection begins with a suite of glass models of the historical diamonds, 
followed by a series of diamonds in their natural state, among which is 
an interesting octahedron, 18 carats in weight*, and by two smaller, 
though very perfect, octahedra of about 2 carats each. These speci- 
mens are gooil illustrations of the form from South Africa, though of 
little commercial value as gems. One dozen other crystals, from one 
([uarter to 1 carat in weight, complete a representative set of form and 
o(!currence in that legion. Next we have a very neat set of a dozen 
more crystals, small, but choice, principally from India and Brazil, for- 
merly belonging to the Mallet collection. One of these is a perfect 
cube, a form peculiar to Brazil, while another is twinned iiarallel to the 
octahedron. Another stone of 1 carat is only half cut, and for compar-' 
ison we have a stone of al)()ut the same weight completely cut. 

* (iciiis tiro <;oiH'rally boiiglit and Hold by tlie w()ij;bt., called a carat, which is ('(jual 
lo al)oiit :J. 1(58 troy j^rains. It is usually divided, however, into 4 diamond or pearl 
j^rains, each of whicii is .7;):iir» of a trin; <;rain. Fractions of a carat are also known 
as fourth, ei^htlis, sixteentlis, thirty-secon<ls, and sixty-fourths. The weight ol" the 
carat formerly differed sliglitly in <lifferent countries, and this diversity finally led a 
syndicate of l*arisian jewelers, goldsmiths, and gem dealers, in 1871, to propose a 
standard carat. Thiw was subsequently confirmed by an arrangement between the 
diamond morchauts of London, Paris, and Amsterdam, fixing the uniform value of 
the diamond (?) carat at . 205 gramm. 

367 



268 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Among tlie sapiihires, we find a carat oblong stone of dark blue color, 
from the Jenks mine, Macon County, North Carolina, ATliich has yielded a 
few fair sapphires — yellow, violet, and blue — and a few rubies, some of 
the finest of which were in the Leidy collection ; also the first stones found 
here, the dark brown, asteriated sapphires, described in " Transactions 
of the Kew York Academy of Sciences," March, 1883, and two other 
cut stones weighing from 4 to 8 carats. Tliese all show a slight 
bronze play of light on the dome of the cabochon in ordinary light, 
but, under artificial light, they all show well-defined stars, being really 
asteriasor star sapphires, and not cat's eyes, as would seem at first glance. 
There are also two cut stones, light blue and light green, weighing 1 and 
2 carats respectively, M'hich, for light-colored sapphires, are perhaps, 
when cut, brighterthan those from any other locality'. The cnttingof one 
of these gems has given it a remarkable luster. They are found in the 
sluice-boxes at and near Belena, Mont. Following are two broken crys- 
tals of the dark-green sapphires from the quite recent find at the Hills of 
Precious Stones in Siam, beautifully dichroic, being green and blue 
when viewed in different axes. The most showy group among the sap- 
l)hires is a lot of thirteen assorted fancy stones, ranging from one-half 
to 4 carats in size. It includes two oriental amethysts, one oriental 
topaz, two pale rubies, four blue, one light-blue opalescent, one pale 
green, and two white sapphires. An asteria of good blue color, meas- 
uring nearly 1 inch across, a beautiful 2-carat ruby-asteria, and a small 
three-quarter-carat ruby, of fair color, complete the corundum gems. 

The series of spinels is well chosen and varicolored ; it consists of a 
long 2-carat stone of green color, an oblong almaudine-colored stone 
of 3 carats, an inky stone of 1^ carats, a half-carat ruby spinel of fair 
color, a pretty rubicelle of three-quarters of a carat, and a suite of crys- 
tals of the ruby-colored spinel from Ceylon and liurmah. AYc have 
also a cut Alexandrite (so called after the Czar Alexander I), from the 
original Russian locality. This is of fair color; but the wonderful 
Ceylonese gems of recent years have really given to this j^henomenal 
variety of chrysoberyl, which changes from green to red under artifi- 
cial light, its i)resent high rank among gems. There is a G-carat 
typical chrysoberyl (the chrysolite of the jeweler), finely cut, truly, as 
the name indicates, golden beryl; and a dark green one of that shade, 
repeatedly sold as Alexandrite, though it does not change color by ar- 
tificial light; also a rich yellowish-brown specimen of 1^ carats. A set 
of seven rough fragments from Brazil is instructive by comparison. 

Among the beryls, we have a flawed emerald of 10 carats, that well 
illustrates the typical color, as does a pear-shaped drop of about the 
same weight and quality. Besides these, there is a flawed stone of 
about the same weight, but much lighter in color, from Bogota. There 
isalso a crystal, that has been in the Institution for many years, labeled 
from New Mexico. An emerald crystal, 1,4 inches long, one of a series 
of minerals brought by Prof. J. D, Dana from Peru when with the 



GEM COLLECTION. 269 

Wilkes Exploriug Expedition, is historically iiiterestiii«?. It was pur- 
chased by him in the streets of Callao. In the same series are two 
"ood cut beryls, one carats in weight, of a light-green color, another 
1-carat light blue, both from Royalston Mass.; and perhaps the finest 
specimen ever found at the Portland (Connecticut) (quarries, 15 carats 
in weight, and of such a rich, deep sea-blue coloi-, as almost to rival in 
splendor the matchless 5-carat Brazilian blue stone, that is in the same 
case. 

A fine blue beryl from the ]\Ionrm»- Mountains, Ireland, is interesting 
for its locality and deep color. 8toneham, Me., has contributed a 2-carat 
white cut stone and a similar fragment ; while Siberia is represented by 
a common white stone of about (> carats weight, and a rich yellow one 
of 2 carats. 

Next comes a series of the emerald-green and greenish-yellow varie- 
ties of spodumene (Hiddenite), embracing crystals and fragments, and 
five cut stones, the latter weighing from a quarter to three-quarters of 
a carat, and varying in color from green to greenish-yellow, from Stony 
Point, N. C; also a quarter-carat light yellow, and a 1-carat golden- 
yellow spodumene of the variety resembling chrysoberyl, described by 
Pisani, of Paris, in "Comj)tes Eendus" for 1877, from Brazil. The 
mountain-green cut euclase of 2 carats weight, from Brazil, and the 
white cut phenakiteof 3 carats, from Russia, are of rare occurrence, 
though the latter has recently been found in two localities in Colorado. 

The tourmalines include a dark-red gem (rubellite) of carats' weight, 
and of good color; a dark-green one of the same weight; two light-red 
ones of one-half carat each, and a fine dark-blue one (indicolite) of three- 
eighths carat; alight sea-green one, of the same weight as the indicolite, 
and four long bottle-green (called Brazilian emeralds) of 2 carats each; 
two olive-green stones of 2 carats each, and four sections of green crys- 
tals, that have red centers. This difference of color between the outer 
and inner crystals is peculiar to tourmalines, as many as three colors 
being found in one crystal. All these are from Brazil. The well-known 
domestic localities are represented by an oblong, table-cut, light-green 
stone from Paris, Oxford County, Me., that once held a conspicuous 
place in the collection of Dr. Joseph Leidy, which, unfortunately, had 
to be scattered. From Auburn, Me., a locality quite recently discov- 
ered, we have a 1-carat blue indicolite, two lavender-colored stones of 1 i 
and 2 carats each, a light emerald-green stone of three-quarters of a 
carat, as handsome as an emerald by artificial light, and a 2-carat green 
one of the same tint as the Leidy stone; also a suite of loose crystals of 
various colors. The neighboring 2-carat yellow and 3-carat yellowish- 
brown cut stones are from Ceylon. The fine 2-inch grass-green crystal 
and 1-inch bluish-green crystal are also part of the treasure brought 
home by Professor Dana from the Wilkes expedition of 1838-1842. 

A 0-carat blue and a 2-carat sherry-colored toj)az from Siberia are ex- 
ceedingly brilliant; but the domestic reputation is well sustained by the 



270 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

white 15 carat cut stone from Pike's Peak, Colo., wliicli is not surj)assed 
in beauty by the brilliant white 4-carat (Minas Novas) from Minas- 
Geraes, in Brazil. A G-carat orange-yellow stone, also from Minas- 
GeraeSjis quite characteristic of the topaz, which is most commonly used 
in jewelry. A series of two cut stones, of 5 and 8 carats respectively, 
and a number of crystal fragments show the effect, which heat has upon 
some varieties of topaz. These si)ecimens vary in color from dark pink 
to white, according to the degree of calorification. 

Among the garnets are ten flat, brilliant-cut stones, one carbuncle, 
two long table-cut stones, and six rosecutfrom Bohemia; six Tyrolese 
red garnets, three essonites (usually sold as hyacinths by the jewelers), 
4 carats, 1| and one-quarter carat from Ceylon, six small brilliant-cut 
stones from Cape Colony, and'a series, cut and uncut, from New Mexico, 
which furnishes the finest garnets in the world in point of color. In 
addition to these, we notice a 1-carat and a 1^-carat demantoid (green 
garnet or Uralian emerald) from Bobrowska Eiver, Syssersk, in the 
Urals, and a brownish-green 2-carat stone from the same locality. 

From New Mexico we have a fine yellowish-green jieridot or olivine, 
of iii carats, called chrysolite by the mineralogist, but not by the jew- 
eler; also a number of pebbles of the same, known as "Job's Tears" 
locally (from their pitted, tear-like appearance). The Orient is repre- 
sented by a beautiful olive-green cut stone of about 18 carats weight. 

From the zircons or jargons we may single out for remark a number 
of small cut stones, steel-blue, yellowish-brown, yellow, and white, the 
latter color being often produced by heating. Stones of this kind were 
at one time used for iucrusting watches, which were then sold as diamond- 
incrusted. Next we observe a fine, rich, hyacinth-colored gem (the true 
hyacinth of the mineralogist), a 2-carat green, a yellow, an orange, and 
a long brownish-green 3-carat stone, all from Ceylon. The 2-carat axi- 
nite, from Dauphiuy, is one of the rarest of gems. A G-carat greenish- 
brown epidote, from the Knappenwand, the well-known locality in 
Tyrol, should be mentioned. 

Here, too, is a one-fourth-carat idocrase from Ala, in Piedmont. This 
mineral, which received the name of vesuvianite, because it is found 
among the formations in the lava at Vesuvius, is sold by the Neapolitan 
jewelers, and used to make the letters I and Y in the manufacture of 
initial or sentimental pieces of jewelry. The same mineral is found at 
Sanford, Me., and other localities here, but rarely in gem form. 

lolite (dichroite, cordierite), or water sapphire {sapJiire-(Veau), as it is 
also called, is here seen in the form of a flat-cut stone of 2 carats' 
weight from Ceylon, and a(;ube one-fourth inch S(|uare from Bodenmais, 
Bavaria. These are not comparable with ouq found at Haddam, Conn., 
that was worn as a charm by the late Dr. Torrey. This stone has 
dichroic jiroperties; if viewed in one direction it appears blue; if in 
another, pure white. 

The Scarat titanite or yellow sphene is from the Tavetschthal, in the 



GEM COLLECTION. 271 

TjTol. This gem shows the pUiy of colors peculiar to the diamoiul. 
Specimens have also been found at Bridgewater Station, Pa. There are 
two long andalusites of 1 and 2 carats' weight, stones which are at times 
so dichroic that they have been ottered in London as Alexaudrites ; 
also a square brilliant cut stone of 1 carat. No stones in this collection 
show the dichroic property to the visitor so perfectly as these, they 
being so cut as to show the red and green colors at once from the same 
point of view. These are from Brazil, where fine green ones are also 
obtained. 

Next in order are four light-green diopsides from De Kalb, N. Y., a 
locality which has yielded 20-cara.t gems, of rich oil-green color, equal to 
the 2^ carat cut-stone from Ala., in Piedmont. 

A small, long, 1-carat kyanite, from Russia, is noteworthy, as is also 
the suite of opals, consisting of two noble cut stones, from Hungary, 
and a polished slab of the light matrix from the same place, beautifully 
mottled with opalescent spots ; a set of over twenty gems, white, yel- 
low, and brown, from (^ueretaro, JNIexico, and two milky opals without 
the play of colors, from Honduras, an inch and an inch and a half long, 
respectively ; three pieces of blue opal, in the impnre brown limonite, 
or ironstone matrix, from the Baricoo River, Queenshuid, Australia, 
termed opaline by the jewelers, and a cut stone from the same locality. 

Of turquoise, we have a bluish-green piece H inches long, cut into a 
flat cabochon stone, from Los (Jerillos, New Mex., a fine suite of the 
uiineral in the matrix, recently brought on by Maj. J. W. Powell, from 
New Mexico, and a set of twenty-four gems from Persia, showing all the 
cbaracteristic gradations of color between blue and green ; a curious 
three quarter-inch cabochon cut stone, and a ]uece 1| inches long in the 
Rjatrix, from Persia, noticeable for the pleasing contrast of the bluish- 
green stone on the background of chocolate color. A handsome suite, 
consisting of a l-inch flat cabochon and seven polislied si)ecimens of 
turquoise in the matrix, from Los Cerillos, New Mex., has lately been 
deposited by Mr. Thomas Donaldson, of Philadelphia. These vary in 
color from the malachite-green to the rich light-blue, and in size from 
1 by 2 l)y 3 inches to .'> by 1 by inches. 

Hematite is exhibited, cut in the form of a ball and in a cut intaglio. 
Dis[)layed near these is a <;ut 1-carat riitile, from Alexander County, 
N. 0. This so closely rcsend>Ies the black diamond in color and luster 
as to have been mistaken for it when first found. A large rhodonite, 
cut en eahochon, is on the same pad with these specimens. 

A dark, almost black, hyi)ersthene irom Norway shows a pleasing 
bronze-like reflection on the dome of the cabochon, while a polished 
slab of lighter color is Jilso quite attractive. Chlorastrolite is repre- 
sented by three small polished pebbles from Isle Jioyale, Lake Superior. 
One of the most instructive of the series is a quantity of gem-gravel 
from Ceylon, containing sapphires of various colors, (;hrysoberyl, zircon, 
quartz, and other stones. 



272 REPORT ON NATIONAL HIUSEUM, 1886. 

A series of the American stone Thomsonite, found as pebbles in the 
Lake Superior region, presents some fine cut stones, with the circles 
from one-fourth to three-fourths of an inch across. A few large, pol- 
ished pieces measure over 1 inch across. Some pebbles of Lintonite, 
a green variety of Thomsonite from the same lo<;ality, are also polished. 

The quartz array is very instructive. It begins with a 2ji-incli Japan- 
ese crystal ball, and an eagle seal 3 inches liigh, of Russian cutting; a 
smaller ball and a combination form of the cube and dodecahedron, 
from Jai>au, half of a Brazilian pebble, polished, a mounted scarf-pin, 
cut in cuboidal form, and a small pendant complete the display of rock 
crystal. Cut citrines, cairngorm, and the so-called smoky, Saxon or 
Spanish topaz, elev^eu of the dark-purple amethysts from Siberia, often 
wrongly called Oriental amethysts, and a set of seven from Brazil show 
all the changes from light pink to dark purple. 

Perhaps the most unique gem of the collection is a piece of amethyst, 
that was found in Haywood County, IST. C, and deposited here by Dv. 
H. S. Lucas. The present form is just such as would be made by a lai>i- 
dary in roughly shaping a stone preliminary to cutting and polishing it. 
It now measures 7 centimeters in length, centimeters in width, 4 centi- 
meters in thickness, and weighs 130.5 grams. It was turtle-shaped when 
found, and was said to have been worked by pre-historic man. This 
shape was unfortunately destroyed by chipping it to its present form. 
It is perfectly transparent, being slightly smoky and pale at one end ; 
it also has a smoky streak in the center. This coloring is i)eculiar to 
the amethj^st, however. A line cut amethyst from Stow, Me., repre- 
sents New England. There are also a three quarter inch yellowish 
quartz cat's-eye from Ceylon, a 3-carat green one from Ilolf, Bavaria, 
and a native Indian necklace from Ceylon, composed of numerous yel- 
lowish quartz cat's-eye beads of about 3 carats each. There has been 
recently added to the collection a handsonu'. Sinniese ring of cat's-eyes 
and chip diamonds. The rich gold setting is a model of exquisite Ori- 
ental workmanship, the reliefs seeming to have been hammered rather 
than engraved. The handsome embossed flowers within the ring can 
not be seen in the case. Its crown is a pyramid, 13 millimeters high 
and 20 millimeters across the base. The base of the pyramid is sur- 
rounded with a row of fourteen cat's-eyes ; above this is a row of chip 
diamonds, while the apex is formed of the largest and finest cat'seye 
of the lot. On each side of the crown, on the shank, is a handsome 
cat's-eye, next in size to the stone which forms the apex. 

We have, then, a beautiful series of the brown quartz cat's-eyes, so- 
called crocidolite cat's-eyes (also called tiger-eyes), in fine slabs, balls, 
buttons, etc., which is really a combination of crocidolite fibers coated 
with quartz. This incasing renders it harder than unaltered crocidolite, 
which is to be seen here together with it. Alongside of these are four 
handsome stones, cut cabochon, and artificially colored pink, purple, 
green and gendarme-blue, after the extraction, by a strong acid, of the 
original coloring matter from the quartz casing. All these are from 



GEM COLLECTION. '27 



St 



South Africa. Superb I'utilated quartz (sagenite, fleche d^aiJtour, Veniis- 
bair-stoue, or Love's arrows), iu the rough and in cut Ibriu, are from 
North Carolina, libodc Jshmd contributes bhick hornblende blades in 
quartz, and green actiuolite in tlie same (the Thetis-hair-stone of Dr. 
Jackson). Tbe actiuolite, when in straight layers in the quartz, occa- 
sionally forms a quartz cat's-eye, if cut across the libers. Tlie Thetis- 
hair-stone from Japan is one of the most interesting and beautiful stones 
in the series of sagenitic quartzes. 

The large pieces of black onyx, chrysoprase, carnelian or sard, and 
sardonyx, and the series of agates, of various colors, numbering over 
one hundred and fifty specimens, are cut into a variety of forms ; the 
fine 3inch square slab of " gold quartz," of the jewelers, is from Grass 
Valley, California. 

Fine aventurine quartz, with spangles of mica in a rich reddish-brown 
quartz, from Russia, vases of which are often worth thousands of dol- 
lars, and a fine green aventurine, called imperial jade by the Chinese, and 
more esteemed by them than any of the true jades, deserve attention. 
The series of fifteen small Indian mochastonesis very attractive; the 
black, moss like markings are relieved by the red s])ots in the gray body 
of the stone, thus presenting a surface beautifnlly diversilied. A by 
4 inch slab of moss-agate attracts nuuth attention, difl'erent people see- 
ing in its markings various bits of fancied scenery. A 2 by 4 inch slab 
and a circular disk, 1 inch in diameter, are good representative pieces 
of the blood stone or heliotrope, so much used in rings and seals. A 
rich, brown, speckled jasper is worthy of notice. The series of quartzes 
closes with three polished pieces of silicified wood. 

The two cut moldavites (Moravian bottle-glass), about 1 inch across, 
arc of rare occurrence. They are transparent, dark-green obsidians 
from Moravia, for which worthless green bottle-glass has sometimes 
been sold. With them are ll>ur sleeve button pieces of opaque obsid- 
ian; two black, two red and black, from the Yellowstone National 
Park. 

The two sun-stones from Norway — the largest 1.^ inches long, the other 
a three-quarter-inch cut cabochon — are indeed fine, but a cut stone 
of the same material from Delaware County, Pennsylvania, the same 
length as the larger spe(;imcn from Norway, is nearly eqnal to them. 
A group of fourteen moonstones, of various sizes, from Ceylon, and two 
from Norway, one a half inches long, the other an inch, make a hand- 
some display, gronped with the sun-stones and smaller labradorites. 
The last-mentioned species is fnlly represented, one polished piece be- 
ing over a foot across, and a nund)er showing the beautiful chatoyant 
colors to perfection. 

Amber — yellow, transparent, aiul containing Hies and other insects — 
is present in the form of cnlf-buttons, a breast-pin and beads; also, in 
larger pieces, with oim^ side, jtolislied, and large " tear-drops," which are 
especially of educational interest. 
H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 14 



274 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM^ 188G. 

A rich, dark-brown cut aragonite, from California, and the beautiful 
green copper-colored Smitlisonite (a zinc ore) from Laurium, Greece, 
demand special notice. One is a cut caboclion 1 inch long and one-half 
inch high, the other an ideal i^iece of the natural mineral. We observe, 
also, a fine i)olished malachite, from Siberia, and a smaller breast-pin 
piece ; also, a dish of the highly-prized dark blue, or, more accurately, 
dark purple, fluorite from Derbyshire, England, where it is familiarly 
known as " Blue John." Vases of this material have often been sold for 
over f 1,000. Two small polished pieces of the Persian lapis-lazuli, and 
a slabs inches across, and one 4 inches, of the white- veined variety from 
the Peruvian Andes, well represent this species. A jade pendant, 3 
inches long and of good color, is one of the sort made in Germany to 
sell in New Zealand, as genuine aboriginal workmanship. Also, a flat 
vase made of a gray Chinese jade, and one of the small bracelets of the 
same material, light-green in color, which are put on the arms of girls 
in early childhood, and allowed to remain there, until the natural growth 
of the arm fixes them so tightly, that they can not be removed over the 
hand. To the jades have recently been added an Alaskan jade labret, 
used by the Alaska Indians as a lip ornament, and a Chinese jade ink- 
stone holder, mounted on a base of carved teak- wood. This is the most 
elaborate jade in the collection; the body of a dragon forming a cell 
for water, the mouth of the cell being a hole in the dragon's back. The 
beast's fore-paws and head rest upon the edge of a rectangular trough, 
which is intended to hold the ink-stone. From this he appears to be 
drinking, while a smaller beast, whose head just appears above the edge 
at the other end of the trough, watches his powerful enemj' with a 
stealthy, malicious fear. 

A rich dark-green flower, inches by 3, chiseled out of serpentine, 
is very pretty, as is a curious, fanciful, turtle-like talc ornament from 
Southern India, the shell of which is beautifully carved into a net- work 
of flowers, and a carved toilet-box of the same material, from the same 
locality. Besides the serpentine flower, there is a handsome turned 
vase, 8 inches high, grayish-green, crossed and recrossed with very 
dark olive-green streaks, giving it a mottled appearance ; also a hand- 
some, polished slab of Williamsite from Texas, Lancaster County, Penn,, 
G by 10 inches, a small flower ornament from San Francisco, a paper- 
weight and two massive specimens of green Serpentine, spotted with 
red, from Cornwall, England, and a polished fancy specimen of Bowenite 
from Rhode Island. Red, white, and mottled Agalmatolite (Chinese 
figure-stone), from China, is interesting. There are three carved 
specimens representing human beings, and another, much more elabo- 
rate, representing a ])arting scene on the sea-shore. The remaining 
specimen of Agalmatolite is a handsomely-carved tray, on which is 
represented a typical oriental scene, with all its wealth of luxuriant 
vegetation. This well-preserved specimen was brought from Japan to 
Holland by the Dutch merchants in the sixteenth or seventeenth 



Gem collection. 275 

centiuy, and was recently deposited in the Museum by Mr. G. Brown 
Goode, the Assistant Secretary. 

One of tlie finest specimens of its kind iiitlie United States is a mag- 
nificent by 4: slab of himaclielle ("fire -marble") of fossil origin, in 
^vhich the color of tbe original shells is so deepened and intensified that 
it rivals the finest fire opal. This comes from the old, exhausted local- 
ity of Carinthia, Austro-Huugary. Of alabaster, we have white, yellow, 
and cinnamon-gray slabs ; of fossil coral, a fine slab from Iowa City. 
The oolite limestone from Bristol, England, is curious j the surface is 
highly polished, presenting a white field flecked with dark red. Beads 
of gypsum satin spar and a 3-inch egg of the same material are from 
Bridgeford, England. A wavj^ slab of polished light-brown barite. 
Laving its surface variegated with dark-brown spots, from Derbyshire, 
England, is rather interesting. A slab of jet from England, one from 
Germany, and another from Colorado are exhibited near two handsome 
carvings in cannel coal from Sim^ison's coal and lead mine in Missouri. 
One of these last represents a scene in a coal mine, and the other a bou- 
quet of flowers. A cannon 12 inches long, mounted on truncheons, and 
an egg-shaped paper-weight, both made of the travertine of Gibraltar, 
and a small light-green slab of polished stalagmite from Baird, Cal., 
are among recent additions, as are ten rough, perforated garnets from 
an ancient grave in Bohemia, and a silver bar-pin, set with bloodstones 
and agates, the last the gift of Messrs. Harris and Shafer, of Washing- 
ton. 

The collection ends with an 8 by 3 slab of catlinite (Indian pipe-stone) 
and a large Indian pipe of the same material, from ('oteau du Prairie, 
Pipestone County, Minn. The head delineated on the slab was carved 
by a Washington sculptor, and came into the Museum with the Abert 
collection, which was given to the Museum. 



Report of National Museum, 1886. — Merrill 



Plate I. 




THE COLLECTION OF BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES IN THE 
U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUxM: A HAND-BOOK AND CATALOGUE. 



By George P. Merrill, Curator, Department Lithology and Physical 

Geology. 



PREFATORY NOTE. 

The coUection of building and ornamental stones in the National Mu- 
seum is made up very largely from materials received from the Centen- 
nial Exposition at Philadelphia in 187G, and from the Tenth Census at 
the close of the investigation of the quarrying industries of the United 
States in 1880. By far the greater part and more systematic portion of 
the collection is from the latter source, and as the late Dr. George W. 
Hawes, then curator of this Department, was also in charge of that 
branch of the census work, it may be said to be due to his eflbrts more 
than to those of any other individual that the collection has been gotten 
together. Having once assumed such proportions as to attract national 
attention, it has been a matter of comparative ease to obtain materials 
from localities that were but poorly, if at all, represented at the time of 
Dr. Hawes' death. The present collection comprises upward of 2,900 
specimens, a large part of which are from quarries in the United States, 
though very many foreign varieties are represented. It is the inten- 
tion to add to it from time to time such new materials as shall be dis- 
covered in this country, and also the principal varieties from foreign 
sources, particular attention being paid to such as are imported into 
the United States. 

In preparing the exhibit the stones have been arranged by States, 
and under States by kind ; this method seeming best adapted to the 
wants of the general public. 

The specimens are as a rule dressed in the form of 4-iuch cubes, the 
various faces of which are finished as follows : Polished in front, drafted 
and pointed on the left side, drafted rock face on the right side, rock 
face behind, and smooth-sanded on the top and bottom. Stones that 
do not polish have the face simply rubbed smooth. When of any other 
size or shape than that of a I-inch cube the approximate size is here 
stated in inches. Each specimen is accompanied by a printed label, 
giving, so far as obtainable, its scientific name, geological age, color, and 

877 



278 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

texture, together with the locality from whence it was obtained and tho 
name of the donor or collector. 

The data for the accompanying hand-book has been likewise in part 
supplied by the Tenth Census, in Vol. x, Report on Building Stones and 
Statistics of Quarrying Industries. So far as possible statements taken 
from this work have been verified by reference to the original schedules 
now on file in this Department. The time that has elapsed since the 
publication of the census rei^ort has, however, enabled me to gather 
much new material, and to supjily many facts there altogether omitted. 
As the work is intended for popular use, it has seemed advisable to go 
into considerable detail regarding the nature and composition of each 
class of rocks, stating, so far as possible, the qualities that render them of 
value for architectural imrposjes. Indeed it may be said that in putting 
the matter in its present shape the curator has been guided largely by the 
character of the requests for information which are being so constantly 
received. These requests are from i)ersons in all stations of life, but 
most largely, as a matter of course, from those who are actively em- 
ployed either in quarrying, building, or dealing in building materials. 
With such it has rarely been found sufilicient to give merely the name 
of a stone submitted or inquired about, but such details as mineral com- 
position, suitableness for any particular purpose, qualities good and 
bad, how it differs from other stone with which it may be brought into 
competition, etc., are almost invariably insisted upon. 

Inasmuch as the market value of a stone is so largely deijendent 
upon the cost of quarrying and dressing, it has been deemed advisable 
to devote a few pages to an explanation or description of the various 
machines, implements, and methods employed in this work. It is to be 
understood that none of these machines are actually on exhibition 
otherwise than by photograi^h or engraving. Only such are described 
as have been found by the writer in actual use in the quarries, or which 
seem suflicieutly promising to merit attention. 

It is doubtless scarcely necessary to state that the results given in 
Table 8 were not obtained from tests applied on these individual speci- 
mens, nor at the Museum. They are compilations from a variety of 
undoubtedly reliable sources, and a part of which have never before 
been published. 

In speaking of any particular stone or group of stones it will be ob- 
served I have not limited myself to a mere description of the sample as 
it appears in the Museum collections, but have gone more into detail re- 
garding the quarries from whence it was obtained, its mode of occurrence, 
use, and the natural facilities for quarrying and transportation. This 
for the reason that, while many an outcrop is capable of furnishing sam- 
ples of excellent quality for purposes of exhibition the stone may b€ 
practically worthless owing to difficulties in the way of quarrying, lad 
of transportation facilities, or distance from market. 

National Museum, July, 1887. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Paut I. 

INTKODUCTOIIY. 



Page. 

A. Historical and geueral 285 

B. The minerals of building stones 293 

C. Physical and chemical properties of rocks .,,,,.. 302 

(1) Dousity and hardness ,. 303 

(2) Structure , 302 

(3) State of aj^gregatiim , , 305 

(4) Eift and grain 306 

(5) Color 306 

(6) Chemical characters 307 

D. Eock classification. (Table) 308 

E. Geological record. (Table) 309 

F. Methods of quarrying and dressing 310 

(1) Joints in rocks and their utility iu quarrying 310 

(2) Granite quarrying 311 

(3) Marble quarrying 311 

(4) Sandstone quarrying 312 

(5) Cutting and dressing 313 

(0) Quarrying and splitting slate 318 

(7) Kinds of finish " 319 

G. Machines and implements used i u stone working 32u 

(1) Drills and drilling machines 320 

(2) Channeling machines 321 

(3) Gadding and gadding machines 324 

(4) Grinding and polishing machines 326 

(5) Lathes and planers 327 

(G) Saws 327 

(7) Sand-blast carving 329 

(8) Hand implements 329 

H. The weathering of building stones 3.31 

(1) Physical agencies iiromoting disintegration 331 

(2) Chemical agencies promoting disintegration 336 

(3) Induration of stone on exposure 339 

(4) Weathering properties of stones of various kinds 340 

I. On the selection of building stone 34.'"> 

(1) General considerations 34.^ 

(2) Precautions to bo observed 347 

(3) Comparative durability of stones of various kinds 349 

K. Methods of protection and preservation 352 

(1) Precautionary methods 352 

(2) Protection by meaua of eolutions ,, 354 

879 



280 TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

Part II. 

THE KOCKS, QUARRIES, AND QUARRY RKGIONS OF THE UNITED STATES. 

Page. 

Steatite. Soapstones ^57 

(1) Coiupo.sitioii and xises of 357 

(2) Soapstones of the various States and Territories 358 

B. Serpentine. Verdantiquo marbles 361 

(1) Composition, origin, and uses 361 

(2) Serpentines of the various States and Territories 362 

C. Gypsum. Alabaster 370 

(1) Composition and uses of 370 

(2) Localities of gypsum in the United States 370 

D. Limestones and dolomites 371 

(1) Chemical composition and origin 371 

(2) Varieties of 371 

(3) Limestones and dolomites. Marbles 374 

(4) Limestones and dolomites. Other than marbles 392 

E. The granites and gneisses 407 

(1) Comi>ositiou and origin 407 

(2) Varieties of granite 408 

(:{) Uses of granite 410 

(4) Granites (and gneisses) of the various States and Territories 411 

F. The pori)hyries. Porphyritic felsites 427 

( 1 ) Composition and origin of the iiorphyries 427 

(2) Varieties of porphyry 427 

(3) Uses of 427 

(4) Porphyries of the various States and Territories 428 

G. Theliparites 429 

(1) Adaptability of Tertiary and jiost-Tertiary rocks to purposes of con- 

struction 429 

(2) Mineral and chemical composition of liparite : 429 

(3) Varieties of liparite 429 

(4) Liparites of the various States and Territories 430 

H. Syenites, trachytes, and phonolites 430 

(1) Definition of syenite 430 

(2) Localities of syenite 430 

(3) Trachytes and phonolites 431 

I. Augite (oustatite hypersthene), plagioclase rocks (trap and greenstone in 

part) 432 

(1) Diabase 432 

(2) Gabbro 4;?7 

(3) Melaphyr 438 

(4) Basalt 438 

K. Amphibole plagioclase rocks (trap and greenstone in part) 439 

(1) Dioriteanddioriteporphyrite 439 

(2) The andesites 440 

L. Schistose or foliated rocks 441 

(1) The gneiss 441 

(2) The schists 441 

M. Fragmeutal rocks 443 

(1) Sandstones, breccias, and conglomerates 443 

(a) Composition iiiid origin 443 

(b) Varieties of 445 

(c) Sandstoues of various Statca and Territories 445 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 281 

Page. 
M. Fragmental rocks — Continued, 

(2) Volcanic fragniental rocks (tiifls) 463 

(a) Definition, origin, and composition 463 

{b) Varieties of 46;! 

(t) Localities and uses of 463 

(3) Argillaceous fragincntal rocks (clay slates) 464 

(a) Composition and structure 464 

{b) Uses of 465 

(c) Slates of various States and Territories 466 

(d) Catliuito or Indian pipe-stone.. 471 

Part III. 

STONES OF OTHER COUNTRIES. 

A. Alabaster 473 

Alabaster of Italy - 473 

B. Serpeutiuons rocks. Verdantique marbles 473 

English serpentine 473 

Italian serpentine 474 

C. Limestone and marbles : 

(1) Limestone and marbles of Africa 475 

(2) Limestonea and marbles of Belgium 476 

(3) Limestone of Bermuda 477 

(4) Limestones and marbles of England 477 

(5) Limestone and marbles of France 478 

(6) Limestone and marbles of Germany and Austria 479 

(7) Limestone and marbles of Italy 480 

(8) Limestone and marbles of Japan 482 

(9) Limestones and marbles of Mexico 482 

(10; Limestones and marbles of Spain and Portugal 483 

D. Gfranitic rocks : 

(1) Egypt 484 

(•2) British provinces of North America 485 

(3) Scotland 485 

E. Quartz porphyries 486 

F. Sandstones: 

( 1 ) Sandstones of the British provinces of North America 486 

(2) Sandstones of Scotland 487 

G. Slates: 

(1) Slatesof Canada 488 

(2) Slates of Great Britain 488 

Part IV. 

APPENDICES. 

Appendix A. The qualities of building stones as shown by their crushing 
strength, weight, ratios of absorption, and chemical com- 
position 489 

(1) Remarks on methods and utility of testing stone 489 

(2) Modulus of elasticity 492 



282 TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

Page, 
Appendix A. The qualities of building stones, etc. — Continued. 

(3) Tables showing strength, weight, and ratios of absoip- 

tion 494 

(4) Tables showing chemical composition 502 

B. Prices of stone and cost of dressing ■ 510 

C. Imports and exports of stone 512 

D. List of stone buildings and date of erection 515 

E. Bibliography of works on .building stone 519 

F. Glossary 521 

G. Catalogue of collections .'..1 526 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



KUIX PAGE TLATES. 

Facing Page 

Plate I. luterior view of luaibl^ quarry at West Kutlaud, Vt 277 

II. Microscopic structures of building stono -• 303 

Fig. 1. Muscovite-biotito grauite (26335*), Hallowell, Me. 

2. Oolitic limestone (379.55*), Litchfield, Graysou County, 

Ky. 

3. WLite marble (25T33*), West Eutlaud, Vt. 

4. Diabase (UGiyj*), Weebawkcu, N..T. 

5. Sandstone (20'^G8*), Potsdam, N. Y. 

0. Sandstone (26077*), Portland, Conn. 

III. Splitting out stone with wedges at Portland, Conn 313 

IV. Figuree showing kinds of finish 319 

1. Rockface. 

2. Pointed. 

3. Pointed. 

4. Tooth chiseled. 
.5. Drove chiseled. 

G. Patent hammered. 

V. Hand implements used in working stone 330 

Fig. 1. Tooth chisel. 

2. Drove chisel. 

3. Chisel for soft stone. 

4. Point. 

5. Hand-drill. 
(5. Chipper. 

7. Pitching tool. 

8. Chisel for granite. 

y. Cliisel for soft stone(marble, etc.). 

10. Face or sledge hammer. 

11. Striking hammer. 

12. Bush or patent hammer. 

13. Ax or ijcau hammer. 

14. Plug and feathers. 
If). Mallet. 

16. Hand hammer. 

17. Grub saw. 

VI. Serpentine quarry, Chester, Pa 362 

VII. Marble regions of western New England 386 

VIII. Granite quarry at Hallowell, Me 417 

IX. Sandstone quarry at Portland, Conn 447 

* The numbers are those of the thin sections in the Museum collections from which 
fche figures were drawn. 

888 



284 LIST OF ILLUSTKATIONS. 

FIGUnES IN THK TEXT. 

Wardwell cbanneliug luachiue — 312 

Drilling holes preparatory to splitting by plug and feather 314 

Eclipse rock drill 321 

Improved quarry bar 3"2i 

Saunders channeling machine 322 

Saunders screw-frame channeling machine 323 

Gang of drills for channeling machine 323 

Diamond channeling machine 324 

Diamond gadder 325 

Ingersoll standard gadder 326 

Plain quarry frame 326 

McDonald stone-cutting machine 328 

Magnified section of fossiliferous limestone (25274), HamiltoHj Ohio 373 

Section of Mount Eolus, Vermont (after Hitchcock) 389 



I^ART I. 

INTRODUOTORY. 
A.— HISTORICAL AND GENERAL. 

The use of any kind of stone for building purposes in tbe United 
States, or indeed in America, of necessity dates fiom a comparatively 
recent period. The early settlers were too poor and too thoroughly oc- 
cupied in the struggle for existence to give a thought to other con- 
structive material than wood, and hence it is not surprising that over 
one hundred years elapsed from tlie time of the landing of the ])ilgrims 
at Plymouth before the first stoin>, structure of importance was erected. 
As, however, wealth increased, towns became cities, and matters assumed 
a more permanent aspect, there naturally arose a demand for a more 
durable and highly ornamental material ; for such, fortunately, the 
early settlers of eastern Massachusetts had not far to look. The first 
stones quarried in this State are thought by Professor Shaler to have 
been the clay slates in the vicinity of Boston. These, however, were 
worked only in a small way and the product used for grave- and mile- 
stones, and a few lintels. 

Granite came into early use for building purposes, probably more on 
account of its ready accessibility than from any desire on the part of the 
people for so refractory a material, the matter of transportation then, as 
now, being an important item in deciding what material was to be used. 

According to Shurtleff* one of the first stone buildings in Boston 
was the house of Deacon John Phillips, which was erected about 1650^ 
and which continued to stand until 1804. It is supposed to have been 
built from granite bowlders found in the immediate vicinity. In 1737 
was built of bowlders of Braintreo granite the old llancock house, since 
torn down, and in 1740-M King's chapel, which is still standing on the 
corner of School and Tremont streets. This last was at the time the 
greatest stone construction ever undertaken in Boston, if not in this 
country. Like those already mentioned, it was built from bowlders, 
and considering the method of cutting emi>loyed (to be noticed later), 
was indeed a remarkable structure. The granite bowlders scattered 
over the commons had been very generally used in Quincy and vicinity 

*' History of Bostou, p. 589. 

285 



286 REPORT ON NATIOKAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

for steps aud foundations for some years previous to this, until at last 
the inhabitants fearing lest the supply should become exhausted, as- 
sembled in town meeting and voted that " no person shall dig or carry 
off" any stone " on the said commons or undivided lands upon any ac- 
count whatever without license from the committee, upon penalty of 
the forfeiture of 10 shillings for every and each cartload so dug and 
carried away." 

It was not, however, until the early part of the present century that 
granite began to be used at all extensively in and about Boston, when 
the material was introduced in considerable quantities by canal from 
Chelmsford,* 30 miles distant. It was from Chelmsford stone that was 
constructed in 1810 the Boston court-house ; in 1814 the New South 
church ; and about the same time the Congregational house on Beacon 
street; the old Parkman house on Bowdoin square ; University hall in 
Cambridge; and in 1818-'19 the first stone block in the city, a portion 
of which is still standing, on Brattle street. In this year also a consider- 
able quantity of the stone was shipped to Savannah, Ga., for the con- 
struction of a church at that place. The greater part of this granite 
was, however, obtained from bowlders, and it was not until the opening 
of quarries at Quincy, in 1825, that the business assumed any great 
importance. From this time the use of granite for building material 
increased in a marked degree, and the history of stone quarrying in 
Massachusetts may properly begin with this date. 

The opening of quarries at Quincy was due very largely to the demand 
for stone for the construction of the Bunker Hill monument. Prior to 
this time it is stated not much thought had been given to the quarries 
of the vicinity, although the business had been carried on in a small 
way by several parties. The quarry at Quincy from whence the stone 
for the monument was taken is stated to have been previously purchased 
by a Mr. Gridley Bryant in 1825 at a cost of $250. This gentleman 
afterwards sold the same to Mr. Amos Lawrence, acting for the monu- 
ment committee. The develoi^ment of this quarry led to the discovery 
of others in the immediate vicinity, and with slight retardations there 
has been a gradual increase ever since. It is stated that in 1837 the 
total amount of stone quarried in the town was 61,590 tons, valued at 
$248,737, in the iiroduction of which some 533 men were employed ; in 
1845 the value of the total product had increased to $324,500, though 
the number of men employed was but 526. In 1855 there appears to 
have been a falling off, since the value of the product for that year was 
but $238,000, and but 324 men furnished with employment. Twenty- 
five years later (1880) the census returns for the towns of Quincy and 
West Quincy show a total of thirty quarries, producing annually not less 
than 723,000 cubic feet of stone, valued at some $226,940, and giving 
emj)loyment to some 820 men. 

* It is stated by Hitchcock, Geol. of Mass., Vol. i, p. 148, that the so-called Chelms- 
ford granite in reality came from Westford and Tyngsborough, in the same State. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 287 

111 1824 a Mr. Bates, of Quincy, went to Sandy Hook, in the adjacent 
town of Gloucester — a town heretofore noted only for its fishery in- 
terests — and opened a granite quarry there. Not long after other (]aar- 
ries were opened at Anisquam, where an extensive industry was carried 
on for some years, though finally abandoned. Quarries were opened at 
Ilockport, just beyond Gloucester, in 1827, and are still in active opera- 
tion, and doing a j)rofitable business, although the first year's experi- 
ence is said to have resulted in a net loss of $15. 

In 1848 the quarries at Bay Yiew were opened, which have since be- 
come the property of the Cape Ann Granite Company, and form now 
one of the best equipped quarries in the country, producing annually 
not less than 480,000 cubic feet of stone, valued in the rough at $250,000. 

Although the Massachusetts quarries were the first systematically 
worked to obtain granite for building purposes, other States were not 
far behind. Thus we are told by Dr. Field* that as early as 1792 
granite quarries were reported to have been opened at Iladdam Xeck, 
in Connecticut, and as many as ninety hands were employed in this and 
other quarries in the vicinity as early as 1819. This material is, how- 
ever, a gneiss rather than a granite, and, splitting readily into slabs, was 
used nearly altogether for curbing and paving, for which purpose it 
brought from 10 to 20 cents per cubic foot. The principal markets for 
the material were E.hode Island and the cities of Boston, New York, 
Albany, and Baltimore. 

The rocky coast and adjacent islands of Maine are competent to 
furnish for many years immense quantities of granitic rock of a color 
and quality not to be excelled. The rare excellence of many of these 
sites for quarries, together witli the ready facilities of transportation 
by water to all the leading cities, early made itself apparent to the 
shrewd and pushing business men of New England, and a very few 
years after tlie commencing of works at Quincy saw similar beginnings 
made at various iioints both on the coast and farther inland. 

The years 1830-',37 appear, for some reason, to have been peculiarly 
prolific in schemes for speculation in this industry. 

It is stated by Northf that during the latter year, out of one hundred 
and thirty-five acts of incorporation granted by the State legislature, 
thirty were for granite companies, three of which were located in Au- 
gusta. One was called the Augusta and New York Granite Company, 
and was for working, rending, transporting, and dealing in granite from 
the Hamlen ledge, situated about 2 miles from the river by way of West- 
ern avenue. Another, named the Augnsta and Philadelphia Granite 
Company, owned the Ballard ledge, a mile and a half from Kennebec 
bridge by way of Northern avenue. A large ]>ortion of tlie granite for 
the state-house, courthouse, and new jail was obtained from this ledge. 

* Centennial address and historical sketches of Middletown, Cromwell, Portlandt 
Chatham, and Middle Haddani. 
t History of Augusta, Me., p. r)82. 



288 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

The other company, called the Augusta Blue Ledge Company, pur- 
chased Hall's ledge, on the east side of the river, near Daniel Hewin's 
house, some 2^ miles from the bridge. 

It is further stated by this same authority* that during the erection 
of the state-house blocks of granite for the colonnade, 21 feet long by 
nearly 4 feet in diameter, were obtained from the "Melvin ledge," in Hal- 
lowell, about 3 miles away. Convenient and abundant as are these 
quarry sites, it seems a little singular that they should not have been 
earlier discovered and worked. In building the Kennebec bridge in 
1797 the piers and abutments were constructed of stone split from drift 
bowlders, and the houses of Capt. William Eobinson, Judge Bridge, and 
Benjamin VVhitwell, built about 1801, had for underpinning granite 
brought at great expense from near Boston, jjrobably Quincy, or per- 
haps Chelmsford. Most of the stone of large dimensions of which the 
old jail was built in 1808 were also, it is stated, obtained with great 
labor from bowlders, though an unsuccessful attempt was made to work 
the Rowell ledge at the time. Some of the top strata were broken off 
by means of wedges driven under the sheets, but the process was labo- 
rious and slow. The first successful attempt to work a ledge in town 
is stated to have been made by Jonathan Matthews on the Thwing 
ledge, in 1825. Powder was not used until the state-house was built, 
and then at first with only one hole, by means of wbich irregular masses 
were thrown out. Later two holes short distances apart were fired 
simultaneously, by means of which long, straight seams were opened. 
These seams were again charged with powder, and thus masses of stone 
of considerable size were moved from the bed to be afterwards broken up 
by wedges. The Frankfort Granite Company, located at the base of 
Mosquito Mountain, began operations in May, 1836, and within the 
next two years took out and sold upwards of $50,000 worth of material. 
What is now the Hallowell Granite Company opened its quarries in 
1838, and during the. first ten years is stated to have sold $500,000 
worth of stone. 

It is stated by Professor Seelyt that the earliest attempts at quarry- 
ing marbles in New England were those of Philo Tomlinson, who began 
operations at Marbledale, in the town of New Milford, Conn., about 
1800. Other quarries were soon after opened, and in 1830 as many as 
fifteen were in active operation within a distance of 3 miles. The prod- 
uct was sent to all parts of the country. Soon after this date compe- 
tition set in from other localities, particularly from Dover, N. Y., and 
Eutland, Vt., and by 1850 the business had proved so unremunerative 
that the last quarry at Marbledale was abandoned. Marble quarries 
and mills were also put in active operation at West Stockbridge, in 
Massachusetts, as early as 1802 or 1803, and these furnished the marble 
for the city hall in New York City. Work was stopped here in 1855, 
owing to competition of Vermont and Italian marbles. 

*0p. cit, p. 582. t Marble Border of New England, p. 27. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 289 

Of the many marble quarries in Vermont, those in East Dorset are 
believed to have been longest worked, Piot'essor Seely statinj? one Isaac 
Underhill began operations here as early as 1785, the product being 
utilized for fire jams, chimney backs, hearths, and lintels. Other quar- 
ries soon opened, and from 1785 to 1841 nine were in o])eration at this 
place. The first marble gravestone ever finished in the State is be- 
lieved to have been the work of Jonas Stewart in 1790. Prior to the 
introduction of Italian and Eutland marble, aljout 1840, the su[)ply 
of the Dorset stone was not equal to the demand. 

At West Rutland, which is now the great marble producing center of 
the country, works were first put in successful operation about 1838. 
At the present time not less than fifteen quarries are in o[)eration, af- 
fording employment altogether to about 2,000 men. 

The first stone quarried and used in Philadelphia is said to have 
been the micaceous and hornblendic gneiss which occurs in inexhaust- 
ible quantities in the immediate vicinity. This was at first used only 
for foundations and rough construction. The first house built within 
the city limits, if not the first in the State, that built in Letitia court by 
order of "William Penn, was constructed on a foundation of this stone 
about the year 1GS2. Tlie Old Swedes church, built in 1098, Independ- 
ence Hall, and numerous other structures are said to have had similar 
foundations. Later, entire walls were made of this material, as in the 
house of John Penn, erected in 1785, and which is still standing. 

The quarrying of marble in Montgomery County, Pa., is said to 
have been commenced by a Mr. Daniel about the time of the Revolutian.* 
This stone seems to have immediately become a favorite for trimming 
purposes, and to have been used in Philadelphia to the almost entire 
exclusion of other material until as late as 1840. During this time many 
fine buildings were constructed from it, as will bo noted later. 

Sandstone quarrying in the United States doubtless began with the 
itinerant working of the extensive beds of Triassic browustone in the 
vicinity of Portland, Conn. It is statedt that the first quarry here was 
opened " where the stone originally rose high and hung shelving over 
the river." The value of the material was early recognized, and it be- 
gan to be utilized for building and for monuments soon after the settle- 
ment of Middletown on the oj^posite side of the stream. The quarries 
were at this time regarded as common property, and were worked as 
occasion demanded both by people in the immediate vicinity and by 
those living at a distance, who carried off the material in scows or boats 
of some sort, nor thought of giving anything as an equivalent. This 
system of free quarrying had assumed such proportions as early as 
1GG5, that on September 4 of that year the citizens of Middletown 
assembled in town meeting and voted " that whoever shall dig or raise 
stone at ye rocks on the east side of the river (now Portland) for aay 

* First Geol. Survey Penna., Vol. 1. 

t Centennial Address and HiHtorical Sketcliea of Middletown, Cromwell, Portland, 
Chatham, and Middle Iladdam, by D. D. Field, 185:5. 

" H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 — ^19 



290 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

without the town, the said digger shall be none but an inhabitant of 
Middletown, and shall be responsible to ye towne twelve pence pr. tunu 
for every tuunof stones that he or they shall digg for any person whoso- 
ever without the towne ; this money to be paid in wheat and pease to 
ye townsmen or their assigns for ye nse of ye towne within six months 
after the transportation of the said stone."* 

How soon the surface rock was exhausted and it became necessary, as 
now, to go below the level of the ground for suitable material is not 
stated, but the quarry thus opened was at length disposed of by the 
town and passed through various hands, among whom the names of 
Shaler & Hall are conspicuous. These parties pursued the business 
vigorously and made a handsome profit. For several years between 
1810 and 1820 some thirty hands were employed for the eight months 
comprising the quarrying season, and from four to six teams. Some 50 
rods south of this quarry another was opened about ] 783, and was 
owned by Messrs. Hulburt & Eoberts. About 1814 this was purchased 
from the heirs of Aaron Hulburt and deeded to Erastus and Silas 
Brainard, who carried on the business conjointly until the death of the 
latter in 1847. The business is carried on under the name of Brainard 
& Oo. to the i>resent time. For some live years after this lirm began 
work they employed but from seven to ten hands and two yoke of oxen. 
In 1819 a quarry was opened north of the Shaler & Hall quarry by the 
firm of Patten & Eussell. It was afterwards known as the Bussell & 
Hall quarry, and finally in 1841 was united with that of Shaler & Hall, 
the firms combining to form the Middlesex Quarry Company. Some years 
later still another opening was made below tlie Brainard quarry near 
the ferry between Portland and Middletown. This also was known as 
the Shaler & Hall quarry ; the original firm by this name having been 
incorporated with the Middlesex Quarry Company. 

The three firms above enumerated continue to monopolize the quarry- 
ing industry at this place. The quarries extend from a point near the 
ferry northward along the river for some three-fourths of a mile, and 
vary in depth from 50 to 150 feet. Their yield of stone of all grades 
during the time of their operation has been roughly estimated at 
4,300,000 cubic feet. The rate of progress is given as follows : In 1850 
the number of men employed at the three quarries was about 900 and 
100 yoke of oxen; thirty vessels being regularly employed to convey the 
quarried material to the markets, each vessel conveying from 75 to 150 
tons and making from twenty to thirty trips each season. Two years 
later the number of workmen regularly employed had increased to 1,200,, 
while 200 more were engaged on contract work. The stone, even at 
this date, had found its way to markets as far west as Milwaukee and 
San Francisco. The census returns for 18S0 showed the total number 
of men employed to be but 925, with 80 yoke of oxen and 55 horses and 
mules. The falling off in numbers may doubtless be considered due to 

'Freestone Qmirries of Portland, Conn., by Prof. J. Johnaonf. N-a,t. Mag., 1853, p. 
268. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 291 

the introduction of machinery and improved methods of working. The 
total product of the three quarries for this year was about 781,600 cubic 
feet, valued at not less than $050,000. A fleet of twenty-five vessels of 
various kinds was regularly employed in transporting this material to 
market. 

The quarrying of slate for roofing purposes is an industry of compar 
atively recent origin in the United States, few of the quarries having 
been operated for a longer period than twenty or thirty years. The 
earliest opened and systematically worked are believed to have been 
those at West Bangor, Pa., whicli date back to 1835. 

The abundance of slate tombstones in many of our older church-yards, 
however, would seem to prove that, for other purposes than roofing 
these stones have been quarried from a much earlier period. It is 
stated, moreover, that as early as 1721 a cargo of 20 tons of split slate 
was brought to Boston from Hangman's Island, in Braintree Bay, which 
may have been used in part for roofing i)urposes ; but the greater part 
of the material for this purpose was imported directly from Wales. It 
is also stated* that slates were quarried at Lancaster, Massachusetts, 
as early as 1750 or 1753, and were in extensive use in Boston soon after 
the close of the Eevolutiou. The old Uaucock house on Beacon street, 
already noted (ante, p. 000), was covered with slate from these quarries, 
as was also the old State House and several other buildings. This 
quarry was worked more or less for fifty years and formed at one time 
quite an imj^ortant industry, but which finally became unprofitable, and 
about 1825 or 1830 the works were discontinued, 7iot to be again started 
till about 1877. 

The first quarry opened in what is now the chief slate-producing re- 
gion of the United States was that of Mr. J. W. Williams, situated 
about a mile northwest of Slatoford, in Pennsylvania. This dates back 
to the year 181 2.t 

The Vermont slate quarries are of still more recent development, work 
not being begun here till 1845, when Hon. Alason Allen began the man- 
ufacture of school slates at Fairhaven.l 

It is interesting to note, in this connection, that during the business 
depression of 187G-'S0 almost the entire product of the American quar- 
ries was exported to England, where it sold for even less than the 
Welsh slates, though necessarily at very small profits. The return of 
more prosperous times, however, created a local demand, and the export 
trade has proportionally decreased, though considerable quantities are 
still sent to the West Indies, South America, England, Germany, and 
even New Zealand and Australia. 

At present not far from $3,328,150 areinv«3sted in the slate quarries 
of the United States, and the value of the annual i>roduct is some 
$1,529,985. 

* Marvin's HiHtoi'y of Lancaster, Mass. 
tRep. D. 3, second Geol. of Penna., p. 85. 
tGeol. of Vt., Vol. II, 18GI, p. 791. 



292 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

B.— THE MINERALS OF BUILDING STONES. 

Rocks are mineral aggregates. As a rule the number of mineral 
species constituting any essential portion of a rock is very small, sel- 
dom exceeding three or four. In common limestone, for instance, the 
only essential constituent is the mineral calcite; granite, en the other 
hand, is almost invariably composed of minerals of at least three inde- 
pendent species. Upon the character of these minerals and the amount 
of their cohesion is dependent, to a very considerable extent, the suita- 
bility or desirability of any stone for architectural purposes. Micro- 
scopic examination will usually result in increasing the apparent num- 
ber of mineral species, and it not infrequently happens that those 
present, even in minute quantities, are of great economic imi)ortanoe. 

In the arrangement here adopted rock-forming minerals are divided 
into four classes: (1) Essential; (2) accessory; (3) original; (4) sec- 
ondar3\ 

(1) The essential minerals are those which form the chief ingredients 
of any rock, and which may be regarded as characteristic of any j^ar- 
ticular variety; e. <;., quartz is an essential constituent of granite; with- 
out the quartz the rock becomes a syenite. 

(2) The accessory minerals are those which, though usually i)resent, 
are of such minor importance that their absence does not materially 
effect the character of the rock; e. g., mica, hornblende, apatite, or 
magnetite, are nearly always present in granite, j^eta rock in which any 
or all of these are lacking may still be classed as a granite. The ac- 
cessory mineral which predominates is called the characterizing acces- 
sory and gives its name to the rock. Thus a biotite granite is one in 
which the accessory mineral biotite prevails. 

(3) The original constituents of a rock are those which formed u[)on 
its tirst consolidation. All the essential constituents arc original, but 
all the original constituents are not necessarily essential. Thus, in 
granite, quartz and orthoclase are both original and essential, while 
beryl and sphene, though original, are not essential. 

(4) Secondary constituents are those which result from subsequent 
changes in a rock, changes due usually to the chemical action of per- 
colating water. Such are the calcite, chalcedony, quartz, and zeolite 
deposits which form in the drusy and amygdaloidal cavities of traps 
and other rocks. 

In the following list is included all those minerals which ordinarily 
occur in such of our rocks as are used for building or ornamental purposes. 
In the first column are given those which compose any apiueciable 
l)art of the rocks, and any one of which may at times become the prin- 
cipal ingredient or characterizing accessory. The second column con- 
tains those which, if present at all, occur only in small quantities; 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



293 



1. 


Qiiuitz. 




2. 


Feldspar, 




Ortlioclase. 




Microcline. 




Albite. 






Auortliito. 






Labradorito 


riagiocla 




Andes! te. 






01igocla.se. 




3. 


Miea. 




Muscovite. 




Biotite. 




Plilogopite. 




Lepidomelaiie or Auuite 


4. 


Auiphibole. 




Tieaiolite. 




Actiiiolite. 




Common liorubleude. 


5. 


Pyroxene. 




Malacolite. 




Sahlite. 




Angite. 




Diallage. 




Enstatite. 




Hyperethene. 


6. 


Olivine. 


7. 


Epidote. 


S. 


Ehieolite. 


9. 


Calcite. 


10. 


Aragonite. 


n. 


Dolomite. 


12 


Oypsniii. 


u. 


Ser[>entine. 


14. 


Talc. 


15. 


Chlorite. 





Carbon. 
Graphite. 



ELEMENTS. 



SULPHIDES. 



Galen ite. 
Sphalerite. 
l'yrit<3. 
Marcasite. 

CHLORIDES. 

Halite (common salt). 

FLUORIDES. 

rinorite (fluor-spar). 

OXIDES. 

Trydimite. 

Hematite (specular iron). 

Menaccanite (titanic iron). 

Magnetite (magnetic iron). 

Chromite (chromic iron). 

Limouit(! (hydrous iron oxide). 

Rutile, 

.VNHYDIiOUS SILICATES. 

Acmite. 

Beryl. 

Danallte. 

Garnet. 

Zircon. 

Zoisite. 

Allaiiite. 

Scapolite. 

Sodalite. 

Tourmaline (shorl). 

Titanite (spheue). 



HYDROUS SILICATES. 



Laumoutite. 

Natrolite. 

Analcite. 

Chabazite. 

Stilbite. 

Kaolin. 



Apatite. 



Ankerito. 
Siderite. 



PHOSPHATES. 



CARBONATES. 



294 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

As these are all fully described in the numerous works ou miueralogy 
it is not deemed necessary to enter into any elaborate discussion of their 
properties here,exceptiufj iu the case of those few which from their abun- 
dance, or froiu other causes, have a i)ronounced effect upon the rockvS ia 
which they occur. 

QUARTZ. — Chemical comimsilion : Pure silica, SiOi. Hardness, 7.* 

This is one of the commonest minerals of the earth's crust, and is an 
essential constituent of granite, gneiss, mica schist, quartz porphyry, 
liparite, quartzite, and ordinary sandstone, occurring iu the form of 
crystals, crystalline grains, and fragments of crystals. It is usually 
easily recognized by its clear, colorless appearance, irregular, glass-like 
fracture, hardness, and entire insolubility in acids. Its hardness is 
such that it scratches glass, and in this respect alone it differs from any 
other of the essential constituents. It is, however, brittle, and hence, 
though the hardest mineral, is by no means the most refractory; stones 
like granite, which are rich in quartz, working more easily than the 
trap-rocks, in which it is, as a rule, entirely lacking. 

Although ordinarily one of the most indestructible of minerals, and in- 
fusible in the hottest fame of the blow-pipe, yet highly quartzose rocks 
like granite are by no means fire-proof, but scale badly when subjected to 
the heat of a burning building. This peculiar susceptibility of the rock 
to heat is thought by some to be due to the microscopic fluidal cavities 
which exist in the quartz, and which are at times exceeding abundant. 

THE FELDSPARS. Harducss, 5 to 7. 

The feldspars are essentially silicates containing alumina together 
with potash, soda, or lime. There are six varieties that are common 
constituents of building stones, viz, orthoclase, microcline, albite, oli- 
goclase, labradorite, and anorthite. Of these, albite, oligoclase, labra- . 
dorite, and anorthite are usually indistinguishable from one another by 
the eye alone, especially iu fine-grained rocks, and are therefore desig- 
nated by the convenient term plagioclase feldspars or simply plagio- 
clase. Orthoclase is the prevailing feldspar and most important con- 
stituent in granites and gneisses, and is usually accompanied by albite 

*For convenience in determining minerals the "scale of hardness" given below 
has been adopted by mineralogists. By means of it one is enabled to designate the 
comparative hardness of minerals with ease and definiteness. Thus, in saying that 
serpentine has a hardness equal to 4 is meant that it is of the same hardness as the 
mineral lluorite, and can therefore be cut with a knife or otlier tool, but less readily 
than calcite or marble. 

1. Talc. — Easily scratched by the thumb-nail. 

2. GypHum. — Can be scratched by the thumb-nail. 

;?. Calcite. —Not readily scratched by the thumb-nail, but easily cut with a knife. 

4. Fhtorite. — Can be cut with a knife, but less .easily than calcite. 

5. Apatite. — Can be cut with a knife, but only with difficulty. 

6. Orthoclase feldspar. — Can be cut with a knife only with great difficulty and on 
thin edges. 

7. Quartz. — Can not be cut with a knife; scratches glass. 



• BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 295 

or oligoclase, or freqiiontly microcline. Anortbite and labraciorite are 
equally important constituents of basic eruptive rocks, sucli as diabase, 
basalt, and andesite. 

Tlie physical condition of the feldspar iu a building- stone is a matter 
of the greatest importance. In those rocks which withstand the effect 
of the weather through long periods of years without change or disin- 
tegration, the feldspars, if examined with a microscope, will be found 
hard, compact, and fresh, containing but few cavities or impurities. 
On the other hand, the feldspars of many rocks, if thus examined, will 
be found filled with minute cavities and flaws which are often so filled 
with impurities and products of decomposition as to be quite opaque 
(Hawes). Such rocks will not for any length of time withstand the 
weather, since infiltrating waters containing minute quantities of car- 
bonic and other acids, aided by heat and frost, can not fail to jiroduce 
the dire result of disintegration. 

The feldspars have also an important influence upon the cutting of a 
stone. The hardness and toughness of many granites and other crys- 
talline siliceous rocks are due, not to the hard and brittle qu;irtz, but 
to the feldspathic constituent, which is quite variable. The soft gran- 
ites consist of the same constitueuts, but the feldspars are porous and 
therefore offer less resistance to the cutting tool. The feldspars also 
possess a distiuct (tleavage, that is, they split or cleave in one or two 
directions much more readily than in others. It therefore, sometimes 
happens, especially iu coarse-grained and porphyritic rocks, that it is 
very difficult to obtain the perfect surface necessary for polishing, since 
little particles of the feldspars are constantly splitting out, leaving 
small cavities or ''nicks." 

The color of a rock frequently depends largely nj)on its feldspathic 
constituent. If the feldspar be clear, transparent, and glassy, the light 
enters it and is absorbed, giving to the stone a dark color, as is the 
case with the Qnincy granites and many quartz porphj^ries and dia- 
bases. If the feldspar is soft and i:)orous, the light is reflected from the 
surface and the rock appears white. In all the piuk and red granites 
and gneisses the color is due to the pink and red orthoclase they contain. 
It sometimes happens that the orthoclase and plagioclase — M^hen both 
are present in the same rock — are differently colored, the orthoclase 
being pink or red, while the plagioclase is nearly white. 

THE MICAS. Hardness 2.5 to 3. 

Two kinds of mica occur as prominent constituents of builduig stones, 
especially the granites and gneisses. 

These are black mica or biotite, and white mica, or muscovite. Both 
kinds occur in small shining scales which are sometimes nexagonal in 
outline, though more frequently of quite irregular ibrm. 

Tlie composition of the micas is complex, but the black variety is es- 
sentially a silicate of iron, alumina, magnesia, and potash, wliile the 



296 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

white variety is a silicate of alumiua aud potash with small amounts of 
irou, soda, maguesia, aud water. 

The kind, amount, and disposition of mica in a building stone has a 
very important bearing upon its working and weathering qualities as 
well as general fitness for architectural purposes. If it occurs in any 
abundance and the folia are arranged in parallel layers the rock splits 
much more readily in a direction parallel to the mica laminse than in 
that at right angles to them. Mica is itself moreover " soft and fissile, 
and hence is an element of weakness." It also receives a polish only 
with difficulty and which is soon lost upon exposure to the weather. 
Black mica, moreover, owing to its large percentage of iron, is liable to 
succumb to atmospheric agwicies.* 

The finest grades of building stone should contain mica oidy in 
SMall flakes, and these evenly distributed throughout the mass of the 
rock. 

From the marked contrast in color of the two micas it follows that 
they have a decided influence upon the color of the rock containing 
them. Folia of black mica in any abundance naturally give the rock 
a dark-gray hue, while the white mica, being nearly colorless, has a 
neutral effect. Hence, other things being equal, muscovite granites 
are much lighter in color than those in which biotite is the character- 
izing accessory. 

Other micas common in such stone as are used for building are lepi- 
domelane and i)hlogopite. The first of these is black in color and 
closely resembles biotite, from which, however, it diflers in containing 
smaller proportions of the protoxide of iron and in the folia being opaque 
and inelastic. For all practical purposes this mica is, however, identical 
with biotite, and no distinction has been attempted in the present work. 
Phlogopite is colorless like muscovite, from which it can often be distin- 
guished only with difficulty. It is a common constituent of many lime- 
stones, dolomites, and serjientinous rocks. 

AMPHIBOLE. Hornblende. Hanlnoss, 5 to 6. 

Two i)rincipal varieties of this mineral are recognized: (1) The non- 
aluminous, including the white, gray, and pale green, often fibrous 
forms as tremolite, actinolite and asbestus, and (2) the aluminous,which 
includes the dark-green, brown, and black varieties. The aluminous 
variety, common hornblende, is an original and essential constituent of 
diorite, and of many varieties of granite, gneiss, syenite, schist, ande- 
site and trachyte, and is also jiresent as a secondary constituent in 
many rocks, resulting from the molecular alteration of the augite. The 

* Dr. P. Schweitzer while studying the superficial decomposition of the gneiss of New 
York Island, discovered that the hlack mica, after getting first coated with a brown 
film of oxide of iron, " rai)idly disintegrated and disappeared," while the white 
mica iiossessing greater powers of endurance remains fresh aud intact. — Chem. News, 
IV, 1874, p. 444. 

The same phenomena may be noticed in the mica schists about Washington, D. C. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 297 

non-aluiuiiioiis varieties occur in gueiss, crystalline limestone, and other 
metaraor])hic rocks. 

The horublende in such rocks as are used for building i>urposes can 
be readily recognized by its dark-green or almost black color and the 
compactness and tenacity of its crystals which are not easily separable 
into thin loaves or folia as is black mica, with which it might otherwise 
be confounded. Hornblende acquires readily a good and lasting polish 
and as the mineral itself is strong and durable, its presence in a rock 
is thoiigbt to be preferable to that of mica. 

THE PYROXENES. ILinluess, 5 to G. 

Two principal varieties of this mineral are recognized, as with the am- 
phiboles, (1) the non aluminous, including the light colored varieties 
malacolite, sahlite, and diallage, and (2) the aluminous, including the 
dark variety, augite. 

The lighter-colored non-aluminous varieties, malncolite and sahlite, 
are common in mica and liornblendic schists, gneiss, and granite, though 
seldom in sufficient abundance to be noticeable to the naked eye. The 
foliated variety, diallage, is an essential constituent of the rock gabbro, 
and is also common in serpentine. The darker-colored aluminous vari- 
ety, augite, is an essential constituent of diabase and basalt, and also 
occurs in many syenites, andesites, and other eruptive rocks. 

In such rocks as are used for building purposes the pyroxene can not 
usually be distinguished by the unaided eye from hornblende. With 
the exception of the Quincy granites and the New Castle, Del., gneisses, 
pyroxenes do not occur in any of our granitic rocks now quarried, but 
in the diabases and basalts the augite is a very important constituent. 
It is usually a compact and tough yellowish-green or nearly black min- 
eral, and, like horn Idende, readily acquires a good and lastiug polish. 
The ])yroxeue of the Quincy granite, however, proves an exceptionally 
brittle variety, and the continual breaking away of little pieces during 
the process of dressing the stone makes the production of a perfectly 
smooth surface a matter of great difficulty. 

CALCITE. Calc-spar. — Composition : Calcium carbonate, CaC03= carbon dioxide, 
44 per cent. ; lime, 5(i per cent. Hardness, 3. 

This is nn original constituent of many rocks, such as limestone, 
ophiolite, and calcareous shale, and is the essential constituent of most 
marbles, of stalactites, travertine, and calc-sinter. It also 0(-curs as a 
secondary constituent resulting from the decomposition of other min- 
erals, filling wholly, or in part, cavities in rocks of all ages, such as 
granite, gneiss, syenite, diabase, diorite, liparite, trachyte, amlesite, and 
basalt. 

Calcite when pure is white in color, and soft enough to be cut with 
a knife. It can be readily distinguished from other minerals (excepting 
aragonite) by its brisk ellervescence when treated with a ddute acid. 



298 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

ARAGONITE. — Composition : Same as calcite. Hardness, 3.5 to 4. 

This mineral lias tbe same chemical compositiou as calcite, but differs 
in its crystalline form and specific gravity. It sometimes occurs in de- 
])Osits of sufficient extent to be quarried as marble. The beautiful 
"onyx marble" of San Luis Obispo is nearly pure aragonite. 

DOLOMITE. — Composition : (CaMg) C03= Calcium carbouale, 54.35 per cent.; mag^ 
iiesium carbonate, 45.G5 per cent. Hardness, 3.2 to 4. 

This mineral closely resembles calcite, but can be readily distin- 
guished from the same by its greater hardness and from its being acted 
upon but little, if at all, by a dilute acid. Like calcite, it frequently 
occurs in compact crystalline massive forms, and is quarried for build' 
ing material or for making lime. Many of our marbles are dolomites, 
as for instance those of Cockeysville, Md., and Pleasantville, N. Y. 

GYPSUM. Calciuni Sulphate. — Composition: CaSO^ + 2aq = sulphur trioxide, 
46.5 per cent. ; lime, 32.G per cent. ; water, 20.9 per cent. Hardens?, 2. 

Gypsum rarely occurs in crystalline rocks, but forms extensive beds 
among stratified rocks such as limestones and beds of clay. The fine 
translucent variety is used for ornamental purposes, and is known as 
alabaster. It is soft enough to be readily cut with a knife or scratched 
with the thumb-nail, and it is not at all acted on by acids. It is there- 
fore readily distinguished from calcite, which it somewhat resembles. 

SERPENTINE.— Co»)j>osi7(o«; A hydrous silicate of magnesia, Mg3Sii07+2aq = 
silica, 43.48 per cent. ; magnesia, 43.48 per cent.; water, 13.04 per cent. Hard- 
ness, 4. 

This mineral occurs mixed with calcite or dolomite, forming the so- 
called verdantique marble or ophiolite. As a secondary product it is 
sometimes found resulting from the alteration of olivine and other mag- 
nesian minerals in various eruptive rocks, such as basalt, diabase, duu- 
ite, and Iherzolite. It often occurs in extensive deposits, usually mixed 
with more or less chromite, magnetite, enstatite, or similar minerals, and 
is of value as a building or ornamental stone, as will be noticed later. 

Serpentine can usually be recognized from its green or j'ellowish color, 
slightly soapy feeling, lack of cleavage, and softness, it being readily 
cut with a knife. It is, however, not so soft as talc, with which it might 
possibly be confounded by any but a mineralogist. 

TALC. Steatite. — Composition: A hydrous silicate of magnesia = silica, 63.49 per 
cent. ; magnesia, 31i75 per cent. ; water, 4.76 per cent. Hardness, 1. 

This is a common mineral, occurring as an essential constituent of 
talc schist or as an alteration product, replacing hornblende, augite, 
mica, and other inagnesian minerals. The common form is that of 
small, greenish, inelastic scales. It often occurs nuissive, and is known 
by the name of soapstone, and is used extensively in stoves and fur- 
naces. The finely granular crypto- cri/stalKne variety is known as French 
chalk, used by tailors and others. In its common form this mineral 
might be mistaken for a mica, but for its soapy feeling and softness, 
which is such that it can be readily scratched by the thumb-nail. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 299 

OLIVINE. Chrysolite. Peridot.— Conqyosif ion: Silicate of lime and magnesia. 
Hardness, 6 to 7. 

Olivine is an essential constituent ofbasalt, duuite, limburgite, Iber- 
zolite, and picrite, and is a pioniiuent ingredient of many lavas, diabases, 
gabbros, and other igneous rocks, where it occurs in the form of rounded 
biebs of a bottle-green color. It also occurs occasionally in metamor- 
phic rocks and is a constituent of many meteorites. Olivine is subject 
to extensive alteration, becoming changed into serpentine. IMany beds 
of serpentine result entirely from the alteration of olivine-beai ing rocks. 

GARNET. — Composition : Yiiriablc ; essentially a silicate of aluniina, liiuc, iron, or 
magnesia. Hardness, (].'■'> to 7.r>. 

This mineral is an abundant accessory in mica schist, gneiss, granite, 
crystalline limestone, and occasionally in serpentine, volcanic tuff, and 
lava. 

The presence of garnets in stones designed for finely finished work is 
always detrimental, since, owing to their brittleuess and hardness, they 
break away from the stone in the i)rocess of dressing and render the 
l)roduction of smooth surfaces a matter of difiiculty. Those garnets 
which are. found in such stone as are used for building are nearly always 
of a red color and rounded form. 

EPIDOTE. — Composition : Silica, 37.83 per cent. ; alumina, 22.C3 per cent. ; iron 
oxides, 1.5.98 per cent. ; lime, 23.27 per cent. ; water 2.0.') per cent. Hardness, 6 
to 7. 

This mineral is a common constituent of many granites, gneisses, and 
schists, especially the hornblendic varieties. It is also found as a sec- 
ondary constituent in the amygdaloidal cavities of many trap rocks, and 
is readily recognizable from its green color. Although a common con- 
stituent in small proportions of many rocks, those cases in which it is 
sufficiently abundant to give them a specific character are extremely 
rare. Certain of the Kew Ilanipshire and Massachusetts granites con- 
tain it in such (juantities as to be recognizable as greenish specks on 
a polished surface, asdoes also the melaphyr quarried at Brighton, in the 
latter State. 

CHLORITE. Viridite.— i/ard«f.vs, 2 to 3. 

Under the general name chlorite are included several minerals occur- 
ring in fibers and folia, closely resembling the micas, from which they 
differ in their large percentage of water, and in their folia being inelas- 
tic. The three principal varieties recognized are ripidolite, penninite, 
and prochlorite, any one of which may occur as the essential constitu- 
ent of a chlorite schist. Chlorite as a secondary product often results 
from and entirely replaces the pyroxene, hornblende, or mica in rocks 
of various kinds, and also occurs filling wholly or in part the amygda- 
loidal cavities of trap rocks. In this form it is frequently visible only 
with the microscope, and owing to the difficulties in the way of an exact 
determination of its mineral species is called viridite, from the Latin 



300 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

viridis, green, this being its usual color. The characteristic greenness 
which gave the name greenstone to tlie diorites and diabases is due, in 
large part to the secondary chlorite contained by them. 

IRON PYRITES. — Composition : Iron disulpbide, FeSj = sulphur, 53.3 per ceut.; 
iron, 46.7 per cent. Hardness, 6 to 6.5. 

A very common accessory in rocks of all kinds and all ages, usually 
occurring in small cubes or irregular masses of a brassy yellow color. 

It may be set down as a rule that rocks containing this mineral should 
not be used for ornamental work that is to be exposed to the weather, 
siuc<i it is very liable to oxidation in time, staining the stone and per- 
haps causing llic more sei ions result of disintegration. This form of 
the iron disnlpliide is, however, less objectionable than that known as 
marrasite or the gray iron pyrites. 

For some unexi^lained reason this form of the mineral decomposes 
even more readily than the p^'rite, and hence its presence is always to 
be avoided in all rocks where permanency of color or durability is de- 
sired. 

A microscopic study of pyritebearing rocks has shown that there 
are many important considerations bearing ui^ou the weathering prop, 
erties of this mineral. Thus it is found, as in many of the Ohio lime- 
stones and dolomites, occuring not onl^MU well-detined cubes of a brassy 
yellow color, but also in an amorphous granular condition in a ver^- 
fine state of subdivision which appears almost black under the micro- 
scope. Experience has shown that in the latter form it is much more 
liable to oxidation than when in cubes, and hence we see the necessity 
of a microscopic examination of a stone as one of the guides to its i)rob- 
able weathering qualities. In this finely amorphous condition the pyrite 
is stated by Ilawes to have an important effect upon the color of the 
stone. Thus the Springfield and Covington (Ohio) dolomites present 
in different layers two well defined colors — a blue and a yellow. An 
examination with the microscope shows that they differ only in that 
tlie blue variety contains the pyrite in the finely disseminated uuoxi- 
dized state, while in the yellow it has become changed into the hydrous 
oxide. This change having taken place while the stone lies in the 
quarry, is unaccompanied by results of a serious nature, unless the uni- 
form change in color be so considered. Had the change taken x^lace in 
the quarried stone after being laid in the walls of a building, the results 
would 111 all probability have proved more undesirable. Pyrite when 
imbedded firmly in rocks of a close, compact nature is less liable to oxi- 
dation than when contained in one of a loose and porous texture. In 
the magnesian limestones of Dayton, Ohio, the microscope reveals many 
minute cubes of pyrite which are imbedded so firmly in its mass as to 
be not at all deleterious, since beyond the reach of atmospheric agencies. 
In many close-textured rocks, as the slates, pyrite is proverbially long- 
lived, and hence as a rule we can only regard it with suspicion, as an 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 301 

iDgredient whose presence can result iu little that is j^ood and perhaps 
a great deal that is bad. It should be noted that i)yrite on decompos- 
iug, may give rise to sulphates and perhaps to free sulphuric acid, 
which in themselves aid in the work of disiutegratiou. 

"In limestones or dolomites the presence of iron pyrites operates dis- 
astrously; for, if magnesia be present, the sulphuric acid from the 
decomposing iron pyrites produces a soluble elllorescent salt, which 
exudes to the surface and forms white i)atches, which are alternately 
washed off and replaced, but leaving a whitened surface probably 
from the presence of suljdiate of lime. If the limestone be entirely 
calcareous, the salt formed (a sulphate of lime) is insoluble, and 
therefore produces less obvious results. In some cases, however, the 
lime of which the mortar or cement is made may contain magnesia, 
and the decomposition of the iron pyrites in the adjacent stone pro- 
duces an efflorescent salt which exudes from the joints. This con- 
dition is not unfrequently observed in buildings constructed of tlie 
bluestone of the Hudson Eiver group. As an example, we may notice 
the efflorescent pat(;hes proceeding from some of the joints between 
the stones of St. Peter's Church, on State street, in Albany."* 

MAGNETITE. Magnetic Iron Ore. — Composiiio7i : FeO+FeiOa = iron sesqiiioxide, 
(l.~^.'.)7 pt'iTciit. ; iron protoxide, ril.O'J per cent. Hardness, 5..^ to 0.5. 

This occurs as an original constituent in many schists and granites; 
in the latter usually in niinute crystals visible only with tbe microscope. 
It is almost invariably present in igneous rocks such as diorite, diabase, 
and basalt. When present in considerable (juautities it sometimes 
becomes converted entirely into the sesquioxideof iron through taking 
oxygen Irom the the atmosphere. It then stains the rock a rusty red 
color, as is observable in many diabases. 

HEMATITE. Specular Iron Ore. — Chemical compoisiiion : Anliydrous sesqnioxide 
of iron, FeiOa,^ iron, 70.9 per cent. ; oxygen, 30.20 per cent. 

This mineral occurs in varying jiroportions in rocks of all ages. In 
granite it usually occurs as minute scales of a blood-red color. In the 
amorphous form it often forms the cementing material of sandstones, 
when it imparts to them a red or reddish-brown color. This form of iron 
oxide is, however, less common as a cementing substance than the 
hydrous sesquioxides turgiteiiwCi Unionite, which are theforn)s occurring 
in the Triassic sandstones of the eastern United States.! 

* Hall: Report on Building Stone, p. 50. Tbo white elllorescence eo frequently 
seen on stone and brick buildings, seems, according to good antboritics, to be, in 
most cases, due to tbe mortar in which the stone is laid, and is not an inherent qual- 
ity of tlie stone itself. The subject is, therefore, not more fully dwelt upon in the 
present work. 

t Julien, Proc A. A. A. S., 1878. 



302 REPORT OX NATIONAL MUSfZlJM, 1886. 

C— PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL PEOPEETIES O)? EOCKS. 

A little si>Hce may be well devoted here to a consideration of those 
properties of rocks which can be grouped under the heads of density) 
hardness, and structure, together with notes on their color and chemical 
conii)osition. 

(1) DENSITY AND HARDNESS. 

Density. — This is an important i)roperty, since upon it are dependent 
to a large extent the weight per cubic foot, the strength, and the absorp- 
tive powers of the stone. Among rocks of the same 7uineral composi- 
tion, those which are the densest will be found heaviest, least absorptive, 
and usually the strongest. 

To ascertain the weight of a rock it is customary to compare its 
weight with that of an equal bulk of distilled water, in other words to 
ascertain its specific gravity. The specific gravity multipled by 62.5 
pounds (the weiglit of a cubic foot of water) will thus give the weight 
per cubic foot of stone. The weights given in the tables have been thus 
computed. (See p. 000.) 

Hardness. — The apparent hardness of a rock is dependent upon (1) the 
hardness of its comi)oneut minerals and (2) their state of aggregation. 
However hard the minerals of a rock may be, it appears soft and works 
readily if the particles adhere with slight tenacity. Many of the softest 
sandstones are composed of the hard mineral quartz, but the grains fall 
apart so readily that the stone is as a whole soft. (See under State of 
Aggregation.) 

(2) STRUCTURE. 

Under this head are considered those characters of rocks which are 
dependent ui)on the form, size, and arrangement of their component 
minerals. 

All rocks may be classified sufficiently close for x)resent purposes 
under one of the three heads (1) crystalline, (2) vitreous or glassy, and 
(3) fraguiental. Of the first, granite and crystalline limestone may be 
considered as types; of the second, obsidian and pitchstone, and of the 
third, sandstone. Many structural pro^jerties are common to all, others 
are confined to rocks of a single type. Accordingly as the structure is 
or is not readily recognizable by the unaided eye, we have : 

(1) M((croscoj)ic sfrucfure, or structure which is aistivguishahle in the 
hand sijecimen and icithout the aid of a microscope, — Under this head are 
comprehended structures designated by such names as (jranular, tnass- 
ive, stratified, foliated, porphijritic, concretionarij, etc.; terms whose 
precise meaning is given in the glossary, and which, with perhaps one 
or two exceptions, need not be further considered here; and 

(2) 2Iicroscopic structures, — Many rocks are so fine grained and com- 
pact that nothing of their mineral nature or structure can be learned 
from study with the eye alone, and recourse must be had to the micro- 



Report of National Museum, 1886 Merrill 



Plate II, 




Smowing the Microscopic Structure of Rocks. 



IHIII.DING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 303 

scope. lu such cases it is customary amouj;' lithologists to griud a small 
chip of the rock so thin as to be trauspareut, aud then, when properly 
mounted iu Canada balsam, to submit it to microscopic study. By this 
method many im[)ortant points of structure and composition are brought 
out that would otherwise be unattainable. The physical condition of 
the minerals of a rock, their freedom from decomposition, and methods 
of arrangement can often only be ascertained by this melliod. By it 
the presence of many minute ami perliaps important ingredients is 
made known whose i)resencc would otherwise be unsuspected. This 
subject is further treated under the head of Rock-forming minerals and 
the descriptions of the various kinds of rocks. 

In Fig. 1 of n. II is shown the structure of the muscovite biotite 
granite of Hallowell, ]\Le., drawn as are the other figures on this plate 
from thiu sections and under a magnifying power of about twenty-flvi' 
diameters. This is a granite of quite complex structure, consisting of 
[1) orthoclase, (2) microcline, (;>) plagioclase, (4) quartz, (5) black mica, 
or biotite, and (G) white mica or muscovite. There are also little needles 
of apatite, scattering grains of magnetite, and occasionally small gar- 
nets present, which, however, do not show iu the figure. The quartz, 
moreover, is pierced iu every direction bj^ minute hair-like crystals 
which are supposed tq be rutile. The structure, as in all granites aud 
gneisses, is crystalline throughout, as in the marbles (Fig. 3) aiul diabase 
(Fig. 4). The crystals are, however, very imperfect in outline, owing to 
mutual interference in jn-ocess of formation. Although the rock con- 
tains a very large proportion of the liard minerals quartz and feldspar, 
these do not interlock so thoroughly as do the augite and feldspjars in 
the diabase. As, moreover, quiirtz is a brittle substance, these rocks 
worli; much more readily and will crush under less pressure than those 
of which Fig. 4 is a type. 

In Fig. 2 of the same plate is shown the structure of an oolitic lime- 
stone from Princeton, in Caldwell County, Kentucky. It will be noticed 
that the first step in the fornnitiou of this stone was the deposition of 
concentric coating of lime about a nucleus which is sometimes nearly 
round, but more frequently ({uite angular aud irregular. After the 
concretions were completed there were formed in all cases about each 
one narrow zones of minute radiating crystals of clear, colorless cal- 
cite ; then the larger crystals formed in the interstices. An examina- 
tion of the section in polarized light shows that while the concentric 
l)ortions are nearly always amorphous the nuclei (and always the in- 
terstitial matter) is frequetitly crystalline. The nuclei are composed in 
some cases of single fragments or, again, of a groui) of fragments. Cer- 
tain of the oolites present no distinct concentric structure, but aj)pear 
as mere rounded masses merging gradually into the crystalline interstitial 
portions. On the application of acetic acid to an uiuiovered slide of this 
rock a brisk effervescence at once set iu, which, when the slide was again 
placed on the stage of the microscope, was seen not to arise from all 



304 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

portions of the slide alike, but to be confiued almost exclusively to the 
outer uou-crystalliiie i)ortions of the oolites, so that in time these almost 
comi^leteiy disappeared, leaving the crystalline nuclei and cementing 
material till the ^ery last. Some of the outlines thus left are peculiarly 
deceptive, having almost the appearance of a cross-section of coral or a 
crinoid stem. This structure is common, so far as I have observed, to 
all the oolitic limestones of both Kentucky and Indiana. In the weath- 
ering of these stones then we would have jiroduced an effect precisely 
the opposite of that produced in fragmental sili(5eous rocks. In the 
latter case the cement is removed and the grains themselves are but 
slightly acted upon; in the former, the grains themselves disappear 
and the cementing material remains. 

It should be remarked, however, that we have as yet no proof that 
the action of an acid atmosphere on one of these oolites would proceed 
with other than extreme slowness. In fact, their compactness, freedom 
from cleavage, fractures, and flaws would seem to indicate pist the con- 
trary. Further investigations on this point are necessary before one can 
spe^k definitely. 

The microscoi)ic structure of ordinary white crystalline limestone is 
shown in Fig. 3, drawn from a magnified section of a West Rutland 
marble. The entire mass of the rock, it will be observed, is made up 
of small calcite crystals of quite uniform size closely locked together, 
and with no appreciable interspaces. The dark stripes across the crys- 
tals are caused by twin lamellic and cleavage lines. All traces of its 
fossil origin, if such it had, have been obliterated by metamorphism. 

Fig. 4 is that of a diabase from Weehawken, N. J. The elongated, 
nearly colorless crystals, shaded with long parallel lines, are a plagio- 
clase feldspar, the very irregular ones augite, while the i)erfectly black 
and opaque are magnetite. The figure is, however, given to show the 
structure rather than the mineral composition of the rock. It will be 
noticed that every portion of available space is occupied, there being 
no residual spaces to be filled by cement, as in the sandstone ; also that 
the feldspars and augites so closely interlock that they can not be forced 
apart with out breaking. As both of these minerals are quite tough 
and hard, the great strength, durability, and hard-working qualities of 
the rock can readily be understood, although the constituents them- 
selves are not harder than those that go to make up some of the most 
friable sandstones. 

As showing the differences in structure and composition of the sand- 
stones. Figs. 5 and G are given, drawn from thin sections of the brown 
Triassic stone from Portland, Conn., and a reddish Potsdam stone from 
quarries in the town of Potsdam, N. Y. In the first mentioned, Fig. 6, 
the stone, it will be noticed, is com posed of (1) clear, angular grains of 
quartz, (2) clouded grains of orthoclase and plagioclase, the latter being 
recognized by its parallel banding, and numerous irregular and con- 
torted shreds of black and white mica. These are all crowded into a 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 305 

loosely compacted mass and the iuterstices filled by a cement composed 
of au amoipbous mixture of iron oxides, carbonate of lime, and clayey 
matter. These are represented in black in the figure. It will be ob- 
served that only the quartzes and a few of the feldspars are in a fresh and 
undeeomposeil condition, nearly all of the latter being' badly kaolinized. 
The Potsdam stone (Pig. 5) shows, however, a markedly different struct- 
ure. Here the granules are wholly of quartz, and very much rounded 
iu form. No feldspars, Tiiica, or other minerals are i)resent. The orig- 
inal rounded outline of the quartz granule is shown by the dotted 
lines and deeply shaded portions, while every portion oi" the interstices 
is occupied by a clear, colorless, siliceous cement binding the rock into 
a hard, compact, and impervious quartzite almost absolutely unaffected 
by chemical and atmospheric agencies.* 

The canse of the Avide variation in relative durability of stones of 
these two types becomes now at once apparent. In the first case the 
abundant amorphous cement is not only slightly soluble, and liable to 
partial removal by the water from rains, but it also facilitates the 
absori)tion of a proportionally large amount of moisture. On being 
subjected to rejieated freezing and thawing w^hile in this saturated 
condition, the grains gradually become loosened and the characteristic 
scaling results. Stones of the Potsdam type, on the other hand, are 
practically non-absorptive and insoluble, and are susceptible to no other 
natural influences than the constant expansion and contraction caused 
by changes in temperature. They are consequently' vastly more dura- 
ble. Unfortunately they are also much harder, and henoe can be 
utilized only at greatly increased expense. 

(:3) STATE OF AGGKEGATION. 

This is one of the most important properties of building-stone, since 
is dependent upon it very largely the hardness or softness of a rock 
aud its consequent working qualities. Many rocks composed of hard 

*Tbi.s rock shows to beiiutiful advautage the secondary euhirgcuient of quartz 
granules by deposition of interstitial silica having the same crystallographic orien- 
tation as the granules themselves, a peculiarity first noted by the Swedish geologist 
Tornebohm, later by Sorby (Quar. Jour. Geol. Soc., 1880, p. 58), aud since described 
in great detail in American rocks by Irving and Van Hise, (Am. Jour, of Sci., June, 
188:5 ; also Bull. No. 8, U. S. Geol. Survey). I may say further here that the red and 
brown colors of our Triassic sandstones seem to be due not merely to the thin pelli- 
cle of iron oxides with which each granule is surrounded, but the feld8i)athic grains — 
often badly decomposed — are stained throughout by the same material, and which 
also occurs mixed with clayey, calcareous and silicious matter forming the cement. 
This is never the case, so far as 1 have observed, in the I'otsdam stones, in which the 
oxide occurs only as a thin coating around each granule, as shown by the shaded por- 
tions in Fig 5. My own experience, also, is to the elTect that the fragments, of which 
the Triassic stones are composed, are much loss rounded by attrition than seems 
ordinarily supposed, or as they are represented when figured. Fig. 4 is very typical 
of the Portland stone, but it does not iu the least resemble that given in Fig. 6, 
Plate XII, Lith. &■ Min. of Now Hampshire. Naturally, however, samples 8ele«ted 
from different beds, or from different localities, will be found to vary greatly. 
n. Mis. 170, pt. 2 20 



306 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

materials work readily because their grains are but loosely coherent, while 
others of softer materials are quite tough and difficult to work owing 
to the tenacity with which their particles adhere to one another. Ob- 
viously a stone in which the grains adliere closely and strongly one to 
another will be less absorbent and more durable under pressure than 
one which is loose textured and friable. A rock is called flinty when 
tine grained and closely compacted like flint; cart//y when partially de- 
conjposed into earth or loam ; friahle when it falls easily into powder 
or crumbles readily under the tool. Upon the state of aggregation and 
the fineness of the grain is dependent very largely the kind of fracture 
possessed by a rock. Finegrained, compact rocks like flint, obsidian, 
and some limestones, break with concave and convex shell like surfaces, 
formiug a conchoidal fracture ; such stoue are called plucky by the work- 
men and they are otten quite difficult to dress on this account. Others 
break with a rough and jagged surface called hacMy or splintery. When 
as in free-working sandstone and granite the broken surface is quite 
straight and free from inequalities they are referred to as having a 
straiylit or right fracture. 

(4) RILT AND GRAIN. 

The rift of a rock is the direction parallel to its foliation or bedding 
and along which it can usually be relied upon to split with greatest 
ease. It is best represented in mica schist, gneiss, and other rocks of 
sedimentary origin. It is a property, however, com mon to massive rocks, 
though usually much less pronounced. The grain is always in a direc- 
tion at right angles with the rift. 

These are two most important qualities in any stone that it is desired 
to work into blocks of any regularity of shape. Without them the 
production of rough blocks for street paviug or for finely finished work 
would be possible only with greatly increased expense, and only the 
very softest stones could be worked with any degree of economy. 
With them the hardest rocks are sometimes most readily worked. Thus 
the Sioux Falls (Dak.) quartzite, one of the hardest known rocks, is as 
readily broken out into square blocks for paving as a granite or soft 
sandstone. 

(5) COLOR, 

The color of a stone is as a rule dependent more upon its chemical 
than its physical properties. As will be noted, however, the color of 
the granites and similar rocks is sometimes varied in shades of light 
and dark accordingly as the feldspar are clear and glassy and absorb 
the light or white and opaque and reflect it. The chief coloring matter in 
rocks is iron, which exists either in chemical combination with the vari- 
ous minerals or in some of its simpler compounds such as the sulphide, 
carbonate, or oxide disseminated in minute particles throughout the mass 
of the rock. The oxides of iron impart a brownish or reddish hue, the 
carbonate or sulphide a bluish or gray, A very light or nearly white 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 307 

eolor denotes the absence of iron in any of its forms. On the coudition 
of the iron is dependent also the permanency of color. Either the sul- 
phide, carbonate or other protoxide compounds, are liable to oxidation, 
and hence stones containing it in these forms fade or turn yellowish and 
stain on exposure. The sesquioxide on the other hand can undergo no 
further oxidation, and hence the color caused by it is the most durable. 
Hence, as a rule, the decidedly red colors may be considered most })er- 
manent. 

The blue and black colors of marbles and limestoues are due largely 
to carbonaceous matter. 

The etiects of the various mineral constituents in Varying the shades 
of colors are mentioned in the chapter on rock-forming minerals and in 
the descriptions of the dittereut kinds of stones. Great care and judg- 
ment is needed in the selection of i)roper colors in building. Heavy 
rock-faced walls of dull brown sandstone, dark gneiss, or diabase al- 
ways impart an appearance of gloom, while warm, bright colors are 
cheei'ingand pleasing to the eye. The late Architect liichardson, with- 
out doubt, owed a considerable share of his success to his power of se- 
lecting for any particular piece of work stone of such color as to be 
most effective aud harmonious in the finished structure. 

(6) THE CHEMICAL CHARACTERS OF ROCKS. 

This naturally varies with the mineral composition and their ever- 
varying proportions. ISTevertheless, it is possible to obtain general aver- 
ages from which the stones of each particular kind will not be found to 
vary widely. It is customary to consider rocks which, like granite, are 
rich in silica as acidic, while those in which, as in basalt, the average 
percentage falls below tifty are called basic. Various descriptive ad- 
jectives are applied to the names of rocks according as they vary in 
comi)osition. Calcareous rocks consist i)rincipal]y of lime, or contain 
an appreciable amount; argillaceous contain clay, which can usually be 
recognized by its odor when breathed ujion ; siliceous contain some 
form of silica; ferruginous, iron in the form of oxide; carbonaceous, more 
or less carbon ; bituminous contain bitumen, which can often be detected 
by the odor of petroleum given off when the rock is freshly broken. 
Calcareous rocks can always be detected from their effervescing when 
treated with a dilute acid. The chemical com])Osition of a stone is often 
a guide to its suitability for structural purposes. Those containing 
much lime are more liable to be unfavorably affected by the acid gases 
of cities, and the various forms of iron present are of importance both 
regarding the weathering properties of the stones and their colors, as 
will be noticed later under special cases. A table of rock compositions 
is to be found near the close of this volume. 



308 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



D.— ROCK CLASSIFICATION. 

The rocks now iu use for constructive i)iirposes may be classified suf- 
ficiently close for present i)urposes under the following heads : 



A. — Crystalline and Vitreous. 

I. — Simple Hocks. 

1) Silicates : 

(a) Talc (iucluding Steatite ai'd 

Soapstofte). 
{b) Serpentine. (Iu part.) 

(2) Sulphates: 

(a) Gypsum (iucluding Alabaster 
and Satiu Spar). 

(3) Carlionates: 

(a) Limestone and Dolomites. 

II. — Compound Rocks. 

(1) Massive, witli Quartz and Ortlioclaso; 

acidic: 
(a) Granites and Granite Pori>hy- 

riea. 
(6) Quartz Poriihyries. 
(c) Liparites. 

(2) Massive, without Quartz : 

(a) Syenite. 

(Z») Quartz-free Orthoclaso Porphy- 
ries, 
(c) Trachytes and Phonolites. 



(;i) PI agioclase rocks; basic: 

(o) Diorites and Diorite Porphy- 

rites. 
(&) Diabases, Gabbros, Mclaphyres, 

aud Basalts, 
(c) The Andesites : 

(4) Rocks without feldspars : 

(a) The Peridotites. (Serpentines 
in part.) 

(5) Schistose or foliated rocks: 

(a) Gneiss (included here with the 

Granites). 
{h) The'Schists. 

B. — FltAGMENTAL. 

(a) The Psami*iite8,including Sand- 
stone, Conglomerate, Brec- 
cia, and Graywacke. 

(Z>) Pelites iucluding Clayslates 
aud Pii)e-clay. 

(c) Tolcauio fragniental rocks, 
Tufls. 

{d) Fragmental rocks of organic 
origin (included here under 
the head of Liraestoues). 



The order in which the rocks are mentioned above will be adhered to 
iu the descriptions given in the following pages. For the benefit of 
those not familiar with the order of succession of the various rock for- 
mations in the earth's crust, the following table is also given : 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



309 



E.— GEOLOGICAL ItECOKD ; 



ORDER OF SUCCESSION OF 






^2 

s o 



1^ 

a 

a 

° 2 V. * 
>S '^ 



^« 









Pm 



>° 



THE ROCKS 
CRUST. 



COMPOSINO THE EARTH'S 



SEecont, or Terrace. 
Champlain. 
Glacial, or Drift. 



u a 






j> Tertiary. 



Cretaceous. 



) Jurassic. 



Triaasic. 

Permian. 
Carbon! fevouH. 

Subcarhoijjifcrous, 
1 Catskill. 
Chemung. 

)^ Hamilton. 

Corniferous. 
J 
^ Oriwlcany. 

Lower Helderberg. 

Salina. 

Niagara. 



Cambrian, 
or Pri- 
mordial. 



Trenton. 



Canadian. 



\ Upiier. 
[Middle. 
J Lower. 

ArchsBan, Pre-Cambrian. 



Pliocene. 
Miocene. 
Eocene. 



Laramie. 

S Upper. 
Middle. 
Lower. 
Weal den. 
Upper oolite. 
Middle oolite. 

< Lower oolite. 
Upper Lias. 
Marlstone. 

, Lower Lias. 

SKeuper. 
Muschelkalk. 
Banter Sandstone. 

Permian. 
( Upper Coal-measures. 

< Lower Coal-measures. 
( Millstone Grit. 

5 Upper. 
i Lower. 

Catskill. 

Chemung. 

Portage. 

Genesee. 

Hamilton. 

Marcellus. 

Coruiferous. 

Schoharie. 

Canda-galli. 

Oriskauy. 

Lower Helderberg. 

Salina. 

Niagara. 

Clinton. 

Medina. 

Cincinnati. 

Utica. 

Trenton. 

(Miazy. 

Quebec. 

(Jalcilerous. 

Potsdam. 

Georgian. 

St. John's. 

lluroiiian. 

Laurentian. 



310 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

F.— METHODS OF QUARRYING AND DRESSING. 

(1) JOINTS IN ROCKS AND THEIR UTILITY IN QUARRYING. 

All rocks, whatever their origin, are traversed by oue or more systems 
of natural seams or cracks, called joints. These vary greatly, accord- 
ing to the nature of the rock in which they occur, sometimes being so 
fine as to be almost imperceptible, or again perfectly distinct and capable 
of being traced for many yards, or even miles. In stratified rocks (lime- 
stones, sandstones, schists, etc.), according to Professor Geikie, the 
joints, " as a rule," run perpendicular, or approximately so, to the planes 
of bedding, and descend vertically at not very unequal distances, so that 
the portions of the rock between them, when seen from a distance, ap- 
pear like so many wall-like masses. An important feature of these 
joints, as mentioned by this authority, is the direction in which they 
intersect each other. In general they have two dominant trends, one 
coincident on the whole with the direction in which the strata are in- 
clined from the horizon, and the other running transversely at a 
right angle, or nearly so. The first are called "dip joints" or "end 
joints" by the quarrymen, since they run with the dip or inclination of 
the rock, while the last are called " strike joints," since they conform in 
direction to the strike of the rock. These last are also called "back 
joints." 

In mai-'sive rocks like granite and diabase, joints, though jirevalent, 
have not the same regularity of arrangement as in the stratified forma- 
tions ; nevertheless, most rocks of this class are traversed by two in- 
tersecting sets, whereby the rock is divided into long, quadrangular, 
rhomboidal. or even polygonal masses. Frequently, also, there exists 
a third series of joints running in an approximately horizontal direction, 
or corresponding more nearly with the bedding in stratified rocks. 
These are called by quarrymen " bottom joints," since they form the 
bottom or floor of the quarry. In some instances, as at the Hallowell 
(Maine) granite quarries, these bottom joints are so pronounced that no 
artificial means are required to start the rock from its bed after being 
freed at the sides and ends. 

The cause of these joints has never been fully and satisfactorily ex- 
plained. By some they are supposed to be due to contraction caused 
by cooling, and by others it is supposed that they are simply fractures 
produced by earthquakes. Obviously, the matter can not be discussed 
here, and the reader is referred to the various text-books on geology. 
But whatever may have been their origin, their presence is a matter 
of great importance to quarrymen, and, indeed, the art of quarrying has 
been well stated by Professor Geikie to consist in taking advantage of 
these natural planes of division. By their aid large quadrangular blocks 



BUILt)ING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 31 1 

cau be wedged ofi' which woiihl be shattered if exposed to the risk of 
blasting.* 

(2) GRANITE QUARRYING. 

The methods of quarrying naturally vary with the kiud and quality 
of the material to be extracted. In all the object aimed at is to obtain 
tlie largest and best shaped blocks with the least outlay of time and 
money, and this, too, so far as possible, without the aid of exjdosives of 
any kind, since the sudden jar thus produced is extremely liable to de- 
velop incipient fractures and so shatter as to ruin valuable material. 

In quarrying granite there is less to fear from the use of explosives 
than in either sandstone or marble, while, at the same time, the greater 
hardness of the stone renders the quarrying of it by other means a mat- 
tor of considerable difficulty and expense. 

In the leading quarries of Maine and Massachusetts no machinery is 
used other than the steam drill and hoisting apparatus. By means of 
the drills a lewis t hole or a series of lewis holes is put down at proper 
intervals to a depth dependent upon the thickness of the sheets. These 
are then charged, not too heavily, and fired simultaneoush'. Jn the 
Hallowell quarries, where the sheets of granite are entirely free from 
one another, this is all that is necessary to loosen the blocks from the 
quariy, and they are then broken up with wedges. In many quarries, 
liowever, where the sheets are thicker or the bottom joints less dis- 
tinct, it is necessary to drill a series of horizontal holes aloug the line 
where it is wished to break the rock from the bed and then complete 
the process with wedges. 

(3) MARBLE QUARRYING. 

In quarrying marble and other soft rocks, channeling machines are 
now largel}^ used. These, as shown in the illustration (page 312), run 
on narrow tracks, back and forth over the quarry bed, cutting, as they 
go, vertical channels some 2 inches in width and from 4 to 6 feet in 
depth. After the channels are completed a series of holes from 8 inches 
to 2 feet ajiart are drilled along the bottom of the block, which is then 
split from its bed by means of wedges. This under drilling is called 
by quarrymeu " gadding," and special machines, which are known as 
" gadding machines," have been designed for the purpose. (See fig- 
ures on pages 325 and 32G.) At the Vermont marble quarries both the 

* A good illustratiou of the utility of jointed structure as au aid to quarryiug sedi- 
meutary rocks is offered in the Primordial conglomerates about Boston. These consist 
of a greenish gray groundmass, in which are embraced a great variety of pebbles of 
granite, quartzite, melaphyre, and felsite of all shai)es and si/es. The beds arc trav- 
ersed by two series of vertical joints which cut the rock and its included pebbles, 
granite, quartz, melaphyre, and felsito alike, with almost as sharp and clear a cut as 
could be made by the lapidar;y 's whetd. The joints are very abundant, and in many 
cases quarrying would be a practical impossibility without tliem. Whenever smooth 
walls are required the stone is laid on its bed with the joint face outward. 

t I find the word also spelled louis. For description see Glossary. 



312 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



SiiUivau diamond-poiuted drill and the Ingersoll impact drill are used 
for gaddiug. The bottom holes are usually drilled to a depth equaling 




^Val•(hvt'll ili:miitlin;i; nuicbiue. 

about one-half the width of the block to be extracted, though this 
depth, as well as the frequency of the holes, must necessarily vary with 
the character of the rift of the rock. 

(4) SANDSTONE QUARRYING. 

In the quarrying of the Triassic sandstones at Poitland, Conn., the 
channeling machine is also used to some extent, but the prevailing 
method of loosening large blocks is by deep drill holes charged with 
heavy blasts of powder. These holes, which are made by a crude ma- 
chine driven by cranks, like an ordinary derrick, are 10 inches in diam- 
eter and about 20 feet deep. Into these are put from 25 to 75 pounds 
of powder, contained in a flattened or oval tincaunister, with the edges 
unsoldered and closed at the ends by paper or cloth. This is placed in 
the hole in such a position that a plane passing through its edges is in 
line with the desired break, and fired. In this way large blocks are 
freed from the quarry, and these are then broken to any required size, 
as follows : The workmen first cut with a pick a sharp groove some 4 to 
8 inches deep along the full length of the line where it is desired the 
stone shall break. Into this groove are then placed, at intervals of a 
few inches, large iron wedges, which are then in turn struck repeated 



Report of National Museum, 1 886.— Merrill. 



Plate III. 




< I 

HI .^z 

O 5 



a 



Report of National Museum, 1886. — Merrill. 



Plate IV. 






S 












1 


llllllllllllllllillllllllllllll 


=^ 


M 


1 


— j 




Kinds of Finish. 



Fig. 1. Rock face. Fig. 4. Tooth-chiseled. 

Figs. 2, 3. Pointed face. Fig. 5. Square drove. 

Fig. G. Patent hammered. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 313 

blows by heavy sledge-haniiners in the hands of the quarrymen 
until the rock falls apart. This process will be made plain by refer- 
ence to Plate III. In some of the quarries of softer sandstone no ma- 
chines at all are used, the channeling being done entirely with picks 
and the stone forced out by means of iron bars alone, or split out with 
plug and feather. To allow of this, hovA'ever, the stone must be eveuly 
and thinly bedded, and the dilferent sheets adhere to one another 
with but slight tenacity, as is the case with certain of the New York 
*' blnestones " and Berea grits of Ohio. In the New York quarries the 
vertical joints are said to be so numerous as to practically do away with 
the uecessity of channeling.* 

Powder is still largely used in most of the smaller quarries^ and in 
all those of granite rock for throwing otf large masses. If properly 
used with these harder varieties, it is doubtful if any serious harm re- 
sults, but in the quarrying of marble and other soft stones, its use can not 
be too strongly condemned. As suggested by Sperrt the rapid disinte- 
gration of the Carrara marble is no doubt caused in part by the in- 
cipient fractures induced through the crude methods of quarrying em- 
ployed. Excepting when, as in the case of granite, no other means can 
be employed, explosives of all kinds are to be avoided. When neces- 
sary, they should be used in a lewis hole, whereby direction may be 
given to the force of the discharge and the shock distributed over large 
surfaces. 

(f)) CUTTING AND DRESSING STONE. 

In cutting and dressing stone the same slow hand processes that were 
in vogue hundreds of years ago are still largely employed. There have 
been, it is true, many machines invented for this i)urpose, but the ma- 
jority of them are far from satisfactory in their working qualities, or 
the cost of running them is so great that they can be used only by the 
larger and wealthier firms. After a large mass has been split from the 
quarry bed it is broken into blocks of the required size and shape by 
means of wedges. A series of holes, three-fourths of an inch in diam- 
eter and a few inches deep, is drilled along the line where it is desired 
the stone shall break, and into each of these two thin half round i)ieces 
of soft iron called " feathers " are placed, and a small steel wedge or 
" l)lug" placed between. The quarryman then moves along this line 
striking M'ith his hammer each wedge in its turn till the desired strain 
is ])roduced and the stone falls apart. 

There is a chance for a greater disi)lay of skill in this work than may 
at first appear. Nearly every stone, however conq)act, has a distinct 
grain and rift, along which it can be relied on tos[)lit with comparative 
ease and safety. To know the rift and be able to take ]noper advantage 

* F. W. Sperr. Report Tenth Ceusus, p. 37. 
Wp. cit., p. 38. 



314 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUxM, 1886 



of it is au importaut item, and it is astouisliiug how readily an espo- 
rieuced workman will cause a stone to take tlie desired shape through a 
knowledge of this property. 




Drilling holes for splitting stone with plug and feathers. 

This process of splitting stone with wedges is said* to have been first 
brought into general use in this country by a poor mechanic named 
Tarbox, of Dan vers, Mass. Through the influence ot Governor Rob 
bins, who stumbled upon samples of his work by the merest accident, 
this man was induced in 179S to go to Quincy and teach his art to the 
quairymen of that place. So much did the adoption of this simjile 
method facilitate granite working that the price of the cut material 
dropped within the space of a few months over GO per cent. Prior to 
this time the stone after being blasted from the quarry in irregular 
blocks was squared down to the proper size by cutting a groove along 
a straight line with a sliarp-edged tool called an axhammer, and then 
striking with a heavy hammer repeated blows on both sides of the 
groove until the rock was broken asunder.t 

" Proceedings Aineric.au Academy, Vol. iv, IS.'jQ, p. 'Ab'.i. 

t la Pfittce's History of Old Braintreeaud Quincy occurs this passage : " On Sun- 
day, 1803, the first experiment in splitting stone with wedges was madebyJosiah 
Bemis, George Stearns, and Micliael Wilde. It proved successful, and so elated were 
these gentlemen on this memorablo Sunday that they adjourned to Newcomb's hotel, 
where thej^ partook of a sumptuous feast. Tlio wedges used in this experiment were 
flat, and differed somewhat from those now in use.' 

As to who cau justly claim to be the first to brir g this method of splitting into 



BUILDING AND OlLXAMKNTAL STONES. 315 

Tliis method is said to liave been iiitiodnced into Qaiiicy somewhere 
about 1725-50, by German emigrants, and, crude as it may seem, was 
a vast improvement over that used in preparin^^ stone for tlie construc- 
tion of King's Chapel, erected in 1749-'o4:, on the corner of Scliool and 
Tremont streets, Boston. Uere we are told the stone was first heated 
by building a fire around it and then broken by means of heavy iron 
balls let fall from a considerable height. 

With such difficulties as these to contend with it is not surprising 
that the building should Jjave been considered a wonder when com- 
pleted, and that people coming to Boston from a distance made it a 
point to see and admire this great structure. The wonder, however, 
was not that the granite could be broken into shape by such methods, 
but ''that stone enough could be found in the vicinity of Boston fit for 
the hammer to coustruct such an entire building. But it seemed to be 
universally conceded that enough more like it could not be found to 
build sucli another." 

After a block is broken from the quarry bed it is trimmed to the 
desired size and shape by means of a variety of implements, according 
to the hardness of the stone and tlie character of the desired finisli. 

In dressing granite and otlicr hard stone tlie tools ordinarily used 
are the set or pitching chisel, thespalling hammer, pean hammer, bush 
hammer, hand hammer, chisel, and point. With the set the rough 

general use the author has no means of ascertaining. That none of the above can 
justly claim to have invented the process is evident from the following: 

"I told thee that I had been informed that the grindstones and millstones were 
split with wooden pegs drove in, hnt I did not say that those rocks about this house 
could be split after that manner, but that I conld split them, and had been used to 
split rocks to make steps, door-sills, and large window cases all ot stone, and l>ig- 
tronghs and water-troughs. I have split rocks 17 feet long and built four houses of 
hewn stone split out of the rocks with my own hands. My method is to bore the 
rock about G inches deep, having drawn a line from one end to the other, in which 
I bore holes about a foot asunder, more or less, according to the freeness of the rock ; 
if it be 3 or 4 or 5 feet thick, 10, 12, or 16 inches deep. The hole should be an inch 
and a quarter diameter if the rock be 2 feet thick, but if it be 5 or 6 feet thick the 
holes should be an inch and three-quarters diameter. There must be provided twice 
as many iron wedges as holes, and one-half of them must be fully as hnig as the hole 
is deep and made round at one end, jnst fit to droji into the hole, and the other half 
may be made a little longer, and thicker one way, and blunt pointed. All the holes 
must have their wedges di'ovo together, one after another, gently, that they may 
strain all alike. You may he.ar by their ringing when they strain well. Then with 
the sharp edge of the sledge strike hard on the rock in the line between every wedge, 
which will crack the rock ; then drive the wedges again. It generally opens in a few 
minutes after the wedges are drove tight. Then, with an iron bar or long havers, raise 
them up and lay the two pieces flat and bore and split them in what shape and 
dimensions you please. If the rock is anything free you may split them as true almost 
as sawn timber, and by this method you may split almost any rock, for you may add 
almost any power you please by boring the holes deeper aiul closer together." 

(From letter of John Bartram to .lared Elliot dated January 24, 1757. See Darling- 
ton's Mem. of Bartram and JNIarshall, ]>. I!?.').) The precise date at which these four 
stone houses were built is not stated, but th(» work above quoted contains an illus- 
tration of John Bartram's house, near Darby, Delaware County, Pa. This house, 



316 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

block is trimmed down to a line. Then the irregular surface is worked 
down by the point, which is driven by the hand hammer. After point- 
ing, are used the pean and the patent or bush hammers in turn, begin- 
ning with the 4-cut and thence working down with the 6cut, 8-cut, 10- 
cut, and 12-cut, or until the desired surface is obtained. The condition 
of the hammered surface at the completion of one of the hammerings 
should be such that each cut in the hammer traces a line its full length 
on the stone at each blow. 

The single cut or pean hammer should leave no unevenness exceed- 
ing one-eighth of an inch, and each finer cut reduces the unevenness 
left by the preceding. 

The 12-cut should leave no irregularities upon the surface of the 
stone other than the indentations made by the impinging of the plates 
in the hammer. The lines of the cut are made so as to be vertical in 
exposed vertical faces when the block is in position. On horizontal 
and unexposed faces they are cut straight across in any convenient di- 
rection. With sawn surfaces of course much of the preliminary work 
is done away with, as the surface is already sufficiently smooth. It is 
at i^resent customary to saw only such stone as are designed for j^olish- 
ing or some kind of smooth finish. 

In i^reparing a stone for polishing the surface is first made smooth as 
possible by sawing or by the means above designated. It is then fur- 

which is of stone, was erected about 1730. Hence we must conclude that the art of 
si^littiug stone in this manner was known to some at least as early as this date. 

It is stated (Grueber, Die Baumaterialien-Lehre, j»p. GO, 61) that in Finland, even at 
the present day, granite is split from the quarry-bed through the expansive force of 
ice. A series of holes, from a foot to 15 inches apart and from 2 to 3 feet deep, accord- 
ing to the size of the block to be loosoaed, is driven along the line of desired rift after 
the usual custom. These holes are then filled with water and tightly plugged. The 
operation is put off until late in the season and until the approach of a frost. The water 
in the holes then freezes, and by its expansion fractures the rock in the direction of 
the lino of holes. Blocks of 400 tons weight are stated to be broken out in this way. 
A more ancient method consisted in simply plugging the holes with dry woodeu 
wedges and then thoroughly saturating them with water, the swelling wood acting 
in the same way as the freezing water. Another ancient and well-known method con- 
sisted in building a fire around the stone, and when it was thoroughly heated striking 
it with heavy hammers or throwing cold water upon it. In splitting stone the ancient 
Romans are said to have sprinkled the hot stone with vinegar, though whether they 
thereby accelerated the splitting or caused the stone to break along definite lines is 
not known. Quartz rocks, it is stated, can be made to split in definite directions by 
wetting them while hot, or laying a wet cord along the line it is desired they shall 
cleave. The wet line gives rise to a small crack, and the operation is completed by 
striking heavy blows with wooden mallets. According to M. Raimoudi, the ancient 
Peruvians split up the stone in the quarry by first heating it with burning straw and 
then throwing cold water upon it. To carve the stone and obtain a bas-relief, this 
writer contends that the workmen covered with ashes the lines of the designs which 
they intended to have in relief, and then heated the whole surface. The parts of the 
stone which were submitted immediately to the action of fire became decomposed to 
a greater or less depth, while the designs, protected by ashes, remained intact. To 
complete the work the sculptor had but to carve out the decomposed rock with his 
copper chisel. 



BUILDING AND OKNAMENTAL STONES. 317 

tber reduced by meaius of wet sand and emery of varying' degrees of 
fineness. Small blocks are now usually ground on a revolving iron 
bed, on which the abrading material is shoveled and kept wet by a 
stream of water from overhead. With larger blocks a heavy slab of 
stone is drawn by the workmen back and forth across the surface on 
which the wet sand has already been placed. On the finer grades of 
white marble emery is not used, as it stains; fortunately, owing to the 
softness of these stones, it is readily dispensed with. After being 
ground, the surface is rubbed by a sharp, evenly gritted sandstone 
called a " hone," and then with pumice-stone. 

On granites it is often customary to give a " skin coat" by rubbing the 
block, after the final emeryiug on the smooth, wet grinding bed, without 
any abrading material, until a perfectly smooth surface and dull polish 
is obtained. When this point is reached — and the surface must be 
quite free from scratches and blemishes, or a good polish is impossi- 
ble — the polish is produced by means of polishing putty (oxide of tin) 
rubbed on with wet felt. In cheap work it is customary to use oxalic 
acid in connection with or entirely in place of the polishing putty. This 
enables the production of a polish with less labor, but it is also less 
durable. 

A high grade of polish can only be produced by skilled workmen, and 
each one has his own peculiar methods, varying in trifling particulars 
from that given above. In many of the larger works where steam 
power is used, it is said to be customary to mix a quantity of very 
finely ground metallic lead with the putty. By this means a higher 
gloss is produced, and also one that is very durable. All the larger 
works now use machinery iu both grinding and polishing. Descriptions 
of these will be given in the following chapter. 

Sundry attempts have been made to utilize the sand-blast process, so 
extensively used in glasswork, for carving on stone; l)ut so far, with 
few exceptions, these attempts have met with but poor success. In 
1875-'7G, Messrs. Sheldon & Slason, of West liutland, having a large 
Government contract in preparing head stones for soldiers' graves in 
national cemeteries, introduced the system with considerable success. 
The process consisted in covering those parts of the stone to be left un- 
cut with an iron shield, while letters and figures of chilled iron were 
placed upon those portions which were to stand out in relief. The blast 
then being directed against the stone cut away very quickly the unpro- 
tected parts. By this means the name, company, regiment, and rank of 
soldiers, could be cut on a stone in less than five minutes, and two hun- 
dred and fifty-four thousand stones thus lettered and having dimensions 
of 3 feet in length, 10 inches iu width, and 4 inches in thickness, were 
placed in the national cemeteries at a cost of but $804,000. Tbe sand- 
blast process has also been used with good results on the hard red 
quartzite of Sioux Falls, as will be noted later. 



318 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

(G) QUARRYING AND SPLITTING SLATE. 

In quarrying slate the methods vary greatly accordiug to the dis. 
position of the beds, and no attempt will be made here at a detailed 
description. Ordinary blasting powder is employed in loosening the 
blocks, and great skill and sagacity is shown by experienced quarry- 
men in so manipulating the blast as to produce the desired eflects of 
freeing the rock from the quarry bed without shattering the stone. 
After a block is removed from the quarry it is subject to special treat- 
ment according to the purpose to which the stone is to be put. If for 
rooting-slate, the block according to Mr. Sperr* is taken from the quarry 
to the splitters' shanty, where it is taken in charge by a splitter and 
his two assistants. The first assistant takes the block and reduces it 
to pieces about 2 inches in thickness, and of a length and breadth a 
little greater than those of the slates to be made. This is done by a 
process called " sculping," which is as follows : A notch is cut in one 
end of the block with the scul])ing chisel, and the edge of this notch is 
trimmed out with a gouge to a smooth groove extending across the end 
of the block and perpendicular to the upper and lower surfaces; the 
sculping chisel is then set into this groove and driven with a mallet 
until a cleft starts, which by careful manipulation is guided directly 
across the block. The upper surface of the block is kept wet with 
water so that the crack may be more readily seen. If the slate is per 
fectly uniform in shape and texture, and the blows upon the sculping 
chisel are directed straight with the grain, the crack follows the grain 
in a straight line across the block. Almost invariably, however, the 
crack deviates to the right or left, when it must be brought back by di- 
recting the blow on the sculp in the direction in which it is desired to 
turn the break, or by striking with a heavy mallet on that side of the 
block toward which it is desired the crack shall turn. Some slates can 
be sculped across the grain, but nearly all must be broken in this di- 
rection. From the first assistant or "sculper" the block goes to the 
splitter who by means of a mallet and broad thin chisel splits it through 
the middle, continuing to thus divide each piece into halves until the 
desired thinness is obtained. It is necessary to keep the edges of the 
blocks moist from the time they are removed from the quarry until they 
are split. From the splitter the thin but irregularly shaped pieces pass 
to the second assistant who trims them into definite sizes and rectangu- 
lar shapes. This is done either by hand or by machine. To trim by 
hand a straight edged strip of iron or steel is fastened horizontally uj)OU 
one of the upper edges of a rectangular block of wood some 2 to 4 feet 
in length. The trimmer then lays the sheet of slate upon the block al- 
lowing the edge to bo trimmed to project over this strip, and then by 
means of a long heavy knife with a bent handle cuts ofi:" the overlying 
edge, thus reducing it to the required size and shape. Two kinds of 
* Report Tenth Censna, Vol, x, p. 3'J. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 319 

machines for doin<^ this work are now in nse. In general they may be 
said to consist of an iron frame-work some 2i feet high, with a hori- 
zontal knife-edge upon its upper edge. Against tliis knife is made 
to work by means of a treadle another knife, curved in outline, which is 
thrown upward again by means of a spring, after being brought down 
by the treadle-movement. At right angles to this knife-edge, on one 
side of the machine, an iron arm projects toward the workman; this 
arm has notches cut into it for the different sizes of the slate. The dif- 
ference between the two kinds of machines is said to consist chiefly in 
the arrangement of the cutting-knife, one working as stated above 
while the other revolves on an axle something in the manner of an 
ordinary corn cutter. 

Slates are sawn by means of an ordinary circular saw, such as is used 
in sawing lumber, and are planed by machines such as are used in 
planing metals, as are other soft stone. Some of the hard slates used 
for tiling have to be cut by means of circular saws with teeth of black 
diamond.* 

(7) KINDS OF FINLSH. 

The more common kinds of finish applied to stone are described be- 
low ; the figures on Plate IV being drawn from samples in the national 
collections. 

(1) Rock face. — This is the natural face of the rock as broken from 
the quarry, or but slightly trimmed down b^- the pitching tool. As in 
this and all the figures given, it is frequently surrounded by a margin 
of drove work. 

(2) Fointed face. — In this finish the natural lace of the rock has been 
trimmed down by means of the sharp pointed tool called a point. It is 
used principally for exterior work, as in the walls of a buihling. Two 
common styles of pointing. are shown. 

(o) Ax-liammer€(lfacc.—T\i\& finish is produced by striking upon the 
surface repeated blows with a sharp-faced hammer, called an ax or pean 
hammer. It closely resembles the next, but is coarser. Used in steps, 
house trimmings!, and other exterior work. 

(4) Patent hammered. — This finish is i)roduced by striking repeated 
blows upon the smooth surface of the rock with the rough-faced imple- 
ment called a patent hammer. Five grades of fineness are commonly 
recognized, the 4-cut, C-cut, 8-cut, 10-cut, and 12-cut surfaces, made by 
hammers composed of four, six, eight, ten, and twelve plates, respect- 
ivel}". A very common finish for the finer kinds of exterior work. 

(5) Bush hammered. — This finish resembles closely the tooth chiseled 
or very fine pointing. It is used mostly on soft stone. (See descriptions 
of bush and patent hammers on p. 329.) 

* Detailed aud very closely resembling accounts of the methods of working slate 
are given by F. W. Sperr, in Eeport Tenth Census, Vol. X, pp. 38-42, and E. Prince, jr., 
report D 3, Vol. i, pp. 138-143, 2d Geol. Survey, Pennsylvania. To these the reader 
is respectfully referred. 



320 REPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

(6) Square drove. — The square-drove surface is made with a wide steel 
chisel with a smooth edge, called a drove. It is quite commou to use 
this style of fiuisli as a border to the rock-face or pointed surfaces in 
many kinds of exterior work. 

(7) Tooth chiseled. — This finish is produced by means of a wide steel 
chisel with an edge toothed like that of a saw. This and the square 
drove are used principally upon limestones, marbles, and sandstones, 
the granites being too hard to be cut in this manner. 

(8) Smvcd face.— This is the surface of the rock as left by the saw; 
the saw use<l for the purpose being a thin smooth blade of soft iron fed 
with sharp sand or chilled iron. This and the following styles, although 
possessing distinctive characteristics easily recognizable by the eye, are 
of such a nature that their likenesses can not be well rei^roduced on 
paper. Hence no attemj^t at illustration has been made. 

(9) Fine sand Jinish. — To produce this finish the chiseled or sawn sur- 
face of the marble is rubbed smooth by means of a block of stone and 
fine wet sand or on the machines yet to be described. 

(10) Pumice Jinish. — This is a very smooth but unpolished surface 
produced by smooth rubbing with pumice or Scotch hone. 

(11) Polished surface. — Two kinds of polished surfaces are made — the 
acid gloss and the putty gloss. For either the surface of the stone is 
made as smooth as possible by means of sand, or emery, and pumice, or 
hone, after which it is rubbed with moist woolen cloth and oxalic acid, 
or polishing putty. The latter produces the best and most lasting gloss, 
but requires more labor. Frequently the two methods are combined, 
especially in tombstone work. 

G.— MACHIiS^ES AND IMPLEMENTS USED IN STONE WORK- 
ING. 

DRILLS AND DRILLING MACHINES. 

Of the many machines that have from time to time been invented for 
working stone we can here mention only the principal ones that are to- 
day in actual use. 

Drills. — The old-time method of drilling by means of a flat pointed 
drill called a "jumper," which is held by one workman while others 
strike upon it alternate blows Avith heavy hammers, although still in 
use in many quarries, has been largely superseded by steam-drills of 
various kinds. A simjile form of the steam-drill, and one now in very 
general use, is that shown in the accompanying figure (page 321). The 
drill proper is fastened directly to the piston, which can be inclined at 
any angle, thus fitting it for ordinary quarrying or for tunneling. It is 
driven either hy steam or by compressed air. A different adaptation of 
the same principle is employed in the channeling and gadding machines 



BUILDING AND OKNAMKNIAL STONE.S. 



321 



ii:-e<l in jiettiD^- out (liiiionsiou sloiic. Fii;uios oi' (Ik\si' aw ;iIso hero, 
j^iveu. Tlie drill :iiid cyliuder arc attaclicd to the horizontal bar bv 




Eclipse, Hock Drill 



■iS"iii:iiil"l'lrlllii'ii|ilihi" iiliill I 'I! ■'" ':\\ i 'M •.■ .,iii,.|i || 'iii .i, li li il i-;.!i«i 
Iiiijirovcil Quarry Dar. 



moans of a clauip, which can be loosened or lightened at will. IJy this 
means a dozen or more holes can be cut by simply sliding the drill along' 
the bar and without moviu"' the entire nuichiue. 



(2) CHANNELING MACHINES. 

The channeling machine shown on page 312 was invented by George 
J. Wardwell, of Eutland, Yt. The lirst successful machine was built by 
him in 18G3, in connection W'ith the Sutherland Frills Marble Coiiii)any, 
and that original macliine lias been at work there constantly until within 
a few months (1885). These machines are now in operation in all the 
important quarries of sandstone, limestone, and marble in the country, 
and it is calculated that over 5,000,000 square feet have been cut by 
them. The channeler is csscutially a locomotive machine driven by 
power, usually steam, moving over a steel rail track which is placed on 
the quarry bed. It carries a single gang-drill on one side, or two such 
drills — one on each side. These are raised and dropped by a lever and 
crank arrangement. The gang of cutters forming the drill is composed 
of five steel bars, 7 to 14 feet in length, sharpened at the ends and se- 
curely clamped together. Of the live cutters, two ha\o diagonal edges ; 
the other three have their edges transverse. The center of the middle 
lar^jGst extends lowest, so that the live form something like a stejiped 
n. Mis. 170, pt. 2 21 



322 



KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



.'irraugeuicut, awaj^ from the center. The drill, lifted, drops with great 
force and rapidly creases a channel into the rock. The single-gang 
machine is operated by two men, the double by three. As it runsback- 
NYard and forward over the rock the machine is reversed without stop- 
ping, and as it goes the cutters deliver their strokes, it is claimed, at 
the rate of one hundred and fifty per minute. The machine feeds for- 
ward on the track half an inch at each stroke, cutting half an inch or 
more every time of passing. The single machine will cut from 40 to 80 
square feet of chnnnel per day in marble or limestone and at a cose of 
from 5 to 20 cents per square foot. The double machine will do twice 
the amount of work. A good workman would formerly cut from 5 to 10 
feet, that is, a groove 1 foot deep and from 5 to 10 feet long per day. 




Saunders Channoliiig Machine with boiler attached. 

For this he would receive from 25 to 30 cents per foot.* Another ma- 
chine for doing the same work as that just described is the Saunders 
channeling machine shown in the illustration, and which has recently 
come into use in the Vermont quarries. This differs from the Wardwell 
in several important particulars, prominent among which are these: (1) 
The cutting tool is attached rigidly to the piston, so that the blow is 
dealt directly by the steam pressure in the cylinder and without the 
intervention of any cranks, levers, or springs. (2) The cutting tools are 

* The Marble Border of Westera New Euglaud, p. 43. 



BU1LDI^'G A\]^ ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



323 



made iuljii.stable iit any angle — to tlie riji'Ut, left, Ibrward, (tr backward. 
The macliine is thus capable of making" transverse and sideliill cuis, 
and does what is known as "cutting out the corners" in ({uarrying; and 
(o) it can be used in chambers where the distance between the floor and 
roof is but G feet and can be used in tunnels and headings. 

!|llll||i'!f''!f''l,, 




''■1' 

■I 

■ '/ 

..3 






Saiiiuk'is f-'haiiueliii^ !Machine makiua; side? ; 



I with boilti-.s (l(;ta(;bcil. 



The machine carries five drills in the gang, with three straight points 
and two. diagonal ones. These are arranged as seen in the accompany- 
ing cut; 




Q^rt^ ef i2i'2hi 



^liiii'S tfgt^n^^ 



The average capacity of the machine, as claimed by the company's 
circuhir, is as foHows : 

III iii;irl)le, 80 to 100 .s(|iiaro feet of cbannol in teu hours. 

Ill saiidstoiio, 150 to ^00 S((uaro feet of channel in ten hours. 

In limestone, I'JO to 150 square feet of channel in ten hours. 

The diamond channeling machine is shown in the liguic on page 324. 
According to the com[)any's circular this machine einph^ys l;|-inch drill- 
bits, which are attached to drill-rods of varying lengths, adapted to any 
required depth of channel up to OJ feet. The channel may be made open 
or partly closed, the latter by leaving slight si)aces between the holes, 
to be afterward chipped out. But the whole operation of a clear cut 
is made simultaneously with the boring by means of an intercutting 
guide, which answers this purpose very well. The drill can be made to 



324 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSICUM, 188G. 



vary in direction from iierpendicnlar to 50 degrees isliiut for putting 
down the tunnel and angle cuts. If necessary the boiler can be left at 
a distance from tlie machine, the steam being conveyed by hose. 




Diauiuud Cbiiuaelin;; MiicLiue. 



(3) GADDING AND GADDING MACHINES. 

The diamond gadder is shown on page 325. According the comjjany's 
circular the machine takes its name from the class of work for which it 
was especially designed and which is know^n among quarriers as " gad- 
ding." When the requisite channel cuts are made about a block of 
marble to be removed, it is necessary to undercut the block in order to 
release it. This is usually accomplished by drilling a series of holes 
beneath it, and then, by wedges, the block is si)lit from its bed. 

The machine is placed upon a platform on trucks arranged to run 
upon a track. When adjusted for work it may be braced by the pointed 
legs shown. The boring apparatus is attached by a swivel to a perpen- 
dicular guide-bar. This guide-bar is secured to the boiler behind it, 
which forms the main support of the machine. Upon the guide-bar the 
boring apparatus may be raised or lowered at pleasure, for the purpose 
of boring a series of holes in a perpendicular line if desired. Upon the 
swivel the boring apparatus may be turned, so as to bore in any direc- 
tion within the plane of the swivel-plate. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



325 



The illustration shows the drill-rotlor s[)in(rie placed near the base of 
the machine, and so as to bore horizontally. At one end of the spindle 
is the drill-head, armed with carbons, and snpi)lied with small aper- 
tures or outlets for water. At the other end of the spindle is attached 
a hose for supplying water to the drill-head. A rapid revolving move- 
ment is communicated to the drill-spiudlo by the gears shown. The 
s])eed and feed movement may be regulated by the o^ierator with reici-- 
ence to the hardness or softness, coarseness or fineness, of the matciial 
to be boi'od ; ;iiid the iVed movement may be instantly reversed ati)l«';is- 
nie. The machine is so constructed that the drill-spindle niay be re- 




Diamouil (ladder. 



moved .and another inseited in the same holder, adjusted to bore in the 
opposite direction, the boiing api)aratus being driven by a double-cylin- 
der engine. A continuation of one of the piston-rods through the cylin- 
der forms the plunger to a small pump placed above the cylinder, which 
supplies water to the boiler and forces water through the drill spindh^ 
and head. These jets of water wash out all the borings made, and keep 
the drill-head from heating. The usual feed of this drill in marble is 
from 4 to 5 inches per minute. 

k^till another style of gadding-machine isused in the Vermont quarries, 
and which is but an especial adaj)taition of the eclii)se drill shown on 
page 32G. It is claimed that this machine will "put in holes close to the 



326 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



bottom of the quany, iu a liorizontal position along the bench, into the 
roof, or perpendicularly into the floor, as desired." 




Plain quarry frame ia position for undercutting or gatlding. 

(4) GRINDING AND POLISHING MACHINES. 

In the larger works the griudiug and polishing already described is 
now done by steam power. For Hat surfaces a circular, horizontally 
revolving iron plate or grating, attached to the lower end of a vertical 
shaft, with elbow joint, is used, the workman guiding it to any portion of 
the surface he may desire by means of the handle; the abrading sub- 
stance being sand or emery, as before. With felt attached to the plate 
the same form of machine is also used for polishing. Blocks of such 
size as ca'.i be handled by the workmen are usually ground upon hori- 
zontally-revolving iron beds some 8 or 10 feet in diameter. 








Ingersol Standard Gadder at work. 

In making straight or only slightly-curved moldings the form is lirst 
carved out with the chisel, and then a plate of cast iron, fitted as accu- 
rately as iiossible, is made, by means of a long arm, to travel back and 
forth over the stone with sand or emery, or putty powder and felt, as 
the case may be. These arc called pendulum machines. The actual 
labor is thus greatly reduced, and a higher and more lasting polish 
obtained than is possible by the old hand methods. 



BUILDING AND OENAME^nTAL STONES. 327 

Cc) LATHES AND PLANERS. 

For turuiug posts and pillars lathes are uow very generally used for 
granite as well as for softer stone. In easy working varieties, as sand 
s\one, limestone, or serpentine, the cutting tool is a simple chisel, much 
like that used in turning metals, and held in a clamp iu the same nuin- 
ner. With the harder rocks, like the granite, however, this method is 
inefifectualj and the cutting tool is iu the form of a thin steel disk some 
G or 8 inches in diameter, which is so arranged as to revolve with tlic-, 
stone in the lathe when pressed against it at a sharp angle. By tliis 
means large aud beautiful columns can be made at far less cost than 
by the old hand processes. 

A monster machine of this character, seen by the writer in the Vimil- 
haven quarries in 1880, is capable of taking a block 25 feet in length 
aud 5 feet in diameter and turning it down to a perfect coluiun. 

With the softer varieties of stone a, plain surface, sufliciently smooth 
for flagging, is produced bj* means of planing-machines similar to tliose 
in use for planing metals. For doing tlic same work on hard nuiteiia! 
like granite a planer, witli revolving cutting disks of chilled iron, simihir 
to those used in the lathes, lias been de\ise(l. This machine is shown 
in the accompanying figure, page 328. 

(Ci) MACHINES FOR SAWING. 

In sawing marble and other soft stones the same method, with some 
modifications, is employed as was in use, according to Professor Seeley,* 
three hundred years before the Christian era. 

The principle consists simply of a smooth fiat blade of soft iron, set 
in a frame aud fed with sharp sand and water. The saws are now fre- 
quently set in gangs of a dozen or more in a single frame, and several 
gangs are tended by one man, who shovels on the wet sand as it is 
needed, while tine streams of water from overhead wash it beneath the 
blade as it swings backward and forward in its slowly dee]>ening groove. 
Some attempts at automatic feeders have been made, but they are not 
as yet in general use. 

This method has been found inapplicable to cutting granite, owing to 
the greater hardness of the material. Keceutly a sand composed of 
globules of chilled iron has been used to good advantage. Tiie great 
drawback to the use of this material, so fiir as the author has observed, 
is the care necessary to avoid staining the stone by rust from the wet 
globules during the time the machine is not running. This is done by 
wetting down the stone and globules in the saw frame with a thick so- 
lution of lime-water (whitewasii) prior to leaving the saws for the 
7'ight. Circular saws, with diamond teeth, have been used to some ex- 

* The Marble Border of Western New England. Proc. Middlebury,.Hist. Soc. Vol. 
I, Part II, p. 28. 



328 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MlJSl^UM, 188G. 



tent, but have been fonnd too expensive for ordinary work. In sawing 
slate circular saws are used, such as are employed in sawing lumber. 
Philo Tomlinson, who was engaged in marble sawing at Marbledale, 
Comi., near the date 1800, is stated by Professor Seeley* to have been 
one of the first to successfully apply the gang-saw system in this 
country. 

For sawing circular apertures in the tops of wash-stands or getting 
out tops for small tables a saw made of plates of soft iron bent into 
the form of a cylinder and revolved by a vertical shaft is used. Sand 
emery, or globules of chilled iron form the cutting material, as in the 
saws just mentioned. 




McDonald Stouo Cntting Machine. 

A recent European invention for sawing stone consists of a twisted 
cord of steel, made to run around ])ulleys. like a band-saw. The cord is 
composed of three steel wires loosely twisted together, but stretched 
tightly over the pulleys, and is made to run at a high rate of speed. 
The swift successive blows from the ridges of the cord, delivered along 
the narrow line, disintegrates the stone much more rapidly, it is claimed, 
than the iron blades fed with sand, the usual rate of cutting in blocks of 

*0p. fil., !>. 2!). 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 329 

soft limestone being at tlic rate of about 24 inches an hour, and in Car- 
rara marble a little more than 9 inches an hour. Brittany granite is cut 
at the rate of nearly 1| inches an hour, and even porphyry can be worked 
at the rate of eight tenths of an inch an hour. In certain Belgian mar- 
ble quarries the saw is said to have been used to advantage in cutting the 
rock fiom the quarry bed. In thus utilizing it the floor is iirst cleared as 
for channeling machines, and then, by means of large cylindrical drills, 
fed with metallic sand, a shaft 27 inches in diameter is cut to the desired 
depth, the cores being removed entire, as in the common tubular dia- 
mond drills, Two of these Iiolcs are sunk at jiroper distances apart 
and guides set up in them, on which move frames carrying pulleys of 
a diameter somewhat less than that of the holes; over these pulleys the 
cord-saw is stretched; motion is then imparted to the pulleys by a sim- 
ple system of transmission, and the saws cut without interruption until 
the bottom of the drill pit or shafl is reached.* A great saving of 
time and material is clainsed for this invention, but although it seems 
to proniise well none are at present iu use in this country, nor has the 
author ever had ojiportunity for examining oue.t 

(7) Tlli: SAND BLAST. 

As already noted, the sand blast has been utilized to some extent in 
the work of lettering head-stones, and for producing delicate tracings on 
the Sioux Falls quartzite. That the process is still so little used is due, 
as I am informed, to the opposition of trades-unions, and not to any 
deliciency of adaptability in the process itself. 

(S) HAND IMPLEMENTS. 

Face hammer. — This is a heavy square-faced hammer, weighing from 
15 to 25 pounds, and used for roughly shaping the blocks as they 
come from the (piarry. It is sometimes made with both faces alike or 
again with one face flat and the other drawn out into a cutting edge 
(Fig. 10, PI. v). The cavil differs only in having one face drawn out 
into a pyramidal point. 

Ax or pean hammer. — A hammer made with two opposite cutting- 
edges, as seen in Fig. 13, PI. v. The edges are sometimes toothed 
roughly, when it is called the toothed ax. 

I'afenI or hnsh hammer. — A hammer made of fOur, six, eight, ten, or 
more thin blades of steel, bolted together so as to form a single piece, 
the striking faces of which are deeply and sharply grooved. This ham- 
mer is said to have been invented by Mr. Jose]»h Kichards, of (^>uiiicy, 
Mass., about lS31-'40. As hrst constructed the head was comjiosed of 
a single piece, instead of several, as now (see Fig. 12, PI. v). In some 
works this is called the bush hammer. 



*A 111. Arch, juid Build. News, Nov. 7, Ir-'S'). 

t Tliis app.aratns is lij^nrcd and dcscrihcd in tlic SciciiMdc, Aiiicricaii Air Miucli 
G, I88G, p. 147. 



330 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

CrandaU. — This consists of a bar of malleable iron, about 2 feet in 
lengtb, and slightly flattened at one end, through which is a slot three- 
eighths of an inch wide and 3 inches long. Through this slot are passed 
ten double-headed points of one-fourth inch square steel, 9 inches long, 
which are held in [dace by a key.* 

The writer has never seen this instrument in use. 

Hand hammer. — A smooth-faced hammer, with two striking faces, 
weighing from 2 to 5 i)ounds. It is used for hand-drilling, pointing, and 
chiseling in the harder kinds of rocks (sec Fig. IG, PI. v). Tlie usual 
form has both faces alike. 

JUallet— This is a wooden implement, with a cylindrical head, used in 
I)lace of the hammer in cutting the softer stones, as marbles and sand- 
stones (Fig. 15, PL V). 

Sledfjc or stril'ing hammer. — A heavy, smooth-faced hammer, weigh- 
ing from 10 to 25 pounds, used in striking the drills in hand-drilling or 
in driving large wedges for splitting stone. Fig. 11, PI. v. 

FicJc. — An instrument resembling the ordinary pickax used in digging, 
but somewhat shorter and stouter. It is used on the softer varieties 
of stones for rough dressing or for channeling prior to wedging. 

Pitching chisel. — A steel chisel, the cutting face of which is rectangu- 
lar in outline and with sharp angles or corners. It is used for trim- 
ming down the edges to a straight line. See Fig. 7, PI. v. The chipper 
(Fig. 6) is used for very similar purposes. 

Chisel or drove. — This is a steel chisel, the cutting edge of which is 
drawn out wide and thin as shown in Fig. 2, PI. v. It is used ]irinci- 
pally on the softer varieties of rock in producing the so-called "drove 
work." 

Splitting chisel. — A steel chisel, made as shown in Fig. 8, PI. V, and 
used for splitting and general cutting on hard stone like granite. Other 
forms of chisels, used only on soft stone and driven with the wooden 
mallet, are shown in Figs. 3 and 9. 

Tooth chisel. — A chisel like the drove chisel, but with the edge toothed 
like a saw (see Fig. 1, PI. V), used only on soft stones like marble and 
sandstones. 

Point. — A steel implement, with the cutting end in the form of a i^yra- 
midal point (see Fig. 4, PI. v), used in the iiroduction of the tinish 
known as point work and also in the smoothing down of rough surfaces 
prior to using the ax or some other tool for line work. Points for use 
on hard stone and driven by the hammer have the upper end iinisljed 
as sliown in Figs. G and 7. 

Wedge or plug. — Steel wedges vary greatly in size. Those used in the 
process of si)litting, called plug and feather (Fig. 11, PI. V), are but two 
or 3 inches in length, while those used in quarrying for splitting off 
large blocks are often a foot or more long and correspondingly large. 

Hand drill. — A small steel drill from 8 to 15 inches in length, held in 
* Mau. and Builder, Feb. 1885, p. 38. 



Report of National Museum, 1886 - Merrill 



Plate V. 




' \i' 



C^Ul [}] 






r 










\ 


X 




/7 














p 






^■^ 


j^^ 


^^^ 


^^ 






J 



Tools used in Stone-cutting. 



BUILDING AND 0RNAMP:NTAL STONES. 331 

one band and driven by tlieluiud-liammer (Fig. 5), used in inakiiiy; holes 
for " plug and feather" splitting and other light work. 

Gruh saw. — A saw for cutting stone by hand. It consists of a plate 
of soft iron from one-twentieth to one-tenth of an inch in thickness and 
Iroin inches to 4 feet in length ; the blade is notched on the lower edge 
and lifted with a wooden back for convenience in handling and to pre- 
vent bending. Sand or emery is the cutting material, as with the steam 
saws (Fig. IT, PI. V). 

H.— THE WEATHERING OF BUILDING STONES. 

The term weathering, as ai)plied to stone, includes the series of phys 
ical changes induced by alternations of heat and cold, or by friction, as 
well as the more complex series of chemical changes, such as may be 
comprised under the heads of oxidation, deoxidation, hydration, and 
solution. Since a stone exposed in the walls of a building may be sub- 
jected to the inliuence oi'any one or the combined influences of several 
of these agencies, whereby serious consequences, as of discoloration or 
disintegration may lesult, it is im[>oriant to consider, in more or less 
detail, their comparative energies under varying conditions and upon 
the various kinds of stone commonly employed for structural purposes. 

(1) rnVSICAL AGENCIES. 

Heat and cold. — It is safe to say that none of the conditions under 
which a stone is commonly ])laced are more trying than those ])resented 
by the ordinary clianges Of temperature in a climate like that of our 
Northern and Eastej-n States. Stones, as a rule, possess but a low con- 
ducting power and slight elasticity. They are aggregates of minerals, 
more or less closely cohering, each of which possesses degrees of ex- 
pansion and contraction of its own. In the crystalline rocks these dis- 
similar elements are practically in actual contact; in the sandstones 
they are removed from one another by a slight space occui)ied wholly 
or in part by a ferruginous, calcareous or siliceous cement. As tem- 
[>j'ratures rise, each and every constituent expands more or less, crowd- 
ing with resistless force against its neighbor; as the temperatures 
decrease a corresponding contraction takes place. Since with us the 
temperatures are ever changing, and within a space of even twenty-four 
hours nuw vary as much as forty degrees, so within the mass of the 
stone there is continual movement among its particles. Slight as these 
nu)vements may be they can but be conducive of one result, a slow and 
gradual weakening and disintegration. 

This (constant expansion and contraction is often sufticient in an)ount 
to be ai)preciable in stone struct ures of (considerable size. Thus liunker 
Hill Monument, a hollow granite obelisk, 2131 feet liigh by 30 feet square 
at (he base, swings from side to side with the [)rogress of the sun during 



332 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

a sunny day, so that a pendulum suspended from the center of tbe top 
describes an irregular ellipse nearly half an inch in greatest diameter.* 

Under such circumstances as these it is not at all strange that many 
stones show a decided weakening and tendency to disintegration after 
long exposure, and particuhirly on those sides of buildings exposed 
longest to the sun, and which are, therefore, subject to the full range of 
temperature variaticms. Professor Julieu has called attention to the 
marked decay thus produced on the western face of the tombstones in 
Trinity church-yard and elsewhere. It is stated further that the ashlar 
base of the steeple of the church at Thirty seventh street and Fifth 
avenue, ISTew York City, is beginning to exfoliate from this cause on 
the south side (where the sun shines the longest) but not on the north 
and east. Other examples are seen on the stone stoops of the east and 
west streets, where the western face of the dark-brown sandstone is 
badly disintegrated and exfoliated, while the eastern face remains much 
]or,ger in a perfect condition. The author has observed similar effects, 
but in a less marked degree, on the Smithsonian building, at Washing- 
ton, D. C. The south and west sides frequently show exfoliation, while 
the north and east, upon which the sun shines but a small portion of 
the day, are almost untouched. 

This same expansion and contraction of stone sometimes produces 
disastrous effects other than those of disintegration within its own mass. 

The difQculty of obtaining permanently tight joints even with the 
strongest cements led Colonel Totten to institute a series of experi- 
ments with a view to ascertain the actual expansion and contraction of 
granite, sandstone, and marble when subjecied to ordinary tempera- 
tures. Upwards of thirty experiments on each of these varieties of 
stone showed the rate of expansion and contraction, which seemed to 
be uniform throughout the range of temperatures employed, to be for 
granite .00()0()4825 inch per foot each degree Fahrenheit : for marble 
.000005CGS inch, and for sandstone, .000009532 inch.t 

Supposing, then, two coping stones each 5 feet long be laid in midsum- 
mer at a temperature of 90° Fahr. In winter the temperature falls to 
zero, a change of 9Go. If the stones contract toward their centers, the 
whole length of stone put in motion will be 5 feet. In the case of gran- 
ite, then, the shrinkage amounts to .027792 inch, in marble .03204 inch, 
and in sandstone to .054914 inch. This shrinkage, small as it seems, 
from necessity gives rise to cracks at the joints, which admit the pas- 
sage of water; continual shrinkage and expansion must in time crum- 
ble the cement and leave the joint ])ermanently open.l 

The effects of moderate temperatures upon stone of ordinary dryness 
are, however, slight when compared with the destructive energies of 

' Dim.T., Manual of Geology p. 72(1. 

tAdio fonnd llio rato of expan.siou for i^rariito to bo .000004:58 inch, and for white 
uiarl.lo, .00000()l:) in.— TraiiB. Roy. Soc. Edin., xiii. p. :\(\Ck 

t W. II. C. Bartlett on Contrnctioii and lOxp.-iiisioii of Uiiilding Stouo. Am. Jour. 
Sci.,Vol. XII, 18:5i, p. 13fi. 



BUILDING AND OKNAMENTAL «TONES. 33.'> 

I'reeziiijj;' lempi'iatiuvs upon fstones s;itur;it(,'(] witii uioistuic At a Ilmii 
peratuie of .KP Falir. tlie j>n\ssuio exerted h.y walc' passiiiij,- iVoiii a li(jiii<l 
to a solid state ainoimts lo not leys than 138 tons to tlie stinan; Coot, or 
as I'rotessor Geikie has stiiUiu.^ly pur it, is e(jnal to the weiyht of eol- 
unm of ice a unle high. Is it, then, astonishing" that a j)orons sandstone 
exi)osed in a house-l'iont to be saturated by a winters rain and then, 
snbjccted to tenii)eratures j>erha})s several <legrees l)elo\v the iVeezing 
point sliows signs of weakness and exfoliation after a single season's 
exposure f 

Since, then, as every (juarry man kiufws, iu> stone, liowever shong, 
can eixlure the enormous strain to which it would be subject if fro/en 
solid when holding any considerable amount of water conlined wiihin 
its ])ores, it is but natural to conclude, as a matter of course, that otliei' 
things being e(jua) those stones are most durable which will a.bsori)and 
retain the least moisture.* 

This rule is not to be accepted, however, without a considerabl-.' giain 
of allowance, since a coarsely j)orous stone, though capable of taking 
up a large anujunf of moisture will also j)art with il readily, or ii' frozeii 
while saturated Avill permit a considerable ])roportiou of tiic ex[>ansi\e 
force of the solidifying water to l)e expeiuled otherwise lliai' in i)ush- 
ing a}>art tbc grains composing ir. (Otherwise expressed, the water will 
freeze out of u coarsely porous stone, winle in one that is com[)act it 
may create sad havoc. This is well illustrated by the common occur- 
rence of water freezing in straight cylindrical or widelyexpaudiug ves- 
sels, and in uarrow-uech(Ml ])itchers and bottles. In the first instance 
the opeu space above is suilicieut to allow all the expansion to take 
place vertically. The lutrrow-necked vessel, on the other hand, is almost 
invariably broken. 

To ascertain, then, the porosity or ratio of absor})tion of any sti>ne is 
an important test.t 

Obviously the best method of ascertaining the power of a stone; to 
withslan<l the eli'ects of liost is to actually expose prei)ar('d Ijlocks to 
such a temperature, wiien saturated with water, as to freeze them st)lid 
and then note the amoum of disintegration, or loss in strength. Un- 

* •' Otlicr things being (U|n;il, it may prol)abl3' l)(5sai(l liiat the vulno of a stone Coi- 
Ijuilding ])urposL's is invcrstly as ils poiosity or al)sorI)ing powci-." (Hunt, Cliuin. 
and Gcol. Ksstiys, p. Kil.) 

tflunt ill a SL'iic'8 of tests olitaiiicd results as follows: 

Potsdam sandstone, Canada, abi-orbed iVoin ('.50 to li.'Jti i)er eent. in twenty-four 
Lours. 

Medina sandstone, Canada, absoi lied iVoiii '.\.'M (o 1.04 per eent. in twenty-lour 
hours. 

yub- Carboniferous saiidslone, Ohio, absorbrd iVoin '.l.f/.l to 10. 'J2 [)er cent, in twenty- 
four hours. 

Lower Silurian iiniestoin\s ;!nd doloniiirs, Canada, .-ibsoibed from 0.11 to ;").!'>.'') ])er 
eent. in twcnty-iour lioiirs. 

Tertiary limestones, (.'aeii, I'ranee, abforlx-d from l.'> to Ki.d.") j)er ei'iit. in twenty- 
four hours. 



334 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



Ibrtunately tbis can uot at all times of the year aud in all places be 
(lone, and artificial methods must be resorted to. Brard's process, as 
modified by M. Hericart and Tlinry, consisted in boiling the cube to be 
experimented upon for half an hour in a saturated solution of sulphate 
of soda (Glauber salt) and then allowing it to dry, when tlie salt taken 
into the pores crystallized aud expanded.in a manner supposedly some- 
what similar to that of water when freezing.* 

This process is not now in general use, as experiment has shown that 
the salt exercised a chemical as well as mechanical action, and jHoduces 
results somewhat at variance with that of freezing water. The most 
important series of experiments ever performed with the process in 
this country were those of Mr. C. G. Page, made with reference to the 
selection of material for the Smithsonian Institution Building at Wash- 
ington. 

The results are given in the following tablet 



Materials. 



Marbli\ close-drained, Maryland 

Marble, coarse " alum stone," Baltimore Coimty, Md 

Marble, blue, Maryland 

Saiidstoue coarse, "Portland. Conn 

Sandstone, tine, Portland, Conn 

Sandstone, red. Seneca Cieek, Md 

Sauilstone, dove-c<d(i!ed, Seneca Creek, Md 

Sandstone, Little Falls. N. J 

Sandstone, Liltle Fall.s, IST. J 

Sandstone, coarse, Nova Scotia 

Sandstone, d;irk, coarse, Seneca Aqueduct, I'cters's quarry. 

Sandstone, Acquia Creek, Va 

Sandstone, 4 miles above Peters's quarry, Md 

Sandstone, Beaver Bam quarry, Md 

Granite, Port Deposit, Md 

Marble, close-grained, Montsomery County, I'a 

Limestone, blue, Moutsomei-y County, Pa 

Granite, Great Falls of the Potomac - 

Soft brick '- -■ 

Hard brick 

Marble, coarse- dolomite, M ount Pleasant, N. Y 



Specific 
gravity. 



.834 
.857 
.613 



.583 
.672 
.480 

.'482 
.518 



230 



.609 
.727 
.G9SJ 



Loss in 
grains. 



0.19 
0.50 
0.34 

14.36 

24.93 
0.70 
1.78 
1.58 

•0.62 
2.16 
5.60 

18.60 
L58 
1.72 
5. 05 
0.35 
0.28' 
0.35 

16.46 
L07 
0.91 



The specimens operated ui)on, it sliould be stated, were cut in the form 
of inch cubes. Each was immersed for half an hour in the boiling 
solution of sulphate of soda, and then hung up to dry, this perform- 
ance being repeated daily throughout; the four weeks which the exi)er- 
iment lasted. 

The injurious effects of artificial heat, such as is produced by a burn- 
ing building, arc, of course, greater in i)roportion as the temperature is 
higher. Unfortunately sufficient and reliable data are not at hand for 
estimating accurately the comparative enduring powers .of various 
stones under these trying circumstances. It seems, however, to be well 
proven that of all stones granite is the least fire-proof, while the fact 
that certain of the fiue-grained siliceous sandstones are used for furnace 

* Chateau, Techuologie Dii Balinieut, Vol. i, p. 2G2. 

tFrom Hints ou Public Arcliitecturo by Robert Dale Owen, p. 119. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 335 

l)iU'kiiii;s would >seein to show lliat il' not absolutely liic proui', tliey are 
very nearly so.* 

It must be vemeuibered, bowever, that the sudden cooling of the 
surface of a heated stone, caused by repeated dashes of cold water, has 
often more to do with its disintegration than heat alone. 

Ejects of friction. — The amount of actual wear to which stones in the 
walls of a building are subjected is naturally but slight in comparison 
with those in the sills, steps, and walks, which are subject to the fi ic 
tion of feet and other agencies. Nevertheless it is suflicient in many 
cases to beconu^ appreciable after the lapse of several years. The 
striking effect produced by wind blown sands in the Western States 
and Territories has often been alluded tot and even in the Eastern 
States, as at Cape Cod, Massachr.setts, there may fre(iuently be seen^ 
Avindow-panes so abr;jded by blowing sand as to be no longer trans- 
pa rent.:j: 

This same abrading process is going on in all city streets, where the 
wind blows dust and sand shari)ly against the faces of the buildings; 
not with suflicient force, it may be, to perceptibly w^car away the fresh 
stone, but yet forcibly enough to crumble away the small particles 
already loosened by atmospheric decomposition and thus expose new 
surfaces to be acted upon. Professor Egleston§ states that in many of 
the churchyards of Xew York City the efl'ects of this abrasive action 
can be seen where the stones face in the direction of the prevailing 
winds. In such cases the stones are sometimes worn very nearly smooth 
and are quite illegible from this cause alone. 

Effects of growing orgcminms. — It is in such exposed situations, as 
above mentioned, that a stone is often protected from serious loss by a 
coatingof lichens or mosses, which by growing over its surface shield 
it from the abrasive action. The full effect of growing organisms u[)on 
the surface of stones is still, how-ever, a matter of dispute. By some 
authorities H it is thought that they give rise to small amounts of organi<; 
acids which exercise a coriosive influence. By others they are con- 
sidered as beneficial, since they protect the stone from the sun's rays 
and the rain and wind. It seems probable that they may exert either 
a harmful or ben-eficial action according to the kind of stone on which 



* Cutting's experiments (Weekly Underwriter) showed that up to the point at 
which they are converted into quicklime (that of bright redness), limestones are U-ss 
injured by heat than either granite or sandstones, a result not fully 'uorne out by the 
experiments of Winchell (Geo], of Minn., Vol. l, p. 11)7-201). 

t On the Grooving and Polishing of Hard Rocks and Minerals by Dry Sand. W. 
1'. IJlake. Proc. A. A. A. S., Providence meeting. 

t There is on exhibition in the National Museum a plate of glass fornu rly a. window 
ill the light-house at Nausct Beach, Massachusetts, that was so abraded by wind- 
blown sand during a storm of not above forty-eight hours' duration as to be no longer 
serviceable. The grinding is as eomphjte over Hie entire .siuiace as tliongh done h}j 
artificial means. 

§ Am. Arch., September 5, 1885, p. 13. 

II See Winchell, Geol, of MinR-, Yq\. ;, p. 188. 



336 



EEPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



tliey grow iiud its enviromnent. Mure observations are necessary be- 
fore aitytbing detiiiite can be said.* 

(2) CHEMICAL AGENCIES. 

Composition of the atmosphere. — Tbe atmosi)here in its normal state 
consists of a mecbanical admixture of nitrogen and oxygen in about tbe 
proi)ortions of four volumes of tbe former to one of tbe latter, togetber 
witb minute quantities of carbonic acid, ammonia, and vapor of water. 
Jn tbe vicinity of large manufacturing cities, bowever, it carries iu addi- 
tion to increased proportions of carbonic acid,t appreciable quantities 
of sulpburoug, sulpburic, nitric, and bydrocblori(; acids. Tbese, wbeu 
brougbt by raius into contact witb tbe Avails of buildings, are capable, 
tbrongboui many years of time, of producing maibed eifects, especially 
wlien aided by tbe extreme diurnal ranges of temperature common in 
tbe eastern and nortbern United States.| 

* The vegetation of microscopic liclieus tates place upon the surface of the stone, 
when, from any cause, that surface becomes roughened so as to atforil a hxlgmeut foi' 
the see<Ls or sjtorcs of these phiuts. These growing, still further hasten the disinte- 
gration of the stone, and accumulating about them the fine dust floated by the at. 
mosphere becomes points for the absorption of more water, which, on Ireezing, still 
further roughens the surface, and the patch of lichen gradually extends. These 
lichens often gain attachment upon the surface of a ihioly dressed stone, from some 
little inequality of texture, or from softer material that more. readily becomes dccoui- 
jiosed or more readily accommodates the growth of the plant. Such stones in time 
become partially, or entirely covered by lichens, and present an unsightly aspect. 
The amount and degree of this growth varies with position in reference to the sun 
aud with a more or less elevated situation. 

It should not bo forgotten, however, that any stone giving root to lichens is not 
one of those which most easily disintegrates, for in these the destruction goes on so 
rapidly that the surface does not allow the growth of such i)lants. The lichen-covered 
jOcks in nature are usually those of great strength and durability. None of the softer 
or rapidly decaying rocks produce ,this vegetation. (Rep. on Building Stones by 
James Hall, 1868, pp. 54 aud .%.) 

t Twenty-one tests of the air iu various parts of Bo.ston during the spring of lyJU 
yielded Mr. Pearson 385 parts of carbonic acid in 1,000,000. Eleven tests of the win- 
ter air of Cambridge yielded Mr. Hill 337 ])arts of the acid iu 1,000,000 (Second An- 
nual Keport Massachusetts State Board of Health, 1871, p. 52). Dr. Kidder found the 
outdoor air of Washington to contain from 387 to 448 parts in 1,000,000. Mr. Angus 
Siuith (Air and Rain, p. 52), after an elaborate series of experiments, reports the air 
of Manchester (England) to contain on an average 442 parts of the acid iu 1,000,000. 

I Dr. Smith {op. cii.) found the proportious of these acids in London, Liverpool, ■ 
aud Manchester to be as follows : 





Sulplmric. Hyihochloric. Nitric. 


LiCrtlitics. 


Grains per 
gallon. 


Parts per Grains per 
niiliion. jiallon. 


Parts per Grains per 
million. pallou. 


Parts per 
million. 


London 

lyiveipool 


1.434.-> 
2.7714 
2.9163 


20, 49 . 0872 

.'in..^9 1 .7no 

41.06 .40;.;-) 


1.250 

10.16 

5.79 




.840 
.582 




.886 









Ho also found the total acids for Manchester to average for 1870 3.7648 grains per 
jallon. It should be noted, however, that these acids were not considered as existing 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 337 

Chemical action of the atmosphere. — The scries of cluu!,i;es induced by 
these ageiicies are, as above indicated, cliemical in tlieir nature and may 
all, as first sugi^ested be couveniently grouix'd under the heads of 
oxidation, deoxidation, hydration, and solution. These may as well 
be considered in the order given. 

Oxidation. — The process of oxidation is commonly conlined to those 
stones which carry some form of iron as one of their constituent parts. 
If the iron exists as a sulphide (pyrite or marcasite), it very probably 
combines with the oxygen of the air on exjiosure^ forming the various 
oxides of iron such as are popularly kuowu as " rust." If tlie sulphide 
occurs scattered in small particles throughout a sandstone the oxide 
is disseminated more evenly through the mass of the rock, and aside 
from a slight yellowing or mellowing of the color, as in certain of the 
Ohio sandstones, it does no harm. Indeed, as suggested by Professor 
Winchell, * it may result in positive good, by supplying a cement to the 
iudividual grains, and thus increasing the tenacity of the stone. In all 
other than sandstones, however, the presence of a readily oxidizable sul- 
phide is a serious defect, since crystalline rocks require no such cement, 
and the change in color can in very few cases be considered other than 
a blemish. This is well illutftrated in some of the lower courses of 
granite in the new capitol building at Albany, ISlew York, to which 
reference has already been made. More than this, the pjrite, in decom- 
posing in contact with the gaseous atmosphere of cities, may give rise to 
small quantities of sulphurous and sulphuric acids, which by their cor- 
rosive action upon the various mineral constituents of the stone render it 
l)orous and more liable to the destructive effects of frost. (See p. 301.) 
The conversion by oxidation of a sulphide into a sulphate is moreover 
attended with an increase in volume ; there is thus brought to bear a 
mechanical agency to aid in the work of disintegration. 

Iron in the form of a ferrous carbonate is a common constituent of 
many calcareous rocks, and in the form of other readily decomposable 
protoxide compounds occurs not infrequently in the cementing material 
of fragmental rocks lyiug below the water level. All these compounds 
are susceptible to oxidation on exposure to atmospheric influences, and 
to these, more than to the })resence of sulphides is presumably due the 
mellowing commonly observed in white marble or the light gray sub- 
Carboniferous sandstones. 

ill tlio atinospliore entirely in an iincoiubincd .state, but wore i>robably in large part 
combined Avitli otLcr snbstancea to form cliloriile.s, sulphates, etc. L. P. Grata- 
cap (School of Mines Quarterly, May, 188.'>, p. :5:?5), from a series of tests at Stateu 
Island, New York, computed the entire amount of chlorine brought down by the 
rains during 1884 to have been some 4G.23 pounds for each acre of ground. This is 
regarded as in large part combined with sodium to form sodium chloride (common 
salt). Egleston (Cause and Decay of Building Stone, p. 5) estimates that the 4,500,000 
tons of coal annually burnt in New York City discharge into the air 78,750 tons of 
sulphuric acid. In (55 cubic centimeters of rain-water caught during an exposure of 
forty-ono days, this same authority found 4.J- milligrams of sulphuric acid, 
•Geol. of Minn., Vol. I, ]). 189. 

H, Mis. 170, pt. 2 23 



338 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Iron, iu the form of magnetite — a mixture of tlie ferrous and ferric 
oxides — is liable to still further oxidation, becoming converted wholly 
into the hydrous or anhydrous ferric oxide. Thus, if abundant, the 
lock assumes a rusty hue, and i^erhaps graduallj^ falls away to a coarse 
sjiiul, as is the case with certain of our diabases.* 

■ Black mica, hornblende, augite, and other silicate minerals rich iu iron 
are also liable on long exposure to change through the further oxidation 
of this ingredient, but when a stone is i>laced high and dry, as in the 
walls of a building, this change must necessarily be so slow as to be of lit- 
tle moment, though of the greatest importance from a geological stand- 
point. Mr. AVolff, however, statest that tombstones of diabase in ceme- 
teries about Boston have in some cases turned a rust-brown color, the 
change apparently occurring iu the hornblende and augite. Thefeldspars 
of the granites used iuthis same city were also observed in many cases 
to have become liver-brown, rusty-red, or yellow owing to the higher 
oxidation of the iron contained by them. 

Deoxidation. — The process of deoxidation, whereby a ferric is changed 
to a ferrous oxide, is jjossible generally only iu presence of organic 
acids and continual moisture. It is likely, therefore, to aflect only those 
stones used for foundations, and need not be further considered here. 
The same may be said in regard to hydration, whereby an anhydrous 
is changed to a hjxlrous oxide. The blotching and variegation of beds 
of sandstone, as those of Marquette, Mich., is due to the deoxidation 
and hydration of the iron oxides forming their cement, together with a 
])artial removal of the same by the aid of organic acids. Such changes 
are presumably possible only in the quarry bed or in moist foundations 
and bridge abutments. , 

Solution. — The subject of solution can not, however, be passed over 
so lightly. Pure water alone is practically without efl'ect on all stones 
used for building ])urposes. Kain-water, however, as already noted, 
may contain appreciable quantities of various acids which greatly add 
to its solvent power, as the rapid destruction of certain classes of 
rocks only too well attests. Carbonate of lime, the material of ordi- 
nary marbles and limestones, is particularly susceptible to the solvent 
action of these acids even when they are present in extremely minute 
quantities, and to this agent is largely due the rapid defacement of the 
marble tombstones iu church-yards and the marble faced buildings in 
cities. 

It is to the ready solubility of calcium carbonate that is due in large 
part the poor weathering qualities of sandstones with calcareous cem- 
ents. The calcite is slowl^^ removed by solution ; the silicious grains thus 
become loosened, and, falling away under the influence of wind and rain, 

* Iu one p.art of the dikes that form the Hiuigiug Hills at Meriden, Couu., the rock 
(diabase) is quite black, and the amount of iron (nearly 14 i)er cent, of magnetite) 
has been the cause of rapid disintegration. Hawes, Am. Jour. Sci., Vol. ix^ M. 
1S75, p. 188. 

t Rep. Tenth Census. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 339 

expose fresh surfaces to be acted upon. Certain of the ferragiuous 
cements are likewise susceptible to tlie inlhience of the aciduhited rains, 
though the anhydrous oxides occurring in the Potsdam stones are, ac- 
cording to Julien, less soluble tlian are the hydrated forms occurring in 
those of Triassic age.* The feldspars of granites and other rocks are 
also susceptible to the same influence, though naturally in a nuich less 
degree. The acidulated rains aided by the disintegration produced by 
lemperature changes may in time partially remove, in the form of car- 
bonate, the alkalies — potash and soda — and the rock slowly disinte- 
grates into sand and clay. The feldspars of the gneiss, used so ex- 
tremely in years past in and about Philadelphia, are said to have proved 
peculiarly liable to this change^ and it has been found necessary in many 
instances to paiiit some of the older structures formed from it to avoid 
serious disintegration. 

(3) INDUKATION OP^ STONE ON EXPOSURE. 

The changes produced by weathering are not in all cases those of de- 
composition. All stones, and especially the limestones and sandstones, 
undergo at first a process of hardening on being removed from the 
<puirry or when exposed iu the quarry bed, as will be noted further 
on. This hardening is explained by i^ewberry and others on the sup- 
position that the water with which the stones are i)ermeated, holds iu 
solution, or at least in suspension, a small amount of siliceous, calca- 
reous, ferruginous or clayey matter. On exposure to the atmosphere 
this quarry water, as it is technically called, is drawn by capillarity to 
the surface of the block and evaporated. The dissolved or suspended 
material is then deposited, and serves as an additional cementing con- 
stituent to bind the grains more closely together, ft is obvious that 
the iimount of induration must in most cases be quite small, and lim- 
ited to but a thin outer crust on each block ; also that when this crust 
has once Ibrmed it can, if removed, never be replaced since the stone 
in the walls of a building is cut olf from further sui)ply of quarry water, 
and as a matter of course, after whatever quantity contained within its 
own mass has come to the surface and evaporated, no further hardening 
by this means can take place. This induration sometimes takes place 
in a peculiarly rapid and interesting manner. Dr. Wadsworlh, in wiit 
ing on some Potsdam and St. Peter's sandstones near Mazo Manie, 
\Vis.,t states that those portions of the stone which are exposed to at- 
mospheric influences have become by induration converted into, com- 
pact (juartzites, while the protected portions still retain their porous 
and friable nature. So rapidly does this change take place that an 
exposure of but a few months is sufficient to i)roduce very marked re- 
sults on a freshly broken surface. 

It is on this account that the practice of setting rough stone in a 

* Julien, Rop, Teuth Census, Vol. x, p. 770. 

t Proc. Bos. Soc. N;tt. Mist., Vol. xxii, 1883, p. 202. 



340 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Willi, and leavinj;- theui to be carved wlieu the structure is completed, 
is stougly coiideniued by some,* as in so doing tlie hard outer crust 
that began to form as soon as the stone was exposed to evaporation is 
entirely removed, and the delicate carving disintegrates much more 
rapidly than otherwise would have been tlie case. The carving, it is 
argued, should be done at once, while the quarry water is still present, 
and the crust then forms upon its surface, and it is thus better able to 
resist atmospheric action. The rescouring aud honing of buiklings and 
worlvs of art is strongly objected to on similar grounds.! 

(7) Vv^EATIIERING PROPERTIES OF STONES OF VARIOUS KINDS. 

We will now consider the effects of the various agencies just enumer. 
a,ted ui)ou the dift'erent classes of rocks in common use for building 
materials. 

Granites are liable to disintegration chiefly from the constant expan- 
sion aud contraction caused by natural temperatures. The chemical 
changes to which they are subject, such as the kaolinization of the 
feldspars or rusting of the micas, being gs a rule scarcely noticeable 
in the walls of n building, while they are so compact as to be practically 
non-absorbent^ and hence not liable to injury by freezing alone. The 
same may be said respecting the diabases, melaphyrs, and basalts when 
not particularly rich in magnetite or secondary calcite. Dr. Hague, 
in describing the decay of the granite obelisk in Central Park, New 
York, says: "'In my opinion the process of disintegration has been an 
extremely slow one, caused by a constant expansion and contraction 
of the constitutent minerals near the surface, due to diurnal variations 
of temperature. In a climate like that of New York, where these diurnal 
changes are frequently excessive at all times of the year, the tension 
between the minerals would naturally tend to a mechanical disinte- 
gration of the rock. Granite being a poor conductor of heat, the effect 
of these changes would be felt only at short distances below the surface, 
causing in time minute fractures and lissures along lines of weakness. 
Into these openings percolating waters, upon freezing, would rapidly 
complete the work of destruction." | 

The decay of the obelisk since it reached New York, then, has been 
simply mechanical and not chemical. The same has been found true by 
Professor Julien of certain granites used for Iniilding in New York City.§ 

H«dmerson explains the rapid disintegration of the Alexander column 
in St. Petersburg, Russia, on the grounds that it contains many large 
crystals of a triclinic feldspar, which when subjected to the extreme 
temperatures of Eussian climate expand and contract unequally in the 
direction of their three crystallographic axes and hence cause the 

*Lo Dae, Story of ;i House, j). 113. 

tSce Chateau, uudor "lucoiivduieuce dn grattage t\ vif," p. 353. 

t Science, December 11, 1885, p. 511. 

^E. g., the old " Tombs" building on Center street. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 341 

crumbling.* This view seems phxnsible, but we believe it yet remains 
to be sbown that rocks rich in triclinie fel(lsi)ars in reality disintegrate 
more rapidly than others. 

Granite was for a long time popularly believed to be a nearly fire- 
proof material. The great fires of Tortland, Boston, and Chicago not 
merely exjiosed this delusion but proved the direct opposite— tliat in- 
stead of being the most tire-jiroof it was the least so, ranking below 
either sand or limestone. The peculiar susceptibility of the stone to 
the effect of heat may be ascribed to its (compact and complex structure, 
each of its constituent minerals possessing diiferent degrees of expau- 
sibility.t 

It has also been suggested by certain authors that the minute water- 
filled cavities in the quartz of these rocks may be an important factor, 
since, when highly heated, the water is converted into steam and an 
explosion results, causing the quartz to lly into fragments. | 

The relative durability of sandstones and granite under lire is stated 
to have been well shown not long sin(;e at the burning of St. Peter's 
Church at Lamerton, England. The church itself, which Avas built in 
great part of granite, was completeiy mined, while the tower, built 
of a local freestone, around which the heat of the tire was so great as 
to melt six of the bells as they hung in the belfry, was left intact, 
although the granite window-jams and sills were destroyed.§ 

Limestones and doloinites, both marbles and the common varieties, are 
perhaps less affected than granite by the purely mechanical agencies, 
but make up for this in their susceptibility to the solvent action of gas- 
eous atmospheres. Limestones are in this respect less durable than 
dolomites, so that, the tenacity being the same, a dolomite might, under 
the same circumstances, be considered as promising greater durability 

* See Science, January "^, 188(), p. 75. 

t The co-efficient of cubical expansion for several of tlie more common rock-forming 
minerals has been determined as follows : 



Tourmaline 000022 

(iarnet 000025 

Calcite 00002 

Dolomite 0000:!5 



Quartz 0000:U) 

Orthoclase 000017 

Adularia (feldspar) 0000179 

Hornhlcnde 0000281 

Beryl 000001 

The (piartz, it will be noticed, has a co-cllic.icnt of expansion double that of (ho 
orthoclase, ami nearly a third <^rcater than hornblende. The nnitter is further com- 
plicated by the fact that each individual nuneral (>,x])ands unecjually alon<^ the direc- 
tion of its various .axes. Thus quartz gives aco-ef(ici(!nt of .(K)0007fi9 parallel to tln^ 
nijijor axis, and of .00001 ;)85 perpendicular to this axis; adularia gives .000015(), 
.00()000(;51), and .00000291 for its three axes ; and hornblende for the same axes gives 
.0000081, .00000084, and .0000095. (See Clarke's Constants of Nature, Smithsonian 
Misc. Coll., Vol. XIV.) 

t After a microscopic examination of thin seditions of all our granites, such as are 
used for building purposes, the author can but (eel th;it in most cases the results 
thus produced are too small to need sei-ious (sonsidera-tion. 

§ Am. Arch., Vol.iv, 1878, p. 80. 



342 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G 

than a limestone (see p. 350). A thoroughly crystalline or noii-crystai- 
liue compact and homogeneous limestone or dolomite is scarcelyj if any, 
more absorbent than a granite, and hence it is as little liable to injury 
from freezing. Professor Geikic, in studying rock-weathering as dis- 
])layed by the marble tombstones in Scottisl; cemeteries, observed that 
the process i)rcsented three distinct phases, all of which were at times 
observable on the same slab. These were (I) superficial solution, caused 
by the carbonic and sulphuric acids of the atmosi)here ; (2) internal clis- 
intepration, accompanied or preceded by the formation of an -exterior 
coat or fdm of sulphate of lime; and (3) curvature and fracture. The 
first phase manifested itself in loss of i)olish and gradual roughening of 
the surface, followed by the formation of minute rifts and final rapid 
disintegration. One ease is mentioned in which a stone erected in 1785 
became so far decayed as to require restoration in 1803, and at the time 
of writing (ISSO) was and had been for some years so corroded as to be 
entirely illegible. 

The second phase, that of internal disintegration, manifested itself 
in a ])eculiar manner. In a number of cases examined it was found 
that the sulphuric acid brought in contact with the stone. by rains 
had reacted u}>on the calcium carbonate, producing a superficial coating, 
varying in thickness from that of a sheet of paper to a millimeter, of 
sulphate of lime. This, so long as it remained intact, seemed to protect 
the stone from other atmospheric influences. On the breaking of the 
crnst, however, it was found that the cohesion of the crystalline gran- 
ules beneath had been destroyed and the stone crumbled rapidly to 
sand, the cause of which is attributed largely to mechanical agencies. 

The third phase, that of curvature and fracture, was observed only on 
thin slabs of marble which had been placed in a horizontal or vertical 
position and confined by a frame of sandstone. It manifested itself in 
the bulging outward of the slab like the bellying of a well-filled sail. 
In one case examined, that of a slab of marble 30^ inches long, 22|^ 
inches Avide, by three fourths of an inch thick, which had been thus se- 
cured against a wall, tlie slab was found to have escaped from its fasten- 
in^s at the sides, though still held at the top and bottom, and to have 
bulged outward sufficiently to allow the insertion of the hand and arm 
between it and the wall at the widest point. It had also expanded 
laterally so as to be one-half an inch wider in the center than at the 
ends. The outer surface of the slab where the greatest strain was pro- 
duced by the bending was filled with minute cracks or rifts, the largest 
of which were some one-tenth inch in diameter. The cause of the bulg- 
ing is believed by Professor Geikie to be due to expansion caused by the 
freezing of water absorbed from rains.* 

Professor Geikie's conclusions from the examination of a large num- 
ber of cases were to the effect that in all but exceptionally favorable 
and sheltered localities slabs of marble exposed to the weather in such 
*Geol. Sketches, pp. 170-172. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 343 

a climate as that of Edinburgh lost their polish after an exposure of 
but a year or two and became entirely destroyed in less than a century; 
hence that the stone was quite uniltted for outdoor work in that vicin- 
ity. These results are ,qrcatly in exaggeration of what takes place in 
ourown cemeteries. Professor Julieu states that in the city cemeteries 
about Kew York the polish on marble tombstones often survives forten 
years, and in protected places, as near tlie ground in suburban ceme- 
teries, for half a century. lie further states tliat while of the tomb- 
stones in St. Paul's chuicliyard in New York City, about one-tenth of the 
inscriptions dating back to the latter i)art of the eigliteenth century are 
illegible, he has lU'ver seen the sanu' <'ffecC i)roduced in suburban cem- 
eteries in the same length of time. The author's own observations on 
the subject are to the ellxHtt that in the cemeteries of the smaller towns 
and cities of New England marble tombstones will retain their i»olish 
for a jjciiod of ten or fifteen years and i\\) to thiity or thirty-five ])re- 
sent no sign of disintegration of a very serious nature. Beyond this 
time, however, the surface becomes rough and granular and the edges 
of the stone may be found filled with fine rifts into whicli particles of 
dii't become lodged or lichens take root, giving it a dirty and unkempt 
ap]»eaiance.* 

Such stone are frequently taken down, rehoned and polished, and again 
set up to do duty for another term of years. A closely crystalline or 
non-crystalline, comi)act, and homogeneous limestone is probably as 
little alfected by frost as are the granites. Very nniny of the lime- 
stones and dolomites used for ordinary building are, however, by no 
nu'ans sulficiently non-absorbent to protect them from injury by freez- 
ing, nor are they sufliciently uniform in texture to weather evenly, the 
disintegi'ation going on more rapidly in some layers than others, thus 
producing rough and unsightly walls. Professor Winchell, writing on 
tlu^ weathering of the Trenton limestone used at Saint Paul and Min- 
neapolis, says :t "The stone itself has an attractive and substantial 
aspect when dressed under the hauuner, the variegations due to the 
alternating shaly and limy parts giving the face a clouded appearance, 
as of gray marble, without being susceptible of a uniform polish. 
Where ])rotected from the weather the shale will endure and act as a 
strong fdling for the frame-woik of calcareous nuitter for a long time ; 
but under the vicissitudes of moisture and dryness, and of freezing and 
thawing, it begins to crumbh; out in a few years. This result is visible 
in some of the older buildings, both in Saint Paul and Minneapolis." 
Professor Hall, writing on rock weathering,^ says: "In the gray or 
bluish gray subcrystalline limestones the argillaceous matter, instead 
of being distributed throughout the mass, is usually present in the 



* The fine j^rained saccli.iroidal marbles used for statuary are even less durable, and 
in extrcnio cases have shown serious disintei^ration at tlie end of three or four years 
exposure. 

t Preliminary Report on Huildiuj5-stoue3, etc., I8H0, p. 1:5. 

t Report ou Buildiug-atoucs, p. IJG. 



344 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

form of seams which are parallel to the lines of bedding or distributed 
in short, interrupted lamina;. These seams, whether continuous or 
otherwise, are fatal to the integrity of the stone, aud there is scarcely 
a limestone structure in the country, of twenty-five years standing, 
which is not more or less dilapidated or unsightly, from the effects of 
absorption of water by the clay seams, aud the alternate freezing and 
thawing. When laid in the position of the original beds, which is the 
usual mode, the separation by the clay seam is slower; bat when used 
as posts or pillars, with the lines of bedding vertical, the change goes 
on more rapidly." 

Sandstones, on accouut of their widely varying textures and degrees 
of compactness, together with an equal variation in composition aud 
character of cemeuvtiug materials, are influeuced, to a greater or less 
extent, by all the atmospheric intluences enumerated, hi the order of 
its apparent importance may be mentiond first tlie eifects of freezing. 
As will be noticed by reference to the tables in the appendix, sand- 
stones will absorb from about oue-fiftieth to one-eighth of their weight 
in water in twenty-four hours, or from 13 per cent, to VJ^S per cent. The 
approximate amount which a stone may absorb with imi)unity cannot, 
of course, be stated, since much depends on its i)Osition in a building 
and the strength and structure of tlie stone itself. It is not too much 
to say, however, that any stone which will absorb 10 per cent, of its 
weight of water during twenty-four liours should be looked upon with 
suspicion until, by actual experiment, it had shown itself capable of 
withstanding without harm freezing when in this condition. Half of 
this amount may be considered as too large when tlie stone contains 
any appreciable amount of calcareous or clayey matter. (See foot-note, 
p. 348.) 

It is to their great absorptive power that is due the large amount of 
disintegration and exfoliation seen in the softer sandstones, as the Tri- 
assic of the Eastern United States and the sub-Carboniferous of Ohio. 
When a stratified rock, and especially one that is distinctly laminated, is 
I)laced on edge the water filters into it from above, and, there freezing, 
from necessity produces the scaling so often noted in the Connecticut 
brownstone. If placed on the bed the effect is not nearly as disastrous, 
but with a porous stone the effect of continual freezing and thawing can 
but be injurious. It was with an apparent eutire disregard of the prob- 
ble effect of these agencies that was selected the soft and i)orons Jnro- 
Cretaceous sandstone from Acquia Creek, Virginia, for the constiiiction 
of the White House, central part of the Capitol, and other ])nl)lie and 
private buildings in Washington, a stone so susceptible to these inilii- 
ences, that it is only by a most prodigal use of paint and putty that the 
buildings are kept in a condition at all presentable.* 

* other reasons than that of lack of durability can be given against the nse of 
a too porons stone in a house wall. "A red saiidatone house may bo a very handsome 
building, hut then it may l)o lioldingtons of water, .ind such a wall, if exposed to the 
northwest, in au open country, in our neighborhood, in a rainy winter, would, no 



BUILDING AND ORJ^AMENTAL STONES. 345 

Acid gases arc naturally without effect n])ou the silicious particles 
of a saiulstoue, and can be i)rodiictive of injury only in dissolving out 
the ferruginous and calcareous cements. This is actually accompliohed 
in many cases, and much disintegration results as a consequence. In- 
deed, Egleston* seems to regard the serious decay into which the stono 
of Trinity Church, Kew York, has fallen, to be due chiefly to this cause, 
supplemented by the action of frost after the cement had been removed 
and the stone thus rendered porous. The relative solubility of the vari- 
ous ferruginous cements has been already alluded to (ante p. o.'JD), Oxi- 
dation is likely to piny a more noticeable part in sandstones than in most 
other rocks, owing to their porous nature, which allows ready acci ss of 
water and air. The effect of oxidizing pyrite in producing the mellow- 
ing and other color changes in stones of this class is sufficiently dwelt 
upon elsewhere, as is also the effect of heat, both natunil and artilicial. 

On account of their ])orosity and natural roughness of surface sand- 
stones are of all stones most likely to afford foothold for the growth of 
a1ga^, lichens, and mosses. While it is yet to be proven that these are 
actually injurious, they are at least suggestive of an unhealthy damp, 
ness. A stone once covered by these organisms will absorb more water 
and give it up more slowly to evaporation than one whose surfaces are 
not thus protected. 

Serpentines when free from bad veins are as a rule uon-absoiptive 
and not affected by gaseous atmospheres, hence are durable if free IVom 
bad joints. The Pennsylvania serpentines sometimes turn whitish on 
exposure, but so far as observed do not disintegrate. 

Soapstone, although too soft and ]>ossibly too Nlii»i)ery for gene ral 
building, is nevertheless one of the most durable stones, ])eing notolily 
proof against atmospheric and chemical agencies, but when well sea- 
soned tire-proof as well. 

(lyi)sum IS too soft and too soluble in ordinary teirestrial waters to 
be of great value. 

I._OK THE SELECTION OF BUILDINC STONE. 

(1) GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 

From what has gone bei'ore it must be evident that there are many 
more factors which go to determine the value of stone for striu'.tural 
purposes than are ordimirily taken into consideration. It may there- 
fore not be out of ])lace here to mention a few general ])rin<;ij)les to be. 
observed in selecting stone for any purpose in which durability or 
stability of color are matters of importance. It should be stated at the 

doubt, gtjt siitu lilted. Tliis means expeiidiiif;' more fuel to convert part of this wafer 
into vapor. The difficulty is surmounted to a j;roat extent by l)ui]din<;- hollow walls, 
the inn(>r wall beinj.; of brick. Wo<? unto the man who has not taken tins precaution." 
(T. Mellard Reade, in Proc. Liverpool Geolo^rical Soc, p. 4 1.5 and 44(5, 188;5-H4.) 

*Caus(!andl'reventioii of Decay in JJuildin;^ Ston(i. Trans. Am. Soc. Civ. lOnjjs xv, 
1886. 



346 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

outset that tlie problem of ascertaining by laboratory or other tests 
the actual q^nalities, good or bad, of any stone, is i>eculiarly complicated 
and difficult.* In the present state of our knowledge nothing like 
definite rules of procedure with any i^robability of accurate and reliable 
results can be given. That the difficulties may be better appreciated 
it may be well to note here the main points to be considered. In the 
order of their apparent importance they are : 

(1) Eesistance to changes in temiierature. 

(2) Resistance to chemical action of tlie atmosphere. 

(3) Crushing strength and elasticity. 

(4) Resistance to abrasive action of feet and wind-blown sand. 

The order as above given maybe subject to modification to suit indi- 
vidual cases. In manj^ instances the actual strength of a stone is a 
matter of little importance, and in protected situations the quality men- 
tioned under (4) may be wholly left out of consideration. In still other 
cases, as in bridge abutments, strength and elasticity are matters of 
greatest import, wiiile that of change of color can have no essential 
value. In the arrangement given above, especial regard has been liad 
to stone exposed in the exterior walls of a building, and in a varied 
climate like that of the northern and eastern United States. 

The first item for consideration is then the matter of climate. Tliis.. 
together with the location iu w^hich a structure is to be erected, with 
especial reference to proximity to large cities and manufacturing estab- 
lishments, and even the directions of the prevailing winds and storius, 
are of primary importance and need consideration as well as do the 
physical and chemical iirox)erties of the stone itself.t 

Our Northern and Eastern States, with an annual preci[)itation of some 
thirtj^-uine or forty inches and a variation in temperature amounting in 
some cases to not less than 120°, are necessarily more trying than those 
where the precipitation is less or the temperature more uniform. There 
is many a porous sand or lime stone which could endure an exposure of 

* See article " On the testing of building-stone," by tho writer in American Archi- 
tect for February 16, 1889. 

t "As an instance of the diiference in degree of durability in the same material sub- 
ject to the effects of atmosphere in town and country wo may notice the several 
frastra of columns and other blocks of stone that were quarried at the time of the 
erection of St. Paul's Cathedral in London, and which are now iying in the island of 
Portland, near the quarries from where they were obtained. These blocks are in- 
variably found to be covered with lichens, and although they have been exposed to 
the vicissitudes of a marine atmosphere for more than one hundred and fifty years 
they still exhibit beneath the lichens their original forms, even to the marks of the 
chisel employed upon them, whilst the stone which was taken from the same quarries 
and placed iu the cathedral itself is in those parts which are exposed to the south 
and southeast winds found in some instances to bo fast moldering away." (Gwylt's 
Encyclop. of Arch., p. 458.) 

It is stated that in England the northern part of a building is always in a better 
state of preservation than the southern, owing to the more uniform amount of moist- 
ui'e aud less heat from the sun. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 347 

hundretls of years iu a climate like that of Florida or New Mexico, but 
which would probably be found in a sad state of disintegration at the 
end of a single scasou in some more northern State. 

We are accustomed to hear a great deal r(>garding the wisdom of the 
ancients, and especially the Egyptians, as showu in tlie selection of 
enduring materials for their obelisks and juonuments,* a wisdom or 
prudence which modern builders "admire more than they imitate," and 
we are referred to the still legible inscriptions and sharp sculptures on 
the surfaces of these ol)e]isks, even after thousands of years of ex- 
posure, as proof of this marvelous foresight on the part of a semi- 
barbarous people. It must be borne iu mind, however, that uature 
herself had vastly- more to do in this matter than Egyptian foresight, 
and it is more than i)r()l)al)le that at that time materials were selected 
with as little regard fur their lasting qualities as they are to-day. The 
Syeue granite, so durable under Egyptian skies, is no better than 
those in common use in this country, as the traus])orted obelisks iu 
New York aud London have plainly shown. It is a matter of cliuuxto 
more than of material, and this fact should never for a moment be ig- 
nored. Were the climate of the United States like that of Egypt, 
southerii Ital^', or Mexico there would have arisen no occasion for the 
compilation of this cliapter.f 

(2) PKECAITTIONS TO BE OBSERVED. 

. The precautions wliicli should be observed in selecting a. stone for 
building purposes may here be brietly alluded to. 

In those portions of the northern and eastern United States tliat 
have been subjected to glacial action,| and where the great mass 

' Vide Matcriaiis do Construction, par L. Malccot, X). oU. 

+ "From tlio manner iu which the Luihlings and monuments of Italy, formed of cal- 
careous materials, have retained to a wonderful degree the sharpness of their orginal 
sculpturing, unless disfigured by the hand of man, it is clear that a dry and smokeless 
atmosphere is the essential element of durability. In this rcsiiect, therefore, the 
humid sky and gaseous atmosphere of British towns must always place tlie buildings 
of this country at a comparative disadvantage as regards durability." (llnll, p. 282.) 

"La Greco, la Basso Italie, et uotammeni} la Sicile, di|; il, out cet (Strange privildgo 
que tout s'y conserve intact, i)resque sans so ddtdriorer, pendant des siecles consdcu- 
lifs, Aussi les monuments, les statues, les marbres blancs eux-memes, q'li, chez nous 
(en France), dcvienuent noirs en deuxans, rouges en dix ans, ruin6s en cinquante, chez 
eux sont a peine noircis au bout do trois ou quatre siecles d'exposition en plein air. 
Sous terre ou dans un appartement ils gardeut intactes leur forme et jusqu'i\ lenr 
l)hincheur, a,perp6tuit6 pour aiusi dire. 

.J'ai vu retirer do terre a Pouzzole, pros de Naple, des marbres enfouis dtipwis jilus do 
denx nnllo ans, qui avaient Fair do sortir des mains du sculpteiir. 

A Palerme, les statues et les marbres en ))hMn ;iir sont, il est vrai,assez noirs; raais 
ils n'ont jamais 6t6 touch(is, m'a-t-on dit,d(>pnis leur miso en place, et il y a 1;\ des 
statues qui datcut de dix siecles." (E. Carjey, .as (luoted in Malecot's Mat6riaiix de 
Construction, p.3L) 

{This includes all of New Englainl and tlio.sci ijortions of other States lying north 
of a line running irregularly from a point near the western end of Long Island 



348 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188(5. 

of rotten rock that bad accumulated during^ previous geologic ages 
has beeu eutirely removed, if the surface of the rock as displayed 
in the quarry or natural outcrops presents a fresh and undecom- 
posed appearance, this may be construed as a strong argument in its 
favor, though it can not in all cases be accepted as conclusive.* A 
purely calcareous rock may weather rapidly and yet leave no debri.s, 
since its constituents are soluble and may all be carried away by 
running water, leaving no traces to tell of the havoc going steadily on. 
Impure limestones and all silicious rocks, however, leave more or less 
debris as mark of their decay. 

But in regions south, of the glaciated area the rock is still covered by 
the decomposed mass, and hence no clew can thus be obtained. In 
such cases one can only have recourse to structures tiiat have alreiidy 
been erected from the stone in question and there observe its weather- 
ing qualities, or, if these are lacking, observe tlie stone in tho.se pans 
of the quarry that have not recently been worked. In o[)ening a new 
(|uarTy, blocks should always be tested by allowing them to lie and sea- 
son for at least a year before using. At the end of this time the pres- 
ence of any readily oxidizable pj'rite will have made its presence known, 
and the amount of disintegration, or induration, as the case may be, 
wdl furnislx a slight clew regarding its future behavior. Indeed, this 
seasoning of stone prior to its introduction into a building should always 
be insisted upon, whatever its character. A good biiilding stone, 
whatever its kind, should possess a moderately tine and even texture, 
with the grains w^ell comi>acted, should give out a clear ringing sound 
when struck with a hammer t and show always a clean fresh fracture. 
It should also be capable of absorbing only a proportionally small 
amount of water. | 

iicross New Jersey; thence northwesterly across Pennsylvania into New York State 
soutli of Buft'alo; thence southwesterly to near central Ohio; thence dne south 
nearly to the Ohio River; westerly along the river to a point north of Louisville, 
Ky. ; thence northerly again nearly to Indianapolis, lud. ; thence southwesterly so as 
to include nearly all of Illinois; thence northwesterly to a point near Saint Louis; 
■westerly toward Jefferson City, Mo.; thence along the Osage River and northwesi- 
erly through Kansas near Topcka; through the eastern half of Nehraska, tlirougli 
Dakota west of Bismark, and thence onward into Montana. 

* "No artificial structure or position will ever subject the stone to the same degree 
of weathering influence to which it is exposed in its natural position. * * * 'i'lie. 
rock which has withstood these inlluences is quite equal to witlistand tlie exposure ol' 
a few centuries in an artificial structure. " (Hall Rep. on Building Stone, ]». -21.) 

t In a report on some experiments on the transverse strength and elasticity of liuild- 
ing stone, Mr. T. II. Johnson states " the resonance of each piece tested was propor- 
tional to the modulus of elasticity as found by the test." (Kep. State Geol. of Iiid., 
1881, p. 38.) 

t En uu mot, les qualites essentiolles des pierres tantdures quo tendres sont d'avoir 
le grain fin et homogfeno, la texture uuiforme et compacte ; de ril^ister a I'humidite 
a la geloe, et de ne j)as clater aii feu en cas d'incendie. (Chateau, Vol. i, p. 272.) 

Any sandstone weighing less tlian 130 pounds per cubic foot, absorbing more than 
Jjper cent, of its weight of water in twenty- four hours, and effervescing anything but 
feebly with acids, is liable to prove a second-class stosio as regards durability where 
there is frost or much acid in the air." (Notes on Building Construction, p. 36.) 



BUILUIN(; AND OiiNAMENTAL STONES. 349 

The porosity of any ytouc is usually cliaiacteristically shown by its 
manner ot dry in <^- atter a rain ; some will dry quickly, while otiiers that 
have absorbed a larger quantity ot water will remain moist lor a long 
time. In the case of a sandstone it may be said that the grains should 
be closely compacted, so that the proportion of cement necessary to en- 
tirely lill the interspaces is comparatively small. Of all cementing ma- 
terials the argillaceous and calcareous are the least durable, and the 
purely siliceous the most so, the ferruginous cements standing interme- 
diate in the series. Indeed a purely siliceous sandstone cemented 
closely by a siliceous cement may be classed as one of the most durable 
of stones, although unfortunately on account of their hardness and poor 
colors such can be utilized only at a considerable expense and not al- 
ways with good effect. Professor Geikie * mentions an instance in which 
a fine siliceous sandstone erected as a tombstone in Greyfriars church- 
yard about IGIG, and defaced by order of the Government in 1G(»2, still 
showed the marks of the defacing chisel upon its polished surface af!' r 
a lapse of over two hundred years. 

(:?) COMPARATIVl-: DIJKAIULITY OF STONES OF VARIOUS KINDS. 

In this connection the following table upon the "life" of various 
kinds of building stone in :s'ew York City is of interest; by the term 
life being understood the number of years that the stoiu'S have been 
found to last without discoloration or disintegration to the extent of 
necessitating repairs. 

Life in years. 

Coarse Ijrowu-stoiie ^ to 15 

Fiuo l;uuin;ited browii-stouc 5iO JJO 

Coiiipiict brown-stone - 100 200 

Bluo-.stone (sandstone), untried, prol)a!)ly centuries. 

Nova Scotia sandstoce, iintricd, perliaps •'^■0 ~00 

Obiosandstone (best siliceous variety), perhaps Iroin one to many centuries. 

Coarse fossiliferous limestone ~0 40 

Fine oolitic (Frencb) limestone ^0 40 

Marble, coarse doloinitic 'JO 

Marble, line dolomitic tJU 80 

M arble, (1 ne , T.O 100 

Crauite 75 200 

Gneiss, 50 years to many centnries.t 

The fact that certain (piarries have furnished good material in the 
past is no guarantee of the future output of the entire quarry. This 
is especially true regarding rocks of sedimentary origin, as the sand 
and limestones, different beds of which will often vary wi<lely in 
color, texture, composition, and durability, though lying closely adja- 
cent. In many quarries of calcareous rocks in Ohio, Iowa, and neigh- 
boring States, the product is found to vary at ditferent dei)ths all tbe 
way from a pure limestone to magnesian limestone and dolomite. The 

* Geolo,u;ical Sketches, p. 175. 

t Julieu, Rep. Tenth Ceusns, IbSO, p. 391. 



350 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

cause of tliis roinarkable variation is little luulerstood and can not here 
be touehed upon,* but the fact that such occurs is of importance, since 
in many and perhaps the majority of cases an equal variation exists 
in point of durability. By English as well as many other authorities 
a dolomite is, other things being equal, considered more durable than 
a limestone, and beyond doubt this is the case in localities where the 
atmosphere is at all acidic, since dolomite, as already noted, is but lit- 
tle affected by these agencies. Aside from this it would seem yet to be 
proven that, in the United States, a pure lin)estone was less durable 
than one that contained the necessary magnesia to constitute a true dolo- 
mite. ^ Indeed, Professor Hall considers the magnesian limestones, as a 
whole, " more friable, more porous, and less lirm " (and consequently 
less durable) than the i>ure limestone.| 

Stones which are mixtures of limestone and dolomite are liable to 
weather unevenly, the limestone crystals becoming eaten out, while the 
dolomite particles are left to project and impart a rough and lusterless 
surface. 

Coarsely fossiliferous stones are usually to be avoided for exposed work, 
as they weather unevenly, owing to the unequal hardness of the fossils 
and the matrix in which they are embedded. Thus the coarse gray Niag- 
ara limestone from Lockport, N. Y., used in the construction of the Lenox 
Library building in 'New York City, began to show signs of decay even 
before the structure was coinpleted. It should be remarked, however, 
that this extreme rate ^Tas due in ])art to the fact that the s(»one was 
laid on edge and not on the natural bed. Mr. Ayolff§ mentions a case 
of a monument ot shell marble in a Boston cemetery, in which, after sev- 
enty years' exposure, the fossil shells stand out in bold relief; the stone 
is also covered with fine cracks and is otherwise decomposed. || 

Veined stones are also subject to unequal w^eatheriug when exposed ; 
this being due to the unequal hardness of the vein matter and the mass 
of the rock. This is true of all stones, but is especially noticeable in 

* lutorested parties should cousult such works a,s Geikie's text book of Geology aud 
Prt'i^twich's Chemical and Physical Geology and the authorities there alluded to. 

t "The nearer a maguesiau liiuestouo approaches a dolomite in comiiositiou the 
more durable it is likely to be." " In the Tormation of dolomite some peculiar com- 
bination takes place between the molecules of each substance; they possess some 
inherent jiower by which the invisible or minutest particles intermix and unite with 
one •another so intimately as to be inseparable by mechanical means. On examining 
with a high magnifying power a specimen of genuine magnesian limestone * * * 
it will be found not composed, of two sorts of crystals, some -formed of carbonate oi 
lime aud others of carbonate of magnesia, but the entire mass of stone is made up 
of rhomboids, each of which contains both earths homogeneously crystallized to- 
gether. When this is the case we know by practical observation .that the stone is 
extremely durable." (Smith's Lithology, Building Const., p. 40.) 

I Rep. Tenth Census, p. 290. 

S^ Rep. on Building-Stone, p. 40. 

II The limestone of wliioji was constructed the State capitol building at Nashville, 
Tenn., has i^roved so inferior, owing to the weathering out of the numerous fossil 
orthocera, that the quarries have been discontinued on this account alone. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 351 

tbe SO called verdantique marbles, wliere tlie white veins of ealcite or 
dolomite lose tlieir polish and crumble away more rapidly than the 
serpentine composing the balk of the rock. Good exami)le8 of tliis are 
to be seeu in the bases of the two statues in front ot the City ilai! in 
Boston. Stones which, like many marbles, contain seams of mica, talc, 
or other minerals, are objectionable for like reasons. Thus th.' nuirble 
column supporting the statue of Lincoln in front of the City Ilall at 
Washington, though having been in place but some twenty years, is to- 
day cracked from top to bottom, owing to the opening of one of iliese 
seams of talc. It may be stated further that in the majority^ of marbles 
and such other stones as are used chiefly for decoration work, those 
variously colored lines and veins or structural features which give 
the stone its chief beaiity are in reality flaws and lines ot weakness. 
There is many a beautiful imported marble which when sawn into a 
thin slab will scarcely bear its own weight, but must be backed by 
cheaper and stronger material. 

It may be said here that the essential qualities of a marble, aside from 
color, which may vary almost indefinitely, are that it shall possess a text- 
ure sufliciently com})act and hard to take a smooth surface and acquire a 
high ])olish. The chief defect in nearly all American marbles, and one 
that does not as yet seem to be fully realized, is that they are too coarsely 
crystalline. This not only ren.ders the production of a perfect surface 
diflicult, but the cleavage facets frequently reflect the light fioni below 
the surface in such a way as to destroy its nniformitj^ Ilowever good 
the color may be, a stone of this nature must always rank lower than 
one that is so fine grained as to appear non-crystalline or amorphous. 
It is this fact, and this alone, that renders the American marbles now 
in the market inferior to such as are imported from Belgium, the French 
Pyrenees, Italy, or northern Africa. Those who are seeking new source:; 
of material will do well to bear this in mind.* 

Time of quarrying. — The seasoji of year during which a stone was 
quarried may also, in certain cases, be M'orthy of note. It is well known 
that many stones can be quarried with safety only during the summer 
season, but Griiber goes a step further and states t that while the best 
time for quarrying is during the summer, the freshly quarried material 
should not be allowed to lie in the sun and dry too (pdckly, as it is lia- 
ble thereby to become shaky. This he regards as particularly likely to 
liai)pen to sandstone. Stone quarried in winter, or during verj' wet 
seasons, is liable, according to this authority, to have but slight tenacity 
when dried, and to remain always particularly susceptible to the eilects 
of moisture. Finally, he states, a stone is liable to disintegration if 
built immediately into a wall without seasoning. Stones for carved 
work are to be quarried in the spring, since such longest retain their 
quarry water, and this, if once lost, no subsequent wetting can restore. 

"Stone, IiuIianupoli.H, Ind., February, 188'J. 
Die Buuimiteriiilien-Lchre, p. GL 



352 liEl'ORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

K. METHODS OF PROTECTION AND PRESERVATION, 
(1) PKECAUTIONAKY METHODS. 

Position i)t wall. — All authorities agree tbat stratitied stone should 
be placed in the walls with the bedding horizontal, or at right angles 
to the direction of greatest i)ressure. Not only are they as a rule 
strongest in this position, but as they will absorb less water they are 
correspondingly less liable to sutler from the effects of frost. This 
fact has already been sufficiently dwelt upon. The denser and liarder 
stoneis should as a rule be used in the lower courses; the lighter ones 
in the superstructure. The non-absorbent stones should bo used in the 
ground and iu plinths, sills, strings, courses, and weather beds of cor- 
m'ces, etc.; the softer and more absorbent ones may be used for plain 
walling.* 

The necessity of laying non-absorbent stones in the ground becomes 
ai){)arent when we consider that in this position they are in contact with 
more or less moisture, which, when absorbed, is liable to cause discolora- 
tion and damp, unhealthy walls. If from necessity porous stone are 
used, a coating of water-i)roof material, as asphalt, should be interiiosed 
between those courses that are in contact with the ground and those of 
the superstructure.t 

In laying the lower courses of Lee dolomite in the walls of the Capi- 
tol at Washington, the stone was observed to show a brownish discol- 
oration, due to the absorption of unclean water from the mortar. This 
was iinally remedied by coating the lower surfaces of the stones where 
they came in contact with the mortar with a thin layer of asphalt which 
prevented such absorption and thus removed the difficulty. | 

No one who has given the subject any attention can have failed to 
remark how, in town and city houses constructed of the Connecticut or 
New Jersey brown sandstones, the blocks in the lower courses — those in 
close proximity to the sidewalks — almost invariably scale after an ex- 
posure of but a few years, while those in the courses above remain in- 
tact for a much longer period. This is due to the fact that these lower 
courses are kept almost constantly wet, receiving not only the water 
that falls as rain upon the walls above, but also that which splashes 
from the walk or is absorbed from the ground. As noted by Chateau 
(oj>. cit., p. 352), it is not those portions of a wall that receive the water 
from rains direct that are most and earliest liable to decomposition, but 
the under and partially protected portions, as those under the cornices, 

* Cyclopedia of Arts aud Sciences, Vol. vii, p. 839. 

t T. Eggleston, Am. Arch., Sept. ."3, IbHf). Tliis authority states farther, that iu the 
exterior walls of Trinity Chnrch, New York, i he stone for the first 60 or 70 feet in 
height is more decomposed than above this point. This is accounted for in part on 
the supposition that the atmosphere near the ground contains a larger proportion of 
acid gases than at higher altitudes. 

t Sill. Jour., XXII, 1856, ]>. :)6. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 353 

the euUiblatiires and the " tablettes " of balustrades iipuu which the 
water drips or runs more slowly. It is for this reason that architeets 
advocate the under-throating of window sills and other projections in or- 
der that the water may be thrown ofl' from the building and not allowed 
to run down over the face of the stone beneath. The disastrous effects 
from neglect of this proceeding have been dwelt upon by Julien in 
reference to buildings in New York City. The author has in mind 
the costly residence of a former Cabinet minister in Washington in 
which the middle portion of the brownstone entablatures are almost 
continually wet throughout the winter months by the soaking througli 
of water from above. The stone steps in the same house are constantly 
wet and show a whitish efflorescence. Both these defects are liable to 
appear in so porous a material, but might in large part have been 
averted by exercising proper care in building. 

It may not be out of place here to comment on the folly of placing 
iron railing on steps, platforms, etc., of finely finished granite, since in 
spite of i)aint and other means of protection the iron invariably rusts, 
staining and badly defacing the entire surface beyond possibility of 
repair. 

The method of dressing a stone has an important bearing upon its dura- 
bility. As a rule it may be set down that the less jar from heavy 
])oundiug the surface is subjected to the better; this for the reason that 
the constant impact of the blows tend to destroy the adhesive or cohesive 
power of the grains, and thus renders the stone more susceptible to 
atmospheric influences. It is stated by Mr. Batchen that some of the 
dolomites used in Chicago, although apparently perfectly sound when 
quarried, shortly showed a tendency to scale on exposure. On examina- 
tion it appears that in dressing these surfaces were both ax- and bush- 
hammered, the implements used weighing from 8 to 12 pounds, and capa- 
ble of striking blows of not less than 150 or 200 pounds. The effect of 
these heavy blows was to "stun"* the surfaces for the depth of from 
one-sixteenth to one-eighth, or even one-fourth, of an inch, and on ex. 
posure scaling- resulted, leaving them ragged and unsightly. Sawn 
surfaces of the same stone, on the contrary, do not usually show the 
slightest tendency to scale. 

Kesults such as these, are what one is naturally led to expect, but 
further experiments are necessary before it will answer to speak too 
positively regarding the merits or demerits of various kinds of finish. 
With compact crystalline rocks like the granites and diabases it would 
seem probable that rock-faced work, untouched by chisel or hammer, 
would prove most durable, since the crystalline facets thus exposed are 
best fitted to shed moisture and the natural adhesion of the grains has 
not been disturbed t. 

*/. «., to break the gruiiia and produce minute fissures. 

t The single oxpcrimont of Pfaff, iu which a polished grauito was found to weather 
more rapidly than one unpolished, sooms too anomalous to ho accepted until further 

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 23 



354 REPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

With the softer and more iibsorbent stoues, on tlie other hand, the 
rock surface from its irregularity and rougimess is more susceptible to 
the attacks of moisture and atmospheric acids, and hence would proba- 
bly be found less durable, although from its roughness at the start any 
disintegration is less noticeable than on finely finished work. With 
such stones a smoothly sawu or polished surface seems best adapted to 
our variable climate.* 

(2) PROTECTION BY MEANS OF SOLUTIONS. 

Many methods have been devised for checking or altogether prevent- 
ing the unfavorable action of the weather upon building stone of va- 
rious kinds, but none of them can be considered as really satisfactory. 
The problem, as may readily be understood, consists in finding some 
fluidal substance into which the stone may be dii)ped or which may be 
applied with a brush to its outer surface in such a manner as to till its 
pores and thus prevent all access of moisture. Whatever the sub- 
stance, it must be of such a nature as in no way to discolor or disfigure 
the stone. 

Paint. — This is one of the substances most generally used and which 
has been em])loyed on the porous sandstone of the Capitol, White 
ilouse, Patent Oflice, and other public buildings in W^ashington. It is 

proof is offered. A polished surface must naturally shed water more readily than a 
sawn or tonl-dressed cue, and hence it would seem that it should ho more durahlo. 
It is of course possible that, owing to the uianuor in which the smooth surface neces- 
sary for polishing was ])roduced, the surface minerals were badly shattered, and hence 
succumbed the more readily on exposure. 

* Professor Ilall, writing on the methods of dressing certain argillaceous limestones 
(Kcp. on Building Stones, p. 3(3-37), says : "In the dressingof limestone the tool crushes 
thestone to a certain depth, and leaves the surface with an interrupted layer of a lighter 
color, in which the cohesion of the particles has been partially or entirely destroyed; 
and in this condition the argillaceous seams are so covered and obscured as to be 
scarcely or at all visible, but the weathering of one or two years usually shows their 
presence. 

" The usual process of dressing limestone rather exaggerates the cause of dilapida- 
tion from the shaly seams in the material. The clay being softer than the adjacent 
Ktoue and the blow of the hammer or other tool breaks the limestone at the margin 
of the seam and drives forward in the space little wedge-shaped bits of the harder 
gtone. A careful examination of dressed surfaces will often show the limestone along 
the seam to be fractured with uumeroua thin wedge-shaped slivers of the stone which 
have been broken olf and are more or less driven forward into the softer parts. In 
looking at similar surfaces which have been a long time exposed to the weather, it 
will be seen that the stone adjacent to the seam presents an interrupted fractured 
margin, the small fragments having dropped out in the process of weathering. Lime- 
stones of this character are much better adapted to rough dressing, when the blows 
are directed away from the surface instead of against it, and when the entire surface 
shall be left of the natural fresh fracture. By this process the clay seams have not 
been crushed, nor the limestone margining them broken, and the stone withstands 
the weather much longer than otherwise. The attempt at «line hammer-dressing is 
injurious to any stone, for the cohesion of the ixwticles is necessarily destroyed, and 
a portion of the surface left in a condition to bo much more readily acted upon by the 
weather." 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 355 

louiid necessary to renew the coating every two or tlireo years, and 
even then the results are unsatisfactory. 

Oil. — This, as stated by Julien,* always discolors a light colored 
stone, while it renders a dark colored one still darker. According to 
this authority the oil is applied as follows : The surface of the stone is 
washed clean, and after dr;^ing is i)ainted with one or more coats of 
boiled linseed oil, and tlually with a weak solution of ammonia in warm 
water. This renders the tint more uniform. This method has l)eeu 
tried on several houses in New York City, and the water-i»roof coating 
thus produced found to last some four or live years, when it must be 
renewed. 

raraffine.— This, dissolved in coal-tar naphtha, is spoken of,t but is not 
recommended. A better method, as suggested by Julien,| consists in 
l)rushing over the surface of the building with melted parafline and then 
heating it gently until it has been nearly all absorbed into the pores of 
the stone. This produces little or no discoloration, but it is thought 
doubtful by some if the heating of the stone is not more iiijurious than 
the paraflQne is beueticial. 

The preparation used in coating the Egyptian obelisk in Central 
Park, New York, is said by Mr. Caflal§ to have consisted of parafldne 
containing creosote dissolved in turpentine, the creosote being consid- 
ered efticacious in preventing organic growtli upon the stone. The 
melting point of the compound is about llOo Fahrenheit. In applying, 
the surface to be coated is first heated by means of especially designed 
lamps and charcoal stoves, and the melted compound applied with a 
brush. On cooling it is absorbed to a depth dependent ui)on the degree 
of penetration of the heat. In the case of the obelisk, Mr. Caftal states 
that, in his belief, it was absorbed to the depth of half an inch. Some 
OT-j' pounds of the material was used in going over the -J20 sipiare yards 
of surface. An ecjual surface of brown sandstone is stated to require 
ordinarily about 40 or 50 pounds. The cost of treating an ordinary 25- 
foot brownstone front, with a porch, is given by this authority at from 
$200 to $300. This process, like the last, has been objected to by some 
on the ground that the heating was liable to injure the stone. Just how 
much injury is likely to result from a temperature lower than that of 
boiling water, it is perhaps yet too early to say. It seems scarcely pos- 
sible that a good (piality of sandstone laid on its bed could be at all af- 
fected; neither, it is safe to say, would brick. 

iSoft soap and alum solution. — This, as given by Julien, consists of 
three-fourths of a pound of soft soap to 1 gallon of boiling water and 
one-half a pound of aluin in 4 gallons of water. It is said to answer 
well in exposed situations in England, but to require frequent renewal. 



* Teuth Ceusus, p. 389. 

t Notes oil buildiug construction. 

t Op. cit. 389-90. 

$ Trans. N. Y. Acad. Sci., Nov., 1885, p. GO. 



356 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Various solutions of beeswax, rosin, and coal tar have also been tried 
with indifferent success. 

liansome's iiroccss. — This consists in saturating the stone as far as 
practicable with a solution of silicate of soda or potash (waterglass) and 
afterwards applying a solution of chloride of calcium. This last coming 
in contact Avith the silicate produces by double decomposition an in- 
soluble silicate of lime, cementing the grains of which the stone is 
composed firmly together.* 

" The solution of silicate is first applied in a dilute form so as to be 
absorbed readily into the pores of the stone. Several coats are applied 
with an ordinary whitewash brush and when thoroughly dry the surface 
is washed with rain water, again allowed to dry, and the calcium solu 
tion applied in the same manner. The precautions to be used are : (I) 
the stone must be clean and dry before applying the solution ; (2) the 
silicate must be applied until the stone is fully saturated, but no excess 
must be allowed to remain on the surface : (3) the calcium must not be 
applied until after the silicate is dry ; a clear day or so should intervene 
if possible ; (4) care must be taken that either solution is not splashed 
upon the windows or upon painted work, as it can not be removed there- 
from ; (5) upon no account should the same brush be used for both 
solutions. Under ordinary circumstances about 4 gallons of each solu- 
tion will be required for every 100 yards of surface." 

tSzerelmey's stone liquid is stated to be a combination of Kuhlman's 
process with a temporary wash of some bituminous substance. The wall 
being nmdc perfectly dry and clean, the licpiid is applied in two or three 
coats with a painter's brush, until a slight glaze appears on the surface. 
This composition was used with some success in arresting for a time 
the decay of the stone in the House of Parliament. t 

Kuldmaii's irrovess consists in simply coating the surface of the stone 
with a silicate of soda or potash solution. It is open to the objection 
that the ])otash absorbs caibonic acid from the air and produces a dis- 
agreeable elUorescence, which, however, disappears in time. 

M. Lcwins' process consists in coating the surface of the stone with 
solutions of an alkaline silicate (silicate of potash) and alumina, the 
latter in the form of sulphate. It is stated that this wash will give so 
close a surface to sandstone that it can be polished.("?) Either of the 
solutions can be colored if desired.| 

Very many other solutions have been devised and tried both in 
Europe and in this country, but which, in the language of Professor 
Julien, " have in most cases resulted in complete failure, not arresting 
the exfoliation." 

* Dobson, Masoury and Stone-Cutting, p. 141. See also American Arch, and 
Builder, 1877, :i, p. 21, 38, and Notes on Building Construction, p. 79. 
tNotea on Building Construction, p 79. 
\ Jour. Franklin Inst., 3rd, Ixix, 1875, p. 338. 



r*ART II. 

THE KOdTvf^. 

A.— SOAP-STONE. 

This, although not properly a building stone, is of sufficient economic 
importance to merit attention. 

(1) COMPOSITION AND USES. 

Pure soap-stone is a massive or schistose variety of tiie mineral talc. 
In this form it is often called steatite, soap-stone, or pot-stone; chemi- 
cally, then, it is a hydrous silicate of magnesia of the following compo- 
sition, according to Dana:* Silica, G2.8; magnesia, 33.5; water, 3.7. 
The mercantile varieties are, however, nearly always more or less im- 
pure, iron sometimes replacing a part of the magnesia, while antho- 
phyllite, pyrite, pyrrohotite and quartz are common accessories. It is 
soft enough to be easily scratched by the thumb-nail, and has a marked 
soapy or greasy feeling, two characteristics which readily distinguish it 
from most other rocks. It can be sawn into slabs or turned on a latlie, 
and being, when well seasoned, very refractory, is much used for fire- 
stones in furnaces and stoves; it is also very extensively used for lining 
stationary wash-tubs. The finer varieties are, according to Dana, made 
into images in China, and into ink-stands and similar articles in other 
countries. It is cut i/ito vessels for culinary pur{)Oses in Lombardy, and 
was so used to some extent by the aborigines of North America. The 
liarder varieties are cut into gas Jets, and it is also used in the manu- 
facture of porcelain. " French chalk " is a fine, com])act variety used 
for tracing on cloth and for removing grease spots. The waste frag- 
ments are sometimes ground up and used for lubricating machinery. 
It is also utilized to some extent in the manufacture of so-(;alle<I mineral 
paints. The total product of the United States for 18S2 has been esti- 
mated at about G,OUO tons, with an average valuation of $15 per ton.i 

* Manual of Mineralogy and Litliology, p. 305. 

t Mineral ReHoiircMss of tlio United Skitos, tHS:5, ]>. Wi. 

357 



358 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

(2) SOAP-STONES OF THE VARIOUS STATES AND TERRITORIES. 

ArJcansas. — Specimens of a flue, compact, brecciated steatite have 
been received at the museum from some 12 miles north of Benton, 
Salina County. The supply is stated to be abundant.* 

District of Golumhia. — A small bed of soap-stone of apparently fair 
quality occurs at Indian Hill, about 2 miles northwest of the city of 
Washington^ It has not as yet been sufficiently quarried to demon- 
strate its value. Other beds of limited extent occur near Tennally town, 
not far from the District line, and on the Woodley Lane road. The 
beds are interstratified with the micaceous and hornblendic schists of 
the vicinity, and have a northeasterly and southwesterly strike. 

Massachusetts. — Quarries of soap-stone have been worked from time 
to time in Lynn field and North Dana, in this State. The Lynnfield 
stone occurs in connection with serpentine. It is soft enough to be 
readily cut with an ordinary hand-saw when first quarried, but hardens 
on exposure. When quarried, which it has not been since 1880, it was 
used chiefly for stove-backs, sills, and steps. At North Dana the soap- 
stone quarries were opened as early as 1840, and have at times been 
quite extensively worked. 

Neic Hampsliirc. — An extensive bed of fine quality soap-stone was dis- 
covered in 1794 at Francestown, in this State, and was worked as early 
as 1802. Up to 18G7 some 2,020 tons had been quarried and sold. In 
this latter year some 3,700 stoves were manufactured by one company 
alone. The business has been conducted upon a large scale CN^er since. 
The bed has been followed some 400 feet, and the present opening is 
some 40 feet wide, SO feet long, and 80 feet deep. Other beds consti- 
tuting a part of the same formation occur in Weare, Warner, Canter- 
bury, and Richmond, all of which have been operated to a greater or 
less extent. Five beds of soap-stone also occur in the town of Orford, 
and an important quarry was opened as early as 1855 in Haverhill. It 
has not, however, been worked continuously.t 

Neio York. — Soap-stone or talc occurs in abundance in Fowler and Ed- 
wards, Saint Lawrence County, in this State. It is said to be of good 
quality, remarkably tough, and very refractory in fire.| 

North Carolina. — Soap-stone of fine quality occurs in several locali- 
ties in the southwestern i)art of this State, the museum collection show- 
ing specimens from 7 miles northeast of Murphy, Cherokee County ; 
from 4J miles from Greenborough, Guilford County; from Alamance 
County ; from Nantehala River, Cherokee County; and from Deep River, 
Moore County. Of these the Nantehala stone is a pure, nearly white, 
compact talc, said to be fully equal to the best French chalk. It has 
been much used as a white earth. The Deep River "soap-stone" is a 

*Affr. Min. & Timber Resources of Ark., 1884. 
t Geology of New Hampshire, Vol. Iil, p. 8G-88. 
X Geology of New York, 1838, p. 20G. 



\ 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 359 

compact variety of the miueial pyropliyllito. This is also used as wliito 
earth. Both these stones are shipped in bulk to New York, where they 
are ground and bolted. The stones from the other localities are of the 
ordinary type of soap stones, but apparently of good quality. 

Pennsylvania. — In the southern edge of Montgomery County, " ex- 
tending from the northern brow of Chestnut Hill between the two turn- 
pikes, across the Wissabi(;kon Creek and the Schuylkill to a point about 
a mile west of Merion Square," occurs a long, straight outcrop of stea- 
tite and serpentine. The eastern and central part of this belt on its 
soutlieru side ''consists chiefly of a talcose steatite" while the north- 
ern side contains much serpentine interspersed in lumps through the 
steatite. Only in a few neighborhoods does the steatite or serpentine 
occur in a state of sufficient purity to be profitably quarried. On the 
east bank of the Schuylkill, about 2 miles below Spring Mill, a good 
quality of material occurs that has long been successfully worked. It 
has also been quarried on the west bank of the river about a third 
of a mile away, and to a less extent on the west bank of the Wissa- 
hickon, opposite Thorp's Mill. The material is now used principally for 
lining stoves, fireplaces, and furnaces, though toward the end of the 
last century and the early part of the present one, before the intro- 
duction of Montgomery County marble, it was in considerable demand 
for door steps and sills. It proved poorly adapted for this purpose, 
however, owing to the unequal hardness of its different constituents, 
the soap stone wearing rapidly away, while the serpentine was left pro- 
jecting like knots or "hob-nails in a plank."* 

^outh Carolina. — Steatite or soap-stone is said to occur in this State 
in the counties of Chester, Spartanburgh, Union, Pickens, Oconee, An- 
derson, Abbeville, Kershaw, Fairfield, and Kichland. The Anderson 
County stone is said to have been much used for hearthstones. That 
of Pickens County is considered of value, but it has been quarried to 
a very limited extent.t 

The writer has seen some of this material. The national collections 
contain a single specimen of a very compact, nearly black steatitic 
roek marked as from Yorkville, in York County, but there are no data 
concerning its occurrence or utility. 

Texas. — Soap-stone of good quality and inexhaustible in quantity is 
stated to occur in large veins on tiie Hondo and Sandy Creeks, about 
midway of their courses through Llano County.| 

Vermont. — Most of the steatite of this State is found on the east side 
of the Green Mountains and near the eastern- line of the talcose slate 
formation, beds of.it extending nearly the entire length of the State. 
The rock occurs usually associated with seri)entino and hornblende. 
The beds are not continuous and have, as a rule, a great thickness in 



* Rep. C*, Geol. Survey of Pa., pp. 9.5, 9(5. 

t South Carolina, Population, Resources, etc., 1883. 

\ Second Ann. Rep. Gcol. of Tex., 187(;, p. 'iO. 



3C0 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

comparison with tlieir length. It not infrequently happens that several 
isolated outcrops occur on the same line of strata, sometimes several 
miles apart, and in many cases alternating with beds of dolomitic lime- 
stone that are scattered along with them. 

At least sixty beds of this rock occur in the State in the towns of Reads- 
boro, Marlborough, Newfane, Windham, Townsend, Athens, Grafton, 
Andover, Chester, Cavendish, Baltimore, Ludlow, Plymouth, Bridge- 
water, Thetford, Bethel, Rochester, Warren, Braintree, Waitsfield, 
Moretown, Duxbury, Waterbury, Bolton, Stow, Cambridge, Waterville, 
T5erkshire, Eden, Lowell, Belvidere, Johnson, Enosburgh, Westfield, 
Richford, Troy, and Jay. 

Of the beds named those in Grafton and Athens are stated to have 
been longest worked and to have produced the most stone. The beds 
lie in gneiss. The quarries were profitably worked as early as 1820. 
Another important bed is that in the towai of Weathersfield. This, 
like that of Grafton, is situated in gneiss, but has no overlying rock, 
and the soap-stone occurs in inexhaustible quantities. It was first 
worked about 1847, and during 1859 about 800 tons of material were 
removed and sold. The Rochester beds were also of great importance, 
the stone being peculiarly fine-grained and compact. It was formerly 
much used in the manufacture of refrigerators. The quality of the 
stone is represented to be unusually good and free from impurities.* 
The bed at Newfime occurs in connection with serpentine, and is some 
half a mile in length by not less than 12 rods in width at its northern 
extremity. The soap-stone and serpentine are strangely mixed, and the 
general course of the bed being like that of an irregular vein of granite 
in limestone. 

Virginia. — Soap-stone occurs in this State, according to Professor 
Rogers,! near the mouth of the Hardware River, both in Fluvanna and 
Buckingham Counties. There is also a bed of it associated with the tal- 
cose slates in Albemarle County, a little west of the Green Mountain. 
Specimens have been received from near this locality which were of ex- 
cellent quality. The beds from here extend in a southwesterly direction, 
passing through Nelson County, where they are associated with serpen- 
tine ; thence they cross the James River abore Lynchburgh, and present 
an outcrop about 2 miles westward of the town on the road leading to 
Liberty ; also one about 2 J miles westward of New London. Continuing 
in the same direction it is seen at the meadows of Goose Creek, where 
it has been quarried to some extent. Continuing in the same general 
direction the soai)-stone again appears in several nearly parallel ranges, 
of which the most eastern makes its appearance near the Pigg River, 
in Franklin County. A second belt occurs in the same vicinity near 
the eastern base of Jack's Mountain ; a third still farther west, about 1 
mile from Franklin Court-House, and a fourth yet more to the west, on 

'Geology of Vermont, Vol. ii, p. 783-91. 
t Geology of the Virgiuias, p. 79. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. i)6l 

the eastern slope of Orassy ITill. The material fVoin near Franklin 
Court-House is stated to be the best of any of the abov^e. Al)out 30 
miles southwest from Richmond, at Chula, in Amelia County, there are 
outcrops of soai^-stone said to be of tine quality, and which in former 
times were quite extensively operated by the Indians. They have been 
re-oi)ened within a few years, and the material is now in the market. 
Specimens of the stone in the Museum collection are by no means pure 
talc, but carry abuiulant lonp^ brownish libers of some amphibolic min- 
eral. 

B. SERPENTIXR, OPntCALCITE, VERDANTIQUE MArfP.LE. 

(1) COMPOSITION, OlilGIN, AND USES OF SERPENTINE. 

Serpentine is essentially a hy<lrous silicate of magnesia, consisting 
when pure of nearly cijual proitortions of silica and magnesia with from 
J 2 to 13 per cent, of water. The massive varieties quarried for archi- 
tectural purposes are always more or less impure, containing frequently 
from 10 to 12 jier cent, of iron protoxides, together with varying quan- 
tities of chrome iron (chromite), iron pyrites, hornblende, olivine, min- 
erals of the pjToxene group, and the carbonates of lime and magnesia. 

The origin of serpentine rocks has long been a matter of dispute 
among geologists, liecent investigations tend to show that in many 
cases they result unmistakably from the alteration of igneous eruptive 
rocks, especially the olivine bearing varieties, such as the i)eridotites 
and gabbros. In the varities ophicalcite, consisting of intermingled 
serpentine and calcite or dolomite, the serpentine is apparently in all 
cases derived by a i^rocees of hydration and decalcification from a 
non-aluminous pyroxene. The theory long ably advocated by Dr. Tfunt 
to the effect that the serpentine occurring intercalated with beds of 
schistose rocks and limestones resulted from metamorphism of silico- 
magnesian sediments deposited by sea waters is now very generally 
abandoned, and it is doubtful if the substance evar occurs as an ori- 
ginal deposit even in the eflzoonal forms, but is presumablj^ .always 
secondary.* 

Serpentine is a soft, though somewhat tough, compact rock of vari- 
able color, usually greenish, though often variously streaked and spotted 
with yellow, yellowish green, brownish or more rarely red, its color de- 
pending, according to Delesse,t upon the degree of oxidation under- 
gone by the included ferruginous mineral. The name serpentine is 

* For furtlior infoniiatiou on this point tlio niiuler is reforred to such i>apers as 
T, G. Bonney on tlio scsrpoiitino and associated rocks of the Lizard District. Qii.ar. 
Jonr. Gcol. Soo. of London, 1877, Vol. xxxiii, p. 11, p. 884, and on tho sorpc^ntinc and 
as.sociatcd rocks of tlio Ayrshire coast, same journal, 1878, Vol. xxxiv, j). 7(>'J. Also 
T. S. Hunt on Geological History of Scri)ontino, Trans. Royal Soc. of Canada, Vol. I, 
Sec. IV, p. 10!), and Wadswor til's Litholoj^ical Studios; also Williams on Serpentine 
of Syracuse, N. Y., Am. Jour. Sci., Aug. 1887. 

1 Zii'kel, Petrography, Vol. i, p. :520. 



362 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

from the Latin Scrpentinns^ a serpent, owing to its color and spotted 
appearance. Several varieties are recognized, the general name Vcr- 
dantique marble being often applied indiscriminately to all, though the 
name (Verde Antico) was originally applied only to the various veined 
and brecciated serpentiuous rocks, used by the Koraans, and obtained 
from Italy, Greece, and Egypt. Ophite (from the Greek ^^jtijc, like a 
serpent) is the name also often given to those varieties consisting of an 
intimate mixture of serpentine and calcite or dolomite. These rocks 
are also called ophiolite and ophicalcite by various writers. 

Precious serpentine is the pure translucent massive varitey of a rich 
oil green color. Chrysotile and amianthus are the names applied to 
the fibrous silky variety, such as that from Canada, which is mined and 
utilized as asbestus. 

Owing to its softness, which is such that it can be readily carved or 
turned on a lathe and its beautiful colors when polished, serjientine has 
long been a favorite with all civilized nations for ornaments and inte- 
rior decorative work. The rock, however, occurs almost universally in 
a badly jointed condition, so that blocks of small size only can be ob- 
tained, or if large, they are liable to break under pressure or even in 
l)rocess of dressing. (See illustration, Plate VI.) In the great majority 
of cases, moreover, the stone is unsuited for polished work that is to be 
exposed to the weather, since it shortly loses its gloss, wears unevenly, 
and becomes as unsightly as it was once beautiful. The Lizard (Eng- 
land) serpentine can be obtained, it is stated, in blocks 7 to 8 feet in 
length and irom 2 to 3 feet in diameter, and it is being now much used 
in churches for ornamental fonts, pulpits, and small shafts and pilasters, 
as well as for vases and inlaid work.* According to Delesset this 
stone takes a beautiful and lasting polish, as shown by certain tomb- 
stones in Westminster Abbey which were erected in 1710. The cele- 
brated Verdi di Prato, from near Florence, Italy, although equally 
beautiful, however, is subject to rapid decay, and is hence entirely un- 
suited for exterior work. Serpentine for ornamental work is at the 
present time scarcely at all quarried in th§ Unitoil States, although in- 
exhaustible quantities are found in many instances and of exception- 
ally fine quality'. The following are the principal localities in the 
United States, nearly all of which are represented in some form in the 
national collection. 

{2) SERrENTINES OF THE VARIOUS STATES AND TERRITORIES. 

California. — Inexhaustible quantities of serpentine of a deep green 
or yellowish color occur in the region round about San Francisco, and 
often in such situations as to be easily available, as at the head of 
Market street. So far as observed none of the material is of such a 
quality as to render it of value for ornamental work, while its gloomy 

'Hull, Buildiuj; and Ornamental Stones, p. 102. 
t Materiaux de Construction, p. 75. 



Report of National Museum, 1 886.- Merrill. 



Plate VI. 







Serpentine Quarry, Chester, Pennsylvania. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 363 

color rentiers it equally objectionable for i>urposcs of general construc- 
tion. 

The rock is also abundant in other parts of the State, but the writer 
having seen none of the material, excepting as displayed in small frag- 
ments in the State museum at San Francisco, will refrain from further 
remarks on the subject. 

Connecticut. — The seri)entine deposits of Connecticut are thus de- 
scribed by Professor Shepard.* "Connecticut prospers, however, in the 
green marbles of Mil ford, a material for decoration much more beauti- 
ful and highly prized than white marble. Tliese were tirst detected in 
1811. Two quarries were soon after opened, one near the village of 
Milford, and called the Milfbrd quarry; the other 2A miles west of New 
Ilaven, and called the New Haven quarry. They were wrought witli 
considerable activity for several years, and furnished an abundance of 
very rich marble ; but as the working of them was attended with heavy 
expense from the difficulty of obtaining blocks of large dimensions that 
were perfectly sound, and from the labor required in sawing aiul pol- 
ishing, they were in a few years abandoned, and liave for a long time 
been in a neglected condition. The experiment i^rovod an unfortunate 
oue, therefore, not from any deficiency of marble or its lack of beauty — 
for these were both fully admitted — but from a want of w^ealth and 
taste in the country to sustain the price. 

It was perhaps an unfortunate thing that the whole of the marble 
afforded by these quarries was denominated verdc antique^ whereas but 
a small part of that furnished is entitled to this name. 

The quarry at Milford is capable of furnishing abundant supplies of 
this highly valued marble (/. ^., the verde antique variety), although, 
from the circumstance that it occupies narrow and irregular seams 
among the veined marble blocks or slabs of any size, it must always be 
dear compared with pieces sawn as formerly, without any regard to its 
separation from the more common kind. * ♦ * Whenever the attempt 
to work it is made, it is to be hoped that the experience of the past will 
l)revent its use for monuments exposed to the weather, for besides the 
incongruity of its colors compared with the marbles usually employed 
for this purpose, it soon loses its lustre and emits color from the action 
of the weather on the grains of magnetic iron ore it contains. 

The New llaveu marble, though destitute of the accidental and in 
some measure classical value which pertains to the Milford variety, is 
nevertheless a beautiful thing for decoration. In viv.acity of colors 
and the delicacy of their arrangement it is hardly capable of being sur- 
passed. It may be described as a bluish gray or dove-colored limestone 
clouded with greenish yellow serpentine, the latter containing black 
grains and slieet veins of magnetic iron ore. The disposition of the 
colors is cloud-like, flamed, and veined. It polishes with difliculty in 

* Kei)ort on tlio geological survey of Conuocticiit, by C. U. Shepard, 18:57, pp. 101- 
103. 



364 Report on national musKitm, isso. 

consequence of tlic ina.i?n otic- iron it contains, vA'liicli, though it heightens 
its beauty, uniits it i"oi' exposure to the weather." So far as the present 
writer is aware tbese quarries have uot been worked since the time 
mentioned by Trofessor Shepard ; i. e., since a few years subsequent to 
IS 11. 

7>c/a?rrtre.— Serpentine of various sliadcs of green is stated to occur 
about miles nortlieast from Wilmington, New Castle County, and also 
to the westward, near the State line, where I>randywine Creek enters 
the State line from rcnnsylvajiia.* So far as the Curator is aware it 
has never been quarried. 

Maine. — A large bed of Hori)entine occurs on the northern end of 
Deer Tsle, in Penobscot Bay, in this State. The rock is very massive, 
and of a <lark green, almost black (!olor, sometimes streaked and spotted 
by veins of amianthus and diallage crystals. It is indeed almost too 
dark and somber for ornamental work, but seems well adapted for 
general building purposes and very durable. A company was formed 
some years ago for working this stone, and who erected a shoj) for saws 
and grinding beds. A considerable amount of material was quarried, 
but the work was soon discontinued, and had not been resumed at the 
time of the Avritcr's visit in ISSl. The company seem to have fallen 
into the error of supposing that the stone could be used in long pieces 
and slabs suitable for window trimmings, door-posts, etc., for which, 
owing to its jointed condition, it is entirely unfitted. The deposit 
covers a nearly level .area of many acres in extent, and within a short 
distance of tlie ship])ing wh.arf. 

Maryland. — In the vicinity of Broad Creek, in Harford Couidy, in 
this State, occurs a v(^ry large deposit of serpentine, which is described 
by Professor Genth t substantially as follows : 

" The outcrop of the first or upper bed of green serpentine, of about 
500 feet in thickness, can be traced by its outcrop almost the whole dis- 
tance between the upper ford on Broad Creek and over the hill in a north- 
easterly direction to a ravine on the same creek, a distance of about 
1,800 feet ; it also crosses the creek in a southwesterly direction, but it 
has not been ascertained how far it extends. The outcrop of the se(;ond 
bed was measured on the top of the hill between tlie horseshoe of 
Broad Creek, and found to be about 180 feet, and it is very conspicuous 
on the west side of the creek. Its full extent was not determined. The 
rock is a variety of massive seri)entino somewhat resembling ttiilliamsifc, 
and shows sometimes a slightly slaty structure. It occurs in various 
shades, from a pale leek green to a deep bhuikish green, and from a 
small admixture of magnetic iron, more or less clouded; rarely with 
thin veins of dolomite ])assing through the mass. It is translucent to 
semi transparent, exceedingly tough, and its hardness is considerably 



• Gcol. of Dclii., 1841, 1). :Jo. 

tGicological Report of tlio Maryland '' Verdo Aiitiqno" marJdc, <i((;., iti Harford 
Couuty, Md., by Prof. V. A. (UmiMi, iH/f.. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONEH. .3G5 

greater tliaii that of marble." An analysis oi" the deep-green variety 
gave the following resnlts : 



I'er amt. 

Mii<^nesi;i 39. Oii 

Wiitor 1-i.lO 

Maguetic irou 3. 02 

lUO, (K) 



Pit cent. 

Silicic acid 40. 0(5 

Alnniina ].:$7 

Chromic oxido 0.20 

NiccroloiKs t>.\iilo 0. 71 

FerndLS oxido ;?. 43 

Maiigiiuous oxido 0. O'J | 

Specific gravity 2.068, equal a weight of 106| pounds per cubic foot, 
or practically the same as granite. S])ecime]is of this stone received at 
the National JMuseum admitted of a very high lustrous polish, the colors 
being quite uniformly green, slightly mottled with lighter and darker 
shades. It is not a true verde anti<iue in the sense in which this name 
was originally enq)loyed. So far as can be judged from appearances, 
this is a most excellent stone, and admirably suited for interior decora- 
tive work. 

About miles north of the city of Baltimore, at a locality known as 
the Bare Ilills, occurs an outcrop of a coarse light-green serpentine 
covering many acres. The rock is (piito porous, of a dull light-green 
color, and unfitted for auy kind of ornamental work, but admirably 
fitted for general building, especially in rock-faced .and rubble work. 

At the tiujc of the writer's visit, in the summer of 1885, but a single 
quarry had been opened, and this was not at the time in operation. 
The material hud been used with excellent effect in the construction of 
a school-house in the immediate vicinity. The stone occurs in the form 
of low rounded masses or bosses, and is regarded by Dr. G. II. Will- 
iams as an altered gabbro.* The supply is inexhaustible. Portions of 
Ihe ro(;k carry a very considerable amount of chrome iron, which was 
at one time mined here quite extensively. In the quarry the rock oc- 
curs in a very badly jointed condition, and the blocks are rounded and 
irregular. Firm blocks several feet in length can, however, be obtained, 
which cut uj) readily into sizes suitable for house walls and similar 
pur[)oses. 

The Museum has received from the farm of Mr. George W. Leakin, in 
this vicinity, samples of a fine dark-green rock, which took a fair polish, 
and perhaps might prove suitable for decorative work. 

M((.smchi(i)€lts. — Serpentine exists in Massachusetts in great abun- 
dance, paiti(uilarly in the lloosac JNluuntain Bange. " The most exten- 
sive bed occurs in Middlefield, in the southern part of the town. This 
bed cat! not be less than a quarter of a mile in breadth and 5 or G miles 
long. The (colors of the rock are various and its hardness unequal. 
If wrought, it might sui)ply the whole world. It yields both the prec- 
ious and the common varieties. There is another bed in the same town, 
associated with steatite or soapstone. In the west part of Westfield is 
found another extensive bed of this rock, extending into liussell, of a 
much darker color, and containing green talc. This has been used in 

* liull. U. S. bcoTTsurvciy, No. 28. " 



^QQ REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

a few iiistauces for oriiameutal aicliitecture, aud has a rich appearance 
when wrouglit. 

Three beds of serpeutiue are fouud iii Blauford and anotlier in I'el- 
bam, in the southwest part of the town. The color of this hist is dark, 
and the quantity of the talc is considerably large. A large bed occurs 
iu connection with soapstoue on the north side of Deerfield liiver, in 
Zoar, near the turnpike from Greenfield to Williamstown. Specimens 
froui this place resemble those from the celebrated localities of this 
rock at Zoblitz, in Saxony." Two beds of serpentine exist also at 
Windsor, iu this State. 

"A locality of noble or precious serpentine has long been known to 
exist in Newbury, 2i miles south of Newburyi)ort, at an abandoned lime 
quarry called the "Devil's Deu." Ouly small masses can bo here ob- 
tained, but when polished they will compare with any in the world for 
beauty.* 

Perhaps tlie most interesting and important bed of this rock that has 
as yet been found in the State is that at Lynntield, in Essex County.! 
The bed has been traced from a point near the center of the town 
some 2 or 3 miles in a northeasterly direction. When lirst cpiarried 
the stone is said to be so soft that it can be cut with a handsaw and 
very readily turned on a lathe. 

Ncic Jersey. — A beautiful deep-green and oil yellow, often translucent 
seri)entiue, occurs, associated with dolomite, at Montville, in tliis State. 
Only pieces of small size are obtainable, and though of exceptional 
beauty the stone has never been utilized except for cabinet specimens.^ 

New Yorlc. — At Moriah, in Essex County, in this State, there has 
been quarried from time to time under the mime of ophite marble a 
j)eculiar granular stone consisting of an intimate mixture of serpentine 
and dolomite or calcite interspersed with small flecks of phlogopite. 
The rock varies from a linely granular granitic-appearing rock, consist- 
iuf of about equal parts of serpentine and dolomite, to one in which the 
serpentine patches are some 2 or 3 inches or even a foot in diameter; 
The rock takes a good surface and polish, and by properly selecting the 
material and exercising judgment in cutting, these variations in texture 
can be made productive of very good effects. 

This same stone is also found at Port Henry and Minerva, in the 
same county, and at Thurman, in Warren County. § 

It is stated II that the largest and most valuable deposit of serpeutiue 



* Hitchcock's Geology of Massachusetts. Vol. 1, p. 158. 

+ Hitchcock's Geology of Massachusetts, p. 159. 

\. This serpeutiue has heon receutly showu to he derived from a uou-aluuiiuous py- 
roxeue. Proc. Nat. Mus., 1888, p. 105. 

vS Report of .Judges, U. S. Ceut. Ex., Vol. in, p. 158. 

II Geology of New York, 18:58, p. 205. The writer has recently shown that the Port 
lli'ury and Warren County ophiolitea are altered pyroxenic limestones, Am. Jour. 
Sci., Mar., 1889. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 367 

iu the SUitc is loiuid in the towns of Gouverneur, Fowler, iiiul Kdwarils, 
ill St. Lawrence Connty. The rock is said to be massive and sonnd, 
and remarkably free from the checks and Haws usually so ])rofusely 
developed in rocks of this class. In ritcairu, in the same county, there 
is also a fine deposit of serpentine of the variety commonly called 
precious. The calcareous spar is white or grayish-white, and forms a 
liaudsome background for the translucent serpentine. The quality of 
the rock is said to be excellent and free from natural flaws and fissures. 

Serpentine also forms the main range of hills on Staten Island, and 
extends from New Brighton to a little west of liichmond, a distance of 
8 miles. The rock assumes a variety of colors, from almost black to 
nearly white. 

North Carolina. — The massive varieties of serpentine are found in 
many localities. The best ai>pears to come from the neighborhood of 
Patterson, Caldwell County. It has a dark, greenish-black color, and 
contains tine veins of the yellowish-green fibrous and silky chrysotile, 
and admits of a line i)olish j greenish-gray massive serpentine, also with 
seams of greenish and grayish white chrysotile is found at the Baker 
mine in Caldwell County, at which place are also found the vaiieties 
marmoUte 'And picrolite ; this last also occurs abundantly in the Buck 
Creek corundum mine, Clay County. Dark green serpentine has been 
observed in the neighborhood of Asheville, in Buncombe County, iu 
Forsythe and Wake Counties. A grayish or yellowish green serpen- 
tine occurs in Caldwell, Wilkes, Surry, Yancey, Stokes, Orange, and 
Wake Counties, in the chrysolite beds of Macon, Jackson, Yancey, 
INlitchell, W^ataugti, Burke, and other counties. It results from the de- 
composition of the chrysolite.* 

The writer has seen but a single sample of these rocks, and hence 
can express no opinion regarding their value. 

rcnnsylvania. — Serpentine, suitable for general building purposes, 
occurs in large quantities in the extreme southwestern portion of Chester 
County, near the Maryland line. There is also another large trtict in 
the eastern part of the county and several smaller ones in the south- 
eastern jiart, intervening between the two already mentioned. Quite 
similar tracts occur in the central i)art of Delaware County to the east 
of Chester, in the extreme southern portion of Lancaster County on the 
west, and in the southeastern part of Montgomery County, one of the 
largest of which is passed through by the Philadelphia and Beading 
Railroad near JNIechanicsville. These serpentines are nearly altogether 
of a porous nature, light grayish-green in color and eminently adapted 
for purposes of general construction. As a rule they acquire a very 
dull and poor polish and are unfitted for the finer grades of ornamental 
work. In every particular they corresi)ond closely with the serpentine 
of the Bare Hills, Maryland, already described. The quarries at the 
present time most extensively worked are located on what are known as 

^Geology of North Carolina, 1881, j). 57. 



368 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

tlio Chester Biiri-eus, near the town of West Chester. Quarries were 
first opened hero in 1790, and up to date upward of 500,000 cubic yards 
of material have been taken out. The rock, as usual, occurs only in a 
jointed condition, and blocks of large size can not be obtained ; the 
largest yet quarried measured 3 feet square by 16 feet in length. 

The principal markets for the quarried material are New York, Phil- 
adelphia, Baltimore, Washington, and Chicago, though it has been used 
in Philadelphia to a greater extent than elsewhere. The University of 
Pennsylvania, Academy of Natural Sciences, and about twenty churches 
in this city are of serpentine. 

Quarries that have been worked in years past occur near the Mary- 
laud line (Rising Sun post-office), and in Media, Delaware County. The 
price of the rough stone at tlie quarries varies from 20 to 40 cents per 
cubic foot, and the cost of dressing varies from 5 to 15 cents per square 
foot of surface.* A beautiful deep lustrous green variety susceptible of 
a high i^olish and known as Williamsite was found in abundant small 
pieces during the working of the Fulton township chromite mines. 
Excepting as polished specimens for mineral cabinets the material was 
uever utilized. 

Although the Chester County stone has been upon the general market 
only about ten years it has already acquired an excellent reputation. 
To the writer it seems, however, that in the majority of cases v^ery poor 
taste has been shown on the part of the designers, very many of the 
buildings being anything but beautiful from an architectural stand-point, 
Tlie almost universal practice of using a light, yellowish-gray sandstone 
for the trimmings in houses of this material should also be condemned, 
since the contrast is not sufficient nor satisfactory. 

The use of the stone in cities has not been long enough continued to 
furnish accurate data regarding its durability there, but it is stated that 
houses erected in the vicinity of the quarries one hundred and fifty 
years ago show the color of the stone to day as fresh as when first quar- 
ried. The writer's personal observations are, however, to the effect 
that in a majority of cases many of the blocks exposed in a wall turn 
whitish, or at least fade to a lighter green. Such a change can scarcely 
be considered detrimental. 

Vermont— The bed of talcose slate that extends in a general northern 
and southern direction throughout the entire length of central Vermont 
bears numerous outcrops of serpentine or of serpentine in combination 
-with dolomite, but which, so far as the writer is aware, have been 
quarried in but two localities, Eoxbury and Cavendish. The quarry at 
Cavendish was worked very early, having been opened about 1835,f be- 
fore there were adequate means of transportation of the quarried stone 
or there was any sufficient demand for so expensive a material. The 

• See Geology of Chester County, Vol. C*, Second Geological Survey of Pennsyl- 
vania, p. 61, et al. 
t Geology of Vermont, Vol. ii, p. 778-9. 



BUILDING AND OKNAMENTAL .STONE8. 369 

nietbods of vvorkini,^ ;ui(l poli.sliinj;- tlic stone wore, iiioicovcr, so little 
understood that very poor results were obtained and the works were 
shortly discontinued as a consequence. 

lu lioxbury the American Verd-antiquo Marble Company early opened 
quarries and erected a mill for sawing. The business was pushed quite 
vigorously for a time, but owing to several causes, probably iho same 
as the first enumerated, the works were shut down in 1858, and have 
not since been re opened. A considerable quantity of the material was 
taken out for the interior decorations of the United States Capitol ex- 
tensions, but for some reason, unknown to the writer, it was never used. 
The Vermont stones are among the most beautiful of all our serpen- 
tines and the best adapted for all kinds of interior decorative work. The 
colors are deep, bright green, traversed by a coarse network of white 
veins. It is designated by Hunt* an ophiolite, and is stated by him to 
be a mixture of serpentine, talc, and ferriferous carbonate of magnesia. 
It acquires a smooth surface and beautiful polish, and it is a serious com- 
ment upon American taste that there is not sufticient demand for the 
material to cause the quarries to be re-opened. At Cavendish the rail- 
road now passes within one-half mile of the quarry and good water- 
power is close at hand, while the Roxbury quarry is within 30 ivds of the 
railway station. The rock lacks the brecciated structure characteristic 
of most foreign verd-antique, but compares more closely with the 
variety known as Verde di Geneva than with any other with which the 
author is acquainted. Among the other localities in this State in which 
serpentine occurs may be mentioned llichford, Montgomery, Jay, Troy, 
Lowell, Middlesex, Wailsfield, Warren, Ilochester, Ludlow, Windhanj, 
Wadsborough, and Dover. 

Of the Lowell stone it is stated t that two ranges of serpentine occur, 
commencing near the headwaters of the Missiseo and extending nearly 
to Canada. " For the richness and number of the varieties it would not 
seem possible that they can be surpassed, while their extent, amounting 
to 20 or 30 square miles, is beyond the possible demand of all future 
ages. They are exhibited in several precipitous ledges, which are easy 
of access and of being worked." 

Concerning the locality at Troy, the same authority states: "Elegant 
varieties are numerous, among which are most conspicuous the very 
bright green noble serpentine, which covers most of the numerous jointed 
faces with a coat of one-eighth to one-half of an inch thick, and the 
spotted varieties. Numerous seams may render it difllcult to obtain 
large slabs, but snuiUer pieces, suitable for a great variety of ornamental 
purposes, may be obtained, of great beauty and in any quantity." 

* T. S. Hunt, on Opliiolitcs, Am. Jour, of Sci., Vol. xxv, p. 2o9 ; secoud series, p. 
226. 
tGoolofjy of Vermont, ISfil, Vol. t, p. 544. 

n. Mis. 170, pt. 2 24 



370 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

C— GiraUM. ALABASTER. 

This can scarcely be considered a building-stone, and it is used only 
to a small extent for ornamental purposes. We may, however, devote 
a little si)ace to the subject. 

(1) COMPOSITION AND USES OF GYPSUM. 

Pure gyi)8um is composed of the sulphate of lime and water in the 
proportions of about 79.1 per cent, of the former to 20.9 percent, of the 
latter (ante, p. 370). Three varieties are common : (1) crystallized gyp- 
sum or selenite, which occurs in broad, Hat, transparent plates sometimes 
a yard in diameter and of value only as mineral specimens and for 
optical i)nrposes ; (U) fibrous gypsum, which includes the variety satin 
sj)ar used for making small ornaments ; and (3) massive gypsum, which 
includes the common white and clouded varieties used in making plaster, 
and the i)ure, white, fine-grained variety alabaster.* 

(2) LOCALITIES OF GYPSUM IN THE UNITED STATES. 

The principal localities of gypsum in the United States as given by 
Danat are in New York, Ohio, Illinois, Iowa, Virginia, Tennessee, and 
Arkansas, where it occurs in extensive beds and usually associated with 
salt springs. It is also found associated with Triassie deposits in the 
Kocky Mountain region. Ilandsome selenite and snowy gypsum are 
also stated to occur near Lockport and Camillus, N. Y., in Davidson 
County, Tenn, and in the form of rosettes in the Mammoth Cave of 
Kentucky. 

According to G. F. Kunz f the ornaments of satin spar sold at Niag- 
ara Falls and other " tourist places" are nearly all imported from Wales, 
though some few of the common white variety are cut from the beds of 
this stone found in the vicinity. The Italian alabaster is used exten- 
sively in making statuettes (see p. 473), but the common varieties found 
in this country and Nova Scotia are used chietiy for laud plaster and as 
plaster of paris, or stucco. So far as the Curator is aware the gypsum 
quarried at Fort Dodge, Iowa, is the only one that has been at all used 
for structural purposes in this country. 

According to Dr. White § several residences, a railway station, and 
ether minor structures, including a large culvert, have been built of 
gypsum at this i)lace. In the construction of the culvert the lower 
courses that came in contact with the water were of limestone, as the 
gypsum had proven slightly soluble and hence less durable in such po- 
sitions. The stone is regarded by Dr. White as very durable in ordi- 

* Much of tlie material popularly called alabastei- is in reality travertine (seep. 375.) 

t Text book of Mineralogy, p. .193. 

t Miu. Resources of the Unitoil States, 1883-'84, p. 77. 

^SGeol, of Iowa, Vol. ii, p. 30'^, 



BUn.DING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 371 

nary situations, ami tlio case witli wliich it can be worked reii<lers it 
prefGrablo to the liiuestoues in tlio imiucdiato vicinity. Tlie method of 
quarrying is to bore holes with a comiuon auger and then blast by 
means of powder. The blocks are then trimmed to the proper size and 
shape by means of common wood-saws and hatchets or axes. 



i).— LIMESTONES AND DOLOMITES. 

(1) CHEMICAL COMPOSITION AND ORIGIN. 

Pure limestone consists entirely of calcium carbonate. In point of 
fact, however, none of our limestones are chemically pure, but all con- 
tain more or less foreign materials, such as magnesia, oxides of iron, 
silica, clay, bituminous nuitter, mica, talc, and other minerals. 

In pomi)osition, texture, and general appearance, limestones vary al- 
most indefiuitely. They may be hard, compact, line-grained rocks of 
almost flint-like texture, or, again, coarsely porous, oolitic, or crystal- 
line, the crystals varying in size from too small to be visil)lo to the 
naked eye to an inch or more in length. 

Pure limestone is white in color, but water blue, gray, green, i^ink, 
red, and black varieties are common, the colors being de])endent npon 
various imi)urities, such as the oxides of iron and carbonaceous matter 
caused by animal and plant remains. The pink and red colors are 
caused by iron oxides, while the blue, gra,y^ and black varieties owe 
their hues to the prevailing carbonaceous avitter. The green color of 
some of the Vermont marbles appears to be due to talc. 

Limestones are regarded by geologists as of either chemical origin 
eras resulting from the deposition of organic remains, such as shells 
and corals. Of the first kind are the tufas and travertines 5 of the 
second, the fossiliferous limestones, such as the cucrinital stones of Ohio 
and the shell marbles of Tennessee. Either variety may have under- 
gone the change called metamorphism, and all traces of their origin 
have been destroyed. 

Limestones occur in stratified beds among rocks of all geological 
ages, from the Archiean to the most recent. The majority of those used 
for building and ornamental work belong either to the Cambrian, Silu- 
rian, Devonian, or Carboniferous ages. 

(2) VARIETIES OF LIMESTONES AND DOLOMITES. 

The following list includes all the principal varieties of limestone 
popularly recognized, the distinctions being founded upon their struct- 
ure, chemical composition, and mode of origin : 

Crystalline limestone. Marble. — An entirely crystalline, granular ag- 
gregate of calcite crystals. The crystals arc usually of quite uniform 
size in the same marble, but often vary widely in those from different lo- 



372 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

calities. The liue-graiued white varieties which appear like loaf sugar 
are called saccharoidal. Common statuary marble is a good example of 
this variety. 

Compact common limestone. — A fine-graiued crystalline aggregate 
which to the eye often appears quite homogeneous and amorphous. 
It is rarely pure, but contains admixtures of other minerals, giving 
rise to many varieties, to whicli particular names are given. Litho- 
graphic limestone is an extremely fine-grained crystalline rock, with but 
a small amount of impurities, and of a drab or yellowish hue. Bitu- 
minous limestone contains a cousidorable proportion of bitumen, caused 
hy decomposing animal or vegetable matter. Its presence is easily 
recognized by the odor of petroleum given off when the rock is freshly 
broken. Hydraulic limestone contains 10 per cent, and upwards of silica 
and usually some alumina. When burnt into lime and made into mortar 
or cement it has the property of setting under water. Oolitic limestones 
are made up of small rounded concretionary grains that have become 
cemented together to form a solid rock. These little rounded grains 
resemble the roe of a fish ; hence the name, from the Greek word coon, 
an egg. Where the grains are nearly the size of a pea the rock is 
called pisolite. Such a rock is now in process of formation along the 
shore of Pyramid Lake, Nevada. Oolitic limestones suitable for build- 
ing purposes are quite abundant in Iowa, Indiana, and Kentucky. 

Travertine, or Calc Winter, is limestone deposited by running streams 
and springs. It occurs in all gradations of texture from light flaky to 
a compact rock fit for buittling. A light, porous calc sinter has been 
deposited by the Mammoth Hot Springs of Yellowstone National Park, 
some of which is nearly pure carbonate of lime and snowy white in 
color. Travertine occurs in great abundance at Tivoli, in Italy, from 
whence it was quarried in building ancient Eome. The exterior 
of the Amphitheatrum Flavium, or Colosseum, the largest theater the 
world has ever known, was of this stone, as was also the more modern 
structure of St. Peter's, in the same city.* The Latin name of the stone 
was lapis Tiburtinus, of which the word "travertine" is supposed to be 
a corruption. 

So far as is known the beds of this country are of limited extent and, 
with one or two exceptions, unfit for any kind of structural purpose. 
The i)early white and red " onyx" marble from San Luis Obispo and 
Suisun City, Cal., are properly travertine ; so are also the celebrated 
"Mexican onyx" and so-called "Oriental alabaster" from Egypt. 

Stalactite and stalagmite are the names given to the deposits of lime- 
stone on the roofs and floors of caves. Such are often beautifully crys- 
talline and colored by metallic oxides, giving rise to beautiful marbles, 
which are incorrectly called onyx, as are also the travertines, from which 
they difler only in method of deposition. 

* Hull, Building and Ornamental Stones, pp. 279, 281. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONKS. 



373 



LIMESTONES COMPOSED LARGELY OF ORGANIC REMAINS. 

Fossiliferous limestones. — Many limestones are made up wholly or in 
part of tbe fossil remains of marine animals, as is shown in the accom- 
l)anying' figure, which is drawn from a magnified section of a limestone 
of the Cincinnati group from near Hami'lton, Ohio. 




In some cases the remains are retained nearly perfect; again the 
entire fossil may have been replaced by crystalline calcite. In other 
instances stones are found which are made up only of casts of shells, 
the original shell material having decayed and disappeared, as in the 
Eocene limestone from North Carolina. Many of the most beautiful 
marbles belong to the group of fossil limestones, as, for instance, the 
red and white variegated Tennessee marbles. Crinoulal limestones are 
made up of fossil crinoidal fragments. 

Shell limestones or shell sand-rocks as they are called by some author- 
ities, are made up of shells usually much broken, though sometimes 
;dmost entire. The well-known coquina from Saint Augustine, Fla., is 
a good ill ustratioii of this variety. Coral roelc is of the same nature, 
'.■xcepting that it is composed of fragments of corals. ChalJc is a fine 
white limestone composed mainly of the minute shells of foraminifera. 

MAGNESIAN LIMESTONES; ALSO CALLED DOLOMITIC LIMESTONES. 

Under this head are included those limestones which contain 10 per 
cent, and upwards of carbonate of magnesia. They may be finely or 
coarsely crystalline; light, porous, or compact; fossiliferous or non- 



374 RErORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 18SG. 

fossiliferous ; in sliort, may show all tlie variations common to ordinary 
limestones, from which they can usually be distinguished only by chem- 
ical tests. j\Iany marbles are magnesian, as will be noticed by reference 
to the tables. When the carbonate of magnesia in a limestone rises as 
high as 45.65 per cent, the rock is no longer called magnesian lime- 
stone, but — 

DOLOMITE. * 

This in its typical form is a crystalline granular aggregate of the 
mineral dolomite, and is usually whitish or yellowish in color. It can 
in its typical form be distinguished from limestone by its increased 
hardness (3.5-4.5) and specific gravity (2.8-2.95). It is also less sol- 
uble, being scarcely at all acted on by dilute hydrochloric acid. Dol- 
omite shows all the peculiarities pertaining to limestones, both in color 
and texture, and a chemical analysis is often required to distinguish 
between them. The i)ure white marble from Cockeysvillo, Md., is a 
dolomite, but by the eye alone can not be distinguished from the white 
cr^ stalline limestones (marbles) of Vermont. The red-mottled marbles 
of Malletts Bay, Vt., are also dolomites, as are the white marbles of 
Lee, Mass., and Pleasantville, N. Y. 

In composition there is no essential difference between a limestone or 
dolomite and what is popularly called a marble, but for convenience sake 
the subject will be here treated in two parts, the first to include those 
of this class of rocks as are put upon the market as marbles, and the 
second the rocks of the same composition but unfit for finer grades of 
building and ornamental Avork and known popularly as sim[)ly lime- 
stones. 

(3) LIMESTONES AND DOLOMITES. MARBLES. 

Under the head of marbles then are here included all those rocks con 
sistino- essentially of carbonate of lime (limestone) or carbonate of lime 
and magnesia (magnesian limestone and dolomite) that are susceptible 
of receiving a good polish and are suitable for ornamental work. 

Alahama.—BQdfi of marble of great beauty are stated to occur along 
the Cahawba Eiver in Sliclby County of this State. The colors enumer- 
ated are gray with red veins, red and yellow, buff with fossils, white 
crystalline, clouded with red and black. A black variety veined with 
white occurs on the road from Pralls Ferry to Montevallo and on Six 
Mile Creek. Other good beds are stated to occur on the Iluntsville 
road about 19 miles from Tuscaloosa and at Jonesborough, the latter 
rock being compact and of a red and white color ; the same strata oc- 
curs at Village Springs. On Big Sandy Creek good marbles occur simi- 
lar to those on the Cahawba. t None of the above are actively quarried, 
and the writer has had the opportunity of examining but a single 

* So called after tbo"Frencli geolof^ist, Dolomien. 
tGeol. of Alabama, First Bien. Rep., 1840, p. 45. 



1>UILDING AND OKNAMKNTAL STONES. 375 

specimen; that a small block of line and even texture, pure white color 
and excellent quality, said to be from uear Talladega. 

Arkansas. — Black and variously colored marbles mottled with white 
fossil shells aud erinoids are stated by Owen* to occur in Independ 
ence, Vau Bureu, Searcy, Carroll, and Marion Counties. The author 
has seen none of the material and has no more definite information on 
the subject than that given above. 

California. — Owing to the violent geological agencies that, have been 
in operation since the formation of the marble deposits in tljis State, 
the stones found are said to be so broken and shattered in nearly every 
case that it is impossible to obtain pieces of large size free from craci<s 
and flaws.t Near Indian Diggings, in Eldorado Couuty, there occurs a 
fine-grained white, blue-veined marble that closely resembles the Italian 
'' bardiglio,'' from the Miseglia quarries, but that the grouudmass is 
lighter in color. It has been nsed only for grave-stones and to but a 
slight extent at that. In Kern County are deposits of marbles of vari- 
ous shades, but all so broken and shattered as to be very diilicult to 
work. Near Colfax, in Placer County, arc also beds of a <lark blue- 
gray mottled magnesian limestone that takes a good polish and might 
be utilized as marble. Other deposits occur in Los Angeles, Monterey, 
Nevada, and Plumas Counties, but none of tliem are at present worked. 
The most beautiful of all the California marbles is the massive arago- 
nite, or so-called " onyx," from San Luis Obisi)o. This stone, which is, 
as I understand, a trav^ertine, is identical in composition and structure 
with the celebrated Oriental alabaster (wrongly so-called) from Plad 
Recam, near the ravine of Oned Abdallah. In color it is pearly white, 
audit is made up of fine, wavy parallel bauds like the lines of growth 
upon the trunk of a tree. This stone is now being quite extensively 
introduced for small stands and orna.mental work, which are often of 
exquisite beauty. No other travertiiu's that can compare with this are 
at present quarried in the United States, though a beautiful variety is 
found in extensive deposits at Tecali, State of Puebla, Mexico. 

Another travertine marble occurs in very limited amounts near the 
town of Suisuu, Solano (bounty. The quarry lies in alow hill near the 
town, and has been quite extensively worked, but no large pieces of 
even texture arc obtainable, which is of course a drawback to its exten- 
sive use. I 

Si»('cimens of this stone received at the National JMusenm are of a 
dull red or amber-yellow color, resinous luster and somewhat porous. 
A far morebeautifulston(^,but which also occurs in very limited amounts, 
is found near the falls of the Sacramento ]iiver in Siskiyou County. 
This is also aragonite and is of a beautiftd emerald-green color. The 
color is however so delicate that pieces of considerable thickness (an 

* G<!ol. of Arkansas, First Aumiiil lioporf. 

t Rep. Tentli Ceusiis, p. 279, 

tRep. State Miueraloyist ofCal., 1884, p. 73. 



376 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

inch or more) must be used in order to appear to advantage. Tliestolie 
is found, as I am informed by Mr. J. S. Diller, of the U. S. Geological 
Survey, in a narrow seam in tbe gneissoid rocks of the region, and there 
is very little- probability of its ever being obtainable in pieces of more 
than a foot or so in length. 

Prof, H. G. Hanks, in a paper recently read before the San Francisco 
Microscopical Society, describes, under the name of "Inyo" marble, a 
IHire white crystalline dolomite occurring in the White and other mount- 
ains of the Inyo range in this State. It is regarded by him as an ex- 
cellent stone, and one promising of future usefulness. Besides this he 
mentions a yellow brecciated marble found at Tehachipi, in Kern County, 
and a black marble found near Colfax. The author has seen none of 
these stones. 

Colorado. — No marbles are as yet quarried in this State, but the Mu- 
seum collections show a small piece of a black white-veined breccia from 
Pitkin that miglit rival the imported "Portoro" from the Monte d'Arma 
quarries in Italy, if occurring in sufficient abundance. Concerning the 
extent and character of the formation the author knows nothing. In tbe 
marble yards of Denver the author was shown during the summer of 1880 
a fine chocolate-colored stone, somewhat resembling the more uniform 
colors of Tennessee marble, which was stated to have been brought 
from near Fort Collins, in Laramie County, where it occurred in great 
quantities; also a fair grade of wbite blue-veined marble from Gunni- 
son County. A beautiful breccia marble is stated* to occur in abun- 
dance a few miles north of Boulder City. 

Connecticut. — In the northern part of Litchfield County, near the 
Massachusetts line, in the town of Canaan, East Canaan, and Falls 
Village, there occur massive beds of a coarsely crystalline white dolo 
mite, which have in years past furnished valuable building marbles, 
though recently they have been but little worked. The stone is said 
to weather well and to be obtainable in large blocks eminently suited 
for building, but like the Lee dolomite it frequently contains crystals 
of white tremolite, which weather out on exposure. It is therefore not 
so well suited for finely finished or monumental work. The State-House 
at Hartford is the most important structure yet made from this material. 

As already noted (ante, p. 288), it was at Marble Dale, in the town of 
Milford, in this State that marble quarrying was first systematically 
undertaken in this country, and at one time (1830) not less than fifteen 
quarries were in active operation in the vicinity. So far as can be 
learned not a single one of these is now being worked. 

J)elatvare. — ISTo marbles are at present quarried in tliis State, but a 
coarse white dolomite is found near Hockessin, New Castle County. 
This, so far as can be judged from the single specimen examined, might 
be used for general building, though not well suited for ornamental 
work. 



Bien. Kep. State Geol. of Colo., 1880, p.'33. 



lUTtLDiNa And ornamental stonem. 377 

Georgia.— An iiiipoi'taiit belt of marble is said to extend tbrougli tbe 
counties of Cherokee, Pickens, Gilmer, and Fannin iu the northern part 
of this State, the 'material varying in color from pure white through 
blue and variegated varieties, souje of which arc remarkably beautiful. 
Variegated marbles also occur in the counties of Polk, Floyd, Whitfield, 
Catoosa, Chattooga, Gordon, Murray, Barton, and Walker; chocolate- 
red varieties similar to the marbles of Tennessee arc said to occur in 
abundance in Whitfield County, the bed in Ked Clay Valley extending 
in uninterrupted continuity for 10 miles, and varying from one-fourth to 
one-half a mile in width.* Of the beds above mentioned those in Pickens 
County are at present the most important and the only ones that have 
been worked to any extent, quarrying having quite recently been com- 
menced here by the Perseverance and Georgia Marble Companies. Spec- 
imens of these marbles forwarded to the National Museum show them 
to be of uniform texture, but coarse, much coarser than the Vermont 
marble, which in other respects they much resemble. They are soft, 
work readily, and acquire an excellent surface and polish. In color they 
vary from snow white and pink to black and white mottled. The pink 
variety is unique as well as beautiful, and there is at present nothing 
like it produced in other parts of the country, though in color it closely 
resembles the pink marble from Cherokee and Macon Counties, N. C, to 
be noticed later. It is, however, coarser. 

The ready working qualities of these stones, the fact that owing to the 
mildness of the climate the works can be in operation at all seasons of 
tlie year, together with the remoteness of regions where similar marbles 
are produced, all point to a rapid development of an extensive quarrying 
industry in this part of the country. 

Joica. — The calcareous rocks of Iowa are, as a rule, non-crystalline, 
dull in color, and with few qualities that render them desiral)le for 
ornamental purposes. But few of them are pure limestone, but nearly 
all contain more or less magnesia, iron, or clayey matter ; very many of 
them being true dolomites. 

Near Charles City, in Floyd County, on the banks of Cedar E,i ver, are 
extensive quarries in the Devonian (Hamilton) beds of magnesian lime- 
stones, certain strata of which furnish a coral marble at once unique 
and beautiful. The prevailing color of the stone is light drab, but the 
abundant fossils vary from yellowish to deep mahogany brown. These 
last, which belong to the class of corals called Stomatophora, are very 
abundant and of all sizes up to 18 inches in diameter. As seen on a 
polished surface imbedded in the fine, drab, noncrystalline paste of the 
groundmass, they jiresent an appearance totally unlike anything quar- 
ried elsewhere in America — an appearance at once grotesque and won- 
derfully beautiful. The stone admits of a high polish, and would seem 
excellently adat)ted for all manner of interior decorations if obtainable 
in blocks sufficiently uniform in texture. A small amount of argilla- 

* Commonwealth of Georgia, p. 135. 



378 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

oeous matter and scattering particles of amorphous pyrite, which are 
occasionally visible, render its adaptability to outdoor work decidedly 
doubtful. The stone is known commercially as "Madrepore marble." 
A. polished slab 2 by 4 feet is in the collections of the National Museum. 

The light yellowish, bufi", or brown sub-Carboniferous magnesian lime- 
stone, quarried near Le Grand in Marshall County, also contains mass- 
ive layers beautifully veined with iron oxide, and which are suitable 
for ornamental i)urposes, though it is not considered suitable for monu- 
ments and other work subject to continuous exposure. I have not seen 
samples of this material, though it is well spoken of by White.* It 
is popularly known as "Iowa marble." The only other stone which, so 
Far as I am aware, has ever been utilized for ornamental purposes 
is the so-called "Iowa City," or "Bird's-eye marble." This is nothing 
more than fossil coral "(AcervulariaDavidsoni) imbedded in the common 
Devonian limestone and often perfectly consolidated by carbonate o^ 
lime so that it maj' be polished like ordinary marble. When so polished 
its api^earance is very beautiful, for the whole internal structure of the 
coral is as well shown as it is in living specimens, and yet it is hard 
and compact as real marble." The stone would be valuable could it bo 
obtained in blocks of large size. Unfortunately it occurs in pieces of 
but a few pounds' weight;! it is used therefore only for paper-weights, 
and small ornaments of various kinds. 

Maryland. — The principal marble quarries of this State are located 
near Cockeysville and Texas, some IG miles north of Baltimore, on the 
Northern Central Itailroad. Here there occurs a small and isolated area 
of Lower Silurian (?) dolomite of medium texture and pure white color 
that has been very extensively used for general building purposes in 
Baltimore and Washington and the neighboring towns, and to a less 
extent in Philadelphia. In the quarries the stone lies in large horizon- 
tal masses, and blocks 28 by 10 by 3 feet have been quarried entire. This 
stone was used in the construction of Christ Church in Baltimore, the 
Washington Monument, and the columns and heavy platforms of the 
Capitol extensions at Washington, D. C. 

Near Union Bridge, in Frederick County, there occurs a fine-grained 
and compact white magnesian limestone, but which has not been quar- 
ried to any extent. 

The only true conglomerate or breccia marble that has ever been util- 
ized to any extent in the United States is found near Point of Eocks, 
Frederick County, in this State. The rock, which belongs geologically 
to the Triassic formations, is composed of rounded and angular fragments 
of all sizes, up to several inches in diameter, of quartz and magnesian 
limestone imbedded in a fine gray calcareous groundmass. This com- 
position renders the proper dressing of the stone a matter of some diffi- 
culty, since the hard quartz pebble break away from the softer parts in 
which they lie, leaving numerous cavities to be tilled with colored wax 
» Geol. of Iowa, vol. 2, p. :5i:{. t White, op. cit., p. ^16. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. ?,7^J 

or sliellac. It should therefore never be worked with hammer and chisel, 
but on!}' with saw and grinding material, and no attempt made at other 
than ]>lain surfaces. The stone was used for the ])illars in the old 
Hall of Eepresentatives in the Capitol at Washington, and a polished 
slab, 34: inches long by 20 inches wide, may be seen in the National 
Museum. The pebbles forming the stone are of so varied shades that to 
state its exact color is a matter of dithculty. Eed, white, and slate-gray 
are perhaps the prevailing tints. On account of its locality this stone 
has been popularly called " Potomac " marble, or sometimes " calico"' 
marble, in reference to its structure and spotted appearance. The for- 
mation from whence it is derived is said to commence near the mouth 
of the Monocacy Kiver and to extend along the Potomac to Point of 
Rocks, and along the valley on the eastern side of the Catoctin Mount- 
ain to within 2 miles of Frederick. The Curator is informed, moreover, 
that the same formation occurs in Virginia, near Lecsburgh, and that 
here the quartzose pebbles are almost entirely lacking, thereby render- 
ing the stone much less difficult to work. 

Massachtisetts. — Crystalline limestones and dolomites of such a char- 
acter as to assume the name of marble are now or have been in times 
l)ast quarried in various towns of lierkshirc County, in this 8tate. The 
stones are all white or some shade of gray color, medium (ino-grained in 
texture, and arc better adapted for general building than for any form 
of ornamental work. 

Tiu^ quarries at Lee were oi>ened in 1852, and the stone has been useil 
in the Capitol extension at Washington and the new city buildings in 
Philadeli)hia5 but little of it has been used for monuments. In the 
quarries the stone lies very massive, and it is stated cubes 20 feet in 
diameter could be obtained if necessary. The Sheffield quarries were 
opened about 1S3S. The rock here is massive, with but little jointing. 
Natural blocks 10 feet square and 3 feet in thickness can Ixi obtained. 
The Alford stone is used mostly for monumental work and a])])ears very 
durable. Much of the marble from these localities contains small crys- 
tals of white tremolito which weather out on exposure, leaving the rock 
with a longh pitted surface. This is very noticeable in the exterior 
walls of the Capitol building at Washington, already noted. 

Missouri, — We have seen but few true marbles from this State, though 
colored marbles of fine quality equaling the vaiiegate<l varieties of 
Tennessee are re])orted by Professor Prondhead as occuiring in Iron, 
Madison, and Cape Girardeau Counties. The Iron County stone is re- 
ported as light drab in color, with buft' veius. The outcroi) occupies an 
(exposure of several hundred feet of a low blutf ou j\Ia]l)le Creek near 
the east line adjoining Madison County. Tlie Madison County nuirble 
occurs near Fredericktown, and is described as the best-a])pearing 
marble in the State both in regard to color and texture, the (iolors bting 
red, peach-blossom, and greenish, beautifully blended. The ston(i is 
represented as very durable, but liable to tarnish on a [)olished surface 



380 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

whfli exposed to the weatlier. The Cape Girardeau stone is repre- 
sented as of a variety of colors — purple, yellow, red, pink, gray, and 
greenish all being enumerated; the supply is unlimited. None of these 
marbles are at i>resent systematically worked, owing to lack of capital 
and distance fi^om market. Professor Broadhead further states that few 
of the marble beds of southeastern Missouri are thick enough to be eco- 
nomically worked, as there would be too large a portion of waste ma- 
terial. 

No pure white crystalline marbles are as yet known to occur within 
the State limits. Other stones capable of receiving a polish and suit- 
able for marble are stated to occur in the counties of Saint Louis, Saint 
Charles, Warren, Montgomery, Ealls, Calloway, Lincoln, Cooper, Pet- 
tis, Cass, Jackson, Livingston, and Clay. 

Montana Territory. — This Territory as yet quarries no marble or other 
stone of importance. There were exhibited, however, at the Centennial, 
in Philadelphia, 187G, and since then in the National Museum at Wash- 
ington, two samples from Lewis and Clarke County that are worthy of 
note, since they form the nearest approach to the imported Italian black 
and gold marble from the Spezzia quarries of any at i)resent found in 
America. The rock is very close and compact, of a dark blue-gray color, 
and traversed by irregular wavy bands of varying width of a dull 
chrome-yellow color. So far as observed the stone is far inferior in 
point of beauty to its Italian prototype, and apparently would prove 
more difficult to work. 

New YorJc. — The belts of Archaean dolomite which lie to the north of 
New York City and cross the State in a northeasterly direction furnish 
a very fair quality of white and gray marbles that have at various 
times been quite extensively utilized. At present the quarries at Tuck- 
ahoe and Pleasantville, in Westchester County, furnish marble of good 
quality but of rather coarse texture. That from Pleasantville is par- 
ticularly remarkable in this respect, being made up of large snow-white 
crystals, often an inch or more in length, whence it derives its popular 
name of snowflake marble. On account of its coarseness it is not well 
adapted for carved work or for use in long columns. The Tuckahoe 
stone is not quite so coarse in texture and has been more extensively 
employed for building purposes. St. Patrick's Cathedral, on Fifth ave- 
nue, New York City, is of this stone. At Sing Sing and Dover Plains 
are other quarries of rather coarse white dolomitic marble, but which 
are not extensively worked. 

A very coarsely crystalline light-gray magnesian limestone of Arch- 
aean age occurs at Gouverneur, in Lewis County. Although too coarse 
for carved work it answers well for massive structures, and, as it ac- 
quires a good surface and polish, is used to some extent for ornamental 
work. It is believed to be durable, since gravestones in the vicinity 
which have been set upwards of seventj' years still present clean and 
uniform surfaces, and are free from lichens and discolorations of any 
kind. 



I5UILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 381 

Two excellent varietii^s ol" colored maibles occur iit IMattslmrgU and 
Cbazy, in Clinton County, in this State, and wliicli are couiinercially 
known as " Lepanto"* and French graj'. The first consists of a close, 
line-grained gray groundniass "with pink and white fossil remains, wliich 
are evidently crinoidal. The second is more uniformly gray and bears 
larger fossils. It is an excellent stone and, with perhaps the exception 
of the Tennessee maibles, has been nsed more extensively for mantels, 
table tops, tiling, and general interior decorative work than any other 
of our marbles. 

At Clens Falls, on the Hudson River, occurs an extensive deposit of 
•hirk blue-black magnesian limestone, certain strata of which furnish the 
finest varieties of black niarble at present quarried in this country. The 
stone is very fine grained and compact, and, when polished, of a deep, 
lustrous black color, thongh the uniformity of the surface is sometimes 
broken by the presence of a small white fossil. A two-foot cube of this 
stone is in the Museum collections. The finest quality of this marble 
occurs in a single stratum some 12 feet in thickness. The poorer quali- 
ties are burned for lime, of which they furnish nniterial of exceptional 
purity. Black nuirble is also quarried to some extent at Willsborough, 
in Essex County. At Port Henry, in this same county, there is quarried 
a green and white speckled marble, composed of an intimate mixture of 
serpentine, calcite, and dolomite that has been used for interior deco- 
rative work. This stone has been noticed more fully under the head 
of serpentine. 

At Lockport there is extensively quarried a soft gray crinoidal lime- 
stone in which the fossils are frequently of a i)ink or bluish opalescent 
color. It is nsed to some extent for mantels and other ornamental pur- 
l)Oses.t 

In the town of Warwick, in Orange County, there is found a beautiful, 
coarsely crystalline marble of a carmine-red color, sometimes slightly 
mottled or veined with white. But little of it has been used and the 
supply is reported as small. 

North Carolina. — Alihough no quarries of nnirble are at the present 
time worked to any extent in this State, there occur within its limits 
nuBierous deposits of most excellent material that only recpiire enter- 
l)rise and capital to bring to a ready market. One of the most impor- 
tant of these is near Bed Marble Gap, in Macon County. The rock is 
a beautiful bright flesh pink, sometimes blotched or striped with blue 
and yellow. The texture is fine and even, and it acquires an excellent 
surface and polish. The stone is stated by Professor Kerr to occur in 
the side of the mountain in cliffs 150 feet or more in height, and blocks 
of almost any size can be obtained. It is quite different from any- 

* The Lepanto marble is (igured oa PI. xxxii of the census report, where it is 
wrongly set down as from Isle La Motto, Vermont. 

t J. S. Newberry in report on building and ornamental stones, Vol. lu Inter. Ex. 
Reports, p. 158, 



382 EEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

tiling uow ill tlie market, juul would doubtless find ;i ready sale if 
once introduced. Other marbles of white or blue-^iiiy color occur in 
Murphy, and Valley Town, Cherokee County ; Warren Springs, Madi- 
son County, aud near Marion, in McDowell County. Lack of trans- 
portation facilities at present is a serious drawback to the introduction 
of any of these into our principal markets. We have also seen small 
pieces of very compact deep blue-black crystalline limestone, taking a 
high polish and suitable for the finest grades of ornamental work, from 
near iNantehala, Swain County, in this State. Portions of the stone are 
traversed by a coarse network of pure white calcite veins that greatly 
added to its beauty. 

remisylvania. — The belt of Lower Silurian limestone that extends from 
Sadsbury and Bart TowiishiiJS, in Lancaster County, in a general east- 
erly direction through Chester County, and through the western half 
of Montgomery County, includes within its area the only quarries oH 
merchantable marble at present worked within the State limits. Ac- 
cording to Professor Pogers* this belt forms the bed of a narrow valley 
some 58 miles in total length, extending from near Abington, in Mont- 
gomery County, to the source of Big Beaver Creek, in Lancaster County. 
The lirevailing colors of the stone throughout the larger portion of this 
area are yellowish or bluish, and it is, as a consequence, suitable only for 
making quicklime or for ordinary rough building purposes. On the 
southern side of the valley, however, between Brandywine and Wissa- 
hickon Creeks, the stone has become highly metamorphosed and con- 
verted into a crystalline granular marble, white or some shade of blue in 
color, though often variously veined or mottled. All the quarries as yet 
opened are situated in Montgomery County, on the steeply upturned or 
overturned edges of the outcrops within half a mile of the southern 
edge of the formation between Marble Hall and the Chester County 
line. 

It is stated that quarries were first opened here about the time of 
the Pevolutionary war, and that up to 1810 this stone was the favorite 
and almost only material used in the better class of stone buildings in 
and about Philadelphia. At about the latter date increased facilities 
for transportation brought the better varieties of eastern marbles and 
other stones into competition with it and its use has as a consequence 
considerably diminished. Among the imjiortant builtlings constructed 
of the stone during its popularity were the United States customhouse 
and mint, the Naval Asylum, and Girard College, while the seemingly 
endless rows of red brick houses with the white marble steps, door 
and window trimmings are even now as characteristic of Philadelphia as 
are the brown-stone fronts of New York City. 

The sarcophagi for General and Martha Washington, at Mount Ver- 
non, are also of this material. While the Montgomery County stone 

* Eep. of First Geol. Surv. of Penua., Vol. I, p. 211. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 383 

has sliowu itself to be very durable, in point of beauty ifc falls far short 
of the marbles from the more Eastern States, and hence its use for any 
Ibrin of ornamental work has almost entirely ceased. There were, how- 
ever, ou exhibition at the Philadelphia Exposition of 187G (and since 
then transferred to the National Museum) samples of this limestone 
from along the Lebanon Branch of the Philadelphia and lieading liail- 
road, some of which gave promise of great utility. I would mention 
especially two samples from Myerstown and Mill Lane. These are very 
fine-grained and compact, of a drab or bluish color on a polished surface, 
and traversed by wavy and very irregularly anastomosing, nearly black 
lines. They seem in every way admirably adapted for decorative work, 
though I am not aware that they have as yet been at all used for this 
purpose. Newberry states* that a fine variety of black marble occurs 
in or near Williamsport, Lycoming County. I have never seen the 
stone and know nothing further regarding it. A black limestone that 
takes a fine i)olish and appears well suited for interior work is stated 
also to occur near the east end of Mosquito Valley, in the same county. 
For exterior work it is stated to be unsuited, as it splinters up btidly on 
exposure. 

Tennessee. — The valley of East Tennessee is underlaid by limestone of 
Lower Silurian age that furnishes some of the finest and most beautiful 
grades of colored marbles at present quarried in the United States. 

The history of the quarrying industry in this part of the State, as 
given by Dr. Safford,t is substantially as follows : In April, 1838, the 
Kogersville Marble Company was formed by gentlemen in and near 
liogersville, Hawkins County, for the purpose of sawing marble and 
establishing a marble factory in the vicinity. The com[)auy operated 
to a limited extent for several years, erecting a mill and selling several 
thousand dollars' worth of material annually, most of which was used 
within the State limits. In 1844 the company sold out to a Mr. Eice, 
who shortly after sent a block of the light mottled, strawberry variety 
to the Washington Monument; another block was subsequently sent, 
in accordance with an act of the State legislature. These blocks at- 
tracted the attentionof the building committee of the National Capitol, 
who finally decided on the adoption of the material for the interior 
decorative work in the extensions of that building. As a consequence, 
what was known as the Government quarry was opened, at a point about 
9 miles southwest of Kogersville, where the Holston River intersects 
the marble range. The rock here was in large part massive and the 
bed several hundred feet in width. Many thousand feet were taken out, 
being shipped by river and rail to Charleston or Savannah, and thence 
by water to Washington. Public attention having thus been drawn to 
the beauty of these stones, there has arisen a constantly increasing de- 
mand for them, to supply which other quarries have been opened, and 



" Rep, of Judges, p. 138,139. t Geology of Tennessee. 



384 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

MOW "Tennessee inarble" is one of the widest known and most generally 
nsed of our ornamental stones. 

At the present time the most extensive quarries are situated in Knox 
and Hawkins Counties. The prevailing colors found here are chocolate 
red and white, often coarsely variegated and fossiliferous; though finely 
and evenly crystalline varieties of a beautiful pink or " strawberry " 
color, with scarcely a trace of fossil remains, also occur. All of them 
cut to a sharp edge and acquire a beautiful and lasting polish not ex- 
celled and rarely equaled by any foreign or domestic marbles. Of for- 
eign marbles, so far as the writer is aware, they have no exact counter- 
part, but perhaps resemble the "Rosso de Levanto"from Spezia, or 
the Persian "fiorto," more closely than any other that can be men- 
tioned. 

Besides the localities above mentioned, colored marbles occur in the 
following counties in this part of the State : Hancock, Grainger, Jeffer- 
son, Roane, Blount, Monroe, McMinu, and Bradley ; some also occur in 
Meigs, Anderson, Union, and Campbell Counties. The Hawkins County 
marble is part of a comi)aratively short belt of Trenton and Nashville 
rocks lying west of Rogersville. It is some IG or 17 miles long, and 
from 50 to 300 feet in thickness. The supply is therefore practically 
unlimited and inexhaustible. The best variety of the stone is used only 
for ornamental work, owing to its high price, being valued at from $2 
to $3 per cubic foot delivered at the nearest railway station. 

The Knox County quarries are mostly situated within a few miles of 
the city of Knoxville. According to Dr. Safford* the entire thickness 
of the marble bed here is some 300 feet, the different layers of which 
vary from chocolate red and white variegated varieties through grayish 
white, pinkish, and more rarely greenish colors. The most esteemed 
variety has when polished a brownish red color, with white spots and 
clouds, due to fossil corals and criuoids. The grayish white variety, 
which is the nearest approach to a truly white marble of any now 
found in the State, is greatly esteemed for tombstones, monuments, til- 
ing, etc., and is said to be very durable, tombstones which have been 
exposed for upward of thirty years showing no signs of disintegration 
or wear. Both the Hawkins County and Knox County stones are very 
strong and heavy, weighing about 180 pounds per cubic foot, which is 
some 14 pounds heavier than granite. Quite similar variegated marbles 
are said to occur in many of the counties of the Cumberland table-land, 
as in Franklin County, on the Elk River ; at the Oil Sprijigs, on Leipor's 
Creek, in Maury County. Some of the marbles of this latter jdace 
have a grayish groundmass, with fleecy clouds of red and green. t 

A beautiful olive-green fossiliferous marble is also found in the elev- 
enth district of Davidson County, though the extent of the deposit is 
not known by the writer. Near Calhoun, in McMinn County, just south 

* Op. cit., pages 23G, 237. 

t Tennessee and its Agricultural and Minert^l Wealtlij by J. B. Killebrew, page 149, 



BUILJ)ING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 385 

of the Cbilliowee Mouutain, occur breccia marbles of exceptional beauty, 
of i)ink and olive-green colors. One quite unique stone from this local- 
ity is composed of a grayish-ground mass, with large rounded and angu- 
lar fragments of a lemon-yellow color. These same marbles also occur 
in Greene, Cocke, Sevier, and all the counties of the Unaka range, but 
they are not much worked, on account of the hardness of the included 
fraguients.* 

IJove-colored marbles are stated by the same authority to occur a few 
miles south of Manchester, Coffee County, and in Wilson and Davidson 
Counties. Dark limestones, almost black when polished, and often 
traversed by veins of calcite, forming a good black marble, are not un- 
common, occurring in the vicinity of Jonesborough, Washington County, 
Greeneville and Newport, Cocke County, on tlie Pigeons, in Sevier 
County, and also in McMinu and Polk Counties. They are at present 
but little used. 

Colored marbk's are also said to occurt in the Western Tennessee 
Valley, which, though somewhat inferior in point of beauty to those of 
the East Valley, are still valuable stones. Perry, Decatur, Wayne, and 
J iardin Counties are mentioned as offering the best facilities. On Shoal 
Creek, in Lawrence County, are said to be beds of fawn-colored or 
l)ro\vnish-red marbles, some 40 feet in thickness and extending on both 
sides of the creek for a distance of 15 miles. The stone is often varie- 
gated by Heecy clouds of green or red green and white colors. Owing 
to lack of transportation facilities it is not now in the market. In Wil- 
son and Davidson Counties other beds of bluish or dove-colored marble 
occur, and in liutherford County is a bed of pale-yellow marble with 
.serpentine veins of red and black dots. The extent of the deposit is 
not known, and at present the stone is seen only in the forui of small 
objects for paper-weights and curiosities. 

TcniH. — The resources of this State are as yet but little known. 
There have been received at the ISJational Museum several samples of 
compact, light-colored cretaceous limestones, from the vicinity ot Austin, 
Travis County, though few of them are of such ({uality as to be used 
as marbles. There was on exhibition at the I'few Orleans Exposition 
in 1884-85 a marble hre-place and mantel of Austin marble that was 
worthy of more 1 haii passing notice. The stone was coiii[)act, very light 
drab in color, and interspeivsed with large fossil sln-lls and transparent 
calcite crystal. This comi)osition would reud(;r some care necessary in 
cutting, but the final result would seem to justify the outlay. The uiarbk's 
received from P.urnet and vicinity present a. variety of colors, some ot 
which are very pleasing. They range from blue-gray and distinctly crys- 
talline to very fine and compact forms, designated as " mahogany-red," 
" red and white,"" purple variegated," etc. The " mahogany-red" is dull 
in color, and tiaversed by a net-work of lighter lines. It is too hard and 
brittle to work econoniically. The niost promising variety is the purple 

* Geoloj^y oCTc,iiiK!8.seL', p. 2il. t Miu. Koaourccs of Tcuucsacc. 

D, Mis. 170, pt. 2 L'5 



38G KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

varie^^ated. This presents an extremely compact base of a grayish, 
or liyht hiveuder-tint, which is traversed by tine, irreguhir lines of a red 
and pur])le color. The stone acqnires an excellent surface and polish, 
but is so hard as to work with great difdculty. 

Utah. — A yellowish white crystalline limestouo, that can scarcely be 
called a marble, was received at the Museum from Payson, in this Terri- 
tory, and a compact nearly black stone, interspersed with numerous 
white fossil shells, from the Sau Pete Valley. Neither stone can lay 
any claim to beauty, though possibly the last mentioned might be made 
to do as marble under certain circumstances. 

Vermont. — Since this is the leading marble-producing State of the 
Union a brief description of the chief geological features of the marble 
formations may not be out of place here. According to Professor 
Braiuard* this formation extends along the western borders of the 
States of Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Vermont, between the Green 
Mountain elevation, which extends from the Canada line nearly to Long 
Island Sound, and the intermittent Taconic Mountains, which extend 
south of Lake Champlain, and in places admit the marble veins within 
the border of New York. Of these immense formations, which are from 
1,000 to 2,000 feet in thickness, the lower portion, known to geologists 
as the calciferous (300 to 400 feet in thickness), is for the most part 
siliceous, partaking of the nature of the sandrock that underlies it. 
The upper portion, known as the Trenton (500 to 000 feet in thickness), 
is impure from the presence of clayey matter, partaking of the nature of 
the slate formation that overlies it. Only certain layers of the middle 
l)ortions seem to have been fitted by their original constitution for the 
production of marble. 

These strata in iiutland and Addison Counties appear in two parallel 
lines about 2 miles apart, stretching from the north line of Middlebury 
to the south line of Kutland, and are from 100 to 200 feet in thickness. 
The limits of the formation may be best understood by reference to 
the accompanying map (Plate vii), redrawn from Professor Brainard's 
report.t 

Professor Hitchcock | conveniently divides the marbles of this State 
into four groups or classes: (1) the common white and bluish or Eolian 
marble (so called from its occurring extensively on Mount Eolus) ; (2) 
the Winooski ; (3) the variegated of Plymouth, and (4) the dark, ahnost 
black, of Isle La Motte. Of these the Eolian is most abundant by far, 
and is most extensively quarried. In texture the stone is fine-grained 
and often saccharoidal, though less so than the Italian marbles. In 
color it varies from pure snowy white through all shades of bluish, and 
sometimes greenish, often beautifully mottled and veined, to nearly 
black, the bluish and black varieties being as a rule the finest and most 
durable. 

* The MaiLilo liordor oli Wosteiu New Eiiji,l;uul, p. 1). 
t By i)onni.s8iou of tlio Middlebiii-y Historical Society. 
i vii'oloi^y of V^'i-inout, Vol. II. j);igo 752. 



Report of National Museum, 1886. — Merrill. 



Plate VII 



73 "TT 



'den ' 



HAllcmi 



Mahji' 



^I'l 



Wt^eJc 



H 






<M/ 



n^^'iB 






f.0i 



^0- 



I' f'^-tv 






'^^ 



^^^^. 



Us 



^^4J 



-^4 



^ 



-^> 



<dale7 






ri^^Ji^t 



tDc'hsei- 



'6i^ 




Marble Region of Western New England. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



387 



TLe Ktouo occurs in beds iisniilly but ii few leet in thickness, which 
vary considerably in color, so tliat several grades, Ironi pure white 
through greenisli, bluish, and almost black, may be taken from the 
same quarry.* As a rule the best marbles in the State occur where the 
beds or strata, stand at high angles, as at ^Vest liutland. The quarries 
themselves at this village lie along the western base of a low range of 
hills, which, to the ordinary observer, give no sign of the vast wealtli 
of nuiterial coucealed beneath their gray and uninteresting exterior. In 
quarrying, the best beds are selected, and upon their upturned edges 
excavation is commenced, first by blasting, to remove the weathered 
and worthless material, and afterward by channeling, drilling, and wedg- 
ing; no powder being used lest the line massive blocks become shat- 
tered and unfit for use. The quarry thus descends in the form of a 
rectangular pit, with almost peri)endicular, often overhanging, walls, to 
a depth of sometimes more than liOO feet, when the beds are found to 
curve to the eastward and [)ass under the hill, becoming thus more 
nearly horizontal; in following these the ({uariy assumes the appear- 
ance of a vast cavern from whose smoke-blackened, gaping months 
one would little suppose could be drawn the Luge blocks of suow-whito 
material lying in gigantic piles in the near vicinity (see Plate i). Some 
of the <puirries have been partially roofed over to protect them from 
snow and rain, and seem like mines rather than quarries. The scant 
daylight at the bottom is scarce siifticient to guide the quarryman in 
his work. As one peers cautiously over the edge into the black and 
seemingly bottoudess abyss, naught but darkness and ascending smoke 
and steam are visible, while his astonished ears are fdled with such an 
unearthly clamor of quarrying machines, the pufhng of engines, and the 
shouts of laborers, as is comparable with nothing within the range of 
our limited experience. 

The stone taken from the (pusrries is worked up in the cinnpanies' 
shops in the immediate vicinity or shipped in the rough as occasion de- 
mamls. The sup])ly is nscd for monumental, decorative, or statuary 
work and general building. 

Other quarries in which the stone so closely resembles that of Rut- 
land as to need no si)ecial descrii)tion, are situated at I'kist Dorset and 
Dorset, Wallingford, Tittsford, Sutherland Falls, IJrandon, and JMid- 
dlebury. xVt Sutherland Falls the stone is very massive, and large 

"Professor Hitchcock (Ot'oloj;y of Vminoiil, Vol. ii, ]>. 7(14) j;iv<'s ilio Ibllowiiig fig- 
ures relative to the niarblc-bcd.s at one ol" the ^\'(^Mt iLiillaud ([luirries, beginuiiig at 
tlio eastern side or top layer: 



i 



1. Upper bhio layer, 4 feet tliici<. 

2. Upper white layer, 3 Aiet G iiich(!s 

tliick. 

3. Gray limestone layer, 5 feet thick. 

4. White statuary layer, '.i feet thick. 

5. Striped layer, 1 foot 8 inciies thick. 
0, New wliite layer, 4 feet thick. 



7. ^\'e(Iged white! lay(!r, from 8 iuches to 

'i feet () inches thick. 

8. Mnddy layer, 4 feet tliick. 

i). Striped green layer, 4 feet thick. 

10. Cam[)hor-gnni layer, :! feet thick. 

11. Wiiite layer, U feet thick. 
I'i. Blue layer, o feet (! inches. 



388 REPORT ON NATIONxiL MUSEUM, 1886. 

blocks iire tiikeii out for building purposes. Some of tlic most valu- 
able, according to Professor Seely,* are kuowu as the x^lark and liglit 
mournbuj vein varieties. The dark mouruing- vein has a ground of deei) 
blue, while lines, nearly black, ruu through it in a zigzag course, pre- 
senting a beautiful appearance. The light mourning vein has simikir 
veins, but the ground is lighter. The quarries at this place are de- 
scribed by Professor Seely as being in the form of a hollow cube cut 
into a hill with i)erpendicular walls on the north and west rising to a 
height of nearly 100 feet, open to the sky, and with an acre of rock 
forming its horizontal marble floor. Over this floor are running chan- 
neling machines, cutting out long parallel blocks which are afterwards 
cut up into convenient size, lifted from their beds, and taken to the mills 
to be sawn. Some sixty gangs of saws are kept running here day and 
night during the busy season, and not less than five hundred persons, all 
told, are emifloyed in and about the (piarries. The workmen are of many 
nationalities, including English, Scotch, Welsh, Irish, Canadian, and 
Italian. 

As stated by Professor Hitchcock, t the beds of the Eolian variety of 
marble are not restricted to one locality but extend over a large portion 
of western Vermont, the formation in which it occurs extending the entire 
length of the State, usually interstratitied with siliceous and uiagnesian 
limestones. The strata vary in thickness from a few inches to C or 8 
feet, the thickest beds being usually found where the marble is coarse- 
grained and friable. Prom Dorset the beds thin out toward the nortli, 
the more northerly beds, though thinner, usually furnishing the finer 
grained and more compact stone. It is stated J that Pittsfurd has 
the honor of having one of the earliest quarries in the State, if not 
the earliest, Jeremiah Sheldon having worked marble here as early 
as 17*J5. There are three beds or veins of marble running through 
the town, north and south. The most easterly has a breadth of 
some 200 feet, and the stone is of the same character as that at Suthor- 
land Palls or Proctor, as the town is now called. The middle bed 
is separated from the first by about UOO feet of lime rock. The bed 
itself is some 400 feet wide, and the stone varies in color from i)ure 
white to dark blue. The third or west bed which is thought to corre- 
spond to that of West liutland is about half a mile west of the central 
and is about -iOO feet wide. The stone is dark-blue and often beauti- 
fully mottled. Some of the beds here, as at' West Kutland, furnish a 
beautiful snow-white saccharoidal stone suitable for statuary i)uri)oses, 
for which it has been used to a slight extent. The Vermont statuary 
marble, however, differs from its Italian prototype, in being of a dead 
M'hite color and lacking the mellow, waxy luster so characteristic of 
the Italian stone. 

* Oj). cit., p. 41. 

tCieolojijy of Vcrmout, Vol. II, p. 772. 

I The Marble Border of Wcsteru New Eiigliiuil, ji. IG. 



ruijLDiNr; and ounamental stonef?. 



380 



Several outcrops of marble oecur in Middlebury, and whioh have been 
worked for many years past; but in consequence of (Jio thinness of the 
be<ls, their badly-pointed structure, and tlie interstratification of a raafj- 
nesian state that produces numerous " rising seams," it is quite difiicult 
to obtain perfectly sound blocks of large size.* 

The quarries in Dorsi^t an^ situated mostly upon the si<les of Mount 
Eolus, or Dorset ^Mountain, as it is also called, a section of which (after 
Hitchcock) is here given. 




The thickness of the slaty cap rock is estimated by Tlitchcock at 498 
feet, and the various beds of limestojie below at 1,1)70 feet. Although 
but a small portion of this is suita,ble for quarrying, still the supply is 
readily seen to be inexhaustible. The prevailing colors of the stone, as 
at Eutland, are white and bluish, variously mottled and veined. Ac- 
cording to Professor Seclyt the first quarry opened in J)ors.ct was by 
Isaac Underhill, in 1785; the stone being use<l chiefly for fire Jambs, 
chimney-backs, etc. The first marble grave-stones ever furnished here 
were the work of Jonas Stewart, in 171)0. ^ 

The bed of primordial rock known to geologists as the "red sand- 
rock," which occur in the northwestern part of the State, bordering on 
fiake Ohainplain, is, as a rule, a hard, dark-red sandstone, containing 
some 8 or 1) jicr cent, of potash, with about the same amounts of iron 
and lime. The entire formation, which is some 15,000 feet in thickness, 
is, however, by no means uniform in composition, but inctlndes consid- 
(Mabl(», beds of limestone, dolomite, slater, and shale. It is the dolomilic 
layer which furnishes the peculiar redand-white mottled stoiu> po[)U- 
larly known as ^V^inooski marble. According to a writer in the Amer- 
ican Natural ist, I the beds of this marble appear first one or two miles 
north of Burlington an<l extend in a somewhat interrupted seri(\s imrth 
tlirough Saint Albans, and end between that ])lac(^ and Swanton, IMore 
llian thirty years ago a^ cjuarry was o])ened in this rock about miles 
from lUirlington, but owing to the hardness of the stone the enter- 
]>rise ])roved a failure and the quarries were abnudoned. Later quarries 
wei'e opened at Saint Albans, and still more recently were re-opened at 
Burlington, the stone being used largely for lh)oring-tiles, wainscot, 
ings, and general interior decorative work. As a rule the stone is crys- 
talline and very hard, much harder than ordinary marble. Its color is 
" Geology of Vermout, Vol. ii, p. 7(!9. 

t Op. cit, p. :?f;. 

t George TI. PfM-kiiis, Amoricaii Naturalist, F(>l»., IS^l. 



390 KEI'ORT ON NATIONvVL MITSEIJM, 1SS6. 

quite variable, thoiifili some sljade of red mottled with white, usually 
l»redoniiriates. Some varieties are beautifully light pink and white, or 
pink and deep blue gray or greenish. The very common chocolate-red 
and white variety is put upon the market as Lyonaise marble, and is 
used largely for tiling, its natural color being often rendered darker by 
oiling. 

Chemically the stone is a dolomite, though varying widely in com- 
position in samples from different localities. Some samples show a very 
decided brecciated structure, while in others this entirely disappears. 
It is as a rule very hard to work, an<l, as exLibited in the cfipitol at 
Albany, the surface is often disfigured by irregular cavities and flaws 
which are rather unsightly. The color is said to fade ou exposure to 
the weather, and hence the stone is used mostly for interior work. 

An excellent outcrop of this marble occurs on the shore of Mallet's 
Bay, in the town of Colchester. The strata at this point are nearly 
horizontal, and in many places form the banks of the lake. One of the 
best quarries is so situated that a vessel can be brought np alongside 
aiul loaded with blocks with as much ease as they are usually loaded 
upon carts or cars at inland quarries. The stone occurs in beds varying 
in thicknes from 1 to feet, and blocks of almost any size can be ob- 
tained. It is hard to work, but as a consequence is very durable when 
once finished, being not easily scratched or scarred. 

The best develoi^ments of the rock for marble quarrying are at Col- 
chester, sTs already mentioned, Milton, Georgia, Saint Albans, and Swan- 
ton. At the last-named jiJace there also occurs a beautiful gray marble, 
with angular fossil fragments of a white and innk color, identical with 
the "Lepanto " marble of New York. There is also a fine and compact 
dove-colored marble here, admirably adapted for decorative work, but 
the quarries are now abandoned. 

The Plymouth marble, so called, is a quite pure dolomite, an analysis 
by Dr. Hunt resultiiig as follows: 

Per cent. 

Carbonate of liino f>3. 9 

Carbonate of magnesia 44. 7 

Oxyde of iron and ahnuina 1-3 

91). 

The stone occurs in the talcose-schist formation near the center of 
the town of Plymouth, at an elevation of 250 feet above the Plymouth 
pond. Quarries were opened here about 1835, but were soon abandoned, 
as the demand at that time was almost altogether for white marble. The 
beds dip GO^ to the cast, and the quarry walls, which have been exposed 
to the weather for twenty years, seem unaffected. In color the stone is 
blue or bluish-brown, diversified with long stripes and figures of various 
shapes in white. It is fine grained and compact, splitting with equal 
facility in every direction.* 

* Geology of Vermont, Vol. ii, p. 776. 



lUIILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 391 

Tlio Islo La Motte. marble derives its name from Isle La ]\Iotte, in 
Lake Champlain, where it occurs in considerable abundance. It also 
occurs on several other ishmds in this lake iuid upon its banks in many 
places, xlccording to Professor Hitchcock* this was the first marbles 
worked in the State, quarries having been opened prior to the Revolu- 
tionary war. The stone, which is largely used for flooring-tiles, is very 
dark, almost black in color, and highly fossiliferous, having undergone 
less metamorphism than the marble in the interior of the State. So far 
as the author has observed its color and texture are such as to preclude 
its obtaining a high rank for purely decorative purposes, but for floor- 
tiling is much esteemed and very durable. Fossil shells of great beauty 
are not uncommon, and, being snowy white in color, show up in strong 
contrast to the dark paste iu which they are embedded. 

Virfjinia. — The extensive area comprehended under the title of the 
Valley of Virginia embraces " all the portion of the State having for 
its eastern boundary the western slope of the Blue Kidge and its inflected 
continuation, the Poplar Camp and Iron Mountains, and for its western, 
the Little North and a portion of the Big North Mountain, with the 
southern prolongation of the former, Caldwell and Brushy Mountains; 
and near its southwestern termination the line of knobs forming the 
extension of Walker's Mountain." t 

The central portion of the vallej' as thus outlined is underlaid largely 
by limestones of Silurio-Cambrian age, which are in several jilaces, ac- 
cording to the authority above quoted, capable of yielding good mar- 
bles. The special varieties mentioned are : (1) a dun-colored marble 
met with near New Market and Woodstock, and ou the opjiosite side of 
the Massanattep Mountain in Page County : (2) a mottled bluish mar- 
l)le to the west of New Market ; (3) a gray marble occurring some three- 
fourths of a mile in a southeasterly direction from Buchanan, in Bote- 
tourt County; (4) a white marble of exquisite color and fine grain 
about 5 miles from Lexington, in Rockbridge County; (5) a red mar- 
ble occurring only in the Cambrian formations lying among the mount- 
ains in the more southwestern counties; and (G) a shaded marble found 
in Rockingham County. This last is said to be compact, susceptible of 
a beautiful i)olish, and of a yellowish gray and slate color. None of 
the above have as yet received more than a local application. 

At Craigsville, in Augusta County, there occurs a gray, sometimes 
pink-spotted encrinal limestone which acquires a good polish, and 
though in no way remarkable for its beauty is ca])able of extensive a])- 
plication for furniture and interior decoration. The Archican area to 
the eastward of the Valley of Virginia) also in(;ludes sundry areas of 
workable marble. It is stated by R,ogersf that "near the mouth of 
the Tye River (in Nelson County) and the Rockftsh, a true marble is 

"Ojj.ci/., 1). 77(;. 

t Rogers, Gcol. of the Virginias, pp. 'JO.l, 201, 

\ Oj). cit., pp. 81-83. 



392 Report on National mitseum, issg. 

fouiid, of u boautifnl whiteness and of a texture which renders it sus- 
ceptible of a nuo polish as well as beins' readily wrought with the chisel. 
A few miles from Lynchbjirgh, in Campbell County, a good marble is 
likewise found." "The Tye River marble and one or more analogous 
veins" are further stated to "have all the characters of a statunry 
marble of fine quality, and should not some peculiarity, as yet un])er- 
ceived, prevent their application to the purposes of the sculptor, they 
will no doubt be looked upon as very valuable possessions." The writer 
has seen none of the material from this locality. White and pink 
marbles of excellent quality also occur in the vicinity of Goose Creek, 
in Loudoun County. We have seen samples of the white, wRich for 
l)urity of color, fineness of grain, and general excellence, are not ex- 
celled by any marble now quarried In the United States, but the extent 
of the deposit is as yet unknown. 

The stalagmitic deposits upon the floors of the caverns at Luray, in 
Page County, furnish, when cut, occasional fine pieces of the so-called 
onyx marble, but the stone is too easily fractured and too uneven in 
texture to be worked economically, even were the deposits of sufficient 
extent to warrant the opening of quarries. I am informed by Trof. C. 
1j. Goode that it is a common thing to find mantels of stalagmitic 
marble in the dwellings of Virginia. These are, however, always made 
from blocks found loose in the field or in caves near at hand. 

« 
(4) LIMESTONES AND DOLOMITES OTHER THAN MARBLES. 

Alabama. — A dark compact limestone has been received at the jVIu- 
seum from Calera, Slielby County, and a light-colored, finely fossilifer- 
ous one from tJickson, in Colbert County. The last mentioned closely 
reseml)les in general appearance the celebrated limestone from Bedford, 
Ind., to be noticed later. It appears of good quality, and works readily. 

Arlansas. — Oolitic limestone suitable for building, and having the 
ro])utation of being very durable, is stated by Mr. Owen* to occur ne;ir 
Batesville, in Independence County. 

Colorado.— Tha collections show from this State a coarse, reddish 
limestone from Jefferson County, and also a very compact, finely crys- 
talline black stone, traversed by a coarse net-work of very fine white 
lines, from Pitkin in Gunnison County. This last stone takes a polish, 
and might almost be classed as a marble. Neither stone is now quar- 
ried to any extent. 

Florida. — This State at present furnishes scarcely anything in the 
line of building stone, nor is there much demand for any other form of 
building material than wood. On Anastasia Island, about 2 miles from 
Saint Augustine, there was formerly quarried to a considerable extent a 
very coarse and ])orous shell limestone which was used in the construc- 
tion of the old city of Saint Augustine and of Fort Marion, which was 
*Gcol. of Ar£, Vol. i, p. 220. ' 



mTILlMXC! AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. o93 

built about |]io. mi(bllo of tlio oijilitcoiitb coutury. Tho rock is coni- 
[)oso(l simply of shells of ;i bivalve inollusk luoro or less broken and 
ceineuted together by the same material in a more finely divided state. 
Fragments of shells an inch or more in diameter occur. The rock is 
loosely compacted and very porous, but in a mild climate like that of 
Florida is nevertheless very durable. The quarries were opened up- 
wards of two hundred years ago, but the stone is not now extensively 
used, owing in part to the dampness of houses constructed of it, and in 
])art to the cheapness of wood. The rock, wliichis ])oi)ulaily known as 
Coquina (the Spanish word for shell), is of Upper Eocene age. In the 
(piarries the stone lies within a few fo(^t of the surface, and can be cut 
out with an ax, in sizes and shapes to suit. 

The oolitic limestone occurring at Key West has been quarried and 
used in the construction of numerous private and public l)uildings in 
that vicinity. 

Kansm. — The limestones and dolomites of this State are, as a rule, 
of a light color, soft and porous and incapable of receiving a polish 
such as will fit them for any form of ornamental work. Many of them 
are cellular and loosely compacted, being made up in large i>art of a 
small fossil rhizopod about the size of a grain of wheat and known 
under the name o\' fuftid'nia. Such stones are obviously unfitted for 
exposed work in localities subject to great extremes of temperature, 
although they may be very durable in mild or dry climates. Those at 
present quarried are almost without exception of Carboniferous or 
Permian age, and occur oidy in thin beds, varying from a few inclies 
to 8 or 10 feet in thickness. 

Xear Irving there occurs a light-color(Ml, soft, tliin-beddcnl stone, 
which, though not quarried during the census year, has in times ])ast 
been used for building purposes in Atchison and Kansas City. It is 
soft aiul easily quarried ami for ordinary construction requires but 
little dressing. At Frankfort a similar stone o(!Curs which h;is been 
used to some extent for l)uildings, though iUMnci])ally for foundations. 
Som(! of the stone from these localities are of very poor (luality, bciing 
soft and quite cellular througli the breaking away of the small fossils 
above referred to. Atchison, in the same (iounty, has quarries of a 
darker, more compact stone, whicii are worke<l for h^cal use. 

In the vicinity of Topeka there are quarried light-colored, comjiact, 
finely fossiliferous dolomites and limestones which work very readily, 
and which have been used in the construction of about thirty-five 
common l)uildings in that city, besides a church, school, and opera 
houses in I^mporia. They have also been used in Parsons, in Labette 
County, and neighboring towns in Missouri, 

Near Lane, in Franklin County, gray and bulV limestones are (piarried 
and used quite extensively in Ottawa and Garnctt, in the same Stat<', 
though some have been shipped to Chicago, The bulf variety is some- 
times oolitic, resembling to some extent the Bedford (Indiana) st(uie. 



oy4 . REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

The texture is firm and compact, and it acquires a good surface and 
polish. The i;ray variety is coarser, and often somewliat celhdar, owing- 
to the imperfect filling of the spaces between the fossil i^articles of 
which it is composed. A section of the quarry shows the gray stone 
to occur in a bed about 4 feet in thickness, and the bufl" oolitic about G 
feet in thickness, the layers of w hich vary from 18 to 24 inches each. 

Near Marion Center, in Marion County, there is quarried a light-drab 
cellular raagnesian limestone of Permian age, that has been used in the 
construction of the asylum for the blind and insane at Wyandotte and 
T()])eka, in this State. Similar stones are quarried at Cottonwood, in 
Chase County. The stratum of quarry rock here is some G feet in 
thickness and blocks of any desired size and of thickness not ex- 
ceeding 2i feet can be obtained. The principal markets for these stones 
are Kansas City, Mo. ; Lincoln and Omaha, Nebr. ; Pueblo and Denver, 
Colo., and Atchison, Topeka, and Leavenworth, Kans. 

In the vicinity of Fort Scott are some half a dozen irregularly worked 
quarries which furnish stone for building foundations and pavements 
in the near vicinity. The stone is dark colored, fine grained, and semi- 
ciystalline, and is said to stand the wear of from ten to fifteen years' 
exposure very well. It turns to a brownish color on long exposure and is 
strong enough for ordinary structures. The stone quarried at Winlield 
is a light-colored, fine-grained cellular rock and so soft as to be quarried 
by means of plug and feathers only, the holes being first bored b}' 
means of a common auger without point. It is a handsome stone and 
has a good reputation for durability. It is used mostly in this State, 
though some is shii)ped to Kansas City, Mo.* 

Many of the towns in Butler County produce fine-grained, light-col 
ored limestones suitable for rough building in the immediate vicinity, 
but not at all suitable for ornamental work. 

Illhiois. — No siliceous crystalline rocks of any kind are to l)e foun<l 
within the State limits, almost the entire product being limestone or 
dolomites, with a few quarries of sandstone, which are noticed on p. 448. 

The most notable of the limestones of this State is the finegrained, 
very light-colored Niagara stone, quarried in the vicinity of Lemont and 
Joliet, in Will County. According to Professor Conover,t the Lemont 
quarries lie on both sides of the Illinois and Lake Michigan Canal, and 
the beds of stone are quarried to their lower limits through a variable 
thickness of from 13 to 40 feet. The stone here is uniformly a fine- 
grained, homogeneous, light-drab limestone, occurring in beds from 
to 21, and sometimes oO inclies in thickness. The beds are divided ver- 
tically by seams occurring at intervals of from 12 to 50 feet, and con- 
tinuing witli smooth faces for long distances, and also by a second set 
running nearly at right angles with the first, but only continuous be- 
tween massive joints and at irregular intervals. This structure renders 

*Prof<is.ior BrodlKiad in Keimrf, of Tenth Census, pp. '275-277. 
t Report of Tenth CeusuS; p. 221. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL 8T0NES. 395 

the rock very easily (iiiurricd and obtainable in blocks of almost any 
required dimensions. The stone is soft and easily worked, takin<;- read- 
ily a smooth surface, but no polish. It can be turned on a lathe, and is 
made into balustrades and other forms of ornamental work. It can be 
carved in bas relief, but is not sufficiently tough for high reliefs that are 
to be exposed to the weather. To produce smooth surfaces for flagging, 
etc., the stone is planed by machines somewhat similar to those used in 
planing iron. The stone from the immediate vicinity of Lemont is said 
to contain less iron and to tarnish less readily than that a few miles 
distant at Joliet. 

The stone in the quarry contains much moisture, and during cold 
weather care has to be taken to avoid injury by freezing until the (|uarry 
water has evaporated. This causes a considerable annual expense in 
making: earth protections, except in those few quarries that are so situ- 
ated that they can be Hooded with water during the winter months. 

The quarries extend for nearly 4 miles below Lemont, where a gap oc- 
curs, to just below Lockport, from which point a line of closely-adjoining 
(juarries extend to below Joliet. The finer varieties of the stone do not 
seem well fitted for heavy masonry in damp situations. Fine clay seams 
abound, which arc invisible when the stone is first quarried, and which 
uiuler favorable circumstances do not develop at all, but when exposed 
to heavy pressure or to alternate moisture and dryness, accomi)anied by 
frost, they are soon developed, and often render the stone worthless. 
Even the best varieties of the stone tarnish after a short exposure, es- 
pecially in cities where soft coal is burned. 

The Joliet quarries extend from a point about a mile below Lockport 
to the same distance below Joliet. Two distinct varieties of stone occur. 
That quarried from the lower beds on the riglit bank of the river is 
as a rule rougher, more coarsely textured, and tarnishes more readily 
than that from the higher levels. It is now but little used, except for 
heavy masonry. In the quarries back from the river, on the higher 
levels, the stone is fine grained, nu)re homogeneous, aiul in this respect 
fully equal to the Lemont stones. The beds now worked are from 3 to 
4 feet in thickness, and large l)lo(;ks are obtainable. Most of it seems 
to weather-stain rather more than that from Lemont. The value of the 
stoiui quarried at these two places is iirobably fully equal to that of all 
the other stone quarried in the State.* 

Three large quarries are worked in these same formations at Batavia, 
but as a rule the stone is coarser and more dillicult to work than those 
just described. Other quarries occur at Thornton and Blue Island, 
('ook County, and other i)arts of the State, as noticed in the catalogue 

* ThcHO beds wore ibrmorly (loscribed an cdiiiposcd oi' light butt' stoue, wliile tbe 
(loepcr portions of tlio quarries now Inrnish " l)lii('Htone." Tbo fliffcrence results 
from tbc dififV-niiHio in amount of oxidation of tbo small amonnt of iron disseminated 
througb tbo whole mass, tbe change having rcsnltiul from atmosidieric influences. 
The same change must ultimately take place in all the blucstouo which isbroiiglit to 
the surface. (Geology of Illinois, Vol. iv, p. 220.) 



396 KErOKT ON NATIONAL MTLSRTTM, 188G. 

of the Musp.uni collection. Witbiii the city limits of Chicaj^o there is 
quarried from this same formation a coarser somewhat cellular stone, 
that from its unique character perhaps merits a special description. 
According to Hunt* this stone when i^uro is a nearly white granular 
crystalline dolomite, containing 54.G i^er cent, carbonate of lime. It, 
however, contains so large a portion of bituminous matter, that blocks 
sometimes become quite black on exposure. The color fades somewhat 
in time, bnt the petroleum odor is often perceptible for long distances. 
The stone has been used to some extent for building purposes, as notably 
in the First Presbyterian Church in Chicago. The gummy bituminous 
matter causes the dust from the streets to adhere to exposed surfaces, 
thus giving the buildings a peculiar antique appearance. We are in- 
formed by Mr. Batchen that this pseudo-antique appearance is greatly 
admired by some. The presence of the bitumen is beneficial in at least 
one respect, in that it renders the stone less pervious to moisture, and 
hence less liable to disintegration by freezing. This stone is repre- 
sented by an 18-inch cube in the Museum collections. 

Lower Silurian (Trenton) limestones and doloinities are quite exten- 
sively quarried in Jo Daviess County, and make a handsome and very 
durable building material. Calhoun, Alexandria, and Ogle Counties 
also furnish good material, but which, for lack of space, can not be de- 
scribed here. At various points in Whiteside and Hopkins Counties 
there are outcrops of limestones belonging to the Cincinnati group, a 
part of which will furnish durable building material. The stone needs, 
however, to be selected with the greatest care, since all the beds are not 
of equal quality. 

At Jonesborough, in TJnion County, there occurs a fine, even-grained, 
compact, beautifully oolitic stone that cuts to a sharp even edge, and 
seems admirably adapted for carved work and general building pur- 
poses as well. Specimens in the National Museum are of a lighter color 
than the Bedfoi'd, Ind., oolotic stone and take a better polish. We 
liave had no means of ascertaining its lasting qualites, but it is stated! 
to be liable to injury from frost when exposed in damp places. The 
stone is of the Carboniferous age. Other oolitic stones occur at Rose- 
clair, in Hardin County. They are of a dark bluish-gray color and take 
a good i)olish. 

There are many other localities in the State which furnish excellent 
varieties of building stone. These can not be mentioned here for lack 
of space. Interested parties are therefore referred to the catalogue of 
the Museum collections and to the report of the Tenth Census. 

Indiana. — Few of the limestones at present quarried in the United 
States exceed in reputation and beauty the fine-grained oolitic stone 
of sub-Carboniferous age from the vicinity of Bedford, in this State, 
and popularly known as "Bedford limestones." The rock is of fine and 

* Chemiciil Jiiul Geological Essays, p. 172. 
t Report of Tenth Census, p. 225. 



IJUILDINU AND OKNAMIONTAI. «TUjNE,S. IVJI 

even texture, and is eoinpo.seil of small rounded eoncretionury griiins 
of ubout the size of ii ^^raiu of mustard seed compaetly cen)ented to- 
gether by crystalline lime or calcite. The stone is soft, but tenacious 
(si)ecimeus having' borne a pressure of 12,000 pounds i)er square inch), 
and works readily in every direction. It is therefore a great favorite 
lor carved Avork, and is used more extensively for this pur[)ose than any 
other of our limestones. No better exam[)le of the adaptability of the 
stone for this i)ur[)ose can be given than the elegant mansion of Mr. C 
J. \"anderbilt, on IMlth a\enue, in New York City. Uni'ortunately, as 
is usually the case with light limestones, this stains badly in cities where 
there is a great amount of manufacturing, as is only too well illustrated 
in the case referred to. 

Although the quarries have been worked systematically tor but a few 
years, the stone is already widely known, and is coming into very gen- 
eral use in nearly every city of importance in the country. At the 
])rincipal quarries, which are situated near Uedford, Lawrence County, 
the stone occurs in a solid bed, that has been M'orked to a depth of 40 
feet without reaching the bottoni. 

Stones very similar in general appeaiance, but not always so dis- 
tinctly oolitic and olten containing a considerable percentage of bitu- 
minous nuitter, also occuv and are extensively quarried at Ellettsville, 
in Monroe County. Uther localities not so extensively worked occur in 
Owen, Washington, Crawford, and Harrison Counties. Samples re- 
ceived at the Museum from near Corydon in the last-named county are 
of a beautifully fine and even oolitic structure, very light color, tirm 
and compact. They resenjble the oolitic stone from Princeton, Ky., 
mine closely than any other, but are much more compact. The stone 
is stated to occur in inexhaustible <piaiitities. 

The Washington County deposit at Salem is said to be a very line one, 
there being a solid bed of the oolite 30 feet in thickness, with only about 
5 feet of caj) rock. 

Other limestones or dolomites of excellent (juality, but lacking the 
oolitic structure, occur in niaiiy parts of the State. A compact, line- 
grained drab stone, taking a. very good i)olish and also of subCarbonif- 
erous age, occurs at (ilreencastle, Putnam ville, and Okalla, in I'ntnain 
('ounty, and is quarried for lime and for building ])urj)osesin the vari- 
ous cities and towns in the vicinity. There is quarried at Bedford also 
a tine grained semi-crystalline, dark-gray stone, which is capable of a 
variety of uses. 

Near Silverville, in Lawrence County, there occurs a very fine-grained 
compact stone of a drab color, that acMpiires readily a smooth and even 
surface. An attenipt has l)een made to utilize this for lithograi)hic 
pur])Oses, but, it is stated, with inditferent success. It bears a (;lose re- 
semblance to the darker variety of tlic well-known Bavarian litlio- 
grai>hic stone, but is somewhat harder. 

As will be noticed, nearly all the (iuarries mentioned lie in that poi- 



oD8 KErOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

tiouofthe State south of Iiiditiiia|)olis. But lew quarrk'S of iiii[h)i 
tanee lie to the uorth of this point, and wlieu worked the stone is used 
l)iincipally in the manufacture of quicklime. At Anderson, in Madison 
County, a light-colored, fine-grained stone occurs in beds of from 4 to 
12 inches in thickness, which is used locally for Hanging and general 
trimming purposes. 

loica. — Although this State abounds in liniestones and dolomites to 
the exclusion of abnost all other varieties of building stone, but little 
of the material now quarried is of such a nature as ever to acquire more 
than a local reputation. Though huAing altogetlier more than three 
times the number of quarries found in Illinois, these are mostly small 
alfairs, and the value of the total product is but little more than one- 
half that of the latter State. At the time of the taking of the Tenth 
Census the whole number of quarries in the ^tate was 131, of which lliS 
were of limestones and dolomites, and the remaining 3 of sandstone, 
which are mentioned on i>. 440. 

At the present time the most inq)ortant (juarries are situated in the 
Niagara division of the Upper Silurian formations, in the vicinity of Stone 
City, Jones County; Farley, Dubuque County, and in various portions 
of Jackson, Cedar, Clinton, and Scott Counties. The Jones County 
stone is a verj light-colored, fine-grained and compact bituminous dolo- 
mite. That from Farley is very similar in general appearance, but con- 
tains less bituminous matter. In the small blocks received at the 
JMuseum the stones appear of good quality, but we have had no op- 
portunity^ of learning their weathering qualities. 

A tinely crystalline light colored limestone of sub Carboniferous age is 
quite extensively quarried near Burlington, in Des Moines County. 
According to Professor McGee* this stone, which is i)ractically identi- 
cal with that of Keokuk, in Lee County, is used chietly for common 
masonry, and only occasionally for dressed work. The upper beds are 
"nearly white in color, tine, compact, homogeneous, and hard, with a 
choncoidal or splintery fracture, like the so called lithographic lime- 
stone of nearly the same geological age. This stone has been used to 
some extent for ornamental purposes, but contains too many incipient 
fractures, and is too liable to unexpected disruption to be of special 
value." 

Near Le Graiul and Montour, in Tama County, there occurs a magne- 
sian limestone of the same age as that just described, which is fine 
grained, compact, and generally buff or whitish in color. The coarser 
portions are extensively used for heavy masonry, while the finer grades, 
which are often beautifully veined with iron oxides, are used for orna- 
mental work under the name of " Iowa marbles." Some of the stone 
from this locality is oolitic. Similar stones are extensively quarried at 
Iowa Falls and at Humboldt and Dakota, in Humboldt County. Lime- 
* Ki'port of Teuth Census, p. 201. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 399 

stones iuul dolomites belonging to tbe Saint Lonis epoch of the Hub- 
carbonilei'ous age are (luite extensively quarried in various parts of 
liee, Des Moines, Henr}', Washington, Van Buren, Jelferson, Keokuk, 
Wapello, Manhaska, Marion, Story, Hamiltoc, and Webster Counties. 
That from near Farmington, Van Buren County, varies from light buff 
to nearly white in color, is line grained, and has been quarried for litho- 
graphic purposes. It is, however, no longer used, having been found 
to contain too many dry seams often cemente*d by crystalline carbonate 
of lime. At Chequest the limestone takes a fair polish and is known 
as "Chequest marble." 

In the Devonian limestones near Iowa City and Iloberts Ferry there 
frequently occur masses of fossil coral [Acervularia duvi(lso7ii) wliich, 
wiien cut and polished, form beautiful ornaments and paper-weights, 
though of small size. They are known popularly as bird's eye and tish- 
e^f^ii; marbles. 

One of the most uni<iue marbles in this country is found in the De- 
vonian beds near Cbarles City. The stone, which is known commer- 
cially as "Madrepore marble," consists of a fine grained and compact 
nou crystalline groundmass of a yellowish-brown or di-ab color, in 
which are embedded a great variety of fossil forms and sha[)es, includ- 
ing large strometophera sometimes a foot or lifteen inches in diameter. 
The stone polishes well and the fossil forms show up in a manner pecul- 
iarly beautiful and unique. This marble is represented in the Museum 
collections by a large polished slab (catalogue No. 3S4G5) as well as by 
the smaller specimens in the systematic series. 

Kcntucli/. — Although the building stones of this State are entirely 
unknown in our principal markets and but few of them have more than 
a strictly local reputation it by no means follows that there is any lack 
of uuiterial or that it is at all inferior in quality. While it is true that no 
marbles or granites of importance are found, yet there abound limestones 
of the linest quality and in inexhaustible quantities. Tlie oolitic lime- 
stones of this State are without sui)eriors, if indeed they have equals. 
Through the energy of Prof. J. li. Proctor the Museum has received a 
lull series of these stones, and we are able to speak of their qualities 
from personal observation. In Todd, Grayson, Meade, Simpson, Chris- 
tian, and Caldwell Counties oolitic stones occur of very light, almost 
white, color and excellent tiuality. The varieties from Litchtield and 
Princeton are especially wiirthy of mention. The oolitic character is 
very pronounced in these stones, and while in some cases the produc- 
tion of a perfect surface is impossible, owing to the breaking away of 
these minute rounded grains, still in the better qualities the sharp edges 
and smooth surfaces are as readily acquired as on the celebrated Bed- 
ford (1 11(1.) or other stones of this character. These are sui)erior to the 
Bedford stone, moreover, in their clear and uniform colors, never being 
blotched with oil, as is the Bedford stone. Professor Proctor informs us 
that the stone is quarried with ease, is easily wrought, stands 



400 liEI'OKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1S«(). 

lire well, iiud is considered one of the most reliable stoues iu the 
State. 

Coini)act tine-grained limestones of a dark drab color, taking a smooth 
surface, but not suited for marble, are found in the towns of Franklin, 
Simpson County; Lebanon, Marion County; liussellville, Logan County, 
and others. A part of the Franklin County stone is fine grained and 
suitable for lithograi)hic purposes, though inferior to the imported 
Bavarian stone. Very li'ght colored compact limestones are found also 
in Simpson, Logan, and Franklin Counties, but we have no information 
regarding their availability or the extent to which they are quarried. 

Maine. — Limestone is "an abundant and common rock in this State, 
especially in the southeastern part, in the counties of Knox and Lin- 
coln, where it is very exteusively burnt into quicklime. So far as I am 
aware none of the stone is utilized for building, as its colors — blue and 
blue-black, veined with white — are poorly adapted for such purposes. 
No stone suitable for marble is yet known to occur in the State, though 
Hitchcock* expresses the opinion that such may yet be found in " the 
belt of Uelderberg limestone, running from Matagamou (east branch 
Penobscot) lliver northeasterly," 

Many samples of so-called white marbles have been taken from the 
limestone formations about Kockland, in Knox County, but, so far as 
observed by the present writer, they are all too coarsely crystalline or 
too distinctly graiuilar in structure to be of value, 

Miclmjan. — Limestone or dolomites of a character suitable for build- 
ing pur[)oses are at present but little quarried iu this State, the entire 
value of the output during the census year being but about $2(1,000, 
A fine-grained fossiliferous dolomite of a drab color is worked at Sib- 
ley's Station, in Wayne County, and a very light-colored granular rock, 
of similar composition, near Eaisinville, in Monroe County. Near Al- 
pena light-colored limestones are quarried which are hard, compact, and 
said to be durable. They are not obtainable anywhere in large quan- 
tities nor iu blocks of large size, but there are numerous small openings 
sulficient to supply the local demand. Other localities where stone can 
be obtained are at Trenton, near Detroit, and upon Macon Creek, both 
in Monroe County. The stone is apt to contain dry seams and requires 
care in selecting. These are all of Devonkin age, 

Minnesota. — The Lower Silurian limestones and dolomites of tliis 
State, which are at present the only one,'#quarried, are, as shown by 
the Museum collection, nearly all of a light buff, drab^ or blue color, 
fine-grained and compact, though in some cases cellular and semi- 
crystalline, according to Professor Winchell.t 

The stone appears in the bluffs of the Mississippi River and St, Croix 
Valley, and is ({uarried at all points where (except Lake City) thia-e is 
any demand between Stillwater and Winoua, along the Mississippi Val- 

* Socoiid Atiiuuil licp. Gool. of Maiue, 1852, p. 42H. 
t Kcp. Tenth Ccusus, J). 21'Jj iiutl Gool. of Miuu, vol. 



BUILDING AND OKNAMENTAL 8TUNES. 401 

ley on the Minnesota side, and also at several plaees lartber west, as 
at Caledonia, iu Houston County, Lanesborougb and Kusliford, in Fill- 
more Count}', and at points in Winona County. 

At Stillwater the rock is a silicious dolomite of a L\iilit bull' color. 
In the ledge, which is about 45 feet thick, it occurs in alternate bands 
of compact and cellular rock varying from 3 to C feet in thickness. 
Tlie coarser variety is most durable and is used in lieavy masonry, as 
bridges and foundations. The finer variety is used for house trimming, 
ashlar work, and tombstones. 

At Saint Paul the rock is a fine light-bluish semi-crystalline magne- 
si:in limestone. It is usually quite regularly stratified, and occurs in 
beds from 3 to 24 inches in thickness, with joints from 10 to 30 feet 
apart. Blocks 10 by 5 by 2 feet can be obtained if desired. It is used 
only locally. At Minneapolis the rock is quite similar, though some- 
times slightly fossiliferous or mottled with argillaceous spots. It was 
formerly used almost exclusively in Minneapolis, but is now being 
gradually replaced by stone from the neighboring States. 

In speaking of these stones Professor Winchell says :* 

"In the use of the Trenton limestone quarried at Saint Paul and 
Minneapolis regard should be had constantly to its laminated structure. 
The beds quarried now are as they were originally deposited, and as 
cut for use embrace in every block many layers of from one-half to two 
inches iu thickness. These consist of alternating clayey and calcareous 
portions, the latter constituting the hard and enduring part of the stone. 
These layers are not always distinct and continuous over large surfaces, 
but they blend or shade into each other every few inches. Yet in process 
of time, under natural weathering, they get separated so as to fall apart, 
the clayey matter disintegrating first and causing the calcareous struct- 
uie which sustains the whole to break up into small sheets or fragments. 
Hence this stone should never be placed on edge, but in the same 
position it occupied in the quarry. It should never be allowed to oc- 
cui)y projecting or exposed parts of a building. More especially if it 
be on edge and in a projecting cornice or capital it is the source of 
weakness to the structure, as well as of danger to all passers, from the 
drop[)ing of sheets or fragments as the weather, by wet or frost, sepa- 
rates them from each other. Its color is also against its being put in 
the exposed and ornamental parts of a structure. * * * ry^Y^Q color 
of the Trenton makes it very suitable for foundations and for the 
ranges below the water-table, but even there it should be well bedded 
in mortar and protected by the water-table in order to keep out the 
wat(ir." 

At Eed Wing, in Goodhue County, the stone is quarried only for 
local building and for burning into quicklime. Blocks as large as can 
conveniently be handled can be obtained. At Frontenac, in the same 
county, the stone is of a buff or gray color, medium fine, and quite 

* Preliminary Rep. on Building Stone, etc., 1889, p. 33. 

n. Mis. 170, pt. 2 -2G 



402 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

cellular. This rock is cousidered one of the best in the State, aud is 
used for all varieties of building purposes, as well as for bases and 
touibstoues. Blocks 11 by 7 by 5^ feet and weighing 18 tons have 
been taken out, which is about as large as the quarries will furnish. 
It is said to work with comparative ease, and to withstand the weather 
well. Although having been in use longer than any other stone in the 
State, it has not as yet shown any change whatever from atmospheric 
influences. Its powers of resistance to pressure vary from 5,000 to 7,000 
pounds per square inch. 

At Kasota and Mendota, in Le Seucr County, the dolomite is of a 
buff or rusty pink color, of homogeneous texture, and very strong and 
durable. It withstands a i^ressure of 10,000 pounds per square inch 
without crushing. Blocks 10 by 11 feet by 1 foot in thickness can be 
obtained. It is quite generally used throughout the State, the pink 
variety being most admired and bringing the liighest price. 

At Mankato, in Blue Earth County, the rock is also a dolomite, but!' in 
color, fine, compact, and semi-crystalline, sometimes cellular. Blocks 
120 by 10 by G feet can be obtained from the quarries. 

At Winona the dolomite is quarried for general building purposes, 
tlagging, and burning into lime. It is of a buff color, usually line and 
uniform in texture, though sometimes containing cherty lumps, and 
porous. Blocks of any size that can be handled nuiy be taken from the 
quarries. 

Missouri. — Limestones and dolomites of a nature unfitted for marbles, • 
but of good quality for general building purposes, occur in great 
abundance in Saint Louis, Cole, Cooper, Pettis, and Jackson Counties in 
this State. At present, owing to the ready accessibility of a good market, 
the Saint Louis stone is the most extensively quarried of any of these 
mentioned. The stone, which is of Carboniferous age, is finegrained 
aud compact, and of a drab color. It is represented as strong and dura- 
ble and well adapted for the manufacture of lime. At present it is used 
largely for foundations. A very fine-gp:'ained and compact limestone of 
a dark drab color occurs near Saverton, in Ealls County, which has 
been used to some extent for lithographic purposes. Stones from other 
localities are mostly compact, and of light or dull red. A very light 
encrinital stone is quarried in the vicinity of Hamilton and Bear Creek, 
in Marion County. 

Nchraslca. — Eine-grained, light-colored, compact, or sometimes finel;y 
fossiliferous and oolitic limestones, apparently of good quality, have 
been received at the Museum from near Koca, in this State. x\lso a 
light-colored fusulina-bearing stone, closely resembling that of Augusta, 
Kans., from Glen Eock, Nemaha County, and a fine-grained, soft, light- 
colored fossiliferous stone from La Platte, in Sarpy County. The writer 
possesses no information regarding the extent to which they have been 
worked, if at all. 

iVew Yorli. — With but few exceptions the limestones of this State con- 



BUILDING AND OUNAaMEWTAL STONES. 403 

tain a .sullicieiit pLMceiita^c of iiia,uiit'sia to uicrit the iiani'j iiiaj^iiesiaii 
liiia-stoiR', tlioii.i;li scarcely eiioiiyli lo couslitutc a true doloiniLe. Many 
ol'tlie rockis belonging' to this groiii) are marbles, au(iha\e already beeu 
described. 

At (Jreenport, Colambia County, a stratum of Lower Silurian lime- 
stone upward of GO or 70 leet in thickness is extensively worked for 
ornamental and building- purposes. The quarry i>ropcr is said to cover 
an area of 10 acres, and a face 30 feet liigh and half a mile in length has 
been opened. The stone is of medium texture, scnii-cry stall ine, of a 
water-blue or gray color. The quarries at Glens Falls, on both sides of 
the Uudson liiver, furnish beside the black marble already referred to a 
great amount of dark-colored limestone which is used for tiling, etc., as 
well as burning into lime. At Willsborough and Crown Point, in Essex 
County, there are also extensive quarries* of blue-black limestone of 
good quality. In various towns in JMontgomery County a gray or blue- 
gray semi-crystalline limestone, is worked for building- material. The 
stone is said to be strong- and durable, though care need to be used in 
its selection. At the Indian reservation in Onondaga County a gray, 
c<»mi)act, semicrystalline limestone, said to possess great strength and 
durability, was formerly extensixely (juarried, but the work has of late 
fallen oif somewhat, owing to lack of trans[)ortation facilities. A gray, 
crinoidal stone that takes a fair polish is also found at Onondaga, in 
the same county. 

At Lockport, in Niagara County, a fossil-bearing calcareous dolomite 
has been (piarried for many years for general purposes of construction in 
New York and liochester. The stone does not take a good surface and 
consequently does not polish readily, but some portions make quite 
showy mantels, owing to the presence of red crinoidal remains. Accord- 
ing to Professor Julien * this stone as used in New York City has not 
proved durable. The fault, however, he regards in part to the manner 
in which the stone is used, about 40 percent, of the blocks being set on 
edge. 

North Carolina. — Limestones and dolomites of good quality for build- 
ing purposes occur in abundance in this State, but are not extensively 
quarried for lack of a market or transportation facilities. Near New 
IJerne, Craven County, there occurs a very coarse cellular shell stone 
of Eocene age that has been used lor underpinnings and fences, but it 
is said not to weather well. Material of the same nature, but much finer 
in lextuie and more com[)act, occurs at Itocky Point, in Pender County, 
and wliicli has been used in the construction of breakwaters and other 
harbor improvements at Wilmington, in this State. A coarse, dull red 
dolomiteoceurs at Warm Springs, in Madison County, and also light blue- 
gray varieties, but neither are worked, as there is little demand for the 
material. 



* Kcport of Tcuth Census, Vol. x, ^i. ^GD. 



404 KEPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188ti. 

Ohio. — The limestones and dolomites of tbis State are almost alto- 
gether of a dull, uninteresting color, and though in many cases durable 
and strong are entirely uutit for any sort of iine building and orna- 
mental work. They are therefore used chiefly for the rough work of 
foundations, street paving, and flagging, and to a very large extent for 
making quicklime. In many instances they have been useel locally 
for building purposes, but their qualities are not such as to cause them 
to be sought from a distance. 

At Point Marblehead, in the northern i)art of the State, dull, light- 
colored compact dolomites of Carboniferous age have been quarried for 
making lime and for building jnirposes for the past fifty years. Many 
buildi»ugs in the vicinity have been constructed from it, and it has also 
been largely used by the Government for light-houses aud other struct- 
ures along the lake front. Of late years its use for building has very 
considerably diminished. Near Sandusky, in Erie County, the same 
formations have beeu extensivly worked, not less than 12 acres in 
the vicinity having been quarried over to a depth of 8 feet. The 
stone is of a dull, bluish-gray color, aud is used for building, flagging, 
and making lime ; about one hundred and eighty houses in the city 
have beeu constructed from it. Near Columbus, in Franklin County, 
the Devonian limestones are extensively quarried, aud the i)roduct has 
in a few instances been used for building })Ui'poses. By far the greater 
l>art of the product is, however, used as a flux for lion and for nuiking 
quicklime. A dolomite from the same formations is quarried for rough 
building and lime burning at and near Marion, in INIarion County. 

In Allen, Miami, Clarke, Greene, Montgomery, Preble, and several 
other counties the dolomites and limestones of Upper Silurian age are 
extensively worked, but so far as the author can learn but a small part 
of the quarry product is utilized for building. At Springfield the stone 
is buff in color and somewhat porous, though it is said to be strong and 
durable. 

Near Greenfield, Ross County, and Lexington, Highland County, 
there are extensive quarries of a bituminous dolomite, Avhich is largely 
used in Cincinnati for flagging, steps, and in the manufacture of lime. 
Specimens received at the National Museum from the places show the 
s'oiie to vary from dark grayish distinctly laminated to line, comi)act, 
and homogeneous of a yellowish or buft' color. The bull" stone can be 
cut to a sharp edge, and acquires a good surface, but takes only a dull 
polish. So far as the author has observed this is one of the finest aj)- 
pearing and best working stones in the State. 

The Montgomery County stone is a magnesian limestone, and it is 
said to have obtained a good reputation. It is not now used as njuch 
as formerly, however. The stone quarried in the other localities men- 
tioned present so little diversity of character as to need no special 
descrijition. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 4()5 

Penmylranla. — The. Lower Silurian forniations in Montgomery, Lan- 
caster, and Chester Counties, which fiirnisli the supply of ruarble already 
referred to,* furnish also lari^e (juantities of gray or bluish-gray stone of 
the same eomposition, but, owing to its color and texture, unsuited for 
any form of ornamental worlc. Tt is, however, extensively quarried for 
general building, for foun<lations and bridge abutments. Besides, in 
Montgomery Count}', limestone is ([uarrie<l for local use in Easton, 
Tuckerton, and Reading-, Berks County, and in Annville, Lebanon 
County; also near ILxrrisburg, ])au[)h in County; Leaman Place, Lan- 
caster County; York, York County; Bridgeport, Shiremanstown, and 
('arlisle, Cumberland County. The stone from the Lancaster quarries 
breaks with an irregular fracture; is " plucky," as the stone cutters say, 
and is hence hard to work. It is, however, very durable, exposure for 
many years having no other apparent ettect than that of a slight fading 
of the coh)r. 

The York stone is veiy fine grained, compact, and of a deep blue black 
color. It takes a high polish, and but for its uneven texture might 
make a line marble, in Wrightsville, in this same county, a white or 
bluish crystalline granular stone is (piarried, wliich takes a fair polish, 
and which might perliai>s be used for marble, 

xVt Chambersburg', and in other parts of Franklin County the stone 
is a calcareous dolomite, dark in color, fiiu^ grained, and very durable; 
buildings which have stood for a century showing only a slight fading. 
It is used locally for rough building", lime burning, and I'ertiliy.ers. 

At various localities near South Mountain, a linn^stone breccia sim- 
ilar to that of Frederick, Md., occurs, and which perhaps can be made 
to yield good stone for ornamental work. 

TennesscG. — A comi)act, finely fossiliferous, light jiink spotted lime- 
stone occurs in the vicinity of Nashville, in this State, and which is 
quite extensively quarried for use in the near vicinity. The stone is 
said to bo of rather poor quality, but is used on ac<;ount of its a<;(;cssi- 
biiity. Near Chattanooga, in Hamilton County, a magnesian liriu'stoiui 
of bluish-black color is quarried for local use. The (piarry is said to be 
very favorably located, and the stone cheap and very durable. 

Light pink, finely fossiliferous, semicrystalline limestones occur at 
(>)lumbia, Maury County; light-colored, similar-textured stones at 
(barter's ('reek ; light, almost white, at Morristown ; red, compact fossil- 
iferous at SpringvilU; ; and compact drab and almost black dolomites 
near Charlotte Pike. A fine grained, compact, and light-colored oolitic 
stone occurs at Sherwood Station, wliicli cuts to a sharp, smooth edge 
and seems a most excellent stone. So far as the author is awarcnone 
of these are quarried for anything more than local use. 

l^crtis. — Compact, tine-grained Cretaceous (?) limestones of excellent 
quality occur near San Saba in this State. A portion of these are 
* * See p. 382. 



406 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188(). 

entirely crystalline and acquire an excellent surface and polish, sucli as 
fits them for interior decorative work. 

Light-colored, fine-grained limestones also occur in the vicinity of 
Austin, in Travis County; and dark mottled varieties near Burnet, in 
Burnet County. 

Wisconsin. — The more thickly settled portions of this State are, accord- 
ing to Professor Conover,* underlain by Silurian rocks so disposed that 
there are but few regions where rock fit for ordinary purposes of construc- 
tion can not be obtained in quantities sufficient to supply the local de- 
mand. Previous to 1880, however, with a single exce[)tion, no quarries 
had been worked for export beyond the State, and but fe\^ that had 
been worked for other than local markets. As a whole the stone be- 
longing to this class in the State are characterized b^^ their light colors, 
compact textures, and hardness. Many of them will take a good polish 
and might be used for ornamental work, but that the colors are dull and 
uninteresting. Such o(;cur and are(piarried to a considerable extent at 
Byron, Fond du Lac, ami Eden, ir. Fond dti Lac County, but although the 
stoiu^, seems very durable, its hardness is such that it has not been used 
for facings or any kind of oina,mental work, ('oarse drab dolonn"tes are 
quarried for general building at Ledyard and Kaukauna, in Outagamie 
County; at iNeenah and Oshkosh, Winnebago County, and at Duck 
Creek Station, in Brown County. In various parts of Waukesha County 
there occurs a light drab, sometimes almost white, dolomite, which, 
though a hard stone to cut, has been quite extensively used and with very 
good effect for general building. At Eden, Oak Centre, and Sylvester, 
Green County, a similar stone occurs, which also crops out in Calumet 
County. Here it is of a white mottled color, takes a good polish, and 
is locally called marble. 

Near Racine there occur beds of dolomite, varying from coarse, porous, 
and irregularly bedded to a fine, compact, and homogeneous rock, emi- 
nently adapted for fine building material, though not well suited for 
ornamental work. The quarries are ver>' extensively worked. Other 
quarries in the same formation occur at Milwaukee, Cedarburgh, Graf- 
ton, Sheboygan, and Manitowoc. The Milwaukee quarries furnish sev- 
eral grades of building material, and of almost any necessary size. 
These are said to bo remarkable for the great depth of excellent build- 
ing stone which their working has developed. 

Numerous other quarries occur in Rock, Dane, ami La Crosse Coun- 
ties, but which can not be mentioned here for lack of space. 

* Report of Tenth Census, Vol. X. 



BUILDINd AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 407 

E.~TIIE (HIAXITES A^TD GNEISSES. 

(1) COMPOSITION AND OKKJIN. 

By tbe term "granite'' is understood a crystalline granular mixture 
of the minerals quart/, orthoclaso, and plagioclase, which, in varying 
proportions, malce up tlie chief bulk of the rock. Besides these, there is 
lu^'irly always present one or more of the minerals biotite, muscovite, 
or hornl)lende, and more rarely aagitc, chlorite, tourmaline, graphite, and 
lienuitite. By the aid of the microscope may frequently be detected other 
accessory minerals such as apatite, epidote, zircon, magnetite, menac- 
eannite, and microcline. Tliese last, although of scdentilic interest, are of 
little i>ractical importance. 

Microscopic study of properly prepared thin sections of granite have 
shown that there are at least two varieties of feldspar and that they 
are radically different. The one is orthoclase, which is usually the pre- 
dominating constituent, while the other is a triclinic variety, usually 
albite or oligoclase, called for convenience j.t^r((7to(;/^f.s'e when the exact 
variety can not be definitely ascertained. It is easily distinguished 
from the orthoclase by its beautiful banded structure as seen in polar- 
ized light. A third variety, identical in chemical composition with or- 
thoclase, but crystallizing in the triclinic system, is also frequently pres- 
ent. This is microeline. Under the microscope it shows a peculiar 
basket-work structure, due to the nearly rectangular intersection of its 
lamina' produced by twin formation. 

The quartz does not oc(nir in the form of crystals, but rather in that 
of angidar crystalline grains. It appears always fresh an<l glassy, but 
oil microscopic examination is found to contain numerous inclosures, 
such as rutile needles and little prisms of apatite. A most interesting 
fact is the presence of minute cavities within the quartz, usually tilled 
wholly or in part with a liquid, though sometimes empty. This liquid 
is commonly water containing various salts, as the chloride of sodium or 
potassium, which at times separates out in the form of minute crystals, 
('arbonic acid is frequently present, giving rise to a minute bubble like 
that of a spirit-level, and which moves from side to side of its small 
chamber as though endowed with life. So minute are these cavities 
that it has l)een estimated from oiu' to t(Mi thousand millions could be 
contained in a single cubic inch of space.* 

Granites are massive rocks, occurring most frequently associated with 
the older and lower rocks of the earth's crust, sometimes interstratiiied 
with m(;tamorphic rocks or forming the central portion of nu)untain 
chains. They are not in all cases, as was once supposed, the oldest of 

* J 11(1(1 (III Volcauoets, p. ()4. 



408 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, Vm, 

rocks, but occur rroqnoiitly in o.riiptivo niassos or liossos, invndin.j; rocks 
of all ages up to late Mesozoic or Tertiary times.* 

They are very abuudant tlirougliont the Eastern and Northern United 
States and the Kocky Mountain region. 

The average specific gravity of granite is 2.GG, which is equal to a weight 
of IGG;^ pounds per cubic foot, or practically 2 tons per cubic yard. Ac- 
cording to Professor Anstedt granites ordinarily contain about 0.8 per 
cent, of water, and are capable of absorbing some 0.2 per cent. more. 
Tn other words, a cubic yard would in its ordinary state contain 3.5 gal- 
lons of w\ater. The crushing strength of granite is quite variable, but 
usually lies between 15,000 and 20,000 pounds per square inch, as will 
be seen by reference to the tables. The average chemical composition 
is as follows : 

Per cent. 

Silica 72.00 

Alumina If). 07 

Iron j)eroxidc 2.22 

Ma<fnesia T). 00 

Linio 2.00 

Potash 4.12 

Soda..'. 2.9 

LtiNs by ignitioTi 1. 10 

(2) VARIETIES OF GRANITE. 

In classifying granites the varietal distinction is based upon the pre- 
vailing accessory minerals. The more common varieties are muscovile 
granite, biotite granite, muscovite-biotite granite, hornblende granite 
an<l horublende-biotite granite; more rarely occur augite, epidote, 
tourmaline, cordierite, and chlorite granites. The variety without any 
accessory minerals is sometimes called granitell. rrotogine\i> the nanu' 
given to granites like those of Mount Blanc, which have talc or chlorite 
as the characterizing accessory. Pegmatite or graphic granite is a vein 
rock conttwning scarcely any mica, but consisting almost altogether of 
quartz and orthoclase. It owes its peculiar structure to the crystalliza- 
tion of these two ingredients in long jiarallel and imperfect prisms so 
that a cross-section shows peculiar triangular and i)olygonal figures 
comparable to the letters of the ancient Greek or Phtenician alphabets. 

By far the larger i^roportion of the granites <at present quarried in 
the United States have mica, either muscovite or biotite, as the chara(!- 
terizing accessory, and lience can be spoken of as mica granites. The 
amount of mica present is of considerable economic importance. It 
does not polish as easily as do quartz and feldspar, owing to its softness, 

"* Profesisor Whitney considers the eruptive granites of the Sierra Nevada to he 
Jurassic. Zirkel divides the granites described in the reports of the 40th parallel 
survey into three groups: (1) Those of Jurassic age; (2) those of Paleozoic age; and 
(:5) those of Archivau age. The granites of the Eastern United States, on the other 
hand, .are considered by g(>ologists almost without exception as Arelia>an. 

t Hull, Building and Ornamental Stones, p. 80. 



BaiLDlX(i AND OIJNAMF.NTAL STONKfi. 400 

iiiid llio i)i'ese]if'0 of a lar/^c iiinoniit, therefore i(MHlers the roe,l< ilifllcult 
to polisli, and wlieii polished it docs Dot retain its Insler so lon<;- as <h) 
the other minerals, its surface soon bcconiinji- dull by exposure. Its 
presence in large luuouuts is therefore deleterious to stones winch are 
intended for exterior polislied work. The condition in which the mica 
occurs is also an iniportaut factor. A large auiount of it scattered in 
very tine flakes throughout the mass of the rock inliuences its value as 
a polislied stone less than does the presence of large and thick crystals 
scattered through the rock in smaller number. The method of the ar- 
rangement of the mi^a is an important item; if scattered at haphazard, 
and lying in all directions among the quartz and feldspar crystals, the 
rock will work nearly as well in one direction as another. If it is scat- 
tered through the rock in such a way that its laminrs are arranged in 
one definite plane, it imparts a stratitied appearance to the rock, causing 
it to split more readily in the direction of this lamination than across 
it. When this stratified appearance becomes strongly marked thero<',k 
is called a gneiss. Since, then, the distinction between granite and 
gneiss is simply one of structure, and as the two rocks are used to a 
<!()nsideral)le extent for the same; jiurposes, they will be treat<'d of to- 
gether in the following ])ages. 

If hornblende is the characterizing accessory, the rocks are usually 
without distinct lamination, as this mineral commonly exists in a gran- 
ular form. Hornblende is subject to as wide variations of comjiosition 
as is mica, but its white and very light colored varieties do not usually 
occur in our granites. Hornblende cleaves parallel to two planes, which 
make angles of 124° ^vith each other, and in this respect is distinguislied 
from black mica, which has but one cleavage. Its folia are also ine- 
lastic. 

Hornblende takes an easier and more durable polish than mica and its 
presence is preferable on this, account. Pyroxene as a charac.terizing 
accessory in granite is more common than has ordinarily been supi)Osed. 
Indeed all rocks which contain pyroxene abundantly have usually been 
confounded with hornblende granites. The distinction between these 
two minerals is important from an economic stand-[)oint, as hornblende 
[)ossesses a much better cleavage than pyroxene, while the pyroxene is 
much more brittle than the hornblende, and cracks out witli greater 
ease while working. The cracking out of little i)i(^(;es from the black 
iMgredieTitof the Quincy granites has been freciuently noticed, and is 
due to the circumstance that this granite is not the Iiornblendegranite 
it lias usually been supposed to be. Hornblende is very tough, but the 
Quincy granite contains a i)eculiar variety of pyroxene which is so brit- 
tU; that it is dilficult to produce a large surface which does not show 
some little pits, due to the breaking out of a portion of the black 
grains of pyroxene. Although ])yroxene and hornblende may be iden- 
tical in composition, they are frequen'Jy associated together in the same 
i-ock ; a fact which is very evident when thin sections are examined 



410 REPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

with the microscope, tlion^li tlicy arc indistinguishable to the naked 
eye. Those granites which contain hornblende also frequently contain 
mica, but it is noticeable under such circumstances that the mica is 
always the dark variety, and an example of a granite which contains 
both hornblende and muscovite is unknown.* Although epidote is a verv 
common constituent of our granites in the form of microscopic crystals, 
the cases in which it occurs as chief accessory are quite rare. So far as 
observed it is always of a green color, and when present in any quan- 
tity is readily noticeable on this account alone. The pink granite of 
Dedham, Mass., is the most marked example of epidotic granite now 
quarried, though in several other cases, as the biotite-epidote gneiss of 
Lebanon, K. II., the mineral is frequently present in such quantities as 
to appear in greenish blotches on a polished surface. Tourmaline gran- 
ites occur only in veins, and, so ftir as is known to the writer, never in 
sufficient abundance to warrant the opening of quarries to work them 
exclusively. 

In texture the granites vary from extremely fine and homogeneous 
rocks to those in which the individual crystals are several inches in 
length. Porphyritic structure is common, and is produced by the de- 
velopment of larger crystals of orthoclasc in the finer grouudraass of 
quartz and feldspar. The color of granites is dependent largely upon 
the abundance and kind of accessory minerals and the color of the i)re- 
vailing feldspar. Ordinarily the muscovite granites are very light gray 
in color, the biotite and hornblende granites light to dark gray, or 
semetimes almost black oil a polished surface, as is the case with the 
hornblendebiotite granite of Saint George, Me. In the red and pink 
granites the color is due to the red or pink orthoclase. which is the pre- 
vailing constituent. 

(3) USES OF GRANITE. 

Since the earliest times granite has been used by all civilized nations 
for monumental and other purposes where great strength or durability 
was required. But while the enduring properties of the rocks have 
caused them to be eagerly sought, their great hardness and consequent 
poor working qualities have caused them to be used in works of the 
more simple and massive kind, where but little carving and dressing 
were necessary. In past ages the cheapness of life and labor in great 
part counter-balanced these difficulties, and hence are found works of 
most elaborate design executed in this refractory material ; works which 
with the present high valuation set upon labor could never be executed 
but with the aid of greatly-improved machinery and methods of work- 
nianshij). The ancient Egyptians, to whom human life and labor were 
matters of minor importance, have left a profusion of temples, obelisks, 
and pyramids, whoso surfaces are often carved and polished in the finest 
and most delicate manner, although constructed of material so obdurate 



Iliiwcs Litli. of Now llauipsliire. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 411 

iuui uiicliaugcablc that in some cases oven tlio marks of the tool roinaiii 
upon it to the present day. A specimen of red jiianite now in the 
Mnseum, and formerly a portion of one of these obelisks, still shows the 
original carving made npon it upwards of three thousand years ago. 

There is probably no country on the globe in which so large a pro 
portion of its stone buildings are of granitic rock as the United States. 
This fact is due rather to tlu' ready accessibility of the rock in those 
])ortions that were earliest settled than to any very decided preference 
on the part of the builder. Tlie United States (Joveriiment has of late 
sliown a decided preference for granite in the construction of its public 
buildings, and has often had it transported mauy hundreds of miles, at 
a cost that never would have been undertaken by private capitalists. 
One item that tends to increase the cost of our granite, and other stone 
buildings as well, to a seemingly ueedless extent is the fact that 
American tastes seem yet inca])able of appreciating any but smoothly- 
(hcssed or carved stone in a wall. This fact is, it seems to the writer, 
greatly to be regretted, since, with the nvajority of stones, better and 
more majestic eifects (;an be produced by rock-faced and rubble- work 
than in any other manner, and at a much less cost. 

Probably the uiost elaborate granite buildings now in the United 
States arc the State, War, and Navy Department Buildings in Wash- 
ington and the new capitol at Albany, N. Y. 

(4) GRANITES OF THE VAlilOUS STATES AND TERRITORIES. 

California. — It is stated* that the first stone house erected in San 
Francisco was built of stone brought from China, and at the present 
<lay tlie granites most employed are bronglitfrom Scotland and the East- 
eiii United States. However this may be, it is obvious that this condi- 
tion of affairs need not long continue to exist, since granites of good 
(jiiality occur in inexhaustible quantity in the near viciin'ty. As early 
as IiS.I.'j a granite quarry was opened in Sacramento County, and since 
then others have been opened and systematically worked in Penryn 
and Rockliu in Placer County. The Penryn works are some 28 miles 
east from Sacramento on the line of the Central Pacific Railroad. 
Tiie first quarries were opened in 1804 and are now said to cover 
some C8() acres at Penryn an<l Rockliu, t the latter point being some 
or 8 miles distant from the former in a westerly direction. 

Tiie rock varies in color from light to dark gray, one variety, which 
contains both hornblende and biotite, being almost black on a polished 
surface. They are as a rule fine grained, and take a good polish. 
lUocdvs more than 100 feet long, oO feet wide, and 10 feet thick have 
been quarried out and afterwards broken up,| 

The buildings mentioned below have been constracted wholly or in 

'Hiiildini!,- Stone Jind Qiiany IiiduHtry, Ke)>or). Tenth Census, Vol. X, ji. 2. 
t'l'lid K(ud<lin st.oncr in r.atlier i\. ((iiiirt/, diorite tli;in a true granite. 
t Mineral liesoiirccs of Mic Uiiit.'d Stal(v-i, 1SH;{, p. tf);'). 



412 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

part of these granites : Uuited States Mint, new City riall, new Stock 
Exchange, the lieal Estate Associates' buihling, and several ])rivato 
residences, and many monuments ; all in San Francisco. 

A fine-grained very light-gray granite of excellent appearance is 
found on the line of the California Southern Railroad between Los 
Angeles and Cucamouga, and is beginning to be used in Los Angeles. 
In texture it is as fine as the finest Westerly, E. I., or Manchester, Va., 
stone, and of a uniform light gray color. A coarser stone, carrying 
abundant hornblende and black mica, is found also at Sawpit Canon, 
in the same county. It works readily, but contains too much horn- 
blende, and also too many small crystals of sphene, to be of value 
for fine monumental work. 

Colorado. — Granites are at present but little worked in Colorado, al- 
though the State contains great quantities of tliis material. A coarse 
red granite has been quarried to some extent from bowlders at Platte 
Cafion, Jeflerson County, but the rock is poor in color and possesses but 
little tenacity. Fine gray granite of good quality occurs at Georgetown 
and Lawson, in Clear Creek County, and tlierc are inexhaustible quan- 
tities of equally good material all through the mountains, but which 
are not quarried owing to the cost of transportation. A full series of 
them is in the Museum collection. 

Connecticut. — " Extensive quarries of granite and gneiss are located 
at various points in this State, especially near Thomaston and Roxbury, 
in Litcldleld County, on Long Island Sound, Fairfield County, near 
Ansonia, Bradford, and Stony Creek, New Haven County, Haddam, 
Middlesex County, and near Lyme, Man tic, Groton, and Mason's Island, 
New London County. The Connecticut granites and gneisses are usu- 
ally fine-grained and light gray in color, and the appearance is usually 
so characteristic as to distinguished them from other granites of the 
Atlantic States."* 

The most of these stones are, however, quarried only for local use, 
and but few find their way into markets outside of the State. A beauti- 
ful light gray muscovite-biotite granite is quarried at Thomaston and 
Reynolds Bridge, which for evenness of grain and clearness of color 
can not be excelled. The stone from Roxbury is a trifle darker, but 
though of fine and even grain and acquiring a good polish, is used only 
for curbings, foundations, and pavings. The Ansonia rock is a very 
fine-grained muscovite-biotite gneiss, and has been used for general 
building purposes in New Haven and Bridgeport. The Leetes Islaml 
and Stouey Creek rocks are of a pink color, the first meationed being 
sometimes very coarsely porphyritic. A turned column of the Leetes 
Island rock in the Museum shows large pink orthoclase crystals 2 inches 
or more in length embedded in the finer gray groundmass of the rock. 
A beautiful and very coarsely crystalline red granite occurs near Lyme, 
but for some unexplained reason the stone is not in the market. It has 

'Report Tenth Census, Vol. x, p. 127. 



UUILDING AND OICNAMENTAL «ToNE.S. 4K5 

been used to sonic extent in ]Srewi)oit, K. 1., and some of tlie material 
may be seen in the Chaney Menioiial Cliurch at tbis pUiee. Contrary to 
the general rule in red granites, the teldsi)ars of tbis rock are not ojuioue, 
but quite elear and transparent, and in point of beauty the rock far 
excels the celebrated Scotcb granites from Peterhead. The Haddani, 
Greenwich, and Bridgeport gneisses are all hornbleudic, ver^' dark 
graj', and split readily in the direction of their lamination; their uses 
are strictly local. 

Delaware. — This State [)roduces scarcely anything in the way of gran- 
ite rocks. A few quarries of a dark gray gneiss are worked near Wil- 
mington, and are used for general building purposes in this city. One 
church and several private dwellings have been constructed of this 
stone, which belongs to the class known as a iqjite hornblende gneiss, 
since it contains both of these minerals in about equal proportions. 

Georgia. — Although this State is known to contain inexhaustible 
(pumtities of building stones of the finest quality, but little systematic; 
(piarrying is done, and none of the rocks have more than a local repu- 
tation. A fine grade of muscovite granite, light gray in color, occurs at 
Stone ^lountain, near Atlanta, and also a dark gray hornbleudic gneiss. 
A hornbleudic granite resembling that of (^uincy, Mass., is said to 
occur in Oglethorpe County, though the author has never seen any of 
the material. 

Elaine. — The large extent of coast-line of the State of Maine, composed 
of granitic rocks of a kind suitable for building i)urposes, renders possi- 
ble the shipment and transportation of the -quarried rock at rates much 
lower than would otherwise be attainable, the (puirries being frequently 
situated so near the water's edge that little, if any, handling is neces- 
sary i)rior to loading U}H)n the vessel. This favorble circumstance, to- 
gether with the excellent <juality of the rock obtainable, led to the early 
opening of very numerous <puirries both on the mainland and the 
adjacent islands, and hence at the present time are found Maine granites 
in very general use in nearly every city of inq)ortance in the country, 
eveu as far west as Califoi-nia, freipu'utly to the almost entire exclusion 
of perhaps equally good material close at hand. 

According to the returns furnished by the special agents in theenq)l()y 
of till! building-stone dcjjartmentof the Tenth Census, there wert'duiing 
the census year some eighty-tliree ipiarries of various kinds of buihling 
stone in tiie State, situated chiefly either immediately on the coast or 
within easy reacli of tide- water. 

Of these eighty-three (puirries seventy-four were of granite or gneiss. 
The diflerent varieties of these stones produced may be classed under 
the following heads: ])i()tite granite, biotite-muscovite granite, horn- 
blende granite, hornblende-biotite granite, biotite gneiss, and biotite- 
muscovite gneiss. 

Biotite granite. — The great majority of the Maine granites are of 
this kind. They vary usually from light to dark gray in color, though 



414 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

pinkish and red varieties are quarried iu a few instances. At Red 
Beach, near Calais, and at Jonesborough there is quarried a pink or 
reddish rock, very compact and hard, which from a simple examination 
with the unaided eye is seen to be composed of i)ink or cream-colored 
feldspars, smoky quartz, and a few small shreds of mica. An examiufi- 
tion of a thin section with the microscoi)e does not greatly increase the 
number of constituent minerals. The mica, which is usually of a green- 
ish color, is very evenly disseminated throughout the rock and in very 
small shreds, bearing numerous iuclosures of magnetite. A few small 
apatite crystals are as usual present, but are visible only with a micro- 
scope. 

The evenness of the grain of these rocks, and the occurrence of the 
mica only in small amount and in minute tlakes are matters of great 
practical importance, since they allow the production of a more perfect 
surface and lasting polish than would otherwise be possible. The text- 
ure of the rock is much finer than the red Scotch granite, and the color 
a more delicate i)ink. They are, in fact, the most beautiful of any of 
our pink or red granites now in the market, and are used very exten- 
sively for monuments, ornamental work, and general building purposes. 
The largest blocks ever taken out from these quarries was 7 by 7 feet 
and 2 feet thick. It is said, however, that blocks 30 by 15 by 2^ feet 
could be obtained if desired. The principal markets of the stone are 
Boston, Providence, New York City, Baltimore, Thiladelphia, Buffalo, 
Cincinnati, Cleveland, and Columbus, Ohio, Springfield and Chicago, 
111., Milwaukee, Saint Louis, Charleston, S. C, Washington, D. C, 
and San Francisco, Cal. 

At West Sullivan, iu Hancock County, a light gray, sometimes slightly 
pinkish, granite of medium texture is extensively quarried for paving 
blocks and general building purposes. The stone corresponds closely 
with that quarried in the town of Franklin. A slightly pinkish granite 
of coarse texture is also quarried at Somerville, on Mt. Desert Island. 
This stone was used in the construction of the Brooklyn approaches to 
the East Eiver bridge and in the arches and foundations of the new 
bridges in Back Bay Park, Boston. Blocks 150 by 50 by IS feet have 
been loosened in the (piarry. " The position of these quarries is pecul- 
iarly good for shipi^ing, as they lie near the head of Somer Sound, 
along a narrow and very deep fiord, running several miles inland from 
the southwest harbor, between the mountains. One of the quarries is 
situated on the side of a hill and at the water's edge. The sheets of 
stone are very thick in some cases, one being 18 feet in thickness." 

In the vicinity of East Blue Hill, iu this same county, are quarried 
some of the most beautiful gray granites at present iu the market. The 
rock varies from fine, even-grained gray or slightly pinkish to coarsely 
porphyritic. A foot cube of this granite in the National Museum is 
composed of a fine even-grained gray groundmass, carrying very many 
snow-white crystals of orthoclase an inch or more in length. This is 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. . 415 

one of the most beautiful gray granites for monumental work with wliicli 
the author is acquainted. Blocks 1)0 by 80 by feet have been moved 
out in some of these quarries. Specimens of this granite tested at the 
Centennial Exposition at Philadelphia in 1876 showed a crushing 
strength of 22,000 pounds per square inch. In the quarries the stone 
lies in sheets from 3 to 10 feet in thickness. The principal markets are 
Philadelphia, New York, Chicago, Harrisburg, and Washington, D. C. 

Two varieties of granite are quarried at Mount Waldo, in the town of 
Frankfort. Both are light-gray rocks, frequently porphyritic through 
large white orthoclase crystals. Both varieties are of the same mineral 
couq)osition, the difference being simply one of texture, one being quite 
coarse and somewhat porphyritic, while the other is much finer and of 
more even texture. As would naturally be expected, the finer grade is 
the better and more durable rock, the coarser variety being more liable 
to crumble. The mica occurs in large flakes, which the microscoiie 
shows to be freipiently pierced by small crystals of apatite. A part of 
the mica is greenish in color and contains a few small grains of epidote. 
An occasional tlako of Avhite mica was noticed in this rock, and there 
is ])resent the usual sprinkling of magnetite granules, together with 
an occasional cube of pyrite. Quarries were opened at Mt. Waldo in 
1853, and single blocks 80 by 40 by 20 feet have been taken out and 
afterward cut up. It is estimated that blocks 150 by 50 by 12 feet could 
be obtained if desired. The rock has been used largely in the building 
of forts on the coast of Maine, but is also used for all purposes, both 
ornamental and otherwise, to which granite is usually applied, and has 
been shipped as far South as Mobile and New Orleans. It is a beautiful 
stone when polished. The principal quarry is situated on Mt. Waldo, 
overlooking the Penobscot Eiver, at an elevation of some 320 feet above 
high tide. 

The quarries at Vinalhaven, in Penobscot liay, are the most exten- 
sive of any at present in operation in this country. (Quarries were first 
opened here about 1850, and the present annual product is upwards of 
200,000 cubic feet, valued at some $110,000. Upwards of six hundred 
men are regularly employed at the works, though the number has at 
times risen as high as one thousand five hundred. The capabilities of 
the quarries can be best illustrated by stating that during a visit of the 
writer to these quarries in the summer of 1883 he was shown the re- 
mains of a huge block of granite 300 feet long, 20 feet wide, and vary- 
ing from (I to 10 feet in thickness, that had been loosened from the 
quarry in a single piece and afterward broken up. The largest block 
ever quarried and dressed was the General Wool monument, now in 
Troy, N. Y., which measured, when finished, CO feet in height by 5.] feet 
square at the base, or only feet 7 inches shorter than the Egyptian 
obelisk now in Central Park, New York. 

In texture the Vinalhaven rock is rather coarse and the general color 
gray, although the prevailing feldspar is sometimes of a light flesh- 



41G . KErUKT OM NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

color. Besides biotite, the rock contains small amounts of horubleude 
and microscopic ai)atite and zircon crystals.* It takes a good and last- 
ing polish, and is well adapted for all manner of ornamental work and 
general building purposes. The stone has been used so extensively all 
over the country, that to cite sjiecial cases seems superfluous. 

A granite closely resembling that of Vinalhaven is extensively quar- 
ried at Hurricane Island, some 3 miles distant, in a southwesterly direc- 
tion, and is used for similar ])urposes. The structure of the stone here 
differs in different i)arts of the quarry. In one portion it lies in com- 
paratively thin sheets, while in another there occur immense masses of 
solid rock, extending downward for 50 fieet without perceptible jointing. 
A block of 80 tons has been moved, and a mass 80 by 40 by 25 feet was 
loosened in the quarry. Natural blocks 500 feet long, 20 feet wide, and 
50 feet deep occur. 

The celebrated quarries on Dix Island, in Knox County, from whence 
was obtained the granite for the United States Treasury building at 
Washington, including the monolithic columns, 311 high by 3 feet in di- 
ameter, are at the present writing (1885) abandoned. jSTearly the whole 
island has been quarried over and large blufls entirely removed. The 
rock is rich iu quartz, and therefore quite hard, but is a good and safe 
working stone. It has been very extensively used in New York City, 
Philadelphia, and Washington, D. C. 

To give a special description of each and all the quarries of biotite 
granite to be found u[)on the coast would extend this work far beyond 
the prescribed limits. A complete list of them is to be found in the 
Museum catalogue. 

Muscovite biotite gkanites. — The granite of Augusta and Jlal- 
lowell has long been justly celebrated for its beauty and fine working 
qualities. It is a fine, light-gray rock, the uniformity of whose texture 
is often broken by the presence of large white crystals of microcline 
which inclose small, rounded grains of quartz. Uiotite and muscovite 
occur in abundance, and in about e(iual proportions, but in small flakes, 
the muscovite ap])earing as small, silvery-white glistening particles on 
a broken surface of the rock. Under the microscope three feldspars 
are readily distinguished — orthoclase in imperfect crystals and irregu- 
lar grains, an abumlauce of i)lagioclase, and microcline in large plates 
filled with cavities and inclosures of muscovite and quartz. In the thin 
sections the quartz inclosures are usually circular in outline and are 
pierced in every direction by minute thread-like crystals of rutile, in 
polarized light showing up in strong contrast with the beautiful basket, 
work structure of the inclosing microcline. All the feldspars are quite 
fresh and pure. A few apatite crystals are present, together with occa- 

* In Hitchcock's " Keport ou tlie Geology uiid Natural History of Maine," 1862, p_ 
205, the Viualliaveu rock is referred to as a "peculiarly fine-grained syenite of good 
color," etc. In none of the specimens received at the Museum from this locality, 
however, does hornblende play more than a secondary part, and in the majority of 
cases does not appear at all. Hence all arc classed as biotite-grauitcs. 



Report of National Museum, 1 886.— Merrill. 



Plate VIII. 




\ 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 417 

siohal garnets, wliicli in thin sections are always destitute of crystalline 
form, appearing as rounded or oval nearly colorless bodies traversed by 
many irregular lines of fracture. They are quite free from impurities, 
though occasionally containing inclosures of biotite. As is usual in 
muscovite-beariug rocks bnt little magnetite is present; in two cases 
only grains of pyrite were noticed. 

This is one of the best working of the Maine granites, and is used 
very extensively-, not only for building and monuments, but is carved 
into statues, like marble. The rock is properly a gneiss, but showing 
no signs of stratification in the hand specimen is classed here as a granite. 
As illustrative of the great extent of the quarries, it is stated that blocks 
200 feet in length, by 40 feet in width and S feet in thickness, can be 
broken out in a single piece if so desired. There is no gap between the 
sheets, and little or no i)yrite to cause discoloration. The sheets, as is 
usually the case, increase in thickness downward, being about 1 foot 
thick at the surface and 10 feet thick at the bottom of the present open- 
ings, which are from HO to (>0 feet deep. (See Plate viii.) 

This stone is in such demand for statuary and monumental work that 
an Italian designer who served his apprenticeshi}) in Roman studios 
is employed constantly by the company. ]\Iany of the workmen are 
also said to be Italians who worked on marble in Italy, but have learned 
to cut granite since their arrival in Ilallowell. Ainong the ])rominent 
structures and monuments constructed, wholly or in ])aTt, of this stone, 
are the new capitol, Albatiy, N. Y.; IJank of Northern Liberties, IMiila- 
delphia; State capitol, Augusta, Me.; Emory Elock, [Portland, Me.; 
Odd Fellows' Memorial IFall, Efjuifable IJn.ilding, and part of the old 
Quincy Market, Boston; Ludlow-street Jail, tlie Tribune building, and 
the old Tombs prison. New York City; the statues of the Pilgrim's 
Monument at Plymouth, Mass.; soldier's and sailor's monunuMils at 
Marblehead, Mass.; Portsmouth, Ohio; Augusta, Poothbay, and Oar- 
diner, Me.; Odd Fellows' monument. Mount Ilope, Boston; Washing- 
ton Artillery monument and Hernandez tomb, New Orleans, etc. The 
statues on the Pilgrim's Monument are said to be the largest granite 
figures in existence. The standing figure is 38 feet in height, while 
the four in sitting posture are each 15 feet in height. 

noRNBLENDE GRANITE. — This is rather a rare building-stone in 
Maine, though extensively cjuarried in other States. Its production is 
at present confined to Otter Creek, Mount Desert, where a coarse red 
rock is quarried, which on a superficial examination somewhat resem- 
bles the biotite granites of Calais and Jonesborough, though lacking the 
cream colored feldspar and consequent speckled appearance character- 
istic of these rocks. Orthoclase predominates over all other constit- 
uents, and is deep-red in coloi-. 

This rock is very <M)mpact and hard, but works well and takes an ex- 
cellent surface and polish. Jt is of finer textui'e than the Scotch -red 
granites, aiul bears a closer resend)lan<!e to red granites of the Bay of 
n. Mis. 170, pt. 2- 27 



418 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Fundy than to ni)y otlicr at present iu tbe collection. If the specimen 
received at the Mnseiun is a fair sample of the rock at the qnarry, it is 
certainly a most excellent stone, though its otherwise uniform texture 
is often interrupted hy the presence of oval or rounded black patches 
or knots, caused by segregations of mica, hornblende, and other iron-rich 
minerals. This is, however, a defect not uncommon iu many of the 
Maine granites.* 

Maryland. — The most noted quarries in this State are situated in Bal- 
timore County, near Woodstock. The rock is a biotite granite, varying 
from light to dark gray in color, and of about medium texture. It is 
used extensively for general building puri)oses and for monumental 
work in Baltimore, Washington, and some of the Western States. At 
Mount Royal and opposite Ellicott City finegrained dark-gray gneiss 
is quite extensively quarried for general building purposes, curbstones, 
etc. A part of this rock is beautifully porphyritic through large felds- 
pars an inch or more in length. 

A dark-gray gneiss, which is the principal stone used in Baltimore 
for rough work, is quarried in the immediate vicinity of the city. 

At Port Deposit, in Cecil County, a gray biotite gneiss is extensively 
quarried, and is used chiefly' for bridge building, docks, harbor improve- 
ment, and general building work. It has been used in the construction 
of Haverford College, Md., St. Dominick's Church, Washington, and 
several churches in the immediate vicinity. Other locations where 
good quality of granite is exposed, but not quarried to any extent, are 
(xwynn's Falls, in Baltimore County, and 3 miles east of Rockville, in 
Montgomery County. 

All of the Maryland granites and gneiss at present quarried have 
biotite as their chief accessory, are of a gray color and of medium fine- 
ness of grain. They appear, however, better adaj^ted for general build- 
ing than for ornamental work. 

Massaehnseffs. — As Massachusetts was the earliest settled of the Kew 
England States it is but natural that here the systematic ijuarryiug of 
granite should first be undertaken. As already noted,! granite from 
the bowlders on the Quiucy Connnon, and from Chelmsford began to 
be used iu and about Bostcni as early as 1737, but it was not until the 
early part of the i)resent century that its use became at all genertil- 
Indeed it may be said tliat it was not until the opening of the quarries 
at Quincy in 182;"> that the granite industry assumed any importance. 
From this time the use of tlie stone for general buihling puri)oses in- 
creased in a marked degree, and the history of granite quarrying in the 
United States may properly begin with this date. 

This early opening of quarries at Quincy was due largely to the de- 
mand for stone at Charlestown for building the Bunker Hill monument. 



*See On the Black Patches in Maine Granite, Proc. Nat. Mus., 1883, p. 137; also, 
On the Collection of Maine Building Stone in the National Mnaeuni, Proc. Nat, Mus., 
1883, p. 165. 

t Ante p. 286. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 419 

but tlie atteutiou of capitalists being" thereby called to the extent of the 
grauite ledges in this vicinity other works were soon established, and 
at the presen.t time the two towns of Quincy and West Qaincy contain 
upwards of thirty quarries. Altogrether these produce not less than 
7UO,000 cubic feet annually, and give employment to upwards of eight 
hundred men. 

The Quincy granites are as a rule dark blue-gray in color, coarse 
grained, and hard. A pinkish variety is quarried to a slight extent. 
They are all hornblende granites, and their general api^earance so char- 
acteristic that once seen they are always easily recognizable wherever 
met with. As already mentioned these rocks contain besides hornblende 
a very brittle variety of pyroxene, which makes the production of a per- 
fect surface somewhat difficult. Nevertheless, they are very exten- 
sively used both for rough and finished work. The United States 
custom-houses at Boston, Mass., Providence, 11. I., Mobile, Ala., Sa- 
vannah, Ga., New Orleans, La., and San Francisco, Cal., are of this 
stone, as are also the new Masonic Temple and Eidgeway Library bnild- 
ing-, in Philadelphia. In Boston alone there are one hundred and six- 
ty-two buildings constructed wholly or in part of this material. Its 
suitability for interior decorative work can not be better shown than 
by reference to the polished stairways and pilasters in the new city 
buildings at Philadelphia. 

Other xery extensive quarries of hornblende-granite are located at 
Caj)e Ann, in the town of Gloucester, where it is stated * that quarry- 
ing was commenced as early as 182J: by a Mr. Bates, of Quincy. The 
largest quarries in the State, and, with the exception of those at Vinal- 
haven, Me., the largest works now in operation in the United States, 
are situated at this place. Like that of Quincy the rock is hornblendic, 
though frequently considerable black mica is present.t The texture is 
coarse and the color greenish, owing to the orthoclase it contains. Some 
varieties are, however, simply gray. It is a hard, tough rock, eminently 
durable, and well suited for all manner of general building and orna- 
mental work. The stone has been used in tlie construction of the post- 
office and several churches and private buildings in Boston, and the 
Butler house on Caj^itol Hill at Washington. 

Other hornblendic granites, somewhat similar in appearance, are (piar- 
ried at liockport, Peabody, Wyoma, Lynn, and Lynnfield, all of which 
are represented in the Museum collection. The Eockport stone is the 
most imiiortant of these, and has been qnarried since 1830. In color 
and texture it is indistinguishable from nuu;h of the GhMiccster stone, 
but, if anything, is of a more decided greenish hue. Jn tlie quarries 
it is extremely massive, and blocks 100 feet long by .W feet wide and I(» 

* History of Gloiicontcr, Ca[)c. Atiii, l»y J. .J. Hiibsoii, ]>. f)??. 

tTlie lil:u;U mica of Mie Gloiuuist.er ami Rockport >^raiii(.f.s lias ht'cn isIhiwii l>y I'ro. 
fcHsoiij Dana and Cooke to bo lepidomelauc or auiiilo. (Text book ol" Mineralogy, !>• 
313). 



420 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

feet thick have been loosened from the bed in a single piece, while it is 
estimated a block 200 feet long 50 feet wide and 20 feet thick conld be 
obtained if desired. The principal markets are ISTew York, Boston, 
Kew Orleans, and Cuba. 

Biotite granites. — Several important quarries of coarse biotite granite 
are worked in this State, but their product is mostly used in the near 
vicinity. Light pink varieties admirably adapted for rock-faced work 
occur at Brockton, Milford, and North Easton. The Milford stone, 
though not extensively quarried, is particularly elfective when used in 
this manner, as is well illustrated in the new city hall at Albany, N. 
Y., and also in the new railway station at Auburndale, Mass. At 
Framingham, Leominster, Fitchburgh, Clinton, Fall River, and Freetown 
are also quarries of coarse gray but apparently strong and durable 
granites of this class. 

Eiridote (jranite. — This is a rare variety of granite in this country, the 
quarries at Dedham producing all that is now upon the market. The 
stone is fine-grained and of a light pink color. Besides ejiidote, which 
is visible to the naked eye as small greenish specks, it contains numer- 
ous flecks of chlorite, resulting from tlio alteration of a black mica. 
The stone works readily and gives very pleasing effects either in polished 
or rock-face work. It is of this stone that was constructed the new 
Trinity Church in Boston, and which is considered by good authorities 
to be, from an architectural standijoint, the finest building in America. 

Gneiss.— A fine-grained very light gray, sometimes pinkish, muscovite 
gneiss of excellent quality has been quarried more or less for the past 
thirty-five years near the town of Westford. Other quarries of gneiss 
are at West Audover, Lawrence, Lowell, Ayer, several towns in Worces- 
ter County, at Becket, Northfield, and Monson, as will be noted in the 
tables. 

Being in most cases distinctly stratified, these gneisses are not 
adapted to so wide a range of application as the massive granites, but at 
the same time the ease with which in many cases they can be quarried 
makes them particularly valuable for foundations, bridge abutments, 
curbing, paving, and rock-faced building. At the Monson quarries, for 
instance, the rock is divided by a series of joints, approximately parallel 
to the surface of the hill on which the quarries are situated, into im- 
mense lenticular sheets from G inches to 10 feet in thicknes. By tak- 
ing advantage of these natural facilities a block was split out in 1869 
which measured 354 feet in length by 11 feet in width and 4 feet in 
thickness. An analysis of the Monson stone from the Flynt quarry is 
given in the tables. 

As a general rule it may be stated that while the granites and 
gneisses of Massachusetts are good and safeworking stones they are 
coarse and in no way remarkable for their beauty. In the matter of 
color and texture they bear a striking contrast to the fine and evou 
grained stones of her sister States, Connecticut and Khode Island. 



BUILDING AND OKNAMENTAL STONES. 421 

Minnesota. — According to Professor Wiuchell uiorc tliau half the 
Stato of Miunesota is uiulerhiid by that j^eiieral chiss of rocks — the 
crystalliue — to which grauite belongs. lu the northern part of the State 
there are large exposures of very fine light-colored granites, but being 
beyond the limits of settlements and roads those iii the southern and 
western part, in the country bordering along the Mississipi)i and Min- 
nesota Rivers, are of more especial interest and importance. These last 
have been somev.iuit (puirried and the materials can be seen in some of 
the principal buildings in various parts of the State, as well as in cities 
beyond the State limits. The first quarry in these rocks in Miunesota 
was that now owned by Breen & Young, at East Saint Cloud, Sher- 
bnrne County. 

This was opened in 1808, and the stone first taken out was used in 
the corners, steps, and trimmings of the United States customhouse 
and post-oftice in Saint Paul. Three kinds of stone were taken out 
and used indiscriminately, and all of them may be seen in the building 
first erected. The variety now more generally used is of a gray color 
and uniform texture. The crystalline grains are rather fine, so that the 
texture is close. The color, however, is sometimes disturbed by the 
apx)earauce of greenish spots of the size of butternuts or even as large 
as G inches in diameter, caused by segregations of a green chlorite. 
''About one-third of the whole rock is made up of quartz, aiul two-thirds 
of the remainder of orthoclase. About one-half the remainder is horn- 
blende and the residue is divided between the other minerals, the chlo- 
rite predominating." An occasional grain of a triclinic feldspar is 
present together with magnetiie and ijyrite in minute crystals.! 

"The red granite from East Saint Cloud is not very different from 
the foregoing, but the feldspar is mainly flesh red and all the grains 
are coarser." It also has a higher per cent, of silica, a fact that has 
been discovered practically by the owners, who had given up the gen- 
eral use of it because of it being more costly to work. "* * * In the 
winter of 1874-5 a block weighing ten tons was taken out of the red- 
granite quarry, about 3 miles west of Saint Cloud, for a monument 
base. * * * It was very fine, and greatly resembled the Scotch 
granite in color, grain, and polish. At the point where this was taken 
out the granite rises about 20 feet above the general surface and si)reads 
over more than an acre. A similar red granite occurs at Watab (in 
Benton County), and has furnished several haiulsome monuments." A 
light-gray granite also occurs here.* 

At Sauk Rai)ids, in the same county, there is found a fine-grained 
gray granite closely resembling the gray variety from East Saint Cloud. 

* Sec Geol. aud Natural Hist. Survey of Minnesota, Vol. i, pages 142-148. 

t These rocks arc designated iu i'rofessor Wincboll's report above referred to as 
"Syenites." According to tlio system of classification now generally adopted, they 
are ratlier liorubleudic or bornbleude-biotite granites, as designated by tlie author in 
the census report, p. 90. The name si/cniic, as already noted, is ap^diedtoa quarti^lesa 
rock (see pp. oOd aud 4o0). 



422 REPORT ON NATIONAL MU.SEUM, 1886. 

It has been quite geuerally used, and is one of the best-known granites 
in the State. 

Missouri.— AMhongh there are inexhaustible quantities of granite in 
the northern part of Iron and Madison Counties and the southern por- 
tion of Saint Francois, there are but few quarries of the material sys- 
tematically worked. 

At Graniteville, Iron County, and in Syenite, Saint Francois County, 
there occurs a coarse reel graiiite, quite poor in mica, which is now ex- 
tensively quarried for the Saint Louis and Chicago markets. It is 
somewhat lighter in color than the well known Scotch granite, but 
is admirably suited for nuissive structural purposes, as is Avell illus- 
trated in the lower stories of the line business blocks erected during 
the season of 1886 on Adams street, between Fifth avenue and Frank- 
lin, and on the corner of Adams and La Salle streets, in Chicago. The 
enormous blocks of rock-faced granite and large polished columns of 
this stone as here displayed* would indicate that this is destined to be 
one of the leadiug granites of this portion of the country. It admits 
of a high lustrous polish and is coming into use for monumental work. 

Montana. — There is a plenty of good granite within the limits of the 
Territory, but for lack of a market scarcely any quarrying is at present 
carried on. 

A cube of a fine-grained light-gray biotite granite was received at 
the iS^ational Museum from Lewis and Clark Counties, but so far as the 
writer is aware the quarry has never been worked to any extent. A 
coarse hornblende-mica granite of a greenish-gray color and somewhat 
resembling the celebrated Quiucy and Gloucester (Massachusetts) stone 
forms the country rock in the region of the celebrated silver and cop- 
l)er mines of Butte, and is beginning to be used for purposes of heavy 
foundation and general building. So far as the writer was able to 
judge, from the short time he was on the ground, the rock is of excel- 
lent quality, but needs to be selected with care, as certain portions, 
those in proximity to the ore veins, are abundantly charged with 
pyrite, which oxidizes readily on exi^osure. 

Neiv Hampshire. — Although New Ilampshiro is popularly known as 
the "Granite State," in value of total product of the material it anks 
but fifth in the list of New England States, being preceded by Maine, 
Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Ehode Island. However this may be 
there are but few of our building stone that have a wider reputation than 
the fine light-gray muscovite-biotite granites from quarries near Concord. 

' The wiudo\v-8ills in the lirst of the above-meutioned biiildin<j;s are rough blocks 
of granite, each 3 feet square by 17 feet 4 inches long, and -weighing about 10 tons 
each. Tlie polished columns of the building corner of Adams and La Salle streets 
are ten in number, each 18 feet high by 4| feet in diameter, and weighing not far 
from 18 tons. The largest single block of polished granite yet produced at these 
works is the Allen monument, in Saint Louis, which is 42 feet in height by A} feet 
square at the ba^e. The weight is about 45 tons. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 423 

These rocks Lave been qiuuTied for many years and very extensively 
used for all manner of constrnetive purposes. The following list in- 
cludes some of the more important buildings and monuments made 
wliolly or in part from this material : Charter Oak Insurance Building, 
Hartford, Coini. ; soldiers' monument, at Manchester, N. H.; monu- 
ment to the discoverer of anesthetics; the Germania Savings Bank; 
Equitable Life Insurance; Masonic Temple; Massachusetts State 
])risoii, and some seventy-live other buildings in Boston, and Booth's 
Theater in New York. 

According to Professor Jlitclicock, the more important quarries are 
situated on what is known ns Itattlesnake Hill, an elevation yome fJOO 
feet above tlie level of the Merrimac Kiver, and which consists almost 
entirely of granite rocks. Other gi-auites of this class occur and are 
(juarried at Allentown, Suniii)ee, and Peterborough, and are used for 
simihir purposes, tliough they are not widely known outside of New 
England. Gray biotite granites of good quality are quarried at Mason, 
Fitzwilliam, Kumney, Hanover, Portsmouth, and other towns, as 
noticed in the tables. 

The Peterborougli, JNlason, and Fitzwilliam are exported to some ex- 
tent to the neighboring States, but the others mentioned are used in 
the near vicinity. 

The New nam])sliire granites are nearly without exception of tine 
and even grain and well adapted for all kiiuls of work. The Concord 
rock is practically identical both in general ai)pearance aud mineral 
compof^ition with that of Hallowell, Maine, already described. 

New York. — This State, although rich in marbles, limestones, and 
sandstones, produces little of general interest in the way of granite 
rock. A coarse, gray biotite gneiss is quarried at Hastings- upon- Hud- 
son, in Westchester County; a somewhat darker hornblendic gneiss at 
Cold Spring, in Putnam County; and a coarse red hornblendic granite 
at Clayton, in Jefferson County. 

The gneisses are quarried chiefly for the rough work of foundations 
in the vicinity. Tiie red granite from Grindstone Island (Clayton post- 
ollice) is a beautiful stone and takes a tine polish. The sample for- 
warded to the National Museum, however, contains jtarticles of iron 
pyrite, which unQt it for monumental work. The ])resent product of 
the ipiarry is made into paving blocks and monuments, principally for 
Chicago, 111., and Montreal, Canada, though two beautiful columns of 
it are to be seen in the new capitol building at Albany, N. Y. 

New Jerseij. — Aside from a single quarry of greenish-gray gneiss at 
Dover, Morris County, in this State, no granitic or gneissic rocks are 
anywhere regularly worked within the State limits. But "Gneissic 
rocks are found in a few localities in tliick beds and so Jointed that large 
Hud regular blocks can be quarried out at a comparatively snuxll cost. 
'<Jf the quarries that have been opened and worked to any extent that 
a*; INver aloue is kept steadily- in operation, It furnishes a Iftrge 



424 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

-amount of stone aunually for railroad construction along the line of the 
Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad. The same rock occurs 
iilong- the ISfew York, Ontario, and Western Railroad from Pompton to 
franklin, and at several points its outcrops hav^e been opened for 
stone. The Sussex and Central Railroad lines also cross the rock. A 
large quarry was opened a few years ago near Franklin, on the mount- 
ain east of the village, but the place, though promising, was soon 
abandoned. The stone was adapted for heavy work. The transporta- 
tion appeared to be too expensive for it to comi)ete with stone coming 
by water routes."* 

Fcnnsylvania. — Although ranking as second in importance in che list 
of stone-producing States, Pennsylvania furnishes very little in the way 
of granitic rock, and absolutely nothing in this line of more than local in- 
terest. ''The southern gneissic district, described in the geological re- 
Ijorts of Pennsylvania as ranging from the Delaware River at Trenton 
to the Susquehanna, south of the State line and lying south of the 
limestone valley of Montgomery, is the district in which are located 
nearly all the quarries of gneiss in the State, and those furnishing most 
of the material are in the vicinity of Philadelphia." The rock, which 
is for the most part a dark-gray hornblende gneiss, is quarried at Ritten- 
housetown, Twenty-lirst ward, and Germautown, Twenty-second ward, 
and Jenkinstown, in Montgomery County, and is used principally for the 
rough work of foundations in the near vicinity. In Chester, Delaware 
County, the gneiss bears mica in place of horublende and is, as a rule, 
lighter in color. The quarries are in close proximity to the Delaware 
River, which affords an easy method of transportation to Philadelphia, 
the principal market. This stone is also used almost wholly for foun- 
dations, though in some cases it has been used as rock-faced work in 
the fronts of private dwellings, with rather a pleasing effect. 

Rhode Island. — The granites of this State are nearly all fine-grained 
light gray or pink biotite granites, the principal quarries of which arc 
situated some 2 miles east from Westerly, in Washington County. The 
rock is of fine and even texture and of excellent quality, and is much 
used for monumental work and general building. Other quarries of 
biotite granite occur at Smithfield, West Greenwich, Newi)ort, and 
Kiantic. A greenish, fine gray, hornblendic gneiss is quarried at Dia- 
mond Hill, in Providence County. Aside from the Westerlj^ rock the 
most of this material is for local market only. 

Tennessee. — At the present time scarcely anj'thing in the line of gra- 
nitic rock is quarried in this. State, and owing to the limited areas occu- 
pied by granite ledges it is more than doubtful if the granite quarrying 
ever assumes any great importance. SuuiU outcrops of granite, gneiss, 
or mica schist occur in the extreme eastern and southern parts of Polk, 
Monroe, Cocke, Washington, Carter, and Johnson Counties, in the east- 
ern part of the State, but even these are not in all cases suitable for 
* Aua. Kep. uf Statt? treologist of New Jersey, 1886, px^. 41-45i. 



BUILDING AND OKNAMKNTAL STONES. 425 

any but the roughest work. The Museum coUectious coutaiu au ex- 
tremely coarse greeuish epidotic granite, with hirge red porphyritic 
crystals of orthochise, from Bench Mountain, in Coclve County, which 
might perhar»s be worked if there were a market. 

iSoHth Carolina. — Although no granites from this State are to be found 
in our principal markets, it by no means follows tliat there is any de- 
ficiency in the sui)ply. The collection now in the Museum shows, on 
the contrary, that excellent stones of this class occur in various local- 
ities. 

Near Win nsborough, in 1^'airfield County, quarries have recently been 
oi)ened which furnish fine-grained gray biotite granite fully equal to 
any in the market. The quarries, as we are informed by the owner, Mr. 
AV. Woodward, cover some 70 acres of bowlders and two large ledges, 
one 11 acres in extent and the other 0. The stone works readily and 
aciiuires an excellent i>olis]j. A i)inkish granite also occurs in this same 
county. Other granites in this State, of which we hav^e seen specimens, 
but concerning which we have but little accurate information, occur near 
Columbia, Kichland County; and in Newberry, Lexington, Edgefield, 
and Aiken Counties. The Columbia stone is of a light-gray color, ap- 
l)arently of excellent quality. It was used in the construction of the 
State house in that city, and is stated to be very durable.* 

Texas. — lied granites, both coarse and fine, occur in Burnet County, 
in this State, though at present neither are quarried to any extent. 
Both varieties carry biotite as the chief accessory mineral. The coarser 
variety corresi)onds closely with the coarse red granite from Platte 
Ciinon, Colo. Their colors are dull and they seem better adapted for 
rough building than for monumental work. 

rf((h Territory. — A coarse, light- gray granite occurs in inexhaustible 
quantities in Little Cottonwood Canon, not far from Salt Lake City. So 
far the stone has been quarried only from bowlders that have been rolled 
down the canon, and the parent ledge remains untouched. This stone 
has been used in the construction of the new Mormon temple at Salt 
Lake City. 

Vermont. — This State furnishes but little in the way of granitic rocks, 
from the fact that lew of her (piarries produce material not foun<l 
elsewhere in New England, where there are better and cheaper facilities 
for transportation. Quarries of biotite granite of fine grain and a gray 
color are, however, worked at Barre, Bruns\vi(5k, Morgan, Ilyegate, 
and Woodbury. A very light, almost white, muscovite granite is also 
<piarried at Bethel. The most of these rocks are for local use only, 
though that from Brunswick is said to be carried to some extent into the 
neighboring cities in New York State. 

Wyomimj. — "Tlie only building stone which is quarried in Wyoming is 
at Sherman, the highest point of the Northern Pacific Eailroad. At this 
point — the summit of the Black Ilills — the road cuts through a heavy 

* South C:u()liii;i, Resources, rojjiil.itioii, etc., 1S8U, p. COD. 



426 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

body of red granite similar to the Scotch, but with much hirger crystals." 
This stone has been used to some extent in San Francisco and Sacra- 
mento, but is hard to work, owing to its coarseness and hick of tenacity.* 

Virginia. — The granites of this State are, as a rule, fine-grained, 
biotite-bearing rocks, and of a light-gray color. They correspond in a 
remarkable degree with the granites of Ncav England, more so than 
those of any Southern or Western State. The principal quarries, thus 
far developed are in Chesterfiekl and Henrico Counties on the James 
River, and within easy reach of the Richmond market. 

Tlie quarry of the Richmond Granite Company, on the Richmond and 
Alleghany Railroad, near Richmond, produces a massive gray granite 
used for general building puri)0ses, paving stone, and monumental 
work, and which is shipped more or less to all the States and cities 
south of New England and as far west as Nebraska. Much of the ma- 
terial is dressed at the quarry, polishing works being located on the 
ground. 

The Old Dominion Granite Company and the Westham Granite Com- 
pany, in Chesterfield County, produce a very similar stone, the principal 
markets of which are in Richmond, Washington, Norfolk, Lynchburgh, 
and Philadelphia. Other important quarries are in the Tuckahoc dis- 
trict, Henrico County, and Naniozine district, Dinwiddle County. Stone 
from the last-named locality was used in the construction of the post- 
oifice and custom-house at Petersburgh, Va. The most important build- 
ing yet constructed of the Virginia granites is the State, War, and 
Navy building in Washington, which is probably the most elaborate 
granite structure in the country. Near Fredericksburgh is found a tine 
light gray muscovite-biotite granite closely resembling those of Hallo- 
well, Me., and Concord, N. H., but it is not at present (piarried to any 
extent. 

Wisconsin.— Tho, extensive outcrops of granite rock in this State have 
been scarcely at all worked up to the present time, owing to the lack of 
transportation facilities. At the present writing the most inq)ortaut 
quarries are at Montello, Marquette County, and Wausau, Marathon 
County. The Montello rock is very fine grained, compact, and of a dull 
pink color. Quarries were first opened here to furnish leaving stones 
for the Chicago market, but the stone has since been used to a consid- 
erable extent for general building and monumental work. 

According to Prof. T. C. Chamberlainf the great Laurentian area of 
the northern part of the State is occupied largely by granite and gneiss, 
among which are some of exceptional excellence. Granite rocks of 
greater or less excellence crop out along the upper reaches and tribu- 
taries of the Menominee, the Peshtigo, the Oconto, the Wolf, the Wis- 
consin, the Yellow, the Black, the Chippewa, the Flambeau, the Bad, 
and the Montreal Rivers. These are now being brought within the 
reach of cheap transportation, and should be utilized to the mutual 
benefit of those who work and those who use. 



Report Teutti (Jeusus, Vol. X, [>. S78. f Geology of Wisconsin, Vol. I, p. 66. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 427 

F.— THE PORPHYRIES, PORPHYRITIC PELSITE. 

(1) COMPOSITION AND ORIGIN. 

Popularly any fiuc-grained, compact rock, carrying larger crystals 
scattered tbrongliout its mass is called a porpbyry, whatever may be 
its c()nii)Osition. In tbe ])reseut work tbe term bas been restricted to 
those acid eruptive rocks of pre-Tertiary origin, consisting of a very coin- 
l)act felsitic base formed of an intimate mixture of <|uartz and fehlspar 
and in which one or both of these minerals are porphyritically deveh)[)ed. 
The groundmass is usually too line to allow a determination of its coiujto- 
sition by the unaided eye, and under the microsco[)e is found to possess 
that peculiar felt-like structure called by lithologists microfelsitic. The 
poil)iiyritic crystals are usually of a different color from thegroun<lmass 
in which they are imbedded, and hence produce the striking efiect which 
has made these rocks so famous in all ages and caused them to be used 
in the huest ornamentations in spite of their hardness. 

{2) VARIETIES OF PORPHYRY. 

Accordingly as the porphyries vary in mineral composition they are 
divided into two i)rincipal varieties: (1) Quartz porphyry, which con- 
sists of the line-grained groundmass in which quartz alone or quartz and 
orthoclase are porphyritically developed, and (2) quartz-free or ortho- 
clase i)orphyry, in which orthoclase alone prevails, no quartz appear- 
ing either porphyritically or in the groundmass. This last variety, it 
will be seen, bears the same relation to the (piartz pori)hyries as does 
syenite to the granites. Through an entire disappearance of the por- 
pliyritic crystals, the rock passes into felsite. The porphyries bear the 
same accessory minerals (hornblende, mica, etc.), as do the granites, but 
these are usually in such small particles as to be invisildeto the naked 
eye. 

Porphyries, like granites, are of a variety of colors ; red, pur[»le, gray, 
green, brown, and black of a variety of shades are not unconjmon, and 
when, as is so often the case, the porphyritic minerals contrast in color 
in a marked degree with the groundmass, the effect on a polished sur- 
face is very beautiful. 

(:•.) USE OF PORPHYRY. 

The porphyries are as a rule intensely hard ;ind tough ami completely 
without rift in any direction. As a consequence they are scarcely at all 
used in this country, although among the most beautiful and indestiucti- 
l)le of our rocks. The celebrated porphyries of Elfdalen, Sweden, are 
wrought into a variety of objects of art, and with exceedingly beautiful 
eifects. Visitors at the Centennial I^lxposition in Philadelphia will re- 
call the beautiful large column and inlaid table of this stone that wai^ 
there displayed, 



428 KEPOliT ON NATIONAL MU8E[JM, 1886. 

(4) PORPHYRIES OF THE VARIOUS STATES AND TERRITORIES. 

Inexliaustible quantities of porphyries of a variety of colors and great 
beauty occur at Saugus, Maiden, Lyun, aud Marblebead, and other lo- 
calities in eastern Massachusetts, but which have never been utilized 
to any extent owing to the cost of working. Many of these are of ex- 
ceptional beauty, presenting colors red as jasi)er, through all shades of 
pink, gray, and even black, often beautifully variegated and brecciated 
in a variety of colors. Flow structures caused by the onward flowing 
of the rock while in a partially cooled condition often gives rise to a 
beautiful banding and interweaving of colors impossible to describe, and 
which must be seen to be appreciated. The striking beauty of this flow 
structure is sometimes heightened by the presence of angular fragments 
of variously colored portions of the rock, which, becoming broken froin 
the i)arent mass, have been imbedded in a matrix of quite ditferont 
color, as at Hingham, where we have found bright red fragments im- 
bedded in a yellowish paste. The rock acquires a beautiful polish, and 
the fact that it has not ere this come into more general use is a sad 
comment upon the taste of our wealthier citizens. Nearly as inde- 
structible as glass, and as beautiful as an agate, and yet almost wholly 
ignored except for i)urposes of rough construction. 

A large variety of porphyries, varying in color from black to red, oc- 
curs also in New Hampshire, j)articularly near Waterville, some of 
which would make fine ornamental stones. At Frauconia, in the White 
Mountains, there occurs a porphyry conglomerate formed of fragments 
of jasper red porphyry closely cemented into a compact rock, which is 
particularly beautiful. Slabs of this stone in the National Museum can 
not be excelled for richness of color. 

Porphyries are abundant in many other States, but are scarcely at- all 
used. Maine, Pennsylvania, Missouri, Minnesota, and Wisconsin all 
contain good material, though, as little or no search has been made for 
the highly ornamental varieties, it is impossible to say what they can 
produce. 

At Green Lake, in the last named State, there occurs a beautiful 
stone of this class, almost black in color, with white ]iori»hyritic feld- 
siuirs. It has been quarried to some extent near the town of Uttny, 
and polished columns of it may be seen in the German- American Bank 
building aud Union Depot at Saint Paul, Minn. It is greatly to be re- 
gretted that no economic method of working so beautiful and durable 
a material has as yet been discovered. 

Near Charlotte, in Mecklenburgh County, N. C, there occurs a very 
light colored, almost white, quartz jiorphyry, which is penetrated by 
long parallel streaks or pencils of a dead black color. These are so ar- 
ranged that, when cut across, the surface appears studded thickly with 
roundish and very irregular black points of all sizes up to half an inch. 
Cut i)arallel with the direction of the pencils, the surface is streaked 



\ 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 429 

with black lines, wliich sometimes assume the most beautiful fern-like or 
dendritic forms imaginable. 

The rock is intensely hard, tougb, and without definite rift. It can 
therefore be worked only at great cost, and is not regularly quarried. 
It has been used only locally for rough purj^oses, as for curbing, steps, 
and sills. An analysis of this rock is given in the tables. 

G. THE LIPAEITES. 

(1) ADAPTAIULITY FOli CONSTRUCTIVE RURPOSES. 

Tertiiiry and post-Tertiary rocks of any kind are at present very little 
used for constructive purposes in the United States, owing, in the case 
of fragmental rocks, to their state of imperfect consolidation and conse- 
(pient feeble tenacity, and in the case of eruptives to their almost entire 
absence in those portions of the country that have become permanently 
settled and where as a consequence there has arisen a demand for a more 
durable building material than wood. Of the eruptive rocks of this 
class only the liparites, andesites, and basalts have been at all utilized 
and these to but a small extent. Their textures are, as a rule, such as 
to fit them only for the rougher kinds of construction, since, with the 
exception of the glassy varieties, they will not polish, and their rough 
apjiearauce unfits them for any kind of interior decorative work. 

(2) MINERAL AND CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF LIPARITE. 

Under the head of liparites are classed those acid eruptive rocks con- 
sisting chieil}' of quartz and sanidin (the glassy variety of orthoclasc) 
which are not older than Tertiary and which may be regarded as the 
younger equivalents of the granites, quartz porphyries, and felsite 
jtitchstones. 

In texture they vary from coarsely granitoid rocks, entirely crystal- 
line throughout, through all intermediate felsitic stages to clear glassy 
forms. Structurally they vary from fine, compact, even-grained to 
coarsely i)orphyritic, amygdaloidnl, and sperulitic forms; well marked 
fluidal structure is common. The prevailing colors are chalky white 
to dark gray; more rarely greenish, brownish, yellowish, and reddish 
varieties occur. 

Tiie average chemical composition of liparite (quartz-trachyte) as 
given by Zirkel is silica, 7G.3G ; alumina, 11.07 ; iron oxides, 2.01 ; lime, 
1.09; magnesia, 0.5G ; potash, 3.70; soda, l.S.'J ; sjiecific gravity, 2.55. 

(;5) VARIETIES OF LIPARITES. 

According as tliey are crystalline throughout, felsitic and porphyritic 
or entirely glassy, liparites are classified as (1) granitic liparites or neva- 
(Jitcfij (2) rlu/o^ites, and (.'>) glassy liparites as ohfddi/m, pumice, pcarlitc, 
and 'plti'ltsfoHc. Of these only the felsitic and porphyritic variety rhyolite 
is now quarried. 



430 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

(4) LIPARITES OF THE VARIOUS STATES AND TERRITORIES. 

Near Mokelumne Hill, iu Calaveras County, Cal., rliyolite occurs in 
several different colors, and lias been quarried to some extent for use in 
the immediate vicinity. It is also abundant in Colorado, New Mexico, 
Nevada, Utah, and other of the Western States and Territories. 

The glassy variety of rliyolite called obsidian is very abundant in cer- 
tain parts of the West, and though as yet no attempt has been made to 
utilize the material there would seem no good reason for its not being 
used in small pieces for the finer kinds of decorative work. The rock, 
which is a natural glass formed by the rapid cooling of a molten mass, is 
of various colors, black, red, and greenish, and often beautifully spotted 
and streaked. From the Yellowstone National Park, Glass Butte, Or- 
egon, and other sources, the Museum has received specimens of red 
obsidian spotted and streaked with black wavy lines in a way that is 
highly ornamental. The stone occurs naturally in a badly jointed con- 
dition and could be obtained only in pieces of small size. Owing to its 
glassy fracture also it could be worked only with plain flat surfaces, 
but as it takes a high glass like polish, it would be very desirable for 
tops of small stands, paper-weights, and inlaid work. 

H.— THE SYENITES, TRACHYTES, AND PHONOLITES. 

(1) DEFINITION OF SYENITE. 

Under the name of Syenites are here included those rocks consisting 
essentially of orthoclase with or without one or more of the accessory 
minerals, mica, hornblende, or augite. They differ from granites only 
in the absence of quartz, and otherwise present a i)recisely parallel 
series. Thus we may have mica syenite (minette), hornblende syenite, 
augite syenite, etc.* 

(2) LOCALITIES OF SYENITE. 

At the present time syenites are but little quarried in this country, 
though there would seem to be no lack of material and of good (piality. 

In and about Portland, Me., there occur in the glacial drift many 
bowlders of a beautiful syenite, the exact source of whi(!h is not known 
to the author, but Avhich can not be far to the northward. The ro(;k 
consists mainly of bright lustrous gray orthoclase and coal-black horn- 
blende, with occasionally a little black mica. In texture it is not too 

* Formerly it was customary to call hy the :iame syenito a rock consisting of qnart z 
liornblendc, and orthoclase, or what is now called a hornhlcnde granite. The name 
takes its origin from Syene, Egyi)t, wliere a rock supjiosed to ansvrer this description 
was originally quarried. Investigation has, however, shown that the Syene rock eon- 
tains more mica than hornblende, and hence at best can not be chxssed as a true sye- 
nite even according to the old definition. According to recent lithologists the Syene 
rock is a hornblende mica granite, while true syenite, aa above stated, is a quartzless 
rock. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 431 

coarse, aud the coutrast of colors suck tbat one cau scarcely imagine 
a more beautiful stone for rock-faced work. It is very tough, and, to 
judge from the bowlders, is also very durable, and not at all liable to 
discoloration on exposure. 

Hawes* describes augite syenites as occurring in Jackson, Columbia, 
and on Little Ascuntney Mountain, in New Hampshire; also hornblende 
syenites as occurring at Red Hill and Moultonborough, Columbia, Sand- 
wich, Stark, and Albany, in the same State. Dr. Wadsworthf also 
mentions a syenite as occurring in eastern Massachusetts, where it oc- 
cupies a large proportion of the coast line between Salem and Man- 
chester. None of these are as yet <iuarried. 

Near Hot Springs, in Arkansas, there is quarried under the name of 
granite a tough gray rock of variable texture, consisting mainly of horn- 
blende and eheolite, aud which would therefore be classed as an eheolite 
syenite. Some portions of the rock, as shown by the large block in the 
Museum collection, arc fine-giained and homogeneous, while in others 
the eheolite crystals reach some 2 or 3 inches in length. The appear- 
ance of the stone is excellent, but portions of it contain a large amount 
or]>yrite and it needs to be selected with care if designed for exterior 
or highly ornamental work. 

A syenitic rock bearing abuiulant eheolite and fre(piently cancrinite 
and sottalite, and which must, therefore, also be classed as an eheolite sye- 
nite 0(;curs abundantly in the vicinity of Litchtield, Me., and specimens 
of the rock have found their way into the building-stone collections of 
the Museum. An examination of the rock does not, however, impress 
one particularly in its favor. Its durability is, to say the least, doubtful, 
and its varying texture and colors rather against it. 

(:?) THE TRACHYTES AND PHONOLITES. 

Under the name of trachytes are comprehended by Rosenbnsch those 
massive Tertiary and jiost Tertiary rocks consisting essentially of san- 
idin and hornblende, augite or black mica, and which may be regarded 
as the younger ecpiivalcnts ^)f the syenites and quart/ free jtorphyries. 

The average chemical composition is silica, 03.55; alumina, 18.0 ; iron 
oxide, G.15 ; lime, LOG; magnesia, 0.8S; specific gravity, 2,G5. 

In structure trachytes are rarely granular but usually possess a tine 
scaly or micro-felsitic groundraass, rendered ])or]»hyritic by the devel- 
opment of scatteiing crystals of sanidin, horid)lende, augite, or black 
mica. The texture is porous and possesses a characteristic roughness 
to the tou(;li ; Induce its name from the Greek word riur/n- rough. Tiie 
prevailing colors are gray, yellowish or reddish. 

Trachytes are volcanic rocks occurring in eruptive masses in dikes 
and in lava flows. They may be divided into hornblende, biotite, or 

*Cieo]. of New Hiiinpshin', Vol. iiJ, l';irf. i\ , )). '.'1*5. 
Kk'ol. Mag., May, IH-T), \>. '207. 



432 REPORT ON NATIONAL MIJSKIJM, 1S80. 

aiigite trachytes, according- as either of these accessory minerals pre- 
dominates. 

Phonolites differ from trachytes in carrying one or both of the min- 
erals nepheline or leucite in addition to the other constituents named. 
They bear the same relations then to the trachytes as do the elfeolite 
syenites to the syeintes proper. 

■ Neither trachytes nor phonolites are, so far as now known, common 
rocks in the United States. Zirkel * describes numerous trachytes 
from the areas covered by the Fortieth Parallel survey, and Caswell t de- 
scribes both trachytes and phonolites from the Black Hills, Dakota. 
Eecent in V estimations by Wadsworth | and Messrs. Hague and Iddings§ 
show, however, that the sui)posed trachytes of Zirkel were in large part 
if not altogether andesites, and it is very i^robable that similar tests 
applied to many other cases heretofore described would be productive 
of similar results. However this may be, the utility of the rocks in 
America is purely prospective. 

Their colors and textures are such that they can never be used for 
other purposes than rough construction, as is the case with the majority 
of the younger eruptives. 



I.— AUGITE (ENSTATITE, HYPERSTHENE) PLAGIOCLASE 

ROCKS. 

(1) DIABASE. 

(Diabase, from the Greek word oia[inatq, to pass over ; so called be- 
cause the rock passes by imperceptible gradations into diorite.) 

The diabases are entirely crystalline granular rocks, composed essen- 
tially of plagioclase feldspar and augite, with nearly always magnetite 
and frequently olivine. Geologically they are pre-Tertiary eruptive 
rocks, basic in composition, occurring in dikes,- intruded sheets, and 
lava flows. Their mode of occurrence is quite similar to that of basalt, 
from which they differ chiefly in date of eruption and the amount of 
alteration they have undergone. In structure they are as a rule mas- 
sive, but schistose varieties occur and more rarely spherulitic forms. 
The texture is as a rule fine, compact, and homogeneous, though some- 
times porphyritic or araygdaloidal. The colors are somber, varying 
from greenish through dark gray to nearly black, or sometimes black 
when freshly quarried, but becoming greenish on drying. || 

* Micro, Petrography, fortieth i)arallel. 

t Geol. Black Hills of Dakota. 

tProc. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., Vol. xxi, 1881, p. 243, aud Vol. xxii, 1883, p. 412. 

^ km. Jour. Sci., Vol. xxvii, 1884, p. 453. 

II Mr. J. P. Iddings suggests that the change in color from dark, bliio black, and 
greenish, as noticed in diabase of New Jersey, is due to the drying of the serpentine or 
chlorite, which results from the alteration of the inchidcMl olivine. (Am. Jour. Sci., 
May, 1886, p. 330.) 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 433 

Accordiuj^ to Ziikcl, the ;ivt!ray,o clicinicitl (;()iiii)().situ)ii of diabasi; is 
as follows : 

I'cr ociit. 

Silica 40. T)! 

Alumina 11.0.') 

Iron protoxide 1 1. 27 

Lime 8. Ml) 

Magnesia .^>. 28 

Potash 1.10 

Soda :5.H8 

Water 2.2;» 

Average specific gravity, 2.8, eciiial to a weiglit of ITo pounds jtcr 
cubic foot. 

lu classification two principal varieties of diabase are reiiogiiized, the 
distinction being founded ui^on the iireseuce or absence of tbe mineral 
olivine. We thus have (1) olivine diabase, or diabase with olivine, and 
(2) diabase proper, or diabase without olivine. 

Owing to its lack of definite rift, comi^act texture, and hardness, dia- 
base can, as a rule, be worked only with difficulty and usually at a cost 
considerably greater than that of granite. It is therefore not exten- 
sively quarried, though of late years it has come into more general use 
for paving puri)Oses, and still more recently for buUding and manu- 
mental work. Tlie green aniique porphyry or Marmor Jjacedmmonium 
viridc, formerly much used foi' ])avements and general inlaid decorative 
work in (Ireece and Kome, is, according to Belesse,* a diabase consisting 
of large greenish crystals of labradorite embedded in a fine compact 
ground mass of the Sfime feldsjtar, together with augiteand titanifcrous 
iron.' The (juarries from which the stone was taken aie stated by IluHt 
to be situated between Sparta and Marathon, in (Jreece. A stone of a 
similar character and closely resembling it in color and structure is 
abundant among the drift bowlders of eastern Massachusetts, but its 
exact derivation is unknown. 

In the eastern United States the dikes of diabase are frequently as- 
so(;iated with deposits of red or brown Triassic sandstoiu?, whi(;h are also 
extensively quarried, as will be noticed j'urther on. Concerning these 
dikes Professor Dana writes: | 

"It is remarkable that these fractures (through which llu' dial)ase 
was forced to the surface) should have taken place in great numbers 
just where the Triassic beds exist, and only s[)aringly east or west of 
them ; and also that the igneous rock should be essentially the sam(», 
throughout the thousands of miles from Nova Scotia to North Carolina. 
The igneous and aqueous rocks (sandstone) are so associated that tlicy 
necessarily come into the same history. Mount Tom and Moiml llol 
yoke, of INlassachusetts, are examples of these tiaj) ridges; aisn I'^ast 
Kock and West Ifock, near New ilaven, and the Hanging Hills, near 

*Annal8 de Mines, p. 25(i. 
tO/). ('if., p. 73. 

t Manual of Geology, third cdilioii, p. 417. 
IT. Mis. 170, ])t. 2 28 



434 REPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188(). 

Meriden, in Connecticut; the ralisndes along- tlic Hudson Tiiver, in New 
York ; Bergen Hill and otlier elevations in New Jersey. 

" In Nova Scotia trap ridges skirt the whole red-sandstone region and 
face directly the Bay of Fundy ; Cape Blomidon, noted for its zeolitic 
minerals, lies at its northern extremity on the Bay of Mines. 

" In Connecticut the ridges and dikes are extremely numerous, show- 
ing a vast amount of igneous action. * * * They commence near 
Long Island Sound, at New Haven, where they form some bold emi- 
nences, and extend through the State and nearly to the northern bound- 
ary of Massachusetts. Mounts Ilolyoke and Tom are in the system. 
The general course is parallel to that of the Green Mountains. 

"Although the greater part of the dikes is confined to the sandstone 
regions, there are a few outside, intersecting the crystalline rocks and 
following the same direction, and i^art, at least, of the same system. 

"Even the little Southbury Triassic region, lying isolated in western 
Connecticut, has a large number of trap ridges, and such a group of 
them as occurs now^here else in New England outside of the Triassic. 
Their direction and x>ositious in overlapping series are the same as in 
the Connecticut valley. 

"The trap usually forms hills with a bold columnar or front and slop- 
ing back. When nearly north and south in direction the bold front is to 
the westward in the Connecticut Valley, and to the eastward in New 
Jersey. It has come up through tissures in the sandstone, which varied 
irom a few inches to 300 fet^t or more in breadtli. In many cases it has 
made its way out by opening the layers of sandstone, and in such cases 
it stands with a bold front, facing in the direction toward which it thus 
ascended." 

Connecticut. — The extensive diabase outcrops noted above as occurring 
at East and West Rocks, north of New Haven in this State, are (piarried 
ibr foundation walls and for leaving purposes in the near vicinity. The 
rock is too dull in color for oi'uamental work. 

Maine. — Diabase is quarried at three localities in this State, Addison, 
Vinalhaven, and Tenant's Harbor. At Addison the rock occurs in ex- 
tensive outcrops close by the water's edge. Single blocks 00 by 10 by 
20 feet have been moved in the quarries, and natural blocks 00 by 10 by 
J 5 feet occur. The chief defects in the stone are said to be the so-called 
" knots," Avhich consist of irregular patches of coarse feldspar and dark 
crystals of hornblende. There are also occasional seams, causijig the 
rock to split unfavorably. The rock is moderately tine grained, very 
dark gray, sometimes almost black or spotted bla(;k and white on a 
polished surface and of a tine ai^pearance. It has been used in the walls 
inclosing the Capitol grounds at Washington, in the construction of a 
bank at Montreal, and is quite generally used for monuments in Boston, 
New York, Brooklyn, Washington, Montreal, and (JuebcM;. The Vinal 
haven diabase is less extensively worked on account, of its hardness 
It is of fluer grain than the Addison stone and uniformly dark-gray^ 



imiLDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 43.1 

nearly bhick, in color. It is used to some extent for building material 
and also in cemetery work. The Tenant's Harbor (Saint George, Knox 
County) stone closely resembles that of Addison, and is used for sim- 
ilar purposes. These are all most excellent stones, and it is a matter 
for congratulation that they are being so extensively introduced, and, 
to some extent, replacing the marbles in monumental work. The cost 
of working is, owing to their compact structure, somewhat greater than 
that of granite, but the results fully justify the increased outlay. All 
the above, it should be noted, are known commercially as " black gran- 
ite."* 

Massachusetts. — Diabase is quarried for foundation walls, general con- 
structive purposes, and monumental work at Medford and Somerville 
iu this State. Samples received from these localities are, however, 
coarser, lighter in color, and much inferior in point of beauty to those 
just described. 

Nciv Jersey. — The extensive outcrops of diabase, or " trap-rock," 
known as the Palisades of the Hudson Eiver in northeastern New Jersey 
furnish an inexhaustible su^^ply of this material, and which is at present 
quite extensively quarried about Guttenberg, Weehawken, West New 
York, and southward along the Palisades a.s far as Montgomery ave- 
nue in Jersey City.t The rock is used chiefly' for paving, and the quar- 
ries are small affairs worked by gangs of from two to five men. Two 
sizes of blocks are prepared. The larger, which are known as speciQca- 
tion blocks, are 4 by 8 or 10 inches on the head and 7 to 8 inches deep. 
The second size, which are called square blocks, are 5 to 6 inches square 
and G or 7 inches deep. The specification blocks bring about $30 per 
thousand in the market, and the square only about $20 per thousand. 
It is estimated that some 4,000,000 of the specification and 1,000,000 of 
the square blocks were quarried in 1887, valued at $140,000. 

There are three jirincipal grades of the rock quarried. A fine-grained 
variety at Mount Pleasant, a rocky hill north of the Pennsylvania 

Railroad ; a light-gray variety at Pergen Cut, south of the railroad ; 

■ — — ■ — — — ■ — m 

* It .should bo roiiiarketl that all of these diabases differ radically in structure and 
composition from any othera hero mentioned, and deserve a more thorough and 
careful study than they liavo yet received. All contain a rhombic pyroxene pleo- 
chroic iu retl, green, and brown colors, and which is evidently hypcrsthene, while 
certain sections of the Addison rock show a pyroxenic constituent carrying an abun- 
dance of the rhombic inclosures so characteristic of entstatito. Both the Addison 
and Vinalhaven rocks were in the collection and marked as diabase on my assuming 
charge, and as such I considcu'ed them in my paper on the Maine building stones 
(Proc. Nat. Mus., Vol. vi, 188o). The Tenant's Harbor rock is presumably the on(^ 
described as olivine diabase by Watlsworth and Dickerson (Proc. Bos. Soc. Nat. llist., 
Mar., 1884, p. 28). 

tTho Hudson Kiver Palisade rock is called greenstone by Mahan (Civil Engineer- 
ing, p. 3), who states that it is composed of hornbhnide and common and compact 
feldspar. This is obviously an error. The rock contains neither hornbleiule nor 
''common" (orthoclaso) feldspar, but is wholly coiuposod of augito and iilagioelaso 
feldspar willi a few minute accessories, :i,s maguclilc an<l apatite. 



436 REPORT ON NATIONAL MTTRETIM, 1886. 

and a dark, almost black, variety at Weeliawken and West Kew York. 
Other quarries of this rock are worked at Orange Mountain, Snake 
Hill, Iludsou County, and at Morris Hill in Paterson. In the western 
part of the State the outcrops are not so extensive, but quarries are 
worked at Eocky Hill, near Titusville, Smith's Hill, and near Lambert- 
ville. At Eock Church, 4 miles from Lambertville, the rock is quar- 
ried and used for monumental work as well as for general building pur. 
poses, being put upon the market under the name of black granite. The 
rock from the Palisade quarries has also been quite extensively used 
in and about Jersey City for building purposes. St. Patrick's Cathe- 
dral, and the Hudson County Court House, as well as many private 
buildings, are of this stone, but the effect as a whole is not pleasing, ow- 
ing to the somber colors of the material. Employed in connection with 
brick or lighter stone, to give variety and contrast, the effect is admir- 
able. 

The finely broken stone is also used very extensively for railroad 
ballast and road-making. Several of the quarries near Orange Mount- 
ain have machines for breaking ui^ the stone for this purpose.* 

Pennsylvania, — The principal quarries of diabase in this State are at 
Collins Station, Lancaster County, and near York Haven, York County. 
At the latter place the face of the quarry is about 70 feet in height. 
The rock lies in huge natural blocks sometimes weig-hing hundreds of 
tons and having curved outlines giving them a sort of oval shape. 
Stone from this quarry is used only by the Northern Central Eailroad 
in the construction of bridges, culverts, etc. 

At Collins Station diabase is more extensively quarried than at any 
other locality in the State. The stone is used for all manner of build- 
ing purposes and monumental work. The foundation of the new Har- 
risburg postoftice and the soldiers' monument in this city are from 
this material. 

In the vicinity of Gettysburgh diabase has been quite extensively 
quarried from bowlders, and has been used for head-stones in the na- 
tional cemetery at this place. 

Virginia. — As in the States to the east and north, the Triassic beds 
of Virginia are cut by large dikes of " trap " or diabase, and which in 
some cases are capable of affording excellent material for leaving blocks 
and general building and ornamental work. So far as the author is 
aware quarries have been opened upon these dikes in but two localities, 
at Cedar Eun, near Catlett's Station on the- Virginia Midland Eailroad, 
and near Goose Creek, about 3 miles east of Leesburgh, in Loudoun 
County. Specimens of these rocks which we have examined represent 
the coarser varieties of our Mesozoic diabase, are of a dark gray color, 
very strong, and apparently durable. That from Goose Creek has been 
found to stand a j^ressure of 23,000 pounds per square inch, and, as the 
author has observed, undergoes no change on an exposure ol' twenty- 

* See Anil. Rep. State Ocnloii-ist of New .lersey 18SI, pp. ()0-():>. 



liUILDlNG AND ()i:.N AMHNTAL STONKS. 437 

five years other tluin a> slight and in no way objeciioiiable (hnkeiiiiij;- of 
coU)r. Neither stoiic has been used as yet for other than paving pur- 
l)oses and bridge abutments, though they are apparently well adapted 
to all kinds of work for which their color and hardness qualify them. 

(2) GABBRO. 

The rock gubbro ditfers from diabase mainly iu containiug the foliated 
I)yroxeue diallage iu place of augite. It is not at present quarried to 
any extent iu this countr}', though for no apparent reason other than 
that it is difficult to work. 

Very extensive outcrops of a dark gray, almost black gabbro of 
medium fiueuess of texture occur in the immediate vicinity of Balti- 
more, Md., but which have been quarried only for purposes of rough 
construction close at hand. The rock is popularly known as "nigger- 
head" owing to its hardness, dark color, and its occurrence in rounded 
bowlders on the surface.* 

At Rice's Point, near Duluth, Minn., there occurs an inexhaustible 
supply of ii coarse gabbro, which has been studied and described by 
Professor Winchell.t The feldspar of the rock, which is labradorite, 
acconling to the authority quoted, sometimes prevails as at Beaver Bay, 
in crystals one-half to three-fourths of an inch across, and to the almost 
entire exclusion of other constituents. In this form the rock varies from 
lavender blue or bluish gray to light green, and acquires a beautiful 
surface and polish, and is considered as constituting a vahuible material 
for ornamental slabs and columns. The typical gabbro of t'lie region is 
of a dark blue-gray color, and "has been employed in a tew buildings 
at Duluth, both in cut trimmings and for rough walfts," It has also 
been used for monuments and for bases, to which it is especially adapted, 
being cut under the chisel and polished more easily than auy of the 
crystalline rocks that contain quartz. The stone is known popularly 
as " Duluth granite." The same kind of rock occurs at Taylor's Falls, 
but is little used, though favorably situated for quarrying and trans- 
porting. 

A rock closely allied to the gabbros and diabases is the so-called 
norite, which consists essentially of the minerals hypersthene and a 
plagioclase feldspar. The only rocks of this nature now regularly 
quarried are at Keeseville, N. Y,, and Vergennes, Vt. The first is 
known commercially as "An Sable granite," and the second as "Labra- 
dorite granite." Both are coarse-grained, dark-gray rocks, much resem- 
bling the darker varieties of the (^uincy granites, from which, however, 
they differ radically in mineral composition. They take a high lustrous 
polish, frequently show a beautiful bright bluish iridescence, and are 



* This is tli(3 rock the iiitcrcwtinj; ])()UujL;raphit;;il f<'a(urc8 of which have hitoly been 
made known by ])r. Williams, of Johns Hopkins University. See Bull. U. tt. Geol. 
yiirvey, No. 28. 

tGcoI. of JNliuu., Vol. I, pp. 148-9. 



438 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

admirably adapted for polished columns, pilasters, and other decorative 
work. The lasth)g power of the norites, when polished, is yet to be 
ascertained. After an exposure of untold years in the quarry bed the 
surface has turned white. No data are obtainable for calculating their 
lasting qualities in the finished structure. 

(3) MELAPHYR. 

The melaphyrs, as defined by Eosenbusch,* are massive eruptive 
rocks, consisting of plagioclase, augite, and olivine, with free iron oxides 
and an amorj)hous or "i:)orphyry" base. They are thus of the same 
mineral comiwsition as the basalts and olivine diabases, but differ struct- 
urally, and belong in great part to the Carboniferous and older Permian 
formations. Although very abundantin many parts of the United States, 
they are scarcely at all quarried owing to their dull colors and jioor 
working qualities. 

In the Brighton district of Boston, but a few miles out of the city 
proper, and in other localities in the vicinity, there occur small outcrops 
of a greenish or sometimes purplish melaphyr, or " amygdaloid," the 
lithological nature of which was, I believe, first correctly stated by 
E. II. Benton.f The prevailing color of the rock is greenish, often 
amygdaloidal, the amygdules being composed often of cpidote, thus 
spotting the surface with greenish-yellow blotches. The rock is greatly 
altered, only the feldspars of the original constituents remaining now 
recognizable, while chlorite, quartz, calcite, epidote, and several other 
minerals occur as secondary products. The rock is nevertheless very 
lirm, compact, and durable, and is being quarried to some extent for 
rough work. It would seem fitted for a yet wider architectural appli- 
cation. 

(4) BASALT. 

This rock diflers from diabase only in point of geological age, be- 
ing a product of post-Tertiary eruptions. It is, as a rule, less perfectly 
crystalline, still retaining portions of its glassy magma, and the surfaces 
of the flows are often less compact owing to their having been exposed 
to atmospheric agencies for a shorter period, and consequently having 
suffered less erosion. Owing in great part to the fact that basalts occur 
in this country only in the western and more recently settled portions, 
as do also the andesites and rhyolites, they have been heretofore but 
little utilized. There would seem, however, no reason for excluding the 
rock from the list of available building materials in those regions where 
it occurs in such form as to be accessible. At Petaluma, Bridgeport, and 
other places around the bay of San Francisco there lie immense sheets 
of this rock, but which are worked now only for paving materials. 
Like the andesites and rhyolites the basalts will not polish, and their 
colors are such as to exclude them from all forms of interior decorative 
work. 

* Mik. Physiog. der Massigen Gesteine, p. 392. 
t Proc. Bos, Soc, Vol. xx, p. 41G. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONIOS. 439 



K.— AMPIllBOLE PLAGIOCLASE KOCKS (TKAP AND (UIEION. 

STONE IN rAliT). 

(1) DIOKITES. 

Diorite from the Greek word ocop::;-:cu, to distinguisli. 

Diorites are entirely crystalline granular rocks coni{)osed essentially 
of plngio(;lase and liornblende. 

They are pre-Terliary eruptive rocks occurring mostly in dikes and 
intrusive sheets and basic in composition, containing only from 50 to 
54 i)er cent, of silica. In structure tliey are massive. The individual 
crystals composing the rock are sometimes grouped in globnhir aggre- 
gations forming the so-called orbicular diorite or laujcl diorite. The 
texture is as a rule comi)act, fine, and homogeneous, though sometimes 
porphyritic. The connnon colors are daik gray or green. iVccording 
to Zirkel the average composition is: 

I'd- Cl'lltr. 

Silica IS. no to GO. 88 

Aluuiiua IT). 72 to iJ:i. 1 ii 

Protoxide of iron (>. LMi lo 1 1. ;» j 

Lime r>. 47 to 7. '.»'.) 

JMagnesiii 0. M to 11.70 

Potixsli 1.0.") to :;. 70 

Soda 2. 20 to r,. 21 

Water 0.1)0 to l.'JO 

In classilication two i)rinci[)al varities are recognized, miea- diorite or 
diorite in wliieh black mica is present in excess of the hornblende, ;iiid 
hornblende diorite or diorite projjcr. The presence of (juartz gives rise 
to the variety (juartz diorite. The name tonalite has been a[)plie(l by 
YoMi IJath to a (juartz diorite containing the feldsi)ar audesite and 
very rich in black mica and which occurs in the soutliei'u Alps. 

Diorites are commonly known by the names trap and greenstone, as 
are also the diabases. 

These rocks are as a rule exceeding compact and strong, but are 
scarcely at all used for building ])ui'i)Oses owing to their lack of rift and 
poor working <iualities in general. Their somber colors are also a draw- 
back to any form of architectural display. In England diorites are 
stated by Ilanenschild* to be largely used for road materials, while the 
celebrated kugel diorite or napoleonite of Corsica has been abundantly 
utilized through Italy for interior decorative work. 

Por[)h3'ritic diorites, or ])orphyrites, maybe said to Ix'ar I lie sau)e le- 
lation to true diorites as do the (juartz ])orphyrics to granites. That is, 
they consist of a (;oini)act felsitic base in which hornblende or felds[)ar 
is i)orphyritically devel()j)ed. The celebralcd J'cd f^gyptian porphyry 
or "llosso ATitico" is a ])orphyrite as shown l)y Dehisse.f The source 
of this rock is stated by this authority to be tlu; Dokhan iMonidains, 

* Katocliisimin der |}atimaLerinli(!ii, p. 81. 
i Bull. Soc. Gcol. do Friiucc, ISlD-jO, \\. 524. 



440 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886, 

about 25 miles from the Eed Sea and 85 miles from ancient Captos 
(now called Kj^pt). Eocks of this class, though in no way comparable 
from the standpoint of beauty", have been described by Hawes* as oc- 
curring in New Hampshire at Campton Falls, North Lisbon, Dixville, 
and Dixville Notch ; a mica diorite is also described as occurring at 
Stewartstown. None of these are put to any practical use. A dark 
gray granitic appearing diorite of variable texture occurs near Read- 
ing, Berks County, Pa., which may answer for rough construction. It 
is not a handsome stone, and is, moreover, hard to work. 

The Museum collections contain a cube of a compact light greenish 
gray diorite, carrying quite an amount of greenish mica and plentifully 
besprinkled with white pori^hyritic feldspars from near El Paso, Tex. 
This cuts to a sharp edge and acquires a good surface and iwlish. It 
appears like a good stone for ordinary purposes of construction. 

A somewhat similar stone is found near Monarch, Chaffee County, 
Colorado. 

A quartz diorite of a coarse granitic structure is found and quarried 
at liocklin. Placer County, Cal. The stone resembles granite in gen- 
eral appearance and works with eciual facility. 

(2) THE ANDESITES. 

Under the name of audesites is included a group of volcanic rocks of 
Tertiary and post-Tertiary age, and consisting essentially of a triclinic 
feldspar and hornblende, augite, or black mica. 

In structure the andesites are rarely entirely crystalline, but usually 
present a fine densely microlitic or partly glassy groundmass. Accord- 
ing as they vary in composition four principal varieties are recognized: 
(1) Quartz andesite (Dacite) or andesite in which (juartz is a prominent 
ingredient; (2) hornblende andesite; (3) augite andesite, and (4) mica 
andesite, each taking its name according as hornblende, augite, or mica 
is the principal accessory mineral. Ilyperstheue andesite, or andesite 
in which the mineral hyiiersthene is a leading constituent, is also com- 
mon in many of the Western States and Territories. 

The andesites are as yet but little used for structural j)urposes, and 
this largely for the same reasons as were given in the chapter on Lii)a- 
rites. Like the rhyolites they will not polish and are in no way suited 
for decorative work. Although very abundant throughout many of the 
Western States and Territories they have been quarried in an itinerant 
way only at lieno and Virginia City, Nev. The rock from the latter 
source is said to quarry easily and cut well when first taken out, and 
to harden on exposure. The Keno andesite has been used in the con- 
struction of the prison and a few stores at that place. 

* Geol. of New Hampshire, Vol. ni„ Part iv, p. 160. 



BUILDING AND OKNAMENTAL S lONES. 441 

L.— SCHISTOSE, OR FOLIATED KOOKS. 

(1) THE GNEISSES. 

The gneisses, as already noted, have essentially tlie same composi- 
tion as do the granites, from which they differ mainly in their foliated 
or schistose structnre. On account of this schistosity the rocks split 
in such a way as to give parallel flat surfaces, which render the stone 
servicable in the construction of rough walls and for street curbing. 
Tliis structure, which is caused mainly by the arrangement of the mica 
and other minerals in parallel layers, is, however, a drawback to the 
uniform working of the stones, and hence they are more limited in their 
application than are the granites. Tliese rocks are frequently called 
by quarrymen stratified or bastard granites. The name f/neiss, it should 
be stated, is of German origin, and sliould be pronounced as though 
spelled nls, never as nces. For reasons alrea<ly given the gneisses have 
been included under the chapter on granites in the present work. 

(t>) THE SCHISTS. 

JNIica schist is a rock that consists essentially of quartz and mica, ft 
usually possesses a distinct schistose structure, due to the parallel ar- 
rangement of these minerals, as was noted in the gneiss, from which it 
may be said to difler only in its lack of feldspar. It is a rock which is 
supposed to have been formed by the deposition and subsequent crystal- 
lizntiou of sediments, and consequently the structure of these minerals 
and their arrangement are markedly stratiiied. These pecnliarities of 
the schists are not such as to render them favorites for purposes of fine 
construction. They are, however, in most instances broken out from 
the ledges with comparative ease, and for rough construction, such as 
loundations and bridges, as well as for llagging, they are extensively 
employed. 

The mica of the schists nuiy be either nuiscovite orbiotite,or both ; in 
short, the schists may be characterized by one or more of the same acces- 
sories as are the granites and gneisses, and we may have just as many 
varieties. Through a diminution in the amount of mica these rocks pass 
into quartz schists, and by an increase in the amount of feldspar into 
gneisses. The relative amounts of quartz and mica in the schists varies 
almost indefinitely, the percentage of silica, which is largely depend- 
ent upon the amount of quartz, varying from 40 to 80 per cent. The 
finer grained, more compact varieties of mica schist make very fair build- 
ing material, but the coarser and more schistose varieties are not at all 
desirable, especially if the mica ba biotite and it occurs in great abun- 
dance. 

In accessory minerals the schists are parti(ndarly rich. Some of the 
more common of these are garnet, feldspar, epidote, cyanite, hornblende, 



442 REPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

chlorite, talc, staurolite, magnetite, i)yrite, tourmaliue, aud rutile. 
Through an increase in the amount of hornblende, chlorite, or talc, the 
rock passes into hornblende, chlorite, or talc schist. 

Owing to their schistose structure and poor working qualities the 
schists are but little used for architectural purposes, as already noted. 
One of the most important of these rocks at present worked in this 
country is the biotite schist near Washington, D. C. This is quite ex- 
tensively quarried, though in a crude and itinerant manner, both in the 
District of Columbia and on the opposite side of the Potomac Eiver, in 
Virginia. The rock is as a rule fine grained and compact, and of a blue- 
gray color, whence its popular name of "Potomac bluestone." It is at 
times scarcely at all schistose, and contains a very considerable i)ropor- 
tion of feldspar, thus approaching gneiss in composition. Several im- 
l^ortant structures have been made of this stone, including George- 
town College and one or two churches. It can be worked, however, 
with great difficulty, and it is only by taking advantage of the natural 
joint faces that it can be utilized with any degree of economy. Pyrite 
is very abundant iu certain jiortions of the rock, and shows its utter 
unreliability by retaining its bright, brassy luster unchanged in some 
cases for many years, while in others it oxides almost immediately.* 

In Cape Elizabeth, Maine, near Portland, there occurs a fine-grained 
talcose schist which is peculiar for the readiness with which it breaks 
out into jointed blocks of about the right dimensions for building- 
By taking adv^antage of this jointing several churches and other build- 
ings in Portland have been erected and present a respectable appear- 
ance, though through the oxidation of the included pyrite the walls are 
stained almost beyond recognition. These joints are as sharp and clean 
as though cut with a knife, and are usually indistinguishable in tlie 
<iuarr3% having been recemented by calcite. A few blows from a ham- 
mer on the end of a block will, however, almost always cause joints to 
open, and often in very unexpected places. 

In the town of Bolton, Worcester County, Mass., there occurs a mica 
schist that has been quarried for many years to furnish flagging ma- 
terials for Hartford and other New England cities. The rock is fine 
grained, distinctly schistose, and evenly laminated 5 it therefore splits 
out readily into thin plates eminently suited for the purposes to which 
it is applied. 

* It is possible that both ordinary pyrite and the gray variety, marcasite, are present 
in these rocks, and that it is the latter mineral that so readily oxidizes, while the py- 
rite remains unchanged. 



Report of National Museum, 1886.— Merri 



Plate IX. 




BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 443 

M.— FEAGMENTAL ROCKS. 

(1) SANDSTONES, BRECCIAS, AND CONGLOMEKATES. 

(a) Composition axd Oiugin. 

Saudstoues are comj)osed of rounded and angular grains of >sand so 
cemented and compacted as to form a solid rock. The cementing ma- 
terial may be either silica, carbonate of lime, an iron oxide, or clayey 
matter. Upon the character of this cementing material, more perhaps 
than upon the character of the grains themselves, is dejiendent the 
color of the rock and its adaptability for architectural purposes. If 
silica alone is present the rock is light colored aiid frequently so in- 
tensely hard that it can be worked only with great dilBculty. Such 
are among the most durable of all rocks, but their light colors and 
poor working qualities are something of a drawback to their extensive 
use. The cutting of such stones often subjects the workmen to serious 
inconvenience on account of the very fine and sharp dust or jwwder 
nuide by the tools, and which is so light as to remain suspended for 
some time in the air. The hard Potsdam sandstones of New York 
State have been the subject of complaint on this score. If the cement 
is comi)osed largely of iron oxides the stone is red or brownish in color 
and usually not too hard to work readily.* When the cementing ma- 
terial is carbonate of lime the stone is light colored or gray, soft, and 
easy to work. As a rule such stone do not weather so well as those 
with either the siliceous or ferruginous cement, owing to the ready 
solubility of the lime in the water of slightly acidulated rains; the 
siliceous grains become loosened and the rock disintegrates. The 
clayey cement is niore objectionable than any yet mentioned, since it 
readily absorbs water and renders the stone more liable to injury by 
frost. Many sandstones contain little if any cement, but owe their 
tenacity simply to the pressure to which they were subjected at the 
time of their consolidation. Such stones are generally of a grayish hue, 
easy to work, and if the amount of cohesion be sufhcieutly great, are 
very durable. The finer varieties of these stones, such as the Euclid 
" bluestone" and "Berea grits," are utilized in the manufacture of grind- 
stones and whet stones. Since they contain little cementing material 
they do not become j)olished when exposed to wear, but crumble slowly 
away, presenting always fresh, sharp surfaces to be acted upon. In cer- 
tain of our Potsdam sandstones the siliceous cement is found to have 
so arranged itself with relation to the grains of sand as to practically 
convert it into a crystalline rock or quartzite. This has already been 
referred to in the chapter on microscopic structure. 

* J alien states that iii the Tertiary sandstones of tbo Appalachian border the ferni- 
f^inous cement is largely turgito; in tlio Triassic and Carboniforous sandstones it is 
lar<^»vly linionite, and in tbo Potsdam sandstones of Lake Champlain and tbo sonllKirii 
shore of Lake Sui)erior it is largely hematite. (Proc. A. A. A. S,, Vol. xxviii, 1879, 
p. 408.) 



444 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, I88(i. 

Sandstones are not in all cases composed wholly of quartz grains, 
but frequently contain a variety of luiuerals. The brown Triassic sand- 
stones of Connecticut, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania are found, on 
microscopic and chemical examination, to contain one or more kinds of 
feldspar and also mica (see Fig. G, Plate ii), having, in fact, nearly the 
same composition as a granite or gneiss, from which they were doubtless 
originally derived. According to Dr. P. Schweitzer,* a fine-grained 
sandstone from the so-called Palisade range in Kew Jersey contains from 
30 to GO per cent, of the feldspar albite. That quarried at Newark, in 
the same State, contains, according to his analysis, albite, .50.4G per 
cent. ; quartz, 45.49 per cent. ; soluble silica, .30 per cent.; bases solu- 
ble in hydrochloric acid, 2.19 per cent., and water, 1.14 per cent. Iron 
l)yrites is a common ingredient of many sandstones. Unless quite 
abundant the ciiief danger to be apprehended from the use of such 
stone is the change of color it is liable to undergo on exposure through 
its oxidation. 

Sandstones are of a great variety of colors; light gray (almost white), 
gray, butf, drab or blue, light brown, brown, pink, and red are common 
varieties, and, as already stated, the color is largely due to the iron 
contained by them. According to Mr. G. Mawt the red and brownish- 
red colors are due to the presence of iron in the anhydrous sesquiox- 
ide state, the yellow color to iron in the hydrous sesquioxide state, and 
the blue and gray tints to the carbonate or the protoxide of iron. It is 
also stated that the blue color is sometimes caused by finely-dissemi- 
nated iron pyrites, and rarely by an iron phosphate.t (See page 30G.) 

Sandstones vary in texture from almost impalpably fine-grained 
stones to those in which the individual grains are several inches in 
diameter. These coarser varieties are called <-<»ujlomeyates, or, if the 
grains are angular instead of r(iunded, breccias. Neither of these varie- 
ties are at present quarried in this country to any great extent, though 
in foreign countries calcareous breccias form some of the most beautiful 
marbles. 

All sandstones, when freshly quarried, are found to contain a vari- 
able amount of water, which renders them soft and more easily worked, 
but at the same time peculiarly liable to injury by freezing. So pro- 
nounced is this character that many quarries in the northern regions 
can be worked only in the summer months, as during the cold season 
the freshly quarried material would freeze, burst, and become entirely 
ruined. It is customary also for dealers to refuse to assume any risks of 
injury from freezing to which such stone may be liable after shipment. 
After the evaporation of this "quarry water," as it is called, the stone 
is found, to be considerably harder, and hence more difficult to work. 
This hardening process is explained by Newberry and others by the 

* Anierican Chomist, July, 1671, p. 23. 

tQnar. .Tour. (Jeol. Soc. of Eoinioii, xxiv, p. M55. 

t Notes on Buildiug Coustructiou, Part ill, j). 35. 



BUTLDINfJ AND ORNAMKNTAL STONKR. 445 

theory that the quarry wator hoUls in solution certain ol" the cementinj^ 
materials, as has been already uoted (p. 339). 

{b) Varieties of Sandstones. 

Many varieties of sandstones are popularly recognized, the distinc- 
tions being founded upon their composition, structure, the character of 
the cementing material, or their working qualities. ArJioseia a sand- 
stone composed of disintegrated granite. FernujinouH, .siliccotis, and 
calcareous sandstones are those in which these substances form the ce- 
menting nmterial. Argillaceons sandstones contain clay, which can 
easily be recognized by its odor when breathed upon. FUtf/sfonr is a 
sandstone that splits readily into Ihin sheets suitable for tlagging ; the 
same term is ai)plied to other rocks, as the schists and slates, which 
serve a similar puri>ose. Frcfslones are so called because they work 
freely in any direction, their bedding or grain not being stiongly enough 
marked to in any way interfere with this property, (iraijwarlce is a com- 
pact sandstone composed of rounded grains or fragments of quartz, 
feldspar, slate, and other minerals, cemented by an argillaceous, calca- 
reous, or feldspatliic paste. This term is no longer in g<Mieral use. 
Qii(irf.:lies result from the induration of san<lsl()nes, a lesult brought 
about either by pressure or, more commonly, by the deposition of sili(;a 
between the granules. 

Sandstones occur among rocks of all ages, from (he Archaean down to 
the most recent ; none are, however, at present used to any great extent 
for building purposes in this country that are of later origin than Trias- 
si<!, or possibly Cretaceous. In the list of natural building materials 
of the United States sandstone ranks third in iin])ortauce ; the census 
returns for 1880 showing a product of 21,770,930 cubic feet, valued at 
$4,780,391. 

(c) Sandstones op the Various States ani> Territories. 

Alabama. — On the line of the Alabama Great Southern Hallway, sonn^ 
GO or 100 miles from Chattanooga, T(Min., tlierci occurs a yellow sand- 
stone that is sufliciently soft when iirst quari ied to be cut with an a\, 
and which hardens sufliciently on exposure to be very durable in that 
climate. Samples of this stone received from De Jvalb County are o( 
decidedly inferior (juality. 

Ari::ona. — There is at present little demand for building stone in this 
Territory, and conse(iuently but little is known regarding its available 
material. From Yavapai County, on the line of the Atlantic and Pa- 
cific; Railroad, we have received a block (No. 35571) of tine grained, com- 
pact, light-pink sandstone, that from its warm and j)leasing color and 
easy working <]ualities would be eagerly sought by Eastern buihlers 
were it more accessible. So far as we ai-e informed, it is not at i)resent 
cpiarried to any extent. 

Arl'ansas. — IJrown massive^ "freestone" that will make a good l)uild 
ing stone is stated by Owen* to occur in \'an lUiren County. 
''Gcol. of Arkansas, 1858, p. 75. 



446 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886, 

California. — Arouud the Bay of San Francisco there occur sandstones 
of a considerable variety of colors which are beginning to come into use 
to some extent. The i^revailing colors here are brownish and gray. 
On Angel Island, in Marin County, there occurs a fine sandstone of a 
greenish-gray color, which has been used in the Bank of California 
building, and others of a lighter shade are found in various i)arts of 
Alameda County. A few miles south of San Jose, Santa Clara County, 
there are also inexhaustible sui^plies of liglit gray and buft" stone, but 
which are at present worked only in a small way, Near Cordelia, So- 
lano County, there occurs a coarse, dark-gray volcanic tuif, that can, 
perhaps, be utilized for rough construction should occasion demand. 

Colorado. — This State contains a variety of sandstones, of good qual- 
ity, but which, owing to lack of transportation facilities and the thinly 
settled condition of the country, are as yet in little demand. Near Fort 
Collins, in Larimer County, a fine light-gray stone occurs which is ex- 
cellent for flagging and foundations, but contains too much pyrite for 
fine building r)urposes. At Coal Creek, in Fremont County, is also a 
fine grayish or bulf stone closely resembling that of Berea, Ohio. As 
seen by the writer in the stone-yards of Denver, this is a most excellent 
material, being free from flaws, of good color, and cutting to a sliarj) 
edge. It is stated that it occurs in inexhaustible quantities and is 
obtainable in blocks of large size. At Glencoe, above Golden, in Jefier- 
son County, there occurs a deep salmon-red stone of a beautiful warm 
and lively hue. It is said to work with considerable diificulty, but 
is much sought on account of its color. Its principal market is now 
Chicago, but it is a matter of regret that it can not be introduced into 
our eastern markets. Near Morrison, in the same county, there occur 
extensive beds of red and nearly white sandstone. Tlie white is not 
considered desirable, but the red is much sought for trimming pur- 
poses. It is stated to absorb water readily, and hence to be peculiarly 
liable to damage from frost. The light-colored stone used in the con- 
struction of the court-house at Denver was obtained from Cretaceous 
beds near Caiion City. Trinidad, Las Animas County, also furnishes 
a good sandstone, which is used in Denver, and another important stone 
of good quality is brought from Amargo, in Rio Arribo County, across 
the line in New Mexico. 

Connecticut. — As already noted (ante, p. 289) the first quarries of sand- 
stone to be systematically worked in this country were those located 
in the now well-known Triassic beds at Portland and Middletown in this 
State. The area of the Triassic deposit in Now England as given by 
Dana* extends from New Haven on Long Island Sound to northern 

* Manual of Geology, p. 404. The entire area of the Triassic Banilstoncs in the 
United States as given by this authority is divided into three parts : (1) the Connec- 
ticut area as given above ; (2) the Palisade area, commencing along the west side of 
the Hudson River in the southeast corner of New York, near Piermont, and stretch- 
ing southwestward, through Pennsylvania, as far as Orange County, Va., about IJaO 
miles long ; and (3) the North Carolina area, commencing near the Virginia line and 
extending through North Carolina over the Deep River region, 120 miles long. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 447 

Massachusetts, having a length of 110 miles and an average width of 
20 miles. The stone is at present quarried only at Portland, Middlesex 
County, East Haven, New Haven County, and Manchester, Hartford 
County; though small quarries have been worked from time to time to 
furnish stone for local consumi^tion at East Windsor, Hayden's Station, 
Suffield, Newington, Earmington, and Eorrestville in this same county. 
The Manchester stone is a beautiful fine-grained reddish variety, and 
that from East Haven is represented as excellent for rock-faced work. 
The Portland quarries are, however, by far the most important of any 
of these, and it is estimated that from their combined areas not less than 
4,300,000 cubic feet of material have been taken. 

As now worked at this place the quarries descend with absolutely 
perpendicular walls on three sides for adeptli in some cases of upwards 
of 150 feet, the fourth side being sloping to allow passage for teams 
or workmen. The stone is of medium fineness of texture, of a uniform 
reddish-brown color, and lies in nearly horizontal beds varying from 
a few inches to 20 feet in thickness. Natural blocks 100 by 50 by 20 
feet occur, and hence blocks of any desired size can be obtained. 
In quarrying, channeling machines are used to some extent, thongh 
in many cases large blocks are first loosened by means of deep drill 
holes and heavy charges of powder, and these then sjilit up by wedges. 
The blocks are roughly trimmed down with picks at the quarry and 
shipi^ed thus to New York and other large cities to be worked up as 0(;- 
casion demands. Scarcely any of the material is dressed at the quarries. 
The stone has been used in all our leading cities, particularly in New 
York, and has even been shipi)ed to San Francisco via Cape Horn. 
But little quarrying is done in cold weather, as caY-e must be taken 
against freezing wiiile the stone is full of quarrj^ water, a temperature 
of 22° F. being suflQcient to freeze and burst fine bloclis of freshly- 
quarried material. About a week or ten days of good drying weather 
is considered sufficient to so season a stone as to i)la('e it beyond danger 
from frost. 

Great outcry has from time to time been raised against the Portland 
stone on account of its disposition to scale or flake off when laid in ex- 
posed places. While it is undoubtedly true that it is unfit for carved 
work in exposed sitnations, still the author can but feel that tlie archi- 
tect and builder arc largely resi)onsible for llic many ruined fronts 
caused by this scaling, to be seen in New York and elsewhere. It is 
the alnu)st invariable custom in building to split the stone with tlie 
grain into slabs but a fe^v inches tliick and to veneer the walls of build- 
ings with these slabs jilaced on edge. Let thicker blocks be used and 
tlie stone laid on its be<l, as nature laid it down in the (piari-y, and 
this defe(!t will ]>rove less serious, il" it be iu)t entirely remedied. P.ut no 
stone that is capable of absorbing so l;ii-ge a, percentage of water as is 
much of the Coiniecticut and other of oui- Triassic stones, cjin bt', more 
than very moderately durable in the very t i-ying climate of our Northern 
States. 



448 REPORT ON NATIONAf. MUSEUM, 188G. 

There is, however, a vast difference iu material from the same quarry. 
I have seen tombstones perfectly sound and legible after an exposure 
of nearly two hundred years, while others begin to scale in less than 
ten. The remarks made in the chapter on selection of stone are es- 
l)ecially applicable here. 

Dakota. — The pink and red quartzite from Sioux Falls in this State is 
one of the most promising stones of the West. Chemically the stone 
is almost pure silica, with only enough iron oxide to impart color to it. 
It is so close grained as to be practically impervious to moisture, so 
strong as to endure a pressnre of 25,000 pounds to the square inch, and 
will take a polish almost like glass, with which it may favorably com- 
pare in durability. Tn color the stone varies from light pink to jasper 
red, and it is one of the few stones at present quarried in the United 
States which is equally well adapted for rough building and for orna- 
mental work, both interior and exterior. Professor Winchell, in report- 
ing upon this stone, states that it bears a heat up to that of redness 
without cracking or scaliug. The writer is informed by Mr. J. H. 
Drake, of Saint l*aul, that the stone will shortly be introduced into the 
Eastern markets for tiling, decorative work, and general building pur 
poses. The chief drawback to the stone, as may readily be imagined, 
is its great hardness, which is fully ecpial to that of pure (juartz, or 7 of 
the scale as given on page 294. It however possesses a remarkably i)er- 
fect rift and grain, and by especially designed apparatus the company 
expect to be able to put it upon the market at such i^rices as shall in- 
sure its adoption, and at the same time return a fair profit. 

The stone has been used in the construction of the ''Queen Bee" 
flouring mill at Sioux Falls, a structure 100 feet long, 80 feet wide, and 
106 feet high, the walls being 5 feet thick at the base and averaging 2 
feet 9 inches throughout. It lias also been used in the construction of 
several private residences, and the Dakota penitentiary iu this same 
city, and in the buildings of the deaf-mute school at Keokuk, and those 
of the Grinnell College at Grinnell, Iowa. It has also been used in 
polished columns and pilasters in the Germ an -American r>ank and 
Union Depot buildings at Saint Paul, Minnesota. 

Idaho. — The Museum has received samples of a rather coarse, very 
light-colored, sandstone of fair quality from Boise City, in this Territory, 
but we have no inforuuition regarding their availability or the extent 
of the deposits. 

Illinois. — Carboniferous sandstones of light and dark-brown color and 
good quality are found near Carbondale, in this State. The stone is of 
medium texture, works readily, and closely resembles some of the 
Triassic brownstones of Connecticut. The beds are about 14 feet thick 
and are capable of furnishing blocks of large dimensions. A very fine- 
grained light bluish-gray laminated stone is quarried in a small way 
near Xenia, and other sandstones of fair quality occur at Suka, Marion 
County, Chester, Randolph County, and various points in Perry and 
Greene Counties. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 449 

Indiana. — Very liglit; almost white, and bluisli grey sandstones, of 
fine, sliarp, and even grain, occur in Frencli fjick Tovvnsliip,. Orange 
County, and iu a lew localities in Warren and L'erry Counties. A part 
of tlie Orange County stone is used for whetstones, and is known com- 
mercially under the name of " Hindostan oil-stone." 

Georrjia. — ^o sandstones are at present quarried in this State, but it 
is stated that "the Chattooga IMountains contain a considerable va- 
riety and of various shades of colors, among wliicii are white, gray, 
bull", brown, and red. Souie of these exist iu uuissive compact beds, 
while others have a jointed structure that make them easily quarried. 
The thickness of the entire sandstone series is about 800 feet. Build- 
ing stone of this cliaracler nuiy be had also on Lookout and Sand 
Mountains, iu the Cohutta range."* We have as yet seen none of the 
above. 

loica. — This State produces but little of value as building material 
iu the way of sandstones. Coarse, dark brown stones of Carbouiferous 
and Cretaceous ages occur in Muscatine and Cass Counties and have 
been quarried to some extent, l)ut their qualities are not such as to 
cause them to be used for otiier than rough work in the near viciuity. 

Kansas. — Good sandstones are stated by Professor liroadhead to 
occur in several of the counties iu the southwestern part of this State, 
though, so far as we have observed, few if any of these are of such a 
quality as to acquire other than a local market. A tine, deep blue, gray 
lamiuated stone is found at Parsons, and a brownish one at Oswego, in 
Labette County, also a brownstone at Pawnee, Crawford County, and 
others of various hues iu Bourbon, Neosho, Montgomery, Wilson, 
Woodson, Greene, and Elk Counties. 

Kentucli/. — The sandstones of this State, so far as shown by the col- 
lections, aie all of a light color, hue-graine<l and rather soft. Light 
buff and })inlcish colors are found in Simpson, Grayson, Todd, John- 
son and Jireckenridge Counties, souie of which are of a beautiful 
mellow tinr. Light-gray stones of apparent good quality, and closely 
resembling- the Berca of Ohio, occur at Blue Lick INIountain, Living- 
ston iu liockcastle County, and in Pineville, Bell County. We are 
unable to give farther information regarding them. 

Maryland. — Sanustoiic of such a miture as to be in demand for other 
than local uses is quarried in but a single locality in this State. In 
Montgomery County, near the mouth of Saneca Creek, about 30 miles 
northwest from the city of Washington, there occurs a considerable de- 
posit of Triassic sandstone which for many years has been quarried 
more or less to furnish material for the Washington market. The stone 
is as a rule light reddish-brown in color, of line and even tcxturii, and 
well adapted for all manner of building and ornamental work. The 
writer has examined this stone, both in the quarry and in various 
buildings, and does not hesitate to pronounce it one of the best of our 

* Coniirion wealth of Georgia, p. 136. 
H. Mis. 170, pt. L' 29 



450 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Triassic stones. Clay-boles abound in some portions of the rock, but 
can be avoided by careful selection. The stone is not at all sbaley and 
shows little, if any, disposition to scale when exposed to the weather. 
The Suiithsouiau Institution, erected in 1848-54 from this stone, sliows 
few defects Irom weathering alone, and these only in those cases where 
they might have been avoided by judicious selection. Ou blocks of 
this stone in the aqueduct of the Chesapeake and Chio Canal which 
have been constantly permeated by water every season for fifty yeiirs, 
the tool-marks are still fresh and no signs of scaling arc visible otlier 
than are produced by too close contact at the joints. The quarries are 
conveniently situated near by the canal, where stone can be readily 
loaded upon boats for the Washington markets, from whence it can be 
shipped by rail or vessel to all our principal cities. 

Massachusetts. — The beds of Triassic sandstone, which furnish in Con- 
necticut the well-known Portland brownstone, are continued up the 
valley of the Connecticut Kiver to the northern boundary of Massachu- 
setts and furnish in several places valuable deposits of building mate- 
rial. At East Long Meadow, in Hampton County, quarries are worked 
in this formation which produce a rather finer grained stone than that 
of Portland and of a bright brick-red color. Like all the Triassic stones 
it is soft and works readily, and on account of its warmth of color can 
be used with very pleasing effects in a variety of combinations. 

The extensive formation of Primordial conglomerate in Dorchester, 
Koxbury, Brookline, and other towns south and west of Boston furnishes 
an inexhaustible supply of durable building material for rough work, 
but which, owing to its coarseness, is unsuited for ornamental work of 
any kind. The stone is quite variable in different localities, but may, aa 
a whole, be said to consist of a greenish gray groundmass or paste in 
which are imbedded rounded pebbles of all sizes up to several inches 
in diameter of quartz, granite, melaphyre, felsite, and a variety of rocks. 
Tliis composition renders the smooth dressing of the stone a practical 
impossibility', and it is used only in the rough state, advantage being 
taken of the numerous joint faces, which in building are placed outward, 
thus forming a comparatively smooth wall. The stone thus forms a 
very durable building material and has been used with good effect in 
several churches and other buildings in and about Boston. 

Michigan. — According to Professor Conover* the beds of Potsdam 
sandstone occurring with frequent outcrops in the northern part of the 
Upper Peninsula in this State are likely to furnish the largest quantity 
and the best quality of building material found within the State limits. 
The stone quarried from this formation at Marquette is of medium fine- 
ness of texture, of a light brownish -red color, often curiously spotted or 
mottled with gray. These gray spots are generally rounded and \'ary 
in size, according to Mr. Batchen, from that of a pea to 12 or 18 inches 
in diameter. These blotched portions are usually rejected in building, 
* Report Tenth Census, 1«80, p. 2'->7, 



BUILDING AMD OKNAMENTAL SIONKS. 451 

altliou.^li wlirn used tliey give strikiiifi: and not imi)l('asaiit eilects. The 
spots are stated by tlie above-nieutioned atitliority to be equally dura- 
ble with the rest or colored portion. A siinilai' stone is (]uarried at 
L'Anse, in lloughtou County. Mr. Baclieii stiites these stones were in- 
troduced into the Chicago market about 1870. Their chief <lefects are 
Hint pebbles, which ily out in process of dressing, and clay lioles. Both 
defects can be avoided by proper selection of the stone. In color the 
Marquette and L'Anse stone are both richer than the Connecticut or 
Xew Jersey Itrownstones, and apparently would [)rove more durable, 
although as yet they iiave been too little used to establish this point to 
a certainty. Uesides the localities mentioned, these stones occur at 
various places along the laice shor-e west of Keweenaw Point, and also 
near the eastern end of the coast of Lake Superior, along the valley of 
the Laughing Whitelish Kiver and around it. At this latter locality 
the stone is very hard, compact, heavily bedded, splitting readily into 
slabs of any re(]uired thickness, ajid is especially suited for heavy ma- 
sonry. 

MliDicsota. — According to Professor ^Vinchell* the red sandstones of 
Fond du J^ac are the most valuable of their kind that the State pos- 
sesses. Tiiey are of the same formation as the New Ulm quartzite de- 
scribed below, but were less hardened at the time of their upheaval. 
The stone is of medium lexture and of a brown or reddish color, closely 
lesembling the Connecticut brownstone, but much harder and firmer. 
A similar rock comes from Isle Itoyal and Sault Ste. iNLirie at the east- 
ern end of Lake Su[>erior, At this latter place it is often mottled with 
gray or greenish. The stone consists almost wholly of <piartz cemented 
w ith silica and iron oxides. Its crushing strength is said to vary be- 
tween 4,i)0u and 5, 000 [)0unds per square inch. 

At Xew Ulm and in other i)laces in Cottonwood, Watonwan, llock, 
and Pii)estone Counties tiiere occurs a very hard, comi)act, red (piartzite, 
which has been used to some extent for building pur[)Oses, though its 
intense hardness is a great drawback, but it is practically indestructi- 
ble and hence valuable. In Pipestone County the rock occurs associ- 
ated with the beautiful and interesting red pipestone or catlinite, famous 
on account of its being used by the Indians for pipes and ornaments. 

At this point the rock is jasper red in color and very hard, but is be- 
ginning to be used i'or ashler work, produ(;ing very striking effects. I 
am informed by the (piarry owners that the entire bed at Pipestone is 
some 75 feet in thickness and the stone is quarried entirely by means of 
bars and wedges, no explosiv'es being nepessary. A polished slab of the 
stone of great beauty was exhibited at the Chicago J^]xposition in 1S8G. 

Ill Courtlaud Township, Nicollett County, the same quartzite occurs 
of n, beautiful deej) red, almost purjjle, color. Samples received at 
the National I\Iuseum were found to work with great difficulty but 
weie very beautiful. The same stone, but of lighter color, occurs at 

*(!(!()]. of Miiiiu^Hota, Vol. 1. 



452 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Sioux Falls, Dak. At Dresbacb, in Wiuoua County, tliere occurs a 
Hue graiued rather soft-light gray stoue which bears a close resem- 
blauce to the Berea stone of Ohio. It is quarried to some extent and 
is regarded by Professor Winchell as promising of future usefulness. 
We hav^e received also specimens of a fine light-pink sandstone from 
Pine County, which is stated to occur in heavy beds and to be easy to 
quarry. It is regarded by Professor Winchell as fully equal to the Cleve- 
land, Ohio, freestone. The sandstone occurring at Jordan, Scott County, 
is of a light color, and while suitable for general building purposes is 
not regarded as fitted for first-class structures. 

Missoiiri. — So far as the author has had opportunity of examining, the 
fine light bull" subcarboniferous sandstone quarried within a few miles 
of the town of Saint Genevieve is the most important sandstone in the 
State. 

The quarry face shows a bed 25 feet in thickness of good uniform 
rock, and blocks 150 feet long, 20 feet wide, and 10 feet thick are said 
to be obtainable if desired. The stone weathers well in the climate of 
Saint Louis, but is stated to discolor by smoke. 

Near Miami Station, in Carroll County, a fine gray sandstone is quar- 
ried, the better grades of which make good building material ; but it 
must be selected with care, as it frequently contains concretionary 
masses which weather out on exposure. 

The Johnson County sandstone is stated to be of good quality in 
certain situations. It has been used in several important structures 
in the State, and stands the test of time without scaling, only becoming 
stained and darkened with age. It is quite light, weighing only 140 
pounds per cubic foot when seasoned, or 145-150 when freshly quarried. 

Mississippi. — Sandstones of gray and light buff color occur in Jeffer- 
son, Kankin, and Tishomingo Counties, in this State. Samples of these 
were on exhibition at the exposition at New Orleans in the winter of 
lSS4-'85, and from thence were transferred to the national collection at 
Washington. As shown by these specimens the stones are fine-grained 
but rather soft and friable, and in no Avay remarkable for their beauty. 
Their durability would depend apparently altogether on climatic in- 
fluences. The writer has no information regarding the uses to which 
the stones have been put, if, indeed, they have as yet been used at all. 

Montana. — A fine light gray Cretaceous sandstone somewhat resem- 
bling the well-known stone of Berea, Ohio, occurs in considerable abun- 
dance in Eocky Canon, Gallatin County, and is coming into general use in 
Boseman. The writer is informed* that it can be obtained in blocks 
of large dimensions and that it works readily when first quarried, but 
hardens on exposure, though, like the Ohio stone, it stains with red- 
dish streaks from oxidation of pyrite. A com])act red quartzite from 
near Salesville, west of the west Gallatin, is also coming into use to 
some extent. A fine, very light stone of uncertain age is also quarried 
* By Dr. A. C. Petile, U. S. Geol. Survey. 



lUTILDlNG AND OliNAMENTAL STONES. 453 

near i>iil()ii lor ust; iu IJiittc, Dcor Lodge County. ISo leceuily bas the 
Teiiitory become settled that tlierc lias as yet arisen but little demand 
for other materials than wood for biiildiny. The great scarcity of this 
article in the most thickly settled portions of the Territory, together 
with the abundjj,nce of easy-working, but in so dry a climate durable, 
sandstone, will doubtless bring about a radical change within a very 
few years. 

New Jersey. — The largest and most exteusiv^ely worked quarries of 
stone of any kind in this State are in the Triassic belt of red or brown 
.sandstone which extends from the New York line in a general south- 
westerly direction across the State to the Delaware River. The principal 
qAarries are in various towns in Passaic, Essex, Hunterdon, and Mer- 
cer Counties. The stone, like that of Connecticut and other Triassic 
areas described, is a granitic sandstone, cemented by iron oxides, silica, 
and carbonate of lime ; the colors varying from light brownish gray lo 
reddish brown. As shown in the Museum collections, the stone is as a 
rule of finer texture than that of Connecticut, and less distiiictly lami- 
nated, consequently scaling less readily when exposed to atmospheric 
agencies. According to Professor Cook,* this stone has been used from 
an eaily date in Bergen, Passaic, and Essex Counties for building i>nr- 
poses and for monuments and gravestones, where it has shown good 
l)roof of its durability. It has also been very extensively used in New 
York and neighboring cities. At the quarries, as is usually the case, 
the surface stone is found more or less broken up and blocks of small 
size only can be obtained, but the beds become more solid as they are 
followed downward. At some of the Belleville quarries blocks contain-, 
ing 1,000 cubic feet have been broken out. In one of these quarries over 
2 acres have been excavated to an average depth of CO feet. Some 
of the quarries, as at Passaic, produce stone of several varieties of color, 
as light brown, dark brown, and light gray; the fine-grained dark brown 
is usually considered the best and is the most sought. In several of 
the quarries trap rock (diabase) also occurs. 

Neto Mexico. — From the vicinity of Las Vegas Hot Springs have been 
received samples of light gray, brown, and pink sandstone, of fine text- 
ure and apparently excellent quality. They are not as yet much used, 
owing simply to lack of demand for stone of any kind. A soft, very 
light gray vol(!anic tuJf occurs at Santa Fe, which may prove of value 
for building i)urposes in a dry climate, or one where the temperature 
does not often fall below the freezing point. 

Xcvada. — A coarse, gray, friable stone is quarried at Carson, in this 
State, but it is unfit for any sort of fine work or foundation, owing to 
its softness and porosity. 

New Yorlc. — The principal sandstones now quarried in this Stale may 
be divided into three groups, belonging to three distinct geological 
horizons, each group possessing characteristics i)eculiar to itself and 
*Aimual report State Geologists, 1881, p. 43. 



454 REPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

SO pronoiiuced as to be readly recognized thereby. The lirst of these 
belong to the IJamilton period of the Devoniau Ibrinations, and are 
fine-grained, compact, dark bhie-gray stones, very strong and durable.* 

They give a pronounced clayey odor when breathed upon, and have 
been desigiviited grey wade by Professor Jnlien, though j^opularly known 
as "bluestones " for their ordinary color. The second group belongs to 
the Medina period of the Upper Silurian formations. These stones are 
largely siliceous, of coarser, more distinctly granular texture than the 
last, and are of a gray or red color. The third and last group belongs 
to the Potsdam period of the Cambrian formations. Like the Medina 
stone, they are largely siliceous, and contain a much larger proportion 
of siliceous cementing material. These are usually light red or nearly 
white and intensely hard and refractory. 

Discussing each gr.oup more in detail, it may be said that the -'blue- 
stone" district is confined to comparatively narrow limits west of the 
Hudson Eiver, and mainly to Albany, Green, and Ulster Counties. It 
begins in Schoharie County, passes to the southeast and enters Albany 
County near Berne, and from there passes around to the south and south- 
west across Green, Ulster, and Sullivan Counties, and across the west 
end of Orange County to the Delaware Eiver and into Pike County, 
Pennsylvania.! 

The typical bluestone belongs to the Hamilton period, and is a fine- 
grained, compact, tough, and eminently durable rock of a deep dark blue- 
gray color. Owing to the fact that it occurs usually in thin beds and 
splits out readily in slabs but a few inches thick, it has ])een used very 
extensively for flagging, curbs, sills, caps, steps, etc. Its somber color is 
something of a drawbacK to its use for general building iKirposes. As a 
rule the quarries are shallow affairs, and the work carried on in the 
crudest possible methods. At Quarryville, Ulster County, the quarries 
have been worked for upwards of forty years, and vast quantities of the 
mater-ial removed. The quarries lie in lines along three i)arallel ledges, 
which have a general northeast and southwest direction, the beds of 
sandstone overlying each other from west to enst, with strata of slate 
aud hard sandstone between them. The quarries in the easternmost 
ledge extend about a mile in length, 175 feet in width, and have been 
worked to an average depth of about 12 feet. In the middle ledge the 
line of quarries extends over an area about 1^ miles in length, 150 to 
500 feet in width, and have been quarried to a depth of from 12 to 20 

* Microscopic examination lias sliown the Devonian sandstones of New York to 
consist chiefly of "angular to suban^nlar grains of quartz and feldspar, with their 
interstices occupied by smaller grains of magnetite, scales of chlorite, and particu- 
larly short iibers of hornblende interlacing the grains of the other constituents. The 
result is an ' argillaceous sandstone,' flagstone, or greywacke, peculiarly comijact 
and impermeable, which has retained its fresh condition to an extent which could 
not otherwise have been expected from an aggregate so liable to ready decomposi- 
tion." A. A. Julien in Proc. A. A. A. S., Vol. xxviii, 1879, p. 372. 

t Report of the Tenth Census, Vol. x, 1880, p. 130. 



Building and ornamental, stones. 455 

feet. Quite heavy beds oecur in some of tlie (luariies, and the joints 
allow blocks of very lar<i-e si/e to be obtained. In the western ledj^e 
the qnarries are in a line some 1,000 feet lon<,' by 150 wide, and are 
worked to an average depth of abont 12 feet. The total thiekness of 
the layers in this region is from 4 to 20 feet, and the stripping from G to 
17 feet in depth. In working the quarries but little capital is required 
beyond the value of the necessary tools, they being commonly leased and 
royalty paid at the rate of one-half cent per square foot of stone quar- 
ried. The larger si/e of blocks have dimensions of abont 15 by 8 feet, 
thougli some 20 by 15 feet have been taken out. At the time of taking 
the census in 1880 there were ui)wards of one hundred and tifty quar- 
ries within the blnestone district as given above. All, however, agree 
so closely with those of Quarryville, that further descriutiion seems un- 
necessary. 

The quarry district in the Medina sandstone extends from Brockport, 
Monroe County, to Lockport, Niagara County. The stone is, as a rule, 
moderately fine-grained in texture, hard, and of a gray or red color, the 
red variety being most used for building pnr])oses, while the gray is 
used in street-paving. The red variety has a bright and pleasing ap- 
pearance ; both red. and gray are sometimes used together, with good 
effect. ]\Iost of the stone buildings in Lockport and Buffalo are of the 
Medina stone. The most important feature of the stone is, however, 
its adaptability for street-paving, in place of the usual granite or trap 
blocks. It is said that the sandstone blocks have the advantage of 
not wearing smooth, as do the granites and traps, while at the same 
time/ they are nearly, if not quite, as durable. 

The stratum of quarry rock is put at about 30 feet in thickness, the 
different layers of which vary in thickness from 18 to 30 inches. 

Three miles south of the town of Potsdam, in Saint Lawrencjc County, 
the Kaquette Eiver cuts across the Potsdam formation, and quarries 
are worked along the banks of the stream. The outcrops at this point 
are some 2 miles in width from north to s(nitli. In the quarry the 
strata di[) to the south at an angle of about 45°, the beds increasing in 
thickness somewhat from the top downward, until at a depth of 40 feet 
they are some 2 or 3 feet in thickness. In color the stone is light-reddish 
or reddish-brown, and though, when tirst quarried, soft enough to work 
readily, becomes most intensely hard on seasoning. It is very highly 
silicious and is, without doubt, one of the most durable of all our sand- 
stones. Owing to its hardness it has been as yet but little used for 
general building pur[)0ses. Columbia College, in New York City, is 
one of the most important buildings yet constructed from it. At Port 
Ann, in the same (;onnty, the stone is much lighter in color and com- 
posed of almost pure silica, there being an almost entire absence of iron 
oxides iTi the cementing material. The stone is, as a conse(pience, ex- 
tremely hard, but tough and durable. 

North CaroUtia. — Tlie narrow belt of Triassic sandstone already men- 



456 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

tioiied as passing tlirougb this State fariiislies fiiio, compact, light and 
dark reddisb-browu stone of a quality not at all inferior to any of tbat in 
the more Northern and Eastern States. Through the energy of the late 
Professor Kerr the museum has received a very full assortment of these, 
and we can speak of their qualities from a personal examination. 

At Wadesborough, in Anson County, the stoue lies in beds from 
2 to 10 feet in thickness, which are inclined at an angle of about 25° 
from the horizontal. It is of fine, even grain, quite massive, aiul of dark 
brown and reddish colors. Heretofore it has been used chiefly for 
railroad work and for steps and general trimming purposes in Charlotte 
and Wilmington, but is worthy of a wider application. Within the 
past year steps have been taken to introduce it into the markets of 
Washbigton and other of our eastern cities. The chemical composition 
and crushing strength are given in the tables. 

The Sanford stone is of a brown color and is said to lie in the quar- 
ries in nearly horizontal strata from 1 to 5 feet in thickness. The stone 
from near Egypt is quite similar in api)earance. Near Durham it be- 
comes in part of a gray color, but otherwise is little different. This 
stone has been used in Kaleigh for upwards of thirty years and shows 
itself to be strong and durable. 

OMo. — According tT Professor Orton* those rocks of the sub-Carbon, 
iferous period called by the Ohio Geological Survey the Waverly group, 
are the most important as to production of building stone in the geo- 
logical scale of this State. The following section shows the arrange- 
ment of this formation: 



1. Maxville limestones, in patches. 
9. Logan group. 
3. Cuyahoga shale. 



4. Berea shale. 

5. Berea giit. 

G. Bedford shale. 



Of these, number 1 occurs but seldom. Number 2 consists of fine- 
grained sandstones overlying and alternating with massive conglomer- 
ate in the central and southern part of the State. In thickness about 
100 feet. The Waverly conglomerate is a member of this group. Number 
3, about 300 feet in thickness, is a blue argillaceous shale in many 
parts of the State, but in many places contains scattered courses of 
sandstone of great value. Number 4 is from 10 to 30 feet thick, and 
number 5 is the Berea grit, the great quarry rock of northern Ohio. 
This formation is from 10 to 75 feet in thickness, and extends in a 
belt from Williamsfield, in the southeastern corner of Ashtabula County, 
westward into Erie County, and thence nearly directly southward in 
Adams County to the Ohio River. The stratum of sandstone where it 
is best developed consists of heavy sheets, with often a course at the 
top of thin, broken layers, called shrll rocJc, and of no value for building- 
stone. Number G is from 10 to 100 feet in thickness, and furnishes no 
building stone, excepting in Cuyahoga County, where it yields the well- 
known "Euclid bluestone." . 

•Report of the Geological Survey of Ohio, Vol. V, p. 578. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 4i)7 

The Bcreii grit, as quarried lor buildiiii;- iniiposcs, may be deseribcd 
as a fine-grained homogeneous sandstone, of a very light bnll', gray, or 
blue-gray color, and yery eyenly bedded, the iiidiyidual sheets yarying 
from a few inches to 10 or more feet in thickness. In many places this 
evenness of bedding is especially remarkable, as in some of the quar- 
ries of Trumbull County, where blocks of stone 10 feet square and 
only IJ inches thick haye been extracted, and with suriaces so smooth 
and straight that a straight-edge laid upon them would touch at every 
point. Slabs but 1 or 3 inches in thickness are said to have such 
strength that they go into general use without question. In one case 
a strip 150 feet long, 5 feet wide, and but 3 inches thick was rei)orted 
as raised intact from the quarry bed. The various layers, although 
closely compacted, are, however, pcrfectl}^ distinct, adhering to one 
another "scarcely more than sawn planks in a pile." 

Like many of the sandstones of this horizon, the Berea grits contain 
but little cementing material, the various particles being held together 
mainly by cohesion induced by the pressure to which they were sub- 
jected at the time of their consolidation. They are, therefore, soft, 
working readily in any direction, and are particularly sought forcarving. 
This property also renders the stone of especial value for the manu- 
facture of grindstones, since the presence of a cement will nearly al- 
ways cause a stone to glaze and its cutting power be thereby nearly if 
not quite destroyed. Unfortunately the Berea stone nearly always 
contains more or less sulphide of iron (pyrite) and needs to be selected 
with care. The best varieties will usually become yellowish on long 
exposure, but this is not in all cases injurious. Indeed, this property 
of " mellowing with age" is now claimed as one of the good qualities 
of the stone. When, however, the pyrite occurs in such quantities as 
to produce by its oxidation unsightly blotches its presence is, of course, 
objectionable. 

The principal quarries of the stone at present writing are situated in 
the towns of Amherst, Berea, East Cleveland, Ilyria, and Independence 
in Lorain and Cuyahoga Counties. 

At Amherst the quarries are located in a series of ledges which were 
once the shore cliffs of Lake Erie. The elevated position of the stones 
is a great advantage, since the light and uniform color seems due to 
the fact that this elevation produces a free drainage, and the stones 
have been traversed by atmosi)heric waters to such a degree that all 
processes of oxidation which are possible have been very nearly (;om- 
pleted. The stone here as elsewhere varies considerably in character 
and solidity within limited distances. The following section of one of 
the Amherst quarries is given by Professor Orton : 



I''eet. 

Drift inatorial 1 to 3 

Wortbless shell-rook to 10 

Soft rock for i^irindstoiics only.. 12 

Buiklinjj; stoiio . :> 

Bridge stone 2 



CriDdstonc, o 

Buildiiio; and <rrindstonc, 10 

Biiildin;i; Hton(i 4 to 7 

Biiildinj(ston<>. or -^rindsfoiK! 12 



458 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Nearly ail the quarries exhibit this diversity of material, although 
the order of arrangemeut is not always the same. The colors are light 
buff and bluish gray, the butf stone occurring above the line of perfect 
drainage and extending down as far as the 2 feet of bridge stone, form- 
jug a total thickness of 27 feet. In most of the Amherst quarries the 
relative amount of buff stone is greater. Difference in color and text- 
ure has given rise to various local names which may be mentioned 
here. The colors are denominated simply by "blue" and '' buff," The 
regularly and evenly stratilied stone is called "Split rock;" that in 
which the stratification is irregular and marked by fine transverse and 
wavy lines is called " Spider web, " and the homogeneous stone show- 
ing little or no stratification is called " Liver rock." 

As regards composition the stone contains usually about 95 per cent, 
of silica with small amounts of lime, magnesia, iron, oxides, alumina, 
and alkalies. Analysis has shown them to contain from 5.83 to 7.75 per 
cent, of water when first taken from the quarry, and from 3.39 to 4.28 
per cent, when dry. The quarries can be operated only about eight 
months of the year owing to the injury caused by freezing when the 
stone is full of its quarry w^ater. 

In the town of Berea nearly 40 acres of territory have been quarried 
over to an average depth of 40 feet. The stratum is 65 to 75 feet in 
thickness, the individual sheets varying from 2 inches to 10 feet. The 
stone is as a rule a little darker than the Amherst bluestone. It is used 
mostly for building i^urposes, though grindstones and whetstones are 
also manufactured quite extensively. 

(xreat care must be taken here in selection of material, as the sulphide 
of iron is often present in such amount as to shortly disfigure the sur- 
faces and even discolor the stone in the courses below. 

The well known "Euclid bluestone" is obtained from the Bedford 
shale formation in Newburgh and Euclid, in Cuyahoga County. The 
stone differs from the Berea in being of finer and more compact texture, 
and of a deep blue gray color. Like the Berea stone, however, it un- 
fortunately contains considerable quantities of pyrite, and, as a genei\al 
thing, is not a safe stone for other than bridge work and foundations or 
flagging, for which last i)urpose it is eminently suited. Even when free 
from pyrite it does not weather in uniform colors, and needs always to 
be selected with great caution. 

In the vicinity of Marietta and Constitution, in Washington County, 
a fine grained buff' and blue gray sandstone, belonging to the Upper 
Coal measures series, is quite extensively quarried for grindstones and 
building purposes. Different portions of the stratum furnish stone 
of all varieties of texture for wet grinding, and the grindstones are 
shipped to all manufacturing points in the United States. The princi- 
pal market for the building-stone is in Marietta and various towns along 
the Ohio River. 

At Piketown there is quarried a very pretty, fine grained brown- 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 459 

stoiio, soft and easy to work, and n[)pat(Mitly fairly dniable. It has 
been used iu some of the llnest stone fronts in Columbus, in this 
State. 

According to Professor Orton,* however, the stone is brown only on 
the outcrop, and a few feet from the surface assunu's a dark blue-gray 
color, and loses its value as an ornamental stone, since it contains a 
large amount of soluble iron protoxide, which produces bad discolora- 
tion on exposure. An analysis of this stone is given in the tables. 

Oregon. — Two miles south of Oakland, Douglas County, in this State, 
there occurs an extensive deposit of a fine, dark blue-gray sandstone, 
which changes to a drab color on exposure. It occurs in layers of 17 
to 3G inches in thickness, parted by shaly seams, and is readily quarried 
by means of wedges. Quarries were opened in 1879, but have not been 
extensively worked as yet. A fine-grained sandstone, said to be suita- 
ble for either building or ornamental work, also occurs about 14 miles 
from Portland, in Clackamas County. It has been quarried since 18(30, 
and used iu some prominent structures in Portland. 

Pennsylvania . — The belt of Triassic sandstones passing through south- 
western Pennsylvania is described as beginning at the west bank of the 
Hudson Eiver and extending in a broad belt from the Pay of New York 
to the base of the first ledges of the Highlands, being bounded on the 
northwest by this chain and its continuation. To the southwestward 
it traverses New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and, in a somewhat 
interru])ted manner, Virginia and part of North Carolina, its total 
length being not less than 500 miles, and of a width varying from 10 to 
50 miles. The principal quarry in this formation in Pennsylvania is 
situated on the south side of a hill in Hummelstown, Dauphin Connty, 
the stone dipping to the north at an angle of about 40° and the ledge 
being about 85 feet in thickness. The rock is evenly bedded, the courses 
varying from 3 to 10 feet in thickness, the joints regular and from 4 to 
40 feet apart, so that blocks of any practicable size can, it is said, be 
obtained. The texture is about medium fineness, and the color a deep 
bluish brown, slightly purple. The topmost layers are, however, of a 
reddish brown color, closely resembling the Portland stone. The stone 
compares very favorably with any of the Triassic stones, its chief de- 
fect, so far as the author has observed, being occasional clay holes, 
which sometimes have an unpleasant way of making their presence 
known in unexpected and undesirable places. The Hummelstown stone 
is now in very general use in all our principal Eastern cities. 

Stone from the same formation and didering, if at all, only in slight 
color and texture ])eculiarities is quanied more or less in other towns 
along the belt, particularly Goldsborough, Keading, Bridgeport, and 
several towns in Bucks County. 

The Carboniferous sandstones of Pennsylvania are little quarried 
excepting for local use, although occasionally of good quality. Near 

*0p. cit, 1). 591). 



460 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Pittsburgh and Allejrheiiy, and other towns in Allegheny County, there 
are many quarries which produce gray stone of medium texture of ap- 
parently good quality. They are said, however, to weather unevenly, 
owing to the presence of calcareous matter, and to be very sensitive to 
frost when first quarried. In several places in Vfestmoreland County 
the stoues of this age are of a gray, reddish, or brownish color, fine 
grained and of good quality. They are used to some extent for build- 
ing and also for flagging and paving. 

The sub-Carboniferous formation, so valuable in Ohio for the building 
stone they supply, are in this State of little value, or at least up to date 
have been but little quarried for purposes of constraction. At Venango, 
in Franklin County, a fine-grained, evenly-bedded buff stone, some- 
what resembling the buff varieties of the Berea grit, is quarried for 
sidewalks and buildings in the near vicinity. Other quarries are located 
at Titusville, and also at Uniontown, Altoona, and Scranton. 

Aside from the Triassic stones, the most important sandstones at 
l)resent quarried in the State are from the Devonian formations. In 
several towns in Pike, Carbon, Luzerne, Wyoming, Susquehanna, and 
other counties, stones belonging to this formation, of a fine, compact 
texture and dark blue-gray color, are quite extensively quarried. So 
far as can be judged from the material examined, this is one of the most 
valuable stones in the State for building as well as for flagging pur- 
poses. The Wyoming County stone is known to the trade as "Wy- 
oming Valley stone," and is in considerable demand. It agrees very 
closely in general appearance with much of the New York bluestone 
already described. 

Tennessee. — Finegrained light pink and coarse buff" sandstones occur 
at Sewanee, in this State, and coarse gray at Parksville. The museum 
is in possession of no information regarding the extent to which these 
are used or their weathering properties. 

Texas. — So far as is yet known this State produces but little of value 
in the way of sandstones. In Burnet County there are coarse dark- 
brown and red Lower Silurian (?) sandstones that may do for purposes of 
rough construction in the near Aiciuity. A fine, light buft" Carbonifer- 
ous stone, closely resembling the light-colored Ohio sandstone, occurs 
also at Mormon Mills, on Hamilton Creek, in this same county. A very 
light gray distinctly laminated stone occurs at Kiverside, in Walker 
County, but to judge from the sample in the Museum collection it is of 
verj^ poor quality. A fine-grained liglit bufl" stone, studded with tine 
black points, is found at li-angcr, in Eastland County, and several varie- 
ties of apparent good quality, ranging in color from light buff to deep 
ferruginous red, in Parker County. So far as the curator can learn none 
of these are quarried to any great extent. 

Utah. — No sandstones of any kind are now regularly quarried in this 
Territory, though there is no lack of material. At Eed Butte, near Salt 
Lake City, there occur inexhaustible supplies of Triassic sandstone of 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 4G1 

various shades of red or pink color. These have beeu used to some 
extent in Salt Lake City. 

Virginia. — The belt of Triassic saudstone upou which the quarries of 
Seneca Creek, in Maryhiud, are situated extends across the Potomac 
Eiver in a southwesterly direction as far as the liapidan liiver, in 
Virginia. So far as the curator is aware, but a single attempt has been 
made to quarry this material. On the line of the Manassas and Vir- 
ginia Midland Jiailroad, at a point not far from Manassas, quarries were 
opened about 18C8, and up to the time of the taking of the tenth cen- 
sus some 400,000 cubic feet of material had been moved. As re[)re- 
sented in the collection of the National Museum the stone is tine-grained, 
light reddish brown in color, closely resembling the lighter varieti(;s 
from Seneca Creek, from which, however, it differs in being softer and 
a trifle more absorbent. The quarries are represented as being situated 
near the top of a low eminence, the strata being nearly horizontal, with 
but a slight dip toward the south. The surface only of the ledge has 
been quarried and this to a depth of about 20 feet. The beds vary from 
1 to G feet in thickness and are separated by a greenish shale. 

No other sandstones of any importance are at present quarried within 
the State limits, although formerly the beds of light gray or buff Juro- 
Cretaceous stone in the vicinity of Aquia Creek were worked to a con- 
siderable extent to furnish material for the public buildings in AVash- 
ington City. It required but a few years, however, to demonstrate the 
entire unfitness of this material for any sort of exposed work, and the 
quarrying has therefore been discontinued. 

Waaldngton Territory. — On Chuckanut Bay, adjoining Bellingham 
Bay, in this Territory, is a very large deposit of a blue-gray Carbonifer- 
ous saudstone that has been quarried to furnish material for the United 
States custom-house at Portland, Oregon, and for use in other towns on 
Puget Sound. The quarry is situated on a blutf" which is represented 
as from 50 to 150 feet in height and about a mile in length. The supply ' 
of workable material is inexhaustible and it is said blocks 30 feet in 
length can be obtained without a flaw. The quarries are so situated 
that vessels of large size can be brought directly to the pier for load- 
ing. 

Wisconsin. — The sandstones of this State, so far as we have had o[)- 
X)ortunity of observing, are mostly of a very liglit color and uninterest- 
iug appearance, such as are not likely to ever be in demand for other 
than local uses. Near Darlington, La Fayette County, there is stated 
by Professor Conover to occur a large outcrop of Silurian samlstone, of 
a brown ami brick-red color passing into grayish-pink. This is regarded 
by the above-named authority as the best-appearing stone in that part 
of the State, though little quarried, owing to the large amount of worth- 
less stone associated with it and the cost of transportation. The Pots- 
dam formations in the region of Lake Superior are regarded as capable 
t)f furnishing desirable sandstones, yellowish to deep brown in color. 



462 REPORT ON NATIONAL MU8EUM, 1886. 

The chief defect in these is the presence of numerous and hirge clay 
holes, necessitating great care in selecting the material. Many expos- 
ures, as at Douglas and Bayfield Counties and on the Apostle Island 
are so situated that the quarried material could be shipped directly 
upon vessels with but little carting. 

West Vi7'ginia. — According to Professor Orton this State abounds in 
building stone, of which, however, but a small percentage is strictly 
first-class material. With the exception of one or two i)oints on 
the Baltimore and Ohio Eailroad, none is quarried for the general 
market. Near Eowlesburgh, on the banks of the Cheat Eiver, there 
occurs a deposit of fine deep blue-gray Devonian sandstone that has 
been quarried to the depth of 40 feet, over an area of perhaps one- 
fourth of an acre. The quarry lies at the very foot of the mountains, 
and the amount of stripping is accordingly very great and continually 
incrfeasing. The stone resembles very closely the Devonian bluestone 
of New York, especially that quarried in Chenango County and the 
lighter varieties of Ulster County. It is said to be highly esteemed 
and very durable. 

According to the same authority the Kanawha Eiver and its tribu- 
taries throughout the whole region about Charleston are Availed with 
rock, and quarries are possible everywhere, but not all of the stone is 
equally good. The engineers employed in the erection of the Govern- 
ment building at Charleston, after thoroughly testing all the prevailing 
varieties, finally decided upon that from a comparatively thin bed, 6 to 
10 feet in thickness, that forms the cap to the Mahoning sandstone 
formation near Charleston. This rock is light gray, siliceous, some- 
what conglomeritic, but strong and eminently durable. Frost seemed 
to have no effect upon it, and no efflorescence is perceptible upon ex- 
posed blocks. Continual vigilance must, however, be exercised in select- 
ing stone, as much of it contains shaly pockets and pyritiferous seams. 
'The bluestone from this same region, which has been largely used in the 
Government works of improving the Kanawha Eiver, is a strong stone, 
experiments having shown it to have a crushing strength of about 
14,000 i^ounds per square inch of surface, but much of it is pyritiferous, 
and great care must be used in selection. This stone has been used in 
one or two important buildings, and with very bad results, it beginning 
to discolor and exfoliate within two or three years. 

At Grafton, in Taylor County, a light-gray sandstone belonging to 
this same formation (Carboniferous) has been extensively quarried for 
railroad work. The quality of the stone is said to be good, and it is 
strong enough for the heaviest work. The thickness of the stratum 
here is from 150 to 200 feet, and the amount of stone available is beyond 
computation, there being literally mountains of it. There are several 
other localities in this region where sandstone is quarried for local pur- 
poses, but which can not be noticed here. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONLS. 463 

(2) VOLCANIC FKAGMENTAL KOCKS. TUFFS, 
(a) Definition, Oiugix, and Comi'oshiox. 

Umler the general name of tuff it is customary to include those fine- 
grained fraguiental rocks formed by the consolidation of volcanic de- 
tritus, such as ashes, sand, and lapilli, or by the breaking down and 
reconsolidation of volcanic rocks of various kinds. Tliis consolichition^ 
according to Geikie,* may have taken place either under water or on 
dry land ; in either case they are as a rule distinctly stratified. Those 
of the tuffs which are formed from Tertiary or post-Tertiary erupted 
materials are naturally but slightly consolidated, soft and easy to work. 
It follows, almost as a matter of course, that they will absorb a propor- 
tionally large amount of water, and hence be less durable in the exceed- 
ing trying climate of the Eastern and Northern States. 

The older tuffs are often so firmly compacted that recourse to the 
microscope must be had to determine their fragmental nature. 

(h) Varieties of Tuffs. 
According to the nature of the lava, from the disintegration of which 
the tuffs are formed, they are designated by si[)ecial names. EhyoUte 
tuft" is com])osed of disintegrated rhyolite; trachyte tuff' of disinte- 
grated trachyte, etc. 

((.') Localities and Uses. 

These rocks are very abundant throughout our Western States and 
Territories, but are scarcely at all used for building purposes, owing in 
part to the newly settled condition of the country in which they occur 
and in part to their state of incomplete consolidation. They are, how- 
ever, soft, and easy though rather unsafe working stones, owing to lack 
of definite rift and grain, often plucky fracture, and the presence of 
numerous dry seams and clay holes. They are, moreover, light, frequent- 
ly weighing only from 75 to 100 pounds per cubic foot, though moderately 
strong. When not exposed to too wide variations of climate they must 
prove very durable. Although no systematic experiments have as yet 
been made, appearances indicate that they would ])r()ve extremely re- 
fractory in case of fire.t 

They present a great variety of colors; white, gray, i)ink, red, lav- 
ender, salmon, green, and even black, are common. 

With these qualities there seems no reason for their not proving a 
valuable material in dry climates for all kinds of structural purposes 
where only the rougher kinds of finish are enq>l()yed, their textures be- 
ing almost invariably such that they will not polish. 

The light gray and pink rhyolite tuii" occurring in Douglass County, 
Colo., has been used in the construction of the IJjiicm Depot, Windsor 
Hotel, and other buildings in Denver. 

* Ti^xt-Book of Geology, ]). 1()4. 

tNcwbcrry states that tho tnfrn fduud near Challis, Idaho, aro of "considerable 
iiiiportaiicoas they are oxtiMi.sively used in place of lire-briek for liniu;; lead-smelting 
furnaces," being very refractory and easily dnvsscd into sh-apo with an ohl ax. — 
Trans. N. Y., Acad. Sci., Dec, 1831. 



464 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

The stone lias already been alluded to under tbe head of sandstones. 
It may rank as a fairly durable material, but contains clay bales and 
other imperfections that unfit it for fine work of any kind. The Mu- 
seum has received other samples of tufi's of various kinds from Cali- 
fornia, New Mexico, Idaho, and Utah, but they are not at all used at 
present, and their fitness or unfitness for any sort of building purposes 
is a i)roblem for the future to decide. From near Phoenix, Ariz., has 
been received a tuff consisting only of the firmly compacted shreds of 
vokjanic glass or pumice and that is stated to have been used locally to 
some extent.* 

Although so little used in this country, tuffs are very generally em- 
ployed for building purposes in many foreign localities. They are 
found abundantly in the volcanic districts of central France, and in the 
Haute-Loire, where they have been used in the construction of churches 
and dwelliug-liouses. The so-called " x)eperino " of the campagna of 
Eome and Kaples, is a tuff formed by the consolidation of volcanic 
ashes, and has been used in some of the buildings of these cities. It 
was also used in the construction of the houses of Ilerculaueum and 
Pompeii, t 

Khyolite tuffs are, as I am informed by Signor Aguileria, very largely 
used for general building in certain i)arts of Mexico, the climate being 
such as to render almost any material very durable. There is now a 
large collection of these stones in the National Museum. 

(3) AKGILLACEOUS FRAGMENTAL ROCKS. THE SLATES, 
(a) Composition and Structuhe. 
Ordinary clayslate consists of consolidated clay. It is therefore 
classed as a fragmental rock, although microscopic examination has 
shown that it frequently contains crystalline matter, and that the rocks 
pass by insensible gradations into what are called argillitic mica schists. 
Mici^scopic examination of slates from Littleton, N. H., by Hawes,| 
showed them to consist of a mixture of quartz and feldspar in frag- 
ments as fine as dust. There is also present a " considerable quantity of 
some amorphous coaly matters," and many little needles of a brightly 
polarizing substance which is probably mica. The claj^slate of Han- 
over, N. H., was found by the same authority to contain many minute 
crystals of garnet and staurolite. An examination of some clayslates 
from the Huronian region of Lake Superior, by Wichmann,§ showed 
them to consist of a ''colorless isotropic gronndmassin wliich the other 
constituents are apparently imbedded, Avhilst throughout are found 
dust-like particles of a deep gray color, Avhich represent the chief con- 
stituent, aiul consist i)robably of clay substances, the greater part ot 
them probably of kaolin." Besides these constituents there were also a 
few quartz and feldspar particles, scales of hydrated oxide of iron, flakes 

* See Am. Jour. Sci., Sept., 1886, p. 1991. 

t Hull: Building aud Ornamontal Stones, p. 283. 

tGeol. of Now Hiimpsliire, Vol. in, p. 237. 

$ Quar. Jour. Geol. Soc, Loudou, xxxv, 1879, p. 158. 



HUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



465 



of coal, niiiiutc tourmalines, and mica fragments. The Maine slates as 
observed by the author contain quite large flakes of greenish mica, and 
many (luartz and carbonaceous particles. As a rule the dark color of 
slate seems to be due to these carbonaceous particles, since they are 
very abundant in the dark varieties, as those of West Bangor, Pa., and 
almost entirely lacking in the light-greenish varieties, as those of Cas- 
tletou and Fairhaven, Vt. The red slates of Granville, K. Y., are made 
up of a groundmass of impalpable red dust in which are imbedded in- 
numerable quartz and felds[)ar particles all arranged with their longer 
axes parallel with the cleavage direction of the slate. 

Although slate is undoubtedly a sedimentary rock, its remarkable 
cleavage property is in no way connected with its bedding, as might 
at iirst be supposed, but as shown by Sorby,* Daubree.t and others, 
is caused by pressure acting in a direction at right angles with this 
cleavage plane, and which may or may not correspond with that of its 

bedding. 

(b) Uses ok Slate. 

Besides for roofing purposes, slates are used for billiard-tables, man- 
tels, floor-tiles, stejis, fliigging, and in the manufacture of school-slates. 
For the last-named purpose a soft, even-grained stone is required, and 
almost the entire supply is at present brought from Pennsylvania and 
Vermont. 

Of late years the busincvss of marbleizing slates for mantels and fire- 
places has become an important industry. All kinds of stones can be 
imitated by this process, but that most commonly seen is the green verd- 
antique marble and the variegated marbles of Tennessee. Like many 
counterfeits, however, the work is too perfect in execution, and need de- 
ceive none but the most inexperienced. 

The following table gives the various sizes of slate made for rooting, 
and the number that are necessary for a "siiuare," /. c, a space 10 feet 
square, or containing an area of 100 square feet :| 



Size. 



by U. 
Ki. 
I'i. 
11 

10. 

la. 

12. 
U. 
111. 
12. 
II. 
10. 
9. 
11. 
10. 



No. of 

slates 

to a 

s<iuare. 



105 
114 
124 
i:i8 
116 
126 
138 
15! 
141 
154 
169 
188 
174 
102 



Size. 



l>.y 9 ■ 



No. of 

slates 

to a 

square. 



213 
230 
222 
246 
247 

yiG 

300 
327 
374 
430 
400 
4.57 
570 
640 
514 



10 by 

10 

10 



Inches. 

7 

6 



* Etliiibiirj'- Pliilo.sojili. Jour., iv, 1B.'>I'., ]>. 1:57. 
t Geologic Exporiiiiciitfilo, p. '.VJl. 

I From K(!p. 1) 3, Vol. i, p. 142, Second (J'l-ol. Siir., IVnnsylv-iniii. 
U. Mis. 170, pt. 2 30 



No. of 

slatos 

to a 

sijuaie. 



588 
686 
823 
,039 
600 
686 
800 
i»(iO 
200 
y(iO 
1,52 
440 
440 
800 
400 



46 () EEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

(c) Slates of the Vaiuous States and Teukitokies. 

Georgia.— Whites sufficiently cleavable to be applicable for rooting pur- 
poses are stated * to exist in great <iuantities along or near the line of 
contact between the Silurian and Metamorphic Groups, near the Co- 
butta, Silicoa, Pine Log, and Dug Down Mountains in this State. The 
most noted locality for roofing slates is on the eastern side of Polk 
County. The outcrops are in steep hills and are apparently of great 
thickness. They have been worked quite extensively at Eock Mart, 
though in a crude and itinerant niauner, since as early as 1859, the ma- 
terial being shipped chiefly to Atlanta and ueighboring towns. Other 
dark-colortd slates are found in Bartow, Gordon, Murray, and Fannin 
Counties, while buff" and light green varieties are found in large quan- 
tities in the northwestern portion of Bartow County. None of the above 
are to be found in the general market, nor have we received samples of 
the same. 

Maine. — According to Dr. Jackson t inexhaustible quantities of slate 
occur along the banks of the Piscataquis Eiver from Williamsburgh to 
Foxcroft. Professor Hitchcock | also reports excellent sites for (juarries 
of this material as occurring on the Keimebec Kiver from Patten to 
Pleasant Ridge. At various times quarries have been opened at differ- 
ent points in these localities, but the principal ones at this time are in 
the towns of Monson, Blanchard, and Browuville, Piscataquis County. 
The slates here produced are all of a blue-black color and are re})orted 
by Mr. J. E. Wolff as of most excellent quality, being hard, with a fine 
cleavage surface, not subject to discoloration, and giving forth a clear 
ringing sound when struck. Although seemingly susceptible of being 
used for all purposes to which slates are usually applied, they are at 
present utilized almost altogether for roofing. 

Maryland. — The principal (juarries of slate in this State are in Har- 
ford County, adjoining Pennsylvania. The ridge upon which the quar- 
ries are situated extends across the State line into York County, where 
several other quarries are worked within a radius of about 1 mile. As 
the Harford and York County stones are practically identical we will 
reserve a complete descrii)tion of their qualities until we come to speak of 
the latter. Other quarries were formerly worked in the town of Ijams- 
ville, in Frederick County. The stone here is of a blue black color and 
is represented to be of good <iuality, but for some reason unknown to 
the writer the quarries are no longer worked. 

Massachusetts. — Although, as already noted, slate was one of the stones 
to be earliest (piarried in eastern Massachusetts, the material was ot 
such a nature as to be of little value except for rough construction, and 
hence the industry has always remained of slight importance. The 
only quarries now worked from which slate suitable for roofing or other 

^^ Coinmonwdaltli of Georgia, p. 137. 

+ Second. Report on Geology of Maine, 18;>S, p. 116. 

t Second Ann. Rep. Geol. and Nat. Hist, of Maine, 18()2, p. 4-2i). 



IJUILDING AND OKNAMENTAl. STONES 4()7 

fine work ci 111 be obtuined are at L#ica8ter, in Wonte.ster Coiuily. Tliis 
quarry is stated by Marvi.ii* to have beeu opened by a Olr. I'la^^t;' over 
a century ago, and the slates were in use as early as 1750 or 1753 (ante, 
p. L*D1). Owing' to lack of favorable transportation facilities the work 
was discontinued more than fifty years since, and it was not till 1877 
that it was recommenced. The slate though porous is said to hold its 
color well and to be durable. Another outcrop of slate of good quality 
is said to occur about 1 mile north of Clinton, in this sauKi cuunty, Jt 
is not, however, as yet quarried. 

The clay slates occurring in the vicinity of Boston and Cambridge 
have long been used for road materials, butl()ri)urposes of construction 
only to a slight extent. They are not sufficiently lissile for rooiing pur- 
poses. The stone is regarded by Professor Slialer as of great value for 
rough building-, as it is durable, easily (juarried, and very elfective when 
placediua wall. The Shepherd ihuuorial Church in Cambridge is the 
only building" of importance yet constructed of this material. 

Minnesota. — At Thompson, Carlton County, where the Saint Paul and 
Duluth Eailroad crosses the Saint Louis lliver, thercoccurs, according 
to Prof. N. U. Winchellt an inexhaustible supi)ly of hard, black, and 
apparently eminently durable slate suitable for roofing, school-slates, 
tables, mantels, and all other purposes to which slate is usually ai)plied. 
Quarries were opened here by the railroad company in 18S0, but for 
some unknown reason were discontinued before any of the stone had 
been i)ut upon the market. The deposit is regarded as of especial value 
by Professor Winchell, inasmuch as it is the most western known in the 
United States, and its close proximity to the railroad renders the trans- 
portation of the quarried material a matter of comi)arative ease. 

Michigan. — An extensive deposit of Iluronian slates occurs in the 
northwestern portion of the northern peninsula of this State, princi- 
pally in the towns of Houghton, Marquette, and Menoinonee. But a 
small portion of the entire formation will furnish material sulU(dently 
fissile, homogeneous, and durable for rooiing purposes; nevertheless 
the su[)ply of good material is so abundant as to be i)ractically inex- 
haustible. At L'Anse the beds extend down to the lake shore, but 
are badly shattered, not homogeneous, nor of suflicient durability in 
this immediate vicinity to be of value. Good roofing slate is, however, 
found about 15 miles from L'Anse, on the northwestern side of the 
Huron mountain range, and about 3 miles from Huron Bay, where ex- 
tensive quarries have beeu opened. TJie stone here is susceptible of 
being split into large, even slabs ot any desired thickness, with a line 
silky, homogeneous grain, and combines durability and toughness with 
smoothness. Its color is an agreeable black and very uniform. Sev- 
eral companies have located their quarries along the creek which runs 
l)arallel with the strike of the slate, and a tramway about u.Jj miles in 

* History of Lancaster. 

tPrelimiuary Kei>. on the Building- Stones, etc., of Minnesota, 1380, p. 17. 



468 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

length has been built down to the ISy, where a dock lias been erected 
for the unloading of vessels and for the convenient shipment of the 
material.* 

Neto Jersey. — The belt of Silurian slates and shales extending in a 
northeasterly and southwesterly direction entirely across the northern 
part of this State includes several quarriable areas, but which have up 
to the i^resent time been utilized only to a limited extent. Quarries 
have been worked at La Fayette and Newton, in Sussex County, and also 
at the Delaware Water Gap in Warren County. The product of these 
is represented by Professor Cookt as of good quality and suitable not 
only for rooliug material, but also for school slates, tiles, mantels, etc. 

New Hami)shire. — Professor Hitchcock states | that the only forma- 
tion in this State likely to furnish good rooting slates is the Cambriau 
range along the Connecticut River. There have been quarries upon this 
belt in the towns of Littleton, Hanover, and Lebanon, but they have not 
now been worked for several years. The stone is stated to be not quite 
equal to that of Maiue and Vermont, but certain portions of it might be 
utilized locally to. good advantage, as lor tables, i)latforms, curbs, and 
flag-stones. In Littleton the band of rocks suitable for workiug is nearly 
an eighth of a mile wide and has been opened at tAvo localities. The 
strata are vertical and the outcrops on a hill where good drainage cau 
be had to a depth of a hundred feet. The stone is soft, apparently dura- 
ble, and of a dark-blue color, but does not cleave so thin as the slate 
from Maine. At East Lebanon the valuable part of the slate-bed is 30 
feet in width. The stone does not split sufficiently thin for rooting, but 
can be utilized to good advantage for chimney-piects, table-tops, and 
shelves ; also for sinks, cisterns, flooring- tiles, etc. The waste material 
was formerly ground and bolted into slate Hour. 

Neio Yorlc. — According to Professor Mather § " The rooiing- slate forma- 
tion of this State ranges through Eeusselaer County from 2 miles west 
of Lebanon Springs to the northeast corner of Hoosic; theuce north 
in Washington County through the towns of White Creek, Jackson, 
Salem, Hebron, Granville and Hampton; and theuce an unknown dis- 
tance into Vermont." A range of roofing slate supposed to be the same 
as that of the Hoosic quarries extends also through the towns of Canaau, 
Austerlitz, Hillsdale, Copake, Aneram, and Pulver's Corners, in Colum- 
bia County. The most important quarries at present worked are in the 
townsof Hampton, Middle Granville, Granville, and Salem, in Washing- 
ton County, and Hoosic, in the northeastern part of Rensselaer County, 
though there are said to be numerous promising localities in different 
parts of the range which have never been opened. Professor Mather 
estimates the quantity of slate suitable for rooliug in the range as above 
given to be "sufficient to supply a nation's wants for ages." The same 

*Geol. of Michigan, Vol. m, Part i, p. 161. 

t Ami. Rep. ^tato Geologist of New Jersey, 18S!, p. G6. 

t Geol. of New Hampshire, Vol. ill, p. 81. 

§ Nat. Hi.st. of New York, Geology, 1843, part 1, p. 4-JO. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 469 

iiutlioiity states that tliese slates, thongli softer than the imported Welsh 
slates, are ecjually good. They are reported by Doctor Fitch * as occur, 
ring in a great variety of colors, passing through alaiost innumerable 
shades of gray, brown, black, blue, green, yellow, purple, and red. This 
last variety, I am informed by Professor Smock, is the most highly valued, 
bringing about three times the price of the black. It is quarried ex- 
tensively at North Granville, near the Vermont line, and is regarded as 
the best of its kind produced in this country. According to Doctor 
Fitch t the bed of red slate, although at present quarried in only one or 
two towns, "occurs in a nearly continuous line through the whole length 
of the slate formation from Vermont to New Jersey." But a small part 
of this, however, is capable of furnishing material of good quality. 
Many attempts have been made, as I am informed by Professor Smock, 
to open quarries in the central and western half of Washington County 
with but indifferent success, those now worked being almost altogether 
in the northeast corner of the county, near the Vermont line. 

Fennsylimnia. — The narrow slate belt already noted as occurring in 
Harford County, Md., crosses the State line into the extreme eastern 
portion of York County, in Pennsylvania, and thence sweeps around in 
a gradually narrowing curve to the Susquehanna liiver, appearing 
again on its eastern bank, in Fulton Township, Lancaster County, 
where it finally disappears. It is from this narrow belt, at its greatest 
dimensions less than a mile wide and scarcely more than six miles 
long, that has been quarried for many years the justly celebrated blue- 
black " Peach Bottom slate." The stone is stated to rank very high for 
strength and durability. It is tough, line, and smooth in texture, and is 
stated not to fade on exposure, buildings on which it has been exposed 
for upwards of seventy-five years still showing it fresh and unchanged. 
An analysis of this slate is given in the tables. The principal quar- 
ries now worked are at Bangor and West Bangor, York County, in 
Pennsylvania, and at adjacent points just across the line in Maryland. 

The Utica and lludson River slate formation, in which lie the largest 
and most important quarries of slate at present worked in this country, 
extends in a belt of from 7 to 12 miles in width throughout the entire 
northern parts of Northampton and Lehigh Counties, and thence in a 
gradually though unevenly narrowing band in a general southwesterly 
direction through Berks, Lebanon, Dauphin, Cumberland, and Franklin 
Counties, whence it passes into Maryland. But a very small portion of 
the thus roughly delineated area is of such a nature as to furnish stone 
for economic purposes. The quarries at present worked, beginning with 
the northeastern part of Northampton County, are situated at East 
Bangor, Bangor, Pen Argyl, Chapman's Station, Catasauqua, Allen- 
town, dale, Lynnsport, and Stinesville. 

The geological character of the beds and the details regarding the 
quarries have been described with considerable detail by Mr. K. H. San- 



Ti:ui8. N. Y. Ai^r. Soc, l.Sl<>, ]>. 8:50. iOp. cU., \). ri;M. 



470 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEMM, 188G. 

derSj* aud wliicli it vseems iiunecessary to repeat liere. The slates pro- 
duced are all of a blue or blue-black color, aud are used for all purposes 
to which such material is usually applied. lu the manufacture of school- 
slates a softer and finer grade of material is requisite than for most 
other purposes. These are split from the block in the same manner as 
roofing-slates, their edges trimmed with a circular saw, and the faces 
smoothed by a drawing-knife, after which they are rubbed down with a 
cloth and fine slate dust till the surface is smooth aud even. They are 
then mounted in wooden frames and packed for shipment. 

The following statistics of shipments from the Slatington region for 
the year 1SS2 will give some idea of the magnitude of the industry : t 

Scpiares of roofing slates, 100,000 ; cases of school slates, 29,704 ; cases 
of blackboards, 1,171; cases of mantels, 71; mantels (pieces) 2,704; 
cases of hearths, G ; cnses of flagging, 173;| ; flagging (pieces) 16,643 ; 
cases of sawed slate, 15 ; cases of pencil slate, 3 ; making a total by 
weight of about 20,920 tons for the year. 

South Carolina. — Clay slates are stated | to occur in this State in a 
broad band extending along the edge of the Tertiary formations from 
Edgefield County, on the southwest, to Chesterfield, on the northeast. 
The present writer has seen none of this material nor has he any knowl- 
edge regarding its adaptability for any form of architectural work. 

Texas. — Bluish-black slates of a jointed and thinly stratified struct- 
ure, resembling the surface slates of New Hampshire and Vermont, 
and promising of great utility, are stated to occur in Llano aud Presidio 
Counties. § The writer has seeu none of these. 

Vermont — The roofing slates of Vermont are stated by Professor 
Hitchcock II to exist in three distinct and nearly parallel belts, occupy- 
ing the eastern, middle, and western portions of the State. The east- 
ern belt extends from Guilford, one of the most southern towns in the 
State, to Waterford, and probably as far north as Burke, in Caledonia 
County, where it is cut olf by an immense outcrop of granite. The slate 
of this belt dilfers from that of the other divisions in presenting a more 
laminated appearance, resembling closely a mica schist, the cleavage 
corresponding closely with the lamination, which varies, if at all, but a 
trifle from the plaues of stratification. The stone is represented as of 
good color, tough, and durable. Besides for roofing purposes it was 
used largely for tombstones prior to 1830, when marble began to be 
used in its place. The first quarry opened in this belt is stated by the 
above authority to have been that of the New England Slate Company^ 
who commenced operations in 1812. At the present time, so far as the 
author is aware, no quarries whatever are worked in this belt. 

The middle range of slate extends from Lake Memphremagog in a 

* Rep. D .i, SkcoikI Geol. Surv. of Pennsylvania, Vol. i, 1883. pp. 83-1(30. 
t From Rep. D', 2(1 Gool. Sarv. Pennsylvania, p. 144-1 4fi. 
t South Carolina, Resources, Population, etc., 1883, p. 133. 
S^Second Ann. Rep. Geol. of Texas, 187f;, p. 26. 
II Geol. of Vennouf, Vol. ii, 18()l, j). 7D1. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 471 

soutlieily (joursc as fai- as Ijarnard. The slate ioimd in tins (lilleis IVoiu 
that of the eastern belt in that it splits more readily into thiu sheets, 
is not so distiuetly laminated, and is more unilorm in color, "being 
nearly black and apparently free from tlie traces of iron oxides." A 
single quarry is now in operation in this belt, that of the Adams Slate 
Company, in Nortbfield, Washington County. 

Tlio western and most im[)ortant of the slate belts of this State ex- 
tends from a point near the town of Cornwall, on the north, southward 
through Castleton, Fairhaven, Poultney, Wells, and Pawlet, and passes 
into the State of New York at Granville. In this slate it is stated 
" there is a marked difference between the stratification and cleavage 
planes, the dip of the latter being greater than the former." In color 
the slates of this region are said to closely resemble those of Wales, 
being of a dark puri)le, with blotches of green, while some of the strata 
are green througliout. In some portions of the formation a red slate 
occurs, similar to that found across the line in New York State. This 
variety is not, however, now quarried. This western area furnishes the 
most fissile and valuable slates of the State, and, as will bo seen by 
reference to the tables, is very extensively worked. The slate is soft 
and uniform in texture, and can be readily ])laned or sawn with a steel 
circular saw, such as is used in sawing lumber. It is well adaj)ted and 
extensively used, not only for roofing i)urposes, but for school slates, 
slateqieucils, blackboards, table-tops, mantels, etc. It is very exten- 
sively marbleized. It is stated by Professor Hitchcock* that the first 
quarry opened in this region was that of Hon. Alanson Allan, who be- 
gan the manufacture of school slates at Fnirhaven in 1845. 

Virfjinia. — On Hunt Creek, a tributary of Slate Eiver, in Buckingham 
County, in this State, there occur extensive deposits of bbuvblack slate 
of a quality suitable for a variety of uses, although they nre now used 
almost altogether for roofing purposes. The principal qnarries now 
worked arc at or near the towns of Buckingham, New Canton, and Ore 
Banks. Another belt of slate of the same geological age (Arclneaii) as 
that just mentioned is stated to occur near the southeast base of the 
IilneP,idge, in Amherst and Bates Counties. Very few samples of any 
of these have as yet come into the Museum collection. 

(fl) ('aTMXITK, OI! IiVniAN Vivv. Ston'k. 

Althongh frequently found in the collections of amateur mineralo- 
gists, this SMbstance can not be considei'ed a, true mineral, but is rather 
an indnrated clay.t It therefore varies greatly in composition, as it 
does also in color and degree of induration. TIk; usual color is a deep 
1 hough dull red, often beautifully flecked with small yellowish dots. 
This form is soft enough to l)e readily cut with a knife, but is suhiciently 
firm and compact to retain the sharpest edges and lines that may be 

* Op. cit., p. 79(i. 

tSce Aiiiilysos, Oool. Miim(\sol;i, Vol.i,i>. f^l-J. 



472 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

carved upon it. The material first derived its notoriety from the fact 
that the Sioux Indians utilized it for the manufacture of their pipes 
and various other articles, and at the present time these same people 
living in the vicinity of Fiandreau, Dak., derive a considerable income 
from the manufacture and sale of these articles. 

Owing- to the fact that the material occurs only in a thin bed under- 
lying the hard and tough red quartzite of the vicinity, it can, with the 
present facilities for extraction, be obtained in blocks of only very mod- 
erate dimensions. Its color is such, however, that in proper combina- 
tions it could be used very advantageously in interior decorations. The 
principal source of the material is near Pipe Stone City, in Pipe Stone 
County, Minn.* 



* See Geol. of Minnesota, Vol. i ; also Am. Jour. Sci., lo67, p. 15, and Am. Natural- 
ist, 1868-'69. 



Part III. 

STONES OF OTHER C^OIJNTRIES. 
A.— ALABASTER. 

Italy. — Alabaster of the finest quality occurs in several i)arts of Italy, 
particularly at Miemo, in Tuscauy, rontiba<;ni, and Castelliua, and at 
Aosta, in Piedmont. The purest and best variety is, however, from Yal 
di Marmolago, near Castelliua.* Some of these are very extensively 
worked, the clouded varieties beingf made into vases and other objects, 
while the pure white varieties are made into statuettes. In this form 
they are sold in considerable (juantities in this country, ])assini;- under 
the name of Florentine marbles. As prepared for the marlvct these are 
indistinguishable from true marble by any but an expert, and it is safe 
to say a large number of people are yearly imposed upon. Shouhl one 
have reason to suppose that this article is being imposed upon him for 
trnc marble he has but to try the object in some obscure part with the 
thumb-nail. Alabaster is readily scratched or iiulented in this manner 
while marble is not attected. Another test is to apply a dilute acid. 
True marble will dissolve and effervesce briskly, while the alabaster re- 
mains unchanged. Besides being softer and hence more liable to injury 
these alabaster objects are inferior to those of marble in that they are 
more easily soiled and are difficult to cleanse. 

It is stated + that the Italian alabaster is, when first quarried, semi- 
transi)arent, and that it is wrought while in this state. It is then 
rendered white and opaque (like marble) by placing the objects in a 
vessel of cold water which is tlien slowly raised to the boiling point. 
It is then allowed to cool to a, temperature of about 7(P or 8(P Fahr. 
when the objects are removed and carefnlly wiped <lry. At first they 
appear little changed by their baptism, but gr.adually assume the de- 
sii'ed color and opacity. 

B.— SERPENTINOUS EOCKS. VERDANTIQUE MARRLES. 

EiKjland. — Xone of the American seri)entinous ro(;ks now known can 
compare in ])oint of beauty, in variety and elegance of colors, witli those 
of the Lizard district in Cornwall, England. A series of polished blocks 

*Hull: Biiilil. and Ornaiii. Stoiicw, \). 1(35. 
tApjileton'H Diet. <if Mccliauics, Vol. ii, p. :?87. 

473 



474 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

of tliese in tbe Museum collection show the prevailing colors to be dark 
olive green with veins, streaks, and blotches of greenish white, clioco- 
late brown, and blood red. The green varieties are often spotted by 
ill-defined Hakes of a " silky brouzitic mineral." 

The rock is softer than the serpentine of Harford County, Md., but 
takes an e(iually good surface and polish, and works much more readily. 
It is stated by Hull * to be obtainable in blocks from 7 to 8 feet in 
length and from 2 to 3 feet in diameter. According to this same au- 
thority, the stone is admirably ada])ted for interior decorations and is 
now being used for ornamental fonts, pulpits, small shafts, and pilas- 
ters, as well as for vases, tazza, and inlaid work. 

Considering the remarkable beauty and the variety of colors dis- 
played by this stone, it seems strange that it should not have found its 
way more extensively into Ameri(;an markets. 

The rock is regarded by Bonueyt as an altered intruded igneous rock, 
rich in olivine (Lherzolite). 

Italy. — The principal sorpentinous rocks of Italy are the ophicalcites 
of Pegli and Pietra Lavezzara, near Genoa, and of Levante, and the true 
serpentine of Tuscany. The Yerde di Pegli is a breccia cousistiug of 
deep green fragments of serpentine cemented by light green calcite. 
The contrast of colors thus produced is said to be very pleasing. The 
Verde di Genova stone from quarries at Pietra Lavezzara is also a 
breccia consisting of green, blackish green, brown, or red serpentine 
fragments with an abundant cement of white or greenish calcite. It 
has been quarried from time immemorable and is largely used in France 
where it is known as Vert de Genes. Its selling price at Turin is about 
20 cents per cubic foot. The opliicalcite of Levante is a breccia like the 
preceding, the fragment being of a violet or wine red color. It is diffi- 
cult to work but acquires a good polish. The Italian name for the stone 
is rosso or Verde di Levante ; tliough sometimes called (jranito di Le- 
vante. The Tuscany seri^entine from quarries near Prato is known com- 
mercially as Verde di Prato. The stone is of a deep green color, carry- 
ing crystals or nodules of diallage and is traversed by a net-work of 
fine lines giving it a brecciated appearance. It contains also veins of 
noble serpentine of a clear, greenish or whitish color. It is softer than 
ordinary serpentine and acquires only a dull polish, but works very 
readily. The dark green varieties are most valued, and having been used 
in ancient monuments is frequently called the Nero antico di Prato | 
This stone is stated by Hull to be subject to rapid decay when exposed 
to atmospheric influences. 

* Building and Ornanientiil Stones, p. 102. 

t Quar. Jour. Geological Society of Loudon, Vol. xxxiii, Part 2, 1877, p. 884. 

t Delesse, pp. 77-79. 



lUIll.DINCi AND OliNAMlONTAi. STOiNKS. 475 

C— LlI\[ESTONES AND MARBLES. 

(1) AFRICA. 

]^u}i)i(lian Marbles'. — Witliin a very few years tliere have been re- 
opened in Algeria and Tnnis tlie fanions qnariiesof "Nnniidian" mar- 
bles, from wlience tlie ancient Ivonians ;ire stated to have oi)tained the 
celebrated " Giallo Antico" and other stones for the decoration ol" their 
houses and temples. 

According to Play fair,* the name NKmidian is incorrect, as tlie mar- 
bles are not found in Numidia propei-, but in the ])rovinces of Africa 
and Mauritanin. "Most of the Giallo Antico," says this antliority, 
"used in Rome was obtained from Simittu Colonia, the modern Chem- 
tou, in the valley of IMedjerda, the quarries of which are now being 
worked by a Belgian conqmny ; but the most remarkable and valuable 
marbles are found near Kleker, in the province of Oran, in Algeria. 
There, on the top of Moniagne Grisc, exists an elevated plateau, 1,500 
acres in extent, forming an uninterrupted nmss of the most si)lendid 
marbles and breccias which the world contains. Their variety is as 
extraordinary as their beautj'. There is creamy-white, like ivory; 
rose color, like coral ; Giallo Antico. Some are variegated as a pea- 
cock's plumage, and on the west side of the mountain, where tliere Isas 
been a great earth movement, the rock has been broken up and rv- 
cemented together, forming a variety of breccia of the most extraordi- 
nary richness and beauty." 

There are in the Museum collections a series of these, f which range 
in color through many shades of gray, drab, siena, yellow, and ros(>-red, 
and which are designated in our markets under the names oi' /(ikhc, 
antique dorc., paonazzo rosso^ janne chiaro ondaiv, janne rose, rose clah\ 
hreche saiujuln, and jaspe rouge. All are extremely conipa(;t and hai-d 
and acquire a surface and polish of wonderful beauty. The United 
States, at present, produces nothing that can comi>are with them tor 
interior decorations. 

Egyptian onyx or '■'■Oriental alabaster.'^ — This beautiful stone, which, 
like tiie onyx marbles of Mexico, is a travertine, occurs, according to 
Hull,t in extensive beds amongst the Tertiary limestones of Blad I'tecam 
(marble country) near the ravine of Oned Abdallah, Egypt. The 

* Geol. Majr., Dec, 1885, p. ^}ii2. 

tTbo gift of Mr. E. Fritsch, of New York, by wliom llicy were imported. 

t linildiiig and Ornainontal Stones, p. 170. Tluu'o is coiiftiisiDH here among -lutliori- 
ties. Unll, a.s aliove noted, sets down the Egyptian onyx as from IJlad Kecani. Dc- 
iesse (op. cit., }>. 15.5), on the other hand, states tlmt the F>gyi)tian roclc comes from 
JJcni-Sonef, ahont 25 leagues south of Cairo on the Nile, and from Syont, still fartlu-r 
south, while the Algerian stono is stated to occur at Ain-Tembaiek, near tli(>. river 
Isser, in the province of Oran. As the imported stone is known altogether as AV/.'/y- 
iian onxy, it seems proliahle that it comes from either IJeni-Souef or Syont. To .judge 
from samples in the Musimiiu collections the Egyi>!la:i stone is much 8ui)erior to iliat 
of Aljieria. 



47G REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

stone way used by tlie iiiluibitants of Koine and Carthage for tlie in- 
terior decorations of their houses, but for over one thousand years the 
quarries were entirely lost sight of, and it was not until 1849 that they 
were rediscovered by a French gentleman, M. Delmonte. The stone is 
of a whitish, yellow, and amber color, and presents the peculiar banded 
and wavy structure common to stones of this class. It is now shipped 
in considerable quantities to Paris, where it is utilized in the maiui- 
facture of candlesticks, timepieces, and similar articles. It is also im- 
ported into this country and is used in the decorative work of soda 
fountains and for small articles of household furniture. 

Nnmmulitic limestone. — The celebrated nununulitic limestone of Eo- 
cene age from Northern Africa, and which was so extensively used by 
the Egyptians in the construction of their pyramids, is represented in 
the collections of the National Museum by a 7 inch cube, the gift of 
Commander Gorringe, U. S, Navy. This particular block was formerly 
a portion of the steps leading to tlie obelisk at Alexandria, and was 
brought away at the same time as the obelisk itself. Hull states that 
this stone was used in the construction of Baalbec, Aleppo, and some 
of the cities of the Holy Land. The pyramid of Cheops is of the same 
material.* 

(2) BELGIUM. 

This country is stated by Violet t to be exceptionally rich in colored 
marbles, though white varieties are entirely w^anti ng. They are mostly 
of a somber or dull color, and, like the marbles of Northern France, be- 
long, according to Delesse,| to the Carboniferous and Devonian forma- 
tions. The ])riucipal varieties now quarried for exportation, as repre- 
sented in the collections of the National Museum, are tlie black of St. 
Anne, from Busnie, province of Namur, the blue from Couillet, near 
Charleroi province of Hainaut, the reds from Cerfontaine and Merlemont, 
near Philii)peville, province of Namur, and the well-known " Belgian 
black" from (juarries in Golzines, and the environs of Dinant, also in 
the i^rovince of Namur.§ All of these are ver^^ fine grained and com- 
pact, admitting of smooth surfaces and high polish. 

The St. Anne marble is of a deep blue-black color with many short 
and interrupted veins of white; those of Couillet are much lighter in 
color and with more white ; some of the varieties are breccias composed 
of fragments of compact blue-gray limestone imbedded in a white crys- 
talline matrix. The red marbles of Cerfontaine and Merlemont are 
known as rouge griotte, rouge griottcjlcure, rouge impcnal, and rouge royal. 

* Op. cit., p. 236. 

tLes marbres, p. 44. 

tMatcriaux de construction, p. 1S)4. 

§ Violet gives the full list of Belgian marbles as follows : " Le niarbre Saint Anne, 
le rouge royal, le rouge imperial, la griotte do Flandre, la griotte ibnirie, le granite 
beige, le bleu beige, le Florence beige, bizantin beige, bleu autiqne, lo grand anti<£ue, 
le jietit antique, et Ics marbres noira de Golzinnes et de Dinant." 



BUILDING AND OJiNAMENTAL STONES. 477 

AH are dull red, ol" lii^lit and dark shades, variously spotted, flecked, 
and veiued with white and ^ray ; none of tlieni are as brilliant in color 
as the French griottcs. The variety rouge nnjal is very light, and some- 
what resembles certain varieties of the Tennessee marbles, but is in- 
ferior. The well-known " Belgian black" is of a deep black color, hard 
and ditlicut to work, but takes a high polish, and is considered the best 
of its kind now in the market. 

(:}) BERMUDA. 

The building stones of Bermuda are altogether calcareous and frag- 
meutal. Although popularly known as coral limestones, they contain 
as a rule fully as large a pro portion of shell as of coral fragments. 
Nearly all the (juarried material belongs, according to Professor Kice,* 
to the drift sand-rock variety, l. c, rocks made ni) of fragments blow^u 
inland from the beach and subsequently cemented b.y calcareous matter 
in a crystalline or subcrystalline state. The rock varies in color and 
texture from chalky white, tine grained, and i)orous (somewliat like the 
French Caen stone), to a darker, coarser, but tough and compact form, 
in which the individual fragments, often of a pink color, are one-fourth 
of an inch or more in diameter. 

According to the authority above quoted the rock is usnally very soft 
and is quarried out in large blocks by means of a peculiar long-handled 
chisel, and afterward sawn up in sizes and shapes to suit individual 
cases. The harder varieties, as found at Paynter's Vale and elsewhere 
are, however, worked like "any ancient limestone or marble." 

Most of the houses of Bermuda are stated by Professor Kice to be 
built of this soft, friable variety, and even the roofs are covered with 
the same material sawn into thin slabs. When covered with a coating 
of whitewash the stone is found sniliciently durable for ordinary build- 
ings in that climate, but if exposed to the rigors of a JN^ew l<]ngland 
winter it would crumble ra})idly. The hard rock, such as is found at 
Paynter's Vale and Ireland Island, '" has been nsed in the construction 
of thefortihcationsand other Government works" on the islands. "Tlie 
(juarry of the lioyal Engineers, near Elbow Bay, appears to be in 
beach-rock." 

(4) ENGLAND. 

JkitJt oolite. — The well-known Bath stone or Bath oolite is a light, 
almost white or cream-colored oolitic limestone I'rom (juarries in the 
Jurassic formations wliich extend from the coast of IJorset, in the sontli 
of England, in a northeasterly direction through Somersetshire, CUou- 
cestershire, Oxfordshire, Northamptonshire, to Lincolnshire, to York- 
shire.! 

In texture it is distinctly oolitic, soft, and very easy to work. Its 

* Geol. of Bcnimda, Bull. 2."), U. S. Nut. Mils., 1884. 
tllull, Building and Ornamental Stones, p. 210. 



478 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

durability wheu exposed iu the trying climate of America is a matter 
of great doubt. 

Nevertheless, churches and cathedrals erected iu the west of En- 
gland as long ago as the eleventh, twelfth, and fifteenth centuries, are 
stated by Hull* to be still in good preservation. 

As yet the stone has been but little used iu this country, though 
a movement has been of late on foot for its introduction. 

Fortland stone.— This stone, which has been in use in England since 
the middle of the seventeenth century ,^is a light-colored Jurassic lime- 
stone from quarries on the Isle of Portland, near Weymouth. In com- 
position it is a nearly pure carbonate of lime, but its texture is too un- 
even to recommend it for other than massive structures. It was used 
in the construction of St. Paul's Cathedral (Loudon), and many churches 
erected during the reign of Queen Anne, t 

(5) FRANCE. 

Gfiotte, or French Red. — This beautiful stone takes its name, according 
to Violet,! from the griotte cherry, owing to its brilliant red color. 
When, as frequently happens, the uniform redness is broken by small 
white spots, 'it is called " birds-eye griotte " {griotte cell de perdrix). 
Some varieties are traversed by w^bite veins, but these are litgarded as 
defects and are avoided iu quarrying. The stone is found in several lo- 
calities in the French Pyrenees, notably in the valley of the Barousse, of 
the Pique, at the bridge of the Taoulo, and in the environs of Prades. 
It is used for all manner of interior decorative work in France, and is 
exported to a very considerable extent to this country. This is by all 
odds the most brilliant in color of any marble of which the author has 
knowledge. In the small slabs usually seen iu soda-fountains, coun- 
ters, etc., it appears homogeneous and free from flaws. As displayed in 
the halls of the capital building at Albany, N. Y., however, it is full of 
flaws and has been so extensively " filled" as to give the whole surface 
a gummy appearance, iu striking contrast with that of the Tennessee 
niarble with which it is associated. The ])rice in France as given by 
Violet § is from 400 to 500 francs per cubic meter, or about $2.75 to 
$3.50 per cubic foot, according to quality. 

Another marble of a brilliant scarlet color, blotched with white and 
known as Languedoc marble or French red, is stated by Violet (oj). cit.) 
to occur at various points in the Pyrenees, but in masses of exceptional 
beauty and compactness at Montarjne Noire (Black Mountain), where it 
has been quarried since the sixteenth century. It is obtainable here in 
blocks of considerable size which bring in the market of Carcassone prices 
varying from 250 to 350 francs per cubic meter, or, roughly speaking. 

Op. cit., p.209. 

t Hull, p. 212. 

tLes Marbres, etc. Rapports siir L'Expositiou Min., 1878, xxviii, p. 15. 

^ Op. cit., p. 16. 



BUILDING AND OK'NAMENTAL STONES, iTl) 

from $1.75 to $2.50 per cubic foot. Other Freucli iiiiuhlcs, tlioiii;h which 
are but little used in tliis coniitr^^, are the rose marble iVoin Cauues, the 
rerf-mouliii, also called griotte campan, the campnii vert, or the eumjfan 
mi'lanyc. The Avrongiy so-called Italian griotte is, accordini;- to Cha- 
teau,* obtained from quarries at La Motte de Feliiies-d'lLautpoul, de- 
]):irtment of Uerault. Violet states that this name was giveu it simply 
that it might command a higher price. 

Caen stone. — This is one of the most noted liiuestones of modern his- 
tory. It is a soft, hnegrained stone, very light colored, and admirably 
adapted for carved work, but so absorbent as to be entirely unlitted 
lor outdoor work in such a climate as that of the United States. Egle- 
ston t states that in the climate of New York City the stone does not 
endure longer than ten years unless protected by paint. 

The stone takes its name from Caen, in JSTormandy, where the prin- 
cipal quarries are situated. It was probably introduced into Great 
Britain soon after the Norman concpiest, where it was largely used in 
cathedrals and other buildings down to the middle of the liftecnth cen- 
tury. The cathedral of Canterbury and Westminster Abbey are of 
this stone. I 

Brocatelle. — This is a very beautiful marble ami much used lor mantels 
and other interior decorations. The body of tlie stone is very fine and 
compact, and of a light yellow color, traversed by irregular veins and 
blotches of dull red. It is further variegated by patches or nodules of 
white crystalline calcite. It tali:es an excellent polish and re([uires less 
tilling than many marbles. Its source is stated b}' Violet § to be Jura, 
in southern France. Tiie stone is dilUcult of extractiou and brings a 
high price. 

The name brocatelle is stated by Newberry || to signify a coarse kind 
of brocade used for tapestry. 

- ■ ((5) GERMANY AND AUSTRIA. 

The two principal marbles now imi)orted from this country are known 
commercially as Formosa and liouijard. Both are very beautiful stones, 
ranking among the finest now in general use. The first named is dark 
gray and wliite mottled ami blotched with red ; it is slightly fossd- 
iferous. The 13ougard has about the same colors, but is lighter ami tile 
tints are more obscure. 

LinnacheUe marble — This is a fossiliferous limestone in which the 
shells still retain their nacre, or pearly lining, and which when polished 
gives oft in spots a l)rilliant iridescent luster with rainbow tints ; the 
iiner varieties being seemingly set with opals. It is a beautiful stone for 

* Op. cit., p. 443. 

t Cause and prevcutioa of the decay of building stone, p. 27. 

t Hull, p. 230. 

^ Oj). cit., p. 33. 

8 Rep. of Judges, p. 148= 



480 KEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

inlaid worlv and elaborate ornaineutation, but is usually found only in 
small slabs. A variety quite commonly seen in mineral cabinets is of 
a dark grayish-brown color and with occasional brilliantly iridescent 
spots and streaks like those of the tine opal. It is brought from Blei- 
berg and Hall in the Tyrol in Austria. 

(7) ITALY. 

The quarries of the Apennines in northern Italy, near Carrara, Massa, 
and Serravezza, furnish marbles of a great variety of colors of the finest 
qualities and in apparently inexhaustible quantities. To give a full de- 
scription of these quarries and their various products would be to tran- 
scend the limits of this work. I shall therefore confine myself to a brief 
description of only those stones which are imported to any extent into 
this country. 

White statuary marolo. — This is a fine grained saccharoidal pure 
white stone, without specks or tlaws. On a polished surface it has a 
peculiar soft, almost waxy, appearance, entirely dilferent from the dead 
whiteness of the Vermont statuary marbles, to which it is considered 
greatly superior. It is brought principally from the Poggio Silvestro 
and Betogli quarries, that from the first named locality being consid- 
ered the best. The price of the stone in Italy varies from 15 to 40 lires 
per cubic foot in blocks of sntficieut size for an ordinary statue 5 feet in 
height. 

Ordinary white or hlocli marble. — This is usually white in color, though 
sometimes faintly bluish and veined. It is largely imported into this 
country, and used for monumental work. The variety from the Canal 
Bianco quarries is white, with faint bluish lines j that from Gioja quar- 
ries is fine-grained, and uniformly white and somewhat translucent, 
sometimes resembling gypsum on a i)olished surface. The variety from 
the Ravaccione quarries is faintly water-blue, while that from the Tau- 
tiscritti quarries is of similar color, but traversed by fine, dark-bluish 
veins. These stones sell for from 4 to 10 lires per cubic foot in blocks 
containing 20 cubic feet each. 

The veined marbles from the Vara and Gioja quarries are of a white 
color, but often blotched with darker hues, and traversed by a coarse 
irregular net- work of faintly bluish lines. The Bardiglio marbles of the 
ordinary' type from the Para and Gioja quarries are of a water-blue 
color, blotched irregularly with white, and far inferior in point of beauty 
to the justl3'-famed Bardiglio veined marbles from the Seravezza quar- 
ries. These are of a light-blue color, traversed by an irregular net- work 
of fine dark-blue lines, intersecting one another at acute angles. This 
stone is used very extensively in soda-water fountains, counters, and for 
j)anellings. 

The lied Mixed marble from quarries at Levante is also much sought, 
but works with difficulty and requires mucji filling. It is properly a 
breccia, comi)osed of irregular whitish and red fragments embedded in 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 481 

a reddish i)aste. It does not take a hij;ii polish, nor are its colors bril- 
liaut. The so-called Parmazo marbles, from the Miseglia, Pescina, and 
Bacca del Frobbi quarries, are all white or whitish, and traversed by a 
very coarse net-work of bhujk or blue-black veins. 

The Yellow or Siena marbles are, next to the white statuary, probably 
the most sought and widely-known of Italian marbles. Like the ma- 
jority of foreign colored marbles, they are exceedingly fine-grained and 
compact in texture, and take a high lustrous jwlish. The prevailing 
color is bright yellow, though often blotched witli slight purplish or 
violet shades. When these darker veins or blotches prevail to a consid- 
erable extent the stone is called Brocatelle. The most beautiful variety 
of the Siena marble is obtained, according to Delesse, from Monte Arenti, 
in Montagnola. It is of a uniform yellow color, but blocks of large size 
can be obtained only rarely, and these often bring a price as high as $G 
per cubic foot. The Brocatelle variety from the same locality is worih 
only about two-thirds this sum. 

The Portor or BlacTc and Gold marble. — This is, according to Delesse, 
a black silicious limestone, traversed by yellowish, reddish, or brown 
veins of carbonate of iron. It is brought chiefly from the Isle of Pal- 
maria, in the Gulf of Spezia, and from Porto Venere. A small amount 
is also produced at Carrara and Serravezza. Blocks of this stone in 
the National Museum show a good surface and high polish. It is 
a beautiful stone, and the name black and gold well describes it. The 
Portor marble, from the Monte d'Arma quarries, is a breccia of frag- 
ments of black limestone with a yellowish cement. This is inclined 
to break away in the process of dressing, thus rendering the produc- 
tion of a perfect surface impossible without much filliug. 

Black marble. — A fair variety of this material is brought from the 
Colonnata quarries. The stone is not so dark as the Belgian black, 
nor does it admit of so high a polish. 

Breccia marble. — The breccia marbles from Gragnanaand Serravezza 
I have never seen in use in this country, though they are stated to be 
imported to a slight extent. The first-named consists of small bluish- 
white fragments cemented closely by a chalk-red cement, while the 
second variety has both white and red fragments similarly cemented. 

The Yclloic marbles of Verona and Giagnana are entirely diflerent in 
appearance from those of Siena, being rather of a brownish hue, and 
taking only a dull polish. They are comi)act rocks, excellently adai)ted 
for decorative work. The so-called red marble from the Castel Poggio 
quarries is rather a chocolate color, dull in polish, but pleasing to the 
eye. 

Euin marble. — This is a very compact yellowish or drab limestone, 
the beds of which appear to have been fractured in every conceivable 
direction by geological agencies, after which the resultant fragments 
have become recemented by a calcareous or ferrugenous cement. The 
rock is therefore really a breccia, although the proportional amount of 
H. Mis. 170, p. 2 31 



482 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

cement is very small, and the actual displacement of the various par- 
ticles but slight. When cut and polished the slabs have somewhat the 
api^earance of mosaics, representing the rnins of ancient castles or 
other structures. Hence the name of " luin marble." The locality as 
given by Delesse, is in the environs of Florence, Italy, at the bridge 
of Eignaud, valley of the Siene. 

(8) JAPAN. 

Stone is but little used as yet in Japan for purposes of construction. 
Granite, trachyte, and trachyte-tuff are said to be used for foundations, 
temple stairs, gate-ways, sea-walls, and battlements, but the super- 
structures are nearly always of wood, this material being preferred on 
account of its cheapness. * A variety of marbles and other stones, suit- 
able for decorative purposes, are found in Mino and Hitachi provinces, 
and quite a complete series of these have been received at the National 
Museum. Those from Mino are white, reddish, blue gray, and nearly 
black, with white fossils. They are often beautifully brecciated. One 
of the finest varieties from Hitachi province has a nearly white ground- 
mass, traversed by a net- work of fine bluish lines like the Italian bar- 
diglio. Other colors are i)ure white, white with greenish veins and 
blotches, caused by a talcose mineral. There is also quite a series of 
dark greenish, sometimes nearly black, rocks, variously spotted with 
elongated crystals of black amphibole, and which are evidently steatite 
or agalmatolite. They are catalogued merely as marbles, and as yet no 
opportunity has arisen for an accurate determination of their mineral 
composition. 

(9) MEXICO. 

Mexican onyx. — This beautiful stone, which, however, is not a true 
onyx, but a travertine, occurs, according to M. Barcena,t in extensive 
deposits in several localities in Mexico, but that at present most worked 
is located in the neighborhood of Tecali, State of Puebla. As here 
found, the rock is interstratified with " argillaceous calcareous rocks," 
marls, and sands. It is of a fine even grain, close surface, and permits 
of a very high polish. Its colors are varied ; green, red, amber, yellow, 
through all shades to white, beautifully veined and mottled, are com- 
mon. It is translucent, and the colorless varieties quite transparent 
in slices not over one-fourth inch in thickness. I am informed by Sig- 
nor Aguilera, of the Mexican Geological Commission that slabs 2 feet 
ju diameter and one-fourth inch in thickness have been used as window- 
panes in the building of the University of Mexico, and with beautiful 
effect. The same gentleman also informs me that the ordinary varie- 
ties of the stone are so common and little esteemed in the vicinity of 
the quarries, that the rough blocks are utilized by the natives in build- 

* Official Catalogue, Japanese Section, Internat. Ex., Philadelphia, 1876. 
t Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1876. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 483 

\ug the walls of their houses. It was from this fact that the locality 
derived its name, " Tecali," meaning in the Mexican tongue a stone 
house, being from the two words tefl (stone) and calU (house). 

The collection of tliese marbles in the National Museum shows them 
to be the most beautiful of their kind known, excelling even the cele- 
brated " Oriental alabaster " from Algeria and Egypt. At present it 
is quarried only in an itinerant way, by the natives, who show wonder- 
ful skill in shaping it into small ornaments, which they sell to tourists, 
liough blocks of small size are shipped to New York, where they are 
sawn into tops for light furniture, and which bring very high prices. 
With the ox)ening up of railroads in Mexico we may expect systematic 
quarrying to be commenced, and that the price of the cut stone will be 
so reduced as to permit of its coming into more general use.* 

The composition of the lighter variety of the stone as given by Bar- 
cena is as follows : 

Per ceat. 

Lime 55.00 

Magnesia 1. 25 

Water, oxide of iron, and manganese G. 10 

Carbonic acid 42.40 

Sulphuric acid 1, 25 

(10) SPAIN AND PORTUGAL. 

This country possesses a great amount and variety of stone suitable 
for building and ornamental work, but, so far as we are aware, only a 
lew of the marbles and limestones are exported to this country and 
need be referred to here. 

There is stated to be a zone of crystalline marbles of white, yellow, 
and flesh color, which extends through the provinces of Estremoz, 
Borba, and Villa Vigosaj a black variety with white veins also occurs 
at Monte Claros. These are all susceptible of a good polish, and blocks 
of large size can be obtained. The beds belong to the Lauren tian 
formations. In Viauna, Alrito, Portel, and the mountains of Ficalho 
other marbles are found of the same general character. The rocks of 
the Jurassic and Cretaceous formations also furnish a large quantity of 
material for building and ornamental use. This is especially the case 
at Coimbra, Figueira da Foz, Ointra, and Pero Pinheiro. At Cintra 
the limestones have been metamorphosed by the adjoining granites, 
while those of Pero Pinheiro were likewise metamorphosed by the vol- 
canic rocks of the suburbs of Lisbon.+ 

One of the finest of the above-mentioned marbles, and one which is 
much used in the United States, is the yellow, from Estremoz. This is 
known commercially as Lisbon marble. In color and texture it is al- 
most identical with the celebrated Italian Siena, with which it favorably 

* Two beautiful large slabs of this stone may be seen among the Grant relics 
in the National Museum, 
t Port., Spec. Cat. Dept. i, ii, lii, iv, and v ; International Exhibit, 1876, p. 29-30. 



484 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886 



compares. A peculiar stone from this same locality is white with 
streaks and blotches of a blood-red color. It is more peculiar than 
beautiful. The marbles of P^ero Piuheiro are of mottled white and 
2)iuk — almost red — color, fine grained and compact. They are said to 
have been extensively used in Lisbon, where they have proved very 
durable. Other marbles that i)erhaps need especial mention are the 
breccias from Serra da Arrabida and Chodes, Saragossa Province. The 
first named is composed of rounded and angular pebbles of a gray, drab, 
black, and red color, embedded in a dull red paste. In a general way it 
resembles the breccia from Montgomery County, Md., but has less 
beauty. The Ohodes stone is composed of very angular fragments, of 
a black color, in a reddish brown paste. The proportion of paste to the 
fragments is very large and much filling is necessary in polishing. 
Fine, compact marbles of dull reddish hues, often veined with drab, oc- 
cur in Pannella province. Others that may be mentioned are the red 
and yellow mottled marbles of Murcia province, the black of Alicante 
province, and the black white- reined breccias of Madrid. A fine 
translucent alabaster is also included in the collections from Saragossa 
l)rovince. 

A very full series of these stones was exhibited at the Centennial 
Exposition at Philadelphia in 1870, and from there was transferred to 
the National Museum. 

D.— GRANITIC ROCKS. 

(1) EGYPT. 

Oranite of Syene. — The now well-known red granite, formerly called 
syenite, from near Syene, Egypt, and from which was constructed the 
numerous obelisks of the Egyptians, is represented in the Museum col- 
lections by a block some 10 inches long by 5 inches broad, and which was 
presented by the late Commander H. H. Gorringe. The block was at 
one time a portion of one of these obelisks, as it was found during the 
excavations preparatory to the removal of the obelisk now in Central 
Park, New York, from Alexandria. The rock, which is very coarse, is 
of a general reddish color and is composed of large crystals of red and 
whitish feldspars intermixed with clear, glassy quartz and coal-black 
mica and hornblende. Some of the red feldspars are very large, ex- 
ceeding an inch in length. The original source of the granite is stated 
to have been Upper Egypt, where it occupies large tracts between the 
first cataract of the Nile and the town of Assouan, the ancient Syene. 
It was quarried by the Egyptians as far back as one thousand three 
hundred years before the Christian era and has been fashioned into 
obelisks, sarcophagi, and colossal statues innumerable.* The block in 

*See Hull, op. cit, p. 51; also Gorringe's "The Egyptian Obelisk," N. Y., 18«2, or 
Jour. Geol. Soc. of London, Vol. vii, 1850-!.^)1, p. 9. 



BUILDING AND OKNAMENTAL STONKS. 485 

the ^luseum collections still shows the ancient curving- supposed to 
have been made ui)on it njjvvai'ds of three thonsand years ago. 

A fragment of a blue-giay hornbleiidio.grauite was also received from 
Alexandria with that described above. Its origiual source is not kuo^vn. 

(2) BRITISH PROVINCES OF NORTH AMERICA. 

New Brunsicicl-. — In the vicinity of St. George, Kings County, occurs 
an inexhaustible supply of a red hornblendic intrusive granite, which is 
beginning to be extensively worked, and which has been introduced into 
the markets of the United States, where it is known as" Bay of Fuudy 
granite." In texture the rock is medium coarse, very like that of 
Calais and Jonesborough, Mc, from which, however, it differs in depth 
of color and iu bearing hornblende in place of mica. It is tough and 
compact, takes a brilliant polish, and is apparently durable. An urn 
of this material in the National Museum is one of the most beautiful 
granite objects in the entire collection. The quarries now worked are 
situated about 2i miles from the town of St. George, where the rock 
occurs in rugged hills, and of varying shades of color from deep red to 
cream color or gray, the latter colors occurring in occasional large 
patches, 20 to 40 feet across, and of iudehnite length. The quarries are 
opened along the hillside, where the rock is very conveniently jointed for 
getting out large blocks.* 

Nora Scoiia. — Gray mica-bearing granites of apparently excellent 
quality, and varying in texture from medium fine and homogeneous to 
coarsely porphyritic are quarried at Shellnirne, and at Purcell's Cove, 
in Halifax County. These are exported to some extent into the United 
States. Two 12-inch cubes are in the collection of the National Mu- 
seum. 

{?>) SCOTLAND. 

The granites brought into this country from Scotland are the coarse 
red from Peterhead, and the gray from Aberdeen. Uoth are excellent 
stones and are used very largely for monumental work, door-posts, and 
pillars in all our cities and towns. In point of beauty they are inferior 
to many of our native granites, but their well-established reputation 
will probably cause their being used for many years to come. The 
Peterhead granite is stated t to weigh 105.!) pounds per cubic foot, and 
to be composed of quartz, orthoclase, albite, and black mica. The Aber- 
deen granite has the same composition, excepting that its triclinic feld- 
spar is oligoclase in place of albite, and there is sometimes present a 
little white mica. It is of this latter stone that the city of Aberdeen 
is largely built. A coarse gray granite with large, well-defined porphy- 
ritic crystals of [)ink orthoclase is also iini)orted from Shap, in northern 
England. None of these stones have any exact counterpart among the 
granites of this country. Six small turned and polished coliunns of 
these are in the National Museum. 



*Rop. of G. F. Mathew, Geol. Snrv. of Canada, I876-'77, pp. 345-349. 
t Bnildiug Coustruction, p. 20. 



486 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



E.— QUARTZ PORPHYRIES. 

Eussia. — From the Isle of Hoghlaud, in the Gulf of Finland, the Mu- 
seum has received a variety of quartz porphyries. These have mostly 
a dull red, very compact base, and carry large, nearly white, pinkish 
or reddish feldspars and glassy quartz in great profusion. The rocks 
acquire a good surface and polish, but are intensely hard. Other por- 
phyritic and compact rocks, variously called diorites, keratites, and 
porphyries, were received from the district of Katharinenburg, in the 
Urals, as noted in the accompanying catalogue of the collections. 

F.— SANDSTONES. 

(1) BRITISH PROVINCES OF NORTH AMERICA. 

Ontario. — On Vert Island, Nipigon Bay, in the northern part of Lake 
Superior, Ihere occurs an extensive deposit of sandstone of Potsdam 
age, in which quarries have been opened within a few years, and the 
product of which has already found its way into the principal markets 
of Canada and the Lake cities of the United States. The stone is of 
fine and even grain, not distinctly laminated, hard, and of a bright red- 
dish-brown color. It is said to occur in inexhaustible quantities, and 
tliat blocks as. large as can be handled can be readily obtained. 

An 18-iuch cube from this locality in the collections of the National 
Museum shows it to be one of the most attractive appearing of our red 
sandstones. It cuts to a sharp and firm edge, and every appearance 
would indicate it to be very durable, though possibly liable to fade 
slightly on exposure. I am informed that its hardness is such that it 
can not be sawn with sand in the usual manner, but must be cut either 
with diamond-toothed circular saws or b}^ means of chilled iron glob- 
ules. 

A thin section of the stone submitted to microscopic examination 
shows it to consist of closely compacted grains of quartz and feldspar, 
and an occasional shred of mica intersj)ersed with iron oxides, which 
serve as a cement and give color to the stone. The feldspars are often 
kaolinized and there is an occasional grain of calcite. 

New Bruns'wiclc and Nova Scotia. — Sandstones, varying in color from 
red to yellow and light graj" with an olive-green tint, are very abun- 
dant among the Lower Carboniferous rocks of Albert and Westmore- 
land Counties in the province of New Brunswick. They are, as a rule, 
soft enough to be readily cut when first quarried, but harden on expos- 
ure.* So far as the author is aware the only one of these varieties ex- 
tensively' used in the LTnited States is the olive-green from Dorchester, 
Hopewell, and neighboring localities near Shepody Bay, at the head of 
* Dawson, Acadian Geology, p. 248. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES, 487 

the Bay of Fundy. The' stone is of fine and even i;riiin, works readily, 
and has been nsed both in carved and i)hiin work witli ex(!ellent eifect 
in Kew York and neighboring cities. The author has had no o])i)or- 
tunity of investigating personally the weathering properties of the 
stone. By some it is chximed as very durable, whik^. Uy others it is re- 
garded as unlit for finely-carved work exposed to the atnios[)here. It 
is probable that sufficient time has not elapsed since its introduction to 
fully show its qualities, either good or bad. Sandstones of cpiite simi- 
lar appearance and of the same geological age are quarried in various 
parts of Nova Scotia, particularly at Saw Mill Brook, near the head of 
Pictou Harbor, These are exported to some extent to this country.* 
Owing to the fact that the Nova Scotia stone was the earliest intro- 
duced into our market, it has become confounded with that of New 
Brunswick, which it closely resembles, and it is customary to speak of 
all stone from this region as " Nova Scotia stone." As noted by J alien, 
how^ever, full 95 per cent, of th«^ imported mattn'ial is, in reality, from 
Westmoreland and Albert Counties, New Brunswick, 

(2) SCOTLAND. 

So far as I am aware, the only Scotch sandstones regularly brought 
to the United States are the Corsehill stone, from near Annan, in 
Dumfriesshire; the Ballochmile stone, fr^m Forfarshire, and a third 
variety from Gatelaw Bridge, about 30 miles from Ballochmile, in 
Dumfriesshire. 

Of these the Corsehill stone is of greatest importance. Samjiles in 
the Museum collections are of a fine and even grain, distinctly lami- 
nated, and of a bright red color. The stone is stated by the agents to 
have been first introduced into this country about 1879, since which it 
has been quite extensively used for trimmings and general building. 
It is regarded by Julieii t as a durable stone and well adapted for 
ashlar work, for carving, and for columns. The strength and chemical 
comi)osition of this stone are given in the tables. 

The other varieties mentioned are of the same general appearance as 
the Corsehill stone, and are used for the same puri)oses. 

As these stones are brought chiefly as ballast by vessels sailing Irom 
Carlisle, England, they are known commercially as "Carlisle stone," re- 
gardless of their true source, | 

There are in the Museum collections sam])les of other Scotch sand- 
stones from quarries in Morayshire, Nairn, Caithness, Sutherland, and 
Ross, These are all of a light color and seemingly possess no qualities 
to warrant their use in i)reference to matrrials obtaiiuible nearer honu\ 

*Daw8on, Acadian Geology, p. 345. 
t Rep. Tenth Census, Vol. X, p. 318. 
i Julieu, loc. cit. 



488 EEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

G.— SLATES. 

(1) CANADA. 

Slates of excellent quality, sinootli, boraogeneoiis, and strong, and of 
green, red, purple, and blue-blaek colors, occur in Richmond County, in 
the province of Quebec. These are now being quarried and are to be 
found in the principal markets of the United States. The leading 
quarries as given by Newberry * are those of the New Rockland Slate 
Company, the Melbourne Slate Company, the Rankin Hill Slate Com- 
pany, and the Danville School Slate Company.t Of these the writer 
has seen and examined only material from the New Rockland quarries, 
a large slab of w^hicli is in the National Museum. It is apparently of 
excellent quality. 

(2) GREAT BRITAIN. 

The finest roofing slates of Great Britain are stated by Hnll| to be 
derived from the Cambrian and Lowci' Silurian formations of North 
Wales. The Cambrian slates are stated to be generally of a green and 
liurple color, while those of the Silurian formations vary from pale gray 
to nearly black. The stone splits with wonderful facility into very thin 
sheets, and the quarries are especially favorably situated both for work- 
ing and for shipn>ent. Material from these sources has been sent to 
every quarter of the globe, and has been more extensively used for 
roofing than any other slate now quarried.§ 

* Report of Judges, p. 164. 

t Further details regarding the slate areas of Canada are given in Geology of Can- 
ada, 1863, pp. 830, 831. 

tOp.cit, 1^.292. 

§ For a detailed account of the Welsh slates and the methods of quarrying see Davies 
Slate and Slate Quarrying, Crosby, Lockwood & Co., London. 



Part IV. 



Appendix A. 

THE QUALITIES OF BFILDIXd STOXE AS SHOWN BY THEIR CRUSHING 
STRENGTH, WEIGHT, RATIO OE ABSORRTION, AND CHEMICAL COM- 
POSITION. 

(1) GENERAL REMARKS. 

The present methods of testing bnikVing stone are at best extremely 
unsatisfactory and the results obtained unreliable. In the majority of 
cases, indeed, no attempt is made to ascertain the resistance of the 
material to the action of lire, frost, or the general effects of weathering. 
This is due in part (1) to a lack of knowledge of methods by which such 
tests can be made, (2) to a lack of appreciation of the necessity of such 
tests, (3) to a desire on the part of quarriers to get the stone immediately 
upon the market without the delay necessitated by a long series of ex- 
periments, (4) to the expenses attendant upon such experiments, and 
(5) in altogether too many cases to a desire on the i)art of interested 
parties to sell the stone regardless of its qualities. Even the tests that 
are now applied are in many cases practically valueless, owing to a lack 
of definiteness in stating results, or our inability with our present knowl- 
edge to interpret them properly. Take for instance the chemical 
analysis of a sandstone as ordinarily given. This shows the presence 
of certain percentages of iron oxides, alumina, lime, and silica, but we 
have no means of knowing in just what conditi(n)s these substances ex- 
ist ; whether the iron occurs as a hydrous or anhydrous oxide, is con- 
fined wholly to the cementing material, or is a constituent of the vari- 
ous minerals composing the stone itself. The samii may be said re- 
garding at least a part of the silica, alumina, and lime. These diffi- 
culties may be in part avoided if the analysis is sui)plemented by a 
microscopic examination, whereby is ascertained tlie mineralogical nat- 
ure of the stone, its structure, and the freedom from decomi)osition of 
its constituent parts. And iiuleed as a rule it may be said that while 
the analysis of any stone is of interest in a general way, it fails com- 
I)letely to give more than an approximate idea of its value for construct- 
ive purposes. Any analysis should always be i)receded by a micro- 
scopic examination, and if the results of such examination should show 
it to be essential this should be followed by a pulverization and me- 

489 



490 EEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886 

chanical separation of the mineral constituents, which may in their 
turn be in part or wholly subjected to analysis. 

Strength and ratio of absorption. — The test of compressive sfreng'th 
is at the present time the principal test to which a stone is put to ascer- 
certain its adaptibility to any })articular kind of structural application. 
The value of the results are, it seems to the author, greatly oveiesti- 
raated. It is a rule among builders never to place a stone where it will 
be subject to more than one tenth the pressure it has shown itself capa- 
ble of bearing by actual exi)eriment. Even under these circumstances 
there is scarcely a stone in the market that would not be found when 
freshly quarried strong enough for all ordinary purposes of construc- 
tion. The problem is not what will a selected and carefully prepared 
sample of the stone bear today, but what will it bear after many sea- 
sons' exposure to heat and frost ? For all ordinary purposes of con- 
struction the excess of strength of any stone over 15,000 i)ouuds per 
square inch is of little value exceptiug so far as it denotes density, and 
hence greater resistance to atmospheric influences. 

The size of the cubes tested and the methods used in their prepara- 
tion are matters that need consideration in making comparisons of results 
in any series of experiments. General Gillmore found* that within 
certain limits "the compressive resistance of cubes i)er square inch of 
surface under pressure increases in the, ratio of the cube roots of the 
sides of the respective cubes, expressed in inches." Thus a series of 
cubes varying in size from one-fourth inch to 4 inches square were found 
to give results varying from 4,992 pounds to 11,720 pounds per square 
inch of surface. It naturally follows that ambitious dealers desiring 
any stone to show great power of resistance would select the larger sized 
cubes to be experimented upon. That the method of preparing a cube 
to be experimented upon is of moment will become apparent when we 
consider that in the process of dressing a small sample by hammer and 
chisel it becomes filled to a greater or less extent with small fractures 
and hence will break under less strain than though carefully sawn out 
and ground down to a smooth and even surface, t 

*Eeport on compressive strength, etc., of buildiug stoue, Aun. Rep. Chief of Engi- 
neers, 1875. 

+ The author ventures to submit the following scheme for testing stone in addition 
to the chemical methods already alluded to. It aims to accomplish in the course of 
a few weeks results such as w ould be brought about by natural weathering in per- 
haps as many years. 

Let six samples of the stone, all from the same bed and so far as can be determined 
all exactly alike, be selected and dressed by sawing and grinding (never by hammer 
and chisel) to a uniform size, say 2-inch cubes. From not less than three of these 
let the ratio of absorption be ascertained by weighing, immersing in water for not 
less than twenty-four hours, and reweighing. Take two of the cubes and ascertain 
their crushing strength when dry ; two more and in like manner ascertain their crush- 
ing strength when saturated with water, say after twenty-four hours' immersion 
though a longer time would bo preferable. Take the two remaining cubes and, 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL 8TONES. 



4yi 



The specific gravity or density of stone having- been considered by 
many as snfficieutly indicative of their strengtlito be authoritative, the 
series of tests given beh)w were made by Dr. Bohnie. Tbe results ob- 
tained seem to show that while with limestones this might be true, with 
sandstones such tests could not be relied upon. A moment's reflection 
will be sufficient to show us the cause of this, since the strength of any 
stone, which is but an aggregate of minerals, is necessarily dependent 
iu)t upon the hardness, density, or toughness of the individual miner- 
als themselves, but upon the tenacity with which they adhere to one 
another. (See ante p. 30(3.) 

(rt) Limestone with a specific f/ravify of 2.08. 





Five wet 
samples. 


Five dry 
samples. 


Lowest streugtb 


7, 154. 16 
9, 984. 54 


7, 267. 95 


Highest streuctli .. - 


10,581.91 






(h) Limestone with a specific (jraeitij of 2.70. 
1 . 



Lowest strength 8, 050. 22 

Highest strength 10, 738. 3(i 



Eleven wet 
samples. 



Eleven dry 
samples. 



8, 050. 22 
12, 515. 80 



(c) Limestone with a specific (jravity of 2.71. 



Six wet 
samples. 



Six dry 
samples. 



Lowest strength . 
Highest strength 



7, 19(), m 
12, 316. 72 



7, 879. 54 
13, ms. 60 



after careful weighing, saturate them with water, and suhject them to freezing and 
thawing by artificial temperatures; weigliing them again, at the conclusion of the 
experiments, to learn the loss of material, if any. After the freezing tests are con- 
cluded the same cubes should, in their saturated condition, be submitted to crushing 
tests. By a comparison of the results thus arrived at it is believed a better knowl- 
edge of the durability of any stjoue could be obtained than would be possible in any 
other way than by the actual exposure of the stone for a period of many years. 
Where stones are to be subjected to the action of the acid gases of cities or liable to 
be subjected to high temperatures from burning buildings, artificial atmospheric and 
fire tests can readily bo applied after the plan ado[)ted by Professor Winehell (Geol. 
of Minn., fiual rep., Vol. i). The actual cost of such a scries of experiments need not 
necessarily be gr<!at after the apparatus has once been established. Had such a series 
been inaugurate!!! b^' the National GoverniiuMit years ago, we might have been spared 
the iniliction of the painted walls of the White House aud Capitol. 



492 



REPORT UN jNATIoNaL MU8EUxV1, 1886. 
(rf) Limestone with a specific gravity of 2.72. 





Five wet 
samples. 


Five dry 
samples. 


Lowest streiii'th . .. .-- -- 


9, 073, 27 
15,033.71 


9, 000. 50 


Hi"hest strength . . .- 


14, 934. 15 






(e) Sandstone with a specific gravity of 2.54. 




Wet sam- 
ples. 


Dry sam- 
l>les. 


No. 1 


12, 487. 40 
15, 488. 80 


13, mS. 60 


No. 2 


14,607.02 










Wet sam- 
ples. 


Dry sam- 
ples. 


No. I 


10, 1G9. 44 
18, 518. 24 


9, 700. 10 


No. 2 


18, 902. 37 






{g) Sandstone with a specific gravity of 2.59. 




Wet sam- 
ples. 


Dry sam- 
ples. 


No. 1 


8, 932. 04 
11,051.27 
17, 224. 45 


9, 700. 10 


No. 2 


11,349.56 


No. 3 


16, 754. 40 







See Am. Arch., November 4, 1882, 

(2) MODULUS OF ELASTICITY. 

By the term modulus of elasticity is understood the amount of force in 
pounds requisite to stretch a bar of any material linch square to twice 
its original length, provided the rate ot stretch could continue uniform 
throughout the trial without the breaking of the material. The modulus 
of rupture is the force requisite to break a similar bar 1 inch square 
resting upon supports 1 inch apart, the load being applied in the mid- 
dle. 

So far as the writer has been able to learn, but few tests of this nature 
have been made upon stone. The following are from the report of Mr. 
T. H. Johnson.* 

* Eep, State Geol. of Imiiaua, 1881, p. 45. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



493 



It will be noticed that there is a strong discrepancy iu favor of sawn 
over tool-dressed stone. 



Kind of stone. 


Modulus of 
rupture. 


Modulus of 
elasticity. 


Crushing 
streugth. 


Oolite limestones, Indiana, tool dressed* 

Oolite limestones, Indiana, sawnt 

Granite, Hallowell, Me., tool dressed t 


1,477 
2,338 
l,754i 
479 

2,825 


2, 679, 475 

4, 889, 480 

2,511,800 

398. 234 

6, 300, 000 


7,857 
12, 675 


Sandstones, Ohio, sawn J 




Compact limestones, Indiana, sawu || 


16, 312 





* Average of twelve determinations, 
t Average of four determinations. 
t Average of two determinations. 



$ Average of five determinations. 
II Average of four determinations. 



494 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



2 ooo ooo oooo 
I fi p fi POO OP P P 






o a o o o o 

p £ PPPP 



P O 



PP-g^ 

So 



2 a 



9 t-i'S 

03 _ fl 

m P- S 



a a tn 
•23.9 



c 2 » 

•S S g 

©J o 



O tfO ^ c fcf 



~Xi a 
,2 n 



<1 W 



- == . _ 
fct o « o <o 

h p M 

!> ^ n 

<1 « 



5s on 



? t-.-S-^i 



it 

4> O 



w 


br 


rt 


a 
















a 


1; 








OJ 




TS 


- 


o 


■- 


is 


o 



« ^ <E S 3 ® >-2 i 

-5] <^ 'p^ PM ■< f 



bC-^-O o 

O O M 









MM 



+3 C3 






O ^ "^ CO 



lA t^ 00 

c4 ci ci 



CD 'O O CO ^5 



OOO 
CD CD O 
CD O l> O O 

c4 c4 ci c^i c-i tri c^i 



ooooo 

C^l CO CO o 
t~ CO to CO 

ci ci ci ci 






trt o o o o 
Ci lO o ir^ uo 
^ CI O l~ tr- 

Qo'^r»£rcD''o" 



00 lO CO o c 



O r-* -. 

lO CO c— — 

c: o o :d 



com 
locd 



o irt 

Ift CO 

coco 



CO o -^ o 
.^ O CO o 
O Oi-HlO 









f53 bl>;- b£.:3 



q; © © 



M Cl W CJ C5 <N 



03 C3 03 C3 C5 03 

CI cq 'M ci if3 irf t£> irf id tft ci 



%- "S c S 



2 ^ ' 

a I »3o| 



M o ^ 



a S 



O o 



rs S 'a'a-O'^ 



.2 M 



P^ P 



fl a S cj 



■s a 
- . §«&»= 

■2^' a S.5 

q o tat.2 

own 



o o 
PO 



« £ 



o © c o 

SPPP 



p p 



BUILDING AND OKNAMENTAL STONES. 



495 



P P P O Q ft S 



p p« p 



5;^ 



6 c 6 6 6 dd66ce2 
PPPP P PPPP^^ 

So 







; tt 






















M '• 










• >> ■ 


^ 


















































i • M 








"3 ! 


-^ 




• M 










fcl • bt 


























■^ ' a 












■ a 










a : a 






' 






























S 




rM 








c 


3 15 






























; ■= c« 














OS 








































































e 


















•a .H« 




tl 












P,o : o 










c 


















y dashe 

determ 
withou 




a 


^ : 




a o a 








: ■ P 






:3 

cctta 
























s 
-= 


so ■ 
ta ; 


a 

tM 

o 


111 






1^ ; ? 








^ 
c 


















ongl 

two 
enly 




.S 


>. '. 














o 
























to °'« 

© =1 




? = 


s ; 


■9^ 










daw 

sudt 

sudci 
































-Si 


.^ ®^ 












03 -« 




" 






















a: 


tj/4 c 








,i^M 'M 




S^ 




« 


















§ |2 




C3 


^ '. 


SJ 


(4 h t< 








C8 O ■ O 


- 




Mw 




cc 


















O -^M 




'O 


fq : 


P 


owu 








c«n :m 






-E-g-S 


o 


•1 


i i 


: -i 


JS-l 


' i 


I i 








-c 






-^ i 


"i -1 










-E 
































. 
























CO Ck ai O) ■«*• csi t^ 




c^ 


^ 


^ 


■* 00 


t- 


t- 










(M t- 




(M OO 


CO 


lO U5-*0- 


'. OS 


■^ (D tD CD -* CO (TO 
CO CO CO CO ^ CO o 






c^ 


CO 






(M 


c 


^ 




CO 


COQC 


»n 


to toci OOO 




CI Clio to 


■ to 














tc 




t^ 




t£ 


tots 










• to 


""""'""" 






































^-1 










m 


CO 




o 




o 


O US 


o • 


to to lOO i-l 


o 


o o c 


o 














«S 
























tO» too to !0 O 


to 


CO 


to 


to 


to to 


to 


r- 


t~ 




to 




to 










CI 


CJ 


CJca 


C^ 


^^ 


e^ 


c. 


<r4 


M 


(M 


ct 


C-i 


o 


IM 


(N 


e4 




<M 


(N 




CI J 


(M {MCJCIM 


c 


OCICJ 









OOtOt^OIOOlOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCO(3 000t^O o 



1 CI r:! o c« * 



l*-1^C50^tOTl*OCIOiOOC3C4t-- 



O O CD »0 lO lO O O lO o o o m O O 'O CI o o m Irt >c : 



t^ c^ to o »o t^ l^ — t^ '■^ O CO t' t^ I> C5 CJ CO 



l£SOOOOOOOOW*t- 

t^iooinmt^oor^QOooco 

COClCCCJC^COC4iOl-~tOt-(OS 



T*»".^*"Tj<'rHOOO'««J*oototooooototoir:)4rjcoiOf-iintoioc;co«ccj05tocst^Ti<io05 m 

^rtt-H^rtCliHdCJi-l-MCldClWCJClWOlMCIC) — i-Hi-lr-lrHr-li-li-liHrH i-H 



CI 00 irt C) CI CO »-^ C4 00 -^< t^ -<* 
i-Ht-(r-iCI»-(T-H»H^rHi-(rH.-l 



• -a ^"d ■« t: MtJ btT3 bt-3 ttr^ bt-— bin- -s btr^ btr— ttrg -^.^-^bi:. .-— bo's bo 



N C^ M C^ i?« C^ C^ C3 C-1 CJ « CJ 



<°9 



•Jj O^^ 3 O^ 



W3 



o _- o 
3 j? 



.3 

45 « 



to-* .-I 
O CICICJ CI CI CI CI i^ t-^ to to" t- c> 






'•< ° 2 



■O I-, OT3 



P4 o> 



:= a 

"3 .2 



■ n^ bt— ■— btT3 "S 



(M <M iM C<l CI CI (M C4 CI 






'5 "to 



'fcH © 

__ o a 






M ; 
'A ; 



o cs>-i pel 



'A^ 



fiPPpopP 3 P 



P P Q « P 



•5 B 



s a 
.2 2 

« o 



Soft; 



© *- tc 



2i; ..PP 
'3-B 



pa w o o 



496 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 






5 P Q O 



O p p p Mg 



t>i (i E*: Ph >; a >i ci >-. a 

. . . .bC-tt-QC-tli-tJD- 

HHH ooo ©CO oQO ooo ©00 

Qir-4 ^^1 QJr— I ^r— I ^i— ( 

O c5 i O O 



cS O S -w rt 

« 4^ fe d a 

<D 'S (D ^ © 

o >^ jg'a c 

^ "3 - © E: 

o ^ = 3 o 

»^ 5 ® J ^ 

iC =" bt,5 St 

a; ffl c3 --^ OS 

i^ Z t. o (- 






<i w 



CS.2 ?,- 



o o 

5.35 
> » s 



M 



« a . 

O fc; fl 



JS 



-g-?-g-g-^ 



Jw riN -^ 



t- t- 00 O 00 00 



to a> .^ m CO tj! o 

O O 5D O ifi <o o5 00 
CO CO iC to CO to CO CO 



■"S* M <M 



IM (M (N IM 



5-i (N 



o t- o o 
« oi CO CO 



O O O lO 

lo 10 to CO 



CO O O E- — OO O O 3 oo = o 
T-H lOOOOr^'OiCiniO'^ioomo 

05 l^U5i-^COC^lC<IC^lC^li:'t^rJ(NlO 



(M lO !> I> O O O 
i-H I> 00 00 o o >o 
00 t* CO t>o o t* 



C^05t^t^I>COCOCOOOtOCO<-' Tj< 
1-1 rt IMMeaCJCNIM IMIMN C^ 



iOii< o OS cci ■>* 1-1 CO 



aw 



r^ fel-a bC-OfTS SItS M-- bsjr^ MtS i^ 

© '^ © *5 © © "w — '^ ^ "^ © 'O © © 



C^C<1C<1IM ffa <M IM(M tg i-l 






05 C«(N(Mja 



£ 3 



>> ;Z( 



S 8 -= 









H « !z; 



©>■ o 

© -1 ci; 4j 
5 g ci © 



fi -2 



"S ■ S ■ a 2 i; ^ ^2 

G? 'i-q .fu c5 Iz; td 3 



O I S op o 



W P O O P r-) P 



3.ti 


2a-|p5 


"S a 


" S £ 






Sc 


all 


h;p 


■P P Hi 



p p p p 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL «TONE8. 



497 



"sod 



rS 









p p 



p p 






p5 



H-5 -TS -^ 



S 5;= -S 



o a 



O) X 




t> S k o 



rJ^ - 


o 


^^ 


?-5- 


H- 


5;„w^„o 


"S 










-S-^S-g 


-S 


"H 


"IS 


-£ 


-5 


-s 


h; 


^ 


o CO oa « OS CO 


oa 










coco 


CO 


to 


^ 


CJ 


■* 


■* 


CO 


t^ O u'S ri 'M t- CQ O -* CD 

CO -^ >^ -^J" O -^ O "* '^ CD 


s 










toco o> 
■«< ■* o 


tH 


c4 


CO 


to 


o 
to 


fe 


■* 




















to 


<o 










s^s 




CI 

to 


o 


o 

OS 


to 
o 




o 

CO 




















. 


C5 










IM (MM 


C-l 


w 


CI 


C-l 


CI 


c^ 


CI 



O 3 X O lO O i.O O 
O O CI O T 1 »0 Ci «0 
I> u-2 to >n ■-* 1^ CC CI 

00 «" ci" to" o" to' » -o" 



IL'TJin oooooooooooooo 

soot- 00<OOir5 0Z3iOOOOinOO 

3 c) -^ cj o o o CI cj o cJ t^ t^ lO r_^ '-o o 

"t-^cT »-rci"io'io"to'"to'co~coo"c^rQd"to"oro'" 

rH i-«rtClC<lrHrHC)C^r-IrtrHr-( iH 



M - .3 



-T3 -3 -^ 



M W W 



"^ M-3T3 rs S1>TJ M— iaCiTS tt^ S^tS =*3 ^ 



OSCi050>CSC5GOOCiOSCiCiOi05<»050i05 



3& 



; : ; ; i : a 



a .3 .g 
t - ^^ 



Q 2 



oooooooo 

pppppp;; M 



'i 

c 
c 


1 








o M : 

■ 
o 
o 


c 


■K. 


'^ 


O 


^ : 1 1 a r -2 
3 :>-] f^ M P^ Ph 
















• 'to 








^ 




























• ^ 








^ 












o 












































































1 












: ^ 








r^ 












V 














































Q 


. 










a 










o 



•9 ^ 



M a 



p p 



P P Q 



E, Mis, 170, pt. 2 33 



p 1-1 



498 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



2S 



o P< 
•2oS 



- M^ - - - - 



"V^nHcI 



t3.9 



O'S 



■a 3 

=2 't^ 



' V iz • V r: V 
ooooofcePoMcM 

Si l1 . (& P O 



a . 


^M 




« a 


"■S a 
2"S 


■S-S 




3 ca 


T3 2 


*« © 


® S, 


£^ 


a^ 


c 


a-S 






•S ^ 


t^ 


-So 


S'^ 


S !=i 


■S o 


Ph 


fH 



S 'Tt- -<*< -V (D O l> t^ to CO CD O CD ;0 CO CD ^ tr- »0 



NiM-^ooiftioooooosose 



^ -"^-^co CM 



_ _ _ SOO 00 05 05 CO CO F _ , .. 

SCOt^t't— t'CDCOCDCOCOCOCOCOCDOO 



SfE.-=a 



^SCOt^t^rHOlAi-HOOSCOt-tOOOOOCMC^CO 



lTHt>Oiftt:~<M050iO(NOfriCOO 



< r-l C^ C^ CI rl rH tH rH »-l f-t I-* i-H .-H i-H r-i 



rO tCr^f^ fcCr^ UJn:; tlDtf tlC-^ bS^f^ tJCr^ 

pi3WfqpqHP3WP9WP3HpqWM«afq 



M M 



w « 



;e<IWC<lC^C<10«NCl(NNC^O«NC<l(N(MlM 






3-5 



oo 



M :c5 



H a :^ 



;oo-Sooo©«5oo«oo^ 



^ a 



i a 

.2 3 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



499 



Q p p a a 













■« : 


ii 














































n 
































































































































































































































a 




a o 


^ 


































































































fl 




°1 I 


Ty 














































bi 




















































p. 


































































































>i 


0) 


K cB "S.S •- .3 
























a 




















with quiet 
with sligh 
s. 

kably solid 
thout ciac 
ot two tiia 

HIS- 

thout ciat 








































.2 

Is 

a a 
1^ 








o 
o 


O I 
















IS 

1 

CO 

o 










1 




•-1 OJ 


n ■•B'TSii ij'" 0,-a: •: 










n 














o 










a 






© 


jrsjaja rt 2-w -2 ?!*i 






rt 


^. 


















































































> > 
























c 






o :::)i:) <*?5<^ « 






< 


<J<1 
















O 










K 












^ 




























IS 












H 






-5 




1^-S-S-S 


; -r 


^ -r 




- -« -2 -" "" - 


• -S-S-S-S IS -« -^ HS 






OOC- OOOJCC o 


lO 




X CO M « 




00 




-. M 


C5 




ca 


T). -fllCOCO 


«0 






















oc 


l. 


cc ^^ 


OC 


t- 




•*■-♦( ift lO 


o 


















^ ^ CO -^ 




cc 




r^ 't 


1-H 










cc 


- 


M* 












































_, 






■ ^ 




c= 


o o o in 


o- 


o 


o: 


O 






















































CO 




o- 




















CQ M CI lO IM N rt CI 


^' 




CI CI CI r 


CI 


CI 




.-H c 








ClCICl c 


C4 




c^ 


(Ti 



^ O t- w r> 












CQpqw;q 



oioomoocooooo 

Gs t-- »rt !>• lO O flO O lO '"' O 
I— O CI L-- t— O 05 t- C^4 00 •— 

.-1 nH ri Tvl l-H i-H 



r-j bX^ U-- fct'C bt-^ fcOr; Wir;; bCr- hCr^ fcc-c fcCr^ bCr^ bjc-^ ^^^^t::^ "^ ^'^ ^ 

q,)T3 oj'^ c^ uj"^ c'w (1''^ ©'^ OJ'C o;"^ ©"O a)w aj'« cj*^ 4> ©■« oj'w 



0)00 09 OOO 

irjirjifi<oococ^cic3ci 



J CJ ci Cl CJ 



Cl CI CI d CI CI CI 



M M CJ CJ e<ic«oe<i woi n cj 



ron o S OBJ 



o d g d 



S O ,- 

6s MO 

ffl a S S = 

-3 ~ ,j p" . 



a a 



3 .-I 



I i iSwa 



0-5 

.9 
W 



.s ce .— !« 



"i. oi O © O 

3 „-c^« 



^ o 



P H M f^H 



3 a OOOOOO u ^ 

2 2 QPPPPQ P P 



H^ X 



ft .01 ^ C 



S ^ 



P p P P P 



Q PPPP -s 2 P 



Of 00 



500 



EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



a J a; 

5 2 3^ 

O Ph b 



a o o o 



O ® 



aa 



:« '.< 



**r2 



t><) 



a ^ 



o P< 









'•s ",o 






j m Cr^ lO -^ lO 






lOlOOOOO 



-*^ C8 . 
® oo a 



o o o o o © 

<M (M CO ^ 0> !M 
■<*)•* ^ -^ CO -^ 



ot-oooooooom 

r-lT-HC^COC^IC^1COCOr~.-(W 

ci ci M cj cj IJ c^ t^i c4 c^ c4 






2cOOO"^>OCOOWCCt> 



ir3'4<c-oooo^romTO>o.-i »-i io<n 

00 00 00 CD iC 00 05 O; 00 t> ■^ TQ iO (M 03 






05 f- O O O CO l> t~ c 



• inco CO 



oooo 



CO 00 c<j cq T-H 



13 "d Mn3 be'otr^ tCr^ 

fq cq WPawWPaWPP 



.r— btr^ bt-i U-3 bUn h£-3 r— t;-3 
' OJ "^ ID "O © "^ © TS © "^ © © © © 

;pqpdplt:^caHMHMW« 03 pqw 



Ci OS y O »0 O '^ Tt* O •* lO o 

(^^e^c^cqc<^c^l-^l-^eq■-^(^l(^ll^l(^ll^^(^l(^^^ql^>cqc<^cocococ^c^;ocococo:o^C(^>e<l(^>M 



w w 



"*^ cS' 



:3 ; >'a 



el 









O ©OOOOO O OOOOOOOQOOOO o oo o 

Q Qaqppp 9 pqppqpqePQpo p pp p 



oooo 
PQP« 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



501 



o o o o 



:-4! "S-S 



00 in o 



OS <ooi ^ t 



i 


bXTd 


1^ 




o 


e-ic) 


e<no w 



•a-^ 






<o .J p p - 









o o o o o o 



502 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 







^ 


i -i 


iD~— : 




1 






>i & f5 e. .a o 








a >> a >>E+i 
o b ® boa a 








■§2 Is a 

>1 CLi-* t^ a-'T ^^ 




1 


.^ 






P 


tm c- M t- o 


oa 







_0 ,^_0 ,J0 ;^ 




<1 


e 


feat: fee t^i^^ 1 




■< 


a c3 o a J8 2 o 


- 






£ f. p,5 t> p,S 






p^ 


a a O 




CJ 


~ 












(M 














O 












pg 


cc 












mS 














«« — 














S 














;^ 


o 


O i-( o 


O 


c 




t- o o 


c- 


-w 








c« 


cc 






^ 




rH .-t i-( 


^~* 


(i 


t* 




lO 






n 


m 




m 


















a 


^ 




CO 






c 
























^ 












CO 














d 


a 












o . 


o 






"S 






S£ 


o 






5«. 






bra 








o 

ci 






a 














m 


CO 


H O 


o 


M 


S <o 


-* 


O 03 


cc 


CO 


10 H 


cc 


.2 cm 


00 


in 




gS 






Ph® 










IS 





























o © 


t- 












"^S 


o 












•So 














'A 














o 


o 












M 














o 












° R 














^ o 














O 














s 


« 


in in c 


in 


o 




in 


IS 


o- 


o t-: If 


oi 




m 


■* CO o- 










^ 








■i 


ec 


lO e<i c 


at 


o 


>A o «: 




i 


<= 


r-i irf C 


CO 


-* 


Tjl Tf Tj 


•«< 








a) 












Cm 












>; ^ 


' > 




IS 




1 ^ 

O b 






P' 


:; 






"c 




> g 




c 




-S ► 


> 


oi 


c 




2 '= 


> c« 


■2 

o 


c 




: g p 


5 o 


"^ 


5 i; 


■> ^~ 


l-( 


t 


cS d c 


i * 


■ P3 


i 


-S h5 S 


5 ? 


o 




a o" c 


3 a 


• « 


tl 


-2 -s ^ 


3 a 


B 


_c 




3 C 

J -a 

r .5" 

i 1 

3 © 


1 


2 
r 

^ 




c 


^ & " i 


I t- 




4 


r S » 


3 O 




1 


a ^ a 1 


3 .a 






J g ■■§ t 






t 


a a 




1 


J -S © 


0) 




I 


^ § & £ 


^ & • 




J 


§ P 


1 a 




3 « 


? 











CJ 


^ 


in 






05in 


.-HOod 


a 




Oi 


■ 


0> 00 O O 03 o> 




p, c 


p. p<p,(iei.P< 






00 


> 


oo" oo'od'ocroo'oo 


5 






r> 




r^ t~ t- t^ t- t- 








a 


s 


00 oooooooooo 










4^ 




o 




>. 


a) rt 


o 


ee" cf cf cf c3 cS 


> 




ts 


>■ ^ 


a 


a a Fa a a p 






E 


o ^ 


a 


CO c4 c4 c^ c? n 


a 




3 


a^ 


c 


'3 ^ ^ 'S ^ ^ 


^ 




55 


s 


a a a a a p 


o 

M 




•tM 


<w 


tH IV. t„ -^j ;« t« 


tM 




P o 


O 


O O O O O o 


O 






«ri falj bc biQ (5 bt ec bt bt bc btco Q 


















"o'e 


"c 


o o o o o o 


0-* 




S « 




© 43 ©03 © V 


SCO 




PhO 


e 


Cj OOCtJOO! 


a 








tn 


CO 


O M lO ! O O O lO 








« 


ce'^ 


Tji r^ m • '«# lO o i> 






(-■••-a 




ci 


r^O 


OOO «OOrHO 






o o te 






O 


el 






3 ;a 

O «8 






m 








o 




a 


*o 


f^oo-^-nooo 






^1 




o 


COCJ-^fMC-lOOOXO 
O O O r-i O O O Ci 






r^ 






o 












fM 








x 














fee 


NO 

o>3J 
cqeo 




cD(Mt-eDooinco 


r^ 




15 




OiOJlOtOCOOOOQO 
O C> rH im" O 1-5 G> .-1 


c<- 




^1 














o o 


to 


ooininiHOOo 


(N 


CO 


OOi 


CO 


int-tob-cot-iojin 


c- 


CO 


2 S S 


Nl« 




o o o i-J o in in t- 




CO 






(N 






-3 a ph 












i/3"< 










^ 


• 




c 










OtJIOO o 






lis 




c 








e^rt •* t- 1- 










t- 










C4 O W CO r^ 






52 « 






















o 




























o 


t- 


00 rH 










CO ■* 


1 




^s 


c 


09a> 

^oo 














c 






















o 


^ 














I 














c 






ooooooc 






o 














O Ort OlO<= 






•a 


■g 






o 








-H rH o r-5 ei PJ 






o 


















, 




I3<H IS 








o 






i = &=e 






c 


cor-io5in aocoo* 




o 






m 


.H— Ir-lOO goOCO 


e^ 


t- 


5^a 






-* 


oooo^co-«i<c 


._ 


ri 






»" 




Tl 


■>* 


atH 

5 O 53 


ooc 


t- 


oo-^oo— IO<C 


(^ 


£5 




Ci IT 


ot 


coooin-^r-tt^c^t- 

^oinoio6c<i-^c^ 
*05 0»oomoot-<c 




•4 


00 ■« 




IT 


in 


















^ • 
























t>l I 
























E: ; 








oj 
















ce . 








_* 
















a-r! 








lo 
















ca 








t; 
















ffilH 








a 
















s! a 

btcs 








.a 

4) 
















^fM 






















-3^ 

cot» 


c 
1- 


i 


:i 


^ 








t3 




^ tJ 


. y. 


•-1 


O 










c 


13 c3 
5fl 


_5 


\ 


> ca 


O 


p 


r: 




; ^- g a M t-.^ ^ c 
,o a -a a S « o 
© ft o g o o ts^ ; 
FQMtiS'^.^ t;P. 


I 


3 


■n 


d''" 




^-^.2>g§5 4 




' 9 


a 

c< 

00 

a 

O 


°1 




lilfBII 


< 
£ 


1 


OJ 


a a 




3 a a a a a a g"! 


a 




0C2000_0^ 


1 


i s 

3 03 




ll 




tnro'oD'aDaaajocc 


c 


3 a 


\A 










aaaaaaS:^ 











H 


3c 


1 


K 


H 


Jh 


ill 


H 


53h 


\d 


% 


3 s 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



503 



-■ » 



3 Q 

s I 



o o 



OR QCpqQPQpqoq 







§1° 

-1 








5 


Organic 

matter. 

0.80 


o 

■So 

-h 




O 00 ^ 10 —1 (M Ot 

•n iia jw ^rj jfi 5to jd ^r- 

rt,cc,3.c3.c5.ca,c3 « 

ooo o o o c^o o 




5 




















^?3 








0.02 
0.15 
0.02 






3 £ 

o c 


■o 




o 






00 ■* 


CO 

o 


o '■ 






























30 

o 




1.20 
1.70 

16.22 

29.93 
14.45 

13.39 
13.85 

13.06 
25. 51 

39.33 

3.45 


7.35 
8.54 
4.52 
6.33 
6.32 
2.93 
9.89 
12. 00 








. 








to 
m 








50 








4.92 
0.33 
0.37 












<» 










o rj 


o o 
w us 

"f-J o 


1 










o o- 


1 














1.11 

1.77 
0.96 






§ 


•S 


















S 5 








, 


0.33 
0.37 
0.55 
















o 

CO 










1 

o 




5 
o 




o 


o 






o 


o 




o 

5 

«5 




O 


1 

CO 




t^ 


IT 




in 

« 


to 

o 

■^ 






93 
-* 

?5 




CO 
CO 




o 
■^ 


00 

CO 


CO 
CO 




CO 

in 

■* 




o 
e 




o 





lO C) CJ t- t-) 



^^ 



^5" 



.§.§ 




9 a 


e 


o 






a 


a 


a n 


















a fl 

btSB 
c3 c« 


1> 

a 


a 


aa 










^^a 


>A 


Hi 


mh) 



* lO CO -^ 



O f-4 ■* 



to U? lO O 



:a 3 a 



n 


O 


o 


4) 


a 


a 


C« 


:^ 


<o 








C3 


a 

q 


w 


a 


S 


.g 


M 


R 


a 



f^'tH 



a 


cS-3 

M3 




^ w 1-1 2 

_ «2 


eous limestt 

). 

c limeatono 

quarry) . 


a a 


a 
o 


limestone 
limestone 
limestone 
limestone. 


o o 


o 


o — a^o^o— . 


2 C^' 
















:a ^ S o 


a a 


a 




i&^3 


"3 o 


o 


O 30 S rj 3 

"3 CTo cr"© Co o" 


<( « 


OP 


p 


P P P P 



^ p: 



aSa a 



^. 3 

cJ ^ 

I .3 



P P P H? h^ 



504 



' EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



o 

I 

cc 
Q 

to 

O 

I— I 

o 

O 

02 

o 

H 

DD 
O 

iz; 
o 



1^ 



S3 s 
lis 



« in^ 

P^rH O 

.a to -2 
Mod M^ 

O O O p, 



o -g o o 
1 o^ ° f o^ 

O o |£,^ °,2 fi 



'3^ 



5a 



lf3 O ■* 



QQ 
O 

o 
o 

h:] 
o 

h- 1 
1^ 



B t-i 0) 



53 ^ 



O O .3$ 



r1"S- 



COrH CO "* 



O 

w 

CO 

to 
H 

.P3 

<j 
H 



Ci P< 



o a « ta 



« M 



^ CC ^ 



0,^ 



3 S 



BUILDINO AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



505 





^ 








„- 
























p- 






t^ 






o 




oc 








CO 






"o 








!s ^ 




. > 






(9 




s^ 




S ° 




M^ 




© ^ 






• o 








*=!*> 






CS 








1 










1 1 ^ 




J d* JJ Jis 


o 










J!J ^ ^^ ,-j«^ 




5 ;^ ^ 




o = o o On a 


'S 


p: 


-d >s 




t> ^ ;>t> >o" 


<i 


c< 


- :§ g: 




^- *J -g-*r .^-P^'B 






1 1 






q g g a o^« 








a a aa s|a 












O © ® © <B O « 




< 

C 




'« 

3 








>> • o"" — C3 f^c 


c 






f^Pi.'-^ 


>';P 


P 




"c 




-2 




"o "3 'o'o "o.-S^- 




I 






O 53 © 4) cl>^~ . p. 




e 




















o 














to 








o 








o oo 












CO 


o 




























to 


o 








CO 
























o 




























C5 


I-] 






























o 
















o 
























1§ 










<= 




c 


.2 t;°o 
11 = 
Mis • 
























53 *« 
















oa 
























c 


















© 
































oc 


c 


••-* 


o 




















c3 p ^ 










?j 






do 


C3 




















O a » 












c 


a 


S 


































p. 


o 
a 




































"3 


































72 


a 




















'® . 


If 


lO 








c 




e> 


to 


11 

11 


o- 


«5 




1? 


^ 


fr 


00O5 O O OOlO 


















CO ca 00 CO cc <D o 


""l- 




CT 


■^ 






■— 


c 




.CI 


o 


« 


8 




i 


^ 


i 


■ ' -#■ -H O i-i -^ 
























HI 




in 
















CJ 


ir 


lOon 








o 


in a> 


o 


o> 


oo 




t-CTC] 






rt 


to 


ci in 


CO 


o 


o 




c> "o 








ci 


ci 




'^ 


■^ 


O.iiS 






















a 


























M 
















-t^O 




£, 




fl- 


T 


o 


CD CO 








CO «o 


<£ 


■wo> o ^ 






CO 


O t-Cl 








CICJO* 


c 


ocoirfc^ 




■^ 


o 


-d^ -^ CJ 








■o<= 




■*•* 








Tjl -^ 










<«<« 






















O o 






















u 












-♦^ . 










<o ■« 


d ^ 


u- 


O CI CI .- 


ee 




C5w*.o-<com^otoco<o 


§1 




Ml to w u- 


oc 


•- 


-j-iftoiosrsi^-^t^oocat^ 


u- 


■* -* ^ -a 


I> 


Tt 


o6o5r-:coor-irio!odT)ic;co 


c 


Oi IC O CT 


a 


IT 


i350>ooiracoo)oocr>o>cnoo> 




_0 


J 






~ 




•«*^ 
















3 


> 




!>■ 




c 


Y- 




« 






> 








a 

a 

1 

a 

"o 


5 

c 

e! 

6. 

c 


■1^ 

3 
o 

o 

tc i 

©^ 

I"* 


si 

- ^ p 
^ * 


> 


u 
s 
> 

> 


3 m S~ 




> 

a - 


- a ' 

-2 S >. 

d & - 




a 
a 

o 
a 
o 


« 
^ 


"2 'o'S'S 
- -&& = 




■ 1 


§2Sfa-g3g'§3|3 








01 -^— ' « 


c3 3; 


A" 


'ce ^ o o ©©©"©0)® 




c 


g o D c 


a ci 


.35 


el aaflo©"oopaaar; 


a 




O w*^ c 


'•P> '^ 


;3 OOO-g-iJCOOPOPj^ 
2 m «* a S « m m'=^ mk" 

5 aaa-s-fasaaaa 








2S 

a o 


3 


j 


|Til 

.Soo.3 


O -J 

5.= 




H 


kJ 





P 


^ 


ij 


Q 


kjj 


hJ 


p 


■^ 


^ 


H 


J 


t-1 


^J 


l-I 




1 



506 



REPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 









CI 

ii 












"c 


.1 




© 
'i 


© 
© 

s 








ta 5 


- x 

o 




p. o 1 






o f: 


^ 




a 

c 

w 


!» 


^ 




12 1 


.2 


CO 


"S 


■a 

c 

•a 






tap, 


© 


fl . 

^ ft. 


c 

< 


i 6fe^ 6 6 o 6 d o f?!2-rS 


3^ la 




^ ;z 


C 


C 




e 


-^ 1 


































— •^ o 


I 






























p-a ft 
































— rt p< 
P c 
0. o 






























« 






















g 




in 


S 


CO 






























O 






















e 




C 


c5 


1-1 
































o- 


1 f- 


■-I1-I U» ^ U» CO -4 

c« lo in 05 -* CO tc 


IM 




C] 


00 


O 


IT 


<= 






IT 


o> 


IT 


" 


« CJ r-; r-i W CO 0- 


•■ 




■<» 


•«<i 


M 




.lg_ 












^ 


oc 


Iccoc 


M (M CO lO (N CO tC 


o- 




•* 


iH 




V 




(N OS CO mS -* l> 


oc 




ir 


O 


-4^ 


c 


IM 


rt rt CO CJ rH -di 0) 


■* 




m 


■« 


<s 




J 














e^ 


■ (T 


ooinioto ©t- 












txi=s 






CT 


OmiM(MO o(N 


p 










as 










c 












oc 


•*t> 


O CO 00 rH CO CJ C 


cc 




cc 


W 


a 


■<» 


OJC- 


05 <M C^ in 05 CO ci- 


cr 




oc 


o 


■>* 


irf-<» 


cdc4 tH ^ in *c^ 


c 




<M 


^ 


3 
















. * • 




















cc 






CI 


03 


ca 02 4) 

" be® 


























l^ 


o 




















c 






o 


o 




IT 


OC 


1 C-1 oq OS tr- 00 c 


■<* 




^ 


88 






o«: 


I OOOrlCOtOCO 


c 




a 


d © 




«■■* 


CO CO CO Tj< (N C< 






IT 


o 


p-d 
















M'M 
















H W 
















O 






^ 
















-s^ 






























t- 


CO!C 


Sggggs? 


IT 




CJ 


t~ 


d 


<= 


OOO' 


t- 




•<» 


I*! 


d 


ir 


00 5C 


c<i w cj oj >-; t- 


■« 




t- 


^ 


1 














































^ 


















t- 


mc<i 


CO .H CO fJ to (N oc 


OC 




Ci- 


IM 




COi-H 


i-l 00 Tj< 1^ CO rH CQ 


t> 




cc 


a 


a 


M 


ojin 


■^ 1-5 -^ '(r c<i 00 o 






CI- 


irf 


l> 


CD CO 


CO t~ t- t- CO t- CO 


t^ 




cc 


t- 












a 














fl 

© 






iii 


. I. 


§ 




















I'C 
















© 






■ p 


« is D 












tc 






; c 




n 














:c 


la 




JZ 


CO 


!2 


- 




f. 


§1^ 




i 


C 




9 


1 


© 

'3 




C3 c8 m 

c3 « a! 


la 


6 




« 

i 


cc 


e 


S 


Si 


<s o o 


© 


|5 

c 


b 




^ 


' 




P 


fl"c 


'3 '3 '3 


■g 


p: 




^ 


> 


; b 




i 


o a 


^ ca ca 


c3 




c 


F. 


C>i 






tri s- 


h t-. b 


M 


« 




D 


p> 


^ to 




C 


a b 


C MhCtI 


M 




£ 


cy 


^ 




c 
< 




© ® © 

a n ^ 
© © ©^ 


© 




2 




c 




"i. 


i iE 


p a fl O -r- 
C (, t, fc< ->: 


E 




1 


« e 




\. 


fr! c 


o o o o .? 


s 




c 


d-^ 




e 


J e 


P: 


tr 


tr 


fr 




n 




fC 


tc 




o 


f a 


i- 1 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



507 







<« . 










<» 


«-( . 




o p, 


p. 


o ^ ft 




^^ lo 


- 




■^Sa--' 




cat- 










am 


o 






3 r 


> 






cs" 


1-3 S5B ffl 




CO 


o 


r^ n 


o 


£"3 


a 




■< 


s> 


%-4 


1^5 = 




<s«v 


O 






-s-i-i ^.= 




III 


^00 

D i-l 






« 




n p^' 


a B 


M O 








o in 


O m 


to <o 








CO Oi 


3 3 
















O f-( 








d i-i 


'S-TS 














tacc 














M Cj 














■ O . 


■^ 












Ift 


o'C-a 
















J 0-3 


^ 












o 


^-a^ 


















o a 


c 


-t 


in in 1^ >n 






c- 


0- 


coo ^ t- 


o c- 


-* 


(X 


a> ci oj o5 


2 


*"* 






*"* 


^ 


05 I> 


■«:* 


c- 


c^i oj CO in 


■2 

o 


CO oc 


C^ 




C~) i-H O OJ 


d = 


c 


c 


d d ^' d 












'^ «c 


«: 


I-- 


(OOO o o> 


c5 

O 


■-H ir 


<= 


tc 


O 0> CO 00 


ci p) 


c- 


,_ 


-H M ff-i r-! 


75 












^ oc 


CO 


_ 


c) in in 00 


M.5 


CO r- 




oc 


r-t c-i in 00 




t^ to 


c- 


'^ 


co' d 0* t-i 


■* 










o.^ 












5 5 


i> C3 t» 














T3 cS 2 


d ^ 










d d 


•sag 














O w 














ei 


o -* 


CO 


a 


•r o> 






00 






*^ 


■* -s 


CO 


CO 


CO '^ 


c 




IM 






rt 




















< 








into 


1 


p 










o 


lo 


2 


00 o> 






^^.°' d 


o 


P 


u 








' 00 lO 




"" 


s 








Ttl CO 


^ 


o 


p^ 




- .'^ 


•<*« 




2 




d 


o> in 
in <» 


t- 


a 


§ 


00 


'h 




CO ^ 






^ 




o 










f-t 




Pm 








J 




? 


s s 


CO 


_, 


CO<M CO O) 


■^ 


in 


00 CO •-< t- 


'^ 


tH C" 


o 


0( 


inod CO d 


t» 


in in 


■ra 




CO-*** in in 




d 








>-, • 






V 














> 








C3 I 






1 ^ 






a 












.as ■ 


a 


4J 








.2 . !^ « 


1 




i 




"3 ® •" '" 


S 







6-^2 = 




<D P «' 


©' 


d 


c o .,- 1 




'5 B w 


2 


2 t- C « ': 






5 5 


c« 


c! 

6 


^ 




(5 



508 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



o 


0*H 


CO 


t>5 


b 


°s 


% 




.W 


^1 


oM 








^d 


o a 




P^Eh 


O?^ 



•1 

'3'Sd 



3<Mt>- aJ o 









t^ ja d u =aa 


odd 


d 


d 


Do. 
Professo 
T. M. C 
vey, I> 
Professo 
Do. 
W. Wall 
J.;R. Ch 


PPR 


Q 


O 









t-HC<l ^~^ 



tHtH CO 



■^j* t^ U5 O^tO OS CO 
00 i-H .-I CO ?D O iM O 

OOO OOO O rA 



3f— \ .-I ® (M 



> O t^ N CO 






00 r-tH 



O O OOO O O r 



N O O O O rH O 



ow lo-'j"© J— jin.rico oi-HTJCo '<#>r:>c> 

Odd <ti o 



_I,J^ 



S 2-^ 



rHCT »H O tow 

coi* T)i en iftOi 



0(N 



cm oc 






th* coom 



COi-t c^ CO r-l r-t 00 



22 o> 



Cv| OJ lO t* »o < 



t^ lO CO 00 -^ 



.* t^ C<l OS t' .t- 06 

OiiCt - — — ^ ■ 

toco 



2^ 



oDcno cooot 



lO OQ O O t> OCOfi'(M 

'A o3 T*i ^ f-i cooioc4 
00 ^-^aoi t^oscjoo 




oja 
.50 

33 ci o © 

C« g^ O 






K^ a !-. 

-3.2 3 = 



O O -7-' Q .— ■ o O O 



t» t/2 c^cOtzj s-ojcnx 



BUILDING AND OKNAMEMAL STONES. 



5oy 









3 
5 






k> 


5^ 




^ 




"1 


'S'p c 


c 




£td « 


^ 




o ~ 


o X 


J 


3 
< 




-a 




^1 t^ 


"3 pW 




. S 


-Sm 




l-s^ P 


« MO 




^ 








. 1 


•apiqd 


o 

o 












-fasiq UOJ.I 


o 














wc 




^ 




CO 


■i<HTi^ 




t- 


c 









MC 


cr 


•4 




•* 




■* 












t~ 










•noqi^Q 


Ol 




f 




05 




'"' 




^ 




e 




o 












■*a 










•qe«;od; 






c 




cc 




CO ?- 




c 




CO 




§c 




<= 








upos 




4 s 


c 
















aic 


•4 


QC 


<o 


•'Bl89aSBJ\[ 


■» Cv 




C^ 


C) 




i-JcJ 




CC 


00 C4 




lO 








U3iM 




<s 


T* 


•limyi 






X 


CQ 




Or- 




«^ 


^S^ 




O 












•apixo 


o 

s 












SUO JJBqOQ 


s 














to 












'9pixo 


§ 




? 








Bnou'BStrej^ 


o 














■* 








1 


iO 


^ 






•apTxo oiaaaj 


ooo 


ooc 


io5!i 


-1 CJ 


poB Bnoiia J 


05 1^ 


zt 


n r-i 


-;-«od 




o> 


o 








■* o 


o 


00 


00 


•'Bniniaiv 


00 t~ 


c^ 




00 




rH OS 


s 


a 


so to 




C-JiH 








IM 












•pioB 


o 












ounqdjiis 


o 














t- 




z 








•ptoBOiaB^^iX 


e» 




e 












c 








ooo 


1£ 


ir 


(3J 


•pioB oioiiIS 


00 u- 




■* 


10 




inc 




<s 


00 C4 




IT' C 




«o 


•*<o 




: 


K 












o 


« 










03 


p> 


■5 










IS 


>^ 


^ 












a 

s 


t 










^* 


o 


c 










^ 


o 


!z 










o 


^ 
b 


b 


) ^ 












c 






1 


1 


"3 


p 


rj .2 

1 


tM 




Q 




i^ 


»M 




Si 


I 


fl 


C (O" 








*^ +3 




^^ 




1 


d 01 












«fia 


5 


7 


V 


« 


1 



n 5 
•9S 



Appendix B. 

prices and cost of cutting. 

The prices of stone and the cost of cutting vary with the price of 
labor and the conditions of the market, hence exact figures can not be 
given. Those given below are quoted from reliable sources, and will 
doubtless be found as near correct as possible in a work of this kind. 
The prices are for the rough stone and at the quarry, ordinary size. 





Price per cu- 
bic foot. 


Cost of dressing per square foot. 




Kiuds. 


Sawn. 


Rub- 
bed 


Pointed. 


Ax- li am - 
mered. 


Busb-ham- 

mered or 

chiseled. 


Remarks. 


Granites: 


$0.35 to $0.75 
.75 to 1.50 

7. 00 to 9.00 

1. 50 to 2. .50 

2. 00 to 4.00 
4. 00 to 5.00 

.75 to 3.00 

1.00 to 2.00 

1.00 
. 03 to . 10 

. 10 to .20 

.60 

.50to .75 

. 20 to . 40 

2.00to 3.50 






$0.25 to $0.40 
.25 to .40 

.25 
.25 
.25 
.25 
.25 

. 10 to . 15 


$0.25 to $0.50 
.25 to .50 

.50 
.50 
.50 
.50 
.50 

.30 


$0.40 to $0.75 
. 40 to . 75 

.75 

.75 
.75 
.75 
.75 












Marbles : 

Statuary 

Common 

Decorative 

Monumental .. 

Tennessee 

Sandstones -. 


$9.40 
.40 
.40 
.40 
.40 


$0.90 
.90 
.90 
.90 
.90 


Extra prices 
for blocks 
above 25 cu 
bic feet. 


Berea 








N. Y. blaestone 






.15 




.25 


Per square 


Do 








footand2t<>'.i 
inches thick; 
flagginji. 
Per square 
footan(14to8 
inches thick J 
platform s, 
etc. 

Building 
stone. 


Medina 












Limestones 












Serpentine, Penn- 
sylvania. 
Slates 






.10 


.15 


.15 








Per square = 
100 square 
feet. 















510 



BUILDING AND UliNAMENTAL STONES. 
Price-list of Italian marbles. 



.J 11 



Quality. 



First . . 
Second . 
Pirst... 
Second . 
First... 

Do... 
Second. 
Third . . 
First . 
Second. 
First- . . 
Second . 
First... 
Second . 
First... 

Do... 

Do... 



£ind of stone. 



Statuary 

do 

do 

do 

White or black marble. 

do 

do 

do 

White veined 

do 

Bardiglio 

do 

Bardiglio, veined 

clo 

Portor, black and gold. 

Red mixed 

Parmazo 

do 

do 

Yellow 

Portor 

Black 

Breccia 

Yellow 

Green (serpentine) 

do 

Breccia 

YeDow 

Eed 



Quarry. 



1« 



6t( 



Poggio Silvestro. 

— do 

Bettogli 

do 

Canal Bianco 

Gioja 

Eavaccione 

Tanti Scritti 

Vara 

Gioja 

Para 

Gioja 

Serravezza 

...do 

Spezia 

Levanto 

Miseglia 

Pesciiia 

BoccadelFrobbi. 

Sienna 

Monte d'Arma... 

Colonnata 

Gragnana j Exceptional. 

do do 

Garfagnana do 

Genoa do 

Serravezza do 

Verona do 

Castel Poggio.. 



Price per cu- 
bic foot. 



Lira. ' 
35to4U 
15 t 
30 t 
12 t 



15 

10 

9.50 
G.50 
4 to 4. 25 

l(t. 50 
7 

8.50 
6.50 
8.75 
7.25 

10.50 

10.50 

12 

12 

12 
18 to 20 

11 

10.50 



Reaarks. 



1 Prices reckoned on blocks 
[ of sufficient size for an 
I ordinary .-statue 5 feet in 
J height. 

1 Prices reckoned on blocks 
containing not less than 
20 cubic feet. 



Prices of all of these de- 
. pend upon the sizes of 
the pieces and the 
beauty of the veining. 



*A lira equals 19.3 cents American money. 

Note. — For this list of quarries and prices we are indebted to Hon. WUliam P. Rice, United State 
consul at Leghorn, Italy. 



Appendix C. 

imports and exports of stone* 

Marbles imported and entered for consumjMon in the United States for the years 1867 to 

1883, inclusive. 



Fiscal years end- 
ing June 30— 


goo 


Sawed, dressed, 
etc., over 2 
aud not over 3 
inches thick. 


Sawed, dressed, 
etc., over 3 
aud not over 4 
inches thick. 


Si wed, dressed, 
ttc, over 4 
and not over 5 
inches thick. 


Sawed, dressed, 
etc., over 5 
and not over 6 
inches thick. 


Veined, aud all 
other in blovk, 
etc. 


&2 
caJ 
-S'l 


.s 

5 (o 

oo 
o 
P- 

*- to 

o 

!2i 


Total. 


1867 












$192, 514 
309, 750 
359, 881 
332, 839 
400, 158 
475, 718 
396, 671 
474, 680 
527, 628 
529, 126 
349, 590 
376, 936 
329, 155 
531,908 
470, 047 
486, 331 
533, 096 


$2, 540 
4,403 
3, 898 
3.713 
1, 134 
4,017 
4, 148 
2, 8G3 
1, 623 
1,151 
1,404 
592 
427 
7,239 
1,468 
3,582 
2,011 


$51, 978 

85, 783 
101, 309 
142, 785 
118,016 
.54, 539 
69, 991 
51, 699 
72, 389 
60, 596 
77, 293 
43,915 
54, 857 
62,715 
82, 046 
84, 577 
71, 905 


$247, 032 
399, 936 


1868 












1869 












465, 088 


1870 













479, 337 
525, 598 


1871 


$5, 973 

3, 499 

3,124 

1,837 

1,456 

595 

2,124 

198 

184 


$168 

1,081 

21 


$77 
45J 


$44 


$28 
318 


1872 


539, 624 
473, 955 


1873 




1874 








531, 079 


1875 


427 
126 


96 
204 






603 619 


1876 


87 




591 885 


1877 




430,411 
421, 600 


1878 


11 


8 






1879 






384, 623 
601,862 


1880 










1881 


339 
655 
619 










553 900 


1882 










57."), 145 


1883 










607, 631 













111 1884 the classification was as follows : 

Value. 

Marble, iu block, rough or squared, of all kinds $511,287 

Veined marble, sawed, dressed, or otherwise, including marble slabs and 

marble paving tiles 12, 941 

All manufactures of, not specially enumerated G7, 829 

Total 592,057 

* The tables here given relative to the imports and exports of various kinds of stone 
are taken bodilj^ from Williams's Mineral Resources of the United States, 1883-'84. 
512 



lUJILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



513 



Ihiihl'uxj atone (cxchtsirc of morhlc), porhuj sloiiv, txiid alone haUast inqwrlcd and entered 
for eonsnnij)ii<)n in the I'nited Slater, X^K'u to IK-'l, inclusive. 



Fiscal 

years 


lUiiltliiig 

stoue, 
diesseil. 


Buildiii.!; .stone, 
rough. 


Sand- 

Sti;uo. 


Slate, 
chiuiney 

jiit'ccs, 

mantels, 

etc. 


Roofiug 
.slate. 


Lime- 
stone. 


Paving 
stones. 


Ballast. 


Total 
value. 


June 30— 


Quantity. 


Value. 


m67 




Lonrj t'ns. 






$37,510 
16,015 
19,602 
19, 879 
21, 381 

25, 925 

26, 643 

27, 519 
42, 022 

44, 266 
34, 479 
39, 935 
46, 260 
51,105 
46, 862 

45. 774 
44, 375 
31, 040 


.$85, 204 

118,776 

85, 304 

107, 521 

117,484 

107, 192 

91, .503 

80, ^19 

16,342 

2,051 

4 

275 

620 

72 

I5I 
''813 








(?) 
<') 


1868 


$59,081 
61,408 
l.'.O, 619 
145,759 
162,614 
218, SM 
2;{8, 6h0 
275, 633 
316,404 
201,034 
],-.3, 693 
125, 493 
75, .501 
76,741 
1 04, 296 
127,476 
122,463 










— 

'$2,'459 
1,486 
1,639 
2, 023 

1, 938 
1,705 
2,614 
1,456 

2, 560 
1,990 
2, 710 
1 841 


$5,718 

467 

2,034 

0, .529 

3,788 
7, 246 
2,017 

1, 005 
485 

1, 9.5C 

2, 943 

2, 383 

3. 799 
16, .599 

2, 629 
2, 576 


.$3, -987 
10,518 
34, 703 
11,303 
17, 143 
21, .882 
9, 025 
9, 350 
0,272 
6, 989 
2, 305 
7,572 
5,401 
8,792 
5, 745 
2, 551 


ISfiO 

1870 




$8, 237 


$1,171 
3,201 
3, 660 

7, 080 

6. 160 

8, 534 
10,986 

7,174 
5, 492 

7, 1.36 
13, 950 
1 0, 220 
15,115 


(') 


1871 

1872 

1873 

1874 

1875 

1876 - 

1877 

1878 

1 879 

1880 

1H81 

1SS2 

1 883 


1, 455 
10.723 
20, 226 
19,6,58 
1.5,748 

8, 199 

7, .5,S4 
10, 197 

6, 845 
11,035 
) 5, 867 
16,778 
14, 324 
12, 198 


10,982 
39, 515 
73, 889 
81, 045 
67, 357 
34, 124 
25, 571 
37, 878 
24, 53 1 
43. 9!)7 
6.5. 950 
75, 309 
04, 767 
50, 860 


(?) 
$302, 217 
438, 848 
467, 664 
425, 405 
410,312 
275, 042 
250, 470 
217,624 
193. 470 
21.5.860 
253, 694 
249 646 


1884 


16, 099 


143 


229, 332 



Marble and btone. of domestic production exported front the United States. 



Fiscal year ending 

Seiit'eniluT 30 

until 18t2 and June 

30 since. 



1826. 
1827. 
1828. 
1829. 
\x:m. 

1831, 
]8:!2. 
1833. 
1834. 
18:i5. 



1S37. 
1838. 



1839. 



1840 

1S4I 

1842 

1843 (nine niontlis) 

1814. 

1815 

is4'i 

1847 

l.'<48 

1849 

1K50 

1851 



18.52. 

18.53. 
1^5(. 
1 8.55 . 



Itougb. 



I^Ianu- 
factured. 



$13, 
3, 
3, 



1«, 
8, 
19, 
17, 
14, 
11, 

20! 
34, 
41, 

.57, 
47, 
88, 
1C8, 



Total. 



$13, 
3, 
3, 

4; 
3, 
3, 



18, 
8, 
19, 
17, 
14, 
11, 

2oi 
34, 
41, 
57, 

47, 
88, 
168, 



303 
505 
122 
647 
655 
588 
455 
087 
3.59 
687 
414 
374 
199 
001 
794 
.540 
921 
.545 
135 
626 
234 
220 
460 
282 
510 
449 
240 
628 
327 
546 



Fiscal year endinr 
June 30 — 



18.56. 
1857 . 

18.58. 
1.^.59. 
1 800 . 
1861. 
1862. 
1803. 
1804. 
1865. 
1806. 
1867. 
1S08. 
1809. 
187(1. 
1S71. 
1872. 
1873. 
1874 
1875. 
1876. 
1877. 
1878. 
1879. 
1880. 
1881. 
1882. 
1883. 
1884. 



llougb. 



.$57, 715 
74, 261 
89, 703 
53, 983 
60, 399 
02, 266 
42, 227 
135,672 
1.56.976 
96, 735 
126,609 
125, 908 
95, 480 
131,716 
142,661 
143,4.57 
199,051 
220, 362 
180, 774 
1.52, 182 
188, 245 



Manu- 
factured. 



$162, 37C 
111,403 
138, 590 
112,214 
170,239 
185, 267 
195, 442 
1.S8, 428 
144, 647 
183, 782 
112, 830 
13,S, 558 
105,046 
87, 13.^ 
138,040 
137,613 
16.5,311 
189,795 
108,977 
254, 350 
236, 255 
917,937 
597, 356 
430, 848 
453,912 
409, 433 
433, 056 
389, 371 
41.5, 015 



Total. 



$102,376 
111,403 
138, 590 
112,214 
176, 239 
185, 267 
19.5,442 
138, 428 
202, 302 
258, 043 
202, 533 
192, 541 
165, 445 
149, 401 
180, 273 
273, 285 
322, 287 
286, .530 
295, 646 
380, 324 
331,7.35 
1,049," 6.53 
740,017 
.574, 305 
652, 963 
629, 795 
614,430 
.541,5.53 
603, 200 



U. Mis. 170, pt. 2 33 



514 



EEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



MarMe and stone, and manufacinrcs of marble and stone, of forchjn production exported 
from the United States, 1872 to 1884, inclusive. 



Fiscal yeai ending June 
30- 


Value. 


fiscal vcar ending June 
30- 


Value. 


Fiscal year ending June 
30- 


Value. 


1872 


$1, 929 
4,571 
1,928 
3, 4'J8 

13, 371 


1877 

1878 

1879 


$8, 475 
3,448 
6, 304 
6,816 


1881 


$709 
4,848 


aS73 


1882 


1874 


18S3 


490 


1875 


1880 


1884 


8, 420 


1876 











Summarizing- the foregoiug statistics the movemeut during tlie fiscal 
years 1882, 1883, and 1884 may be stated tlius : 

Balance of trade in marble and stone. 



Fiscal year ending June 30— 



1882 . 
1883. 
1884. 



Imports. 



$828, 839 

1,475,658 

821, 389 



E. sports. 



Of domestic 
produc- 
tions. 



$614, 430 
541,553 
603, 260 



Re-exports 
of foreign 
produc- 
tions. 



,844 
490 
,420 



Total 
exports. 



$619, 278 
542, 043 
611, 680 



Excess of 
imports 
over ex- 
ports. 



$209. 561 
933, 615 
209, 709 



In addition to tlie domestic exports tabulated there are occasional 
insignificant exports of roofing slate, amounting in 1871 to $1,256, and 
in 1881 to $1,018. 



Appendix D. 

list of some of thf more impoirtajs'l' stoxe structures of the 

VNlTEn STATES. 



Locality. 



Akron, Ohio ... 
Alljiuiy.N. Y.. 



Augusta, Mo .. 

Atlauta, Gil ... 
Baltimore, Md . 



Bangor, Me . . 
Boston, Mats 



Structure. 



Material. 



Date of 
erec- 
tion. 



Memorial Cliaiiel Sandstone, Marietta, Oliio 

State Capitol i Granite, llallowell, Me. (in great 

! vart). 

City ITall Granite, ]Milllord, Mass 

United States eoiirl and ixist-of- ' Granite, Maine 

(ice buildiiii;. 

State (Capitol j Giauite, Uallowell, i\Ie 

Asvhmi lor the lusaini do 

United States Arsenal 1 do 

Unitect States jKist-ofhco and , Granite, Vt 

eourt-lioiise. ' 

Entaw IMace Baptist Chnrdi ' Wliite iiiarlde (dol.niiite), Texas 

and Coekeysville, Md. 
Blown Memorial Presliytoriau ' do 

Cliuieli. 
Franklin Street I'resbyteiian do 

Chnreh. ! 

City Hall | do 

Peabody Institute 1 .. do 

First Presl)Vterian Chureli ' Sandstor'e, New Brun.swiek, N. J. 

City Pri.«on Gneiss, Jones's Falls, Md 

Catholic Cathedi al t Gneiss, Ellici.l t City, Md 

Post-otiice anil cusloiiidumse Gi'anitc, Frank fort, Mi' 

King's Gliai)el ; Granite (bowlders) 

Uniteil States custom house I Granite, Quincy, Mass 

United States lourt- house do 

Masonic Temple <lo 

St. Paul's Cliureli do 

Meriilianis 'Pjxcliaiige ' do 

Mount Vernon Church do 

Unitarian (Jhurch, -Taniaica T'lains do 

Bowiloiii Square! I!a])tist Cliurch..! do 

Bunker Hill ilonunient do 

United States post-otiice i Granite, Cai)e Ann, Mass 

I'.oston Wat<r\\^>iks ' do 

St. Vincent de Paul Church do 

Herald nuilding Granite, Ciuicord, N. II - . 

Transcript Buiiiling do 

Advertiser Building do 

Massachusetts Geneial Hospital.. Granite, WestfonI, Mass 

Massacliiisi'ttH (ieneral Hospital ' do 

(a<Idiriou). 
K(iuilabh' Insnr.uice Company's Granite, llallowell, Me 

building. i 
Odd Fellows' Memorial Hall (in ' do 

part). 

Parker House, on S( hool street \ Jklarble, Hut land, Vt 

St. Cloiul Hotel I do 

Hotel Dartniontli [ do , 

Hotel Vendonie (old ])art) Marble, Italy 

New York Mutual Lite Insurance Marble (dolomite), Tuckalioe, N. Y 

Company's building. 

Hotel Vetnloine (new part) | do 

Hotel Pelliam i Ited sandstone, I'ortland, Conn., 

j ami New Jer.sey. 

Second Unitarian (Jhurcli | Bed sandstone, Newark, N.J..... 

Arlington Street Church j Bed sandstone, Belleville and Bit- 

! tie Falls, N.. I 
Youn^ Men's ('hristian Un'on, i Bed sandstone. Bay View, New 

BoyTston street. | Brunswick. 

Youiig Men's Christian Union | Saudatoue, AmUoi-st, Ohio 

515 



18C3-'82 

1!S84 

182!)';« 

18;57'40 

]8L'8 

18,^0 



18116 

1855 

174U-'54 

1837.'48 

18;i0.';!l 

18-J8-'L'U 

18'J0 

1842 



1825-'42 
l8Gy.'b2 



1818-'2l 
18tG 



516 



EEPOBT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



LIST OF SOME OF TUB MORE IMPORTANT STONE STRUCTURES OF THE 
UNITED STATES— Contiuned. 



Locality. 



Boston, Mass . 



Brootlyn, N. T .., 

Cambridfre, Mass 
Chicago, 111 



Coliiiubja, S. C 

Denv(;r, Colo 



Hoboken, N. .T... 
Jersey City, N. J. 

Maiden, Mass 



^liddk'tnwii. Conn . 
Miuueapolis, Minn 



Mobilo, Ala , 

Naslivillo, Tcun 



Newark, N. J 

New OileaHs, La . 
Now York City... 



Structure. 



Harvard College Building, Arch 

street. 
First Church, Marlborough aud 

Berkeley streets. 

Brattle Square Church 

Central Congregational Church.. 
Kmauuel Cliuich, Newbury street. 

New Old South Church 

Second Univer.salist Church 

Trenioiit Street Methodist Kjiis- 

copal Church. 

Cathedral of the Holy Cross 

St. James (Episcopiil) Cluirch 

St. Peter's Church (Dorchester).. 

Tiinity Chureh 

Academy of Design, Montague 

street. 

Soldiers' Montuueut . . - 

Court-house 



.do 



Customhouse and pcstollice 

building. 
Chamber of Commerce 



Palmer House 

Craud Pacific Hotel 

>St. Paul Universalist Church. 
Union- League Club house 



Central ^Music Hall 

State H ouse 

Post-office aud court-house ... 

Windsor Hotel 

Union Depot 

Ihiion Pacific Freight Depot.. 

i;io Grande Depot 

Stevens's Institute 

Court-house 

St. Patrick's Cathedral 

Converse Memorial Library .. 



Wesleyan University Ituildings. 
Washburne FlouringMills 



University of Minnesota 

Universalist Church 

City hall 

Westminister Presbyterian 
Church. 

Custom-House 

do 



State capitol 

Custom - house aud i)ost -office 

building. 

County court-houae 

Custom-house 

Monument to General llobert E. ^ 

Lee. i 

(Columbia College 

Trinity Church, Broadway aud 

Wall street. 
Lenox Library, Fifth avouue and 

Seventieth street. 
Hospital, Sailors' Snug Harbor, 

Stateu Island. 

Ludlow street jail 

Halls of justice or " Tombs " 

Seventh Kegiment armory 

Metropolitan Museum of Art 

New York post-office 

Court-house in City Hall Park 

Astor House 

Reformed Church, La Fayette 

Place. 
Egyptian ohelisk in Central Park . 



Material. 



Sandstone, Amherst, Ohio 

Conglomerate, Roxbury, Mass. 
do 



.do. 
.do. 
-do. 
.do. 
-do. 

.do. 
.do. 
do. 



G ranite, Dedham, Mass 

Brown sandstone, Portland, Conn. 



Granite, Mason, N. H 

Dolomite, Leniout, HI 

^Granite, Fo.\ Island, Me 

^Oolitic limestoue, Bedford, lud . 

Sandstone, Freestone, Ohio 



Granite, Fo.^ Island and Hallo- 
well, Me. 

Sandstone, Amherst, Ohio 

do 

Dolomite, Lemont, 111 

Brown sandstone, Springfield, 
M ass. 

Dolomite, Lemont, III 

Grauite, near Columbia, S. C 

Granite, Wiuusborough, S. C 

Khyolite-tufl" Douglas Uounty.Colo 

...."..do 

do 

do 

Diabase, Jersey City, N. J 

do : 

do 

Sand.stone, East Long Meadow, 

Mass. 
Brown sand.stone, Portland, Conn 
Magnesian limestone, Minneapo- 
lis, Minn. 

do 

do 

do 

Brown sandstone. Fond du Lac, 
Minn. 

Grauite, Quincy, Mass 

Oolitic limestone. Bowling Green, 

Limestone near Nashville, Tenn. . 
Sandstoue, Little Falls, N.J 



-do. 



Granite, Quincy, Mass 

Granite, Cieorgia 

Gray marble, Knoxville, Tenn 

Red saiulstone, Potsdam, N. Y 

Brown sandstone, LittleFalls, N.J. 



Limestone, Lockport, N. Y. 
Granite, Spruce Head, Me.. 



Granite, Hallo well. Me 

do 

Granite, Round Pond, Me. 
Granite, Mt. Deseit, Me.. 
Granite, Dix Island, Me .. 

do 

Granite, Quincy, Mass 

do 



Uornbjende grauite, Egypt 



Date of 
erec- 
tion. 



lS81-'83 



1858 
1882 



187^ 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



51' 



LIST OF SOME OF THE MORE IMPORTANT STOXE STRUCTURES OF THE 
UNITED STATES— Continued. 



Locality. 



New Yovlv City 



New York City ami 
I'lidoklvii. 



I'hilad.lpliia. Ta, 



Portland, Mo . 



Providoiico, R. I. 



Struct inc. 



St. Patrick's Catlicdral (in iiart). 
Old city liali, ca^t, smuli, .■iiid 

west, i routs. 
Treasury l)iiildiii<r, Wall slrin-t . 
St. l'atrick'.s Catlicdral (in pail). 

Stock Excliaiiiro 

St. Patrick's Catliodriil (in jiart). 

Union Dime Sayiiif;a Bank 

Fortifications, Fort llichnioiid. . . 

Fortiticatious, Fort Lafayetto 

^^1rtilications at Willcts Point .. 
Fortilicatioiis at ( iovcimir's Isl- 
and. 
Fortifications at I'.i'dloi^'s Island. 

Fortiticatious at. KUis Island 

Fortilicaliotis, h'ort S c li ii y Ic r, 

Tliroc.r}r's Neck. 

Fortiticatious, Fort Wadsworlli, 

Stat(Mi Island. 
Fortilicatious, Fort IlaniiUoii. .. 
Fortiticatious, Fort Diamond ... 



Xew York and P.rooklvn Ijrid^o. 



Giraid Bank. 



United States cnstdiulioiiso . 

United States mint 

United States Naval As^lnm 

Merchants' Esclianiie 

(liiard (College 

PhiladelpViaXational Bank . 

First N.-itioDitl lianlc 

New Masonic Tcniplo 



N( w Post Oiru 



St. Mark's Proteslant Eiiiscniial 
Cliiircli. 

Bank ol" (Joninicrco 

Bank of Norrli America 

llolv 1'rinil V Ei)iscoi)aI Chiircli . 

Fiftii Baptist Church 

Ni'W city Imildings 

University of Pennsylvania 

Memoi'ial Baptist Clin I'ch 

Holy CeiiiiMunion ('hnich 

AcadiMiiy of N'atoi-.iI Sciences .... 

Yoiitif; Men's (Jhiistian Associa- 
tion. 

Forts Pnddc. Scammol, and Gorsros 



PosI -011100 

Cnstom-Iion.so. 
City hall 



Material, 



D(doniite (marhlc). Lee, Mass 

Iiohmiile (niarhh^), West Stock- 

brid-;e, Mass. 

do 

Dolomite (niarhh'), 'I'nckahoc, NT. Y. 

do 

".Snowllake" marble (dolomite), 

I'leasantville, N. Y. 
Marl.le (d(doniite), I'leasantville, 

N. Y. 

Ciianite, Dix Island, Me 

Brown sandstone. New Jersey... 

Granile, S])nice Head, Me 

.. . do 



Granite, Maine. 
do 



Granite, I''rankfiirt, Me.; Concord, 
N. H ; Spruce Head, Me.; (^ape 
.Villi, Mass.; Ilnrri<ane Island, 
Me.; Westerly, 11. I.; East Blue- 
hill, Me.; Stony Cn^ek, Conn.; 
Mt. De.sert Island, Me.; Chance- 
hiirgh, N. J. 

Liniestone, Koudont, N. Y.; Kinir- 
ston, N. Y.; Isle La Motte, 
Lalic (Jhamplaiu; WillsborouKh 
Point, Lake Cbaniplain; near 
Ciitskill, N. Y. 

Liniestcjne (marble), Montgomery 
Count V, Pa. 



tJianite, Quiiicy, Mass 

. . do ' 

Gninito, Fo.x Island, Me.; Cape 

Ann, Mass. 
Granite, Dix Ishiiid, >Ie.; lti(h- 

niond, Va. 
S;imls(one, Poilland. Conn 



..bi 



Date of 
erec- 
tion. 



Soldiers' .'iiid s;iiIoi-.i' nionnment 

Post-()tlie(^ ;uid eustnin-hou.se, 

Roy;ei- Willi;iiMs's iiioii iinient 

New Cathc.lie, (■;ithedr;il 

(irace (Jlmrcli 

First Congregational ('Imndi . . . 



Dolomite (marble), Leo Mass 

Serpentine, Chester County, I'ii. 



do 

do 

Sandstone, Ohio 



Granite. Mount Waldo, P.iildeford, 

and Spniei' Head, Me. 
(,'rvstallinc^ limesloiie (marble), 

Venjiont. 
Granite, Hallowill, Me., Concord, 

N. II. 
Granite, TlniT'cane Island, Me.; 

Westerly, K. I., and ('oncord, 

N. H. 

Griinile. '^Yesterly, U. T 

(iianite, Quincv. Mass 

(Jranile, "A'esti'rly, li. I 

,Sandstone, roiHand, Conn 

S;vndstone, Little Falls, N.J 

Granite. Smitlifield, li. I 



1798 

1819 
1829 
1830 
18;i2 
183;t 
1850-'tiO 
ISfi.'') 
1872 

lS8.-> 

1849 

1850 
18.50 
18.57 
18()3 



1871 
1874 
1875 
187« 

1SG8 



1872 

1872 



518 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



LIST OF SOME OF THE MORE IMPORTANT STONE STRUCTURES OF THE 
UNITED STATES— Coutinn&di. 



Locality. 



Saint Paul, Minn. 



Salt Lake City, Utah 
San Fraucisco, Cal... 

Savannah, Ga 

Trenton, N.J 

WasLington, D. C .. 



Structure. 



Catholic cathedral .. 



Unitariau church 

St. Paul's Ei)iscopal churcli . 



United States custom-house ana 
post-otHce. 

Adams school 

Franklin scliool 

County .jail 

Assembly liouso 



New Mormon Temple. 
Bank of California 



United States mint 



Presbyterian church 

Custom-house 

State capitol 

State prison 

Executive Mansion 

Treasuiy I'liildini;, old ])()rtion.. 
Tre.-isiiry lluildiiit;'. new portion.. 
Patent ( Xlicf JSuildini.', ohl jiortioir. 
Patent Office Ijuildinjr, extension 



Chapel in Oak Hill Cemetery 

Georsetowu College (new build- 
ing.) 

Cabin .folin's Bridge, jiarapets 
and coping. 

Washington Monument, exterior, 
in part. 

Washington Monument, exterior 

Washington Monument, interior. 



General PostOffico, old portion .. 

Geiicral PostOffice, extension ... 

United Stales C.ijiitiil, old portion. 
United States ( '^ipitol, extension. , 
United St;ites (_'a[iitol, extension, 
columns. 

Smithsonian Institution 

St. Dominiclc's Church 

Corcoran Art Gallery (in part) . . . 



State, War, and Navy Buildinf 
Butler house, Capitol Hill 



Material. 



Magnesian limestone. Saint Paul, 

Minn. 
, do 

Magnesian limestone, Kasota, 
Minn. 



.do. 
.do. 
.do. 



Granite, Little Cottonwood Canon, 

Utah. 
do 

Blue sandstone. Angel Island, 
San Francisco Bay. 

Sandstone, New Castle Island, 
(iulf of Creorgia, British Colum- 
bia. 

Granite, Quincy, Mass 

do ". 

Sandstone, Trenton, N. J 

do 

Sandstone, Acquia Creek 

do--- 

Granite, Dix Island, Maine 

Sandstone, Acquia Creek, Va 

Dolomite (marble), Cockeysville, 
Md. 

Micasehist, near Washington .. 
do 



Sandstone, Seneca Creek, Md ") 

I 
Dolomite (marble), Lee, Mass.. j 

Dolomite (marble), Cockeysville, 

Md. 
Mica schist, near Washington ; 

granite, Massachusetts and 

Maine. 
Dolomite (marble), West Chester, 

N.Y. 
Dolomite (marble), Cockeysville, 

Md. 

Sandstone, Acquia Creek 

Dolomite (marble), Leo, Mass .. 
Dcdomite (marble), Cockeysville, 

Md. 
Sandstone, Seneca Creek, Md ... 

Gneiss, Port De]iosir, Md 

Sandstone, Belleville, N.J 

Basement ;nid suii-basement gran- 

ite.Maini^ : su])erstructure gran- 
ite, neai' Richmond. Va. 
Granite, Cape Ann, Mass 



Date of 
erec- 
tion. 



1873-'74 
1872 



18G5 
1874 



1836 '41 

]8r>5 

1837-'42 

1849'64 



]848-'r,5 
)848-'84 



1839 
1855 



1793 
1851-'65 



1847-'5G 
'l871-'86 



Appendix E. 

BIBLIOC.UAPUY OF WOUKS OX BUlLDiyC, STOXE. 

The followin.£C list includes all the principal works on the subject of 
building stone which have come under the writer's notice. It does not 
include isolated and special i»apers which have api)eared from time to 
time in various journals and ])eriodicals, or State ,i;e()lo<;ical reports. 
Such, when containing' matter of sufhcient importance, have been men- 
tioned in the text and reference given in tlie foot-notes. The list is 
arranged alphabetically by authors. 
Blum, Dr. J. REiNnAiii). Lithurt^ik oiler Mineralien iind Felsarlen nacli iliror An- 

wciulnug in okonomischer, artistisclier uiul tecliiiiseber Ilinsicht systomatiscli 

al)<;ehaii(lelt. Stuttgart, 1840. 
]i()iiME, Dr. Die Festigkeit iler Banniaterialicn. Rcsultate ilcr Untersncliinigcn in 

dor Station znr Priifung dev Festigkeit von Baii.steiiicn an der kunigliclicn 

Geworbe-Akademie. zn l.erliu, etc. Berlin, 187(). 
BUKGOYXE, Sir .loiix. Rudimentary Treatise on the Blasting and Quarrying of 

Stone. London : J. Wesle, 1852. 
Bfi:xi[A:\i, S. ^1. History and Uses of Limestone and Marbles. Illustrated with 

colored pbites. Boston : S. E. Cassino & Co., 18,-!:!. 
CiiATKAr, Theodore. Tecbnologio du Batiment on Ktnde CompIMe dcs Materianx 

dc. tonte Es])ece enii)loy(^s dans les constrnctions, etc. 2. ^d. Paris, 18S(). 
Da VIES, D. C. Slate and Slate Quarrying. London: Crosby, Loekwood iV Co., 1S78. 
Dele.sse, a. Materianx de Construction de rExjiosilion UniverseHe de 187'). I'jiris 

Donsox, Edward. Masonry and Stone-cutting. Weale's Rudimcniary series. Lon- 
don: Crosby, Loekwood iS: Co., 187:5. 

Gerstexherok, Hkinkicii \()X. K.ateeliisnius diT Banmatcriaiknndc, etc. Berlin, 
18G8. 

GoTTGETiiEi', RuDoi.i'H. PIi5\sische> und Chemisclm Bescliarienbcit der Banmafe- 
rialien. 2 vols. I'erlin, 18S0-'81. Verlag von .Tnlins Springer. 

Grueher, Iii;KxiiAi;i>. Die 15anmateria]itMi-Lelin\ Berlin, I8(;:'>. Verlag von Ernst 
& Korn. 

Gwii/r, .JosEiMr. An Encyclopedia of Architecture. London, 1851. 

IIall, Prof. .Tames. R(>port on Building Stones. 

Hartmaxx, Dr. CaI!I,. Vollstllndiges Haudbuch der Steinarbeiten, etc. Wc imar, 
18G2. 

Hauexscuii-D, ITaxs. Katechismns der Banniaterialien. Wien : Lidimann A- \\'en(- 
zel, 1871). 

Hull, Edward. A Treatise on the r.uilding and Ornamenlal Stones of Great Bri- 
tain and FortMgn (Jonntries. London : Macminaii <V.-, Co., 1872. 

Kerstex, E. Die Banniat(Mialienkunde, etc. Leipzig (uot dated). Verla"- von 
Ednard Ilaliuel. 

• • 519 



520 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

KoLLSCn, Carl. Die Banniateiialieukuude flir ausfiihrende BautecLnikcr nud flir 

Stadirende der Bauwisscnschaft. SchwetscLlie & Sobn. BrnLn, 1861. 
Mal:6cot, Lkon. Mat6rianx de Coustruction employes en Belgique. Bruxolles & 

Li6gc, lH(i6. 
Newberry, J. S. Building and Ornamental Stones. Report of Judges, Group 1, U. 

S. Interuat. Ex., 1876, Vol. in. Washington, 1880. 
Notes on Building Construction. Partiii. Materials (South Kensington Educational 

Series). London, Oxford, and Cambridge, 1879. 
ScHLKGEL, Carl Friedricii. DieLehre a'Ou den Baumaterialien und den Arbeilen 

der Maurer. Leipzig: Verlag von Heinrich Mattbes, 1857. 
Schmidt, Otto. Die Baumaterialien. Berlin, 1881. Verlag von Tbeodor Hofuiann. 
Report on the Building Stones of the United States, and Statistics of thb Quarry 

Industry for 1880. V(d. x. Report of the Tenth Census of the United Stales. 

Washington : Government Printing Office, 1884. 
Thurston, R. H. Materials of Construction. New York : Wiley & Sons, 1885. 
Violet, Adolph. Lcs Marbrea et les Machines a travailler le marbre. (Ra,ppori8 

sur I'Exposition de 1878, xxviii.) Paris, 1879. 
VissER, J. E. Die Baumaterialien. Handbuch fiir Architecten, etc. Emden, 1861. 
Webber, Martin. Das Schleifen, Poliren, Fiirben nud kiinstlerische Verzieren des 

Marmors. Weimar, 1878. Bernhard Friedrich Voigt. 
Wenck, Dr. Julius. Die Lehre von den Baumaterialien, etc. Berlin, 1863. 



Appendix F. 

glossary of tekms. 

JBolian rocks. Fragrnental rocks composed of wind-drifted materials. The "drifb 
sand rock," the common bnilding stone of Berninda, is a good example. 

Argillaceous. Containing claj-ey matter. 

Ashlar masonry. Cut stone laid in continuous conrses. 

Bardlglio. This is a favorite Italian marble ol)taine(l on Montalto, on the southern 
borders of Tuscany. It is a gray or bluish ctdor, traversed by dark veins. 
In some specimens the veining assumes tlic ai)pearanee <jf llowc^rs, when it is 
known as Bardiglio fiorito. The name is now commonly api)lied to any mar- 
l)le having this color and veining. 

Bastard granite. A somewhat indetinite name given by qnarrymen to gneissic or 
schistose rocks, resembling granites in a general way, but ditlering in structure. 
Tlui name is frequently aj)plied by (|uarrymen to any vein or dike ro(d\ occur- 
ring in a granite quarry. 

Bird's-eye-marble. A term used in It)wa to designate a fossil coral (Acervularia 
davidsonia), and us?d for making small ornaments. 

Bituminous. Containing liitumen. 

Breast. The face or wall of a quarry is sometimes called by this name. 

Breccias. Fragrnental stones, the individual particles of which are large and angular 
in form. 

Bluestone. In Maryland a gray gneiss; in Ohio a gray sandstone ; in the Districtof 
Columbia a mica schist; in New York a blue-gray sandstone; in I'ennsylvauia 
a'blue-gray sandstone. A popularterm ; not snfliciently delinite tobt; of value. 

Butt. The butt of a slate quarry is where the overlying rock comes in contact with 
an inclined stratum of slate rock. 

Calcareous. Containing lime. 

Cavernous. Containing irregular cavitiesor pores, due in most cases to the removal 
of some mineral, or in limestones of a fossil. 

Cellular or vesicular. Containing cells or vesicles. This structure is very com- 
mon in recent eruptive rocks, especially theglassy forms. Sometimes the stoue 
contains so many cells that it will lloat on water, as is the case with connuon 
pumice. These cells are in many cases subse(|uently iilled with other minerals, 
and the rock is then called amygdaloidal. The Brighton mehiphyr is the best 
(ixanqde of amygdaloidal structure tbnnd in our building stones. 

Choncoidal fracture. Wlien the surfaces of a chip I)roken otf by a Iiannner are 
curved like a bivalve iiioliusk the stone is said to have a cholicoidal fracture. 
Compact stor.cs, like lithographic limestones, olisidiaus, and Hints, usually 
break in tliis manner. 

Clayholes. Caviticis in stones which arc usually tilled with tine sand or clayey ma- 
teiiiil often of a lighter color than tlxi stone; itself and .so loosely coherent as to 
fall away immediately or to weather out on exposure. They are especially 
prevalent in many of our Triassic sandstones, and, besides being unsightly, are 
elements of wc.-ikness anil should always be avoitled. 

521 



522 Ri:roRT on national museum, issg. 

Concretionary. Made of concretions, or roumlcd particles formed by the collecting of 
mineral matter around some center so as to form a rounded mass composed of con- 
centric layers like the coatings of an onion. When the concretions are small, 
like the roe of a fish, the structure is called oolUic, or if large as a jiea, pinoliiic. 
The best examples of this structure in our building stones are the oolitic lime- 
stones of Bedford, Ind., and other places. A rare structure in crystalline rocks. 

Conglomerates. Fragmental stones composed of large, rounded fragments. 

Coquina. The Spanish name for a shell limestone which occurs abundantly in Flor- 
ida, composed simply of a mass of shells connected together. 

Coral limestone. A rock composed of fragments of corals. 

Crystalline. Consisting wholly of crystals or crystalline particles, not fraf/meufnl. 
Rocks which like granite or crystalline limestone are nuide up wholly of crys- 
talline grains are called cryslaUine-griiinilar or (jranular-cvystaUinc ro(dvs. The 
teviaH micro criisialline. and cri/jito-crijstalUne are often applied to rocks in which 
theindividual particles are too small to be readily distinguished by the unaided 
eye. Such rocks are sometimes called compact, a term which is also applied to 
fragmental rocks of similar texture. 

Curb. A Hat piece of stone placed vertically, bounding the street edges of side- 
walks, (Uc. 

Diabase. A n eruptive rock composed essentially of a plagioclase feldspar and augite. 

Dikes (or dykes). Masses of volcanic rock which have been forced up from below 
in a molten condition to fill fractures or fissures in the earth's crust. Such are 
also called trap-rocks. The diabases and a variety of eruptive rocks friHiuently 
occur in the form of dikes. 

Diorite. An eruptive i-ock com!>os'Hi essenti.ally of a jilagioclase, feldspar, and horn- 
blende. 

Dip. The slope or pitch of the strata, or the nngle which the layers make with 
the ]>lane of the horizon. 

Dolomite. A stone com))osed of mixed calcium and magnesium carbonates. 

A "Dry." A natural seam usually invisible when the rock is freslily quarried, but 
which is brought out on exposure to weather or sometimes during the process 
or cutting. A very serious defect in many stones. 

Efcarpment. A nearlj' vertical natural face of rock or ledge. 

Feldspatliic. Containing feldspar. 

Ferruginous. Containing iron oxides. 

Fibrous. Having a structure as though made up of bundles of distinct fibers. This 
structure is not found in any building stone, but is common in some forms of 
gypsum and of caleite, which are used for making small ornaments. 

Flagstone. Any kind of a stone which separates naturally into thin tabular plates 
suitable for pavements and curbing. Especially applicable to sandstones and 
schists. 

Flint. Quartz in any kind of rock is commonly known to quarrymen as Hint. True 
fiiut is amorphous silica, occurring in nodular form in chalk beds. 

Foliated or schistose. Terms applied to rocks Avhich, like gneiss and schist, have 
their constituents arranged in more or less definite nearly parallel planes. 

Fragmental or clastic. Terms which are applied to rocks composed of fragments, 
like ordinary sandstone. Wheu the fragments are the size of a pea or larger, 
and rounded in form, the structure is called coiiolomcrated, or if the particles 
are angular, hrecciated. 

Freestone. This is a term whiidi has been applied to stones that work freely in any 
direction. Especially applied to sandstones and limestones. A term of no spe- 
cial value, as it is too indefinite. 

Gneiss. A rock of the composition of granite but in which the ingredients are 
arranged in more or less parallel layers. 

Gueissoid. Like gneiss. 

Grain. The direction in a rock at right angles with the rift. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 523 

Granite. A rock consisting of quartz, ortboclase, and mica or other accessory min- 
erals. In the stone-cutter's nomenclature no distinction is made between the 
varieties ; all stones which are liard, granular, and crystallized arc called gran- 
ite. 

Granitoid. Thoroughly crystalline and massive, like granite. 

Granular. A term applied to rocks composed of distinct grains, whether fragmcntal 
and water worn or crystalline. 

Greenstone or griinstein. A term formerly used to designate certain basic erui)livo 
rocks occurring in the form of dikes. Through mistaken notions regarding their 
true nature and from a general similarity in their a])pearance the nann^ was 
made to include a variety of compact, dark-greenish or nearly black rocks, 
which microscopic examination has shown to be principally diabase and dio- 
rite. 

Grit. Any sharp, gritty sandstone or schist used as a whetstone or hone. 

Grubsaw. A saw made from a notched blade of thin iron, and ])rovided with a 
wooden back. Used with sand for sawing stone by hand-power. (.See Plate v.) 

Guys. Kopes or chains used to prevent anything from swinging or moving about. 

Hackly fracture. A term applied when the surfaces of a fracture are rough and 
jagged. 

Joints. Divisional planes wliich divide the rock in the quarry into natural blocks. 
There are usually two or three nearly parallel series called by (luarrymcni 
end joinis, back joints, and bottom joints, according to their ))osition. (See 
section F.) 

Ledge. Any natural solid body of rock. 

Lewis hole. The Lewis* hole consists of a series of two or more hoh^s drilled as 
closely together as possible, and then connected by knocking out the thin i)ar- 
titiou between tliem, forming thus one wide hole, having its greatest diameter 
in a plane with the desired rift. Blasts from sucii holes are wedge-like in 
their action, and by means of them larger and bettcr-shai)ed blocks can be 
taken out than would otherwise be possible. This style of hole is saidt to 
have been devised by a Mr. .Joseph Richards, of Quincy, thongh at about what 
date we are not informed. This same gentleman was also the inventor of the 
bush hammer, which, however, when tirst patented, about 1S:51, consisted of a 
solid piece, instead of several pieces bolted together as now. 

Limestone. Under this term almost all the calcareous (quarried rocks, whether frag- 
mcntal or crystalline, are classified. 

Liver rock. This term is applied to that variety of the Ohio sandstone which breaks 
or cuts as readily in one direction as in another. In other words, the working 
of the stone is not affected by stratification. 

Lyonaise marble. A local term ai)plied to niarbli>s which are composed of a inixtui'e 
of red and while cobus, as those of Mallet's Bay, Vt. 

Marble. Any linn^stone or doloini te capable of being polished and su lied for f)rna- 
mental work. 

Massive; unstratified. Having, no definite arrangement in layers or strata, but the 
various ingredients being thoroughly commingled, as in granite and diabase. 

Nigger head. (I) The black concretionary nodules found in granite; 

(2) Any liard, dark, colored rock weathering out into rounded nodiih's or 
bowlders; 

(3) Slaty rock associated with sandstone. A ([uarryman's term. 
Oolite. A stone composed of small globules resembling the roe of a fish. 
Ophiocalcite. A mixture of serpentine and limestone. 



"This word is spelled by some Louis, 
t Potter's History of (Quincy, Mass. 



524 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

Orbitoides limestone. A fossiliforoiis limestoue abundant in the upper Eocene 
formation in the Southern States. 

Perch. lu Philadelphia, 22 cubic feet are called a perch. A perch of masonry 
contains 24| cubic feet, lf)| x 1^ x 1. It is usually taken at 25 cubic feet. The 
term is falling into disuse. 

Plucky. A term often used by stone-cutters to designate stones -which under the 
chisel break away in irregularly conchoidal chips, and which are therefore diffi- 
cult to trim to a line or to bring to a perfect surface. Common in compact 
and impure limestones. 

Porphyry. Any stone composed of an extremely fine grouudmass in which larger 
crystals are developed. 

Porpliyritic. When a rock consists of a compact or fine and evenly crystalline 
groundniass, throughout which are scattered larger crystals, usually of feld- 
spar, the structure is said to be porphyritic. This structure is quite common in 
granite, but is not particularly noticeable, owing to the slight contrast in color 
between the larger crystals and the finer groundmass. It is most noticeable in 
such rocks as the felsites, in which, as is the case with some of the "porphy- 
ries " of eastern Massachusetts, the groundmass is exceedingly dense and compact 
and of a black or red color, while the largo feldspar crystals are white and 
stand out in very marked contrast. This structure is so striking in appearance 
that rocks possessing it in any marked degree are popularly called porphy- 
ries whatever may be their mineral composition. The term porphyry is said 
to have been originally applied to certain kinds of igneous rocks of a reddish 
or purple c(dor, such as the celebrated red porphyry or " roseoantico" of Egypt. 
The word is now used by the best authorities almost wholly in its adjective 
sense, since any rock may possess this structure whatever its origin or composi- 
tion may be.* 

Putty po"wder, or polishing putty, is a fine whitish powder, cousisting in the com- 
mercial form of about equal parts oxide of tin and lead. Used in polishing 
stone and glass. 

Quarry. Any opening in a ledge for taking out stone. 

Quarry -water. All rocks when first taken from the quarry contain more or less wa- 
ter, which evaporates on exposure, leaving the stone considerably harder. In 
sandstones this quarry water is considered by Newberry to bo a solution of 
silica (Rep. of Judges, Group 1, p. 127). Its composition probably varies greatly 
in (lifiereut classes of rocks. (See p. 3H9.) 

Rhyolite. A i)ost-Tertiary volcanic rock of the composition of granite. 

Rift. The direction in a rock par.allel to the lamination or foliation, and along which 
it splits with greatest ease. 

Rubberstone. A sliarp-gritted Ohio or Indiana sandstone used for sharpening shoe- 
knives ; ;ilso called a shoe-stone. 

Rubble maisonry. Rough, nnsqnared stones laid in iiregnlar courses. 

Saccharoidal. llnAiug a. gi-ain and structure like that of loaf sugar. Common in 
crystalline limestone. 

Salt veins. A terra applied by the quairymen to the coarse granite veins from 2 
inches to 2 or more feet thick, and which are found intersecting granites and 
older crystalline rocks. 

Sv ab. A local term used in certain sandstone quarries in Iowa. The stone is very 
massive and is broken from the quarry in irregular lumps by blasting. These 
lumps are then trimmed down to a slia[ie approximately rectangular by means 
of heavy picks. Tliis process is deuouiinated scabhhi;/. 

Sap. The term originated from imagined analogy between the decomposed layer 
and the sap wood of trees. A term applied to the stained and worthless por- 
tions of the stone extending inward from the point. 

* Hull, I'liihling and Ornamental Stones, p. 75. 



BU1LDIX(; AND OKNAMKN'rAI> tS'lONES. 525 

Sculp. 'I'o sculp wljitcs is to ))iv;i!< n[» tlio l;ln^(^ blocks iiilo long slahs, stiitiil)h) to 

si)lil. 
Segregated. A term ;i[)iilictl to tlio veins Mid nodiiliir nuisscs of liner or coarser 

texture tliiit liavo fornnMl in j^ranitc and other crystalline roi;ks ; as for I'xani- 

plo, the black patches in i^ranite. 
Serpentine. A rock composed of hydrons magnesia silicate. 
Shell limestone. Rock composed of cousolidatctl shells. 
Siliceous. Contaiuiuit silica. 
Spalls. This is a term which is usi'd (juite generally by sionc-cuttt^'s to denote the 

chips and other waste mat(!rial cut from a block in process of dressing. 
Spider-web. A term applied to the wa\'y lines in the Ohio sandstones, and which 

are caused by stains of iron o\ide. Freiiueutly seen iu sawed stonea, especially 

where the lauiiuatiou is slightly obliiiue or irregular. It is very like the grain 

of wood which shows in a planed l)oard. 
Split rock. This term a[)plies to those rocks possessing tabular structure, or which 

cleave easily in the lines of lamination, and are consequently ai)plicable to the 

lirejiaration of llagging aud for curbstones. 
Stalactitic marble. This is a marble which is formed by the dci)osit of lime car- 
bonates from waters percolating into cavities or caves. 
Strata. Layers or beds of rock of the sanu^. kind lying ono upon another. 
Stratified; bedded. Composed of layers or beds lyiug parallel to one another, as is 

so frec^uently seen iu sandstone and limestone. When the strata are line and 

leaf-liko the structure is called lamiuated or shaly. 
Stieaked. Having some of the mineral constituents so arranged as to give tlu^ rock 

a striped or streaked appearaiu'c. In the eruptive rocks this structure isoflen 

produced by the flowing of the mass iu a partially cooled condition. It is best 

seen in obsidian, rhyolite, and ([uartz por])hyries. 
Stock. The useful rock taken from a quarr^'. 

Strike. The direction in strata at right angles to the dip, or the co\irse of a horizon- 
tal lino on the surface of inclined beds. 
Syenite. Agranular massive rock with the structure of a granite, but containing 

uo (] uartz. 
Trachyte. A j)ost Tertiary volcanic rock of the composition of syouitc. 
Trap or trap rock. (See Dikes aud Greenstone.) The luime applies to the manner iu 

which a rock occurs, and i.s not itself a name of specilic value. 
Travertine. A calcareous rock (kqiosited by water from solution, and which was 

used as a building stone in Kouu\ (See text.) 
Verde antique. Auti(]^uo green. A rock coiu[>oscd of a mixture ol" serpentine and 

limes ton(^. 
Vitreous or glassy. These terms are applied to rocks that have a structure like glass, 

as obsidian. Rocks of this type are at prescut little used for any kind of work. 



Appendix G. 

catalogue of the collection of building and ornamental 
stones in the u. s. national museum. 

I. United States and Tekiutories. 

ALABAJIA. 

Limestone. Fine ; dark drab. Calera, Shelby Couutj'. Calera Lime Works. Ceu- 
teunial, 187G. 17481. 

Fossil iferoiLs ; scnii-crystalliuc ; very light drab. Near Florence, Lauderdale 

County. Douglass <iuarries. Maj. W. K. King, U. S. Army. 27328. 

Fossiliferous; semi-crystalline; light drab. Near Florence, Lauderdale County. 

Harkin's (xuarry. Maj. W. R. King, U. S. Army. 27327. 
Coarse ; porous ; light buff. Turk's Cave. U. S. Geological Survey, 1884. 

35782. 
Oolitic; tine; light colored. Near Dickson, Colbert County. Quarries of T. 

L. Fossick & Co. Tenth Census, 1880; 2 specimens. 2675'J. 
Fine; light brown; fossiliferous. Near Tuscumbia, Colbert County. Bowser's 

quarry. Maj. W. R. King, U. S. Army. 27325. 
Oolitic; semi-crystalline; drab. Trinity, Lawrence County. Trinity quarry. 

Maj. W. R. King, U. S. xVrmy. 27329. 

Fossiliferous; semi-crystalline; light colored. Near Leighton, Lawrence 

County. Walker's quarry. Maj. W. R. King, U. S. Army. 27320. 
Limestone [marble]. White; crystalline. About 4 by 4 by 2 inches. Talladega 
County. Centennial, 1876. 17482. 

Pure white; crystalline. .5f by 4 by 1 inches. Talladega, Talladega County. 

A. W. Bowie's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27314. 
Sandstone. Dark yellow ; coarse ; porous. De Kalb County. Collinsvillo quarry. 
Tenth Census. 25918. 

Gray; lino and compact; with pyrite. Near Greensport, St. Clair County. 

Gibson's quarry. Tenth Census. 27330. 

ARIZONA. 

Limestone. Fine; light butf. Near Albuquenpie, Yavapai County. John S. F. 

Batehcn, 1S84. 35745. 
Sandstone. Deep pink; fine and compact. Yavapai County. Chino (quarry. John 

S. F. Batcheu. 35571. 

Light colored ; lino grained. Yavai)ai County. Canon Diablo quarry. John 

S. F. Batehen. 3-5744. 

ARKANSAS. 

Elasolite syenite. Very coarse. Large block, 5 feet square by 12 inches thick; 
one face polished, and with carved inscription, " Specimen from the Diamond Jo 
Granite Co., Hot Springs, Arkansas." Hot Springs. Diamond Jo quarry. John 
S. F. Batehcn, 1883. 38599. 
526 



J'.UILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 527 

Blaeolite syenite. Fiuo; <^recni,sU gniy. Hot Springs. Diaiiioiul Jo (^iiany. John 

S. F. Batclum, 188:5. 27r,19. 
Liniestoue. Oolitic; lino; dark drab. lUausctt, Scott County. Tenth Ccnsu.s; 
1S80. 26643. 

Quartzito; light colored; line and compact. Uald Knob, White County. Bald 

Knob quarry. Tenth Census. 26524. 

CAUrUKNIA. 

Steatite [soapstone]. Fine; compact; blue gray. A. 1'. lU.ikc. 2r)()l !. 

Marble. White; yellow veined. .'')^ by .'>i by f inchl^s. Ivern County. Tenth Cen- 
sus, 1880. 2.^^469. 

Limestone [marble]. White; green mottled. Two small shi.l)s. Near Auburn, Placer 
County. Kobert E. C. Stearns, 1883. 27352. 

White, and white with dark veins; crystalline. Two specimens. Indian Dig- 
gings, El Dorado County. Tt'ntii Census, 18,-;o. 25154. 

Magnesian limestone [marble]. Dark gray ; com^iact. Colfax, Phicer County. 
Colfax quarry. Tenth Census, l^StK 25()3ii. 

Stalagmite [marble]. Pinkish. 4 by :!_^ liy 1 inches. Mis. .J. L. Wilkius, 1882. 

27301. 
Travertine [marble]. Massive; white; translucent. Til^•■!(^small pieces. Popularly 

called California onyx. San Luis Obispo. Chas. L. Hall it Co., 18SL 36758. 

White; translucent. About 3.1 inches. San Luis ()bis[)o. Joiin Dinuuid, New 

York, 1884. 36759. 

Massive; white; translucent. Two .specimens. Near San Luis Obispo, San 

Luis Obispo County. San Luis OI)ispo quarry. Tenth <Jensus, 1880. 25571. 

Light green. 11 by 5 by 1 inches. Sacr.irnento Kiver, near Crescent Falls, 

near Berryvale, Siskiyou County. J. S. Diller, 1884. 36886. 

Emerald green ; tine and compact. iVbout 3 by 3 by 1| inches. Falls of Sacra- 
mento River, Siskiyou County. Cluis. II. Townsend, 188L 3ij74(i. 

Reddish brown. 10 by 5 by 1 inches. Suisuu City, Solano County. Centen- 

nial, 187(i. 25255. 

Brown. About 10 by 7i by 1 inch(\s. Suisun City, Solauo County. Centen- 

nial, 1876. 25256. 

lirown; mottled. AI)ont 7'. by 5 by J inches. Suisiin City, Soiano County. 

Centennial, 1876. 16054. 

Brown and amber yellow. 5 pieces irregular shaped. Suisuu City, Solauo 

County. B. K. Emerson, 1886. 38445. 
Biotite granite. Medium; light gray. Rocklin, Placer County. G. GrifQth's 
([uarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25531). 

Hornblende biotite granite. Coarse; gray. Penryn, Placer County. G.Griffith's 
quarry. Tenth Ceu.sus, 1880, 25542. 

Hornblende granite CO- Medium; very dark gray, nearly black. I'enryu, Placer 
Comity. (J. (iritdth's (piarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25554. 

The abundance of plagioclase feldsapar and snnill anu)unt of orthoclas 

in this rock place it intermediato between true granite and (pnirtz diorite. 

Basalt. Compact; dark gray. Bridgeport, Solano County. Used only for street 

j,vavemeut. Thomason's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5663. 
— -T Compact; dark graj'. Near Petaluma, Sonoma County. Used only for street 
pavement. Quarry of ,T. Coddcn Bros, and others. Tenth Census, 1880. 
25664. 



528 REPORT ON NATIONAL IMUSEUM, 1886. 

Sandstone. Coarse; light brown. NuarAlaiuodii, Alameda Couuty. Teutli Census, 
25569. 

Fine; gray. Angol Island, Marin County. Angel Island quarry. Teutli Cen- 

sus. 25570. 

Fine; gray. Livermoro, Alameda County. Livermore quarry. Tenth Census. 

25665. 
Brown. Hay wards, Alameda County. Exeelsior quarry. Tenth Census. 25801. 

Coar.se ; very light bull'. Near San Josd, Santa Clara County. Goodrich quarry. 

Tenth Census. 25797. 

Coarse ; very light buii". Near San Jos6, Santa Clara County. Goodrich quarry 

Tenth Census. 25798. 

Coarse; very light gray. Near San Jose, Santa Clara County. Goodrich quarry. 

Tenth Census. 25799. 
Andesite tuff. Coarse; gray. Near Cordelia, Solano County. Thoniason's quarry. 
Tenth Census, 1880. 25800. 

COLORADO. 

Limestone. Fine; black. Pitkin, Gunnison County. Sunnysido quarry. J. S. F. 
Batchen, 1884. 35990. 

Fine; dark, mottled. Pitkin, Gunnison County. J. S. F. Batchen, 188-1. oOOll. 

Coarse; jiink. Morrison, Jeflerson County. Morrison quarry. J. S. F. Bat- 

chen, 1884. 35995. 

Semi-crystalline; dull; pink mottled. Near Morrison, Jellerson County. Mor- 

rison quarry. J. S. F. Batchen, 1884. 359'JG. 
Biotite granite. Medium; gray; indistinctly pori)liyritic. Lawson, Clear Creek 

County. Quarry of Couuuet and Ivers. J. S. F. Batchen, 1884. 35980. 
Medium; gray. Georgetown, Clear Creek County. J. S. F. Batchen, 1884. 

35987. 

Coarse; light red. Platte Canon, Jefferson and Douglas Counties. Govern- 

ment quarries. Tenth Census, 1880. 25784. 
Muscovite gneiss. Medium ; light gray. Lawson, Clear Cr(!ek County. Quarry 

of Commet and Ivers. J. S. F. Batchen, 1884. 35981. 
Diorite. Fine; light greenish gray. Monarch, Chaffee County. II. H. Church's 

(juarry. J. S. F. Batchen, 1884. 36004. 
Sandstone. Light drab, laminated with blue gray. Fort Collins, Larimer County. 

Fort Collins quarry. Tenth Census. 25783. 

Fine; light colored. Fort Collins, Larimer County. Fort Collins quarry. 

Tenth Census. 25787. 

Light colored; fine and compact. Near Fort Collins, Larimer County. E. B. 

Yout's quarry. Tenth Census. 27005. 

Fine ; light red. Near Fort Ccdlins, Larimer County. La Porte quarry. Tenth 

Census. 27023. 

Nearly quartzite ; light pink ; fine and compact. Lungwort, Larimer County. 

Longwort quarry. John S. F. Batchen, 35997. 

Light red; laminated. Greeley, Larimer County. John S. F. Batchen. 36001. 

Nearly quartzite ; light colored; fine and compact. Buckhorn, Larimer County. 

C. i. McWhorter's quarry. John S. F. Batchen. 36831). 
Fine; light colored. Coal Creek, Fremont County. Coal Creek quarry. 

Tenth Census. 2.57d9. 
— — Fine; light colored. Arkansas River, Fremont County, Brandford quarry, 

Tenth Census, 25891. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 529 

Saudstoiie. Fine; olive-tiutod. Near CaQou City, Fremout Comity. Quarry of 
Blodcty A: Nutts. Tenth Census, 257S5. 

Fine; iight colored. Near Canon City, Fremout Couuty. Quarry of Frank 

ifc Lutz. Johu S. F. Batcbeu. ;',r)983. 

Triassic; light red; micaceous. Sec. 3, T. 4, R. 70 W., .TeHer.son Couuty. Welch 

quarr^'. Tenth Census. 20858. 

Triassic; fine; light brown. Golden, Jefferson County. Centennial, 187(3. 

27124. 

Light gray; tine ; micaceous. Trinidad, Las xiuimas County. Trinidad (quarry. 

Tenth Census. 25788. 

Quartzite. Nearly wliite ; very line and compact. Pitliiu, Gunnison County. 
Quarry of lluck & Co. John S. F. Batchen, 1881. :);i8:!8. 

Rhyolite tuff. Light pink. Used for general building in Denver. Douglas, Doug- 
las County. Colorado Manufacturing Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 27;iG0. 

Light colored; line; vesicular. Used for general building in Denver. Near 

Castle Rock, Douglas County. G. F. Girardot's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 
25780. 

CO.XXECTICUT. 

Dolomite [marble]. Wiiite and bluish ; crystalline. Two specimens. East Canaan, 
Litchfu'ld County. E. P. Allen's (|uarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26435. 

AVhite; crystalline. East Canaan, Litchfield County. A. Maxwell's quarry. 

Centennial, 1870. 17544. 

White; crystalline. East Canaan, Litchfield County. Centennial, 1876. 17545. 

White; crystalline. East Canaan, Litchfield County. Centennial, 1876. 17546. 

White, dark mottled ; crystalline. p]ast Canaan, Litchfield County. Centen- 

nial, 1876. 17501. 

White; crystalline. About 12 by 12 liy 8 inches. East Canaan, Litchfield 

Couuty. Centennial, 1876. 17562. 

White; crystalline. Falls Village, Litchfield Couuty. Mathby's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2016"J. 

Biotite granite. Fine; very light gray. West Norfolk, Litchfield County. Cen- 
tennial, 1870. 17535. 

Fine; gray. West Norfolk, Litchfield County. Ceutenuial, 1870. 17537. 

Fine; gray. West Norfolk, Litchfield County. Centennial, 1870. 17538. 

Fine; gray. West Norfolk, Litchfield County. Centennial, 1870. 17558. 

Fine; gray. West Norfolk, Litchfield County. Quarry of Snow & Wooster. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26416. 

Coarse; porphyritic; pink and gray mottled. Foot cube. Leete's Island, New 

Haven County. Centennial, 1870. 25202. 

Medium; pink. 6 inch cube. Leete's Island, N»'-w Haven County. Centen- 

nial, 1870. 2.5577. 

Medium; pink. inch cube. Leete's Island, New Haven County. J. Beattie's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 254,")G. 

Fine; light pinkish gray. Foot cube. Leete's Island, New Haven Couuty. 

Centennial, ]87(). 17.530. 

Coarse; pinkish gray. Foot cube. Leete's Ishind, New Haven County. Cen- 

tennial, 1876. 17525. 

Medium; gray. Foot cube. Branford, New Haven County. Centennial, 1876. 

17532. 

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 34 



530 KEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Biotite granite. Coarse; piuk. Foot cube. iStouy Creek, New Havcu County. 
Centennial, 187G. 17521. 

Coarse; piuk. East bank of Stony Creek, New Haven County. J. Kobbiu's 

quarry. Tentli Census, 1880. 25947. 

Fine; gray. Groton, opposite New London, New Londou County. Quarry of 

Merritt, Gray & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 25485. 

Very coarse; red. Lyme Station, New Loudon County. Quarry of C. J. Mc- 

Ciirdy'& E. E. Salisbury. Tenth Census, 188U. 2G07'J. 

Fine; gray. Foot cube. Millstone Point, New Loudon County. Centennial, 

187G. 17527. 

Fine; light gray. Foot cube. Mystic Bridge, Now Londou County. Centen- 

nial, 187G. 17520. 

Fine; gray. Waterford, New London County. Quarry of J. B. Palmer & Co. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25425. 

Medium; gray. Foot cube. Norwalk, Fairlield County. Umpewang quarry. 

Centennial, 1876. 17522. 

Medium; gray. Brancuville, Fairlield County. Umpewang quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 2tJ337. 

Fine; gray. Millstone Point, Niautic, New Loudon County. Centennial, 1876. 

17540. 

Fine; light gray. Foot cube. Thomaston, Litchlield County. Centennial, 

1S7(). 17521). 
Muscovite biotite granite. Fine; light gray. Foot cube. Thomaston, Litchfield 
County. Centennial, 1876. 17528. 

- Fine ; light gray. Foot cube. Reynolds Bridge, Litchfield County. Centen- 

nial, 187(i. 17524. 

Biotite muscovite granite. Fine ; light gray. Near Thomaston Station, Litch- 
field County. Plymouth Granite Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 20298. 

Biotite muscovite gneiss. Fine ; light gray. Roxbury, Litchfield County. E. 
Mowers quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26624. 

Muscovite biotite gneiss. Fine; light gray. Foot cube. Roxbury Station, 
Litchfield County. Centennial, 1876. 17531. 

Fine; light gray. Foot cube. Ansonia, New Haven County. Centeunial, 

187G. 1752:?. 

Fine; light gray. Ansonia, New Haven County. Quarry of Spring & Willcox. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26195. 

Biotite gneiss. Medium; gray. East Canaan, Litchfield County. Centennial, 1876. 
17564. 

Fine; gray. Near Brauford, New Haven County. C. D. Allen's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1830. 25618. 

— y- Fine; dark gray; porphyritic. Foot cube. Milford, New Haven County. Cen- 
tennial, 1876. 17.533. 

Coarse; light gray. Near Lyme Station, New Loudon County. Quarry of Luce 

& Hoskius. Tenth Census, 1880. 25451. 

Medium; gray. Sterling, "Windham County. J. W. Boswoll's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26388. 

Coarse; gray. Sterling, near Hartford, Windham County. Quarry of Oneco 

Ledge Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25484. 

Coarse; pinkish gray. East Killingly, Windham County. J. Oatley's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26299. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL KTONES. 531 

Biotite gneiss. Coarse; gray. Stafford Springs, Tolland CoiiiiLy. Triiusdcll (|uarry. 
Tonth Census, ISSO. *26277. 

Fine; gray. East Glastonbury, Hartford County. C. Ilonti^'s (j[uarry. Toutli 

Census, 1880. 2G415. 

Hornblende biotite gneiss. Fine: dark gray. Middlotown, IMiddlcsex County. 
Centennial, 1^7(3. 17541. 

Fiue; dark gray. Iladdaiu, Middlesex^ County. I. Arnold's (|uarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 20327. 

Medium; dark gray. Greenwich, Fairlield County. T. Kitch's (]uariy. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 263:58. 

Medium; dark gray. Greenwich, Fairheld County. William liich's c^uarry. 

Teuth Census, 1880. 2()33l>. 

Coarse; dark gray. North ISridgeport, Fairheld County. W. Beer's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2GG1'J. 

Granite. Turned columu of coarse i)ink porphyritic granite. IG inches high and G 
inches in dianu-ter. Leete's Island, Now Haveu County. Centennial, 1876. 1756G. 

Diabase. Mesozoie; fuio and compact ; dark gray; nearly Idack on a iiolished sur- 
face. Usiul chielly for street pavements. West Kock, New Haven County. C. 
W. Blakeslee's (piari-y. Tenth Ccinsus, 18SU. 2.")912. 

Sandstone. Triassie; brown; mediiun. 12-inch cube. Portland, Middlesex County. 

Shaler it Hall Quarry Company. Centennial, 1876. 17r)34. 
Triassie; coarse; bi'own. I'ortland, Middlesex County. 17536. 

Triassie; medium; brown. Portland, Middlesex County. Middlesex quarry. 

Centennial, 1^76. 175.")7. 

— — Triassie; medium; brown. I'ortland, Middlesex County. Middlesex Quarry 
Company. 'J'entii Census. 2.">424. 

Triassie; fine; brown. Portland, Middlesex County. Qiian-y of Shaler it 

Hall. Tenth Census. 2.')4H3. 

Triassie; fine; brown. I'ortland, Middlesex County. Quarry of Brainard & 

Co. Tenth Census. 26077. 

Triassie; m(^diulu; red. ManchesLer, Hartford Couul-y. C. O. Woleott's 

(jnari-y. Tenth Census. 2()12'J. 

Triassie; fine; red. Manchester, Hartford County. (;. O. Woleott's quarry. 

Tenth C(!nsus. 2G129. 

Triassie; coarse; reddish gray. East Havtm, New Haven County. IJobert 

Kedtield. Tenth Census. 2G4.''.3. 



Quartzite. Potsdam; reddish brown ; line and compact ; us(id for general building, 
tiling, and ornamental work. Sioux Falls, Minnehiiba County. 'I'luith Census. 
26(J62. 

Potsdam; light red ; tine and compact ; us(ul for general building, tiling, and 

ornamental work. Sioux Falls, Minnehaha County. J. L. Phelps's (quarry. 
Ttuith Census-. 26()G!5. 

DELAWARE. 

Augite hoinblende gneiss. Fine; dark gray. Near Wilmington, N(!w Castle 
County. P. P. Tyro's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25401. 

Dolomite [marble]. Lower Silurian; white; erystalline. Iloekessin, New Castle 
County. Jackson Lirao and Marble Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25402. 



532 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 

Steatite [soapstone]. Fine; compact; light blue gray. Ou laud of W. W. EvaiiH, 
uortli of Woodley Laiie road, Washington. Dr. William S. Mcllhenney, 1886. 
38510. 

FI.OUIDA. 

Limestone. Oolitic; porous aud fiiable; nearly white. Key West. New Orleans 
Exposition, 1885. 37631. 

Coarse shell rock ("coquina ") ; light colored. Suwannee River. John S. F. 

Batchen, 1884. 35898. 
Sandstone. Phosphatic; light colored; coarsely cellular. Near Hawthorne, Alachua 
County. C. A. Simmous's quarry. Tenth Census. 25208. 

Phosphatic; nearly white ; coarsely vesicular. Suwannee River. John S. F. 

Batchen, 1884. 35899. 



Limestone [marble]. Lower Siluriau ; pink; coarse; crystalline. Tate, Pickens 

County. Georgia Marble Company, 1886. 38367. 
Lower Silurian; white with dark blotches; coarse; crystalline. Two speci- 
mens. Tate, Pickens County. Georgia Marble Company, 1886. 38368. 

Lower Silurian; pure white; coarse; crystalline. Turned column, 6 inches 

long, 1 inch diameter. Tate, Pickens County. Georgia Marble Company, 
1886. 38370. 

Lower Siluriau ; white and dark mottled; coarse; crystalline. Tate, Pickens 

County. Georgia Marble Company, 1886. 38369. 
Dolomite [marble]. Purplish gray ; fine aud compact. Near Chattanooga, Catoosa 

County. Chickamaugua quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25916. 
Muscovite granite. Fine ; light gray. Stone Mountain Station, on Georgia 
Railroad, De Kalb County. Stone Mountain quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5905. 
Hornblende biotite gneiss. Fine; dark gray. Atlanta, Fulton County. P. 

Lynch's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25892. 
Gneiss [-with pagodite]. Light green. A gneissoid rock containing green i)ago- 
dite. Pagodite is a soft hydrous rock, from which the Chinese sometimes carve 
miniature pagodas; heuce its name. 3^ by 4 by 2 inches. Near Washington, 
Wilkes County. Prof. C. N. Shepard, 1880. 26818. 

IDAHO. 

Sandstone. Coarse ; light colored. Near Boisd City, Ada County. Penitentiary 
quarry. Tenth Census. 26660. 

Coarse; light colored. Near Bois6 City, Ada County. Penitentiary quarry. 

Tenth Census. 26661. 

ILLINOIS. 

Limestone. Sub-Carbonil'oroua ; semi-crystalline; dark gray. Two specimens. 

Shetlerville, Hardin County. G. A. Craiger's quarr^r. Tenth Census, 1880. 

26393. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; finely fossiliferous ; brown. Near Chester, Randolph 

County. J. Hern's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25744. 

Sub-Carboniferous; semi-crystalline; dark gray. Chester, Randolph County. 

J. Hern's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25685. 

Sub-Carboniferous; somi-crystalline ; light gray. Near Chester, Randolph 

County. Quarry of Southern lilluois Penitentiary. Tenth Census, 18i0. 
25686. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 533 

Limestone. Su1»-Carboniforons; fossiliferons ; light colored. Near Columbia, Mon- 
roe County. Quarry of P. Friertlich & Son. Tenth Census, 1880. 27194. 

Compact; fossiliferous ; yello^Y. Quincy, Adams County. Centennial, 187G. 

17510. 

Upper Silurian; compact; very light colored. 15-inch cube. Lemont, Cook 

County. Singer & Talcott Stone Company. J. S. F. Batchcn, 1883. 27512. 

Compact; light colored; oolitic. Near Jonesborougli, Union County. C. G. 

Flangh's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2672G. 

Light colored; oolitic. Near Joucsborough, Union Coiinty. FuUenweihn-'s 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2t)727. 

Light colored ; oolitic. Near Jonesborougli, Union County. Dougherty's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26728. 

Light colored ; oolitic. Near Jonesborough, Union County. Willard's (luany. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 20729. 

Compact ; fossiliferous; very light colored. Rockport, Pike County. Marble- 

head Lime Company. J. S. F. Batcheu, 188:5. 27506. 

Semi-crystalline; light colored. Kinderhook, Pike County. Marblehead 

Lime Company. J. S. F. Catchen, 1883. 27.507. 

Compact ; light gray. Near luka, Marion County. Middleton quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25999. 

Compact ; light gray. Two specimens. Belknap, Johnson County. J. Bell's 

quarry. Tenth Ceusus, 1880. 27197. 

Compact; light colored. Sagetown, Henderson County. J. S. F. Batchen, 

1882. 27199. 
Siliceous magnesian limestone. Sub-Carboniferous; compact ; dark drab. Near 

Breese, Cliuton County. J. Taylor's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 256GI. 
Magnesian limestone. Fossiliferous ; light colored; crystalline. Near Qnincy, 

Adams County. O. A. Turner's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27078. 
Dolomite. Silurian; compact; light colored. Joliet, Will County. W. Warner's 

quarry. Tenth Censns, 1880. 265:W. 

Upper Silurian; porous ; light gray. Kankakee, Kankakee County. Kanka- 

kee Stone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26851. 

Compact; light colored. North of Joliet, Will County. W. Kromnieyer'a 

quarry. Tenth Census, bSriO. 2()535. 
Compact; very light drab. Near Joliet, Will County. I. Nobes's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26530. 

Compact; very light dr.ab. Near Joliet, Will County. I. Nobes's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26537. 

Compact ; light colored. North of Joliet, Will County. Quarry of Bruce & 

Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 26.53,8. 
Upper Silurian; compact; light colored. Near Joliet, Will County. Joliet 

Stone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26533. 
Upper Silurian; compact; light colored. Joliet, Will County. Joliet Stone 

Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26534. 

Upper Silurian ; compact; light colored. Near Joliet, Will County. Quarry 

of Sanger & Moody. Tenth Census, 1880. 26543. 

Upper Silurian; compact; light colored. North of Joliet, Will County. 

Quarry of Bruce &, Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 26539. 

Upper Silurian; compact; light colored. Joliet, Will. County. Quarry of 

Davidson Brothers, Tenth Census 1880. 26540. 



534 REPORT ON NATIONTAL MUSEUM, 188fi. 

Dolomite. Upper Silurian; compact; light colored. Joliet, Will County. C. 
Warner's quarry. Tenth Census, 1680. 26541. 

Upper Silurian; compact; light colored. NearLcniont, Conk County. Excelsior 

Stone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26542. 

Upper Silurian; compact; light colored. Near Leraont, Cook County. Singer 

& Talcott Stone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26527. 

Upper Silurian ; compact; light colored. Lemont, Cook County. Cliicago »fc 

Lcmont Stone Company. Tenth Census, 18"i0. 2().528. 

■ IFpper Silurian; compact; light colored. Near Lemont, Cook County. Chi- 

cago & Lemont Stone Company. Tenth Census, iSrtlt. 26.529. 

Upper Silurian; compact; light colored. Near Lemon 1, Cook County. Illi- 

nois Stone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26.5:!0. 

Upper Silurian; compact; light coloi-ed. Near Leniout, Cook County. Singer 

&. Talcott Stone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26526. 

Upper Silurian; line; compact; light colored. Lemont, Cook County. Quarry 

of Boyer & Corneau. J. S. F. Batcheu, 1882. 2711)1. 

Upper Silurian; compact; light colored. Near Lemont, Cook County. Earu- 

shaw & Bodenschatz's quarry. Tenth Ceusus, 1880. 265.U. 

Upper Silurian; compact; light colored. Sag Bridge, Cook County. Euter- 

prise Stone Company. J. S. F. Batcheu, 1883. 27:>48. 

Upper Silurian; compact; light colored. Sag Bridge, Cook County. J. S. 

F, Batchen, 1883. 27505. 

Upper Silurian ; nearly black from bituminous m.atter. 18-inch cube. Chi- 

cago, Cook County. Quarry of IT. Rico &. Son. J. S. F. Barclien, 1883. 
27533. 

Upper Silurian; cellular; dark drab. Chicago, Cook County. Quarry of 

Stearns & Co. J. S. F. Batchen, 1883. 27823. 

Upper Silurian; compact; light colored. Chicago, Cook County. Ledlie & 

Corse, 1884. 29642. 

Upper Silurian; compact; light colored. Chicago, Cook County. Quairy of 

H. Rice &. Son. J. S. F. Batchen, 1883. 27501. 

Upper Silurian; light colored ; very lino and compact. Aurora, Kane County. 

A. Berthold's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26959. 
- — — Upper Silurian ; light colored; very fine and compact. Aurora, Kane County. 

A. Berthold's ([uarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26960. 
Bituminous dolomite. Upper Silurian; coarse; cellular; stained nearly black by 
bituminous matter. Near Chicago, Cook County. Artesian Well quarry. J. S. 
F. Batchen, 1884. 35500. 
Calcareous dolomite. Sub-Carboniferous; compact; fossiliferous; dark gray. 
Saline, Grantfork P. O., Madison County. S. Bardill's quarry. Tenth Census, 
1880. 27190. 
Sandstone. Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light colored. Ne.ar Chester, Raud()l]>h 
County. John Hern's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25832. 

Carboniferous; fine; light brown. Near Pinkueyville, Perry County. John 

Day's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27188. 

• Light pink; fine and compact. Two specimens. Near Dongola, Union County. 

F. Neibauer. Tenth Census, 1880. 27195. 

' Carboniferous; fine; light gray. Near Xenia, Clay County. William IIa;ig'8 

quarry. Tenth Census. 2.5646. 
• — - Sub-Carboniferous; fine; yellowish brown. Near Chester, Randolph County, 
Quarry of Southern Illinois Penitentiary. Tenth Census. 25687. 



BUILDTNf} AND ORNAMENTAL STONES, 535 

Sandstone. Fine; brown. Two speciinons, liglil, and dink. Near Carbondalo, 
Jackson Comity. Eawle's quarry. Johu S. F. Batclieu. 28502. 



Limestone. Niagara; compact; yellow and drab. Wabash, Wabash County. 
Quarry of l}rid<res & Scott. Tenth Census, 1880. 2r)G0I. 

Niag.ara; compact; (lark drab. North Vernou, .Jenniii<,fs County. Quarry of 

P. Conkliii jfc. Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 2r>riSl). 

Sub-Carboniferous; compact; drab; linely fossiliferous. Oakall.a, Putnam 

County. Centennial, 187(1. 25:117. 

Sub-Carboniierous; compact; light colored. Two specimens. Near Green- 

castle, Putn.am County. W. Steeg's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25871). 

Sub-Carboniferous; compact; drab. Spencer, Owen County. B.Schweitzer's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25749. 

Sul)-Carboniferous; serai-crystalline; gray. Avoca, Lawrenc(^ Counky. Quarry 

of Thondinson »."t Keid. J. S. V. Batchen, 1882. 2719f'). 

Sid)-Carboniferous; oolitic; light colored. Bedford, Lawrence County. 

Quarry of Tiiondiuson & licid. .T. S. F. Batchen, l8S,i. 27.'302. " 

Sub-Carboniferous; oolitic ;' light colored. Bedford, Lawrence County. 

Quarry of Thondinson & Reid. J. S. F. Batchen, 1883. 27511. 

Sub-Carboniferous; oolitic ; dark gray. Bedford, Lawrence County. Iloosier 

Stone Company. General B. F. Scrihner, 1885. 37422. 

Sub-Carboniferous; oolitic; dark' gray. Bedford, L.awrence County. Cen- 

tennial, 187(;. 25032. 

Sul)-Carboniferous ; oolitic; light colored. Near Bedford, Lawrence County. 

Quarry of Voris, Rodgers & Co. Tenth Census, 1830. 2.5(;!)3. 

I 

Sub-Carboniferous; oolitic; light colored. Ne.ir Bedford, Lawrence County. 

Chicago and Bedford Stone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5(101. 

Sub-Carboniferous; oolitic; light colored. Bedford, Lawrence Couid-y. (Jeu- 

tennial, 1870, 25034. 

Sub-Carboniferous; compact; drab. Salem, Washington County. Centennial, 

187G. 2503(). 

Sub-Carboniferous; oolitic; light colored. Near Salem, Washington County, 

E. Zink's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25(;(i2. 

Tipper Silurian ; coarsely fossiliferous ; dark gr.ay. Vernon, .Jennings County. 

(."enteniuaj, 187(). 250.'?3. 

Compact; light, with d:uk blotches. Evausville, Vanderburgh County. Cen- 

tenni.al, 187(;, 25204, 

Compact; light, with dark spots. Evausville, Vanderliurgh County. Cen- 

teninal, ]87(). 2.5031. 

Drab, dark spotted; coarsely fossiliferous. Evaiu'ville, Vanderburgh County. 

Centennial, 187(1. 2f;029. 

Light colored ; oolitic; very fine grained and con.pact. Dressed block 2G by 14 

by 13 inches. Face with carved inscription, as follows: "From Harrison 
County, 3 miles south of Corydon, and exists in inexhiiustible (piantlties." 
Centennial Connnission, 187G. 2.5219. 

Light colored; oolitic. Cube 25 inches in diaiueter, elaborately carved; face 

witli words Iloosier Stono Co., Bedford, Indiana; right side with carved 
fruits, flowers, .and lion's head ; left side with female head, surrounded by 
wreath of oak and other loaves. Giftof Iloosier StoneCompany, 188G, 38861. 



536 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Bituminous limestone. Sub-Carboniferous; oolitic; li<^ht colored. Ellottsvillc, 
Monroe County. Centennial, 1876. 25348. 

Snb-Carboniferons; oolitic; light colored. Near Ellettsville, Monroe County. 

J. Matthews & Sons' quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25741. 

Sub-Carbouiferons ; light colored ; finely fossiliferons. Stiuesville, Monroe 

County. W. II. McHenry's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25748. 

Sub-Carboniferous; oolitic; light colored. Near Spencer, Owen County. 

Qnarry of Howard &, Dcnig. Tenth Census, 1880. 25750. 

Sub-Carboniferous; oolitic; light colored. Near Fort Ritner, Lawrence County. 

E. B. Dixon's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25683. 
Bituminous maguesian limestone. Devonian; compact; dark drab. Kokonio, 

Howard County. G. W. Defenbaugh's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25G35. 
Lithographic limestone. Sub-Carijoniferous; compact; drab. Spencer, Owen 

County. Centennial, 1876. 25370. 

Sub-Carboniferous; drab. 10^ by 7^- by 2J inches. Silverville, Lawrence 

County. Centennial, 1876. 25030. 
Magnesian limestone. Sub-Carboniferous; oolitic; light colored. Near Bedford, 
Lawrence County. Quarry of N. C. Hinsdale & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 27075. 

Niagara; compact; light drab. Near Oakdale, .Jennings County. Hicks & 

Hone's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25590. 

Niagara; compact; light drab. Near Osgood, Ripley County. Quarry of Ash- 

man & Glasgow. Tenth Census, 1880. 25596. 

Siliceous limestone. Sub-Carboniferous; compact; drab. Near Putnamviile, Put- 
nam County. James Lee's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25880. 

Dolomite. Upper Silurian; compact; brown. Decatur, Adams County. B.P.Rice's 
quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5619. 

Ujiper Silurian; compact: drab. Bluft'ton, Wells County. Quarry of Knapp 

& Gardner. Tenth Census, 1880. 25620. 

Niagara; compact; yellowish. Wabash, Wabash County. Quarry of Moelling 

& Paul. Tenth Census, 1880. 25602. 

Niagara; compact; light drab. Near Logansport, Cass County. A. Gleit/.'s 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27080. 

Niagara; compact; drab. Marion, Grant County. S. Faukboner's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 27002. 

■ Niagara; compact ; light drab. Montpelier, Blackford County. W. Twiliell's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25621. 

Niagara; compact; dark mottled. Eaton, Delaware County. G. W. Carter's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25634. 

Niagara; compact; drab. Anderson, Madison County. W. Crim's ((uarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26988. 

Niagara; compact; drab. Near Laurel, Franklin County. M. E. Secrest's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25470. 
Niagara; compact; light drab. Near Greensburgh, Decatur County. Greens- 
burgh Limestone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25541. 

Upper Silurian; compact; light colored. Greensburgh, Decatur County. 

Centennial, 1876. 25037. 

Niagara; compact; light colored. Saint Paul, Decatur County. J. L. Scau- 

lan's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25540. 

Niagara; compact; light colored. Near New Point, Decatur County. New 

Point quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25557. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 537 

Ferruginous dolomite. Niagara; compact; yellow and mottled. Two specimeus. 

Longwood, Fayette County. W. Ball's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. '25448. 
Sandstone. Sub-Carboniferous; fine; very light colored. Paoli, Orange County. 

Centennial, 1876. 25035. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; very light colored. French Lick Township, Orange 

County. T. W. Braxton's quarry. Tenth Census. 2G-2()ti. 

Snb-Carboniferous; very light gray; line and compact. Used fur oils-tones. 

French Lick Township, Orango County. Quarry of T. W. Braxton &. Sons. 
Tenth Census. '2(1044. 

Sub-Carboniferous; very light gray; compact: finely laminated. Fremli Lick 

Township, Orange County. VV. F. 0.sboru's quarry. Tenth Ceiisus. 2G0,">G. 

Carboniferous; fine ; very light colored. Will iamsport, Warren County. B. F. 

Gregory's estate. Tenth Census. 25591. 

- Carboniferous; gray; medium. Attica, Fountain County. S. Bernhart's 

<iuarry. Tenth Census. '25597. 

Carboniferous; fine; light reddish brown. Near Cannelion, Terry County. A. 

ITalhibach's quarry. Tentli Census. 2t)2U8. 

INDIAN TERRITORY. 

Limestone. Nearly white; crystalliue. Portion of memorial stone in Washington 
Monument. Cherokee Nation. Dennis O'Leary, 1885. 37(>28. 



Gypsum. Coarse; gray. Fort Dodge, Webster County. Quarries of Cardifi' Plaster 
Mills Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26804. 

Magnesian limestone [marble]. Devonian; compact; non-crystalline; argillace- 
ous; with many fossil shells and large corals ; prevailing colors drab, gray, and 
brownish. Three specimens. One largo slab 2 by 4 feet by 1^ inches thick; one 
small slab 6 inches square by .V inch thick and one 4-inch cube. Charles City, 
Floyd County. Charles City Marble Company. J. S. Trigg, 188(). 384G5. 

Dolomite. LowerSilurian ; porous; light colored. Lansing, AllamakeeCounty. .T. 
Nelson's (piarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26217. 

Lower Silurian; coarse; vesicular. Lansing, Allaniiikee County, llaney's 

quarry. K. llufschmidt, 1881. 2G!:;82. 

Lower Silurian; fine; light colored. South Lansing, Allamakee County. J. 

Nelson's quarry. R. Hufschmidt, 1881. 266811. 

LowerSilurian; compact ; brown. Dubuque, Du))uqn{> County. W. Rebman's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25894. 

LowerSilurian; coarse; buff. Dnbuqmi, DnbiKine County, F. W^. Kringle's 

quarry. T(nith Census, 1880. 25868. 

LowerSilurian; compact; butl". Dubuque, Dubutpie (Jonnty. Quarry of Speer 

ami Lee. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5870. 

Upper Silurian ; drab ; mottled. Near Manchester, Delaware Count}'. Quarry 

of C. A. &S. A. Davis. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5S<)9. 

Upper Silurian ; fine; light colored. Near Farley, Dubnque County. Quarry 

of C. E. De Rome & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 25897. 

Upper Silurian; fine; light colored. Two specimens. Near Farley, Dubuque 

County. B. N. Arquitto's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. '2.5898. 
Upper Silurian; fine; bufT. Near Monticello, Jones County. J. .S. Fuller's 
quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25895. 



538 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Dolomite. Devonian; fine; light buff and drab; coarsely fossiliferous. Two speci- 
mens. Near Osage Station, Mitchell County. Armstrong's qnarry. Tenth Cen- 
sus, 1880. 2G122. 

Devonian; dark; compact. Near Mason City, Cerro Gordo County. J. L. 

Parker's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26065. 
— ! — Devonian; fine; buff and coarse drab. Two specimens. Near Bristow, P>utler 
County. E. Erick's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26088. 

Devonian; fine; compact. Cedar Ealls, Black Hawk County. E, Carpenter's 

quarry. Tentli Census, 1880. 25900. 

Devonian ; fine ; yellowish brown. Two specimens. Near Laporte City, 

Black Hawk County. G. A. Knowles's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26764. 

Sub-Carboniferous; compact; drab. Near Dakotah Station, Humboldt County. 

Quarry of Miner &. Howell. Tenth Census, 1880. 26067, 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; compact. Humboldt, Humboldt County. A. B. Sny- 

der's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26062. 

Sub-Carboniferous : compact, with red blotches. Humboldt, Humboldt County. 

C. A. Labeer".s quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2606:>. 

Sub-Carboniferous; light brown.. Near Iowa Ealls, Hardin County. G. W. 

Chapman's quarry. Tenth Census, 18S0. 25986. 

Sub-Carboniferous; compact; brown. Near Iowa Ealls, Hardin County. L. 

L. Kelly's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26705. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; buff. Quarry, Marshall County. Le Grand Quarry 

Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25479. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light brown. Near Ames, Story County. P. K. 

Craig's qnarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25498. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; drab. Near Ames Station, Story County. E. Coe's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.^-466. 

Sub-Carboniferous; light gray; quartz-bearing. Keokuk, Leo County. P. 

Tigue's quarrj*. Tenth Census, 1880. 25369. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; finely vesicular. Near Eranklln, Lee County. C. Graner's 

quarry. Teqth Census, 1880. 25368. 

Niagara; drab; mottled. Delhi, Delaware County. F. B. Doolif tie's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25701. 

Siliceous dolomite. Lower Silurian; coarse; variegated. Lansing. Allamakee 
County. City of Lansing Quarries. Tenth Census, 1880. 26803. 

Upper Silurian; buff; porous. Near Postville, Allamakee County. E. H. 

William's quarry. Tenth Census. 1880. 26215. 

Devonian ; compact. Near Waterloo, Black Hawk County. W. Lane's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25933. 

Niagara ; buff; dendritic. Near Delhi, Delaware County. .1. IT. Peter's qu.irry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25702. 

Ferrviginotis dolomite. Upper Silurian; coarse and fine; buff. Two specimens. 
Near Sabula, .Jackson County. E. A. Wood's quarry. Tentli Census, 1880. 2.5865. 

Upper Silurian; buff. Near Maquoketa, Jackson County. A. Connel's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25830. 

Upper Silurian ; coarse ; yellow. Clinton, Scott County. T. Purcell's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880, 2.5829. 

Upper Silurian; fine; light buff. Ncir Le Claire, Scott County. E. Thele- 

raann's quarr,y. Tenth Census, 1880. 25826. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 539 

Ferruginous dolomite. U^tpca- Siliuiiin; coarae, yellow ; ;iiid lino, light bnU". Two 
specimens. Near Dixon St;ifi;>u, Clinton County. J. D. lliufoni's quarry. 
Tenth Census, ISriO. 2582S. 

Bituminous dolomite. Tppcr Silurian ; compact; very light colored. Stone City, 
Jones County. II. Dearhorn's ([uarry. Tenth CensTi.s, 1880. 2r)L)0l. 

Upper Silurian; compact; very light colored. Two specimens. Stone City, 

Jones County. Quarry of James & Ilowen. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.'>i)0,>. 

Upper Silurian ; compact; very light colored. Stone City, Jones County. .1. 

A. Green's quarry. Tenth CUuisus, l.'-SO. 'J.^'JIU. 

Upper Siliuian ; line; light colored. Near Anamosa, Jmies County. (i)uarry 

of Iowa State Penitentiary. Tenth Census, 1880. L'.");)(>.">. 

Upper Silurian ; fine; light bull". Near (^lin, Jones County. A. Knmmcl's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 'JfxTO.j. 

Upper Silurian; coarse; jiorous. Hale, Jones County. O. Ilor(oi\'s iniarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. x;r.70;'.. 

Upper Silurian ; iin(^; very light hnfi". Near Blount Vernon, JoiniNon fJonnty. 

.1. 1*. McCuuc's quarry. Tenth Census, 1S80. yrifiT:*. 

Upper Silurian ; hull'; ])orous. Near Dixon Station, Cliuf-on County. .1. D, 

Binford's quarry. Truth Census, I8t!0. '.H'dV.'. 
Upper Silurian; fine; light hull'. Le Claire, Scott Counly. .1. Gamble's (juarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2.^8-27. 
CalcareoiT.s dolomite. Sub-Carbonilerous ; fine; light colored, (^>uarry, Marshall 
County. Le firand Quarry Company. Tenth Census, INSO. 2.')4T8. 

Devonian; drab: compact; crinoidal. Itulfalo, Scott County. C. ]\b't7,ger's 

• [uarry. Tenth Census, 18rt0. 'jr)711. 

(Carbon i f(>rou s ; light colored ; fossiliferous. Near Wiulerset, Mailison County. 

Qiuirry of W. II. Lewis. Tcnfli Census, ISSi). 27100. 
Bituminous limestone and dolomite. Devonian; line; drab. Two siiecimcns. 

Near Garrison, Benton (bounty. Quarry of KoUlirick A: Fra/.er. 'I'euth Census, 

1880. 2.')9.")1. 
Bituminous limestone. Devonian; tnui; liglit colored. Ni'ar ^■in(on, P.euton 

County. Quarry of S. Ainigst. Tcidh Census, isso. 2.'>li.'')(>. 

Sub-Carboniferous; light colored; oolitic. Near l>urhain Stalioit, JJariou 

County. C. C. (^illins's (juarry. Tt^ntli Census, 1.S80. 20214. 
Magnesian limestone. liower Silnriati ; <lrab; dark nu)ttle(l. Dccorah, Vs'iinie- 

sliick County. T. Dwyer's (piarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 201:'.;!. 

Sub-Carboniferous; oolitic; light eolore<l. Near Le Grand, Taiua Counly. Le 

Grand Quarry Company. Tenth Census, 1S80. 2.")477. 

Carboniferous; compact; drab. Fort Doilge, Webster County. .1. Linebon's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.''«i»87. 

Devonian; drab. Near Charh^s City, I'loyd County. J. S. Trigg's (piarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 20;!1)0. 

Devonian ; dark ; compact. Near ilasou City, Ccrro (Jordo (Counly. (,>uairy 

of A. T. Lien &. Bro. Tenth Censu.s, 18S0. 20000. 

Comi)act; light colored. Two specimens. Waverly, Bremer Counly. C. U. 

Dean's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(i07(). 
Limestone. Devonian; line; lightcolored. Near Mason City, Cerro Gordo County. 
(,)uarry of Foyfier & Son. Tenth Census, 1880. 20004. 

Devonian; fine and coarse. Two specimens. Near Marble Rock, Floyd County. 

Quarry of Boone & Bros. Tenth Census, 1880. 201592. 



540 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Limestone. Devouiaii ; buff; fossiliferoiis. Two specimens. Near Imlepentlenoe, 

Buclianau County. J. Forrester's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25932. 
Devonian ; brown ; cellular. Iowa City, Johnson County. L. O. Hoffman's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25409. 
Devonian; light colored; finely fossiliferous. Near Iowa City, Johnson County. 

D. A. Schaeffer's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25410. 
Devouian ; drab. Two specimens. Davenport, Scott County. W. L. Cook's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25866. 
Devonian ; coarsely fossiliferous. Near Davenport, Scott Couiity. Ileinrich 

Schmiedt's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25867. 
Devonian; fine; drab. Davenport, Scott County. A. C. Fulton's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26216. 

Upper Silurian ; fine; light colored. Two specimens. Near Tipton, Cedar 

County. Quarry of Shearer &, Gray. Tenth Census, 1880. 25.575. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; coarse brown and fine, light colored. Two specimens. 

Near Iowa Falls, Hardin County. L. L. Kelly's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 
26684. 

feub-Carbouiferous ; light colored; oolitic. Conrad, Grundy County. W. T. 

Creceline's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26o91. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; oolitic ; light colored and reddisli. Two specimens. Near 

Montour, Tama County. Quarry of Ruggles & Stevens. Tenth Census, 

1880. 25476. 
Sub-Carboniferous ; finely fossiliferous. Quarry, Marshall County. Le Grand 

Quarry Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25480. 
Sub-Carboniferous ; buff" and light gray ; semi-crystalline. Two specimens. 

Near Washington, Washington County. Quarry of Minnick & Donovan. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5623. 

Sub-Carboniferous; compact; light colored. Near Sigourney Station, Keokuk 

County. William S. Booten's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25624. 
Sub-Carboniferous; compact; light colored. Sigoui'uey, Keokuk County. R. 

Pilkington's quai'ry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25625. 
Sub-Carboniferous ; light colored and drab. Two specimens. Near Givin, 

Mahaska County. F. Castle's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25648. 
Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light colored. Near Pella, Marion County. F. C. 

Mathe's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25896. 

Sub-Carboniferous; compact; drab. Near Ottnmwa, Wapello County. T>. W. 

Jeftries's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880, 25443. 

Sub-Carboniferous; compact; drab; oolitic. Near Ottnmwa, Wapello County. 

J. Kelly's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25445. 

Sub-Carboniferous; light drab; oolitic and drab; fossil-bearing. Two speci- 

mens. Dudley Station, Wapello County. Quarry of Beckwith & Winters. 
Tenth Census, 1880. 25411. 

- Sub-Carboniferous; gray; micaceous. Two siiecimens. Near Fairfield, Jett'er- 

sou County. S. Stieber's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25622. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; drab. Near Mount Pleasant, Henry County. P. 

O'Connor's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25339. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; very light gray and drab. Two specimens. Near 

Mount Pleasant, Henry County. J. Rukgaber's quarry. Tenth Census, 
1880. 25340. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light colored. Burlington, Des Moines County, 

"Star" quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26493. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 541 

Limestone Sub-Caiboiiifeiou.s; light colored; semi-crystalliuo. Two specimens. 
Burliugton, Des Moines Couuty. Tenth Census, 1880. 253->l>. 

Snb-Carbouifeions; light colored; oolitic. Burlington, Dcs Moines County. 

South Hill quarries. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G490. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; coarse ; buff. Burlington, Des Moines County. South 

Hill quarries. Tenth Census, 1880. 26491. 

Sub-Carboniferous; Hue; compact. Near Franklin, Lee County. C. Granor's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 18S0. 25368. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; light colored and gray. Two specimens. Bentensport, 

Van Buren County. G. W. Jack's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25442. 

Sub-Carboniferous; tine; drab. Two specimens. Near Keosauqua, Van 

Buren County. J. Creasy's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26218. 

Carboniferous; fine; fossil-bearing. Two specimens. Stennett, Montgomery 

County. W. Steuuett's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25413. 

Carboniferous; coarse; light bull". Bedford, Taylor County. H. W. Greenlee's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25803. 

Carboniferous; light drab; fossiliferous. Bedford, Taylor County. Quarry of 

XL W. Green & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 26802. 

Carboniferous; light colored; finely fossiliferous. Near Earlham, Madisou 

County. Quarry of Laird & Royce. Tenth Census, 1880. 25461. 

Carboniferous; light colored and drab; fossiliferous. Two specimeus. Near 

Tracy Station, Marion County. Quarry of Regan Bros. & McGorrieh. Tenth 
Census, 1880. 25464. 

Carboniferous; light colored; finely fossiliferous. Near Wiuterset, Madison 

County. Quarry of IT. W. Lewis. Tenth Census, 1880. 25475. 

Carboniferous; light colored; fossil-bearing. Near Wiuterset, Madison County. 

G. W. Iletyler's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27184. 

Carboniferous; compact; dral). Near Earlham, Madison County. Quarry of 

Robertson «fc Willoughby. Tetith Census, 1880. 25462. 

Carboniferous; light colored; fossiliferous. Near Earlham, Madison County. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25463. 

Carboniferous; light and darlc drab. Two specimens. Near Macedonia, Potta- 

wattamie County. S. Dye's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25446. 
Siliceous limestone. Devonian ; dark mottled. Iowa City, Johnson County. E. 

Crowley's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25408. 
Sub-Carlioniferous; gray; porous. Near Knox ville, Marion County. Garrison 

(juarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25675. 

Carboniferous; light colored; fossiliferous. Near Corning, Adams County. 

Quarry of Law & Oak. Tenth Census, 1880, 25412. 
Sandstone. Carboniferous; coarse; dark brown. Near Muscatine, Muscatine 
County. A. M. Hare's quarry. Tenth Census. 25593. 

Fine; very light colored. Davenport, Scott County. Goettsch's quarry. 

TcMitli Census. 2.")745. 

Ferniginous sandstone. Cretaceous; coarse; dark brown. Lewis, Cass County. 
J. Woodward's quarry. Tenth Census. 25447. 

KANSAS. 

Limestone. Permian; light colored; porous; fossiliferous! Marysville, Marshall 
County. Quarry of Erl & Patterson. Tenth Census, 1880. 25419. 

Permian; coarse; xjorous; light colored. Two specimens. Blue Rapids, Mar- 

shall County. Blue Rapids quarry. Tentli Census, 1880. 25438. 



542 KEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Limestone. Peraii;in; coarsely jtoroiis; fiisuliiia; light colored. Near Frankfort^ 
Marshall Coimty. Joseph Wilson's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25397. 

Permian ; light colored ; fusulina. Boattio, Marshall County. Tenth Census, 

1880. 25420. 
Permian; compact; coarsely porous, with many fossil fusulina. Two speci- 
mens. Bigelow, Marshall County. H. F. Gallagher's ({uarry. Tenth Cen- 
sus, 1880. 2543/. 

Permian; light colored; compact; finely fossilit'erous. Near Manhattan, liilcy 

County. Quarry of Ulrich Brothers. Tenth Census, 1880. 26-502. 

Permian; coarse; porous; fusulina. Near Manhattan, Riley County. Quarry 

of Ulrich Brothers. Tenth Census, 1880. 26503. 
Permian; light colored; lino; cellular. Near Uunlap, Morris County. Quarry 

of Wolll", Pickens vt Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G091. 
Permian; light colored; compact; finely fossiliferous. Near Cottonwood Sta- 
tion, Chase County. QuarryofL. W. Lewis. Tenth Census, 1880. 260'J0. 
Permian; light colored ; compact; fusulina. Near Cottonwood Station, Chase 

County. Quarry of Lautry »&, Burr. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G0D8. 
Permian; light colored; fossiliferons; cellular. Near Douglass, Butler County. 

Tenth Census, ISSO. 2()364. 
I'ermian ; light colored; soft; porous; fossiliferons. Near Doughiss, Butler 

County. W. Dickensheot's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26365. 
Permian; drab; fine and compact. Two specimens. Near Kock Township, 

Butler County. Smith's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26363. 
Permian ; fine ; light colored ; fossiliferons. Near El Dorado, Butler County. 

Polwin's ((uarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26356. 
Permian; light colored; fnio and compact. Near El Dorado, Butler County. 

Poor Farm (inarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26357. 
Permian (?); light colored; ])orous. Near El Dorado, Butler County. Van 

Dorner's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26361. 
Permian; light colored ; compact and coarsely porous. Two specimens. Near 

El Dorado, Butler County. Sharper's (piarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26362. 
Permian; light colored ; soft; porous ; fossiliferons. Near Augusta, Butler 

County. J. C. Haines's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26130. 
Permian; light colored; soft; porous; fossiliferons. Near Augusta, Butler 

Countiy. Barker's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26367. 
Permian; light colored; soft; porous; fossiliferons. Near Augusta, Butler 

County. Ward's quarry. Tenth Census, 1^80. 26368. 
Permian; light colored; fusulina. Near Augusta, Butler County. Aldrich's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26369. 
Permian; finegrained; light colored. Near Winfudd, Cowley County. Quarry 

of Hodges, Moore & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(3577. 

Permian; gray; fusulina. Near Greuola, Elk County. Railroad (juarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26574. 

Cretaceous; white; chalky; used in the manufacture of whiting. Kirwin, 

Phillips County. Kirwin quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25455. 

White; chalky; used in the mauufactnro of whiting. Wa Keeney, Trego 

County. Railroad quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26499. 

White; chalky. On Smoky River, Trego County. Tenth Census, 1880. 26500. 

Light; lino and porous. Bull's City, Osborne County. Tenth Census, 1880. 

25474. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 543 

Limestone. Lij^lit colored; soft aud earthy. Juuctiou City, D;xvi.s County. Ceu- 
teuuiul, 187G. t*5U:.S. 

Dark; coarse; fosHilil'enms. Oswej^o, Labette Coiuity. Hoy's (jnarry. Tcutli 

Census, 1880. '2r)7i)0. 

Fine; light butr. Beloit, MitciicU Coimty. Tenth Census, l»Sl). 2:An. 

liulT; coarsely porous. Near Greeley, Audcrsoii County. Greeley (juarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. -JGOUD. 
Light colored; porous; fossiiiferous. Near Armstrong, Wyand )tto County. 

T. F. Sullivan's quarry. Teiitli Censr.s, 1880. 253'JG. 
Burt"; lino and compact. Near Wilson, Ellsworth County. Railroad ijuarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2(;i8L 

Fine; light bull". Near El Dorado, Butler County. Tenth Census, 1880. 

2ti:r)S. 

Carboniferous; dark; compact; linely fossiliferous. Near Atchison, Atchison 

County. Quarry of Reddinglon & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 25375. 

Carboniferous; light colored; liueJy fossiliferous. Two specimens. Near 

Lane, Franklin County. Quarry of Ilanway Bro'thers. Tenth Census, 1880. 

•257 OG. 
Limestone [marble.] Drab, dark spotted ; very compact and close grained. 4^ by 
2] by 1 inches. Leavenworth, Leavenworth County. United States General 
Laud Oflice, 1882. 27282. 

Dark brown, nearly black, with white fossils. 'A^ by 15^ by 1 inches. Bourbon 

County. United States General Land Otlice, 183;{. 27283. 

Magnesian limestone. Carboniferous; dark; fossiliferous. Fort Scott, Bourbon 
County. W. Jj. Wilkinson's (juarry. 'J'entii Census, 1880. 25G80. 

Bnlf ; fine and compact. Leavenworth, Leavenworth County. Tenth Cen- 
sus, ISSO. 254G0. 

rcrniian ; light colored; tinely fossiliferous. Near Cottonwood Station, Chase 

County. Quarry of Tweeddahs ifc Barker. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G0i)7. 

Bermian ; light colonel ; tinely fossiliferous. Florence, Marion County. A. F. 

Horner's quarry. Tenth Census, 18-^0. 2i)UL);>. 
Dolomite. Coarse; porous; fossiliferous. Near Salina, Saline County. Tenth Cen- 
sus, 1880. 2G501. 

Permian; fine grained; light colored. Near Marion Centre, Marion County. 

Quarry of Groat & Bros. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G092. 

Permian; fine; light buff. Near Marion Centre, Marion C(ninty. Orner Gee's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G()1.)1. 

Permian; light colored; fine grained. Niiar Marysville, Marshall County. 

White's (juarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25418. 

Carboniferous; conii)act; fossiliferous. Two s[»ecimens.. Near TojKska, Shaw- 
nee County. Quarry of Mulvane i^- lligginbotham. Tenth Census, 1880. 
2G.572. 

Siliceous dolomite. Permian; lin(! ; light colored; [lorous. Richland Township, 
Butler County. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(i;!()(). 

Bituminous dolomite. I'ermian; lin(!; light coloi'ed. Near Winlield, ('owley 
County. C. Schmidt's (juarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G573. 

Sandstone. Carboniferous; fine; gray. Near Fort Scott, Bourbon (Jounty. Quarry 
ofGilfillan Bros. 2.5G81. 

Fine; brown. Near Oswego, Labette County. Bail(!y's(juarry. TeuthCeusus. 

25791. 



544 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Saudstoiie. Fine; light colored. Near Parsous, Neosbo County. Quarry of Jones 
& Hayes. Tenth Census. 25792. 

Fine; gray. Near Parsous, Neosho County. Emory's quarry. Tenth Census. 

25793. 

Fine; light bull". Near Chanute, Neosho County. " Railroad" cjuarry. Tenth 

Census. 26580. 

Carboniferous; dark gray ; medium. Near Pawnee, Crawford County. Pawnee, 

Flagstone Conn j\ Tenth Census. Two specimens. 25794. 

Fine; light buff. Neodesha, Wilson County. " Neodesha " quarry. Tenth 

Census. 26575. 

Darivbulf; tnedium. Luiied, Pawnee County. N. J. Krusen's quarry. Tenth 

Census. 26576. 

KfclNTt'CKY. 

Limestone. Lightdrab; huely fossiliferous ; compact, Louisville, Jeli'erson County. 
City of Louisville quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26311. 

Drab; line and compact. Anchorage, Jeflerson County. Quarry of Reilly 

Bros. J. S. F. Batchen, 1883. 28108. 
Drab; compact and somewhat oolitic. Near Franklin, Simpson County. Paris 

quarry. J. R. Procter, 1884. 36888. 
Di'ab; line and compact. Pilot Knob, Simpson County. J. R. Procter, 1884. 

36S97. 

Drab; compact. Near Frankfort, Franklin County. Mrs. Pettis's qnarr}^ 

J. R.Procter, 1884, 36908. 
Drab; fmely fossiliferous. Greonsburgh, Green County. Garrard Lyle's quarry. 

J. R. Procter, 1884. 36902. 
Dark drab; compact. Russellville, Logan County. J. R. Procter, 1884. 3G915. 

Dark drab; fine and compact. Simi^son County. J. R. Procter, 1884. 36893. 

Light colored; linely fossiliferous; cellular. Near Bowling Green, Warren 

County. Belknap & Dumesnil Stone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26285. 

Light colored; oolitic. Princeton, Caldwell County. S. McEIfatriek's quarrj'. 

J. R. Procter, 1884. 36946. 

Light colored ; fossiliferous. Bloomlield, Nelson County. J. R. Procter, 1884, 

36916. 

Light colored ; oolitic, with fossils. Russellville, Logan County. Quarry of 

Burgher & Ryan. J. R. Procter, 1884. 36949. 

Light colored ; very fine and compact. Near Franklin, Simpson County. J. R. 

Procter, 1884. 36889. 

Light colored ; semi-crystalline. Near Frankfort, Franklin County. Major 

Williams's quarry, J. R. Procter, 1884. 36911. 

Light colored; finely fossiliferous. Near Frankfort, Franklin County. Mr. 

Quire's quarry. J. R, Procter, 1884. 36912. 

Light colored ; coarsely fossiliferous. About 5 by 4 by 11 inches. Near Bed- 

ford, Trimble County. S. Barnes's farm. J. R. Procter, 1884, 36969. 
Light gray; finely fossiliferous ; compact. Near Frankfort, Franklin County. 

Butterman's quarry. ,T. R. Procter, 1884. 36913. 
Light colored ; oolitic. Near Trenton, Todd County. J. R. Procter, 1884. 36948. 

Dark; compact. Livingstone, Rockcastle County. Rockcastle quarry. J. R, 

Procter, 1884, 3692L 
Fine; light gray. Lincoln County. J. R. Procter, 1834. 36931. 



BUILDING AND OKNAMENTAL .STONP:S. 545 

Limestone. Sub-C-aibniiifcrous; light colored ; oolitic. I'riuceton, Culdwell County. 
J. R. rrocter, ld84. IJlilMd. 

Sub-Carbon ilerous; line; drab. Princeton, Caldwell County. J. If. Procter, 

lt?84. 30941. 

Sub-Carboniferous; light colored ; oolitic. Near Princeton, Caldwell County. 

Garrett's quarry. J. K. Procter, 1884. 3094:J. 
Gray; fiemi-cryatalline ; fos>siliferoas. Princeton, Caldwell County. S. McEl- 

fatrick's(luarry. J. K. Procter, 1684. 36944. 
Sub-Carboniferous; verj' light drab ; oolitic. Piineelon, Caldwell County. 

S. McElfatnck's (juarry. J. R. Procter, 1884. :5t)94.'->. 
Corniferous ; line ; dark gray. Stewart's Mill, Clark County. J. R. Procter, 

1884. 3G'J0U. 

Corniferous; drab; compact. Lebanon, Jlarion County, .i. K. Procter, 1884. 

3(1910. 
Lower Silurian ; dark gray; coarscdy fossiliferous. Bloomlield, Nelson Couut3\ 

J. K. Procter, 1884. 3(1914. 
Sub-Carboniferous; drab; tine and compact. Dennis, Logau County. J. R. 

Procter, l884. 3H918. 
Sub-Carboniferous; light co]or(Hl; oolitic. Pilot Knob, Simpson County. J. 

R. Proct<"r, 1884. 36887. 
Very light brown; line and compact. Simpson County. J. R. Procter, 1884. 

3(1892. 
Sub-Carboniferous; light colored; oolitic. Near Garrett, Meade County. J. 

R. Procter, 1884. 3(^)9(10. 

Sub-Carboniferous: dark mottled; semi-crystalline. Grahampton, Meade 

County. 3(1901. 

Sub-Carboniferous; dark gray; finely fossiliferous; compact. Gn^en County.' 

J. R. Procter, 1884. 3090;;. 

Fine; drab; compact. Pineville, Bell County. J. R. Procter, 1884. 30924. 

Dark mottled ; semi-crystalline; compact. Neicr Ijitehtield, Grayson County. 

J. Cubbage's quarry. J. R. Procter, 1884. 3(1954. 

Sub-Carboniferous; light colored; oolitic. Near Litchfield, Grayson County. 

.loe Butler's quarry. J. R. Procter, 1884. 36955. 

Dark gray ; semi-crystalline. Litchlield, Grayson County. J. R. Procter, 1884. 

3(59.")7. 

Lower Saliirian; gray; coarsely fossiliferous. Taylorsville, Sjipucer County. 

J. R. Procter, 1884. 36909. 

Sub-Carboniferous; light colored; oolitic. ITopkinsville, Christian County. 

J. R. Procter, 1884. 30)900. 

Gray; coarsely fossiliferous. Springfield, Washington County. .I.R.Procter, 

1884. 36934. 
Magne.siaii limestone, ('oarse; dark mottled. Lulbegrude (Jreek. Clark County. 
.). U. I'rocter, 1884. 30907. 

Upper Silurian ; yelloiAish; compact. Nelson County'. J. R. Procter, 1884. 

30904. 

Upper Silurian; fine; light gray. Near Lagrange, Oldham County. Anita 

Springs (luairy. J. R. Procter, 1884. 30932. 
Bitiinajnoiis limestone. Dark; compact; fossiliferous. Lebanon, Marion County. 
J, K. Procter, 1884. .369H>. 

: Dark drab; fine .and compact. ,S))i;|>,son County, J, R. Procter, 1884. 36895. 

' " n. Mis. 170, pt. L'— ;;.i^ 



54b REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Bituminous limestone. Dark; compact. Piucville, Bell County. J. E. Procter^ 

18S4. -.nmo. 

Dolomite. Upper Silurian: drab; compact. Bard^town, Nelson County. J. R. 

Procter, 1884. 3()917. 
-; — Coruiferon.s; drab, mottled ; semi-crystalline. Lincoln County. Lincoln Sand 

Company. J. R. Procter, 18S4. 3(J930. 
Sandstone. Fine; liglit colored. Pilot Knob, Simpson County. J. R. Procter. 

36891. 

Fine; light yellowisb. Pilot Knob, Simpson County. J. R.Procter. 3G898 

Calcareous; tine; very light <^ray. Taylor County. Land of George Leo. J. R. 

Procter, 1884. 36899. 

Fine ; very light gray. Livingstone, Rockcastle County. .J. R. Procter. 30920. 

Fine; light gray, with dark stains. Near Pineville, Bell County. Laud of A, 

J. Arker. J. R. Procter. 3692.^). 

Fine; light blue-gray. Near Pineville, Bell County. Land of R. JL Moss. J. 

R. Procter. 36926. 

Fine; light colored. Near Pineville, Bell County. Laud of R. M. Moss. J. 

R. Procter. 36927. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; very light gray. Blue Lick Mountain, Madison 

County. Land of William Adams. J. R. Procter. 36928. 

Carboniferous; very light brown ; medium. Johnson County. J.R.Procter. 

36936. 

Carboniferous; very light brown ; medium. Johnson County. J. R. Procter. 

36937. 

Fine ; light pinkish. Kirkniansville, Todd County. Quarry of R. F. Boss. 

J. R. Procter. 36942. 
- — Fine; very light blue-gray. Whitley County. J.R.Procter. 36950. 

Fine ; light colored. Whitley County. J. R. Procter. 36951. 

— ~ Fine; light pinkiish. Crayson Springs, Grayson County. J.R.Procter. 36952. 

Fine ; liglit colored. Grayson Springs, Grayson County. J. R. Procter. 36953. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; nearly white. Near Marion, Crittenden County. J_ 

R. Procter.' 36958. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; buff. Near Cloverport, Breckinridge County. J. R. 

Procter. 36964. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; fine ; light brown. Near Cloverport, Breckinridge County. 

J. R. Procter. 36966. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light colored. Near Cloverport, Breckinridge County, 

J. R. Procter. 36967, 

LOUISIANA. 

Sandstone. Fine ; light colored. 37579. 

Quartzite. Dark drab and white, mottled ; very fine and compact. Two specimens. 
37602. 



Serpentine. Comi)act; dark green, nearly black; takes but a dull polish. Deer 

Isle, Hancock County. George H. Holden, 1884. 36019. 
Biotite granite. Coarse; gray. Biddefoi'd, York County. C. II. Bragdou's 

quarry. Tenth Ccnsns, 1880. 26297. 
Coarse; gray. Bid<leford,yovk County. J. M. Andrew's quarry. Tenth Cen- 
sus, 1880. 26316. 



I5U1LL)1N(J AND UKNAMENTxVL STONE.S. 547 

Biotite granite. Coui^e ; ii'iiiy. Ijidddord, York County, (^>u;l^l■y oi" C. 11. & A. 
Goodwill. Tfutli Census, ISSO. 2(il{17. 

Urttkencoliunn ; pink. T.j by 11 inches. Near Kcd Bt'ach, Wiisbington County. 

Maine Red Cranite Coui[);iny. Tenth Census, 188U. 2('>7{j^). 

Coarse; pink; used for oinaniental work and niounnients. Near Red Beach, 

Washington County. Maine Red Grauito Company. Tenth Census, 1«80. 
■J5r)84. 

Coarse; pink; used as above. Jonesborough, Washington County. Bodwcll 

Granite Company. Tenth Censu.s, ISdO. 'J.j872. 

Coarse; piid< ; used very hirgeiy for monumental work. Jonesborough, ^\'a.sh- 

ington ('..unty. Colonel Clark. 2i3002. 

Medium^; gr;iy. T\vosi)eciniens. G-inchcube. ^Valdo County. Tenth Census. 

1H80. 2'M-^'J. 

Coarse; gray; used for general )>uilding. Frankfort, Waldo C(Uinty. Mount 

Waldo Granite Works. Tenth Census, 1880. 270:5;'). 

Gray ; coarsely porphyritic. Frankfort, Waldo County. Mount Waldo Granite 

Works. Tenth Census, 1880. '270oG. 

Fine; gray. Swanvillo, Waldo County. Gak Hill Granite Company. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 2648r). 

Coarse; dark gray. Canaan, .Somerset County. 8. L. Fowler's (quarry. Teiitli 

Census, 1880. 2(i-i!)(5. 

Fine; dark gray. Round Pond, Lincoln County. C,>uarry of Brown, McAllis- 

ter & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 26242. 

Fine; dark gray. 6 by 6 by 4 inches. Round Pond, Lincoln County. Quarry 

of Brown, McAllister »Si: Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 2()'J74. 

Fine; gray. Vinal Haven, Knox County. J. S. Black's (|uarry. Tenth Cen- 

Bus, 1880. 26 1 05. 

Fine; gray. Vinal Haven, Knox County. Duscham Hill ([uarry. Bodwell 

Granite Company. Tenth Census, 1^80. 26166. 

Coarse; gray, slightly pinkish. \'inal Haven, Knox County. Harbor (luarry. 

Bodwell Granite Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 2615:5. 

The Viual Haven granites are used for all manner of building and monu- 
mental work. 

Coarse; gray. Hurricane Island, Knox County. D.Tilson's ipiarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 261>'0. 

Coarse; gray, slightly pinkish. 6-inch cube. Rockland, Knox County. 

George's River Granite Comjiany. 25067. 

Coarse; gray; n.sed in the construction of the United .States Treasury building 

at Washington. Dix Island, Knox County. Dix's Isl.ind Granite Com[)any. 
Tenth Census, 1880. 26182. 

Fine; dark gray. South Thomaston, Knox County. (Quarry of M. T. Jameson 

& Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(il81. 

Fine; granite. Vinal Haven, Knox County. East Boston (juarry. Bodwell 

Granite Company. Tenth Census, 18.S0. 26154. 

Fine; light gray. Saint George, Knox County. Long Cove Granite Comi)any. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26177. 

Coarse; gray. Near Saint (icorge, Knox County. Atlantic Granite Company. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 20178. 

Fine; dark gray. Near .Saint George, Knox County. Clark's Island Granite 

Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26212. 



548 REPOliT ON NATIONAL MU.SEUM, 1886. 

Biotite granite. Coarse; gniy. Spruce Head Islaud, KuoxCouuty. Bodwell Gran- 
ite Company. Toutli Census, 1880. 26179. 

Coarse; gray, slightly pinkish. Fox Island, Knox County. Harbor quarry. 

Colonel Clark. 25009. 

Fine ; dark gray. Fox Island, Knox County. East Boston quarry. Colonel 

Clark. 25020. 

Medium ; dark gray. Bryant's Pond, Oxford County. Grand Trunk Railway. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26269. 

Medium; gray. Bryant's Pond, Oxford County. J. S. F. Batchen, 188;5. 

28647. 

Coarse; gray. Bryant's Pond, Oxford County. Grand Trunk Railway. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26270. 
Coarse; gray. Near Wayne, Kennebec County. J. F. Gordon's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26507. 
Coarse ; light gray. Franklin, Hancock County. Quarry of Blaisdell Bros. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26C73. 
Medium ; gray pink spotted, yomesvillo, Mount Desert, Hancock County. C. 

J. Hall's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26124. 

Medium ; gray-pink spotted. Somesville, Hancock County. Quarry of Whit- 

ney & Allen. Tenth Census, 1880. 26125. 
Coarse; light pink. Souiesville, Mount Desert, Hancock County. C. J. 

Hall's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 261.52. . 
Coarse ; light pink. Near Somesville, Hancock County. C. J. Hall's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 27179. 
Coarse; gray. Deer Isle, Hancock County. Quarry of Goss & Goss. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26155. 
Coarse; gray. East Blue Hill, Hancock County. Chase & Hall's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26139. 
Gray; porphyritic. East Blue Hill, Hancock County. Collins Granite Com- 
pany. Tenth Census, 1880. 26146. 
Coarse; gray. East Blue Hill, Hancock County. G. W. Collins & Co. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 2613-1. 
Light gray; coarse]}^ porphyritic. Foot cube. East Blue Hill, Hancock 

County. Centennial, 1876 17470. 
Medium ; gray. West Sullivan, Hancock County. J. H. Stinson's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26049. 
Fine; light gray. Brunswick, Cnmberland County. H. Cripp's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26420. 

Fine; gray. Near Pownal, Cumberland County. T. Reed's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 27070. 
Biotite muscovite granite. Fine; very light gray. Waldoboroiigli, Lincoln 

County. Quarry of Day & Otis. Tenth Census, 1880. 2()326. 
Biotite gneiss. Medium; gray. Jefterson, Lincoln County. J. P. Giidden's 
(piarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26276. 

Medium; gray. Near Chestervillc, Franklin County. J. II. Plummer's(piarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26371. 

Medium; dark gray. Near Turner, Androscoggin County. C. H. Barrell's 

(juarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26508. 
Muscovite biotite gneiss. Fine light gray. Lincolnville, WdldQ County. 
Beach Grove Granite Company. Tenth Census, 1880, 26241, 



milLDING AND ORNAMENTAL 8T0NES. 549 

Muscovite biotite gneiss. Fine; gniy. Jcllcrsou, Lincoln County. J. P. CJlid- 
dt'n's (|ii;iriv. Ti'iit li Census, l.-SO. ;2()4S(). 

Muscovite biotite granite. Fine; very light gray. Near llHllowell, Kennebec 
County, llallowell Granili' Company. Tenth Census, 188l>. 2(i'.i'A^>. 

J'inci; veiy light gray. Near Hallovvell, Kenuebec County, llallowell (Jrauite 

Company. Tenth Census, IHSO. 2()3li(J. 
Fine; lijjhtgray. North Jay, Franklin County. Maine Central Railroad Com- 
pany. Tenth Census, ISHO. '2('):>rt.'). 
Hornblende biotite granite. Coarse ; gray. Lincoln, I'enobscot County. Jewell 
(iranitc ('ompaiiy. Tenth Census, LSSd. 27U84. 

Fine; very dark gray, nearly black. Saint George, Knox Ccunity. Long Covo 

(Jranitc^ Conii).iny. Tentii Census, ISSO. 'JC.lTli. 
Hornblende granite. Coarse; r(>d ; very tough and hard. Otter Creek, Hancock 

CiiiMily. (_>tter Creek quarry. 'J'enth Census, 18H0. 27178. 
Talcose schist. Fine; compact; dark gray. Kuights\'ille, Cumberland County. 

r. C. Manning, L88;5. 28117. 
Blceolite syenite.* Coarse; light gray, yellow spotted. Near Litchlleld, Kenne- 
bec County. Tenth Census, 18*0. 
Olivine diabase. Devonian (?) ; nicdinm ; dark gray, nearly black on a polished 
surlace: used lor monumental work. Addison Point, Washington County. Col. 
Edward Clark, ISsL 25022. 

Devonian ; medium ; dark gray, s^jotted black and white on a })olishe.d surface; 

known commercially as black granite, and is used largely for uuuiumental 
work. 8ix miles southeast of Addison Point, Washington County. Pleasant 
liiver Black Granite Comitany. Tenth Census, 1880. 2r)92.'). 
Diabase. Ii(!vonian ^ '!) ; medium ; <lark gray, s[)otted l)lack and white on a i)olished 
surface; kiu)wn connuer(nally as black granite, and is largely used for mon- 
umental work. Addison, Washington Couutj'. 11. B. Nash's (juarry. Tenth 
Census, lS,-d. 2tiU72. 

J''ine and compact; very dark gray, blaci-c on a polished surfaet^ ; used chielly 

for moninnental work. Vinal Haven, Kiuix County. Bod well Granite (Com- 
pany. Tenth Census, 1880. 2<;i(;7. 

Slate. P.iue-black. Monson, Piscata((Mis County. (^Miarries of Monson Pond Shite 
Company. Tenth Census, 1.S80. 2.^)().")L 

Bine-black. Browuville, Piscataquis County. (.Quarry of Adams II. Merrill. 

Tentli Census, 1880. 2r)ti.")2. 

Blue-black. Monson, Piscataquis County. C^uarries of Dirigo Slate Company. 

25819. 

MAKYI.ANl). 

Steatite [.soapstone]. Coarse; rust spotted. l?ethesda, i\I(uit,gomcry County. C. 
W. Lansdale. 2.j0iG. 

Fine and compact; dark blue-gray. On Liberty road, about 15 nnles from 

Baltimore. Quarries of Baltimon; and North Branch Soapstone Company. 
Tenth Census, 1880. 26028. 

Serpentine. Light and daik green, streak(Ml and mot tied ; line grained and com- 
pact; takes a high polish. Five spocinieus: oik; 12.^ by 4J by i inches, ])()lished 
on both sides; one 5 by 3^ by 1^ inches; and three 4 inch cubes. Dublin, Har- 
ford County. Quarries of Grceu Serpentine Marble Company. E. Mortimer 
Bye, 1881. 2G173. 



The ekeolite syenite is not used for l)uilding purposes, and is of doubtful utility. 



f)[)i} REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUxM, 18S6. 

Serpentine. Dark green; very fine .ind compact; takes a high polish. Deer Creek, 
Harford County. Deer Creek quarries. Tentii Census, 1881). 2t)8G8. 

Light and dark green, mottled; fine and compact; takes a high polish. G by 

by 3 inches. Broad Creek, Ilart'ord County. Centennial, isro. 17r)14. 

Compact; dark green ; takes a high polish, (i-inch cube. Broad Creek, Har- 
ford County. Centennial, 1876. 17.^)17. 

Dark green; lino and compact; takes only a dull polisli. Near Biiltimore. 

G. A. Leakin, 188;}. 27(582. 

Biotite gneiss. Coarse; gray. Port Deposit, Cecil County. C^narry of McClena- 
han & Bro. Tenth Census, 1880. 25:;r)'.». 

Light gray; iine and medium. Two specimens. Near Baltimore City, Balti- 
more County. J. Harris's (|inirry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2i^^)~6. 

Coarse; dark gray. Opposite Ellicott City, Baltimore County. C.J.Werner's 

(|ua,rry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25358. 

Fine; light and dark gray. Two specimens. Jones Falls road. Mount Royal, 

Baltimore County. J. Cnrley's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2GL»:iO. 
Biotite granite. Medium ; gray. Ne.ir Woodstock, Baltimore County. W. F. 
Weller's -puirry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5:5G1. 

Medium; gray. Near Woodstock, Baltimore County. Fox Rock (juarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 253G0. 

Coarse; gray. Granite, r.altimore County. Quarry of Gill & McMahon. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25403. 

Fine; gray. Gwynn's Falls, Baltimore County. Old Winan pstate. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 2(;hG7. 

Fine; light gray. Montrose, Montgomery Comity. H. P. Dwyer's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26947. 
Dolomite [marble]. Lower Silurian ; white; crystalline. Texas, Baltimore County. 
A block from the top stone of the Washington Monuuient. Barney Mooney, 1884. 
3G050. 
Lower Silurian ; white; crystalline. Cockeysville, l^altimore County. Beaver 

Dam Marble Company. Tenth Census. 27()()2. 
Lower Silurian ; white; crystalline. Cockeysville, ]?altimore County. Colonel 

Clark, 1881. 2520G. 
Lower Silurian ; white; crystalline. Cockeysville, Baltimore County. Tenlli 

Census, 1880. 25015. 
Lower Silurian; white; crystalline. Cockeysville, Baltimore County. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25003. 
Magnesian limestone [marble]. W'hite, with purple stripes; crystalline. New 

Windsor, Carroll County. AVilliam N. Chew's (|uarr.v. Tenth Census. 2Gi)31. 
Light blue-gray; crystalline. Near New AVindsor, Carroll County. A. A. 

Roop's (juarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2()807. 
Gray; laminated. Keedysville, Washington County. John Snear's (piarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26205. 
White; crystalline. Union Bridge, Frederick County. D. Rinehardt's(|uarry. 

Tenth Censu.s, 1880. 2G829. 

Union Bridge, Frederick County. D. IJinehardt's (juarry. Tenth Census, 1880- 

2G830. 
Conglomerate breccia [marble]. Triassic; red, variegated. Frederick County- 
Slab 20 by 30 by 1} inches. Used in the iuteri(H- decorations of the Capitol at 
Washington, D. C*. Col. Edward Clark, 1881. 28741. 



ISUILDINU AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 551 

Conglomerate bieccia [marble]. Triiissic; course; rod, vaiiogateJ. Noiir Freder- 
ick, Fiederi(d< t'ouuty. ( n'rtzeiidauiKu's qiiiirry. Tenth Ceusiis, 18St). 2()7'J7. 

Siliceous limestone. Fine l)l;iek. Liberty I'ike, Frederick County, llolco'n (jiiarry. 
'I'eutli Census, ISrtO. "jr);)!)*;. 

Magne.sian limestone. Lower Siimian ; line; dark. llageivstown, AV'ashini;ton 
('oMiily. T. O. Jones's ((uarry. Tenth Census, 1880. '2i'A)ol'i. 

Biotite epidote gneiss. Fine; liglit red. lichester, Howard County. Tentli Cen- 
,-u>i, 1880. 2(;8.5G. 

Hornblende gneiss. Fine; -very dark gray, nearly hlaclv. Ilchesler, llowanl 
Connty. Tentli Census, 1880. 2r)8."r.. 

Sandstone. Fine; liglit dral>. Seneca, Monlgomtu'y County. Tenth Census. 'jr)01:!. 

l'"ine; light, red; used for building t)ui'poses in Wasbington, J). C. Seneca, 

Montgomery County. Tenth Census. ;jr)01(). 

Nearly white; inediuni. Frederick County. J. L. Belt's (luarry. Tenth Cen- 

sus, 1880. 2'jlu8. 

Devonian ; coarse; yellow. Ciiinlierland, Allegany County. Shriver's quarry. 

Tenth Census. 26839. 

Devonian; coarse; yellow. Cuinbeilaiid, Allegany County. Green Street 

<|uarry. Tenth Census. 2(i840. 

Lower Silurian ; coarse; liglit colored. Cumberland, Allegany County. Will- 

iam J^ippoid's (iiiarry. 2t)S41. 
Slate. I51uc-l)!ack. Slab G^ inches s(iuare. Ilarlbrd County. Qnarri(\s of lI;ui'ord 

reach Bottom Slate Company. Tenth Census. 1880. 2.'j3r)4. 
Blue-black. Slab (j^ inches s(|uare. Harford County. Quarries of Hail'onl 

Peach Bottom Slate Company. Tenth C(misus, isso. )>ry.>\hi. 
Blue-ldack. Slab G inches square. liarford County. Quari'y ot .L V,'. Jones it 

C.). Tenth Census, 1880. 2.'>;«;(;. 

Blue-biack. Slab fi inches siiuare. IlarftU'd County. Quarry of T. W. Jones. 

Tenth Census. 2r):i67. 

Blue-black. Harford County. Quarries of Harford Peach Bottom Slate Com- 

l)any. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G411. 

Blue-black. Harford County. Quarries of Harford Peach Bottom Slate Com- 

pany. Tenth Census, 1S80. 2G410. 

Purple. 4 by 4 by 2 inches. Ijamsville, Fredericdv County. Quarries of Mary- 
land Slate Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G'.K'>2. 

Blue-black. Slab 8 inches s(iuare. Harford County. Quarry o'' W. E. Will- 

iams & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 253G2. 

r>lue-bl;ick. Slab 8 inches square. Harford Connty. Quarry of W. C. Roberts 

&. Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 25;5G:i. 
Bracket of carved slate. 10 by 8 inches. Harford (!oiinty. Quarries of Ilarlbrd 
P(iach l>ottom Slate (Jompany. Tenth Ccnisus, 1880. 2G412. 

MASS.XCUUSKTTS. 

Steatite [soapstone]. Coarse; dark gray. Two miles southeast of Dana, Worces- 
ter County. Quarry of Kimball, Osgood A:. Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(;4;>i). 

Serpentine. Compact; very dark green, lujarly black; takes but a dull polish. 
(I inch cube. Ess(!x County. 2.")02G. 

Couq)act; very light gremi ; takes a dull polish. Newburyi>ort, Essex County. 

Centennial, 187(). 2(i010. 

Deep green, nearly l)la(d< ; line and compact; lakes but a. dull jtolish. Lynn- 

field, Essex Connty. (^)iiairies of Ijynnlield Soapstone Company. Tenth 
Census, 1880. 2G.V.4. 



652 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

Dolomite Lmfuble]. Lower .Silurian; puro white; crystalline. Lee^ Berkshire 
County. Tenth Census, 1880. 25012. 

Lower Silurian ; while; crystalline. Lee, Berkshire County. Quarry of F. S. 

Gross. Tenth Census, 1880. 26070, 
Magnesian limestone. Lower Silurian; gray; coarse; crystalline. Pittsfield, 

Berkshire County. Tenth Census. 26057. 
Magne.sian lime.stone [marble]. Lower Silurian; white; coarsely crystalline. 

Lei", Berkshire County. Tenth Census, 1880. 27004. 

Lower Silurian; white; crystalline. Egremont, Berkshire County. Centen- 

nial, 1876. 17426. 

Lower Silurian; gray; fino and compact. Stockhridge, Berkshire County. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 260G9. 
Lower Silurian; white; coarsely crystalline. Sheffield, Berkshire County. 

Quarry of Briggs &- Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 26081. 
Limestone [marble]. Lower Silurian; white; crystalline. Alford, Berkshire 

County. Centennial, 1876. 17437. 

Lower Silurian; white; clonded. Alford, Berkshire County. 11. S. Fitch's 

(luarry. Tentli Census, 1880. 26082. 
Hornblende granite. Coarse; dark gray. Two specimens. Quincy, Norfolk 
County. Quarry of C. H. Hardwick &. Co. Tentli Census, 18-0. 2.5609. 

Coarse; dark gray. Quincy, Norfolk County. Quarry of Wendell & Co. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25610. 

Coarse; pinkish gray. Quincy, Norfolk County. Quarry of Wemlell & Co. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25611. 

Coarse; dark gray. Quincy, Norfolk County. Quarry of Field Sz Wild. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25616. 

Medium ; light gray. 6-inch cube. Quincy, Norfolk County. Centennial, 

1876. 17430. 

Coarse; dark gray. 6-inch cube. Quincy, Norfolk County. Centennial, 1876. 

17432. 

Coarse; dark gray. 6-inch cube. Quincy, Norfiolk County. Centennial, 1876. 

17433. 

Coarse; dark gray. Quincy, Norfolk County. Quarry of Barker tt Sons. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25606. 

Coarse; dark gray. Two specimens. Quincy, Norfolk County. Quarry of 

C. H. Hardwick &, Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 25608. 

Coarse; dark gray. Quincy, Norfolk County. Quarry of McKenzic & Patter- 

son. Tenth Census, 1880. 26973. 

Coarse; light pinkish gray. Quincy, Norfolk County. Centennial, 1876. 26002. 

Coarse; dark red. Quincy, Norfolk County. Quarry of H. Barker & Son. 

G. P. Merrill. 28554. 

Coarse; dark pinkish gray. Polished slal) 35 by 35 by 3 inches. Quincy, 

Norfolk County. Quarry of H. Barker & Sons. Tenth Census, 18S0. 26938. 

Coarse; dark gray. 6-inch cube. Quincy, N<u-folk County. Centennial, 1876. 

17449. 

Coarse; dark gray. Two specimens. Quincy, Norfolk County. Quarry of 

Mc^^enzie & I'atterson. Tenth Census, 1880. 25607. 

Coarse; dark gray. 6-inch cube. Quincy, Norfolk County. Centennial, 1876. 

17435. 

Coarse; dark gray. Quincy, Norfolk County. Centennial, 1876. 17436. 



lUllLDINa AM) Oi^NAMKN TAL SIO.NKS. 553 

Horublende granite. Coarse-; dark gray. (J-iiicli cube. Qiiiuty, Norfolk Couuty. 
CeiitiMinial. l--7(i. \7VZ.\. 

C'oaisc; uray. tiiiicli cube. (,>uiiicy, Norfolk County'. Centennial, l.STO. 

iri-Jf). 

Coai'.sc ; (lark j^ray. (i-inc.i cnlie. C^Miiiuy, Noi'I'olk (Jonnty. Centennial, 

1^70. ]74-i7. 

Coarse; dark <;iay. (.^lainey, Norf(dk Connty. Cenh^nnial, 187('i. ]74"Jl(. 

Coarse; {;ray. Wesl (jtiiiney, Norfolk Connty. Quarry of F. J. l^iller A ('o. 

Tenth (^'nsns, issO. -J.')!;!!!. 

Coarse; dark gray. West Quiney, Norfolk Connty. <,»narry of O. T. ]>i>gers 

A- Co. Tenth Census, l.^'^'O. 2::>('>0^>. 

Coarse: dark gray. West Qniney, Norfolk (Jonnty. C. Wilson's (juarry. 

Tenth Census. issO. •jr)(;i7. 

Ilpidote granite. Fine; light pink, green spotted. Dedluun, Norfolk Connty. 
I'.nllard's.)ii:irry. Tenth Censns, IrtSO. lidlJSC). 
— Fine; light ])ink. green spotted. Dedhain, Norfolk Connty. J. Delaney's 
quai'ry. Tenth Census, ISSO. 2K:!.'^7. 
Eiotite granite. Coarse; light gray, slightly i)inkish. Randolidi, Norfidk ('onnty. 

Quariy of S. F>. Corliss. Tenth Census, LS,s(l. 2^)^}[)-i. 
MiLSCovite gneiss. Fine; gray. Westford, Middlesex Connty. Quarry of Ij. Palmer 
A Sons. Tenth Cen.sus, 1880. 2M^>V>. 

■ Gray; tinely porj)hyritie. Westford, Middlesex County. S. P^letehcr's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 18.St). 2(!4.'')7. 

Fine ; light gray. We.stford, Middles(!X County. A. Fletcher's (]narry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 2r)4r>8. 

FiiH); gray. Westford, Mi(kllesex County. W. Eeed's quarry. Tenth Census, 

IMSI). 2t)-l()l». 

■ Fine; gray. Westford, Middlesex County. U. Reed's quarry. Tenth Census, 

1880. 26401. 

Fine: gray. Westford, i\riddlese-x (!ounly. D. Reed's quarry. Tenth (Jensus, 

\SK). 2MG->. 

Coarse; gray. West Andovcr, Essex Connty. J. Maddox'.s <|uarry. Tenlh 

Census, 1880. 2t)'>'X>. 

Coarse; light gray. Ijawrence, Essex Connty. J. Moulton's (jnarry Tenth 

Census, 1880. 2(;r)47. 

Mtulinni ; light gray, ('harlton, Worcester Connty. Quarry of Laiuson *fc 

Woodhury. Tenth Censn.s, 1«80. 23;)2'J. 

Fine; light gray. Mon.son, IIain])d(ai County. Quarry of W. N. Flint A Co. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2.^)1)11. 

Muscovite biotite gneiss. Fine; light gray. Westford, Middlesex Ctnnty. 
(Quarry of Swett A Sinilh. Tenth Census, ISSO. 2t)4r)!l. 

Biotite gjieiss. Viar-, gray; slightly pinkish. Westford, Middlesex ('ounly. W. 
Heed's (piarry. Tent h Census, lS,-!0, 2,'")r>t4. 

(.'oarse ; dark gray. Ivowell, Middlesex Connty. S. L. Ward's ((uarrw 'I'enlii 

Census, 1880. 2(5U71. 

Coarse; light gray. (J-inch cube. Douglass, Worcc^ster County. Centennial, 

187(5. 17431. 

Coarse; gray. Northbridge, Worcester (^)unfy. (Quarry of S. J. Fowler, jr. 

Tenth Cen.sns, 1880. 20194. 



554 REPORT L»N NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Biotite gneiss. Fine,; <l;irk gray. Mousou, Ilainpdeu County. Quarry of W. N, 
Flint & Co., Mass. Tenth Census, 1880. '2:3910. 

Fine; light gray. Northfield, Franklin Ctinnty. Quarry of Bassett & Lyons. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2.3944. 
Biotite granite. Coarse; light pink. Franiingham, Muldlesex County. J. G. 
Cloyse's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 20425. 

Coarse; light pinkish gray. Franiingham, Middlesex County. J. G. Cloyse's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26426. 

Coarse; gray. Franiinghani, Middlesex County. J. G. Cloyse's quarry. Tenth 

Census. 26428. 

Coarse; pinkish gray, with green blotches. North liaston, 15rist<d County. 

M. Gilbert's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26918. 

Coarse; pink. North Easton, Bristol County. Quarry of Ames & Son. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26821. 

Coarse ; light gray. Freetown, Bristol County. Fall River Granite Com- 

pany. Tentli Census, 1880. 25578. 

Coarse; light pink. Near Milford, Worcester County, (^.uarry of Norcross 

Brothers. Tenth Census, 1880. 26767. 

Coarse ; light pink. Used in the construction of the new city hall at Albany, 

N. Y. Milford, Worcester County. J.S.Sherman's quarry. Tenth Census, 
1880. 26648. 

Medium; light gray with greenish blotches. Near Milford, Worcester County. 

Boston and Albany Railroad Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26505. 

Fine ; dark graj'. Leoniinstei', Worcester County. S. L. Kittridgc's r]_uarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26400. 

Fine; dark gray. Clinton, Worcester County. L. M. Allen's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26399. 

Coarse; light pink. Brockton, riymouih County. W. T. Cleaveland's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5579. 
Hornblende biotite (annite) granite. Coai"se ; light gray; slightly greenish. Glou- 

eestei', Essex County. S. P. Andrews's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25500. 
Hornblende granite. Coarse; gray; slightly pinkishc Gloucester, Essex County, 

Centennial, 1876. 25287. 

Coarse ; gray. Gloucester, Essex County. Trumbull Granite Company. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25501. 

Coarse ; light greenish gray. Used in the construction of the Butler house on 

.Capitol Hill, Wafehingtou, D. C. Gloucester, Essex County. Cape Ann 
Granite Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26545. 

Coarse; gray. Gloucester, Essex County. Cape Ann Granite Company. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26544. 

Coarse; gray. Two specimens. Gloucester, Essex County. Quarry of Barker 

Brothers. Tenth Census, 1880. 26553. 

Coarse; greenish gray. Gloucester, Ess(>x County. Lanesvillc Granite Com- 

pany. Tenth Census, 1880. 26955. 

Coarse; light greenish gray. Wyoma, Essex County. J. R. Jordan's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 266:57. 

Coarse; greenish gray. Wyoma, Essex County. .T. D. Wilson's (juarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26638. 

Coarse; dark gray. Rockport, Essex County. Lanesvillc Granite Company. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26953. 

Coarse; gray, liockport, Essex County. Rocki)ortGrauit(^ Company. Tentli 

Census, 1880. 26923. 



iUJILDING AND ORNAMENTAL • .STONES. 555 

Hornblende granite. Course; ,!;r;iy. Jiockpoit, Essex Couiily. Pigeon Hill Gran- 
ite Coiiipan}'. Tenth feuMus, IssO. -JCMKi. 

Coarse; greeuisb. l'eal>o(ly, Essex (bounty. (Jiiarry of I'litiiani .V LinneLani. 

Tenth Census, 188(1. 'i.')Tr>7. 
Muscovite biotite granite. Coarse; light gray. Worcester, Worcester County. 

(i.\). Wel)l.'s (luarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2i)440. 
Biotite mnscovite granite. Coarse; light gray. Fitchburg, Worcester County. 

S. 1'. Litchlield's <iuarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 258()'i. 
Medium; light gray. C-inch cube. Fitchburg, Worcester County. Centen- 
nial, 187G. 174:58. 

Fine; dark gray. Becket, Berkshire County. Ciiester (Jranite (!onipany. 

Tenth Census, l?-80. •2(;i07. 

Fine; gray. Becket. Berkshire County. Quarry of McClellan & Coodwiu. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2()108. 
Granite. Coarse; liglit pinkish, with green blotclies. Wood's Holl, liarnsfaJde 

County. U. S. Fish Conniiission. 2()8i-'r). 
Quartz porphyry. Dark red, with pink spots; fine ami compact. Slab 4 l)y G 
inches. Hiugham, riymouth County. George F. Merrill, 1884. ;3594;5. 

This is a most beautiful and durable stone, but is at present scarcely at 
all used on account of its hardness. . 
Diabase. Coarse; dark gray. Used for pavements and tlie rougli work of founda- 
tions. Medford, Middlesex County. Medford quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 
20422. 

Coarse; dark gray. Used for pavements and the rough work of foundations 

Medford, Middlesex County. Medford (piarry. Tenth(!ensus, 1880. 21)424. 

Coarse ; light gray, with pink spots. Used for pavements, buihling, and nn)nu- 

mental work. Somerville, Middlesex County. E. Fitzgerald's (juarry. 
Tenth Census, 1880. 2(;54U. 
Coarse ; light gray, with [>ink spots. Used for pavements, building, and monu- 
mental work. Sonuuville, Middlesex County. E. Fitzgerald's quarry. 
Tenth Census, 1880. 21ir).50. 

Mesozoic ; dark greenish gray; fine and compact. Used chielly for street 

liavenients. East Long Meadow, Hampden tlount-y. Ctmtennial, 187C). 1714(>. 
Melaphyr. Coni])act ; amygdaloidal ; dark green, with rounded and ov.al spots of 

light green and white. Used for foundations and rough construction. Brighton, 

Suffolk County. Quarry of S. W. Brown, jr. Tentb Census. 2Gr)r)2. 
Sandstone. Triassic; tine; brown. Used extensively for general building and 

trimming purj)Oses. East Long Meadow, Hampden County. Centennial, 187(). 

17440. 

Triassi(; ; fine; brown. Used as above. East Long Mea'low, Hampden County. 

Centennial, 187(). 1744:5. 

Triassic; fine; brown. East Long Meadow, Hampden County. Centennial, 

187G. 17444. 

Triassic.; fine; light brown. Long Meadow, Hampden County. Cenltinnial, 

187G. 17445. 
Conglomerate. Coarse; greenish; very compact. Used for general building jiur- 
poses. Dorchester, Suffolk County. Owen Nasou's quarry. Tenth Ci'nsiis^ 
1880. 2G746. 

MICHIGAN. 

Limestone. Devonian; dra,b ; fossiliferous. Sii>ley's Stivtion, Waync^. County. F. 
Sibley's quarry. 'I'enth Census, ISSO. 2G20G. 



b')G REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSKUx\r, 1886. 

Limestone. Devoiiiau; gniy. Near Raisinville, Monroe Comity. Fritz Rath's 

(luairy. Tfiitli Census, 18-0. 26207. 
Granite. Fine; light red. Near Vulcan, Menionioee County. F. L. Lasier's quairy. 

Ten 111 Census, 1880. 27:>43. 
Biotite gneiss. Coarse; gray. Near Viilcau, Menominee County. F. L. Lasier's 

quarry. Teutli Census, 1880. 27345. 
Sandstone. Potsdam; light brown gray spotted ; medium. Maniuette, Maniuette 

County. Centennial 1876. 18927. 

Potsdam; line; reddish brown. Marquette, Marquette County. Watson & 

Palmer's quarry. John S. F. Batcheu. 27510. 

Potsdam; dark brown; medium. Marquette, Maniuette County. Quarry of 

Wolf, Jacobs & Co. John S. F. Batchen. 28501. 

Potsdam; line; brown and reddish brown. Two siieciuiens. Near L'Anse, 

Houghton County. L'Anse Brownstone Companj-. John S. F. Batchen. 27356. 

Potsdam; brown with gray bauds; medium. L'Anse, Houghton County. 

Ij'Anse Browustone Company. John S. F. Batcheu. 27528. 
Potsdam. Brown with gray spots ; medium. Near L'Anse, Houghton County. 

L'Anse Brownstdue Company. John S. F. Batcheu. 27522. 
— — Sub-Carhoniferous; fine; light yellowish l>rown. Stoney Point, .Jackson County. 

jNIichigau Stone Company. John S. F. liatchen. 28500. 
— ■ — Potsdam; line; red. Portage entry, Baraga Countj*. Portage Entry quarry. 

John S. F. Batcheu. 28655. 
Potsdam; line; reddish browu. Isle Royalo, Lake Superior. John S. F. 

Batchen. 34992. 
Quartzite. Light-colored; fine and compact. Two specimens, 18 by 9 by 7 incliis 
and 4 inch cube. Near Vulcan, Menominee County. F. L. Lasier's ((nany. 
Tenth Census, 1880. 27344. 
Slate. Blue black. Shib 8 iuches s(iuarc. Huron Bay. Centennial 1876. 26036. 

Blue black. Arvon, Baraga County. Clinton ijuarry. J. S. F. Batchen, 1S>'3. 

27342. 

MINNKSOTA. 

Dolomite. Lower Silurian; coarse; drab; vesicular. Stillwater, WashingtdU 
County. Quarry of Hersey, Staples & Hall. Tenth Census, 1880. 26644. 

Lower Silurian ; light buif; fine; compact. Stillwater, Washington Couniy. 

Quarry of Hersey, Staples & Hall. Tenth Census, 1880. 26646. 

Lower Silurian ; light-colored; finely vesicular. Two specimens. Fronteuac, 

Goodhue County. Quarry of Fostcviu & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 267.55. 

Lower Silurian; light-colored; vesicular. Red Wing, Goodhue County. G. 

A. Carlson's quarry. Tenth Census, 18S0. 26754. 

Lower Silurian ; 1 ight- colored ; coarse; vesicular. Red Wing, GoodhueConnty. 

R. L. Jierghind's quarry. Tenth Census. 1880. 26725. 

Lower Silurian ; fine; reddish. Kasota, Le Sueur County. Quarry of Brei n, 

Young & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5965. 

Lower Silurian ; fine; light bufi". Kasota, Lc Sueur C'onnty. .). W. liiilicnck's 

(juarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25904. 

Lower Silurian ; coarse; buff. Two specimens. Mankato, Blue Earth Connly. 

O. R. Matlier's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.J821. 

Lower Silurian; drab; compact. Winona, Winona County. C. M.Porter's 

(luarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26732. 



BUILDI.NG AND OliNAMENTAL STONES. 557 

Siliceous dolomite. Lower Silurian ; light (halt; vesicular. Stillwater, Washing- 
ton Coimly. C^)uarry of Horsey, Staples As Hall. Tenth Census, IrfSU. '^.(i()4r). 

Lower Silurian ; gray; Ibssiliterous. Minneapolis, Hennepin County. Quarry 

of Foley & Herbert, Tenth Census, 1880. 25825. 

Lower Silurian; gray; liuely fossiliferons; compact. Clinton Falls, Steele 

County. Quarry of Lindersniith A'-Sou. Tenth Census, 1880. 267.58. 

Lower Silurian ; light-colored; cellular. Mantorville, Dodge County. Quarry 

of Hook, Mantor & Dorg. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(JG8l). 
Magnesian limestone. Lower Silurian ; gray; fossiliferons. Saint Paul, Kaniscy 
County. Quarry of IJreen ifc Young. Tenth Census, 188U. 20288. 

Lower Silurian; gray; fossiliferons. Minneapolis, Hennepin County. A. 

Dahl's (juarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25871. 

Lower Silurian ; very light drab; tine; compact; dedrilic. Red Wing, Good- 

hue County. W. W. Sweeney's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2t)724. 

Siliceous magnesian limestone. Lower Silurian; gray; fossiliferons. Saint Paul, 
Kamsey County. W. Dawson's ([uarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G743. 

Lower Silurian ; drab; coarsely fossiliferons. Minneai)olis, Hennepin County. 

Jas. Baxter's (piarry. Tenth Census, lr;80. 25831. • 

Limestone. Lower Silurian: gray; fossiliferons. Two specimens. Minneapolis, 
Hennepin County. W. W. Eastnum's qnarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25824. 

Lower Silurian; gray; finely fossiliferons; compact. Canon City, Rice County. 

Philip Cromer's (jnarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26757. 

Lower Silurian ; pinkish. Near Kasota, Le Sueur County. ,1. S. V. P>atchen, 

1884. :?4U94. 
Calcareous dolomite. Lower Silurian ; gray; finely fossiliferons ; compact. Cahou 

City, Rice County. Philip Cromer's qnarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G75G. 
Hornblende granite. Coarse; dull red. East Saint Cloud, Sherburne County. 
Quarry of Preen Sl Young. Tenth Census, 1880. 26281). 

Coarse; gray. East Saint Cloud, Sherburne County. Quarry of lireen &. 

Young. Tenth Census, 1880. 26200. 

Medium; gray. East Saint Cloud, Sherburne County. Quarry of Preen & 

Young. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5964, 

Medium; gray. Sank Rapids, Benton County. O. S. Reader's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1881). 2574:5. 

Granite. Coarse; red. Four miles below Beaver Bay, Lake. County. Tenth Cen- 
sus, 1880. 26518. 

Medium; dull red. Beaver Bay, Lake County. Quarry of Wieland Bros. 

Tenth Census, 1S80. 266:!;]. 
Hornblende mica granite. Coarse; gray. Watab, Benton County. Quarry of 
Sanlpaugh & Bros, Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5822. 

Coarse; dull red. Watab, Benton County. Centennial, 187(). 26000. 

Coar.se; red. 14 by 11 by '.». Watab, Benton County. H. I). Curney, 1885. 

:?7605. 

Coarse; dull red. Watab, Benton County. Quarry of Sanlpaugh iV Bros. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2582:5. 

Quartz porphyry. Reddish brown. ISaplism River, Lake County. Tenth Census, 
1880. 20620. 

Dark reddish brown. Diiluth, Saint Louis County. 'I'enth ('eusus, 1880. 

264:38. 
Diabase. Nearly black; very fine and compact, Dulnth, Saint Louis County, 
Tenth Census, 1880. 20442. 



558 rp:port on national museum, is^g. 

Diabase. Nearly black; very fine and compact. Used for foundations and rougli 
constrnctiou. Near Duluth, Saint Louis Couutj'. United States Government Sur- 
vey. Teutli Census, 1880. 265G7. 

Nearly black ; fine and compact. Two Harbor Bay, Lake Superior, Lake 

County. Tenth Census, 1880, 2GG34. 

Gabbro. Coarse; dark gray. Used for house trimmings and general building. Du- 
luth, Saint Louis Couuty. Teuth Census, 1880. 2G443. 

Tliis stone is commercially known as IJalidh granite. 

Massive labradorite. Coarse; compact; light greenish. Three miles East of 
IJeavcr liay, Lake County. Tenth Census, 1880. 26571. 

Olivine diabase. Lower Silurian ; nearly black; fine and compact. Used for foun- 
dations and rough construction. Taylor's Falls, Chisago County. Tenth Census, 
1880. 2(i;V.)l. 

Sandstone. Lower Silurian; fine; brown with light spots. Fond du Lac, Saint 
Louis Couuty. J. G. McDonald's quarry. Teuth Census, 1880. Two specimens. 
2G44G. 

liower Silurian ; fine; brown with light spots. Fond du Lac, Saint Louis 

Ccuinty. M. }3oyJes quarry. Tenth Census. 2G447. 

Lower Silurian; line; very light coloied. Hinckley, Pine County. Saint 

Paul and Duluth liailroad. Tenth Census. 26G3G. 

Lower.Silnrian'; iine and friable ; light-colored with ferrnginons blotches. Jor- 

dan, Scott County. Phillip Kipp's quarry. Tenth Census. 2G68G. 
Lower Silurian ; tine, friable ; very light buff with ferruginous blotches. Jor- 
dan, Scott County. Phillip Kipp's quarry. Tenth Census. 26687. 

Lower Silurian; light-colored; fine and friable. Dakota, Winona Couuty. 

Quarry of Brown & Hartley. Tenth Census. 2G723. 

Lower Silurian ; gray; fine and friable. Dresbach, Winona County. Quarry 

of J. F. Fostevin,jr. 2G827. 

Purplish brown ; medium. Luverue, Rock Couuty. John S. F. Batelien. 

27407. 

Lower Silurian ; fine; yellow. Mendota, Dakota County. Quarry of Steele & 

Mclntyre. Tenth Census. 26772. 
Quartzite. Potsdam; maroon; flue and compact. Courtland, Nicollet County. 

Flit/ Meyerding's quarry. Teuth Census. 2G688. 
Slate, Greenish. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Near Knife Falls, Carlton County. Saint 

Paul and Duluth Railroad. Tenth Census, 1880. 26488. 

MISSISSIPPI. 
Limestone. Gray ; finely fossil ifei'ous ; compact. Tishomingo County, 1885. 37580. 
Sandstone. Very light yellow ; fine; cellular. Tishomingo County. 37581. 

Light colored ; soft and friable. Tishomingo County. 37599. 

Light colored ; medium. Foot cube. Stoniugtou, Jefferson County. 37820. 

Sandstone, argillaceous. Fine; yellow. Rankin Couuty. 37598. . 

MlSSOUlil. 

Magnesian limestone [marble]. Red ; white spotted. Slab 7 by 5 by 1 inches. 
Iron Couuty. Centennial, 1876. 27123. 

Dull red ; variegated. Sec. 36, T. 33, R. 52, Madison Couuty. Cedar Creek 

•luarry. Teuth Census, 1880. 2G()07. 
Limestone. Sub-Carliouiferons ; drab; line and compact. Saint Louis. Quarxy of 
Sehranlva & Veith. 'J'cnih Census, 1880. 26701. 



BUILDING AND OKNAMENTAL STONES. bb\) 

Limestone. Suh-C'arhonifi^roiis ; drab; linely fossiliforons. Suiut liOiii.s. Quarry 
111' liaiiibrick &. Moriliaui. Tiuith Census, 1880. 2071;'.. 

Sub-Carbouilerons; light ;j;ray ; line and compact. Saint Louis. JobuMcKeu- 

ua'.s quarry. Tenth L'on.sns, 1880. 2G714. 

Sub-Carhouifcrons ; drab; lino and compact;. Near Saint Louis, Saint Louis 

County. George Redemeyer's quarry. Tenth Cimsus, 1880. SOTK!. 

Suit-Carboniferous; drab; fine; compact; semi-crystaHine. Near Saint Louis, 

Saint Louis County. George Redemeyer's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 
2(1717. 

Sub-Carboniferous; drab; fine-grained; compaet ; fossil ilVrous. S;iiiit Louis, 

Saint LouisConuty. Diederich Scharinghaus's ([uariy. 'J'entli Ccumis, l^-^O. 
20718. 

Sub-Carboniferous; light (•olor<'d ; line-grained; couqiaet. Siiint Louis. J. 

O'Meara's quarry. Tenth Census, I88lt. 2(;722. 

Light colored; seuii-erystalline; fossiliferous. Near Glencoc, Saint Louis 

County. Glencoe Linui Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(il'.():!. 
Sub-Carbonifei-ioiis ; light colored ; semi-crystalline; fossiliferous. Near Glen- 
coe, Saint Louis (Jouuty. (Oliver's quarry. Tenth Census, l.-'80. 20:'><)-l. 

Coarse; bull'; fossiliferous. Glencoe. IJi'anch, Saint Louis (Jounty. (>Iiver's 

(juarry. Ti nth Census, l(S80. 2(i77:!. 

Sub-Carbonifei-ous; li!;hlcol<>re(l ; linel,\' fossiliferous. liarrel t's Station, Saint 

Louis Ctnmty. .1. Lauibrick's quarry. .7. S. f. P.'itelieu, ls-<|. ;'>r)0'.l8. 

Sub-Carboniferious ; dark; line an<l ronqtaet. JJoonville, Cooper County. 

Eus.seirs quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.'>()79. 

Gray; finely fossiliferous. Carthage, Jasper County. Lime quarry. Tenth 

Census, 18-^0. 2(;.".GL 

Carboniferous; dark biilf mottled; fossil-bearing. Kansas City, Jackson 

County. James Dowling's ([uarry. Tenth Census, 1881). 2.">:;o;!. 

Light colored; fine-grained; compact. Carthage, .Jasper .County. Kailroad 

Ih'idge (juari-y. Tenth Census, 1S80. 2G.")().'). 

Sub-Carboniferous ; light gray ; fossiliferous. Springfield, (Jreene County. 

ijeftwick's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2t3.")(;i. 

Sub-Carboniferous; light gray ; fossiliferous. Springliejd, Greene County. J. 

S. Phelps's (iiiany. 'I'entli Census, 1880. 2Li.")0:!. 

Dark; eonipaet; fossil ii'erous. Neosho, Newton Coiiuly. Ivalliffe qiiariy. 

Tenth Census, IS.^O. 2()(i.')7. 

Nearly white; crystalline; fossiliferous. Hannibal, Marion County. ''City" 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 20210. 

Nearly white; crystalline; fossiliferous. Bear Creek, jMarion County. Han- 

nibal, Lime County. Tenth Census, 1880. 20221. 

Potsdani ; pinkish; line and compaet; takes a. good polish. Near Ironton, 

Iron County. Kasnick's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2t)'.M2. 

Drab; compact; fossil-bearing. Near New London, Kails County. Brachears's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 20227. 

Carboniferous; light colored ; line-graiiied. Pleasant Ilill, Cass County. Par- 

ker's quariy. Tenth C<'nsus, 1880. 20810. 

CarI»onif(>rons ; ilrab ; line-grained; compact. I'leasant Hill, Cass County. 

J'arker's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 20811. 

Carboniferous; dark drab; I'ossiliAu-ous. Near Pleasant Hill, Cass County. 

Cooley's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G8i;?. 



,5GU EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Limestone. Light l>rowu; compact; finely fossiliferous. Near Aniazouia, Andrew 

Coimty. Zinniiermau's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25G00. 
-. — Drah ; fine and compact. Saint Joseph, Buchanan County. Burnes's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26247. 
Gray; comi)act ; fossiliferous. Pans, Monroe County. Eobinson's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26225. 

Lower Silurian ; nearly white ; compact; crystalline. Two specimens. Cape 

Girardeau, Cape Girardeau County. M. Dettlinger's quarry. Tenth Census, 

1880. 26328. 
Dolomite. Sub-Carboniferous; light colored ; fine-grained. Saint Louis. Gottlieb 

Eyermaun's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26715. 
Snb-Carboniferous; drab; fine and compact. Saint Louis, Saint Louis County. 

D. Cavcnaugh's quarrj^ Tenth Census, 1880. 26721. 

Sub-Carboniferous; drab; fine and compact. City of Saint Louis, Saint Louis 

County. Quarry of A. O. Englemauu & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 21)700. 

Lower Silurian; light colored; coarsely vesicular. Jefferson City, Cole 

County. H. W. Holkmeyer's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25656. 

Sub-Carboniferous; bluish, drab, and buff; fine-grained; compact. Two 

specimens. Near Boonville, Cooper County. Stagner's quarry. Tenth 
Census, 1880. 25658. 

Sub-Carboniferous; yellowish brown ; compact; finely fossiliferous. Sedalia, 

Pettis County. Eichard Anderson's (luarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25653. 

Carboniferous; light colored; line; dendritic. Sec. 2, T. 42, E. 21, Henry 

County. Quarry on Grand River. Tenth Census, 1880. 25695. 

Bnft"; fine-grained. Near Irouton, Iron County. Grayson's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26322. 

Light drab ; granular. Canton, Lewis County. Canton Stone Company. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26861. 

Very light drab ; fine and compact. Dutzow, Warren County. J. II. Schweiss- 

guth's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880.' 26935. 
Siliceous dolomite. Lower Silurian ; light colored ; fine-grained ; compact. Jef- 
ferson City, Cole County. II. W. Holkmeyer's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 
25655. 

Sub-Carboniferous; drab; fine-grained; compact. Near Sedalia, Pettis County. 

Balmer's quarry. Teuth Census, 1880. 25654. 

Light colored ; rust-spotted; fine and compact. Jones's Station, Rails County. 

Jones's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26221. 

Silurian; light drab ; mottled; fine-grained; compact. Near Bowling Green, 

Pike County. McElroy's quarry. Tenth Censas, 1880. Two specimens. 
26226. 

Niagara; light colored; fine; compact. Near Bowling Green, Pike County. 

Jacob Speer's quarry. Teuth Census, 1880. 26228. 

Carboniferous; drab; tine-grained. Near Pleasant Hill, Cass County. Pow- 

ell's qnarry. Teuth Census, 1880. 26812. 

Light colored ; fine compact. Near Marsbfield, Webster County. Mark Hiib- 

ble's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26655. 

Light colored ; fine and compact. Stontland, Camden County. From cut on 

railroad. Tenth Census, 1880. 26659. 

Light drab; fine-grained and compact. Near Hermann, Gasconade County, 

Quarry of J, C. Grass. Tenth Census, 1880. 25958. 



IUIILDIM; AM) OKNAMKNTAL STONES. 561 

Siliceous dolomite. l>i,Li,lil colorcl: rnii'.<;r,iiiii(l ; coiiii.act. Near l)c Soto, Jt^fferson 
L'oiKiiy. Douiiclly'.s ([iiany. 'IV'iit.li Cciihus, liS.so. 'Jli:!!!. 

Dark .spotted ; coiiise; \'i yicu!ar. Near Osage, Ohagc (Joiiiily. Otsage (iiuirry. 

Tenth Census, ISM). •J.">(;r.7. 
Magnesian limestone. Suh-C'arhonilerous ; dark, willi large light .si)ots ; tine- 
gruiiiod. Sechilia, i'etti.s County. Richard Amh-rson's (juarry. Tenth (_!ensns, 
Ira'. 25i\'y-A. 

CarhonileroMs : light eolored ; coarsely oolitic. Near Kan.sas (Jity, .Jackson 

County. J. Baunian's quarry. Tenth Census, 1S80. 2i>'.VJ\. 

Dark spotted ; iuie and compact. Neosho, Nowton County. Karnes'.s ((uarry. 

Tenth Census, IHSO. 2G(;.')8. 

Butt'; eonijiact ; fo&sililerous. Ilanuihal, Miirion County. Citytpiarry. Tenth 

Census, 1S8(). 'J<W20. 

Potsdam; letl with white spots ; lino and compact ; takes a good polish. Near 

Fredcricktown, Madison County. Tenth Census, 1880. xJliKj;!. 
Argillaceou.s limestone. Carhonilerous ; light colored and hi ue ; lino and com- 
pact. Two specimens. Near Clinton, Henry County. C. B. Jordan's quarry. 
Tenth Census, 1880. 25096. 

Lithographic limestone. Suh-Carhoniferous ; drah ; fine-grained ; compact. Sav- 
ert<ui. Kails County. Eureka Quarry Company. J. S. F. Batchen, 188:1. 28408. 

Ferruginous limestone. Drah; compact; linely fossiliferous. Near Forest City, 
li(dt County. John Pollack's quarry. Tenth Census, 18S0. 25.'')r)'J. 

Granite. Coarse; light red. Six-inch cuhe. Granitesville, Iron County. \V. War- 
nufs (juarry. Centennial, 1870. 2.5025. 

Coarse ; red. Iron Township, Iron County. Centennial, 187(J. 1741>8. 

Coarse ; light red. Three and a half miles south oflron Mountain, Iron County 

Breman's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26321. 

Coarse; pinkish gray. Silver Mountain, Madison County. Einstein's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26594. 

Biotite granite. Coarse; light red. Granitesville, Iron County. Syenite Granite 
Company. F. W. Mott, 1883. 27455. 

Coarse; reddish gray. Syenite, Saint Francois County. Syenite Granite Com- 

pany. F. W. Mott, 1883. 27450. 

Note. — The Missou'i granites, as a rule, contain only traces of hornblende 
or mica. 

Hornblende granite. Medium; gray. Six-inch cube. Kuoh Lick, Saint Fiauf;oi8 

County. Centennial, 187(). 25068. 

Medium ; gray. Six-inch cuhe. Knoh Lick, Saint Fraugois County. 25066. 

Olivine diabase. Medium; dark gray. West foot of Tom Luck Mountain, Iron 

County. Ferguson's (juarry. Tentli Census, 1880. 26333. 
Calcareous sandstone. Carhoniferous ; light giay ; medium. Warrenshurgh, 
Johnison County. Quarry of Pickle A- Pro. Tenth Census. 26936. 

Carboniferous ; gray ; medium. Near Warrensbnrgli, Johnson County. Quarry 

of Pickle & Bros. 25305. 

Bright red ; micaceous. Two spiicimens. Kockville, liates (Jounty. (Quarry of 

Henry Brown &. Co. Tiuith (Jensus. 268()2. 

Carboniferous; ^in(^ ; gray. Near Miami Station, Carroll County. White Kock 

Quarry Company. Tenth Census. 26306. 

Fine; light colored. Near Meadville, Linn County. J. Fruin's quarry. Tenth 

Census. 26>22. 

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 36 



562 KEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Sandstone. Fine; very Wt^lit brown. Eockville, Bates County. Tenth Census. 
25688. 

Gray; rust-spotted; micaceous. Near But]«!r, Bates County. Curry's quany. 

25742. 

Carboniferous; fine; light gray. Clinton, Henry County. Tenth Census. 

25697. 

Carboniferous ; fine ; very light brown. Clinton, Henry County. Tenth Cen- 

sus. 25698 

Carboniferous; fine; very light bufl", Clinton, Henry County. George Ilap- 

good's quarry. Centennial, 1876. 27105. 

Brown ; porous and friable. Higginsville, La Fayette County. Peter Brand's 

quarry. Tenth Census. 2G286. 

Light colored ; porous and friable. Near Brownsville, Pettis County. CoUius's 

quarry. Tenth Census. 26287. 

Brown; rust-spotted; porous and friable. Keytesville, Chariton County. 

Bartz quarry. Tenth Census. 26305. 

Coarse ; yellow. Near Lamar, Barton County. Jesse Bollinger's quarry. 

Tenth Census. 2ti.562. 
— — ■ Sub-Carboniferous; fiue ; very light bufif. Near Saint Genevieve County. 
Benjamin Eichardson's quarry. Tenth Census. 26685. 

Fine; light colored. Bluff on Arrow Rock road, Howard County. li. T. 

Kingsbury's quarry. Tenth Census. 26223. 
— — Light colored; nearly white. Jones Station, Ralls County. Joues's quarry. 
Tenth Census. 26229. 

Fiue ; light colored ; rust-spotted. Nevada, Vernon County. City of Nevada 

quarry. Tenth Census. 25699. 

Quartzite. Fiue ; gray. West Foot of Tom Luck Mountain, Iron County. Fer- 
gusson's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26333. 

MONTAKA. 

Limestone [marble]. White, dark spotted ; crystalline. Lewis and Clarke County. 

Centennial, 1876. 27088. 
Dolomite (?) [marble]. Dark blue-gray, with veins of dull yellow; fiue; compact. 

Helena, Lewis aud Clarke County. Centennial, 1876. 27089. 

■ Gray; brecciated. Helena, Lewis and Clarke County. Centennial, 1876. 

27090. 
Hornblende tQica granite. Medium ; light gruff. LcAvis and Clarke County. 

George McBurney, ls82. 27087. 

Coarse; greenish gray. Butto, Di^er Lodge County, (ieorge P. Merrill, 1886. 

38565. 

NEBRASKA. 

Limestone, argillaceous. Permiau ; light colored ; fine and conip.act. Roca, Lau- 
caster County. Quarry of Keys tfc Bullock. Tenth Census, 1880. 27204. 

Limestone. Permiau ; light colored ; finely :tossiliferous. Roca, Lancaster County. 
Quarry of Keys & Bullock. Tenth Census, 1880. 27202. 

Permian ; light colored ; com})act ; finely fossiliferous. Roca, Lancaster 

County. Quarry of Keys & Bullock. Tenth Census, 1860. 27203. 

Permian; light colored; fusulina. Syracuse, Otoe County. Tenth Census, 

1880. 27321. 



BUILDING AND OKXAMENTAL STONKS. .OHS 

Limestone. Permian(?) ; lifjlit colon-d; fiisnliiiii. NraiGlcn Ivock, Nfiii.ilia Cniiiiry. 
Quarry of Keys »fe Bullock. Tenth Census, ItfSO. 'JTJOl. 

Permian; light colored; fnsulina. La Platte, Sarny County. AN'illiani A. 

Gnire's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27'322. 



Quartz porphyry. Very dark red with pink porphyritic )"cl<l.si)ars. :'> by :'. I»y li 

inches. Near Great Bend of Car.son Itiver. J. C. JaiisscH, II. S. (icol. Survey. 

35:504. 
Hornblende andesite. Coarse; gray. Used for purposes of rough conslrud inn. 

Three miles cast of ^^irginia City, Storey County. .T. Barrett's (juariy. 'I'entli 

Census, 1880. 2.5746. 

Coarse; porphyritic; light- hi'own spotted with white. Used as al>o\ c. 'I'hrrc 

miles east of Virginia City, Storey County. .J. Barrett's (juarry. 'J'cutli 
Census, 1880. 25747. 

Medium; light gray. Used as above. Two miles west of Keno, Washoe 

County. Fulton's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5708. 
Sandstone. Coarse; gray. Carson City, Oromsby County. Carson (piarry. Tenth 
Census. 25701). 

NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

Steatite [soapstone]. Coarse: comi)a.ct; dark gray. l''rances<()wu. Ccnicnnial, 

]87(). 1U774. 
Biotite muscovite granite. Fine; gray. Concord, Merrimack County. (^)ii,uiy of 
Fuller &Pressey. T(Mith Census, 1880. 25225. 

Fine ; gray. Concord, Merrimack Coiiuty. Quarry of Iladley vV- lloyt. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2.522(). 

Medium; gray. Concord, Merrimack County. Quarry of Donagau tt Davis. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26'J46. 

Medium; light gray. Concord, Merrimack County. A. llollis's (piarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 27081. 

Fine; gray. Concord, Merrimack County. M. H. Johnson's ([uarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 20945. 

Fine; gray. Concord, Merrimack County. Centennial, LSrtJ. 1748t). 

Fine ; light gray. Concord, Merrimack t!ounty. Concord Granite Conij)aiiy. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25851). 

Fine; light gray. Concord, Merrimack Ccumty. Granite Kailway Com- 
pany. Tenth Census, 1880. 25G49. 

Fine; gray. Concord, Merrimack County. F. Ilodgman's (piarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 2,5223. 

Fine; light gray. Foot cube. Concord, ]\lerrima(;k County. Centenni.'il 

1870. 25043. 

- — Medium; gray. W(!st Concord, Merrimack County. (Quarry of Crowley Si, 

Quinn. Tenth Census, 1880. 257GG. 
Fine; light gray. West Concord, Merrimack County. (.Quarry of I'tilney & 

Nutting. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5222. 
Fine; light, gray. West Concord, Merrimack County, (i. A. Bosworth's 

ipiarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25224. 
Medium ; light gray. Allenstown, Mt^rriiMack County. ('. A. Bailey's (juarry. 

Tenth Census, 188f). 2.5874. 

Fine; light gray. Fitzwilliam, Che.sjiire Couiitv. D. H. Reed's (juarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2fil20. 



bGA REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

Biotite luuscovite granite. Fine; li<;1U- ^ray. Fitzwilliaiii, Cheshire County. J. 
E. Fisher's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2S327:?. 

Medium; ^I'^^y ! indistinctly pori)Uyritic. Fitzwilliau), Cheshire County. M. 

Wilson's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G111). 

Fine; gray. Marlborough, Cheshire County. Centennial, 187G. 17485. 

Fine; light gray. Marlborough, Cheshire County. Tenth Census, 1880. 252/i8. 

Fine; gray. Troy, Cheshire County. Centennial, I87fi. 17487. 

Fine ; light gray. Troy, Cheshire County. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5428. 

Fine ; light gray. Troy, Cheshire County. L. Whitniore's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25429. 
Coarse ; light pink. Manchester, llillsborougli County. W. 8. Locke's (juarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26168. 
Medium; gray. Eumnej^, Grafton County. G. D. Kenaston's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26174. 
Fine; light gray. Sunapee, Sullivan County. C. E. Boyce'.s quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26421. 
— — Fine ; liglit gray. Farinington, Stratford County, liichardsou's (juarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26864. 
Biotite granite. Fine; light and dark gray. Two specimens. Filzwilliam Depot, 
Cheshire Conut3^ E. L. Augier's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25405. 

Fine ; dark gray. Fitzwilliam, Cheshire County. Centennial, 1876. 17488. 

Fine ; gray. Fitzwilliam, Cheshire County. E. Biodgett's ijuarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25835. 
Fine; gray. Manchester, Hillsborough County. (.Quarry of A. Bodwell & Son. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25860. 
P''ine; light gray. Manchester, Hillsborough County. II. Willey's i|uarry. 

Centennial, 1876. 2.5221. 
Fine; light gray. Manchester, Hillsborough County. Anioskeag County 

quarry. Centennial, 1876. 25220. 

Medium; light gray. Mason, Hillsborough County. J. Maxwell's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25235. 

Fine ; liglit gray. Mason, Hillsborough County. W. Uranum's quarry. Tentli 

Census, 1880. ^ 25236. 

Medium ; gray. 6-inch cube. Mason, Hillsborough County. Centennial, 1876. 

17424. 
Medium; light gray. Mason, Hillsborough Countj'. A. McDonald's (juarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25486. 
Fine; light gray. Milford, llillsl>orongh County. G. F. Parker's (jnariy. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 27082. 
Medium ; light gray. Milford, Hillsborough County. N. Merrill's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25234. 
Fine; gray. Milford, Hillsborough County. K. Carlton's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25230. 

Medium ; light gray. Milford, Hillsborough County. T. King's (|na»iy. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 252.32. 

Fine; gray. Milford, Hillsborough County. E. Hutchinson's <iuarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25233. 

Fine; light gr;iy. Enti(!ld, Grafton County. Quarry of P. H. Erects & Son. 

25765. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 565 

Biotite granite. C<i:iisf; Ii<j;Iii gray. Enfield, Oraftoii CJonnfy. D. L. Tiltoti'.s 

quarry. Tenth Census, 18nU. 254S1». 
Mcdiimi; gray. IMymontli, nraf'tou County. Blair's (|uarry. Tenth Census, 

1880. 25801. 
— — Coarse ; gray. Duiliam, Stall'ord County. J. S. Ahhott's <|uarrv. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 'J&IICk 

■ Medinni ; ])iukish gray. Raymond, Rockingliani County. Quarry of A. V. 

Keyes. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G17.5. 
MiLSCOvite biotite gneiss. Eiue; light gray, with garnets. Roxbury, Cheshire 
County. Keene Granitt; Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26ir)8. 

Flue; very light gray. Rox))nry, Cheshire County. Quarry of Nourse & 

Daftn. Tenth Census, 1880. 26159. 

Fine; gray. Peterborough, Hillsborough County. Peterborough Granite 

Works. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5229. 

]\Iedium ; gray. Fitzwilliani, ('heshire County. A. ITayden"s quarry, ♦eutli 

Csnsus, 1880. 2(;i27. 

Biotite epldote gneiss. Coarse; i)ink, green-s])otted. Lebano;i, Grafton County. 
C. Freeman's ([uarry. Tenth ('ensus, 1880. 25187. 

Coarse; light pink willi green spots. Lebanon, Gratton County. (Quarry of 

P. IL Fre.'ts A:. Son. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.57(31. 
Biotite gfteiss. Medium; dark gray. Suuapeo, Sullivan County. C. E. Boyee's 
(luarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(' 122. 

Porphyry conglomerate [quartz porphyry]. Jasi)er-rod ; lianl and compaet. Two 
specimens. One 4-lnch cube. One polished slab abont 13^ by 11 by 2 inches. 
Franconia, Grafton County. Tenth Census, 1880. 25523. 

NEW JERSEY'. 

Serpentine [ophiolite]. Blue-gray, with green spots. Near Montville, Morris 
County. J. J. Gordon's ([uarry. Tenth Census, 18S0. 26588. 

Limestone [marble]. Pink and white; coarsely crystalline; with large crystals of 
l)yroxen((). Near Danville, Warren County. Rose Crystal Marble Company. 
Tenth Census, 1880. 20079. 

Dolomite. Lower Silurian ; dark blue-gray ; crystalline; line; compact. Newton, 
Sussex County. Newton quarries. Tenth Census, 1880. 20943. 

Gneiss. Medium; greenish gray. Bloomingdale, Passaic County. M. .1. Ryerson's 
([uarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 20844. 

Mtklium ; greenish gray. Dover, Morris County. Delaware^ Lackawanna ami 

^^'es^ern Railroad Company. Tenth Census, 18~'0. 27051. 

Biotite gneiss. Coarse; ])ink. Near (Jharlot (eburgh, Passaic County. M. J. 

Ryerson's ((uarry. Tenth ("ensus, 1880. 20845. 
Hornblende granite (f) Coarse; gray. Near Moriistown, Morris Coiiuly. Tenth 

Census, 18i0. 20950. 
Diabase. Me«ozoic dark -gray ; fine and conijiact. Used for street pavements and 

general building. Jersey City, Hudson (Jounty. .1. K'dton's quarr> . Tenth 

Census, 1880. 20198. 

Mesozoic ; dark gray ; due and compact. Us(>(l mostly foi' street i)a\-emeiits. 

Weehawken, Hudson County. M. Moore's (|uarry. Tenth Census, 18.-0. 
20199. 

Meswzoic; modium; gray. West New York, Hudson County. Used chiefly for 

street pavements and road l>all.ast. D. Heft's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 
26200. 



56^ REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Diabase. IMcsozoic; fine; dark .ifray. Laiiilioi-tvillc, Ilnntmloii County. Uned as 
above. G. Bancroft's ({uarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G771. 

Mosozoic ; nicdiuui; gray. Rock Church, Hunterdon County. Used as above. 

,T. H. Murphy's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26971. 

Mosozoic ; very fine ; dark gray. Rocky Hill, Somerset County. Used as 

above. J. R. Howell's quarry. Tentli Census, 1880. 26843. 

Sandstone. Triassic; fine; brown. Two specimens. Belleville, Essex County. J. 
I>. I. Robinson's quarry. Tenth Census. 26251. 

Triassic ; medium; brown. Belleville, Essex County. Quarry of William J. 

Joyce. Tenth Census. 26256. 

Trias.sic ; fiue ; brown. Two specimens. Bellville, Essex County. Quarry of 

William J.Joyce. Tentb Census. 26257. 

Triassic; fine; brown. Belleville, lissex County. Quarry of A. Philip & 

Son. Tenth Census. 26258. 

'^iassic ; fine; brown. Bellville, Essex County. Quarry of A. Philip & 

Son. Tentb Census. 26259. 

Triassic; fiue; brown. Belleville, Essex County. Quarry of A. Philip & 

Son. Tenth Census. 26260. 

Triassic ; medium ; brown. Belleville, Essex County. .1. B. I. Robinson's 

Quarry. Tenth Census. 26252. 

Triassic; medium; browu. Newark, Essex County. Newark Quarry Com- 
pany. Teuth Census. 26253. 

Triassic; fine; brown. Newark, Essex County. Newark Quarry Company. 

Tenth Census. 26254. 

Triassic; fine; brown. Newark, Essex County. Quarry of Kocber Brothers. 

Tenth Census. 26255. 
Triassic; coar.se; brown. Orange Mountain, Essex County. Quarry of James 

Bell & Co. Tenth Census. 26740. 
Triassic; fine; brown. Avondale, Es.sex County. Belleville Stone Company. 

Teuth Census. 26694. 

Triassic; fine; brown. Pleasant Valley, West Orange, Essex County. F. W. 

Shrurap's quarry. Tenth Census. 26)737. 
— — Triassic ; fine ; very light brown. Pleasant Valley, West Orange, Essex County. 

F. W. Shrurap's quarry. Tentb Census, 18^0. 26)738. 
Triassic; fiue; brown. Pater.son, Passaic County. William P. Hartley's 

quarry. Tenth Census. 26586. 
Triassic; fine; brown. Little Falls, Passaic County. Quarry of J. C. & R. 

Stanley. Tenth Census. 26613. 
Triassic; fine; brown. Little F;.lls, Pas.saic County. Quarry of J. C. & R- 

Stanley. Tenth Census. 26614. 
Triassic ; fine ; light brown. Little Falls, Passaic County. Quarry of J. C. & 

R. Stanley. Tenth Census. 26615. 
Triassic; fine; gray. Little Falls, Passaic County. Quarry of J. C. & R. 

Stanley. Tenth Census. 26616. 
Triassic; fine ; French gray. Martiuville, Somerset County. Quarry of Will- 
iam E. Battle & Bro. Teuth Census. 26739. 
Triassic; fine; dark blnegray. Milford, Hunterdon County. Smith Clark's 

quarry. Tenth Census. 26768. 
Triassic; coarse; light colored. Stockton, Hunterdon County. Peter Best's 

quarry. Tenth Census. 26769. 



BUILDING A\D ORXAMEXTAL STONES. 567 

Sandstone. Triassic ; coarse ; li.uhl colored. Sloekloii, Ilniitenlou County. J. 

Sillery's (j[Uiii'ry. Tenth Ceii.sus. ~()T7lt. 
Triassic; medium; light brown. Greeusburgh, Mercer County. C^uarryofL. 

Chirk &Bro. Tenth Census. 2G799. 
Triassic; medium; light Inown. Greeusburgh, Mercer County. Greensburgli 

Granite and Freestone Company. Tenth Census. 26S00. 
Triassic; medium; brown. Greensburgh, Mercer County, tjluairy of Chas. 

Keeler»fcSon. Tenth Ccn.sus. 2G801. 
Triassic; l)bie-blai'k ; line and (•()ni]>aet. Near WoodsviUe, Mercer (bounty. 

Quarry of .T. Ij. IJorongJis iV- Son. Tenth Census. 2()8"3;5. 

Triassic; liglit Idne-gray : line; very eompact. l^rinceton, Mercer County. 

Thos. Jewell's (]uarry. Tenth Census. 'iBSl-?. 

Lower Silurian; dark blue-gray; very line and compact. C^uaiiy\ille, Sus- 

sex Ctninty. Thos. .L Carr's (luariy. Tenth Census. 27(171, 

Lower Silurian ; dark blue-gray ; line and compact. Quarryville, Sussex 

County. Thonnis J. Carr's quarry. Tenth Census. 27072. 

Greenish; coarse; com[>act. Near Uanville, Warren County. E. Ibilgin's 

(juarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2r)r)S7. 
Conglomerate. Dark reddish-l)ro\vn and white mottled; coarse; very compact 

and hard. Boonton, Morris County. Tenth Census, 1880. 270r)2. 
Coarse; ferrugiin)us. Near May's Landing, Atlantic County. Tenth Census, 

1880. 2fi84(). 

Dark reddish-brown aTul white mottled ; coarse ; very compact and hard. Near 

Jlorristown, Morris County. Tenth Census, 1880. 26057. 
Slate. Black. Princeton, Mercer County. Quarry of S.Margerum. Tenth Cen- 
sus, 18W0. 2t;76;5. 

NEW MEXICO. 

Gypsum. White; dark spotted. Bernalillo(?), Bernalillo County. J. S. P\ Batchen, 

l-'-:?. 28.586. 
Pumice. Coarse; red. Us(!d to some extent for purposes of rough construction. 

From (luarries .3 miles south of Santa Fe, Santa V6 Ctmnty. Santa F6 quany. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26231. 

Rhyolite tuff. Light colored ; soft and porous. Santa Fe, Santa Fe' County. Tenth 
Census, 1880. 2623:J. 

Sandstone. Coarse; light colored. Near Sania Fe, Santa F6 County. Santa V6 
quarry. Tenth Census, 18<-~'0. 2(j2;>]. 

Coarse; light reddisli-brown. Santa Fe, Santa Fe County. Santa Fe ouarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2f)2:52. 

- Fine; reddish brown. Near Las Vegas Hot Springs, San Miguel County. 

John S. F. Bafchen, 188:5. 28580. 

Fine; light red and white striped. Near Las Vegas Hot Sjjrings, San Miguel 

County. .John S. F. Batchen, 1883. 28582. 

Very light gray ; tiiu' and compact. Near Las Vegas Hot Springs, San Miguel 

County. John S. F. Batclien, 1883. 28583. 

Fine; light reddish-brown. Near Las Vegas Hot Springs, San Migu(d Couury. 

John S. F. Batchen, 1883. 28584. 

Dull red; frialde. Near Albuquenim;, Valencia County. El Kita <iuarry. 

John S. F. Batchen, 1884. 35570. 



5G8 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

XEW yoKK. 

Ophiolite [verdantique marble]. Coarsely granular; green and white speckled; 
takes a higli polish; commercially known as ophite marble. Port Henry, Eysex 
County. Quarries of Burlington Manufacturing Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 
2C,6r2. 

Serpentine [ophiolite. Verdantiqne marble]. Green and white speckled; coarsely 
granular. Moriali, Essex County. Centennial, 1876. 1746.5. 

Dolomite [marble]. Archaean; white; coarsely crystalline. Tuckahoe, Westchester 
County. J. M. Masterton's fjTiarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26444. 

Archoean ; white; coarsely crystalline. Tuckahoe, Westchester County. J. M. 

Masterton's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2644.3. 

Archaean; white; coarsely crystalline. Tuckahoe, Westchester County. Tuck- 

ahoe Marble Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26414. 

Archtean ; white; coarsely crystalline. Tuckahoe, Westchester County. Tuck- 

ahoe Marble Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26413. 

Archaean; white; very coarsely crystalline. Pleasautville, Westchester 

County. Snow Flake Marble Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26522. 

Lower Silurian ; white; coarsely crj^stalline. Sing Sing, Westchester County. 

Colonel Clark, 1880. 2520;-). 

Lower Silurian; white; crystalline. Sing Sing, Westchesler County. Tenth 

Censns, 1880. 25011. 

Archaean; pure white; crystalline. South Dover, Dutchess County. E. A. 

Preston's (juarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26506. 
Limestone [marble] Gray, with pink spots ; compact; fossiliferous. Used for fnr- 
niture and interior decoi-ativc work. Chazy, Clinton County. Tenth Census, 
1880. 26925. 

Lower Silurian; dark, red spotted; compact; fossiliferous. Used for furni- 

ture and interior decorations. Near Plattsburgh, Clinton County. Burling- 
ton Manufacturing Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26671. 

Upper Silurian ; gray, with large fossils. Greensport, Columbia County. F. 

W. Jones's quarry. Tenth Census, 1 880. 26074. 

"Warwick marble;" red mottled; very coarsely crystalline. 6 by 6 by 1 

inch. Orange County. United States General Land Ofiice, 1882. 27258. 
Magnesian limestone [marble]. Lower Silurian; nearly black; fossiliferous. 
Near Saratoga, Saratoga County. Prince Wing's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 
26089. 

Lower Silurian; black; very line and compact. South Glens Falls, Saratoga 

County. Thomas Reynolds's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26112. 

Archaean; blue-gray; coarsely crystalline. Near Gouvernenr, Saint Lawrence 

County. Gouvernenr Marble Company. Tenth Census, 18S0. 26942. 

Calcareous dolomite [marble]. Upper Silurian; gray; fossiliferous. Used in the 
construction of Lenox Library building. New York City. Lockport, Niagara 
Connty. R. & J. Carpenter's quarry. Tenth Censns, 1880. 2(5506. 

Limestone. Lower Silurian; mottled blue-gray; compact. Sandy Hill, Washing- 
ton County. Sandy Hill quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2()828. 

Lower Silurian ; gray; semi-crystalline. Lowville, Lewis County. L.H.Car- 

ter's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26980. 

Devonian; dark gray ; fossiliferous. Syracuse, Onondaga County. Centennial. 

1876. 17471. 

Devonian; light drab; fossiliferous. Williamsville, Erie County. J. B. Young's 

quarry. Tenth Censns, 1880. 26622. 



BUII.DING AND OUNAMENTAL STONES. 569 

Liinestoue. l)<'v<)iiiaii ; ,i;r;iy: liii(My (ossilifci-otis; (•(Miipiicl. W'illiaiii.svillo, ¥jv\e 
County. W. l"o,:^'k'saiijfer's (|ii;MTy. T<;ntli Cciiisiis, 18r>(i. 2()(i'i".i. 

Magnesian limestone. I^DWorSiluriau ; dark lilne-gray ; fossiliferons. South Gluim 
Fallts, Saratoga County. Quarry of Tlioiuas Reyuolils & Co. Tenth Census, 
lt:'80. 2f)lll. 

Lower Silurian ; (hii'lc hhio-nray ; couipacL Near Crown Point, Essex County. 

Frank ('huk's (lutirry. Tentli Census, 1880. 2Ct\-2:\. 

Lower Silurian; nearly hlaek; compact. Willshorough l^iint, Essex County. 

Ceuteuuial, 187(). irr.lO. 

Lower Silurian ; fine; dark gray; nearly black. Willsborough, Essex County. 

Lake Chaniplaiu Quarry Company. Tenth Census, 1880, ^tJl'iS. 

Lower Silurian ; dark drab ; iossiliftrous. Three Mile Bay, Jefterson County. 

O. Fisli's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(3279. 

Lower Silurian; gray; finely fossililerons ; compact. Near Prescot, Onc^ida 

County. Evan T. Thona's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G:W9. 

Lower PiiJurian ; fine; dark gray; nearly black. Amsterdam, Montgomery 

County. James Griswold's ([uarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 20238. 

Lower Silurian; dark ijray ; fossiliferons. Amsterdam, Montgomery County. 

D. C. & N. Hewitt's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 262:59. 

Lower Silurian ; dark gray ; fossiliferons. Canajoharie, Montgomery County. 

Sharper's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G240. 

Upper Siluri.an ; fine; black; compact. Schoharie, Schoharie County. Z. 

Brown's (piarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2()310. 

Devonian; fine; dark gray; compact. Cobleskill, Schoharie County. Quarry 

of Keilly & Scanlan. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.")909. 

Ujjper Silurian; fine; dark gray; nearly black. Howe's Cave, Scholiarie 

County. Howe's Cave Associafion. DMith Census, 1880. 2(>149. 

Uppt!r Silurian ; fiiu' ; blade. Howe's Cave, Schoharie County. Howe's Cave 

Association. Tenth Census, 1880. 2ri841. 

Upper Silurian ; fine; dark gray; nearly black. Howe's Cave, Schoharie County. 

Howe's Cave Lime and Cement Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25908. 

Devonian; dark gray ; fine and compact. Springfield Centre, Otsego County. 

McCabo quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2r)76;]. 

Devonian; gr.'iy ; compact: Ibssiliferous. Onondaga, Onondaga County. 

Quarry of Hughes Bros. & Co. Tenth Census, 18.S0. 26372. 

Devonian; gray; comp.act ; fossiliferons. Fairmont, Onondaga County. .J. 

Connor's (juarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 263.")4. 

Devonian; gray; semi-crystalline. Indian Reservation, Onondaga County. 

Adam Nie's ([uarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27069. 

Devonian; dark gray ; fine and compact. Auburn, Cayuga County. Quarry 

of Goodrich iV. Son. Tenth Census, 1880. 26389. 

Devonian; nearly black ; line and compact. Union Springs, Cayuga County. 

A. B. Miles's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26402. 

Devonian: nearly black; fnio and compact. Waterloo, Seneca County. L. 

'I'homas's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26430. 

Devonian ; iK-a-rly lilack ; line and comi)act. Waterloo, Seneca County. J. 

Emmett's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 264:$1. 

Devonian; dark gray; fine; compact. Le Roy, Genesee County. L. D. 

Howell's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26r)ll. 

Devonian; dark mottled; compact. Bulfalo, Eric County. J. B. Youn<rs 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1M80. Two spc^cimens. 26621. 



570 RKPORT ONT NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1S8C. 

Magnesiaii linieatone. liluo-gniy ; iiuo ; coiiipuct. Kingston, Ulster County. 

Quarry of Koon &, Madchiii. Tenth Census, 1880. 2GG17. 
Dolomite. Upper Silurian ; darkdral); fine; compact. Rocliester, Monroe County, 

J. B. Pike's quarry. Tenth Census, It^SO. 2G454. 
Calcareous dolomite. Upper Silurian; drab; finely Ibssiliferons. I^ocl^port, Ni- 

a,irara County. R. & J. Carpenter's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(mI:?. 
Biotite granite. Fine; light gray. G.arrison, Putnam County. A. C. King's quarry. 

A. C. King, 1883. 27.^.31. 
Hornblende mica granite. Coarse ; bright red. Grindstone Island, Jel'ferson 
County. E. Forsyth's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27024. 

NOTK. — Two large beautiful iiillarsof this stoni^ are in the senate cham- 
ber of tlie capitol building at Albany, N. Y. 
Hornblende gneiss. Medium; dark gray. Glenville, near Tarry town, Westchester 

County. Sackett's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(i4r)5. 
Biotite gneiss. Medium; banded gray and white. Near Hastings, Westchester 

County. Quarry of Munson & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 2tir)21. 
Gneiss. Coarse; gi'cenish gray. SufFern, Rockland County. Copeland quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 27050. 
Norite. Coarse; dark greenish gray, ■with blue irridesccut spots. Quarries of the 
An Sable Granite Company, Keeseville. C. D. Walcott, 1887. 38740. 

This stone, -which is known commercially as "Au Sable granite," con- 
sists essentially of the mineral labi-adorite and hypersthene. When polished 
the bluisli iridescence from the labradorite is very noticeable. It is a 
beautiful stone for polished columns and pilasters. 
Sandstone. Devonian ; brown ; very tine and compact. Roxbury, Delaware Conn l y. 
Quarry of Robinson & Soop. Tenth Census, 1880. 25(52(5. 

Devonian ; brown; very fine and comi)act. Eoxhury, Delaware County. B.J}. 

Boughton's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5627. 

Devonian ; gray ; fine and compact. Margarettville, Delaware County. Quariy 

of Grant Bros. Tenth Census, 1880. 25(528, 

Devonian; two specimens; brownish-gray and olive-tinted; fine and compact, 

Phoenicia, Ulster County. J. L. McGrath's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 
25638. 

Devonian ; brownish gray ; fine and compact. Snider Hollow, Ulslm- (Jounty. 

Quarry of Jamieson Bros. Tenth Census, 1880, 25639. 

Devonian; dark blue-gr \ , fine and compact. Phoenicia, Ulster County. 

Quarry of Delemater A Bouse. Tenth Census, 1880, 25640. 

Devonian; dark blue-gray ; fine and compact. Phoenicia, Ulster County. J. 

McGrath's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880, 25641. 

Devonian; dark blue-gray; line and compact. Cold Brook Hollow, Ulster 

County. Quarryof Lane &. Co. Tenth Census, 1880, 25670. 

Devoni;i-u ; dark blue-gray ; fine ami compact. Near Boiceville, Ulster County. 

Quarry of Hewitt Boice. Tenth Census, 1880. 25671. 

Devonian ; dark blue-gray ; fine ;ind compact. Broadhead's Biidge, Ulster 

County. Quarry of Cornish & Ro wo. Tenth Census, 1880. 25(i7>. 

Devonian; dark blue-gray; fine and compact. Broadhead's Bridge, Ulster 

County. Quarry of W.Davis. Tenth Census, 1880, 2.'>673. 
Devonian ; dark blue-gray ; fine and compact. Broadhead's Bridge, Ulster 

County. Quarry of Hemgerford & Boic(>. Tenth Census, 1880. 25(>74, 
Devonian; dark blue-gray ; fine and compact. Stony Hollow, Ulster County, 

Sweeney's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25704. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 571 

Sandstone. Dovoiiiuii ; djirk ))lii('-,i;ray ; iiiic niid cotiiickI . AX'oodstock, I'islcr 
County. N. W()lv(!ii'is (|n;nry. Teiidi Census, IS-^O. Two spcciiiii'ns. "i.wfjW. 

Devonian; dark blue-gray ; lino and conijKu.t,. Ha.llilian's Tlill, Ulster Counly. 

Quarry of Lealiey &. Co. Tenth Census, IH.-O. '2'uii'.). 

Devonian; dark blue-gray ; line and compact. Higliwoods Hi]], Ulster County. 

Quarry of Green & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. •27>7i\iK 

Devonian; dark blue-gray; fine and compact. West Hurley, Ulster Counly. 

L. Lawson's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. S'jTtil. 

Devonian; dark blue-gray ; line and compact. Saw Kill, Ulster C!ounty. D. 

Henderson's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. '2r)84','. 

Devonian; very darlc bluish-drab; tine and compact. Steency Kill, Ulster 

County. K. Dunn's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2r)84:>. 

Devonian; blue-gray; line and compact. Bristol Hill, Ulster County. T. 

Grant's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2()1.^)0. 

Devonian; dark l)lue-gray ; tine and c^onipact. Morgan Hill, Ulster County. 

.1. Scully's (juarry. T<!nth Census, 1880. 'J.V'M. 

Devonian; dark blue-gray; line and compact. Quarryville, Ulster County. 

Quarry of Mason & Mack. Tenth Census, 1880. •2')^2C). 

Devonian; dark bluo-gray ; line and compact. Quarryville, Uistei- (Ounty. 

Quarry of Cunningham Bros. Tenth Census, 1880. 'J.'jO^T. 

Devonian; blue-gray ; fine and comi>act. Quarryville, Ulster County. Quarry 

of Peter Daly & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 20928. 

Devonian ; blue-gray ; fine and comjjact. Near Iluntersland, Schoharie County. 

Middloburgh Bluestone Company. Tenth Ceu.sus, 1880. 2(i]0(). 

Lower Silurian ; compact; reddiidi. Hammond, Saint Lawrence County. .1. 

Fiunegan's quarry. Tenth Census, ISS). 2(127.'^. 

Upper Silurian ; fine; light gray. Cajiulen, Oni'ida County. N. Beebe's(]na-rrj\ 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2(;280. 

Upper Silurian; fine; light reddish-brown. Albion, Orleans County. G. 

Brady's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(>4'JG. 

Upper Silurian ; fine ; light red<lisli-lu-own. vVlbiou, Orleans County. All)i(ni 

and Medina Sandstone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G4D7. 

Upper Silurian ; line ; light reddish-brown. Hulberton, Orleans County. A. J. 

Squires's (luarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G498. 

Upper Silurian ; fine; very light reddish-brown. Medina, Orleans Coin)(y. A. 

J. McCormick's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2lwl4. 

Fine; very light reddish brown. Hulberton, Orleans County. Quarry of 

O'Brien & O'Reilly. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G.'')ir). 

Upper Silurian; line; light colored. Medina, Orleans County. Quarry ot 

Kearney, Barret t A. Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(ir)lG. 

Upper Silurian ; linc^ ; light colcu'cd. Medina, Orleans County. ]. llolloway's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G.^>18. 

Upper Silurian ; fine; light reddish-brown. Medina, Orleans County. P. IId- 

ran's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2()r)l'.) 

Upper Silurian ; fine; very light gray. Mc<Iina, Orleans County. P. Il(U'au's 

quarry. Tmith Census, 1880. 2Gr)20. 

Upper Silurian. 12-inch cube. Albion, Orleans County. Quairy of G. S. Brady 

& Co. Gilberts. Brady, 1884. iifiTO.'). 

Devonian ; fine ; gray. Corning, Steuben County. L. Field's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 2G712. 



572 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Sandstone. Devouiau ; fine ; blue-gray. Pultney, Steuben County. W. Wagener's 
quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G761. 

Devonian; fine; bine-gray. Atwater, Cayuga County. J. G. Baeger's quarry 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26401. 

Upper Silurian ; reddish brown ; medium. Albion, Orleans County. G. Brady's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26494. 

Upper Silurian; fine; reddish brown. Albion, Orleans County. G.Brady's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 264%. 

Upper Silurian ; fine ; light gray. lOinch cube. Lockport, Niagara County. 

C.Whitmore's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27341. 

Upper Silurian; fine; light colored. Lockport, Niagara County. C. Whit- 

more's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26517. 

Devonian ; very dark drab and dark bine-gray ; fine and compact. Two speci- 

mens. Otsego Lake, Otsego County. J. Wood's quarry. Tenth Census* 
1880. 25762, 

Devonian; fine ; bine-gray. Oneonto, Otsego County. L. Orr's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26708. 

Triassic ; medium ; reddish brown. Near Nyack, Rockland County. N. Puff's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26590. 

Devonian ; fine ; dark blue-gray. Near West Brookville, Sullivan County. 

West Brockville quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26618. 

Devonian ; fine; dark blue-gray. Near West Brookville, Sullivan County. 

West Brockville quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26619. 

Devonian; fine; gi'ay. Two specimens. Near Liberty, Sullivan County. J. 

J. Fuller's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26432. 

Devonian; fine; light gray. Belfast, Allegany County. .T.Lang's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26749. 

Devonian; fine; dark drab. Guilford Centre, Chenango County. L. W. 

Smith's quarry Tenth Census, 1880. 26750. 

Devonian; fine; gray. Guilford, Chenango County. Mrs. W. W. Davis's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26751. 

Devonian ; fine ; blue-gray. Trumansburgh, Tompkins County. Quarry of Du- 

mont & Cusic. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(;760. 

Devonian ; fine; gray. Ithaca, Tompkins County. McCluno's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1860. 26734. 

Devonian; fine; light gray. Watkius Glen, Schuyler County. Northern Cen- 

tral Railroad Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26736. 

Devonian; blue-gray; fine and compact. Near Reedsvilk>, Albany County. 

E. Udell's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26151. 

I^iOAver Silurian; dark blue-gray ; fine .and compact. Schenectady, Schenec- 

tady County. Upper Aqncduct Quarry Comi>any. Tenth Census, 1880. 2607.5. 
Fine ; blue-gray. Olean, Cattaraugus County. Milo Cook's cpiarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26651. 
Quartzite. Cambrian ; light colored ; fine and compact. Fort Ann, Washington 
(bounty. .1. White's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5946. 

Potsdam ; compact ; light red. Near Potsdam, Saint Lawrence County. Pots- 

dam quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26268. 
Argillaceous sandstone. Devonian ; fine ; blue-gray. Warsaw, Wyoming County. 

Quarry of Morris & Son. Tenth Census, 1880. 26650. 
Slate. Purple. Middle Granville, Washington County. Albany Slate Company. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5945. 



HUILDINCr ANJ^ OKNAiMENTAL STONE.S, 573 

Slate. Grtcii. 4 l»y 4 l>.V '•'> inches, llaiuptoii, W;i.sliiiiu,tnn County. Qnany of D. 
Williiuiis cV P>iothor.s. Tenth Census, ItiSU. •J5'J7:'. 

Ked. 4 by 4 by U inches. Hampton, Washington County. Qaarry ol:"L. J. 

Wan-en. T<'n*h Census, 1880. 25974. 

Green. 4 by 4 by '2^ inches. Ilaniptou, Washington County. New England 

Quarry Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 259715. 

I'urple. 4 )>y 4 by 1} inches. Hampton, Washington County. New England 

Quarry Company. Tentli Census, 1880. 25977. 

Dull red. 4 by 4 by 1^ inches. Middle Granville, Washington County. Mid- 
dle Granville (^)nurry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25978. 

Bright red. 4 l)y 4 by 1 inch. Granville, Washington County. Tenth Cen- 

sus. 2.5979. 

Bright red. 4 by 4 by 1 inch. Granville, Washington County. Nortli Bend 

Quarry Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25980. 

Dull, reddish brown. 4 by 4 by 1^ inches. Middle Granville, Washington 

County. Penrliyn Slate Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5981. 

Dull, reddish brown. 4 by 4 bj' II inches. Middle Granvill',-, Washington 

County. Penrhyn Slate Conii)any. Tenth Census, 1880. 25982. 

Greenish. 4 by 4 by 1 inch. Middle Granville, Washington County. Penrhyn 

Slate Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 2598;i. 

Greenisb, pnrjile and blue-black. Six specimens. Slabs 8 inches square. Cen- 

tennial, 187G. 2G0;;2. 

Grayish brown. 4 by 15 by 2 inclu;s, Salem, Washington County. Salem Slate 

Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(J052. 

Greenish. Slab 8 inches square, and 4 by 4 by 1 inch. Two specimens. Gran- 

ville, Washington County. Warren Slate Company. Centennial, 187fi. 
27 001. 

Calcareous sandstone. Devonian ; line ; very light gray. Two specimens. Caa- 
ni.steo, Steuben County. J. Mullen's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2l)70(j. 

Devonian; line; blue-gray. Covert, Seneca County. C. O. Ogden's (piarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2G7\i'y. 

NOKTU C.\i:()LINA. 

Steatite. Fine,; eomiia<;t ; light greenish gray. Used for '• white earth " and French 
chalk. Nantahalah, Swain County. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G137. 

Fine comi)act ; light greenish gray. Used as above. Seven n\iles northeast of 

Murphy, Cherokee County. W. C. Kerr, 1883. 27G54. 

Steatite [soapstone]. Coar.so ; compact; dark gray. Near Greeusborough, Guil- 
ford County. W. C. Kerr, 1883. 27(;G2. 

Coarse; compact; blue-gray. Ball Mountain, Ashe County. J. Hardin's 

quarry. J. B. Colvan, 1883. 281(;8. 

Fine; light blue-gray ; schistose. Myatt's Mill, Wake County. (Through W. 

S. Yates.) 1884. 3G853. 

Coarse; poious; blue-gray. Alaniaiico County. W. C. Kerr, 1887. 27GG4. 

Limestone [marble]. Dark blue-gray ; crystalline. Cherokee County. :>G142. 
Aj(diiean ; light pink ; greenish spots ; crystalline. 7^ by G by 2 inches. Chero- 
kee County. 27822. 

Archaian ; blue-gray; cry.stalline. Near Murphy, Cherokee County. Valley 

River Mining Company. W. II. Kerr, 1883. 27G55. 



574 KEPOKT OX NATIONAL MLKSEUM, 1886. 

Limestone [marble]. Arcbioan ; blnc-gr;iy ; ci yslulliiie. Valley Town, Cherokee 
Comity. tS. Whittaker's quarry. W. H. Kerr, 1883. '^7650. 

Ardiaeau ; liglit blue-gray; tiDoIy crystalline. Nottla, Cliciokio Counly. 

Centennial, lS7(i. 1751"^. 

Archajan ; dark gray; crystalline. Near Valley Town, Cberokec County. T. 

Young's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27658. 

Archrean ; light pink; finely crystalline. Two specimens. Ked Marble Gap, 

Macon County. W. H. Kerr, 1883. 27659. 

Archc'ean ; light pink, with greenish mottling; crystalline. Nantahalah, 

Swain County. Centennial, 1876. 17513. 
Siliceous dolomite. Archtean ; red : compact. Warm Springs, Madison County. 

AV. C. Kerj', 1883. 27605. 
Magnesian limestone. Archjeau ; dark mottled; line; compact. Warm Springs, 

INIadison County. Tenth Census, 1880. 27604. 
Shell limestone. Eocene; coarse; cellular. 12-inch cube. New Berne, Craven 
County. Centennial, 1876. 2-5345. 

Eocene; coarse; cellular. New IJcrno, Craven County. Tenth Census, 1880. 

27624. 

Eocene; light colored; cellular. Rocky Point, Pender County. Quarry of 

French Brothers. Tenth Census, 1880. 27625. 
Limestone. Archaean ; blue-gray ; crystalline. Near Murphy, Cherokee County. 
Valley River Mining Company. W. H. Kerr, 1883. 27655. 

Biotite granite. Medium ; pink. Louisburgh, Franklin County. Colonel Rutin's 
quarry. W. C. Kerr, 1883. 27633. 

Fine ; ]tinkish gray. Louisburgh, Franklin Ccuinty. W. C. Kerr, 1883. 27600. 

Medium; pink. Cedar Rock, Franklin County. W.T.King's quarry. W. H. 

Kerr, 1883. 27636. 

Coarse; porphyritic; pink and yellowish spotted. Contentnea Creek, Wilson 

. County. W. H. Kerr, 1883. 27626. 

Fine ; light gray. Nine miles south of Warrenton, Warren County. J. S. 

Smith's (juarry. W. IT. Kerr, 1883. 27649. 

Medium; gray. Lexington, Davidson County. C. II. Scott, 1883. 27594. 

Medium; gray. Lexington, Davidson County. C. H. Scott, 1883. 27596. 

Fine; gray. Alamance County. C. H. Scott, 1883. 27597. 

Fine; gray. Alamance County. C.H.Scott, 1883. 27599. 

Fine; light gray. Seven miles below Ashevillo, Buncombe County. W. C. 

Kerr, 1883. 27606. 

Medium; gray. Oxford, Granville County. .J. II. Horner's quarry. W.C.Kerr, 

1883. 27632. 

Coarse; light gray. Mount Airy, Surry County. R. S. Gilmer's quarry. W. 

H. Kerr, 1883. 27613. 

Coarse; gray. Near Charlotte, Mccklcnburgh County. W. I'hifer's quarry. 

W. C. Kerr, 1883. 27589. 

Medium ; gray. Near Charlotte, ]\Ieckleuburgli County. W. C. Kerr, 1883- 

27590. 

Medium ; gray. Charlotte, Mecklenburgh County. W. C. Kerr, 1883. 27591. 

Coarse; gray. Davidson College, Mecklenburgh County. L. Pott's (luarry. 

W. PI. Kerr, 1883. 27644. 

Fine; gray. Near Gastouia,, Gaston County. Quarry of Holland it Paysour. 

W. II. Kerr, 1880. 27()22. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. i)i[) 

Biotite granite. Fiiio; liglil: gray. Near (iastouia,, Clashni (Nmnty. J. HaAskin's 
quarry. W. H. Kerr, iWl. 27G-2L 

Coarse; gray. Three miles iiorUi of Gariljaldi, (jaston County. C. L. Hope's 

quarry. W. 11. Kerr, 18-0. ^7()20. 

Medium; light gray. Near Winston, F(U-syth County. IMrs. Charles's (juarry. 

W. H. Kerr, 1883. 27614. 

Medium; greenish gray. Buck Horn Falls, ITarnelt County. Quarry of Hick 

& Lobdell. W. H. Kerr, 1883. 27(353. 

Fine; gray. Mooresvilie, Iredell Comity. .1. C. llargia.ve's (juarry. W. H. 

Kerr, 1883. 2761t;. 

Coarse; indistinctly ]iorphyritie ; gray. Mount Monrne, Iredell County, .f. 

U. Reid's quarry. W. II. Kerr, 1883. 27G45. 

Medium; gray. Greensborough, Guilford County. C.ll. Scott, 1883. 27629. 

Medium; gray. Greensborough, Guilford County. C. IT. Scott, 188:?. 27G30. 

Coarse; greenish with largo porphyritie crystals of piukish felds[)ar. llock- 

iugham, Itichmoud County. W. C. Kerr, 1883. 27(il0. 

Coarsely porphyritie ; i)iukish aud olive-greeu. Two and a half inili's west of 

Rockingham, Richmond Couuty. Cheraw and Chester Railroad. W. C. Kerr, 
1883. 27G40. 

Gray ; coarsely porphyritie, witli light pink feldspars. Foot cube. Auson 

Couuty. Centenni.al, 1S7(). 25.^)09. 

Muscovite granite. Fine; light gray. Waneutou, Warren County. N. M. N(U'- 
wood's quarry. W. II. Kerr, 1883. 27()48. 

Granite. Medium; very light ]>ink. Near Salisbury, Rowan County. W.C.Kerr, 
1883. 27G01. 

Medium; very light gray. Salisbury, Rowau County. J. J. Bassiugo'squarry. 

W. H. Kerr, 1883. 27G15. 

Medium ; very light piukish gray. Ten miks south of Salisbury, Rowan 

Couuty. J. J. Bassingo's quarry. W. II. Kerr, 1880. 27G17. 

Fine; pink. Hillsborough, Orange County. A. W. Graliam's (piarry. W. C. 

Kerr, 1883. 27G31. 
Biotite miiscovite granite. Medium; light pinkish gray. Nineteen miles south of 

Salisbury, Rowan County. J. J. Bassingo's (juarry. W. II. Kerr, 1883. 27G1G. 
Hornblende biotite granite. Coarse; gray with lightgreen spots. Near Cbarlolte, 

Jleckleuburgh Couuty. T. Graham's (piarry. W.C.Kerr, 1S83. 27588. 

Biotite gneiss. Medium ; gray. Near Shelby, Cleveland Couuty. C. Hendrick's 
quarry. W. IT. Kerr, 1880. 27G23. 

Gray; imrphyritic. Henry's Station, McDowell County. Western North Car- 

olina Railroad. W. H. Kerr, 1883. 27637. 

Coarse; gray. Hickory, Caldwell County. G. W. Hari>er's (puirry. W. H. 

Kerr, 1883. 27641. 

Coarse; pinkish gray. Three and a half miles north of Toisnol, Wilson 

County. P. Liuehan's (piarry. W. H. Kerr, 1883. 27627. 

Medium; dark gray. Henderson, Vance County. W. C. Kerr, 1. "-83. 27603. 

Very coarse; ; iiglitgreenisli gray. Near Danbnry, Slokes County. W. H. Kerr, 

1833. 27G12. ' 

Medium; dark gray. Poison S[>rings, Iredell County. J. Linstei's (|uarry. 

■W. H. Kerr, 1883. 27G42. 

Fine; light gray. Rahngh, Wake Couuty. State quarric's. W. C. Kerr, 1883. 

, 27G00. 



576 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, lH8li. 

Biotite gneiss. Fine; light gray. Near Rtileigli, Wake Comity. W. C. Kerr, 1883. 
29G39. 

Coarse; light gra-y ; iudiKtiiictly porphyritic. Ten miles uortli of Greens- 

borough, Guilford County. C. II. Scott, 1883. 27593. 

Medium ; light gray. Jamestown, Guilford County. C. TI. Scott, 1883. 27G11. 

Gneiss. Fine; piulc. Concord, Cabarrus County. AV. II. Kerr, 1880. 27019. 
Hornblende biotite gneiss. Medium ; dark gray. Near Alexander, Buncombe 

County. W. C. Kerr, 1883. 27C07. 

Medium ; dark gray. Davidson College, Meckleuburgli County. D. Sloun's 

quarry. W. H. Kerr, 1883. 27(543. 
Gneiss. Fine; red and light mottled. Mooresville, Iredell County. Quarry of 

McNeilly & McPherson. W. H. Kerr, 1883. 27(547. 
Hornblende gneiss. Fine; light greenish gray. Morgan ton Dciiot, Burke County. 

Avery's quarry. W. II. Kerr, 1883. 27G39. 
Quartz porphyry [leopardite]. White; black spotted ; 4 by 4 by 1^ inches. Near 

Charlotte, Meckleuburgh County. W. J. Yates quarry. Teuth Census, 1880. 25840. 

Nearly white with dark spots. Charlotte, Mecklenburgh County. Centennial 

1876. 10770. 

These porphyries take the popular name " leojiardite" from their spot- 
ted appearance. In some cases the coloring material instead of being 
arranged in oval spots takes most delicate dendritic or fern-like forms. 
They are very hard and consequently' used only lor ])nrpose8 of rough con- 
struction. 
Sandstone. Triassic ; tine: reddish brown. Wadesborough, Anson County. W. C. 
Kerr, 1883. 27608. 

Triassic; fine; light brown. Sanford, Moore County. J. W. Scott's quarry. 

W. H. Kerr, 1883. 27634. 

Triassic; lino; light brown. Egypt, Chatham County. J. Legroves's quarry. 

W. H. Kerr, 1883. 27635. 

Triassic; light colored; medium. Durham, Durham County. Traj» quarry 

W. C. Kerr, 1883. 27651. 

Triassic; fine; reddish brown. Near Durham, Durham County. Quarry of 

Needham & McPhersou. W. C. Kerr, 1883. 27652. 

Triassic; line; very light hrown. Near Morris\ille, Wake Couuty. Gift of 

the county through W. S. Yeatcs, 1884. 36852. 

Fiue ; gray ; 10-iuch cube. Ealeigh, Wake County. Ceutcuulal 1876. 17475. 



Limestone. Lower Silurian; dark gray. 12 by 13 by 7 inches. Centennial, 1876. 
25198. 

Lower Siluriau ; dark gray. 14 by 14 by 8 inches. Centennial, 1876. 25199. 

Devouian ; drah ; fine; compact. Kelley's Island, Erie County. Quarry of 

Kelley & Co. Teuth Census, 1880. 26284. 

Devonian. Bellefontaine, Logan County. Quarry of Angel, Miller & Co. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 27162. 

Carboniferous; drab; fine; compact. Two specimens. Bellaire, Belmont 

County. Samuel Rowe's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25613. 

Upper Silurian ; light colored. 12-inch cube. Covington, Miami Qounty. T. 

W. Butt's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27200. 

Upper Siluriau ; dark ir.ottlcd ; tine grained. Two specimens. Pi<[ua, Miami 

Couuty. Quarry of 11. Clark & Sou. Tenth Census, 1880. 25317. 



nUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 577 

Liinestone Carltoiiifeious; diirk ; (;<)iu[>act ; l'os8iliierotis. Zaiicsvillc, Muskiuguiu 
County. Philip Moran's (jiiarry. Teuth Census, 1^80. 25535. 

Sub-Cai-bouiferous; li-^ht colored ; liuo ; compact. Two spccimous. Newtoii- 

ville, Muskingum County. T. B. Townsend's quarry. Teuth Census, lb80. 
'25536. 

Upper Silurian ; drab ; fine and compact ; pyritiferoiis. Two specimoun. Near 

Xouia, Greene County. W. McDonald's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. '253.57. 

Ui>per Silurian; light colored; lino and compact. Two specimens. Jf ear Day- 

ton, Montgomery County. Huffman Stono Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 
"27163. 

Lower Silurian; dark mottled; fossiliferous. Two specimens. Hamilton, 

Butler County. Quarry of Kiltbylo & Joyce. Teuth Census, 1880. 2.5274. 

Upper Silurian; fino-grained ; yellow spotted. Near Lumberton, Clinton 

County. W. F. Oglosbee's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25382. 
Bituminous dolomite. Devonian; light colored; fossiliferous. Two specimens. 
Point Marblehead, Ottawa County. Quarry of demons & Sous. Tenth Cen- 
sus, 1880. 26087. 

Upper Silurian; light colored; line-grained and cellular. Two speciiii'ms. 

Near Fremont, Sandusky County. Quarry of Quilter Brothers. Tenth Coii- 
sus, 1880. 25283. 

Devonian ; drab ; fine aud compact. Safidusky, Erie County. Quarry of I. 

T. Davis. Tenth Census, 1880. 26084. 

Devonian; drab; fine and compact. Sauduskj^, Erie County. W.Hubbard's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26)085. 

Devonian; drab; fine and compact. Two specimens. Sandusky, Erie County. 

C. Schoepfie's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26086. 

Devonian; light colored; fine; compact. Saudusky, Erie County. Aml>rose 

Lieb's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26106. 

Upper Silurian; light colored; fiue-grainod ; cellular. Two specimens. Tif- 

fin, Seneca County. J. L. King's quarry. Tenth Census^ 1880. 25527. 

Upper Silurian ; drab ; fine ; compact. Findlay, Hancock County. Quarry of 

Altmau kfc Prossuell Company. Tenth Census, 1830. 25294. 

Upper Silurian ; dark mottled ; vesicular ; semi-crystalline. Two specimens. 

Near Ottawa, Putnam County. J. Hager's quarry. Teuth Census, 1880. 
25315. 

Upper Silurian; gray; laminated. Near Columbus Grove, Putnam County. 

.1. Postle wait's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25333. 

Up]M!r Silurian; brown mottled; fine-grained; compact. Two specimens. 

Bluffton, Allen County. Quarry of Ritzier & Greenwald. T(mth Census, 
1880. 25312. 

Upper Silurian ; brown; liue-grained ; compact. Two specimens. Near Lima, 

Allen County. J. Custer's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5313. 

Upper Silurian ; dark drab ; fine-grained; compact. Near Tama, Allen County. 

B. A. Armeutrout's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25337. 

Upper Silurian; d.i-rk mottled; fine-grained. Two specimens. Lima, Alh^ii 

County. William Pugh's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25320. 

Upper Silurian ; light colored ; fine and compact. Two specimens. Near 

Urbana, Champaign County. D. W. Happcrsett's quarry. Tentli Census, 
1880. 2.5296. 

Upper Silurian ; very light brown ; fine and ciiini)act. Two specimens. Green- 

lield. Highland County. Quarry of G. I. Rucker & Sou. Tenth Census, 

1880. 2,5381. 

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 37 



578 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Bituminous dolomite. Upper Silurian ; browu ; fino-graiued; couii)aot. Two spoc- 

iraens. Lexington, Highland County. Mrs. L. Duuu'h quarry. Tenth Census, 

1860. 2r)4'27. 
Dolomite. Devonian. Light colored; fine-grained; compact. Two specimens. 

White House, Lucas County. Quarry of Pray & Hall. Tenth Census, 18d0. 

25-282. 

Devonian; drab; hue; compact. Two specimens. Near Weston, Wood 

County. L. S. Pugh's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25324. 

Upper Silurian ; drab mottled ; coarsely vesicular. Near Van Wert, Van Wert 

County. Palmer's quarry. Tenth Census. 1880. 26510, 

Devonian; dark gray ; fine-grained; compact. Two specimens. Marion, Ma- 

rion County. Quarry of Peters & Lawrence. Tenth Census, 1880. 25322. 

Devo^iian ; dark ; fine-grained compact. Two 82)ecimens. Marion, Marion 

County. Quarry of Haberman & Riley. Tenth Census, 1880. 25323. 

Devonian; fight colored; fine-grained; compact. Two specimens. Near 

Bellefontaine, Logan County. Quarry of Angel, Miller & Co. Tenth Census, 
1880. 25290. 

Upper Silurian; light colored; cellular. Two specimens. Near Springfield, 

Clarke County. Quarry of Moores & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 27164. 

Upper Silurian ; light drab ; fine and compact. Springfield, Clarke County. 

J. Mowatt's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25293. 

Upper Silurian ; drab ; cellular. Springfield Clarke County. W. S. Thomp- 

son's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25291. 

Upper Silurian ; light drab and blue-gray. Two specimens. Yellow Springs, 

Greene County. W. Sroufe's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25292. 

Upper Silurian ; drab mottled ; fine; compact. Eaton, Preble County. Quarry 

of Young & Christraan. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5268. 
Magnesiaii limestone. Devonian; drab; fine-grained; fossiliferous. Bloomville, 
Seneca County. A. Reichert's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25G60. 

Upper Silurian ; very light drab. Piqua River, Miami County. H. G. De- 

weose's quarry. H. G. Deweese, 1883. 27514. 

Upper Silurian ; bluish drab ; fine and compact. Two specimens. Covington, 

Miami County. Quarry of Butt & Battorf. Tenth Census, 1880. 27173. 

Devonian; drab; fine-grained; compact. Near Columbus, Franklin County. 

Quarry of Lilley & Poston. Tenth Consus, 1880. 25376. 

Upper Silurian ; bluish drab ; fine and compact. Near Dayton, Montgomery 

County. Huffman Stone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 27175. 

Upper Silurian ; bluish drab ; fine and compact. 12-inch cube. Near Dayton, 

Montgomery County. Huft'man Stone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 27175. 

Upper Silurian ; light drab ; fine and compact. Two specimens. Near Day- 

ton, Montgomery County. W. H. Huston's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 
27192. 

Upper Silurian; drab; line and compact. Two specimens. Near Dayton, 

Montgomery County. Huffman Stone Company. Tenth Census, ISHO. 

25297. 
Siliceous dolomite. Upper Silurian; Ught and drab; fine-grained. Two spoci- 
mous. Covington, Miami County. Qu.arry of N. W. Furnas. Tenth Census, 1880. 
25319. 

Devonian; dark; fine-grained; compact. Two specimens. Near Marion, Ma- 

rion County. F. Ilinamon's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25321. 

■ Upper Silurian; light drab; finely cellular. Two specimens. Spriuglield, 

Clarke County. George H- Frey's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25295. 



BUILDING AND OliNAMlLN TAL STONES. 579 

Siliceous dolomite. Ui>iit'r Silurian ; drab; liiui-graiiiwl. New Paris, Pivhlc Comity. 
T.J. Smith's quarry. IVntli Census, 1680. '252()4. 

Uj>i)er Silurian ; drab; lliie-graiued ; compact. Two speciuiens. Eupheinia, 

Preble County. I. J. Weaver's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25207. 

Ferruginous limestone. Carboniferous; dark; fine and compact. Two specimens. 

Near Millersbur;;li, Holmes County. A. Geib's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 

25441). 
Sandstone. Devouian ; fine; gray. Mouclova, Lucas County. S. Wagner's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25281. 

Circular slab, 3 feet 2 inches in dianuiter and -^^ Inches thick. Amlierst, Loraiu 

County, (.'ontennial, 187(;. 251'.)L 

Broken column, 12 inches at base by 20 iiudieshigli. Amlierst. Centennial, 

187G. 25193. 

Carved post, about 14 inches at base by 2(5 inches high. Amhcst. Centennial, 

187G. 18931. 

Sub-Carboniferous; iiue; light gray. Amherst, Loraiu County. Amherst 

Stone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25472. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light gray. Amherst, Lorain County. Quarry of 

Worthingtou & Sons. Tenth Census, 1880. 25700. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine ; light brown. Foot cube. Auiherst, Lorain County. 

Centennial, 1870. 20034. 

Sub-Carboniferous; light brown; medium. Amherst, Lorain County. Ohio 

Building Stone Comiiauy. J. S. F. Batchen, 1883. 27357. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light gray. Amherst, Lorain County. Colonel 

Clark, 1881. 25023. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light gray. Amherst, Lorain County. Quarry of 

Haldeman & Son. Tenth Census, 1880. 25384. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light gray and very light brown; two si»i'cinuuis. 

Amherst, Lorain Comity. J. Nicholl's quarry. Tentli Census, 1880. 25385. 

Sub-Caiboniferous; very light bulf; medium. Amherst, Lorain County. (Quar- 

ry of Wilson & Hughes. Tenth Census, 1880. 25421. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light gray and buff. Two siiecimeus. Elyr:a, Lo- 

rain County. Quarry of Mussey & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 25;!83. 

Sub-Carbouiferous; gray and very light brown. Two specimens. NearElyria, 

Lorain County. J. Eschtruth's (juarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25380. 

Sub-Carboniferous; Elyria, Lorain County. J. Wellcr's quarry. Tenth Cen- 

sus, 1880. 25389. 

Sub-Carboniferous; One; light coh)r(Ml, Brownludm, Lorain County. Quarry 

of Worthingtou & Son. Tenth Census, 1880. 25707. 

Sub-Carboniferous; medium; light bulf. Kidgeville, Lorain ('(junty. II. L. 

Beebe's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25471. 

Sub-Carboniferous; coarse;; light colored. Independenci', Cuyahoga County. 

J. K. Hurst's ([uarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.547:5. 

Sub-Carboniferous; coarse; light colored. Bedford, Cuyahoga County. Bed- 

ford Stone Comjiany. Tenth Census, 1880. 254.58. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light colored. Brooklyn, Cuyahoga (Jounty. J. 

lloehn's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 251.59. 

Sub-Carboniferous; medium ; light colored. Indepcndenco, Cuyahoga County. 

Quarry of Wilson & Hughes. Tenth Census, 18S0. 25450. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light blue-gray. Nowburgh, Cuyahoga County. 

Quarry of W. H. Caino. Tenth Census, 1880. 25457. 



580 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Saudatoue. Sub-Carbouiferous ; ligbt colored; medium. Two 8X)ecimenB. New- 
burgb, Cuyaboga Couuty. Quary of Edwards Biotbers. Tentb Census, 1880. 
25433. 

Sub-Carbouiferous; light colored; medium. East Cleveland, Cuyaboga Couuty. 

W. A. Neff's Quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25423. 

Sub-Carbouiferous; light colored ; medium. Two specimens. East Cleveland. 

Cuyahoga County. C. E. Reader's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25434, 

Sub-Carboniferous ; light colored ; medium. East Cleveland, Cuyahoga 

Couuty. J. Haycox's quarry. Teuth Census, 1880. 25435. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light gray. Slab, 4 by 8 feet. Euclid, Cuyahoga 

Couuty, Forest City Stone Company, Centennial, 1876. 25193. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; blue-gray. Euclid, Cuyahoga County. J. Wagner's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880, 25388. 

Sub-Carboniferous; lino; light blue-gray. Euclid, Cuyahoga County. Forest 

City Stoue Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25430. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; fine; light blue-gray. Euclid, Cuyahoga County. Quarry 

of McFarland Brothers. Tenth Census, 1880. 25431. 

^— Sub-Carboniferous; fine; very light gray. Euclid, Cuyahoga County Quarry 
of Maxwell & Malone. Tenth Census, 1880. 25432. 

Sub-Car'jouiferous; fine; very light gray. Berea, Cuyahoga Couuty. Colonel 

Clark, 1881. 25018. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light gray. Three specimens. Berca, Cuyahoga 

Countj-. McDermott and Berea Stone Company, Tenth Census, 1880. 25387. 

Sub-Carboniferous; light colored ; medium. Three miles east of Berea, in Mid- 

dleburg Township, Cuyahoga County. B. Rafferty's quarry. Tenth Census, 
1880. 25390. 

Sub-Carbouiferous; fine; light gray. Foot cube. Berea, Cuyahoga County. 

Centennial, 1876. 26035. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; very light gray, Windsor, Ashtabula County. R. T, 

Stewart's quarry, Teuth Census, 1880. 25391. 

Sub-Carbouiferous ; fine ; light gray and very light brown. Two specimens. 

Near Norwalk, Huron Couuty, C. Granncll's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 
25285, 

Sub-Carbouiferous; fine ; gray. Near Norwalk, Huron Couuty, William Per- 

rin's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880, 25284. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine ; light gray. Greenfield, Huron Couuty. G.Graham's 

quarry. Teuth Census, 1880. 25522, 

Carboniferous; coarse; buff. Twinsburgb, Summit Couuty. G. Paruielee's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25422. 

Sub-Carboniferous; medium; light colored. Two specimens. Peuinsula, Summit 

County. F, Schumacher's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25494. 

Carboniferous; light yellow; medium. Akron, Summit County. J. Ilugilj's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25495. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; very light blue-gray. North Hampton, Summit 

County, Quarrj'^ of Hovey & Brown. Tenth Census, 1880. 25496. 

Carboniferous ; light colored ; medium. Windham, Portage County. Quarry 

ofCase&Kiug. Tenth Census, 1880, 25392. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; dark gray. Two specimens. Near Warren, Trum- 

bull Couuty. Austin Flagstone Company, Tenth Census, 1880, 20509. 

■ Sub-Carbouiferous; fine; light gray. Leesville, Crawford County. Leesville 

Stone Company, Teuth Census, 1830, 26534, 



J5UILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 581 

Sandstone. Siih-Carhoiiiforoiis ; li^ht and dark brown. Two siinciinons. Ili'llvillo. 
Eichlaiid (kMiuty. D. W. ZiMit's quarry. TiMitli Ct'iisus, ISSO. 2.5;380. 

Snb-Carboniforous; (ino ; vory liglit j;ray. riyiiioiitli, Ricddand County. Will- 

iam J. Bevier's quarry. Tenth Census, WHO. 5i552(i. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; coarse ; red and pink. Two specimens. Mansfield, Kicli- 

land County. Quarry of C. Voetsd^i. Tenth Census, 1880. 2551^. 

Sub-Carbouiferous; medium; j^ellow. Mansfield, Kichmond County. T. Cline's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25519. 

Sub-Carboniferous; coarse; light colored. Welhu', Richland County. S. 

Shively's quarry. Teuth Census, 1880. 2r>r)20. 
Sub-Carboniferous; line; very light drab. Plymouth, Richland County. S. VV. 

Tuttle's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25.521. 

Carboniferous; medium; yellowish. Warwick, Wayne Connty. Walnut 

Grovo Stone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25407. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; very light cohired. Wooster, Wayiui County. Quarry 

of Coe Brothers. Tenth Census, 1^80, 25517. 

Carboniferous; light ecdored; medium. Near Massillon, Stark v!ounfy. Quarry 

of Warthorst & Co. Tentli Census, 18*80. 2.54C.8. 

Carboniferous; liglit pink ; medium. Near Massillon, Stark County. Qnarrv 

of Warthorst & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 254(18. 

Carbimiferous; coarse; light colored. Near New Lisbon, ColiinibiaMaC<uiiitv. 

J. II. O'Mara'squarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2587(). 

Carboniferous; light colored ; medium. Near Youngstown, Mahoning County. 

T. Connell's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25877. 

Carboniferous; fine; gray. Youngstown, Mahoning County. J. llolden's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25878. 

Sub-Carboniferaus; fine; very light gray. North Bioomlield, M(nTow County. 

.T. Flower's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 255.52. 

Sub-Carbouiferous; fine; very light gray. Iberia, Morrow County. Quarry 

of Crane Brothers. Tenth Census, 1880. 25553. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine ; light colored. Two specimens. Mount (iilead, Mor- 

row County. B. S. Russell's quarry. Tenth Ccuisus, 1880. 2540(5. 

Sub- Carboniferous; line; light colored. Near Iberia, Morrow County. J. J. 

McClarren's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25875. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; coarse ; dark yellow. Ten miles east of Mount Vernon, 

Howard Station, Knox County. I. Crichfield's quarry. Tenth Census, 18H0. 
2541(5. 

Carboniferous; fine ; light colored. Foot cube. Berlin, Holmes County. Cen- 

tenniiil, 187(5. 17472. 

Carboniferous; medium; light colored. Near Millerslmrgh, Holmes (.'oiinty. 

W. II. Ling's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25450. 

Carboniferous; fine; light gray. Near Millersl)urgli, Holmes C'ounty. W. 

Cary's (luarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25(515. 

Carboniferous; light colored ; medium. N(!ar New Philadelphia, Tus(-ar;iwas 

County. Quarry of A. Mathias.' Tenth Census, 1880. 25515. 

Carboniferous; light colored. Near canal, Dover, Tuscarawas County. Tus- 

carawas Valley Coal and Iron Comjiany. Tenth Census, 1880, 2.551(). 

Carboniferous; coarse; light colored. Near (Jarrollton, Carrol] Connty. N. M. 

Smith's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2540:!. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; liglit blue-gray and ligjit br.Twn. Two si)ocimet:a. 

Near Sunbury, Delaware County. H. Flockner's (luarry. I'cnth Census, 
1880. 25378. 



582 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Sandstone. Sulj-Carboniferoiis ; fine ; very light gray. Near Snnbnry, Delaware 
County. C. B. Gaylord's quarry. Tenth Censna, 1380. 2537'J. 

Siib-Carboniferous ; medium; light i>inkisli. Near Newark, Licking County. 

C. Daugberty's quarry. Tenth Census, 188v). 25:UG. 

Sub-Carboniferous; coarse; buff. Near Newark, Liokiug County. C. Daugb- 

erty's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25318. 

Sub-Carboniferous; coarse ; light colored. Near Newark, Licking County. 0. 

Z. Ilillery's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25:]3G. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; very light gray; olive-tinted. Newark, Licking 

County. J. Coylc's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2i'y?>7'.i. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; liglit blue-gray. Near Newark, Licking County. J. 

Coyle's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25311. 

Carboniferous; medium; light colored and red. Two specimens. Coshocton, 

Coshocton County. M. Cheney's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25524. 

Carboniferous; medium; very light colored. Near Coshocton, Coshocton 

County. M. Cheney's <xuarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25525. 

Carboniferous; light colored; medium. Stenbenville, Jeff"erso!i County. Quarry 

of Archer and Boals. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5642. 

Carboniferous; light colored; medium. Steubenvilh^, Jefierson County. (Quarry 

of Archer & r.oals. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5G43. 

Carboiiiferons; light colored; medium. Stenbenville, .TefTorson County. 

Quarry of Floto & Bros. Tenth Census, 1880. 25644. 

Carboniferous; coarse; light colored. Zanesville. Muskingum County. T. B. 

Townsend's quarry. Tenth Censu.s, 1886. 25537. 

Carboniferous ; fine ; gray and light brown. Two specimens. Cunibeiland, 

Guernsej', and Noble Counties. T. B. Townsend's quarry. Tenth Census, 
18fi0. 25568, 

- — Carboniferous; coarse; light colored. Cambridge, Guernsey County. S. 

Barr's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25574. 

Carboniferous; light colored; medium. Lewis's Mills, Belmont County. J. 

Hutchinson's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25588. 

Carboniferous; tine; gray; olive-tinted. Bellaire, Belmont County. W. .[. 

McClain's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25612. 

Carboniferous; coarse; light colored. Near Bellaire, Belmont County. .1. K. 

Robinson's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25614. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; coarse; buif and yellow. Two specimens. Lancaster, 

Fairfield County. C. Bowmaster's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25326. 

Sub-Carboniferous 5 coarse; light colored. Lancaster, Fairfield County. C. 

Bowmaster's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25332. 

Sub-Carboniferous; coane ; light colored. Lancaster, Fairfield County. 

Quarry of Sharp & Crook. Tenth Census, 1880. 25335. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; gray. Lithopolis, Fairfield County. Litliopulis 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25325. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; coarse; yellow. Near Lancaster, Fairiield County. (j)uurrs 

of Sharp & Crook. Tenth Census, 1880, 25314. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light blue-giviy. Near Columbus, Franklin County- 

William A. Forrester's quarry. Tenth Census, 18H0. 2.5377. 

Sub-Carboniferous; coarse; buff. Logan, Hocking County, (^nnrry of Wcit- 

zoll Bros. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.-)334. 

Carboniferous; fine; gray; olive-tiut(Ml. Ne;i.r Marietta, Wasliing'ou Coiuify. 

P. L. Cole's (]uarry. Tenth Census, IHHO. 2(;()3l». 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 583 

Sandstoiie. Sub-Carbon iCurons; gray. Ne.ar Marietta, WafilunKto" County. P. L. 
Colo'.s qnarry. T(Mitli Census, 1880. 20640. 

Sub-Carbonit'erons ; lifjht colored. Harni*'r, Washington County. T. B. Town- 

scnd's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2t>o80. 

Carboniferous; (hukgray. Near Marietta, Washington County. D. B. Caider'a 

quarry. Tenth Census, 18H(). 2()tidL 

Carboniferous; fine; gray. Near Marietta, Washington County. D. Brigg's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 20097. 

Carboniferous; fine; gray. Near Marietta, Washington County. Constitu- 

tion Stone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 20741. 

Carboniferous; fine; litrht brown. Near Constit'ution, Washington County. 

Constitution Stone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 20742. 

Carboniferous; line; gr.r Near Marietta, Wasliington County. C. Fincli'a 

(juarry. Tenth Censu.s, i -■*(). 207(52. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; brown. Piketon, Pike County. Waverly Brown- 

stone Quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 258:M. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; tine ; verj^ light gray. Piketon, Pike County. Green 

Quarry. Tenth Census, l&SO. 25750. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light brown. Rockville, Adams County Rockville 

Freestone Works. Tenth Census, 1880. 25754. 
— Sub-Carboniferous; fine; very liglit gray. Near Portsniontli, Scioto County. 
Quarry of Reitz & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5751. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; drab. Near Portsmoutli, Scioto County. Quarry of 

Reitz & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 25752. 

Sub-Carboniferous; five; drab. Buena Vista, Scioto County. Buen.a Vista 

Freestone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25753. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; drab. Buena Vista and Scioto Counties. BucMia 

Vista t^xcelsior Freestone Works. Tenth Census, 1880. 25755. 



Diabase. IVIedium ; gray. Twenty miles e.-ist of Albany, Linn County. F. Wood's 

quarry. Frank Wood, 1885. 37006. 
Basalt. Fine; gray. Near Clackamas, Clackamas County. William Young's qu.arry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 20249. 
Sandstone. Fine; drab. Oakland, Douglas County. W. N. Leepcr's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26504. 

Fine; very light brown. Near Albany, Linn County. F. Wood's quarry. 

Frank Wood, 1885. 37005. 

PENNSYLVANIA. 

Serpentine. Light green ; coarse; porous. Will not iiolish ; used only for general 
building. West Chester, Chester County. J. H. Brinton's quarry. Tenth Census, 
1880. 2.5502. 

Ligl't green; coarse; porous. Will not polish ; used only for general building. 

Three miles south of West Chester, Chester County, J, II. Brinton's quarry. 
Tenth Census, 1880. 27319. 

Light green; coarse; porous. Will not poli.sh ; used only for general buildin;^. 

Chester County (near Rising Sun, Md.). Carter & Reynolds's quarries. Tenth 
Census, 1880. 25008. 

Limestone. Lower Silurian; blue-gr:iy; micaceous. p]ast Consholiocken, Mont- 
gomery County. American Society Mining EngiiKM'rs, 18.8{). 37873. 



584 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Limestone. Dark blnc-gray ; fine and compact. Mcrtztown, B(>rk.s County. Amer- 
ican Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 37879. 

Lower Silnrian ; dark bine-gray. Weruersvillc, Berks Connty. Aiueiicaa So- 

ciety Mining Engineers, 188G. 378(51. 
Lower Silurian ; dark blue-gray. Wernersville, Berks County. American So- 
ciety Mining Engineers, 1886. 37855. 

Lower Silurian ; water-blue, dark veined. Wernersville, Berks County. Amoii- 

can Society Mining Engineers, 11-86. 37854. 
— — Lo\v'er Silurian; fine; blue-graj-. Myerstown, Lebanon County. American 
Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 37864. 

Lower Silurian; Myeratown, Lebanon County. American Society Mining En- 

gineers, 1886. 37863. 

Lower Silurian ; dark blue-gray North of Annville, Lebanon County. Ameri- 

can Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 37867. 
Lower Silurian ; dark blue-gray. Palmyra, Lebanon County. American Soci- 
ety Mining Engineers, 1886. 37871. 

Lower Silnrian ; blue-gray, white spotted. North of Annville, Lebanon County. 

American Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 378.52. 

Lower Silurian ; dark blue-gray. North of Annville, Lebanon County. Ameri- 

can Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 378S7. 

Lower Silurian; blue-gray. Richland Station, Lebanon County. American 

Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 37874. 

Lower Silurian ; water-blue; crystalline. Richland Station, Lebanon County. 

American Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 37865. 

Lower Silnrian ; blue-gray ; crystalline. Richland Station, Lebanr)n County. 

American Society Mining Engineers, 188(). 37866. 

Lower Silurian; dark blue-gray. Harrisburg, Dauphin County. American 

Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 37878. 

Lower Silurian ; dark blue-gray, nearly black; fine and compact. Near Har- 

risburg, Dauphin County. J.A.Rutherford's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 
25328. 

' Lower Silurian ; blue. Hnmmelstown, Dauphin County. American Society 

Mining Engineers, 1886. 37883. 

Lower Silurian; dark blue-gray, nearly black. Paxton Station, D.iuphin 

County. American Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 37870. 

Lower Silurian; nearly black; fine and compact. Near York, York County. 

C. F. Winters's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26237. 

Lower Silnrian ; dark gray, nearly black ; fiue and compact. Chambersburgh, 

Franklin County. Henry Lippy's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26312. 

Sub- Carboniferous; light gray; granular. Connellsville, Fayette County. A 

R. Banuing's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26058. 

Devonian; very dark drab ; fine and compact. Near Huntingdon, Huntingdon 

County. F. Hefright's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26170. 

Very dark gray ; fine and compact. Near Spruce Creek, Huntingdon County. 

Robert Henderson's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26235. 
Lower Silurian; water-blue; crystalline. Howellsville, Delaware County. 

American Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 37869. 
Lower Silurian ; nearly white ; crystalline. Howellsville, Delaware County. 

American Society Mining Engineers, 1836. 37853. 

Lower Silurian ; dark blue-gray. Lebanon, Alhighcny County. American So- 

ciety Mining Engineers, 1886. 37853. 



BUILDING AND OUNAMKNTAL STONES. 585 

Limestone. Lower Silurian ; dark hliio-oray. LfhaiiDU, Allo;4liiMi\ Comity. Aincr- 
icaii Society Mining Euyineers, LMHO. :i78r)U. 

Lower SiUiriati ; dark bhie-gray. Lebanon, AlleL'liciiy ('oiiuty. American So- 

ciety Mining Engineers, 1886. 378r>0. 

Lower Silurian ; dark blue-gray. Schuylkill Haven, Schuylkill C^ounty 

American Society Mining Engineers, 1886. :{7872. 
Calcareous dolomite. Lower Silurian; gray; graunlar. Two specimen.s. Near 
Columbia-, Lancaster Connty. C. S. Kanffman's quarry. Tenth Census, 1S80. 

2(;:5:!i. 

Lower Silurian; nearly black; pyritil'erons. Leanion Place Station, Lancaster 

County. J. Young's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. •i.'iW)!). 

Lower Silurian ; dark; nearly black. Reading, Berks County. .lohn II. Stern- 
burg's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2()4'.57. 

Lower Silurian. Wrightsville, York County. Quarry of Ktur, Weitzel i^i Co. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26332. 

Lower Silurian; dark gray; nearly black ; iino and com[)aet. Carlisle, Cum- 

berland County. W. F. Noble's (inarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26302. 

Lower Silurian ; gra^^; coarsely laminated. Near Shiromanstown, Cumbrrlaud 

County. Quarry of Moses A-. Sidle. Tenth Census, 1880. 26:>01. 
Dolomite. Lower Silurian ; black ; tine and comi)act. Easton, Northami)toii ( 'miiity. 

Quarry of George it Isaac A. Smith. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.''>767. 
— — Ijower .Silurian ; yellowish. Two specimens. Flonrtown, Montgomery Countj'. 

American Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 37876. 

I^iwer Silurian ; light yellow, blue spotted. Flonrtown, Montg(unery County. 

American Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 37884. 

Losver Silurian ; bluish drab; compact. Philadelphia and Reading Railroad, 

Chester Valley Branch, Mclnniis Siding, Chester County. American Society 
Mining Engineers, 1886. 378r)7. 

Lv>wcr Silurian ; light colored. Mill Lane, ChestHU- County. American Stxtiety 

Mining Engineers, 1886. 37868. 

Lower Silurian ; blue mottled. Near Pott's Landing, Berks County. Auieri 

can Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 37r.'");;. 

Lower Silurian; Light yellow; line and conii>aet. Williams Station, I'erks 

County. American Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 37886. 

Lower Silurian ; dark bluo-gray ; fine and compact. Near Lancaster, Lancas- 
ter Connty. Westmau's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26374. 

-— Low(!r Silurian; dark blue-gray; tine and compact. Near Ilarrisbnrg, Dau- 
])hin County. Quarry of McCormick & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 26281. 

Lower Silurian ; dark gray ; fine and compact. Near Orbisonia, Huntingdon 

Counry. Quarry of D. Grove »t Sou. Tcuith Census, 1880, 26204 

Lower Silurian; tine; light yellow. Kerberburgh. American Society Min 

ing Engineers, 1880. 37877. 

Lower Silurian; light drab. Plymouth, Lu/erne County. American Society 

Mining Engineers, 1886. 37880. 

Lower Silurian; light colored; crystalline. Cedar Hollow, Lime ('onnty. 

American Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 3788!") 
Limestone fmarble]. Lower Silurian ; nearly white; finegrained : compact. Mor 
ristown, Montgomery County Centennial, 1876. 17.">73. 

Lower Silurian : light gray: crystalline.. Two specimens. Near S)ui'ig Mill 

Station, Montgomery ('ounty Cedar Grove Marbli- Works. T<Mith Census, 
1880 25356 



.08 (J REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1880. 

Liniestone f marble J. Lower Silurian ; li.u;lit. hhuvgray ; (M-ystailinc ; Kiiigofrnis- 
HJii., Montj^oiiiery County. Roesovillo lUuo Marblo Coiiipauy. T<'n(h Ceu.suH, 
1880. 25555. 

Light blue-gray; crystalline. Near Columbia, Lanca,ster County. C. 8. 

Kauff'man's quarry. Tenth Census. 26331. 

Bluish white ; piuk veins; fine; compact; crystalliuc York, York County. 

C. H. Smith's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G23G. 

• Lower Silurian ; dark gray. Pine Grove, Schuylkill County. American So- 
ciety Mining Engineers, 1886. 37875. 

Lower Silurian ; gray ; dark veined ; white spotted ; line and compact. My- 

erstown, Lebanon County. American Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 37862. 

Lower Silurian. Gray; dark veined; fine and compact. American Society 

Mining Engineers. 37863. 

Lower Silurian ; dark blue-gray. North of Anuville, Lebanon County. Amer- 

ican Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 37881. 
Magnesian limestone. Lower Silurian very dark gray ; fossil iferous. Morrell, 
Huntingdon County. Quarry of A. G. Morris. Tenth Census, 1880. 26162. 

Lower Silurian ; dark gray; coarse. East Conshohocken, Montgomery County. 

East Conshohocken quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26983. 

Devonian; dark gray; fine and compact. Two specimens. Hyudman, Bed- 

ford County. Peerless Lime Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26201. 

Devonian; drab; semi-crystalline ; fossiliferous. Cove Station, Bedford County. 

J. T. Shirley's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26202. 

Carboniferous ; dark drab ; coarse. Two specimens. Van Port, Beaver County. 

W. J. Dunn's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5846. 

Calcareous breccia. Triassic; coarse; variegated. Near Fairfield, Adams County. 
Tenth Census, 1880. 26376. 

Calcareous breccia [marble]. Triassic ; coarse ; reddish ; variegated. Near 

Fairiield, Adams County. Tenth Census, 1880. 26376. 
Triassic ; coarse ; variegated. Near Amityville, Berks County. Col. J. Wea- 
ver's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26465. 
Calcareous dolomite, [marble]. Lower Silurian ; nearly white ; crystalline. Near 

Columbia, Lancaster County. Quarry of Kerr, Weitzel &, Co. Tenth Census, 

1880. 26332. 

Biotite gneiss. Coarse; gray. Near Chester, Delaware County. Crum Creek 
quarry Tenth Census, 1880. 25404. 

— Fine; gray. Two specimens. Near Chester, Delaware County. Quarry of 
Leiper & Lewis. Tenth Census, 1880. 25407. 

Fine; gray. Frankford, Philadelphia County. Quarry of Barbour, Ireland 

& S. Faunce. Tenth Census, 1880. 25.561. 
Biotite muscovite gneiss. Fine ; light gray. Near Chester, Delaware County. 

quarry of A. O. &. I. O. Deshong, jr. Tenth Census, 1880. 254.36. 
Gneiss. Coar.se ; gray. Near Reading, Berks County. Tenth Census, 1880. 26470. 
Muscovite gneiss. Coarse; very light gray. Germantown, Twenty-second Ward, 

I'hiladelphiii County. J. Nolan's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25669. 
Hornblende gneiss. Fine; dark gray. Germantown, Philadelphia County. Quarry 
of Nester & Shelmire. Tenth Census, 1880. 25551. 

Fine ; dark gray. Rittenhou.setown, Philadelphia County. McKinney's 

nuarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25.556, 

Quartz porphyry. Dull red. Near Pino Grove Furnace, Cumberland County. 
Tenth Census, 1880. 26382 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 587 

Diabase. Noaily hlack : line and coiiiiiact. Near Ui'adiiiij, l'..'iks ('tiiint_\. I'ciith 
Census, 1880. 26467. 

Coarse; «lark gray. Little Dam, near Iti'ading, Ucrks County. LFsed lor Htrci-t 

pavemeuts. Tout li Census, LS80. 26476. 

Fine ; dark gray. Use<l as above. Near Jacksonwald, ISerks County. Tentli 

Census, 1880. 2<i471). 

Mesozoic ; medium; gray. (Jsed as above. Round Toji, :5 luiles south of Get- 

tysbiirgli, Adams County. Tentli Census. 26:}75. 

• Mesozoic; liiu', ; gray. Near Goldsborough, York County. Used as above. 

Northern Central liailroad Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26-282. 

Mesozoic; tine; gray. Collins Station, Lancaster County. Used chielly for 

street pavement ;uid load ballast. .1. Keller's (juarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 
2,^)327. 
Diorite. Medium; dark gray. Near Reading, Berks County. Ohlinger Dam Cut. 
Tenth Census, l.>^80. 2C)466.' 

Coarse; dark gray. Reading, Berks County. Tenth Census, 1880. 26474. 

Sandstone. Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light colored. Corry, Erie County. J. M. 

Colegrove's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25800. 

Devonian; line; light colored. J^elxpuf, Eri(> (.'ounly. F. Sanger's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2.')7;JH. 

Devonian; tine; drab. Near Erie, Erie County. ,J. Leask's quarry. Tenth 

CiMisus, 1880. 2.")7:51). 

Carboniferous; coarse; light colored. Meadville, Crawford (!ounty. B. Mc- 

Neil's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25772. 

Carboniferous; fine; light colored. Titusviile, Crawford County. D. Bren- 

nan's quarry. Tentli Census, 1880. 25850. 

Carboniferous ; line ; light colored. Near Warren, Warren County. W. 

Smith's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2652:'.. 

Carboniferous; line; very light brown. North Warren, Warren County. Tenth 

Cen.sus, 1880. 2.5888. 
Carboniferous ; light colored ; miMliutn. Garland, Warren Counry. Quarry of 

Linn & Leary. Tenth Census, IHSO. 2.5889. 
Carboniferous; coarse; cellular; light colored. Antrim, Tioga County. P. 

Bradley's quarry. Tenth Census, 1.^80. 2.5988. 
• Devonian ; fine ; blue-gray. Maiuesburgh, Tioga County. Maiiussburgh Flag- 
ging Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25989. 
—^ Carboniferous; line ; light gray. Greenville, Mercer County. Quarry of Amy 

& Kappenberger. Tenth Censu.s, 1880. 2577:?. 
Carboniferous; fine ; very light olive. Greenville, Mercer (bounty. P. Leech's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 18.S0. 25774. 
Carboniferous; line; light colored. Shaion, M.rcer County. C. Herrmann's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25775. 

Sub-Carlxmiferous; fine; gray and light brown. Two specimens. Franklin, 

Venango County. Quarry of J. Bell A:, Son. Tenth Cen.sus, 18^0. 2.5848. 

Carboniferous; fine; light ))uir. Rockwood, Venango County. D. Ready's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25849. 

Carboniferous; coarse; light colored. Iowa Station, JefTerson County. Alle- 

gheny Valley Railroad Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25915. 

Devonian ; brown ; fine and compact. Queen's Run, Clinton County. J. Mc- 

Niilly's quarry. Tenth Census. 1880. 25948. 



588 REPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Sandstone. Dcvoniau; fine; buff. P'iirrautlsville, Clinton County. Quairy ol II. F. 
Hawk & Co. Tenth Census, 18d0. 25961. 

Upper Silurian ; dark blue-gray ; very fine and compact. Near Danville, Mon- 

tour Couuty. Pinneo estates. Tenth Census, 1880. 25962. 

Devonian; very hue; light hluo-gray. Near Nicholson, Wyoming County. 

Quarry of Moses Shields »fc Sou. Tenth Census, 1880. 27020. 

Devonian ; fine ; blue-gray. Two specimens. Black Walnut, Wyoming County. 

Wyoming Stone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 27032. 

Devonian; fine; light blue-gray. Skinner's Eddy, Wyoming Couuty. Quarry 

of A. E. Fordyce & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 27033. 

Devonian; fine; light blue-gray. Meshoppi'U, Wyoming County. Quarry of 

Brownscombe &, King. Tenth Census, 1880. 27037. 

Devonian ; fine ; dark jiurplish. Plains, Luzcrno County. P. Banker's quarry 

Tenth Census, 1880. 27039. 

Carboniferous; fine; gray. Shickshinny, Luzc^rne Couuty. G. Nieelcy's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25960. 
Devonian; fiue ; blue-gray. Brandt, Suscjiieiianna County. Harmony Biick 

Company, Tenth Census, 1880. 27016. 
Sub-Carbcmiferous ; fin(;;gray. Near Scranton, Lackawanna Ccuiuty. Quarry 

of J. Williams. Tenth Census, 18H0. 27017. 

Devonian; fiue ; light colored. Near Scraut.on, Lai^kawanna County. Quarry 

• of J. Williams. Tenth Census, 1880. 27018. 
Coarse; pink. Olyphant, Lackawanna Couuty. Olyphant quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 27019. . 
Devonian ; fine; dark hluc-gray. Pond Eddy, Pike County. Quarry of C. 

W. Maxwell &. Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 27015. 
Carboniferous; light colored. Honiowood, Beaver Couuty. Qtiarry of Richie 

& McGinnis. Tenth Census, 1880. 25258. 
C!irl)onirerous ; light colored and brown. Two specimens. Ilomewood, Beaver 

Couuty. A. J. Jolly's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25259. 

Carboniferous; fine ; light colored. Near Beaver Falls, Beaver County. Qnarrj^ 

of J. Harlmau &, D. Beruard. Tenth Census, 1880. 25355. 

Carboniferous; coarse; gray. Kiasola Station, Beaver County. Quarry of 

Eeed & Ewing. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5260. 
Carboniferous; coarse; gray; rust spotted. Baden, Be.-iver County. J. G. 

Gallaglier's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25261. 
Devonian; fine; dark brown. Schuylkill Haven, Schuylkill County. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25779. 
Lower Silurian; coarse; gray. Near Pottsville, Schuylkill Couuty. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25780. 
Carboniferous ; coarse ; gray. Maueh Chunk, Carbon County. Tenth Ceusu.s, 

1880. 25858. 
Devonian; fine; dark gray. Mauch Chunk, Carbon County. Tenth Census, 

1880. 25854. 

Devonian; fine; brown. Mauch CJliunk, Carl)on County. Tenth Census, 1880. 

25855. 

Lower Siluri.'iu ; coarse; brownish. Mauch Chunk, Carbon Couuty. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25856. 

Devonian; fine; blue-gray. Weissport, Carbon f'ounty. II. Mertz's quarry. 

Tenth Census, li^so. -iTOilS 



HUILDING AND ORNAMKNTAL STONES. 689 

Sandstone. Cuibouiferous; iiuc; olivo. ritlsburgh. All(»gliony County. T. Roiuke's 
(lUiiriy. Tciitli Ccustis, 1H80. 257G8. 

Carboniferous; fine; ligbt-gray. Jolnistowu, Cambria County, tiuarry of 

Gore & Levcrgood. Tontli Census, 18d0. 2G1'JI. 

Carboniferous; fiue ; gray. Prospect, Cambria County. Cambria Iron Com- 
pany. Tenth Census, 1880. 25922. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fiuo ; light colored. Near Altooiui, Blair County. Will- 
iam Myor's quarry. Tenth Ceusus, 1880,26148. 

Upper Silurian; very light coloj-ed ; compact and hard. Near Mapleton, Hun- 

tingdon County. F. Ilefright's quarry. Tenth Ceusus, 1880. 2(3171. 

Triassic ; coarse ; porous ; reddish brown. Norristown, Montgomery County. 

L. Flum's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G4:?:3. 

Triassic; purplish brown ; fiuo and medium. Two specimens. Near Reading, 

Berks County. Quarry of Eppler & Rischvile. Tenth Census, 1880. 26436. 

Potsdam; light colored ; compact and hard. R«\ading, Berks County. Tenth 

Ceusus, 1880. 26471. 

Triassic ; fiue ; light reddish brown. Centre Bridge, Bucks County. A. Man- 

derson's (quarry. Tenth Ceusus, 1880. 25837. 

Triassic ; coarse ; light bluish drab, rust spotted. Centre Bridge, Bucks 

County. A. Mandersou's (]uarry. Teuth Ceusus, 1880. 25838. 
. Triassic;; reddish gray, rust spotted. Centre Bridge, Bucks County. A. Man- 
dersou's quarry. Teuth Ceusus, 1880. 25830. 

Carboniferous; browu ; medium. Near Wampuu), Lawrence County. J.Fri- 

day's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25852. 

Carboniferous; light colored; medium. Near Wampum, Lawreuce County. 

Quarry of New York, Pittsburgh and Chicago Railroad Compauy. Tenth 
Census, 1880. 25853. 

. Carboniferous ; fine ; light colored. Wampum, Lawrence County. J.Friday's 

(quarry. Teuth Census, 1880. 25776. 

Carboniferous; coarse; porous; light colored. Freeport, Armstrong County. 

D. Taylor's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25851. 

-^ Triassic ; fine; reddish browu. Centre Bridge, Bucks County. A. Mandersou's 

luarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25830. 

Triassic ; light brown ; porous. Two specimous. Yardleyville, Bucks County. 

Quarry of S. B. & E. W. Twinning. Tenth Census, 1880. 25667. 

Triassic; fine; brown. Two specimens. Lumberville, Bucks County. T. H. 

Kemble's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2507G. 

Carboniferous; coarse; buff. Two specimens. Wayncsburgh, Gneiu' County. 

S. Rinehart's quarry. Tenth Census. 1880. 25760. 

Carboniferous; line; bluish drab. Near Cannousburgh, Washingt-on County. 

J. Cook's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25815. 

Carboniferous; coarse; light colored. Near Monoiigahela City, Waslungtou 

County. Tenth Census, 1880. 25231). 

Carboniferous; light yelU)wish brown. Near Washington, Wasliington County. 

Quarry of Ilallam Bros. Tenth Census, 18S0. 25770. 

Carboniferous; light yellowish browu. Near Washington, Washington Ccnuity. 

D. Ilaiigerty's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25771. 

Carboniferous; fine; gray. Near Webster, Westmoreland County. William 

Nelson's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25353. 

Carboniferous; fine; gray. Greensburgh, Westnu)rehuid County. S. /iimmor- 

num's (piarry. Tenth Census, 1380. 25024. 



590 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Sandstone. (J urboui fibrous; Hue; gray, dark streaked. Lucesco, Westuiorelaud 
Coiiuty. J. A. Huifmau's quarry. Teutli Ceusiis, 1880. 25903. 

Carboniferous; fine; bluish gray. Derry Station, Westmoreland County. 

Loyalhanna Coal and Coke Company, Tenth Census, 1880. 25913. 

Carboniferous; buff; medium. Derry Station, Westmoreland Counjy. J. C. 

Campbell's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25914. 

Carboniferous; fine; brown and brown with yellow bands. Two specimens. 

Scottdale, Westmoreland County. S. Dunmire's quarry. Tenth Census, 
1880. 25985. 

Carboniferous; coarse; bull'. Near Uniontown, Fayette County. J. Eraser's 

quarry. Tenth .Census, 1880. 25990. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light colored. Near Uuioutown, Fayette County. 

D. Shipley's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25991. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; light reddish gray. Near Uuioutown, Fayette County. 

. D. Shipley's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25992. 

Carboniferous; fine; light colored. Near Connellsville, Fayette Couutj^. 

Speer White & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G059. 

Carboniferous ; medium ; light colored. Connellsville, Fayette County. C. 

Shibley's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880, 25984, 

Carbouiferous; fine; light colored. Laytou's Station, Fayette County. Speer 

White & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G000. 

Carboniferous; fine ; light colored. Fayette Statiou, Fayette County. Quart-y 

of Porter Bros. Tenth Census, 1880. 20061. 

Carboniferous; fine; light drab. Somerset, Somerset County. J. McAdam's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26109. 

Triassic; fine ; brown. Used for general building. Goldsborough, York Couulff, 

Hummelstown Brownstone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5265. 

Triassic; reddish brown. Used as above. Near Hummelstown, Dauphin 

County. Hummelstown Brownstone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25266. 

Triassic; fine; brown. Near Goldsborough, York County. F. Reiling's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26283. 
Argillaceous sandstone. Carbouiferous; fine; gray. Stoops Ferry, Allegheny 

County. U. S. Government quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25342. 
Conglomerate. Devonian; coarse; light colorexl. Pottsville, Schuykill County. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 27049. 

Potsdam; coarse; friable. Fricdensburg, Berks County. Clytuer qnany 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26468. 

Potsdam ; pinkish gray ; compact. Near Pikeville, Berks Couuty. G. M. 

Keim's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26469. 

Sub-Carboniferous; gray; compact. Pottsville, Schuylkill County. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 2.5782. 
Quartzite. Devonian ; fine ; light colored. Near Altooua, Blair County. Quarry 
of Booth & Mackey. Tenth Census, 1880. 26147. 

Potsdam; light colored ; compact and h.ard. Jackson wakl, Berks County. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26473. 

Upper Silurian; very light colored; compact and hard. Near Huntingdon, 

Huntingdon County. S. P. Wensel's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26203. 

Sandstone (nearly quartzite). Carboniferous ; blue-gray ; very coiupact and hard. 
Near Shickshinuy, Luzerne County. Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Rail- 
road quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25923. 

Slate. Lower Silurian (Hudson River). Blue-black. Slatington, Lehigh County, 
Quarry of D. Williams, Tenth Census, 1880, 25740. 



BUILDINa AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 591 

Slate. Ldwoi' Silurian. Bliio-black. 1 by 4 by 3 iiicbcs. Cbapiiiaii's Station, Noith- 
aiupton Comity. Cliapinan'.s Now Yoik Slate Company. Tonth Census, 1S80. 
25820. 

Lower Silurian. Blue-black. Bangor, Northain[)ton County. Bangor Slate 

Company. Tentli Census, 1880. 25934. 

Lower Silurian. Blue-black. Slatedale, Lebigb County. Quarries of tbe Lock 

Slate Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25959. 

Lower Silurian. Blue-black. 4 by 4 l)y 2^ inwhee. Catasauijua, Lebigli County. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25993. 
Lower Silurian. J51ue-black and brownisli. Three speciun)ns. Bangor, North- 
ampton County. Bangor Slate Company. Tenth CeuHU.s, 1880. 25934. 

Lower Silurian. Blue-black. Slatington, Lehigh County. Quarrj' of Kuntz 

&, Jacobs. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G912. 

Lower Silutian. Blue-black. Slatington, Lehigh County. Quarry of J. Hess 

& Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 26913. 

Lower Silurian. Blue-black. Two specimens. Slatington, Lehigh Count;). 

' Pennsylvania quarries. Tenth Census, 1880. 26914. 

Archajan (?) Blue black. Bangor, York County. Peach Bottom Slate Com- 

pany. Tenth Census, 1880. 25949. 

Arehaiau (?) Blue-black. Slab 8 inches square. West Bangor, York County. 

Quarry of K. L. Jones & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 20480. 

Archaian (?) Blue-black. 4 by 4 by 1^ inches. West Bangor, York County. 

Quarry of W. C. Parry & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 26852. 

• Archajan (?) Blue-black. Slab 8 inches square. West Bangor, York County. 

Quarry of W. C. Parry & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 26853. 

RHODE ISLAND. 

Biotite granite. Fine ; gray. Near Westerly, Washington County. Smith Granite 
Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25491. 

Medium; light pink. Near Westerly, Washington County. Smith Granite 

Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25492. 

Fine; gray. Near Westerly, Washington County. New England Granite 

Works. Tenth Census, 1880. 25510. 

Fine; gray. Near Westerly, Washington County. New England Granite 

Works. Tenth Census, 1880. 25511. 

Fine; gray. Foot cube. Westerly, Washington County. Centennial, 1876. 

1752G. 

Fine; pink. Westerly, Washington County. Centennial, 1876. 17553. 

Fine; gray. Near Westerly, Washiugtiu County. Smith Granite Company. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25490. 

Medium; gray. Near Westerly, Wiiahiugton County. C. P. Ciiapnuui's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25529. 

Fine; pink. Near Westerly, Washington County. C. 1'. Chai>Mian's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25530. 

Medium; pink. Near Westerly, Washington County. New England Granite 

Works. Tenth Census, 1880. 25512. 

Fine; gray. Near Westerly, Washington County. C. P. Cliapman's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25528. 

Medium; piuk. Six-inch cube. Westerly, Washington County. Now England 

Granite Works. Tenth Census, 1880. 26998. 
■ Fine; gray. Six-inch cube. Westerly, W^ashingtoii County. Now England 

Granite Works. Tenth Census, 1880. 26999. 



502 KEPOUT ON NAIIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Biotite granite. Fine; gray. Six- iiicli cube. Westerly, WasLiiigtou Couuty. New 
Eugliiud Granite Works. Teuth Census, 1«80. 27000. 

Fine; gray. Niantic, Washington County. A. G. Crumb's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25952. 

Coarse ; light pink. West Greenwich, Kent County. II. Vaughn's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25513. 

Coarse; pinkish gray. West Greenwich, Kent County. J. Tarbox's quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25514. 

Coarse ; light pinkish gray. Near Sniithfielcl, Providence County. Sniithfield 

Granite Company. Tenth Ceusiis, 1880. 25531. 
Granite. Fine; light gray. Polished slab 7 feet 5 inchoH long by 3 feet 8 inches 

wide by 2^ inches thick. Westerly, Washington County. New England Granite 

Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 27083. 
Biotite gneiss. Coarse; light gray. Pascoag, Providence County. Quarry of Gar- 

vey Bros. Tenth Census, 1880. 26318. 
Hornblende gneiss. Medium ; dark greenish gray. Diamond Hill, Cumberland 

Township, Providence County. Tenth Census, 1880. 25532. 

SOUTH CAKOLIXA. 

Steatite (?) [soapstone]. Very compact and quite hard ; nearly black. Quarry of 
F. llappenlield, Yorkville, York County. Centennial, 1876. 31.H)19. 

Medium; greenish gray. Spartauburgh, iSpartanburgh County, 1885. 37590. 

Limestone [marble]. Light blue-gray ; crystalline. 37591. 

Biotite granite. Medium ; gray. Wiunsborough, Fairfield County. 37578. 

Fine ; gray. Fairfield County. 37588. 

Medium ; gray. Fairfield County. 37587. 

Fine; gray. Charleston, Charleston County. E. K. White, 1885. 37583. 

Fine ; gray. Aiken County. 37585. 

Coar.se ; dark gray. Aiken County. 37601. 

Medium; dark gray. Batesburgh,. Lexington County. 37584. 

- — Medium; gray. Columbia, Richland County. 37582. 

Fine ; gray. Edgefield County. 37586. 

Fine ; gray. Newbnrry County. 37589. 

TENNESSEE. 

Limestone [marble]. Lower Silurian ; pink ; fossiliferous. Slab 12 by lOby ^ inches. 
R. Gouldsbury & Son, New York, 1884. 367G0. 

Lower Silurian ; pink; crystalline. Near Cleveland, Bradley County. Quarry 

. of Patrick & Smith. Tenth Census, 1880. 26825. 

Lower Siluiian ; pink ; fossiliferous. Near Cleveland, Bradley County. Quarry 

of Patrick & Smith. Tenth Census, 1880. 26824. 

Lower Silurian ; dull red and white mottled ; fossiliferous. Near Whitesburgh, 

Hamblen County. Joseph Stamp's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25995. 

Lower Silurian; olive-green; fossiliferous. Eleventh district of Davidson 

County. N. II. Boyd's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27186. 
Lower Silurian; very light gray; crystalline. Two specimens. Knoxville, 

Knox County. Quarry of Friersou &. Morgan. Tenth Census, 1880. 26555. 
Lower Silurian ; light pink; crystalline. Knoxville, Knox County. Crescent 

quarry. T<!nth Census, 1880. 26556. 
Lower Silurian ; pink ; crystalliue. Knoxville, Knox County. Crescent quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26557. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 593 

Liinestoiie [marble]. Lowtu' Silurian; pink; crystalline. Near Knoxvillc, Knox 

County. Kuoxvillo Marble Company. Tenth Census, 18d0. 2G.J58. 
LowerSilurian; pink; crystalline. Knoxvillc, Knox County. Quarry of Juliu 

M. Ross. Tenth Census, 1880. 20201). 
Lower Siluriau ; (lull pink ; crystalline. Near Kuoxvillc, Knox County. Quarry 

of J. M. Ross. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G9T5. 

LowerSilurian; light pink ; crystalline. Near Kuoxvillo, Knox County. Teu- 

uessee River Marble Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 2U(i.'>;>. 
Lower Silurian ; red and white mottled ; fossililerous. Near Kuoxvillc, Knox 

County. Tennessee River Marble Comiiany. Tenth Census, 1880. 2rtiJ51. 
LowerSilurian; pink; crystalliuo. 12-inch cube. Kuoxviile, Knox C<»unty. 

Kuoxvillc Marble Comjtany. 17450. 
LowerSilurian; pinkish drab with darkveius; crystalline. About 10 by 10 

by 2J inches. Kuoxvillc, Kiiox County. Kuoxviile Marbli^ Com[)any. Cen- 
tennial, 187G. 17480. 
LowerSilurian; red and while mottled ; fjssiliferous. Knoxvilh*, Knox County. 

Rosebud quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26551). 
Lower Silurian; pink; crystalliuo. Kuoxviile, Knox County. Kuoxvillo 

Marble Comjiany. Tenth Census, 1880. 2(.iG27. 

Reddish brown ; fossil iforous. Third civil district, Knox County. Quarry of 

Harvey »& Brown. T. Tourney, 1881. 25242. 

LowerSilurian; dull red; variegated; fossllifcrous. Slab 24 by 21 by 1^ inches. 

Quarryville, Hawkins County. Centennial, 1870. 25253. 

Lower Silurian; rod and white mottled ; fossilifcrons. 12-iuch cube. Quarry- 
ville, Ilawkius County. Dougherty Marble quarry. Centennial, 187G. 17452. 

Lower Siluriau ; red and white mottled ; fossiliferous. 12-iuch cube. Dough- 

ertyville, Ilawkius County. Centennial, 1870. 17453. 

LowerSilurian; dull red; variegated ; semi-crystalline ; fossil iAno us. Dough- 

ertyvillo, Hawkins County. Col. Edward Clark, 1880. 2.5004. 

Lower Silurian; rod aud white mottled; fossiliferous. 12-inch cube. Dough- 

ertyvillo, Hawkins County. Centennial, 1870. 25240. 

LowerSilurian; dull red aud white mottled ; fossiliferous. Rogorsville, Haw- 
kins County. J. Hassou's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25330. 

LowerSilurian; dull rod and white mottled ; fossiliferous. Rogorsville, Haw- 
kins County. John Hassou's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25338. 

■ — - LowerSilurian; red and white mottled ; fossiliferous. Rogorsville, Hawkins 

County. Quarry of Chesuut it Chesnut. Tenth Census, 1880. 20211. 
Lower Silurian; red and white mottled; fossiliferous. Near Rogorsville, 

Hawkins County. J. I'rice's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 20052. 
Lower Silurian; rod aud white mottled; fossiliferous. Near Rogorsville, 

Hawkins County. J. Wright's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 20805. 
Lower Siluriau ; red and white mottled ; fossiliferous. Two specimens. Near 

Rogorsville, Hawkins County. Colo's Ridgo quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 

26937. 

Lower Siluriau; rod and white mottled; fossiliferous. Two sj)eciuiens. 

Mooresburgh, Hawkins County. E. 1). Dougherty's (juarry. Tenth Census, 
18-30. 20910. 
Magnesian liraeatonG [marble]. Lnvor Silurian; pink; crystalline. Two si)eci- 
mens, light and dark. Cleveland, Bradley (bounty. Quarry of I'alriik & 
Smith. Tenth Census, 1880. 20500. 

ir. Mis. 170, pt. 2 38 



594 liEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Magnesian liuieBtoue [marble]. Lower Silurian : red aud wliito mottli-d ; Co-ssilif- 
eioua. Two specimens, light aud dark. Knosvillo, Knox County. Quarry of 
Thomas & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 26210. 

Lower Silurian; red and white mottled; fossiliferous. Eogersvillo, Hawkins 

County. Quarry of Fulkerson & Chesnutt. Tenth Census, 1880. 26172. 

Lower Silurian ; variegated ; brecciated. Near Calhoun, McMinu County. 

Hiwaesee quarry No. 2. Tenth Census, 1880. 27169. 

Lower Silurian; variegated; brecciated. Near Calhoun, McMinn County. 

Hiwassee quarry No. 2. Tenth Census, 1880. • 27170. 

Lower Silurian ; light variegated ; fossiliferous. Near Calhoun, McMinu 

County. Hiwassee quarry No. 2. Tenth Census, 1880. 27171. 

Lower Silurian ; light variegated ; fossiliferous. Near Calhoun, McMinn 

County. Hiwassee quarry No. 2. Tenth Census, 1880. 27172. 

Lower Silurian; pinkish drab; compact; finely fossiliferous. Near C>alhoun^ 

McMinn County. Hiwassee quarry No. 2. Tenth Census, 1880. 37165. 

Lower Silurian; pinkish drab; compact; finely fossiliferous. Near Calhoun, 

McMinn County. Hiwassee quarry No. 2. Tenth Census, 1880. 27166. 

Lower Silurian; i)inkish drab; compact; finely fossiliferous. Near Calhoun, 

McMinn County. Hiwasseesquarry No. 2. Tenth Census, 1880. 27167. 

Lower Silurian ; pinkish drab; compact; finely fossiliferous. Near Calhoun, 

McMinn County. Hiwassee quarry No. 2. Tenth Census, 1880. 27168. 
Ijimcstons. Light colored; finely fossiliferous. Twenty-fifth district of Davidson 
County. Quarry of Joseph Clus & Bro. Tenth Census, 1880. 27187. 

Carter's Creek, Davidson County. Trehen's Farm.^ Tenth Census, 1880. 

26785. 

Dark blue-gray; compact; fossiliferous. Charlotte Pike, near Nashville, 

Davidson County. Tenth Census, 1880. 26787. 

Dark gray; fossiliferous. Near Nashville, Davidson County. Tenth Census, 

1880. 269T8. 

Lower Silurian; light colored; finely fossiliferous. Near Nashville, Davidson 

County. Capitol quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25538. 

Light colored; coarsely vesicular through the weathering out of fossil shells. 

Nashville, Davidson County. Tenth Census, 1880. 26976. 

Lower Silurian; drab; fossiliferous; cellular. Two specimens. Nashville, 

Davidson County. Vanderbilt quarries. Tenth Census, 1880. 25562. 

Lower Silurian ; drab ; compact. Nashville, Davidson County. Vanderbilt 

quarries. Tenth Census, 1880. 25563. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; light colored ; oolitic. Sherwood Station, Franklin County. 

Swan's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25559. 

Drab ; finely fossiliferous. Near Cowan, Franklin County. Tenth Census, 

1880. 26795. 

Drab ; with light spots. Nolensville Pike, Williamson County. Old quarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26789. 

Light colored ; fine and compact. Nolensville, Williamson County. TeutU 

Census, 1880. 26965. 

Light colored; serai-crystaflline. Columbia, Maury County. Tenth Census, 

1880. 26968. 

Light colored; fossiliferous. Two specimens. Carter's Crook Station, Maury 

County. Tenth Ceufsus, 1880. 26967. 
— — - D.irk drab ; se'iii-frystalliuo. L•.^lJ■llll)n Pike, Wilsou County. Mrs. NichoJ'^ 
.jujirry. Tenth Census, lHr30. 2r.784. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL HTONES. 595 

Limestone. Dark drab; compact. Murfrcc.sl>(irouf;Li, iiutliciiunl Cuiiuty. Tenth 
Ceuaua, ld8U. 2G788. 

Dull red ; fossilifcrons. Near Springfield, Heury County. Biirus's quarry. 

Teuth Cousus, 1880. 235G4. 

Light colored; somi-crystalliuo; compact. NearMorristown, Ilamhieu County. 

M. Carrigor's ixuarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 251)94. 

Light colored ; finely ros.siliferous. Breon's quarry. Teuth Census, 1880. 

2G78G. 

Granite. Coarse; gray. Southcasf part of Carter County. Tenth Census, 1880. 
20777. 

Hornblende gneiss (?). Medium; gray. Ill wassee Copper Mines, Monroe County. 
Teuth Census, 1880. 2G7'j;}. 

Diorite (?). Very compact ; nearly black ; coarsely porpbyritic ; witb scattering crys- 
tals of white feldspar. Carter County. Tenth Census, 1880. 2!)7'J1. 

Sandstone. Fine; dark blue-gray. Carter's Creek, Davidson County. Tentb Census, 
1880. 2G785. 

TUight yellow; soft and porous. Twelfth district of Davidson County. 

.T. SuUivant's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2718.j. 

lied; very ferruginous ; soft and porous. Duektown, Polk County. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 2G9GG. 

Fine; light drab. Chnrcli Mountu'iin, (ira.inger County. Tenth Census, 18.^1). 

26794. 

— — Medium; ligiit colored and pinkish. Two specinuins. Sewanee, Franklin 
County. Tenth Census, 188'?. 2G796. 

Coarse; light brown ; cellular. Parksville, Polk County. Teuth (Census, 

1880. 268:55. 

Fine ; light colored rust spotted. Parksville, Polk County. Teuth Census, 

1880. 26836. 

Conglomerate. Gray pink spotted; very bard and compact. Wolf Creek, ( !ocke 
County. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G77r>. 

Cambrian; greenish gray; fine; very bard and compact. Ocoi^e liiver, Polk 

County. Tenth Census, 1880. 268:33. 

Cambrian; gray; very hard and compact. Owen's IJluff on tbe Ocoee K'ivcr, 

Polk County. Tenth Census, 1880. 26832. 

Slate. Greenish. 4 by 4 by 3 iucbes. Near Duektown, Polk County. Tentb (Jensus, 
1 S80. 269G9. 

TEXAS. 

Limestone [marble]. Light yellow ; conJi)act ; fossiliferous. Near Austin, Travis 
County. Quarry of C. W. Van Resonbury. J. S. F. Batchen, 1884. :35.576. 

Creta(!eous; drab; compact; coarsely fossiliferous. Austin. Travis ('ouiily. 

J. McDonald's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5716. 

Lower Silurian ; light drab, witb puriile v(uus; very line and compaet. Near 

Burnet, Burnet County. Holland's quarry. Tenth Censu,s, 1880. 25720. 

Lower Silurian ; very light drab ; fine and compact. Near San Saba, San Saba 

County. Dr. A. Gregg's quarry. Tentb Census, 1880. 26G92. 

Jilue-gray crystalline. Burnet, Burnet County. A. R. Johnson, 1887. 38819. 

Dolomite [marble]. Dull red, with net- work of ligbter lines. BnriK^t, Burnet 

County. A. Iv.Jobnson, l-i87. ;58820. 
Dolomite. Silurian; l)uir; lino and com[>aet. Near S;in Sab:i., San .Saba. County. 
Dr. A. Gregg's quarry. Teuth Census, 18-^0. 26272. 



596 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Dolomite. Silurimi; fmit; lij^lit coloreil. Near S.iu Siiba, Situ Saba Couuty. Dr. A. 
Gregg's quarry. Tt-uth Census, 1880. 2CG'J1. 

Siluriaa ; light buff ; fme aud compact. Near Sau Saba, Sau Saba County. 

Dr. A. Gregg's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2GG90. 

Lower Silurian ; nearly white; coarsely crystalline. Near San Saba, San Saba 

County. Dr. A. Gregg's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 20693. 

Silurian ; pink ; line aud compact. Near San Saba, Sau Saba County. Dr. A. 

Gregg's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26271. 
Ferruginous dolomite. Silurian ; fine aud compact ; pinkish. Near Sau Saba, 

San Saba County. Dr. A. Gregg's quarry. Tenth Ceusus, 1880. 25720. 
Limestone. Light colored ; fine ; porous. Near Austiu, Travis County. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25723. 

Light colored; fiue ; porous. Near Austiu, Travis County. Tenth Census, 

1880. 25560. 

Cretaceous; light colored; fiiic ; porous. Near Austin, Travis County. G. W. 

Brackiniedge's quarry. Tenth Ceusus, 1880. 25713. 

Ligiit colored ; fine; porous. liouud Kock, Williamson County, ti. W. Davis's 

(piarry. John S. F. Batcheu, 1884. 35577. 

Drab; compact. Near Burnet, Burnet County. Tenth Census, 1880. 25719. 

Magnesian limestone. Cretaceous; light colored; fiue; porous. Near Austin, 

Travis County. J. Sheehau's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25714. 

Cretaceous; light colored; ibssilit'erous. Two speciu)ens. Near Austin, Travis 

County. J. Sheehau's quarry. Tenth Ceusus, 1880. 25715. 

Biotite granite. Fine; pink. Eight miles from Burnet, Burnet County. Tenth 
Ceusus, 1880. 25722. 

Coarse; red. Eight miles from Burnet, Burnet County. Tenth Census, 1880. 

25721. 
Diorite. Medium ; light greeuish gray. Near El Paso, El Paso County. ,1. S. F. 

Batchen, 1883. 28585. 
Sandstone. Lower Silurian ; coarse brown. Near Burnet, Burnet County. Tenib 

Cinisus, 1880. 25717. 

Lower Silurian; coarse; dull red. Near Burnet, Bui'uet County. Tenth Cen- 

sus, 1880. 25718. 

Carboniferous; fine; very light gray. 4 by ;>^ by 3 inches. Near Mormon 

Mills, Burnet County. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5724. 



Limestone [marble]. White; dark mottled; crystalline. Near Payson, Utah 

County. Tenth Census, 1860. 25398. 
Dolomite [marble]. "Black, with white Ibssils. Near P.iyson, Utah County. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25452. 
Limestone. Drab; fine and compact. Near Payson, Utah County. Tenth Ceusus, 

1880. 254.53. 
Light colui'ed ; porous. San Pete Valhiy. Tenth Census, 1880. 25352. 

Hornblende biotite granite. Coarse; light gray. Two miles south of Salt Lake 
City. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.5351. 

This stone was used in the construction of the new Mormon temple at Salt 
Lake City. 
Sandstone. Fine; light pink. Near l?(;d Butte, Salt Lake County. Tenth Census, 
1880. 25399. 



BtJILDINa AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 597 

Sanustone. Fiue ; very light, ]iiiilc. KimI r.iitt(>, 'Ji miles e.i.st of Salt Lake City. 
Teuth Census, 18d0. 2.') 100. 

VERMONT. 

Steatite [soapstone]. Fine; compact; light blue-gray. Grafton. Centennial, 18TG. 
17561). 

Coarse; compact; blnc-gr.iy. Towiusend, Windham County. Uemis's (jnarry. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 'JfiGSG. 

Serpentine [opliiolite, verd-autique marble]. Green; white vein(>(l. Takes a high 
polish. Eoxbury, Washington County. S. G. Emory, Washington, J). C, ISS;;. 
!>7824. 

Green ; white veined. Takes a high polish. 5^ by 4 J by 1 inch. Roxbnry, 

Wa.sliiugton County. S. G. Emory, Washington, D. C, 188:5. 2782.'). 

Dark green, witli white veins. Takes a high polisli. IHby 11} l)y fj inches. 

Roxbnry, Washington County. Centennial, 1870. 17389. 
Limestone [marble]. Turned column and urn, about 10 inches at base by 70 inches 
higli, of white, dark-veined, crj'stalline limestone, Rutland, Rutland County. 
Centennial, 1376. 2G013. 

Turned column, about 10 inches at base by 50 inches bigli, of dark blue-gray 

crystalline limestone. Rutland, Rutland County. Centennial, 1876. 26014. 

Turned vase, about 10 by 19 inches. Gray mottled crystalline limestone. Rut- 

land, Rutland County. Centennial, 1876. 26010. 

Turned column and urn, about 8 indies at base by 36 inches high, of blue- 

gray and white-mottled crystalline limestone. Rutland, Rutland County. 
Centennial, 1876. 26017. 

Flooring tiles, set in a black walnut frame. Size, 3 feet square. The following 

marbles are represented, all from Vermont : Common white, Isle La Motte 
black, and red and white variegated from Swanton and Mallet's Bay. Cen- 
tennial, 1876. 17447. 

Flooring tiles, set in frame as above, comprising the following marbles: Ver- 

mont white; Isle La Motte black ; Swanton and Mallet's Bay red and white 
variegated; Clinton, N. Y., gray ; and Glen's Falls black. Centennial, 1876. 
17448. 

Lower Silurian. Dark blue-gray mottled. Tliree specimens. West Rutland, 

Rutland County. Esperanza Marble Company, 1884. 36833. 

Lower Silurian. Dark blue-gray and white mottled; crystalline. About 16 by 

38 by i inches. West Rutland. Esperanza Marble Company, 1884. 36848. 

Lower Silurian. 10 by 10 by G inches. Blue-gray and white mottled ; crystal- 

line. West Rutland, Rutland County. Centennial, 1876. 17387. 

Lower Silurian. White and dark mottled ; crystalline. Three specimens. 

West Rutland, Rutland County. Ccduinbian Marble'Company. Tenth Cen- 
sus, 1880. 2.5710. 

Lower Silurian. Blue-gray; crystalline. About 10 by 10 by 5J inches. West 

Rutland, Rutland County. Columbian Marble Company. Centcnni.al, 1876. 
17385. 

Lower Silurian. Gray and white mottled; crystalline. About 10 by 10 by G 

inches. West Rutland, Rutland County. Columbian Marble Compan.y. 
Centennial, 1876. 17380. 

Lower Silurian. White; crystalline. 12-inch cube. West Rutland, Rutland 

County. Eureka Marble Company. Centennial, 187(i. 17388. 

Lower Silurian. Light blue; dark veined; crystalline. West Rutland, Rut. 

land County. Rutland Marble Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25730. 



598 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Limestone [marble]. Lownr Silurian. Pnrowhito; crystalline; statuary marble. 
West Rutland, Rutland County. Rutland Marble Company. Tenth Census, 
lf^80. 25731. 

Lower Silurian. White ; dark sjiotted ; crystalline. West Rutland, Rutland 

County. Rutland Marble Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25732. 

Lower Silurian. Blue-gray and white mottled ; crystalline. About 10 hy 10 

l»y 6 inches. West Rutland', Rutland County. Columbian Marble Company. 
Centennial, 1876. 17380. 

Lower Silurian. Blue-gray and white mottled ; crystalline. About 10 by 10 

by 6 inches. West Rutland, Rutland County. Columbian Marble Company. 
Centennial, 187G. 17381. 

Lower Silurian. Blue-gray and white mottled; crystalline. About 8J by 6 

inches. West Rq^land, Rutland County. Columbian Marble Company. 
Centennial, 1876. 17382. 

Lower Silurian. White ; dark veined ; crystalline. About 8^ by 8^ by 6 inches. 

West Rutland, Rutland County. Columbian Marble Comi)any. Centennial, 
1876. 17384. 

Lower Silurian. White; dark veined; crystalline. About 10 by 10 by 6 inches. 

West Rutland, Rutland County. Columbian Marble Company. Centennial, 
1876. 17384. 

Lower Silurian. Blue-gray and white mottled ; crystalline. About 10 by 10 

hy 6 inches. West Rutland, Rutland County. Columbian Marble Company. 
Centennial, 1876. 17361. 

Lower Silurian. White ; crystalline. About 10 by 9^ by 6 inches. West Rut- 

land, Rutland County. Columbian Marble Company. Centennial, 1876. 17362. 

Lower Silurian. White; dark veined; crystalline. About 10 by 9 by 6 inches. 

West Rutland, Rutland County. Columbian Marble Company. Centennial, 
1876. 17364. 

Lower Silurian. Biuo-gray mottled ; crystalline. About 10 by 10 by 6 inches. 

West Rutland, Rutland County. Columbian Marble Company. Centennial, 
1876. 17365. 

Lower Silurian. White ; dark spotted ; crystalline. About 10 by 10 by 6 inches. 

West Rutland, Rutland County. Columbian Marble Company. Centennial, 
1876. 17366. 

Lower Silurian. Blue-graj- ; white mottled ; crystalline. About 8-J by 6 inches. 

West Rutland, Rutland County. Columbian Marble Company. Centennial, 
1876. 17376. 

Lower Silurian. White; dark veined; crystalline. About 10 by 10 by 6 inches. 

West Rutland, Rutland County. Columbian Marble Company. Centennial, 
1876. 17377. 

Lower Silurian. Gray and white mottled. About 10 by 10 by 6 inches. West 

Rutland, Rutland County. Columbian Marble Company. Centennial, 1876. 
17378. 

Lower Siluri;i,n. Blue-gray and white mottled ; crystalline. About 8 by 8 by 

4 inches. West Rutland, Rutland County. Centenni.-il, 1876. 26015. 

Lower Silurian; blue-gray and white, mottled ; crystalline. About 12 by 12 by 

8 inches. West Rutland, Rutland County. Centennial, 1876. 26027. 

Lower Silurian ; white crystalline. West Rutland, Rutland County. Quarry 

of Sherman & Slason. Tenth Census, 1880. 25802. 

Lower Silurian; white, green- veined ; crystalline. Two specimens. West 

Rutland, Rutland County. Quarry of Sherman & Slason. Tenth Census, 
1880. 25803. 



InJILDI^"G AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 51)9 

Limestone [marble,]. Lowor Silmian; pnro whito; crystallino. Wost Rutland. 
Rutlaiul County. Quarry of Gibson & Woo.lfin. Tenth Census, 1880. 25731. 

Lower Silurian; light blue; dark veined; cryatalliue. West Rutland, lint- 

land County. Quarry of Gibson & Woodtiu. Tenth Census, 1880. 'if)?:?:'). 

Lower Silurian; ^''•'•'y ^^^ white, mottled; crystalline. 12-inch cube. West 

Rutland, Rutland County. Ceutennial, 1876. 25217. 

Lower Silurian ; light blue, dark veined ; crystalline. West Rutland, Rutland 

County. Quarry of Sheldon & Slason. Tenth Census, 1880. 25728. 

Lower Silurian; white; crystallino. Marble slab, about 3 feet by 11 by 18 

inches; used as a shelf. West Rutland, 1876. 17341). 

Lower Silurian; white; crystalline. Marble slab, about 3 feet by 11 by 18 

inches; used as a shelf. West Rutland, 1876. 17350. 

Lower Silurian; white; crystalline. Marble slab, about 3 feet by 11 by 18 

inches ; used as a shelf. West Rutland, 1876. 17351. 

Lower Silurian; white; crystalline. Marble slab, about 3 feet by 11 by IH 

inches ; used as a shelf. West Rutland, 1876. 17340. 

Lower Silurian ; white ; groen veined ; crystalline. 12-inch cube. West Rut- 

land, Rutland County. Centennial, 1876. 17458. 

Lower Silurian; water blue-; dark veined; crystalline. 12-inch cube. West 

Rutland, Rutland County. Rutland Marble Company. Centennial, 187(i. 
17460. 

Lower Silurian ; white; green veined ; crjsstalline. 12-inch cube. West Rut- 

land, Rutland County. Rutland Marble Company. Centennial, 1876. 17461. 

Lower Silurian ; white ; crystalline. West Rutland, Rutland County. Cen- 

tennial, 1876. 17390. 

Lower Silurian; white; groen veined; crystalline. West Rutland, Rutland 

County. Centennial, 1876. 17391. 

Lower Silurian ; pure white ; crystalline. 12-inch cube. West Rutland, Rut- 

land County. Rutland Marble Company. Centennial, 1876. 17451. 

Lower Silurian ; pure white ; crystalline. 12-inch cube. West Rutland, Rut- 

land County. Rutland Marble Company. Centennial, 1876. 17454. 

Lower Silurian; wliite; crystalline. 12-inch cube. West Rutland, Rutland 

County. Rutland Marble Company. Centennial, 1876. 17455. 

Lower Silurian; white; green veined; crystalline. 12-inch cube. West Ivi-; 

land, Rutland County. Centennial, 1876. 17456. 

Lower Silurian ; white; green veined; crystalline. 12-inch cube. West Rut- 

land, Rutland County. Rutland Marble Company. Centennial, 187(). 174.59. 

Lower Silurian ; white ; crystalline. West Rutland, Rutlaiul County. Rut- 

land Marble Compa^y. Centennial, 1876. 17392. 

Lower Silurian; white; green reined; crystalline. West Rutland, Rutland 

County. Rutland Marble Company. Centennial, 1876. 17393. 

Lower Silurian; light blue; dark veined; crystalline. West Rutland, Rut- 
land County. Rutland Marble Company. C<5ntennial, 1876. 17395. 

Lower Silurian ; li<|ilit blue ; white s^totted ; cryatalliue. West Rutland, Rut- 

land County. Rutland Marble Company. Centennial, 1876, I739i). 

Lower Silurian; white; dark veined; crj-^tallino. West Rutland, Rutland 

County. Rutlaiul Marble Company. Centennial, 1876. 17397. ' 
Lower Silurian; pure white; crystalline. West Riitlan d, Rutland County. 

Rutland Marble Company. Centennial, 1876. 17398. 
Lower Silurian; pure white; crystalline. West Rutland, Rutland County. 

Rutland Marble Company. Centennial, 1876. 17400. 



600 RErORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Limestone [marble]. Lower Silniian ; white; dark spotted; crystalliuo. West 

Eiitlaud, Rutlaud County. Centemiial, 187G. 17394. 
Lower Silurian; white; dark veined; crystalline. 10-inch cube. Centre Rut- 
land, Eutlaud County. Eureka Marble Company, Centennial, IJ^TG. 17356. 

Lower Silurian; white; dark spotted; crystalli-ne. 12-inch cube. Centre 

Eutlaud, Eutlaud County. Eureka Marble Company. Centennial, 187G. 

17357. 
White ; crystalline. Slab about 2 feet 9 inches high, 2 feet wide, and 2 inches 

thick. Centre Eutland, Eutlaud County. Centennial, 187G. 17341. 
White; crystallino. Slab about 2 feet 9 inches high, 2 feet wide, and 2 inches 

thick. Ccutro Eutland, Eutland CountjT, Centennial, 1870. 17343. 
White; crystalline. Slab about 2 feet 9 inches high, 2 feet wide, and 2 inches 

thick. Centre Eutland, Eutland County. Centennial, 1876. 17345. 
Lower Silurian; white; dark veined; crystalline. lO-incli cube. Centre Eut- 
laud, Eutlaud County. Centennial, 1870. 17355. 
Crystalline; white; green vciued. Slab about 2 feet 9 inches by 2 feet wide 

by 2 inches thick. Centre Eutland. Centennial, 1876. 17338. 
Lower Silurian; pure white; crystalline. Two specimens. Pittsford, Eutlaud 

County. Pittsford Marble Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25690. 
Lower Silurian; white; dark veined; crystalline. 12-inch cube. Pittsford, 

Eutland County. Burlington Manufacturing Comjiany. Centennial, 1876. 

17468. 

Lower Silurian ; water-blue; crystalline. 12-inch cube. North Pittsford, Eut- 
laud County. Burlington Manufacturing Company. Ceutenuial, 1876. 
17464. 

Lower Silurian; white; dark veined; crystalline. 12-inch cube. North 

Pittsford, Eutland County. Burlington Manufacturing Company. Centen- 
nial, 1876, 174G6. 

Lower Silurian; white; dark veined; crystalline. About 12 by 12 by 12 

inches. North Pittsford, Eutlaud Couuty. Burlington Manufacturing Com- 
pany. Centennial, 1876. -17467. 

Lower Silurian ; pure white ; fine crystalline. South Wallingford, Rutland 

County. William W. Kelley's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26300. 

Lower Silurian ; 10 by 10 by 6 inches ; white, dark veined ; crystalline. Suther- 

land Falls, Eutland County. Centennial, 1876. 17358. 

Lower Silurian, white, dark spotted ; crystallino. Sutherland Falls, Eutlaud 

County. Centennial, 1876. 17509. 

Lower Silurian ; white, dark veined ; crystalline. Sutherland Falls, Eutland 

Couuty. Centennial, 1876. 17500. 

Lower Silurian ; white, dark s^iotted; crystalline. Sutherland Falls, Eutland 

County. Centennial, 1876. 17501. 

Lower Silurian ; white, dark spotted; crystalline. About 10 by 10 by 8 inches. 

Sutherland Falls, Eutlaud Company ; Sutherland Falls Marble Company. 
Centennial, 1876. 17369. 

Lower Silurian ; white, dark spotted ; crystalline. 12-inch cube. Sutherland 

Falls, Eutland Couuty. Centennial, 1876. 17370. 

Lower Silurian; white, dark veined; crystalline. About 8^ by 6 inches. 

Sutherland Falls, Eutland County. Centennial, 1876. 17371. 

Lower Silurian; white, dark spotted ; crystalline. 12-inch cube. Sutherland 

Falls, Eutland County. Centennial, 1876. 17373. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. GOl 

LiniGSionc [mmble]. Lower Silurian ; wliito; crystalline. Suthorland Falls, Rut- 
land County. Centennial, 187(5. 17502. 

Lower Silurian; white, dark mottled; crystalline. Sutherland Falls, Rut- 

land County. Centennial, 187G. 17503. 

Lower Silurian ; white, dark veined ; crystalline. Sutherland Falls, Rutland 

County. Centennial, 187(5. 1750(5. 

Lower Silurian ; blue and white mottled ; crystalline. Sutherland Falls, Rut- 

land County. Centennial, 187G. 17507. 

Lower Silurian ; white, dark veined; crystalline. Sutherland Falls, Rutland 

County. Centennial, 187(5. 17508. 

Lower Silurian ; white, dark veined ; crystalline. 12-inch cnlx'. Sutherland 

Falls, Rutland County; Sutherland Falls Marble Company. Centennial, 
187G. 17374. 

Lower Silurian ; white, dark spotted ; crystalline. 12-inch cube. Southerland 

Falls, Rutland County. Centennial, 1876. 17359. 

Lower Silurian; dark ^^ray ; fossiliferous. Isle La Motto, Grand Isle County. 

(Quarry of Fiske and lic-ffney. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G'J2G. 

Lower Silurian ; white; crystalline. Dorset, Bennington County. Quarry of 

Freedly & Son. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G273. 

Lower Silurian; white; crystalline. Dorset, Bennington County. S. F. 

Prince's (puirry. Tenth Census, 1880. 20274. 

Lower Silurian; white; crystalline. Dorset, Bennington County. Quarry of 

S. F. Prince & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G733. 

Lower Silurian ; white, dark spotted; crystalline. 12-inch cube. East Dor- 

set, Bennington County. Centennial, 187G. 25087. 

Lower Silurian ; white, dark spotted ; crystalline. lOinchcube. East Dorset, 

Bennington County. Centennial, 187G. 17462. 

Lower Silurian ; white, dark veined ; crystalline. Rutland, Rutland County. 

Quarry of Flint Bros. & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 25805. 

Lower Silurian; wdiite, dark veined; crystalline. Two specimens. RutlaTid, 

Rutland County. Quarry of Flint Bros. & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 2573(!. 

Lower Silurian; pure white; crystalline; statuary marble. West Rutland, 

Rutland County. Quarry of Sheldon & Slason. Tenth Census, 1880. 25729. 

Lower Silurian ; white; crystalline. Pittsford, Rutland County. Quarry of 

F. W. Smith & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 26G74. 

Lower Silurian; light blue and white; crystalline. Pittsford, Rutland County. 

Quarry of F. W. Smith & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 2GG75. 

Lower Silurian ; white, dark spotted ; crystalline. Pittsford, Rutland County. 

Quarry of F. W. Smith & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 26G7G. 

Lower Silurian ; white, dark veined ; crystalline. Pittsford, Rutland County. 

George E. Hall's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25G92. 

Lower Silurian; white, dark spotted; crystalline. South Wallingford, Rut 

land County. William W. Kelley's quarry. Tenth Census, 1380. 2(5677. 

Lower Silurian ; light blue, and white mottled ; crystalline. Two specimens. 

Sontli Wallingford, Rutland County. William W. Kelley's quarry. Tenth 
Census, 1880. 215678. 

Lower Silurian ; pure white; crystalline; statuary marble. Brandon, Rutland 

County. Brandon Statuary Marble Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25(;8'.). 

Lower Silurian; white, dark veined; crystalline. East Dorset, Bennington 

County. Quarry of D. L. Kent & Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G275. 



602 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

Limcstcne [marble]. Lower Silurian ; white, dark veined ; crystalline. New Tla- 
ven, A<l(lisoii County. Cutter Marble Company. Tcntli Census, 1880. 27034. 

Lower Silurian; Frencli gray; very fine and compact. Swanton, Franklin 

County. Quarry of George and E. L. Barney. Tenth Census, 1880. 26928. 

Lower Silurian ; gray and -white mottled. About 10 by 10 by 6 inches. West 

Rutland, Rutland Countv. Columbian Marble Comjiany. Centennial, 1876. 
17379. 

Lower Silurian ; white, dark veined ; crystalline. About Si by 6 inches. West 

Rutland, Rutland County. Columbian Marble Company. Centennial, 1876. 
17360. 

Lower Silurian ; water-blue; dark veined ; crystalline. 12-inch cube. West 

Rutland, Rutland County. Rutland Marble Corai>any. Centennial, 1876. 
17459. 

Lower Silurian; white green veined; crystalline. West Rutland, Rutland 

County. Rutland Marble Company. Centennial, 1876. 17399. 

Lower Silurian; white dark veined; crystalline. About 10 by 10 by 7^ 

inches. Sutherland Falls, Rutland County. Centennial, 1876. 17367. 
Magnesian limestone. Lower Silurian ; dark gray, nearly black ; fossiliferaus. 
Isle La Motte, Grand Isle County. Quarry of Goodsell & Hursh. Tenth Cen- 
sus, 1880. 26185. 

Lower Silurian ; gray; fine grained; fossiliferous. Isle La Motte, Grand Isle 

County. Tenth Census, 1880. 26186. 

Lower Silurian ; dark gray ; compact ; fossiliferous. Isle La Motte, Grand Isle 

County. Quarry of Ira & J. P. Hall. Tenth Census, 1880. 26188. 

Lower Silurian ; blue-black ; compact. Isle La Motte, Grand Isle County. 

Quarry of Ira & J. P. Hall. Tenth Census, 1880. 26189. 

Lower Silurian ; dark gray ; compact ; fossiliferous. Isle La Motte, Grand Isle 

County. Quarry of H. C. Fisk & Son. Tenth Census, 1880. 26190. 

Lower Silurian ; blue-black ; compact. Isle La Motte, Grand Isle County. 

Quarry of II. C. Fisk & Son. Tenth Census, 1880. 26191. 

Lower Silurian; dark gray; fine and compact. Isle La Motte, Grand Isle 

County. Burlington Manufa(;turing Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26673. 

Lower Silurian ; dark gray ; fossiliferous. Isle L.a Motte, Grand Isle County. 

Quarry of Fiske & Barney. Centennial, 1876. 17420. 

Lower Silurian; black; compact; fossiliferous. Isle La Motte, Grand Isle 

County. Quarry of Fiske & Barney. Centennial, 1876. 17421. 

Lower Silurian ; nearly black ; fossiliferous. 12-inch cube. Isle La Motte, 

Grand Isle County. Quarry of Fiske & Barney. Centennial, 1876. 17422. 
Dolomite [marble]. Cambrian; pink and gray mottled; fine; compact. Mallet's 
Bay, Chittenden County. Centennial, 1876. 17495. 

Cambrian; light red mottled; fine and compact. About .5^ by 5^ by 2^ 

inches. Mallet's Bay, Chittenden County. Centennial, 1876. 17496. 

Cambrian ; pink mottled. About 7 by 7i by 7i inches. Mallet's Bay, Chit- 

tenden, County. Centennial, 1876. 17497. 

Cambrian; red mottled, 6-inch cube. Mallet's Bay, Chittenden County 

Centennial, 1876. 17489. 

Cambrian; dark pink; fine and oompact. About 4 by 4 by 2^ inches. Mal- 

let's Bay, Chittenden County. Centennial, 1876. 17490. 

■ Cambrian ; pink mottled ; fine and compact. Mallet's Bay, Chittenden 

County. Centennial, 1876, Two specimens. 17493. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 603 

Dolomite [marble]. Ciunlniau ; red mottled ; line and coiupiict. Ahoiit 4.J by 1 by 

2 inches. Mallet'.s Bay, Chittondon County. Centennial, 187G. 1749-i. 
Cambrian; red mottled; fine; compact. About OJ by 7^ by 2 inches. Mal- 
let's Bay, Chittenden County. Centennial, 1876. 17494. 

Cambrian; red mottled ; fine and compact. Mallet's Bay, Chittenden County. 

Centennial, 1876. 25200. 

Cambrian; red and white mottled; line and compact. Swauton, Franklin 

County. Quarry of George and R. L. Barney. Tenth Censu.s, 1880. 2()i;»2'J. 

Cambrian; red and white mottled ; 12-inch cube. Svvanton, Franklin County. 

Centennial, 1876. 17416. 

Lower Silurian; red and white mottled ; tine and comjiact. Svvanton, Frank- 

lin County. George Barney's quarry. Centennial, 1876. 17419. 

Cambrian ; red and white mottled ; hue and compact. Swantou, Franklin 

County. Quarry of George and R. L. Barney. Tenth Census, 1880. 2()927. 
Biotite granite. Medium; gray. Near Woodbury, Washingt<m County. Quarry 

of J. Ainsworth & Son. Tenth Census, 1880. 25581. 
— — Medium ; dark gray. Near Woodbury, Washington County. C. W. Cilley'.s 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25582. 

Medium; dark gray. Near Woodbury, W.ashiiigton County. C. W. Ciiley's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26647. 

Medium; gray. Barre, Washington County. Quarry of Wetmore &, Morse. 

Teuth Census, 1880. 25584. 
Medium; gray. Barre, Washington County. E. L. Smith's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25585. 

Medium; gray. Barre, Washington County. G. W. Mann's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25586. 

Fine; gray. Foot cube. Barre, Washington County. Centennial, 1876. 

17478. 

Fine; dark gray. Brunswick, Essex County. Saint Johnsbury Granite Com- 

pany, Tenth Census, 1880. 26184. 
Muscovite granite. Finc^ ; very light gray, nearly white. Bethel, Windsor County. 

E. Kittredgo's <iuarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25566. 
Fine; very light gray, nearly white. Bethel, Wind.sor County. Quarry of 

E. Sturtevant & Co. Tenth Census, 1830. 255(;7. 
Fine; very light gray, nearly white. Foot cube. Bethel, Windsor County. 

Centennial, 1876. 17469. 

Biotite muscovite granite. Medium; light gray. Ryegate, Caledonia County. 
R. W. Laird's quarry. Tenth Cinisus, 1880. 2618:5. 

Coar.se; gray. Ryegate, Caledonia County. R. F. Carter's quarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26487. 

Slate. Cambrian; blue-black. Two specinunis. Northliold, Washington Coutitw 
Adams Slate and Tile CoMipany. Tenth Census, 1880. 25587. 

Cambrian; brownish gray. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Castleton, Rutland County. 

Eagle Slate Conii>any. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.^)807. 

Cambrian; green and puri)le. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Castleton, Rutland County, 

Eagle Slate Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25808. 
Cambrian ; greenish. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Castleton, Rutland County. Eagle 

Slato Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25809. 
— — Cambrian; greenish. 4 by 4 by 1} inches. Castleton, Riitl.uHi County. Blue 

Slate Company. Tenth Census, li80. 25H10. 



604 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 18S6. 

Slate. Ciirubrian ; greenish. 4 by 4 by 3 inches. Fair TIaven, Rutland County. 
Quarry of P. Roberts. Tenth Census, 1880. 20811. 

Cambrian; purple. 4 by 4 by IJ inches. Two specimens. Castleton, Rutland 

County. Quarry of Clifford & Litchfield. Tenth Census, 1880. 25813. 

Cambrian ; purple. Castleton, Rutland County. Quarry of R. Conway. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25814. 

Cambrian; purple. 4 by 4 by ^ inches. Castleton, Rutland County. Snow- 
den Siate Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25815. 

Cambriau ; blue-black. Castleton, Rutland County. Lake Shore Company. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25816. 

Cambrian; greenish. Poultney, Rutland County. Evergreen Slate Company. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 25817. 

Cambrian; reddish. Fair JIaven, Rutlaud County. Quarry of Griffiths Owen 

&Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 25818; 

Cambrian ; red. 4 by 4 by 1 J inches. Rutland, Rutland County. Quarry of 

L. Owens & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 25953. 

Cambrian ; green. 4 by 4 by 1^ inches. Poultnej', Rutland County. Quarry 

of L. Owens & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 25954. 

Cambrian ; blue-black. 4 by 4 by 2 inches. Two specimens. Poultney, Rut- 
land County. Globe Slate Company, Tenth Census, 1880. 25955. 

— — Cambrian; greenish. 4 by 4 by 2 inches. Two specimens. Poultney, Rutland 
County. Quarry of J. Evans & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 25956. 

Cambrian; green. 4 by 4 by 2 inches. Poultney, Rutland County. Macgrath's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25970. 

Cambrian; green. 4 by 4 by 1| inches. Poultney, Rutland County. Quarry 

of D. Culver. Tenth Census, 1880. 25971. 

Cambrian ; greenish. 4 by 4 by ^ inches. Pawlet, Rutland County. M. 

Welch's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26039. 

Cambrian; green. 4 by 4 by 2^ inches. Pawlet, Rutland County. Quarry 

of W. J. Evans. Tenth Census, 1880. 26040. 

Cambrian; green. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Pawlet, Rutland County. J.S.War- 

ren's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26041. 

Cambrian; greenish. 4 by 4 by 2 inches. Pawlet, Rutland County. Quarry 

of H. J. Williams. Tenth Census, 1880. 26042. 
Cambrian; purple. 4 by 4 by 1| inches. Pawlet. Rutland County. E.R.Nor- 
ton's quarry. Tenth Census, 1830. 26043. 

Cambrian ; green. West Pawlet, Rutland County. Brownell Slate and Flag- 

ging Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26044. 

Cambriau ; green. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. West Pawlet, Rutland County. Quarry 

of H. W. Hughes. Tenth Census, 1880. 26045. 

Cambrian; green. 4 by 4 by 2n"chos. West Pawlet, Rutland County. Quar- 

ry of Rising & Nelson. Tenth Census, 1880. 26046. 

^ Cambrian ; greenish. 4 by 4 by 2J inches. West Pawlet, Rutland County. 

Quarry of O. Evans & Son. Tenth Census, 1880. 26047. 

Cambrian; greenish. 4 by 4 by 1, and 4 by 4 by 2 inches. Two specimens. 

West Pawlet, Rutland County. H. Dillingham's quarry. Tenth Census, 
1880. 26048. 

Cambrian; blue-black. Slab 8 inches square. Dummerston, Windham County. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26160. 

Cambrian; blue-black. 4 by 4 by 2 inches. 8 miles from Brattleborough, Wind- 

liam County. T. Jolinsou'.s quarry. Tenth Census, IBSO. 25161. 



BUILDING AND OivNAMENTAL STONES. 605 

Slate. Ctimbiiau ; green. 4 by 4 by 1^ iiiuheis. Two speciiiieiis. roultuey, Iviithmil 
Comity. Eureka quarry. TeuUi Census, 1680. 27183. 



Steatite [soapstoiie]. Modiiiin; coinpaet; blue-gray. Near Ijaugley, Fairfax 
Comity. Tenth Census, 1880. 2r)2.j4. 

Very light colored, schistose. Near Falls Cliureh, I*airtax County. E. L. 

Howard, 1883. 28041). 

Gypsum. Coarse; gray; wliite mottled. Saltvillo, Smyth County Holston Sale 
and IMaster Company. Centennial, 1870. 2712i). 

White; dark veined. Saltviile, Smyth County. Quarriea of Stuart & Palmer. 

Centennial, 1876. 27153. 

Limestone [stalagmitic marble]. About 13 by 8 inches. Luray, Page County. 
From Luray Cave. Gift of Henry llorau, 1835. 37043. 

About 14| by 10|^ by 7^ inches. Luray, Pago County. From Luray Cave. 

Robert Corson, 1861. 250:57. 

About 4| by 3J by 3| inches. Luray, Page County. From Luray Cave. Robert 

Corson, 1881. 25374. 

Limestone [stalagmite marble]. Light brown. 4^ by 2 by 1 inches. Rockbridge 
County. U. S. General Land Office, 1882. 27268. 

A polished slab 14 by 15 by ^ inches, mounted in a black frame. Taken from a 

small cave that had become completely lilled up by the stalagmitic deposit. 
Locality, about 20 miles uorthwest from Lexington, Rockbridge County. 
Dr. George W. Ilawes. 20434. 

Limestone [marble]. Cress-section of a stalagmite. Oval in shape; about 8.} by 6 
by 2 inches. Luray Cave, Page County. Robert R. Corson, 1881. 27050. 

Pink, crystalline. Near Aldio, Loudoun County. Miss Carter's quarry. E. 

Howard, 1883. 36788. 

Ul)per Silurian. Gray with pink spots; fossiliferona. Craigsville, Augusta 

County. Coral Marble Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25481. 

Upper Silurian. Reddish; fossiliferous; eomi-crystallino. Craigsville, Augusta 

County. Craig's quarry. Tenth Census. 25598. 
Dolomite [marble]. Red; finely crystalline. Madison Run Station, Orange County. 
H. T. & W.G.Douglass, 1882. 261)89. 

Calcareous Dolomite [marble]. Palo ; pink ; crystalline. Loudoun County. Lou- 
doun County Marble Quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27073. 

Marble. Red and green mottled. G by 4 by 1 inches. Ashby's Gap, Cumberland 
County. A. S. Payne's quarry. Centennial, 187(!. 27198. 

Magnesian Limestone [marble]. Ui)per Silurian. Gray, with pink spots , fossil- 
iferous. Craigsville, Augusta County. Coral Marble Company. Tenth Census, 
1880. 25482. 

Gray, and dark-blue gray, nearly black. Two specimens. Near Natural 

Bridge, Rockbridge County. J. G. Steele's (juarry. Tenth Census, l8dU. 
20752. 

Biotite granite. Medium; gray and greenish gray. Two specinuius. Namozin 
district, Dinwiddle County. D. W. Lassiter's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.j27H. 

Medium; greenish gray. Namozin district, l)inwi(l(li(! County. Maylield 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25279. 

Medium; gray. Granite, Chesterfield County, Old Dominion Granite Conj- 

I'auy. Tenth Census, 1880. 2.527iJ. 



606 EEPORT ON NATIONAl> MUSEUM, 188G. 

Biotite graiiite. Modium; gray. TwoHiK-ciiiiens. MiiiichcMtcr, Cliestcrticld County. 
Wostbani Grauito Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25271. 

Fine; gray. Tuckahoe district, Henrico County. Quarry of J. B. M^tcliel 

& Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 25269. 

Medium; gray. Near Richmond, Henrico County. Richmond Granite Com- 

pany. Tenth Census, 1880. 25270. 
Muscovite granite. Medium; light gray. Near Fredericksburgh, Spottsylvauia 

County. E. J. Loyburu's quarry. Tenth Census, 1680. 252G3. 
Biotite gneiss. Fine; dark gray; two specimens. Lyncbburgh, Campbell County. 

Fishing Creek Quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25280. 
Biotite schist. Fine ; dark gray. Near Chain Bridge, Fauquier County. Gillu'rt's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25289. 
Amphibolite. Compact; dark gretsn. Lyncbburgh, Campbell County. R. Evans, 

1884. 35908. 
Diabase. Mosozoic. Medium; dark gray. Used only for street pavements; tliree 

miles from Leosburgh, Loudoun County. T. W. Edwards' quarry Tenth Census, 

1880. 259G3. 

Mesozoic. Fine; dark gray. Near Catletts Station, Fauquier County. Used 

only for street pavements. Fauquier quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25341. 
Sandstone. .Juro-Cretaceous, Light colored, soft and friable. Acquia Creek, Staf- 
ford County. Colonel Edward Clark, 1881. 25007, 

Fine; very light brown. Saltville, Washington County. Centennial, 1870. 

27131. 

Triassic. Light reddish-brown; fine. Manassas, Prince William County. 

Mayiield Brownstone Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 27243. 
Slate. Blue-black. Slab 8 inches square. Now Canton, Buckingham County. 
Quarry of Edwards & Roberts. Tenth Census, 1880. 25275. 

Blue-black. Slab 8 inches sfjuare. New Canton, Buckingham County. Quarry 

of J. R. Williams & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 25277. 

WEST VIRGINIA. 

Limestone [marble]. Light gray; coarse. Near Snyder's Mills, Jefferson County. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2(3100. 
Magne.sian limestone [marble]. Coarsely variegated, crystalline. Near Dam No. 

4, .Jefferson and Berkeley Counties. Snyder's Mills quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 

26101. 
Sandstone. Medium; light colored. Wheeling, Ohio County. Qnarry of Schule 

& Lotz. Tenth Census, 1880. 25G59. 

Coarse; buff. Near Grafton, Taylor County. Grafton quarries. Tenth Census, 

1880. 2G849. 

Fine ; dark gray. Rowlesburgh, Preston County. Quarry of Sullivan & Peat. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 2G850. 

Carboniferous ; medium ; light colored. Near Charleston, Kanawha County. 

Connor's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26949. 

Carboniferous, medium ; light gray. Near Charleston, Kanawha County. J. 

T. Quarrier's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26950. 

Carboniferous; medium; light colored. Near Charleston, Kanawha County. 

"Coon-Skin" quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26952. 

' Medium; light colored. Parke isbnrgh. Wood County. ''I'olo Cat" quarry* 

Tenth Census, l«cO, 2G9G3, 



inilLDINd AND OKNAMIONTAL STONES. GOT 

Saudstoiie. Dull red; fiiio and (',()mi)a(!t. Bcrkolcy Spriiijjs, M<>r<^iiii County. IMiilip 
Pondlctoii. 30829. 

WASHINGTON TEUUITOUY. 

Sandstone. Carboniferous; flue; gray. Bellingliain Bay, Wliatconi County. Quarry 
of C. Scidcl & Co. Tenth Censu8, 1880. 26248, 

Carbouiforoiis; t'uu:; gray. Chnkauut Bay, Whatcom County. Quarry of C. 

Seidel & Co, Tenth Census, 1880. 2n'J61. 

WISCONSIN, 

Dolomite. Upper Sihirian. Light drab; celhilar. Near Raeiu(>, Raeiiu' County. 
Quarry of C. Fox & Soits. Tenth Census, 1880, 27155. 

Ui)per Silurian. Lightdrab; flno and compact. Waukesha, WaukesluiCoun I. \ . 

Quarry of Hadfield & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 270GG. 

Ui)per Silurian. Light colored; fine and compact. Waukesha, Waukcsli.i 

County. Quarry of Hadfield & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 270li7. 

Upper Silurian. Light colored ; very tine and compact ; two specimens. Mil- 

waukee, Milwaukee County. Story Brothers quarry. Tenth Censuw, ISSO. 
27083. 

Upper Silurian. Coarse and fine; light drab; two S2)eeim(iiis. Milwaukee, 

Milwaukee County. Milwaukee Stone Company. Tenth Census, 18.-<i). 
27112. 

Lower Silurian. Fiue; porous; very light buff. Near La Crosse, La ('rosse 

County. J. Neilson's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2C4G3. 

Lower Silurian. Fine; porous; very light buff. Near La Crosse, La Crosse 

County. M. Neilsou's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G4G4. 

Upper Silurian. Light dral); very fine and compact. Near Fond du Lac, 

Fond du Lac County. C. Geiger's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25SG4. 

Uiiper Silurian; drab; cellular, Waupun, Fond du Lac County. Waui>un 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27176. 

Upper Silurian; light colored ; very fine and porous. Taycheedah Township, 

Fond du Lac County. Quarry of Berry & Bannister. Tenth Census, 1880. 
258.83. 

Upper Silurian ; light drab; very fine and compact; will take a good polish; 

2 specimens. Byron, Fond du Lac County. S. Sylvester's quarry. Tenth 
Census, 188i). 25881. 

Upper Silurian ; light colored and drab ; very fine and compact; 2 specimens, 

Byron, Fond du Lac County. Quarry of S. Sylvester, jr. Tenth Census, 
1880, 25882. 

Upper Silurian ; very light drab ; fine and compact. Near Eden Station, Fond 

du Lac County. Marblehead Lime Company, Tenth Census, 1880, 25884. 

Upper Silurian; light drab; very fine and compact. Takes a good ])olish. 

Near Eden, Fond du Lac County. Quarry of Nast Bros. & Co. Tenth 
Census, 1880, 25885, 

Upper Silurian; very tine and compact; light colored. Eden, Fond du Lac 

County. Cardiff (piarry. J. S. F. Batchen, 1883. 27517. 

Upper Silurian ; drab ; very fine and compact. Near Sheboygan, Sheboygan 

County. Quarry of II. E. Roth. Tenth Census, 1880, 2GU40, 

Upper Silurian; drab; very fine and compact. Sheboygan Falls, Sheboygan 

County. Tenth Census, 1880. 26941. 

Upper Silurian; drab; very line and compact. Near Manitosvoc, Manitowoc 

County. Quarry of Lewis Miller it (Jt). Tenth Census, 1830. 2G933, . 



608 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Dolomite. Lower Silurian ; coarse; dark drab. Near OslikosL, Wiunebago County. 
F. Lasl's quarry. Teutli Ceusus, 1880. 2:>88G. 

Lower Silurian. Coarse; dark drab. N'ear Osbkosli, Winnebago County. 

Quarry of Scbueider & Frank. Tenth Census, 1880. 25887. 

Low6r Silurian ; dark drab. Near Meuaslia, Wiunebago County. K. Scott's 

quarry. Tentb Census, 1 -jHO. 25942. 

Lower Silurian ; dark drab. NecnaU, Wiunebago County. P. McGrath's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 188C. 25943. 

Lower Silurian ; light colored and dark mottled; 2 specimens. Kiver Falls, 

Pierce County. T. Walker's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27174. 

Lower Silurian; fine; very light bulF. Near Winona mine, Buffalo County. 

Quarry of H. J. Willis. Tenth Census, 1880. 26641. 

Lower Silurian ; coarse; bulf mottled. Near Winona mine, Buffalo County. 

Quarry of H.J.Willis. Tenth Census, 1880. 2G642. 

Lower Silurian ; drab. Near Kaukauna, Outagamie County. United States 

Government quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 25940. 

Lower Silurian; drab. Ledyard, Outagamie County. Kaukauna Water Power 

Comjiany. Tenth Census, 1880. 25941. 

Lower Silurian ; dark drab. Near Duck Creek Station, Brown County. Chicago 

and Northwestern Railway Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 25957. 

Light drab ; cellular. Haytou, Calumet County. Cardiff quarry. J. S. F. 

Batchen, 1883. 27509. 

Light drab; fine and porou.s. Prairie du Chicn, Crawford County. Marsden's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27054. 
Biotite gneiss. Fine; red. Village of Black River Falls, Jackson County. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 26702. 
Granite. Medium; reddi.sh brown. Montello, Marquette County. Montello Granite 

Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 26915. 

Wausau, Marathon County. J. Kolter's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26921. 

Hornblende granite. Medium ; dark brownish. Wausau, Marathon County. Big 

Bull Falls quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26922. 
Quartz Porphyry. Dark, nearly black. Manjuette, Green Lake County. Wampum 
Granite Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 27177. 

Dark, nearly black. Near Brandon, Fond du Lac County. J. Densmore's 

quarry J. S. F. Batchen, 1883. 28503. 
Sandstone. Lower Silurian ; light colored ; fine and compact. Near Ableraan, Sauk 
County. Tenth Census, 1880. 26703. 

• Lower Silurian; light eolored; fine and compact. Ableman, Sauk County. W. 

Lee's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26704. 

Lower Silurian ; light red and very light colored ; fine and friable. Two speci- 

mens. Mauston, Juneau County. H. V. Train's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 
20917. 

Lower Silurian ; fine; light colored. Near Mauston, Juneau County. C. W. 

Potter's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26939. 

Very light colored. Near Packwaukee, Marquette County. T. B. Hawes's 

quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26919. 

Nearly quartzite. Lower Silurian; light colored. Stevens' Point, Portage 

County. J. N. Avery's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 26920. 

-. Nearly quartzite. Lower Silurian; light colored; compact. Grand Rapids^ 

Wood County. . Quarry of J. Edwards & Co. Tenth Census, 1880. 26918, 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 609 

Sandstone. Lower Silurian ; fine; very light buff. Near Madison, Dane County. 
A. Kinnear's quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27077. 

Quartzite. Lower Silurian ; gray ; very hard and compact. Near Waterloo, Jeffer- 
son County. Wisconsin aud Chicago Quarrying Company. Tenth Census, 1880. 
27154. 

Lower Silurian; gray; very hard and compact. Near Waterloo, Jefferson 

County. Chicago and Wisconsin Quarrying Company. J. S. F. Batchen, 
1882. 27193. 

WYOMING. 

Granite. Medium; pink. Sherman, Albany County. Tenth Census, 1880. 26984. 

Fine ; light reddish. Sherman, Albany County. Tenth Census, 1880. 26986. 

Hornblende granite. Very coarse ; red. Dale Creek. G. Griffith's qiiarry. Tenth 

Census, 1880. 25558. 

Methods of Cutting and Polishing. 

The three independent series enumerated below are designed to show the kind of 
finish commonly applied to the different varieties of stone. The illustrations on 
Plate IV were drawn from these, and the descriptions given on page 319 explain the 
methods by which each finish is produced and for what kind of work each is particu- 
larly adapted. 

(1) The first of these is a series of nineteen blocks, white and colored marbles, in 
sizes about 12 inches square by 2 inches thick, from quarries at West Rutland, Vt. 
Gift of the Vermont Marble Company, 1882. They are finished as follows: Rock 
face, 26878 ; rough-pointed surface, 26877 and 27334 ; fine-pointed surface, 26876 and 
27340 ; tooth-chiseled surface, 26875 and 27332 ; bush-hammered surface, 26874 ; 
square-droved surface, 26873 and 27335; sanded surface, 27337; fine-sanded surface, 
26871 and 27333; pumiced surface, 26872; honed surface, 27336; acid-gloss surface 
(polished), 26870 and 27338 ; putty-gloss surface (polished), 26879 aud 27339. 

(2) The second is a series of eight blocks of Quincy (Mass. ) granite, in sizes as above, 
the gift of Henry Barker & Son, Quincy, Mass. Rock face, 27120 ; pointed surface, 
27118; ax-hammered surface, 27117; sawed surface, 27119; six-cut surface, 27116; 
eight-cut surface, 27115; ten-cut surface, 27114 ; polished surfjice, 27117. 

(3) The third is a series of eight blocks of light-colored Ohio sandstone, in sizes 
about 12 inches square by 3 inches thick. Gift of the McDermott & Berea Stone 
Company, of Cleveland, Ohio. Rough-pointed surface, 26993 ; pointed surface, 26995, 
26992, and 26990 ; fine-pointed surface, 26994 ; sanded surface, 26997 ; tooth-chiseled 
surface, 26991 ; droved surface, 26996. 

II. Foreign. 

(1) BRITISH PROVINCES OF NORTH AMERICA— CANADA. 

Limestone. Dark gray ; crystalline. Montreal, Province of Quebec. J. S. F. 
Batchen, 1883. 28643. 

Dark gray; semi-crystalline; fossiliferous. Near Montreal, Province of Que- 

bec. J. S. F. Batchen, 1883. 28644. 

Dark; semi-crystalline; fossiliferous. Kingston, Province of Outario. J. S. 

F. Batchen, 1883. 28645. 

Slate. Blue-black. Montreal, Province of Quebec. New Rockland Slate Company. 
Centennial, 1876. 25241. 

Sandstone. Lower Silurian; fine; reddish. Nepigon Bay, Lake Superior, Province 
of Ontario. Verte Island quarry. J. S. F. Batchen, 1883. 27362. 
H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 39 



610 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Sandstone. Lower Silurian; fine; reddish. 18-inch cube. North shore of Lake 
Superior, Province of Ontario. Verte Island Quarry. John S. F. Batchen, 1883. 
27526. 

Fine ; light colored. Georgetown, Province of Ontario. John S. F. Batchen, 

1883. 28646. 

Fine ; light brown. Near Brampton, Credit River Valley. Quarry of K. Chis- 

holm, M. P. John S. F. Batchen, 1884. 34993. 

Medium ; brown. Pyramidal block, about 9 inches high and 4 inches square at 

base. Harvey, Albert & Co., Province of New Brunswick. Mary's Point 
Quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27006. 

Medium ; brown. Pyramidal block, about 8 inches high and 4 inches square at 

base. Sackville, WestmorelandCounty, Province of New Brunswick. Wood 
Point Quarry. Tenth Census, 1880. 27007. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; fine ; gray. Dorchester, Province of New Brunswick. J. 

S. F. Batchen, 1883. 27524. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; gray. Dressed block, 30 inches high, cut in shape of 

Liberty Bell. Dorchester, Province of New Brunswick. Centennial, 1876. 
25070. 

Sub-Carboniferous; fine; gray. Large block, 22 inches wide, 3 feet 9 inches 

high, surmounted by Liberty Bell. Dorchester, Province of New Brunswick. 
Centennial, 1876. 25071. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; fine ; olive. Dorchester, Westmoreland County, Prov- 

ince of New Brunswick, Canada. Tenth Census, 1880. 26665. 

Sub-Carboniferous ; fine ; brown. Mary's Point, Province of New Brunswick. 

Tenth Census, 1880. 26669. 

Fine; light brown and gray. 6 by 4 by 1^ inches. Two specimens. Clifton, 

Province of New Brunswick. New Orleans Exposition, 1885. 37669. 
Biotite granite. Coarse gray. 13 by 12 by 10 inches. Purcell Cove quarries, north- 
west arm of Halifax County, Province of Nova Scotia. American Society Mining 
Engineers, 1886. 37852. 

Medium ; gray. 12-inch cu be. Shelburne, Province of Nova Scotia. Shel- 

burne Quarry Company. American Society Mining Engineers, 1886. 37851. 

Coarse ; pinkish gray. Broken column, 4^ by 4 inches and 4 J by 3 inches. Two 

specimens. St. George, Province of New Brunswick. 37666. 
Hornblende granite. Polished urn of dark red granite. St. George, Province of 

New Brunswick. 35729. 
: Coarse ; bright red. St. George, Province of New Brunswick. 37626. 

(2) BERMUDA. 

Coralline limestone. Nearly white ; coarsely cellular. 10 by 4 by 3J inches. Cen- 
tennial, 1876. 26009. 

(3) MEXICO. 

Gypsum. White ; dark veined. Slab, 6 inches square. Mexican Geographical 
Exploring Commission, 1885. 37701. 

White ; fibrous. Slab, 6 inches square. State of Sonora. Mexican Geographi- 

cal Exploring Commission, 1885. 37763. 
Marble. Compact ; yellowish. Vera Cruz. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 
mission, 1885. 37762. 
Limestone [marble]. Fine; white; crystalline. Slab, 6 inches square. Vera 
Cruz. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37759. 

• White, with rust spots ; crystalline. Slab, 6 inches square. State of Sonora. 

Mexican Geographical Exj)loring Commission, 1835. 37760. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 611 

Limestone [marble]. White; crystalKue. Slab, 6 inches square. State of Sonora. 
Mexicau Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37814. 

White; crystalline. Zumpango, State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical Ex- 

ploring Commission, 1885. 37715. 

Dnll pinkish; fine and compact. Slab, 6 inches square. Tecali, State of Pu- 

ebla. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37729. 

Cretaceous. Water-blue acd gray ; fossiliferous. Three specimens. Tezint- 

lan, State of Pueb!a» Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 
37998. 
Limestone. Drab ; fine and compact. State of Puebla. Mexican Geegraphical 

Exploring Commission, 1885. 38126. 
Travertine [Mexican onyx]. Paper-weight, composed of a red kidney-shaped body 
on a white base, 3 by 3 by 2 inches. State of Puebla. Purchased, 1885. 37593. 

Paper-weight. State of Puebla. Purchased, 1885. 37594, 

Nearly colorless; transparent. Irregular slab, 6 by 3 by -J^ inch. State of 

Tecali, Puebla. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37596. 

Paper-knife, 7i inches long. State of Puebla. Purchased, 1885. 37595. 

Nearly white; 7^ by 5^ by i inch. State of Puebla. Charles E. Hall & Co., 

1834. 36757. 

Light green and white. Three blocks, one 7^ by 7^ by 6 inches, and two 4 

by 4 by If inches ; also three thin slabs of the same, mounted on stands, to 
show veination. Tecali, State of Puebla. Mexicau Geographical Exploring 
Commission, 1885. 37610. 
Travertine. Light variegated ; 6i by llj by 2 inches. State of Aguas Calientes. 

Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37642. 
Tuff. Light colored; coarsely vesicular. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographi- 
cal Exploring Commission, 1885. 37709. 

Fine ; pinkish. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 

mission, 1385. 37710. 

Fine; light colored; soft and pliable. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geo- 

graphical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37694. 

Fine; salmon color. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring 

Commission, 1885. 37718. 

Pink. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 

37785. 

Fine; light pinkish. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring 

Commission, 1885. 37713. 

Coarsely porous; light pink. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical 

Exploring Commission, 1885. 37781. 

Coarse; light reddish. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Explor- 
ing Commission, 1885. 37782. 

Nearly white, streaked with yellow and red. Two specimens. State of Zacate- 

cas. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37743. 

Light colored; slightly pinkish. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical 

Exploring Commission, 1885. 37738. 

"Very light pinkish. Santa Cruz, State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical 

Exploring Commission, 1885. 37732, 

Compact. Five-inch cube. Two specimens. State of Zacatecas. J. S. F. 

Batchen, 1884. 36805. 

Compact ; reddish. Five-inch cube. State of Zacatecas. J. S. F. Batchen, 

1884. 36804. 



612 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Tuff. Gray. Carved block, 8 by 8 by 6 inches. State of Hidalgo. Mexican Geo- 
graphical Exploring Commission, 1685. 37806. 

Green. Carved block, 10^ by 8 by 4 inches. State «f Hidalgo. Mexican Geo- 

graphical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37704. 

Green. Carved block, 10^ by 8 by 4 inches. State of Hidalgo. Mexican Geo- 

graphical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37705. 

Ked. Carved block, 11 by 6 by 7 inches. State of Hidalgo. Mexican Geo- 

graphical Exploring Commission, 1835. 37706. 

Green. State of Hidalgo. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 

37724. 

Brown. Carved block, 11 by 8i by 5 inches. State of Hidalgo. Mexican Geo- 

logical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37788. 

Purplish gray. State of Oaxaca. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commis- 

sion, 1885. 37751. 

Compact; red, purplish, and white mottled. State of Oaxaca. Mexican Geo- 

graphical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37764. 

Light colored, with dark reddish spots. State of Oaxaca. Mexican Geographi- 

cal Exploring Commission, 1885. 37797. 

Medium ; light lavender. State of Oaxaca. Mexican Geographical Explor- 

ing Commission, 1885. 37819. 

Compact ; gray, with reddish spots. Six-inch cube. State of Morelos. Mexi- 

can Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37720. 

Compact; light reddish-brown. Six-inch cube. State of Morelos. Mexican 

Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37721. 

Very light gray ; vesicular. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 

1885. 37692. 

Gray ; coarsely vesicular. Vera Cruz. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 

mission, 1885. 37992. 

Coarse ; gray. State of Puebla. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commis- 

sion, 1885. 37793. 

Fine; very light brown. Five-inch cube, Lagos, State of Jalisco. J. S. F. 

Batchen, 1884. 36800. 

Light brownish ; cellular. Five-inch cube. Lagos, State of Jalisco. J. S. F. 

Batchen, 1884, 36799. 

Fine; light colored. Five-inch cube. State of Aguas Calientes. J. S. F. 

Batchen, 1884. 36802. 

Light red. La Paz, Lower California. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 

mission, 1885. 38002. 

Compact; reddish. Five-inch cube. State of Queretaro. J. S. F. Batchen, 

1884. 36793. 

Fine; very light brown. Five- inch cube. Leon, State of Guanajuato. J. S. 

F. Batchen, 1884. 36797. 

Light colored; porous. Five-inch cube. Leon, State of Guanajuato. J. S. F. 

i3atcheu,1884. 36798. 

Coarse; light greenish-gray. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 

1865. 37719. 

Eed ; friable. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37999. 

Tuff (?). Compact ; light reddish-brown. Six-inch cube. State of Morelos. Mex- 
ican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37722. 

Gray, streaked with ferruginous red. Six-inch cube. State of Morelos. Mex- 

ican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1S85. 37723. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 613 

Rhyolite tuff. Reddish ; coarse aud friable. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geo- 
graphical Exploring Commission, 18b5. 37756. 

Fine ; light gray. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 

mission, 1885. 37757. 

Fine ; light fawn colored. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Ex- 

ploring Commission, 1885. 37717. 

Fine ; nearly white. State of Hidalgo. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 

mission, 1885. 37810. 

Coarse; light colored ; soft and friable. State of Hidalgo. Mexican Geograph- 

ical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37740. 

Light colored ; soft and friable. State of Hidalgo. Mexican Geographical 

Exploring Commission, 1885. 37742. 

Fine; light pinkish. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring 

Commission, 1885. 37775. 

Fine; pinkish. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 

mission, 1885. 37776. 

Coarse, light pinkish. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring 

Commission, 18S5. 3778. 

Fine ; light lavender. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring 

Commission, 1885. 37779. 

Fine ; light greenish gray. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Ex- 

ploring Commission, 1885. 37784. 

Light pinkish. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 

mission, 1875. 37737. 

Very light gray. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 

mission, 1885. 37731. 

Fine ; light reddish. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring 

Commission, 1885. 37733. 

Compact ; light green. State of Oaxaca. Mexican Geographical Exploring 

Commission, 1885. 37747. 

Compact ; light green. State of Oaxaca. Mexican Geographical Exploring 

Commission, 1885, 37750. 

Coarse; light green. Zumpango, State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical Ex- 

ploring Commission, 1885. 37725. 

Fine; very light colored; soft and friable. State of Oaxaca. Mexican Geo- 

graphical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37749. 

Coarsely vesicular ; yellowish. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 

1885. 37714. 

Fine ; nearly white, streaked with red and yellow. Mexican Geographical 

Exploring Commission, 1885. 37736. 

Rhyolite (?) tuff. Coarse; red. Huelmetoca. Mexican Geographical Exploring 
Commission 1885. 37691. 

Rhyolite. Brownish. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 
mission, 1885. 37994. 

Compact; light reddish. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Explor- 

ing Commission, 1885. 37730. 

Biownish gray. Stato of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 

mission, 1885. 37758. 

Fine; pinkish. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 

miasion, 1885. 37744. 



614 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886, 

Rhyolite. Fine ; very light colored. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geograi)liical 
Exploring Commisaion, 1885. 37745. 

Fine ; light brown. State of Oaxaca. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 

mission, 1885. 37748, 

Light red. State of Oaxaca, Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 

1885. 37746, 

. Fine ; light lavender, i)ink and light colored ; friable. Three specimens. State 

of Aguas Calientes. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 
37766. 

Reddish; 5-inch cube. Leon, State of Guanajuato. J. S, F, Batchen, 1884. 

36796. 

Fine ; light colored. State of San Luis Potosi. Mexican Geographical Explor- 

ing Commission, 1885. 37739, 

Gray ; 5-inch cube. J. S. F. Batchen, 1884. 36790. 

Light colored. Santa Rosa. Mexican Geographical Exjjloring Commission, 

1885. 37689, 

Gray ; 5-inch cube, San Joaquin, J. S. F. Batchen, 1884. 36801. 

Rhyolite pitchstone (?). Bluish gray; glassy. State of Mexico. Mexican Geo- 
graphical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37768, 

Andesite. Reddish; fine and compact. State of Mexico. J. S. F. Batchen, 1884, 
36791. 

Dark gray ; finely vesicular. State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical Explor- 

ing Commission, 1885. 37800. 
Andesite (?), Dark gray; fine and compact. State of Hidalgo. Mexican Geo- 
graphical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37807. 

Brown. Tenacingo, State of Mexico, Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 

mission, 1885. 37772. 

Fine; dull red. State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 

mission, 1885. 37769. 
Hypersthene andesite. Reddish. Carved block 13 by 9 by 4 inches. State of 
Hidalgo. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37771. 

Light colored. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commis- 

sion, 1885. 37707. 

Medium; light brownish. State of Zacatecas. Mexican Geographical Explor- 

ing Commission, 1885. 37783. 

Finely vesicular ; reddish. State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical Exploring 

Commission, 1885. 37712. 

Black ; finely vesicular. Ixtapalapa, State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical 

Exploring Commission, 1885. 37789. 
Hornblende andesite. Compact ; gray. State of Oaxaca. Mexican Geographical 
Exploring Commission, 1885. 37752. 

Fine ; light red. State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commis- 

sion, 1885. 37770. 

Fine ; very light gray. State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical Exploring 

Commission, 1885. 37703. 

Fine ; reddish brown. Stat« of Mexico. Mexican Geographical Exploring 

Commission, 1885. 37735. 

Fine ; dull red. Tenamingo, State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical Explor- 

ing Commission, 1885. 37741. 

Coarse ; light gray. Ixtapalapa, State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical Ex- 

ploring Commission, 1885. 37711. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 615 

Hornblende andesite (?). Reddish gray. Sau Juaa de los Llauos, State of Puebla. 

Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 38001. 
Basalt. Dark gray ; vesicular, with large olivinea. State of Zacatecas. Mexican 

Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37786. 

Gray; vesicular. State of Oaxaca. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 

mission, 1885. 37754. 

Gray ; vesicular. State of Oaxaca. Mexican Geographical Exploring Com- 

mission, 1885. 37755. 

Light gray; coarsely and finely vesicular. State of Mexico. Mexican Geo- 

graphical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37701. 

Nearly black ; vesicular. State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical Exploring 

Commission, 1885. 37799. 

Nearly black ; finely and coarsely vesicular. Two specimens. State of Puebla. 

Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37699. 

Dark brown; coarsely vesicular. State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical 

Exploring Commission, 1885. 37802. 

Black ; coarsely vesicular. Tula, State of Mexico. J. S. F. Batchen, 1884. 

36792. 
BaBalt(?). Fine; reddish brown. State of Hidalgo. Mexican Geographical Explor- 
ing Commission, 1885. 37808. 

Reddish brown ; vesicular. State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical Explor- 

ing Commission, 1885. 37700. 

Dark brown; coarsely vesicular. State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical 

Exploring Commission, 1885. 37798. 

Dull red ; very vesicular. State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical Exploring 

Commission, 1885. 37773. 

Reddish brown ; vesicular. San Miguel, San Salvador (?). Mexican Geograph- 

ical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37687. 

Reddish brown ; finely vesieular. Toluca. Mexican Geographical Exploring 

Commission, 1885. 38128. 

Basalt (?) tuff. Black; friable. State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical Explor- 
ing Commission, 1885. 37792. 

Basaltic (?) tuff. Dull grayish ; finely vesicular. San Miguel. Mexican Geegraph- 

. ical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37690. 
Pumice. Fine ; light gray. State of Hidalgo. Mexican Geographical Exploring 
Commission, 1885. 378«4. 

Gray ; finely and coarsely vesicular. Two specimens. San Juan de los Llan#s, 

State of Puebla. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37698. 
Pumice tuff. Compact; very light gray ; soft and friable. State of Hidalgo. Mex- 
ican Geographical Exploring Commission, 1885. 37809. 

Dacite. Fine ; light reddish. State of Mexico. Mexican Geographical Exploring 

Commission, 1885. 3771G. 
Sandstone. Greenish. 5 by 4 by 3^ inches. State of Guanajuato. J. S. F. Batchen, 

1884, 36794. 

Greenish. 5 by 4 by 3^ inches. State of Guanajuato. J. S. F. Batchen, 1884. 

36795. 

Light brown. 5- inch cube. State of Aguas Calientos. J. S. F. Batchen, 1884. 

3G803. 

Fine; gray. State of Moreloa. Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, 

1865. 37997. 



616 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

(4) South America. 

Marble, liight green, dark veined; very compact. 6 by 6 by 1 incbes. Encra- 
zilbada, Province of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. American Institute of Mining 
Engineers, 1885. 37835. 

Marble [bituminous limestone]. Black with irregular white veins. 6 by 6 by 
1 inches. Province of Sao Paulo, Brazil. American Institute of Mining Engineers, 
1885. 37837. 

Marble fophlcalcite]. Light and dark green banded. 6 by 6 by 1 inches. Prov- 
ince of Sao Paulo, Brazil. American Institute of Mining Engineers, 1885. 37838. 

Marble [limestone]. Fine; green and dark mottled; crystalline. 6 by 6 by 1 
inch. Brazil. American Institute of Mining Engineers, 1885. 37839. 

Building stone. Dark gray and pinkish. Four specimens. 4 by 4 by 2^ inches. 
Argentine Confederation. Centennial, 1876. 25072. 

Biotite gneiss. Memorial stone from the Washington Monument. Brazil. D. 
O'Leary, 1885. 37629. 

(5) Great Britain. 

ENGLAND. 

Serpentine. Dark olive-green, with veins, streaks, and blotches of greenish white, 
chocolate brown, and blood red. Six specimens. 4i by 5 by If; 4i by 4| by 1|; 
7i by 4 by f ; 5 by 3^ by U ; 4f by 3J by H and 4^ by 2| by 1 inch. Lizard dis- 
trict, CornwaU. R. N. Worth, 1887. 39011. 

Slate. Purple. Slab 8 inches square. Two specimens. North Wales. Centen- 
nial, 1876. 26030. 

Model of a roof, showing the timber framing, with the method of fixing the 

slate. 24 inches long, 18 inches broad, and 12 inches high. North Wales. 
Centennial, 1876. 36999. 

Blue-black and purple. Two specimens. Carnarvon, North Wales. Centen- 

nial, 1876. 37000. 

SCOTLAND. 

Hornblende granite. Polished column of; coarse red. 8 by 3| inches. Aberdeen. 
A. Macdonald, Field &, Co. 27011. 

Polished column of ; coarse gray. 8 by 3^ inches. Aberdeen. A. Macdonald, 

Field & Co. 27010. 
Biotite granite. Polished column of; coarse red. 8 by 3^ inches. Aberdeen. A. 
Macdonald, Field &. Co. 27012. 

Polished column of; coarse gray, with large porphyritic crystals of pink feld- 

spar. 8 by 3| inches. Aberdeen.* A. Macdonald, Field «fc Co. 27013. 

Polished column of; dark gray. 8 by 3^ Inches. Aberdeen. A. Macdonald, 

Field & Co. 27009. 
Muscovite biotite granite. Polished column of; light gray. 8 by 3 J inches. 

Aberdeen. A Macdonald, Field & Co. 27008. 
Muscovite granite. Coarse; very light gray. 4 by 4 by li inches. Aberdeen. 

Thomas Wilson, 1887. 38825. 
Sandstone. Carboniferous; fine; light red. Ballochmyle. Tenth Census, 1880. 

26668. 

Permian ; fine ; dull red. Near Auan. Tenth Census, 1880. 27349. 

* This stone is probablj from Shap, in Cumberland, England. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL StONES. 617 

Sandstone. Permian ; fiue ; red. 18-inch cube. Near Auan. John S. F. Batchen, 
1883. 27350. 

Medium; light colored. Burg-Head, Moray. John S. F. Batchen, 1883. 

28588. 

Coarse; light colored. Elgin, Moray. John S. F. Batchen, 1883. 28569. 

Devonian ; fine ; light colored. Nairn, Nairn. John S. F. Batchen, 1883. 

28590. 

Devonian; medium; buff. Thurso. Caithness. John S. F. Batchen, 1883. 

28591. 

Fine; pinkish. Near Elgin, Moray. John S. F. Batchen, 1883. 28592. 

Fine; light colored. Near Brora, Sutherland, John S. F. Batchen, 1883. 

28594. 

Fine; light colored. Golspie, Sutherland. John S. F. Batchen, 1883. 28595. 

Fine ; light colored. Tortrose, Ross. Suddie'a quarry. John S. F. Batchen, 

1883. 28596. 

Fine; very light red. Beauty, Ross. Tarradale quarry. John S. F. 

Batchen, 1883. 28597. 

(6) Europe. 

BELGIUM. 

Marble. Dark gray, nearly black, with white veins. 4^ by 4^ by f inches. Conil- 
let, near Charleroi, Province of Hainaut. L. Charpy, 18^6. 38268. 

Gray and white; breccia. 4J- by 4^ by} inches. Conillet, near Charleroi, 

Province of Hainaut. L. Charpy, 1886. 38272. 

White ; pink mottled. 4J by 4i by f inches. Merleunout, near Philippeville, 

Province of Namur. L. Charpy, 1886. 38274. 
Marble [rouge royal]. Pink, with white veins. 4^ by 4i by f inches. Cerfon- 
taine, near Philippeville. L. Charpy, 1886. 38273. 

Saint Ann marble. Very dark gray, nearly black. 4i by 4i by f inches. Busnie, 
Province of Namur. L. Charpy, 1886. 38277. 

Marble [rouge imperial]. Dark red and gray mottled. Cerfontaine, near Phil- 
ippeville. L. Charpy, 1886. 38306. • 

Marble [rouge griotte fleuril. Dark red and white mottled. 4^ by 4i by } inches. 
Cerfontaine, near Philippeville. L. Charpy, 1886. 38307. 

Marble [rouge griotte]. Dull red, with gray spots. 4i by 4^ by f inches. Cer- 
fontaine, near Philippeville. L. Charpy, 1886. 38325. 



Lithographic limestone. Light colored. 7i by 7 by 3 inches. John S. F. Batchen, 

1884. 35706. 
Drab. 2 by 8^ by 6^ inches. Soleuhofen. A. G. Gedney, Washington, D. C. 

1884. 35888. 

Granite. Coarse; reddish brown. Piece of memorial stone from Washington 
Monument. Dennis O'Leary, 1885. 37627. 

FRANCE. 

Limestone. Very light buff. Caen. Ellin & Kitson, New York. 26695. , 

Marble [French griotte]. Dark red. Slab about 6 by 7 by } inches. Charles Lip- 
pincott &, Co., Philadelphia. 35927. 



618 RiEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Marble [Breche du Rousillon(?)]. Dull red, with coarsely anastomizing and 

very irregular light-drab aud yellow veins. 15 by 18 by 1 inches. Pyrdn^es 

Orientales (?). Centennial Commission, 1876. 37474. 
Marble [Sampans petit grain]. Dull pink; oolitic. 4 by 4 by | inches. Sampans, 

Jura. L. Charpy, 1886. 38269. 
Marble [griotte]. Dark red. 3J by 2J by i inches. Carcassone, Ande. L, Charpy, 

1886. 38270. 
Fossil marble [Sampans jaune dore]. Yellow ; coarsely oolitic. 4 by 4 by | 

inches. Sampans, Jura. L. Charpy, 1886. 38271. 
Marble [Sampans grain dore]. Dull red. 4 by 4 by | inches. Sampans, Jura. 

L. Charpy, 1886. 38275. 
Marble. Very light yellow. 4 by 4 by f inches. Belvoye, Jura. L. Charpy, 1886. 

38276. 
Marble [Sampans rouge antique]. Dull red. 4 by 4 by | inches. Sampans, 

Jura. L. Charpy, 1886. 38279. 
Jasper marble. Pink and yellow mottled. 4f by 3 by | inches. L'Ablage, Damp- 

aris, Jura. L. Charpy, 1886. 38280. 

GERMAKY. 

Marble [bougard]. Gray, with white and yellowish tints. Slab 12 by 2 by 1 

inches. Nassau. Gift of E. Fritsch, New York. 
Marble [formosa]. Blue-gray aud drab; some yellow spots. Slab 12 by 12 by 

1 inches. Nassau. Gift of E. Fritsch, New York. 



Serpentine [verd-antique marble]. Dark green ; white veined. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. 
Genoa. W. W. Story, 1883. 28633. 

Greenish, with white veins. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. W. W. Story, 1883. 28639. 

Green ; white veined ; first quality. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Genoa quarry. W. 

T. Rice, 1882. 26906. 
Marble. White ; dark spotted. Col. Edw. Clark, 1880. 25005. 

White, with dark veins. 3-inch cube. Serravezza. J. W. Tufts, Boston, 1881. 

26164. 

Red mixed. 3i by 5 by IJ inches. Levanto, 1881. 26449. 

Black and gold. Slab about 5| by 6J by 1 inches. Specia, 1881. 26452. 

Pure white; statuary; first quality. 12-inch cube. Poggio Silvestro quarry. 

WiUiam T. Rice, 1882. 26879. 

White, with dark spots; statuary; second quality. 12-inch cube. William 

T. Rice, 1882. 26880. 

White; ordinary; second quality. 12-inch cube. William T. Rice, 1882. 

26881. 

White; statuary; second quality. 12-inch cube. WiUiam T. Rice, 1882. 

26882. 

White ; ordinary ; first quality. 12-inch cube. William T. Rice, 1882. 26883. 

White; dark veined; second quality. SJ-inch cube. Gioj a quarry. William 

T. Rice, 1882. 26884. 

Light blue- gray ; Bardiglio; second quality. 12-inch cube. Gioj a quarry. 

William T. Rice, 1882. 26885. 

* Light blue ; dark veined ; Bardiglio ; first quality. lOJ-inch cube. William 

T. Rice, 1882. 26886. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 619 

Marble. Liglit blue; Bardiglioveiaod; sccouil quality. 11-iucli cube. William T. 
Rice, 1882. 26887. 

Pink ; Breccia* first quality ; 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Serravezza quarry. William 

T. Rice, 18S2. 2GS88. 

Light drab ; pink veined. Breccia ; first quality. 4 by 4 by 1^ inches. Grag- 

nana quarry. William T. Rice, 1882. 26889. 

Yellow J first quality. 4 by 4 by 1^ inches. Gragnana quarry. William T. 

Rice, 1882. 26890. 

Pinkish ; Breccia; first quality. 4 by 4 by 1 J inches. Gragnana quarry. Will- 

iam T. Rice, 1882. 26891 

White ; ordinary ; first quality. 12-inch cube. William T. Rice, 1882. 26892. 

White ; ordinary ; second quality. 12-inch cube. William T. Rice, 1882. 26893. 

White ; statuary ; second quality. 12-inch cube. William T. Rice, 1882. 26894. 

White ; veined ; first quality. 12- inch cube. Vara quarry. William T. 

Rice, 1882. 26892. 

Blue ; Bardiglio j first quality. 12-inch cube. William T. Rice, 1882. 26896. 

Black and gold. 12-inch cube. William T. Rice, 1882. 26897. 

Red mixed ; first quality. 11 by 11 by 6 inches. William T. Rice, 1882. 26898. 

White ; dark veined. Paunazo ; first quality. 8J by 8^ by 5 inches. Miseglia 

quarry. William T. Rice, 1882. 26899. 

White; dark veined; Paunazo; first quality. 6 by 6 by 4 J inches. Pesciua 

quarry. William T. Rice, 1882. 26900. 

Green; Breccia; first quality. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Garfagnana quarry. Will- 

iam T. Rice, 1882. 26905. 

Deep yellowish pink ; first quality. 4 by 4 by ^ inches. Verona quarry. Will- 

iam T. Rice, 1882. 26907. 

Brown; first quality. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Castel Poggia quarry. William T. 

Rice, 1883. 26908. 

White; dark veined; Paunazo; first quality. 6-inch cube. William T. Rice, 

1882. 26901. 

Yellow. 6-inch cube. William T. Rice, 1882. 26902. 

Marble ; black ; first quality. 12 -inch cube. Collonnata quarry. William T. 

Rice, 1882. 26904. 

Pure white. 4 by 4 by J inc hes. Carrara. Grestola quarry. W. W. Story, 

1883. 28603. 

White ; clouded. 4 by 4 by J inches. Carrara. W. W. Story, 1883. 28604. 

White ; ordinary ; second quality. 4 by 4 by f inches. Carrara. Fantiscritti 

quarry. W. W. Story, 1883. 2-i60.'3. 

White ; dark veined. 4 by 4 by J inches. Carrara. Cauale Bianco quarry. 

W. W. Story, 1883. 28606. 

Pure white ; statuary first quality. 4 by 4 by J inches. Carrara. MossaCava 

quarry. W. W. Story, 1883. 28607. 

Pure white. 4 by 4 by J inches. Carrara. Poggio Silvestro quarry. W. W. 

Story, 1883. 28608. 

White ; first quality. 4 by by 4 by J inches. Carrara. Canale Bianco quarry. 

W. W. Story, 1883. 28609. 

Deep blue-gray ; nearly black. Nero di Colona. 4 by 4 by J inches. Carrara. 

W. W. Story, 1883. 28610. 

Pure white. 4 by 4 by 3J inchea. Carrara. Carpevola quarry. W. W. Story* 

1883. 28611. 



6'20 REPORT on NATIONAL MUSEtfM, 1886. 

Marble. White ; slightly bluish ; ordinary. 4 by 4 by | inches. Carrara. Ravac- 
cione quarry. W. W. Story, 1883. 28612. 

Red mixed. 4 by 4 by 1 inch. Specia. Rosso di Levante quarry. W. W. 

Story, 1883. 28613. 

Black and gold. 4 by 4 by f inches. Specia. Porto Venere quarry. "W. W. 

Story, 1883. 28614. 

White. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Serravezza. W. W. Story, 1883. 28620. 

White and dark ; brecciated. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Serravezza. W. W. Story, 

1883. 28621. 

Pure white statuary ; first quality. 5| by 3| by i inches. Serravezza. W. W. 

Story, 1883. 28622. 

White; Bianco Falcovaia. 4 by 4 by J inches. Serravezza. W. W. Story, 

1883. 28623. 

White; Bianco Chiaro. 4 by 4 by i inches. [^Serravezza. W. W. Story, 

1883. 28624. 

White ; statuary. 4 by 4 by J inches. Serravezza. W. W. Story, 1883. 

28625. 

Blue veined (fiorito). 4 by 4 by } inches. Serravezza. W.W. Story, 1883. 

28626. 

Blue veined (fiorito) ; first quality. 4 by 4 by J inches. Serravezza. W. W. 

Story. 1883. 28627. 

Pink and white (mischio). 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Serravezza. W. W. Story, 

1883. 28628. 

Blue (Bardiglio). 4 by 4 by J inches. Serravezza. W. W. Story, 1883. 28629. 

Pinkish (Umbria). 5f by 3| by i inches. Umbria. W. W. Story, 1883. 28630. 

Light fawn color. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Umbria. W. W. Story, 1883. 28G32. 

Red. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Perugia. Rosso di Perugia quarry. W.W.Story, 

1883. 28634. 

Nearly black. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Lavagno. W. W. Story, 1883. 28640. 

White. 4 by 4 by I inches. Arni. L. Charpy, 1886. 38278. 

White, dark, spotted. 4 by 4 by | inches. Piastraccin, near Arni. L. Charpy, 

1886. 38281. 
Breccia marble. Red and white with dark spots ; a fine breccia. 5f by 3J by i 
inches. Monte Cavo. W. W. Story, 1883. 28631. 

Black, yellow veined. Portoro. First quality. 6 by 6 by 3 inches. Monte 

d' Arma quarries. William T. Rice, 1882. 26903. 
Bardiglio marble. Light blue-gray; mottled. 4 by 4 by J inches. Gioja. W.W. 
Story, 1883. 28601. 

Light blue-gray ; dark veined. 4 by 4 by finches. Gioja. W. W. Story, 1883. 

28602. 
Marble [fior di Persico]. Four by 4 by J inches. W. W. Story, 1883. 26615. 
Chocolate red and white ; mottled. 5^ by 3^ by i inches. W. W. Story, 1883. 

26616. 

Red, mixed. 4 by 4 by f inches. Levanto. W. W. Story, 1883. 28617. 

Marble [giallo di Siena]. Yellow. Four specimens. 2i by 4 by i inches. Cappa- 

docia. W. W. Story, 1883. 28618. 

Yellow and purplish ; brecciated. Two specimens. 2^ by 4 by i inches. Cappa- 

docia. W. W. Story, 1883. 28619. 
Travertine. Nearly white ; porous. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Tivoli. W. W. Story, 1883. 
28641. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 621 

Travertine. Yellowish. This stone ia popularly called "alabaster." 4 bj' 4 by 1 inches. 
Civita Veechia. W. W. Story, 1883. 28G37. 

Yellowish ; called " alabaster." 4 by 4 by 1 inches. W. W. Story, 1883. 28638. 

Limestone. One of the principal building stones throughout Tuscany and Northern 
Italy. Is used for fine work, door and vrindow trimmings, and facings of the base- 
ments of houses, especially in Florence. Does not withstand the climate for a 
longer period thaa twenty years. 12 by 8 by 8 inches. Florence, Italy. Hon. 
William T. Rice, United States consul at Leghorn, Italy, 1882. 27025. 

A coarse hard limestone used for door and window trimmings and facings for 

the basements of houses. It is one of the principal building stones in nse 
throughout Tuscany and Northern Italy ; 12 by 8 by 8 inches. Leghorn, 
Italy. Hon. William T. Rice, United States consul at Leghorn, Italy, 1882. 
27026. 

A coarse stone used generally for pav ing streets. Is also one of the principal 

building stones used throughout Tuscany and Ns^thern Italy. 12 by 8 by 8 
inches. Leghorn, Italy. Hon. William T. Kce, United States consul at Leg- 
horn, Italy, 1882. 27027. 

Breccia Di Nugola. One of the principal stones used for house trimmings and 

similar work throughout Tuscany and Northern Italy. Many of the old 
palaces are faced with it. The stone is soft when quarried, but hardens on 
exposure. 12 by 8 by 8 inches. Leghorn, Italy. Hon. William T. Rice, 
United States consul at Leghorn, Italy, 1882. 27028. 

Hard travertine. A hard, fine-grained limestone used for general building 

purposes. Was much used in old times in building palaces. Is one of the 
principal building stones used throughout Tuscany and Northern Italy. 12 
by 8 by 8 inches. Leghorn, Italy. Hon. William T. Rice, United States con- 
sul at Leghorn, Italy, 1882. 27029. 

Travertine of Tarrana. One of the principal stones used for house-trimmings 

and monuments throughout Tuscany, and in general use in the North of Italy. 
Is a soft stone, but is said to stand the weather well. 12 by 8 by 8 inches. 
Leghorn, Italy. Hon. William T. Rice, United States consul at Leghorn, 
Italy, 1882. 27030. 

An ordinary stone from quarries around Leghorn. Is used generally only 

whece it is to be covered with mortar. Rarely used for firm work. One of 
the principal building stones throughout Tuscany and Northern Italy. 12 by 
8 by 8 inches. Leghorn, Italy. Hon. William T. Rice, United States consul 
at Leghorn, Italy, 1882. 27031. 

Granite. Coarse; light gray. 6-inch cube. Milan. Montorfina quarry. William 
T. Rice, 1882. 26909. 

Fine ; dark gray. 6-inch cube. Milan. Biella quarry. William T. Rice, 1882. 

26910. 

Coarse ; light pink. 6-inch cube. Milan. Baveua Quarry. William T. Rice, 

1882. 26911. 

Quartzite. A natural slab. ■4feet8i inches long, 3 feet 4 inches wide, and 1 inch 

thick. Luscrna. Centennial, 1876. 2.'")207. 
Volcanic tuff. (Peperino.) 4 by 4 by 1 inches. Marino. W. W. Story, 1883. 28635. 
Sandstone. Micaceous; blue-gray. 4 by 4 by 1 inches. W. W. Story, 1883. 28636. 

PORTUGAL. 

Limestone. Light colored ; fine and compact. From quarries at Ontil, Cantanhede, 
District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 
27782. 



622 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Limestone. Very light drab ; fine and compact. From quarries at Ilhostro, Coim- 
bra, District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 
1876. 27786. 

Light colored ; fine and compact. Locality, etc., the same as last. 27779. 

Light pink tinted ; fine and compact. From quarries at Zambujal, Cantanhede, 

District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 
1876. 27781. 

Light drab ; fine and compact. From quarries at Pampilhora, Coimbra, Dis- 

trict of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 
27787. 

Buff; fine and compact ; with many small veins. Used for making quicklime. 

From quarries at Covoez, Cantanhede, District of Coimbra, Beira Province. 
Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27757. 

Light colored ; fine and compact. Used for making quicklime. Quarries at 

Ega, Condeixa, District of Coimbra, Beira Province, Portuguese Centennial 
Commission, 1876. 27745. 

Gray; fine and compact. Locality, etc., as above. 277^1. 

Light colored ; fine and compact. Locality, etc., same as above. 27793. 

Very light drab ; fine and compact. Quarries at Lourelra, Condeixa, District 

of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 
27748. 

Lithographic ; very light brown ; compact ; finely fossiliferous. From quarries 

at Pedreiras do Coifo, Condeixa, District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Por- 
tuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27755. 

— — Light colored ; very fiuo and compact. From quarries at Alto do Sangradas, 
Condeixa, District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Com- 
mission, 1876. 27746, 

— — Dark gray; fine and compact. From quarries at Cape Mondego, Beira Prov- 
ince, Centennial, 1876. 27803. 

•" — - Dark gray; fine and compact. Cape Mondego, Beira Province, Centennial, 
1876. 27802. 

..■ t. Very dark gray; fine and compact. From quarries at Dta. de Sto. Amero, Fi- 
gueira da Foz, District of Coimbra, Beira Province, Portuguese Centennial 
Commission, 1876. 27805. 

» Light yellowish brown ; very fine and comp*ct. From quarries at ForrestiUo, 

Figueira da Foz, District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portnguese Centen- 
nial Commission, 1876. 27814. 

. Light colored ; fine and compact. From quarries at Boria, Figueira da Foz, 

District of Coimbra, Beira Province, Portuguese Centennial Commission, 
1876. 27809. 

Light colored; fine andcompaot. From i[uarrie8 at Breuha, Figueira da Foz, 

District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 
1876. 27811, 

Drab and yellow ; fine and compact. Locality, etc., same as last. 27812. 

Light colored; finely fossiliferous. From quarries at Salmanha, Figueira da 

Foz, District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commis- 
sion, 1876. 27798. 

Light colored ; compact ; fossiliferous. Locality, etc., same as last. 27795. 

Drab ; fine and compact. From quarries at Arrovella, Figueira da Foz, District 

of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 
27751. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 623 

Limestone. Drab ; fine aud compact ; semi-crysta lline. Penella, Beira Province. 
27726. 

Gray; fine and compact. Locality, etc., same as above. 27728. 

Very light brown ; fine and compact. Locality, etc., same as above. 27739. 

Light colored ; fine and compact. Quarries at Verride, Monte Mor-Velho, Dis- 

trict of Coimbra, Boira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 
27747. 

Coarse ; light colored. From quarries at Penacora e Friumes, District of Co- 

imbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27753. 

Light yellowish ; compact ; oolitic. From quarries at Alrito, Poiares, District 

of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 
27721. 
Light colored ; fine and vesicular. Quarries at Ponte doEspinhal, Penella, Dis- 
trict of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 
27743. 

Lithographic; dull brownish ; compact. Bordallo, District of Coimbra, Beira 

Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27783. 

Compact ; light colored ; oolitic. From quarries at Lombas, Batalha, District 

of Leiria. American Institute of Mining Engineers, 1886. 37899. 

Coarse ; drab. From quarries at Corredara, Porto de Moz, District of Leiria. 

Estremadura Province. American Institute Mining Engineers, 1S86. 37900. 

Dark blue-gray, nearly black ; fine and compact. Locality, etc., same as 

above. 37901. 

Compact; light red. From quarries at Nazareth, Alcobaca, District of Leiria, 

Estremadura Province. American Institute of Mining Engineers, 1886. 
37902. 

Pinkish ; fine and compact ; crystalline. Locality, etc., same as above. 37903. 

Light colored ; compact ; finely fossiliferous. Americanlnstituteof Mining En- 

gineers, 1886. 37921. 
Limestone, argillaceous. Dendritic; light yellow; fine and compact. From 
quarries at Cuzelhas, District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centen- 
nial Commission, 1876. 27784. 

Fine; very light colored. From quarries at Angan, Cantanhede, District of 

Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27780. 

Drab ; fine and compact. Quarries at Ega, Condeixa, District of Coimbra, 

Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27758. 

Very light colored ; fine and compact. From quarries at Alhadas, Figueira da 

Foz, District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 
1876. 27808. 

Bluish drab ; very fine and compact. From quarries at Serra da Boa Viagem, 

Figueira da Foz, District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centen- 
nial Commission, 1876. 27804. 

Nearly white ; chalky. From quarries at Carvalhal, Figueira da Foz, District 

of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 
27810. 

Light drab and gray. QtWirries at Porto Barrao, Montemor Velho, District of 

Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27750. 

Very light colored; fine and compact. QuarriesatJanianes, Penella, District of 

Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27744. 

Light drab; fine and compact. From quarries at Janianes, Penella, District of 

Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27816. 



624 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Limestone Breccia. Brown ; from quarries at Moute Arrvia, Coimbra, District of 
Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27785. 

Limestone [marble]. Light yellow ; fine and compact. From quarries at Ando- 
rinba, Cautanbede, District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial 
Commission, 1876. 27778. 

Light pinkish drab ; fine and compact. Quarries at Condeixa a Velha, Con- 

deixa, District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commis- 
sion, 1876. 27788. 

Red and yellow; mottled; fine and oompact. Two specimens. Locality, etc., 

same as last. 27789. 

Pink and yellow mottled, with dark spots; fine and compact. Locality, etc., 

same as last. 27790. 

Very light colored ; fine and compact. From quarries at Amaxoeira, Condeixa, 

District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 
1876. 27792. 

Compact; pinkish. Quarries at Arneiro de fora, Figueira da Foz, District 

of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27742. 

Light lavender ; Tery fine and compact. From quarries at Pincho, Figueira da 

Foz, District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commis- 
sion, 1876. 27806. 

White, dark spotted; very fine and compact. From quarries at Zameirao, Figu- 

eira da Foz, District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial 
Commission, 1876. 27754. 

Light colored; compact; fossil iferous. Locality, etc. , same as last. 27799. 

'Pink; fine and compact. Locality, etc., same as last. 27796. 

Light pink; fine and compact. Locality, etc., same as last. 27797. 

Very light colored, pink tinted ; fine and cpmpact. Locality, etc., same as last. 

27807. 

Light pink ; fine and compact. From quarries at Farrestello, Figueira da Foz, 

District of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 
1876. 27813. 

Gray ; crystalline. 8 by 8 by 1 inches. Quarries at A Iveite, Poiares, District of 

Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27720. 

• Yellow, with light purple stripes ; very fine and compact. From quarries de- 
nominated Ferrarias, Fahricas,Ledadara, and Lobral, situated in the " Fre- 
gnesias" of St. Miguel and Santa Eufemia, Penella, District of Coimbra, 
Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27725. 

Light drab ; very fine and compact. Locality, etc., same as above. 27815. 

Light brown with streaks of dull red ; fine and compact. Locality, etc., same as 

above. 27727. 

Dull pinkish with fine veins of white calcite. Very fine and compact. Local- 

ity, etc., same as above. 27729. 

Dull red ; very fine and compact. Locality, etc. , same as above. 27730. 

Drab, pink tinted ; very fine and compact. Locality, etc., same as above. 27731. 

"White crystalline, spotted and blotched with light red ; very fine and compact. 

Locality, etc., same as above. 27732. 

Yellow-tinged with pink, with vein of white calcite ; very fine and compact. 

Locality, etc., same as above. 27734. 

Very light pinkish ; fine and compact, with many minute veins. Locality, etc., 

same as above. 27735. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 625 

Limestone [marble]. Dull red with light streaks; very fme and compact. From 
quarries denominated Ferrarias, Fabricas, Ledadura, and Lobral, sitnated in the 
"Fregnesiaa" of St. Miguel and Santa Eufemia, Penella, District of Coimbra, 
Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 2773G. 

Light pink with drab veins; very fine and compact. Locality, etc., same as 

above. 27737. 

Very light brown with dull red stripes; very fine and compact. Locality, etc. 

same as above. 27738. 

Very light pink ; fine and compact. Locality, etc., same as above. 27740. 

Drab with pink and yellow streaks ; fine and compact. Locality, etc., same 

as above. 27741. 

Dull reddish brown; very fine and compact. Locality, etc., same as above. 

27733. 

Light and dark gray mottled ; crystalline. 8 by 8 by 1 inches. From the quarries 

of the Estremoz Marble Quarrying Company, Estremoz, Alemtejo Province. 
American Institute of Mining Engineers, 1886. 37914. 

White; crystalline. 8 by 8 by 1 inches. Locality, etc., same as above. 37915. 

White ; crystalline. 8 by 8 by 1 inches. Locality, etc., as above. 37916. 

Same as above. 37917. 

Yellowish white, with red blotches; crystalline. 8 by 8 by 1^ inches. Locality, 

etc., same as above. 37918. 

White; crystalline. 10^ by 10^ by finches. Locality, etc., same as abov^e. 37911. 

White with yellow veins ; crystalline. 8 by 8 by 1 inches. From quarries at Es- 

tremoz, Alemtejo Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27723. 
■ Yellow. 10^ by 10^ by J inches. Locality, etc., same as above. 27671. 

Very light drab. 10^ by 10^ by 1 inches. From quarries at Porto Salvo, Alemtejo 

Province. American Institute of Mining Eugiueers, 1386. 37913. 

White; crystalline. 8 by 8 by 1 inches. From quarries and Viauua do Alemtejo. 

American Institute of Mining Engineers, 1886. 37919. 

Whit«; crystalline. 8 by 8 by 1 inches. From quarries at Borba, Alemtejo Prov- 

ince. American Institute of Mining Engineers, 1886. 37920. 

Dark blue gray and white mottled; crystalline. 6-iuch cube. Locality as 

above. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27724. 

Pink mottled. 10| by 10^ by f inches. Quarries at Pero Pinheiro Estremadura 

Province. Two specimens. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27666. 

Light red ;. mottled. 10^ by 10^ by finches. Locality, etc., same as above. 

276G7. 

Very light drab. 10^ by lOJ by f inches. Locality, etc., same as above. 27668. 

Water blue; coarsely crystalline. lOJ by 10^ by f inches. Locality, etc., same 

as above. 27669. 

Light and dark red. Two specimens. 10^ by 10^ by | inches. Locality, etc., 

same as above. 27673. 

Light colored; fossiliferous. Locality, etc., same as above. American Insti- 

tute of Mining Engineers, 1886. 37912. 

Dull pink ; very fine and compact. From the quarries of Joaquim Piros, Serra 

da Lagar, Anciao, District of Leira, Estremadura Province. American In- 
stitute of Mining Engineers, 1886. .37895. 

Dull red ; very fine and compact. From the quarries of Manoel Zuarte, Lagar- 

teira, Anciao, District of Lciria, Estremadura Province. American lustitilte 
of Mining Engineers, 188(). 37894. 

H. Mis, 170, pt. 2 40 



626 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Limestone [marble]. Red mottled; fossiliferoua. lOJ by lOJ by 1 inches. Locality, 
etc., same as above. 37909. 

Dark blue gray ; fine and compact. 5 by 5 by 1 inches. Quarries at Ciutra, Dis- 

trict of Lisbon, Estremaduia Province. Ceuteunial, 1876. 27677. 

Yellowish gray ; crystalline. 5 by 5 by 1 inches. Quarries at Cintra, District of 

Lisbon, Estremadura Province. Centennial 1876. 27674. 

Gray; fine and compact. 5 by 5 by 1 inches. Locality, etc., same as above. 

27675. 

Coarse; gray; crystaline. 5 by 5 by 1 inches. Locality, etc., same as above. 

27676. 

Light and dark gray, mottled ; fine and compact. 4^ by 5^ by 1 inches. Local- 

ity, etc., same as above. 27678. 

Coarsely crystalline; white. 4^ by 5^ by 1 inches. Locality, etc., same as 

above. 27679. 

Black; very fine and compact. lOi by 10^ by 1 inches. Locality, etc., same as 

above. 27672. 

Yellow; fine and compact. 10 by 10 by 1 inches. From quarries at Cintra, 

District of Lisbon. American Institute of Mining Engineers, 1886. 37910. 

Lisbon, Portugal. American Institute Mining Engineers, 1886. 37841. 

White ; crystalline. 5 by 5 by 1 inches. From the Peuha Longa quarries. 

Cruz dos Quarto Carminhos, Cintra, District of Lisbon, Estremadura Prov- 
ince. American Institute of Mining Engineers, 1886. 37888. 

Dark gray; fine and compact. Locality, etc., same as above. 37889. 

Dark blue-gray and white ; crystalline. 4 by 6 by 1 inches. Las Gongala. Lo- 

cality, etc., otherwise as above. 37890. 

Yellowish; coarsely fossiliferous. 10^ by 10^ by 3J inches. From quarries at To- 

jal, Estremadura Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27670. 

White ; coarsely crystalline. 8 by 8 by 1 inches. Portuguese Centennial Com- 
mission, 1876. 27722. 

Shell limestone. Coarse, cellular. Locality, etc., same as above. 27794. 

Fine ; light colored. Locality, etc., same as above. 27800. 

Fine ; light colored. Locality, etc., same as above. 27801. 

Bituminous limestone. Very light brown. Locality, etc., same as above. 27759. 
Calcarious conglomerate. Coarse; reddish. Locality, etc., same as above. 27760. 
Calcarlous conglomerate [marble]. Coarse; reddish; variegated. 8 by 6 by 1 

inches. From quarries in the Arrabida Mountains, District of Lisbon, Estre- 
madura Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27717. 

Marble. Coarse; red; variegated. 9^ by 7| by J inches. Locality, etc., same 

as above. 27718. 

Marble. Coarse; pink and yellow variegated. 8 by 6 by 1 inches. Locality, 

etc., same as above. 27719. 

Dolomite. Compact; finely cellular; dark drab. Used for making quicklime. 
From quarries near San Miguel in the mountain of Poiares, District of Coim- 
bra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27752. 

Sandstone. Fine; red. Penella, Beira Province. 27761. 

Ferruginous ; fine ; red. Locality, etc., same as above. 27767. 

Fine; gray. From quarries at San Miguel, District of Leiria, Estremadura 

Province. American Institute of Mining Engineers, 1836. 37898. 

Fine; very light brown. From quarries at Pombal, District of Leiria, Estre- 

madura Province. American Institute of Mining Engineers, 1886. 37896. 
Calcareous sandstone. Coarse; light colored. Penella, Beira Province. 27817, 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 627 

Calcareous sandstone. Gray ; compact. From quarries at Lapa, District of Leiria, 
Estremadiira Province. American Institute of Mining Engineers, 188G. 37897. 

Mica granite. Fine ; redilish. From quarries at Gramacos, Oliveira do Hospital, Dis- 
trict of Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27818. 

Coarse ; gray. From quarries at Santa Ovaia, Oliveira do Hospital, District of 

Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27819. 

Gray; coarse; porphyritic. From quarries at Pedreirada S6, Taboa, District of 

Coimbra, Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27820. 

Fine ; light gray. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27775. 

Slate, Coarse blue-gray. From quarries at Espariz, Taboa, District of Coimbra, 

Beira Province. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27756. 
Granite. Coarse; gray. 5 by 5 by 1 inches. Cintra, Estremadura Province. Amer- 
ican Institute of Mining Engineers, 1886. 37893. 
Marble. Pink ; fine and compact. Lisbon. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 

1876. 26450. 
Dolomite r marble]. White; crystalline. 5 by 5 by 1 inches. Terra do Tanque. Es- 
tremadura Province. 37891. 

White; crystalline. 4 by 5 by f inches. Locality, etc., same as last. 37892. 

Limestone (stalagmatic). Brown mottled; irregular oval mass, about 17 by 8 by 

4 inches. Rock of Gibraltar. Centennial Commission, 1876. 25027. 
Stalagmite [marble]. Brown. Small slab, 3 by 4 inches. Rock of Gibraltar. A. 

R. Crittenden, 1886. 38444. 
Hornblende andesite (?). Fine dark gray, nearly black, with small white spots. 

This stone is used in hewn and rubble work in localities where there is no other. 

It is very easy to cut in blocks of any size. 5-inch cube. From quarries near 

Ponta Delgada, on the Island of Sho Miguel, Azores. Portuguese Centennial 

Commission, 1876. 37904. 
Basalt. Coarsely vesicular; dark gray, almost black in color. Used for hewn stone 

of inferior quality to remain in sight inbuildingsofasuperior construction. Also 

used aa an imitation of hewn stone when covered with cement, which adheres 

very well to the asperities of the stone, and as hewn and rubble stones in inferior 

constructions. Locality, etc., as above. 37905. 

Dark gray; fine and compact; somewhat vesicular. This stone is very hard 

and difficult to hew, and on this account is used only for rubble work and as 
loose stone in breakwaters. Locality, etc., as above. 37906. 

Dark gray, nearly black; very vesicular. Used as a second-rate stone in the 

commonest kind of hewn work. Locality, etc., as above. 37907. 

Fine and compact; dark gray. A first-class stone,used in hewn work in build- 

ings of superior construction. Locality, etc., as above. 37908. 

Red; ferruginous; coarsely vesicular. Santa Cruz de Tenerifl'e, Canary Islands. 

Portuguese Centennial Commission, 1876. 27712. 
Pozzuolana. Volcanic clay; employed with great success to give, when mixed with 
liuio not hydraulic or slightly hydraulic, the properties which the latter requires 
for composing hydraulic mortars. Very abundant in St. Michaels,and explored 
in great scale in the suburbs of Ponta Delgada for the buildings of the locality 
and for exportation to tho eontinent of Portugal. It is generally employed in 
all the public works of the country. In constructions out of water, or in hy- 
draulic works by tides or in fresh water, the masonry is made with mortar com- 
posed of one part oflime and three parts of pozzuolana, using lime not hydraulic 
for tho iirst kind of works and slightly hydraulic for the second. For works 
constantly exposed to the sea slightly hydraulic lime, pozzuolana, and coarse 
sand are mixed together in equal parts. (Portuguese Centennial Catalogue, 
p. 95). Locality, etc., as above. 35527, 



628 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Artificial stone, formed by mixing pozzuolana with lime as described above. Local- 
ity, etc., same as last. 35527. 

Volcanic tuff. Dark gray. Grand Canary Islands. Portuguese Centennial Con: 
mission, 1876. 27710. 

Coarse ; dull red. Grand Canary Islands. Portuguese Centennial Commission, 

1876. 27713. 

SPAIN. 

Calcareous breccia [marble]. Coarse ; drab and light brown. From quarries in 
Saragossa Province. Spanish Centennial Commission, 1876. 27694. 

A coarse breccia, made up of fragments of nearly black limestone embedded 

in a brown ground mass. From quarries at Chodes, Saragossa Province. 
Spanish Centennial Commission, 1876. 27692. 

Like the last, but more compact. Locality, etc., the same. 27693. 

Coarse ; dull, with white veins. Locality, etc., same as above. 27698. 

Made up of fragments of nearly black limestone embeded in a white crystalline 

ground mass. From quarries at Kicla, Saragossa Province. Spanish Cen- 
tennial Commission, 1876. 27696. 

Coarse ; composed of fragments of dark and ferruginous limestone cemented by 

white crystalline carbonate of lime. From quarries at Morata, Saragossa 
Province. Spanish Centennial Commission, 1876. 27714. 

Dull red and white ; cellular. From quarries at Pueblade Alborton, Saragossa 

Province. Spanish Centennial Commission, 1876. 27688. 
Limestone [marble]. Very light drab, with fine pink veins ; fine and compact. 
From quarries in Saragossa Province. Spanish Centennial Commission, 1876. 
27695. 

Coarse ; yellowish. Locality, etc., same as above. 27697. 

Very dark drab, with white and red veins; fine and compact. Locality, etc., 

same as above. 27690. 

Dull red ; fine and compact. From quarries at Eicla, Saragossa Province. 

Spanish Centennial Commi ssion, 1876. 27684. 

Gray ; crystalline. 6 by 6 by 1 inches. Murcia, Murcia Province. Spanish 

Centennial Commission, 1876. 27774. 

Red and yellow mottled; fine and compact. 6by6byl inches. Cehegin, Murcia 

Province. Spanish Centennial Commission, 1876. 27706. 

Dark blue-gray and white mottled; crystalline. 5 by 5 by 1 inches. Alma. 

zarron, Murcia Province. Spanish Centennial Commission, 1876. 27707. 

Dark blue-gray ; crystalline. Panticosa, Huesca Province. Spanish Centen- 

nial Commission, 1876. 27683. 

Nearly black with whitish veins ; very fine and compact. 5 by 5 by 1 inches. 

Callosa de Ensarria, Alicante Province. Spanish Centennial Commission, 
1876. 27711. 

Dark yellow; compact. 8 by 8 by li inches. Nueva Esparta. 36998. 

Limestone. Bluish drab ; fine and compact. From quarries in Saragossa Province. 
Spanish Centennial Commission. 27700. 

Drab. Locality, etc., same as above. 27821. 

Deep blue-black ; very fine and compact. From quarries at Ricla, Saragossa 

Province. Spanish Centennial Commission, 1876. 27763. 

Dark gray ; compact. Pnebla de Alborton, Saragossa Province. Spanish Cen- 
tennial Commission, 1876. 27689. 

. Pinkish ; fine and compact. Locality, etc., same as above. 27765, 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 629 

Limestone. Nearlywhite; coarse; cellular. From quarries at Calatayud, Saragossa 
Proviuce. Spanish Centennial Commissson, 1876. 27G8G. 

Dark gray; compact. Locality, etc., same as above. 27G91. 

White; semi-crystalline. From quarries at Alhama, Saragossa Province. 

Spanish Centennial Commission, 1876. 27764. 

Compact ; dark gray. 6-inch cube. Murcia, Murcia Province. Spanish Cen- 

tennial Commission, 1876. 27773. 

Chalk. From quarries at Calatayud, Saragossa Province. Spanish Centen- 

nial Commission, 1876. 27685. 
Gypsum. Compact; gray. From quarries at Ricla, Saragossa Province. Sjiauish 
Centennial Commission, 1876. 27768. 

Compact ; dark gray. Locality, etc., same as above. 27687. 

Alabaster; pure white; translucent. Locality, etc., same as above. 27699. 

Alabaster; white. From quarries at Saragossa, Saragossa Proviuce. Span- 

ish Centennial Commission, 1876. 27701. 

. Alabaster; pure white; transhu-eut. 7^ by 7| by 1 inches. From quarries in 

the proviuce of Giiadahijara. American Institute Mining Engineers, 1886. 
34535. 

Compact; blue-gray and yellowish gray, mottled. From Murcia, Murcia Pro- 

vince. Spanish Centennial Commission, 1886. 27705. 

Shell limestone. Coarse ; light buff". Murcia, Murcia Province. Spanish Centen- 
nial Commission, 1876. 27703. 

Coarse and friable ; light colored. Locality, etc., same »s above. 27772. 

Fine; light colored ; cellular. Murcia, Murcia Province. Centennial, 1876. 

27771. 
Calcareous sandstone. Very light brown ; fine ; cellular. Locality, etc., as above. 
27716. 

Light colored. Locality, etc., same as above. 27769. 

Fine; light yellow. 6-inch cube. Murcia, Murcia Province. Spanish Cen- 

tennial Commission, 1876. 27776. 

Light pinkish; cellular. 5-inch cube. Santa Maria, Oveido Province. Span- 

ish Centennial Commission, 1876. 27715. 
Dolomite. Coarse; drab. Spanish Centennial Commission, 1876. 27777. 
Calcareous tufa. Yellowish ; compact but cellular. 6-inch cube. Locality, etc., 
as above. 27704. 

Sandstone. Green; colored by copper oxide. San Romando Morrano, lluesca Pro- 
vince. Spanish Centennial Commission, 1676. 27702. 

Slate. Blue-black. 25083. 

(7) Africa. 

ALGERIA. 

Marble. "Jauno antique dor6." Yellow and yellow pink-spotted. Two specimens. 
Slab 12 by 12 by J inclies. Western Algeria, E. Fritsch, New York, 1886. 
38440. 

"Paonazzo rosso." Dull red. Slab 12 by 12 by f inches. Western Algeria. E. 

Fritsch, New York, 1886. 38441. 

'' Jaune chiaro ondat6." Yellowish; red veined. Slab 12 by 12 by J inches. 

Western Algeria. E. Fritsch, New York., 1886. 38442. , 

"Jauneros^." Yellowish; red veined. Slab 12 by 12 by finches. WcstcrnAl- 

geria. E. Fritsch, Now York, 1886. 38443. 

"Rose Clare." Light-rose tinted. Slab 12 by 12 by 1 inches. Western Alge- 

ria. E. Fritsch, New York, 1887. 38839. 



630 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886 

Marble. " Jaspe rouge." A jasper red breccia, witliliglat spots and streaks. Slab 12 
by 12 by 1 inches. Western Algeria. Gift of E. Fritsch, New York. 38841. 

"Breclie 8anguin6." Blood- red, light and dark. Western Algeria. Gift of 

E. Fritsch, New York. 38840. 

EGYPT. 

Onyx marble. From quarries at Blad Recarn, near ravine of Oned-Abdallah, 
Egypt (?). Polished block, Si by 7 by 7 inches. 25343. 

This stone, the so-called Egyptian onyx, is composed principally of carbon- 
ate of lime, and occurs in large beds among the Tertiary limestones of Blad 
Recam (marble country), near the ravine of Oned-Abdallah. The old quar- 
ries which supplied the inhabitants of Rome and Carthage with the fine 
translucent marble used in the interior decorations of their houses and mon- 
uments were here situated. These quarries were for over 1,000 years en- 
tirely lost sight of, and it was not until the year 1849 that they were re- 
discovered by a French gentleman, M. Delmonte. In ancient times the stone 
was cut into small vases for holding precious ointments. It is now imported 
in considerable quantities into Paris, where it is used in the manufacture 
of time-pieces, small vases, candlesticks, aud similar objects. (On Build- 
ing and Ornamental Stones, by E. Hull, p. 149.) 
Onyx marble. From quarries at Blad Recam, near ravine of Oned-Abdallah, 
Egypt (?). Polished block, 18 by 8f by 7 inches. 

This stone, pojiularly called Oriental alabaster, is another variety of mar- 
ble derived from quarries in Egypt, aud employed in works of art, except 
statuary, both in ancient and mediaeval times. Its stalagraitic origin is at 
once apparent upon inspection. The color is that of amber, or rich yellow- 
ish brown, of various shades arranged in folds or wavy i)arallel bands; 
sometimes it is beautifully iridescent. The mammillated structure so char- 
acteristic of deposits due to filtration or jiercolation is also not infrequent. 
This stone was largely employed by the ancient inhabitants of Egypt in 
the formation of canopi (or jars surmounted by sculptured images of the 
dog-headed god), in which were deposited the ashes of the dead. Besides 
these smaller objects, large cinerary urns were formed of this material. 
This stone is popularly called alabaster, but is entirely different from true 
alabaster in comjjosition. (On Building and Ornamental Stones, by E. 
Hull, p. 150. See text, p. 475.) 
Travertine. " Orientalal alabaster." Yellowish and nearly colorless. Two speci- 
mens. 4 by 4 by i and 4 by 2 by J inches. Bowker, Torrey & Co., Boston, 1884. 
36774. 
Porphyrite. Egyptian porphyry or " roseo antico." Very dark red, with pink por- 
phyritic feldspars. 2^ by 2 by J inches. From quarries near the first cataract of 
the Nile. 4863. 
Nummulitlc limestone. A portion of one of the steps formerly leading to the obe- 
lisk at Alexandria, Egypt, now in Central Park, New York. Alexandria. Com- 
mander H. H. Gorringe, U. S. Navy, 1881, 26816. 
Granite. A block of red hornblende biotite granite found in the d6bris at the foot of 
the Egyptian obelisk at Alexandria by Commander Gorriuge during the excava- 
tions preparatory to its removal to New York. That the fragment was originally 
a portion of one of the obelisks now in New York and London is undoubted, 
though of which can not with certainty be told. The specimen still shows the 
original carving. Syene. Commander H. H, Gorringe, U. S. Navy, 1881. 26815. 
A'block of blue-gray hornblende mica granite, being a portion of a large col- 
umn found in the ddbris at Alexandria during the excavations preparatory to 
the removal of the obelisk to New York. The locality from whence the rock 
was originally taken is not known, Alexandria. Commander H. U. Gor- 
ringe, 1881. 26817. 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 631 

(8) Asia. 

TURKEY. 

Marble. Pink. Seitan, Isle of Samoa. 9 by 11 by 1 inches. Turkish Centennial 
Commission, 1876. 27086. 

CHINA. 

Granite. Light gray. Circular disk, about 5 inches in diameter and 1 inch thick. 

Hong-Kong. John Long, 1883. 28576. 
Rhyolite. Compact; light brown. Suburbs of Ningpo. 8 bj 4 by 2 inches. Chinese. 

Centennial Commission, 1876. 38580. 
TuS. Compact; light brown. Two specimens, 8 by 4 by 2 inches. Locality, etc., 

same as above. 38581. 

Compact; light greenish. Two specimens, 8 by 4 by 2 inches. Locality, etc., 

same as above. 38582. 

COREA. 

Mottled yellow stone. Box made of. J. B. Beruadou, ensign U. S. Navy, 1886. 

38327. 
Yellow and green marble [Serpentine]. Stone pencil jar of. J. B. Bernadou, 

1886. 38328. 
Yellow marble. Disk of. J. B. Bernadou, 1886. 38329. 
Ophiolite. White and green mottled. Slab 10 by 20 inches. J. B. Bernadou, 1886. 

38330. 



Steatite (?). Massive; compact; dark greenish gray. 6iby6i by 1 inches. Hitachi. 
Centennial, 1876. 27552. 

Massive; dark green, nearly black. 5^ by 5i by 1 inches. Hitachi. Centen- 

nial, 1876. 27553. 

Massive; compact; dark green, nearly black. 6 by G by 1 inches. Hitachi. 

Centennial, 1876. 27554. 

Massive; compact; dark greenish gray. 6 by 6 by 1 inches. Hitachi. Centen- 

nial, 1876. 27534. 

Massive; compact; dark green, nearly black, with white spots. 6 by 6 by 1 

inches. Hitachi. Centennial, 1876. 27535. 

Massive; compact ; dark green and gray mottled. 6J by 6^ by 1 inches. Hitachi. 

Centennial, 1876. 27560. 

Massive; compact; dark green, nearly black. 11 by 6J by 2J inches. Hizen. 

Centennial, 1876. 27561. 

Massive ; compact ; dark green, nearly black. 6 by 6 by 1 inches. Hitachi. 

Centennial, 1876. 275.')5. 

Massive; compact; dark green, nearly black. 6 ^)y 6 by 1 inches. Hitachi. 

Centennial, 1876. 27557. 

Massive ; compact ; dark greenish gray. 6 by 6 by 1 inches. Hitachi. Cen- 

tennial, 1876. 27559. 

Massive; compact ; dark green and gray. 6 by 6 by 1 inches. Hitachi. Cen- 

tennial, 1876. 27540. 

Massive ; dark greenisli gray. 6 by 6 by 1 inches. Hitachi. Couteuuial, 1876. 

27550. 

Massive; dark green, nearly black. 6 by 6 by 1 inclies. Tagagori, Hitachi. 

Centennial, 1876. 27551. 



632 



REPORT O^f NATIONAL MaSEUit, 1886. 



Marble. White. 3| by 3^ by i inches. Mino Province. Centennial, 1876. 2713?. 

Pink, black, and white, brecciated. 3f by 3^ by ^^ inches. Mino Province. Cen- 

tennial, 1876. 27138. 

Black, with white fossils. SJ by 3i by i inches. Mino Province. Centennial, 

1876. 27139. 

Black and white ; breccia. SJ by 3| by i inches. Mino Province. Centen- 

nial, 1876. 27140. 

Dark gray, black spotted. 3i by 3^ by i inches. Mino Province. Centen- 

nial, 1876. 27141. 

White, green veined. 6^ by 6^ by 1 inches. Hitachi. Centennial, 1876. 27536. 

White ; crystalline. 6^ by 6^ by 1 inches. Hitachi. Centennial, 1876. 27538. 

White, with blue-gray veins ; resembles the Italian bardiglio. 6 by 6 by 1 

inches. Two specimens. Hitachi. Centennial, 1876. 27539. 

White, green veined. 6 by 6 by 1 inches. Hitachi. Centennial, 1876. 27542. 

White, green veined. 6 by 6 by 1 inches. Hitachi. Centennial, 1876. 27541. 

White, green veined. 6J by 6i by 1 inches. Hitachi. Centennial, 1876. 27543. 

White, with blue-gray veins ; resembles the Italian bardiglio. Two speci- 

mens. 6 by 6 by 1 inches. Hitachi. Centennial, 1876. 27544. 
— — White, green veined. 6 by 6 by 1 inches. Hitachi. Centennial, 1876. 27545. 

White ; crystalline. 6^ by 6J by 1 inches. Hitachi. Centennial, 1876. 27546. 

White; crystalline. 6J by 6J- by 1 inches. Hitachi. Centennial, 1876. 27547. 

White, green veined. 6i by 6J by 1 inches. Hitachi. Centennial, 1876. 27558. 

White; crystalline. G| by 6^ by 1 inches. Hitachi. Centennial, 1876. 27548. 

White; crystalline. 6^ by 6^ by 1 inches. Hitachi. Centennial, 1876. 27549. 

RUSSIA. 

Quartz porphyry. Dull red base, with large porphyritic feldspars and quartzes. 2^ 
by 2^ inches. Isle Hoghland. Russian Centennial Commission, 1876. 27582. 

A compact purplish base, carrying porphyritic yellowish and reddish feldspars. 

3 by 4 inches. Nishne-Issetsk Works, district of Katharinenburg, Ural. 
Russian Centennial Commission, 1876. 27565, 

(Porphyry.) A compact purplish rock, with very many white porphyritic 

feldspars and glassy quartz. 4 by 5 inches. Isle Hoghland. Russian Cen- 
tennial Commission, 1876. 27580. 

(Porphyry.) Red base, with large reddish feldspars and glassy quartzes. 2^ 

by 3 inches. Isle Hoghland. Russian Centennial Commission, 1876. 27581. 

(Keratitic porphyry.) Very fine and compact; nearly black, with small 

porphyritic feldspars and quartzes, arranged in nearly parallel indistinct 
bands. 3^ by 4 inches. Lake Narori, district of Katharinenburg, Ural. 
Russian Centennial Commission, 1876. 27568. 

(Keratitic porphyry. ) Dark gray, nearly black, with abundant porphyritic 

whitish feldspars and quartzes. Irregular fragment, 2 by 3 inches. River 
Tcherveuka, district of Katharinenburg, Ural. Russian Centennial Com- 
mission, 1876. 27566. 
Porphyry conglomerate. (Keratitic porphyry.) A greenish-black conglomerate, 

composed of felsitic (?) fragments very closely compacted by a siliceous paste. 

3 by 4 inches. Redoubt Kolpatsk, district of Katharinenburg, Ural. Russian 

Centennial Commission, 1876. 27567. 
Porphyry breccia. (Keratitic porphyry.) A red, compact breccia, composed of 

porphyry particles. 4 by 4 inches. Redoubt Kolpatsk, district of Kathariuen- 

l)urg, Ural. Russian Centennial Commission, 1876. 27570. 



BmLDlNG AND ORNAMfcNtAL StONKS. 633 

Diorite porphyry. A compact, greenish rock, with irregular yellowish blotches. 
3 by 4 inches. District of Katharinenburg, Ural. Russian Centennial Commis- 
sion, 1876. 27571. 

A compact felsitic rock, coasisting of a deep purplish base, streaked and spotted 

with irregular white and brownish spots. 4 by 2^ inches. Village Sidelni- 
kowa, district of Katharinenburg, Ural. Russian Centennial Commission, 
1876. 27572. 

Compact ; green, with small porphyritic feldspars. 3| by 4 inches. River 

Konda, district of Katharinenburg, Ural. Russian Centennial Commission, 
1876. 27573. 
Diorite. Very fine-grained and compact green, with yellowish flecks and streaks. 
3 by 4| inches. Beresovsk mines, district of Katharinenburg, Ural. Russian 
Centeuuial Commission, 1876. 27574. 

Very compact; nearly black, with grayish streaks. 3 by 4 inches. Fort Sa- 

narskaia, district of Katharinenburg, Ural. Russian Centennial Commission. 
1876. 27575. 

Jasper. Compact ; dull red. 3 by 4 inches. Neviansk Works, district of Katha- 
riuenburg, Ural. Russian Centennial Commission, 1876. 27578. 

(9) Australia. 

Marble. White. 9 by 9 by 1 inches. New South Wales. Centennial, 1876. 19500. 

Wiiite, yellow veins. 9 by 9 by 1 inches. New South Wales. Centennial, 1876. 

19501. 

Dark gray, nearly black . 9 by 9 by 1 inches. New South Wales. Centennial, 

1876. 19502. 

Blue-gray mottled. 9 by 9 by 1 inches. New South Wales. Centennial, 1876. 

19504. 

Gray. 8-inch cube. Centennial, 1876. 25215. 

White. 11^ by 12 by 4 inc hes. New South Wales. Centennial, 1876. 25201. 

Gray. About 12 by 12 by 4 inches. New South Wales. Centennial, 1876. 25210. 

■ White. 12 by 12 by 4 inches. New South Wales. Centennial, 1876. 25211. 

Black. 12 by 12 by 4i iucbes. New South Wales. Centennial, 1876. 25212. 

Gray and yellow mottled. 12-inch cube. New South Wales. Centennial, 1876. 

25092. 

Light mottled. 8i-iuch cube. Centennial, 1876. 25216. 

Gray. 9-inch cube. Centennial, 1876. 26022. 

Gray mottled. S^-inch cube. Centennial, 1876. 26024. 

Sandstone. Light colored; medium. 12-inch cube. New Soutli Wales. Centen- 
nial, 1876. 25202. 

Light colored ; modluiii. 12-lnch cube. New South Wales. Centennial, 1876. 

25203. 

Light colored; medium. 12-iuch cube. New South Wales. Centennial, 1876. 

25214. 

Hornblende biotite granite. Coarse; gray. 12-iuch cube. New South Wales. 
Centennial, 1876. 25213. 

(10) Hawaiian Islands. 

Limestone. Light colored; cellular. 12-inch cube. Island of Oahu. Walne quarry. 
Boston Foreign Exhibition, 1884. 35540. 



IN DEX 



Absorption of stone, ratio of 333 

Accessory minerals, definition of 292 

Acid gases on sandstone, effect of 340 

Acidic rocks 307 

^olian rocks, deiiniiion of 52 1 

Africa, limestones and marbles in 475 

specimens of building stones from G29 

Alabama, limestones and dolo>uites in 392 

marbles in 374 

sandstones in 445 

specimens of limestone from 526 

specimens of marble from 526 

specimens of sandstone from 526 

Alabaster, composition of 370 

Italy 473 

nses of 370 

Algeria, specimens of marble from 629 

Allan, Hon. Alanson, opened first slate 

quarry near Cornwall, Vt 471 

Ampbibole, characters of 296 

plagioclase rocks 439 

Amygdaloid, variety of melapbyr 438 

Analysis of Plymouth marble 390 

of serpentine 365 

Andesite, characters and structure of 440 

Antique porphyry, use of 433 

Aragonite, character of 298 

Argentine Confederation, specimens of 

building stone from 616 

Argillaceous, definition of 521 

f ragmental rocks 464 

rocks 307 

sandstone 445 

Arizona, sandstone in 445 

specimen of limestone from 526 

specimens of sandstone from 526 

Arkansas, limestones and dolomites in 392 

maiblos in 375 

sandstones in 445 

soapstone in 358 

specimens of elxolite syenite from .. .526, 527 

specimens of limestone from 527 

Arkoso, definition of 445 

Ashlar masonry, definition of 521 

Asia, specimens of building stone from. . .. 631 

Augite andesite, character of 440 

granite 408 

hornblende gneiss 413 

plagioclase rucks 432 



Page. 
Augusta and New York Granite Company. 287 
Augusta and Pliiladelphia Granite Com- 
pany 287 

Augusta Blue Ledge Company 288 

Au Sable granite or norite 437 

Australia, export of elate to 291 

specimens of buUding stone from 633 

Austria, marbles of 479 

Axhammored face finish 319 

As used in stone- working 329 

B. 

Back joints in rocks 310 

Bardiglio, definition of 521 

veined marbles from Seravezza quar- 
ries 480 

Basalt, characters of 438 

places of occurrence of 438 

Basic rocks 307 

Bastard granite, definition of 521 

Bates, Mr., opened granite quarry at Sandy 

Hook 287 

quarries, granite in 1824 •. 419 

Bath oolite in England 477 

Bavaria, specimen of granite from 617 

specimens of lithographic limestone 

from 617 

Bedded, deflnitionof 525 

" Bedford " limestones in Illinois 396 

shale in Ohio 456 

Belgium, marbles in 476 

specimens of marble from 617 

Berea grit, characters of 457 

chemical composition of 458 

in Ohio 456 

properties of 457 

quarrying of 313 

use of 443 

Borea shale in Ohio 456 

Bermuda, building stones of 477 

specimens of coralline limestone from. 610 

Bibliography of works on building stone .. 519 

Biotite granite 408 

in Maine 413 

in Massachusetts 420 

Bird's-eye griotte, variety of griotte 478 

marble 378 

marble, definition of 521 

635 



636 



ftEf Oftf ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



Page. 

Bituminous, definitiou of 521 

limestone, description of 372 

rocks 307 

Black marble, Italy 481 

Bluestone, definitions of 521 

quarrying of 454 

Bottom joints in rocks 310 

Bougard marble from Germany 479 

Brard's process of ascertaining the poros- 

ityof stone 334 

Brazil, specimen of biotite gneiss from 616 

specimens of marble from .... 616 

Breast of quarry, definition of 521 

Breccia marble, Italy 481 

occurrence of 378 

Breccias, characters of 444 

definition of 521 

Brick, specific gravity of 334 

British Provinces of North America, gran- 
ites 485 

sandstones 486 

specimens of building stone from 609 

Brocatelle marble occurring in southern 

France 479 

Bryant, Gridley 286 

Building stone, selection of 345 

Building stones in Museum, chief sources of. 277 

weathering of 331 

Bush-hammered finish 319 

Bush -hammer used in stone'working 329 

Butt, definition of 521 

C. 

Caen stone quarries in Normandy 479 

Calcareous, definition of 521 

rocks 307 

sandstones 445 

Calcite, characters of 297 

Calcium svriphate, characters of 298 

Calc sinter, characters of 372 

Calc-spar, characters of 297 

California, granites in 411 

specimen of hornblende granite (?) from. 527 

liparite in 430 

marbles in 375 

sandstones in 446 

serpentine in 362 

specimens of audesite tuff from 528 

specimens of biotite granite from 527 

specimen of diorite from 528 

specimens of hornblende biotite granite 

from 527 

specimen of marble from 527 

specimen of steatite (soapstono) from.. 527 

specimens of basalt from 527 

specimens of hornblende granite from.. 527 

specimens of limestone from 527 

specimens of magnesian limestone from. 527 

specimens of sandstone from 528 

specimens of travertine (marble) from.. 527 

Canada, slates from 488 

specimen of limestone from 609 

specimen of sandstone from 609, 610 

specimen of slate from 609 

epecimons of biotite granite from 610 



Canada, specimens of hornblende granite 

from 610 

Cape Ann Granite Company 287 

Carbonaceous rocks 307 

Carrara marble, disintegration of 313 

Catalogue of building and ornamental stones 

in National Museum 526 

Catlinite, characters of 471 

colors of 471 

occurrence of 472 

Cavernous, definition of 521 

Cellular, definition of 521 

Chalk, composition of 373 

Chamberlain, Prof. T. C, on granite and 

gneiss in "Wisconsin 426 

Channeling machines 321 

Chelmsford granite 286 

Chemical action of the atmosphere on build- 
ing stones 337 

agencies affecting building stones 336 

characters of rocks 307 

composition of rocks 297 

composition of aragonite 298 

composition of dolomite 298 

composition of epidote 299 

composition of garnet 299 

composition of granite 408 

composition of gypsum 2D8 

composition of hematite 301 

composition of iron pyrites 300 

composition of liparite 429 

composition of magnetite 301 

composition of olivine 299 

composition of quartz 294 

composition of serpentine 298 

composition of stones, tables showing 

the 502 

composition of talc 298 

China, specimen of granite from 631 

specimen of rhyolite from 631 

specimens of tuff from 631 

Chisel used in stone-working 330 

Chlorite, characters of.. 299 

granite 408 

Circular saws, use of 327 

Classification of rocks 308 

Clastic, definition of 522 

Clayholes, definition of 521 

Colorado, granite in 412 

limestones and dolomites in 392 

liparite in • 430 

marbles in 376 

sandstones in 446 

specimen of diorite from 528 

specimen of muscovite gneiss from 528 

specimen of quartzite from 529 

specimens of biotite granite from.. 528 

specimens of limestone from 528 

specimens of rhyolite tuff from 529 

specimens of sandstone from 528, 529 

Color of calcite 297 

of pyroxenes 297 

of stones 306 

of micas 296 

Colored marbles •■.• 385 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



637 



Page. 

Compact common limestone, characters of. 372 

Composition of sandstones SOt 

of the atmosph<iro ;i:!6 

of theniicas 295 

Compressive resistance of stone 490 

Conchoidal fracture 521 

Concretionary, detinition of 522 

Conglomerates, characters of 444 

definition of 522 

Connecticut, diabase in 434 

granites in 412 

marbles in 376 

sandstone qnarrying in 289 

sanrtstones in 44ti 

serpentine in 303 

specimen of biotite muscovite gneiss 

from 530 

specimen of biotito muscovite granite 

from 530 

specimen of diabase from 531 

specimen of granite from 531 

specimens of biotite gneiss from 530, 531 

specimens of biotite granite from 529, 530 

specimens of dolomite [marble] from... 529 
specimens of hornblende biotite gneiss 

from 531 

specimens of sandstone from 531 

Conover, Professor, on limestone in Illinois. 394 

Coquina, detinition of 522 

Coral limestone, definition of 522 

rock, composition of 37'j 

Cordierite granite 408 

Corea, box of mottled yellowstone from... 631 

disk of yellow marble from 631 

specimens of opbiolito from 631 

stone-pencil jar of yellow and green 

marble from 631 

Cost of cutting stone 510 

Crandall, used in stone-working 330 

Crinoidal limestones 373 

Crystalline, definition of 522 

limestone, characters of 371 

rocks 302 

Crystallized gypsum 370 

Cubical expansion, cooflicient of 341 

Curb, definition of ,'■,22 

Curvature and fracture 342 

Cutting and dressing stone 313 

and polishing stone, methods of 609 

out the corners in quarrying 323 

stone, cost of 5 10 

Cuyahoga shale in Ohio 456 

D. 

Dacite, characters of 44O 

Dakota, sandstones in 448 

specimens of quartzite from 531 

Dana, Professor, on dikes of diabase 433 

Delaware, granites in 413 

marbles in 370 

serpentine in 364 

Delaw;ire, spocimous of augite hornblende- 
gneiss from 531 

Bpecimensof dolomite [marble] from ... -Wl 



Page. 

Delesse, on color of serpentine 361 

Density of rocks 302 

Deoxidatiou, process of 338 

Diabase, character and structure of 432 

chemical composition of 433 

Connecticut ; 434 

definition of 522 

Maine 434 

Massachusetts 435 

New Jersey 435 

Pennsylvania 436 

specific gravity of 433 

structure of 304 

Virginia 436 

Diamond channeling-niachiue 324 

gadding-raachlne 325 

Dikes, definition of 522 

of diabase, occ urrence of 433 

Diorite, characters of 439 

chemical composition of 439 

definition of 522 

derivation of name 439 

specimens from Colorado 528 

Dip, definition of . 522 

joints in rocks 310 

Disintegration of granite 340 

District of Columbia, soap-stone in 358 

specimen of steatite [soapstoue] from.. 532 

Dix Island, granite quarries on 416 

Dolomite, characters of 374 

definition of 522 

Dolomites, chemical composition of 371 

origin of 371 

varieties of 371 

Dolomitic limestones 373 

Dressing of specimens for exhibition 277 

Dressing stones, methods of . 353 

Drilling holes for splitting stone 314 

Drills and drilling-machines 320 

Drove used in stone-working 330 

"Dry," definition of 522 

Durability of stones, comparison of 349 

E. 

Earthy rocks , 306 

Eclipse rock-drill ,. 321 

Effects of friction on stone 335 

of growing organisms on stone 335 

Egleston, Professor, on abrasion of stone .. 335 

Egypt, granite of Syene 4(54 

specimen of nummulitic limestone from 630 

specimen of onyx-marble from.. 630 

specimen of porphyrite from 630 

specimens of granite from 630 

Egyptian onyx 475 

End joints in rocks 310 

England, Bath oolite in 477 

export of slate to 291 

Portland stone in 473 

serpentinous rocks in 473 

specimen of serpentine from 616 

specimens of slate from 616 

Enstatite 433 

Eolian marble in Vermont 388 

Epidote, characters of 299 



638 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



Page. 

Epidote granite 408 

granite in Masaachusetta 420 

Escarpment, definition of 522 

Essential minerals, definition of 292 

Euclid bluestone in Cuyahoga County, Ohio 456 

source of 458 

use of ....• 443 

Europe, specimens of buildinj^ stone from.. 617 

Expansion and contraction of stone 332 

Exportation of marble and stone, and manu- 
facture of marble and stone of foreign 

production 514 

of domestic production 513 

Export of slate, 1876-1880 291 

F. 

Face hammer used in stone working 329 

Feldspars, characters of the 291 

Ferruginous, definition of 522 

rocks 307 

sandstones 445 

Fibrous, definition of.. 522 

gypsum 370 

Field, Dr., on granite quarries at Haddam 

Neck 287 

Fine sand finish 320 

Finishing, methods of 349 

' ' Fiorto " marble from Persia 384 

First stones quarried 285 

Flagg, Mr., opens slate quarry in Lancaster, 

Mass 467 

Flag-stone, definition of 522 

variety of sandstone 445 

Flint, definition of 522 

Flinty rocks. „ 306 

Florentine marbles 473 

Florida^ limestone in 392 

specimens of limestone from 532 

specimens of sandstone from 532 

Foliated, definition of 522 

rocks 441 

Formosa marble from Germany 479 

Fossiliferous limestones 373 

Fragmental, definition of 522 

rocks 302 

rocks, characters of 443 

France, specimen of fossil marble from 618 

specimen of jasper marble from 618 

specimen of limestone from 617 

specimens of marble from 617-618 

Frankfort Granite Company 288 

Free quarrying in Connecticut 289 

Freestone, definition of 522 

variety of sandstone 445 

French chalk, description of 298 

French marbles 478 

Friablerocks 306 

Friction, eflectsof 335 

G. 

Gabbro, characters of 437 

places of occurrence of 437 

Gadding-machiuea 311 

use of 324 

Garnet, characters of 29!) 

Geikie, Professor, on joints iu rocka ,. 310 



Page. 
Genth, Professor, on serpentines of Mary- 
land 364 

Geological Record 309 

Georgia, granites in 413 

marbles in 377 

sandstones in 449 

slates in • 466 

specimen of gneiss [with pagodite] 

from 532 

specimen of hornblende hiotite gneiss 

from 532 

specimen of muacovite granite from . .. 632 

specimens of marble from 532 

German emigrants, process of stone-cutting 

introduced by 315 

Germany, exports of slate to 291 

marbles imported from 479 

specimens of marble from 618 

Glacial action on rock, effect of 347 

Glassy, definition of 525 

Glossary of terms 521 

Gneiss, definition of 522 

quarries in Massachusetts 420 

structure of 441 

Gneissoid, definition of 522 

Goode, G.Brown 392 

Grain, definition of 522 

of rocks 306 

Granite, average chemical composition of.. 408 

average specific gravity of 408 

definition of 523 

disintegration of 340 

early use for building purposes 285 

expansion and contraction of 332 

from Chelmsford, buildings constructed 

of 286 

from Quincy quarries 286 

in Maine, hornblende 417 

production at Quincy 286 

quarrying 311 

uses of 410 

varieties of 408 

Grauitell 408 

Granites and gneisses, composition of 407 

origin of 407 

Granites, California 411 

Colorado 412 

Connecticut 412 

Delaware 413 

Egypt 484 

Georgia 413 

Maine 413 

Massachusetts 418 

Maryland 418 

Minnesota 421 

Missouri 422 

Montana 422 

New Brunswick 485 

New Hampshire 422 

New Jersey 423 

New York 423 

Nova Scotia 485 

Granites of the various States and Terri- 
tories 411 

Pennsylvania 424 

Rhode Island .--., 434 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



639 



Page. 

Gran'tes, Scotland 485 

South Carolina 425 

Tennessee 424 

Texas 425 

Utah 425 

Vermont 425 

Virginia 426 

Wisconsin 426 

"Wyoming 425 

Granite rocks, foreign 484 

Granitoid, definition of 523 

Granular, definition of 523 

Graphic granite 408 

Gray wacke, variety of sandstone 445 

Great Britain, slates 488 

specimens of building stones from 616 

Greenstone, definition of 523 

Grinding and polishing, methods of 326 

Griotto or French red, character and use of. 478 

Grit, definition of 523 

Grub-saw 531,523 

Griinstein, definition of 523 

Guys, definition of 523 

Gypsum, characters of 298 

composition of 370 

Illinois 370 

Iowa 370 

localities of occurrence 370 

New York 370 

Ohio 370 

Tennessee 370 

uses of 370 

Virginia 370 

H. 

Hackly fracture, definition of 523 

Hall, Professor, on weathering of rocks 343 

Hand-drill used in stone- working 330 

Hand-hammer used in stone- working 330 

Hand implements used in stone- working.. . 329 

Hardness of rocks 302 

Hawaiian Islands, specimen of limestone 

from 633 

Heat and cold affecting weathering of build- 
ing stones 331 

Helderberg limestone in Maine 400 

Hematite, characters of 301 

Historical notes 285 

Hitchcock, Professor, on granite quarries in 

New Hampshire 423 

Hornblende andesite, character of 440 

Homblendo-biotito granite 408 

Hornblende, character of 296 

granite 408 

Hulburt and Roberts, sandstone quarry of. 290 

Hydraulic limestone, description of 372 

Hypersthene 432 

I. 

Idaho, sandstones in 448 

specimens of sandstone from 532 

Illinois, gjpsum in 370 

limestones and dolomites in 394 

sandstones in 448 



Page. 
Illinois, specimen of bituminous dolomite 

from 534 

specimen of calcareous dolomite from. 534 

specimen of magnesian limestone from. 533 

specimens of dolomite from 533, 534 

specimens of limestone from 532, 533 

specimens of sandstone from 534, 535 

Implements used in stone-workin g 320 

Importation of budding stone (exclnsivo of 
marble) paving stone and stone bal- 
last 513 

Imports and exports of stone 512 

Indiana, limestones and dolomites in 396 

sandstones in 449 

specimen of bituminous magnesian lime- 
stone from 536 

specimen of siliceous limestone from .. 536 
specimens of bituminous limestone 

from 5^6 

specimens of dolomite from 536 

specimens of ferruginous dolomite from . 537 
specimens of lithographic limestone 

from 536 

specimens of limestone from 535 

specimens of magnesian limestone from 536 

specimens of sandstone from 537 

Indian pipestone [Catlinite] 471 

Indian Territory, specimens of limestone 

from. 537 

Induration of stone on exposure 339 

Ingersoll impact drill 312 

standard gadding-machine 326 

Internal disintegration of rocks 342 

Introductory remarks 285 

■'Inyo" marble, described by Professor 

Hanks 376 

Iowa, gypsum in 370 

limestones and dolomites in 398 

marbles in 377 

marbles in Tama County, Iowa 398 

sandstones in 449 

specimen of ferruginous sandstone 

from 54 1 

specimen of gypsum from 537 

specimens of bituminous limestone and 

dolomite from 539 

specimens of calcareous dolomite from. 539 

specimens of dolomite from 537, 538 

specimens of ferrugnious dolomite from 538, 

539 

specimens of limestone from 539, 540, 541 

specimens of magnesian limestone from . 539 
specimens of magnesian limestone [mar- 
ble] from 537 

specimens of sandstone from 541 

specimens of siliceous dolomite from. . . 538 

specimens of siliceous limestone from.. 541 

Iron pyrites, characters of 300 

Isle La Motte marble 391 

Italian marble, price list of 511 

Italy, alabaster 370,473 

marble quarries in 480 

serpentinous rocks in 474 

B])eciraen of Bardiglio marble from 620 

specimen of quartzite from 621 



640 



EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



Page. 

Italy, specimen ot volcanic tuff from 621 

specimens of breccia marble from 620 

specimens of granite from 621 

specimens of limestone from 621 

specimens of marble from 618, 619, 620 

specimens of sandstone from 621 

specimens of serpentine from 618 

specimens of travertine from 620, 621 

J. 

Jackson, Dr., on slate in Maine 466 

Japan, building stones of 482 

specimens of marble from 632 

specimens of steatite from 631 

Joints, definition of 532 

in rocks 310 

Joliet limestone quarries 395 

K. 

Kansas, limestones and dolomites in 393 

sandstones in 419 

specimens of dolomite from 543 

specimens of limestone from 541 , 542, 543 

specimens of sandstone from 543, 544 

Kentucky, limestones and dolomites in 399 

sandstone in 449 

specimens of dolomite from 546 

specimeus of limestone from 544, 545, 546 

specimens of sandstone from 546 

Kuhlman's process for protecting stone 356 

L. 

Labradorite granite or norite 437 

Lathes, use of 327 

Lawrence, Amos 286 

Ledge, definition of 523 

"Lepanto" marble 390 

Lepidomelano, description of 296 

Lewin's process, for protection of atone 356 

Lewis hole, definition of 523 

Limestone, bituminous, description of 372 

blue, specific gravity of 334 

compact common, characters of 372 

crystalline, characters of 371 

definition of 523 

Helderburg 400 

hydraulic 372 

lithographic 372 

Limestones and dolomites, Alabama 392 

Arkansas 392 

Colorado 392 

Florida.- 392 

Illinois 394 

Indiana 396 

Iowa 398 

Kansas 393 

Kentucky 399 

Maine 400 

Michigan 400 

Minnesota 400 

Missouri 402 

Nebraska 402 

New York 402 

North Carolina — .,.,, 403 



Page. 

Limestones and dolomites, occurrence of 392 

Ohio 404 

Pennsylvania 405 

Tennessee 405 

Texas 405 

Wisconsin 406 

Limestones and marbles, Africa 475 

foreign 475 

Limestone, chemical composition of 371 

composed largely of organic remains. . . 373 

crinoidal 373 

dolomitic 373 

fossiliferous 373 

magnesian 373 

oolitic, description of 372 

origin of 371 

shell 373 

varieties of 371 

Limonite 301 

Liparito, adaptability for constructive pur- 
poses 429 

chemical composition of 429 

mineral composition of 429 

places of occurrence 430 

varieties of 429 

Lisbon marble, color and texture of 483 

List of important stone structures in the 

United States 515 

List of minerals occuiring in building and 

ornamental stones 293 

Lithographic limestone, description of 372 

Liver rock, definition of 523 

Lizard serpentine 362 

Logan group of rocks in Ohio 456 

Louisiana, specimen of sandstone from 546 

specimens of quartzite from 546 

Lumachelle marble, characters and source 

of 480 

Lyonaise marble, use of 390 

definition of 523 

M. 

Machines used in stone working 320 

Macroscopic structuie of rocks 302 

"Madrepore" marble 378 

from Devonian bed near Charles City, 

Iowa 399 

Magnesian limestones 373 

Magnetic iron ore, characters of 301 

Magnetite, characters of 301 

Maine, diabase in 434 

granites in 413 

limestones and dolomites in 400 

porphyry in 428 

serpentine in 364 

slates in 466 

specimens of biotite muscovite granite 

from 548 

specimen of diabase from 549 

specimen of elseoli^e syenite from 549 

specimen of hornblende granite from . . 549 

specimen of serpentine from 546 

specimen of talcose schist from 549 

specimens of biotite gneiss from 548 

specimens of biotite granite from. 546, 547, 548 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



G41 



Page. 
Maine, spccimeus of hornblende biotite gran- 
ite from 549 

sjiccimens of muscovite biotito gneiss 

from 518,010 

specimens of ninscovito biotito grauilo 

from 549 

specimens of slato from 549 

Mallet used in stone-working 330 

Marble, characters of 371 

definition of 525 

in Vermont, Eoliau 388 

" Isle La Motte " 391 

"Leijanto" 300 

Lyonaise 390 

Plymouth 39G 

quarries in Verraout 289 

quarrying 311 

quarrying in Montgomery County, Pa. 289 

quarrying in Now England, early 288 

Marble?, Alabama 374 

Arkansas 375 

Belgium 476 

California 375 

Colorado 376 

colored 385 

Connecticut . 370 

Delaware 376 

exportation of 513 

Georgia 377 

shrinkage in 332 

imports and exi)orts of 512 

Iowa 377 

Italy 480 

localities of 374 

Maryland 378 

Massachusetts 379 

Missouri 379 

Montana 480 

iNewYork... 380 

North Carolina 381 

Pennsylvania 382 

specific gravity of 334 

Tennessee 383 

Texas 385 

U tab 38(i 

Vermont 380 

Virginia 391 

Markets for Massachusetts granite 287 

Marmolite, North Carolina 3i;7 

ilannor Laredaimonium viride 433 

Maryland, bracket of carved slato fro:ii 551 

granites in 418 

marbles in 378 

sandstones in 4 19 

serpentine in 3tJ4 

slates in 4()ii 

specimen of biotite epidoto gneiss from 551 

specimen of hornblende gneiss from 551 

specimen of magnesian limestone from. 551 

.-specimen of siliceous limestone from .. 551 

specimens of biotite gneiss from 550 

specimens of biotite granite from 550 

specimens of conglomerate breccia [mar- 
ble] from 550, 551 

specimens of dolomite Imarblc] from -. 550 

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 41 



Page 
Maryland, specimens of magnesian lime- 
stone [marble] from 550 

specimens of sandstone from 551 

specimens of serpentine from 549, 550 

specimens of slate from 551 

specimens of steatite from 549 

Massachusetts, diabase in 435 

granites in 418 

marbles in 379 

porphyry in 428 

sandstones in 450 

serpentine in 305 

slates in 466 

soapstono in 358 

specimen of biotite granite from 553 

specimen of conglomerate from 555 

specimen of gi'anite from 555 

si)Ocimen of hornblende biotite [annitej 

granite from 554 

specimen of magnesian limestone from. 552 

specimen of melaphyr from 555 

specimen of muscovite biotito gneiss. . . 553 
specimen of muscovite biotito granito 

from 555 

.specimen of quartz porphyry from 555 

specimen of steatite from 551 

specimens of biotite gneiss from 553, 554 

specimen of biotite granito from 554 

specimens of biotito muscovite granite 

from 555 

specimens of diabase from 555 

specimens of dolomite [marble] from. .. 552 

specimens of epidote granite from 5,53 

specimens of hornblende granite from. 552, r53, 

554, 555 
specimens of limestone [marble] from.. 552 
gpocimens of magnesian limoHtone [mar- 
ble] from 552 

specimens of muscovite gneiss from ... 553 

specimens of sandstone from 555 

specimens of serpentine from 551 

Massive, definition of 523 

Mather, Professor, on roofing-slate forma- 
tion iu New York 468 

Matthews, Jonathan, quarried granito 288 

Maxvillo limestones iu Ohio 456 

McDonald stone-cutting machine 328 

Melaphyr, characters of 438 

places of occurrence of 438 

Methods of cutting and polishing stone t:09 

of quarry ing and dre.s.sing 310 

Mexican onyx, occurrence and colors of . . . 482 

Mexico, specimen of basalt lull from 015 

building stones of 482 

specimen of dacite from 615 

specimen of limestone from CI I 

specimen of marble from 610 

specimen of pumice tuff from 615 

specimen of rhyolite pitclistone from.. 614 

specimen of travertine from 611 

specimens of andesite from 614 

specimens of basalt from 615 

specimens of gypsum from 610 

specimens of hornblende andesite 

from 614, C15 



642 



liEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



Page. 
Mexico, specimons of hyperstliene andesito 

from 614 

specimens of limestone [marble] from.CtO, 611 

specimens of pumice from 615 

specimens of rhyolite from 613, 614 

specimons of rhyolito tuff from 613 

specimens of sandstone from 615 

specimens of travertine [Mexican onyx] 

from 611 

specimens of tuff from 611, 612 

il ica andesito, cliaracters of 440 

Micas, characters of the 295 

Michigan, limestones and dolomites In 400 

sandstones in 450 

slates in 467 

specimens of biotite gneiss from 556 

specimen of granite from 556 

specimen of quartzite from 556 

specimens of limestone from 555,556 

specimens of sandstone from 556 

specimens of slate from 556 

Microscopic structures of rocks 302 

Middlesex Quarry Company 290 

Minerals occurring in building and orna- 
mental stones 292 

occurring in schists 441 

Minnesota, granites in 421 

limestones and dolomites in 400 

porphyry in 428 

sandstones in 451 

slates in 467 

specimen of calcareous dolomite from . 557 

specimens of gabbro from 558 

specimen of massive lahradorite from. . 558 

specimen of olivine diabase from 558 

specimen of quartzite from 558 

specimen of slate from 558 

specimens of diabase from 557, 558 

specimens of dolomite from 556 

specimens of granite from 557 

specimens of hornblende granite from . 557 
specimens of hornblende mica granite 

from 557 

specimens of limestone from 557 

specimens of magnesian Umestono from 557 

specimens of quartz porphyry from . . . 557 

specimens of sandstone from 558 

specimens of siliceous dolomite from. . . 557 
specimens of siliceous magnesian lime- 
stone from 557 

Mississippi, sandstones in 452 

si)ecimen of argillaceous sandstone from 558 

specimen of limestone from 558 

specimens of sandstone from 558 

Missouri, granites in 422 

limestones and dolomites in 402 

marbles in 379 

porphyry in 428 

sandstones in 452 

specimen of ferruginous limestone from 501 

specimen of lithographic limestone from 561 

specimen of olivine diabase from 561 

specimen of quartzite from 562 

specimens of argillaceous limestone 

from 501 



Page. 

Missouri, specimens of biotite granite from. 501 

specimens of calcareous sandstone from 561 

specimens of dolomite from 560 

specimens of hornblende granite from . . 501 

specimens of limestone from 558, 559, 560 

specimens of magnesian limestone from 561 
specimens of magnesian limestone 

[marble] from 5".8 

specimens of sandstone from 562 

specimens of siliceous dolomite from.. 500, 561 

Modulus of elasticity 492 

Montana, granites in 422 

marbles in 380 

sandstones in 452 

specimens of marble from 562 

specimens of hornblende mica granite 

from 562 

Mount "Waldo, granite quarries in 415 

Muscovite biotite granite 408 

structure of 303 

Muscovite granite 408 

X. 

Nebraskii, limestones and dolomites in 402 

specimens of argillaceous limestone 

from ... 562 

specimens of limestone from 562, 563 

Nero antico di Prato occurring in Italy 474 

Nevada, liparite in 430 

sandstone in 453 

specimens of quartz porphyry from 563 

Epecimens of hornblende andesito from 563 

specimen of sandstone from 503 

Nevadites or granitic liparites 429 

New Brunswick, red hornblendic granite in 485 

sandstones 486 

New England, early marble quarrying 288 

New Hampshire, granites in 422 

porphyry in 428 

elates in 468 

Boap-stone in 358 

specimen of biotite gneiss from 565 

specimen of steatite [soap-stone] from.. 563 
epecimens of biotite epidoto gneiss 

from 505 

specimens of biotite granite from 564, 505 

specimens of biotite muscovite granite 

from 563,564 

specimens of muscovite biotite gneiss 

from r65 

specimens of porphyry conglomerate 

from 58 J 

New Haven marble .'!0'! 

New Jersey, diabase in i;;.') 

granites in 4.;! 

sandstones in l.").i 

serpentine in 300 

slates in 408 

specimen of biotite gneiss frora 505 

specimen of dolomite from 50") 

specimen of hornblende granite (?) from 505 

specimen of limestone [marble] from... 505 

specimen of serpentine [ophiolite] from 505 

specimen of slate from 567 



BUILDING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



G43 



Pago. 
New Jersey, spcciiuens of cdiiiiloiiierate 

from ■- . 507 

spocinicns of (liabnse fVom 5G:">, 506 

spociiuens of gntiss from 505 

speciraciis of sandstone from 5GG, 567 

New Mexico, liparito in 430 

sandstones iu 453 

specimens of gypsum from 567 

specimen of pumice from . . 507 

specimens of sandstone from 507 

Now South Wales, specimen of hdriilib ndo 

biotite granite from 633 

specimens of marble from 633 

specimens of sandstone from 633 

New Yori; bluestones, quar:yiny of 312 

New York, granites in 423 

gjqjsum in 370 

limestones and dolomites in 402 

marbles in 380 

sandstones in 453 

serpentine in. 366 

slates in 4G8 

soap-stone in 358 

specimens of argillaceous sandstone 

from 572 

specimens of biotite gneiss from 570 

specimen of biotite granite from 570 

specimen of calcareous dolomite [m.ir- 

ble] from 508 

specimen of dolomite from 570 

specimen of gneiss from 570 

specimen of hornblende gneiss from 570 

specimen of hornblende mica gianite 

from 570 

specimen of norito from 570 

specimen of serpentine [ophiolite, verd- 

antique marble J from 508 

specimens of calcareous sandstone from . 573 

specimens of dolomite [marble] fi om . . . 508 

specimens of limestone from 509 

specimens of limestone [maiblej from . 5f8 
8p( cimens of magnosian limestone 

from 509, 570 

specimens of magnesian limestone [mar- 
ble] from 5G8 

specimens of qnartzito f lom 572 

Bijcciraens of sandstone from 570, 571, 572 

specimens of slate from 572, 573 

Now Zealand, export of slate to 291 

Kiggeiliead, definitions of 523 

North Carolina, limestones and d<domites in 403 

marbles in 381 

porphyry in 428 

sandstones in 455 

seriiimtiue iu 307 

soap-stone in 358 

8i)ecimen of biotite muscovito granite 

from 575 

specimen of hornblende gneiss from 576 

specimen of limestone from 574 

specimen of magnesian limestone from. 574 

ei)ecimcn of muscovife granite from. .. 575 

specimen of siliceous dolomite from . . . 574 

specimens of biotite gneiss from 575, 576 

specimens of biotite granite frym 574, 575 



Page. 

Nortli Carolina, specimens of granite from. 575 
sjiecimens of hornblonde-biotite gneiss 

from 576 

specimen of homblende-biotite granite 

from 575 

specimens of limeslono [marble] from. 573, 574 
si)ecimens of quartz porphyry [leopard- 

ite] from 576 

specimens of san Istone from 576 

.«peciraens of sliell limestone from 574 

specimens of steatite from 573 

North, on acts of incorporation for granite 

companies 287 

Norite, allied to gabbro 437 

Nova Scotia, granite in 485 

sandstones 486 

Numidian marbles, characters of 475 

Nummulitic limestone, oeciirreuce of 470 



Obsidian, abundaneo of 430 

variety of liparito 429 

Ohio, gyijstitn in 370 

limestone, spocimeus in Natii>ual Mu- 
seum 404 

limestones and dolomites in 404 

sandstones in 456 

specimens of siliceous dolomite from.. 578, 579 
specimens of bituminous dolomite 

from 577, 578 

specimens of dolomite from 578 

specimens of ferruginous limestone 

from 579 

specimens of limestone from 576, 577 

specimensof magnesianlimestouefrom. 578 

specimens of sandstone from 579, 580, 581, 

5S2, 583 

Oil as protection to stone 355 

Olivine, characters of 'J99 

Ontario, sandstones from 486 

Oolite, definition of 523 

Oolitic limestone, structure of 303 

limestones, description of 372 

Ophicalcite, composition of 361 

origin of 361 

uses of 361 

Ophiocalcite, definition of 523 

Orbitoides limestone, definition of 524 

Order of succession of rocks 309 

Oregon, sandstone in 459 

specimen of basalt from 583 

Oregon, specimen of diabase from. 583 

specimens of sandstone from 583 

Organisms, effect of growing 335 

Oriental alabaster 372 

(Egyptian onyx), color, structure, and 

use of 476 

Original constituents of rocka 292 

Orthoclaso porphyry 427 

Orton, Professor, gives section of an Amherst 

quarry 457 

Oxidation 337 

P. 

Pago, C. G., experiments of 334 

Paint as protection to stone 354 



644 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886 



Page. 

Paraffine as protection to stone 355 

Patent hammered finish 319 

Patten &. Rassell, sandstone quarry of.."... 290 

Peach Bottom slate in Pennsylvania 469 

Pean hammer used in stone-working 329 

Pearlite, variety of liparite 429 

Pegmatite granite 408 

'Pennsylvania — 

diabase in 436 

granites in 424 

limestone and dolomites in 405 

marbles in 382 

porphyry in 428 

sandstones in 459 

serpentine in 367 

slates in 409 

soap-stone in 359 

specimen of argillaceous sandstone from 590 
specimen of biotito-raascovite gneiss 

from 586 

specimen of calcareous breccia from .. 586 
specimen of calcareous dolomite [mar- 
ble] from 586 

specimen of muscovite gneiss from 586 

specimen of quartz porphyry from 586 

specimen of sandstone [nearly quartz- 

ite] from 590 

specimens of biotite gneiss from 580 

specimens of calcareous breccia [mar- 
ble] from 586 

specimens of calcareous dolomite from. 585 

specimens of conglomorate from 590 

specimens of diabase from 586 

specimens of dolomite from 585 

specimens of hornblende gneiss from .. 586 

specimens of limestone from 583, 584,585 

specimens of limestone [marble] from. 585, 586 

specimens of quartzite from 590 

specimens of sandstone from .587, 588, 539, 590 

specimens of serpentine from 583 

specimens of slate from 590, 591 

Peperino, used in Kome and Naples 464 

Perch, definitions of 524 

Phillips, DeaconJohn , 285 

Phlogopite, description of 296 

Phonolite, characters of 432 

Physical agencies aflfocting weathering of 

building stones 331 

Physical and chemical properties of 

rocks 302 

Pick used in stone-working 330 

Picrolite, North Carolina 307 

Pisolite (limestone) 372 

Pitching-chisel, used in stone-working 330 

Pitchstone 429 

Plagioclane 294 

feldspars 294 

Planers, use of 327 

Plucky, definition of 524 

Plug and feather 313, 330 

Plymouth marble, analysis of 390 

Pointed face fijilsh 319 

Point used in stone-working 330 

Polished surface finish 320 



Page. 

Polishing machines 326 

preparation of stone for 316 

putty, definition of 524 

Porosity of stone, testiui the 333 

Porphyritic, defi nition of 524 

diorite, characters of 439 

diorites, occurrence of 440 

Porphyry, composition of 427 

definition of 524 

origin of 427 

places of occurrence 428 

use of 427 

varieties of 424 

Portland stone in England 478 

Portor, or black and gold marble, from 

Italy 481 

Portugal, specimen of artificial stone from. 628 

specimen of bituminous limestone from. 626 

specimen of granite from 627 

specimenof hornblende andesite from. 627 
specimen of limestone [stalagmiticj 

from 627 

specimen of marble from 627 

specimen of pozzuolana from 627 

specimen of slate from 627 

specimen of stalagmite [marble] from.. 627 

specimen of volcanic tuff from 628 

specimens of basalt from 627 

specimens of calcareous conglomerate 

from 626 

specimens of calcareous sandstone from 626 

specimens of dolomite from 626, 627 

specimens of limestone from.6Jl, 622, C23, 624, 
625, 626. 

specimeniof mica granite from 627 

specimens of sandstone from 626 

specimens of shell limestone from 626 

Powder in quarrying, use of 313 

Preparation of stone for polishing 316 

Price-list of Italian marbles 511 

Prices of stone 510 

Proctor, Professor, politic limestones from. 399 

Protection by means of solution 354 

Protogine granite 408 

Pumice finish 320 

Pumice, variety of liparite 429 

Putty powder, definition of 524 

Pyroxene, characters of 297 

Q. 

Qualities of building stone 489 

Quarry, definition of 524 

Quarrying and dressing, methods of 310 

and splitting slate 318 

granite 311 

marble 311 

marble in Vermont 387 

sandstone 312 

slate for roofing purposes 291 

time of 351 

Quarry water, definition of 524 

Quartz, characters of 294 

porphyries, foreign 486 

porphyry „^, ,„..,. ,.,..,.„, 427 



BDILDIXG AND ORNAMENTAL STONES 



645 



rage. 

Quaitzito, character of 4-10 

Quartzites, cliaractors of 415 

Quiiicy quarries, granite from 280 

K. 

Kausom'a process for protection of stono.. 35G 

Kcil mixed marble, Italy 480 

Reno andesito, use of 440 

llhode Island, granites in 424 

slab of granite from r>9'2 

specimen of biotite gneiss from 592 

specimen of hornblende gneiss from . . . 592 

specimens of l)iotite granite from 591,592 

Ilhyolite, definition of 524 

tuff, character of 4G3 

variety of liparite 429 

Iticliards, Joseph, inventor of patent orbusli 

hammer 329 

liichardson, Architect 307 

Eift, definition of 524 

of rocks 30G 

Robins, Governor 314 

Rock classification 308 

Rock-face finish 319 

Rocks, chemical characters of 307 

classification of 302 

definition of 292 

density of 302 

discussion of 357 

hardness of 302 

structure of 302 

Roofing slate, export value 514 

Rosso Antico, red Egyptian porphyry 439 

Rosso do Levanto [marble] 38 1 

Rubberstone, definition of 524 

Rubble masonry, definition of 524 

Ruin marble, Italy 481 

Russia, quartz porphyries from 486 

specimen of diorito porphjTy from 633 

specimen of jasper from 633 

specimen of porphyry breccia from 632 

specimen of i)orphyry conglomerate 

from 632 

spccimeusof diorito from 633 

si)ecimons of (piartz porphyry from 632 

S. 

Saccharoidal, definition of 524 

Saiford, Dr., history of quarrying industry 

in Tennessee, by 383 

Salt veins, definition of 524 

Sand-blast process, use of 317 

Sand blast, utilization of 329 

Sanders, Mr. R. 11., describes bid of slate 

in Pennsylvania 469 

Sandstone, caily production in Connecti- 
cut 29U 

in Connecticut, quarrying of 447 

quarrying 312 

quarrying in United States 289 

Sandstones, Alabama 4t5 

Arizona 445 

Arkansas 445 

California ... 44G 

Colorado 4t6 

colors of. 4-(4 



Page. 

San<lstones, composition of 443 

Connecticut 440 

Dakota 448 

expansion and contraction i>f 332 

foreign 486 

Georgia 449 

Idaho 448 

Illinois 448 

Indiana 449 

in Kow York, characters of 454 

Iowa 449 

Kansas 449 

Kentucky 449 

Maryland 419 

Massachusetts 4.50 

Michigan 450 

minerals contained in 444 

Minnesota 451 

Mississippi 452 

Missouri 452 

Montana 452 

Nevada 453 

New Jersey 453 

New Mexico 453 

New York 453 

North Carolina 4.55 

of the various States and Territories. . . 445 

Ohio 456 

Oregon 459 

origin of 443 

Pennsylvania 459 

specific gravity of 334 

St ructuro of 304 

Tennessee 460 

Texas 4G0 

texture of 444 

Utah 400 

varieties of 445 

Virginia 461 

Washington Territory 461 

West Virginia 462 

"Wisconsin ' 461 

Sandy Hook granite quarry 287 

Sap, definition of 524 

Sauuders channeling machine 322 

Sawed face finish 320 

Sawing-machincs, employment of 327 

Scab, definition of 524 

Schist, characters and structure of 441 

places of occurrence of 442 

Schistose, definition of 522 

rocks 441 

Schists, minerals occurring in. 411 

Scotland, granites from 485 

sanilstoncs from 487 

siMiciraeu of muscovite-biotite granite 

from G16 

specimens of biotite granite from 010 

specimens of hornblende granite from . 010 

specimens of sandstone I'roni (ilG, G17 

Sculp, definition of 525 

Sculping process •'18 

Secondary constituents of rocks 292 

Seely, Professor, on earlii'st maible ([Harry- 
ing in New F,nglan<l 288 



G46 



REPOET ON NATIONAL MUSP^UM, 1886. 



Page. 

Segregated, definition of 525 

Selection of building stono 345 

Serpentine, California 362 

cbaracters of 298 

composition of 361 

Connecticat 363 

definition of 525 

Delaware 364 

Maine 364 

Maryland 364 

Massachusetts 365 

New Jersey 366 

New York 366 

North Carolina 367 

origin of 361 

Pennsylvania 367 

specific gravity of 365 

uses of 361 

Vermont 368 

of the various States and Territories .. 362 

Serpentinous rocks, England 473 

Italy 474 

Shaler Sc Hall, sandstone quarrj' of 290 

Shaler, Professor 285 

on clay slats for rough building 467 

Sheldon &, Slason, quarries of 317 

Shell limestone, definition of 525 

characters of 373 

Shell sand-rocks, character of 373 

Shurtleff, quoted 285 

Siliceous, definition of 525 

rocks 307 

sandstones 415 

Slate belts in Vermont 471 

Slate, colors of 465 

composition and structure of 464 

for roofing purposes 291 

for tombstones, use of 291 

quarries in United States, amount in- 
vested in 291 

quarrying and splitting of .- 318 

quarrying in United States, early 291 

sawing 319 

statistics of shipment from Slatingtou 

region in 1882 470 

table of sizes for roofing 465 

uses of 465 

Slates, Canada 488 

foreign 488 

Georgia 466 

Maine 466 

Maryland 466 

Massachusetts 466 

Michigan 467 

Minnesota 467 

New Ilampshire 468 

New Jersey 468 

New York 468 

Pennsylvania 469 

idaces of occurrence of 466 

South Carolina 470 

Texas 470 

Voriuoiit 470 

Virginia 471 

Sledge-hammers used in stone- working 330 



Page. 

Smith, Dr., tests of air quoted 336 

Soapstone, Arkansas 358 

composition and uses of . . . .' 357 

District of Columbia 358 

Massachusetts . 358 

New Hampshire 358 

New York 358 

North Carolina 358 

Pennsylvania 359 

of the various States and Territories .. 338 

South Carolina 359 

Texas 359 

Vermon t 359 

Virginia 360 

Soft soap and alum solution for jirotecting 

stone 355 

Solvent action of acids atfecting weather- 

ingof building stones 338 

South America, export of slate to 291 

specimens of building stone from 616 

South Carolina, granite in 425 

slates in , 470 

soap-stone in 359 

specimen of limestone from 592 

specimens of biotite granite from 592 

specimenof steatite (?) [soap-stone] from 592 

Spain and Portugal, building stones of 483 

Spain, specimen of calcareous tufa from . . . 629 

specimen of dolomite from 629 

specimen of sandstone from 629 

specimen of slate from 629 

specimens of calcareous breccia fmnr- 

blol from 628 

specimens of calcareous sandstone from . 629 

specimens of gypsum from 629 

specimens of limestone from. 028,629 

specimens of limestone f marble] from . . 628 

specimens of shell limestone from 629 

Spalls, definition of 525 

Specific gravity of granite 408 

of limestones 491 

of sandstone 492 

of serpentine 365 

of stones . 334 

of stones, table of 494 

Specular iron ore, characters of 201 

Spider-web, definition of 525 

Split rock, definition of 525 

Splitting-chisel used in stone- working 330 

Square drove finish 320 

Stalactite, description of 372 

Stalactitic marble, definition of 525 

Stalagmite, characters of 372 

Steatite, characters of 29S 

Stock, definition of 525 

Stone structures in the United States, list 

of the more important 515 

Stone-working, machines used in 320 

Stones of foreign countries 473 

Strata, definition of 525 

Stratified, definition of 525 

granites (gneiss) 441 

Streaked, definition of 525 

Strength of building stone 490 

Strike, definition of 625 



r,UILl)ING AND ORNAMENTAL STONES. 



647 



Pajie. 

Strike, joiuta in roiks 310 

Striking-liaiuEier used in slonc-wnrking ■ -- 330 

Structure of rocks 302 

Sullivan (liamoudpointed drill 312 

Sutherland Falls Marble Company 321 

Syenite, definition of 525 

localities of 430 

trachytes and phonolitcs 430 

Szerelmey's stone liqtiid for protecting 

stone 356 

T. 

Table showing specific gravitj' of stones of 

various kinds 494 

Tables showing the chemical composition 

of stones of various kinds 502 

Talc, characters of 298 

Tarbox, process of splitting stone intro- 
duced by 314 

Tennessee, granites in 424 

gypsum in 370 

limestones and dolomites in 405 

marbles in 383 

sandstones in 4G0 

specimen of uiorite (?) from 595 

specimen of granite from 595 

specimen of hornblende gneiss from . .. 595 

specimen of slate from. 595 

specimen of congkunerato from 595 

specimen of limestone from 594, 595 

specimen of limestone [marblej from. .592, 593 
specimen of magnesian limestone [mar- 
ble] from 593,594 

specimens of sandstone from 595 

Tests of building stone 489 

Texas, granites in 425 

limestones and dolomites in 405 

marbles in 385 

sandstones in 400 

slates in 470 

soap-stone in 359 

specimen of diorito from '596 

specimen of dolomite [marble] from 595 

specimen of ferruginous dolomite from . 59C 

specimens of biotito granite from 596 

specimens of dolomite from 595, 596 

specimens of limestone from ... 596 

specimens of limestone [marble] from.. 595 

specimens of magnesian limestone from 596 

specimens ef sandstone from 596 

Tomlinson, Philo, introduced gang-saw sys- 
tem 328 

Tools used in dressing giauito 3t5 

Tooth-chiseled finish 320 

Tooth-chisel used in st one- working 330 

Tot ten. Colonel, CAperiments by 332 

'J'ourraaline granite 408 

Tracliyte, definition of 525 

tuffs, characters of 403 

Trachytes, chemical composition of 431 

definition of 431 

specific gravity of 431 

Trap and greenstone rocks 439 

Trap, definition of 525 

Travertine, characti^rs of 372 



Page. 

Travertiu»», definition of 525 

Trimming slate, method of 315 

slate 318 

Tulfs, colors of 463 

composition of 463 

definition of 463 

localities of 463 

origin of 463 

uses of 404 

vai'ieties of 403 

Turgito 301 

Turkej', specimens of marble from 630 

U. 

Under drilling rocks 311 

Undcrhill, Isaac, opened first quarry in Dor- 
set 389 

Unstratiflcd, definition of 523 

Utah, granites in 425 

liparito in 430 

marbles in 386 

sandstone in 460 

specimen of dolomite from 596 

specimen of hornblende biotite granite 

from 596 

specimen of limestone [marble] from... 596 

sjiecimens of limestone from 590 

specimens of sandstone from 596, 597 

Utility of joints in rocks in quarrying 3i0 

V. 

Variation in durability of stones 305 

Varieties of dolomites 371 

of limestones 371 

Verde antique, definition of 525 

Verdantique marble, composition of 361 

origin of 361 

in foreign countries 473 

uses of 361 

Verdedi Geneva 369 

Levante occurring in Italy 474 

Prato occurring in Italy 474 

Vermont, granite in 425 

marble (piarries in 289 

marbles ii'. 386 

quarrying marble in 387 

serpentine in 368 

slates in 470 

soap-stone in 359 

specimens of biot ito granite from 603 

specimens of biotite mucovite granite 

from 603 

specimens of dolomite [marble] from. 602,603 

speciniensof limestone [marble] from. 597, 598, 
599, 000, 601, 002 
specimens of magnesian limestone 

from G02 

specimens of muscovito granite from. .. 603 

specimens of serpentine from 597 

specimens of slato from 003, 004, 605 

specimens of steatite [soap-stone] from . 597 

Vert do GCnes occurring in Italy 474 

Vesicular, definition of 521 

Vinalliaven. granile (jiiairies in 415 



648 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



Page. 

Virginia, diabase in 436 

granites in 426 

gypsum in 370 

marbles in 391 

sandstones in 461 

slates in 471 

soap-stouo in 360 

specimen of amphibolite from 606 

specimen of biotite schist from 606 

specimen of calcareons dolomite [mar- 
ble] from 605 

spt-cimen of dolomite [marblej from 605 

specimen of muscovite granite from 606 

specimens of biotite granite from 606 

specimens of biotite gneiss from 606 

specimens of diabase from 606 

specimens of gy psnm from 605 

specimens of limestone [marble] from.. 605 
specimens of magnesian limestone [mar- 
ble] from 605 

specimens of sandstone from ^ 606 

specimens of slate from 606 

specimens of stalagmite marble from . . . 605 

specimens of steatite [soap-stone] from. 605 

Viridite, description of 299 

Vitreous, definition of 525 

Vitreons roclia 302 

Volcanic fragmental rocks 463 



W. 



W;i(ls\vortb, Dr., on induration of sand- 
stone 339 

Wardwell channeling machine 312 

Wardwell, George J"., invented channclLng 

niach ine 321 

Waverly group of rocks in Ohio 456 



Page. 

Washington Territory, sandstones in 461 

specimens of sandstones from 607 

Weathering of building stones 331 

Weathering properties of stones 340 

Wedges in splitting stone, use of 314 

Wedge used in stone-working describe*!. . . 330 

West Indies, export of slate to 291 

West Virginia, sandstones in 4G2 

specimen of limestone [marble] from... 606 
specimen of magnesian limestone [n.ar- 

ble] from .' 606 

specimens of sandstone from 606, 607 

White crystalline limestone, structure of. . . 304 

statuary marble, Italy 480 

or block marble, Italy 480 

Williamsite, Pennsylvania 308 

Winchell, Professor, on Trenton limestone 

in Minnesota 401 

on ■weathering of Trenton limestone 313 

Wisconsin, granites in 426 

limestones and dolomites in 406 

porphyry in 428 

sandstones in 461 

specimen of biotite gneiss from 608 

specimen of hornblende granite from . . . 608 

specimens of dolomite from 607, 008 

specimens of granite from 008 

specimens of quartzite from 009 

specimens of (juartz porphyjy from 608 

specimens of sandstone from 608, 009 

Wyoming, granites in 425 

specimen of hornblende granite from .. 609 

specimens of granite from 609 

T. 

Yellow marbles, Italy 481 

or Siena marble, Italy 4bl 



LIST OF SPECIMENS OF TEXTILE FIBERS AND FABRICS IN THE REF- 
ERENCE SERIES OF THE SECTION OF TEXTILE INDUSTRIES OF 
THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, JUNE 30, 1886. 



By IloMYN Hitchcock:. 



7011. 

7008. 
7009. 
7010. 
7112. 

GS81. 

C998. 

70'27. 
Ifj^lW. 

5327. 
7842. 
G970. 
21070. 
5335. 
7977. 
7940. 
7115. 

745G. 

7154. 

7502. 
7022. 
5133. 
5338. 
7972. 
7H19. 
7820. 
7821. 
75()0. 
73:50. 
5315. 



AhniUon avlcoina', Missouri. 

AbiiiiJon Bedfordianiim, Austnili.a. 

Ahiiiilon mollis, Australia. 

Ahiitilon oxi/carpum, Australia. 

Ace7' cratocgifolium, Urina no 
kawa. 

Acrocomia sclcrocarpa, Coco dc ca- 
tarrLo, Brazil. 

Adam's Needle, Yucca aloifoluj, 
Australia. 

African liemp. 

Agave sp. Costa Rica Indians, Dis- 
trict of Talamanca. 

> Agave Americana. 

Agave Americana, Nicaragua. 
Agave deserti, Southern California. 

> Agave Jceratto, Jamaica, 

Agave lechuguilla, Mexico. 

Also, Urtica Thunhcrgiana. 
f Algodon sylvestris (down), Yug- 
/ Iian, Argentine Eepublic. 
' Aloe, American. {Sea Agave.) 

Alpaca ■wool. 

Ampelodesma tenax, Diss, Genoa. 

Ananassa saliva, pineapple. 

Ananasna saliva, pineapple, China. 
-f^Ananassa saliva, pineapple, Ja- 
) niaica. 

f Angora wool, Argentine Repub- 
S lie. 

Angora wool (fabric), Kentucky. 
Angora wool, Maryland. 
Anono Colorado (bark), Saii I'raii- 
cisco. 



7025. 
7024. 
7078. 
7001. 
7003. 

7338. 
G999. 
G5G0. 

7000. 

7002. 
7487. 
G875. 
G873. 
75G.5, 

7015. 
701G. 
.5341. 
7974. 
7337. 
5021. 

5001. 
5188. 




AnlhcrccvmyliKa (cocoons), Tusser 
silk, India. 

Apocgnum sp. (fiberj, Minnesota. 

Apocgnum sp. (rope), Utah. 

Arum peniculaceum. 

Asdcpias (fiber), United States. 

Asclcpias (fiber), Cipo lactecente, 
Brazil. 

Asclcpias (fiber) milkweed, Iowa. 

Asclepias (down), Tripoli. 

Asclcpias (down), vegetable silk, 
India. 

Asclcpias (stalk and fiber). United 
States. 

Asclcpias and cotton (fabric). 

Asclcpias cornuti. New Jersey, 
) Aslrooaryum, vulgare, tucum, Bra- 
) zil. 

Bagasse, sugar cano, New Or- 
leans. 

M'anaua, Musa sapicniiun. 

> Banana, Musa sapicntum, ^iimaXca. 

Banana and silk (fabric). 

Bark, used for cords, Pai Ute In- 
dians. 

Bark used for ropes, San Domingo, 

Bclula Bhojpaltra (bark), East In- 
dies, 



Ba:hmcria vivca, China grass. 



Ba'limeria vivra, France, 



649 



ono 

7'J7L). 
7U81. 
7080. 
7093. 
709;-.. 
7639. 
7096. 

7990. 

5263. 
6864. 

7457. 

7007. 

7976. 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1880. 



;37. ) 

70. 5 



5337. 
7970. 
5015. 
7020. 
5340. 

5339. 
7975. 
7625. 

7980. 

7579. 

7824. 
7825. 

7826. 
7827. . 

7156. 
8053. 
7567. 

7285. 

5325. 

7290. 
7291. 

7292. 

5036. 
7981. 

7499. 
7813. 
7407. 
5345. 



Ilcehmei'ia nivea, Jamaica. 
Bwhmeria nivca, Mexico. 
Bwhmeria nivea, Mississippi. 

>Bcchmeria nivea, Philadelphia. 

Bodhmeria nivca (fabrics), France. 

Bcehmeria nivea with wool, cot- 
ton, etc. (fabrics). 

Bombax ceiha (bark), flor ceiba, 
Venezuela. 

i?07n?;ax cei&ajpochote.Guatemala. 

Bombax glohosa, paina de coco, 
Brazil. 

Bomhax peiidandrum, pohate, Yu- 
catan. 

Bottle tree, Slercidia riipestris, 
Australia. 

Bowstring hemp, Sanseviera zeij- 
lanlca, Jamaica. 

Bowstring hemp, African, Sa)ise- 
viera guineensls, Jamaica. 

Bromelia sp., District of Canara. 

Bromdia sp., Southern Florida. 

Bromelia karatas, silk grass, Ja- 
maica. 

Bromelia inncjuin, piuguin, Ja- 
maica. 

Bulrush, great, Scirpns vaJidits, 
Arizona. 

Burn-nose bark, Dajihnojysis tiui- 
folia, Jamaica. 

Cactus fiber, Argentine Republic. 



Calf hair, Germanr 

Camel's hair. 

Camel's hair, Russia, 

Canna plant. New Orleans. 

Cannahis sativa, hemp, Vrgentino 
Republic. 

Cannahis saliva (seed), hemp, Per- 
sia. 

Cannabis sativa, hemp, Portugal. 

Cannabis saliva, hemp, second 
class, Portugal. 

Cannahis sativa, hemp, third 
class, Portugal. 

Cannabis sativa, hemp, Spain. 

Carludovica pliimieri, low pal- 
metto, Jamaica. 

Carijota urens, kittool, Ceylon. 

Cashmere wool, Alabama. 

Cashmere wool, California. 

Cecropia pellata (bark), trninpct- 
troe, Jamaica. 



23350. 

88732. 

7589. 
6869. 

7269. 

7988. 

7616. 

7003. 

7978. 

6881. 

7570. 

7570. 

7570. 

7138. 

7120.- 

7121. 

7128. 

6976. 

7122. 

7488. 

7111. 
7034. 
7136. 

7037. 

7039. 

7030. 
7131. 
7497. 
7263. 

7288. 

7588. 
7408. 
7409. 
7410. 
7590. 
7402. 
7542. 
7552. 
6899. 
7960. 
7533. 
57490. 
7002. 



Cedar bark (dressed), Neah Bay, 
Wasfhington Territory, 

Cedar root splints, Massett In- 
dians, British Columbia. 

Cliamarops excelsa, China. 

Chorisia speciosa, paina Inaiicr^, 

Brazil. 

China grass. (See Baihmeiia ) 

Cibotium sp., pulu, Sandwich Isl- 
ands. 

Cibucaia de buchivacoa, Venezu- 
ela. 

Cipo. (See Sipo.) 

Cipo lacteceute, Jsc7t^)«s, Brazil. 

Cladiam occidentale, rush or tlag 
grass, Jamaica. 

Coco de catarrho, Acrocomia scJe- 
rocarpa, Brazil. 

Cocoa-nut, Coeos nuciftra. 

Cocas micifera, cocoa-nut. 

Coir. (See Cocoa nut.) 

Corcliorus sp., lute, France. 

'> Corcliorus sp., jute, Louisiana. 

I 

Corcliorus sp., jute, Virginia. 

Cor chorus sp., jire pared jute and 
paper pulp, New Jersey. 

Corcliorus capsularis. 

Corcliorus capsularis, jnto, Asia. 

Corcliorus cajjsulai'is, jute, Mary- 
land. 

Corcliorus cajysularis, jute. New 
Orleans. 

Corcliorus capsularis, jute. South- 
western United States. 

Corcliorus oUtorius, Australia. 

Cordia jerascanlhus. 

Cordia grandis (bark), Cuddai)ah. 

Cordi/line indivisa, tall palm lily, 
Australia. 

Cordijline pumilio, dwarf palm 
lily. New Zealand. 

Corn liber (paper), Austria. 

^Cosmos (fibers and fabrics). 

I 
J 

Cotton bolls. 

Cotton, Iliwaiian Islands. 

Cotton, San Paulo. 

Cotton, Madagascar. 

Cotton, Mexico. 

Cotton tree. 

Cotton, yellow, China. 

Cotton and asclepias (fabric). 



TEXTILE FIBERS AND FABRICS 



651 



7642. 
7332. 
7312. 

75G8. 
7564. 
5028. 

50; 4. 

5343. 
6760. 
7973. 
7506. 

7267. 
7930. 

7504. 

7494. 

7502. 
7286. 



7288. 

7954. 

6884. 
7261. 

6865. 
6872. 

7287. 

7042. 

7496. 
7004. 

7293. 
6937. 



6934. 
6935. 

7574, 
7283. 
5140, 
7998. 
7999, 
6939, 



Cotton cloth (red), Malta. 

Cotton, tlas, anil wool (fabric). 

Cotton, wool, auii ramie (fabric). 

Cotton stalk (bark and fiber). 

Cotton stalk (fiber), New Orleans. 

Cotton yarns (colored with My- 
sore dyes), India. 

Cypress, swamp (inner bark), 
Quapaw Indians. 

^Dagger plant, Yucca aloifolia, Ja- 
( maica. 

Daphne canuahina, Kanioou (pa- 
per). 

Daphne tcnuifolia. 

Daphnopsis tinifolia, burn-nose 
bark, Jamaica. 

Debregeasia longifolia, Wild Rhea, 
India. 

Dipierocarpus tahcrcidatus, Bur- 
niah. 

Diss, Ampclodesmatenax, Genoa. 

Doryanthus cxccJsa, Spear Lily, 
Australia. 

Down. (See Ahjodon sijlvcsiris, 
Asclepias, Bomiax, Pain a, Popti- 
lus, Ochroma lagopus, etc.) 

Dwarf Palm Lily, Cordtjline pum- 
ilio, New Zealand. 

Echinocactus horizonthahnum, wild 
silk, Mexico. 

Embirania Xylopia scricea, Brazil. 

Epeiva socialis, silk spun by spi- 
ders, Argentine Republic. 

) Erlodcndron sp. Paiua loura, Bra- 

S zil. 

Eucahjplmt ohiiqua, stringy bark, 
Australia. 

Fibers (unknown), Swan River, 

United States of Colombia. 
Ficus tsicla, India. 
Flame tree, SlercuUa acerifo'ia, 
Australia. 

Flax, Linumusiiatknimum, Brazil. 
Flax, Linum usiiaiissimuvi, sixty- 
two fepeciniens from various 
countries. 
Flax, cottonized (unbleached). 
Flax, cottonized (bleached). 
Flax (dressed). 
Flax, Irish (water- retted). 
Flax, Linum usitatissiviiun, Spain. 

( Flax, Linum usiiatissimmn, Russia. 

Flax, New Zealand, J'hormimn 
tenax. New Zealand. 



r332. Flax, wool, and cotton (fabric). 

r906. Flax fabric (ancient). 

r990. Flor ceiba (bark) Bombax cciba, 

Venezuela. 
rO'l. Furcraa Cubenbis, Ileneiinen or 

silk grass, Jamaica. 
J047. Furcrcva gigantea, Madras. 
7026. Eurcrwa giganiea, Mexican hemp, 

Australia. 
7130. Gazona ulmifolia. 

'^■*^^- \ Goat hair, China. 
7496. i 

7564. ) Gossypium sp. (stalk and fiber), 

7568. > New Orleans. 

5207. Grass (whisk broom), Florence. 

7153. Guanaco wool. 

G860. ^ 

3861. >Guaxima, Urena lobata, Brazil. 

5862. ) 

5863. Guaxima (seeds), Urena lobata, 

Brazil. 
Hair, camel. 
Hair, camel, Russia. 

i'Hair, goat, China. 

Helictercs jamaicenm. 
Hemp. (See Cannabis saliva.) 
Hemp, African. 
>Hemp, African bowstring, San- 
\ seviera guineensis, Januiica. 
Hemp,bowstring,5rtr).sc?M'crarei//rt- 

nica, Jamaica. 
Hemp. Mexican, Ftircra'a giganiea 
Australia. 
)Hemp, Queensland, Sida retusa, 
I Australia. 
Hemp, Victorian, Plagianihus pul- 

chellus, Australia. 
Hemp, coarso,5Wa/i7(a/o/t", King- 
ma, China. 
Hemp bark. Pan, Siani. 

Sllemp cloth, Madagascar. 

Ilenequen, Mexico. 

Henequen or silk grass, Enrrra'a 

cubensis, Jamaica. 
Hibiscus sp. 
mbiscus esculentiis. 
Hibiscus esculentus, Maiyland. 
Hibiscus esculenfus, Jilississippi. 
Hibiscus latifolia. 
Hibiscus moscheutos, American 

jute. United States. 
Hibiscus moncheutos, Ohio. 
Hibiscus sabdariffa. 
Hibiscus sinensis. 



7156. 

8053. 
57495. 
57496. 

7109. 

7027. 
5337. 
7970. 
7976. 

7026. 

7028. 
7031. 

7289. 

5127. 

5016. 
7072. 
7679. 
7850. 
7971. 

6979. 
6987. 
6981. 
6980. 
6982. 
7035. 

7284. 

I 6978. 
I 6977. 



652 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



7119. 
5211. 
7495. 
12261. 
7934. 
7872. 

7034. 
7036. 

7037. 

7039. 

7030. 

7035. 

7489. 
7506. 

7117. 

7111. 

7116. 

5335. 

7977. ^ 

5127. 

7499. 
7076. 
7077. 
7507. 
7295. 

7872. 

7873. 
7874. 
7264. 

7288. 

7263. 

728G. 

7152. 



Hibiscus syriacus, Maknki. 

Hihisus tiliaceus, China. 

Holoptelia integrifolia, Madras. 

Indian fabi'ics, Ohio. 

Istle (ixtle) (fiber and coraline). 

Istle de leclingnilla, Mexico. 

Jute. (See Co)-c/(orH5 sp.) 

Jute, Corchorus capsidaris, Asia. 

Jute, Corchorus capstilaris, Mary- 
land. 

Jute, Corchorus capsnlaris, New 
Orleans. 

Jute, Corchorus capsularis, sontli- 
western United States. 

Jute, Corchorus oUtorius, Aus- 
tralia. 

Jute, American, IJihiseus moscheu- 
to8, United States. 

Jute and paper pulp. 

Kamoon (paper). Daphne canna- 
Inna. 

Kanabikio. 

Kanabikio, Corchorus capsularis. 

Kara musUi, Bahnicria vivea. 



Keratto, Agare Iceratto, Jamaica. 

King-ma (coarse hemp), Slda ti- 

liaafolia, China. 
Kittool, Caryoia urcns, Ceylon. 
Kleinhovia hospUa. 
Kydia cahjcina. 
Kydia cahjcina, Australia. 
Laportea gUjas, Trec-ncttle, Aus- 
tralia. 
Lechiiguilla (ixtle or istle), Mex- 
ico. 
Lcchugnilla yunguillo, Mexico. 
Lechuguilla zarcia, Mexico. 
Lepedospcrmum fiexuosum, sword- 
rush, Australia. 
Lily, dwarf palm, Cordyllne pu- 

milio, New Zealand. 
Lily, tall palm, CordyVinc indivisa, 

Australia. 
Lily, spear, Doryanihus cxcelsa, 

Australia. 
Lana do Lina (wool), cross be- 
tween sheep and goat, Argen- 
tine Republic. 
7612. Linho, Brazil. 
7293. Linum usitatissimum. (See Flax.) 
7266. Lyonsia reticulata, Australia. . 
7141. Maize (husk, yarn, and cloth)- 
5177. Majaguillo bark, Venezuela. 
7119. Maknki, Z2«Z)isc«s syriacus. 
7017. Manilla hemp, Musa terfiHs. 



7044. 

107534. 
7338. 
7118. 

7586. 
8054. 
7013. 
7014. 

7023. 

7012. 

7015. 
7016. 
5341. 
7974. 
7017. 
7295. 

7453. 

7043. 

6869. 

C864. 



6865 

6872, 
6880, 



65. i 
72. \ 



7288. 
7263. 
7573. 

7981. 

5332. 
5016. 
7503. 
6939. 

7975. 
7270. 
7018. 



Mauritiaflexuosa, Uta palm, Dum- 
erara. 

Mescal fiber, Arizona. 

Milkweed, Asclepias, Iowa. 

Mitsumata, Wislcstroemia Japon- 
ica. 

Mohair (combed). 

Mummy cloth. 

Musa paradisiaca, plantain. 

Musa paradisiaca, plantain 
hemp, Australia. 

Musa paradisiaca, plantain, Brit- 
ish Guiana. 

Musa paradisiaca, plantain, 
Demerara. 

>Musa sapientum, banana. 

"t Musa sapientum, banana, Jamai- 
S ca. 

Musa tcxtilis, manilla hemp. 

Nettle-tree, Laportea gigas, Aus- 
tralia. 

Ochroma lagopus (down), Vene- 
zuela. 

Ochroma lagopus (bark), West 
Indies. 

Paina branca, Chorisia spcciosa, 
Brazil. 

Paina de coco, Bomhux gJohosa, 
Brazil. 

Paina lonra, Eriodcndron sp., 
Brazil. 

Paina loura (seeds), Eriodcndron 
sp., Brazil. 

Palm Lily, dwarf, Cordyline jin- 
jnt7io,New Zealand. 

Palm Lily, tall, Cordyline indi- 
rnsa, Australia. 

Palmetto, Sabal palmetto, Geor- 
gia. 

Palmetto, low, Carludovica plu- 
mieri, Jamaica. 

Papelillo fiber, San Salvador. 

Pan, hemp bark, Siam. 

I'h wnixpedun cm la ta, Ma d ras . 

rhorium tenax. New Zealand 
flax, New Zealand. 

Pine-apple. (See Ananassa and 
BromcUa. ) 

Pinguin, Bromclia ])inguin, Ja- 
maica. 

rinus sylvcslns (fabric fiom 
leaves), France. 

Pita (flossed), Honduras. 

Plantain. (Sise Musa paradi- 
siaca. ) 



TKXTILI-: FIBERS AND FAI5K1CS. 



G53 



iViG:]. Pocliote, llomhax ceiba, Guato- 

mala. 
7457. Pobate, Homhax pcndandrnm, Yu- 
catan. 
7411. Populus alba, (down), Washing- 
ton, D. C. 
707D. Pathos violacetis. 
7263. Pterocarpm santatintis. 
7505. Pueraria Thunbcnj'iana (woven 

fabric), Corca. 
7269. Pnln, Cibotium, sj»., Sandwich 

Islands. 
7G30. Ramie, P>i£hmeria nicca, France. 
7970. Ramie, Bwhmcria nlvca, Jamaica. 
7031. Ramie, Bcchmeria nivca, Mexico. 
7080. Ramie (second cutting), Boch- 
mcria itlvea, Mississippi. 
7093. ^ Ramie, liahmcria ulrea, Phihidel- 
7095. ^ phi a. 
7084. Ramie (from dresser), Bithmeria 

nivea. 
7Go9. Ramie (fabrics), B<r]iin€ria nlvca, 

France. 
7631. > Ramie (sliver and uoWs), Bivhme- 
76.32. 5 I'ic nivea, France. 

"Ort'T ?Kamio(tow), Bfchmeria nivea. 

7310. Ramie, with wool, cotton, etc. 
(fabrics). 

7099. Bapliia rufia (yarn), Madagascar. 

7566. Reed of the Nile. 

7504. Rhea, wihl. Dabregeasia longifolia, 
India. 
liofia. (See liajMa.) 

7673. Rofia palm (fabrics), Madagascar. 

7978. Rusli or flag grass, Cladium occidcn- 
iale, Jamaica. 

726 1. Rush, sword, Lepidospcrmumjlcxito- 
sum, Australia. 

7573. Sabal iialmelto, palmetto, Geor- 
gia. 

7.508. Saccltarum vin»ja. 

5236. Sacchanim sp., sugar cane, Ha- 
v.aii. 

5337. ? Sansevicra ijuineensis, African bow- 

7970. I string hemp, Jamaica. 

7976. Sanseviera zeylanica, bowstring 
hemp, Jamaica. 

7509. Sarcoccpltalia cadamba, Burniah. 

7625. Scirjms validus, great bulrush, 
Arizona. 

7511. Scirpus validus, tulo or tntle, pa- 
per pulp, Idaho. 
7114. Shiua, Tilia cordnta, var. Hiro- 
shima. 

7113. Shina, Ti/iacorf?a/«,var. Japonica. 



7033. 
7032. 
7028 
7031 



7580. 
6915. 



7068. 

7098. 

75.7J. 

70G7. 

7262. 

93G06. 

8061 . 
8062. 
7258. 
6913. 
7583. 
7046. 
7581. 
7260. 
7899. 
7900. 
7954. 

726 1. 

74.55. 
534J. 

7257. 
7337. 
7616. 
5302. 

7236. 

7294. 

6892. i 

6893. ! 
6996. 
7004. 

7493. 
7006. 
7007. 



Sida Jamaiccnsis. 

Sida mollis. 
) Sida relnsa, Queensland hemp, 
\ Australia. 

Sida tilicefolia, coarse hemp, King- 
ma, China. 

Silk (cocoons), Argentine Repub- 
lic. 

Silk (cocoons), Chili. 

Silk (cocoons), Japan, 

Silk tusser (cocoons), Anlhcra-a 
mylilta, India. 

Silk (wild cocoons), Argentine 
Republic. 

Silk (wild cocoons), Madagas- 
car. 

Silk, Bengal. 

Silk, Japan. 

Silk, raw, .Japan. 

Silk, raw, from Yama Mai co- 
coons, Japan. 

> Silk, Taw, and cocoons, Mexico. 

Silk, raw, North Carolina. 

Silk, reeled, Bomhijx pcrniji, China. 

Silk, reeled, Massachusetts. 

Silk, reeled, Japan. 

Silk, reeled, Kansas. 

Silk (from wild cocoons), .Japan. 

> Silk, wild, Mexico. 

Silk, wild, Echinocaclas horizon- 
Ihalmum, Mexico. 

Silk spun by spiders, Epeira soa- 
ialis, Argentine Republic. 

Silk cotton. 

Silk grass, Bromelia karatas,Jim\- 
aica. 

Silk gut, Japan. 

Silk and banan.i (fabrics). 

Sipo, Brazil. 

Spanish bayonet (leaves), Yucca 
alala. 
SixiarLily, Doryanlhus excelsa, Aus- 
tralia. 

Sporobolus vrijplandrus, New Mex- 
ico. 
Sjiruco root (ropii), Washington 

Territory. 
Slercnlia, Australia. 
<S/crcHitrtacer(/o?Ja, Flame-tree, Aus- 
tralia. 

Stcrculia ornata, Burmali. 

Slercnlia sp., Australia. 

Slerculia rnpcstris, Bottlo-treo, 
Australia. 



G54 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



7287. 

7565. 
5236. 

726-1. 

72(i'3. 

7584. 
5179. 
7113. 
7114. 

6891. 
7265. 

7989. 

7533. 
7295. 

7498. 

7108. 
5345. 

6)^73. 

6875. 
7511. 



6860. 
6861. 
6862. 
6863. 

6993. 
6994. 
6995. 
7112. 




Stingy bark, Eucalyptus oMiqua, 
Australia. 

Sugar-caue,baga8se,Now Orleans. 

Sugar-cane, Saeeharum sp., Ha- 
waii. 

Sword-rush, L'qndospermum flex- 
uosum, Australia. 

Tall Palm Lily, Cordyline indivisa, 
Australia. 

Tapestry, Persian. 

Tea "Weed, Mississippi. 

Tiliacordala, var. Jaj)o«ica,Shina. 

T'dia cordata, var. Hiroshima, 
Shina. 

Tillandsia usneoides, Brazil. 

Tillandsia usneoides, Soutli Caro- 
lina. 

Tlpiiapa de Buchivaca, Vene- 
zuela. 

Tree, cotton. 

Tree, nettle, Laportea (jigas, Aus- 
tralia. 

Tritlcum vulgare, var. astivuin, 
Italy. 

Triamfelta semitriloia. 

Trumpet tree (bark), Cecropia 
peltata, Jamaica. 
} Tucnni, Asfrocaryum vulgare, Bra- 
l zil. 

Tnle or tutle (paper pulp), Scirpua 
validtis, Idaho. 

Tiisscr silk (cocoons), Antlierwa 
mylitta. 

> Urcna lohata, Guaxima, Brazil. 

Urena lohata (seeds) Guaxima, 
Brazil. 

> Urena lohaia, Brazil. 

Urena sinuata, 

Urena no kawa, Acer cratoegi- 

foliiim. 
Urtica Thunhergiana, Aiso. 
Vegetable silk, Asclepias, India. 

Vicunia wool, South America. 

Vine and fiber (unidentified), 
India. 



7118. Wiskstrocma Japonica, Mitsumata. 

7409. Wool. (See Cosmos). 

7828. Wool. 

7309. Wool (samples), Vermont. 

7154. Wool, alpaca. 

7918 i 

"Hon (Wool, Angora, Argentine Repub- 

7821. ) ^'^• 

7330. Wool, Angora, Maryland. 

7245. Wool, black, Cordova. 

7251. Wool, black yuli, Smyrna. 

7813. Wool, cashmere, Alabama. 

7407. Wool, cashmere, California. 

7203. Wool, Donskoi, Russia. 

7153. Wool, guanaco. 

7406. Wool, kid's. 

7152. Wool, lina, cross of sheep and 
goat, Argentine Republic. 

5347. Wool, mountain goat, Russian 
America. 

7404. Wool, Rocky Mountain goat, In- 
dian Territory. 
Wool, Sardinian. 

Wool, vicunia, South America. 

Wools, various American (sam- 
ples). 

7312. Wool, cotton, and ramie (fabric). 

7332. Wool, cotton, and flax (fabric). 
New Mexico. 

7569. Xylopia sp., Brazil. 

6884. X^/Zopm 8«'icea,Embirama, Brazil. 

7044. Utapalm, Mauritia flexnosajDem- 
erara. 

7403. Tucca (fabric and cord), Mexico. 

5302. Yucca alata (leaves), Spanish bay- 
onet. 

6998. Yucca aloifolia, Adam's needle, 
Australia. 

Yucca aloifolia, Dagger plant, Ja- 
maica. 

Yucca iaccaia (coarse). Southern 
California. 
21066. Yucca laccata (fine), Southern 
California. 
6997. Yucca haccata, California. 
7456. Yughan, Alogodou sylvestris. 
7969. Yuguilla Venezuela. 





TEXTILE FIBEKS AND FABRICS. 655 

The ultimate object of the collection represented by the foiegoiug 
list is to afford a series of type specimens of textile fibers, to be used in 
microscopical examinations, comparisons, etc. It will be seen that the 
list already embraces a large number of valuable types for thispurpose. 
Mingled with these, however, purely for the temporary convenience of 
the curator, there are, at present, a number of specimens, representing 
much larger ones in the reserve and exhibition series, which have not 
been accurately determined and are awaiting further study. Hence in 
some cases only common or vernacular names are given in the list, the 
botanical names not being known. 

In all cases the numbers in the margin are the regular Museum 
register numbers of the same fibers in the reserve or exhibition series. 



PREPAR\TION OF MICROSCOPICAL MOUNTS OF VEGETABLE TEXTILE 

FIBERS. 



By ItOMYN UlTCHCOCK. 



The method of mouutiug vegetable textile fibers here described has 
been adopted in the National Museum with perfect success. The per- 
manent preparations leave nothing to be desired, for they clearly reveal 
the minute structure of the fibers, and their appearance does not change 
with time. Possibly the coarser fibers, after a few months, become 
rather more transparent than at first, but this change is so slight that 
it is of no consequence. Moreover, the process is simple, rapid and sure, 
even in the hands of a novice. In evidence of this statement it may be 
said, that Mr. H. English, a young man who had never made a micro- 
scopical mount before, in the summer of 1884 made one hundred and 
seventeen preparations of fibres in fluid mounts, from jmnted instruc- 
tions, precisely as described below, having seen the operations performed 
two or three times by an experienced mounter, yet not one of bis prep- 
arations has shown an imperfection up to the present time.* 

The method is as follows: The fibers are cleaned, disintegrated, and 
prepared precisely as for microscopical investigatiou, the object being 
to make the mounted specimens resemble in every respect the freshly 
prepared fibers. The specimens for mounting are selected to show the 
variations in the size of the fibers, and the form of their ends. They 
are then placed in the mounting medium. This may be water without 
any addition, which is the medium most generally appropriate, or a 
mixture of water and glycerine in equal parts, which is to bo recom- 
mended for the coarser and more opaque varieties. 

The glass slips are prepared in advance by running upon them a thin 
ring of clear shellac in alcohol just large enough to receive the cover- 
glass. This is done on a turn-table, in the usual way. When this ring 
is thoroughly dry the mounting may be proceeded with. First put the 
slide again on the turn-table and run a fresh coat of shellac over the 
ring. Then, immediately or after a couple of minutes, put a large drop 
of the mounting fluid into the cell, transfer to it the specimen selected 

*A11 of Mr. English's preparations are still per lect in 1889 ; five years after they 
were made, 

U. Mis 170, pt. 2 42 657 



658 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSI<:UM, 1886. 

for mouutiug, which must be already permeated with the Ikiid, ai)ply 
the cover-glass and press out the superfluous fluid. Press down the 
cover until the edge comes in contact all around with the fresh shellac, 
absorbing the liquid that is forced out with blotting-paper. The slide 
may then be set aside for a few moments, when the cover will be 
well fixed and the moisture outside will be dried off, or, in case the 
mounting medium contained glycerine, the slide should be well washed 
with a stream of water from a wash-bottle. A fresh ring of shellac is 
then applied to secure the cover-glass and prevent any possible defect 
in the sealing. The preparation will now keep indefinitely if it is set 
aside and not handled roughly. 

To insure permanent preservation a mixture of equal parts of gold- 
size and asphalt varnish or Brunswick black is ai)plied over the shel- 
lac. One or more coats of this very durable and elastic varnish will 
protect the more brittle shellac and give a good finish to the mounts. 

A more elegant finish is finally applied, consisting of a single coat of 
Brunswick black alone. 

Finally, the slide is labeled, and the number on the label is the 
number of the original specimen in the Museum register. 



HOW TO COLLECT MAMMAL SKINS FOR PURPOSES OF STUDY AND 

FOR MOUNTING.* 



By \\'iLLiAM T. ilouNADAY, Chief Taxidermist^ U. S. National Mu- 
seum. 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES. 

It is ii simple matter to prepare the skin of an ordinary quadrupetl, 
provided the operator is uot afraid of getting a little blood on his hands, 
and is not naturally indisposed to physical exertion. A few minutes- 
work suffices for the skin of a small mammal, and a few hours for a 
large one, up to the size of a buftalo. With a sharp knife, detailed in- 
structions, some cheap preservatives, and a little patient labor, the 
thing is done. One specimen properly prepared 'in the field is worth 
ten that have been slighted. 

The great principle which is the foundation of all valuable field work 
on mammal skins is this : A skin must be taken off, cleaned ofjlcsh, and 
preserved so that the preservative poicder or fluid can act directly iipoii the 
roots of the hair from the inner side of the skin, and over every portion of 
its surface. Neither alum, nor salt, nor alcohol (unless it be of great 
strength) can strike through a thick layer of flesh and i)enetrate through 
the skin to the epidermis quickly enough to save it from decomposition. 
The epidermis of most animals is of such a close and oily nature that 
preservatives can not strike through it from without, and therefore when 
a skin is removed, it must be cleaned of flesh and fat, so that the pre- 
servative liquid or dry powder can cojne immediately in contact with 
the cutis. 

SELECTION OF SPECIMENS. 

When specimens are sufficiently numerous to allow of a choice of in- 
dividuals for preservation, select first the finest, largest, and most i)er- 
fect old male and female. Young animals of every kind are very de- 
sirable, and specimens should be taken whenever possible. Of animals 
that are known, or even supposed, to be rare, i)reserve the first speci- 

* A portion of this article— tbut relatin<j to tho preservation of skins for mount- 
ing— has already been publisliecl in the Proceedinrjs of the Xational Museum for 188:5, 
under the title, ''Brief Directions for Removing and Preserving tho Skins of Mam- 
mals." The appearance of this circular is in response to a demand for detailed in- 
structions for tho preparation of skiu3.in a dry state for tho purposes of study. 

G59 



660 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

iiieu obtained, be it youug or old, good or indifferent, for fear anotlier 
of the same species may not be obtained. 

NOTES AND MEASUREMENTS. 

The value of a specimen is greatly enhanced by a record of the fol 
lowing: (1) Length of head and body; (2) length of tail; (3) length 
of hind foot (with claw) ; (4) height of ear (from behind) ; (5) height at 
shoulders (if the animal be a large one) and girth; (G) color of eyes; 
and (7) color of other soft jiarts of the head, feet, and body which are in 
any way worthy of notice. Sketches and i^hotographs of animals in the 
flesh, either dead or alive, are always highly prized by zoologists and 
taxidermists, to whom they are of the utmost importance and value. 

KNIVES AND MATERIALS. 

For skinning small quadrupeds, a sharp pocket-knife is sufficient, 
except for i^ersons who make a business of collecting ; and for larger 
animals small butcher or hunting knives are amply sufficient. Alcohol 
in copper cans with large screw-tops is supplied by the Institution by 
special arrangement, but salt and alum, with Avhich to make a good 
preservative solution, can be procured anywhere within the pale of civ- 
ilization, and also kegs or barrels to put them in. Any one who really 
wishes to preserve the skin of an animal need never be thwarted by an 
apparent lack of implements and preservatives. 

SKINNING SMALL QUADRUPEDS (VARYING IN SIZE FROM A MOUSE 

TO A MASTIFF). 

Lay the animal flat uj^on its back, and, beginning at the throat, make 
a straight, clean cut in the skin along the middle of the neck, breast, 
and abdomen, quite to the base of the tail. Except in very small ani- 
mals, 'the tail also must be slit open along the under side from about 
one inch above the root quite to the tip. In the case of small mammals, 
the skins of which are to be preserved dry, the bone of the tail may be 
extracted by wrapping the latter with cloth and pounding lightly upon 
it with a mallet. 

The bottom of the foot must be slit open lengthwise from the base of 
the middle toe to the heel. All the opening cuts are now made. Begin 
at the middle of the abdomen and cut the skin neatly from the body, 
leaving no flesh, or at least very little, adhering to it. We come very 
soon to where the fore-leg joins the body at the shoulder and the hind 
leg at the hip. Cut through the muscles at those points, disjoint the 
legs and detach them entirely from the body. 

Skin each leg by turning the skin wrong side out over the foot, quite 
down to the toes. When this has been done cut the flesh away from 
the bones of the leg and foot, but be careful to leave the bones attached 
to each other by their ligaments, and to the skin itself at the toes. 
^ever throw away the leg-hones of an animal if the shin is to he mounted, 



MAMMAL SKINS FOR STUDY AND MOUNTING. 



GGl 



but leave tlieni attaclied to the .skin as shown by the left leg of the 
acconn)anyiiig figuic* 




y&iV&VjJTyft 



Fig. 1. — SiiiiiriL'l partly skinned. 

Detach the skin from the back, shoulders, and neck, and when you 
come to the ears cut them off close to .the head. Turn the skin wrong 
side out over the head and proceed until you come to the eyes. !N"ow 
work slowly with the knife, keeping close to the edge of the bony orbit, 
until you can see, through a thin membrane under your knife-edge, the 
dark portion of the eye. You may now cut fearlessly through this 
membrane and esi)Ose the eyeball. It is a good plan with large mam- 
mals to hold one linger of the left hand in the eye and cut against it to 
avoid cutting the lid. 

Skin down to the end of the nose, cut through the cartilage close to 
the bone, and cut on down to where the upper lip Joins the gum. (Jut 
both lips away from the skull close to the bone all the way around the 
mouth, except directly in front of the incisors. 

Tiie lips are tliick and th\shy, and must l)c split open from the inside 
and flattened out so that the llesli in them can be pared off. Do not 
cut off" the roots of the whiskers, or they will fall out. Pare away the 

* The figures aceomp.iiiyiiijj; this article arc selections from plates iuteuded to illus- 
trate a forthcouiinj^ work on taxidermy. 



662 



KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



membrane wiiieli adheres to the inside of the eyelids and turn the ear 
wrong side out at the base in order to cut away the flesh around it. 




Fig 2. — Skinuiug the head. 

If the ears have hair upon them they must be skinned up from the 
inside and turned wrong side out quite to the tip, in order to separate 
the outside skin, which holds the hair, from the cartilage which supports 
the ear. 

To prepare the skull, cut the larger masses of flesh off the cranium, 
cut out the eyes and tongue very carefully, and with a bent wire, or a 
spoon-handle bent uj) at the end, draw out the brain through the occip- 
ital opening at the back of the skull. 

By this time the skin will most surely have become bloody in several 
places, and before applying any preservative it must be washed 'per- 
fecthj clean. Blood left upon the hair imparts to it a lasting stain, and 
usually causes the hair to come off in mounting. After washing a skin, 
if it is to be made up .at once, dry the hair with corn meal. 

SKINNING LARGE MAMMALS. 

The principal difference between the manner of skinning a small ter- 
restrial quadruped and a large one, like a bear, deer, or buffalo, is that 
the skin of each \c.^ is slit open from the bottom of the foot up the back 




Fig 



rbo opcniiig-ciits. 



of the leg nearly the first joint and from th ence up the inside of the 
leg, following the lines of the accompanying ligure, until it meets the 



MAMMAL SKINS FOR STUDY AIN'D MOUiNTlNG. G63 

openiug-cut which has been made aloug the center of the body. In 
preparing a skin as hirge as that of a buffalo or hirge pohir bear, it is 
best to cut off' the leg-bones at the first joint above the foot, tie them 
up in a bundle with the skull, and forivard them icith the slcin, properly 
labeled. 

In skinning the head of an animal having horns, it is necessary to 
make an opening at the back of the neck. Make the cuts as shown by 
the lines of the accompanying figure, cut completely around each horn 




Fig. 4. — Opeuiug-Ruf s at buck of liead. 

at the base, and skin tlie head by working downward over the forehead 
and the cheeks. The head-skin of a large mammal is the most difficult 
part to remove and preserve successfully, and therefore the greatest 
care is necessary in its preparation. 

PRESERVING SKINS IN A DRY STATE. 

Skins of mammals may be preserved dry for any one of the follow- 
ing reasons : 

(1) For purposes of study, during which frequent handling and ex- 
amination is absolutely necessary. 

(2) Lack of facilities for preserving in a soft state, which should 
always, when j^ossible, be the method of treatment for skins that are 
to he mounted. 

(3) The necessities of transportation; or, in other words, when it is 
necessary to reduce the weight of a collection to the lowest ]>ossible 
limit, and divide it into a number of loads for carriage overland. 

One point in regard to study specimens must be constantly borne in 
mind, viz, that any specimen which enters a museum may possibly 
require mounting for exhibition, and all should be prepared in strict 
accordance with the advice which follows, in order that successful 
mounting may be possible in every case. 

A. — For small mammals, in any climate, VAllYlNCf IN SIZE FROM 
THE SMALLEST UP TO THE COYOTE. 

Preservation. — When the skin has been reinov<Ml and cleaned, the 
flesh neatly cut away from the leg-bones and skull, the brain very care- 
full^' removed from the latter, and all blood washed away, anoint the 



664 



REPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



iuside of the skin with arsenical soap, applying it thoroughly to 
every part, so that the specimens will not require a second course of 
poisoning when they reach the museum. That done, rub on powdered 
alum, all that will stick to the skin, before the arsenical soap has time 
to dry, so that both will iienetrate the skin together. 

In the absence of arsenical soap, apply a mixture of dry arsenic (one- 
third) and powdered alum (two-thirds). Whenever the inside of a skiu 
becomes so dry that the powdered arsenic and alum will not stick, 
moisten the inside of the skin with water, so that the preservative 
powder will form a sort of paste which can penetrate the skin. 

Malinfj up. — Having applied the preservatives, wrap a little tow, cot- 
ton, or rags around the bones of each leg, to iiartly replace the flesh 
and keep the skin away from the bone, so that both can dry quicklj'. 
This is also desirable in order that the legs may have a shapely, uatural 
appearance, and show the pelage, so that it can be studied to good ad- 
vantage. If this part of the process is neglected, the skin of the leg 
shrivels up and dries down upon the bone in a most unsightly way. In 
the tropics, the moisture in a leg-bone is sufficient to cause the decay of 
the skin which surrounds it, unless the two are well separated by some 
kind of wrapping. To avoid this, many collectors in tropical countries 
allow their skins to dry ivrong side out — a very bad habit, which should 
never be indulged in under any circumstances, as thereby the skins are, 
in most cases, rendered totally worthless. 




^^r^;?^ 



>5*?^^(pe^!t^ 







\ 



^^\ 



FiCr. &. — A biidly itiado skin. 

Having wrapped the leg-bones (just enough to bring them to their 
original size, but no more), turn the skin of each leg riglit side out over 
the bono and make the member as shapely and natural as your time will 
allow. 



MAMMAL SKINS FOR STUDY AND MOUNTIKG. 



G65 



•■•>>.j ^ 



'M 



im 



it has become ail established custom in preparing skius to replace 
the cleaneil skulls in the head, so that they can not possibly be lost. 
This is in general a good system, but in preparing skins for the Na- 
tional Museum remove the skull entirely from the skin. In this con- 
nection it is of the highest importance : 

(1) That skulls never be allowed to get mixed, so that the collector or 
the curator is left in doubt as to which skins the 

various skulls belong. 

(2) To prevent confusion by attachiufj to each sl-ull 
a label with a number or a mark corresponding to that 
which is tied to the shin. 

(.3) To tie every small skull to the skin it comes 
from, and ship all large ones in the boxes which 
contain their skius. 

In cleaning a skull, do not cut or chop away the 
back of it. This greatly lessens its scientific value, 
and in many cases destro3's it altogether. Eemove h 
the brain, cut off all the flesh you can, and leave ? 
the remainder to dry up. Never put salt or alum • 
on the skulls, especially if of small size. ^ 

In making up the skin, fill out the head, neck, and ^ 
body with cotton or tow, to about the natural size c 
of the animal when alive, but no larger. Better ; 
leave it too small than Jill it too full. With a needle ; 
and thread take a stitch in the center of the lips to ; 
hold them together in drying. Sew up the skin to ; 
give it a neat appearance, and comb the hair so that ; 
it will lie naturally on all parts and show the tex- J 
ture and color-markings to the best advantage. "- 

Shaping. — The ends to be sought in laying out a I 
skin to dry are, to have it take up a limited amount 
of space in a drawer, to have all breakable points 
protected, and at the same time to have all parts 
of the specimen accessible for examination. The 
shape of a skin, therefore, must depend on its char- 
acter and general nature. The accompanying figure 
represents the best form for the skin of a squirrel 
and all similar mammals. 

To protect the tail from being broken, it is nec- 
essary in making up a skin in this form to put a 
wire in it for its whole length. For this purpose, 

use copper or zinc wire, for the reason that iron wire rusts and in time 
destroys the skin of the tail so that it falls away in small pieces. In 
making up the skin, cut the wire for the tail long enough to extend 
into the middle of the body, and wrap around it some fine tow to make 
it the right size to fit the skin. Some collectors wire all the legs of 



mm 






66G 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



small skins, which is a good pUxn if time will permit, as it makes it pos- 
sible to place the legs in the exact position it is desired they should 
l)ermaueiitly retain. 

This method of shaping small skins (e. g., with the tail extending 
straight back) should always be followed by American collectors, who 
can easily command the facilities necessary to render it safe and advisa- 
ble. But for collectors who visit remote localities, and often have to 

transport their impedimenta for many 
miles on men's heads, done up in small 
bundles, and where every pound in 
weight and every cubic foot of space 
is carefully counted, another method 
must be recommended. Under such 
circumstances, small skins should be 
_ made up with the tail bent under the 

J;|i^^-y|v body, as seen in Fig. 7. The posi- 

f)|-'*w^>^ tion is not unnatural, the general form 

''^''% ^\ ^ 'I -^ ^^ compact, the tail is fully protected 
v^^^C/}M^V- J ^ ^y being bent under the body and tied 
'A§i,]!^'^x\4 1 down upon it, and the legs are not 
thrust outin such a way as to endanger 
the safety of the feet and claws. Ani- 
mals with long slender legs, such as 
monkeys, sloths, etc., should be put up 
with the fore legs lying close against 
the sides, in the opposite direction 
from those of the squirrel shown in 
the figure. 

B.— For Large Mammals. 

Preservation. — On dry uplands most 
skins can be cured and dried very suc- 
cessfully by the use of salt alone. In- 
deed, on our western plains, the llanos 
of South America, and the high pla- 
teaus of Asia, to say nothing of the 
parched bush-veldt of South Central 
Africa, mammal skins dry and harden 
in an incredibly short time without 
the use of any preservative whatever. In such regions it is only nec- 
essary to ripply a good coat of arsenical soap to keep off the vermin 
which would otherwise destroy them, and to keep them out of the sun. 
In a more moist climate salt must be used to cure skins, so that the 
epidermis will not slip off in the slower process of drying. In the 
humid heat of the tropics, it is necessary to apply dry alum after the 
salt has done the curing, in order to make the skins become perfectly 




MAMMAL SKINS FOR STUDY AND MOUNTING. 



667 



dry ami hard. Apply arseuical soap to every tliiug, or its absence will 
be bitterly regretted when too late. 

J)o not "peg oiW'' a alcin, nor dry it in the sun under any elrcnnisfanccs^ 
nor liany it up hy the nose. Ilang it over a pole or a rope, in a shady 
l)lace where the wind will strike it. If it is necessary to travel some 
distance with a skin before it can be dried and shaped, salt it thor- 
oughly to keep it from siioiling, 

Shaping. — Since these directions will be used chiefly in preparing the 
skins of deer, antelope, and kindred ruminants, the accompanying illus- 
tration is given to show how such skins should be made up when they 




Fig. 8. — A well-made dry deer skin. 

are to be preserved diy, either for study or for mounting. Tt is best to 
defer folding up a skin until it is partially dry and has begun to stiffen 
a little. 

Fill the head and neck with some kind of loose material, ami as the 
skin lies spread out with the hair side down, put some of the same 
material in a thin layer on the body. Fold over the edges neatly, 
placing the legs lengthwise on the top, and arrange the legs so that 
they will dry straight and flat instead of twisted like a cork-screw. A 
skin which is allowed to dry in such shape as that represented in Fig. 
9 is of no use whatever, either for study or mounting. The skin of 
which this illustration is an exact representation was ])repared tlius in 
tlie field by a professional taxidermist. It may be taken as a good 
example of how 7iot to do it. 

Handling and pacJcing. — It is unfortunate that it should be necessary 
to fold and dry large skins with the hair side out, for the pelage is thus 
in constant danger of damage; but for skins that are to be examined 



668 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



ill a dry state there is no alternative. They mast bo handled carefully 
when handled at all, and when prepared for shipment must hn 2>ocl-cd 
on all sides with straiv, shai'lngs, hay, or some other soft material, whieli 
will keep the hair away from the sides of the box. A large elk skin 




Fig. 9. — A l-adly made dry deer skiu. 



r('(;ently received by the Maseam was ruined by not being packed 
properly. There was no filling around it to keep it away from the 
rough boards of the box, and consequently the hair was rubbed off in 
about twenty places. 

PRESERVING SKINS FOR MOUNTING. 

A great many collectors aiul sportsmen are often specially called upon 
to procure skins for immediate mounting, and it is always desired that 
these should be as perfect in every respect as possible. 

Let me here call the attention of all collectors to the following fact : 

A mammal sTcin lohich has never been dried and hardened can he mounted 
in one third less time and with far greater accuracy tlian the hcst dry shin 
of the same kind. 

This being the case, it is certainly worth while to preserve skins in a 
soft state. A skin nujy be removed very unskillfully, but if kept soft 
until it reaches the taxidermist, it can be mounted with gratifying suc- 
cess. On the other hand, the dry skins of the most experienced collector 
can be mounted well only with difficulty. 

The following methods are recommended : 

In a temperate climate. — Under ordinary circumstances, in a temperate 
climate a skin may be preserved in a soft state by rubbing salt very 
thoroughly on the inside, and then leaving the skiu turned wrong-side 



MAMMAL SKINS FOR STUDY AND MOUNTING. 669 

out, packing it in salt, aud shipping it in that condition as soon as 
l)0ssiblc. A better method, or rather the best of all methods for any 
climate and all lands of sl-ins, is to prepare a sohitiou of salt and alum 
in water in the following proportions : For every gallon of water put in 
one pint of alum (three-fourths of a pound) and one quart of salt (one 
pound and three-fourths), stir it up, and heat it to the boiling i)oint. 
Pour it into a wooden or earthen vessel, and when cool, or milk warm, 
it is ready for use. Plunge a skin into this bath and move it about until 
the solution reaches every part. Give a fresh skin plenty of room for 
the first day or two, and if it be a large one move it about every day 
for three days so that the solution can act with full force on every part. 
Fresh skins of all kinds may be placed in this bath (leg-bones of 
small skins may also be left attached) and allowed to remain in it for 
months without deteriorating in any way 5 even after five years they are 
still as soft aud ()liable as when first taken off. The slcnlls should inva- 
riably he detached from the skins and dried. Small skins may be shipped 
in glass jars or wooden kegs, aud large ones in barrels. 

If you have alcohol sufficiently strong (30^ above proof), skins may be 
immersed in it as fast as collected, instead of in tlie salt and alum solu- 
tion. The objections to alcohol are that it loses strength very rapidly 
when receiving daily accessions of fresh skins, bleaches hair, and must 
be renewed froth time to time until the collection is finally jiacked in 
fresh alcohol and shipped. 

In an arctic climate. — As before stated, the salt-and-alum solution is 
the best icet ineservative for slcins in all climates, aud for all objects from 
the largest elephant, seal, walrus, or polar bear, down to the smallest 
bat of the tropics. If it is impossible or impracticable to employ it, the 
skins of all large arctic mammals may be successfully preserved by im- 
mersing them in very strong brine, but it should be renewed at least once 
or twice. The skins of seals and small mammals may be simply packed 
in salt. Care should be taken that skins are not stained with iron- 
rust derived from nails projecting into the barrels or other receptacles 
in which they are placed. 

In a tropical climate. — Skius can not be preserved with salt in a tropi- 
cal climate, but must be immersed either in the salt and-alum solution, 
or alcohol, or else dried. 

SPECIMENS IN THE FLESH. 

The most valuable of all specimens which come to us are those sent in 
the flesh. A rare animal so received is sometimes cast iu plaster, skinned, 
dissected, and skeletonized ; and portions of the viscera may be pre- 
served in spirits for aiuitomical study. In this way a single subject is 
often made to yield a number of valuable preparations. The Institu- 
tion will be very glad to receive the dead body of any foreign animal 
which may die in the eastern United States, and also of any rare or 
especially fine North American species. 



670 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

FORWARDING ANIMALS IN THE FLESH. 

In cold weather, particularly from December 1 to March 1, a dead 
animal may safely be sent (frozen) from as far west as the Rocky 
Mountains. In the cool months of November and March specimens may 
safely be forwarded from points 500 miles distant. From May to Octo- 
ber animals should be disemboweled and packed in ice when sent from 
points more than twelve hours by rail from Washington. 

Large animals with thick hair, such as deer, elk, moose, bear, etc., ciin 
be sent without boxing, but it will be well to sew them up in coarse 
sacking to protect the hair. Small animals and others with close hair, 
such as the zebra, lion, tiger, or giraffe should be boxed and packed in 
straw or shavings to protect the hair from being rubbed off. Animals 
of the largest size, such as rhinoceros, elephant, or hippopotamus must 
be skinned and skeletonized where they die by our own preparators, 
who hold themselves in readiness to start at once for any point, on the 
receipt of information by telegraph. 

The Smithsonian Institution will pay all charges for boxing and cart- 
age upon i^resentation of vouchers in regular form, and all freight and 
express charges will be met here. As a rule, dead animals should always 
be sent by express, the exceptions being in the cases of large animals 
forwarded from a great distance in the middle of winter* when they could 
as safely come by freight. 

All donations are promptly acknowledged by the director of the Mu- 
seum, both by letter and in the annual report, and the names of donors 
also appear in the catalogues, and upon the large printed labels attached 
to their specimens in the exhibition cases. 

TRANSPORTATION. 

Specimens should be very securely packed previous to shipment, and 
plainly addressed as follows: ^'Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. 
C: for the National Museum. Perishable.'''' Shipments may be for- 
warded by Government vessels when available, or by the ordinary lines 
of transportation at the expense of the Institution. 

In case immediate information or instructions are required in relation 
to any dead animal of special importance, which is at the disposal of 
the institution, the donor or his representative may telegraph without 
paying charges. 

Telegrams and correspondence should be addressed to '■''Prof. tS. P. 
Langley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. 0." 

In all cases the utmost dispatch is necessary in order that specimens 
sent may reach us in good condition for anatomical study and dissection. 

U. S. National Museum, 

Washington, D. C, April 12, 1886. 



F^RT I^. 



BIBLIOGILIPIIY OF THE U S. NATIONAL MUSEUM DURING THE YEAR 
ENDING JUNE 80, 188G. 



ANALYSIS : 

Page. 

I. Publication.s of tho Museum 1 G7!? 

11. Publications I)y officers of tlie Museum and other investigators whoso 

writings are based, directly or indirectly, on Museum material G74 



671 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE 
ENDING JUNE 80, 1886. 



YEAR 



I.— PUBLICATIONS OP THE MUSEUM. 

The foUowiug is a list of the tweuty-six sigiiiitures (iiicludiug four 
huudred and twelve pages) of the "Proceedings of the U. S. National 
Museum." published between July 1, 1885, and July 1, 1886.* 



Date. 



July 13... 
13... 
13. . . 
13... 
Aug. 6... 
7... 
7... 
Sept. 2... 

2 

2... 

2... 

U... 

17... 



Signatm-o 
uumber. 


Pages. 


]5 


225-240 


16 


241-2.06 


17 


257-272 


18 


273-288 


19 


289-3(14 


20 


30.5-320 


21 


321-336 


22 


337-352 


23 


353-308 


2-1 


369-3H4 


25 


385-400 


2d 


401-416 


27 


417-432 



Date. 



Sept. 22 
23 
23 
23 
28 
30 
30 
30 

Oct. 17. 
19 
30 

N'ov. 3 

Dec. 7 



Signature 
number. 



433-448 
449-464 
465-480 
481-496 
497-.'il2 
513-528 
529-544 
545-560 
501-576 
577-592 
593-608 
609-624 
C25-C36 



The following bulletins of the U. S. JSTational Museum appeared dur- 
ing the year : 

Department of the Interior: | U. S. National Museum, j — | Bulletin | 
of the I United States National Museum | No. 23. ( Bibliographies 
of American naturalists.! — [ II. The published writings of Isaac 
Lea, LL. D. | by | Newton Pratt Scudder | — | Washington: | Gov- 
ernment Printing Office. | 1885. 

8vo. pp. I-LIX. 1-278. One plate. 

Department of the Interior: | U. S. National Museum. | 
of the I United States Natio)ial Museum. | — | No. 
of American land shells. | By | W. G. Binney. | 
Government Printing Office. | 1885. 

8vo. pp. 1-528. 51(5 ligures. 

*No 8ignature.s priutod during the first six moutlis of 1886. 

t Parts I aud in have also been publiahed ; the former as Bulletin 20, Publications of 
Spencer Fullerton Baird, by G. Brown Goodo ; the latter is mentioned below as Bul- 
letiu 30, for which see also Bibliography, Part ii, under John Belknap Marcou. 

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 43 673 



— I Bulletin | 
28. I A manual 
Washington : I 



674 



EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886 



Department of the laterior : | U. S. ISTatioiial Museum. [ — | Bulletin | 
of the I United States National Museum. | No. 29. | Results of or- 
nithological explorations in the | Commander Islands and Kamts- 
chatka | by | Leouhard Stejneger. [ — | Washington: | Govern- 
ment Printing Office. | 1885. 
8vo. pp. 1-382; Plates 1-8. 
Department of the Interior: | U. S. National Museum. | — | Bulletin | 
of the I United States National Museum. | No. 30. | Bibliographies 
of American naturalists. — j III. Publications relating to fossil in- 
vertebrates I by I John Bel knap Marcou. | — | Washington: | Gov- 
ernment Printing Office, j 1885. 
8vo. pp. 1-333. 
Circulars No. 34 and No. 35 were published as separates during this 
year. They bear the following titles : 

No. 34. Circular for the guidance of jiersons desiring to make exichauges 
of birds or birds' eggs with the National Museum. 
8vo. Oue page. 
No. 35. Concerning the lending of type specimens. 
8vo. One oage. 



II.— PAPERS BY OFFICERS OF THE MUSEUM AND OTHER INVESTIGATORS 
WHOSE WRITINGS ARE BASED DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ON MU- 
SEUM MATERIAL. 



ALPHABETICAL LIST. 



American Ornithologists' Union. 

Atkins, Charles G 

Bean, Tarleton H.* 

Beckham, Charles W. * 

Beyer, Henry G.* 

Binney, William G 

Brown, Herbert 

Bryant, Walter E 

Bush, Katharine J 

Chadbourue, Arthnr P 

Clark, A. Howard* 

Clarke, F.W.* 

Clarke, J.M 

Collins, Joseph W.* 

Cory, Charles B 

Cos, William Van Zandt* 

Dall, William Healey* 

Dewey, Fred P. * 

Eigenmann, Carl H 

E vermann. Barton W 

Faxon, Walter 

Fewkes, J.Walter '. .. 

Garrison, F. Lynnwood 

Gill, Theodore N 

Godman, F. DuCane 



Page. 
675 
675 
675 
676 
676 
677 
678 
678 
678 
678 
679 
679 
679 
679 
679 
679 
679 
681 
681 
681 
681 
681 
681 
681 
682 



Page. 

Goode, G. Brown* 682 

Gray, Asa 682 

Guillemard, F. H. H 682 

Havard, V 682 

Hay, O.P 682 

Heushaw,H.W 682 

Hitchcock, Romyn* 682 

Hodge, E.B 683 

Hutchinson, Jacob R 683 

Jordan, David S 683 

Kidder, J.H 684 

Kunz, George F 684 

Lawrence, George N 684 

Lucas, Frederic A.* 684 

Marcou, John Belknap* 684 

Mason, Otis T.* 684 

Mather, Fred 685 

Meek, Seth E 685 

Merriam, C. Hart 685 

Merrill, George P.* 685 

Murdoch, John* 685 

Nye, Willard, jr 685 

Orcntt, Charles R 686 

Palmer, William* 686 

Potter, Emory D 686 



* Connected with the National Museum. 



BIELlOGKArilY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



675 



ALPiiAHK'iiCAL LIST— contiuued 



Page. 

Potts, Edward 666 

Qnackenbos, John 1) 6S6 

Ratlibun, Richard* 6S6 

Ridgsvay, Robert* 087 

Riley, Charles V. * 687 

Ryder, John A (393 

Salvin, O.* 694 

Sclater, Philip Lutley 694 

Scudder, Newton Pratt 694 

Setou, Ernest E. T 694 

Shnfeldt,R.W 694 

Smith, Hugh M.* 694 

Smith John B.* 694 

Smith, Sidney I 696 

Stearus, R. E. C. * 696 



Page. 

Stearus, Silas 696 

Stejneger, Leonhard* 696 

Sterling, E 697 

Stone, Li vingston 697 

Swan, James G 607 

True, Frederick W. * 697 

Turner, Lucien M 698 

Verrill, A.E 698 

Walcott, Charles D.* 699 

Washburn, F. L 699 

Webber, Samuel 699 

White, Charles A.* 699 

Williams, Heury S 699 

Woodard.S.S 699 



Ameiucan Oknithologists' Union. The Code of Nomenclature | and | Check-list | 
of I Northern American Birds | Adopted by the American Ornithologists' Union | 
Being the report of the Committee of the 1 Union on Classiticatiou and | Nomen- 
clature I — I Zoological Nomenclature is a means, not an end, of Zoological 
Science | — | New York | American Ornithologists' Union | 1886. 
8vo. pp. 1-vni, 1-392. 

Although uot a Natioual Museum publication, and only partially prepared by oflBcera of 
the Mu.seum, this comprohensivo volume was based npon work of the committee charged with 
its pieparatiou during sessions held in the office and laboratories of the department of birds, 
upon researches in the Museum library, txamination of specimens in the Museum collection, 
and critical investigations connected wlUi the regular work of the Department. 

The manuscript of the check-list was prepared chiefly by the curator and assistant curator; 
Mr. J. A. Allen, president of the Union and member of the committee, adding only the habi- 
UitA and concordance of numbers. The preparation of this MSS. involved an immense amount 
of research, rendered necessary in order to determine beyond reasonable question the earliest 
available name of each species. They also revised carefully galley and paged proofs, not only 
of the check-list proper, but of the Code of Nomenclature, and conducted an extended corre- 
si)ondence with other members of the committee, whose work upon the book was chiefly of an 
advisory nature. The committee was composed of the following members : J. A. Allen, Will- 
iam Brewster, Elliot Couos, II. "\V. Ilenshaw, and liobert Eidgway. Dr. Leonhard Stejneger 
took part in the deliberations of the committee and prepared part of the check-list by special 
invitation. 

Charles G. Atkins. The biennial spawning of salmon. 
Forest and Stream, xxv. No. 9, Sept. 24, 1885, p. 169. 

Taulkton H. Bean. Description of a new species of Pein/pheris {Pcmpheris poeyi) 
from Cuba. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vni, July 13, 1885, p. 229. 

Takleton H. Bean. Notes on Epinephelus nigritits, Caulolatilus microps and Cory- 
phwna hippurus. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vni, July 13, 1885, pp. 230-233. 
Tai'.leton H. Bean. Rocky Mountain Whitetish. 

Forest and Stream, xxv. No. 20, Dec. 10, 1885, p. 390. 
Taulkton H. Bean. The Trout of Sunapee Lake. 

Forest and Stream, xxvi, No. 7, March 16, 1886, pp. 129-130. 

Takleton H. Bean. Comments on Zijijoneclea manrii and Zyyonectea aurogutlatus, 
Hay. 

Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., VIH, Sept. 30, 1885, p. 555. 

* Connected with the National Museum. 



676 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Tarleton H. Bean and G. Brown Goode. Descriptiou of Leptojihidium cervinum 
aucl L. marmoratum, uew iishes from deep water otf the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., viii, Sept. 17, 1885, pp. 422-42i. 
See under G. Brown Goode. 

Tarleton H. Bean and G. Brown Goode. DescriiJtion of uew fishes obtained by 
the U. S. Fish Commission, mainly from deep wateroif the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vm, Oct. 19 andSO, 1885, pp. 589-605. 
See under G. Brown Goode and Tarleton H. Bean. 

Charles W. Beckham. Remarks upon the plumage of Eegulus calendula. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,vm, Dec. 7, 1885, pp. 625-628. 

Proves that the female does not have the brightly-colored crown and that some young malea 
in autumn do possess this ornament. 

Charles W. Beckham. Cbanges in the Plumage of Geothlypis irichas. 

The Axik, in, April, 1886, pp. 279-281. 

States that the males not only never assume the plumage of the female after having once at 
tained the masculine livery, but that young birds molt directly into a plumage approaching 
that of the adult males. 

Charles W. Beckham. Kentucky Geological Survey. | John R. Proctor, Director. 
I — I List of the | Birds of Nelson County. | — | By Charles Wickliffe Beckham. 
I — I Electrotyped for the Survey by John D. Woods, public printer and binder, 
Frankfort, Ky. 

Royal quarto, pp. 1-59. 

Published by the Kentucky Geological Survey. An annotated list of one hundred and 
seventy-one species. A great many of the specimens upon which the remarks are based have 
been presented to the Museum by the author. 

Henry G. Beyer. The influence of variation of temperature upon the rate and 
work of the heart of the Slider Terrapin, Pseudemys rugosa. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,xui, July 13, 1885, pp. 225-229. Plates xv-xvi. 

In this paper, which is but a preliminary account of the subject, it is conclusively shown by 
experiment that, although the rate of the heart moves with the temperature of the blood 
which circulates through this organ, the work done increases with that temperature only up 
to a certain limit, and then rapidly goes down. Tliis limit may be found different for the dif- 
ferent animals. Heat being, no doubt, a musculo-motor stimulant, the decrease in the work 
done by the heart consequent upon passing blood of an abnormally high temperature through 
it, must be conceived as due to exhaustion from over stimulation of the musculo-motor ap- 
paratus. 

It was found in these experiments that, when blood of comparatively high temperature was 
allowed to circulate through the heart, that the latter is moreover considerably reduced in 
volume, and both systole and diastole are shortened. Blood of a lower temperature, on the 
contrary, caused a very marked prolongation of the diastole and systole, and also a very decided 
increase in the volume of the heart. 

Blood of low temperature, therefore, though reducing the rate and the work done in a given 
time, by prolonging the diastolic excursions and giving rise to considerable enlargement of 
the oro^aa, causes the heart to pump more blood around with each systolic contraction than 
blood of a high temperature does. In respect to its influence upon the heart, therefore, heat 
resembles atropine used in -small doses, and cold resembles it as when it is used in large doses. 

Henky G. Beyer. The influence of Kairin, Thallin, Hydro- | chiuon, Resorcin and 
Autipyrin, on | the Heart an dBlood-vessels. | By | H. G. Beyer, M. D., M. R. C. S., | 
Passed Assistant Surgeon, U. S. N., Honorary Curator, Section Materia Medica, | 
U.S. National Museum. | — | from | The American Journal of the Medical Sciences 
I April, 1886. 
8vo. pp. 1-34. 
Published as a separate. 

In this paper the action of the so-called antipyretics on the heart and blood vessels istreated 
quite exhaustively. The paper itself is but a summary of the results which wore obtained 
from a large number of experiments, and all that need be said here is that antipyrin was found 
to be the only real remedy among them. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. G77 

Henky G. Bkykk. The Iiillupuceof Cocalno, Atropiiio | and Caffeine on the Heart, | 
aud Blood-vessels. | By | H. G. Boyer, M. D.,M. K. C. S., | Passed Assistant Sur- 
geon, U. S. N., Honorary Curator, Section Materia Medica, | U. S. National Mu- 
seum. I — I From I The American Journal of the Medical Sciences. | July, 1885. 
8vo. pp. 1-31. Plates, 2. 

Also published under the title "Biological deductions from a comparative study of the in- 
fluence of Cocaine aud Atropine on the Organs of Circulation." (Abstract.) Proc. Am. AiS. 
Adv. Sei., xxxiv, 1885, pp. 318-32:. This abstract and the one below published together as 
separates. 

In this paper the conclusions arrived at were stated to be abont as follows, viz : The atro- 
pine-muscarine antagonism, as manifested by the heart, is i)robably of a muscular nature 
rather than a nervous plienomenou, as has been supposed hitherto. Atropine stimulates the 
endings of both vagus and accelerator nerves within the heart as well as tho muscular sub- 
stance of the organ. Cocaine alfects the nerve-endings in the same manner as atropine does; 
but, unlike the latter, has uo stimulatory action on the muscular substance of the heart. 

Henry G. Beyer. A Study of the Structure of Lingula {Glottidia) pyramidaia Stimp, 
(Dall), by H. G. Beyer, M. D., F. R. C. S., Passed Assistant Surgeon, U.S. Navy, 
Honorary Curator, Section Materia Medica, U. S. National Museum. 

Studies from the Tiiological Laboratory (Johns Hopkins University), in, No. 5, 1SS6, pp. 227- 
265. 

Also as the Structure of Glottidia pyramidata (Stimp.) Dall. (Abstract.) Proc. Am. Ass. A dv. 
Sei., XXXIV, 1885, pp. 321-324. 
This abstract and the one immediately above published together as separates. 
The following are the prominent points brought out in this paper: 

1. Shell-structure. — The so-called Jiorny layers of the shell are not identical in structure with 
the periostracum, but are composed of supporting tissue and represent the homologues of the 
vertical septa in Testicardine brachiopods. 

2. Body-wall, mantle, and peduncle. — Consist of three layers, namely: An outer ectodermal 
covering, made up of one or more layers of small cuboidal nucleated cells, a middle layer of 
supporting substance, variously modified according to situation, and an internal layer of lining 
peritoneal epithelium, which latter is flattened and is provided with a sm.all central nucleus. 

3. Alimentary canal. — Consists of three layers throughout its whole extent, viz: a, an ex- 
ternal layer of very loose supporting substance, covered on its outer side witu peritoneal epi- 
thelium and blood-corpuscles ; b, a middle layer of extremely minute and very little differen- 
tiated cells ; c, an internal layer of long and very narrow ciliated cells. The intestinal canal 
opens by an anus into the mantle-chamber. 

4. Muscular structure. — All the muscles were found to be of the non-striated variety. Cer- 
tain structures which have been described as parietal muscles aud as the muscle of the pe- 
duncle were found to possess the characters of mesenchymatous-snpporting substance and 
were, accordingly, relegated to that class of tissues rather than muscles. 

5. Vascular system.. — No central circulatory propelling organ nor a closed system of blood- 
vessels were found, but, instead, two oblong, pyriforra, sack-like organs, situated on either side 
of the cesophagus, which, it was thought, might perhaps function as heart. 

6. Nervous system. — Is subectodermal and consists of five ganglionic enlargements, which, 
from their respective situations, were termed as follows : 

(1) the large central snboesophageal ganglion; (2) the two dorso-lateral or supra-oeso- 
phageal ganglia ; (3) the two ventro-lateral ganglia. They are ail joined together by a circum- 
oesophageal commissure of fine nerve-fibers. That i)ortion of the commissures connecting the 
ventro-lateral with the dorso- lateral ganglia is <iouble. Both multipolar and apolar nerve-cells 
were Ibund, all of them being comparatively small and consisting of a finely granular proto. 
plasm with a small round central nucleus. 

7. Genital organs. — Both male and female organs of generation were foundpresent within the 
same individual. The mantle-sinuses inclose a band, termed the "genital band," from which 
ova, as well as spermatophores are developed. "Within the body cavity the ova spring more 
exclusively from the peritoneal membrane, covering the mesenteric bands and tlieir reflected 
portions, while the spermatophores develop from the spongj' net-work of supporting substance 
covering the lateral body- wall on its inner surface. 

William G. Binxey. Department of the Interior: | U. S. National Museum. | — | 
Bulletin | of the | U. S. National Museum. | No. 28. | A Manual of American Land 
Shells. I By | W. G. Binuoy. | — | Washington: | Government Printing Office. | 
188.'). 

8vo. pp. ]-r)28, 510 figures. 

A general manual, illustr.ited with w.iod-ciil.s, treating of tlio species systematically under 
each m.alacological ])rovince. 



678 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Herbert Brown. Arizona Quail. (Notes.) 

Forest and Stream, xxv, Dec. 31, 1885, No. 23, p. 445. 
Walter E. Bryant. The relationship o^ Podiccps occidentalis and L'. clarklL 
The Auk ; II, July, 1885, pp. 313-314. 
Inclines to the opinion that the differences between the two alleged species are only .sexual. 
Conclusions based partly on twenty-five specimens in the National Museum. 

Katharine J. Bush. Additions to the Shallow- Water Mollnsca of Cape Hatteras, 
North Carolina, dredged by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross in 1883 
and 1884. 

Trans. Conn. Acad., vi, part n, June, 1885, pp. 453-480, plate xlv. 

The following list is intended to include only species not previously recorded from the re- 
gion of Cape Hatteras between low-water mark and 50 fathoms, although in one or two in- 
stances recorded species are mentioned where there is some v.iriation from the original de- 
scription or doubt as to their identity. It is by no means complete, as there are still a num- 
ber of species which have not been satisfactorily identified. There is .also a large amount of 
fine shell-saud which has not yet been assorted. 

At the end a list is given. of deep-water species found in not less than 40 fathoms, many of 
which have not before been found so far south. 

A list of the dredging stations made by the Albatross in the region of Cape Hatteras, with 
the date regarding them, is given on page 454. Eighty-four species of mollusca are enumer- 
ated from less than 50 fathoms, including thirteen new species .and one new variety, which 
are described and mostly figured. Descriptions of some of the old species are also given. The 
new species are as follows : 

GASTROPODA. 

Page. 

Mangiliapsila, pi. xlv, fig. 2 455 

eritima 456 

ceroplasta 458 

Skenea frilix, pi. xlv, figs. 7, 7a 464 

Sealaria Icptalea 465 

teres, pi. xlv, fig. 8 465 

Odostomia engonia 466 

var. teres, \i\. xlv, fig. 9 467 

Oylichna ccelata, pi. xlv, fig. 15 468 

Volvida oxylata, pi. xlv, fig. 12 468 

■mmM<a, pi. xlv, fig. 11 469 

SOLENOCONCHA. 

Oatdtdusindnus, pi. xlv, fig. 20 .„^„ .. 471 

LAJIELLIBRANCUIATA. 

Pandora carolinensis 474 

Yenericardia obliqua 478 

The following additional species are flgureil on plate xlv : 
Mangilia ephamilia Bush, figs. 4, 4a. 

Tnelanitica. 

var. oa;iaBush, figs. 3, 3a. 

oxylata Bush, fig. 1. 

(?) glypta Bush, figs. 5, 5a. 
Triforis turris-tliomoe Dall, fig. 6. 
Niso oeglecs Bush, figs. 10, 10a. 
Actceonpuncto-striatus Stimp., fig. 17. 
PhilineSagra (D'Orb.), figs. 10, IGa. 
Gylichna biplocata (Lea), fig. 14. 
Hulla Candei D'Orb., fig. 13. 
Dentaliuin leptum Bush, figs. 18, ISa. 
Cadulus carolinensis Bush, fig. 19. 
Necera costata Bush, fig. 21. 

Arthur P. Chadbouene. On a New Race of the Field Sparrow from Texas. 
The Auk, m, April, 1886, pp. 248-249. 

Eefers to the type specimen of Spizella werlheni in the National Musouni, which was com 
pared with the form described. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 679 

A. Howard Clakk. History of tlio Iccd-Fish and Fiozcu-Fish Tnido of the United 

States. 

Trans. Am. Fixli. Hoc, I88(i, p. 08. 

F. W. Clarkk. The relations of tlio Government to chemistry. 
Bulletin of the Chemical Society of Washington, No. 1, pp. 9-22. 

Anuual address of the president of the Chemical Society of Washington, di^liverod Decern 
her 10, 1885. 

F. W. Clarke. Tbo minerals of Litclifield, Me. 
Ata. Journ. ScL, April, 18^0, i>p. 262-272. 

Descrihes elaiolite, cancrinito, and sodalito, with a new species, liydronophclite, ,iud dis- 
cusses formula}. Two hundred sexiarates printed. 

F. W. Clarke. Report of Chief Cbemist. 

Fifth Annual lieport of the United States Geological Survey, 1883-'84 (188.')), pp. .59-02. 
.1. M. Clarke. On a higher Devonian Fauna of Ontario Countj% N. Y. 

Bull. IC, U. S. Geological Survey, pp. 1-8G ; 3 iilates. 

.Joseph W. Collixs. Unusual abundance of cod on Brown's Banks. 
Bull. 17. S. Fish Com., v, Aug. 7, 1885, p. 234. 

.losEPii W. Collins. FLshing on an edge of the Grand Bank. 

Bull. JJ. S. Fish Com., V, Aug. 12, 1885, p. 256. 
JcsEPH W. Collins. Edible qualities of smoked king-fish {Smmberomorun camlla) 
Cuv. 

Bull. V. S. Fish Com., v, Sept. 15, 1885, p. 359. 

.Jo.SEPii W. Collins. Proposition to prex)are kiug-tisli by smoking. 
Bull. U. 8. Fish Com., v, Sept. 15, 1885, p. 360. 

Joseph W. Collins. Report on the investigation of iishiug grounds in the Gulf of 
Mexico, with notes on the lisheries of that region. 
Report TJ. S. Fish Com., 1885, pp. 217-311, 10 plates. 

Charles B. Cory. The birds of the West Indies, including the Bahama Islands, 
the Greater and the Lesser Antilles, excepting the islands of Tobago and Trini- 
dad. 

The Auk, in, Jan. and Apr., 1886, pp. 1-59 and 187-245. 
To a great extent based on material in the National Museum. 
William Van Zandt Cox. A Glance at Billingsgate. 
Forest and Stream, xxv, 1, July 30, 1885, pp. 9-10. 

Describes the methods of sale, etc., employed in this ancient and important fish-market. 
William Healey Dall. Notes on some Floridian land and fn^sli-wator shells, with 
a revision of the Auricidacea of the Eastern United States. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,vni, July 13, 188.5, pp. 255-289. Plates xvn-xvni. 
William Healey Dall. On IVtr&meZte ^j^j-wm Lamarck, and its dentition. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vni, Sept. 2, 1888, pp. 345-348. Plate xix. 

Describes the soft parts of a moUusk, of which the shell has been known since Pliny, but 
of which the anatomy had hitherto remained unknown, and consequently a doubt had rested 
on the systematic position hitherto assigned to the species. 

William IIealey Dall. Memorandum on the mounds of Satsuma and Enterprise, 

Fla. 

Am. Journ. of Archcbology, I, No. 2, July, 1885, pp. 184-189. 

Contains an account of the structure of the mound and a list of the shells found within. The 
writer takes the position that the mound is in part artificial and intentional, and not the mere 
relic of innumerable dinners whose refu.se was cast away without thought of niound-ni.aking. 
William Healey Dall. The teeth of Invertebrates. 

Cyclopedia of Dentistry, i, 1886, pp. 337-350. 

An illustrated article on the teeth of invertebrates in general, and especially of the Echini 
and mollusks, for theCyclopediaof Dentistry, published by Lea Bros. & Co., and edited by Drs. 
Piorce, Leitch, and others. 

William Healey Dall. The National Government and Science. 
The Evening Post, New York, Dec. 31, 1885. 

Di-scusses the relations which should exist between scientific mim and the organization of 
the execntive and legislative departments of the Government. 



680 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

WiLMAM Healey Dall. Ncwm. 

Nature, xxxiv, No. 6, Juno 10, 1886, p. 122. 

Calls attention to tlie absBnce of gilLs and other anatomical peculiarities of" Nccera (Giispi- 
daria) and its subgenus Myonera. 

William Healey Dall. Work of the CUallenger Expedition I. General and Phys- 
ical. II. From a zoological stand-point. 

Science, n, ISlo. 126, July 3, 1885, pp. 15-16, and No. 128, July 17, 1885, pp. 54-56. 

William Healky Dall. Miocene deposits in Florida. 
Science, vi, No. 1.30, July 31, 1885, p. 82. 

Notes the occurrence of Ecphora quadricostata at Tampa and the probable large extent of 
so-called Miocene strata in Florida. 

William Healey Dall. West African Islands. (Review.) 
Science, vi, No. 140, Oct. 9, 1885, pp. 306-307. 

William Healey Dall. Admiral Baron Ferdinand von Wraugell. (Review.) 
Science, vi. No. 144, Nov. 6, 1885, pp. 417-418. 

William Healey Dall. The arms of the octopus or devil-fish. 
Science, VI, No. 145, Nov. 13, 1885, p. 432. 

Notes a specimen with a spread of arms of over 32 feet, taken at Unalashka, Aleutian Isl.and.i, 
in 1874. 

William Healy Dall. Report of the Point Barrow Station. (Review.) 
Science, VI, No. 146, Nov. 30, 1885, pp. 446-447. 

William Healey Dall. Shell-fish in Connecticut. (Review.) 
Science, vn. No. 154, Jan. 15, 1886, pp. 59-60. 

William Healey Dall. Explorations in Alaska by the brothers Kranse. (Review. ) 

SHence, vil. No. 156, Jan. 29, 1886, pp. 95-96. 

William Healey Dall. Recent Challenger Reports. Lamellihranchiata. (Review.) 
Science, vii. No. 162, March 12, 1886, p. 250. 

William HEA.LEY Dall. Bancroft's History of Alaska. (Review.) 
Science, vn, No. 164, March 26, 1886, p. 292. 

William He.\ley Dall. Schwatka's Along Alaska's Great River. (Review.) 
Science, vir, No. 165, April 2, 1886, p. 308. 

Correction of erroneous statements in an anonymous review of Schwatka's work in a pre- 
vious number (p. 294). 

William Healey Dall. Distribntionof colors in the animal kingdom. (Review.) 
Science,vu, No. 177, June 25, 1886, p. 572. 

Correction of some erroneous assumptions in Camerano's work relating to the color of mol- 
lusks. 

William Healey Dall. Department of the Interior. | Bnlletin | of the | United 
States I Geological Survey. | No. '24. | — | List of Marine Molluska comprising the 
Quaternary Fossils and recent forms from American local- | ities between Cape 
Hatteras and Cape | Roque, inclviding the Bermudas. | — \ Washington: Govern- 
ment Printing Offiee. 188.5. 
8vo. pp. 1-336. 

An index to the literature of the recent .and quaternary mollusca of the region stated, pre- 
ceded by a bibliography giving the full titles and dates of tlie journals and publications indexed^ 
The indexing was done under the author's direction, and includes about twelve thousand eight 
hundred entries. 

William Healey Dall. Mollnsks from near Point Barrow. 

Report of the Expedition to Point Barrow, AZasfca (1882-'83), pp. 177-184. 

William Healey Dall. The Native Tribes of Alaska. | An | Address | l)eforethe | 
Section of Anthropology | of the | American Association for the Advancement of 
Science | at | Ann Arbor, August, 18S5. | — | By | William H. Dall, | vice-presi- 
dent. I — I [From the Proceedings of the American Association for the Advance- 
ment I of Science, vol. xxxiv, Ann Arbor Meeting, August, 1885.] | Printed at 
the Salem Press. | Salem, Mass. | 1885. 
8vo. pp. 1-19. 
Also in Proc. Am. Ass. Adv. Sci., xxxiv, August, 1885, pp. 363-379. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S, NATIONAL MUSEUM. 681 

Willia:<! IIealky Dall, CnAni.ES R. Orcutt, and. Notes on tlie niolhisks of tbo 
vicinity of Sau Diego, California, and Todos Santos Bay, Lower California, by 
Charles R. Orcutt ; with coaiinents by VV. H. Dall. 

Proe. v. S. Nat. Mus., vni, Sept. 30, 1885, pp. 534-552. Plate xxiv. 

Thi8 paper comprisoa a list by Mr. Orcutt of the species, with their Htations, hahits, etc , 
with systematic notes oa variousspecioa, descriptions of iameHaria diego'ensis, Crecuni call/or- 
niciini anil C.orcutti. Leptothjra. var. lurida anil Platidia var. radiatn D.all, with an account 
of the niarsupinin in the female Milncria minima DM, and the light which this discovery 
tlirowson tlie formation of tbe more specialized marsupiura of Thecalia concamerata Adams. 

Fiti'-.D. P. Dewey. The Copper Industry of the United States. 
Chautaiiquan, vi, No. 2, 1885, pp. 9,5-08. 

Gives a short account of the occurrences of copper, the methods of its extraction, and its 
most important uses. , 

Fred. P. Dewey. Porosity and Specific Gravity of Flat Top Coke. 
Virginias, vi, Ko. 10, 1885, p. 138. 

Gives the results of an examination of the coke made in the Soldenhoff Copp6e Ovens, at 
Hawlv's Nest, Virginia, from the Blue Stone Coal of West Virginia. 

Fkei). p. Dewey. Statement before the Select Coturaittee of the Senate on Ord- 
nance and War Ships. 

Report of the Select Committee of the Senate on Ordnance and War Shijjs, pp. 263-280 of ap- 
pendix. 

Gives some general information as to the iron ores of tlie country with especial reference to 
their adaptability to making steol, and some special statements in regard to the steel-making 
iron ores of the South, giving many perssonal analyses. 

Cart. H. Eigenmann. A review of the American Gasterosteidse. 
rroc. Ac. Kat. Sci. Phila., 18S6, pp. 233-252. 

Barton W. Evermann. 

See under Seth E. Meek. 

Walter Faxon. A list of the Astacida? in the United States National Mu.seum. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vui, Sept. 2, 1885, pp. 356-361. 

Contains the names of forty-,seven species and varieties, all of which, excepting four, are 
from North America. The origin of each lot of specimens is stated, and the catalogue numbers 
under which they are registered are given. 

J. Walter Fewkes. On a collection of Medusae made by theU. S. Fish Commi.ssiou 
steamer Albatross in the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico. 
Proc. IT. S. Nat. Mus., vni, Sept. 2 and 14, 1885, pp. 397-402, pi. XX. 

"The greater part of this collection was made in the years 1884 and 18S5. It contains no 
new species, but is interesting in a study of the geographical distribution of these animals, and 
is a supplement to a paper already prepared on the Medusa; of the Gulf Stream. Many of the 
genera and species here mentioned up to the present have not been recorded from the region 
of the Gulf Stream, but will probably be later taken from this locality." 

Nine species are enumerated, with the localities in which they were taken, the two follow- 
ing being described : 

Page. 

Cassiopea frondosa Lam 398 

Abijla trigona Q. & G., pi. xx 399 

J. Walter Fewkes. List of Mediisw from near Point Barrow. 

llepurtof the Expedition to Point Barrow, Alaxka (1882-83), pp. 163-165. 
See also under John Murdoch. (Part iv, Natural History.) 

F. IjYNWood Garrison. The microscopic structure of iron and steel. 

Transactions Am. Inntitute Mining Engineers, 1885-'86, xiv, pp. 64-75. 10 figures. 
Description of photographs of microscopic sections of iron and steel, copies of which have 
been presented to the Museum. 

TriEODORE N. Gill. Tiie chief characteristics of the North American fish fauna.. 

Forest and Stream, xxv. No. 8, Sept. 17, 188.5, p. It9; also in Trans. Am. Fish. Soc, 1885, p. 69. 



682 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

F. Du Cane Godman aud O. Salvin. Biohujia Centrali- Americana, Aves. Vol. i, 

pp. 345-392. 

Three parts relating to oruitholos.V wore issued (luriu>; the year 1885-'86, treating of a part 
of the Fringillidce. References to Museum ,speoimeus are very frequent throughout this great 
and important work, which is being issued in parts, and is not yet completed. 

G. Brown Goode. A brief biography of the Halibut. 

American Naturalist, xix, No. 10, Oct. 1885, pp. 953-9G9. Also as a separate 

G. Brown Goode. The Beginnings | of | Natural History | in | America. | — | An 
address delivered at the Sixth Anniversary meeting of the Biological Society j of 
Washington. | — | By | G. Brovru Goode, | President of the Society. | — | From the 
proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, Volume iii, 1884-1886. | — | 
Washington : ( Printed for the Society. | lSri6. 
8vo. pp. 35-105. 

A discussion of the work of the earliest naturalists and explorers, and of the origin of scien 
tiflc institutions in America. 

G. Brown Goode. The care of pamphlets. 

Science, vi, Oct. 16, 1885, No. 141, p. 337. Abstract in BiM. Phil. Soc, 1885, p. 29. 

G. Brown Goode and Tarleton H. Bran. Description of Leptophidiiim cennnum 
and L. marmoratum, new fishes from deep water off the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. 
Froc. V. S. Nat. Mus., vni, Sept. 17, 1885, pp. 422-424. 

G. Brown Goode aud Tarleton H. Bean. Descriptions of new fishes obtained by 
the U. S. Fish Commission, mainly from deep water off the Atlantic and Gulf 
coasts. 

Froc. XJ. S. Nat. Mus., vni, Oct. 19 and 20, 1885, p. 589. 

Aphoristia diomedeana, A.pusilla, Hemirhomhus fimhriatus, Citharichthys vcntralis, Etropus 
rirnosus, Macrurus caribbceus, M. occa, Coryphcenoides sulcatus, Malacocephalus occidcntalis, 
Bathygadus cavernosus, B. macrops, B. loni/ifdis, nn. S9.; Neobythites, Porogadus, nn. gg. ; Neo- 
bythites gilli, Porogadxis tniles, un. ss. ; Bathyonus, nom. g. n. ; Bathyonus catena, B. pectoralis, 
nc. ss. 

Asa Gray. Plants from near Point Barrow. 

Report of the expedition to Point Barroiv, Alaska (1882-'83), 1 1885] pp. 191-192. 
See under John Murdoch. (Part iv, Natural History.) 

F. H. H. Guillemard. Report on the Collections of Birds made during the voyage of 
the yacht Marchesa. I. A provisional list of the birds inhabiting the Sulu Archi- 
pelago. 

FrocZool. Soc. of London, 1885, pp. 247-275. 

A specimen of Carpophaga pickeringi was compared with the type in the National Museum 
at the author's request, and the result of Mr. llidgway'a comparison is given on page 270. 

V. Havard. Report on the Flora of Western and Southern Texas. 

Froc. V. S. Nat. Miis. vra, Sept. 23, 28, and 30, 1885, pp. 449-533. 

In the first part of this report a general description of the vegetation of western and south- 
ern Texas is given, the second part being made up of economic notes on the plants known to 
have useful or baneful properties or to bo of value to agricultui-e or industry. The specimens 
treated of in this report have been presented to the National Museum. 

O. P. Hay. Notes on a collection from Florida, with descrijitions of new or little- 
known species. 

Froc. TJ. 8. Nat. Mus., vni, Sept. 30, 1885, p. 552. 
Etheostoma davisoni, Zygonectes aura guttaus, nn. s. 

H. W. Hexshaw. — The Gulls of the Californian Coast. 
The Auk, u, July, 1885, pp. 231, 232. 

RoMYN Hitchcock [Editor]. The American Monthly Microscopical Journal. 
Current numbers, vi. July, 1885, to vn, Jitne, 1886 (inch), Nos. 67-78. 

A iournal devoted to the interests of practical mioroscopists, containing information con 
cerning methods of work, formula}, notes, etc., with contributed articles and reviews. 
RoMYN Hitchcock. Provisional Key to the Classification n( AJgw of Fresh Water. 
The Am. Monthly Mier. Journ., vi, July, 1885, pp. 129-130; Sept., 188.^, pp. 170-174 ; Dec, 1885, 
pp. 231-233; vn, Feb., 1886, pp. 30-31; Mar., 1886, pp. 50-53 ; May, 1886, pp. 9.5-97. 
A series of continued articles. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 683 

KoMVx Hitchcock. Studios of Anuchw. (Abstract.) 
The Am. Monthly Micr.Jcntrii., vi, July, 1885, pp. 135-i;i6. 

KoMYxV Hitchcock. Manipulations of the Microscope. (Review.) 

The Am. Monthly Micr. J oiirn., vi, July, 18Sj, p. 140. 
Ko.AiYX Hitchcock. Co-aiwgntAow oi Rhahdonema. (Al)stract.) 

The Am. Monthly Micr. Journ., vi, Aug., 1885, pp. ISl-l.'i'i. 

ivOMYX Hitchcock. Microscopical Exhibitions. 

The Am. Monthly Micr. Journ., VI, Aug., 1885, pp. 158-150. 

RoMYN Hitchcock. Optical Arrangemcuts for Photo-inicrograpliy and Remarks on 
Magnitication. 

The Am. Monthly Micr. Journ., VI, Sept., 1885, pp. 1G8-170. 

Also an abstract in Proc. Am. Ass. Adv. Sci., xxxiv, Aug., 18S5, pp. SSfi-.'iSO. 

Head (by Dr. H. G. Buyer) .it the meeting of the A. A. A. S., Ann Arbor, 1885. 

RoMYN Hitchcock. Poisonous Dried Beef. 

The Am. Monthly Micr. Journ., vi, Sept., 1885, pp. 176-177. 
RoMYN Hitchcock. Testing objectives. 

The Am. Monthly Micr. Journ., vi, Sept., 1885. pp. 177-178. 

RoMYN Hitchcock. Photo-micrography. 

The Am. Monthly Micr. Journ.., vi, Xov., 1885, pp. 201-20.3 ; Deo., 1.885, pp. 221-227 ; vn, Jan. 
1886, pp. 5-10; Mar., 1886, pp. 48-50 ; Apr., 1886, pp. 67-70 ; May, 1880, pp. 92-95. 
A series of continued articles. 

ROMY'N Hitchcock. The Red Snow. 

The Am. Monthly Micr. Journ., vi, Dec, 1885, pp. 221-224. 

Read before the Biological Society of Washington December 12, 1885. 
Ro.MYX Hitchcock. Fixing Arranged Diatoms and Sections. 

The Am. Monthly Micr. Journ., vi, Dec, 1885, p. 233. 
Ro.MYX Hitchcock. The Striie of Diatoms on the Moller Probe-Platto. 

The Am.. Monthly Micr. Journ., vi, Dec, 1885, p. 234. 
RoMYX Hitchcock. Microscopical Societies. 

The Am. Monthly Micr. Journ., vi, Dec, 1885, pp. 237-239. 
RoMYX Hitchcock. A New Mounting Medium of Higii Refractive Index. 

The Am. Monthly Micr. Journ., vii, Jan., 1886, pp. 3-4. 
RoMY'x Hitchcock. Note on the Spencer-Harrison controversy. 

The Ain. Monthly Micr. Journ., vu, Jan., 1886, pp. 18-19. 
RoMYX Hitchcock. Note on Dr. T. B. Redding's article: "The Molecular Thooi-y of 
Sound" in the Physio-Medical .Journal. 

The Am. Monthly Micr. Journ., vn, Feb., 1886, p. 38. 

RoMYN Hitchcock. The limits of resolution. (Abstract.) 
The Am. Monthly Micr. Journ., vn, Feb., 1886, pp. 35-36. 

RoMY'X Hitchcock. Mounting Media. 

The Am. Monthly Micr. Journ., vn, Apr., 1886, p. 74. 

ROMYX Hitchcock. Investigation of Microbes. 

The Am. Monthly Micr. Journ., vii, Apr., 1886, pp. 71-76. 
E. B. Hodge. The trout of Sunapec Lake. 

Forest and Stream, xxvi, 7, Mar. 11, 1886, p. 129, 
E. B. HoDGK. The Sunapee trout. 

Forest and Stream, XXVI, 10, Apr. 1, 1886, p. 185. 

Jacou R. Hutchinsox. The trout of Suuai)ec Lake. 
Forest and Stream, xxvi, 18, Apr. 22, 1886, p. 247. 

David S. Jouoax. Channel Cattish, Icfalnrns pu)i,(:lal.H.s. Rafiuesque. 
Forest and Stream, xxv, 1, July 30, 1885, p. 9. 

David S. .Jordan. Notes on fishes observed in Lake Snixnior. 
Hull. U. Fish Com., Aug. 11, 1885, pp. 191-192. 

David S. .Jordan. A list of the fi.shes kriowti from tiie Pacilie coast of Tropical 
America, from the Tropic; of Cancer to Panama. 
Proe. XT. S.Nat. Mils., vin, Sept. 2, 1885, p. 361. 



684 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

David S. Jordan. Note on some Linnseaii names of American fishes. 

Proc. U. S. Nat.Mus., viii. Sept. 2, 1885, p. 394. 
J. H. Kidder. Memorandum on water residues fiomr.od-batcbing station at Wood's 
Holl. 

Bull. IT. S. Fish Com., V, Sept. 15, 1885, p.-357. 

George F. Kunz. The gems of the National Museum. 

The Fnpnlar Science MontMy, xxvni, 168, April, 1886, pp. 823-8:i0. 

Published also as a separate. Kevised and extended by W. S. Ye.ates in Part in, of this re- 
port. 
George N. Lawrence. A list of a few species of birds new to the fauna of Guade- 
loupe, West Indies, with a descriiition of a new species of Ccryle. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vni, Xov. 3 and Dec. 7. 1885, pp. 621-625. 
Female type of Geryle stictipennis sp. nov. in the National Museum. 

George N. Lawrence. Descriptions of new species of birds of the family Colnm- 
bidse. 

TJie Auk, 11, Oct., 1885, pp. 357-359. 
■ Zenatda rubripes sp. nov., described from type in the National Museum. 

George N. Lawrence. Characters of two supposed new species of birds from 
Yucatan. 

Annals Neiv York Acad. Sci., in, No. 9, pp. 273-274. 
Polioptila albiventrig and Ohcetura peregrinator. 

Frederic A. Lucas. Notes on the preparation of rough skeletons. 
Proc. F. S. Nat. Mus., viii, 1885, pp. 679-686. 
Printed also as Circular 33, U. S. Nat. Museum. 

John Belknap Marcou. A list of the Mesozoic and Cenozoic types in the collec- 
tions of the U. S. National Museum. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., viii, Aug. 6 and 7 and Sept. 2, 1885, pp. 290-344. 
John Belknap Marcou. Department of the Interior: | U.S. National Museum. | — 
I Bulletin | of the | United States National Museum. | No. 30. | Bibliographies of 
American Naturalists. | in.* Publications relating to fossil invertebrates. | By | 
John Belknap Marcou. | — | Washington: | Government Printing Office. | 1885. 
8vo. pp. 1-333. 

John Belknap Marcou. A review of the progress of North American invertebrate 
palaeontology for 1884. 

Smithsonian Report for 1884 (1885), pp. 563-582. 
Otis T. Mason. The use of the throwing-stick by Eskimo. 

Forest and Stream, xxv, 6, Sept. 3, 188.5, pp. 109-110. 
Otis T. Mason. The Chaclacayo trephined skull. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vni, Sept. 14, 1885, pp. 410-4 12. One plate. 

Otis T. Mason. Authrojiology. 

Smithsonian Reportfor 1884 (1885), pp. 677-717. 
Otis T. Mason. The Guesde collection of antiquities in Pointe-^-Pitre, Guadaloupe, 
West Indies. 

Smithsonian Report, 1884 (1885), pp. 731-837. 215 figs. 

Otis T. Mason. Anthropological notes. 

Am^erican Naturalist, Vol. xis, 7-12, 1885. 

Metallurgy among savages, p. 729. The Fmnlcfort crauiometric agreement, p. 730. Ethnog- 
raphy of Guatemala, p. 731. Mort.ality in Washington, p. 826. The Davenport elephant pipes, 
p. 827. Anthropological publications, p. 912. The Fuegians, p. 915. The eighth volume of the 
Tenth Census, p. 1018. Anthropological collectors, p. 1019. PUling's Bibliography, p. 1129. 
The Mound Builders and the Historic Indians, p. 1130. The natives of New Guinea, p. 1131. 
Dr. Kau's prehistoric fishing, p. 1243. 

American Naturalist, Vol. XX, 1-6, 1886. 

Stone implements, p. 85. Polynesia, p. 86. The Anthropological Society of Washington, p. 
195. Ethnology of Borneo, p. 19G. The Eskimo at Point Barrow, p. 197. The blow tube in the 

* Parts I and ii already puhlialied. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 685 

Otis T. Mason. Antbropological notes — Continued. 

United States, p. 198. Physical educatiou of children, p. 199. Aunnal Report of the Bureau 
of Ethnology, p. 309. The crania of the negroes, p. 312. Maori Phanu.acopia, p. 401. The 
LaplanikTS, p. 402. Relationships betwtsen the Eskimo tribes, p. 403. Archa-'ological maps, p. 
404. The races of man, p. 404. The so-caUed tleformed crania, pp. 481-4^7. Corca, p. 5(ii). The 
relation of anthropology to the science of mind, p. 570. Jewish ability, p. 572. Aborijiinal 
baking-pans, p. 473. War-clubs and digging-sticks, p. 574. 

Fred Mather. A new native trout. 

Forest and Stream, xxv, 2.5, Jan. 14. 188G, p. 481. 
Salvelinus oquassa from Sunapoe Lake, New Hampshire. 

Fked Mather {editor). Sunapee trout. 

Forest and Stream, xxvi, 9, Mar. 25, 188C, p. 169. 

Seth E. Meek and Barton W. Evermann. A review of tlie American species of the 
genus Gerres. 

Proe. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1886, pp. 233-252. 

C. Hart Merriam. Description of a new subspecies of the comuiou eastern cliii)- 
munk. 

Amer. Nat., xx, No. 3, March, 1886, pp. 236-242 (also as a separate). 

C. Hart Merriam. Descriptiouof a new species of Aplodontia, from California. 

Annals of the New York Acad. ScL, ni, No. 10, May, 1886, pp. 312-328, plates xix-xx. 
Read March' 15, 1886. 
(Also as a separate. May, 1886. ) 
George P. Merrill. Notes on the mineralogy and lithology of the District of Co- 
lumbia. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vni, Sept. 2, 1885, pp. 351-353. 

A brief description of the mineials found ill the water-works tunnel of this city, and which 
had not before been recognized from this locality. Nine species are described. 

George P. Merrill. Building and ornamental stones of the United States. 
The Popular Science Monthly, xxvni, 160, Aug., 1885, pp. 520-532. 

A brief notice of the various kinds and amounts of stone quarries for buUding and orua- 
mental purposes in tlie United States. 

John Murdoch. (Part iv, Natural History.) 

Report of the Expedition to Point Barrow, Alaska, 1882-'83, pp. 89-200. Eivo plates. 
This report on the natui-al history of the Point Barrow Expedition (1882-'83) gives tiio re- 
sults of the work of the author as naturalist of the expedition and of others associated with 
him, and consists of tlie following divisions: 
I. Mammals, pp. 92-103. 
II. Birds, pp. 104-128. Plates, 2. 

III. Fishes, pp. 129-132. 

IV. lusect.s, pp. 133-135. 

V. Marine invertebrates, exclusive of moUusks, pp. 136-176. Plates, 2. 
VI. Mollusks, pp. ] 77-184. One plate. 

VII. Collecting localities and dredging stations, pp. 185-190. 
VIII. Plants, pp. 191-192. 

Appendix, pp. 193-260. 
Parts I, II, in, vn, the introduction and the appendix, the introduction to iv (p. 133), and 
all of V except pp. 163-105, were written by Mr. Murdoch ; tlie reniain<kr of Part IV (pp. 134-- 
135) was written by Prof. C.V. Ililey; the remainder of Part V, list of medusa) from near 
Point Barrow (pp. 163-165), by Mr. J. Walter Fewkes; Part vi, by Mr. W. H. Ball, and Part 
vn, by Prof. Asa Gray. 

John Murdoch. Insect-collecting at Point Barrow, Arctic Alaska. (Abstract.) 

Proc. Eat. Soc, of Washington, February 20, 1884, to December 3, 1885, i. No. 1, 1886, pp. 
9-10. 

Abstract of paper read before the Ent. Soc. of Washington, April 3, 1884. 
WiLLARD Nye, jr. Notes on octopus, llyiug-fish, etc., taken during the Albatross 
cruise in January, 1884. 

BuU. U. S.Fish Oom., v, pp. 189-190. 



686 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

CiiAKLES K. Orcutt aud William Healey Dall. Notes ou the mollusks of the vi- 
cinity of Sau Diego, Cal., and Todos Santos Bay, Lower California, by Cliarles 
R. Orcutt, with comments by W. H. Dall. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., viii, Sept. BO, 1885, pp. 534-552, plate xxiv. 

This paper comprises a list of the species, witli their statious, habits, etc., by Mr. Orcutt, 
with systematic notes on various species, descriptious of Lawellaria dierjoensis, Caecum call- 
fornieum and G.orcutti, Leptothyra var. lurida and Platidia vav. radiata Dall, with an account 
of the marsupium in the female Milneria minima Dall, and the light which this discovery 
throws on the formation of the more specialized marsupium of Thecalia concamerata Adau s. 
See under William Healey Dall. 

William Palmer. Occurrence oi Eelminthophila Ivucobronchialis in Virginia. 
The Auk, II, July 1885, p. 304. 

Announces the capture of this species near Fort Myer. The specimen was pieseuted to 
the Museum by the author. 

Emory D. Potter. The Pike family. 

Forest and Stream, sxv, No. 9, Sept. 24, 1885, p. 168. 

Edward Potts. Fresh-water Sponges from Mexico. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., viii, Oct. 19, 1885, pp. 587-589. One figure. 

Description of Myenia plumosa Carter, var. Palmieri Potts. Obtained by Dr. Edward I'almer 
along the banks of the Colorado liiver, near Terdo, .Sonora, iu northwestern Mexico. The 
specimens are preserved in the Kational Museum. 

John D. Quackenbos. The new trout of Sunapee Lake. 
Forest and Stream, xxv, No. 8, Mar. 18, 1886, p. 149. 

John D. Quackenbos. The trout of Sunapee Lake. 
Forest and Stream, xxvi, No. 13, Apr. 22, 1886, p. 247. 

Richard Rathbun. An edible clam introduced on the Atlantic coast. 

Science, vi. No. 128, July 17, 1885, p. 53. 

Notice of the planting at the Wood's Holl station of the U. S. Fish Commission of eight hun- 
dred living specimens of Tapes statninea, known as the "little round clam," obtained at Hen- 
derson's Bay, Puget Sound, near Tacoma, Washington Ton-itory. 

KiCHARD Rathbun. A crab invasion. 

Science, vi, No. 131, Aug. 14, 1885, p. 135. 

Notice of the sudden appearance, on the sea-shore, at Cape San Antonio, western Cuba, of 
countless myriads of young Grapsoid crabs, probably belonging to the genus Sesarma. 

Richard Rathbun. Report upon the Echini collected by the U. S. Fish Commission 
steamer Albatross iu the Gulf of Mexico, from January to March, 1885. 
Proc. U.S.Nat. Mus., viii, Nov. 3, 1885, pp. 606-620. 

Contains a " Notice of the Cruise of 1885," " List of the stations at which Echini were col- 
lected in 1885," "Account of the species of. Echini obtained in 1885," and "Lists of the spe- 
cies obtained ^^ 1884 and 1885, arranged according to localities." Brief notes are given with 
many of the species. The number of species collected in 1885 was thirty-one, the total num- 
ber for 1884 and 1885 combined, forty. These were obtained in various depths from the litto- 
ral zone to to 1,639 fathoms. 

SiCHARD Rathbun. Notice of a collection of Stalked Crinoids made by the steamer 
Albatross in the Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean Sea, 1884 and 1885. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., viii, Dec. 7, 1885, pp. 628-635. 
' Four species are recorded : Rhizoerinus Rawsoni, Pentacrinus decorus, P. Mulleri, and P. 

asterius. A few notes are given lespecting each of the species, a few variations are described, 
and lists are given of all the specimens collected. 

Richard Rathbun. Notes on Lobster Culture. 

Bull. TT. S. Fish Com., VI, Feb. 8, 1886, pp. 17-32. 

Contains an account of the experiments made at the Wood's Holl station of the U. S. Fish Com- 
mission during the summer of 1885, to ascertain the best method of handling lobster eggs for 
the purposes of artificial lobster-culture. The following topics are akso discussed : " Necessity 
of attempting the artificial propagation of lobsters," "Kange and migrations of lobsters," 
"Spawning season and habits, developments, aud rate of growth," "Experiments previously 
made in lobster-culture," " Transplanting of lobsters," 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUST^UM. 687 

KoBKKT EiDGWAY. A Eeview of the Americiiii GoUlun Wiiiblors. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vill, Siipt. 2, 1885, pp. 348-350. 

A synoptical table is given of tho known species and subspecies, of which two are described 
aa new, viz: Dendruica petechia rufivcHex, from Cozuiuel, Yucatan, and D. hryanti castanei- 
ceps, fi'oiu Lower California. 

KoiJEHT RiDGWAY. Soiue Euieudcd Names of North Americiin Birds. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., viii, Sept. 2, 1885, pp. 354-356. 

A li.st of names which require emendation from the stand-point of the now code of noinencla- 
ture adopted by the American OruitholoKists ' Union, and liero published " in order that 
tho first known use " of the couibiuatious of generic and specilic names ado])tt'd "may bo 
cited among tho references whicli the committee [having charge of the preparation of tho 
li.st] has decided to giro under each species." 

KoBERT KiDGWAY. Description of au apparently uew species of Dromococcyx from 
Britisli Guiaua. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., viii, Sept. 3, 1885, p. 559. 
Dromococcyx gracilis, sp. nov. 
KoBEHT RiDGWAY. Catalogue of a Collectiou of Birds made on the Island of Cozu- 
mel, Yitcatau, by tho Naturalists of the U. S. Fish Commissiou steamer Alhalross, 
Capt. Z. L. Tauuer, commander. 

Proc. TJ. S. Nat. Mus., viii, Sept. 30, Oct. 17 and Oct. 19, 1885, pp. 560-583. 

A full report upon the collection made by tlie natviralifsts of the Albatross during their vi.sit to 
Cozuniel, January 22 to 29, 1885. It comprises four hundred and twentyuiue specimens re- 
presenting fifty-seven species, but the report also includes six other species known to inhabit 
tlie island. In addition to the new species previously described, a uew species of Woodpecker 
is characterized, viz : Centurus rubriventris pygmceus. A faunal summary in tal)ula)' form, 
showing the complicated relationships of tho Cozumel bird fauna, concludes the article. 

Robert Ridgway. Description of a ue\A' Cardinal Grosbeak from Arizona. 

The Auk, II, Oct., 1885, pp. 343-3-15. 
Cardinalis cardinalis superb us. 
Subsp. nov. TjT)e, No. 98942, D. S. Nat. Mus. 

Robert Ridgway. Helminthophila leucobroncliiaUs. 
The Auk, II, Oct. 1885, pp. 359-363. 

Explains the non-typical specimens of the bird in question by assuniing H. Icucobrunchialis 
typicus to be a valid species and not a hybrid, but exlensively hybridizing with its allies. 

Robert Ridgway. Od Junco cinereus Swains., and its geographical races. 
The Auk, II, Oct., 1885, pp. 363-364. 

Characterizes three forms and describes as uew J. cinereus paUiatvs, from southern Ari- 
zona. Type, No. 68817, U. S. Nat. Mus. 

Robert Ridgway. A New Petrel for North America. 
The Atik, U, Oct., 1885, pp. 386-387. 
Pelagodroma marina (Lath.). 

Captured on board the U. S. I'ish Commission steamer Albatross in latitude 40^^ 34' 18" north, 
66° 09' west longitude. 

Robert Ridgway. On the proper name for the Prairie Hen. 

The Auk, in, Jan., 1886, pp. 132-133. 

Thinks that it should stand as Tympaniichiisamericanus (Reicheub.). 
Robert Riixjway. The Scissor-tailed Flycatcher, Milvulm forjicatm, at Key West. 

The Auk, in, 1886, Jan., p. 134. 

U. S. Nat. Mus. No. 102444, collected by the naturalists of the Fisli Cominissidii steamer 
Albatross. 

Robert Ridgway. The vernacular name o( riccirophertax hyperhoreiis. 

The Auk, in, Jan., 1886, p. 13,'). 

Propo.ses to retain the name originally given to it, viz, " McKay's Snowflake." 
Robert Ridgway. Water birds of North America. A Few Corrections Rectified. 

The Auk, in, April, 1880, pp. 206-268. 

A reply to a paper by Dr. J. G. Cooper in a previous number of The Auk. 



688 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

EOBEUT RiDGWAY. THnga damacensis (Horsf.) iu Alaska, a Sandpiper uew to the 
Nortli Americau Fauna. 

The Auk, Ui, April, 1886, p. 275. 
Robert RiDGWAY. Discovery of the Breeding Place of McKay's Snowliake, Plectro- 
;phenax hyperboreiis. 

The Auk, in, April, 1886, pp. 276, 277. 

The species was found breeding on Hall Island, Bering Sea, by Mr. Charlea H. Townsend. 

Robert Ridgway. Ou two Abnormally-colored Specimens of the Bluebird : Sialia 

sialis. 

The Auk, III, April, 1886, pp. 282, 283. 

Both in the Natioual Museum. One has the blue color pervading part of the lower surface ; 
the other has the blue of the back the same shade as S. azurea. 
Robert Ridgway, The Fish Commission Steamer Albatross, etc. 
The Auk, III, April, 18S6, pp. 286, 287. 

Note in reference to the departure of the Albatross and proposed work of the naturalists ac- 
companying the vessel. 
Robert Ridgway. Arizona Quail. 

Forest and, Stream, xxv, 25, Jan. 14, 1886, p. 484. 

A reply to Herbert Brown's article in a previous number in regard to Colinus ridgwayi and 
G. graysoni, with a " key " to the characters of the species mentioned, and of O. virginianug 
texanus. (See under Brown, Herbert). 
Robert Ridgway. [Is the Dodo an Extinct Bird ?] 
Science, vn, No. 160, Feb. 26, 1886, p. 190. 

A reply to Dr. R.W.Shufeldt's question in a previous number showing that the supposed 
Dodo in the Samoan Islands is only Diduneulus strigirostris. 
Robert Ridgway. Letter to Dr. B. H. Warren, in reply to inquiries concerning the 
food habits of Hawks and Owls. 

Daily Local News (West Chester, Pa.), March 5, 1886. 
Reprinted in Forest and Stream, xxvi, 9, March 25, 1886, p. 164. 

Section 1, page 141 of the Laws of Pennsylvania for 1885 offers a bounty for the destruction of 

hawks and owls. The Microscopical Society of West Chester in their endeavor to have the 

act repealed asked the opinion of several ornithologists, the author replying that he regards the 

majority of hawks and owls as " very decidedly beneficial to man." 

Charles V. Riley.- Report of the Entomologist, Charles V. Riley, M. A., Ph. D., 

for 1885. 

lieport of the Department of Agriculture, 1885 : pp. 7—1, 137, 8—2, 1 map, 9 plates. 

Separate author's ed. of " lieport of the Entomologist" by Entomologist of (United States) 
Department of Agriculture, 1885 ; Report (United States) Commissioner of Agriculture for 
1885, pp. 207-343, pp. 1,2, map 1, pp. 1-9, with addition of t. p. cover, t. p. (p. 1), table of con- 
tents (pp. 3-7), corrigenda (p. 1), general index (pp. 1-6), and plant index (pp. 7, 8). 

Contains divisions and sub-chapters, with the titles given below : Introduction, pp. 207-213; 
silk culture, pp. 214-228, pis. 2-4; miscellaneous insects, pp. 228, 289, map 1, pis. 1, 5-8 ; destructive 
locusts or "grasshoppers,"' pp. 228-233, pi. 8 ; the periodical Cicada (Cicada septendecim L. 
and race tredecim Riley) , pp. 233-258, map 1, pis. I, 5, 6, fig. 1 ; the Leather beetle or toothed Der- 
mestes (Dermesles vulpinus, Fabr.), pp. 258-264, pi. 6, fig. 2 ; the Garden web-worm (Eurycreon 
rantalis, Guen.), pp. 265-270, pi. 6, fig. 3; the Dark-sided cut-worm {\a,vva,oi Agrotis messoria, 
Harr.), pp. 270-275, pi. 7. fig. 1 ; the strawberry weevil (Anthonom,us musculus Say), pp. 270-282, 
pi. 7, figs. 5, 6; the pear midge or pear diplosis (Diplosis nigra 0), Meigen), pp. 283-289, pi. 7, figs. 
2, 3, 4 ; reports of agents, pp. 289-343, pi. 9 ; D. W. Coquillett, report on the locusts of the San 
Joaquin Valley, California, pp. 289-303; Lawrence Bruner, report on the abundance of the 
Rocky Mountain locust in 1885, pp. 303-307; Albert Koebole, notes on locusts at and about Fol- 
som, Cal.,pp. 308-311; F. M. Webster, insects affecting fall wheat, pp. 311-319 ; Dr. A. S.Pack- 
ard, special agent, third report ou the causes of destruction of the evergreen and other forest 
trees in northern New England, pp. 319-333, pi. 9; Nelson W. McLain, report on experiments 
in apiculture, pp. 333-343. 

Charles V. Riley. — Silk culture. 

Report of the Entomologist, Department of Agriculture, 1885 : pp. 214-228 (8-22) ; plates 2-4. 

General work of the Entomological Division in developing silk culture ; distribution of mul- 
berry trees and silk-worm eggs ; home-raised ws. imported eggs; establishing of filatures; cost 
of producing reeled silk ; work on the Pacific coast; precautions necessary in the production 
of pure silk- worm eggs and in properly wintering them ; diseases of the silk-worm— flaccid ity. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 689 

CllAKLKS V. ElLEY. Silk culture — Continued. 

pebriue ; wintoriuj; the ej;g.s ; flf^s. ofsilk-worma sliowiug effect of flaccidity, anatomy of silk- 
worm, silk-worms with pobriuous spots, chain ft-rment of tiaccidity, corpuscules of p6brine, 
cell for efigUiying, method of clampint; bags, constricted cocoon of fine texture, non-con- 
stricted cocoon of coarse texture. 

The article, taken from advance sheets from the fourth report V. S. Entomological Commis- 
sion, discusses the question of the nomenclature of the Noctuid, popularly known as the Cot- 
ton-worm moth. I'rom a study of Huebner's tigures and description, and an inspection of the 
Sommer collection in Dresden, the conclusion is reached that Huebner's specific name, argillacea, 
must be rejected and Say's name, xijlina, retained. 

Charles V. Riley. Notes ou tlie Principal Injurious Insects of the year. 

Entomologica Atwiricana, I, No. 9, 1885, pp. 176, 177. 

The paper was read before the entomological club of the Am. Ass. Adv. Sci., Ann Arbor 
meeting, August, 1885, and mentions the appearance, in destructive numbers, of the following 
insects: Pulvinariainnimerabilin, A'jrotls fennica, A. messoria, Anthonoimis munculug, J'Jiirij- 
creon rantalis, Cicada seplendccitn, Cecidomyia destructor, Melanoplus devastator, M. spretun, 
and Camnula pellucida. 

Charles V. Riley. The Imported Ehn-leaf beetle. 

Harper's Weekly, xxix, July 18, 1885, p. 463. 

A critical review of the publications on the parasites of the Hessian Fly, and detailed descrip- 
tions, with figures and biological notes, of the following species of Chalcidid;e which have been 
bred from the larvaj or pupos of Cecidomyia dcnirnctor: Merisus destructor (Say), male and 
female, pi. 23, fig. 1; Merisus (Homoporus) suhapterus, n. sp., male and female, pi. 23, fig. 2; 
Tetrastichus productus, n. sp., male and female, pi. 23, fig. 5. JEupelmus allynii (French) is 
proven to be a parasite of the Hessian fly and both sexes figured (pi. 23, tigs. 3, 4). Criticism 
of Cook's and Packard's observations on Platygastcr error Fitch (? Packard) and figure of the 
male (pi. 23, fig. 6). 

Charles V. Riley. Destructive insects of the year. 

Rural New Yorker, XLiv, July 11, 1885, p. 464. 

Discusses the following species of insects which did much injury during the year 1885: The 
Onion Cut-worm (larva of Agrotis messoria) in Orange County, N. Y., mode of its work ou young 
onion plants, reference to remedies; the strawberry weevil (Anthouomus niusculus) on Stateu 
Island and in Michigan, nature of injury done ; larva of Eurycreon raiitalis, enumeration of 
localities and crops most suffering from it. 

Charles V. Riley. Pests of the Strawberry. 
Bural New Yorker, XLiv, July 18, 1885, p. 484. 

Keply to letter of J. H. J., Jackson, Kans., and determination of the following strawberry in- 
sects : Larvaof Agrotis tricosa ; larva of either Phoxopteris fragarice or Eccopsis permundana ; 
larva of Emphytus inaculatus ; gives the most available remedy for each of these pest.s. 

Charles V. Riley. The Clyclone Nozzle. 

Rural New Yorker, XLiv, Aug. 22, 1885, p. 567. 

The cyclone nozzle can not be justly said to be invented by any one individual ; it ia a de- 
velopment of one of the practical outgrowths of the writer's work for the Government. 

Charles V. Riley. A new Remedy against the Destructive Locust. 
Rural New Yorker, XLiv, Aug. 29, 1885, p. 577. 

Describes the method successfully used in California for de.stroyiug locusts by using baits 
consisting of arsenic, bran, sugar, and water. 

Charles V. Riley. Enemies of the Black Walnut and Willow. 

Rural New Yorker, WAV, Sept. 19, 1885, p. 632. 

Koply to a letter regarding a caterpillar as injurious to walnut, and another species as in- 
jurious to willow. The former is the laiva of Dat.ana ininistra, the hitter the larva of Cimbcx 
amcricana. Gives a summary of the natural history of both insects as well as directions for 
their destruction. 

Charles V. Riley. Tiie Mildews of the Grape-vine. An eflectual remedy for Pe- 
ronospora. 

Rural New Yorker, XLV , Jan. IG and Feb. 6, 1886, pp. 72 and 87. Two illustrations. (Also 
author's separate, one folio sheet). 

The development and structure of the two most important fungi attacking the grape-vine, 
viz, the Powdery grape-vino mildew {Uncinida spiralis) imd the Downy grape-vine mildew 
(Peronogpora viticola) are treated of, with a full discussion of the remedies and prophylactics. 

H. Mis. 170, i)t. 2 44 



690 EEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Charles V. Riley. Premature api>earauce of the Periodical Cicada. 
Science, VI, JTo. 126, July 3, 1885, pp. 3, 4. 

Keply to Prof. Lester F. "Ward's com munication to Science (vol. v, p. 476/ ; reasons for re- 
jecting Professor Ward's testimony regarding a supposed appearance of the Cicada septvndccim 
iu October. 

Charles V. Eiley. Periodical Cicada in Massachusetts. 
Science, vi, No. 126, July 3, 1885, p. 4. 

Request for information regarding the presence or absence of the septendecim brood of the 
Periodical Cicada of the year 1885 in southeastern Massachusetts. 

Ciiaules v. Riley. The Song-uotes of the Periodical Cicada. 

Science, vi, JSTo. 138, Sept. 25, 1885. Also as a reprint in The Kansas Gity Review vs., Oct., 
liS85, pp. 173-175. 

With an additional paragraph on the mechanism of the stridulatory organs in the Cicada 
septendecim. 

Also as an abstract in Proc. Am. Ass. Adv. Sci., xxxiv, Aug., 1885, pp. 330-332. (Ann 
Arbor meeting). 

Author's separate cojjies published May, 1886. 

Description of the pr evalent notes of the noise produced by the Cicada septendecim L. : First- 
the phar-r-r-r-r-oah note, most often heard during the early maturity of the male ; secondly, the 
" screech," the prevailing note in the height of the season ; thirdly, the " intermittent, chirp 
ing " sound. 

Charles V. Riley. A carnivorous Butterfly larva. 

Science, vn. No. 169, April 30,1886, p. 394. Also in Am. Nat., xx. No. 6, June, 1886, pp. 
556-557. 

Abstract of paper read before the Biological Society of Washington, February 20, 1886. 

Gives a summary of the previous records of the food-plants of Fenesica tarquinius, and proves 
from observations made by Theo. Pergande that the larva feeds upon dili'orent species of plant- 
lice (Aphididas). 

Charles V. Riley. Annual address, as president of the Entomological Society of 
Washington. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. of Washington : I, No. 1, pp. 17-27. 
Charles V. Riley. Abstracts of remarks made before the Entomological Society 
of Washington, and published in its Proceedings. 

Proc. Ent. Soc. of Washington : I No. 1 (February 29, 1884, to December 3, 1885), 1886. 
The following are the titles : 

On the phytophagic habits of the genus Isosoma, p. 15. 

Description of anew species of Acrobasis (A. vaccinii), known iu the larva state as "the 
Cranberrj' fruit worm," p. 15. 
Criticism on a report in Psyche regarding the habit of Tiphia and Rhipiphorus, p. 15. 
On the larva of Dipterous genus Scenopinus, p. 17. 
Observations on tue Periodical Cicada, pp. 29-30. 

On food-habits of Walshia amorphella, and on the synonymy of Euryptychia saligneana, 'p. 
30. 
On Sphida obliquata Gr. & B. being synonymous with Arzama densa Walk., p. 30. 

Charles V. Riley. The Periodical Cicada. Cicada septendecim L., and race tredecim 
Riley. 

Report of the E7itomologist, Department of Agriculture, 1885,'pp. 233-258 (27-52), yl. 1, 5, and 
fig. 1, pi. 6. 

The seventeen and thirteen-year races of the Cicada and their first discovery ; the two vari- 
eties of the Cicada, their diflerences and specific value; development habit and food of the 
larva ; transformations an d issuing of the imago ; influence of civilization on the appearance 
of the Cicada ; song notes of the Cicada ; variation in time of appeai'ance ; enemies ; the sup- 
posed sting of the Cicada; oviposition; injury to fruit-trees and remedies ; geographical dis- 
tribution and future appearance of all known broods ; influence of climate upon the races and 
experiments in the transfer of eggs ; the Cicada in 1886. 

Charles V. Riley. The Leather-Beetle or Toothed Dermcstes. 

Dermestes vulpinus, Fabr. 

Report of the Entomologist, Department of Agriculture, 1885, pp. 258-264 (52-58) pi. vi, fig. 2 

Injury to boots and shoes ; history of its occurrence at Saint Louis ; points in habits and 

natural history ; characteristics of the different stages ; litigation growing out of the injury 

caused by the insect ; history of the Savannah case ; remedies and prevention ; description of 

foll-growu larva; figures of egg, larva, pupa, imago, details of larva and imago. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 691 

CuAia.KS V. Riley. Miscelhiuoous insects. 

liepurt of tlm EiUomuloglxt, Department of Ar/ric iiUure,\SS^; pp. 228-289 (22-82); map 1; 
platca 1, 5-8. 

Contains divi.sioiis aud .sub-chapters, with the titles jjiveu below: Destructive Locusts or 
" Grasshoppers, " pp. 228-233 (22-27), pi. 8; the Kocky Mouutain locust, Caloptenus spretus 
Thomas, pp. 228-229 (22-23) ; the California migratory locust, Mclanopltis devastator, Scudder, 
pp. 229-232 (23-26); non-migratory species, pp. 232-233 (20-27); the Periodical Cicada, Cicada 
xeptendeciin, L. and race tredicim, Kiley, pp. 233-258 (27-52), map 1, pi. 1, 5 and fig. 1, pi. 6; the 
Leather-Beetle or Toothed Lcrmestes, DerTiientes vulpinus, i'abr., pj). 258-264 (52-58), pi. 6, tig. 
2 ; the Garden Web-Worm, Eurycreon rantalis, Guen., pp. 265-270 (59-64), pi. 6, fig. 3 ; the 
Dark-sided Cut- Worm, larva of .di/roii* inessoria, Harr., pp. 270-275 (64-69), pi. 7, fig. 1; the 
Strawberry 'Weovil, Anthonoinus musculus, Say, pp. 276-282 (70-76), pi. 7, figs. 6 and 7; the 
Pear midge or Pear diplosis, Diplonis nigra (?), Moigen, pp. 283-289 (77-83), pi. 7, figs. 2, 3 and 4. 

CilAULES V. Riley. Destructive Locusts or " Gnisshoppors." 

Report of the Entomologist, Department of Agriculture, 1885 ; jjp. 228-233 (22-27), pi. 8. 
Appearance of and injury done, in 1885, by Caloptenus spretus, Melanoplas devastator, M. 
allanis, Jf. fem,ur-rubrum; distinguishing characters of the last-named species ; also unusual 
abundance of other non-migratory species. 

Charles V. Riley. The Garden Web Worm. Eurycreon rantalis, Guen. 

Report of the Entomologist, Department of Agriculture, 1885, pp. 265-270 (59-64), pi. 5, fig. 3. 

Great damage done in 1885; general charac t eristics of the different stages; former inju- 
ries, localities of damage in 1835 ; food plants, habits and natural history ; cocoon ; enemies ; 
remedies ; figures of larva, pupa, imago, details of larva and pupa. 

C'liAKLES V. RiLEY". The Dark-sided Cut- Worm. Larva of Agrotifi mesHoria, Harr. 

Report of the Entomologist, Department of Agriculture, 1885, i)p. 270-275 (64-69), pi. 7, fig. 1. 

Injui'y to onions ; habits and natural history ; number of broods ; hibernation ; remedies 
and pievention ; report of John B. Smith ; report of Thomas Bennett ; figures of larva and 
moth. 

CiiAULES V. Riley. The Strawberry Weevil. Antlionomus musculus, Say. 

Reportof Entomologist, Dcpartmcntof Agriculture, 1885, pp. 276-232 (70-76), pi. 7, figs. 5, 6. 
Past history ; injury in 1885 ; Mr. Smith's observations ; diversity of habit in the genus 
Anthonomus; natural history of other species of Anthonomus ; inquilinous species ; species 
having different habits ; remedies; character and synonymy ; description of imago and its vari- 
ations; comparison with A. suturalis, figures of imago aud strawberry plant infested with the 
weevil. 

CuAKLES V. Riley. The Pear Midge or Pear Diplosis. Diplosis nigra (?), Meigeu. 
Report of the Entotnologist, Department of Agriculture, 1885, pp. 283-289 (77-83), pi. 7, figs. 2, 
3,4. 

Decisive steps for eradication recommended ; life hLstory and habits ; one annual genera- 
tion ; dates of issuance of imago ; parasites; remedies; it is probably an introducted species; 
Schmidberger's account of the European pear midge ; Dr. J. Mik's opinion ; descriptions of 
imago, larva and pupa ; classiflcatory value of the genitalia ; figures of larva, pupa, imago, 
details of larva and imago. 

CiiAULES V. Riley. The Rocky Mouutain Locust, Caloptenus spretus, Thomas. 

Report of the Entomologist, Department of Agriculture, 1885, pp. 228-229 (22-23), pi. 8, fig. 6. 

Injury in the Northwest; probabilities for 1886. 
C11AKLE.S V. Riley. The California migratory locust, J^eZano/^^wsdeyas/aior, Scudder. 

Reportof the Entomologist, Department of Agriculture, 1885, pp. 229-232 (22-26), pi. 8, figs 1,5. 

Abundance oi Melanoplas devastator in California in 1885; record of previous years; geo-. 
graphical raugo ; distinguishing characters of the species ; remedies. 

CuAULEiS V. Riley. Non-migratory species (of locusts). 

Report of tlie Entomologist, Department of Agriculture, 1885, pp. 232-233 (20-27). 
Unusual abundance of and injury done, in various parts of the United States, by Melanoplus 
femur- rub rum, Melanoplus differentialis, aud Melanoplus hivittatus. 

Chaules V. RiLEY'. Fourth Report of the United States Entomological Commission, 
being a revised edition of Bulletin No; ;j, and the final report on the cotton worm, 
together with a chapter on the boll worm. By Charles V. Riley, Ph. D. With 
maps and illustratio ns. United States Department of Agriculture (Washington, 
Government Printing Office, IddO), pp. xxxviii, 399, [147]; sixty-four plates and 
forty-five figures iu the text. 



692 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Charles V. Riley. Fourth Report of the U. S. Entomological Commission, etc. — 
Continued. 

Contains divisions and chapters, with the titles given below. Title-pa^e, p. i ; Kesolution 
House of Kepresentatives, p. ii ; Table of Contents, pp. iii-xvi; Letter of Submittal, p. xvii; 
Members of the (U. S. Entomological) Commission, p. xviii ; Preface, pp. xix-xii ; Introduction, 
pp. xxiii-xxxviii ; Chapter i. Classification and Nomenclature — Destructiveness, pp. 1-4; 
Chapter ii, Characters, habits, and natural history, pp. 5-22, figs. 1-8, pi. I; Chapter iii, Past 
history of the cotton worm in the United States, pp. 23-38 ; Chapter iv. The cotton worm in 
other countries, pp. 39-44 ; Chapter v, On the anatomy of Aletia, by Charles Sedgwick Minot 
and Edward Burgess, pp. 44-58, pi. 6-11 ; Chapter vi. The cotton belt, by Prof. Eugene A. 
Smith, pp. 59-80, maps i and ii ; Chapter vii. Terrestrial and meteorological influences affect- 
ing the worm, pp. 81-86; Chapter viii. Natural enemies, pp. 87-119, figs. 10-45; Chapter ix, 
Preventive measures, pp. 120-127; Chapter x. Remedies; means of coping with the insect; 
substances used for its destruction, pp. 128-190 ; Chapter xi. Machinery and devices for the 
destruction of the worm, by Prof. "W. S. Barnard, Ph. D., Assistant, pp. 190-252, pi. xiv-LXl; 
Chapter xii, Machinery and devices for the destruction of the worm (contiuued), pp. 252-309; 
Chapter xiii. Machinery and devices for the destruction of the wor m (concluded), pp. 310-321; 
Chapter xiv, History of the literature and bibliography, pp. 322-344; Chapter xv, Insects 
liable to be mistaken for Aletia, pp. 345-354, pi. ii, figs. 1-6, pi. v, pi. liii; Chapter xvi, The 
Boll "Worm {Heliothis armigera, Hiibner), pp. 355-384, pi. iii-iv; Explanation to plates, pp. 
385-399; appendices, pp. {l)-(92) ; (Introduction, p. (3)) ; Appendix I, Report of H. G. Hub- 
bard, pp. (5)-(]6); Appendix II, Report of Prof. R.W.Jones, pp. (17)-(23); Appendix iii, Re- 
port of J. P. Stelle, pp. (25)-(35) ; Appendix iv, Report of Di-. E. H. Anderson, pp. (37)-(48) ; 
Appendix v. Cotton caterpillars in Brazil, by John C. Branner, pp. (49)-(54) ; Appendix vi, 
Report of Judge William J. Jones, pp. (55)-(57) ; Appendix vii. Reports of consuls and con- 
sular agents on the cotton crop and its enemies in Mexico, Central and South America, and the 
West Indies, pp. (59)-(70) ; Appendix, viii, Answers to circular No. 7, pp. (71)-(92) ; Notes, 
pp. (93)-(121); Index, pp. (l-3)-(147). 

Charles V.Riley. Insects from near Point Barrow. 

Hcport of the expedition to Point Barrow, Alaska (1882-'83), pp. 134-135. 
See under John Murdoch (Part iv. Natural History). 

Charles V.Riley. Water-beetles destroying carp. 

Bull U. S. Fish Oom.,X, August 21, 1885, p. 311. 
Charles V. Riley. Influence of climate on Cicada septendecim. 

Entomologica Americana, I, No. 5, 1885, p. 91. 

Record of experiments in the transferring of eggs of Cicada septendecim and tredecim into 
different climates to test the effect of climate on the permanency of the two races. 

Charles V. Riley. The present status and future prospects of silk-culture in the 
United States. 

Entomologica Americana, i, No. 7, 1885, pp. 139-140. 

Abstract of a paper read at the Ann Arbor meeting of the Am. Ass. Adv. Sci., and printed 
in Proe. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci., xxxiv, August, 1885, p. 510. 

Charles V.Riley. Aletia xylinays. A. argillacea. 

Entomologica Americana, i. No. 9, 1885, pp. 161-163. 

Summary ot the natural history of Oaleruca xanthomelaena, with general descriptions of the 
different states, and discussion of the remedies available for the destruction of the iusects. 
Figures of the insect in all states, with details of eggs and larva and elm leaves, showing mode 
of feeding. 

Charles V. Riley. The Chester onion pest. 

Orange County Farmer (N. Y.), July 2, 1885. 

Letter by C. V. Riley, dated J une 25, 1885, and addressed to Hon. George W. Greene, Goshen, 
Orange County, N. Y. ; refers to experiments carried on for destroying the onion cut-worm 
(lu,iva,ot Agrotismessoria); quotes passages on remedies for cut-«orms, from the annual report 
of the United States Entomologist for 1884 ; recommends the poisoned ball system, and spray- 
ing with dilute kerosene emulsion ; gives formula and directions for preparing soap-kerosene 
emulsion. 

Charles V.Riley. "Grasshopper" injury. The probability of locust or "grass- 
hopper " injury in the near future, and on a new method of counteracting their 
injury. 

Proceedings of the sixth meeting of the Society for tne Promotion of Agricultural Science (held 
at Ann Arbor, Mich., 1885), pp. 38-39. 
Also m Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci., xxxiv, August, 1885, pp. 579 ; 520. 
Also in Prairie Farmer, lvii, October 10, 1885, p. 609. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM 693 

Chakles V. Riley. "Grasshopper" injury — Contiuued. 

Abstract of paper read before the Ann Arbor meeting of the Am. Ass. Adv. Sci., August 
28, 1885. 

Discusses the iujury done by locusts in 1885, and the piobabilitios for the next year ; refers 
to the extensive egg-laying of Caloptenus spretws in Montana and Dakota, and points out the 
possible danger resuUiug from the increase of this species ; describes the novel method of poi- 
soning Melanoplus devastator in California by using a bait composed of arsenic, sugar, bran, 
and water. 

Charles V. Riley. Some popular fallacies and some new facts regarding Cicada sep- 
tendechn L. 

Proj. Am. Assoc. Adv. ScL, xxxiv, August, 1885, p. 334. 
Author'.s separate copies published May, 1886. 

A very short abstract of the paper read before the Ann Arbor meeting of the Am. Ass. Adv. 
Sci. 

Charles V. Riley. On the Parasites of the Hessian Fly. 

Pfoc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vni, September 14, 1885, pp. 413-422. Plate xxni. 

Also as abstract in Proc. Am. Ass. Adv. Sci., xxxiv, August, 1885, pp. 332-334. 

Author's separate copies published May, 1886. 
JoHX A. Ryder. A new .system of oyster-culture. 

Scii'nce,\l, No. 147, Nov. 27, 1885, pp. 465-467. 
John A. Ryder. Success in hatching the eggs of the codfish. 

Science, vu, No. 153, Jan. 8, 1886, pp. 26-28. 

John A. Ryder. A Saunter up the Sandy. 

The American Field, Jan. 23 and 30, 1885, pp. 85-86, and 109-110. 

Describes the experiences of the author in the country around the head of the Big Sandy 
River, including a trip through the region of moonshiners, the natural bridge of Elliott County, 
Ky., and orher objects in the wonderful natural scenery of the sui-rounding country. 

.Ioh.v A.Ryder. Protective contrivance for eggs. 

Forest and Stream, 25, No. 5, Aug. 27, 1885, pp. 89-90. 

John A. Ryder. The oyster problem actually solved. 
Forest and Stream, 25, No. 13, Oct. 22, 1885, pp. 249-250. 

JoHX A. Ryder. Hatching codfish eggs. 

Forest and Stream, 25, No. 25, Jan. 14, 1886, p. 488. 

John A. Ryder. The resting position of the oyster. A correction. 

Nature, Nov. 26, 1885, pp. 80-81. 
John A. Ryder. The swimming habits of the sunfish. 

Science, Aug. 7, 1885, pp. 103-104. 

John a. Ryder. The development and structure of Microliydea Utjderi, Potta. 

American Naturalist, vol. 19, No. 12, Dec, 1885, pp. 1232-1236. 
John A. Ryder. The development of the toad-fish. 

American Naturalist, Jan., 1886, pp. 77-80. 
John A. Ryder. On some points in microtomy. 

Proc. Am. Ass. Ado. Sd., xxxni, 1885, pp. 565-566. 
John A. Ryder. Answers to questions about fattening oysters. 

Brdl. JJ. S. Fish Com., v, Sept. 28, 1885, p. 416. 
J(jhn a. Ryder. On the availability of embryological characters in the classifica- 
tion of the Chordata. 

Amer. Nat., Sept., ]885, vol. 19, Nos. 8, 9, pp. 815-819, and Sept., 1885, pp. 903-907. 
John A. Ryder. On the genesis of the extra terminal phalanges in the Cetacea. 

Awier. iV"a<., vol. 19, No. 10, Oct., 1885, pp. 1013-101,5. 

This note presents the substances of conclusions reached by Mr. Ryder in his memoir enti- 
tled, " On the dovolopmout of the Cetacea, together with a consideration of the probable ho- 
mologies of the fluke.s of Cetaceans and Sirenians," now in press. 
John A. Ryder. On the manner in which the cavity of the heart is formed in cer- 
tain Teleo.sts. 

Amer. Nat, vol. 19, No. 10, Oct., 1885, pp. 101.5-1016. 
John A. Ryder. The archistome theory. 

Amer. Nat., vol. 19, No. 11, Nov., 1885, pp. 1115-1 121. 



694 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886 

John A. Ryder. Prelimiuary notice of the development of the toad-Jisli, Bairaclia 
iau. 

Bull. U.S. Fish Com., vi, pp. 4-8. 

John A. Ryder. On the earlier stages of cleavage of the Blastodisk of Baia erinacea. 
Bull. V. S. Fish Com., vi, pp. 8-10, pi. I. 

John A. Ryder. Ou the intraovarian gestation of the red-fish, Sehastes marinvs. 
Bull. U. S. Fish Com., vi, pp. 92-94. 

O. Salvin. 

See under F. Du Cane Godmaa. 

Philip Lutley Sclater. Catalogue | of the | Passeriformes | or | Perching hirds | 
iu the I collection | of the | British Museum | — | . Fringilliformes : Part II | 
containing the families | Ccerebidw, Tanaffridw, and Icteridce, \ by | Philip Lutley 
Sclater. | London : | Printed by order of the trustees, | 1886. 
8vo. pp. l-xvii-i- 1-431. Plates i-xvii. 

Material in the ^iatiooaJ Museum has been frequently used by the author iu reaching his con- 
clusions. 

Newton Pratt Scudder. • Department of the Interior | U. S. National Museum | — 
Bulletin | of the | United States National Museum. | No. 23. | Bibliographies of 
American naturalists. II. The published writings of Isaac Lea, LL. D., | by | 
Newton Pratt Scudder. | — | Washington : | Government Printing Office. | 188o. 
8vo. pp. I-LIX, 1-278. Plates,!. 

Ernest E. T. Seton. Notes on Manitoban Birds. 
The Auk, n, July, 1885, pp. 267-271. 
The specimen of " Uopper-rufFed Partridge " referred to is in the National Museum. 

R. W. Shufeldt. Description of Uesperomys truei, a new species belonging to the 
subfamily murinaj. 

Proc. U. S. ^at. Mus., vni, Sept. 14, 1885, pp. 403-408. Plate xxi (8 figs). 

Describes a new mouse captured at Fort Wingate, New Mexico, and dedicated by the author 
to Mr. F. W. True, Curator, Dept. of Mammals, U. S. National Museum. 

R. W. Shufeldt. The osteology of Amia calva, including certain special references 
to the skeleton of Teleosteans. 
Fourteen plates. One figure. 
liep. IT. S. Coin'r Fish and Fisheries, Part VI, pp. 747-878. (Also as a .separate.) 

Hugh M. Smith. Ereunetes occidentalis on the Lower Potomac. 
The Auk, n, Oct., 1885, p. 385. 
Specimens Nos. 105351-105354, U. S. National Museum. 

Hugh M, Smith. Harelda hyemaUs in Maryland in summer. 

The Auk, u, Oct., 1885, p. 385. 

Eefers to No. 105301, U. S. National Museum, presented by the anthor. 

Hugh M. Smith. Birds new to the District of Columbia. 
The Auk, ni, Jan., 1886, pp. 139-140. 
Relating chiefly to specimens in the National Museum collection. 

John B. Smith (Editor). Entomologica Americana. 

Current numbers, I, No. 4, 1885, to ii. No. 3, 1886 (inclusive). 
A monthly journal devoted to entomology in general. 

John B. Smith (Secretary). Proceedings of the Entomological Club of the Amer- 
ican Association for the Advancement of Science. 

Entomologica Americana, ■i.'Ko. 7,1885, pp. 121-125; No. 9,1885, pp. 1C4-178; No. 11, 1886, pp. 
209-214 ; No. 12, 1886, pp. 222-227. 

John B. Smith (Secretary). Abstracts of the Proceedings of the Brooklyn Entomo- 
logical Society. 

Entomologica Americana, I, No. 4, 1885, p. 80 ; No. 7, 1885, p. }40 ; No. 8, 1885, pp. 159-1 CO ; No. 9, 
1885, pp. 179-180 ; No. 10, 1886, p. 200 ; No. 11, 1886, p. 220 ; No. 12, 1886, p. 229 ; ll. No. 1, 1880, pp. 19- 
20; No. 2, 1886, p. 44 ; No. 3, 1880, p. 64. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 695 

John B. Smith (Secret.iry). Abstracts of the Procoetlinys of tbo Entomological So- 
ciety of Washiugtou. 

EntomologUa Amencana, I, No. 9, 1885, p. leo ; No. 10, 1886, p. '200 ; No. II, 1886, p. 220 ; No, 12, 
1886, pp. 229-230 ; ll, No. 1, 1886, p. 20 ; No. 2, 1886, p. 44. 

John B. Smith. Notes and News. 

Entomologica Americana, 1, No. 4, 1S85, pp. 78-79. 

(1) Methods of preserving Casiidoe anil iridescent insects. (2) Notes on Atlacus splendkhts 
and A. cinctiis, giving the differences between them. (3) Notes on .a pecnliai- appendage in 
Ctenueha fulvicoll'is and the relation of the Arctiklce and Zygamidir. (4) Miscolliineons news 
and information. 

John B. Smith. An introduction to a classification of the North American Lepidop- 
icra. 

Entomologica America7ia, I, No. 5, 1885, pp. 81-87. 

Gives a critical review of the genera of the Sphingidce and a brief characterization of the 
North American forms; making radical changes in the .synonymy and system of classitication 
heretofore in use. Followed by a synoptic table of the genera. 

John B. Smith. Some new species of Hisjjini. 
Entomologica Americana, I, No. 5, 1885, pp. 94-95. 

Describes as new, Microrhopala uniforviis, Odontota Horni, O. laterUia, Charistena bicolor, 
and comments on allied species. 

John B. Smith. A stnd;/ of the species of Cryptohlum, of North America. (Review.) 
Entomologica Americana, I, No. 5, 1885, pp. 99-100. 

John B. Smith. Cyanide versus alcohol in collecting. 
Entomologica Americana, I, No. 6, 1885, p. 120. 
Discusses the best material to use in killing insects of various orders. 

John B. Smith. Fourteenth report of the State entomologist on the noxious and 
beneficial insects of the State of Illinois. (Review.) 
Entomologica Americana, i. No. 8, 1885, pp. 157-158. 

John B. Smith. Notes on some structural characters of the Lepkloptera. 

Entomologica Americana, I, No. 9, 1885, pp. 164-167. 

Read before the Entomological Club of the Amer. Assoc. Adv. Science, Aug. 25, 1885. 

Discusses and describes the modifications of genital structure in the Noctuidcc and Bomhy- 
cidce, and more particularly comments on the structure of Zygcanida', Si/nfomida; iScfdidai, 
Macroglossce, and Eombycidce. An outline of a classification based partly on genital structure. 
The different proportions of the legs, and the epiphyses to the front tibia were described 
and commented on. 

John B. Smith. CosmoKomo, omphale. 

• Entomologica Americana, i, No. 10, 1886, pp. 181-186, Fig. 7. 
Read before the Brooklyn Entomological Society, Nov. 3, 1885. 

Describes a peculiar secondary sexual character of the cT of this species, consisting of a large 
cavity in the abdomen, filled with a. cottony or silky substance. Thi.s substance is i'olded in 
two pad.s and the ventral opening is hinged in such a way that by merely lifting the .abdomen, 
the cavities open and these pads are exposed. Detailed descriptions and drawings of the 
I)art8 are given. 

John B. Smith. How shall we create and foster an interest in the study of ento- 
mology ? 

Entomologica Americana, I, No. 12, 1886, ])p. 225-227. 

Discusses the present state of the science ; the nunil)er of entomologists and how a greater 
popular interest might be excited ; the needs of the studcnis and how tliey may be filled. 

John B. Smith. [Arrangement of the Sphingidw.^ 
Entomologica Americana, n. No. 1, 1886, pp. 6-7. 

Reply to Prof. C. H. Femald's article in the same issue of tlie journal criticising 1 lie aiitlior's 
arrangement of the Sphingid/u. 

John B. S.MITH. Studies on North Anu;rican Clialcid Ida; with descrii)tious of now 
species from Florida. (Review.) 

Entomologica Americana, ii, No. 1, 1886, p. 19. 

JoH.v B. Smith. The Butterflies of thc) Eastern United States. (Review.) 
Entomologica Americana, u, No. 2, 1886, pp. 43-14. 



696 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

John B. Smith. Notes on the Satarnidm. 

Entomologiea Americana, ii, No. 2, May, 18S6, p. 44. 

Gives a brief outline of the characters of the family and of proposed subdivision on the 
basis of venation and antennal structure. 
John B. Smith. Report on the Ouiou Cut- worm, Agrotis messoria. 

Kept. TJ. S. Dept. Agric, 1885, pp. 273-274. 

Gives the results of observations of the habits of this larva in onion fleld.s, with a statement 
of damage done and remedies applied. 
John B. Smith. Report on tlie Strawberry Weevil, Anthonomus miiscalus. 

Rept. U. S. Dept. Agric, 1885, pp. 277-278. 

Gives the results of observations on this insect on the strawberries of Staten Island. 
John B. Smith. Larva of Hemileuca main ; bibliography of. 

Oan. Ent., svni, March, 1886, p. 60. 

Gives references to the literature of this larva, and where figured. 
SiDNEV I. Smith. The Abyssal Decapod Crustacese of the Albatross Dredgings in the 
North Atlantic. 

Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., March, 1886, pp. 187-198. 

This article is in the main abstracted from the introductory portion of the author's " Report 
on the Decapod Crustacea) of the Albatross Dredgings off the East Coast of the United States' 
during the Summer and Autumn of 1884," with twenty plates, recently presented to the TJ. S. 
Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries, by whose permission it is here published in advance of 
the Government report. The region it covers is limited on the south by the latitude of Capo 
Hatteras. 

The following lists are given with notes : 

List of Decapoda taken below 1,000 fathoms in the North Atlantic by the Albatross in 
1883-85, with the bathyiuetrical range of each species. 

Species inhabiting the bottom or its immediate neighborhood. 

Species probably not confined to the immediate neighborhood of the bottom, but showing 
structural evidence of inhabiting abyssal depths. 

Doubtful, but probably inhabiting abyssal depths. 

Species probably not inhabiting abyssal depths. 

The structural and other characteristics of the deep-sea forms are discussed at some length. 

R. E. C. Stearns. Edible Shell-fish fonnd near Cuba. 
Bull. U. S. Fish Com., V, Aug. 21, 1885, pp. 311-312. 

R. E. C. Stearns. Note on the Clams of the Pacific coast. 

Bull.U. S.Fish Com., v, Sept. 15, 1885, pp. 356-357. 

R. E. C. Stearns. The distribution of species. 

Forest and Stream, xxvi, No. 16, May 13, 1885, pp. 304-305. , 

This paper was read before the Chicago meeting of American Fisheries Society, April 14, 
1886. After referring to the artificial distribution of species, as in fish culture, attention ia 
called to the incidental distribution (as opposed to intentional), as in case of weeds, small mam- 
mals, insects, and mollusks. 

R. E. C. Stearns. [The Teredo or Shipworm.] 
Amer.Nat.,xx. 2, Feb., 1886, pp. 131-136. 

This article is an answer to a letter of inquiry addressed to the Museum by one of its cor- 
respondents. 

Silas Stearns. Notes on the Great Dolphin, Coryphwna hippurus, Linu6. 

Proc. v. S. Nat. Mus., vni, Dec. 7, 1885, pp. 635-636. 
Leonhard Stejneger. Departmentof the Interior : | U.S. National Museum. | — | 
Bulletin | No. 29 | of the | United States National Museum. | Results | of | Or- 
nithological Explorations | in | the Commander Islands and in Kamtschatka. | 
By I Leonhard Stejneger | — | Washington: | Government Printing Office. | 1885. 
8vo. pp. 1-382. Plates, 1-8; 7 figures. 

The official report on the ornithological collection made by the author during his travels in 
Kamtschatka, 1882-'83. The first part of the book treats of the species collected ; the second 
part contains a list of all the species reported to inhabit Kamtschatka ; the third part em- 
braces the "conclusions," being a summary of the composition of the avifauna, the migra- 
tions, etc. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 697 

Lkoxhard Stejneger. " Toporok ", Tufted Puffin : Ltinda cirrhata, l'n]\. 
Random Notes on Natural History, ill, 1886, pp. 17-19. 
Editorial reprint from Bulletin Ko. 29, U. S. National Mu.seum. 
Lkoxhard Stejxegkr. Notes ou some apparently preoccupied Ornithological Ge- 
neric Names. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vin, Sept. 14, 1885, pp. 409^10. 

Glangula Flem. as applied to the Golden-eyes is preoccupied by Leach for Uarelda ; Glan- 
cionetta is proposed as a substitute; Caniice Reichenb., previously applied to a dipterous in- 
sect, changed to Ganachites. 
Lkoxhard Stejneger. Articles Ficaricp (except Humming-birds) and I'asseres. 
The Standard Natural History, iv, 1885, pp. 3C8-441 and 458-547. 

To a great extent based on material in the Museum. Fig. 197c and fig. 235 ate drawn from 
specimens in the Museum collection. 

Lkoxhard Stejneger. Grieve on the Great Auk, or Garefowl. (Review.) 

The Auk, in, Apr., 188G, pp. 262-203. 
Leoxhard Stejneger. Meves, on the size and color of the eyes of European birds. 
(Review.) 

The A uk; ni, April, 1886, pp. 265-266. 

Leonhard Stejxeger. Analecta Ornitbologica. Sixth series, xxix.. Jacana con- 
tra P«7'/'fl. XXX. C'o/i/wt&MS «('^rico//(S, not a North American Bird. xxxi. " Simo- 
rhynchus Merreni, 1819." xxxii. Dendroica vigorsii (And.). 
The Auk, ii, Oct., 1885, pp. 337-343. 
Leoxhard Stejneger. On the alleged Occurrence of the Pacific P^ider in Labrador. 
The Auk, n, Oct., 1885, p. 386. 

Refers to Degland and Gerbe's statement in relation to spociiuens of " Somateriamollissi'ina " 
from Newfoundland having a V-sbaped mark on the throat. 

Leoxhard Stejneger. Letter to Dr. B. H. Warren, in reply to inquiries concerning 
food-habits of Hawks and Owls. 

Daily Local News (West Chester, Pa.), March 5, 1886. 
Reprinted in Forest and stream, xxvi. No. 9. March 25, 1885, p. 164. 

Pronounces the idea of systematically persecuting the majority of Hawks and Owls "simply 
preposterous," and advocates the speedy repeal of the act of June 3, 1885, of the laws of Penn- 
sjlvania, "since most of the birds alluded to are among the very best friends of the farmer." 

Leonhard Stkjnfger. Vitus I. Bering og de Russiske Opdagelsesrojser fra 17'25-4;5. 
Af P. Lauridsen. (Review.) 
Naturen: Dec, 1885, pp. 194, 195. 

Lkoxhard Stejneger. Fotografiske Papirnegativer. 
Naturen, x, June, 1886, pp. 92,93. 

Leonhard Stejneger. Fra det yderste Osten. | v | Rejsebreve | af | Leonhard 
Stejneger. | — | (Separataftryk af "Naturen," 1885-1886.) | — | Kristiania. — 
Grondahl & Sons, Bogtrykkeri. | 
8vo. pp. 1-51. 

Also as Fra det yderste 0.sten. v. En Baadtur iiindt Barings-ocn. Naturen : 188.5, pp. 1.50- 
157 and 167-174; 1886, pp. 33-36 and 49-52. 
A popular account of the author' .i circumnavigation of Bering Island in the .autumn of 1883. 
See also uudei' Ajierican Ornithologists' Union. 
E. Sterling. Salmon in the Columbia. 

Forest and Stream, xxv, 9, Sept. 24, 1885, p. 168. 

Livingston Stone. The trout of Sunapee Lake. 

Forest and Stream, xxvr, 11, April 8, 1886, p. 208. 
James G. Swan. Notes on the Black Cod of the North Pacific Ocean. 
Bull. U. S. Fish Com., v, pp. 225-234. 

^''rederick W. True. Contributions to the history of the Connnandcr Islands, No. Ii. 
Description of a new species of Mesoplodon, M. Slcjncgeri, from Boring Island. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vni, Oct. 19, 1885, pp. 584, 585, plate xxv. 

Frederick W. True. A note upon the Hijpevoodon semijunctuH of Cope. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mas., vni, Oct. 19, 1885, pp. 587-589, one cut. 



698 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Frederick W. True. Suggestions to the keepers of the United States Life-Saving 
stations, light-honses, and liglit-ships, and to other observers, relative to the best 
means of collecting and preserving specimens of whales and porpoises. 

Report of the United States Commisnoner of Fish and Fisheries, \8SZ [18&5|. pp. 1157-1182. 
Plates 11. Five figures. Special iudox. 
(Published also as a separate, with title-page and separate paging.) 

Frederick W. True. A rare Dolphin. 

Science, vi, No. 128, July 17, 1885, p. 44. 
Frederick W. True. The British Museum of Natural History. 

Science, VI, Ko. 132, Aug. 14, 1885, pp. 127-130. 

Frederick W. True. A means of distinguishing the Canada lynx from the Bay 
lynx. 

Science, vn, No. 169, April 30, 1886, p. 396. 

Gives certain cranial characters, which render L. canadensi'; readily distingiiishahle from L. 
rufus and its varieties. 
Frederick W. True. A task for Anatomists. 

Science, vii. No. 171, May 14, 1886, pp. 428-429. 
LuciEN M. Turner. Hawk and Owl. 

Forest and Stream, xxvi, No. 9, March 25, 1885, pp. 163-164. 
Tieats of their value to farmers. 
LuciEN M. Turner. List of the Birds of Labrador, including Ungava, East Main, 
Moose, and Gulf Districts of the Hudson Bay Company, together with the Island 
of Auticosti. 

Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., vui, July 13, 1885, pp. 233-254. 

A. E. Verrill. Notice of recent additions to the Marine Invertebrata of the north- 
eastern coast of America, with descriptions of new genera and species and critical 
remarks on others. Part V. — Annelida, EcMnodermata, Hydroida, Tunicata. 
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vra, Sept. 17 .ind 22, 1885, pp. 424-448. 

One new genus of Annelids, Op /liojrii/cera, is described on page 436. The following species 
are also described in greater or less detail : 

ANNELIDA. 

Page. 

Polyno'i Acanelloe V 424 

aurantiaca V 425 

Leanira robusta V 426 

Ainphinome Lepadis V 427 

Leodicc Benedicti, sp. nov 427 

polybranchia V 428 

Hyallncecia artifex V 429 

Notophyllum americamim V 432 

Anaitis formosa V 433 

pictaY 433 

Castalia cincinnata, sp. nov 434 

Syllis spongiphila V 435 

Ophioglycera gigantea V 436 

Polydora tuhifex, sp. nov 438 

Am,inoGhares artifex, sp. nov 439 

Lcprcea abyssicola V 439 

Sabella picta Y 440 

ECHINOnERMATA. 

Synapta brychia, sp. nov 440 

Ophiomitra spiMca Y 

Ophiacantha fratcrna, sp. no v 441 

varispina, sp. nov 442 

granulifera Y 443 

enopla Y 443 

aculeata Y 443 

crassi'dens Y 444 

gracilis, sp. nov 444 

hidentata Ljuiig 445 



BIBLIOGRAPIIV OF IT. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 699 

ECfllNODKKMATA— COUtilUU'll. 

Pago. 

Ophiolcbes acanellce V 445 

Amphiura otteri Ljunji. (?), Ly m 445 

fragilis, sp. nov 445 

Ophioscolex quadrispitmn V 446 

Jlemieuryale tenuispina V 440 

IIYDUOIDA. 

Cladocarpns flexilis, sp. no v 447 

TUNICATA. 

Gtdeolus Tanneri, sp. uov 447 

Charles D. Waj^cOTT. Note on some Paleozoic Pteropods. 

Amer. Journ. ScL, xxx, July, 1885, pp. 17-21. Also as a separate. 
F. L. Washburn. Deep-sea dredging ou tlie United Sttites steamer Albatross. 
Trans. Am. FUh. Soc, 1886, p. 17. 

Samuel Webber. Trout of Sunapee Lake. 

Forest and Stream, XXVI, 3, Feb. 11, 1886, p. 51. 

Samuel Webber. The new trout of Snnapee Lake. 

Forest and stream, xxvi, 8, Mar. 18, 1880, p. 140. 
Samuel Webber. The trout of Sunapee Lake. 

Forest and Stream, xxvi, 11, Apr. 8, 1886, p. 208. 
Charles A. White. On the fresh-water invertebrates of the North American 
Jurassic. 

Bulletin U. S. Geological Survey, No. 29, pp. 1-24 («S9;>-712), pi. l-iv. 

IIexry S. Williams. Oa the classitication of the Upper Devonian. 

Proc. Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci.,\xxiv, Aug., 1^85, pp. 222-234. 
S. S. WOODARD. The trout of Suuapee Lake, 

Forest and Stream, xxvi, 15, May 6, 1&86, p. 287. 



I^^^HT V. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS TO THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM DURING THE 
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1886, TOGETHER WITH DESCRIP- 
TIVE NOTES AND INDICES. 



701 



INTRODUCTOEY NOTE. 

The following order has been observed iu the description of each 
object or gronp of objects iu the list of accessions : 

(1) Name of specimen or of the class to which related. 

(2) Description of specimen, with locality whence obtained. 

(3) Name of sender, with address. 

(4) Current accession number in the Museum Register. 

(5) The calendar year in which received. 

(6) The number of the department to which the accession has been 
assigned, these numbers coVresponding with those given in the classi- 
fication of the scientific departments. 

703 



LIST OF acces8io:ns.* 

Insect, Cifheronia retjaUs. 

A. B. Haking, Frenchtown, Now Jersey. 1G20D. 'do. (x) 
Yellow Calcite, for exatniaatiou. 

James F. Douglas, Tyler, Texas. 16210. '85. (xvi) 
Habitaculum of the cicada, anrl chimney of Cicada septcndecim. 
S. M. Sener, Lancaster, Pennsylvania. 16211. '85, (x) 
Birds (23 specimens, 14 species), from Richland County, Illinois. 

Egbert EiDGW ay, Smithsonian Institution. 16212. '65. (v, a) 
Birds' Nest saxd Eggs. Sciurus motacilla (nest and 6 eggs), PipiJo erythroplithalmus 
(nest and 3 eggs), A()elaius phamiceus (nest and 4 eggs), Empidunax trailli (nest 
and 4 eggs), Geothhjpls trichas {nest and 4 eggs), BaUiits clajans (nest and 11 eggs), 
Emindonax acadicus (1 nesr), Fireo iiovehoraccnuis (1 nest), from Indiana and 
Illinois. 
Robert Ridgway, U. S. National Museum. 16212. '85. (V,i{) 
Minerals exhibited by U. S. General Land Office at the New Orleans Exposition, 1884. 
U.S. General Land Office, Washington. 16213. '85. (xvi) 

Ores. 

U. S. General Land Office, Washington. 16213. '85. (xviii) 

Building Stones. 

U. S. General Land Office, Washington. 16213. '85. (xvii) 

British Exchequer Tally. (Described in this Report, Part i, page 64). 

A.W. Franks, British Museum. (Through W. T. Thiselton Dyer.) 16214. 
'85. (I) 
Tuft-eared Squirrel, Sciurus aherii (skin). 

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U.S. Army, Fort Wingate, New Mexico. 16215. '85, (iv) 

Bird, Icterus galbula, in the flesh, for identification. 

James W. RoGAN, Rogersville, Tennessee. 16216. '85. (v, a) 

Grass, Sorghum nutans, Gray, for examination. 

James W. Rogan, Rogersville, Tennessee. 16216. '85. (xv) 
Insect, Di/nastes titi/us, Linn., for identification. 

Charles Ball, AVaverly, Tennessee. (Through Mrs. M. E. Sawyer.) 16217, 
'85. -(x) 
Ova of fish, reptiles, sharks, and insects ; fish ovaries and spermarios. 

Miss Rosa Smith, San Diego, California. 16218. '85. (xxi) 
Fishes, Erotelis smaragdus, Mugil, Zt/gonectes auroguttatus, Z. nottii, lleterandria 
onuiiata, Ethcostoma davisoni, from Florida. 

O. P. Hay, Irviugton, Indiana. 1621'J. '85. (vii) 
Tarantula Spider, belonging to the genus Chaleroma, Auss., tlio si»ecios being prob- 
ably undescribed. 
J. B. Bowman, Aleman, Now Mexico. 16220. '85. (x) 

* Wlien the locality of an accession is the same as the address of the sender, no 
mention of locality is made in connection with the description of the accession. 

703 



704 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Birds (13 specimens, 9 species), Parns inornatits f/riseiis, P. montaims, Spiiius pinus, 
Poocwtes gramineus covfinis, SpizeUa socialis arizona; Amphisinza heJli iievadensiti, 
Jiinco annectens, J. caniceps, Dryohates vlllosiis liarrisii. 

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U. S. Army, Fort Wingate, New Mexico. 16221. '85. 

(V,A) 

Plants, Urtica gracilis. 

Felix Fremerey, Newark, New Jersey. 16222. '85. (i) 

Iron Ore. 

C. E. Coffin, Muirkirk, Maryland. 16223. '85. (xviii) 

Fungus. 

H. C. Lay, Jr., Telluride, Colorado. 16224. '85. (xv) 
Stone Implements. Leaf-shaped implement, arrowheads (3), polished celts (3), 
grooved axe, and a rude or unfinished pierced tablet. 

Dr. E. C. Black, Wheatland, Indiana. 16225. '85. (ill, a) 
SiLiciFiED Wood, chalcedony nodule, fragment of drusy quartz on silicified wood 
and fragment of chalcedony. 
Dr. E. C. Black, Telluride, Colorado. 16225. '85. (xvi) 

Fresh-water Mussels, Unto (10 species), and a few other river shells. 

Miss Julia Black, Wheatland, Indiana. 16226. '85. (ix) 
Stalagmitic Deposit, containing bones of mammals ; from Todd's limekiln quarry, 
near Cartersville, Georgia. 

U. S. Geological Survey, Washington. 16227. '85. (iv) 
American Jute, probably Scirpus validus ; fiber and pulp. 

Francis Jefferey. Ketchum, Alturas County, Idaho. 16223. '85. (i") 
Knife used by fishermen ou Lake Erie in the vicinity of Cleveland and Sandusky. 

Charles Cawood, Cleveland, Ohio. 16229. '85. (i) 

Grapsoid Crab, probably Sesarina, young ; from Cape San Antonio, Cuba. 
L. S. Foster, New York City. 16230. '85. (xi) 

Barite (4 fragments). 

C. M. Gilmore, Alexandria, Virginia. 16231. '85. (xvi) 

Sealing Wax. Supplementary to accession 15971. * 

Dennison Manufacturing Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 16232. 

'85. (I) 

Antiquities, from France. t 

Thomas Wilson, United States Consul, Nice, France. 16233. '85. (iii) 

Pig iron and infusible slag, for examination. 

John J. Weimer, Stoutsville, Ohio. 16234. '85. (xviii) 

Yellow-headed Blackbird, Xanthocephalus icterocephalux, iu the flesh. 
J. B. Bowman, Aleman, New Mexico. 16235. '85. (v,a) 

Spider, probably a new species. Will be described by Dr. George Marx as Thalero- 
mata niger. 
J. B. Bowman, Aleman, New Mexico. 16235. '85. (x) 

Kinkajou, Cercoleptes caudivolvulus (alive), from South America. 

Mrs. Oliver T. Miller, Brooklyn, New York. 16236. '85. (iv) 

Miniature Statuette of " Liberty Enlightening the World" (6 inches in height). 
American Committee op the Statue of Liberty (through Richard Butler, 
secretary). 16237. '85. (i) 

* A list of samples was published in the Museum Report, 1885, p. 206. 
t The boxes containing this collection have not yet been unpacked. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 705 

Cassin's Fixcii, Pciicwa cassini(sk\n), auil Grolduu-l'roulcd Woodpecker, Cculurus aiiri- 
frons (2 skius^, fioui I3ex;ir Couuty, Toxus. (Excliaiigo. ) 

TiiuMAS MclLWKAixn, Hamilton, Ontario, Cauada. lG::il!8. '85. (v, a) 
SriiiNiTE, niaugauese, novaculite, and coal.* 

Dr. J. Guy Lewis, Little Eock, Arkansas. 1G239. '85. (xvii-i) 
Gold Ore from Georgia and cojiper ore from Tennessee. 

William Beal, MurpLy, North Carolina. 1G240. '85. (xviii) 
0i:i:s.* (Exchange.) 

Lewis R. Sharp, Leadville, Colorado. 1G'241. '85. (xviii; 
Gold and Silver Ores.* 

Dr. William Hall, Central City, Colorado. 10242. '85. (xvui) 
Antimoxy, mercury, tin, and iron ores. (Exchange.) 

Prof. Henry G. Hanks, San Francisco, California. 1(3243. '85. (xviii) 
Krupp Steel made by the Krupp dephosphorizing process. 

Cambria Iron Company, Johnstown, Pennsylvania. 1G244. '85. (xviii) 
Mica, and tin ore from the Black Hills. 

R. E. Fleming, Mandarin, Dakota. 1G245. '85. (xviii) 
Quautzite, from Sioux Falls, Dakota (2 specimens); concretion, from Caunun Ball 
River, Dakota, and a large block of volcanic breccia. 

R. E. Fleming, Mandarin, Dakota. 16245. '85. (xviii) 
Manganese, iron, and corundum.* (Exchange.) 

N. P. Pratt, Atlanta, Georgia. 1G24G. '85. (xviii) 
Ores,* a large and valuable collection. 

Col. George L.Snoup, Salmon City, Idaho. IG247. '85. (xviii) 
Coal, a largo collection, including 8 sections of veins. 

Prof. J. R. Proctor, Lexington, Kentucky. iG248. '85. (xviii) 
Lead, silver, and copper ores.* 

W. A. Clark, Butte, Montana. 1G241). '85. (xviii) 
Silver and lead ores.* 

•John S. Harris, Helena, Montana. 1G250. '85. (xviii' 
Iron Ore and gypsum.* 

F. W. Noble, Detroit, Michigan. 1G251. '85. (xviii) 
Ores and a series of pictures illustrating mining scenes.* 

W. M. Havenor, Reno, Nevada. 1G252. '85. (xviii) 
Silver and iron ores.* 

Prof. N. Spatcier, Las Cruces, New Mexico. 1G253. '85. (xviii) 
Zixc. (Exchange.)* 

Prof. George J. Cook, New Brunswick, New Jersey. 1G254. '85. (xviii) 

Ores.* 

J. C. Swash, Union, Oregon. 1G255. '85. (xviii) 
Iron and copper ores.* 

A. J. McWhirter, Nashville, Tennessee. 1G25G. '85. (xvui) 
Coal.* 

F. E. RoESLER, Dallas, Texas. 16257. '85. (xviii) 
Iro.v aud coi)i>er, from North Carolina and Tennessee.* 

C. H. Waring, Knoxville, Tennessee. 16258. '85. (xviii) 
Fossil Stems (2 specimens), from Ozark Mountains. 

C. F. BroWxV, Hot Springs, Arkansas. 16260. '85. (xiv) 

* Received from the Now Orleans Exposition. 

H, Mis. 170, pt. 2 45 



TOG liEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

SiMOivY (jUAuiz, ([luiitz cry«tiil.s, (quartz ami licujiitite. wavellite ou (juartzite, wavel- 
lito ou a ([uaitz crystal, limouitc pseu<]oiiior[>b alter pyrite, iiielauite iu magnet- 
ite, paramorphts of rutile after arkausite, ami (juartz pseudomorpha. 
C. F. Bkown, Hot Springs, Arkansas. lUiiCO. '85. (xvi) 

Zkuua, EqauH burchelU, in the liesb. 

Barnum, Bailky & Hutchinson, Bridgeport, Connecticut. 162G1. '85. (iv) 

Common Cakuut, Baucus carota, L. 

Mrs. J. A. Henshall, Cynthiana, Kentucky. 1G26'2. '85. (xv) 

Callinectks with oyster attached. 

Samuel P. Walter, Washington. 1G263. '85. (xi) 

Blue Stone Coke, from West Virginia. 

Maj. Jed. Hotcukiss, Staunton, Virginia. lt)2G4. '85. (xviii) 

STO>fE Mortar, from Alleuton, Alabama. 

L. C. Johnson, U. S. Geological Survey. 1G265. '85. (ni\ 

Calcite and Hematite, and quartz containing magnetite and mica. 
W. H. Stephens, Hiner, Texas. 162GG. '85. (xvi) 

Land Tortoise, for examination. 

Frank C. Prescott, Tombstone, Arizona. 1G2G7. '85. (vi) 

Birds, from Southern Mexico. Mimiis polijgloUo>i, Campjjlorhynclms hrmmeicapUlus (2 
specimens), Basileuterus rufifrons, Pirariga liepatica, Carpodacus rliodorolpiiii, 
Fvucwa mexicana, Fooccetes confinis, Vlpilo fusciis, SluriicUa iricxicana, Icterus pari- 
soi'um, Icterus cuciillatus, Pijrocephalus mexicaitus, Centurus aurifrons, Coccyzus amcri- 
canun, Ceryle americaha, Jsio wilsonianus, Circus hudsonius, I'arabutco harrisi, 
Mclopella leucoptcra, Totanus melanoleucns, liecurrirostra americana, lonornis mar- 
tinica, Chaulelasmiis streperus, Marvca americana, Aythya vaUisiieria, J^climopho 
rus clarkii, iSpeotyto hypogaa (28 .■pecimens, 27 species). 

Prof. Alfred DuGiis, Guanajuato, Mexico. 1G2G8. '85. (v, a) 

Birds' Eggs, CampyJorhynchus brtinneicapillus. 

Prof. Alfred DuGiis, Guanajuato, Mexico. 1G2GS. '85. (v,ii) 

Mexican J aca^a, Parra gymnostonia (skeleton). 

Prof. Alfred Duges, Guanajuato, Mexico. 1G2()8. '85. (xii) 

Plants, for identification. 

Prof. Alfred Duges, Guanajuato, Mexico. 1G2G8. '85. (xv) 

Bats, Veipertilio albescens (27 specimens), and cast of a tootli of Ilippariou. 
Prof. Alfred Dugiss, Guauajnato, Mexico. 1G2G8. '85. ^ix) 

Fishes, Amiurus duf/esii, Myxostonuiaustrinum, Goodeaairipinnis, Zophenduui australe, 
Exocwtus, Diodon liturosus ; also a bill of starlish, Prislin. 
Prof. Alfred Dug£;s, Guanajuato, Mexico. lo2G8. '85. (vii) 

Opal (21 small pieces). 

Piof. Alfred Duges, Guanajuato, Mexico. 162i)8. '85. (xvi) 

('!>(;. \i.. sh.rfish, and sea urchins. 

I'lof. Ai. KUKD DuGFs. Gnauajiiato, Mexico. 1G268. '85. (xi) 

j.'i'.i'iir.ES. 

Prof. Alfrkd Duges, Guanajuato, Mexico. 162G8. '85. (vi) 

Moi.LUSKs, Cyprwa t'cryi?i« Lam., C.alhuglnosa Gray, Busycon perversum L., Tivclapla- 
)nilafn Sby., Ostrea iridesccns Gray (variety), and operculum of Fasciolaria 
prineeps, Sb3\ 
Prof. Alfred DuGiis, Guanajuato, Mexico. 1G268. '85. (ix) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 707 

Amalgam, tJikcii I'nmi the stoiiuich of a iniilc woikiiig at auiiiH!. " Tbetso inuies ac- 
iiniio tho habit of licking up the salty sudinieutw wiiich tiiey tread imdcr foot. 
xVl'tor death, himps of amalgam, sometimes weighing several pounds, are ol'ten 
(uiind in the abdominal cavity.^'* 
i'ruf. Alfred DuGi:s, Guauajuato, Mexico. 1G2G8. '85. (xviii) 
LxsKcrs. A collection containing larva) and pupic, cocoons, nest, and 4 iniagos of 
CHsiocam2)a incurva H. Ed \v.,x)upa shell of C'tcarZasp., iSU nopcl mains s[t., Tcticbrioiud 
larva, near Centronopiis calcarata. Mctriopchmi brciieri, Epvlva mammata (?), Lijcona 
H))., llclcropoda vcntorla, Attiis sp. (?), AHiis smarntideiis, A. cardiiialis, rhri/jiii 
DemUunaris Koch, Acrosoma spinosa Hentz, and A. riigona, from Mexico. 
Prof. Alfred DuGi;s, Guanajuato, Mexici). 16208. '85. (x) 
DiODOx, caught in a trap set for cuuuers. 

W. A. Wilcox, Gloucester, Massachusetts. 1G2G9. '85. (vii) 
Common Mole, Scalops aquniicus, and Bat, VcmicrtiUo carolii. 
J. and C. Walker, Oluey, Illinois. 10270. '85. (iv) 
Rei'TILKS, Bascaniiim constrhfor, [Iclvrodini. Ojihibohis, Trupidonolux, Enfivnia, C^jclo- 
phls, Cuhther, liana, and BiiJ'o. 

J. and C.Walker, Oluey, Illinois. 1G270. '85. (vi) 

Barred Owl, Syrniiim nchulusnm alien i, juv. New to the National Museum collection. 
J. H. Batty and E. C.Greexw'ood (through lioberfc Eidgway). 16271. '85. 

(V, A) 

NoDi'LE oi' I'VRITE altering into Limonite ; for examination. 

.loiix J. CiurLEY, Moorelleld, Hardy County, West Virginia. 1G272. '85. 

(XVI) 

Fungus, Polypunis, cut from surface of a hickory. 

J. B. Deatheridge, Flint Hill, Virjriuia. 1627:5. '85. (xv) 
Stoxe Carving (cast), in shajie of human head. A very remarkable specimen. (Orig- 
inal returned.) 

Natural Science Association, Staten Island, New York. 16274. '85. (iii) 
Sturgeon, Aclpcnscrhrei'lroslris. (Skeleton.) 

(Donor unknown). 16275. '85. (xii) 

Altered Sandstone and shales containing particles of mica, also fossil coral; Ibr ex- 
amination. 

Frank Hereford, Union, Monroe County, West Virginia. 1627G. '85. (xv) 
Sandstone, polished one side by glacial or other action, from Newfoundland. 

Willai:d NVE, .Jr., New Bedford, Massachusetts. 16277. '85. (xvii) 
ScAi'iioiD and cuncifonn magnum from the right hock (tarsus) of Eqaas vahaUan. 

A. E. Anderson, Boulder, Colorado. 16278. '85. (iv) 
ELAsric, a, i)iece Hi inches long taken from a mackerel in whose llesli it was nearly 
all imbedded. 

I. C. VOUNG, WelUlect, Massachusetts (through W. A. Wilcox). 16271). '85. (i) 
Bai', IfupcrlUio .scroiiiuis. 

MiDDLETON S.MiTii, Washington, District of Columbia. 16280. '85. (iv) 
r>i;i:rLE, CreopUilus villosiis. 

Dr. T. II. Bean, U. S. National Museum. 1(5281. '85. ' (x) 
Mice and Shrews, »So)tx sp., Ilcspcromija leucopiis, and Arvicola riparias, from Pat- 
choguc, Long Island. 

Dr. T. H. Bean, U. S. National Museum. 16281. '85. (iv) 
Musk-rat, Fiber zibiihicnfi, from Bainbridge, Pennsylvania. 

F.G. Galhraith, Wrightsvillc, Pennsylvania. 16282. '85. ^iv) 

* Translation of a portion of a letter from Professor Dug6s accompanying the col- 
lection. • 



708 REFORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G » 

Old Squaw Duck, Unrclda hijemalis, from Pii)oy Point, Miirybmd. 

H. M. Smith, U. S. National Muscmn. 16283. '85. (v, a) 
QuAiiTZ Crystals, aud quartz crystals cootaining bubbles (;!iH> spcciiucus, 10r>;] 
pieces), from uear Hot Spriugs. 

W. W. MoiiKisoN, Little Rock, Arkansas. 1G284. '85. (xvi) 
Salts obtaiuod by boiliug water from a well. 

M. E. Morgan, Gratz, Owen Couuty, Kentucky. 16285. '85. (xvi) 
Siliceous Sandstone, for examination. 

T. F. KuMMERFiELD, Minden, Iowa. 16286. '85. (xiii, a) 

PoNDWEEU, Potamogeton natans L. ;■ for oxamiuatiou. 

Bennett B. Goodman, Covington, Tennessee. 16287. '85. (xv) 
Molars of a borse, aud Epipbysis of tlie bumerus, probably of a horse or cow. 

John II. Camp, Herring, Allen County, Ohio. 16288. 
Sphalerite Crystals on magnesiau limestone. 

Joiix II. Camp, Herring, Allen County, Ohio. 16288 
CY'ATiioriiYLLOiD CORAL, Silurian. 

John II. Camp, Herring, Allen County, Ohio. 16288. 
Insect, Ncphcla lyleonipes. 

11. S. Owen, Tuscaloosa, Alabama. 16280. '85. 
Stone carvings, iiottery, copper ax, and obsidian. 

Louis II. AymiS, Oaxaca, Mexico. 16290. '85. 

Western Bull Snake, Pityopliia elcjans. 

Gustav EiSEN, Fresno City, California. 16291. 

Fishes, Carapus sp., and Fundulus platyccphalus. 

Gustav Eisen, Fresno City, California. 16291. 
Fishes,* a collection of Cuban species, including many types. 

Felipe Poey, Havana, Cuba. 16292. '85. (a^i) 
Aleutian wallet, from Alta Island. 

Dr. T.H. Bean, U.S. National Museum. 16293. '85. (ii, «) 

Gold and copper ores, corundum, aud coal. 

Col. P. M.Wilson, E.aleigb, North Carolina. 16291. '85. (xviii) 

BuiLUiNG STONES and adobe. 

F. E. RoESLER, Dallas, Texas. 16295. '85. (xvii) 

Elephant, Elcplias iitdicus, adult. 

Barnum, Bailey & lIUTCfUNSox, Keene, New Hampshire. 16296. '85. (iv) 

Limestone, for examination. 

Hon. Frank Hereford, Union, Monroe Connty, West Virginia. ](i297. '85. 
(xviii) 

Egg Case of moUusk, Busijcon carica ; for exaiMination. • 
J. L. McCaleb, Benton, Texas. 16298. '85. (ix) 

Ore, for examination. 

IIon.C.M. Shelley, Washington. 16299. '85. (xviii) 

Fossils, Dilplnjris lynx, Eichwald (2 specimens), Orthis icsiudianaria, Dalnian (4 
specimens), Leptwna deltoidca, Cox (3 specimens), and Zygospira rccurvirostra, 
Plall (5 specimens). From Trenton Falls, New York. 
R.E. C.Stearns, U.S. National Museum. 16300. '85. (xiii) 

*For further information concerning this Orccession, see report- qn department of 
(ishes, p. 168. 



6288. 


'85. (IV) 


3288 


'85. cxvi) 


6288. 


'85. (xiii, b) 


fx) 




(III) 




'85. 


(VI) 


'85. 


(VII) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 709 

Iron OitK containing niaiiganoso, several vocUh, (^lirouic iron oro, rcxrl.; conf aiuinjf chro- 
mium and antimony. 
.Toiix W. McGee, Seattle, Washington. 1(;:501. 'y.^. (xvi) 
Hl.vck ciiinxed sparrow, Spizellaatrigularis ((> speciMlens^ : and plnnind (juail, (hror- 
Ujx picta (2 specimens). A vefj^ valuable contrilmtion, nearly doubling the Mu- 
seum series of the former species. 

FtMiEST ]5.\LT., San Bernardino, California. 1G302. '8.'). (v, a) 
XKsraiid eggs (2) of Swainson's Warbler, IlcUiiaia nwaiusotni. The first ever eol- 
Icctftl. (Purchased.) 

WiLi.i.vAr ]'>UK\vsTEi{, Caniln-idgii, Massachusetts. lG:>li:>. '8.'>, (v, n) 
KiNC Sn'akk, Ophihiiln^ gcluhis, from tlie District of Columbia. 

H. W. llEXSiiAW, U.S. Geological Survey. l(i;?04. '^!."). (vi) 

Wa ri:i; from an artesian well. 

.J. Si.MaNSOX, Gainesville, Florida. IG^Gf). '85. (xvi) 

Ixsi;cr, fioin Mississip])i. 

i(;:)(JG. '8.'). (X) 
Marixi; Shel.ls (10 species), front the west coast of Madagascar. 

Lieut. M. A. SiiUFELDT, U.S. Navy. 1G:'.07. 'S'>. (ix) 

MoLYBDEXiTE, for examination. 

Overhoi.t and True: Salides, Colorado. IG:U)8. '8^>. (xviii) 
Frksii WATER AXi> Makixe Shells, from Kodiak, collected by W. J. Fisher. 

R. E. C. Stearxs, U. S. National Museum. 16300. 's:>. (ix) 
Ami:i:icax Hercules Beetle, Dyuastvs titiius, Linn. 

Joux S. Webb: Disputauta, Virginia. KJiUO. '8,'). (x) 
Etiixological Objects, from Japan. (Exchange.) 

Bureau OF Ei)UC.\Tiox, Tokyo, Japan. IGIJII. '8.'). {i, ^) 
Kaxgakoo, HaJmainrns bennctti, in tlio flesli. 

ZooLOdiCAL Society of riiiLADELPiiiA. (Througli Arthur Edwin jirown, 
Es(i.) 1(;:U2. '85. (iv) 
Daxalite, cyrtolite., cryophyllite, anuite, fergnsonite, magmitite, lluorife, liematite, 
aina/.oii-stouc and orthoclase, (Exchange.) 

William J. Kxowltox, Boston, Massacliusetts. IGSlo. '85. (xvi) 
Tor.ACco llfKisiiEAO and frame, used in Virginia in 1780 ; weight :?7."> pounds. 

Judge A. H. Hagxer, Washington. 1G;>14. '8.'>. (ii,a) 
I'lr.L i'"isii, Tctraptiiriis alhidiis, from Riiod(> Islainl. 

.IdSF.Rii WiiAKTov, Newport, Klioile Island. ir^U.'). '8.'). (vii) 

ll<)i;x rAiL, Trnnex cohimha, Linn. 

W. L. Williams, Windsor, North Carolina. IG:UG. '8.5. (x) 

ScouiMo.v, Six'ctrnm mtigale, larva, of sphinx, and 2 si)eeies of ants. 

Dr. .J. F. I5raxsfoi!I>, U. S. Navy (through A. G. Menof'ul, C. Iv). 1G:U7. 
'85. (X) 
Fishes, T(ir((f/onopic,ru.'i fascuitu.s, from Nicaragua. 

Dr. .1. F. Braxsfori), U. S. Navy (througli A. G. Menoeal, ('. E.). 1<;:!17. '85. 
(VII) 
WlXG AXI) CREST of Crax (jJohicera <^ , from Nicara-gua. 

Dr. J. F. Braxsfoud, U. S. Navy (through ;\. (i. Menoeal, (;. Iv ). IG:'.17. '85. 

(V,A) 

Uki'TILEs, IfelUina sp. (G spe(;imens), from Niear.igua. 

Dr. .1. F. I!i:axsfoi:I), U. S. Navy (througli A. G. Menoeal, C. E.). 1G:;17. 8.5. 
(VI) 



710 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Akch^OLOGICAl objects, flint liammcr-stones, flint cores, rude implements, cutting 
and drilling tools, and a large anvil-stoue; from Licking County, Ohio. 

Ky. Q. Smith, Augusta, Kentucky. 115318. 'do. (ii, a) 
BiRD-SKixs (50 specimens, 41 species), from various localities. (Exchange.) 

Charles K. Worthen, Warsaw, Illinois. 1«319. '85. (v, a) 
Bag- WORM, Thyridopferyx epliemercBformis. 

S. O. Deover, Washington. 16320. '85. (x) 
Fishes, Pinguipcs, Arius, Tylusuritu, I'olyneimts, and lioad, tail and dorsal fin of Pro mi- 
crops, from Central America. 

Dr. W. H. Jones, U. S. Navy. 16321. '8.-'.. (vii) 

Water snake, from Panama. 

Dr. W. H. Jones, U. S. Navy. 16321. '85. (vi) 
MvTii.us, Tapes, Tarpura, Leucoso'ma, etc., from Panama, Pern and Chili. 

Dr. W. H. Jones, U. S. Navy. 16321. '85. (x) 

Iron pyrite in cubes. 

L. M. Clements, Ceutreville, Alabama. 16322. '85 (xviii) 

Plant, probably Bourardki ovata, Gray. 

N. A. Thomson, Victoria, Texas. 16323. '85. (xvl 
Siberian Titmouse, Pariis cinctus (2 skins), from Yenesai, east Siberia, the first 
Bpecimtus received from that country. 

Henry Seebohm, London, England. 16324. '85. (v,a) 

Models of light-houses, light-ships, coftor-dam, crib, Miuot's ledge, etc., exhib- 
ited at New Orleans Exposition. 

Light-House Board, United States Treasury Department. 16325. '85. (i) 

Crystals of pyrite with dirt, hard clay carrying cubes of pyrites, and decomposed 
material colored black by manganese, for examination. 

W. H. EoBiNSON, Mariposa, California. 16326. '85. (xvii") 

Bird-skins, Pellonetta persjncillata, Coh/mhits avrltus and rti/corhanqyhus aleutirns, from 
California. 
John Mullan, Washington, District of Columbia. 16327. '85. (v, a) 

Mink, Putorius vison ; Oregon Mole, Seapanus toivnsendii, and li.it,Xycti}nomiis macroti 
(skins). 
John Mullan, Washington, District of Columbia. 16327. '85. (jv) 

MoLLUSK, Chiton Tcemierlyi, from California. 

John Mullan, Washington, District of Columbia. 16327. '85. (ix) 

Spider belonging to the laraniuJoidw and Prionus californicus, Mots. 

John Mullan, Washington, District of Colnmbia. 16327. '85. (ix) 

Crabs (2 siiecimens) and shell covered with coral, from California. 

John Mullen, Washington District of Columbia. 16327. '85. (xi) 

Stone implements, pities, gorgets, etc. (6 specimens). Returned. 
Mrs. Mary E. Butler, Chillicothe, Ohio. 16328. '85. (iii) 

Acadian Flycatcher, Empidonax acadicus (skin), for identification. 

John E. Ottaway, Amsterdam, New York. 16329. '85. (v, a) 

Rock, for examination. 

John T. Whitlock, Brandon, Vermont. 16330. '85. (xviii) 

Photographs of Rosa White Thunder (to show costume), (8 boudoir, 1 negative and 
1 cabinet). 
Indian Industrial School, Carlisle, P.-nnsylvani.i (through Capt. R. H. 
Pratt, U. S. A.). 16331. '85. (ii, a) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 711 

Ghecian bowl, from a toinb in Epbesus, and Grecian costiiino lound in a cavern in 
the castle ou the island of Kalymnos, Asia Minor. Probably nine centuries old. 
(Deposited.) 
N. Carandoxis, Kalymnos, Turkey. 16332. 'iSo. (ii, a) 
Seeds of the following 'plants : Olcaria sp. Alectnjon excdsum, Solatium aarkulare, 
Myoporum Lcotane, Veronica elliptica, Corynocarpiis lavUjata, Areca sapida, Pittos- 
pennnm Buchanani, Leptospernmm scoparlum, CordijUnc Australia, Lophom ictraptvra, 
PiUospermum tenuifolhim. 
Dr. William F. IIolcombe, New York, New York. 10333. '8.'). (xv) 
Fish, Coryphatna punctulata (skeleton), taken in the North Atlantic. 

U. S. Fish Commission. 16334. '8'). (xn) 
Fish, Caranx pisfjiietiis (2 skeletons). 

Isaaii Spindkl, Woods Holl, Mnssaclinsetts. 1633'). '85. (xii) 
FeuruginOUS quartz, coutainini;- crystalsof quartz and scales of hematite. 

James A. Ward, Heth, Douglas County, Missouri. 1633G. '8;'). (xviii) 
Plants. A very valuable general collection, containing more than a thousand spe- 
cies ; mainly from the West. 
William M. Canby, Wilmington, Delaware. 16337. '85. (xv) 
Decomposed ore. 

George W. Kittermax, Heth, Douglas County, Missouri. 1633S. '85. (xviii) 
Samuels' Song Sparrow, MeJospiza fasclala samueUs (8 skins) ; California Song Spar- 
row, M. heermanni (2 skins); Snowy Plover, ^gialitis nivosa (2 skins) ; California 
Clapper Rail, Kalhis obsoleius (3 downy young) ; and Cassin's Auk, PtucorliamphiiH 
aleitticits (2 skins). 
W. Otto Emersox, Haywards, California. 16339. '85. (v, a) 
Parasitic worm, taken from a rock-cod. 

Dr. W. H. Rush, U. S. Coast Survey. 16:?40. '85. (xi) 
Tooth of horse, found in a virgin forest near Lenoir, N. C, with sinular objects, 
and pottery, etc. 
J. M. Spainhour, Lenoir, North Carolina. 16341. '85. (iii) 
Damourite, margarite, tourmaline, vermicnlite, corundum, albite, ripidolite, spinel, 
phlogopite, picrolite, serpentine and <lrusy quartz ; from Chester County, Penn- 
sylvania. 

H. M. Ingram, U. S. National Museum. 16342. '85. (xvi) 

Mountain sheep, Black-tailed deer (2 specimens). Alpaca sheep, Llama, Chinese 
sheep, Spotted hyena, Black bear, Mule deer, Three prong-horn antelo])(\s, Mule 
antelope, Peccary, lynx and dog; (23 skins) from various localities. 

Museum of Compap.ative Zoology, Camltridge, Massachusetts (through A. 
Agassiz). 16343. '85. (iv) 
Prehensile-tailed Poiicupine, SynethereH mexicana, in the flesh. 

W. A. CoNKLiv, Central Park Menagerie, New York City. Ki.Ml. '85. (iv) 
Reptiles, Desmognathus vigra, Tropidoiiolns sipedon, Bufo nmericainis, Sprlrrprs riiht'r, 
and Chelydra serpentina (9 specimens); from Virginia. 
Col. M. McDonald, U. S. Fish Commission. 16345. '85. (vi) 
SUNFISHES, darters, bass, minnows, trout, suckers, fresli-watcn' s(mli)iiis; from Vir- 
ginia. 
Col. M. McDonald, U. S. Fisli Commission. 16345. '85. (vii) 
Crayflshes, worms, and amphipods ; from Virginia. 

Col. M. McDonald, IT S, I'MsIi (jominissiou. 16345. ('85). (xi) 
Fungus, from Virginia. 

Col. M. McDonald, IT. S. I'i^h Comniissidti. 16345. '85. (xv) 



712 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

Insects, from Virginia. 

Col. M. McDonald, U. S. Fish Coraniissiou. 16345. '85. (ix) 
Fossil Argonauta in indurated clay, from Lower California. 

C. R. Orcutt, San Difigo, California. ir)o4(). 'P5. (xiii, a) 
Larva of Gasteropacha sp. found under a live-oak tree near Atlantic coast. 

F. W. Lachicotte, Waverly Mills, Georgetown, South Carolina. 1(;347. '85. 
(X) 
Insect, Ehyssa atrata, J . 

M. C. Leach, Nineveh, Virginia. 16348. '85. (x) 
Sandstone containing carbonaceous matter and scales of mica. 

W. A. Ellis, Saint Albans, West Virginia. 16349. '85. (xviii) 
Fungus, order Hymenormjcetes, probably Jgaricus chrysop\yUus Fr., hollow stem. 

John Sutherland, 64 Liberty street, New York. 16350. '85. (xv) 

Lumbricoid Worm. 

L. O.Howard, Department of Agriculture. 16351. '85. (xi) 
FossiLiFEROUS LIMESTONE, for examination. 

Ayers and Hardman, White Pine, West Virginia. 16352. '85. (xvi) 

Fossils. 

Dr. J. C. Neal, Archer, Fla. (through Geological Survey). 16353. '85. (?) 

Fishes.* 

Imperial Academy OF Sciences, St. Petersburg, Russia. 16354. '85. (vi) 

Sandstone bearing impressions, probably of sticks and grasses. 
C. A. Hirschfelder, Toronto, Canada. 16355. '85. (iii) 

Impure Feldspar. 

P. S. Rexibus, Doan's, Texas. 16356. '85. (xvi) 

Iron Pyrites. 

R. B. Sandlin, Balloon, Arkansas. 16357. '85. (xvi) 
Bows AND Arrows, and tools used by Shasta Indians in making same. (Purchased.) 

L. W. Green, Baird, Shasta County, California. 163.58. '85. (ii, a) 

Larv^ of Datana ministra. 

J. C. Catlin, Ravenna, Ohio. 16359. '85. (x) 
Reptiles, including representations of Bitfo, Bana, Ambliistoma, Phrynosoma, Scelopo- 
rus, and Eameces fasciatus (382 specimens). 

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U. S. Army, Fort Wingate, Nc^w Mexico. 163G0. '85. ( vi) 
Bird Skins ; borrowed for study and returned. 

George N. Lawrence, New York City, New York. 16.361. '85. (v, a) 
RocKWOOD Pottery (6 specimens). (Exchange.) 

Women's Art Museum Association, Cincinnati, Oliio. 16302. '85. (ii,b) 
Water Moccasin, Tropidonotus .tipedon, from District of Columbia, and box tortoise, 
Euicf.nia sirtalis dorsalis, from Fairfax County, Virginia. 

L. M. Turner, Smithsonian Institution. 16363. '85. (vi) 

Insects (1,103 specimens). 

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U. S. Army, Fort Wingate, New Mexico. 16364. '85. (x) 
Royal Horned Caterpillar, atheroma rcgalis, uncommon in Illinois. 

E. B. Hoke, Cordova, Illinois. 16365. '85. (x) 
Prehensile-tailed Porcupine, Synethcres mexicanus, in the flesh. 

W. A. CONKLIN, Central Park, New York. 16366. '85. (iv) 
Garnets from Shantung Province, China; found in bed of stream. 
Dr. J. L. IIoldmes. 16367. '85. (xvi) 
* For further information concerning this accession see Report on Department of 
Fishes, page 169. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS- 713 

Garnet fouud in tlio bed of a small .stream in the vi(!inity of Fiiiij;eIio\v, Sliaufiiiis 
Province, Cliiua. 
Dr. J. L. Holmes (through O.T.Masou). 1G3G8. '85. (xvi) 
TouKMALiXE (3 specimens), from Minas Geraes, Brazil ; model of a diamond crystal ; 
crystals of feldspar (3) ; pseudomorph after lencite, from Magnet Cove, Arkansas. 
George F. Kuxz, Hoboken, New Jersey. 16369. '85. (xvi) 
Cancrixite, ehr-olite, sodalito (109 specimens), from, Litchfield, Maine. (Excliangc) 

Mrs. A. C. Merchant, South Litchfield, Maine. 16370. '85. (xvi) 
Scotch Sxuff used for " dipping" in the Southern States, said to contain a mild al- 
kali, intended to counteract the acid secretions of the mouth. (Purchased.) 

IVERY, OWEX & Co., Lynchburgh, Virginia (through W. F. Page). 16371. 
•S.->. (II, a) 
Lizard and small snake, from Point Reyes, California. 

Dr. C. Hart Meruiam, Sing Sing, New York. 16372. '85. (vi) 
Fish. Fffital viviparous perch, Emhiotocoid, from Point Reyes, California. 

Dr. C. Hart Mkrkiam. Sing Sing, New York. 16372. '85. (vii) 
Cuban Parrot, Chrysoiis Icucocephala, in the flesh. 

W. C. Weeden, U. S. National Museum. 16373. '85. (v,a) 

Pipe made of mottled stone. (Exchange.) 

D. S. Carvix, Lyons, Ohio. 16374. '85. (iii) 
Whitxey's Pigmy Owl, Micrathcne wldtneyi, from Tucson, Arizona. 

Zoological Society oe PiiiLADELniiA (through Arthur Edwin Brown, Es(i.), 
16375. '85. (V, A) 
Browx-iieaded Nuthatch, Sitta pnsilla (3 specimens), and Western Sandi)ii)er, 
Ercunctes occidentalis (3 specimens). 

H. M. Smith, U. S. National Museum. 16376. '85. (v, a) 
Nest axd I']ggs of Ti-aill's and Acadian Flycatchers, Empidonax traiUii .and E. aradicuf^. 

Dr. .J. C. Merrill, U. S. Army, Columbus Barracks, Oliio. 16377. '85. (v,b) 
Eggs of Franklin's Gull, Larus franJclinii (3 sets). (Exchange.) 

J. W. Prestox, Baxter, Iowa. 16378. '85. (v, n) 
Shale found in conglomerate and millstone grit, for examination. 

Newtox DUXYON, Tooele City, Utah. 16379. '85. (xvii) 
Arrowheads (10), scrapers (2), and leaf-shaped implements (2). 

K.(^. Smith, Augusta, Kentucky. 16380. '85. (in) 

IxsKCT. l(;3SL "85. (X) 

PltoroGUArilS (10 small i)lates) of Hint implements found at H.'ikodnte, island of .lesso. 

E. Amsdkx, Yokohama, Japan. 16382. '85. (in) 

I?ATS. 

H. L. Prestox, 2 College avenue, Rochester, New York. 16383. '85. (iv) 

(Jrkkn IIero.v, IlntoridtH i-irrsGtns (skin), from District of Columbia. 

Clakknce Burke, 710 H street, Washington. 16384. '85. (v,a) 
Cuban Paruots, Chriisotin lencocephala (4 specimens), in the flesh. 

W. C. WiCKDEN, U. S. National Museiur.. 1638.5. '85. (v, a) 
Insects, Erantria caadefacla (1 specimen), I'liralUlw (2 spc^cimens), and Timidd' (1 
specimen). 

Howard Shkiver, Wytheville, Vii'ginia. 16:',S(). '85. (x) 
Red Bat, Atalaphn novchoraecnuh, in the (lesh. 

C. A. STEUARr, Smithsonian Institution. 16:587. '85. (iv) 
I'MiMl'.AGO and products from the grai)hit<'. worlcs, Bloomingdale. New .Jersey. 

15LO0MIXGDALK GRAPHITE COMPANY, Bloomingil.'ile, New Jersey. |(i;{S8. '8.5. 

(XVIII) 



714 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

Birds (35 species, 48 specimeus). Several species new to Mie collection, from various 
localities. 

H. K. CoALE, Chicago, Illinois. ,10389. '85. (v, a) 
MiSFiCKEL, or arsenical pyrite, from Harney Peak district, Dakota. 

Samuel Scott, Rapid City, Dakota. 16390. '85. (xviii) 
Quartz, impure feldspar, and hornblende. 

J. G. Settles, Doans, Texas. 16391. '85. (xvi) 
Indian Strainer used by Apache Indians in the preparation of " tis\vin,"an intox- 
icating drink made from the mescal plant. 

Maj. B. J. D.Irwin, U.S. Army, Whipple Barracks, Arizona. 16392. '85. (ii,a) 

Quartz Crystal, and two groups of quartz crystals, from Natural Bridge, Virginia. 
Myron B.W. Hough, Washington, District of Columbia. 16393. '85. (xvi) 

Serpentine Ornament, from San Francisco, California. 

R. E. C. Stearns, U. S. National Museum. 16394. '85. (xvi) 
Crania (513) and skeletons (322) representing North American vertebrates, and 
including birds, mammals, fishes, and reptiles. (Exchange.) 

Army Medical Museum, Washington, District of Columbia, tlu-ough Dr. John 
S. Billings, U. S. A., Curator. 16395. '85. (xii) 
Aluminum, illustrating the Frishmuth process of extracting this material from its 
ores. 

Col. William E. Frishmuth, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 16396. '85. (xviii) 
Richardson's Spermophile, Spermophilus ricltardsoni. 

Charles Ruby, Fort D. A. Russell, Wyoming Territory. 16397. '85. (iv) 
Insect ; for examination and report. 

John C. Schermerhorn, Council Blnfts, Iowa. 16398. '85. (x) 
Fossil coal. 

Court Hamilton, Bunker Hill, West Virginia. 16399. '85. (xiv) 
Insects, from Wytbeville, Virginia. 

Col. M. McDonald, U. S. Fish Con)mission. 16400. '85. (x) 

Crustacea, from Wytheville, Virginia. 

Col. M. McDonald, U. S. Fish Conmiission. 16400. '85. (xi) 
Mammals, Vesperugo georgianus (2 specimens), from Wytheville, Virginia. 

Col. M. McDonald, IT. S. Fish Commission. 16400. '85. (iv) 

Bat, KgctinoiHus hrasUiensis, from Mexico. 

Prof. Alfred DuGES, Guanajnato, Mexico. 16401. "85. (iv) 

Fishes, from Mexico. 

Prof. Alfred Duces, Guanajuato, Mexico. 16401. '85. (vii) 

CoLEOPTERA, from Mexico. 

Prof. Alfred Duofcs, Guanajuato, Mexico. 16401. 'R5. (x) 
BiiiDs, Icterus cucullatus 9, Xantlwceplialm xanthocephalns, Dcndroica o'silva, I'haino- 
pepla nitens, Calamospiza. hicolor, Sni/ornis nigricans, Crolophagaani, Ortyx graysoHi, 
Falco sparverius, Accipiter fuscus, lihifacaphilits solilarins (11 speciiixms, 11 species). 

Prof. Alfred DuGi!:s, Guanajuato, Mexico. 16401. '85. (v, a) 
Devil Fish, probably Octopus punctatus Gabb., from western coast of Mexico. 

Prof. Alfred DuGi;s, Guanajuato, Mexico. 16401. '85. (ix) 
Plants (sent to S. Watson, Harvard University, for identification). 

Prof. Alfred Dugics, Guanajuato, Mexico. 16401. '85. (xv) 
Reptiles, Flaps fulviits, Eiitwnia puIchrUatus, and E. sirtopis, from Mexico. 

Prof. Alfred Duoiis, Gnanajuato, Mexico. 16401. '85. (vi) 
P'ossiL, BaciiUtcs ovatns S:iy, from the Colorado group of the Cretaceous. 

Miss May Halsted, Lexington, Mississippi. 16402. '85. (xiii, A) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 715 

IxsF.CT, Therapbosoid, probably new. 

J. B. BOWMAX, Aleman, Now Mexico. 1G403. "8."). (x) 

Flexible Sandstone. 

S. M. DuGGER, Bauuer's Elk, Watuaga Couuty, North Carolina. 1G404. '8.'). 
(XVII) 
Ki'.i.p Parchment, prepared for ])riutinj;- ; the fii-st made in the United States. 

James G. Swan, Port Townsend, Wasbiugton. 1G405. '85. (i) 
Kaolin (2 specimens), bog- iron ore (2 specimens), and compact linionite (44 s])eci- 
nien.s). 
Frank Burns, IT. S. Geological Survey. 1G40G. '8;'.. (xvi) 
SriDER, Epcira, probably viraiica. 

Lewis R. Giurs, Jr., 28 Corning street, Charleston, Sonth Carolina. IGIOT. '85. 
(X) 
Insects (13 vials), from Panama. 

Dr. George \V. Nelson, Mazatlan, Mexico, and Dr. Wolfred Nelson, New 
York City, New York. 1G408. '8.'). (x) 
Reptiles, Biifo (1 specimen), and Doidrohtitif: tinvforiiiK (4 s]ieciniens), from l^anama. 
Dr. George W. Nelson, Mazatl.in, Mexico, and Dr. Woi.fri:!) Nelson, New 
York City, New York. 1G408. ',<>. (vi) 
Bird, Troclialopteron rufignJare, a. s])ecies of T'nnrliidir, fioiii (lu^ llimabiya Mountains. 
New to the collection. 
George N. Lawrence, New York, New York. 1G4(19. '8.5. (v, a;; 
Damourite, lepidolite, cookeite, cleavlandite, triphyliti', lci)idonielane, tri[>o]itf, 
topaz, beryl, tourmaline, zircon, niuscovite, apatite, vesuvianite, ea,ssiterite, 
gahnite, columbite, etc. (40 specimens). 
N. n. Perry, South Paris, Maine. 1G410. V5. (xvi) 
Insect, '' Walking-stick," Viapheromera fcmorala. 

William Rear, Nashville, Tennessee. l()4n. '8.',. (x) 
Plant, Black Knot, Sjyhuria morhosa, also Poljiporus sp. 

Mrs. M. E. Wing, Charlotte, Vermont. 1G412. '85. (xv) 
Ethnological Objects: Shoes, slippers, stockings, brass penholder, inkstand and 
reed pens, fez caps, cotton skull-caps, hubble-bubble pipe, long pipe-stem, pipe- 
bowls, pa])er lantern, shepherd's sheepskin coat, jMohanimedan charm, etc., from 
Egypt and the Holy Land. 

Otis BiGELOW, W.-ishington, District of Columbia. IGIK'. '8.'). (ii, a) 

Mammals, Lynx rufus and Ciitioruijfi ImloricUtnufi (skins). 

Charles K. WoRTiiEN, Wars.-iw, Illinois. 1G4I4. '85. (iv) 

CiiAYEiSHES, from Wythevilhi,' Virginia. 

Col. iL McDonald, IT. S. Fish Commission. 1G415. '85. (xi) 
FiTNGUS, from AVythcville, Virginia. 

Col. M. McDonald, U. S. Fish Commission. 1G115. '85. (xv) 
Insects, from 'Wytheville, Virginia. 

CV)1.M. McDonald, IT. S. Fish CouHuission. 1G415. '8.5. (x) 
Shells, Physa heteroHtropha Say, from Wytheville, Virginia. 

Col. M. McDonald, U. S. Fish Commission. 16415. '8.5. (ix) 
Reptiles, Coluber ohsolefiis, TropUlonoUis sipcdon, Carphopliiops amoeiiiis, Jlana cait-s- 
hiana, Bascanium constrictor, Dcuniof/iKitluiH fnsra, a,nd Sjxilcrpcs longicnndii)^, from 
Wytheville, Virginia. 

Col. M. McDonald, U. S. Fish Commission. 1G415. '85. (vi) 
Quartz (2 specimens), quartzite, shale, diloritc, and menaccannitc (2 specimens), 
from Loudoun County, Virginia. 

F. W. True, IT. S. N.'itional Museum. liilK;. "85. (xvii) 



716 EEPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Seals, Fhoca groenlandicn {2 skins). 

Dr. C. Hart Merriam, Locust Grove, New York. 1C417. '8.^). (iv) 
Birds, Tardus pallasi, Vireo olivaccus, Mijiarclius crinitus, Empidonax flavivcnlrin, Con- 
topusvirens, Spliyropicus rarius (7 specimens), from New Hampshire. 

W. H. Fox, Washington, District of CohimWa. 16418. '8.5. (v, a) 
Imture Quartz, containing pyrite and sphalerite. 

D. W.M. Wright, Holly Brook, Bland County, Virginia. 1G419. '85. (xvi) 
Insects, Macro-lepjidoptcra (20 species), collected in California by Mr. Charles Fuchs, 
of San Francisco. 

JOHX B. Smith, U. S. National Museum. 16420. '8.5. (x) 
Copper Ornament, from a mound in Greenup County, Ky. 

W. Kinney, Scioto County, Ohio. 16421. '85. (iii) 
Pisolite and Oolite, and concretionary forms of calcite. 

A. B. QuiNAN, Dillon, Montana. 16422. '85. (xvi) 
KOCKS. (Exchange.) 

H. M. Malling, Portland, Maine. 16423. '85. (xvii) 
Fossil Plants, from the coal-measures of Indiana, and casts of plants in coal. 

Fletcher M. Noe, 130 East New York street, Indianapolis, Indiana. (Sent to 
Professor Lesquereaux.) 16424. '85. (xiv) 
Chalcocite, liornite, quartz, chalcopyrite, calcite, clay, copal and strontianite (45 
specimens). 

Government of Costa Rica (through L. C. Quiutero, United States vice-con- 
sul). 16425. '85. (XVI) 
Rattlesnake, Crotalus conflucntn-i (skin, without head), from Colorado. 

Miss Dottie Blackburn (through Col. J. Stevenson). 16426. '85. (vi) 

Diabase, from Lewiston, Maine. 

George P. Merrill, U. S. National Museunu 16427. '85. (xvii) 
Limestone Conglomerate, from West Virginia. 

Frank Smith, Cincinnati, Ohio. 16428. '85. (xviii) 
Ear of Rabbit, Lcpits sp., with three abnormal horny growths upon it. 

G, HiLLJE, Schulenburgh, Texas. 16429. '85, (iv) 
Ceremonial Object of stone nearly rectangular, from Madison County, Indiana, 
and ceremonial weapon resembling a double axe, from Jefferson County, Indiana. 

George Spangler, Madison, Indiuua. 16430. '85. (iii) 
Black Tourmaline, from Ashe County, North Carolina. 

Donor unknown. 16431. '85. (xvi) 

Vanadate of Lead, from Zacatecas, Mexico. 

Dr. H.G.TORREY, U.S. Mint, New York. u;i:!2. '85. (xviii) 

Auriferous Calcite. 

Col. George L.Shoup, Salmon City, Idaho. 16433. '85. (xviii) 

Crystalline lens of a Ceplialopod, from Peru. 

George F. Kunz, New York, New York. 16434. '85. (ix) 

Fish, Ftcroph-ynoidcs histrio, from the Gulf of Mexico. 

Rev. Dr. Hinsdale, Biloxi, Mississippi. 1G435. '85. (vii) 

Siliceous Concretion. 

C. C. Hoffmeister, Mossy Creek, .JcfVtirsou Coimty, Tennessee. 16436. '85. 
(XVII) 

Bird-skins (29 species, 30 specimens). 

Capt. Charles E. Bendire, U. S. Anuy, Fort Custer, Montana. 16437. '85. 

(V,A) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 717 

BlUDs' Eggs ("21 sixjcios), Oroseoj^lcs moiitanHs, llaiiHirJnincluni riifus, .inllnts iiuh>- 
viciaiius, Icleria virciis, Leucoatictv australis, Ckoudcutes (jrammica atri;j<it<i, Splcdld, 
brcweri, I'ipilo maciilatas arcdcus, Zamelodia melanocephala, I'asiarnia (ihkiiki, 
Calaiiiospiza hicolor, AgelaiuH phocniceus, IctcruHtbuUockL Qtiiscalini purpureux (rueim, 
Corvuii friKjivonis, I'crlsoreus obscurnii, Eremophila alpcstris arcnicola, Kinpidonax 
miiiinmn, Colajites auralii-s hybridus, Coccyztis cruthrophthaJmus, Asio aiiu;ricanu>i, 
Scops asio maxwcUiiP, Accipiter coopcri, Batco swainsoni, with two exc-e[)tu»iis, (Vom 
the vicinity of Fort Castor, Moutuua. 
Capt. Charles E. Bendire, U. S. Army, Fort Custer, Moutaiui. 1(;4:;7. 'a.'j. 

Notched Sinker, rude implomeuts (5), cutters (4), and arrowheads (5). 
A. F. Berlin, AlhMitowu, Pcnusylvania. 10438. '85. (in). 

Water, for analysis. 

Emzy Taylor, Georgetown, Texas. 164oL>. '8.'). (xvi) 

Crustacea, from Wayuesborough, Virginia. 

Col. M. McDonald, U. S. Fish Commission. 1G440. '8.'). (xi) 
MiNNuWS, trout, darters, bass, sunfishos, suckers, etc. ; i'rom Wayuesl)or<Higli, Vir- 
ginia. 

Col. iM. McDonald, U. S. Fisli Commission. 16440 '85. (vii) 
liErriLivS, luina vatesbiana ("i specimens) ; from Wayuesborough, Virginia. 

Col. M. McDonald, U. S. Fish Commission. 1()440. '85. (vi) 
Shells, innnature Vivipara ; from Wayuesborough, Virginia. 

Col. M. McDonald, U. S. Fish Commission. 10440. '85. (ix) 
Spear Heads (2), and leaf-shaped implements (2), and a copper chisel, ot which 
casts were made in the Museum. 

J. L. DeWitt, Newton, Vernon County, Wisconsin. 10441. '85. (iii) 
Archaeological Ob.jects, from France. 

Thomas Wilson, U. S. Consul, Nice, France. 10142. '85. (iii) 
Insects, Xamrslra atlantlca Git., Iladcna dcrastafrixBrmiO,!!. diibitans Walk.,' 'Iirijlolila 
IK'lnaJis (lit., llioula propliiqnaUs Gu., from New York. 

Dr. C. S. McKnight, Saranac Lake, New York. 1044;5. '85. (x) 

I'KRRl'iilNolS (.^>CARTZ1TE. 

.Ia.mks p. Dickinson, Guttenberg, Clayton County, New York. 10414. '85. 

(XVII) 

Iridos.mink. 

Allkx D. WoLcoir, liandoiph, Oregon. 10445. '85. (xviii) 
I>ii:i)S, Sidlid iircUcd. L'liiiHs borcalis, Carpodacus cassini, iSjihius ai'izono', I'lpUo ineijalo- 
iii/.r i'dlio ricliunl'^Diii, O.ciiwJius vocife.'us (0 specimens, 7 species). 

Dr. K. W. Shci'eldt, IJ. S. A. Fort Wingate, New Mexico. 1()440. '85. 

(V,A) 

Black Pern, Ifudroclididoii snrhiamciisis (skin) from Tuckanuck Island, Massachusets. 

WiLLARD Nye, Jr., New Bedford, Massachusetts. 10447: '85. (v, a) 
NKsr of IJluc (irosbi^ak, friiiraca cwruica, Crom Gaiuesvillt!, Virginia, with photograph. 

R. JiiDGWAV, U. S. NationalMuseuni. 10448. '85. (v, b) 
Pater made from Indian corn fiber. 

Sanderson Smith, New Haven, Connecticut. 10441). '85. (i) 
Necklace of old wampum beads, from Mohawk Indians, New York. 

Otis T. Ma.son, U. S. National Museum. 104.50. '85. (XVil) 
Serpentine (B? specimens) and basalt (4 specimens), from Hoboken, New Jersey. 

George P. Merrill, U. S. National Museum. 10451. '85. (xvii) 
Hewn Planks, illustrating aboriginal methods of lumbering. 

Miles Kock, Panama. 1G452. '85. (n, a) 



718 KEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

PiKD-BiLLED GuEBE, Fodihjmhus liodiceps (head, foot, aud wing). 

James W. Rogan, Eodjjcrsville, Tennessee. 1(5454. '8r>. (v, a) 
Cori'ER Beads (6), perforated bear's teeth (2), bone pendants (2), aud two pieces of 
sheet silver which are of speci^il interest, being the Ihst of the kind given to the 
^Iiiseuni. 

J. L. De Witt, Newton, Vernou County, Wisconsin. 10455. '85. (vii) 
Northern Phalarope, Lohipes lohatus, aud Avocet, liccurcirostris americana, in the 
llesh. 

I. B. Bowman, Aleman, New Mexico. 1G45G. '65. (V, a) 

DuLUTH Gabbeo, froiu Duluth, Miuuesota. 

Prof. N. H. WiNCMELL, Minneapolis, Minnesota. 164.57. '85. (xvii) 
Squash, reseuibliug a duck in shape. 

Thomas Schley and W. T. Delaplaine, Frederick, Maryland. 1C458. '85. 

(XV) 

Chalcedony auddrusy quartz on chalcedony. 

T. A. Britt, Jacksonville, Florida. 164.59. '85. (xvi) 
Fishes, Semotilus buUaris, Amhirus, Eoccus, Fundidus, lihinichthys, Hxjhognathus, 
Boleosoma, and Notemigonus. 

Benjamin Miller, Washington, District of Columbia. 16460. '85. (vii) 

MoLLUSK, Tivela crassatelloides, Conrad, bored by a predaceous mollusk. 

James R. Townsend, Los Augeles, California. 16461. '85. (ix) 
Albino woodpecker, Centurus carolinus, Linn. 

Theo. Lienknecht, Oliver Springs, Tennessee. 16462. '85. (v, a) 
SouA Rail, Porzana Carolina, in the flesh. 

T. E. Skinner, Sinithsoniau Institution. 16463. '85. (v, a) 

Equine Antelope, Hippotragus cquinus, in the flesh. 

Barnum, Bailey & Hutchinson, Bridgexiort,Counecticut. 16464. '85. (iv) 
Hydronephelite w^ith sodalite in Elajolite syenite; from Litchfield, Maine. 

T.F.Lamb, Portland, Maine. 16465. '85. (XYi) 
Skulls and Bones. 16466. '85. (.xii) 
Larva of Flatysamia cccropia, 

C. L. Kilmer, Little, Nebraska. 1G467. '85. (x) 
Cannon and gun carriage made of ti-avertine, from the Rock of Gibraltar. 

Horatio J. Sprague, United States Consul, Gibraltar, Spain. 16468. '85. 

(XVI) 

Fishes, Siphostoma fudvtts, aad Monocanthus hii^pidus. 

Herbert M. Knowles, keeper life-saving station. Point Judith, Rhode Island. 
16469. '85. (VII) 
Larva oi Phohetron pitheciam, A. & S. 

S. D. Haskin, Watcrville, Minnesota. 16470. '85. (x) 
Siliceous pebble. 

Charles Miller, jr., Sanborn, New York. 16471. '85. (xviii) 
Bird, Lagopiis aJpinus, from Savoy. (Exchange.) 

F. A. Lucas, U. S. National Museum. 16472. '85. (v, a) 
Silk Knitting-machine. 

A. A. Duly, U. S. National Museum. 16473. '85. (i) 
Meadow IjARK, SturneUanegltcta. 

GuSTAV EisEX, Fresno, California. 16474. '85. (v, a) 
Lamprey Eel, Ichthi/omi/zon, from Bear Creek, Grayson County, Kentucky. 

J. B. Marcou, U. S. National Museum. 16475. '85. (vii) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 711) 

WoKMs, IVom Boar CrtH-k, Graysou Ci)iiuty, Kentucky. 

J. Ij. Makcou. IJ. S. Geological Survey. 1G475. "a."), (xi) 
I'ui'A of Lucanua elcpkas. 

WoitTlI Stickley, .Madi.soiiville, Texas. U)47(J. '«,'>. (X) 

CULCKCIIKI': Cuoss-uow. 

AcADE.MY oi'' Natuual SCIENCES, Stockholm, Sweden, tLiroiigh F. A. Siiiilh. 
11)477. '8.'). (II, A) 
Biuu-SKIXS iVoui Samoa, as Collows: Sirix dclicatula, Ilalci/oii raciirrironlra, I'Jndiiiia- 
mns laitiennis, PtUolia caniiwulaia, Myzomcla ni(jricciitrh, I'lia'ctlion Jiaviroatri^, and 
Anos sttperciliosa. (10 specimens.) 

Dr. T. Canisius, Cliicago, Illinois. 1(3478. '85. (v, a) 
Salted Fishes and Shrimps. 

D. J. Macgowax, Weuchow, China. 1(J47'J. '85. (i) 
AnOKiGix.VL implements, material containing pieces of mica, and stone used for 
making mauls for obtaining mica. 
JOH.V C WiGGixs, Chula, Amelia County, Virginia. 1G480. '85. (iii) 
American Bittern, Bofaurus Jentiginosus ; from the Potomac marshes, District of 
Columbia. 
T. E. Skixxer, Smithsonian Institution. 16481. '85. (V, a) 
MiLLERiTE, from the "Gap mine," Lancaster, Pennsylvania. 

Capt. John Williams. Lancaster, Pennsylvania. 10482. '85. (xviii) 
"Dish-rag Gourd," Luffa wgypiica. 

B. C. Sparrow, Washington, District of Columbia. 16483. '85. (xv_) 
Pksite, polishing stones (2), disk-shaped, natural formation, arrowhead, sinkers (2) 
(5 specimens) ; from Alabama. 
Frank Burns, U. S. Geological Survey. 1G484. '85. (iii) 
Carved Teak-wood Table,* with marble top ; from China. 

16485. '85. (I) 

Clay Pipes,* from Holland. 

16486. '85. (II, A) 

Dried Fungi* (over 100 specimens). 

Carl Schwalb, Hungary. 16487. '85. (xv) 
AuTO.MATic SteamHeatek* for railway cars (model). 

Michael liLEXNEUiiASSET Hurley, Quebec, Canada. 16488. '85. (ii,a) 
Ceke.moxial Objects, carved stone tablet, and weapon with incised ligures, tlie so- 
called " Buttertly " (casts). 

Dr. L. B. Welch, Wilmington, (Jlinton County, Ohio. 16481). '85. (iii) 
Confections. * 

Flli. Ferro e Cassanello, Genoa, Maly. 164'J0. '85. (i) 
Wool,* from Australia (2 Ueoces). 

16491. '85. (I) 
Woolen Goods,* from Australia. 

164'J2. '85. (I) 
Artificial Building Stones,* from Germany. 

164U3. '85. (XVII) 
Mica,* large sheet, from Cana<la. 

1(;4"J4. '85. (XVI) 
Nails,* forged; wire, tacks and rivets. 

Anony.mous Society oe Blacksmiths, Franche Comtd, France. 164'J5. '85. 

(XVIII) 



Reooive(j froiiji New Orloij,ij.^ t^xposition through State Department. 



720 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

fSCKKW DKIVEKS.* 

G. Mader ANO MiJLLEii, Sclimalkaldeu, Geriuauy. 164%. 'd5. (ii,a) 
SicsAME Oil,* Semmum orienialc (2 bottles), aud peauut-oil; Arachis hypotjwa (6 bot- 
tles). 
D. Gross Sc Co., Marseilles, France. 16497. '«5. (i) 

Cement,* from Italy. 

16498. '85. (I) 

KoYAL Papkico Spice" from Buda Pest, made by Marpo A:, Wydeii ; aud " Moorish 
uatioual food." 
1649d. '85. (I) 
Mammal Skins,* from Australia. 

16499. '85. (I) 

Seeds,* from tlie Experimeutal Gardens of Sweden. 

16500. '85. (I) 

Textiles.* 

16501. '85. (I) 

liiKD-SKlNS, Lophoj)ha'nes diclirous, Cerihia Idmalayaiia, IS an He utv run Jlaccolnti, I'rimip.'i 
tjraculiuus, Sijcobrotus kersteni, Musopliaga vioJavca, Schizorhis zoiittms, .s'. ofrinana, 
Orttjcjarchus mangle, Aramides nigricans; from various localities. 
Dr. E. Key, Leipzig, Germany (purchased). 16502. '85. (v,a) 
Mammal Skins, Futorius vison (2 specimens). 

M. BowsKY, Now York, New York. 16503. '85 (iv) 
SwOKD of sword-cano found at the bottom of the Delaware River near llic inoutli id' 
the Brandy wine, covered with about four inches of barnacles. 
A. A. Duly, National Museum. 16504. '85. (i) 
SvvoHD and Scacbaud, captured at the battle of Tripoli by Commandc-i- Di-caiur .md 
presented by him to the grandfather of the donor. 

Joseph H. Brown, U. S. National Museum. 10505. '85. (i) 

Minerals. 

State OF NoRTU Carolina. (Through Colonel P. M.Wilson, Raleigh, Nmih 
Carolina.) 16506. '85. (xvi) 
Marble. 

W. S. Yeates, U. S. National Museum. 16507. '85. (xvii) 

Minerals. 

Prof. Josifi BoNiLLA, Zacatecas, Mexico. 16508. '^5. (xvi) 
Steatite,* kaolin, stibnite, wavellite, uovaculite, fibrous gypsum and celcslile. 
(115 specimens). 

State OP Arkansas. (Through Dr. J. Guy Lewis.) 16509. '85. (xvi) 
Corundum and Kyanite (3 specimens), from near Powder Springs, Cobb County, 
Georgia. 

N. P. Pratt, Atlanta, Georgia. 16510. '85. (xiv) 
Catlinite, Thomsonite pebbles, and Thomsouite pebbles in ti-ap. 

State of Minnesota. (Through Prof. N. H. Winchell.) 16511. '85. (xvi) 
Magnetite, from Champion Mine, Marquette County, Michigan. 

F. W. Noble, Detroit, Michigan. 16512. '85. (xiv) 
Publications.! Four volumes of the Swiss National Museum, at Zurich. 

George L. Catlin, United States Consul, Zurich, Switzerland. 16513. '85. (V) 
Minerals, t from Japan. 

Thomas B. Van Buren, Consul-general, Kauagawa. 16514. '85. (xai) 
Book of Photographs, t from Palermo. 16515. '85. (ii, a-) 

* Received from the New Orleans Exposition. 

tBeceiv^ed from tlie New Qrleaais Exposition through Department of State. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 721 

Kifsii Tai;!,!:, fniiii China. 1()51G. '•■?">. (ii, a) 

Tooi'ii of rercnl horse, Kipi us cuhal Ins, animvior iiiohir ; also siimples ol" coal foruui- 
tion. 

Dr. A. V.v.x Clkkf, Scranton, Pounsylviiiiiii. KiolT. ',S.5. (iv) 
Cauomxa Wren, Thrijothorus ludoriclanus, from Branchvillo, Maryland. 

Dr. T. H. Ceax, U. S. National Museum. 16518. '85. (v,a) 

Teuukstrial Gloiie.* 10511). '85. (i) 

MxVTEiu.v Medica;*' 01. Eacahipfi, Si/r. Eucalypti rostratw, Syr. Eucal upli (jlobuli {^V pint 

each) ; Giimmi Eucalypti rostvatw (4 ounces) ; (rummi Eucalypti oblkpuv (2 ounces) ; 

Eacalyptine (} ounce); 01. Atherosperm. moscli. (jounce); Eucalyptus disinfectant 

pastilles (G); lied gum lozenges (4 ounces); Resina Piui calitritis {2 oiuices) ; and 

bos of pure carhouate of magnesia. 16519. '85. (i) 
jEWFiSH.t Promicrops itaiara; from Newport, Rhode Island. 

E. G. Blackford, 80 Fulton Market, New York. 16520. '85. (vii) 

Seeds and gum,* from Sierra Leone, Africa. 16521. '85. (i) 
Tapa Cloth,* from Sandwich Islands. 16522. '85. (ii, a) 
Rude Harp* used by the natives of Chamula, Chiapas, Mexico. 

Commission of Chiapas, Mexico. 16523. '85. (i) 
Ramie Products,* illustrating the ramio industry. 

C. Andree, agent. 16524. "85. (i) 
Russian Yoke* for three-horse vehicle. 

Charles G. Hoffmann, agent for Russia. 16525. '85. (ii,a) 
Seeds .\nd Fibers*, from Teheran, Persia. 

1652(3. '85. (I) 
LiMONiTE,* micaceous hematite, magnetite, galena, native copper, chalcoi)yrite, 
asphaltum, boruite, ulexito, quartz, pyrolnsite, orthoclase, seleuite, garnet, pyr- 
rhotite and turquoise, from Persia. 

16527. '85. (XVI) 
Rocks* (2 specimens) from Persia. 

16527. '85. (xvii) 
Fos.siL Plants* (2 specimens) from Persia. 

16527. '85. (XIV) 

Peas and beans* from Kingston, Jamaica. 

16528. '85. (I) 

Carbonate of Magnesia* (15 pounds). 

Thomas Jennings, Cork, Ireland. 16521). "85. (i) 

Carpological SPEClMENS,t produced by W. R. Guilfoyle, F. R. S., Director of the 
Botanical Gardens, Victoria, Australia. 
Government of Victoria, Victoria, Australia. I(;5;!0. '85. (xv) 

Seal Oils* and (ish guano, from Newfoundland. 
16531. '85. (I) 

Sugar and Rum.* 

Samuel Barber & Co., Georgetown, Demerara. 165:52. '85. (i) 

Chicory Root,* kiln dried, and prepared chicory. 
16533. '85.. (I) 

* Received from the New Orleans Exposition through the Department of State. 
tFor further information couferning this acc-ossion see report on Department of 
Fishes, page 167. 
{Received from the New Orleans IJxposil ion. 

H. Mis. 170, pi. 2 4(; 



722 REPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Cotton Fabuics,* from Russia. 

1G534. '85. (I) 
Palmetto Cord,* from Africa. 

1653.5. '85. (I) 
Sulphur,* cinnabar, etc. (22 specimeusj. 

PiETRO Marano, Catania. 1G536. '85. (i) 
Crochet Lace,* Irish. 

DUYER & Co., Corlv, Ireland. 1G537, '85, (i) 

Candied Fruits.* from Italy. 

Giuseppe Bruno, Palermo, Italy. 10538. '85. (i) 

Taro Flour.* 

Alden Fruit and Taro Company, Wailuku, Hawaiian Islands. 16539. '85. 

(I) 
Candied Fruits,* from Italy. 

Gav. Sal. Re Guildi, Palermo, Italy. 16540. '85. (i) 

Canned Goods,* from Germany. 

J. H. Pillman, Braunschweig, Germany. 16541. '85. (i) 

Thermometers.* 

16542. '85. (I) 

Rubber Goods,* 8ami)le8. 

Leyland Rubber Company, Preston, Lancashire, England. 16543. '85. (i) 

Seines* (48), from Scotland. 

J. AND W. Stuart, Musselburgh, Scotland. 16544. '85. (i) 
Carved Gourds* (5), from the Sandwich Islands. 

16545. '85. (II, A) 

Fibers.* 

E. COR^T, Bologue, France. 16546. '85. (ii, a) 
Woolen and Cotton Goods,* from Austria-Hungary. 

16547. '85. (I) 

Chinese "God of War"* and palankeen, lacquered and silvered. 

16548. '85. (I) 

Java Tea,* rice, indigo, cinchona bark, gum da mar, copal, India rubber, etc. 

W. SCHOFFER & Co., Rotterdam, Netherlands. 16549. '85. (i) 
Hand Loom,* from Africa; and map, from Vienna. 

16550. '85. (II, A) 
Liquors and Maraschino Essence.* 

16550. '85. (I) 
Crystallized Potash.* 

16550. '85. (xviii) 
Magnesium Sulphate with sodium chloride, from mineral water, from Palo Pinto 
County; for examination. 

D. II. Gibson, Mineral Wells, Texas. 16551. '85. (xvi) 

Birds' Nests (9 specimens). 

Charles W. Richmond, Washington, District of Columbia. 16552. '85. (v, b) 

Sagenetic Quartz. 

Robert Claywell, Morganton, North Carolina. 16553. '85. (xvi) 
Insects, Macro-lepidoptera, mostly Noctuidce, from the Adirondack Mountains. 

Dr. C. S. Mcknight, Sarauac Lake, New York. 16554. '85. (x) 

* Received from New Orleans Exposition through Department of State. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 723 

Woods.* 

Maj. A. J. Studer, United States Consul, Singapore, India. 10555. '85. (xv) 

WooDEX Shoes.* 

Maj. A. J. Studer, United States Consul, Sing:ipore, India. 1G555. '85. (ii,a) 

liKi) Fossil Ore, and brown ore; for examination, 

Hon. J. T. Morgan, Wasliingtoii, District of Columbia. 1055(5. '85. (.win) 

Fossil Bones: shoulder-blade, metacarpal, etc., of a liorsti ; [irobaI)ly I'rotuhijipus 
jxirvulus Marsli, and otlier fragments. 

S. F. Fleharty, Antelopoville, Nebraska. 10557. '85. (iv) 

Larva of Erislalis tenax ; for examination. 

Dr. O. R. Early, Columbus, Kentucky. 10558. '85. (x) 

Si'KAK Point (New Zealand) and Scotch plowman's spoon. 

Mrs. Majjel Horn, Kedding, Shasta County, California. 10559. '85. (ii, a) 

FiiJRES,* from Brazil. 
10500. '85. (I) 

Vkgetaule Oils and seeds.* 

L. C. BoYE, United States Consular Agent, Bonaire, West Indies. lt)5(il. '85. 
(I) 
Minerals.* 

L. C. BoYE, Bonaire, West Indies. 10501. '85. (xvi) 

SuGAiis*, from Sandwich Islands. 

10502. '85. (I) 

CoiToN AND Worsted Fadrics,* from Scotland. 

10503. '85. (I) 

Twist Tobacco.* 

105G1. '85. (I) 

Lacquered Box and Book Cover,* from Teheran, Persia. 

10505. '85. (II, A) 
Wools,* from Australia. 

10506. '85. (I) 

Hops and Gums,* from Australia. 

10507. '85. (I) 
Leatjier,* from Australia. 

10508. '85. (I) 
f)i,iVE Oil and orange water.* 

Society Anonyme, Nice, France. 10501). '85. (i) 
Emi'.hoideries, * from Switzerland. 

E. P. BeauCIIAME', United States Consul, Saint Gallo. 10570. '85. (l) 
Antimony, t 

Jap^vnese Commission. 10571. '85. (xviii) 
Pictures,* illustrating manners and customs of various nations. 

10572. '85. (11, A) 
Fancy Baskets* and cigar cases. 

Tii. EiciLMANN, Prussia. 10573. '85. (ii, a) 
Photographs* of scenes in Newfoundland, Italy, and Honolulu. 

10574. '85. (II, A) 

*Received from Now Orleans Exposition through Department of State, 
t Received from New Orleans Exposition. 



724 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Hon,* axe, aud scytlie, hand inado, from Tliuringou, Goruiany. 

G. T. MosiiER, United States Consul, Sonueberfjj, Germany. 16575. '85. (ii, a) 
Swainson's Waubleu, Heliiiala swainsoni (exciiange). 

AuTiiuiiT. Wayne, Charleston, South Carolina. 16576. '85. (v, a) 

Nest and Eggs of Swainson's Warbler, HeUnaia swaimoni. 

Arthur T. Wayne, Charleston, South Carolina. 16576. '85. (v, b) 
Bronze Guackle, QaiscaJus wnens and Red Crossbill, Loxia amcricana. 

George Marshall, Laurel, Maryland. 16577, '85. (v, a) 

Great Horned Owl, Bubo virginianus. 

Robert RiDGWAY, U. S. National Museum. 1G578. '65. (v, a) 

Mineral containing manganese, for examination. 

Miss L. A. B. CoRNACK, Geuito, Powhatan County, Virginia. 16571). '85. 

(XVIII) 

AsniALTUM, for examination. 

James M. Grigsby, Montague, Texas. 16580. '85. (xvm) 
"Puller," used for chopping pine trees ; from North Carolina. 

J. C.Russell, Richmond, Virginia. 16581. '85. (i). 

Soap Powde>r. 

Charles De Schmidt, Saint Paul, Minnesota. 1658::^. '85. (i) 

Fish, Selene gallus, from North Carolina. 

M. Wilson, Centre Market, Washington, District of Cohimbia. 1658)5. '85. 
(VII) 
Lepidolite, j)ink tourmaline, green tonrmalinc, spodumoue, and clcavelaudite (37 
specimens) (exchange). 

E. M. Bailey, Andover, Maine. 16584. '85. (xvi) 
Silk Worms and cocoons, Samia cijnihia. 

C. M. Fouche, Knoxvillo, Tennessee. 1(1585. '85. (x) 
Land Tortoise,* Cislado Carolina, from Symmes, Ohio. 

John S. Pollock, Smithsonian Institution. 16586. '85. (vi) 

Rubber Balls." 

MOnden and HiLDESilKiM, Miiudeu, Germany. 16587. '85. (ii, A) 

Tapa Cloth,* from Polynesia. 

16588. '85. (II, A) 
Baskets,* from Polynesia. 

16588. '85. (II, A) 
Rock Drill, similar to those used in driving the Washington Aqueduct tunnel. 

Capt. Thomas W. Symons, U. S. Army, Washington. 1658i). '85, (xviii) 
Wooden Sandals,* from Tripoli (1 pair). 

16590. '85. (II, A) 
Baskets,* from Tripoli. 

16590. '85. (II, A) 

Wool and Leather Sandals,* from Germany (3 pairs). 

16591. '85. (II, A) 

Boots and Shoes* worn by lumbermen in Canada (4 pairs). 

16592. '85. (II, A) 
Cotton Fabrics,* from Canada. 

1659-2. '85. (I) 
Negatives of microscopic sections of iron and steel (copied and returned). 
F. L. Garrison, Radnor, Pennsylvania, 1()593. '85. (xviii) 

'Received from Nevyr Orleans Exposition through Department of State, 



LIST OP ACCESSIONS. 725 

IxsECTS, showing variations of species q( Agrotis (li) specimens.) 

W. W. IIiLL, Albany, New York. 1G.591. '8.'). (x) 
Okks. 

F. P. Boyd, Fisher, Pennsylvania. 10595. '8.5. (xviii) 
PoTTKRY, from Panama (?). 

Df. .J. F. Bkaxsfoiu), U. S. N. 10590. '85. (ii, u) 
Hiu;> sKix.s. rams tiirneri, Ac.antlns exilipes, Plectrophancn nivnJls, P. Ityperhorens 
(recently discovered), ZoiiotricJiia coromila, PasscrcUa touviffrndn, Perisoreiis fiinii- 
frorifs, NyctaJe richardsoni, Sarn'ia caparnch, Lnijopiis riip('slri><, L. alhiis, Triiu/a 
maciilala, T. ptilocneniis, T. coiiasl, Aims acniii,, Somalcriu sptcalnhUi.s Oteaiio- 
droma /areata, Simorhi/iiclnis crhl(il(^lliis, and Uria ctdifoniicd. (71 specimens, I!) 
species), from Alaska. 
J. W. Joiixsox, Onnalaska, Alaska, 10597. '85. (v, a) 
Elk Skix and antlers in the velvet. 

E. W. Nelsox, Springervillo, Arizona. 10598. '85. (i) 
AxTiQurt'iES,* from lieadwatcirs of the Sun I'Vancisco, New Mexico. 

E. W. NI'XSOX, Springerville, Ari/,(nia. I(i598. ',S5. (n,A) 
PoTTEUY, from headwaters of the San Francisco, New Mexico. 

E. W. Nelsox, Sprnigerville, Arizona. l(r>98. '85. (ri, a) 
Grass-cloth BlaxketI (African), from Morocco. 

1(;599. '85. (II, a) • 
Ctiina-ware. t 

Moore it Co., Langton, Staffonlsliire, England. 10000. '85. (l) 
Ma.tolica-wa re. t 

Hugo Loxitz, Nenhaldensleben, Prnssian Saxony. 10001. '85. (i) 
Vases, t 

Clemext Massier, Colfe Jnan, Aloes Maritimes, France. 10002. '85. (x) 

CmXA-WARE.t 

Wallis, C.imsox & Co., England, lOOO:?. '85. (i) 

China- WARE, t 

Erd.man Schlegklmicii, Snhl, Prnssian Saxony. 1G004. '85. (i) 

ClIIXA AXD EaRTIIEX WARE.t 

Wedgwood & Co., Tunstall, Staffordsliire, England. 10005. '85. (i) 
Tekra-cotta Vases, glazed bricks, etc.t 

Balfour AXi) Co., Longton, Staffordshire, England. 10000. '85. (x) 
PoRCELAix-WARE, diniier-plates, cnps, sancers, etc. (07 pieces).! 

T. C. Browx, Westiiead, Mooue ifc Co., Stoke-n|)on-Trent, England. 1GG07. 
'85. (I) 
Stoxeware, basins, etc., from Rnssian Poland. 

Kasimir CiiivULSKi Cmielon, Russian Polaml. 10008. '85. (i) 
Marine Shells (4 species), from Boca Ciega Bay, Florida,. 

IJ. S. Geological Survey, Wasliington, 1). C. lOliO'J. '85. (i, x) 
RedCottox,! and cloth made of same, from Malta. 

IGGIO. '85. (I) 

Australian Woods,! in book form. 

IGOll. '85. (XV) 
Plaxks,! from Australia. , 

10011. '85. (I) 
Brazilian Woods.! 

1G612. '85. (XV) 

*For further information seen^port on I)cp;n'tmeiit of Andneology, page 108. 
t Received from New Orleans Exposition through D.^partmiuit of State. 



726 REPORT ON NATIONAL, MUSEUM, 1886. 

Portland Cement,* materials exhibiting its composition. 

TOEPFFER, GuAWiTZ & Co., Stettin, Germany. loGlH. '35. (xviii) 
Canned Meats, vegetables, etc.* 

L. Gradbu & IIartwig, Gotba, Albertsbod. 1(3614. '8.'). (i) 
Irish Butter.* 

T. J. Clanchys, Munster Dairies Depot, Cork, Ireland. 16G15. '85. (i) 
Lkaf-Tobacco,* from Java and Snmatra. 

W. ScnoFFKR & Co., Rotterdam. 16616. '85. (i) 
Petroleum,* from Russia. 

16617. '85. (XVIII) 
Cotton Fabrics,* from Russia. 

16617. '85. (II) 
Boots and Shoes,* from Russia. 

16617. '85. (II, A) 

Porcupine, Cercolahets prehcnfiiUfi in the flesli. 

Zoological Society OF Philadelphia, Philadelpbia, Pennsylvania (tlirougb 
Arthur Edwin Brown, Esq.). 

16618. '85. (IV) 

Bird, EuJahes intermedia, from Siam. 

Miss Eleanor Reynolds, Chestnut Hill, PLiladelxihia, Pennsylvania. 16619. 
'85. (v,A) 

Brick from the wall of China. 

Miss Reynolds Krug, Washington, District of Columbia. 16620. '85. (i) 
Pale Bat, Anthrozous paUidus and young mouse, Hesjjeromys sp. 

E. Wilkinson, MansQeld, Ohio. 16621. '85. (iv) 
Fishes, from Mexico. 

E. Wilkinson, Mansfield, Ohio. 16621. '85. (vii) 
Reptiles (471 species), from Mexico. 

E. Wilkinson, Mansfield, Ohio. 16621. '85. (vi) 
Ore containing particles of metallic copper, for examination. 

Rev. W. II. De Rosear, Primrose, Lee County, Iowa. 16622. '85. (xviii) 

Box Tortoise, Cistudo Carolina, from Symmes, Ohio. 

John S. Pollock, Smithsonian Institution. 16623. '85. (vi) 

Vegetable Charcoal, for examination. 

F. H. Williams, Bristol, Connecticut. 16624. '85. (iii) 

" Indian Pipe," or "corpse plant," Monotropa uniflora L., for examination. 
J. A. Taylor, Stanberry, Missouri. 16625. '85. (xv) 

Spider, Epeira riparia, for examination. 

M. E. Sawyer, Dickson, Tennessee. 16626. '85. (x) 

Harlan's Hawk, Buteo harlani. A very valuable accession. 

Burdette Hassett, Howard Centre, Iowa. 16627. '85 (v, a) 

Salmon, Sahno salar, juv (9 species). 

A. G. Cheney, Glens Falls, New York. 16623. '85. (vii) 

Silicate of Alumina, probably kaolin, for examination. 

H. White, San Bernardino County, California. 16629. '85. (xvi) 

Marine Shells, from Florida (108 species). 

Charles T. Simpson, Braiden Town, Florida. 16630, '85. (ix) 

* Received from New Orleans Expositiou through Department of State. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 727 

PnoTor.iiAi'iis (">:{) of scenes in Jamaica (excliango). 

S. C. Brown, U. S. National Mnsenni. 166:11. 'S'). (ii, a) 
SxAKK, Diadophis punctatiiH, from Arliuj;ton, Virginia. 

William Palmer, U. S. National Museum. 1G(>32. 'S.'). (vi) 
Dogs (9 skeletons). 

Samuel Einstein, pound master, Washington, District of Columbia. It)!;:!:!. 
'd5. (XII) 

Oil Lami',* made of brass, from Tetuan, North Africa. 1()();{4. '85. (ii, a) 

Betrl-ciiewers' Outfit,' leaf, lime, betel nut, tobacco, and cutter, from South Asia,. 
l(i(;r). '85. (II, A) 

GuLMniM:," a musical instrument, from Tangier, Morocco. 1(1630. '85. (ii, a) 

.Veil,* lillet, slippers (1 pair), and child's shoes ('2 pairs). 1()G;'>7. '85. (ii, a) 

Screen,* manda,rin'.s silk robes (2), and pair of ladies' .shoes. 
166:58. 'S5. (II, A) 

Cup,* can, and tube, lacquered, from Corea. 

166:39. '85. (II, A) 
Betel-nut Chewer's Outfit.* 

A. G. Studer, U. S. Consul, Singapore, India. 16()10. '85. (ii, a 
Harness,* reins, halters, cords, etc. 

A. and J. Biezknaar, Gonda, Holland. KiG-ll. '85. (ii, a) 
WooDE.v Shoes,* carved (:! pairs). 

16642. '8.5. (II, A) 
PhotoGRAVURKS of Extinct Reptiles,' IJjiJd'ottalracIiHn crojiii, lUvrnhHitrlUi Faiicsii, 
(rOitiophaUs .simiis, hjuanodon mnntelli, I. I)<'riii-,snrlfnsis, and ChilrdccjiIuihiK duntoiiii, 
from Belgium. 

1(;642. '85. (VIII.) 
Cloth Slippers* (10 pairs), from Germany. 

1664:5. '85. (II, A) 
Statuettes* of Cows (5), from Wirtemberg. 

George L. Catlin, U. S. consul, Stuttgart. 16644. '85. (ii, a) 
Shepherd Check Sh.\wl, from Scotland. 

16646. '85. (II, a) 
Chopping Board.s* (3) and piggin. 

KUUT. '85. (II, a) 
Moorish Gillaba,* from Morocco, Africa. 

1(5648. '85. (II, A) 
Velvet Purse* and cigar case, from Fez. 

16649. '85. (II, a) 
Palmetto Basket* and wallets, from Africa. 

1(;6.50. '85. (II, a) 

S\VORi>," scabb.ard, brush, water bottle, etc., illustrating leather-work. 
16651. '85. (II, a) 

Brass Trays,* from Africa. 

Abraham Coros, U. S. Consular Agent, Mogador, Africa. 166.52. '85. (ii, a) 

Seed Necklace * and wallet, from New Zealand. 16653. '85. (ii, a) 
Whip* or brush, from Samoa. 16;;5l. '85, (ii, a) 
Vegfitable Silk.* 

Henry Peale, IJ. S. Consul, Santiago, Cape Verde Islands. 16654. '85. (i) 

* Received from New Orleaas Espositipu tUrouy;h Department of State. 



728 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

PrioTOGRAPns of plaster-casts of a funeral column at Uxraal, Yucatan. 
Dr. Le Plongkon, Uxuial, Yucatan. 16055. "85. (ii, a) 

Basketry.* 

Mexican Commissioner, Oaxaca, Mexico. 16656. '85. (ii, a) 

Straw Placque,* from Estatua de Colon. 

Mexican Commissioner, Oaxaca, Mexico. 16657. '85. (ii, a) 

JiCARAS * and stands, from Central America. 16658. '85. (ii, a) 
Bark Canoe," from Chippewa Indians, Canada. 16659. '85. (ii, a) 

Seed Cells of Cacumis asinns* used as sponges and sti'ainers. Also a bonnet made 
of the same material, from British Guiana. 
William Fresson. 16660. '85. (ii, a) 

Seed Mat and Basket.* 

C. E. Jackson, U. S. Consul, Antigua, West Indies. 16661. '85. (ii, a) 

Turquoise (108 species), in gangue, New Mexico. 

U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia. 1066-3. '85. 

(XVI) 

Ferruginous Sandstone, for examination. 

O. A. Blackman, Leavenworth, Crawford County, Indiana. 16663. '85. (xvii) 
Bird-skins ;t 95 specimens mounted (mostly in excellent style), 59 species; collected 
in the States of Puebla and Vera Cruz, Mexico ; forming part of the Mexican Govern- 
ment exhibit at New Orleans. A very valuable acquisition to the collection, espec- 
ially on account of the excellence of the mounting. Several species are thus for the 
first time added to the exhibition series, while many old and poorl.y-mounted si)eci- 
meus have been replaced by those of the present collection. 

The Mexican Geographical and Exploring Commission, through Prof. F. Ferrari 
Perez. 16664. '85. (v, a) 

Insect, probably Lucilia or a Sarcophagid. 

Lavinia C. Dundore, Washington, District of Ccdumlua. 16665. '85. (xi) 

Macaroni and vermicelli-glutiuie. 

Louis Treres & Co., Turenne, France. 16666. '85. (i) 

RIVOLI Humming Bird, Eugenes fulgens (7 specimens). 

F. Ferrari Perez, Puebla, Mexico. 16667. '85. (v, a) 

Birds (91 specimens, 69 species), from Bardstown, Kentucky. 

C. W. Beckham, Smithsonian Institution. 16668. '85. (v, a) 

Photographs of limestone quarries in Warren County. 

Prof. J. R. Proctor, Lexington, Kentucky. (Through George P. Miniill.) 

16669. '85. (XVII) ' 

Reeves Pheasant, Phasianus reevesi, <? in the flesli. Prior to this accession )li»' 
Museum collection had but one of these birds, a female. 
Zoological Gardens of Philadelphia. (Through Arthur E. Brown, Esq.) 

16670. '85. (V, A) 

Chlorite, asbestus, and kyanite in quartz. 

George W. Lendereg, Roxbury, Connecticut. 16671. '85. (xvi) 

ScANDiA Phosphor-tin. 

Lewander & Co., Boston, Massachusetts. 16672. '85. (xviii) 

* Received from New Orleans Exposition through Department of State, 
t For complete list of the natural history collections made- by the Commission, see 
''Proceedings United States National Museum," vol. 9, 1886, pp. 125-199. 



List OF ACCESSIONS. 729 

Spfau-iieads (U), ami a leaf-sbapod implcmoufc, from Randolph County, Iiuliana. 

Alex. C. Black. Snrgoon-General's Office, Washington, District of Columbia. 
1G673. '85. (Ill) 
Insfxts, Mallodon (1 specimen), rroculiiH (Ci specimens), rassaJu>i (I specimen), Arco- 
cinus longimanus (5 specimens), from Guatemala. 

Miles Rock, 1430 College Hill Terrace, Washington, District of Colnmr>ia. 
1G674. '65. (X) 

ITOGXOSE SXAKE, Heterodon platjjrhinus. 

Charles A. Bruff, Washington, District of Colnmhia. IGCw;".. '85. (vi) 

Decomposed Material. 

Richard Slaney, Payson, Arizona. 1(5G7G. '85. (xviii) 

Earthenware Vases and ornamental pitchers.* 

Thomas Forester & Sons, Longton, Staffordshire, England. IGHTT. '85. (i) 

Horse-teeth and skeleton snake, from Todd's Limekiln Qn.arry, near Cart-ersville, 
Barton County, Georgia. (Returned.) 
JohnP. ROGAN. (Through U. S. Geological Survey.) 1GG78. '85. (xii) 

In.sect, PoJyplnjUa 10-lineata, Say. 

N. H. Brown, Lander, Wyoming. 1G679. '85. (x) 

Birds' Eggs, 5cops asio irichopsis, from Fort Lowell, Arizona. 

Capt. Charles E. Bendire, Fort Custer, Arizona. 1GG80. '85. (v, b) 

Arctic Towiiee, Pipilo arclicus (skin). 

Capt. Charles E. Bendire, Fort Custer, Arizona. 1GG81. '85. (v, a) 

Birds! : Pyrodcrus orenoceHSi.s, from Venezuela, and Pharomacn<.i moccino, from Guate- 
mala. 
Commissioner of Venezuela. 16G82. '85. (v, a) 

Hydroids, corallines and barnacles, from Cape Flattery, W. I. 

James G. Swan, Port Townsend, Washington Territory. IGG83. '85. (xi) 

Scallops and other shells, Pecten caurinus, and Olivdla hlpVwala Say, from Cape 
Flattery. 
James G. Swan, Port Townsend, Washington Territory. 1GG83. '85. (ix) 

SiLiciFiED CORAL, probably Micheliva sp. 

D. S. Deering, Indeiiendence, Iowa. 16G84. '8». (xiii, a) 
Grasses, Erianfhus alopecuroides — E. saccharoides, Michx, E. hreviliarhis, Michx. .and 

Scirjms eriophorum, Michx. 

R. S. Owen, Tuscaloosa, Alabama. 1GG85. '85. (xv) 

Dried Hydroid. 

Henry D. Woolfe, Cape Lisburno, Alaska. 1GC8G. '85. (xi) 
Skull of an eel-pout, probably an undescribed species of Zoarcca. 

Samuel WiLMOT, Newcastle, Ontario, Canada. 16687. '85. (vii) 
Plants.1; A large and valuable collection, including about 1,500 species, from the 

West and Southwest. 

V. Havard, assistant-surgeon, U. S. Army, Fort Wads worth, New York. 1GG88. 
'85. (XV) 
Marine Invertebrates, from the eastern coast of North America. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 1GG8'J. '85. (xi) 

* Received from New Orleans Exposition. 

t Received from New Orleans Exposition through Department of State. 
tTliis eo]h3ction is treated of by the donor in a paper published in " Proceedings 
U. S. National Museum," viii, Sept. 23, 1885, pp. 449-533. 



730 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1880. 

MoLLUSKS, from the eastern coast of North America. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 16689. 
Batuachian, Bana cateshiana. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 10G8D. '85. (xi) 
Birds, Ampelis cedrorum, Sterna paradisea S. hirundo (?), Oceanodroma Jeucorhoa, and 
Oceanites oceanicus. 
U. S. Fish Commission. 16689. '85. (v, a) 
Mammals, Putorius vison Condylura cristata, Erethrizon dorsalus, and Arctomys monax, 
from Wood's Holl. 
U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 16689. '85. (iv) 
Insects, Blatta surinamensis, CamponoUis jyennsylvanicus, Pelecinus poJucerator, etc. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 16689. '85. (^x) 
Coke. 

J. II. Bkumwell, Roanoke, Virginia. 16690. '85. (xviii) 
Antiquities. A collection of 75 specimens, including a flake, 11 arrow-he.ids, 2 ham- 
mer-stones, 3 grooved axes, 2 mauls, 7 rubbing-stones, metate, pestle, mortar, 2 
arrow-shaft straighteuers, fragment of a stone implement of unusnal sliape, pol- 
ishing stone, small paint muller (?), cylindrical stono, stone tube (pipe ?), 2 shell 
ornaments, 7 quartz crystals, piece of uuworked turquois, clay vessel, 4 frag- 
ments of pottery, and 22 fragments of stone implements and natural formations, 
from Fort Thomas, Ariz. Purchased. 
J. H. Carlton, Fort Thomas, Arizona. 16691. '85. (in) 
Helmet, made of silver, ornamented with bosses of steel, with a leather cape attached, 
lined with embroidered silk. 

D. W.Zantzinger, Washington, District of Columbia. 16692. '85. (ii,a) 
Japanese Bread, presented to D. W. Zantzinger in 18.58 by the Japanese Legation. 

D.W. Zantzinger, Washington, District of Columbia. 16692. '85. (i) 
Minei;al, for examination. 

A. L. Yeckley, Doaus, Wilbarger County, Texas. 1669;l. '85. (xvi) 
Madras Catamaran, for one man, one paddle (model). Obtained byRev. C. H. S. 
Dall. 

William H. Dall, U. S. Geological Survey. 16694. '85. (ii,a) 
Rocks. (Exchange.) 

Prof. W. O. Crosby, Boston, Massachusatts. 16695. '85. (xvii) 
Rocks, from Massachusetts. 

George P. Merrill, U. S. National Museum. 10696. '85. (xvii) 
Stalagmitic Marble, from the Luray Cave, Virginia. 

Henry Horan, U. S. National Museum. 10097. '85. (xvii) 
Earth, for analysis. 

W. F. Chaplin, Orangcburgh, South Carolina. 10698. '85. 
Albite. 

Charles Miller, Jr., Sanborn, New York. 16699. '85. (xxi) 
Eskimo Kyak. Purchased while donor was with the Greely Relief Expedition. 

C. S. McLain, U. S. Navy. 16700, '85. (ii, a) 
Lump-fish, CycJopterus lumpus. 

F. C. Jessup, keeper Petniik L. S. Station, West Hampton, New York. 10701. 
'85. (VII) 
Fulgurite and sand. 

A. N, Abbott, Union Grove, Illinois. 10702. '85. (xvii) 
Sandkrling, Calidris arenaria, shot at Gr.avely Run, Virginia. 

John Dowell, Washington, District of Columbia. 1070;J. '85. (v, a) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 731 

Electric Eel, Gymnotus eleclricus. 

E. G. Blacktoiid, 80 Fiiltou Market, New York. 1(3704. '85. (vii) 
Pygmy Sperm Whale, Kogia hreviceps, <?, juv. 

C. T. GiUMM, Lovcladics Island, New Jersey. 1(;705. 'S7>. (iv) 

Pygmy Spekm Whale, Eo/jia hrcvicvps, 9 atl. 

Joel EiDGWAY, Bariiegat City, New Jersey. 1G70G. '8.5. (iv; 
Owl, Glancidium gnoma, from San Francisco, California. • 

H. W. Turner, U. S. Geological Survey. 16707. H5. (v, a) 
" Skate," caught at Fortress Monroe. 

James Goddex, Wasliiugton, District of Columbia. 1G708. '8.'). (vii) 
KiXG-Fisii, Meniicirnis nehiilosns. 

I. P. Miller, Portsmoutb, New Ilampsliire. 1G709. '85. (vii) 
Ores, from Montana and Oregon. (Exchange.) 

F. J. Parker, Washington, Di.strict of Columbia. 1G710. '6'k (xvin) 
Mortar, from an old tower at Newport. 

Newport Natural History Society, Newport, Ilhode Island. 1G711. '85. 
(I) 
Porpoise, rrodclphinus doris, from southern Atlantic coast. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. lG7r2. '85. (iv) 
MOLLUSRS, from southern Atlantic coast. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 1(;71'2. '85. (ix) 
Fishes, from southern Atlantic coast. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 1G712. '85. (vii) 
Marine Invertebrates, from Atlantic coast of Southern Slates. 

U. S. Fisii Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 1G71-2. '85. 
Plum Leaves covered on one side with insects, probably Jpliis priini. 

Mrs. M. E. Cromley, Dolores, Color.ado. 1G713. '85. (x) 

Monkeys, brought from Paris. 

Mrs. Alexander Gp.aham Bell, Washington, District of Columbia. 1G714. 
'85. (IV) 
SwoRDFiSH Iron. 

WiLLARD Nye, New Bedford, Massachusetts. 1G715. '85. (i) 
Oysters, from Wood's Iloll, Massachusetts. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 1G71G. '85, (j. 

R. R.) 

Flemish Tapestry, described in Part i, p. G5. 

Lieut. Gen. P. II. Sheridan, U. S. Army. 1G717. '85. (i) 
Gairdner's Trout, Salmo \ridcus gairdncri (diseased). 

L. W. Green, Baird, Shasta County, California. 1G718. '8.5. (xxi) 
Whiteeisii, Corefjonns williamsoni, Gd., from Wliito liiver, near Meeker, Garfield 
County, Colorado. 

James L. Foley, Covington, Kentucky. 1G71U. '85. (vii) 

* Working Models of steamships, composite steam-yacht, cotton steam-ship, jileas- 

ure boats, etc. (10). 
W. Power, Kingston, Canada. 1C720. '85. (ii,a) 
Model showing improvement in the construction of iron vessels. Patented .and made 
by donor. 
D. W. Zantzinger, Wiishingtou, District of Columbia. 1G721. '85. (ii, a) 

• Cornet, violin case, and strings. 

M. P. TOMSCiitK & SoHN, l'>runii, Aiislria. IG722. '85. (i) 

* Keceived from New Orleans Exposition. 



732 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Cl'.AYFISriES. 

H. G. Hodge, York, Illinois. 1G723. '85. (xi) 
Seeds. 

R. Valentine, Janesvillc, Wisconsin. 16724. '85. (xv) 
Kangaroo, Macropus rufus. 

Barnum, Bailey & Hutchinson, Bridgeport, Connecticut. 1G725. '85. (xiv) 
Old Shoe, found in a settlement of foreigners at Petoskey, Micliigan. 

R. Edward Earll, U. S. National Museum. 16726. '85. (ii, a) 
BiiJDS, Sialia sialis, Sitta pnsUla, Cisfothoriis palasiris, Dcuclroica phius (?), Geoiliypis 
irichas, Icterus galhiila, Myiarchus erlnitus, from Piney Point, Maryland. 

L. M. Turner, Smithsonian Institutiftn. 16727. '85. (v, a) 
Brook Trout,* Salvelinun fontinalis, $ , from Lake Sunapee, New nainpsbiro. 

E. B. Hodge, Plymouth, New Hampshire. 16728. '85. (vii) 
Stone Implements,! from Carroll and Howard Counties, Indiana. 

B. W. EvERMANN, Bloomington, Indiana. 16729. '85. (iii) 
Bird Skins. 105 specimens from Faroe Isles, Orkney, Archangel, France, England, 
and Turkey. 

P^DWARD Hargitt, Bedford Park, Chiswick, England. 16730. '85. (v, a) 
Plant, probably Astragalus higelowi, Gray, from Fort Elliott, Texas. 

Dr. W. T. Parker, Newport, Rhode Island. 16731. '65. (xv) 
Fatty Tumor taken from the abdomen of a trout, for examination. 

R. Connable & Son, Petoskey, Michigan. 16732. '85. (a.n. ni. 
Doll, dressed as an OttaAva chief's wife. 

Mrs. H. S. Baird, Green Bay, Wisconsin. 167.33. '85. (ii) 
FRUiT,i sixteen cans, from Singapore. 16734. '8.5. (i) 

LiMONiTE, dolomite and calcite, and melanterito and pyrite (3 specimens), from Blount 
County, Alabama. 

Frank Burns, U. S. Geological Survey. 16735. '85. (xvii) 
Argillite Implements (10), found in a gravel-bed at Trenton, New Jersey, by Dr. 
C. C. Abbott. 

Dr. Charles Rau, U.S. National Museum. 16736. '85. (in) 
Penobscot Salmon, Salmo salar, raised from the egg at Wytheville, Virginia. 

U. S. Fish Commission. 16737. '85. (vii) 
Insects. The collection of Dr. C. V. Riley, Honorary Curator of Insects, U. S. National 
Museum. Described on page 181 of this report. 

Dr. C. V. Riley, Department of Agriculture. 16738. '85. (x) 
Leaf-shaped Implement of brown jasper, and an arrowhead, from the Chenato 
Mountains, Presidio County, Texas. 

Thomas W.Stewart, Presidio, Presidio County, Texas. 16739. '8.5. (iii) 
Cray-fishes. Collection including three species new to the Museum collection, 
Astacus palUpes Lieb ; Camharus cubensla Erichs ; C. putnami Fox. 

Museum of Comparative Zoology', Cambridge, Massachusetts (through Prof. 
Walter Faxon). 16740. '85. (xi) 

Reptiles, Bolhrops xantliogrammus (2 specimens) and Spilotis poccUonatns (11 speci- 
mens). 

E, T. GoDDARD, Bahia de Caraquez, Ecuador. 16741. '85. (vi) 

* For further information concerning this accession see report on Department of 
Fishes, page 168. 

t For further information concerning this accession see report on Department of 
Antiquities, pages 104-105. 

\ Received from New Orleans Exposition through Department of State. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 733 

Leopakd, Felis Ico^xirdus, in the llesb. 

Baknum, Bailey &. Hutchinson, Brid^^epoit, Coiim^clicuL. l{uA2. 'S7>. (iv) 
Alligator Fisues, Podothecus acl2)euseri)ius. 

Lieut. H. E. Nichols, Sitka, Alaska. 16743. 'rif). (v^ii) 
Eggs of American Coot, Fulica americana (2). 

A. N. Fuller, Lawrence, Kansas. 10744. 'd5. (v, b) 
Duck, Oklcmia j^crspicillata (bead and foot) ; for examination. 

Junius P. Leach, Eusliville, Illinois. 10745. '85. (v, a) 
Burgess's " Challenge" Fish Food. 

William Burgess, Berry Lodge, Malvern Wells, Enghuid. 10710. '^5. (i) 
Sole, Solea vulgaris (2 specimens), from England. 

E. G. Blackford, New York, New York. 10747. 'S5, (vii) 
Afric^vn Figures. Two manikins, prepared in Paris under direction of director of 
tbe Trocadero Museum. (Pnrcbased, 720 fr.) 

Jules Hebert, 9, rue Henri Martin, Paris, France. Ui748. '85. (ii,a) 
Cambrian Fossils, from tbe St. Jobu group (.53 specimenK). 

G. F. Matthew, St. Jobn, New Brunswick. 1074'J. '8.5. (xui, a) 

Parasitic Copepods from a cramp-fisb, Torj^edo ocvldcntalitt, from Provincetown, 
Massacbusetts. 
J. Henry Blake, Cambridge, Massacbusetts. 10750. '85. (xi) 

MOLLUSKS, ParUda{Diplomori)ha)LaiiardU Brazier (2 specimens), from Sails) )oe Island, 
South Pacific. 
Dr. D. W. Hartman, West Cbester, Pennsylvania. 10751. '85. (ix) 
Snakes, Tropidonotm sipedon and Ilctcrodon pla.tijrhhms, from North Carolina. 

Dr. II. C. Yarrow, U. S. National Museum. 10752. '85. (vi) 
Birds (8 species), including a dodo pigeon, Didniiciilus alr'Kjirostrii (11 sitecios), from 
Samoa. 
Dr. T. Canisius, Chicago, Illinois. 10753. '85. (v, a) 
"Kava" outfit, including a bowl (Tanoa taina), in which the drink is made; a co- 
coanut-sboll cup (Oleipu tan Kava); fan used to clear the chewed root from the 
drink; and two pieces of the root of Flper metisticiim, from which the beverage is 
prepared. Also a rug (lasinga), from Samoa. 

King of the Samoan Islands (through Department of State). 1C754. '85 
(I) 
Phyllopod Crustaceans, Branchipus vei-nalis. 

William Kayser, Wapakoneta, Ohio. 10755. '85. (xi) 
Birds, for examination (13 specimens). 

II. K. COALE, Chicago, Illinois. 10750. '85. (v, a) 
FossiLiFEROUS CiiERT, for examination. 

O. A. Blackman, Leavenworth, Indiana. 10757. '85. (xvii) 
Flint-LOCK Guns (8 pieces), from an extensive Indian grave-yard near Bainbridge, 
Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. The objects were found during the removal of 
the top-soil of a limestone quarry. 
Dr. T. H. Bean, U. S. National JMuseum. 10758. '85, (in) 
Bows and Arrows (2 sets), from tbe Arapahoe and Cheyenne Indians, Darlinijtou, 
Idaho. (Purchased.) 

Capt. J. M. Lee, Ninth Infantry, U. A. Army, acting Indian agent. 10751). 
'85. (iiij 
Crabs, parasites, criistacoa, worms, and amphipods. 

U. S. Fish Commission (llirongb Vinal N. Edwards, Wood's HoP., Massa- 
chusetts). 10700. '85. (XI) 



734 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

yciuius. 

U. S. Fisii Commission (tbrongli V. N. Edwards, Wood's Holl, Massacliusetts). 
16760. '85. (IX) 
BxEDSKiNS, from Florida aud Peuusylvania. 

Geoiige W. Roberts, West Chester, Penusylvauia. 16761. '85. (v, a) 
Mammals, Sciurus hudsoniu8 and Lepus palusiris, Irom Drayton Island, Fla. 

George W. Roberts, West Chester, Pennsylvania. 16761. '85. (iv) 
Crude Nitrate, from Iquique. 

I. R. Bartlett, commander and hydrograj>her, U. S. Navy, llydrographic 
Office, Washington, District of Columbia. 16762. '85. (xviii) 
Fossil, Coliimnaria alveolata, from the Trenton group, Maury County, Tennessee. 

Frank Burns, U. S. Geological Survey. 1676:}. '85. (xiii, a) 
Minerals. An addition to the collection now on exhibition (deposited). 

Joseph Willcox, Media, Peunsylvanhi. 16764. '85. (xvi) 

CiiiRiQUi Pottery, valued at filOO (exchange). 

Dr. T. L. Flood, Meadville, Pennsylvania. 16765. '85. (ii b) 
Periodical. File of " Illustrirte Zeitung " for the years 1873 and 1874. 

Prof. Otis T. Mason. 16766. '85. (ii a) 
MoLLUSKS, from Moline, Illinois, and Nashville, Tennessee. 

R. Ellsworth Call, Moline, Illinois. 16767. '85. (ix) 
Bill Fish, Fistularia talaccaria. 

W. S. Green, keeper Long Branch Light-Ship Station, Monmouth County, 
New Jersey. 16768. ^85. (vii) 
Fish, Merlucius hilinearis. 

Captain Doajste, Light-Ship 41, Vineyard Sound. 16769. '85. (vii) 
Insect, Prinotus cristatus Linn. 

William Rear, Nashville, Tennessee. 16770. '85. (x) 
Ethnological Objects: War knife made from sword-bayonet blade; pipe, carved 
to represent '' Killer-flsh man" and " Havi," taken from graves of " Shnaus" in 
Southeast Alaska. 

Lieut. Dix BOLLES, U. S. Navy. 16771. '85. (ii, a) 
Snowy Owl, Nyctea nyctea. (Purchased.) 

James Deane, Alexandria, Virginia. 16772. '85. (v, a) 
Picture of the schooner James S. Lowell (which sank the Tallapoosa). 

T. K. Reed, Booth Bay^ Maine. 16773. '85. (i) 
Organic Deposit, probably bat gnano ; contains nitrates, potash, phosxthates, am- 
monia, etc.; for examination. 

J. H. HORNUNG, Oasis, Utah. 16774. '85. (xvi) 
"Long Horn," Cicanthocinus nodosus Fab. 

George H. Oelrichs, Washington, District of Columbia. 16775, '85. (x) 
Seeds of Liatris odoratissima. (Purchased. ) 

Wallace Bros., Statesville, North Carolina. 16776. '85. (xv) 
Black Macaque, Cynopithecus nigcr, juv. 

W. A. CoNKLiN, Central Park Menagerie. 16777. '85. (xii) 
Shad, Clupea sapidissima. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 16778. '85. (vii) 

Fossils. • 

William B. Hamilton, Collingwood, Ontario, Canada. 1677U. '85. (xiii, v) 

Insects, mostly Diptcra (26 vials). 

Dr. B.H.Waruen, West Chester, Pennsylvania. 16780. '85. (x) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 735 

Jack Kaxjbit. 

E. BuMGAUDNKK, Holtou, KaiiHas. 16781. '85. (iv) 
Fossil, Nucleocriuns verncuUi, Devonian, IVoin Charleston, Indiana. 

II. C.DuVALL, Washington, District ol" Columbia. 1G782. '87>. (xxii,a) 
FiEKCED Tablet, fonnil in a corn -field in Herca Township, Cn.yahog!'. County, Ohio 

H. C. DUVALL, Washington, District of Columbia. 1078::^. '85. (in) 
Cambuiax Fossils (131 specimens), from Sweden (exchange). 

Dr. G. LiNDSTUOM, Stockholm, Sweden (through C. D. Waleott). 1(J7.^:;. '85. 
(XIII, a) 
Aruentitk, from Kabbit Mountain Mine, near Fort Arthur, Ontario. 

Mrs. Edward A. Wild, Brookliue, Massachnsetts. 16781. '85. (xvi) 

Model oe Canoe. 

Joseph Passeno, Washington, District of Columbia. 1G785. '85. (i) 

Plow AND Yoke,* from Managua, Nicaragua. 16786. '85. (ii,a) 
Plow, ** similar to those used over two thousand years ago in Sicily, 

Albert Woodcock, U. S. consul, Catania, Sicily. 16787. '85. (ii, a) 
Book, copy of a work on the discovery of the circulation of blood, imblished iu Rot- 
terdam, in 1648, by Dr. William Harvey. (Deposited.) 
G. Brown Goode, U. S. National Museum. 16788. '85. (ii, a) 
StuNE Implement, with grooves, from Vineyard Haven, Dukes County, Massa- 
chusetts. 

Thomas Lee, U. S. Fish Commission. 16789. '85. (in) 

Kvanite, actinolite, moonstone, orthoclase, stilbito and aragonite (1) si>ecim«ns). 

Cai»t. JouN J. Williams, Thurlow, Pennsylvania. 1671)0. '85. (xvi) 
Neotropical Birds,* 3 species, from Venezuela (?) (8 specimens. ) 167*J1. (vii) 
Bird-skins, from Venezuela (9 species, 13 specimens). (Purchased.) 

H. K. COALE, Chicago, Illinois. 16792. '85. (v, a) 
Bird-skins, Junco caniceps, J. aniievttns, J. dorsalis and J. orajonus. (Kl specimens.) 

Dr. K. W. Suueeldt, U. S. Army, Fort Wingate, New Mexico. 16793. '85. 
(V, a) 
Vajsii.la Seed, Frilisa odoralissima. 

A. H. CURTISS, Talleyrand Place, Florida. 16794. '85. (xv) 

Cotton, t i-oll, yarn, etc. 

Government of Siam. 16795. '85. (i) 

Salamander, Amhlystoma punotatam. 

Mrs. F. L. Lee, Westport, Essex County, Nttw York. 16796. '85. (vi) 
Silver Ore, from Raymond &• Ely Mine, Pioehe, Nevada. 

U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Co'iumbi;i. 16797. '85. 

(XVIII) 
Iro.x Stirrups (an ancituit pair). 

HAliRY STUAi:r, agent for Guatemala Central Railroad, CJualcniala. 16798. 
'85. (Ill) 
Inveriehrate Fossil, Bellerophon sp. 

CiiAUNCEY Robinson, Burlington, Iowa. I(i799. '"^5. (xiii, a) 
MoLLUSK, Marfjaritana complanaia Barnes, from Neosho K'ivcr, Kansas. 

Dr. W. S. Newlon, 0sw(;go, Kansas. 16890. '85. (ix ) 
Carv'ED Stone Plate, carried from Japan to Holland, by Dutch merciiauis, in the 
seventeenth or eighteenth century. (De{)osited.) 

G. Brown Goode, U. S. National Museum. KWOl. '85. (xvi) 



'Received from Now Orleans Exposition thioiigb Department of State, 
t Received from New Orleans Expo.siliDii. 



73 G REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 

Fox Squikrkl, Sviiirus n'ujev cinervus, horn Maryland. 

J. D. Fakden, Washington, District of Columbia. 1G802. '8;"). (iv) 

Skal hunter's Gaff, used by fisliermau iu killing young " Harp " seals on tlie ice. 
A. D. Brown, St. John's, Newfoundland. 16803. '85. (i) 

UiRD-KKiNS, Stcrcorarius parasiticus, MjjdrochcUdou suriuamcims, from North Allan lie. 
U. 8. Fisu Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 10804. 't^ij. 
(v,a) 

Hurnkt's Nest, from Georgetown, District of Columbia. 

FuederickWitzel, West Washington, District of Columbia. 1G805. '85. (x) 

Insect, Trevicx columha, for examiuatiou. 

Dr. C. P. Baird, Winchester, Tennessee. 1680G. '85. (x) 

Leaf-shaped Implement, perforator, and arrow-heads (7), from southern Indiana. 

J. T. Abert, U.S. Engineer Corps. (Through C. D. Walcott.) 1G8U7. '85. 
(Ill) 
Quautzite, water-worn, from near Salt Lake, Utah; for examination. 

W. R. Bradford, Roxbury, Massachusetts. 16808. '85. (xvi) 

Models of Wagons,* six -mule Government wagon, two-horse farm wagon, larni- 
cart. 

Studebaker & Bro., South Bend, Indiana. 16809. '85. (ii, a) 

Bird-skins. A collection comprising a very complete series of Moladlla yarrelli, 
and Antlius pratensis, 10 species (87 specimens). 
R. Bowlder Siiarpe, British Museum, Kensington, Loudon, Euglaud. 16810. 

'85. (V, A) 

South American Birds, Myiarchus sp. nov. and Mernla sp. uov.; new to the collec- 
tion. 

H. K. COALE, Chicago, Illinois. 16811. '85. (V, a) 

Birds' Nests, from District of Columbia (5 specimens). 

Charles W. Richmond, Washington , District of Columbia. 168112. '85. 
(V, B) 

Western Water Thrush, Seiurus novehoracensis nolahilis, from Santa Cruz. 
Albert M. Ingersoll, Santa Cruz, California. 16813. '85. (v, a) 

Copper Ores. 

John Lawlor, Prescott, Arizona. 16814. '85. (xviii) 

Shell, Neritina vlrginta Laur. 

R. A. Lively, Williamsi)ort, Virginia. 16815. '85. (ix) 

Fishes, Chilomycterus geomeiriciis, Telrodoit iurtjidus, and AJitlcra sdnvpfii, from Colo- 
nial Beach, Potomac River. 

Maurice Cropley, Washington, District of Columbia. 16816. '85. (vii) 

Star-fish, Asterias Forhesii, from Colonial Beach. 

Maurice Cropley, Washington, District of Columbia. 16816. '85. (xi) 

ZUNY'iTE (2 specimens), from Colorado. 

W. F. Hillebrand, U. S. Geological Survey. 16817. '85. (xiv) 

Materia Medica, collection. 

Frederick Stearns & Co., Detroit, Michigan. 16818. '85. (i) 

Reptiles, Aviblijstoma tigrinum (4 specimens). 

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U. S. Army, Fort Wiugate, Now Mexico. 16811). '85. 

(VI) ^ 

* Received from New Orleans Exposition. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS 737 

Yellow Boa, Cliilol>i)tlirii>i inonialiifi, IVoin .Iiiiiiaica. 

ZooLocilCAL SoclKTY OF PniLADELPHiA, Pliiladcl [)liia, I'cniisylvauia. 1()8'20. 
'8.-.. (VI) 
Illustuations of boats {12 slieots) imhlislied in the eii^litceiith wMitury. 

Sanderson Smith, New Brigliton, StatsMi Island, N<'\v York. IGr^'il. 'So. (i) 

Illustkations of lURDS (15 sheets.) 

Sanderson Smith, New Brij^htou, Stateu Ishiiid, New York. I(JS-Jl. '8.'). ( v, a) 

Illustrations of marine invertebrates. 

Sanderson Smith, New Briyliton, Staten Island, New York. l()8-il. 'r.j. (xi) 

Illustrations of plants (4 sheets). 

Sanderson Smith, New Briyliton, Staten Island, New York. U'lSOl. '■<). (xv) 
French Chemical Wekhits, r)0 grannnes to 1 niilligrauiiue. (Deposited.) 

KoMYX IIiTCHCOCiv, U.S. National IMusenni. 1(582,>. '8.5. (i) 

Gold ore and Samarskite, IVoni Marijiosa County, Cal. 

Dr. J. \l. KoDGEi:s, Washinj-ton, Distriet of Colmahia,. l<;82:i '8.'). (xvili)- 
Shells, I'lnilloiiolus radir Laniarek. rhjilJiniotiix rcii'iiiK Swainson, Tinho mttniior<iii(s 
Liuno, Ilalloth tnlnftra Lamarck, Ciipia-n iii/ri--^ Linm', Mclciiyriiid iimnjiniti /era 
Linne. 

John S. Lamson & Bro., New York City. 1(38'24. '.S'>. (ix) 

Manganese Ore, from Nova Scotia. 

John S. Lamson & Bro., New York City. li;8'>4. '8.">. (xviii) 

Salamander, Ambli/stoma teiuhrosutn. 

J. Levison, Portland, Orej;on. l{i.s-2.'). '^5. (vi) 
Hickory Shad, Clupca chryaochlorit), from Osaj^e River, Camden Connty, Missouri. 

I. G. W. Steei>man, Saint Louis, Missouri. lt>S2(i. '85. (vii) 
Reindf.er, L'aui/ifcr tarnnditii (skin and hoof). Parry's Spermopliile, tSpcnnoitliihis tin- 
2)eira. Also ])art of an elephant's tooth. 

llENitY D. Woolfe, Cape Lisburne, Alaska. lt)8J7. '85. (iv) 

Shell, liuccinum (jlaciale L. 

Henry D. Woolfe, Cape Lisl)urne, Alaska, im-il. '85. (ix) 

Coal. 

Henry D. Woolfe, Cai)e Lisburne, Alaska. KiS'i*. '85. (xviii) 
Spoon made of horn of mountain sIkh-ji, mask, 2 J.ade implcMMcnts, jade oi nanicnt, 
piece of jad(?, lishin^-hooks, earvini^ and l)one lalu'ets. 

Henry D. Woolfe, Cape Lisburn^^, Alaska. I(i8'i7. '85. (U, a) 

Pykite and Siderite (1 specimen each). 

Henry 1). Woolfe, Cape Lisburne, Alaska. l(;8v;7. '85. (xvi) 
Star Fishes, CrlbrcUd (2 si)ecimens) and Aseidian Holloiid (one specimen). 

Henry D. Woolfe, Cape Lisburne, Alaska,. 1()827. '85. (xi) 

Sandstone, and Septarian nodule (2 specimens). 

Henry 1). Woolfe, Cape Lisburne, Alaska. lt)827. '85. (xvii) 

Insects, MdllophcHja, Dipterous larva, and Ardia larva. 

Henry I). Woolfk, Capo Lisbnrne, Alaska. 1(H27. '85. (x) 

BiRDSKiNS. Sevcuileen H[»ecie8 (I5'J specimens). 

Henry D. Woolfe, Cape Lisburne, Alaska. liW27. 'iS5. (v,a) 
Birds' Nests and Eogs. Lapland L()n^s]»ur. Ccnlrophaiivs lapponicii^ (;> nests ami 
i:? ejfgs), Knifed Grouse, Bonasa umhcUaa (nest and 1 et^jr), Pudoral Sandpiper, 
Aclodromas maciilala (nest, 4 egj^s). 

Henry D. Woolfe, Cape Lisburne, Alaska. lt)827. '85. (v, J'..) 

Llama, Llama fjlama, in the flesh. 

Baunum, Bailey and Hutchinson, Bridgeport, Connecticut. I(;828. '85. (iv) 
n. Mis. L70, pt. 2 47 



738 KEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Ziiicox crystal in Iionibleiide, from Renfrew Count}', Ontario. (Exchange.) 

Joseph VVillcox, Media, Pennsylvania. 168-20. 'afj. (xvi) 
PHOTOGRAriLS {'A) of tbo James Lick Observatory. 

H. E. M.-VTTHEWS, James Lick Observatory, San Francisco, California. 16830. 
'85. (I) 
IiioN and steel, manufactured. 

American Institute op Mining Engineers, New York City. 16831. '85. 
(xviii) 
Monkey, Macacus pelops, in the flesh. 

W. A. CoNKLiN, Central Park M<Miagerie, New York City. 16832. '85. (iv) 
Amejucan Hercules Beetle. Dynastes tityus. 

W. H. TisoN, Cutbbert, Georgia. 16833. '85. (x) 
Collie Bitch " Clipsetta," Canis famiUaris. Sire, prize dog " Eclipse ; " dam, " Nesta." 

James Watson, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 16834. '85. (iv) 
Trout, Salvelmus of the oquassa type, from New Haven, Conuecticut. 

E. B. Hodge, Plymouth, New Hampshire 16835. '85. (vii) 

Crawfish ('2 specimens). 

H. G. Hodge, York, Clark County, Hlinois. 16836. '85. (xi) 
Fruits and woods from conmion trees in Illinois. 

H. G. Hodge, York, Clark County, Illiuois. 16836. '85. (xv) 
CoRYNiTE and Siderite, from Olsa, Cariutbia; and Brocbantitol (specimen), from 
Clifton, Arizona. (Exchange.) 

William G. Eothe, Brooklyn, New York. 16837. '«5. (xvi) 

BiRD-SKiNS, for examination. 

George N. Lavv^rence, New York City. 16838. '85. (v, a) 
BiRD-SKiNS, Odtontophorus Jeucolcenms, Oonurus finschi, Euphonia dvijantisdma, Firanga 
iestacea, and Ceniurun hoff'numni, from Costa Rica. (Purchased). 

Frederick Stearns & Co., Detroit, Michigan. lC)83t). '85. (v,a) 

SiiRicw, BJarina exilipes Baird. 

F. A. Sampson, Sedalia, Missouri. 16840; '85. (iv) 
Shell, JJnxo phaseolut^, from Neosho River, Kansas, for examination. 

Dr. W. S. Newlon, Oswego, Kansas. 16841. '85. (ix) 
Photograph negatives (34) of stone (juarries, (juarrying machinery, etc., taken 
by the donor. Mounted. 
George P. Merrill, U. S. National Museum. 16842. '85. (xvii) 

Seeds of Nymi)hce. 

Prof. Robert Caspary, Konigsbtsrg, Germany. 16843, '85. (xv; 

Altered rocks, for examination. 

S. J.Nelson, Canton, Bradford Co., Pennsylvania. 16-i44. '85. (xv) 

Ore and bnttims (4) containing tin and lead. 

J. II. Mitchell, Philadel}»hi,a, Pennsylvania. 16845. '85. (xviii) 

Goose Barnacle, Lcpus, for examination. 

A. F. Maiilman, Little River, California. 16846. '85. (xi) 

Bird-skins, from Costa Rica (2 specimens), for examination. (Returned.) 
Fkederick Stearns & Co., Detroit, Michigan. 16847. '85. (v,a) 

Indian Head-dress and a leather provision bag. (Purcbased.) 

Thomas Donaldson', Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 16848. '85. (ii, A) 

Stone Implii^ment of coarse-grained syenite, and two spear beads, from Birmiu<i;bani, 
Erie County, Ohio. 

Mrs. D.L.NlELSON, Ycrmilion, Ohio. 16841). '85. (in) 

Buow^N Iron Ore, produced by alteration of jjyrites. 
I. G. True, Salidos, Colorado. 16850. '85. (xvi) 



LIST OF ACCE«8lON8. 739 

VakanI's, r. 1)1 iKjalcn-sl-i, iw tliu tlcsli. 

ZooLOGiCAi, SocitrrY oKriiiLADKLi'iiiA, IMiiladolpliia, reiiiisylvauia. (Throiij^li 
A. E. Erown.) 1G851. '85. (Vi) 
Birds. Blue Jay, Cyanocitta cristata (2 speoiiiiciis) ; Meadow Lark, Stiirnclln iuii<ina, 
and Dowuy Woodpecker, I'icun jjubesccn-i (.skeleton). 

J. D.Fardex, Washington, District of Columbia.. 16H5'J. 'rio. (xii) 
Soil from borings made by surveying expeditions under Captain Selfridgo in the 
vicinity of the Atrato ajid Napipi Kivers, with lield note-book and map showing 
points of boriTigs. 

J. R. Bartlktt, c()niman(h:r U. S. Navy, Hydrographie Ol'lice, U. S. Navy 
Department. KiS,'):!. '8.'). (xvii) 
Pai'Ei: made from the Indian corn plant. 

Prof. Sanderson Smith, New Brighton, Staten Island, New York. U)8r»4. '8.'). (i) 
Snow Guousk, Chen hypcrborcuis nivalis, from Currituck Sound, Norih Carolina. 

David King, 12'28 Connecticut avenue, Washington, District of Coliimbia. 
168;'):). '85. (V, a) 
Cauisonatk ok CoiTEi;. 

WiiJ.iAM F. Doty, Durango, Colorado. KHJIJ. '85. (xvi) 

Mauixe Shells, 21 species (exchange). 

Prof. A. G. Wktiiekby, Saint Andrews Bay, Florida. KiSOT. "85. (ix) 
Fishes, ritito2)hv)js mbiilaria (.2 species) and Etropus crvHuotiiH (or nthularin). 

Prof Alexander Agassiz, Mmseuni of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts. 1()858. '85. (vii) 
Miocene Fossils, from the shore of Willai)a Kiver, WashiTigton Territory. 

C. W. Wolfe, Aurora, Oregon. 1()85;). '.•^5. (xiii, b) 
Stone Mortars (2 species). 

W. P. Sutton, U. S. Consul-general, Matanjoros, Mexico. 1()8«)U. "85. (ii, a) 
Stone Pestle.* 

Mexican Commissioner. 168(51. '85. (ii, a) 
Map of Japan. 

Dr. D. B. McCartee, Washington, District of Columbia. 16862. '85. (il, a) 
Ethnological Oi5.jects. Basket hat, water jar.-^ (8), baskets (5), Berry wands (3), 
Berry trays (6), toy doll, cradlii back, leather bag, and repairs of moccasins col- 
lected by Dr. H. C. Yarrow among the tiosh Utes, Utah. 

Bureau of Ethnology, Washington, District of Clolumbia. 16863. '85. 

(II, A) 

Antiquities, from P'rance. 

ThOxMas Wilson, U. S. consul, Nice, France. 16864. '85. (iii) 
Materia Medica ' (18 specimens), from .Jamaica, including Aiin/>iii halaamifera, Mu- 
cunaprurietiH, CuKKia ohoraia, Calolropis gi(/aiiiea, lihizophora inaiiylc, Tpomocapuri/a, 
Aviceimia niiida, Couania dGminijtnsiH. Cissdm/nlos Prrcira, Ci/pcrus arlivulalua, Cap- 
paris cynopJiallophora, Swila.r china, Mikania (jnaco, Ilocconia fralcsccns, Croton caa- 
carilla, Andira inermi/i, LagucnJaria raremosa. 
Government of Jamaica. 16865. '85. (i) 
Flowers and foliage of i»apaw tree.* 

Government of Jamaica. 16865. '85. (i) 
Foods,* from Jamaica. 

Government of Jamaica. 16865. '85. (i) 
Annatto Seeds used as a dye," from Jamaica. 

Government of Jamaica. 16865. '85. (i) 

* Beccivpd from the New Orleans Exposition. 



740 REPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Mammals' Skins, (S Mpecimeus). 

R. MacFarlane, Fort Chippewyan, Hudson Bay Territory. 1G866. '85. (iv) 
Bird-Skin, Logopus albus, from Fort Resolutiou, Great Slave Lake. 

R. MacFarlane, Fort Chippewyau, Hudson Bay Territory. 10866. '85. (v, a) 

Nests and Eggs (7 specimens). 

R. MacF.\rlane, Fort Chippewyan, Hudson Bay Territory. 16866. '85. (V, B) 
DUFRENITE (136 specimens) strengite with cacoxenite in dufrcuito (2 specimens). 

Prof. M. B. Hardin, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, Virginia. 16867. 
'85, (XVI) 
Massive Garnet. 

J. P. Elrod, Jefi'erson, Georgia. 168li8. '85. (xvi) 
Dry Shells from Florida and Honduras; for examination. 

Charles T. Simpson, Braiden Town, Manatee County, Florida. 16869. '85 

(IX) 

Models, relief maps, etc. 

U. S. Geological Survey and Bureau of Ethnology, Washington, District 
of Columbia. 16870. '87. 
Bow, arrows, and quiver made of mouutaiu-liou skin. (Purchased.) 

Hathali Nez, ''The Tall Singer, " medicine-man. 16871. '85. (n, a) 
Ipswich Sparrow, Passcrculus princeps (30 specimens), and Shore Lark, Otocoris al- 
pestris (8 specimens). 

C. W. Chamberlain, Boston, Massachusetts. 16872. '85. (v, a) 
Rock Drill, "Eclipse" pattern, with pictures representing oi)eratioii on llie Wash- 
ington Aqueduct. 
IngersollRockDrillCompany, Park Place, New York. 16873. '85. (xviii) 
Porpoise, Delphiuus delphis, in the flesh. 

James R. Hobbs, Kitty Hawk, North Carolina. 16874. '85. (iv) 
Bird Skins. A collection of 113 specimens, 57 species, including a new species each 
of PoUoptila and Cyclorhis, from Cozamel Island and Temax, Yucatan. 
George F. Gaumer, Merida, Yucatan. 16875. '85. (V, a) 
Rush, Juncns effusus L., and weed, Poyhigonum am2}hibium L., from a carp-pond. 

John T. Irion, Paris, Tennessee. 16876. '85. (xv) 
Hair-worm, probably, Gordius aqnaticus. 

John King, Columbus, Georgia. 16877. '85. (xi) 
Marine Invertebrates, consisting chiefly of Crustacea. 
N. Grebnitski, Bering Island. 16878. '85. (xi) 
Shells, from Commander Islands, E. Siberia. 

N. Grebnitski, Bering Island. 16878. '85. (ix) 
Mammals, Zipldus grebnitsMi, Eumetophias stelleri, Orca ^p., Ovia nivicoha, Enhgdria 
eutris, and Odohwnus obesus (skeletons). 
N. Grebnitski, Bering Island. 16878. '85. (xii) 
Bird skins, Melodes calliope, riiuUogsewslcs borcalia, Erythrosterna albicilla, MoUuilla 
lugens, Ampelis garrulus, FringiUa inoiiiifringllla, CharadriUH squaiarula, PilUlvd 
paeifica, Liniosa merlanitroides, Occanodroma furcata, Uranta hiilchinni, Marica 
pevelope, Aythya fuUgida (16 specimens). 

N. Grebnitski, Bering Island. 16878. '85. (v, a) 
Birds' Eggs (25). 

N. Grebnitski, Bering Island. 16878. '85. (v, b) 
Fishes, Murcevoidex, TUcsia, Bathymastcr, Liparis, CothiN, OUgocoftas, (Insterostciis, 
Anoplarchug, Oncoi-hynchuK, Siphagoun.s, Hexagrnuiiuus, Hemilciiidolus, Cydopleriix, 
Clupea, Osmcrns, SalveUnus, Plenrogrammus, etc. 
N. Grebnitski, Bering Island. 16878. '85. (vii) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 741 

KsKi.Mo Imi'LICMKN'ts, iiicliuliui;' clothiii";, axo iistul in lod^iu^-lionsrs, kiiif.'-Uflt 
inailo from reiudccr toeth, bow aud 2 uri'ovvs, tisli-knilb a-iul hat uiadc by woman. 
J. W. Johnson, Fort Alexander, Alaska. 1()S70. '6'>. (ii, a) 
Fossil Siiklls. Macoma sahiila Spgl., Gardiuin (jrocnlandlvnm L., ylmauropsh purpurea 
Dall. Quaternary, in clay concretions. 

J. W. JoUNSON, Fort Alexander, Alaska. 10879. '8.'). (ix) 
Stonk Implkments. Knife, adzes (o). 'lud celts (2). 

J. W. Johnson, Fort Alexander, Alaska. 1()S79. '8.'>. (in) 

I'iKi) Skins, from Nnsliagak {'.\\ specimens). 

J. VV. .loHNSON, Fort Alexander, Alaska. 1()879. '8.5. (v, a) 

Pig-tailed Monkey, Macacus pelops 2 • 

W. A. CoNKLiN, Central Park menagerie, New York City. 16S80. ^S:i. (xii) 

Rekv'ks Pheasant, Phasianus reercsi (inonuted). 

Zoological Society OF Philadelphia. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (Throngh 
Arthur Edwin Brown, Esq.) 16881. '85. (v, a) 
Screen, representing a Chinese wedding. 

Mrs. J. L. Holmes. (Through O. T. Mason.) 1G882. '85. (ii, a) 
Fossil Shell. Axlnaea (?), from phosphate deposits, South Carolina. 

R. Rathuun, U. S. National Museum. 1088:5. '8,5. (ix) 
Sharks' Teeth (5), from phosphate deposits. South Carolina. 

R. Rathijun, U. S. National Museum. 1G88;>. "85. (vii) 

Coach Dog. Canis famUiarls (skeleton). 

Lewis Hipkins, Washington, District of Columbia. 1()884. '85. (xii) 

Bird Skins, collection of 139 species, 225 specimens from Turkey, France, India, 
South Africa, England, Asia Minor, Borneo, Pegu, British Bnrmah, Timor Lant, 
Papua, Australia, Malayan Peninsula, Brazil, and Peru. (Exchange.) 

R. BOWDLER Sharpe, British Museum, South Kensington, England. 1G885. 
'85. (V, A) 

Antiquities, from France. 

Thomas Wilson, U. S. consul, Nice, France. 16880. '87. (iii) 

Hatching-box fer hatching white-fish and other small liy (model). 

M, B. Hill, Clayton, New York. 10887. '85. (Sent to F. N. Clark, Nortli- 
ville, Michigan.) 

Metals, for examination. 

Dr. E. O. Sawyer, Point Pleas.aiit, West Virginia. I(i888. '85. (xviii) 

FisiiKS, rieuronccte.i ulcllaiuti, Coitus qnadricornis, Core/jonufi 'imrclcii, and CJupea mi- 
rahilus. 

Cai)t. M. A. Healy, U. S. R. M. steanK^r Corwltt, San Francisco, California. 
10889. '85. (VII) 
Turnstone, Strfj^silaB interpres, from Alaska. 

Capt. M. A. Healy, U. S. R. M. steamer Corwlii, San Francisco, California. 

16889. '85. (V, A) 

Maiune Ixvertebrates. from Alaska. 

Capt. M. A. Healy, U. S. R. M. steariier Corwin, San Francisco, California. 

10889. '85. (X, I) 

Fishes, (himnacanthiis (lalealnx, /'otamoaoltiis gnloHim, Cottus, Oligocottus, Axpidocot- 
tu'n, Xiphiufcr, Maraeuoides, Podolhecits, Sdhastichlhys, etc. (28 speci<5s) from Alaska 
and one species from Chili. 
T. H. Streets, Passed Assistant Surgeon, U. S. Nav.y, steamer Carlisle Patlernon, 

16890. '85. (VII) 



742 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, ISSfi. 

Mauink Invickikijuatios, (Voui 7Vl:i.sk;i. 

T. H. Stkkkts, Passtid Assistant. Surgeon, U. .S. Navy, stii.Miu'-r Carlisle Patkr- 
son. 16890. '85. (xi) 

Common LiTTOUAL Shells, from Alaska. 

T. H. Stkkets, Pas.scMl Assistant Sni'<;eon, U. S. Navy, ateam«r Carlisle Palter- 
son. 16890. '85. (IX) 
Rkptilf.s, Diemi/cit/lus toro.tiis and Amhli/stoma decor Heal um, from Alaska. 

T. II. Stkkkts, Passed Assistant Surgeon, U. S. Navy, steamer Carlixle Pallcr- 
so)i. 10890. 'H.'-j. (VI) 
Lauuadouitk, a lime soda foldbpar. 

(iisoiiGK \V. Watkins, Moriali, Essex Comity, New York. 16891. 'S^>. (xviii) 
Dried Lizard, from near Ciudad, Bolivia. 

F. A. Lucas, U. S. National Museum. 1(:H;)2. 'S.'i. (vi) 
Afuican Figukes, 2 mannikius prepared under the direction of Prof. Ilamy, Troca- 
dero Museum. (Purchased.) 

Ji;lks Hebeut, 9, rue Fleuri Martin, Paris, France. 10-9:1. '^5. (ii, a) 

Shells. Tweuly-three specimens. 

Charles W. Johnson, Saint Augustiiic, Florida. 10894. '85. (ix) 
Orsidian.* 

Commissioner oe New Mexico. 10895. '85. (n,A) 
Obsidian and pumice stone, for examination. 

Dr. T. S. Snow, Baker City, Oregon. 10890. '85. (xvi) 
Microscope and accessories, old pattern. 

Smithsonian Institution. 10897. '85. (i) 
Fish Decoy used by fishermen of the Great Lakes in connection with spearing trout. 

Dr. Trumkouu. Mackinaw, Michigan. 10898. '85. (i) 
"Whiteeisu Floats, three forms, and one sinker. 

William Smith, Frankfort, Michigan. 10899. '85. (i) 
Trout Bobbing Line, rigged for use. 

Kinsley G. House, Oconto, Wisconsin. 10900. '85. (i) 
Salamanders, Amhlystoma iigrinnm j{ny (27). 

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U. S. Army, Fort Wingate, New Mexu^-o. 10901. '85. 
(VI) 

Concretion. 

John W. Clark, Nnshagak, Alaska. 10902. '85. (xvii) 
Ivory Carving representing an Eskimo dance, nuidc by a native. 

John VV. Claihc, Nnshagak, Alaska. 10902. '8.5. (ii, a) 
Black Duck, Anas ohf<cura (Mall.ard variety). A strangt^ freji.k of color, approach- 
ing an albino state. 

Russell Robinson, Richmond, Virginia. 1090o. '85. (v, a) 
Bird Skins, CenlropuH enryccrcns, from Borneo ; Plaliicichla Jlaripe.s, Spinns citcuUatus, 
and Sporophila sp.. from Venezuela (7 s)>eci:nens). 

II. K.COALE, Chicago, Illinois. 10904. '85. (v, a) 
Block of Lava, from Vesuvius. 

Mrs. Edgar Dawson, Baltimore, Maryland. 10)905. '85. (i) 
Bird's Nest, from Bladeuslield, near Warsaw, Virginia,. 

Mrs. Mary Burr, care Mrs. M. V. linrr, (Jeneral Land Oflice. KWOO. '85 

(V, B) 

Oi:e, foi- examination. 

William E. Green, Troy, Alabama. 10907. '85. (xviii) 

* Received from New Orleans Exposition. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 743 

Brook Tkoi't, Sitlrdiima fonl'malis. 

A. l'\ WoosTKK, Norfolk, Couiiocticiit. 1(51)08. '8.'). (vii) 
Canxistkk shot iiiul miunio balls, from l),ittIefiold of Bull Run, Viriiinia. 

II. M. Smith, U.S. National Museuiu. 1090'J. K). (i) 
CoQi'iXA, slioll-rock, from the Spanish fort at Saint Anirnstino, Florida. 

A. Zk.no SuiNDLEit, U. S. National Mnsonm. KiDlO. 'S'>. (i) 
]>itiKr> Skin of a species of Ophiihtln/fi, from Bermuda. 

Dr. F. il. IlAMr.m, Anhurn, New York. KilUl. 'Hf.. (vii) 
I'lIOToGUArHS from negatives of views in Soullieast Alaska. 

.\. P. Nir.LACK, l':nsi<.vn,ll. S. N. Itl'.lli. '><>. (n,A) 
Mammals, I'vocijon rir/jiiiidinis ^, ycoloiiin floi-'tdaua ,^ , Arricoht rijxiriiis ^f , SpcfuK^- 
phihiii (irtiiiiviKniN, 7«m/«s tifiiaitcu-s Totvnsendii, Sjxrinophihix (iraiiniuints. S. (/kidi- 
viiinis DoiijildHfii ai'.d Lcpus sijiraticus aiiduhoui (2\ specimens). 

Waltkk !•'. r.KYAXT, OakLind, California. li'iHK!. 'S.'). (i\) 

" BiDAKivA," or skin canoe, with paddles, from Alaska. 

Chaulks II. TowNSiixn, U. S. Fish Commission. ICiUll. '8.'). (n,A) 

FossTi. Shklls, from Alaska. 

Charles H. TowNSEND, U. S. Fish Commission. KiOll. 'H.'i. (ix) 
AcTixiAXs, from Alaska. 

Chai!LES H. TowxsEXi), U. S. Fish Commission. 1()'.)M. 'S.''). (xi) 
Bird Skkleto.vs, Circua liudfionius. Lams /jlauciis, D'lomcdca uUirtptK, Cornix ciiniir- 
orM«, Tiniiiniciilas spfirrerlns, and Lomria arra, from Alaska. 

Chari.es II. TowxSENP, IT. S. Fish Commission. 1()'J14. 'S.^. (xii) 
M.\MMALS, Ercthrizon dorsalis epixanthux, Tliuhtrcfo.-^ vuirituuKH, Svliinis lnulnotiii(s, 
Eumotopias stelleri, Callurhiniis urfiiniis, and Eiihi/diis Intri'^ (hones), from Alaska. 

Chaui.es H. To WNSEXi), U S. Fish Commission. liiDl I. '8'). (xii) 

Birds. A collection of 152 specimens, from Ouualaslika Island, St. Paul's Island, 
Otter Island, Port Clarence, Kotzebne Sound, St. Matthews' Island, and St. (ieorge 
Island. The rarest or most important are the followiuy: Kennicott's Warhler 
{ritylloscopus horealis), Alaskan Wren {Troglodijies al(iHcenses), Kowak Chicka- 
dee (Pants stoneyi, n. sp.).* 

Charles H. TowNSEXD, U. S. Fish Commission. 1G';)14. '6:^. (v, a) 
In addition to these were good series of such characteristic or peculiar Alaskan 
liirds as Leiicostictef/riseoniidia, Mido.spizn clnerea. McKay's Snowtlake {I'lrclroplKitics 
hfipcrboreus), I'ryhilov Snowllake (/'. nicalis tonuiscudi, n. sulisp, ). and Tjonj^-loed Stint 
( Trirn/a dnmatrnsLs^). 

ICliMlNE, I'liloriiis eriniiiea, in the tiesh. 

A. K. Dodge, East Saginaw, Michij^an. IfiDl."). 'S;'). (iv) 

Bird Ski.ns. Chewink (Towhee), Pipilo cri/throplitJialmiis, and Kinghird (Bee Martin), 
Tijrannas caroUiien>>is. 
Lewis B. Woodriiee, 14 East Sixty-eighth street. New York. WOW,. '8.">. (v, a) 

Nests and Eggs of Chewink (Towhee), Pipilo (riitliroj)htluilntiin, -.iwd o( K\n-^\nii\ [Wfc 
Martin), 'J'ljvannus caroliiiensis. S(!t (d" four eggs in each. (Jolle.cted at. 1/itchlield, 
Conn., June, 188."). 

Lewis J^. Woodim'ek, 14 EastSixty-c^ighth street. New Yoik. W)[)W,. '8'.. ( v, it) 

P'ossiL Plants. (Returned.) 

R. P. Sharples, Plnenixville, Pennsylvania. KiDlT. '85. (xix) 

*A young bird ; characters of the species first clearly shown by Lieutenant Stoney'a 
adult examples. 

tNew to North Annu-ican fauna. 



744 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1880. 

1xvki!TK];katk Fossu.s. 

R. ]\ SnAHPLKS, Pbceuixville, Peuusj'lvania. 16917. 'H'). (xiii, B) 
I>ui:xT Clay, ioiiiid in a mound in Arizona, and bearing impressions of sticks, twigs, 
etc. (l(j specimens). 

D •. Edwakd Palmer, Smithsonian Institution. 16919. '85. (iii) 
Rough Octopus, Octopus rui/osus, Bosc. 

A. R. Akkn, Cat Island Liglit-bonse Bay, Saint Louis, Missouri. 10920. '85. 

(IX) 

Fat Head, rimephahs promelas (5 specimens), from an artesi;in well. 

Louis Lagej;. Aberdeen, Idabo Territory. Iu9'21. '85. (vii) 
Rhinoceuos IIornbill, Buceros hicorvis. 

W. A. CONKLIN, Central Parlc Menagerie, New York City. Id'.i^v?. '-5. (xiii) 
Arsenical Ikox Pyrites and garnet, from tlio Bhiek Hills; for (ixamiuation and 
leport. 

H. I. Bkowx, Ponoa, Nebraska. 16923. '85. (xvi) 

Mammal Skins (Vom Queensland and Tasmania, as follows: (1) Maeropus yiganiens 
Scbreb., <? and $ ; (2) M. rohusfiis Gld., <? and 9 (Jav.); (3) M. vuJks Desm., 
c? and 9 ; (4) M. parriji Ben., 9 ; (5) Halmaturus dorsalis Gr., $ and 9 ; (6) 
77. riificoUis Desm., ^ ; (7) 77. temporalis D;'- Vis, $ ; (8) H. thetidifi F. Cuv. 9 ; 
(9) rctaaurixta laf/iKinoida Desm., 9 ! (1*0 I^nsuunis rnaciilatus Shaw, 9 j (H) 
7^. (jeoffroijl Gld. 9 (mounted) ; (12) riiascolonnjs womhatiis P(!r. et Less., Tas- 
mania; (13) Phascolarr.tos cinereiis Goldf., ^ and 9 ; (14) Bcttonfjia rufescens 
Waterh., ^ and 9; (l'>) Ornitliorhi/nchus paj'adoxits Blum.; (16) Hi/drnmys chri/so- 
(/astcr Geo!'., 9 j ^7) Pt<Topiis scapuJaius Peters. All Queensland specimens ex- 
cept No. 12. 
Queensland Museum, Brisbane, Queensland. 16924. '85. (iv) 
Phosphates, from the High Rock Phosphate Mine. 

High Rock Phosphate Mine. (Through Walter \V. Pickford, manager), 
Buckingham, Province of Quebec, Canada. 16925. ^S7y. (xviii) 
Bonneted Macaque, Macacus siincnn ^ . 

W. A. CONKLiN, Central Park Menagerie, New York City. 16920. '86. (iv) 
Indian Tortoise. 

W. A. CoNKLiN, Central Park Menagerie, New York City. 16926. '85. (vi) 
Cast of Stone Disk, with carvings. Originally found near Plymouth, Marshall 
County, Indiana. 

George A. Baker, 102 Soufh Michig.an street, South Bend, Indiana. 16927. 
'85. (Ill) 
Cari'I'^t, made by the Navajo weavers for Thomas Keam, and said to lie thi^ most 
elabonite and costly piece of work ever undertaken by the Navajos. Valued at 
$250. (Deposited.) 
Thcmas Keam, Ream's Canon, Arizona. 1(5928. '85. (li, a) 
Model of Wejegi, one of the Chaco ruins, prepared under the direction of the Bu- 
reau of Ethnology. The model measures about 3 feet bj' 4 feet, and the subject 
is one of the ruins of the Pueblo class. 
Bureau of Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution. 16929. '85. (ii, a) 
Salt, cleavage specimen, from Petite Ansa, Louisiana. 

John M. Avery, New Iberia, Louisiana. (Through U. S. Geological Survey. 
16930. '85. (XVI) 
Laumontite, from Jones' Falls, Baltimore, Maryland. (Exchange.) 

Dr. F. M. Chatard, Baltimore, Maryland. (Through Joseph Willcox.) 16931. 
'85. (XVI) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 74.5 

liAUII'K {J. si).;ciiil;'iis), iVom Diil'inii, Hili;l:Miii. ( l*) \'cliaiij;o. ) 

JosKPH VViLLCOX, Meilia, rcausyhjuiia. ir..).;-,'. "rfli. (xvi) 

Wood. Section of ;> pile iVoiii a wharf at Cape. Henry, Virginia, completely riddled 
l)y tbo boring of the ship-worm, Teredo navalis. 
A. B. Johnson, Light-IIonse Board. l()y:!3. '8:>. (ix) 

Ckystai.s (;>), from dejjosit near INIoriah, Essex County, New York. 

Gkorgk W. Watkixs, Mo'-iah, New York. WJ.U. '■<:>. (xv\) 

DuiKD Potato. 

C. O. Stillwkll, Ivomc, Georgia. icmr>. '.S5. (i) 

Mammals: Xeotoma Jlorhlann, Tliomomijf: ialpaides umhriiius, ArricoJa riparins^ Pcrog- 
naihus poiiciUatah-, Ihsperoiin/s lencopKs, and Tamias anidHcitu, between iownsriidi 
and qiiadririltaiun. 
Frank E. Blaisdkll, Poway, San Diego Comity, California. ir/.Kin. '8.'). (iv) 

Loco Wekd, A/iiratjahis Bi(j(dotci Gray, ])robal)ly from Texas. 

Dr. W. TllOKNTON Paukkk, Nowjiort. Rhode Island. 1(>037. '8r>. (xv) 

Granite (2 specimens), ami one each of hornblende and red clay. 
Larkin King, San Saba, Texas. 1G9:58. '85. (xvi) 

IToRNBLENDK gueiss, Containing epidote; for examination and report. 

Charles Miller, .ir., P. O. Box 1)5, Sanborn, Now York. ir)I»:'.;). '85. (xvii) 
Slate (2 specimens) and impure limoniti^; for examination and report. 

C. P. McGiMSEY, Arkadelphia, Arkansas. Ui'JlO. '85. (xvi) 

Bracelets, of turtle-shell, made at Nassau, N. P., Bahamas, West Indies. 

Mrs. I']PES Sargent, :5:!8 Pennsylvania avenue, Washington, District of Co- 
lumbia. 1()'.)41. '85. (I) 

Brick. Piece of a brick from an old well at Fort Ticonderoga, Lake Chaniplaiu) 
New York, used during the Revolutionary war. 

Mrs. Epes Sargent, 3:58 Pennsylvania avenue, Washington, District of Co- 
lumbia. 16941. '85. (I) 

Brown Iron Ore; for examination and report. 

C. D. Galvin, New York City. 1(5942. '85. (xvi) 
Musical Instrument. Chinese sanheen, in exchange for carvings and baskets of 
North American Indians. 
J. H. Renshaw, U. S. Geological Survey. 1G943. '85. (n,A) 
Galena, Sulphide of lead, for examination and report. 

Oliver Rase, Ivanpah, San Bernardino, California. 16944. '85. (xvi) 
Chamois Horn. Material furnished by the Mnscum and mounted by Mi-. Kalden- 
berg aa a paper-knife. 

F.J. Kaldenberg, 124 Fulton street, New Y'ork. 16945. '85. (i) 
Flint Implemp:nts. Collection of 109 specimens on nine tablets, including arrow- 
heads, spear-heads, and darts; from Flint Ridge, Muskingum County, Ohio. 
This collection is made up from findings in the western part of tiie county. The 
flint and quartz work of which they are made is found in the above neighbor- 
liood in <'i ridge or row oi' hills, known in the locality as Flint Ridg(\ As this 
peculiar rock formation is the only one of the kind in this section, it must have 
furnished the su])ply of mat<!rial for the manufacture of these darts and spear- 
lieads for a large scope of country. 
T. F.Spangler, Jame.svilbi, Ohio. 16946. '85 (iii) 
Shells (71 species), types of paper on Alaskan shells, and ;'.() species of marine shells 
from Norway. 

Dr. A. Kraksk, B.Mlin, I'nissi.i. (Through WiJliatn If. Dall. ) lt.9l7. '85. (ix) 



746 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1880). 

Ampiiu'od (MtusTAC'iOAX ; sorvcs as food for mackerel. 

W. A. Wn.cox, Gloucester, Massaclmsctts. 16948. '85. (xi) 
Rocks. 

Mrs. H. C. Beckwith, Coleman Station, New York. 16949. '8.'>. (xvii) 
Stonk Tmplemknts from Fi-auce. 

Thomas VVilsox, Wasbington, District of Columbia. 16950. '85. (m) 
OuK from Rockliridgo, Virginia ; for report. 

S. II. Letciiick, Lexington, Virginia. 16951. '85. (xviii) 
Lx\UGiiiNG Gull, Larus atricilla, jnv. 

E. C. Greenwood, Nantucket, Massacliusetts. 16952. '85. (v, a) 
Indian Basket, etc. : Specimens of corn-husk basketry, clothing, and weapons of 
tlic Shetiniaslia Indians, and specimen of basketry of the Ciioct.iw Indians. 
Also specimens of Nankin cotton and decorticated moss work.* 

C. J. Barrows, commissioner for Louisiana at New Ork^ans Exposition. 
16953, '85. (II, a) 
Textiles exhibited at the New Orleans Exposition. 

PjAGLe and Ph(Enix Mills, Columbus, Georgia. (Through Dr. Bursy, presi- 
dent.) 16954. '85. (I) 
Negro Manufactures: Basketry, clothing, tujielo gum, handiwork of the negroes. 
James J. Spelman, superintendent Colored People's Exhibit, New Orleans, 
Louisiana. 169.55. 'S5. (ii, a) 

Pump Drill:* 

James J. Spelman, superintendent Colored People's Exhibit, Now Orleans, La. 
16955. '8'. (II, a) 
Indian Implements, etc., l)asketry, cradles, water jug, and seeds, from Ute Indians, 
of Nevada. 

W. M. Havejtor, Reno, Nev. (acting for Nevada at the New Orleans Expo- 
sition). 16956. '85. (II, a) 

Fish Trap, used in Venezuela.* 

E. Martinez, representative of Venezuela at the New Orleans Exposition. 
169.57. '85. (I) 

Palmetto Hats.* 

Mrs. S. G. Fowler, Handsborongh, Mississippi. 16958. '85. (ii, a) 

Corn-shuck Hat.* 

Miss Ellen Cleary, Iland.sborough, Mississippi. 169.59. '85. (ii, a) 

P'eather-work. * 

Milton J. Flood, Sterling, Massachusetts. 16960. '85. (i) 

Negro Manufactures: Horse collars, trays of the tupelo gum, and specimens of 
basketry, made by the negroes of Mississippi.* 

General Stephen D. Lee and Professor Piiares. Mississippi 16961. '«5. 
(a. A) 

Brooms, made from the young leaves of palmetto; from Jamaica.* 
Government of Jamaica. 16962. '85. (ii, a) 

Coal. 

Stephen Gray, Jr., Olympia, Bath County, Kentucky. 1696:5. '85. (xviii) 

Plants, from Nevada. " 

Hon. R. W. Furnas, commissioner from Nebraska, Brownsville, Nebraska. 
16964. '85. (XV) 

* Received from the New Orleans Exposition. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 747 

C!l.\y, for i'xaiiiiii;i(i(>ii aiul rcpdi't. 

W. A. Spknck, Jacksoiivillo, Floridii. UVMht. '8'). (xviir) 
Minerals. Oae rock carryiiii; iron pyrites aiul <mn Hlit^litl.v staiiusd with copper. 

M. A. Tevl, Riverside, Sau Beruardiiio Comity, California. IGl);;/). '8'). (xvi) 
Biitns' Eggs. Cardinal Grosbeak, Cardinnlis ri.ri;iiilaiins ; Saint Lucas Cardinal, Car- 
dinaHs I'irijinianus ujuvufi ; White-rumpod Siirike, Lanias liidoiucinnns cxcuhilo- 
roidcs. 
]\()s\VKLT. WiiKKLKR, Jr., Sacaton, Arizona. 1();)(J7. '8.'). (v, u) 

Collie Bitch ("Vesta"), Canis famiJ'Ktris, from Glencoo Collie kennels. 

IL T. LiiEi'EV, Gloncoe Collie kennels, Bethlohem, Pennsylvania. 1(I9G8. '8.5. 
(XII) 
EvEXiXG GuosnEAic, Hcsperiphona vcs2)erfina. 

Will H. Walkkh, ;{:i Yamhill street, Portland, Oregon. 1GI1GD. '80. O'.a.) 
CoitKAX PoTTi'-RY. Tweuty-fivc pieces of table crockery, bottles, water-jar, wine- 
cup, etc. Some of the pieces are from three hundred to seven hundred years old. 
From Corea. 
J. B. Beknadou, Ensign, U. S. Navy, Nagasaki, Japan. KWTO. '80. (1) 

Drugs from Corea (3 specimens). 

J. B. Bernadou, Ensign, U.S. Navy, Nagasaki, Japan. l(')i)70. 'd."> (i) 

Musical iNSTUU.MEXr. A stringed instrument, seemingly a combination of the Chi- 
nese kiu and the Jajiauese koto. From Corea. 

J. B. Beiinadou, Ensign, U.S. Navy, Nagasaki, Japan. lODTO. 's.'). (i) 

FAi'.iacs, from Corea. 

J. B. Bernadou. Ensign, U. S. Navy, Nagasaki, Japan. 101)70. '85. (i) 

Ethnological Oiuects, from Corea. 

J. B. Bernadou, Ensign, U. S. Navy, Nagasaki, Japan. ir)',)70. 'S5. (11, a) 

Fishes, including Slromatens, Sqnahis, Scnxilx'rumonis, Xipltoii, Saitrida, CUipca, I'lafi/- 
ciphalus, Tetrodon, Solca, Corvina, Sckfiia, Miigil, etc. 
J. B. Bernadou, Ensign, U. S. Navy, Nagasaki, Japan. 16970. '65. (vii) 

Turtle, from Corea. 

J.B. Bernadou, Ensign, U.S. Navy, Nagasaki, Japan, l(i!»70. '85. (vi) 

Cei'halopods (4 specimens), from Corea. 

J. B. Bernadou, Ensign, U. S. Navy, Nagasaki, Japan. 1G'J70. '65. (ix) 

Maui NIC Inveistebrates, from Corea, 

J. I]. Bernadou, Ensign, U. S. Navy, Nagasaki, Japan. 1G1)7(). '85. (xi) 

Slat, of Marrle, 10 by 29 inches, disk of yellow marble, sloiic pencil, j irof yellow 
and green marlile, box made of red stone, from Corea. 
J. B. Bernadou, Finsign, U. S. Navy, Nagasaki, .Japan. 1(11)70. '85. (xvu) 

Pottery. 

D. F. Haynes & Co., Baltimore, Maryland. 1G1)71. '85. (i) 

Siamese Silver Coin, 1 fnang =- 7J cents. (Deposited.) 

.loiiN M. N'OAII, U.S. National Museum. 161)7-2. '85. (i) 

Dlvtomaceous Earth, from Massapomvx, Spottsylvania County, Virginia. 

KouEKT 1'. Bkjlow, Washington, District of Columbia. 1G1)7:5. '85. (xi"* 

SroNK l.Mi'LKMENTS. A leaf-sliajxid imphMncnt, a spear-licail, 147 arrow-li'^ids. 2 
grooved axes, a stone slab with mortar cavities on both sides, a IVagmcni, of [tot- 
tery, and 18 fragments of stone implements, from Massaponax, Si>ottsylvania, 
CoiMiTy, Virginia. 

lioRERT P. BiGLOW, Washington, District of Columbia. 16973. '85. (111) 



748 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Antiquities. A slcnll and bones from an Indian grave, and a clay pipe, one-laalf of a 
.sm;ill clay vessel, and 5 copper beads, from a nionnd near Warner's Landing, 
Vernon County, Wisconsin. Also a leaf-shaped implement, with a handle at- 
tached. 
Dr. J. L. De Witt, Newton, Vernon Couuty, Wisconsin. 1G974. '85. (iii) 

CONE-IN-CONE, a peculiar concretionary form. 

Dr. J. L. Dk Witt, Newton, Vernon County, Wisconsin. IG374. '35, (xvii) 
Invertebrate Fossil, Ostrea congesta. 

Dr. J. L. De Witt, Newton, Vernon County, Wisconsin. 16974. '8.5. (xiii, b) 
Fossil Shells, specimens of Choneies and Prodacns, with sections of crinoid stems. 

M. J. Becker, Fort Scott, Kansas. 16975. '85 (ix) 
Monkey, Cekc<ebus sp. (?), specimen in the flesh. 

II. B. Everett, Dime Museum, city. 16976. '85. (iv) 
Earth, for examination. 

John Brooks, Hedrick, Rush County, New York. 16977. 8'5, (?) 
Tapa Cloth, Samoan Islands, 1869. 

Lieut. Commmauder Charles V. Gridley, U. S. Navy; U. S. steamer "Kear- 
sage." 16978. '85. (ii, a) 
Rocks. A collection of over 100 specimens, including diorites, diabases, gabbros, sye- 
nite, granite, gneiss, mica-schist, quartz, quartz-porphyry, slate; also a vertical 
column showing relative age and comparative thickness of the Archa'au, Cam- 
brian, and Silurian formations of this slate, etc., from New Hampshire. 

C. H. Hitchcock, Hanover, New Hampshire. 16979. '85. (xv) 
Shellac, crude and commercial, and articles showing its use. 

Thomas Donaldson, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 16980. '8.5. (i) 
Red Granite. 

H.D.Gurney, Saint Paul, Minnesota. 16981. '85. (xvii) 
Coke. 

H. Simon, 20 Mount street, Manchester, England. 16982. '85. (xviii) 
Grey Corundum and kyanite, from Georgia. (Exchange.) 

N. P. Pkatt, Atlanta, Georgia. 16983. '85. (xvi) 
Bronze Medal. Annual Assay of the Mint, 1776-1876. 

Wm. J. Green, U. S. National Museum. 16984. '85. (i) 
Deer, Cervus axis, three days old. 

W. A. Conklin, Central Park Menagerie, New York City. 169S5. 'S5. (iv) 
Red tailed Buzzard, Bnfeo horealis, from Fayette County, Kentucky. 

T. H. Morgan, Broadway, Lexirgton, Kentucky. 16986. '85. (v, a) 

Steam-transportation. Drawings, pieces of iron rail, castings, etc. 

Pennsylvania Railroad Company, Camden, New Jersey. (Through J. E. 
Watkius.) 16987.' '85. (i) 
Coke. 

H. Simon, 20 Mount street, Manchester, England. 16988. '85. (xvm) 

Birds. A collection of 171 specimens, 68 species, mostly from the Old World. Amongst 
these may be especially mentioned a good series {2'i) of Red-polls {Acanthis), A. 
Unaria, from western Siberia and Japan ; A. caheret, from England, and A. cjilipes, 
from western Siberia. The greater part of the collection, however, consists of 
water birds. 
Henry Seebohm, Loudon, England. 16989. '85.. (V, a) 

* Decorated Ostrich Egg and two feather fans. 16990. '85. (i) 

* Received from New Orleans Exposition through Department of State. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 749 

* Glassware. 

LuDWiG MoSER, Carlsbad, B()homi:i. 16991. 'S^k (i) 
Birds Eggs (3), of Ruby-crowned Kiii,i;i('t, Ixcfjtilus cahuduld. from New York. 
DwiGHT D. Stoxe, Now York. U)99i. '85. (v, u) 

* Gums axd Dyes, from Mexico. 

Mexican Commission. WMA. '85. (i) 
Animal Products.* Shark's skin, furs, hair ropes, small sieve, and dried insects, from 
Mexico. 
Mexican Commission. liWA. 'SG. (i) 

Foods.* 

Mexicax Commission. 10993. '85. (i) 

Ethnological Oiuects* of basketry, clothing, horse equipments, beddinj^, carpet- 
ing, etc., from Mexico. 

Mexican Commission. 1()993. '8i;. (ii, a) 
Textiles," wool and fabers, from Mexico. 

Mexican Commission. 16993. '85. (i) 
Geological Maps* (11) from Belgium. 

Belgian Commission. 1G994. '85. (xvii) 
Box,t carved out of talc bj"^ a native of Bombay. 16995. '85. (xvi) 
Woods t (20 samples). 16995. '85. (xv) 
Ethnological Objects, t Carved olive-wood, carved stone from the river Jordan, 

and two pairs of shoes. 1()995. '85. (ii, a) 
Paper * (38 samples), iauo white and colored cciliug-paper, from Duren, Province of 
Rhine. « 

Felix HCH. Sciioeller, Dnrin, Province of Rhine. ir)99i). '85. (I) 
Steatitp:, chrysocolla, cerargyrite, enib(dite, etc., from Souora, Mexico. 

Governor of SoNORA, Mexico. (Through Victor Aguilar). 16997. '85. (xvi) 
Gold and Silver Ores.* 

Governor of Sonora, Sonora, Mexico. 16997. '86. (xviii) 
Earthenware Flute,* painted gourd rattle, and violin, from Chiapas, Mexico. 

Commissioner OF Chiapas, Mexico. 16998. '85. (i) 
LiMONiTE (1 specimen) and 4 specimens of coral altered into chalcedony. 

S. T. Walker, Milton, Florida. 16999. '85. (xvi) 
Rocks,* concretions, and fulgurites (S si)ecimens). 

S. T. Walker, Milton, Florida. 16999. '85. (xvii) 

CiiuSTACEyE from Caribbean Sea. 

Prof. S. I. Smith, New Haven, Connecticut. 17000. '^^^5. (xi) 

Gold and Silver Ores.* 

M. Agilla, Sonora, State of Sonora, Mexico. 17001. '85. (xviii) 

Ores* from Durango, Mexico. 

Seuor Manuel Drocino, Pachuca, Hidalgo, Mexico. 17002. '85. (xviii) 
Ores* from Guerrero, Mexico. 

Sehor Manuel Drocino, Pachuca, Hidalgo, Mexico. 17003. '85. (xviii) 

Ores* from the State of Michoacan, Mexico. 

Seuor Manuel Drocino, Pachuca, Hidalgo, Mexico. 17001. '85. (xviii) 

Ores* from the State of Oaxaca, Mexico, 

Senor Manuel Drocino, Pachuca, Hidalgo, Mexico. 17005 '85. (xviii) 

'Received from Ntjw Orleans Exjjosition. 

t Received from New Orleans Exposition through Department of State. 



750 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Okes* from tlio State of Mexico, Mexico. 

Seuor Manuel Duocino, Pacliuca, Hidalgo, Mexico. 1700G. '85. (xviii) 

Okes* from the State of Tlascala, Mexico. 

Seiior Manuel Dkocino, Pacbnca, Hidalgo, Mexico. 17007. '85. (xviii) 

Ores* from the State of Puebla, Mexico. 

Seuor Manuel Drocino, Pachuca, Hidalgo, Mexico. 17008. '85. (xviii) 
Ores* from the State of Sau Luis Potosi, Mexico. 

Seuor Manuel Drocino, Pachuca, Hidalgo, Mexico. 1700'J. '85. (xviii) 
Ores* from the States of Vera Crnz, New Leon, Jalisco, Chiapas, and Chihuahua, 
Mexico. 

Seuor Manuel Drocino, Pachuca, Hidalgo, Mexico. 17010. '85. (xviii) 

Ores* from the State of Hidalgo, Mexico. 

Seuor Manuel Drocino, Pachuca, Hidalgo, Mexico. 17011. '85. (xviii) 

Ores* from the State of Hidalgo, Mexico. 

Seuor Manuel Drocino, Pachuca, Hidalgo, Mexico. 17012. '85. (xviii) 

Silver Ores.* Also a very complete illustration of the Real del Monte Mining 
Company's works ; exhibited at the New Orleans Exposition. 

Real del Monte Mining Company, Pachuca, Mexico. (Through Jos6 de 
Landero y Cos.) 17013. '85. (xviii) 
Ores* from the State of Zacatecas, Mexico. 

Seiior Bonilla, in charge of observatory of Zacatecas, Zacatecas, Mexico. 

17014. '85. (XVIII) 

Copper Ores* from the State of Aguas Calientes, Mexico. 

Seiior Bonilla, in charge of observatory of Zacatecas, Zacatecas, Mexico. 

17015. '85. (XVIII) • 

EusYNCHiTE* (Tritochorite or Ramirite), from the State of Sau Luis Potosi, Mexico. 

Senor Aguillera. 17016. '85. (xvi) 
Stoneware,* jugs, spirit bottles, etc. 

Port Dundas Pottery Company, Glasgow, Scotland. 17017. '85. (i) 
Statuettes, t " Sunshine" and " Storm," from Stallbrdshire, England. 

Robinson and Leadbeater, Stoke-npon-Trent, Staffordshire, England. 17018. 
'85. (I) 
Figure of a Pig, * in burnt clay. 

Arkansas Commissioner. 17019. '85. (i) 
Boats, t Four largo models. 

John W. Parry, Sarnia, Ontario, Canada. 170'J0. '8(>. (i) 
PYRRHOTiTEt (1 specimen), and Micaceous Hematite (1 si)ecimen), from Sweden. 

17021. '85. (XVI) 
EURITE (Halleflint gneiss) (4 specimens), from New Hopperborg, Westmorland, Swe- 
den, and 2 specimens of Halleflint, from Danuemora Mine, U2)laud, Sweden. 
17021. '85. (XVII) 
OuKst from Sweden. 

17021. '85. (XVIII) 

Apatite t (5 specs.) from Kiugstou, Ontario. 

17U22. '86. (XVI) 
Ores! from Kingston, Ontario. 

17022. '85. (xviiij 
COALt from Japan. 

17023. '86. (XVIII) 

■^Received from New Oiieaus Exposition. 

t Received from New Orleans Exposition through Department of State. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 751 

Minerals* from Cosfii Rica. 

17024. '80. (XVIII) 

Bkicks and tilks* from Mexico. 

17025. '8.5 (I) 
FiBEUS,* ropes, etc., from Hayti. 

Government of Hayti. 1702G. 'S.'). (i) 
Oil Portraits t of Haytiaii chiefs (1804-188.')). Also baskets, wbips, otc.t 

GOVEKNMENT OF HaYTI. 1702(). '85. (II, A) 

Pottery* from Hayti. 

Government of Hayti. 17020. '85. (i) 
Sponges* (2 specs.) fouud growing together; both recent; from near Key West, 
Florida. 

W. H. Seuring, conmiissioner for Flori(hv. 17027. 'Sf). (xi) 
Raw silk. I Tiiree hanks, the product of the Yama Mai, the wildoak silk-worm of 
Japcan ; also two cocoons. 
CoMMisSK)NEi: FOR Yeiiimf, Japau. 17028. '85. (i) 
Souvenir of Canadian .Sports.* Miniature suow-shoes, toboggan, and Lacrosse 
racquet. 

17029. '85. (11, A) 

Slab of Travertink Marble! from Tecali, Puobhi, Mexico. 

Mexican Geograpuical and Exploring Commission. 17030. '80. (xvi) 

FERNS,t 2 sets, each containing 110 species, some of which are new to science, and 
all new to the collection. 
17031. '80. (XV) 

Model of Mississippi Kiver Steam-boat.t 

E. C. Carroll, Vicksbuig, Miss. 17032. '85 (i) 

Coal* from Norway. 

17033. '80. (xviii) 
AsPHALTUM* from Scotland. 

17034. '80. (xviu) 
Ores from Mexico.* 

17035. '80. (xviii) 

Nuggets and Ores* (fac similes), from Australia- 

17030. '80. (XVIII) 
Drum* from Costa Rica. 

17037. '80. (I) 

Leaf Tobacco' from .lava. 

17037. '85. (I J 

Ethnological Ob.jkcts* from Hawaiian Island, including stdiool-books, photogi'iiphs 
of King and Queen, and scenery about the island ; t^iJa cloth, reticule, and neck- 
lace of koa seeds, necklace of kukui seeds (candle-nut seeds); 2 flags, and a 
native drum made from a koa log and covered with hog's hide. AlsoO specimens 
of wood. 
Hawaiian Government. 17038. '86. (ii) 
GoLio,' a food made of toasted grain and salt, and ground for us(^. 
17039. '80. (I) 

* Received from New Orleans Exposition through Department of State, 
t For further information concerning this accession see Report on Department of 
Ethnology, jiage 94. 

t Received from New Orleans Exposition. 



752 REPOirr on national museum, i8«o. 

Ultramarine (8 bottles), from Hesseu, Germany. 

Blaufarbenwerk Marienberg, Beusheim,Gros!sli. Hesseti, Germany. 17040. 
'«5. (I) 

Spoons,* ladles, three pairs of shoes, etc. 

Hon. Jacob SCHOENiiOF, U. S. CousuljTunstall, England. 17011. 'ti6. (ii, a) 

Dry Ochre* (11 bottles) from Marseilles, France. 

lion. Franic H. Maso.v, U. S. Consul, Marseilles. 17042. '8G. (i) 

Ores,* from Canada. 

17043. '85. (XVIII) 
Salts,* from Germany. 

17044. '85. (XVIII) 

Gold Ores,* from the Idaho Mine, California. 

17045. '85. (xvui) 

Surgical Dressings,* iu use in German hospitals. 

17046. '85. (I) 

Military and Woolen goods,* from Germany. 

17047. '85. (I) 

Ethnological objects,* straw hats, common test cnps, carved test cnps, stands for 
test cnps, common ynacles, carved gnacles, crupper, saddle-bags, silk and cotton 
rebosa, sample of cloth manufactured iu Leon, samples of ])ita fiber extracted 
by machinery and by use of solvent, and cloth hammock with cabaya rope, na- 
tive pottery, plow, yoke for oxen, cake of sugar, and ear-rings madeof cayoluut. 
H. H. Leavitt, U. S. Consul, Managua, Nicaragua. 17048. 'cO. (ii,a) 
CiiKOMos,* historical, geogra))hical, etc., 4 portfolios. 

Edwaud IIolzf.l, Vienna, Austria. 17049. '8(5. (i) 
Silver Model* of Sliandou Churcli, Ireland. (Returned.) 

William Egan & Sons, Cork, Ireland. 17050. '85. (i) 
BuTTKR-BALL DucK, CiiarlloneUa alheola. 

Henry Peters, St. John's Ward, Eato; prise, Florida. 17051. ^^. (v, a) 

Mud-fish, Amia calva. 

M. Wilson, Washington, District of Columbia. 17052. '86. (vii) 
Pyrolusite. 

Mrs. W. II. Fklton, Ceutreville, Georgia. 17053. '8G. (xvi) 

Stone Blocks. 

Pennsylvania K.iil."oad Company. 17054. '86. (i) 
Merganser, Merganser americanus, from near Mt. Verubn, Virginia. 

Hugh M. Smith, U. S. National Museum. 17055. '80. (v, a) 
Iron Pyrites, with quartz andcalcito. 

F. C. HiE'rr, North lliver Mills, Hampshire County, West Virginia. 17056. 
'86. (XVI) 
Wooden Masks, from Alaska. 

Lieut. T. DixBolles, U. S. Navy. 17057. '86. (ii, a) 
Rose Fish, Schastes mariuuti. 

ViNAL N. Edwakds, Wood's Holl, Massachusetts. 170.58. '86. (vii) 
Marine Fossil Shells, Post Pliocene, including Ostrea palmula Cpr., Anomia lim- 
atala Dall., I'ccten wquinuJcahis Cpr. 

Dr. Stephen Boweus, Sau Bernardino, California. 17059. ^^ij. (ix) 
Pebbles of Chalcedony from quicksand in a well, 38 feet deej). 

L. S. Daniel, Victoria, Texas. 17060. '86. (xvii) 

* Received from New Orleans Exposition through Department of State. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 753 

AuKxiKArii LiniKit of Piof. .I()s('iili IIiMiry, ibiUd Baltiiuorc, Juik! V), l^\2. 
W. A. Smith, 1(11 i'oarl street, Now York. ITdGl. '.--(;. (i) 

C^UAurz, tVoiu the Ozark MoimtJii us, Arkansas. 

CiiARLKS F. Bkuwx, Hot Springs, Arkiuisais. ITUOi. '«G. (xvi) 

MlNKKALS. 

C. U. SuEPAUD, Cliarlestou, South Caroliua. 17063. '6{'>. (xvi) 

SiccTiON OF Iron Kail. 

Pennsylvania Kailkoad Company, Canukiu, New .Jeisey. ('riirou^li ,J. F. 
Watkiiis.) 170(M. '86. (i) 

Catlinitk. 

N. II. WiNCiiELL, Miuneapolis, Minuesota. 17065. 'b6. (xvu) 

MoLLUSK, a species o( Amnicola, from Florida. 

K. Ellsworth Call, Moliiie, Illinois. 1706(). 'SiJ. (ix) 
FrkoII-water Shells. 

A. G. Wetuerby, Saint Andrew's Bay, Florida. 170()7. 't?6. (ix) 

MoLLUSKS, from the Gulf of Mexico. 

Dr. W. II. Kusii, U. S. C. S. steamer Uhde. 17068. '86. (ix) 
Indian Implements. Slone i>ii>e, wooden stem, pipe-stems, ciariomt, i>ip<-, short 
spear, two bows and 30 irou-poiuted arrows, (jiiiver and 8 arrows, tomahawk, 
l»ipp, rattle, sjmon, head-dress, mail, and war clubs, captured from the Sioux 
Indians at the battle of White Stone Hill by the Second Nebraska Cavalry, Sep- 
tember 3, 1863.* 

Gov. R. W. Furnas, Commissioner for Nebraska at the New Orleans Exiiosi- 
tion. 17069. '86. (ii, a) 
Domestic Utensils,* j^ourds, strainers, chocolate cup, etc., from Mexico. 

Commissioner oe Mexico. 17070. '86. (ii, a) 
Photographic Views of some important tunnels now under proj;re,'-s in America, and 
of the In^ersoll rock-drill machines used in connection therewith. 

Ingersoll Rock Drill Company, Park Place, New York. 17071. '66. 

(XVIII) 
Bird Skins. Harporhynchns crissalis, Sj/lcaitia piUvlata. Jinuo lii/cinnlix, (Jlunulc.-itcti 
tiandwiohensis, Otocoris strigata, Dryobates pabcsccns, Colapica rujipilcus, hithertt) uu- 
described and unknown male; Lobipes hyptrborens. 

L. Belding, Gridley, Butte County, California. 1707'i. '8i;. (v,a) 

Crau-parasites from skates, goose-fish mouth, haddock, aod cod ; worms from the 
stomach of goose-lish, s('a,-raven, sand shark, and haddock ; also sea (leas. 
ViNAL N. Edwards, Wood's Holl, Massachusetts. 17073. 'Sij. (xi) 
Fishes. Lwstomua, Cycloptentu, l'leurontcte><, Liinamla, Brcvoortia, Stolepliorus, Mona- 
canthtis, Coitus, Salvelinns, Dccapturun, and egg of Raia. 

ViNAL N. Edwards, Wood's Holl, Massachusetts. 17073. 'Siij. (vii) 

Mineral, for examination. 

Samuel Scott, Rapid City, Dakota Territory. 17074. '8(). (xvi) 
Fossil Shells, from the Tertiaries of Florida and Mississippi, incliidiug JlaciililtN 
oiiatux Say, and Jlclcmuilella vajillona Lam. 

A. G. Wetiierry, St. Andrew's Bay, Florida. 1707.5. '86. (ix) 
Woolen and Cotton Yarns,! from Russia. 

17076. '86. (I) 
Surgical Appliances,! cotton lint, bandages, etc., used in the hospitals of (jermauy. 
17076. '86. (I) 

* Received from the New Orleans Exposition. 

t Received from New Orleans Exposition through Department of State. 

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 48 



754 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Exotic Lefiooptkua (1)5 species, 218 specimeus), from Europe. 

JoH-N B. Smith, U.S. Natioual Museum. 17077. '8G. (x) 
Exotic BuTTEiui'HES (:U species, 43 specimens), from Africa and India. 

B. Neumcegen, New York, New York. 17078. '86. (x) 
Calcite, for examination. 

H. M. IIOCKMAN, Slanesville, West Virginia. 17079. '8iJ. (xviii) 

Axolotl. 

Charles Ruby, U. S. Army, Fort D. A. Russell, Wyoming Territory. 17080. 
'86. (VI) 
Memuuanous Sacs of tumors taken from a large jack-rabbit, with granules from 
tlui same. 

Charles Ruby, U. S. Army, Fort D. A. Russell, Wyoming Territory. 17080. 
'86. (IV) 
Decomposed Rock, consisting of cbleritic slate and quartz. 

George W. Bell, Breutsville, Virginia. 1/081. '86. (xviii) • 

MoLLUSKS, an interesting collection from Madagascar. 

Edward Bartlett, Cbillingtou House, Maidstone, Kent, England. 1708'J, '86. 

(IX) 

Ore. 

H. C.MoRAN, Brightwood, District of Columbia. 17083. '86. (xviii) 
Fossil Coral, Zaphrentes sp., and two pieces of trilobite, Dalmaniles sp. 

Archibald LiVERSiDGE, Sydney, New South Wales. 17081. '86. (xvii) 

Fossil Plant, Gleichenia odontoptereides, from Riddington. 

Archibald Liversidge, Sydney, New South Wales. 17084. '86. (xiii, b) 
Copper, cobalt, copper pyrites, auriferous i)yrites, chrome iron ore, and titaniferous 
iron (27 specimens). 

Archibald Liversidge, Sydney, New South Wales. 17084. '86. (xviii) 

Minerals (64 specimens). 

Archibald Liversidge, Sydney, New South Wales. 17084. '86. (xvi) 

Manganese Ore, from Nova Scotia. 

John S. Lamson & Bro., Maiden Lane, New York City. 17085. '86. (xviii) 
Black Slate, containing veins of calcite and pyrite, for examination. 

C. S. White, Romney, West Virginia. 17086. '86. (xviii) 
Coke (7 specimens). 

H. Simon, Manchester, England. 17087. '86. (xvm) 
Brook-trout Eggs, for examination. 

John Gay, Commissioner of Fisheries Greensburgh, Pennsylvania. 17088- 
'86. (XXI) 
Minerals (3 specimens). 

John H. Hornung, Oasis, Utah. 17089. '86. (xvi) 
Squihkel, Sciuriis aureigaster, a Central American species. 

Zoological Society OF Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvani.i. (Through 
Arthur Edwin Brown, esq.) '86. 17090. (IV) 
Bird Skins (41 specimens), from Pernambuco, Brazil. 

Dr. P. L. Sclater, Zoological Society of London. 17091. '8(). (v, a) 
Shells (28 species), from the Bahamas. 

Charles W. Johnson, Saint Augustine, Florida. 17092. '86. (ix) 
Minerals, from French localities (44 specimens). (Exchange.) 

:^cole des Mines, Paris, France. 17093. '86. (xvi) 
Loom Weights (2), ancient Roman, from Hiute-Savoie, France. (Exchange.) 

M. L. Charpy, Muse6 Aunocy, Hdute-Savoie, France. 17094. '86. (ii, a) 



LIST OF ACCJvSSlOiNS. 755 

Ai;c:i i;i»i.i)(;k; \i, Oii.nocrs, one stone crtislinr (Ijiicrnstriu'.'-), rrum (Joiicisi;, L. Noiii'- 
cIkiIcI, (>i)(! cL-lt (Lacnistriue), iVmii Auve.riiT, ij. NoiitclKit(!l, Switzerland. 

M. L, CUAiti'V, Miiseo Auuecy, II;uiic-Savoio, Fiauce. (,Excha.uge.) ITO'.M. 'dG. 

(HI) 

Shells, fVoin Franco {M sj)ociiiK!iis). 

M. L. Chaki'Y, Miitsde Aiiuecy, Ilaule-Savoio, Franco. (Excliaiiyc.) 17()',)4- 
■a). (IX) 
IXVEHTKBUATE I'ossiLs, Jiuassic aud Lowor Cretaceous, about 70 species {WO si)0(-i- 
tneus), 

M. L. CiiAiU'V, Museo Aiiuocy, JIauto SaA'oio, Franco. (Exchange.) 1TUI)4. 
'dt). (XIII, B) 

Fossil Plants (2 specimens). 

M. L. Cii.vui'Y, Mns6e Annecy, Haute-Savoie, France. (Exchange.) 170D4. 
'rfO. (XIV) 
liOCKS (ir>4 specimens), from France, Italy, L?elgium, and Hungary. 

M. L. CiiAKi'Y, Musee Annecy, Haute-Savoio, France. (Excliangr.) 17(I'J4. 
'81). (XVII) 
MiNEKALs (b'4 specimens). 

M. L. CiiAiiPY, Musee Annecy, Haute-Savoie, France. (Exchange.) 17Ult4. 
'dO. (XVI) 

Fisii, 'J-spined Stickle-back, Gasterosleui^ pmnjitlus li. 

William Hekkick, Swan's Island, Maine. 170i.)5. '80. (vii) 
Common SxiciCLE-nACK, J^je/te? '/««drfflc«.'?, with lour dorsal spines instead of tlireo. 

ViNAL N. EowARDS, Wood's Holl, Massachusetts. 170%. '8tJ. (vii) 
KocKS, from New York. Massachusetts, aud Bermuda. 

Prof. William North Rice, Middletown, Connecticut. 170D7. '86. (xvii) 
15l\ck Macaque Monkey, Cynopithecus iiiger, in the flesh. 

Zoological Society of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (through 
Arthur Edwin Brown, Es(i.). 17098. '86. (iv) 
Pahuot, FaJccornis mipatria, in the flesh. 

Zoological Society of Piiiladklphia, Philadel})hia, Pennsylvania (through 
Arthur Edwin Brown, Es(i.). 17098. '86. (v, a) 
Blue J5ihd, Sialld niaiix, the blue color being of the same sliade as in ^. art Ilea. 

Allan H. .Je.vnings, Baltimore, Maryland. 1709!). '8(i. (v,a) 
Red-winged Blackbikd, A<jelaiu>i phwiiiceHs, in the flesh. 

Squike Myeks, Baltimore, Maryland. 17100. '86. (v, a) 
COATiMUNDi, Nasua narica. 

Squire Myers, Baltimore Family Museum, Baltimore, Maryland. 17100. 'Hij. 

(IV) 

COTTON-TAIL Raijiut, Lepus sylcaticun. 

Howard Eaton, Medora, Dakota Territory. 17101. '80. (iv) 
American Goldfinch, HpinnH irislis, in the flesh. 

BURDETT IIassett, Howard Center, Iowa. 17I0i. '86. (v,a) 
Mica Scimst, for nqjort. 

J. A. CoNiKdi;, Virginia City, Nevada. 1710:'>. '8I>. (xvi) 
Red-tailed Hawk, Iliileo horealis. 

John K. Walker, Parkersbnrgh, Illinois. 17101. '!H\. (v, a) 
SiLlciFiED Shells, probably from a tertiary d(rj)osil ; from Tampa Bay, Florida. 

James Shepakd, New Britain, Connecticut. 17105. ^SiS. (ix) 



756 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Neimikitk. Stni'ii specimens. (Excbaii.ij;e.) 

(jAN'n<:Ki5UUY Museum, Christ Church, New Zeiihiiul. ITIOG. 'SSG. (xvi) 

Fkkuuginous Limestone, for report. 

KiciiAKU Bennett, Eureka Springs, Arkansas. 17107. '80. (xvin) 

Minerals. 

Charles Halbacu, Hot iSpriugs, Arkansas. 17108. '86. (xvi) 
Altered Magnetic Ikon and impure sulphate of iron ; for report. 

D. C. Guernsey, Dayton, Washington Territory. 17109. '86. (xvi) 

Bird-Skins, three species of Junco (7 specimens). 

Dr. R. W. SiiUEELDT, U. S. A, Fort Wiiigate, New Mexico. 17110. '86. (v, a) 

Ethnological Objects, brooms, blankets, baskets, carrying nets, etc., from Mex- 
ico. 
Dr. Edward Palmer, U. S. National Museum. 17111. '86. (ii, a) 

Foods, from Mexico. 

Dr. Edward Palmer, U. S. National Museum. 17111. ^tHJ. (i) 

Fibers, from Mexico. 

Dr. Edward Palmer, U. S. National Museum. 17111. 'Hd. (i) 

Dye-stuffs, from Mexico. 

Dr. Edward Palmer, U. S. National Museum. 17111. '86'J. (i) 

Silver Ore, from Mexico. 

Dr. Edward Palmer, U. S. National Museum. 17111. '86. (xvm) 

Plants, from Mexico. 

Dr. Edward Palmer, U. S. National Museum. 17111. '86. (xv) 

Pottery, from Mexico. 

Dr. Edward Palmer, U. S. National Museum. 17111. '86. (ii, b) 

Fish-trap, from Mexico. 

Dr. Edward Palmer, U. S. National Museum. 17111. '86. (i) 
Materia Medica. Avery interesting collection of Indian medicines from Mexico. 

Dr. Edward Palmer, U. S. National Museum. 17111. '86. (i) 
Birds' Eggs. Abert's Towhee, Pilo aberti, and Rufous-veuted Thrasher, Harpo- 
rhyvchus crissalis ; for examination. 

Roswell S. Wheelkr, Jr., Pima Indiau Agency, Arizona. 17112. '86. (v, u) 

Railroad Spikes (32). 

Pennsy'lvania Railroad Company, Camden, New Jersey. (Through J. E. 
Watkins.) 17113. '86. (i) 
Shell, Vnio gibiosus, from the Neosho River, Kansas, for examination. 

Dr. W. S. Newlon, Oswego, Kansas. 17114. '86. (ix) 
Optical Densimeter, No. 4, and one case of saliuometers. 

U. S. Coast Survey-, Washington, District of Columbia. 171ir). '86. (i) 
Iron Pyrites in schistose rock, for examination. 

J. M. Lineberger, Lowell, North Carolina. 17116. '86. (xviii) 
Mixture of magnetite, oxide of iron, and quartz, for examination. 

M. L. Maynard, Dayton, Washington Territory. 17117. '86. (xviii) 
Brook Trout, SalveUnus fontinalis, Rock eel, Murcenoidea gunnellus, with skin para- 
sites. Also a part of lower caudal lobe of a shark (?) or some other selachian (f ). 

ViNAL N. Edwards, Wood's HoU, Massachusetts. 17118. '86. (vii) 

Fish Parasites and copepods.* 

ViNAL N. Edwards, Wood's HoU, Massachusetts. 17118. '86. (xi) 

Iron Pyrites in black quartz, for examination. 

WlLLiAfti F. McCain, Lincoln, A.laban»a. 17111). '86. (xviil) 



LIST OF ACCKSSIONS. 757 

Hkown-hkadki) Nuthatch, Sitta [jusiUa, ^Ait. (skin), (or oxaiiiiiiiition. 

G. NoBLK, Savjinniili, Georgia. 171*20. '8(1. (v,a) 
Indian Saddlk. 

CiiAKLKS KiBY, U. 8. A., Fort D. A. Ivu.sseli, Wyoming Territory. 17121. '8G. 

(II, A) 

PYROPiiYhLiTE, from Glon's Mills, Doop River, North Carolina. 

U. S. Geological Sitkvey, Wasiiington, District of Colnmhia. (Tlirongli I. 
C. Kiissel!.) 1712-2. '86. (xvi) 
Eland, Oreas cainia, specimen in the Hesli, from Africa. 

Lewis Sells, Columbus, Ohio. 1712:?. '86. (iv) 

Bird-Skins, I'asserella ilinca unalascensis (4 specimens} and Melospiza fasciaUi samuelis 
(0 specimens), skins, from Alameda Conuty, California. 

W. Otto Emekson, Haywards, California. 17124. '86. {v,a) 

Bird Skins, Spiniis psallria, Calcariiis ornatim, Amphispiza hiUnenla, Melospiza Ihi- 
colni, M. montana, Poocattes confinis, Otocorh arcnicola, Sayoi'nw fuscan, and S. sai/L 
William Lloyd, Toyah, Texas. 17125. '86. (v, a) 

Bird Skeletons, Picus gairdneri, Carpodacus cassini, Pica hiidsntiica, Picus harrisi, 
Melospiza monlaua, Junco oj-ef/oniis, and J. atmictens. 
A. W. Anthony, Denver, Colorado. 17126. '86. (xii) 

Egg of the Black-billed Magpie, Pica rustica hudaonica. 

A. W. Anthony, Denver, Colorado. 17126. '86. (V, is) 

Lignite, or brown coal, for report. 

S. D. Longheed, New Dungeuess, Clallam County, Washington Territory. 
17127. '86. (XVIII)' 

Microscopic Slide, showing a scale of a common herring, Chipea sp. 
Rev. J. L. Zabriskie, Nyack, New York. 17128 '86. (vii) 

Galena, and im})ure hematite. 

D. S. LOY, Mechanicstown, Maryland. 17129. '86. (xviii) 

Pyrites. 

Henry C. Moyer, Ililltown, Pennsylvania. 17i:W. '86. (xviii) 

European White Pelican, Pelecanun oncocrotalnsJAnw. (skt^leton). 

Central Park Menagerie (through W. A. Conklin, Esq., New York City, New 
York). 17131. '86. (xii) 

Invertebrate Fossils, Lower Cambrian. 

Duplicates from the collections of original investigations of the St. J«)hn group. 
Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. (Through II. S. Williams.) 17i:>2. 
'86. (xiii. A) 

Hercules Beetle, Dynastes tityus. 

J. W. Wakeman, Waterlick, Warren County, Virginia. 17i;J:{. '8V>. (.x) 

Reptiles, Cohiher ohmletttx, ]\\\ ., OphcoHanrim rimtralis, fJumeces np., SceloporuxHp., and 
liana sp. (10 specimens). 
G. H. Ragsdale, Gainesville, Cook County, Texas. 17134. 'Sd. (vi) 

Bird-Skins, Parun carolinensis, Chondesies utrigatus, Otocoris arenicola, I'oocawtes gra- 
mineiis, Iclinia mississippieniiis, lUUeo harlani, and Syrnium alleni (the (irst speci- 
men of this form taken outside of Florida, 11 specimens). 
G. n. Ragsdale, Gain(!svil!(!, Cook County, Texas. 17134. '86. (v, a) 

Cast of a double-bladed ceremonial axe of coarse-grained syenite, found at Hudson 
City, Hudson County, New Jersey, 7 feet below the surface. 
Dr. J. B. Holder, Am. Mus. of Nat. History, New York. 17135. '86. (in) 



758 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1880. 

Cabinet Photograph of Bolivar statao iu New York, and tlie followinoj coins; 

Ten centavos of Peru (no date); 1 ceutavo of Argentine Republic, 1884 ; 2 centavoa 

of Argentine Republic, 1884 ; 100 reis of Brazil, 1883 ; 20 reis of Brazil, 1869 ; 40 

reis of Brazil, 1875 ; 40 reis of Brazil (date illegible) ; 1 centavo of Mexico, 1878 ; 

1 centavo of Mexico (in halves) ; half dos-centavos of Mexico ; 2 centimes of 

France, 1877; 5 centimes of France, 1882; half cent of the United States, 1854; 

1 cent of Nova Scotia, 1801. 

Nathan Appleton, Boston, Massachusetts. 171:56. '86. (i) 
Coins, from Italy, Grand Duchy of Luxemburg, Great Britain, France, and the Turkish 
Empire (11 specimens). Deposited. 

Frank A. ReVnolds, U. S. National Museum. 17137. '86. (i) . 

Natural Coke, from Midlothian, Virginia. 

U. S. Geological Survey. (Through 1. C. Russell.) 17138. '8C>. (xviii) 
Insects (over 1,000 species and several thousand specimens of Coleoptera, Lepidoi>- 
tera and Hemiptera). 

Prof. Ferrari-Perez, Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, Puobla, 
Mexico, 17139. '86. (x) 
Trout, Salrelinus namaycush, from Wythevillo, Virginia. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington. District of Columbia. 17140. '86. (vii) 
Shark, Imurus dekai/i, about seven feet long. 

Silas Stearns, Pensacola, Florida. 17141. '86. (vii) 
AouDAD, Ovis trafjelaphns, in the flesh, from Africa. 

Fletcher M. Noe, Indianapolis, Indiana. 17142. '86. (iv) 
Invertebrate Fossil, Bacvlites ovaius, from Black Hills, Dakota; for examination. 

J. H. Locke, North Charlestown, New Hampshire, 17143. 'Sti, (xii, B) 
Insects, 29 species of Lepidoptera; for examination. 

Howard L. Clark, Providence, Rhode Island. 17144. '86. (x) 

Minerals (21 specimens). 

W. C. JiRDONSTON, Ashe County, North Carolina, 17145, '86. (xvi) 
Carboniferous Fossil, Allorisma suhcuneata (a rotted specimen). 

W. C, JiRDONSTON, Ashe County, North Carolina, 17145. '86. (xi, a) 

Stone Pipe. 

W. C. JiRDONSTON, Ashe County, North Carolina. 17145. '86. (iii) 

Marine Shells (25 specimens), from Alaska; also Helix Jidelis Gray, from Humboldt 
Bay, California. 

C, H.TOWNSEKD, U.S. Fish Commission. 17146. '6i^. (ix) 

Mammal skins and skulls, R(tn(jiftr tarandus, Tamias town.^endi, and Enmctopias sfel- 
leri, from California. 

C, H,Tow^NSEND, U. S. Fish Commission. 17146. '86. (iv) 

Fishes, Limanda aspera, Pleuroiiectes nieUatxs, Fodoihecus acipenscr, Tilesia vavaga, 
Gfimnacanthiis (jaleatus, Coitus humills, Esox luclus, Tliymallim .sk/nifer, Coregomis 
quadrUaieralis, C. rtierlcii var, C. Icevuicotfi, C. Nelsoni, StenodiiH mackemii, Salve- 
lirnix namaycKsh, S. malma, Oneorhynchiis gorhuscha, Calostomiis longlroslris, from 
Alaska. 

C.H. TOM^NSEND, U.S. Fish Commission. 17146. '86. (vii) 
Atlantic Walrus, Odolxsnufi rosmarus (portion of the skull and tibia), and also the 
fourth and fifth right metacarpals and fourth proximal phalanx, with a portion 
of mandible, of Polar boar, Thalardos 7naritimiis. 

Lieut.A.W.GuEELY, U.S. Army, Chief Signal Officer. 17147. '86. (xiv) 

Calcite and gypsum, from California. 

John Lang, Lang, Los Angeles County, California. 17148. '86. (xvi) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 7')^ 

Ijonsrwx IIkkov, Ardea tricolor niJlcoJ I is. (Hxchaiinc) 

I),'. I!. II. \Vai;ui':n', West Chester, P.!unsylv;iiii;i. 171!:). 'rfl!. (v,a) 
Skl'I.i, and liOXKS of Putorins erersnianiii, from Lower Volga ; a "street dog" tVoisi 
.Jaltii; skeleton of German Uachsliund, api)arei>tly tlioronghbre'l. from Berlin. 
(Excliauge.) 

Prof. Dr. A. Neiikino, ISerliii, Germany. 17150. '8i;. (iv) 
MiXKUALS. (115 specimens.) 

Prof. H. Caumiciiakl, Brmiswick, Maine. 171.51. '.-(i. (xvi) 
SoDAi.iiK in el.eolite-syenite, from Litchtield, Maine. 

H. K. MoURELL, Gardiner, Maine. 1715*3. '8l'>. (xvi) 
Invertebrate Fossils. (Exchange.) 

George F. Matthews, St. John, N(i\v Brunswick. 171.5:!. 'rtil. (xiii, a) 
Minerals. (Exchange.) 

James Matters, Saint looter's, Chester County, Pcmnsyi vania. 17151. 'HO. 
(XVI) 
Microscopic slide, showing a scale of a white percii, nocmn amcr'KutiuiK Gin. 

IvBv. J. L. Zauriskie, Nyack, New York. 171.55. 'Si;. (\xi) 
Bat, Alalupha c'mcrca. 

G. Noble, Savannah, Georgia. 1715(;. • 'Si;, (iv) 
Indian Arrow-points, made of obsidian. 

A. F. Davidson, Croston, Marion Conuty, Oregon. 171.57. '8(1. (iii) 
Lead axd Silver Ore. 

GuY.MARD Silver Lead Company, Gnymard, Orange Cmiiity, N<nv Jersey. 
17158. '8tJ. (xviu) 
MiNER-VLS, with washed gravel, from the diamond fields of Africa. 

Georcje D. Stoxestreet, Birmingliam, Alabama. 171.5;). 'Sm. (xvi) 
Bird-skins (24), inchnling a line serii^s of Lfiicontlcfv am-tlralis and L. tvphrocolly:. 

Denis Gale, Gold Hill, Colorado. 17160. '8(). (v, a) 
Insect, I\rla, »p. 

Denis Gale, Gold Hill, Colorado. 171(50. '8i;. (x) 

BiP.Ds'-NESTS AND EGGS. 

Denis Gale, Gold Hill, Colorado. 171(50. '8(5. (v.n) 
Historical Relics: One indentnre of IT. R. Schoolcraft and Fnincis Piciinette. 
Marcii IS, 1S.5;', ; a[)pi)intm(^nt of H. R. Schoolcraft as capt.ain in the Michigan 
inilita by Liswis Cass, (Jox^crnor of Michigan, dated June :{(), 18:!:5 ; fashion 
plate, spring ami snmiii<n- 1851, pnblished by F. Mahan, with portraits of Henry 
Clay, M. Fillmore, J. C. (Jalliouii, M. A. Root, Jenny Lind, and P. T. Barnnm. 
(Deposited.) 

William .L KilEES, Smithsonian Institntion. 171(51. 'SO. (i) 
Hog Deer, Cfrvim porcinua, in the flesh. 

Central Park Menagerie (throngli \V. A. Conkliii, Esq., New York City). 
171(52. '(JS. (IV) 

Historical Relics : Fac-simiiie of (iem^ral Wasliington's aci^onnt of expenses dur- 
ing the Revolntionary VVar ; also fac-similie of a commnnieation to G»!ueral 
Forbes proposing a ]dan of battle for the expedition against Fort Dnipiesno (now 
Pittsbnrgh), in 17.58. (Deposited.) 

Wm. J. Green, U. S. National Mnsimm. 171(5:5. '8(;. (1) 
Sand Shark, Carcliarlas liUoralh, Mitch., from Fortress Monroe, Virginia. 

D. VV. Grinder, Washington, District of Columbia. 171(54. '8(;. (vii) 
Jamaica Irishes, ".55 species (82 specimens). 

Public Museu.m of Jamaica, Institute of Jamaica, Kingston, Jamaica. 17105. 
'86. (XII) 



760 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1880. 

Cerite, from 13;i8Uuis, near Riddaihyttaii, WotJtmaunland, Sweden. 

U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia (tlirongli F. W 
Clarke). 17166. '86. (xvi) 
Commission of Isaac Chauncey as lientenant in U. S. Navy, signed by John Adams, 
President of the United States, June 11, 1799, parchment. (Deposited.) 
Wm. J. Green, U. S. National Museum. 17167. '86. (i) 
Meteorite (2 fragments), from Jenny's Creek. 

G. M. Crabtree, Lick Ridge, Wayne County, Wo»)t Virginia. 17168. 'SO. 

(XVI) 

Glaciated Rock Surface. 

U.S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia. 17169. '86. 

(XVII) 

Shells. 

W. O. Emerson, Hay wards, California. 17170. '86. (ix) 
Harpy Eagle, Thraswtus harpyia, in the flesh. 

W. A. CoNKLiN, New York City. 17171. '86. (v. a) 
Fibrous Calcite, from the Tombigbee River, Alabama. 

U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia. 17172. '86. 

(XVI) 
FisHEK. Hmiirhombus cethaVum (type), Citarichthys spUoptents and Aphorisila plafjiusn, 
from Havana, Cuba. Also Cliatodon aya, from Peusacola, Florida. 
Prof. D. S. Jordan, Bloomingtou, Indiana. 17173. '86. (vii) 
Carrying Basket, from Cozumel Island, and a water vessel from old Providence 
Island. 
James E. Benedict, U. S. Fish Commission. 17174. '86. (ii, a) 
Musket Ball, furnished to the Savannah Fencibles during the war of 1812, J»y Cap- 
tain James Hunter. 
C. J. Wade, Washington, District of Columbia. 17175. '86. (i) 
Diptera, Homiptera, and Hymeuoptera, from Jamaica, and Pennsylvania. 

F. W. Klages, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 17176. '86. (x) 
Yellow-fin Grouper, Epinepheliis flavolimhatus Poey.* 

Silas Stearns, Pensacola, Florida. 17177. '86. (vii) 
Fragment of the mosaic pavement at Tiberius Place, Palentine Hill, Rome. 
George H, BOEHMER, Smithsonian Institution. 17178. '86. (i) 

"Agouti," Desyprocta islhmica, in the flesh, from Central America. 

Admiral J. E. Jouett, U. S. N. (Through C. W. Beckham, U. S. N. ) 17179. '86. 

(IV) 

Military Pass issued to Wm. Cooper, August, 1861, to pass over tlie bridges .and 
within the lines of the Army of the Potomac, General Manslield, commanding. 
(Deposited.) 
Wm. B. Cooper, U. S. National Museum. 17180. '80. (i) 
Military Commissions issued to Isaac Chauncey. Also commissions to Wolcot 
Chauncey. (Deposited.) 
Mrs. Edwin Green, Washington, District of Columbia. 1718L 'SC. (i) 
Chia-stolite, from Rochester, New Hampshire. 

John I. Legro, New Britain, Connecticut. 17182. '86. (xvi) 

Rock, oxliibiting markings probably caused by glacial action. 
A. L. Brace, Amazonia, Missouri. 17183. '86. (xvii) 

Bird Skins (17 specimens), from Texas. (Exchange.) 

T. McIlwrai rri, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. 17184. '80. (v, a) 

North European Nut-iiatch. Sitta europcea, from Norway. 

Dr. L. Stejnegkr, U. S. National Museum. 17185. '86. (v, a) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 761 

Loggerhead Shrike, Lanhis Iniioviciatna. 

Jesse J. Turner, Mount Carmol, Illinois. I71SI!. ')^{'t. {v,a) 
KocKS, from Genuiiny, France, Italy, Switzerland, New York, Minnesota, and Mary- 
land. (Exchange.) 
Dr. G. H. WiLLi.\MS, Baltimore, Maryland. 17187. '&>. (xvii) 
Spinxing-wheel and distaff", from Wnrtombcrg, Germany. 

Mrs. L.S. Weaver, Smithsonian Institution. 1718-i. '80. (i,R) 
Crystalt.izicd Calcite, from Matanzas, Cuba. (Exchange.) 

Ward and Howell, Rochester, New York. 17189. '86. (xvii) 
Marble, twelve cubes, six thin slabs, and one small column, from Tate, Pickens 
County, Georgia. 

■ Georgia Marble Company, Atlanta, Georgia. ITl'.tO. '86. (xvii) 
Photograph of three large flint implements. 

Edward D. Hicks, Nashville, Tennessee. 17191, '86. (iii) 
Rocks, from Kentucky and California. 

U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia. (Through J. 
S. Diller.) 17192. '80. (xvii) 
Brass Modp:l of a screw propeller, designed by and made under the direction of 
Isaac Dripps, at Bordentowu, N. J., in 1840, for the iron steam tug New Jersey, 
which was built in England by Capt. John Ericsson, and came to America under 
sail schooner-rigged in 1839, commanded byCaptain Crane, and was the first iron 
boat to cross the Atlantic. Also a photograi^li showing original propelling and 
steering devices. 
Isaac Dripps, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 1719.3. '86. (i) 
Barb of Sting Ray, Tnjgon diptenirus, taken from a specimen in San Diego Bay, Cal- 
ifornia. 
W. TiSACY EusTis, Boston, Mass.achusetts. 17194. '84. (vii) 
Toilet Box made of wood, decorated with minerals principally from Colorado, 

Mrs. G. Brown Goode, Washington, District of Columbia. 1719."). '86. 

(XVI) 

Albino Deer-skin. 

R. MacFap.lane, Fort Chippewyan, Hudson Bay Territory. 1719G. '86. (i) 
Varanus, Varan Its bengalensis, from northern India. 

Zoological Society of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (Through 
Arthur Edwin Brown, Esq. ) 17197. 'S6. (xii) 
OpiUiM Smoking Outfit, including pipes and other apparatus used by the Chinese. 
(Deposited.) 

Police Department op New York City (Through Hon. Fitz John Porter ) 
17198. 'S(i. (II, A) 
Materia Medica (27 specimens). 

Frederick Stearns &, Co., Detroit, Michigan. 17199. '86. (i) 
Plants. A very valuable collection of Mexican plants, containing over 400 species, 
many of which are new to the Museum collection. 

C. G. Pringle, Charlotte, Vermont. 17200. '86. (xv) 
Bird Nests and Eggs {^ species, 641 specimens). (Exchange.) 

Capt. B. F. (Joss, Pewaukee, Wisconsin. (Through Capt. Charles E. Bon- 
dire.) 17201. '86. (V, 1!) 
American Egret, .trclea vijretta, Gmel.(skin), from near Fort Klamatli, Oregon. 

Collected by Dr. Samuel Q. lioiMNSoN, IT. S. Army. 17^:02. 'Hi). (v,a) 
MOLLUSKS, Biithinclla slcnollii/ro'ulcn, Doliru, (Vom Ceylon. 

W. G. Mazyck, Charleston, South Carolina. (Through W. 11. Dall.) 17203. 
'86. (IX) 



7^2 Ri:i'ORT ON NATIONAL MUSliUM, 188G. 

" Va]i.ti;.\," t-lio (linmoml clnb; IVoni Japan. 

Dr. 1). BiiTiiUNE McCahtiok, W;i;sliingtoii, District of Colmiibiix. 17204. '86. 

(II, A) 

Chimney SwiF IS, Cliwtdra pclaf/ica (2 specimens). 

U. S. Fish Commission, Wood's Holl, Massaohnsetts. 1720.5. '86. (v, a) 
Invertkbuatk Cri<:tack.ous Fossils, from Sononi and Pnohla, Mexico. 

SeriorAGUiLKRO, Mexican Geographical Exploring Commission, Mexico. 17206. 
'86. (xiii, B) 
Materia Medica, and chemical preparations. 

Dr. Theo. Sciiucharpt, Goerlitz, Germany. 17207. '86. (i) 
Calciie, and calcite crystals with bitnminons coal. 

R. Ellsworth Call, Moline, Illinois. 17208. '86. (xvi) • 

Land and Fresh- water Mollusks, from Manitoba. 

Robert Miller Christy, Chignal, St. James, England. 17200. '86. (ix) 
Trout, Salmo h-idens (!} specimens). 

\Vm. Montgomery, Verona, Missouri (through U. S. Fish Commission). 17210. 
'86. (vn) 

Creast-pin, made of banded and moss agate, mounted with blood stones in silver. 
Messrs. Harris AND Schafer, Washington, District of Colnmbia. 17211. '86. 

(XVI) 

F^GCiS of Archihuteo ferrngineiis, from northern Dakota. 

Capt. B. F. Goss, Pewankee, Wisconsin. 17212. '86. (v, b) 
Larva of grasshopper, Hippiftcns discoidens, or H. pluvnlcoplcnis. 

G. D. Belt, Missoula, Montana. 17213. '86. (x) 
Mannikin of an Arab; prepared in Paris under the supervision of the dinsctor of the 
Trocaddro Musee. 

Jules Hebeut, 9 rue Henri Martin, Paris, France. 17214. 'S(^. (ii, a) 
Opium-smoking Outfit, including pipes and other apparatus used by the Chinese. 
This outtit has been in use and was confiscated by thi; poiiiu', in San Francisco. 

P.. Crowley, Chief of police, San Francisco, California. 17215. "86. (n, A) 
Picture of a sniiset cloud, viewed from Taylor's Hill, Columbia, South Carolina. 

G. T. Berg, Colnmbia, South Carolina. 17216. 'S^. (xvii) 

Shell, Unio anodoiitoides. - 

Dr. W. S. Newlon, Oswego, Kansas. 17217. '86. (i) 
Cotton, raised by slave la')or on the estate of the late J. Harvey Williamson, in Bc- 
tliesda Township, South Carolina, in 1862. This cotton was packed before iron 
ties came into use, and when no roping was to be had. Hickory withes were used, 
and these are still in a state of good preservation. This is ^.robably the oldest 
cotton in the world, and is certainly the only sample extant which was raised in 
the manner peculiar to the hard times of the late war. 

W. L. RODDEY AND Co., Rock Hill, South Carolina. 17218. '86. (i) 
Mkteoric Iron (37 grammes), from Gloriota Mountain, New Mexico. (Exchange.) 

George F. Kunz, New York City. 172K). '86. (xvi) 
Wall Accretion. 

Colorado Smelting Company, South Pueblo, Colorado. (Through O. H. 
Hahu.) 17220. '86. (xviii) 
Diurnal Lepidoptera, a collection comprising many of the rarer American and 
European Coh^optera. 

John B. Smith, U.S. National Museum. 17221. '86. (x) 
Reptiles from Fort Custer, Montana. 

Capt. Charles E. Bendiuk, U. S. A., U. S. National Museum. 17222. '86. (vi) 



LIST OF ACCE8S[()N8. 7G3 

Fishes, Lota maculo.stt, JItjod(»i aJosoUlrx, Uranidca seitiiKcitlira, Xotunn; cjiliN,:\\\({ [Ji/- 

hoijiiathiiH placitus ; from Fort Ouster, Mont-uu!!. 

Oapt. Chaklks E. Bkxdike, U. S. A., U. S. National Museum. 17-2.22. 'm. (vii) 

Bird-skins, ()7 .species ('.).'> specimens), from various localities, mostly from Australia. 

(Excban;;e.) 

Edwaud BAiixr.KTr, Oiiilliiiiitou Hou.se, Maidstone, Kent, En_i;lan(l. 17;22;5. 

'Sii. (V,A) 

Iron Mkteouitr Oiiippi.xg, froin Seril);i. New York ; iron nieteoritis from Brann.nu, 
Bohemia ; stone meteorite frai^iiKint, from L'Aigle, IVance. (Exchange.) 

S. 0. H. Bailkv, Oortland-on-lluilson, New York. 17224. '8(1. (xi) 
Peufoi:ati:i) Antique Garnets (10), found in a Bohemian grave. 

GeokCtK F. KUNZ, Hobokeu,New Jer.soy. 1722.">. '86. (xvi) 
Cati.initk (:5 H!)eciinens) and quartz (1 specimen) froni Minnesota. 

N. II. WixciiELL, Minneapolis, Minnesota. 1722(). '80. (xvii) 
Coins, bronze, brass, and eo[)per, of Great Britain and the United States. Also .a 
decorated eartlienware platter made at (Joburn, England. 

T. W. Sweeny, U.S. National Museum. 17227. '8:!. (i) 
WAsiiixin'o.v and Independence Token of 178;; (2 impressitnis). 

S. A. \V.\LKEn, New York City. 17228. '80. (i) 
BnoNZK Coins: One pfennig, of Germany, 1875, and two stotiuki of Bulgaria. 

W. C. Goi.DiN, Washington, District of Colundjia. 1722D. '8G. (i) 
Devonian Fossils. 

C. L. Webster, Iowa City, Iowa. 172:30. '8(). (xiii a) 

C'o.MMox WiiiTEFisii, CorcyoiiiiH clnpelfunnis, and mougnd wiiitelisb, ('. Iiillihee. 

Fi;ank N. Clark, Nortbville, Micliigau. 172:'.l. ^HG. (xii) 
Preiiensiij; TAILED MoNKEY, Cehufi Itypolcucii^. 

Barton and Logan Dime Museum, Washington, District of Coiiind)ia. 172:12. 
•80. (IV) 
Bird-eggs, i) species (105 specimens). 

Ca])t. B. F. Goss, Fewaukee, Wisconsin. 172:?3. '86. (v, b) 
Sea-Waifs, seeds and fruits, wasbcfl ashore at the Falisadoes i)lantations, Jamaica. 
No. 1. Spondias; unknown in .Jamaica. No. 2. Unknown at Kew ; probably a palm. 
No. :i. Astrocaryani; unknown m Janjaica. No. 5. CalophijUum ealaha ; native 
timber free. No. 6. Mncuna vrens ; common to the i.slands. No. 8. Cwi^aljnnia 
Bondiioella ; a common sea-shore plant. No. I). C. Jloiiduc ; a common sea-sboro 
plant. No. 10. Cuuavalia ohiitsifoUa ; conmion near the sea. No. 11. Ipomca pes- 
capro! ; common near the sea. 'So. 12. Fcastophyllinn ; unknown in Jamaica. No. 
K). Kntadn scandeiift ; a river-side ]dant common from sea-level to 2,000 feet; vines 
sometimes (i(tO feet long. No. 15. EcastophnUum Brownei; Jamaica sea-coast. No, 
16. Manicaria saccifera ; (" sea cocoanut ") ; seeds of a palm ; native of the main- 
land and Trinidad, not native of Jamaica. Tbc fact of seeds being wasbed asbore 
liei-«>, was noticed by Sloane. No. 18. Omphalea diandra ; mainland? 

Determinations by J. R. Jackson, Esq., Eoyal Gardens, Kew, England. 

D. Morris, Director Public Gardens and Plantation, Jamaica. 172:'>4. '86. 
(XVII) 

Albino House Mouse, Muh muncidus, from Conc(U'dia Farish, Louisiana. 

W. C. Percy, Jr., Black Hawk, Louisiana. 172:)5. ^6C). (iv) 
Hair Worms, GordUtu, s])., for examination. 

Dr. .1. B. Smith, Little Rock, Arkansas. 172:5(i. '!<[]. (xi) 
Samples ok Earth, black ,saud, and gold dust. 

Allen D. Wolcott, Randolph, Coos County, Oregon. 172:57. '86. (xviii) 



7fi4 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Photograph of bauded byporstheue aiKlosito, from Coiiwakitou Canon, California. 
U. S. Geological Sukvey, WaHhington, District of Colnmbia. (Through J. 
S. Diller.) 17238. '86. (xvii) 

Fossils, type specimens, described by Prof. J. M. Clarke, iu Bulletin No. 16, from the 
Devonian system in New York State. Aiilopo7-a annectens. Clarke (1); Lingiila 
triqueta, Clarke (1); Chonetes lepida, Hall (1); Spirifer lialphef/or, Clarke (1); 
Spirifer Pluto, Clarke (Ki); Leiorhi/vchus Hecate, Clarke (i:») ; Modiomorplia Chemos, 
Clarke (1) ; Loxonema Noc, Clarke (1) ; I'lati/o-stomu mliiiitis.siinn, Clarke (6) ; Bel- 
lerophon incisus, Clarke (1); Ortlioccras aciculoides, Clarke (I); MacrocheiluH 
Moloch, Clarke (1); Falceotroclius proscursor, Clarke (1): Orthoceras Amiiodeus, 
Clarke (1) ; U. filosum, Clarke (2) ; U. Ontario, Clarke (2) ; O. Mephisto, Clarke (1) ; 
Goniatites Lutheri, Clarke (1) ; G. nodifer, Clarke (2) ; HyoJithes Neapolls, Clarke 
(2); Ceratiocaris BeccheH,C\av^*i {I); Eichinocaris ^F/ii(/ieWJ, Clarke (2); Beyrichia 
Dagon, Clarke (1). 
U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia. 17238. '86. 

(XIII) 

Ethnological Objects collected among the Hoopa Natauo and Klamath Kenuck 
Bands iu northwest California. 

No. 1. Stone war-knife, found in grave; obsolete. 

Nos. 2-9. Stone knives ; obsolete. 

No. 10. Stone knife, complete. Found in grave. 

Nos. 11-13. Horn chisels; apiece of elk antler ground to an edge; obsolete. 
Formerly used to hollow out canoes and other wood-work. 

Nos. 11-17. Stone hammers ; still in use by the old men, but none of them are 
able to make one. 

No. 18. Hat of elk-skin, tanned and painted. Worn by young men at a dance 
which is given when they attain the age at which they are admitted to the coun- 
cils of the bands (about twenty years). 

No. 19. Hat or head dress, Indian money. A broad band of buck-skin em- 
broidered with pieces of skin from the head of the woodpecker, and worn by 
men at festal dances. It is used as a medium of exchange, and in traffic is valued 
at about $30. 

No. 20. Pillow; a wooden block used for a pillow; still frcciuently seen in use 
by the old people. 

Nos. 21-22. Comb or head scraper; made of elk-bone or wood. Used to scr.ape 
vermin or dirt from the hair. 

No. 23. Louse-crusher. A jdece of bone from the leg of a deer used to crush 
vermin in the hair by i)lacing it under the hair and pressing it with the bone 
comb or scraper (No. 21). 

No. 24. Fire-drill; still in use among the old people. The diill is revolved be- 
tween the palms of the hands. 

No. 2.'). Pipe and case ; in common use among the men. 

Nos. 26-27. Stone pipes taken from graves; obsolete; very old. 

No. 28. Pipe made of wood and stone; iu common use. 

No. 29. Money-box; made from a piece of deer antler. Used as a receptacle for 
Dentalium shells (Indian curreucy). 

No. 30. A small basket used to winnow the chaft' from the grain and grass seed 
by tossing it in the air. 

Nos. 31-32. Hoppers; small, willow baskets with an aperture at the bottom, 
used in grinding acorns in connection with a smooth. Hat stone 12 by 18 inches 
in diameter, which is placed in a large, shallow basket to catch the meal. A mill 
consists of one hopper, one pestle, one large, shallow basket, and a Hat, smooth 
stone. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 765 

Ethnological OiijKcrs, etc. — Cimtiniicil. 

NoH. 33-:{4. A willow basket, oi»eu work and sbiillow. Used to serve boiled sal- 
uiou at feasts; still iu couiuioa use. 

No. 35. Hamper of open willow work ; nsed by the women in carrying loads. It 
is supported by a baud across the forehead. 

No. 37, A large, shallow basket; used under the grinding-stone to catch the 
uieal. (See Nos. 31-32. ) 

Nos. 41-4G. Bows, arrows, and ([uivers, of the patterns now commonly in use. 
The bow and arrow is now used only iu taking small game. 

No. 47. A baton of basket work, carried by meu in the right hand while danc- 
ing. 

Nos. 48-49. Paint mills; obsolete; very old. 

Nos. 50-52. Stone frying-pans; in common uso. 

No. 53. Wooden stool; in common use. 

No. 54. Tobacco-pouch of basket-work. 

No. 55. Otter-skin and shell ornaments. Worn by womeu iu the hair when 
dancing. 

No. ,%. Woman's necklace. 

No. .57. Ivattle used in dancing; made of deer hoofs. 

No. 58. Necklace of largo pine nuts; worn by womeu. 

No. 5'J. Necklace of suuiU ]iine nuts; worn by women. 

No. 60. Hair brush; made of elk hair and leather. 

No. (31-03. Dauce dresses, worn by womeu at dances and occasions of ceremony. 

No. (54. Man's deer-skin cloak. 

No. 65. Dip-net used in taking eels and young salmon. Made of grass-tiber 
twine. (See 78-80.) 

No. 66. Stone spoon ; obsolete. 

No. 67-70. Stone baking dishes, in common use by tho old people for baking 
a kind of pone made of acorn meal. 

No. 71. Salmon spear-heads, used with a pole and line. The head detaches 
from the i)ole when tho fish is struck, aud it is retrieved with the line. 

No. 72. Shell necklace ; worn by women. 

No. 73-74. Aprons for womeu; worn at dances; made of grasses braided over 
buckskin. 

No. 75-76. Spoons in common use. 

No. 77. Horn money-box with money {Dcntalium shells). 

No. 78. Seine twine of grass hber. (See No. »0. ) 

No. 7'J. Grass fiber. Each blade of grass (No. 80) produces two strands of liber. 
It is stripped when the grass is green by scraping with tho thumb-nail, or a mus- 
sel-shell fastened on the thumb, aud is twisted into a cord with the palm of the 
hand on the thigh. 

No. 80. Grass from which liber No. 71) is taken. 

No. 81. Grass used in the manufacture of baskets. (See Nos. 88-93, 100-102.) 

No. 82. Pad, to ])rotect the forehead in carrying heavy loads. 

No. 83. A talisman. A stone knife-blade with a wrapping of otter-skin. This 
particular kind of stone is held in great veneration, and is said to be brought 
from a long distance. It is not found in tho vicinity of Hoopa, so far as is 
known. 

No. 84. Ermine skin. 

No. 85. Stone. The size used in cooking sow-heads — a kind of acorn uiash. It 
ia cooked in a basket (No. 106) by dropping the heated stones, 



766 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MIJSHUM, 1666. 



Kthnological Ojukcts, etc. — Coiitinuc<l. 

No. tiC. A {jir'lle of woven grass; woru by woiiiou. 

No. 87. Seine needle. 

No. 88-'J3. Caps for ^Yonlen ; woven of orass, (see No. 81), except the black, 
wbieh is woven of the stems uf the niaiileu-bair fern. 

No. 94-y7. Salmou dishes. (See No. 33-34.) 

No. yS-99. Dishes for serving sow-how (acorn mash) at feasts. 

No. 100-10-i. Fancy baskets. 

No. 103. Mat of woven grass. 

No. 104. Paddle ; nscd to ceremoniously stir the dish of sow-Low while cooking 
for a feast. 

No. lOG. Basket in which sow-how is cooked with heated stones. 

No. 107. Common hunting bow. 

No. 108. Large hamjier for storing acorns, clothing, etc. 

No. 109-110. Two marmot skins. 

No. 111. Hand adze with stone handle, very old; formerly used in hollowing 
out log canoes and other wood-work ; still retained in use by the old men. 

No. 112-114. Pestles of stone; in common use. (See Nos. 31-32.) 

No. llo. Hand-spear used in killing salmon in shallow water, in the rapids. 

No. 116. Hair pins, obsolete; formerly worn by the men in the braid of hair at 
the back of the head, the point projecting to prevent the braid being grasped by 
an enemy. Chinese. 

No. 117. Indian money. Skins of the woodpecker arranged to be worn at a 
dance ; current value, $25 to $40 in trade. 

No. 118. Basket for cooking sow-how. (See No. 106.) 

No. 119. Panier in which infants are packed and carried. 

No. 120. Elk-skin armor; native name " Cue-it-vvul." Worn by warriors in 
battle as protection from arrows; now nearly obsolete. This suit has been worn 
by several generations, and has been worn in some of the modern battles with 
the whites. The cusks and triangular figures are intended to denote the number 
of enemies slain and captives taken. It is worn so as to cover the left side, with 
the left arm through the slot and the head through the opening and the tie on the 
right shoulder, and it is also tied below the right arm. The arrow-cuts and 
bullet marks were received in battle. 

No. 121. Suit of armor. Wattles and twine woven and bound Avith buckskin ; 
native name " Klnig-klicyst-e-cue-it-wul."' Woru in battle to protect the body; 
it is tied across the breast from left to right ; the red lines denote the number of 
enemies slain or captives taken, also the rank of the wearer. This class of armor 
was in common use among the Natauo and Keunck Indians belore the introduc- 
tion of fire-arms, but is now nearly obsolete. This is the only complete suit I 
have been able to obtain. 

No. 122. Native name, " Mik-klikt-okt." Tool for chipping flint, used in mak- 
ing stone arrow-heads. The work is held in the palm of the hand, which is pro- 
tected by a buckskin pad, and the chips are flaked off by pressing on the edge of 
the flint with this tool held in the right hand, the hall of the handle resting in 
the palm. 

No. 123. Arrow straightener ; native name, " Mitchi-nat-kea-kus." This tool 
is used to straighten arrow-shafts. The shaft is passed through the slot and the 
workman looks along it with his eye and nips it with the tool where it is crooked. 
They go over the arrows with the straightener several times while working them 
down with a knife, and they also carry a straightener to straighten their arrows 
that become warped in use. 

No. 124. Gambling tools (.^sticks), Kenuck (Klamath) ; native name, "Kin-nah- 
e-lah." Abunch of small wands, one of wliicli has a black band around the center. 
The game is played by any uuniber that wish to engage in betting. It is plajfe(I 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 767 

Ethnological Oh.ikcts, etc. — Coiitiuued. 

by two deiilors, sitting opposite o;icL other ou n bhiuket, cjicli hucktid by two or 
more singers ami a dniiniuer. The giiiiie coimuences by oiio of the (hfalers taking 
the sticks in both hands, about equally divided, and holding them behind his back 
and in that position shnfiling them from hand to hand, alter which he brings 
them in front of his body with both hands extended and the sticks grasi)ed so 
the players can not sec the centers. The opposite tlealer clasps his bands together 
two or three times and points to th(5 hand which ho thinks holds the stick with 
the black center. Should he guess correctly he takes the deal and holds it until 
his opi>onont wins it back in like manner. For each failure a forfeit is])aid, also 
the dealer pays a forfeit when he loses the deal. Friends of each party make out- 
side bets on the dealers ; each dealer's baud plays and sings as long as he holds 
the deal. 

No. 125. Gambling tools (sticks), Natauo (Hoopa) Indians; native name, 
" Kin-uali-e-lah." This game is essentially tlie same as that described in No. 124, 
except they use a smaller number of sticks and the joker is blacked only in the 
center, the balance at both ends and center. Both games are called Kin. 
No. 126. Head pad worn to protect the head while packing. 
Lieut. P. H. Ray, U.S. A., Fort Gaston, Califortiia. 17239. '66. (ii, a) 
Chemical Mateiuals showing the manufacture of carbonate of magnesia from the 
raw material to tlic finished products. Also specimens of Epsom salts from the 
same raw material, and Kieserite from the Stiissfort mines. 

Columbia Chemical Wokks, Brooklyn, New York. 17240. '86. (ij 
FLUoit-srAU. 

J. F. Cummins, Golconda, Pope County, Illinois. 17241. '86. (xvi) 
Wooi)-i!AT, Ntotoiiia Jloridana. 

G. Noble, Savannah, Georgia. 17242. '86. (iv) 
Casts ok Faces (15). 

Dr. Otis K. Bacheler. (Through Charles Jensen, New Ilamptou, New 
Hampshire. 172 ;:5. '86. (ii) 
Black-headed Pakalotk, P«rrt/o<«s melauocephulus, from Australia. 

Dr. L. Stkjxkger, U. S. National Museum. 17244. '>iC). (V, a) 
Lei'idoI'teija, from Texas. 

A. BoLTEU, Chicago, Illinois. 17245. '86. (x) 
Coin. A Mormon live-dollar gold piece, from Great Salt Lake City, Utah. 

Joseph LiBi'.EY, West Washington, District of Columbia. 17246. '86. (i) 
Fossil leaves from a coal mine shaft, 55 feet deep, 1,300 feet above the sea-level. 

J. D. HoFE, Elsinore, California. 17247. 'Si'>. (xiv) 
Insect, Sfrategnu julianus, Bnrm. 

C. H. Mauk, Tombstone, Arizona. 17248. '86. (x) 
Shark, Hexanclms griseus. 

D. M. Etheridge, Keei>er, Currituck Inlet Life-Saviiig Station, North Caro- 
lina. 1724'J. '86. (VII) 

Glaci.vl Bxkd's Eye Limestone, found at Henderson Bay, Jelferson County, New 
York. 

1). S. Makvix, Watcrtown, New York. 17250. ^(\. (xvii) 
Nest and Eggs (4) of Dickcissel, Spi:a ameriiMiia. 

W. H. Adams, Elmore County, Illinois. 17251. 'So. (v, n) 
Shells, Uniorcehi-s, U. lutcolus, V. pllvatm, V. phamoluii, U. coniaUis, Ii. ohlKjnus, and 
(J. voccineus. 

Dr. W. S. Newlon, Oswego, Kansas. 172.52. '86. (ix) 
Cotton and Worsted Goods, dyed with co,il-tar colors. 

II. Saltoxstall, I'aci tic Mills, B)stou, Massachusetts. 172.:U. 'dJ. (l) 



768 REPOirr on national museum, i886 

BiUD Skins fioiii the Pliillii)iiies, Cnnciimn Icacogafifer, Cacatiia hwrnatiiropyr/ia, Tani/fi- 
vathun lozonkiisis, PrioniUirtis diiicurus, Dryococcyx harrimjtoiii, riviis {DcndropicuH) 
gutiuralis. Pious (Dcndropicus) javcusis hanjitti, Picus (Chloropicoides) everctii 
(sp.), Alcedo {Halcyon) cyanopevtus, Alcedo {Ceyx) rubra, Mvropsbicolor, Euryostomus 
orientalis, Prionochilus perciissus, Cyrtostomos aurora, Lena twevdali, Urioliis xaii- 
thonotus, Buchanga leucophwa, Parus {MacJdolophus) amabilw, Corvua pusillns, Pti- 
Io2)iis {Leucotreron) gironieri, Treron itanica, Megapodius ciimingii, Ardea {Buiorides) 
javanica, Erythra phwnicura. From Cocbin-cbina : I'alwornw lathami, AJegalwma 
liivmaccphala, Oriolundiffunus, Buvhaiuja leucogoiys, Laniu.s vristaln.s, Chalcoatcthapec- 
loralin, Passer Jugijerus, Crypsirhina varians, Ardcola leucoplera, Sterna melauauchen. 
Fritiii Miidaj^ascar : J'olyhoroidcsmadagascariensis, Asiurf ranees ii, Scops metidaneiisis, 
Coraeopsis obscura, Coracopsis nigra, Poliopsitta cana, I'oJiopsitIa cana, Leptosomus 
afer, Coua cwriilea, Coiia crislatu, Curythornis cristatus viiitsioidcs, Ispidivamadagas- 
cariensis, Brachypleracias leptosomus, Brachyptcracias sqiiamiger, Bcrnieria madagas- 
cariensis, Hypsipetes madagaseariensis, Hartlaubia madagascarievsis, Euryceros pre- 
vosti, Artumia viridis, Liptopterus ohahert, Artarnia leumcephala, Tylas cdwardsi, 
Vanga curvirostra, Cyanolanitis tricolor, Calicalicus madagaseariensis, Caprimulgus 
madai/aseariensis, Corvus scapulatas, Merops siiperciliosns, Eoudia madagaseariensis, 
Funingus madagaseariensis, Vinago australis, Charadrins percnarius. Fnmi May- 
otte: Astur bnttus, Leptosomus afer, Funingus sganzini. Fioru Africa: Haliwtus 
vocifer, Chalcomiira gutturalis, Streptopelia Icvaillanti. From Cape lloru, Pata- 
gonia: Phrygilusguyi, (Iraculas caruncnlatus. (Excbange. ) 

M. Milne Edwakus, Mused d'bistoire uaturelle, Paris, France. 17254. 80. 

(V,A) 

Model of a small i)ne1>l()near Pueblo Alto, Cbaco Canon, New Mexico. 

JkuiEAU OF Ethnology, Wasbiugtou, District of Columbia. 17255. '86. 

(II, A) 

TuMOii — myoma — taken from a sliad. " Tbis tuiiior seems to be composed of fibroua 
tissue in part, and was doubtless caused by some irritating body swallowed bj' tbe 
sbad a good wbile ago. The specimen is a novelty in animal i)athology. It 
probably grew from one side of the intestine.'' * 

Golden and Smith, Washington, District of Columbia. 1725(3. '86. (xxii) 
Akgentine, Argentina sp. Found on the beach near Fletcher Nock Life-saving Sta- 
tion, Maine. A rare visitor on our coast. 
E. II. Bunker, Biddeford Poll, Maine. 17258. '86. (vii) 
Plants (15 Alpine species), from the White Mountains, New Hampshire. 

Walter Deane, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 17259. '86. (xv) 
Plants (about 300 species) from North Carolina, a locality rarely visited by botau- 
ists. 

Gerald McCarthy, Kendall Green, Washington, District of Colnmbia. 17260. 
'86. (XV) 
Plants (343 species) from the Yellowstone Park. 

U. S. Geological Survfiy, Washington, District of Columbia. (Through 
Frank Tweedy.) 17261. '86. (xv) 
American Smp:lt, Osmerus mordax. 

W. C. Harris, New York City. 17262. '86. (vii) 
Marine Invertebrates collected by the U. S Steamer Enterprise, A. S. Baker com- 
manding, during her cruise from Wellington, New Zealand, to the United States, 
in the South Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. 
Bureau of Navigation, Washington, District of Columbia. 17263. '86. (xi) 

* Report of Dr. Johu S. Billings, U. S. A., Curator, Army Medical Museum. 



86. (I) 






'tiG. (xviii) 




(I) 






). (XVI) 






30. 17270 


'8G 


. (XVI) 


17271. 


'86. 


(XVI) 


17271. 


'80. 


(XVII) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 769 

Califounia Mountaix Trout, Salmo iridens. Hatcbcd ami rai.sfHl at Wytlieville, 
Virginia. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 172(il. '60. (vii) 
Ivory-billed Woodpkcker, CampcphiJus principalis, $ (head). 

E. C. Greenwood, Marco, Florida. 1726r). 'St!, (xii) 
Materia Medica. EJephanta rhiza, a rare drug. 

Thomas Christv, Loudon, England, 1726G. ' 
Iron Speisse. 

O. H. Hahn, South Pueblo, Colorado. 172G7. 
Pearl Baits of various kinds. Old and curious. 

W. Holberton, New York City. 172G8. '8G. 
Mineral Cabinet (20 specimens). 

n. A. Tammen, Denver, Colorado. 172G9. '86. 
Meteoric Iron and Stone (8 specimens). 

Dr. J. Berrien Lindsley, Nashville, Tennessee. 17270. '86. 
Minerals, (58 specimens). (Exchange.) 

Prof. B. K. Emerson, Amherst, Ma.ssachusctts. 
Rocks (56 specimens). (Exchange.) 

Prof. B. K. Emerson, Amherst, Massachusetts. 
Artist's proof of the engraving of General Grant, by Marshall. 

Hubbard Bros., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 17272. ^Sij. (i) 
Mortuary jMedal. Mardchal de Ligne, Marshal of France. Cast from cannon 
captured by Napoleon I, and issued to some of the invalids of the French veteran 
corps. 

Paul Beckwith, Saint Louis, Missouri. 1/273. '8G. (i) 

Argyrodite, from which was obtained the now metal. Germanium; from Ilimmels- 
fUrst, near Brand, Freiberg, Saxony. 

W. F. HiLT.EBRAND, U. S. Geological Survey. 17274. ^86. (xvi) 
"Caranna Resin,'' used by the natives of Central and South America for ajipli- 
cations to sores, bruises, cuts, and for reducing swellings and glandular en- 
largements. 

Frederick Stearns ajstd Co., Detroit, Michigan. 17275. '8G. (i) 
Tusk of Elephant, Loxodon africanus. A section prei^ared from the part of the tusk 
of "Jumbo," which was buried in his head. 

Henry A. Ward, Rochester, New York. 17276. '86. (xii) 
Red-tailed Hawk, Buteo horealis. 

John K. Walker, Parkersburgh, Illinois. 17277. '86. (v) 
Soapstone Bowl, found in opening a soapstone quarry on the west bank of the 
Potomac River, about 7 miles above West Washington, District of Columbia. 

John W. Brock, Philadeliihia, Pennsylvania. 17278. '86. (iii) 
Decorticated Tree Trunks. 

John W. Brock, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 17278. '86. (xiv) 
Calcite Crystals attached to coal. 

R. Ellsworth Call, Moline, Illinois. 17279. '86. (xvi) 
Trenton Fossils. 

W. A. Finkelnbeug, Winona, Wisconsin. 17280. '86. (xiii, a) 
Cage Bird, Cluisotis Ifucoceplialus. 

Robert Ridgway, U. S. National Museum. 17281. '86. (v, a) 
Red-tailed Hawk, Buteo horealis. 

J. SCHNECK, Mount Carmel, Illinois. 17282. '86. (V, a) 

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 — -49 



770 REPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Devonian Fossils (60 specimeus). 

U. S. Geological Survey, WasMngton, District of Columbia, (Through 
CD. Walcott.) 17283. '80. (xiii, a) 
Cauboniferous Fossils, from Eastern Tennessee (83 specimens). 

U. S. Geological SuxiVEV, "Washiugtou, District of Colftmbia. (Through 
CD. Walcott.) 17284. '80. (xiii, a) 
Bird Skins (.26 specimens), from Soutli America. (Exchange.) 

H. K. COALK, Chicago, Illinois. 17285. '86. V, a) 
Fossils: Devonian, Silurian, and Ordovician (3,500 specimens), from Indiana and 
Kentucky. 

U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia. 17286. '80. 
(xiii, a) 
Eggs of mud minnow, Umhra limi. 

W. P. Seal, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 17287. '86. (xxi) 
Fossil Plants (7 specimens), from tbe southern slope of Cumberland Mouutain. 
C D. Walcott, U. S. Geological Survey. 17288. '86. (xv) 

Fossil Plants (6 specimens), from near Wales, Utah. 

Dr. C.A.White, U.S. Geological Survey. 17239. '6i5. (xiv) 

Monkey, Cercocebus alhigena, from the Congo region, Africa. 

Zoological Society of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Penusylvania. (Through 
Arthur Edwin Brown, Esq.) 17290. '86. (iv) 
Bird Skins, 51 species (524 specimeus), from the Bahamas.* 

U.S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 17291. '86. (v, a). 
Nests oi Turdus musteJinus, Mimus polyglottos, Cistoihorus palustris, Geothli/pis trichas, 
Vireo olivaceus, Melospisa fasciata, JSpizclJa socialis, Setophaga ruticilla, Contopua 
virens, and Spinus tristis. 
C R. Radcliffe, New York City. 17292. '86. (v, b) 
Photograph of a tooth of mammoth, Elephas sp., found one mile from Arlington, 
Oregon, at an altitude of six or eight hundred feet, in clay about twelve feet deep. 
James W. Smith, Alkali, Oregon. 17293. '86. (xii) 
Stalagmites (2 specimens). 

Alexander R. Shepherd, Batopilas, Mexico. 17294, '86. (xvii) 
Fungus, a curious specimen. 

Alexander R. Shepherd. Batopilas, Mexico. 17294. '66. (xv) 
Antique Pottery, minute but interesting specimeus. 

Rev. David F. Watkins, Guadalajara, Mexico. 17295. '86. (ii, b) 
Picture of a menhaden steamer, and one purse-net. 

Daniel F. Church, Tiverton, Rhode Island. 17296. '86. (i) 
Indian Stone Axes, from Connecticut and Pennsylvania. (Excliauge.) 

A. F. WOOSTER, Norfolk, Connecticut. 17297. '86. (iii) 
Wool raised in Australia. 

G. W. Griffin, U. S. Consul, Sydney, Australia. (Through Department of 
State.) 17298. '8(5. (i) 
Meteoric Iron, from Tennessee. 

Academy op Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 17299. '86.. 
(xvi;i 
Spinning-Wheel, from Ohio. 

Charles Beck, Washington, District of Columbia. 17300. '86. (i) 
NESTofGoldeu-wiugtHl Warbler, Helminthophiuja clirysoptera Linn., from Petersburg,, 
Virginia. 

U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia. (Through, 
Charles W. Richmond.) 17301. 'tt6. (v, b) 

* See report of Department of Birds* p. 156. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 771 

AuKowHEADS (8), from Lehigh Island. 

A. F. Berlin, AUentovru, Peuusylvauia. 17'M2. \^i'>. (iii) 
IxsKCTs: Trofjus Rileyi, Diccrca tenebrosa, and ranhi/fa ininiticjla, rare species. 

W. W. Hill, Albany, New York. 17:50:5. 'S'6. (x) 

BoKiXG of Monarthrum mall, in red oak. 

E. A. SCHWAKZ, Washington, District of Columbia. 17:501. 'rfG. (x) 
Bird Skins: Cypseloides nUjer, Calliste Jluridana (the only example iu any American 
collection), Euphonia (jracllin $ , and Fipra coracina ^ . 
Jos6 G. Zeledon, San Jos6, Costa Kica. 17305. '8(5. {v, a) 
Ethnological Objects: Nepaul kookrie sheath, containing broad knife for use as 
a weapon; 2 small knives used in eating, and a i)urse or bag for money, from 
Nepaul, India. 
William H. Dall, U. S. Geological Survey. 1730G. '8(). (ii, a) 

Double-headed Snake. 

Dr. J. M. Spainhour, Lenoir, North Carolina. 17307. '8C>. (vi) 
Indian Implement, egg-shaped and made of iron ore. 

Dr. J. M. Spainhour, Lenoir, North Carolina. 17307. '66. (iii) 

Menhaden, Brevoortia tyr annus. 

Daniel T. Church, Tiverton, Khode Island. 17308. '86. (vii) 

Bird Skins. A valuable and interesting collection, consisting chieHy of desiderata 
from South America, nearly all of whi ch are new to the Museum collection. The 
collection consists of the following specimens: Tardus alicue Baird, Merida ; 
I'urdus g'ujas paUidiieniris Ber]. M. S., Merida; Henicorhina liUaris Berl. audTacz., 
(J, Cayandeled; Thryopltilus lonyirostris (Vieill.), Bahia; Thryothorus sclateri 
Tacz., Bogota; Troglodytes striatulus Juajfr., Bucaramanga; Basileuterus cahanisi 
Berl., Merida; Setophaga alhifroiis Scl. and Sal v., Merida; Conlrostrum atrocya- 
neum Lafr., <y , Tambillo; Compsoooma sumptuosa cyanoptera (Cab.), ^ , Chaguarpa- 
ta; Compsocoma sumptuosa cyanoptera, $, Cayandeled; Nemosia ornata Scl., $, 
Cayandeled ; Buarremon castaneifrons Scl. and Salv., Merida ; Saltator superciliaris 
(Spix), Pebas; Orcliesiicus aler {Gva\.)=.Tanagra olivina Scl., juv., Bucara- 
njanga; Chrysomitris siemiradzii Berl. and Tacz. <^, Guayaquil; Cyanocitta meri- 
dana Scl. and Salv., Merida ; Cyanocorax affinis sclateri (Heine), Baranquilla; Eus- 
carthinas impiger iicl. a.n(l Salv., Bucaramanga; Myiarchus pelzelni Berl., Bahia; 
Elainea mesolcuca Cab. and Heine,?, Taguara; Piprcola melanolwnm Scl.,<y, 
Merida; Piprcola melanolwma,^ , Meridn; Furnarius agnalus Scl. and Salv., Ba- 
ranquilla; Thripophaga sclateri Btirl., Tixgna,rii; Fhilydor striaticollls Scl., 9, Ma- 
j)oto ; Thamnophilus plumbeus Scl., ^ juv., Rio Tigre ; Thamnophilus unicolor (Scl.), 
J, Cayandeled; Thamnophilus muUistriatus Lafr.,^, Bucaramanga; Myrmeciza 
squamosa, Peiz., J , Sta. Catarina; Scytalopus fuscoides Lafr., Chili; Fetasophora 
a/iais (Less.), Merida; Fetasophora cyanotis (Bourc.), $, (?), Merida; Bourcieria 
cwwrrtdi (Bourc), (? , Merida; Eriocnemis smarugdinipcctus Gould., J , San Rafael; 
Amazilia ivarszewiczi braccata (Heine), Merida; Amazilia warszewiczi, Fanychlora 
stentiraCah. and Heine, <? , jr., Merida; Chwtocercus rosw (Bourc. and Muls.), $ , jr., 
and $ ad. Merida; Lurocalis nattereri (Tani.), S. Brazil; Hydropsalis furoifera 
(Vieill.), (? , Sao Laurengo; Slenopsis cayennensis (Gmel.), <?, Roraima; Conurus 
roseifrons Gray, 5, Tarapoto ; Bolborhynchus inonachus (]5odd.). La Plata; Bro- 
togcrys jugularis (Deville), Yguitos; Jirologerys iui (Gml.), ,?, Nauta; Syrnium 
suinda (Vieill.), Taguara, Columba plumbea (Vieill. ), $ , Taguara ; Chamaspeles gou- 
doti (Less.), (J , Cayandele<l; Tinamus solitarias (Vieill.), BlunKjuaii ; Crypsirhina va- 
rians, Java; Xanlhodira Jlavicoliis, Malabar; Geocichla cyauoius, East India} 
Gallinago uilsoni, Mniida. ; Jlelminthophaga chrysoplera, MurUhi; Tardus usulatus 
(?), Guatemala and Ecuador; lache latiroslris, and lache sp. (?), Tres Marias. 

Museum Hans \'ux Berlepscii, Miiudeu, Province of ll!int)ver, Germany. 1730y. 
'e6. ( V a) 



772 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Specimens, illustrating the manufacture of cotton thread. 

WiLLiMANTic LiXEX Co.MPANY, WilUmautic, Connecticut. 17310. '86. (i) 
Lizard, CoUomjx rariegatus Bd., from Mohave, Kern County, California. 

A. KOEBLE, Los Angeles, California. 17311. '86. (vi) 
HoiJjTHUKEANS, Thtfonella gcmmata, var., from Beaufort, North Carolina. 

Dr. W. H. Howell, Baltimore, Maryland. 17312. '86. (xi) 
Artist's Pkoofs of lithograph of General Grant's Arabian horses. (4) 

Randolph Huntington, Rochester, New York. 17313. '86. (iv) 

COLEMANITE. 

Prof. Henry G. Hanks, San Francisco, California. 17314. '86. (xvi) 
Serpentine and calcite, from Canada. 

William H. Dall, U. S. Geological Survey. 17315. '86. 
Pigmy Sperm AVhale, Kogia Ireviceps. 

George Sayers, Keeper, Sea Isle City Life-Saving Station, Sea Isle City, New 
Jersey. 17316. '86. (vil) 
Furnace Slag, from Coal Creek, Tennessee. 

U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia. (Through Dr. 
O. B. Reese.) 17317. '63. (xvii) 
Photographs of Osage and Ute Indians. (17.) 

Bureau of Ethnology, Washington, District of Columbia. 17318. '86. (ii, a) 

Glass-ware. "Pomona'^ vases, etc. 

New England Glass Works. (Through M. W. Beveridge, Washington, Dis- 
trict of Columbia.) 17319. '86. (i) 
Worm- tubes, from a spring near Lititz, Pennsylvania. 

H. A. Brickenstein, Linden Hall Seminary, Lititz, Lancaster County, Penn- 
sylvania. 17320. '86. (XI) 
Californi.\ Salmon, Oncorhynchus c/ioiuc7ta, and Steel-head Salmon, Salino gairdneri. 

E. G. Blackford, New York City. 17321. '86. (vii) 
Ring-tailed Monkey', Ateles arachnoides, in the flesh. 

Barton & Logan, Dime Museum, Washington, District of Columbia. 17322. 
'86. (IV) 
Coins. Spanish-American silver dollar, 1769. Spanish two-real piece ; xii-shilliug 
silver coin of Danish West Indies, 1740 ; nickel penny of Jamaica, 1869 ; and 
Massachusetts copper cent. (Deposited.) 
A. A. Duly, U.S. National Museum. 17323, '86. (i) 

Carboniferous Fossils. 

W.C. Knight, Lincoln, Nebraska. 17324. '86. (xiii, a) 

Red-breasted Merganser, Merganser serrator. 

John Jensen, Wood's Holl, Massachusetts. 1732.5. '86. (v, a) 
Rusty Crackles, ScoJecophagus fcrrugineus (2 skulls). 

W. H. Babcock, Washington, District of Columbia. 17326. '86. (viii) 
Reptiles. Eutwnia sirtalis, Eana pahistris, E. cateshiana, E. silvaiica, E. clamata, and 
Biifo leniiginosus. 

U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia. (Through II. 
W. Henshaw.) 17327. '86. (vi) 
Half-Guinea of Great Britain, George III., 1790. (Copy in brass.) 

Joseph Sessford, Smithsonian Institution. 17328. '86. (i) 
Arrowheads made by a foot-treadle machine. 

George E. Sellers, Bowlesville, Illinois. 17329. 'SH. (ii) 
Pressed Sulphide of silver in the form in which the silver is recovered from the 
leaching, solution. 

Fred. W. Tay'LOR, Lake Valley, New Mexico. 17330. '87. (xviii) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 773 

Ancient ScULPTUKKD Stoxio Urouujht to the Uu i tod Siati'.s by Coiiiuuuulor Skinner, 
U.S.N. (3 pieces.) 
Mrs. W. Hemphill Jones, WaKhington, District of Columbia. 17331. '86. (i) 

Confederate Captain's Uniform coat of Company "II," Twenty-fourth Regiment, 
Virginia. 
O. W. Barrow, Danville, Virginia. 1833-2. '86. (i) 

Photograph of the Berlin Archeopteryx (full size). (Exchange.) 

Mrs. G. Brown Goode, Washington, District of Columbia. 17333. '86. (xii) 

One-Dollar Bill, Colonial Bank of Canada, May 8, 1839. 

J. Benjamin Clayton, U. S. National Museum. 17334. '86. (i) 

Ked Setter, Canis familiaris. 

James T. Walker, Palmyra, New York. 1733.5. '6C>. (iv) 

Jumping Mouse, Zapns hudsonius. 

J. M. C. Eaton, Irviugtou, New Jersey. 17336. '86. (iv) 

RoCKLiNG, Onos cimbrius, from Ipswich Bay. 

William Wiley, Massachusetts. 17337. '86. (vii) 

Bird Skins (5), Drymoica extensicauda, Acanlhls exilipcs, and A. caharct. 
W. E. Brooks, Milton, Ontario, Canada. 17338. '86. (v, a) 

Porcelain Wares. A pair of dishes (painted under glaze); a pair of dishes 
(painted over glaze); Nishi tsushi shiro ishi (stouo like body clay, natural); 
Nishi tsushi shiro ishi (i)owdered) ; Sakoi shiro tsuchi (stone like body clay, natu- 
ral); Sakoi shio tsuchi (powdered) ; Sakoi mizu ana ishi (stone like body clay, 
natural); Sakoi Mizu ana ishi (powdered); Tsnzi ishi (stone-like body clay, 
natural) ; Tsuzi ishi (stone like body clay, powdered); Sakai tsuchi (stone like 
body clay, natural); Sakai tsuchi (powdered). Glaze stone A (natural) ; glaze 
stone (elutriated) ; glaze stouo B (natural) ; Goto clay (body clay) ; Taister clay 
(body clay); prepared body clay; a pair of flower-pots painted under ghazo 
with Gosu cobalt; Gairom (body clay, natural) ; Gairomo (elutriated); Kibushi 
(body clay, natural) ; Kibushi (elutriated) ; Hiromi ishi (glazestone) ; lliromi 
(elutriated); Giamau (elutriated; silica used for glaze and body). A pair of 
llower-pots (white); Kakitani tsuchi (body clay, natural, first quality); Kaki- 
taui tsuchi (elutriated); Kakitani tsuchi (second quality); Kakitani tsuchi 
(third quality); Hitani tsuchi (body clay, natural) ; llitani tsuchi (elutriated, 
first quality); llitani tsuchi (second quality) ; Hitani tsuchi (elutriated) ; Hitani 
tsuchi (third quality, elutriated). Mixture, No. 23, 29, and 33; elutriated ash 
for glaze; Oyabui (elutriated ash for glaze); prepared clay (first quality) ; pre- 
pared clay (second quality) ; a pair of flower-pots (painted); Aniakusa tsuchi 
(body clay); Araishi; Shigaraki ishi (body clay) ; glaze (first quality); Flower- 
pots (painted); flower-pots (white) ; cake box with cover ; Gorokuji ishi (body 
clay) ; Nabelani ishi (body clay) ; Sano ishi (glaze clay) ; Sano ishi (elutriated) ; 
body for Kutani ware (mixture of No. 51 and 52); tsuki bai (ash for glaze); 
Itsuki bai (elutriated); Rea pigment for painting over glaze ; Gosu (natural co- 
balt, one powdered) ; a pair of fiower-pots (white); flower-pot (painted); Bora 
tsuchi (body clay); Bora tsuchi (elutriated); Neba tsuchi (body clay); Neba 
tsuchi(elutriatcd) ; Shiro tsuchi (body clay, natural) ; Shiro tsuchi (elutriated); 
Suna (sand for glaze) ; Suna (elutriated) ;^vioromiiui tsuchi (body clay); Kioro- 
mine (elutriated) ; Clay for glaze (natural) ; Clay for glaze (elutriated) ; prepared 
glaze; a pair of flower-pots (painted); Okazaki tsuchi (painted); Shigaraki 
tsuchi (painted) ; Shigaraki tsuchi (for glaze); Shiraye tsuchi (liody clay) ; Kisi 
ishi (clay for glaze); Isubai (ash for glaze); Koya bai (ash for glaze) ; Kinsu, 
or tea-pot (painted) ; a pair of flower-pots (painted) ; Obuke tsuchi (gray body 
clay, natural); Obuke tsuchi (elutriated); Obuke tsuchi (brown l)ody chiy 
(natural); Obuke tsuchi (elutriated) ; Igaishi (glazestone, natural) ; Igaishi (clu' 
triated); prepared clay, gray; i)repared clay, brown. 

Department of Education, Tokyo, Jap.an. 17339. '86. (i) 



774 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Ornament made of slaeep-skin and beads, having loteiriic devices; taken from tho 
bead of a dead Indian warrior. 

James M. Null, McKenzie, Tennessee. 17340. '86. (ii, a) 
Ophiukan, from Boca Ceiza Bay, Florida. 

.John R. Jones, Tampa, Florida. 17341. '86. (xi) 
Tkenton Fossils (3,'^9 specimens). 

H.C.POWEKS, Beloit, Wisconsin. 17342. '86. (xni, a) 
Weathered Limestone, siliceous concretions and stylobites; from Tennessee. 

Ira Sayles, U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia. 17343. 
'86. (XV) 
Birds, Junco hyemalis carolinensis, from North Carolina. 

William Brewster, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 17314. 'b'G. (v, a) 
European Badger, Meles taxus, in the flesh. 

Central Park Menagerie (through W. A. Conklin, esq., New York City). 
17345. '86. (IV) 
Nest and Eggs of European Goldfinch, Fringilla eardueJis Linn. 

E. T. Adney, New York City. 17346. '86. (v, b) 
Aiuiows (3) used by the "Prairie Dog Indians." 

A. M. Stephens, Koam's Canon, Arizona. 17347. '86. (ir, a) 
Fossil Corn, from slope of the Lehigh Coal and Navigation Company's Mine, Penn- 
sylvania. 

John W. Brock, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 17348. '87. (xiv) 
Atlantic Salmon, Salmo salar (probably var. sehago), from Eagety Point, Lower 
Potomac. 

R. A. Golden, Washington, District of Columbia. 17349. '87. (Vii) 

Stone Pestle, from Grant's Pass, Oregon. 

Charles Aldrich, Webster City, Iowa. 17350. -86. (iii) 

Coal. 

Dr. Wolfred Nelson, New York City. 17351. '86. (xviii) 

Materia Medica, from Panama. 

Dr. Wolfred Nelson, New York City. 17351. 'SQ. (i) 
Hand Paper Mold, imported from London in 1815. 

Henry W. Miller, Worcester, Massachusetts. 173.52. '86. (i) 
English Hand-made Tacks and samples of very small tacks, weighing 4 ounces to 
the thousand. (Deposited.) 

Henry W. Miller, Worcester, Massachusetts. 17352. '86. (xviii) 

Aluminum Bronzf. 

CowLES Aluminum Company, Cleveland, Ohio. (Through Dr. T. M. Chatard, 
U.S. Geological Survey.) 17.353. '86. (xviii) 

Sandstone Concretions, from Dickinson, Dakota Territory; ferruginous concre- 
tion, from Glendive, Montana Territory; volcanic dust, from Norton County, 
Kansas. 

Dr. A. C. Peale, U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia. 
17354. '86. (XVII) 

Stone Ax, double-grooved, unfinished, from Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. (Ex- 
change.) A. F. WooSTER, Norfolk, Connecticut. 17355. '86. (iii) 

Alligator, from New Orleans, Louisiana. 

Mrs. A. Taussig, Washington, District of Columbia. 17356. '86. 

Copper Coin. One bajocco, 1851, of Pope Pius IX. 

Calhoun Patterson, Rockville, Maryland. 17357. '86. (i) 



List OF ACCESSIONS. 17^ 

HATCHKT,l)rouolit from Scotbuul ill 1G85; piece of ancient linen ; n "sampler"; six 
tidies, linen thread, and five pairs of stockings. (Deposited.) 

Mrs. Margaret Bishop, Attica, New York. (Through A.J. Lorisli). 173r>8. 
'86. (I) 
Ai.GRRiAX Marble (5 slabs). A valuable addition to the collection, both on account 
of their beauty and from the fact that they were taken from the old Roman 
quarries in Algeria, which have for mauy years been lost sight of, but which 
liave recently been re-opened by a Belgian company. 
E.FRiTscn, New York City. 172^)0. '86. (xviii) 
Colored Prints of Lady and Ceorge Washington, i)ublished over one hundreu years 
ago, by J. Testi, London. 

C.R.Whedon, New Haven, Connecticut. 17300. '86. (i) 

Galvaxoplastic Copies of fossil Amphibians, Slcgocephali. 

Dr. Ant. Fritsch, Prague, Bohemia, Austria. 17;5(;L '86. (xii) 
Bird Skixs. A colbiction of 101 species (148 specimens), containing Hdinwia swainsoni 
and 07-nithion. rldgwayi, the latter being previously not represented in the collec- 
tion. 
Charles K. Worthen, Warsaw, Illinois. 17362. '86. (v, a) 

Bexgal Tiger, Felis tigris, in the flesh. 

P. T. Barxum and Co., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 17363. (iv) 
Pipe made of laurel root, cane stem, by a mountaineer of Cumberland Gap, in the 
summer of 1875. 

John Murdoch, U. S. National Museum. 17364. '86. (ii, a) 

Carboniferous Fossils (107 specimens). 

U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia. 1736,5. '86. 
(xiii, a) 
Carboxiferous Fossils, from Now Jersey. (318 specimens, collection of the 40th 
Parallel Survey.) 
U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia. 1T366. '86. 

(XIII) 

Sealixg Wax. A collection of various kinds, to replace accession 15463, which was 
injured by heat. 

IJennison Manufacturing Compaxy, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 17367. 
'86. (I) 
Microscopic Slides of British sponge,* including many types of Bowerbank (268 
specimens). (Exchange.) 

Rev. A. M. Norman, Durham, England. 17368. '86. (xi) 
]>ay Lynx, Lynx ritfus (skull), from near Fort Verde, Arizona. 

B. J. D. Irwin, U. S. Army. 173C9. '8G. (xii) 
Ski.vnixg Kxives (12), found near Lumberton, New Jersey. 

W. IT. H. Chambers, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 17370. '86. (iii) 
Texcii, Tinea vulgaris, from the Potomac River. 

GwYNX Harris, Washington, District of Columbia. 17371. '86. (vii) 
CoMMox Mackerel, Scomber scomhrns, from Chesapeake Bay, near the month of the 
I'otoniac River. 

W. Yeatmax, Keeper, Point Lookout light-bouse, Maryland. 17372. '86. (vn) 
Red 'PoLi., a canth is Zmaria (3 specimens), from Canada; and Phyllopseustes horealis, 
from Burmah. 
W. E. Brooks, Milton, Ontario. 17373. '86. (v,a) 
Stoxe Sixker, smooth, oblong, with a groove around one end. 

T. W. Castleman, Saint Joseph, Louisiana. 17374. '86. (m) 

* See report of the Department of Marine Invertebrates, p. 200. 



776 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Amekican Mink, ruiorius vison, iu the flesh. 

John Jansen, Wood's HoU, Massachusetts. 171)75. '8(). (iv) 
Nest AND Eggs of ifarj)or7i^«c/( MS ZccoM/ei. (Purchased.) 

F. Stephens, San Beruardiuo, California. 17376. '86. (v, B) 
Chiriqui Pottery, for classification. 

John S. Lamson & Bro., New York City. 17377. '86. (ii, b) 
Publications : " Early Coins of America," " The Coinage of America and the World, 
Ancient and Modern," "The Coins of the Bible." (Pamphlets:) "The Coin Chart 
Manual," "Illustrations of Copper Coins," " Young Collector's Hand-Book," 
"Catalogue of Paper Money," "Statutes Relating to the United States Coins." 
"Premium List of Prices Paid," "The Curiosity Cabinet," "Coin Collectors' 
Journal," January to April, 18S6. (Exchange.) 
Scott Stamp and Coin Company, New York City. 17378. '86. (i) 
Fossil Shells, Productus semirvtieulatus, Martin ; also a cast of the interior ventral 
valve of Sjjirifera Logani, Hall. 
Wiley Brittain, Springfield, Missouri. 17379. '86. (x) 
Insect, Dytiscus, a species allied to faseiventr is. 

Frank P. Gold, Rest, Virginia. 17380. '86. (x) 
Nest and Eggs of Song Sparrow, Melospiza fasciata. 

J. A. Balmer, Paris, Edgar County, Illinois. 17381. '86. (v, b) 
Ethnological Objects : Jade inkstand and holder; Chinese historical illustrations; 
plate of Confucius and his disciples at the ancestral temple at Chou, and his dis- 
course on that occasion ; ten photographs, illustrating the manners and customs 
of China; two copies of the Daily Pekin Gazette, the oldest newspaper in the 
world — from China. Japanese magic mirror; Japanese writing copies ; index to 
Somoku-Dusets, a great work on Japauese botany; two maps of Tokio, with 
English copy; Jai^anese edition of Siddharashta ; Japanese encyclopedia for be- 
ginners, in ten volumes; thirty plates, with description of Japanese agricultural 
products; chart of the vegetable kingdom, according to the natural system, in 
Latin and Japanese; Loo Choo plaque, lacquered and inlaid with mother of pearl. 
Dr. D. B. McCartee, Washington, District of Columbia. 17382. '86. (ii,a) 

Photograph of skull and skeleton of Cervalces americanus. 

Franklin C. Hill, Princeton, New Jersey. 17383. '86. (xii) 
Confederate States Relics : Official papers of the treasury and of the post-office 
departments ; military orders of the Confederate States; paper money, postage- 
stamps, and a military button of the Confederacy. 
C. G. Addison, Springfield, Maryland. 17384. '86. (i) 
Paper Money: Pennsylvania State bank bills, one dollar bill of Fanners' National 
Bank, Pottsvillo, and a five dollar bill of the Bank of Pennsylvania. 
George W. Snyder, Somerset, Pennsylvania. 17385. '86. (i) 

Coins, medals, and tokens of ancient Rome and other ancient and modern countries. 
Mrs. H. M. Foreman, Washington, District of Columbia. 17386. '86. (i) 

Shells, Tapes siaminea, from Seattle, Washington Territory. 

ViNAL N. Edwards, Wood's Holl, Massachusetts. 17387, '86. (ix) 

Chinese Cabinet, or student's book-case. 

K. Palm Lee, Chinese Legation, Washington, District of ColnmT)ia. 17388. 
'86. (II, a) 

Bird Skins (6 species) from Europe and Siberia, including Tardus alpeslris, and a 
gray-headed green woodpecker, described by the donor as a type of new sub- 
species, Picus canus i^erpallidus. (Exchange.) 
Dr. L. Ste.ineger, U. S. National Museum. 17389. ^SG. (v, a) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 777 

Silver and Coitkh Coins oC tho United States, Grciit Britain, Iiolinul, and Ger- 
many. 
RALrii Collier, Laurel, Maryland. 173U0. 'riU. (i; 
Knee Buckles and a pair of shoe buckles, once the propert;y cf Charles Carroll 
of CarroUton. 
Ralph Collier, Laurel, Maryland. 17390. '80, (i) 
Brass Token, or joton, of Louis XV, King of Franco and Navarro. 

Meredith S. Diggs, U. S. National Museum. 1739L '86. (i) 
Milk Sugar iiiai\ufactui"od iu Switzerland, accompanied by reports on the same l)y 
the United States Consul in that country. 

Department of State, Washington, District of Columbia. 17392. '86. (i) 
Stone Lamp, from the Eskimo of Smith Sound, Alaska. 

Dr. Emil Bessels, Washington, District of Ccdumbia. 17393. '8G. (ii,a) 
Uniform Coat worn in tho Confederate States army by a lieutenant of cavalry. (De- 
posited.) 
C. W. MacFarlane, Richmond, Virginia. 17394. '86. (i) 

Photographs of Apache Indians (14). 

A. F. Randall, Doming, New Mexico. 17395. '86. (n, a) 
Indian Beads from a mound near Archer, Florida. 

Dr. James C. Neal, Archer, Alachua County, Florida. 17396. '86. (iii) 
Turtle, Chelopus muhlenhergi. 

F. C. Hill, Princeton, New Jersey. 17397. '66. (xii) 
Russian Petroleum as refined at Marseilles (2 bottles). Also consular report on 
this subject. 

Department op State, Washington, District of Columbia. 17.398. '86. (i) 
Stone Implements. 'Two p(dished celts from Abaco Island; fragment of worked 
bone from New Providence Island; celt and rubbing stone from New Providence 
Island ; three celts, chisel, and a pendant from Watling Island ; collected by tho 
steamer AlJiatross during her cruise to the Bahamas. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 17399. '86. (iii) 
Mollusca, from the Bahamas. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 17400. 'SG. (ix) 
Skull and Bones, found in a cave on Watling Island. Also pieces of pottery. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 17400. '86. (iii) 
Marine Invertebrates, from the Bahamas. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 17400. '86. (xi) 
Birds' Nests and Eggs, from the Bahamas. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 17400. '86. (v, b) 
Snakes and Lizards (127 specimens), from the liahamas. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 17400. '86. (vi) 
Turtle Jig, from Abaco Island. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 17400. '86. (i) 
Leaves of Aloes, from the Bahamas. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 17400. '86. (i) 
Roaches (2), Ilippoboscids (4), scorpions (,'')), myriai)ods (4), and spiders (13). 

U. S. Fish CO.MMISSION, Washington, District of Columbia. 17400. '86. (x) 
Rushes, from the Bahamas. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 17400. '86. (i) 
Straw Hat and eight straw baskets. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 17400. '86. (ii, a) 



778 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Mammals, riiyllouyclerus sezekorni, Tursiops lursio, HIus musculua, Vesperugo seroiinns, 
Frocyon loior and 3fus decumanus. 
U. S. Fish Commissiox, Washiugtou, District of Columbia. 17400, '86. (iv) 

Birds (425 species), 628 specimens) ; including »S'a'(ro<7ifra hahamensis and Bendroica 
kirtlandi, very rare; several new forms to be described as Geothlypis tannerl,Cen- 
turus ilakei, and Vireo crassirostris flavescens, from the Bahamas. Also a collection 
from Key West containing a now species of Vireo. 
U. S. Fisn Commission, Washington, D. C. 17400. '86. (v, a) 

Fishes. Eulamia milberti, FteracUs carolinus, Notacanthus n. sp., Oreosoma {?), Paralepis, 
GoMesox, Hccmulon, Lufjanus, Epineplielus, Harengula, Enneacentrus, Exoccefus,Aruis, 
Hemirhamphus, Scopelns, MyropHs, Leptocephalua, OJigoplUes, Echencis, Synapho- 
hrancJius, Haloporphyrus, Macrurns, ScylUum 2»'s?7?(e8, Hoflosihctlms, Cyclothone, 
LcBtnonema, MauroUcus, Lycodes, Chlorophthahntis, Rain, Sigmops, Serrivomer, Me- 
lampha'e's, Sternoptyx, ArgyropeUcus, Uroloplius, Chaunax, Cottiinmthts, Apogon, 
Stephanoberyx, Lophius, Coryphcenoides, Callionymus, Gonostoma, Dihranclms, Hip- 
pocampus, DicroUne, Chauliodus, MaWhe, Amitra, Stomias, Neohythitcs, Scorpcena, 
Flectromus, Synodiis, MonocantJms, Anten nanus, HaJosaurus, Calamus, Sparisoma, 
Scams, Carcharias, Balistes,irugil, Ghjphidodon, Aiherina, Lahrosomus, Fomacenirus, 
Xyrichthys, Flatyglossus, Gohitis, Julis, Leplocephalus, Tetrodon, Scopelus, Cypri- 
nodon, Fierasfer, Syngnathus, Synodus, DusHiMiiicria, Pomacanthus, Sei'ioJa, Caranx^ 
MurcBim, from Bahama Islands. 
U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 17400. '86. (vii) 

Egyptian Mummy. 

Hon. S. S. Cox, United States Minister to Turkey. 17401. '36. (ii,a) (De- 
scribed on page 50.) 

Opossums, Didelphys virginiana, from near Benuings, District of Columbia. 

W.B. Shaw, Washington, District of Columbia. 17402.. '86. (iv) 
Korean Silver Coins, two one-8hot=15 cents, and one two-shot = 30 cents. 

Lieut. W. A. MiNTZER, U. S. Navy. 17403. '86, (l) 
Reptiles, Etitwuia sirt^Us sirtalis. 

H. C. Bumpus, Providence, Rhode Island. 17404. '86. (vi) 
Fossil Butter and a china dish, supposed to be over a hundred years old. 

D. Charlton, Christiansburgh, Virginia. 17405. '86. (i) 

Military PASStoFredericksburgh, dated Richmond, Virginia, September 2, 1861, and 
signed by John Letcher, governor of Virginia. 

Capt. C. W. DuNNiNGTON, U. S. National Museum. 17406. '86. (i) 
Fossils, Ammonites iexanus von Bach. 

Capt. W. H. Clapp, Fort Stockton, Texas. 17407. '.%. (xiii, ab) 
Kaolin, 

Sam H. Houston, New Orleans, Louisiana. 17408. '86. (xvii) 
Nerka Salmon, Oncorhynclms nerka. 

E, G. Blackford, New York City, 17409. '86. (vii) 
Indian Painting on a deer skin. (Deposited.) 

W. W. Blake, Estacion, Mexico. 17410. '86. (n, b) 
Deposits from Geyser Springs, Saratoga, New York. 

Miss Mary E. Mann, Washington, District of Columbia. 17411, '86, (xvii) 
Rock Salt, 

American Salt Company, New Iberia, Louisiana. (Through J. G.Haskell.) 
17412, '86. (XVII) 

Cast of a fossil tooth, Elephas primigeniits, found in Kishwaukee River, near Marengo, 
Illinois. 

O. P. Rogers, Marengo, Illinois. 17413. '86. (xi) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 779 

EnixOLOGiCAL Objects: ludiaii arrow-iiiiiker's tools, otc. 

LoREX W. Grkex, Baird, Shasta County, California. 17111. '80. (ii, a) 

Batrachian, Amblystoma tenehrosum. 

LoREJi W. Greex, Baird, Shasta Connty, California. 17411. '8G. (vi) 
Insect, Slrlgamia sp., one of the so-called centipedes. 

Louex W. Green-, Baird, Shasta Connty, California. 17414. '811. (x) 

OvEX-BiRD, Seiurus aurocapillus. 

A. F.WooSTER, Norfolk, Connecticut. 17415. '86. (v,a) 

Least Bittekx, Ardctta exilis. 

lion. Edward TiiOMPSOX, United States Consul, Merida, Yucatan. 1741G. 'SG, 
(V, a) 
PncE, Esox vohilior (?). (Head.) 

I. Garrard, Frontouac, Minnesota. 17417. '6G. (vii) 
Smith axd Wkssox Revolver (six-shooter), found by a party of surveyors in the 
summer of 1883, on the Custer battle-field, near the Little lloru River, Montana. 
A relic of the Custer massacre of 187(5. 

Capt. CilA'iLES E. Bendire, U. S. A., U. S. National Museum. 17418. '8G. (i) 
Squid, Loligo pcalii Lesener; from near Cape Henry. 

GWYNN Harris, Washington, District of Columbia. 17411). '8G. (xij 

White Perch, Eoccus americanns. 

G.Wvlie, Old Orchard, Maine. 17420. 'o6. (vii) 
Star-xosed Mole, Condyhira cristata. 

A. F.WoosTER, Norfolk, Connecticut. 17421. '8li. (iv) 
Peptoxized Beef. 

W. H. McDoXALD, Washington, District of Columbia. 17122. '8G. (i) 
Medals. Gold medal of the Royal Geographical Society, l'S58, patron's medal ; gold 
medal, Victorio Emmanuelle II, 1858; gold medal, Oscar Rex Sveciai Norvvegico 
Goth, et Vandal.; bronze medal, exhibition of the works of industry of all na- 
tions, 1851. Presented to the late Professor Bache. (Deposited.) 
Natioxal Academy of Sciences. 

(Through Prof. J. II. C. Coffin, Treasurer.) 17423. '86. (i) 

Stoxe Implemexts. Thirty-six flakes, five rude chipped implements, and six frag- 
ments, apparently of leaf-shaped implements, from John's Island, at the mouth 
of Cheeshowiska River, Hernando Connty, Florida. In the letter accompanying 
these relics Mr. Willcox says: "One of the llakes contains the impression of a fos- 
sil sea-urchin, thus indicating the locality where the supply of chert-rock was 
obtained, viz, from Mason's Creole, 5 miles northwest of John's Island." 
Joseph Willcox, Media, Pennsylvania. 17424. '86. (iii) 
White Fish and Trout, from Northville, showing degrees of growth. 

Frank N. Clakk, Northville, Michigan. 17425. '86. (i) 
Plaster Cast of ideal restoration of Plesiosaurus a-amptoni. 

Museum op Science and Art, Dublin, Ireland. 1742G. '86. (vi) 
Oil Paintings, on silk, of Japanese costumes worn by girls of the merchant class. 

Mrs. G. Brown Goode, Washington, District of Columbia. 17427. '86. (ii, a) 

Colored Engraving, representing the four Hags adopted by the Confederate States, 
the State seal, and the silver half-dollar, of which only four were coined at New 
New Orleans in 1861. 
Percy Clark, Washington, District of Columbia. 17428. '86. (i) 

Marine Shells (16 species, 50 specimens), mostly from the West Indies. 

Mrs. C.H.Dall, Washington, District of Columbia. 17429. '86. (ix) 



780 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Table Utensils. Fork, spoon, and chopsticks of bulTalo lioru. 

William H. Dall, U. S. Geological Survey. 17430. '80. (ii,a; 

Fish. Micropterus dolomiei ai.d Ambloplites rupeslris, from Fairniount, West Virginia. 
U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, District of Columbia. 17431. '80. (vii) 
Quill Pen, used by General La Fayette at the Masonic lodge, Fredericksburgh, Vir- 
ginia, during his visit to the United States in 1824 as the " guest of the nation." 
(Deposited.) 

Mrs. R. B. Shackelford, Washingr.ou, District of Columbia. 17432. '80. (i) 

Tin Candle Molds, employed in domestic industry in America jirior to 1860, and 
still somewhat in use in the rural districts. 

Mrs. G. Brown GooDE, Washington, District of Columbia. 17433. '86. (ii,a) 

Rocks, from Pennsylvania. 

Henry J. Biddle. 17434. '86. (xvii) 
Gold Medal, presented to Professor Baird by the Department of Fish Cultui-e of 
the Lower Seine, France. (Deposited.) 

Professor Spencer F. Baikd, Washington, District of Columbia. 17435. '86 (i 

Drawing of a species of Cobiiis, by a Chinese artist, Ningpo, 1859. 

Dr. D. B. McCartke, Washington, District of Columbia. 17436. '86. (vii) 
Snail Shell. Helix hortensis L. Imported. The locality is new for this species. 

J H. Morrison, Lexington, Virginia. 17437. '86. (ix) 
Terrapin, Cinesternum pennsylvanicum, from Hatteras, North Carolina. 

F. W. True, U. S. National Museum. 17438. '86. (v) 

Reptiles. Gerrhonotm cwrulcus, and Pityophis sp., from Butte County, California. 
H.W.Turner, San Francisco, California. 17439. '86. (vi) 

Pearl taken from Veni(.i mercenaria. 

G. W WoLTZ, U. S. National Museum. 17440. '86. (ix) 

Opera Hat, Chapeau-claque, Berlin, Germany, 1880. 

G. Brown GoODE, U. S. National Museum. 17441. '86. (ii,a) 
Damascus Sword and eight ivory-and-gold-mounted knives of Arab manufacture, 
from Muscat. Presented to Commodore Shufeldt I>y the Sultan of Zanzibar. 
Commodore R. W. Shufeldt, U.S. Navy, Wa.shington, District of Columhia. 
17442. '66. (I) 
Milk Sugar (3 samples), from Germany and Switzerland. 

Department OF State, Washington, District of Columbia. 17443. '86. (i) 
Baird's Dolphin, Dclphinus dclpliis (skull), from Monterey, California; whalebone of 
California Gray Whaki; Ehachianccics (/laucus, from San Luis Obispo. 
C. H. Townseno, U. S. Fish Commis.sion. 17444. '80. ' (xii) 
Porpoise, Turs:ops tursio (skulls), from North Carolina. 

Wilmington Oil and Leather Works, Wilmington, North Carolina. 17445. 
'SG. (XII ; 
Oil of Peppermint, "White Crystal," and one bottle of Pipmeuthol. 

W. S. Thompson, Wa.'^hington. 17446. '86. (i) 
Trenton Fossils (2,183 specimens) from Nevada. 

U. S. Gkoh)GICal Sup.vey, Washington, District of Columhia. 17447. '86. 

(XIII, A) 

Devonian Invkuterrate Fossils (213 specimens). 

U. S. Gkological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia. 17448. '86. 
(xiii, a) 
Peruvian Needles (2), from Florida. 

Henry Weidenbach, Washington, District of Columbia. 17449. '80. (ii, a) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 781 

Stone Implement and tbree arrow-heads, found iu Fairfax County, Georgia. 

Henry Weidenbach, Washington, District of Columbia. 17449. '8(j. (iii) 
Coin. Confederate half-dollar in white metal struck from orii^inal die nuido at New 
Orleans iu 18G2. 

Alexandeu Scott, Washington, District of Columbia. 17450. '80. (i) 

Confederate Paper Money. 

Four five-dollar bills. 

Eight ton-dollar bills. 

Two twenty-dollar bills. 
Dr. William Overton, Stoney Creek, Virginia. 17451. '86. (i) 
Confederate Paper Money. 

Five-dollar bill, 18G4. 

Two ten-dollar bills, 18G4. 

Two twenty-dollar bills, 18C4. 

Seventy-five cents, corporation of Danville, 18(51. 

Twenty cents, Bedford County, Virginia, 18G2. 

Fifteen cents, Augusta County, Virginia, 18G2. 

Thirty cents, city of Richmond, 18G2. 

Twenty-five cents, North Carolina, 18G2. 
Normajn V. Randolph, Richmond, Virginia. 17452. '80. (i) 
Paper Money. Uu real, El Banco Provincial de Santa F6, Rosario, i de Noviombro 

1874. 

Un peso. La Provincia de Buenos Ayres, Moncda Corriente, 1869. 

Diez y seis centisimos fiiertes, Uu Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Ayres, 18G9. 
Robert R. Edgar, Estacion Burzaco, Buenos Ayres, South America. 174515. 

'86. (I) 
Military Pass to Alexandria, dated Washington, IMay 26, 1864, and oath of allegiance 

to the United States, dated May 3, 1865. 
William B. Cooper, U. S. National Museum. 17454. '85. (i) 

Papel Money, etc. 

Spanish dollars, 177G and 1777. 
Continental dollars, 1776 and 1778. 
State currency of Tennessee and Mississippi. 

Confederate paper money, coupon bonds, and certificates (.31 specimens). 
Mrs. E. Reekie, Washington, District of Columbia. 174.55. '86. (i) 

Madrepore Marble. 

Charles City Marble Company', Charles City, Iowa. (Through J. S. Trigg.) 
17456. '86. (xvii) 
Wine Flasks (picolo), from Italy 

George H. Boi^iiimer, Smithsonian Institution. 17457. '86. (it, a) 
Saw-fish, Frislis cuspidalus, (blade), from Madras, India. 

William II. Dall, U. S. Geological Survey 17458. '86. (vii) 
Ethnological Objects. Four water-brushes, pair of slippers, from India; cap, 
woven sasket made by the Rogue Indians, Oregon ; ladies satchel, from Canton, 
China. 
W II. Dall, U. S National Museum. 17458. '86. (vii) 
Bi.ACK Bear, Ursns americanm. 

Dr. W. W. Godding, Government Asylum for the Insane, Washington, District 
of Columbia. 17459. '86. (iv) 

SWLSS luEX, Oapra ibex, Liun6 (skin of head, and skeleton). 

ZooLO(HCAL Society of Philadelphia, Piiiladelphia, Pennsylvania. 17460 

'til). (IV) 



782 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSLUM, 1886. 

Prayer-book, usod by the army and navy of tlio CoufecTerate States, printed at 
Richmond, I860. 
Dr. R. A. Brock. Richmond, Virginia. 17461. '86. (i) 
Stone Carving, of Egyptian scarabseus, obtained at Thebes, 1H64 ; also a piece of 
wall-paper one hundred and twenty-five years old. 

William H. Dall, U. S. Geological Survey. 17462. '86. (11, a) 
Steel Engraving. Original steel-plate engraving of Trumbull's Washington, talicn 
from Yale College portrait, 1 steel-roll, 1 steel plate, "the transfer." (Deposited). 
Ten proofs taken fi-om the above j)lates, four proofs of the American eagle, show- 
ing four stages of the engraver's work, and one sheet of gelatine tracing-paper. 
(Presented). 
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Washington, D. C. 17463. '86. (i) 
Key to the old War Department Building. 

Mrs. Alice Camp, Washington, D. C. 17464. '86. (i) 
Bird Skins. Four species, among them Brachyramplms perdix Pall, hitherto con- 
founded with B. marmoratus, from Kamtschatka. (Exchange.) 
Dr. L, Stejneger. U. S. National Museum. 17465. '66. (V, A) 
Oil from tlie stomach of Eulamiamilherti, taken oil" Cape Hatteras. 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington, D. C. 17466. '86. (1) 
Papal Military Medal, bronze, 1849. 

George H. Boehmer, Smithsonian Institution. 17467. '85. (i) 
Insect, Telea polyphemus, for examination. 

M. LooMis, Terra Alta, Preston County, West Virginia. 17408. '86. (x) 
Drugs, from New Grenada ; for examination. 

Frederick Stearns & Co., Detroit, Michigan. 17469. '86. (i) 
Eed-bellied Terrapin, Chelopus insculptus. 

George H. Tolbeiit, Battery Station, Havre do Grace, Maryland. 17470.. 
'86. (VI) 
Indian Implement, Cast of. An alligator-shaped object of white jasxiery flint. 

C. Armstrong, CarroUton, 111. 17471. '86. (iii) 
Snow-shoes, used in the Adirondack Mountains. (Deposited.) 

Capt. Charles E. Bkndire, U. S. A., U. S. National Museum. 17472. '86. 

(II, A.) 

Chinese Stockings (one pair). 

Miss DOLLIE Leech, Washington, D. C. 17473. '86. (11, a) 

Fossils, including representations of 44 species of well-preserved fossils. 

H. C. Powers, Beloit, Wis. 17474. '86. (xiii, a) 
Owl, Biiho virgiuiamis, a very fine si»ecimcn in unusually dark" plumage. 

A. F. WoosTER, Norfolk, Connecticut. 17475. '86. (v, a) 
Garnet, of the variety coloplionite, an interesting occurrence. 

Otto E. Reimer, Santiago de Cuba. (Through Department of State.) 17476. 
'86. (XVI) 
Shaly Rock, for examination. 

Dr. W. S. Overton, Stony Creek, Virginia. 17477. '86. (xvii) 

Minerals. 

George P Merrill, U. S. National Museum. 17478. '86. (xvi) 

Tourmaline in Quartz. 

Prof. Tho.mas Robinson, Howard University, Washington, District of Colum- 
bia. 17470 '86. (XVI) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 783 

Book. "Laws of Virginia in fonic, iu IHOi." 

Prof. G.Bkown GooDK, U.S. National Musciiiii. 174«U. '80. (?) 
Mexican Plaxts, a A%alnablo collection. 

E. WiLKixsox, Mansfield, Oiiio. 174>;l. '86. (xv) 
Bleaciiei) Shellac and Button lac. 

Dennison Maxufactuuixg Company, l'Liiladfl[>bia, Pennsylvania. 17482. 
'86. (I) 
Fishes, Pollachius, Gadas, Pht/cis, Llparin, Cydoptevus, Cotlm and Sijnodus juv. 

VinalN. Edwards, Wood's Holl, Massachnsotts. 17483. 86. (vii) 
Twigs and Leaves of sugar-bearing oak, from McCloud River, California. 

Livingston Stone, Dublin, Now Hampsbire. 17484. '86. (ii) 
Gkayhound, Canis familiaris, iu the flesh. 

Dr. Emil P>essels, Wasliiugton, District of Columbia. 17485. 'S6. (xii) 
Lizard, Oplieosaanis ventralis, from Orangeburgb, South Carolina. 

U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, District of Columbia. 17486. '86. 

(XI) 

Young Alligator. Don or not known. 17487. '86. (xii) 

Roseate Spoonbill, Ajaja njaja, Florida Screech Owl, Soops Jloridanas, and Mar- 
bled Godwit, Liinosafedoa, from Thousand Isles, Florid.a. 
E. C. Greenwood, Osprey, Florida. 17488. 'Hf;. (v, a) 
Nest op Ruby-throated IIumming-Biud, Trovldlus colubria Lilnn. 

George L. Meazell, Middlebrook, Montgomery County, Maryland. 17489. 
'86. (BB) 
Fossil Wood, from the new reservoir near Howard University, District of Columbia. 

John Watson, Washington, District' of Columbia. 17490. '86. (xv) 
Baskets made by the Indians of Lachine Village near Montreal ; also a small collec- 
tion of beads from India, used by the poorer classes. 
WilliamH.Dall, U. S. Geological Survey. 17491. '66. (ii, a) 

Fossil Plants, from Allegany County, New York. 

William H. Dall, U. S. Geological Survey. 17491. 'Sii. (xiv) 
Iron Ore, probably from Lake Superior region. 

William H. Dall, U. S. Geological Survey. 17491. ''ill (xviii) 
Ore containing gray material ; for examination. 

" Max Mey'EKS, Sheridan, Montana Territory. 1749:2. '86. (xviii) 
Tetkadymite, for examination. 

Busil AND Meyers, Sheridan, Montana Territory. 1749:>. '6{'). (xvill) 
"Glow Worm," Fhengodes ; for examination. 

J. W. A. Wright, Grecnsborough, Alabama. 17494. '86. (x) 

Gold-bearing Rocks, for examination. 

M. W. Whatley, Idaho, Ahibama. 1749-3. '86. (xviii) 
Horned Owls f necks aud tongues of two specimens), for examination. 

Charles Ruby, Fort D. A. Russell, Wyoming. 17496. '86. (xij 
Gophers, Spcrmophihis richardsoni and Thomomi/s talpoides (skins). 

Charles Ruby, Fort D. A. Russell, Wyoming. 17496. 'SiS. (iv) 
Fossil Wood and Berries, from South Carolina. 

U. S. Geological Survey, Wasliington, District of Columbia. (Through 
Frank Burns.) 17497. 'Si), (xiv) 
MULLEUS (2), from Orangeburgh, SontJi Carolina. 

U. S. Geological .'ukvey, Washington, District of Columbia. (Through 
Frank Burns.) 17497. .'86. (i) 



784 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886 

Tiles from Hollaml ; hiickH fidiu a. coiner -stone of the oUl conrt-hoiiso in Orange- 
burgh, South Carolina. 

U. S. Gkoi.ogical Suuvev, Washiugton, District of Columbia. (Through 
Frank Burns ) 17497. '86. (i) 

Blenhkim SrANiEi,. (Deposited.) 

Hou. Tiios.W. Palmer, Washington, District of Columbia. 17498. '86. (iv) 

Oil, from Costa Rica. 

TiNOCO & VoLio, San Jos6, Costa Rica. (Through Felipe Chamberlain.) 
17499. '86. (I) 
KixG Rail, liallus elegans {head and foot), for examination, 

Junius P. Leach, Rusbville, Illinois. 17500. '86. (xii) 
Minerals, for examination. 

Charles Miller, Jr., Sanborn, New York. 17.501. '86. (xvi) 

American Hercules Beetle, Dynastes iityus. 

Dr. J. S. Hunter, Paragould, Green County, Arkansas. 17502. '86. (x) 
Minerals, from Washington Territory. 

John J. Burns, Sprague, Lincoln County, Washington Territory. 17503. '86. 
(XVI) 
Ores, from West Virginia. 

Timothy Niiion, Hedgesville, Berkeley County, West Virginia. 17504. 'S'o. 

(XVIIl) 

Quartz and impure siderite, black band iron ore, for examination. 

Hon. W. L. Wilson, House of Representatives. 17505. '86. (xviii) 
Manganese Ore, for examination. 

H. W. H. James, Fort Reno, Texas. ■ 17506. '86. (xviii) 
LiMONiTE, brown iron ore, impure limonite, and bog-iron ore. 

Henry C.Moyer, Hilltown,Peuusylvania. 17507. '86. (xviii) 
Bird Skins, for examination. 

William Brewster, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 17508. '86. (v, a) 
Shell. Lucina acutUineafa Conr.,from Washington Territory. 

H.E.DORE, Portland, Oregon. 17509. '86. (xvi) 
Dolomite, from San Luis Obispo, California. 

H. E. DoRE, Portland, Oregon. 17509. '86. (xvi) 
Fossils, for examination. 

H. E. DoRE, Portland, Oregon. 17509. '86. (x) 
Shell, Uiiio metanevnis, from Neosho River, Kansas, for examination. 

Dr. W. S. Newlon, Oswego, Kansas. 17510. '86. (ix) 
Crude Petroleum (surface). 

C. L. Mitchell, Eagle Pass, Texas. 17511. '86. (xviii) 

Sea Snail, Liparis lineata. 

W. Herrick, Swan's Island, Maine. 17512. '86. (vii) 

Brass Idol, from Japan. 

A. F. WoosTER, Norfolk, Connecticut. 17513. '86. (ii, a) 
Brown Grease, for examination. 

T. M. Ware & Co., Boston, Massachusetts. 17514. '8(;. (i) 
Powdered Ore. 

C. CONOVER, El Dorado Canon, Lincoln County, Nevada. 1751.5. '86. (xvill) 
LiMONiTH and schistose rock, for examination. 

Joseph Hoffstettkr, Grangeville, Idaho. 17516. '86. (xviii) 
Stone used in playing an Indian game called "Chungkee." 

Mrs. Elling Shuping, Nokomis, Illinois. 17517. '86. (xii) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 785 

Twigs iujiirod by the Wooly Aphis, Schizonenra lanljcra. 

J. B. RosBOROUGir, Salt Like City, Utah. 1751S. '8(3. ( s) 

Fossil Plaxt, probably a part of tbo stem of StUjmaria. 

Mrs. Julia L. SixKS, Giddiiigs, Lee County, Texas. 17r>i;). '8(), (s.iv) 

Fossil Shells, SplxKrium snicalum and Limncm caperla, for cxamioathiu. 
ROBEKT Hay, Juuctiou City, Kansas. 17520. ^SQ. (x) 

Stone Axe. (Eetiirned.) 

Dr. John J. Fullmer, Philadelphia, Pcuusylvauia. 17521. 'SG. (in) 

Gau-fish, Leindosteiis sp. (scales). 

Eer. C. M. Caldwell, Hopkiiisville, Christiausburgh, Kentucky. 17522. '86. 

(VII) 

Ores, for examination. 

N. W. Mood, Leavenworth, Indiana. 1752:5. '8o. (xviii) 
Sea Mouse, Aphrodite aculeata, for examination. 

W. W. Hall, Orleans, Massachusetts. 17524. 'dG. (xi) 

Garnet Rock, for examination. 

Fred L. Lewis, Moriah, Essex County, New York. 17525. 'riG. (xvi) 

Stone Implement, for examination. 

Miss Mollie Ozella Swint, Graham, AUibauia. 1752G. 'do. (iii) 

Lizard, for examination. 

W.C. Allen, Ellijay, Georgia. 17527. '80. (vi) 

Stone Axe, for examination. 

T. S. Easley, Ceutroville, Tennessee. 17528. '80. (ii) 
Gold-fish, Carassius auratas, from Potomac River. 

Charles Wallace, FredericksburgU, Virginia. 1752U. '80. (Vii) 
Gypsum, with other sulphates, and calcite, for examination. 

W. F. Wilson, Daggett, California. 17530. '80. (xviii) 
WOOD-R.AT. Neotoma Jtoridana. 

G. Noble, Savannah, Georgia. 17531. '80. (iv) 
Stone Pipe, from Mercer County, Kentucky. (Returned.) 

11. W. Mercer, Cincinnati, Ohio. 17532. '80. (iii) 
Sandstone with scales of white mica, for examination. 

S. S. Mitchell, Columbus, Mississippi. 17533. '80. (xvii) 
Common Shrew Mouse, Blarina talpoides (4 specimens), for examination. 

L. H. Smith, Strathroy, Ontario, Canada.. 17.534. '8i;. (iv) 
Pyrite in Quartz, from Rock Creek, District of Columbia, for examination. 

D. H. McPherson, Washington, District of Columbia. 17535. '80. (xviii) 

CllEWINK (Towhee), Fipilo erylhyophthalmm Linn, for examination. 
James W. ROGAN, Rogersville, Tennessee. 17530. '80. (y, a) 

Ores, for examination. 

O. Whitcomb, Leavenworth, Indiana. 17537. '8(5. (xviii) 

Bird Skin. Borrowed for examination and rerurued. 

CiNCiNXATi Society of Natural History, Cincinnati, Ohio. 17538. '80. 
(V, a) 
Bird Skin, for examination. 

W. C. Knight, Lincoln, Nebraska. 17.539. 'SO. (V, a) 
Ore, fur examination. 

C. P. McGiMSEY, Arkadelphia, Arkansas. 17540 '80. (xviii) 

Scales of glistening mica. 

Hon. John H. Rogers, House of Ropi'esentatives. 17541. 'SO. (xviii) 
H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 50 



17542. 


'86, 


■ (I) 


'86. 


(X) 




7544. 


'86. 


(XVIll) 



786 RKPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Bark, for examination. 

George M. Rand, Nortli Park, Larimer County, Colorado. 
American Hercules Beetle, Dijnastes tilijus. 

R. M. Miller and Sons, Charlotte, North Carolina. 17543. 
Ork, for examination. 

Mrs. Irene S. Cowles, Medford, Jackson County, Oregon, 17544. 
Ore, for examination. 

Hon, I. G. Harris, United. States Senate. 17545. '86. (xviii) 
Bean Weavils. Bruchus ohsoletus, for examination. 

R. J. Haight, Davenport, Iowa. 17546. '86. (x) 
Stone Disk, sword-shaped object, and chipped implement, from Humphreys County, 
Tennessee. (Returned.) 

Edward D. Hicks, Nashville, Tennessee. 17547. '86. (in) 
Bird Skins, for examination. (Returned.) 

Dr. P. L, SCLATER, London, England. 17548. '86. (V, a) 
Rock, for examination. 

D. W. Savage & Co., Dayton, Washington Territory. 17549. '86. (xvii) 

Bird Skins. (Returned.) 

George N. Lawrence, New York, New York. 17.550. '86. (v, a) 

Great Water-bug, BcJostoma americana. 

Joseph A. Haywood, Raleigh, North Carolina. 17551. '86. (x) 
Fossil Plants, from Mosquito Valley, Pennsylvania. 

John C. Hammer, Williamsport, Pennsylvania. 17552. '86. (xiv) 
Fossil, Orthoceras sp., from Neosho River, for examination. 

Dr. W. S. Newlon, Oswego, Kansas. 17553. '66. (xiii, a) 
Great Water-bug, Belostoma americana, for examination. 

C. B. Edwards, Raleigh, North Carolina. 17554. '86. (x) 
Great American Water-bug, Belostoma americana, and a Cyhisferfimbriolatus. 

N. A. Ramsey, Durham, North Carolina. 17555. '86. (x) 
Great Water-bug, Belostoma americana, for examination. 

W. S. Primrose, Raleigh, North Carolina. 17556. '86. (x) 
Quartz and chloritic material, for examination. 

C. Overman, Grangeville, Idaho. 17557. '86. (xviii) 
White-footed Oyster Catcher, Hwrnatopus lencopus, for examination. 

American Museum of Natural History, New York, New York. 17558. '86. 

(V,A) 

Insects, for examination. 

Mrs. H. K. Morrison, Morgautown, North Carolina. 17559. '86. (x) 

Marl, for examination. 

J. F. Bumbalougit, Shingle, White County, Tennessee. 17560. '86. (xviii) 

Ore, for examination. 

Mrs. Irene S. Cowles, Medford, Oregon. 17561. '86. (xviii) 

Magnesite, for examination. 

Hon. W. S. Rosecrans, Washington, District of Columbia. 17562. '86. 
(xviii) 

Arrow-heads. (Returned.) 

R. W. Mercer, Ciucinnati, Ohio. 17563. '86. (in) 

Sand, consisting of rounded grains of quartz, for examination. 

Hon. E. Barksdale, House of Ropreseutatives. 17564. 'SG. (xviii) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 787 

Downy Petrel, JEnirelata mollis (niouutod speciiiieujs). 

Academy of Natukal Sciences, Phihidelpliiii, Pcmisylvaiua. 17r>65. '8G. 

(V,A) 

Kabbit, Lepiis si/lvaticiis, for examiuatiou. (Koturuod.) 

F. W. Cragix, Topeka, Kansas. 17566. '80. (iv) 
Black-capped Petrel, JE^trelata hwsitata and Wbibe-footod Oyster Catcher, Ilwma- 
topus Icucojjus, for examination. 

Boston Society of Natural History, Bostou, Massaclinsetts. 175G7. '86. 
(v,a) 
Insects, Buprcstis lauta, for examination. 

R. M. King, llawtliorne, Nevada. 175(>8. '86. (x) 
Great Water-bug, Belosioma amerioana. 

Post-Office Department, Washington, District of Coliiiubia. 1756L). '86. (x) 

Crinoid Fossil, joint or phxte of the supporting column of a crinoid. 

W, Edgar Taylor, College Springs, Iowa. 17570. '86. (xiii, a) 
Fiber and bark of Hibiscus moscheutos L., for examination. 

Harvey C. Medford, Tupelo, Mississippi. 17571. '86. (xv) 

Ore, from Sonora, Mexico. (Returned.) 

W. Johnson, Tucson, Arizona. 17572. '86. (xviii) 
Red-backed Junco, Junco cineretis dorsalis, and Arizona J unco, J unco cinereus pal- 
liatus, for examination. 

American Museum of Natural History, New York City. 17573. 'tiii. (v, a) 
Silk Culture Exhibit, displayed at New Orleans Exposition. 

Women's Silk-Cultural Association, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 17574. 
'86. (I) 
Ores, for examination. 

R. E. Cook, Alpine, Talladega County, Alabama. 17575. '86. (xviii) 
Common Gray Squirrel, Sciurus caroUnensis (3 specimens), for examination. 

Oliver Mercy, Northwestern University, Evestou, Illinois. 17576. 'Sd. (iv) 

Mat Roller, Hot Springs, Arkansas. 17577. '86. (x) 
Seed of Agrostis sp. 

Mat Roller, Hot Springs, Arkansas. 17578. 'S6. (xv) 
Impure Limestone, for examination. 

John K. Scott, Mount Lee, Hernando County, Florida. 1757L). '86. (xvu) 
Jute, Cotton, and other vegetable fibers, for examination. 

Reuben Brooks, Gloucester, Massachusetts. 17580. 'S^i. (i) 
Spicule, from the stomach of a Red-thi-oated Diver, for examiiuition. 

Dr. E. Sterling, Cleveland, Ohio. 17581. '86. (vii) 
Polyphemus Moth, Tclca pohjphemus. 

J. S.Webb, Hicksford, Virginia. 17582. 'Si), (x) 
Insect, Amnesia granicollis. 

R. D. Nevins, Olympia, Washington Territory. 17583. '6G. (x) 

Stone Relics (625 specimens). (Purchased.) 

G.W.Clements, Midway, Boone County, Missoui-i. 17.584. '86. (i) 

Stone Relics. (Returned.) 

J. R. NissLEY, Mansfield, Ohio. 17585. '86. (iii) 
Mineral, for examination. 

Harvey C. Medford, Tupelo, Mississippi. 17586. '8(). (xvi) 
Ore, for examination. 

William Craig, Payson, Arizona. 17587. 'S^i. ;xviii) 



7«8 KEPOKT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Iron Pyrites, for examination. 

JOHX W. McGee, Seattle, Washington Territory. 17588. '8G. (xvi) 
Stone Idol, clay idol, stone implements, and pottery, for examination. 

T. L. Whitehead, Dexter, Missouri. 17589. '86. (iii) 
NocTuuNAL Hawk Moth, Triptigon modesta. 

Col. A. G. Bkackett, U. S. Army, Fort Davis, Texas. 17500, '86. (x) 
Coal, for examination. 

Hon. W. S. Rosecrans, Washington, District of Columbia. 17.591. '86. 
Iron Pyrites, for examination. 

E. H. POE, Hatton, Polk County, Arkansas. 17592. '86. (xvi) 
Carolina Sphinx, Sphinx Carolina. 

John S. Webb, Totaro, Virginia. 17593. '86. (x) 
Silicate of Alumina, with carbonate of lime, for examination. 

William R. May, Nephi, Juab County, Utah. 17594. '86. (xvi) 
Ferruginous Clay, from Wheelcrsville, Pennsylvania. 

R. P. Janney', Washington, District of Columbia. 17595. '80. (xviii) 
Coins, Greek and other ancient, and mediaival countries (177 specimens), for exam- 
ination. 

Miles W. Graves, Hartford Connecticut, 17596, '86. (i) 
White Quartz, for examination. 

W. W. Whatley, Idaho, Clay County, Alabama. 17597. '86. (xvi) 
Ferruginous Sandstone (decomposed), for examination. 

Michael Dooley, Louaconing, Maryland. 17598. '83. (xviii) 
Insect, for examination. 

B, F, Stalker, New Providence, Indiana. 17599, '86 (x) 
Dwarf Milkweed, Asclepias verticellata L., for examination. 

Dr. R. M. Wells, Plant City, Florida, 17600. '86. (i) 

Iron Ore. 

L. W. Ledy^\rd, Cazenovia, New York. 17601. '86. (xviii) 

Plant: Specimens of Ginkgo, Ginlcgo biloha Ij., from China. 

H. L. Fisher, Ringoes, Hunterdon County, New Jersey. 17G0-i. '86. (xv) 

Mineral, for examination. 

B. A. Shepley, Des Arc, Iron County, Missouri. ll'Mi. '86. (xvi) 
Ferruginous Sandstone (decomposed), for examination. 

Michael Dooley, Lonacouing, Maryland. 17604. '86. (xvii) 
Mastodon, Elephas sp., bones and teeth found 30 feet below the ground, for examina- 
tion. 
Dr. A. G. Chase, Millwood, Kansas, 17605, '86. (iv) 

Fossil Tooth, for examination, 

S. J. Kirkpatrick, Jonesboro, Tennessee. 17606. '86. (viii.) 
Fossil Tooth, molar of Mastodon amerioanus, for examination. (Returned.) 

E. W. Spaulding, Shasta, California. 17607. '86. (viii) 
Moth, Actias liina, for examination. 

H. C. Buhl, College Hill, Ohio. 17608. '81J. (x) 
Decomposed Rocks, for examination. 

C. N, Earl, Los Angeles, California. 17609. '86. (xviii) 
Minerals, for examination. 

R. H. Potter, Riverside, California. 17610. '86. (xvi) 

Mica Schist, for examination. 

Julius Scherr, Eglon, West Virginia, 17611. 'SG. (xvi) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 789 

Pyiiitk, for oxaiuiuaiioii. 

D. J. McDonald, Arkadolpliia, Arkansas. ITtil'i. 'dtj. (xvii) 

Anciknt Coins, for examiuatiou. 

Milks W. Graves, Hartford, Coauecticnt. 17(U:?. '»<;. (i) 
Quartz Pebbles ; also oiiuute aud wator-worn fragiueuts of (quartz and feldspar, for 
examination. 

F. A. SCHEFFLER, Oraugeburgb, South Carolina. 17614. '86. (xvi) 
I.vsEcrs, Attas insulus and Phalangiiim sp.,for examination. 

John L. Curtis, Oakland, California. 17615. '86. (x) 
Insects, for examination. From Boj^ota, New Granada. 

Frederick Stearns &. Co., Detroit, Michigan. 17616. 'SG. (x) 

Bird Skins, for examination. 

Frederick Stearns & Co., Detroit, Michigan. 17616. ^SG. (v, a) 
Calcite aud impure manganiferous iron ore, for examination. 

J. F. Bumbelougu, Shingle, White County, Tennessee. 17617. '86. (xvi) 
Plant, flower of Helianthus sp. 

.Tames W. Rogan, Rogersville, Tennessee. 17618. 'SG. (xv) 
Antiquitiks. The Fisher collection of Mexican antiquities, consisting of obsidian 
flakes and ores, arrow and spear heads, cutlasses, celts, pendants, iron pyrites, 
stone carvings, stone cylinder, spindle-whorls, musical instruments, pipes, etc. 
(6:?3 specimens). (Purchased.) 
W. W. Blake, Kansas City, Missouri. 17619. '86. (iii) 
Water, for examination. 

E. Morgan, Midlothian, Ellis County, Texas. 17620. '6v>,- (xvii) 
Pottery. Indian vases (24) found in mounds. (Purchased.) 

W. .J. Baker, Golden Lake, Arkansas. 17621. '86. (ii,i{) 
Plant, Hiidrorotijle repanda, from Mississippi, for examinaticm. 

lion. .James Z. George, U. S. Senate. 17622. '86. (xv) 
Mineral, for examination. 

Joseph Upton, Charleston, North Carolina. 17623. '86. (xvi) 
Pottery (.3 pieces). String of beads and bone implements. 

Landon and McConnell, Lawrence, Kansas. 17624. '86. (ii,b) 
Concretions (15), from Fort Custer, Mont. (Deposited.) 

Capt. Charles E. Bendire, U. S. A., U. S. National Museum. 17625. 'SG. (iii) 

Swainson's Warbler, Helinaia swainsoni. 

T. D. Perry, Savannah, Georgia. 17626. '86. (v, a) 
White Bricks, supposed to be one hundred and fifty years old; among tlie first made 
in South Caroliua. 

Dr. Salley aud Mr. Riggs, Oraugeburgb, SouLh Carolina. 17627. W). (i) 
Insect, Lucanus elephas. 

Mrs. Richard Carter, Cloverport, Kentucky. 17628. 'SC>. (x) 
Mineral, for examination. 

T.J. TuRi'iN, Grangeville, Idaho. 1762'.t. 'SG. (xvi) 

Globular Pyrites in limestone. 

Dr. G. P. ILvCHKNiJERG, Austin, Texas. (Throuj^h Dr. J. S. Billings, U. S. A.) 
17630. '86. (XVI) 
Gila Monster, Helodcnna saspectmi. 

Maj. Anson Mills, Fort Thomas, Arizona, 17631. ^SG. (vi) 

Horned Toads, Phri/noHoma voronatum (15 specimens). (Purchased.) 
Miss Rosa SMirii, San Diego, California. 176;'>2. '8i;. (vi) 



790 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886 

Game of Battlkdork and Shuttlecock. 

Henry Horan, U. S. National Museum. 17633. '86. (ii, a) 
Map of Tokyo : 10 volumes of a work ou the natural products of Japan", by Dr. Ito 
Keiski, and a scroll containing an inscription upon a stone tablet commemorating 
the repairs on the temple of Chdng Hwang Mean, with a translation by the donor. 
Dr. D.B.McCAETEE,Washiugtou, District of Columbia. 17634. '8:3. (ii, a) 

Cedar Bark Beetle, Pholocosinus dentatus. 

Warren Knaus, Selina, Kansas. 17635. '86. (x) 
Larva of Polycaon conferlus ; also work of the larva. 

L. E. Ricksecker, Sylvauia, California. 17636. '86. (x) 

Larva oi Pseplienus haldemanni. 

Feed L. Button, Oakland, California. 17637. '86. (x) 

Amber containing insects (15 specimens), from the Baltic Sea. (Exchange.) 

West Prussian Provincial Museum, Danzig, Prussia. 17638. '86. (xvi) 

Minerals, for examination. 

E. H. POE, Hatton, Polk County, Arkansas. 17639. '86. (xvi) 
Scott's Oriole, Icterus parisorum (skeleton). 

J. B. Bowman, Aleman, New Mexico. 17640. '83. (xii) 

Photographs of Indian implements. 

H. G. Hodge, York, Clark County, Illinois. 17641. '86. (iii) 
Horned Toads, Phrynosoma coronatum (5 specimens). (Purchased.) 

Miss Rosa Smith, San Diego, California. 17642. '86. (vi) 

Coal, for examination. 

R. Jacob We [SB ACH,Tacoma, Washington Territory. 17643. '86. (xviii) 

Barred Owls, Syrnium nebulosum, from Montgomery County, Maryland. 

John P. Hamlin, Washington, District of Columbia. 17644. '86. (v, a) 

Great Horned Owl, Bubo virginianm Gm., from Colorado. 

Col. James Stevenson, Washington, District of Columbia. 17645. '86. ( v, a) 

Elk Skull and antlers, Cervus canadensis. 

Hon. L.Q.C. Lamar, Washington, District of Columbia. 17646. '86. (iv) 

Insect, Gryllotalpa sp. 

John Price, Nevada, Ohio. 17647. '86. (x) 
Drawings and copy of a description of the Temple of B6r6 Boudour, in the Island of 
Java. 

Netherlands Government. (Through Department of State.) 17648. '86. 

(II, A) 

Casts of stone relics. An unfinished ceremonial ax, from Shelby County, Ohio, and 
a boat-shaped object, from Grant County, Indiana. 
J. R. NISSLKY, Mansfield, Ohio. 17649. '86. (in) 
Oolite (3 specimens), from Bath, England. 

Samuel Gardner, Washington, District of Columbia. 17650. '86. (xvii) 

Aztec Whistle, from Mexico. 

Mrs. M. E. Brown, Orange, New Jersey. 17651. '86. (i) 

Sturgeon's Head. 

E. G. Blackford, New York City. 17652. '86. (xii) 

Horned Toads, Phrynosoma coronatum (40 specimens). (Purchased.) 

Miss Rosa Smith, San Diego, California. 176.'>3. '86. (vi) 
Carib Stones, four celts and thirty-oue axes. 

L. GUESDE, Pointe-ii-Pitre, Guadeloupe. 176.54. 86. (iii) 

Shell Fish-hook, from Vancouver Island. 

Stephen Janus, Washington, District of Columbia. 17655. '86. (u, a) 



V 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 7!>1 

Baskets, maile of bircli-bark, wood, and grass, from tlio I'assaiiLUiuodily Indians, 
Maine. 
Mrs. Fannie Pattangalx, Washington, District of Columbia. 17656. '86. 

(11, A) 

PiiOTOGliAPUS of the presoat Emporor and Empress of Japan. (Deposited.) 

Dr. D. B. McCautee, Washington, District of Columbia. 176r)7. ^SC>. (ii,a) 

Pottery, and a fragment of bones and teeth. 

Osceola Butler, Adamsville, Tennessee. 176.")8. '86. (ii,b) 

Black-footed Ferret, rutorim nu/ripes (skeletons.) (Purchased.) 

A. B. Baker, Banner, Trego County, Kansas. 17659. 'S(^. (xii) 
Black-footed Ferret, Futorhis nigrlpcs. (Purchased.) 

A. B. Baker, Banner, Trego County, Kansas. 17650. ^i^Ct. (iv) 
Snake, Hetcrodon pJatyrhinus. 

J. H. Kueiiling, Washington, District of Columbia. 17660. 'S\j. (vi) 
Sealing Wax. Additional specimens to accession 17367. 

Dennison Manufacturing Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 17661. 
'86. (I) 
Chestttot-le.^f Roller, probably the work of a curculinoid, allied to atteJabus. 

S. R. Harrison, Clarksburgh, West Virginia. 17662. '86. (x) 
Indian Relics. Pottery (61 pieces), two sinkers, one pestle, three gouges, arrow- 
heads (6 pieces), three needles, and a polishing-stone, for examination. 
F. L. Becker, Schoharie, New York. 17663. 'Sij. (ii, b) 
Volcanic Tufa, bearing foot-tracks, from Nicaragua. 

W.W.Evans, Sans Souci, New Rochelle, New York. 17664. '86. (iii) 
Mammal Skins, Halmatwrus ruficolUs, Phascolarctos cinereiis, Belidews hrevlceps, Pha- 
langista vulpina, from New South Wales ; ThylaeiHus ciinocephaJns and Saycojyhilus 
ursinus, from Tasmania. 
Australian Museum, Sydney, Australia, 17665. '86. (iv) 
Raccoon, Frocyon lolor. 

MusiSe L'Herminier, Pointe-a-Pitre, Guadeloupe. (Through L. Gnesde.) 
17666. '86. (IV) 
Shells. Sfrombus costatus Gmel., Ctjprcca exanthema 1j., OJiva reticularis, Feetcn antil- 
lariim, and Lima seabra. 

Musee L'Herminier, Pointe-a-Pitre, Guadeloupe. (Through L. Gnesde.) 
17666. '86. (IX) 
Forest Mushrooms. 

Mus^e L'Herminier, Poiutc-i-Pitre, Guadeloupe. (Through L. Gnesde.) 
17666. '86. (XV) 
Calcite and native sulphur; also a specimen of bog-iron ore. 

MusEK L'Herminier, Pointe-il-Pitre, Guadeloupe. (Through L. Gnesde.) 
17666. '86. (XVI) 
Bird Skins, Fams atricapillus, Totanus Jiavipcs, Nycticorax violacem, Ardea herodias, 
PelecanuH fiiseus, GalHriula(/aleata, Fulica cariba'a, Ihematopris palliatas, Fodilymhiis 
podiceps, Fhaethon wtliereuH, Falco columharius, Symphcmia .semipalmata, Sterna fulig- 
viosa, lAmona hwmastica, DaJUa bahamensis, jEgialitis rociferas, Speotyto guadeloupeii- 
818, Charadriu8 dominicus, Thryothorus rufescens, Tyrannu.s rostratus, and Mniotilta 
varia. 

Musi<;e L'Herminier, Pointe-a-Pitre, Guadeloupe. (Through L. Gnesde.) 
17666. '86. (v,A) 
Snake, Coluber obsoletus obsoletns. 

H. P. HoARE, Ph(cbus, Virginia. 17667. '86. (Vi) 



792 KEPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

Stone Idol. 

John W. Emmert. (Bureau of Ethnology.) 17663. '86. 
Mineral Water, for examination. 

Saint Clair Mineral Spring Company, Saint Clair, Michigan. 17669. '86. 

(XVI) 

White Cockatoo, Caeatua sulphurea. 

Mrs. M. Parks, Norfolk, Virginia. 17G70. 'b6. (xii) 
Tiger Salamander, AmMystoma tigrinum (8 specimens). 

Dr. E. W. Shufeldt, U. S. Army, Fort Wiugate, New Mexico. 17671. ^8(j. (vi) 
Tiger Salamander, AmMystoma tigrinum. 

Dr. Basil Norris, U. S. Army, Spokane Falls, Washington Territory. 17672. 
'86. (VI) 
Indian Implement, for examination. 

Jerome Wiltse, Falls City, Nebraska. 17673. ^SQ. (iii) 
Florida Jay (6 specimens), black and white shore-finches (2 specimens), Florida 
dusky ducks (1 pair). (Purchased.) 

C. J. Maynard, Boston, Massachusetts. 17674. '86. (v, A^i 
Soapstone (2 specimens), from a quarry belonging to W. W. Evans, District of 
Columbia. 

Dr. AVilliam S. McIlhenney, Washington, District of Columbia. 17675. '86. 

(XVIII) 

Meteoric Iron (2 s])ecimens). (Exchange.) 

Amherst College, Amherst, Massachusetts. 17676. '86. (xviii) 
Lamprey Eels, Petromyzon marinns (16 specimens). 

S. E. Meek, Cayuga, New York. 17677. '86. (viii) 
Badges of the Travelers' Protective Association to the National Convention, Balti- 
more, June, 1886. Illinois delegate and alternate. 

Frank J. Allen, Chicago, Illinois. 17678. '86. (i) 
Fish, Percina caprodes. 

Thomas Lewis, Roanoke, Virginia. 17679. ^&Q). (vii) 
Tiger Salamanders, AmMystoma tigrinum (35 specimens). 

Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, U. S. Army, Fort V/ingate, Now Mexico. 17680. '86. (vi) 
Galena, for examination. 

Wiley R. Helm, Jamestown, Clinton County, Illinois. 17681. '86. (xvi) 
American Hercules Beetle, Dynastes iltyus. 

L. E. D. Berry, Dawson's Cross-Roads, North Carolina. 17682. '86. (x) 
Stone Implement, for examination. Returned. 

G. C. Jones, Brookfield, Connecticut. 17683. '86. (in) 

Minerals. 

Wagner Institute of Science, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 17684. '86. (xvi) 

Eel Pout, Zoarces angidllaris. 

Henry' M. Low, Rockport, Massachusetts. 17685. '86. (a'ii) 
Minerals, for examination. 

Charles S. H. Buchanan, Custer City, Dakota. 17686. '86. (xvi) 
Sea Weed with barnacle attached, jirobably Spartina slicta, for examination. 

I. Jenkins Mikell, Edisto Island, South Carolina. 17687. 'SO,, (xv) 
Ethnological Objects. See under Accession No. 17239 (Nos. 120-128.) 

Lieut. P. H. Ray, U. S. Army, Fort Gaston, California. 17683. 'S6. (ii, a) 

EuROi^EAN Goldfinch, Ca,rdneHs cardaeUs, in the flesh. 

W. C. Weeden, U. S. National Museum. 17639. '86. (v,a) 



LIST OP ACCESSIONS. 793 

BiKDS (7 species, 12 spociiiieus), collected at Humboldt Bay, C.iliforiiiti. 

Charles H. ToWNSUND, U. S. Fisli Commi.ssiou. 17G'J0. 'dG. (v, a) 

Snail, Helix hortensis. 

Prof. J. H. Morrison, Lexingtou, Virginia,. 17691. '86. (ix) 
Photographs of Fishes. Caranx, Epincplmlus, Enneacentrna, Glyphidodon, Calamus, 
Octopus, etc., caiigbt at Caroline Island, South Pacific Ocean, by M. Janssen, 
Director of the French Eclipse Llxpodltion. 
Edward S. HoLDEN, Washburn Observatory, Madison, Wisconsin. 17G92. (vii) 

Oak, showing borings of a larva. 

B. F. Stalker, New Providence, Indiana. 17693. 'Sd. (x) 
Fossil Teeth. ^gia(.s' (?sp.) ? /rater?i?/s, superior canine and inferior molar, and 
Dicotyles sp. nov., superior canine, for examination. 

James W. Rogan, Rogersville, Tennessee. 17G94. '86. (viii) 
Meteoric Iron (4 small shavings), from Albuquerque, New Mexico. 

L. G. Eakins, Denver, Colorado. 17695. '88, (xvi) 
Coins. Seal rings, scales, Roman brass image, music on parchment, with illumined 
sacred pictures by a monk of the twelfth ceutuiy, shekel of the Saracens, Bac- 
trian coin, medal, etc. (De[)osited.) 

James Austin, Washington, District of Columbia. 17G9r). '86. (i) 
Scale Carp, Cyprinus carpio; also the hook with which the specimen was caught. 

W. B. Johnston, Macoji, Georgia. 17G97. '86. {vn) 
Buddhist Sutras. The sutras of Bowadlee's life; thosutras of Amitabha's life. 

Dr. D. B. McCartee, W.ashington, District of Columbia. 17698. '86. (ii, a) 
European Goldfinch, Cni-dndis cardudis. 

W. C. Weeden, U. S. National Mnseun:. 17699. '86. (v, a) 
Diana Monkey, Cercopithecus diana, in the flesh. 

Zoological Society of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
(Through Arthur Edwin Brown, Esq.) 17700. '86. (iv) 
Mixture of graphite and fragments of various siliceous minerals with p;irticles of 
organic matter. 

1. A. COMERFORD, Spokane Falls, Washington Territory. 17701. '86. (xvii) 
Red-shouldered Hawk, Butco lincatns. 

John K. Walker, Parkersburgh, Illinois. 17702. '86. (v, a) 

Bronze Coins, from Corea (3) ; value about one-third cent each. 

Lieut. W. A. MiNTZER, U. S. Navy, Baltimore, Maryland. 17703. '8(;. (i) 

Crystals. 

Otto Reimer, United States Consul, Santiago do Cuba. (Through De]iartif '.mjI 
of State.) 17704. '86. (xvi) 



INDEXES TO ACCESSION LIST. 



Index A — By countries. 

Index B — By departmeuts iu the National Mnseum. 

Index C — By name of donor, lender, etc. 

Index A. 

A.FRICA. 

1G307, 1G413, 10505, 1G521, 1G535, 1G550, 16590, 16599, 16634, 16636, 16648, 16649, 16650, 
1GG51, 1GG52, 16G54, 16885, 17159, 17331, 17359, 17401, 17462. 

AMERICA. 

Central America. 

16317, 1GS21, 16408, 1G425, 164.52, 16658, 16G74, 1C)G82, 16786, 1G798, 16839, 16847, 
16869, 16875, 1G989, 17024, 17048, 17416, 17499, 17654, 17664, 17GG6. 

British America. 

16574, 16592, 1GG59, lf)749, 16779, 1G784, 16803, 1G824, 16829, ir86G, 16925, 17022, 
17029, 1719G, 17315, 17373, 17491. 

North America. 

united states. 

Alabama : 16265, 16406, 16484, 16735, 16907, 17494, 17495, 17526, 17575, 17597. 
Alaska: 16293, 1G309, 1(;597, 16743, 16771, 1G827, 16878, 16879, 16889, 16890, 16902, 

16914, 17146, 17393. 
Arkansas: 16239, 16260, 16284, 16369, 16509, 17062, 17502, 17540, 17577, 17578, 

17592, 17612. 
Arizona: 16267, 16375, 16392, 16598, 16680, 16691, 16814, 16837, 16919, 16928, 

169G7, 17347, 173G9, 17537, 17631. 
California: 16243, 16291, 1G326, 16327, 1G346, 16358, 16420, 16461, 16474, 16629, 

16707, 1G718, 16813, 16823, 1G913, 16944, 1714G 17239, 17314, 1737G, 17414, 

17444, 17484, 17509, 17530, 17607, 17609, 17610, 17615, 17632, 17636, 17637, 

17642, 17653, 17688. 
Colorado: 16224, 16225, 16241, 16242, 16278, 1G42G, 1G719, 1G817, 1G8.5G, 17267, 

17269, 17542. 
Connecticut: 1GG24, 1(JG71, 16835, 16908, 1G91G, 17421, 17475, 17683. 
Dakota: 1G245, 16390, 16923, 17354, 1768G. 
Delaware : 16504. 

795 



796 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188U. 

District of Columbia: 1G230, 10304, 1630 5, VC^M, IGliiO, 10481, lO^fvi, 10589, 

16675, 10773, 16785, 10805, 16812, 17450, 17478, 17470, 17400, 17535, 17500, 17660, 

17675. 
Florida: 10219, 10271, 10353, 16459, 10000, 10030, 16701, 10794, 10800, 10010, 10065, 

10090, 17027, 17341, 17390, 17424, 17449, 1748S, 17579, 17000, 17074. 
Georgia: 16227, 16240, 16246, 10510, 16078, lOyS.-', 10083, 17351, 17410, 17527, 17626, 

17097. 
Idaho: 10228, 16247, 16433, 167.59, 17510, 17557, 17029. 
Illinois: 16212, 16365, 16702, 16723, 10745, 10767, 16830, 17282, 17362, 17413, 

17471, 17517, 17041, 17500, 17702. 
Indiana: 10212, 10225, 10424, 16430, 10663, 10073, 16729, 16782, 16807, 10927, 

17523, 17537, 17599, 17649, 17693. 
Iowa: 16286, 16378, 10398, 10622, 17456, 1754C. 
Kansas: 16744, 16781, 16800, 16841, 17114, 172.52, 17354, 17510, 17520, 17553, 17005, 

17035, 17059. 
Kentucky: 10248, 16262, 16285, 16380, 16421, 16475, 16980, 17532, 17628. 
Louisiana: 16930, 10953, 173.56, 17374, 17403. 

Maine: 16410, 16423, 16427, 16465, 16584, 16773, 17420, 17512, 17656. 
Maryland: 16223, 16283, 16370, 16458, 16518, 16577, 10727, 10802, 16852, 10931, 

17372, 17384, 17390, 17470, 17489, 17598, 17644. 
Massachusetts: 16260, 10279, 16313, 10447, 10089, 16005, 16690, 10750, 10760, 

16709, 10789, 10872, 10952, 16960, 17073, 17271, 17375, 17483, 17508, 17685. 
Michigan: 16251, 16512, 16726, 16818, 10915, 17425. 
Minnesota: 10457, 16511, 16981. 
Mississippi: 10402, 16961, 17533, 17571, 17586, 17622. 
Missouri: 16025, 10820, 16840, 16920, 17379, 17.589, 17603. 

Montana: 16249, 16250, 16437, 10681, 16710. 17354, 17418, 17492, 17493, 17025. 
Nebraska: 16557, 17324, 17539, 17673. 
Nevada: 10252, 10797, 16950, 10964, 17447, 17508. 
New Hampshire : 16418, 16709, 16728, 16979. 
New Jersey: 16209, 16222, 16254, 16388, 16451, 16705, 16700, 16736, 16708, 10987, 

17054, 17330, 17360, 17370, 17651. 
New Mexico: 16215, 10220, 10221, 10235, 102.53, 10300, 10450, 10002, 10793. 16819, 

16895, 16901, 17330, 17640, 17671, 17680, 17695. 
New York: 16374, 16231, 16300, 16443, 16450, 16554, 16028, 10099, 16701, 16796, 

16934, 16041, 16992, 17208, 17335, 17411, 17491, 17501, 17525, 17001, 17677. 
North Carolina : 16258, 16294, 10316, 10341, 10404, 10131, 10506, 16553,16581, 

16752, 17307, 17344, 17433, 17445, 17543, 17551, 17554, 17555, 17556, 17.559. 17623. 
Ohio: 16229, 16318, 10V28, 16439, 16623, 16755, 16782, 16946, 17538, 17585, 17608, 

17649. 
Oregon: 16255, 10445, 10710, 16825, 17350, 17458, 17509. 

Pennsylvania: 16211, 10232, 16342, 16433, 10517, 10758, 10701, 10704, 16790, 
16844, 16345, 16917, 17355, 17385, 17434, 17521, 17,552, 17574, 17595. 

Rhode Island: 10315, 10520, 10711, 17404. 

South Carolina: 10570, 16098, 17497, 17014, 17627. 

Tennessee: 16216, 16217, 16210, 16250, 10253, 10430, 10154, 10020, 10703, 10767, 
16870, 17270, 17288, 17317. 17343, 17364, 17523, 17530, 17547, 17.560, 17606, I7(;i7, 
17618. 



INDEXES ro ACCESSION LIST. 



7^7 



Tkxas: 1623:?, 16257, 16266, 162'J5, 16323, 16130, llJSril, l6(i'J3, 16731, 16739, 16937, 

16938, 17407, 17506, 17511, 1759^, 17620, 17630. 
Utah: 16379, 16774, 16308, 16S;J3, 1728J, 17518, 17594. 
Vermont : 16330. 
Vikginia: 16273, 16345, 16363, 16386, 16393, 16400, 1()415, 16416, 16419, 16440, 

16448, 16632, 16690, 16697, 16703, 16708, 16737, 16772, 16816, 16867, 16903, 

16906, 16909, 16933, 16951, 17261, 17349, 17371, 17380, 17405, 17406, 17419, 

17437, 17477, 17529, 17582, 17593, 17667, 17679, 17691. 
Washington Terkitouy: 16301, 16405, 16633, 17387, 17503, 17509,17549, 17583, 

17588, 17643, 17672, 17701. 
West Virginia : 16264, 16276, 16297, m300, 16428, 17431, 17501, 17611, 17662. 
Wisconsin: 16455, 16721, 16900, 17342. 
Wyoming: 16397, 16679. 

MEXICO. 

16290, 16401, 16432, 16503, 16523, 16621, 16856, 16657, 16664, 16667, 16860, 16993, 

16997, 16998, 17001, 17002, 17003, 17004, 17005, 17006, 17007, 17008, 17009, 

17010, 17011, 17012, 17013, 17014, 17015, 17016, 17025, 17030, 17035, 17111, 
17294, 17295, 17410, 17481, 17572, 17651. 

west indies. 

16230, 16292, 16528, 16561, 16631, 16661, 16820, 16865, 16911, 16941, 17399, 17400, 
17429. 

south AMERICA. 

16236, 16560, 16612, 16660, 16(]82, 16741, 16762, 16791, 16792, 16811, 16885, 16892, 
16904, 16957, 17351, 17469, 1761(J, 

Asia (including Malaysia). 

16311, 16332, 16367, 16368, 163S2, 16389, 1641.3, 16485, 16514, 16516, 16524, 16527, 

16548, 16555, 16565, 16571, 16616, 16619, 16620, 16635, 16637, l(i638, 16639, 

16640, 16692, 16694, 16734, 16795, 16801, 16362, 168S5, 16904, 16913, 16970, 

16989, 16995, 17023, 17028, 17037, 17339, 17332, 17389, 17427, 17430, 17436, 
17442, 17458, 17465, 17491, 17513, 1760;^ 17634, 17703. 







Europe ( 


including Great Britain). 








16214, 16233, 1635 


4, 16339 


, 16142, 


16172, 16177, 16436, 


16187, 


16490, 


16193, 


16495, 


16496, 


16197, 


16498, 


16500, 


16502, 16513, 16525, 


16529, 


16533, 


1(m31, 


16536, 


16.537, 


16538, 


16540, 


16541, 


16543, 16544, 16546, 


16547, 


1(;550, 


16559, 


16563, 


16569, 


16570, 


16573, 


16574, 


16575, 16591, 16600, 


ICiiOl, 


16()02, 


16603, 


16604, 


16605, 


16606, 


16607, 


16608, 


16610, 16615, 16617, 


16611, 


16642, 


16643, 


16644, 


16645, 


16646, 


16647, 


16656, 


16677, 16714, 16730, 


16746, 


16747, 


16748, 


16783, 


16787, 


16788, 


16810, 


16864, 


16385, 1(;886, 16905, 


16932, 


16947, 


16950, 


16982, 


16988, 


16989, 


16994, 


16996, 


17017, 17018, 117021, 


17033, 


17034, 


17040, 


17041, 


17042, 


17044, 


17046, 


17047, 


17049, 17050, 17037, 


1709:!, 


17094, 


17207, 


17214, 


17221, 


17223, 


17224, 


17225, 


17227, 17229, 1726(5, 


17352, 


17357, 


17353, 


17360, 


17361, 


17368, 


17386, 


17389, 


17390, 17.391, 17392, 


17435, 


17441, 


17413, 


17457,' 


17548, 


17638, 


17650. 




OCEANICA. 

AUSTRALASIA. 











16333, 16491, 16492, 16499, 16.530, 165.59, 16566, l(;5r.7, 165C)8, 16611, 16653, 16835, 
16924, 17036, 17084, 17223, 17665. 



798 REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 

POLYNESIA. 

16478, 16522, 19539, 16545, 16562, 16574, 16751, 16753, 16754, 16978, 17038, 17263. 

Index B. 

Department I. 

Arts and Industries: 16222, 16228, 16229, 16232, 16237, 16279, 16325, 16405, 16449, 
16473, 16479, 16485, 16490, 16491, 16492, 16497-16501 inclusive, 16504, 16505, 
16516, 16519, 16521-16524 inclusive, 16526, 16528, 16529, 16531-16544 Inclusive, 
16547-16550 inclusive, 16560-16564 inclusive, 16566-16570 inclusive, 16582, 16592, 
16598, 16600-16608 inclusive, 16610, 16614-16617 inclusive, 16620, 16654, 16666, 
16677, 16692, 16711, 16715, 16717, 16722, 16734, 16746, 16754, 16785, 16788, 16795, 
16801, 16803, 16821, 16822, 16330, 16854, 16865, 16378, 16897-16900 inclusive, 
16905, 16909, 16910, 16935, 16941, 16945, 16954, 16957, 16960, 16971, 16972, 16980, 
16984, 16987, 16990, 16991, 16993, 16996, 16998, 17020, 17023,' 17037, 17039, 17040, 
17042, 17047, 17061, 17064, 17076, 17111, 17136, 17137, 17161, 17163, 17167, 17175, 
17178, 17180, 17181, 17188, 17193, 17196, 17199, 17207, 17218, 17227, 17228, 17229, 
17240, 17246, 17253, 17266, 17268, 17272, 17273, 17275, 17296, 17298, 17300, 17310, 
17331, 17332, 17351, 17353, 17357, 17358, 17360, 173G7, 17378, 17384, 17385, 17386, 
17.390, 17391, 17392, 17394, 17398, 17400, 17403, 17405, 17406, 17418, 17422, 17423, 
17428, 17432, 17435, 17442, 17443, 17450, 17451-17455 inclusive, 17467, 17469, 
17484, 17499, 17514, 17542, 17580, 17596, 17600, 17613, 17627, 17647, 17677, 17678, 
17696, 17703. 

Department II. 

(A) Ethnology: 16293, 16311, 16331, 16332, 16358, 16371, 16392, 16413, 16450, 16452, 
16477, 15486, 16488, 16496, 16515, 16522, 16525, 1(«45, 16546, 16550, 16555, 16559, 
16565. 16572-16575 inclusive, 16587, 16588, 16590-16592, 16599, 16617, 16631, 16634- 
16661 inclusive, 16692, 16720, 16721, 16726, 16733, 16748, 16771, 16786, 16787, 
16809, 16848, 16860, 16861-16863, 16870, 16871, 16878, 16879, 16893, 16895, 16902, 
16912, 16914, 16928, 16929, 16943, 16953, 16955, 16956, 16958, 16959, 16961, 16962, 
16970, 16978, 16993, 16995, 17029, 17041, 17048, 17057, 17069, 17070, 17094, 17111. 
17121, 17174, 17198, 17204, 17214, 17215, 17243, 17306, 17318, 17340, 17347, 17364, 
17382, 17388, 17393, 17395, 17400, 17401, 17414, 17427, 17430, 17441, 17449, 17457, 
17458, 17462, 17472, 17473, 17491, 17513, 17(533, 17634, 17656, 17657, 17665, 17688, 
17698. 

Department II. 

(B) Prehistoric American Pottery: 16362, 16598, 16694, 16765, 17111, 17295, 
17377, 17410, 17621, 17658, 17663. 

Department III. 

Archeology: 16225, 16227, 16233, 16265, 16274, 16318, 16328, 16341, 16355, 16374, 

16380, 16382, 16421, 16430, 16438, 16441, 16442, 16445, 16480, 16484, 16489, 16598, 

16624, 16673, 16691, 16729, 16736, 16739, 16758, 16759, 16782, 16789, 16798, 16807, 

16864, 16879, 16886, 16919, 16927, 16946, 16950, 16973, 16974, 17094, 17135, 17145, 

17157, 17191, 17278, 17302, 17307, 17317, 17329, 17350, 17355, 17370, 17374, 17396, 

17399, 17400, 17424, 17449, 17471, 17517, 17521, 17526, 17528, 17532, 17547, 17563, 

17584, 17585, 17589, 17619, 17625, 17611, 17649, 17654, 17651, 17673. 



INDEXED TO ACCESSION LIST. 



799 



Department IV. 

Mammals: 16215, 16236, 16261, 16268, 16270, 16278, 16280, 16281, 162S2, 16288, 

1^296, 16312, 16327, 16343, 16344, 16366, 16383, 16387, 16397, 16401, 1(.;414, 16417, 

16429, 16464, 16503, 16517, 16557, 16598, 16618, 16621, 16689, 16705, 16706, 16712, 

16714, 16725, 16742. 16781, 16802, 16827, 16828, 16832, 16834, 16840, 16849, 16866, 

16874, 16913, 16914, 16915, 16925, 16976, 16935, 17080, 17090, 17098, 17100, 17101, 

17123, 17142, 17146, 17150, 17156, 17162, 17179, 17232, 17235, 17239, 17242, 17290, 

17313, 17322, 17335, 17336, 17345, 17363, 17366, 17369, 17375, 17402, 17421, 17459, 

17460, 17498, 17534, 1756G, 17576, 17605, 17659, 17665, 17666, 17700. 

Department V. 



(A) Birds 


: 16212, 16216 


, 16221, 


, 16238, 


, 16268, 


16271, 


16283, 


16302, 


16317, 


16319, 


16327, 


16329, 


16339, 


16361, 


16373, 


16375, 


16376, 


16384, 


16385, 


16389, 


16401, 


16409, 


16418, 


16437, 


16416, 


16447, 


16456, 


16462, 


16463, 


16472, 


16474, 


16478, 


16481, 


16518, 


16552, 


16576, 


16577, 


16578, 


16597, 


16619, 


16627, 


16664, 


16667, 


16668, 


16670, 


16680, 


16681, 


16682, 


16689, 


16703, 


16707, 


16727, 


16730, 


16745, 


16753, 


16756, 


16761, 


16772, 


16792, 


16793, 


16804, 


16810, 


16811, 


16813, 


16821, 


16827, 


16839, 


16847, 


16855, 


16866, 


16872, 


16875, 


16878, 


16879, 


16881, 


16885, 


16889, 


1(;903, 


16904, 


16914, 


16916, 


16952, 


16969, 


16986, 


17051, 


17055, 


17072, 


17091, 


17098, 


17099, 


17100, 


17102, 


17104, 


17110, 


17120, 


17124, 


17125, 


17134, 


17146, 


17149, 


17160, 


17171, 


17184, 


17185, 


17186, 


17202, 


17205, 


17223, 


17244, 


17254, 


17277, 


172S2, 


17285, 


17291, 


17301, 


17305, 


17309, 


17325, 


17338, 


17344, 


17362, 


17373, 


17389, 


17400, 


17415, 


17416, 


17465, 


17475, 


17488, 


17508, 


17536, 


17538, 


17539, 


17548, 


17550, 


17558, 


17565, 


17567, 


17573, 


17616, 


17626, 


17644, 


17645, 


17666, 


17674, 17689, 17690, 17699, 17702. 











Department V. 

(B) Birds' Eggs: 16212, 16268, 16303, 16324, 16377, 16378, 16437, 16448, 16576, 

16744, 16812, 16827, 16866, 16878, 16906, 16916, 16967, 16992, 17112, 17126, 

17160, 17201, 17212, 17233, 17251, 17292, 17346, 17376, 17381, 17400, 17426, 
17489. 

Department VI. 

Rp:ptilks: 16267, 16268, 16291, 16304, 16317, 16321, 16.345, 16354, 16360, 16363, 

16372, 16397, 16400, 16401, 16426, 16440, 16586, 16621, 16623, 16632, 16(;75, 

16689, 16741, 167.52, 16796, 16819, 16820, 16825, 16851, 16890, 16892, 16901, 

16926, 16970, 17080, 17134, 17222, 17307, 17311, 17327, 17404, 17414, 17438, 

17470, 17527, 17631, 17632, 17642, 17646, 17653, 17660, 17667, 17671, 17672, 
17680. 

Department VII. 

Fishes: 16219, 16268, 16269, 16275, 16291, 16292, 16315, 16317, 16331, 16334, 16335, 

16345, 16354, 16400, 16401, 16415, 16435, 16440, 16460, 16469, 16475, 16520, 

16583, 16628, 16642, 16687, KwOl, 16704, 16708, 16709, 16712, 1()719. 16728, 

16737, 16743, 16747, 16760, 16768, 16769, 16791, 16816, 16823, 16835, 1()858, 

16878, 16883, 16889, 16890, 1()908, 16911, 16921, 16970, 17052, 17058, 17073, 

1709.5, 17096, 17118, 17128, 17139, 17141, 17146, 17164, 17165, 17173, 17177* 

17194, 17210, 17222, 17231, 17249, 17258, 172<;2, 17264, 17308, 1731(;, 17321, 

17337, 17349, 17371, 17372, 17400, 17409, 17414, 17420, 17431, 17436, 17458, 
17483, 17512, 17522, 17529, 17581, 17677, 17679, 17685, 17692, 17697. 

Department VIII. 
Vertebrate P'ossils : 16442, 17607. 



800 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 
Department IX. 



MOLLUSKS: 16226, 16268, 16298, 16307, 16309, 16340, 16345, 16415, 16434, 16440, 

16464, 16609, 16630, 16669, 16751, 16767, 16800, 16815, 16824, 16841, 16857, 

16869, 16879, 16883, 16890, 16894, 16914, 16920, 16933, 16947, 16970, 16975, 

17059, 17066, 17067, 17068, 17075, 17082, 17092, 17094, 17105, 171L4, 17170, 

17203, 17217, 17252, 17387, 17400, 17429, 17440, 17509, 17510, 17553, 17606, 
17666, 17691. 

Department X. 



Insects : 16-209, 16211, 16217, 16220, 16235, 16268, 16281 

16317, 16320, 16327, 16345, 16347, 16348, 16354, 

16398, 16400, 16401, 16403, 16407, 16408, 16411, 

16470, 16476, 16554, 16558, 16585, 16594, 16626, 

16713, 16738, 16770, 16775, 16780, 16806, 16627, 

17139, 17146, 17160, 17176, 17213, 17221, 17245, 

17400, 17414, 17468, 17494, 17502, 17509, 17518, 

17554, 17555, 17556, 17559, 17568, 17569, 17577, 

17599, 17608, 17615, 17616, 17628, 17635, 17636, 



, 16282 


1, 16306, 


, 16310, 


16316, 


16359, 


16364, 


16381, 


16386, 


16415, 


16420, 


16443, 


16467, 


16665, 


16674, 


16679, 


16689, 


16833, 


17-077, 


17078, 


17133, 


17248, 


17303, 


17304, 


17380, 


17.520, 


17543, 


17546, 


17551, 


17582, 


17583, 


17590, 


17593, 


17637, 


17662, 


17682, 


17693. 



Department XL 

Marine Invertebrates: 16230, 16263, 16268, 16327, 16345, 16351, 16400, 16415, 

16475, 16683, 16686, 16689, 16712, 16723, 16740, 16750, 16755, 16760, 16805, 

16816, 16821, 16827, 16836, 16846, 16877, 16878, 16889, 16890, 16948, 16970, 

16973, 17027, 17073, 17118, 17236, 17263, 17312, 17320, 17341, 17368, 17400, 
17419, 17437, 17524. 

Department XII. 

Comparative Anatomy : 16268, 16395, 16468, 16633, 16678, 16777, 16852, 16878, 16880, 
16884, 16922, 16988, 17126, 17131, 17147, 17197, 17209, 17265, 17276, 17281, 17293, 
17326, 17333, 17361, 17383, 17397, 17413, 17444, 17445, 17485, 17500, 17640, 17646, 
17652, 17659, 17«70. 

Department XIII. 

(A) Invertebrate Fossils (Paleozoic) : 16300, 16346, 16424, 16749, 16763, 16779, 
16782, 16783, 16799, 17084, 17132, 17206, 17230, 17280, 17283, 17284, 17324, 17342, 
17365, 17366, 17379, 17447, 17448, 17474, 17553, 17570. 

(B) Invertebrate Fossils (Meso-Ceiiozoic) : 16288, 16402, 16685, 16859, 16917, 

16974, 17094, 17143, 17153, 17206, 17286, 17407. 

Department XIV. 

Plants, Fossil : 16260, 16399, 16424, 16519, 16537, 166lJ8, 16724, 16821, 16917, 17084, 
17094, 17247, 17278, 17288, 17289, 17491, 17497. 



Department XV. 

Plants, recent : 16224, 16268, 16273, 16287, 16323, 16333, 16337, 16350, 16401, 16412, 

16458, 16483, 16487, 16.530, 16555, 16611,16612, 16625, 16625, 16731, 16776, 16794, 

16836, 16843, 16878, 16937, 16964, 16995, 17038, 17084, 17111, 17200, 17259, 17260, 

17281, 17294, 17348, 17481, 17190, 17571, 17578, 17602, 17618, 17622, 17666, 17687. 



INDEXES TO ACCESSION LIST. 801 

Department XVI. 

Minerals: 16210, 16225,16231, 16234, 16260, 16266, 16268,16272, 16276, 16284, 16285, 
16286, 16297, 16299, 16301, 16305, 16308, 16313, 16342, 16352, 16356, 16357, 16370, 
16391, 16393, 16394, 16406, 16419, 16423. 16425, 16431, 16432, 16433, 16439, 16459, 
16465, 16468, 16482, 16494, 16506, 16508-16512 inclusive, 16514, 16527, 1653(5, 16551, 
16553, 16561, 16584,16622, 16629, 16662, 16G71, 16693. 16698, 16699, 16735, 16764, 
16784, 16790, 16801, 16808, 16817, 16827, 16829. 16837, 16850, 16856, 16867, 16868, 
16896, 16923, 16930, 16931, 16932, 16934, 16938-16940 inclusive, 16942,16944, 16966, 
16983, 16995, 16997, 16999, 17016, 17021, 17024, 17030, 17053, 170.56, 17060, 17062, 
17063, 17074, 17084, 170S9, 17093, 17094, 17103, 17106, 17108, 17109,17116, 17117, 
17119, 17122, 17130, 1714.5, 17148, 17151, 17152, 17154, 17159, 17166, 17168, 17172, 
17182, 17195, 17208, 17211, 17219, 17224, 17225, 17241, 17269, 17270,17271, 17274, 
17279, 17299, 17314, 17315, 17476, 17478, 17479, 17493, 17501, 17503, 17509, 17525, 
17.586, 17588, 17592, 17594, 17597, 17603, 17610, 17611, 17612, 17617, 17623, 17629, 
17630, 17638, 17666, 17676, 17681, 17684,17686, 1769.5, 17704. 

Department XVII. 

LiTHOLOGY AND PHYSICAL GEOLOGY : 16245, 16277, 16286, 16295, 16326, 16367, 16368, 
16369, 16379, 16404, 16416, 16423, 16427, 16436, 16444, 16451, 16457, 16493, 16507, 
16527, 16663, 16669, 16695, 16696, 16697, 16702, 16735, 16757, 16827, 16842, 16844, 
16853, 16870, 16891, 16902, 16938, 16939, 16949, 16970, 16974, 16981, 16994, 16999, 
17021, 17022, 17060, 17065, 17084, 17087, 17094, 17097, 17103, 17169, 17183, 17187, 
17190, 17192, 17216, 17226, 17234, 17238, 17250, 17271, 17294, 17317, 17343, 17354, 
17359, 17408, 17411, 17412, 17434, 17456, 17477, 17.533, 17579, 17604, 17614, 17650, 
17675, 17696, 17701. 

Department XVIII. 

Metallurgy: 16213, 16223, 16234, 16239, 16240-16258 inclusive, 16264, 16268, 16294, 
16322, 16330, 16336, 163.38, 16349, 16388, 16390, 16396, 16428, 16432, 16433, 16445, 
16471, 16482, 16495, 16550, 16556, 16571, 16579, 16580, 16589, 16593, 16613, 16617, 
16672, 16676, 16690, 16710, 16762, 16797, 16814, 16823, 16824, 16827, 16831, 16845, 
16873, 16888, 16907, 16925, 16951, 1(5963, 16965, 16982, 16988, 16997, 17001, 17002- 
17015 inclusive, 17021, 17022, 17023, 17024, 17033-17036 inclusive, 17071, 17079, 
17081, 17083, 17084, 17085, 17080, 17087, 17107, 17111, 1711(5, 17117, 17119, 17127, 
17129, 17130, 17158. 17220, 17237, 17267, 17330, 17351, 17352, 17353, 17491, 17492, 
17493, 17495, 17504-17507 inclusive, 17511, 17515, 17516, 17523, 17.530, 17535, 17537, 
17540, 17541, 17544, 17545, 17557, 17560, 17561, 175(52, 17564, 17572, 17575, 17587, 
17595, 17598, 17601, 17609, 17643. 

Department XIX. 

Experimental Physiology: 16218, 16716, 16718, 17088, 17155, 17189, 17256, 17287, 
H. Miss. 170, pt. 2 51 



802 



KEPOET ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 188G. 



Index C. 



Accession 
uumber. 

Abbott, A.N 16702 

Abert, J. T 16807 

Academy of Natural Sciences, Swe- 
den 16477 

Academy of Natural Sclences,Phila- 

delpbia 17299,17565 

Adam?, W. H 17251 

Addison, C.G 17384 

Adney,E. T 17346 

Agassiz, A 16343 

Aguillera, Seuor 17016,17206 

Aken,A.R 16920 

Aldeu Fruit and Taro Company... 16539 

Aldricb, Charles 17350 

Allen, Frank J 17678 

Allen, W,C 17527 

American Institute of Mining En- 
gineers 16831 

American Museum of Natural His- 
tory 17553,17573 

American Salt Company 17412 

Amberst College 17676 

Amsden, E 16382 

Anderson, A. E 16278 

Andree, C 16524 

Anonymous Society of Blacksmitbs . 16495 

Antbony, A. W 17126 

Appleton, Natban 17136 

Armstrong, C 17471 

Army Medical Museum 16395 

Austin, James 17696 

Australian Museum 17665 

Avery, JobnM 16930 

Ayers & Hardman 1635''^ 

Aym6, Louis H -• 16290 

Babcock, W. H 17326 

Bacbeler, Dr. OtisR 17243 

Bailey, E.M 16584 

Bailey, S.C. II 17224 

Baird, I>r. C. P 16806 

Baird.Mrs. H. S 16733 

Baird, Prof. Spencer F 17435 

Baker, A. B 17659 

Baker, George A 16927 

Baker, W. J 17621 

Balbacb, Charles 17108 

Balfour &Co 16606 

Ball, Charles 16217 

Ball, Forrest 16302 

Balraer, J. A 17381 

Barber, Samuel, «& Co 16532 

Barksdale, Hon. E 17564 



Accession 
iiuiubor. 



Barnum, Bailey & Hutcbinson .. . 16261, 
16296. 16464, 16725, 16742, 16828, 17363 

Barr, Mrs. Mary 16906 

Barrow, O.W 17332 

Barrows, C. J 16953 

Bartlett, Edward 17082, 17223 

Bartlett, J. R 167.12, 16853 

Barton & Logan 17232, 17322 

Batty,.!. H 16271 

Beal, William 16240 

Beau, T. H 16281, 16203, 10518, 16758 

Beaucbamp, E. P 16.570 

Beck.Charlcs 17300 

Becker, F. L 17663 

Becker, M. J.. 16975 

Beckbam, C.W 16668 

Beckwlth, Mrs. A. H. C 16949 

Belding, L 17072 

Belgian Commission 16994 

Bell, Mrs. Alex. G 16714 

Bell, George W 17081 

Belt, G. D 17213 

Beadire, Charles E.. . 16437, 16680, 16681, 
17222, 17418, 17472, 17625 

Benedict, James E 17174 

Bennett, Richard 17107 

Berg, G.T 17216 

Berlepscb, H. vou 17309 

Berlin, A. F 16438,17302 

Beruadou, J. B 16970 

Bessftls, Dr. Emil 17393, 17485 

Biddle, Henry J 17434 

Biezeuaar, A. and J 16G41 

Bigelow, Otis 16413 

Bigelow, Robert P 16973 

Billings, Dr. John S.,U. S. A. (See 
under Army Medical Museum.) 

Bisbop, Mrs. Margaret 17358 

Black, Alex. C 16673 

Black,Dr. E. C 16225 

Black, Miss Julia 16226 

Blackburu, Miss Dottie 16426 

Blackford, E. G 16704,16747,17321, 

17409, 17652 

Blackman, O. A 10663,16757 

Blaisdell, Frank E 16936 

Blake, J.Henry 16750 

Blake, W.W 17410,17619 

Blaufarbenwcrk Marienberg 17040 

Bloomingdale Graphite Company.. 16388 
Bopbraer, George H . . . . 17178, 174.57, 17467 
Bulk's, Lieut. T.Dix 16771, 17057 



INDEXES TO ACCESSION LIST. 



Accession 
niuiibtr. 

Bolter, A 17245 

Jiouilla. Prof. Joso 16508. 17014, 17015 

Boston Society ofNatLonal History. 175U7 

Bowers, Dr. Stcplieu 17059 

Bowiuau, J. B ..10220, 16235, Iti40;5, 16456, 

17640 

Bowsky, M 10503 

Boyd, F.P 10595 

Boye, L. C I(i561 

Brace, A. L 17183 

•Brackett, Col. A. G 17590 

Bradford, \V. K 16808 

Brausford, Dr. J. F 10317,16596 

Brewster, William 10303, 17344, 17508 

Brickensteiu, H. A 17320 

Britt, T.A 10459 

Brittou, Wiley 17379 

Brock, John W 17278, 17348 

Brooks, John 16977 

Brooks, Keuben 17580 

Brooks, W. E 17338 

Brown, A.D 16803 

Brown, Arthur Edwin. (See under 
Zoological Society of Philadel- 
phia.) 

Brown, C. F 10260,17002 

Brown, S. C 16631 

Brown, T.C 16607 

Brown, H.I 16923 

Brown, Joseph H 16505 

Brown, Mrs. M. E 17651 

Bruff, Charles A 16675 

Brumwell, J. H 16090 

Bruno, Giuseppe - 16538 

Bryant, Walter E 10913 

Buhl, H.C 17608 

Bumbaloush, J. F 17500,17617 

Binngardner, E 16781 

Bunker, E. H 17258 

Bureau of Education, Tokyo-.Japan 16311 

Bureau of Ethnology . .16602, 10863, 10870, 

10929,17255,17318 

Burgess, William 10746 

Burke, Clarence 16384 

Burns, Frank ... 10406, 16484, 16735, 10703 

Burns, John J 17503 

Bush and Meyers 17493 

Butler, Mis. Mary E 16328 

Butler, Osceola 17058 

Caldwell, Rev. CM 17522 

Call, R. Ellsworth 1G7G7, 17066, 17208 

Cambria Iron Company 16244 

Camp, John 11 16288 

Cauby, William M 16337 



Aecessio;i 
iinni'uer. 

Canisins, Dr. T 16178, 10>5:> 

Caraiidonis, N 10332 

Carlton, J. 11 UWl 

Carmic.hacl.l'rof. II 17151 

Carroll, E.C 17032 

Carter, Mrs. L'icljnrd 17628 

Carvin.D. S 15374 

Caspary, Prof. R ICf-Vi 

Cassanello, Fill! Ferroc 1G490 

Castleman, T. W 173V4 

Catlin, George L 10014 

Catlin, J. C 16339 

Cawood, Charles 16229 

Central Park Mcn;i.i;<'iie 1(>:'.1 1, 10306, 

10777, 108.;2, l';->(l, lii;)22, 1092-", 
10985, 17131, 17102,17171,17345 

Chamberlain, C.W 10872 

Chambers, W.H. II 17370 

Chaplin, W.F 10698 

Charles City Marble Company 1745G 

Charlton, Davidson 17405 

Charpy, Mons. L 17094 

Chuse, Dr. A. G 17005 

Chatard, Dr. F- M 16931 

Cheney, A. G 106,\S 

Chipiey, John J 16272 

Chivnlaki, Kasimier 10698 

Christy, Robert Miller 17209 

Christy, Thomas 17206 

Cincinnati Society of Natural His- 
tory 17538 

Clanehys, T. J 10015 

Clapp, "Capt. W, H 17407 

Clark, Frank N .17231, 17425 

Clark, Howard L 17144 

Clark, John W 16902 

Clark, Percy 17428 

Clark, W. A 16249 

Clarke, Prof. F. W 17166 

Clayton, J. Benjamin 17334 

Claywell, Robert 10553 

Cleary, Miss Ellen 10959 

Clemens, G. W 17584 

Clements, L. M 16322 

Cleveland, A. B 16528 

Coale, H. K 16:589, 16756, 16792, 

10811,10904,17285 

Coflin, C.E 1(5223 

Collier, Ral ph 17390 

Colorado Smelting Company 172. '0 

Columbia Chemical Works 17210 

Comerford, I. A 17701 

Commissioner of Chiaims 1(5 Vj:',, 1G'.)98 

Commissioner of Mexico ,,.. 10895 



804 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



Accession 
number. 

Commissioner of Venezuela 16682 

Conboie, J.A 17103 

Conklin, W. A. (See under Central 
Park Menagerie.) 

Connable, R., & Son 16732 

Conover, C 17515 

Cook, Prof. George J 16254 

Cook, R.E 17575 

Cooper, William B 17180, 17454 

Coret, E 16546 

Coruack, Miss. L. A. B 16579 

Cornell University 17132 

Coros, Abrabam 16652 

Court, Hamilton 16399 

Cowles Aluminum Company 17353 

Cowles, Mrs. Irene S 17544, 17.561 

Cox, Hon. S. S 17401 

Crabtree, G. M 17168 

Cragiu, F. W 17566 

Craig, William 17587 

Cromerford, I. A 17701 

Cropley, Maurice 16816 

Cromley, Mrs. M. E 16713 

Crowley, P 17215 

Cummins, James F 17241 

Curtis, John L 17615 

Curtiss, A. H 16794 

Dall, Rev. C. H.A 17306 

Dall, Mrs. Caroline H 17429 

Dall, William H 16691,173U6, 17315, 

17430, 17458, 17462, 17491 

Daniel, L. S 17060 

Davidson, A. F 17157 

Dawson, Mrs. Edgar 16905 

D'Berry, L. E 17682 

Doane, James 1 (i772 

Deane, Walter , 17259 

Deatberidge, J. B 16273 

Deering, D. S 1()6S4 

Delaplaiue, W. T 16458 

Deuuison Manufacturing Company. 16232 

Deoveu, S'. O 16320 

Department of Agriculture 16259 

Department of Education 16311 

Department of State 16485-16488 in- 
clusive, 16490-16496, 16498-16501 in- 
clusive, 16515, 16516, 16519-16522, 
16524, 16527, 16529, 16531-16.550, 16560- 
16563, 16572-16575, 16587, 16588, 16590- 
16592, 16599, 16610-16612, 16614-16617, 
16634, 16645-16654, 16658-16660, 16734, 
16786, 16787, 17033-17037 inclusive, 
17040, 17042, 17047, 17392, 17398, 
17443 (17648), 17704. 



Accession 
number. 

DoRosear, Rev. W. H 16622 

DeWitt, Dr. J. L 16441,16455,16974 

Dickinson, J. P 16444 

Diggs, Merediths 17391 

Diller, J. S 17192,17238 

Doane, Captain 16769 

Dodge, A. R 16915 

Dooley, Michael 17598 

Dore, H. E 17509 

Douglas, James F 16210 

Dowell, John 16703 

Dressel, Cuuo and Otto 16645 

Driijps, Isaac 17193 

Drocino, Senor Manuel .. .17002-17012 in- 
clusive. 

Dugfes, Prof. Alfred 16268, 16401 

Dugger, S. M 16404 

Duly, A. A 16473,16504,17323 

Duudore, Lavinia C 16665 

Dunniugton, Capt. C. W 17406 

Dunyou, Newton 16379 

Duvall,H.C 16782 

Duyer & Co 16.537 

Eakius, L. G 17695 

Earl, C.N 17609 

Early, Dr.O. R 16558 

Earli, R. E 16726 

Easley, T. S 17582 

Eaton, Howard 17101 

Eaton, J. M. C 17336 

Ecole des Mi nes 17093 

Edgar, Robert R 17453 

Edwards, C.B 17554 

Edwards, Vinal N-. .. 17058, 17073, 17096, 
17118, 17387, 17483 

Egan, Wm., & Sons 17050 

Eichmann, Tb 16573 

Einstein, Samuel 16633 

Eisen, Gustav 16291, 16474 

Ellis, William A 16349 

EIrod, J.P 16868 

Emerson, Prof. B. K 17271 

Emerson, W. Otto.... 16339, 17124, 17170 

Ethoridge,D. M 17249 

Eustis, W. Tracy 17194 

Evans, W. W 17664 

Everett, H. B 16976 

Everman, B. W 16729 

Fardeu, J. D 16802, 16852 

Felton, Mrs. W. H 17053 

Fisher, H. L 17602 

Flebarty, S. F 16557 

Fleming, R. E 16245 

Flood, Milton J..,,,.., 16960 



INDEXES TO ACCESSION LIST. 



805 



Accession 
number. 

Flood, Dr. T. L l(u()5 

Fliigel, Dr. Fel ix 17:50'.) 

Foley, .James L liuXO 

Foroiiiaii, Mrs. II. M IT^Hi) 

Forester, Thomas, &, Sons I()(i77 

Foster, L. S 1(J280 

Fouchd, CM IfioS.") 

Fowler, Mrs. S. G ir/X)8 

Fox, W. H 16418 

Franks, A. W l(i-214 

Fremerey, Felix lCy222 

Freres, Louit & Co 1666G 

Fresson, William 1(3G60 

Frishmuth, Col. W. E 1631)8 

Fritsch, Dr. Ant 17361 

Fritsch, E 17359 

Fuller, A. N 16744 

Fullmer, Dr. John J 175-21 

Furnas, Hon. R. W 16964, 17069 

Galbraith, F. G 16282 

Gale, Denis 17160 

Galvin, C. D 16942 

Gardner, Samuel 17650 

Garrison, F L 16593 

Gaumer, George F 16875 

Gay, John 17088 

George, Hon. J. Z 17622 

Georgia Marble Company 17190 

Gibbs, Lewis R., Jr 16407 

Gibson, D. H 165.51 

Gilmore, C. M 16231 

Gimsou, Wallis and Co 16603 

Goddard, E. T 16741 

Godden, James 16708 

Godding, Dr. W. W 17459 

Gold, Franks 17.380 

Golden, R. A 17349 

Golden and Smith 172.56 

Golden, William C 17229 

Goode, G. Brown 16788, 16801, 17441 

Goode, Mrs. G. Brown. .17195, 17333, 17427 

Goodman, Bennett B 16287 

Goss, Capt. B. F 17201, 17212, 17233 

Government of Costa Rica 16425 

Government of Jamaica 16865, 16962 

Government of Siam 16795 

Government of Sonora 16997 

Government of Victoria 16530 

Government of Yehimo, Japan 17028 

Gradbr, L. & Hartwig 16614 

Graves, Miles W 1759*;, 17613 

Grawitz, Toepttcr & Co 16613 

Gray, Stephen J 16963 

Grebnitski, N 16S78 



Accession 
iiiiuilx'.r. 

Greely, Lieut. A. W 17147 

Green, Mrs. Edwin 1) 17181 

(;reeu, L. W 163.58, 16718, 17414 

Green, William J 16984, 17163, 17167 

Green, W. S..., 16768 

Greenwood, E. C 16271, 16952, 17265 

17488 

Gridley, Lieut. Comiiiaiidcr C. V.. 16978 

Griffin, G. W 17298 

Grigsby, James M 16.580 

Grimm, C. T 16705 

Gross.D.. & Co 16497 

Guernsey, D. C 17109 

Guesde. L 17654 (17666) 

Guild], Gav Sal. Re, & Sous 16540 

Guilfoyle, W. R 16530 

Gurney, H. D 16981 

Guyniard Silver Lead Company... 17158 

Hachenberg, Dr.G. P 17630 

Hagner, Judge A. H 16314 

iiahn,0 H 17267 

Haiglit.R. J 17546 

Hill, Dr. William 16242 

HalI,Rev W. W 17524 

Halstead M iss May 16402 

Hamilton, William B 16779 

Hamilton, Court 16399 

Hamlin, Dr. F M 16911 

Hamlin, John P 17644 

Hammer, .Tohn C 17552 

Hanks, Prof. Henry G 16243,17314 

Hardin, Prof. M. B 16867 

Hard man, Ayers and ,.. Iij352 

Hargitt, Edward 16730 

Hariug.A. B 16209 

Harris, Gwynn 17371,17419 

Harris, Hon. Isbani G 17.545 

Harris, Johns 16250 

Harris and Schafer 17211 

Harris, William C 17262 

Harrison, S R 17662 

Hartniau,Dr. W. D 16751 

Haskell, J. C (17412) 

Haskin.S. D 16470 

Hassett, Burdetto 16627, 17102 

Havard, V 16688 

Haveuor, W. M 16252, 16956 

Hawaiian Government 17U38 

Hay,0. P 16219 

Hay,Robert 17.520 

Haynos, D. F., & Co I(i971 

Haywood, .Josoi)h A 17.551 

Healy.Capt. M. A 16889 

Ilebert, Jules 167 18, 16893, 17214 



80G 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



Accession 
Dumber. 

Helm, Wiley K 17081 

lleu.shall, Mrs. J. A 1(;2G2 

Heushaw, H. W lOJUl, 173.i7 

Hereford, Frank l(i27G, 1G297 

Herrick, William 1709,'j, 17512 

Hicks, E. D 17191, 17547 

Hiett,F. C 17056 

High Eock Phosphate Mine 16925 

Hililesheim, Miiutlen and 16587 

Hill,F. C 17383 

Hill, W. W 16594, 17303 

Hillobrand, W. F 16817, 17274 

HilIje,G 16429 

Hinsdale, Eev. Dr 16435 

Hipkins, Lewis 16884 

Hirschfelder, C. A 16355 

Hitchcock, C. H 16979 

Hitchcock, Romyn 16822 

Hoare,H. P 17667 

Hobbs, James E 16874 

Hockmau.H. M 17079 

Hodge,E. B 16728,16835 

Hodge, H. G 16723, 16836, 17641 

Hoff,J.D 17247 

Hoffmann, Charles G 16525 

Hoffmeister,C. C 16436 

Hoffstetter, Josejih 17516 

Hoke.E. B 16365 

Holberton,W 17268 

Holcombe, Dr. William F 1G333 

Holdeu, Prof. Edward S 17692 

Holder.Dr. J. B 17135 

Holmes,Dr. J. L 16367 

Horan, Henry 16(397, 17633 

Horn, Mrs. Mabel 16559 

Hornnug,J. H 17089 

Hotcbkiss, Maj . Jed 16264 

Hongh, Myron B. W 16393 

Honse, Kinsley G 16900 

Houston, Samuel H 17408 

Howard, L.O 16351 

Howell, Ward and 17189 

Howell.Dr. W. H 17312 

Hubbard Bros 17272 

Hunter.Dr. J. S - 17502 

Huntiiigtou, Eaudolph 17313 

Hurley, Michael Blennerhasset 16488 

Imperial Academy of Sciences, Rus- 
sia^ 16354 

Indian Industrial School 16331 

Ingersoil, Albert M 16813 

Ingersoll Eock Drill Company 16873, 

17071 
Ingram, H.M 16342 



Accession 
number. 

Irion, John T 16876 

Irwin, Maj. B. J. D I(i392, 17369 

Ivery, Owen & Co 16371 

Jackson, C. E Iu661 

James,H.W.H 17506 

James, Joseph F 17538 

.lames, Stephen 17655 

Janney, E. P 17595 

Jausen, John 17375 

Japanese Commission 16571 

Jefferey, Francis 16228 

Jennings, Allan H 17099 

Jennings, Thomas 16529 

Jensen, John 17325 

Jessup, Franklin C 16701 

Jirdonston, W. C 16431 

Johnson, A. B 16933 

Johnson, Charles W 16894. 17092 

Johnson, J. W 10597,16879 

Johnson, L. C 16265, 1G609 

Johnson, W 17572 

Johnston, W. B 17697 

Jones, E. J 17888 

Jones, G. C 17683 

Jones, John E 17341 

.Tones,Dr. W. H 16321 

Jones, Mrs. W.Hemphill 17331 

Jordan, Prof. D. S 17173 

Jonett, Admiral J. E 17179 

Kaldenberg, F. J 16945 

Karpeles, L 173.56 

Kay ser, William 16755 

Keeler, William A 17158 

Kilmer, C.L 16467 

Kimball, S.J 16483 

King, David 16855 

King, John 16877 

King, Larkin 16938 

King,E.M 17568 

King of the Samoan Islands 16754 

Kirkpatrick, S.J 17606 

Kitterman, George W 16338 

Klages,F.W 17176 

Knaus, Warren 17635 

Knight, W.C 17324,17539 

Knowles.H.M 16469 

Knowlton, William J 16313 

Koebele, A 17311 

Krause, Dr. A 16947 

Krug, Miss Eeynolds 16620 

Kuehling, J. H 17660 

Knmmerlield, T. F 16286 

Kunz, George F .16369, 16434, 17219, 17225 

Lachicotte, F. W 16347 



INDEXES TO ACCESSION LIST. 



807 



Accession 
uumbcr. 

Lager, Louis 1G921 

Lamar, Hon. L. Q. C 1764G 

Lamb.T.F 1G4G5 

Lamson, JoLu S., aud Son 1G8-24, 17085, 

17377 

Lang, John 17148 

Lawlor, John 1G814 

Lawrence, George N. . . 1(;:5G1 , 1G409, 1G838, 

17550 

Lay, H. C.,Jr 1G224 

Leach, Junius P 1G745, 17500 

Leach.M.C 1G348 

Leavit, H. II 17048 

Ledyard.L.W 17601 

LecMrs.F.L 16796 

Lee, J. M 16759 

Lee, K. Palm 17388 

Lee, General Stephen D 16961 

Lee, Thomas 16789 

Leech, Miss Dollio 17473 

Leepley,H.T 16968 

Legro,JohnI 17182 

Lendereg, George W 16671 

Letcher, S. H 16951 

Levi8on,J 16625 

Lewander & Co 16672 

Lewis, Fred L 17525 

Lewis, Dr. J. -Guy 16239, 16500 

Lewis, Thomas 17679 

Leyland Rubber Company 1()543 

Light- House Board 16325 

Lindsley, Dr. J. Berrien 17270 

Lindstrom, Dr. G 16783 

Lineberger, J. M 17116 

Lively,E.A 16815 

Li versidge, Archibald 17084 

Lloyd, William 17125 

Locke, J. H 17143 

Longheed, S. D 17127 

Lonitz, Hugo 16601 

Loomis, M 17468 

Low, Henry M 17685 

Loy, D. S 17129 

Lucaa, F. A 16472,16892 

McCain, William F 17119 

McCaleb, J. L 16298 

McCartee,Dr. D. Bethune.. 16862,17204, 

17382, 17436, 17634, 17657 

McCarthy, Gerald 17260 

McDonald, Col. M 16345, 16400, 

16415, 16440 

McDonald, D. J 17612 

McGee, John W 16301 , 17588 

McGimsey,C. P 16940,17540 



Accession 
number. 

McIlhpnney,Dr. William S 17675 

Mcllwraith, Thomas 16238, 17184 

McKnight,Dr. C. S 16443,16554 

McLain, C. S 16700 

McPhersou.D.H 17535 

McWhirter, A. J 16256 

MacDonald, AV. H 17422 

Macfarlane, C. W 17394 

MacFarlane, Robert 16866, 17196 

Macgowan, D. J 16479 

Milder and Miiller 16496 

Mailing, H. M 1G423 

Mann, Miss Mary E 17411 

Marcou, J. ]? 16475 

Marcy, Oliver 17576 

Marshall, George 16577 

Marso and Weyden 16498 

Marvin D. S 17250 

Mason, Frank H 17042 

Mason, Otis T 16450,16571,16766 

Massier, Clemert 16602 

Matters, James 17154 

Matthews. G. F 16749, 17153 

Matthews, H.E 16830 

Mauk,C. H 17248 

May, William R 17594 

Maynard,C. J 17674 

Maynard, M. L 17117 

Mazyck, W. G -17203 

Meazell, George L 17489 

Medford, Harvey C 17571, 17586 

Meek,SethE 17677 

Menocal, A. G 10317 

Mercer,R. W 17532 

Merchant, Mrs. A. C 16370 

Merriam, C. Hart 16372,16417 

Merrill, Dr. J. C 16377 

Merrill, George P 16427, 16451 , 16696, 

16842, 17478 
Mexican Commission.. 16656, 16G57, 16861, 

16993, 17070 
Mexican Geographical and Explor- 
ing Expedition 16664, 17030 

Meyers, Max 17492 

Mikell, I. Jenkins 17687 

Miller, Benjamin 16460 

Miller, Charles, Jr ....16471,16699,16939, 

17501 

Miller, Henry, W 17352 

Miller, LP 16709 

Miller, Mrs. Oliver T 16236 

Miller, R. M., and Sons 17543 

Mills, Mnj. Anson 17631 

Miutzor, Lieut. William A . . .17403, 17703 



808 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



Accession 
number. 

Mitchell, C.L 17511 

Mitchell, J. H 1C845 

Mitchell, S.S 17533 

Montgomery, William 17210 

Mood,N.W 17523 

Moore & Co 16600 

Morgan, E 17620 

Morgan, M.E 16285 

Morrell, H. K 17152 

Mbrris,D 17234 

Morrison, Mrs. H. K 17559 

Morrison, J. H 17437, 176i»l 

Morrison, W.W lt.284 

Moser, Ludwig 16!)t»l 

Mosher, G.T 16575 

Moyer, Henry C 17130,17507 

Muhlman,A.T 16846 

Mullan, John 16327 

Miiller and Milder 16496 

Munden and Hildesheim 16587 

Murdoch, John 17364 

Mus^e L'Herniiuier 17666 

Museum of Comparative Zoology. 16343, 

16740 

Museum Hans von Berlopsch 17309 

Myers, Squire 17100 

National Academy of Sciences 17423 

National Science Association 16274 

Noal, Dr. J. C 16353,17396 

Nehring,Prof. Dr. A 17150 

Nelson, E. W 16598 

Nelson, G. W 16408 

Nelson, S.J 16844 

Nelson, Dr. Wolfred 16408, 17351 

Netherlands Government 17648 

Neumoegen, B 17078 

Nevins, R. D 17583 

New England Glass Works 17319 

Newlon, Dr. W. S 16800,16841, 17114, 

17217, 17252, 17510, 17553 

Newport Natural History Society.. 16711 

Nez, Hathali 16871 

Nichols, H.E 16743 

Nielsen, Mrs. D. L 16849 

Nihon, Timothy 17504 

Nissley, J.R 17585, 17649 

Noah, John M 16972 

Nohle,F.W 16251,16512 

Nohle.G 17120,17156, 17242 

Noe, Fletcher M 16424, 17142 

Norman, Rev. A. M 17368 

Norris, Dr. Basil 17672 

Null, James M 17340 

Nye, Willard, jr 16277, 16447, 16715 



Accession 
number. 

Oelrichs, George H 16775 

Orcntt, C. R 16346 

Ottaway, John E 16329 

O verholt and True 16308 

Overman,C 17557 

Overton, Dr. W. S 17451, 17477 

Owen,Ivery & Co 16371 

Owen.R. S 16289,16685 

Palmer, Dr. Edward 16919,17111 

Palmer, Hon. Thomas W 17498 

Pahner, William 16632 

Parker, F. 1 16710 

Parker, Dr. W. T 16731, 1(;937 

Parks, Mrs. M 17670 

Parry, John W •... 17020 

Passeuo, Joseph 16785 

Pattangall, Mrs. Fannie 17656 

Patterson, Calhoun 17357 

Peale, Dr. A. C 17354 

Peale, Henry 16654 

Pennsylvania Railroad Company.. 16987, 

17054, 17064 
Perez, Prof. F. Ferrari . . 16664, 16667, 17139 

Perry, N. H 16410 

Perry, T. D 17626 

Peters, Henry 17051 

Phares, Professor 16961 

Pickford, Walter W *. 16925 

Pillmau, J. H 16541 

Plongeon, Dr. Le 16655 

Poe,E. H 17592 

Poey, Felipe 16292 

Police Department, New York 17198 

Pollock, John S 16586, 16623 

Porter, General Fitz John 17198 

Post-Office Department 17569 

Potter, R. H 17610 

Powell, MiijorJ. W. (See Bureau of 
Ethnology and U. S. Geological 
Survey.) 

Power, W 16720 

Powers, H. C 17342,17474 

Pratt, N. P 16246, 16510, 16983 

Prescott, Frank C 16267 

Preston, H. L 16383 

Preston, J. W 16378 

Price, John 17647 

Primrose, W. S 17556 

Pringle, C.G 17200 

Proctor, Prof. J.R 16248, 16669 

Public Museum Institute of Ja- 
maica 17165 

Queensland Museum 16924 

Quinan, A. B 16422 



INDEXES TO ACCESSION LIST. 



809 



Accession 
uuinber. 

Qiiintero, Lamar C 1G425 

Radclitte, C. R 17292 

Kagsdale, G. H 17134 

Ramsey, N. A 17555 

Rami, George M 17542 

Raudall.A. F 17395 

Randolph, Normau V 17452 

Rase, Oliver 1G944 

Rathbun, Richard 1G883 

Rau, Dr. Charles 16736 

Ray, Lieut. P. H , 17239,17688 

Real del Monte Mining Company.. 17013 

Rear, William 16411, 16770 

Reed, F. K 16773 

Reekie, Mrs. E 17455 

Reese, Dr. O. B 17317 

Reiraer, Otto E 17704 

Reushaw, J. H 16943 

Rexibus, P. L 16356 

Rey, Dr. E 16502 

Reynolds, Mrs. Admiral 16620 

Reynolds, Miss Eleanor 16619 

Rhees, William J 17161 

Rice, Prof. William North 17097 

Richmond, Charles W 16812 

Ricksecker, L. E 17636 

Ridgway, Joel 16706 

Ridgway, Robert 16212 (16271), 

16448, 16578, 17281 

Riley, C. V 16738 

Roberts, George W 16761 

Robinson, Chauncey 16799 

Robinson, Russell 16903 

Robinson, Prof. Thomas 17479 

Rock, Miles 16452,16674 

Roddy, W. L.,& Co 17218 

Roesler, F. E 16257, 16295 

Rogan, James W 16216, 16454, 

17536, 17618 

Rogan, John P 16678 

Rogers, Hon. John H 17541 

Rogers, O. P 17413 

Roller, Mat 17.577,17578 

Rosborough, J. B 17518 

Rosecrans, Hon. W. S 17562, 17591 

Rothe, William G 16837 

Ruby, Charles 16397, 17080, 17121 

Rush, Dr. W. H 16340,17068 

Russell, J. C 16581,17122 

Salley, Dr 17627 

Saltonstall, H 17253 

Sampson, F. A 16840 

Sandlin, R. B 16357 

Sargent, Mrs. Epes 16941 



Arcessinn 
iiiiiiilji'i-. 

Savage, D. W. , A. Co 17549 

Sawyer, Dr. E. O ltHS8 

Sawyer, Mrs. F. A 16626 

Sawyer, M. E 16626 

Sayles, Ira 17343 

Sayres, George 17316 

Schafer, Harris and 17211 

Scheffler, F. A 17614 

Schermerhorn, John C 16398 

Scherr, Julius....- 17611 

Schindler, A. Zeno 16910 

Schlegelraich, Erdmanu 16604 

Schley, Thomas 16458 

Schmidt, Charles D.... 16582 

Schneck, J 17282 

Schoeller, Felix Hch 16996 

Sclioffler, W.,& Co 16549,16616 

Schwalb, Carl 16487 

Schwarz, E. A 17304 

Sclater, Dr. P. L 17091,17548 

Scott, Alexander 17450 

Scott, John K 17579 

Scott, Samuel 16390, 17074 

Scott Stamp and Coin Co 17378 

Sebring, W. H 17027 

Scebohm, Henry 16324, 16989 

Sellers, George E 17329 

Sellers, John, & Sons 17705 

Sener, S. M 16211 

Sessford, Joseph 17328 

Settles, J.G 16391 

Shackelford, Mrs. R, B 17432 

Sharp, LewisR 16241 

Sharpe, R. Bowlder 16810, 16885 

Sharpies, R. P 16917 

Shaw, W.B 17402 

Shelley, Hon. CM 16299 

Shepard, A. R 17294 

Shepard, C. W 17063 

Shepard, James 17105 

Shepley, B. A 17603 

Sheridan, Lieut. Gen. P. H 16717 

Shoup, Col. George L 16247,16433 

Shiiver, Howard 16386 

Shufeldt, Lieut. M. A., U. S. Navy . . 16307 

Shufoldt,Dr.R.W.,U. S. Army ....16215, 

16221, 16360, 16364, 16446, 1(;793, 16819, 

16901,17110,17671,17680 

Shufeldt, Commodore R. W 17442 

Shiipiug, Mrs. Filing 17517 

Sionknecht, Theo 1(5462 

Siman.H 16982,16988 

Simonson,J 16305 

Simpmm, Charles T 16630,16869 



810 



REPORT ON NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1886. 



Accession i 
number. I 

Siuks, Mrs. Julia 17519 | 

Skinner, T. E IG4(;;J, 1G431 j 

Slaney, Ricliard l(j()7(> 

Smith, Frank 164-28 

Smith, H. M 16283, 16376, UWO'.i, 17035 

Smith, James W 17293 

Smith, John B. . 16420, 16665, 17077, 17221 

Smith, Dr J. B 17236 

Smith, K.Q 16318,16380 

Smith,L.H 17534 

Smith, Middleton 16280 

Smith, Miss Rosa 16218, 17632, 17642, 

17653 
Smith, Sanderson ...... 16449, 16821, 16854 

Smith, W 16899 

Smith, W.A 17061 

Smithsonian Institution 16897 

Smitt,F. A 16477 

Snow, Dr.T. S 16896 

Snyder, George W 17385 

Soci6t6 Anonyme 16569 

Sonora, Governor of 16997 

Spainhour, J. M 16341,17307 

Spangler, George 16430 

Spaugler.T. F 16946 

Sparrow, B. C 16483 

Spatcier, Prof. N 16253 

Spaulding, E. W 17607 

Spelman, James J 16955 

Spence, W.A 16965 

Spindel, Isaac 16335 

Spragne, Horatio J 16468 

Stalker, B. F 17599, 17693 

State of Arkansas 16509 

State of Minnesota 16511 

St. Clair Mineral Spring Com- 
pany 17669 

Stearns, Frederick, & Co 16818, 16839, 

16847, 17199, 17275, 17469, 17616 

Stearns, R. E. C 16300, 16309, 16394 

Stearns, Silas 17141,17177 

Steedman, I. G. W 16826 

Stej neger, Dr. L 17185, 17244, 17389, 

17465 

Stephens, A. M 17347 

Stephens, F 17376 

Stephens, W. H 16266 

Sterling, Dr. E 17581 

Steuart, C. A 16387 

Stevenson, Col. James {see Bureau 

of Ethnology 17645 

Stewart, Thomas R 16739 

Stickley, Worth 16476 

Stillwell, CO 16935 



Accpssion 
uumber. 

Stone, D wight D 16992 

Stone, Livingston 174^4 

Stonestreet, George D 17159 

Streets, T.H 16890 

Stuart, Harry 16798 

Stuart, J.andW 16544 

Studebaker «& Bro 16809 

Studer, Maj. A. G 16555, 16640 

Sutherland, John 16350 

Sutton, W. P 16860 

Swan, James G 16405, 16683 

Swash, J.C 16255 

Swecny,T.W 17227 

Swint, MissMollieO 17526 

Symons, Captain Thomas W 16589 

Tammeu,H.n 17269 

Taunt, Lieut. E. H 17986 

Taussing, Mrs.A 17356 

Taylor, Emzy 16439 

Taylor, Fred W . . . .' 17330 

Taylor, J. A 16625 

Taylor, W. Edgar 17570 

Teal, M.A 16966 

Thompson, Edward 17416 

Thompson, N.A „ 16323 

Tinoco and Volio 17499 

Tison,AV.H l().-s33 

Toeptier, Grawitz & Co 16613 

Tolbcrt, George H 17470 

Tomschik, M. P., & Son 16722 

Torrey, Dr. H. G ..., 16432 

Townsend, C. H 16914,17146, 

17444, 17690 

Townsend, James R 16461 

Trigg, J. S 17456 

True, F. W . ., 16416, 17438 

True, I. G 16850 

True, Overhdt & Co 16308 

Trumfour, D 16898 

Turner, H. W 16707, 17439 

Turner, Jesse J 17186 

Turner, L. M 16363, 16727 

Turpiu,T.J 17629 

Tweedy, Frank 17261 

Ulke, T 16368 

U.S. Coast Survey 17115 

U. S. Fish Commission 16334, 16689, 

16712. 16716, 16737, 16760, 16778, 

(16789), 16804, 17140, 17205, 17264, 

17291, 17399, 17400, 17431 

U. S. General Land OtBce 16213 

U. S. Geological Survey, 16227, 16265, 

ir,i;()9, 16797, 16870, 17122, 17138, 

17166, 17169, 17172, 17192, 17261, 



INDEXES TO ACCESSION LIST. 



811 



Accession 
number. 

U. S. Geological Survey— Cont'd. 

17274, 17283, 17284, 173U1, 17:117, 

17327, 17365, 1736(5, 17447, 17448, 17497 

Upton, Joseph 17623 

Valentine, R 1*3724 

Van Buren, Tbouias B 16514 

Van Cleef, Dr.A 16517 

Wade, C.J 17175 

Wakeuian, J. W 17133 

Walcott, C D.. .16783, 16807, 17283, 17288 

Walker, J. and C 16270 

Walker, John K 17104, 17277, 17702 

Walker, John T 17335 

Walker, S. A 17228 

Walker, S. F 16999 

Walker, W. H 16969 

Wallace, Charles ..-. 17529 

Walter, Sam nel P 16263 

Ward and Howell 17189 

Ward, James A 16336 

Ware,T. M., & Co 17514 

Waring, C. H 16258 

Warren, Dr. B. H 16780, 17149 

Watkins, Eev. David F 17295 

Watkius, G. W 16891,16934,17703 

Watson, Janaes 16834 

Watson, John 17490 

Wayne, Arthur T 16576 

Weaver, Mrs. L. A 17188 

Webb, John S 16310, 17582, 17593 

Wedgwood & Co 10605 

Weeden, W. C .16373, 16385, 17689, 17699 

Weideubach, Henry 17449 

AVeimar, John J 16234 

Weisbach, R. Jacob 17643 

Welch, Dr. L. B 16489 

Wells, Dr. R. M 17600 

West Prussian Provincial Museum. 17638 

Wetherby, Prof. A, G 16857, 17067 

Wharton, Joseph 16315 

Whatly, M. W 17495, 1 7597 

Whedon, C. R 17360 

Wheeler, Koswell S.Jr 16967,17112 

Whitconib, Oliver 17537 

White, Dr. C. A 17289 

White, C. S 17086 

White, H 16629 

Whitehead, T. L 17589 

Whit lock, John T 16330 

Wiggins, John B 16480 

Wilcox, W. A 16918, 17337 



Accession 
u umber. 

Wild, Mrs. Edward A 16784 

Wiley, Capt. William 17337 

Wilkinson, E 16621,17481 

Willcox, Joseph 16764, 16829, 16931, 

16932, 17424 

Williams, F. H 1()624 

Williams, Capt. John 16482, 16790 

Williams, W. L 16316 

Williniantic Linen Company 17310 

Wilmington Oil and Leather Com- 
pany 17445 

Wilmot, Samuel 16687 

Wilson, M 16583, 17052 

Wilson, Col. P. M 16294,16506 

Wilson, Thomas 16233, 16442, 16864 

Wilson, W. F 17530 

Wilson, Hon. W. L 17505 

Wiltse, Jerome 17673 

Winchcll, Prof. N. H.. 16457, 16511, 17035, 

17226 

Wing, Miss M. E 16412 

Winter, John F 16549 

Witzel, Frederick 16805 

Wolcott, Allen D 16445,17237 

Wolff, C. W 16859 

Woltz, G. W 17440 

Women's Art jNIuseum Associa- 
tion 16362 

Women's Silk Cultural Associa- 
tion 17574 

Woodcock, Albert 1(5787 

Woodruff, Lewis B 16916 

Woolfe, Henry D 16827 

Wooster, A. F 16908, 17355, 17415, 

17421, 17475, 17.)13 
Worthen, Charles K... 16319, 16414, 17362 

Wright, D. W. M 16419 

Wright, J. W. A 17494 

Wylie, G 17420 

Yarrow, Dr. H. C 16752 

Yeates, W. S 16507 

Yeatmaii, W 17372 

Yehime, Commissioner for 17028 

Yerkley, A. L 16693 

Young, I. C 16279 

Zabriskie, Rev. J. L 17128, 17155 

Zantzinger, D. W 16692, 16721 

Zeledon, Jos6 C 17305 

Zoological Society of Pliiiadelphia. 16:512, 
16:>75, 16618, 1(1820, 1(>851, 17098, 
17197, 17290, 17460, 17700 



INDEX 



Page. 

Abbott, A. N., archasological speciiiieus received from = 54 

gives fulgurite tubes 2;'>9 

Abbott, Dr. Charles C, sends paleolithic implements 101 

Abert, Col. J. T., sends specimens .'j') 

Abori>^inal American pottery, review' of work in department of 13 

pottorj-, classification of collection of _ !t8 

important accessions of 'J7 

Academy of Natural Sciences sends specimens of meteorite 2:57 

Accessions, by departments 71)8 

by locality .* 71)5 

by name of sender 802 

geographical review of 50 

list of '. 701 

Africa, accessions from 50 

ethnological collections from 95 

Agassiz, Alexander, collection of deep-sea fishes from 17 

co-operation of 20;i 

Aguilera, Senor Josd G., presents cretaceous fossils 229 

Aht Indians of Vancouver Island, fish-hook used by i)l 

Alabama, accessions from 51 

archaiological material from 14 

specimens from 103 

Alaska, accessions from 51 

archa'ological implements from 108 

Commercial Company case for fur seals presented by 148 

Albatross, steamer, birds collected by 15 

collections from Bermuda 62 

explorations of 204 

fishes from the Bahamas collected by 169 

marine invertebrates collected by 20, 199 

reptiles from the Bahamas collected by 165 

" Albert," dissection of the elephant, and shipment to Washington 44,45 

Aldrich, Charles, presents stone pestle 108 

Aleutian Islands, ethnological objects from 91 

Algeria, marble slabs from 50 

Allen, Dr. J. A., examines skull of Spcrmophilun tcretiraudns 212 

Amblystomas sent by Dr. R. W. Shufeldt 165 

American Institute of Jlining Engineers, collection of 245 

presents building stones 239 

Master Mtujlianics, convention of association in 1885 123 

Museum of Natural History, collections sent to the 27 

preparation of building stones for 240 

Society of (Jivil Engine»^rs, convention of 123 

Taxidermists, exhibit of Society of 45 

813 



814 INDEX. 

Page. 

American Ornithologists' Uuiou, check-list of 157 

Animal products, collection of 11 

exhibit at New Orleans Exhibition 78 

Anthony, A. W., jiresents birds' eggs 1G3 

Antilles, ethnological objects from 94 

Arabia, ethnological objects from 94 

Arcbtcology collection, condition of 112 

objects, important accessions of 101 

report on department of 101 

review of work in department of 14 

Argentine Republic, hair mats from 94 

Arizona, accessions received from 52 

arclia'ological collection from 108 

Arkansas, accessions from 52 

arch;eological spe'cimens from 14 , 107 

Armstrong, C, presents specimeiis of white jasper 105 

specimens received from 54 

Art exhibit at New Orleans Exhibition 76 

Arts and industries, review of -work in department of 10 

Ashburner, C. A., on properties of American coals 248 

Asia, accessions received from G3 

ethnological collections from 94 

Asia Minor, Grecian bowl from 94 

Atkins, G. , notice of paper by G75 

Atwater, Prof. W. O 76 

revised plan for food collection by 10 

Auckland Museum, exchanges -with 28 

Australia, photographs from 95 

Australian Museum, exchanges with 28 

Austria, accessions received from 64 

Avery, John M. , sends specimens of salt 55 

Aym6, Louis H., forwards collections from Mexico ()2, 109 

Baffin Land, ethnological objects from 91 

Bailey, E. JI., sends minerals 56 

Bailey, J. W., i)ali,eontological publications of 31 

Bailey, S. C. IL, sends specimens of meteorites in exchange 237 

Baird, Prof. S. F., contributes to library 25 

favors extajiding scope of Museum 5 

nominates Professor Goode to represent Smithsonian Insti- 
tution at the New Orleans Exposition 70 

on distribution of duplicates 26 

presents a rare petrel 153 

superintends summer work of Fish Commission at Wood's 

Holl ^06 

Baker, A. 15., collects black-footed ferrets 147 

sends skeletons -'ja 

Baldwin, A. H., assistant ~02 

Barbary States, ethnological objects from 9i> 

Barker, Commander A. S., collects deep-sea specimens 200 

Barnes, Lieut. Charles, works in osteological laboratory 33 

Barnum, Bailey & Hutchinson, mammals presented by 147 

Barnum, P. T., presents elephant "Albert" 44 

Barnum's men.agerie, gifts from 15 

Barrows, C. J., sends Indian objects ^5 



INDEX. 815 

raj;e. 

Barflett, Edward, bird-skins received from ., 1,'):} 

sends land shells from Madagascar 173 

Batchelder, Charles F., birds received from , 153 

Batty, J. H., sends an owl r>3 

Beall, William, sends ores and minerals 5U 

Beall, William, sends minerals r>4 

Bean, Dr. Tarleton H., chairman of committee on publications :!1 

editor of Proceedings and Bulletins 17 

honorary curator of tishes l(j, 1()7 

notice of papers by (;7.'i, (wG 

sends arcbieological objects 5'J 

sends zoological specimens &(> 

studies lislies collected b}' steamer J!h(il)-o\s 2U(J 

Beauvais tapestry received 28 

Becker, George A., sends arclneological specimens 51 

Beckham, Charles W., notice of papers by (iTd 

Be<;kwith, Mrs. II. C, presents fossil plants 231 

Beldiug, L., presents birds 153 

Belgium, accessions received from 64 

ethnological objects from 'J4 

Btdla Bella Indians of British Columbia, specimens of basketry received from. 91 

Bendire, Cai)t. Charles E., honorary curator of birds' eggs 16, 163 

presents birds' egjjs 1G3 

presen ts bird-skins 133 

sends bird-skins and other objects 57 

fishes 167 

reptiles ] 65 

snow-shoes from the Adirondacks 'J3 

specimens from Montana and Arizona G7 

Benedict, James E., collections made by (][) 

collects birds' nests and eggs on Bahama Islands 163 

co-operation of 20.! 

presents birds 153 

Bengal tiger, presented to Museum 45 

Bering Sea, shells from , 17 

Berlepsch, Count Hans v., birds received from 153 

Berlin, A. F., sends archieological specimens 59, 102 

Berlin, preparation of exhibit for 24 

Bernadou, Ensign J. B., presents ornamental stones from Corea 239 

sends collections from Corea. 63, 68 

fishes 167 

Berry, N. H., sends minerals .56 

Bethnal Green Museum, food collection in ]0 

Beyer, Di-. Henry G., honorary curator of materia medica 10, 143 

notice of papers by 676, 677 

Bibliograi)hy of U. S. National Museum 671 

Biddle, Henry J., examines ores 33 

presents specinuMis of serpentine 239 

sends geological spe(;imens 59 

volunteer assistant 24() 

Bigelow, Otis, sends ethnological material from the East iV.) 

Bigelow, Itobert P., sends arclneologiral specimens 102 

Billings, Dr. J. S., delivers a lecture 34 

Binney, William G., Museum Bulletin (No. 28) by 29 

notice of papers by 677 



81 G INDEX. 

Page, 

Biography, papers relating to 31 

Biological Society, meetings of 35,36,37 

Bird exhibit at New Orleans Exhibition 79 

Birds, alcoholic series of 162 

distribution of 156 

eggs, important contributions of I63 

number of specimens in collection of 164 

report on department of 163 

review of work in department of 16 

exhibition series of \ 161 

families of, represented in reserve-skin series 159 

list of important contributions of 153 

papers on 31 

papers prepared for publication 158 

report on department of 153 

review of work in department of 15 

Black, A. C, sends arch;e<)logical specimens 54 

Blackburn, Miss Dottie, sends reptiles 165 

Black, Dr. E. C, sends arijhieological objects 54, 105 

Blackford, E. G., sends a Jew-fish 167 

fishes 59 

Blackman, O. A., sends geological specimens 55 

Blake, J. Henry, sends parasitic copepods 56 

Blakiston, Captain, collection of birds presented by 157 

Block for holding bottles in department of insects, description of 186 

Bloomingdale Graphite Company sends minerals 58 

Boardman, George A., skulls sent to 212 

Bolles, Lieut. T. Dix, assigned to duty in Museum 13 

assists in arrangement of Eskimo collection 89 

presents Eskimo carvings 51 

renders assistance 33 

sends ethnological specimens from Alaska 68 

Bolter, A., Lepidoptera sent by 188 

Botany, review of work in department of 21 

Bouv^, T. T., presents eruptive rocks 239 

Bowerbank, Dr., British sponges described by 20 

Bowman, J. R., sends birds 58 

Brackett, Col. A. G., sends a nocturnal hawk-moth 68 

zoological specimens 60 

Branner, Dr. J. C 196 

Bransford, Dr. J. F., presents reptiles from Nicaragua 165 

sends natural history collections from Nicaragua 68 

Bremen Geographical Society, expedition of 173 

Brevoort, J. C, contributes books 25 

Brewster, William, sends zoological specimens 58 

Bristol Bay, ethnological objects from 91 

British America, accessions from 51 

Guiana, ethnological objects from 94 

Museum sends birds 15 

Britt, T. A., presents minerals .. 54 

Britton, Wiley, sends fossil shells 57 

paleozoic fossils 221 

Brock, John W., presents a potstoue bowl 102 

sends fossil corn 59 

Brooks, Prof. W. K., delivers a lecture .., 34 



INDEX. 817 

Page. 

Brooks, W. E., preseuts set of volumes of " Stray Feathers" 150 

Brown, Arthur Edwiu, inesents birds in tbo flesh 154 

sends uiauiinals 147 

Brown, C. F., sends minerals 52,237 

Brown, Herbert, notice of paper by G78 

Brown, H. I., sends minerals 53 

Brown, J. T., collects specimens of coal and impliments used in coal-mining. .. 82 

death of 7 

leceives instruction m plioto<j;raphy 33 

Brown, N. H., sends insects 61 

Brown, S. C, in charge of transportation ■. 7 

Brufl', Charles A., contributes serpents 53 

Brum well, J. H., sends ores 61 

Bryant, Walter E., notice of paper by 678 

Buchanan, S. H., sends minerals 53 

Buckelew, Col. I. S., presents iron plates from hull of the New Jersey 122 

section of railroad track 121 

Buffalo, exploration for 45 

Building and ornamental stone, catalogue and hand-book of the 277 

Bumgardner, E., sends zoological specimens 55 

Bumpus, H. C, preseuts reptiles 59 

Bunker, E. H., sends specimen of argentine 167 

Burchell's zebra, presented to Museum 45 

Bureau of ethnology, archieological collections obtained through 105, 106 

collections received from 69 

ethnological collections received from 90 

Engraving and Printing sends a collection of engraving material.. 67 

Navigation, marine invertebrates contributed through 69 

Burke, Clarence, sends birds .53 

Burns, Frank, collects minerals and ethnological objects 51 

sends fossils 60, 221 

Burns, John J., sends minerals 61 

Bush and Meyers, send ores 57 

Bush, Miss Katharine J., assistance of 203 

notice of paper by 678 

California, accessions received from 52 

Call, Prof. R. Ellsworth presents minerals 237 

mollusks ,59 

Canada, accessions from 51 

Canadian Geological Survey, exchanges with 28 

Canby William N., presents recent plants 233 

Canterbury Museum, exchanges with 28 

Caraudouis, N., sends ancieut Grecian objects 63 

Carlide Patterson, U. S. Coast Survey steamer, marine invertebrates collected 

by 200 

Carlton, J. H., presents a large collection of arcineological objects lOi^ 

stone implements purchased from .52 

Carnivora, mounted for exhibition 46 

specimens of, obtained for Museum 47 

Carswell, James 77 

Carter, Mrs. Richard, sends zoological specimens 55, 188 

Carvin, D. S., presents a platform pipe 107 

Cases and fixtures in Nation.al Museum 42 

Catalogue entries in Museum r(igisters ,, , 9 

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 515 



818 INDEX. 

Page. 

Cenozoic fossils, departmeut of 21 

report on department of 173 

Census of collections 8 

Central America, accessions received from 62 

ethnological collections from 94 

Central Park menagerie, gi fts from 15 

Cetaceans presented to mammal department 148 

Cliadbourne, Arthur P., notice of paper by G78 

Chamberlain, C. W., seiuls birds 51) 

Chambers, W. H. H., presents flint implements 100 

Charles City Marble Company, sends Madrepore marble 5^ 

Charpy, M., collection of foreign rocks received from -. 239 

Charpy, M., exchanges with 28 

sends mesozoic fossils in exchange 228 

Chase, Dr. A. R., sends vertebrate fossils 55 

Chatard, Dr. F. M., send geological specimens 56 

Chemistry, papers relating to 31 

Cheney, A. N., sends Atlantic salmon 167 

Cheney, A. G., zoological contributions made by .<,. 58 

Chester, Capt. H. C, continues experiments 202 

Chief clerk, National Museum 42 

China, ethnological objects from 94 

Chiriqui, collection of pottery fi'om 14 

collections, paper on 98 

Christy, Robert Miller, presents mollusks 173 

Church, Daniel T., sends specimen of menhaden 167 

Cincinnati Industrial Exposition, exhibit of Smithsonian Institution at 70 

preparation of exhibit for 24 

Circular letter concerning the organization of section of steam transportation. 123 

Clapp, W. H., sends fossils 60 

Clark, A. Hovrard, in charge of publications 7 

notice of papers by 679 

Clark, F. N., sends whitefish 167 

Clark, W. A., sends ores 57 

Clarke, J. M., notice of papers by 679 

Clarke, Prof. F. W 81 

catalogue of meteorites by 255 

honorary curator of minerals 22,236 

lecture by 34 

notice of papers by 679 

Clay well, Robert, sends ores 58 

Cleveland, President, specimens from 67 

Coale, H. K., birds received from 154 

Coals, examination of 246 

papers on 248 

plan for investigation of 249 

Coast Survey, contributions from 67 

Coffin, C. E., sends geological specimens 56 

Cognot's steam road locomotive, 1770 132 

Coins and medals, collection of 12 

Colin, A., makes models of Sioux chiefs... 9J 

Collections, census of 8 

condition of the 7 

installation of H 

principles of {UTaugement of ...,.,.,., , ,,.,....,...,. 84 



INDEX. 819 

Pago. 

Collins, Capt. Joseph W '^l' 

notice of jiapers by (w 9 

Colorado, accessions received from Tj^ 

Comparative anatomy, additions to exhibition series in department of 211 

extent of collection 212 

list of cases in nse in department of 210 

report on department of 209 

revieu' of work in the department of 20 

Comstock, Professor I'JS 

Condition and progress of National Museum 3 

Confederate relics in Museum Vi 

Conklin, Dr. W. A., presents in animals 147 

skeleton o( Ci/nopilhccus iiif/cr 210 

Connecticut, accessions received from 53 

Conrad, F. A., paLneontological publications of ' M 

Cook, Prof. George J,, seiuls minerals . y>S 

Co-operation of Government Departments and Bureaus 66 

Cope, Prof. E. D., prepares report on the reptiles of North America 16 

reptiles sent for study to 165 

studies reptiles 33 

Corea, eihnological collections fioni 95 

Cornell University, Lower Cambrian fossils received from 219 

Correspondence and reports, department of 44 

Corwin, U. S. revenue steamer, collects marine invertebrates 173,200 

Cory, Charles B., notice of paper by 679 

Couper, William, receives insects for study 197 

Cox, Hon. S. S., presents Egyptian mummy 50,67 

Cox, AVilliam Van Zant, chief clerk 7, 42, 73 

notice of paper by 679 

Crane, William, receives instructions in taxidermy o3 

Crawford, I. A., sends minerals and ores 61 

Cretaceous fossils presented by Seilor Jos6 G. Aguilera 229 

Crittenden, A. R. , sends travertine 239 

Cropley, Maurice, seuds fishes 60 

Crosby, Prof. W. O., sends rocks and minerals 56, 239 

Crowley, P., sends opium outllt from San Francisco 92 

Cuba, photographs from - 94 

Curators, annual reports of 85 

Dakota, accessions received from 53 

Dall, Mrs. C. H., contributes marine shells 62 

Dall, Willam 11 80 

honorary curator of mollusks and cenozoic fossils 17,21, 173 

notice of papers bj- 679,680,681 

liresents Indian objects 59 

presents model of a Madras catamaran 63 

sends fossil plants 58 

studies upon deep-sea mollusks 18 

Dana, J. D., pakcontological publications of :jl 

Deane, James, sends birds 60 

Deering, D. S., sends silicified coral 221 

De Long, memorials of his expedition .; 12 

Destruction of Museum pests 88 

Dewey, Fred P 82 

curator of metallurgy and economic geology 23,245 

notice of papers by ...,., .,,,,.,.,., ,,,.,.,.,,.,, 681 



820 INDEX. 

DeWitt, J. L., sends arclii«ological objects 61, 107 

Diller, Prof. J. S., sends rocks ^no 

Dimccodon jnlirosMs 150 

Distribution of duplicate specimens 26, 21 

District of Columbia, accessions received from 5:5 

Doane, Captain, sends lisbes 56 

Dobsou, Dr. G. E., information given to 151 

Dodge, A. R., sends mammal 56 

Dodge, 0. H., receives instruction in pbotograpby 33 

Donaldson, Thomas, deposits a series of turquoise from New Mexico 238 

Dooley, Michael, sends geological specimens 56 

Doty, William F., sends ores 53 

Dowell, Jobn, jireseuts birds 60 

Drew, S. H., exchanges with 28 

Dripps, Isaac, drawings of locomotives presented by 121 

presents model of early screw propeller 122 

Dug^s, Prof. Alfred, presents birds 154 

sends coleoptera from Mexico 187 

fishes from Mexico 167 

natural history collections 62 

reptiles from Mexico 165 

Dugger, S. M., sends ores 58 

specimen of flexible sandstone 23i) 

Dundore, Miss LaviniaC, sends larva of bot-3y 187 

Duuuiugton, C. W., sends military relic 61 

Duplicate material distributed 26,27 

Do vail, H. C, presents a boat-shaped object 103 

sends Devonian fossil 221 

pierced tablet 59 

Dybowski, explorations of 30 

P^akins, L. G., sends meteoric iron 58 

Earll, K. Edward 73,74,75,83 

in charge of collection of animal products 11 

fisheries collection 11 

report of 70 

Early, Dr. E. O., sends specimens of Eristalis tenax 187 

Eaton, J. M. C, sends zoological specimens 57 

Echini, arrangement of 20 

from the Bahamas, identification of 203 

ficolc des Mines, exchanges with .'.. 28 

mi nerals from 22 

Editorial work of Dr. T. H. Bean 171 

Edwards, Vinal N., sends marine invertebrates 199 

specimens of Apeltea qiiadraciis 167 

Edwalds, William H., butterfiies lent to 197 

Egypt, ethnological objects from 95 

Ehreuberg, C. G., paheontological publications of 31 

Eigcnmann, Carl H., notice of paper by 681 

Eisen, Gustav, sends fishes and birds 53 

Electric service in National Musneui 41 

Elephant "Albert," dissection of 44 

Elk Monntai ns of Colorado, model of 243 

Ellis, J. Frank, services rendered by 77 

Elrod, J, P., sends ores ,.^, ...,....., .,., , 54 



INDEX. 821 

Page. 

Emerson, Prof. B. K., exchanges rocka 5(> 

sends rocks and marble slabs 239 

England, accessions received from 64,94 

English locomotive, description of 120 

Enterprise, deep-sea sonudiugs made by 20 

marine invertebrates collected by <)9 

spe^;imens of deep-sea soundings collected by 200 

Entomological Society, meetings of 37 

Ericsson, Captain 122 

Eskimo areas, ethnological collections froni _ 91 

collection, arrangement of 13 

objects in National Museum 95 

Etheridge, D. M., sends specimens of Hexaiichus fjriseiis 1<)8 

Ethnological exhibit at New Orleans Exhibition 75 

Ethnology, accessions to the department of 91 

papers on -^ 31 

report on department of 87 

review of work in department of _ 13 

Eureka district of Nevada, model of 244 

Europe, accessions received from 64 

ethnological collections from 94 

Evans, W. W., sends block of tufa 109 

Evermann, Barton W., notice of paper by 6Sl 

sends specimens — 55, 104 

Exclianges, department of 21) 

Exchequer tally presented by A. W. Franks 64,94 

Executive clerk, National Museum 44 

Exhibition hall of mammal department, changes in.. 148 

series, development of 24 

Experimental gardens in Sweden 66 

physiology, papers relating to 31 

Explorations for collecting marine invertebrates 204 

Farden, J. D., sends zoological specimens 56 

Faxon, Walter, notice of paper by 681 

Ferrari -Perez, Prof. Fernando 33 

completes research upon birds of Mexico 16 

exchanges with 29 

sends Mexican insects 188 

Fewkes, J. Walter, co-operation of 203 

notice of i)apers by 681 

Fibers, microscopical mounts of - 116 

Finkelnburg, W. A., Trenton limestone fossils received from 221 

Fisheries and tish-cultural exhibit at New Orleans Exhibition 76 

collection, development of 11 

papers on 31 

Fishes, collectious of, identified •. 17(1 

distribution of duplicate 170 

important contributions of 167 

list of drawings of 171 

number of 8p('cini(M)s in collection of 172 

papers on 31 

received during the year, identification of 170 

report on department of 167 

review of work in department of 16 

Fleharty, S. F., sends fossil bones 57 



822 INDEX. 

Vase. 

Fleiniug, R. E., seuds minerals r>3 

Flooil, Miltou J., seuds specimens 56 

'•Flora of the Yellowstone National Park" 23:5 

Florida, accessions received from 53 

Foley, James L. , sends specimens 53 

Food collection 10 

Foods and textiles, conditiou of collections of 118 

Foods, report on section of 117 

Fort Chimo, ethnological objects from 91 

Foreign exchanges 27 

Fossil plants, report on department of 231 

Fossils, papers relating to , 31 

Fowke, Gei'ard, sends a large archieological collection 104 

Fox, D. W. H. , birds received from 57, 154 

France, accessions received from ()5 

collection of fishery implements from 11 

ethnological objects from 94 

Franklaud, Miss B. , clerk 241 

Franklin, Sir John, memorials of expedition of 12 

Franks, A. W., presents an exchequer tally G4 

Frishmuth, Col. William, presents specimens of aluminum 245 

Fritsch, E., seuds Algerian marbles 239 

Fuller, A. M., sends zoological specimens 55 

Fullmer, Dr. J. J., seuds a grooved stone for examination 102 

Fulton's Clermont, sketch of 122 

Furnas, Hon. E. W., sends ethnological specimens from Sioux Indians 92 

plants 57 

Galbraith, F. G., contributes zoological specimens 59 

Gale, Deuis, presents nest aud eggs of Citictus Mexicaitus 163 

Galls and gall insects 194 

Garrard, I., sends head of Jisox nohUior 168 

Garrison, F. L., notice of paper by 6S1 

paper by „ 24() 

presents photographs of sections of iron and steel 245 

Gaumer, George F., sends bird-skins 62 

Geare, R. I,, executive clerk 44 

in charge of correspondence and reports 7 

Gem collection in the National Museum, paper on the 267 

Gems received by gift 237 

on deposit 238 

George, Hon. James L., sends botanical specimens 56 

Georgia Marble Company sends specimens of marble 239 

Germany, accessious received from 65 

ethnological objects from 94 

Gibson, D. A., sends geological material 60 

Gill, Theodore, notice of paper by 681 

Gobelins tapestry received 28 

Godden, James, sends fishes <jO 

Godding, Dr. W. W., sends a black bear 69 

Godman, F. Du Cane, notice of paper by 682 

Golden, R. A., sends land-locked salmon 168 

Gold, Frank P., sends insect 60 

Goode, G. Brown, appointed representative of Smithsonian Institution at New 

Orleans Exhibition 70 

notice of papers by 682 

• 



INDEX. 823 

Page. 

Goodc, G. Brown, ofganlzcs Ktufil' for New Orlejins Exposition 73 

ornamental plate deposited by '•^'-^'^ 

stndies iislies collected by steamer Albatross 20(J 

Goss, Capt. J5. F., birds' nests and eggs received from l'» ' 

Grand Canou of tlie Colorado, model of ^^■^ 

Grant, General, gifts of foreign Governments to 1'-^ 

Gray, Asa, notice of paper b j^ ^ - - 

Great Britain, collection of fishery implements from H 

Grebuitzkl, N., sends fishes from the Commander Islands lf>'^ 

marine invertebrates '-^00 

moUnsks from the Commander Islands 173 

whale skull and skeleton 1''8 

zoological collections •^'-' 

Greece, collection of fishery implements from H 

Greek and Roman coins presented to the Mnseum l"-^ 

Greely, General A. W., contributes bones of walrus and bear brt 

Greenland, ethnological objects from ''''^ 

Green, L. W., sends ethnological specimens '^'- 

Green, M. P. and M. E l-l 

Green, W. L., sends zoological specimens ■•' 

Greenwood, E. C, sends an owl ''"^ 

birds '^^ 

Griffiu, Hon. G. W., sends Australian wool .- *'>'' 

Grimm, C. T., collects specimen of fcetal pygmy sperm whale T)?, 14S 

Guadalajara potter, outfit of a -'-^ 

Guatemala, arclmsological specimens from 1'^*^ 

Guesde, M. Louis, jiresents birds - l'>4 

Guiilemard, F. H. H., notice of pap(!r by 682 

a ulf of Mexico, relief map of '^^'^ 

Gurney, H. D., sends block of red granite '-^^-^ 

rocks !J<i 

Haast, Dr. Julius von, exchanges with ~'^ 

Hachenberg, Dr. G. P., sends geological material ^^ 

Hahn, O. H., sends minerals -^^ 

Haida Indians, implements and ornaments of, received I'i 

Haight, R. J., sends zoological specimens '- •^'•^ 

Ilaideman, Minister, pn'seuts fishery objects for Siamese Government 11 

Hall collection of paleozoic fossils -'-^'^ 

Hall, Dr. William, sends ores ^^ 

Hall, James, paheontological i)ublications of -'d 

Hallock, William, delivers a lecture •''• 

Halstead, Miss May, sends fossils •^>*' 

Hamilton, Court, sends specimens of fossil coal *>^' 

Hamilton, W. B., presents fossils -'^ 

Hamlin, John P., sends zoological specimens "'^S !■>■* 

Hardin, Prof. M. B., sends minerals ''l^ 

Hargitt, Edward, sends birds '••">. I"'* 

1 larkness, Prof. William, delivers a lecture -^^ 

Jiarris, Gwynn, sends fishes '. CO, W)^ 

zoological specimens •'C 

Harris, John S., sends ores ^'7 

Havard, Dr. V., notice of paper by (582 

presents plants 22,233 

Haveuor, W.M., sends ores, etc &7 



824 INDEX. 

Page. 

Hawes, Dr. George W., collects building stones 27 

lla wlcy , E. H. , preparator 49 

Hay, Prof. O. P., uotice of paper by 682 

sends fisbcs 53, 1G8 

Hay, Robert, seuds fossil sbells 55 

Hay ti, etbnological objects from 94 

Healy, Capt. M. A., collects marine invertebrates 200 

dredgings collected by 173 

sends fishes, etc G7, 168 

Hebert, M. Jules, prepares mauikius 65 

Heilpriu, Angelo, pabeontological publications 31 

Hemphill, Henry, sends reptiles 165 

Hendley, J. W., modeler 48 

Henry Mountains, model of 244 

Henrj', Pi'ofessor, on accumulation of collections 5 

Hensha w, H. W., coutrihn tes serpents 53 

notice of paper by 682 

Herrick, William, seuds fishes 56 

Hicks, Edward D.. sent lliut objects 107 

Hillebrand, \V. F., sends minerals 53 

Hill, R. T., sends volcanic dust 231) 

Hipkius, Lewis, presents a coach dog 209 

Historical collection, installation of 12 

Hitchcock, Prof. C. H., sends rocks 57,239 

Hitchcock, Romyn 75 

annual report of 113 

list of textile fibers and fabrics by 649 

notice of papers by 682, 683 

on preparation of microscopical mounts of vegetable textile 

fibers 657 

Hoaro, H. P., seuds reptiles 60 

Hobbs, J. R., presents a dolphin 148 

Hodge, E. B., notice of papers by •. 683 

sends brook trout 53, 168 

Hodge, E. P., sends fishes 57 

Hodge, H. G., contributes zoological specimens 54 

Iloffmeister, C. C, sends ores and minerals 60 

Hoke, E. B. contributes zoological specimens 54 

Holland, accessions received from 65 

collection of fishery implements from 11 

ethnological objects from 94 

Holmes, William H., annual report of 97 

curator of American Aboriginal Pottery 14 

Horau, Henry presents slab of stalagmite marble 239 

report of 38 

sends stalagmitic marble 61 

superintendent of buildiugs 83 

Hornaday, William T 79,81 

chief taxidermist 45 

expedition to Montana 15,45 

on preparation of mammal skins 659 

Horn, Dr. George H., receives insects for study 197 

Hostetter, Joseph, seuds minerals 54 

Hotchkiss, Major Jed., sends geological spec! mens 61 

Hough, Myron B. W,, sends minerals 61 



INDEX. 825 

Page. 

Hough, W., receives instruction in photography :5'> 

Houston, S. H., sends minerals rio 

Hutchinson, Jacob R., notice of papers by 683 

Hnnterian Museum at Glasgow, exhibit of steam transportation in 1:50 

Huntington, Randolph, presents lithographs of General Grant's Arabian horses. 210 

Hyatt, Adolphus, paheontological publications of 31 

Idaho, accessions received from 54 

Illinois, accessions received from 54 

archaeological collections from 105 

Imperial Academy of Sciences, tishes received from 169 

reptiles received from 165 

Imperial Zoological Museum, Russia 28 

Implements used in preparation of skins of mammals 660 

India, ethnological collection from 94 

Indiana, accessions received from 54 

archajological collections from 104 

ludiau head carved in sandstone, sent for examination 101 

tribes of Alaska and Canada, ethnological collections from 1)1 

Ingram, H. M., sends geological specimens 59 

Inks, test made for Post-Office Department 49 

Insane Asylum 69 

Insect architecture, exhibit illustratiug 194 

Insects, cabinets and drawers for storage of 183 

cases and frames in use in department of 191 

classiticatiou of exhibition collection of 192 

determined l-*9 

economic collection of 192 

exhibition series of ,. 195 

exhibit of, prepared for Ne w Orleans Exposition 190 

form of bottles used for preservation of 1^5 

injurious to trees, list of 193 

list of important contributions of 187 

papers relating to 31 

preservation of alcoholic material 190 

report on department of 181 

review of work in department of 18 

routine work in department of 186, 190 

statement of identifications of 189 

synoptic collection of 194 

Interior Department, accessions received through 69 

Iowa, accessions received from C>'> 

Ireland, accessions received from 65 

Iroquois Indians, implements used by, received 91 

Irwin, Dr. 15. J. D., sends specimens from Arizona 52 

Irwin, John T., sends botanical specimens 60 

Italy, ethnological objects from 94 

specimens received from (!6 

Ito, Count, exchanges with 29 

Jamaica, drugs from 11, 144 

ethnological objects from 94 

Jamaica Institute, exchanges with 28 

sends fishes 168 

James, H. II 33 

James, R. P., sends geological specimens 59 



826 INDEX. 

P.'ige. 

Japan, drugs from 11 

ethnological objects from 95 

Jaiiauese avifauna, papers on 157 

exhibit at New Orleans Exposition, list of drugs from ]45 

Government, lishery objects from 11 

ornithology, revision of 157 

Jefferey , Francis, sends j ute 54 

Jefferson, President, gifts of foreign Governments to 12 

Jentink, Dr. F. E., exchanges with 28 

Jessup.F. C, makes zoological contributions. — 58 

Joad collection of plants 22 

card catalogue of 233 

"John Bull," locomotive, presented by Pennsylvania Railroad Company 121 

Johnson, A. B., sends si)ecimen 60 

Johnston, J. W., contributes bird-skins 51 

presents Alaskan birds 154 

sends archa'ological implements 108 

collections from Alaska 68 

Johnson, Prof. W. R., examination of American coals by 247 

Johnson, S. E., collects minerals and ethnological objects 51 

Johnston, W. B., sends scale carp ll)8 

specimens received from 54 

Jones, Dr. W. H., sends collections from Panama.... 68 

marine invertebrates 200 

Jones, John R., contributes invertebrates 54 

Jordan, Prof. D. S., notice of papers by 683, 684 

presents birds from the Lower Amazon 154 

sen ds iishes 55, 168 

Jouett, Admiral J. E., sends an agouti 68 

Kane, memorials of his expedition ' 12 

Kan garoo rats, study of 150 

Kansas, accessions received from 55 

Kayser, William, sends crustaceans 58 

Keene, N. H., visit of taxidermists to 44 

Kelvin Grove Museum, Glasgow, models of hulls of steam-boats in i:U 

Kenans, Warren, sends zoological specimens 55 

Kentucky, accessions received from 55 

archiBological specimens from... 106 

Kent, William, estimates loss of fuel in Allegheny County, Pa 248 

Kessler, Rev. Mr., archteological implements sent to Ill 

Kidder, J. H., notice of paper by - 684 

King, Larkin, sends geological material 60 

King of Samoan Islands presents Kava outlit 67 

Kinney, W., presents copper implement 106 

Klinkit Indians, implements used by, received 91 

Koebele, Albert U>6 

assistance rendered by 1*31 

insects received from 189 

Koons, Prof. B. F., co-operation of 20:5 

Kotzebue Sound, ethnological objects from 91 

Krau se, Dr. A. , report of 173 

Kuehliug, J. H., sends serpents S3 

Knnz, George F 33 

notice of paper by 684 

on the gem collection in the National Museum 267 



INDEX. 827 

Pa fro. 

Kiiuz, George P., presents tourmalines 237 

scuds specimens of meteorite in exchange 237 

Kurrachee Museum, exchanges with 28 

Kuskokvim Delta, ethnological objects from 91 

Labels, printing of. 44 

Lager, Louis, sends lishes from an artesian well 168 

Lakes, Rev. A., fossil plants collecled by 231 

Lamb, T. F., sends minerals 5(5, 230 

Lampson, F. A., sends zoological specimens 57 

Lankester, Dr. E. Ray, food specimens prepared by 10 

Lawrence, George N., notice of papers by 0S4 

jtrcsents type specimen of Sporadi mis hraeei 154 

Leach, J. P., contributes zoological specimens 54 

Leadville, model of 24 i! 

Lecture hall, use of 34 

Ledyard, L. W., sends ores and minerals 58 

Lee, Capt. J. ^I., sends ludiau bows and arrows. 54 

Lee, General Stephen D., sends ethnological specimens 51) 

Lee, Mrs. F. L., sends zoological specimens 58 

Lee, Prof. L. A., co-operation of 203 

Lee, Thomas, collects archieological implements 110 

receives instruction in photography 34 

sends stone implement 56 

Leeper, H. T., presents collie " Nesta" 209 

Leiden Museum, exchanges with 28 

Lemon, John H., sends rude and leaf-shaped implements . .'. 105 

Lendereg, George W., sends mineral.s 53 

Leug, C. W., insects lent to 197 

Lepidoptera, collection of 19G 

rearrangement of collection of 196 

Lesquereux, Prof. Leo, receives fossil plants for identilication 231 

Lewis, Dr. J. Guy, sends minerals j». .52 

Lewis, E. S., volunteer assistant 33,241 

Lewis, Thomas, sends lishes GO 

Leyniers, Jan (i5 

Library, operations of 25 

Light-House Board deposits models (w 

Liudsley, Dr. J. Berrien, presents meteorites 237 

sends minerals and ores CO 

Liudstrom, Dr. G., Cambrian fossils received in exchange from 217 

Linton, Prof. Edwin, co-operation of 203 

Lithological exhibit at New Orleans Exhibition 81 

Lithology and physical geologj% papers relating to 31 

report on department of 239 

review of work in department of 22 

Lloyd, W., !> resents birds 154 

London Exhibition, preparation of exhibit for 24 

Looms, specimens of 115 

Louisiana, accessions received I'rom 55 

Louisville Exposition, exhibit of Smith.sonian Institution at 71 

preparation of exhibit for 24 

Low, Henry M., sends lishes 5G 

Lucas, Frederic A 44, 81 

assistant in department of comparative anatomy 20 



828 INDEX. 

Page. 

Lucas, Frederick A., uotice of paper by 684 

osteological preparator 47 

Lyman, Hon. Theodore, ofters to examine collection of Ophiuraus 2015 

studies upon the Opliiurans 20 

Mackay, Jolm W 6r> 

MacLean, J. P., casts of stono tablet sent to 112 

Madagascar, otlinological objects from 95 

land sbells from 17 

Madeira, photographs of costumes from 95 

Maine, accessions received from 55 

Makali Indians, implements used by, received 91 

Mailing, H. M., sends minerals 5G 

Mammal collection, condition of the 151 

exhibit at New Orleans Exhibition 78 

skins for purposes of study and for mounting, preparation of G59 

Mammals, aquatic, accessions of 148 

mounted by taxidermic department 46 

mounted skins in department of , 151 

number of specimens in duplicate and study series of 151 

obtained for Museum 47 

jiapers on 31 

papers published concerning 150 

report of department of ^ 147 

review of work in department of 15 

study series of 149 

terrestrial, accessions of 147 

Manitoba, collection of shells from 17 

mollusks from 173 

Mann, Miss Mary E., sends deposit from springs 58 

Marcou, John Belknap 21 

Bulletin 30 by 30 

• notice of i>apers by 684 

Marcou, Jules, i)al;Eontol.ogical publications of 31 

Marine invertebrates, catalogue entries 207 

distribution of special sets of 207 

important contributions of 199 

institutions supplied with 206 

papers relating to 31 

rearrangement of 201 

report on department of 199 

review of work in department of 20 

Marshall, George, sends zoological specimens 56 

Marsupialia mounted for exhibition 46 

specimens obtained for Museum 47 

Maryland, accessions received from 56 

Mason, Prof. Otis T 75 

annual report of 87 

curator of ethnology 13 

notice of papers by 684, 685 

on committee on publications 31 

sends a necklace 58 

Massach usetts, accessions received from 56 

Materia raedica, classification of collection of 143 

collection 10 

papers on 31 



INDEX. 829 

Page. 

Materia medica, report on section of 14:{ 

specimens, list of important accessions of 144 

Mather, Fred, notice of papers by 685 

Matthews, Dr. Washington, delivers a lecture 34 

Cambrian fossils presented by 218 

fossils received in exchange from 218 

Matthews, G. F., presents fossils 51 

studies Lower Cambrian fauna 32 

McCartee, Dr. B., ethnological collections received from DO 

presents Chinese and Japanese objects 63 

ethnological objects from China 94 

" iukstoue holder " of Chinese jade 237 

McCarthy, Gerald, presents plants from North Carolina 233 

McCliutock, memorials of his expedition 12 

McDonald, Col. Marshall 77 

contributes crustaceans and annelids from Virginia .. 1D3 

sends alcoholic insects 188 

collections of reptiles 165 

natural history collections 69 

zoological collections 60 

McDonald shad-hatching jar 202 

JIcGee, John W., sends minerals and ores 61 

Mcllhenny, Dr. William S., presents minerals 53 

sends specimens of soapstone 239 

Mcll wraith, Thomas, sends zoological specimens 60 

McKay, C. L., reports on Alaskan mammals 15 

McKnight, Dr. C. S., contributes zoological specimens 58 

McNiel, J. A.. Chiriqui pottery purchased from 98 

sends archasological collection 109 

McWhirter, A. J., sends minerals 59 

Meazell, George, L., sends zoological specimens 56 

Meek, Fielding B., writings of 30 

Meek, Seth K., contributes zoological specimens 58 

notice of paper by 685 

Meigs, General M. C, examination of fuels by 247 

Meudenhall, Prof. T. C, delivers a lecture 34 

Merriam, Dr. C. Hart 32 

delivers a lecture 34 

notice of papers by 685 

sends seals 148 

skulls of raturiun nigripes lent to 212 

Merrill, Dr. J. C, sends bird-nest and eggs ' US 

Merrill, George P 81 

contributes serpentine and basalt 240 

curator of lithology and physical geology 23,239 

notice of papers by 685 

on the collection of building and ornamental stones 277 

receives instruction in photography 33 

sends mi nerals 53, 56, 58 

Merrill, L. 11., assistant 241 

Mesozoic fossils, report on department of 229 

review of work in department of 21 

Meske,0.,lepidoptcra i)uruluised from 188 

Metallurgical exhibit at Nev,- Orleans Exhibition . ,., 82 



830 INDEX. 

Page. 

Metallurgy, additions to the collectiou of 245 

and economic geology, report on department of 245 

papers relating to ?>l 

review of work in department of 2'.i 

Meteoric irons, catalogue of - 255 

in Sliepard collectiou 261 

stones, catalogue of 258 

in Sbepard collection , 263 

Meteorite collection, catalogue of the 255 

Meteorites received by exchange 237 

gift 237 

Meteorologists, meeting of 34, 38 

Mexican Geographical Exploring Commisson 27 

birds received from 154, 155 

sends birds 15 

bird-skins 62 

rocks and building stoues.. 240 

Mexico, accessions received from 62 

archaeological collectiou from 109 

drugs from 11 

ethnological collections from 93 

Michigan, archaeological specimen from 107 

Microscopical mounts of vegetable textile libers, paper relating to 657 

Microscopy, papers relating to 31 

Miller, Charles, sends geological specimens and fossils 58 

Miller, I. P., sends fishes 57 

Mills, Maj. Anson, sends reptiles 52 

Milne-Edwards, exchanges with 29 

Mineral exhibit at New Orleans Exhibition 81 

Minerals, list of important exchanges of 237 

papers relating to 31 

rej)ort on department of 237 

review of work in department of 22 

Minnesota, accessions received from 56 

Mintzer, Lieut. W. A., sends Corean coins 68 

Mississippi, accessions received from 56,57 

archaeological material from 14, 103 

Mississippi State commissioners to New Oi'leans Exposition, building stones 

from 240 

Missouri, accessions received from 57 

Mitchell, J. H., sends minerals and ores 61 

Mitchell, S. S., sends sandstone 57 

Modelers, work accomplished by the 48 

Mollusk exhibit at New Orleans Exhibition 80 

Mollusks, condition of collection of 179 

distribution of duplicate 177 

important contributions of 173 

list of entries in register of 178 

of the southeastern coast of United States, determination of 176 

papers on 31 

report on department of 173 

review of work in department of 17 

routine work in department of 174 

Montana, accessions receiA^ed from 57 

exploration for buffalo ,...,,,,, , ,,. .. 45 



INDEX. 831 

Pajro. 

Montgomery, William, sends rainbow trout 163 

Mori;aii, M. E., sends geoloj^ical specimens 55 

Morgan, T. H., sends zoological specimens 55 

Morrison, H. K., collection of insects purchased from 188 

Morrison, Mrs. H. K., sends zoological specimens 58 

Mornsou, Prof. J. II., sends fishes GO 

siiecies of Helix horlensis 173 

Morrison, W. W. , sends qnartz crystals 52 

Mount Taylor, model of 244 

Mount "S^esuvius aiid Monto Siimuia, model of 243 

Mummy obtained at Luxor 50 

Murdoch, John, appointed assistant librarian 7 

notice of papers by > 685 

Murray, James A., exchanges with 28 

Mus6e d'Auuecy, exchanges with 28 

minerals from 22 

Musde d'Histoire Naturelle, birds received from 155 

exchanges with 28 

Museo Preistorico Etuografico, exchanges with 29 

Musical instruments, collection of 12 

Nash, Ur., receives instruction in photography 34 

National Academy of Sciences, meetings of 34, 35 

National Cabinet, maintenance of 3 

National Museum, accessions to the collection 49 

administrative staff of 7 

cases constructed for 42 

development of 4 

establishment of 3 

number of visitors to 32 

overcrowded condition of - 6 

property and supplies for 42 

statf of"^ 

scope of 5 

Naval architecture, exhibit of, at New Orleans Exhibition 86 

Museum in Veuice 133 

Navy Dei)artmeut, accessions received through 68 

co-operation of 200 

Neal, Dr. J. C, sent fossils 54 

Nebraska, accessions received from ,57 

Nehring, Dr. Alfred, list of specimens sent to 151 

sends skeletons of dogs in exchange 210 

Nelson, Drs. George W. and Wolfred, send insects from Panama 187 

Nelson, E. W., collections of pottery from Arizona and New Mexico, made by. 97 

collects pottery 14 

reports on Ala.skan mammals 15 

sends arch;eological objects .52, 108 

Nevada, accessions received from 57 

Nevins, R. D., sends specimens of Amnesia granicoUis 188 

zoological specimens 61 

Newberry, J. S., pahBontological publications of 31 

Newcomen model in Hunteriau Museum at Glasgow 130 

Newhall, W. II., clerk 252 

New Hampshire, accessions received from 57 

New Jersey, accessions rticci ved from 57, 58 

aichu'.ological objects from ,,,....,..,, lOI 



832 INDEX. 

Page. 

New Jersey, irou plates from bull of the 122 

New Jersey Kailioad Company preseuts railsectious 1'21 

Newlou, Dr. W. S., sends luolliisks ^.j 

New Mexico, accessions received from 58 

arcbiEological collection from lOS 

commissioner of, at New Orleans Exposition, sends obsidian 58 

New Orleans Exbibition, preparation of exhibit for 24 

report upon Smithsonian exhibit at 70, 7;5 

Newport Natural History Society seuds mortar from an old tower 51) 

New York, accessions received from 58 

archa-olojjical objects from 101 

New Zealand, ethnological objects from 95 

Nicaragua, block of tufa from lOi) 

Nichols, Lieut. H. E., seuds fishes from Alaska G8 

zoological specimens 01 

NicoUett, F. N., writings of 31 

Nielsen, Mrs. D. L., sends archaeological implements 104 

Nihou, Timothy, sends geological siiecimens 61 

Nissley, J. R., seuds archaeological objects 54, 104 

Noble, F. W., sends geological specimens 56 

Noe, Fletcher M. , sends coal plants 55 

Normau, Rev. A. M., sends microscopical preparations of British sponges 20 

Norris, Dr. Basil, seuds zoological specimens 61 

North Carolina, accessions received from 58 

archiL'ological specimens from 103 

Norton Sound region, ethnological objects froni 91 

Norway, ethnological objects from 94 

specimejis received from 66 

Nnuivak Island regiou, ethuological objects from 91 

Nye, jr., Willard, collects archaM)logical implements 110 

notice of paper by 685 

sends birds 56 

Ober, F. A., sends archaeological objects 110 

Oceanica, accessious received from 66 

Ohio, accessions received from 58,59 

archiBological material from 14, 103, 104 

O'Leary, Dennis, sends specimens of memorial stones 240 

Orcutt, Charles R. , notice of paper by 686 

seuds fossils 52 

Or. gon, accessions received from 59 

stone pestle from 108 

Ornamental stones received by gift 237 

Orton, Prof. Edward, extract from letter of 248 

Osborn, Prof. H., assistance rendered by 191 

Osteological preparator, work accomplished by the ■ 47 

Otago University Museum, exchanges with 29 

Ottawa Indians, doll made by, received 91 

Overman, C, seuds minerals 54 

Owen, D. D., paheoutological publications of 31 

Pacific walrus, skull of, presented by Dr. L. Stejneger 210 

Paleozoic fossils, arrangement of collection of 226 

report on department of 215 

review of work i n department of 21 

Palmer, Dr. Edward, collection of drugs from H 

list of drugs received from 145 



INDEX, 833 

rage. 

Palmer, Dr. Edward, presents silver ores 245 

sends ethuological collections from Mexico 93 

Palmer, Joseph, modeler 48 

Palmer, William, notice of pai)er by 63G 

presents specimens of crossbill lo5 

sends reptiles 60 

Papers by officers of the Museum and other investigators 674 

descriptive of collections in National Museum 253 

Paris Museums, exhibits of steam transportation in 132 

Parker, Dr. T. Jeflrey, exchanges with 29 

sends ores and minerals ^9 

Parker, W. Thornton, sends botanical specimens 60 

Pattangal, Mrs. Fannie, sends samples of basketry — . 55 

Peale, Dr. A. C, contributes volcanic dust and rocks 240 

sends geological specimens 55 

Peck and Snyder send a series of modern games 93 

Pennsylvania, accessions received from 59 

archaeological collections from 102 

Pennsylvania Railroad Company, objects presented by 57 

Perak Government Museum, exchange with 29 

Perry, Commodore, gifts of foreign Governments to 12 

Perry, T. D., specimens from 54 

Persia, ethuological objects from 94 

Peru, spindles from 94 

Petition to Congress in regard to section of steam transportation in National 

Museum 133-140 

Phares, Professor, sends ethnological specimens 56 

Phienix, photograph of the 122 

Photographer, work accomplished by the 48 

Pigorini, Siguor L., exchanges with 29 

Pinnipedia, mounted for exhibition 46 

Plants, papers relating to 31 

Plateaus of Utah, model of 244 

Poey, Prof. F61ipe, sends tishes 62 

West Indian fishes 168 

Pollock, John S., sends a box tortoise 58 

reptiles 165 

Polynesia, ethnological collections from 95 

Porpoise fishery at Hatteras, North Carolina 150 

Porter, General, sends opium outfit 93 

Potter, Emory D., notice of pajier by 686 

Pottery, aboriginal American, report on department of 97 

Pottery and porcelain, collection of 121 

Potts, Edward, notice of paper by 686 

Powell, Major J. W., ethnological collections from 91 

presents turquoise from New Mexico 237 

sends collections from Arizona ' 52 

Powers, H. C, Trenton fossil received from 61,220 

Pratt, N. P. , sends minerals 54 

Preparators, work of the 44 

Preservation of mammal skins for mounting 668 

in a dry state 663 

Preston, J. W., sends zoological specimens 55 

Primates luounted for exhibition 46 

H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 53 



834 INDEX. 

Page. 

Primates, specimens obtained for Museum ^ 47 

Priugle, C. G., presents plants from Mexico 233 

Proboscidea, specimens obtained for Museum 47 

Procter, Prof. J. R., sends geological collections 55 

Progress of general and incidental work 25 

Property and supplies 42 

Prout, H. A., writings of 31 

Publications of the Museum 29, 673 

Quackenbos, John D., notice of papers by 666 

Queensland Museum, exchanges with 29 

Kagsdale, G. H., bird-skins received from 155 

contributes reptiles 165 

information furnished to 151 

Eagonot, M., assistance rendered to the department of insects 

Railway carriages in England, electric lighting of 126 

museums in Europe 129 

travel in Great Britain 125 

Rathbun, Miss M. J., assistant 202 

Rathbun, Richard, honorary curator of marine invertebrates 199 

notice of papers by 686 

prepares temperature observations for publication 202 

Rau, Dr. Charles, annual report of 101 

contributes argillite implements \.. 58 

engaged on archaeological treatise 14 

Ray, Lieut. P. H., ethnological collections from 90 

sends ethnological collections 52, 68,92 

Recent plants, report on department of 233 

selection of specimens for mounting 234 

Reimer, Hon. Otto, sends minerals 67 

Reports of curators 85 

Reptile exhibit at New Orleans Exhibition 80 

Reptiles and batrachiaus, condition of collection 166 

important contribution of 165 

report on department of 165 

review of work in department of 16 

Rerdell, Mrs., receives instructions in taxidermy 33 

Revenue Marine, contributions from 67 

Review of administrative work 24 

work in scientific departments 10 

Rhode Island, accessions received from 59 

Rice, Prof. William North, sends rocks from Bermuda 240 

Richmond, Charles W., presents birds' nests ,53 

Ridgway, J. W., presents pygmy sperm whale 148 

Ridgway, Robert 79 

collects bird-skins 155 

contributes books 25 

curator of birds 153 

notice of papers by 687, 688 

obtained birds from Illinois 54 

sends nest of blue grosbeak 60 

Riggs, R. B., makes analyses of lepidolites 33,238 

Ripley, General, gifts of foreign Governments to 12 

Riley donation of insects 181 

Riley, Dr. Charles V., extent of his collection of insects 19 



INDEX. ^ 835 

Page. 

Riley, Dr. Charles V., honorary curator of insects 18, 181 

notice of papers by 688,689,690,691,692.693 

l)resents collection of insects 18 

Roberts, George W., sends bird-skins. 53, 15.5 

zoological specimens 59 

Robinson, Dr. Samuel Q., sends American egret 68 

Robinson, Prof. Thomas, presents minerals 53 

Robinson, Russell, presiMits albino dusky duck 1.55 

birds (>0 

Rock, Miles, presents arch;eological objects 109 

Rock sections prepared by George P. Merrill 241 

Rocks, distribution of 241 

extent of collection of 241 

Rodentia mounted for exhibition 46 

specimens obtained for Museum 47 

Roesler, F. E., sends building stones 240 

Rogan, James W., sends birds 59 

botanical speci mens 60 

Rogan, John P., specimens from 54 

Rogers, O. P., contributes zoological specimens 54 

Royal Museum of Berlin, exchanges with 23 

Swedish Academy of Sciences contributes books 25 

Ruby, Charles, sends collection from Wyoming 68 

mammals 61 

reptiles ..55, 165 

Rnmsey's steam-boat, portion of chain-gearing of 122 

Rush, Dr. W. H., sends mollusks C7 

Russell, J. C, sends Indian implements 5S 

Russia, harness and clothing from 94 

specimens received from 6Q 

Ryder, Johu A., continues experiments 202 

notice of papers by 693, 694 

Salvin, O., notice of paper by 694 

Samoa, ethnological collections from 95 

Sandwich Islands, ethnological objects from 95 

San Juan Mountains, model of 243 

Saturday lectures M 

Sawyer, C. M., grooved stone maul sent to ^ Ill 

Saxony, specimens received from 66 

Sjtylcs, Ira, sends geological specimens 240 

Schiefflin & Co., W. H., drugs presented by 11 

Schneck, J., contributes zoological specimens 54 

SQhott, A. L., collects plants in District of Columbia 234 

Scientific instruments, collection of 12 

staff of National Museum 6 

Sclater, Philip Lutley, notice of paper by 694 

preparing catalogue of TyrannidcB in British Museum.. 157 

Scollick, J. W. , assistant osteologist 48 

Scotland, specimens received from G6, 94 

Scott, Samuel, sends minerals 53 

Scudder, Newton Pratt, Bulletin 2:5 by 29 

notice of paper by 094 

Seals presented to mammal department 148 

Sea-otter, skeh^ton of, presented by Dr. L. Stejneger 210 



836 ^ INDEX. 

Page. 

Sebring, Hon. W. H., contributes invertebrates 54 

Seebphm, Henry, presents a complete set of volumes of the ''Birds of Europe". 156 

bird-skins from Jaj^an 63 

Sells, Lewis, presents skeleton of eland 147 

Selwyn, Dr. A. R. C, exchange vrith 212 

Sener, S. M., contributes zoological specimens ^ 59 

Seton, Ernest E. T., notice of paper by 694 

Sevres tapestry received 28 

Sharpe, Louis R., sends ores 53 

Sharpie, R. Bowdler, sends bird-skins in exchange 65 

Sharpless, R. P., sends invertebrate fossils 59 

Shepard, A. R., sends stalactites 240 

Shepard collection of meteorites 261 

Shepard, James, contributes silicihed shells 174 

Shepard. Prof. C. U., sends specimens of meteorites in exchange 237 

Shepley, B. A., sends minerals 57 

Sheridan, Lieuteuant-General P. H., deposits tapestries 12,65 

Shiel, James, paheontological publications of 31 

Shindler, A. Zeno 49 

Shoup, Col. J. S., sends ores 54 

Shriver, Howard, sends insects 60 

Shufeldt, Commodore R. W., sends ethnological objects 63,68 

Shufeldt, Dr. R. W 32 

notice of papers by 694 

presents bird-skins 155 

sends collections from New Mexico 68 

insects 187 

reptiles from Fort Wingate 165 

zoological specimens 58 

Shufeldt, Lieut. M. A., presents shells 50 

Shumard, B. F., paheontological publications of 31 

Siamese Government, fishery objects from 11 

Signal Service, contributions from ^ 68 

Silk culture, exhibit relating to 194 

pictures illustrating methods of, received from Mr. Hitchcock 191 

Simmons, Dr. D. B., delivers a lecture , 34 

Simms, John G., leaf-shaped implements obtained from 105 

Simon, Henry, presents samples of foke from England 245 

Simpson, Charles T., contributes shells. 54 

sends mollusks 173 

Skinning large mammals, method of 662 

small quadrupeds, method of 660 

Smillie, T. W., photographer ,48 

Smith, C. C, information furnished to 151 

Smith, Frank, sends geological specimens 61 

Smith, Hugh M., notice of papers by 694 

presents bird-skins 155 

sends histoiical relics 61 

zoological specimens 56 

Smith, John B., assistant curator of insects 18, 181 

exotic lepidoptera received from' 187 

lepidoptera received from 188 

notice of papers by 694, 695, 696 

Smith, Kentucky Q., sends archajological objects 55 

ceremonial objects 59 



INDEX. 837 

Page. 

Smith, Milton, sends a mammal 53 

Smith, Miss Kosa, presents reptiles 165 

sends lizards S- 

Smith, Prof. Sidney 1 ., notice of paper by 096 

retnrns Crustacea lent for study 200 

studies collection of Crustacea 203 

Smithsonian building, number of visitors to 32 

Smithsonian Institution, act to establish 3 

contributes books 25 

Snyder, George W., sends paper money 59 

Societies, meetings ot 34 

Society of American Taxidermists' exhibit at New Orleans Exhibition 80 

Sorex lioyi, concerning dentition aiul cranial characters of 151 

South America, ethnological collections from 94 

specimens received from --. - 62 

South Carolina, accessions received from 59 

South Carolina commissioners to New Orleans Exposition, bulling stones re- 
ceived from 240 

South Kensington Museum, steam transportation exhibit in 129 

Spain, collection of fishery implements from 11 

Spainhour, Dr. J. M., presents specimens of brown hematite 103 

sends Indian implements 58 

Spangler, George, sends archieological specimens 54 

Spangler, T. F., presents arrow and spear heads 104 

sends dint implements 59 

Spatcier, Professor, sends silver and iron ores 58 

Spinning appliances, disjjlay of 115 

Spitzka, Dr. E. C, correspondence with 151 

Stalker, B. F., sends arch;eological specimens 54 

Stansbury expedition, fossils collected by 221 

Star-fishes collected by U. S. Fish Commission, revision of 203 

State, Department of, accessions received through 67 

Persian turquoises received through 238 

sends building stones from Nova Scotia and New Bruns- 
wick 240 

Steam-boats substituted for gondolas in Venice 128 

Steam transportation, organization of section of. 119 

report on section of 119 

Stearns, Dr. K. E, C 80 

adjunct curator of molln-sks 18 

notice of papers by 696 

sends fossils 58 

Stearns, Frederick & Co., drugs presented by 11, 145 

present birds from Bogota 155 

sends materia medica specimens 56 

Stearns, .J. B., presents Chiriqui pottery 98 

Stearns, Silas, notice of ])aper by 696 

.sends specimens o{ Epinephelus flavoUmbatus 169 

Steedmau, J. G. W., sends zoological specimens 57 

istejneger, Dr. Leonhard 80 

Bulletin 29 by 30 

collects marine invertebrates 200 

contributes rocks from Copper and Bering's Islands .. . 240 

notice of papers by 696, 697 



838 INDEX. 



Stejneger, Dr. Leoubard, obtains skull of bottle-nosed whale 1 48 

on committee on publications . 31 

presents bird-skins from Norway and Kamtscliatka..l55, 156 

skull of Steller's sea-lion, etc 210 

Steller, explorations of 30 

Steller's sea-lion, received 148 

skull of, presented by Dr. L. Stejneger 210 

Stephens, W. H., sends geological material 60 

Sterling, Dr. E., notice of paper by 697 

Stevens, Col. John, drawing of machinery of steam-boat invented by 122 

inventor of propeller steam-boat ?. 122 

Stevens, Francis B., co-operation of 122 

courtesy of 122 

Stevenson, Col, James, collects ethnological objects in Arizona 52 

pottery 14 

pieces of pottery from Tusayan secured by 97 

sends Zuui objects 92 

Stewart, Harry, contributes ancient objects from Nicaragua 61 

Stimpson, Dr. W. G 150 

Stone, Dwight D., contributes zoological specimens 58 

Stone, Livingston, notice of paper by 697 

Stony irons, catalogue of 258 

Streets, Dr. T. Hale, collections received from 52 

collects marine invertebrates 200 

contributes natural history specimens 68 

sends fishes from Alaska 16^ 

reptiles 165 

Studer, Hon. A. G., sends ethnological objects 63- 

Students, facilities to , 32 

Study series in the Museum 24 

Superintendent of buildings, report of 38 

Supplies, routiuo of administration upon 4S 

Surgeon-General of the Army sends crania and skeletons 68 

Survey, U. S. Geological, seuds turquoise 58 

Sutton, Hon. Warner P., sends specimens 62 

Swan, James G., notice of paper by 69T 

sends marine invertebrates 200 

specimens from Cape Flattery 61 

Swash, J. C, sends ores and minerals 59 

Swiss Centennial Commission sends rocks from St. Gothard Tunnel 240 

Sweden, collection of fishery implements from 11 

specimens received from 66 

Switzerland, geological model of 243 

Sydney, minerals from University of 22 

Symons, Capt. Thomas W., presents rock-drill 53 

Syria, ethnological objects from 94 

Tamen, H. A. , sends minerals 53 

Tanner, Capt. Z. L 78 

Tapestries deposited by General P. H. Sheridan 12 

Taxidermists, work of the 44 

Taxidermy, papers relating to 31 

Taylor, F, W., contributes ores 245 

presents minerals 237 

sends sulphide of silver 58 



INDEX. 839 

Page. 

Temperature observations 202 

Tennessee, accessions received from 59,60 

archiBological collections from 14, 106 

Terrestrial irons in Sliepard collection .*•. 262 

Texas, accessions received from 60 

Textile art, paper on form in 99 

collection 10 

exhibit at New Orleans Exhibition 75 

fibers and fabrics, list of specimens of 649 

Textiles, report on section of 1 113 

reserve series of 116 

Thomas, Dr. Cyrus, makes mound collections 97 

Thompson, Hon. Edward, sends a bird-skin 67 

Thompson, W. S., drugs presented by 11 

list of drugs received- from 145 

Tokyo, Department of Education in exchanges with 29 

sends Japanese pottery 64 

Tolbert, J. H. , sends zoological speci mens 56 

Towne, F. H 114 

Townsend, Charles H., collections received from 51 

collects birds 156 

bones of whales and dolphins 53 

specimen of Steller's sea liou 148 

sends bird skeletons 210 

. collections from California and Alaska 70 

fishes from Alaska 169 

reptiles 165 

skull of dolphin 148 

Transportation, historical collection 12 

Transportation of animals in the flesh 670 

Treasury Department, accessions received through 67 

Trigg, J. S., contributes specimens of Madrepore marble 240 

Trocad^ro Museum, exchanges with 28 

True, Frederick W 78 

collects foital skulls of Tursiops tursio 210 

contributes rocks from Virginia 240 

curator of comparative anatomy 209 

curator of mammals 15, 147 

on committee on publications 3l 

notice of papers by 697, 698 

sends minerals , 61 

visits coast of North Carolina 15 

TuUberg, Prof. Tycho, exchanges with 29 

Turkey, charms and clothing from 94 

Turner, H. L., receives instruction in photography 34 

Turner, Lucien M., contributes rocks from Labrador 240 

notice of papers by 698 

sends reptiles 60 

zoological specimens 56 

Trrpin, T. J., sends minerals , 54 

Tweedy, Frank, presents recent plants 233 

Type specimens, circular concerning the loan of 25 

Uintah and Wasatch Mountains, model of 244 

Underwood, Prof. L. M., myriapods sent for study to 197 



840 INDEX. 

Page. 

Underwood, Prof. L. M., specimens obtained for Museum 47 

United States, ethnological collections from 91 

of Colombia arch;eological collection from 109 

review of accessions from 51 

U. S. Fish Commission, collections of marine invertebrates made by 199 

collections received, from G9 

mollnsks received from 173 

presents skeletons of fishes 210 

sends fishes from Cape Hatteras 1G9 

reptiles from the Bahamas 165 

summer explorations of 200 

transfers collections of birds, birds' nests, and eggs from 

the Bahamas 156, 163 

U. S. Geological Survey, carboniferous fossils from Nevada obtained through .. 2J4 
carboniferous fossils from eastern Tennessee obtained 

through 223 

collection of Middle Cambrian formatious received 

from 215 

collection smadeby 69 

from 54 

contributes books 25 

Devonian and Silurian fossils from Indiana and Ken- 
tucky obtained through 225 

Devonian fossils from Nevada obtained through 224 

Mesozoic fossils received from 229 

sends fossil plants 60 

fossils 57 

fossil wood ^ 59 

historical objects 59 

ores and minerals 59 

relief maps 240 

silver ores 57 

Utah, accessions received from 60 

Van Buren, General Thomas B., presents minerals from Japan 63 

Van Cleef, Dr. A., contributes zoological specimens 59 

sends samples of coal formation 59 

Venezuela, bead-belts from 94 

Verrill, Prof. A. E 33 

in charge of laboratory at Wood's Holl 206 

notice of paper by 698 

studies marine invertebrates collected by the Fish Com- 
mission - -- 203 

studies moUusks 173 

Virginia, accessions from 60,61 

archfeological collections from 102 

Vis, Dr. C. W. de, exchanges with 29 

Visitors to the National Museum, number of 32 

Von Kittlitz, explorations of 30 

Vossnessenski, explorations of 30 

Vulcan, model of steamer 131 

Wadsworth, Dr. M. E., sends volcanic dust from Dakota 240 

Wahl, William H., secretary of Franklin Institute of State of Pennsylvania.. 140 

Waiuwright, Col. John, courtesy of 210 

Walcott, A. D., presents specimens of iridosmine 245 



INDEX. 841 

Page. 

Walcott, C. D., carboniferous fossils from eastern Tennessee collected by 2U'6 

Nevada collected bj' 224 

collects Trenton fossils 57 

Devonian fossils collected by » _ 224,225 

honorary curator of paleozoic fossils 21,215 

notice of paper by (399 

on Cambrian fossils 21 

sends fossils 60 

writings of . 30 

Walker, Charles, reptiles collected by l(j^ 

Walker, James T., contributes zoological specimens 58 

presents an Irish setter 210 

Walker, John, reptiles collected by 1G5 

Walker, S. F., presents miuerals 54 

Walsinghain, Lord, assistance rendered by, to the department of insects 191 

Ward and Howell send slab of limestone 240 

War Department, collections received through 67 

Ward, Prof. Lester F., delivers a lecture 34 

honorary curator of botany 21 

honorary curator of fossil plants 231 

honorary curator of recent plants 233 

on committee on publications 31 

Waring, C. H., sends ores and minerals 58,59 

Warren, Dr. B. H., presents birds from Florida 156 

bird skeletons 210 

sends insects 53 

reptiles from Florida 165 

Washburn, F.L., notice of paper by 699 

Washington Territory, accessions received from 61 

Washoe district, model of 243 

Watkins, George W., sends ores and minerals 58 

Watkins, J. Elfreth, annual report of II9 

visits Europe in the interest of sectiou of steam transpor- 
tation 124 

Watson, James, presents collie " Clipsetta" 209 

sends fossil wood 53 

Wayne, Arthur T., sends birds with nest and eggs 59 

Weaving appliances II5 

Webber, Samuel, notice of papers by 699 

Webb, John S., sends insects 60 

Webb, Mr., superintendent of the London and Northwestern Railway at Crewe. 125 

Webster, C. L., Devonian fossils received from 219 

Webster, Paymaster E. B., assists in department of ethnology 89 

Weidenbach, Henry, sends archaeological objects .54 

Welch, Ashbel l-^i 

Welch, Dr. L. B., sends ethnological specimens 59 

West Indies, accessions received from 62 

archicological specimens from HO 

West Prussian Provincial Museum, presents minerals 237 

West Virginia, accessions from 61 

archajological collections from 14^ 102 

Wetherby, Prof. A. G., sends mollusks I73 

Wharton, Joseph, presents skeletons of fishes 210 

sends lislies 59 



Wheeler, Roswell, sends birds' eggs ... 
H. Mis. 170, pt. 2 — -54 



52 



842 INDEX 

Whitcorab.H. C. & Co 76 

Wbitcomb, O., seuds geological specimens 55 

While, Dr. Charles A., honorary curator of mesozoic fossils 21,229 

writiugs of 30 

Whitfield, R. P., paljpoutological iiublications of 31 

Wiggius, John B , seuds archipological specimeus 102 

Wilcox, Joseph W., seuds geological material A 59 

Wilcox, Joseph, seuds stone implements . 54 

W^ilcox, W. A., sends fishes 56 

Wilkinson, E., presents reptiles from Mexico 165 

sends cyprinodonts from Mexico 169 

reptiles 62 

Williams, Capt. John J., seuds geological material 59 

Williams, Dr. George H., seuds rocks 240 

Williams, Henry S., notice of paper by 699 

Williston, Dr. S. W., prepares Bulletin 31 31 

assistance rendered by 191 

Wilmiugton Oil and Leather Company '. 150 

courtesy of 210 

sends porpoise skulls 58 

Wilmot, Samuel, seuds skull offish 169 

Wilsou, Col. P. M., seuds ores 58 

Wilson, Thomas, seuds prehistoric stone implement 65 

Wiltse, Jerome, seuds Indian implement 57 

Winchell, Prof. N. H., presents minerals 237 

seuds a mineral 56 

rocks 56 

specimens of catlinite 240 

Winterhalter, Lieutenant, receives instruction in photography 34 

Wisconsi u, accessions received from 61 

archaeological material from 14, 107 

Woleott, Allen D., sends ores 59 

Woodard, S. S., notice of paper by 699 

Woodcock, Hon. Albert, seuds specimeus from Sicily 67 

Wood, N. W., sends geological specimeus 55 

Woodruif, Lewis B., sends bird-skins and eggs 53 

Wood's Holl, laboratory work at 206 

scientific staff of Fish Commission at 206 

■ Woolfe, Henry D., collections received from 51 

Wooster, A, F., sends archajological objects 59 

zoological specimens 53 

Wray, L., jr., exchange with - 29 

Wright, D. W. M., seuds minerals and oies 61 

Wyoming, accessions received from 61 

Wytheville hatchery, sends fishe-s 60 

Yarrow, Dr. H. C, coutributes reptiles 165 

honorary curator of reptiles and batrachians 16,165 

sends ethnological specimens 60 

zoological specimens 58 

Yeates, William S 81 

Yeatmau, W., sends fishes - 60 

Yellowstone National Park, model of 243 

Yosemite Valley, model of 243 

Zoological Society of Philadelphia, gifts from 15, 165 

O 



''i 676 



