






JiiiiiiMll 




i 



% 



^^ 






"^^ 



.^ 



n . 



'^' '$- 






<«^_^ 



vr V*- 



^v\.' 



Vlx"v^ 



) HOUSE OF EEPRESENTATIVES. ( Ex. Doc 

f \ No. 20. 



4iD Congress, \ HOUSE OF EEPRESENTATIVES. / Ex. Doc. 

lid Sessio7i. 



ANNUAL KEPORT 



THE BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



THE OPERATIOiNS, EXPEiN'DITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE LNSTITUTION 

FOR THE YEAR 1870. 



WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 
1871. 



Congress of the United States, in tiie House of Representatives, 

Forty-second Congress, First Session, April 19, 1871. 
The following resolutiou, originating iu tlie House of Eepreseutatives this day, has 
been concurred in by the Senate, viz : 

" Besolrcd, (the Senate concinring,) That twelve thousand five hundred additional 
copies of the report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1870 be printed, 
twenty-five hundred of which shall be for the use of the Senate, five thousand for the 
use of the House, and five thousand for the use of the Institution : Provided, That the 
aggregate number of pages of said report shall not exceed four hundred and fifty, and 
that there shall be no illustrations except those furnished by the Institution." 
Attest: EWD. McPHEESON, 

Clerk. 



LETTER 



FROM THE 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

TRANSMITTING 

The annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1870. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington^ March 1, 1871. 
Sir : In bebalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit 
to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the operations, 
expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 
1870. 
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. S. Colfax, 

President of the Senate. 
Hon. J. G. Blaine, 

Spealcer of the House of Representatives. 



ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 1870. 



This document contains : 1. The programme of organization of the 
Smithsonian Institution. 2. The annual report of the Secretary, giving 
an account of the operations and condition of the establishment for the 
year 1870, with the statistics of collections, exchanges, meteorology, &c. 

3. The report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial aifairs 
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the re- 
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1870, and the estimates for 1871. 

4. The proceedings of the Board of Regents. 5. A general appendix, 
consisting principally of reports of lectures, translations from foreign 
journals of articles not generally accessible, but of interest to meteorol- 
ogists, correspondents of the Institution, teachers, and others interested 
in the promotion of knowledge. 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



ULYSSES S. GRANT President of the United States, ex-offido Presiding Officer ot 

the Institntiou. 

SALMON P. CHASE Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Insti- 
tution, President of the Board of Regents. 

JOSEPH HENRY Secretary (or Director) of the Institution. 



EEGENTS OP THE INSTITUTION. 



S. p. CHASE Chief Justice of the United States, President of ihe Board. 

S. COLFAX Vice-President of the United States. 

HENRY D. COOKE Governor of the District of Columbia. 

L. TRUMBULL Member of the Senate of the United States. 

GARRETT DAVIS Member of the Senate of the United States. 

H. HAMLIN Member of the Senate of the United States. 

J. A. GARFIELD Member of the House of Representatives. 

L. P. POLAND Member of the House of Representatives. 

S. S. COX Member of the House of Representatives. 

W. B. ASTOR Citizen of New York. 

T. D. WOOLSEY Citizen of Connecticut. 

L. AGASSIZ Citizen of Massachusetts. 

PETER PARKER Citizen of Washington.^ 

JOHN MACLEAN Citizen of New Jersey. > Executive Committee. 

WILLIAM T. SHERMAN.. Citizen of Washington.] 



MEMBERS EX OFMCIO OF THE INSTITUTION. 



U. S. GRANT President of the United States. 

S. COLFAX Vice-President of the United States. 

S. P. CHASE Chief Justice of the United States. 

H. FISH Secretary of State. 

G. S. BOUTWELL Secretary of the Treasury. 

W. W. BELKNAP Secretary of War. 

G. M. ROBESON Secretary of the Navy. 

J. A. J. CRESWELL Postmaster General. 

C. DELANO Secretary of the Interior. 

A. T. AKERMAN Attorney General. 

M. D. LEGGETT Commissioner of Patents. 

H. D. COOKE Governor of the District of Columbia. 



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



JOSEPH HENEY, Secretary, 
Director of the Institution. 



SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary, 
In charge of Museum, Exchanges, &c. 



WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk, 
In charge of Accounts, Printing, and General Business. 



DANIEL LEECH, Clerk, 
In charge of Correspondence. 



CLARENCE B. YOUNG, Clerk, 
And Book-keeper. 



HENRY M. BANNISTER, Clerk, 
In charge of Meteorological Records. 



JANE A. TURNER, Clerk, 
In charge of Records of International Exchange 



SOLOMON G. BROWN, Clerk, 
In charge of Transportation. 



JOSEPH HERRON, 
Janitor of the Museum. 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION 

OF THE 

SMITHSOI^IAN INSTITUTIOX. 



[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND 
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1847.] 



IlJifTEODUCTION 



General considerations wJiich should serve as a guide in adopting a Plan 

of Organization. 

1. Will of Smithson. The property is bequeathed to the Uuited 
States of America, " to found at Washington, under the name of the 
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffu- 
sion of knowledge among men." 

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The Government of 
the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the 
testator. 

3. The institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently 
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and 
perpetuate his name. 

4. The objects of the Institution are, 1st, to increase, and 2(1, to dif- 
fuse knowledge among men. 

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another. 
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition 
of new truths; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus increased, 
among men. 

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of 
knowledge ; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention. 

7. Knowledge can be increased by diiferent methods of facilitating 
and promoting the discovery of new truths ; and can be most exten- 
sively diffused among men by means of the press. 

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be 
such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of in- 
creasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either at 
all or so efficiently by the existing institutions in our country. 

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provis- 
ionally ; can be easily reduced to practice ; receive modifications, or be 
abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds. 

10. In order to compensate in some measure for the loss of time occa- 
sioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution, a 
considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be added 
to the principal. 



8 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

11. In proportion to tlie wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, the 
funds are small. Economy should, therefore, be consulted in the con- 
struction of the building ; and not only the first cost of the edifice should 
be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in repair, 
and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected with it.. 
There shouhl also be but few individuals permanently supported by the 
Institution. 

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined 
by the plan of the organization, and not the converse. 

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene- 
fited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure 
on local objects would be a perversion of the trust. 

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from 
th'fe will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the 
act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a library, a 
museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to con- 
tain them, 

SECTION I. 

Flan of organization of the Institution in accordance icith the foregoing 
deductions from the will of Smithson. 

To INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed — 

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering 
suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths ; and, 

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for j^articular re- 
searches, under the direction of suitable persons. 

To DIFFUSE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed — 

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the 
different branches of knowledge ; and, 

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general 
interest. 

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. 

I. By stimulating researches. 

1. Facilities afforded for the i^roduction of original memoirs on all 
branches of knowledge. 

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes, 
in a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 

3. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for pub- 
lication which does not furnish a positive addition to human knowledge, 
resting on original research ; and all unverified speculations to be re- 
jected. 

4. Each memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for ex- 
amination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the 



PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. y 

branch to which the memoir pertains ; and to be accepted for publica- 
tion only in case the report of this commission is favorable. 

5. The commission to be chosen by the ofiBcers of the Institution, and 
the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a favor- 
able decision is made. 

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions 
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the col- 
leges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remain- 
ing copies may be offered for sale, and the other carefully preserved, to 
form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand from new insti- 
tutions. 

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs 
to be given to the public through the annual report of the Kegents to 
Congress. 

II. By appropriating a part of the income, annually, to special objects of 
research, under the direction of suitable persons. 

1. The objects and the amount appropriated, to be recommended by 
counsellors of the Institution. 

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects ; so that in 
course of time each branch of knowledge may receive a share. 

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published, 
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian 
Contributions to Knowledge. 

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made. 

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the 
problem of 'American storms. 

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, mag- 
netical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the formation 
of a physical atlas of the United States. 

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination 
of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of light ; 
chemical analyses of soils and plants; collection and publication of 
scientific facts accumulated in the offices of government. 

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical, 
moral, and political subjects. 

(5.) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated in 
American history. 

(G.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the differ- 
ent races of men in North America; also, explorations and accurate 
surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our 
country. 



10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION'. 

DETAILS OP THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE. 

I. By the puhUcation of a series of reports, giving an account of the new 
discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in all 
hranchcs of knowledge not strictly professional. 

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interest- 
ing-, bnt which, at present, is inaccessible to the pnblic. Some of the 
reports may be pnblished annually, others at longer internals, as the 
income of the Institution or the changes, in the branches of knowledge 
may indicate. 

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the dif- 
ferent branches of knowledge. 

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publica- 
tions, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report; 
to be paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title- 
page of the report. 

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons inter- 
ested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it without 
purchasing the whole. 

5. These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribu- 
tion, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific institu- 
tions, and sold to individuals for a moderate price. 

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in the 
reports :* 

I. PHYSICAL CLASS. 

1. rh.vsics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, and 
meteorology. 

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology geology, &c. 

3. Agriculture. 

4. Application of science to arts. 

II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS. 

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology, 
antiquities, &c. 

G. Statistics and political economy. 

7. Mental and moral philosophy. 

8. A survey of the political events of the world ; penal reform, &c. 

III. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS. 

9. Modern literature. 

10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts. 

11. Bibliography. 

12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals. 



'This part of the plan has been but partially carried out. 



PEOGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 11 

II. By the publication of separate treatises on siihjects of general interest. 

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs 
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the 
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the 
best exposition of a given subject. 

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission of 
competent judges, previous to their publication. 

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the 
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the 
table of reports. 

SECTION II. 

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of the 
Board of Regents providing for the two modes of increasing and diffusing 
liiowledge, 

1. The actof Congress establishing the Institution contemplated the 
formation of a library and a museum ; and the Board of Regents, 
including these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide 
the income* into two equal parts. 

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by 
means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before 
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library 
and a collection of objects of nature and of art. 

3. These two plans are not incomj^atible with one another. 

4. To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required, 
consisting, 1st, of a comiilete collection of the transactions and proceed- 
ings of all the learned societies in the world ; 2d, of the more important 
current periodical publications, and other works necessary in preparing 
the periodical reports. 

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of ob- 
jects to illustrate and verify its own publications. 

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of ex- 
perimental science. 

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men- 
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United 
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur- 
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States. 

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials, 
should be collected for rendering the Institution a center of bibliograph- 
ical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work which 
he may require. 

* The amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the Treasury of 

the United States is $515, 169 00 

Interest on the same to July 1, 1846, (devoted to the erection of the building) 24'2, 129 00 
Annual income from the bequest 30, 910 14 



12 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase 
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro- 
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary to 
purchase articles of this kind. 

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of art casts 
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture. 

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of expense, 
for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other similar 
societies. 

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of an- 
tiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c. 

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides 
the Secretary no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to 
act as librarian. 

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to the 
Kegents. He shall take charge of the building and property, keep a 
record of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and keeper of 
the museum, and may, with the consent of the Eegeuts, employ assist- 
ants. 

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress, 
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit 
new objects of art. Distinguished individuals should also be invited to 
give lectures on subjects of general interest. 



This programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has become 
the settled jtolicy of the Institution. The only material change is that 
expressed by the following resolutions, adopted January 15, 1855, viz : 

Besolved-i That the 7th resolution passed by the Board of Eegents, on 
the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the income 
between the active operations and the museum and library, when the 
buildings are completed, be, and it is hereby, repealed. 

Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor- 
tioned specifically among the difit'erent objects and operations of tlie 
Institution, in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Eegents, be 
necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic importance and 
a compliance in good faith with the law. 



REPORT 

or 

PROFESSOR JOSEPH HENRY 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



To the Board of Regents : 

Gentlemen : The year 1870 may be considered almost an epoch in 
the history of the Smithsonian Institution, since in this year Congress 
commenced to recognize the propriety of making something lilie an ade- 
quate appropriation to relieve the Smithson fund from at least a portion 
of the burden to which it has from the first been subjected in the main- 
tenance and care of the National Museum. During the last session of 
Congress an appropriation of $10,000 was granted for the preservation 
and exhibition of the national collection, and also $10,000 toward the 
Ijreparation of the second story of the building for the better care and 
display of the specimens, and an equal sum for each of these objects has 
been asked at the i)resent session for the year 1871, and we are assured 
by influential members of Congress that the request will be granted. It 
cannot be otherwise than gratifying to the friends of science that Gov- 
ernment has at length awakened to the importance of making provision 
for the independent support of a National Museum, which we trust will 
be worthy of the capital of the United States. The connection which 
has heretofore existed between the National Museum and the Smithson- 
ian Institution has been alike prejudicial to both, although more than 
one-half of the income of the Smithsou fund has been expended in main- 
tenance of the museum ; and notwithstanding that the Institution, in 
the prosecution of its legitimate objects, has collected many thousands 
of specimens illustrating the productions of the North American conti- 
nent, the public museum has not yet, owing to the inadequacy of means, 
been such as might be expected from the reputation of the Insti- 
tution or the character of our Government. 

The National Museum was established previous to the acceptance by 
the Government of the care of the Smithson bequest, and consisted at 
first of the specimens of natural history and ethnology collected by the 
United States exploring expedition under Admiral Wilkes. Unfortu- 
nately, from a misconcejition of the terms of the will of Smithsou, as now 
generally recognized, Congress directed the aj)propriation of the income 
of the fund principally to a museum, a library, a gallery of art, and 
other local objects, which, though important in themselves, did not 
comport with the liberal spirit of the bequest, nor with the income of 



14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the endowment, which was scarcely more than sufficient to properly 
support any one of these objects. Had it not been for this misconcep- 
tion, it is not improbable that before this time Congress would have 
made a more liberal provision for the support of the National Museum, 
and the scientific operations of the Institution which have made it favor- 
ably known throughout the world would have been much more extended. 
From the first the organic law of Congress has, therefore, stood in the 
way of the full development of the plan of active operations of the Insti- 
tution; and it has only been by the gradual enlightenment of the public 
mind as to the true character of the will of Smithson and the importance 
of the plan of active operations, that, step by step, and after upward of 
twenty years of continued effort, the latter has now a fair prospect of 
producing all the results which have been claimed for it. 

As stated in previous reports, the library of the Institution has been 
incorporated, under certain conditions, with that of Congress. The land 
around the building presented to the Institution by the Government, 
and upon w^hich at first about $10,000 of the income of the fund was 
expended, has been incorporated with the public reservation set aside 
for a park, and the cost of its keeping defrayed from the general appro- 
priation for the maintenance of the public grounds. The establishment 
of a gallery of art b}- the liberal endowment of Mr. Corcoran obviates 
the necessity of anything further being done in this direction by the 
Institution. 

Still the emancipation of the fund from local objects is not as thorough 
as could be wished. It would be better, in mj- opinion, that the public 
museum should bo entirely separated from the Institution. The 
appropriations of Congress are frequently fitful, and the distinction 
between appropriations for the museum and for the Institution is not 
as manifest as is desirable. It is the wiser policy of the Institution to 
ask no appropriations from Congress for its own legitimate objects, in 
order that it may be kept entirely free from political influence. We 
must, however, be content, in the attainment of an object depending 
upon legislative enactment, with securing a part of what we wish, if we 
cannot obtain the whole. 

Finances. — The following is a general statement of the condition of 

the Smithson fund at the end of the year 1870, or rather at the begiii,- 

uing of the year 1871 : 

The amount originally received as the bequest of James 
Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the 
United States, in accordance with the act of Congress of 
August 10, 1846 $515, 169 00 

The residuary legacy of Smithson received in 1865, also 
deposited in the Treasury of the United States, in accord- 
ance with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867 26, 210 63 

Making the bequest of Smithson 541, 379 63 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ]5 

Additions from savings, &c., also in the United States 

Treasury, as a part of the original fund $108, 620 37 

In Virginia State stock, $72,760, valued at 48, 000 00 

Cash on hand 21, 477 81 

719, 477 81 



The income from the fund during the year 1870, iuclnding the pre- 
mium on gold, Avas $43,303 12. This amount is $6,152 08 less than 
that for 1800, due to the difference in the premium on coin. 

No interest has been received from the State of Virginia for 1869 and 
1870. Up to 1870 the usual appropriation from Government for the 
care of the National Museum was $4,000, but for the fiscal year com- 
mencing July 1, 1870, this amount was increased, as we have before 
stated to $10,000. Of this sum $5,024 have been placed to the credit 
of the museum ; the whole expense, however, of keeping the museum, 
irresi)ective of the interest on the building, amounted to at least $15,000. 

The remainder of the income (excepting $508 16) was expended in 
publications, exchanges, researches, salaries, &c., and nearly $5,000 for 
repairs on the building. 

Congress also granted, as previously stated, an appropriation of 
$10,000 toward fitting up the large hall for the better preservation and 
display of the collections ; but of this nothing has been drawn during 
the year, the plans and other preparations for the improvement of the 
building not having been completed. From the foregoing statement it 
will be evident that the Smithson funds are in a prosperous condition, 
and that should Congress continue annually to make an adequate sup- 
port for the museum, they would be sufftcient on the part of the insti- 
tution to extend its usefulness far beyond what it has yet accom- 
plished. 

As a part of the history of the Institution, and injustice to the gen- 
erosity of one of its earliest friends, I may mention under the head of 
finance, that for many years during the controversy which existed 
between the regents and the contractors in regard to the building, 
James M. Carlisle, esq., of this city, acted as counsel for the Institu- 
tion, and has subsequently given advice on points of law which have 
arisen in conducting the various operations of the establishment. 
These services, the usual charges for which would amount to compara- 
tively a large sum, have been gratuitously rendered to the Institution; 
for which liberality I would recommend a special resolution of thanks 
by the Board. 

Puhli cat ions. — The publications of the Institution are of three classes — 
the Contributions to Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collections, and the 
Annual Eeports. The first consist of memoirs containing positive 
additions to science resting on original research, and which are gener- 



16 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ally the result of iuvestigations to which the Institution has in some 
way rendered assistance. The Miscellaneous Collections are chiefly 
composed of works intended to facilitate the study of certain branches of 
natural history or of meteorology, and are designed especially to induce 
individuals to engage in studies as specialties, to which in leisure 
moments their thoughts may recur, and by observations and collections 
in relation to which they may not only contribute to their own pleasure 
but, also, advance the cause of science. The Annual Eeports are pub- 
lished at the expense of the Government, with the exception of the 
illustrations, which are furnished by the Institution. 

During the past year the sixteenth volume of the Smithsonian Con- 
tributions to Knowledge has been published and distributed. It 
contains 494 pages, and is illustrated with 73 wood-cuts and 19 
plates. The several articles contained in this volume, which were also 
published and distributed separately, are as follows : 

The Gray Substfince of the Medulla Oblongata and Trapezium, by 
John Dean, M. D. 4to, pp. 80. Sixteen plates, five wood-cuts. 

Eesults of Meteorological Observations made at Brunswick, Maine, 
between 1801 and 1859, by Parker Cleaveland, LL.D. Eeduced and 
discussed at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution, bj^ Charles A. 
Schott. 4to, pp. CO. Eight wood-cuts. 

Eesults of Meteorological Observations made at Marietta, Ohio, be- 
tween 1826 and 1859, inclusive, by S. P. Hildreth, M. D. ; to which are 
added Eesults of Observations taken at Marietta, by Mr. Joseph Wood, 
between 1817 and 1823. Eeduced and discussed by the Smithsonian 
Institution, by Charles A. Schott. 4to, pp. 52. Fourteen wood-cuts. 

On the Gliddon Mummy Case in the Museum of the Smithsonian 
Institution, by Charles Pickering. 4to, p. 6. One plate. 

The Orbit and Phenomena of a Meteoric Fire-Bail, seen July 20^ 
1800, by Professor James H. Cofiin, LL. D. 4to, p. 56. Two plates, 
two wood-cuts. 

On the Transatlantic Longitude, by Benjamin Apthorp Gould. 4to, 
pp. 110. 

The Indians of Cape Flattery, at the entrance to the Strait of Fuca, 
Washington Territory, by James G. Swan. 4to, i^p. 118. Forty-four 
wood-cuts. 

The Seventeenth volume of Smithsonian Contributions, that for the 
year 1871, has also been ininted, is in the hands of the binder, and will 
soon be ready for distribution. It consists of a single memoir of 602 
quarto pages, presenting the result of an elaborate original investigation 
by Lewis II. Morgan, esq., of Eochester, New York, on the ''Systems of 
Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family." 

This memoir, of which an account has been given in a previous report, 
was first referred to a commission consisting of Professor J. H. Mcllvaine 
and Professor William Henry Green, of Princeton, New Jersey, who re- 
commended its publication, but advised certain changes in the method of 



EEPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 17 

presenting tlie subject. After these modiflcation.s liatl been made, it 
was submitted to the American Oriental Society, and was by it referred 
to a special committee, consisting of Messrs. Hadley, Trumbull, and 
Whitney, who, having critically examined the memoir, reported that it 
contained a series of highly interesting facts, which, they believed, the 
students of philology and ethnology, though they might not accept all 
the conclusions of the author, would welcome as valuable contributions 
to science. 

The investigations of Professor Newcomb, relative to a new orbit of 
the planet Uranus, in continuation of those relative to the planet Xep- 
tune, an account of which was given in previous reports, have been tem- 
porarily interrupted by the visit of the author to Europe to observe the 
total eclipse of last December, and to collect ancient observations for 
correcting the mean motion of the moon. These investigations were 
commenced as far back as 1860, but Professor Newcomb had so little 
time to spare from oflicial duties, and had to depend so much upon him- 
self on account of the methods to be employed, that four years elapsed 
before even the first formula} for the i^erturbations were computed. The 
best accepted elements of the planets were first used, viz, those of 
Bouvard for Jupiter and Saturn, and those of Pierce and Kowalski for 
Neptune. The calculated places of Uranus and I^eptune were found 
from these data to differ so widely from the true ones given by observa- 
tion as to show that the elements of these planets which had been 
adopted were not to be relied on. A re-investigation of their orbits 
therefore became necessary. That of Neptune was made exhaustive. 
The magnitude of the corrections required in the old elements is shown by 
the fact that the longitude of the perihelion of Neptune was changed 
by about four degrees. This investigation was published by the Insti- 
tution in 1805, and the tables for predicting the position of the planet 
were immediately adopted by the nautical almanacs of England, Ger- 
many, and this country, and afterward by that of France, so that tha 
computations of Neptune's motion are now generally made from them. 

The elements of Uranus were next so far corrected by a preliminary 
investigation, that, with the perturbations already computed, the motion 
of the planet from the time of its discovery in 1781 until 18(32 was repre- 
sented within a very few seconds of arc. On collecting the perturba- 
tions of Saturn there appeared to be considerable discrepancy between 
the old ones employed in Bouvard's tables and those since computed' 
b}^ Hansen. As there could be little doubt of the correctness of the 
latter. Professor ISewcomb accepted them as the basis of a preliminary 
investigation of the orbit of Saturn, and obtained elements which repre- 
sented its motion near enough for the i)urpose desired. The elements 
of Jupiter were found to be sufdciently near the truth. The old com- 
putations of the ''first-order" of perturbations were then corrected, and to- 
guard against the possibility of an error the perturbations were then 
recomputed by an entirely different method. After long study and lab©r 
2 s 



18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the author was enabled to devise a method more simple than any before 
employed, of which the quantities previously calculated furnished the 
basis, and which has the great advantage of being easily applicable to 
the perturbations of the second order. The results of the two computa- 
tions have been found to agree very closely. The more important terms 
of the second order have been once computed, but will be gone over 
again to insure correctness. The most difficult part of the work is now 
completed. An appropriation has been made by the Institution for defray- 
ing the expense of the clerical labor which is required in preparing the 
tables and performing the other laborious arithmetical calculations 
necessary in reducing the abstract mathematical results to practical use. 

Among the papers accepted for publication are three by Major 
General J. G. Barnard, United States Army. The first of these relates 
to the "Precession of the Equinoxes and Nutation as identified with the 
phenomena of the Gyroscope." All writers who explain the '-Preces- 
sion" in a manner intended to be more or less adapted to popular com- 
prehension, assume or demonstrate certain elementary facts which are 
common to the general phenomena of the "Precession," and the move- 
ments of the philosophic toy, the "Gyroscope." The intention of this 
paper is to identify the phenomena, and to show that a common analysis 
leads, when properly adapted to the dilTerent circumstances, to their 
solution. As a matter of course, the introduction of the proper expres- 
sions for the external forces into the general equations of rotating bodies 
will give the particular equations for the special cases. In the 
Mecanique Celeste, are thus derived the expressions for i)recession and 
nutation ; but the analytical process is diiScult, and the point of identi- 
fication of the phenomena with those of the gyroscope is, in tliis point 
of view, too remote to be interesting. In this paper, solutions primarily 
obtained for the gyroscope are subsequently made use of to develop all 
the facts of precession and nutation. By the methods employed it is in- 
cidentally shown that the phenomena of "deviation" in rilled projectiles 
may be explained. 

The second paper by General Barnard is on the motions of a "freely 
suspended pendulum," and differs from other well known discussions of 
this problem in giving, as a preliminary, a simple explanation of the 
origin of the forces which, on the surface of the rotating earth, cause a 
progressive azimuthal motion of the plane of vibration ; and furnishing 
the analytical expressions for these identical with those of Poissou 
obtained by other processes. These same expressions exhibit forces 
which more or less sensibly affect all motions of material bodies on 
or near the earth's surface, as c. g. the tidal currents, the winds, 
the trajectories of projectiles, &c. The expressions obtained for the 
pendulum are developed with much greater detail than has been done 
in previous works. The differential expressions for the vibrations 
of the so-called "spherical pendulum" are integrated by development 
into series, awd expressions approximately accurate, obtained lor the 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19 

azimutlial motion of tlio apsides of the quasi-elliptical orbit. Inasmuch 
as in all actual experiments with the freely suspended pendulum the vi- 
brations soon assume the "spherical" character, these latter expressions 
are really important as corrections to the azimuthal motion properly due 
to the earth's rotation, and may explain the small variations from the 
latter whicli the experiments generally exhibit. It is believed that these 
corrections have never before been applied, or indeed actually in\t into 
simple analytical shape. It is farther shown that if a freely suspended 
pendulum is made to swing through a great circle with very high velocity, 
the plane of its orbit remains invariable in direction, in space, and that 
in this phase the phenomenon is identical with that shown by a gyro- 
scopic disk, as it was arranged by Foucault to exhibit the rotation of 
the earth. 

A third i)aper by the same author is '' on the Phenomena of Preces- 
sion and Nutation as affected by the internal structure of the earth," 
and is an attempt to corroborate the dictum of Sir William Thompson, 
that the phenomena of the precession and nutation do authorize some con- 
clusions — very limited, indeed — concerning the internal structure of the 
earth, inasmuch as it is proved that the very commonly received geo- 
logic hypothesis of a thin crust enveloping a molten fluid is inconsist- 
ent with the actual phenomena as observed. 

As the basis of the argument, the theorem is analytically demonstrated 
that an entirely fluid earth (?*. e., entirely destitute of solid crust and 
without internal viscidity) would exhibit neither precession nor nuta- 
tion. In other words, that the tilting effects of the solar and lunar 
attractions would be exactly neutralized by the centrifugal forces due 
to the tidal protuberances they develop. Pari ratione, if the figure of 
the earth yields at all to the attractions, the precession and nutation 
will be neutralized in exact proportion to the extent (as compared with 
a perfect fluid globe) to which that yielding obtains. 

Sir W. Thompson has proved that even an earth entirely solid must 
yield, unless its rigidity to the depth of two or three thousand miles 
greatly exceeds that of steel ; a thiii crust, say thirty or forty miles 
thick, such as geological hypothesis attributes to the earth, if envelop- 
ing a fluid nucleus, would yield nearly as much as if the earth were 
entirely fluid. But the observed rates of precession and nutation con- 
form almost exactly to the hypothesis of perfect rigidity. Hence, the 
hypothesis of a thin crust is untenable. Incidentally the fallacy of the 
experiment (with rotating spherical glass shells, containing water) and 
argument of M. Delaunay to invalidate the conclusions of Professor 
Hopkins and Professor Thompson is exhibited, and the opinions of 
Poisson concerning the internal structure of the earth are, according to 
the author, shown to coincide better with observed facts than those of 
any other physicist. 

Another paper has been examined and accepted for publicatioii 
entitled " The Secular Variations of the Orbits of the Planets," by John 



20 KEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

K. Stockwell. If but oue planet revolved around the sun its path in space 
would be a true ellipse, which would always be the same in form and 
position ; but if several planets revolve at the same time around the 
central body, their mutual attraction will disturb the regularity of the 
elliptical motion. The mutual action of the planets on each other pro- 
duces two classes of disturbance, one of which consists in a change of the 
motion of each planet in its elliptical orbit, in some parts of its path 
moving faster and in others slower than it would if undisturbed ; the 
other consists of a change in the form and relative position of the 
elliptical orbit. The first is called the periodic inequalities, and the 
second the secular variations. They are, however, both periodical, 
though the first runs through its changes in a short time, while the lat- 
ter requires centuries to complete its cycle. The object of the investi- 
gations of Mr. Stockwell is to determine the numerical value of the 
secular changes of the elements of the orbits of tiie planets of our sys- 
tem. Several partial solutions of this problem have been obtained by 
previous authors, but they have been approximations based upon data 
less perfect than that which is at present aflbrded in the discovery of 
the new planet Neptune, and the better determination of the masses of 
the other bodies composing our system. 

The expense of the publication of this paper is defrayed by the lib- 
eral donation of $1,200 from a friend of science, who declines to allow 
his name to be mentioned. We cannot, however, permit the fact to pass 
unnoticed of this example of the high appreciation of the value of 
abstract science since it does honor to the intelligence and liberality of oue 
of our citizens engaged in active business life, and may serve as an 
example to stimulate other donations of a similar character. 

In several of the previous reports mention has been made of a gram- 
mar and dictionary of the Choctaw language, in process of preparation 
for the Institution by Dr. Byington, for many years a missionary among 
the Choctaw Indians. This work was finally submitted to the Institu- 
tion for publication, but having been found on examination to recpiire 
corrections it was returned to the author in order that these might be 
made. Before, however, this work was completed, Dr. Byington died, 
and his MS. was given for revision to Dr. Brinton, of Philadelphia. 
It was again submitted to the Institution and referred to a commission 
for critical examination. Dr. Brinton, however, not satisfied with the 
report of this commission, withdrew the memoir, and presented it to the 
American Philosophical Society, in whose transactions it has since been 
l>riuted. jSTo objection was made on the part of the Institution to this 
transfer, since it has been from the first a part of its policy never to 
expend any portion of its funds in doing that which can be done by 
other means. 

It will be remembered that in 1867, at the suggestion and expense of 
the Institution, a geological exploration of a portion of the Louisiana 
coast was made by Professor E. W. Hilgard, of the University of Mis- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21 

sissippi, mainly with a view to ascertain tlie geological age and mode of 
occurrence of the rock-salt deposit of Petite Anse. In the absence of 
definite data concerning the general geology of Louisiana, his observa- 
tions on the formations of the coast (an abstract of which was published 
in the American Journal of Science, January, 1869) demonstrated, so 
far as the salt deposit was concerned, only the fact that in point of age 
it was anterior to the drift. The impulse thus given to geological re- 
search in Louisiana, however, soon led to farther explorations. By sub- 
scription, and a special appropriation obtained from the commissioners 
of immigration of the State, the New Orleans Academy of Sciences 
raised a fund for the purpose of enabling Professor Hilgard to make a 
general geological reconnaissance of Louisiana, which was executed in 
May and June, 1869. This enabled him to communicate to the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science, at its Salem meeting, a 
general sketch of the geology of Louisiana. Almost simultaneously 
with the organization of Professor Ililgard's second exi^loration, steps 
were taken,by the faculty of the University of Louisiana to secure legisla- 
tive aid for a geological and physical survey of the State. The latter is 
now in progress, and the second annual report on the work will soon be 
published. 

As regards the rock-salt deposit. Professor Hilgard's observations in 
Northern Louisiana point to the conclusion that it is but one of a series 
of cretaceous outliers, traversing the State in a northwest and south- 
•east direction, and indicating the existence of an ancient ridge which 
must have exerted an important influence upon the physical conforma- 
tion of the Lower Mississippi Valley. The remarkable gyi)sum and 
sulphur deposits of Calcasieu are likewise, in his opinion, referable to 
the same age. Professor Hilgard has nearly completed a final memoir 
on the geology of the Petite Anse region for publication by the Insti- 
tution ; the results of his simultaneous exploration of the Lower Mis- 
sissippi and delta having been communicated to the American Associ- 
tion at the Troy meeting, and subsequently }) resented to the American 
Journal of Science. 

Dr. Horatio C. Wood, of Philadelphia, having completed an elaborate 
work on the fresh-water algte, principally of microscopic forms, pre- 
sented it to the American Pliilosophical Society and also to the Academy 
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, but the expense of publication pre- 
vented either of these societies from undertaking it. It was therefore 
offered to this Institution, and after a critical examination has been 
accepted for publication. As a systematic description of the fresh- 
water algae of North America it will form a complement to the great 
works on the marine algae, by Dr. Harvej", x:)ublished some years ago 
by the Smithsonian Institution. It will be copiously illustrated by 
drawings, made principally under the microscope and will serve to illus- 
trate an obscure department of botany, as well as to furnish the means 
by which investigators of minute microscopic organisms may make the 



22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

comparison of fossil and recent forms, a subject which is now attract- 
ing much attention in Europe and America. 

The eighth volume of Miscellaneous Collections contains the following 
papers : 

1. Monographs of the Diptera of oSTorth America. Part IV. Prepared 
for the Smithsonian Institution by E. Osten Sackeu. Svo, pp. 358. 
Four plates and seven wood-cuts. 

2. Catalogue of the Orthoptera of IsTorth America described previous 
to 18G7. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by Samuel H. 
Scudder. Svo, pp. 110. 

3. Land and Fresh-water Shells of North America. Part I. Pulmo- 
nata Geophila. By W. G. Binney and T. Bland. Svo, pp. 328, and 544 
wood-cuts. 

4. Arrangement of Families of Birds. Adopted provisionally by the 
Smithsonian Institution. Svo, pp. 8. 

5. Circular to Oflicers of the Hudson's Bay Company. Svo, pp. C. 

G. Suggestions relative to Objects of Scientific Investigations in 
Eussian America. Svo, pp. 10. 

7. Circular relating to Collections in Archaeology and Ethnology. 
Svo, pp. 2. 

8. Circular to Entomologists. Svo, pp. 2. 

9. Circular relative to Collections of Birds from Middle and South 
America. Svo, pp. 2. 

10. Smithsonian Museum JMiscellanea. Pp. SS. 

The ninth volume of Miscellaneous Collections contains — 

1. Bibliography of North American Conchology i)revious to the year 
1860. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by W. G. Binney. 
Part II. Foreign Authors. Svo, i^p. 302. 

2. Catalogue of Publications of Societies and of Periodical Works 
belonging to the Smithsonian Institution. Deposited in the Library of 
Congress, 1860. Svo, pp. 596. 

In accordance with the plan adopted by the Institution of furnishing 
facilities and means of identifying specimens of natural history in its 
different departments, an arrangement was made with Professor De 
Saussure, of Geneva, Switzerland, the highest authority on the class of 
insects known as hymeuoptera, (of which the principal forms are wasjjs, 
bees, &c.,) to prepare a monograph of this part of entomology. Large 
collections have been sent to him for the work, to which he has devoted 
several years of gratuitous labor. The first part of the manuscript was 
completed in the French language in 1863, and for translation was placed 
in the hands of a competent entomologist, Mr. Edward Norton, of 
Farmington, Connecticut, who volunteered his services from a desire of 
advancing science. This part of the memoir was prepared for the press 
in 1864, but as Mr. Norton was obliged to be absent from the country 
several years, the printing was delayed until his return, in order that 
tl«e proof-sheets might be properly corrected. By this time, however. 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23 

SO much new material liad been collected it was tlionght advisable to 
refer the work anew to Professor De Saussure, from whom it has again 
been received, and after having been a second time revised by Mr. 
Norton will soon be sent to the press. 

The Institution in carrying out its original plan of the preparation of 
manuals of natural history, has thus made provision for publications 
on the coleoptera, lepidoptera, neuroptera, diptera, orthoptera, and 
hymenoptera. Of the few remaining orders, a similar monograph of 
the liemiptera, by P. K. Uhler, esq., has been prepared, and will be pub- 
lished when the funds will permit. 

For many years the Institution has intended, in consequence of the 
scattered nature of the accounts of the botany of the region west of the 
Mississippi, and the absence of any text-booh in which correct descrip- 
tions could be found, to publish a complete list of the plaiits, with all the 
synonyms and species. For a working botanist, engaged in the study of 
our western plants, the search for what has been written takes more time 
and labor than all the rest of his work, besides which there is always 
the probability of overlooking some writings of importance. The design 
has not heretofore been carried out, on account of the pressure of other 
operations, but recently the great need of this aid to botanical research 
having been urged on the Institution by some of the principal botanists 
of the country, arrangements have been made with Mr. Sereno Watson, 
of New Haven, to prepare the work in question. The expense of prepar- 
ation will be borne by private subscription, the Smithsonian Institution 
paying for the clerical labor and for the i>ublication. Mr. Watson is 
esteemed highly competent for the duty intrusted to him, and is favor- 
ably known from his labors as botanist of the exploration of the fortieth 
parallel^under Clarence King, esq. Good progress has been made in 
the work, and during the year we expect the manuscript to be com- 
pleted. 

In still further pursuance of the plan initiated by the Institution of 
furnishing aids for the arrangement of collections, as illustrated by its 
series of check-lists of specimens, an article by Professor Tlieodore Gill 
is in process of publication, entitled " An Arrangement of the Families 
of Mollusks." His sj'stem has been adopted provisionally as that by 
which the extensive collections of the Smithsonian shells are to be arranged 
and has been approved by some of the principal zoologists of the country. 
To extend its benefits, and farnish a similar guide to other museums, 
the list embraces families, recent and fossil, accepted by the best natu- 
ralists of the day, although embodying results of special investigations 
made by Professor Gill and Mr. Ball at the Institution. 

The Annual Eeport for the year 1869 was printed as heretofore, by 
order of Congress, but there was a reduction of one thousand in the 
number of extra copies usually furnished to the Institution. This re- 
duction must have been the result of inadvertence, as we have long 
urged upon Congress the great demand for the document as a reason 



24 EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 

for the increase of the edition, and have been assured by many Senators 
and liepresentatives that this would be made. The applications for the 
report have become so numerous that it is impossible to supply all who 
are entitled to receive it. In this connection the propriety should be 
urged upon Congress of ordering new editions of such of the reports as 
have been stereotyped. The printing of these could be done at very 
little expense, and would enable the Institution to furnish volumes, for 
which there is daily application from members of Congress in behalf of 
libraries and public institutions, to complete sets of the series. 

In addition to the report of the Secretary, giving an account of the 
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year 
1SG9, and the proceedings of the Board of Eegents, it contains the fol- 
lowing articles : Memoirs of Kepler, Thomas Young, Auguste Bravais, 
C. T. P. Von Martins, and Stefano Marianini ; an original paper on the 
chemistry of the earth, by T. Sterry Hunt ; articles on the electrical 
currents of the earth ; phenomena of flight in the animal kingdom ; the 
northern seas ; report on the transactions of the Society of Physics and 
Natural History of Geneva ; an original article relative to Coronado's 
march in search of the seven cities of Cibola, and a discussion of their 
probable location ; social and religious condition of tlie lower races of 
man ; principles and methods of palaeontology ; remarks on the Cara 
Gigantesca of Yucatan; forests and their climatic influence; meteor- 
ites; remarkable forms of hail-stones in Georgia; eruption of the 
volcano of Colima. It is proper to remark that the article on the flight 
of birds was translated from the French by Mr. W. H. Dall, whose 
name was accidentally omitted at the head of the article. 

For the purpose of forming a general map of the North American 
Continent, exhibiting the plains, mountains, valleys, &c., the Smith- 
sonian Institution has collected a large amount of material relative to 
altitudes, which has been placed in the hands of W. L. Nicholson, esq., 
topographer of the United States Post Office Department, to be dis- 
cussed and elaborated. 

There must, however, still remain in the hands of individuals and 
corporations records of an important character, which would be of 
great value in j)roperly carryingout the enterprise. The correspondents 
of the Institution are requested to send to it printed copies or original 
manuscripts of records, especially of plotted profiles or maps, pertaining 
to this subject. 

In stating the heights, as furnished by surveys for railroads, Avhether 
actually constructed or only projected, it is desirable that the levelings 
be referred to some known point on connecting or intersecting roads, 
or to the water-surface (high water, low water, or mean tide) of the ocean 
or of one of the great lakes, or to the level of a noted stage of water 
(high or low) of some river. The crossings of the watercourses, ridges, 
and summits are particularly desired, as well as all considerable and 
characteristic changes of level, giving, where much diflereuce exists, 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



25 



both gracle-line and original surface; the levels of all intersections with 
other roads are important as means of comparison, and for checking 
results. Due credit will be given to all contributors to this work. 

Exclianges. — The system of international exchanges, established by 
the Institution, has been continued with unabated zeal during the past 
year. The number of foreign establishments to which the Smithsonian 
and other publications are distributed, and from which returns are 
received now amounts to over seventeen hundred. It includes not only 
all the first-class libraries and societies which have established a repu- 
tation, but also a, large proportion of the minor institutions of the Old 
World. The following table exhibits the number of foreign institutions 
in each country with which the Smithsonian Institution is at present in 
correspondence: 



Sweden 19 

Norway 11 

Iceland 2 

Denmark 25 

Kussia 154 

Holland 59 

Germany 529 

Switzerland 51 

Belgium 119 



France 

Italy 

Portugal . ' 

Spain 

Great Britain and Ireland . 
Greece 



80 

141 

5 

9 

286 

C 



Turkey 

Africa 

Asia 

Australia 

New Zealand 

Polynesia 

South America . , , 

West Indies 

Mexico 

Central America. 
British America. . 
General 



10 

14 

30 

25 

10 

1 

31 

6 

5 

1 

27 



1,744 



During the year 1870, 1,805 packages, containing many thousand dif- 
ferent articles, were transmitted to foreign countries. These jiackages 
were contained in 121 boxes, having a cubical content of 1,189 feet, and 
weighing 31,383 pounds. The parcels received at the Institution for 
parties in this country numbered 3,705. The separate volumes con- 
tained in these parcels would largely increase the number, the Institu- 
tion having received 5,182 articles for its own library. The war between 
Prance and Germany, which commenced in July, affected, in some 
degree, the number ©f packages received from these countries, and it is 
l)robable that the result of this unfortunate conflict will be still more 
marked in the diminution of the number of scientific publications which 
may be received from Europe in the year 1871. The Smithsonian pack- 
ages are passed through all the custom-houses of the world free of duty. 
The only exception which existed at the date of the last report was 
that of Italy, and through the intervention of the American minister, 
Hon. Mr. Marsh, the Italian government has since granted the same 
privilege. 



26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

As in previous years, the Institution has received great benefit from 
the privileges of free freight for its packages, accorded by a large number 
of steamboat and railroad lines of transportation. In this report, as in 
former ones, reference should be made to the liberality of the Pacific Mail 
Steamship Company ; of the Panama Railroad Company ; of the Pacific 
Steam Navigation Company ; of the New York and Mexican Steamship 
Line ; of the New York and Brazilian Line ; of the North German Lloyds ; 
of the Hamburg American Packet Company ; of the French Transatlan- 
tic Company ; of the Inman Lhie ; and of the Cunard Line. I am happy 
to announce that to the foregoing list is to be added the Anchor Line of 
steamers between New York and Glasgow, of which Messrs. Henderson. 
& Brother are the New York agents ; and I would recommend that an 
official acknowledgment be made, on the part of the board, to these gen- 
tlemen for their courtesy in offering to the Institution the same privileges 
accorded by the other New York lines. The Union Pacific Eailroad 
Company has granted free transportation, although thus far we have not 
been able to avail ourselves of the privilege. The Adams Exi^ress Com- 
pany also continues its liberal policy in regard to our freight. It would 
be quite impossible for the Institution, without the aid thus liberally 
afforded, to carry out, in its full efficiency, its system of international 
exchanges, which, by facilitating the intercourse of scientific institutions 
and of students throughout the world, constitutes one of ks most impor- 
tant features. 

It is also my duty, as well as a great personal gratification, to inform 
you of the liberality of several of these companies, extended to myself 
on the occasion of the visit to Europe which I made during the past 
summer, in obedience to your authority ; the agents of the North Ger- 
man Lloyds, Messrs. Schumaker & Co., of Baltimore, and Messrs. Oel- 
richs & Co., of New York, as well as Mr, C. G. Prancklyn, the agent of 
the Cunard steamers, having offered me a free passage across the ocean. 

Library. — As in previous years, large accessions have been made to 
the library of the Institution, principally through the system of interna- 
tional exchanges. The following is a statement of the number of books, 
maps, and charts received during 1870, most of which have been depos- 
ited in the National Library in accordance with the arrangement en- 
tered into several years ago, and fully explained in xireceding reports: 

Volumes : 

Octavo or less 842 

Quarto or larger 270 

1, 113 

Parts of volumes : 

Octavo or less , 1, 263 

Quarto or larger 501 

1, 824 



EEPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 27 

Painpblets: 

Octavo or less 1, 7G4 

Quarto or larger 302 

2, 0G6 

Maps and charts 179 

Total receipts 5, 182 



The following are some of the larger donations received in 1870 : 

From the ministry of the interior, Christiania, Norway, "Den Norske 
Lods;",2 volumes, octavo, and 71 charts. 

From the Imperial Botanical Garden, St. Petersburg, " Sertum 
Petropolitarum seu icones et descriptiones plantarum quce in Horto 
Botanico Imperiali Petropolitano floruerent." Parts I and II, 1846 ; 
III and IV, 1869. Folio. 

From His Majesty the King of Prussia, " Danzig und seine Bauwerke 
in malerischen Origiual-Radirungeu mit geometrischen details und 
text, Von Johann Carl Schultzj '' volumes I-III, oblong folio. 

From Dr. Koch, Berlin, 127 pamphlets, University Theses. 

From the Royal Public Library, Dresden, " Eiedel's Codex Diplo- 
maticus Braudenburgeusis;" 41 volumes, quarto. 

From the Agricultural Association, Potsdam, " Zeitschrift ; " volumes 
III-XVIII, octavo. " Monatschrift," volumes XIX-XXIII, octavo; 
and " Amtliches Vereiusblatt," 1869, quarto. 

From the Austrian government, " Reich s-Gesetz-Blatt fiir das Kaiser 
thuiv Oesterreich ; "' 1849-1869, quarto, 21 volumes. 

From the Musee de Douai, " Dictionnaire des Sciences M(§dicales;" 
volumes I-LX, quarto. 

From the minister of public instruction, Florence, 11 volumes " On 
Education, Public and Private." 

From the minister of public works, Florence, 25 volumes and 16 
pamphlets. Hydraulics, Navigation, and Engineering, &c. 

From the meteorological ofQce, London, " Daily Weather Reports," 
July 1, 1868, to June 30, 1870, (4 volumes and 6 parts,) folio; and 
" Quarterly Weather Report," part I. 

From William Blackmore, esq., Liverpool, " Hoare's Ancient History 
of Wiltshire," volumes I and II, folio, beautifully illustrated with 
maps and plates. ''The People of India: A series of photographic 
illustrations, with descriptive letter-press ; " volumes I-IV, 1868, quarto. 
" Tree and Serpent Worship, or Illustrations of Mythology and Art in 
India in the First and Fourth Centuries after Christ;" quarto; and 
various other works. 

From the State of Illinois, State documents, 14 volumes. 

The incorporation of the library of the Institution with that of Con- 
gress continues to be productive of the results which were anticipated 
from this union. The extensive series of transactions of learned 



28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

societies, the number of sets and volumes of which are constantly 
increasing through the Smithsonian exchanges, is an important feature 
of the National Library, while the use of the books on special subjects 
belonging to the Government greatly enlarges the facilities for investi- 
gation of the collaborators of the Institution. From the first a har- 
monious co-operation has existed between the two establishments, and 
on all occasions we have found Mr. Spofford, the accomplished librarian 
of Congress, ready to consult the interests of the Institution, and insert 
on his list of purchases any work which we might indicate as desirable 
for scientific research. Professor Gill, formerly in charge of the Smith- 
sonian library, and now one of the principal assistants in the Library of 
Congress, still continues his connection with the Institution, and in 
spending, as he does, most of the hours unemijloyed in ofiicial duty in 
scientific research at the Smithsonian building, affords the means of 
constant communication. 

The l^ational Library is rapidly increasing in value, both in regard 
to the number and the character of the books which are annually added to 
its collections. The sources of increase are, first, the books purchased 
by the liberal appropriation of Congress ; second, the Smithsonian ex- 
changes ; and, third, the dej^osit of books in accordance with the copy- 
right law. From this last source it has lately received a verj^ large 
addition of all the American works secured by copy-right since the first 
enactment of the copy-right law, and xuTviously in charge of the Secre- 
tary of the Interior. These books exhibit the phases of thought and 
the progress of the mental activity of this country for nearly half a 
century, and have, therefore, a special value independent of their literary 
or scientific character. 

At the time of the organization of the Smithsonian Institution, Con- 
gress directed that in order to secure the right of authorship of a book 
three copies of it should be deposited as evidence of title, one in the 
library of the Institution, another in that of Congress, and a third in 
the ofSce of the United States district court. In the case of a costly 
work, perhaps in several volumes, this was a tax on the author or pub- 
lisher for the protection of his property which was not improperly con- 
sidered oppressive. From considerations of justice, therefore, as well as 
of a prudent regard to the cost of the care of these books, the Smithso- 
nian Institution was the first to petition Congress that the law might be 
so modified that only two copies should be required to be deposited as 
evidence of title, and these in the Library of Congress. The proposi- 
tion suggested in this petition was adopted, and I believe the law en- 
acted in accordance with it now meets with general approbation. It 
is of some importance that this fact should be mentioned, because copies 
of books are still occasionally sent to the Institution from a want of a 
knowledge of the existing law. 

Besides the general library of the Government in the Capitol each of 
the separate Departments, as well as several of the bureaus, has a spe- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29 

cial library. When we add to these the Washington Library and that 
of the Young Men's Christian Association, the aggregate of the books 
in the city of Washington must be greater than that in any other city 
in the country in proportion to the population. Unfortunately, how- 
ever, these collections are not at present as readily accessible to the 
public as could be desired. The rapid increase, however, of the Na- 
tional Library will soon render the erection of a separate building abso- 
lutely necessary, and in the new arrangement which will result from 
this, the different libraries can, perhaps, be brought into harmonious 
relation, and while i^rovision is afforded for the accommodation of a 
much larger number of readers, the number of hours during which the 
books are accessible may be increased. 

Explorations and collections. — The Institution has continued, during 
the past year, as heretofore, to prosecute researches and explorations 
in ethnology and natural history, both by detailing special agents for 
particular work, and by co-operating with private individuals and 
Government expeditious, in securing the desired result. 

Among the more important of the first-mentioned class was an inves- 
tigatioiT among the mounds of Tennessee, under Mr. J. P. Stelle. This 
gentleman spent a number of months in examining carefully several 
groups of ancient mounds, and has furnished an interesting account of 
his researches, accompanied by topographical drawings of the localities, 
and large numbers of specimens, obtained in the course erf his explora- 
tions. The report of Mr. Stelle will be printed in the appendix to the 
annual report of the Institution. 

Professor Baird, during his visit to Wood's Hole, in Vineyard Sound, 
continued his investigations of previous years among the shell-heaps 
of the coast, and added largely to the collection in archaeology. He 
also devoted much attention to the study of the habits of the marine 
fishes of that part of the coast. Under the special direction of Profes- 
sor H. E. Webster, a system of dredging was carried on in the same 
locality, from which an interesting series of mollusca and other marine 
animals was procured. 

Captain Dow, of tlie Panama Eailroad service, has furnished 
important collections from Central America, among them the skulls 
of what will probably prove to be a new species of tapir. Mr. Durkee, 
of Wyoming Territory, has supplied a large number of specimens of 
nests and eggs, with fossils and other objects from his locality, 
embracing several species not before in the collection. 

The largest collections, however, received during the year, are those 
made by Professor Haydeu, as United States geologist for the Territo- 
ries. These, in accordance with the law of Congress making the Insti- 
tution the depository of all objects of nature and art, natural history, 
etc., belonging to the United States, have been sent from time to time 
to the Institution, forming an aggregate of about sixty boxes, and em- 



30 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

bracing large numbers of new species of fossil mammals, reptiles, and 
fishes, with other interesting objects. 

Mr. R. McFarlane, Mr. James Lockhart, and Mr. Straehan Jones, who 
have been extremely liberal to the Institution in previous j'ears, have 
again made important additions to its store of specimens, illustrative 
of the natuial history of the region of the far northwest. 

In accordance with the understanding between the Institution and 
the Medical Department of the Government, the specimens of human 
crania obtained by us have been transferred to the Army Medical Mu- 
seum, which has, in turn, sent to the Institution all other articles it 
had received in ethnology and archeology. By this means a very 
extensive and valuable series of specimens has been obtained by the 
Institution during the past year. A full list of the additions thus made, 
will be found in the appendix to the present report. 

Another collection worthy of special mention was presented to the Insti- 
tution by the Colonial Museum, at Wellington, New Zealand. This 
consisted of bones of the JDinornis, the skins and skeleton of the 
Apteryx, skins of other birds, shells, and ethnological specimens of 
the country, and was partly in return for a valuable series of books 
presented by the Institution to the colonial government. 

The labors of Dr. Edw. Palmer, already well known in connection with 
the ethnological museum of the Institution, have been continued during 
the present year, and large numbers of articles of Indian manufacture, 
both ancient amd modern, attest his zeal and success as a collector. A 
more detailed report will be made upon these when the entire collection 
is received. Lieutenant Eiug, of the Army, has continued his valuable 
donations from Alaska, embracing specimens of animals as well as 
Indian relics of great antiquity. From Captain C. M. Scammon, of 
the United States revenue marine, we have received a number of speci- 
mens and several important communications in reference to the seals and 
whales of the Pacific coast. A memoir submitted by this gentleman 
to the Institution has been published by the Philadelphia Academy of 
Natural Sciences, and is considered an important contribution to the 
knowledge of the subject already existing. Dr. G. M. Sternberg and 
his brother, Mr. C. H. Sternberg, have transmitted extensive and val- 
uable collections of the tertiary fossil plants of Kansas, and other objects 
of interest. The former have been found, on examination by Mr. ]\reek, 
to contain a number of new species, which will shortly be described. 

It will be remembered that an exploration of the Isthmus of Te- 
huantepec, by Professor Sumichrast, has been in progress for some 
years past, under the direction of the Institution, the expense of which 
was defrayed in part by the Kentucky University at Lexington, by the 
Boston Society of Natural History, and by the Academy of Natural 
Sciences of Philadelphia. The labors of Professor Sumichrast were 
brought to a close during the past summer, and several of the collabo- 
rators of the Institution are now at work in investigating particular 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETAEY. 31 

branclies of the collection with a view to prepare reports on them. 
The birds of the collection are in charge of George N. Lawrence ; the 
insects, of Mr. Scndcler ; the shells, of Mr. Bland ; and the reptiles and 
fish, of Mr. Cope. The series is very complete, and is believed to ex])ress 
essentially the zoological character of an interesting portion of Mexico. 
As specially noteworthy in this connection, is the donation by the 
Imperial Zoological Mnseum of Vienna, of the skin and skeleton of the 
European aurochs. This animal, according to Professor Baird, is a 
species of bison, and very closely related to the American bufl'alo, if, 
indeed, it be not, as some naturalists assert, the same. It was 
formerly found in abundance in Europe, and is mentioned by Caisar, 
Tacitus, and other classical writers. It has been almost entirely exter- 
minated, existing at the present time only to the number of a few head 
in Lithuania and in the Caucasus. The European specimens are pre- 
served with jealous care by the Eussian authorities, and severe penal- 
ties are imposed for killing or even injuring them. 

The number of donations to the collection of the Institution received 
during the past year is so large that we find it impossible at this time to 
give to each that special mention which it deserves. A list of them, how- 
ever, with the names of the donors, will be found in the apjieudix to the 
present report ; and I embrace this opportunity to express the thanks 
of the Institution to all who have thus aided in furthering its objects, 
and to invite their kind co-operation for the future. 

The usual statistics in regard to the number of specimens catalogued 
during the year, and the extent to which the distribution of duplicates 
has been made, will be found in the accompanying tables. It will be 
seen that the average of the past years has been fully maintained, and that 
as far as the material and force at the command of the Institution would 
permit, the work has been faithfully carried on. 

The museum. — Congress having made an appropriation for the better 
display of the specimens belonging to the Government, it becomes a 
matter of importance to carefully consider the character vvhich is to be 
given to the national museum. There is scarcely any subject connected 
with science and education to which more attention is given at the pres- 
ent day than that of collections of objects of nature and art, known under 
the general denomination of museums. This arises from their growing 
importance as aids to scientific investigation and instruction. As they 
are intended to subserve diiferent ends they are of different characters. 
There are, on the one hand, large central museums supported by Gov- 
ernment appropriations, and on the other, local museums which are 
established and sustained by societies and voluntary individual aid. 
The latter are established in almost all parts of the Old World, and 
are becoming somewhat numerous in this country. The special aim 
of the directors of these should be to make full collections of all the 
objects of natural history in their vicinity, not only for the instruction of 



32 EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the members of tlie society, and to diffuse a taste for the refiued, iutellect- 
ual pleasure, which is derived from tlie minute observation of the natural 
workl, but also to furnish lists of local floras and faunas, and of miueral- 
ogical and geological localities which may serve to establish the area 
of distribution of special objects of nature, and thus contribute to the 
extension as well as the diffusion of knowledge. The directors of muse- 
ums of this character ought to be careful not to attempt to form general 
collections, other, perhaps, than a limited number of specimens for com- 
parison, since it will soon be found that the cost and labor of the proper 
care and exhibition of the local collections will equal the means which 
can be commanded for this purpose. 

Large museums or collections supported by Government appropria- 
tions are of different characters, in accordance with the objects they are 
designed to subserve. They may be intended exclusively for scientific 
research, and for this purpose consist of large numbers of specimens and 
duplicates, as it were, of the raw materials of science, which have never 
been investigated, but which may serve for the study, of the produc- 
tions of entirely unexplored regions. It has been the policy of this 
Institution to make collections of this kind, to submit them to experts 
for critical examination, and to publish such descriptions as would 
render them subservient to the progress of scientific generalization. If 
these descriptions were exhaustive, the original specimens would no 
longer be required for further scientific investigation; but, unfortunately, 
the characteristics and peculiarities of the specimens ai-e only partially 
recognized and represented at any one period, and hence it becomes 
necessary from time to time to go over the same ground in order to 
verify or disprove new and ingenious suggestions as to peculiarities and 
relations not hitherto recognized; the specimens must therefore be pre- 
served, especially if they are of such a character as cannot readily be 
replaced. In making such collections the Smithsonian Institution has 
done, perhaps, more than any other establishment during the twenty-four 
years of its existence. It might, however", have effected much more good 
and extended its influence more widely if all the duplicate specimens 
had been made up into sets and distributed soon after they were col- 
lected. But this was impossible with the limited means at the command 
of the Institution and the assistance it could obtain from voluntary 
unpaid collaborators. Besides this, some advantages have resulted to 
science from the retention in the Institution of a large number of every 
variety of a class of specimens. This has enabled the naturalist to make 
comparisons v/hich would have been otherwise impossible, to mark pecu- 
liarities connected with age, sex, food, climate, etc., and to observe the 
diversities of form and structure due to the varying conditions of lil'e. 
As an illustration of this remark we may refer to the results which Pro- 
fessor Baird has been enabled to arrive at from the unrivalled opportu- 
nity which he has had in the extensive collection of the Institution, of 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33 

studying the relatious of nearly sixty tbousand specimens of the birds 
of North America. 

The object of the collection we have just described is exclusively the 
advance of science. The specimens require comparatively but little 
space for use and preservation. Not being intended for public exhibition 
they need not be mounted, but luaj' be kept in drawers, or packed away 
in labeled boxes or casks until wanted for a special investigation. 

Another class of large museums are of a mixed character, combin- 
ing in their object scientific investigation with special systematic and 
collegiate instruction. Of this class is the great museum at Cambridge, 
supported principally by the State of Massachusetts, and under the 
direction of Professor Agassiz. This museum, which may be consid- 
ered a model of its class, embraces — first, an immense number of origi- 
nal specimens, in the study and description of which a number of 
accomplished naturalists are continuously employed ; second, a series 
of specimens which have been scientifically described, and so arranged 
in accordance with their afSnities as to enable the student in any 
branch of natural history- to obtain, with the least expenditure of labor, 
a definite knowledge of what is known of the objects to which he is 
devoting his attention ; third, a series of specimens of genera so 
arranged as to serve as illustrations of the courses of lectures to 
the students of the university on such general principles of natural 
history as form an essential part of a liberal education. This museum, 
therefore, aftbrds ample means for the advancement of science by origi- 
nal investigation ; for the special training of students who desire to 
devote themselves to natural history, and for collegiate instruction, 
while the facilities which it is calculated to afford in these lines are only 
limited by the funds which it can command. 

Another class of museums supported at the public expense are those 
intended almost exclusively for popular instruction and amusement. 
Museums of this class have been established in several of the principal 
cities of Great Britain, and I doubt not that the beneficial effects they 
are producing will induce other cities to follow their example. The 
most important of these is the one at Liverpool, in which series of 
generic specimens are admirably mounted and so arranged as to clearly 
exhibit their relations and afQuities. They are, moreover, all distinctly 
labeled, so that the visitor, almost without an effort, receives definite 
imjn^essions, valuable in themselves, and which, by association of ideas, 
become more important as centers around which other ideas, derived 
from future reading and observation, may be clustered. The impres- 
sions made through the eye are not only the most definite, but also the 
most indelible. Museums of this kind ought to be established at the 
public expense in every city or comnumitj' which can aflbrd the means 
for their support. So popular are collections of objects of natural his- 
tory and ethnology, that large establishments of mere heterogeneous 
materials are frequentlv sources of profit to those to whom thev belong. 
3s 



34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

lu some cases, iu a better class of museums, a small admission fee is 
demanded, and the whole proceeds of this expended in sustaining and 
enlarging' the collections. As an example of this I may mention the 
public museum established by Mr. Woodward in San Francisco, which 
is not only a source of continued amusement to the inhabitants of that 
city, but also a means of adult education, since the specimens are gener- 
ally well classified and properly labeled. Advantage should be taken 
through museums, of a feature of the human mind essential to pro- 
gress, the desire for novelty, to lead the public to the employment of 
the intellectual pleasure derived from the study and contemplation of 
nature. It is truly surprising how tastes may be formed, how objects 
before disregarded may, when viewed as a part of a natui'al family, be 
invested with attractions which shall ever after render them sources of 
refined pleasure and unalloyed enjoyment. 

While the Smithsonian Institution should continue to devote a por- 
tion of its own funds to assist iu explorations which have for their 
object the advance of science, the public museum, with the care of 
which it is intrusted by Congress, should, in my opinion, without detract- 
ing from its scientific character, largely partake of the popular element. 
It is to be supported by the Treasury of the United States, and should, 
therefore, be an object of interest to the large number of visitors who 
are annually drawn to Washington by curiosity or otherwise, and who 
cherish a i^atriotic i)ride in whate\ er redounds to the rei)utation of the 
national capital. 

Besides specimens properly labeled for study, especially of the con- 
tinent of ISTortli America, it should contain those to fully illustrate in 
part, at least, the more prominent divisions of the animal, vegetable, 
and mineral kingdoms. These should be so arranged, regard being had 
to artistic effect, as to exhibit the principles of classification, the relation 
of organs to one another and to those of their allies, the phases of their 
organization, and other peculiarities relating to their habits and places 
in the economy of nature. To assist in this, models and pictorial illus- 
trations of magnified smaller parts and of minute structures should be 
supplied. In every instance the objects should be accompanied with 
copious legible descriptions, and in no case should a group contain a 
single specimen more than is absolutely necessary for th'e general purpose. 
Economy of space in a public museum should never be consulted at the 
expense of clearness of illustration. The national museum should 
contain skeletons in the original, or casts in plaster, of all the larger 
fossil animals — sections and scenic representations on a large scale of 
geological periods, and modeled figures of the different races of men 
and species of animals. 

The space which is at present available in the Smithsonian building 
for a general public museum consists of the following apartments : 

1. On the first floor a room 200 feet long and 50 feet wide. 2. Another 
large room, in the west wing. G5i feet long by 35 feet wide, with a 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35 

semi-circular projection at one end. 3. A connecting range of 60 feet long 
by 37 wide. 4. In the second story a single large room of 200 feet long 
and 50 feet wide. The large room on the first floor is not well adapted to 
the display of specimens, since it is occupied through its whole length 
with two rows of colossal columns. The upper room, however, as well 
as that in the west wing of the building, is entirely free from all hin- 
drance to an arrangement with a view to the best exhibition of the 
collections. I have said that the rooms above mentioned constitute the 
present available space for the accommodation of the museum. When, 
however, more space is required, the eastern wing, now in part occupied 
as a. residence by the Secretary, can be employed for the purpose. The 
floor and partitions which separate the several apartments of this por- 
tion of the building arc of a temporary character and can be readily 
removed. The lower part of this wing and its basement are now used 
for containing the exchanges and as store-rooms for duplicate specimens 
of geology and mineralogy. In accordance with the views which have 
been presented, it is intended to devote the whole of the large room in 
the second story of the main building to archaeological objects with, 
skeletons, life-size drawings, and restorations of the larger mainmals 
contemporary with i^rimitive man, especially on the continent of America. 
Second, to appropriate the wall-surface and a part of the floor-space of 
the western wing of the building to mineralogy and geology. The por- 
tions of the extensive wails of this room can be covered on the east 
side, which presents an unbroken surface above the top of the cases of 
05 feet by 10 feet, with a geological section across the continent, and the 
opposite wall with drawings of the characteristic fossils of the strata 
which are exhibited on the eastern wall. The side and mineral cases for 
containing the specimens, besides exhibiting a characteristic series of 
specimens, to represent general geology, mineralogy, and palaeontology, 
will be occupied with full sets of specimens to illustrate the geological 
formation of North America, and especially the mineralogical resources 
of this country. 

The collection of objects to illustrate anthropology now in possession 
of the Institution is almost unsurpassed, especially in those whicli 
relate to the present Indians and the more ancient inhabitants of the 
American continent. An artistic and scientific exhibition of these in 
the large room we have mentioned, could not fail to be highly inter- 
esting to the general public, the student of ethnology, and especially to 
the many intelligent foreigners who visit the capital of the United 
States. There are also in the collection of specimens in charge of the 
Institution full sets of all the rocks and minerals collected by the 
several exploring expeditions whicli have been sent out by the General 
Government, besides those which have been presented as free gifts or 
in exchange to the Institution from all parts of our continent. We can, 
therefore, with scarcely any additional material, or only with such as 
can be readily obtained, render the national museum much more 



36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

creditable to tbe Governmeut and the Institutiou tbau it bas ever yet 
been. Sncb a collection will tend to draw to itself numerous isolated 
collections, especially of autbropology, wbicb, tbough tbey may be of 
mucb interest to tbe individuals possessing tbem, are of comparatively 
little value in tbe way of advancing- a knowledge of tbe subject to 
wbicb tbey pertain, and, in case of tbe deatb of tbe owners, are gener- 
erally dissipated and frequently lost to tbe world. Tbe only way in 
wbicb tbey can become of real importance is by making tbem part of a 
general collection, carefull}^ preserved in some public institution, wbere 
tbey can be studied and compared witb otber specimens, and wbere, in 
tbe course of tbe increasing ligbt of science, tbey may be made to 
reveal trutbs beyond present anticipation. 

Serbarium. — An account of tbe transfer of tbe extensive collection 
of plants of tbe Institution to tbe care of tbe Department of Agriculture 
bas been given in previous reports, but it is tbougbt important to place 
ou record a more detailed bistory of tliis collection tban bas yet been 
published, and I tberefoi'e present tbe following account of it from notes 
furnisbed by Dr. Torrey. 

Tbe Institution baving accumulated a large number of botanical 
specimens collected in various parts of tbe Morld, most of tbem brought 
home by the Government exploring expeditions, others presented by 
authors of botanical works, travelers or special collectors, the offer 
was made by Professor John Torrey to arrange, without compensation, 
all these separate collections into one general herbarium. This offer was 
gladly accepted ou the part of tbe Institution, and all the specimens 
on band, and all that were subsequently received up to 1809, were 
transferred to him. When be commenced the task, the specimens, 
especially those collected by the Institution, were still in bundles as 
they were received, and all required to be poisoned to prevent their 
destruction by insects, wbicb had already commenced their ravages. 
The plan adopted b}^ Dr. Torrey for tbe arrangement of tbe plants was 
of the most approved character. Each species, often represented by sev- 
eral specimens, and all the marked varieties, are fastened to a half sheet 
of strong white paper and labeled. All tbe species of a genus are laid 
on one or more whole sheets of thicker tinted paper, on tbe lower left- 
band corner of Avliicb the generic name is written. The genera are 
arranged according to the natural system, following for the most part 
tbe order of De Candolle. A very large proportion of the specimens 
are authentically named by the authors who have described them ; and 
as tbey are the type-specimens or originals of several important works 
are invaluable for reference. Some of the more valuable portions 
of the Smithsonian herbarium are the following : 

1. The plants collected by the exploring exi)editiou under the command 
of Admiral Wilkes, during the years 1838 to 1842. Many countries were 
visited in this voyage round the world, and an extensive herbarium 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37 

■brought home. The botanists of the expedition were Mr. William Eich, 
Dr. Charles Pickering, and Mr. W. I. D. Brackenridge. To the last- 
named gentleman was assigned the description of the ferns, his report 
on which was printed by order of Congress in a handsome quarto volume, 
with a folio atlas, containing beautifully engraved figures of the new or 
little-known species. After a very few copies of this work were dis- 
tributed, the remaiuderof the edition was destroyed by fire while in the 
hands of the binder. The copper-plates, however, are still in the custody 
of the Library Committee of Congress, and it would cost hut little to 
print a new edition of a work so much desired by a large number of 
botanists. The flowering plants, with the exception of those collected 
in California and Oregou, were referred to Dr. Torrey ; others were 
partially studied by Mr. Rich, and then committed to Professor Asa 
Gray for a more thorough investigation. Of this portion of the collec- 
tion only one quarto volume of text, and a large folio volume of illustra- 
tions, have thus far been published by Congress. For a number of years 
the publication of the works relating to the exploring expedition was in 
charge of the Joint Library Committee of Congress and Admiral Wilkes, 
but it was impossible to procure appropriations to defray the large 
expense of the undertaking. At length all the materials were trans- 
ferred to the Smithsonian Institution, provided it would publish for 
distribution an edition of the whole. The limited income of the Smith- 
sonian fund did not permit the Institution to embark in so formidable 
an undertaking, and plates, manuscripts, and printed matter are still in 
possession of the Committee on the Library of Congress. 

Professor Gray is ready to go on with his work as soon as provision 
is made for its publication. Dr. Torrey's i-eport has been long since 
completed, and the illustrations drawn, engraved, and even printed. 
At this late day, however, the report would require revision ; indeed, so 
many new and rare species described in it have since been found and 
described by other botanists, that it may be sufficient to publish a very 
brief report, accomjianied by the plates alluded to above. The Mosses 
were described and beautifully illustrated by W. S. Sullivant, esq., of 
Columbus, Ohio. The text in quarto of his valuable report is also 
printed, but not published. He has, however, at his own expense, 
printed for private distribution a beautiful edition of It in folio. The Algce 
were committed to Professor J. W. Bailey, of West Point, and Professor 
W. H. Harvey, of Trinity College, Dublin, whose report on these plants, 
with elaborate illustrations, is printed, and has been, for years, stored 
away in sheets awaiting to be bound up and published with Dr. Torrey's 
report. The same may be said of Professor Tuckerman's account of the 
Lichens, and of the reports by Rev. M. A. Curtis, of North Carolina, and 
Rev. Dr. Berkely, of England, on the Fungi. 

2. The next most extensive and valuable portion of the herbarium is 
the collection of plants made during the North Pacific exploring expedi- 
tion, under command of Commanders Ringgold and Rodgers, from 1853 



38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

to 1856, by Mr. Charles Wright, an accomplished botanist, who accoiu-' 
l^auied the Mexican boundary commissioners in their surveys, and who 
has also made extensive botanical explorations in Cuba. There has 
been no full report of the collections made on the North Paciiic expedi- 
tion, though many of the new species have been published by Dr. Gray. 

3. The naturalists who accompanied most of the surveying parties 
which made explorations for the route of a Pacific Eailroad collected 
large numbers of plants, manj- of which Avere new to the botanist, and 
have been described in the published reports of these explorations. 

4. Collectious made in the Mexican boundary survey by Dr. C. C. 
Parry, Dr. J. M. Bigelow, Mr. C. Wright, Professor George Thurber, 
and Mr. Arthur Schott, are among the most extensive and valuable 
portions of the herbarium. A full account of them, by Drs. Gray, Engel- 
mann, and Torrey, is contained in General Emory's report. The Cac- 
tacete, and one or two smaller orders, were described by Dr. Engelmann ; 
the Compositic, Scrophulariaccic, and one or two other orders, by Dr. 
Gray ; and the ferns, with their allies, by Professor D. C. Eaton. The 
remaining Cryptogamia are not included in the report, but most of the 
new or rare ones have been published elsewhere. The grasses were to be 
described in a separate memoir by Professor Thurber. 

5. Large additions have been made to the North American portion of 
the herbarium, chiefly from within the limits of the United States and 
Territories, by contributions from the following places : New England, 
by Mr. Oakes, Dr. Gray, Professor Tuckermau, S. T. Olney, esq.. Pro- 
fessor D. C. Eaton, and others; New Jersey, by Mr. C. E. Austin, Pro- 
fessor Eaton, Dr. Torrey, and Dr. Kuieskern ; New York, Messrs. Austin, 
LeEoy, Clinton, Torrey, and many others; Pennsylvania, by Dr. Dar- 
lington, and Professor Thos. C. Porter ; North Carolina, by Pev. Dr. 
Curtis; Florida, by Dr. Chapman, (type-specimens of his flora of the 
Southern States;) Alabama, by Professor Winchell; Kentucky, Dr. Short, 
and Mr. Sullivant ; Texas and New Mexico, Messrs. Fendler, Ervend- 
berg, and others, besides what the botanists collected in the Mexican 
boundary survey ; Pocky Mountains, Dr. Parry, Captain Macomb, 
and Dr. Newberry ; Oregon, Mr. Geo. Gibbs, and others ; Nebraska, 
Dr. Hayden; Nevada, Mr. Stretch; California, Dr. H. M. Bolander, 
General Fremont, Miss Davies, Th. Bridges, Mr.E. Samuels, Dr. Torrey, 
and many others ; Colorado, Dr. Anderson, Fremont, and others. Besides 
these principal sources of United States plants, very many specimens 
have been received from other j)laces and persons, which we have not 
space to enumerate. From British America, especially the sub-arctic 
portions, Dr. Kennicott, and officers of the Hudson's Bay Company have 
furnished specimens. Of foreign plants, besides those collected in the two 
United States exploring expeditious already noticed, the herbarium con- 
tains valuable and large contributions from Japan, Mantchuria, China, 
etc., from Professors lieigel and Maximovitch, of the Imperial Academy 
of Science of St. Petersburg, and the Imperial Botanic Garden : A 



KEPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 39 

large collection of Sandwich Island plants, (all type-specimens,) made by 
Mr. Horace Mann, lately deceased : A collection of plants from Mirador, 
]\Iexico, by Dr. Sartorius: Many specimens, with fleshy fruits in alco- 
hol, collected on the Panama llailroad, by the late Dr. Sutton Ilayes ; 
others from the same region by.Fendler, in 1850 : Plants from Jamaica, 
especially ferns from Mr. Wilson ; from Cuba, collected by Mr. Chas, 
Wright; Venezuela, many beautifully dried ferns by Feudler; from 
Texas and Northern Mexico, by Berlandier ; Lower California, by Mr. 
Xantus; Brazil and Paraguay, by unknown collector. From Europe, 
there is an extensive collection of Hungarian i^lants from Mr. Arthur 
Schott, and of Illyrian plants from Professor Thomasini, besides many 
smaller collections from various parts of the continent. Dr. Torrey has 
contributed a large number of specimens from his own herbarium. 

As to the disposition made of the duplicates of the collections, they 
have been sent in the name of the Smithsonian Institution to learned 
societies, botanic gardens, and individuals, whenever they could be dis- 
posed of for the advance of science. Full sets of duplicates Avere pre- 
sented to the Poyal Garden at Kew, near London, the botanic gardens 
of Paris and St. Petersburg, besides smaller portions to individuals, 
lyceums of natural history, and colleges. 

This Collection of plants has been transferred to the Agricultural De- 
partment, on the conditions set forth in the following documents, of 
which the originals are in the archives of the Institution and of the 
Agricultural Department : 

Washinoton, D. C, January 1, 1868. 

In order to the harmonious co-operation of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion and the Department of Agriculture in their respective provinces of 
advancing science, they enter into the following agreement relative to 
the disposition of specimens : 

First. All the botanical specimens in possession of the Smithsonian 
Institution, about twenty thousand, and all that may hereafter be col- 
lected by it, shall be transferred to the Agricultural Department on the 
following terms : 

1. That a competent botanist, approved by the Institution, shall be 
appointed to have charge of the collection. 

2. That the collection shall, at all times, be accessible to the public 
for educational purposes, and to the Institution for scientific investiga- 
tion, or for supplying any information in regard to plants that its cor- 
respondents may ask for. 

3. That due credit be given to the Institution in the report of the 
Agricultural Department for the original deposit, and for such addi- 
tions as may be made to it, from time to time, by the Institution. 

Second. That the Agricultural Department shall- transfer to the Smith- 
sonian Institution any specimens it may now have, or iiinj hereafter ob- 
tain, that are not necessary to illustrate agricultural economy ; such as 



40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

those of ethnology and of various branches of natural history. Similar 
credit to be given in this case as is required in the former. 

Horace Capron, 
Commissioner of ArjriciUture. 
Joseph Henry, 
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 

The following is an account of the more important additions which 
have been made to the collection in the Agricultural Department by the 
Institution since the transfer of the general herbarium in 1808 : 

1. A set of European plants, numbering about four hundred species, 
presented by Professor Paul Eeintz, of Germany, in exchange, at h,is 
request, for specimens of American plants. 

2. A second very extensive collection of plants from the Imperial 
Academy of St. Petersburg, in return for donations from the Institution. 
This present, like all of those we have received from the Imperial Academy, 
is of a most valuable character. It consists of eleven hundred species 
from Russia, Siberia, Western Europe, and Japan. 

3. Another large collection is from the widow of the late ]\[r. James 
McMinn, Williamsport, Pennsylvania, principally of plants from the 
mountainous regions of Pennsylvania, but also comprising specimens 
from other parts of this country and different localities in Europe. Mr. 
McMinn was a civil engineer, and in the practice of his profession in 
surveying lines for railways and canals became interested in the variety 
of plants which were presented to his notice, and as a means of recre- 
ation, as well as of intellectual improvement, commenced the study of 
botany. It would appear from the examination of his herbarium, that he 
had entered into extensive correspondence with some of the principal 
botanists of this country and Europe, and had enriched his collection 
by exchanges. His herbarium contained about live thousand species, 
among v>^hich is aninteresting series of plants from the Alps. The special 
thanks of the Institution are due to Mrs. McMinn for the judicious dis- 
position she has made of the results of the labors of her lamented hus- 
band, which we trust will be preserved among the collections of the 
Government, as a ])ermanent memorial of his devotion to science and 
of her enlightened liberality. 

Besules the foregoing there have been added several hundred bottles 
of samples of agricultural materials and products, numerous specimens 
of seeds, roots, fibers, fungi, sections of wood, &c. 

Work done in connection with the collections. — Professor Baird, during 
the past year, in addition to his services in regard to the exchanges, 
natural history, and assistance in correspondence, has completed the 
systematic description of the land birds of the Pacific States, forming 
the first volume of ornithology published, in connection with its geo- 
logical survey, by the State of California. The materials for this work 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41 

were from the manuscript notes of Dr. J. G. Cooper, of San Francisco, 
while the descriptions are principally from specimens in the Smithsonian 
collections. This volume, in regard to its typography, illustrations, and 
the character of its contents, does honor to the liberality of the State at 
whose expense it was published, as well as to the science of the country. 
Professor Baird has also continued his labors with Dr. Brewer, of Bos- 
ton, on a work relative to the general ornithology of North America ; in 
this he has been assisted by Mr. Eobert Eidgeway, the zoologist 
of the exploration of the fortieth parallel under Clarence King. To the 
latter, free access has also been given, in the preparation of his report 
on the birds of Mr. King's survey, to all the ornithological specimens in 
the Smithsonian collections. 

Mr. Meek, the pala;ontologist, has made a preliminary report on the 
fossils collected by Dr. Hayden in his survey of Wyoming and contig- 
uous Territories, and prepared lists of the same, with descriptions of 
the new species. He has described and prepared drawings of a collec- 
tion of cretaceous fossils, sent by Professor IMudge to the Institution, 
from Kansas. He has made, besides several i)reliminary examinations, 
a final report on the fossils collected by Mr. King in the survey of the 
fortieth parallel, with full descriptions and illustrations of all the new 
species. He has also investigated the invertebrate fossils collected by 
the geological survey of Ohio, and prepared descriptions of the new 
species for publication ; made a preliminary report, with descrip- 
tions of some new species, on a collection of carboniferous fossils sent 
by Professor Stevenson from West Virginia ; continued his work.on the 
illustrations of the monograph of the palaeontology of the Upper 
Missouri. He has also identihed collections of fossils, received from 
time to time at the Smithsonian Institution from collectors in various 
parts of the country. 

Mr. Dall has been eng;aged in collating the extensive collection of 
manuscript notes of the Hudson's Bay and other Arctic American col- 
laborators '.vith whom the institution has been in correspondence for 
more than lifteen years. The part of these notes which he has finished 
relates to ornithology, and comprises many thousand items descriptive 
of the habits, distribution, and numbers of the birds of the regions 
above referred to. These will be used by Professor Baird and Dr. Brewer 
in their work on the birds of North America. The manuscripts also con- 
tain notes relative to the mammals and other animals, as well as to the 
ethnology of the same regions. When all these are collated and pub- 
lished they will form an interesting contribution to existing knowledge of 
the natural productions and ethnology of the North American continent. 

Mr. Dall has also devoted considerable time to original investigations 
relative to the minute anatomy of the mollusca from specimens in the 
collections of the Institution. His i^rincipal labor, however, has been in 
the rearrangement of the very large series of shells from the west coast 
of America and of the North Pacific, including many types of the new 



42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

species of Gould, Carpenter, Cooper, Stearns, Pease, H. and A. Adams, 
&c. These have mostly i^assed through the hands of Dr. P. P. Car- 
penter, of Montreal, but still required to be placed^ in suitable trays, 
and provided with new labels and specially arranged for cabinet pur- 
poses. He has also had charge throughout most of the year of the 
record of additions to the museum, and the labeling of collections, espe- 
cially those of ethnology and osteology. 

Meteorology. — The system of meteorology of the Institution has been 
kept up as usual during the past year. The number of observers report- 
ing to the Institution during this period is 515, and to the Medical 
Department of the United States Army, to the records of which we have 
free access, 140. The value of these observations increases with the 
number of observers and the time for which the several series are con- 
tinued. But observations, however long-continued and extensive, are 
comparatively of little value unless they are reduced and discussed ; and 
these operations can only be performed at the expense of great labor, 
since thousands of figures have to be tabulated and subjected to various 
arithmetical processes in order to deduce the general results which con- 
stitute approximate scientific principles. As we have stated in previous 
reports, the discussion of the rain and temperature has been for some 
years in charge of Mr. Charles A. Schott. The results in regard to the 
rain have been printed, and will form a part of the Smithsonian Con- 
tributions for the year 1871. A general account of these results was 
given in the last report, but in this it may be further stated that the 
principal deductions are made from an original series of tables giving the 
monthly rain-fall from the earliest periods from all sources in the United 
States and atljacent countries down to 18G7. From these general tables 
a series of consolidated tables of means for seasons and years, for the 
whole time, is deduced. It was thought advisable, on account of the 
great expense, to publish for the present the consolidated tables, and 
to retain the others for reference or to answer special inquiries in 
regard to the rain-fall of particular stations. The former have been kept 
up to date, all the new materials having been incorporated ; and to extend 
the system a large number of rain-gauges have been distributed to dif- 
ferent parts of the country, and especially to the western States. 

The temperature records are still under investigation by Mr. Schott. 
The work was in part temporarily suspended during his absence in 
Europe as a member of the expedition for observing the total eclipse of 
last December. The following is a statement of the present condition 
of the dise-ussiou. 

The collection of material has for the most part been completed down 
to the present time, and tables of hourly, bi-hourly, and semi-hourly 
observations of temperature have been prepared. From these have 
been deduced tables to be used for the correction of daily variations of 
temperature. The daily fluctuation of the atmospheric temperature 



EEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43 

has been discussed, and tables giving the times of sunrise and sunset 
for stations between hititudes 23° and 60°, to be used for corrections of 
daily \ai-iatiou, have been computed. The annual fluctuations of tem- 
perature have been in part discussed, and the tables of maxima and 
minima are in an advanced state toward completion. 

All the observations relative to the winds, made under the direction 
of the Institution, and under the Medical Department of the Army, and 
all those which have been collected from other sources, have been 
I)laced in charge of Professor J. H. Cofiin, of Lafayette College, for 
reduction and discussion. It was first intended to limit the investiga- 
tion to the winds of North America, but it has since been considered 
advisable to incorporate the whole in a memoir on the general direction 
of the winds of the globe. To defray the cost of the extra labor, other 
than that of Professor Cofliinjin this investigation, an appropriation has 
been made from the income of the Institution. During the year, Pro- 
fessor Coffin has been i^ressing on this work, with a number of assistants, 
as rapidly as the means at his command and his time would allow. 

The Smithsonian meteorological system was commenced in 1849, and 
has continued in operation until the present time. Its efforts have been 
directed in the line of supplementing and harmonizing other systems, 
of a more limited character, with that of the more general one of the 
Army of the United States, and iu some measure with the system estab- 
lished in Canada. It has done good service to the cause of meteorology, 
1, in inaugurating the system which has been in operation upward of 
twenty years; 2, in the introduction of improved instruments after 
discussion and experiments ; 3, in i^reparing and publishing at its ex- 
pense an extensive series of meteorological tables ; 4, iu reducing and 
discussing the meteorological material which could be obtained from 
all the records from the first settlement of the country till within a few 
years ; 5, in being the first to show the practicability of telegraphic 
weather signals ; G, in i^ublishiug records and discussions made at its 
own expense, of the Arctic expeditions of Kane, Hayes, and McClin- 
tock ; 7, iu discussing and publishing a number of series of special 
records embracing periods of from twenty to fifty years iu diflerent sec- 
tions of the United States, of great interest in determining secular 
changes of the climate; 8, in the publication of a series of memoirs on 
various meteorological phenomena, embracing observations and discus- 
sions of storms, tornadoes, meteors, auroras, &c. ; 9, in a diffusion of a 
knowledge of meteorology through its extensive unpublished corre- 
spondence and its printed circulars. It has done all in this line which 
its limited means would permit, and has urged upon Congress the estab- 
lishment, with adequate appropriation of funds, of a meteorological 
department under one comprehensive plan, in which the records should 
be sent to a central depot for rodiictiou, discussion, and final publica- 
tion. 

An important step has been made toward this desirable object iu the 



44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

establishment, during the last year, by Congress, of a system of practical 
■weather reports under the direction of the War Department, with ample 
means for the purchase standard instruments, the pay of assistants, and 
telegraphic dispatches. The results of this system in the way of pre- 
diction have been eminently successful, and have everyAvhere met with 
popular favor. The organization and administration of the system by 
General Myer, the director, has evinced great executive ability, and 
bis wisdom has been shown in selecting Professor Abbe as his scientific 
assistant. It should be recollected, however, that the principles em- 
I)loyedin foretelling the weather are practical results previously arrived 
at by the investigations of men of abstract science founded on simulta- 
neous records without the aid of telegraphic communication. For the 
discovery of the general laws of meteorological phenomena, simultaneous 
observations should be made over large portions of the earth, and the 
records of these collected at stated periods, say at the end of every 
month, at some central office, and submitted first to preliminary reduc- 
tion, and finally to the critical study of men like Espy, Eedfield, and 
others, fitted by education, experience, and mental peculiarities to 
deduce from them the required generalizations. I would therefore sug- 
gest that a still larger appropriation be made by Congress to the War 
Department for establishing, besides the reports for weather signals, a 
series of intermediate stations, also furnished with compared instru- 
ments, to record daily observations to be transmitted to Washington 
weekly or monthly, and also that i^rovision be made for the support of 
a number of competent persons 'to carry on the reductions and prepare 
the results for publication. 

It has been the policy of this Institution from the first to do nothing 
which can be done as well or better by other means, and in accordance 
with this policy the Institution would willingly relinquish the field of 
meteorology, which it has so long endeavored, though imperfectly, to 
cultivate, turning over to the Signal Ofi&ce all the material which it has 
accumulated up to a given epoch. We would advise also a similar 
course to be pursued on the part of the Medical Department of the 
Army. All the deductions from the combined materials which have 
been collected up to the present time should be obtained and published, 
although since, they may be in many respects defective, they contain 
the essential element of long periods of meteorological changes and 
a new era commence with more precise instruments and improved 
methods of observation. From such a system, however perfect it may 
be, immediate results are not to be expected. New and important de- 
ductions can scarcely be obtained until after a continuance of the sys- 
tem for several years, as, for example, the accurate determination of 
the periodicity which probably exists in regard to the droughts of the 
western coast. 



REPOKT OF THE SECRETAEY. 45 

Before closing this report it is proper that I should refer to a resolu- 
tion adopted by your honorable board at its last session, granting me 
leave of absence to visit Europ^ to confer with savaus and societies 
relative to the Institution, and making provision for the payment of my 
expenses. The presentation of this proposition was entirely without 
my knowledge, but I need scarcely say that its unanimons adoption was 
highly gratifying to my feelings, and that I availed myself of the privi- 
lege it offered with a grateful appreciation of the kindness intended. 

I sailed from New York on the 1st of June, returning, after au absence 
of four and a half months, much improved in health and with impres- 
sions, as to science and education in the Old World, which may be of 
value in directing the affairs of the Institution. Although limited as to 
time, and my i^laus interfered with somewhat by the war, I visited 
England, Ireland, Scotland, Belgium, jiarts of Germany and France. 
But deferring, for the present, an account of my travels and the observa- 
tions connected with them, I will merely state that, as your representa- 
tive, I was everywhere kindly received, and highly gratified with the 
commendations bestowed on the character and operations of the 
Institution intrusted to your care. 

Kespectfully submitted. 

JOSEPH HENEY. 

January, 1871. 



APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Table shoiving the entries in the recordrhooks of the Smithsonian Museum 

in 1869 and 1870. 



Class. 



Skeletons and skulls 

Mammals 

Birds 

Reptiles 

Fishes 

Eggs of birds 

Crustaceans 

Mollusks 

Radiates 

Annelids 

Fossils 

Minerals. 

Ethnological specimens. 
Plants 



Total 




1870. 



11,512 

9, 773 

61, 150 

7, 535 
7,897 

15, 671 
1,287 

22, 345 

2,730 

100 

7, 380 

7, 154 

10, 000 
175 



164, 709 



. Total entries during the year 6, 057 

Of the above eiimneration, 4,154 specimens of the birds and 500 of the 
mammals are mounted and on exhibition in the hall. 



Approximate table of distribution of duplicate specimens to the end of 1870. 



Class. 


Distribution to the 
end of 1869. 


Distribution in 
1870. 


Total. 




Species. 


Specimens. 


Species. 


Specimens. 


Species. 


Specimens. 


Skeletons and skulls. 
Mammals 


1.54 

885 

12, 951 

1,701 

2,434 

4,381 

78, 391 

551 

1,023 

1,838 

13, 658 
3, 958 

2,880 

1,107 

1, .5.32 

26 


593 

1,706 

18. 996 

2, 830 

5,210 

11,711 

177, 927 

727 

2,526 

5,152 

19,218 
9,984 

7,774 

1,154 

2,846 

566 


60 

31 

2,200 

40 

1 

2,074 

3,087 

32 

55 


78 

76 

3, 564 

40 

1 

4,683 

5, 230 

51 

124 


214 

916 

34, 951 

1,741 

2,435 

6,455 

81,178 

583 

1,078 

1,838 

15, 503 
3, 958 
3,630 

1,143 
1, 632 

28 


671 

1,782 


Birds 


22, 530 


Reptiles 


2,870 


Fishes 

Eggs of birds 

Shells 

Radiates 

Crustaceans 

Marine invertebrates 


5,211 

16, 394 

183, 157 

778 

2,650 

5, 152 


Plants and packages 
of seeds 


1,845 


1,845 


21, 063 


Fossils 


9,984 


Miner.'ils and rocks.. 
Ethnological speci- 
mens 


750 

36 

100 

2 


800 

36 
100 

2 


8,574 
1,190 


Insects 


2,946 


Diatomaceous earths 


568 


Total 


127, 470 


268, 920 


10, 313 


16, 630 


127, 783 


285, 520 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 47 

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION IN 1870. 

Adams, F. C. — Limestone rock, Vir<iinia. 

Agricultural Department United States, Hon. Horace Capron, Commis- 
sioner. — Skin of monkey and parrot, South America ; reptiles in alcohol, 
from Colorado, California, and the East Indies ; dry fish and Crustacea 
from Cbina and New York Harbor. (See elsewhere under other entries.) 

Ailen, E. C. — Skins oi Leucosticte tephroeotis, Eocky Mountains. 

Albiupierquc, Don Frederico. — Barrel of fish in alcohol, from Brazilian 
rivers. 

Alden, Dr. C. H., United States Army, through the Army Medical Mu- 
seum. — Petrified wood, fossils and minerals, from Colorado Territory. 

Anderson, General, through J. M. Thompson. — Fresh heads, hoofs and 
skins of the American bison, Kansas. 

Army Medical Museum, United States; Dr. George A. Otis, United 
States Army, in charge. — Stone implements from Colorado Territory; 
fossil teeth of mastodon, &c., Alabama. (See also under the names of 
the medical officers United States Army.) 

Baird, Professor S. F. — Carvings of northeastern Eskimo ; arrow- 
heads, relics from ancient sbell-heaps on the coast of Massachusetts ; 
fish and turtles in alcohol, fin of thresher shark, jaws and skeletons 
of fish, from Wood's Hole, Massachusetts. 

Bannister, H. M. — Arrow-heads, &c., Illinois. 
. Baurmeister, Rev. W. — Minerals, Indiana. 

Balbach, A. — Fcetal mice in alcohol. New Jersey. 

Baldwin, Charles S. — Arcliieological specimens, Tennessee. 

Barher, T. S. — Shell adze and arrow-heads, Florida, 

Bentley, Dr. E., Assistant Surgeon United States Army, through Army 
Medical Museum. — Stone implements, San Francisco Bay, California. 

Berendt, Dr. — Turtles, fossil fish and plants, from Mexico. 

Berthoud, Captain E. L. — Fiint-flakes and scrapers, Colorado Territory. 

Bishop, N. H. — Cuban mocking-birds in alcohol. 

Blackmore, William. — Model of Stonehenge and flint implements. 
Great Britain. 

Boardman, George A. — Bird skins, nests, and eggs, from Maine and 
Florida ; models of great auk egg, skulls of buffalo and gnu, South 
Africa. 

Bolander, Dr. H. — Califoruian seeds. 

Boucard, A. — Bird skins from Mexico. 

Boicman, J. B. — Collection of birds, and one mammal, from Aus- 
tralia. 

Brevoort, J. Carson. — Bones of the dodo, from Mauritius. 

Brown, Solomon G. — Arrow-heads, District of Columbia. 

Bryan, 0. K — Pottery, stone implements, arrow-heads, &c., Virginia. 

Bryant, Captain Charles. — Skins of the walrus and seal, from Alaska. 



48 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Burn, J. P. — Specimens of rock from the Bospliorns. 

Burr, Fearing — Specimens from Massachusetts shell-heaps. 

Burrough, J. — Nest and skin of mourning warbler, New York. 

Cameron, John. — Mask from an E<2:yptian sarcophagus. 

Central Park Commissioners, New Yorlc. — Cast of antique statue, Costa 
Eica. 

Chase, Thomas. — Stone mortar and pestle, Virginia. 

Coleman, N. — Insects from Ohio. 

Collins, II. — Specimens from shell-heaps, Louisiana. 

Condon, Rev. Thomas. — Fossils from Columbia River. 

Cooper, Theodore. — Shells from the Galapagos Islands. 

Cones, Dr. Elliott, United States Army. — Bird-skins from North 
Carolina. 

Curtis, Dr. Jo.nah. — Indian implements, pottery, &c., from Tennessee 
and Georgia. 

IJall, Kei\ C. H. A. — Skull and horns of the buffalo of southern India. 

DaU, W. II. — Specimens of mollusca and shells from various localities. 

Damon, It. — Si)ecimens of brachiopods from the European seas. 

Dant, Thomas E. — Abnormal eggs of domestic fowl. 

Davis, Henry. — Fossils from Iowa. 

Day, Robert, jr. — Stone implements from Ireland. 

Domeylco, Professor, University of Chili. — Chilian minerals. 

Dow, Captain J. M. — Skulls and bones of tapirs from Central America; 
young tapir in alcohol, and other alcoholic specimens, from Panama. 

Durhee, H. B. — Human remains and fossils from Wyoming Territory ; 
birds, eggs, and nests, with some osteological specimens, from the same 
locality. 

Evans, Ahncr G., by the Hon. W. Townsend. — Stone imj)lements from 
Pennsylvania. 

Find; Hugo. — Stone antiquities from Mexico. 

Fitzgerald, Dr. J. A., United States Army, (by Dr. J. S. Billings, 
United States Army.) — Fossil teeth from Indian Territory. 

Fliigcl, Dr. Felix. — Alcoholic specimens, Europe. 

Foreman, Dr. E. — Fresh-water shells. District of Columbia. 

Gardner, G. T. — Specimens from Maine shell heaps. 

Gibbs, Mr. — Box seeds, nuts, &c., Kansas. 

Girard, Dr. Basil, United States Army, (through Army Medical 
Museum.) — Fossils from Wyoming Teri-itory. 

Gleason, TV. T. — Glaciated rock, Connecticut. 

Glover, Lieutenant Russell, United States Revenue Marine. — Specimens 
of Acmoi a testudinalis and Boltenia clavata from the coast of Maiue. 

Graves, E. D. — Lignite, Pennsylvania. 

Graves, W. W. — Infusorial earth from Maine. 

Guest, Follis, (through Hon. W. Townsend.) — Stone imj)lements, Penn- 
sylvania. 

Hachenburg, Dr. — Scale of sturgeon. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 49 

Holl, George E. — Specimens of grindin.a: and building stone, Oliio. 

HalU John. — Indian crania and bones, San Francisco. 

Haney, Jesse H. — Indian silver ornament, Arkansas. 

Hansen., Walter. — Stone awl, Missouri. Apache basket from Kew 
Mexico. 

JIartman, Br. — Collection of insects, Pennsylvania. 

HasJcins, ]\[r. — Horned toad, California. 

Hayden, Dr. F. Y. — Beaver cuttings from the Rocky Mountains. (See 
also United* States Geological Survey of Territory. 

Heaton., L. D., (througli Agricultural Department.) — Eeptile from 
Texas. 

Henriques, Captain United States Revenue Marine. — Ethnological and 
botanical collections from Alaska. 

Himes, Professor C. F. — Bones from the Carlisle bone-cave, Penn- 
sylvania. 

Hincldey, J. R. — Fish and fishbones, Massachusetts coast. 

Hoover^ H. — Fossils and arrow-heads, Pennsylvania. 

Hoxle, Walter. — Eggs of Cathartes atratus, South Carolina. 

E.oy.1 Dr. P. R. — Fish, &c., from deep dredgings off Eacine, Wisconsin, 

Hidchinson, Kohl & Co. — Seal-skins, walrus skull and volcanic sand, 
Alaska. 

Jackson, Hrdiday, (through Hon. W. Townsend.) — Stone implements, 
Pennsylvania. 

Jackson., R. 8. — Osteological and oological specimens from Louisiana. 

Johnson, Eugene. — Indian redstone pii)e. 

Johnson, Lieutenant. — Specimen of an owl, District of Columbia. 

Jones, Rev. C. M. — Nests of Ammodromus maritimus and candacutus, 
Connecticut. 

Jones, Jno. P. — Cranium of mound builder, Missouri. 

Jones, Strachan, Hudson Bay Company. — Collection of birds and egg^^ 
Little Slave Lake, Hudson Bay territory. 

Keenan, T. J. R. — Unionidtie, specimens of ethnology and natural history 
from Mississippi. Two specimens of continental currency. 

Kellogg, Dr. A. — Plants from California. 

King, Clarence. — Stone pestle, California. Minerals and rocks from 
Nevada. 

Knapp, Dr. James. — Collection of fossils, Kentucky. 

Knight, Jeremiah. — Plate of crystallized quartz from Orange County, 
New York. 

Kohler, Mr. — Seventy pound mass of silicate of zinc, Union Lead 
Works, Virginia. 

Lancaster, Dr. — Mineral residue from water of Alum Springs, Virginia. 

Lartct, Professor E. — Bone breccia from the bone-caves of Dordogne, 
France. 

Ijatham, General G. R. — Slcin of kangaroo, Australia. 

Latimer, George. — Collection of birds, Porto Rico. 

4s 



50 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Laming, Dr. F. — Stoue implements, ludiana. 

Leivis, Dr. James — Fresh- water shells, Mohawk River, New York. 
Liinpert, W. B. — Nests and eggs, Ohio. 

Lincecmn, Dr. G. — Alcoholic mammals and reptiles, Mexico. 

Linden, Charles. — Three bird-skins, New York. 

Loci-hart, James, Hudson Bay Company. — Birds and eggs, Fort Yukon, 
Alaska. 

Loiuj, Oicen, M., United States Consul. — Fish from Panama. 

Luddiwjton, CoJonel United States Army. — Carvings from the Old Pecos 
Church, New Mexico. 

Lupton, Professor JSf. T. — Indian stone relics. Warrior River, Alabama. 

McElderry, Dr. H., United States Army, (through the Army Medical 
Museum.) — Fossils from Texas. 

Mac/arlane, B., Hudson Bay Company. — Birds and eggs from the 
Anderson River, Hudson Bay territory, being the collections for 1866. 

Mellvaine, J. JL.— Indian pottery from Pennsylvania. 

Mcllvaine, J. H. — Birds from Central America. 

McLain, B. T., United States Agricultural Department. — Indian stoue 
implements from Maryland. 

Madras, Government Museum. — Skeleton of hyena, and collection of 
East Indian birds. 

March, William, {by Agricultural Department.) — Stone knives, Ohio. 

Martin H. — Eggs of Ecto pistes migrator la, from Michigan. 

Mathews, Dr. ^Y., United States Army. — Bull-boat used by Indians of 
the Indian Territory, wooden mortar, matting, head of antelope with 
deformed horns ; ethnological specimens ; same locality. 

Mechling, Mrs. F, E. D., (through Agricultural Department.) — Reptiles 
from Belize. 

Merritt, E. S. — Indian arrow-heads. Long Island. 

Merritt, J. C. — Arrow-heads from Long Island. 

Meulen, Lieutenant E. de, United States Army. — Plants from Cook's 
Inlet, Alaska. 

Miller, Dr. George, United States Army . — Bird's eggs, Colorado Territory. 

Milne, Edwards, Professor Alphonse. — Casts of ^Epyornis bones and 
fossil birds of France. 

Minor, Dr. T. T., United States Army. — Indian crania from Vancouver's 
Island. 

Moore, Carlton B. — Fish and corals from the coast of Virginia. 

Moore, James H. — Sulphate of strontia, Virginia. 

Moore, K B. — Mounted tree-duck, Louisiana. 

NantucJcet Athenmum. — Skull of Iciller whale. 

New Albany Society of Natural History. — Cast of a copper spear-head 
from the mounds, Indiana. 

Newman, Jos., (by Agricultural Department.) — Stone implements from 
South Carolina. 

New Zealand Colonial Musc7im. — Bones of Dinornis, and Apteryx, shells, 
bird-skins, and ethnological specimens from New Zealand. 



ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 51 

Nicl'crson, George Y. — Antique soapstone iiikstand, Cape Cod. 

Northwestern University. — Fossils and skins of gar pike from Illinois. 

Orton, Professor James. — Tertiary fossils from tlie Amazon. 

Palmer ^Dr. E., (partly through the Agricultural Department.) — Large 
aud varied collections of specimens in various departments of zoology, 
botany, etlinology, and archaeology from Arizona, Utah, and New Mex- 
ico. 

Passmore Lewis, (by the Hon. W. Townsend.) — Stone implements, 
Pennsylvania. 

Pease, Horatio N. — Tooth of fossil cetacean, Gay Head, Massachu- 
setts. 

Pirn, Geo. E., (by Hon. W. Townsend.) — Stone implements, Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Piatt, L. W. — Indian clothing and ornaments, Nebraska. 

Ponrtales, L. F. de. — Marine invertebrates from Florida. 

Price, J. D. — Crj'stallized calcite, Virginia. 

Quatrefagcs, Professor. — Casts of osteolopcal and other specimens 
from the caves of Cromagnon, France. 

Ba7iJcm, Mr. — Indian crania, Massachusetts coast. 

Ransom, Governor, (through Mr. Tkos. Bland.) — Land shells from 
Barbadoes. 

Feed, Byron. — Ortyx Virginianus, Nebraska. 

Ricliseclier, L. E. — Birds' eggs, Pennsylvania. 

Ridgeicay, Robert. — Birds from Illinois. 

Ring, Lieut. F. M., United States Army. — Collections of birds, osteo- 
logical specimens, ethnology, archajology, &c., from Alaska. 

Sadio, n. — Saturnia rnhescens from Chili. 

St. Petershurg Imperial Botanic Garden. — Russian, Siberian, Japanese, 
and other plants. 

Salrin, 0. — Birds from the Falkland Islands. 

Scammon, Gapt. G. M., U. S. Revenue Marine. — Baleen of Pacific sul- 
phurbottom whale. 

Schott, Dr. A, — Crystals of rock-salt, Texas. 

Sclatcr, Dr. P. L. — Birds from Peruvian Andes and Buenos Ayres. 

Sessions, Luther. — Birds' eggs, Connecticut. 

Sharpless, P. P., (through Hon. W. Townsend.) — Stone imi^lenients 
from Pennsylvania. 

Sherwood, Andrew. — Devonian fish remains from Pennsylvania. 

Sihheston, J., Hudson Bay Company. — Birds and eggs, I'ort Yukon, 
Alaska. 

Spinner, General F. E. — Fresh specimen of the copperhead snake, Dis- 
trict of Columbia. 

Stearns, R. E. C. — Pottery vase and beads from Chiriqui, Central 
America. 

Stelle, J. P. — Archaiological and ethnological specimens from Tennes- 
see mounds. 

Sternberg, C. H. and Dr. G. M. — Fossil plants from Kansas. 



52 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 

Stevenson, J. — Moniited Ncotoma, Wyomino- Territory. 

Stevenson, J. J. — Stone iinplemeuts, West Virginia. 

Stiles, Ron. Jno. i>., Al. C. — Specimen of iridescent hematite. 

Streng, L. H. — Miscellaneous shells. 

Stuart, Mrs. B. L. — Stone pipe, Virginia. 

Suuiichrast, Br. Francis — Miscellaneous zoological collections, Isthmus 
of Teliuan tepee. 

Thomas, Ezra, (through Hon. W. Towusend.) — Stone implements, 
Pennsylvania. 

Thompson, B. 0. — Fossils and birds' skins from Missouri. 

Thotnson, J. H. — Eggs of African ostrich, and of Casuarius Bennettii 
or " mooruk " from New Britain, and rocks containing garnets from 
New Bedford. 

Tolman, J. ^Y. — Birds' eggs, Illinois. 

Toicnsend, Hon. ^y. — Stonei mplements from Pennsylvania. (See also 
under other entries.) 

Turner, G. — Flint impleinents, Illinois. 

United States Geological Survey of the Territories. — Dr. F. V. Hayden 
in charge. Large miscellaneous zoological and i^aleontological collec- 
tions from the Rocky Mountains. 

Unknown. — Stone ax, Missouri ? Stone implements and fossil corals, 
Canada? Box fossils, Missouri? Skeleton Pottawattomie Indian ? 

Viclcary, Br. B. S., Assistant Surgeon, United States Army. — Arrow- 
heads and pottery, New Mexico. 

Vienna, Imperial Zoological Museum of. — Birds and skin and skeleton 
of the aurochs, from Austria. 

Verrill, Professor A. E. — Miscellaneous radiates. 

Wachsmuth, Chas. — Fossil crinoids, Iowa. 

Walker, Br. Bohert L., (through Agricultural Department.) — Arrow- 
heads from Virginia. 

^Yeile, Chas., United States Consul. — Reptiles from Guayaquil. 

Weinland, Br. B. F. — Land-shells from the Bahama and West India 
Islands. 

Wiggins, WiUlam. — Crystallized cinnabar in quartz, California. 

Williams, General A. B., (through Captain J. M. Dow.) — Pottery- from 
San Salvador, Central America. 

WHliams, Br. H. C. — Arrow-heads, Virginia, and stone implements 
from the same locality. 

Willmuth, J. A. H. — Mounted agouti, {Basyprocta,) South America, 
through Agricultural Department. 

Wilson, Jas. — Stone implements (through the Hon. W. Townsend) 
from Pennsylvania. 

Wilso7i, Br. S. W. — Five amphiumas from Georgia. 

Witter, Bavid K. — Fossils and seeds, Iowa. 

Yager, W. E. — Nest of Tyrannus Carolinensis, New York. 

Yates, Br. L. S. — Indian crania from mounds and stone mortar with 
pestle from California. 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC' EXCHANGES. 



Table showing the statistics of the Smithsonian exchanges in 1870. 


Agent and country. 


O CJ 

to 

. M 

a 


d 

^§ 

<U eg 

a 


to 

'/\ 

o 
,o 

u 
o 

a 




to 
X 

o c 

+^ 2 


Dr. Felix Flugel, Lcqjsic : 

Eussia 


84 

43(j 

51 

6 


92 

486 

60 

6 








Germany 






Switzerland . . . : 


1 




Gi'eece 


i._ . i 








' 


Total 


577 


644 


51 


539 


13 291 






Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, 
Stoclcholm : 

General 


4 
17 


4 
41 


1 




Sweden 














Total 


21 


45 


3 


30 


729 






Royal IJNmERSiTY of Norway, Cliristiania : 
Nor waj^ 


11 


17 


2 


20 


48(3 






Royal Danish Society of Sciences, Copen- 
liayen : 

Denmark 


23 
1 


28 
1 






Iceland 


t 








Total 


24 


29 


3 


30 


729 






Frederick Muller, Amsterdam : 

Holland 


57 
83 


63 
36 


i 




Belgium 












Total 


90 


98 


6 


60 


1,458 


Gustave Bossange, Paris : 

France 


165 
9 

2 
2 


176 

11 

6 

2 


i 




Spain 






Portugal 


I 
















Total 


1 
178 


195 


13 


123 


4 032 






R. ISTiTUTO Lome, di Science e Lettere, 
Milan : 

Italy 


136 


144 


8 


80 


1 944 






William Wesley, London : 

Great Britain and Ireland 


268 
3 


494 
3 






Cape Town, Africa 












Total . 


271 


314 


20 


195 


5,879 




Rest of the world 


119 


136 


15 


112 


2,835 




Grand total 


l,4'i5 j 


1, 805 


121 


1,189 1 


31,383 



54 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 



Packages received hy the Smithsonian Institution from i)arties in America, 
for foHign distribution, in 1870. 



Address. 



ALBANY, NEW YORK. 



Albany lustitiite 

Dudley Observatory 

New York State Library 

New York State A.tiricnltural Society 
New York State Houieopathic Soci- 
ety - 

New York State Medical Society 

Dr. Paiue 



ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN. 

University of Michigan 

BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

AtDerican ^Ycadeniy of Arts and Sci- 
ences 

Board of State Charities 

• Boston Society of Natural History 

Bureau of Statistics of Labor 

Public Library 

Dr. T.M. Brewer 

Dr. B. A. Gould 

Dr. Howe, (Perkins Institute for 
Blind) 



CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Cambridge Observatory 

American Association for Advance- 
ment of Science 

Plarvard College 

Museum of Comparative Zoology.. 
Professor Asa Gray 



CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA. 

Dr. F. P. Porcber 

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. 



Academy of Sciences... 
Chicago Medical Times 



CINCINNATI, OHIO. 

Observatory 

COALBURG, WEST VIRGINIA. 

W. H. Edwards 

COLUMBUS, OHIO. 

Ohio State Agricultural Society 

DORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Dr. Edward Jarvis 






12 

35 
53 
12 

17 

30 
2 



263 
74 

341 

12 

KJ 

1 

10 

29 



8 

{)8 

258 

1 



50 
11 



36 



89 



30 



Add re.ss. 



EASTON, PENNSYLV.\NIA. 

Professor T. C. Poiter 

GEORGETOWN, D. C. 

Dr. A. Scbott 

HAVANA, CUBA. 

Professor F. Poey 

INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA. 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb... 
Institution for Education of Blind. 
State Geological Survey 



IOWA CITY, IOWA. 



Grand Lodge of Iowa 

Iowa Institution for Deaf and 

Dumb 

Professor Hiurichs 



JEFFERSONVILLE, INDIANA. 

S.S.Lyon 

MEXICO. 

Mex. Soc. Mex. de Hist. Natural. .. 

BIONTREAL, CANADA. 

Professor P. P. Carpenter 

NEW BEDFORD, I\IASSACHUSETTS. 

J. H. Thomson , 

NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT. 



American Journal of Science 

Connecticut Academy of Sciences. 
Professor A. E. Verrill 



NEW YORK. 

American Institute 

New York Lyceum of Natural His- 
tory 

American Christian Commission... 
H. Mauusell Schiefteliu 



PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA. 



Academy of Natural Sciences 

American Philosophical Society... 
Franklin Institute 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 55 

Packages received from parties in America^ &c. — Coutinued. 



Address. 



PHILADELPHIA, PA. — Continued. 

Girard College 

Historical Society of Pennsylvania. 

Pennsylvania Honsc of Eefnge 

Pennsylvania Institute for Deaf and 

Dumb 

Society for Alleviation of Miseries 

in Public Prisons 

Wagner Free Institute of Science.. 

Dr. Isaac Lea 

Dr. G. H. Horn 

F.Peale 

PHCENIXVILLE, PENNSYLVANIA. 

C. M. Wheatley 

PORTLAND, MAINE. 

Natural History Society 

PP.INCETON, NEW JERSEY. 

Ezra Stockton 

PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND. 

Dr. E. M. Snow 

SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Esses Institute 

Peabody Academy of Science 

Dr. A. S. Packard 

F. W. Putnam 

ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA. 

Minnesota Historical Society 

SOUTH HANOVER, INDIANA. 

F. H. Bradley 






1 

19 
25 

25 

25 

113 

36 

3 

1 



65 



26 



165 

71 

16 

1 



22 



Address. 



SPKINGEIELD, ILLINOIS. 

Professor A. H. Wortheu 

AVASHINGTON, D. C. 

Bureau of Navigation 

Bureau of Statistics 

Columbia Institute for Deaf and 
Dumb 

Medical Department United States 
Army 

Nautical Almanac Office 

Treasury Department 

United States Coast Survey 

United States Agricultui-al Depart- 
ment 

United States Naval Observatory.. 

United States Patent Office 

William H. Dall 

Dr. F. V.Hayden 

General J. A. Garfield 

T. Pcesche 

B. P . Poore 

WILMINGTON, DELAWARE. 

W.M. Canby 

WINNEBAGO, ILLINOIS. 

M. S. Bebb 

ADDRESSES UNKNOWN. 

F. N. Hasselquint 

A. Zeno Sbindler 

G. M. Levette 

Unknown 

Total 



c ^ 



1 

100 

100 

16 

94 

18 
200 

472 

169 
14 
30 
68 
60 
2 
39 



1 

200 

I 

20 



6,481 



56 



LITEEARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 



Paclcages received by tJie Smithsonian Institution from Europe, in 1870, 
for distribution in America. 




ALI5.VNY, NEW VOKK. 

Albany Institute 

Dudley Observatory 

New York State Agricultural Society 

New York State Library 

New York State Medical Society 

Now York State University 

State Cabinet of Natural History.. . 
Governor of the State of New York. 

Hon. Francis C. Barlow 

Professor James Hall 

Dr. Woolworth ^ 

AMHERST, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Amherst College 

Professor C. U. Shepard 

^VKNArOLIS, MARYLAND. 

St. John's College 

State Library 

United States Naval Academy 

ANN AR150R, MICHIGAN. 

Observatory 

University of Michigan 

Major T. D. Brooks 

Professor A. Wiucbell 

APPLETON, WISCONSIN. 

Lawrence University 

AUSTIN, TEXAS. 

State Library 

Texas Institution for Deaf and Dumb 

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND. 

Maryland Historical Society 

Peabody Institute 

S. C. C!hew 

Rev. Edwin Dalrymple 

Dr. E. Foreman 

Martin Lewis 

N. H. Morrison 

Dr. P. R. Uhler 

BANGOR, MAINE. 

Dr. A. C. HamUu 

BATON ROUGE, LOUISLVNA. 

Louisiana Institution for Deaf and 
Dumb 



6 

20 

31 

27 

1 

5 

C 

1 

1 

24 

1 



BETHLEHEM, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Lehigh University 



BINGHAMTON, NEW YORK. 

Institution for Blind 



BL<"»OMINGTON, ILLINOIS. 

Illinois Natural History Society . . . 

BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Academy of Arts and Sci- 
ences 

American Christian Examiner 

American Statistical Association . . 

American Unitarian Association. .. 

Athenaeum 

Board of State Charities 

Boston Christian Register 

Boston Society of Natural History. 

Massachusetts Historical Society .. 

New England Historico-Geuealogi- 
cal Society 

North American Review 

Prison Discipline Society 

Public Library 

State Library 

Rev. W. R. Alger 

N. Apollonio 

Rev. Caleb D. Bradlee 

Dr. T. M. Brewer 

Mellen Chamberlain 

Professor D. Cheever 

Samuel G. Drake 

Rev. Dr. Garnett 

W. Lloyd Garrison 

Dr. S. G. Howe 

Gardiner G. Hubbard 

Al])hexis Hyatt 

J. Norton 

Francis Parkman 

Captain I'. W. Penhallow 

Wendell Phillips 

A. 1'. Rockwell 

Professor W. B. Rogers 

H. II. Scudder 

J. A. Swan 

Walker, Fuller & Co 

Dr. T. H. Webb 

Henry C. Wright 

BROOKLINE, aiASSACHUSETTS. 

Colonel T. Aspinwall 

Professor T. Lymau 

BROOKLYN, NEW YORK. 

Long Island Historical Society 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
Packages received from Europe, &c. — Continued. 



57 




BROOKLYN, NEW YORK — Continued. 

Dr. A. Baithelmes 

Rev. H. W. Beeclier 

J. Carson Brevoort - 

Henry C. Murphy 

Dr. A. H. Smith 

BRUNSWICK, MAINE. 

Bowdoin College 

Historical Society of Maine 

BUFFALO, NEW YORK. 

Buffalo Historical Society 

BURLLMGTON, IOWA. 

Mr. Engstrom ^ 

C. Wachmuth 

BURLINGTON, NEW JERSEY. 

W. G. Biuney 

BURLINGTON, VERMONT. 

City Clerk 

University of Vermont 

CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Association for Advance 

ment of Science 

Astronomical Journal 

Harvard College 

Herbarium of Harvard College 

Museum of Comparative Zoology.. 
Observatory of Harvard College... 

Alexander Agassiz 

Professor L. Agassiz 

Professor Asa Gray 

Professor J. G. Anthony 

Dr. B. A. Gould 

Dr. H. Ilagen 

H.T.Parker 

Professor B. Peirce 

J. Perry 

Rev. t! B. Perry 

Dr. J. Maack 

Dr. Stciudachner 

Professor J. D. Whitney 

Professor J. Wiulock 

Professor J. Wyman 

CANTON, NEW YORK. 

St. Lawrence University 

CARLISLE, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Dickinson College 

Society of Literature 



41 

2 

28 
2 

37 
34 
1 
.56 
18 
1 
8 
3 
1 
4 
1 
1 
8 
1 
5 
3 



CAVE SPRING, GEORGIA. 

Georgia Institution for Deaf and 
Dumb 

CHAPEL HILL, TEXAS. 

Soule University ■ 

CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA. 

Charleston Sluseum 

Elliott Society of Natural History. 

Society Library 

South Carolina Historical Society. . 
Dr. John E. Holbrook '. . . 

CHARLESTOWN, NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

Dr. S.Webber 

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA. 

University of Virginia 

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. 

Chicago Academy of Sciences 

Chicago College of Pharmacy 

Board of Trade 

Dearborn Observatory 

Historical Society of Chicago 

Insane Asylum 

Medical Times 

Andrew Bolter 

S. A. Briggs 

M. De la Fourtrie 

T. H. Safiord 

Charles Bonnes 

Dr. W. Stimpson 

CINCINNATI, OHIO. 

American Freemason 

American Medical College 

Astronomical Observatory 

Historical and Philosophical Society 

IMercautile Library Association 

City Clerk 

Dr. Cleveland Abbe 

J. G. Anthony 

Daniel Vaughan 

CLINTON, NEW YORK. 

Observatory of Hamilton College . . 
Dr. C. H. F. Peters 

COALBURGH, WEST VIRGINIA, 

W. H. Edwards 



58 LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 

Packages received from Europe^ &c. — Continued. 



Address. 



COLUMBIA, MISSOURI. 

Geological Survey of Missouri 

University of Missouri 

Dr. G. C. Swallow 

COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA. 

South Carolina College 

State Library 

COLUMBUS, OHIO. 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb 

Ohio State Boaid of Agriculture 

Leo Lesquereux 

CONCORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

New Hampshire Historical Society.. 
State Lunatic Asylum 

COUNCIL BLUFFS, IOWA. 

Iowa Institution for Deaf and Dumb 

D.iNVILLE, KENTUCKY. 

Kentucky Institution for Deaf and 
Dumb 

DECORAH, IOWA. 

Norwegian Luther College 

DELAWARE, OHIO. 

Ohio Wesleyan University 

DELAVAN, WISCONSIN. 

Wisconsin Institution for Deaf and 
Dumb 

DES MOINES, IOWA. 

Geological survey of Iowa 

Governor of the State of Iowa 

State Library 

DETROIT, MICHIGAN. 

Michigan State Agricultural Society 

DORCHESTER, SIASSACHUSETTS. 

Dr. Edward Jarvis 

DURHAM CENTRE, CONNECTICUT. 

Rev. W. Fowler 






1 

53 

4 



12 



Address. 



EAST GREENWICH, NEW YORK. 

Asa Fitch 



EASTON, PENNSYLVANIA. 



Lafayette College 

Professor T. C. Porter. 



EVANSTON, ILLINOIS. 

Northwestern University 

FAIRIBAULT, MINNESOTA. 

Minnesota Institution for Deaf and 
Dumb 



FALL RIVER, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Niel Arntzen 



FLINT, MICHIGjUS'^. 

Michigan Asylum for Deaf and 
Dumb 



FORT MACON, NORTH CAROLINA. 

Dr. E. Coues 



FRANKFORT, KENTUCKY. 

Geological Survey of Kentucky 

FREDERICK, MARYL.VND. 

Maryland Institution for Deaf and 
Dumb 





<o 


o 


tn 






c 


M 


Iz; 


cr: 




PL, 



FREDEEICKTON, NEW BRUNSWICK. 

King's College 

Legislative Library 



FULTON, MISSOURI. 

Missouri Asylum for Deaf and 
Dumb 



GALESBURG, ILLINOIS. 

Lombard University 

GALESVILLE, WISCONSIN. 

Galesville University 

GAMBIER, OHIO. 

Kenyon College 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
Packages received from Uurojje, &c. — Continued. 



59 




• GENEVA, NEW YORK. 

Professor H. L. Smith 

GEORGETOWN, D. C. 

Georgetown College 

GRAND RAPIDS, MICHIG.VN. 

E. O. Currier 

GREENCASTLE, INDL\NA. 

Indiana Asbury University 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA. 

Nova Scotian Institute of Natural 

Scieuces 

Professor George Lawson 



HAMILTON, NEW YORK. 



Madison University . 
Rev. A. C. Kendrick 



HAMPDEN SYDNEY, VIRGINIA. 

Hampden Sydney College 

HANOVER, NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

Dartmouth College 

HAVANA, CUBA. 

Professor F. Poey 

HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANLA.. 

Medical Society of the State of Penn- 
sylvania ■ 

State Library 



HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT. 

American Asylum for Deaf and 

Dumb 

Historical Society of Connecticut. . . 

Insane Asylum 

Young Men's Institute , 

Trinity College 



HUDSON, OHIO. 

Western Reserve College 

INDLVNAPOLIS, INDIiVNA. 

Indiana Historical Society 



iNDL-VNAPOLis, IND. — Continued. 



Indiana Institute for Blind 

Indiana Institution for Deaf and 

Dumb 

Dr. W. W. Butterfield 



LNMANSVILLE, WISCONSIN. 

Wisconsin Scandinavian Society.. 

IOWA CITY, IOWA. 



Grand Lodge 

Iowa State University 
Professor G. Hinrichs . . 
Dr. C.A.White 



ITHACA, NEW YORK. 



Cornell College 

Dr. Wesley Newcomb 

Professor Goldwin Smith 



JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI. 



state Library . . . 
J. S. B. Thacker. 



JACKSONVILLE, ILLINOIS. 



Illinois Institute for Blind 

Illinois Institution for Deaf and 
Dumb 



JEFFERSON CITY, MISSOURI. 

Historical and Philosophical Society 

KEYTESVILLE, MISSOURI. 

Charles Veatch 



KINGSTON, CANADA. 

Botanical Society of Canada 
Queen's College 



KNOXVILLE, TENNESSEE. 

Tennessee School for Deaf and 
Dumb 



LEBANON, TENNESSEE. 

Cumberland University 



LEWISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA. 

University 



LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY. 

Rev.T. W. Coit 



1 

21 

1 



60 



LITERAEY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
Faclcages received from Europe, &c. — Continued. 



Address. 



LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA. 

M. F. Maury 

LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS. 

Arkansas Institutioi for Deaf and 

Dumb 

State Library 

State University 

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY. 

City Clerk 

Grand Lodge 

University of Louisville 

Historical Society of Kentucky 

LYNN, MASSACHUSETTS. 

Massacbusetts Society of Natural 
History 

MADISON, WISCONSIN. 

Eruigranten 

Historical Society of Wisconsin . . . 

State Library 

Wisconsin State Agricultural Society 

Dr. P. A. Cbadbourno 

Mr. Hill 

MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT. 

Wesleyan University 

MILLEDGEVILLE, GEORGIA. 

State Library 

University 

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN. 

Increase A. Lapbam 

MONTGOMERY, ALABAMA. 

State Library 

MONTPELIER, VERMONT. 

Historical and Antiquarian Society 

of Vermont 

State Librarv 

Dr. Albert linger 

MONTREAL, CANADA. 

Geological Survey of Canada 

McGill College 

Montreal Historical Society 






Address. 



MONTREAL, CANADA — Continued. 

Natural History Society 

Observatory 

E. Billings 

Professor P. P. Carpenter 

Professor J. W. Dawson 

Professor J. Sterry Hunt 

Sir William Logan 

NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE. 

State Library 

University of Nasbville 

Rev. Pbilip Liudsley 

NATCHEZ, MISSISSIPPI. 

William P. Miller 

NEENAH, WISCONSIN. 

Scandinavian Library Association 

NEWARK, NEW JERSEY. 

Historical Society of New Jersey. 

NEW BEDFORD, MASSACHUSETTS. 

William Hathaway, jr 

NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY. 

Geological Survey of New Jersey. 
Professor George H. Cooke 

NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT. 

American Journal of Science and 
Arts 

American Oriental Society 

Connecticut Academy of Arts and 
Sciences 

New Haven Museum 

Yale College 

Professor W. P. Blake 

Hon. C. W. Bradley 

Professor W. H. Brewer 

Professor G. J. Brush 

Professor J. D. Dana 

Professor D. C. Eaton 

Professor E. Loomis 

Proiessor C. S. Lyman 

Professor C. O. Marsh 

Professor H. A. Newton 

Dr. Sherman , 

Professor B. Silliman 

Professor A. C. Twining 

Professor A. E. Verrill 

Professor W. D. Whitney 

Professor T. D. Woolsey 



o-^. 
^ % 



LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
PacJcages received from Europe, &c. — Continued. 



61 




NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. 

City Clerk 

New Orleaus Academy of Natural 

Scieuces 

University of Louisiaua 

Dr. Beunet Dowler 

Dr. J. O. Noyes 

NEW YORK, NEW YORK. 

American Bureau of Mines 

American Christian Commission ... 

American Ethnological Society 

American Geographical and Sta- 
tistical Society 

American Journal of Mining 

American Journal of Obstetrics — . 

American Institute 

American Microscopical Society 

American Museum of Natural His- 
tory 

Astor Library 

Central Park Observatory , 

Columbia College 

Cooper Institute , 

Editor Homceopa.thic Sun 

Editor Medical Gazette , 

Herbarium of Columbia College 

Historical Society 

Institution for Improved Instruction 
for Deaf and Dumb 

Lyceum of Natural History 

Mercantile Library Association 

Metropolitan Board of Health 

Mexican consul 

New York Academy of Medicine 

New York Christian Encxuirer 

School of Mines 

United States Sanitary Commission 

University 

Dr. F. A. P. Barnard 

Rev. Dr. Bellows 

T. Bland 

Dr. W. Baeck 

Alexander W. Bradford 

Dr. C. F. Chandler 

Dr. S. Cutting 

Dr. E. H. Davis 

Captain .J. M. Dow 

Dr. 11. Draper 

Rev. John P. Durbin 

Daniel W. Fisk 

Professor H. Flugel 

Henry Grinnell 

Dr. E. Harris 

Professor Waterhouse Hawkins 

E. A. Hopkins 

Professor C. A. .loy 

Dr. J. P. Kimball 

George N. Lawrence 



NEW YORK, N. Y. — Continued. 



James Lenox 

C.Loosey, Consul General of Austria 

Dr. B. W. McCrady 

Dr. J. S. Newberry 

Dr. J. C.Nott 

Baron R. Osten-Sacken 

Messrs. Parker & Douglas 

Brother Paulian, Manhattan College 

Professor Charles Rau 

Hon. S. B. Ruggles 

E. G. Squier 

F. R. Stallknecht 

Professor John Torrey 

Prosper M. Wetmore 

E.C. Wines 



NORTHAMPTON, MASS. 

Clarke Institution for Deaf and 
Dumb 



NOTRE DAME, INDIANA. 

Sister Angela Gillesx)ie 



OLATHE, KANSAS. 

Kansas Institution for Deaf and 
Dumb 



OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 

State Library 

OMaIia, NEBRASKA. 

Nebraska Institution for Deaf and 
Dumb 



OTTAWA, CANADA. 

Legislative Library of Canada . . . 

OXFORD, OHIO. 

Miami University 

OXFORD, MISSISSIPPI. 

University of Mississippi 

E. W. Hilgard 

PEORIA, ILLINOIS. 

Dr. F. Brendel 

PHILADELPHLV, PENNSYLVANIA. 

American Journal of Conchology.. 
Academy of Natural Sciences . 



62 LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 

Faclcages received from Europe, &c. — Continued. 



Address. 




PHILADELPHIA, PA. — Continued. 

American Entomological Society... 

American Journal of Medical Sci- 
ence 

American Pharmaceutical Associa- 
tion 

American Philosophical Society 

Eoard of Controllers of Public Schools 

Central High School 

Franklin Institute 

Girard College 

Historical Societj' of Pennsylvania. 

House of Refuge 

Library Company 

Magnetic and Meteorological Ob- 
servatory 

North American Medico-Chirurgical 
Review 

Numismatic and Antiquarian So- 
ciety 

Observatory of Girard College 

Pennsylvania Institute for Blind. .. 

Pennsylvania Institute for Deaf and 
Dumb 

Wagner Free Institute of Science.. 

James Barclay 

Rev. E. R. Beadle 

Professor H. Bigelow 

Lorin Blodget 

Dr. D. D. Brinton 

H. C. Carey 

J. Cassin 

G. W. Childs 

Dr. B. H.Coates 

T. A. Conrad \.-.. 

Professor E. D. Cope 

Professor E. T. Cresson 

Dr. Isaac Hays 

Dr. G. H. Horn 

S. P. James 

Dr. Isaac Lea 

Dr. J. L. Le Conte 

Professor J. Leidy 

Professor J. P. Lesley 

Dr. J. A. Meigs 

J. G. Morris 

J. Redfield 

Dr. J. H. M. Packard 

W. Sharswood 

George W. Tryon, jr 

Professor W. Wagner 

Dr. E.Ward 

PIICENIXVILLF,, PENNSYLVANIA. 

Charles M. Wheatley 

PORTLAND, MAINE. 

City Registrar 

Portland Society of Natural His- 
tory 



28 

121 

1 

5 

28 
1 

12 
1 
3 



Address. 



POUGHKEEPSIE, NEW YORK. 

Vassar College 

PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY. 

College of New Jersey 

Albert D. Brown 

Professor A. Guyot 

PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISL^IND. 

Brown University 

Registrar General of Rhode Island. 
Rhode Island Historical Society... 

John R. Bartlett 

John Carter Brown 

Professor Alexis Caswell 

Romeo Elton 

Dr. Edwin M. Snow 

QUEBEC, CANjVDA. 

Laval University 

Literary and Historical Society . . . 
Observatory 

R^NXEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA. 

North Carolina Institution for Deaf 

and Dumb 

State Library 

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA. 

Historical Society of Virginia 

State Library 

T.H.Wynne 

ROCHESTER, NEW YORK. 

University 

SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNL\. 

Geological Survey of California... 
State Library 

ST. ANTHONY, MINNESOTA. 

University of Minnesota 

ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI. 

Deutsches Institnt zur Befiirderung 
der Wissenchaften 

Catholic Institution for Deaf and 
Dumb 

City Clerk : 

Medical and Surgical Journal 

St. Louis Academy of Sciences 






LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 
PacJcages received from Europe, &c. — Continued. 



63 



Address. 



ST. LOUIS, MO. — Continued. 



University 

Ernst von Angelrodt 

Dr. G. Baumgarten 

Professor William Cliauvenet 

Dr. G. Engelmann 

G. F. Gauley 

Maurice Schuster 



ST. JOHN, NEW BRUNSWICK. 

Library of Mechanics' Institute . 
Natural History Society 



ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA. 

Minnesota Historical Society . 
J. H. Kloos 



ST. THOMAS, WEST INDIES. 

Professor Krebs 

SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS. 



Essex Institute , 

Peabody Academy of Science 

Dr. A. S. Packard 

Professor F. W. Putnam 

E. Morse , 



SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA. 

California Academy of Natural Sci- 
ences , 

California Institution for Deaf and 
Dumb 

James Behrens . , 

H. G. Bloomer 

Henry Bolauder 

E. E. C. Stearns 



SAVANNAH, GEORGIA. 

Historical Society of Georgia 

SHARON, CONNECTICUT. 

JohnC. Smith 



SING SING, NEW YORK. 

Dr. G.J.Fisher 



SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS. 

Editor of Masonic Trowel 

Professor II. \. Worthen 



STAUNTON, VIRGINIA. 

Virginia Institution for Deaf and 
Dumb 




68 

1 
1 
1 
3 

7 



Address. 



S WANTON, C-\JS^AD.A. 

Dr. Perry 

TALLADEGA, ALABAMA. 

Alabama Institution for Deaf and 
Dumb 



TORONTO, CANADA. 



Canadian Institute 

Literary and Historical Society 

Magnetic Observatory 

Trinity College Library 

University of Canada 



TUSCALOOSA, ALABAMA. 

University 

URBANA, OHIO. 

University of Urbana 

UTICA, NEW YORK. 

American Journal of Insanity. 
Colonel E. Jewett 



o bo 



VANDALIA, ILLINOIS. 

Illinois Historical and Archaeologi- 
cal Society 



WASHINGTON, D. C. 

American Annals of the Deaf and 

Dumb 

American Nautical Almanac 

Bureau of Navigation 

Bureau of Statistics 

Census Bureau 

Department of Agriculture 

Dep.artment of Education 

Engineer Department 

General Land Office 

Hospital for Insane 

Howard University 

Hydrographic Office 

Interior Department 

Library of Congress 

Light-House Board 

Mexican minister 

National Academy of Science 

National Deaf-mute College 

Navy Department 

President of the United States 

Quartermaster General's Office 

Ordnance Bureau 

Secretary of the Navy 



64 LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 

Fackagcs received from EurojJC, &c. — Continued. 



Address. 



WASHINGTON, D. c. — Continued. 



Secretary of "War 

State Department 

Snroeou General's Office 

Survey of North American Lakes . . 

Treasury Department 

United States Boundary Commis- 
sion 

United States Coast Survey 

United States Naval Observatory. . 

United States Patent Office 

Washington Public Schools 

Professor S. F. Baird 

Surgeon General Barnes 

H. D. Barnard 

S.M.Clark 

Professor J. H. C. Coffin 

W. H.Dall 

Admiral Davis 

Dr. W. B. Driukard 

W. Ferrel 

W. Q. Force 

' General J. C. Fr<^mont 

Baron von Gerolt 

Professor T. Gill 

Dr. F. V. Hayden 

Dr. Hayes 

Professor J. PCeury 

F.B. Hough 

General A. A. Humphreys 

Admiral S. P. Leo 

L. W. Meeeh 

F.B.Meek 

Professor S. Newcomb . 

D.F.M.Otis 

Dr.G. A.Otis 

Hon. Peter Parker 

T.R.Peale 

Count de Pourtales 

Commodore Sands 

Joseph Saxton 






6 

95 
1 
1 

1 
48 
97 
113 
5 
16 
1 
1 
1 
3 
5 
1 
1 
1 
2 
4 
1 
5 
3 
1 
28 
1 
1 
1 
1 
15 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
2 



Address. 



"WASHINGTON, D. c. — Continued. 



Professor G. Schaeffer 

Mrs. H. Schoolcraft 

Charles A. Schott 

Hou. F. E. Spinner 

Henry Ulke 

D. A. Wells 

Lieutenant Colonel Williamson 
Dr. J. G. Woodward 



WATERVILLE, "MAINE. 

WaterviUe College 

WESTEUVILLE, OHIO. 

Otterbein University 

WEST POINT, NEW YORK. 

United States Military Academy 

WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA. 

Eastern State Lunatic Asylum.. 

WILMINGTON, DELAWARE. 

W.M. Cauby 

WINDSOR, NOVA SCOTIA. 

Library of King's College . 

WINNEBAGO, ILLINOIS. 

M. S. Bebb 

WORCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS. 

American Antiquarian Society. . 






Total addresses of institutions 
Total addresses of individuals 



306 
261 



567 



Total number of paicels to institutions 
Total number of parcels to individuals. 



2, 949 
756 



3, 705 



LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS OF THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1870. 



[B signifies Barometer ; P, Psychrometer ; T, Tliermometer ; E, Eain-gange ; N, no instrument.] 



Station. 



Name of observer. 






BRITISH AMERICA. 

Stanbridge, Quebec 

Acadia College, Wolfville, 2f. S 

Clifton, Ontario 

St. .John, New Brunswick 

Winnipeg, Manitoba 

BERMUDA. 

Center Signal Station, St.George's 

MEXICO. 

Mirador, Vera Cruz 



Gilmour, A. H. J 

Higgins, Prof D. F 

Jones, W. Martin , 

Murdock, G '.. 

Stewart, James 



45 08 
45 06 



73 

64 iJ5 



Carlowvillo, Dallas Co 

Selma, Dallas Co 

Havaua, Hale Co 

Coatopa, Sumter Co 

Near Elyton, Jefferson Co 

Mobile, "Mobile Co 

Greene Springs School, Hale Co. 
Fish River, Baldwin Co 



ARKANSAS, 



Mineral Springs, Hempstead Co. 

Fayetteville, Washington Co 

Helena, Phillips Co 



CALIFORNIA. 



Visalia, Tulare Co 

Monterey, Monterey Co 

Chico, Butte Co , 

Wat.sonville, Santa Cruz Co . 

Clayton, Contra Costa Co 

Benicia, Solano Co , 

Indian Valley, Plumas Co. . . 

Vacavillo, Solano Co 

Cahto, Mendocino Co 



COLORADO, 



Denver, Arapahoe Co . 



CONNECTICUT. 

Ktrth Greenwich, FairlieldCo . 

Sonthington, Hartford Co 

Miildletown, Middlesex Co 

Colebrook, Litchfield Co 

Brookfield, Fairfield Co 

Coliambia, Tolland Co . 



DELAWARE. 



Dover, Kent Co . . 
Millord, KentCo. 



45 16 42 
49 52 



66 3 45 
97 



Koyal Engineers, (in the 
Royal Gazette.) 



Sartorius, Dr. C . 



« White Spring, Hamilton Co Adams, E. W . . 

8t. A ugustine, St John's Co Atwood, G. W . 



Alison, H. L., M.D 

Fabs, C. F., M. D 

Jennings, S. K., M D . . 
Jennings, S. K., M. D . . 

Shields, Miss E. B 

Taylor, L. B 

Tutwiler, H 

Vankirk, W. J 



32 10 
32 30 
32 30 



87 15 
87 10 
87 41 



30 41 .34 

32 50 



88 10 
87 46 



Bishop, H 34 

McClung, C. L 36 2 

EusseU, O.F 34 32 52 



Blake, J. W 

Canfield, C. A.,M.D... 
Cheney, W.F.,M.D... 

Compton, A. J. .M. D 

McChmg, C. L 

Naval Hospital 

Pulsifer, Mary E 

Simmons, Prof. J. C . ... 
Thornton, Dr. W. W . . . 



Byers, W.W.& S.T. Sopris 



Alcott, William P 

Andrews, L 

Johnston, John 

Rockwell, Charlotte . . . 

Roe, Rev.S. W 

Yeomans, W. G 



Bateman, J. H 

PhiUipps, Mrs, W. R. . -. 



36 35 

36 

39 44 45 

36 56 

37 56 

38 06 19 



38 21 21 
40 



41 33 
42 

42 27 
41 40 



39 10 
38 55 



30 



93 

94 10 
90 08 46 



119 17 
121 52 
121 44 37 



121 40 

122 15 19 



121 58 23 
125 



72 39 

73 3 
73 33 
72 42 



75 30 
75 30 



Feet. 

222 

80 



135 
650 



300 
236 
500 



14 

500 



34 

1.50 

45 

76 

2,954 

3,280 

175 

1,500 



5,350 



205 

1,210 

100 



TR 
BPTR 

T 

BPTR 
B P T 11 



BPTR 



TR 
BPTR 
TR 
TR 
TR 
TR 
TR 
TR 



TR 
TR 

T 



BPTR 

BPTR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

BTR 

T 

BTR 

TR 



TR 



BTR 

TR 
BPTR 
TR 
TR 
TR 



TR 
TR 



T 
TR 



5s 



66 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AN!) OBSERVEES. 



List of mdeorolo(jical stations and ohservcrs, <.j-c.,for the year 1870 — Continued. 



Station. 



Florida— Cont'd. 

Jacksonville, Dnval Co 

Ocala, Maiiou Co 

Newport, Wakulla Co 

Twelve miles north of Mosquito 

Inlet," Volusia Co. 

Orange Grove, Manatee Co 

Manatee, ^Manatee Co 

Port Oranno, Volusia Co 

Biscayno, Dade Co 

Chattahoochee ArsenaljGadsden 

Co. 
Pilatka, Putnam Co 



St. Mary'.s, Camden Co 

Near Quitman, Brooks Co . 

Atlanta, Fulton Co 

Columbus, Muscogee Co. . . 

St. Mary's, Camden Co 

Berne, Camdeu Co 

Penfield, Greene Co 



ILLINOIS. 



Elmore, Peoria Co 

Pleasant Itidne, Bureau Co. 

Saudwii-li, Do Kalb Co 

Elmira, Stark Co 

Andalusia, Rock Island Co. 

Peoria, Peoria Co 

Springfield, Sangamon Co . . 

Chicago, Cook Co 

Alto, Lee Co 

Louisville, Clay Co 

Havana, Mason Co 

Decatur, Macon Co 

Mount Sterling, Brown Co . 

(roicoiida, !'(!;)(■ Co 

Paua, Christian Co 

Near South Pass, Union Co. 

Charleston, Coles Co 

Manchester, Scott Co 

Wapella, De Witt Co 

Quincy, Adams Co 

Mattoon, Coles Co 

Marengo, McHenry Co 

Waterloo, Monroe Co 

Chicago, Cook Co 

Galesourg, Knox Co 

Evanston, Cook Co 

Augusta, Hancock Co 

Ottawa, La Salle Co 

Belvidcii', B(jono Co 

Hennepin, J'utuamCo 

Oquawka, Hender.9on Co . . . 
Near Wyanet, Bureau Co . . 



Aurora, Kane Co 

Dubois, Washington Co 

Etfingham, Eflingham Co... 
Winnebago, Winnebago Co. 
AVarsaw, Hancock Co 



Near Laporte, Laporte Co. .. 
Mount Carmel, Franklin Co. 



Vcvay, Switzerland Co... 
New Harmony, Posey Co. 

Laconia, Harrison Co 

Spiceland, Henry Co 



Name of observer. 



Baldwin, A. S.,M.D. 

Barker, E 

Beeciicr, Rev. C 

Chamberlain, S.N . . . 



Clarke, W.J 

Coachman, B. A 

Hawks, Mrs. E. H . 

Hunt, W. H 

Martin, M 



Robinson, Gen'l G. D. . . 



Barker.E 

Cutter, John L 

Deekner, F., and son . 

Fogarty, N. J 

Hillycr, H, L 

Hillyer.H. L , 

Sanibr d, S. P 



Adams, W. H 

Aldrich, Verry 

Ballon, N.E 

Blanchard, O. A 

Bowman, E. H., M. D. . . 

Brendel.F 

Brinkerhoff, G. W 

Brookes, S 

Carey, Daniel 

Chase, D. H., M. D 

Cochrane, J 

Dudley, T 

Duncan, Rev. A 

El(lrea<ic,W.V 

Fiuley,'T„ i\r.D 

Freeman, Jl. C 

Gramcsly, C 

Grant, J'aud C. W 

Grofi- T. Louis 

Hearne, F.I 

Henry, W. E 

James, I. W 

Jozefe,C.,M.D 

Langguth, J. G 

Livingston, Prof. W 

Marcy, Prof. Oliver 

Mead, S. B 

Merwin, Mrs. E. H 

Moss, G. B 

Osborn, N 

Pattei-son, H. N 

Phelps, E. S. and Miss 

L. E. 
Spaulding, A. and Mrs. 

E. D. 

Spencer, W. C 

Thompson, W., M. D . . . 
Tolman, J. W. and Miss 
Whitaker, B 



27 28 
27 30 



25 45 

30 48 



30 40 23 
30 45 
33 45 



Andrew, F. G 

Applegate, J. A., and 
daughter. 

Boerner, C. G 

Chappelsmith, J 

Crosier, A 

Dawson, W 



41 15 
41 31 
41 12 
41 25 

40 43 

39 48 
42 

41 45 
:5S 40 

40 20 
39 40 
40 

37 41 
39 24 21 



82 35 
82 45 



80 16 

84 48 



81 26 20 
83 30 30 

84 



39 31 

39 33 

40 11 
39 54 

39 29 10. 5 
42 13 

38 30 
42 

40 55 
42 1 

40 10 

41 20 

42 15 
41 30 

41 8 V 

41 30 

41 45 

38 14 

39 3 

42 17 

40 20 



39 22 

38 46 

38 08 
37 47 

39 48 



89 15 

88 30 

90 15 

90 4G 

89 30 
89 33 
87 

89 

88 30 

89 50 
80 10 

91 15 
83 40 
89 6 



14 

14 36 

07 

26 

20 38 

31 

30 

30 

25 

38 

47 
47 
20 
30 
45 



88 22 

89 16 

88 5 

89 12 
91 31 



Feet. 
20 



12 

180 



1,050 



550 
005 



84 51 

84 59 20. 5 

87 50 

85 50 

85 18 



740 
780 



GOO 
'576 



810 



696 

405 
592 
900 



770 
900 



350 






1,025 



BPTR 

T 

PTR 

TR 

TR 
TR 

T 
TR 
TR 

PTR 



TR 
TR 
TR 
TR 
TR 
TR 
TR 



R 
T 

BPTR 

TR 

B T 

BPTR 

T 

T 

T 

TR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

T 

TR 

B P T R 

N 

TR 

TR 

TR 

T 

BPTR 

BPTR 

BTR 

PTR 

TR 

TR 

T 
TR 
TR 

BTR 

TR 

TR 

BTR 

TR 



TR 
TR 

BPTR 

BPTR 

TR 

BTR 



METEOEOLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



67 



List of meteorological staiions and observers, c^-c, for the year 1870 — Continued. 



Station. 



Indiana — Continued. 



Kniglitstown, Ttusli Co 

Mcrom, Sullivan Co 

Mnncie, Delaware Co 

Rensselaer, Jasper Co 

Columbia City, Whitley Co. 

Meroun, Sullivan Co 

La Fayette, Tippecanoe Co. 

Fort Wa>Tie, Allen Co 

Kentlanti, Newton Co 

Aurora, Dearborn Co 

Harveysburg, Fountain Co . 

Annapolis, Paik Co 

IntUanapolis, Marion Co 



BoonesborouglL, Boone Co 

Vawter's Grove, Adair Co 

Moimt Vernon, Linn Co 

Webster City, Hamilton Co 

Guttenberg, Clayton Co 

Near Algona, Kossnth Co . . . 

Near Newton, Jasper Co 

Clinton, Clinton Co - 

Waukon, Iowa Co 

Dubuque, Dubuque Co 

West Union, Fayette Co 

Near Fort MadLson, Lee Co 

Grant City, Sac Co 

Monticello, Jones Co 

Sac City, Sac Co 

Iowa City, Johnson Co 

Waterloo, Black Hawk Co 

Harris (jlrove, Harrison Co 

Ni'ar Kdifi-, I'ocaliontas Co 

^flincral liidge, Boone Co 

Spring Grove, Hardin Co 

The Woodlands, Floyd Co 

Muscatine, Muscatine Co 

Independence, Buchanan Co 

Near Independence, Buchanan 
Co. 

Whitesboro, Harrison Co 

Algona, Kossuth Co 

Bowen's Prairie, Jones Co 



Olathe, Johnson Co 

Near Ames, Story Co 

Williamstown, Jefferson Co. 



Burlington, Coffey Co 

Crawfordsville, Crawford Co . . 

Neosho Falls, Woodson Co 

Atchison, Atchison Co 



Baxter Springs, Cherokee Co. . - 

Douglass, Butler Co 

Manhattan, Riley Co 

Near Leroy, Coffey Co 

Lawrence, I)ougla.ss Co 

Leavenworth, Leavenworth Co. 

Paola, Miami Co 

Holton, .Tackson Co 

Coimcil Grove, Morris Co 



KKXTUCKY. 



Danville, Boyle Co 

Louisville, j'efferson Co. 
Pine Grove, Clark Co . . . 

Arcadia, Lincoln Co 

Springdale, Jefferson Co. 



Name of observer. 



Deem, D 

Holmes, T 

Kemper, G. W. H., M. D 
Lonshridge, J. H., M. D 
McCoy, Dr. F. and Miss 

McHenry, B. F 

Newton, J. W 

Robertson, 11. S 

Spitler, D 

Sutton, G 

Williams, Mrs. B. C 

Williams, Mrs. B. C 

Woolen, Dr. G. V., and 
others. 



Babcock, E 

Bryant, Mrs. J. A . . . 

Collin, Prof. A 

Croft, Clayton I 

Dickenson, J. P 

Dorweiler, P 

Failor, A 

Farnsworth, P. J. . . . 

Hancock, E. M 

Horr, Asa, M. D 

McClintock, F 

McCready, D 

Miller, E'. and R 

Moulton, M. M 

NeLson, D. B 

Parvin, Prof. T. S ... 

Steed, T 

Stern, Jacob F 

Strong, Oscar I 

Sullivan, Z. T 

Towusend, N 

Wadey, H 

Walton, J. P 

Warne, G., M.D.... 
Wheaton, Mrs.D. B. 



Witter, D. K. and M.E. 

Warren, J. H 

Woodworth, S 



Beckwith, W 

Cotton, J. M .-■ 

Cotton, J. M., and E. 

Adams. 

Crocker, A 

Daniels, P 

Groesbeek, Mrs. E. W. . . 
Horn, Dr. H. B. and 

Miss C. 
Ingraharn and Hyland . . 

Lamb, Dr. W. M 

Mudge, Prof. B. F 

Shoemaker, J. G 

Snow, Prof. F. H 

Stayman, Dr. J 

Walrad, L. D 

Walter.s, Dr. J 

Woodworth, A 



Beattv, O 

Blackburn, Dr. C. B . 
Martin, Dr. S. D .... 

Shriver, H 

Young, Mrs. L 



39 46 

39 05 

40 12 

40 56 

41 10 
39 05 



41 

40 56 
39 5 54 
39 55 



39 47 



4'2 

41 20 
42 

42 30 
43 

43 
42 
41 47 



42 30 
42 58 

40 37 
42 16 
42 15 
42 20 

41 36 53 

42 30 
41 

42 50 
42 G 
42 32 
43 

41 25 

42 25 

42 29 25 

41 38 

43 05 

42 15 



38 50 

42 
39 

38 08 
37 53 
37 

39 42 

37 03 

37 33 
39 12 

38 06 28 

38 55 

39 20 

38 30 

39 27 
38 40 



38 04 

37 34 

38 06 55 



85 24 
87 40 
85 16 
87 13 
85 30 
87 40 



85 

87 12 
•84 54 
87 40 



87 6 



93 14 

94 3J 
91 30 
94 

90 50 
94 20 
94 
90 10 



90 39 51 

91 50 
91 28 

94 57 36 
91 15 
95 

91 30 10 

92 30 
95 

94 34 

93 40 

93 20 
93 

91 03 

92 06 

91 50 08 

95 40 

94 15 



94 30 

93 30 

95 30 

95 27 

94 85 



95 

94 37 
97 03 
96 40 

95 27 
95 15 

94 33 

95 30 

95 10 

96 30 



84 30 



84 30 

85 24 13 



Feet. 
800 



800 
725 

5U9 



1,160 
1,500 



COO 
1,500 



666 
1,300 



928 
1,000 
1,200 



582 
940 



1,000 



1,300 



850 

787 



1, 172 



978 
900 
570 



BPTR 

TR 

T R 

TR 

TR 

TR 
BTR 

TR 

TR 
BPTR 

TR 

TR 
B P T R 



TR 
TR 

T 

T 

T 

T 

TR 

TR 

TR 

BPTR 

BTR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

BPTR 

T 
TR 
TR 
TR 
TR 

T 

BTR 

BTR 

TR 

TR 

T 

BTR 



TR 
TR 
TR 

R 
TR 
TR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

BTR 

BTR 

BPTR 

TR 

TR 

T 
TR 



BTR 
BPTR 
BPTR 
BPTR 
BPTR 



68 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



List of metforological stafiona and observers, ^-G.jfor the year 1870 — Continued. 



Station. 



LOUISIANA. 

Anchorage Plantat'n, Bossier Par 
Pijuchatoula, Tangipahoa Par 

New Orleans, Orleans Par 

Cbeneyville, Eapides Par 



Honlton, Aroostook Co 

Orono, Penobscot Co 

Gardiner, Kennebec Co 

Coruisli, York Co 

Lisbon, Androscoggin Co 

Standisb, Cumberland Co 

Steuben, Wasbinston Co 

Mount Desert, Hancock Co 

Williamsburg, Piscataquis Co. . . 

Oxford, Oxford Co 

Surry, Hancock Co 

Cornish, York Co 

West Waterville, Kennebec Co. . 

MARYLAND. 



Tallstou, Harford Co 

Annapolis, Anne Arundel Co . . . 

Frederick, Frederick Co 

Emuiittsburc;, Frederick Co 

Woodlawn, Cecil Co 

St. Marys City, St. Mary's Co . . 
Woodstock College, Baltimore Co 



MASSACHUSETTS. 



Boston, Suffolk Co 

Kichmond, Berkshire Co 

West Newton, Middlesex Co. . . 

Newbury, Essex Co 

Lunenbiirg, Worcester Co 

Hinsdale, Berkshire Co 

Worcester, Worcester Co 

Lawrence, Essex Co 

Williamstown, Berkshire Co. . . 

Topsfield, Essex Co 

Mendon, Worcester Co 

N. Billerica, Middlesex Co 

Georii'i'tiiwu, Essex Co 

Cambt idge, :Middlesex Co 

Kingstiiwii, I'lyniouth Co 

New r>i'df(ird, liristol Co 

A mlurst, Hampshire Co 

Milton, Norfolk Co 



inCHIGAN. 



Litchfield. Litchfield Co 

Otsego, Allegan Co 

Ontonagon, Ontonagon Co 

Adrian, Lenawee Co 

Detroit, Wayne Co 

Grand Piapids, Kent Co 

Macon, Lenawee Co 

Lansing, Ingham Co 

Olivet, Eaton Co 

Kalamazoo, Kalamazoo Co 

rieasanton. Manistee Co 

Muskegon, Muskegon Co 

Alpena. Alpena Co 

Northport, Leelenaw Co 

Coldwatcr. Branch Co 

Homestead, Benzie Co 

Graixl Kajiids, Kent Co 

Monroe. Moni-oe Co 

Central Mine, Keweenaw Co... 

Benzonia, Benzie Co 

Ann Arbor, Washtenaw Co 



Name of observer. 



Carter, J. H 

Collins, H. C 

Foster. Captain E. W. 
{lackson, 11. S 



Femald, C. H 

Fernald, M. C 

Gardiner, E. H 

Guptill, G. W 

Moore, Asa P 

Moulton, J.P 

Parker, J. D 

Parker, J. D 

Pitman , Edwin 

Smith, H.D 

Tripp, Oscar H 

West, Silas 

Wilbur, Benjamin F 



Curtis, G.G 

Goodman, W. E 

Haushew, H.K 

Jourdau, Prof. C H 
McCormick, J. O . - . 
Stephenson, Eev. J. 
Valentine, A. X 



Appleton, F. H 

Bacon, W 

Bixbv,,LH 

Caldwell, J. H 

Cunningliam, Geo. A. 

Dewhnrst, liev. E 

Draper, J., M.D 

Fallon, J 

Hoi)kius, Prof. A 

Merriam, S. A 

M:etcalf, J. G.,M:.D. . 

Nason, Eev. E 

Nelson, S. Aug 

Perry, Eev. Jno. B . . . 

Newcomb, G. S 

Eodman, S 

Snell, Prof. E. S 

Teele, Eev. A. K 



Bullard, E 

Cha.se, M.. M.D 

Ellis, Edwin. M. D... 
Helme, Miss L. May. . 

Higgius, F. W 

Holmes, Dr. E. S 

Howell,D 

Kedzie, Prof. E.G.... 

Kemp, Prof. A. F 

Mapes, H. H 

Millard, Jos. D-. 

Pattison, H. A .. 

Paxton, J.M 

Smith, Eev. G.N 

Sonthworth, N. L.... 

Steele, Eev. G.N 

Streng, L. H 

Whel'pley, MissF. E. 

Whittlesey, S. H 

Wilson, W 

Winchell, Mrs. N. H. 



■23 



32 30 
30 30 



4G 07 
44 53 10 
44 55 
43 40 
44 

43 45 

44 31 21 



45 21 
44 08 
44 30 

43 33 

44 30 



39 30 

38 58 

39 24 
39 40 
39 38 

38 10 

39 55 



20 

23 

21 

45 

35 

27 

16 17 

42 13 

42 37 

38 



39 

22 17 
14 37 



93 45 
90 20 



67 49 24 

68 38 57 

69 45 50 

70 44 
70 4 
70 30 

67 37 34 



69 71 

70 33 

68 30 
70 50 

69 46 



76 29 

77 26 30 
77 20 

76 04 
70 30 
76 52 



71 

73 20 
71 17 

70 55 

71 43 
73 7 

71 48 13 
71 10 13 
70 12 42 

70 57 

71 33 35 

70 16 30 
71 

71 11 
70 45 

70 56 

72 34 30 

71 6 1 



84 46 

8930" 
83 57 
82 03 

85 40 



84 94 
86" io' 



83 05 
85 41 



86 30 



83 23 
87 54 
86 
83 44 



Feet. 



470 
134 



800 

130 

280 

50 



50 

784 



300 

20 



45 
400 



1,000 

55i 

25 

450 



528 
143 

686 



40 
60 
00 
207 
115 



620 
1,240 



968 
"756 



574 
592 



590 

1,177 

620 

840 



T 
BTE 

BTE 
T 



TE 
BPTE 
BPTE 

TE 

TE 

TE 

TE 

TE 

TE 

TE 

TE 
BTE 

TE 



TE 
BPTE 
BTE 
BPTE 
BTE 
TE 
TE 



T 

TE 

TE 

T 

BTE 

BTE 

BPTE 

B P T E 

B T E 

BPTE 

BTE 

B T 

TE 

T 

TE 

BPTE 

B P T E 

TE 



BTR 

T 

T 

TE 

TE 

T 

TE 

BPTE 

BTE 

N 

TE 

BTR 

BTE 

TE 

TE 

T 
TE 
TE 
TE 

T 
TE 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. G9 

List of mefcorolofjical stations and observers, cj-c, for the year 1870— Coutiimed. 



Station. 



MISXESOTA. 

Afton, Washingtou Co 

Miiiueapolis, Hennepin Co 

Madelia, Watonwan Co 

St. Paul, Kamsey Co 

White Earth Eeservation, Beck- 
er Co. 

ISTew Ulm, Brown Co 

Litchtiehl, Meeker Co 

Beaver Bay, Lake Co 

Sibley, Sibley Co 

Koniska, McLeod Co 

inssLs-siPPi. 

Early Grove, Marshall Co 

Philadelphia, ISTeshoba Co 

Xear Holly Springs, Mar.shall Co . 

Marion, Lauderdale Co 

Clinton, Hinds Co 

Near Brookbaveu, Lawrence Co. 

Columbus, Lowndes Co • - • 

ISTatehez, Adams Co 

Brookbaveu, Lawrence Co 

Grenada, Talabusha Co 

Grenada, Yalabusha Co 

Fellowship, Jasper Co 

anssouKi. 

St. Joseph, Buchanan Co 

Harrisonville, Cass Co 

Jefferson City, Cole Co 

AUentown, St. Louis Co 

Warrensburg, Johnson Co 

Oregon, Holt Co 

Cave Spring Academy, Greene Co 

Corning, Holt Co 

BoUvar, Polk Co 

Eolla, Phelps Co 

Kansas City, Jackson Co 

Hematite, Jefferson Co 

St. Louis, St. Louis Co 

JIONTAJSA. 

Missoula, Missoula Co 

Deer Lodge City, Deer Lodge Co 

NEBEASKA. 

Richland, "Washington Co 

Near Belle vue, Sarjjy Co 

Lincoln, Lancaster Co 

Blackbird Hills, Burt Co 

Nebraska City, Otoe Co 

De Soto, Washington Co 

Newcastle, Dixon Co 

NEW HAMPSHIRE. 

Tamworth, Carroll Co 

Stratford. Coos Co 

Dunbarton, Merrimack Co 

Salisbury, Merrimack Co 

South Antrim, HiUsboro Co 

Whiteiield, Coos Co 

Shelburuc, Coos Co 

Concord, Merrimack Co .*. . . 

NEW JEESEY. 

Chester Township, Burlington Co 
Haddonflold, Camden Co 



Name of obseiTcr. 



Babcock, Dr. & Mrs. B.E. 

Cbonev, Wm 

Murphy, W. W 

Paterson, Rev. A. B 

Pyle,Dr.D 



Roos, Chas 

Wadsworth, H. L 

Wieland, C 

Woodbury, C.W. & C. E. 
Young, T.M 



Abcrnethy, W. M 

Bowden, L. A 

Coleman, T.B 

Florer, T. W., M. D . . . 

Jackson, R. S 

Keenan, Miss W. E. A 

Lull, Jas. S 

McCarv.W 

Moore, T. B 

Payne, John S 

Ringgold, R. S., M. D . . 
Robinson, Rev. E. S . . . 



Bullard, Rev. H 

Christian, John 

DeWyl,N 

Fendler, Aug 

Hall, S. K 

Kaucher, Wm 

McCortl,R.n 

Martin, Horace 

Race, Jas. A 

Rugiiles, H 

Salisbury, S. W 

Smith, John M 

Stuutebeck, Rev. F. H . 



Reinhard, J. P., and J. 

M. Menesinger. 
Stuart, Granville 



Bowen, John S 

Caldwell, Mrs. E. E 

Goodrich, G. A 

Hamilton, Rev. W 

Pettenger, J. M., and P. 
Zahner. 

Soltz, Chas 

Smith, L. H 



Brewster, Alfred- 
Brown, Branch . - . 
Colby, Alfred .... 

Couch, E.D 

Hnriin, Rev. W . - 

Kidder, L. D 

Odell, F 

Wheeler, John T. 



Beans, Thomas J 

Boadle, J., and J. L. Lip- 
pincott. 



44 50 

44 48 

44 

44 54 46 

47 50 

44 46 

45 12 
47 12 

44 31 

45 10 



35 

32 45 
34 40 
32 25 



31 34 
35 30 
31 34 
31 37 
33 45 
33 45 
32 



39 45 



38 20 
38 29 

38 45 

39 58 40 
37 30 

40 20 
37 30 

37 38 
39 5 

38 11 

38 37 23 



40 45 

46 40 



41 22 

41 03 
40 55 

42 10 

40 42 

41 50 
43 



48 48 
44 40 
43 06 
43 23 



44 20 
44 23 
43 12 



39 59 



93 10 

94 30 

94 4 54 
95 

94 26 
94 45 
90 19 
94 25 
94 20 



90 
89 15 



88 05 



90 40 
88 29 

91 24 42 
90 15 

90 
90 
85 



94 53 



92 

90 45 
93 40 
95 10 
93 30 
95 .30 

93 20 

91 33 

94 40 
90 37 
90 15 



113 45 
112 40 



96 12 

95 46 

96 52 
96 

95 45 

96 

97 20 



71 13 

71 07 

71 35 

71 20 



71 15 
71 6 
71 29 



Feet. 
950 
850 



821 
657 



434 
550 



227 
430 



650 

482 

600 

1,100 



1,000 



710 
475 
470 



3,900 
4,240 



1,350 



1,647 
1,225 



1,000 
730 
500 



700 
550 



TR 

B P T 1! 

TR 

T R 

T 

TR 

TR 
TR 
T R 
TR 



TR 

TR 

TR 

TR 
BTR 

TR 
BTR 
BTR 

TR 

TR 

TR 
BPTR 



TR 

TR 

BT 
B P T R 

B 
BPTR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

T R 

BT 

TR 
BPTR 



T 

TR 



T 
TR 

TR 

TR 

T 

TR 
TR 



TR 

TR 

TR 

T 

N 
TR 
BT 

T 



TR 
PTR 



70 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



List of meteorological stations and observers, <fc.,for the year 1870 — Coutimied. 



Station. 



Karuo of obseirver. 



3 3 

O 



New Jersey — Cont'd. 

Paterson, Passaic Co 

South Orange, Essex Co 

Tientou, Mercer Co 

Newtielfl, Gloucester Co 

Lesser Cross Roads, Somerset Co 
New Brunswick, Middlesex Co. . 

Viueland, Cumberland Co 

Catuden, Camden Co 

NewGermantown, IlunterdonCo 

Eio Grande, Cape May Co 

Greenwich, (.Cumberland Co 

Newark, Essex Co 

KEW YORK. 

Ardenia, Philipstowu,Putnam Co 

Milo, Yates Co 

South Trenton, Oneida Co 

Palermo, Oswego Co 

Minaville, Montgomery Co 

Lockport, Niagara Co 

Fort Edward, Washington Co. . . 

Little Genesee, Allegany Co 

Eochestei', Monroe Co 

Bannerville, Schoharie Co 

Newburgh, Orange Co 

Depauville, Jetlerson Co 

Hudson, Columbia Co 

Near Kingston, on the Hudson, 
Ulster Co. 

Nichols, Tioga Co 

North Argyle, Washington Co . . 
South Hartford, Washington Co. 

Lufialo, Erie Co 

Newark Valley, Tioga Co 

New York, New York Co 

Cooi>erstown, Otsego Co 

Flat bush. Kings Co 

Brooklyn, Kings Co 

Oswego, Oswego Co 

New York, New York Co ... 

Eochester, Monroe Co 

Brooklyn, Kings Co 

Loyden, Lewis Co 

Fa'rmingdale, Queens Co 

Throg's'Neck, Westchester Co.. 

New York, New York Co 

New York, New York Co 

Central Park, New York Co 

North Yolney, Oswego Co 

Sloaiisville, Sclioharie Co 

Gouvcrncui-, St. Lawrence Co .. . 
Brookhaveu. Sufiblk Co 



Cazenovia, Madison Co 

Oneida, Madison Co 

Caldwell, Warren Co ,. .. 

Luzerne, Warren Co 

Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, 
Dutchess Co. 

Waterburgh, Tompkins Co 

TJtica, Oneida Co 

While Plains, Westchester Co. 

North Hammond, St.Lawronce Co 
House villa, Lewis Co 



NORTH OAROLDJ.i. 



Statesville, Iredell Co 

Asheville, Buncombe Co. 

Goldsboro, Wayne Co 

AYarrenton, Warren Co.. 
Asheville, Buncombe Co. 
Oxford, Granville Co 



Brooks, William 

Chandler, W.J.,M.D.. 

Cook, E.R 

Couch, E.D 

Fleming, J 

Hasbrouck, I. E 

Ingram, J.,M. D 

Martindale. I. C 

Noll, A. B.: 

Palmer, Mrs. J. R 

Sheppard, Miss R. C . . . 
Whitehead, W. A 



40 55 
40 44 25 
40 14 
30 -M 



74 46 30 
74 50 



Arden, T. B 

Baker, G. D 

Bairows, Captain S 

Bartlett, E. B 

Bussing, J. W 

Clark, k W 

Cooley, Prof. J. S 

Edwards, U 

Fiske, W. M.L., M. D... 

France, G. S 

Gardiner, J. H 

Haas, H 

Hachenber^G. P., M. D 
Hendricks, D. B 



Howell, Pl. 

Hunt, G. AV 

Ingalsbe, G. M 

Ives, W 

Johnson, Rev. S. W 

Joy, Prof. C. A 

Kecse, G. Pomeroy 

Mack,E.T 

Maillo,LP 

Malcolm, W. S 

Marsh, Mrs. M. M 

Mathews, H. W 

Meeker, J. S 

Meriiam, C. C 

Merritt, John C 

Morris, Miss E 

Morris, Prof. 0. W 

Naval Hospital 

Observatory 

Partrick,J. M 

Potter, G. W , 

Russell, C.H 

Smith, E. A., and 
daughters. 

Soule, Prof W 

Spooner, Dr. S 

Strong, A.M 

Strong, A. M , 

Swallow, Miss 



42 4.) 
39 16 

39 20 

40 45 



40 20 22 

42 30 

43 10 
43 iX, 

42 54 

43 9 
43 13 

42 15 

43 8 

42 38 

41 30 53 

44 10 

42 14 

41 50 

42 

43 18 

43 18 

42 50 



74 45 

74 42 

75 25 
74 10 



74 56 

77 26 
74 15 
79 

73 42 

78 20 
77 51 



74 1 
76 3 

73 46 

74 2 

76 32 

72 29 

73 21 3 
78 56 



4J 43 

42 50 
40 37 
40 40 

43 28 
4 J 42 
43 8 



74 5 
74 54 
74 1 

73 56 

76 30 

74 1 

77 51 



43 32 30 
40 40 40 
40 49 15 
40 50 25 
40 41 38 
40 45 58 



75 24 
73 30 
73 43 45 

73 56 30 

74 1 

73 57 58 



42 41 
44 19 
40 49 

42 55 

43 4 
43 24 



74 31 

75 29 
72 36 

75 46 
75 50 
72 46 



Trowbridge, D 

Williams,"j. Gilbert 

Willis, O. R., and 
daughters. 

Wooster, C. A 

Yale, Walter D 



Allison, T.P 

Aston, Edw. J 

Adams, Prof. E. W . . . 

Foote, H. A 

Hardy, J. F. E., M.D. 
Hicks, W.E.,M.D... 



41 40 50 

42 30 

43 10 
41 5 

44 30 
43 40 



35 30 



77 15 

74 57 
73 40 

75 41 
75 32 



60 30 



35 20 

36 15 

35 30 

36 23 



77 51 

78 15 
82 31 
78 14 



Feet. 
60 



60 

180 



180 
868 
835 
327 



1,500 
525 

1,200 
96 
350 



150 



290 
400 
600 



100 
1, 200 

54 
125 
250 

25 
5-25 



102 
43i 

1G5 
56 
97 



1,260 
500 
300 



800 
518 
273 



2, 250 



TR 

PTR 

BTR 

T 

T 

BPTR 

BPTR 

N 

BTR 

TR 

BPTR 

BTR 



TR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

BT 
BTR 
BTR 

TR 
BTR 

TR 
PTR 

TR 

T 

B T R 

TR 

BTR 

TR 
BPTR 

TR 
BTR 
B P T R 
BTR 
B P T R 
BPTR 

R 

BTR 

N 

T 

BPTR 

BTR 

BPTR 

T 

TR 

BTR 

TR 

BT 
TR 

BPTR 
BPTR 
BTR 

TR 

TR 
T 

BTR 

TR 



TR 
TR 
TR 
BT 
TR 



METEOEOLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 71 

List of meteorological stations and observers, cj-c, for the year 1870— Continued. 



Statiou. 



NOKTH Carolina — Cont'd. 



Attaway Hill, Stanly Co 
Near Raleigh. Wako Co. . 
Chapel Ilili, Orange Co . . 
Kenansville, Duplia Co. . 



BeUefontaine, Logan Co. 

New Lisbon, Columbiana Co. 



Quaker Eidge, Morgan Co 

North Fairtield, Iluron Co 

Bowling Green, Wood Co 

Gambier, Knox Co 

Bethel, Clermont Co 

Steubenville, Jeflerson Co..'.... 

Little Mountain. Geauga Co 

College Hill, Hamilton Co 

Cincinnati, Hamilton Co 

Westerville, Franklin Co 

Springtield, Clark Co 

Oberlm, Loraiuo Co 

Wooster, Wayne Co 

KeUey's Island, Erie Co 

Cleveland. Cuyahoga Co 

Edgerton, Williams Co 

Oxi'ord, Butler Co 

Eipley, Huron Co 

Hillsboro, Highland Co 

Carthageua, Mercer Co 

North Bass Island, Ottawa Co. . . 

Gilmoro, Tuscarawas Co 

Margaretta Township, Erie Co. . 

Jacksonbiirg, Butler Co 

Cincinnati, Hamilton Co 

Salem, Columbiana Co 

Gallipolis, Gallia Cb 

Kenton, Hardin Co 

Adams Mills, Muskingum Co... 

Milnersville, Guernsey Co 

New Birmingham, Guernsey Co. 

Toledo, Lucas Co — 

Mount Auburn, Hamilton Co... 

Williamsport, Pickaway Co 

TJrbaua, Champaign Co 

Wooster, Wayne Co 



OEEGOX. 



Portland, Multnomah Co. 



Eola, PolkCo 

Astoria, Clatsop Co . 



PENNSTLVAN'IA. 



Pittsburg, Alleghany Co 

Tioga, Tioga Co 

Carlisle, Cumberland Co 

Plymouth Meeting, Montgomery 
Co. 

Ashland, Schuylkill Co 

Pocop.son, Chester Co 

Dyberry, Wayno Co 

Hairisburg, Dauphin Co 

Near Pennsville, Clearfield Co . . 

Blooming Grove, Pike Co 

Fallsington, Bucks Co 

Tamaqua, Schuylkill Co 

HazletoD, Luzerne Co...^ 

Mount Joy, Lancaster Co 

Ashland, Schuylkill Co 

Brownsville, Fayotte Co 

Lewisburg, Union (^o 



Name of observer. 



Kron, F. J 

Murdock, W.H.... 
Patrick, Prof. D. S. 
Sprunt, Rev. J. M. . 



Barringer, W 

Benner, J. F., and W. R. 
Smiley. 

Bingman, T. J 

Burras, O 

Clarke. J 

Compton, F.. and others 

Crane, G. W 

Doyle, Joseph B 

Ferriss, E. J 

Hammitt, John W 

Harper, G. W 

Haywood, Prof. 0" 

Hachenberg, G. P., M. D. 

Herrick, L 

Hoover, W 

Huntingdon, G. C . - 

Hyde, G. A 

Knight, A. B 

McFarland, Prof. E. W. . 

Marsh, Mrs. M. M 

Mathews, J. McD 

Muller, Dr. R 

Morton, George E., M. D. 

Moore, S.M 

Neill, Thomas 

Owsley, J. B., M. D 

Phillips, E. C 

Pollock, Eev. J.E 

Eodgers, Alexander P . . 

Smith, C. H., M. D 

Stillwell, C.A 

Thompson, Eev. D 

Thompson, Rev. D 

Trembley, J. B.,M. D... 

White, J.H 

Wilkinson, J. R 

Williams, Prof. M. G 

Winger, M 



Gilliland, S. W., & J. S. 
Ried. ■ 

Pierce, Thomas , 

Wilson, Louis 



.35 25 
36 37 



40 23 
40 45 

40 30 - 

41 8 
41 22 

40 20 30 
39 

40 45 

41 38 
30 19 

39 6 

40 4 



o / 
80 
78 45 



83 45 
80 45 

82 

82 40 

83 40 



41 20 

40 49 

41 35 44 
41 30 

41 32 
39 30 
41 

39 13 

40 28 

41 36 

40 18 

41 27 
39 30 



84 

80 47 

81 16 

70 14 45 
84 29 
83 



1,169 
961 

555 
660 

700 

1,000 

555 



40 54 
39 



40 5 
40 10 



41 38 



Albree, C 

Bentley, E. T . . . 
Cook, Dr. W. H- 
Corson, M. H . . . 



Curtis, A 

Darlington, F 

Day, Theodore 

Egie, Dr. W. H 

Fenton, E 

Grathwohl, John 

Hance, E 

Haworth, J 

Ha worth, J 

Hoffer, J. R., M. D 

Honey man. Rev. W. E.. 

Hubbs, J. Allen 

James, Prof. C. S 



39 37 4 

40 6 

40 48 47 



44 57 
46 11 28 



81 15 

81 55 

82 42 32 
80 40 

83 45 

84 46 
82 30 



84.33 
82 41 53 

81 18 

82 46 
84 17 



82 
81 45 



83 7 30 
83 43 
81 55 37 



123 05 
123 49 32 



39 54 
41 36 

40 16 
41 

41 30 
40 12 
40 45 



40 8 
40 51 
40 
40 58 



Feet. 
850 
385 



600 

800 



831 
950 
965 



1,180 



1,152 



950 
600 
543 
900 



1,000 



TR 

R 

T 
BT 



TR 
BPTE 

TR 

TE 

TR 
BPTR 

TR 
BTR 
BPTR 

TR 
BTR 
BPTE 
BPTE 

TE 

TR 
BTR 
BTR 

TR 
BPTR 
BPTE 
BPTR 
BPTR 



1,015 



45 
500 



75 37 

75 19 

76 15 
78 40 
75 

74 48 
76 



76 32 
76 20 



1,000 



1,400 



30 

700 

1,800 



1,005 



T 
BPTR 

TE 
BTE 

TE 

TR 

TR 
PTE 

TR 

TE 
BTE 
BPTE 

TR 
BTR 

TE 



BPTE 



TE 
BPTR 



TR 

TR 

BTE 

BPTE 

T 

TR 

TR 

BTE 

BTE 

TE 

BTE 

T 

T 

BT 

TE 

TE 

BPTE 



72 METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 

List of meteorological stations and ohservcrs, cjc.,fo)- the year 1870 — Contiuued. 



Station. 



Name of observer. 






Pennsylvania — Cont'd. 

Whitehall, Lehigh Co , 

Plulatleliihia, riiiladelphia Co. 

Newcastle. L:i wvence Co 

"Wcstchr.stci-, Clicster Co 

(rermantiiwii. I'liila:lcliihia Co 
AVilliani.^.|j(irt, Lycuiiiiiij;' Co. .. 
Philadelphia, Philadelphia Co. 

Johnstown, Cambria Co 

Reading, Berks Co 

Greencastle, Franklin Co 

Abingtou, Luzerne Co 

Cannonsburg, Washington Co. 
Mooreland, Montgomery Co. . . 

Eidirata, Lancaster Co 

Salem, Wayne Co 

ConuelLsville, Fayette Co 

Beaver, Beaver Co 

Franklin, Venango Co 

Germautown, Philadelphia Co. 
Fountain Dale. Adams Co 



KHODE LSLAND. 

Newport, Newport Co. . 
Newport, Newport Co. . 



SOUTH C.\EOLINA. 

Aiken, Barnwell Co 

Evergreen, Anderson Co 

Bluffton, Beaulort Co 

Gowdey.sville, Union Co 

Fort Hill, York Co 

TENNESSEE. 

Lookout Mountain Educational 
Institute, Hamilton Co. 

Austin, Wilson Co 

Greeueville, Greene Co 

Lagrange, Fayette Co 

Memphis, Shelby Co 

Trenton, Gibson Co 

Elizabetbtowu, Carter Co 

Knoxvillr, Knox Co 

Claiksville, ^Montgomery Co ... 
McMinnville, Waireu Co 

TE.KAS. 

Clarksville, Eed Eiver Co : 

Houston, Harris Co 

Palestine, Anderson Co 

Bremond, Kobertson Co 

Bluff P. O., Fayette Co 

Near Gilmer, ITpshur Co 

Blue Branch, Burleson Co 

Lavaca, Calhoun Co 

San Antonio, Bexar Co 

Oakland, Texas Co 

Austin, Travis Co 

Blue Branch, Burleson Co 

Sand Fly, Burleson Co 

Clinton,' De Witt Co 

Lockhart, Caldwell Co ., 

UTAH. 

Co.alville, Summit Co 

St. George, Washington Co 

Harrisburg, Washington Co 

Salt Lake City, Salt Lake Co 



Kohler, E 

Kirkpatrick, J. A 

McConnell, E. M 

Martin, Dr. George . . 

Meehan, T 

Moyer, H. C 

Naval Hospital 

Peelor, D 

Raser, J. Heyl 

Rhode, S. W 

Sisson, R 

Smith, Dr. Wm 

Spencer, Miss Anna . 

Spera, W. H 

Stocker, .J. D 

Taylor, John 

Taylor, Rev. R. T 

Tolmau, Rev. M. A . . 

Turner E., C. E 

Walker, S.C 



Barber, W. A . . . . 
CrandelLWm. H. 



Cornish, Rev. J. H 

Earle. E. S 

Guerard, S. St. J., M. D. 

Petty, Chas 

Springs, R. A., jr 



Bancroft, Rev. C. F. P. 



Calhoun, P. B 

Doak, S. S. & W. S. 
Franklin, W. E . . . 

Goldsmith, E 

Grigsby, Wm. T . . . 

Lewis, C. H 

Payne, Prof. J. K . . 
Stewart, Prof. W . . 
Wright, T.P 



Anderson, Rev. J. . 

Baxter, Miss E 

Brooks, N. S 

Combs, B 

Fietsam, J 

Glasco, J. M 

Goode, W. H 

Heaton, L. D 

Pettersen, F 

Simpson, Y 

Van Nostrand, J. . . 

Wade, F. S 

Wade, F.S 

White, Dr. A. C . . . 
Woodiulf, L 



Bullock, T 

Johnson, C 

Lewis, James . 
Phelps, W. W. 



75 23 
75 11 
80 12 
75 3G 



81 30 
75 10 



20 
45 
30 
10 41 

12 
30 

43 
24 



75 57 
77 30 
75 45 
80 10 

75 11 

76 15 
75 30 

79 36 

80 23 
79 51 



39 44 



41 28 22 
41 28 22 



33 32 

34 30 
32 10 
34 50 
35 



18 



71 21 14 
71 21 14 



81 34 

82 50 
81 

81 36 

81 



35 



36 
35 

35 8 
36 

36 25 
36 

3S 29 
35 42 



33 40 
29 50 
31 40 



5 
7 30 



'82 51 
89 15 25 
90 
89 

82 15 
84 

87 13 
85 57 



95 30 
95 35 



3«) 


97 


32 46 


94 51 


30 27 


97 26 


28 30 


96 40 


29 28 


98 24 


29 65 


96 


30 29 


97 46 


30 25 


97 26 



40 
37 11 



111 
1114 



Feet. 
450 
60 



460 



533 

36 

1,200 



850 
250 



565 

coo' 



2,200 



462 

202 



1, .TOO 
990 
481 

1,000 



5') 
480 



180 
950 
600 
17 
56! 



650 
600 



1 5, 600 



TR 
BPTR 

TR 

BPTR 

T 

T 

BTR 

BPTR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

BTR 

BPTR 

PTR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

BTR 

PTR 



TR 
TR 



BTR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

T 



BT I 

I 

TR I 

TR j 

TR 
BPTR 

TR ! 

TR 
B P T Ri 
B P T PJ 
T i 



T 

T 
TR 

R 

TR 
TR 
TR 
TR 
PTR 
TR 
TR 
TR 
TR 
TR 
TR 



METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



73 



List of meteorological stations and observers, tj-c., for the year 1870 — Continued. 



Station. 



Panton, Addison Co 

Newport, Orleans Co 

Lunenburg, Essex Co 

"Woodstock, "rt^indsor Co . 
South Troy, Orleans Co.. 

Eandolpb,'Orange Co 

Middlebury, Addison Co. 
Craftsbury, Orleans Co. . . 
Castloton, Rutland Co . . . 
Charlotte, Chittenden Co 



Mulberry Hill, Isle of Wight Co. 

Vienna, Fairfax Co 

Wytheville, Wythe Co 

Lexington, Rockbridge Co... 

Staunton, Augusta Co 

Mt. Vernon Township, Fairfax Co 

Cottage Home, Surry Co . 

ilechanics^"ille, Fauquier Co. . . 

Kear Lynchburg, Bedford Co . . 

Near Johnsontown, Northamp- 
ton Co. 

Norfolk, Norfolk Co 

Near Markham Station, Fau- 
quier Co. 

Near Lexington, Rockbridge Co 

Hampton, Elizabeth City Co... 

Snowville, Pulaski Co 

Powhatan Hill, King George Co 

Near Fairfax C. H.7 Fairfax Co 

Near Piedmont, Fauquier Co 

"Vienna, Fairfax Co 



WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 



Cathlamet, Wautiakum Co 

Tatoosh Island Light-House, 

Clallam Co. 
Walla- AValla, WaUa-Walla Co. . 
Lake Washington, King Co 



WEST VIRGINIA. 

Romney, Hampshire Co. 

Weston, Lewis Co 

Ashland, Cabell Co 



WISCONSIN. 



Embarrass, Waupaca Co . . . 
Rocky Run, Columbia Co . . 

Madison, Dane Co 

Holland, Sheboygan Co 

New Lisbon, Juneau Co 

Appleton, Outagamie Co. . . 
Milwaukee, Milwaukee Co. 
Manitowoc, Manitowoc Co. 

Waupaca, Waupaca Co 

Plymouth, Sheboygan Co . . 

Mosinee, Marathon Co 

Tunnel City, Monroe Co . . . 

Edgerton, Rock Co 

Wautoma, Waushara Co 

Bayfield, Bayfield Co 

Barabon, Sauk Co 

Bloomflcld, AVabash Co 

Sturgeon Bay, Door Co 



Name of observer. 



Barto, D. C. and M. E . . 

Currier, J. M 

Cutting, H. A 

Doten, H., & L. A. MUler, 

Kennedy, J. C 

Paine, C. S 

Sheldon, H. A 

Wild, Rev. E. P 

Williams, Rev. R. G . . . , 
Wing, Minerva E 



Binford, R 

Bowman, J. B. and G. A 
Brown, Rev. James A .. 

Campbell, Prof. J. L 

Covell, J.C 

Giilingham, C 

Jones, B. W 

Martin, W. A 

Meriwether, C. I 

Moore, C. R 



Naval Hospital . 
Payne, L. E 



Ruflfner, W. H 

.Sherman, J. M 

Stalnaker, J. W., M. D , 

Tayloe, E. T 

Thrift, Miss L. R 

Williams, F 

WilliauLs, H. C , 



McCall, C 

Sampson, Alex. M . 



Simmons, AH 

Wbitworth, Mr. and Mrs 
J. E. 



McDowell, W. H 
Owen, Benjamin . 
Rofle, C.L 



Breed, E. E , 

Curtis, W. W 

Daniells, Prof. W. W- . 

De Lyser, John 

Dungan, J. L 

Foye, Prof. J. C 

Lapham, I. A., LL. D . . . 

Liips, Jacob 

Mead, H. C 

Moeller, G 

O'Donoghoe, J 

PcgIer,'Rov. G 

Shintz, H. J 

Spaulding, J 

Tate, Andrew 

Waite, M. C 

Whiting-, W. H 

Wright, R.M 



44 

44 55 
44 28 
43 36 



43 55 

43 59 

44 40 



36 50 
38 53 39 
36 55 



38 8 
38 40 

37 10 

38 50 
37 IS 
37 22 

36 25 
39 

37 4 
37 5 
37 



38 53 39 

38 50 
38 53 



39 
38 30 



44 51 
43 2G 
43 5 
43 36 

43 45 

44 10 

43 3 

44 7 
44 20 
43 44 
45 

43 45 
42 30 
44 



43 27 1 
45 



74 
72 20 

71 41 

72 35 



73 36 
73 10 

72 30 



76 50 

77 11 

81 4 



78 46 
77 15 
76 46 
78 

79 19 

75 46 

76 25 



79 22 
76 20 



77 21 
78 
77 12 



123 30 
118 52 



88 37 30 

89 19 
89 24 

87 54 
90 

88 35 

87 56 10 

87 45 

89 11 

88 7 

89 30 
91 40 
89 

89 20 



89 45 1 
87'36"'" 



Feet. 



750 
1, 124 

698 



650 

398 

1,100 



100 

400 
!, 400 



1,261 
150 



800 
40 



1,000 
5 

1,800 

60 

500 

900 

400 



45 
930 



1,068 
670 



800 
604 
658 
900 



7.50 

700 

1,700 

1,200 



920 
600 
647 



TR 

TR 
BPTR 

TR 

TR 

TR 
BPTR 

TR 
BPTR 

TR 



TR 

TR 

BTR 

B T R 

BPTR 

BTR 

TR 

TR 

T 

BTR 

BTR 
TR 

TR 
TR 
TR 
TR 
TR 
TR 
BPTR 



T 
TR 



TR 
T 



T 

T 

TR 



TR 

TR 

BPTR 

T 

T 

BT 

BPTR 

BTR 

T 

BTR 

TR 

TR 

TR 

R 

T 

TR 

TR 

TR 



9'o 



DEATHS OF OBSERVERS. 

H. A. .Sheldon, Middlebury, Vermont. 

G. Moeller, Plymouth, Wisconsin, March 14, 1870. 



74 



METEOEOLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS. 



COLLEGES AND OTHER INSTITUTIONS FROM WHICH METEOROLOGICAL 
REGISTERS WERE RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR 1870, INCLUDED IN 
THE PRECEDING LIST. 



State. 



Nova Scotia 

Alabama 

Califoruia 

Conuccticut 

Georgia 

Illinois 

Indiana 

Iowa 

Kansas - 

Maryland 

Massacliusetts . . 

Michigan 

Mississippi 

Missouri 

New Hampshire 
New York 



North Carolina 



Ohio, 



Institution. 



Pennsylvania 
Tennessee . . . 

Texns 

Vermont 

Virginia 

"Wisconsin . . . 



Acadia College 

Greene Springs School 

]^aciflc Metliodist College 

Wesleynn University 

Mercer Univcr.sity 

Lombard University 

Xorth westein University 

City Hospital 

Cornell Colhige 

Iowa State University 

Agricultural College 

State University 

Mount St. Mary's College 

Woodstock College ... ^. 

Amheist College 

vState Lunatic Hospital 

Williams College 

Agricultural College 

Olivet College 

Mississippi College 

St. Louis University 

St. Paul's School 

Columbia College 

Erasmus Hall Academy 

Oneida Conference Seminary 

Kutgers Female College ...'. 

Vassar College 

"Webster Institute 

State University 

Kenyou College 

Miami University 

Mount Auburn "5foung Ladies' Institute . 

Otterbein University 

Theological Seminary 

Urbana University 

Woodward High School 

Beaver Seminary 

Jeflerson College 

Lewisburg University 

East Tennessee University 

Lookout Mountain Educational Institute 

Stewart College 

Tusoulum College 

Institution tor L)eaf and Dumb 

Normal School 

Washington College 

Institution for Deaf, Dumb and Blind... 

Lawrence University 

State University 



Location. 



Wolfville. 

Havana. 

Vacaville. 

MiddletoWB. 

Pcntield. 

Galesburg. 

Evaustou. 

Indianapolis. 

Mount Vernon. 

Iowa City. 

Manhattan. 

Lawrence. 

Emmittsburg. 

Baltimore County. 

Amherst. 

Worcester. 

Williamstown. 

Lansing. 

Olivet. 

Clinton. 

St. Louis. 

Concord. 

New York. 

Elatbush. 

Cazenovia. 

New York. 

Poughkeepsie. 

Kenansville. 

Chapel HUl. 

Gambler. 

0-xford. 

Mount Auburn. 

Westerville. 

Cartliagena. 

Urbana. 

Cincinnati. 

Beaver. 

Cauonsburg. 

Lewisburg. 

Kuoxville. 

Hamilton County. 

Clarksvillo. 

Greene^Tlle. 

Austin. 

Castloton. 

Lexington. 

Staunton. 

Appleton. 

Madison. 



METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 75 

METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL RECEIVED IN ADDITION TO THE REGU- 
LAR OBSERVATIONS. 

Anderson, Bcnj. — Meteorological observations taken during a journey 
of exploration to the interior, from Monrovia, Liberia, during the year 
1868. 

Barnes, T)r. G. W. — Summary of meteorological observations at Grass 
Valley, California, during the months of June, July, August, Septem- 
ber, and October, 1870. 

Barrceta, San Louis Fotosi, Mexico. — Thermometrical curves (centi- 
grade) during the first half of April, 1870. 

Benton, Rev. A. A. — Meteorological register kept at Kanea, Crete, by 
Eev. Mr. Benton, missionary of the Protestant Episcopal Board, during 
the years 1843 and 1811, (part.) 

Berendt, Br. H. — Newspaper cuttings on the climate of Belize, British 
Honduras. 

Board of Commissioners, Central Pari-, New Torlc. — Thirteenth annual 
report, contains general meteorological observations for 1869, and de- 
scrij)tion of observatory. 

Boardman, G. A. — Notes on the storm of October 4th and 5th, 1869, 
at Milltown, Maine. 

Boerner, C. G. — Paths of meteors observed during the auroral dis- 
play of October 24, 1870. 

Bruhns, Br. G. — Meteorologische Beobachtungen, angestellt auf der 
Leipziger Uuiversitiits- Sternwarte im Jahre 1868. 18vo, 30 pages, 1 Table. 

Bidloclc, T. — Summary of temperature observations at Coalville, Utah, 
for the year 1869. 

Carpenter, P. P., Montreal, Canada. — Account of aurora observed 
during September, 1870, at Montreal, by Thomas McGinn, (news^japer 
slip.) 

Cazalis, Br. F. — "Le messager agricole," Montpellier, France, Decem- 
ber, 1867, containing meteorological observations made at Montpellier, 
Departement de Herault. 

Cocll)Hrn,E[. — Notes on British Honduras, (containing meteorological 
records for Belize, rain-fall from 1802 to 1868 inclusive.) 

Crocl-er, Allen, Burlington, Kansas. — Diagram and description of re- 
markable halo seen February 5, 1870. 

Curtis, A. — Meteorological summary for 1869 at Ashland, Schuylkill 
County, Pennsylvania. 

Baguin, M. — Resume des observations meteorologiques faites a I'ob- 
servatoire de Toulouse pendant Tannee 1867-'68, par M. Daguin. 8vo, 
11 pages; 1868-'69, 8vo, 4 pages. 

Baniels, Wm. — Eecord of weather during the month of July, 1870, at 
Peru, Miami County, Indiana. 

Beem, B. — Diagram of thermometrical and barometrical curves, and 
snow and rain -fall, for February, 1869, at Knightstown, Indiana. The 
same for November, 1869, at Mount Hope, Indiana. 



76 METEOEOLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Dodd, Professor C. M. — Eecord of anemometer (Eobinson's) at tlie 
[ndiaua State University, during November, 18G9. 

Dudley, T. — Account of lialo seen at Decatur, Illinois, February 5, 
1870. 

Uwing, C. G. — Meteorological observations at San Francisco, Cali- 
fornia, during part of the year 1870. (Newspaper slips from Daily Alta 
California.) 

Foster, Captain R. W. — Notes made on a passage tbrougb the Straits 
of Magellan, in the steamship City of Pittsburgh, in the year 1852. 

Foster, Capt. E. W., Neic Orleans. — Journal of the voj'age of the steam- 
ship Alabama from New Orleans to Vera Cruz in December, 1850. 

French, J. B., Agent. — Eaiu and snow fall record kept by the W. L. 
C. & W. Manufacturing Company at Laconia, Bristol, and other places 
in New Hampshire, during 1870. 

Gesellschaft Isis, Meissen. — Zusammenstellung der Monats- und Jahres- 
mittel aus den zu Meissen im Jahre 1869. 

Government of Victoria, Australia. — Discussion of the meteorological 
and magnetical observations made at the Flagstaff Observatory, Mel- 
bourne, during the years 1858-'63, by Geo. Neumayer, Ph. D. Mann- 
heim, 1867. 4to, 202 pages. 

Green, H. A. — Eecord of weather at Atco, New Jersey, during 1870. 

Eecord of thermometer at Atco, New Jersey, during November and 
December, 1869. 

Eaidinger, W. Bitter von. — Ueber das Eegenbogen-Phiinomeu am 28. 
Juli, 1861. 8vo, 6 pages. i« 

On the phenomena of light, heat, and sound accompanying the fall 
of meteorites. By W. Eitter von Haidinger. (From Proc. E. S., 
No. 107, 1868.) 8vo, 6 pages. 

Eowland, L., United States Consul. — IMeteorological observations for 
the month of May, 1870, at the Uni\'ersity of Yalencia. (Printed slip.) 

James, I. W. — Summary of observations at Marengo, Illinois, during 
1870. 

Jelinelc, Br. C. — Ueber den jiihrlichen Gang der Temperatur zu Klagen- 
furt, Triest, und Arvavalalja Von Dr. C. Jelinek. 8vo, 39 pages. 

Ueber die tiigliche und jahrliche Periode der relativen Feuchtigkeit 
in Wien. Von Hans Wittek. 8vo, 13 pages, 2 Tables. 

Ueber die jahrliche Vertheilung der Gewittertage, nach den Beobach- 
tungen an den meteorologischen Stationeu in Oesterreich und Ungarn. 
Von Dr. C. Jelinek. 8vo, 9 pages. 

Jewell, J. Grey, M. B., United States Consul Singapore. — Meteorological 
observations at Singapore, British East Indies, during the months of 
May, June, July, August, September, October, November, and Decem- 
ber, 1869. By n. Q. Eandell, colonial surgeon. 

K. K. Centralanstalt fiir Metcorologie und Erdmagnetismus. — Beobach- 
tungen an der K. K. Centralanstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmagnetis- 
mus. 



METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. . 77 

it. K. Sternicarte in Krakau. — Mittlere Temperatur zu Krakau, nacli 
40-jalirigeii Beobaclitiingeu, 1826-1865. Yon Dr. F. Kaiiinski. 4to, 14 
pages, 1 diagram. 

K. K. Stcrmcarte, Frag. — Magnetische nud meteorologische Beobacli- 
tiingeu aiif der K. K. Steruwarte zu Prag, im Jabre 1869. 4to, 170 
pages. 

Knapp, Geo. G. — Meteorological register from January to April, 1869, 
at Billis, Asia. 

KoninUijJc Hederlandsch Meteorologisch Instituuf. — Xederlandsch mete- 
orologiscb Jaarboek voor 1869. Oblong 4to, 262 pages. 

Lander, SaniH, President Davenport Female College. — Meteorological 
observations taken at the Darenport Female College, Lenoir, North 
Carolina. 

Latham, Dr. H. L. — Notes on the climate of Laramie Plains,^Wyo- 
ming Territory. 

Lc 21essager Agricole. Revue des associations et des interets agricoles du 
midi. Puhliesous la direction de ]\L le Dr. F. Cazalis. — Contains monthly 
meteorological tables made at L'lScole Normale de Montpellicr, departe- 
ment de Berault, France. 

Loomis, Professor E. — Comparison of the mean daily range of the 
magnetic declinations with the number of auroras observed each year, 
and the extent of the black spots ou the surface of the sun. By Elias 
Loomis, Yale College. 8vo, 19 pages. 

Macgregor, C. J., M. A. — On the climatology of Stratford, Ontario. 
8vo, 4 pages. 

Magnetic Ohscrvatory, Toronto. — Monthly meteorological registers, 
(printed.) 

3£ojpes, H. H. — Monthly manuscript notes on the weather at Oshtemo, 
Kalamazoo, and other points in Michigan. 

Merriam, C. L. — Meteorological comparisons from records kept at 
Locust Grove, Ley den, Lewis County, New York. 

Meteorologische Centralanstalt, Zurich. — Schweizerische meteorologi- 
sche Beobachtungen. 

Meteorological Institute of Norway. — Norske meteorologisk Aarbog, 

1868, 2den Aargang. Christiania, 1869. Oblong 4to, 213 pages. 
Meteorological Office, London. — Report of the meteorological commit- 
tee of the Eoyal Society for the year ending 31st December, 1869. 8vo, 
58 pages. 

Weather reports from July ], 1868, to June 30, 1870. 3 volumes, 
folio; 6 parts unbound. 

Quarterly weather report of the Meteorological Office, with pressure 
and temperature tables, for the year 1869. Part I, January to March, 

1869. 4to, 73 pages, 36 plates. 

Meteorological Office, Calcutta. — Eeport of the meteorological reporter 
to the government of Bengal. Meteorological abstract for the year 
1869. By H. F. Blandford, meteorological reporter. Large 8vo, 108 
pages. 



78 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

Meteorological Society^ London. — Proceediiift's. 

]\Uller, Rev. Jas. N. — The true directiou aud velocity of the wind ob- 
served from ships while sailing. By Eev. J. K. Miller. 8vo, 18 xiages. 

Morris^ Professor 0. W. — Diagram of temperature, humidity, and 
barometer, at Cooper Union, New York, during the month of June, 
1870. Also summary of meteorological observations for 18GS. 

Moss, G. B. — Monthly manuscript summaries of meteorological obser- 
vations at Belvidere, Illinois. 

Newspaper slips relating to the meteorology of Korthern Illinois. 

MuUer, Dr. B. — Detailed descriptions of various meteorological phe- 
nomena observed at the Theological Seminar}^, Carthagena, Ohio. 
(Appendices to regular monthly reports.) 

Natiirforschende Gescllschaft in Eniden. — Das Gesetz der Wiiide, ab- 
geleitet aus dem Auftreten derselben iiber Nordwest-Europa. Yon Dr. 
M. A. F. Prestel. Mit einer Karte. 4to, 2G images. 

Kelson, S. A. — Newspaper cuttings in reference to certain storms in 
Massachusetts in the year 1870. 

Netcton, E. E. — Eange of thermometer at Mount Carmel, Covington 
County, Mississippi, latitude 31o 34', longitude 90^ 20' 15", during the 
months of January and February, 1870. 

Norslce Mefeorologislce Institiifct. — Temperature de la mer entre 
I'Irlande, I'Ecosse et la Norvege, par II. ]\Iohn, directeur de I'lnstitut 
Meteorologique de Norvege. Christiania;, 1870. 8vo, 10 pages, 5 charts. 

Ohservaioire Impcriale, Bar is. — Atlas meteorologique de I'Observa- 
toire Imperiale, annee 18G7. Large 4to. 

Observatorio Marina do San Fernando. — Anales, secciou e observa- 
ciones meteorolojicas, 1870. 4to, 32 pages. 

Ohservatoire Meteorologique Central de Monfsouris. — Bulletins. 

Observatoire Boyale de Bruxelles. — Annales mdteorologiques, 1869. 
4to, 96 pages. 

Baine, Dr. H. M., Albany, New Yorl: — Newspaper slips giving accounts 
of meteorological phenomena. 

Barvin, Brofessor T. 8. — Meteorological observations for the year 
1869. (Printed slips.) 

Beelor, D. — Eecords kept by self-registering barometer at Johnstown, 
Cambria County, Pennsylvania. Also various notes on meteorological 
phenomena, newspaper slips, «S:c. 

Betterscn, F. — Eecord of weather during the years 1868, 1809, and 1870, 
at San Antonio, Texas. 

Blantamour, Brofessor E. — Eesume meteorologique de Taunee 1868, 
pour G6ueve et le Grand St. Bernard. Geneve, 18G8. 8\'o, 359 pages. 

Brestel, Dr. — Der Sturmwarner und Wetteranzeiger, ein nach wissen- 
schaftlichen Grundsiitzen ausgefilhrtes und durch Beobachtungen und 
Erfahrung bcwahrtes Instrument zu Yorherbestimmung von Sturm und 
Wetter. Yon Dr. M. A. F. Prestel. 8vo, 55 pages, 2 Tables. 

B. Accademia dclle Scienze di Torino. — Bolletino meteorologico ed 



METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 79 

astronomico del Eegio Osservatorio dell' TJiiiversita di Torino. Auno 
ly. 18G9. Oblong 4to, 43 pages. 

Eadcliffe Oh.scrvatorp. — Eesults of astronomical and meteorological 
observations, 18G7. Oxford, 1870. 8vo, 340 pages. 

BiMtcheff, M. — Marche diuine de la temperature a Barnaul et a 
Nertcbiusk ; par M. Eikatclieff. 4to, 23 pages. 

Bivett-Carnac, H. — The state of tlie weather and j)rospects of tlie cot- 
ton crop in the Central Provinces and the Beracs. Eeported to the 
secretary of the Chamber of Commerce, Bombay, by Harry Eivett-Car- 
nac, esq., cotton commissioner. Large 8vo, 15 pages. August, 1870. 

SaivMns, J. G. — Monthly tables of meteorological elements, deduced 
from observations taken at the observatory, Georgetown, Demerara, 
British Guiana, during eleven years, commencing January, 184G. By 
Patrick Sandeman, observer. Small 4to, 275 pages. 

Sawyer^ 27., United States Consul. — Meteorological observations at 
Paramaribo during the year 18G9. (Newspaper slip.) 
• Scottish Meteorological Society. — Journal of the Scottish Meteorological 
Society. 

SJie272)ard, Smiley. — Monthly manuscript reports of the weather at 
Hennepin, Illinois. 

Simmons, A. M. — Photograph showing effect of southwest wind in 
January, at Walla- Walla, W^ashington Territory, in the valley of the 
Upper Columbia. 

Simonin, J. B. — Meteorologie et climat du department de la Muerthe, 
par J. B. Simonin, pere. Nancy, 18G2. 8vo, 38 x^ages. 

Stanley, J. H. S. — Monthly manuscript reports of weather at Houston, 
Texas. . 

Stewart, Professor W. M. — Account of storm at Nashville, Tennessee, 
1870. 

Strong, A. M. — Eegister of meteorological observations at Magnolia, 
Florida, for April, 1870. 

Weather record kept at St. Augustine and Jacksonville, Florida, 
duringthe months of December, 18G9, and January-, February, and March, 
1870, by A. M. Strong and Judge Ellwood, of Iowa. Barometer record at 
Magnolia by Mr. Trott. 

Taylor, Horace. — Weather-table observations taken at Canandaigua, 
New York, during the year 1869. 

Trembley, Dr. J. i?.— Annual meteorological synopsis for 18G9, at 
Toledo, Ohio. 8vo, 18 pages. 

Universita di Torino. — Bolletino meteorologico ed astronomico del 
Eegio Osservatorio dell' Universita di Torino. Anno IV. 18G9. Ob- 
long 4to, 85 pages. Auno III. 18G8. Oblong 4to, 20 pages. 

JJnivcrsitiits-Stermcarte, Leipsic. — Uebersicht der Eesultate aus den 
meteorologischen Beobachtungen, angestellt auf den koniglich-siichsi- 
schen Stationen. 4to, 42 images. 



80 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 

University of Chile. — Observaciones nieteorolojicas, lieclias en el ob- 
servatorio meteorolojica de Santiago, i en el Faro de Valparaiso, en 
el auo de 1866. For Jos6 Vergara. 8vo, 63 pages. 1867. 8vo, 62 
pages. 1868. 8vo, 60 pages. 

Datos recajidos sobre el terremoto i las ajitaciones del mar, del 
13 de Agosto de 1868. Comnnicacion de D. Iguacio Domeyko a la 
facnldad de ciencias fisicas 1 matematicas en sn sesion del 15 de Kovi- 
embre del mismo aiio. Santiago, 1869. Large 8vo, 43 pages. 

Useful Knowledge Society, Macelesfielil. — Meteorological observations 
taken at the Useful Knowledge Society rooms, Macclesfield, England. 
(Printed slips from 1860-'69, inclusive.) 

Vidensl-ahsselsliahet, Christiania. — Storm- Atlas, udgivet med Bestand 
af Videuskabsselskabet, Obristiauia, af H. Mobn. Large folio. 

Webster, W. Prentiss, United States Consul General, Franlcfurt am 
Main. — Xotes on earthquake felt in Germany during the months of 
October and November, 1869. (Through the Department of State.) 

Whitcomb, (?.— Meteorological report for 1869, by Adam Miller, at 
East Prairie, Mississippi Couuty, Missouri. 

Williams, Rev. E. G. — Hourly observations of barometer, psychrome- 
ter, and thermometer, together with observations on magnetic A\ariation. 
(In addition to regular monthly observations on Smithsonian blanks.) 

Wilson, L. — Summary of meteorological observations at Astoria, 
Oregon, for the years 1866-'70. Eain-fall from 1856-'70, inclusive. 
Monthly means. 

Wing, Miss M. E. — Manuscript notes on the weather and meteorolog- 
ical phenomena at West Charlotte, Vermont. 

Wislizenus, Br. A. — Meteorological observations at St.- Louis, Mis- 
souri, during November and December, 1869; together with the records 
of atmospheric electricity, &c., from 1861-69, inclusive. 

Zantedeschi, Professor F. — La meteorologia del globo studiata a diversi 
altitudini da terra. 8vo, 11 pages. 

Zentralnaia Fisiclieslmia Ohservatoria, St. Petersburg. — Eepertorium fiir 
Meteorologie, herausgegeben von der K. Akademie der Wisseuschafteu; 
redigirt von Dr. H. Wild. Band I, Heft I. 4to, 242 pages, 5 plates. 

Vorschliige betreffend die Eeorganisation des meteorologischen Beo- 
bachtungs-Systemes in Eussland. Bericht eiuer Commission der Aka- 
demie. 8vo, 24 pages. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



The Executive Committee of the Board of Eegents respectfully sub- 
mit the following- statement as their report in relation to the funds of 
the Institution, the receipts and expenditures for the year 1870, and the 
estimates for the year 1871. 

Btatement of the fund at the beginning of the year 1871. 

The amount originally received as the bequest of James 
Smithsou, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the 
United States, in accordance with act of Congress of 
August 10, 1816 $515, ICO 00 

The residuary legacy of Smithsou received in 18G5, depos- 
ited in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance 
with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867 20, 210 03 

Total bequest of Smithsou , 541, 379 03 

Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States, 
as authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1807, 
derived from savings of income and increase in value 
of investments 108, 020 37 

Total permanent Smithsou fund in the Treasury of the 
United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable 
semi-annually in gold GoO, 000 00 

In addition to the above there remains of the extra fund 
derived from savings, &c., in Virginia State registered 
G per cent, bonds, at par value, $72,700, now valued at. 48, 000 00 

Total investments 098, 000 00 

Balance on hand January, 1871, of uninvested funds 21, 477 81 

Total of the Smithsou fund, January, 1871 719, 477 81 

Receipts for 1870. 

Interest for 1870 on $650, 000, at 6 per cent, in gold $39, 000 00 

Premium on $39, 000 gold, at llf and lOf i)er cent 4, 363 12 

Cash from a friend of science, in aid of publications 1, 200 00 

Sale of xniblicatioDS 360 52 

Sale of useless materials 64 87 

Kepayment of expenses of explorations 68 40 

Eepayment of freight and postage 432 47 

Total receipts for the year 45, 489 38 

6S 



82 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Expenditures for 1870. 

Bnilding- and furniture - . $4, S4.3 13 

General expenses 11, 810 05 

Publications and researches 15, 873 22 

Museum and exchanges 9, 421 22 

Total expenditures for the year 41, 981 22 

Balance 508 10 



Besides this balance of $508 10, there was a balance of 
$20, 909 05 in bank, at the beginning of 1870, which 
makes the total uninvested and available balance men- 
tioned in the general statement of $21, 477 81 



In addition to the receipts mentioned above, the Institution received 
from and accounted to the Interior Department for $5,024, being part 
of the $10, 000 appropriated by Congress for the i)reservation and care 
during the year ending June 30, 1871, of the specimens collected by 
various exploring expeditions. This sum is not included in the account 
of expenditures. 

Statement in detail of expenditures — 1870. 

BUILDING. 

For reconstruction of parts of building $800 12 

For general repairs of building 3, 852 81 

For furniture and fixtures, cases, carpets, 
stoves, &c 130 20 

$4, 843 13 

GENERAL EXPENSES. 

For meetings of the Board of Eegeuts $178 25 

For lighting the buikling 355 42 

For warming the building 1, 500 22 

For postage 770 98 

For stationery 829 19 

For printing blanks, circulars, receipts, &c 389 13 

For tools, materials for cleaning and inci- 
dentals 478 16 

For salaries of Secretary, clerks, and assist- 
ants 10, 273 30 

14,840 65 



EEPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 83 

PUBLICATIOISiS AND EESEARCHES. 

For publisliing Smithsonian coutributions, 4to. $G, OSG 57 

For pablisliing miscelianeoiis collections, 8vo. . 3, 0G5 37 

For publishing Smithsonian reports, 8vo 283 45 

For meteorology, salaries of clerk and compu- 
ters, and for thermometers and rain-gauges. . 3, 119 00 

For apparatus for researches 249 70 

For explorations, natural history, and arch- 

iEology 1, 414 13 

Lectures 755 00 

$15,873 22 

MUSEUM AND EXCHANGES. 

For literary and scientific exchanges, through 
agencies at Leipsic, London, Paris, Amster- 
dam, &c $4, 105 02 

For museum, salary of assistant secretary and 
assistants in museum, and for incidentals in 
addition to the appropriation from Congress. 5, 008 84 

For purchase of books, periodicals, &c 249, 70 

9 ±24: 22 

Expenditures during 1870 44, 981 22 

Estimated receipts for 1871. 

From interest on Smithson fund, in Treasury of the United 

States .?*30, 000 00 

Probable premium on gold, 10 per cent, on the above 

$39,000 3, 900 00 

Sale of books, &c 1, 000 00 

Total 43, 900 00 

Estimated appropriations for 1871. 

For general expenses $10, 000 00 

For publications, researches, &c 20, 000 00 

For exchanges 5. 000 00 

For purchase of books and apparatus 2. 400 00 

For museum, (additional to congressional appropriation) .. 1,500 00 
For steam heating-apparatus fund 5, 000 00 

Total 43, 900 00 

Besides the above estimated receipts, there is in bank, as before 
stated in the general account, the sum of $21,477 81. 



84 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

The committee have examined six liundred and twenty-one receipted 
vouchers for payments made daring the four quarters of the year 1870. 
In every case the approval of the Secretary of the Institution is given 
on each voucher, and the certificate of an authorized agent of the Insti- 
tution is appended, setting forth that the materials and property and 
services rendered were for the Institution, and to be applied to the pur- 
poses stated in the account. 

The quarterly accoiints- current, bank-book, check-book and ledger 
M'cre also examined and found to be correct, showing a cash balance in 
bank on January 1, 1871, of $21,477 81. 

All oi' which is respectfully submitted. 

PETER TARKEE, 
JOHN MACLEAN, 

Executive Committee. 

January 26, 1871. 



JOUENAL OF PROCEEDINGS 

OF 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS 

OF THE 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Washington, 2lai/ 23, 1870, 

A meeting of the Board of Eegents was lieldtliis eveniug, at the call 
of the Secretary. Present: Hon. L. P. Poland, Hon. L. Trumbull, Hon. 
J. A. Garfield, Hon. S. S. Cox, General Delalield, Hon. Peter Parker, 
Eev. Dr. J. Maclean, and Professor Henry, the Secretary. 

In the absence of the Chancellor, Judge Poland was called to the 
chair. 

The Secretary presented the report of the expenditures on account of 
the Government collections for the year 1SG9; and, on motion of General 
Garfield, it was resolved that the Board of Eegents apply to Congress 
for an appropriation of $10,000 for the care of the Government collec- 
tions during the year 1870. 

Professor Henry stated that the resolution of the board adopted at 
the meeting of February 3, 1870, authorizing him to visit Europe, had 
been entirely unexi)ected to him, as he had received no intimation pre- 
vious to its being offered that it was in contemplation ; that he had con- 
cluded to avail himself of the resolution, and that he was making prepa- 
rations for his departure on the 1st of June ; that he intended to make 
arrangements for the operations of the Institution which were to be 
carried on during his absence ; that he intended to settle all the accounts 
which would be due at the time of his departure ; to deposit checks for 
the salaries accruing during his absence, to be paid on the indorsement 
of Professor Baird ; and also to deposit to the credit of that officer $2,000, 
to pay transportation and incidental expenses ; that he had been much 
gratified with the expressions of kind feeling which had been called 
forth by the announcement of his intended visit to Europe, and the 
offers which he had received from the Cuuard and Bremen lines of 
steamers of a free passage across the ocean. 

The board then adjourned. 



Washington, January IS, 1871. 
In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Eegents of tlie Smith 
sonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual meet- 



86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

ing on the tliird Wednesday in January of each year, the Board met this 
day in tiie Regents' room. 

Ko quorum being present, the Board adjourned to meet on Thursday, 
January 26. 



Washington, January 2G, 1S71. 

A meeting of the Board of Eegentswas held at 7 p. m. in the Eegents' 
room. Present: Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. L. P. Poland, Hon. J. A. Gar- 
field, Hon. M. G. Emery, Hon. P. Parker, Eev. Dr. J. Maclean, and the 
Secretary, Professor Henry. 

In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Hamlin was called to the chair. 

The jninutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

The Secretary mentioned his visit to Euroi^e, and stated the fact that 
it had been highly satisfactory in regard to the foreign correspondents 
of the Institution and the estimation in which the establishment is held 
in the Old World. 

Whereupon, on motion of General Garfield, he was requested at some 
future meeting to give a detailed account of his tour, i)articularly in its 
relation to the operations of the Institution. 

The Secretary gave an account of the operations of the Institution 
since the last meeting of the Board. He stated that in accordance with 
the resolution of the Board adopted at the meeting of FebruarN' 3, ISTO, 
he had effected an insurance of $10,000 on the east wing and range of 
the building, at GG-| i^er cent. ; that Congress has approiiriated $10,000 
for the care of the Government collections for the year ending June 30, 
1871, of which $5,021 has already been drawn j that Congress has also 
appropriated $10,000 toward the completion of the upper hall, which 
sum is to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Inte- 
rior, who has directed the Architect of the Capitol (Mr. E. Clark) to 
oversee the work. 

The Secretary read a letter from the agents of the Anchor Line of 
steamers, offering to carry the Italian exchanges of the Smithsonian 
Institutio!! by their vessels free of charge. 

On motion of General Garfield, the Secretary was directed to present 
the thanks of the Board to the agents of that line, and also to the agents 
of the lines that had offered him a free passage to Europe. 

Dr. Maclean stated tliat the majority of the executive committee had 
decided to alter their report for 18G9 to conform to the mode previously 
adopted. 

The Secretary stated that the business of the Institution had of late 
years so much increased that it was no longer possible to conduct it 
without further assistance. That this was the case would be evident 
from the following statement : 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 87 

The Institution lias now ui^wardvS of 1,800 foreign correspondents con- 
nected witb the exchanges. It has 400 regular meteorological observery. 
It is in communication with almost all the colleges, libraries, literars, 
and scientific societies in America, besides being continually called 
upon by individuals in every j)art of the country for information on 
scientific subjects. It publishes annually upward of a thousand 
printed images, requiring much labor in correcting copy, reading i)roof. 
and attending to the details of printing, binding, &c. Its system of 
international exchanges, exclusive of the correspondence, involves a large 
amount of time and labor in doing up and directing the separate pack- 
ages sent away, and in receiving and distributing those from abroad. 
Several thousand volumes are annually received from foreign and 
domestic exchanges, which are all recorded at the Institution previous 
to being deposited in the Library of Congress. The arrangement of the 
material constantly received from the meteorological observers, supply- 
ing them with blanks and instructions, occasions another draught on 
the labors of the working corps of the Institution. 

The continual repairs and care of the building are another item requir- 
ing supervision, besides the reconstruction of the parts of the edifice 
destroyed by the fire. But above all, the entering and care of the thou- 
sands of specimens which are constantly received, their assortment, and 
distribution of duplicates, is sufiicient to occupy the entire time of a sep- 
arate corps of assistants. It may be said with truth that in no institu- 
tion has more work been done with a smaller number of persons than 
at the Smithsonian. 

The dilficulty in carrying on the operations of the Institution had been 
increased since the last meeting of the Board by the resignation of Mr. 
Ehees, who had held the position of chief clerk for seventeen years. 
He had, however, lately learned that Mr. Ehees might be induced to re- 
turn to his former position, to which the Secretary desired to recall him. 

On motion of General Garfield, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary be allowed to appoint a permanent as- 
sistant as chief clerk, at a salary not to exceed $175 per month. 

General Garfield presented a letter from General Delntield, tendering 
his resignation as a Eegent of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Mr. Poland offered the following resolution, which was adopted unan- 
imously : 

Eesolvcd hy the Board of Bcgcnfs, That they entertain the highest 
appreciation of the services of General Eichard Delafield as a member 
of the Board, and especially as a member of the executive committee, 
and greatly regret the loss caused by his resignation, and desire to ex- 
press to him, ui)on his retirement, their strong i)ersonal regard. 

Dr. Parker presented the report of the executive committee for 1870, 
which was read and accepted. 

The board then adjourned to meet at the call of the Secretary. 



88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

Washington, ILarch 9, 1871. 

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this evening at 7 o'clock. 
Present : Hon. H. Hamlin, Hon. L. P. Poland, Hon. S. S. Cox, Hon. P. 
Parker, General W. T. Sherman, and the Secretary, Professor Henry. 

Judge Poland was called to the chair. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

The Secretary stated that by joint resolution of Congress, Genera 
William T. Sherman had beeu elected a Eegent for the term of six 
years, vice Richard Delafield, resigned. 

On motion of Mr. Hamlin, the vacancy existing in the executive com- 
mittee was filled by the election of General Sherman. 

The Secretary called attention to the fact that the mayor of the city 
of Washington was ex officio a Regent, but that under the new territo- 
rial government the office of mayor ceased, and suggested the propriety 
of action by Congress to substitute the governor of the Territory as 
the ex officio member of the board. 

Messrs. Hamlin and Poland expressed their intention to bring the sub- 
ject before Congress immediately, and anticipated no objection to the 
l)assage of an act providing for the change contemplated. 

The Secretary gave an account of the improvements now being made 
in the building under the appropriation by Congress. The new hall 
would soon be finished, and it was proposed to devote it mainly to eth- 
nology. Mr. B. Waterhouse Hawkins had been empl(>yed to prepare 
illustrations of extinct animals, &c., to decorate the wails. 

The Secretary called attention to the books belonging to James Smitli- 
son, the founder of the Institution, and requested some action in rela- 
tion to the best manner of their preservation. It was thought proper 
to preserve them in a metallic case with plate-glass front, open to the 
view of the public, but not to l)e taken out by any one. 

The Secretary presented his annual report for 1870, which was read 
and accepted. 

The board then adjourned sine die. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 18T0. 



The object of this Appendix is to ilhistrate the operations of the In- 
stitution by reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as 
well as to furnish information of a character suited especially to the 
meteorological observers and other persons interested in the promotion 
of knowiedo'e. 



EFIOGT OX PROF. ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE, 

LATE SUPERINTENDENT OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY. 



By Prof. Joseph Heney. 



Prepared at the request of the Board of Eegcnts of the Smithsonian Instiiution, and also of 
the National Academy of Sciences. 

Alexander Dallas Bache, wliose life and character form the sub- 
ject of the following eulogy, was the son of Eicharcl Bache, one of eight 
children of Sarah, the only daughter of Dr. Benjamin Franklin. His 
mother was Sophia Burret Dallas, daughter of Alexander J. DaHas, and 
sister of George M. Dallas, w^hose names are well knov,ni in the history 
of this country, the former as Secretary of the Treasury, and the latter 
as Yice-President of the United States, and subsequently as minister to 
the Court of St. James. 

The subject of our sketch was born in Philadelphia, on the 19th of 
July, 1806. At an early age he became a pupil of a classical school, 
and was distinguished by an unusual aptitude in the acquisition of 
learning. Shortly before arriving at the age of fifteen he was aj)- 
l)ointed a cadet at the National Military Academy at West Point. 
Here, though the youngest pupil, he soon attained a high grade of 
scholarship, which he maintained during the whole of his course, and 
was finally graduated in 1825, at the head of his class. His merit 
was in this case the more conspicuous, iuasmucli as the class is 
shown to have been one of unusual ability, by having numbered no 
less than four successful candidates for the honor of adoption into 
the Corps of Engineers. It has been mentioned as a solitary' in- 
stance in the history of the Academy, noted for its rigid discipline, 
that young Bache passed through the entire course of four years with- 
out having received a mark of actual demerit, and, what is perhaps not 
less uncommon, without having caded forth the least manifestation of 
envy on the part of his fellow-pui)iis. On the contrary, his superiority 
in scholarship was freely acknowledged by every member of his class, 
while his unassuming manner, friendly demeanor, and fidelity to duty 
secured him the affection as well as the respect of not ouly his fellow- 
liupils, but also of the officers of the institution. It is also remembered 
that his classmates, with instinctive deference to his scrupulous sense 
of propriety, forbore to solicit his participation in any amusement wliich 
in the slightest degree conflicted with the rules of the Academy. So 
far from tins, they commended his course, and took x)r{de to themselves, 



92 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 

as members of Lis class, in liis repntation for higli standing and exem- 
plary conduct. His room-mate, older by several years than he was, and 
by no means noted for regularity or studious habits, constituted himself, 
as it were, his guardian, and sedulously excluded all visitors or other 
interruptions to study during the prescribed hours. For this self- 
imposed service, gravely rendered as essential to the honor of the class, 
he was accustomed jocularly to claim immunity for his own delin- 
quencies or shortcomings. But whatever protection others might 
require on account of youth and inexperience, young Baclie needed no 
guardian to keep him in the line of duty. Impressed beyond his years 
with a sense of the responsibility which \^ould devolve uj^on him as the 
eldest of his mother's family, entertaining a grave appreciation of the 
obligations involved in his edn(;atiou at the i^ational Academy, he 
resolved from the first to exert his energies to the utmost in qualifying 
himself Ibr the duties which he might be called upon to discharge, 
whether in professional or private life. Nor was he uninfluenced in this 
determination by a consciousness that as a descendant of Franklin he 
was, in a certain degree, an object of popular interest, and that on this 
account something more than an ordinary responsibility rested upon 
him. On a mind constituted like his an influence of this kind could 
not but exert a happy effect. 

The character which he established for gentleness of manner and 
evenness of temper was not entirely the result of native amiability, for 
when a child he is said to have been quick-tempered, and at later 
perirods of his life, when suddenly provoked beyond his habitual power 
of endurance, he sometimes gave way to manifestations of temper which 
might have surprised those who only knew him in his usual state of 
calm deportment. These ebullitions were, however, of rare occurrence, 
and always of short duration. His marked characteristic was the con- 
trol which he had acquired over his passions and feelings, and it was 
this which enabled him to suppress all tendency to self-indulgence, to 
pursue with unremitting perseverance the course he had marked out, to 
observe an undeviating regard for truth and justice, and to cherish 
habitually all that would tend to exemplify the kindlier affections of the 
heart. 

Although young Bache was perhaps predisposed, from hereditary 
influence, to form correct habits and adopt high moral princi})les, yet 
these dispositions might have remained dormant had it not been for the 
early training and the watchful care of his noble mother. From his 
earliest days she checked with gentle reproof every indication of child- 
ish revolt against wholesome restraint, and steadily carried out her sys- 
tem of discipline so gently and yet so effectually that it met with 
scarcely any opposition, and left the conviction that she was always in 
the right. Her maternal solicitude did not end with his being placed 
under military rule, but was continued through his whole course by 
means of a ready pen. In the language of one who was permitted to 



EULOGY ON PEOFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 93 

read her letters to her sou while at West Point, " uothing could be more 
admirable than the way in which, amid pleasant gossip and family 
news, she would inspire her sou with high seutiments and encourage him 
to persevering industry." 

As an illustration of his persistency of purpose, it is related that, when 
a recitation of more than common length or difliculty was to be prepared 
for the morrow, it Avas no unusual practice of his to place himself on a 
seat of unstable ecpiilibrium, which by giving way when volition was 
about to lose its jjower recalled his flagging attention to the allotted 
task. 

After graduating he was selected, on account of his scholarship, to 
remain at the Academy as an assistant professor. In this position, 
which gave him an opportunity to review his studies and extend his 
reading, he continued one year ; when, at his own request, he was 
assigned to engineering duty under the late General, then Colonel, Tot- 
ten, at Newport, Ehode Island. Here he remained two years, engaged 
in constructing fortifications, devoting his extra hours to the studj^ of 
physics and chemistry, and, as a recreation, collecting and labeling the 
shells of that region. But tlie most important event of this period of 
his life, and that which, doubtless, contributed in a large degree to his 
future success, was his becoming acquainted with and subsequent 
betrothal to Miss ISTancy Clarke Fowler, the daughter of an old and 
highly-respected citizen of Newiwrt. With the stinted pay of a lieu- 
tenant of engineers, out of which his mother and her younger offspring 
were to be provided for, marriage was not to be thought of, excepting as 
an event in the remote distance. Fortunately as unexpectedly, how- 
ever, a chang'e now took place in his circumstances which enabled him 
to gratify the earnest wish of his heart and to secure to himself a com- 
panion and helpmate who lavished upon him all her affections, and 
through his life ardently devoted all her thoughts and energies to sus- 
tain, assist, and encourage him. The change alluded to, and which 
opened to him an uninterrupted career of usefulness during the whole 
of his active life, was the result of an invitation to the chair of natural 
philosophy and chemistry in the University of Pennsylvania, at Phila- 
delphia. He accepted the position with that unaffected diffidence which 
is the usual concomitant of true but untried merit, though, as might 
have been anticipated, his eventual success was commensurate with the 
industry and ability which had marked his previous progress. Hav- 
ing already had some experience as a teacher, he the more readily gained 
the entire confidence of the authorities of the university and the affec- 
tion of his pupils. He did not, however, rest satisfied with the occu- 
l^ation of teacher, or with merely imparting knowledge obtained by 
the labors of others, but sought to enlarge the bounds of science by 
discoveries of his own. As auxiliary to this, he became a member of 
the Franklin Institute, a society then newly established for the promo- 
tion of the mechanical arts. This society, which still maintains a vig- 



94 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 

orous existence, was well calculated to exhibit bis talents and develop 
bis character. It brouglit him into intimate association with the prin- 
cipal manufacturers, engineers, and artisans of the city, and into 
relations of friendship with a large number of young men destined, in 
more advanced life, to exert an extended influence on public affairs. 
He was appointed chairman of one of the most important of its com- 
mittees, and was chosen as the expounder of the ijrinciples of the insti- 
tute at its public exhibitions. Facilities were thus afibrded him for the 
prosecution of science, which he could not have well commanded in any 
other position. Workshops were thrown open to him, and skillful hands 
yielded him ready assistance in realizing the conceptions of his suggest- 
ive mind. His descent from the illustrious statesman and philosopher 
whose name the institute bears, and who is almost regarded as the tute- 
lar saint of Philadelphia, no doubt contributed to a prepossession in his 
favor, but the influence which he acquired and maintained was due to 
his own learning, industry, ability, and courtesy. To these he owed the 
favor and distinction of having conferred upon him the principal direct- 
orsliip of the scientiflc investigations of the institute, and the opportu- 
nity which it afibrded him of so greatly contributing to the usefulness 
of the society and to the advancement of his own reputation. 

For a full account of the labors in which he was engaged in his con- 
nection with the Franklin Institute we must here be content with refer- 
ring to the volumes of its journal from 1828 to 1835 inclusive. We may 
pause a moment, however, to notice the investigations relating to the 
bursting of steam-boilers, of which he was the principal director. The 
public mind had, at that epoch, been so frequently and iiainfully called 
to this subject that the institute was induced to organize a series of 
systematic researches in regard to it, the importance of which was soon 
recognized by the General Government in the form of an appropriation 
for defraying the attendant expenses. In the ])rosecution of these 
inquiries a large amount of information relative to explosions, and sug- 
gestions as to their causes, was first collected by correspondence, and on 
this was based a series of well-devised eXi[)erimeuts, which were exe- 
cuted with signal address, and the results interpreted with logical dis- 
crimination. The conclusions arrived at were embodied in a series of 
propositions, which, after a lapse of more than thirty years, have not 
been superseded by any others of more practical value. The most fre- 
quent cause of explosion was found to be the gradual heating of the 
boiler beyond its i)Ower of resistance ; and next to this, the sudden gen- 
eration of steam by allowing the water to become too low, and its sub- 
sequent contact with the overheated metal of the sides and other 
portions of the boiler. The generation of gas from the decomposition 
of water as a cause of explosion was disproved, as was also the disper- 
sion of water in the form of s^iray through superheated steam. These 
experiments were not unattended with danger, and required, in their 
execution, no small amount of personal courage. Accidents were immi- 



I 



EULOGY ON PEOFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BAGHR. 95 

nent at almost every stage of the iuvcstigation ; and iu some instances 
explosions were produced wliiqb alarmed the neighborhood. So true 
is it that in the pursuit of science dangers are oftentimes voluntarily 
encountered, exactingno less courage or firmness of nerve than that which 
animates the warrior in the more consi)icuous but scarcely more import- 
ant conflicts of the battle-field. 

The attention of Mr. Bache at this period was not exclusively devoted 
to his labors in connection with the Franklin Institute. He was also a 
member of the American Philosophical Society, and, as such, iu associ- 
ation with Hare, Espy, and others interested in the pursuit of various 
branches of iihysics and chemistry. He erected an observatory in the 
yard of his dwelling, in which, with the aid of his wife and of his for- 
mer pupil, John F. Fraser, he determined with accuracy, for the first 
time in this country, the periods of the daily variations of the magnetic 
needle, and by another series of observations the connection of the fit- 
ful variations of the direction of the magnetic force with the appear- 
ance of the aurora borealis. 

Again, in connection with his friend, Mr. Espy, he made a minute 
survey of a portion of the track of a tornado, which visited l!^ew Bruns- 
wick, iu New Jersey, on the 19th of June, 1835, and from the change of 
place and relative position of the trees and other objects, as left by the 
wind, he succeeded in establishing the fact, in accordance with the 
hypotheses of Mr. Espy, that the effects of the storm Avere due to an 
ascending and progressive column of air, by which all objects within 
the influence of the disturbance, on either side the track, were drawn 
inward, and not due, as had been supposed, to a horizontal rotation at 
the surface, which would tend to throw them outward by centrifugal 
l^rojectiou. In cooperation with Professor Courtenay, he also made a 
series of determinations of the magnetic dip at various places in the 
United States. Indeed, terrestrial magnetism was with him a favorite 
subject, to which he continued to make vakiable contributions at inter- 
vals during his whole life. The x>henomena of heat likewise engaged 
much of his attention, and he was the first to show, contrary to gener- 
ally-received opinion, that the radiation and consequent absorption of 
dark heat is not affected by color. His investigations in this line were 
suddenly brought to a close by an accident, which we may be allowed 
to mention as furnishing an illustration of his self-control and consid- 
erate regard for the feelings of others. After an expenditure of money 
which he could ill aflbrd, and of time withdrawn from the hours due to 
repose, he had i^rocured and arranged on a stand a series of delicate 
instruments intended for a long-meditated experiment on radiant heat. 
During his temporary absence his mother, in hurriedly passing through 
♦^^he apartment, accidentally caught in her dress the support of the 
apparatus and brought the whole to the floor, a mass of mingled frag- 
ments. The author of this disaster was so painfully affected by the 
destruction, of which she had been the unintentional cause, as to be 



06 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 

obliged to leave to his wife the task of breaking- the unwelcome tidings 
to her son. On receiving the information, he stood for a moment, per- 
fectly silent, then hurried out into the open air to conceal his emotion 
and tranquilize his feelings. After a short interval he returned, calm, 
aflectionate, and apparently cheerful, and neither by word nor look gave 
any indication of the pain and disappointment he had so severely expe- 
rienced. 

It should not be forgotten that the labors to which we have alluded 
were performed in hours not devoted to his regular duties as a professor 
in the university. To these he was obliged to give three hours a day, 
besides other time to the preparation of illustrations for his lectures, 
while several evenings of the week were claimed by committees of the 
Franklin Institute aud the Philosophical Society. He was enabled to 
execute these nudtifarious labors by a division of his time into separate 
l)eriods, to each of which was allotted its special occupation. By a 
rigid adherence to this system he was always prompt in his engage- 
ments, was never hurried, and found time, moreover, to attend to the 
claims of friendship and society. He was a zealous aud successful 
teacher, to whom the imparting of knowledge was a source of unalloyed 
and inexhaustible pleasure. His pnpils could not fail to be favorably 
impressed by his enthusiasm and induenced by his kindness. He 
always manifested an interest not only in their proficiency in study, but 
also in their general welfare. They regarded him with afiection as 
well as respect, and while in other class-rooms of the university disor- 
der aud insubordination occasionally annoyed the teachers, nothing was 
to be witnessed in his, but earnest attention aud gentlemanly deport- 
ment. 

His success as an instructor affords a striking confutation of the fal- 
lacy which has not unfrequently been advocated in certain (punters, that 
men devoted to original research and imbued with habits of mind 
which it generates are not well qualified for the office of instructors. 
So far is the proposition from having any fouudation in fact, that it is 
precisely among the most celebrated explorers of science of the present 
century that the most successfal and noted teachers have been found. 
In i^roof of this the illustrious names of Priestley, I)e Caudolle, Dalton, 
Davy, Oersted, Faraday, and a host of others, immediately occur. At 
the same time it cannot be denied that it is questionable economy to 
devote to the drudgery of drilling youth in the elements of knowledge, 
a mind well qualified by nature aud training to enlarge the boundaries 
of thought aud increase the stores of knowledge. But it is equally 
clear that the practice of teaching is, to a certain extent, not incompati- 
ble with the leisure and concentration of mind requisite for original 
research; that the latter must, iu fact, act beneficially alike on the 
instructor and instructed ; the former gaining in clearness of concep- 
tion in the appreciation of the nevv^ truths he is unfolding by imparting 
a knowledge of their character to others, while the latter catch, by sym- 



EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 97 

pathy, a portion of the enthusiasm of the master, and are stimukited to 
exertions of which they wouhl otherwise be incapable. 

In 1836, when Professor Bache had just attained the thirtieth year of 
his age, his attention and energies received a new direction, constitut- 
ing, as it were, a new epoch in his life. This change was caused by a 
movement on the part of the trustees of the Girard College for Orphans, 
an institution munificently endowed by a benevolent citizen of Phila- 
delphia. Preparatory to organizing this institution it was thought 
desirable to select a suitable person as president, and to send him abroad 
to study the systems of education and methods of instruction and disci- 
pline adopted in Europe. The eyes of the entire community were with one 
accord directed to our professor as the proper man for this office. He 
had, however, become enamored with the jjursuit of science, and it was 
with difficulty that he could briug himself to regard with favor a prop- 
osition which might tend to separate him from this favorite object. 
The consideration of a more extended field of usefulness at length pre- 
vailed, and he accepted, though not without some lingering regret, the 
l)roftered position. No American ever visited Europe under more favora- 
ble circumstances for becoming intimately acquainted with its scientific 
and literary institutions. His published researches had given him a 
European reputation, and afforded him that ready access to the intelli- 
gent and infiuential classes of society which is denied the traveler 
whose only recommendation is the possession of wealth. It cannot be 
doubted that he was also favored in this respect by the admiration 
which in Europe still attaches to the name of his renowned ancestor.* 
He was everywhere received with marked attention, and from his moral 
and intellectual qualities did not fail to sustain the prepossessions in his 
favor and to secure the friendship aiid esteem of the most distin- 
guished savants of the Old World. 

He remained in Europe two years, and on his return embodied the 
results of his researches on edncation in his report to the trustees of 
Girard College. This report forms a large octavo volume, and is an 
almost exhaustive exposition of the scholastic systems and methods of 
instruction in use at the time in England, France, Prussia, Austria, 
Switzerland, and Italy. It has done more, perhaps, to improve the 
theory and art of education in this country than any other work ever 
published ; and it has effected this not alone by the statement of facts 
derived fror># observation, but also by the inferences and suggestions 

'The force of this sentiment was quaintly but strongly marked by a slight incident 
Avhich occurred when he was in Germany. An elderly savant, on being introduced, 
clasped him in his arms, saluted hira with a kiss on either cheek, and greeted him with 
the exclamation, "Meiu Gott, now let me die, since I have lived to see with mine own 
eyes an emanation of the great Franklin!" This comiilimeut was perhaps more flat- 
tering than agreeable, since the old professor in question was wont, after the fashion 
of his day, to stimulate his lagging faculties by freqirent and profuse extractions 
from the snuff-box. 

7S 



98 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 

with wliicli it abounds. The accounts which are given of the different 
schools of Europe are founded on personal inspection ; the results being 
noted down at the time with the writer's habitual regard to accuracy. 

After completing his report he was prepared to commence the organ- 
ization of the Girard College, but the trustees, partly on account of the 
unfinished condition of the building, and partly from a delay in the ad- 
justment of the funds of the endowment, were not disposed to put the 
institution into immediate operation. Tn the mean time Professor 
Bache, desirous of rendering the information he had acquired of 
immediate practical use, offered his services gratuitously to the muni- 
cipal authorities of Philadelphia, to organize, on an improved basis, a 
system of public education for that city. This offer was gladly accepted, 
and he commenced the work with his usual energy and with the cordial 
support of the directors and teachers of the common schools. At the 
end of the year, finding that the trustees of the college were still unpre- 
pared to open tbe institution, he relinquished the salary, but retained 
the office of president, and devoted his time mainly to the organization 
of the schools. He was now, however, induced to accept from the city, 
as the sole and necessary means of his support, a salary much less than 
the one he had relinquished. The result of his labors in regard to the 
schools was the establishment of the best system of combined free educa- 
tion which had, at that time, been ado])ted in this country. It has since 
generally been regarded as a model, and has been introduced as such 
in different cities of the Union. 

In 1842, having completed the organization of the schools, and Girard 
College still remaining in a stationary condition, he resigned all con- 
nection with it, and, yielding to the solicitations of the trustees of the 
university, returned to his former chair of natural philosophy and chem- 
istry, in order that he might resume the cultivation of science. Not that 
it is to be inferred that in his devotion to the advancement of education 
he had relinquished or deferred the scientific pursuits to wliich the habit 
of his mind and the bent of his genius continually im[)elled him, for 
during his travels in Europe he had been careful to provide himself with 
a set of portable instruments of physical research, and. as a relief from 
the labors imposed by the special object of his mission, he instituted a 
connected series of observations at prominent points on the Continent 
and in Great Britain, relative to the dij) and intensity of terrestrial mag- 
netism. These observations were made with the view of ascertaining 
the relative direction and strength of the magnetic force in Europe and 
America, by the comparison of parallel series of observations in the two 
countries with the same instruments. They also served, in most in- 
stances, to settle with greater precision than had previously been 
attained the relative magnetic condition of the points at which they 
were made. 

Though the organization of the schools of such a city as Philadelphia 
might seem sufficient to absorb all his energy and self devotion, yet* 



EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 99 

even in the midst of tliis labor we find our late colleague actively coop- 
erating in tbe great. enterprise of the British Association to determine 
by contemporaneous observations, at widely separated points, tbe fluctu- 
ations of tbe magnetic and meteorological elements of the globe. This 
cooperation, in which no doubt a feeling of national pride mingled itself 
with bis ardor for the advancement of science, consisted primarily in the 
establishment of an observatory, to which the trustees of Girard Col- 
lege contributed a full series of instruments, combining all the latest 
improvements, and which was supported by the American Philosoph- 
ical Society, and a number of liberal and intelligent individuals. The 
observations which were here continued at short intervals, both by day 
and night, for five years, form a rich mine of statistics, from which, 
until within the last few years of his life, the professor drew a highly 
interesting series of results, without exhausting the material. In addi- 
tion to these observations, he made during his summer vacations a 
magnetic survey of Pennylvania. 

He was not destined to remain long in his old position in the uni- 
versity. Before he had become fairly settled in it and had renewed 
his familiarity with its duties, he was called in November, 1843, on 
the occasion of the death of Mr. Hassler, Superintendent of the United 
States Coast Survey, to fill the important sphere of public duty thus 
rendered vacant. His appointment to this position was first suggested 
by the members of the American Pliilosophical Society, and the nomi- 
nation fully concurred in by the principal scientitic and literary institu- 
tions of the country. In this movement he himself took no part, and 
indeed regarded the position as one not to be coveted; for while it 
opened a wide field for the exercise of talent and the acquisition of an 
enviable reputation, it involved responsibilities and presented diifi- 
culties of the gravest character. Professor Bache was not one of those 
who, abounding in self-confidence, imagine themselves equal to every 
exigency, or who seek the distinctions and emoluments of office without 
any regard to the services to be rendered or the duties to be discharged. 
On the contrary, though early and continued success must have tended 
to increase his self-esteem, each new position to which he was called 
was entered upon with feelings of solicitude rather than of exultation. 
He rightly judged that the proper moment for self-congratulation is not 
at the beginning of an arduous and precarious enterprise, but at the 
time of its full and successful accomplishment. Nor can it be necessary 
to add that this characteristic contributed largely to his success. In 
civil service as in the camp, the leader to whom all look with confidence 
is not he who, with blind and arrogant self-reliance, disdains caution as 
unworthy of courage, but he who, sensitively alive to the dangers to 
be encountered, exerts every faculty in calling to his aid every resource 
which may tend to secure victory or facilitate retreat. 

With whatever misgivings Professor Bache may have undertaken 
the task to which he was assigned, it may be truly said that no living 



100 EULOGY ON PKOFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 

man was so well qualified as himself to secure the results which the 
uiation aud its commercial interests demanded. .His education and 
training at West Point, his skill in original investigations, his thorough 
familiarity with the jirinciples of applied science, his knowledge of the 
world, and his gentlemanly deportment, were all in a greater or less de- 
gree essential elements in the successful prosecution of the survey. It 
would appear as if the training and acquisition of every j)eriod of his 
life, and the development of every trait of his character, had been 
especially ordained to fit him in every respect to overcome the difficul- 
ties of this i^osition. Besides the qualifications we have enumerated, 
he possessed rare executive ability, which enabled him to govern and 
guide the diverse elements of the vast undertaking with consummate 
tact and skill. Quick to perceive and acknowledge merit in others, 
he rapidly gathered around him a corps of men eminently well quali- 
fied for the execution of the tasks to which he severally assigned them. 
The Coast Survey had been recommended to Congress by President 
Jefferson as early as 1807, but it was not until ten years afterward that 
the work was actually commenced, under the superintendence of Pro- 
fessor Hassler, an eminent Swiss engineer, whose plans had been pre- 
viously sanctioned by the American Philosophical Society. Though the 
fundamental features of the survey had been established on the most 
approved scientific principles yet so frequent were the changes in the 
policy of the Government, and so limited were the appropriations, that, 
even up to the time of Professor Bache's appointment, in 1813, little more 
than a beginning had been made. The survey, so far as accomplished, 
extended only from l^ew Yoyk Harbor to Point Judith, on the east coast, 
and southward to Cape Henlopen. The new Superintendent saw the 
necessity of greatlj' enlarging the plan, so as to embrace a much broader 
field of simultaneous labor than it had previously included. He divided 
the whole coast line into sections, and organized, under separate parties, 
the essential operations of the survey simultaneously in each. He com- 
menced the exploration of the Gulf Stream, and at the same time pro- 
jected a series of observations on the tides, on the magnetism of the earth, 
and the direction of the winds at diii'erent seasons of the year. He 
also instituted a succession of researches in regard to the bottom of the 
ocean within soundings, and the forms of animal life which are found 
there, thus oti'ering new and unexpected indications to the navigator. 
He i)ressed into service, for the determination of the longitude, the elec- 
tric telegraph; for the ready reproduction of charts, photography; and 
for multiplying copper-i)late engravings, the new art of electrotyping. 
In planning and directing the execution of these varied improvements, 
which exacted so much comprehensiveness in design and minuteness in 
detail, Professor Bache was entirely successful. He was equally for- 
tunate, principally through the moral influence of his character, in 
impressing upon the Government, and especially upon Congress, a more 
just estimate of what such a survey required for its maintenance and 



EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. IQl 

creditable prosecution. Not only was a largely-increased appropriation 
needed to carry out this more comprehensive plan, but also to meet the 
expenses consequent upon the extension of the shore-line itself. Our 
sea-coast; when the survey commenced, already exceeded in length that 
of any other civilized nation, but, in 1845, it was still more extended by 
the annexation of Texas, and again, in 1848, by our acquisitions on the 
Pacific. Professor Bache was in the habit of answering the question 
often propounded to him by members of Congress, " When will this 
survey be completed ?" by asking, " When will you cease annexiug new 
territory f a reply not less significant at the present day than when it 
was first given, and which may continue long to be applicable under 
the expansive tendencies of our national j)olicy. 

When Professor Bache took charge of the survey, it was still almost 
in its incipient stage, subjected to misapprehension, assailed by unjust 
prejudice, and liable, during any session of Congress, to be suspended 
or abolished. When he died, it had conquered prejudice, silenced oppo- 
sition, and become established on a firm foundation as one of the perma- 
nent bureaus of the executive Government. The importance of the 
work, which was always highly appreciated by the mariner, became 
strikingly obvious to the general public through the service which it 
rendered during the late war, in furnishing accurate charts and sailing 
directions for the guidance of our squadrons along the southern coast. 
iSTor was this alone ; an active participation was also borne by the officers 
of the survey in the attack of the United States oSTavy on Sumter, Port 
Koyal, Fort Fisher, Mobile, New Orleans, and other strongholds, while 
constant aid was rendered by them in the navigation of the inlets and 
channels, and in the avoidance of hidden rocks or shoals with which 
none could be more minutely acquainted. Though the value of the sur- 
vey was signally conspicuous on these occasions, it needs but little 
reflection to be convinced of its essential connection with the general 
prosperity of the country. Whatever diminishes the danger of depart- 
ure from or an approach to our shores facilitates commerce, and thus 
renders more valuable the products of our industry, even in portions 
of our land most remote from the sea-board. But the survey should not 
be viewed alone iu its economical relations, since, as an enlightened and 
liberal i^eople, we owe it to the great community of nations and the 
cause of humanity to supply the world Avith accurate charts of our pre- 
carious coast, as well as to furnish it with all the other aids to safer 
navigation which the science and experience of the age may devise. 

Professor Bache, with his enlightened appreciation of the value of 
abstract science, kept constantly in view the various problems relative 
to the physics of the globe, which are directly or even incidentally con- 
nected with the survey of the coast, and ever cherished the hope of 
being i>ermitted to complete his labors by their solution. Among these 
was a new determination of the magnitude and form of the earth, and 
the variations in the intensity of terrestrial gravity at various points on 



102 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 

the coutiuent of North America ; the discussion of the general theory 
of the tides; the magnetic condition of the continent; and the imjirove- 
ment of the general map of the United States, by determining its rela- 
tion to the coast line, and the precise geographical positions of the most 
important points in the interior. Though his hopes in regard to these 
problems were not destined to be realized by himself, fortunately for 
the cause of science they have been left in charge of a successor in the 
person of his ardent friend and collaborator. Professor Peirce, to whose 
genius and industry we may confidently look for that full exposition of 
the work which, while it entitles him to the highest approbation of 
the scientific world, will render ample justice to the labors and sagacity 
of his lamented predecessor. 

Besides having charge of the Coast Survey, Professor Bache was 
Superintendent of Weights and Measures, and in the exercise of this 
function directed a series of investigations relative to the collection 
of excise duties on distilled spirits, and likewise superintended the 
construction of a large number of sels of standard weights and meas- 
ures for distribution among the several States of the Union. He 
was also appointed one of a commission to examine into the condi- 
tion of the light-house system of this country, and to report upon any 
improvements calculated to render it more efijcient. In the investiga- 
tions pertaining to this subject, involving, as they do, a knowledge of a 
wide range of applied science, he took a lively interest, and rendered 
important ser\'ice in the organization of the admirable system which was 
adopted and still remains in operation. This conimissiou of investiga- 
tion was afterward merged in the present Light-House Board, of which 
he continued a member until the time of his death. 

In 184G he had been named in the act of incorporation as one of the 
Eegents of the Smithsonian Institution, and by successive reelection 
was continued by Congress in this office until his death, a j)eriod of 
nearly twenty years. To say that he assisted in shaping the policy of 
the establishment would not be etiough. It was almost exclusively 
through his predominating intiuence that the policy which has given 
the institution its present celebrity was, after much opposition, finally 
adopted. The object of the donation, it will be remembered, had been 
expressed in terms so concise that its import could scarcely be at once 
appreciated by the general public, though to the cultivators of science, 
to which class Smithson himself belonged, the language employed failed 
not to convey clear and precise ideas. Out of this state of things it is 
not surprising that difference of opinion should arise respecting the 
proper means to be adopted to realize the intentions of the founder of 
the institution. Professor Bache with j)ersistent firmness, tempered by 
his usual moderation, advocated the appropriation of the proceeds of 
the funds principally to the plan set forth in the first report of the Sec- 
retary, namely, of encouraging and supporting original research in the 
different branches of science. Unfortunately this policy could only be 



EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 103 

partially adopted, on account of tbe restrictions of the enactment of Con- 
gress, by which provision was to be made for certain specified objects. 
He strenuously opposed the contemplated expenditure of a most dispro- 
portionate sum in the erection and maintenance of a costly edifice ; but 
failing to prevent this, he introduced the resolution adopted by the 
board as a compromise, whereby tlie mischief which he could not wliolly 
avert might at least be lessened. This resolution provided that the 
time of the erection of the building should be extended over several years, 
while the fund appropriated for the purpose, being in tbe mean time 
invested in a safe and productive manner, would serve in some degree 
to counterbalance the effect of the great and unnecessary outlay which 
had been resolved on. It would be diflicult for the secretary, however 
unwilling to intrude anything i^ersoual on this occasion, to forbear men- 
tioning that it was entirely due to the persuasive influence of the pro- 
fe>-ssor that he was induced, almost against his own better judgment, to 
leave the quiet pursuit of science and the congenial employment of 
college instruction to assume the laborious and responsible duties of the 
office to which, through the partiality of friendship, he had been called. 
Nor would it be possible for him to abstain from acknowledging with 
heart-felt emotion that he was from first to last supported and sus- 
tained in his difficult position by the fraternal sympathy, the pru- 
dent counsel, and the unwavering friendship of the lamented deceased. 

His demeanor in the board was quiet and unobtrusive, and his opinions 
sought no support in elaborated or premeditated argument; but when a 
topic likely to lead to difficulty in discussion was introduced, he seldom 
failed, with that admirable tact for which he was always noted, to dis- 
pose of it by some suggestion so judicious and appropriate as to secure 
ready acquiescence and harmonious action. The loss of such a man in 
the councils of the Institution, when we consider the characteristics 
which it has been our aim to portray, must, indeed, be regarded as little 
less than irreparable. 

As a vice-president of the United States Sanitary Commission his 
influence was felt in selecting proper agents, and suggesting efficient 
means for collecting and distributing the liberal contributions offered 
for ameliorating the condition of our soldiers during the war. But the 
services which he rendered the Government during the recent struggle 
were not confined to this agency, or to the immediate operations of the 
Coast Survey. He was called into consultations to discuss plans of 
attack on the ]3art of the Navy, and for its cooperation with the Army. 
He acted also as a member of a commission to which various projects, 
professing to improve the art of war, were referred, and in this capacity 
it is not too much to say that his judicious counsel contributed to save 
the Government millions of dollars by preventing the adoption of plausi- 
ble though impracticable propositions from which nothing but failure 
and loss could have resulted. 

One of the last acts of his life was an exemplification of the devoted 



104 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 

affection wliich he had always borne to his native city, whither it was his 
cherished intention to return when he shouUl be at last released from offi- 
cial duty. At the request of the governor of Pennsylvania, although over- 
whelmed with other iniblic labors, he i)Ianned lines of defenses for Philadel- 
phia, and to a certain extent personally superintended their construction. 
Unaccustomed for many years to direct exposure to the sun, this work 
proved too much for his physical strength and brought on the tirst indica- 
tions of that malady which terminated his life. Though apparently of 
a vigorous constitution, and capable, under the exciteiteut of official 
life, of bearing an unusual amount of bodily fatigue, yet he was subject 
at intervals to "sick headaches," a disease which seems to have been 
hereditary, and which perhaps conspired with other causes in termi- 
nating his useful and distinguished career. Previous to the war he had 
spent the warmer part of each summer in a tent, at some point of the 
primary triangulation of the survey, whence he directed the various 
parties in the field by correspondence ; and as the point was usually at 
the top of a mountain, or at some elevated position, from which other 
stations of the survey could be seen, he did not want for invigorating 
air. With this, and the exercise of measuring angles he laid in a store of 
health sufficient to enable him to carry on without interruption the 
arduous duties of the remaining portion of the year. But after the com- 
mencement of the war his presence was continually required in Wash- 
ington to give advice and information as to militarj^ and naval opera- 
tions, and to attend the meetings of the scientific commission to which 
we have previously referred. He was, therefore, no longer able to avail 
himself of the recuperating influence of mountain air, and in view of this 
his valuable life may be said to have been one of the sacrifices offered 
for the preservation of the Union. The first indications of the insidious 
(Usease which gradually sapped the citadel of life were numbness in the 
fingers of his right hand, and, on one occasion, for a short time only, 
loss of memory. Though these symptoms gave him some uneasiness, 
they did not diminish his exertions in the line of his duty. Other symp- 
toms, however, exhibited themselves, which, though awaking anxiety, 
did not much alarm his friends, until he was suddenly deprived, in a con- 
siderable degree, of the power of locomotion and of the expression of 
ideas ; the result, it was supposed, of a softening of the brain. Put though 
the xjowerof expression was paralyzed, his memory appeared to retain all 
the impressions of the past, and he evidently took much pleasure in hav- 
ing recalled to him scenes and events of years gone by. For several months 
he was very anxious as to the business of the Coast Survey, and it was 
with difficulty he could be restrained from resuming in full the duties of 
his office ; but as the malady increased his perception of external objects 
diminished. He took less and less interest in passing events, and finally 
seemed to withdraw his attention from the exterior world, with which 
he almost ceased thenceforth to hold any active communication. It was 
hoi)ed that a voyage to Europe, through the excitements of shipboard 



EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 105 

and tlie revival of old associations, would be of service to bim ; but, uot- 
withstaudiug- au occasional manifestation of bis wonted spirit of social 
and intellectual enjoyment at tbe encounter of a friend of former times 
or distingnisbed associate in tbe walks of science, be returned from a 
sojourn abroad of eigbteen montbs witbout baving experienced any per- 
manent abatement in tbe progress of bis malady. He lingered for a sbort 
time longer, and finally resigned bis breatb at Newport, Ebode Island, 
on tbe 17tb of February, 18G7, in tbe sixty-first year of bis age. 

It would be impossible to name an American distinguisbed on purely 
scientific grounds to wbom tbe enligbtoned sentiment of bis own country- 
men and of foieign nations bas awarded more empbatic marks of ad- 
niiratiou and esteem. Tbe degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on 
bim by tbe principal universities of tbis country, and few of our leading 
societies were willing to forego tbe bonor of numbering bim among their 
associates. He was elected in succession president of tbe American 
Pbilosopbical Society, of tbe American Association for tlie Advancement 
of Science, and, of tbe National Academy of Sciences establisbed 
by Congress. Nor were foreigners less forward iu acknowledging 
bis merit. He was a member of the Eoyal Society of London, 
of tbe Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburg, of tbe Insti- 
tute of France, the Royal Society of Edinburgh, the lioyal and Impe- 
rial Geographical Society of Vienna, tbe Royal Academy of Turin, the 
Mathematical Society of Hamburg, tbe Academy of Sciences in the 
Institute of Bologna, tbe Royal Astronomical Society of London, and 
of the Royal Irish Academy of Dublin. In addition to these testimonies 
of appreciation, several medals were awarded to him by foreign govern- 
ments for bis distinguisbed services iu the Coast Survey and in the 
cause of science generally. 

The life we have here sketched is eminently suggestive, both from a 
philosophical and a iiractical point of view. It presents an unbroken 
series of successful efforts, with no iuterruptioMS in its sustained and 
constantly ascending course; all parts follow each other in harmonious 
continuity; and not only is each stage of its progress in advance of tbe 
one which preceded it, but it famishes the means of education for that 
which succeeded. It is not merely curiosity, laudable as that might be, 
but a sense of tbe importance of tbe inquiry, which prompts us to ask, 
What were the mental and moral characteristics of tbe mind which pro- 
duced such results? And we say intentionally', tbe mind ichich produced 
these results, for although it be true that accident bas in many cases a 
determining influence on tbe fortunes of an individual, it will be clear 
from what precedes, or we shall have greatly failed in tbe task which 
we proposed to ourselves, that tbe element of casualty had but little to do 
with the success which ci"owned tbe life to which tbe question at present 
relates. 

From long acquaintance with bim and critical study of the events of 



106 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 

liis life, and the distinctive manifestations of his moral and intellectual 
nature, we venture, tliougli not without hesitation, to present the fol- 
lowing analysis of the character of one who has performed so conspicu- 
ous a part, and in whose memory so many are deeply interested. 

Alexander Dallas Bache possessed, or we may perhaps say originally 
inherited, a mind of strong general powers, with no faculty in excess or 
in deficiency, but, as a Avhole, capable of unusual expansion or develop- 
ment in any direction which early training or the education of life might 
determine. He also possessed strong passions, which, instead of exert- 
ing an unfavorable effect on his character by their indulgence, became, 
under the restraining influence to which they were in due season sub- 
jected, a reserved energy, as it were, ready to manifest itself spontaneously 
and at any time in the vindication of truth and justice. He was like- 
wise endowed with a power of tcill which, controlling all his faculties 
and propensities, rendered them subservient to those fixed purposes 
which had once received the sanction of his deliberate judgment. Em- 
inent also among his characteristics, and perhaps most conspicuous of 
all, was the social element of refined humanity, a regard for his fellow- 
man, which craved as an essential want of his nature fraternal sympa- 
thy, not only with those within the wide circle of his daily associations, 
but with those from whom he could expect no reciprocation of the sen- 
timent, the entire brotherhood of maidcind. These characteristics, with 
a nice perception of right and a conscience always ready to enforce its 
mandates, are, we think, sufficient to explain the remarkable career we 
have described. 

They were perhaps indicated by himself, though with an admission 
not to be accepted without some reserve, in a conversation with the writer 
of this sketch in reference to his entrance at West Point. " I knew," he 
said, '"that I had nothing like genius, but I thought I was capable by 
hard study of accomplishing something, and I resolved to do my best, 
and if possible to gain the approbation of the teachers, and, above all, 
to make myself loved and respected bj' my classmates." 

To illustrate the progressive development of the individual traits of 
his character, we may be allowed to dwell for a moment on a few analyt- 
ical details. The early i^eriod of his life, including that which pre- 
ceded his first call to Phihidelphia, was almost wholly devoted to tlie 
imin*ovenient of the mechanical, or the "doing" faculties of his mind, 
and but little attention was given to invention, or the exercise of ori- 
ginal thought. His final examination at the Academy, i^erfect as it was 
in its kind, only exhibited his capacity for the acquisition of knowledge 
not the power to originate or apply it. When his efforts were first 
turned in the latter direction, he evinced, as I well remember, no espe- 
cial aptitude for it that would indicate future success ; but in a short 
time, and under the stimulus of the associations into which he was 
thiowm in Pliiladolphia, the faculties of investigation and of generaliza- 
tion were rapidly developed, and had he not been partially turned aside 



EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 107 

from such i^iirsuits, I doubt not but that lie would liave still more liigbly 
distinguished himself in the line of experimental research. Again, the 
change in the circumstances and relations of his life produced by his 
election to the i)residency of Girard College introduced him to a famil- 
iarity with an entirely new class of ideas, which served to exercise and 
expand another faculty of his mind, that, namely, which observes and 
appreciates moral truths, though without impairing his aptitude for 
physical research. In like manner, his foreign mission with reference 
to popular education, by bringing him into intimate and friendly associa- 
tion with minds of the first order in the principal cities of Europe, afforded 
him an opportunity for enlarging the sphere of his symj)athies, as well 
as of studying men under a great variety of social and mental peculiar- 
ities. 

Again, his long residence and high social position at the seat of Gov- 
ernment, his intimate acquaintance and friendly intercourse with states- 
men and politicians, imbued him with a thorough knowledge of the work- 
ing of the Government, such as few have ever possessed, while his ex- 
ertions to sustain the Coast Survey and improve its condition served to 
call into active operation his power to appreciate character, to discern 
motives, aud, therefore, to convince, persuade, and control men. His 
ability in this latter respect was remarkable; a personal interview with 
an opponent of the survey scarcely ever failed to convert perhaps an 
active euemy into an influential friend. His success in this respect 
often astonished those who frequently harassed Congress with propositions 
covertly designed to promote their own interest at the expense of public 
utility; hence the exclamation was not unfrequently heard, "Baclie is 
certainly a wonderful manager." If that which is unusual constitutes, 
an element of wonder, then the exclamation was not without truth, 
though not in the sense of those by whom it was uttered, for he never 
advocated any measure that was not just, expedient, and proper, either 
as concerned the interests of the country or the welfare of his species. 

On the whole, if we would seek the real secret of his influence over 
his fellow-men, it would be found, no doubt, to have consisted in the 
singular abnegation of self which pervaded his whole conduct ; his 
great practical wisdom, his honesty of purpose, and his genial though quiet 
aud unobtrusive manner. In the exercise of these characteristics, he 
was so far from the least appearance of dissimulation, that no one ever 
approached him without feeling that it was equally impossible to doubt 
the purity of his intentions as it was to elude the penetration of his 
quiet but thorough scrutiny. His calmness served as a shield from 
within and without; and as a guard against himself as well as a pro- 
tection against others. It enabled him to weigh the motives and observe 
the character of those who consulted him with the view of securing his 
influence or gaining his patronage. His genial nature enabled him to 
descend gracefully from the heights of science and to enter fully and 
fraiikly into the feelings of any company with which he might be 



108 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 

thrown. In this lie was aided by a playfulness of fancy and a quiet 
liumor wbicli banished any reserve that might have been produced by 
a knowledge of his superior talents and attainments. He was, though 
by no means gifted with those attractions of person which influence at 
first sight, a favorite with all ages, and particularly with the sex 
whose discrimination of character is said to be least fallible. It seems 
almost superfluous to say of such a man that his friendship was open 
and unwavering, that his confidence once bestowed could be shaken by 
no mere diftereuce of opinion or conflict of personal interests. Severe 
to himself under the responsibility of duty, and in the punctual observ- 
ance of his engagements, his indulgence was reserved for the weak and 
the erring. Though his outer life was free from disappointments or 
reverses, and though he walked as it were in perpetual sunshine, all was 
not so within. Besides the anxiety and solicitude incident to the respon- 
sible duties of his position, occasions of trial and profound sorrow were 
not spared hiui. He was called to mourn the untimely loss of a beloved 
brother, who fell a victim to his zeal for the professor's service in the 
survey of the Gulf Stream ; of another brother, the youngest and last, 
also an ofiQcer of the Navy, and a general favorite, who was drowned 
on the coast of California; and lastly of a sister, whom he had adopted 
and cherished as a child. In these seasons of affliction he found conso- 
lation in the steadfast convictions of religious faith. Nurtured in the 
forms and principles of the Episcopal church, he was a devout wor- 
shiper in the sanctuary, though not bigoted in his attachment to the 
peculiar ordinances of that communion. He fully recognized the union 
of science and religion, and held with unwavering constancy the belief 
that revelation, properly interpreted, and science, rightly understood, 
must ultimately join in perfect accord in reference to the great truths 
essential to the well-being of man. 

As an evidence of his high appreciation of abstract science derived 
from original investigation, he left his property in trust to the National 
Academy of Sciences, the income to be devoted to the prosecution of 
researches in physical and natural science by assisting experimentalists 
and observers, and the publication of the results of their investigations. 

I here close this imperfect sketch, in which I am conscious of having 
passed in silence many admirable traits of character and conduct, and of 
having very inadequately portrayed others, with the remark that, though 
our companion and brother has departed, his works and his influence 
still remain to us; that, sorrow as we must for his loss, we can still 
recall with i^ride and satisfaction the example he has left us of all that, 
in heart, in spirit, and in life, the true man of science ought to be. 



The following is a list of the published scientific papers of Alexander 
Dallas Bache, copied from the appendix to an address by Dr. Benjamin 



EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACIIE. 109 

A. Gould, before the American Associatiou for tlie Advauceuieut of 
Scieuce, August 6, 1868. 

1S29 — Feb. On the specific boat of the atoms of bodies. Journ. Phila. Acad. Kat. Set., 

vi, 141. 
1830-r-May. Ou the inflammation of phosphorus in a partial vacuum. Amer. Journ. 

ScL, xviii, 37*2. 
1831 — Mar. Report of the committee of the Franklin Institute, of Pennsylvania, ap- 
pointed May, 1829, to ascertain by experiment the value of water as a 

moving power. Journ. Frauk. Inst., vii, 145 ; viii, ix, x, &c. 
1831 — April. Safety apparatus for steamboats, beiuc^ a combination of the fusjble 

metal disk with the common safety-valve. Journ. FranMin Inst., vii, 

217 ; Amer. Journ. Sci., xx, 317. 
1631 — Oct. Meteorological observations during the solar eclipse of February 12, 

1831. Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc., iv, 132. 
1832 — July. Translation of Berzelius's Essay ou Chemical Nomenclature. Amer. 

Journ. Sci., xxii, 248 ; Philadelphia, 1832. 
1832— July. Notice of experiments ou electricity developed by magnetism. Journ. 

Franklin Inst., x, 66; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxii, 409. 
1832 — Oct. Alarm to be applied to the interior flues of steam-boilers. Journ. Frauk- 

lin Inst., X, 217. 
1832 — Nov. On the diurnal variation of the magnetic needle. Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc., 

y,l. 

1833 — Mar. Elementary view of the application of analysis to reflection and refrac- 
tion. An appendix to Sir David Brewster's treatise ou optics. Phila- 
delphia, 1833. pp. 95. 

IslK:! — July. Translation of Avogadro's memoir ou the elastic force of the vapor of 
mercury. 'Amer. Journ. Sci., xxiv, 286. 

1833 — July. Note of the eifect upon the magnetic needle of the aurora borealis, visi- 
ble at Philadelphia ou the 17th of May, 1833. Journ. Franklin Inst., xii, 
5 ; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxvii, 113. 

1833 — Nov. Attempt to fix the date of Dr. Frankliu's observation, in relation to the 
northeast storms of the Atlantic States. Journ. Franklin Inst., xii, 300. 

1833 — Dec. Report of experiments on the navigation of the Chesapeake and Dela- 
ware Canal by steam. Journ. Franklin Inst., xii, 361. 

1834 — Jan. Observations ou the disturbance in the direction of the horizontal needle, 
during the occnrrence of the aurora of July 10, 1833. Journ. Franklin 
Inst., xiii, 1; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxvii, 118. 

1834 — Jan. Report of the managers of the Franklin Institute, in relation to weights 
and measures. Presented in compliance with a resolution of the house 
of representatives of the State of Pennsylvania. Journ. Franklin Inst., 
xiv, 6 ; PhiladelpMa, 1834. 

18.34 — June. Analysis of some of the coals of Pennsylvania, (tnade jointly with Profes- 
sor H. D. Rogers.) Journ. Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci., vii, 158. 

1834 — Oct. On the variation of the magnetic needle. Amer. Journ. Sci., xxvii, 385. 

1834 — Nov. Observations to determine the magnetic dip at Baltimore, Philadelphia, 
New York, West Point, Providence, Springfield, and Albany, (made 
jointly with Professor E. H. Courteuay.) Tra)is. Amer. Phil. Soe., 
V, 209. 

1834 — Nov. Meteoric observations on and about Nov. 13, 1834. Amer. Journ. Sci., 
xxvii, 335; Journ. Franklin Inst., xvi, 369. 

1835— Jan. Note relating to the hardening of lime under water, by the action of car- 
bonate of potassa. &c., and to the hardening of carbonate of lime in 
the air, by potassa and soda. Journ. Frank. Inst., xv, 6. 



110 EULOGY ON TROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 



1835— .Mar. Meteorological observations made during the solar eclipse of November 
30, 1834. Trans. Arner. Phil. Soc, y, 237. 

1835 — May. Experimental illustrations of the radiating and absorbing powers of sur- 
faces for heat, of the effects of transparent screens, of the conducting 
power of solids, &c. Joiirn. Franklin Inst., xv, 303 ; Amvr. Joiirn. Sit., 
xxviii, 320. 

1835 — May. Replies to a circiilar in relation to the occurrence of an unusual meteoric 
display on the 13th of November, addressed by the Secretary of W.vr 
to the military posts of the United States, with other facts relating to 
the same question. Amer. Joiirn. ScL, xxviii, 305 ; Journ. Franklin Infi., 
xvi, 149. 

1835 — June. Experiments on the efficacy of Perkins's steam-boilers or circulators. 
Joiirn. Franklin Inst., xv, 379. 

1835 — July. On the comparative corrosion of iron, coi>per, zinc, &c., by a saturated 
solution of common salt. Journ. Franklin 7«s^., xvi,2. 

1835 — Nov. Inquiry in relation to the alleged influence of color on the radiation ot 
non-luminous heat. Journ. Franklin Inst., x.\i, 289; Amer. Journ. Set., 
XXX, 16. 

1835 — Dec. Historical notice of a hypothesis to explain the greater quantity of rain 
which falls on the surface of the ground than above it. Journ. Frank- 
lin Inst., xvii, 106. 

1836 — Jan. Observations upon the facts recently presented by Professor Olmsted in 
relation to meteors seen on the 13th of November, 1834. Journ. Frank- 
lin Inst., xvii, 33; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxix, 383. 

1836 — Jan. Historical note on the discovery of the non-conducting power of ice. 
Journ. Franklin Inst., xvii, 182. 

1836 — Jan. Report of experiments made by the committee of the Franklin Institute 
of Pennsylvania, on the exi)]osions of steam-boilers, at the request of 
the Treasury Department of the United States. Journ. Franklin Int-f., 
xvii, 1, 73, 145, 217, 289. 

1836 — Feb. Remarks on a method, proposed by Dr. Thomson, for determining the pro- 
portions of potassa and soda in a mixture of the two alkalies ; with the 
application of a similar investigation to a diflerent method of analysis. 
Journ. Franklin Inst., xvii, 305. 

1836 — April. Notes and diagrams illustrative of the directions of the forces acting Mt 
and near the surface of the earth, in diftei'ent parts of the Brunswick 
tornado of June 19, 1835. Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc, v. 407. 

1836 — May. Or the relative horizontal intensities of terrestrial magnetism at several 
l^laces in the United States, with the investigations of corrections for 
temperature, and comparisons of the methods of oscillation in full and 
in rarefied air, (jointly with Professor E. H. Courtenay.) Trans. Amer. 
Phil. Soc., V, 427. 

1836 — July. Proposed forms of diagrams for exhibiting to the eye the results of a 
register of the direction of the wind. Journ. Franklin Inst., xviii, 22. 

1837 — May. Corresponding magnetic observations, in connection with Professor 
Lloyd of Dublin, to determine the relative magnetic intensity in Phil- 
adelphia, Dublin, and Edinburgh. Proc. P. Irish Acad., i, 71. 

1838 — Aug. Note on the effect of deflected currents of air on the quantity of rain col- 
lected by a rain-gauge. Pc^). Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci., 1838, ii, 25. 

1839 — May. Report on education in Europe, to the trustees of the Girard College for 
Orphans. 8vo. pp.666. Philadelphia, 1839. 

1839 — Nov. Comparison of Professor Loomis's observations on magnetic dip with 
those obtained by Professor Courtenay and himself. Proc. Amer. Phil. 
Soc, i, 146. 



EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. Ill 

1839 — Nov. Simultaneous magnetic observations, made in correspoDdence witli Pro- 
fessor Lloyd of Dublin. Proc. It. Irish Acad., i, 462 ; Amer. Journ. Sci., 
xli, 212. 

1840 — Mar. Observations of tbe magnetic intensity at twenty-one stations in Europe. 
Irans. Amcr. Phil. Soc, vii, 75 ; Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, i, 185. 

1840 — Nov. Determination of the magnetic dip at Philadelphia and Baltimore. 
Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, i, 294. 

1840 — Dec. On an instrument for measuring the changes in the vertical compo- 
nent of the force of terrestrial magnetism Proc. Atner. Phil. Soc, i, 311 

1841 — May. Diagram of the direction and force of the wind, and amount and rate of 
rain-fall during the severe gust of April 2, 1841. Proc Amcr. Phil. Soc, 
n, 56. 

1841 — July. On observations of the magnetic dip, made at Baltimore by Mr. Nicollet 
and Major Graham. Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, ii, 83. 

1841 — Nov. Account of the formation of cumulus cloud from the action of a fire. 
Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, ii, 116. 

1842 — Mar. Semi-annual report of the principal of the High School, and report to the 
controllers of the pubUc schools. Twenty-fourth Annual Report of Con- 
trollers of Piiblic Schools of Philadelphia, pp. 23, 50. 

1842 — April. On the application of the self-registering rain-gauge to registering the 
fall of snow. Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc,\\, 164. 

1842 — July. Report of the principal of the Central High School for the year ending 
July, 1842. 8vo. pp. 120. Philadelphia. 

1842 — Oct. Address delivered at the close of the twelfth exhibition of American 
manufactures, held by the Franklin Institute. 

1842 — Dec. On a modification of Lloyd's induction inclinometer. Proc. Amer. Phil. 
Soc.,ii,2?/!. 

1843 — Jan. On a new dew-point hygrometer. Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, ii, 249. 

1843 — May. Results of two years' observations of the magnetic elements, and of the 
temperature, pressure, and moisture of the atmosphere at the magnetic 
observatory of Girard College. Proc Amer. Phil. Soc, iii, 90. 

1843 — May. Account of an instrument for determining the conducting power of 
bodies for heat. Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, iii, 132. 

1843 — May. Account of observations at Philadelphia and Toronto, during the mag- 
netic disturbance of May 6, 1S43, and their bearing upon the question 
of the kind of instruments and observations appropriate to determine 
such phenomena. Proc Amer. Phil. Soc, iii, 175. 

1845 — Feb. Report to the Treasury Department on the progress of construction of 
standard weights and measures. Senate Doc 149, 28th Congress, 2(t 
Session. 

1847 — Dec. Description of a new base apparatus used in the United States Coast 
Survey. Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, iv, 368. 

1848 — Dec. On a new method of observing transits. Monthly Xot. Ii. Astr. Soc, ix, 
123 ; Bull. Acad. Sci., Brussels, xvi, 313 ; Astr. Nachr., xxviii, 273. 

1849 — Aug. Comparison of the results ol)tained in geodesy by the application of the 
theory of least squares. Proc Amcr. Assoc. Adv. Sci., Cambridge, 1849, 
p. 102. 

1849— Aug. On the progress of the survey of the coast of the United States. Proc. 
Amer. Assoc, Cambridge, 1849, j). 162. 

1850 — Mar. Notes on the results of observations of the direction and force of the 
wind at the Coast Survey stations at Mobile Point and at Cat Island, 
Gulf of Mexico. Proc Amer. Assoc, Charleston, 1850, j). 50. 

1850 — Mar. Abstract of a communication on the recent progress of the telegraphic 
operations of the United States Coast Survey. Proc Amer. Assoc, 
Charleston, 1850, p. 122. 



112 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 

1850 — Aug. Method used iu the Coast Survey for showiug the results of current 
observations. Proc. Amer. Aasoc. , New Haven, 18.^0, p. 70; C. S. Eep., 

1850, p. 136. 

1850 — Aug. Remarks upon the meeting of the American Association at Cliarleston, 
in March, 1850. Proc. Amer. Assoc, Xeiv Haven, 1850, p. 159. 

1850 — Aug. Notes of a discussion of tidal observations, iu connection with the Coast 
Survey, made at Cat Island, in the Gulf of Mexico. Proc. Amer. Assoc 
Xeiv Haven, 1850, p. 281 ; Arner. Journ. -ScL, xii, 341; C. S. Pep., 1851 
p. 127. 

1851 — May. Current chai-t of Nevr York Bay, from observations in the Coast Survey. 
Proc. Amer. Assoc, Cincinnati, 1851, p. 43. 

1851 — May. Comparison of curves showing the hourly changes of magnetic declina- 
tion at I'hiladeljjhia, Toronto, and Hobarton from April to August, and 
from October to February, and for March and September. Proc. Amer. 
Assoc, Cincinnati, 1851, p. 62. 

Ib51 — May. On the determination of the velocity of sound by the method of coin- 
cidences. Proc Amer. Assoc, Cincinnati, 1851, p. 75. 

1851 — May. Notes on the use of the zenith telescope iu determining latitudes in the 
Coast Survey by Talcott's method, and on the reduction of the obser- 
vations. Proc Amer. Assoc, Cincinnati, 1851, j). 151 ; Amer. Journ. Sci., 
siv, 191. 

1851 — Aug. Additional notes of a discussion of tidal observations made in connection 
with the Coast Survey at Cat Island, Louisiana. Proc Amer. Assoc, 
Albany, 1851, p. 94 ; Amer. Journ. Sci., xiv, 346 ; C. S, Eep., 1852, p. 111. 

1851 — Aug. Notes on the tides at Sand Key, near Key West, Florida. Proc Amer. 
Assoc, Albany, 1851, p. 138. 

1851 — Aug. Address on retiring from the duties of president of the American Asso- 
ciation for the Advancement of Science. Proc Amer. Assoc, Albany, 

1851, p. 41. 

18.52 — Mar. Report on the harbor of Charleston, South Carolina, (as chairman of a 

committee.) 
1853 — July. On the tides at Key West, Florida, from observations made in connection 

with the United States Coast Survey. Proc Amer. Assoc, Cleveland, 

1853, p. 32 ; Amer. Journ. Sci., xviii, 305 ; C. S. llej)., 1853, p. 71. 

18.53 — July. On the tides of tbe western coast of the United States, from observations 
at San Francisco, California, in connection with the United States 
Coast Survey. Proc Amer. Assoc, Cleveland, 1853, -p. 42; Amer. Journ. 
Sci., xxi, 1 ; C. S. Pep., 1853, p. 77. 

1854 — May. Preliminary determination of co-tidal lines on the Atlantic coast of the 
United States, from the Coast Survey tidal observations. Proc. Amer^ 
Assoc, Washington, 1854, p. 107; Amer. Journ. Set., xxi, lA; C. S. Eep., 

1854, p. 147. 

1854 — May. Comparison of the diurnal inequality of the tides at San Diego, San 
Francisco, and Astoria, on the Pacific coast of the United States, from 
observations in connection with the Coast Survey. Proc Amer. Assoc, 
JVashinyton, 1854, p. 101 ; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxi, 10; C. S. Eeji., 1854, 
p. 152. 

1854 — May. On the distribution of temperature in and near the Gulf Stream, off the 
coast of the United States, from observations made in the Coast 
Survey. Proc Amer. Assoc, Wasliimjton , 1854, p. 134 ; Amer. Journ. 
Sci., xxi, 29 ; C. S. Eep., 1854, p. 1.56. 

1854- -June. Second report ou the harbor of Charleston, South Carolina. 

1855 — Feb. Discussion of observations for the isodynamic, isogonic, and isoclinal 
curves of terrestrial magnetism, on and near the line of the boundary 
survey between the United States and Mexico, made in 1849-1852, 



EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 113 



1855 — Aug. 
1855— Aug. 

1855— Aug. 

1855— Dec. 

1856— Jan. 
18.56— Aug. 

1856— Aug. 
1856— Aug. 
1&56— Aug. 

1856— Aug. 

185&— Oct. 

1856— Dec. 

185<>-Dec. 

1856— Dec. 
1857— Aug. 

ia57— Aug. 
1857— Aug. 



under the order of W. H. Emory, and combined with observations at 

San Francisco, California, and Dollar Point, (E. Base,) and Jupiter, 

Texas. Mem. Amer. Acad. Arts and ScL, v, 372. 
Approximate co-tidal lines of the Pacific coast of the United States, 

from observations in the United States Coast Survey. Froc. Amer. 

Assoc, Providence, 1855, p. 144; C. S. Eep., 1855, p. 338. 
Notice of the tidal observations made on the coast of the United States, 

on the Gulf of Mexico, with type-curves at the several stations, and 

their decomposition into the curves of diurnal and semi-diurnal tides. 

Proc. Amer. Assoc, Providence, 1855, p. 152 ; A7ner. Journ. Sci., xxi, 128 ; 

C. S. Sep., 1855, p. 346. 
Notice of earthquake waves on the western coast of the United States 

on the 23d and 25th of December, 1854. Proc. Amer. Assoc, Providence, 

1855, p. 153 ; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxi, 37 ; C. S. Bep., 1855, p. 342. 
Report to New York harbor commissioners, on surveys of New York 

Harbor. 
Annual address before the American Geographical Society, being a paper 

upon the Gulf Stream. Pulletin Amer. Geogr. Soc, ii, 94. 
Approximate co-tidal lines of diurnal and semi-diurnal tides of the coast 

of the United States on the Gulf of Mexico. Proc. Amer. Assoc, Albany, 

1856, p. 168 ; Amer. Journ. Sci., xsiii, 12 ; C. S. Bep., 1856, p. 252. 

On the general distribution of terrestrial magnetism in the United States, 
from observations made in the United States Coast Survey and others, 
(in connection with Mr. J. E. Hilgard.) Proc. Amer, Assoc, Albany, 

1856, p. 187 ; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxvi, 1; C. S. Bep., 1856, p. 209. 
Observations to determine the cause of the increase of Sandy Hook, 

made by the Coast Survey for the commissioners on harbor encroach- 
ments. Proc Amer. Assoc, Albany, 1856, p. 171 ; Amer. Journ. Sci., 
xxiii, 16 ; C. S. Bep., 1856, p. 263. 

Notice of observations to determine the progress of the tidal wave of the 
Hudson River, made by the Coast Survey for the commissioners on 
harbor encroachments. Proc. Amer. Assoc, Albany, 173 ; Amer. Journ. 
Sci., xxiii, 17. ^ 

Notes on the progress made in the Coast Survey in prediction-tables for 
the tides of the United States coast. Proc. Amer. Assoc, Albany, 1856, 
p. 166; C. S. Bep., 1856, p. 249. 

Anniversary address before the American Institute of the city of New 
York, during the twenty-eighth annual fair. New York, 1857, pp. 60. 

Report to New York harbor commissioners on the progress of the survey 
of New York harbor. 

Notes on the winds of the coast of the United States on the Gulf of 
Mexico. C. S. Bep., p. 272. 

Report of Superintendent of Weights and Measures. 

Notice of the determination of the longitude of Fernandina, Amelia 
Island, Florida, by means of chronometer exchanges from Savannah, 
Georgia, (in connection with Mr. C. A. Schott.) Proc Amer. Assoc, 
Montreal, 1857, p. 166; C. S. Bep. 1857, p. 314. 

On the heights of the tides of the Atlantic coast of the United States, 
from observations in the Coast Survey. Proc Amer. Assoc, Montreal, 

1857, p. 175; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxv, 47; C. S. Bep., p. 342. 

On the winds of the western coast of the United States, from observa- 
tions in connection with the United States Coast Survey. Proc Amer. 
Assoc, Montreal, 1857, p. 183 ; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxv, 52 ; C. S. Bep., 
1857, p. 354. 



8S 



114 EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 



1857 — Ang. Notes on the measurement of the base of the primary triangulation of 
the eastern section of the coast of the United States, on Eppiiig Plains, 
Maine. Proc. Amer. Assoc, Montreal, 1857, p. 160 ; Amer. Journ. Sci., 
XXV, p. 58 ; C. S. Eep., 1857, p. 302. 

1857 — Dec. Report relative to the New York harbor survey. U. S. Senate Doc, 1858, 
No. 16. 

1858 — May. On a supposed personal equation in the use of the zenith telescope, for 
determining latitudes by Talcott's method. Proc. Amer. Assoc, Balti- 
more, 1858, p. 14; a S. Rep., 1858, p. 184. 

1858 — May. On the tidal currents of New York Bay, near Sandy Hook. Proc Amer- 
Assoc, Baltimore, 1858, j). 80; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxvi, 334 ; C. S. Eep., 
1858, p. 197. 

18.58 — July. Defense of Dr. Gould, by the scientific council of the Dudley Observa- 
tory, (in connection with Professors Joseph Henry and Benj. Peirce.) 
Albany, 1858, pp. 91. 

1859 — Feb. Address before the Alumni Association of the Central High School. Phila- 
delphia, 1859. 

1859 — June. Address in tribute to the memory of Humboldt. The Pulpit and Em. 
irum. No. 6. 

1859 — Aug. General account of the results of the discussion of the declinometer 
observations, made at Girard College, Philadelphia, between the years 
1840 to 1845, with special reference to the eleven-year period. Proc. 
Amer. Assoc, Springfield, 1859, p. 248. 

18.59 — Aug. Gulf-Stream explorations. Third memoir. Distribution of temperature 
in the water of the Florida Channel and Straits. Proc Anw. Assoc, 
Springfield, 1859, p. 257 ; Amer. Journ. Sci., xxix, 199 ; C. S. Eep., 1859, 
p. 306. 

1859 — Nov. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the 
Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840 to 1845, Part I. 
Investigation of the eleven-year period in amplitude of the solar 
diurnal variation, and of the disturbances of the magnetic declination, 
pp. 22. Smiths. Contrib. to Knowledge, vol. xi, art. iv ; C. S. Eep., 1859, 
p. 278. 

*1860 — Aug. Lecture on the Gulf Stream. Proc. Amer. Assoc, Nenport, 1800, p. xlix ; 
Amer. Journ. Sci., xxx, 313; C. S. Rep., 1860, p. 165. 

1860 — Aug. General account of the results of Part II of the discussion of the decli- 
nometer observations made at the Girard College, Philadelphia, be- 
tween 1840 and 1S45, with special reference to the solar diurnal varia- 
tion and its annual inequality. Proc. Amei: Assoc, Neuport, 1860, p. 74 ; 
Amer. Journ. Sci., xxxi, 197. 

1860 — Aug. Abstract of a discussion of the influence of the moon on the declination 
of the magnetic needle, from the observations at the Girard College. 
Proc. Amer. Assoc, Newport, 1860, p. 83 ; Ainer. Journ. Set., xxxi, 98. 

1860— Sept. Observations of the solar eclipse of 1860, July 18, at the Coast Survey 
station, Guustock Mountain. Astron. Journ., vi, 157. 

1862 — June. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological , observations made at 
the Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840 to 1845, Part II. 
Investigation of the solar diurnal variation of the magnetic declina- 
tion and its annual inequality, jip. 28. Smiths. Contrib. to Knowl., vol. 
xiii, art. v ; C. S. Eep., 1860, p. 293. 

1862 — June. Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the 
Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840 to 1845, Part III. 
Investigation of the influence of the moon on the magnetic declination, 
pp. 16. Smiths. Contnb. to Knowl., vol. xiii, art. vi ; C. S. Eep., 1860, p. 312. 

1862 — Sept. Abstract of a discussion of the horizontal component of the magnetic 



EULOGY ON PROFESSOR ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 



15 



1862— Nov. 



force, from observations made at the Girard College observatory, Phil- 
adelphia, in the years 1840 to 1845. Amer. Journ. Sci., xxxiv, 261. 

Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the 
Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840 to 1845, second sec- 
tion, comprising Parts IV, V, VL Horizontal force, investigation of 
the ten or eleven year period, and of the disturbances of the horizontal 
component of the magnetic force ; investigations of the solar diurnal 
variation and of the annual inequality of the horizontal force, and 
the lunar effect on the same, pp. 78. Smiths. Contrib. to Knoiol., vol. xiii, 
art. viii ; C. S. Eejh, 1862, p. 161. 

Abstract of an investigation of the solar diurnal variation of the annual 
inequality of the horizontal comiJonent of the magnetic force, from 
observations made at the Girard College observatory, between 1840 
and 1845. Amer. Journ. Sci., xxxiv, 373. 

Abstract of a discussion of the influence of the moon on the horizontal 
magnetic force, from observations made at the Girard College observa- 
tory, in the years 1840 to 1845. Amer. Journ. Sci., xxxiv, 381. 

Additional researches on the co-tidal lines of the Gulf of Mexico. C. S. 
Rep., 1862, p. 126. 

Eulogy on Hon. James Alfred Pearce. Annual Report of Regents Smith- 
sonian Institution for 1862, p. 100. 

Abstract of results of a magnetic survey of Pennsylvania and parts of 
adjacent States in 1840 and 1841, with some additional results of 1843 
and 1862, and a map. Amer. Journ. Sci., xxxv, 359; C. S. Bep., 1862, 
p. 212. 

Records and results of a magnetic survey of Pennsylvania and parts of 
adjacent States in 1840 and 1841, with some additional records and 
results of 1834, 1835, 1843, and 1862, and a map, pp. 88. Smiths. Contrih. 
to Knoicl., vol. xiii, art. viii. 

Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the 
Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840 to 1845, third sec- 
tion, comprising Parts VII, VIII, IX. Vertical force. Investigation 
of the eleven (or ten) year iieriod, and of the disturbances of the ver- 
tical component of the magnetic force, and appendix on the magnetic 
effect of the aurora borealis ; with an investigation of the solar diurnal 
variation, and of the annual inequality of the vertical force, and of 
the lunar effect on the vertical force, the inclination and total force, pp. 
72. Smiths. Contrib. to Knowl, vol. xiv, art. ii; C. S. Rep., 1863, p. 156, 

Discussion of the magnetic and meteorological observations made at the 
Girard College observatory, Philadelphia, in 1840 to 1845 ; fourth sec- 
tion, comprising Parts X, XI, XII. Dip and total force. Analysis of 
the disturbances of the dip and total force ; discussion of the solar 
diurnal variation and annual inequality of the dip and total force ; 
and discussion of the absolute dip, with the iinal values for declination, 
dip, and force, between 1841 and 1845, pp. 44. Smiths. Contrih. to Knowl., 
vol. xiv, art. iii ; C. S. Rep., 1864, p. 183. 

Annual reports of the progress of the United States Coast Survey. 

Annual reports of Superintendent of Weights and Measures. 

Tide tables for the use of navigators, prepared from the Coast Survey 
observations, annually. 

Also, the following reports coDcerning harbors, jointly with Messrs. 
Totten and Davis : 

1853 — Mar. Report upon Cape Fear River and harbor. 
1854 — Oct. Report of Portland harbor commission. 



1862— Nov. 

1862— Nov. 

1862— Dec. 
1863— Jan. 
1863— May. 

3863— Oct. 

1864— May. 



1865— Jan. 



1844 to 1863. 
1844 to 1848. 
1855 to 1863. 



116 EULOGY OX PROFESSOK ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. 



1855 — Mar. Second report of tbe commissioners on Portland harbor. 

1855_Dec. Report of advisory council of the New York harbor commission. New 
York Assemlhj Doc, 1856, No. 8. 

1856— July. Report of the advisory council of the New York harbor commission, 
recommending certain lines in the East and North Rivers, and in 
Brooklyn. New York Senate Doc, 18.57, No. 40, p. 107. 

1856 — July. Report of the advisory council of the New York harbor commission on 
Gowanus Bay and its improvements. New York ,Senaie Doc, 1857, No. 
40, p. 118, 

1856— Sept. Report of the advisory council of the New York harbor commission on 
the Hell Gate Passage, regarded as a channel of approach to New York 
harbor. Neiv York Senate Doc, 1857, No. 40, p. 137, 

[-856 — Oct. Second general report of the advisory council to the harbor commis- 
sioners, on lines in New York harbor. Neiv York Senate Doc, 1857, No. 
40, p. 81. 

1856 — Dec. Report of the advisory council to the commissioners on harbor encroach- 
ments of New York, in regard to safe and commodious anchorages 
in New York harbor, for the purposes of the quarantine of vessels. 
New York Senate Doc, 1857, No. 40, p. 132. 

1856 — Dec. Report of the advisory council to the New York harbor commissioners 
upon Harlem River and Spuyten Duyvil Creek. New York Senate Doc, 
1857, No. 40, p. 151. 

1857 — Feb. Report of the advisory council of lines for the East River, for the shore 
of Long Island, and the east shore of Staten Island. New York Senate 
Doc, 1857, No. 126, p. 9. 

1857 — Mar. Report of the advisory council to the New York harbor commissioner? 
upon the comparative map of New York Bay and harbor, and its ap- 
proaches, prepared by the Coast Survey in March, 1857. Neio York 
Senate Doc, 1857, No. 126, p. 12. 

1860 — Mar. Preliminary reports of commissioners on Boston harbor. Boston City Doc, 
1860, No. 37. 

1860 — Dec. Second report of United States commissioners on the condition of Boston 
harbor. Boston City Doc, 1860, No. 97. 

1860 — Dec. Special report of the United States commissioners on Boston harbor, on 
the relation of Mystic Pond and River to Boston harbor. Boston City 
Doc, 1861, No. 12. 

1860 — Dec. Report of the advisory council of the joint committee of the Massachu- 
setts legislature on the subject of a ship-canal to connect Barnstable 
Bay and Buzzard's Bay. Mass. Pith. Doc, 1864, No. 41. 

1861 — Sei>t. Foiu'th report of the United States commissioners on Boston harbor. 
Boston City Doc, 1861, No. 62. 

1861 — Sept. Fifth report of the United States commissioners on Boston harbor. Bos- 
ton City Doc, 1861, No. 63. 

1863 — April. Sixth report of the United States commissioners on Boston harbor. Bos- 
ton City Doc, 1863, No. 53. 

1864 — Mar. Seventh report of the United States commissioners on Boston harbor. 
Boston City Doc, 1864, No. 33. 

1864 — Mar. Eighth report of the United States commissioners on Boston harbor. 
Boston City Doc, 1864, No. 34. 



LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 



By Alexander Dallas Bache. 



[The following lectnre on SwitzerlantI, from the manuscript of Professor Bache, is 
here published for the first time to illustrate in connection with the foregoing eulogy 
his habit of observation and his facility of description. It presents, however, a lively 
sketch of one of the most interesting jiortions of the earth, whether considered from a 
historical or physical point of view, and we doubt not will be read with pleasure, 
especially by all who have been favored with a visit to the delightful region which it 
describes. The original notes from which the lecture was iircpared were taken during 
the Professor's visit to Switzerland in 1837-38. The foot-notes, exhibiting the present 
condition of the country, have been kindly furnished to us by the Hon. Mr. Hitz, Swiss 
consul general in this city. — J. H.] 

Travelers relate that in certain conditions of the atmosphere a spec- 
tator standing" upon the shore at Eeggio, and looking upon the smooth 
waters of the Straits of Messina, sees suddenly rise before him, as if by 
magic, tbe walls, towers, palaces, domes, and streets of a city, in which 
mimic life goes on, men and animals moving noiselessly to and fro. The 
illusion is as complete as if the waters of the bay were a foundation 
upon which the genii of the lamp or of the ring had suddenly erected 
their magic structures. This is an extreme case of the ordinary illusion 
l)resented to those who, in a calm clear day, look at distant objects 
across a wide expanse of bay or river. Familiar forms are strangely 
distorted ; level shores appear x>recipitous 5 the puny sloop swells into 
the size of a frigate ; the fisherman's boat becomes a dismasted sloop, 
and its occupant a giant. Just so it is when in mental vision we attempt 
to look through an atmosphere disturbed by the habits and ijrejudices 
to which we are accustomed. Unreal towers and walls appear, and 
objects so lose their shapes that the most familiar forms escape recog- 
nition. Every country has its prejudices resulting from education, from 
all the influences, political, moral, social, and physical which surround 
and act ui)on its citizens. By these, in general, the observer of men 
and things is biased, and he who through the mists of Ms national or 
personal prejudices seeks to realize their just forms and proportions, 
may mistake the pigmy for a giaut, the shallop for a frigate. 

In estimating the institutions of the Old World we are prone to forget 
that the materials for our judgment are generally furnished by the opin- 
ions of those who are brought up under a totally different state of things 
from that which exists around us. The conclusions which we thus form 
may be the very opposite of those to which we would have come our- 
selves, had our own prepossessions furnished the inferences from the 
facts. In neither case, perhaps, would truth be arrived at, but in the 



118 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 

former the result may be deeply injurious, because leading to modes 
and habits of thought and action not in harmony with the peculiarities 
of our country. 

Impressed with the importance to Americans of judging independ- 
ently of the institutions of Europe, I formerly took occasion in another 
place to present a cursory view of the capital of Austria, as illustrating 
the effects of institutions the very opposite of our own. I design on 
this occasion to occupy your attention, without further exceeding the 
limits of a lecture than is absolutely necessary, by a notice of men and 
things in the only federated republic of Europe, Switzerland. I cannot 
pretend to set before you a panoramic view, but merely a few detached 
pictures in outline, so selected as to convey a tolerably fair idea of 
republican Switzerland as it appeared to an American. By contem- 
plating it we shall have an example of the practical working of repub- 
licanism in the Old World, under various modifications, and with the 
disadvantages of being hemmed in on aU sides by monarchies. We shall 
thus see the power of this system to civilize and to enlighten. 

In the course of these sketches we shall find much bearing both 
directly and indirectly upon the objects which this Institute was estab- 
lished to promote. Upon the map of Europe Switzerland is so well 
defined by its boundaries that there is no danger of its escaping the 
sight on account of its small size. The Ehine constitutes nearly two 
sides of this boundary, from the point where the various streams from 
the glaciers of the Grisons have met to form a river into the lake of 
Constance, and from its exit thence to where the Jura Mountains turn 
its course to the Korthern Ocean. The Jura separates Switzerland from 
France, and with merely an outlet for the Ehone, the Alps take up the 
line, dividing rugged Switzerland from the plains of Northern Italy. 

The picturesque features of this country have furnished themes for the 
poet, the painter, and tourist. Under the influence of its snow-capped 
mountains, its shady and sequestered valleys, its rough glaciers, and its 
placid lakes, common-place men have warmed into something approach- 
ing to poetic fervor, and men of genius have poured forth their inspira- 
tions in verse or lofty prose. It is impossible to call up even in memory 
those scenes with all their attendant circumstances of romance — both 
nature and life so different from that to which we are accustomed — 
without feeling the heart and the imagination moved beyond their 
wont. 

"Who first beholds those everlasting clouds — 
Those mighty hills, so shadowy, so sublime, 
As rather to belong to heaven than earth, 
But instantly receives into his soul 
A sense, a feeling, that he loses not ; 
A something, that informs him 'tis an hour 
Whence he may date henceforward and forever." 

But who shall dare to speak in plain prose of scenes of which the muse 
of Byron has sung? The rugged nature of the country within this bound- 



LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. Ill) 

ary has had its effect iu determining the character of institutions as 
well as of individuals. Small tracts of country are as comj)letely sepa- 
rated by mountains of difficult passage, as by distance, differ iu the 
modes and facilities of life, have different interests, and consequently 
separate organizations. The character of the topography has divided 
the country into many small states, and has produced striking differ- 
ences iu language and manners, in religions, social and political organ- 
ization, in a country of not more than one-third the extent of Pennsyl- 
vania, and with about the same population of that entire State. 

The present Swiss confederation consists of twenty-two sovereign 
states called cantons, the division of which, according to geographical 
position, includes also that of language.* Thus the north and middle of 
Switzerland contains the sixteen cantons where a dialect of the German 
is spoken, Zurich being the principal canton on the north, and Berne 
in the middle. To the west and south' of the middle are the mixed 
German and French cantons of Neuchatel, Friberg, and Valais ; to the 
southeast the mixed German Romanic and Italian canton of the Grisons, 
or gray league, subdivided into its little sovereign states. On the south- 
west are the French cantons of Vaud and Geneva, and on the south of 
the middle the Italian canton of Tessiu. While the language spoken 
by these people is determined by their jiroximity to those who speak it 
in its purity, their social, religious, and political institutions may almost 
be said to be uninfluenced by this circumstance. These are the results 
of other causes, many of which may be found in their history. 

A Florentine scholar relating to me unpublished anecdotes of the 
horrors enacted by members of the far-famed family of the Medici, with 
Italian fervor broke out into this apostrophe : " Happy your great coun- 
try, which has not the chains of a dark history to bind it to the institu- 
tions and manners of a by-gone age. Beware how you men of the pre- 
sent day sully the pure page which records the actions of your forefathers, 
of your Adams, your Franklin, your Washington." 

The condition of a country at a past day must assuredly influence its 
present state as the summer's sun upon the snow-covered mountains of 
the Alps increases the autumnal flow of the river whose sources lie 
among them, or as the accumulation of the winter's snow upon the 
mountain's peak produces the summer's avalanche. 

The history of the Swiss republics shows the circumstances which 
prepared and the impulses which gave existence to each, and a glorious 
history it is upon which to found progress in virtue and liberty. 

Nearly in the center of Switzerland is a mountainous district which 
the Eomans never reached, into which the bands of Attila never pene- 
trated, and where no ruins of feudal castles exist to show that in the 

*To wit: Zurich. Berue, Lncerue, Uri Schwyz, Unterwalden, (upper and lower,) 
Glarus, Zug, Friburg, Solerne, Basil, (city and country,) Schaffhauseu, Appouzel, (both 
Rhodes,) St. Gallea, Grisons, Aargan, Thurgan, Tessin, Vaud, Valais, Nouchatel, and 
Geneva. 



120 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 

Middle Ages the inhabitants had a master. Divided, generally, by rocky 
barriers into separate communities, the people are in a degree united by 
the beautiful lake of the Forest cantons. These people, from the ear- 
liest records, have been, and are now, poor and pastoral. They form the 
democratic cantons of Schwyz, Uri, and Untervvaldeu, the nucleus of 
Swiss confederation. As early as the twelfth century they had a repre- 
sentative at the court of the Emperor of German}^, then the titular sov- 
ereign of Switzerland. Eudolph of Habsburg, whose castle was near 
the confluence of the Eeuss and the Aar, the father of the founder of 
the house of Austria, was elected the representative of these peasants, 
and subsequently the family claimed the dignitary to be hereditary. 
This claim was never admitted, and to its impolitic enforcement by 
Albert of Habsburg, accompanied by circumstances of peculiar indignity 
on his own part, and of great cruelty and oppression on the part of his 
bailiif Gessler, was owing the revolution headed by Tell and his com- 
I)anions. 

In pursuit of these same hereditary rights, Frederick of Austria, with 
his armies, entered the Forest cantons by their mountain passes, deter- 
mined to overrun and crush them. He was successfully resisted at the 
pass of Morgarten by one thousand three hundred men, and nine thou- 
sand of his troops perished in this defeat. Thus was developed that 
fierce military spirit which has led the Swiss of every age to acts of the 
most devoted heroism. 

From their wars with the dukes of Austria, the Swiss came out in 
1412 with eight cantons recognized as independent. The appetite for 
war had been whetted by this successful resistance to oi^pression, and 
was carried to its height by the defeat of Charles the Bold of Burgundy, 
and of his magnificent troops, at Grandson and at Morat. The spoils 
of these great armies suddenly enriched the people. Labor was neg- 
lected and fell into contempt, and the profession of arms alone consid- 
ered worthy occupation for a Swiss. The nation was for a time debased 
by a mercenary militar}^ spirit, and it required two centuries of blood- 
shed to impress the lessons necessary to their regeneration. The wars 
of the Eeformation gave the last of this series of unhappy lessons, and 
at their close left the several cantons confirmed in their attachment to 
the same churches in behalf of which they had expended to no purpose 
their blood and treasure. In 1712 the confederation had attained nearly 
its present limits, but some of the present cantons were held as trib- 
utary provinces by the others. The Swiss spirit of former days burst 
forth when republican France began to proselyte by force of arms, and 
the constitution of the new Helvetic republic was presented at the point 
of the sword, and enforced by its edge. While the cantons of the plain 
were held by the French armies, pleasantly occui)ied in appropriating 
the savings of the aristocrats, and in giving liberty to the people by 
depriving them of their independence, the Forest cantons dared to 
declare that they had been free since the days of Tell, and Melchthal, 



LECTUEE ON SWITZERLAND. 121 

and Winkelried ; that they required no lessons in self-government, and 
would resist invasion of their civil and religions rights to the death. 
Aloys Eeding, a descendant of Kndolph, who had defeated Frederick of 
Austria at the i)ass of Morgarten five hundred years before, occupied 
again that Thermopylas of his country. The mode of warfare had 
changed ; personal strength has little advantage in contests with fire- 
arms ; rocks and stones, though launched from mountain heights, are 
imperfect substitutes for cannon balls ; numbers can no longer be coun- 
terbalanced by valor. Four thousand men, aided by their women and 
children, held this pass two days against forty thousand, but at last 
were forced to yield, and the Forest cantons received the constitution 
which they could no longer resist. 

The days of the Jacobins passed ; those of the First Consul and Empe- 
ror dawned, waxed, and waned, and Switzerland was the battle-ground 
on which the French, Austrians, and Kussians contended, everywhere 
desolating the country with fire and sword. The pacification of Europe 
put an end to the horrible scenes then enacted, and the republics of 
Switzerland were left to reorganize themselves, affording in their rapid 
recovery from their desolate condition a strong evidence of the energy 
of the people. The organization then adopted, with soniC changes, exists 
at present. Forty years of exemption from war have obliterated the 
external marks of the misery of the country, but in the institutions of 
the different States the influence of their past history is still entirely 
visible. 

The rough sketches which I must pass rapidly before you, to give 
some idea of the present condition of the country, will be taken from 
the French and German cantons — those which exercise the most influ- 
ence upon Switzerland as it is, and as it will be. 

Geneva, the oldest city of the confederation, is the frontier town upon 
the southwest. Its foundation dates before that of Eome itself. The 
inhabitants were among those Helvetians whom the fortune of war at 
last put at the mercy of the Romans who occupied the cit}^ with their 
legions. The Middle Ages found it a place of importance under the sov- 
ereignty of the Duke of Savoy ; the see of a bishop, nominated by the 
duke, who was the temporal as well as the ecclesiastical ruler. History 
represents its moral and intellectual condition to have been low, its 
commerce moderate. Under the preaching of Farel in 1535 the citizens 
declared for the Eeformation, and drove the bishop from their walls. 
In 153G, Calvin, a native of Picardy, came among them, and hj his pow- 
erful preaching brought about a second reformation which changed 
entirely not only the face of society, but the habits and modes of thought 
and action of the people. 

At a little distance from the water the shores of Lake Leman, or the 
Lake of Geneva, rise abruptly, and on this irregular ground, just where 
the Ehone issues from the lake, the city is built. The nature of the site 
thus divides Geneva into an upper and lower town. Below, and on the 



122 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 

steep streets occupying the slope, are the houses and shops of the trades- 
men, and on the hill are those of the more wealthy citizens, once the 
Genevese aristocracy. The suburb on the opposite bank of the Ehoue is 
joined by bridges to the old town, and rivals the hill-top, by its fine 
houses. The town is surrounded by ramparts, once of use to resist ene- 
mies and now affording pleasant promenades. These ramparts often 
protected the town in times gone by, but did not prevent its occupation bj'" 
the French in 1798, and must necessarily yield to any enemy which has 
the means of bombarding the city. The conviction of their inutility has 
led the liberal governments of Berne and Zurich to raze these ramparts 
to the ground.* 

The anniversary of an unsuccessful attempt, by the Savoyards, in 1602? 
to surprise the city, is still celebrated. Under cover of a dark night, and 
by the use of scaling ladders painted black the better to conceal them, 
a party of the enemy's i)ioneers had mounted the walls and penetrated 
into the town, when they were discovered by the careless watch. The 
citizens were surprised but not daunted, and issuing from their houses 
with such arms as they could seize, fell ui)on the invaders. The first gun 
fired from the ramparts carried away several of the scaling ladders, and 
prevented succor. In the morning the people assembled in the venerable 
church (^f St. Peter, when the pastor opened public worship by giving 
oat the 124th Psalm; and since, on every 12th of December, the same 
sounds arise from the voices of many worshipers : 

" If it bad not been tbe Lord wbo was on our side, now may Israel say : 

" If it bad not been tbe Lord wbo was on our side wben men rose up against us." 

The University of Geneva was founded by Calvin, in 15G4, and has 
always enjoyed a high reputation. In order to connect it advantage- 
ously with the grammar schools which i^repare its pupils, the auditories 
have been provided, in which the character of the studies, the modes of 
teaching, and the discipline are intermediate between those of the school 
and of the university. Public instruction is under the control of the 
council of state, but while the impress of the best minds in this intel- 
lectual city is upon its higher institutions, the common schools are not, 
nor can they soon be made, what they ought to be. Like most of their 
fellow-republicans of the United States, the Genevese began their educa- 
tional edifice at the top. They have yet to learn that parsimony in 
education under a popular government is waste ; that unless instruction 
be really public it is better left entirely in the hands of individuals ; 
that it is in vain to move the waters and then to pretend to say to the 
raised wave, thus far shalt thou go and no farther. The Genevese youth 
of families in easy circumstances find means of the best education : do 
they on this account effectively control those to whom the so-called re- 
public gives less light ? Witness the frequent revolutions in this city, 
and these not always without bloodshed. The government is founded 

* Tbe ramparts bere referred to have all been removed, and Geneva at tbe present 
date (1871) presents no evidences of ever having been a fortified city. 



LECTUEE ON SWITZERLAND. 123 

on a popular revolution, and all attempts to impede the progress of pop- 
ular institutions must in the end prove futile. If the light of education 
be denied to the people by their rulers, the revolutions will be bloody; 
and in no case can there be happiness or safety without the full exercise 
of popular rights, by a thoroughly educated people.* 

Calvin, as head of the consistory, whose meinbers then formed one- 
third of the council of state, governed Geneva, and impressed his own 
austere character upon the laws and manners. Public amusements 
were prohibited and private regulated. The number of guests to be 
invited to weddings of the first, second, and third class, was made the 
subject of municipal regulation. All dancing was interdicted, and 
when it was found that if the violin were played people would dance, 
the use of the instrument was prohibited. The absence of light amuse- 
ments, together with religious feeling, naturally led to a greater use of 
those relaxations deemed lawful, and to the more active pursuit of science 
and literature by the better educated. Though times have changed in 
Geneva, in regard to religious creed as well as to amusements, the im- 
I)ress of former days is still strong upon it, and those who term it " a 
little Paris " do not look beneath the surface. 

There is a curious mixture of the traits, manners, and modes of life 
of both France and England in this city, with a basis which is entirely 
Genevese. No less than ten thousand strangers, including, however, 
Swiss of other cantons, reside permanently in a town of thirty thousand 
inhabitants, and the number passing through it in a year is reckoned to 
be as great as the population itself. The influence of their manners is, 
of course, considerable, notwithstanding the exclusiveness of Genevese 
society. This exclusiveness is fostered among the ladies in the usual 
way, and among the men by clubs, literary, scientific, for conversation 
and mere amusement. It even begins among the children, who associ- 
ate in little knots called Sunday- societies, the members of which keep 
up with each other the intercourse of cousins. Many Genevese enter 
into commercial life abroad, and after accumulating wealth return to 
their home, few (except those who have migrated to the United States) 
becoming identified with foreign countries. 

The most prominent business in Geneva is the manufacture of jewelry, 
and of watches. Each part of the watch is the special occupation of 
one class of workmen. Dilferent portions of the works are made by 
peasants, but the finishing and putting together of the whole, as 
well as the manufacture of the cases, emjiloy the artisans of Geneva. 
Nearly three thousand persons within the town, about one-fifth of 
the men, are occupied in the jewelers' and watch-makers' business, 
and twenty thousand watches are made annually, t The restrictive 

* The school system of Geneva has undergone a material change, and public schools 
of all grades are liberally provided for. 

t The census of 1870 show seven thousand persons engaged in -watch-making, and 
upward of 200,000 watches made per annum. 



124 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 

duties laid upon these manufactures by neighboring countries, and 
especially by France, have led to a regularly organized system of smug- 
gling, from which the government agents appear to derive a i)rivate 
revenue, and which is, therefore, very difiicult to break up. It is said 
that a prefect of police of Paris, having bought at Geneva jewelry 
and watches to a considerable amount, the tradesman offered to deliver 
them in Paris for an additional sum much below the cost of carriage 
and the duties. The prefect made the agreement, and gave notice at the 
frontier custom-houses, describing the articles, and requiring even more 
than usual vigilance. The articles were, nevertheless, delivered to him 
according to contract, and on investigation he found that they had 
passed the frontier in his own baggage. This is one of the devious 
ways of trade which is, I fear, not peculiar to any nation, and which 
the better moral tone to be cultivated by associations like that which I 
now address may and should correct. To elevate the watchmakers' 
art, a society has been formed for the preliminary education of appren- 
tices, and prizes for attainments in mathematics, drawing, and kindred 
subjects, are awarded to successful competitors. 

The political changes in Geneva have been of an instructive kind. 
The people declared for the Eeformation, and threw off the authority of 
the Duke of Savoy. Thus the popular will was the basis of the exist- 
ence of the present government. The necessity for constant resistance 
to enemies without produced an easy concentration of i)ower in the 
hands of a few, and by limiting the number of families from among the 
members of which the rulers were chosen, the government was rendered 
practically an aristocracy, not of rank, for the patricians of Geneva 
have always refused even this title, but of wealth and intelligence. The 
warfare of practice against principle has caused many revolutions, all 
leading to an extension of popular privileges, and though likened by 
the Emperor Paul, of Eussia, to storms in a tumbler, their influences, 
direct and indirect, have spread widely. Between the year 1535, when 
the Bishop of Geneva was violently expelled from the city, and the year 
1837, there had been five revolutions, and including two unsuccessful 
but violent j)opular commotions, and seven attempts to alter the gov- 
ernment. And thus it must be until the end of the chapter, until i)rivi- 
leges and rights are in harmony — until, in other words, Geneva is a true 
republic. 

The chief points of dispute still are (unless recent events have settled 
some of them) that the sovereignty of the people is not formally 
acknowledged ; that the representative council has no right to originate 
laws, but only to discuss those offered to them by the Council of State ; 
that the right of petition is not recognized, and that the privilege of 
voting is possessed only by those who pay a certain amount of taxes; 
the amount being fixed so high as to exclude about two-thirds of the 
citizens who are over age from the polls.* 

* All this has been changed by the constitutioa adopted May 24, 1847, the provisions 
whereof are essentially democratic. 



LECTUEE ON SWITZERLAND 125 

Take the agitation of this cauton in connection with the fact that in 
the eight cantons having a popular form of government, there were no 
revohitious in 1830, the last marked i^eriod in the i)rogress of these 
governments, and the lesson becomes even more instructive. 

How much do we not owe to onr forefathers, who in establishing our 
republican system threw oif the trammels of the Old World, and removed 
all such obstacles to our progress ! How clear their view of republican 
institutions when compared with those of the men of Europe, even in 
the present day! 

One of the most important engines in the improvement of Switzer- 
land is the " Helvetic Society for public ntility." * Its branches are scat- 
tered over the whole country, meeting frequently and maintaining a 
correspondence with the parent society through the medium of com- 
mittees. Delegates from the local associations meet in different parts 
of the country in turn, and discuss questions connected with education, 
l)olitical economy, and the general welfare of the country. The reports 
made at these meetings and the information laid before them are 
printed and disseminated through the confederation by the branch soci- 
eties. Independently of the influence thus exerted upon and through 
the reading community, the intercourse of enlightened men of different 
cantons is beneficial to the country, and the congregation of great and 
patriotic spirits has a good effect in the place of meeting. In the sum- 
mer of 1837 this society met at Geneva, and then for the first time some 
of the statesmen of the German cantons met their fellow-citizens of the 
French frontier. The first meeting in the illuminated botanic garden, 
the mornings in the representative hall devoted to discussions, the gen- 
eral meetings for meals, the soirees and suppers, each served in their 
place, (for the Swiss, like the English, Germans, and Americans, love 
good cheer,) to promote the objects of the meeting. The subjects dis- 
cussed in the council hall, show exactly the point to which the country 
has advanced. They were the importance of agricultural schools, and 
of schools for teachers, of saving-banks or funds, and the question 
whether those who in time of plenty (like the Pharaohs of old) hoard 
lip grain to sell it at an advance in seasons of scarcity should not rather 
be considered benefactors of the public than objects of mob violence. 
The influence of high character was beautifully illustrated in one of 
these morning meetings. A warm debate had arisen upon the report 
of a committee projiosing to establish schools under the direction of the 
society. The more the subject was discussed the further men's opin- 
ions api^eared asunder. The keen politician of Geneva, with French 
vivacity, had made his declamation and ended with a i)hrase; the enthu- 
siastic clergyman of Vaud, with somewhat of the old Calvin fire, had 
replied; the veteran philanthropist of St. Gall had laid down the doc- 
trine by which he intended sturdily to abide. Union seemed impossible 
and discord probable, when there rose, near the president's chair, a man 

* Gem^mniitziffe GeselLschaft. 



126 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 

heavy in countenance and in person, with an embarrassed air and awk- 
ward address, the words of his first few sentences of miserahly pro- 
nounced French coming forth slowly, and almost by stammering. The 
natural reflection of a stranger would have been, why does that stupid 
man rise; what light can he expect to throw upon the question? Kot 
so, thought his countrymen. They i^new the mind that occupied this 
unpromising exterior, and all listened with entire attention to Hess, the 
burgomaster of Zurich, while by his own moderation he stifled the flame 
which had been burning so fiercely, and by his good sense united all the 
friends of education on a common ground of conciliation and compro- 
mise. The denial of self shown by thus using a language which was 
not familiar to him produced, also, doubtless a favorable impression. 
Those who afterward heard the same speaker in his vernacular rousing 
an assemblage by his eloquence, or moving them to laughter by his wit, 
must have found it difScult to recognize in the accomplished orator the 
embarassed speaker of the representative chamber. 

The canton of Geneva contains fifty-six thousand inhabitants, thirty 
thousand of whom live in the town. The adjoining canton of Vaud 
presents a strildug contrast in this as in other respects, out of one hun- 
dred and eighty thousand people, only fourteen thousand being inhab- 
itants of Lausanne, the capital, and only considerable town in the 
canton.* The people of Vaud pride themselves upon their ultra-repub- 
licanism, their orthodoxy in religion, their present moral and social 
condition, and the broad basis laid in their institutions for further 
improvement ; the carrying out of the cantonal motto of " liberty and 
country." Their constitution declares the sovereignty of the people and 
the equality of all citizens in the eye of the law, guarantees individual 
liberty, the right of property, the inviolability of domicile, the freedom 
of the press, and the right of petition. It provides for the separation 
of the legislative, executive, and judicial authorities, a feature so 
universal in our constitutions that we are surprised to find it gen- 
erally overlooked by the framers of the Swiss. All citizens have a 
right to vote at twenty-three years of «ge. The church is, as in 
all these countries, connected with the state, and is styled in the 
constitution the National Evangelical Reformed Church. Worship 
according to the forms of the Eoman Catholic Church is guaranteed 
to some of the communes, and there this church is also connected 
with the state. The voluntary church system as it exists with us is 
almost unknown, and it would be difScult to imagine the first effects of 
severing church and state among a people where the connection has 
always existed ; yet some of the clergy of Vaud look to the separation 
as conferring a desirable freedom upon their church. As evidences of 
the moral condition of Vaud may be mentioned that in 183G there was 

* The census of 1870 gives to the canton of Geneva a population of 89,416, whereof 
about one-half live in the city proper. According to the same authority, the canton of 
Vaud has a population of 229,596, and Lausanne 25,000. 



LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 127 

but one criminal for every one thousand seven hundred and eijjhty 
inhabitants; while in Massachusetts, also an agricultural community, 
there was last year one criminal in one hundred and fifty; and counting 
only natives of the State, one in seven hundred and fifty. These people 
have laid broad and deep the foundations of improvement in an 
admirable system of public instruction, combining, as all are of one mode 
of faith, religious and intellectual culture. The law declares that the 
happiness of a people is to be found in good morals and good instruction, 
and that in a free country every citizen should have put within his reach 
an education fitting him for his rights and duties. It has not stoi)ped 
at any point in public education, saying you of a certain class shall have 
such schools, and you such others, but has divided the schools accord- 
ing to the age and attainments of the children, and, for those on the 
threshold of active life, according to the probable future pursuit of the 
individual. Thus they have elementary schools, middle or industrial 
schools, a college, a university, and schools for male and female teachers. 
In a canton where suffrage is universal, the legislature has had the 
boldness to require that all children from the age of seven to sixteen 
shall be under instruction, unless capable of passing a certain examina- 
tion. Parents who neglect or refuse to send their children to school 
are cited before the authorities and fined ; in case of a repetition of the 
offense may be imprisoned, and thus deprived for a time of the rights 
of citizenshij). Whether this provision can be fully executed or not yet 
remains to be seen ; at present it is a salutary stimulus to the negli- 
gent. The ground of its adojition is, that universal suffrage requires 
universal education, and that as the law guarantees to citizens the one, 
it has a right to demand of them the other. The middle or industrial 
schools are colleges for business men preparing for the pursuits of com- 
merce and the mechanic arts, and bearing the same relation to these 
pursuits that the colleges do to the professions of medicine, law, and 
theology. The canton has a school for the deaf and dumb, and one for 
the blind at Yverdon. 

The prison discipline, like our own, puts in action the benevolent idea 
of reforming the delinquents; but the horror of solitary confinement 
which appears to exist in the mind of every one allied, even remotely, 
to the French has marred the system both in Lausanne and at Geneva. 
Happily the care which is taken in collecting the statistics of the prisouvS 
must gradually lead to a change. Finding that there are as many cases of 
recommitment now as under the old arrangement, they will see that 
with the gregarious system, even with work, there can be no reform. 

This canton was the last scene of the labors of the great reformer in 
education, Pestalozzi. At Yverdon, on the shores of Lake Neufchatel, 
in a castle erected for war, but turned to purposes of peace, he termi- 
nated his active, beneficent, but stormy life. He was the Bacon of 
education. Adhering rigidly to the laws of induction, he changed the 
very basis of the sciences. He combined those extraordinary qualities 



128 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 

of the German cliaracter, simplicity, enthusiasm, rationalism, and its 
opposite, mysticism. As a practical teacher he has been surpassed by 
many of his followers, but he was undoubtedly the founder of a new 
school in education. Eestless, and always dissatisfied with the results 
of his efforts, he began many times afresh, and to the last, with 
renewed hoi)e of entire success. Unqualified to manage pecuniary 
matters, his mind was always oppressed with the details of the economy 
of his schools as soon as they became large. Prussia owes the present 
improved condition of her burgher or citizen schools — for her " schools 
for the poor" — are poor indeed to the precepts and examples of those 
who drew both from Pestalozzi. A school nominally conducted upon 
his principles is still kept up in the old castle, but resembles much 
the deformed copies from the same model which we have seen in this 
country. 

Before leaving the southern part of Switzerland, let us pass for a few 
minutes into the canton of the Valais and among the Alps, not to ad- 
mire scenery but to observe Swiss enterprise. Eailroads are out of the 
question in such a country, and places for canals are rarely to be found, 
but improvements peculiar to the country take their places, and requii^e 
both skill and originality. 

In one of the narrow valleys of the Valais, a tributary to the Dranse 
(itself a branch of the Ehone) takes its rise in the melting snows of 
the glacier of Getroz. This mass of snow and ice is formed by the 
accumulation of snow upon two mountain flanks, which, descending and 
uniting in the gorge, are slowly pushed forward into the valley, melting 
as they advance, and feeding with innumerable rills the turbid Dranse. 
In the spring of 1818 the waters of the stream were very low, and as 
this circumstance had preceded a dreadful inundation of the valley of 
Bagnes in 1595, the peasants taking alarm moved up the valley to 
ascertain the present cause. They found that the fall of large blocks of 
ice from the glacier of Getroz, and of avalanches from the mountain 
sides, had completely dammed up the waters of the Dranse. The icy 
barrier is described to have been four hundred feet high, six hundred 
feet wide at the top, and three thousand feet at its base 5 the lake 
behind it was a mile and a quarter long, and at the barrier some fifty 
fathoms deep. The waters in this basin rose at the rate of two feet per 
day, and it was almost certain that finally, rising to a height capable of 
bursting the wall of ice which held them in, they would in their mighty 
rash sweep the valley to the very banks of the Ehone. The engineer 
of the canton, M. Yenetz, made a bold attempt to prevent this disaster, 
which, if it did not entirely succeed, gTcatly diminished the dreaded 
devastation. A tunnel through the ice was commenced at a sufficient 
height above the swelling waters to prevent their reaching the laborers 
before its completion. Two sets of workmen labored day and night for 
nearly a month in its formation. When first finished it was not of suf- 
ficient size to prevent the rise of the lake, but widening and deepening 



LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 129 

from the flow of water through it, in thirty-two hours it had drained 
otr ten feet in depth of the hike, and in twenty-four hours more, twenty 
feet. More than one-third of the water had thus eseaped when the 
action of the issuing cataract upon the base of the mound had so far 
weakened it by detaching hirge masses of ice, that th.e barrier was sud- 
denly burst asunder. tVith a dreadful noise the liberated waters took 
their way down the valley in one mountain wave, carrying before them 
enormous rocks, the forest and hill-side, fields, fruit-trees and fences, 
bridges and chalets, and furrowing or covering the low grounds with 
the debris of the mountains. The destruction is represented to have 
been terrible, in all but that of life api)roaching that of the previous 
catastrophe. The energies of this simple peoj^le were but for a time 
l^aralyzed by this dire misfortune, and means were almost immediately 
t;iken to repair its effects and prevent its recurrence. 

Captain Hall, who visited the scene just after the disaster, and again 
after an interval of fifteen years, thus speaks of the first appearance 
and of the change which industry had wrought during the interval : 
" We said to ourselves, that no time could ever restore their town (Mar- 
tigny) to prosperity, or reclothe their fields with verdure. Yet, only- 
fifteen years afterward, when I again visited this scene of utter, and, 
as it seemed, hopeless desolation, I could scarcely by any effort of the 
imagination recall the spot to my mind, or be persuaded that it really 
was the same ground 1 had seen laid waste. * * * « 

.The fields were all again thickly matted with verdure; the hedges and 
dividing walls appeared never to have been disturbed; flower-gardens 
and kitchen -gardens and grass-plots smiled on every side of this happy 
valley; apple-trees, laden with fruit, and rows of tall poplars marked 
out many lines of new and better roads than before, leading from new 
bridges which formerly had no existence." The date of the first disas- 
ter was found inscribed upon a beam in one of the chalets, accompanied 
by a set of letters ; the whole may be thus paraphrased : ]\I. O. E. | 
1595. I W. B. W. D. B. | T. G. O. G. The puzzle has been thus deci- 
phered by a Swiss Monkbarns : Maurice Olliet erected, 1595, when 
Bagnes was destroyed b}^ the glacier oi' Getroz. 

Friburg lies between Vaud on the south and Berne on the north. 
It was the ninth canton admitted intb the confederation. From having 
been the most aristocratic of all — some sixteen families governing 
seventy thousand people — it is now almost as liberal as Vaud. Suffrage 
is universal and the press is free. The religion of the state is Roman 
Catholic, the bishop still retaining the title of Bishop of Lausanne and 
Geneva. Party spirit, probably, run higher in this canton than in any 
other. Tiie old aristocracy has its friends, though in the minority. Tho 
republicans, who triumphed in the revolution of 1830, excluded tiie clergy 
from the councils, but their influence still maintains a party there, and 
the church itself is divided between the rival influences of the Cordeliers 
and of the Jesuits. There are nine convents in the canton, a lycevm 
9S 



130 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 

or college and a boardicg-scliool, iu tlie capital. The clergy liave not 
abandoned the claim, thongli deprived of the power to direct the secular 
instruction of t!ie people, to license and displace their teachers. The 
struggles of these parties and inliuences keep up a constant political 
excitement. 

It is difficult for a stranger vrho approaches tlie town of Friburg 
from the French cantons, on a da^' when the weekly fair is held, to be- 
lieve that a scene of real life is before him. The old battlemented walls, 
with their towers, carry us back to the days of arquebusses and culverins, 
or even to those of cross bows and catapults. The collection of peasants 
in the square, clad in the varied and picturesque costumes of the adjoin- 
ing districts, keeps np the illusion. It is easy to realize that such look- 
ing people should sing and dance, but that they should buy and sell in 
earnest is not so easily credited. There is some poetry left yet iu the 
exterior of life, at least in these countries. This thought was again 
awakened on finding myself in the cell of a monk in the convent of the 
Cordeliers. The vaulted ceiling, grated door, bare vvalls, the pallet bed 
and rude table, vv'itli missal and crucifix, the occupant clothed in coarse 
black serge, the cord of his order passing around his waist, produced a 
most singular efiect. There was riotliing in the manners and conversa- 
tion of the venerable Father Gir;ird to disjiel any illusion created by 
the circumstances ijround him, unless the faintest possible tinge of the 
world, such as he may have got while superintending the schools of his 
canton just ;>iter the revolution of 1814. Hoping to dull the edge of 
party sj)irit vv^hich he supposed attacked the schools because a Cordelier 
was at the head of them, he retired into voluntary exile for ten years, 
and returned, at the age of seveutj^-two, to die, as he said, at home, 
when his years would be an aj)ology for not mingling in public affairs, 
lie had returned to find his schools in incompetent hands, almost in 
decay, and his normal school, from a similar cause, on the point of 
being abolished. Imbued with the spirit of Pestalozzi, Father Girard 
gives to the languages as instruments for intellectual training the part 
which the great master assigned to the sciences j for economy's sake he 
adopted the monitorial system, but hoped to see the time when it might 
give place to a better. In his retire;nent his influence with the intelligent 
men of Switzerland was very great, and was exercised to forward the intel- 
lectual progress of his country. '' I love all men with Christian hearts, 
thougli they may not be orthodox iu formulary ; such is my profession of 
faith,'' was the catholic sentiment of this truly good man, reminding 
me of the beautiful lines of Wordsworth, written at Friburg : 

" Dooni'd as wo are our uativc dust 
To wet willi many a Litter shower, 

It ill beiiis us to disdain 

Tho altar, to deride the faun 
Where patient sufferers bend, in trust, 
To win a happier hour. 



LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 131 

" Where'er we roam, along the briuk 
Of Eliiuc, or by tbo aweepiug Po, 

Tbroiigb Alpine vale, or cbanipaign wide — 
Wbate'er avc look upon — at our side 
Be cbarity — to bid as tbiuk. 
And feci — if we would kuow." 

Tbe situatiou of Friburg lias afforded oppoituuity for two pieces ot 
characteristic enterprise. TLie cliaunel of the river Sariiie forms al- 
most a loop at tlie town, inclosing it on three sides, and flowing in a 
deep sandstone valley. The town occupies the top and sides of the 
promontory thus formed, and on the steep slope the tops of the houses 
below are on a level with the pavement of the streets above. Into this 
valley the road to Berne formerly descended, and mounted a precipitous 
hill on the other side of the strean:;, occupying, with its windings and 
the slovv' pace by which it was necessarily traversed, an hour, and to pass 
from one side of the valley' to the other, a distance in a straight line of 
some three hundred yards. A beautiful susjpension bridge now connects 
the upper plateau of the town with a point equally high on the oppo- 
site bank, the suspending cables of wire being firmly fastened iij th^ 
massive rock on either side, and passing over two neat piers of Jura 
limestone. This bridge was planned by an engineer of Lyons, but exe- 
cuted by Swiss workmen, and entirely with Swiss materials. The road- 
way is eight hundred and ninety-six feet in length between the piers, 
or two and a half times as long as the elegant structure of the same 
kind now erected over the Schuylkill at Philadelphia, and once and a 
half as long as the celebrated chain bridge over the Menai Strait in 
Wales. The road-way is suspended at the height of one hundred and 
seventy-four feet above the Saariue, and looking up from the valley the 
curved wire ropes which support the whole resemble nun^e cords pro- 
jected against the sky, vrhile the upright wires by which the platform 
hangs appear like cobwebs. The trials to v/hich this structure was sub- 
jected by the. authorities before receiving it were many and severe, the 
hardest that of marching across it two thousand i)eople keeping ste[) to 
music, the measured cadence producing a continually increasing vibra- 
tion, and trying the strength to the utmost. The successful completion 
of this work and its durability have led to the erection of a second of 
the same kind at another i^oint of the valley ; so that this little town of 
nine thousand inhabitants may novv' boast of two of the most beautiful 
bridges in the world. 

Berne, the capital of the largest and most populous canton of the 
Swiss confederacy, is, in appearance, thoroughly a Swiss town of the 
old school. Its site is a bold promontory, like that of Friburg, nearly 
surrounded by the Aar, a. tributary of the Ehine. The appearance of 
Berne is very quaint. Entering it irom the south, three gateways are 
passed in succession, at intervals from eacli other, beneath towers which 
mark so many epochs iu the extension of the walled town. Before the 



132 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 

use of artillery Berne was a place of great strength, tliesiteliaving been 
vselected in the twelfth century for its military jiroperties, by Berthold, 
of Ziihringen, the founder of the city. The fronts of the houses in the 
imncipal streets, as in the Italian towns of the Middle Ages, rest uj)on 
arcades, wliich form covered wallas for passengers. The heavy piers of 
the arcades render the shops dark, bat this inconvenience is more than 
counterbalanced by the protection from the winter's snow in a town 
almost among the Alps, and at an elevation of sixteen hundred feet 
above the sea. The streets are provided at intervals with fountains of 
curious devices and rude execution, in which, besides the figure of the 
bear in various " armor and attitude," are warriors and goddesses, and 
remarkable above all, the terror of children, the great Kinder-fresser, or 
ogre, Vv'ho, with the head and shoulders of one poor innocent in his gap- 
ing mouth, in the very act of swallowing, has a bag fullof similar choice 
mouthfuls about his neck, apparentl}^ struggling to escape the fate of 
their comrade. In one of the towers is the famous clock of kindred 
taste with the ogre. Before each hour a cock Ihips his wings and crows 
a warning. A figure representing Father Time reverses his hour glass, 
•and opens his mouth as if to cry aloud to the careless. At noon is the 
grand procession of the bears, who, marshaled by knights and soldiers, 
issue to the sound of music and pass before tlie figure of Time first on 
all fours, then half erect, and finally rampant, figuring thus the differ- 
ent conditions of the town of which they are the patrons. The figure 
now raises a wand and strikes the hour upon a mimic bell, keeping time 
with the striking of the clock ; the cock again flaps his wings, and for 
twenty-four hours the bears have rest. The regard for bruin in Berne 
has been the growth of ages. The accidental killing of a bear by the Dnke 
of Ziihringen on the day of founding the city placed the efQgj" upon the 
coat of arms, and i^erhaps gave name to the infant city, for Berne sig- 
nifies bear in the Swabiau dialect. The effigy of the bear was connected 
with the conquests of the warlike burghers, ajid the living animal kept 
to anuise the people by his antics. A whimsical old lady left a hand- 
some estate to the town to maintain a family of bears, forever, and in 
1798 the animal became associated with the misfortunes of t'le canton 
as it had been v»ith its rise and prosperity. The savings from the estate 
of the bears shared the fate of those of the canton, when the French 
armies appropriated the thirty millions of specie in the vaults of the 
treasury. The bears themselves were removed from their ditch and 
transported to Paris, the huge cage containing the father of the family 
having upon it the insulting inscription, not j'et forgotten by the people, 
of Avoyer (President) of Berne. One only lived to return to his home 
at the general restoration of the spoils of Europe, but the bears of the 
present generation appear to have forgiven or forgotten the sorrows of 
their parents, and, all unconscious of their own present dependent state, 
are as diligent in climbing i^oles, and as active in begging and quarrel- 
ing for nuts and gingerbread as if the present bear-ditch had always 



LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 133 

been the abode of both parents and cubs. How difficult it must ue for 
the men of Berne among the scenes of the Middle Ages, and with his- 
tory and tradition both fettering them, to keep up Vvith the progress of 
the times ; and yet they have done so in a very great degree, as a glance 
at the institutions of the republic will show. 

In 1785 there were but two hundred and thirty-six families, the 
members of which were eligible to the grand council, the governing 
body of a canton of three hundred thousand inhabitants, and of its 
tributaries, Vaud inclusive. These were the descendants of the original 
burghers of Berne, and of those whom they had admitted from time to 
time into their fraternity. Many of them were members of one of the 
five guilds, the bakers, butchers, tanners, smiths, and carriers, originally 
an aristocracy of working men. Of the two hundred and thirty-six 
families only seventy-six were eligible to the executive or lesser council, 
and twenty of these, by the preponderance of numbers, governed the 
State.- In ITDG there were twenty-two persons of the name and family 
of Steiger in the grand council, tifceen of Watwyl, and so on. It was 
certainly no easy task to undo the Gordian knot of such institutions, 
but the French invasion vSuudered it, and the complete seiiaration of 
social and political ties which followed prevented a firm reunion of the 
parts. A feeble aristocratic government v,'as restablished under the 
protection of Austria, after the French occupation ceased, and was 
continued until lcS30. At this time the revolution of the three days in 
Paris gave a new impulse to popular institutions by the support which 
it promised to hold out to their friends. The people of the country 
parts of Berne met in tiieir arrondissements and petitioned the govern- 
ment for an extension of popular rights. They were answered by pro- 
hibiting their assembling. They continued to meet, and the govtn'u- 
ment ordered out the militia to suppress these meetings, and collecting 
their most trustvvorthy troops in the town, closed the gates and pre- 
pared the cannon upon the ramparts for action against the peasantry. 
The militia refused to turn out ; the troops in the town declared their 
unwillingness to act against their countrymen. No attack was made, 
but the government wisely determined on abdication, declaring that on 
a certain day they would cease their functions if such was the will of 
the people. This was all that was desired. An assembly was called to 
frame a constitution, and without any violent shock, in October, 1831, the 
old aristo(;ratic government gave place to the new republican, in which 
although there is some leaven of the former aristocracy, it is not sufti- 
cient to leaven the lump. This is a true history of a Swiss republican 
revolution. The new constitution declares the sovereignty of the people, 
the liberty of the press, the right of the representative council to origin- 
ate measures, toleration of religion with an established national church. 
Every citizen is an elector of the first grade; and every hundred of 
them chooses an elector of the second grade, who votes for the repre- 
sentative council. As in the other cantons, with few exceptions, the 



134 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 

powers of government are mingled, and what strikes an American as 
even more strange, wiiilc tlie representative council is elected for six 
years, the judges chosen by them are elected bnt for live. 

One of the first steps of the new government was to reorganize and 
renovate public insti'uction. A visit to the normal school established 
by them mnst inspire bright anticipations of future improvement for 
the country. Patriotism, religious and moral feeling, and intelligence, 
are developed by precept and example in those who are hereafter to 
have the training of the Bernese youth. The industrious life of these 
future teachers, eleven hours being spent in the school-room, in receiv- 
ing or imi>arting instruction, their frugal fare, meat of any kind being 
l)laced before them but twice in each week, and their coarse clothing, are all 
shared witli them by the director of the institution. Severe exercise in 
the open air, tlirough the gymnastics so popular in Germany and Switzer- 
land, ('ounteracts, in a degree, the effect of this sedentary life upon their 
health. In addition to the bran(;hes usually cultivated in our schools, 
nuisic is made a part of the teacher's education, that he may, in turn, 
give instruction in it to all his pupils. The effect produced by the deep 
toned and well tuned voices of the young teachers in this normal school, 
engaged in singing, con amorc, some of the patriotic songs of their 
country, was one of the most moving that I ever experienced. What a 
fine material for republicans ! was the remark of the counsellor of state 
who accompanied me, the echo of the very feeling which was thrilling 
through me. Close by this school is Hofwyl, the celebrated institution 
of Emmanuel Felienberg. But to venture within its precincts would 
occupy you far longer than I am privileged to do. The system of this 
establishment, for it is notone school, but is composed of several schools 
of different grades, has served, in a degree, as a model for that of the 
canton, and has exerted a greater intluenco in and out of Svritzerlaud 
than any other single institution in the world. 

The new government has reorganized and improved many of the pub- 
lic establishments of the canton, and created new ones. Thus the two 
orphan houses of the city have already felt its favorable influence; a 
school for the deaf and dumb, and one for the blind, has been estab- 
lished under its patronage, and a new penitentiary has been erected for 
the introduction of the modern improvements in prison. discipline. In 
1811) women condemned for crimes swept the streets of Berne, and now 
the government is nearl}- prepared to adopt the Pennsylvania system of 
prison discipline. Surely the progress of this people has been worthy 
of, if not above, all praise. 

On the eastern side of the town the bank of the Aar is quite precip- 
itous, and from the parapet which crowns it a glimpse is had into that 
fiiiry-land, the Oberland of Berne. The peaks of its snow-clad hills, with 
their bold outline, cut sharply against the sky, presenting, in the course 
of a clear day, a beautiful variety of aspect, from the dark shadows cast 
by the rising sun, and the brilliancy of mid-day, to the delicate hues at 



LECTURE OX SWITZERLAND. 135 

sunset, and the asliy and almost ghastly paleness of the evening. One 
of the few things \Yhich cannot disappoint is a visit to the i3ernese Alps. 
Nature presents itself not only upon a grand scale, hut in unusual and 
varied forms. Lofty and precipitous mountains, rugged with rocks, 
and ice, and snow ; glaciers pushing their way from the steep mountain 
sides into the valleys; avalanches tumbling headlong from the heights, 
and with a roar like distant thunder buryiug their ice and snow in tho 
deep gorges ; cascades pouring from precipices so lofty tliat the water 
is dispersed in dust-like spray, in mid-air, or tumhhng from rock to 
rock in foaming .sheets ; pine-ciad hills, and valleys green with grass ; 
all these, in turn, rejoice the sight, while the unaccustomed modes 
of Alpine traveling invigorate the frame, and the spirits rise until 
they create a Avorld of enjoyment of their own. The works of man 
lend themselves to nature, to add to the picturesque character of these 
regions ; for the Swiss cottage, with its roof weighted with stones, its 
])rojecting eaves and outdoor galleries, is unlike a farm-house elsewhere, 
:uid the chalet, with its stable, dwelling, and dairy, all under one roof, 
yet separated with scrupulous regard to neatness, is as unlike a peas- 
ant's hut. The costume of the people, too, puts them to the eye of a 
stranger in constant masquerade, and the vocal music, with its curious 
falsetto tones, and the instrumental upon the wooden tube, or xilpine 
horn, are unlike what is to be heard in other countries. 

The valley of Grindelwald is itself more than three thousand feet 
above the level of the sea, and from it the Fauihorn rises three thou- 
sand more. The ascent of this mountain is by winding i)aths, along 
tlie base or on the brink of high rocks, by the side of ponds formed by 
the melting snow, through the snows themselves, to the very apex. 
Tben the whole district of the lakes of Brieutz and Thun is stretched out 
before and far below you, the lake of Lucerne and its mountains, the 
valleys of Lauterbrunnen and Grindelwald, the Alpine heights of the 
Eiger, the Monk, the Juugfrau, and others of this chain, far across to tiie 
mountains where the Ehine and the Ehone both have their sources. 
Above the region where the white hill-clouds of summer are formed and 
rest, when they occur spreading a deep shade over the valleys below, the 
top of the Fauihorn is in the full blaze of the sun, and the eye ranges from 
it upon the expanse of the tops of the white clouds, as over a vast plain 
of snow thrown into ridges b}" the wind, a mimic ocean of snow with the 
forms of waves without their motion. Life in a chalet upon such a moun- 
tain is very little like that in an inn down in the valley. The whole mouu- 
tiiin-top will hardly give elbow-room to the twenty or thirty people who 
come up on a line sunmier's day, much less will the chalet give room for 
exclusiveness in eating, drinking, or sleeping. Then, further, to break 
down reserve, the sunset is to be seen by all, and then the moon, at rising 
or setting, puts the whole sleeping houvSehold in motion, and again all are 
out to see the sun rise over the distant Alps. 

There are some traits by which one may infallibly recognize our coua- 



136 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 

trymen, and in tins cliiilefc witli ns was an undoubted American. He 
talked to every one who could speak bis vernacular, and spoke to every 
one wlio would give liis broken Freuclr an answer. His ineids were 
bolted down in haste. He fidgeted lest he should lose anything of the 
moon or sun rise, and actually turned out to witness the ibrmer in regii- 
lar Kickapoo style, wrapped in a blanket. He was restless to an excess, 
and talked all the time that others were absorbed in sentiment; for- 
getting his unpresentable condition, he even addressed some youn<j^ 
English ladies, who had certainly offered no special encouragement to the 
approach of any fellow-traveller, even in full costume. He was off 
among the first in the morning, and after the day's journey we met him 
in the evening at Meyringen, still talkative as ever, and his tones certi- 
fying that he came from the east of the Hudson ; so far, the very beau- 
ideal of the American figured by tourists. Here, however, he piqued my 
curiosity by the very un-American act of abusing the supper, as well as 
by some peculiarity of expression; and, entering into further conversa- 
tion with hi;n, I found that this undoubted American was last from Thread 
and Needle street, had been born and bred in the old country, and had 
not eveu trodden our republican soil. So much for national character- 
istics, which, like family peculiarities, may sometimes lead us to mis- 
take the father for the sou. 

On the way from the Oberland to Lucerne we pass a work of improve- 
ment well worthy of notice. At the foot of the Brunig Mountain, on 
the north side, is the small lake of Lungern, draining the slopes of a 
basin of moderate extent, and having originally no outlet. It is sepa- 
rated by a mountain ridge from the lake of Saruen, wliich commu- 
nicates with the lake of Lucerne. Lake Lungern is some four hun- 
dred feet higher than Lake Sarnen, so that by establishing a com- 
munication between them the former might be drained to any re- 
quired amount, and arable laud be thus gained upon the lake shore. 
A tunnel to establish this connection was begun in 1788, and after many 
delays was completed in 183G, at the cost of $25,000, and nineteen thou- 
sand days' work by the peasants. The winter season, when the lake is 
lowest, was chosen for completing the tunnel by breaking through a 
rocky barrier into Luke Lungern. The undertaking succeeded, and in 
ten days the water fell to the level of the mouth of the tunnel. A new 
and unforeseen danger now threatened the people of the village on the 
lake shore. The bank, no longer supported by the water, and exposed 
to the action of the frost, began to crack, and the earth separating from 
the underlying rock, threatened to precipitate the church and part of 
the village into the lake. In fact a slide did take place, but only to a 
limited extent, and by cutting the shores in terraces the progress of the 
evil has been stopped, and the gain of about five hundred acres of ara- 
ble land may be considered as permanent. 

The town of Lucerne, the capital of the canton of the same name, and 
formerly in rotation with Berne and Zurich, the seat of the sessions of the 



LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 137 

Swiss Diet, is beaatifully situated ou the lake of the Forest cantons, 
on a level piece of ground, at the point where the Eeuss issues from the 
lake to join the Lioimat in its course to the Rhine, Lucerne, on a gala 
day, presents an interesting sight to the stranger. When I saw it, the 
people in holiday dress were collecting from all quarters to the lake 
side; the long wooden bridges which join the different parts of the town, 
and the stone lined quays along the Eeuss, were thronged with people 
pressing toward the same point. Tiie women from the country wearing 
the hair plaited on the crown of the head, or black caps with mohair 
lace wings, and long plaits of hair and black ribbons falling down the 
back, accompanied by men in plain attire, all speaking the harsh patois 
derived from the Southern German. Even the bridge from the Abbey 
had its passengers, though now few indeed in numbers, and a few Cor- 
deliers were seen mingling with the throng. The windows of the tall 
houses near the wharf presented an array of the notables of Lucerne, 
and even some members of the diet might be pointed out to the stranger. 
The bells were ringing at intervals, and cannon pointed toward the 
lake were prepared for a salute. The American smiles complacently 
when told the cause of all this circumstance. The first steamboat navi- 
gating the lake is expected on its first return trip from Altdorf, and 
even now may be seen rounding a neighboring point. The excitement 
increases as the wonderful boat approaches, and we are carried in im- 
agination back to the days of 1807, when New York poured out its popu- 
lation to greet the return of the first adventure of the great Fulton. 
No doubt now mingles, as then it did, with expectation, and amid the 
hoarse noise of loud German exclamations and hurrahs, and the discharge 
of artillery, the boat approaches. It is wonderful to see how at once 
the art of managing the vessel has been acquired ! How imitative a 
creature man is ! The captain is mounted upon the wheel-guard directing 
tlie pilot and engineer with his hand. The headway is checked judi- 
ciously, and now the boat nears the wharf. Yv'^ith what precision and 
skill this manoBuvre is executed for the first time ! The thought is hardly 
complete, when rising loud and clear above the hoarse gutturals of the 
mob, comes to do away all mystery, to explain the whole, in good home- 
spun English, the well-known cry of "Stop her!" The engine was 
built in England, put up by Englishmen, and is now managed in its first 
trial by them • and thus the mechanics and manufacturers of that great 
nation lay not only Switzerland, but all the continent of Europe, under 
contribution, as a return for the money spent abroad by her travelers. 

The Swiss Confederacy is, politically considered, even a weaker gov- 
ernment than ours was under the old Articles of Confederation ; at all 
events weaker for every purpose not merely military. The act of con- 
federation now in force dates from 1815, and all the attempts made 
since its adoption to modify it so as to produce a stronger government, 
by cementing the union more closely, have failed. The cantonal spirit 
resists the least encroachments upon its independence. The act of con- 



138 LECTURE OX SWITZERLAND. 

federation guarantees to each canton its liberty, its independence, its 
safety from foreign aggression, and peace and tranquillity v.ithin. To 
maintain this guarantee and to preserve the armed neutrality of Switzer- 
land, a contingent of 33,000 inen and $1-10,000 is required from the can- 
tons in proportion to their population and other circumstances. 
The modified constitution declared ever}- Swiss to be a soldier, express- 
ing only what is the fact, the military spirit being kept constantly 
alive from the belief that it is essential to the independence of the coun- 
try. In case of the invasion of a canton, or of violence against tho 
actual government, the confederation is bound, upon a summons, to 
an armed intervention; and, in case of necessity, a neighboring canton 
may lend its aid. This provision has been a fertile source of difficulty, 
for on the one hand the cantons claim the right of revolution, and, on 
the other, the diet that of intervention. The cantons have no right to 
form leagues with each other. No privileged classes may be established 
in any of them. The transit of articles of merchandise and manu- 
factures, and of the necessaries of life, through the ditl'erent cantons is 
guaranteed. Such are the leading articles of the constitution. 

The diet is the highest authority of the confederacy, and consists of 
deputies from the twentj^-two cantons, who vote, unless specially in- 
vested with discretionary power, according to instructions derived from 
the cantonal governments. Each canton has one vote in the diet. The 
regular meetings of this body are held yearly', and the senior deputy of 
the canton where the meeting is held presides. Executive power during 
the recess of the diet may be vested in the authorities of the canton 
vv'here the meeting of the year is to be held, or in a special executive 
council. Tlie diet declares war and makes treaties of i)eace and alliance; 
such measures requiring a majority of three-fourths of the votes.* 

In the summer of 1837 the diet met at Lucerne. The stormy session 
of the year before at Berne, in which they had borne themselves so gal- 
lantly in opposition to the demands of France, was still fresh in the 
recollection ; but wUh the adjustment of the difficulties the excitement 
produced by them had subsided. On that occasion it was said that 
Switzerland had spoken even in a boasting tone, or, in the language of 
the French journalists, as if she v/ere a first-rate i)ower instead of a 
fourth. The national feeling which dictated this tone may be explained 
and felt by the remark of Professor Monnard, of Vaud, by whom the 



* The foregoing remarks apply to tlie iiolitical condition of tlie Swiss Confederation 
previous to the 12th of September, 1843, when the revised federal constitution now in 
force was adopted. This instrument is very similar to that of the United States, only 
paying somewhat more deference to states rights, and vesting the executive i^ower in 
a cabinet (federal council) elected by congress in joint session, the chairman whereof 
being denominated President of Switzerland. The legislative authority is vested in a 
federal assembly, (congress,) composed of a national council (house of representatives) 
and a staenderath or States council, (senate ;) the supremo court and executive au- 
thority being both elected by the federal assembly or congress, in joint session, in which 
is vested the supremo power of the land. Berne is the permanent capital. 



LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 139 

tlireatening language was spoken, "we cannot recogiiize a first-rate and 
a second-rate national honor."' 

There is still something of the " feudalism of democracy'," as a dis- 
tinguished author has called it, in the ceremonies of the diet, walking 
in procession to their hall where their deliberations take place, wearing 
cloaks embroided with the arms of their cantons, and even of more than 
one color, received by double rows of guards, and deliberating with 
swords by their sides. The antiquated costumes are destined to disap- 
I)ear with many feudal forms, but the delegates from those cantons, the 
democratic, where the least change has taken place in their institutions, 
are wedded to their old garments as well as to the old constitution. In 
the hall of meeting twenty-one seats are arranged about an oval table 
for the senior representatives, the president having his seat at the one 
extremity of the table, and the consulting deputies occupying small 
tables in the rear. The members do not rise when addressing the chair, 
which has an awkward effect, and must be embarrassing to the lively 
delegates of the Italian and French cantons ; but all minor embarrass- 
ments yield to that of the use of three different languages, the French, Ger- 
man, and Italian, by members from the different cantons, while a major- 
ity of the deputies understand but one. A glance at these representa- 
tives will illustrate the difficulties of forming a Swiss union. What has 
the man of Tessin really in common with him of Geneva '? The one is a 
Koman Catholic, the other a Calviuist; the one a republican of the most 
democratic school, the other an arit^tocrat by principle, and perhaps by 
birth ; the one is from a rough pastoral or agricultural district, the other 
from a city where the more refined mechanic arts flourish ; the one from 
a small coramunity, all the members of which are nearly equal in the 
means of life and in education, the other from a town where wealth and 
education are very unequally distributed; the one in speech an Italian, 
the other a Frenchman. Again, what has the educated and polished 
professor of Lausanne, or the merchant and banker of Basle, in common 
with the peasant of Appenzele or the shepherd of IXril With all these 
diversities they are brought together in part by a sentiment — the love 
of liberty ; in part by a necessity — that of mutual defense. The progress 
of the cantons in education and the arts of life will doubtless draw their 
bonds gradually closer, and to have attempted a union in 1832 is to 
have laid the basis for it at some other time. Meanwhile the confeder- 
ation, if it does not directly aid the cantons in their career of improve- 
ment, at least goes far to guarantee the continuation of that peace which 
is essential to progress. 

Let us turn our backs upon the mountains, to glance merely, for that 
is all that can be attempted, at Zurich, one of the cantons of the plain, 
if any part of Switzerland can be called a plain ; one of the farthest 
advanced of all in the mechanic arts, manufactures, education, and good 
governmeut. Here the republican change was brought about in 1830, 
by a simijle change of administration, the council not being required to 



140 LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. 

abdicate as at Berue, and np to this time a struggle for power goes on 
hetween the partisans of a former order of things and tiie clergy against 
the new order, and, from time to time, one or the other influence pre- 
vails. The canton, meanwhile, steadily advances. Suffrage is univer- 
sal ; the right to vote beginning at twenty years of age. 

The i)rogress of the canton since the new order of things may be best 
illustrated by a few facts. The press is free, the legislative, executive, 
and judicial departments have been separated, public instruction has 
been set forth as one of tlie first duties of the state, and invasion of 
domicile has been declared unlawful. To these intellectual improve- 
ments may be added i>hysical or material ones; good roads have been 
made throughout the canton and stage coaclies ])ut ux>on them, so that 
instead of ten or tv/elve people leaving Zurich, or entering it, per day, 
there are now one hundred and ten. The poor tax is at the rate of but 
Scents per annum for each citizen inhabiting the canton; the cluirch 
rate 18 cents ; and the expense of the civil list 20 cents. Finally the 
revenue in 1832 exceeded the expenditure by $100,000, and this surplus 
has been devoted to the cause of material and intellectual improvement. 

From the hasty and imperfect glance which we have now taken to- 
gether of republican Switzerland, what conclusion may we draw as to 
the capacity of the principle v/hich connects these people, to produce 
their happiness, their moral, intellectual, and physical improvement? 

In the distance which separates us from them the minuter sh;;des of 
character are lost. We do not discern the men of Geneva, of Vaud, of 
Berne, and of Zurich, but the men of Switzerland. Standing out from the 
picture, like the lofty summits of their own mountain chains, are the 
prominent characteristics of the people. Frugality, perseverance, hardy 
enterprise, high moral and religious feeling, lofty patriotism ; these are 
tlie characteristics of the Swiss nation. 

How far these noble qualities are the result of their political institu- 
tions, or whether the institutions owe their origin to these very qualities 
of the people, it is needless to inquire, since what greater praise can be 
awarded than the truth, that the institutions of Switzerland are in har- 
mony with the free spirit of the people, and the spirit of the people with 
their noble rei)ublican institutions. 



ON A PHYSICAL OBSEEVATORY. 



By Pkof. Joseph Henry. 



Smithsonian Institution, 

Washington, December 29, 1870. 

My Deah Sir : Yours of the 28tb of November was duly received, but 
I delayed answering it until the pressure of business which accumulated 
during my absence should have somewhat subsided, and, also, that I 
might receive the plans which you mention. I am now gratified in 
being able to inform you that my visit to Europe was both pleasant 
and profitable, and that I have returned much iiai^roved in health and 
with enlarged views as to the present state of science in the Old World. 

While abi-oad I gave special attention to physical observatories, of 
which there are several in England and on the continent, although 
there is no one which fally realizes my idea of what such an establish- 
ment ought to be. 

A physical observatory is one the primary object of which is to in- 
vestigate the physical piienomena of the earth and the heavenly bodies 
in contradistinction to an ordinary astronomical observatory, which is 
principally devoted to the observation and discussion of the motions of 
the planets, and the determination of the relative positions of the fixed 
stars. Of the latter kind but one or two are needed in any country, 
and as these require a numerous corps of observers and computers they 
can only be supported by appropriations annually from a national gov- 
ernment. The United States Observatory at Washington is of this 
character, and, including all expenses, requires an annual appropriation 
of at least $50,000. The labors of such an observatory are indispens- 
able to the advancement of the science of theoretical astronomy, and its 
application to geodesy and geography. 

The establishment I would advise you to found is of the character of 
the one first mentioned, namely, a i)hysical observatory, the jmncipal 
object of which would be, as 1 have indicated, to investigate the nature 
and changes of the constitution of the heavenly bodies; to study the 
various emanations from these in comparison with the results of experi- 
ments, and to record and investigate the difterent phenomena which are 
included under the general term of terrestrial i>hysics. 

A wide field has been opened for the stndy of the nature of the sun 
and other heavenly bodies by the application of the spectroscope, dif- 
ferent modifications of the telescope, and other lately invented appliances. 
We now know thatthesunis undergoing remarkable changes, the charac- 
ter of which can only be ascertained by the results of accurate observa- 
tions compared with those of experimental investigation. The observer 



142 ON A PHYSICAL OBSER.VATOEY. 

should divide Lis attention between tlie plienomeijii revealed by a criti- 
cal and continued examination of tlic sun and the production of similar 
phenomena in the laboratory. In this way European investigators have 
arrived at most interesting results. 

Again, Vv'e know that the emanations from the sun, and probably 
from the stars, differ essentially in character. There is, first, the em;s 
nation known as light, which of itself consists of various rays, which 
generally indicate the incandescence of substances, which give the 
sensation of different colors, and those v.iiich, in their ordinary condition, 
are impercei^tible to the eye, but vrhich may be perceived by that organ 
after they have passed through certain liquids; next, the heat emana- 
tion, which is also of different kinds; then the chemical emanation, by 
which photographic impressions are i)roduced; and, lastly, the i)hospho- 
rogenic emanation, which abounds also in the electric discharge, and 
which produces the glow of the diamond and the luminosity of the com- 
pounds of lime, barium, and other substances with sulphur. To study 
these or other emanations as they may appear in the fixed stars, or are 
reflected from the moon and planets, or as they may be found in the 
aurora borealis, the zodiacal light, and in shooting-stars or larger mete 
ors, requires i)eculiar instruments, and such as are not found, at present^ 
in ordinary astronomical observatories. For example, the celestial phe- 
nomena which address themselves to the sense of sight are studied by 
means of refracting telescopes, as are, also, those of the photographic 
ray, although this requires a i^eculiar form of lens, while the he;it-ra;> 
of lower intensity and the phosphorogenic ray are not transmitted b.^ 
glass; the former is readily converged to a focus by a lens of rock-sair, 
and the latter by one of quartz. They may all, however, as in the case 
of light, be concentrated into foci by metallic reflectors. 

In regard to terrestrial physics, the phenomena are also various, and 
t!:e forces by which they are produced are constantly changing both in 
ii: tensity and, in some cases, in direction. We now know that the 
n;agnetism of the earth scarcely remains the same from one mom.ent to 
another, and that these changes are connected with the appearance of 
the aurora borealis and electrical discharges in the atmosphere. They, 
also, in all probability, may ultimately be referred to disturbances pro- 
duced by external inlluences, such as those from the sun, moon, and 
])lanets. Furthermore, we may now consider the whole earth as an 
immense conductor charged with negative electricitTy-, of which the 
intensity is in a continued state of change, and of which a knov.ledge of 
the laws, as well as those of tlie changes of magnetism, is highly desira- 
ble. For the proper study of these, continuous self-recording instru- 
ments are necessary. 

There is also an important field of observation in regard to ordinary 
meteorology, such as the changes of the pressure of the atmosphere, 
and its connection with other phenomena; of the norma! and abnormal 
wuuds; isolated currents of the atmosi)here, and especial!}' those of a. 



ON A PHYSICAL OBSERVATORY. 143 

vertical direction ; the radiation of heat from clouds and different ter- 
restrial surfaces; tlie variation of its intensity In ascending above and 
penetrating- below the surface of the earth, &c. In short, the field is 
almost boundless, and every year reveals new facts in terrestrial and 
celestial physics, v»iiich never fail to furnish new points for investigation 
to those who are qualified by education and endowed by nature for 
their proper appreciation. 

The conductor of an observatory, such as I have mentioned, to be 
successful, must have peculiar characteristics. He must possess a 
minute knowledge of all the latest discoveries in i)hysics, a keen eye to 
detect new appearances, imagination to suggest h^-pothetical causes, 
logical power to deduce consequences from these to be tested by obser- 
vation or experiment, and ingenuity to devise apparatus for verifying 
or disproving his deductions. When such a man is found he should be 
consecrated to science and fully furnished with all t!io implements 
necessary for the prosecution of his researches, those of physics as well 
as of astronomy, and himself and family placed beyond all anxietj'as to 
the supply of their necessary wants. It may not be amiss to combine 
with his studies and duties, in the waj^ of research, a small amount of 
lecturing — -just enough by sympathetic communication with admirinj*- 
pupils to fan, as it were, his enthusiasm, and to impart a portion of it to 
others. Ho should also have at his command a skillful workman, who, 
under his direction, could construct the temporary apparatus which are 
constantly required in original research. It is also important that he 
be associated with the faculty of a well-endowed college or university, 
to which he will become an important acquisition both in regard to the 
reputation which he will give to the institution, and the efi'ect he will 
have on the other members of the faculty in the way of stimulating- 
them to higher efforts. In such an association he can call for the coop- 
eration of the i)rofessors, and especially that of the physicist, the 
chemist, and the mathematician. 

One of the most important points, perhaps, to vrliich I should call 
your attention is that of the building to be erected, since, from the ten- 
dency to error in this line, more injury has resulted to public institu- 
tions in this country than from any other cause. It should be recollected 
that "money is power;" that every dollar possesses a definite amount of 
potential cn(>rgy, as it were, which can always command intellectual or 
l>hysical labor. But money as a powxr is unlike all other kinds of power, 
in that it is, by judicious investment, capable of yielding a constant 
supply of energy, in the way of interest, without- diminishing the origi- 
nal amount, it is, therefore, in the highest degree injudicious in the 
founding of an establishment to exhaust the source of its power by 
architectural displays not absolutely required, and which may forever 
involve a continual expense from the remaining funds to kee]) them in 
repair. As a general rule, the buildings of educational or scientific in- 
stitutions should be gradually evolved from the experieisce and wants 



144 ON A PHYSICAL OBSERVATORY. 

(' 

of the esiaWishment, and not, as is too frequently the case, from a priori 
misconceptions of those who have no adequate idea of the uses to which 
the structure is to be applied. It should be impressed upon the public 
that huildings do not constitute an institution, and that reputation and 
usefulness in science do not flow from visible and tangible manifesta- 
tions, but are the immaterial fruit produced by the spirit of an organiza- 
tion. I trust that millions of human beings yet unborn will be familiar 
with the intellectual results of your observatory, although a single in- 
quiry may never be made as to the style of the building in which these 
results have been ijroduced. 

My advice, then, would be : first, if possible, that the right man be 
procured for director; secondly, that the principal instruments be con- 
structed under his supervision ; and, thirdly, that the operations be com- 
menced in an inexpensive wooden building, which will be found better 
in many respects for physical and astronomical observations than one 
of stone and brick. The instruments could be insured, I should think, 
at a small premium, and in that case, if destroyed by fire, might be re- 
placed by others embracing the improvements which may have been 
suggested in the mean time. 

As an illustration of what I have just said in regard to the building, 
I may niention that in a visit to Mr. Lockyer I found him carrying on a 
series of observations which have challenged the admiration of the world 
in a temporary structure made of rough boards, nnplastered, and 
scarcely including a space of fifteen feet square. 

As to the location of your observatory, you will infer from what I 
have said that I think it important to connect it with some well-endowed 
and well-established college or university. 

JOSEPH riENRY, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institntloii. 
To . 



THE HISTORY OF MY YOUTH: AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARA60. 



[To keep up the series of publicatious of eulogies of distingnislied men, which has 
been a special feature of the Aispendix to the Sniithsouiau Reports, the following auto- 
biography and the eulogies of Herschel and Fourier are copied from the volume, now 
out of print, of the trauslations by the late Admiral Smyth, the late Eev. Baden 
Powell, and Prof. Grant, from the works of Arago. — J. H] 

I have not the foolish A^anity to imagine that any one, even a short 
time hence, will have the curiosity to find ont how my first education 
was given, and how my mind was developed ; but some biographers, 
writing off-hand and without authority, having given details on this 
subject utterly incorrect, and of a nature to imply negligence on the part 
of my i)arents, I consider myself bound to put them right. 

I was born on the 20th of February, 1780, in the commune of Estagel, 
an ancient province of lloussillon, (department of the Eastern P^-renees.) 
My father, a licentiate in law, had some little property in arable land, in. 
vineyards, and in plantations of olive trees, the income from which sup- 
ported his numerous family. 

I was thus three years old in 1789, four years old in 1790, five years 
in 1791, six years in 1792, and seven years old in 1793, &c. 

The reader has now himself the means of judging whether, as has 
been said, and even stated in print, I had a hand in the excesses of our 
first revolution. 

My parents sent me to the primary school in Estagel, where I learned 
the rudiments of reading and writing. I received, besides, in my 
father's house, some private lessons in vocal music. I was not otherwise 
either more or less advanced than other children of my age. I enter 
into these details merely to show how much mistaken are those who 
have printed that at the age of fourteen or fifteen years I had not yet 
learned to read. 

Estagel was a halting place for a portion of the troops who, coming 
from the interior, either went on to I?erpignan, or repaired direct to the 
army of the Pyrenees. My parents' house was therefore constantly full 
of officers and soldiers. This, joined to the lively excitement which the 
Spanish invasion had produced within me, inspired me with such de- 
cided military tastes that my family was obliged to have me narrowly 
watched to prevent my joining by stealth the soldiers who left Estagel. 
It often happened that they caught me at a league's distance from the 
village, already on my way with the troops. 

On one occasion these warlike tastes had nearly cost me dear. It was 
the nigbt of the battle of Peires-Tortes. The Spanish troops in their 
retreat had partly mistaken their road. I was in the square of tlie vil- 
10 s 



146 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FEANCIS ARAGO. 

lage before daybreak. I saw a brigadier and five troopers come up, 
who, at the sight of the tree of liberty, called out, " Somos i)crdidos !■' 
I rau immediately to the house to arm myself with a lance which had 
been left there by a soldier of the levee en masse, and placing myself in 
ambush at the corner of a street, I struck with a blow of this weapon 
the brigadier i)laced at the head of the party. The wound was not dan- 
gerous. A cut of the saber, however, was descending to punish my 
hardihood, when some countrymen came to my aid, and, armed with 
forks, overturned the five cavaliers from their saddles, and made them 
prisouers. I was then seven years old.* 

My father having gone to reside at Perpignan, as treasurer of the 
mint, all the family quitted Estagel to follow him there. I was then 
placed as an outdoor pupil at the municipal college of the town, where 
I occupied myself almost exclusively with my literary studies. Our 
classic authors had become the objects of my favorite reading. But the 
direction of my ideas became changed all at once by a singular circum- 
stance which I will relate. 

AValki ng one day on the ramparts of the town, I saw an officer of en- 
gineers who was directing the execution of the repairs. This officer, 
M. Cressac, was very young. I had the hardihood to approach him and 
to ask him how he had succeeded in so soon wearing an epaulette. " I 
come from the Polytechnic School,"' he answered. "What school is 
that?" " It is a school which one enters by an examination."' " Is much 
expected of the candidates I" " You will see it in the programme which 
the government sends every year to the departmental administration ; 
you will find it moreover in the numbers of the journal of the school, 
which are in the library of the central school." 

I rau at once to the library, and there, for the first time, I read the 
programme of the knowledge required in the candidates. 

From this moment I abandoned the classes of the central school, where 
I was taught to admire Corneille, Eacine, La Fontaine, Moliere, and 
attended only the mathematical course. This course was intrusted to 
a retired ecclesiastic, the Abbe Verdier, a very respectable man, but 
whose knowledge went no farther than the elementary course of La 
Caille. I saw at a glance that M. Verdier's lessons would not be suffi- 
cient to secure my admission to the Polytechnic School; I thei'efore 
decided on studying by myself the newest works, wliich I sent for from 
Paris. These were those of Legendre, Lacroix, and Gamier. In going 
through these works I often met with difficulties which exceeded my 
powers ; happily, strange though it be, and perhaps without example in 
all the rest of France, there was a proprietor at Estagel, M. Raynal, who 
made the study of the higher mathematics his recreation. It was in his 
kitchen, while giving orders to numerous domestics for the labors of 

* With such precocious heroism it is by no meaus so clear that the author might not 
have had a hand ia the revolution, from which he endeavors above to exculpate him- 
self. 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 147 

the next day, that IM. Eaynal read with advantage the " Hydraulic Archi- 
tecture" of Prony, the " Mecanique Analytique," and the " Mecauique 
Celeste." This excellent man often gave me useful advice ; but I must 
say that I found my real master in the cover of M. Garnier's " Treativse 
on Algebra." This cover consisted of a printed leaf, on the outside of 
which blue paper was pasted. The reading of the page not covered 
made me desirous to l^now what the blue paper hid from me. 1 took oft" 
this paper carefully, having first damped it, and was able to read under- 
neath it the advice given by d'Alembert to a young man who communi- 
cated to him the difliculties which he met with in his studies : " Go on, 
sir, go on, and conviction will come to you." 

This gave me a gleam of light; instead of persisting in attempts to 
comprehend at first sight the propositions before me, I admitted their 
truth provisional!}'. I went on farther, and was quite surprised, on the 
morrow, that I comprehended perfectly' what over-night appeared to me 
to be encompassed with thick clouds. 

I thus made myself master, in a year and a half, of all the subjects 
contained in the i^rogramme for admission, and I went to Montpellier 
to undergo the examination. I was then sixteen years of age. M. Monge, 
jr., the examiner, was detained at Toulouse by indisposition, and wrote 
to the candidates assembled at Montxiellier that he would examine them 
in Paris. I was myself too unwell to undertake so long a journey, and 
I returned to Perpignan. 

There I listened for a moment to the solicitations of my family, who 
pressed me to renounce the prospects which the Polytechnic School 
opened. But my taste for mathematical studies soon carried the day. 
I increased my library with Euler's "Introduction a I'Analyse Infinitesi- 
male," with the " Eesolution des Equations Numeriques," with Lagrange's 
" Theorie des Fonctions Aualytiques," and " Mecanique Analytique," and 
finally with Laplace's " Mecanique Celeste." I gave myself up with great 
ardor to the study of these books. From the journal of the Polytechnic 
School, containing such investigations as those of M. Poissou on Elimi- 
nation, I imagined that all the pupils were as much advanced as this 
geometer, and that it would be necessary to rise to this height to suc- 
ceed. 

From this moment I prepared myself for the artillery service, the 
aim of my ambition ; and as I had heard that an officer ought to under- 
stand music, fencing, and dancing, I devoted the first hours of each day 
to the cultivation of these accomplishments. 

The rest of the time I was seen walking in the moats of the citadel of 
Perpignan, seeking by more or less forced transitions to pass from one 
question to another, so as to be sure of being able to show tlie examiner 
how far my studies had been carried.* 

* Mdchain, iiicmber of the Academy of Sciences aud of tlie lustitntc, was charged 
in 1792 with the piolongatiou of the measure of the arc of the mcx-idian iu Spaiu, as I'ar 
as Barcelona. 

Duriug his operations iu the Pyrenees, iu 1794, he had known my father, who was 



148 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

At last the moment of examination arrived, and I went to Toulonse 
in company with a candidate who liad studied at the public college. It 
was the first time that jiupils from Perpignan had appeared at the com- 
petition. My intimidated comrade was completely discomfited. When 
1 repaired after him to the board, a very singular conversation took 
place between M. IMonge, the examiner, and me. 

"If yon are going to answer like jour comrade, it is useless for me 
to question you." 

"Sir, my comrade knows much more than he has shown; I hope I 
shall be more fortunate than he; but what you have just said to me 
might well intimidate me and deprive me of all my powers." 

"Timidity is always the excuse of the ignorant; it is to save you 
from the shame of a defeat that I make you the proposal of not exam- 
ining you." 

" I know of no greater shame than that which you now inflict upon 
me. Will you be so good as to question me? It is your duty." 

"You carry yourself very high, sir; we shall see presently whether 
this be a legitimate pride." 

"Proceed, sir; I wait for you." 

M. Monge then put to me a geometrical question, which I answered 
in such a way as to diminish his prejudices. From this he passed on to 
a question in algebra, to the resolution of a numerical equation. I had 
the work of Lagrange at my fingers' ends; I analyzed all the known 
methods, pointing out their advantages and defects; Newtoji's method, 
the method of recurring series, the method of depression, the method 
of continued fractions; all were passed in review; the answer had 
lasted an entire hour. Monge, brought over now to feelings of great 
kindness, said to me, " I could, from this moment, consider the exam- 
ination at an end. I will, however, for my own pleasure, ask you two 
more questions. What are the relations of a curved line to the straight 
line which is a tangent to it "? " I looked upon this question as a particular 

one of the admiaistrators of thedepartment of Ihe Eastern Pyrenees. Later, in 18C3, 
Avlien the question Avas agitated as to tbc continuation of the measure of tlie meridian 
line as far as the Balearic Islands, M. Mechain went again to Perpignan, and came to 
pay mj father a visit. As I was ahout setting elf to undergo the examination for ad- 
mission at the Polytechnic School, my father ve-ntnred to ask hini whether he could 
not recommend me to M. Monge. '•"Willingly," answered he ; "biit, with the frank- 
ness which is my characteristic, I ought not to leave you luiawarc that it ap^iears to 
me imin'obable that your son, left to himself, can have rendered himself completely 
master of the subjects of which the programme cousists. It', however, he be admitted 
let him be destined for the artillery or for the engineers. The career of the sciences of 
which you have talked to me is really too difdcult to go through, and, unless he had 
a special calling for it, your sou would only find it deceptive." Anticipating a little 
the order of dates, let us compare this advice with what occurred. I went to Tou- 
louse, underwent the examination, and was admitted. Oue year and a half afterward 
I tilled the situation of secretary at the Observatory, which had become \acant by the 
resignation of M. M6chain's sou. One year and a half later, that is to say, four years 
after the Perpignan " horoscope," associated with M. Biot, I filled the place, in Spain, 
of the celebrated acadeuuciau who had died there, a victim to his labors. 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 149 

case of the tlieory of osculations wliicli I had studied in Lagraiip^e's 
"Fonctious Analytiqucs." " Finally," said the examiner tome, "how 
do you determine the tension of the various cords of which a funicul;».r 
machine is composed? " I treated this problem according to the method 
expounded in the "Mecauique Analytique." It was clear that Lagrange 
had supplied all the resources of my examination. 

I had been two hours and a quarter at the board. M. Monge, going 
from one extreme to the other, got up, came and embraced me, and sol- 
emnly declared that I should occupy the first place on his list. Shall I 
confess it ! During the examination of my comrade I had heard the 
Toulousian candidates uttering not very favorable sarcasms on the 
pupils from Perpignan ; and it was principally for the sake of reparatioii 
to my native town that M. Mouge's behavior and declaration trans- 
ported me with joy. 

Having entered the Polytechnic School, at the end of 1803 I was 
placed in the excessively boisterous brigade of the Gascons and Britons. 
I should have much liked to study thoroughly physics and chemistry, 
of which I did not CA^en know the first rudiments; but the behavior of 
my companions rarely left me any time for it. As for analysis, I had, 
already, before entering the Polytechnic School, learned much more thaji 
was required for leaving it. 

I have just related the strange words which M. Monge, jr., addressed 
to me at Toulouse in commencing my examination for admission. 
Something analogous occurred at the opening of my examination 
in mathematics for passing from one division of the school to another. 
The examiner, this time, was the illustrious geometer Legendre, of 
whom, a few years after, I had the honor of becoming the colleague au<l 
the friend. 

I entered his studj^ at the moment when M. T , who was to undergo 

his examination before me, having fainted away, was being carried out 
in the arms of two servants. I thought that this circumstance would 
have moved and softened M. Legendre; but it had no such efi'ect. 
"What is your name," he said to me sharply. "Arago," 1 answered. 
"You are not .French, then?" "If I was not French I should not be 
before you ; for I have never heard of any one being admitted into the 
school unless his nationality had been proved." "I maintain that he is 
not French, whose name is Arago." " I maintain, on my side, that I am 
French, and a very good Frenchman, too, however strange my name 
may appear to you." " Very well; we will not discuss the point farther; 
go to the board." 

I had scarcely taken up the chalk, when M. Legendre, returning to 
the first subject of his preoccupations, said to me : "You were born in 
one of the departments recently united to France?" "No, sir; I w;ts 
born in the department of the Eastern Pyrenees, at the foot of the 
Pyrenees." "Oh! why did you not tell me that at once? All is now 
explained. Y'ou are of Spanish origin are you not?" "Possibly; but 



150 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FEANCIS ARAGO. 

iii my bumble family there are no authentic documents preserved wliicli 
could enable me to trace back the civil position of my ancestors. Eacli 
one there is the child of his own deeds. I declare to you again that 1 
am Fi-ench, and that ought to be sufficient for you." 

The vivacity of this last answer had not disposed M. Legendre in my 
favor. I saw this very soon ; for, having j)ut a question to me which 
required the use of double integrals, he stopped me, saying: "The 
method which you are following was not given to you by the professor. 
Whence did you get it?" "From one of your papers." "Why did 
you choose it? Was it to bribe me?" "Xo; nothing w^as farther from 
my thoughts. I only adopted it because it appeared to me preferable." 
" If you are unable to explain to me the reasons for your preference, 
I declare to you that you shall receive a bad mark, at least as to 
character." 

I then entered upon the details which established, as I thought, that 
the method of double integrals was in all points more clear and more 
rational than that which Lacroix had exi)ounded to us in the amphi- 
theater. From this moment Legendre appeared to me to be satisfied, 
and to relent. 

Afterward, he asked me to determine the center of gravity of a spher- 
ical sector. "The question is easy," I said to him. "Very well; since 
you find it easy, I will complicate it; instead of supposing the density 
constant, I will suppose that it varies from the center to the surface 
according to a determined function." I got through this calculation 
A'ery happily; and from this moment I had entirely gained the favor of 
the examiner. Indeed, on my retiring, he addressed to me these words, 
v.'hich, coming from hisn, appeared to my comrades as a very favorable 
augury for my chance of promotion : " I see that you have employed your 
time well; go on in the same way the second year, and we shall part 
very good friends." 

In the mode of examination adopted at the Polytechnic School in 1804, 
which is always cited as being better than the present organization, room 
was allowed for the exercise of some unjustifiable caprices. Would it 
be believed, for example, that the old M. Barruel examined two pupils 
at a time in physics, and gave them, it is said, the same mark, which 
was the mean between the actual merits of the two ? For my part, I 
was associated with a comrade full of intelligence, but who had not 
studied this branch of the course. We agreed that he should leave the 
answering to me, and we found the arrangement advantageous to both. 

As I have been led to speak of the school as it was in 1804, I will say 
that its faults were less those of organization than those of personal 
management ; for many of the professors were much below their office, 
a fact which gave rise to somewhat ridiculous scenes. The pupils, for 
instance, having observed the insutticiency of M. Hassenfratz, made a 
demonstration of the dimensions of the rainbow, full of errors of calcu- 
lation, but in which the one compensated the other so that the final 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 151 

result was true. The professor, who had only this result whereby to 
judge of the goodness of the answer, when he saw it appear on the board, 
did not hesitate to call out, '' Good, good, perfectly good!" Mhich excited 
shouts of laughter on all the benches of the amidiitheater. 

When a professor has lost consideration, without which it is impossible 
for him to do well, they allow themselves to insult him to an incredible 
extent. Of this I will cite a single specimen. 

A pupi>, M. Leboullenger, met one evening in company' this same M 
Hassenfratz, and had a discussion with him. When he reentered the 
school in the morning, he mentioned this circumstance to us. "Be on 
your guard," said one of our comrades to him; "you will be interrogated 
this evening. Play with caution, for the professor has certainly pre- 
pared some great difficulties so as to cause laughter at your expense." 

Our anticipations were not mistaken. Scarcely had the pupils arrived 
in the amphitheater, when M. Hassenfratz called to M. Leboullenger, 
who came to the board. 

"M. Leboullenger," said the professor to him, "you have seen the 
moon?" "ISTo, sir." "How, sir! you say that you have never seen tho 
moon"?" "I can only repeat ray answer — no, sir." Beside himself, and 
seeing his prey escape him, by means of this unexpected answer, M. 
HassenlTatz addressed himself to the inspector charged with the observ- 
ance of order that day, and said to him, " Sir, there is M. Leboullenger, 
who pretends never to have seen the moon." "What would you wish 
me to do?" stoically replied M. Le Brun. Repulsed on this side, the pro- 
fessor turned once more toward M. Leboullenger, who remained calm 
and earnest in the midst of the unspeakable amusement of the whole 
amphitheater, and cried out with undisguised auger, "Yoii persist in 
maintaining that you have never seen the moon?" "Sir," returned the 
pupil, " I should deceive you if I told you that I had not heard it spoken 
of, but I have never seen it." "Sir, return to your place." 

After this scene, M. Hassenfratz was but a professor in name ; his 
teaching could not longer be of any use. 

At the commencement of the second year I was appointed '■^clief dc 
IrigadeP Hatchette had been professor of hydrography at Collioure ; 
Ids friends from Eoussillon recommended me to him. He received me 
with great kindness, and even gave me a room in his lodgings. It was 
there that I had the pleasure of making Poisson's acquaintance, who 
lived next to us. Every evening the great geometer entered my room, 
and we passed entire hours in conversing on politics and mathematics, 
which is certainly not quite the same thing. 

In the course of ISOI the school was a prey to political passions, and 
that through the fault of the government. 

They wished forthwith to oblige the pupils to sign an address of con- 
gratulation on the discovery of the conspiracy in which Moreau was 
implicated. They refused to do so on the ground that it was not for 
them to pronounce on a cause which had been in tlie hands ^- justice. 



152 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

It must, however, be remarked, that Moreau liad not yet dislionorecl 
himself by taking service in the Eiissiau army, which had come to attack 
the French under the walls of Dresden. 

The impils were invited to make a manifestation in favor of the insti- 
tution of the Legion of Honor. This agaiu they refused. They knew 
well that the cross, given without inquiry and without control, would 
be, in most cases, the recompense of charlatanism, and not of true 
merit. 

The transformation of the consular into the imperial government gave 
rise to very animated discussions in the interior of the school. 

Many pupils refused to add their felicitations to the mean adulations 
of the constituted bodies. 

General Lacuee, who was appointed governor of the school, reported 
this opposition to the Emperor. 

" M. Lacuee," cried Napoleon, in the midst of a group of courtiers, 
who applauded with speech and gesture, " you cannot retain at the 
school those x>upils who have shown such ardent republicanism ; you 
will send them away.-' Then, collecting himself, he added, " I will first 
know their names and their stages of i)romotion." Seeing the list the 
next day, he did not x>roceed further than the first name, which was the 
first in the artillery. " I will not drive away the first men in advance- 
ment," said he. "Ah ! if they had been at the bottom of the list ! M. 
Lacuee, leave them alone." 

jSTothing was more curious than the seance to which General Lacuee 
came to receive the oath of obedience from the pupils. In the vast 
amphitheater w^hich contained them, one could not discern a trace of 
the gravity which such a ceremony should insijire.. The greater part, 
instead of answering, at the call of their names, "' I swear it," cried out, 
" Present." 

All at once, the monoton^y of this scene was interrupted by a pupil, 
son of the Conventionalist Brissot, who called out in a stentorian voice, 
"I will not take the oath of obedience to the Emperor." Lacuee, pale, 
and with little presence of mind, ordered a detachment of armed pupils 
placed behind him to go and arrest the recusant. The detachment, of 
which I was at the head, refused to obey. Brissot, addressing himself 
to the General, with the greatest calmness said to him, " Point out 
the place to which you wish me to go; do not force the pupils to dis- 
honor themselves by laying hands on a comrade who has no desire to 
resist." 

The next morning Brissot was expelled. 

About this time, M. Mechain, who had been sent to Spain to prolong 
the meridional line as far as Formentera, died at Castellon de la Plana. 
His son, secretary- at the observatory, immediately gave in his resigna- 
tion. Poissou offered me the situation. I declined his first proposal. 
I did not wish to renounce the military career, the object of all my pre- 
dilections, and in which, morever, I was assured of the protection of 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FEANCIS AKAGO. 153 

jrarslial Lances, a friend of my fatlier's. Nevertheless I accepted, on 
trial, the position otiered me in the observatory, after a visit vhioh I 
made to M. de Laplace in company with M. Poisson, under the esi)ress 
condition that I could reenter the artillery if that should suit me. It 
was from this cause that my name remained inscribed on the list of the 
pupils of the school. I was only detached to the observatory on a 
special service. 

I entered this establishment, then, on the nomination of Poisson, my 
friend, and through the intervention of Laplace. The latter' loaded me 
with civilities. I was happy and proud when I dined in the line de 
Tournon with the great geometer. My mind and my heart were much 
disposed to admire all, to respect all, that was connected with him who 
had discovered the cause of the secular equation of the moon, had found 
in the movement of this planet the means of calculating the ellipticity 
of the earth, had traced to the laws of attraction the long inequalities 
of Jupiter and of Saturn, &c., »S:c. But what was my disenchantment 
when one day I heard Madame de Laplace, approaching her husband, 
say to him, '' Will you intrust to me the key of the sugar." 

Some days afterward, a second incident affected me still more vividly. 
M. de Lai)lace's son was i)reparing for the examinations of the Poly- 
technic School. He came sometimes to see me at the observatory. In 
one of his visits I explained to him the method of continued fractions, 
by help of which Lagrange obtains the roots of numerical equations. 
The young man spoke of it to his father with admiration. I shall never 
forget the rage which followed the words of Emile de Laplace, and the 
severity of the reproaches which were addressed to me, for having pat- 
ronized a mode of proceeding which may be very long in theory, but 
which evidently can in no way be found fault with on the score of its 
elegance and precision. Never had a jealous prejudice shown itself 
more openly, or under a more bitter form. "Ah !" said I to myself, 
"how true was the inspiration of the ancients when they attributed 
weaknesses to him who nevertheless made Olympus treud)le by a frown." 

Here I should mention, in order of time, a circumstance w'hich might 
have produced the most fatal consequences for me. The fact was this : 

I have described above, the scene which caused the expulsion of 
Brissot's son from the Polytechnic School. I had entirely lost sight of 
him for several months, when he came to pay me a visit at the obser 
A'atory, and placed me in the most delicate, the most terrible i^osition- 
that an honest man ever found himself in. 

"I have not seen you," he said to me, "because since leaving the 
school I have practiced daily firing with a pistol; I have now acquired 
a skill beyond the common, and I am about to employ it in ridding 
France of the tyrant who has confiscated all her liberties. My measures 
are taken ; I have hired a small room on the Carrousel, close to the 
place by which Napoleon, on coming out from the court, will pass to 



154 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

review the cavahy ; from tlie Immble window of my apartmeut will tlie 
ball be fired wbicb will go tbrough bis bead.'' 

I leave it to be imagined witb wbat despair I received tbis confidence. 
I made ever}- imaginable eflbrt to deter Brissot from bis sinister project: 
1 remarked bow all tbose wbo bad rusbed on enterprises of tbis nature bad 
been branded in bistory b^' tbe odious title of assassin. Notbing suc- 
ceeded in sbaking bis fatal resolution ; I only obtained from bim a 
liromise on bis bouor tbat tbe execution of it sliould be postponed for a 
time, and I put myself in quest of means for rendering it abortive. 

Tbe idea of announcing Brissot's project to tbe autborities did not 
even enter ray tbougbts. It seemed a fatality wbicb came to smite me, 
and of wbicb I must undergo tbe consequences, bowever serious tbey 
migbt be. 

I counted mucb on tbe solicitations of Brissot's motber, already so 
cruelly tried during tbe revolution. I went to ber bome, in tbe Eue de 
Conde, and implored ber earnestly to cooperate witb me in preventing 
her sou from carrying out bis sanguinary resolution. "Ab, sir," replied 
tbis lady, wbo was naturally a model of gentleness, "if Silvaiu" (tbis 
was tbe uame of ber son) "believes tbat be is accomplisbing a patriotic 
duty, 1 bave neitber tbe intention nor tbe desire to turn bim from bis 
project." 

It was from myself tbat I must bencefortb draw all my resources. I 
had remarked tbat Brissot was addicted to tbe composition of romances 
and pieces of poetry. I encouraged tbis passion, and every Sunday, 
above all, wben I knew tbat there would be a review, I went to letch 
him, and drew bim into tbe countrj', in tbe environs of Paris. I listened 
then complacently to the reading of tbose chapters of his romance 
which he had composed during the week. 

Tbe first excursions frightened me a little, for, armed witb bis pistols, 
Brissot seized every occasion of showing bis great skill; and I retlected 
tbat this circumstance would lead to my being considered as bis accom- 
plice, if be ever carried out his project. At last, bis pretensions to 
literary' fame, which I flattered to tbe utmost, tbe ho])es (though I bad 
none myself) wbicb I led him to conceive of the success of an attach- 
ment of which he bad confided tbe secret to me, made bim receive with 
attention tbe reflections which I constantly made to him on bis enter- 
prise. He determined on making a journey beyond tbe seas, and thus 
relieved me from the most serious anxiety which I bave experienced in 
all my life. 

Brissot died after having covered tbe walls of Paris with printed 
handbills in favor of the Bourbon restoration. 

I had scarcely entered the observatory, when I became tbe fellow- 
laborer of Biot in researches on the refraction of gases, already com- 
menced by Borda. 

While engaged in tbis work tbe celebrated academician and I often 
conversed on tbe interest there would be in resuming in Spain the 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 155 

measurement iuterrupted by the deatli of Mecbain. TVe submitted our 
project to Laplace, who received it with ardor, procured the necessary 
lands, and the government confided to us two this important mission. 

M. Blot, I, and the Spanish commissary Eodriguez departed from 
Paris in tlie commeucemeut of 1806. AVe visited, on our way, the 
stations indicated by Mechaiu, we made some important modifications 
in the projected triangulation, and at once commenced operations. 

An inaccurate direction given to the reflectors established at Iviza, 
on the mountain Campve^^, rendered the observations made on the con- 
tinent extremely difficult. The light of the signal of Campvey was 
very rarely seen, and I was, during six months, in the Bcsierto de las 
Falmas, without being able to see it, while at a later period the light 
established at theDesierto, but well directed, was seen every evening from 
Campvey. It will easily be imagined what must bo the ennid experienced 
by a young and active astronomer, confined to an elevated peak, having 
for his walk only a space of twenty square meters, and for diversion 
only the conversation of two Carthusians, whose convent was situated 
at the foot of the mountain, and who came in secret, infringing the rude 
of their order. 

At the time when I write these lines, old and infirm, my legs scarcely 
able to sustain me, my thoughts revert involuntarily to that epoch of 
my life when, young and vigorous, I bore the greatest fatigues, and 
walked day and night, in the mountainous countries which separate the 
kingdoms of Valencia and Catalonia from the kingdom of Aragon, in 
order to reestablish our geodesic signals which the storms had overset. 

I was at Valencia toward the middle of October, 180G. One morning 
early the French consul entered ray room quite alarmed: "Here is sad 
news," said M. Lanusseto me; "make preparations for your departure; 
the whole town is in agitation ; a declaration of war against France 
has just been published; it appears that w^e have exi)erieuced a great 
disaster in Prussia. The Queen, we are assured, has put herself at the 
head of the cavalry and of the royal guard; a part of the French army 
has been cut to pieces ; the rest is completely routed. Our lives Avould 
not be in safety if we remained here ; the French ambassador at Mad- 
rid will inform me as soon as an American vessel now at anchor in the 
'Grao' of Valencia can take us on board, and I will let you know as 
soon as the moment is come." This moment never came; for a few 
days afterward the false news, which one must suppose had dictated 
the proclamation of the Prince of the Peace, was replaced by the bul- 
letin of the battle of Jena. People who at first played the braggart 
and threatened to root us out suddenly became disgracefully cast down ; 
we could w^alk in the town, holding up our heads, without fear hence- 
forth of being insulted. 

This proclamation, in which they spoke of the critical circumstances 
in which the Spanish nation was placed ; of the dilidculties which encom- 
passed this people; of the safety of their native country; of laurels, 



153 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

ami of tlio god of victory; of enemies with whom tbey ouglit to figiit — 
did not contain the name of France. Tiiey availed themselves of this 
omission (will it be believed?) to maintain that it was directed against 
Portugal. 

Napoleon pretended to believe in this absurd interpretation ; but from 
this moment it became evident tliat Spain would sooner or later be 
obliged to render a strict account of the warlike intentions which she 
had suddenly evinced in ISOo; tliis, without justifying the events of 
Bayonne, explains them in a very natural way. 

I was expecting M. Biot at Valencia, he having undertaken to bring 
some new instruments with which we were to measure the latitude of 
Formentera. I shall take advantage of these short intervals of repose 
to insert here some details of manners, which may, perhaps, be read 
with interest. 

1 will recount, in the first instance, an adventure which nearly cost me 
my life under somewhat singular circumstances : 

One day, as a recreation, I thought I could go, with a fellow-country- 
man, to the fair at Murviedro, the ancient Saguntum, which they told 
me was very curious. I met in the town the daughter of a Frenchman 

resident at Valencia, j\Idlle. B . All the hotels were crowded; 

Mdlle. B invited us to take some refreshments at her grand- 
mother's; we accepted; but on leaving the house she informed us that 
our visit luid not been to the taste of her betrothed, and that we must 
be prepared for some sort of attack on his part ; we went directly to an 
armorer's, bought some pistols, and commenced our return to Valencia. 

On our way I said to the calezero, (driver,) a man whom I had em- 
ployed for a long time, and who was much devoted to me: 

"Isidro, I have some reason to believe that we shall be stopped; I 
warn you of it, so that you may not be surprised at the shots which 
wull be lired from the caleza," (vehicle.) 

Isidro, seated on the shaft, according to the custom of the country, 
answered: 

"Your pistols are completely useless, gentlemen; leave me to act; 
one cry will be enough ; my mule will rid us of two, three, or even four 
men." 

Scarcely one minute had elapsed after the calezero had uttered these 
words, when two men presented themselves before the mule and seized 
her by the nostrils. At the same instant a formidable cry, which will 
never be efiaced from my remembrance — the cry of Capiiana! — was 
uttered by Isidro. The nude reared up almost vertically, raising up 
one of the men, came down again, and set off at a rapid gallop. The 
jolt which the carriage made led us to understand too well what had 
just occurred. A long silence succeeded this incident; it was only 
interrupted by these words of the calezero, "Do you not think, gentle- 
men, that iny mule is worth more than any pistols?" 

The next day the Captain General, Don Domingo Izquierdo, related 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 157 

to me that a man had been found crushed on the road to Murviedro. 
I gave him an account of the iHowess of Isidro's mule, and no more 
was said. 

Que anecdote, taken from among a thousand, will show what an 
adventurous life was led b}' the delegate of the Bureau of Longitude. 

During my stay on a mountain near Cullera, to the north of the 
mouth of the river Xucar, and to the south of the Albufera, I once con- 
ceived the project of establishing a station on the high mountains 
which are in front of it. I went to see them. The alcaid of one of the 
neighboring villages warned me of the danger to which I was about to 
expose myself. "These mountains," said he to me, "form the resort of 
a band of highway robbers." I asked for the national guard, as I had 
the power to do so. M3' escort was supposed by the robbers to be an 
expedition directed against them, and they dispersed themselves at 
once over the rich plain which is watered by the Xucar. On my return 
I found them engaged in combat with the authorities of Cullera. 
Wounds had been given on both sides, and, if I recollect right, one 
alguazil was left dead on the plain. 

The next morning I regained my station. The following night was a 
horrible one ; the rain fell in a deluge. Toward night there was knock- 
ing at my cabin door. To the question "Who is there?" the answer 
was, "A custom-house guard, who asks of you a shelter for some hours." 
My servant having opened the door to him, I saw a magnificent man 
enter, armed to the teeth. He laid himself down on the earth, and went 
to sleep. In the morning, as I was chatting with him at the door of my 
cabin, his eyes flashed on seeing two persons on the slope of the mountain, 
the alcaid of Cullera and his principal alguazil, who were coming to pay 
me a visit. "Sir," cried he, "nothing less than the gratitude which I 
owe to you, on account of the service which you have rendered to me 
this night, could prevent my seizing this occasion for ridding myself, 
by one shot of this carabine, of my most cruel enemy. Adieu, sir!" 
And lie departed, springing from rock to rock as light as a gazelle. 

On reaching the cabin, the alcaid and his alguazil recognized in the 
fugitive the chief of all the brigands in the country. 
Ij Some days afterward, the weather having again become very bad, 
I received a second visit from the ijretended custom-house guard, who 
i went soundly to sleep in my cabin. I saw that my servant, an old sol- 
i dier, who had heard the recital of the deeds and behavior of this man, 
I was preparing to kill him. I jumped down from my camp bed, and, 
seizing my servant by the throat, "Are you mad ?" said I to him; " are 
we to discharge the duties of police in this country? Do you not see, 
moreover, that this would expose us to the resentment of all those who 
obey the orders of this redoubted chief? and we should thus render.it 
impossible for us to terminate our operations." 

Xext morning, when the sun rose, I had a conversation with my guest, 
which I will try to reproduce faithfully. 



158 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

"Your situation is perfectly known to me; I know tbat you are not 
a custom-house guard ; I have learned from certain information that you 
are the chief of the robbers of the country. Tell me whether 1 have any- 
thing; to fear from your confederates." 

"The idea of robbing you did occur to us, but we concluded that all 
your funds would be in the neighboring towns; that you would carry 
no money to the summit of mountains, where you would not know what 
to do with it, and that our expedition against you could have no fruitful 
result. Moreover, we cannot pretend to be as strong as the King of 
Spain. The King's troops leave us quietly" enough to exercise our in- 
dustry, but on the daj^ that we molested an envoy from the Emperor of 
the French, they would direct against us several regiments, and we 
should soon have to succumb. Allow me to add, that the gratitude 
which I owe to you is your surest guarantee." 

"Very well, I will trust in your words; I shall regulate ray conduct 
by your answer. Tell me if I can travel at night; it is fatiguing to me 
to move from one station to another in the day under the burning 
influence of the sun." 

"You can do so, sir; I have already given my orders to this purpose; 
they will not be infringed." 

Some days afterward I left for Denia ; it was midnight, when some 
horsemen rode up to me, and addressed these words to me: 

"Stop there, sefior; times are hard; those who have something must 
aid those who have nothing. Give us the keys of your trunks; we will 
only take your superfluities." 

I had already obeyed their orders, when it came into my head to call 
out, " But I have been told that I could travel without risk." 
"What is your name, sir?" 
" Don Francisco Arago." 

" Hombre ! varja listed con Dios,''^ (God be with you.) 
And our cavaliers, spurring away from us, rapidly lost themselves in a 
field of " algarrobas." 

When my friend the robber of Cullera assured me that I had nothing to 
fear from his subordinates, he informed me at the same time that his 
authority did not extend north of Valencia. The banditti of the north- 
ern part of the kingdom obeyed other chiefs, one of whom, after having 
been taken, was condemned and hung, and his body divided into four 
quarters, which were fastened to posts on four royal roads, but not with- 
out their having previously been boiled in oil, to make sure of their 
longer preservation. 

This barbarous custom produced no effect, for scarcely* was one chief 
destroyed before another presented himself to rejilace him. 

Of all these brigands those had the worst reputation who carried on 
their depredations in the environs of Oropeza. The proprietors of the 
three mules on which M. Rodriguez, I, and my servant were riding one 
evening in this neighborhood were recounting to us the "grand deeds" 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 159 

of tLesc robbers, which, even in full daylight, would have made the hair 
of one's head stand on end, when, by the faint light of the moon, we 
perceived a man hiding himself behind a tree. We were six, and yet 
this sentry on horseback had the audacity to demand our purses or our 
lives. My servant at once answered bim, " You must then believe us to 
be very cowardly ; take yourself off, or 1 will bring you down by one 
shot of my carabine." " I will be off," returned the worthless fellow, 
" but you will soon hear news of me." Still full of fright at the remem- 
brance of the stories which they had just been relating, the three " arie- 
ros " besought us to quit the high road and cast ourselves into a wood 
which was on our left. We yielded to their proposal, but we lost our 
way. " Dismount," said they, " the mules have been obeying the bridle, 
and you have directed them wrongly. Let us retrace our way as far as 
the high road and leave the mules to themselves; they will well know 
how to find their right way again." Scarcely had we effected this ma- 
neuver, which succeeded marvellously well, when we heard a lively dis- 
cussion taking place at a short distance from us. Some were saying, 
" We must follow the high road, and we shall meet with them," Others 
maintained that they must get into the wood ou the left. The barking 
of the dogs, by which these individuals were accompanied, added to the 
tumult. During this time we pursued our way silently, more dead than 
alive. It was two o'clock in the morning. All at once vre saw a faint 
light in a solitary house ; it was like a light-house for the mariner in the 
midst of the tempest, and the only means of safety which remained to 
us. Arrived at the door of the farm, we knocked and asked for hospi- 
tality. The inmates, very little reassured, feared that we were thieves, 
and did not hurry themselves to open to us. 

Impatient at the delay, I cried out, as I had received authority to do 
so, " In the name of the King, open to us." They obeyed an order thus 
given; we entered pell-mell, and in the greatest haste, men and mules 
into the kitchen, which was on the ground tloor; and we hurried to ex- 
tinguish the lights, in order not to awaken the suspicions of the bandits 
who were seeking for us. Indeed, we heard them, passing and repassing 
near the house, vociferating with the whole force of their lungs against 
their unlucky late. We did not quit this solitary house until broad 
day, and we continued our route for Tortosa, not without having given 
a suitable recompense to our hosts. I wished to know by what provi- 
dential circumstance they happened to have a lamp burning at that 
unseasonable hour. " We had killed a pig," they told me, " in the course 
of the day, and we were.busy preparing the black puddings." Had the 
pig lived one day more, or had there been no black puddings, I should 
certainly have been no longer in this world, and I should not have the 
opportunity to relate the story of the robbers of Oropeza. 

jSTever could I better appreciate the intelligent measure by which the 
constituent assembly abolished the ancient division of France into prov- 
inces, and substituted its division into departments, than in traversing 



ISO AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

for my triangulation the Spnuisli border kingdoms of Catalonia, Valen- 
cia, and Aragon. The inhabitants of these three provinces detested 
each other cordially, and nothing less than the bond of a common hatred 
was necessary to make them act sinniltaneonsly against France. Such 
was their animosity in 1807 that I could scarcely make use at the same 
time of Catalonians, Aragons, and Valencians, when I moved with my 
instruments from one station to another. The Valencians in particular 
were treated by the Catalonians as a light, trifling, inconsistent people. 
Thej" were in the habit of saying to me, " Uii cl rcino de Valencia la came 
es vcrdura, lavcrdura agua, lo,s homhrcs mugerefiy las mugeres «ac?<;/," which 
may be translated thus: ''In the kingdom of Valencia meat is a vege- 
table, vegetables are water, men are women, and women nothing." 

On the other hand, the Valencians, speaking of the Aragons, used to 
call them '■'■ schurosP 

Having asked of a herdsman of this province who had brought some 
goats near to one of my stations what was the origin of this denomina- 
tion, at which his compatriots showed themselves so offended: 

"I do not know," said he, smiling cunningly at me, "whether I dare 
answer you." " Go on, go on," I said to him, " I can hear anj-thing 
without being angry." " Well, the word schuros means that, to our great 
shame, we have sometimes been governed by French kings. The sov- 
ereign, before assuming power, was bouiid to promise under oath to 
respect our freedom, and to articulate in a loud voice the solemn words 
lo Juro! As he did not know how to pronounce the J, he said scluiro. 
Are you satisfied, senor '?" I answered him, " Yes, yes ; I see that vanity 
and pride are not dead in this country." 

Since I have just spoken ot a shepherd. I will say that in Spain the 
class of individuals of both sexes destined to look after herds appeared 
to me always less further removed than in France from the pictures 
wiiich the ancient poets have left us of the shepherds and shepherdesses 
in their pastoral poetry. The songs by which they endeavor to while 
away the tedium of their monotonous life are more remarkable in their 
form and substance than in the other European nations to which I have 
had access. I never recollect without surprise that, being on a mountain 
situated at the junction-point of the kingdoms of Valencia, Aragon, and 
Catalonia, I was all at once overtaken by a violent storm, which forced 
me to take refuge in my tent, and to remain there squatting on the 
ground. When the storm was over and I came out from my letreat, I 
heard, to my great astonishment, on an isolated peak which looked down 
upon my station, a shepherdess, who was singing a song, of which I only 
recollect these eight lines, which will give an idea of the rest : 



A los qno amor no sabcn 
Ofreces las dulzuras 

Y a mi las auiargiiras 
Que s'o lo que cs amar. 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FKANCIS AEAGO. 161 

Las gracias al me certe 

Eran cnadro do flores 
Te cantabaii amorese 

For hacerte callar. 

Oil! bow much sap there is in this Spanish nation! What a pity 
that they will not make it yield fruit ? 

In 1807, the tribunal of the Inquisition existed still at Valencia, and 
at times performed its functions. The reverend fathers, it is true, did 
not burn people, but they pronounced sentences in which the ridiculous 
contended with the odious. Dariug my residence in this town, the 
holy office had to busy itself about a i)retended sorceress; it doomed 
her to go through all quarters of the town astride on an ass, her face 
turned toward the tail, and naked down to the M'aist. Merely to ob- 
serve the commonest rules of decency, tbe poor woman had been plas- 
tered with a sticky substance, partly honey, they told mo, to which 
adhered an enormous quantity of little feathers, so that, to saj^ the 
truth, the victim resembled a fowl with a human head. Tiie proces- 
sion, whether attended b}- a crowd I leav^e it to be imagined, sta- 
tioned itself for some time in the cathedral square, where I liv^ed. I was 
told that the sorceress was struck on the back a certain number of blows 
with a shovel ; but I do not venture to affirm this, for I was absent at 
the moment when this hideous procession passed before my windows. 

We thus see, however, vviiat sort of spectacles were given to the 
people in the commencement of the nineteenth century, in one of the 
]uincipal towns of Spain, the seat of a celebrated university, and the 
native country of numerous citizens distinguished by their knovvdedge, 
their courage, and their virtues. Let not the friends of humanity and 
of civilization disunite; let them form, on the contrary, an indissoluble 
union, for superstition is always on the watch, and waits for the 
moment again to seize its prey. 

I have mentioned in the course of .my narrative that two Carthusians 
often left their convent in the Bcsierto cle las Falinas, and came though 
prohibited, to see me at my station, situated about two hundred meters 
higher. A few particulars will give an idea of what certain monks 
were, in the Peninsula, in 1807. 

One of them. Father Trivulce, was old ; the other was very young. 
The former, of French origin, hhd played a part at Marseilles, in the 
counter-revolutionary events of which this town was the tLeater, at the 
commencement of our first revolution. His part had been a very active 
one; one might see the i^roof of this in the scars of saber cuts which 
furrowed his breast. It was he who was the first to come. When ho 
saw his young comrade march up, he hid himself; but as soon as the 
latter had fully entered into conversation with me. Father Trivulce 
showed himself all at once. His appearance had the effect of Medusa's 
head. " Reassure yourself," said he to his young compeer ; " only let 
us not denounce each other, for our prior is not a man to pardon us for 
lis 



1G2 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

baviug come liere aud iiifiiuged our vow of silence, and we should both 
receive a punishment, the recollection of which would long remain." 
The treaty was at once concluded, and from that day forward the two 
Carthusians came very often to converse with me. 

The youngest of our two visitors was an Aragonian; his fiimily had 
made him a monk against his will. lie related to me one day, before M. 
Biot, (then returned from Tarragon, where he had taken refuge to get 
cured of his fever,) some i)articulars which, according to him, proved 
that in Spain there was no longer more than the ghost of religion. 
These details were mostly borrowed from the secrets of confession. M. 
Biot manifested sharply the displeasure which this conversation caused 
him ; there were even in his language some words which led the monk 
to suppose that M. Biot took him for a kind of spy. As soon as this 
suspicion had entered his mind, he quitted us without saying a word, 
and the next morning I saw him come up early, armed with alight gun. 
The French monk had preceded him, and had whispered in my ear the 
danger that threatened my companion. "Join with me," he said, " to 
turn the young Aragonian monk from his murderous project." I need 
scarcely say that 1 employed myself with ardor in this negotiation, in 
which I had the happiness to succeed. There were here, as must be 
seen, the materials for a chief of gucrilleros. I should be much aston- 
ished if my young monk did not play his part in the war of indepen- 
dence. 

The anecdote which I am about to relate will amply prove that reli- 
gion was, with the Carthusian monks of the Desierto de las Valmas^ not 
the consequence of elevated sentiments, but a mere compound of super- 
stitious practices. 

The scene with the gun, always i^resent to my mind, seemed to make it 
clear to me that the Aragon monk, if actuated by his i)assions, Avould 
be capable of the most criminal actions. Hence, 1 had a very disagree- 
able impression when one Sunday, having come down to hear mass, I 
met this monk, who, without saying a word, conducted me by a series 
of dark corridors into a chapel where the daylight penetrated only by a 
very small window. There I found Father Trivulce, who prepared him- 
self to say mass for me alone. The young monk assisted. All at once, 
an instant before the consecration. Father Trivulce, turning toward me, 
said these exact words : " We have permission to say mass with white 
wine ; we therefore make use of that which we gather from our own 
vines; this wine is very good. Ask the prior to let you taste it, when 
on leaving this you go to breakfast with him. For the rest, you can as- 
sure yourself this instant of the truth of what I say to you." And he 
presented me the goblet to drink from. I resisted strongly, not only 
because I considered it indecent to give this invitation in the middle 
of the mass, but because, besides, I must own I conceived the thought 
for a moment that the monks wished, by poisoning me, to reveng 
themselves on me for M. Biot having insulted them. I found that I was 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 1G3 

mistalven, tliat my suspicions bad no foundatioc ; for Father Trivulce 
weut on with the interrupted mass, drank, and drank hirgely, of the 
white wine contained in one of tlie goblets. But when I had got out of 
the hands of the two monks, and was able to breathe the pure air of the 
country, I experienced a lively satisfaction. 

The right of asylum accorded to some churches was one of the most 
obnoxious privileges among those of which the revolution of 1798 rid 
France. In 1807, this right still existed in Spain, and belonged, I be- 
lieve, to all the cathedrals. I learned, during my stay at Barcelona, that 
there was, in a little cloister contiguous to the largest church of the 
town, a brigand — a man guilty of several assassinations, who lived 
quietly there, guaranteed against all pursuit by the sanctity of the place. 
I wished to assure myself with ray own eyes of the reality of the fact, 
and I went with my friend Eodriguez into the little cloister in question. 
The assassin was then eating a meal which a woman had just brought 
him. He easily guessed the object of our visit, and made immediately 
such demonstrations as convinced us that, if the asylum was safe for 
the robber, it would not be so long for us. We retired at once, deplor- 
ing that in a country calling itself civilized there should still exist such 
crying, such monstrous abuses. 

In order to succeed in our geodesic operations, to obtain the coopera- 
tion of the inhabitants of the villages near our stations, it was desirable 
for us to be recommended to the priests. We went, therefore — M. 
Lanusse, the French vice-consul, M. Biot, and I — to pay a visit to the 
Archbishop of Valencia, to solicit his i)rotection. This archbishop, a 
man of very tall figure, was then chief of the Franciscans ; his costume, 
more than negligent, his grey robe, covered with tobacco, contrasted 
with the magnificence of the archiepiscopal palace. He received us 
with kindness, and promised us all the recommendations we desired ; 
but, at the moment of taking leave of him, the whole affair seemed to 
be spoiled. M. Lanusse and M. Biot went out of the reception-room 
without kissing the hand of his grace, although he had presented it to 
each of them very graciously. The archbishop indemnified himself on 
my poor i)erson. A movement, which was very near breaking my teeth, 
a gesture which I might justly call a blow of the fist, proved to me that 
the chief of the Franciscans, notwithstanding his vow of humility, had 
taken offense at the want of ceremony in my fellow-visitors. I was go- 
ing to complain of the abrupt way in which he had treated me, but I 
had the necessities of our trigonometrical operations before my eyes, 
and I was silent. 

Besides this, at the instant when the closed fist of the archbishop was 
applied to my lips, I was still thinking of the beautiful optical experi- 
ments which it w^ould have been possible to make with the magnificent 
stone which ornamented his pastoral ring. This idea, I must frankly 
declare, had preoccupied me during the whole of the visit. 

M. Biot having at last come to seek me again at Valencia, where I ex- 



164 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FEANCIS ARAGO. 

pected, as I have before said, some new instruiDents, we went on to 
Formeutera, tlie soutliern extremity of our arc, of which place we deter- 
mined the latitude. M. Biot quitted me afterward to return to Paris, 
while I made the geodesical junction of the island of Majorca to Iviza, 
and to Formentera, obtaining thus, by means of one single triangle, the 
measure of an arc of parallel of one degree and a half. 

I then went to Majorca, to measure there the latitude and the azimuth. 
At this epoch, the i>olitical fermentation, engendered by the entrance of 
the French into Spain, began to invade the whole Peninsula and the 
islands dependent on it. This ferment had as yet in Majorca only 
reached to the ministers, the partisans, and the relations of the Prince 
of Peace. Each evening I saw, drawn in triumph in the square of 
Palma, the capital of the island of Majorca, on carriages, the effigies in 
flames, sometimes of the minister SoUer, another time those of the 
bishop, and even those of private individuals supposed to be attached to 
the fortunes of the favorite Godoi. I was far from suspecting then that 
my turn would soon arrive. 

My station at Majorca, the Clop <le Galazo^ a very high mountain, 
was situated exactly over the port where Don Jayme el Conquistator dis- 
embarked when he went to deliver the Balearic Islands from the Moors. 
The report spread itself through the population that I had established 
myself there in order to favor the arrival of the French army, and that 
every evening I made signals to it. But these reports had nothing 
menacing until the moment of the arrival at Palma, the 27th of May, 
1808, of an ordnance officer from jSTapoleon. This officer was M. Ber- 
themie ; he carried to the Spanish squadron, at Mahon, the order to go 
in all haste to Toulon. A general rising, which i)laced the life of this 
officer in danger, followed the news of his mission. The Captain Gen- 
eral Vives only saved his life by shutting him up in the strong castle 
of Belver. They then bethought themselves of the Frenchman estab- 
lished on the Clop de Galaso, and formed a popular expedition to go and 
seize him. 

M. Damian, the owner of a small kind of vessel called a mistic, which 
the Spanish government had placed at my disposal, Avas beforehand 
with them, and brought me a costume by means of which I disguised 
myself. In directing myself towaid Palma, in comj^any with this 
l)rave seannin, we met with the rioters, who were going in search of me. 
Tliey did not recognize me, for I spoke Majorcan i)erfectly. 1 strongly 
encouraged the men of this detachment to continue their route, and I 
pursued my way toward Palma. At night 1 went on board the mistic, 
commanded by Don Manuel de Yacaro, whom the Spanish government 
had placed under my orders. I asked this officer if he would conduct 
me to Barcelona, occupied by the French, promising him that, if they 
made any attempt to keep him there, I would at once return and sur- 
render myself a prisoner. 

Don Manuel, who up to this time had shown extreme obsequiousness 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 1G5 

toward me, had now no words but those of rudeness and distrust. 
There occurred on the pier where the mistic was moored a riotous 
movement, which Vacaro assured nie was directed against me. "Do 
not be uneasy," said he to me; "if they shoukl penetrate into the ves- 
sel, you can hide yourself in this trunk." I made the attempt, but the 
chest which he showed me was so small that my legs were entirely out- 
side, and the cover could not be shut down. I understood perfectl.y 
what that meant, and I asked M. Vacaro to let me also be shut up in 
the castle of Belver. The order for incarceration having arrived from 
the captain general, I got into the boat, where the sailors of the mistic 
received me with emotion. 

At the moment of their crossing the harbor, the poi^ulace perceiv^ed 
me, commenced a pursuit, and it was not without much ditnculty that 
I reached Belver safe and sound. I had only, indeed, received on mj^ 
way one slight wound from a dagger in the thigh. Prisoners have 
often been seen to run with all speed /ro/« their dungeon; I am the 
first, perhaps, to whom it has happened to do the reverse. This took 
place on the 1st or 2d of June, ISOS. 

The gov^ernor of Belver was a very extraordinary personage; if he is 
still alive, he may demand of me a certificate as to his i)riority to the 
modern hydropathists. The grenadier captain maintained that pure 
water, suitably administered, was a means of treatment for all illnesses, 
even for amj)utations; by listening very patiently to his theories, and 
never interrupting him, I won his good opinion. It was at his request, 
and from interest in our safety, that a Swiss garrison replaced the 
Spanish troop which, until then, had been employed as the guard of 
Belver. It was also through him that I one day learned that a monk 
had proposed to the soldiers who went to bring my food from the town, 
to jiut some poison into one of the dishes. 

All my old Mnjorcan friends had abandoned me at the moment of ray 
detention. I had had a very sharp correspondence with Don Manuel 
de Vacaro, in order to obtain the restitution of the passport of safety 
which the English admiralty had granted tons. M. Kodriguez alone 
ventured to visit me in full daylight, and bring me every consolation 
in his power. 

The excellent M. Eodriguez, to while away the monotony of my 
incarceration, remitted to me, from time to time, the journals which 
were then published at different parts of the Peninsula. He often sent 
them to me without reading them. Once I saw in these journals the 
recital of the horrible massacres of which the town of Valencia — I make 
a mistake, the square of the hull-fights — had been the theater, and in 
which nearly the whole of the French established in this town (mor<j 
than three hundred and fifty) had disappeared under the pike of the 
bull-fighter. Another journal contained an article bearing this title, 
"Eelacion de la ahorcadura del Seiior Arago e del Seuor Berthemie" — 
literally, "Account of the Execution of M. Arago and M. Berthemie." 



166 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

This account spoke of the two executed men in very different terms. 
M. Bertheraie was a Huguenot; lie had been deaf to all exhortations; 
he had spit in the face of the ecclesiastic who was present, and even on 
the image of Christ. As for me, I had conducted myself with much 
decency, and had allowed myself to be hung without giving rise to any 
scandal. The writer also expressed his regret that a young astronomer 
had been so weak as to associate himself with treason, coming under 
the disguise of science to assist the entrance of the French army into 
a friendly kingdom. 

After reading this article, 1 immediately made my decision. "Since 
they talk of my death," said I to my friend Rodriguez, " the event will 
not be long in coming; I should i)refer being drowned to being hung. 
I will make my escape from this fortress; it is for yoa to furnish me 
with the means." 

Eodriguez, knowing better than any one how well founded my appre- 
hensions were, set himself at once to the work. He went to the captain 
general, and made him feel what would be the danger of his position if 
I shonld disappear in a i)opular riot, or even if he were forced to give 
me up. His observations were so much the better comprehended, as 
no one could then predict what might be the issue of the Spanish revo- 
lution. "I will undertake," said the captain general Vives to my col- 
league Eodriguez, "to give an order to the commander of the fortress, 
that when the right moment arrives, he shall allow M. Arago, and even 
the two or three other Frenchmen who are with him in the castle of 
Belver, to pass out; they will then have no need of the means of escape 
which they have procured. But 1 will take no part in the preparations 
which will become necessary to enable the fugitives to leave the island; 
I leave all that to your responsibility." 

Rodriguez immediately conferred secretly with the brave commander 
Damian. It was agreed between them that Damian should take the 
command of a half-decked boat which the wind had driven ashore; that 
he should equip it as if for a fishing expedition; that he should carry 
us to Algiers, after which his reiintrance at Palmas, with or without 
fish, would inspire no suspicion. All was executed according to agree- 
ment, notwithstanding the inquisitorial surveillance which Don Manuel 
de Vacaro exercised over the commander of his "mistic." 

On the 28th July, 1808, we silently descended the hill on which Bel- 
ver is built, at the same moment that the family of the minister Soller 
entered the fortress to escape the fury of the populace. Arrived at the 
shore, we found there Damian, his boat, and three sailors; we embarked 
at once, and set sail. Damian had taken the precaution of bringing 
with us in this frail vessel the instruments of value which he had car- 
ried off from my station at the Cloj) de Galazo. The sea was unfavor- 
able; Damian thought it prudent to stop at the little island of Cabrera, 
destined to become, a short time afterward, so sadly celebrated by the 
sufferings which the soldiers of the army of Dupout experienced after 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 1G7 

the sliamefal capitulation of Baylen. There a singular incident 'svas very 
near compromisiug all: Cabrera, tolerably near to the southern extrem- 
ity of Majorca, is often visited by fishermen coming from that part of 
the island. M. Berthemie feared, justly enough, that, the rumor of our 
escape having spread about, they might dispatch some boats to seize 
us. He looked upon our going into harbor as inopportune; I main- 
tained that we must yield to the prudence of the commander. During 
this discussion, the three seamen whom Damiau had engaged saw thai 
]\I. Berthemie, whom I liad endeavored to pass off as my servant, main- 
tained his opinion against me on a footing of equality. They then 
addressed themselves in these terms to the commander: 

^' We only consented to take i^art in this expedition upon condition 
that the Emperor's aid-de-camp, shut up at Belver, should not be of the 
number of those persons whom we should help off; we only wished to 
aid the flight of the astronomer. Since it seems to be otherwise, you 
must leave this officer here, unless you would prefer to throw him into 
the sea." 

Damian at once informed me of the imperative wishes of his boat's 
crew, M. Berthemie agreed with me to suffer some abuse, such as 
could only be tolerated by a servant threatened by his master: all the 
suspicions disappeared. 

Damian, who feared also for himself the arrival of Majorcan fisher- 
men, hastened to set sail on the 29th of July, 1808, the first moment 
that was favorable, and we arrived at Algiers on the 3d of August. 

Our looks were anxiously directed toward the port, to guess what 
reception might await us. We were reassured by the sight of the tri- 
colored Hag which was flying on two or three buildings; but we were 
mistaken, these buildings were Dutch. Immediately upon our entrance, 
a Spaniard, whom, from his tone of authority, we took for a high func- 
tionary of the regency, came up to Damian, and asked him, "What do 
you bring? " "I bring," answered the commander, "four Frenchmen.'' 
"You will at once take them back again; I prohibit you from disem- 
barking." As we did not seem inclined to obey his order, our Span- 
iard, who was the constructing engineer of the ships of the Dey, armed 
himself with a pole, and commenced battering ns ^^ith blows; but 
immediately a Genoese seaman, mounted on a neighboring vessel, 
armed himself with an oar, and struck our assailant both with edge 
and point. During this animated combat, we managed to land without 
any opposition. We had conceived a singular idea of the manner in 
which the police act on the coast of Africa. 

We liursued our way to the French consul's, M. Dubois Thainville ; 
he was at his country house. Escorted by the janissary of the consul- 
ate, we went off toward this country house, one of the ancient residences 
of the Dey, situated not far from the gate of Bab-azoum. The consul 
and his family received us with great amity, and offered us hospitality. 

Suddenlj^ transported to a new continent, I looked forward anxiously 



1G8 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

to the rising of the sun to enjoy all that Africa might offei: of interest 
to a European, when all at once I believed myself to he engaged in a 
serious adventure. By the faint light of the dawn, I saw an animal 
moving at the foot of my bed. I gave a kick with my foot ; all move- 
ment ceased. After some time, 1 felt the same movement under my 
legs. A sharp jerk made this cease quickly. I then heard the fits of 
laughter of the janissary, wiio lay on a couch in the same room as I did; 
and I soon saw that he had simply placed on my bed a large hedgehog 
to amuse himself by my uneasiness. 

The consul occupied himself the next day in procuring a passage for 
us on board a vessel of the liegency which was going to Marseilles. M. 
Terrier, the chancellor of the French consulate, was at the same time 
consul for Austria. He procured for us two false passports, which 
transformed us — ]M. Berthemie and me — into two strolling merchants, 
the one from Schwekat, in Hungary, the other from Leoben. 

The moment of departure had arrived ; the 13th of August, 1808, we 
were on board, but our shi[)'s company was not complete. The captain, 
whose title was llaiBraham Ouled Mustapha Goja, having perceived that 
the Dey was on his terrace, and fearing i)unishment if he should delay 
to set sail, completed his crew at the expense of the idlers who were 
looking on from the pier, and of whom the greater i)art were not sailors. 
These poor people begged as a favor for liermission to go and inform 
their families of this precipitate departure, and to -get some clothes. 
The captain remained deaf to their remonstrances. We weighed anchor. 

The vessel belonged to the Emir of Seca, director of the mint. The 
real commander was a Greek captain, named Spiro Calligero. The cargo 
consisted of a great number of grovps. Among the passengers there 
were five members of the family which the Bakri had succeeded as 
kings of the Jews ; two ostrich-feather merchants, Moroccans ; Captain 
Krog, from Berghen in i^orway, who had sold his ship at Alicant; two 
lions sent by the r>ey to the Emperor Napoleon, and a great number of 
monkeys. Our voyage was prosperous. Off Sardinia we met with an 
American ship coming out from Cagliari. A cannon-shot (we were 
armed with forty pieces of small power] warned the cai)tain to come to 
be recognized. He brought on board a certain number of counterparts 
of passports, one of which agreed perfectly with that which we carried. 
The captain being thus all right, was not a little astonished when I 
ordered him, in the name of Captain Braham, to furnish us with tea, 
coffee, and sugar. The American captain protested ; he called us brig- 
ands, pirates, robbers. Captain Braham admitted without difficulty all 
these qualifications, and persisted none the less in the exaction of sugar, 
coffee, and tea. 

The American, then driven to the last stage of exasperation, addres- 
sed himself to me, who acted as interpreter, and cried out, " Oh ! rogue 
of a renegade ! if ever I meet you on holy ground I will break your head.'' 
"Can you then suppose," I answered him, "that I am here for my 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 169 

pleasure, and that, notliwitbstaiidiiig your menace, I would not rather 
go with you, if I could P These words calmed him ; he brought the 
sugar, the coffee, and the tea claimed by the Moorish chief and we again 
set sail, though without having exchanged the usual farewell. 

We had already entered the (lulf of Lyons, and were approaching 
IVIarseilles, when on tbe 16th August, 1808, we met with a Spanish cor- 
sair from. Palamos, armed at tlie prow with two24-pounders. We made 
full sail; we hoped to escape it: but a cannon shot, a ball from wliich 
went through our sails, taught us that she was a much better sailer than 
we were. 

We obeyed an injunction thus espressed, and awaited the great boat 
from the corsair. The captain declared that he made us prisoners, 
although Spain was at peace with Earbary, under the pretext that we 
were violating the blockade which had been lately raised on all the coasts 
of France ; he added that he intended to take us to Eosas, and that 
there the authorities would decide on our fate. 

I was in the cabin of the vessel ; I had the curiosity to look furtively 
at^the crew of the boat, and there I perceived, with a dissatisfaction 
Avhich may easily be imagined, one of the sailors of the "mistic," com- 
manded by Don Manuel de Yacaro, of the name of Pablo Elanco, of Pala- 
mos, who had olten acted as my servant during mj^ geodesec operations. 
My false passport would beccm.e frcm this moment useless, if Pablo 
should recognize me. I went to bed at once, covered my head with a 
counterpane,anci lay as still as a statue. 

During the two days which elapsed between our capture and our 
entrance into the roads of Eosas, Pablo, whose curiosity often brought 
him into the room, used to exclaim, "There is one passenger whom I 
have not yet managed to get a sight of." 

When we arrived at Eosas it was decided that we should be placed 
in quarantine in a dismantled windmill, situated on the road leading to 
Pigueras. I was careful to disembark in a boat to which Pablo did not 
belong. The corsair departed for a new cruise, and I was for a moment 
freed from the harassing thoughts which my old servant had caused me. 

Our ship was richly laden ; the Spanish authorities were immediately 
desirous to declare it a lawful prize. They pretended to believe that I 
was the proprietor of it, and wished, in order to hasten things, to inter- 
rogate me, even without awaiting the completion of the quarantine. 
They stretched two cords between the mill and the shore; and a judge 
placed himself in front of me. As the interrogatories were made from 
a good distance, the numerous audience which encircled us took a direct 
l)art in the questions and answers. I will endeavor to reproduce this 
dialogue with all possible fidelity : 

"Who are you?" 

"A poor roving merchant." 

" Whence do you come f 

"Prom a country vvherc you certainly never were." 



170 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRAXCIS ARAGO. 

'' In a word, what country is it ?" 

I was afraid to answer, for tlie passports, steeped in viueg'ar, were in 
the hands of the judge-instructor, and I had forgotten whether I was 
from Schwekat or from Leoben. Finally I answered at all hazards: 

" I come from Schwekat.'" 

And this information happily was found to agree with that o-f the 
passport. 

"You are as much from Schwekat as I am," answered the judge. 
" You are Spanish, and, moreover, a Spaniard from the kingdom of 
Valencia, as I perceive by your accent."' 

" Would you i)unish me, sir, because nature has endowed me with 
the gift of languages? I learn with facility the dialects of those coun- 
tries through which I ])ass in the exercise of my trade ; I have learned, 
for example, the dialect of Iviza." 

" Very well, you shall be taken at your word. 1 see here a soldier 
from Iviza ; you shall hold a conversation with him." 

" I consent ; I will even sing the goat song." 

Each of the verses of this song (if verses they be) terminates by, an 
imitation of the bleating of the goat. 

I commenced at once, with an audacity at which I really feel aston- 
ished, to chant this air, which is sung by all the shepherds of the island: 

Ah graciatla senora 
Uua cauzo bouil canta 
Be, be, be, be. 
No sera gaira pulida 
Nose si vos agiadara 
Bh, hh, be, hh. 

At once my Ivizacan, upon whom this air had the effect of the ra??r 
cles vachcs on the Swiss, declared, all in tears, that I was a native of 
Iviza. 

I then said to the judge that if he would put me in communication 
with a person knowing the French language, he would arrive at just as 
embarrassing a result. An emigre oflicer of the Bourbon regiment offered 
at dnce to make the experiment, and, after some phrases interchanged 
between us, aflirmed without hesitation that I was French. 

The judge, rendered impatient, exclaimed, "Let us put an end to 
these trials which decide nothing. I summon you, sir, to tell me who 
you are. I i)romise that your life will be safe if you answer me with 
sincerity." 

" My greatest wish would be to give an answer to your satisfaction. 
I will, then, try to do so; but I warn you that I am not going to tell 
you the truth. I am the son of the innkeeper at Mataro." "I know 
that innkeeper; you are not his son." "You are right. I announced 
to you that I should vary my answers until one of them should suit you. 
I retract then, and tell you that lam a titiretero (player of marionettes) 
and that I practiced at Lerida." 



AUTORIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 171 

A loud slioiit of laughter from tlie multitude encircling us greeted 
tliis answer, and put an end to tlie questions. 

" I swear by the d 1," exclaimed the judge, " that I will discover 

sooner or later who you are!" 

And he retired. 

The Arabs, the Moroccans, the Jews, who witnessed this interrogatory^ 
understood nothing of it; they had only seen that I had not allowed 
myself to be intimidated. At the close of the interview they came to 
kiss my hand, and gave me, from this moment, their entire confidence. 

I became their secretarj'^ for all the individual or collective remon- 
strances which they thought they had a right to address to the Spanish 
government; and this right was incontestable. Every day I was occu- 
l)ied in drawing up petitions, especially in the name of the two ostrich- 
feather merchants, one of whom called himself a tolerably near relation 
of the Emperor of Morocco. Astonished at the rapidity with which I 
filled a page of my writing, they imagmed, doubtless, that I should write 
as fast in Arabic characters, when it should be requisite to transcribe 
passages from the Koran ; and that this would form both for me and 
for them the source of a brilliant fortune, and they besought me, in the 
most earnest way, to become a Mahomedan. 

Very little reassured by the last words of the judge, I sought means 
of safety from another quarter. 

I Avas the possessor of a safe-conduct from the English admiralty; I 
therefore wrote a confidential letter to the captain of an English vessel, the 
" Eagle," I think, which had cast anchor some days before in the roads 
at Eosas. I explained to hini ray position. " You can," I said, " claim 
me, because I have an English passport. If this proceeding should cost 
you too much, have the goodness at least to take my manuscripts and 
to send them to the Eoyal Society in London." 

One of the soldiers who guarded us, and in whom I had fortunately 
inspired some interest, undertook to deliver my letter. The English 
captain came to see me; his name was, if my memory is right, George 
Eyre. We had a private conversation on the shore. George Eyre 
thought i^erhaps that the manuscripts of my observations were con- 
tained in a register bound in morocco, and with gilt edges to the leaves. 
When he saw that these manuscripts were composed of single leaves 
covered with figures, which I had hidden under my shiit, disdain suc- 
ceeded to interest, and he quitted me hastily. Having returned on 
board he wrote me a letter which I could find if needful, in which he 
said to me, " I cannot mix myself up in your affairs ; address yourself 
to the Spanish government; I am persuaded that it will do justice to 
your remonstrance and will not molest you." As I had not the same 
persuasion as Captain George Eyre, I chose to take no notice of his 
advice. 

I ought to mention that some time after having related these partic- 
ulars in England at Sir Joseph Jianks's, the conduct of George Eyre was 



172 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

severely blamed ; but wlicii a man breakfivsts and dines to tlie sound of 
liarmouious music, can be accord bis interest to a poor devil sleeping 
on straw and nibbled by vermin, even tbougli be bave manuscripts under 
liissbirt? I may add tbat I (unfortunately for me) bad to do witb a 
captain of an unusual cbaracter. For, some days later, a new vessel, tbe 
Colossus, baving arrived in tbe roads, tbe Norwegian, Captain Krog, 
altbougb be bad not, like me, an admiralty passport, made an applica- 
tion to tbe commander of tbis newsbip; be was immediately claimed 
and relieved from captivity. 

Tbe re[)ort tbat I was a Spanisb deserter and proprietor of tbe vessel, 
acquiring more and more credit, and tbis position being tbe most dan- 
gerous of all, I resolved to get out of it. I begged tbe comnuiudant of 
tbe place, M. Alloy, to come to receive my declaration, and I announced 
to bim tbat I was Frencb. To prove to bim tbe trutb of my words I 
invited bim to send for Pablo Blanco, tbe sailor in tbe service of tbe 
corsair wbo took us, and wbo bad returned from bis cruise a sbort time 
before. Tbis was done as I wisbed. In disembarking, Pablo Blanco, 
wbo bad not been warned, exclaimed witb surprise, " What! you Don 
Francisco, mixed up witb all tbese miscreants ! " Tbe sailor gave tbe 
governor circumstantial evidence as to tbe mission wbicb Ifidlilled witb 
two Spanisb commissaries. My nationality tbus became proved. 

Tbat same day Alloy was replaced in tbe command of tbe fortress by 
tbe Irisb colonel of tbe Ultonian regiment; tbe corsair left for a fresb 
cruise, taking nsvuj Pablo Blanco ; and I became once more tbe roving 
mercbant from Scbwekat. 

From tbe windmill wbere we underwent our quarantine, I could see 
tbe tricolored flag flying on tbe fortress of Figueras. Tbe reconnoitering 
parties of tbe cavalry came sometimes witbin five or six bundred meters; 
it would not tbcn bave been difbcult for me to escape. However, as tbe 
regulations against tbose wbo violate tbe sanitary laws are very rigor- 
ous in Spain, as tbey pronounce tbe penalty of deatb against bim wbo 
infringes tbem, I only determined to make my escape on tbe eve of our 
admission to pratique. 

Tbe nigbt being come I crept on all-fours along tbe briars, and I sbouUl 
soon bave got beyond tbe line of sentinels wbo guarded us. A noisy 
uproar wbicb 1 beard among tbe Moors made me determine to reenter, 
and I found tbese poor people in an unspeakable state of uiieasiness, 
tbinking tbemselves lost if I left ; I tberefore remained. 

Tbe next day a strong picket of troops presented itself before tbe 
mill. The maneuvers made by it inspired all of us witb anxiety, bur 
especially Captain Krog.* " Wbat will tbey do witb us?" be exclaimed. 
"Alas! you will see only too soon," replied tbe Spanisb officer. Tins 
answer made every one believe tbat tbey were going to sboot us. AVbat 
migbt bave strengtbened me in tbis idea was tbe obstinacy witb wbicb 

*Tliis appears to be an overeighfc, as iu a preceding page M. Arago described the for- 
tunate release of Captain Krog from this cai)tivity. 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 173 

Captain Krog aDfl two other individuals of small size bid tliemselvos 
behind me. A handling of arms made us think that we had but a few 
seconds to live. 

In analyzing the feelings which T experienced on this solemn occasion, 
I have come to the conclusion that the man who is led to death is not as 
unlmppy as the iiublic imagines him to be. Fifty ideas presented them- 
selves nearly simultaneously to my mind, and I did not rack my brain 
for any of them ; I only recollect the two following which have remained 
engraved on my memory. On turning my head to the right, I saw the 
national flag flying on the bastions of Figueras, and I said to myself, 
' If I were to move a few hundred meters I should be surrounded by 
comrades, by friends, by fellow-citizens, who would receive me affection- 
ately. Here, without their being able to impute any crime to me, I am 
going to suffer death at twenty-two years of age." But Avhat agitated 
me more deeply was this : looking toward the Pyrenees I could distinctly 
see their peaks, and I reflected that my mother, on the other side of the 
chain, might at this awfnl moment be looking peaceably at them. 

The Spanish authorities, finding that to redeem my life I would not 
declare myself the owner of the vessel, had us conducted without further 
molestation to the fortress of Rosas. Having to file through nearly all 
the inhabitants of the town, I had wished at first, through a false feeling 
of shame, to leave in the mill the remains of our week's meals. But M. 
Berthemie, more prudent than I, carried over his shoulder a great quan- 
tity of pieces of black bread tied up with j)ackthread. I imitated him. 
I furnished myself famously from our old stock, set it on my shoulder, 
and it was with this accoutrement that I made my entrance into the 
famous fortress. 

They placed us in a casemate, where we had barely the space neces- 
sary for lying down. In the windmill they used to bring us, from time 
to time, some provisions which came from our boat. Here, the Spanish 
government purveyed our food. We received every day some bread and 
a ration of rice ; but as we had no means of dressing food, we were in 
reality reduced to dry bread. 

Dry bread was very unsubstantial food for one who could see from 
his casemate, at the door of his prison, a sutler selling grapes at two 
farthings a pound, and cooking, under the shelter of half a cask, bacon 
and herrings ; but we had no money to bring us into connection with this 
merchant. I then decided, though with very great" regret, to sell a 
watch which my father had given me. I was only offered about a quarter 
of its value ; but I might well accept it since there were no competitors 
for it. 

As possessors of sixty francs, M. Berthemie and I could now appease 
the hunger from which we had long suffered ; but we did not like this 
return of fortune to be profitable to ourselves alone, and we made some 
presents, which were very well received by our companions in captivity. 



174 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS AKAGO. 

Thougli tliis sale of my watcli broaglit some comfort to us, it was doomed 
at a later period to iiluiige a family into sorrow. 

The town of Eosas fell into the power of the French after a courage- 
ous resistance. The prisoners of the garrison were sent to France, and 
naturally passed through Perpignau. My father went in quest of news 
wherever Spaniards were to be found. He entered a cafe at the moment 
when a prisoner officer drew from his fob the watch which I had sold 
at Rosas. My good father saw in this act the proof of my death, and 
fell into a swoon. The officer had got the watch from a third party, 
and could give no account of the fate of the ijerson to whom it had ori- 
ginally belonged. 

The casemate having become necessary to the defenders of the fortress, 
we were taken to a little chapel where they deposited for twenty'- four 
hours those who had died in the hospital. There we were guarded by 
peasants who had come across the mountain from various villages, and 
particularly from Cadaques. These peasants, eager to recount all that 
they had seen of interest during their one day's campaign, questioned 
me as to the deeds and behavior of all m}' companions in misfortune. 
I satisfied their curiosity amply, being the only one of the set who could 
speak Spanish. 

To enlist their good will, I also questioned them at length upon the 
subject of their village, on the work that they did there, on smuggling, 
their principal sources of employment, &c., &c. They answered my 
questions with the loquacity common to country rustics. The next day 
our guards were replaced by some others who were inhabitants of the 
same village. "In my business of a roving merchant," I said to these 
last, " I have been at Cadaques;" and then I began to talk to them of 
what I had learnt the night before of such an individual, who gave him- 
self up to snuiggliug with more success than others, of his beautiful 
residence, of the property which he possessed near the village ; in short, 
of a number of particulars which it seemed impossible for any but an 
inhabitant of Cadaques to know. My jest produced an unexpected 
effect. Such circumstantial details, our guards said to themselves, can- 
not be known by a roving merchant; this i)ersonage whom we have 
found here in such singular society, is certainly a native of Cadaques; 
and the son of the apothecary must be about his age. He had gone to 
try his fortune in America ; it is evidently he, who fears to make himself 
known, having been found with all his riches in a vessel on its way to 
France. The report spread, became more consistent, and reached the 
ears of a sister of the apothecary established at Rosas. She runs to 
me, believes she recognizes me, and falls on my neck. I protest against 
the identity. "Well i)layed!" said she to me; " the case is serious, as 
you have been found in a vessel coming to France ; persist in your 
denial; circumstances may perhaps take a more favorable turn, and I 
shall profit by them to insure your deliverance. In the mean time, my 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FEANCIS ARAGO. 175 

dear nepliew, I will let you want for notbing.'' And truly every morn- 
ing M. Bertliemie and I received a comfortable repast. 

The church having become necessary to the garrison to serve as a 
magazine, we were moved on the 25th of September, 1808, to a Trinit}' 
fort, called the Bouton de Rosas, a citadel situated on a little mountain 
at the entrance of the roads, and we were deposited deep under ground, 
where the light of da}' did not penetrate on any side. We did not long 
remain in this infected place; not because they had pity upon us, but 
because it offered shelter for a part of the garrison atta's.'ked by the 
French. They made us descend by night to the edge of the sea, and 
then transported us on the 17th of October to the port of Palamos. 
We were shut up in a hulk; we enjoyed, however, a certain degree of 
liberty; they allowed us to go on land and to parade our miseries and 
our rags in the town. It Avas there thac I made the acquaintance of the 
dowager Duchess of Orleans, mother of Louis Phillippe. She had left 
the town of Figueras where she resided, because, she told me, thirty- 
two bombs sent from the fortress had fallen in her house. She was then 
intending to take refuge in Algiers, and she asked me to bring the cap- 
tain of the vessel to her, of wliom, perhaps, she would have to implore 
protection. I related to my "r«V&" the misfortunes of the princess; he 
was moved by them, and I conducted him to her. On entering he took 
oft" his slippers from respect, as if he had entered within a mosque, and 
holding them in his hand, he went to kiss the front of the dress of 
Madame d'Orleans. The princess vras alarmed at the sight of this manly 
figure, wearing the longest beard I ever saw ; she quickly recovered her- 
self, and the interview proceeded with a mixture of French politeness 
and oriental courtesy. 

The sixty francs from Rosas were expended. Madame d'Orleans 
would have liked much to assist us, but she was herself without money. 
All that she could gratify us with was a i)iece of sugar-bread. The 
evening of our visit I was richer than the princess. To avoid the fury 
of the people the Spanish government sent those French who had 
escaped the first massacres back to France in slight boats. One of the 
cartels came and cast anchor by the side of our hulk. One of the un- 
happy emigrants offered me a pinch of snuti'. On oj^ening the snuff-box 
I found there ^hma onza de oro,''^ (an ounce of gold,) the sole remains of 
his fortune. I returned the snuff'-box to him, with warm thanks, after 
having shut up in it a paper containing these words: "My fellow-coun- 
tryman who carries this note has rendered me a great service ; treat 
him as one of your children." My petition was naturally favorably 
received; it was by this bit of paper, the size-of the onza de oro, that 
my family learnt that I was still in existence, and it enabled my mother, 
a model of piety, to cease saying masses for the repose of my soul. 

Five days afterward, one of my hardy compatriots arrived at Pal- 
amos, after having traversed the line of posts, both French and Spanish, 
carrying to a merchant who had friends at Perpiguau the proposal to 



176 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

furnish me with all I was in need of. The Spaniard showed a great 
inclination to agree to tbe proposal; but I did not x>rofit by his good 
will, because of the occurrence of events which I shall relate presently. 

The observatory at Paris is very near the barrier. In my youth, 
curious to study the manners of the people, I used to walk in sight of 
the public houses, which the desire of escaping payment of tbe duty has 
multiplied outside the walls of the capital. On these excursions 1 was 
often humiliated to see men disputing for a piece of bread, just as ani- 
mals might have done. My feelings on this subject have very much 
altered since I have been personally exposed to the tortures of hunger. 
I have discovered, in fact, that a man, whatever may have been his 
origin, his education, and his habits, is governed, under certain circum- 
stances, much more by his stomach than by his intelligence and his 
heart. Here is the fact which suggested these reflections to me: 

To celebrate the unhoped-for arrival of una oiisa de oro, ISl. Berthemie 
and I had produced an immense dish of potatoes. The ordnance ofQcer 
of the Emperor was already devouring it with his eyes, Avhen a Moroccan, 
who was making his ablutions near us with one of his companions, acci- 
dentally filled it with dirt. M. Berthemie could not control his anger, 
he darted upon the clumsy Mussulman, and inflicted upon him a rough 
punishment. 

I remained a passive spectator of the combat, until the second IMoroc- 
can came to the aid of his compatriot. The party no longer being equal, 
I also took part in the conflict, by seizing the new assailant by the 
beard. The combat ceased at once, because the Moroccan would not 
raise his hand against a man who could write a petition so rapidly. 
This conflict, like the struggles of which I had often been a vtituess out- 
side the barriers of Paris, had originated in a dish of potatoes. 

The Si)auiards always cherished the idea that the ship and. her cargo 
might be confiscated ; a commission came from Girone to question us. 
It was composed of two civil judges and one inquisitor. I acted as 
interpreter. When M. Derthemie's turn came, I went to fetch him, and 
said to him, " Pretend that you can only talk Styrian, and be at ease; 
1 will not compromise you in translating your answers." 

It was done as we had agreed ; unfortunately the language spoken by M. 
Berthemie had but little variety, and the sacremcnt der Tevfcl, which he 
had learned in Germany, when he was aide-de-camp to Ilitutpoul, pre- 
dominated too much in his discourse. Be that as it may, the judges ob- 
served that there was too great a conformity between his answers and 
those which 1 had made myself to render it necessary to continue an in- 
terpogatory, which I may say, by the way, disturbed me much. The wish 
to terminate it was still more decided on the part of the judges, when 
it came to the turn of a sailor named Mehemet. Instead of making him 
swear on the Koran to tell the truth, tlie judge was determined to make 
him , place his thumb on the fore-finger so as to represent the cross. I 
warned him that great oftense would thus be given; and, accordinglj-, 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 177 

when Mehemet became aware of the ineaumg of this sign, he began to 
spit upon it with inconceivable violence. The meeting- ended at once. 

The next day things had whollj" changed their appearance ; one of 
the judges from Girone came to declare to us that we were free to depart, 
and to go with our ship wherever we chose. What was the cause of 
this sudden (jhange ? It was this : 

During our quarantine in the windmill at Eosas, I had written, in the 
name of Oaptain Braham, a letter to the Dey of Algiers. I gave him 
an account of the illegal arrest of his vessel, and of the death of one of 
the lions which the Dey had sent to the Emperor. This last circum- 
stance transported the African monarch with rage. He sent immedi- 
ately for the Spanish consul, M. Onis, claimed pecuniary damages for 
his dear lion, and threatened war if his ship was not released directly. 
Spain had then to do with too many diificulties to undertake wantonly 
any new ones, and the order to release the vessel so anxiously coveted 
arrived at Girone, and from thence at Palamos. 

This solution, to which our consul at Algiers, M. Dubois Thainville, 
had not remained inattentive, reached us at the moment when we least 
expected it. We at once made preparations for our departure, and on 
the 28th of November, 1808, we set sail, steering for Marseilles ; but, as 
the Mussulmen on board the vessel declared, it was written above that 
we should not enter that town. We could already perceive the white 
buildings which crown the neighboring hills of Marseilles, when a gust 
of the " mistral," of great violence, sent us from the north towards the 
south. 

I do not know what route we followed, for I was lying in my cabin, 
overcome with sea-sickness ; I may, therefore, though an astronomer, 
avow without shame, that at the moment when our unqualified pilots 
supposed themselves to be off the Baleares, we landed, on the 5th of 
December, at Bougie. 

There, they pretended that during the three months of winter all 
communication with Algiers, by means of the little boats named sandalis, 
would be impossible, and I resigned myself to the painful prospect of so 
long a stay in a place at that time almost a desert. One evening I was 
making these sad reflections while pacing the deck of the vessel, when 
a shot from a gun on the coast came and struck the side planks close to 
which I was passing. This suggested to me the thought of going to 
Algiers by land. 

I went next day, accompanied by M. Berth^mie and Captain Spiro 
Calligero, to the Caid of the town : " I wish," said I to him, " to go to 
Algiers by land." The man, quite frightened, exclaimed, "I cannot 
allow you to do so ; you would certainly be kiUed on the road ; your 
consul would make a complaint to the Dey, and I should have my head 
cut off." 

" Fear not on that ground. I will give you an acquittance." 

12 S 



178 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

It was iiumediately drawn up in these terms : 

" We, the undersiy^iicd, certify that the Caid of Bougie wished to dis- 
suade us Iroui going- to Algiers by land ; that he has assured us that 
we shall be massacred on the road ; that uotwithstaiuling his represent- 
ations, reiterated twenty times, we have persisted in our project. AVc 
beg the Algerine authorities, particularly our consul, not to make hi u 
responsible for this event if it should occur. We once more rei)eat that 
the voyage has been undertaken against his will. , 

"AUAGO a:sd BEIlTIir^MlE." 

Having given this declaration to the Caid, we considered ourselves 
qu:t of this functionary ; but he came up to me, undid, without saying 
a word, the knot of my cravat, took it off, and put it into his pocket. 
All this was done so quickly that 1 had not time, I will add that 1 had 
not even the wish, to reclaim it. 

At the conclusion of this audience, which had terminated in so singu- 
lar a manner, we made a bargain with a jMahomedan priest, who prom- 
ised to conduct us to Algiers for the sum of twenty ''piastres fortes" 
and a red mantle. The day was occupied in disguising ourselves, well 
or ill, and we set out the next morning, accompanied by several iMoorish 
sailors belonging to the crew of the ship, after having shown the Ma- 
homedan i)riest that we had nothing with us worth a sou, so that if wo 
were killed on the road he would inevitably lose all reward. 

I went, at the last moment, to make my bow to the oidy lion that 
.?as still alive, and with whom I had lived in A'crj* good harmony; 1 
wished also to say good-bye to the monkeys, who during nearly live 
months had been e(iually my companions in misfortune.* These mon- 
keys during our frightful misery had rendered us a service which I 
scarcely dare mention, and which will scarcely be guessed by tlio 
inhabitants of our cities, who look upon these animals as ol.»jects of 
diversion : they freed us from the vermin Miiich infested us, and showed 
particularly a remarkable cleverness in seeking out the hideous insects 
which lodged themselves in our hair. 

Poor animals! they seem to me very unfortunate in being sluit up in 
the narrow inclosui-e of the vessel, when, on the neighboring coast, other 
monkeys, as if to bully them, came on to the branches of the trees, 
giving innumerable pioofs of their agility. 

At the commencement of the day, we saw on the road two Kabyls, 
similar to the soldiers of Jugurtha, whose harsh ai)[)eara]u,'e ])owerfully 
allayed our fanc^' for wandering. In the evening we witnessed a fearlul 
tumult, which appeared to be directed against us. We learnt afterward 

* Oil uiy return to Paris I liiistcncHl to tlic .Janliu dcs Plantos to pay a visit to tlio 
lion, l)iit bo received mo witli a very unaniiable gunshiiii; of tlic tooth. Think, tiieu, of 
the marvelous history of the Florentine lion, the subject of so many engraviiii;3, 
which is offered on the stall of every print-seller to the eyes of the moved and aston- 
ished passers by. 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 179 

that the Maliomedan priest had been the object of it; that it originated 
with some Kabyls whom ho had disarmed on one of their journeys to 
Bougie. This incident, which appeared likely to be repeated, inspired 
lis for a moment with the thought of returning; but the sailors were 
resolute, and we continued our hazardous enterprise. 

In proportion as we advanced, our troops became increased by a cer- 
tain number of Kabyls, who wished to go to Algiers to work there in the 
quality of seamen, and who dared not undertake alone this dangerous 
journey. 

The third day we encamped in the open air, at the entrance of a forest. 
The Arabs lighted a very hirgc fire in the form of a circle, and placed 
themselves in the middle. Toward eleven o'clock I was awakened by 
the noise which the mules made, all trying to break their fastenings. I 
asked what was the cause of this disturbance. The}' answered me that 
a"sc^<(a"had come roaming in the neighborhoo<l. 1 was not awnre 
then that a '■'• scba<V^ was a lion, and I went to sleep again. The next 
day, in traversing the forest, the arrangement of tho caravan was 
changed. It was grouped in the snmllest space possible; one Ivabyl 
was at the head, his gun ready for service; another was in the rear, in 
the same position. I inquired of the owner of the mule the cause of 
these unusual precautions. He answered me that they were dreading 
an attack from a " sebad,^'' and that if this should occur, one of us would 
be carried off without having time to put himself on the defensive. " I 
would rather be a spectator," I said to him, " than an actor in the scene 
you describe; consef|^uently, I will give you two piastres more if you 
will keep your mule always in the center of the moving group." ]\ry 
proposal was accepted. It was then for the first time that I saw that 
u)y Arab carried a yatagan under his tunic, which he used for iiricking 
on the nuile the whole time that we were in the thicket. Supertluous 
cautions! The "sc^aa" did not show himself. 

Each village being a little re[)ublic, whose territory wo could not 
cross without obtaining permission and a passport from the -Maliomedan 
\)xi(iiit president^ the priest who conducted our caravan used to leave us 
in the fields, and went sometimes a good way otf to a village to solicit 
the permission, without which it would have been dangerous to continue 
our route, lie remained entire hours without returning to us, and wo 
then had occasion to retlect sadly on the imprudence of our enterprise. 
We generally slept among habitations. Once we found the streets 
of a village barricaded, because they were fearing an attack from a 
neighboring village. The foremost man of our caravan removed the 
obstacles ; but a woman came out of her house like a fury, and belabored 
us with blows from a pole. AVe remarked that she was fair, of brilliant 
whiteness, aiul very pretty. 

Another time we lay down in a lurking-place dignified by the beauti- 
tiful name of Caravanseray. In the morning, when the sun rose, cries of 
^'■Boumi ! Eouml .'" warned us that we had been discovered. The sailor, 



180 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

Mehemet, he who figured in the scene of the oath at Palamos, entered 
in a melancholy mood the inclosure where we were together, and made 
US understand that the cries of " Roumi !" vociferated under these cir- 
cumstances, were equivalent to a sentence of death. " Wait," said he; 
" a means of saving you has occurred to me." Mehemet entered some 
moments afterward, told us that his means had succeeded, and invited 
me to join the Kabyls, who were going to say prayers. 

1 accordingly went out and prostrated myself toward the east. I imi- 
tated minutely the gestures which I saw made around me, pronouncing 
the sacred words, La elah il Allah ! oua Maliommed ragout Allah ! It was 
the scene of Mamamouchi of the " Bourgeois Gentilhomme," which I 
had so often seen acted by Dugazon, with this one difference, that this 
time it did not make me laugh. I was, however, ignorant of the conse- 
q lences it might have brought upon me on my arrival at Algiers. After 
having made the profession of faith before Mahomedans, There is hut one 
Go;l, and Mahomet is Jiis prophet, if I had been informed against to the 
muiti, I must inevitably have become Mussulman, and they would not 
hav. allowed me to go out of the regency. 

I must not forget to relate by what means Mehemet had saved us 
from inevitable death. " You have guessed rightly," said he to the 
Kabyls, "there are two Christians in the caravansary, but they are 
Mahomedans at heart, and are going to Algiers to be adopted by the 
mufti into our holy religion. You will not doubt this when I tell you 
that I was myself a slave to some Christians, and that they redeemed 
me with their money." " In cha Allah !" they exclaimed with one voice. 
And it was then that the scene took place which I have just described. 

We arrived in sight of Algiers the 25th December, 1808. We took 
leave of the Arab owners of our mules, who walked on foot by the side 
of us, and we spurred them on in order to reach the town before the 
closing of the gates. On our arrival we learnt that the Dey, to whom 
we owed our first deliverance, had been beheaded. The guard of the 
palace before which we passed stopped us and questioned us as to 
whence we came. We replied that we came from Bougie by land. " It 
is not possible," exclaimed all the janissaries at once, " the Dey him- 
self would not venture to undertake such a journey." " We acknowl- 
edge that we have committed a great imprudence, that we would not 
undertake to recommence the journey for millions; but the fact that we 
have just declared is the strict truth." 

Arrived at the consular house we were, as on the first occasion, very 
cordially welcomed. We received a visit from a dragoman sent by the 
Dey, who asked whether we persisted in maintaining that Bougie had 
been our point of departure, and not Cape Matifou, or some neighboring 
part. We again affirmed the truth of our recital ; it was confirmed the 
next day on the arrival of the proprietors of our mules. 

At Palamos, during the various interviews which I had with the dow- 
ager Duchess of Orleans, one circumstance had particularly affected me. 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 181 

The princess spoke to me unceasingly of the wish she had to go and re- 
join one of her sons, whom she believed to 'be alive, but of whose death 
I had been informed by a person belonging to her household. Hence I 
was anxious to do all that lay in my power to mitigate a sorrow which 
she must experience before long. 

At the moment when I quitted Spain for Marseilles, the duchess con- 
fided to me two letters which I was to forward in safety to their ad- 
dresses. One was destined for the Empress-mother of Russia, the other 
for the Empress of Austria. 

Scarcely had I arrived at Algiers when I mentioned these two letters 
to M. Dubois ThainviUe, and begged him to send them to France by the 
first opportunity. " I shall do nothing of the sort," he at once answered. 
'' Do you know that you have behaved in this affair like a young inex- 
perienced man, or to speak out, like a blunderer ? I am surprised that 
you did not comprehend that the Emperor, with his pettish spirit, might 
take this much amiss, and consider you, according to the contents of 
the two letters, as the promoter of an intrigue in favor of the exiled 
family of the Bourbons." Thus the paternal advice of the French con- 
sul taught Tie that in all that regards politics, however nearly or re- 
motely, one cannot give himself up, without danger, to the dictates of 
the heart and the reason. 

I inclosed my two letters in an envelope bearing the address of a 
trustworthy person, and gave them into the hands of a corsair, who, 
after touching at Algiers, would proceed to France. 1 have never known 
whether they reached their destination. 

The reigning Dey, successor to the beheaded Dey, had formerly filled 
the humble ofiBce of ^^Spileur^''* of dead bodies in the mosques. He gov- 
erned the regency with much gentleness, occupying himself with little 
but his harem. This disgusted those who had raised him to this emi- 
nent post, and they resolved upon getting rid of him. We became 
aware of the danger which menaced him, by seeing the courts and ves- 
tibules of the consular house full, according to the custom under such 
circumstances, of Jews, carrying with them whatever they had of most 
value. It was a rule at Algiers that all that happened in the interval 
comprised between the death of a Dey and the installation of his suc- 
cessor could not be followed up by justice, and must remain unpunished. 
One can imagine, then, why the children of Moses should seek safety in 
the consular houses, the European inhabitants of which had the courage 
to arm themselves for self-defense as soon as the danger was apparent, 
and who, moreover, had a janissary to guard them. 

While the unfortunate Dey " ^pileur " was being conducted toward 
the place where he was to be strangled, he heard the cannon which an- 
nounced his death and the Installation of his successor. " They are in 
great haste," said he, " what will you gain by carrying matters to ex- 

*An ^' Spileur" is a person who removes superfluous hairs. We have been unable to 
ascertain what office of this kind is performed in Mohamedan funerals. 



182 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

tremities ? Send me to the Levant; I promise yon never to rctnrn. What 
have you to reproach me with ?" "With nothirig," answered his escort, 
" but your insignificance. However, a man cannot live as a mere private 
man, after having been Dey of Algiers." And the unfortunate uian 
perished by the rope. 

The communication by sea between Bougie and Algiers was not so 
diflicnlt, even with the " sandalas,''^ as the Caid of the former town wished 
to assnre me. Captain S[)iro had the cases landed which belonged to 
me. The Caid sought to discover what they contained; and having 
l^erceived through a chink something yellowish, he hastened to send the 
news to the Bey, that the Frenchmen who had come to Algiers by land 
Lad among their baggage cases fdled with zechins, destined to revolu- 
tionize the Kabylie. They immediately had these cases forwarded to 
Algiers, and at their opening before the minister of naval atlaiis, all the 
phantasmagoria of zechins, of treasure, of revolution, disappeared at 
the sight of the stands and the limbs of several repeating circles in 
copi)er. 

We are now going to sojourn several months in Algiers. I will take 
advantage of this to put together some details of manne:>; which may 
be interesting as the picture of a state of things anterior to that of the 
occupation of the regency by the French. This occupation, it must be 
remarked, has already fundamentally altered the manners and the 
habits of the Algerine population. 

I am about to report a curious fact, and one which shows that politics, 
which insinuate themselves and bring discord into the bosom of the 
most united families, had succeeded, strange to say, in penetrating as 
far as the galley-slaves' prison at Algiers. The slaves belonged to three 
nations; there were in 1809 in this prison, Portuguese, Neapolitans, and 
Sicilians; among these two latter classes were counted partisans of 
Murat and those of Ferdinand of Naples. One day, at the beginning of 
the year, a dragoman came in the name of the Dey to beg M. Dubois 
Thainville to go without delay to the prison, where the friends of the 
French and their adversaries had involved themselves in a furious 
combat; and already several had fallen. The weapon with which they 
Btruck each other was the heavy long chain attached to their legs. 

Each consul, as I said above, had a janissary placed with him as his 
guard ; the one belonging to the French consul was a Candiote ; he had 
been surnamed The Terror. W^henever some news unfavorable to Fiance 
•was announced in the cafes, he came to the consulate to iiilbrm himself 
as to the reality of the fact; and when we told him that the other janis- 
saries had propagated false news, he returned to them, and there, yata 
gan in hand, he declared himself ready to enter the lists in combat 
against those who should still maintain the truth of the news. As these 
continual threats might endanger him (tor they had no sui)port beyond 
his mere animal courage) we had wished to render him expert in tlic 
handling of arms by giving him some lessons in fencing ; but he could 



J 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 183 

not endure tlio idea that Christians should tou( !i liim at every turn with 
foils ; he therefore proposed to substitute for the simulated duel a real 
combat with the yatagan. 

One may gain an exact idea of this savage nature when 1 mention 
that, having one day heard a pistol-shot, the sound of which i)roceeded 
from his room, people ran and found him bathed in his blood ; he had 
just shot oft" a ball into his arm to cure himself of a rheumatic i)ain. 

Seeing with what facility the Deys disai)peared, I said one day to our 
janissary, "With this prospect before your eyes, would you conseut to 
become Dey f" " Yes, doubtless," answered he. " You seem to count 
as nothing the pleasure of doing all that one likes, if only even for a 
single day !" 

When we wished to take a turn in the town of Algiers, we generally 
took care to be escorted by the janissary attached to the con- 
sular house ; it was the only means of escaping insults, affronts, and 
even acts of violence. I have just said it was the only means. I made 
a misti'.ke; there was one other; that was, to go in the company of a 
French "lazarist" of seventy years of age, and whose name, if my 
memory serves me, was Father Joshua; he had lived in this country 
for a halt a century. This man, of exemplary virtue, had devoted him- 
self with admirable self-denial to the service of the slaves of the regeuc3', 
and had divested himself of all considerations of nationality; the Portu- 
guese, ]S'eai>olitans, Sicilians, all were equally his brethren. 

In the tin.es of plague he was seen day and night carrying eager help 
to the MusS'ilmaiis; thus his virtue had conquered even religious 
hatreds; and vherever he i)assed he and the persons who might accom- 
pany him received from multitudes of the people, from the janissaries, 
and even from ;he ofticials of the mosques, the most respectful saluta- 
tions. 

During our ! org hours of sailing on board the Algerine vessel, and 
oureonipulsoi\v st;y in the prisons at Eosas, and on the hulk at Palamos, 
I gathered sonu," idiasas to the interior life of the j\[oors or the Coulougous, 
%vhich,even now wlen Algiers has fallen under the dominion of France, 
^oahl, perhaps, be yet worth preserving. I shall, however, confine 
myself to i-ecounting nearly word for word, a conversation which 1 had 
with liais Braham, wiose father was a " Turc Jin,''^ that is to say, a Turk 
born in the Levant. 

" How is it that youconsent," said I to him, "to marry a young girl 
■whom you have never seen, and find in" her, perhaps, an excessively 
ugly woman, instead of the beauty whom you had fancied to yourself?" 
"We never marry wthout having obtained information from the 
women who serve in thccapacity of servants at the public baths. The 
Jewesses are, moreover, u these cases very useful go-betweens." 
"How many legitinmtewives have you*?" 

" I have four — that is h say, the nuuiber authorized by the Koran." 
" Do they live together m a good understanding ?" 



184 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

"Ah, sir, my house is a hell. I never enter it without finding them 
at the step of the door, or at the bottom of the stairs ; then each wants 
to be the first to make me listen to the complaints which she has to 
bring against her companions. 1 am about to utter blasphemy, but I 
think that our holy religion ought to i^rohibit a i)lurality of wives to 
those who are not rich enough to give to each a separate habitation." 

" But since the Koran allows you to repudiate even legitimate wives, 
why do you not send back three of them to their parents ? " 

" Why ? Because that would ruin me. On the day of the marriage 
the father of the young woman to be married stipulates for a dowry, and 
the half of it is paid. The other half may be exacted the day that the 
woman is repudiated. It would then be three half-dowries that I shouZd 
have to pay if I sent back three of my wives. I ought, however, to 
rectify one inaccuracy in what I said just now, that my four wives had 
never agreed together. Once they were agreed among themselves in 
the feeling of a common hatred. In going through the market I had 
bought a young negress. In the evening, when I retired to rest, I per- 
ceived that my wives had prepared no bed for her, and that the unfor- 
tunate girl was extended on the ground. I rolled up my trowsers and 
laid them under her head as a kind of pillow. In the morning the 
distracting cries of the poor slave made me run to her, and I found her 
nearly sinking under the blows of my four wives ; for once they under- 
stood each other marvelonsly well." 

In February, 1809, the new Dey, the successor of the ' 6pileur," a 
short time after having entered on his functions, claimed frow two to three 
hundred thousand francs — I do not remember exactly the sum — which he 
pretended was due to him from the French governmeit. M. Dubois 
Thainville answered that he had received the Emperor's orders not to 
pay one centime. 

The Dey was furious, and decided upon declaring wtr against us. A 
declaration of war at Algiers used to be immediately fallowed by putting 
all the persons of other nations into prison. This tin?e matters were not 
pushed to this extreme limit. Our names might befiguring on the list 
of the slaves of the regency; but, in fact, so far ai I was concerned, I 
remained free in the consular house. By means o/ a pecuniary guaran- 
tee, contracted with the Swedish consul, M. IST^rderling, I was even 
permitted to live at his country-house, situatet near the Emperor's 
fort. 

The most insignificant event was sufficient to modify the ideas of 
these barbarians. 1 had come into the town cCte day, and was seated 
at table at M. Dubois Thainville's, when the English consul, Mr. Blank- 
ley, arrived in great haste, announcing to ourfconsul the entrance into 
the port of a French prize. " I never will uselessly add," said he, gen- 
erously, "to the severities of war; I came tqannounce to you, my col- 
league, that I will give up your prisoners on fi receipt which will insure 
me the deliverance of an equal number q Englishmen detained in 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 185 

France." '^ I thank you,'.' answered M, Dubois Thainville; "but I do 
not the less deplore this event that it will retard, indefinitely perhaps, 
the settlement of the account in which I am engaged with the Dey." 

During this conversation, armed with a telescope, T was looking 
through the window of the dining-room, trying to persuade myself at 
least that the captured vessel was not one of much importance. But 
one must yield to evidence. It was pierced for a great number of guns. 
All at once, the wind having displayed the flags, I perceived with sur- 
prise the French flag over the English flag. I communicated what I 
observed to Mr. Blankley. He answered immediately, " You do not 
surely pretend to observe better with your bad telescope than I did with 
my Doiland P 

"And you cannot pretend," said I to him in my turn, " to see better 
than an astronomer by profession ? I am sure of my fact. I beg M. 
Thainville's permission, and will go this instant to visit this mysterious 
prize." 

In short, I went th6re ; and this is what I learnt : 

General Duhesme, Governor of Barcelona, wishing to rid himself of 
the most ill-disciplined portion of his garrison, formed the principal part 
into the crew of a vessel, the command of which he gave to a lieutenant 
of Babastro, a celebrated corsair of the Mediterranean. 

There were among these improvised seamen a hussar, a dragoon, two 
veterans, a miner with his long beard, &c. The vessel, leaving Bar. 
celona by night, escaped the English cruiser, and got to the entrance 
of Port Mahon. An English " lettre de marque " was coming out of the 
port. The crew of the French vessel boarded her ; and a furious com- 
bat on the deck ensued, in which the French got the upper-hand. It 
was this "lettre de marque" which had now arrived at Algiers. 

Invested with full power by M. Dubois Thainville, I announced to the 
prisoners that they were about to be immediately given up to their 
consul. I respected even the trick of the captain, who, wounded by 
several saber cuts, had contrived to cover up his head with his principal 
flag. I reassured his wife; but my chief care was especially devoted to 
a passenger whom I saw, with one arm amputated. 

" Where is the surgeon," I said to him, " who operated on you ?" 

" It was not our surgeon," he answered. " He basely fled with a part 
of the crew, and saved himself on land." 

" Who, then, cut off your arm 1 " 

" It was the hussar whom you see here." 

" Unhappy man ! I exclaimed, " what could lead you, when it was not 
your profession, to perform this operation ? " 

" The pressing request of the wounded man. His arm had already 
swollen to an enormous size. He wanted some one to cut it off for him 
with a blow of a hatchet. I told him that in Egypt, when I was in hos- 
pital, I had seen several amputations made ; that I would imitate what 
1 had seen, and might i^erhaps succeed That at any rate it would be 



186 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

better than the blow of a batcbet. All was agreed ; I armed myself witli 
tbe carpenter's saw, and the operation was done.''' 

I went off immediatel.y to tbe American consul to claim the assistance 
of tbe only surgeon worthy of conlldence who was then in Algiers. JMr. 
Triplet — I think I recollect that that was the name of the man of the 
distinguished art whose aid 1 invoked — came at once on board the ves- 
sel, examined the dressing of the wound, and declared, to my very lively 
satisfaction, that ail was going on well, and that the Englishman would 
survive liis horrible injury. 

The same day we bad the wounded men carried on litters to JNIr. 
Blankley's house; this operation, executed with somewhat of ceremony, 
modilied, though sliglitly, the feelings of the Dey in our favor, and his 
sentiments became yet more favorable toward us in consequence of 
another maritime occurrence, although a verj' insignificant one. 

One day a corvette was seen in the horizon armed with a very great 
number of guns, and shai:)ing her way toward the port of Algiers ; tliero 
appeared immediately after an English brig of war in full sail ; a combat 
was, therefore, expected, and all theterraces of the town werecovered with 
si)ectators. The brig appeared to be the best sailer, and seemed to us 
likely to reach the corvette, but the latter tacked about, aiid seemed 
desirous to engage in battle; the English vessel lied before her; the 
corvette tacked about the second time, and again directed her course 
toward Algiers, where, one would have supposed, she had some special 
mission to execute. The brig in her turn now changed her course, but 
held herself constantly beyond the reach of shot from the corvette; at 
last the two vessels arrived in succession in the port, and cast anchor, to 
the lively disappointment of the Algerme population, who had hoped to 
be present without danger at a maritime combat between the "Christian 
dogs," belonging to two nations equally detested in a religious point of 
view; but shouts of laughter could not be repressed when it was seen 
that the corvette was a merchant vessel, and that she was only armed 
with wooden imitations of cannon. It was said in the town that the 
English sailors were furious, and had been on the point of mutiny against 
their too prudent captain. 

I have very little to tell in favor of the Algeriues; hence I must do an 
act of Justice by mentioning that the corvette departed the next day lor 
the Antilles, her destination, and that the brig was not permitted to set 
sail until the next day but one. 

I>nki'i often came to the French consulate to talk of our affairs with 
M. Dubois Tliainville. "What can you want?" said the latter; "yon are 
an Algerine ; you will be the first victim of the Dey's obstinacy. I have 
already written to Livorno that your families and your goods are to be 
seized. When the vessels laden with cotton, which you have in this 
port, arrive at IMarseilles, they will be immediately confiscated ; it is for 
j-ou to Judge whether it w^ould not better suit you to pay the sum which 
the Dey claims than to expose yourself to tenfold and certain loss." 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 187 

Such reasoning' was unanswerable ; and whatever it might cost him 
Bakri decided on paying- tlie snm that was demanded of I'^rance. 

Permission to depart was immediately granted to ns; 1 embarked the 
21st of Jnne, 1809, on board a vessel in which M. Dubois Thainville and 
liis family were passengers. 

The evening before our departure from Algiers, a corsair deposited at 
the (JonsuFs the Majorcan mail, which he had taken from a vessel which 
he had ca[)tured. It was a comi)lete collection of the letters which the 
inhabitants of the Baleares had been writing to their friends on the 
Continent. 

''Look here," said M. Dubois Thainville to me, "here is something to 
amuse you during the voyage, you who generally keep your room from 
sea-sickness; break the seals and read all these letters, and see whether 
they contain any accounts by which we might profit how to aid the un- 
happy soldiers who are dying of misery and despair in the little island 
of Cabrera." 

Scarcely had we arrived on board the vessel, when 1 set myself to 
the work, and acted without scruple or remorse the part of an official 
of the black chamber, with this sole diHerence, that the letters were 
unsealed without taking any precautions. I found among them several 
dispatches in which Adiniral Collingwood signified to the Spanish gov- 
ernment the ease with which the prisoners might be delivered. Imme- 
diately on our arrival at Marseilles these letters were sent to the minis- 
ter of uaval affairs, who, I believe, did not pay much attention to them. 

I knew almost every one at Palma, the capital of I\Iajorca. I leave it 
to be imagined with what curiosity I read the missives in which the 
beautiful ladies of the town exi^ressed their hatred against los malrUtos 
cavachios, (French,) whose presence in Spain had rendered necessary 
the dej)arture for the Continent of a magniflcent regiment of hussars; 
how many persons might I not have embroiled, if under a mask I had 
found myself with them at the opera ball ! 

IMany of the letters made mention of me, and were particularly inter- 
esting to me; I was sure in this instance there was nothing to constrain 
the frankness of those Avho had written them. It is an advantage which 
few people can boast having en.joycd to the same degree. 

The vessel in which I was, although laden with bales of cotton, had 
some corsair papers of the regency, and was the reputed escort of three 
richly laden merchant vessels which were going to France. 

We were off i\[arseilles on the 1st of Jul}-, when an English frigate 
came to stop our ])assage : " I will not take yon," said the English cap- 
tain, '-but you will go towards the Hycires Islands, and Admiral Colling- 
wood will decide on your fate." 

"I have received," answered the Barbary captain, " an express com- 
mission to conduct these vessels to Marseilles, and I will execute it." 

" You, individually, can do what may seem to you best," answered the 
Englishman; "as to the merchant vessels under your escort, they will 



188 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP FRANCIS ARAGO. 

be, I repeat to you, taken to Admiral Collingwood." And he immedi- 
ately gave orders to those vessels to set sail to the east. 

The frigate had already gone a little distance when she perceived 
that we were steering toward Marseilles. Having then learnt from the 
crews of the merchant vessels that we were ourselves laden with cotton, 
she tacked about to seize us. 

She was very near reaching us, when we were enabled to enter the 
port of the little island of Pomfegue. In the night she put her boats to 
sea to try to carry us off; but the enterprise was too perilous, and she 
did not dare attempt it. 

The next morning, 2d of July, 1809, I disembarked at the lazaretto. 

At the present day they go from Algiers to Marseilles in four days ; 
it had taken me eleven months to make the same voyage. It is true 
that here and there I had made involuntary sojourns. 

My letters sent from the lazaretto at Marseilles were considered by 
my relatives and friends as certiiicates of resurrection, they having for 
a long time past supposed me dead. A great geometer had even pro- 
posed to the Bureau of Longitude no longer to pay my allowance to my 
authorized representative ; which appears the more cruel inasmuch as 
this representative was my father. 

The first letter which I received from Paris was full of sympathy and 
congratulations on the termination of my laborious and perilous adven- 
tures ; it was from a man already in possession of an European reputa- 
tion, but whom I had never seen : M. de Humboldt, after what he had 
heard of my misfortunes, offered me his friendshii). Such Avas the first 
origin of a connection which dates from nearly forty-two years back, 
without a single cloud ever having troubled it. 

M. Dubois Thainville had numerous acquaintances in Marseilles ; his 
wife was a native of that town, and her family resided there. They 
received, therefore, both of them, numerous visits in the parlor of the 
lazaretto. The bell which summoned them, for me alone was dumb ; 
and I remained as solitary and forsaken, at the gates of a town 
peopled with a hundred thousand of my countrymen, as if I had been 
in the heart of Africa. One day, however, the parlor bell rang three 
times, (the number of times corresponding to the number of my room ;) 
I thought it must be a mistake ; I did not, however, allow this to appear. 
I traversed proudly under the escort of my guard of health the long 
space which separates the lazaretto, properly so called, from the parlor, 
and there I found, with very lively satisfaction, M. Pons, the director 
of the observatory at Marseilles, and the most celebrated discoverer of 
comets of whom the annals of astronomy have ever had to register the 
success. 

At any time a visit from the excellent M. Pons, whom I have since 
seen director of the observatory at Florence, would have been very 
agreeable to me; but during my quarantine I felt it unappreciably 
valuable. It proved to me that I had returned to my native soil. 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 189 

Two or three days before our admissioa to freedom, we experienced a 
loss w^hich was deeply felt by each of us. To pass away the heavy time 
of a severe quarantine, the little Algerine colony was in the habit of 
going to an inclosure near the lazaretto, where a very beautiful gazelle, 
belonging to M. Dubois Thainville, was confined ; she bounded about 
there in full liberty with a grace which excited our admiration. One of 
us endeavored to stop this elegant animal in her course ; he seized her 
unluckily by the leg, and broke it. We all ran, but only, alas ! to wit- 
ness a scene which excited the deepest emotion in us. 

The gazelle, lying on her side, raised her head sadly ; her beautiful 
eyes (the eyes of a gazelle !) shed torrents of tears ; no cry of complaint 
escaped her mouth ; she produced that effect upon us which is always 
felt when a person who is suddenly struck by an irreparable misfortune, 
resigns himself to it, and shows his profound anguish only by silent 
tears. 

Having ended my quarantine, I went at once to Perpignan, to the 
bosom of my family, where my mother, the most excellent and pious of 
women, caused numerous masses to be said to celebrate my return, as 
she had done before to pray for the repose of my soul, when she thought 
that I had fallen under the daggers of the Spaniards. But 1 soon quit- 
ted my native town to return to Paris ; and I deposited at the Bureau 
of Longitude and the Academy of Sciences my observations, which I had 
succeeded in preserving amidst the perils and tribulations of my long 
campaign. 

A few days after my arrival, on the 18th of September, 1809, 1 was 
nominated an academician in the place of Lalande. There were fifty- 
two voters; I obtained forty -seven voices, M, Poisson four, and M. Nouet 
one. I was then twenty-three years of age. 

A nomination made with such a majority would appear, at first sight, 
as if it would give rise to no serious diflQculties ; but it proved otherwise. 
The intervention of M. de Laplace, before the day of ballot, was active 
and incessant to have my admission postponed until the time when a 
vacancy, occurring in the geometry section, might enable the learned 
assembly to nominate M. Poisson at the same time as me. The author 
of the Mecanique Celeste had vowed to the young geometer an unbounded 
attachment, completely justified, certainly, by the beautiful researches 
which science already owed to him. M. de Laplace could not support 
the idea that a young astronomer, younger by five years than M. Poisson, 
a pupil, in the presence of his professor at the Polytechnic School, should 
become an academician before him. He proposed to me, therefore, to 
write to the Academy that I would not stand for election until there should 
be a second place to give to Poisson. I answered by a formal refusal, 
and giving my reasons in these terms : " I care little to be nominated at 
this moment. I have decided upon leaving shortly with M. de Humboldt 
for Thibet. In those savage regions the title of member of the Institute 
will not smooth the difficulties which we shall have to encounter. But 



190 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

I would not be guilty of any rudeness toward the Academy, If they 
were to receive the declaration for which I am asked, would not the 
savans who composed this illustrious body have a right to say to rac : 
"How are you certain that we have thought of you? You refuse what 
has not yet been offered to you.'" 

On seeing my lirm resolution not to lend myself to the inconsiderate 
course which he had advised me to follow, M. de Laplace went to work 
in another waj' : he maintained that I had not suflicient distinction for 
admission into the Academy. I do not i^retend that, at the age of 
thrce-aud-twenty, my scientific attainments were very considerable, if 
estimated in an absolute manner; but when I judged b}- comparison, I 
regained courage, especially on considering that the three last years of 
my life had been consecrated to the measurement of an arc of the meri- 
diaii in a foreign country ; that they were passed amid the storms of the 
■war with Spain; often enough in dungeons, or, what was yet worse, in 
the mountains of Kabylia, and atxVlgiers, at that time a very dangerous 
residence. 

Uere is, therefore, my statement of accounts for that epoch. I make 
it over to the impartial appreciation of the reader: 

On leaving the Polytechnic School, I had made, in conjunction with 
M. liiot, an extensive and very minute resean-h on the determination of 
the coellicicnt of the tables of atmosi)heric reiVaction. 

We had also measured the refraction of dillerent gases, which, up to 
that time, had not been attempted. 

A determination, more exact than had been previously obtained, of 
the relation of the weight of air to the weight of mercury, had furnished 
a direct value of the coefticient of the barometrical formula which served 
for the calculation of the heights. 

1 had contributed, in a regular and very assiduous manner, during 
nearly two years, to the observations which were m;ule day and night 
with the transit telescope and with the mural quadrant at the Paris 
Observatory. 

I had undertaken, in conjunction with ISI. Bouvard, the observations 
relating to the verification of the laws of the moon'.s libration. All the 
calculations were i')repared ; it only remained for me to put the numbers 
into the ibrmuhx;, when I was, by order of the P>ureau of Longitude, 
o!)liged to leave Paris for Spain. I had observed various comets, and 
calculated their orbits. I had, in concert with .AI. Louvard, calculated, 
according to Lai)lace's formula, tlic table of reiVaction which has been 
])ublished in the Rccucil dcs Tables of the Bureau of Longitude, and in 
the ConiKiLssdiice dcs Temps. A research on the velocity of light, made 
"With a i)rism placed befcre the object end of the telescope of the nuu'al 
circle, had proved that the same tables of refraction might serve for the 
sun and all tlie stars. 

Finally, 1 had just terminated, under very difficult circumstances, the 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 191 

grandest triangulatiou wliicli bad ever been acbieved, to prolong the 
meridian line from France as far as the Island of Formentera. 

M. de Laplace, without denying the importance and utility of these 
Iab;)rs and tliese researches, saw in them nothing more than indications 
of promise ; M. Lagrange then said to him exj)iicit!y : 

" \i on yon, M. de Lap'ace, when you entered the Academy, bad done 
nothing brillifwit; you only gave promise. Your grand discoveries did 
not come till afterward." 

Lagrange was the only man in Europe who could with authority 
address such an observation to him. 

^L de Laplace did not reply upon the ground of the personal question, 
but he added, "I maintain that it is useful to young savans to hold 
out the i)osition of member of the Institute as a future recompense, to 
excite their zeal." 

"You resemble," replied M. Halle, "the driver of the hackney coach, 
who, to excite his horses to a gallop, tied a bundle of hay at the end of 
his carriage i)ole; the poor horses redoubled their efforts, and the bundle 
of hay always flew on before them. After all, his plan nuule them iall 
off, and soon after brought on their death." 

Delambre, Legendre, Biot, insisted on the devotion, and what they 
teriiied the courage, with which I had combated arduous difficulties, 
wh''tlier in carrying on the observations, or in saving the instruments 
and the results already obtained. They drew an animated picture of 
the dangers I had undergone. M. de Laplace ended by yielding when 
he saw that all the most eminent men of the Academy had taken mo 
under their patronage, and on the day of the election ho gave me his 
\oto. It would be, I must own, a subject of regret with me even to 
this day, aiter a lapse of forty-two years, if I had become member of the 
Institute without having obtained the vote of the author of the Jlevaiiique 
Celeste. 

The members of the Institute were always i)resented to the Emperor 
after he had confirmed their nominations. On the appointed day, in 
co:n[)aMy with the presidents, with the secretaries of the four classes, 
and with the academicians who had special publications to offer to the 
Chief of the State, they assembled in one of the saloons of the Tuileries. 
When the Emi>eror returned from mass, he held a kind of review of 
these savans, these artists, these literary- men, in green uniform. 

I nuist own that the spectacle which I witnessed on the day of my 
presentation did ik t edify me. I even experienced real displeasure iu 
seeing the anxiety evinced by members of the Institute to be noticed. 

"You are very young," said Napoleon to me on coining near me; and 
wirhuut waiting for a flattering reply, which it woukl not have been 
difiicuit to find, he added, "What is your name?" Aiul my neighbor 
on the right, not leaving me time to answer the simple enough question 
just addressed to me, hastened to say : 

"iZii- name is Arago." 



192 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

" What science do you cultivate ? " 

My neiglibor ou the left immediately replied — 

"iZe cultivates astronomy." 

"What have you done?" 

My neighbour on the right, jealous of my left hand neighbor for 
having encroached on his rights at the second question, now hastened to 
reply, and said : 

"jffe has just been measuring the line of the meridian in Spain." 

The Emperor, imagining doubtless that he had before him either a 
dumb man or an imbecile, passed on to another member of the Institute. 
This one was not a novice, but a naturalist well known through his 
beautiful and important discoveries, it was M. Lamarck. The old man 
presented a book to Napoleon. 

"What is that?" said the latter, "it is your absurd meteorology, in 
which you rival Matthieu Laensberg. It is this 'annuaire' which dis- 
honors your old age. Do something in natural history, and I should 
receive j^our productions with pleasure. As to this volume, I only take 
it in consideration of your white hair. Herel" And he passed the 
book to an aide-de-camp. 

Poor M. Lamarck, who, at the end of each sharp and insulting sentence 
of the Emperor, tried in vain to say, "It is a work on natural history 
which I present to you," was weak enough to fall into tears. 

The Emperor immediately afterward met with a more energetic antag- 
onist in the person of M. Lanjuinais. The latter had advanced, book in 
hand. Napoleon said to him, sneeringly: 

"The entire Senate, then, is to merge in the Institute?" "Sire," 
replied Lanjuinais, "it is the body of the state to which most time is left 
for occupying itself with literature." 

The Emperor, displeased at this answer, at once quitted the civil 
uniforms, and busied himself among the great epaulettes which filled the 
room. 

Immediately after my nomination I was exposed to strange annoyances 
on the part of the military authorities. I had left for Spain, still holding 
the title of pupil of the Polytechnic School. My name could not remain 
on the books more than four years ; consequently I had been enjoined 
to return to France to go through the examinations necessary on quit- 
ting the school. But in the meantime Lalande died, and thus a place 
in the Bureau of Longitude became vacant. I was named assistant 
astronomer. These places were submitted to the nomination of the 
Emperor. M. Lacu6e, director of the conscription, thought that, through 
this latter circumstance, the law would be satisfied, and I was author- 
ized to continue my operations. 

M. Matthieu Dumas, who succeeded him, looked at the question from 
an entirely difterent point of view ; he enjoined me either to furnish 
a substitute, or else set off myself with the contingent of the twelfth 
arrondissement of Paris. 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 193 

All ray remonstrances and those of my friends having been fruitless, 
I announced to the honorable general that I should present myself in 
the Place de I'Estrapade, whence the conscripts had to depart, in the 
costume of a member of the Institute; and that thus I should march on 
foot through the city of Paris. General Matthieu Dumas was alarmed 
at the eifect which this scene would produce on the Emperor, himself a 
member of the Institute, and hastened, under fear of my threat, to con- 
lirm the decision of General Lacu6e. 

In the year 1809, I was chosen by the "conseil du perfectionnement" 
of the Polytechnic School to succeed M. Monge, in his chair of analysis 
aj)plied to geometry. The circumstances attending that nomination 
have remained a secret ', I seize the first opportunity which offers itself 
to me to make them known. 

M. Monge took the trouble to come to me one day, at the observatory, 
to ask me to succeed him. I declined this honor, because of a pro])osed 
journey which I was going to make into Central Asia with M. de Hum- 
boldt. "You will certainly not set off for some months to come," said the 
llustrious geometer ; " you could, therefore, take my place temporarily." 
''Your proposal," I replied, "flatters me infinitely; but I do not know 
whether I ought to accept it. I have never read your great work on 
partial differential equations ; I do not, therefore, feel certain that I 
should be competent to give lessons to the pupils of the Polytechnic 
School on such a difficult theory." " Try," said lie, " and you will find 
that that theory is clearer than it is generally supposed to be." Accor- 
dingly, I did try; and M. Monge's opinion appeared to me to be well 
founded. 

The public could not comprehend, at that time, how it was that the 
benevolent M. Monge obstinately refused to confide the deliver}^ of his 
course to M. Biuet, (a private teacher under him,) whose zeal was well 
known. It is this motive which I am going to reveal. 

There Avas then in the " Bois de Boulogne " a residence named the 
Grey House, where there assembled around M. Coessin, the hig-h-priest 
of a new religion, a number of adepts, such as Lesueur, the musician, 
Colin, private teacher of chemistry at the school, M. Binet, &g. A report 
from the prefect of police had signified to the Emperor that the frequent- 
ers of the Grey House were connected with the Society of Jesuits. The 
Emperor was uneasy and irritated at this. " Well," said he to M. Monge, 
"there are your dear pupils become disciples of Loyola!" And on 
Monge's denial, "Y^'ou deny it, " answered the Emperor; "well, then, 
know that the private teacher of your course is in that clique." Every 
one can understand that after such a remark, Monge could not consent 
to being succeeded by M. Binet. 

Having entered the Academy, young, ardent, and impassioned, I took 
much greater i:>art in the nominations than may have been suitable for 
my position and my time of life. Arrived at an epoch of life whence I 
examine retrospectively all my actions with calmness and impartiality, 

13 S 



194 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

I can render this amount of justice to myself, that, excepting iu three 
or four instances, my vote and interest were always iu favor of the most 
deserving candidate, and more than once I succeeded in preventing the 
Academy from making a deplorable choice. Who could blame me for 
having maintained with energy the election of Mains, considering that 
his competitor, M. Girard, nnknown as a physicist, obtained twenty-two 
votes out of lifty-three, and that au addition of five votes would have 
given him the victory over the savant who had just discovered the 
phenomenon of polarization by reflection, over the savant whom Europe 
would have named by acclamation ? The same remarks are ai)plicable 
to the nomination of Poisson, who would. have failed against this same 
M. Girard if four votes had been otherwise given. Does not this suffice 
to justify the unusual ardor of my conduct'? Although iu a third trial 
the majority of the Academy was decided in favor of the same engineer, 
I cannot regret tliat I supported up to the last moment with conviction 
and warmth the election of his competitor, M. Dulong. 

I do not suppose that, in the scientific world, any one will be disposed 
to blame me for having preferred M. Liouville to M. de Pontecoulant. 

Sometimes it happened that the government wished to influence the 
choice of the Academy ; with a strong sense of my rights I invariably 
resisted all dictation. Once this resistance acted unfortunately on one 
of my friends — the venerable Legendre : as to myself, I had prepared 
myself beforehand for all the persecutions of which I could be made the 
object. Having received from the minister of the interior an invitation 
to vote for M. Binet against M. Navier on the occurrence of a vacant 
place iu the section of mechanics, Legendre nobly answered that he 
would vote according to his soul and his conscience. He was immediately 
deprived of a ijension which his great age and his long services rendered 
due to him. ThG 2^'^ofege of the authorities failed ; and, at the time, this 
result was attributed to the activity with which I enlightened the mem- 
bers of the Academy as to the impropriety of the minister's proceedings. 

Ou another occasion the King wished the Academy to name Dupuytren, 
the eminent surgeon, but whose character at the time lay under grave 
imputations. Dupuytren was nominated, but several blanks protested 
against the interference of the authorities in academic elections. 

I said above that I had saved the Academy from some deplorable choices ; 
I will only cite a single instance, on which occasion I had the sorrow of 
finding myself in opposition to M. de Laplace. The illustrious geometer 
wished a vacant place in the astronomical section to be granted to M. 
Nicollet — a man without talent. At the close of a contest, which I 
maintained undisguisedly, notwithstanding the danger which might 
follow from thus braving the powerful j)rotectors of M. Nicollet, the 
Academy proceeded to the ballot ; the respected M. Damoiseau, whose 
election I had supported, obtained forty -five votes out of forty-eight. 
Thus M. Nicollet had collected but three. 

" I see," said M. de Laplace to me, " that it is useless to struggle 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 195 

against young people; I acknowledge that tlie man who is called the 
g^-eat elector of the Academy is more powerful than I am." 

" ISTo," replied I ; "M. Arago can only succeed in counterbalancing 
the opinion justly preponderating for M. de Laplace, when the right is 
found to be without possible contradiction on his side." 

I would warn those savants, who having early entered the Academy, 
might be tempted to imitate my example, to expect nothing beyond the 
satisfaction of their conscience. 1 warn them, with a knowledge of the 
case, that gratitnde will almost always be found wanting. 

The elected Academician, whose merits you have sometimes ex- 
alted beyond measure, x>retends that you have done no more than jus- 
tice to him; that you have only fulfilled a duty, and that he therefore 
owes you no thanks. 

Delambre died the 19th August, 1822. After the necessary delay, 
they proceeded to fill his place. The situation of perpetual secretary is 
not one which can long be left vacant. The Academy named a commis- 
sion to present it with candidates ; it was composed of Messrs. de La- 
place, Arago, Legendre, Eossel, Prony, and Lacroix. The list presented 
was composed of the names of Messrs. Biot, Fourier, and Arago. It is 
not necessary for me to say with what obstinacy I opposed the inscrip- 
tion of my name on this list ; I was compelled to give way to the will of 
my colleagues, but I seized the first opportunity of declaring publicly 
that I had neither the exi)ectation nor the wish to obtain a single vote; 
that, moreover, I had on my hands already as much w^ork as I could get 
through ; that in this respect M. Biot was in the same position ; and 
that, in short, I should vote for the nomination of M. Fourier. 

It was supposed, but I dare not flatter myself that it was the fact, 
that my declaration exercised a certain influence on the result of the 
ballot. The result was as follows : M. Fourier received thirty-eight 
votes, and M. Biot ten. In a case of this nature each man carefully con- 
ceals his vote, in order not to run the risk of future disagreement with 
him who may be invested with the authority which the Academy gives 
to the perpetual secretary. I do not know whether I shall be pardoned 
if I recount an incident which amused the Academy at the time. 

M. de Laplace, at the moment of voting, took two plain pieces of pa- 
per; his neighbor was guilty of the indiscretion of looking, and saw 
distinctly that the illustrious geometer wrote the name of Fourier on 
both of them. After quietly folding them up, M. de Laplace put the 
papers into his hat, shook it, and said to this same curious neighbor : 
" You see, I have written two papers ; I am going to tear up one; I shall 
put the other into the urn ; I shall thus be myself ignorant for which 
of the two candidates I have voted." 

All went on as the celebrated Academician had said ; only that every 
one knew with certainty that his vote had been for Fourier; and "the 
calculation of probabilities " was in no way necessary for arriving at 
this result. 



196 AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANCIS ARAGO. 

After liaviug: fulfilled the duties of secretary with much distinction, 
but not without some feebleness and negligence in consequence of his 
bad health, Fourier died the 16th of May, 1830. I declined several times 
the honor which the Academy appeared willing to do me, in naming me 
to succeed him. I believed, without false modesty, that I had not the 
qualities necessary to fill this important place suitably. When thirty- 
nine out of forty-four voters had appointed me, it was quite time that 1 
should give in to an opinion so flattering and so i)lainly expressed. On 
the 7th of June, 1830, I, therefore, became perpetual secretary of the 
Academy for the Mathematical Sciences ; but, conformably to the plea 
of an accumulation of offices, which I had used as an argument to sup- 
port, in November, 1822, the election of M. Fourier, I declared that I 
should give in my resignation of the professorship in the Polytechnic 
School. ]S"either the solicitations of Marshal Soult, the minister of war, 
nor those of the most eminent members of the Academy, could avail in 
persuading me to renounce this resolution. 



BER8CHEL. 



By M. Arago. 



William Heeschel, one of the greatest astronomers that ever lived 
iu any age or country, was born at Hanover, on the 15tli of November, 
1738. The name of Herschel has become too illustrious for the world to 
neglect searching back, along the stream of time, to learn the social 
position of the families that have borne it. Yet pardonable curiosity 
on this subject has not been entirely satisfied. We only know that 
Abraham Herschel, great-grandfather of the astronomer, resided at 
Mahren, whence he was expelled on account of his strong attachment 
to the Protestant faith ; that Abraham's son Isaac was a farmer in the 
vicinity of Leipzig ; that Isaac's eldest son, Jacob Herschel, disappointed 
his father's earnest desire to see him devote himself to agriculture, that 
he determined on being a musician, and settled at Hanover. 

Jacob Herschel, father of William, the astronomer, was an eminent 
musician, not less remarkable for the good qualities of his heart than for 
those of his mind. His very limited means did not enable him to bestow 
a complete education on his family, consisting of six boys and four girls, 
although, by his care, his ten children all became excellent musicians. 
The eldest, Jacob, even acquired a rare degree of skill, which pro- 
cured for him the appointment of master of the baud in a Hanoverian 
regiment, which he accompanied to England. The third son, William, 
remained under his father's roof, and, without neglecting the fine arts, 
took lessons in the Freach language, and devoted himself to the study 
of metaphysics, for which he retained a taste to his latest day. 

In 1759 William Herschel, then about twenty-one years of age, went 
over to England, not with his father, as has been erroneously stated, 
but with his brother Jacob, whose connections in that country seemed 
likely to favor the young man's opening prospects in life. But neither 
Loudon nor the country towns afibrded him any resource in the begin- 
ning, and the first two or three years after his expatriation were marked 
with cruel privations, which were, however, manfully endured. A fortun- 
ate chance finally raised the young Hanoverian to a better position ; 
Lord Durham engaged him as master of the baud in an English regiment 
which was quartered on the borders of Scotland. From this moment 
he began to acquire a reputation as a musician that was gradually 
extended, until in 1706 he was appointed organist at Halifax, (York- 
shire.) The emoluments of this situation, together with those of giving 
private lessons both in the town and the country around, afforded him 
the means to remedy, or rather to complete, his early education. It was 



lf>8 HERSCHEL. 

then that he learned Latin and Italian, though without any other help 
than a grammar and a dictionary, and that he also acquired some 
knowledge of Greek. So great was the desire for knowledge with which 
he was inspired that while residing at Halifax he found means to continue 
his philological exercises, and at the same time to study deeply the learned 
but very obscure mathematical work of Smith on the theory of music. 
This treatise, either explicitly or implicitly, supposed the reader to 
have a knowledge of algebra and geometry, which Herschel did not 
possess, but of which he made himself master in a very short time. 

In 170G Herschel obtained the a])poiutment of organist to the Octagon 
Chapel at Bath. This was a more lucrative post than that at Halifax, 
but it also devolved on him new obligations. He had to play inces- 
santly either at the oratorios, or in the rooms at the baths, at the 
theater, and in the public concerts. Besides this, from among his patrons 
in the most fashionable circle of England, he could not refuse to take 
numerous pupils who wished to be instructed in his art. It is difficult to 
imagine how, among so many duties, so many distractions of various 
kinds, Herschel could continue the studies, which even at Halifax had 
required so much resolution and perseverance, with a very uncommon 
degree of talent. We have seen that it was by music that Herschel 
was led to mathematics ; mathematics in their turn led hini to optics, 
the principal and fertile source of his illustrious career. The time 
finally arrived when his theoretic knowledge was to guide tiie young 
musician into a laborious application of principles quite foreign to his 
habits ; and of which the brilliant success, as well as the excessive 
temerity, must excite reasonable astonishment. 

A telescope — a simple reflector, only two English feet in length falls 
into the hands of Herschel during his residence at Bath. This in- 
strument, however imperfect, shows him a multitude of stars in the 
sky that the naked eye cannot discern; shows him also enlarged known 
objects, under their true dimensions; reveals forms to him that the 
richest imaginations of antiquity had never suspected. He is trans- 
ported with enthusiasm, and resolves, without delay, to have a similar in- 
strument but of larger size. The answer from Loudon is delayed for 
some days. These few days appear to him as years. When the answer 
arrives, tlie price that the optician demands proves to be much beyond 
the pecuniary resources of a mere organist. To any other man this 
would have been an un surmountable obstacle. This unexpected diffi- 
culty, on the contrary, inspired Herschel with fresh energy. He can- 
not buy a telescope; then he will construct one with his own hands. 
The musician of the Octagob Chapel rushes immediately into a mul- 
titude of experiments, on metallic alloys that reflect light with the 
greatest intensity, on the means of giving the parabolic figure to the 
mirrors, on the causes that in the operation of x)olishing affect the 
regularity of the reflection, &c. So rare a degree of perseverance at last 
receives its reward. In 1774 Herschel has the happiness of being 



HERSCHEL. 199 

able to examiue the heavens with a Newtonian telescope of five English 
feet focus, entirely made by himself. This success tempts him to under- 
take still more difficult enterprises. Other telescopes of seven, of eight, 
of ten, and even of twenty feet focal distance, crown his eftbrts. As if 
to answer in advance those critics who would have accused him of a 
superfluity of apparatus, of unnecessary luxury, in the large size of the 
new instruments, and his extreme minutiae in their execution, Nature 
granted to the astronomical musician, on the 13th of March, 1781, the 
unprecedented honor of commencing his career of observation with the 
discovery of a new planet, situated on the confines of our solar system. 
Dating from that moment, Herschel's reputation, no longer in his 
character of musician, but as a constructor of telescopes and as an 
astronomer, spread throughout the world. George III, a lover of 
science, and much inclined besides to protect and patronize both men 
and things of Hanoverian origin, had Herschel presented to him. He 
was charmed with the simple yet lucid and modest account that the 
astronomer gave of his repeated endeavors ; he caught a glimpse of 
the glory that such an observer might reflect on his reign ; granted him 
a pension of three hundred guineas a year, and furnished him with a resi- 
dence near Windsor Castle, first at Clay Hall and then at Slough. The 
anticipations of George III were completely realized. We may confidently 
assert, relative to the little house at Slough, that it is the place of all 
the world where the greatest number of astronomical discoveries have 
beeu made. The name of that village will never perish. Science will 
transmit it religiously to our latest posterity. 

I shall avail myself of this opportunity to rectify a mistake, of which 
ignorance and idleness wish to make a triumphant handle, or, at all 
events, to wield in their cause as an irresistible justification. It has 
been repeated to satiety that at. the time when Herschel entered on his 
astronomical career he knew nothing of mathematics. But I have already 
said that, during his residence at Bath, the organist of the Octagon 
Chapel had familiarized himself with the principles of geometry and 
algebra; and a still more positive proof of this is, that a difficult 
question on the vibration of strings loaded with small weights having 
been proi)osed for discussion in 1779, Herschel gave it a solution which 
was thought worthy to be inserted in several scientific periodicMs-of the 
year 1780. " "^ 

The adventurous life of Herschel is here closed. The great astrono- 
mer will not quit his observatory any more, except to submit the sublime 
results of his laborious vigils to the Eoyal Society of London. These 
results are contained in his memoirs ; they constitute one of the principal 
riches of the celebrated collection known under the title of Fhilosophical 
Transactions. 

Herschel was even elected as a member of the principal academies of 
Europe, and about 181G he was named a Knight of the Guelphic Order 
of Hanover. According to the English custom, from the time of that 



200 HERSCHEL. 

cominatiou the title of Sir William took the place, on all bis memoirs, 
already honored with so much celebrity, of the former appellation 
of Doctor William. He had beeu named a doctor of laws in the 
University of Oxford in 1786. This dignity, by special favor, was con- 
ferred on him without any of the obligatory formalities of examination, 
disputation, or pecuniary contribution, usual in that learned corporation. 

I should wound the elevated sentiments that Herschel professed all 
his life, if I were not here to mention two indefatigable assistants that 
this fortunate astronomer found in his own family. The one was Alex- 
ander Herschel, endowed with a remarkable talent for mechanism, 
always at his brother's service, and who enabled him to realize without 
delay any ideas that he had conceived;* the other was Miss Caroline 
Herschel, who deserves a still more particular and detailed mention. 

Miss Caroline Lucretia Herschel went to England as soon as her 
brother became special astronomer to the King. She received the 
appellation there of Assistant Astronomer, with a moderate salary. 
From that moment she unreservedly devoted herself to the service of 
her brother, happy in contributing night and day to his rapidly increasing 
scientific reputation. Miss Caroline shared in all the night-watches of 
her brother, with her eye constantly on the clock, and the pencil in her 
hand ; she, without exception, recorded all the observations ; she after- 
ward made three or four copies in separate registers; coordinated, 
classed, and analyzed them. If the scientific world saw with astonish- 
ment how HerschePs works succeeded each other with unexampled 
rapidity during so many years, they were specially indebted for it to the 
ardor of Miss Caroline. Astronomy, moreover, has been directly 
enriched with several comets by this excellent and respectable lady. 
After the death of her illustrious brother, she retired to Hanover, to the 
house of Jalm Dietrich Herschel, a musician of high reputation, and 
the only surviving brother of the astronomer. 

William Herschel died without pain on the 23d of August, 1822, aged 
eighty-three. Neither fame nor fortune ever changed in him the fund of 
infantine candor, inexhaustible benevolence, and sweetness of character 
with which nature had endowed him-. He preserved to the last both 
his brightness of mind and vigor of intellect. For some years before 
his dent' ^'^e enjoyed with delight the distinguished success of his only 
'■ w,t Sir John Herschel. At his last hour he sunk to rest with the 
pleasing conviction that his beloved son, heir of a great name, would 
not allow it to fall into oblivion, but would adorn it with fresh luster, 

* When age and infirmities obliged Alexander Herschel to give np his profession as a 
musician, he qnitted Bath and returned to Hanover, very generously provided by Sir 
William with a comfortable independence for life. 

t Sir W. Herschel had married Mary, the widow of John Pitt, esq., possessed of a con- 
siderable jointure, and the union proved a remarkable accession of domestic happiness. 
This lady survived Sir William by several years. They had but this sou.— Tkansla- 
tok's Note. 



HERSCHEL. 201 

and that great discoveries would also honor his career . No prediction 
of the illustrious astronomer has been more completelj^ verified. 

In the English journals an account is given of the interestingmeans 
adopted by the family of Sir William Herschel for preserving the remains 
of the great telescope of thirty -niue feet focus, constructed by that cele- 
brated astronomer. 

The metal tube of the instrument, carrying at one end the recently 
cleaned mirror of four feett^n inches in diameter, has been placed hori- 
zontally in the meridian on solid piers of masonry, in the midst of the 
circle where formerly stood the mechanism requisite for maneuvering 
the telescope. The 1st of January, 1840, Sir John Herschel, his wife, 
their children, seven in number, and some old family-servants assembled 
at Slough. Exactly at noon the party walked several times in proc(;s- 
sion around the instrument : they then entered the tube of the telescope, 
seated themselves on benches that had been prepared for the ])urpose, 
and sung a requiem, with English words, composed by Sir John Herschel 
himself. After tlieir exit, the illustrious family ranged themselves around 
the great tube, tlie opening of which was then hermetically sealed. The 
day concluded with a party of intimate friends. 

I know not whether those persons who can only apprecijite things 
from the peculiar point of view from which they have been accustomed 
to look, may think there was something strange in several of the details 
of the ceremony that I have just described. I affirm, however, that the 
whole world will applaud the pious feeling which actuated Sir John 
Herschel, and that all the friends of science will thank him for having 
consecrated the humble garden where his father achieved such immortal 
labors by a monument more expressive in its simplicity than pyramids 
or statues. 

CHEONOLOGICAL TABLE OF THE MEMOIRS OF WILLIAM HERSCHEL.* 

1780. PMlosojylncal Transactions, vol. Ixx. — Aslronomical observations on the periodical 
star in the neck of the Whale. — Astronomical observations relative to the lunar 
mountains. 

1781. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxi. — Astronomical observations on the rotation of the planets 
on their axes, made with a view to decide whether the daily rotation of the earth be 
always the same. — On the comet of 1781, afterward called the Gcorgium Si'^-'s. 

1782. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxii. — On the parallax of the fixed stars.— Catalogne of double 
stars.— Description of a lamp micrometer, and the method of using it. — Answers to the 
doubts that might be raised to the high magnifying powers used by Herschel. • 

1783. Pliil. Trans., vol. Ixxiii. — Letter to Sir Joseph Banks on the name to be given 
to the new planet. — On the diameter of the Georgium Sidus, follov.'cd by the description 
of .1 micrometer with luminous or dark disks. — On the proper motion of the solar system, 
and the various changes that have occurred among the fixed stars since the time of 
Flamsteed. 

1784. Pliif. Trans., vol. Ixxiv. — On some remarkable appearances in the polar regions 
of Mars, the inclination of its axis, the position of its poles, and its spheroidal form.— 

* These titles are copied direct from the Philosophical Transactions, instead of being re-translated.— 
TRAASLAtoK's Note. 



202 HERSCHEL. 

Some details on the real diameter of Mars, and on its atmosphere. — Analysis of some 
observations on the constitution of the heavens. 

1785. Phil. D-ans., vol. Ixxv. — Catalogue of double stars. — On the constitution of the 
heavens. 

1786. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxvi. — Catalogue of a thousand nebulse and clusters of 
stars. — Eesearchcs on the cause of a defect of definition in vision, which has been at- 
tributed to the smallness of the ojitic pencils. 

1787. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxvii. — Remarks on the new comet. — Discovery of two 
satellites revolving round George's Planet. — On th ree volcanoes in the moon. 

1788. Pliil. Trans., vol. Ixxviii. — On George's Planet (Uranus) and its satellites. 

1789. Pltil. Trans., vol. Ixxix.— Observations on a comet. — Catalogue of a second thou- 
sand new nebulas and clusters of stars. — Some preliminary remarks on the constitution 
of the heavens. 

1790. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxx. — Discovery of Saturn's sixth and seventh satellites ; 
with remarks on the constitution of the riug, on the planet's rotation round an axis, 
on its spheroidal form, and on its atmosphere. — On Saturn's satellites, and the rotation 
of the riug round an axis. 

1791. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxxi. — On the nebulous stars and the suitableuess of this 
epithet. 

1792. Pltil. Trans., vol. Ixsxii. — On Saturn's ring, and the rotation of the planet's 
fifth satellite round an axis. — Mixed observations. 

1793. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxxiii. — Observations on the planet Venus. 

1794. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxxiv. — Observations on a quintuple band in Saturn. — On 
some peculiarities observed during the last solar eclipse. — On Saturn's rotation round 
an axis. 

1795. — Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxxv. — On the nature and physical constitution of the 
sun and stars. — Description of a reflecting telescope forty feet in length. 

1796. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxxvi. — Method of observing the changes that happen to the 
fixed stars; remarks on the stability of our sun's light. — Catalogue of comparative 
brightness, to determine the permanency of the luster of stars. — On the periodical star 
a Herculis, with remarks tending to establish the rotatory motion of the stars on their 
axes ; to which is added a second catalogue of the brightness of the stars. 

1797. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxxvii. — A third catalogue of the comparative brightness of 
the stars ; with an introductory account of an index to Mr. Flamstecd's observations of 
the fixed stars, contained in the second volume of the Plistoria Crolestis, to which are 
added several useful results derived from that index. — Observations of the changeable 
brightuess of the satellites of Jupiter, and of the variation in their apparent magni- 
tudes ; with a determination of the time of their rotary motions on their axes, to which is 
added a measure of the diameter of the second satellite, and an estimate of the com- 
parative size of the fourth. 

1793. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxxviii. — On the discovery of four additional satellites of the 
Georgium Sidus. The retrograde motion of its satellites .announced ; and the cause of 
their disappearance at certain distances from the planet explained. 

1799. Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxxix. — A fourth catalogue of the comparative brightness of 
the stars. 

1800. Phil. Trans., vol. xc. — On the power of penetrating into space by telescopes, 
with a comparative determination of the extent of that power in natural vision, and 
in telescopes of various sizes and construction ; illustrated by select observations. — In- 
vestigation of the powers of the prismatic colors to heat raid illuminate objects; with 
remarks that prove the different refrangibility of radiant heat ; to which is added an 
inquiry into the method of viewing the sun advantageously with telescopes of large 
apertures and high magnifying powers. — Experiments on the refrangibility of the in- 
visible rays of the suu. — Experiments on the solar and on the terrestrial rays that occa- 
sion heat ; with a comparative view of the laws to which light and heat, or rather the 
rays which occasion them, are subject, in order to determine v/hether they are the same 
or different. 



HERSCHEL. 203 

1801. Phil. Trans., vol. xci. — Observations tending to investigate the nature of the 
sun, in order to lindthe causes or symptoms of its variable emission of light and heat; 
with remarks on the use that may possibly be drawn from solar observations. — Addi- 
tional observations tending to investigate the symptoms of the variable emission of the 
light and heat of the sun ; with trials to set aside dai-keuing glasses, by transmitting 
the solar rays through liquids, and a few remarks to remove objections that might be 
made against some of the arguments contained in the former paper. 

1802. riiil. Trans., vol. xcii. — Observations on the two lately discovered celestial 
bodies, (Ceres and Pallas.) — Catalogue of 500 new nebula; and clusters of stars, with re- 
marks on the construction of the heavens. 

1803. riiU. Trans., vol. sciii. — Observations of the ti'ansit of Mercury over the disk of 
the sun ; to which is added an investigation of the causes which often prevent the 
proper action of mirrors. — Account of the changes that have happened during the last 
weuty-five years in the relative situation of double stars ; with an investigation of 
the cause to which they are owing. 

1804. Phil. Trans., vol. xciv. — Continuation of an account of the changes that have 
happened in the relative situation of double stars. 

1805. Phil. Trans., vol. xcv. — Experiments for ascertaining how far telescopes will 
enable us to determine very small angles, and to distinguish the real from the spurious 
diameters of celestial and terrestrial objects; with an application of the result of these 
experiments to a series of observations on the nature and magnitude of Mr. Harding's 
lately discovered star. — On the direction and velocity of the motion of the sun and solar 
system. — Observation on the singular figure of the planet Saturn. 

1806. Phil. Trans., vol. xcvi. — On the quantity and velocity of the solar motion. — 
Observations on the figure, the climate, and the atmosphere of Saturn and its ring. 

1807. Phil. Trans., vol. xcviii Experiments for investigating the cause of the colored 
concentric rings discovered bj Sir Isaac Newton between two object-glasses laid one 
upon another. — Observations on the nature of the new celestial body discovered by 
Dr. Olbers, and of the comet which was expected to appear last January, in its return 
from the sun. 

1808. Phil. Trans., vol. xcviii. — Observations of a comet, made with a view to investi- 
gate its magnitude and the nature of its illumination. To which is added an account 
of a new irregularity lately perceived in the apparent figure of the jilanet Saturn. 

1809. Phil. Trans., vol. xcis. — Continuation of experiments for investigating the 
cause of colored concentric rings and other appearances of a similar nature . 

1810. Phil. Trans., vol. c. — Supplement to the first and second part of the paper of 
experiments for investigating the cause of colored concentric rings between object- 
glasses, and other aj)pearances of a similar nature. 

1811. PhiJ. Trans., vol. ci. — Astronomical observations relating to the construction 
of the heavens, arranged for the purpose of a critical examination, the result of which 
appears to throw some new light upon the organization of the celestial bodies. 

1812. Pliil. Trans., vol. cii. — Observations of a comet, with remarks on the construc- 
tion of its difi'erent parts. — Observations of a second comet, with remarks on its con- 
struction. 

1814. Phil. T)'ans., vol. civ. — Astronomical observations relating to the sidereal part 
of the heavens, and its connection with the nebulous part ; arranged for the purpose of 
a critical examination. 

1815. Phil. Trans., vol. cv. — A series of observations of the satellites of the Georgian 
Planet, including a passage through the node of their orbits ; with an introductory ac- 
count of the telescopic apparatus that has been used on this occasion, and a final expo- 
sition of some calculated particulars deduced from the observations. 

1817. Pliil. Trans., vol. cvii. — Astronomical observations and experiments tending to 
investigate the local arrangement of the celestial bodies in space, and to determine the 
extent and condition of the Milky Way. 

1818. Phil, Trans., vol. cviii.— Astronomical observations and exiierimeuts selected 



204 IIERSCHEL. 

for tlif purpose of ascertainiug the relative distances of clusters of stars, and of inves- 
tigating how far the iwwer of telescopes maj' be expected to reach into space, when 
directed to ambiguous celestial objects. 

1822. Memoirs of the Astronomical tSocieiij of London. — On the positions of 145 new 
double stars. 

The chronological and detailed analysis of so many labors would 
involve numerous repetitions. A systeipatic order will be preferable, 
since it more distinct!}' fixes the eminent ijlace that Herschel will never 
cease to occupy in the small group of contemporary^ men of genius, while 
his name will reecho to the most distant posterity. The variety and 
splendor of Herschel's labors vie with their extent. The more we study 
them the more wo must admire them. It is with great men as it is with 
great movements in the arts : we cannot understand them without study- 
ing them from various points of view. 

Let us here again make a general reflection. The memoirs of Herschel 
are, for the greater part, pure and simple extracts from his inexhaustible 
journals of observations at Slough, accompanied by brief remarks. Such 
a table would not suit historical details. In these respects the author 
has left almost everything to his biographers to do for him. And they 
must im[)ose on themselves the task of assigning to the great astron- 
omer's predecessors the portion that legitimately belongs to them out 
of the mass of discoveries which the public, we must say, are in the 
habit of erroneously referring too exclusively .'.o Herschel. 

At one time I thought of adding a note to the analysis of each of the 
illustrious observer's memoirs, containing a detailed account of the 
improvements or corrections to which the progressive march of science 
has led. But in order to avoid an exorbitant length in this biog- 
raphy, I have been obliged to give up my project. In general, I shall 
content myself with pointing out what belongs to Herschel, referring to 
Arago's Treatise on Popular Astronomy for the historical details. The life 
of Herschel had the rare advantage of forming an epoch in an extensive 
branch of astronomy; it woidd require us almost to write a special 
treatise on astronomy to show thoroughly the importance of all the re- 
searches that are due to him. 

IMPKOVBMENTS IN THE MEANS OF OBSERVATION. 

The improvements that Herschel made in the construction and manage- 
ment of telescopes have contributed so directly to the discoveries with 
which that observer enriched astronomy that we cannot hesitate to 
bring them forward at once. 

I find the following passage in a memoir by Lalande, printed in 1783, 
and forming part of the preface to Volume VIII of the Ephemerides of the 
Celestial Motions : 

" Each time that Herschel undertakes to polish a mirror (of a tele- 
scope) he condemns himself to ten, or twelve, or even fourteen hours of 
constant work. He does not quit his workshop for a minute, not even to 



HEESCHEL. 205 

eat, but receives from the bands of bis sister that nourish id eut witliout 
which one coukl not undergo such prolonged fatigue. Nothing coukl 
induce Herschel to leave his work ; for, according to him, if he did so 
it would be to spoil it." 

The advantages that Herschel found in 1783, 1784, and 1785, in em- 
ploying telescopes of tv/enty feet and with large apertures, made him 
desire to construct one much larger still. The expense would be consid- 
erable ; the King provided for it. The work, begun about the close of 
1785, was finished in August, 1789. This instrument had an iron cylin- 
drical tube, thirty-nine feet four inches in length, and four feet ten 
inches in diameter. Such dimensions are enormous as compared with 
those of telescopes previously made. They will appear but small, how- 
ever, to persons who have heard the report of a pretended ball given in 
the Slough telescope. The propagators of this j^opular rumor must 
have confounded the astronomer Herschel with the brewer Mens, and a 
cylinder in which a man of the smallest stature could scarcely stand 
upright, with divers wooden vats, as large as a house, in wliich beer 
is made in London, 

Herschel's telescope, forty English feet* in length, allowed the reali- 
zation of an idea, the advantages of which would not be sufficiently 
appreciated if I did not here recall to mind some facts. 

In any telescope, whether refracting or reflecting, there are two prin- 
cipal parts : the part that forms the aerial images of the distant objects, 
and the small lens by the aid of which these images are magnified just 
as if they consisted of radiating matter. When the image is produced 
by means of a lenticular glass, the place it occupies will be found in the 
prolongation of the line that extends from the object to the center of 
the lens. The astronomer, furnished with an eye-piece and vtishing to 
examine that image, must necessarily place himself heyond the point 
where the rays that form it have crossed each other ; heyond, let us caref ally 
remark, means farther q^' from the object-glass. The observer's head, 
cannot then interfere with the formation or the brightness of the image, 
however small may be the distance from which he may have to study it. 
But it is no longer thus with the image formed by means of reflection. 
For the image is now i)laced between the object and the reflecting mir- 
ror, and when the astronomer approaches in order to examine it, he 
inevitably intercepts, if not the totality, at least a very considerable 
portion, of the luminous rays, which would otherwise have contributed 
to give it great distinctness. It will now be understood why, in optical 
instruments where the images of distant objects are formed by the re- 
flection of light, it has been necessary to carry the images, by the aid 
of a second reflection, out of the tube that contains and sustains the 

* Couformiog to general usage, and to Sir W. Herschel himself, we shall allude to 
this instrument as the forty-foot telescope, though M. Arago adheres to thirty-nine feet 
and drops the inches, probably because the Parisian foot is rather longer than the 
English. — Translator's Note. 



206 HERSCHEL. 

principal mirror. When tlie small mirror on the surface of which the 
second reflection is effected is plane and inclined at an angle of 45^ to 
the axis of the telescope ; when the image is reflected laterally through 
an opening made near the edge of the tube and furnished with an eye- 
piece ; when, in a word, the astronomer looks definitively in a direction 
perpendicular to the line described by the luminous rays coming from 
the object and falling on the center of the great mirror, then the tele- 
scope is called Neiotonian. But in the Gregorian telescope the image 
formed by the principal mirror falls on a second mirror, which is very 
small, slightly curved, and parallel to the first. The small mirror re- 
flects the first image and throws it beyond the large mirror, through an 
opening made in the middle of that mirror. 

Both in the one and in the other of these two telescopes, the small 
mirror interposed between the object and the great mirror forms relative 
to the latter a sort of screen which prevents its entire surface from con- 
tributing toward forming the image. The small mirror also, in regard 
to intensity, gives some trouble. 

Let us suppose, in order to clear up our ideas, that the material of 
which the two mirrors are made reflects only half of the incident light. 
In the course of the first reflection, the immense number of rays that the 
aperture of the telescope had received may be considered as reduced to 
half. Nor is the diminution less on the small mirror. Now, half of a half 
is a quarter. Therefore the instrument will send to the eye of the ob- 
server only a quarter of the incident light that its aperture had received 
If these two causes of diminished light did not exist in a refracting tele- 
scope, it would give, under parity of dimensions, four times more* light 
than a Newtonian or Gregorian telescope gives. 

Herschel did away with the small mirror in his large telescope by 
jflacing the large mirror obliquely in the tube which causes the images 
to be formed, not in the axis of the tube, but very near the circumfer- 
ence or edge of the outer mouth, as we may call it. The observer might 
therefore look at them directlj' merely by means of an eye-glass. A 
small portion of the astronomer's head, it is true, encroaches on the tube, 
forms a screen, and interrupts some incddent rays. Still, in a large tel- 
escope, this loss does not amount to half as much as it would inevitably 
do if the small mirror were there. 

Those telescopes in which the observer, standing at the anterior ex- 
tremity of the tube, looks directly into it, turning his back to the objects, 
were called by Herschel /row^^Jietc telescopes. In Volume LXXVI of the 
Philosophical Transactions, he says that the idea of this construction 
occurred to him in 177G, and that he then applied it unsuccessfully to a 
ten-foot telescope ; that during the year 1784 he again made a fruitless 
trial of it in a twenty -foot telescope. Yet I find that on the 7th of Sep- 
tember, 1784, he recurred to a front view in observing some uebulse and 
groups of stars. However discordant these dates may be, we cannot 

*It Tvould bo more correct to say lour times as much light. — Translator. 



HEESCHEL. 207 

without injustice neglect to remark that a front-view telescope was 
already described in 1732, in Volume VI of the collection entitled "Ma- 
chines and Inventions approved by the Academy of Sciences." The author 
of this innovation is Jacques Lemaire, who has been unduly confounded 
with the English Jesuit, Christopher Maire, assistant to Boscovitch, in 
measuring the meridian comprised between Rome and Rimini. Jacques 
Lemaire, having only telescopes of moderate dimensions in view, was 
obliged, in order not to sacrifice any of the light, to place the great mir- 
ror so obliquely that the image formed by its surftice should fall entirely 
outside the tube of the instrument. So great a degree of inclination 
would certainly distort the image. The front-view construction is admis- 
sible only in very large telescopes. 

I find in the Transactions for 1803 that, in solar observations, Herschel 
sometimes employed telescopes, the great mirror of which was made of 
glass. It was with a telescope of this kind, seven feet long, and six inches 
and jthree-tenths in diameter, that he observed the transit of Mercury 
on the 9th of ISTovember, 1802. 

Practical astronomers know how much the mounting of a telescope 
contributes to produce correct observations. The difficulty of a solid 
yet very movable mounting increases rapidly with the dimensions and 
weight of an instrument. We may then conceive that Herschel had to 
surmount many obstacles in mounting a telescope suitably of which the 
mirror alone weighed ujiward of 1,000 kilograms, (a ton.) But he 
solved this problem to his entire satisfaction by the aid of a combination 
of spars, pulleys, and ropes, of which a correct idea may be formed 
by referring to the wood-cut given in Arago's Treatise on Popular 
Astronomy, (Vol. I.) This apparatus, and the different stands that 
Herschel devised for telescopes of smaller dimensions, assign to that 
llustrious observer a distinguished place among the most ingenious 
mechanics of our age. 

The public in general — I may even say the greater j)art of astronomers 
— know not what was the eflect that the great forty-foot telescope had in 
the labors and discoveries of Herschel. Still, we are not less mistaken 
when we suppose that the observer of Slough always used this telescope 
than in imagining, with Baron von Zach, (see MonatUche Correspondenz^ 
January, 1802) that the colossal instrument was of no use at all; that it 
did not contribute to any new discovery f that it must be considered as a 
mere object of curiosity. These assertions are distinctly contradicted 
by HerschePs own words. In the volume of Philosophical Transactions 
for the year 1795 (p. 350) I read, for example: "On the 28th of August, 
1789, having directed my telescope (of forty feet) to the heavens, I dis- 
covered the sixth satellite of Saturn, and I perceived the spots on that 
planet better than I had been able to do before." (See also relative to 
this sixth satellite the Philosophical Transactions for 1790, p. 10.) In 
that same volume of 1790 (p. 11) I find: "The great light of my forty- 
foot telescope was so useful that on the 17th of Sei)tember, 1789, I re- 



208 HERSCHEL. 

marked the seventh satellite, then situated at its greatest vrcsteru 
elongation." 

The 10th of October, 1791, Herschel saw the ring of Saturn and the 
fourth satellite, looking in at the mirror of his forty-foot telescope, with 
his naked eye, without any kind of eye-piece. 

Let us acknowledge the true motives that i)revented Herschel from 
ofteuer using his forty-foot telescope. jSTotwith standing the excellence 
of the mechanism, the maneuvering of that instrument required the 
constant aid of two laborers, and that of another person charged 
with noting the time at the clock. Besides this, during nights when the 
variation of temperature was considerable, this telescope, on account of 
its great mass, was always behind the atmosphere in thermometric 
changes, giving rise to a difference of density in the air within and 
without the tube very injurious to the distinctness of the images. 

Herscliel found that in England there are not above a hundred hours 
in a year during which the heavens can be advantageously observed 
with a telescope of forty feet, furnished with a magnifying power of a 
thousand. This remark led the celebrated astronomer to the conclusion 
that to take a complete survey of the heavens with his large instrument, 
though each successive field should remain only for an instant under 
inspection, would not require less than eight hundred years. 

He explains very clearly the rare occurrence of the circumstances in 
which it is possible to make good use of a telescope of forty feet, and 
of very large aperture. 

A telescope does not magnify real objects only, but magnifies also 
the apparent irregularities arising from atmospheric refractions; now, 
all other things being equal, these irregularities of refraction must be 
so much the greater, so much the more frequent, as the stratum of 
air is thicker through w^hich the rays have passed in going to form the 
image. 

Astronomers expressed extreme surprise when, in 1782, they learned 
that Herschel had applied linear magnifying i)owers of a thousand, of 
twelve hundred, of two thousand two hundred, of two thousand six 
hundred, and even of six thousand times, to a reflecting telescope of 
seven feet in length. The Royal Societj' of London participated in this 
surprise, and officially" requested Herschel to give publicity to the 
means he had adopted for using such amounts of magnifying power 
in his telescopes. Such was the object of a memoir that he inserted 
in Volume LXXII of the Philosophical Transactions ; and it dissipated 
all doubts. No one will be surprised that magnifying powers, which it 
would seem ought to have shown the lunar mountains as the chain of 
Mont Blanc is seen from Magon, from Lyons, and even from Geneva, 
were not easily believed in. They did not know that Herschel had 
never used magnifying powers of three thousand and six thousand 
times, except in observing brilliant stars; they had not remembered 
that light reflected by planetary bodies is too feeble to continue distinct 



HERSCHEL. 209 

under the same degree of magnifying power as the direct light of the 
fixed stars does. 

Opticians had given up, more from theory than from careful experi- 
ments, attempting high magnifying powers, even for reflecting telescopes. 
They thought that the image of a small circle cannot be distinct, cannot 
be sharp at the edges, unless the pencil of rays coming from the object 
in nearly i^arallel lines, and which enters the eye after having passed 
through the eye-piece, be sufficiently broad. This being once granted, 
the inference followed that an image ceases to be well defined when it 
does not strike at least two of the nervous filaments of the retina with 
which that organ is supposed to be overspread. These gratuitous 
conditions, grafted on each other, vanished in presence of Herschel's 
observations. After having put himself on his guard against the eflects 
of difiraction — that is to say, against the scatternig that light undergoes 
when it passes the terminal angles of bodies — the illustrious astronomer 
proved, in 17SG, that objects can be seen well defined by means of pen- 
cils of light whose diameter does not equal five-tenths of a milliaieter. 

Herschel considered the almost unanimous opinion of the double-lens 
eye-piece being preferable to the single-leus eye-piece as a very injurious 
prejudice to science, since experience proved to him, notwithstanding all 
theoretic deductions, that, with equal magnifying powers, in reflecting 
telescopes, at least (and this restriction is of some consequence), the 
images were brighter and better defined with single than v/ith double 
eye-pieces. On one occasion this latter eye-piece could not show him 
the bands of Saturn, while by the aid of a single lens they were perfecitiy 
visible. Herschel said: "The double eye-piece must be left to amateurs, 
and to those who, for some particular object, require a large field of vis- 
ion." (Philosophical Transactions, 1782, i>p. 91 and 95.) 

It is not only relative to the comparative merit of single or double 
eye-pieces that Herschel diflers in opinion from opticians generally. 
He thinks, moreover, that he has proved, by decisive experiments, that 
concave eye-pieces (like that used by Galileo) surpass the convex eye- 
piece, both as regards clearness and definition. 

Herschel assigns the date of 177G to the experiments which he made 
to decide this question. (Philosophical Transactions, year 1815, p. 297.) 
Plano-concave and double-concave lenses produced similar eflects. In 
what did these lenses difler from the double-convex lenses? In one 
particular only: the latter received the rays reflected by the large mir- 
ror of the telescope after their union at the focus, whereas the concave 
lenses received the same rays before that union. When the observer 
made use of a convex lens, the rays that went to the back of the eye to 
form an image on the retina had previously crossed each other in the air, 
but no crossing of this kind took place when the observer used a con- 
cave lens. Holding the double advantage of this latter sort of lens 
over the other as quite proved, one would be inclined, like Herschel, 
14 s 



"210 HERSCHEL. 

to admit " that a certain mecLauical effect, iujurious to clearness and 
definition, would accompany the focal crossing of the rays of light."* 

This idea of the crossing of the rays suggested an experiment, 
the result of which deserves to be recorded. A telescope of ten 
English feet was directed toward an advertisement covered with very 
small printing, and placed at a sufficient distance. The convex lens 
of the eye-piece was carried, not by a tube, properly so called, but by 
four fine rigid wires, placed at right angles; this arrangement left 
the focus open in almost every direction. A concave mirror was then 
placed so that it threw a very condensed image of the sun laterally 
on the very spot where the image of the advertisement v/as formed. 
The solar rays, after having crossed each other, finding nothing 
on their route, went on and lost themselves in space. A screen, 
however, allowed the rays to be intercepted at will before they nnited. 
This done, having applied the eye to the eye-piece, and directed all his 
attention to the telescopic image of the advertisement, Herschel did 
not perceive that the taking away and then replacing the screen made 
the least change in the brightness or definition of the letters. It was, 
therefore, of no consequence, in this instance as well as in the other, 
whether the immense quantity of solar rays crossed each other at the 
very place where, in another direction, the rays united that formed the 
image of the letters. I have marked in Italics the words that especially 
show in what this curious experiment differs from the previous experi- 
ments, and yet does not entirely contradict them. In this instance, the 
rays were of different origin, those coming from the advertisement and 
those from the sun crossed each other, respectively, in an almost rectan- 
gular direction; while in the comparative examination of the stars with 
convex and with concave eye-pieces, the rays that seemed to have a mutual 
influence had a common origin, and crossed each other at very acute 
angles. There seems to be nothing, then, in the results at which we 
need to be much surprised. 

Herschel increased the catalogue, already so extensive, of the myste- 
ries of vision, when he explained in what manner we must endeavor to 
distinguish separately the two members of certain double stars very 
close to each other. He said, "If you wish to assure yourself that tj 
Corona) is a double star, first direct your telescope to a Geminorum, to 
£: Aquarii, to p- Draconis, to p Herculis, to a Piscium, to e Lyrog. Look 
at those stars for a long time, so as to acquire the habit of observing 
such objects; then pass on to c Ursai majoris, where the closeness of 
the two members is still greater. In a third essay select : Bootis, 

* Oa comparing the Cassegr.iin telescopes, with a small convex mirroi-, to the Gre- 
gorian telescopes, with a small concave mirror, Captain Katcr found that the former, 
in which the luminous rays do not cross each other before falling on the small mirror, 
possess, as to intensity, a marked advantage over the latter, in which this crossing 
talces place. 



HERSCHEL. 211 

(marked ii by Flamstced and i in Harris's maps,)* tlie star tliat pre- 
cedes a Orionis w of the same constellation, and you will then be pre- 
pared for the more difficult observation of tj Coroiiai. Indeed, rj Coronse 
is a sort of miniature of i Bootis, which may itself be considered as :x 
miniature of « Geminorum.''" (Philosophical Transactions, 1782, p. 100.) 

As soon as Piazzi, Gibers, and Harding had discovered three of the 
numerous telescopic })lanets now known, Herschel proposed to himself 
to determine their real magnitudes; but telescopes not having then been 
applied to the measurement of excessively small angles, it became requi- 
site, in order to avoid any illusion, to try some experiments adapted to 
giving a scale of the powers of those instruments. Of the labor of oar 
indefatigable astronomer in this line, I am going to give a condensed 
account. 

The author relates first, that in 1774 he endeavored to ascertain ex- 
Ijerimentally, with the naked eye, and at the distance of distinct vision, 
what angle a circle must subtend to be distinguished by its form from a 
square of similar dimensions. The angle was never smaller than 2' 17"; 
therefore, at its maximum it was about one-fourteenth of the augle sub- 
tended by the diameter of the moon. 

Herschel did not say of what nature the circles and squares of 
paper were that he used, nor on what background they were projected. 
It is an omission to be regretted, since in those phenomena the intensity 
of light must be an important feature. However it may have been, the 
scrupulous observer, not daring to extend to telescopic vision what 
he had discovered relative to vision with the naked eye, he undertook to 
do away with all doubt by direct observations. 

On examining some heads of pins, placed at a distance in the open 
air, with a three-foot telescope, Herschel could easily discern that those 
bodies were round when the subtended angles became, after being 
magnified, 2' 19'^ This is almost exactly the result obtained with the 
naked eye. 

When the globules were darker — when, instead of pins' heads, small 
globules of sealing wax were used — their spherical form did not begin to 
be distinctly visible till the moment when the subtended magnified 
angles — that is, the moment when the natural angle multiplied by the 
magnifying power — amounted to five minutes. 

In a subsequent series of experiments, some globules of silver, placed 
very far from the observer, allowed their globular form to be perceived, 
even when the magnified angle remained below two minutes. 

* In the selection of i Bootis as a test, Arago has taken the precantiou of fiiviug its 
corresponding denomination in other catalogues, and Bailey appends the following note, 
No. 20o2, to 44 Bootis : " In the British Catalogue this star is not denoted by any letter, 
hut Bayer calls it r, and on referring to the earliest 3iIS. catalogue in MSS. Vol. XXV, 
I find it is there so designated ; I have therefore restored the letter." (See Bailey's 
edition of Flamsteed's British Catalogue of Stars, 1835.) The distance between the 
two members of this double star is 3" .7, and position 23°.5. (See Bedford Cycle.) — 
Translator. 



212 HERSCHEL. 

Under equality of subtended angle, then, the telescopic vision witli 
strong magnifying powers showed itself superior to the naked-eye vision. 
This result is not unimportant. 

If we take notice of the magnifying powers used by Ilerschel in these 
laborious researches — powers that often exceeded live hundred times — it 
will appear to be established that the telescopes possessed by modern 
astronomers may serve to verify the round form of distant objects, the 
form of celestial bodies, even when the diameters of those bodies do not 
subtend naturally, to the naked eye, angles of above three- tenths of a 
second; and 500 multiplied by three-tenths of a second give 2' 30". 

Much still remained to be learned in regard to refracting telescopes ; 
even when they already served to reveal brilliant astronomical phenom- 
ena; the result was due rather to chance than to detinite theory. Their 
theory, as far as it depended on geometry and optics, had made rapid 
]3rogress. These two early phases of the problem leave but little more 
to be wished for; it is not so with a third phase, hitherto a good deal ne- 
glected, connected with physiology, and with the action of light on the 
nervous system. Therefore, we should search in vain in old treatises on 
optics and on astronomy for a strict and complete discussion on the 
comparative effect that the size and intensity of the images that the 
magnifying power and the aperture of a telescope may have, by night 
and by day, on the visibility of the faintest stars. This lacuna Herschel 
tried to fill up in 1799; such was the aim of the memoir entitled "On 
the Space-penetrating Power of Telescopes." 

This memoir contains excellent things; still it is far from exhausting 
the subject. The author, for instance, entirely overlooks the observa- 
tions made by day. I also find that the hypothetical part of the dis- 
cussion is not perhaps as distinctly separated from the rigorous part as 
it might be; that doubtful numbers, though given with a degree of 
precision down to the smallest decimals, do not contrast well as terms 
of comparison with those which, on the contrary, rest on observations 
bearing mathematical evidence of correctness. 

Whatever may be thought of these remarks, the astronomer or the 
physicist who would like again to undertake the question of visibility 
with telescopes will find some important facts in Herschel's memoir, 
and some ingenious observations, well adapted to serve them as guides. 

LABORS IN SIDEREAL ASTRONOMY. 

The curious phenomenon of a i)eriodical (;hange of intensity in certain 
stars very early excited the earnest attention of Herschel. The first me- 
moir by that illustrious observer, presented to the Eoyal Society of Lon- 
don, and inserted in the Philosophical Transactions, treats especially 
of the changes of intensity of the star o in the neck of the Whale. 

This memoir was dated from Biith, May, 1780. Eleven years afterward, 
in the month of December, 1791, Herschel communicated a second time 
to that celebrated English society the observations that he had jiiade by 



HERSCHEL. 213 

occasionally directing liis telescopes to this mysterious star. At botli 
tlioseepoclis the observer's attention was chiefly directed to the absolute 
values of the maxima and muiim'i of intensity. 

Tlie changeable star in the Whale was not the onlj' periodical star 
with which Herschel occupied himself. His observations of 1795 and of 
1796 i)roved that a Herculis also belongs to the category of variable 
stars, and that the time requisite for the accomplishment of all the 
changes of intensity, and for the star's return to any given state, was 
sixty days and a quarter. When Herschel obtained this result, about 
ten changeable stars were already known ; but they were ail either of 
very long or very short periods. The illustrious astronomer considered 
that by introducing between two groups that exhibited very short and 
very long loeriods a star of somewhat intermediate conditions — for in- 
stance, one requiring sixty days to accomplish all its variations of inten- 
sity — he had advanced the theory of these phenomena by an essential 
step ; the theory at least that attributes all to a movement of rotation 
which the stars may undergo round their centers. 

Sir William Herschel's catalogues of double stars offer a considerable 
number to which he ascribes a decided green or blue tint. In binary 
combinations, when the small star appears very blue or very green, the 
large one is usually yellow or red. It does not appear that the great 
astronomer took sufficient interest in this circumstance. I do not find, 
indeed, that the almost constant association of two complementary colors 
(of yellow and blue, or of red and green) ever led him to suspect thnt 
one of tliose colors might not have anything real in it, that it often might 
be a mere illusion, a mere result of contrast. It was only in 1825 that 
I showed that there are stars whose contrast really explains their appar- 
ent color ; but I have proved besides that blue is incontestably the color 
of certain insulated stars, or stars that have only white ones, or other 
blue ones, in their vicinity. Eed is the oidy color that the ancients ever 
distinguished from white in their catalogues. 

Herschel also endeavored to introduce numbers in the classification of 
stars as to magnitude; he has endeavored, by means of these, to 
show the comparative intensity of a star of th^ first magnitude with one 
of second, or one of third magnitude, &c. 

In one of the earliest of Herschel's memoirs, we find that the apparent 
sidereal diameters are proved to be for the greater part factitious, even 
Avhen the best telescopes are used. Diameters estimated by seconds — 
that is to say, reduced according to the magnifying power — diminish in 
certainty as the magnifying ])ower is increased. These results are of the 
greatest importance. 

In the course of his investigation of sidereal parallax, though without 
finding it, Herschel made an important discovery — that of the proper 
motion of our system. To show distinctly the direction of the motion of 
the solar system, not only was a displacement of the sidereal perspective 
required, but j)rofound mathematical knowledge, and a peculiar tact. 



214 HEESCHEL. 

This peculiar tact Herscliel possessed iu aii eminent degree. Moreover, 
the result deduced from the very small number of proper motions known 
at tlie beginning of 1783, has been found almost to agree with that found 
recently by our best astronomers, with the application of subtile 
analytical formulae, to a considerable number of exact observations. 

The proper motions of the stars have been known for more than a 
century, and even Fonteuelle used to say, in 1738, that the sun has pro- 
bably a similar motion. The idea of partly attributing the displace- 
ment of the stars to a motion of the sun had suggested itself to Bradley 
and to Mayer. Lambert especially had been very explicit on the subject. 
Until then, however, there were only conjectures and mere probabilities. 
Herschel i)assed these limits. He proved that the sun himself posi- 
tively moves, and that in this respect that immense and dazzling body 
must also be classed among the stars; that the apparently inextricable 
irregularities of numerous sidereal proper motions arise in great 
measure from the displacement of the solar system; that, in short, the 
point of space toward which we are annually advancing is situated in 
the constellation of Hercules. 

These are magnificent results. The discovery of the proper motion of 
our system will always be accounted among Herschel's highest claims to 
glory, even after the mention that my duty as historian has obliged me 
to nmke of the anterior conjectures of Fonteuelle, of Bradley, of Mayer, 
and of Lambert. 

By the side of this great discovery we should place another, that seems 
likely to be expanded in future. The results which it allows us to hope 
Ibrwill be of extreme importance. The discovery here alluded to was 
announced to the learned world iu 1803 ; it is that of the reciprocal de- 
pendence of several stars, connected the one with the other, as the 
several planets and their satellites of our system are with the sun. 

Let us to these immortal labors add the ingeuious ideas that we owe 
to Herschel on the nebuliB, on the constitution of the Milky Way, on the 
universe as a whole — ideas which almost by themselves constitute the 
actual history of the formation of the worlds — and we cannot have too 
deep a reverence for tluit powerful genius that notwithstanding the 
play of an ardent imagination scarcely ever erred. 

LABORS RELATIVE TO THE SOLAR SYSTEM. 

Herschel devoted much time to the sun, but only relative to its physical 
constitution. The observations that he made on this subject, and the 
consetpieuces that he deduced from them, equal in interest the most 
ingenious discoveries for which the sciences are indebted to him. 

In his important memoir in 1795, the great astronomer declares him- 
self convinced that the substance by the intermediation of which the 
sun shines cannot be either a liquid or an elastic liuid. It must be 
analogous to our clouds, and float in the transparent atmosphere of that 
body. The sun has, according to him, two atmospheres, endowed with 



HERSCHEL. 215 

motions quite independent of eacli other. An elastic fluid of an unknown 
nature is being" constantly formed on the dark surlace of the sun, and 
rising up, on account of its specific lightness, it forms the pores in the 
stratum of reflecting clouds; then, combining with other gases, it pro- 
duces the striiB in the region of luminous clouds. When the ascend- 
ing curi^ents are powerful, they give rise to the 7iuclei, to pemimbrm, and 
thQ facnlcc. If this explanation of the formation of solar spots is well 
founded, we must expect to find that the sun does not constantly emit 
equal quantities of light and heat, llecent observations have verified 
this conclusion. But large nuclei, large penumbraB, striae, faculas, do 
they indicate an abundant, luminous, and calorific emission, as Herschel 
supposed? That would be the result of his hypothesis on the exist- 
ence of very active ascending currents, but direct experience seems to 
contradict it. 

The following is the way in which a learned physicist, Sir David 
Brewster, appreciates this view of Herschei's: "It is not couceirable 
that luminous clouds, ceding to the lightest impulses and in a state of 
constant change, can bo the source of the sun's devouring flame and of 
the dazzling light which it emits; nor can Ave admit, besides, that the 
feeble barrier formed by planetary clouds would shelter the objects 
that it might cover from the destructive effects of the superior elements." 
Sir David Brewster imagines that the non-luminous rays of caloric, 
which form a constituent part of the solar light, are emitted by the dark 
nucleus of the sun; wdiile the visible colored rays proceed from the 
luminous matter by which the nucleus is surrounded, "From thence," 
he says, " proceeds the reason of light and heat always appearing in a 
state of combination ; the one emanation cannot be obtained without 
the other. With this hypothesis we could readily explain why it is 
hottest when there are most si)ots, because the heat of the nucleus would 
then reach us without having been weakened by tlie atmosphere that it 
usually has to traverse." But it is far from being an ascertained fact 
that we experience increased heat during the apparition of solar spots; 
the inverse phenomenon is more probably true. 

Herschel also studied the physical constitution of the moon. In 17S0, 
besought to measure the height of the mountains of our satellite. The 
conclusion that he drew from his observations was, that few of the lunar 
mountains exceed 800 meters, (or 2,000 feet.) More recent seleno- 
graphic observations give conclusions different from this. There is 
reason to remark, on this occasion, how much the result presented by 
Herschel differs from any tendency to the extraordinary or the gigantic, 
that has been so unjustly assigned as the characteristic of the illustrious 
astronomer. 

At the close of 1787, Herschel presented a memoir to the Eoyal So- 
ciety, the title of which must have made a strong impression on the popu- 
lar mind. The author therein relates that, on the 19th of April, 1787, 
he had observed in the non-illuminated part of the moon — that is, in 



216 HERSCHEL. 

tlie tlieu dark iiortion — tLree volcanoes in a state of ignition. Two of 
these volcanoes appeared to be on the decline, the other appeared to be ac- 
tive. Such was his conviction of the reality of the phenomenon, that the 
next morning he made the following record : '^ The volcano burns with 
more violence than last night." The real diameter of the volcanic light 
was 5,000 metei's, (10,400 English feet.) Its intensitj' appeared very 
superior to that of the nucleus of a comet then in api:)arition. He 
further added : " The objects situated near the crater are feebly illumin- 
ated by the light that emanates from it ;" and concludes thus : " In short, 
this eruption very much resembles the one I witnessed on the 4th of 
May, 1783." 

How liappens it, after such exact observations, that few astronomers 
now admit the existence of active volcanoes in the moon ? I will explain 
this singularity in a few words. 

The various parts of our satellite do not all equally reflect light. Here, 
it may depend on the form, elsewhere, on the nature of the materials. 
Those who have examined the moon with telescopes know how very 
considerable the difference arising from these two causes may be, how 
much brighter one point of the moon sometimes is than those around 
it. Now, it is quite evident that the relations of intensity between the 
faint parts and the brilliant ones must continue to exist, whatever be 
the origin of the illuminating light. In the portion of the lunar globe 
that is illuminated by the sun there are, everyone knows, some points, 
the brightness of which is extraordinary compared to those around them ; 
those same points, when they are seen in that i^ortion of the moon that is 
only lighted by the earth, or in the ash-colored part, will still predominate 
over the neighboring regions by their comparative intensity. Thus we 
may explain the observations of the Slough astronomer, without recur- 
ring to volcanoes. While the observer was studying in the non-illumin- 
ated portion of the moon the supposed volcano of the 20th of April, 
1787, his nine-foot telescope showed him in truth, by the aid of the 
secondary rays proceeding from the earth, even the darkest spots. 

Herschel did not recur to the discussion of the supposed actually 
burning lunar volcanoes until 1791, In the volume of the Philosophical 
Transactions for 1792, he relates that in directing a twenty-foot telescope, 
magnifying three hundred and sixty times, to the entirely eclipsed moon, 
on the 22d of October, 1790, there were visible, over the whole face of 
the satellite, about a hundred and fifty very luminous red points. The 
author declares that he will observe the greatest reserve relativ^e to the 
nature of all these points, their great brightness, and their remarkable 
color. 

Yet is not red the usual color of the moon when eclipsed, and when 
it has not entirely disappeared? Could the solar rays reaching our 
satellite by the effect of refraction, and after an absorption experienced 
in the lowest strata of the terrestrial atmosphere, receive any other tint"? 
Are there not in the moon, when freely illuminated, and opposite to the 



HERSCHEL. 217 

snn, from one to two liundred little i;)oints, remarkable by tbe briglituess 
of their light ? Would it be possible for these little jjoiuts not to be 
also distinguishable in the moon when it receives only the portion of 
solar light which is refracted and colored by our atmosphere '? 

Hersehel was more successful in his remarks on the absence of a lunar 
atmosphere. During the solar eclipse of the 5th September, 1793, the 
illustrious astronomer particularly directed his attention to the shape 
of the acute horn resulting from the intersection of the limbs of the moon 
and of the sun. He deduced from his observation that if toward the 
point of the horn there had been a deviation of only one second, occa- 
sioned by the refraction of the solar light in the lunar atmosphere, it 
would not have escaped him. 

He also made the planets the object of numerous researches. Mer- 
cury was the one to which he gave least attention ; he found its disk 
perfectly round on observing it during its projection — that is to say, in 
astronomical language, during its transit over the sun, on the 9th of 
November, 1802. He sought to determine the time of the rotation of 
Venus as early as 1777. He published two memoirs relative to Mars, 
the one in 1781, the other in 1781, and we owe to him the discovery of its 
being flattened at the poles. After the discovery of the small planets, 
Ceres, Pallas, Juno, and Vesta, by Piazzi, Olbers, and Harding, Her 
schel applied himself to measuring their angular diameters. He concluded 
from his researches that those four new bodies did not deserve the name 
of planets, and he proposed to call them asteroids. This epithet was 
subsequently adopted, though bitterly criticised hj a historian of the 
Eoyal Society of London, Dr. Thomson, who went so far as to suggest 
that the learned astronomer •' had wished to deprive the first observers 
of those bodies of all idea of rating themselves as high as himself in the 
scale of astronomical discoverers." I should require nothing further 
to annihilate such an imputation than to put it by the side of the fol- 
lowing passage, extracted from a memoir by this celebrated astronomer, 
published in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1805 : "The 
specific difference existing between planets and asteroids appears now, 
by the addition of a third individual of the latter species, to be more 
completely established, and that circumstance, in my opinion, has added 
more to the ornament of our system than the discovery of a new planet 
could have done." 

Although much has not resulted from Herschel's investigations in 
regard to the physical constitution of Jupiter, astronomy is indebted to 
him for several important results relative to the time of that planet's 
rotation. He also made numerous observations on the distances and 
comparative magnitude of its satellites. 

The compression of Saturn, the duration of its rotation, the physical 
constitution of this planet and that of its ring, were, on the part of 
Hersehel, the object of numerous researches ^vhich have much contributed 



218 HERSCHEL. 

to the progress of planetary astronomy. But on this subject two im- 
portant discoveries especially added new glory to his name. 

Of the live known satellites of Saturn at the close of the seventeenth 
century, Huygens had discovered the fourth ; Cassini the others. 

The tield seemed to be exhausted, when news from Slough announced 
that this was a mistake. 

On the 28th of August, 1789, the great forty-foot telesco})e revealed 
to Herschel a satellite still nearer to the ring than the other live already 
observed. According to the i)rinci[)les of the nomenclature previously 
adopted, the small body of the 2Sth August ought to have been called 
the first satellite of Saturn ; the numbers indicating the places of the other 
five would then have been each increased by a unity. But the fear of 
introducing confusion into science by these continual changes of denom- 
ination induced a preference for calling the new satellite the sixth. 

Thanks to the prodigious powers of the forty-foot telescope, a last 
satellite, the seventh, showed itself on the 17th of September, 1789, 
between the sixth and the ring. 

This seventh satellite is extremely faint. Herschel, however, snc- 
ceeded in seeing it whenever circumstances were very favorable, even 
by the aid of the twenty-foot telescope. 

The discovery of the planet Uranus, and the detection of its satellites, 
will always occupy one of the highest i)laces among those by which 
modei'u astrononiy is honored. 

On the loth of IMarch, 1781, between ten and eleven o'clock at night, 
while Herschel vras examining the small stars near II Geminorum with a 
seven-foot telescope, bearing a magnifying power of two hundred and 
twent^'-seveu times, one of these stars seemed to have an unusual 
diameter, and it was, therefore, thought to be a comet. It was under 
this denomination that it was discussed at the Eoyal Society of London. 
But the researches of Herschel and of Laplace showed later that the 
orbit of the new body was nearly circular, and Uranns was conse- 
quently elevated to the rank of a planet. 

The immense distance of Uranus, its small angular diameter, and the 
feebleness of its light, scarcely allowed the hope that, if that body had 
satellites, they could be perceived from the earth. Herschel was not 
a man to be deterred by such discouraging conjectures. Therefore, since 
powerful telescopes of the ordinary construction — that is to say, with 
two mirrors conjugated — had not enabled him to discover anything, he 
substituted, in the beginning of January, 1787, />•on^r/e^^ telescopes — 
that is, telescopes throwing much more light on the objects, the small- 
mirror being then suppressed, and with it one of the causes of loss of 
light is got rid of. 

By this means, with patient labor and observations requiring a rare 
perseverance, Herschel made (from the 11th of January, 1787, to the 
28th of February, 1791) the discovery of the six satellites of his planet, 
and thus completed the system of worlds that belongs entirely to him- 
self. 



HEESCHEL. 219 

There are several of Herschel's memoirs on comets. lu aualyzing 
tlicui we sliall see that this acute observer could not touch anything 
without making farther discoveries in regard to it. 

He applied some of his line instruments to the study of the physical 
constitution of a comet discovered by Mr. Pigott, on the 28th September, 
1807. The nucleus wasround and well-determined. Some measures taken 
on the day when the nucleus subtended only an angle of a single second 
gave as its real diameter j^ of the diameter of the earth. 

Herschel saw no phase at an epoch when only ^-^ of the nucleus could 
be illuminated by the sun. The nucleus then must shine by its own 
hght. 

This is a legitimate inference in the opinion of every one who will 
allow, on the one hand, that the nucleus is a solid body, and on the other, 
that it would have been possible to observe a phase of /^ on a disk whose 
apparent total diameter did not exceed one or two seconds of a degree. 

Very small stars seemed to grow much paler when they were seen 
through the coma or through the tail of the comet. 

This faintuess may have only been apparent, and might arise from 
the circumstance of the stars being then projected on a luminous back- 
ground. Such is, indeed, the explanation adopted by Herschel. A 
gaseous medium, capable of reflecting sufficient solar light to efface that 
of some stars, would appear to him to i)ossess in each stratum a sensi- 
ble quantity of matter, and to be, for that reason, a cause of real dimi- 
nution of the light transmitted, though nothing reveals the existence of 
such a cause. 

This argument, offered by Herschel in favor of the system which, 
transforms comets into self-luminous bodies, has not, as we nuiy percek^e, 
much force. I might venture to say as much of several other remarks 
by this great observer. He tells us that the comet was distinctly visible 
in the telescope on the 21st of February, 1808 f now, on that day, its dis- 
tance from the sun amounted to 2,7 times the mean radius of the terres- 
trial orbit; its distance from the observer was 2.9 : " What probability 
would there be that rays going to such distances, from the sun to the 
comet, could, after their reflection, be seen by an eye nearly three times 
more distant from the comet than from the smi I " 

It is only numerical determinations that could give value to such an 
argument. By satisfying himself with vague reasoning, Herschel did 
not even perceive that he was committing a great mistake by making 
the comet's distance from the observer api)ear to be an element of visi- 
bility. If the comet be self-luminous, its intrinsic splendor (its bright- 
ness for unity of surface) will remain constant at any distance, as long 
as the subtended angle remains sensible. If the body shines by bor- 
rowed light, its brightness will vary only according to its change of dis- 
tance from the sun ; nor will the distance of the observer occasion any 
change in the visibility ; always, let it be understood, with the restriction 
that the apparent diameter shall not be diminished below certain limits. 



220 HERSCHEL. 

Herscliel fiiiisbed liis observatious of a comet tliat was visible in Janu- 
ary, 1807, with tbe following remark: 

" Of the sixteen telescopic comets that I have examined, fonrtcen bad 
no solid body visible at their center; the other two exhibited a central 
light, very ill-dehued, that might be termed a nucleus, but a light that 
certainly could not deserve the name of a disk." 

The beautiful comet of 1811 became the object of .his conscientious 
labor. With large telescopes he saw, in the midst of the gaseous 
head, a reddish body of planetary appearance, which bore strong 
magnifying powers, and showed no sign of phase. Hence Herschel 
concluded that it was self-luminous. Yet if we reflect that the planetary 
body under consideration was not a second in diameter, the absence of 
a phase does not appear a conclusive argument. 

The light of the head had a bluish-green tint. Was this a real tint, 
or did the central reddish body, only through contrast, cause the sur- 
rounding vapor to appear colored 1 Herschel did not examine the 
question from this point of view. 

The head of the comet appeared to be enveloped at a certain distance, 
on the side toward the sun, by a brilliant narrow zone, embracing 
about a semicircle, and of a yellowish color. From the two extremities 
of the semicircle there arose, toward the region away from the sun, two 
long luminous streaks w^hich limited the tail. Between the brilliant 
circular semi-ring and the head, the cometary substance seemed dark, 
very rare, and very diaphanous. 

The luminous semi-ring always presented similar appearances in all the 
positions of the comet ; it was not then ijossible to attribute to it really the 
annular form — the shape of Saturn's ring, for example. Herschel sought 
whether a spherical semi-envelope of luminous matter, and yet diapha- 
nous, would not lead to a natural explanation of the phenomenon. lu 
this hypothesis, the visual rays, which on the Gtli of October, 1811, trav- 
ersed a thickness of matter of about o99,(IOO kilometers, (218,000 English 
miles,) while the visual rays near the head of the comet did not meet above 
80,000 kilometers (50,000 miles) of matter. As the brightness must be 
proportional to the quantity of matter traversed, there could not fail to 
be an a})pearance around the comet of a semi-ring five times more lu- 
minous than the central regions. This semi-ring, then, was an effect of 
projection, and it has revealed a circumstance to us truly remarkable in 
the physical constitution of comets. 

The two luminous streaks that outlined the tail at its two limits may 
be explained in a similar manner; the tail was not Hat, as it appeared 
to be; it had the form of a conoid, with its sides of a certain thickness. 
The visual lines which traversed those sides almost tangentiaily evi- 
dently met much more matter than the visual lines passing across. 
This maximum of matter could not fail of being represented by a max- 
inuim of light. 

The luminous semi-ring appeared one day to be suspended in the 



HEESCHEL. 221 

diaphanous atmosphere by which the head of the comet was surrounded, 
at a distance of 518,000 kilometers (322,000 English miles) from the 
nucleus. 

This distance was not constant. The matter of the semi-annular en- 
velope seemed even to be precipitated by slow degrees through the 
diaphanous atmosphere; finallj'^ it reached the nucleus; the earlier ap- 
pearances vanished ; the comet was reduced to a globular nebula. 

During its period of dissolution, the ring ax)peared sometimes to have 
several branches. 

The luminous shreds of the tail seemed to undergo rapid, frequent, 
and considerable variations of length. Herschel discerned symptoms of 
a movement of rotation both in the comet and in its tail. This rota- 
tory motion carried unequal shreds from the center toward the border, 
and reciprocally. On looking from time to time at the same region of 
the tail — at the border, for example — sensible changes of length must 
have been perceptible, which, however, had no real existence. Herschel 
thought, as I have already said, that the beautiful comet of 1811 and 
that of 1807 were self-luminous. The second comet of 1811 appeared to 
him to shine only by borrowed light. It must be acknowledged that 
these conjectures did not rest on anything demonstrative. 

In attentively comparing the comet of 1807 with the beautiful comet 
of 1811, relative to the changes of distance from the sun, and the modi- 
fications resulting thence, Herschel put it beyond doubt that these modi- 
fications have something individual in them, something relative to a 
special state of the nebulous matter. On one celestial body the changes 
of distance produce an enormous effect ; on another the modifications 
are insignificant. 

OPTICAL LABORS. 

I shall say very little as to the discoveries that Herschel made in phys- 
ics, since every one is iamiliar with them. They are to be found in all 
elementary works, and are given in verbal instruction ; they must be con- 
sidered as the starting-point of a multitude of important labors with 
which the sciences have been enriched during later years. 

The chief of these is that of the dark radiating heat which is found 
mixed with light. 

In studying the phenomena, not with the eye, as Newton did, but 
with a thermometer, Herschel discovered that the solar spectrum is pro- 
longed on the red side far beyond the visible limits. The thermometer 
sometimes rose higher in the dark region than in the midst of brilliant 
zones. The light of the sun, then, contains, besides the colored rays so 
well characterized by Newton, invisible rays, still less refrangible 
than the red, and whose warming power is very considerable. A world 
of discoveries has arisen from this fundamental (act. 

Tiie dark ray emanating from terrestrial objects more or less heated 
also became the subject of Herschel's investigations. His work contained 



222 HERSOHEL. 

the germs of a large number of beautiful experiments more fully devel- 
oped in our own day. 

By successively placing the thermometer in all parts of the solar 
spectrum, he determined the illuminating powers of the various prismatic 
rays. The general result of these experiuients may be thus enunciated : 
The illuminating power of the red rays is not very great; that of the 
orange rays surpasses it, and is in its turn surpassed by the power of 
the yellow rays. The maximum power of illumination is found between 
the brighest yellow and the palest green. The yellow and the green 
possess this power equally. A like assimilation may be laid down be- 
tween the blue and the red. Finally, the power of illumination in the 
indigo rays, and above all in the violet, is very weak. 

The memoirs of Herschel on Newton's colored rings, though con- 
taining a multitude of exact experiments, have not contributed much 
to advance the theory of those curious i)henomena. I have learned, 
from good authority, that he himself held the same opinion. He 
said that it was the only occasion on which he had reason to regret 
having, according to his constant custom, published his labors immedi- 
ately as fast as they were performed. 



LIFE AND LABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS. 



[from the archives des sciences physiques et naturelles, geneva.] 



Translated for the Smithsonian Ftcport. ' 

Tlie processes of scieutific investigation have never been reduced to 
definite rules, and frequently methods arc adopted of the most opposite 
character. Sometimes, impelled by the impulse of his genius to achieve 
immediate distinction the scientist discards beaten tracks and attempts 
to exj)lore new regions by assays almost without a definite plan in a 
predetermined direction, and although the resujts of his trials in most cases 
are of a negative character, yet he occasionally lights upon facts rich in 
the indications of scientific principles. Sometimes, less a lover of nov- 
elty than of precision of knowledge, he prefers the critical examina- 
tion of some region i)reviously traversed by others in order to give it 
that minute investigation required in every part of the douiain of 
modern science, and thus unostentatiously contributes essentially^ to 
the advance of science. These two methods are both fruitful and 
should not bo entirely separated. The first, perhaps the more brilliant, 
requires an undaunted spirit, a creative genius. The second, uiore 
modest, but also more sure, requires extensive erudition, a critical mind, 
and great talent for experimentation. 

The scientific career we are about to portray belonged essentially to 
the latter class. The i)art of Magnus was less to discover new phe- 
nomena than to reinvestigate and render more definite those already 
known. Such was the precision of his researches that he was fre- 
quently enabled to draw new truths from subjects apparently exhausted, 
and, in some cases, even to transform entirely, propositions generally 
admitted as truths. He valued little bold conceptions and even inge- 
nious hypotheses when not supported by rigorous demonstration, while 
a fact apparently the most insignificant he would frequently regard as 
of the highest importance, provided it was fully established. Exact and 
conscientious in the extreme, he concentrated his efibrts upon the 
minutiae of his investigations, removing with the greatest care every 
cause of uncertainty. Of cautious and candid judgment he was not 
ready to find his scientific colleagues in error 5 and when a disagreement 
occurred between his results and those of another, his first impulse was 
to look for a mistake in his own experiments. Essentially modest, 
loving science for its own sake, and forgetful of self, he did not shrink 
from the most arduous labors, from investigations apparently the most 
unremunerative, and in this way, without ostentation, almost uncon- 
siously he gained a solid and lasting reputation. 



224 LIFE AMD LABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS. 

Henri Gustave Magnus was born in Berlin, May 2, 1802. He belonged 
to one of the most honorable families of that city. From bis earliest 
infancy be mauifested peculiar aptitude for tbe exact sciences and pre- 
ferred study to the ordinary amusements of cbildbood. He passed 
tbrougb all tbe grades at tbe academy of Berlin, and received tbe degree 
of Doctor in 1827. His first researches were made in tbe laboratory of 
Mitscberlicb ; be next pursued bis studies under Berzelius at Stockholm, 
where be passed the year 1828. Thence be went to Paris where, in tbe 
laboratory of Gay Lussac he prepared himself for tbe interesting 
experiments which he undertook a few years later. Eeturuing to his 
native city be soon obtained a reputation as an instructor, Avhich be 
ever after sustained with great distinction and unflagging zeal. He 
entered upon this career as private tutor ; was nominated in 1831 extra 
professor, and in 1815 ordinary professor of physics and technology in 
tbe university of which be became one of the brightest ornaments. He 
exercised an important influence in developing a taste for the study of 
physics, as well as in imparting a knowledge of its principles in their 
most varied applications. For the illustration of tbe subjects of bis 
lectures he formed the physical cabinet of tbe university, which was 
enriched after his death by the valuable collection of apparatus belong- 
ing to himself. 

His first labors were devoted to physical chemistry. In 1825 he con- 
tributed to this branch of science, through tbe Annales de Foggcndorff, an 
interesting memoir, on tbe property which iron, cobalt, and nickel, finely 
divided by a reduction of their oxides in a current of hydrogen, possess 
of taking fire spontaneously in tbe air at tbe ordinary temperature. He 
did not confine bimself to tbe mere discovery of the fact, and to show- 
ing that it w\as an especial attribute of these three metals, but explained 
it on the principle of De Saussure, of tbe absorption of gas by porous 
substances, such as charcoal, and by showing that substances of this 
character, in consequence of their porosity, condense oxygen and enter 
into combination with it so energetically as to produce incandescence. 

In 1828 he discovered tbe compound which has been called, in com- 
pliment to him, the green salt of Magnus. This is formed of the ele- 
ments of chloride of platinum and of ammonia, and was the first of a 
series of combinations of tbe same substances. In an investigation in 
common with Ammermiiller, he discovered tbe periodic acid, also the 
ethionic and istheouic acids, analyzed a large number of minerals, and 
observed the remarkable pro])erty which certain crystallized silicates 
possess, of losing by fusion a considerable portion of their weight. 

We cannot stop to enumerate all tbe investigations of Magnus in this 
branch of science ; we must hasten on to bis numerous and beautiful 
researches in physics, which constitute bis true claims to renown. These 
were especially devoted to molecular and calorific phenomena. His first 
work on physics, entitled "Researches on Capillarity," is rather a study 
of tbe flow of different gases, through minute cracks in glass vessels. 



LIFE AND LABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS. 225 

He throws new ]i^c:lit on this subject, and shows the remarkable fact that 
there is an immense difference in therapiditj^ of the escape of hydrogen 
in comparison with other gases. 

He published later some interesting observations npon evaporation in 
capillary tubes, which he found most rapid in the narrowest tubes, and 
upon the boiling of mixed liquids. In regard to the latter, he showed, 
as theory indicated, that this boiling takes place at the temperature when 
the sum of the tension of the mixed vapors is just sufficient to over- 
come the pressure of the atmosphere, consequently at a temperature a 
little lower than the boiling-point of the more volatile liquid. He ob- 
served that this condition is never realized when the more volatile liquid 
is placed below the other; the mixture in that case becomes overheated 
and commences to boil suddenly with a violent explosion. 

It was also at this period of his life, in the commencement of his 
career as professor, that Magnus made his interesting experiments upon 
the gases contained in the blood. This subject has since been further 
developed, but the honor will always be his, of having materially en- 
larged the views entertained in regard to one of the most important 
functions of animal life. The theory of respiration most generally re- 
ceived before his day, wasthat of Lavoisier, according to which, thecom- 
bustiou of the blood takes place at the moment when it comes in con- 
tact with the air in the lungs. This theory was, in fact, the only one 
then possible, since the presence of gas in the blood, emitted by expira- 
tion, had not been shown. Magnus found in arterial as well as venous blood 
considerable quantities of oxygen, nitrogen, and carbonic acid. The sum 
of these three gases was, in his experiments, equal to the eighth part of 
the entire volume of gas. He found that in arterial blood the oxygen 
w^as from one-third to one-half; of the carbonic acid in the venous blood 
only one-fourth to one-fifth. From this he concluded that the oxygen 
does not combine immediately in the lungs with the carbon of the blood, 
but absorbed by the arterial blood it is carried into the capillar}- vessels, 
where it is employed in the combustion of the debris of the organ- 
isms. Carbonic acid is in this way produced, which is also absorbed 
and transported by the venous blood, and is breathed out at once on 
reaching the lungs. This theory is now generally adopted. 

The researches of Magnus, which perhaps more than any other tested 
his talents for experimentation, are those upon the coefficient of the 
dilatation of gases. It had been generally admitted that this coefficient 
was the same for all gases, and that between 0° and 100° C. their 
volume increased for each degree 0.375 of their volume at 0. This 
law of Gay Lussac, confirmed by Dulong and Petit, had passed into 
the domain of undisputed facts, when, four years after the publica- 
tion of the works of the French savant, a Swede, Eudberg, revived the 
investigation of this question, and found as value of the coefficient of 
the dilatation of air 0.3G4G. It was important that a quantity so con- 
tinually applied in physical science should be positively determined, 
15 s 



226 LIFE AND LABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS. 

and simultimeously two of the most skillful experimenters of the time 
took up this important subject. Magnus communicated the results of 
his experiments to the Academy of Berlin November 25, 1841, and a 
few days after, December 13, 1841, M. Eegnault gave to the scientific 
Academy of Paris his researches upon the same subject. These me- 
moirs are master-pieces. Magnus says, in the opening of his: '•! 
decided to take up the study of this important question, knowing well 
that I should gain very little, if any, distinction by the work, however 
long or laborious it might be, since its object was only to confirm one 
of two figures already known." This, the dictate of his excessive mod- 
esty, is the only error of his memoir. Contrary to his opinion, the work 
was one of his strongest claims to renown. 

Eepeating first the experiments of Gay Lussac, which consist in ob- 
serving the dilatation under constant pressure of a certain quantity of 
air contained in a glass globe, by means of a small globule of mercurv, 
which rises and falls according to the dilatation in the slender neck of 
this globe, Magnus soon discovered that there were several causes for 
uncertainty, but found as mean result of his experiments the figure 
0.3G9 iuvstead of 0.375, probably on account of the greater dryness of the 
air. He then tested Rudberg's method. His apparatus consisted of a 
tubular reservoir of glass, communicating with a manometrical appa- 
ratus, and inclosed in a triple envelope of sheet iron, in the interior of 
which any constant temperature desired could be maintained. By in- 
crease of pressure the volume at 100° was reduced to what it had been 
at 0°. A very simple equation resulting from the law of Mariotte gave 
the coefiicient of dilatation with the difference of pressure observed. 
The value of the coefiQcient thus obtainedfortheatmosphere wasa very 
little greater than that found by Rudberg. !N"ot content with this im- 
portant numeral, IMagnus experimented with different gases, and found 
for hydrogen a coefijcient of dilatation less than that of the atmosphere, 
viz, 0.305(550 ; for carbonic and sulphurous acids, on the contrary, coeffi- 
cients of dilatation greater than that of the atmosphere; for the former, 
0.3C90S7 ; for the latter, 0.3S5G18. The law of Gay Lussac was but an 
jipproximation to the truth. Magnus proved that gases did not dilate 
equally, as had been until then generally admitted. 

M. Eegnault had made four series of experiments. The first two, in 
which he changed at the same time both the volume and the pressure, 
gave him two coefflcients for the atmosphere, both equally sure, 0.3GG23 
and 0.3GG33. The third and fourth gave, with the volume constant and 
the pressure varied, 0.3GG70 and 0.3GG50 as coefficients of dilatation for 
the atmosphere. While operating on different gases, he had arrived at 
results very nearly identical with those of Magnus. The two experi- 
menters concluded .to replace the old coefficient 0.375 by the figure 
0.3GG for the atmosphere, and decided that the different gases dilated 
unequally. 

The cause of the difference between the figure found by Gay Lussac. 



LIFE AND LABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS. 227 

on one liand, and by liudberg', Magnus, and M. Eegnault, on the other, 
was that upon the interior surface of the vessel in which the dihitation 
of the air was observed, there was a stratum of humidity whicli passed 
into the gaseous condition when the reservoir was heated to 100°, and 
thus increased the dilatation. It was evident that an effect of the same 
kind might be i)rodnced by the condensation of the gas itself, on the 
surface of the vessel. To jirove the fact Magnus ascertained two 
measures of the coefficient of dilatation of a single and the same gas, 
sulphurous acid, increasing greatly in one case the extent of glass sur- 
facein jH-oportion to the volume of gas coming in contact with it. This was 
effected, by introducing a number of globules of glass into the reservoir 
containing the sulphurous acid. He obtained as coefficient of dilatation 
a value greater than b^^ the ordinary i^rocess without the globules of 
glass, and while confirmiug the fact that gases condense at low tem- 
peratures upon solid bodies, gave at the same time the measure of this 
condensation. 

After his researches upon the dilatation of the air at high temperatures 
and upon the tension of steam, finding himself again in competition 
with M. Regnault, Magnus left the field to be explored by the illustrious 
French savant, with far greater resources than he could command, re- 
suming, however, at intervals, his favorite study of gases and vapors. 
In 1860 and ISGl he published a very important article upon the trans- 
mission of heat through gases in the double aspect of conductibility 
and radiation. Placing a thermometer in a. glass vase heated moder- 
ately and filled successively with different gases or vapors, he found 
that the thermometer was heated differently in different gases, and 
indicated a lower temperature in any one of them than in a vacuum. 
He concluded from this that gases transmit very little if any heat by 
conductibility, and absorb a considerable portion of radiant heat. Only 
one gas, hydrogen, he declared an exception to this rule, atleastasregards 
the first point; the thermometer rises higher in this gas than in a 
vacuum, notwithstanding, as he also observed, that it absorbs radiant 
heat in the same proportion as the atmosphere, azote, and oxygen. 
The thermometer rose higher when the gas was more dense, which 
seemed to indicate that gases conduct heat like the metals. This was 
one proof more in confirmation of the theory, making a metal of hydro- 
gen, which has since been fully established by the beautiful experiments 
of Graham. This conductibility of hydrogen is well exhibited when it 
is surrounded by a non-conducting substance such as eider down or 
cotton, so that the currents produced in it may not be disturbed. 

As we have said, all gases, without exception, absorb radiant heat, and 
in greater proportion as the pressure is greater. Those which absorb the 
least are the atmosphere, nitrogen, and oxygen, and, almost to the same 
degree, hydrogen. Among colorless gases, ammonia first, then olefiant 
gas, arrests most readily the radiations of heat. The difference in the 
transmission of radiant heat tlu'ough different gases varies with the 



228 LIFE AND LABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS. 

sources of beat employed. The most marked differences are obtained 
from a source of black beat at 100° C. As to the vapor of water con- 
tained in the air Magnus observed that it was appreciably absorbent 
only when in the condition of a transparent gas. This subject gave rise 
to a long controversy between Magnus and Mr. Tyndall. 

The English savant had undertaken the study of this interesting sub- 
ject and gave the results of his investigations in a discourse before the 
Eoyal Society only a few days before Magnus communicated his to the 
Academy of Berlin. The two savants agreed upon all points, except 
upon the transmission of radiant heat through dam j) air. Contrary to 
Magnus, Mr. Tyndal found that the vapor of water contained in the air 
absorbed radiant heat forty, fifty, and even sixty times more than the 
air itself; and yet this result was obtained, not with air absolutely 
saturated with moisture, but with ordinary open air or with that of his 
laboratory. The want of accord between the two experimenters in this 
particular remains, in spite of repeated efforts to discover the cause in their 
different modes of operating. Magnus accounted for the enormous ab- 
sorption obtained by Mr. Tyndidl by the condensation of the vapor upon 
the interior surface of the tube used, or upon the plates of rock-salt 
which closed the extremity of this tube. The English savant repeated 
his experiments with the greatest care, but always with the same I'csult. 
The error, on whichever side it exists, remains undiscovered, and some 
idea may be formed of the difficulty of this qucstiou when two such 
skillful experimenters fail to solve it. 

Magnus made other interesting experiments upon radiant heat, espe- 
cially upon the variation in the emissive power of a body with the 
degree of polish of its surface, and he vshowed that the increase of this 
emissive power in an unpolished body is greater, not because the super- 
ficial stratum is less dense, but on account of its discontinuity. He 
also observed that the increase in the emissive power of platina was 
confined to the radiations of red or nearly red heat. He discovered, also, 
the property which sylviue or chloride of potassium possesses, in com- 
mon with rock-salt, of being almost entirely diathermal and of trans- 
mitting equally heat jH^oceeding from very different sources. It was 
interesting to find a new analogy between these two substances, which 
in many of their properties, as well as in their chemical composition, 
are completely identical. In respect to the remarkable diathermality of 
rock-salt, we shall see how entirely he modified the theory of JMelloui, 
which had been generally adopted. 

Shortly before his death Magnus published a memoir upon the emis- 
sion, absorption, and reflection of heat by bodies at low temperatures. 
This article, given entire in the Archives, shows that different bodies 
emit, absorb, and reflect, at temperatures in the neighborhood of 100° 
C, very different calorific radiations; so that were our eyes capable of 
perceiving the radiations of black heat, the bodies ex])osed to them 
would appeal' to us of very different colors, as is the case when they are 



LIFE AND LABORS OF HENRY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS. 229 

submitted to luminous radiations. According to Magnus, rock-salt is 
not in the least atliermocbroic, that is to say, diathermal, under any 
kind of heat; it is, on the contrary, monothermal, emitting and absorbing 
only a very limited number of simple radiations; just as incandescent 
sodium emits only a few of the yellow radiations and excludes all other 
kinds of light. This result, certainly very curious and unexpected, 
should be investigated in regard to other bodies. 

Magnus, as we have said, especially applied himself to the study of 
heat, but he enriched other branches of science with numerous observa- 
tions, all of which bear the imprint of his acute and accurate under- 
standing. We will say a few words only upon his researches in thermo- 
electricity. Taking up the experiments of M. Becquerel, who attempted 
to show that in an homogeneous circuit heated at one point, electricity is 
produced because the heat emitted on both sides of this point differs in 
quantity, Magnus demonstrated that the production of electricity in 
the connected wire should not be attributed to the unequal transmission 
of heat in the two portions of this wire, but to an alteration in its molec- 
ular condition. After having confirmed the fact announced by Matteucci, 
that there is no production of electricity when two masses of mercury 
are brought in contact at different temperatures, he showed that an 
abrupt change of diameter, either in a column of mercury, or in a per- 
fectly homogeneous wire, does not necessarily give rise to a current of 
electricity, but on the other hand, electricity may always be excited by 
heating the point of contact of two heterogeneous portions of a single 
wire, for instance, when one part is hammer hardened, and the other 
annealed. 

This sketch would be incomplete without some notice of the numerous 
articles published by Magnus in the memoirs and monthly issues of the 
Academy of Berlin, and also in the Annales de Poggendorff^ many of 
which have reappeared in the "Archives,'^ either translated or reviewed. 
We must, however, confine ourselves to a mere mention of his researches 
upon the movement of liquids ; upon the deviation in the rotary motion 
of projectiles ; upon the temperature of the earth at great depths ; upon 
the tension of mixed vapors ; upon the electrolysis ; upon the action of 
the brace of magnets, and upon the diffraction of light in a vacuum. Such 
were some of the various subjects which engaged his attention and which 
he pursued with unceasing accuracy and care. 

But it was not only by his numerous and laborious investigations that 
Magnus advanced the cause of science ; he filled the office of Professor; 
was, in fact, the leader of the university. He loved youth, and knew 
how to make himself beloved while imparting a taste for that science to 
which he had consecrated his life ; and we m ay, without exaggeration , say 
that he exercised an important influence upon thQ scientific generation 
which has succeeded him. He received many testimonials of the confi- 
dence he inspired in the young men of the university ; among others, we 
may mention, that in the troubles of 1848, to him, a man preeminently 



230 lifp: and labors of henry gustavus magnus. 

devoted to order and duty, was confided the command of the university 
regiment. 

His lectures, continued without interruption until near the close of 
the long and painful illness which ended his life, always attracted a large 
and attentive audience, which he captivated by the eloquence of his dic- 
tion and the solidity of his instruction. A large number of young 
jphysicists frequented his laboratory-, and learned of him judgment and 
jmethod in the application of scientific principles. He also delighted to 
assemble them weekly at his house, and in familiar intercourse call iTpou 
each for some scientific contribution, however small, to be submitted to 
the criticism of his colleagues ; thus training them in exposition and dis- 
cussion. Several of his pupils have since become distinguished savants, 
and all remember, with lively gratitude, his Ivind, welcome, and generous 
hospitality in the laboratory of the Kupfergrahen. 

Magnus preserved to the cud his activity and indefatigable zeal for 
science. At the close of the summer of 18G9 he was first attacked by 
the malady of which he died a few montlis later. He endured Avith for- 
titude great suffering, continued his work and his lectures, and aban- 
doned his post only when strength absolutely fiiiled him. His death 
occurred on the 4th of April, 1S70. His decease excited universal regret, 
and his name will ever retain a high and honorable place in the history 
of science. 



SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF PKOF. CHESTER DEWEY, D. D., LL. D., 

Laic Professor of cliemistry and natural hisfori/ in the Unircrsitij of Rochester, and for many 
years a correspondent of the ><mithsunian Institution. 



By M.\rtin B. Andeusox, LL. D., President of the Unirersity of Rochester. 



Chester Dewey, D. I)., LL. D., nt tbe time of bis death emeritus 
professor iu the University of Eochester, was in two respects a repre- 
sentative man. He was not only a typical teacher, but he also held n 
distinguished position among tbe few who at an early day cultivated and 
organized the study of natural science in America. In these two rela- 
tions we propose to speak of bis life and labors. 

Dr. Dewey was born in Shef&eld, Berkshire County, Massachusetts, 
October 25, 1784. His father was a man of strong character and clear 
head, who seems to have had the will and the capacity to give his son 
a most symmetrical training, both moral and intellectual. In this work 
the father was aided by a wife of singular piety, cheerfulness, and moral 
excellence. It was doubtless to these early formative inliuences that Dr. 
Dewey owed much of that moral completeness which adorned the whole 
of his subsequent life. After a youth spent in alternate labor on the 
farm, and study in the common school, he fitted himself to enter the 
college at Williamstown, Massachusetts, in his eighteenth year. He 
graduated iu 180G, taking rank as a scholar among the first iu his class. 
During his residence in college he became the subject of those deep 
religious convictions, by which he ever after ordered his entire life. In 
1807, he was licensed to preach by the Berkshire Congregationalist Asso- 
ciation. After teaching and preaching for a few months at Stockbridge 
and Tyringham, Massachusetts, he was appointed a tutor in Williams 
College. After two years' service iu this capacity, he was elected (at 
the age of twenty-six) professor of mathematics and natural philosophy. 
He held this position till 1827, a period of seventeen years. During 
this time the college was jjoor, and struggling for life. Of necessity, a 
heavy burden of labor and responsibility rested upon the officers of 
instruction. Among these, Dr. Dewey bore a distinguished part. In 
times of confusion and internal disorder, his influence over the students 
is said to have been most salutary and powerful. According to tlie 
custom of the time, his department of instruction induded not onlj' 
mathematics and physics, but the whole range of chemistry and the 
natural sciences. 

He entered upon the work of accumulating and organizing the 
apparatus and collections requisite for the study of chemistry and natu- 



232 LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY. 

lal history with great zeal ami entlinsiasni; while lie was equallj' 
earnest in giving instruction in tlie severer i)ortions of the broad depart- 
ment for whose cultivation in the college he was made responsible. He 
fitted up a laboratory, and commenced making collections for the illus- 
tration of botany, mineralogy, and geology. This was accomplished 
mainly by personal labor and exchanges with those engaged in similar 
pursuits in our own and other countries. These labors gave the initial 
impulse to the cultivation of the natural sciences in Williams College, 
and laid the foundations ot its now large and valuable illustrative collec- 
tions. 

In 1827, Dr. Dewey resigned the chair which he had so long held. 
The friends of education in Western MaJ^sachusetts had been im[)ressed 
with the necessity of providing more systematic and vigorous instruction 
for young men preparing for college and immediate business i)ursuits. 
An opportunity for ])ublic service of this sort of more immediate useful- 
ness, as it seemed to him, than was afforded by his college chair, was 
found in the establishment of a gymnasium at Pittsfield. He removed 
to Pittsfield, where he had previously been engaged as professor of 
chemistry in the Medical College, and became principal of this institution. 
He remained in Pittsfield nine years, at the same time occui)ying the 
chair of chemistry in the medical colleges in Pittsfield and in Woodstock, 
Vermont. At the end of this period he removed to Eochester, Xew 
York, and took charge of the collegiate institute in that city. This 
institution, in connection witli Professor Is. W. Benedict, he conducted 
with high success for fourteen years. In 1850, at the establishment of 
the University of Ilochester, he was elected professor of chemistry and 
natural history in that institution, and continued to discharge the 
duties of that chair for a little more than ten ^ears. He retired from 
active duty at the ripe age of seventy-six. It was during the period of 
his connection with the university that I first became acquainted with 
Dr. Dev>'ey personally and in the work of instruction. 

In attempting an estimate of the services and worth of our venerated 
friend, we are naturally led first to speak of him as a teacher. In his 
chosen profession he was an enthusiast. His whole life was absorbed in 
obtaining knowledge and imparting it to others. In the street, in the 
social circle, in the i)rolessor's chair, he was always the teacher. No 
person could come within the sphere of his influence without carrying 
away some new fact or thought, or being inoculated with new love for 
moral or natural truth. In accunuilatiug knowledge he seemed always 
to have in mind the idea of imparting it to others. In his mind new 
truths seemed to fall spontaneously into the form best adapted for 
presentation to the learner. He always (X)nceived of nature and man as 
belonging to a coumiou system, related to each other iu every part, and 
designed to illustrate a common moral purpose. This naturally led him 
to estimate new investigations and discoveries to be important mainly 
as they served to set forth the moral dignity of man, to promote his 



LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY, 233 

hiippiuess, and elevate liis character. His intellectual life was a beau- 
tiful commentary on the remark of Gibbon, that "it is a greater glory 
to science to develop and perfect mankind, than it is to enlarge the boun- 
daries of the known universe." He appeared to study nature, not so 
niuch for the reputation which knowledge or discovery would secure to 
him, as from a tender affection for her various forms and aspects con- 
sidered as exhibiting a grand connection of benevolent uses, means, and 
ends, revealing the goodness and wisdom of the Almighty. Hence, he 
was utterly free from those petty jealousies which so often manifest 
themselves among scientific men. He rejoiced in scientific progress, to 
whomsoever it was due, and was always most generous in his estimate 
of the achievements of others. Every discovery which developed new 
elements in the Divine plan was to him a matter for personal rejoiciug. 
Whittier's verses, describing St. Pierre's sympathizing relation to nature, 
are more strictly applicable to Dr. Dewey than to the brilliant French- 
man : 

" She laid lier great heart bare to hiiu, 
Its loves and sweet accords — he saw 

The beauty of her perfect law. 

# # ^ * ?f # 

And thus he seemed to hear the soug 
That swept of old the stars along, 
And to his eyes the earth once more 
Its fresh and primal beauty bore." 

To his mind there was no broad separation between the moral and 
the material order. But he was intensely averse to that false philosophy 
which seeks unity at the expense of reducing all thought and volition 
to dynamics, making no distiuction between man and a crystal. To his 
mind, the whole scheme of material things was ever throbbing and 
quivering with divine life, benevolence, and power. This profound 
recognition of God in the modes in which He has revealed himself, rounded 
and completed his moral and intellectual life, and made him, by way of 
eminence, the Good Teacher. 

His scientific attainments were supplemented by various and thorough 
knowledge in the department of critical scholarship. This gave a breadth 
and many-sidedness to his mind, which is so conspicuously wanting 
in many of the scientific men of our time. In the lecture-room, Dr. 
Dewey was exact and brief in his statements of principles ; clear and 
full in his illustrations of difliculties ; sympathetic with the dull in in- 
tellect, and patient with the wayward and inatteutive. As a colleague, 
he was uniformly unselfish and courteous, bearing his share of all com- 
mon burdens, ready to receive suggestions, never taking offense at trifles, 
exhibiting always that rare combination of natural qualities and acquired 
habits which distinguishes the Christiai4 gentleman. He loved his 
work, continued in it during his whole active life, and neither sought 
nor wished for any other employment. It was his lot to have been 
connected with schools and colleges which have been recently founded 



234 LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY. 

or were in the process of formation. For this reason his hibors were 
the more self-denying. 

He also represents two departments of the teacher's profession. He 
went from a college chair, in which he had been eminently successful, 
into an academy, and from an academy back again to a college 
chair, simply at the call of duty, apparently without a thought that dig- 
nity or position was in the slightest degree affected by either transfer. 
His only desire was to ascertain the position in which he could be most 
useful to his fellow-men. In view of these facts in our friend's career, I 
cannot forbear to note the lesson which they convey to our profession. 
As teachers, we should always bear in mind that we belong to a brother- 
hood laboring in a common work for a common end ; that rank and dig- 
nity among us do not depend upon the accidents of position, but upon 
high attainments and faithful services, no matter wliere those attain- 
ments are made or those services rendered. In this respect the legal 
l^rofession gives us a worthy example. From the Chief Justice of the 
United States to the village attorney, all lawyers, as members of the 
profession, are brethren, and erpial. Let us frown upon any attempt to 
separate our profession into sects and orders, on the false assumption 
that there are, or can be, rival dignities or clashing interests among 
those engaged in the high and benevolent work of training the minds 
and characters of the young. 

As a man of science. Dr. Dewey belongs to a class whose abilities and 
public services are liable, in our time, to be overlooked or underrated. 
1 refer to those men who were pioneers in the work of cultivating and 
popularizing natural science in our country. When Amos Eaton, Parker 
Cleaveland, Robert Hare, Benjamin Silliman, Edward Hitchcock, and 
Chester Dewey began their labors, the natural sciences, as they are now 
understood, had in this country hardly an existence. Since that time the 
discoveries and investigations upon which they rest have, in great part, 
been made or matured. 

Dr. Dewey left college in 1806. Just about this period that remark- 
able impulse was given to scientific inquiry, resulting in an almost 
simultaneous development of chemistry, zoology, crystalography, botany, 
and geology, which rendered the first half of the nineteenth century so 
supremely illustrious. What are now elementary truths, finding a place 
in every text-book, were then either undiscovered or new and strange, 
waiting the time of their acceptance or verification. The very year of 
Dr. Dewey's graduation, Davy made his discovery of the metallic bases 
of the alkalies, and promulgated the electro-chemical theory by extend- 
ing and applying the discoveries of Galvani and Volta. A few years 
previous, Lavoisier and his associates had published their new system of 
chemical nomenclature. In 4807, Dalton's law of chemical equivalents 
and definite proportions was first given to the world. Hiiuy, Weiss, and 
Mohs published their new views on crystalography from 1800 to 1809, 
while Berzelius and others were at the same time developing the chem- 



LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY. " 235 

ical system of mineralogical classificatiou. Tbe natural system of botany, 
founded by the younger Jussieu, was, during this period, slowly making 
its way to public favor. Cuvier's " Fossil Bones," which first raised 
geology to the rank of a science, was not published till 1812. The "Ani- 
mal Kingdom," which rendered a similar service to systematic zoology, 
appeared in 1817. William Smith, who, in England, was learning to 
describe strata in difierent parts of the island, and to identify them by 
their fossil remains, gave his results to the public about the same period, 
his most important work having been imblished in 1815. Many other 
facts in the history of science, which will occur to those who now hear 
me, illustrate the fact that our scientific pioneers labored under the dis- 
advantage of having begun their career with the infancy of the sciences 
which they cultivated. They grew intellectually with the growth of 
natural knowledge, and their active lives stretched over the whole x^eriod 
during which these sciences were born and reached maturity. 

The scientific attainments of these men were not made like those of 
young naturalists in our time, by the study of a body of coherent and 
established truths, or by the accumulation of new facts which take their 
places naturally under laws already verified, or fall into classifications 
already fixed and named. Their attainments were made amidst sudden 
and almost violent revolutions in method and changes in fundamental 
ideas, which were startling to the timid and bewildering to the weak. 
It required no ordinary courage and manliness, no ordinary faith in the 
universality and coherence of the Almighty's plan in the universe, to 
accept and promulgate ideas which seemed subversive of all established 
opinions — utterly superseding and setting at naught the " wisdom of the 
ancients." 

The facilities for the acquisition of new facts, and the testing and 
verification of the new hypotheses, were inadequate in tlie extreme. 
Laboratories and apparatus were to be created or invented. Cabinets 
of minerals were meager, and collections of fossils were almost unknown. 
A single illustration in point we give from an article in Sillimau's Jour- 
nal for 1805. It will be borne in mind that Professor Silliman, senior, 
was appointed professor of chemistry and natural history in Yale Col- 
lege in 1805. The college was then over a century old, and under the 
presidency of Dr. Dwight. We are told that " not only the chemical 
laboratory, but also the cabinet of minerals, owed its existence to his 
[Professor Silliman's] energy. * * * About the time when Mr. Sil- 
liman was appointed a professor, the entire mineralogical and geological 
collection of Yale College was transported to Philadelphia in one small 
box, that the specimens might be named by Dr. Adam Seybert, then 
fresh from Werner's school at Freiberg, the only man in this country 
who could be regarded as a mineralogist sufficiently trained for that 
work." This illustrates the facilities for the study and illustration of 
natural science at Yale College, and we can readily infer the discourag- 
ing circumstances under which Dr. Dewey began his work and collec- 



236 LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY. 

tioiis in Williamstown. Siicli facts ought to impress tlie present gene- 
ration with an idea of the zeal, energy, and ability of men avIio, in such 
a state of things, could devote themselves to scientific pursuits. 

It should be recollected, also, that these inoneers in science were not 
left free to devote any considerable portion of strength and time to inves- 
tigation and the accumulation of specimens. They were generally over- 
burdened with the work of giving instructions in subjects now distributed 
into three or four departments. Transactions of learned societies were 
procured with difficulty. Scientific journals were few, and in our country 
unknow^n. Communication with Europe was slow and expensive. The 
languages of modern Europe had not then been introduced into the courses 
of public education, and few, comparatively, could command the time or 
means to acquire them, or to travel abroad for the purpose of observation 
and study. These sciences, themselves, being in a formative state, were 
not difl'ereutiated, nor their limits marked out. These men, of necessity, 
studied nature in the mass, meeting often the unclassified subject-matter of 
several sciences in a single investigation. They constantly encountered 
the difficulties resulting from faulty and incoherent terminology. Their 
memories were burdened in keeping abreast with the changes of names 
which rapid scientific progress made necessary. Classes as well as names 
were in a state of constant flux, for we all know that an adequate ter- 
minology always follows and never precedes the knowledge of systems 
and laws. Their experience confirmed the maxim of the French savan, 
that '-science est un langue bien fait." The tax upon time and memorj-, 
requisite to keep abreast of the rapid movement of thought and discovery, 
was enormous. Their mental experience became a register of the mass 
of the false hypotheses, blunders, changes, revolutions, discoveries, and 
generalizations which make up the brilliant and varied history of modern 
science. They were obliged to acquire an equal facility in learning and 
unlearning. The task of laying aside what had been painfully acquired, 
and which some brilliant discovery had suddenly proved to be useless or 
erroneous, was severer than the acquisition of what was new. 

In addition to all this, they were obliged to make a i)lace in an already 
occupied curriculum of college study, for their favorite studies, and to 
vindicate to the public mind their dignity and value. Like the early set- 
tlers of our unbroken forests, they Avere obliged to remove obstacles, 
and furnish a (iareer for those who were to come after them. It is not 
strange, then, that the attainments of such men were affected and modi- 
fied by the conditions of their scientific life — that their knowledge was 
less specific in its form, less methodical in its arrangement, than that of 
their successors at the present day. It is not strange that in the pre- 
sentation of subjects thej' did not take note always of those metes and 
bounds which the accumulated thought of half a century has set up — 
that their mental furniture was encyclopaedic and compendious, rather 
than minute, classified, and exhaustive. The immense range of the 
natural sciences, now that the work of evolution has been so far com- 



LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY. 237 

» 

pleted, makes specialization in study a necessity. But it may be carried 
too far, both in the neglect of general culture in the scientific investiga- 
tor himself, and in the failure to attend to branches of science cognate to 
that specially chosen for cultivation. We believe that in the end noth- 
ing is gained to science by the neglect of those elements of scholarship 
which belong, by common consent, to liberal education, in order to con- 
centrate the activity of an entire life, from boyhood to age, upon a par- 
ticular branch of science. Against such a course the whole example and 
precept of our scientific fathers was directed. There is, in our own time, 
a tendency to confound the spheres of professional and general education, 
and to sacrifice liberal culture to special attainment. This seems tome 
an evil which should be resisted. A distinguished chemist remarked, 
not long since, that it was a cause for constant regret that his students 
in analytical chemistry came to him so often without liberal culture and 
discipline in letters, and general scientific knowledge and method. 

We may also question whether the disposition to specialize, among 
investigators and professional scientific men, may not be carried to ex- 
cess. IMay not what is gained to science in the more rapid accumulation 
of facts, through exclusive devotion to some narrow range of inquiry, be 
more than lost through the resulting deficiency in breadth of view"^ A 
man who carries specialization to extremes, will become intellectually 
purblind, and fail utterly in an adequate comprehension of the material 
and moral cosmos, considered each as parts of one vast whole, finding 
its unity in the mind of God. Said a great naturalist, the other day: 
" I am more and more convinced of the solidaritj' of the sciences. I am 
more and more inclined to distrust the observations of a man who is 
familiar with but one narrow branch of inquiry." Does not knowledge, 
by such specialization, grow faster than wisdom, breadth, and ijower? 
The effect of extreme di^;ision of labor, in manufactures and trade, in 
diminishing general capacity, intellectual and i3hysical, has be(m often 
noted by economists. The guardians of public education, as well as of 
scientific progress, may well be warned of an analogous danger. "The 
more deeply the sciences are investigated," says a great historian, "the 
more clearly is it seen that they are all connected. They resemble a 
vast forest, every tree of which appears, at first sight, to be isolated and 
separate, but, on digging be'neath the surface, their roots are all found 
interlaced with each other." Whatever advantage comes from a broad 
survey of the field of scientific inquiry, accrued to our scientifi(; pioneers 
from the very necessities of their position. The broad, catholic sympa- 
thy of these men with all branches of science, stands in sharp contrast 
to that narrow scientific sectarianism which has too often disgraced 
scientific associations on both sides of the Atlant«c. 

At a time when scientific men of certain sympathies and opinions 
speak of religious men as obstacles to scientific progress, it is well to 
bear in mind the fact that the lathers of American science were, almost 
to a man, earnest believers in the divine authority of Christianity. The 



238 LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY. 

institutions of learning in which, and through which, they labored, were 
all of them founded, endowed, and sustained through the efforts and 
sacrifices of religious men, and especially of the clergy. The pursuits 
of physical science are superficially thought unfavorable to moral and 
religious growth. But so long as we can recall the elevated spiritual 
life of such men as Sillimau, Hitchcock, and Dewey, we need no other 
refutation of such an idea. 

In connection with his labors in giving instruction in colleges, med- 
ical schools, antl academies. Dr. Dewey was not unmindful of his obliga- 
tions to make some additions to the sum of scientific knowledge. He 
was for forty years a constant contributor to Silliman's Journal. He 
always studied with pen in hand, and was a constant writer on scientific 
subjects for the newspaper press. He became early in life an enthusi- 
astic student of botany, and contributed very largely to the scientific 
knowledge of the carices. Dr. Asa Gray, our great botanist, classes 
Dr. Dewey with Schweinitz and Torrey, and speaks of his writings on 
caricograi)hy as an "elaborate monograph, patiently prosecuted through 
more than forty years." He further says that, in connection with the 
two botanists above mentioned, " he laid the foundation and insured 
the popularity of the study of the sedges in this country." Unfortunately, 
Dr. Dewey did not write any systematic treatise on this subject, but his 
numerous short articles represent the progress of his own observations 
and studies, and give a history of the progress of that department of 
botanical science. Dr. Dewey wrote a History of the Herbaceous Plants 
of Massachusetts, which was published by the State. He contributed, 
also, the article "Carices," to Wood's Botany. Up to the last year 
of his life, our friend's mind showed the vigor and enthusiasm of his 
early years, and he was constantly writing on scientific topics. His last 
publications of any length were two review articles, one entitled "The 
true place of man in zoology ;" the other, "An examination of some rea- 
sonings against the unity of mankind." These articles were read first 
before a literary association in Kochester, of which the Doctor was a 
member. They displayed a full and intelligent familiarity with all the 
most recent discoveries and speculations bearing upon these difficult 
and complicated questions. His discussions were conducted with an 
ability, clearness, and learning which, at his age, were surprising. His 
industry in study was unremitting, and u]) to the very last year of his 
life his mind was open to examine, with utter freedom from preju- 
dice, any new discovery or speculation which was worthy of attention. 
His last labors were the orderly arrangement of his large collection of 
sedges, which had been for so many years accumulating on his hands, and 
copying out his meteorological journal. Just before his death, while 
engaged upon his journal, his hand became unable to hold his pen, and, 
calling for the aid of his daughter, he placidly remarked that this would 
be his last report to the Smithsonian Institution. He died calmly, of 
old age, on the 15th of December, 1SG7, in his eighty-third year. He 



LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY, 239 

liad the control of liis faculties to the last, sustained by au unfaltering 
trust in the blessed life hereafter. 

A few remarks further, and we close. All who knew Dr. Dewey were 
impressed with the freshness and vigor of his mind even up to the latest 
period of his life. I have often asked myself this question : How did 
Dr. Dewey retain so fully his mental activity, and grow old so grace- 
fully "? This result seemed to me due, in the first place, to his constant 
eilbrt to keep abreast with the movement of modern discovery and 
thought. He never was satisfied with falling back on past experience 
or old attainments. He believed that morally, intellectually, and phy- 
sically, man is making progress. He held it to be his duty as long as 
he lived to contribute to that progress, and to be himself a vital part of the 
movement. He was always at work ; always acquiring new ideas. Mor- 
ally and scientifically, his mind and sympathies were with the future, 
and not with the past alone. Hence, his brain never became inactive; 
the currents of his intellectual life never grew stagnant and dull. His 
topics of conversation were always of the present and the actual, or of 
some new application, modification, or adjustment of the old and the 
tried. 

Again, he kept up, in a wonderful degree, communion and sympathy 
with the young. With them he established friendships and intimacies. 
In these intimacies, his stores of knowledge and ripened wisdom were 
poured out freely, while the young gave back to him the cheerfulness, 
confidence, and hope natural to their time of life. He was always a 
guide and helper to young and struggling men of talent. The number 
of such who, by his impulse, advice, and encouragement, were led to 
honor and success, was very great. No young scientilic laborer ever 
failed to find a wise and sympathetic friend in Dr. Dewey. Nothing 
gave him greater joj" than the rising distinction of some protege whom 
he had started on the road to fame. His beautiful old age most emphat- 
ically belied Horace's oft-quoted description of the aged man: 

" Difficilis queriilus laudator temi^oins acti 
Se puero, castigator ceusorque minorum." 

No one was more warmly welcomed in society, by old and young, 
than he. 

He kept his youth, too, through the simplicity, purity, and elevation 
of his moral and religious life. His trust in the moral order was as 
habitual and as firm as it was in the law of universal gravitation. 
This gave steadiness to his moral action, and so abated the ordinary 
friction and annoyances of life, that he seemed, to a casual observer, 
almost insensible to their action. For fifteen years I was favored with 
the friendship of Dr. Dewey. A large part of that time I met him daily 
as a colleague. I was associated with him during the period (always 
trying to an old man) when, at the age of»seventy-six, he ceased to dis- 
charge the active duties of his chair ; and I can say, with perfect sin- 
cerity, that to me and his colleagues he seemed incapable of injustice 



240 LIFE OF PROFESSOR CHESTER DEWEY. 

or l)igotry, of meanness or malice, of envy or suspicion. We all lionorecl 
him as a sage ; we loved bim as a father. 1 have never yet met a man 
who so completely, as he, illustrated the moral elevation and spiritual 
beauty of the Great Teacher's Sermon on the Mount. What he was to 
his family and friends, he was to the multitude who knew him but par- 
tially and indirectly. To the whole population of Eochester his pre- 
sence in the streets was a benediction 



TflOFGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ©KIGIN OF FORCE. 



By William B. Taylor, of "Washixgtox. 



The great generalization of our age — tlie continuity or indestructi- 
bility of force — confirmed as it is by a constantly accumulating series 
of inductions, contradicted as it is by no adverse fact, comes gradually 
to impress itself upon our convictions almost with the positiveness of an 
axiom. And yet a slight consideration will show us that it is really but 
a corollary from the particular constitution of matter presented con- 
stantly to our observation. Had we any example of an incompressible 
substance wholly devoid of elasticity — that is, possessing no molecular or 
atomic repulsion, (to adopt the conception entertained by Nev/ton and his 
followers,) but endowed with only cohesive and gravitative attractions — 
then for such matter the theory of the conservation of force would not 
be true. Were two equal balls of such a material to meet in space with 
equal and opposite velocities, at the moment of impact there would be, 
with the arrest of motion, the actual destruction of the entire living 
force they jointly possessed. Not only would there be no rebound, but 
there would be no internal molecular work effected, and no heat gene- 
lated to represent a surviving or transformed energy. 

The doctrine of the correlation and conservation of forces depends 
therefore upon the coexistence in all matter of two opposing tendencies, 
namely, those of attraction and repulsion ; and from the ceaseless play 
and struggle of these opposing tendencies are derived ultimately all 
the varied phenomena of the visible universe. 

The most ordinary and obvious manifestations of force are those exhib- 
iting motion; as in the whirlwind and the cataract, the volcano and the 
earthquake, the steamship and the locomotive train. There has accord- 
ingly been a very general tendency to confound force and motion ; and 
this fallacious confusion has not unfrequently vitiated the reasonings 
of even intelligent writers. 

To distinguish, however, motion from force on the one hand, it may 
be remarked that they never have a common measure; and to distinguish 
force from motion on the other hand, it is only necessary to consider the 
fact that we are surrounded by a vast array of statical forces, continu- 
ally resisting the most energetic solicitations to motion. 

First, as to the absence of a common measure : It is found that the 
rate of motion follows only the law of the square root of the force orig- 
inating it. A double consumption of fuel will not double the speed of 
a locomotive-engine. On the contrary, (as is well known to the engineer,) 
four times the quantity of fuel is necessary to attain this duplication of 
16 s 



242 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 

effect. So if a pound of gunpowder will impel a cannon-ball with a 
given velocity, it will require four pounds of powder to double that 
velocity. The conservatiou of force, however, is maintained in the fact 
that the penetrating power of the cannon-ball is directly proportional 
to the energy expended in its propulsion ; or, in other words, to the square 
of its velocity. Or, to express the distinction in the established formula- 
while in X V represents the quantity of motion in a moving body, m x r 
represents its quantity of fo7xe. 

Secondly, in regard to static force : Every one who has ever attempted 
to hold aloft a heavy weight as motionless as possible will have had a 
realizing sense of the expenditure of energy required, not to produce^ 
but to prevent motion. The Suspension Bridge at Niagara, safely uphold- 
ing its thousands of tons of loaded cars and human freight over the 
frightful chasm beneath, may be cited as one among an infinite number 
of examples of statical force, or of fou-er in repose. 

The avalanche, hurtling down the mountain side with destructive vio- 
lence, overwhelming a village and its inhabitants, is but expending a 
force stored up a year or years before, by the sun, when it lifted the 
mass, molecule by molecule, to its position of latent or potential energy. 

Every pound of coal possesses a static or potential force of ten million 
''foot-pounds." That is to say, the power expended by the sun in rais- 
ing the pound of coal from its low estate of chemical combination, or a 
satisfied affinity, to the higher plane of isolation and capacity for chem- 
ical reunion, was a power capable of lifting one thousand pounds of 
water to the height of ten thousand feet. And, conversely, the pound 
of coal thus chemically raised has itself received the power of mechan- 
ically lifting that immense weight to tliat enormous height. 

It must be borne in mind, however, that when the sun actually does 
lift a thousand pounds of water to the height mentioned, it does not 
raise it bodily as water; it performs the vast additional labor of tearing 
asunder the entire mass, molecule by molecule, in opposition to the 
statical force of an intense cohesive attraction : a work of more than 
ten thousand "foot-pounds;" an expenditure of energy greater than 
that required to grind the same weight of ice (one thousand pounds) to 
the most impalpable powder. Deducting, therefore, this expenditure 
(a little over ten thousand " foot-pounds") we should find that the i^ound 
of coal represents, in a static form, an invested power eipiivalent to 
the lifting of one thousand pounds of water a little more than one foot, 
in addition to the task of evaporating the whole amount.* 

Matter in motion being thus merely a vehicle of force, it follows that 
wherever dynamic or kinetic energy is transformed into potential energy, 
(as in pumping up water into an elevated reservoir,) there motion is to 
this extent destroyed; wherever potential or static energy is trans- 
formed into dynamic, (as in the discharge of aloaded pistol,) there motion is 

* This of course does not include auy actual heating of the water. One pound of 
coal will raise tbirteeu thousand pounds of water 1"^ ; which is equivaleut to only sev- 
enty-two pounds of ice-cold water (32°) raised to the boiling point, (212°.) 



THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 243 

created. A very striking example of the continual transformation back 
and forth of these two conditions of force is presented in i)lanetary 
movements, especially in those of considerable eccentricity. Taking 
the case of a cometary orbit, for example, whose greatest elongation 
should extend beyond the distance of Neptune, while its perihelion 
should lie far within the orbit of Mercury, we should find that the body, 
rushing or falling toward the sun with accelerated rapidity, would 
finally acquire a velocity of a hundred or two hundred miles per second; 
.when its accumulated momentum would suffice to hurl it off as a pro- 
jectile to its remote aphelion, where its velocity would be reduced to 
two or three miles per second, and the body be again in a condition to 
repeat its mighty oscillation. And this majestic pendulum, occupying 
some three-quarters of a century in its excursion, while exhibiting suc- 
cessively so enormous an absorption and alternate generation of motion, 
would at the same time illustrate the constancy and indestructibility of 
its force, in its transformation from the latent to the actual, and vice 
versa; the vis-viva of its lowest speed, jAiis its coexisting potential of 
gravitation at highest elevation, being exactly equal to those of its 
highest speed and lowest fall. 

And yet, obvious as these truths appear, an acute and compre- 
hensive thinker in an admirable exposition of the doctrine of evo- 
lution, has devoted a chapter to the unfortunate fallacy of the 
" Continuity [or indestructibility] of Motion." If it be once admitted 
that motion can be transmuted into any other form of force, then of 
necessity it cannot exist also as motion. The loose brick balanced on 
the chimney top, ready at a sudden gust of wind to topple and to strike 
a passer-by to earth, has a potential force, imparted to it perhaps fifty 
years ago by the hod-carrier and the brick-layer who raised it and 
placed it in its seat of power. During all these fifty years it has lain 
there quiet. True, it has partaken of the earth's rotations and revolu- 
tions; true, it has responded faithfully to all the varying, never-ceasing 
vibrations of summer-heats and winter-colds; and in all this passive 
acquiescence it has but illustrated its inertia. But this is manifestly 
altogether foreign to what we are considering. Whence, then, the motion 
that, commencing with the fall from the -chimney, hurled back the brick 
to the earth from which it had so long before been lifted ? The blast 
that tilted it was but the trigger which set free its latent power. Shall 
we say that the original motion imparted to it was also latent during 
all these years 1 Such an expression as " latent motion " is but a sense- 
less contradiction of terms. The cap-stone of the great pyramid, ele- 
vated to its dizzy height with much effort and labor, might possibly 
remain there unmoved forever. 

The simple truth is, that so far from our having any warrant for the 
assumption that the sum of all the motions in the universe is a constant, 
the repeated creation and destruction of motion is on the contrary neces- 
sarily involved in the indestructible transmutability of force. 



244 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 

These consideratious, of course, apply equally to all tlie various kinds 
of molecular movemeut, such as those of light, of heat, and of electrical 
currents. It is familiar to all that we can create heat, as when we kin- 
dle a lire in the stove, or pass an electrical current through an imper- 
fect conductor, or simply rub two sticks together. It is equally familiar 
that v.'e can destroy heat, as when we employ steam-power for welding, 
forging, rolling, or swaging iron, and measure the effective work per-| 
formed in these operations by the amount of heat abstracted from the 
steam, and forever destroyed as heat. In brief, whenever heat or other 
movement has produced a changed effect in matter, either internally or 
externally, there and to that precise extent has the motion (whether 
molar or molecular) entirely disappeared. 

It is true that we still hear the convenient term '''■latent heat" fre- 
quently employed ; but while holding in all honor the researches of Black, 
who first unfolded to us the curious phenomena grouped under this title, 
we now know by tlie clear light of the dynamic theory that there is no 
such thing as latent heat; that if heat be not sensible, or actual, it is not 
heat at all. We now know that the 142° necessary to liquefy melting 
ice without any increase of temperature, and the 9G5^ absorbed in effect- 
ing the evaporation of boiling water, have had to overcome great mole- 
cular resistances ; and that the internal work thus performed in raising 
the water to a higher potential is exactly measured by the amounts of 
heat respectively thus expended and consumed. When, true to tke 
eternal law of conservation, precisely similar amounts of heat are ob- 
tained by a reversal of the several processes, these temperatures are as 
much a new creation or transformation as when we ignite the carbu- 
reted hydrogen at our gas-burners, or the anthracite in our grates. 

No one would think of saying (excepting metaphorically) that we 
were releasing tlie light and heat stored up — in the one case at the 
retorts of the gas-factory, and in tlie other in the carboniferous labora- 
tory of the solar actinism — a million years ago. Heat latent in coal-, 
fields which may perchance have lain immediately beneath colossal 
glaciers for thousands of years ! As well might we si^eak of the blaze 
emitted by the petroleum lamp as original sun-light which has been 
latent all these millenniums. 

Undoubtedly the more accurate designation of the fact is, that when 
motion has resulted in static condition, the motion is absolutely de- 
stroyed ; when from that condition a succeeding motion is evolved, a 
new motion has been as absolutel}" created; that when one kind of 
motion has been transformed into another kind of motion, the equivalence 
of the two by no means involves the identity of the two. 

Among the multitudinous metamorphoses of force presented to our 
observation, Ave find not unfrequent examples of motion rising higher 
than its source. These oases may, however, all be likened to the famil- 
iar illustration of a large weight on the short end of a lever lifting a 
lighter weight on the other end as many times as high ; or to the par- 



THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 245 

ailel iu.stauce of a considerable body of water by its momentum raising 
&, smaller quantity to a biolier level in the bydraulic ram. Similar in- 
stances of water-power occur in nature, a*s at the mouths of rivers, aud 
at estuaries, where the contracting channel transforms a large mass 
movement into the potential of elevation. A magnificent example of this 
is furnished in the Bay of Fundy, where a huge tide of seventy feet is 
derived from an ocean- wave probably not exceeding two feet in height. 

As in visible or mass motion, the matter may be either falling to a 
lower state of power, (as in the descending weight of a clock or the 
falling water of Niagara,) or rising under a superior external propulsion 
to a higher state of power, {as in a clock being wound i^^ or ocean- water 
being evaporated by the sun,) so in molecular movements, the matter 
maybe either running down, (as in combustion, or in the decomposition 
of quaternary or ternary compounds into more stable binary compounds,) 
or the matter may be raised to higher power, (as in the vegetable de- 
oxidation of carbon by the sun's rays, or in the building up of animal 
substance to more complex and unstable conditions, by the power derived 
frojn other matter running down.) 

Now, in all these wondrously varied and complex transmutations of 
force, while it is certain that the sum of all the static and kinetic forms 
of energy in the universe is a constant, which the human race with all 
its endless appliances of machiuer}^ can no more increase or diminish 
than it can add to or subtract from the quantity of matter, yet it is 
equally true that the store of the former, or the potential in Nature, is 
being in the aggregate diminished by transfer to the condition of the 
latter or the dynamic ; and that in this transfer the general tendency is 
to a form of temperature of greater diffusion, and less capability of fur- 
ther transformation. So that solar and planetary systems are con- 
stantly running down to a lower plane of power — the former by the 
radiation of high heat, the latter by the radiation of low heat — into 
empty celestial spaces.* There is on the whole, therefore, as Professor 
Sir William Thomson has well designated it, a "Dissipation of En- 
ergy." 

In a paper " On a Universal Tendency in Nature to the Dissipation of 
Mechanical Energy," presented to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, April 
19, 1852, Professor Thomson arrives at the conclusions, that " there is 
at present in the material world a universal tendency to the dissipation 
of mechanical energy :" and that " within a finite period of time past 
the earth must have been, and within a finite period of time to come 
the earth must again be, unfit for the habitation of man as at present 

* The whole amount of solar energy incessantly expended on our earth may be esti- 
mated at the amount of 208 hillion 498,027 million " horse-power"— a horse-power 
being equal to 550 foot-pounds per second. But as was shown by the illustrious Dr. 
J. R. IMayer in his Beitrdge zur Di/namilc dcs Himmels, (Hoilbroun, 1848, ) the amount 
of solar heat intercepted by the earth is to the whole amount radiated into space " as 1 
is to 2,300 millions." {On Celestial Dijnmnics. Translated by Dr. H. Debus, L. E. D 
Phil. Mag., April, 1863, Vol. XXV, p. 245.) 



246 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 

constituted ; imless operations have been or are to be performed which 
are impossible under the laws to which the kuow^n o>perations going on 
at present in the material world are subject/^ And in a communication 
to the British Association in September, 18G1, on " Physical Considera- 
tions regarding the Possible Age of the Sun's Heat," Professor Thom- 
son repeats, that " although mechanical energy is indestructible, there 
is a universal tendency to its dissipation, which produces gi^dual aug- 
mentation and diffusion of heat, cessation of motion, and exhaustion of 
potential energy, through the material uuiverse.''t 

In glancing thus cursorily at the nature of force, and its more strik- 
ing manifestations, it is hardly necessaiy to allude to the now recognized 
correlation of the organic and so-called " vital"' forms of power with 
the purely i)hysical and kinetic. It has been reserved to our own day 
to see established in all its fullness the grand dynamic equation — 
'• Causa mqiuit ejfectumP It has been shown by the most varied series 
of experiments and observations that physiological, like mechanical 
processes, are i^ossible only on the sufficient consumption of fuel 5 that 
growth, and development, and muscular movement are derived from the 
oxidation of carbon and of tissue, whose products may be accurately 
measured : and are all but phases of the ever-changing, never-dying 
energy of Nature. 

Perhaps each one who should consult his " consciousness" alone (that 
witness so important to the metaphysician) would feel a conviction that 
when he strikes a blovv' he is exerting an original and self-derived 
power. And yet it is certain that the w ill of an Alexander, a Bonaparte, 
or a Bismarck, would be as impotent to move a grain of sand without 
an adequate supi)ly of pre-existing external force placed at its disposal, 
as to launch the Great Eastern from its ways without a similar s^pplJ^t 

*i. E. D. Phil. Macf., October, 1852, Vol. IV, p. 304. 

t Report of Thirty-lirst Meeting, &c., Notices ami Abstracts, -page 27. (Republished 
ill the L. E. D. Phil. Mag., February, 1862, Vol. XXIII, p. 158.) 

t It is proper to notice here a caution which has been suggested, that the will, though 
aduiitted to be merely a starter or director of the animal store of material force, must 
still exert and therefore originate the power, however small, necessary for such initia- 
tion. Sir John Herschel, in au essay "On the Origin of Force," remarks: "The actual 
force necessary to be onginaied to give rise to the utmost imaginable exertion of ani- 
mal power in any case may be no greater than is required to remove a single material 
molecule from its place through a space inconceivably minute ; no more in comparison 
with the dynamical force disengaged directly or indirectly by the act than the pull of 
a hair-trigger in comparison with the force of the mine which it explodes. But with- 
out the power to make some material disposition, to originate some movement, or to 
change, at least temporarily, the amount of dynamical force appropriate to some one or 
more material molecules, the mechanical results of human or animal volition are incon- 
ceivable. It matters not that we are ignorant of the mode in which this is performed. 
It suffices to bring the origination of dynamical power, to however small an extent, 
within the domain of acknowledged personahty." (The Fortiiighili/ Pevicw for July 1, 
1865, Vol. I, p. 439.) 

This directing capacity of the animal will, like that directing impulse which presides 
over the entire domain of organic evolution, eludes all analysis, and hence has no 
recognized dynamic equivalent. Without attempting to discuss here this very abstruse 



TPIOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 247 

A demonstration of this is seen in the case of luo tor-paralysis, (\Yhich 
may be likened to the state of a steam-engine ^yith the cylinder-valves 
locked in position, or detached from the eccentric,) or in the case of 
that extreme prostration which follows a low fever or prolonged illness, 
(which may be likened to the condition of an engine whose head of 
steam is insufficient to overcome the inertia of the piston.) 

But not only the animal processes of nutrition, growth, and movement 
are maintained ab extra, but those more subtle and mysterious processes 
of thought, emotion, reason, are alike the product of inaterial metamor- 
phosis ; and their activities may be determined by the urea and the 
phosphates, and even phosphoric acid, eliminated by the kidneys. A 
large-brained man sitting idly in his easy-chair, with eyes closed to ex- 
ternal impressions, and indulging in pleasant revery, might seem to be 
the very impersonation of self-contained and self- originating action. 
But apart from the chemical tests alluded to, which would demon- 
strate the fact of matter potential, undergoing a descent, we may 
employ the more direct and delicate indicator, a thermogalvano- 
meter, in connection with the baek part of the dreamer's head, and we 
shall observe the needle to quiver and to fluctuate with the current of 
the varying thought. Let a knock be heard at the door, and though no 
movement of the face, no tremor of the closed eyelid betrays to the ob- 
server a consciousness of the sound, yet this tell-tale needle (sensitive 
to the two-thousandth x)art of a degree Fahrenheit) will attest by a 
deflection, of many degrees of arc the aroused attention involuntarily 
excited through the action of the auditory nerves.* Here, then, we 

point, it may be remarked that our faith iu the doctrine of the constancy of force need 
not be shaken by this sole outstanding difficultj^, or apparent limitation of its univer- 
sality; and that however unable Ave may now be to explain or suggest the hoiv — this 
last residuum, " will-power," (admittedly very small relatively to the product of volun- 
tary force,) as well as that organic-]iower which determines that from the equal stores 
of force laid up in the two eggs of a duck and of an alligator, or of a dove and of a ser- 
pent, the one shall be directed to evolve a bird and the other a reptile — may yet be hero- 
after referred to the magazines each serves to unlock, or else to a principle entirely 
outside of mechanical force. 

* In an interesting account of " Experiments on the Relation of Heat to Mental 
Work," by Professor J. S. Lombard, M. D., of Harvard University, employing a galvan- 
ometer capable of indicating about the live-hundredth part of one degree Fahrenheit 
it is stated that the ordinary variations observed resulting from mental action did not 
amount to more than about the fiftieth of a degree, though quite marked. " Pursuing 
these experiments farther, it was found that anything that aroused the attention was 
capable of causing a greater or less rise of temperature on the i)art of the head, over 
and above that of the body." With the exercise of the higher reasoning powers, " the 
highest rise noticed did not exceed the twentieth of a degree," (about one-eleventh of a 
degree Fahrenheit,) while "the temperature of the extremities fell." " The most striking 
effects of all were ]5roduced by the reading aloud or the recitation of j)oetry." " Read- 
ing or reciting to one's self gave similar results, and often even iu a more marked de- 
gree." " In the last-mentioned series of observations, it was not unfrequently found 
that the temperature of the forehead fell, while that of the back of the head rose ; but 
for what reason, I have not yet been able to determine." ( The Nciv Torlc Medical Journal 
for June, 1867, Vol. V. pp. 198-205.)" 



248 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 

would seeiii to have almost the germ of a phrenometer,, as if in deflauee 
of the protestation that " thought cannot be measured." It is but just, 
however, to admit that this (although in some sense a phrenoscope) is 
not properly a phreno meter, since the effect determined is really only 
a resultant of the mental activity, and not its measure. The thermal 
indication represents (if the expression maj^ be allowed) merely the fric- 
tion of the mechanism. 

On comparing the modes of derivation offeree in machines (especially 
in those known as heat-engines) and in animals, we find that the trans- 
fer is made in substantially the same way. Matter previously raised t(> 
a chemical state of xwwcr is oxidized, and, in running down by this 
process of combustion, (whether slow or rapid,) evolves a molecular ac- 
tivity, which is absorbed and utilized in various ways, according to the 
exact seat of the transfer. Where deoxidized metals are the source of the 
power, (as in the galvanic battery.) the process is very similar. In this 
case, and in mechanisms operated by springs or weights, the potential 
force is first imparted by human labor. 

The source of power, therefore, in machinery, as in the animal econ- 
omy', is derived almost entirely from the vegetable kingdom ; in which, 
matter which has been largely exhausted of its store of force by the en- 
gine and the animal, and discarded as carbonic acid, water, and other 
burned products, is raised again by the action of the solar energy to its 
static plane of chemical potentiality. And it is an interesting and sig- 
nificant fact that the two great vegetable staples consumed by the dead 
and by the living mechanisms respectively are identical in composi- 
tion ; that the cellulose, vv'hich is the principal food of the engine, is chem- 
ically isomeric with the starch which is the principal fuel of the animal. 
And the cellulose of the one, equally with the starch of the other, may, 
as is well known, be converted into sugar. It is hardly necessary to 
explain in this connection that the mineral coal so largely utilized, is itself 
but a metamorphosed cellulose ; whose hydrogen and oxygen, (the ele- 
ments of water,) expelled by geologic heat, have left remaining the car- 
bon almost in a state of isolated purity. 

IsTor does it detract from the value of this parallelism between the diet 
of the inorganic and organic worker, that the latter (the animal) has not 
been so organized as to be capable of availing itself directly of the stored 
force in woody fiber ; equal though it be to that which it has been 
adapted to assimilate. 

It is important that we should endeavor to form some conception 
(however inadequate) of the physical mode of action and of deriva- 
tion of the various forms of force presented to us. When a bell is struck 
with a hammer, the metal beneath is carried bj^ the momentum or the 
vis-viva of the blow, beyond its condition of equilibrum due to the 
rigidity or molecular adhesion of the material ; and then instantly recoil- 
ing, thus sets up a vibration counting tens, hundreds, or thousands 
to the second, according to the inertia, or the mass set in motion ; which 



THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 249 

oscillatory motiou is fluallv destroyed onlj' by external and internal re- 
sistances. In a manner somewhat analogous to this, the molecules of 
all matter balanced between opposing attractive and repulsive ten- 
dencies are forever ringing (so to speak) in response to continual dis- 
turbances, though with a rapidity inconceivably greater than any 
known as sound. Thus, when a gas-jet has its surface of contact with 
the atmosphere smitten with a spark or blaze, the molecules of oxygen 
and those of hydrogen and carbon rushing or falling together under the 
impulse of an attraction known as chemical aifiuity, with a violence so 
great as to impinge severely on their several spheres of molecular repul- 
sion, set up a vibration whose velocity or pitch is measured by hundreds 
of millions, in the millionth part of a second. 

When we examine other occasions of heat or molecular movement, 
we find the actions not dissimilar. Thus, in the case of friction, it is 
evident that the more prominent particles, pressed by either side be- 
tween the rubbing surfaces, (not indeed by actual contact, but by 
what is equivalent, their repulsive spheres,) momentarily forced back 
within their repulsions and thereby compressing others, rebound with 
a vigor proportioned to the pressure ; and thus, like a spring, continue 
an oscillation, strengthened and accelerated by the duration of the 
raspings. So, when a body is subjected to percussion, we see how a 
vibration must be started, intense in i)roportion to the violence of the 
blow, as well as to the reinforcement of repeated action. In the fire- 
syringe, the volume of air already possessing a quantity of molecular 
motion due to the ordinary temperature, suddenly compressed into a 
very small space, must of necessity have the velocity of its particles 
greatly increased, and consequently the frequency and violence of the 
repulsive collisions correspondingly aggravated and inteusiiied. 

A similar concei^tion may be extended to the thermal, chemical, and 
magnetic effects of electric currents, whether excited by frictional or by 
chemical disturbance, although the precise nature of the molecular move- 
ments is undoubtedly wrapped in great obscurity. 

As has already been indicated, all applications of animal power may 
obviously be regarded as derived (either directly or indirectly) from the 
static chemical power .of the vegetable substance by which the various 
organisms and their capabilities are sustained ; and this power, in turn, 
from the kinetic action of the sun's rays. 

Winds and ocean currents, hail-storms and rain, sliding glaciers, flow- 
ing rivers, and falling cascades, are the direct offspring of solar heat. 
AU our machinery, therefore, whether driven by the wind-mill or the 
water-wheel, by horse-power or by steam — all the results of electrical 
and electro-magnetic changes — our telegraphs, our clocks, and oiu? 
watches, all are wound up primarily by the sun.* 

The tides, with all their lifting power, (to which the largest ocean- 

* The elder Stephenson, some fifty years ago, appears to have heen the first to form 
the couceiition that his locomotive engines were really di'iveu by solar power. 



250 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 

ships are as feathers,) and all their weariug actiou upou coast aud river 
shores, are due partly to the siiu's attractiou, but in a much larger 
degree to that of the moon, an outlying portion of the ea^rth's former 
equator.* 

Xot pausing to notice the various theories — more or less plausible — of 
chemical or of aqueous agency in earthquake waves and in volcanic 
ejections, we may, for the present purj)ose, regard these occasional out- 
breaks as the readjustments and vents of wide-spread pressure, from 
insensible settlings by the shrinkage of the earth's crust, resulting from 
the extremely slow cooling of the interior mass: the hardened' envel- 
ope of stone or rock, a poorly conducting material, acting as a blanket 
which almost arrests the escape of the internal heat. And this heat, 
again, may be regarded but as a feeble residuum of that cosmical ac- 
tivity still notable in the suu aud other stars. 

Finding thus from observation that the sun is the great source of 
energy — static and kinetic — in almost all terrestrial phenomena, from the 
meteorological to the geographical, from the geological to the biological, 
we can only conclude that in the expenditure aud conversion of molecu- 
lar movements, derived from the sun's rays, must be sought the motive 
power of all this infinitely varied phantasmagoria. Thus, especially in 
the great store of organic force existing in the vegetable world, we 
must suppose that these subtle actinic vibrations, several times finer 
and higher even than those recognized as heat, have such relation to 
the molecular masses and inertia as by "forced" vibrations to overcome 
the powerful attraction of chemical affinities, and fairly to shake the 
particles into isolation, at the same time that other motions, photic and 
thermal, are expended in occluding in the plant structure the carbon 
thus deoxidized and divorced. 

Tracing back these potent quiverings through the ninety-one and a 
half millions of miles of ethereal highway, along whose inconceivable 

* Mayer, iu his rcuiarkaljle Dijnamik clcs Himmels, discussing the retarding effect of 
the tidal Avavc on the eartli's rotation by reason of friction, calculates that this is suf- 
ficient to have lengthened the day, within the last two thousand five hundred years, 
by one-sixteenth of a second. On the other hand, since the globe must have cooled 
somewhat vithin this xjcriod, (estimated at one-fourteenth of a degree Centigrade, or 
about one-eighth of a degree Fahrenheit, for the whole mass,) this would involve a con- 
traction of the earth's radius (or a dei^ressiou of its surface) amounting to about fourteen 
feet nine inches. Such a diminution of the equatorial leverage of rotation necessarily 
implies an acceleration of the motion, or a shortening of the day, very nearly equal to 
the opposite tendency, and counterbalancing it. " When our earth was in its youth its 
velocity of rotation must have increased to a very sensible degree, on account of the 
rapid cooling of its very hot mass. This accelerating cause gradually diminished, and 
as the retarding jiressure of the tidal wave remains nearly constant, the latter must 
finally prei^ouderate, and the velocity of rotation, therefore, continually decrease." 
(i. E. D. FkU. Mag., 1863, Vol. XXV, pp. 409 aud 4-27.) During the historical period, 
accordingly, it ajipears that the length of the day has reached its minimum, and has 
been sensibly constant or uniform, the rotation having greatly increased in the distant 
past, as it must as greatly decrease iu the distant future. 



THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 251 

essence they have so swiftly sped without the slightest loss,* we are 
brought at once to the great problem which has lately been so actively 
pursued — the origin of the sun's rays. 

Assuming matter originally endowed with molecular attractions and 
repulsions, (regarding gravitation as resident in the primitive atom, 
though infinite in range,) and assuming such matter created in a state 
of power — that is, of extreme diffusion, or with its attractions wholly 
unsatisfied — we have all that is necessary to explain dynamically the 
existing order of nature. The great difficulty we have in forming satis- 
factory theories of the constitution of matter lies in the apparent com- 
plexity of the forces displayed. Thus we have at least five distinctly 
marked kinds of molecular attraction, each so characteristic that it can- 
not be converted into or mistaken for either of the others; and there 
are probably as many forms of repulsion. But starting with the idea 
of matter converging or falling together, we see how the encroachment 
of such a condensation on the repulsive spheres must give rise to a vio- 
lent agitation ; in short, to a heat vibration far more energetic or intense 
than any purely chemical action, by as much as the space-potential 
of gravity exceeds that of affinity ; tar more intense, indeed, than any 
temperature now' i^robably existing in the sun.t 

Here, then, in molecular gravitative attraction — as the ultimate resort, 
are we forced to accept the primum mobile — the origin of the power 
which has not only evolved and molded our solar family of worlds, but 
which lias sustained our terrestrial economy in all the wondrous changes 
of its eventful career throughout the geologic ages. Beyond this funda- 
mental conception of mysterious ''attractions" forever resident in 
material elements, it does not appear probable that scientific research 
will be able to carry back the parentage or genesis of force. And yet 
there have not been wanting numerous hardy attempts to frame explana- 
tions and hypothetical antecedents of these postulated affections of atoms, 
or to replace them by dynamical agents or actions ; while really leaving 
the problem of derivation as unsolved, or more insoluble than ever. 

A laborious and ingenious French-Swiss physicist, Georges Louis 
Le Sage, about a century ago, devised the hypothesis that all space was 
occupied with extremely minute bodies, denominated by him " ultra- 
mundane corpuscles,''^ moving in continuous right lines in all possible 
directions, with inconceivable but uniform velocity, and without collision 

* The question is sometimes raised whether the lij^ht and heat of the sun and other 
stars may not be somewhat enfeebled or absorbed in passing throngli the celestial 
spaces. The doctrine of conservation of force teaches ns that any absorption of either 
light or heat implies a proportionate amount of work being done, the consequenceof 
v.'hich would be a heating oi space itself! 

fA pound of coal falling to the sun from the distance of Neptune (which planet must 
be regarded as an ancient landmark of equatorial drift) would reach it with a velocity 
not very far short of four hundred miles per second ; and the arrest of this motion 
would generate a heat vibration many thonsand times greater than could be obtained 
from the combustion of the same pound of coal. 



252 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE, 

or interference; the total resultant of wliose impacts on gross matter 
constituted gravitation. A single particle or mass of matter equally 
inii)ressed on all sides by these universal projectiles would, of course, re- 
main in perfect equilibrium. But two or more such bodies in space, 
screening each other on their facing sides, would be subjected to un- 
balanced imx^acts from these infinitely minute but powerful " corpuscles," 
and would tbus be always urged toward each other in the directions 
joining their centers. No explanation of the origin of the enormous 
living force assumed in these winged motes was attempted. Although 
the law of the inverse square of the distance could be mathematically 
deduced from the assumption, the law of mass ratio was unfortunately 
not so well represented by it. 

Sir John Herschel remarks upon this abstract speculation : " The 
hypothesis of Le Sage, which assumes that every jioint of space is pene- 
trated at every instant of time by material particles, sui generis^ moving 
in right lines in every possible direction, and impinging upon the material 
atoms of bodies, as a mode of accounting for gravitation, is too grotesque 
to need serious consideration ; and besides will render no account of the 
phenomenon of elasticity"* 

More recent speculators have supposed that motion explains every- 
thing ; and they accordingly suggest the probability that all force — in- 
cluding gravitation — is a form of vibration. Observing the remarkable 
extension of the undulatory theory, first to light, and subsequently to 
heat, and perhaps mindful of the radiant law of diminution with the 
square of distance, they seem to have been led from this analogy) to 
overlook the consideration that no vibration is possible without two 
oi^posing forces ; and so in substitution or in explanation of that which 
is itself simple they proffer a duplex causation. All such hypotheses 
have been projected under the impulse of the ancient a priori dogma, 
that "matter cannot act where it is not," or of the equivalent proposi- 
tion, that action upon a distant body is " inconceivable ! "t 

Professor Faraday entertained a somewhat indefinite idea (borrowed 
from Boscovich's abstract centers of force) that matter must be contin- 
uous, or everywhere present, in order that forces may be transmitted 
by virtual contact. He says : " Doubtless the centers of force vary in 
their distance one from another, but that which is truly the matter of 

*'' On the Origin of Force." Fortnightly Review, Vol. I, p. 438. 

t It may be asserted in reply to tliis, that no scientific theory is final until its ultimate 
jiostulate is " inconceivable." " For if the successively deeper interpretations of nature 
■which constitute advancing kno\yledge are merelj' successive inclusions of special 
truths in general truths, and of general truths in truths still more general, it obviously 
follows that the most general truth, not admitting of inclusion in any other, does not 
admit of interpretation. Manifestly as the most general cognition at which we arrive 
cannot be reduced to a more general one, it cannot be understood. Of necessity, there- 
fore, explanation must eventually bring us down to the inexplicable. The deepest truth 
which Ave can got at must be unaccountable." Herbert Spencer, First PrincipJes, 
(second edition,) Part I, Chap. IV, p. 73. 



THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 253 

one atom touclies the matter of its neighbors. Hence matter will be 
continuous throughout ; and in considering a mass of it, we have not to 
suppose a distinction between its atoms and any intervening space. 
The powers around the centers give these centers the proi^erties of atoms 
of matter; and these powers again, when many centers by their con- 
joint forces are grouped into a mass, give to every part of that mass 
the properties of matter."'* And yet, in his earlier speculations, he 
says in regard to electrical action in a vacuum, " Suppose it possible 
for a ijositively electrified particle to be in the center of a vacuum an 
inch in diameter, nothing in my present views forbids that the i:)article 
should act at the distance of half an inch on all the particles forming 
the inner superficies of the bounding sphere."t This, as Dr. Miiller has 
remarked, is certainly an admission of the dreaded actio indistans ; but 
whether this view was subsequently modified is not very clear. Nor is 
it clear that Faraday, in afiirming the presence of matter wherever it 
acts, had any other concei)tion than that usually entertained by those 
who accept the atomic theory. To assert that our moon " touches" the 
earth, nay, that it embraces I^eptune, notwithstanding its perfectly 
determinate boundary of material surface, is only to employ words in a 
wholly unintelligible sense. To affirm an infinitude of material interpen- 
etrations is simply to ask the adoption of a new term instead of " mat- 
ter," to represent that bounded something, or congeries of somethings, 
which all experimental research attests to be impenetrable. 

Professor J. Challis, of the University of Cambridge, England, has 
proposed "A Theory of Molecular Forces," which he has presented 
in a refined mathematical exposition, in a series of essays published 
in the FhiJosophical 2Ia(jazine, from 1859 to 1S71,-| and which, assuming 
the molecules of matter to be surrounded by a continuous ethereal 
medium of uniform elasticity pervading all space, resolves all forms 
of force into the pressure of this ether ; each atom being the center 
of vibrations propagated from it equally in all directions. 

Dr. Balfour Stewart, in an essay on " The Dynamical Theory of Heat," 
appears inclined to favor a somewhat similar view. He remarks : "Till 
we know what the ultimate nature of matter is, it will bo premature to 
speculate as to the ultimate nature of force ; though we have reason to 
believe that it depends upon the diffusion of highly attenuated matter 
throughout space."§ 

Professor Frederick Guthi-ie, in a paper read before the Eoyal Society 
of London, in 1870, " On Approach caused by Vibration," detailing some 
very interesting experiments showing small converging aerial currents 
resulting from tuning-fork vibrations, (in perfect accordance with the 

* L. E. D. Phil Mag., February, 1844, third series, Vol. XXIV, p. 142. ~ 

i Experimental Sesearchcs in Electricity. Reprinted from the Pliil. Trans., 1831-1838. 
Series xiii, sec. 161G, Vol. I, p. 514. 

1 L. E. V. Fhil. Mag., fourth series, Vols. XYIII, pp. 321 and 442 ; XIX, 88 ; XX, 280, 
431 ; XXI, 65, 92 ; XXIIl, 313 ; XXVI, 230 ; XXXI, 459 ; and XLI, 280. 

§ North Briti-^h Eeview, February, 1864 ; (Vol. XL, page 22, American edition.) 



254 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 

matliematical theory of lij-drodynamics,) thiulis he finds iu these phe- 
nomena an explanation of force in general, inclnding that of gravitation. 
He observes : " In mechanics — in nature, there is no such thing as a 
pulling force. * * * The line of conclusions here indicated tends to 
argue that there is no such thing as attraction in the sense of a pull- 
ing force, and that two utterly isolated bodies cannot influence one 
another. If the ethereal vibrations which are supposed to constitute 
radiant heat, resemble the aerial vibrations which constitute radiant 
sound, the heat which allbodiespossess, and which they are all supposedto 
radiate in exchange, will cause all bodies to be urged toward one another."* 
Supposing that such resulting ethereal currents could have any sen- 
sible influence on planetary masses, it seems to be entirely overlooked 
that such currents would be of the most variable and fitful character. 
Every sun-spot would derange the planetary orbits; jDlanets when cloud- 
clad would affect eacli other very differently from those having trans- 
parent or diathermanous atmospheres ; and no resource of mathematics 
could ever predict an occultation or eclipse. 

Were it necessary to discuss the question whether gravitation is 
either a form or a result of motion, the fact that its action is instanta- 
neous, that it requires no sensible lapse of time to be felt by the most 
distant planet, is perhaps the most direct evidence bearing on the point. 
Were any interval of time occupied in the transmission of this influence 
from the sun to a planet, there would result a phenomenon of " aberra- 
tion" (similar to that of light) by the amount of orbital motion occur- 
ring during the time of its transit, the consequence of which would be 
an acceleration and extension of the radius- vector, or a spiral unwinding 
and final dispersion of all the planets and their satellites. In general 
terms, the stability of a planetary system, or the conservation of mean 
distances, depends upon the absolutely radial and immediate action 
of the central attraction. Sui^posing, in the case of our earth, that 
gravity occupied even so short a time as the hundredth part of one second 
in passing over the ninety-one and a half million miles from the sun — dur- 
ing this interval (of the one-hundredth of a second) the planet would 
have traveled about one thousand feet in its orbit; and the resulting dis- 
placemeut or " aberration'' of directive force would be about the twenty- 
five-hundredth part of one second of orbital arc. It has been shown 
that even this small deviation would have been noticeable in the 
two thousand years separating us from the time of Hipparchus. Arago 
has estimated that any possible velocltt/ of gravitation must be, at least, 
fifty million times that of light !t 

Gravitation, therefore, is not a motion ; nor is it the product of any 
motion. We are forced to the conclusion, however " unable to conceive" 
the fact, that it is really an actio in dlstans, and that ad infinitum ; that 
it is a force, a ftiint reflex of its Author, Instantaneously omnipresent. 

* L. E. D. Phil. Mag. for November, 1870, Vol. XL, p. 354 ; ami Juno, 1871, Vol. XLI, 
p. 406. 

t Popular Adrononvj, English edition, Vol. II, p. 469. 



THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 255 

In the peculiar phenomena of magnetism, we have reason to believe 
that the attraction (as in the cases of gravitation, cohesion, and affinity) 
is resident in the ultimate molecules, if not in the constituent atoms. 
However minutely we may subdivide a magnetic bar of steel or nickel, 
(cobalt or manganese,) we cannot separate the poles — the attractive from 
the repellant. However small these fissiparous segments, each is itself 
a perfect magnet, with equal opposite polarity. 

It is evident that the arrangement of the molecules in a magnetic bar, 
all axially accordant in direction, must be one of constraint, since 
although a single line of such particles would find a stable equilibrium 
in that uniform direction of polarity which should satisfy the attractions 
of all their contacts, yet a second adjacent line, similarly directed, would 
constantly present to the first line the antagonism of connatural or 
homogeneous poles. Hence, to secure a general stability of equilibrium, 
the supposed lines of molecular magnets should be alternately reversed. 
But such an arrangement would result in a complete neutralization of 
the attractive and repulsive forces, and the mass or bar of metal thus 
constituted, possessing no internal differential resultant, would exhibit 
no traces of integral polarity or magnetism. 

Assuming (as we have reason from various considerations to believe) 
that in all solids the constituent particles, however firmly locked by 
their cohesive forces in their fixed relations of distance and position, 
are yet capable of rotation within their magic spheres, without affecting 
their solidarity, we can easily' perceive how, under the attractive induc- 
tion of a i)owerful external magnet, a bar of iron constituted as just 
suggested would have at once its constituent molecules polarized in 
direction, and thus become a sensible magnet, while it would as quickly 
relapse from this condition of restraint on the removal of the controlling 
agency. The actual behavior of iron is exactly conformable with such 
an organization. The entire efficiency of the electro-magnet for the 
purpose of telegraphy depends upon this property of facile molecular 
rotation in the iron magnet, whereby it instantly becomes spontaneously 
(Zepolarized on the suspension of the electric current. 

Under the quaquaversal disposition of the molecular axes, thus shown 
to be the normal condition of equilibrium, it follows that the magnetism 
of matter, however powerful, should remain forever latent, and all its 
manifestations in abeyance, did not some potent interference disturb 
this neutrality. 

If, however, we further assume that in very rare cases, as in that of 
nickel or of hardened steel, a considerable amount of adhesion (the 
nature of Vv^hich we are unable to comprehend) exists between the con- 
stituent particles, preventing their easy rotation, then we can perceive 
that tlie presentation of a x)owerful external magnet to such a bar 
would not easily or at once induce a sensible magnetization. If, however, 
the solicitation of the attracting magnet were sufficiently powerful, and 
sufficiently continued, to overcome the resistance of this molecular 



256 THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 

adhesion, we can also perceive that tlie particles, wLeu ouce brought 
into a common polarization, would be likely to maintain their constrained 
axial position permanently, i^rovided that the adhesive resistances of 
the molecules should exceed their magnetic resistances. Such a behav- 
ior we find presented by hardened steel, to which habit the name 
"specific coercitive power" has been given. 

There is obviously no transfer of virtue from the magnetizing to the 
maguetized body. On the contrary, the former is actually strengthened 
by its evolution of the manifestation in the latter — a result in perfect 
accord with the supposition of a reaction of mutual pretixisting attrac- 
tions. 

It is familiar that by holding a bar of steel in the direction of the 
earth's magnetic pole, or rather of its magnetic dip, and giving the end 
of the bar a few taps with a hammer, we can at once induce the mag- 
netic condition. Here obviously the molecular vibrations from the blow 
have facilitated the rotations necessar}" to bring the particles into axial 
accord. 

The work expended therefore in developing the magnetism of a steel 
bar, whether by the mechanical passes of an artificial magnet, the long- 
continued induction of the terrestrial polarity, or the molecular disturb- 
ance of an eletrical coil, is simply that required to overcome the original 
resistances to the changed condition. The magnetic force, or dual forces, 
must be regarded as primitive, constant, unchangeable attributes of the 
ultimate particles of matter ; as incapable of increase, of diminution, or 
of transfer, as gravitation itself. And the notable discovery of diamag- 
netisni, by Faraday, leads us to believe that all matter has this polar 
quality indelibly stamped upon it in A'arying degrees ; the molecules of 
nitrogen possessing it in the smallest degree of any known element. 

Analogical reasoning would appear to justify the conclusion that 
electrical attraction and repulsion (capricious, ephemeral, and mysterious 
as they appear) belong to the same category of origiiial and unalterable 
molecular properties, although it is by no means easy to give so rational 
an account of the i^henomena observed as in the case of magnetism. 
The fact that both are j^olar forces, exhibiting a duplex action ; that in 
both cases similar states or poles repel each other, and opposite states 
or poles attract each other ; that these conditions of attraction and 
repulsion apply equally or indifferentl}" to either jDole; and that an 
opposing polarity may be induced by approach in other matter, would 
certainly indicate a very similar nature and seat of infiuence. 

In the apparent transfer, however, of electricity by contact or discharge, 
and in the neutral equilibrium immediately resulting, there is an action 
sui generis ; as also in its manifestation as a differential of chemical, or 
of thermal activities. In the mutual reactions of the magnet and the 
electrical current, still more puzzling phenomena are i^resentedj and 
without attempting to discuss Ampere's ingenious theory of the " sole- 
noid," the observed fact that each does exhibit a torsional or tangential 



THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. 257 

action iTpon the other ivS one which has no parallel or analogue in any 
other of the known natural forces. In the quasi-magnetic behavior of 
electrical currents, whatever the vehicle or electrode, occurs a further 
extension of the same peculiarity. 

ISTotwithstanding all these difficulties, and the intimate relations of 
"dynamic" with so-called "static electricity," a more comprehensive 
and rational theory of this most abstruse subject may hereafter establish 
as radical a distinction between the molecular movements constituting 
electrical currents, and the molecular capacities of polarity, or of electrical 
attraction and repulsion, as has been found to exist between light or 
heat and chemical affinities or molecular repulsions. 

N'or is the inference here suggested affected by the fact that Joule, in 
1843, derived his first approximation to the mechanical equivalent of 
heat from experiments "on the calorific effects of magneto-electricity,"* 
any more than it is by the fact that we accept terrestrial gravity, at the 
earth's surface, as the standard of comparison for all forms of energy. 

It was seen at the outset that the conditions of antagonistic molecular 
attraction and repulsion, such as we find in the actual constitution of 
matter, were essential postulates to the theory of the conservation or 
persistence of force. We have been led to the conclusion that these 
same antagonistic principles constitute equally the real, efficient origin 
of force. And though we are provided with no general term to embrace 
these primordial, indestructible, immutable, statical centers offeree, and 
to distinguish them from those other derivative, evanescent, and con- 
vertible forms of energy, exhibited either in the potential of constrained 
position, or in the actual of changing position, yet the two classes appear 
to be so essentially dissimilar that it may well be doubted whether the 
language very frequently employed by writers to express the correlations 
and transformations of material forces is really an accurate statement of 
the fact. 

If it be true that all j)henomena of energy may be traced back ulti- 
mately to molecular attractions and repulsions as their primeval parents, 
and if these same attractions and repulsions are found to be persistent, 
ever-present, and unexchangeable, however fi-equentiy matter in its pro- 
tean character may be shifted (so to speak) from the active dominion of 
the one to that of another, it would seem to be exceedingly improbable 
that, conversely, any form of molecular attraction or repulsion can be 
produced or derived from motion, or from the ordinary manifestations 
of dynamic ene-rgy. 

If this be so, we are not warranted in speaking of the correlations of 
gravity, of cohesion, of chemical affinity, and of magnetism, in the same 
sense in which we apply the term correlation to the secondary or con- 
vertible forms of force, as among themselves, and as connected with 
their primaries. 

* Mr. Joule's paper, read before the British Associatiou, August, 1843, was published in 
the L. E. D. Phil. Mag. of that year, Vol. XXIII, pages 263, 347, aud 435. 
17 S 



INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION. 



A DISCOURSE BY JUSTUS BARON VON LIEBIG. 

DELIVERED I>f THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF 8CIEXCES, MUNICH. 



{Translated for the Smithsonian Institution.) 

The ideas of tbe generality of men respecting the natnre of scientific 
research are so imperfect and erroneous that it will not, perhaps, be 
without interest to many if I attempt to elucidate aud complete the 
views which I advanced on this subject in a former discourse on Francis 
Bacon, of Verulam. 

Philosophers pursue in general two methods of inquiry in regard to 
the phenomena or laws of nature, induction and deduction ; they are in 
eifect but different processes, while tlieir object is the same ; the dis- 
tinction between them depends upon the point of outset ; the deductive 
metliod sets out from generals, the inductive from particulars ; in the 
combination of the two induction precedes deduction. 

The nature of induction, according to Aristotle's view of it, may per- 
haps be best illustrated by the example which he himself gives of an 
inductive conclusion : 

Mau, the horse, the mule, &c., live long. 
Man, the horse, the mule, &c., have little gall. 
Therefore, all auiruals that have little gall live loug. 

This mode of conclusion, if so we must call it, is a verj' easy oue to 
the inquirer ; but what is here styled a conclusion is only the observa- 
tion of the juxtaposition of two phenomena; scarcity of gall is a fact 
which accompanies long life ; it is part of a whole, and the conclusion 
no syllogism,, including in itself the reason of the dependence of longev- 
ity on the i)aucity of the secretion in question. We need only substi- 
tute in the middle term, instead of gall, any other simultaneous fact 
peculiar to certain animals, for instance : 
Horses, mules, &c., live long. 

fhave little gall. 
Horses, mules, <! ^'^'''^ Slvcose in their muscular tissues. 
I have uo uric acid, {Harnsaura.) 
[ have (Hippursiiura) 

in order at once to perceive that the connection of these with longevity 
is purely arbitrary and rests on no operation of the understanding. 
The philosopher, for the explanation of a phenomenon of nature or of a 
process, seeks to assign a connection between the parts thereof which 
have come under his observation, and first of all sets out with the sup- 
position, as regards two facts which constantly accompany the i)henome- 



INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION. 259 

non or process, that they postulate oue another, or that one is depend- 
ent on the other ; but this is merely an idea having no real basis for its 
support, but simply a perception which may or may not arise in the 
mind of any one. 

Aristotle denoted induction as being the passage from liarticulars to 
generals, since, in physical inquiry-, our first concern is with the knowl- 
edge of the phenomenon and afterward with its explanation ; but in this 
sense it is clear that he regarded induction not as a method, but as a rule 
of investigation. 

It is plain that if all the forces of nature and their laws were known 
to us, if we knew all things in their nature, action, and properties, the 
investigation of a particular process and its explanation would be a sim- 
ple deductive problem ; each single case would then be soluble through 
a conclusion of the understanding. Suppose, for instance, that the rust- 
ing of iron in the air were the point to be explained ; the i^revious exam- 
ination of rust has determined that it contains iron, oxygen, and water; 
the comi:)osition of air is also known 5 the elements, therefore, for ex- 
plaining the process of rusting are before us, but further inquiry shows 
us that iron in oxygen in the presence of the vapor of water does not 
rust ; there must, then, be some constituent principle of the air, besides 
oxygen and vapor, in order that iron should undergo the process of 
rusting ; now we know that the air actually contains a very small portion 
of carbonic acid, and examination shows that a mere trace of carbonic 
acid suffices, with sufficient access of oxygen, to convert a large mass of 
iron into oxide; but the rust itself contains no carbonic acid. The 
question then is : What part does this acid play in the process ? Another 
known fact now suffices to complete the explanation ; this is the action 
of the oxidulated carbonate of iron ; in damp air it attracts oxygen and 
is converted into the higher oxide which enters not into combination with 
carbonic acid ; it is by the rusting of the metal that the lower oxide first 
originates, and this combines with carbonic acid, which through the 
passage of the oxidulate into free oxide becomes capable of exerting in 
a hundredfold degree its original action on the metal, so that gradually 
the whole i^iece is throughout converted into iron-rust. Inquiry further 
establishes that there is a special case where iron in damp air, even 
without the i^resence of carbonic acid, is thus rusted, when the air, 
namely, contains ammonia; but that in that case the rust does not 
extend, and that, lastly, an electrical process is cooperative with the 
rusting. 

To this class of investigations belongs also that of the production of 
dew by Dr. Wells. That dew is a watery precipitate produced by 
refrigeration admitted of no doubt, nor that the modes of refrigeration 
were only two. The problem only turned upon the question, whether 
the conditions of the cooling were dependent on conduction or on radi- 
ation, which point was susceptible of determination by experiments 
guided by known laws. 



260 INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION. 

To inquiries of this sort no exterior difficulties oppose tliemselves, and, 
for conducting them, lcno^Yledge and the correct appreciation of relations 
abundantly suffice; they rarely occur, because the physical inquirer, for 
most of his problems, does not find ready prepared the thought-material 
requisite for his mental process ; it should also be remarked that by these 
our insight into the nature of phenomena is indeed rendered clearer and 
more thorough, but that the boundaries of science are not thereby 
enlarged. 

In the great number of other inquiries, the inquirer is confronted by 
obstacles which, with the whole stock of knowledge furnished by science 
and with the most perfect powers of discrimination, he cannot remove, 
and these are new facts or phenomena which pertain to unknown laws, 
which are not accessible to the understanding from a deficiency of the 
intervening facts necessary to his ideas. For this class of inquiries there 
must cooperate, in the case of the philosophical inquirer, something 
which essentially characterizes his mind, and that is the force of imagin- 
ation. 

The sum of what we know respecting nature and its forces is, in fact, 
so small when compared with what Ave do not know respecting them, 
that the physicists of our times find themselves, in a majority of cases, 
precisely in the condition of those of the sixteenth century as regards 
those things which to them were unintelligible but to us are easy ; there 
is for us, as there was for them, a defect of clearly comprehensible facts 
essential to the deductive process; in the failure of a single one of these 
the intellect stands before a chasm which it cannot fill up ; in that ear- 
lier time the force of imagination was called in aid to an extent which 
we regard now as wholly inadmissible. The advantage we have over 
the earlj- inquirers rests therefore not on increased intellectual powers 
or on the superior delicacy and penetration of our senses, but on a 
greater affluence of facts or experiences, that is, on an accumulation of 
materials for the operations of the understanding. Hence there is no 
doubt to be raised respecting our relative position ; and yet there are 
but few who have a clear idea of tlie sources from which the constantly 
increasing store of these materials for thought is derived. 

If we cast a glance backward on the hivStory of the so-called inductive 
sciences, we at once recognize that for centuries they had the character 
of an art. Until Kewtou, astronomy and mechanics were arts ; the same 
were physics until the time of Galileo; and chemistry np to that of Berg- 
manu. Boerhaave defines chemistry' as the ars doc^ns exercere certas 
phijsicas operationes. 

Art and science are essentially distinguished from one another by 
their diiferent aims. * That of art is the search for or the finding 
of facts; that of science is the explanation of them. By art, of 
course, we do not here mean any of the fine arts. The artificer seeks to 
attain an object ; the experimental artificer seeks a thing. From particu- 

*" The aim of art is the discovery of facts ; that of science the discovery of principles 
and hiws. — J. H. 



INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION. 261 

lars be would construct a whole. The man of science, on the other hand, 
seeks a reason or principle. From the whole he proceeds by its parts, even 
to the roots. As the artificer knows nothing of a principle, and a prin- 
ciple would be of no help to him, it will be understood that the process 
going on in his mind is no intellectual operation. The intrinsic char- 
acter of his thought resides in this, that he thinks of sensible phe- 
nomena. As the understanding examines ideas, measures, as it were, 
determines and fixes their import, so that they become serviceable for 
deductive operations, just so does the inductive artificer proceed. He 
probes the phenomena with all his senses, and while he applies his 
faculty of perception, with all the tension of his will, to one property 
of a substance or one pecularity of a phenomenon after another, to 
the present exclusion of all others, his imaginative power acquires a 
sharp and definite image of the whole thing, which, like an abstract 
idea, includes in itself the entire essence of the substance or phenomenon. 
A blue, black, or yellow color, or the existence of a white precipitate 
which is soluble or insoluble in a certain acid or alkali, calls up in the 
mind of the chemist the idea of iron, iodine, kali, magnesia, sulphuric, 
or muriatic acid, &c., an ideal iron, iodine, &c., altogether different from 
the conception which men in ordinary life connect with those sub- 
stances. 

The understanding arrives, through the combination of exact ideas, 
at conclusions whose truth is only intellectually discernible; the mental 
combinations of the artificer, on the other hand, are material or capa- 
ble of being represented to the senses. 

In this peculiar mental process, in which the imaginative jiower 
plays the principal part, consists essentially the idea which I should be 
disposed to connect with the word induction, and I do not think that it 
is in conflict with that of Aristotle. 

It is not easy to convey a clear idea of the nature of the mental ope- 
rations of the experimental artificer, which, as already said, depend on 
a combination of -facts or phenomena standing in a similar relation to 
one another, with the logical ideas which guide the understanding in 
its conclusions ; from the facts or reactions known to him he determines 
respecting the existence of a new one before unknown ; his conclusion 
is again a fact or a reaction ; perhaps it is to the peciTliar fiiculty of the 
musical composer, who thinks in sounds, that the i^rocess of chemical or 
physical thinking may be most closely compared. 

In exact research, the 'logic of the explanation of a ])henomenou or 
demonstration of a j)roblem, rests on facts, which hang together as by 
the links of a chain, or as by hinges, and whoever will take the trouble 
to revise a chemical or i^hysical investigation, will at once perceive that 
a majority of the facts which serve the philosophic inquirer for an 
explanation or demonstration, do not offer themselves in nature, but 
that they are first excogitated or devivsed by the inquirer himself; he is 
necessitated to seek out the facts which are wanting to his mental oper- 



262 INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION. 

atiou or deduction by means of induction, tliat is, through the combin- 
ation of his conceptive or imaginative facultj' ; and his labor consists 
in this, that, in conformity with the rules of experimental art, he shall 
call into action the mediums or the substances which seem adapted to his 
purpose, and from the reactions or phenomena which come to light, 
draw a conclusion as to the existence or non-existence of the fact sought 
for ; he contrives, it may be said, a series of trials, which, in their final 
result, give the direction to his deduction. 

The difficulty lies for him herein, that the route to the fact he is seek- 
ing is to him completely unknown ; for were it known, the conclusions 
of the understanding would lend themselves to his aid. He is, there- 
fore, necessitated to abide entirely by the iihenomena which his tenta- 
tives furnish him, since these are the characters which guide his imagin- 
ative power in its combinations. 

The remarkable discovery of ozonized oxygen in a chemical way by 
Schonbein, affords one of the simplest examples of iuductiv^e processes. 
Schonbein had found that, by the transmission of electrical sparks, the 
atmospheric air acquires new properties, of which the most remarkable 
consists in a i^owerful combination faculty of its oxygen, till then 
unknown 5 in such air a number of bodies (silver, for instance) are 
oxydized, on which the oxygen in air not electrified is without any 
influence. Now, how came Schonbein to conclude thereupon, that phos- 
phorus, by being slowly burned in air, would bring about the same 
condition in the air as did the electric spark ? This conclusion was 
based upon the fact that the air after electrification and after con- 
tact with phosphorus smelled precisely alike ; the scenting principle 
in the air, at the same time, had been found by Schonbein to pro- 
duce the same effects. The similarity of a sensible property, of a scent, 
led therefore to the inference of the origin and existence of a like sub- 
stance, ozone, in tsvo processes in their nature entirely different. lu 
this combination of ideas, had the guidance been left to the understand- 
ing, it is highly probable that the discovery would have been imx)eded 
by it; for to the understanding the fact of the origin of a substance 
endued with the highest oxydizing powers, through or near a body 
which, like phosphorus, is in the highest degree oxydizable, would have 
ai)peared wholly improbable. 

One of the most important of Faraday's discoveries furnishes an 
example of a more complex induction. 

Oersted had, through an electrical current, induced magnetism in 
metallic conductors ; the problem wh ich Faraday proposed to himself was, 
the reverse, to generate by means of a magnet an electrical current ; 
it was directed to the production of a phenomenon, and since its law 
and the way to its discovery were unknown, could only be solved in the 
experimental, that is, in the inductive manner. The phenomenon once 
known in all its relations, could then first become the subject of a 
deductive scrutiny, and the contrast of the inductive labor of Faraday 



INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION, 263 

and the deductive labor of Weber is here quite apparent. Faraday 
sought, if we may use the expression, the tiling; Weber the principle or 
thelato. I have heard mathematical physicists regret thatFaradny's trea- 
tises on such subjects were, iu point of style, nearly unintelligible and 
scarcely readable, and that their tenor much resembled an extract from 
a day-book; but the fault was in themselves. Upon physicists who 
have advanced by the way of chemistry to physics, Faraday's treatises 
make much the impression of wonderfully fine music. 

The discovery of the electrical machine, the electrophore, the Leyden 
jar, the voltaic pile, as well as of the three laws of Kepler, has been 
achieved through the combinations of the imaginative power; and so it 
is also with the procedures for the extraction of metals, which, as that 
of iron from iron-stone, of silver from the lead ores, and of copper from 
the copper ores, are among the most complicated of processes. The con- 
version of iron into steel, of copper into brass, the transformation of 
hide into leather, of fat into soap, of common salt into soda, and a thou- 
sand similar important inventions, have been made by men who had no 
idea, or a wholly false one, of the proper nature of the things or pro- 
cesses to which they directed their powers of ideal combination. 

The understanding has not the least to do with the combinations of 
ideas which have carried the manufacturer of glove leather to the tow- 
ers of the city in order to collect for his purposes the white excrement 
of daws and rooks, or which have led the dyer to employ that of the 
cow for fixing on stuffs his mordants and colors, or which, on the lofty 
plains of America, so poor in combustible material, prompted the miner 
to the singular expedient of obtaining silver in the wet way. All this 
will undoubtedly appear remarkable enough when it is remembered that 
until a few years past, the proper nature of glass, soap, and leather was 
unknown, and that researches are still daily made to determine precisely 
the reactions which take place in the melting-oven during the soda 
process. 

As a last example of the inductive procedure in technical processes 
I will select the lately discovered art of producing light-images — pro- 
cesses, however, which have not yet found an exj)lanation. The facts 
which lie at the foundation of j)hotography are two : The one that the 
salts of silver (the chlorine, bromine, iodine of silver) are rendered black 
by the light ; the other that the unblackened combinations of silver are 
soluble in sub-sulphurated natron, so that the blackened and the un- 
blackened may be separated from one another by means of this salt. 

These two facts formed the starting point of the experiments of Da- 
guerre in Paris and of Talbot in London ; the first sought to produce 
images on silvered copper-plates, the other on paper. When, in the 
camera obscura, an image of a tower or of a house, for instance, is 
thrown on paper overspread or saturated with chlorine or iodine of sil- 
ver, there arises in Talbot's experiments, after some hours' exposure to 
the operation of the light, a corresponding image j the more lustrous 



264 INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION. 

l^laces become, in proportion to the strengtli of the liglit, blackened into 
corres])Oudiug- shadows ; the obscure places remain white or luminous. 
The sashes of a window, for instance, throw less light on the paper than 
the glass panes ; a dark stone less than the bright stones. ' Whatever 
is dark in the object appears bright 5 the bright, dark. There is im- 
pressed on the paper a so-called negative image. If the paper be now 
washed with a solution of sub-sulphurated natron, so much of the chlo- 
ride of silver as is unchanged by the light is removed ; had this remained 
on the paper the image would by degrees become black, nnder the ope- 
ration of the light, and again disappear. Tlie salt mentioned is there- 
fore the medium through which it becomes fixed. 

The first images presented by Talbot were very imperfect ; as their 
production required a long exposure to the operation of the light, only 
the images of perfectly immovable objects could be obtained. The ex- 
periments of Daguerre gave occasion to the perfecting of Talbot's pro- 
cedure, but in a singular manner. Daguerre exposed his silvered plates 
to the influence of the vapor of iodine, and in this way gave them an 
extremely thin coating of silver of iodine ; but from this resulted no 
image in the camera obscura. Months of trials, varied in all manner of 
ways, afiorded no results. At length hazard, in the most proper sense, 
came to his aid ; Daguerre had x)ut aside a number of the plates which 
had served for his experiments in an old press, where they remained for 
weeks without further attention. Happening on some occasion to take 
one of them out, he saw, to his utmost surprise, an image traced upon 
it, of the greatest distinctness to the minutest particulars. No idea had 
he how it was produced, but, of course, there must be something in the 
press which had brought to light the image on the plate. Now, there 
were all sorts of things therein : Utensils, apparatus, chemical reagents, 
and, among the rest, a vessel containing quicksilver. Daguerre pro- 
ceeded to remove one article after another, overlooking, however, the 
quicksilver; and he still procured images whenever he allowed one of 
the plates, on which he had thrown an image in the camera obscura, to 
remain some two hours in the press. Of the quicksilver he did not 
think ; the old press had begun to appear to him an enchanted press. 
At last it occurred to him that the image must proceed from the quick- 
silver, and it turned out to be what may be called a breath picture. If 
a drawing be made with a wooden pencil on a clean glass plate, the 
sharpest sight will fail to discover the lines, which nevertheless become 
distinguishable when the places marked by the pencil are breathed upon. 
There exists, in effect, in these places and other parts of the glass an 
unequal condensation of the watery vapor which is deposited thereon in 
fine drops. 

In this manner Daguerre's images originated. Quicksilver is volatile, 
and its vapor had been diffused through the press and settled in minute 
drops on the plates, taking effect more strongly on the more illuminated 
l^arts, so that the outlines and shadings of all objects were rendered 



INDUCTION. AND DEDUCTION. 265 

clearly Tisible. I do not propose to enter bere into the improvement of 
the optical apparatus, nor to explain liow the fugitive images of Da- 
guerre were, by gilding in a chemical way, rendered stable and unalter- 
able, but I return to the images on paper and will first speak of the in- 
fluence which the Daguerrean discoveries had upon Talbot's undertaking. 

Daguerre had found that the effect of the light exerted for a second 
on his prepared plates sufficed, through evaporization with quicksilver, 
to bring out an image. As Talbot had on his paper the same prepara- 
tion as Daguerre on his plates, he inferred that on the paper also, by a 
second's illumination in the camera obscura, the sun must have pro- 
duced an impression ; he was convinced that an image was i^resent on 
the paper, though not a trace of it was to be seen. This conviction im- 
pelled him to seek for some medium through which the figure might be 
brought out ; there must be something, he thought, by which this could 
be effected. jSTow, how came Talbot to employ a solution of gallic acid 
for this purpose ? 

Most persons, perhaps, would be disposed to allege here, as in Da- 
guerre's case, the iuterveution of hazard, but the choice of gallic acid 
was no accident. Daguerre had placed the vessel containing quick- 
silver in the press with no view to experiments ; his images were pro- 
duced through no agency of his. Talbot, on the other hand, applied 
himself to the research for means of accomplishing a definite object, and 
amon^ so many thousand substances his imaginative faculty naturally 
rejected all those which stood in no relation to that object, and dwelt 
only on those which produce an effect similar to that of light. Now, 
light and warm gallic acid blacken the salts of silver ; the effect of botli 
is identical, but that of gallic acid much the stronger. The sun's light 
had, in the camera obscura, produced an effect on the prepnred paper, 
but one too weak to be perceptible ; perhaps it might, as he argued, be 
brought out and strengthened by gallic acid. The trial succeeded, and 
the correctness of the induction was thereby vindicated. 

From these examples the nature of induction ought to be intelligible 
to every one. It will be remarked that an acquaintance with the prin- 
ciple of the processes, how light and gallic acid properly act upon the 
salts of silver, ichereon the solution of these salts in sub-sulphurated 
natron depends, was for Talbot's as well as for Daguerre's purpose per- 
fectly indifferent. 

For those persons who have no acquaintance with the ideal combina- 
tions of the imaginative power, they naturally do not exist, and such 
are for the most part prone to ascribe to chance discoveries which pro- 
ceed from the most sagacious inferences of the facult3^ Chance has in- 
deed its own part therein, siuce the elements for the determinations of 
the understanding are so frequently offered to it by so-called accidental 
circumstances. But the fact that experimentation must be learned ; 
that it has its rules and is an art, and that their results presuppose a 
very widely ranging acquaintanceshii^ with facts or sensible phenomena, 



k 



266 INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION. 

teacbes ns that it rests on a i^roperly intellectual labor, in wbicb tbe un- 
derstanding* participates as a useful counsellor and assistant, but -witb- 
out guiding it and witbout its being dependent tbereupou. 

In science, as well as in common life, tbe operations of tbe mind are 
executed not according to tbe rules of logic, but tbe conception of a 
trutb, tbe idea of a process or tbe cause of a pbenomenon, generally 
precedes tbe demonstration ; tbe conclusion is not reacbed tbrougb tbe 
premises, but tbe conclusion goes before, and tbe premises are tben first 
souglit out as proof. In a conversation witb a celebrated Frencb matb- 
ematician, on tbe part wbicb tbe imaginative faculty bears in scientific 
labors, be expressed bimself to tbe effect tbat by far tbe greater number 
of matbematical trutbs are obtained, not by deduction, but tbrougb 
tbe inventive or imaginative power, and in tbis be bad a view even to 
tbe properties of tbe triangle, tbe ellipsis, &c., wbicb is saying- little 
else tban tbat tbe matbematician, as well as tbe pbysicist, can do notb- 
ing for bis science witbout artistic endowment. 

It is scarcely necessary to say tbat for deductive as well as inductive 
researcb, if any results are to follow, a certain extent of information is 
prerequisite ; for tbe deductive researcb, a well-grounded knowledge of 
laws already discovered, to wbicb previous reading and boolis are con- 
tributary ; for inductive, a comprebensive acquaintance witb mate- 
rial pbenoraena wbicb is to be acquired in cbemical, pbysical, and pbysi- 
ological laboratories. As scbools, tbese last are a modern creation, and 
tbeir influence in tbe development of all departments of pbysical sci- 
ence is, to tbe reflecting observer, a tiling not to be questioned. 

To an acquaintance witb sensible pbenomena or tbe knowledge of tbe 
nature and action of tbings, must be united in tbe case of the inductive 
inquirer, if be would duly resolve tbe problems presented to bim, a mem- 
ory for sensible pbenomena, a memory, it might be said, of sight, taste, 
and smell, together with a certain degree of artistic expertness and dex- 
terity. Tbe broader and more comprebensive his knowledge of facts 
and pbenomena, or, as it is usual to say, tbe greater his experience, so 
much the more will bis labor be lightened ; an experienced man makes 
much fewer experiments than tbe inexperienced, who must make him- 
self acquainted with many i^henomena wbicb to tbe other are already 
familiar ; to the former, indeed, for the attainment of many ends, numer- 
ous exi)eriments would be superfluous, since tbe combination of pro- 
cesses and facts already within bis knowledge, abundantly suffices. 

In the solution of their respective problems, tbe deductive and induc- 
tive inquirer begin in tbe same manner; the one, like tbe other, starts 
from a comjilex idea of the understanding or the imaginative power, of 
which in general only a part is true, while the other parts rest on erro- 
neous inferences or combinations. Tbe deductive inquirer tests and ex- 
periments with intellectual conceptions in order to find tbe trutb, just 
as tbe inductive inquirer does with sensible ideas in order to find the 
thing sought for ; both, in the prosecution of tbeir inquiries, strip away, 



INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION. 267 

by testing- aud improving, what is false, and detect the parts which are 
wanting to complete the idea submitted to examination. The idea from 
which they set out is not nnfrequently wholly false, and the true is first 
sprung in the course of the investigation. Hence, the doctrine of many 
of the greatest inquirers that the labor is everything, and that any 
theory may lead to truth, provided it gives the impulse to toil. 

In deductive inquiry, it is the conviction of the correctness of a con- 
cluding idea {scMuss-idee) which stimulates the understanding of the in- 
quirer to its appropriate activity ; aud so with the experimental arti- 
ficer, the conviction of the existence of a thing is the first and most 
efficacious incitement to the movements of the imaginative power ; the 
discovery of a new fact or reaction, to which the idea of something 
before unknown, something useful or important for industry or life, at- 
taches, is sufficient to awaken the conviction of its existence in many 
individuals, and it not nnfrequently happens that it is in reality simul- 
taneously discovered by several. 

Understanding and imagination are alike necessary to our knowledge, 
and in science are alike authorized ; they both have an allotted part in 
all x>roblems of physics and chemistry, of medicine, of public economy, 
history and philology, and comprise each a certain space in its appro- 
priate province. The part in which the imaginative faculty bears sway 
is proportionately wider and more comprehensive, as the positive knowl- 
edge with which the understanding circumscribes it is more indetermi- 
nate and indistinct. Progress consists in this, that with the increase 
of knowledge, the conceptions which have sprung from the imagination 
vanish, and while in the first periods of science this faculty had undis- 
puted ascendancy, at a later stage it subordinates itself to the under- 
standing and becomes to the latter a helpful and willing servant. 

Induction under the guidance of the imagination is intuitive and cre- 
ative, but vague and extravagant ; deduction under the guidance of the 
understanding analyzes and limits, and is definite and measurable. 

Oue of the most essential characters of deductive inquiry in science 
is measure, and the ultimate aim of all its labors is directed to an unal- 
terable numerical expression for the properties of things, for processes 
and phenomena. Imagination compares and discriminates, but meas- 
ures not, for measurement implies a scale, and that is a product of the 
understanding. 

By the introduction of science into an art accrues an advantage, 
scarcely enough aj)preciated ; that science abolishes art as such, aud 
what is individual in it, while resolving' it into rules which may be 
taught and learned ; through a knowledge of which rules even the un- 
proficient in business, industry, husbandry, and technics, is invested 
with the power of the most proficient, most skillful, and most experi- 
enced i)ractitioner, who attains his aims by the shortest, surest, and 
most economical means. What before was jiroper to the individual be- 
becomes thenceforth the joint property of all. 



ADDRESS ON THE RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND ITS BEARING ON 

MEDICAL PRACTICE. 



By Rev. Sa:mufx Haughtox, of Dublin. 



Me. President and Gentlemen: Man, like other auimals, is bora, 
grows, comes to maturity, reproduces his like, and dies, passing in his 
lifetime through a cycle of changes that may be compared to a secular 
variation, by a metaphor borrowed from the science of astronomy; while 
in his daily life he passes through a smaller cycle of changes that may 
be called i)eriodic. 

From the time of the publication of Bichat's celebrated Essay on Life 
and Death, it has been admitted that man and other animals possess a 
double life, animal and organic, presided over, respectively, by two dis- 
tinct though correlated centers of nervous force; of these, one thinks, 
moves, and feels; the other merely cooks, receiving the food supplied, 
changing and elaborating it into elements suitable for the use of the 
animal life. In the lower forms of animals the organic life becomes 
almost coextensive with the whole being of the creature, Mijich simply 
digests, assimilates, and excretes, but barely feels or moves; in tlie 
higher forms of animals, and more especially in man, the animal life 
dominates over the organic life, which becomes its slave, and exhibits 
the remarkable phenomena of mechanical force, of geometrical instinct, 
of animal cunning, and, finally, in man himself, produces intellectual 
work, rising to its highest form in the religious feeling that recognizes 
its great Creator, and bows in humility before Him. It is a simj^le 
matter of fact, and of every-day observation, that all these forms of 
animal work are the result of the reception and assimilation of a few 
cubic feet of oxygen, a few ounces of water, of starch, of fat, and of 
flesh. 

The general question of the relation of food to work would involve a 
consideration of the possibility of throwing a bridge across the gulf that 
separates the organic from the animal life, so as to connect the products 
of nutrition (taken in its widest sense) with the work of every kind 
accomplished by the animal life, whether mechanical or intellectual. 
We resemble the spiders of the heather on a summer morning, that float 
their gossamer threads into the air from the summit of a branch, in the 
hope that some stray breath of wind may fasten them to a neighboring 
tuft, and enable the hungry speculator to extend the range of his ram- 
bles and his chance of food. Already a few feeble threads connect the 
chemistry of our food with the mechanical work done by our muscles; 
when these shall have been securely fastened, from the higher vantage 



EELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 269 

ground thus acquired, our little bridge of knowledge may possibly be 
extended to embrace the j)lienomena of the geometrical instinct of the 
bee, or the cunning of the beaver, and our successors may even dare to 
speculate on the changes that converted a crust of bread or a bottle of 
■wine, in the brain of Swift, Moliere, or Shakespeare, into the conception 
of the gentle' Glumdalclitch, the rascally Sganarelle, or the immortal 
Falstaff. At present such thoughts would be justly regarded as the 
dreams of a lunatic, and I must crave your indulgence for having men- 
tioned them. The history of science is, however, filled with such 
dreams — some never realized, others converted by time into realities so 
commonplace that the genius of their originators is habitually forgotten 
or underrated. 

During childhood and youth the food that we eat is used for the 
double purpose of building up the tissues of the bones, muscles, brain, 
and other organs of the body, and of supplying the force necessary for 
work done, whether mechanical or intellectual. In adult life the first 
use of food almost disappears, for the bones, muscles, brain, and other 
organs have alreadj" reached their full development, and act simpl}^ as 
the media of communication between the food received and the work 
developed by it. 

Let us take, as illustrations, the muscles and brain, regarded as the 
organs by means of which mechanical and intellectual work is done. 
These organs resemble the piston, beam, and fly-wheel of the steam- 
engine, and, like them, only transmit or store uj) the force communicated 
by the steam in one case, and by the products of the food conveyed by 
the blood in the other case. The mechanical work done by the sfeam- 
engine must be measured by the loss of heat experienced by the steam 
in passing from the boiler, through the cylinder, to the condenser, and 
not by the loss of substance undergone by the several parts of the 
machinery on which it acts. In like manner, the mechanical or intel- 
lectual AYork done by the food we eat is to be measured, not by the 
change of substance of the muscles or brain employed as the agents of 
that work, but simply by the changes in the blood that supplies these 
organs, that is to say, undergone by the food used in its passage 
through the various tissues of the body, before it is finally discharged 
in the form of water, carbonic acid, or urea. 

The Divine Architect has so framed the animal machine, that moves 
and thinks, that the same blood which, by its chemical changes, pro- 
duces movement and thought, also repairs the necessary waste of the 
muscles and brain, by means of which movement and thought are pos- 
sible; just as if the steam that works an engine w-ere able, without the 
aid of the engineer, to repair the wear and tear of its friction and waste 
spontaneously; but no greater mistake is possible in physiology than to 
suppose that the products of the changes in the blood by which 
mechanical or intellectual work is done are themselves merely the 



270 ITS BEAEING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE. 

result of the waste of the organs, wlietlier muscles or braiu, on the 
exercise of which that work depends.* 

The ancients, who derived all their knowledge from observation, and 
not from experiment, were well aware of the double duty imposed upon 
food in early life — of producing both the secular and the periodic varia- 
tions of the body, or, in other words, of promoting growth, and of 
developing work. Their practical knowledge is summed up by Hiiipo- 
crates in the aphorism, "Old men bear want of food best; next those 
that are adults. Youths bear it least, more especially children, and of 
these the most lively are the least capable of enduring it." 

The food consumed in twenty-four hours, including air and water, 
undergoes a series of changes of a chemical character before leaving the 
body, in the form of one or other of its excretions. Some of these changes 
develop force, and others expend force, but the algebraic sum of all the 
gains and losses of force represents the quantity available for work. 
This work must be expended as follows : 

1. The work of growth, [secular.) 

2. The work of maintaining heat, {jjeriodiG.) 

3. Mechanical work, [periodic.) 

4. Vital work, [periodic.) 

During childhood and youth the work of growth is positive, for a cer- 
tain proportion of the food used is employed in building up the tissues 
of the body instead of being expended in actual work ; it is, in fact, 
"stored up" in the body, as i^is tn'ya is stored up by the fly-wheel of 
machinery, and constitutes a reservoir of force that may be called uj)on 
at ail emergency requiring sudden exiienditure of force, as in case of 
illness, or to supply- the gradual wasting of old age. In adult life and 
in old age, the work of growth ceases completely, except so far as is 
necessary to repair, from day to day, the small wastes of the organs 
employed in work; so that nearly the whole of the food employed is 
expended on the periodic work of the body. Hence We can readily see 
the reason for the aphorism which asserts that food is more necessary 
for the young than for the old, and more required by those of a lively 
disposition, either of mind or body, than by others. 

* The very skill with wliich provisiou is made for tlie repair of the waste of the organ 
used as the iustrument of work may mislead the observer iuto supposiug that the work 
itself may be measured by the waste of its instrument. Thus, it has been shown by 
Mr. A. Macalister, of Dublin, that the heart, which has imposed upon it the necessity 
of workiug day and night without ceasing, during life, is furnished with double the 
usual supply of blood through the coronary arteries, which are injected twice for every 
single beat of the lieart. If, indeed, it were possible to assume that all muscles wasted 
equally for equal quantities of work, and also to measure separately the products of 
that waste, we might then assume the waste of the organ as the measure of its work. 
Neither of these assumptions, however, can be admitted, for it can be shown that dif- 
ferent muscles act under diiferent conditions more or less advautageoiislj'^, so that equal 
"wastea would represent uuequal works; and, also, it is impossible to separate in prac- 
tice the lu'oducts of waste of muscles from those of the general changes of the blood. 



RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 271 

HIPPOCRATIC DOCTRINE OF INNATE HEAT. 

Hippocrates was well aware of tlie counectiou between food and 
animal heat, although he erroneously regarded the animal heat as an 
innate property of the body that caused an appetite for food, instead of 
being itself produced by food; if we transpose his cause and effect, 
mutatis mutandis, all his maxims as to animal heat are true. Thus, he 
says : 

"Growing animals possess most innate heat, hence they require most 

food; but the old have least heat, and therefore require 

the least fuel." 

"The cavities of the body are naturally warmest in winter and spring; 

in these seasons therefore most food must be given ; and 

since there is more innate heat, more nourishment is required; as may 
be seen in youths and athletes." 

These maxims, when translated into modern language, express the 
well-known fact that the chemical changes of food that take place in 
the body produce animal heat, and that the necessity for food to supply 
mechanical work is greatest with the young and active, while the neces- 
sity for the production of animal heat is greatest in the cold seasons of 
the year. The direct connection of food with mechanical work is 
expressed in the following maxims: 

"There should be no labor when there is hunger;" and its converse, 
" Let labor precede meals." 

On principles such as those just given, the training of the athletes 
was conducted ; and they were compelled to undergo a regular course, 
commencing with blood-letting and active purgation, and consisting 
of systematic muscular exercise suited to the nature of the contest in- 
tended, accompanied by a dietary, of which the chief ingredients consisted 
of biscuits and pigs' kidneys, washed down by a minimum of water. It 
is truly not much. to be wondered at that those who survived the train- 
ing were formidable in the boxing-ring or race-course. 

The relation of animal heat to respiration is referred to by Hippocrates 
in a remarkable maxim : 

"Those persons have the loudest voices who Lave most [innate] 
heat, for they inspire the largest quantities of the cold air; and the pro- 
duct of two great quantities must be itself great." 

Galen believed the heart to be the center of "innate heat," but he was 
well aware that increase or diminution of respiration caused increase or 
diminution of heat, and was intimately connected with it. Thus he sajs: 

" Since, therefore, the heart is, as it were, the hearth and fountain of 
the innate heat with which the animal is pervaded," &c. 

"The necessity for respiration is the greatest and most imperious 
guard of the innate heat." 

" Those persons in whom the innate heat has been much cooled breathe 
but little and slowly." 



272 ITS BEAKING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE. 

LAVOISIER'S THEORY OF ANIMAL HEAT. 

The doctrine of '^innate" beat, tauglit by nippocrates and Galen, rnled 
in medicine for fifteen hundred years after Galen's death, until it received 
its death-blow IVom the genius of Lavoisier, who demonstrated in his 
celebrated memoir read before the French Academy of Sciences in 1783, 
that the source of animal heat is to be found in the combustion of the 
carbon of the body by the oxygen of the air received into the lungs by 
respiration. Lavoisier's experiments were repeated and confirmed in 
1822 by Dulong and Despretz, and have formed the starting-point for 
all modern investigations on the relation of food to work. As already 
stated, the work done by food in the body may be divided into — 

1. The work of growth. 

2. The work of animal heat. 

3. Mechanical work. 

4. Vital work. 

Lavoisier arranged his experiments so as to exclude almost all the 
foregoing kinds of work except that of animal heat. A Guineivpig 
was placed under a bell-glass inverted over a surface of mercury, and a 
current of fresh air was allowed to circulate through the apparatus, 
being passed at its final exit through tubes containing caustic potash, 
which arrested the carbonic acid produced by the animal. In this 
manner it was easy to ascertain the carbonic acid excreted by the 
increase in weight of the tubes of caustic potash during the experiment. 

Lavoisier found that his Guinea pig, in ten hours, burned, on the 
average, 3.333 grams of carbon ; and this quantity of carbon he esti- 
mated, from other experiments, as capable of melting 32G.75 grams 
of ice at the freezing temperature. The same Guinea pig was then 
placed in an ice-calorimeter, and left in it for ten hours, during which 
time the heat of its body was found to have melted 402.27 grams of ice 
at the freezing temperature. 

If we use, instead of the coefficient of combustion of carbon employed 
by Lavoisier, that now generally adopted from the experiments of Favre 
and Silber maun,, the quantity of melted ice represented by 3^ grams of 
carbon would become 304.78 grams instead of 326.75 grams. We are, 
therefore, entitled to say that the heat of combustion of expired carbon 
determined by Lavoisier is equal to 

^^^ = 90.68 per cent. 
402.27 

of the animal heat developed, which is regarded as 100 parts. 

Two years later, in 1785, Lavoisier lai€l before the Royal Society of 
Medicine of Paris, an account of further experiments, also conducted on 
the breathing of Guinea pigs, by which he showed that of 100 parts of 
oxygen absorbed by those animals, 81 only reapi^eared in the form of 
carbonic acid, and 19 i^arts disappeared altogether. Lavoisier consid- 
ered that these 19 parts of oxygen were employed in the body in the 
combustion of hydrogen, the product of such combustion being water. 



RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 273 

If we use Lavoisier's data just given, and the known atomic weights 

of carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen, we shall have, for 81 parts of oxygen 

in the form of carbonic acid, and 19 parts of oxygen in the form of 

water, the following quantities of carbon and hydrogen consumed by 

the respiration of his Guinea pig in the same time : 

r^ u 6 X 81 , , 19 

Carbon = — ^ — ; hydrogen = -^ 

Multiplying these numbers by the heat-coeflScients of Favre and Sil- 
bermann, we find — 

Heat produced by carbon = ^-^1^ X 8080 

16 

19 
Heat produced by hydrogen = -_ x 34462 

8 

It has been already shown that the heat developed by the combustion 
of carbon in Lavoisier's experiment amounted to 90.68 per cent, of the 
heat emitted by the animal; hence the heat produced by the combustion 
of the hydrogen will amount to — 

90.68 X ^213^63 ^ 16 30.24 

8 6 X 81 X 8080 

By adding together the heats due to the carbon and hydrogen, we find 
that Lavoisier's experiments, when fairly interpreted by the data of 
modern science, give the following results : 
Heat produced by the combustion of carbon and hydrogen .... 120. 92 

Animal heat 100. 00 

Finally, in 1789, Lavoisier published further experiments, by which 
he showed conclusively that the consumption of oxygen by the body is 
notably increased by three causes — 

1. By a lowering of the external temperature. 

2. By the act of digestion. 

3. By muscular exercise. 

The experiments of Lavoisier were repeated in 1822 by Dulong and 
Despretz, and their results, when corrected, like those of Lavoisier, by 
using the modern heat-coefiicients of carbon and hydrogen, are as fol- 
lows: 

The mean of Dulong's experiments on sixteen animals and birds is 
90.6 per cent, of the animal heat given out ; the lowest number, 85.5, 
belonging to a kitten sixty days old ; and the highest number, 99.4, 
belonging to a puppy fifty days old. 

M. Despretz obtained an average of 92.3 from sixteen mammals and 
{ birds ; his highest number being 101.8, derived from an old female rab- 
bit; and his lowest number being 84.2, derived from four owls. 

The foregoing experiments left no doubt remaining in the minds of 
men of science as to the substantial truth of Lavoisier's doctrine of ani- 
mal heat; and led immediately to a number of supplementary experi- 
ments, among the most remarkable of which were those of Eegnault 
and Eeiset. 

18 S 



274 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE. 

Regnault directed liis attention especially to the distribution of the 
oxyft'eu absorbed by animals, between the carbon and hydrogeD of their 
blood or tissues, which had been laid down by Lavoisier in the propor- 
tion of 81 to 19. He found that the proportion was not a fixed one, but 
varied with the food in a very instructive manuer. 

The average of his experiments on fourteen aniuials, including worms, 
lizards, and insects, as well as birds and mammals, was — 

Oxygen combined with carbon 81. 7 

Oxygen combined with hydrogen. 19. 3 

a result nearly identical with that found by Lavoisier. The highest 
proportion of oxygen combined with hydrogen occurred in the case of 
chickens fed on meat, and amounted to 32 per cent.; and the lowest 
])roportion occurred in the case of rabbits fed on bread and oats, and 
amounted to 1 per cent. only. 

Still more recent experiments, made with improved apparatus and 
methods by Pettenkofer and Voit, in Munich, show, like those of Reg- 
nault, that the proportion of the oxygen employed in forming carbonic 
acid to the whole oxygen absorbed varies with the food, ranging in the 
case of a large dog from 52.4 to 148.2, according as the animal was kept 
altogether without food, or fed upon a mixed diet of meat and sugar. 
These investigations have also shown that, under ordinary conditions, 
it is probable that a dog consumes nearly all the oxygen absorbed in 
the formation of carbonic acid. 

Before leaving the subject of animal heat, it is worth while to estimate 
its amount in a manner that will bring it into comparison with ordinary 
mechanical work. 

In Lavoisier's experiment with the Guinea pig, 402.27 grams of ice 
were melted in ten hours; from this fact we find, assuming the latent 
heat of ice at 142° F., and 772 as Joule's coefficient for converting Brit- 
ish heat-imits into foot pounds, 

Mechanical icorlc-equivalent to the daily animal heat of Lavoisier'' s Guinea 
2ng = 

402.27 X 24 X 142 x 15.432 x 772 oooom i- ^^ i 
TOOinno ^ ^^^"^'^ foot-pounds. 

As the average weight of a Guinea pig is four joounds, the preceding 
amount of work, representing animal heat, would be suflScient to raise 
the weight of the animal through a vertical height of — 

233310 ^ , ^^ ., 
4 X 5280 

Eanke has shown, by experiments made upon himself, under various 
conditions of food and fasting, by means of Pettenkofer and Voit's appa- 
ratus, that his daily excretion of carbonic acid varied from 6G0 grams to 
860 grams, showing a mean of 760 grams. His weight was 67 kilograms, 
from which fact, and the assumption that an English mile is 1,600 meters, 
we obtain, employing the constants already given, the height through 



RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 275 

which the combustion of 700 grams of carbonic acid would raise the 
weight of 67 kilograms in 24 hours — 

= 760 X 6 X 8.080 x 423 _ ^^^^ ^^^^^ 
22 X 07 X 1000 
The extreme values of the carbonic acid excreted, viz, 660 grams and 
860 grams, would correspond to the heights of 5.74 miles and 7.48 miles, 
respectively. 

Dr. Edward Smith has estimated the daily excretion of carbon from 
the lungs, in the case of four persons, as follows : 

Body weiglit. Carbon. 

Mr. Moul 173 pounds. 6. 735 ounces. 

Dr. E. Smith 196 loounds. 7. 85 ounces. 

Prof Frankland 136 pounds. 5. 60 ounces. 

Dr. Murie 133 pounds. 6. 54 ounces. 

In order to convert the preceding data into vertical miles through, 
which the body weigut is lifted, we must multiply the ounces of carbon 
by the following coefflcient, and divide the product by the body weight : 

Coeff. = 8080x^x772 ^ ^^^^^^ 
16 X 5 X 5280 
log (coeff.) -: 2.1235473 
We thus obtain, for the heights through which the carbon consumed 
would lift the observers — 

Mr. Moul 5. 17 miles. 

Dr. E. Smith 5. 32 miles. 

Prof. Frankland 5. 47 miles. 

Dr. Murie 6. 53 miles. 

Pettenkofer and Voit succeeded in producing a range of carbonic acid 
excreted by a large dog, weighing 33.3 kilograms, from 289.4 grams to 
840.4 grams ; the minimum corresponding to the 10th day of fasting 
from solid food, and the maximum corresponding to a diet of 1,800 grams 
of meat, 350 grams of fat, and 1,410 gi'ams of water. 

It may be easily shown, by a calculation similar to the foregoing, that 
these excretions of carbonic acid correspond to the mechanical works of 
lifting the weight of the dog through vertical heights of 5.03 miles and 
14.62 miles, respectively. 

Combining together the preceding results, and expressing them all in 
the natural units of the weights of the animals lifted through a height, 
we find — 

Worii dve to animal heat. 

MAN. 

1. Dr. Ranke, (fastiug) 5. 74 miles. 

2. Dr. Eanke, (well fed) 7. 48 miles. 

3. Mr. Moul 5. 17 miles. 



276 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE. 

4. Dr. E. Smith 5. 32 miles. 

5. Prof. Frankland 5. 47 miles. 

6. Dr. Murie 6, 53 miles. 

Mean 5, 952 miles. 



This result agrees very closely with the calculation already made from 
760 grams of carbonic acid, in the case of Dr. Ranke, viz, 6.609 miles. 

WorJc due to animal heat. 

ANIMAX,S. 

1. Guinea i)ig 11. 05 milfs. 

2. Dog, (fasting) 5. 03 miles. 

3. Dog, (overfed) 14, 62 miles. 

Mean 10. 233 miles. 



SOI UCE OE MUSCULAR WORK. 

As soon as it was sal '.factorily established by Lavoisier and his suc- 
cessors that the natural combustion of carbon and hydrogen in the blood 
was sufhcient, or somev iiat more than sufficient, to account for the ani- 
mal heat, it became a l. itter of great interest to physiologists to ascer- 
tain, if possible, how mii;-li of the work developed in the blood by chem- 
ical changes is employed in producing animal heat, how much in 
mechanical work, external and internal, and how much in vital or mental 
operations. 

At the outset of this inquiry, it received a misdirection from the con- 
jecture thrown out by Liebig, that the excretion of nitrogen (in the form 
of urea) gave necessarily the measure of the wear and tear of the mus- 
cular tissues themselves, which are composed of proteinic or nitrogenous 
compounds. This conjecture led to Liebig's celebrated classification of 
food into heat-producing and flesh-forming foods, which has been unhes- 
itatingly received until lately, in this country, by physiologists and 
physicians. Before investigating the truth or falsehood of Liebig's 
theory, it is worth while to state the most recent results obtained as to 
the muscular work per day of which man is capable. 

From numerous observations, of which some were made by myself, on 
ihe daily labor of hodmen, paviors, navvies, and pedlars, I have obtained 
the following mean : 

Daily labor of man = 353.75 foot-tons = 109549 kilometers. 

This quantity of work is the exact equivalent of the work done by a 
man of 150 pounds weight in climbiug through one mile of vertical 
height, and is, as I have already shown, about one-sixth part of the 
work expended in producing and maintaining animal heat. 

I was led to believe, from investigations made to determine the quan- 



EELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 277 

tity of urea excreted in various diseases, that a certaiu minimum quan- 
tity, equivalent to 2 grains per pound of body weight, was excreted 
quite independently of muscular exertion, and I proved that death was 
preceded in many chronic diseases by a fall in the urea excreted to 2 
grains per pound. These investigations were made chiefly on patients 
dying of advanced kidney disease, in which the excretion of albumen 
had nearly or altogether ceased, and of patients dying of phthisis. 

Pettenkofer and Voit found that tiio excretion of urea in a dog reduced 
from 33.3 kilograms to 29 kilograms by 10 days' fast, became 8.6 grams. 
And, since — 

29 kilograms = 03.8 pounds. 

8.6 grams = 132.7 grains. 
Excretion of urea = 2.08 grains per pound of body weight. 

Eanke obtained a precisely similar reaalt from observations made upon 
himself, after long fasting, continued for several days. 

If these views be well founded, it is plain that part only of the urea 
excreted can be regarded as due to mnt:cular exertion, for 2 grains per 
pound (or 300 grains for a man weighing' 150 pounds) must be set aside 
as a constant due to vital work, independLiit of muscular work altogether. 
Hence it would follow, supposing the muscular exertion to be measured 
by the increased excretion of urea produced by it, that the urea will not 
increase as fast as the muscular exertion, but it ought to increase regu- 
larly, although at a slower rate. With a view to settle this important 
question, I devised the following observations upon myself in the month 
of July, 18G6, which j^rove conclusively that an increase of muscular 
exertion, amounting to fourfold, is not accompanied by any correspond- 
ing increase in the excretion of nitrogen in the form of urea. 

I had previously ascertained by repeated experiments, extending from 
1860 to 1865, that my excretion of urea (under ordinary conditions as to 
exercise, which never amounted to five miles per day) ranged from — 
465. 09 grains per day, to 
537. 47 grains per day. 



501. 28 mean. 



This quantity of urea I regarded as my natural physiological average, 
and it was so well established that I thought I should obtain an impor- 
tant result by comparing it with the average found from several days of unu- 
sual muscular exertion. I accordingly walked for five consecutive days 
in the hilly districts of Wicklow, noting carefully the horizontal distance 
traveled each day, and the vertical height traversed up and down. The 
vertical heights were reduced to horizontal distances, on the assumptions 
(which are well founded) that 20 is the proper coefficient for converting 
one into the other, and that the work of descent is half the work of 
ascent. 



278 ITS BEAEING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE. 

During the five days of observation the work done, expressed in hor- 
izontal miles of walking, was as follows : 

First day. 

Miles. 

Miles walked 11. 4 

Height ascended 1,800 feet = 10. 2 



21.6 



Second day. 

Miles walked 12. 

Height ascended 2,400 feet = 13. 7 



25. 



Third day. 

Miles walked 11 - (> 

Height ascended 1,400 feet = 8. 

19.6 

Fourth day. 

Miles walked 9. 3 

Height ascended 1,400 feet = 8. 

17.3 



Fifth day. 

Miles walked - 10. 4 

Height ascended 1,600 feet = 9. 1 



19.5 



From the preceding statement it follows that the average work doue 
each day was 20.74 miles of horizontal walking, the result of which upon 
the urea excreted was to be compared with the result already meutioiied 
as a physiological constant, determined under circumstances in which 
the daily muscular work never exceeded five miles of horizontal walking. 

In order to determine the urea, I collected each day all the urine passed, 
and kept one-fifth part of it; and at the close of the fifth day examined 
the mixture formed from the five days' urine. It was found to contain 
501.16 grains of urea per day — a result practically identical with the 
physiological quantity previously found by me under totally different 
conditions, viz, 501.28 grains. I was much surprised at this result, for 
I had previously believed in the theory laid down by Liebig, which at- 
tributed the excretion of urea to the disintegration of muscular tissue. 

It might be objected to the preceding reasoning that the combustion 
of proteinic compounds represented by 501.28 grains of urea ex(u-eted is 



RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 279 



actually sufficient to produce tlie meclianical force necessary to maintain 
the muscular exertion of walkiug 20 or 21 miles per day. 

1. The urea excreted bears to the proteine consumed the proportion 
of 24 to 79, as api)ears from their chemical compositions, viz : 

Urea C2 H4 X2 O2 ...... 60 

Proteine C36 H27 X4 On 395 

2. In 100 parts of proteine there are 53.7 parts of carbon, and 7 parts 
of hydrogen ; the total heat due to the combustion of 1 gram of pro- 
teine is, therefore. 

Heat-units. 

0. 537 gram of carbon 4. 3389 

0. 070 gram of hydrogen 2. 4123 



6. 7512 



This number, 6.7512, represents the maximum quantity of heat-units* 
that could be produced by the combustion of 1 gram of proteine ; but 
the term depending on hydrogen in it should be reduced to five-ninths 
of its amount, in consequence of the hydrogen already combined with 
oxygen in the proteine. Hence we find — 

Combustion of one gram of inoteine. 

Heat-units. 

Carbon 4. 3389 

Hydrogen 1. 3402 



5. 6791 



3. In 100 parts of urea there are 20 parts of carbon, and 6| parts of 
hydrogen ; the total heat, therefore, due to the combustion of 1 gram 
of urea is : 

Heat-units. 

0. 20 gram of carbon 1. 6160 

0. 067 gram of hydrogen 2. 3089 



3. 9249 



The term depending on hydrogen, in this result, should be reduced 
to one-half, in consequence of the hydrogen already combined with oxygen 
in the urea. 

Hence we find — 

Combustion of one gram of urea. 

Heat-units. 

Carbon 1. 6160 

Hydrogen , 1. 1544 



2. 7704 



* Heat-unit = 1 kilogram of water raised 1- C. 



280 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE. 

4. From the three i^receding statements it is easy to see that, for 
every gram of proteine consumed, 0.8416 heat units are contained in 
the urea excreted ; so that — 

The digestion of 1 gram of jproteinc gives out 4.8375 heat-units. 

It is easy to see that 501.28 grains of urea excreted correspond to 
1,050 grains of proteine in the food, or to 106.92 grams; and the total 
"work due to the digestion of this quantity of food mnj be found by mul- 
tiplying it by the '■'■digestiQn coefficient " already found, and by 423, which 
is Joule's coefficient for converting heat-units into kilogram-meters. 
Hence we have — 

Work due to production of 501.28 grains of urea 
= 100.92 X 4.8375 x 423 = 218786 kilogram-meters = 704 foot-tons. 

This amount of theoretical "work produced by nitrogenous food is 
double the work actually done during the walking excursion. 

The average work was 20.74 miles horizontal per day, which may be 
considered as the exact equivalent of lifting my weight (knapsack and 
clothes included = 150 pounds) through one mile of vertical height. 
Hence the work actually done by me was — 

l^iAi^= 354 foot-tons. 
2240 

This amount of muscular work accounted for almost exactly half the 
whole theoretical work supplied by the food that goes to form urea, viz, 
704 foot-tons. But it has been already shown that 2 grains of urea per 
pound of body weight is required to maintain the vital work, including 
circulation and respiration ; this would give (since I weighed 128 pounds) 
256 grains of urea required for vital work, or almost exactly half of the 
501.16 grains excreted, so that one-half of the available work might be 
considered as expended on vital work, and the other half as expended 
on external muscular work. This supposition, however, requires us 
to believe that the muscles act without loss by friction. This is not 
admissible, for I have elsewhere endeavored to show that there is a loss 
in the force applied by the muscles of various animals, in consequence 
of the frictiou of their tendons, amounting on the average, in man, to 35 
per cent., and in the mastiff, to 41 iJer cent. 

Hence it may be regarded as certain that the available force repre- 
wsented by 501 grains of urea is not sufficient to account fully both for 
vital work and for the external mechanical work expended by me during 
the experiments just described. 

The foregoing observations and calculations were made in the month 
of July, 1866, bat I did not then publish them, as I found afterward 
that I had been anticipated by Dr. Ficlc and Dr. Wislicenus, of Zurich, 
in a paper published in June in the Philosophical Magazine, on the urea 
excreted during an ascent of the Faulhorn. Professor Frankland, in a 
paper published in the same journal in September, 1866, corrected some 
erroneous reasoning that found its way into Fick and Wislicenus's 
paper, and further supplied, from direct experiment, the digestion coeffi- 



I 



EELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 281 

dent of proteine, which had been obtained by me from calculation. The 
actual value of this important constant was found by him to be — 
Actual value of digestion coefficient of proteine . . 4. 3155 
Calculated value 4. 8375 

My only object in now j^ublishing an account of the independent ex- 
periment and calculation made by myself is to coulirm the certainty of 
the important fact first proved experimentally by Fick and Wislicenus, 
that the force due to the urea excreted in a given time is not sufficient 
to provide the actual work that may be done by the muscles in the same 
time. 

Liebig and his followers, misled by a preconception of the simplicity 
of nature, assigned to nitrogenous food the duty of providing the force 
necessary for the production of muscular work, by supplying the waste 
of muscular tissue; while they supposed the farinaceous and fatty foods 
to provide the amount of animal heat required by the body. 

The opponents of Liebig have fallen into the opposite error, and deny 
that nitrogenous food contributes any portion of the force employed in 
muscular work. 

The truth, as is usual, lies between the two extreme hypotheses, and 
we are now compelled to admit that a given development of force, ex- 
pressed in animal heat, muscular work, and mental exertion, may be 
the effect of several, i)erhaps many, supposable supplies of digested 
food, farinaceous, saccharine, fatty, and albuminous. 

Just as a given algebraical function may be equated to a given con- 
stant, by the use of a certain definite number of values of its variable 
quantity, so may a given effect of work in the animal body be produced 
by certain definite though very different combinations of various kinds 
of food, the digestion of which follows each its own law, and develops 
its own amount of force. The number of roots in our equation of life 
increases the difficulty of solving it, but by no means permits the accept- 
ance of the lazy assumption that it is altogether insoluble, or reduces a 
sagacious guess to the level of the prophecy of a quaclr. 

Lavoisier supposed in his earlier investigations that animal heat was 
developed by the combustion of carbon and hydrogen in the lungs; just 
as in earlier times it was supposed lo be produced spontaneously in the 
heart, which was imagined to be so hot as even to burn the hand that 
should imprudently venture to touch it. 

Li like manner, Liebig and his followers supposed the muscular work 
to be developed in the substance itself of the muscles that were its in- 
struments. 

Both of these doctrines are now justly repudiated by physiologists^ 
and the view proposed in 1845, by Dr. Mayer, of Heilbronn, and recently 
developed with much ability l)y Mr. C. W. Heaton, of Charing Cross 
Hospital, in the Philosophical Magazine for May, 18G7, that the blood 
itself is the seat of all the chemical changes that develop force in the 



282 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE. 

body, has gained favor among physiological chemists, and also met with 
acceptance among practical clinical observers. 

Thus the human mind revolves in cycles, and the physicians of the 
nineteenth century arc preparing to sit at the feet of Moses, and learn 
that the blood of an animal really constitutes its life; while South Afri- 
can theologians are disposed to reject his authority, because he happened 
to confound a rodent with a ruminant.* 

Whatever be the kind of food employed, its effect in the production 
of force nnist be idtimately measured by the quantities of carbonic acid 
and water produced by its combustion, and there is no more convenient 
measure of the production both of carbonic acid and water than urea, 
so far as it goes. I shall i)rove shortly that every four grains of urea 
excreted represent five tons lifted through one foot; and I have shown 
by the preceding investigation that the work represented by urea is not 
sufficient to account for vital and external work, much less for animal 
heat. The investigations of Dr. Edward Smith, on the excretion of 
carbonic acid, enable us to show that the carbonic acid alone is siiflicien: 
to account for both vital and external work, and also for the production 
of animal heat. This may be proved as follows: 

Dr. Smith has given results, from which may be deduced the quanti- 
ties of carbonic acid excreted per minute during the four following 
conditions: 

1. Lying in the horizontal position, and nearly asleep. 

2. Fasting, and in sitting posture. 

3. Walking at two miles per hour. 

4. Walking at three miles per hour. 

5. Working on the tread-mill, ascending at the rate of 28.C5 feet per 
minute. 

Carbonic acid per min. 

1. Sleep and rest 5. 522 grains. 

2. Sitting 7. 440 grains. 

3. Walking at two miles per hour J8. 100 grains. 

4. Walking at three miles per hour 25. 830 grains. 

5. Tread-mill 44. 973 grains. 

The foregoing quantities of carbouic acid per minute may be converted 
into vertical miles i)er hour for the body weight, by multiplying them 
by the following coefficient :t 

60 X 6 X 8080 X 9 X 772 ^ ^ o'>5'>63 
22 X 190 X 5280 x 5 x 7000 

log = 2.40420 

*No reasonable person cau fail to perceive tlie ignorance of the great lawgiver who 
will apply to hi ui the test first proposed by Swift for Homer; Moses, like the author 
of the Iliad, was ])rofonndly unacquainted with the discipline and doctrines of the 
Church of England. 

t Dr. Edward Smith's weight was 196 pounds. 



Acid. 


Body v/eight lifted 
tlirough miles. 


grains. 


0.1400 mile. 


grains. 


0.1887 mile. 


grains. 


0.4591 mile. 


grains. 


0.G551 mile. 


grains. 


1.1406 mile. 



RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 283 

Performing this calculation we find — 

Carbonic 

1 5.522 

2 7.440 

3 18.100 

4 25.830 

5 44.973 

It is easy to calculate that the external work clone in the cases 3, 4, 
5, was as follows : 

External work. 

No. 3. Walking two miles per hour 0.1000 mile. 

No. 4. Walking three miles per hour 0.1500 mile. 

No. 5. Tread-mill - 0.3256 mile. 

Subtracting these amounts of work from the applied work, due to the 
production of carbonic acid, we find, as the quantities left for vital 
work, including circulation and respiration, and for the production of 

animal heat, per hour r 

Vital work and 
animal heat. 

No. 3 0.3591 mile. 

No. 4 0.5051 mile. 

No. 5 0.8150 mile. 

As I have already shown the work due to animal heat per day to be 
6 miles, it follows that the work of animal heat per hour is 0.2500 mile. 
Deducting this amount from the foregoing, we find for the vital work 
done, under the three different conditions — 

Vital work. 

No. 3. Walking at two miles per hour 0.1001 mile. 

No. 4. Walking at three miles per hour 0.2551 mile. 

No. 5. Tread-mill work 0.5650 mile. 

This result proves, in a striking manner, the great disadvantage under 
which an increased amount of muscular work is done in a given time; 
and it is quite in accordance with other results obtained by me from 
totally different experiments. 

No two classes of animals can well differ more from each other than the 
cats and ruminants, one of which is intended by nature to eat the other. 
They differ in all respects as to food, the cats requiring a supply of fresh 
meat and blood for their health, and the ruminants being exclusively 
vegetable-feeders; yet in both classes we find a great development of 
muscular powes, and of rapid action of muscles, qualities alike neces.'?ary 
to the pursuer and to the pursued. There can be no doubt that muscular 
work is developed in the cats from the combustion of flesh, and in the 
ruminants, maiidy, if not exclusively, from farinaceous food. It is, how- 
ever, worthy of remark, that the muscular qualities developed by the 
two kinds of food differ considerably from each other. The hunted deer 



284 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE. 

will outruu the leopard in a fair and open chase, because the work sup- 
plied to its muscles by the vegetable food is capable of being given out 
continuously for a long period of time; but in a sudden rush at a near 
distance, the leopard will infallibly overtake the deer, because its flesh- 
food stores up in the blood a reserve of force capable of being given out 
instantaneously in the form of exceedingly rapid muscular action. 

In conformity with this principle, we find among ourselves an instinc- 
tive preference given to farinaceous and fatty foods, or to nitrogenous 
foods, according as our occupations require a steady, long-continued, slow 
labor, or the exercise of sudden bursts of muscular labor continued for 
short periods. Thus chamois-hunters setting out for several day's chase 
provide themselves with bacon fat and sugar; the Lancashire laborers 
use flour and fat, in the form of apple-dumplings; while the red Indian 
ot' JSorth America almost transforms himself into a carnivore by the 
exclusive use of flesh-food; he sleeps as long and can fast as long as the 
puma and jaguar, and possesses stored up in his blood a reserve of force 
which enables him, like a cat, to hold his muscles for hours in a rigid 
posture, or to spring upon his prey, like a leopard leaping from a tree 
upon the back of an antelope. 

If the i)recediug view of the muscular qualities developed by the two 
kinds of food be correct, important inferences suggest themselves as to 
the food that should be employed in relation to several kinds of work. 
Of these inferences I shall select two examples : 

1. The nurses of one of our Dublin hospitals were formerly fed chiefly 
upon flesh food and beer, a diet that seemed well suited to their work in 
ordinary times, which was occasionally severe, but relieved by frequent 
intervals of complete rest. Upon the occasion of an epidemic of cholera, 
Avhen the hospital duties of the nurses became more constant, although 
on the whole not more laborious, they voluntarily asked for bacon fat 
and milk, as a change of diet from the flesh-meat and beer; this change 
was effected on two days in each week with the best results as to the 
health of the nurses, and as to their power of discharging the new kind 
of labor imposed upon them. 

2. I have been informed, on competent authority, that the health of 
the Cornish miners break down ultimately from failure of the action of 
the heart and its consequences, and not from the affection of the lungs 
called " miners' phthisis." The labor of the miner is peculiar, and his 
food appears to me badly suited to meet its requirements. At the close 
of a hard day's toil, the weary miner has to climb by vertical ladders 
through a height of 100 to 200 fathoms before he can reach his cottage, 
where he naturally looks for his food and sleep. This climbing of the 
ladders is performed hastily, almost as a gymnastic feat, and throws a 
heavy strain (amounting from one-eighth to one-quarter of the whole day's 
work) upon the muscles of the tired miner, during the half hour or hour 
that concludes his daily toil. A flesh-fed man (as a Red Indian) would 
run up the ladders like a cat, using the stores of force already in reserve 



RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 285 

in his blood; but the Cornish miner, who is fed chiefly npon dongh. and 
fat, finds himself greatly distressed by the climbing of the ladders — more 
so indeed than by the slower labor of quarrying in the mine. His heart, 
overstimulated by the rapid exertion of muscular work, beats more and 
more quickly in its efforts to oxidate the blood in the lungs, and so sup- 
ply the force required. Local congestion of the lung itself IVequently fol- 
lows, and lays the foundation for theafiection so graphically,though sadly, 
described by the miner at forty years of age, who tells you that " his other 
works are very good, but that he is beginning to leak in the valves." 

Were I a Cornish miner, and able to afford the luxury, I should train 
myself for the "ladder feat" by dining on half a pound of rare beefsteak 
and a glass of ale from one to two hours before commencing the ascent. 

The excretion of nitrogen by the cats and ruminants is very different, 
as might be expected from their food. 1 have ascertained that the urea 
discharged by a Bengal tiger and a sheep daily is as follows: 

Bengal tiger 4,375 grains of urea. 

Sheep ' 256 grains of urea. 

It is worthy of remark, and serves to throw light on the meaning of 
the excretion of nitrogen from the body, that causes but slightly con- 
nected with muscular exertion in ruminants increase amazingly the 
excretion of urea. Thus I have found the following excretion of urea from 
a ram during the rutting season: 

Earn, (rutting season) 1,493 grains of urea. 

This amounts to a sixfold increase of urea, which cannot possibly be 
accounted for by the food consumed at the time, but requires us to assume 
a certain storing u^) of force, represented by nitrogenous compounds, 
which has been going on for a considerable period previous to the rutting 
season. A similar and equally remarkable storing-up of phosphates and 
carbonates takes place, previous to the rutting season, in the rumi- 
nants that shed their horns, which, in the Cervus megaceros^ often weigh 
90 pounds. 

These remarkable phenomena remind us of the maxim of the wise 
Hippocrates, who recommends moderation in the use of the gifts of the 
Golden Venus as well as in those of Ceres and Bacchus : " liovm, mria, 
nord, vTTvor, acppoSia/a /lerpia," with which may be Compared its converse in the 
Latin jjroverb: ^^ Sine Cerere et Baccho, friget Venus;'''' or, as the old 
proverb says, "When the wolf comes in at the door, love flies out at the 
window." 

APPLICA^I'ION OF THEORY TO DISEASED CONDITIONS OF BODY. 

The relation of food to work, complicated enough in health, becomes 
more so in disease, and the problem to be solved by rational theory 
becomes still more difficult. I cannot attempt even to sketch an outline 
of this part of my subject considered in general, but shall content myself 
with asking your attention to three remarkable examples of disease which 



286 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE. 

illustrate the principles I have attempted to lay down. These diseases 
are — 

A. Typhus fever. 

B. Cholera asiatica. 
0. Diabetes mellitus. 

A. Typhus fever. — In typhus fever a prominent symptom is the remark- 
able elevation of temperature, accompanied by an increased excretion of 
urea and carbonic acid by the kidneys and lungs, indicating (as no food 
is taken) an increased morbid metamorphosis of the blood and tissues. 
The temperature commonly rises to 104° F., representing an increase of 
upward of 5° F. above the normal temperature. 

If we knew the cause of this increase of temperature, or, rather, of the 
increased metamorphosis of which it is the sign, we should know the 
cause of typhus fever, and learn to combat the disease on rational grounds. 
At present the cause is unknown, and, therefore, the physician is forced 
to treat the symptoms as they appear, instead of attacking the cause of 
the disease. Let us examine for a moment the terrible significance of 
the symptoms. 

Your patient lies for nine or ten days supine, fasting, subdelirious, 
the picture of weakness and helplessness, and yet this unhappy sufferer 
actually performs, day by day, an amount of work that might well be 
envied by the strongest laborer in our land. 

The natural temperature of the interior of the body is 100° F., while 
the temperature of the corresponding parts in typhus fever is at least 
105° F. This seems at first sight a small increase — only 5 per cent, of 
the whole — but it is in reality 2^ times as great as it appears, and 
actually amounts to 12J per cent., or one-eighth part of the total animal 
heat ; for the total quantity of heat given out by the heated body is pro- 
portional (from Newton's law of cooling) to the elevation of its tempera- 
ture above the temperature of equilibrium, toward which it tends. If 
we suppose this equilibrium temperature to be 60° F., then the quanti- 
ties of animal heat given out in typhus fever and in health will be in 
proportion of 45 to 40, showing that the animal heat of typhus exceeds 
that of health by one-eighth of its amount. 

We have already seen that the work due to animal heat would lift the 
body through a vertical height of six miles per day; and it thus appears 
that an additional amount of work, equivalent to the body lifted through 
nearly one mile per day, is spent in maintaining its temperature at fever 
heat. 

If you could place your fever patient at the bottom of a mine twice 
the depth of the deepest mine in the duchy of Cornwall, and compel the 
wretched sufferer to climb its ladders into open air, you would subject 
him to less torture, from muscular exertion, than that which he under- 
goes at the hand of nature, as he lies before you, helpless, tossing, and 
delirious, ou his fever couch. 

The treatment of this formidable disease in former times consisted of 



RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 287 

})urging', vomiting, and bleeding the patient, with the view of eliminating 
iia imaftiuary poison, and so helping nature to terminate the disease.* 

In modern times, thauk God, the i)hysieian either does not interfere 
ai all, or adopts the rational process of retarding- the disintegration of 
Ihe tissues consumed to supply the fever heat, by furnishing m their 
stead fuel, in the form of wine and beef-tea, sufficient to maintain the 
increase of temperature imperiously required.! This practice may be 
justly considered rational, because the condition of the circulation admits 
of its ap[)]ication ; and it is considered good, because it has been rewarded 
V. ith success in the hands of the skillful clinical physician. In concluding 
this sketch of the prominent symptom of typhus fever, and as an illus- 
tration of the eagerness with Avhich every possible combustible in the 
body is made use of, I may mention, on the high authority of Dr. Stokes, 
of Dublin, that the very urea excreted by the kidneys is not permitted 
to leave the body \«ithout first paying its tax to fever, by being burned 
into carbonate of ammonia, thus rendering the urine of an advanced case 
of bad typhus fever eminently alkaline. 

B. Asiatic cholera. — This remarkable disease presents, as every one 
knows, three distinct stages, viz : 

1. The premonitory stage of diarrhoea. 

2. The stage of collapse. 

3. The stage of consecutive fever. 

The stage of collapse exhibits the following symptoms : Vomiting or 
purging; muscular cramps; suppression of bile and urine; lowering of 



* i\ovao)V (pvaisc 'i-ri'poi. — EpiD. vi, Sect, v, 1. 

+ It is not iutendecl by this to assert that a high temperature, 104° to 108° F., must be 
maintained in order that the disease may terminate favorably, for the very contrary 
is the fact. The blood, in typhus, as in other pyrexies, is a liuid possessed of greater 
oxidizing power than it has in health; in consequence of this, an increased ujetamor- 
phosis of tissues takes place, accompanied, of course, by an elevation of temperature, 
which measures i)recisely the oxidizing power of the blood, and the risk to life in typhus 
is directly i)roportioual to the rise in temperature. The indications of the sphygmograph 
are similar to those of the thermometer, a "/(/7/ dicrotic" pulse corresponding to a tem- 
perature of 103° F., and the pulse of ^^ death agony," with the heart's first sound gone, 
corresponding to a temperature of 109° F. There is no case on record of recovery from 
a condition marked by such a iiulse and temperature. 

The effects of alcohol, administered in fever, when the temperature does not exceed 
105° F., are twofold — immediate and secondary. The immediate effect is to supjily a 
hydrocarbon to the blood, which is decomposed by it in preference to the body tissues. 
The secondary effect of alcohol is to change the blood itself, which thus loses its oxidiz- 
ing qualities ; in consequence of which the temperature falls, the hyperdicrotic character 
of the pulse disappears, and the destructive metamorphosis of the tissues becomes les- 
sened. The statement here given of the effects of alcohol given in tj'phus, to the exact 
amount required by the condition of the blood, in narcotic doses, is borne out by clinical 
observation, and is iudepeudent of any theory as to the cause of typhus. 

It is not at all improbable that the theory of contagious disease, that each such 
disease owes its existence to a special living organism and not to an organic poison, 
may ultimately prove to be correct. 



288 ITS BI-^ARING OX ilEDICAL PRACTICE. 

body temperature to 95'^ F. ; extreme prostration of strength; extremi- 
ties pulseless ; and face liippocratic. 

Wlien death occurs during collapse, the following symptoms are usually 
found on careful examination of the corpse : The temperature rises to 
103° F. ; the mnscles give out their characteristic susurrus CCC, and 
<ixhibit spontaneous movements; the whole train of symptoms prodncing 
the effect of a ghastly attempt at resurrectiou.* 

In this disease we have phenomena respecting animal heat the very 
reverse of those found in typhus fever; the body performing one vertical 
mile short of its daily work, instead of one mile in excess. The prostra- 
tion of strength resulting from this deficient combustion is so great that 
death is often caused by bringing the patient to hospital in a cab instead 
of upon a stretcher, by his walking up a dozen steps into his ward, and 
sometimes even fatal results have followed a sudden effort to sit np in 
bed to vomit. 

The rise of temperature after death, and the continuance of muscular 
susurrus and motion, tend to prove that the impeded circulation, which 
is the prominent symptom in cholera collapse, is due to constriction 
(probably vasomotor-nervous) of the capillaries, in consequence of which 
the muscles are deprived of their su})ply of freshly oxidized blood, the 
result of which is necessarilj- contraction and cramp, which produces the 
excessive agony that characterizes this disease. 

All authorities on cholera, whether their object be to "impede" or to 
*' assist" nature, are agreed that medicines, whether astringent or i)ur- 
gative, are not onlj' useless, but dangerous, in the stage of collapse. 

It is useless to give alcoholic fuel to restore the loss of animal heat, for 
there is no circulation to cause the oxidation of the hydrocarbons. 

It is equally useless and more dangerous to give opium, to check the 
remaining purging that exists; for if vomiting have ceased, your acetate 
of lead and opium pills lie as if in the stomach of a corpse, and at the 
termination of collapse, your patient enters upon the consecutive fever, 
with perhaps a dozen grains of opium in his stomach, placed there like 
an explosive shell by your ill-timed zeal, and rapidly jjasses into a coma- 
tose condition, from which he never for a moment rallies. His death is 
always accredited by the registrar to cholera morbus and not to opium. 

Purgatives and emeticst in cholera collapse effect the same object as 
opium, but with greater rapidity. In the stage of blue collapse, the 
chances of life and death are almost exactly equal, and the slightest 
additional loss of force turns the wavering beam on the side of death. 
The effects of a brisk purgative or emetic (if they act) upon a patient, 
unable to (;limb a dozen steps, or sit np for a quarter of an hour, without 

* It is startling, on making a post-mortem examination of a cholera patient alone and 
by candle-light, to witness, on the first free incision of the scalpel, the hand of the corpse 
rise slowly from its side and placed quietly across its breast. 

t When mustard is used, its conservative effects as a stimulant sometimes counteract 
its destructive effects as an emetic. 



RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 289 

fatal syncope, may be easily imagiued ; and the use of them cannot be 
justified by an}' arguments borrowed from light reason. 

A remarkable though transient improvement takes place in cholera 
collapse by the injection of warm water (brought to the specific gravity 
of serum by the addition of mineral salts) into the veins or bowels; the 
patient loses the cramps, feels that he is about to recover, speaks to his 
friends, and often transacts whatever business is necessary; but speedily 
falls back into collapse. The imi^rovemeut in his condition is altogether 
due to the temperature of the fluid injected, wljicli supplies for a brief 
l^eriod the deficient animal heat, permits a partial oxidation of the blood, 
restores the capillary circulation in the muscles and so destroys their 
cramp, and, by supplying the deficient work required, removes for the 
moment the fatal prostration of strength. Any one who has witnessed 
the remarkable eiiects of warm liquids thus injected in cholera collapse 
must feel that recovery would be certain if the improvement could by 
any possibility be made permanent. 

Our hopes for the future, as to the treatment of cholera, lie, as 1 
believe, in the direction of supplying to the body directly its lost animal 
heat. 1 have witnessed the happiest results from an injection of warm 
salt water into the bowels, assisted by hand friction of the surface with 
turpentine and chloroform, and the ai^ijlication of bags of hot salt along 
the spine ; in cases treated in this manner, we may expect to witness 
cessation of muscular crauq), restoration of perspiration to the skin, with 
increase of capillary circulation, and finally, to reward our efforts, a 
return of the excretions of mine and bile; when these reai>pear, all 
vomiting and purging cease, and our patient is almost cured. 

After recovery, the contrast between the cholera and fever patient is 
as great as it was during sickness. The fever patient has been over- 
worked for nine or fifteen days without a suitable supply of food, and 
when convalescent experiences a complete exhaustion of strength that 
lasts for many weeks. The cholera patient, on the other hand, has been 
prevented from working by constriction of the capilliiry vessels, caused 
by the absorption of the cholera poison,* and feels, on recovery, much 
like a man that has been half drowned, while the fever patient resembles 
a man that has been half starved ; the one is able to return to his work 
in the course of a few days, the other only after the lapse of as many 
weeks. 

There are two popular superstitions prevalent among medical men 
respecting nature, which yearly slaughter hecatombs of victims, viz, 
that nature is simple in her operations, and beneficent in her intentions; 
she is often both simi)le and beneficent, but at other times she is un- 
questionably both complex antl malevolent. 

An Egyptian fable informs us that the votaries of goddess Nature 
were divided in opinion as to whether she was transcendentl}' beautiful 



* Whatever this may be, its period of incubation is 49 hours; that of strychnine is 22 
minutes. in o 



290 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE. 

or hideously ugly; and that, iu order to keep up this dilYerence of opinion 
which suits her i^urpose, she always wears a thick veil over her face. 

"For, with a veil that wimpled everywhere, 
Her head aud face were hid, that mote to none appear; 
That some do say was so by skill devised, 
To hide the terror of her uncouth line 
From mortal eyes that should be sore agrised; 
For that lier face did like a lion show. 
That eye of wight could not endure to view ; 
But others tell that it so beauteous was, 
And round about such beams of splendor threw, 
That it the sun a thousand times did pass. 
Nor could be seen but like an imago iu a glass." 

Before trusting- nature in the matter of cholera, and proceeding to 
help her, it would be well to inquire whether she intends to cure the 
patient by her evacuations or to pat him into his cofBn. For myself, I 
greatly mistrust her, and would wish to ask, previous to assisting her, 
whether she is really my mother or only my stepmother. Our experience 
in Dublin has shown that no more effectual mode of shortening life could 
be devised in cholera than the " eliminant" treatment; and it was accord- 
ingly abandoned as soon as tried in that city. 

It is much to be regretted that an authority so deservedly held in 
high repute as that of Sir Thomas Watson can be now quoted in favor 
of the treatment of cholera, by the maxim, similia similihus curanfur. 
So far as Dr. Watson has informed us, his change of opinion rests upon 
the statements of others, and not upon his own experience. He has 
suddenly become an advocate of the castor oil, rhubarb, calomel, and 
eliminant treatment of cholera, and writes as follows: 

" When I last spoke on this subject in these lectures, I stated that 
the few recoveries which I had witnessed had all taken i^lace under large 
and repeated doses of calomel, but I could not venture to affirm that the 
calomel cured them. At present I am much disposed to believe that by 
its cleansing action the calomel may have helped the recovery; and after 
all that I have since seen, heard, read, and thought upon the matter, I 
must contess that in the event of my having again to deal with the dis- 
order, I should feel bound to adopt, in its generality, the evacuaut theory 
and practice." 

Sir Thomas Watson omits to add that the cases here referred to 
were only six in number, of whom three died aud tliree recovered, 
which is exactly what might have been expected if he had not interfered 
at all. 

Cholera from Bengal visits these islands at intervals of about seven- 
teen years, and it is much to be feared that on its next outbreak hun- 
dreds of patients will be sacrificed, in obedience to the dogma that 
asserts it to be our duty to assist nature. 

C Diabetes meUitus. — This disease furnishes us with one of our best 
proofs that all the chemical changes, by means of which work is pro- 
duced, take place in the blood and not in the tissues of the body: and. 



EELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 291 

at the same time, an examination of its plienomena explains satisfactorily 
the regimen and diet which has been found, by experience, most suitable 
to the diabetic patient. I shall illustrate the disease by a case which 
was placed under my control by Dr. Stokes some years ago. 

A youug- man (fet. 20) named Murphy suffered from fever (enteric?) 
in November, 1859, and on recoveriug became diabetic; he was admit- 
ted iuto the Meath Hospital in October, 18G0, where he remained under 
my observation until his death, on the llith January, ISGl. 

He was allowed, for nine weeks, to eat as much as he liked of certain 
kinds of food, which were varied, week by week, to suit his wants, my 
object being to obtain, if possible, the natural constants of the disease, 
undisturbed by external interference 5 the only medicine used by Dr. 
Stokes's order being opium, to produce sleep, and a little creosote occa- 
sionally, to promote digestion. As the details of this experiment have 
been fully published, I shall couline myself to the final results. His 
food and excretions were analyzed from week to week, so as to determine 
the total quantities of sugar-forming and urea-producing food, as well 
as the sngar and urea actually excreted. 

During six of the nine weeks, the sugar excreted was in excess of the 
sugar ingested; and the means of the T<'hole nine weeks' daily excretion 
and ingestion of sugar were — 

Grains. 

Sugar excreted 9, 773 

Sugar ingested 9, 321 

Difference 452 



During two of the nine weeks of observation, the urea excreted was 
in excess of the urea ingested ; and the means of the whole nine weeks' 
daily excretion and ingestion of urea were — 

Grains. 

Urea excreted - 1, 182 

Urea ingested 1, 349 

The foregoing facts illustrate strikingly one of tbe prominent sj'mptoms 
of diabetes, viz, the canine appetite ; the quantity both of sugar-pro- 
ducing and urea-forming food consumed is more than double what is 
necessary to maintain a vigorous laborer in perfect health. An exami- 
nation of the excretions ex[)lains the other prominent symptom of dia- 
betes, viz, the comi)lete prostration of strength in the i")atient, notwith- 
standing the great amount of food consumed. 

In a state of health, food produces three excretions only, viz, urea, 
carbonic acid, and water; in diabetes, the farinaceous foods appear in 
the excretions as sugar, and not as carbonic acid and water; and the 
work necessary to maintain animal heat must be provided altogether at 
the expense of flesh food, which is the very form of food least fitted to 
maintain it. 



292 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE. 

The diabetic patient resembles a racing steamboat on the Mississippi 
whose supply of coals is exhausted, and whose cargo furnishes nothing 
better than lean pork hams to throw into the furnace to maintain the 
race. It cannot be wondered at that our poor jiatient, under such dis- 
advantageous conditions, fails to keep in the front. 

Let us compare together the minimum of work necessary to keep 
Owen Murphy alive, with the work actually sui^plied to him by the food 
digested. 

1. I have already stated that Dr. Rauke found GGO grams of carbonic 
acid excreted daily, in the extreme fasting condition, when he weighed 
67 kilograms. Now, since — 

GGO grams = 10185.35 grains, 

G7 kilograms ^ 147.71 pounds, 
we find GO grains i^er pound of body weight as the minimum excretion 
of carbonic acid consistent with continued life. 

This quantity of carbonic acid rei)resents a work generated by its 
production that would lift its corresponding pound of body weight 
through a height of^ — 

G9 X — X 8080 X - X ,= "^ = 5.71G miles. 

'Z'2 5 7000 X 5280 

Under ordinary conditions, the greater part of this carbonic acid and 
work is produced bj' the digestion of farinaceous food ; but since, as we 
have seen, the farinaceous food is excreted as sugar in the diabetic 
patient, and, therefore, does no work at all, the whole of the foregoing 
work must be done by the digestion of other kinds of food. 

I have already shown that it follows, from Lavoisier's experiments, 
(confirmed in a remarkable manner by those of Regnault,) that the work 
done by the combustion of carbon in the body is to the work done by 
the combustion of hydrogen in the proportion of 9068 to 3024, almost 
exactly 3 to 1 ; hence we have the work done by Owen Murphy,' as a 
minimum in health — 

Miles. 

Due to carbon 5. 7 16 

Due to hydrogen 1. 905 



7. 621 



This result is somewhat in excess of the truth, for the same reason 
that the calculated digestion coefficient of proteine is in excess of that 
found by Frankhind from experiment; for the combustion coefficients of 
carbon and hydrogen in organic compounds are slightly less than when 
free. If we are permitted to reduce 7.621 miles in the same proportion 
as in the digestion of proteine, viz, 48 to 43, we shall find — 

Owen Murphy minimum of work consists of body weight lifted through 
6.83 miles. 

Let us now compare this minimum with the work actually performed 



RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND 293 

by Mm wlien suffering from diabetes, by the digestion of flesh food and 
production of urea. 

2. I have ah^eady shown that the work produced by the formation of 
501.28 grains of urea is 704 foot-tons by calculation from the composition 
of proteine and urea. This result should be reduced in the proportion 
of 48375 to 43155, in order to obtain the work given by Professor Frank- 
laud's experiments. Making this reduction, we find that 500 grains of 
urea correspond to G2G.3 foot-tons of work, or 100 grains urea to 125.2G 
foot-tons; or, in other words, every four grains of urea excreted correspond 
to five tons lifted through one foot. 

Owen Murphy excreted, on an average, 1,182 grains of urea daily 

during nine weeks, which, by the foregoing rule, are equal to — 

1475 foot-tons = Murphy x x 

where x represents in miles the height through which the patient could 

be lifted by the work done per day, and is equal to — 

1475 X 2240 ^ po ., 

^=7771-^. F-TTTi = 6.G9 miles. 

93.00 X 5280 

This result is almost exactly equal to that already found as the min- 
imum consistent with continued life, and explains in the most satisfactory 
manner the complete prostration of the patient, notwithstanding the con- 
sumption and digestion of more than double the usual quantity of flesh 
food. 

In corroboration of the foregoing conclusion, I may mention that 
Murphy's temperature was found to be constantly 2° F. below that of 
other patients (chronic) placed in the same ward, and, in other respects, 
under similar conditions. 

His unfavorable symptoms (so long as his powers of digestion were 
not impaired) were invariably alleviated by the free use of flesh food 
and fat, the latter being instinctively preferred by him ; so much so, 
that during the delirium that preceded his death for twenty-four hours, 
he raved incessantly about "fat, roasted fat, which the angels of heaven 
were preparing for him." 

I have studied many other cases of diabetes mellitus^ and found similar 
results in all; but I feel it to be unnecessary to describe them, as one 
well-ascertained train of phenomena, carefully observed and recorded, 
is quite sufficient to establish the order of nature. 

CONCLUSION. 

I have, now, Mr. President and gentlemen, to apologize for the length 
of time during which I have spoken, and to thank you for the patience 
with which you have listened to me. I am well aware how much I am 
indebted to your kindness, for I labored under two serious disadvantages 
in addressing you — in the first place, 1 had undertaken a task beyond 
my strength; and again, my address is made shortly after you had, 
like myself, been charmed and instructed by the luminous, learned, and 



294 ITS BEARING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE. 

eloquent oration of Professor RoUeston. I felt confident, however, that 
I i)0ssessed one advantage that he did not; I was a stranger in Oxford, 
and believed that my faults in matter and st3ie would be leniently criti- 
cised ; in this expectation, I am happy to say I am not disappointed ; 
and again I thank yon for your kindness. Two other advantages I share 
with him, which have contributed to his address as much as to my own — 
a profound respect and reverence for all honest laborers in search of truth, 
whether they have preceded us by twenty years or by two thousand 
years; and an unwavering confidence and faith in the future that lie ;i 
before the science of medicine. We traverse a sea mapped with imper- 
fect charts, but assured of a safe guide in our compass and stars; but 
Ave cannot afford to neglect a single rock or shoal, buoyed for us by the 
skill and care of those that have preceded us. Let us follow their 
example, and mark with conscientious care, for our successors, the dan- 
gers v\e ourselves discover and escape. 

Assembled, as we are, within the halls of the University of Oxford, 
the center and heart of all that is intellectual and religious in the life 
of England — a university that borrows its accurate logic, as well as 
its refined ethics, from the lips of Aristotle; that reverences Euclid as 
the fountain and source of its elegant geometr}^; and sits at the feet of 
Homer, Pindar, and Eschylus, to learn its poetry- — we need not fear that 
Hippocrates and Galen will ever want admirers and students; but the 
Oxford of to-day has taught us, what many did not anticipate, that she 
is equally ready and skillful, as she has proved herself to be in cultivat- 
ing literature, to devote her vast intellectual energies to the encour- 
agement and development of the natural sciences, based upon the solid 
and only permanent foundation of mathematical research. Tlie efforts 
made within the last few years by Oxford to encourage within her walls 
the mathematical and natural sciences, have won for her the respect, 
and wanned toward her the hearts, of all that search for truth in the 
study of nature. Our brothers in Oxford, like the Athenians at Syra- 
cuse, have gone on board the fleet, while we watch them from the shore, 
sympathizing in the sea-fight; as they win, we shout; when they fail, 
we weep. 

Long may the union of the far distant, but never to be forgotten, past, 
with the living present, that now exists in Oxford, continue. No science, 
no profession, can benefit so much by it as that of medicine. 



HYDROGEN AS A GAS AND AS A METAL. 



By Dr. J. E.mersox Eeyxolds. 



Notes of a lecture delivered in the tlieater of the Eoijal Dublin Society. 

When the programme of this course of lectures was published, it 
became evident that the subject of the present one was, by a singular co- 
incidence, closely connected with that of two of the earlier lectures of 
the series. I refer to the discourse of Mr. Stoney on " Meteoric Show- 
ers," and of Professor Ball on " Xebulfe." In the latter lecture, we 
learned that.manj' of the thin mists observable in the heavens are not 
star clusters, as they were long supposed to be, but are enormous masses 
of gaseous matter in a state of intense ignition. The examination of 
the light emitted by these nebulte enables us to state with certainty that 
at least one elementary bodj' well known upon this earth is present 
in all of them as a principal constituent, and that element is one ^vhich 
chemists call hydrogen. In Mr. Stoney's lecture on " Meteoric Showers," 
he pointed out that some of these strange visitors to our globe, the me- 
teoric stones, are found to contain pent up within them a certain gas, 
which gas has been shown by analysis to be hydrogen. We find, then, 
this hydrogen in enormous quantities throughout space, and at so great 
a distance from our planet that the human mind is unable to appreciate 
the interval which separates us from even the nearest of those mighty 
gaseous oceans. Again, we find this hydrogen carried to our planet by 
those strange wanderers of interstellar space, the meteors. And, tinally, 
we have it on this earth, not in the free state, it is true, but as an essen- 
tial constituent of one of the most imjiortant components of this globe, 
viz, water. 

Our object in this lecture, then, is to study this remarkable element, 
hydrogen, as we meet with it here, to determine some of its chief prop- 
erties, and to ascertain its nature. 

It has been already said that our chief storehouse of hydrogen on 
this earth is water, but we find it in many other well-known bodies; for 
instance, in the dreaded " tire-damp" of our coal mines we have the hy- 
drogen combined with another element, carbon. Again, common coal- 
gas contains a large proportion of hydrogen ; and I have only to men- 
tion that this same body is an essential constituent of the bread we eat, 
the sugar we mix with our tea, the clothes we wear, of our tlesh and 
blood too, in order to show that this is one of the most widely diffused 
of that class of bodies known to chemists as elementary Ibrms of mat- 
ter. But though we find hydrogen in all the substances mentioned just 



296 HYDROGEN AS A GAS AND AS A METAL. 

now, and in many more besides, for the purpose of the present lecture 
we shall confine our attention to one of its most remarkable and widely 
diffused compounds, viz, water. 

Water, in whatever condition we find it in nature, whether solid, liquid, 
or gaseous, (as steam,) is a compound body, being made up of two sim 
pie forms of matter — the one called oxygen, the principal constituent 
of the air we breathe, and the otlier hydrogen. Chemists are acquainted 
with several modes of breaking up the compound water into its two 
elementary components ; but one of the most convenient methods we 
can employ for effecting this analysis of water is to make electricity 
tear asunder its two constituents. When water is made part of a gal- 
vanic circuit, by plunging the two poles of a galvanic battery into a 
vessel of the liquid, we find that bubl>]es of gas are evolved at eacli 
pole. By a very simple arrangement, we can collect the gases given 
off at each terminal of the battery, and we then find, on testing the 
products, that two colorless gases are obtained, possessing widely dif- 
ferent properties. We observe that the gas liberated at the end of the 
wire connected with the platinum plate of the galvanic battery (the 
positive pole) is colorless, heavier than atmospheric air ; and tliat when 
a glowing wooden match is dipped into a vessel filled with the gas, the 
wood burns with great brilliance, though the gas does not itself take 
fire. This peculiar gas is therefore a powerful supporter of combustion, 
though incombustible itself, and is called oxygen. We now turn our 
attention to the gas given off at the negative pole of the battery, i. <?., 
at that connected with the zinc plate. This is also found to be a color- 
less gas, but very much lighter than air, and incapable of supporting 
the combustion of a burning taper plunged into it ; but though not a sup- 
porter of combustion in the ordinary sense of the term, it possesses the 
remarkable property of burning itself with a pale lambent blue flame. 
This is the gas hydrogen — the remarkable body whose chief properties 
we have now more especially to study. 

[Other modes of liberating hydrogen from water were shown, and the 
leading properties of the gas demonstrated.] 

When hydrogen burns in air, its sole product of combustion is water ; 
hence the name of this remarkable substance, signifying " water-pro- 
ducer." But oxygen and hydrogen can also be made to combine and 
produce water when i)resented to each other in conditione nasccnti, or at 
the moment of liberation from other forms of combination. The im- 
portance of knowing this fact will be apparent further on. 

The beautiful researches of the late Professor Faraday have made us 
familiar with the fact that manj^ of the gases known to chemists are 
merely the vapors of extremely volatile liquids ; for, on subjecting 
these gases to very great pressure and to intense cold, in many cases 
liquids are obtained and even solids, which, on removal of the pressure 
under which they were produced, resume the gaseous condition at ordi- 
nary temperature. Hydrogen has been likewise subjected by the learned 



HYDROGEN AS A GAS AND AS A METAL. 297 

Dr. Andrews, of Belfast, to enormous pressures, and to extremely low 
temperatures, but without exhibiting- the slightest tendency to conden- 
sation. Hence it has generally been considered a permanent gas ; but 
recent investigations, conducted by the master of the British Mint, the 
learned and distinguished Protessor Graham, tend strongly to show 
that hydrogen gas, as we meet with it under ordinary circumstances, is 
really the vapor of a highlj/ volatile metal. 

It may be now generally stated that when a solution containing a 
metal and a non-metallic body is decomposed by a galvanic current, the 
metal is usually deposited on the negative pole, and the non- metallic 
body on the positive electrode. If, for instance, we take a solution of 
common blue vitriol, or sulphate of copper, and plunge the poles of a 
battery into the liquid, we find that immediately metallic copper is depos- 
ited on the wire forming the iie(jative pole, while the sulphuric acid (a 
non-metallic body) appears at the positive end. If now we plunge the 
two poles into plain water, which, as we have already seen, is a com- 
l)ound of hydrogen and oxygen only, the hydrogen appears at the negative 
pole and the oxygen at the opposite one. We learn, then, in applying 
the galvanic test, that hydrogen arrays itself on the side of metals, and 
this fact is completely in accord with the view of its nature referred to 
above. 

Again, it is a well-known fact that metals are capable of uniting with 
each other so as to form compounds called alloys ; thus, brass is an alloy 
resulting from the fusion of the two metals copper and zinc in suit- 
able proportions. But it is not always necessary that the two metals 
should be heated together in order to make them combine ; for, if we 
take a slip of gold and plunge it into some of the liquid metal, 
mercury, or quicksilver, as it is called, the gold and mercury combine 
with each other to form an alloy or " amalgam," possessing a strong 
metallic luster. To go just one step further : if we convert this metal, 
mercury, into a colorless, invisible gas, which we can do by applying 
sufficient heat, and if into a vessel filled with this mercury gas we 
plunge a slip of gold, we find that the two metals combine or amalga- 
mate nearly as easily as under ordinary circumstances. If, then, "we 
can accomplish so much with the mercury gas, whose metallic nature is 
certain, why may we not make hydrogen gas alloy with some metal also ? 

By the very beautiful and interesting discovery that certain metals 
possess the power of absorbing enormous quantities of hydrogen with- 
out loss of metallic appearance, Professor Graham has greatly strength- 
ened the evidence in favor of the metallic nature of hydrogen, and has 
even gone so far as to calculate the density of the metal, which he calls 
"hydrogeniura." 

Professor Graham found that certain metals — palladium and platinum 
more i:)articularly — possess the extraordinary power of absorbing large 
volumes of hydrogen gas, and retaining it in some kind of combination. 
In order to demonstrate this, it is only necessary to take a plate of pal- 



298 



HYDKOGEN AS A GAS AND AS A METAL, 



ladmm foil, and, liaviug- coimectcd it by a wire with the zinc end of a 
galvanic cell, to immerse the plate in acidulated water, the positive pole 
being connected with a plate of platinum likewise immersed in the liquid, 
hydrogen is immediately set free at the palladium surface, and oxygen 
at the i)latinum end. The latter gas is given oli in bubl)les from the 
platinum, whereas the hydrogen is absorbed by the palladium. 

The palladium is capable of thus absorbing about nine hundred times 
its volume of hydrogen, and this enormous absorption or condensation of 
hydrogen witbin the pores of the metal takes place without any mate- 
rial alteration in the color of the palladium, the latter retaining its metallic 
apxiearance. This, among other circumstances, induced Professor Graham 
to regard the charged palladium as being a true alloy of palladium with 
the metal hydrogenium ; for it has been found, that when two metals 
unite, the compound resulting retains the characters of a metal, whereas 
this is not the case when a metal and a non-metallic body combine. In 
order to exhibit this absorption on a large scale, I have arranged the 
following experiments : 





Pig-.l 



A small glass cell is partially filled with v,-ater, slightly acidulated v.ith 
sulphuric acid. Into this water a bar of metallic tin is dipped; this bar 
is of the size shown at T, Fig. 1, and is supported in a horizontal 
position by means of a varnished wire clamped to the side of the glass 
cell with the aid of a binding-screw. Having secured T in its position, 
we now take a slip of rather .stout ])alladinmfoil, about four inches long, 
and a quarter of an inch wide, and coil it as shown at P ; to the end 
within the spiral is now attached a fine fiber of glass by means of a 
minute quantity of cement, and this is so adjusted that the glass shall 
act as a needle-indicator, as shown in the diagram. The palladium is 
then attached to the edge of the glass cell by means of a binding-screw 
and varnished wire. When the cell, so arranged, is placed at D, Fig. 
2,* the image is projected on the screen, as in Fig. 1. 

* This projection miiy bo iiiostcouveuieiitlye£fcctecl by means of the appar<atiis shown 
in section at Fi^. 2, and which was arranged for mo by Mr. Yeates, of Dnblin. At A wo 
have the front of a lantern with the object-glasses removed, the light oxyhydrogeu, 
oxycalcinm, or any other, having to pass only through the condensers. After passing 
the condensers, the rays fall on an ordinary mirror, E, suitably inclined to the beam of 



HYDROGEN AS A GAS AND AS A METAL. Z\}\) 

Witlioiit disturbiug the apparatus, we now connect, by means of the 
binding-screw and a copper wire, the palladinra spiral with the zinc 
phite of a galvanic battery — one or two cells are sufficient — and the tin 
rod is connected with the opposite plate of the battery. Innnediately 
on making contact, the water is decomposed by the electric current, hy- 
drogen being liberated at the surface of the palladium, and oxygen on 
the tin. The latter gas is set free in bubbles, but the hydrogen, instead 
of being liberated in the gaseous form, is absorbed by the palladium ; 
the volume of the metal is thereby increased, and the coil opens out as 
if endued with vitality. In doing this the glass needle is made to travel 
over several feet on the screen, and assumes the i)osition represented by 
the dotted line b. 

In this way we are able easily to show the expansion of the ptilladiuui 
then charged with hydrogen : but it is obvious that, on the removal of 
the hydrogen, the needle should return to its original position. lu 
order to take away the hydrogen from the palladium, we have simply to 
reverse the poles of the battery ; that is to say, we now connect the tin 
bar with the negative wire, and the palladium with the other pole. 
Now, on passing the current, oxygen is set free at the surface of the 
palladium spiral, and hydrogen on the tin. The oxygen, liberated in 
Juxtaposition with the b^'drogenized palladium, unites with the hydro- 
gen, and forms water, no material amount of oxygen appearing at the 
surface of the palladium until all the hydrogen has been removed from 
the latter. 

If we v/atch the effect of the change produced in this way on the 
screen, we fiud that, according as the hydrogen is removed from the 
palladium, the needle begins to move from the position it assumed at Z>, 
when the spiral was charged with hydrogen, or alloyed with hydro- 
genium, if we prefer the term, until it returns to the starting-point a. 
Instciid of resting there, as it ought to do, however, it ti-avels on steadily 
until it reaches the position c; thus demonstrating the singular fact 
that the contraction of the palladium on losing its charge of hydrogen 
is double the amount of its previous expansion. Proiessor Graham 
accounts for this singular phenomenon by supposing that the particles 
of the metal slide over each other in a lateral direction, so that the band 
of the palladium is unusually shortened, though its density is not in- 
light, so that tho latter may be reflected iu a vertical diroctiou, as indicated by the 
dotted Hue. Immediately above this mirror is placed on a wooden support the flat 
glass cell D, about an inch in depth, and of any required size. Above this vessel is 
placed a double convex leus, E ; the height at which this must be placed above D will 
depend on the focus of the lens, aud is readily fouud by ascertaining tho point at 
which the image of the object placed iu D is most clearly defined on the screen. The 
rays reflected from the first mirror, B, and having passed through D and E, now fall 
on a second mirror, C, by which means they are projected on to the screen, aud, when 
the focus is properly adjusted by shifting E, a well-defined image of any object placed 
at D is shown erect on the sheet. 



300 HYDROGEN AS A GAS AND AS A METAL. 

creased, since reduction in length is accoinj^auied by a proportional 
increase in other dimensions. 

It is found that this palladium foil charged with hydrogen possesses 
most powerful reducing properties ; that the hydrogen within it is just 
as capable of reducing silver salts as a metallic layer of zinc would be. 
As illustrating this point, we may cite an experiment : A plate of pal- 
ladium foil was cliarged with hydrogen, as above described, and then 
immersed in a solution of corrosive sublimate ; almost immediately a 
white precipitate of calomel made its appearance, and, when the action 
I)roceeded a little further, mercury was reduced. On repeating this 
experiment with a slightly alkaline solution of nitrate of silver, the 
metal was quickly thrown down on the palladium plate, and, when an 
alkaline solution of gold was used, the metal was likewise precipitited. 
These j)recipitates were obtained under circumstances in which the ordi- 
nary hydrogen gas or palladium foil alone would have been quite inca- 
pable of effecting reduction. 

We have already seen that hydrogen can be liberated from tlie charged 
palladium by presenting to it oxygen m conditione na.scenti, but it can 
also be set free by heat, or by reduction of the pressure of the atmo- 
sphere surrounding the charged plate. If a palladium wire be made to 
absorb as much hydrogen as it can take up, and if the tip of the wire 
be heated in the flame of a spirit-lamp, hydrogen gas is liberated, and 
burns on the surface of the palladium, the flame continuing until all the 
gas has been set free. Again, if a similarly charged wire be placed 
under the receiver of an air-pump and tbe air exhausted, the hydrogen 
is completely liberated in its ordinary gaseous condition. 

In order to complete this account of hydrogenium, it is only neces- 
sary to mention that its density is stated to be nearly 2, or about equal 
to the specific gravity of the metal magnesium ; but the means by which 
Professor Graham has arrived at this result, though very ingenious, are 
so unsatisfactory that we must take this estimate as being a mere ap- 
proximation to the truth. In all probability we must wait for the accu- 
rate determination of the specific gravity of hydrogenium until the metal 
itself will have been isohited in a pure condition. 

Thus, in the course of this lecture, we have liberated hydrogen, " as 
a ^a.s'," from water, and in this condition have studied some of its proper- 
ties. Again, we have made this remarkable element alloy itself with 
palladium ; and when thus appearing in the guise of " a metal," we have 
noted the chief phenomena it gives rise to. And now, like the bird 
from its cage, we will set free this hydrogen from its prison-house of 
palladium, and let it mingle with the mighty aerial ocean in which we 
live and move. 



A LECTURE OX THE IDEXTIFICiTIOX OF THE ARTISAX AXD ARTIST. 



By Cardinal Wisem.vx. 



[In the spring of 1852 an association was formed by the Catholics of Manchester and 
Salford, in England, to raise funds for the education of the poor. The committee, in 
aid of this purpose, invited Cardinal Wiseman to deliver an address npou some literary 
subject of general popular interest. The invitation was accepted, and the following 
admirable address, for a copy of which wo are indebted to a friend, was delivered in the 
Corn Exchange, Manchester. We have thought that a more general diffusion of it 
would be acceptable to those who are interested in the establishment of schools of art 
in this country, and accordingly have given it a place in this report. — J. H.] 

Ladies and Gentlemen: I ought certainly to commence my address 
to you by thanking you for the extremely kind manner in which you 
have been pleased to receive me; but I feel that I must not waste your 
time in mere expressions of a personal character, feeling rather that I 
shall have to tax your time and your attention to a considerable extent. 
I will, therefore, enter at once upon the proposed subject of my address, 
which has already been communicated to j'ou by my old and excellent 
friend, the Bishop of Salford. And I am sure I need not say, for he 
already has well expressed it to you, that it is a topic which at the mo- 
ment has engaged its full share of public attention, as drawing to itself 
the interest of all the educated classes, and it is in fact a topic connected 
with important questions, the solution of which may have to exert an 
important influence not only on our social but likewise on our moral 
progress. 

The topic on Vvdiicli I have to address you, then, is the connection 

OR RELATION BETWEEN THE ARTS OF PRODUCTION AND THE ARTS OF 
DESIGN. 

By the arts of production, I mean naturally those arts by which what 
is a raw material assumes a form, a shape, a new existence, adapted for 
some necessity or some use in the many wants of 'life. Such is pottery; 
such is carving in its various branches, whether applied to wood or to 
stone; such is the working of metals, wh(;ther of gold or silver or brass 
or iron; such is the production of textile matters, of objects of whatever 
sort and for whatever purpose; such is construction in its different 
branches, commencing with the smallest piece of furniture, and ascend- 
ing to a great and majestic edifice. By the arts of design, I understand 
those which represent nature to us in any form, or which bring before 
us beauty, whether in form or in color. 

l^ow, these arts ought, as every one agrees, to be in close harmony 
one with the other; but that harmony which I wish to establish between 
them must be an honorable union, an equal compact, a noble league. 



302 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND AETIST. 

There is not to be one the servant, and the other the master; each must 
be aware of the advantages which it can receive as well as those which 
it can confer. Thus the arts, for instance, of design, will have to give 
elegance of form, grace of outline, beauty of ornament, to that which is 
produced by the other class of arts 5 and they in their turn have to trans- 
mit and multiply and perpetuate the creations of the arts of design. 
Now, it is agreed on all hands that as yet this complete harmony does 
not exist; that we have far from arrived* at that mutual ap})lication of 
the one class to the other which gives us a satisfactory result. It is 
unnecessary, I believe, to bring evidence of this. As we proceed, I 
trust that opportunities will present themselves of bringing before you 
authorities for tliat assertion. Bat I may say, at the very outset, that 
the report which is published by the department of practical art is 
ahnost based upon the acknowledgment that as yet we have not attained 
that application of the arts of design to the arts of production which we 
desire, and which is most desirable to the arts of production to obtain. 
It acknowledges the existence of a necessity for much more iiistruction 
than has yet been given. It allows that for several years — thirteen 
years, at least — of the existence of schools of design they have not been 
found fully to attain their purpose, and a new organization and a new 
system has now begun to be adopted. jSTo one can appreciate, I trust, 
more than I am inclined to do myself, the advantages which must result 
from the multiplication of these schools of design as applied to manu- 
factures, and other great improvements which they have already begun 
to confer, and will continue, no doubt, still more to bestow upon the 
industrial classes. I believe it most important to pro[)agate to the 
utmost the love of science, the love of art. I believe it most useful to ac- 
custom every child to its first rudiments, its elementary states. I think, if 
we can make drawing a part of universal education, a great deal v/ill be 
gained. But this, certainly, cannot be enough. I am willing to grant 
that we shall have a great improvement upon what we have produced 
in the form of art. I believe that we shall see better designers; men 
with better imaginations; men who understand the harmony and com- 
bination of colors better, and who can give to the artisans patterns 
which v.ill greatly im^x^ove every department of our industry. Bat, I 
ask, is that sufficient? Will this bring art up to what Ave desire! This 
is the great question. This is the subject of which I am going to treat. 
It appears to me that there is a very simple mode of looking at it; and 
it is the one, consequently, which I shall adopt. It is a question partly 
of experience. It is a lesson much of which history can teach us; and 
I desire to briug before you such facts as seem to me to bear upon the 
question, and to enable us to come to a i)ractical and satisfactory con- 
clusion. 1 will endeavor to state the question under a very sim])le, but, 
perhaps it may appeal^, not a very practical form. 

There is now a great desire to form, not only in the capital, but also 
in all great cities where industry prevails, museums, which should 



IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 303 

contain all the most perfect specimens of art antiquity in every age has 
left us of beauty in design and elegance in form. We wish that our 
artisans should have frequently before them what may be considered not 
merely actual models to copy, but likewise such objects as may gradually 
impress their minds with feelings of taste. Now, I should like to have 
the construction, the forming, of such a museum. And, in describing 
it, I will confine myself entirely to one small department — that of classi- 
cal nrt, classical antiquity — because I know, that, for a museum in- 
tended to be practical to the eyes of artisans, there is a far wider range 
of collection to be taken than that to which I -will confine myself. Weil, 
now I imagine to myself a hall at least as large as this, and of a more 
elegant and perfect architecture. I wil! suppose it to be fornn^d itself 
upon classical models; and around it shall be ranged, not merely i)laster 
casts, but real marble statues and busts collected from antiquity. I 
would range them round the throne so that each could be enjoyed at 
leisure by the student. There should be room for the draughtsman to 
take a copy from any side. In the center 1 w^ould spread out a beautiful 
mosaic, such as we find in the museums, for instance, of liome, a pave- 
ment in rich colors, representing some beautiful scene, which should be 
most carefully railed off, that it might not be worn or soiled by the pro- 
fane tread of modern men. There should be cabinets in which there 
should be — but inclosed carefully with glass, so that there would be no 
danger of accidents — the finest specimens of the old Etruscan vases, of 
every size, of every shape, plain and colored, enriched with those beau- 
tiful drawings upon them vrhich give them such rich characters, and at 
the same time such price ; and on one side 1 would have collected for you 
some specimens of the choicest products of the excavations of Hercula- 
neum. There should be bronze vessels of the most elegant form and the 
most exquisite carving, and there should be all sorts even of household 
utensils, such asare found there, of most beautiful shapeand exquisite fin- 
ish. On the walls I would have some of those paintings which have yet re- 
mained almost unharmed after being buried for so many hundred of years, 
and which retain their freshness, and would glow upon your wnills, and 
clothe them with beauty, and at the same time with instruction. And 
then I would have a most choice cabinet, containing medals in gold and 
silver and bronze, of as great an extent as possible, but chiefly selected 
for the beauty of their workmanship ; and engraved gems likewise, 
every one of which should, if possible, be a treasure. Now, if such a 
museum could be collected, you would say, I am sure, that so far as 
classical antiquity goes — classical art — you have everything that you 
could desire, and you have as noble, as splendid, as beautiful a collection 
of artistic objects as it is within the reach of modern wealth and inlluence 
to collect. In fact, you would say, if you could not make artists now by 
the study of these objects, it was a hopeless matter, because here was 
everything that antiquity has given us of the most beautiful. 
Now, I am afraid that, while you have been iJollowing me in this 



304 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND AETIST. 

foruiatiou of an ideal museum, you liave thought it required a great 
stretch of imagination to suppose it possible that such a collection could 
be made in any city of England, I will ask you, then, now to spread 
yonr wings a little more, and fly with me into even a more imaginary 
idea than this. Let us suppose that by some chaiice all these objects 
which we have collected were at some given period, in the first century 
of Christianity, collected together in an auci(^nt Roman house; and let 
us suppose that the owner of the house suddenly appeared among us, 
and had a right to claim back all these beautiful works of art which we 
so highly prize, whicli we have taken so much trouble, and laid out so 
much money, to collect. Now, what does be do with them when he has 
got them back? What will he do with these statues which we have been 
copying and drawing and admiring so muc hi Pliny finds great fault, is 
very indignant with the people of his age, because he says they have 
begun to form gaWevies, pinacothecas ; that such a thing was unknown 
before; that no real Roman should value a statue merely as a work of art, 
but that it was only as the statue of his ancestors that he ought to value 
them. And thus that Roman looks at them as nothing else. He takes 
them back ; he puts the best of them, not in the center of a room where 
it may be admired; but to him it is a piece of household furnituix', and 
he puts it with all its fellows into the niches from which they hav^e been 
taken, and where they are, perhaps, in a very bad light. It is exceed- 
ingly probable that if the statues were not of his ancestors, he would, 
instead of allowing them to remain in the beautiful hall prepared for 
them, send them into his garden, into his villa, to stand out in the open 
air, and receive all the rain of heaven upon them. The mosaic which we 
have valued so much, and which is so wonderlul a piece of work, he will 
put most probably into the ])arlor of his house to be trodden under foot 
b3^ every slave that comes in and goes out. And now he looks about 
him at that wonderful collection of beautiful Etruscan vases which we 
have got together, and he recognizes them at once: "Take that to the 
kitchen; that is to hold oil:" '-Take that to the scullery; that is for 
water:" "Take these plates and drinking-cups to the pantry; I shall 
want them for dinner." And those smaller, those beautiful vessels, which 
yet retain as they do the very scent of the rich odors which were kept 
in them, "Take them to the dressing-rooms; those are what we want 
on our toilet, This is a washing-basin which I have been accustomed to 
use. What have they been making of all these things, to put them under 
glass, and treat them as wonderful works of art." And, of those beau- 
tiful bronze vessels, some belong again to the kitchen, others belong to 
our furnished apartments ; but every one of them is a mere household 
piece of furniture. And then he looks into the beautiful cabinet ; and 
he sends those exquisite gems into his rooms, to be worn by his family, 
as ordinary rings. And your gold medals and silver medals and bronze 
medals he quietly ])uts into his purse ; for, to him, they are common money. 
Now, then, here we have made a collection of magnificent productions 



IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 305 

of art; and, in reality, these were all the fruits of the arts of produc- 
tion. 

Now, what are we to say to this ! We are to say that there was a period 
in Borne, and there were similar periods in other countries at different times, 
when there was no distinction between the arts of i^roduction and the 
art of design ; but those very things, which to us now are objects of ad- 
miration as artistic work, were then merely things made and fashioned 
as we see them for the ordinary uses to which we adapt other things of 
perhaps similar substances, but of a very different form. For, in fact, 
if you had these vessels, you would not know what to do with them. 
We could not cook a dinner in them. We certainly could not adapt 
them to our common wants. But to the Eomans they were the very 
objects which were used for those i^urposes ; and although now, in read- 
ing the old writers, and trying to make out the dreadfully hard names 
by which all these different pieces of pottery are called, yet, learned and 
classical as all that may be, when we come to translate these high- 
sounding Greeks names into English, we get very modest results — pip- 
kins and basins and ewers and flagons, and such homely names as these. 
Now, where is the art there"? Is it that these were designed, do you 
think, by some man of great reputation; and then that they were all care- 
fully copied, exactly imitated, from his design ? Oh, certainly' nothing of 
the sort. The art that is in these beautiful things is a part of themselves ; 
is bestowed ui^on them in their fabrication. You may take the Etruscan 
vase, and you may scratch away from it, if you please, every line which 
had been traced by the pencil of the embellisher upon it; and, after that, 
the seal of beautiful design, grace, and the elegance of true art are 
so stamped upon it, that, if you wish to remove them, you must smash 
the vase. It is inherent in it; it was created with it. 

Then what I fancy is desired is, that we should bring art back to that 
same state in which the arts of design are so interwoven with the arts 
of production that the one cannot be separated from the other, but 
everything which is made is by a certain necessity made beautiful. And 
this can only be when we are able to fill the minds of our artisans with 
true i)rinciples, until really these have pervaded their souls, and until 
the true feeling of art is at their ftngers^-ends. You will see, I think, from 
the example which I have given you, what is the principle at which I 
am aiming; which I wish to establish. It is this: That at any period in 
which there has been a really close union between the arts of production 
and the arts of design, this has resulted from the union in one person of the 
artist and the artisan. 

Such now is the principle that I am going to develop; and in doing 
so I will distinguish between arts of production belonging to two dis- 
tinct classes. There are those in which necessarily there is manipula- 
tion — the use of the hand, or of such implements as the hand directly 
employs ; and there are those in which mechanical ingenuity is employed 
in the art of production. It is clear that these two must be treated 
distinctly ; and I will begin with the first, which affords the greatest 
20 s 



306 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 

number of illustrations and examples, in proof of tliat principle wliicli I 
have laid down. 

I will begin first, then, with illustrations from metal work. Now, the 
period in which there was the greatest perfection in this sort of work, 
as is universally acknowledged, is from about the fourteenth century — 
1300, I think to IGOO, or at least after 1500. It is singular that, in that 
period, five at least, very probably more — but we have it recorded of five 
of the most distinguished sculptors whose works are now the most highly 
prized, that they were ordinary working goldsmiths and silversmiths. 
This is given us in their respective biograpliies: Benvenuto Cellini, Luca 
della Eobbia, Lorenzo Ghiberti, Brunelleschi, and Baccio Bandinelli, all 
of whom were goldsmiths and workers at first, developed most extra- 
ordinary talent as sculptors. How was this done ^ Can we conceive a 
person who is merely a workman, working upon such plate as is put 
before him, becoming a man of high first-class character in art? There 
have been exami^les, but they are rare. But here we have five men, in a 
limited period, becoming most eminent. Now, what was the reason of 
that? It was because the jeweler, the silversmith, who worked with his 
hands, was educated, not only as an artist, but an artist of the highest 
class; and Vasari observes, in the life of Bandinelli, that in those times 
no man was reputed a good goldstnith who was not a good draughtsman, 
and who could not work as well in relief. We have a principle then 
established, that the person who did the material work in -the finer works 
was an artist, who could not only draw, but model, and did the same with 
the metal itself; for that is the nature of that class of work of which I 
have spoken. 

Now, take the life of Cellini. Here was a man who originally was put 
to a totally diiferent employment. His father had no higher ambition 
conceruiug him than that he should become a great player upon the 
flute; and he teased him during all the last years of his life because he had 
no taste for this, and would run after goldsmiths and others, and learn 
the diiferent branches of their profession. He led the most wonderful 
life. Ho was to day at Eome; next day at Florence; then he was at 
Naples; then at Venice ; then in France; then back again : that he could 
have done any work, in fact, seems incredible to any one who reads his 
life. And he did not travel by train or any ijublic conveyance which 
could take on his luggage. He traveled on horseback each time, from 
Eome all the way to Paris. He had no luggage; he was a poor man, 
and whenever he came and started his shop, he began by making his 
own tools; and he worked with his scholars, who were generally young 
men that became themselves eminent in the profession, in a little open 
shop, looking to the street; there he himself hammered and carved and 
cast and shaped, and did whatever else was necessary for the work. He 
was an actual working goldsmith ; and the beauty of his works consists 
in this, that they have the impress of genius so marked upon them, that 
they never could have been designed by one person and executed by an- 



IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 307 

other. There is ns much art in the finish by his own hand, in every 
enamel, in the setting of every stone, as there is in the entire design; 
nor does he ever dream of talking- of himself in any other vray ; and yet how 
he went on from step to step, nntil at length he produced the most mag- 
nificent works, on the largest scale, in marble and in bronze ! He describes 
how he constructed his own Perseus. He went to buy his own wood, 
and saw it brought; and when he was casting that most exquisite statue 
of Perseus, which is still one of the wonders of art, he had every sort of 
misfortune. His furnace blew up, the roof was blown off, and the rain 
came in torrents upon the fire just the moment that the metal was going to 
be poured in. By his ingenuity, his extraordinary contrivances, he baffled, 
it might appear, the whole chain of accidents, and brought out, almost 
without a flaw, that most perfect piece of workmanshij). You may 
imagine to what a state he was reduced, when, the very moment that 
the metal was ready for pouring out, the explosion took place. He had 
no other resource but to run to his kitchen, as he says, and to take every 
piece of copper, to the amount of two hundred porringers and different 
sorts of kettles, and throw them into the fire; and from these that splen- 
did statue came forth. There was genius. 

As a curious instance of the most extraordinary ingenuity, he tells us 
that on one occasion a surgeon came into his shop to perform an opera- 
tion on the hand of one of his pui:)ils. U]xm looking at his instruments, 
he found them, as they were in those days, so exceedingly rude and 
clumsy, that he said, " If you will only wait half an hour, I will make you a 
better instrument;" and he went into his workshop, and took a piece of 
steel, and brought out a most beautifully finished knife, with which the 
operation was successfully ijerformed, Kow this man, at the time you 
see him thus working in his shop as a common workman, was modeling 
in the most exquisite manner in wax; spending his evenings in the pri- 
vate apartments of the Grand Duke, modeling in his presence, and assist- 
ing him with a hundred little trifles which are now considered treasures 
of art. And so wherever he was, and under all circumstances, he acted 
as an artist, but at the same time as a truly laboring artisan. It was the 
same with others in the same profession. He was not the only man, by 
any means, whose genius was so universal; because we find him telling 
us repeatedly that the moment he heard of some goldsmith (and in those 
days a goldsmith was really an artist, as I have already said) who excelled 
in any particular branch of art, he determined to excel him. Thus it 
was that he grew to rival the medals of one, the enamels of another, the 
peculiar manner of putting foil to precious stones of another; and, in 
fact, there was not a branch of art which he did not consider it his duty 
to excel in. With this spirit, is it wonderful that men of really great taste 
should have been produced f men who, you observe, looked upon every 
branch of productive art as really a branch of the higher art of design ; 
and thus in their own persons combined that art with the power of the 
tool; were artists as well as artisans. 



308 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 

There is auotlier celebrated jeweler of that time, whom he mentions 
frequently, of the name of Antonio Foppo, a Milanese, who is better 
known in the history of art by a name which he received in derision 
in Spain, the name g£ Capodursa, which means a bear's face, and which 
he is known by, commonly, in w^orks of art. Cellini describes to us 
the processes by which he produces his works ; and they are so careful, 
and require such accurate knowledge of art, that his knowledge must 
have been very superior indeed in the arts of design. As an instance of 
what was the latitude and the extent of art, and how really a jeweler 
or goldsmith in those days was not above work which in our days no 
one would dare offer to a person of such a profession, we have a case 
recorded in the history of one of the j^ainters, Pierino del Vaga, by 
Vasari, speaking of a very particular friend of Pierino's, a goldsmith. 
When the Grand Duke of Tuscany was building his palace, he gave to 
this man a commission to make the metal blinds for the ground floor 
of that palace; (and it is considered a great pity that a work of so 
homely a nature should have perished, because there can be no doubt 
whatever that it was a work of exquisite beauty.) So that, even upon 
what would be considered the lowest stage of common production, 
the artist did not feel it was beneath him to design; .not to give a de- 
sign to others, but to execute it himself. We have in the collections, 
particularly of Italy, in the palaces, evident proofs of the great extent to 
which this combination of various arts must have been carried, in works 
exceedingly complicated, extremely beautiful, and at the same time 
necessarily requiring a great deal of ability to execute. Those are the 
rich cabinets in which may be found, mixed together, work in marble, 
and in ivory, in wood, in metals, in enamel, and in painting, all com- 
bined together by one idea, and all executed by one hand, but of the 
authors of which it seems imjDossible to find any good trace. They 
probably were produced by those men called goldsmiths, and who, as I 
said before, could work as well upon any of those substances, and thus 
bring them harmoniously to form one beautiful whole. 

j^osv, proceeding from what is most precious in art to what is more 
homely, let us return for a moment to a subject on which I have al- 
ready touched. I have spoken of the beauty of the productions of an- 
tiquity in metal, which were found in the excavation j)articularly of those 
two buried museums, as we may call them, of antiquity, Pompeii and 
Herculaneum. The collection of these is chiefly in Naples. Except 
where presents have been made to other countries, they have been 
jealously kept together. iSTow, these different objects have not been 
dug out of temples or out of palaces, but they have been taken out of 
every sort of house— houses evidently belonging to the citizens — 
and I think you may see that there is not one in that collection which 
does not immediately arrest the eye both by the beauty of form and by 
its exquisite fancy. Many of them have been engraved in the publica- 
tion called the "Museo Borbonico," the Bourbon Museum, the Museum 



IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND AETIST. 309 

of iN'aples; and I tbiuk very justly tlie remark is made by the editor iu 
the fifth volume, that the whole modern civilized world, however vast it 
may be, and however it may labor iu so many arts and so many trades, 
does not and cannot exhibit even a small i^roportiou of that elegance 
and ornament, varied in a thousand ways, and in innumerable most 
fantastic modes, which are to be admired in the remains of furniture 
found in Pompeii and Herculaneum — two cities which occupied so in- 
significant a pla-ce in the ancient world. That is quite true. Now, 
what are we to infer from this? There can be no doubt, as I have said, 
on examining these beautiful objects, that they have been for common 
use. There are scales, steelyards, which can only have been made 
to weigh j)ro visions; the chains are most delicately worked ; the weight 
is frequently a head with a helmet, most beautifully chiseled ; and so 
genuine and true are these, so really intended forevery-day use, that 
one of them has stamped upon it yet, the authentication made at the 
capitol of the weights being just. This was a steelyard which was in 
the kitcheif, and it was for the ordinary purposes of the house. There 
are other large vessels which must have served for culinary jjurposes, 
and of which the handles and the rings and the different parts are fin- 
ished far beyond what the finest bronzes that are made now in Paris can 
equal. What are we to conclude? You do not suppose these were the 
designs of the Flaxmans and the Baileys of that day. Who ever heard of 
a great artist in Pompeii and Herculaneum ? And how can you imagine 
that every house furnished itself with what were considered exquisite 
and extraordinary specimens of art for the use of their every-day life? 
And then, where are their common utensils, if these are not they? If 
these lamps were not what they burnt, if these candelabra were not the 
shafts upon which they were hung, if these vessels were not those in 
which they prepared their viands, where are those? Were they carried 
away in the flight? But the most precious would surely be carried 
away, and the commoner be left behind. Nothing of the sort. One 
may see here everything is to be found; and everything is beautiful in 
shape, and generally in finish. What are we to conclude ? Why, noth- 
ing less than that the braziers who made these things were able to 
make them. They came from the hands of the brass-founder: they 
have been chiseled in the workshop ; they have been finished, not to 
be put up in cabinets, but in order to be knocked about by servants. 
Then here we have a state of art in which the jiroducer, the man who 
makes, who manipulates, who handles the object of manufacture which 
he x)roduces, was able to do what now defies almost our most superior 
workmen. 

Now let us go to another part of the woild, and come to a later 
period. Nuremberg, during the time which I have specified — between 
1300 and the middle of 1500 — was a center of art, and especially 
in all metal work. There is an observation of Hoffman, a German 
writer, that Nuremberg was the cit}^ in which the artist and the crafts- 



310 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 

man walked most liarmouiously liaud in band; but I tbiuk he does not 
go far enough ; he ought to have said that it was a city in which the arti- 
san and the artist icere the most perfectly combined. At a very early period, 
that iSj as early as 1355, there was produced a piece of work such as is at 
this day the admiration of all artists. And what was it? It was a mere 
well, a fountain in the public square ; "the beautiful fountain," " the beau- 
tiful well," as it is to this day most justly called. I^ow, this was made en- ' 
tirely by the designer, by the artist himself, Hofer, who united in himself 
these two qualities; and it is acknowledged that in the treatment of the 
metal work, and in the beauty of the religious images which surround this 
fountain, but few steps have been made in art since that time. And he, 
as I observed, was a mere workman; he did his own work. At a later 
period — at what is considered the third period of art, in iTuremberg — 
there is another remarkable piece of metal work ; and I am glad to 
find that in the last report just published by the department of practi- 
cal art, Mr. Smirke has introduced a letter in which he begs that this 
piece of workmanship, which he calls one of the most celebrated pro- 
ductions in metal, may be copied by casts, and brought to England as a 
specimen of art. Now that beautiful production was of as early a 
period as 150G; it was made between 1506 and 1519, and it is the 
shrine of St. Sebald, in his church at Nuremberg; an exquisite piece of 
work — so beautiful, so elegant, as that no icouoclasm had dared to touch 
it (though I must say that Nuremberg had been i>reserved from the re- 
proach of that error) — but there it is, in its freshness and its beauty 
as it came from the artist's hand ; in the center, a shriue of silver, in 
which is the body of the saint, and around it what may be called a cage 
or grating of the most perfect metal work, and with statues of most 
exquisite workmanship. Now I do wish this to be brought to England — 
a copy, that is, of it — not merel}' because it will show what was done 
in ages that we consider hardly .emerging from barbarism ; not only what 
beautiful inspirations religion could give the artist; but because it will 
show to those who are trying to raise the character of any art the true 
principle upon whicli alone it can ever he raised to tchat it was then. They 
will see the artist portrayed ui)on it — Peter Yischer ; they will see him 
with his apron on; they will see him with his chisel and his mallet in 
his hand; they will see that he aspires to nothing more than to be a 
handicraftsman, a workman in metal, who yet could conceive, and then 
design, this most magnificent production of man's hand. 

Another example, something of the same sort, we shall find in a 
neighboring country. There is at Antwerx), likewise, a beautiful well 
near the cathedral ; and if you ask who it was that produced this, you 
will hear that it was one who sometimes had been known as a painter, 
and at others, under the more familiar appellation of the "Blacksmith 
of Antwerp," as a blacksmith; and there is a piece of iron-woric which 
I fear that not our most perfect works could turn out — certainly not, 
nothing that could be compared with it. And Quintin Matsys was 



IDENTIFICATION OF THE AETISAN AND ARTIST. 311 

a poor scliool-boy, who, liuding the heavy blacksmith's work too much 
for him, took to drawing and coloring little images of saints, to be 
given out in processions, and thus rose to be a painter and an artist, 
finding his lirst profession too heavy for his strength. But this iron- 
work is a work of art; it is not a work merely cast in the lump, and 
then put together; but it is a work that required genius, that required 
great artistic skill; it shows that the artist even worked in iron; that a 
man who belonged to the very lowest branch of what may be considered 
the arts — laboring in metal — was able, notwithstanding, to imagine and 
to carry out the most beautiful conceptions. 

l!^ow, coming to modern times, do we find anything of this sort? I 
content myself with referring to that last report which I have just men- 
tioned — of the department of practical art. In that report there 
are incorporated letters from some of our best silver and goldsmiths 
upon the character of the artistic proficiency of the workmen. I will 
only read one, for all in reality repeat the same sentiment. "At present 
we seldom find an English workman who understands drawing. Not 
one of our English workmen has a knowledge of drawing;" and it is 
said that, without exception, these men will not even go to the school. 
Attemi)ts have been made to bring them to the school of practical art, that 
they may learn something of the principles by which the works in their 
branch of productive art should be conducted. They cannot be induced 
to go and obtain that information, though it is nearly, or entirely, 
gratuitously given. So little taste, so little feeling of art is there in 
oiu' workmen now. Can we expect they will produce works that will 
rival those of ancient times ? For there is this broad, immense differ- 
ence: in one, the artist was the workman; now, the workman has only 
a degree of intelligence above the machinery vrhich he uses. He can 
apply those means which are put into his hand; but can have no artistic 
feeling to give the last touch, or even to bring things to ordinary perfec- 
tion. On the other hand, we must be struck with the difference, that 
in France there is much more taste, much more knowledge, much more 
intelligence, in the actual artificer; the exhibition showed, that, though 
we had magnificent things in silver-work, and gorgeous objects in 
metallic productions, beautiful and splendid, yet, when you came to 
look at them with the artist's eye, you could not help observing the 
immense difference between our English i)roductions and those of France; 
though, be it spoken to the glory of our English goldsmiths, they have 
both the taste and the generosity and munificence to bring over and to 
employ the very first foreign artists; and it was thus we did lU'oduce 
some objects that stood in competition, not with those of the workman's 
rivals, but with those of his own countrymen. 

In Vecht there is an example of what the artists in old times were. 
He began as a cotton-spinner ; he became a manufacturer of toys ; then 
a button-maker ; and then he began to work with the chisel. His ge- 
nius developed itself. He began to retouch and repair ancient armor, 



312 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 

and then was tempted, seeing that these were things sought after, (it 
appears with the most honest intention,) to imitate them : and lie found 
that they were bought and put in royal and ijnperial cabinets as real 
work of what is called cinqnecento. And then he imitated the shields, 
working exactly upon Cellini's principle, that everything, however small, 
is worked out separately, and then fastened together ; that nothing is 
cast, but that everything, to the smallest tip of the least finger, is hoi 
low; and he worked on, and produced it by his .artistic and careful ma- 
nipulation. He began to work this way, and he found his silver-work also 
became considered as ancient, and was adopted iuto collections of valuable 
antiquities. He then learned the power of his own genius, and he soon 
rose ; and, when the late revolution in Fi-ance took place, he had com- 
missions for works to the amount of £00,000. And this was all his own 
work, the production of Ms own hands. However, his losses were in 
common with many others who had engaged in higher branches of art, 
and he has been since in this country ; but certainly those specimens of 
his work which we had in the exhibition were not only most beautiful, 
but most exquisite ; and many persons who took the i)ains to examine 
in detail some of the works in silver, which were presented by one 
French house in particular — the Freres Maurice — must have been struck 
by the high artistic merit of them all. And they all are worked entirely 
bit by bit by the artist; and it was impossible they could be executed 
but by an artist who could model as well as draw, and who knew how 
to treat his metal perfectly, so as to give all the softness, beauty, and 
delicacy of the original model.. 

Xow let us proceed to what may be considered a higher branch of 
art, aud that is sculpture. We shall find exactly the same principle 
throughout ; all the greatest artists of the most flourishing period Avere 
men who did their own 2cor]c. You are probably aware — many, I have 
no doubt, are — at the jiresent day, when a sculptor has to produce a 
statue he first of all makes his model in clay; probably a drawing first, 
then a small model, then a model exactly as he intends the statue to be, 
full-sized and completely finished ; from this the cast is taken in plaster ; 
the block of marble of proper size is put beside it, and a frame over it 
from which there hang threads with weights ; these form the points 
from which the workman measures, from corresponding lines, first to 
the models, and then from these which are over the cast to the cast it- 
self; and by means of the merest mechanical i^rocess he gradually cuts 
away the marble to the shape of his cast, and often brings it so near to 
the finished work that the artist himself barely spends a few weeks upon 
it. This was so much the case with a very eminent sculptor that it is 
well known he hardly ever had occasion to touch it. 

Now that was not the way the ancients worked : they knew perfectly 
well that there was more feeling in the few touches which the master-hand 
gives, even from the very l)eginning of the work, than there can be in 
the low aud plodding process of mechanical labor; and we find that 



IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 313 

those wlio were really exqiiivsite sculptors iu ancient times ivcre also 
their own worlcmen. Vasari tells us of Orcagna, that he made at Florence 
seven figures, all ivitli Ms own hand, iu marble, which yet exist. Now, 
Orcagna was certainly a remarkable person. He was a sculptor, painter 
and an artist: and so justly vain, if one may so speak, of this varied 
character of his art, that, upon his monuments or sculptures, he calls 
himself a iiainter ; upon his i)aintings, he always calls himself a sculp- 
tor. His paintings are to be found in the cemetery at Pisa. The most 
beautiful and splendid of his works is the matchless altar in the church 
at San Michael, iu Florence, of which, I am glad to say, there will be 
an exact copy in the future Crystal Palace. This artist, now, whose 
work is certainly most beautiful, most finished, as far as we can gather 
from his life, actually did the worlc with his oicn hands, and carved the 
ichole of the marble himself. 

I shall have occasion to speak of another celebrated artist under an- 
other head ; and therefore I now will mention one who became very cel- 
ebrated, and from whose life it is" evident that lie did the whole of the 
carving with his own hands, and that is Bruuelleschi. He lived at the 
period when art was becoming truly most beautiful — the period which 
just preceded the appearance, perhaps, of a still greater artist, but who, 
in some respects, departed from the purest principles of art. He was 
the contemporary of Donatello, and they were both very great friends, 
and worked even in the same church. An anecdote related by Vasari, 
in the life of Donatello, will shovv' us how truly Brunelleschi was not 
merely a sculptor, but a carver who i^erformed the work with his own 
hand. He tells us that Donatello had received a commission to carve 
a crucifix, (which yet exists in the church of Santa Croce, under a beau- 
tiful painting by Taddeo Gaddi,) and that he produced what was con- 
sidered a verj- fine work ; but he was anxious that his friend Brunelles- 
chi should see and approve of it. He invited him therefore, one day, to 
inspect it ; which shows that the work had been covered up and con- 
cealed during the execution. Brunelleschi looked at it, and said noth- 
ing. His friend Donatello felt hurt, and said, "I have brought you 
here to give me your opinion 5 tell me candidly what do you think of if?" 
"Well, then," Brunelleschi said, "I will tell you, at once, that it is a 
figure, not of Christ, but of a peasant or a rustic." Donatello Avas in- 
dignant. It was j)erhaps the most beautiful specimen of the subject in 
carving that had been produced ; and he used an expression which be- 
came a proverb ; and I cannot help remarking how many expressions of 
artists have turned into proverbs. The expression in Italian means 
this: " Take a piece of wood, and make another." Bruuelleschi did not 
reply. He went home. He did take a piece of wood. He said nothing 
to Donatello, and he carved his crucifix. When it was quite finished, he 
met Donatello, and said, " Will you come and sup with me this even- 
ing?" (jSTow I narrate this anecdote partly because it shows us what 
the great artists were — that they were not great gentlemen living in any 



314 IDENTIFICATION OF THE AETISAN AND ARTIST. 

particular style.) " I will do so with pleasure," said Douatello. " Then 
come along;" aud Brunelleschi, as tliey went on, stojiped ab the market, 
bought eggs and cheese for their supper, put them in an apron, and said 
to Donatello, " Now, you carry these to my house while I buy something 
else, and I'll follow you." Donatello entered the room, saw the crucifix, 
let fall his apron, and smashed the eggs. Brunelleschi soon followed, 
and found Donatello with his hands stretched out, and his mouth open, 
looking at this wonderful work. " Come," said he to Donatello, " where's 
our supper ? " "I have had my supper," said he ; ' ' y on get what you can 
out of what is left." And then, like a true, noble-hearted, generous 
artist, he took his friend by the hand, and said, " You are made to 
represent Christ ; I, only to represent peasants." Nowj this shows, as I 
said before, that this poor artist carried on his own work with his own 
hands, shut up in his own house; in fact, that, as Vasari tells us, he 
never allowed any one to see it until it was quite completed. 

There can be no doubt that, among all the names celebrated in art, 
there is not one that can be put in comparison with that of Michael Au- 
gelo; a man who, not merely from his follower, disciple, and intimate, 
Yasari, but even from jealous and envious and ill-tempered Benvenuto 
Cellini, receives constantly the epithet of " the divine." No man cer- 
tainl^' ever had such a wonderful soul for art, in every department: the 
cupola of St. Peter's, as an architect; his Moses and his Christ, as a 
sculptor ; and his Last Judgment, on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, 
as a painter, are three monuments which would have made the eternal 
fame, not of three, but of a hundred, artists in each department. Great, 
noble, generous, and though perhaps somewhat in his temper not amia- 
ble, yet sternly honest in all his dealings, he seems to have been the 
great center around which the art of his period revolved. There was 
no one so great, so sublime in any i)articular branch of it, that did not 
look up to Michael Angelo, aud consider him his superior. It is acknowl- 
edged that Eafifiielle went into the Sistine Chapel, and saw Angelo's 
wonderful works, and changed entirely his style upon beholding them ; 
and it is particularly acknowledged by the writers of that time, that in 
every other department — civil engineering, &c. — he was considered 
equally supreme. Now, you would suppose that this man, upon whom 
commissions jjoured in every day for great works, would have employed 
a number of artisans to assist him ; that he would have had carefully 
prepared models, which he would have intrusted to skillful artificers, 
so as to lighten his labor. But no such thing. There is every evidence 
we can desire, that, from the beginning to the end, Michael Angelo per- 
formed the whole of his own work; that he began with the piece of 
marble as it came from the quarry ; that, if not always, x)retty generallj', 
he did not even condescend to make a design beyond a small wax 
model, but immediately set to work with chisel and mallet on the figure 
which he had in his imagination, and which he knew was as truly lurk- 
ing in the inanimate block. Yasari shows us, in fact, from his unfin- 



IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 315 

islied pieces, iu what way lie must have mapped out the marble and 
doue the work himself; and that is Avhy we have so many vast pieces 
by him unfinished : either the stroke did not come out as he desired, or 
it went too far into the marble, and spoilt his labor. But so it is, that 
by far the greater part of those gigantic pieces which he finished, if not 
all, were the productions of his own hand, as W'Cll as of his intellect. 

"When about seventy-five years of age, Vasari tells us, he used to be 
just as indefatigable with his chisel and hammer as when he was a stout, 
young man. He had near his bed-room, if not in it, (for he lived in a 
most primitive and simple manner,) an immense block of marble, and, 
when he had nothing else to do, he used to be hammering at that; and 
when asked why he so continuously worked at this branch of his vari- 
ous arts, he used to reply that he did it for amusement, to pass his time, 
and that it was good for his health to take exercise with the mallet. 
He undertook at that age, out of an enormous block of marble, to bring 
out four figures, larger than life, representing the descent from the 
cross; and he had nearly worked out the figure of our Lord, w^en, hap- 
pening to meet with a vein that was hard and troublesome, he one day 
broke it into half a dozen pieces. It was seen in this state by a friend, 
and his servant begged it for him. It was put together, and it is now 
to be seen at Florence. But Vasari says that it was necessary, in order 
to give him occupation, to get another large block of marble and put it 
near his bed, that so he might continue at his work ; and he began 
another group of the same sort. This w^as at the age of seventy-five. 
And Vasari gives us an interesting account of how he worked : he says 
he was remarkably sober, and while performing his greatest works, suck 
as the paintings, he rarely took more than a crust of bread and a glass 
of wine for his dinner. This sobriety, he says, made him very vigilant, 
and not require much sleep ; and very often in the night he used to rise, 
when he could not sleep, and work away with his chisel, having made 
for himself a sort of helmet, or cap, out of pasteboard, and upon the 
middle of this, in the toj), he had his candle, so that the shadow of his 
body never could be thrown upon the work. 

Apropos of this, Vasari tells us an anecdote v/hich is interesting as 
showing the character of Michael Angelo and of his time. Vasari 
observes that he never used wax candles for this purpose, but a particu- 
lar sort of caudles made of goat's tallow, which, he says, are particularly 
excellent. Wishing to make him a present, he (Vasari) sent to Michael 
Angelo his servant one day with four bags of these particular candles, 
containing forty jjounds of them. The servant brought them; and 
Michael Angelo, who never accepted a present, told him to take them 
back again, he would not receive them. The servant said, "They have 
nearly broken my arm iu bringing them, and 1 shall not carry them 
back." "Then do what you like with them," said Michael Angelo. 
"Then," replied the servant, "I observed, as I came to your house, that 
just before your door there was a nice bed of just-hardened mud : I'll go 



316 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 

and stick all the candles in tbis, and light them all, and leave them 
there." Michael Angelo said, " Xo, I can't allow jon to make such a 
confnsiou as there would be about my door ; so you may leave them." 
This shows the homely and friendly way in which the artists lived among 
themselves. 

We have a very interesting account of the manner in which he used 
to work at his marble, from a contemporary French writer, who says: 
"I can say that I have seen Michael Angelo, when he was about sixty 
years of age, and not then very robust, make the fragments of marble 
fly about at such a rate, that he cut off more in a quarter of an hour than 
three strong young men could have done in an hour — " a thing almost in- 
credible to any one who has not seen it; and he used to work with 
such fury, with such an impetus, that it was feared he would dash the 
whole marble to pieces, making at each stroke chips, of three or four 
fingers' thick, fly off into the air ;" and that with a material in which, 
if he had gone only a hair's-breadth too far, he would totally have de- 
stroyed the woik, which could not be restored like i)laster or clay. 

Going now to another ])art of the world for the same art, we return 
to Kuremberg, and find a most magnificent piece of sculpture in stone, 
unrivaled in the delicacy and exquisite beauty of the work ; that is 
the tabernacle in the church of St. Lawrence. It rises from the ground 
and goes up, not merely to the top of a very high church, running along 
like a plant, with one of the pillars against which it is built ; but, as if 
the church was not high enough for it, creeping far beyond, and making 
the most graceful termination, which has nothing similar in works of 
this sort. So beautiful and delicate is the whole work, representing all 
the mysteries of our Lord's life and passion, that, for a longtime, people 
used to assert that it was not stone, but modeled in some composition. 
But it has been proved beyond doubt that it is stone. Now, the man 
who made this was a mason — a common icorhing stone-mason — Adam 
Kraft, who built part of the tower of the church, and Vtiiose name is 
upon it as the mason who built it; and he, until l-iOO, when he was 
fifty-three years of age, had never attempted to work as a sculptor ; 
and yet, before he died, he had not only executed many beautiful works, 
and among them a carved staircase in the tower, but this exquisite 
work, which is without a parallel. He has represented the whole of it 
as supported \)j three kneeling figures, himself and his two apprentices, 
who executed alone the whole work. 

We see, therefore, that wherever there has really been grand or noble 
work executed by sculptors, they have been artificers as tvell as designers ; 
they have done the tvorh with their oivn hands, as well as imagined it in their 
oicn fancies. 

Let us go now to another department of art. We have treated of met- 
als and carved work in wood and stone. Let us now go to pottery. I have 
already observed that those beautiful vases, known by the name of Eti'us- 
can, were really made originally for domestic use; that, consequently, 



IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 317 

they were made by the potter, and not by a fine artist only. This 
has been fully proved. It used to be thought at one time that they were 
all funereal, or of symbolical use, being found almost entirely in tombs ; 
but it has been proved that the greater part of them were for the common 
domestic purposes of the table and the household; that some, indeed, 
were given as prizes at the games, tilled v;ith oil; others were marriage 
presents, kept with more care in houses, but still they were the work of 
the potter, and must have been ijroduced entirely by hand. Pottery 
was so much considered as a branch of art, that in early Eome, in the 
time of Numa, there was a college of potters ; they were ennobled by 
being made a s^jecial guild. Any one who went through the exhibition 
must have been particularly struck with the elegance of forms which 
prevailed in all the Indian and also in the Turkish pottery; and the 
common vessels, used to carry water on the head by the peasantry of 
Italy and Spain, have the same elegance of form which very little of our 
china, or of our finest pottery, can exhibit ; and the question naturally 
suggests itself, how is this, that in many countries there should be such 
beautifal productions, and at the same time that we should not be able 
to give the same beauty of form? The answer to this is given, I think, 
very correctly by Mr. Digby Wyatt, in his beautiful work on the late 
exhibition. He observes that "there can be no doubt that the reason 
of this beauty in the old pottery and in that of the East is, that it is made 
entirehi J)y the tcorlxman himself.'^ There can be little doubt that the most 
beautiful forms of Greek and Etruscan vases have been generated by a 
simple process of formation, and by the refiued delicacy of touch acquired 
by the potter during years of practice. The perfect outline of some of 
the commonest objects of pottery from India, Tunis, Turkey, and the 
rest, demonstrate the methods by which contours equal in grace to the 
Etrurian and those of Magna Graecia have been produced. In the finer 
work of pottery among us, a distinct person is employed to design from 
him who makes the object ; the one makes the pattern, and a mold 
is then made of the same figure as is given. But in the ancient and 
oriental objects, the beauty of form is attributed to the art deing literally 
in the potter'' s fingers ; and he acquires by the maniiuilation a fineness of 
touch, a delicacy of eye, which enables him to produce beautiful forms, 
which no one in the abstract could imagine." This is corroborated by the 
fact that in the British Museum, in the great gallery where the Etruscan 
vases are kept, you will find two — aw^ if you search the Vatican and 
Bourbon Museum, and all the collections in Europe, you will not find 
two — perfectly alike ; there is a difference in them, which shows they 
were not produced by a model, but simply out of hand ; and I have no 
doubt that the influence of this working in clay without a pattern is to 
be traced in all the works in metal and in glass of the ancients; because, 
no doubt, the eye of the mau who worked in bronze had been formed 
by his familiarity with the beautiful patterns which came forth every 
day from the hands of the workmen in clay. I find, too, it is mentioned 



318 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 

in Pliny, that when a knight named Octavius, in the time of Angustus, 
wished to have a vase made, it cost him a talent, or npwards of £50, to 
have the model made : which shows that the clay model was to be mod- 
eled before the marble vase was sculptured. In this art, then, the pro- 
ducer is the designer, the artist is the artisan, and hence comes i^erfect 
beauty. 

Next to this must be mentioned a very important branch of productive 
art, in which the art of design is always necessary to be in combination 
with the actual manufacture; and that is china, or painting upon pot- 
tery. The Etruscan vases are often simple, sometimes of one color, 
sometimes they have nothing of ornament; at other times they have 
most beautifully executed, though sketchy, scenes of ancient mythology, 
or very frequently' from the '' Iliad." These are done in a way which 
shows there must have been hundreds of artists who could do that work. 
Very frequently it was not a painter who did them, but the man who 
was at work on the pottery throughout ; and, although mere sketches, 
they are considered as containing the elements of very beautiful draw- 
ing. If we come to speak of the art of modern times, a remarkable 
instance of genius iierseveriug in its work maybe taken from the history 
of Bernard Pallissy. He was an artist, but as a painter of comparatively 
humble pretensions; for he tells us he used to paint figures, images, and 
so on; but in this he was an artist, to a certain extent. He tell ns 
himself, in the biography he has written, that in 1544, when there 
seemed not to have been anything approaching to ornamental pottery 
in France, he happened to see an Italian cup, which struck him as being 
very beautiful; and he thought to himself, "Why could not this be 
X)roduced in France?" He set to work. He was a poor man, hardly 
educated; but he had a great turn for chemistry, and was particularly 
desirous of finding out a manner of enameling pottery, and especially 
a white enamel, which he at length contrived to make. Ho took his 
worked to be baked in glass-houses, and found it comj^letely fail ; then 
he set to work in his own house, and built a furnace for the purpose. 
He put his ingredients into the furnace; they would not set nor harden. 
He had spent all his money, and he gradually pawned all his clothes, and 
burnt every article of furniture, to keep up the furnace, and i^ulled up 
the fruit trees in his garden, and then the very floor of the house, to 
keep up the fire. Still the work was all spoiled. When he went out 
the peopl^ charged him with being a coiner; he was lidiculed as mad; 
and every sort of annoyance came on him. He persevered yet; and, 
having found that his furnace would not act, he pulled it down, and with 
his own hands bringj^ng the lime and bricks, he built another furnace, 
and then sat for six days and nights w^atching the fire. Then he got a 
little money by having a commission to make a survey, and came back 
to his work, and tried again. The mortar he used, however, happened 
to have some deficiency in it; and, just as the pottery was going to set, 
he heard a crack, and the pebbles in the mortar began to fly and broke 



IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 319 

his enamel. Ho set to work again, and put his materials again in the 
fire; and this time there was a tremendous explosion, the ashes burst in 
and the whole of his work was covered with black, so firmly set into the 
enamel tbat it all had to be thrown away except a few pieces, by which 
he made a trifle. For sixteen years he persevej:ed in this way, and 
then was crowned with success, and produced the finest specimens of 
colored and beautiful j)ottery, such as are to this day sought by the cu- 
rious; and he received a situatiou in the king's household, and ended 
his days in comfort and respectability. 

I could mention the beautiful earthenware of the sixteenth century, 
known by the name of " Eaphael's ware,'" because it is supposed that 
Eaphael himself did not disdain to make designs for common pottery, 
pottery not to be used merely by the rich, but to be found in the common 
cottages and houses of ordinary classes ; the most beautifnl specimens 
being in the apothecaries' shops of Padua and Verona. There we have 
the employment of high art in the decoration of a common and ordinary 
object; for the pottery itself has no particular pretensions to elegance of 
make, but yet one of these plates, thick, heavy, clumsy, and coarse as 
they are, is worth a service of modern production as a work of art. 

Another department is statuary in pottery, which presents some very 
interesting features in the history of art. Its very origin is exceedingly 
interesting. Pliny gives it to us as the invention of a certain potter, of 
very ancient date, wliose daughter, when parting with a youth to whom 
she was engaged, did what I dare say some of you have done, made 
him stand before the lamp, so as to throw his shadow on the wall, and 
so sketch his head and face ; and the father, wishing to preserve this 
sketch, took some of his clay, and filled up the outline, and made a 
bass-relief of the countenance. That piece of pottery, at the time when 
the Eomans first became acquainted with art, and carried away the 
monuments of Greece, was preserved in the temple of the Nymphs, at 
Corinth, as a treasure of art — as the first germ from which had been 
developed some of the most beautiful productions of that kind. At the 
time of the Eomau kings of the race of Tarquin, the inhabitants of Italy 
had arrived at such perfection in this art that they used to make chariots, 
horses, and other representations of clay, so well baked that they could 
be placed in the open air, and stood for many centuries without injury ; 
and, in fact, we find them now among Etruscan monuments. The Eomans 
must also have learned well how to paint them ; because we find it 
stated that there was an artist, whom Yarro particularly mentions, who 
imitated fruit in pottery so perfectly as to deceive any one, and make 
one think it was real. 

But the most interesting example of this application of high art to 
such products is what we find in the life of an eminent artist, and at the 
same time a potter, Luca della Eobbia. He was put, when quite a boy, 
apprentice to a jeweler. He very soon began to make things in bronze; 
he gave up mere small modeling, and began upon marble, and succeeded 



320 IDPJNTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 

very well. lie worked the whole of the day at his chiseling, and sat up all 
the night drawing. He was poor ; he was hungry and cold ; and the 
only means he had of warming himself at night was to put his feet in a 
basket of shavings, while he sat there drawing, and would not be driven 
from it. Now, there was an education for him, beginning first with small 
work, and exercising his patience and skill in that way. Sigismund 
Malatesta, the great patron of art at Kimini, was then building a splen- 
did church, and he sent to Florence to find workmen to do the carving; 
and Luca della Eobbia was engaged for this purpose. He had at that 
time been a silversmith's apprentice, had executed works in marble and 
bronze, and was set to undertake that noble work at Eimini ; and how old 
was he when Sigismund engaged him ? He was fifteen ! And what pains 
and study must have been gone through in that time by the poor boy to 
makehimself really an artist ! He succeeded admirably at Eimini, and came 
back and received a commission to work with Donatello, to make a screen 
for an organ, and a bronze door. After all this, he suddenly discovered a 
totally new branch of art — modeling in pottery. He first contrived to 
manufacture his own clay ; he then discovered a mode of glazing it to 
such perfection that centuries of weather do not in the least affect it. 
He then contrived to color it in the most beautiful manner; and all 
Florence, and every part of Italy, may be said to be filled with works of 
art equal to anything produced in marble, and valued as high. He went 
on improving his art; he began, then, tesselated pavements, and outsides 
of churches, which are most beautiful ; and then, taking to himself, not 
a number of workmen to mold under him, but two near relatives of his, 
who were also artists and sculptors in marble, and who had left marble 
to come to work in clay, this family carried on the same work to the 
third generation, when the secret of the art expired with the family. 
But in those throe generations, till Pope Leo gave the commission of 
making the pavement of the Loggie Eaffaelle, this family made an infi- 
nite number of original works of art, executed by hand, colored and 
baked by themselves. Now, there is a whole family of artists, in whom 
the productive and artistic skill were united. In our estimation we 
should say what a descent that was for a sculptor in bronze and marble 
to come to a mere potter! But I will read to you Vasari's sentiments 
on that subject, who, as the great biographer of artists, and who lived 
among artists, and was himself an artist, may be allowed to have a right 
sentiment upon it. He says: "Luke therefore, passing from one sort of 
work to another, from marble to bronze, and from bronze to clay, did 
so, not from any idleness, nor from being, like many others, capricious, 
unstable, and discontented with his art, but because he felt himself 
drawn to new pursuits, and to an art requiring less labor and time, and 
rendering him more gain ; hence the world and the arts of design became 
enriched with an art, new, useful, and most beautiful; and he, with glory 
and praise, immortal and unfailing." 

We are told by Pliny that it was in the time of Augustus the prac- 



IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 321 

tice was introduced of painting the walls of bouses. Temples were 
undoubtedly painted before; because be tells us, tbat, wben the temple 
of Ceres was falling into ruins, the paintings of Demopbilus were cut 
away from the walls, (as is sometimes now done with frescoes,) and put 
into frames in order to preserve tbem. On one occasion, by the way, 
the city of Rhodes was saved, when Demetrius besieged it, because be 
feared a beautiful painting would be destroyed tbat was on the wall of 
one of the buildings. This painting of walls corresponded to our paper- 
hangings. What we do by putting on stained or colored paper, they 
did with the brush and the skill of the artist. The walls of Pompeii 
and Herculaneum are covered with most beautiful paintings, not merely 
ornamental patterns and arabesques, but there is such a mixture of 
the mere ornament, and of figures perfectly designed and colored, as to 
show that there was no distinction made then between the painter of 
a fresco and the bouse decorator; the artist urns Jdmself the performer of 
the tcorlc^ and so beautiful is it, that we have hardly anything in modern 
times superior to what is commonly found on the walls of the private 
bouses of cities which were in a province remote from the capital, and 
which bad no particular recommendation, that we know of, as seats of 
art. 

We have an instance, also, in modern times. Perhaps one of the 
most beautiful productions of modern art is the painting of tbat gallery 
to which I have alluded, where we see that BaffaeUe undertalces to do 
ivliatnoic one 'ivould never thinJc of committing to the hands of any one higher 
than a common house-decorator. iSIo nobleman, nor even a monarch, would 
think of asking the first artist of the kingdom to design the ornament 
of a gallery, scroll-work, and grotesques, or mechanical ornament, which 
now would be done by a common process or a common band. But in a 
former age there was no distinction made between what we now consider 
the higher and the lower sorts of art; hut the ichole of art teas regarded 
as one thing ; the greatest of artists considered it was his place to make 
even the smallest work — which might be insignificant in itself — great 
and noble, and to stamp the highest impress of art on the commonest 
and most ordinary commissions that were given to him. 

I will liow speak of a department of art which will interest you, 
perhaps, more than others — art applied to textile fabrics. There is a 
great difi'erence between what art can do in this department, and what 
it can do for those through which I have passed ; because the others 
are in their nature more lasting; they are to continue for a time; they 
are worth, therefore, the attention and care of artists of the very high- 
est class. The fashions of textile fabrics are perishable and fragile; 
they are capricious and changeable; therefore it is impossible to have 
the time, the leisure, and the same degree of labor expended on them 
as is necessary to produce a great work of art. I have read with con- 
siderable pleasure, and can bear testimony to the important suggestions 
in a pamphlet or lecture on this subject delivered in this city by Mr. 
21s 



322 IDENTIFICATION OF THE AETISAN AND ARTIST. 

Potter. Ho is quite correct in liis estimate of the somewhat exaggerated 
ideas ^Yhich may exist of the power of art in couuection with that which 
is not durable, aud which, iu reality, has its value, necessarily, for only 
a brief period. 1 agree, therefore, with him on that subject ; but at the 
same time I accept as very important his concession that, even with 
regard to that degree of art which is compatible with the nature of the 
substance on which it is to be displayed, we do not do what we ought to 
do, and that we fall short of our neighbors, the French ; or at least, that, 
while iu that which is of secondary character we have put forth such 
perseverauce aud study as to have attained an equality with them, 
there is a point in that which is more delicate and perfect which we have 
not reached. This is an important concession. It appears there is some 
reason why, in France, they can produce, even in i)riuted fabrics, a 
superior and more delicate artistic effect than can as yet be given here ; 
and I shall have to speak of the reason of this, which accords completely 
with what I have said, because in these works, which are not made ab- 
solutely by handicraft, but with the assistance of mechanical skill, there 
must be a distinction between the designer and the mere workman — a 
man who keeps the luachine iu motiou, aud puts the work through it; 
although, no doubt, it is necessary for the designer also to have a con- 
siderable acquaintance with the process by which his design is to be 
brought out in actual manufacture. I only wish to observe how the 
principle comes down here. You know the cartoons at Hampton Court, 
the most perfect and finished work of art of Eaffaelle. You would sup- 
pose these would be a labor of years, for they are all by his own hand, 
perhaps hardly aided by a disciple ; and nothing can be more perfect 
than the outline and artistic distribution of the parts of the painting. 
What were these cartoons 1 Simply drawings for the loom. Raffaelle 
did not thinlc it below him to draw patterns which were to he sent to Holland 
or Belgium, and there to he executed in the loom hy weavers of a carpet. 
This shows how the very highest ideal art may bend without degradation 
to assist practical art with all its powers and resources ; and where the 
union of the two in the same person cannot be got, then we have to think 
of the means by which the harmonious combination of both may be 
brought to produce one effect. While upon this subject, I am tempted 
to quote some beautiful lines upon the subject from one of our oldest 
but wisest poets; one who calls himself, upon his tomb, "the servant 
of Queen Elizabeth, the councilor of King James, and the friend of Sir 
Philip Sidney," Lord Brooke. Speaking as if it was considered in those 
days that the impulses of industry must be entirely regulated by the 
ruling power, he prescribes the duty of that iu regard to the productiou 
of manufactures : 

"To which eud, ijower must uurseries erect, 

And those trades cherish which use many hands; 

Yet such as more by pains than skill ctFect, 

And so by spirits more than vigor stand ; 

Whereby each creature may itself sustain, 

And who excel, add honor to their gain." 



IDENTIFICATION OF THE AETISAN AND ARTIST. J2o 

Anotlier remark I will read, wliicb comes in tlie same passage, because, 
it seems as, written in that age, prophetic of what may be considered 
the characteristic commercial policy of this day — that policy which par- 
ticnlarly owes, if not its origin, certainly its greatest impulse, to this 
city of Manchester. He says : 

"Now, tliougli wise kings do by advantage play 
With other states, by setting tax on toys. 
Which, if needs do permit, they justly may, 
As punishment for that vice which destroys, 
To real things yet must tlieij careful he, 
Here and ahroad, to keep them custom free; 
I'roviding clothes and food no burden hear, 
TJien, equally distributing of trade, 
So as no one rule what we eat or wear, 
Or any town the gulf of all be made ; 
For, though from few -wealth soon be had and known, 
And still the rich kept servile by their own, 
Yet no one city rich, or exchequer full. 
Gives states such credit, strength, or reputation. 
As that far-seeing, long-breathed wisdom will, 
Which, by the well disposing of creation. 
Breathes universal wealth, gives all content, 
Is both the mine and scale of government." 

Kow, gentlemen, I wish to come to some general results. We have 
seen, that so far, in every instance we have examined, wherever 
there has been real heaufy and perfection of worl; it has heen in con- 
sequence of the practical art, and of the fine art, tchich ought to ivorlc 
together, being most closely combined, and, as nearly as it can be done, in 
the same individual, or else in the most perfectly harmonious coopera- 
tion. Kow, we must watch very carefully whether the plans which are 
being proposed for artistic education — to be applied to production — 
wull tend to combine these two characters better, or further to sepa- 
rate them. I come to the conclusion, that if art has always flourished 
in its perfection when the two have been combined: and if, on the 
other hand, it is acknowledged that at present art is not applied 
to manufactures as it might be, and if it is, at the same time, the 
clearly visible fact that our artisans and workmen are not artists — I 
think I have a right to conclude that this separation, of the two characters 
is the cause of our inferiority, and that, therefore, the education ichich ice 
are to prepare for those tcho are to carry productive art to its perfection 
must be one ichich will combine, closer than is now done, these tico depart- 
ments of what I consider one and the same thing, Now, is it or can it bo 
so by the education -we are now giving f I observed that what I have 
said till now has been acknowledged long before by one of the greatest 
authorities iu matters of art — that is, Dr. Waagen, the director of the 
Eoyal Gallery at Berlin. He was examined, iu 1835, before a committee 
of the House of Commons on the improvement of arts and manufactures, 
and he said that "iu former times artists were more workmen, and the 



324 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 

workmen ^yere more artists, as in tlie time of Eaffaelle; and it is very 
desirable to restore this liappy connection." I was glad to find this 
corroboration of what I intended to say. He says again, " We have, 
then, to endeavor a connection between these two, tlie productive and 
beautiful art." Now, I ask what class of art was it which was in com- 
bination with productive art, to make it the parent of such a beautiful 
offspring in every department I It urns not loic art; it was not the 
mere knowing how to sketch an object from nature; it was not merely 
linear drawing ; it was not merely elementary art : hut it teas high art, 
and the highest art. In every one of these cases the state of society 
was such — from what causes I do not undertake here to say — that it 
did permit the highest artists devoting themselves to what now they 
contemn and would despise; and, on the other hand, there was such 
honor given to the product of industry, that, when it really had the 
stamp of beauty upon it, it rose of itself to the department of high art. 
Let me illustrate what I consider the danger to be guarded against 
by another example. When you go into a picture gallery now, and you 
see the portrait of a man, why do you care the least who that man was? 
You see the splendid effect; the countenance, which perhaps has not a 
beantiful feature in it, but which, by the noble expression, by the beau- 
tiful tone of color, hy the mtijestic character thrown around the head, 
by the harmony between the parts, even by the accessories, is made so 
glorious that you can gaze u[)on it for hours. It may be a doge, it 
may be a merchant, a soldier, or a prince; you care not: you see there, 
not the portrait, but you see the painting by Titian, or by Rembrandt, 
or Vandyke; and the artistic merit so completely swallows up all the 
idea of personality of him who is represented, that, unless it happens 
to be some one particularly known, you never take the trouble of inquir- 
ing whom the painter represents. And why sol Because then por- 
trait-painting had not become a distinct department of art. There was 
no such thing then as a person who called himself a portrait-painter, 
who thought he could produce a noble likeness of* man by merely giving 
a facsimile of his features; but portraits were paintings by men who 
w^ho could have painted an historical painting of the highest character, 
and to whom it would have been thought not unbecoming to commit the 
greatest artistic works iniaginable. But in modern times the portrait- 
painter is an entirely different person, and the pictures produced by 
that class of artists are unfortunately of but little value except to those 
who have a personal interest in the subject of the portrait. You know, 
too, that every one of these portraits, which cover such a vast extent of 
the wall of the exhibition, will be transferred to the place of honor over 
the chimney piece in the house of the owner; and, when his son grows 
up, it will be put on one side, that a portrait of the inheritor may take 
its place: and in the next generation it will be transferred to some other 
more out-of-the-way corner of the house, until at last it will find a more 
ignominious position than Caesar's dust, stopping ui) a bunghole to keep 



IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 325 

out tbe inclemency of the weather. From what does this come ? Simpli/ 
from the attempt to divide art into parts — to say that there shall be a class 
of men who can do a portrait, but who cannot do a historical or other 
great painting. And you find a difference when some of the great artists 
of the present day — for there are some truly great artists in England — 
do put their hands to what is considered another department of art, and 
paint the portrait of a friend, or of any one else ; it becomes in itself 
a fine creation of art, and it will not perish when the person is forgotten; 
but it will be known by the name of the person who painted it, and not 
by the name of the person who sat for it. In this way, too, high art, 
when applied to a lower branch, raises its character. This is what ought 
to be the fundamental basis of artistic education. If we really mean to 
make more than improved designers or draughtsmen for mechanical 
work, we must have great artists who are not afraid to loorlc mechanically 
at the same time that they are great artists ; we must have the feeling 
that art commits no unworthy condescension in giving immediate assist- 
ance to the processes of production. The famous artists of whom I 
have been speaking were, as we have seen, men who worked at their 
business, and yet were not considered as working menj they were con- 
sidered as artists, and treated as such. And it is that, I am afraid, 
which makes the great diiference between our time and theirs. Art, 
unfortunately, is not now considered so noble asto give rank and station, 
as it did in those days. I do not mean that the great artists, those who 
devote themselves to what are considered works of high art, do not 
receive patronage and countenance, and even high honor; but we find 
that in those days such distinctions were bestowed on the artists them- 
selves in productive toil. There is not, perhaps, any part of the history 
of art more interesting and beautiful than those portions of Cellini's 
memoirs which show us the manner in which he was treated ; he used 
to go, when he pleased, to the pope to take him drawings and models; 
he speaks of going in without even waiting to be announced — going in 
the evening, after laboring all day in his workshop, as a matter of course. 
He was treated in the same manner by the gTand duke of Tuscany, and 
by the king, Francis the First ; when he was working for him, the king used 
to go at any hour and visit him; and Cellini gives rather a characteristic 
anecdote, proving how very familiar such visits were. One day, while 
at work, and, as usual, rather in ill temper, an apprentice or servant did 
something which displeased Cellini, and he roughly took the youth by 
the shoulders and pushed him across the room. The apprentice fell 
against the door, which was just then opened by the king, and he fell 
fiiirly into the king's arms. Such was the familiar way in which kings 
and great personages used to visit Cellini, and find him in his apron 
among his workmen. But I believe, myself, that it is not patronage 
which art wants in modern times. Patronage it has; you, gentlemen, 
here, many of you, I know, would not scruple to go far beyond the mere 
calculation of interest, were it in our power to raise, by your patronage, 



326 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 

any one vrho gave evidence of genius, and reward liim as lie deserved. 
It is not patronage, bat honor, that art wants. 

Now, speaking of the department to which I have just alluded, there 
is a passage worth quoting from Mr. Ward's book, "The World and its 
Workshop,*' on the difl'erence between English and French designers in 
the textile fabrics. " France has studiously cultivated the art of design, 
and advanced its professors to the rank of gentlemen; in England, on 
the contrary, with some exception, it has been degraded to a mechanical 
employment, and remunerated at weekly wages. France has, in conse- 
quence, a species of industry to which we have no claim — the pro- 
duction of design for exportation." Now, having drawn these general 
conclusions, we must come to some practical applications. The first, 
that we must avoid making too great a separation between that char- 
acter of art which it is proposed, now, to impart to our products and 
the higher dej^artmeuts of arts. I have observed that the sei)aration 
of art iuto two departments, high and low, seems to be dangerous, 
and it will, perhaps, prove fatal. You may educate a great number of 
good desiguers, persons who will make tolerable drawings, and with 
rapidity; but the influence upon these which are considered the lower 
stages of art must come, not from below, but from above; it is only art 
in its highest department that gives the true feeling of proportion, the 
right sense of harmony, whether in color or in design, that gives also 
that sense and feeling of the adaption and propriety of things to their 
purpose, which is indispensable. Any one must be surprised at seeing 
tKe extraordinary combination of the styles of different countries and 
times in our works of art, from the want of a regular artistic education. 
I therefore think that the first thing which must be done is to try an 
education which will not give merely a great degree of elementary 
artistic power, but that, while we give what may be called the rudiments 
of art to every one, if possible, so as to give them all the opportunity 
of developing a higher taste and power, if thej^ possess it, we must not, 
in looking beyond that, satisfy ourselves with the idea that we can 
educate a great number of artisans to a middling degree of artistic 
feeling, in the hope that thereby we may influence the character of our 
manufactures; but we must endeavor to combine the two, to bring 
down the high art to mingle with the lower, in the feeling that it is the 
common interest and duty of artists to im^irove the ijroductive arts, 
and to carry into actual icorlc — not merely into design — the powers which 
they possess. 

The evidence of Mr. Skene, before the committee of the House of 
Commons, is to the same effect. He and Mr. Potter, and every other 
writer I have seen, agreed that we are not equal with the French in the 
more delicate operations of art applied to manufactures, and especially 
in textile fabrics; and he gives this reason: "The system of France is 
very different from that of this country, because in France artists of the 
first eminence employ their time — and make it a most pi^ofitable part 



IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 327 

of tlieir eaiploymeut — in pattern-drawing, and tbey are paid very liigli 
Ijrices by the manufacturers." This, then, accounts for everything, 
because it is the union of high art in design with manufacture that 
makes the French superior. The evidence of M. Coquerel, who is 
himself an eminent architect and designer, shows that a distinguished 
artist, who became president of the French Academy of Arts at Kome, 
and one of the first of his day, was employed at Sevres, in the china, 
manufacture; and he states, also, that of fourteen or fifteen French 
artists of the first rank, educated at Eome, with whom he was acquaint- 
ed, many were scattered through France assisting in the difierent 
manufactures. Fiu<l ing the market for the highest class of artistic works 
so limited, and so full, these men, instead of sinking into despair or com- 
mitting suicide, as has been seen in similar cases, turned their high 
talent to the assistance and iniprovement of manufactures ; and they are 
not thought to have dishonored themselves by doing this ; nor is it con- 
sidered their superior education was thrown away npon them in quali- 
fying them for the posts they now occupy. Why should it not be so 
here? Let any one go into the exhibition of paintings in London, and 
look around the walls; he will, jierhaps, find only a small number of 
artists who can, with any hope of advancing themselves in the path to 
eminence, continue in what they may consider the highest department 
of art; and I cannot but think there are many in distress, persons who 
might be mailing an honorable livelihood, if they would apply their 
talents to what they would wrongly consider, perhaps, a degrading 
employm.ent, but which is most honorable — the improvement of art in 
its productive department. 

The second step which seems to me of the greatest importance, is to 
familiarize the people with art. This I know is a very trite topic, and 
one which can hardly be considered to require from us much attention. 
I know it is proposed to make museums in every part, and I think that 
excellent. But we must observe how it is that that familiarity with art 
has been obtained by other people; it has been, not so much by having 
places to which people were to go to see art, but by rendering it familiar 
ever^'w^here to their eyes. The ancient Greeks, proceeding from other 
considerations, which we, as Christians, could not for a moment wish to 
have considered, such as the public spectacles, and feasts, and ceremonies 
of Greece, filled their whole country with works of art. Any one that 
will read the works of Pausanias, or the first book alone, will see how 
impossible it was for an Athenian to go ten yards in any direction in 
the city without seeing some beautiful work of art. On everj^ side there 
were monuments, and statues, and temples, of the most beautiful work- 
manship and design; and the peojjle became imi^regnated with the sense 
of artistic beauty; and therefore whoever, even a meclianic^'putMsliand to 
any loorlc, icorlced under the influence of that feeling. In a later period, in 
Eome, there was the same plan of filling the public buildings, the streets 
and squares of the city, with sculptured monuments and with paintings 



328 IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 

liung up so that the i^eople could gaze on them ; and Pliny gives us a 
long list of paintings put up by different emperors; and, byway of 
showing what was thought by the Eomaus of our uorthe'rn ancestors, he 
says, that among those paintings on the walls of the- Forum there was 
one of a shepherd ; antl when a German ambassador came to Eome, he 
was asked at what price would he value that picture'? — which shows 
that it was considered by the Eomans to be worth a high price, quite 
beyond a German's estimate; he, having so little idea of art that he did 
not consider that question applicable to any possible artistic merit, said, 
"Why, I would not have the man, if he were alive and breathing, if you 
would give him to me," — he considering it was the value of the man, as 
a servant, and not of the picture, that he was to regard. In a later age, 
at Florence, Yasari tells us how he and Michael Angelo, and other 
artists, used to meet together, and then go from church to church to 
see tbe beautiful w^orks of art in each, and then to discuss and criti- 
cise them. In the middle ages it was the CJmrch, no doubt, ^^hich gave 
to public admiration the specimens of fine art, and kept them before 
the minds of all, and, in fact, made the people be artists. The conse 
quence of this was, that, as Cellini tells us, when his statue of Perseus, 
after having been finished, was put into a public i)lace, and when he 
uncovered it for the first time, "It so i^leased God, that, as soon as ever 
my work was beheld by the populace, they set up so loud a shout of 
applause, that I began to be comforted for the mortifications I had 
undergone; and there w-ere sonnets in my praise every day fastened up 
on the gate, and the very day I finished my work twenty more sonnets 
were set up, with the greatest praises of the work, and Latin and Greek 
X)oems were i)ublished on the occasion." So well had the Italian i^ublic 
learned how to appreciate a noble work of art! 

]^ow, I look forward wnth no small expectation to what will be done 
by the new exhibition which is ])repariug, (this refers to the Manchester 
exhibition,) because I know that great pains have been taken to collect 
casts and copies of whatever is most beautiful in every department of 
art, beginning with the most remote period, down to the present tiuie; 
and if it be really open to the public, and if, especially, it be open for 
some portion, at least, of that day on -which alone the artisan can enjoy it^ 
then I am sure it will do more toward raising the feeling of the people 
for art, and consequently toward introducing an improved practice, 
than any set of lessons or any teaching could do. A very strong remark 
is made by Dr. Waagen, before that committee, when asked if they shut 
up the museum at Berlui as they do in England, at certain times, to 
enable iirtists to copy; he says, "By no means, because I believe art is 
far more promoted, by the people seeing it than it is by any number of 
artists making copies." But it appears to me there has been a deficiency 
in the general education among us in the matter of artistic culture. I can- 
not but be struck with this when I see that among all the colleges and 
schools belonging to this country, so respectable and richly endowed, 



IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND AETIST. 329 

there is not one of them, so far as Ilcnoic, icJiich has made any collection or 
museum that might train the young men tcho are educated there in a famil- 
iarity icith art. I do not think auy college iu either of our universities, 
Eton, or any of the schools, keeps before the eyes of its young- men exam- 
ples of painting, sculpture, and of other arts of design, which might 
accustom them during their early years to admire and appreciate art, 
and thus to contribute afterward their influence to elevate its character. 
At the same time, I must observe with sincere pleasure that this is not 
the case with our Catholic colleges; that, poor and unendowed as they 
are, there is not one of them w^hich has not striven, at the same time 
while it has provided itself with a library, far beyond the proportion of 
its means, if compared with what others have done, to provide also some 
works of art, and keep them constantly before the students. At Stony- 
hurst there are many beautiful things, carving, lapidary, silver-work, 
and jewelry, especially for church purposes. Ushaw, or St. Cuthbert's 
College, near Durham, is another instance; the walls there are covered 
with paintings, many of excellent masters, and engravings o* great 
beauty; there is a museum filled with specimens of art; the sacristy of the 
chapel is growing with proofs of the encouragement given there to 
modern artists, as well as with carefully-collected specimens of ancient 
art. 

I may be allowed to revert also to the days which I spent iu St. Mary's 
College, at Oscott. There, through the munificence of a departed noble- 
man, and under the guidance of the refined taste of the greatest artist of 
this day, because a practical disciple of all the arts — Mr. Pugin — there 
was collected a museum which would have been worthy of a larger estab- 
lishment ; beautiful specimens of carving, of enameling, and metal- work 
of every sort, so valuable that persons were sent from the department of 
practical art on purpose to make molds and copies of the specimens; and 
almost all the cloisters were covered with paintings, some by very respect- 
able artists, and others good copies. The students were thus brought 
up in familiarity with choice objects of art, which has had an influence 
npon their lives since, and induced them to patronize and encourage art. 
That collection, moreover, was, in the most liberal way, thrown open to 
every one who chose to come and visit us ; we never saw any feeling of 
narrow partisanship or exclusiveness of religious distinction; the house 
used to be visited every day by parties of people from the neighborhood; 
and nothing gave me greater pleasure than to see the young men who 
used to come there, and who were permitted to walk freely through the 
house. There was, at no great distance, a very considerable establish- 
ment for education, richly endowed, and having everything that could 
encourage the study of literature ; but it did not possess, as it appeared, 
a single object of artistic interest within its walls; and often did the 
students of that establishment come up to St. Mary's and roam freely 
through it, and receive every courtesy. And that was at a time when 
Oscott was considered almost the cente'r of a strong proselytizing ten- 
dency, and I know that personally I was much more engaged in contro- 



330 IDENTIFICATIOX OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 

versy tlieu tliau I am at tlie present moment; and it was pleasing, 
therefore, to see that there was no feeling on the subject which could 
make it be apprehended as unpleasant for those young men to come to 
us. Bodies of those young men used to come to St. Mary's with letters 
from their principal, couched in the most courteous terms, asking, as a 
favor, that his students might be allowed to attend the establishment, 
which could have very little other merit to many than as it was filled 
with works of art ; and on one occasion he informed me that, when any 
of the students of his house were particularly well-conducted, and had 
esi)ecially distinguished themselves, the best reward he could give them 
was to send them with a letter to us, to come and see Oscott College. 
Now, it will give you all pleasure to know that this generous, liberal, and 
gentlemanly-minded individual, the head of that neighboring college, 
was — the Rev. Prince Lee. 

One thing more, I will observe, is important^ — that we must not nar- 
row the sphere of art. There is a tendency to do so in this practical scheme 
of education. I observed in the late report, which may be considered 
as a programme of the department of practical art, that there are 
prizes proposed for artistic designs in three different departments — for 
printed garments, fabrics for carpets, and for paper-hangings. Now, 
one of the conditions of the four drawings to be sent in to compete for 
the prize in all three instances is this : "the designs to be flat, not imita- 
tive, but conventional, without relief, shadow, or perspective." Now, 
that is the mediaival i)rinciple, and cannot apply to other styles of art; 
and you arc narrowing the sphere of art if you dictate, as a necessary rule 
of all designs in those three departments of productive art, that there 
shall not be relief or perspective in the painting; that the flowers must 
all be of one color, and that there must be no shadow, and no attempt 
to copy nature, but that the forms must be all "conventional," that is, 
such as a rose spread out into four parts, with a point between them, 
and the lily changed into a fleur-de-lis, and no natural forms to be truly 
imitated. Now, it is folly to think of competing with French art if our 
artisans are to be educated- on that princii)le, because the beauty of de- 
sign where nature is copied — where the flower glows in its own colors — 
will carry the taste of the public, and I think rightly, in preference to a 
series of flat and unshaped designs. I think it is a wrong principle; and 
why? Artists will tell you that the carpet is nothing more than a back- 
ground for the furniture; that the hanging of a wall, paper or whatever 
it may be, is nothing but a background for the furniture ; and therefore 
that these must be quiet and of a lower tint, with nothing brilliant, and 
no attempt at the representation of natural objects. Now, I deny this 
principle; they are not background. The i^apering of the wall is in the 
place of the ancient painting on the wall ; and I do not see why, if you 
only avoid whatever may offend the eye — such as false perspective — 
there should not be all the beauty and glow of natural objects given to 
the ])ictured papering of the wall. If we are to collect museums, to put 
before our young artists specimens from the paintings of Pompeii, and 



IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ARTIST. 331 

then to tell tbeui tliat these wall paintings are done on a false principle, 
because they are good representations of natural objects, and not merely 
conventional drawings, how are we consistent? And if you tell a young- 
man who designs patterns for carpets that there must be nothing there 
which would not be, naturally, in such a position — that there must be no 
sky or flowers there — then you go to make it a mere pavement and noth- 
ing better. I should say that the real carpet should take the place of 
the ancient mosaic. The ancients thought it not amiss to represent whole 
scenes on their pavement, with sky and rivers, men and horses; and Pliny 
tells us there were many celebrated men for this sort of work in Greece j 
but the most celebrated of all was Sosias ; and he says among his other 
works at Pergamus there was a remarkable one which was called ''The 
Unswei)t House." It was a representation which certainly does not give 
us a very good idea of cleanliness of domestic habits — of a floor on which 
all sorts of refuse had been left to lie about, fragments of meat, and the 
shells of crawfish, and everything which untidy people might leave after 
their meals. Such were the notions the ancients had of designs. I 
should, therefore, be inclined to fear that if toe began to deal lo'itJi art 
2ipon a too confined basis, and on principles which belong only to one 
period of the history of art, and if we now insist on their being made the 
sole basis of artistic education, we shall produce cramped and narrow- 
minded artists, and never enable them to take advantage of the great 
classical patterns to improve their taste. 

In concluding, I think among the greatest errors that language has 
imposed upon us, there is none more remarkable than the sort of antag- 
onism which is established in common language as between nature and 
art. We speak of art as being, in a certain manner, the rival of nature 
and opposed to it ; we contrast them — we speak of the superiority of 
nature, and depreciate art as compared with it. On the other hand, 
what is art but the effort that is made by human sJcill to seize upon the trans- 
itory features of nature, to give them the stamp of perpetuity f If we 
study nature, we see that in her general laws she is unchangeable ; tbe 
year goes on in its course, and day after day pass magnificently through 
the same revolutions. But there is not one single moment in which 
either nature, or anything that belongs to her, is stationary. The earth, 
the planets, and the sun and moon, are not for any instant in exactly 
the same relation mutually as they were in another instant. The face 
of nature is constantly changing; and what is it that preserves that for 
us but art, which is not the rival, but the child, as iccll as the handmaid, of 
nature f You find, when you watch the setting sun, how beautiful and 
how bright for an instant! then how it fades away! the sky and sea are 
covered with darkness, and the departed light is reflected, as it had 
been just now upon the water, still upon your mind. In that one evan- 
escent moment a Claude or a Stanfield dips his })encil in the glowing 
sky, and transfers its hue to his canvas ; and ages after, by the lamp 
of night, or in the brightness of the morning, we can contemplate that 
evening scene of nature, and again renew in ourselves all the emotions 



332 IDENTIFICATION OF THE AETISAN AND ARTIST. 

which the reality could impart. And so it is with every other object. 
Each of us is, but for the present moment, the same as he is in this 
instant of his i)ersonal existence through which he is now passing. Ho 
is the child, the boy, the man, the aged one bending feebly over the last 
few steps of his career. You wish to possess him as he is now, in his 
youthful vigor, or iu the maturity of his wisdom, and a Eembraudt, or 
a Titian, or a Herbert seizes that moment of grace, or of beauty, or of 
sage experience ; and he stamps indelibly that loved image on his can- 
vas; and for generations it is gazed on with admiration and with love. 
We must not pretend a fight against nature, and say that we icill mahc art 
different from what she is. I will read you some beautiful lines, which 
show how our art must be derived from nature. I translate them from 
the excellent poem of Schiller, addressed to artists : 

The clioicest blossom which the parterre warms, 

Iu cue rich posy skillfully combiued — 
Siicli, infaut Art crept first from Nature's arms: 

Then are the posies in «ne Avreath entwined. 
A second Art, in manlier beariug, stands, 
Fair work of man, created in his hands. 

I believe the idea of these beautiful lines is taken fii'om the anecdote 
which Pliny has preserved to us of the contest of art between Pausias 
the painter and Glycera the flower-girl ; she used to combine her flowers 
with such exquisite beauty that they excited the admiration of the chief 
of artists, and he did not think it beneath his art to copy on the can- 
vas the operation of her naturally-instructed fingers 5 and then she, iu 
her turn, again would rival the picture, and produce a more beautiful 
bouquet still; and the j)ainter, with his pencil, would again rival her, 
and produce by his avl the same effect as she had done with the flowers 
of nature. Let us therefore loolc on art hut as the highest image that can be 
made of nature. Consequently, while religion is the greatest and noblest 
mode in which we acknowledge the magnificeut and all-wise majesty of 
Godj and what he has done both for the spiritual and the physical exist- 
ence of man, let tis loolc ujpoii art as hut the most graceful and natural trib- 
ute of homage 7ve can pay to Eim for the heauties ichich he has so lavishly 
scattered over creation. Art, then, is to my mind, and I trust to you all, 
a' sacred and a reverend thing, and one which must be treated with all 
nobleness of feeling and with all dignity of aim. We must not depress 
it; the education of our art must always be tending higher and higher; 
we must fear the possibility of our creating a mere lower class of artists 
which would degrade the higher departments, instead of endeavoring to 
blend and harmonize every department, so that there shall cease to exist 
in the minds of men the distinction between high and low art. I will con- 
clude with another beautiful sentiment from the same poem: 

The bee may teach thee an industrious care ; 
The worm, in skill, thy master thou must own; 
With higher spirits, ivisdom thou dost share. 
But Art, O man! hast tJiou aloue. 



THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 



Ey M. Baeixet, of the Institute of France. 



Translated for the Smithsonian Institution 

BY JOHN STEARNS, M. D. 

The diamond, called by the Greelis " adamas," from its hardness and 
iufrangihility, has attracted the attention of amateurs of i^recious stones 
from the most remote antiquity. 

In regard to hardness, says Lucretius, diamonds are placed in the 
first rank, as they resist the blow of a hammer. 

"Adamantina sax.i 
Prima acie coustant, ictus contemnere siieta." 

The second of these peculiarities is much more easily contested than 
the first; for notwithstanding all the fabulous assertions of ancient 
authors, the diamond, which scratches all other bodies and can be 
scratched by none, is easily broken by percussion, and is susceptible of 
cleavage, that is to say, of being readily divided by pressing- steadily the 
sharp blade of a steel instrument in the direction of the natural seams 
of the stone. 

When the rude Helvetians captured the treasures which were found 
in the tent of Charles the Bold, more sumptuous than those of the King, 
they divided with their hatchets some of the diamonds of this prince, to 
the great detriment of their value, as the entire stones were worth much 
more than the pieces into wliich they were divided. If we examine the 
many compilations from the ancients made at the time of the renaissance, 
w'e sball find a mass of undigested learning on the subject of gems. 
Notwithstanding the uncertainty of the names which he applies to many 
of the precious stones, Pliny is still highly esteemed as a compiler from 
ancient works now lost, and as an author of the first class. It was he 
who dared to undertake the composition of a history of nature analogous 
to what had been done before his time in regard to nations. The term 
natural history has become so familiar to us that the idea it conveyed, 
namely, a history of all things that contribute to make np a world, 
minerals, vegetables, and animals, has almost entirely lost the original 
magnitude of its signification. And in this connection it is worth while 
to pause for a moment to remark that science in its progress, as it has 
become more real and important, has gradually become more and more 
modest. Where, as with the Greeks, the word imture, physls^ signified 
the generation or origin of beings, with us it is restricted to the system 



Oo4 THE DIAMOND AND OTHEE PRECIOUS STONES. 

of objects that constitute tlie physical universe, and is not applied to 
the occult cause bj^ which they were iiroduced. Here, as everywhere 
else, science, iu order to make real progress, has abandoned ambitious 
metaphysical speculations for sagacious observations and wild hy- 
potheses for sober facts. 

It would be interesting to trace the history of gems in connection with 
the history of man from the times of A.aron's ephod to those of the pas- 
toral cross of the archbishop of Paris; from the time of the presenting 
of rubies, sapphires, emeralds, diamonds, topazes, sardonj-xes, ame- 
thysts, the carbuncle and loadstone, as offerings iu the temple of Jupiter 
and other jiagan divinities, to that of an accumulation of wealth of 
a similar character prior to the sixteenth century in the treasury of 
Christian churches. 

But, without attempting this labor, we may observe, in iiassing, that 
these precious gifts, the offerings of the piety of the faithful, have not 
always been faithfully preserved. When, during the reformation of 
Calvin and Luther iu Germany, and later, iu the time of the French revolu- 
tion, this votive wealth was delivered over to the civil authorities, it was 
discovered that many fraudulent substitutions had been made, and that 
paste had very often been substituted for the primitive gem. ■ 

The famous London Exposition of 1851 prided itself upon the posses- 
sion of the great diamond, the Koh-i-noor, (Mountain of Light,) captured 
from the Maha-radjas of India, and presented to Queen Victoria. As 
to the antiquity of this gem, it is asserted that it was worn by Kama, 
King of Anga, three thousand and one years before our era. Observe 
the preciseness of this date. I have nothing to offer in objection to it, 
and am even read^^ to grant the truth of the assertion ; for who can 
prove the contrary' ? We can say, however, quite as much in behalf of 
the truth of the marvelous properties ascribed to precious stones by 
antiquity and the middle ages, and admit without hesitation, as they 
have done, the influence of the planets and other celestial bodies. For 
the cure of all diseases of a moral or nervous character, wherein the 
imagination exercised a predominant influen(;e, gems were the sovereign 
remedy. In declaring to a patient that an emerald, placed at the head 
of his bed, would cure hypochondria, drive away nightmare, calm palpi- 
tations of the heart, enliven the imagination, or dissipate mental troubles, 
success was assured by the faith alone iu the efScacj^ of the remedy. The 
exijectancy of cure in these affections was itself the cause of the cure, 
and in all of the countless cases in which the moral exercised an influ- 
ence over the physical, an imaginary cause must produce a real effect. 
In short, a constant teudenc}^ to self-deception of the human mind, which 
leads us to regard only accidental successes, and to take no note of 
failures, contributed to maintain the belief in the hidden virtues of 
precious stones. It is not above half a century since diamonds and 
other gems were borrowed from rich families to be applied in the cure 
of local diseases. Care, however, was taken when the jewel was intro- 



THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 335 

dnced into the nioutb, for toothacbe or sore-tliroat, to secure it by a 
string, to prevent its being swallowed by tlie patient. 

The study of precious stones, which may seem frivolous when these 
are considered only as objects of oriiauient, rises in importance when 
looked upon in connection with commerce, optics, and mineralogy. The 
classic Haiiy, creator of crystallographic mineralogy, has not disdained 
to publish a book on precious stones, in which he leaves nothing to be 
desired in the way of description. In his prefoce he acknowledges his 
obligations to M. Achard, mineralogist and lapidary, of Paris; and I 
ought to say as much for M. Achard, the son, without whose aid I should 
not have felt able to compose this article. 

What is the diamond ? It is the most rare and the most priceless of 
minerals. What is carbon ? It is one of the most common of known 
substances, found in the earth in immense quantities and furnished by 
all plants and trees in great abundance. The diamond is priceless, 
since one of pure quality, of the weight of a twenty-five-franc piece — 
that is, of 123 carats — will have a money value of at least four millions 
of francs. Kow, the value of an, equal weight of carbon is scarcely any- 
thing, and yet the two are identical ; the diamond is only carbon crys- 
tallized. Every one knows that if a body is dissolved in a liquid — for 
example, common salt, saltpeter, sugar, or alum, in w^ater — the deposit 
left by evaporation of the liquid will present regular geometrical forms. 
Salt assumes a form identical wdth that of x>laying-dice, to which the 
Greeks gave the name of cubes ; saltpeter jiresents elongated bodies 
with four flat sides and square ends ; sugar takes the form known as 
rock-candy; and finally alum crystallizes into pointed pyramids. This 
latter form is precisely the same as that under which nature presents 
us with the crystals of carbon called diamonds. 

As soon as the character of the diamond was discovered, chemistry 
aspired to emulate nature in producing the gem from carbon ; but up to 
this time science has been bafiied in her attempts — nature has not been 
induced to reveal the secret of her i)rocess. These geometrical products 
of nature, when not worn by attrition, are as smooth and as i)olished as 
the finest cut glass. Colored crystals are also produced by nature as 
w^ell as white ones. The red ruby, the blue sapphire, the green emerald, 
the yellow topaz, the violet amethyst, and the crimson garnet are all 
the products of her unrivalled laboratory. 

Chemistry, it is true, furnishes us with hundreds of crystals of differ- 
ent forms, according to the character of the substances of whi(5li they 
are composed, and many of them are not found in mineralogy. Nature, 
however, as if by w^ay of revenge, has produced in the course of ages, 
and under the influence of actions scarcely as yet recognized, crystals 
which art, directed by science, has not been able to imitate. Such is 
emphatically the diamond, and many other minerals not embraced among 
gems. To the study of these geometrical forms, whether the products 
of nature or of art, the celebrated Haiiy, about the beginning of this 



336 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 

century, ^^ave many years of his life, and out of this study created a 
new science, one of the titles to glory of the human mind. 

Pythai^oras and Plato had without doubt. given attention to crystal- 
lography, since in their schools they announced the marvelous propo- 
sition that nature, in the depths of her recesses, occupies herself with 
geometrical problems, and that God geometrizes incessantly, 

Aei deog yEC^iierpet. 

The old alchemists contended that the philosopher's stone could be 
produced from the commonest substance possible, and nature seems to 
have favored this idea in producing the most costly gems from the most 
worthless materials. She converts, as we have seen, a small quantity 
of black and friable carbon into a transparent diamond of a liardness 
and brilliancy uuequaled. She takes a little of the glazing which the 
potter uses in his ordinary operations, and, coloring it with a trace of 
iron, produces a ruby or a sapphire. From a little worthless pebble, with 
slight additions, she forms the topaz, the emerald, and the amethyst. 
Some of the last-named gems have been reproduced in the furnaces of 
Sevres in the same manner, without doubt, as nature has elaborated 
them, in her vast volcanic workshops, by those mysterious operations 
■which have giv.en to Vesuvius the title of the great crystal manufactory. 
Every one knows of the sarcasm with which Rousseau reproached the 
chemist Kouelle, demanding of him that he should produce corn from 
the chemical materials of which it was composed, rather than destroy 
that already made in its analysis. What would he say if he had seen the 
chemist produce carbon from the diamond, as readily as from a bit of 
wood or sugar, while he was powerless from the carbon to create the 
precious gem ? 

It might seem at first sight that those countries containing diamond 
mines, or mines of crystallized carbon, were the most favored; but this is 
far from being the case. The mines of Golconda, and of Visapour in 
India, of Brazil, of the Ural, and of Borneo, are not Avorth a moiety of 
those deposits of coal with which nature, a little parsimonious in regard 
to France, and still more so toward the vast territory of Russia, has 
endowed Belgium, England, and to an immense extent the United States. 

By way of illustration, we can state that England, with all her wealth, 
does not import precious stones of a value greater than twelve or thir- 
teen millions of francs, while her mines of coal yield a value of five hun- 
dred millions of francs per annum. How precious is this coal! 

The diamond is commonly found imbedded in a sort of reddish cement. 
Sometimes the rock containing them requires to be broken, and often 
the sand at the base of torrents, or the earth which has received the 
waste of diamond-bearing rocks, is gathered, and submitted to frequent 
washings by machinery, to exclude the gravel and stones i^rior to the 
hand-washing which secures the gem. 

Diamonds are always found covered by a rough coat, which is, in fact, 
the i^roduct of the chemical action of the crystalline formation. JS'early 



THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 337 

all the other crystals, aud especially those of quartz;, are much more 
brilliant iu their natural state. Had Socrates, who regarded the natural 
man as a block of marble, from which art can create a beautifui statue, 
known of the transformation created by the cutting of the rough dia- 
mond, he would certainly have preferred this comparison. The dif- 
ference, however, in money value between the cut and the uncut diamond 
is not 80 great as might be supposed. For if the rough diamond loses 
half its weight by cutting, on the other hand, its value is doubled by 
the operation, without estimating the dust remaining, which has a 
value in the arts from its being employed in polishing many gems as 
well as the diamond itself. 

The ancients do not appear to have had a suspicion that the diamond 
could be cut. They only knew it in its natural condition as a stone, 
having eight triangular surfaces, and in every direction presenting a 
double pyramid. 

Louis de Berqueu, an artist of Bruges, about the middle of the fifteenth 
century, conceived the idea of cutting it at first by rubbing two diamonds, 
one against the other. If, in fact, we cement two diamonds on wooden 
handles, and rub point against point, we shall, little by little, grind them 
away, and obtain an artificial unpolished surface. To polish this surface 
we must use a circular plate of steel or of cast iron, like a grindstone, 
placed horizontally. But it is easy to see that if a diamond is merely 
placed against this grindstone, it would require a century to produce a 
polished surface. All that can be obtained by this process are grooves 
cut in the iron or steel. To effect the desired object, a happy thought 
suggested itself to Berqueu to sprinkle the surface, against which the 
diamond was rubbed, with diamond dust mixed with oil. The surface 
obtained in this way is regular, smooth, and perfectly polished. After 
the discovery that facets could be produced in the diamond, experience 
indicated in each case how a particular stone should be cut to produce 
the most advantageous eff'ect. 

There are two principal styles of cutting. The first is called the 
brilliant. In order to produce this style, the diamond to be cut must be 
pointed. If not naturally in this form, it must be reduced to it artificially. 
The points on the upper surface are ground down a little more than one- 
half, an;! those on the lower or under surface one-eighth. Then the light, 
entering through the larger upper surfaces, strikes the bottom surfaces, 
is reflected backward, traverses the side facets, is refracted, and produces 
prismatic effects. Every one knows what is the result when white light 
is decomposed into the colors of the rainbow, and coming to the eye, 
with every variety of hue, i:»roduces what is called the luster of the 
diamond. For this effect the light should not be voluminous, for there 
might be neutralization of these colors, and white light be reproduced. 
Nor should the facets be too large, for then the eye would receive all 
these colors at once, which would also reproduce white light. 

The large diamonds, the Eegent, belonging to the crown of France, 
22 S 



338 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 

and the Koh-i-noor, belonging; to that of England, are cut with facets 
too large, and not sufBcientlj^ numerous. It would have been better if 
the large ui)per surface, called the table, had been cut in a series of 
smaller facets, made to slope toward the edge, as is done for small 
colored stones. 

The following is my method of studying the effect of a diamond : I 
pierce a hole in a white card a little larger than the diamond to be ex- 
amined. Then passing a ray of sunlight or that of the electric lamp 
through this hole, I place th(^ stone in the path of this ray, at a certain 
distance from the hole, behind the card, so that it shall receive the light 
on the table of its anterior surface. The rays reflected from the table, 
and also those which pass through into the diamond, are reflected back 
on the card, where they exhibit a white image of the table, surrounded 
by small bands iridescent with all the prismatic colors. j!^ow, if the 
colors are considerable in number, well separated, and equally spread 
around the white reflection of the table, the diamond has been well cut. 
Each of the bands indicates one of the lusters of the stone, which may 
therefore be counted, and, consequently, in this way, the number, the 
quality, and the symmetry of the lusters can be determined ; errors in 
cutting can be detected ; and the form to produce the best effect can be 
ascertained. I have always intended to undertake by this method the 
study of the principal diamonds of France, but have always postponed 
it, being, like Homer, too much pressed with other work. 

The second kind of cutting is called, for what reason I know not, the 
rose. It consists in leaving a large, smooth surface underneath, and in 
covering the upper surface with a great number of small facets, in order 
to produce on the face, by the reflection from below, lusters and colors 
similar to those of the brilliant. This cutting is used for stones of a 
flat form, the weight of which would bo too much diminished in reduc 
ing them to the form of the brilliant. In this manner the great Indian 
diamond of England was originally cut, before it was presented to the 
Queen ; in cutting it as a brilliant it has been reduced from ISO to about 
103 carats. It is scarcely necessary to say that, by the process I have 
given, the rose-cutting can be as well verified as that of the brilliant. 
[n both, large facets should be avoided even for the larger diamonds. 
As to the identity of the diamond known as the " Sancy," the name of 
one of thecai)tains of Henry the Fourth, there is no agreement among 
connoisseurs. All the diamonds which pretend to this name weigh from 
55 to 70 carats, and are cut in the form of a flattened pear, almost 
round, a. shape called the pendalogue, having facets above and below, 
with a small, flat surface on the top. Several imitation diamonds cut 
ill this style have given admirable effects, and I think that it should 
have been adopted in the cutting of both the crown diamond of Eng- 
land and the rough diamond, known as the ISiar of the South, presented 
to the Academy of Sciences by M. Dufrenoy. This kind of cutting, 
which I venture to call the Satwy^ merits as much attention as those 



THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 339 

known by the name of the rose or tlie brilliant. If from u single 
luminons point, multiplied by facets, we obtain several colored lights, it 
is evident that from a number of luminous ]ioints more splendid effects 
will be produced. For this reason the light from a number of wax 
candles or from uncovered jets of gas is more favorable to the brilliancy 
of the diamond than that from lamps or gas inclosed in globes of ground 
glass. Therefore those who sell diamonds would do well to remember 
that if in exhibiting them they substitute for the one or two large lamps 
frequently employed, candelabra, containing a number of wax candles, 
the character of the gem will apparentl}' at once be changed, and it 
will resemble in brilliancy that grouping known as the parterre or haslcet 
of fJoicers. 

Whenever I have been invited to see an amateur collection, among 
which there was one princely diamond, (that is, above 10 carats weight,) 
I have often given the owner great and unexpected pleasure by lighting 
on a mantle-piece from eight to sixteen wax candles, thus calling forth, 
as it were, all the latent splendor of the gem. The reflection in the man- 
tle-mirror doubles the number of candles ; and if we turn our back to the 
mirror while holding the diamond in the hand, about the level of the 
eye, and vibrating it rai)idly, the most beautiful effects are produced. 
K this secret had been known to Prince Potemkin, who enjoyed like a 
sj'barite the company of his beautiful diamonds, he would have obtained 
a much higher pleasure from his favorite contemplation. In the splendid 
apartments of the Tuileries nothing is more easy to remark than the 
great difference between the brilliancj' of these gems in the rooms lighted 
by wax candles compared with that obtained in those where gas-jets 
are inclosed in ground-glass globes. Walking, dancing, every movement 
of the bodj', however slight it may be, varies very perceptibly' the ever 
changing play of the lights of this transcendently beautiful gem. 

It is remarkable that the price of diamonds has remained invariable for 
several centuries. A perfect diamond, weighing one carat, is worth about 
200 francs. Double this weight, and you quadruple the price, which is 
as the square of the weight, so that one weighing 10 carats would cost 
10x10x200, or 20,000 francs, which would be more than that of a first- 
class solitaire. Though it does not enter into our plan to speak of the 
arrangement of diamonds, and the best manner of setting them, which 
is properly the business of the jeweler, we will say that recently, admir- 
able effects have been i^roduced, at a great saving of cost, in substitut- 
ing for one very large stone a diamond of more moderate dimensions, 
surrounded by eight brilliants of one carat each. Suppose we have for 
the middle stone of the necklace a diamond of four carats, worth 3,200 
francs, surrounded by eight stones of one carat, worth 1,G00 francs. 
We get for 4,800 francs an effect equal to that of a 10-carat diamond, 
which would cost from 20,000 to 25,000 francs. 

The mines of India, at Golconda, Raolconde, Visapour, held for a 
long time the monopoly of the diamond nmrket of the world. Of late, 



340 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 

however, Brazil has added its productions, ^Yhich, having almost always 
a slight yellowish tint, contrast finely with the diamonds of India. It 
is from Brazil, at present, that nearly all the diamonds sold in Europe 
are obtained. These are first sent to Amsterdam to be cut, thence to 
Paris ami London to be set, an<l thence they find their way through 
commerce to every i>art of the world. Borneo also furnishes a few hun- 
dred carats of diamonds. Huml^oldt conjectured that, from their forma- 
tion, the Ural Mountains ought to produce diamonds, and research has 
iustified his prediction. It does not appear, however, that these depos- 
its have even yet been made productive in the way of regular mining. 
Algeria, also, has had the reputation of producing diamonds, and we 
have seen, in the possession of amateurs of mineralogy, specimens said 
to come from this locality ; but whether these came from a real or sup- 
posed deposit, they have had no place in commerce, and the same may 
be said of the Californian and Australian diamonds. In general, the 
proportion of diamonds in circulation augments with that of the popu- 
lation that can afford to purchase them, which causes their price to 
remain nearly the same at all times. A panic due to the discovery of 
some new diamond beds in Brazil, about the year 1845, caused a tem- 
porary fall in the price of this gem, but the equilibrium was soon 
restored, and now, at London as at Paris, a diamond of one carat is 
worth the old price of 200 francs, more or less. 

The number of stones which surpass in weight 100 carats is extremely 
limited. It is estimated that among 10,000 diamonds only one will 
be found weighing 10 carats, and consequently this will merit the 
name of princely. Bussia, France, Tuscany, and England possess dia 
mouds weighing over 100 carats. By far the chief among these, on 
account of its beauty, is the Regent, so called because it was to the 
Prince Regent that England owed its acquisition. All these large dia- 
monds come from India. The Star of the South, of which we have just 
spoken, and which was shown to the Academy of Sciences January 3, 
185G, came from Brazil, and was obtained from one of the new mines, 
the discovery of which caused the transitory depression of the diamond 
market. It was found in July, 1853, and weighed 254J carats. This 
gem appeared perfectly limpid, and without that tint which has been 
the reproach of Brazilian diamonds. T!ie cutting of it as a brillianf 
reduced it to half its original weight, which will make it about the same 
as that of the Kegent, which is 130i carats. To hnve cut it in the form 
which I call the Sancjf, would have left it three-fourths of its original 
weight, and have given it a much more splendid luster. When I 
wished to suggest this the diamond had already been sent to Amster- 
dam. It was exhibited at Paris in the great exposition of 1850. It is 
estimated to weigh 127 carats. It is one of the five diamonds to which 
the name of sovereigns has been exclusively applied. Everything indi- 
cates that the number of these peerless minerals is extremely restricted, 
since so few have rewarded the arduous labor of searching for them. 



THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 341 

If uo more should ever be found, it will be ou account of tiieir extreme 
scarceness, which recalls a saying of Tacitus with regard to the pearls 
of England: "It is rather nature that fails in their production than 
the avidity of man in their discovery." Hitherto Borneo has contributed 
no diamond of any considerable size. It is true, however, that the 
almost imi^enetrable forests of this equatorial isle have prevented a 
thorough research. A late number of the Journal of the Geographical - 
Society of London gives about 2,000 carats as the annual product of 
the mines of Borneo, which have never yet yielded a diamond of 36 
carats. The monopoly of the government of Holland in this matter is 
found to be quite profitless, and it is probable that, as in Brazil, a con- 
siderable portion of the production is abstracted by contraband trade. 

The rank of a diamond can only be approximately deternnned by its 
weight. If, for example, it is not of a beautiful water, perfectly pure, 
colorless, and limpid, it cannot receive the title of sovereign. Further- 
more, if its luster is not brilliant, it will have to be recut to render it per- 
fect, and in this operation it will lose weight. The Eegent and the Koh-i- 
noor are equal in beauty, but the Eegent of 130 carats is more valuable 
than its rival, which has been reduced in cutting from 1S(3-J^ carats to 
102^1 carats. The diamond of Tuscany is of an inferior color, a yellow- 
ish lemon. The great diamond of Eussia is rather ill-shaped ; it is like 
a i^igeon-egg cut in half, with facets over its whole contour. It is only a 
big stone, a species of heavy rose much too thick. If the Koh-i-noor and 
the Star of the South had been cut in the Sancy form, it is probable 
that with a brilliance equal to that of the Eegent they would have sur- 
passed it in weight. The Star of the South, when I saw it in the pos- 
session of M. Dufresnoj' at the Institu'te, w^eighed 254J carats ; but by 
injudicious cutting, I regret to say, it was reduced to 127 carats. 

Permit me further to remark in regard to the Saucy form that it 
always admits of a subsequent cutting into that of the brilliant, and is 
easily experimented upon. For this reason it is prudent not to sacrifice 
until the last extremity so much weight as must be lost in reducing a 
stone of the form of the Indian or Brazil diamond by the ordinary cut- 
ting. I have seen at Amsterdam a model of the form which the latter 
would take by ordinary cutting. It will be like the Koh-i-noor, that is 
to say, not sufficiently thick for the size of its face. 

In comparing the English diamond with the model of 100 carats given 
by Jeffries it will be found that its extent of face is almost double what 
it ought to be for a diamond properly cut. 

It would be a curious speculation to follow the future history of the 
Star of the South after having shone at the French exposition. What 
name will this sovereign diamond assume '? AVill it be Albert or Francis 
Joseph ? The proud Americans, sagacious estimaters of all commercial 
values, will they have the ambition to possess one of these rare produc- 
tions of nature'? "How have you managed to put so immense a price 



342 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 

Oil this pearl ?" asked Philip II of au eastern merchant. " Sire, I knew 
there was in the world a King- of Spain to buy it." 

Thus far we have said little for science in tbis dissertation, and yet 
precious stones, and, in general, all crystals, from their geometrical 
forms, their chemical and mechanical properties, their weight, their color, 
their action on light, and their electrical qualities, tbey all olfer the most 
delicate as well as interesting applications of the principles of pliysics. 
Hatty conceived a crystal to be made up of an assemblage of minute 
parts or molecules, each having the same definite form. From a few of 
these elementary molecules, which he called primary forms, he was ena- 
bled to build u}) all the forms which occur in nature, and in so doing he 
was led to inquire whether the same elementary forms might not give 
rise to more than one derivative form, or, in other words, whether the 
same substance could not crystallize in more than one form. Nature 
replied that she had anticipated his question by producing a specimen 
of the anticipated form. By the application of mathematical analysis 
to the fertile conception of Haiiy all the forms of crystals which can 
Ijossibly be produced by an aggregation of a given elementary form, as 
well as the forms which are incompatible with a i)articular elementary 
molecule, can be foretold, and these predictions are, in all cases, found to 
be in exact accord with the actual facts of observation 5 while the 
chemist and the mineralogist are continually adding to the list of crystals 
of theoretically possible forms, in no case has one been obtained of an 
a priori incompatible form. 

Hardness is an important quality by which valuable stones are 
distinguished. In the cutting of the Koh-i-noor it was found that it 
required a whole day to produce facets which could be commonly formed 
in the course of three hours. It was also found necessary to increase tlie 
rapidity of the rotation of the wheel on which the diamond powder is 
spread. In an experiment made some years ago at the expense of the 
Institute, a black diamond of Borneo was put in the hands of Gallais, 
tlie diamond-cutter. On this he wore out a steel wheel and a large 
quantity of ordinary diamond powder without making the least impres- 
sion on its surface. It lost none of its roughness, although loaded with 
a considerable weight, and heated almost to whiteness by the rubbing 
of the wheel, which revolved with such velocity as to emit a continual 
shower of sparks during the operation. 

This intractable substance required the i)ov;der of black diamonds, 
like itself, to produce the desired eU'ect, and doubtless some day the 
])owder of black diamonds will be used to advantage in cutting the ordi- 
nary diamond as well as in other processes of the arts. Every one has seen 
a glazier, with a minute point of a diamond, trace upon glass an almost 
imperceptible groove in the crust of the glass, which renders it easily 
frangible in a given direction. It is conjectured by some that the an- 
cients in engraving on sapphires and rubies have used a diamond point 
as a burin, and the finish of some parts of cameos and intaglios deeply 



THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 343 

cut would appear to warrant this supposition. An art has been lost to 
France. Who will restore it ? Since the last encouragements given to 
engraving on stone by the Empress Josephine and ISfapoleon I, every- 
thingof tills kind comes to us from Italy, and there is not a single glyptic 
monument of the reigns which have succeeded the Empire, 

The diamond is heavier than rock-crystal and lighter than white 
sapphire. It has almost the same weight as the white sapphire of Bra- 
zil, called goutte (Veau. It is often confounded with these three stones, 
which resemble it in whiteness. Let us see then how these ma}^ be dis- 
tinguished by the weight. 

It is known that if a real diamond be suspended by a fine thread from 
a delicate balance, and when in perfect equilibrium it be immersed in a 
glass of water placed immediately under it, it loses two-sevenths of its 
weight, or, in other words, two-sevenths of its weight in air must be 
added to the pan from which it is suspended to restore the equilibrium 
when the diamond is in the water. In like manner, a diamond weighing 
21 carats loses in water about C centigrams. A white sapphire of 
the same weight loses only a fourth of its weight when weighed in 
water, that is to say, about 5 centigrams. A piece of rock-crystal in 
the same conditions loses 8 centigrams. Hence, whenever any species 
of crystal weighed in water loses more than two-sevenths of its actual 
weight, it cannot be a diamond. We shall presently see how the dia- 
mond is distinguished from the white topaz, which, like itself, loses in 
water two-sevenths of its weight. 

Chemical tests being, in general, very difficult of application, and in- 
volving a loss of the substances examined, need not here be described ; 
but we shall point out an oi)tical test of a very delicate character which 
traces at once the line of demarkation between the diamond and all 
other colorless gems ; we refer to that of double refraction. 

In looking through a transparent stone at a detached object, such as 
the point of a needle, or a small hole jnerced in a card, the object is seen 
double, xas if there were two needle-points or two holes. This phe- 
nomenon is called double refraction, aud is exhibited by all white or 
colorless gems except the diamond. As some little dexterity is required 
to readily exhibit this curious property, the object to be looked at and 
the stone should be fixed at the proper distance apart on a support by 
a little modeling-wax, so as to be more conveniently seen by those inter- 
ested in the experiment. M. Haiiy was often called upon in consultations 
of this kind, and sometimes, in the case of a suspected fraudulent sale, 
he gave his testimony in court as an expert in regard to the character 
of gems. The white topaz of Brazil produces double refraction, and 
may at once be recognized by this quality as a false diamond. I have 
a painful recollection of a visit from an English gentleman, who brought 
for my examination a magnificent white topaz, which, had it been 
diamond, would have been of immense value. It was very easy for me, 
from the cutting of the stone, to perceive the double refraction ,• but 



d44 THE DIAMOND AND OTIIEE PRECIOUS STONES. 

such was the agitation of the owner, and so convulsively did his hand 
tremble, that I was obliged to attach the stone to a wooden ruler with 
a bit of green wax before I could render the phenomenon clear to him. 
The instant he saw the double refraction, the bearing of wliich I had 
explained, he seemed overcome with emotion ; and after remaining some 
minutes in a half-stupefied condition, he suddenly rose and abruptly 
took his leave, doubtless to hide his emotion, too powerful to be con- 
trolled. He afterward sent me his card, apologizing for his hasty 
departure, but 1 never learned what great interest I had compromised or 
what hopes I had dissipated in thus determining the character of the 
stone. In the work of Mawe, it may be seen that the white sapphire 
and the white diamond owe their high price to the fact that they ar ■ 
often fraudulently substituted for diamonds. Mawe might have added, 
also, the white zircon, which is heavier even than the sapphire, and 
which much more resembles the diamond. To exhibit one of these stouts 
in dress as a real diamond may be only a small exhibition of vanitj", 
but to sell one for a diamond is a felony which, fortunately, is recognized 
as such by our courts of justice. 

I need scarcely add that the zircon, like the white sapphire and topaz, 
possesses the quality of double refraction in a high degree. The test of 
double refraction is a very convenient one, because it can be exercised 
without unsetting the stone, and without any complicated apparatus. 
A little practice enables any one very soon to learn how to recognize the 
phenomenon ; and this is not much to pay for gaining so absolute a means 
of identifying a false diamond. 

Diamonds are capable of being colored in various ways. A slight 
tinge, as in the case of the great Tuscany and the Russian diamonds, 
detracts from the value ; but when a diamond is found of a lively and 
rich color, it is very much sought after as a very rare specimen. Tiie 
Marquis of Dree possesses several of this kind, and especially one of 
fine rose tint. The specimens which have this character are called stones 
of affection, and really their owners sometimes regard them with a sen- 
timent which fully justifies the name. Among the crown diamonds of 
France there was one of triangular shape, of a fine sapphire blue, and 
weighing GO carats. This disappeared at the time of the theft of these 
diamonds, none of which, except the Regent, were ever recovered, doubt- 
leas because this latter was of more difficult sale than the rest. During 
his imprisonment, the thief enjoyed among his companions great con- 
sideration on account of the magnitude of his villainy. On what may 
not distinction be based in this world ? 

But the wonder of all colored diamonds is the blue one, owned by Mr. 
Hope, the form of which has been engraved in the report of the London 
Exposition. Mawe characterizes it as superlatively beautiful. It weighs 
44^ carats, and often, according to Mr. Tennant, unites the blue color of 
the sapphire with the prismatic luster and brilliance of the diamond. 
Every one w'ho has studied the play and the effect of precious stones in 



THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 345 

any brilliant evening assembly has remarked tliat the sapphire, spark- 
ling as it may be by day, becomes dull and lusterless in the light of 
lamps, wax candles, or gas. It would be curious to kuow whether the 
same loss of brilliance happens to the blue diamond of Mr. Hope, which 
I do not hesitate to place beside the sovereigns in. value, because, though 
less heavy than they, it surpasses them in rarity. The term stone of 
affection is scarcely an inappropriate name for this precious object, 
though it is sometimes applied with more questionable propriety. I once 
saw a stoue at M. Bapst's, known as a Made diamond^ which had the 
color of a tobacco-leaf, and was only admirable on account of its singu- 
larity. Louis XVIII, however, selected it for the crown of France, at 
'Z4,000 francs, but it was never placed there. Such diamonds are always 
cut very thin; for what is the use of thickness in a stoue which is not 
transparent, and of which the superficial brilliance is quite vivid ? If 
to an amateur such a stone should become one of affection, he certainly 
would run no risk of having his taste di.sputed. It is curious to remark 
that Pliny says almost the same thing of Nonius, who, owning a 
beautiful opal, preferred to quit Rome as a proscribed traitor, rather 
than yield to Antony his stone of affection. " It was," says Pliny, "■ an 
astonishing instance of tyranny on the part of Antony to proscribe a 
citizen for the sake of a gem ; but we can none the less wonder at the 
obstinacy of Xonius, who, rather than give up his beloved opal, suffered 
himself to be exiled from his country. In reading the interminable list 
of marvelous qualities attributed before the seventeenth century to gems, 
we may understand something of the extreme value set by the possessors 
of precious stones on these treasures. The native Indian princes are great 
amateurs of diamonds, and seek for them vrith great assiduity. In one 
of their collections I have seen a small natural diamond, with brilliant 
points, encased in the red cement which ordinarily envelopes the stone 
in the mine. This specimen, which was about the size of a small hazel- 
nut, and in which the little diamond was enshrined within the cement, 
formed an object well adapted to excite the wonder and admiration of 
the mineralogist, as well as tUe superstitious regard of the princely, 
though unscientific, owner. 

Mawe states that of all values the least variable is that of the diamond. 
He cit€S various crises which have occurred in England in the quantity of 
diamonds received, and shows that, with regard to price, these crises have 
been generally very light and of short duration. There have been two 
great panics in the diamond market since 1840. The first was on the dis- 
covery of the new mines in Brazil, about 1843 or 1844. The second was 
in France, and followed the commercial shock caused by the revolution 
of 1848. The price of diamonds then rose and fell with other securities, 
and in preciselj- the same proportions. The price is now about 200 irancs 
the carat, a i)iice indicated by Jeflries reaching to about 250 francs. 
M. Oastelnau, in his Voyage across South America, hints that the fall 
in the price of diamonds came from a diminution in the taste of society 



346 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 

for these brilliant and other friv^olous decorations. If the depreciation 
in the value of diamonds is to depend on a decline in the taste lor luxury 
and ostentation, a desire to shine, and even on the cupidity of man, a 
rich commerce in these gems may be assured in London and Paris for 
many centuries to come. 

Without recurring to the Arabian Nights, or to the les:ends of the middle 
ages, where gnomes and grifQns arc seen jealously guarding- these treas- 
ures of the earth, and only by the force of some cabal allowing mortals 
to obtain them, it is evident that a great value assigned to a small 
quantity of mineral substance has given rise to singular changes in 
fortune. I do not know on what foundation Mawe says that Lieges, 
embassador to the court of Berlin, obtained from the King of Prussia a 
treaty of alliance, offensive and defensive, by dazzling his eyes with 
the splendor of the Regent, for the cession of which by Prance the abbe 
allowed the King to entertain a ho})e. Frequently the precious stones 
of sovereigns have been used as pledges for the payment of debts; but 
these transactions .are comparatively of little interest, and we prefer 
much more to contemplate the incident of a poor gardener of Golconda 
finding in his garden a beautiful stone, which i^roving to be a diamond, 
afforded, not only ease and comfort to himself and his family, but 
opened to his whole country a source of riches. We also prefer to dwell 
on the ft)rtuue of a poor negress who found the Star of the South, in July, 
1853, while washing the sands of the Brazilian mine of Bagagen. Ac- 
cording to the ancients, Hercules presided over the discovery of treas- 
ures. By this perhaps they wished to indicate that what is truly valu- 
able can only be attained by untiring industry. But be this as it may, 
the discovery of a gem was never considered by them as a favor from 
Hercules, but as the reward of labor. 

An anecdote of notable fidelity is connected with the iSancy, which is 
worthy of repetition. This gem was bought at Constantinople during 
an embassy, by a baron of the name of Sancy, for 000,000 livres. During 
the many years in which Henry IV, after the death of his predecessor, 
was rather an appendage to the throne than King in reality, several 
of his barons rendered him pecuniary assistance, and, among others, 
the Baron of Sancy, who placed the diamond bearing his name in charge 
of a domestic, to be delivered to the King. In the brigandism which- 
then desolated France, this servant was attacked and assassinated. 
For a long time his master knew not what had become of him; but 
after much searching it was discovered that he had been killed in a 
certain rural commune, and that his body was interred in the cemetery 
belonging to the locality. When condolences on this discovery were ten- 
dered to the baron on the loss of his splendid jewel, he replied, "You 
are very much in error, gentlemen ; since I now know where to find 
the body of my servant, I know, also, where to find my diamond." In 
fact, when the body was disinterred the diamond w^as found ; it had been 
swallowed by the man to secure it from his assailants. 



THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 347 

I may in this connection also recite an incident coming within my 
personal knowledge. I had intrusted a diamond of considerable value 
to a young trader to be recut in Amsterdam. He there, however, met 
with reverses, and returned to Paris in a state of the greatest destitution. 
During the last days of liis homeward travel he was obliged to live upon 
the wild fruits of the earth, and to sleep in the open air. Although I 
found him on his return in an apartment with bare walls, and his couch 
a bed of straw, he had been faithful to his trust. He handed me my 
jewel, apparently unconscious of merit, merely claiming from me the 
price of the recutting. After this sad epoch, fortune smiled upon him, 
and in his prosperity I fancy that I see a providential recompense of 
such rectitude amid unusual temptation. 

The art of making diamonds has been almost as eagerly sought as that 
of producing gold. The problems are not, however, the same in prin- 
ciple, since to make a diamond is simply to crystallize carbon or charcoal; 
while in producing gold the alchymists attempted to change the very 
nature of bodies, and to make gold of all things. . Modern chemistry 
having burnt the diamond, and discovered that the product of its com- 
bustion is the same as that obtained by the burning of charcoal, we 
would suppose that some i)eculiar compound of charcoal might be found 
which, submitted to such process as would allow the carbon to separate 
very slowly in a condition of perfect stillness, would produce regular 
crystalline forms. 

It is thus that sugar, salt, and alum are deposited when the water 
which held them in solution is evaporated very slowly and in perfect 
stillness. Looking at it in this light, there is a curious substance which 
renders the experiment of diamond-making a hopeful matter. It is not 
generally known that in combining sul})hur and carbon a colorless liquid 
is produced reseuibling v>-ater, and containing really nothing but sulphur 
and carbon. If by some process the sulphur could be got rid of, either 
wholly or partially, we might expect to see the carbon deposited in the 
crystalline state. So far this hope has failed. Many other plans have 
also failed, so that at this day the crystallization of charcoal is by most 
persons a thing despaired of. Despretz, a member of the Institute, was 
however, of a different opinion. By means of the voltaic battery he has 
obtained on a thread of platina small crystalline depositions, which, by 
their form and hardness, seem to be really embryonic diamonds. These 
crystals, or rather, let us say, these particles of diamond dust, have been 
used in polishing hard stones, in the same manner as ordinary diamond 
powder. The scientific question is then resolved. But this ingenious 
aud sagacious academician did not stop here. He organized, as we 
may say, hundreds of preparations to tacilitate the precipitation and aid 
crystallization of charcoal under the influence of electricity, an agent 
which in tbe researches of men is the obedient servant of his will. These 
interesting facts lead us to indulge the hope that persevering and saga- 
cious labor will be rewarded by success in the crystallization of carbon, 



348 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 

and tlie manufacture of tlio diamond. Although this result might not 
be advantageous to commerce, it ;vould be so to science. Nowhere does 
nature show us the diamond in the locality where it has been formed ; it 
is now only obtained from ground which has changed its place, so that 
we get no light on the primitive conditions of its crystallization, a cir- 
cumstance which seems to conUrm the views of Despretz, which is, that 
in Brazil, side by side with the diamond, there occurs a curious substance 
as hard as the diamond, which is called by the Portuguese carbonado, and 
in trade at Paris carhonc. Speaking of the mines of Brazil, Tennant 
says of it : "There is found here a considerable quantity of a black sub 
stance of the same specific gravity as the diamond, laminated or rather 
composed of a succession of laminella generally broken into separate 
fragments. It is too imperfectly crystallized to be cut ; though it pos 
sesses in places the brilliance of the diamond, and can be reduced t(- 
powder for the polishing of other stones. Its name, carbonado, is due to 
its having an appearance resembling charcoal. May not this be the 
same substance as that artificially obtained by Despretz '? In the age 
of Louis XIV, it was thought that it was quite possible to increase the 
size of diamonds by placing them in certain solutions, just as a piece of 
salt may be increased in size by placing it in a solution of the same 
substance. Despretz has, doubtless, considered the property that a 
crystal possesses of attracting and regularly arranging around itself 
l)articles of matter analogous to its own. At present this is the whole 
scientific condition of the subject. Let us wait for future developments. 

Several years ago the premature announcement of the artificial pro- 
duction of diamonds agitated all Paris. Baron Thtnard, however, by 
an experimental examination reassured tlie many merchants and families 
who had been alarmed on account of the threatened depreciation of their 
fortunes, based on the value of this queen of gems. Since this time the 
number of diamonds has increased in France, and is every day increasing, 
even more rapidly than in England, and now represents an immense 
capital. According to the reniark of Achard, there is no article which 
being resold, suflers so little loss, so little depreciation, while at the same 
time it is always in demand. It may almost be considered a circulating 
medium for high values. Furthermore, in the actual state of physics 
and chemistry, nothing Avarrants the fear that the artificial will ever 
compete vrith the natural product. The case is analogous to the well- 
known j>roduction of the gold pieces made by M. Sage, from gold ex- 
tracted from the ashes of certain burned vegetable substances, a beautiful 
scientific result, but by no means lucrative, since every piece of twenty 
francs cost 125 francs in the making. 

In like manner, we may say that if the process were known, the arti- 
ficial geni would cost more than its worth. 

The other precious stones have been designated " colored gems.'' In 
fact, their principal merit is the beauty of color and play of light which 
distinguishes them, but to this we nuiy add hardness, which insures their 



THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 349 

preservation, aud wliicli is one of the most important qualities that a 
precious stone can possess. Pliny says that in gems we see all the 
majesty of nature united in a small space, and that in no other of her 
works does she present anything more admirable. According to him, 
the first one who wore a precious stone was the Titan Prometheus. 
Eeleased from his bonds and impressed by some ideal sentiment, he in- 
serted in a piece of his chain a fragment of the rock to which he had 
been fastened, and thus formed a ring,which he ever after w^ore in memory 
of his misfortunes. Is there not some allegorical sense in this story of 
the construction of the first ring? What leads us to this supposition is 
the mysterious personage himself who is made the wearer. This grand 
personage Prometheus, the benefactor of man, who gave him fire stolen 
from the gods, has always been venerated in antiquity for his opposition 
to the imperious domination of Jupiter. 

The ancients included also, under the name of gems, stones engraven 
either in relief or in intaglio, and in this form of art they have left us 
the most admirable productions that the imagination can conceive. 
Here, as in sculpture, the moderns have neither surpassed nor even 
attained to the perfection of the works of antiquity. Engraven stones, 
which were used as seals, are now the most precious and valuable of 
relics, while they afford us definite mineralogical ideas as to the various 
kinds of ornamental stones known from the earliest period of history. 

Stones of color do not probably, at the i)resent day, represent more 
than one-tenth of the total value of gems, while diamonds may be esti- 
mated as ninety per cent. This was different among the ancients. With 
them the diamond was hardly known as an ornamental jewel, because 
it was uncut, and did not exhibit those vivid colors which now place it 
in the highest rank among precious stones. Furthermore, our system 
of lighting with lamps, gas, or candles, throws uijon all objects tints 
very unfavorable to the natural color of gems. Thus the garnet, tur- 
quoise, amethyst, and even the opal, lose much of their luster in these 
artificial lights. When a colored stone is placed in the path of the solar 
spectrum, its color will vary with the portion of the spectrum which 
falls upon it ; and two stones of the same color, but of a different na- 
ture, will exhibit different effects. Thus a paste, placed beside a fine 
colored stone, betrays its worthlessness. A simpler method of testing 
stones is to look at them through a bit of glass colored red, yellow, blue, 
or green. Every stone will exhibit under this test properties peculiar 
to itself, and by which its nature may be recognized. 

Since we have spoken of paste, I would remark that in spite of the 
high price of fine stones, there are fewer false ones used than at first 
we should be inclined to 'believe. Paste, colored or not, is only a very 
fine glass overcharged with lead and enamel, analogous to the best 
quality of cut-glass for table service. In the early times of its substi- 
tution for precious stones, it was cut very carefully ; now it has beconae 
common and cheap and inferior in workmanship. Besides, national 



350 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 

riches angmeutiug from day to day, and the insufficieucy of paste for 
beauty aud duration becoming more and more apparent, a greater ex- 
pense for something of imperishable vahie is preferred to a less price 
paid for what is really an article of no permanent \yorth. We are now 
long past the time when the Duchess of Berri, arriving in France, re- 
ceived for her bridal ornaments onl}^ iiaste, and when, in order to make 
the Duke of Wellington a present in diamonds of less than a million 
francs in value, the Paris trade was obliged to borrow from the civil 
list a certain number, guaranteeing their restitution in kind. 

Before speaking further of colored stones, a question presents itself: 
Can science explain the coloring of these gems 1 There are, I suppose, 
few persons who do not know that the white light which reaches us 
from the sun and other heavenly bodies can be decomposed into a num- 
ber of colored rays. Thus, when the light of the sun passes through a 
triangular prism, it is bent, and v.ill trace on a white card placed oppo- 
site to it an iridescent band, in which jSTewton has marked seven colors, 
according to some idea of analogy with the seven notes of a musical oc- 
tave ; an idea which is, after all, without foundation, since every prism 
gives its own peculiar band. The idea was by no means new. The 
Greeks and Eomans entertained it, and Nero, who in dying pitied the 
world for losing so great an artist as himself, has sung it in verse. A 
child, blowing a soap-bubble produces colors as splendid. In a word, 
every thin plate of any transparent substance whatever becomes colored 
under white light. Striated surfaces also offer effects not less brilliant ; 
so that, to clothe certain insects more vividly, nature has grooved the 
tissue that envelopes them. The globules of clouds between us and the 
moon produce also, with white light, the most vivid colors; and, above 
all in beauty, the iris or rainbow, which the sun paints in a thousand 
colors in the drops of the falling shower, is the transcendent effect of de- 
composed light. Nature always, with a palette, so to speak, charged only 
with white, knows the art of spreading over all her pictures the magic 
and glow of the most brilliant coloring. But we have not exhausted 
all the resources of this coloring, the secret of which is the light itself. 
How shall we explain the whiteness of the snow, which covers our planet 
at either pole, and on the summits of the loftiest mountains ? How ac- 
count lor the perpetual greenness of countries covered with plants and 
trees, the blue of the vast aerial sea which envelopes the earth, or the 
color of the great ocean which rests on its surface"? Here science is in 
default. The cause of the color proper to bodies is only half perceived ; 
and we can say still that which Huyghens said at the end of the seven- 
teenth century, " In spite of the labors of Newton, no one has yet fnlly dis- 
covered the cause of the color of bodies." We mijst then admire, with- 
out penetrating their secret, the unparalleled red of the oriental ruby, 
the pure yellow of the topaz, the unmingled greenness of the emerald, 
the soft blue of the sapphire, and the rich violet of the amethyst. This 
is not the only thing the discovery of which we shall leave to posterity. 



THE DIAMOND AND OTPIER PRECIOUS STONES. 351 

In the enuiueratiou that follows we shall place the precious stones in 
the order of their actual value. This order varies little in difierent parts 
of the w^orld. When an extraordinary demand, however, occurs, that 
causes a rise in pric^e of any particular gem, there flows into the 
market such an overplus of that gem, that a fall in value is at once 
eftected. This is the case at present with the beautiful Hungarian opal, 
which in the last ten years has become abundant, the mines producing 
it being more actively worked on account of the high price of these 
stones, w'hich for a while has surpassed that of the sapphire. The ori- 
ental ruhy is, for its price as well as its beauty, the first in rank among 
colored stones. In order to appreciate its color in its finest quality we 
must compare it with the blood as it spirts from an arterj', or the red 
ray in the solar spectrum. It is the pure red on the painter's palette, 
without any admixture on the one side of orange, or on the other of violet. 
Many of the stained-glass windows in our ancient churches, when trav- 
ersed by the rays of light, give this color in its brilliance. The ruby is 
excessively hard, and, after the sapphire, which surpasses it a little in 
this respect, is the first of stones, always excepting the diamond, to 
which there is nothing at all comparable. According to a perfectly just 
remark of M. Charles Achard, more competent than any one in France 
to give an opinion touching the trade in colored stones, there is a great 
difference between these and the diamoud, which, from the minutest 
specimens to those of princely or sovereign size, have a fixed price pro- 
portioned to their weight, as is the case with gold aud silver. As for 
rubies and other geius, the very small specimens have hardly any value, 
and it is only when of some weight that they command high prices. 
Rubies are, therefore, much used for watch-pivots, and, from their 
abundance, are of little value ; but for a ruby of o carats, double the price 
of a diamond of the same v/eight will be i)aid. If the ruby weighs 10 
carats, triple the value of a diamond of the same weight may be asked 
for it; which price would be about 20,000 to 25,000 francs. All the 
w'orld admits that a perfect ruby is the rai-est of all the productions of 
nature. Its tint shows to the same advantage by day as by lamp light ; 
but to render the color more resplendent it should be placed in the midst 
of the red rays of the si)ectrum in such a manner that the rest of the 
colors do not fall very near it. The possessors of choice collections of 
stones can repeat this interesting experiment with various stones, placing 
each in that color of the si^ectrum which is analogous to that of the 
stone itself. It is a severe test for the purity of the tint ; for if ])ure and 
unmixed, the stone will api^ear completely black in every other light but 
its own. Milky and turbid stones cannot bear this test. 

When Pegu was annexed to the British East India Possessions, it was 
thought that that country, so rich in rubies, would send many of these 
stones, so jealously guarded by the Indian princes, into the European 
market. Such has not been the case. It is not yet proven, however, 
that the ruby mines are still worked ; and this part of Asia is the least 



352 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 

known of all the countries of the globe. Merchants in rul)ies will never 
cease expatiation on the number of tigers, lions, elejihants, and venom- 
ous serpents which people the forests ancV the plains of this country, 
which, according to them, is only accessible by the openings of the 
rivers from the sea. The actual state of the island of Borneo, as authen- 
tically given, seems very much to confirm these rather interested ac- 
counts. 1 do not know that the rajahs attach a superstitious importance 
to the i^ossessiou of rubies, but it is certain that they never sell any of 
considerable weight. With the Koh-i-noor, Iluujeet Singh possessed a 
no less precious ruby, Avhich was of the shape of the large end of an egg 
that had been cut in two. This enormous gem made a part of the neck- 
lace of this prince, and was estimated b}' him, without any fear of finding 
a purchaser, at 12,500,000 iiounds sterling — about as much as 300,000,000 
franc*. We know nothing of the quality or weight of this ruby, which 
has not yet been brought to England. The ruby is, with the sapphire, 
the zircon, and the garnet, one of the heaviest of stones. In wat«r it 
loses only about the fourth of its weight. 

The Indian princes set their beautiful rubies in the collet of a ring, 
somewhat elevated, and surround them by several rows of small dia- 
monds, so that the whole produces a kind of disproportionate elevation, 
contrary to our ideas of good taste, which admits but a single stone in 
a simple French setting, the stone not too prominent — for example, in 
diamonds, a solitaire of three or four carats. 

The composition of rubies is no less extraordinary than that of the 
diamond. Like the sapphire, the ruby is nothing more than a bit of 
crystallized earth, colored by iron, which naturalists call the painter of 
nature. It is not too much to repeat the strange assertion, that nature has 
made the most precious stones with the most common materials, w^e vvill 
say that this kind of earth, called aluminium or clay, and the white pebble 
or rock-crystal, called silica, or flint, form the base of nearly all gems. Opal 
is rock-crystal with water. Topaz joins a little fluoric acid to silex and 
aluminium. The emerald, the crysolite, the aqua-marine, the tournmlinc, 
and the eulase contain another element besides silex and aluminium, viz : 
glucine. Finally, garnet is so ferruginous that it acts on the magnetic 
needle. The zircon, a stone very little esteemed in France, has for base 
a peculiar kind of earth called zircone. 

As accessory to the ruby, Ave may mention a stone less deeply red in 
color, called the spindle ruby. The crystalline form of this difiers from 
that of the oriental ruby, which is a six-sided cylinder, cut squarely at 
both ends; while the spinelle is, like the diamond, a double pyramid. 
The name of halass ruby has been given to a stone of Magal, which 
several authors regard as a real oriental rub}', only having a less rich 
color. The ancients did not apply the name ruby to this stone. It is 
called by Pliny carbuncule, (incandescent coal,) and by Ovid and the 
jioeti^ jjyrope, or that which has the color of fire — 

Flammas imitanie pyropa. 



THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 353 

With US the word carbuncle is little used except to describe a ruby of 
cousidcrable size. Pliny has evidently confounded the Indian ruby with 
the garnet, which is found everywhere. Certain rubies cut spherically — 
a form which is called calotte spheriqiie, tallow drop, or cabochon — pre- 
sent in the middle of their red tint a white six-rayed star, which changes 
with the i)osition of the eye and forms in the sunlight a beautiful spec- 
tacle. This effect is called asterie. It is found also in the sapphire, a 
near relation of the ruby; like it, being composed of aluminium, and 
colored by iron, differing only in its color, Vvhich is blue, while that of 
the ruby is the most vivid and purest red. 

Xext in rank to the ruby we place the emerald^ of which Pliny says 
no gem has a color so agreeable. This stone, which comes to us from 
Peru and New Grenada, is very soft, hardly scratching rock-crystal. It 
is found in beautiful green crystals, implanted and produced in a kind 
of freestone of a whitish color; and we can comprehend no cause other 
than electricity for such a deposit as that of the emerald in the midst 
of a stone differing both in nature and in color from this gem. Nero, 
who was near-sighted, used an emerald, hollowed on both sides, 
through which to look at the games in the amphitheaters. This was 
doubtless the first approach to spectacles, since this invention does not 
date very far back. 

The emerald, like the ruby, is a six-sided prism and squarely cut at 
the ends. This stone is very light, losing in water more than one-third 
of its weight. Its tint is so lovely that we overlook its want of hard- 
ness, which might properly almost exclude it from the rank of distin- 
guished gems. At the time of the conquest of Peru a magnificent 
emerald was sent in homage to the Pope ; and several years afterward 
the emerald mines there were said to be exhausted or lost. About 
twenty years ago the principal of a large establishment in Paris, M. 
Mention, received from South America some magnificent specimens, 
which quite revived the emerald trade, continued since without inter- 
ruption by Charles Achard. The deeper the hue of the emerald the 
more it is esteemed. It is the largest end of the crystal that is the most 
strongly colored. The emerald loses none of its brilliance in artificial 
light ; a valuable property in our modern society, where all great re- 
unions are held at night. Haiiy includes in the emerald family the 
aquamarine and the ber^d, one of a greenish blue, the other yellow, 
but both being like the emerald in form and chemical compo.'?ition. 

The emerald, as well as all stones whose color we wish to develop, 
should be cat with a flat upper surface, surrounded by retreating facets, 
continued all the way underneath. The orientals cut them in broad 
thin plates, which, apparently, ought to show the colors of the stone to 
the best advantage ; but the reflection of white light from the large 
upper surface becoming mingled with that which traverses the gem, 
renders the hues of the latter less discernible. This is the reason why 
they are not cut with a table and surrounded by facets; for thiTO in 
23 s 



354 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 

avoiding- a large rellectiiig upper surface, the stoue is made to exTiibit 
its fundameutal color throughout its whole extent. The emerald, though 
much cheaper than the beautiful ruby, is nevertheless much admired 
and sough*: for. We might almost call it a " stone of general alfection," 
so nuich is it esteemed by the many. 

The scf])phire, which comes after the emerald, is the hardest of colored 
stones. It may be considered as a blue ruby, or the ruby as a red 
sapphire. With naiiy and Mawe, we can say that aluminium is suscepti- 
ble of crystallizing in almost all colors. The mineralogical species to 
which the sapphire belongs is called the corindon. After the red corin- 
don, or oriental riihy, comes the blue corindon., or oriental sapphire. Some- 
times the corindon is of a beautiful yellovr color ; then it is called oriental 
topas. More rarely it is of a violet hue; then it takes the name of orien- 
tal amethyst. Finally, it may be perfectly colorless, like rock-crystal, 
when it greatly resembles the diamond, with which it is sometimes con- 
founded, but by its greater weight and its double refraction it may be 
easily distinguished. 

By the microscope there may be discovered, in certain pale sapphires, 
traces in the direction of the faces of sis-sided prisms. The light re- 
flected by these internal filaments produces three small briUiant traces 
transversely to the filaments and to the faces of the prism. The cross- 
ing of these little bright lines forms within the stone a six-pointed star, 
which gives to the stone the name of starry sapphire. Among the ori- 
entals these stones are highly esteemed, especially when they exhibit 
the star in a ground of deep blue. Corindons of all colors are suscepti- 
ble of being thus marked. In his voyages in Africa, M. Abbadie wore 
a blue starry sapphire, which often commanded the respect of the 
natives. There are stars on a red, blue, or yellow ground, accordin g to 
the color of the corindon. As yet, this phenomenon has never been 
seen in the white sapphire. I have just said that this reflection arises 
from little filaments within the stone. These may result either from 
some foreign substance or from minute hollows left by the regular dis- 
position of the particles at the moment of crystallization. If, instead of 
trying to observe these starry appearances by reflectiou, the stone is cut 
so that it can be looked through, then the phenomenon can be easily 
seen. Unless the stone is of a very perfect crystallization, the observer 
who takes for the point of sight a lighted candle, placed at a moderate dis- 
tance, will perceive these little luminous lines of light crossing all the 
series of filaments which the mineral contains. According as the stone 
has a four or six sided form, we have a four or six rayed star, and if the 
filaments are all in one direction we have a luminous band. 

In scratching with the point of a diamond a plate of glass in various 
directions, we produce bands of light of the same number as the traces 
ui^on the surface, which are always in a transverse direction to these 
traces. We can even very simj^ly produce a star in spreading with the 
finger a little wax or grease upon a plate of thin glass. It is necessary 



THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 355 

for this that tlie coating sliould bo very tliiii so as merely to dull tlic 
glass, and that the finger sliould be moved directly across — for cxnniple, 
from right to left, or from above downward ; then looldng through it at 
a lighted candle, there will be seen a band of white light crossing the 
direction of the lines of tarnishing. If the same operation is performed 
in two directions on opposite sides of the glass, then a ibur-limbed cross 
will be formed by the two luminous bands which cross each other be- 
fore the eye. 

Ceylon produces a greenish stone traversed by filaments of white 
amianthus, which is called the cafs-ct/e, and which is usually cut spheri- 
cally and quite prominent. We see in it a floating band, which comes 
from the play of light on the lines of amianthus within it. In general 
with these curious accidents of light exhibited by exceptional stones, 
the color of the starry radiance should contrast as much as possible 
with the tone of the stone itself. In simply scratching crossed lines on 
a beautiful carnelian, I have succeeded in producing a white cross on a 
red ground. In minerals this starry quality is very valuable, because 
it reveals the primitive form of the substance in which it is found, and 
I repeat that, by looking through a stone suitabl}^ cut, we find these 
luminous transverse bands in a great variety of crystallized minerals. 

There is a very hard dust employed in the arts, called emery, a pow- 
der used in rubbing or grinding down bodies with hard surfaces. This 
substance is a species of corindon or sapphire, containing a tolerably 
large proportion of iron, which has been substituted for the aluminium 
at the time of the formation of the stone. This substitution is quite 
common in chemistry and mineralogy. It is believed that the Chinese 
succeed, by patience, in cutting diamonds with emery. This must be 
very slow work, because the stone of w^hich emery is composed is ^'cry 
much softer than the diamond ; it is like sharpening steel by rubbing it 
on paper or linen. However, if patience can work miracles, it is doubt- 
less reserved for the Chinese to accomplish this result. 

We shall place after the sapphire, the oped, which comes from Hun- 
gary and Mexico. The Hungarian opals are much the superior, and 
have not the disadvantage of deteriorating with time. Some years ago 
the opal was higher in price than the sapphire ; but increase in value 
inducing a more active working of the mines, the price of opals, beauti- 
ful as they are, fell to what we find it at present. For the perfection of 
an opal, it should exhibit all the colors of the solar spe(itrum, disposed 
in small spaces, neither too large nor too small, and with no color pre- 
dominating. The opal is sometimes called the harlequin, in allusion to 
the great variety of colors which it displays. The substance of the opal 
is of a milky hue and of a pale greenish thit. This milkincss is gener- 
ally known by the term opalescence. It is the color of water in which 
a little soap has been dissolved. In order to explain the brilliant colors 
of the opal, we may imagine hv the stone a great number of isolated fis- 
sures, of variable width, but always very narrow. Each fissure, accord 



356 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 

ing to its width, gives a peculiar tint similar to the eifect produced by 
j)ressing two i)lates of glass together : we may recognize violet, blue, 
indigo, red, yellow, and green, the last two being exhibited more rarely 
than the others. 

As a proof that the brilliant colors of the opal are due, as we have 
said, to narrow fissures, similar colors may be produced by partially 
fracturing, with the blow of a hammer or a wooden mallet, a cube of glass 
or even a rock-crystal. Colors obtained in this way are known in optics 
by the name of colors of thin plates, and are of the same character as 
those of flowers, which result from the overlaying of the transparent 
tissues of which the petals are composed. Herein lies the secret of all 
their varied hues from their first opening until their final decay. 

Sometimes the opal is colored only in its substance, has not so great 
a play of light as when it is variously traversed by fissures, and then it 
is not so much esteemed. Again, it may have extended fissures exhibit- 
ing a somewhat changeable single color — red, blue, yellow, or green. 
The Empress Josephine once paid a very high price for a pair of these 
stones, it being then the fashion to wear two bracelets exactly alike, 
and it was quite diificult to get two stones perfectly- matched, since the 
interior disposition of the fissures of the opal, which gives its peculiar 
plaj of color, depends entirely upon accident. At present it is only the 
harlequin opals that are much valued, and those of Josephine would 
not now bring a tenth of their former cost. 

Except for ear-rings, the opal should be set singly, with or without a 
surrounding of small brilliants, whose vivid lusters and scintillations 
contrast favorably with the tints of the opal. 

The opal is not a very hard stone. In its chemical composition it is 
only hydrated quartz — that is, white pebble, combined with water. 
Heat, expanding its fissures, varies its colors, and pressure obviously 
produces the same effect. I have thus often changed, without perma- 
nent alteration, the colors of a beautiful Hungarian harlequin opal. 

Before the revolutionary tempest, in the closing years of the past cen- 
tury, the financier d'Auguy possessed a harlequin opal of great beauty. 
It was a perfect oval, 121 millimeters long, and from 15 to IG millimeters 
in breadth. Esteemed as entirelj^ perfect, the stone had a great celeb- 
rity. I do not know if d'Augny ran, like the senator iSTonius, any risk 
of proscription during the years of terror; but certainly if he did, it was 
not on account of his possession of this unparalleled opal, since the 
wretched tyrants of '93, who sold to foreigners the treasures of St. 
Denis, and of many other churches, for 80,000 francs, did not dream of 
opals exhibiting all the colors of the rainbow. 

The opal of d'Augny, the value of which I have nowhere seen esti- 
mated, passed some time ago into the hands of Count Waliski. The opal 
of Nonius, of the size of a hazel-nut, which he selected from among all 
his treasures as the companion of his exile, was estimated at 20,000,000 
sesterces, which, according to the exact table of M. Dureau de la Malle, 



TFIE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 35? 

in liis book on the Political Economy of the Romans, is about 4,000,000 
francs. Now, if we recollect that before diamond-cutting was under- 
stood, the opal was the only stone which, receiving the white light of 
day, gave it back refracted in a thousand magic tints, this price does 
not appear too much for a gem which was the Koh-i-noor or the Regent 
of Rome. The opal, at the same time that it is the lightest of all gems, 
losiug in water one-half its weight, is also one of the softest. Those of 
India are somewhat superior in these respects. 

In actual value the Paris market places, next after the opal, two 
stones of an undecided greenish yellow, viz, the chrysolite and the peridot. 
The first is characterized by its lively luster, its polish, analogous to 
that of the sapphire, and its warm bright tint. It is the " stone of affec- 
tion" of Sir David Brewster, so celebrated for his researches in optics. 
The chrysolite^ or Cymophane, has often the milkiness of the sapphire. To 
enumerate its other properties we must enter the broad field of modern 
optics, speak of double refractiou, of polarization, and the colors wliicli 
are exhibited in the light which traverses crystals, and finally of the 
three kinds of colored rings, namely, those with black lines, those with 
black crosses, and those without either lines or crosses. The rings in 
the chrysolite, as in the topaz, are of the first kind. This is not, however, 
a distinguishing j)roperty, since it can be made to appear, with a little 
dexterity, in almost all cut stones. As to the peridot^ or olivine, its color 
is deeper than that of the chrysolite ; it is always of a greenish olive, 
mingled with yellow, the green predominating; is very soft, scarcely 
scratches glass. Its lack of hardness gives an appearance of dullness 
to its edges. The peridot, which comes to us from India, is there used 
as ornaments of harness, as well as are the flatl}' cut emeralds of the 
same country. Ceylon, which is above all other places distinguished 
for the production of colored stones, does not continue to furnish the 
peridot, which, however, is not rare in the lava from volcanos, although 
the specimens are too minute to be worthy of the art of the lapidary. 

I have often seen in the possession of an amateur interesting collections 
of these small crystals, which, viewed by lamplight and under a micro- 
scope, verified ail the crystallographic laws of Haiiy. A crystal of a 
peculiar i^roperty, though of the minutest dimensions, was to this eccen- 
tric amateur what the Star of the South would be to an ordinary" collector 
of diamonds. His long and minute investigations gave him great facil- 
ity in the study of minute gems. From a stone covered with small crys- 
tals he would select one which, under the microscope, and properly 
lighted, would present the most interesting scientific indications. 

The j)enV/o# has the distinguished honor to be the only precious stone 
that has thus far been found in aerolites falling from the sky, although 
these little olive stones are of no great value if sold by the carat; but if 
suitably cat in their matrix, they afford, if not very beautiful, certainly 
very curious, specimens. I need scarcely say that the existence of a 
crystallized stone found in bodies falling from the atmosi>liere refutes the 



358 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 

idea that these meteorites are formed suddenly by the condensation of 
exhalations from the earth. The regular disposition of the particles of 
a substance in the form of a crystal requires immense time as ^Yell as per- 
fect freedom of motion. 

From the peridot we pass to the garnet^ which is a ferruginous stone 
of a deep-red color, and often Avantiug in transparence. It is, however, 
sometimes found of the beautiful color called peach-bloom. To the per- 
fection of colors it is necessary that a specimen should join a regularity 
of tint, wanting which constitutes a defect easily perceived by an eye 
Ijroperly trained. There is sometimes found with cut garnets a very 
pretty assemblage of stones in juxtaposition, which gives a very agree- 
able appearance of black mingled witli red. The only garnet I have ever 
seen of any value is the hyacinthe, a stone of a luscious orangy yellow 
color, having a little the appearance of candy made of brown sugar. 
This stone, which Haliy wrongly separates from garnets, is not much 
esteemed except by amateurs or collectors of curious specimens. The 
Hollanders formerly- cut garnets into a pearl shai)e, Avhich were strung 
in necklaces and used as money among the slave-traders. As in sap- 
phires, asters may be observed in garnets, and I have been able to 
verify, by the cutting, all that this phenomenon indicated of the struct- 
ure of the stone. 

In the garnet can be developed crosses with six and also with four 
limbs, besides straight and oblique crosses, without counting certain 
circles of light resulting from a cutting perpendicular to the a si e rial ilia- 
ments. 

Both for mineralogy and also for optics the study of gems affords 
many important facts. It is to the study of mincralogical optics that 
Mains, Arago, Fresnel, and Biot, in France ; Huygheus, in llolland ; 
Wollaston and Sir David Brewster, in England; and Seebeck and 
Haidenger, in Germany, owe so much of their renown, aj)d to which the 
science of light is indebted for its most beautiful discoveries. 

Pliny gives no Latin name to the garnet, but confounded it with all 
stones of a red color, under the head carlunculi. It is the heaviest of 
gems, and like the diamond does not possess double refraction. From 
the vrhite garnet of Norway very excellent microscopic lenses have been 
made, although it is ordinarily from the diamond that small and exceed- 
ingly powerful lenses of this kind are formed. The cutting of such lenses 
is very difhcult, and the price commensurate with the labor and skill re- 
quired in the operation. I may here observe that another mineralogi- 
cal crystal having single refraction, the ampliigene^ strongly refractive 
and i)erfectly colorless, may also perhaps be used to form small, powerful 
lenses. 

The topaz, whose name is derived from its yellow color, is a mineral 
which also crystallizes in prisms, and is susceptible of being very nearly 
broken transversely. They are of all colors, and coine principally from 
Brazil and Saxony, though Siberia also furnishes them. The price of 



THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 359 

the yellow variety, wliicli, strictly speakiug, onlj' ouglit to bear the name 
oitojxxz, lias wonderfully declined during the last quarter of a century. 
The Brazilian topaz cannot be confounded with the oriental, which is a 
beautiful coriudon of a j'ellow color, deepening almost to orange. 

Although the topaz is not considered a very brittle mineral, it is said 
that the Emperor Maximinius, who broke the teeth of his horse with a 
blow of his fist, and the leg of a beast by one of his royal kicks, was so 
strong in the hands that he could crush topazes as we crush a lump of 
sugar. The topaz hris been for a long time a great favorite, esi)ecially 
with the Spaniards, but with the caprice of fashion it has of late years 
greatly declined in the estimation of the x)ublic. 

It was on the white topaz of Brazil that Fresnel made the important 
discoveries of double refractiou with two axes. It is, also, the topaz 
which bears the name of water-drop, which is made so often to pass for 
the diamond. In mineralogy this stone serves as one of the types of 
comparative hardness. Thus, we say a stone scratches glass, scratches 
rock-crystal, scratches topaz and sapphire, according to the various 
degrees of hardness. For example, the Brazilian topaz cannot scratch 
sapphire, which is one test of a diamond. The black diamond of Borneo 
scratches every stone, even diamond itself. As to the peridot and oj;o/, 
they scratcli nothijig, not even ordinary bottle-glass, which I use in ex- 
l>eriments of this kind ; as to window-glass it has become too soft of late 
to be used as a test, since for economy it is now made with too large a 
proportion of alkali. 

The blue topaz of Brazil has never as deep a tint as that of the 
sapphire; it is only an aqua-marine of superior quality. Of all topazes, 
the only one highly esteemed is that artificially colored, of a pale rose 
hue, by means of fire. For the specimens that we wish to experiment 
with we must choose those of a deep yellow or rich orange color. After- 
ward they are placed in ashes or sand and submitted to a red, or even 
a white heat, more or less i>rolonged. When they are taken out we 
find the tint changed to the light red of w^hat is called ruhy halais or 
ruby brulee, (burnt ruby.) The gay color of this ruby is very pleasing 
to the eye. A dilettante once remarked to me, "This stone has an 
amiable character." I w^as entirely of his opinion as to the moral of 
this gem, although there is certainly nothing very sincere in the means by 
which it acquires its beautiful tint. If, like the olivine, the topaz had 
been enveloped in volcanic fires, it would naturally have become a ruhy 
halais, and no cloud would have rested on the truthfulness of its 
character. 

The mineral species which the topaz forms is characterized bj- a cer- 
tain quantity of fluoric acid, which it contains exclusively of all other 
gems. This stone, moderately heated, becomes electric and will attract 
light movable bodies. A delicate linen thread, suspended vertically from 
one end, is attracted by the warmed topaz as it would be by a stick of 
sealing-wax after being rubbed on cloth. The topaz shares this curious 



360 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 

character only with the tourmaline. This latter stone, of \Yhich we shall 
say ver^ .ittle as a gem, is highly prized in optics on acconnt of its polar- 
izing qualities, which are utilized in a great variety of apparatus. It is 
without any brilliant luster ; and though proposed as a stone for mourn- 
ing ornaments, to compete with jet, jewelers have not yet made up 
their minds to employ it for this purpose. For a really rich mouruing- 
decoration, black diamonds are the gems to be used, as thej^ have been 
in Portugal in decorating the crown-royal. The earliest specimens of 
tourmalines came from Ceylon through Holland, The red tourmaline 
of Siberia, called also siberite, is pretty enough for a ring ; it occurs 
in minute crystals. The amateur of whom I have spoken had in his 
collection very small siheritcs, from Corsica, of a crystalline form and 
exquisite in color; they vrould have served as gems for the decoration 
of the Liliputians. There are beautiful green and blue tourmalines, 
which come from South America, and are called Brazilian emeralds and 
sapphires. The aqua-marine, the name of which indicates its sea-green 
hue, is a stone of a mineralogical character similar to that of the eme- 
rald, but little in demand at the present time. It is possible that there 
may be an augmentation in its price, since no new ones are received in 
market. This stone loses nothing of its appearance in artificial light, 
and it is sometimes curious to see a magnificent decoration of sapphires 
wanting in effect at night, while a cheaper one of aqua-marine is not 
only preserving its splendor, but seeming to gain in brilliance by can- 
dle-light. The English regard aqua-marine with the partiality the Span- 
ish had for the topaz. 

This stone takes a beautiful polish, and preserves it for a long time. 
It is less hard than the topaz, and possesses many optical qualities, on 
which our limits will not permit us to touch. 

We come next to the amcthysfj the name of which signifies a specific 
against dninlcenness. It is a true rock-crystal of a beautiful violet color ; 
it is essentially a daylight-stone. Nothing is wanting to this lovely 
gem but rarity. Pliny employs the word amethystize as synonymous 
with violet ize. Modern savans, with their lynx eyes, find a difference 
between violet rock-crystal and pure amethyst. The latter is charac- 
terized by a series of little undulated strata, which is wanting in the 
violet rock-crystal. There are specimens of colorless quartz which 
have a structure similar to that of the amethyst. When certain agates 
consist of very thin layers of a uniform thickness, they take the colors 
of the spectrum, and are called iridescent agates. It is probable that 
the myrrhine vases, whose value reaches some hundreds of thousands of 
francs, were cut from iridescent agates. Sir David Brewster has given 
the exact theorj^ of this iridescence, ignorant that I had already done 
so before him in the reports of the Institute. 

The same philosopher has also demonstrated that the color of sea- 
shells is also duo to their surface being striated by undulating and 
closely approximated minute lines ; for, if we take the impressions of 



THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 361 

one of these shells in finely prepared wax, we get the colors as well as 
the form of the specimen. Myrrhine vases were sold at 70, 100, and 300 
talents. The talent was about 540 francs. We may find among miner- 
als mauj" stones which, being- cut, will make excellent gems. There is 
the euclase, a weak emerald in color, but not so hard as a real emerald. 
The ampMgene is as pretty as the white sapphire. The i^rehnite is a. 
tolerably good celadon. It is somewhat remarkable that researches in 
mineralogy have led to nothing new in the way of precious stones. This 
illustrates a remark of Humboldt that mineral nature is the same from 
one end of the world to the other, which cannot be said of either the 
vegetable or the animal kingdom. 

There is no hope, then, of our finding anything beyond diamonds, ru- 
bies, sapphires, topazes, emeralds, and amethysts. The only resource 
is the laboratory. To obtain new gems man must not count upon nature 
but upon his genius. 

In terminating the list of precious stones let us say a word about the 
white pebble or rock-crystal. This is nothing but flinty sand, crystallized 
and variously colored. Almost all false gems, so called, are made from 
rock-crystal or quartz. Thus rock-crystals, cut like the diamond, as 
Ehine diamonds and Alencou diamonds, are called false diamonds. It is 
only violet quartz which makes the true amethyst. Recentlj' an attempt 
has been made, with considerable success, to imitate the yellow topaz 
with rock-crystal of the same color. There is develoi)ed in the stone a 
very rich, velvety, orange color. As to all the reflections, the tints, the 
degrees of transparence, or of opalescence — in fine, of all the forms which 
quartz, a veritable proteus, can assume, a volume would hardly suffice 
to detail them. Formerly rock-crystal was used for chandeliers and 
many other articles for which glass is now substituted. The ancients 
were cognizant of the power balls of rock-crystal possess to concentrate 
the sun's rays and of setting fire to bodies. Physicians also used them 
to cauterize certain wounds, in accord with the adage, "After medi- 
cine, the knife; after the knife, fire; after fire, nothing." These balls can 
likewise be employed as microscopes, especially when they are small. 
Minute nature might have been studied as well by the ancients as in our 
day had they beeu so inclined. 

I have not mentioned turquoises, of which there are two kinds, 
both without transparency, One of these is made from the teeth of 
the mastodon and colored with copper, a grecii celadon. It is a kind 
of fossil ivory. The other is a true mineral of the same greenish 
blue color, and is a great deal admired ; it costs about forty francs 
the caret. The turquoise is perfectly imitated by porcelain. This 
stone, without transparency, can scarcely be reckoned among gems : 
it is rather a kind of natural enamel. We have also omitted feldspar, 
which contains an alkaline principle, and which yields stones having a 
mother-of-pearl luster, but without colors. However, when feldspar is 



362 THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 

of a g■oldo^-TeIlo^Y tiut, covered witli little reddish spots, it is cut like a 
gem, but is at the present time very little known ; it is called aventurine. 

After the consideration of crystallized minerals in nature, we sbould 
attempt the imitation of them in the laboratory. I do not mean such 
imitation as paste and color produces. I refer to the reproduction as 
nature gives the gems to us, and propose the making of real i^recious 
stones, such as has been attempted in the case of the diamond. I have 
already said that Ebelman, at Sevres, has crystallized aluminium and 
silex thus making a true spineJIa. M. Despretz, in tbe experiments 
by which he has volatilized charcoal and tbe diamond, has also 
melted aluminium and silex. He has obtained from these substances 
little hollow spheres, lined inside witli crystals, like the cavities which 
are found in mines containing crystals of various kinds. In all the ex- 
periments of Despretz, the exceedingly intense heat whicb he produced 
by electricity only served to dissipate the particles of tbe diamond 
without producing any crystallization. It is therefore evident that the 
diamond is not an igneous production. Its origin is probably electric; 
but what was the epoch of its first production from ordhiary carbon, 
and where did its crystallization begin ? 

According to M. Boutigny, the carbon of the earth comes from 
showers of hydrogen, united with carbon, which watered as it were the 
earth when it was too hot to receive ordiuarj^ rains. We have not yet 
seen the bearing of this hypothesis on the crystallization of the diamond. 
I have already said that sulphur and carbon, in uniting together, produce" 
a liquid as limpid as v.-ater or pure alcohol. Now, with this it might 
be well to try tlie following experiment : Having fdled a strong iron 
bottle with the liquid, and having covered it with an iron stopper, tirmly 
screwed into the neck, I would i>lace it in an oven at 200 or 300 degrees 
centigrade of heat. At this temperature the iron of the bottle and the 
sulphur would possibly react upon each other and enter into combina- 
tion. Now, the sulphur, uniting with the iron, would leave the carbon 
fi-ee, which might thus slowly- arrange itself in the crystalline form. I 
merely propose this experiment, which might require a long-continued 
heat of uniibrm temperature, to illustrate the play of chemical affinity. 
It is possible the effect would be analogous to that which takes place 
when a porous body is plunged into a saline solution, which absorbs 
the water and leaves the salt crystallized on its surface. We should 
inform those who may be tempted to try this experiment, that the 
fluid within the bottle would acquire by beat an immense repulsive force, 
suflicient to break almost any vessel inclosing it, especiall}' one of iron, 
after the metal has been acted on hj sulphur. The old alchemists fre- 
quently met with serious accidents in their attempts to transmute mer- 
cury by overheating it in closed iron vessels. 

We have just said that there is very little chance that nature will 
furnish us with any new minerals. We must therefore depend on the 
results of the laboratory, and examine every substance whose hardness, 



THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. 363 

polish, transparence, and crystallization render them suitable for gems. 
We may afterward discover the method of coloring them, which would 
not seem a verj^ difficult task, from the fact that the coloriug-matter is 
always a foreign substance, and that, in many cases, gems have already 
been artificially colored. Ebelman, by evaporating ether from silica, 
has obtained beautiful specimens of paste, exactly resembling opal. 
Though man may never be able to discover all the processes of nature in 
the production of objects of curiosity or practical utility, yet he is every 
day inducing her to disclose some of the secrets of her operations, either 
as she reveals them spontaneously in the changes of the e^irh or is 
forced to repeat them under the coercion of Iu>t own agents — heat, light, 
and electricity. 



ETHNOLOGY. 



ON TUE LANGUAGE OF THE ABOBIGIXAL INDIANS OF AMERICA. 

By George Gibbs. 

Amoiig- the questions submitted for cousideration at tbo meeting 
of tbe American Pbilological Convention in July, 1SG9, was tbe fol- 
lowing : " What more efficient measures can be taken to preserve 
from destruction tbe languages of tbe aboriginal Indians of America ? " 
Tbis communication embodies tbe substance of my individual views, as 
tben offered, and I now take tbe liberty of presenting tbem to your 
consideration in tbe belief tbat tbe Smithsonian Institution possesses 
tbe only appliances adequate to the task. 

Tbe iutroduction to tbis topic might suggest an account of what has 
already been done in tbe collection of materials on those languages; but 
tbis would involve a multitude of details, chiefly the names of books, 
to criticise which would be out of place. A very full catalogue of all dic- 
tionaries, vocabularies, grammars, and grammatical notices prior to tbe 
year 1858, was compiled by Dr. Hermann E. Ludewig, and pubbshed in 
Lor.don by tbe Messrs. Triibner, with corrections by the late Professor 
Turner. From this it appears that, with tbe exception of a compara- 
tively small number of languages, out of over thirty distinct families 
enumerated by Mr. Gallatin, and not including those of Texas, New 
Mexico, Arizona, or the Mexican States, there are no grammars or dic- 
tionaries worthy of those names. Of the rest of those north of the pres- 
ent Mexican line nearly all that we have consist of mere word vocabu- 
laries, such as have served for tbe comparisons by which tbe various fiimi- 
lies have been distinguished. These are for the most part confined to 
the forms adopted by Mr. Gallatin, and are either of sixty or at most 
one hundred and eighty words, too few to allow any but very close 
afhuities to be recognized, and many of tbe words ill adapted even to 
tbat object. Without disparaging labors of this kind, a very necessary 
preliminary to further examination, it is certain tbat they do not fill tbe 
requirements of philological science at tbe present day. Tbe collections 
already published, and those in manuscript in tbe possession of tbe 
Smithsonian Institution, soon to be put to press, cover nearly tbe whole 
of the American and British possessions, with the exception of a few 
New Mexican pueblos and some scattered and unascertained tribes. 
With tbe publication of these last, what may be considered as tbe pri- 
mary classification of tbe Indian tribes in those territories, on the basis 
of linguistic affinity, is about complete. To go beyond this some new 
standard is required. 



LANGUAGE OF ABORIGINAL INDIANS. 365 

I would suggest, iu the first place, the preparation of a far more copi- 
ous vocabulary, to be based ou the ideas exhibited iu the languages 
already known. The words should be arranged not alphabetically but 
according to subjects, as the only mode consistent with intelligent in- 
quiry, and as permitting the distribution of special or local words; 
for instance, objects familiar to one nation and not to another. Such 
a vocabulary should consist of not less than fifteen hundred words, and 
an even greater number would be advisable. In selecting these words, 
particular reference should be had also to such as are radical or contain 
radicals, and plain instructions be given by which the collector, if he has 
leisure and inclination, may dissect them. 

Secondly. A large number of well-digested phrases, based upon these 
words, calculated to draw out the different forms of speech, and from 
which the grammatical structure of the language can be deduced. 

Thirdly. The i)reparation of a succinct and popular statement of 
the most striking peculiarities of some of the diftereut languages as 
derived from grammars already i^ublished and of well-known authority. 
]^o one who has ever attempted, for the first time, to acquire an Indian 
language but has been foiled, over and again, by a want of knowl- 
edge how to direct his inquiries ; and the most intelligent student has 
labored for a long time without success, where a slight clew would have 
guided him. Although there are certain characteristics which pervade 
almost all American languages, they yet differ greatly from one another 
in the degree in which these are marked, and often in the method iu 
which they show themselves. Some languages, also, have evidently 
reached a far higher degree of culture, so to sj^eak, than others. Iu 
fact, there is as much difference in the grammar and syntax of differ- 
ent Indian languages as in those of the Indo-Germauic stock. In 
many of them a modification of the nnmerals takes i^lace according to 
the nature of the object counted, sometimes indicating whether the 
object is animate or inanimate, at others various other qualities, as form, 
&c. ; and the number of these modifications varies from two in the Selisli 
(one applied to the first, the other to the second class) to over forty in 
the Cakchiquel. In the Otchipwe, or Chippeway, language, on the other 
hand, where the nouns are all divided into animate and inanimate, there 
are a variety of changes in the cardinals, but none ou that principle; 
while in their place there are certain numeral verbs which are animate 
or inanimate according to the object expressed. In the Cherokee this 
principle is not found either in the nouns or numerals, nor are the latter 
modified at all ; but the modifications, which are numerous, including 
animate and inanimate, are confined to the verbs, many of which change 
according to the quality of the object in which the action terminates. 
For example, the verb " to take" is in English simple, no matter what 
is the nature of the thing taken, but in Cherokee there is one form 
signifying to take a pliable object, another to take a long object, others 
to take a liquid, an upright, or a living object, and the particles indi- 



366 ETHNOLOGY. 

catiug these go throng'li all the conjugations, moods, tenses, numbers, 
and persons. It will at once be seen under wliat difiliculties the student 
labors who is not forewarned of these modifications. 

It vvould, of course, be unwise to swell a work intended for i)opular 
use, with all the nice distinctions of these languages, but it is desirable 
that the main features of some leading ones be pointed out; and in my 
ojnnion the best arrangement would be to take each part of si)cech con- 
secutively, and to show those features as varying indifferent languages. 
Those persons who have time and leisure for closer and more intimate 
study could afterward refer to more elaborate grammars. 

Such guides, in the nature of instructions, " Hovr to Observe and What 
to Observe," should, of course, be disseminated widely through the Army, 
among missionaries, agents, surveyors, and other persons residing in or 
traversing the Indian country. It is hoped that in this way a stimulus 
may be given to the exertions of many who only require to know in what 
direction to employ their leisure and tastes. 

In order to the fit preparation of complete and exhaustive works on 
the indigenous languages, it is, however, necessary that there should 
be fit collectors in the field. Among those who have given most time 
to the actual study of our linguistics but few can afford to devote them- 
selves to procuring new material. It is chiefly by missionaries, and by 
the Catholic priesthood especially, that the most valuable vforks on the 
subject have been prepared. Willing collectors of vocabularies have 
not been wanting, but of trained men there are few or none. 

It appears to me that to accomplish any thorough and satisfactory 
result, an attempt should be made to prepare the laboi'ers. It is possible 
that a foundation may hereafter be created for a professorship in some 
leading college where the teaching of American philology will form an 
important item, if not its exclusive object; but that would, at best, reach 
only a few individuals. Some wider method must be adopted to instruct 
a larger number. There has, as yet, been little or nothing of " Universal 
Grammar" taught at any of our institutions. Grammars of special 
languages are taught, it is true, but with hardly an attempt to show 
the common sources whence these are derived, or to exhibit the phonetic 
changes undergone in the lapse of time and under physical iuiluences, 
or to trace back the ideas which have developed, from single roots, words 
of widely different signification, and none at all to develop the principles 
lying at the root of ail speech. 

It is very true that in a short collegiate course, pursued for the most 
part before the mind has become mature enougli to grasp at more tlian 
the fiicts of language, and where utility is the presumed basis, it would 
bo impossible to include such training to any considerable extent, but 
the course might yet be pohited out for after-inquiry. When the time 
comes — and it is to be hoped it will before the last vestiges of the 
aboriginal tongues shall have disappeared — in which general grammar 
becomes a common part of education, the curious modes of thouglit 



ANTIQUITIES IX SOUTHERN STATES. 3G7 

presented by the American natives will doubtless excite rlie interest of 
the student, and every ojiportunity be sought of gathering- up their 
remains. How many languages which have arisen since primeval man 
first trod the earth have perished from its face, each indicating, to a 
certain extent, in its mere words and forms, not only the outvfard cir- 
cumstances in which those races moved, but the degree of their mental 
culture and the character of their thoughts. Ethnology has no surer 
basis than an intelligent philology. One of the least functions of the 
latter is to bring together or distinguish races. 

There is one important point on which I have said nothing. I mean 
the alphabetic system to be adopted. I am clearlj^ of opinion that the 
Eoman and Italic letters should be used wherever practicable, and that 
they are in most cases suflicient. The alphabet prepared by Professor 
Whitnej' for the Smithsonian Institution is simple and intelligible, 
though in particular cases it needs supplementing. Foreign characters 
and redundancy of diacritical marks are objectionable on many grounds. 
It is the difficulty with most systems, as with that of Lepsius, that they 
are beyond the comprehension of any but their inventors, or at least 
require too varied a knowledge and too great nicety for any practical use. 
When a work is undertaken by a European, other than an Englishman, 
it is better, perhaps, that he should write as in his own tongue. That 
will carry a definite meaning at least to those who understand its ])ro- 
nunciation, and will insure a degree of certainty not otherwise to be 
relied upon. The explanation, in writing, of unusual sounds is always 
a hazardous experiment. 

The preparation and publication of such a vocabulary, phrase-book, 
and grammatical guide as I have indicated would, it seems to me, pro- 
perly come within the objects of the Smithsonian Institution, and I feel 
assured, from the interest you liave always manifested in original i)hilo- 
logical research, that the subject will at least meet with consideration. 



OX AXTIQUITIES IN S03IE OF TEE SOUTIIERX STATES. 
By H. C. Williams. 

Near Vienna, Virginia, December 30, ] 8G9. 

Agreeably to i^romise, I send to the Institution a few specimens of 
Indian arrow-heads, all that I have been able to collect. I regret that 
the number of perfect ones is so small. 

In Eranklin County, Tennessee, in the days of my youth, when the 
country was fast filling up by emigrants from the older States, Indian 
relics, such as broken pieces of pottery, pestles, axes, heads of war- clubs, 
and arrow-points, were of frequent occurrence. There was no memorial 
in that part of the country to indace a belief that it had been inhabited 
by any race of aborigines, but '^ ' ^ ?euer^I diffusion of the articles above 



368 ETHNOLOGY. 

named may be received as satisfactory evidence of its having been a 
luuiting-gTound to some not very distant village or encampment. The 
burial-mounds near Chattanooga and Sparta indicate those places as 
headquarters of the tribes for a long duration of time. 

Tiie fragments of pottery were generally of a dark color, not very 
hard or compact, with white specks miugled through the mass as though 
small pieces of shells had been mixed witli the clay, and had not been 
converted into lime by the process of burning. The pestles and other 
implements were fabricated from stones of different colors, apparently 
of a clay basis, and corresponding, in appearance, to rocks which are 
common to the Blue Ridge. jSTo such rocks occur between the Apa- 
lachian chain and the Rocky Mountains. The arrow-heads were made 
from quartz, which of this kind is not found in that country, the siliceous 
miueials, except the sandstone, being more or less cherty, with a semi- 
conchoidal fracture, often associated with and sometimes embedded in 
the limestoue below the coal seams. Rarely an arrow-head of this 
mineral was discovered. 

The mounds near Chattanooga have been already noticed by your 
correspondents. I would it were in my power to direct attention to 
another interesting locality. Of this my only knowledge is obtained 
from a publication, I think in the year 1825, in the Beview, a newspaper 
printed at Sparta, the seat of justice of White County. As well as my 
memory serves me, Dr. Fiske and some other gentleman made an ex- 
amination of an ancient cemetery near that town, and, finding no remains 
of adults, came to the conclusion that the country had been inhabited 
by a race of pigmies. The graves were numerous, covering more than an 
acre, were generally three feet long and eighteen inches deep, with a " cof 
fin" of. slaty rocks. The bones were so much decomposed that they fell 
to pieces after a few moments' exposure to the atmosphere. Perhaps a 
file of the Eeview for that year may be in the Department of State, for 
in it were published the Jaws of Congress, and it was then the custom of 
the Department to bind and preserve such papers. I mention this to 
enable persons iuvestigating Tennessee antiquities to avail themselves 
of the information furnished by writers who observed and described 
those interesting objects before they were changed or obliterated by the 
hand of civilization. In this connection no book will be so likely to 
arrest the attention of the curious as Haywood's History of Tennessee. 
It is to be regretted that this, one of the earlier books published beyond 
the AUeghanies, is now so scarce in the State where the author was 
one of the first and ablest of its jurists. 

In closing this communication, intending in another to notice the 
locality of some mounds and fortifications not alluded to by any of your 
correspondents as I have seen, I will state that when on an excursion into 
the State of Arkansas in the year 1857, I came to a place where doubt- 
less an immense number of arrow-heads had been manufactured. It 
was near the summit of a ridge about two miles north of the Hot 



INDIANS OF EED KIVER OF THE NORTH. 369 

Springs, aud west of tlio road that passes ov^er the ridge. x\t tliat place 
there is au outcrop of the millcy white variety, an iutermediate stratum of 
the celebrated Arkansas novaculite. There the hill-side for about one 
hundred yards in length was literally covered by thin chippiugs of that 
mineral. Dr. Sibley and Dr. Dunbar, who explored the Arkansas, 
Washita, and Eed Elvers during Mr. Jefferson's administration, men- 
tioned in their report that they had discovered a place where Indian 
implements had been made. I have not seen the report for many years, 
and cannot say whether this is the locality alluded to by them, but think 
it is, for they were at the Hot Springs, and there is not another mineral 
in the State so well adapted as the novaculite to this purpose. This is 
the only place in the Southwest that 1 have seen which affords any evi- 
dence of the fiibrication of implements used by a people whose history 
is unknown. At Santa Fe, in 1858, a gentleman showed me several 
arrow-points that had been formed out of the obsidian found in that 
country, and a few days afterward, in the village of Casa Colorado, 
I gathered up a small quantity of that mineral in thin flakes that had 
obviously been chipped off in fashioning arrow-heads. By careful atten- 
tion to the mineral characteristics of those ancient implements, espe- 
cially when composed of as rare minerals as the novaculite and obsidian, 
we may be able to trace the migrations of the people who used them. 

The report of Dr. Sibley, no doubt, can be found in the congressional 
documents of the period or in the reprint of them by Messrs. Gales and 
Seaton. It contains information that would be appreciated by i)ersdns 
engaged in ethnological or philological researches. Among other things 
it states that two tribes of Indians, the Natchez and Ten saws, if my 
memory is correct, were at war, that one party was disastrously defeated, 
and escaped over the Mississippi into Louisiana. On making a halt, the 
first thing they did was to throw up a mound. This is the only record 
that I have seen of a mound being constructed within traditional 
history. 



ETHNOLOGY OF THE INDIANS OF THE VALIEY OF THE RED RIVER OF THE 

NORTH. 

By Dr. W. IT. Gardner, 

Assistant Surgeon United States Armi/. 

The earliest explorers of Minnesota found the Dakotas occupying all 
this country they now roam over or have only latelj' ceded their title to. 
In prehistoric times what race dwelt here cannot be told ; the burial 
mounds and crumbling skeletons, the "refuse heaps" and fragments of 
rude pottery, point to some branch of the "mound builders," but whether 
Nahoas, Toltecs, or Aztecs, will probably never be known. 

About Big Stone Lake, Lake Traverse, and the west bank of the Eed 
Eiver of the North and the country adjacent, for many years past, the 
24 S 



370 ETHNOLOGY. 

Sisseton and Walipeton bands of Dakotas have resided ; almost as rude 
and ignorant as tlie lowest branch of the Athabascan stock, yet they 
are tractable and show a desire for bettering their condition. Their 
manners, customs, and language do not differ essentially from the other 
bands of the great Dakota Nation, save from the aberrant branches, the 
Yanktonais and Tetous ; neither can those bands understand the Wah- 
kautans, Wahpetons, Wahpecutas, the Wabashaw band, the Black-Dog 
band, the Eed Wing band, &c. The language used by them is con- 
structed on the well known polysynthetic plan, and is so well known 
that one or two dictionaries have been published of the language. 

Polygamy is common among them, each brave having as many wives 
as he chooses and can support, but lately some of them have embraced 
the Christian religion and have " put away" all their wives but one. 
Their Christian system, ingrafted upon their former fetichism, has resulted 
in a curious mongrel theology, which would puzzle even Buddha to under- 
stand. They have the same cruel instincts that always characterize a 
race of hunters ; hardly one has come under my observation that has 
not more or less of small scars upon the body, purj^osely made with 
fife or cutting instruments, to show they have " brave hearts," yet my 
experience with them in sickness has been that they bear necessary 
pain quite as badly as even negroes. Their tribal government is a rude 
democracy, if that can be called a government whose most binding 
law is the lex talionis ; nor do they recognize any head or chief save him 
who is bravest in war and most persuasive in council. Their legends 
and traditions are too well known to require only passing comment. 
Some of them are pleasing and instructive; but the most of them are 
puerile beyond description, and it is very hard to tell what purpose of 
national or social economy they could possibly subserve. The most of 
them are detailed at length in " Mrs. Eastman's Legends of the Sioux." 

Of the arts of life they are almost entirely ignorant ; even the ceramic 
art, with which most of savage tribes are necessarily acquainted, they 
are now ignorant of, though it would seem that before their communi- 
cation with the whites they know something of this art and used pottery 
made by themselves to cook their food in. After communication with 
the whites, and a knowledge of metallic vessels for the purpose of cook- 
ing, the art of making pottery was gradually neglected until it has now 
been lost. At all events the Indians of these bands know of no Avay of 
boiling their raw food now save by digging a hole in the ground and 
covering it with the skin of an animal recently killed, into which are 
poured the water and the food to be cooked ; stones are then heated in 
an adjacent fire and held in this novel pot until the meat is done. As 
to their cooking. Professor Soyer, Monsieur Blot, or the most wonder- 
ful clicf de cuisine that ever raised a pot lid, would stand amazed to see 
the wonderful heterogeneous mass combined to make one of their alias — 
beasts, birds, reptiles, and fishes, berries, herbs, and roots, thrown 
together into the pot all in purus naturalibus, and stewed into a disgust- 



INDIANS OF RED RIVER OF THE NORTH. 371 

ing paste. And tlie amount of this one of these '' sons of the forest" 
will eat, will cause even an anatomist to wonder at the distensibility of 
the human stomach. 

Until 18G1 those about this locality — chiefly Sissetons — lived entirely 
by hunting and fishing. About this time some of them were furnished 
corn and potatoes by their agent, and they commenced to cultivate the 
soil, but shortly afterward, from causes not relevant to mention here, 
the Dakota outbreak occurred. The Sisseton and Wahpeton bands 
were im])licated with the others, and the distrust and animosities this 
has necessarily engendered have much delayed their civilization. 

The men are rather over medium height, are well made, and many of 
them are intelligent-looking, some even handsome. The type of their 
heads, with their " low defective forehead," the vertical occiput, the 
prominent vertex, and great interparietal diameter, hardly need men. 
tion, though it is deserving of remark that the "low defective forehead" 
js not so characteristic of the crania of the Sisseton band as of some of 
the other bands of the Dakota Nation. Their shades of color show con- 
siderable variation ; many of them on the parts of the body not habitu- 
ally exposed are not darker than many brunettes with us, while others 
in the same band are of a deep bronze or even coppery brown color. 
As a rule their hands and feet are small and delicately formed, and as 
a people they are remarkably free from deformities. Their hard " strug- 
gle for existence" probably acts on the principle of " natural selection" 
to keep up the best and hardiest of the stock, while the weaklings and 
the deformed die off. I have seen but one deformed Indian during my 
stay here. He was a Wahpeton with a simple case of " hair lip," which 
its owner refused to allow me to operate upon. They are enthusiastic 
and excitable gamblers, and will stake their ponies and even their wives 
on a game of " moccasin." The females are short in stature and broad 
and more ungainly than the males ; they possess great strength and 
great power of physical endurance, as is commonly the case among 
uncivilized tribes, where the women are the drudges and slaves of the 
males. I am inclined to the belief that the females arrive at the age of 
Ijuberty before the age usual among civilized females. I have seen one 
Sisseton girl who was the mother of a healthy child — which she was 
nursing — when but thirteen years of age, and two or three who were 
mothers before they had quite attained the ago of fourteen ; though 
this precocity may be caused by the promiscuous intercourse of the 
sexes in their rude manner of life. Writers have spoken of the dreary 
existence of Dakota women, and nothing that has been said can draw 
too exaggerated a picture of the never-ending drudgery of their lives, 
uncheered even by the hope of happiness in the spirit land ; therefore 
suicide is very common among them ; even for trivial causes a Dakota 
woman will cut a thong of bulfalo hide and hang herself. A case came 
under my observation a few weeks since where the wife of one of the 



372 ETHNOLOGY'. 

scouts here liimg herself to the ridge-pole of her tent just because her 
husbaud told her she should not make a visit which she wished to do. 

Under the provisions of General Order No. 27, Headquarters Depart- 
ment of Dakota, St. Paul, Minnesota, dated May 11), 18G7, friendly 
Indians have been enlisted as scouts and guides, since which time fifteen 
of them have been on duty at this post in that capacity. Those here 
are all full-blooded Indians of the Sisseton band of Dakotas. They are 
ambitious and zealous in the perforinance of their duties, and take a 
pride in keeping" their clothes, bedding, equipments, arms, and horses 
neat and in good order, and I believe this is the testimony which all 
their commanders will give; and it shows that they can be made valu- 
able auxiliaries in prosecuting warfare against Indian tribes "avowedly 
and obstinately hostile." Those on duty here show no repugnance or 
even disinclination to work, and the scouts have taken their regular 
tour of "police duty" with the rest of the enlisted men, and have shamed 
them by their willingness to do this duty. 

One of the scouts here is tattooed with a "totem" of an open right 
hand, back to the front, placed vertically in the center of the forehead. 
This is the onlj- instance which has come under my observation of any 
tribal or family mark or "totem" among them. 

The Chippewas occupy the country east of the Eed River of the North, 
in Minnesota, about the lakes forming the source of the Mississippi 
Eiver and Eed Lake farther north. Though they are occasional visitors 
to the post, they are situated too far away to be described as Indians 
about the post. 

The valley of the Eed Eiver of the aSTorth on both sides is the peculiar 
habitat of half-bloods, (Bois Brules, or Couriers des Bois,) a mixture of 
the blood of the lawless white traders (who until recent times were the 
only white people in the country) and Indian women. These half-bloods, 
the result of this mixture, are tall, well formed and hardy, with dark 
eyes and swarthy skin, and black, straight hair, though occasionally one 
is seen with the hair curly. The general shape of the head and face is 
much like the Indians, Their vernacular is a lyatois of the French, 
though they usually speak the language of both parepts. They are 
natural-born hunters and trappers, scouts, guides, and interpreters, and 
are a valuable link of communication between the tax-paying citizen 
and the untamed red man. These people have no "local habitation;" 
like their half-brothers, the Indians, they live in tents of tanned bufialo 
hide, which they move whenever and wherever inclination or the pursuit 
of game may lead them. They have the same freedom from moral and 
social restraint as the Indian. Thej' eat anything and everything, even 
the flesh of dogs and wolves poisoned with strichniue, and think a foetal 
calf of cow or buffalo unc honnc houclw; they wallow in dirt and vermin, 
and are remarkably healthy and tenacious of life. Their severe, laborious 
lives probably prevent them from being very prolific, but it also acts to 
make them healthy and long-lived. Even syphilitic diseases, which (with 



ANTIQUITIES IN VERA CRUZ. 373 

the loose virtue of their women) it woukl seem would be particularly 
prevalent, do not appear to attack them at all. At least, not one of 
these cases among them has been brought to my notice. 



ACCOTOT OF ANTIQUITIES L\ THE STATE OF VERA CRUZ, MEXICO. 

By Hugo Fixck, of Cordova. 

A few general remarks relative the traces left by the aborigines of 
this neighborhood may not be uninteresting. As a resident of twenty- 
eight years in this part of the country, (Cordova, Huatusco, and Mero- 
dor,) and during my many botanical excursions, I have had good oppor- 
tunities to examine them. These traces are of two kinds — the first be- 
longing to a semi-barbarous ; the second to a half-civilized people, who, 
for a long period of years, must have lived together as neighbors, but 
in a state of continual dissensions. 

Like the actual descendants of the Aztecs, the semi-barbarous people 
built their houses, or rather huts, of light timber, covering the roof with 
palm-leaves or dried grass. Nothing else was required by them in a 
tropical climate, where the thermometer never descends below 55° 
Fahrenheit. Of such constructions no trace whatever is left, and if it 
were not for the innumerable mounds of stone of different dimensions, 
some united, others isolated, and which were always annexed to their 
dwellings, we would come to the conclusion, either that they had no 
dwellings, or that the country was very thinly inhabited. The very 
contrary was the case. There is hardly a foot of ground in the whole 
state of Vera Cruz in which, by excavation, either a broken obsidian 
knife, or a broken piece of pottery is not found. The whole country is 
intersected with parallel lines of stones, which were intended, during 
the heavy showers of the rainy season, to keep the earth from washing 
away. The number of those lines of stones shows clearly that even the 
poorest land, which in our days nobody would cultivate, was put under 
requisition by them ; furthermore, when we consider that their imple- 
ments of agriculture were very primitive or almost null, requiring a so 
much larger space of ground for their sustenance, we must come to the 
conclusion that the population must have been immense, or at least as 
large as the most populated districts of Europe. In this part of the 
country no trace of iron or copper tools has ever come under my notice. 
Their implements of husbandry and war were of hard stone,. but gen- 
erally of obsidian and of wood. 

The small mounds of stones near their habitations have the form of a 
parallelogram, and are not over twenty-seven inches high. Their length 
is from five to twelve yards, their width from two to four. On search- 
ing into them nothing is found. A second class of mounds is round, in 
the form of a cone, always standing singly. They are built of loose 



374 



ETHNOLOGY. 



Stones and eartb, and of various sizes ; some as Ligli as five yards, with 
a diameter of from five to twenty yards. Excavation made in them 
brought to light a large pot of burned clay filled with ashes, but 
in general nothing is found. The third class of mounds, also built of 
loose stones and earth, have the form of a parallelogram, whose smaller 
sides look east and west, and are from five to six yards high, terminating 
at the top in a level space of from three to five yards in width, the base 
being from eight to twelve yards. They are found from fifteen to two 
hundred yards long. Sometimes several are united, forming a hollow 
square, which must have been used as a fortress. Others again have 
their outer surface made of masonry, but still the inside is filled up with 
loose stones and earth. Near river-beds, where stones are very abund- 
ant, these tumuli are largest. Principally in this latter class, idols, im- 
plements of husbandry and war are discovered, sometimes lying quite 
loose, and at others imbedded in hollow square boxes made of masonry. 

The last-described mounds form the transition to those constructions, 
which are altogether built of solid masonry. I speak only of such as 
are found near Cordova, Huatusco, Cotastla, &c., in the state of Vera 
Cruz. One peculiarity of the last-men- 
tioned ruins is, that they are all con- 
structed at the junction of two ravines, 
(barrancas, cations,) Fig. 1, and used as 
fortresses, on account of their impreg- 
nability. Most of the larger barrancas 
have precipitous sides from three hun- 
dred to one thuosand feet deep, which 
guarded the inhabitants on their flank, 
so that nothing more was required than 
to build a wall from A to B, leaving a 
small entrance in the middle, C, as a 
passage, which could be barricaded in 
time of war. Between Zacuapan and 
Tlacotepec, at the Eancho del Castille, 
at Matlaluca, at Cotastla and Consoqui- 
tla, such constructions can be seen to this 
day in tolerable good condition. The in- 
terior of these fortified iuclosures is in general large, sometimes holding 
from four to five square miles, and could be put under cultivation in 
case of a siege. 

The wall A B is in general from four to five yards high, and has on 
the inside terraces with steps to lead to the top. At other places there 
is a series of semicircular walls, the front one lower than the following, 
and a passage between each to permit one person at a time to pass from 
one to the other. The innermost wall is sometimes perforated with loop- 
holes through which arrows could be thrown. 

Quite a number of ruins are found inside the fortification, as mounds, 



I 




ANTIQUITIES IN VERA CRUZ. 375 

altars, good level roads with a foundation of mortar. Most of these 
monuments have good preserved steps leading to the top. In some 
very small jjots of burned clay are found filled with ashes. 

Between the simple mounds of loose stone and earth and the last- 
mentioned monuments we may easily discern two classes of people — one 
semi^barbarous and the other tolerably advanced in civilization — living 
continually at war with each other, imjoeding on that account a higher 
grade of civilization than that found at the arrival of Cortez with his 
Spaniards. 

Civilization in all countries has been very gradual and must always 
have commenced in warm climates. It was in Asia, in Africa, in the 
tropical parts of China, Syria, Egypt, «&c., where we find the oldest 
monuments, where the people as far as 3,000 years back had made some 
l)rogress. The inhabitants of colder countries were, up to that time, in 
a barbarous state, and only received civilization by contact with the 
others or by conquest. This may be accounted for in the following man- 
ner: The first knowledge we have of man is in a tropical climate. It is 
there where vegetation the whole year round is luxuriant ; where fruits 
of all kinds are abundant, furnishing him with food without exertion ; 
where a hot climate dispenses with all covering against cold 5 where the 
first necessities once satisfied he had leisure, if endowed with a lively 
imagination, which is natural to people of hot countries, to set his wits 
to work in order to better his condition. One step followed another, 
creating daily new necessities. Those of a strong arm imposed on the 
weaker, and obliged them to work for them or for the community. In 
this way civilization gradually advanced. 

jS^ow let us transfer ourselves to a cold country. Its primitive inhab- 
itants had to guard against the weather in winter, which obliged them 
to become hunters in order to slay the wild beasts wbich were to 
serve them as clothing as also to allay the cravings of hunger. Wild 
fruits could only be gathered in summer and autumn, and were much 
less abundant than in the tropics, so that their whole time was occupied 
in attending to the necessities of their existence, or in guarding against 
the cold of winter, being continually slaves to their wants, leaving them 
no leisure to better their condition. History has shown that such has 
been the case throughout all cold countries, and that civilization made 
very little progress there until the inhabitants came in contact with 
more southern nations. The same has happened in America. Where 
do we find the traces of higher civilization on this continent? Is it in 
British America, in New England, iu Oregon, or in Patagonia? No! 
In tropical America. The same causes have created the same effect. 
Peru, Ecuador, Yucatan, and Mexico, all countries between the tropics, 
have taken the first steps toward advancement. The yet existing monu- 
ments speak for themselves. 

From Palenque, in Yucatan, and Quito, in Ecuador, as centers, civil- 
ization spread north and south, but found much greater resistance by 



376 ETHNOLOGY. 

the ueigliboring savage tribes than iu the old continents. In some hot 
countries, as Guiana, Brazil, topical reasons have retarded this ; as 
yearly inundations; excessive number of insects, particularly mosqui- 
toes ; wild beasts, &c. 

After the first progress of civilization the neighboring savage tribes, 
among which we may count the Aztecs, who appear to have been in 
nothing different from our contemporary Comanches, Arapahoes, Sioux, 
&c., made,like of old the Scandinavians, irruptions on their more southern 
neighbors, destroying again partially what had been gained, but accept- 
ing part of the advantages of their conquered people. The inhabitants 
of Central America were much farther advanced before the dissemination 
of those barbarous tribes than at the arrival of Cortez. This is shown 
by the ruins still in existence. It was a great misfortune. Those savages, 
less docile than the Goths, were slow in receiving the advantages of their 
conquest. Accustomed to a roaming life, expert in war, they destroyed 
in a few years what had cost thousands to build. Then commenced a 
reign of terror. The vanquished were obliged to work for their con- 
querors, creating those rude monuments, as the stone-mounds, the 
pyramid of Cholulu, and other similar works, which could only have 
emanated from the brains of half-savages, and been executed by a peo- 
ple completely enslaved. But this had its limit. The conquerors 
gradually accepted such benefits from their vassals as suited them, so 
that if the Spaniards had not arrived, civilization would have taken a 
new start, as at this time the Aztecs were strong enough to keep at bay 
all new irruptions from the north. 

Aztec hieroglyphics are too obscure to give us a longer insight into 
their history than for a century or two at most. Spanish historians have 
given free scope to their lively imagination, exaggerating and distort- 
ing whatever came under their hands. The Spanish clergy seized and 
burned what could throw any light on history, and wrote about what 
best suited them. The real and only true documents we can with safety 
count upon are the monuments, ruins, implements of industry and war, 
which are yet in existence ; anything else will only lead us astray. 



CCOIJNT OF ANTIQUITIES IN TENNESSEE. 

By E. O. Duxnln'G. 

Chilhowee, Tennessee, June 19, 1S70. 
The territory recently explored by myself lies along Little Tennessee 
River, in Blount County, Tennessee, and extends about twenty-live miles 
into North Carolina, a country once inhabited by the Cherokees. One 
of their principal routes from the south to the "Over-hill Towns" passed 
through it. For miles the old trail may be seen crossing Chilhowee 
Mountain in a straight line, according to the Indian course, between 



ANTIQUITIES IN TENNESSEE. 377 

two poiuts, wliicli was always direct, without regard to obstacles. 
Lately I had an opportiuiity of observing this peculiarity. While wind- 
ing my way around the base of a mountain in North Carolina, I saw 
some Cherokees going to the same point as myself, right over the crest 
of the mountain, by a more direct but more difiicult route. 

Ghilhowee derives its name from two words, which mean lire and deer. 
The Indians were accustomed to hunt by fire. At night they carried 
before them torches — blazing pine-knots — in the face of their game, 
which, becoming frightened by the glare, were easily brought to a stand 
and killed by the hunter, who, resting his gun across the left arm, held 
the torch in his right hand until the deer was enough terrified to be 
shot down. The old trail over Ghilhowee is used now by the " mail-boy"' 
once a week, and by foot-travelers like myself, who are warned not to 
take horses beyond the mountain for fear of their being stolen. 

In Ghilhowee Valley, after crossing its northern boundary by the i3ass, 
I examined two mounds on the left bank of Little Tennessee and sev- 
eral rock graves, or tombs, near them. These tombs are unlike any 
depositories of the ancient dead that I liave observed. They were, un- 
doubtedly, constructed by the " mound-builders," as similar ones were 
discovered in the mounds containing similar relics. The great freshet 
of 1867 uncovered a large number of these graves on the "river-bot- 
tom" or alluvial terrace, which had been plowed over for seventy years. 
They are built of slabs of slate, nicely fitted together, about three inches 
thick, four feet long, and two feet broad, inclosing receptacles, not of 
uniform space — generally five feet long, four feet high, and two feet 
broad — covered with flat pieces resting upon the upright slabs, and con- 
forming to the rounded corners of the tomb. The material had been 
brought from the other side of the river, as no slate was found in the 
vicinity of the constructions. They were found to contain, for the most 
part, fragments of human bones, too much decomposed to l)e removed 
iu considerable portions, implements of stone, and broken vessels of 
clay. From the head of one I extracted a vase of black pottery, nearly 
whole, shaped like a. gourd; it had been filled with vegetable matter, 
which, perhaps, was intended to sustain the spirit on its journey 
to the other world, some flint arrow-heads, and a stone pipe. Gharcoal, 
ashes and burned clay indicated that fire had been used in" the burial, 
by which bones and many other relics were consumed. 

Judging from the form and size of these graves, the dead must have 
been inclosed in a sitting or crouched position, often bent nearly double. 
The bones were those of adults, and their juxtaposition, in some in- 
stances, showed that they could not have been deposited indiscrimi- 
nately, after the decomi)osition or removal of the flesh, according to the 
custom of some modern Indians. Fragments of the skull-bone, with 
teeth and jaws, were found at the head of a grave Avhich pointed toward 
the west, and the bones of the foot at the other end. In connection 
with the first were vertebrae and other portions of the trunk and cor- 



378 ETHNOLOGY. 

responding members of the skeleton, which had crumbled and fallen 
down together, and which would naturally occur if the body had been 
set upright or slightly bent over. 

I did not expect to find rock graves in a mound of earth, but after 
clearing away rubbish and penetrating six feet below the top, near the 
center, the workmen struclc a slab of slate, which proved to be part of 
the covering of a stone tomb. It was much like those scattered over 
the "river-bottom" — more nicely constructed, however, and fitted with 
more care — being arched over the top, at an acute angle, with pieces of 
slate three inches thick. Owing to its situation, raised above the level 
of the river and covered with sand to the depth of six feet, its contents 
were better preserved than those of the graves just mentioned. At the 
head of it I took out a vessel composed of fine red clay and pulverized 
muscle-shells, a foot in diameter, gourd-shaped, having a handle and spout 
six inches long, and holding about a quart. It was i^reserved nearly 
whole. Artificial fire had been kindled in the tomb, but it had been 
smothered by the throwing in of sand before all the contents were con- 
sumed. Besides some entire bones of the human skeleton, flint arrow- 
heads and a large number of shell and stone beads were removed. The 
beads could be traced along the lines of the legs and arms, as if they 
had been attached to the garment in which the dead was buried. Fur 
tlier excavations disclosed two more of these stone sepulchers, the first 
three feet below the one described, the other two feet from it, in the same 
plain. They contained only fragmeiit.f of bones, charcoal, and ashes. 

The mound, which was conical in shape, must have been fifteen feet 
high and fifty feet in diameter. Successive floods had impaired its orig- 
inal dimensions. The last carried away a section on the west side, ex- 
posing a tomb and some valuable relics, wliich have not been preserved. 
Among them were large shells — pyrulas, probably, judging from the de- 
scription, from the Gulf of Mexico — such as 1 have discovered in two 
other mouiids on the banks of the Tennessee, and which are deposited 
in the Peabody Museum of Harvard College. In connection with ma- 
rine shells, images in stone were found in this tomb. The mound was 
composed of sand-loam taken from the bank of the river and raised 
upon a foundation of water-washed rocks, four feet high from the bed 
of the stream hard by. There 'had been extensive burnings throughout 
this mound, at various depths, indicated by layers of charcoal, ashes, 
and burned clay, simply in honor of the dead or to consume their eftects 
and mortal parts, or for human sacrifices to their manes. 

As no relics, except fragments of charred bones, not even stone imple- 
ments, that would escape destruction by fire were found, after careful 
searching among extensive layers, I am inclined to the opinion that cap- 
tives in war were freely slain and burned, for a sacrificial ofl:ering to the 
dead in the tombs. It is not probable that a people so particular about 
their burial-rites, as shown not only in the mound-sepulchers, but in 
those scattered over the plain, which we may suppose contained their 



ANTIQUITIES IN TENNESSEE. 379 

common dead, would liave assigned a largo number of their tribe, after 
death, to a i)ronuscuous or general conliagration. Fire, as is \Yell 
known, bore an important part in the obsequies of the " mound builders," 
but so as to show neither in the extent and comi)osition of the charred 
layers, nor in the kind of relics preserved, the design of the burnings. Two 
other mounds were found in Ohilhowee Valley, which will be described 
at some future time. The tradition, as derived from a lady over eighty 
years of age, who lived in her youth among the Cherokees, is, that these 
mounds were made by a people inhabiting the country long before the 
recent Indian race; that their fathers found them there and did not dis- 
turb them, a statement which confirms all oral testimony respecting 
those monuments. 

Leaving Chilhowee Valley and crossing the Alleghany range toward 
North Carolina, in a southeast course, having Little Tennessee Eiver on 
my right and occasionally in sight from the cliffs, my attention was 
called, along the road, to "stone heaps," a class of antiquities not often 
mentioned and seldom distinguished in books. After an examination 
of the objects and a talk with Indians and the oldest inhabitants, I came 
to the conclusion that there were two kinds of these remains in this part 
of Tennessee, which are sometimes confounded, viz, landmarks, or stone- 
piles, thrown together by the Indians at certain points in their journeys, 
and those which marked a place of burial. At a pass called " Indian 
Grave Gap," I noticed the pile which has given its name to the mountain- 
gorge. The monument is composed simply of round stones raised three 
feet above the soil, and is six feet long and three feet wide. As the grave 
had been disturbed I could make no satisfactory examination of its con- 
tents. On the opposite side of "The Gap," a stone heap of another 
description was observed, which had been thrown together in accord- 
ance with Cherokee superstition, that assigned some good fortune to the 
accumulation of those piles. They had the custom, in their journeys and 
war-like expeditions, at certain known points, before marked out, of 
casting down a stone and upon their return another. In this way, in 
time, a landmark became a conspicuous object. It may be distinguished 
from grave-stone heaps, which wer<i composed of large round stones of 
uniform size; the other of small stones, of no particular shape, such as 
could be easily taken up and hastily thrown down. Four miles from 
"Indian Grave Gap," on the west side of my path, on a ridge destitute 
of vegetation, I observed twenty-five of these stone heaps which covered 
human remains. I examined a number of them, which were four or five 
feet high and eight in diameter, and shaped like a hay-cock. Trees 
three and four feet thick had grown and decayed on some of them. In 
one I found pieces of rotten wood that had been deposited there, frag- 
ments of bones, and animal mold. The deposit had been made on the 
surface of the earth, covered with wood and bark, and crowned with a 
cone of round stones. From the center of one heap three small bells 
were extracted, having the letters J II engraved on them. They much 



380 ETHNOLOGY. 

resemble sleigh-bells of the Northern States, and must have been obtained 
from Europeans having intercourse with the Indians. The bells were 
used as "tinkling ornaments" by Cherokee women in their dances, and 
were attached to bear-skin belts that were bound about their limbs. 

The great number of rattle-snakes that I encountered on the ridge pre- 
vented a thorough examination of the place in the heat of summer, an 
employment that may be resumed at a future time. 

The stone heaps were put up, undoubtedly, by the Oherokees of a re- 
cent period. My researches did not throw much light upon their antiquity, 
but they were found to differ essentially, in structure and contents, from 
the rock tombs of the "mound-builders," already described, and they 
must have had a later origin. 

The Cherokee custom of burying the dead under heaps of stone, it is 
well known, was practiced as late as 1730. After free intercourse with 
the whites their custom of inhumation prevailed with the natives. Con- 
sidering the dilapidation, the condition of the animal remains, and the 
decay of vegetation that indicated the former growth of trees of more 
than a century, I regarded those piles that came under my observa- 
tion as being two or three hundred years old. The bells, silver orna- 
ments, and coin discovered in them belong, of course, to the age of metals 
in this country, which may have begun on the banks of the Little Tennes- 
see more than three hundred years ago. In 1G90 trading-stations were 
established there by northern adventurers. 



ACCOUNT OF ANCIENT MOUNDS IN GEORGIA. 

By M. F. Stephenson, Gainesville, Georgia. 

The most extensive and perfect tumuli exist in Bartow County, on the 
Etowah River, near Cartersville, consisting of ten mounds, situated in 
the bend of the river, and protected from attack on the land side by a 
moat, which is from twenty to thirty feet deep and was doubtless once 
filled with water. The central mound is square, and measures one hun- 
dred and iifty feet on the top,* with raised platform on the east side 
twenty feet high and forty wide, evidently where sacrifices were offered, 
as an idol of sandstone was plowed up on it, with excavated disks or 
mortars six inches in diameter and of translucent quartz of elegant work- 
manship, the stone axe, a small native copper vessel, the perforated shell, 
(which is found in all the mounds,) the mica mirror, and the only gold 
beads ever found, native gold being found in the neighborhood. This 
mound is eighty-eight feet high, and a few rods from it is a circular one, 
sixty feet high, which twenty years ago had a parapet on top five feet 
in height. The remainder are small and only about twenty feet high. 
Two points in the ditch are excavated an acre square as deep as the 

* It is not exactly a quadrangle, but the north side is 150 feet; the eastern, 160 feet; 
.southeastern, 100 feet; south, 90 feet; aud the western side, 100 feet. 



EXPLORATIONS IN TENNESSEE. 381 

t 
moat, to procure earth to raise the mounds. The vaHey and country 

for thh'ty miles westward and northward is very fertile, and exhibits 
evidences everywhere of having been densely peopled hy the mound- 
builders. 

At the falls of Little River, near the Alabama line, on the crest of the 
fall, are three chambers hewed out of the solid sandstone; and at jS'a- 
coochee the crest of a conical hill was cut off at about fifty feet, so as to 
embrace an acre and a half, which on tvv^o sides is quite precipitous, and 
on the others has a ditch and wall, which was formerly six feet high, 
inclosing about twenty acres. This was doubtless used by De Soto in 
the battle he had with the Cherokees in 15-iO, which is proved by the 
relics which have been found. 

At Macon are stupendous remains, as also in Campbell County, on 
the Chattahoochee. The Yond Mountain, four thousand feet high, of 
solid granite, is a cone, crested with trees, but perx)endicular on all sides 
except one space, which was walled with stone; so was the Stone Moun- 
tain, which is, without exaggeration, two thousand three hundred and 
sixty feet high, a cone, and accessible on one side only; this was walled 
with stone. All defensible mountains in this country were fortified, 
li'either the Cherokees, Creeks, nor Seminoles had any tradition of this 
extinct race, which is proved to have been a powerful and despotic na- 
tion from the extent of their territory and the stupendous character of 
their fortifications and cemeteries. 



EXPLORATIONS IX TENNESSEE. 
By E. a. Daytox. 

Knoxville, Tennessee, Ayril 9, 1868. 

I left this place on Saturday last, and reached the house of Wm. 
Stajjles, in Roane County, on the evening of the same day. I went via 
Cross's Ford of the Clinch River ; thence via Robertsville. The distance 
is about twenty-eight to thirty miles. Staples's farm is on the west side 
of Poplar Creek and on the lino of Anderson County. On Monday I 
made an examination of the salt well or lick, and the Indian remains 
spoken of in the newspaper article I sent you. They are located a mile 
south of west of Staples's house, one-fourth of a mile from Poplar 
Creek, and on a small branch, in which the water was about three inches 
deep and four feet wide ; it flows between hills, and a well is at the 
base of one of the hills which is about one hundred or one hundred and 
tv/euty-flve feet high. The rock is a clay shale. The well is about five 
to five and a half feet in diameter, and is full of water to the top, which 
is about on the same level as the water in the branch. There was little 
or no wat^r flowing from it. It was possibly a little brackish or sulphur- 
ish, but very little of either. The well did not appear to be stoned uj}, ])ut 



382 ETIIXOLOGY. 

to have been dug through the loose shale rock. I ran a pole down iuto the 
water and mnd from twelve to fifteen feet, and it did not tbeu touch 
hard bottom. A quantity of logs and sticks had lately been taken from 
the well ; they were much decayed. On the opposite side of the branch, 
and a little down it, say about sixty to seventy-five feet from the well, 
were Indian remains. They covered a space of about thirty by fifty 
feet, and about three to four feet above the water in the branch. The 
soil is a vegetable mold from six to eighteen inches deep, through which 
are found fragments of earthen-ware, ashes, and burned stones. I dug a 
treuch, twenty feet long and as deep as any remains were to be found, 
along the center from one side of this place. The bottom of the branch 
is the shale in i)lace, and there is no deep soil, that about the well being 
about a foot deep, made up of loose stone. This place was pointed out 
to me by Mr. Staples as being the one spoken of in the paper, and 
where he had found fragments of earthen kettles of a diameter, as indi- 
cated by their curvature, of over three feet. Half a mile east of the 
dwelliug of Mr. Staples, on a low ridge, and about the same distance 
west of Poplar Creek, are three mounds. They are on nearly a straight 
line north and south, and one hundred and fift^' feet apart. The south one 
is fifty feet in diameter and six and a half feet high, round and oval on 
top. They have all been plowed over for several years ; very small frag- 
ments of bones are found about them now, and I was told that human 
remaius were plowed up on all of them. I dug a trench across the center 
of the south one, nine feet long, seven and a half deep, and two wide ; I 
went below the streak of black soil the mound vras built ou. The earth 
of the mounds is of the same color as that in the fields on all sides, 
only it was streaked a little with darker colored earth. The middle one 
of the mounds was only about four feet high ; I did not dig into it. 
The nortli one was about sixty feet long from the southeast to the 
northwest, of an oval shape, and about forty feet wide. I dug down 
iuto this one about three and a half feet, and found nothing. In the 
fields I found a quantity of arrow-heads, but not a particle of pottery. 
A third of a mile to the southeast, on lower ground, is another mound 
a little larger than the first one described. I did not dig into it. 

I left Mr. Staples on Tuesday morning, and traveled via the old salt- 
works, three miles up the creek from his house. Salt was made here 
years ago, before the completion of the railroads ; and Staples made some 
there during the war, using the coal obtained from the hills only one- 
half to three-fourths of a mile from the well ; but as the brine is weak it 
does not pay now to work the well. I reached the house of Alfred 
Cross, on the west side of Clinch Iliver, and five miles down it from 
Clinton, about noon. I had heard of the finding of many Indian relics 
on the opposite side of the river, on the lands of George and John John- 
son, they having been washed out of the soil on the river-bottom by 
the flood of last year. I crossed the river and went to the house of C. E. 
Robins. A negro man in his employ had found and gave me the shal- 



EXPLOEATIONS IN TENNESSEE. 383 

low round dish I send yoii, and the soapstone pipe. The piece was 
broken out of the side after it was found. Of Eobius's people I also got 
the jar, and the smaller jug, or whatever it may be called, I then went 
to the Johnson's; they had had two larger vessels than these, but let 
the children use them for playthings, and they broke them up. Jerry 
then showed me to the place on the river where these things had been 
found ; the water is now twenty-five to thirty feet below the level of the 
bottom, and it was covered, judging by the marks, along the higher 
land, six to twelve feet deep. Along this bottom, for one-half to three- 
fourths of a mile, and for one hundred to three hundred feet from the 
bank, every yard of the soil has fragments of pottery, burned sand- 
stones, and shells, and flint fragments, but I did not find a single arrow- 
head here. At the lower end of this bottom the water washed out the soil 
three to five feet deep in spots, covering from one-half to one acre. In these 
pits were found these vessels. I could see along the banks of these pits that 
the remains reached to a depth of only twelve to sixteen inches. The 
soil did not appear to have been washed off only where these pits were 
excavated ; nor was there any appearance of mounds, and I was told 
that there never had been any on this bottom. Last year the field was in 
corn; this year, wheat. Many of the specimens of earthen- ware appear 
freshly broken, as if done in plowing. I saw many very small frag- 
ments of bone, and I believe that there is now a large quantity of these 
earthen vessels buried in the ground, for these I have, must have been 
buried, and for a, x^urpose. The owners would certainly have thrown 
away only the broken ones. I had no time to dig, and only stopped my 
surface search at dark. Wednesday I traveled up the west bank of the 
river to Alfred Taylor's. Here the water had washed the soil off of 
some three to five acres, and there were great quantities of burned 
sandstones, fragments of flint, &c. Very few fragments of earthen- 
ware were to be seen here. Here Mr. Taylor said that the flood of 18G2, 
which was much greater than that of 1867, washed out many articles, 
bones, »S:c. ; one, a stone jar, some person carried away, as well as many 
other things ; but I could not hear of any of them being in the neigh- 
borhood at the present time. You will see by the large fragments of 
soapstone that they likely made vessels of that article. I hear of other 
places, one Watson's Island, where there were many articles washed out 
by the flood, and there are a great number of mounds along the Ten- 
nessee and its branches ; and if there are any questions in regard to the 
mound-builders yet unsolved, I think this country the place to solve 
them in. Did they bury their dead in the bottom or on the top of the 
momids ; or did they bury them in or near their villages ; and did they 
bury one of the jars or pots with them ; or was something hidden in the 
buried vessels ? I think that nothing but careful digging will solve 
these questions. 



384 ETHNOLOGY. 

SOME ACCOUNT OF THE SARCOniAGUS U THE NATIONAL MUSEUM NOW 
IN CHARGE OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

By Eeah-Admiral A. A. Harwood, U. S. N. 

Washington, December 17, 18G9. 

I recognize this sarcopliagus as one of two mouuments removed from 
elevated grouuds just in the rear of Beirut, iu Syria, and embarked on 
board the United States frigate Constitution, the flag-ship of the Med- 
iterranean squadron, of which I was at the time first lieutenant. I left 
the ship shortly after, and on my return to the United States learned 
from reliable sources that one of the sarcoi:>hagi referred to had been 
presented by Commodore Elliott to Carlisle College, in Pennsylvania, 
and that the other, after having been ofl'ered to General Andrew Jack- 
son to be buried in, and the old hero's declining the honor, was depos- 
ited in the Patent Office as the tomb of the Emperor Alexander Sev- 
erus. 

As you have probably observed, there is no inscription on this coffin, 
(to give it its English name;) consequently who the occupant was, or 
what his position, is a subject of pure conjecture. 

The somewhat profuse carving upon it might suggest that its former 
tenant was " well to do in the world," but the style is hardly chaste and 
simple enough to encourage the supposition that he or she was of im- 
perial or patrician rank. Nevertheless, for nearly twenty years this relic 
was exhibited in a public building of the metropolis, labeled as the last 
resting-place of the Emperor Alexander Severus, and nobody took the 
pains to question the accuracy or expose the absurdity of the legend. 

It was found near to the one referred to as having been presented to 
Carlisle College, which is inscribed with the name of "Julia Mamaea," 
and in virtue of that fact assumed to be the coffin of the Koman Empress 
of the same name, and the wish thus becoming "father to the thought," 
the contiguous receptacle was incontinently credited as having contained 
the mortal remains of her imperial son. 

Any respectable coffin in the same grave-yard would have had as good 
a claim to the honor of having inclosed an emx)eror; but after all, the 
first step to be taken should have been to ascertain who the Julia re- 
ferred to by the inscription was. She might have been a relative of the 
Empress, the mother of Alexander, both because the Empress was of a 
Syro-Phoenecian family, and because the stjde of the sarcophagus, incor- 
rectly represented as hers, is simple and elegant, and such as might 
have contained the bones of the kinswoman of an empress, but the 
inscription, which I copied carefully at the time, very conclusively 
establishes the fact that she was not the Empress Mamaea. It runs as 
follows : 

IVLIA. C. FIL. 

MAMAEA 

VIXIT. ANN. XXX 



ACCOUNT OF STONE IMAGE FEOM TENNESSEE. 385 

wliicli, if I have not lost all my Latin, means Julia Mamaea, daughter of 
Caia, lived thirty years. 

The Empress Julia Mamaea was not the daughter of Caia, but of Julia 
Soemias ; the legend on her tomb should therefore be I. FIL, and not 
C FIL. Then she was killed in Gaul with her son Alexander, in a 
mutiny of the soldiers, on the same day. 

According to the best authorities, he was just thirty years old when 
this event took place. None make him more than thirty-three. Assum- 
ing the least probable as the date, then, if the sarcophagus at Carlisle 
College be that of the mother of Alexander Severus, she must have given 
birth to her son when she was but three years old, which is, to say the 
least, unusual. 

In brief, that the sarcophagus now deposited at the Smithsonian In- 
stitution was taken from an ancient cemetery at Beirut, in Syria, and 
brought to the United States by Commoclore J. D. Elliott, in the frigate 
Constitution, and by him deposited in the Patent Office, and thence 
transferred to the Smithsonian Institution, would be a plain and truth- 
ful label to put on the relic. 



ACCOIIIT OF THE DISCOVERY OF A STOXE IMAGE IN TENNESSEE, NOW IN 
POSSESSION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

By Edw. M. Grant. 

Nashville, Tennessee, August 12, 1868. 
The history of its discovery is as follows : Near Strawberry Plains — 
a station of the East Tennessee and Virginia Eailroad, about sixteen 
miles east of Knoxville, Tennessee — there is a cave, one of the many 
hundreds of those natural curiosities that are to be found in the belt of 
country lying between the Ohio Eiver on the north and Northern Mis- 
sissippi, Alabama, and Georgia on the South, the Mississippi River on 
the West, and the Atlantic Ocean. This cave is in the direct line of 
march of De Soto's expedition to the Mississippi River ; many of his 
forts, and other traces, being still visible at the present day in that sec- 
tion of country. In the early spring of 1867 I had a force of men build- 
ing the large bridge over the Holston River at Strawberry Plains ; and 
during one of the various visits that I made to the work I saw this stone 
image, which hadjust been found in the cave referred to, about one-half 
mile from its mouth, I think, by a man named Douglas, who was wan- 
dering about in the cave one Sunday. It was attached to a stalactite 
or stalagmite at the back of the head, where a fresh portion of the rock 
can now be observed, evidently having been chiseled from one of the 
formations mentioned, an operation that required considerable skill and 
patience, as the red Tennessee marble, which it is cut from, is very hard, 

and its crystalline formation renders it very difidcult to carve. Douglas 
25 s 



386 ETHNOLOGY. 

■was away from home at the time, and consequently I could not obtain 
it from liim. My evident desire to possess it, however, attracted the atten- 
tion of my foreman, Mr. B. F. Price, and after Douglas returned Price 
purchased it and sent it to me by express as a present. 

It has been examined by several persons who have paid considerable 
attention to Indian antiquities in the South, and none of them has ever 
seen anything like it. Traditions here indicate that the tribes who 
inhabited this country were not idol- worshipers ; still, this may be 
erroneous. The cave in which this image was found has never been 
explored. I believe the inhabitants in the neighborhood are too super- 
stitious to make many explorations in such places, and the finding of 
this image did not tend to allay their apprehensions ; consequently there 
may be many other traces of the worshipers of this idol in the mazy 
passages of this subterranean labyrinth. Very few of the immense 
numbers of these caves have ever been thoroughly explored. Some of 
them have been traced many miles, and hundreds of passages, in every 
direction, discovered, but no termination was reached in any of them. I 
have been in one of these caves that I think surpasses the far-famed 
Mammoth Cave of Kentucky. 

I believe that the belt of country referred to in the beginning of my 
letter is richer in interesting features of geology, mineralogy, antiqui- 
ties, &c., than any other section of this continent. It is a region that 
never has been scientifically surveyed, and promises a rich field for the 
naturalist, geologist, and mineralogist, as well as the antiquarian. 



ON MIXED RACES IN LIBERIA. 

By Edw\ D. Blyden. 

[The writer of the communication from which the following extracts 
are given is a iiure negro, a native of St. Thomas, and now professor in 
Liberia College. The letter was addressed to a member of the board of 
directors of the American Colonization Society. — J. H.] 

Monrovia, Octoher G, 1869. 

My Dear Sir : I send inclosed a catalogue of all the students who 
have ever been in Liberia College. It will be seen that not only were 
they not natives, (aborigines,) but more than three-fourths the number 
have been largely mixed with Caucasian blood, and among these death 
and disease have made sad ravages. 

The great practical difficulty in the way of succeeding with our schools 
is the lack of suitable teachers. It is sad to relate that notwithstand- 
ing the thousands of dollars spent annually here by the different mis- 
sions for educational purposes, there are still but very few teachers to be 
found, especially among females, able to conduct properly an elementary 



MIXED RACES IN LIBERIA. 387 

school. The reason is that pains and money have been bestowed upon 
persons largely mixed with Caucasian blood, who, if males, have mostly 
died, or if females, have got married and assumed the cares of a family. 
It seems that the females of mixed blood, who are not obliged to put 
forth much exertion, and not subject to much exposure, last longer than 
the males. It appears, also, that mulattoes born and brought up in 
America, if they can pass through the acclimating process, stand the 
climate much better than those born here, but only by engaging in as 
little physical or mental labor as possible. Persons having an admix- 
ture of foreign blood are very frail, easily take cold, and seldom recover 
from a severe attack of illness. This will account in part for our want 
of enterprise and progress here. Such men have had the lead and man- 
agement of things, and, by the fearful exami)le of their disastrous inac- 
tivity, have been obstructive guides, discouraging all energy and go-a- 
Jteadativeness. 

Before the question of race came up here, mulattoes died just as they do 
now, but it was not noticed. Their mortality was put down to the gen- 
eral uuhealthiness of the climate. But since Professor Freeman, in his 
address of July, 18G8, called the attention of the people to the startling 
history of mixed breeds on this coast for the last two hundred years, 
the mixed classes have been watching with alarm the numerous indica- 
tions of the frail tenure of their existence. 

I have been for the last eighteen years connected with educational 
matters here, and feel safe in giving it as one reason why we are no 
better off in men to take charge of schools and churches, that the atten- 
tion of educators has been principally devoted to persons of feeble con- 
stitutions. 

The idea was that the presence of white blood imi^arted greater apti- 
tude for learning, and such persons were to be fitted for teachers. 
Black boys of hale and hearty physique were left to grow up unnoticed. 
Many of them have taken to sea-faring life, or gone to reside as perma- 
nent traders among the natives, who might now be active workers in 
our destitute fields. But with all the advantages afibrded to the inisce- 
gens, still the only professors for the college yet produced in Liberia 
are pure negroes ; and the only man with enterprise, energy, and talent 
enough to explore the interior, calculate distances, and construct a map 
is a pure negro ; and in the future, if we have any scientific men here, 
botanists, mineralogists, chemists, &c., they are sure to be pure negroes, 
and perhaps from the native tribes. 

But what has become of the half and three-fourths white proteges ? 
In the Alexandria high-school we had Armistead, Miller, Fleming, Mel- 
ville, Augustus, Fryzon, Samuel D'Lyon, Colston, Waring, James H. 
Roberts, all are dead. In Liberia College, we have had James H. 
Evans, J. J. Eoberts, jr., Beverly Russell, J. T. Chambers, John Heprj^, 
J. H. Harris, Edmund J. Payne, all dead. J. W. Leone is a raving 
maniac, and may die at any moment. In connection wath this, I would 



388 ETHNOLOGY. 

like you to read a letter which I wrote last year to Mr. William Tracy, 
of New Tork, dated September 11,1868. Facts, it is said, are God's 
arguments. I venture to affirm that if the names I have just cited had 
been negroes, three-fourths of them at least would have been living 
to-day J for in all that space of time I know of only one negro con- 
nected with either institution who has died, N. R. Eichardson, of sun- 
stroke. 

Now, who is to blame for these things 1 'So one in the past ; but if 
they are continued in the future, after God has presented his arguments, 
then those who continue them must be blamed. I do not charge guilt 
upon any one in the past, for I believe that these things were not done 
at the instigation of wrong passions, but under the delusion of a false 
theory. And you, gentlemen in America, proud of your race and blood, 
have thought, perhaps, that it must, as a matter of course, endure here, 
when strengthened by a negro basis, and bring to the negro an acces- 
sion of improving mental qualities. But your theory has not stood the 
test. So far as physical health and vigor are concerned, I would rather 
take my chance here as a pure Caucasian than as a mongrel. The ad- 
mixture of the Caucasian and negro is not favored by Providence in 
inter-tropical Africa, whatever may be the case in America. Let me 
beg you to look at this matter at once before wasting anymore thou- 
sands upon an impracticable scheme. God does not intend that the 
Egypt of America shall be reproduced in this African Canaan. If per- 
sons who are half and three-fourths Egyptian could live and thrive here, 
if the families whose disappearance and extinction I have noticed in my 
letter to Mr. Tracy could have lived and carried out their views, and 
gratified their tastes, we should long since have had a miniature Egypt 
here with its caste feelings and prejudices. 

The friends of the negro in America must learn to believe that the 
negro can exist and jjrosper without the aid of white blood in his veins. 

Now that slavery is abolished in America, and the blacks are being 
educated, it is to be hoped that all good men will discourage, as far as 
possible, the " miscegenation " doctrine. The negro race is injured 
by it far more than the white, for by prejudice the nondescript progeny is 
consigned to our side, even if they are three fourths or seven-eighths 
white, and thus involve us in an inextricable " muddle." This is cer- 
tainly a vexed question. But the higher plane to which the American 
people have attained by the recent revolution has given them loftier 
views and wider sympathies, and has furnished the means of education 
for the negro, which will su^iply the transition process from his low 
estate to a more intelligent and respectable position. Eespect for the 
uegro is becoming more and more, in the progress of events in America, 
the happy distinction of our age. The uegro is being taught to respect 
himself, and soon he will think it no honor to mingle his blood with 
that of the Caucasian, Indian, or Mongolian. 



SHELL-HEAPS. 389 

OX SHELl-IIEAPS. 

By Rev. James Fowler, of New Brunswick. 

I have lived for a number of years near tbe coast, but have never 
enjoyed the pleasure of discovering any of these heaps, and, as the 
result of my inquiries, have come to the conclusion that none such 
are to be found along the shores of this county or the neighboring 
county of Northumberland. Their absence may be accounted for by 
the fact that the whole coast is very low, and, being composed of the 
soft sandstone shale of the carboniferous formation, is constantly wear- 
ing away by the action of the waves. Within the last ten years the sea 
has encroached several rods upon the land. At Bay du Vin a church 
was erected about fifty years ago at such a distance from the shore that 
it was thought the sea could never reach it, (the bank or cliff being ten 
feet- high,) but the church toppled into the sea five or six years ago, 
and the burial-ground that lay around it will soon have disappeared. 
Ten years ago a single storm, in October, removed the coast-line from four 
to five rods inland in exposed situations, and changed the apj)earance 
of long stretches of the shore. If shell-heaps ever existed on this coast, 
they must long ago have been swept away by the constant encroach- 
ments of the sea. Again, there are portions of the mainland protected 
by outside beaches running parallel with the coast and separated from it 
by distances varying from a few rods to a mile. These are composed of 
loose sand, and are continually changing their positions, owing to the 
action of winds and tides, so that any heaps that may have accumu- 
lated on them must have been buried or swept away long ago. 

The coast of the Bay of Fundy is composed of harder rocks than our 
coast, and is consequently better fitted for preserving any deposits on 
the banks. I do not see, however, why heai^s should not be found in 
some of the more sheltered bays or recesses of the coast, but I have 
not yet been able to discover their existence. 

I have made inquiries about the stone implements of the aborigines, 
and have succeeded in securing two arrow-heads and an ax. Several 
have been found in this locality ; but as those who fiud them are ignorant 
of their value, they never think of preserving them, and they soon dis- 
appear, or are broken up by children. IShould these I have be of any 
service I can forward them. 

I regret that I am incapable of furnishing you with more positive 
information, but negative conclusions are sometimes valuable. 



330 ETHNOLOGY. 



OX THE USES OF THE BEAUT AJfD MARROW OF AXIMAIS AMOXG THE 
INBIAXS OF NORTH AMERICA. 

By Titlvn E. Peale, 

United States Patent Office. 

The uses of the brain aud marrow of animals among savage peoi)le 
having" become of interest in connection with the ethnological researches 
wliich are being prosecuted with so much ardor in this and other coun- 
tries, a brief exposition of the facts relative to the subject, observed by 
myself, and collected from the writings of others, may not be unaccept- 
able for the Smithsonian report. It may not, perhaps, be improper to 
state, as introductory to the subject of this communication, that I 
am, with one exception, (that of General Swift,) the only survivor of 
the celebrated expedition of ]\Iajor Long to the Eocky Mountains. We 
owe this delay of tlie inevitable summons of the grim messenger princi- 
pally to the fact that we were the youngest of a party numbering twenty- 
six. I was appointed as assistant naturalist and draughtsman of the 
expedition, and, among other duties, was directed by the letter of my 
instructions to give attention to the method employed by the natives in 
the preparation of the skins of animals killed for food or for their furs. 

The material used for the preservation of the skins is principally the 
brains of the animal from which they were taken. While the skins are 
fresh, or in their green state, they are stretched on the ground, and 
scraped with an instrument of bone or stone, resembling an adze j the 
adhering portions of flesh are removed, and the surface is then plas- 
tered over with the brains, mixed in some cases with the liver, and on 
this is poured, from time to time, warm water in which the meat has 
been boiled. The whole is then suffered to dry, after which the skin is 
again subjected to the action of the brain and hot water, further 
stretched, and, while still wet, scraped and rubbed with stones until per- 
fectly dry. It is farther softened by rubbing and passing it backward 
and forward over a twisted sinew, stretched horizontally. The brain 
of an animal is sufficient to dress its skin ; but, in some cases, a less 
quantity is sufficient for the purpose. I have myself used this process 
in the preparation of skins, but have found animal brains inferior, as a 
curing material, to a mixture of saltpeter and alum. The Indian, how- 
ever, has no choice, and makes use of such materials as he can procure, 
and which, probably from accidental discovery and subsequent experi- 
ence, he has found to produce the desired effect. 

The marrow of bones of animals has generally been esteemed as a lux- 
ury, and among the Indians of this continent is held in high estimation, 
particularlj- that of the bones of the buffalo, the elk, the moose, and the 
deer. The round bones of these animals are roasted on the coals or be- 
fore the fire, then split with a stone hatchet, and in some cases with a 
wedge driven in between the condyles when the bone has these ter- 



INDIAN USE OF BEAIN AND MAEROW. 391 

minations. The marrow is tlien scooped out with a piece of wood cut 
into the form of a spoon, and eaten on the instant by the members of the 
party, seated around the camp fire. A feast of this kind can only be 
fully enjoyed after a successful hunt. When the marrow is collected in 
quantity for storing* during the hunting season, which occurs usually 
twice a year, the bones of the larger animals are broken into small frag- 
ments and boiled in water until all the marrow which they contain and 
the grease which adheres to them are separated, and rise to the surface, 
when they are skimmed off and packed in bladders, or in the muscular 
coat of the stomach and in the large intestines, which have been pre- 
viously x)repared for this use. Not only is the marrow of the large 
bones of the limbs preserved in this manner, but also that of the verte- 
bral column. The bones of this are comminuted by pounding them with 
a stone hammer, similar to those which are plowed up in the Eastern 
States. 



BEPORT OF X'S EXPLOKATION OF ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, 

KENTUCKY, 

Made hy the request and at the exjyense of the Smithsonian Institution. 



By Sidney- S. Lyon. 



Jeffersonville, Indiana, July 29, 1808. 

I have made to the Institution the following shipments : First, from 
Shawneetown, one box containing casts of all that was left of the 
famous " Foot-print Eock," the last of this rude carving having been 
destroyed or reuioved since my examination in 1858. Second, four bar- 
rels of specimens from the Lindsay mounds, or that from which was 
taken the parcels sent by myself several years since to the Institution. 
These articles were taken from the laud belonging to Leonard Eober- 
son, but the property has since changed ownership. Third, three bar- 
rels and three boxes ; the barrels contain articles from mounds 37 and 
38, shown on diagram No. 6 ; box ISTo. 2 contains articles from the Lind- 
say mound, and a few from other places; box No. 3, articles from 
McCoughely's mound, in the rear of Raleigh, Kentucky; box No. 4, 
some of the best articles from mounds 37 and 38. 

The results of this exploration have been of less interest than I ex- 
pected. I encountered unforeseen difficulties. The greatest trouble was 
to get and retain good laborers, and the utter impossibility of boarding 
them near the field of operations. During the last twenty-two days the 
men had to walk four miles to and from their work, with the thermometer 
at 95°. An expedition, to operate most efficiently, should be provided 
with tents and encamp near the work. The company should be organ- 
ized before starting and not depend on assistance which may be pro- 
cured in the country. There is a great field for investigation on both 
sides of the Ohio, near the mouth of the Wabash Eiver. The people of 
the country have little or no exact information as to the number or loca- 
tion of the mounds. When a field is cleared inclosing a mound, and 
bones are ploughed up, the fact becomes known, but the existence of 
mounds in the woods or on the ridges is almost unknown; and as they 
are undoubtedly very numerous an explorer would find work enough 
to do. 

1 send you diagrams of some of the groups I have examined, with an 
account of their character, and of the facts obtained during the forty- 
two days of our exploration. I hope the results of my labors may prove 
satisfactory to the Institution, although they are not all I could have 
wished. 

The diagrams of the groups of mounds are not deduced from exact 
surveys as to course or distance, the bearings having been taken by a 
common x)ocket-comi)ass and the distance measured by stepping. 



ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 



39^ 







Scale 300 feet to the inclu 

100 » 




This group consists of three 
sub-groups. Tiie one most 
eastwardly is coruj)osed of 
two mounds. ]^o. 1 is 80 feet 
in diameter and 10 feet Ligh; 
No. 2 is 40 feet in diameter 
and 4 feet high. The middle 
sub-group consists of four 
mounds 171 feet* distantfrom 
Nos. 1 and 2; Nos. 4, 5, 
and 6 are severally 45, 45, and 40 feet distant from JSTo. 3, which is GO 
feet diameter and 8 feet high ; Nos. 4, 5, and 6 are 33 feet diameter -, 
Nos. 4 and 5 are 3 feet high ; ]^o. G is 5^- feet high. 

The most westwardly sub-group consists of seven mounds. iSTo. 7 is 
a large one, about 70 feet diameter and 10 feet high ; ISTos. 10 and 11 are 
4 feet high; Nos. 8, 9, 12, and 13 are 3 feet high; Xos. 8, 9, and 10 are 
60 feet from No. 7 ; Nos. 11, 12, and 13 are from 33 to 35 feet from the 
bases of Nos. 8, 9, and 10 severally. 

This remarkable group of mounds is situated in Union County, Ken- 
tucky, about two miles from the ferry-landing opposite Shawneetown, 
and about half a mile south of the "foot-print rocks." Mounds Nos. 1, 
3, 6, and 7 were opened near the center many years since by Dr. Gieger. 
I could not learn if anything had been taken from them. The appear- 
ance of disturbance left by the excavation of Dr. Gieger indicates that 
the openings made by him were not sufficient to develop the full con- 
tents of the mounds. 

I opened mounds Nos. 2 and 4 by digging a ditch about 5 feet wide 
from the margin of the mounds to the middle of each, expanding the 
opening at the center to a circle of 8 feet. The ditch and center of the 
mounds were excavated to the original soil ; nothing was found in either. 
The mounds 2 and 4 were begun on the soil and composed of a loose 
sandj^ loam, probably obtained in the neighborhood. 
Nos. 1, 3, and 7 are large mounds, the others are low and flat and have 



the appearance 
mounds. 



of the mounds which I consider as common burial 



DiagranL^\\l|/M% 

No. 2 ^p>«%^^-| 



,J^///;/A' 



is 



'%^^ 



All the mounds of Diagram No. 1 are on 
a flat, low ridge, about 40 feet above high- 
water of the Ohio Eiver. 

This group of four mounds (Diagram No. 2) 
was visited with the intention of excavating 
No. 3, but it was not possible to get men to 
walk so far. My attention was called to this 
group of mounds by Mr. Eichardson, of Un- 
iontown, who had knowledge of the opening 
of mound No. 3 for the purpose of interring a 



* Tlie measurements above are from base to base of the mounds and not from center 
to. center. 



394 ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 

ne^ro man, who desired to be buried there. In digging tlie grave, 
skeletons were discovered and also three or four earthen vessels. 
These mounds are on the lands of Mr. Burbank, about IJ miles west 
of the group ou Diagram No. 1. No examination was made of the 
country lying immediately between these groups. 

The Lindsay mound. — This is an isolated mound, there being no other 
nearer than half a mile. It is situated on the low hills which form the 
margin of the flat lands on Buffalo Creek, a tributary of Cypress Creek, 
of the Ohio, about four miles in the rear of Ealeigh, Union County, 
Kentucky. It terminates a low point of a low ridge and is about 33 feet 
in diameter. It was examined in 1854 and many skeletons discovered, 
with specimens of pottery 5 with three skulls. The latter were forwarded 
to the Smithsonian Institution at that time. This examination having 
revealed the character of the mound, I determined to explore it thor- 
oughly. The work was begun on the west side (the lowest) and the 
whole examined by trenches from 4 to G feet deep. 

Ou the west side bodies were found covered with six feet of earth, 
forming there about five separate layers. Tbe bones of the lowest layer 
were so tender that they could not be removed, and deeper digging 
was not made. It is therefore not known whether the lowest bodies 
in this mound were reached. It would appear that the general plan of 
burial was to scrape the surface free from all vegetable matter, and de- 
posit the body on its back, with the head turned to the left side. The 
bodies at the bottom of the heap, so far as could be ascertained by the 
examination, were buried without weapons, tools, or burial urns, (pots.) 
No traces of vegetable matter could be found in the fine siliceous earth 
with which these deeply-buried bodies were covered. To the depth of 
three feet from the surface, some of the bodies had with them burial 
urns. They were found near the bodies of infants and young persons, and 
it was with difficulty a single fragment of the bones could be pro- 
cured by caving in the face of the digging. The bones of old and 
adult persons were well preserved in the siliceous loam, but very imper- 
fectly in clay. Three or four tiers of skeletons, of later burials, were 
covered with clay. It is probable that as many as three hundred 
• bodies, infant and adult, were buried in this mound. All the flints 
and other works of art found entire were packed in the four barrels and 
box No. 2 sent. The pressure of the roots of the trees growing upon 
and around the mound had broken many of the burial urns. Sev- 
eral of these, of unusual form, were sent without any attempt at 
restoration. No bodies were buried exactly in or near the center of the 
elevation, but they appear to have been arranged in a circle, head in- 
ward for the first layer, and extended toward the margin by an addi- 
tional circle or more of bodies. Adults and children were buried together, 
the latter lying between the former. Toward the margin of this mound 
on the east side, there was some irregularity in the burials. Three bodies 
were found head outward, three or four lying nearly at right angles 



ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 395 

to the radii of the circle. No urns were found with any of these 
irregular bodies. Some of them lay in clay were too tender for re- 
moval. 

A poplar tree Y^as felled ten years ago at the margin of this mound, 
of which the rings, counted at the time, indicated an age of two hun- 
dred and forty -nine years. A root of this tree, over one foot in diam- 
eter, ran nearly across the mound. At one point where this root 
was cut away were found four tiers of bodies under and two above it. 
Two or three excavations had been made long since into this mound, 
through one of which the large root passed, showing a greater antiquity 
than that of the tree. The colored earth showed, in one of these excava- 
tions in section, an inverted cone with irregular outline four and ahalf feet 
at the surface and one foot wide at the depth of five and a half feet. 
This hole or evidence of an excavation extended down to the earth of uni- 
form color. At the bottom were found the skull of a female elk, two 
odd jaws of bears, and a small bundle of deer-bone awls. Three other 
of these ancient pits contained bodies. The direction of the heads 
was irregular," not conforming to the common method of burials. 
With one body tlint weapons were found; this was at a depth of 
five and a half feet. The parcel of flints in box 2, the deer-horn tips, 
and the fragment of elk-horn were found with this body. The principal 
■works of art obtained were the specimens of pottery. 

On the northeast side of the mound the original soil was reached. On 
the west side it was not met vv^ith at a depth of 6^ feet. The entire mound 
was dug away except at the margin, and where large trees interfered 
with the work on the northwest side. The first burials either were 
made by those who had no works of art, or no superstition or usage 
requiring such articles to be buried with their dead. Ko bark or vege- 
able substance was used to cover and protect the bodies, or else they 
have entirely disappeared. 

The character of the earth forming the whole mound, except at the 
northeast side, is such that it may be traced to a considerable excavation, 
distant one hundred and fifty yards toward the southwest. The mound 
was evidently formed by burials made on a cleanly- scraped surface, on 
which the body was laid, and then covered with the yellow sandy loam 
from the pit just alluded to. 

The burials to the depth of three feet from the surface appear to have 
been made in the same form and manner as those below, and the addi- 
tion of the burial vases distinctly marks either a change of art or super- 
stition. The irregular burials are those made by excavation in the 
mound, and filling the hole over the bodies. A critical examination of 
these holes satisfied me that no sharp tool was used in making them. 
Sticks and the hands appear to have been the implements employed. 

In the Lindsay mound are three kinds of burial : those without works 
of art ; those with works of art bodies laid on the surface ; and those 
of the deep excavations, which contain badly preserved bones, and 



ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 



cut tlirougli the ancient surfoce. The graves dug were filled with 
mixed and discolored earth. Such a mound as the Lindsay mound'l 
term a common burial-place, or a burial-place of the common i^eople. 




Cough try 's la ncT ! 

Cornfielcl f 

I 



There are other mounds somcNvhat difieriug from the preceding and 
evidently for a different use. Of these, No. 1, Diagram Ko. 3, is an ex- 
ample. This mound is about 125 feet in diameter, and from 9 to 10 feet 
high. It was examined by digging a ditch 45 feet long, 6 feet wide, and 
8 feet deep ; beginning about 10 feet from the southeast side, curving a 
little toward the north to avoid a large tree, and at the middle bearing 
under in various directions to obtain any articles that might have 
been buried near the center of the structure. Here I found nothing. I 
learned after my work was done that many years ago this mound had 
been examined and some articles obtained at a center opening. 
Although I added nothing to the collection, I ascertained that this 
mound was of a different construction, and evidently for a very different 
purpose from that of the burial mounds. 

The excavation exhibits a central nucleus of sand, about two feet high 
and twenty feet in diameter. This was built upon, preserviugthe rounded 
form, the layers of earth thicker in the center, and gradually becoming 
thinner toward the margin, until the work was completed. The earth 
over the sandy center appears to have been deposited iu loads of about 
half a bushel each of the soil and subsoil of the surrounding fields, dis- 
tinctly marked in sections into mottled layers ; such a structure as 
would be made if the soil and subsoil were excavated from 15 to 18 
inches deep around the mound. iN^ear the margin of the mound was 
found a pit about three feet in diameter, extending into the subsoil 
about two feet, filled with alternate layers of earth and ashes. The ap- 



ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 397 

pearaDce v>as sucli as would be presented if a pit were dug of tlie di- 
lueiisions stated, a considerable amount of wood burned iu it, after a long 
interval of time (leaves and earth having accumulated half a foot thick) 
a large fire again made and long continued, producing an inch thick- 
ness of ashes, the fire suiiered to burn out and no coals left, thus adding 
successive layers of ashes and earth until the hole was full. The fires 
must have been repeated seven or eight times, lining the entire hole 
with ashes, and gradually filling the excavation. 

No. 8, Diagram 3, was next examined. This is a low mound, 45 feet 
in diameter, formed of sandy loam, very uniform in quality and color. 
Eounded pebbles of the same character and general appearance as those 
on the shore of the Ohio, one and a quarter mile distant, were found 
buried in groups of two, three, five, and seven. Attracted by this group- 
ing of the i)ebbles a large amount of labor was bestowed on this mound. 
It had evidently not been made for a burial-place. 

No. 3 appearing of the right form, and not being on cultivated land 
liable to be injured by the excavated materials, was more than half dug 
over by my party to a depth of three feet. It yielded broken iJottery, 
rough fragments of flint, burnt surfaces from one to three feet deep, 
but nothing worth preserving. 

By permission of the proprietor, and promised payment for the corn 
destroyed, I opened mound No. 4. This, like the Lindsay mound, proved 
to be a common burial-place. Pottery and broken pots strewed the 
ground. The top of the mound had been reduced by cultivation. Some 
of the bodies had been half cut away by the plow, and most of the bur- 
ial vases broken. I dug this mound entirely over. The bones found 
were very tender. With one skeleton was a parcel of paint, a large 
double-pointed flint, and a small one; an arrow-head, a small piece of 
specular (?) iron ore from Missouri or Arkansas, and some small flints. 
The broken pot was a large one, placed near the shoulder on the left 
arm. Only a few of the burial urns escaped the plow, roots, frost, and 
the spades of my men. I sent in the box (marked McCoughtry mound 
on some of the j)arcels) every thing supposed to be of interest. My 
own experience teaches me that clay or tough, loamy soil is not as 
good a material to preserve the bones and pottery as the fine siliceous 
earth. (Loess of Dr. D. D. Owen. See Kentucky Eeports.) 

I next began operations on the first range of low hills immedi- 
ately in the rear of Uniontown, nearly south of the mouth of Highland 
Creek, Diagram No 4. This group consists of seven mounds, three large 
and four small ones. Southeast lies a group of three, and south of these 
another group of three ; Nos. 14 and 15 are about fifty yards apart, 
40 feet diameter, 8 to 10 feet high, about the size of Nos. 3, 4, and 5. 
Nos. 1, 2, C, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 are low mounds, varying in size 
from 25 feet to GO feet diameter, and from 3 to 4 feet in height. Near 
the mouth of Highland Creek is a Kitchen mound. There are a few In- 
dian burials along the line of the river bank. These are covered with 



398 



ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 



clay, evidently subjected to the action of fire. Mound Xo. 1 was ex- 
amined by a ditch from east to west, 4 feet deep, 30 feet long. This 
ditch, cut out the center of the mound and reached the subsoil. Some 




small fragments of pottery and a few irregular chips of liiut, and the 
character of the material forming the structure, were the only evidences 
of its artificial nature. 

Mound No, 5, one of the three large ones of this group, we dug away 
about one-third. On the southeast side several skeletons were found, 
at a depth of about 3J feet ; two or three skulls without bodies, and 
some parcels of bones, evidently dismembered before burial. All these 
interments appear to have been secondary. This mound is composed 
of materials differing in character, and resembles mound No. 1, (Dia- 
gram No. 3.) 

Mounds Nos. 0, 10, and 11, on examination were fouud to be of clay, 
and therefore, as already explained, a detailed investigation was not made. 
Mound 14 had been dug into for an ice-house vault. Mr. J. W. Hagar, 
son of the party who built the ice-house, and who aided in the excava- 
tion, made the following statement in reference to this mound: 

"At a depth of 6i feet, near the center, we found the body of a man, 
buried in a sitting position. Near his head, on the west side, was found 
a varietj' of articles — a pointed flint-arrow or spear-head, from 10 to 12 
inches long, 3^ to 4 inches wide, beautifully made; it was not a double- 
pointed flint, but had a groove for fastening; three circular stones, half 
an inch thick, an inch and a half in diameter, concave on both sides, a 



ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 



399 



liole tbroiigli tlie center, the margin grooved like a pulley, (we called 
these pulley stones,) with about five small i)erforations from the center 
of the margin of the j)ulley, in the direction of radii, to the opening in 
the center ; an article five inches long made of copper nearly in the 
form of an awl, the large end or handle very much oxidized, (r)robably 
had a wooden handle;) a flat stone with holes; an earthen pot broken, 
contents about one gallon ; a thin piece of copper one-sixteenth of an 
inch thick, irregularly round, covered with some woven fabric not un- 
like fine linen. The diameter of the disk of copper was about three 
inches." 

In box No. 2 is a copper disk, which was found in a low mound with two 
other pieces similar in form and size, by Mr. McKenny, who states that 
the three disks appeared to be the ends and middle of a '' spool," which 
when found had on it what appeared to be the remains of a fine twine 




or coarse thread. The mound from which this copper article was taken 
was a low one, 10 feet iu diameter. Being in a field, it was soon plowed 



400 ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 

down to its foundation, Tvliich was a circnlar j)avement of stones. These 
being in the way, they were dug out and removed. On the north side 
of the i)avement was found a heap of ashes, and lying across the pave- 
ment, nearly in the center of it, the bones of an adult. No other work 
of art than the disks was found. The earth removed from the center 
was about 18 inches deep. 

The mound.s near Uniontown not proving of sufficient interest for my 
present purpose, I proceeded to examine a locality near the mouth of 
Lost Creek, opposite Wabash Island, Union County, Kentucky. Dia- 
gram No. 5 i)resents a rough sketch of this remarkable collection of 
groups of mounds. When I first examined this series of mounds I 
noted them roughly on a sketch. As my knowledge of their number 
increased, and my book being too small to map them on a scale, I 
proceeded to measure the distances between the several mounds, and 
to estimate their height. I began on the 8th mound and made the fol- 
lowing measurements and estimates, from center to center of mounds : 

Coj)y of notes. 

8. Mound in field, ^ feet high, 90 feet diameter ; distance between 8 and 10, 354 feet ; 
distance from 10 to 12, 54 feet. 

12. Diameter 33 feet. 

In tbo following notes the distances given is that between two mounds, as for 
example between 10 and 13 : 

10 and 13, distance, 54 feet ; 10 is 3 feet high. 

12 and 13, distance, 84 feet ; height of 12 and 13, 4 feet ; 13 is 40 feet diameter. 

13 and 15, distance, 120 feet. 

,. 13 and 16, distance, 159 feet ; 15, 42 feet diameter ; 16 is 54 feet diameter. 

16 and 17, distance, 51 feet ; diameter of 17, 36 feet. 

17 and 18, distance, 81 feet ; diameter of 18, 33 feet. 

18 and 19, distance, 165 feet. 

13 and 14, distance, 80 feet ; diameter of 14, 40 feet ; 18 is 3 feet high. 

14 and 20, distance, 54 feet ; diameter of 20 is 74 feet ; height of 20, 7 feet. 
20 and 21, distance, 71 feet ; diameter of 21, 33 feet ; 3 feet high. 

14 and 22, distance, 75 feet ; diameter of 22, 48 feet ; 3 feet high. 

22 and 23, distance, 114 feet ; diameter of 23, 72 feet ; 3 feet high. 

23 and 24, distance, 69 feet ; diameter of 24, 66 feet ; 8 feet high. 

24 and 25, distance, 75 feet. 

25 and 26, distance, 75 feet ; mounds 25, 26, and 27 are 3 feet high ; diameter of 
mound 26, 36 feet. 

26 and 27, distance, 100 feet ; diameter of 27 and 28, 40 feet. 

28 and 29, distance, 50 feet ; diameter 33 feet ; height, 3 feet. 

29 and 30, distance, 63 feet ; diameter 33 feet ; height, 3 feet. 

30 and 31, distance, 75 feet ; diameter 33 feet ; height, 3 feet. 

31 and 32, distance, 45 feet ; diameter 20 feet ; height, 2 feet. 

32 and 33, distance, 75 feet ; diameter 33 feet ; height, 5 feet. 

33 and 34, distance, 100 feet ; diameter 33 feet ; height, 5 feet. 
35 from 8, distance, 800 feet; diameter 80 feet; height, 6 feet. 

Nos. 2, 3, 4, r», 6, 7, &c., are quite close together on the back of a 
sharp, narrow ridge. No. 4 is an oblong, rectangular mound, about 30 
feet long, 12 feet wide on top, 8 to 10 feet high. Mounds 5, 6, and 
7 have been used for burial places within the last few months. Mounds 



ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KKN'I'UCKY. 



401 



Di 



iau-ramNo e'""""* ll!W\#^" f >"'"'"" 



"^JmjlJ 



'%^m. 



22, 23, and 24 were partially examined. They did not prove to be com- 
inoD binial-places, and were abandoned foiUhe present. These mounds 
are formed of sand, different from that found in the hills near by and 
that used for the covering of bodies in the common burial-idaces. The 
material used appears to have been taken from the drifts of fine sand 
washed by the Ohio River in to the overflowed land. 

The operations were then carried on in mounds 37, 38, and 40. I was 
attracted to mound 37 by stones standino- near the center of it. This 
is the only mound examined by me in which stones were used to form 
any portion. No. 37 is an oblong or pear-shaped mound, the largest 
part being G5 feet diameter ; the neck, 42 feet long. The greatest length 
107 feet 5 greatest v/idth, (35 feet. The scale of Diagram No. 5 is too 
small to exhibit the form or arrangement of the group to which 37 be- 
longs. It will be better seen on Diagram No. G. 

Mound No. 37 (Diagram 
No. G) was opened on the 
northwest side, at a point 
which appeared to be the 
margin of the artificial part 
of the hill. The discolora- 
tion from the leaves and de- 
composed vegetable matter 
penetrated the earth about 
three feet deep. At the depth 
of tvro feet bodies were en- 
countered. The earth was 
well thrown back and an open- 
ing 14 feet long and 5 feet 
deep was made, giving a face on the side of the ditch toward the mound 
14 feet long by 5 feet deep. The bottom of the ditch appeared to be the 
subsoil of the country, a stiff clay. By digging into this clay it was 
found to be very stiff, and full of a wlutish mold not unlike that found 
within the skulls, and at the bottom of some of the burial urns or pots. 
During the progress of the work this clay was found to cover all the cir- 
cular part of the mound removed. (See Diagram No. C, mound 37.) In 
contact with the clay 5i feet deep the bones were very tender. When 
near the center of the mound I had an opening made into the supposed 
subsoil, and found it to be a coat of stiff" moldy clay covering bodies 
buried one above another to the depth of 12^ feet. At the base of the 
clay, G feet deep, was found an irregular pavement of limestone, evidently 
obtained from an outcrop of the "Carthage limestone" occurring half 
a mile to the north. The same limestone forms the bed of the Ohio River 
between the Kentucky shore and the head of Wabash Island, one mile 
distant. 

The margin of the mound at G feet below the summit and on a line 
with the pavement was composed principally of small pieces of the same 
2GS 




'1*11./. 



l^y Ma 37 



402 ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 

rock. Tlie pieces composing tlie pavement varied in size from 20 to 150 
pounds weight. Many of the bodies found at the base of the clay ap- 
peared to have been covered by sUxbs of the stone forming the pavement 
set lip shinting toward the body with the ends of opposite stones rest- 
ing against each other, thus roofing the body in. 

The bodies beneath the chiy did not appear to have been buried in the 
order generally observed in the mounds heretofore examined. Beneath 
the clay bed, to the depth of G feet, the bodies were evidently buried by 
covering, after having been laid upon a cleaned surface, with the sandy 
earth obtained from some of the banks, marked «, J), c. (Diagram iSTo. G.) 

A large excavation was made below the clay and pavement and many 
bodies removed ; the bones were quite tender. No works of art were 
found. The hole was filled up and the work carried across the mound 
to the depth of the mouldy clay. 

I was particularly interested in the fact that in this mound there was 
an absence of all works of art in the deep burials, and less regularity 
and system in the manner of arranging the bodies than that observed 
in the later burials or the urn-burying tribes. As in the Lindsay mound 
the deeper-placed bodies did not invariably lie on the left side, and the 
head was sometimes on one side, sometimes on the other, sometimes 
thrown forward or backward. The mouth was frequently open, retain- 
ing a horrible expression. No fragment of pottery or flint was found 
under the clay layer in mound 37. Two or three of the skulls of the 
deep burials will be found in barrel No. 5 shipped from Uniontown, 
Kentucky. 

The burials above the clay layer of this mound conform generally to 
the plan of those of the Lindsay mound : heads inward, lying on the 
left side, &c. There do not appear to have been so many pots buried 
as there were bodies. The use of the burial urns seems to have been 
more frequent at the burials in the Lindsay and McCoughtery mounds 
than in this one. Some of the last bodies placed in this mound with an 
urn were very slightly covered. Two bodies which were found with 
urns were covered from the head to the hips with rough stone similar 
in arrangement to those bodies alluded to which were found under the 
clay layer of this mound. A few vases were found entire, but the greater 
number were broken. Some appeared to have been broken before they 
were placed with the dead body about to be covered. 

With some of the bodies, about 3 feet below the surface, there 
occurred a parcel of small, long, round bones. In one of these par- 
cels was a needle made of bone and an ornament ma<le of the shell 
of an unio, also a pair of unio shell drops. The hurry and discomfort 
of the work forbid a very careful examination of the articles, or an 
attempt (o sketch any of them. A single double-pointed flint was the 
only article of stone found in the mound, and this not in any apparent 
connection with a body. It appeared to have been dropped upon 



ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 403 

tbe top of tbe mound, and was found not deeper than six inches below 
the surface. In working southwardly, toward tbe white-oak, in mound 
37, the end of a discolored line of earth, 3 feet wide, was encountered. 
This was carefully followed 5 feet deep to a skeleton, tbe bead lying 
toward tbe north, feet south. This was evidently au interment made 
in an excavated pit. Extreme caution was used in removing this body. 
Tbe bead was found entire. JSTear tbe bead, in the position of the ears, 
were found tbe two copper bells packed in box Xo. 3. 

In making the original excavation for tbe reception of this body, at 
least tliree bodies, or parts of bodies, bad been removed, and this body 
placed as deep as the third or fourth tier of layers, the bead resting on 
the layer of moldy clay, so frequently referred to. There were three 
or four other burials made by excavating in this mound, but as nothing 
worthy of note was found with them they require no special description. 
The bones removed by digging the graves referred to aj)pear to have 
been (carelessly thrown into the grave over the newly buried body, but 
never in immediate contact with it. 

A considerable excavation was made into the elongated neck of this 
mound. Urn burials extended down about 5 feet, regularly disposed. 
The digging was carried 9 feet in depth, and great irregularity was ob- 
served. At tbe depth of 5^- feet the body of a youth was found. Tbe 
skull and long bones were sent in barrel 6. This body may be known 
by tbe base of a deer's horn packed v»'itb the skull. The whole horn 
was buried just above the face, tbe head slightly elevated, directed 
outward, and toward the falling land or slope. Parcels of bones dis- 
connected were found buried in this part of tbe mound, in excavations 
which cut through former burials ; beads disconnected from bodies, loose 
bones, &c. With one of tbe regular covered burials, about 3 feet deep, 
were found some ornaments made of panther's (?) teeth. Two or three 
feet distant from this body was found a parcel, in discolored earth, con- 
taining parts of a jaw with feline teeth and some pieces of vertebra of an 
unknown animal. Tbe number of relics obtained was very small, wdien 
the amount of work done in the examination is considered. A considera- 
ble number of long bones were preserved and packed in barrel No. 5, 
also one entire vertebral column. The material among these bodies is 
the same as that in the Lindsay mound, but generally tbe bones are not 
as well preserved. 

There are several mounds in this group of grander proportions than 
No. 37, which would doubtless prove of great interest if thoroughly ex- 
amined — 300 or 400 cubic yards carefully removed from some of these 
mounds v.oubl probably yield numy valuable and interesting results. 

In the group of mounds 2, 3, 4, a, C, and 7, (Diagram o,) the mounds 
o and G are tbe site of a lecent burial-place. 

Mound No. 30 (Diagram No. 0) was examined by a ditch 5 i'eet wide 
and 18 feet long, extending from the south side nortbwardlv bevond 



404 ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 

the center. It proved to have been a kitchen, being composed iirin- 
cipally of ashes of imio shells, broken pottery, bones of animals, 
&c. A small ax or skin-dressing chisel was found at the surface. The 
fragments of pottery appeared to be parts of vessels, differing iu form 
from those found in the mounds. Tlie vessels were larger, thicker, and 
generail}' parts of shallow dishes. The fragments of one vessel, resem- 
bling these, was found in mound 38, and one in the neck of 37. These 
fragments are among the articles from these mounds sent to the Smith- 
sonian. 

Mound 38 (Diagram No. G) was thoroughly examined. It was a low 
mound, about 4 feet high and 45 feet in diameter. Figure 38 (a) (Dia- 
gram 0) shows the amount of surface uncovered in this mound. 

It appeared to have been completely covered by two layers of the 
bodies of the vase-burying peoi)le. On the southeast side vrere found 
three of the vstone burial-places, of a later period tlian the vase burials, 
some of the vases and bodies with which they were buried having been 
: emoved to give place for these later structures. A trench from 4 to 
<j feet wide had been worked over through the center of the mound, 
from the stone boxes toward the northwest, disturbing the bodies. 

Sometime this later digging cut a previously buried body in twain, 
leaving the head and feet in place, the more recent burial having been 
made in a line nearly at right angles with the body partially removed. 
This disturbance rendered the work very difficult. While tracing one 
body longitudinally another was encountered lying at right angles, 
either above, below, or cutting through the body being* traced. 

In the undisturbed part of mound 38 the bodies observed the arrange- 
ment referred to at the Lindsay mound. 

It was in the disturbed part of mound ^^To. 38 that the two pipes were 
found. I was careful that the decomposed portions of the stone on one 
of the pipes should be lueserved, for it may i)ossibly give some hint as 
to the length of time these articles have been buried. A small conical- 
sliapcd article was found with the body, and also the black stone with 
holes through it. 1 have seen this kind of an instrument used bj^ the 
Pah-Utes, of Southeasterii Nevada, for giving uniform size to their 
bow-strings. 

A few burial urns with seven cars were found in No. 38. I do not rec- 
ollect that any of this form vrere found iu nuy other mound. The bones 
in mound 38 were not so firm as those found in other mounds. Many 
bodies were disinterred of which bones were sufficiently firm to pack up. 
Barrel No. G contains the most perfect skulls from mound 38. A con- 
siderable number of long bones from this mound will be found in barrel 
No. 7. I omitted to mention an article found iu mound 37, circular iu 
form, a})parently formed of bone. 

With the exception of the copper bells all the articles iound and for- 
warded to the Institution are of the rudest form and evidently the pro- 
duct of a isrimitive people. The fact of the bells having been found in 



ANCIENT MOUNDS IN UNION COUNTY, KENTUCKY. 405 

a dug burial-place indicates a later burial and a race of ditlerent habits. 
I have no hypothesis as to the time these mounds were made. They 
do not appear to have been constructed by a warlike race. Only two 
bodies, of about 1,000, tliat I have encountered seem to have been 
buried with anything like arms. 

To one who has made a study of the mound-builders, the groups of 
mounds (Diagram o) would otter great inducements for investigation. 

I have observed some remarkable facts in reference to the mounds, 
but they are too few in number and too disconnected to form a good 
foundation for a true theory of the life and condition of the mound- 
builders of this district. A careful examination of the cranica by a 
competent person will perhaps throw some light on the intellectual con- 
dition of this people. 

This report is hastily written from my notes made in the field. It may 
serve, liowever, as part of the basis of a regular work, to be prepared 
by some properly qualified person who jnay have the results of this inves- 
tigation before him. In my examination of the mounds I was compelled 
to pack away the articles collected as fast as they came to hand, the sun 
affecting the bones injuriously. 

To any one who may continue this work I would recommend the 
months of September and October, with tents, and all such con- 
veniences as will enable the party to make full notes. Let the laborers 
be hired for the trip, and informed as to what they are to do and 
how they are to do it. Many crania and burial-vases in good con- 
dition when reached, were broken by the haste, awkwardness, ov 
carelessness of the men. "With proper preparation and careful, indu;;- 
trious laborers, important results may be expected. 

Probably many of the articles, especially the bones sent, vill be throvrn 
out as useless. Some of the bones were packed ui> and forwarded to 
show how much they were decayed. Many long bones were sent to de- 
termine the stature of these people. It was a common remark du:.ing 
the work that the bones were of very large size. I thiidv the men were 
generally under size — not so large as the men of this age. 

A considerable number of ribs were taken from the L"idsay mound 
under the impression that they indicated bodies less round than the 
present races. This question I am not able to answer ,• but I have, on 
much reflection, concluded that the j)eculiar form of these ribs is in a 
great measure due to the pressure of the earth on the bodies. 

In unpacking the bones sent I would recommend that each parcel as it 
is opened be washed and dipped in v^-eak glue, when dry, that each bone, 
intended for preservation, receive a thin coat of the best copal varnish. 
This was the treatment I gave to the bones sent to the Institution in 
1850, taken from the Eobinson mound. 



SKETCH OF AM^IEXT EiKTMWOIlKS OX THE UPPEIl MISSOURI. 



By a. Bakkandt, C. E., of Sioux City. 



Tlic arcliiEoiogical remains of tlie Upper Missouri, from the mouth of 
the Yellowstone, iu a. southeasterly^ direction as far down as Bonhomme 
Isliiud below Fort liandall, exhibit a progressive change of structure 
and outline from the most simple to the most complicated. During my 
stay in that region, 18G9-'70, I had occasion to visit several of those 
ancient fortifications. Among the most important and v.-ell preserved 
is one existing about nine miles south-southeast of the Missouri 
and within half a mile of Clark's Creek, Dakota. The main work is 
iu the form of a parallelogram, three hundred and forty feet long, one 
hundred and ninety feet wide, and twenty and twenty-five feet high ; 
the walls are, on an average, seven feet thick at the summit. There are 
two openings, one facing the "west, twenty-four feet wide, and the other 
facing south, only nine feet wide. The space inside is now full of cottou- 
v.'ood and ash trees. Several large blocks of sandstone, roughly hewn, 
were found, but the walls and a ruined i)ortiou of what ai:)i)eared to be 
the remains of a smaller inclosure, were of calcined clay, changed by 
burning into a brick color. Following the banks of the creek for 
half a mile, we came to the remains of a wall of about five feet in width 
and in some places attaining the height of from three to five feet. We 
traced the wall for about four hundred yards ; it runs for about one 
hundred and fifty yards from east to west, then turning at right angles 
from north to south, the end of which reaches the edge of a deep and 
precipitous ravine, beyond which we could not find any traces of ruins. 

About two hundred and fifty miles up the Bighorn Eiver we found 
also another large mass of ruins, where was probably the site of a large 
mound city, but none are now existing; they have all crumbled away, 
and from a large oak tree that we felled, I found that they must have 
occupied this spot at least six hundred jears ago, as the tree grew on 
the remains of what had been j)robabiy the largest mound. We found 
that these mounds had, for the most part, been constructed of turf and 
adobe or sun-dried bricks of inferior nninufacture, which accounts for 
their decay. 

Another curious spot that I visited was what tlie Indians of the pres- 
ent time call Matou-tipee, (Bear-house.) It is a large mound constructed 
of calcinated clay, which by burning was changed ijito a brick color. 
It is situated near Grand liiver on a high elevation of land; it is encir- 
cled b3" the remains of a wall ; one i)ortion running from east to west 
and then down a hollow ; turning at a right angle it runs from north to 



ANCIENT EARTHWORKS ON THE UPPER MISSOURI. 407 

soutli, the ends reacliiug the banks of tlie creek. Witliiu the area of these 
remains of gigantic walls we fonnd several small mounds of from twenty 
to forty feet in circumference, and from ten to fifteen feet high. 

Further up the Yellowstone I found the remains of an ancient city of 
mounds. It is situated about one hundred and forty miles from the mouth 
of that river, on a bluff of about one hundred and eighty feet in height. 
It seems to have been regularly laid out. The streets are regular, and 
the mounds equidistant from each other. lu the southeast quarter ot 
this city, on the widest of the streets, is one of colossal dimensions, sixty- 
three feet in diameter at the summit, and twenty-seven feet high. 

We could not find any opening in this mound, but succeeded by digging 
into several of the smaller ones to gather remains of some sun-dried 
pottery ; and in one we also found several arrow-heads of stone, frag- 
ments of flint, &c. I counted these mounds, and found eighty-seven in 
good state of preservation, and about sixty-three in ruins. I am satis- 
fied that the remains of the elongated mounds, which are found always 
on the outskirts of a city, were designed and used for fortifications, 
though I have not been able to determine if there were any ditches 
around them. Again, on the banks of the Moreau river, a few miles 
from its mouth, we discovered another of the mound cities, containing 
about two hundred mounds, and a number of the elongated ones, which 
form a regular line of outworks, each wing reaching the bank of the 
river. Again, about two* and a iialf miles further back to the north 
upon au elevation of the ground there is a group of the largest mounds 
I have ever seen. They are built very near together, and are perfect in 
their form. There are no ditches at their base, and they are wanting in 
other appearance of fortifications. Yet I believe them to have been 
used as forts, and that they were placed here to guard the approaches 
to the town from this direction. 

There is still another group of mounds located on the banks of the 
Great Cheyenne; these resemble those last described — not so large, but 
more in number. 

On Bonhomme Island there are also remains of fortifications, which are 
described in Lewis and Clarke's journal of their expedition up the Mis- 
souri, 1804-'o-'C. 

This hasty sketch of some of the ancient remains in the Missouri 
Valley, though tiie result of the observations of two years, is principally 
drawn from the hasty entries in a diary ; therefore no pretensions are 
made to minute exactness. As, however, the preservation of a record 
of the sites of the ancient remains, and every fact connected with it, is 
important to the student of arclueology, this sketch, brief and imper- 
fect as it is, may afford some data of interest in regard to the character 
of the race of men who once thickly peopled this country. 



ACCOUNT OF ABORIGINAL RUINS AT SAVANNAH, TENNESSEE. 



By J. Parish Stp:lle, 



These ruius occupy high rolling ground, on the east side of Tennessee 
Eiver, immediately on the west edge of the town of Savannah, Tennes- 
see. North and south they measure, from outer earth-works to outer 
earth- works, thirteen hundred and eighty-five yards, and east and west, 
five hundred and fifty yards. The inner line of eartli-works is dis- 
tinctly traceable, and consists of an embankment thrown up inside from 
a deep trench, twelve or fourteen feet in width. At every eighty yards 
there is a redoubt, each one extending outward twenty yards, excei)ting 
those at the angles, which project thirty. 




ABORIGINAL RUINS IN TENNESSEE. 409 

The outer line of eartli-worlcs appears to have been mucli lighter. At 
some points it is still visible, while at others, especially on cultivated 
grounds, it has entirely disappeared. In the diagram the obliterated 
parts are represented by dotted lines, and the distinct portions by con- 
tinuous lines. The outer works are fifty-five yards from the inner, and 
parallel with tbem. They also have regular redoubts eighty yards 
apart ; but the redoubts are longer than those of the inner works, 
measuring forty yards along the line, and fifty-five yards at the angles. 
The two lines are so arranged that the redoubts of one generally alter- 
nate with those of the other. 

The earth in which these trenches have been dug is a tough red clay, 
intermixed with gravel, exceedingly hard to excavate. In fact, the en- 
tire elevation upon which the ruins lie is composed of the same mate- 
rial, down almost to low-water mark of the river, where a deposit of 
limestone begins. 

The relative position of the mouuds have been located on the diagram 
by careful measurement. 

Mound A : Ten feet high, forty yards east and west, and sixty yards 
north and south. I made a large excavation in the highest part of it, 
going down in shape somewhat as shown by the dotted line. At the 
depth of a foot and a half we came upon a human skeleton, lying on its 
back, with the head to the south. The bones were so decayed that but 
few could be taken out. At the left side of the head was a vase, con- 
taining the remains of a shell. The root of a tree had grown against 
and broken the vase, but I took out all that could be found. At the 
right of the skeleton, about where the hand should have been, if the 
arm lay at the side, were found three flint imi^lements — knives, I sup- 
pose — and a small polished stone that had i)robably^ been used for paint- 
ing purposes. ^Nothing more was found in this mound. We dug down 
to the solid earth in two i)laces, as shown" by the dotted lines. The 
mound was comiJosed of a soft alluvial soil, evidently brought from the 
river bottom, about two hundred yards distant, and down a steep hill. 

Mound B : A small one, into which we made a large opening in the 
center, and at one foot down obtained a stone implement, which was the 
only article found. The composition of this mound was the same as that 
of A. 

Mound C : Double mound, four feet high. Into this we went down to 
solid earth in two places, but found nothing, except some bits of char- 
coal and other evidences of there having been fire at several points. 
It was niade up of alluvial soil, the same as A. 

Mound D : Has a house upon it, and therefore could not be opened. 

Mound E : Small mound in the garden, with a large tree upon it. I 
did not open it. 

Mound F : Double mound, seventy yards long, forty yards wide at 
widest point, and twelve feet high. We dug down to solid ground by 
two large excavations started at the highest points. Within three feet 



410 ABORIGINAL EUINS IN TENNESSEE. 

of the surfiice, lu the excavation, fragments of pottery utensils were 
found. jSTotliing- further was discovered. These mounds, unlike the 
preceding, were composed of the tough clay and gravel of the ridge 
upon which they stood. A depression near at hand showed where the 
material had been obtained. 

Mound G : Forty-five yards in diameter at base, and twelve feethigh. 
Two large white-oak {Quercus alba) trees were upon it. In one, which 
had been cut down, two hundred and fifteen riugs were counted, mak- 
ing it two hundred and fifteen years old. We dug a large circulnr 
excavation in the center on the top. The earth at the surface gave 
indications of having been intensely heated. At two feet down we 
came upon a human skeleton lying on its back, with the hands at the 
sides, and the head toward the east ; the bones badly decayed. At 
three and a half feet we found another skeleton, lying i)recisely the 
same as the first, and immediately nnder it. At five feet we came 
to loose stones lying upon one another, and rounded up mound- 
shaped, which v;e removed, to the amount of several tons, when the 
solid earth was reached, and a skeleton was found lying exactly as the 
others, but further east, the feet of this one being immediately under 
the heads of the other two. The stones seemed to have been thrown 
directly upon the body; consequently most of tbe bones were more or 
less broken. The skull was crushed entirely flat. At the left side of 
the head were found three copper relics, lying just as I have tied them 
together. The string still to be seen in one of them is made, 1 think, 
from the bark of papaw, {Aslmina triloba^ Dunal,) a circumstance worthy 
of note, as it proves that material to be almost imijerishable. Modern 
Indians used it extensively for strings and ropes, and I can recollect 
when our southern and western people did the same. It was prepared 
by peeling the bark from the trees wdien the sap was up, and sinking it 
under water, to remain several weeks, to " rot," as it was called. When 
taken out the inner separated from the outer bark, and split up into 
very thin sheets. It was these sheets that were used, and after having 
gone through this process they were much stronger than the entire bark 
was before. I send you a slip of " rotted papaw bark." Immediately 
upon the breast of the third skeleton w^as found the fragments of a shell 
ornament. ISTothing further was discovered in " G,'* though we made 
careful and extensive search. The composition of the mound, aside 
from the stones already mentioned, was light surface soil, which seemed 
to have been scraped up from the high lands. 

Mound H : A large mound, ten feet high. It is under cultivation, 
and therefore cannot be opened before autumn. 

Mound I : Has a house upon it, and therefore no examination could 
be made. 

Mound J : Is the largest mound in the group. It is over one hundred 
yards in diameter at the base, thirty feet high, and perfectly level on 
the top. We rigged a windlass, and sunk an eight-foot shaft in the 



ABOEIGINAL RUINS IN TENNESSEE. 411 

center, down to the solid eartb, but found notliinj;-, except nov/ and then 
a broken ilinfc or fragment of pottery. We then dug in the sides, per- 
mitting tbe eartli to tall into the shaft, until we had a large excavation, 
in the shape represented on the diagram, but stiil found nothing. We 
next made excavations twelve feet deep, at various points, but discovered 
nothing in any of them, except in one. Here, within a few inches 
of the surface, we came upon broken fragments of brick, or burned 
earth, exhibiting some kind of molded work. They were in consider- 
able quantities, and looked as if they might originally have been hollow 
columns. If solid columns, the fragments would certainly have been 
larger; the specimens sent are of average size. Immediately under 
these, about one foot below the sur&ce, was what might be styled a tile 
lioor, perfectly level and smooth. We removed the earth, and found it 
to be somewhat crescent-shaped, covering a space of forty-four feet one 
way, and sixteen the other. How much larger it had been we could 
not learn, for roots had grown into it and broken it uj). The tiling, if 
such it can be called, was about an inch thick, and seemed to have 
been made hj spreading tempered clay smoothly upon a leveled space 
of earth and then hardening by means of fire built on top of it. There 
were no seams to indicate that it had been made otherwise and laid 
down in sections. Nothing else was found, except some charcoal around 
the edges. 

Like F, this large central mound was composed of tough clay and gravel, 
making it very hard to dig. Within a short distance were three great 
depressions, from which the earth of which it v.as formed had evidently 
been taken. 

Mound K : A low mound, eighty yards in diameter at the base. We 
opened it in vinious places, as shown in the drawing. Six feet in the 
center bronght us to the bottom, eighteen inches of which was com- 
l)osed of a soft, black earth, in which were found bones, deer horns, 
shells, fragments of pottery, &c. In this deposit we also found two 
stone implements, probably used for pounding corn, opening shell-fish, 
or something of the kirid. 

Mound L is similar to K in every respect. In addition to the usual 
melange of black earth, bones, shells, &c., -we found one ])ounder and 
two pieces of red stone, which, I suppose, had been used for painting. 
We also found one flint knife. Persons not familiar with such relics 
might mistake these knives for arrow or spear heads, from which they 
diifer in not having notches worked in the large end for the purpose of 
attaching them to a shaft. 

Mound j\I: Thirty yards across at base, and five feet high. At two 
feet down Ave came upon a fossil shell and a beautifally-linished little 
stone; I call it a paint mortar. There was no sign of bones, which 
leads to the supposition that these articles were simply buried there for 
safe-keeping. At four feet down we found a large and splendid stone 
implement. It was lying near one side of the mound, and appeared to 



412 ABORIGINAL RUINS IN TENNESSEE. 

liave been lost tliere, as tbere were no visible marks of auytliing' further. 
iN'otbiug- more was found in this mound. The composition, light soil, as 
usual, shows that it had l)een gathered from the surfoce. 

]\Iound iST: Fifteen yards across, and three feet high. Two feet down 
we found a broken stone implement, which was the only article obtained. 
The composition of the mound was the same as M. 

Mound O : A double mouiul, forty by seventy yards at base of largest 
end, and eiglit feet high. We excavated at three points, and found two 
to be of no interest whatever. The third one, at the large end of the 
mound, })roved otherwise. We started down through red and crumbly 
earth, indicating that it had been exposed to high heat. The deeper we 
went the stronger the indications of fire became, until finally, when three 
feet below the surface, we came to a bed of charcoal, or rather what 
IH'oved to be a charred log lying horizontally. We opened the mound 
thoroughly, and found that it had three furnaces passing in at the base 
of the lower side, (the mound is on inclined ground,) and running par- 
allel, about six feet apart, almost entirely through to the base of the 
higher side; that is, ranging upward through the mound at the angle 
of the surface of the solid ground upon which the mound stood. They 
had been formed by first digging trenches into the earth, two feet wide 
and eighteen inches deep. Over these, rude arches had been, thrown, 
formed of irregular masses of tempered claj', probably sun-dried. Some 
of these masses we took out entire. They are about as large as a man 
could handle conveniently, and having been immediately in contact 
with the lire, are burned very hard. 

In the spaces formed between these furnace trenches, and near the 
center of the mound, were found two small piles of human bones, (one 
pile in each space,) which seemed to have been tlirown together without 
regard to regularity. I do not think there could have been more than 
about two skeletons in each pile. They were completely charred by the 
heat from the furnaces, and consequently were very tender to handle. 
On drying out they became much harder. From the three main fur- 
nace trenches went up a large number of small flues, eig,ht or ten inches 
in diameter, whose walls had also been formed of tempered clay, and 
were now burned very hard. At some points they rose directly toward 
the surface of the mound, while from others they wound and twisted 
about through it in various directions, all skillfully x)lanned with a view 
to conveying the heat to all parts of the pile. 

liunning through the mound horizontally, at different elevations, 
were large logs still retaining their entire shape, but cojupletely charred. 
We traced one from end to end, eighteen inches in diameter and twen- 
ty-two feet long. The ends showed that they had been burned off to 
make the piece the desired length, and their great irregularity of out- 
line led me to think that the operation had been performed while the 
log was yet green, and retained its sap. The burning had evidently 
been forced by placing dry pieces of wood across the log and keeping 



ABORIGINAL RUINS IN TENNESSEE. 41 

tliem carefully '^ chunked up," aud the irregularities were due to the 
different positions of the cross-pieces; the log, in consequence of being 
green, having immediately ceased to bum Avhen there ^yas no direct 
contact. 

In addition to these charred logs there were a number of upright 
posts, also charred, which seemed to have been i)laced in position as the 
earth had been filled in, to prevent too great a pressure upon the flues. 
Some of them were more than a foot in diameter and five or six feet 
long. Their ends presented the same irregular outline as the hori- 
zontal pieces. I found one piece of split timber four feet long, eight 
inches wide, and two inches thick. Its ends showed that it had been 
broken to its existing length by main force, for, although a solid coal, 
the splinters were yet perfect. 

I saw nothing about any of these timbers that indicated their having 
been worked by other means than fire, and if there had been anything 
I would certainly have noticed it, for thej' Avere entire, just as tliey had 
been placed in the mound, merely large, solid coals. The coal was in 
as good a state of preservation as if burned but yesterday, as you will 
see by the specimen sent. Two of our blacksmiths have examined these 
specimens. Both agree that one kind is chestnut, ( Castanca vesca, Linn.,) 
but differ with reference to the other — one claiming that it is poplar, 
[Liriodendron tuUpifera., Linn.,) while the other pronounces it our yellow 
pine, {Pinus rigida, Miller.) The two former trees grow abundantly 
about the locality of the ruins, but the pine has not grov.-n nearer than 
four or five miles since the country has been known to white people. 

Every inxvt of the large end of this mound, from base to top, had 
been affected by the heat from the furnaces and flues. In fact, it was 
one huge brick, hard burned near the base, and softer toward the top. 
The earth seemed to have been thrown up loose ; none of it had been 
tenipered except that forming the arch of the furnaces and the walls of 
the flues. There were no fragments of T)ottery, or dross, or cinders, or 
anything else upon which a hypothesis could be based touching the 
object for which the mound had been used. Ashes in the furnaces, 
bones, burned earth, and charred timbers, as already mentioned, were 
the only things found after a most careful and exhaustive examination. 

Mound P : This mound, about fifteen yards across and four feet high, 
was opened by curiosity-seekers two years ago. Report says they found 
nine copper spools like those taken from G, a copper wedge, and a stone 
paint mortar, as I call it in default of a better name. After diligent 
inquiry among the people interested in the digging, I have succeeded in 
obtaining the "wedge," the mortar, and part of one of the spools. The 
discoloration in the concaves of the mortar is due to something put into 
it since it was found — indelible ink, (nitrate of silver.) I think. The 
markings around the edge were the same when found. 

The parties who did the digging assure me that they saw no bones, 
but I think they must have overlooked them, for on opening the mound 



414 ABORIGINAL RUINS IN TENNESSEE. 

more tborouglily I found fragments of fi human skull, but no other 
bones. These lay near the edge of their opening; hence I conchide that 
they must have taken the skeleton out. I also found, lower down, three 
fragments of stone implements. The composition of the mound was 
surface soil, as usual. 

Mound Q : Twenty yards across at base, and nine feet high. At 
eighteen inches down we came upon a bed of coals and burned earth, 
evidently where a large fire had been. At three feet, in v.hat appeared 
to be a dei>osit of ashes, we foiuid a copper relic; at four feet, lying 
alone in the yellow earth, a stone implement; at four and a half feet, 
what seems to be a copper plate attachetl to a fragment of matting; at 
six feet, a second stone implement like the first; at eight feet, lying 
immediately' together, three pieces of lead ore; and at nine feet, on the 
solid earth, a small string of copper beads. 

There were no bones or other things in this mound indicating that it 
had been used as a burial-place. All the articles found, except the cop- 
per wheel, lay immediately' in the yellow earth, and there were no dis- 
colorations in the adjoining soil, which must have been the case had 
perishable articles been buried with them. 

I thiidi you will find the beads are held together by the same imper- 
ishable material to be seen in the copper relics found in G. 



SHELL BEDS. 

There are two extensive shell beds in connection with these ruins, 
one on each side of the river. That on the eastern side has been under 
cultivation for years, and lying immediately upon the surface it is not 
in so good a condition as it would otherwise have been. It covers abont 
half an acre of ground, and is some eighteen inches in thickness. I 
explored it pretty thorooghly before this season's crop Vvas put in, and 
in the collection marked "E" you will find the result, together with 
some of the shells composing the mass. 

The bed on the west side of the river was entirely undisturbed until 
I examined it. It covers a little less than half an acre, is al>out two 
feet in thickness, and lies three feet below the surface ; that is, the 
overflows of the river have made a sedimentary deposit upon the shell 
bed three feet thick. Taking into consideration that this river seldom 
overflows oftener than once in a year, and sometimes but once in several 
years, that its waters are not then as muddy as most other rivers at 
such times, and that being a mountain stream it soon subsides, we can 
form at least some idea of the age of this shell bed. In addition to 
this, I may say there is now growing upon it a burr-oak tree, {Quercm 
macrocarpa^ Michx.,) fully six feet in diameter. 

I explored this bed carefully, and you will find an assortment of what 
I obtained in the collection marked ''S," together with specimens of the 



ABORIGINAL RUINS IN TENNESSEE. 415 

shells. The broken i^ottery was in great abundance, and seems to have 
been broken vessels thrown away with the shells and other refuse. The 
same shell-fish are now to be met with in the river, but they do not 
seem to be in great abundance, judging from what are found along the 
shore. It is possible that they are more plentiful at the bottom of the 
river, however, and that these "old-time people" had some way of 
dredging them up. 

The river is wearing the bank away where the bed crops out; conse- 
quently I had a very good opportunity of noting its position. It lies 
l^erfectly horizontal, and, for some distance up and down the river on 
either side of it, the caving bank is literally dotted with places where 
fires seem to have burned for a long time ; the earth is burned hard 
and to redness, and ashes and coals are there. In digging out the 
places I found several with three stones in the center still occupying tii- 
angular positions, as if arranged for the purpose of supporting cooking 
utensils above the fire. These fires were generally on a level with the 
bottom of the shell bed. 



ACCOUNT OF ABORIGi?.'AL RUINS OX THE WILLIAMS FARM, U HARDIN 

COUNTY, TENNESSEE, TWO MILES BELOW SAVANNAH, TENNESSEE. 



By J. Parish Stelle. 



These ruins occupy a set of ridges running toward tlie bottom lands 
of the Tennessee Kiver, about two miles below Savannah. The fronts 
of the ridges terminate in steep bluffs rising fifty feet above the level of 
the bottom. Along the foot of the bluffs there is a series of springs, 
spreading and forming swampy lands, and through these lauds, also at 
the foot of the bluffs, runs a line of earthworks, made precisely on the 
plan of the earthworks in the Savaunah ruins, with the exception that 
there is but one line traceable instead of two. It seems to have been 
located in the swampy grounds v/here the springs came out, v.'ithaview 
to having the ditch always full of water, which must have been its con- 
dition. The redoubts are about eighty yards apart. Most of the work 
is traceable ; the points at which it is not clearly so I have indicated ou 
the diagram by dotted lines. 

Xo other line of earthworks save this at the foot of the bluifs is to be 
seen; hence we must infer that the defenses ou other sides of the town 
were stockades, or something of the kind. The regular line of mounds 
back (A, P, V, W,) would lead to the conclusion that there had been 
other defenses, and that these mounds were erected for the purpose of 
ov^erlooking them. 

All the mounds of the group were carefully opened ; the markings ou 
the diiigram show the shape and position of the excavations made. 

A. — This is a round-shaped mound, twenty yards across and five feet 
high in the center. Upon its side is a dead white oak, fQucrcus alba, J 
over three feet in diameter. Went to the bottom in the center, but 
found nothing. Composition yellow clay without gravel, showing that 
the material had been taken from the surface of the ridge, as gravel 
occurs a short distance beneath. 

B. — Ten yards across and four feet high in center. Same character 
as A. Cut entirely through it, but found nothing. 

C. — Ten ypa'ds across and four feet high in center. Same character 
as B ; opened it with same result. 

D. — About same size, and precisely same character as C. Opened it, 
but found nothing. 

E. — Ten yards across and six feet high. At eighteen inches down 
we came upon a human skeleton lying with its head toward the south- 
east. The bones were very badly decayed. There were a few shells 
with the bones. Nothing more was found. Upon the side of this mound 
there is a white oak stump over three feet in diameter. 



ABORIGINAL RUINS ON THE WILLIAMS FARM, TENNESSEE. 417 



F. Five yards across and two feet high. Contained nothing. 

G.— Fifteen yards across and four feet high. White oak tree over 
two feet in diameter growing upon it. At two feet down came upon a 
few fragments of decayed bones, so far decayed that we could make noth- 
ing of them. 




H. — Twelve yards across and three feet high. On removing the sur- 
face, we found the mound to be nothing more nor less than a great shell- 
heap. Gave it a thorough turning, but found nothing save such things 
as are usually met with in these shell beds. 

I. — Ten yards across and three feet high. Another mound composed 
partially of shells, though not entirely, as was the case with H. The shells 
were intermingled with yellow clay. At one foot down found a stone 
implement — probably a plow or hoe. You will observe that the large 
end of the implement is much worn, the probable result of working iu 
the earth. There was nothing more. 
27 S 



418 ABORIGINAL RUINS ON THE WILLIAMS FARM, TENNESSEE. 

J. — Ten yards wide aud three feet liigli. Coutained uotliing. 

K. — Twenty yards across and six feet high. Coutained nothing. 

L. — Ten yards across aud two feet high. Contained nothing. 

M. — Ten yards across and two feet high. At the bottom found a small 
stone implement lying alone in the yellow earth, apparently lost there 
when the mound was being made. There was nothing more. 

N. — Tweuty-five yards across aud eight feet high. At two feet down 
came upon shells and fragments of pottery in cousiderable abundance. 
At three feet down, fragments of charcoal were to be seen, and the earth 
had a red appearance, indicating that it had been intensely heated. At 
six feet down we found an imperfect stone implement. There was noth- 
ing of further interest. 

O. — Ten yards wide and three feet high. Contained nothing of 
interest. 

P. — Twenty yards wide and five feet high. Contained nothing. 

Q. — Eighteen yards wide and three feet high. A few scattering shells 
were found, but nothing of additional interest. 

E. — Fifteen yards across and four feet high. Found one large arrow 
or spear-head, but nothing further. 

S. — Twenty yards across and six feet high. Coutained nothing. 

T. — Ten yards across and two feet high. Nothing of interest. 

U. — Twenty-five yards across and six feet high. A few small flint 
implements were found scattered here and there, as if lost at the time of 
building. Nothing more. 

V. — Twenty yards wide and five feet high. Contained nothing. 

W. — Twenty-two yards wide and six feet high. There were some 
traces of bones a few inches below the surface, but they were so much 
decayed that nothing could be made of them. 

X. — Twenty-three yards wide and five feet high. Three feet down. 
there was a deposit of black matter, looking as if some perishable sub- 
stance, as a log of wood, had decayed. There was no sign of bones or 
anything else of interest. 

Y. — Sixty yards across aud seven feet high. Composed of black allu- 
vial soil, evidently brought up the bluff from the river bottom. Exam- 
ined it carefully, but found nothing. 

Z. — One hundred yards across and ten feet high. Composed of black 
soil from the river bottom, the same as Y. Found traces of bones, evi- 
dently human, immediately on the solid earth, but the character of the 
soil making up the mouud liad caused them to decay so badly that but 
little could be made of them. There was nothing further of interest. 

&. — Thirty yards across and twelve feet high. This mound has three 
arms running out from it, as shown in the diagram. They were evi- 
dently for the purpose of affording an easy ascent to the summit — the 
sides were, probably, too steep to be ascended with ease. Three feet 
down we came upon some badly decayed human bones, and with them 
some black substance which seems to have been matting. At seven feet 



ABORIGINAL RUINS ON THE WILLIAMS FARM, TENNESSEE. 419 

yye fonud fragments of charcoal and red burned earth one foot thick, 
and four or five feet in diameter. At nine feet we found another stone 
implement, evidently used in working- the earth. It has been broken, 
and on that account may possibly have been thrown away by the work- 
men engaged on the mound. There was nothing further worthy of note. 

CHARACTER OF THE MOUNDS. 

AH the mounds of this group, with the exception of T and Z, are 
composed of yellow clay, evidently taken from the surface of the ridges ; 
and all, with the exception of &, are rounded on top and reasonably 
regular in outline. In general character, they seem to differ somewhat 
from the Savannah group, for none of them appear to have been places 
of deposit; in fact, I do not think there is a burial mound in the asso- 
ciation. I am of the opinion that the few bones taken out are not those 
of the mound builders, but that they are the remains of more recent 
Indians, buried in the mounds by mere chance, or because their eleva- 
tion above the common level gave them attractions as burial places. 

The arrangement of this "Williams Farm" group has quite strongly 
impressed me with the belief that the mounds were made for two special 
l)urposes — one set, as A, P, V,W, and iierhaps others, to stand as watch- 
towers, from which to overlook the defenses, and the other set, as A, C, 
F, O, S, U, W, X, to act as the lamp-posts of the town ; that is, erected 
for illuminating purposes. I am led to this latter conclusion by their 
situation at the heads of the valleys. Fires kindled upon them even 
now, (and they must have been much taller originally,) would light every 
foot of valley making up into the town site. Add to these a few that 
might be selected upon the interior of the ridges, and the illumination 
of the entire site might be made complete. I found the same arrange- 
ment in the Savannah group. In fact, I have found it so in all the 
groups that I have visited. 

SHELL BEDS. 

There are a number of shell beds in connection with these ruins, but 
since they do not differ in any particular from the shell beds of the 
Savannah group, I have thought it best not to go into any particular 
exploration of them, or to trouble you with specimens. 



FOSSIL WOOD. 

In the same box with this I send you some specimens of fossil wood, 
taken from " Chalk Bluffs" on Tennessee River, in Hardin County, 
Tennessee. The "Bluffs" are caving banks, about three hundred feet 
high, washed at the base by the river. 

I. The piece marked thus will explain itself. It is a sample of what 
I wrote you about as being part wood and part stone. 



420 ABOEIGINAL EUINS ON THE WILLIAMS FARM, TENNESSEE. 

II. Fragments broken from the trunk of a tree six feet in diameter. 
Eight feet of what appears to be the butt end of this specimen is exposed, 
the remainder (no one knows how mucli) runs into the bhiif. 

III. Broken from a specimen seven feet long and four feet in diameter. 

IV. Bark. Is washed out of the bluff in considerable quantities. 

V. Specimens broken from the end of a log three feet in diameter, 
sticking squarely out of the bluff, embedded in the center of a seven- 
foot stratum of yellow sandstone. Bounding the stratum above and 
below are thick bands of iron ore. 

VI. Sample of the yellow sandstone mentioned above. 

VII. Sample of the deposit in which most of the fossils are found. 

VIII. Sx)ecimens picked uj) at random about the bluffs. 



TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS. 



THE EARTHQUAKE L\ PERU, AUGUST 13, 1868. 
\_Extract from letters of John V. Campbell, superintendent of the Arica and Tacua Eailroad.'] 

Tacua, Novemher, 1868. 

The sight of Arica would fill with dismay any one who had known the 
place before. The destrnctionhas been complete, and more need not be 
said, were it not that the ruins and signs of the great devastation 
that meet one on all sides make the aspect of the place so painful that 
people who once see it are afraid to look on it again. The lower part of 
the town is a heap of ruins, except where passages have been cleared to 
serve as streets, while in the upper part, beyond the reach of the tidal 
wave, many walls and parts of houses are still standing, but so cracked 
and shattered as to be quite uninhabitable, and they evidently show 
that, even without the aid of the sea, Arica was a mass of ruins after 
the heavy shock of the earthquake. Further back on the pampa, going 
toward Arapa, the people have built their wooden sheds in great num- 
bers and with much regularity. It is said this will be the future site 
of the town. 

In the part of the town that was washed by the sea the confusion of 
the ruins is indescribable, and the effect of the waves is bewildering. 
Alongside the mole is the stationary engine-boiler of the railway, also 
the remains of the two locomotive-tenders ; up in the market-place is 
another tender, one of the boilers of the llour-mill, and one of the iron 
girders of Mr. Hegan's turn-table, all large pieces of iron weighing 
many tons, that have been carried by the force of the waves more 
than seven hundred yards. Facing Eusert's house, or rather the site 
where it stood, is oije of the locomotives ; farther on, facing Nugent's 
house, is another ; and a few yards farther, the third, 'all in the sea, 
broken and completely worthless. The strength of the wave is, how- 
ever, more apparent at San Jose, where the piers of the bridge have 
been cut oif, on a level with the bed of the ris^er, and carried in large 
compact blocks of masonry intact, four, five, and six hundred yards on to 
the highest ground behind. The tubular girders have been carried a 
similar distance, and many broken. 

The bed of San Jose Eiver has been filled up about four feet, while our 
embankment on each side has been washed down, and the temporary track 
we have built passes over the bed of the river with a culvert of only 
three feet. This of course the floods will carry away in winter, and 
how we shall ever manage to construct a permanent bridge I cannot yet 



422 TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS. 

conceive. From San Jose to near the side track at Cbacalluta, fully 
four miles, the railway track has been torn np and obliterated, the large 
sand-banks at Chiucoro have disappeared, and an open, level beach 
remains. The vessel Wateree is on the pampa five hundred yards inland, 
and about eighty from the highest ground ; the America lies in the same 
line, about two hundred yards nearer the seaj while between them are 
the shattered remains of the Chanarcillo. 

The waves approached nearer the hills than I ever could have thought 
possible, and the pampa for miles is strewn with wreck. The beach all 
along is covered with large stones, mixed up with sea-weeds, pieces of 
wood, of furniture, of machinery, and of boats and vessels 5 the mixture, 
which also includes rags, and abundance of papers, custom-house doc- 
uments, etc., is, however, quite beyond any attempt at description. 

Very few people can give a clear account of the catastrophe. Almost 
all appear to have been paralyzed with fear, and certainly they had 
good cause. IS ugent is almost the only one who appears to have been 
collected and to have watched the progress of events. He says that 
when the sea receded, the anchorage of the steamers, which was in 
seven fathoms (forty-two feet) water, remained dry ; that all the vessels 
were dragged seaward except the Chanarcillo and A. Eiviere, wliich 
remained aground, and high and dry at their anchorage. Many minutes 
elapsed, during which the sea appeared to be gathering itself up, until 
at last it came like an enormous dark green wall, and swallowed up 
everything it could reach. The wave came over the top of the custom 
house, which will give some idea of its altitude. 

The line to which it reached is forty-five feet nine inches above high- 
water level, which, added to the forty-two feet that it had receded, will 
give a wave nearly ninety feet in height. The current was very strong, 
the log of the Wateree says sixteen miles, and appears to have been 
circular like a whirlpool. The vessels could do nothing, and were car- 
ried about like chips. The A. Eiviere was never seen again, but frag- 
ments of her wreck were washed ashore. The ChaGarcillo, a much 
stronger vessel, came on shore completely smashed ; and from the fact 
of her having five or six turns of her cables around her hull, wesurmi.se 
that she must have turned over as many times before her anchor parted. 

The loss of life so far ascertained is about five hundred and fifty, 
between the town and the bay. There were some singular escapes. 
John Williams's wife and children were carried in and out by the waves, 
of which there were eleven in all, a number of times, and were finally 
deposited on the high ground. Vacarro, who, having a broken leg, 
was placed by his friends in a large launch, was carried in and oat 
every time, and was left at last among the ruins of the church of San 
Francisco. Eusert's horse at the mill was carried off by the waves, and 
two days afterward was found unhurt on the little island in the middle 
of the Sisera. 

Matters in Arica are still in a bad way, as you may judge for your- 



EARTHQUAKE IN PERU. 423 

self, -when I mention that the best-boused man in Arica is Ausdell, who 

is living in the remains of a first-class railway-car. I stay with him 

when in Arica. 

J. Tacua had a marvelous escape. Only a few very old houses, these 

I principally at the corners of the streets, where they had no support from 

other walls, came down. Of course every building suffered ; but beyond 

plaster and paper falling down, and cracks at all the joints, I do not find 

much damage in any of our property. The dwelling-house stood well, 

and 1 have now increased confidence in its strength — a consolation, you 

may be sure, as we have seldom less than four to six earthquakes daily. 

* « * # * * * 



Tacua, September 15, 1869. 

Months have appeared years since I last wrote you, so horrid have 
been the times through which I have passed, and yet I have to be grate- 
ful that I and my family are yet alive. I allude to the dreadful visita- 
tion of yellow fever, which now, thank God, has passed away. 

It commenced in Arica in November, and up to 31st March, 1869, the 
official records alone show one thousand nine hundred and fifty-nine 
burials, but the real mortality was over two thousand five hundred. Of 
our contract-men in the station and workshop seventeen out of twenty 
died. In July, 1868, I shipped at Liverpool a blacksmith, John Parry, 
with his wife and three children, and I was in Arica when they reached 
their destination. First a child died, then the mother, the father fol- 
lowed, and I was taking measures to send home the two orphans, when 
they died also. The family was thus wiped out completely, and there 
were many other similar cases. 

In Tacua the fever broke out with the suddenness of an exi^losion and 
swe])t to their last rest over three thousand three hundred souls. The 
mortality would have been much greater, but the people fled to the hills 
and in that way escaped contagion. Among my wife's relatives w^e lost, 
counting grown-up people only, her aunt, and two of her sons, and two 
cousins. I lost four clerks, and among them our book-keeper and cashier, 
men we cannot readily replace. 

Our situation through March, April, and May was awful ; we were 
expecting death at every moment and continually sorrowing for the 
loss of one friend after another. At times there were no bakers and no 
bread, no butchers and. no shops. All the apothecaries died and their 
places had to be taken by amateurs. The carts were insufficient to 
carry the dead, and three relays of cartmen died in succession. The 
cemeteries were filled to repletion, and then the bodies were thrown 
into trenches. We are now walling round these trenches, and they take 
over seven thousand feet of wall to inclose them. 

I have recalled to my memory a time that now appears to me a 
horrid dream, and I had better turn to a more agreeable subject. You 



424 TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS. 

will now comprehend my long silence, as since the 30th May I have been 
busy at reorganization, drilling new hands, and pulling up heavy arrears 
of work. 

As you ask me for particulars of earthquakes, I will tell you the 
result of my long-continued observations. Their course here is invaria- 
bly from the mountain range to the sea — in this district from east by 
north to west by south. Walls built north and south — that is, across the 
course of movement — are those that suffer most. Many have fallen and 
all are more or less injured. Walls built east and west suffer little if at 
all, except occasional!}' when they are at the corner of the street, and 
then only a few of the last adobes fall. 

The movements appear to have the greatest intensity or rather effect 
in sand. The walls of houses built on sand when they do not fall, as 
most frequently they do, are left in a crumbled condition, crashed and 
shattered in every direction. It is clear that the earthquake movement 
imparts a variety of movements to sand. I think, too, the force that 
causes the movements acts in the line of least resistance, or tries to lib- 
erate itself where it finds its work easiest. 

You remember the " big cut" on the A. and T. line and the conglom- 
erate that you so often anathematized. That conglomerate, however, 
resists earthquakes, and I attribute the preservation of Tacua on the 
13th August, 1868, to the town being built on it. Not a stone falls in 
the big cut, and I have a hole in the yard of my house fifty-one feet 
deep, all through this formation, with an old wall two feet from its edge, 
that I was sure would have fallen in, but to my great surprise every- 
thing remained sound and intact. This conglomerate is, as you know, 
very tough and must offer immense resistance to the earthquake force. 

Our rock here is all trachyte tuffa, a few stages only removed from 
pumice-stone, and offers little or no resistance to the earthquake shocks. 
Houses built on it fall easilj'. 

The earthquake waves are low and only measure a few inches in 
height. The damage they cause a^ipears to me more owing to duration 
than to altitude of the movement. The earthquake of the 24th ultimo 
lasted ninety seconds and left things standing ; while a duration of five 
minutes would have brought them down. The effect of this last earth- 
quake on vessels at sea you will find in the Valparaiso papers of last 
mail in the case of the ship Payta. The water appeared to run away 
from the vessel's sides, and the people in her feared being submerged. 
She was fifty-seven miles south of Arica, in a direct line cast and west 
with Islaya, now, as then, in a violent state of eruption, and must 
have been caught in the very center of the movement. 

The effects of an earthquake on a train in motion arc worth mention- 
ing. On the 13th of August, ISGS, the I^resideute (our very first and 
last engine) took up the train, (regulation load one hundred and twenty 
tons, cars included, but exclusive of locomotive and tender twenty-two 
and one-half tons,) and was going at about sixteen miles per hour when 



ELECTRO-MAGNETIC SEISMOGRAPH. 425 

it suddenly stopped with a smart sliock. Mr. Ausdell, wlio was a pas- 
senger, thonglit something had given way on the engine, while Braitli- 
waite, the driver, thought the stoppage was caused from behind. The 
train, however, would not move, so the steam was shut off and both got 
down to examine matters. They could hardly stand on the ground, and 
at once perceived the true state of the case. 

Earthquakes are very frequent yet, and the people are in a state 
of panic, a German astronomer, Falb, having predicted our total de- 
struction on the 30th September or 1st October; while an Englishman, 
Saxeby, defers the event until the 5th of October. The people are de- 
serting Arica, and the authorities are making us bring up the custom- 
house to Tacua. On the railway we can barely keep our work going. 
In Tacua two-thirds of the population are sleeping in tents. I never 
before witnessed such a fright. People refuse to transact business until 
after the 5th of October, or when purchases are made delivery is stipu- 
lated for after that date. 

Several shocks, and two very severe ones on the 20th and 24th of 
August, have enforced the German's predictions, and it is becoming 
heresy to argue against him. The Cordillera is to be the shore of the 
Pacific. 

The anniversary of the 13th August was a great day in Arica. There 
were masses and "Veligious processions to prevent a repetition of the 
great cataclysm, but the people were very anxious, and passed the day 
on the hill-tops, relieving themselves at intervals by prayer and flying- 
visits to the taverns. All, however, passed off well. 



THE ELECTRO-MAGNETIC SEISMOGRAPH. 

By Peof. Palmieri, of the University of Naples. 

ITranslated hy B. 0. Duncan, esq., United States consul, and furnished to the Smithsonian 
Institution by the Department of State.} 

In all the instruments invented up to the present time for registering 
the movement of the earth's surface, the force itself of the motion of the 
earth has been charged with the labor necessary for preserving the trace 
of the shocks ; and this is the reason why slight oscillations of the soil 
could not be registered. lu the seismograph, which I am about to de- 
scribe, it is the electric current which performs the labor, and, there- 
fore, it is possible to have a registering apparatus capable of the great- 
est precision even for the slightest shocks. It is also possible by means 
of this apparatus to perceive the register of many vibrations of the earth 
which would otherwise es(;ape observation. 

Suspended above a small iron cup containing mercury is a fine brass 
wire coiled into the form of a cork-screw, of about fourteen or fifteen turns. 



426 TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS. 

The diameter of the wire is about one millimeter, and that of the spiral 
twenty or twenty-five millimeters. This spiral is supported at its upper 
extremity by a thin elastic spring, and can be elevated or lowered by 
means of a screw. The lower extremity of the spiral is terminated in 
a cone of copper, pointed with platinum, which is kept at a very minute 
distance from the mercury contained in an iron cup, which is placed on 
a column of wood or marble. The distance from the point of platinum 
to the mercury may be varied at pleasure, but once fixed upon it re- 
mains invariable, in spite of any changes of temperature, owing to a 
very simple system of compensation ; the rod which sustains the spiral 
being of a metal which expands upward, with an increase of tempera- 
ture, as much as the spiral is lengthened downward. The iron cup and 
the spiral are in communication with the poles of one of Daniell's gal- 
vanic batteries of two couples. 

If the surface of the earth is agitated by a vertical shock, even 
scarcely perceptible, the point of ijlatinum will touch the mercury below 
it, and will complete the current of the battery. Then two electro-mag- 
nets, which are in the same circuit, will attract their armatures or 
keepers, and the first will stoj) the running of a clock, which marks the 
days of the month, the hours, the minutes, and the half-seconds; and 
will thus register the exact moment of the commencement of the shock. 
At the very instant the clock stops it gives a signal of alarm by means 
of a bell. The second electro-magnet in drawing its armature sets free 
the pendulum of a second clock, which had been stopped out of the ver- 
tical line, and this clock in running causes a band of i)aper to move at 
the rate of three meters an hour. At the same time the armature of 
the second electro-magnet presses a pencil against the paper as it passes 
over a little pulley, and causes it to trace a series of dots on the paper, 
corresponding in length to the duration of the shock; the shock having 
ceased, the paper will continue its movement unwinding from one cylin- 
der and winding up on another ; and if another shock occurs, the pencil 
will register it as before by another series of dots, and thus continue ; 
so that the intervals remaining unmarked will indicate the hours of 
repose, and the parts marked the duration of the oscillations. 

To other spirals, Ibrmed with difterent numbers of coils, are suspended 
small magnets, under which are placed some iron filings, which adhere 
to the magnets when they oscillate verticall.y ; and thus they preserve 
the trace of vertical shoclis. One of these spirals causes a light needle 
to move on a graduated arc, and thus measures the extent of the oscil- 
lations. 

Four glass tubes, each bent at both extremities at right angles, hav- 
ing thus two vertical branches, united at the middle of the base of the 
horizontal portion, serve to indicate the horizontal shocks; one of the 
two vertical branches has a diameter at least double the other, but is 
shorter. These four tubes are arranged in the direction of the four 
cardinal points. As they are all alike and act in the same way, it will 



ELECTRO-MAGNETIC SEISMOGRAPH.. 427 

be sufficient to uotice one of them. A certain quantity of mercury hav- 
ing been poured into this tube, a wire of iron or phitinum is put in the 
branch with the greater diameter, and another phitinum wire is i)hiced 
at a very small distance from the surface of the mercury contained in 
the branch with the smaller diameter. 

On the surface of the mercury contained in the branch with the small- 
er diameter is placed a floating piece of iron suspended hj a lino silk 
thread, which passes over an ivory pulley, with a counter- weight so reg- 
ulated that if the floating piece is raised by the mercury it remains sei»a- 
ratedfrom it, (at the point to which it had been raised ;) and as the axis 
of the pulley has attached to it a long and light needle, it is evident 
that this needle will deviate when the floating piece rises, and that re- 
maining fixed, it will indicate upon the arc of the graduated circle the 
number of degrees it has traced. If there be a horizontal shock in the 
direction of one of these tubes of mercury, the mercury will be agita- 
ted m the two vertical branches, but, undergoing more perceptible oscil- 
lations in the branch with the smaller diameter, it will raise the floating 
piece of iron, and will cause the needle to deviate in a corresponding 
manner. Bat at the same instant the mercury will touch the point of 
the platinum wire, and the electric current, which will thus have pas- 
sage, will excite the two electro-magnets before mentioned, and will act 
in the same manner as already explained for vertical shocks. The 
deviation of the needle will indicate the direction of the shock ; and if 
the shock is not in the exact direction of the tubes, its real direction 
will be indicated by two needles. 

By the aid of the electric current, shocks may be registered which 
would otherwise escape notice on account of their extreme slightuess, 
for the trembling of the surface has no resistance to overcome, pro- 
vided that the points of platinum are placed very near the surface of 
the mercury. I have added some auxiliary apparatus for shocks a little 
more violent. For instance, I have placed at the base of the column the 
mercury-apparatus of Coulier or of Cacciatore. At the extremity of the 
metallic wire I have suspended a metal globe, which, in oscillating, 
moves the light horizontal tubes by which it is surrounded. 

One clock is intended to make known with the precision of a half-sec- 
ond the beginning of the shock ; but to know the hour in which the 
shock occurs, the other clock will suflice ; for the length of the paper 
unrolled by the wheel, and the hours marked by the needle, will indicate 
sufficiently the time. This apparatus registers all the shocks that take 
place, indicating the duration of each and the time that elapses between 
them ; but it cannot give the nature and intensity of each of them. 
By it we can know if all the shocks were vertical, and also their maxi- 
mum intensity. We can likewise know if all were horizontal, and if 
they had the same direction, or if the direction was different. We can 
also know if there was one shock of one kind, and another of a dittereut 
kind. This seemed to me sufficient for registering the movements (trem- 



428 TERRESTEIAL PHYSICS. 

bliugs) of the surface, wliicli are frequent ou Vesuvius, but wbicli are 
very rarely observed. The apparatus being visited at least three or 
four times daily, at the ordinary hours of observation, and the alarm- 
clock announcing the moment when the shocks occur, the instrument 
may always be put back into its normal condition. This is the reason 
why I have not thought it necessary to add other parts, which would 
render it more complicated. 

But for violent earthquakes, which compel the leaving of the house, 
and which render the visiting of the apparatus dangerous, one can, by 
the action itself of the violent shocks, register tbe character, the dura- 
tion, and intensity of each of them, with the aid of an auxiliary appa- 
ratus that I have long ago prepared in my mind, but which I have not 
yet had executed. My principal object was to discover the slight move- 
ments of the surface which hitherto escaped us entirely. The seismo- 
graph above described has not only given me the surest indications of 
approaching eruptions of Vesuvius, but it indicates also the violent 
earthquakes which occur in Italy and the entire basin of the Mediterra- 
nean, even the eruptions of Etna and of Santorin. 

In localities exposed to violent earthquakes this apparatus should be 
placed on a solid foundation of masonry, constrncted immediately on 
the surface, and protected by a covering of wood capable of resisting 
the shocks. 



ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF FOREST-TREES IN MONTANA, IDAEO, AND WASH- 

OGIOxN. 

By W. W. Johnson. 

In accordance with the promise made, I submit the following views of 
the distribution of forest-trees over that portion of the ISTorthwest com- 
prising the Territories of Montana, Idaho, and Washington, or more ]iar- 
ticularly the region extending from the forty-fifth to the fiftieth parallel 
of north latitude and from the one hundred and tenth meridian to 
the Pacific Ocean. This part of our continent is traversed by three 
systems of mountains, the Eocky, Bitter Root, and Cascade Eanges. 
The mountain system of the two first named occupy a si>ace of about 
two hundred miles in width, or from about the one hundred and twelfth 
to the one hundred and seventeenth meridian, while the latter lies in 
the vicinity of the one hundred and twentieth meridian, and their general 
direction is north and south ; these are approximate locations, and are 
stated' as limits of description. The traveler through the Bocky and 
Bitter Root Mountains would be unable to tell where he lett the one or 
entered the other. The valleys of the main water-courses are broad and 
timberless, while the banks of every stream are fringed with a belt of 
Cottonwood, with willows, alders, and a small birch undergrowth. 
While the mountain spurs and ridges v;hich form the boundaries of these 



FOREST TREES. 429 

valleys, aud in which these streams take their rise, are timbered more or 
less heavily with the several varieties of firs and pines, the loftier 
ranges, say from six thousand to eight thousand feet in altitude, are 
clothed with a thick growth of tall black pines, which are from three to 
ten inches in diameter, of from thirty to fifty feet in height, while the 
lower ranges and spurs have firs and pines from saplings up to six and 
nine feet in diameter, the tallest trees being probably" from one hundred 
to two hundred feet in height. Geological formation has something to 
do with the growth and variety of timber, the granitic soils being ap- 
parently preferred by the pines, while the firs are the most abundant on 
the limestones aud old red sandstones. Upon neariug the limits of 
vegetation upon the many peaks whose summits are seldom destitute of 
snow, the stunted pine appears to be the only tree which struggles there 
to maintain its foothold. 

West of the Bitter Eoot Eiver, which washes the eastern base of the 
formidable range of mountains called in one locality the Bitter Eoot and 
in another the Coeur d'Alene Mountains, the character of the country 
changes. The streams which meander in sinuous courses through the 
caQons, gorges, defiles, and ravines of this region, which has a width of 
from seventy to one hundred and forty miles, are confined to narrow beds 
between mountain spurs, and the entire face of the country is covered 
with a forest which has forbidden, until lately, even the hardy and ad- 
venturous miner from exploring its fastnesses, and determining the 
heads and courses of its draining streams. After leaving the western 
base of this mountain-bed we enter the great plain of the Columbia, 
where no trees are seen, except along the water-courses, as on the eastern 
side of the mountains, over a vast plain which presents to the eye the 
appearance of a rolling ocean tossed by contending billows. Crossing 
this plain, up nearly to the summits of the Cascade Mountains, a dis- 
tance of about one hundred and fifty miles, we again enter into the 
timber, which stretches thence in an almost unbroken forest to the Pacific, 
where the trees of pines and firs assume gigantic proportions, and have 
given to WavShington Territory the reputation of affording the best spar 
and ship timber in the United States, if not in the world. To the north, 
when you enter into the region of the Upper Columbia aud its tributa- 
ries, which rise in the damp lake country of the BritivSh possessions, as far 
as my experience goes, the fiftieth parallel, the country yields as fine a 
growth of timber as in the mountain regions to the south of it, similar 
in character, but wider in its extent. This country is devoid of any 
extensive iirairies, and is but si)arsely inhabited, and has been imx)er- 
fectly explored. 

Having thus given the outlines of the distribution of the trees over 
the tract set forth, I would suggest the theory which presents itself to 
my observation, as accounting for the treeless valleys, prairies, aud i^laius 
which form so large a part of our great West. Wlien I first entered that 
country, nearly eleven years ago, I was much struck by the absence of 



430 TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS. 

raius in summer on these plains. Showers would come up as tliey do 
in the eastern part of the United States, but seemed to be drawn and 
swept along the sides of the mountains, where they expended their 
moisture, giving only to us in the prairies the comfort of tlieir shadows. 
I noticed this in a residence of some five'years in the Walla-Walla Val- 
ley, on the southern boundary of the great plain of the Columbia, as 
well as in the many valleys of Montana. Living, as I have for several 
summers, under canvas, and my business calling my attention to the 
clouds and the trees, my experience there corroborates my observation 
in W^alla-Walla, as showing that the showers of summer are of much 
more frequent occurrence along the mountain-sides, and are always of 
longer duration among the timbered peaks and foot-hills than in the 
lower and treeless portions of the country. The trees grow always along 
the streams, where there is a constant supi)ly of water, although the soil 
may not dilfer in any material respect from that in the immediate \'i- 
cinity, which, being dry and unnourished by rains, afford no nutriment 
to the seeds of the cottonwood, the pine, or the fir. Not only the ab- 
sence of rains in summer, but the absence of snows in winter, are a pre- 
ventive to the growth of forests. Thus, we see these valleys are sel- 
dom visited by snows of any depth, from twelve to tweut3-four inches 
being the limits of deposit in ordinarj^ winters, and frequently the fall 
over their surfaces does not reach a depth of over five or six inches, 
while in the elevated lands of the mountains in the timber, snows of from 
three to seven feet are of almost universal occurrence every winter, and 
in the northern latitudes referred to, while the altitude is not so great, 
still the snow deposit is as great and as widely diffused. 

As another evidence of moisture being a controlling element in the 
growth of trees, wherever a sjiring starts out of a mountain-side, other- 
wise treeless, a clump of timber marks the spot, and is an almost sure 
sign of its presence; and wherever a tree is i)lanted and supplied with 
its requisite amount of water, the growth is as thrifty, as healthy, and 
as enduring as in its native forest. 



INFLUENCE OF THE AIROKA ON THE TELEGRAPH. 

By W. D. Sargkxt. 

Haeeiseukg, Pennsylvania, Septemlter 27, 1870. 

I take the liberty of laying before you some crude observations of 
mine on the effect of the aurora on telegraph lines on the nights of the 
24th and 25th instant. 

Saturday, September 24th, the wires were very much interrupted all 
the evening, and we supposed a storm was gathering in the west, but 
the appearance of the aurora between 8 and 9 p. m. discovered the real 
cause of the trouble. The light and flashes increased in brilliancy and 



INFLUENCE OF AURORA ON THE TELEGRAPH. 431 

color up to about 11 o'clock, when the whole northwestern part of the 
heavens was a brilliant red, reaching to the zenith, the color fading 
gradually to the north to a strong white light, and then rising again in 
the northeast, but not so brilliantly as in the northwest. At this time 
(11 p. m.) I came to the of&ce ami had one of our lines disconnected from 
the batteries and the ends grounded at Harrisburg and Philadelphia. 
This arrangement gave a current a trifle stronger than the regular bat- 
teries and in the same direction, galvanometer deflecting to the right. 
At 11.45, after one or two breaks, the current changed, the galvanometer 
needle deflecting to the left ; at 11.55 back to the right ; at 12.10 to the 
left, where it remained until 1 o'clock, when I went home. 

After the galvanometer needle deflected to the left, at 11.45, the current 
became very unsteady and weak; was only sufficiently strong to move 
the relay for a few minutes at a time. The galvanometer showed a 
current of varying strength all the time. 

Sunday, September 25th, the aurora again appeared about 8.30 p. m., 
but not near so brilliant as on the former evening. 

I had a wire connected as before, viz, to the ground at Harrisburg and 
Philadelphia. This produced no effect whatever on the relay. The gal- 
vanometer at 8.40 deflected to the left; 8.45, right; 9, left; 9.20, right; 
9.21, left ; here the current was very changeable, the needle flattering 
from side to side ; at 9.22 aga,in to the right, where it remained until 
10 p. m., when I went home. 

The galvanometer I have is Dr. Werner Siemen's universal galvan- 
ometer. 

[The change in direction of the current may possibly have been 
due to the greater action of a beam of the aurora on the easterly part 
of the wire between Harrisburg and Philadelphia, and afterward of 
another beam on the westerly part of the wire. It is therefore import- 
ant to note whether a change of a similar kind takes place in a wire 
extending north and south. — J. H.l 



METEOROLOGY. 





NEW CLASSIFICATIOX OF CLOUDS. 

By Professor Andre PoiiY, 
Late director of the ohservatory at Havana. 

HISTORICAL SKETCH. 

The meteorologists of antiquity felt the need of distinguishing the 
different appearances of clouds, but were, at the onset, completely be- 
wildered by the great variety of form which they assumed, api^arently 
without order. Aristotle* first studied the phenomena of clouds in rela- 
tion to their optical properties — their power of reflecting and refracting 
light, and the production of rainbows, halos, and coronas. Theophras- 
tus,t his disciple, afterward vaguely observed the forms of clouds rela- 
tive to the predictions of change of weather. He remarked, for exam- 
ple, that the appearance of straight horizontal layers of clouds on the 
summits of mountains is an indication of wind and rain; but these 
attempts evidently must have failed, because the natural classification 
of objects in the time of Theophrastus was unknown. It was not until 
1801 that the great naturalist Lamarck, | and in the year after the cele- 
brated English meteorologist Luke Howard, § perceived the possibility of 
referring the clouds to some fundamental types, following the exami)le of 
the natural classification for living beings adopted by Linneus. Lamarck, 
who pointed out the importance of the study of the forms of clouds, de- 
termined six i)rincipal types, which he denominated clouds en balayurcs, 

* Aristotle. 

t Theophrastus. — Liber de ventis, et opuscula de signis pluviarum et tempestatis, 
auct. Theoplirasto, in lat. vers, et illustr. apud Franciscum de Franciscis Bonaveutura, 
Veuetiis, 1594, 4 parts, 1 vol., 4to ; Eresii Tlieoiihrasti qua siipersunt opera et oxcerpta 
Librorum quatvior tomis compreheusa Jo. Gottlob Scbneideri, Lijisise, 1818-21, 5 vol., 
8vo, vol. ii, pp. 466-476, 599-605 ; vol. iv, pp. 719-756 ; vol. v, pp. 163-173. 

t Lamarck. — Amiuaire meteorologiqiie, Paris, an x. No. 3, p. 149 ; an xi. No. 4, pp. 
126-128 ; an xii, No. 5, p. 159. 

^ How.u^D. — Tillocb's Pbilosopbical Magazine, 1803, vol. xvi, pp. 97-107, 344-357; vol. 
xvii, pp. 5-11, pi. vi, vii, viii, vritb some changes not affecting the nomenclature in 
Eee's Cyclopaedia, 1819, vol. viii, art. cloud; in Nicholson's Philosophical .Journal, 1812, 
vol. XXX, pp. 35-62, without plates ; in supplement to the EncyclopajdiaBritaunica, 1824, 
vol. iii, pp. 202-205, art. cloud, with plates, and the addition of a set of new terms for the 
modifications, intended for the use of English readers ; The Climate of London, London, 
1833, vol. i, pp. xxxix-lxxii ; On the Modifications of Clouds, and on the Principles of 
their Production, Suspension, and Destruction, being the substance of an essay read 
before the Askesian Society in the session fi-om 1802 to 1803, issued separately, in 1832, 
London, 8vo., without plates ; id , London, 1864, in 4to, with lithographs. 



CLOUDS. 433 

(sweeping ;) en harre, (burs;) pommcles, (curdled;) groujyes, (grouped;) 
en voile, (veil;) and attronpes, (piled.) The year following, 1802, Luke 
ECoward proposed a classification of clouds still more elaborate than that 
of Lamarck. It is a remarkable fact that these two savants, who labored 
independently of each other on clouds observed in two different coun- 
tries, should have arrived at almost the same fundamental types, and 
especially at the determination of the same clouds, though designated 
by different denominations. Thus, in the seven types which Howard 
has established, we find the first five types of Lamarck, according to 
the following table : 

Types of Lamarck. Types of Howard. 

Eu balayures, (swec])ings) Cirrus. 

En barre, (bar) Cirro-stratus. 

PommeMs, (ciirdled) Cirro-cumulus. 

Group^s, (grouped) Cumulo-stnitus. 

Eu voile, (veil) Nimbus. 

As to the two other clouds of Howard, the stratus being but a mist, 
and the cumulus corresponding entirely to his own cumulo-stratus, since 
he made double use of these identical forms, we see how the five true 
types of Howard are fundamentally the same as those of Lamarck. If 
we consider that my new t3T)e of fracto-cumulus is found in the classi- 
fication of Lamarck under the name nuage attroupe, (piled cloud,) adding 
besides my two other types of pallio-cirrus and of pallio-cumulus, the 
last being a modification of Howard's nimhus, we have the classifica- 
tion of clouds established by me in 18G3, which I shall describe in the 
follov7ing exposition. The types which served as the base of Howard's 
nomenclature were very happily chosen, since, as Kiimtz well observed, 
they are connected with anterior atmospheric changes, and conseciuently 
furnish us with indications of approaching change of weather. How- 
ard in his classification, which is almost entirely based upon the form of 
the clouds, distinguishes three simple modifications : The cirrus : par- 
allel flexions, or diverging fibers, extensible by increase in any or in all 
directions; the cumulus: convex or conical heaps increasing upward 
from a horizontal base ; the stratus : a widely extended, continuous, 
horizontal sheet, increasing from below upward, from which the two 
following intermediate modifications are derived : The cirro-cumulus : 
small, well-defined, roundish masses in close horizontal arrangement or 
contact ; the cirro-stratus : horizontal, or slightly inclined masses at- 
tenuated toward a i)art or the whole of their circumference, bent down- 
ward or undulated, separate or in groups consisting of small clouds 
having these characters; and, finally, the two following compound 
modifications : The cum ulo- stratus : the cirro-stratus blended with the 
cumulus, and either appearing intertwined with the heaps of the latter, 
or superadding a ivide-spread structure to its base ; the cumulo-cirro-stratus 
vel nimbus: "The rain-cloud, a cloud or system of clouds from which 
rain is falling. It is a horizontal sheet, above which the cirrus spreads, 
while the cumulus enters it laterally and from beneath." I shall point 
28 s 



434 METEOROLOGY. 

out below tlie faulty iuterpretatiou wliicli lias been given by all the 
writers to the description of Howard's two types of clouds, the stratus 
and nimbus, then the defects of this nomenclature, which I reject, and 
the new classilication which I substitute, although since the time of 
Howard no other classification having been hitherto proi^osed, the fol- 
lowing are some partial attempts which have been made on the subject. 
In 1815 Thomas J. M. Forster* reproduced, with some remarks, 
Howard's description of clouds, adding an English nomenclature of 
common names. In 1817 A. Miillerf proposed the removal of some ob- 
scurities in Howard's descriptions, founded upon observations which he 
had carried on for twenty years at Vienna, in the north of Germany, 
upon the northern and southern slopes of the Alps, on the banks of the 
Ehine, and in France. In 1832 the celebrated meteorologist Kamtz| 
determined a new form of clouds under the name of strato-cumulus, or 
night-clouds; that is to say, the reverse of Howard's cumulo- stratus. 
But before his death, M. Kamtz himself acknowledged to me that he 
no longer attached any importance to his strato-cumulus , and that I could 
erase it from the nomenclature of couds. In 1857-58 W. S. Jesons§ 
published two notes upon the form of cirrus and other clouds. He 
endeavored to account for their formation by laboratory- experiments, 
which he had made with vapor of water. In 18G3 the lamented Ad- 
miral Fitz Eoy, II having in charge the meteorological department of 
the Board of Trade, (London,) proposed the atloption of an augmenta- 
tive termination in onus, and a diminutive in itus, to the nomenclature 
of Howard, in the following manner : From cirrus he forms cirronus 
and cirritus ; from cirro-stratus, cirrono-stratus and cirrito-stratiis, and 
so on. IsTot only does this modification refer to the less or greater 
quantity of clouds without changing the primitive form, but it is 
subject to great error in practice without being warranted in this 
by either the observation or the plates of Fitz Eoy. Finally, in 1863, 
I proposed to the Academy of Sciences of Paris the determination of 
the new types, which I have named pallium {pallio-cirrus and pallio- 
Gumulus) and fracto-cumulus, the description of which will be found 
farther on.^ When one considers the imperfection of Howard's old 
classification, the difficulties of distinguishing each stratum of clouds, 

* Forster. — Untersucliungeu ilber die Wolken nud andere Erscheiuungen in der 
Atmosphilre, Aus. d. Franz, 2. Anflage, Leipzig, 1819 ; Researches about Atmospheric 
Phajnomena, London, 1815, 2d edition, pp. 1-113; id., London, 1823, 3d edition, pp. 1-113. 

t MuLLER.— Gilbert's Annalen der Physili, 1817, vol. Iv, p. 102; Bibliothi^quo univer- 
selle do Gdn^ve, 1817, vol. v, pp. 6-12. 

X Kamtz.— Lohrbuch der Meteorologie, Leipzig, 1831, vol. i, p. 377 ; Vorlesnngen liber 
Meteorologie, Halle, 1840 ; id., translated by Ch. Martins, Paris, 1843, p. 115, pi. iii. 

§ Jesons.— Philosophical Magazine, 1857, vol. xiv, pp. 22-35 ; 1858, vol. xv, pp. 241-255. 

II FiTZ-RoY.— The Weather Book, London, 1863, p. 391, pi. ix, x. 

IT PoliY. — Sur deux nouveaux types de nuages observ6s a la Ha vane, denomm6s pal- 
lium (pallio-cirrus et pallio-cumulus) et fracto-cumulus— Comptes-rcndus de l'Acad6inie 
'ties Sciences de Paris, 1863, vol. Ivi., p. 361 ; Annuaire de la Socidtd Metdorologiquc de 
France, 1863, vol. xi, iJ. 53. 



CLOUDS. 435 

with their corresponding elements, and esi^ecially the considerable 
length of time that an observatory must spend in making a good obser- 
vation, according to our x)resent faulty method, we are less .surprised 
at the little progress that a study so interesting has hitherto made. I 
must add an important fact, which has passed completely unnoticed : that 
the classification of Howard also is faulty in the definition of stratus 
and nimbus. Kiimtz's treatise on meteorology gives the following defi- 
nition of stratus, which has been since blindly adopted by all meteor- 
ologists : " It is a horizontal hand, formed at sunset and disappearing 
at sunrise." On the contrary, Howard's definition has alvrays been that 
the stratus '•' is the lowest of clouds, since its inferior surface commonly 
rests on the earth or water ; this is properly the cloud of the night, the 
time of its first appearance being about sunset. It comprehends all 
those creeping viists which, in calm evenings, ascend in spreading 
sheets (like an inundation) from the bottom of valleys and the surface 
of lakes, rivers, and other pieces of water to cover the surrounding 
country." In continuation, Kiimtz, describing the cirrono- stratus, re- 
marks that "these clouds form horizontal strata, which, at the zenith, 
seem composed of a great number of thin clouds, while at the horizon, 
where we perceive the vertical projection, we see a long and very narrow 
band." Thus for the stratus we have a horizontal band, and for the 
cirro-stratus at the horizon another band, long and very narrorc. Accord- 
ing to this savant, between these two bauds there is no distinctive mark 
save the hour at which they appear. But as the bands cirro-stratus are 
frequent exactly at the rising or setting of the sun, it is very difficult to 
distinguish these two orders of clouds. It must be added that the cirrus 
and the cirro-cumuhis show a tendency to dispose themselves in bands 
parallel with each other, which at the horizon may be equally confounded 
with those of stratus and cirro-stratus. As to the origin of the stratus 
can we, without confusion, give the name of cloud to a phenomenon 
already designated as onist f The sole connection which exists between 
a cloud and a mist is in the first iDrecipitation of vapor of water in the 
atmosphere, and its greater or less condensation. It is when the mist 
is elevated to the region of inferior clouds that it is condensed under the 
form of a cumulus, and the visible vapor of water takes its first forms. 
Hitherto the mist was but a shapeless mass of vapor molded, so to 
speak, by the accidents of the earth and sheets of water, and following 
the permanent or transient outlines of these surfaces. It seems that 
Howard's first error was calling a mist a cloud, and the grave responsi- 
bility rests upon his successors of giving the mist of this writer as a 
true cloud under the form of a liorizontal hand. This error has been 
extended to the different plates published in 1815 by Forster, in which, 
nevertheless, the stratus is not given as a band, but rather as a mist 
raised at the horizon. But this representation is equally faulty, as it 
gives no idea of a mist covering the surface of the earth. As early as 
1820, in Braude's* work, i\\Q stratus appeared as forming a liorizontal 
^.BRjVNDES.^^Untersucliungen zur Witterungskunde. Leipzig, 1820, p. 385. 



436 METEOROLOGY. 

band, which v/as reproduced by Kiirntz iu 1840, and by Schiibler* in 
his four splendid engraved plates in 1849. In fine, the jjlates which 
were i)j,iblished by the Smithsonian Institution t at Washington, and 
in 1859 by tbe chart department of the French minister of marine,! 
to serve as instructions for seamen and observers, were reproductions 
of those of Kiirntz. The French edition alone contained two plates, 
of which the first embraced the simple forms of clouds, cirrus, stratus, 
cumulus, and nimbus, and the second the compound forms, cirro-cumu- 
lus, cirro-stratus, and cum ulo- stratus, with four variable cirri. Howard's 
Plate VI, on the contrary", published in 1803 for the first time, in Tilloch's 
Philosophical Magazine, represents the stratus as a, mist spreading above 
a lake surrounded by hills. Thus far in relation to the erroneous inter- 
pretation given to Howard's stratus. We now proceed to note another 
error hitherto propagated, relative to the nimbus. In the first place, 
Kamtz's definition, which all the late meteorologists have adopted, is 
as follows : When the cumulus is piled up and becomes more dense it 
passes to the state cumulo-stratus, which often takes at the horizon a 
black or bluish tint and passes to the state of nimbus, or rain-cloud. 
This is distinguished by its uniform gray tint and its broken edges, the 
clouds which compose it being so much confounded that it is impossible 
to distinguish them. Thus the single primordial and distinctive char- 
acter which results from this definition is that of a rain-cloud, and there- 
fore we shall call every rain-cloud nimbus, as has been done to the present 
time. Its secondary characteristics are : 1st, a tint of uniform gray ', 
2d, its edges broken ; 3d, confusion of all the clouds of which it is com- 
posed. All this gives no idea of the most essential element, namely, 
the real form of the rain-cloud. Though the definition of Kiirntz, and 
other writers, is not that of Howard, this observer has not given one 
more intelligible and exact. We see that he unconsciously felt the 
formation of rain-cloud, but was not very settled in his description. I 
am speaking of the double suj)erj)osed stratum, the inferior formed of 
cumulus, which it designates, and the second superior stratum of cirrus, 
whose existence was vaguely felt by Howard. The remainder of his 
definition is cumulus cirro-stratus vcl nimhus def. nubes vel ombium con- 
fjerieo fsupernc cirrata) pluvian cffundens. A cloud or system of clouds 
from which rain is falling is called a rain-cloud. It is a horizontal sheet, 
above which the cirrus spreads, while the cumulus enters in laterally 
and from beneath. In other isolated passages of his long description 
of the nimbus, the idea of this double stratum appears yet more plainly. 
" Clouds, in any one of the preceding modifications, may increase so as 
completely to obscure the sky. Before this eifect takes place there ex- 
ists, at a greater altitude, a thin, light veil, or at least a hazy turbidness. 

* ScHUBLER. — Grundsiitze der Metsorologie, Leipzig, 1849. 
t Smithsokian Institution, Washiugton, D. C. 

X ViVXEECHOUT. — Freucli translatiou of tlio " Explauatious aud Sailing Directions of 
Lieutenant Maury," Paris, 1S59, 4to. 



CLOUDS. 437 

When this lias considerably increased we see the lower clouds spread 
themselves till they liuite in all x)oints and form one uniform sheet. It 
will rain during this state of the two strata of clouds, one passing be- 
neath the other and each continually tending to horizontal, uniform dif- 
fusion, (the superior stratum is often seen in this case to i)artake of cirrus,) 
although they should he separated by an interval of many hundred feet 
in elevation. The intermediate space on these occasions is not sni)posed 
to be at any time free from a conducting medium of different watery 
particles, enabling the opposite electricities to neutralize each other." 
Hence we see that this description of Howard's nimbus has no connec- 
tion with that given by Kilmtz and the late writers, of a cloud inter- 
mediate in form, which, according to the latter, is supposed to have the* 
property of producing rain. It is not the property of any cloud to \)X0- 
duce rain, but it is produced by the reunion by the electric action and 
reaction upon the aqueous vapor of two superposed strata of clouds, the 
superior being cirrus and the inferior cumulus. It is this latter cir- 
cumstance that Howard has neglected to properly establish. All the 
plates which have been published, not excepting that of Howard, give 
no idea of this double stratum which constitutes the rain-cloud, that 
is, the nimbus of Howard, or properly my pallium, (imMo -cirrus and 
pallio-cumulus.) I now proceed to point out the error equally inherent 
in the three orders of clouds denominated cumidus, cumulo-straius, 
and strato-cumulus, and to show that they can all be reduced to 
the second type of cumulus. I remark, in th'e first place, a great 
confusion, or it may be a great similitude, between the cumulus 
and the ctimulo-stratus ; afterward I observe in the sky other cumuli, 
whose characters partake of more than these two types ; for example, 
M. Kiimtz's definitions, which are generally accepted. M. Kiimtz says : 
"The cumulus is often seen in the form of a hemisphere, reposing upon a 
horizontal base. Sometimes these hemispheres are piled one upon the 
other, forming those great clouds accumulated at the horizon, which 
resemble at a distance mountains of snow." 

Now for the cumulo-stratus : "When the cumulus is x>iled up and 
becomes more dense, it passes to the state of cumulo-stratus, which often 
takes at the horizon a black or bluish tint and passes to the state of 
nimbus or rain-cloud." Thus, it is sufiicient that the cumulus be piled 
up and become more dense in order to be changed into cumulo-stratus, 
strikingly implying great development in the horizontal base, which is 
not mentioned, though it is one of the most essential characters of this 
type of clouds. While, on the other hand, this horizontal base is 
expressly pointed out in Kamtz's definition of cumulus. In a word, 
these fundamental points are found equally in the formation of cumulus 
and cumulo-stratus : 1st, a horizontal base ; 2d, a superior hemispherical 
dome; 3d, a formation by increase from below upward. The points of 
diflerence as to the cumulo-stratus rest upon the irregularity of the 
base of the convex summits, and the aggregation from below upward ; 



438 METEOROLOGY. 

upon the greater density, dark coloring, and semblance of their isolated 
masses to a monntain chain. These differences are so accidental and 
insignificant that Howard and Forster could not distinguish them 
in their definitions, and they are forced to aver that these characters 
were found here and there at such points that tliey were easily con- 
founded. We see there is no -reason to maintain a radical separation 
and a double denomination for two forms of clouds which are of the same 
kind and whose slight modifications are not even continued. It is 
therefore more exact to i)reserve the siogie denomination of cumulus for 
this second type, which embraces at once the two characteristic forms 
of cloud — on the one side the accumulation of hemispheres, and on the 
other the horizontal base, which are always inseparable. 

Let us now pass to Kiimtz's description of strato-cuimdus : "It is 
comj)osed of dense cloudy masses, round or extended, badly defined at 
the edges, which appear in the afternoon, increasing toward evening, 
until during the night the whole sky is completely covered, disappearing 
the next morning some hours before sunrise and finally replaced by the 
true cumulus. These strato-cumuU are composed of very dense versicular 
rapor, like the cumuli and cumulo-strati. They differ by their dependence 
on different hours of the day ; they have also some analogy with the 
strati by reason of their extension, but are distinguished by greater 
altitude; yet they approach the cumuli. In winter the strato-cumulus 
often covers the sky during entire weeks ; but as the sun approaches 
the zenith, his rays dissolve these clouds, the vapors rise, and the 
cumuli are formed." We find again in Kamtz's definition of strato- 
cumulus the same confusion as in Howard's description of cumulo-stratus, 
which I pointed out above. The terms "cloudy masses rounded^ ex- 
tended, or yet badly defined at the edges," embrace three expressions 
which are mutually exclusive, so that it is impossible to know the trne 
form of the cloud, for if the cloudy masses are rounded they are not 
extended in Kamtz's sense, and still less are their edges badly defined. 
As to the physical constitution of the strato-cumulus, it is the same, 
according to Kiimtz, as that of cumulus and cumulo-stratus, that is to 
say, composed of very dense versicular vapor. 

In fine, "the strato-cumulus a\}]}Yoa.ch.Qs the stratus by its exterior, but 
is separated from it by greater altitude." I have already said that we 
can comjiare the stratus-mist with no other form of cloud. Hence no- 
thing remains but the hour of the appearance and disappearance of the 
strato-cumulus, (which seems to be the fundamental distinction Kamtz 
wished to establish,) to separate them from the cumulus and cumulo- 
stratus, added to their continuance in winter for whole weeks at a time. 
In a word, the strato-cumiiU, with Kiimtz, are the clouds of the night 
and of winter, predominating during the absence of the solar rays, and 
dissolved on the appearance of the sun. On this latter circumstance, 
we remark that the distinction of clouds of the night made by Kiimtz 
and Howard appears to have no foundation ; I have never been able 



CLOUDS. 439 

to perceive them. So true is this, that these two savants are nowise 
agreed upon this point, which has given rise to the new variety of Kiimtz. 
With Kiimtz, the cloud of night is the strato-cumulus, while with How- 
ard it is the stratus. On the other hand, since the stnitus is not a true 
cloud according to Howard himself, but simply a mist or hoar-frost, the 
distinction between the cloud of night and the cloud of day must be- 
come wholly sui)erlluous. I will close this proof of the non-existence of 
strato-cumulus by reminding the reader that Kiimtz himself told me 
before his death, without discussion, that he no longer attached any im- 
portance to his cloud of night, and authorized me to erase it from the 
nomenclature of Howard. In the exposition of my new classification of 
clouds, published in 1855, in the Annual of the Meteorological Society of 
France^ while pointing out the identitj^ of the cumulus and cumulo-stratus, 
I retained both these determinations, because the term cumulus did not 
designate its i)eculiar cloud-type as well as cumulo-stratus. But, as cumu- 
lo-stratus is derived from two species of clouds, it is i^referable to keep 
the generic name of c««/M(Zzts for the two identical clouds described by 
Howard, attributing to them the character given above. 

DEFINITION OP CLOUDS. 

Every country, according to its geographical position, topography, &c., 
has its own type of clouds. Here the cirrus predominates 5 there the 
cumulus. All these different appearances of clouds are everywhere in- 
timately connected with some particular condition of climate, which 
powerfully influences health, agriculture, navigation, and a thousand 
other objects of importance to humanity. They show us at e^'ery in- 
stant the direction, the velocity, and the altitude of the superior cur- 
rents which afterward determine the winds at the surface of the earth. 
We may regard the clouds as a weathercock in the sky, constantly indi- 
cating changes so long as a single one, however small, exists, and there- 
fore a profound gtudy of them, in their diverse, scientific, and social ap- 
plications, becomes of high importance. For this we should consider 
their natnre, form, quantity, direction, velocity, and azimuthal rotation. 

Despite the scientific interest and the practical value which is attached 
to this subject, the study of clouds is unhappily in its infancy. It is rarely 
we find clouds included in the meteorological registers, and when they 
are so the characteristics above mentioned are omitted. Some observers 
simply write " clouds; " others denote the form, or, it may be, the quantity, 
the direction, or perhaps all these three elements, but neglect the velocity, 
and especially the azimuthal rotation to which I was the first to call 
attention and which is not yet understood. 

We now proceed to present the basis of a new classification more in 
harmony with the actual facts of the science, and which is the fruit of 
twenty years' assiduous study of clouds in the Antilles, Mexico, the 
United States, and Europe. From the beginning of my meteorological 
investigations in the tropics, where the entire phenomena of the atmo- 



440 METEOROLOGY. 

sphere assume a cTiaracter of simplicity niiknowii in higher latitudes, I 
have more and more felt the necessity of a reform of Howard's nom- 
enclature. I was unable to understand his straius, nimbus, cumulo- 
sfraius, and strato-cuniulus. It was not until I had an opportunity to 
consult Howard's original work that I perceived the errors into which 
Kiimtz and other meteorologists had fallen. I had then to introduce 
into Howard's classification the modifications which the continued prog- 
ress of meteorology requires, in order that the nomenclature may 
be more in harmony with our advances in this line. I acknowledge 
with pleasure that Howard's classification, which has existed without a 
rival for more than half a century, was originally based upon profound 
study, directed by great acuteness of observation ; unhapi^ily, however, 
it is too plainly stamped by the locality where his studies were prose- 
cuted. I refer to the gray and cloudy sky of Great Britain, whence 
result his sfrato-mist, his imperfect distinction of the two great strata 
cirrus and cumulus, or his nimhus, (the rain-cloud,) the difference which 
he has established between cumulus and cumulo-stratus, besides many 
other faulty details of description in relation to cirrus, cirro-stratus, and 
cirro-cumulus. 

I shall now proceed to give the derivation of my three new clouds. 
When certain clouds spread out uniformly over the whole face of the 
heavens and assume a gray or ash color, under which state rain may 
occur for hours or wdiole days, what name do we give them? They are 
not Howard's nimbus, as we conceive them, and as they are generally 
described; they are neither stormy nor electrical ; they yield only a fine 
and continuous ra,in. Under this stratum we see constantly other clouds 
of more or less extent, but always isolated, becoming lost in it and 
increasing its thickness. But just before this stratum begins to break 
up, and during this operation, we see these same formless fragments 
detach themselves and fly to other regions. This inferior stratum is not 
alone; for when its disruption is completed we see through it another 
stratum of clouds, whiter and less dense, which breaks up in its turn, 
and ends by disappearing in an opposite direction to that of the inferior 
stratum. Have we a name for this variety of cloud so common in time 
of rain from the inter-tropical regions to high latitudes, especially in 
winter during the fall of snow? Does Howard's term nimhus and his 
description of it answer for its designation? Certainly not. We apply 
the name nimbus to the single storm-cloud, as well as to this inferior 
stratum, or to the united strata, and this without electrical manifesta- 
tions. To this cloud I give the name ])a]Uum. When the superior 
stratum is formed of cirrus it constitutes the iKtlUo-cirrus, and when the 
inferior stratum is formed of cuninlns it constitutes the imllio-cumulus. 
The fragments of clouds, which differ entirely from the cumulus or cumulo- 
stratus, are the fracto-cumuUcs. 

From what has been said, the necessity of distinguishing these two 
strata bj- different names is evident ; but this necessity results, more- 



CLOUDS. 441 

over, from llie fact that tbe stratum of cirrus is formed many liours, and 
even days, before that of mimulus, especially in the equatorial regions, 
and disappears after it. Without this distinction, we are obliged to call 
the first stratum oi the 2yttlUuni cirrus, and the second cuimdus; but as, 
under this state of strata, the form and i)hysical properties of cirrus and 
cumulus change completely, confusion and errors continually result. 

Eegarding Howard's classification as a whole, while retaining the two 
types of cirrus and cumulus, together with his two derivative clouds, 
cirro-stratus and cirro-cumulus, I reject entirely" his stratus, niuibus, and 
cumulo-stratus, as well as the strato-cumulus of Kiimtz, for the following 
reasons : The stratus,* because it is not (according to Howard) a cloud 
properly so called, but a mist, or lioar-frost, or the effect of optical illu- 
sion, a cirrus, cirro-stratus, or cirro-cumiihis, seen in perspective near the 
horizon; the nimhus, for the reason that the name is an inexact denom- 
ination applied to an idea as vague as it is incorrect from the moment 
that cumulus is not truly rainy, as far as it is found displayed, forming 
a stratum as dense in appearance and below a second superior stratum 
of cirrus, equally rainy; the cumulo-stratus, because it diifers in nothing 
from cumulus, according to Howard's own definition, these two forms 
Ijossessing in common the three fundamental characteristics of his cloud- 
types and their derivatives, namely, horizontal bases, superior hemi- 
spherical basins, and the ascending aggregation of their aqueous parti- 
cles ; and, lastly, strato-cumulus, (Kiimtz's cloud of night,) because this 
modifiCtation answers no better to clouds of night than Howard's stratus, 
and because its other characteristics correspond to cumulo-stratus. 

On the other hand, as I have said before, I substitute for Qiimhis the 
pallium, which I subdivide into ])allio-cirrus. and 2)allio-Gumulus, accord- 
ing as its stratum is composed of cirrus or ctimulus. This term has the 
triple advantage of embracing the character, the form, and the effect, as 
the cirrus or cum^dus forms the rainy stratum. I introduce, in fine, the 
definition of a second intermediate form, which can be rigorously distin- 
guished from the preceding by the double relation of cause and effect. 
This is the fracto-cumidus, fragments of cloud floating about without 
determined form. Before their transformation into cumulus, they are 
precipitated or detached from the inferior surface of. ^allio-cumidus, and 
are sj)read out in horizontal bands at the top of the cumidus on the ap- 
proach of gusts of wind. ThesQ fracto-cumuli differ from the cumulus 
in that they have neither the horizontal base nor the sui)erior hemi- 
spherical form, while they are not much extended ; but when they are 
a little more increased we see at once forming at the center of the frag- 
ment a space more dense and blackish than the rest, which gradually 
settles until it constitutes the horizontal base of the cumidus, (vcl cu- 

* In Howard's Plate YI, j)ublislied iu Tilloch's Philosoiikical Magazine, in 1803, he rep- 
resents tliis cloud as a mist spreading above a lake sui-rounded by hills. All succeeding 
meteorologists have misunderstood this plate, and given the siraius as a baud spread 
out at the horizon. 



442 METEOROLOGY. 

tnulo-stratus^) the upper part becoming roimded by degrees. Thus the 
fracto-cumuliis is the iufancy of the cumulus, other^vise called cumulo- 
stratus, the terms being syuouj-mons. 

This ud'w classiiicatiou is ^vholiy based upou the nature, the form, the 
quantity, tlie direction, the vclocitij, and azimuthal rotation of the clouds 
of each stratum, fully characterized hy the origin, intimate constitution, 
and meteoric products of the vesicular vapors and congealed particles 
which constitute them ; for, in the intimate nature of clouds, there is 
one fundamental condition to be established, depending upou the phy- 
sical force which first acts upon their constitution: it is the element of 
heat. Clouds are therefore distinguished into snow-clouds and ice-clouds, 
of which the constituent particles are more or less congealed; then into 
clouds of aqueous vapor, of which the vesicles, empty or full, float in a 
medium above the freezing-point. 

Under this fundamental aspect, there are but two types of cloiuls, 
properly so called, the cirrus and the cumulus. To the cirrus are attached 
three transitional forms, the cirro-stratus, cirro-cumulus, andpalUo-cirrus ; 
and to the cumulus, two other transitional forms, the paUio-cumulus and 
the fracto-cumulus. 

The following is a table of my new classification of clouds compared 
with that of Howard : 

NOMEKCLATUKE OF HOWARD. 

First typo Cirrus. 

„ . , . ( Cirro-stratus. 

Derivatives .. .. { 

(. Cirro-cumulus. 

SccoucI type Cumulus. 

Derivatives Cumulo-stratus. 

Third tyi)o Stratus. 

Derived from tlie three types.. Nimbus. 

NEW NOMENCLATUr.E OF POiCY. 

First typo Cirrus ^ 

f Cirro-stratus 

T^ . ,. ; ^,. . > Ice clouds; snow clouds. 

Derivatives < Cirro-cumulus ! ' 

I^Pallio-cirrus J 

Second type Cumulus \ 

T^ . ,. S Pallio-cumulus }• Clouds of an ueous vapor. 

Derivatives < i 

i Fracto-cumulus .... ' 

The nomenclature I have adopted appears more in accordance with 
the nature of clouds, for this reason, that the two types, cirrus and cumu- 
lus, are strictly based upon the constitution of ice and snow clouds and 
of clouds of aqueous vapor ; while there is no proof of the existence of 
Howard's third type, since, according to this savant, it is a onist which 
overspreads the earth at sunset, but is raised in the morning at the first 
appearance of the sun. My nomenclature offers the same number of 
cloud forms ; that is to say, seven, two types and five derivatives. 

The order in which the clouds are placed in my table corresponds at 
the same time to the order of their. ai^pjearance, from the highest regions 



.'•, Y 




fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiBiiiisiiiBiiSiimiiiPjiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiilil^ 






lusinm 



i: 



liiuiiiiailiiiliiliiiiiSiiiiiililliiiiiiaiililiiliilliiii^ , viJSiiisiiitoSiai&i^idiiiiiiK iiiiiiiMiiiiBiiiiiie :*i;i 



I'liv.m 



Ilillllilllllllllllllllllllllllll! 









CO 



IBii! 




lil!H' 






[i!iiiiiiiiBiiiiii!iniiiiiiiiii;umi|i;i!iii!:iiiii.iii:ii',iiii[iiiiiiiii!iiiMiyiiiiiiii'niiiiii!ii 



iiiia)i!iiiiiij!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiaii!iiiinn!iiii!ii:iiiii'iii:iii, :!.tMi'iiililJ.i.,.!liliiiil> 




CLOUDS. 443 

of the cirrus down to those nearest the earth where the fracto-cumulus 
is produced, as the vapor of water passes from the state of frozen par- 
ticles to that of aqueous globules, or vice versa. However, the pallio- 
cunndus, which serves as a transition from the two types and their deri- 
vatives, is found a little more elevated than the cumulus. 

I have thought it proper to modify Forster's nomenclature hy substi- 
tuting names more in harmony with the form and nature of clouds. I 
give, in continuation, the old and the new classification : 

Forster's nomenclatm-e. Poey'8 nomenclature. 

Cirrus Ctfj-Z-cloud Curl-cloud. 

Cirro-stratus Tr«»e-cloud. Thread-cloud. 

Cirro-cumulus Sonder-cloud - Curdled-cloud. 

Pallio-cirrus *S/ice<-cloucl. 

Cumulus Staclcn-cloud Mount-cloud. 

Pallio-cumulus Eain-cloud. 

Fracto-cumulus TTiJifZ-cloud. 

With the exception of cirrus, whose name c?«r^cloud approaches near- 
est the form of that cloud, ail the determinations have been changed. 
Tho, ])aUio-cu)nulus replaces the nimbus, also named rain-clond. ' 

I. — CiRKus, (Howard.) 

Curl-cloud — cirrus, so named by Howard, (the "cafs-tail" of sailors, 
illustration Ko. I, figs. 1, 2,) is composed of filaments which resemble a 
twisted tuft of curled hair, (illustration No. I, figs. 3, 4,) plumage, (fig. 
5,) the flowing tail of a horse, (illustration liso. 11, fig. 0,) or a fine pencil, 
(illustration E"o. HI, fig. 7;) at other times are disposed in long, straight 
bands, parallel to each other, or divergent, palmated, or like a herring- 
bone or vertebral column, (illustration j^o. TV, fig. 8,) their greater axis 
oriented according to the sailing of the cloud and the direction of the wind 
at that altitude, which soon makes itself felt at the surface of the earth. 
When it forms two or more systems of straight, parallel bands, by an 
effect of perspective they appear to diverge from their point of depart- 
ure at the horizon, and to converge toward the point of the horizon op- 
posite, as do the rays of the rising and setting sun. 

The cirrus is always white — sometimes brilliant, sometimes pearly- 
dull. The earliest and latest reflections of the solar rays upon these 
clouds color them with a delicate rosy tint, more or less intense, accords 
iug to their density. Their movement is exceedingly slow, and their 
altitude is not less than 10,000 yards, (more than six and a quarter 
miles.) These clouds are the highest, apparently, slowest, most rarified, 
most variable in their forms, and the most extended. The appearance 
or disappearance of cirrus i3roclaims the end or the commencement of 
good weather. The barometer sinks and then rises, all the accompany- 
ing meteorological iflienomeua undergoing a similar change. We quote 
from Howard: 

They are first iudicatcd by a few threads penciled, as it were, on the sky. These in- 
crease in length, and new ones are iu tlic mean time added to them. Often the first- 
formed threads serv.e as stems to support numerous branches, which in thein.turn give 



444 METEOROLOGY. 

rise to others. The increase is sometimes perfectly indeterminate ; at others, it has a 
very decided direction. Thus the first few threads l)eing once formed, the remain dei 
"will be propagated in one or more directions laterally, or obliquely upward or down- 
ward, the dii-ection being often the same in a great number of clouds visible at the 
same time ; for the oblique, descending tufts appear to converge toward a point in the 
horizon, and the long, straight streaks. to meet in opposite iJoints therein; which is 
the optical effect of ]iarallel extension. The upward direction of the fibers or tufts of 
this cloud is found to bo a decided indication of rain; the downward as decidedly indi- 
cates fair weather. Their duration is uncertain, varying from a few minutes after the 
first appearance to an extent of many hours, and even days. It is long when they 
appear alone and at great heights, and shorter when they are formed lower and in the 
vicinity of other clouds. This modification, although in appearance almost motionless, 
is intimately connected with the variable motions of the atmo.sphere. Considering 
that clouds of this kind have long been deemed a prognostic of wind, it is extraordi- 
nary that the nature of this connection should not have been more studied, as the 
knowledge of it might have been x)roductive of useful results. In fair weather, with 
light, variable breezes, the sky is seldom quite clear of small groups of the oblique 
cirrus, which frequently come on from the leeward, and the direction of their increase 
is to windward. Continued ivet weather is attended with horizontal sheets of this 
cloud, which subside quickly and pass into the cii'ro-strafus. Before storms they ap- 
pear lower and denser, and usually in the quarter opposite to that from which the 
storm arises. Steady, high winds are also xireceded and attended by streaks running 
across the sky in the direction they blow in. 

II. — Cirro-stratus, (Howard.) 

Thread-cloud, (illustrations jSTos. Y and VI.) — Howard's cirro-sfrafus is 
distiug-uislied from tlie pure cirrus by its filaments being- smaller, more 
compact, more ramified, and, so to say, completely stratified. They are 
lower and more dense, for the sun's rays often pierce them with difficulty. 
Their whitish tint is clearer, and it becomes rose-color in similar circum- 
stances. Their motion is a little m ore rai:)id. When at the horizon, we only 
seeing the vertical projection, they take the appearance of a long and very 
narrow band. According to Howard, " this cloud appears to result from 
the subsidence of the fibers of the cirrus to a horizontal position, at the 
same time that they approach each other laterally. The form and rela- 
tive position, when seen in the distance, frequently give the idea of 
shoals of fish. Yet in this, as in other instances, the structtire must be 
attended to rather than the form, which varies mucb, presenting at 
times the appearance of parallel bars, or interwoven streaks like the 
grain of polished wood. It is thick in the middle, and attenuated 
toward the edge. The distinct appearance of a cirnts, however, does 
not always i>reccde the i^roduction of this and the last modification. 
The cirro-stratus precedes loind and rain, the near or distant apj)roach 
of which may sometimes be estimated from its greater or less abund- 
ance and permanence. It is almost always to be seen in the inter- 
vals of storms. Sometimes this and the cirro-cumulus appear together 
in the sky, and even alternate with each other in the same cloud, when 
the different evolutions which ensue are a curious spectacle ; and a judg- 
ment may be formed of the weather likely to ensue by observing which 
modification finally prevails. ,^Th.e cirro-stratus is the modification which 



tl( 


{J:W - 








■1:11 J 




II 




'i"ii 










i'liii i 1 


1 1 








1 

1 






. 




•Ml ' 

.iMiililiiiiiili ill |i;| 


l| 

'Vi':!| 
'■•%PI 


1 

! 


t 

1 


i 


i 


rr ' 








-**':';'''''™:" " ' ':';|":''/- 


m 




ilf 1, 


pi ' 








■''3il!l:;i:i,,:. 








•1' I 


m 










i! 








1 ' 








'■;::' Vi: 


flif 


1 


1 


Kil 


iiri 

liiii. 




iiiiii ■ hi 


I'iiiiiKI 

I'Jiiiiiiiiiil i,!«;!if*ai ^^^k9»; 


1 i ml 11 


! 


1 i 


ni;! 


:ni| ,;;'■' 


■'litl'^'' 


■ 1 


m ^ 




:' 


-^SpS^ .-'i-j 




ii' , 1 




V Ii ^^: ::: 


4i 






a^^' ;;;; 


(I 
1 1 


ilh i 
1 ii ' 1 


1 




-nil 1 


1 

■III 




^Rlll 




1 i 

1 

1 i 


i 


tel.: , : ; i,i- 









|:w™illli|!l|i!lll!!!«'^";iil|!!«^ 




,:;ii;ir|ii','iril'P||i| 



iJlitM^^^^^^^ 



iPif!' ?' ii| 



:il!!iiiI!!ll!!llilllll!li!ll!!lll!liil'Jilg;i'!l;i 



i'i:::iiiii,'.,i„:,„,i!r!i™ ""II ■ 

'111. 'Ill ' ..'"'lllilll'I'l'' ,vr ■ 

,,'ll'l .'"" "Illllll iin„„ Ill' ' 

111 "'"I ■'ii''ii'i;!;'''''«iiiii|li!' '1 ' 
™l;;" ii, ;,iiiii II "11" , ri 






vliihN 



'^IIIIH^^^^^^^^ 



il!!!! li '"iiiii, i«™'] 'iiii:;: 

II !! 






ISillii!'! 
';!lilil|k:M:ri,ri 






I 'ii 



'■:|i|il 



<i!iilillliiillillilillhi:!il!!''''!ii£ 



wmirm.. 



ill|i!fi^|ii1li|i!i!!l!l!!!!ilili!ilil!l!i!l!i'l|:ilO 

mMi' ' ^ ■ ' ' '"'' P^ '"' '' f -m 






I 



:i''':ii;iiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiii!ifl>;; ,,,,, '"''ii'i liiiiiii I iiliiliiii!-c:; 



ml 






,^ii'i-i. T? 'lull 

' 'HI ;"'^""'"iii'"'i ill 






"'■iiii:' 
...111 'I 




i'i|''M''l'1''«^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 



m\ I ■■ ■'•'''■"'11 'i''''-'^:' '''^^ ■',„;■■ ,.ir:iii' ,, m U' ' W 

Kli*ri-:iif™' '' 



m0i $ms^ e; m H Ufys 



liiiiiiilliiiiiiiiiiiiii;!i!iiii!ii!'!;:lliiiliiiiiiill^ 



iiiiiiiiiilii 




CLOUDS. 445 

most frequently exhibits the plienomeDaof the solar and lunar halo, and 
(as inferred from a few observations) also the parhelion and paraselene. 
Hence the reason of the prognostic of foul weather, commonly drawn 
from the appearance of halo. The frequent appearance of halo in this 
cloud may be attributed to its possessing great extent at such times 
with little perpendicular depth, and the requisite continuity of substance. 
This modihcation is, on this account, peculiarly worthy of investiga- 
tion." 

III. — ClREO-CUMULUS, (HOWAKD.) 

Curdled cloud, (illustrations ISTos. YII andVIIT.) — It is sufficient that the 
cirro-stratus sinks a little, or that the temperature of the region it occu- 
pies be slightly elevated, in order to give birth to Howard's cirro-cumu- 
lus. In the first place, the axes of the stricc grow round; theu, by de- 
grees, the entire stratification becomes so, until it resembles carded cot- 
ton, which we call frizzled clouds or curdled shy ; in French, when it is 
completely covered, moutonnes ov immmele ; in Spanish, ciclo empcdrado. 
On the contrary, if the cirro-cumulus is elevated a little, or the tempera- 
ture is lowered, it returns to the type of cirro-stratus. 

The cirro-cumulus is more dense and lower than the cirro-stratus, from 
which it is derived, though generally the edges of the small accumula- 
tions or of the entire mass of cloud are transformed into cirro-stratus, 
wherever, from a greater elevation or a lower temperature, the congela- 
tion is more vigorous. Its motion is also more rapid, its color slightly 
grayish, and it may be tinged rose-color or rather reddish. 

The cirro-stratus, and especially the cirro-cumulus, is remarkable from 
a characteristic of the highest importance, which has escaped the sagacity 
of Howard and his successors, viz, the distribution of congealed aqueous 
vapor. It exists in the most fantastical combinations, reproducing all the 
formations of our continents and seas. Here, a deep bay with promon- 
tories, capes, x)eninsulas, isthmuses, &c.; there, a river, brooks, lakes, 
&c.; farther on vast continents and open seas. The outlines and the 
entire mass of each of these are besprinkled with cirro-cumulus, some- 
times edged with cirro-stratus, whose volumes of little balls diminish and 
vanish from center to circumference, while in the emjity spaces is 
the -purest azure of the heavens. (Plate.) Should it be a lake, the 
water will be represented by the blue sky, and terra firma by the cirro- 
cumulus which surrounds it. By carefully studying all these transfor- 
mations, we can observe in them a striking analogy to the phenomena 
of the precipitation and congelation of dew. There must be at this 
altitude, in the same stratum, one above the other, portions of the atmo- 
sphere having different degrees of density and of temperature, in order 
that the congelation of aqueous vapor should take place in so variable 
a manner. 

The influence of cirro-cumulus upon the temperature at the surface of 
the earth is so marked that the human body feels it at once. A curdled 
sky at the new moon, on a calm night in the tropics, is a sky compara- 



446 METEOROLOGY. 

tivcly glacial, an effect probably due to the uearuess and the qaantity 
of snow wliich compose this type of cloud. 

The cirrus being much more elevated and the cirro-stratus much less 
abundant, although both formed of glacial aiglets, have not the same 
influence on terrestrial temperature. According to Howard, the cirro- 
cumulus is formed from a cirrus, or a number of small separate cirrus 
by the fibers collapsing, as it were, and passing into small, roundish 
masses, in which the texture of the cirrus is no longer discernible, 
although they still retain somewhat of their relative arrangement. Tliis 
change takes place either throughout the whole mass at once, or i^ro- 
gressively from one extremity to tlie other. In either case the same 
effect is produced on a number of adjacent cirri at the same time and 
in the same order. It ai^pears in some instances to be accelerated by 
the approach of other clouds. . This modification forms a very beautiful 
sky, sometimes exhibiting numerous distinct beds of these small con- 
nected clouds, floating at different altitudes. The cirro-cumulus is 
frequently seen in summer, and is attendant on warm and dry weather. 
It is also occasionally and more sparingly seen in the intervals of showers 
and in winter. It may either evaporate or pass to the cirrus or cirro- 
straiiis. 

IV. — Pallium, (PoiiY,) (vel nimMs, Howard.) 

Under the generic name of pallium I have classed two forms of cloud, 
which i)resent the appearance of a mantle or veil of considerable extent, 
of very compact texture, well defined at the edges, of excessively slow^ 
motion, and embracing the visible vault of the sky. As the pallium is 
formed of cirrus or of cumulus, it is distinguished into pallio-cirrus autl 
pallio-cumulus. The appearance of this cloud signalizes bad weather, 
and its disappearance, good weather. 

The stratum of pallio-cirrus is first produced, and some hours or days 
afterward that of pallio-cumulus is formed under it. These two strata 
remain in view at a certain distance from each other, and in their recip- 
rocal action and reaction are accompanied with storms and heavy rains, 
and with considerable electric discharges. They are both electrified, 
but with contrary signs ; the superior stratum of cirrus is negative, and 
the inferior one of cumulus is positive, the same as the rain v>'hich is 
disengaged, while the electricity of the air, at the surlace of the earth, 
is negative. But when these two strata attract each other a discharge 
is produced, and the inferior stratum continues to pour out the surplus 
water it contained, without giving any sign of electricity, more than the 
air in contact with the earth. This state continues until the inferior 
stratum opens, afterward the superior, and then disappear, one after 
the other, fine weather succeeding. The pallium chiefly predominates 
during the rainy season, in tropical regions, and in the higher latitudes 
during winter, at the time of falls of suo\t. A part of the pallio-cumulus, 
which has not been reduced, or has not been scattered to other regions, 
gathers at the horizon, and is transformed into the cumulus. As to the 



IP"?' jiiiiiir''"'(^^ 



iii»f:il« 



111 5iiiiiP^^^^ 

ijiiiiiij 

!llP' 



m.i ^jg^iim 

wmms 

« f ('III 



Mlj 



>i..r, 



,rflil'""J 



£mMB 



1 y !f 



m-' 




jA\ I iJ|J ' 'Liv-a ''J 



\ 'J 

'Ill II 



f'i 



W'Kd' 



m-% 



,, ^»'i 



Jta-iiiiHii 



ill f v'l 



,1 fM J 



ik # I 

111 



"1 N 

,. .JH I, 



4 



m 

i km'. 



fill 



I ' ,„ pi ,, 



pplf ik % 

IfW 111,,,, II ill,., .'■ • ' 



fix ■<^: 



I if 









a 



'ill !,iiliilliiiiiliilliiiliiiiliiililll,i;liiiliiiiiiiilili;h^^^ 



CLOUDS. 447 

palUo-cirrus, it disappears entirely if fine weather is maintained. Let us 
now see wliat are the inherent characters of the Uyo])alUo. 

V. — Pallio-cireus, (PoiiiY.) 

^7icef-cZoi(cZ, (illustration No. IX,) — Thei^aZKo-cirrMs is formed by the accu- 
mulation of a cirro-cumulus, which is visibly sinking, or appears already 
formed toward a point of the horizon in the stratum, corresponding to this 
latter type. In the first case it is a little lower, more dense, less compact, 
more rapid in its movement, grayish, and often shows some traces of polari- 
zation. In the second case it is a little higher, less dense, more compact, 
less rapid, i)early whitish, impenetrable to the solar rays, and without a 
trace of polarization. In the two cases it appears generally in the south- 
westerly horizon, showing the presence of the superior equatorial cur- 
rent, and determining the fall of rain while it remains above and oppo- 
site the 2Killio-cumulus. When a breach is made in this inferior stratum 
it is speedily produced in that of the pallio-cirrus ; sometimes it has 
already been formed in the latter. After the rupture of this stratum, 
the jjalUo-cirrtis is transformed into cirro-cumulus, studded with cirro- 
straUis. On the approach of pallio-cirrus we observe tlie following me- 
teorological manifestations : the barometer falls, the thermometer rises, 
the relative humidity increases, the tension of vapor diminishes, and 
a little after the wind at the earth is felt from that direction. 

VI.— CUIMULUS, (vel CUMULO-STRATUS,) (HOWARD.) 

31ount-clou(l, (illustrations Nos. X andXI.) — Howard's cumulu s, [or cumu- 
lo-stratus,) summer and aqueous vesicle clouds, (the " cotton-balls" of sail- 
ors,) always appear in the form of a hemisphere or arcs of a circle, and repose 
upon a horizontal base. When these hemispheres are piled upon one an- 
other, there are formed great clouds accumulated atthe horizon, similar to 
mountains in the distance covered with snow. Their contours take many 
forms, human, animal, and of every kind, more or less hizarre and fan- 
tastic, which inspired the poet Ossian with his finest images, and have 
given rise in mountainous countries to many popular traditions. 

W^hen the cumuUis moves along the horizon, it is, excepting fracto- 
cumulus, the most rapid of all clouds. But when it is piled up along 
the horizon, in summer toward the south, in winter toward the north, 
it is excessively slow, and remains a whole day scarcely moving. It 
then extends perpendicularly or obliquely toward the zenith. Its 
roundish summit is of a glittering whiteness, and when elevated high 
enough, it is dyed rose color morning and evening like the cirrus. The 
center of the cloud is grayish, the base slate color or black. The base 
of the cumulus always rests upon the horizon, and is little elevated dur- 
ing a storm. It follows the direction of surface winds. Upon the pla- 
teau of the valley of Mexico, the cumulus completely disappears during 
the winter half of the year, and appears anew during the other six 
months. In summer it appears about eight or nine o'clock in the morn- 



448 METEOEOLOGY. 

ing. It attains its liigbest elevation from two to three o'clock in the af- 
ternoon, during the greatest heat, after which it fades away gradnally, 
and a little after sun-down disappears entirely behind the hills. Thus 
cumulus in Mexico is only visible in summer and during the day. How- 
ard says : 

Clouds in tliis inodificatioii are coiumoaly of the most dense structure ; tlioy are 
formed in the lower atmosphere and move along with the current which is nest the 
earth. A small, irregular spot first appears, and is, as it were, the jn/cZcits on which 
they increase. The lower surface continues iiTcgularly plane, while the upper rises 
into conical or hemispherical heaps, which may afterward continue long nearly of the 
same bulk or rapidly grow to the size of mountains. 

In the former case they are usually numerous and near together, in the latter few 
and distant; but whether there are few or many, their hascs lie always nearly in one 
horizontal plane ; and their increase upward is somewhat projiortiouate to the extent 
of base, and nearly alike in many that ai>pear at once. 

Their appearance, increase, and disax^pearance in fair weather are often periodical 
and keep pace with the temperature of the day. Thus they will begin to form some 
hours after sunrise, arrive at their maximum in the hottest iiart of the afternoon, then 
go on diminishing, and totally disperse about sunset. 

But in changeable weather they partake of the vicissitudes of the atmosphere; some- 
times evaiJorating almost as soon as formed ; at others suddenly forming and as quickly 
passing to the compound modifications. 

The cumulus affair weather has a moderate elevation and extent, and a well-defined, 
rounded surface. Previous to rain it increases more rai^idly, ai>pears lower in the 
atmosphere, and with its surface full of loose fleeces or x)rotuberances. 

The formation of large ciunulus to leeward in a strong wind indicates the approach 
of a calm with rain. When they do not disappear or subside about sunset, but con- 
tinue to rise, thunder is to bo expected in the night. 

Indexiendently of the beautj^ and magnificence it adds to the face of nature, the cumnlus 
serves to screen the earth from the direct rays of the sun; by its multiplied reflections 
to diftuse, and, as it were, economize the light, and also to convey the jiroduct of eva- 
Xjoration to a distance from the place of its origin. The relations of the cumulus with 
the state of the barometer, &c., have not yet been enough attended to. 

VII. — Pallio-cumulus, (Poey.) 

i^fliw-cZozff/, (illustration No. XII.) — Thejx<i/io-cj(WH?its is produced by the 
accumulation of Jracto-cumulus, which is gradually extended under the 
form of a uniform and compact stratum. This stratum is constantly sus- 
tained by the entrance of new fracto-cunmli, which increase its thickness 
until rain begins; then the/Vacto-cumwi^tts ceases to penetrate it, and passes 
along the stratum of. imllio-cumulus^ but before the end of the rain it is dis- 
engaged anew from the stratum, which grows thin, is broken up and dis- 
appears. TliQ, indlio-cumulus is lower, more dense, less compact, more 
rapid than the imllio-cirms^ and is slate-colored or grayish. The thicker 
and more compact this stratum is, the longer will the rain continue; 
but as soon as a breach is made, it disengages fragments of cumulus, 
{fracto-cumulus,) which rapidly disappear, while the remainder are piled 
up at the horizon in the form of cumulus. The pallio-cumulus appears 
almost always from the northeast, showing the inferior polar current, 
which soon reaches the surface of the earth. The meteorological mani- 
festations determined by them are inverse to those of fiallio-cirrus ; the 





giif 



tmmm 



mm 



iBIIIillllliaiUflti' M|,j|]i ''BSfflffla 



!';ilil!ll!!llll!!l|llllii! 



CLOUDS. 449 

barometer rises, the thermometer falls, the relative humidity dimin- 
ishes, aud the tension of aqueous vaijor increases. 

VIII. — Feacto-cumulus, (Poet.) 

Trm<?-cZow(7, (illustrations Kos. XIII and XIY.) — The clouds which I have 
denominated/mc^o-CMmwZt(s are isolated fragments of ctimulus, more or less 
considerable,without determinate form,jagged at the edges, the lowest and 
most rapid of all, and whitish, grayish, or slate-colored, according to their 
density. As soon as an invisil)le storm has broken out in the distance, we 
see them moving with great rapidity, almost grazing the highest buildings 
and tallest trees ; their borders are greatly torn and white, contrasting 
strongly with the grayish stratum of superior palUocuniuJiis. They are 
visible day and night, and often traverse the firmament from northeast 
to southwest without interruption for many days, while the sky above 
and in the intermediate space is perfectly clear. In winter we see them 
alone under a blue sky, sending in their passage to the zenith inter- 
rupted showers of rain, accompanied by strong gusts of wind, which 
occasion a very slight elevation and oscillation in the barometric column. 
In the Antilles these clouds produce the disagreeable winter rains, aud 
in Europe the March storms. They generally follow the direction of 
the wind i)revailing at the surface of the earth. When this wind is 
contrary to the direction of fracto-cumulus, it soon takes the same course. 

A little before a storm or tempest arises, there appear a series of very 
small fractO'CumuU, which move rapidly, almost to two-thirds of their 
height, along a considerable mass of cumulus^ which is stationed very 
often, as if immobile, near the southern horizon. Soon these fracto- 
cumuli become more abundant, less rapid, and form a horizontal band, 
which cuts the cumuli near their summit. This ajipearauce is a warning 
sign for sailors, as it announces a squall. In fact, the fracto-cumuli 
become more and more developed; an exchange of opposite electricities 
takes i)lace between them, and the storm quickly arises. It is, there- 
fore, the same little cloud, of which I have spoken above, that, returning 
then from the combat, comes now to offer new battle. The aggregation 
of fracto-cwniulus forms the ;paUio-cumulus, and increases and constantly 
maintains this stratum. 

:NATUEE of the clouds deduced FEOM THE FOEMA- 
TION OF HALOS, COEOXAS, AND EAINBOWS. 

We can further distinguish the nature of clouds by the optical pheno- 
mena to which they give rise, according as their intimate constitution 
is more or less connected with a certain degree of aqueous vapor, in the 
state of snowy or glacial congelations of the strata corresponding to the 
formation of each tyjie. The following are some facts which I have ob- 
served at Havana, which it is important to verify in other regions : 

Generally speaking, cirrus, more esi^ecisilly pallio-cirrus, gives rise to 
a large solar and lunar halo of 22c> radius. When it is produced by the 



450 METEOROLOGY. 

snii, it sometimes presents the seven colors of the spectrum, although 
usually there is only a single internal tint of orange, terminating at 
times in a little red. On the contrary, the great halo produced by the 
moon IS almost always white, and seldom exhibits the tint of orange 
without the r^d. 

The cirro-cumuli produce the lunar halo of about 2° to 4° radius, 
which may be triple or formed of sixteen prismatic rings with an inter- 
nal tint of red. This halo is still more brilliant when it takes place, 
rarely enough, with cirro-stratus. 

The fracto-cumuU are the only clouds which do not i^roduce halos, 
but they do produce complete coronas or segments of arcs, according 
to the extent of the fragments which traverse the lunar disk. These 
coronas are also prismatic, having a blue internal tint. 

The pallio-cumulus and the cumulus form neither halos nor coronas, 
but solar and lunar rainbows. In line, aqueous vapor extremely dis- 
solved, elastic, uniformly distributed in the higher regions of the atmo- 
sphere, without much altering tbe transparency of the air, gives rise to 
the formation of a little halo. Their unique coloration, in brown or rus- 
set, light or dark, as well as their size, is intimately connected either 
with the density of aqueous or elastic vapors or their altitude •, their 
dimensions may vary from the borders themselves of the lunar disk up 
to 2° radius. We find them in every lunation. 

QUANTITY OF CLOUDS. 

"We measure by the eye the blue vault of the sky, or the quantity of • 
visible clouds, which can then be determined according to a conven- 
tional scale in decimal fractions from zero (0) to unity, (1.) But it is 
preferable to take directly the quantity of clouds, and to repeat this 
calculation for each quadrant, upon each stratum and upon each type, 
instead of restricting ourselves to the ensemble of the sky, paying no 
attention to their nature, as has been hitherto everywhere done. 

Here is the mode of proceeding : We explore the first quadrant, 
and if we find three diiferent types of clouds — for example, the cirrus 
elevated, cumulus at the horizon, and fracto-cumtihis low and isolated — 
we judge one after the other, according to their extent in height and 
breadth, the space which they occupy relatively to the 90^ comprised 
from north to east, and from the horizon to the zenith of this quadrant. 
We then write for example in the corresponding columns 0.4 cirrus, 0.3 
cumulus, and 0.2 fracto-cumulus. If the quadrant examined is completely 
covered by a single cloud, we mark unity, (1,) and its corresponding 
type. If, on the contrary, there is no cloud, we place 0. We repeat in 
turn the same operation in the three other quadrants, from southeast, 
from southwest, and from northwest. 

At times the quantity of clouds associated with others of a different 
nature is so small, consisting merely of fragments, that it would be ex- 
tremely difficult to make a just calculation, and then we mark isolated 




i^lpi::!iti!iiiPi!iiii!'i;i!!f!i';:i^ 





;l!l'*''«^''f''l!l''''''7f^^^ 






iiiiiiiiiiiiaiiii 






''!>i''!:i '11 



A^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 






i! i 



S'S''"!:. 



'ill"'"' iii' ,„ 

: ]F^^^ 



' V'', ■,iii'' 



CLOUDS. 451 

cloud of the correspondiug type. During a continuous rain, Trlien tiie 
sky is completely covered with a palUo-cumuliis, we are sure to find above 
it a second stratum of pallio-eirrus, which occasions this rain. So after 
this examination we write in each quadrant unity for these two types. 
But as soon as a breach is made in the stratum of pallio-ciimulus, then 
care must be taken not to confound the quantity of cloud corresponding 
to each of these two strata, which are perceived one after the other. 
With a little attention we come perfectly to know each order of cloud 
and the space it occupies. 

DIRECTION OF THE CLOUDS. 

"We should note in another column the direction of each type of cloud 
corresponding to the first sixteen cardinal points of the comj)ass. For 
this purpose, we must observe the space whence the cloud sets out, and 
that of the opposite horizon, where it is lost. When the cloud tra- 
verses the zenithal region, the observation can be easily made. There is 
only a single ijosition which can give rise to error by an effect of per- 
spective, which takes place morning and evening, when the cumuli are 
not removed from the limits of the horizon, where they have a very slow 
march and disappear at the opposite side in the same parallel plane. 
AYe think then that a cloud freely sets from east to west, or vice versa, 
either by the north or by the south, when it has rather an inclination 
from northeast, fi'om northwest, from southeast, from southwest, or any 
other. If it is at sunrise or sunset, if the wind is from east to west, 
or if the vane remains stationary in one of these directions, we may be 
certain that the onmiulus pursues this horizontal course perpendicularly 
to the meridian. 

Often it is very difiicult to grasp the direction of cirrus, because of its 
extreme slowness, and the considerable quantity and great extent of its 
filaments, which are oriented on every side. The attention must be prin- 
cipally fixed upon the side of the disiilacement of the ridge or central 
trunk whence this multitude of bands and lateral filaments is detached. 
The march of cirrus is then almost always in a longitudinal plane or 
parallel to the longer axis. By a law of perspective, the parallel bands 
appear to diverge from a point of the horizon, and on the other hand to 
converge toward another point diametrically opposite ; but the observa- 
tion of the point of convergence on the opposite horizon will give the 
mode of orientation. 

There is another optical illusion, against which we must especially 
guard, in order not to commit a very grave error ; for it appears each 
time that below a stratum of superior and very slow cirrus, we perceive 
a second stratum of inferior and rapid cumulus. In this case the cirrus 
seems to march rapidly in the opposite direction to that of the cumulus, 
when, in reality, it is following the same path, but more slowly. It is 
an illusion analogous to that remarked in a railway carriage when the 
objects closer to us file rapidly past in a direction contrary to that of the 



452 METEOROLOGY. 

locomotivof while objects more removed, beyond the second plane, move 
in the same direction. We cannot caution observers too much aiiamst 
this error, especially when there are three or four strata of super^josed 
clouds, some having the same direction, and others opposite ones. 

Very often, also, the cirri are so slow that it must take many hours 
to comprehend their march. This extreme slowness contributes to a 
lateral movement perpendicular to their advance still more i)ronouuccd 
than tiiat of the cumulus or other types of clouds ; to this must be 
added their filamentous form and the great number of their ramifications. 
In this case the observer must take a bench-mark upon some elevated 
structure in the city or the summit of a mountain or top of a tree, verify- 
ing it from hour to hour, and if these precautions are not yet sufiicient, 
wait until the cirrus has passed the meridian or disappeared at the op- 
posite horizon. Generally, at the observatory at Havana, the direction 
of cirrus is definitely noted upon the register only in the afternoon, 
although it has appeared at five or six o'clock in the morning. 

When a cumulus is swelling up from a base below the horizon toward 
the zenith it presents the appearance of a motion which must be dis- 
tinguished from the true direction of the cloud. 

Cirrus, cirro-stratus, and cirro-cumulus come generally from the south- 
west, showing presence of the superior equatorial current. 

Cumulus, cumulo-stratus, and fracto-cumulus, on the contrary, appear 
toward the northeast, determining the inferior polar current. But the 
cumuli from June to December generally take a middle direction, from 
the east, under the influence of the northeast and southeast trade- winds, 
while the fracto-cumulus accompanies the polar current from the north- 
east, from December to May, when this last, going against the current 
from southeast of the southern hemisphere, draws near the equator and 
causes the trade-winds to descend from north to east-northeaf?t, or east. 

Moreover, the i^a/Zio-cirn^-'? and the pall io-cumulus serve alternately as 
a transition between these two opposite currents, the equatorial and jjolar, 
although the first type accompanies more frequently the superior cur- 
rent and the second the inferior current; so that these two pallia 
alternate in the.following order : 

Cirrus, ^ 

■Cirro-stratus, /• Superior equatorial current. 
Cirro-cumulus. J 
Pallio-cirrus. 
Pallio-cumulus. 

Cumuhis. ? Inferior polar current. 

Fracto-cumulus, ) 

TELOCITY OF CLOUDS. 

Our present uncertainty as to the velocity of clouds, the difficulties 
which are presented to a single observer, perhaps, deprived of sufficient 
knowledge or suitable instruments to undertake directly this calculation, 



CLOUDS. 453 

makes it only possible to determine it visually and approximately. As 
a general rule, clouds appear more rapid the nearer they are to the sur- 
face of the earth, and slower the farther they are removed from it. 
Therefore, the fracto-cumulus, which almost grazes the suiumits of. 
mountains and tops of trees, is more rapid; while the cirrus, wliich is 
found in the torrid zone with an altitude of at least 10,000 to ir»,000 
meters, (six and one-fourth to nine and three-eighths miles,) is the slow- 
est, seeing that it remains for hours at a time almost immovable. 

We adopt the four following terms: 8low,very slow, rapid, very rapid, 
which suJBfice to express, with sufficient exactness, all velocities of clouds, 
because there is no case where we need a more minute nomenclature. 
The absolute determinations, especially very rapid, being the most diffi- 
cult to seize, we must guard against makiug use of them before we are 
perfectly acquainted with the march of the cirrus, which loiters for 
hours, describing- a little arc, and that of the fracto-cumulits, which has 
variable velocities. But after a few appearances of clouds with high 
velocity, the observer will be able to judge them correctly. 

AZIMUTmVL EOTATIOX OF CLOUDS. 

In a note presented to the French Meteorological Society, May lOtli, 
1864, I showed, fi"om 280,320 observations made at the observatory of 
Havana, that the law of the rotation of winds formulated in 1827 by M. 
])ove is perfectly applicable to clouds, and it is this same rotary direc- 
tion which determines the rotation of the inferior winds, and modities 
all the meteorological phenomena ; in a word, that meteorology must be 
taken /rom above, according to the profound remarks of M. Biot, at the 
French Academy of Sciences. 

M. Dove's law of the change of winds may be thus recapitulated : 1. 
AYhen in the northern hemisphere, currents of air coming from the 
equator, alternate with polar currents, the wind makes the tour of the 
comjiass oftenest in the order south, west, north, east, and south. 2. In 
the southern hemisphere it is the reverse, south, east, north, west, and 
south. 3. The influence of the wind upon meteorological phenomena, 
combined with this law of its change, shows two parts of the compass, 
opposed in aU resjiects, the region of the east and that of the west, where 
the atmospheric variations offer a corresjjon deuce with the instruments, 
which it is easy to understand. We see, therefore, that this important 
law of M. Dove can assist us in scientific prevision, if we add M. Buys- 
Ballot's method of ecarts, which consists in taking the difference between 
the highest and lowest standing of the barometer, thermometer, &c. 

Now, if the change of clouds, from cirrus to fracto- cumulus — that is 
to say, from an altitude of at least 10,000 meters to the surface of the 
earth — really obeys the same law as the change of winds, then our pre- 
visions acquire a greater degree of certainty. 

In 18G3 the wind at Havana completed twenty- three rotations, con- 
jointly with cumulus ; these latter, twenty-five rotations ; cirro-cumulus 



454 METEOEOLOGY. 

eighteen, and cirrus, seventeen. Two rotations, from 29tli of June to 
lOtli of October, were not accompanied with those of the wind. 

Sometimes we find that all the strata of clouds, up to the cirrus, com- 
plete their rotation at the north on the same day and at the same hour. 
At other times, and these are the most numerous, the wind gains upon 
the cumuli, these on the cirro-cumuli, and these latter on cirri ; that is 
to say, from below upward instead of from above downward, as before 
their rotation. This fact seems to contradict the hypothesis that the su- 
perior currents determine gradually the inferior currents. This, how- 
ever, is owing to the fact that the currents are inclined, forming very 
nearly an angle of 45^ with the surface of the earth, so that they are 
first felt at a point more to the north, falling by degrees until they at- 
tain all the points of their journey toward the south, through which 
they have passed above, till their extinction naturally, or by the shock 
of opposite currents. This appearance of the inferior current before the 
superior is especially frequent in low regions. It is presented five 
times against four between the wind and cumulus, and four other times 
simultaneously. In the higher regions, six times to five, the cirro- 
cumulus appeared before the cirrus, and in three other cases at the same 
time. The cumuli, in their turn, gained eleven times against two upon 
the cirro-cumuli, and twice again they hajopeued at the same time. 

By reason of the opposition or inversion of temperature between land 
and sea, the wind tends toward the south in the evening, and in the 
morning toward the north. The influence of these local movements of 
the breeze is such, in the general circulation, that it may retard the 
rotation of the wind, which terminates at the north, not only many 
hours, but besides from 9(P to 180° in azimuth. The action of the sea- 
breeze seems to be more considerable than that of the land-breeze ; but 
the breezes are much less sensible upon the cumulus and cirro-cumulus, 
especially when these latter are elevated, and they do not seem to reach 
the region of the cirrus. The continuance of each rotation varied con- 
siderably in 1863, as follows : 

Days. Hrs. Days. Hrs. 

For tlio ci/Tus, from 5 5 to 49 11 

For the cirro-cumulus, from 3 8 to 62 5 

For the cwmw^HS, from 3 3 to 36 22 

For the wind, from 4 to 71 9 

The month of July did not present a single rotation of any of these 
four elements. It should be remarked that the greater number of the 
wind's rotations are accompanied by another rotation in the cumulus ; 
that those of cirro-cumulus are more rare and less corresponding with 
the first ; and that, in fine, those of cirrus are still further removed. It 
also appears that the rotations are less frequent in the higher regions 
than at the surface, and that the first of the cirrus, due to the equato- 
rial current, are borne rather to the west, and especially to the south- 
west ; while the second of the cumulus, arising from the i^olar current, 
are confined more to the region of the east, from north to southeast. 



CLOUDS. 455 

Whatever may be the regularity presented by the circulation of the 
winds, and of the clouds in the tropics, and whatever care, also, is 
taken in studying it, this circulation is not yet exempt from perturba- 
tions which mask a little the precise moment of the beginning and end 
of each rotation. The southeast trade-winds, and the configuration of 
the ground, are among the number of general disturbing causes ; while 
the land and sea breezes, the cloudiness of the stratum of cumulus, 
which is more or less time prolonged, and covers that of cirro-cumulus, 
or these latter that of cirrus, their inclination in space, and conse- 
quently their transformation accidental and sudden, constitute the local 
disturbing causes. 

I surmise, besides, the existence of great annual rotations produced 
by the earth's motion of translation in its orbit analogous to those pro- 
duced by the rotation of the earth on its axis, both classes of rotation 
belonging to each climate of the terrestrial zones, having regard to the 
distribution of continents and seas, and to their physical constitution. 
These annual rotations appear to commence and terminate at the north; 
for the cirrus in October, for the cirro-cumulus in November, for the 
cumulus in December, and for the wind in January. According to this, 
the superior current emi)loys a month in accomi^lishing its rotation fi'om 
stratum to stratum, continually approaching the siu'face of the earth, 
and three months in reaching it. 

Lieutenant Maury claims that the trade- winds are so constant and 
uniform that their direction no more changes than the current of the 
Mississippi. I do not share the opinion of this savant, for the observa- 
tions at Havana demonstrate, on the contrary, that the north trade- 
wind varies from northeast, and sometimes north- northeast, up to east- 
northeast, chiefly from December to May, the time at which the current, 
from the northern hemisphere appears to be stronger than that from 
the southern, and consequently it approaches the equator. In the sec- 
ond part of the year, from June to November, the south polar current, 
being more intense, drives back the first, and advances to the latitude 
of Havana, and ijrobably to the parallel of SO'^ north, the trade-wind 
then varying from east-northeast to southeast ; so the limit of the dis- 
placement in latitude of the trade-winds depends more particularly on 
the respective intensity of the i^olar currents of each hemisphere. We 
see, therefore, that the time of appearance which I have established for 
fracto-cumulus and cumulus seems to correspond with the displacement 
of the trade- winds. 

In fine, it is at the moment when the rotations of the wind and of 
cumulus correspond toward the southwest with that of the equatorial 
current that storms and great showers have generally taken i)lace, in 
presence of a compact stratum, and a condensation of superior pallio- 
cirrus, and another stratum of inferior palUo-cumulus. But as soon as 
the wind and the cumulus revolve to the west, the storm begins to clear 
off, and the barometer rises. W^hen these first two rotations terminate 



456 METEOROLOGY. 

at the north, the weather is completely reestablished. The stratum of 
imllio-cumidus opens up, is broken, and continues thus to chase from the 
southwest; then it revolves, in turn, toward the north, in order, 
later, to commence a new rotation. The second stratum of superior 
pallio-cirrus proceeds in like manner, and disappears also. 

Such are the principal facts concerning the azimuthal rotation of the 
winds and clouds, and, in general, of the diverse questions which have 
been treated in the course of these summary instructions, on which it 
is of the liighest importance to fix the attention of observers in all 
I^arts of the world. Indications analogous to those which the observa- 
tions made at the observatory of Havana have furnished us, should 
they be contradictory under identical latitudes, either by reason of the 
difference in longitude, or by the difference in the topography of the 
countries explored, will not be the less imi)ortant on this account, and 
they will conduct us to a true conception of atmosphenc circulation alto- 
gether, by putting us on the track of rational and scientific previsions. 



EVAPORATION AT PALERMO. 4'57 

OX THE EVAPORATION OBSERVED AT PALERMO Ix\ 1865 AXD 1860. 

By p. Tacchevi. 

\_ Translated for the Smitlisonian Institution from the Meteorological Bulletin of the Eoyal Ob- 

servatorij of Palermo.] 

Evaporation is one of the most important elements beaiing npon 
climatological relations, but one which, until now, has been little studied. 
In Italy there are some few stations in which such observations are con- 
ducted, although by different methods. In the determination of this 
element many difficulties and anomalies present themselves, insomuch 
that it is regarded as the least certain of all the problems offered by 
meteorology. Yet the instruments devised for the measurement of 
evaporation have been of late greatly improved, and in our opinion that 
of Vivenot is to be regarded as among the best. In our observatory the 
evaporation is observed simultaneously with two atmometers, one of 
which, being that of Gasparin, is entirely exposed to the direct action of 
the air and the solar rays 5 the other, that of Vivenot, is stationed with 
the other instruments of meteorology, designed for the temperature and 
humidity, that is to say, is defended from the direct action of the wind 
and sun. These two atmometers were described :n our Bulletins ]S"o8. 1 
and 4 for 1865. The series of observations which we are about to pre- 
sent extends through twenty months, from May, 1805, when a com- 
mencement was made with the atmometer of Vivenot, to December, 
18GG, inclusive. This interval is undoubtedly too short for arriving at 
definitive conclusions; but on a comparative examination of the curves 
of evaporation with those of the other meteorological elements, we have 
always observed a constant relation, especially in regard to the tempera- 
ture, force of the wind, and humidity, as may be verified by the monthly 
reviews. In consequence of this, I propose to determine these relations 
from the observations made, that is, to seek an expression for the eva- 
poration in functions of those elements, whence a first approximation 
may be obtained, serving as a contribution on our part to the researches 
on the climate of Italy. 

[We are unacquainted with the atmometer of Vivenot j that of Gas- 
parin consists of a shallow vessel of tinned copper, one meter square, 
and fifty centimeters in depth. In one corner of this is a fine screw 
placed perpendicularly, with a micrometer head at the top, and a fine 
point at the bottom, by means of which a small fractional i^art of a milli- 
meter of the depression of the surface of the water can be estimated. It 
is also furnished with a maximum and minimum thermometer, the bulbs 
of each being sheltered from the direct rays of the sun, while they par- 
take of the temperature of the surface of the water. This apj^aratus is 
freely exposed to the open air and sunshine. Care is required that no 
water is allowed to fall into the vessel from rain, or if it does fall in, to 
allow for the quantity. — J. H.] 



458 



METEOROLOGY. 



Tahle of the elements tcliicli have been enqyloyed in the researches on evapo- 
ration., as observed with the Vivenot atmometer, transcribed from tlie 
monthly bulletins. 



Mouths. 


Tempera- 
ture. 


Humidity. 


Force of 
the wind. 


Daily evapo- 
ration. 


Total 

evaporation of 

the month. 


1865. 
]SIay . . 


+20.5 
23. 5 
26.0 
26.7 
23.4 
20.3 
15.9 
12.3 

11.6 
14.0 
15. 2 
16.7 
IS. 9 
22.5 
26.1 
25.0 
23.4 
20.0 
15.9 
12. 9 


68.9 
63.5 
64.3 
64.7 
67.3 
75.5 

69. 
73.3 

75.0 
71.4 
64.6 
67.1 
66.9 
71.8 
63. 7 
66.0 
72. 3 

70. 6 
68.9 
73.0 


7.4 
11.2 
9.7 
6.9 
9.2 
10.9 
9.0 
8.0 

8.9 
9.2 
11.3 
8.2 
6.5 
5.4 
9.8 
7.9 
4.4 
5.4 
7.6 
9.2 


3.394 
4. 719 
5. 113 
5. 268 
4. 329 
2.746 
2. 790 
2. 151 

2.492 
2.819 
3. 906 
3.847 
4.239 
4. 432 
6. 905 
5.918 
4. 089 
3.493 
3.211 
2.314 


105. 215 


Juno 


141.581 


July 


159. 082 


Auii ust ... . 


164. 008 


Septeiuber 


128. 921 


October 


85. 132 


November 


83. 730 


December 


66. 683 


1866. 
January 


77. 240 


February 


84. 720 


March 


121. 080 


A\)ril 


115.410 


May 


131.411 


Juue 


132. 960 


July 

August -- . 


214. 047 
183. 460 


September 


122. 752 


October 


108. 285 


November 


96. 318 


December .... 


71.740 







From tlie above table it will at once be perceived that tbe prime pro- 
ductive cause of evaporation is the temiierature, the action of which 
may be promoted by the force of the wind and impeded by the humidity. 
If, therefore, we consider the quantity of evaporated water in relation 
alone to the temperature as the sole cause, we may deduce the equation — 

390.8^ = 78.175 
whence — 

t = + 0.20004 

If then the heat alone were the evaporating force, by multiplying the 
mean daily temperature by the coefficient we should have the quantity 
of the evaporation in millimeters. By making this calculation for the 
months from the preceding table, and considering the differences between 
the observation and the calculation, it will be seen that, in 18G5, the 
greatest differences are met with in the months of May and October, in 
which there occur two maxima of humidity, and that at that time 
the evaporation observed is less than that calculated ; and, in 18(36, the 
greatest differences are observed in tlie mouths of March, July, and 
August, in which there occur minima of humidity and an increase in 
the force of the wind, so that the observed evaporations become in these 
months greater than those calculated. Hence the influence of the force 
of the wind and of the humidity of the air is manifest. Taking account 



i 



EVAPORATION AT PALERMO. 



459 



tlien of the three elements, temperature, humidity, and force of the wind, 
we establish with the data of the table, for the daily evaporation, 20 
equations of condition, which being resolved by the method of least 
squares yield the following normal equations : 

8.10 . t + 26.78 . h + 3.22 ./-1.63=0 ) 
20.78 . t + 95.93 . h + 11.45 ./-5.33=0 [ . . . . (1.) 
3.22 . t + 11.45 . h + 1.45 ./-0.65=0 ) 

wherein f, /«,/, are the coefficients of the temperature, humidity, and 
force of the wind, to be determined. The equations (1) being resolved, 
we obtain the following values : 

t= + 0.20675 
h= + 0.01517 
/= + 0.11006 
which coefficients indicate that with the increase of the temperature 
and force of the wind, the evaporation also augments, while it dimin- 
ishes with the increase of the humidity, which, in effect, is also shown 
by the actual review of each month. The formula, then, of the evapora- 
tion, by the Yiveuot atmometer placed in the shade and defended from 
the direct action of the wind, will be the folowiug : 

E=T . 0.20675-H . 0.01517+ F . 0.11006 
in which T indicates the temperature in centesimal degrees, H the hu- 
midity in hundredths of saturation, F the horary velocity of the wind 
in kilometers. If, with this formula, we calculate the daily evaporation 
for each of the twenty months under consideration, we obtain the fol- 
lowing figures, which we transcribe, beside those resulting from obser- 
vation, with the relative differences : 



Months. 



Evaporation 
calculated. 



Evaporation 
observed. 



Difference. 



1865. 

May 

June 

July 

August 

SeXitember 

October 

Kovember 

December 

1866. 

January 

February 

March 

April 

May 

Juue , 

Jnly , 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December 



MiUimeien 
4. 024 
5.144 
5.485 
5.317 
4.847 
4.269 
3.246 
2.257 



255 
839 
320 
374 
624 
177 
.526 
054 
244 
696 
094 
574 



Millimeters. 
3.394 
4.719 
5.113 
5. 268 
4.329 
2.746 
2.790 
2.151 



2.492 

2. 819 
3.906 
3.847 
4. 239 
4.432 
6. 905 
5.918 
4.089 

3. 493 
3.211 
2.314 



MiUimetei's, 

— 0. 630 

— 0.425 

— 0. 372 

— 0. 049 

— 0.518 

— 1.523 

— 0. 456 

— 0. 106 



+ 0.237 

— 0. 020 
-f 0.586 
+ 0.473 
+ 0.615 
+ 0.255 
+ 1.370 
-f- 0.864 

— 1. 155 

— 0. 203 
+ 0. 117 

— 0.260 



4G0 METEOROLOGY. 

Hence it would appear that if the daily evaporation be calculated in 
this way we incur the risk of an error of ± 0™"".0 ; and although this 
difference may seem considerable, yet, taking into account the small 
number of observations, and the anomalies which ordinarily occur in 
this element, as well as the excesses of the weather experienced in the 
two years of the observations, it will be seen that the variations in the 
evaporation are distinctly represented. 

If the daily mean be thus calculated from the total of the twenty months, 
with T = 19°.54, H = G9.13 and F = 8.31, 

It will be found = 3°>. 913 

And the mean of the observed evaporation 3™. 9L'4 

Difference = O'". Oil 

So that the total of the calculated evaporation for the twenty 

months is found = 2386'".93 

While that from observation 2393°^. 78 



Whence the difference = C™.85 



As a proof of the manner in which this formula may represent the 
course of the daily evaporation, we have calculated it for each day of 
the month of October, 18GG, selecting this mouth for its variety in the 
different elements, so that the evaporation does not proceed directly in 
accordance with any of the curves of these elements. 
Tlie sum of the daily evaporations calculated for every day 

of this month gives a total of 113°^™.34 

While the observed amount was 108™™.29 

Whence results a difference only of 5'"'".05 



And from the course of the evaporation we have constructed the curves 
of evaporation as observed and calculated, which will be found in the 
annexed table, and which clearly demonstrate their conformity ; thus 
proving the distinct exactness of the formula and the excellence of the 
instrument in its sensibility to the variations of the different elements 
which concur in the production of evaporation. 

It is not at i)resent possible to establish the exact ratio of the evapo- 
ration in the different seasons and months, because the proper elements 
are wanting. In regard to the meteorological year 1865- 06, we have 
the evaporation distributed in the following manner : 

Millimeters. 

Winter 228.65 

Spring 367.90 

Summer . . 530.47 

Autumn 327.36 



EVAPORATION AT PALERMO. 



461 



that is to say, least in winter, greatest iu summer, nearly equal in 
spring- and autumn, being more restricted in the latter season, lor 
reasons which will be easily perceived from the following table : 



Seasons. 


Tempera- 
ture. 


Humidity. 


Force of 
the wind. 


Winter 


12.7 
17.0 

24.5 
19.8 


74.6 
66.2 
67.2 
70.6 


8 7 


Spring 


8.7 


Summer 


7.7 


Autumn 


5.8 







For a first approximation, therefore, we may calculate the mean daily, 
monthly, and annual evaporation, as well as that for the seasons, by 
employing the coefQcient only of the temperature, t = 0.20G75. Thus, 
taking the mean monthly temperature derived from the observations 
of seventy-six years, we form the following table : 



Months. 



Mean tem- 
perature 



Daily evapora- 
tion as cal- 
culated. 



Monthly evapo- 
ration as cal- 
culated. 



Mean quantity 
of rain as ob- 
served. 



January... 
February . . 

JIarch 

April 

May 

Juno 

July 

August 

September. 
October . . . 
November . 
December . 



-f 10. OS 
11.15 
12. 42 

14.86 
18. 59 
22. 34 
25. 04 
25. 22 
22.98 
19. 68 
15. 57 
12. 30 



MilUvictej's. 
2. 270 
2.305 

2. 567 

3. 072 

3. 843 
4.619 
5,176 
5.214 
4. 751 

4. 068 
3. 218 
2. 544 



Millimeters. 

70. 37 

65. 12 

79.59 

92.16 

119. 13 

138. 57 

loO. 46 

161. 64 

142. 53 

126. 11 

96. 54 

78.86 



Millimeters. 
71.74 
63. 55 
72. 69 
42. 65 
26.60 
17. 21 
5. 80 
9.11 
51.88 
71.65 
72. 2S 
83.80 



Hence, as regards seasons, the evaporation results as follows : 

Millimeters. 

Winter 214.35 

Spring 290.87 

Summer 4G0.G7 

Autumn 305.18 



Annual mean 1331.07 



In regard to the water which fell, it will be seen that in the months of 
January, February, March, and December, the evaxioration urns nearly 
equal ^ and that the annual evaporation ivas equal to ticice and one-fourth 
the qiiantity of rain. 

The Gaspabin evaporator. — With this atmometer the inconveni- 
ence constantlj^ presents itself that, on days of rain, the indications 
Xjoint to erroneous results, through the impossibility of applying the 



462 METEOROLOGY. 

just correction for the water wliicli falls, especially when there are very 
light showers, which cannot be measured by the pluviometer ; whence 
the evaporation given by the Gasi)arin atmometer during the months 
when there has been rain will be always inferior to the reality. To 
have, therefore, the true ratio between the indications of the two atmo- 
meters, and to correct those of the Gaspariu instrument, we proceed in 
the following manner : From the sums of evaporation, given by the two 
instruments in days when there was no rain, is deduced the ratio be- 
tween the two evaporations for each month, and from the evaporation 
observed with the atmometer of Vivenot, on the days of rain, is derived, 
by means of the ratio, the corrections to be made in the indications of 
that of Gasparin. 

In the following table will be found the monthly snras of this atmo- 
meter thus corrected, and which ditfer from those given in the single 
bulletins, because the aforesaid correction is then not applied. Hence, 
to determine a formula representing the evaporation according to the 
Gasparin atmometer, it is to be remembered that in this instrument the 
action of the force of the wind must needs be greater than for that of 
Vivenot, and that it is necessary, moreover, to take into account the di- 
rect action of the solar rays, as we have not the temperature of the 
water by that atmometer. We will sui^pose this action of the solar rays 
proportional to the sine of the meridian altitude of the sun, for the effect 
of the solar rays may be modified by the presence of clouds, diminishing 
that action whenever they interpose between the sun and station. On 
the other hand, the action of the daily temperature and the humidity 
will, for this instrument, be the same as for that of Vivenot ; whence 
the coefficients relative to these two elements will remain the same. If, 
then, we calculate the part of the evaporation due to these two elements 
and subtract it from the daily evaporation of the Gasparin atmometer, 
the remainders of evaporation will be due to the direct action of the 
solar rays, the direct action of the wind, and the serenity. With these 
remainders will be established the equations of condition from which 
are to be found the coefficients, «, v, and /, relative to the sine of the 
meridian altitude of the sun, the serenity, and force of the wind. 

In the table which follows will be found united all the necessary ele- 
ments, that is to say, the mean value of the sine of the sun's altitude 
for every month, which we will denote by sine h, the volume of the 
clouds, the force of the wind, daily evaporation of the Gasparin instru- 
ment, the total for every month, by both the atmometers, and their 
relation ; finally, the remainders of that of Gasparin, calculated as has 
been above stated. 



EVAPORATION AT PALERMO. 



463 



Months. 



1865, 

May 

June 

July 

August - . . 
Septomber 
October . . 
Kovember 
December. 

1866. 
January . . 
February . . 

March 

April 

May , 

June 

July , 

August 

September . 

October 

November . 
December. . 



Siuh. 



0.945 

0. 0G7 
0.058 
0.911 
0.816 
0. ti8-2 
0.543 
0.478 



0.515 
0.030 

0. 76S 
0. 88-2 
0.945 
0. 967 
0.958 
0.911 
0.816 
0. 6S-2 
0. 548 
0.478 






7.4 
11.2 
9.7 
6.9 
9.2 
10.9 
9.0 
8.0 



8.9 
9.2 
11.3 
8.2 
6.5 
5.4 
9.8 
7.9 
4.4 
5.4 
7.6 
9.2 



Daily 
ovoiporation. 



Millimeters. 
5.753 
7.074 
7.977 
7. 490 
6. 0U2 
3. 524 
2.751 
1. 928 



2.209 
3.159 

4. 974 
5.833 
5.568 
6. 232 
8.911 
7.547 

5. 002 
3. 236 
2.863 
2.495 



Total in the 
mouth. 



Millimeters. 
178. 33 
212. 21 
247. 30 
232. 18 
ISO. 06 
109. 32 
82.54 
59.78 



68.46 

88.46 

154. 19 

175. 00 

172. 61 

186. 95 

276. 24 

233. 97 

150. 05 

100. 32 

8.5. 89 

77.35 



Total 

evaporation, 

Vivenot. 



Millimeters. 

105. 21 

141. 58 

159. 08 

164. ()1 

128. 92 

85.13 

83. 73 

66.69 



77.24 
84. 72 

121. OS 
115.41 
131.41 
132. 96 
214. 05 
183. 46 

122. 75 
108. 20 

9u. 32 
71.74 



Difference, 
G-V. 



Millimeters. 
1. 605 
1.313 
1.554 
1.416 
1. 397 
1. 284 
0. 986 
0.896 



0.886 
1.044 
1. 274 
1.516 
1. 313 
1. 406 
1.201 
1. 275 
1. 222 
l!926 
0. 802 
1.078 



Millimeters. 
2. 528 
3.145 
3.538 
2. 913 
2.149 
0.439 
0.482 
9.531 



0.924 
1. 321 
2.785 
3.371 
2.648 
2.634 
4.442 
3. 342 
1.223 
Cf.l39 
0. 503 
0.931 



With the numbers of the 1st, 2d, 3d, and hxst cohimns are, formed 
twenty equations, which, treated by the method of least squares, yield 
the three following equations : 



12.50. a+ 503.18. -?)+ 117.15./- 34.75=0 
503.18 . a+29:i70.00 . '?;+5883.G0 ./-1117.G1=0 
117.15 . a+ 5883.60 . ^+1119.90 ./- 311.02=0 



-- (2) 



These equations (2) being resolved, we find — 

a=+2.9227; ^=-0. 0651; / =+0. 2642 

The signs of these coefficients agree with the considerations before 
stated, and the value of /, coefficient of the force of the wind, gives a 
result more than double that determined by the Yivenot atmometer, as 
we had supposed would be the case in the independent description of 
that instrument. 

The daily evaporation of the Gasparin atmometer, indicated by E', 
would be represented by the formula — 

E'=T . 0.20675-H . 0.01517+F . 0.2642- V . 0.0651+ (sin 7/) . 2.9227 
where T is the daily mean temperature, H the humidity, F the force 
of the wind, V the quantity of the clouds expressed in hundredths of 
the sky obscured, and sin h the sine of the meridian-altitude of the sun. 
Calculated by this formula, we obtain the following results for the daily 
evaporations, which in the annexed table are placed beside those ob- 
served, as well as their relative differences : 



464 



METEOROLOGY. 



Month. 



1865. 



Calculated. 



Observed. 



O— C. 



Calculated. 



Observed. 



O— C. 



iTannary ... 
rebrnary . . 

March 

April .• 

May 

Julie 

July 

AuECiist 

September . 

October 

November . 
December.. 



Millimeters. 



Millimeters. 



Millimeters. 



5.466 

7. too 

8. 8-23 
8. 345 
7.105 
4.701 
2.666 
0.935 



5. 753 
7. 074 
7. 977 
7. 490 

6. 00-J 
3. 504 
2. 751 
1. 9-28 



+ 0. 2o7 
-0. 816 
-0.840 
-0. 855 
-1.103 
-1.177 
+ 0.085 
+ 0.993 



Millimeters. 
1.689 
3.700 
4. 3-27 
4. 992 

4. 599 
6.093 
9. 465 
7. 846 

5. 373 
3.521 
3.404 
2. 591 



Millimeters. 
2.209 
3. 1.59 
4.974 
5. 833 
5.568 
6.232 
8. 911 
7.547 
5. 002 
3. 236 
2.863 
2.495 



Millimeters. 
+ 0.520 
-0. 007 
+ 0.647 
+ 0.841 
+ 0.909 
+ 0.139 
-0. 554 
-0. 299 
-0.371 
-0. 2:5 
-0. 541 
-0. 006 



From the differences it is seen that the results obtained by this in- 
strument also are sufficiently exact to be capable of being approxi- 
mately represented witb the special formula, and the accord between 
the calculation and the observation seems to us satisfactory, regard 
being had to the construction and conditions of situation of this appa- 
ratus. 

The daily mean thus calculated from the elements of the twenty 
months gives a result equal to S^'^.loG, while the observed mean was 
5mm_Q27j whence we have the difference, 0™™.129, so that the total 
evaporation as calculated for the twenty months is found to be equal to 
3,145™™.1G, and the sum of the evaporation observed 3,071"™.21— dif- 
ference, 73'"™.95. 

The daily mean, as calculated for 18G6, gives a result of 4™™.7S52, 
and the total in the twelve months, IjTiG^^'.GO, while the observed was 
1,7G9'"'^.49— difierence, 22°"^.89. 

Knowing, therefore, the mean force of the wind, the mean humidity, 
and at the same time the clearness and temperature, w^e shall be in a 
position to verify approximately the mean monthly and annual evapo- 
ration by this atmometer exposed to the direct action of the wind and 
rays of the sun. "VVe have not all these elements, and hence cannot at 
present apply the formula in its entirety. But, for a first approxima- 
tion, we may take account solely of the temperature, humidity, and alti- 
tude of the sun, having the coefficients of the force of the wind and vol- 
ume of the clouds contrary signs; in effect, thus calculated the evapora- 
tion for 18GG results differently from that observed, w^hich was 1,7G9''^.0 
by only SG^'^.O. 

By making the calculation, with the relative humidity transcribed 
from the only decennium in which psychrometrical observations were 
conducted, the evaporation in the open air yields the results denoted in 
the following table, as well for the daily mean as for the total of each 
mouth and each season, together with the annual* mean : 



EVAPORATION AT PALERMO. 



46i 



Months. 



Jamiary . . 
JFebruary . 

Marcli 

April 

May 

Juue 

July 

August ... 
September 
October . . 
November 
December 



S ® 



+10. 98 
11.15 
12. 42 
14.86 
18.59 
22.34 
25. 04 
25.22 
22. 98 
19.68 
15.57 
12.30 



.5 >:> 



78.7 
77.7 
77.2 
76.1 
73.5 
72.0 
70.1 
69.3 
73.5 
75.7 
75.9 
80.7 



Sin h. 



0.515 
0. 630 
0.768 
0.882 
0.945 
0. 967 
0.958 
0.911 
0.816 
0. 682 
0.548 
0.478 



2.595 

2.982 
3.654 
4.508 
5.502 
6. 366 
6.925 
6. 838 
6. 034 
4. 926 
3.682 
2.730 



5"^ 



80. 

84. 
113. 
135. 
170. 
190. 
114. 
211. 
181. 
152. 
110. 

84. 



By seasons. 



Winter 249.32 

Spring 419.07 

Summer 617.64 

Autumn 444. 19 

Annual mean . 1, 730. 22 



In relation to rain, by comparing the total monthly evaporations with 
the mean quantity of water which falls in each month, and which will 
be found recorded in one of the preceding tables, it will be seen that 
the evaporation according to the Gasparin apparatus is about equal to 
the rain only in the months of January and December, being alicays 
greater in the other months ; the annual evaporation is very nearly 
thrice the height of the water ichich falls, and equal to once and a third 
of that in the shade, or as denoted by the atmometer of Vivenot. From 
the quantities of the monthly evaporation calculated after both instru- 
ments let us take the differences referable to the different positions of 
the atmometers, and transcribe them in connection with those actually 
verified in 18G6. G — Y indicates the Gasparin evaporation less that of 
the Vivenot atmometer. 

Differetices. 

G — V from calculation. G — V observed in 1866. 
Millimeters. Millimeters. 

January +10. 08 — 8. 78 

February. +10. 12 + 3. 74 

March +33. 69 +33. 11 

April +43. 08 +59. 59 

May +51.43 +41.20 

June +52. 41 +53. 99 

July +54. 22 +62. 19 

August +50. 34 +50. 51 

September ... +38. 49 +27. 30 

October +26. 60 — 7. 97 

November +13. 92 —10. 43 

December + 5. 77 + 5. 61 

The above differences, if we consider the disturbances to which the 
Gaspariu atmometer is exposed from raiu and clouds, discover a suffi- 
30 s 



4G6 



METEOEOLOGY. 



cieut agreement, and at tlie same time show that these differences in- 
crease from January till the month of July, and then diminish until 
December, in which occurs the minimum of difference for the two in- 
struments. 

In calculating- the evaporation by day and that by night for each 
month, we have found the following numbers : 



Evaporation. 



Months. 



By day. 



Millimeters. 



January .. 
February . 

March 

April 

Iilay 

Jane 

July 

August - - . 
September 
October... 
November 
December 



96 
35 
95 
64 
38 
99 
30 
02 
27 
26 
2.48 
1.93 



By night. 



Millimeters. 

0.64 

0. 63 
0.70 
0.87 
1.13 

1. 38 
1.63 
1.82 
1.76 
1.67 
1.20 
0.80 



Eatio. 



Millimeters. 

3.03 
3. 73 
4.21 
4.18 
3. 91 
3. 62 
3.25 
2.76 
2. 43 
1.95 
2.07 
2.41 



Thus the greatest evaporation at night occurs in the month of August, 
the least in February ; the ratio hetiveen that of day and night increases 
from October to March, and then diminishes gradnaJly till October. 

From what we have thus been able to compile it would evident! j' seem 
that for a complete study of the subject of evaporation it is indispens- 
able to have two atmometers, one to be stationed with the other meteor- 
ological instruments, and defended from the direct action of the wind 
and rays of the sun, the other entirely free. For the latter jiurpose the 
construction of the Gasparin atmometer is suited, for the former that of 
Vivenot, though it might be expedient to give to this last greater dimen- 
sions than those heretofore employed. 



ON THE ELECTRICITY OF INfll'CTIOX IN THE AEKIAL STRATA OF THE ATMO- 
SPHERE WHICH, IN THE SHAPE OF A RING, SURROUND A CLOUD THAT 
IS RESOLVING INTO RAIN, SNOW, OR HAIL. 

By Pkofessor Fk. Zantedeschi, 
Of the Royal Venetian Institute of Sciences, Letters and Arts. 

[Extracted from Vol. XII, scries III, of the Transactions of the Institute.] 

Professor Luigi Palmieri states as follows: 

" Where rain is falling there must be present positive electricity, with 
a zone or wave of negative electricity on every side, which zoue, in tem- 
pestuous weather, may extend to a distance of thirty miles, especially in 
summer. Upon this subject, after so many observations, conducted by 



ELECTRICITY OF INDUCTION. 467 

precise metliods and uuder favorable circum stances, I feel at liberty to 
deny the fr^e negative electricity of a serene sky, and also the existence 
of clouds endowed, as a property, with this electricity, maintaining that 
the negative electricity only manifests itself with the falling of the rain, 
hail, or snow, through the effect of the influence of the positive electricity, 
which is copiously developed on the resolution of the clouds into water. 
1 deem it useless to explain how negative electricity may also be pres- 
ent when rain falls on the place of the observations, for this indicates 
another more iutense rain which is proceeding at a certain distance.'-* 

The Eev. Padre A. Secchi shows that he holds the same doctrine, for 
he says : 

"In regard to tlie foct asserted by Professor Palmieri that nega- 
tive electricity is not present in a serene state of the sky, except in the 
case of rain actually falling on the spot, or at least at some distance off 
and in view of the horizon, I have found it to be constantly veriiied." 

He also recognizes a primary negative zone, which attends a storm 
through the etfect of induction.t 

The opinion of Professor Palmieri, thus sustained by Eev. Padre A. 
Secchi, is wanting in i)oint of positive proof. It would be necessary, in 
order to supply such proof, that an experimenter should be stationed at 
the center where the cloud which is being resolved into rain is directly' 
superincumbent, and should investigate the kind of electricity of the 
falling shower; while other exxjerimenters should be placed around its 
periphery', so as to form a ring, each of whom should exploie the 
nature of the electricity of the air surrounding the dissolving cloud. 
By a complete experiment like this, the x)robleui propounded by Pro- 
fessor Palmieri might be solved. The rain falling at the center, endued 
with positive electricity or with negative electricity, should be found to 
have around it a circle of negative electricity or of positive electricity. 

I requested Padre A. Secchi to make this experiment in the environs of 
Eome, but he assured me that it could not be carried into effect there 
on account of the topographic difficulties of the hills which encompass 
that city. aSTot being myself able to prosecute the exi)eriment on a 
large scale in the Euganeau region and the circumjacent cities of 
Yicenza, Lignano, Badia, Eovigo, and Padua, I limited my views to a 
cabinet experiment, which, nevertheless, appears to me sufficient for the 
solution of the proposed problem. I suspended to a thread of silk a 
hollow sphere of brass, which I proceeded to electrify now positivelj^ 
and again negatively. Arranging around it the wire of a straw electro- 
meter and bringing it successively nearer to the electrified s[)here, I 

* Bolldino metcorolofjico dcJV Osscrvatorio del CoUcgio I^omano, Vol. II, No. 15, p. 113, 
for the year 1863: Letter from Signor L. Palmieri, director of the Osservatorio Vcsuviano, 
to Padre A. Secchi. 

\ Bollctino mettoroJofjico ddV OsseriYitorio del Collcgio Homano, Vol. II, No. 17, p. 129, 
for 18G3 : Reflections of Professor Francesco Zantedeschi ou the article of Patlre k, 
Secchi, entitled: Allic studii dl clcttridta atmosjpherka. 



468 METEOROLOGY. 

closed it at tlie distance at which the straws began to diverge. I now 
tested with an essayer the nature of the electricity of the electrometer. 
I found that if the electrified sphere was positive, the electricity of the 
electrometer was also positive ; but if the sphere was electrified nega- 
tively, such also was the electricity of the electrometer. From this 
extreme point, on carrying the electrometer toward the sphere, I saw 
the tension always continue to increase without any change occurring 
in the species of electricity. An electrified solid then has around it an 
electric atmosphere of the same name. We should not confound, there- 
fore, the distribution of the electricity i^resented by an isolated solid con- 
ductor at its surface, submitted to the influence of an electrified body, with 
the distribution of the electricity presented by the ethereal space sur- 
rounding that electrified body. This difference I demonstrated in all 
its particulars and circumstances in my memoir entitled "New experi- 
ments regarding the origin of atmospheric electricity and the electro- 
static induction of the isolated solid conductors of Zantedeschi." * 

I arrived at the same result bj^ causing an artificial shower to fall from 
a certaio licight, which shower I electrified positively and negatively in 
succession, by means of my electrical machine, for the two electricities. 
The electrometer placed at a distance from the falling rain, which 
scarcely gave signs of tension, and which was next advanced to the 
place where it was raining, nmnifested an increasing tension, without 
yielding any signs of a changed electricit}'. 

The following is a description of the experiment: A car was constructed 
with four wheels, which moved upon two threads stretched horizontally 
like the two lines of a railroad. The wheels as well as the threads were of 
gum-elastic, in order perfectly to isolate the car suspended by bodies com- 
monly recognized as conductors. The vertical walls of the car and the hor- 
izontal floor were formed of conducting substances, but the floor was perfor- 
ated throughout in order to give passage to a kind of artificial rain, 
when the cavity of the car was filled with water. At one end the floor 
of the car communicated by means of a conducting-wire with the 
electric machine, which, when charged positively, electrified positively 
the isolated car with the water which it contained, and, charged nega- 
tively, charged with negative electricity the aforesaid car and the water 
contained in it. Examining with an electrometer the kind of electricity 
of the falling rain, I have found that it was of the same nature with that 
of the electric machine, that is to say, positive if I had used the positive 
electricity of the machine, and negative if I had employed its negative 
electricity. Having assured myself of this result, I proceeded b^' means 
of an isolating thread of silk or gum-lac attached to the other end of the 
floor to bring the hjdrometeoric electrical car into tbe proximity of a 
straw-electrometer. These straws always diverged more in proportion 
as the distance from the fiilliug rain diminished, without, however, 

* Atcneo Italiano, Vol. II, p. 339/priDted. at Paris by Victor Masson, 18fe4, and at Ven- 
ice by G. Autouelli, 1854. 



ELECTRICITY DURING RAIN. 469 

changing the kind of electricity. There must, of course, be the zero of 
tension, which occurs in solid and isolated conductors submitted to the 
electricity of influence, as it is now commonly termed in the schools, 
and I should say this zero of tension was immersed in the ethereal space 
electrified with the same electricity with which the body existiug at the 
center was invested. I invite physicists to repeat my experiments, since 
by them may be overthrown the doctrine of atmospheric electricity of 
influence in the air ; and, still more, the law, enunciated by Signor Luigi 
Palmieri, and confirmed by Padre A. Secchi, regarding the negative circle 
which surrounds the cloud that is being resolved into rain, snow, or 
hail. 



ON THE PRESENCE OP ELECTRICITY DURING THE FALL OF RAIN. 

By Pkof. PAI.JIIERI, OF THE VESUVIUS Observatory. 

[Trayislatcd for the Smithsonian Institution.] 

All the observations upon atmospherical electricity made during 
storms before 1850, the date of my first memoir upon electrical mete- 
orology, had established the presence of electricity of greater or less 
tensions — alternately positive and negative — and consequently neutral 
during its passage from one phase to the other. During the fall of rain 
in calm weather electricity had been observed to be sometimes positive, 
sometimes negative; and many authors, as Kiimtz, were induced to dis- 
tinguish positive ami negative vdins. Quetelet alone had observed that 
during the same fall of rain there might be positive aud also negative 
electricity. During this confusion I found, in 1853, a very simi)le law 
that determines electrical manifestations during the fall of rain, hail, or 
snow; having been enabled to discover it, thanks to a movable conductor 
and to the possibility of placing it on the Vesuvius Observatory, G37 
meters above the level of the sea, and under the clear atmosphere of 
Naples, through which objects can be seen at a great distance. This 
law can be expressed thus: When rain falls there is a considerable devel- 
opment of positive electricity^ to itli a zone or ivave of negative electricity, 
folloived by another of strongly positive electricity. 

The breadth of the zones depends upon the extensiveness of the show- 
ers, aud also upon the conditions of the air surrounding the clouds that 
resolve themselves into water. The course foUow^ed by the rain while 
falling through a more or less extensive space, according to the direction 
of winds, gives the observer an opportunity to note the passage from one 
phase to another ; and if rain was falling on a given point with the same 
intensity, and without change of direction, the observer would have con- 
tinually the same phase. The breadth of the zones alters rapidly during 
the appearance of lightning, and then soon returns to its previous state. 
Any variation in the intensity and extensiveness of the showers causes 
changes in the breadth of the zones, and therefore the observer is easily 



470 METEOROLOGY. 

euabled by all tbose causes to note the passage from one phase to tlie 
other. Siicli is the origin of every phenojicnou previously observed. 
After having established this law hj many personal observations, I did 
not tiiil to seek for its corroboration in the records of tlie observations of 
others; and many facts mentioned by Beccaria seemed to me derived 
from that law, which is otherwise corroborated in a description of a fall 
of hail observed by Oward. Quetelet, upon hearing of this law, exam- 
iued the records of his own observations, and found it corroborated by 
them; and he then proclaimed it also, taking my observations into ac- 
count, but not giving me clearly the priority of discovery that undoubt- 
edly belonged to me. Afterward others confirmed said law, which I 
never fiiiled to verify whenever opportunity offered, the best conditions 
being to have a very extensive horizon and a rain or storm commencing 
at a considerable distance from the observer, approaching him with the 
v,iud, and then leaving him behind. These are, in fact, the onlj' condi- 
tions in which it is possible to verify the truth of the above-mentioned 
law. 

On the 20th of September, ISOS, on or about 11 o'clock a. m., there 
appeared above the sea, in a westerly direction, somewhere beyond the 
Ponzie Islands, a cloud of very small dimensions. Suspecting a storm, 
I used the apparatus with movable conductor, and noticed a strongly 
positive tension, indicating a distant rain ; and suspending the con- 
ductor in an elevated position, the oscillations of the gold plates of Boli- 
nenberger's electroscope indicated lightning. The wind was very weak 
and coming from southwest, bringing the storm toward the observatory. 

At noon the tension became negative, and after a few moments, dur- 
ing vrhich it was null, and when already could be heard the thunder-claps 
of the approaching storm, the negative tension increased so as to emit 
sparks ; thunder was heard more distinctly, and rain was seen falling 
on the Campania. At 1 o'clock p. m. rain was falling upon the observa- 
tory, and the tension, passing through 0, became positive. At 3 p. m. 
rain had ceased to fall on the observatory, but was falling over Castel- 
lamare, giving again a strong negative tension. Over the Mounts of 
Castellamare it ceased to rain, and positive electricity returned, but with 
a weak tension of 15°. Had the storm kept on its primary course east 
of the observatory, there should have been a strong positive tension 
( -f co). In this case, therefore, the last phase alone failed to be observed. 

Whoever found himself in elevated places, or upon the open sea, must 
have often noticed two or more rains, each distinct from the other, fall- 
ing with small intervals between them ; and this explains why apparent 
exceptions are often recorded against tlie universality of the law. Let 
us suppose, for instance, that on the spot where is the observer a rain is 
fallmg, while another, stronger, falls at some distance ; then it becomes 
evident that, if positive and negative electricity were to be obtained 
from the first stronger than from the second, with the rain falling upon 
the observatory, there should be in it negative electricity. And this is 



ELECTRICITY DURING RAIN. 471 

tlie origin of the assumed negative rains, as well as of tbe supposed nega- 
tive clouds, two errors as yet taught by some authorities. After twenty 
years of study of electrical meteorology, I believe I have acquired the 
right to reject many errors, without caring about the names of those by 
whom those errors were accredited. But, giving a proper interpretation 
to the facts recorded by diligent and eminent observers, instead of ob- 
jections to the truth of the i^rinciple I have exposed, we discover in them 
the proof of what I have said. Many, for instance, upon the authority 
of Beccaria, afiQrm the production of electricity in pure atmosphere, {del 
sereno^) and I have demonstrated that this can only take place when, at 
some distance from the place of observation, rain, hail, or snow is fall- 
ing. Kow, by a careful perusal of the illustrious electrician's worlds, we 
see that, instead of a refutation of my principle, there is in them what 
might entitle him to the right of priority in the discovery. The follow- 
ing passage from Beccaria's works seems quite clear: '■'■Electricity in pure 
atmosj)liere is always in excess, and tchenever in serene atmospliere elec- 
tricity in defect is observed, it has heen carried there by wind from some 
part of tJie atmosphere^ as distant as it might he, tcherc there are actually 
clouds, snoic, rain, or hailP It is evident that the diligent observer 
derives the electricity in such case from a distant region, not serene, 
and, instead of the influx, believes it to be carried by the wind ; 
but the fact of electricity becoming negative after the storm had passed 
the x)lace of observation, and was carried eastward hj a gentle wind, as 
previously described, would be sufficient to i)reclude the idea of the wind 
as carrier of negative electricity, even had I not observed, a hundred 
times, electricity with the most perfect calm. Sui^pressing, therefore, 
the word cloud in Beccaria's sentence above reproduced, it will remain 
a fact that negative electricity in serene atmosphere is obtained onlj- 
when, at a distance from the place of observation, rain, hail, or snow is 
falling. 

Peltier had observed negative electricity in presence of certain clouds 
of a dark-bluish color, and thought that their electrical nature might 
be made known by their color. When clouds at a distance resolve 
themselves in rain they exactly assume that color described by the French 
j)hysicist, and the falling rain produces negative electricity. Thus my 
observations are confirmed, not refuted. 

The existence of clouds loaded with negative electricity pertaining to 
them has been attributed either to the negative electricity often observed 
with a fall of rain at the place of observation, or to the same electricity 
observed in presence of clouds. We have explained how the first is 
produced; the second is a certain sign of distant rain. On the Vesuvius 
Observatory clouds often i)ass in such a way as to surround the whole 
building; yet in many years of continued observations, with fixed and 
movable conductors, I have never met, under those conditions, with 
negative electricity. 



472 METEOROLOGY. 



CLIMATE OF KANSAS. 

By R. S. Elliott, 
Industrial agent Kansas Pacific Eailway. 

Pond Creek Station, Kansas Pacific Eailway, 

Septemhcr U2, 1870. 

I have been ou the Plains nearly all the time from early in ]\Iay till this 
date. There has been much dry weather, bat I have not seen one cloud- 
less day ; no day on which the sun would rise clear and roll along a canopy 
of brass to the west. There has always been humidity enough to form 
clouds at the proper height, and on many days they would be seen 
defining, by thin flat bottoms, the exact line where the condensation 
became sufficient to render the vapor visible. The sun would be only 
partially obscured at intervals, the condensation not being of a character 
materially to lessen the effect of his rays in giving us heat and light, 
until in the after part of the day, when appearances of a storm were apt 
to jjresent themselves in some part of the heavens ; only, however, too 
often to pass away without giving us the desired shower. 

I conclude from all this that abundant moisture has floated over the 
Plains to have given us a great deal more rain than would be desirable 
if it had been precipitated. 

Sometimes a storm would be seen to gather near the horizon, and we 
could see the rain pending from the clouds like a fringe, hanging appar- 
ently in mid-air, unable to reach the expectant earth. The rain stage 
of condensation had been reached above, but the descending shower 
was revaporized apparentlj', and thus arrested. 

In a moderately calm day — for our calms are only moderate in this 
airy region — I have observed little columns of dust to arise in all direc- 
tions, generally widely scattered. These usnally, if not always, coin- 
cided Vv'ith mirage in all directions ; not that they appeared in the 
mirage, but coincided in the day of their appearance. The mirage, 
however, very often appeared on days too windy for the little columns 
to be formed ; they being only whirlwinds rendered visible by the dust 
taken up. Within forty-eight hours after the little column i^henomena, 
I have noted that the wind is apt to be coming strongly from the north- 
ward, laden with a mist or scud that sometimes reaches the dignity of 
rain. 

The changes of wind are often very sudden, from southward — the 
prevailing point in summer — to all points, but mainly to the north. 
Sometimes this change is observed during the progress of a rain-storm, 
and seems to be due to a sort of local or limited cyclone; but the differ- 
ence in temperature between the south and north winds seems to forbid 
the cyclone theory. I cannot understand how a circuit of a few hun- 
dred miles in the heated prairie sh.ould so cool a current that had only 



CLIMATE OF KANSAS. 473 

wliii'led by us a very short time before. If we reject the cyclone theory 
we must suppose parallel but opposite currents, in streaks, thus : 




On loth July last I witnessed a fine example of this sudden chauge 
of direction and temperature in the wind. A storm arose, with light- 
ning in the west, the southwest, and the northwest. The railways train 
was going eastward at the distance of about three hundred and twenty- 
five miles west from Kansas City. We were soon enveloped in the 
storm, rain, and wind so strong from the north that the wheels of the 
coaches could be felt grating their flanges on the south rail, aud the 
rain, striking the end windows of the car, ran across in a true horizon- 
tal line. In a few minutes the temperature had fallen so low as to be 
uncomfortable ; but in a run of not, I think, over ten miles, we were 
again in the loarm winds usual at that season, and these, by contrast, 
seemed to be the hot winds sometimes experienced. 

These hot winds are not, so far as I have observed, apt to be constant 
in one place for any considerable length of time ; they strike your face 
suddenly, and in perhaps a minute are gone. They seem to run along 
in streaks, or ovenfulls, with the winds of ordinary (but rather high) 
temperature. They do not begin, I believe, till in July, as a general 
rule, and are over by September 1, or perhaps by August 15. Their 
origin I take to be, of course, in heated regions south or southwest of 
us ; but their peculiar occurrence, so capricious and often so brief, I 
cannot explain to myself satisfactorily. 

I have no rain-gauge record at hand for this and past seasons; but I 
may remark that this season, since about 15th of July, in these distant 
plains, has given us rain enough to make beautifully verdant the spots 
in the prairie burned off during the " heated term " of July. From Kit 
Carson eastward the rains have been, I think, exceptionally abundant. 
All through the summer we have had dew occasionally ; and it has been 
remarked that buffalo meat has been more difficult of preservation than 
heretofore ; facts indicative of humitlity in the atmosphere, even when 
but little rain-fall was witnessed. Turnips sown in August would have 
made a crop, without irrigation, in this vicinity, four hundred and twen- 
ty-two miles west of the State line of Missouri, and about three thou- 
sand two hundred feet above the sea-level. 

Facts such as these seem to sustain the pojiular persuasion in Kansas, 
that a climatic change is taking place, promoted by the spread of settle- 
ments westwardly ; breaking up portions of the prairie-soil ; covering 
the earth with plants that shade the ground more than the short grasses, 



474 METEOROLOGY. 

tlins clieckiiig or modifying' the reflectiou of her.t from the earth's sur- 
fiice, &c. The fact is also noted that even where the prairie soil is not 
disturbed, the short buffalo-grass disappears as the "frontier" extends 
westward, and its place is taken by grasses and other herbage of taller 
growth. That this change of the clothing of the Plains, if sufficiently 
extensive, might have a modifying influence on the climate, I do not 
doubt ; but whether the change has been already spread over a large 
cijougli area, and whether our apparently or really Avetter seasons may 
not be only part of a cycle, are unsettled questions. 

The civil engineers of this railway believe that the rains and humidity 
of the Plains have increased during the extension of the railroads and 
telegraphs across them. If this is the case, it may be that the myste- 
rious electrical influence in which they seem to have faith, but do not 
profess to explain, has exercised a beneficial influence. "What efl'ect, if 
any, the digging and grading, the iron rails, the tension of steam in 
locomotives, the friction of metallic surfaces, the poles and wires, the 
action of batteries, &c., could possibly or probably have on the electri- 
cal conditions, as connected with the phenomena of i^recipitation, I do 
not, of course, undertake to say. It may be that wet seasons have 
merely happened to coincide with railroads and telegraphs. It is to be 
observed that the poles of the telegraph are quite frequently destroyed 
by lightning; and it is probable that the lightning thus discharges in 
many x^laces where before the erection of the telegraph it was not apt to 
do so, and perhaps would not reach the earth at all. 

I trespass on your attention with these crude remarks, not knowing 
but what I might possibly lead your thought to something of value in 
connection with meteorological phenomena in this distant but interest- 
ing region. You will readily see that I have no claim to the possession 
of meteorological knowledge, in the higher sense of the term. 

I may state that during the past season, from April to July, wheat 
was grown and matured, without irrigation^ at a point on the Plains 
three hundred and seventy-six miles west of Kansas City, and two thou- 
sand nine hundred and forty-eight teet above the sea. A sample has 
been sent to the Department of Agriculture. This wheat, about meri- 
dian 101, sustains the vievv's of the article I took the liberty of sending 
you in March last on the " Climate of the Plains." 



ACCOUNT OF a' HAIL-STORM IN THE BOSPHORUS. 475 



ACCOTOT OF A HAIl-STORM ON THE BOSPUOEUS. 



From Porter's (Commodore) ConstantiuoiAe, 1835, Vol. I,pp- 43-47. 



[Our attention lias been called to the following account of a remark- 
able hailstorm. x)ublisbed iu the letters of the late Commodore Porter, 
of the United States iSTavy, a work now out of print and not likely to 
meet tbe eye of meteorologists. — J. H.] 

On our way from the residence of the minister to meet tbe Eois 
Eftendi, at Candalie, balf way between this and Constantinople, and a 
few minutes after leaving tbe landing, I witnessed a scene tbe most 
awful and appalling that tbe imagination can depict. 

In a six-oared kaick, tbe American miuister, bis secretary, t&c, and 
myself, witb bis kervoss, started witb tbe treaty and regalia of about 
thirty thousand dollars worth of snuff-boxes, which you might have i)ut 
in your coat x)ocket. We bad got perhaps a mile and a half on our 
way, when a cloud rising in the west gave indication of aii approach- 
ing rain. In a few minutes we discovered something falling from tbe 
heavens witb a heavy splash, and of a whitish appearance. I could not 
conceive what it was, but observing some gulls near, 1 supposed them 
to be darting for fish ; but soon after discovered thnt they were large 
balls of ice falling. Immediately we heard a sound like rumbling thun- 
der, or ten thousand carriages rolling furiously over the pavement. 
The whole Bospborus was in a foam, as though heaven's artillery had 
been discharged upon us and our frail machine. Our fate seemed inev- 
itable ; our umbrellas were raised to protect us ; the lum[)S of ice stripped 
them into ribands. We fortunately bad a bullock's hide in the boat, 
under which we crawled and saved ourselves from further injury. One 
man, of the three oarsmen, bad bis band literally smashed ; another 
much injured in the shoulder; Mr. H. received a severe blow in the leg; 
my right band was somewhat disabled, and all more or less injured. 

A smaller kaick accompanied, with my two servants. They were 
both disabled, and are now in bed with their v/ounds ; the kaick Vv'as 
terribly bruised. It was the most awful and terrific scene that I ever 
witnessed, and God forbid that I should ever be exposed to such another. 
Balls of ice as large as my two fists fell into the boat, and some of them 
came with such violence as certainly to have broken an arm or a leg, 
had they struck us iu those parts. One of them struck tbe blade of an 
oar and split it. The scene lasted, may be, five minutes ; but it was 
five minutes of the most awful feeling that I ever experienced. When 
it passed over we found the surrounding hills covered with masses of 
ice, I cannot call it hail ; the trees stripped of their leaves and limbs, 



476 METEOEOLOGY. 

and everything looking desolate. We proceeded on our course, how- 
ever, and arrived at our destination drenched and awe-struck. The ruin 
had not extended so far as Candalie, and it was diiBcult to make them 
comprehend the cause of the nervous and agitated condition in which 
we arrived ; the Eeis Effendi asked me if I vras ever so agitated when 
in action ? I answered no, for then I had something to excite me, and 
human means only to oppose. He asked tlie minister if he was ever so 
affected in a gale of wind at sea. He answered no, for then he could 
exercise his skill to disarm or render harmless the elements. He asked 
him why he should be so affected now. He replied, "From the awful 
idea of being crushed to death by the hand of God with stones from 
heaven, when resistance would be vain, and when it would be impious 
to be brave." He clasped his hands, raised his eyes to heaven, and ex- 
claimed, " God is great!" 

Up to this hour, late in the afternoon, I have not recovered my com- 
posure ; my nerves are so affected as scarcely to be able to hold my pen 
or communicate my ideas. The scene Avas awful beyond all description. 
I have witnessed repeated earthquakes, the lightning has played, as it. 
were, about my head ; the wind roared, and the waves have at one 
moment thrown me to the sky, and the next have sunk me into a deep 
abyss. I have been in action, and have seen death and destruction 
around me in every shape of horror; but I never before had the feeling 
of awe which seized upon me on this occasion, and still haunts, and I 
feel will ever haunt me. I returned to the beautiful village of Buyuc- 
dene. The sun wt>8 out in all its splendor; at a distance all looked smil- 
ing and charming, but a nearer approach discovered roofs covered with 
workmen repairing the broken tiles ; desolate vineyards, and shattered 
windows. My porter, the boldest of my family, who had ventured an 
instant from the door, had been knocked down by a hailstone, and had 
they not dragged him in by the heels would have been battered to 
death. Of a flock of geese in front of our house, six were killed, and 
the rest dreadfully mangled. Two boatmen were killed in the upper 
part of the village, and I have heard of broken bones in abundance. 
Many of the thick brick tiles witli which my roof is covered are 
smashed to atoms, and my house was inundated by the rain that suc- 
ceeded this visitation. It is impossible to convey an idea of what it 
was. Imagine to yourself, however, the heavens suddenly frozen over, 
and as suddenly broken to pieces in irregular masses, of from half a 
pound to a pound weight, and precipitated to the earth. My own ser- 
vants weighed several pieces of three-quarters of a pound, and many 
were found by others of upward of a pound. There were many which 
fell around the boat in Avhich I was that appeared to me to be as large 
as the swell of the large-sized water decanter. I have heard of a stout 
tree in my neighborhood, into the crotch of which a mass of ice fell 
which split the tree as though it had been riven by a wedge of iron. 



ACCOUNT OF A HAIL-STOKM IN TEXAS. 477 



ACCOUXT OF A IIAIl-STORM IX TEXAS. 



By Lietttenant George M. Bache, U. S. A. 



One of those terrific hail-storms often heard of, bnt seklom experi- 
enced, visited this city last evening.* Captain A., Doctor B., and my- 
self were returning from a day's fishing some ten miles from San An- 
tonio, in an army ambulance, about 7 p. m., when we first noticed indica- 
tions of rain. Dark clouds were rising in the northwest, accompanied 
with a great deal of what we at first supposed to be heat lightning. 
This gradually became more vivid, the clouds blacker, the thunder be- 
gan to make itself heard, and our first supposition of a light shower 
changed to a certain i)rospect of a severe storm. 

The mules were put to their most rapid gait, with the hope of reach- 
ing town before the tempest assailed us, but to no purpose ; it broke on 
us when we were about two mik\s from home. A fierce wind from about 
due noilh, driving sheets of rain right in our faces, put a stop to any 
further progress, and compelled us to turn the ambulance from the di- 
rection of the storm into the "mesquite" bushes, where we prepared 
ourselves to quietly sit and take the result. Suddenly, however, some- 
thing struck the side of the ambulance, with a noise similar to that of 
a stone violently thrown — another, and another — and now we hear the 
resounding thuds on the bodies of the mules, and the war of the ele- 
ments has commenced in earnest. Neither mule nor man was iirepared 
for this, and the former, beaten to infnriation, dashed off wildly into the 
mesquite bushes. It was impossible to see, and, fearing a capsize and 
a drag in the chaparral, we jumped out, still not realizing what was ui^on 
us; for all this had happened in a few moments of time. 

Continuous blows on the head, body, and legs soon enabled us to real- 
ize the serious natnre of our condition. Stones of ice of all shapes and 
of the size of the fist, cut and bruised our bodies, and with our arms 
crossed above our heads we rushed to secure the slight protection of a 
mesquite bush, there being no trees on the prairie. We were each at 
different times knocked down by blows about the head ; one of us, Cap- 
tain A., three times. Cut, bleeding, bruised, and still with no prospect 
of abatement, not knowing howlong sucii a phenomenon n^ight last, nor 
how soon WT. might be rendered senseless, we felt our situation as by 
no means enviable. 

In the mean time, the mules, which having again headed the storm in 
their fury were nearly stunned by repeated blows on the head and sides, 

* May 10, 1863. 



478 METEOROLOGY. 

came near us, being* driven before tbe storm, but too mucli wealceued to 
move rapidly. We took advantage of this and leaped into the ambu- 
lance, choosing the lesser evil. Providentiallj" the wheels of the car- 
riage became locked in a rail fence, and the mules were too much ex- 
hausted to do any more running. We put the seats over our heads, and 
thus protected, drenched, shivering with cold, and continually beaten 
on the legs and sides, we awaited the subsidence of the storm. The 
falling of the hail lasted twenty-two minutes, commencing at half past 
eight p. m. It was accompanied with heavy rain, bright blinding flashes 
of lightning, and a continuous roar, varied with sharp crashes, of thunder. 
The rain ceased with the hail, but fell very heavily again during the 
niglit, causing a rise of nearly twenty feet in the San Antonio river. 
The curtains of our ambulance were cut to ribbons, and we scarcely 
thought the mules would live through the tempest, but they did, and, 
tliough much bruised and stunned, brought us safely to town. With 
black eyes, bloody heads, smashed hats, bruised .arms, and torn and 
rauddj^ clothes, we ai)peared as if we had just come from a free fight 
and had been very badly used. Indeed, experience only could have 
convinced us that any one could have endured exposure to such a vio- 
lent storm and lived. 

We found our house flooded with water, and all the window panes 
and Venetian blinds on its north side smashed to pieces. Persons who 
were in the house des(iribe the noise of the hail as it struck the roof 
and sides as exceedingly tei-rific. The next morning the town pre- 
sented the appearance of a bombarded city. The houses appeared as it 
thousands of shots had been fired against their walls and roofs at point- 
blank range. The walls of our house, covered with an inch thickness of 
plaster on the outside, show, as in the inclosed jthotograph, tlie iiinumer- 
able dents made by the hail. Shingle roofs were broken by the hail and 
scattered in pieces by the wind. Large holes were cut through tin roofs 
and gutters. Several houses were entirely unroofed ; among others, that 
of General Mason, who, with his family, took refuge in a doorwaj". The 
walls of an old church were blown down and its roof deposited in the 
street. Trees, in some instances, were torn up by the roots, and in 
others thrown down. In one case a hail-stone penetrated the roof of a 
house and did not spend its force until it reached the floor. The trees 
and bushes were entirely stripped of their foliage, and small branches cut 
off. The Indian corn was cut down as if with a scythe, and vegetables 
and flowers beaten into the ground. The largest authenticated stone 
that I have heard of weighed two pounds, though there are various 
reports of five and six-pounders. The stones probably averaged from 
four to eight ounces, and were of the size of the fist and upwards. The 
very large ones, of two pounds and thereabouts, must have been few 
and far between, as nothing could have withstood them. They were 
irregular in shape, as if, in their descent, manj- had been frozen together 
and thus formed one mass as hard as rock. 



ACCOUNT OF A HAIL-STORM IN TEXAS. 479 

A vromau wlio, vritli lier liusl)aii(l, liad camped out on tlie prairie, Lad 
t'^o ribs broken, and was tliought to be fatally injured. A dog was killed 
oiitriglit ; and there are numerous cases of cuts and bruises, more or 
less severe. There are also reports of fatal casualties to liuman life in 
the vicinity, which have not yet been authenticated. The momentum 
of the hail-stones is shown by the fact, as witnessed by myself, of a hole 
about four iuches in diameter through botli sides of a sheet-iron stove- 
X)il)e which rose from the roof of a small out-house in the garden and 
did service as a chimney. Boards of fences were knocked off and split 
in pieces, and trees barked as if by cannon balls. I think the storm of 
hail not to have extended over a path of more tlian two miles in width. 
We hear of the storm having visited other places, but having no com- 
munication, save by stages and a semi-weekly paper, we have not yet 
learned its course. The hail came down at an angle of about 30"^ from 
the horizontal, and lowered the temperature from 90° to G4P Fahrenheit. 
The day had been close and sultry. The temperature again rose after 
the storm, and the stones on the ground were soon melted. 



CONTENTS OF THE REPORT FOR 1870. 



Page. 

Resolution of Congress to i^rint the report 2 

Letter from the Secretary submittiufr report to Congress 3 

List of Regents and members ex officio of the Institution , 5 

Executive ofScers of the Institution G 

Programme of organization 7 

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13 

National museum 13 

Library 14 

Local objects - 14 

Finances 14 

Virginia stock 15 

Services of J. 'M. Carlisle, esq 15 

Publications 15 

Investigations 17 

Exchanges 25 

Freight facilities 26 

Library, addil ions 26 

Explorations and collections 29 

Museum 31 

Herbarium •.....: 36 

Agreement with Department of Agriculture 39 

Work done in connection -with collections 40 

Meteorology 42 

Visit to Europe 45 

APPENDIX TO REPORT 01' THE SECRETARY 46 

Entries in mu.seum record-books iu 1S69 and 1870 46 

Distribution of duplicate specimens 46 

Additions to the collections iu 1870 47 

Statistics of literary and scientific exchanges 53 

Packages sent from America to foreign institutions 54 

Packages received from foreign institutions 56 

List of meteorological stations and observers for the year 1670 65 

Colleges and institutions furnishing meteorological observations 74 

- Meteorological material received in addition to regular observations 75 

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, with receipts, expenditures, 

and estimates ., 81 

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 85 

GENERAL APPENDIX. 

EULOGY ON ALEXANDER DALLAS BACHE. By Prof. Joseph Henry.... 91 

LECTURE ON SWITZERLAND. By Alexander Dallas Bache 117 

ON A PHYSICAL OBSERVATORY. By Prof. Joseph Henry 141 

THE HISTORY OF MY YOUTH. An autobiography of Francis Arago 145 

EULOGY ON HERSCIIEL. By M. Arago ." 197 



482 CONTENTS. 

LIFE AND LABORS OF HENEY GUSTAVUS MAGNUS. From tho Ar- ^^^' 
chives des sciences physiques ct uaturellcs, Geneva 223 

SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF PROF. CHESTER DEWEY, D. D., LL. D. 
By Martin B. Anderson, LL. D., president of the University of Rochester. .. 231 

THOUGHTS ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF FORCE. By William B. 
Taylor 241 

INDUCTION AND DEDUCTION : A discourse by Justus Baron Von Liebeg, 
delivered in the Royal Academy of Sciences, Munich 258 

ADDRESS ON THE RELATION OF FOOD TO WORK, AND ITS BEAR- 
ING ON MEDICAL PRACTICE. By Rev. Samuel Haughton, of Dublin.. 263 

HYDROGEN AS A GAS AND AS A METAL. Notes of a lecture delivered 
in the theater of the Royal Dublin Society. By Dr. J. Emerson Reynolds. . 295 

A LECTURE ON THE IDENTIFICATION OF THE ARTISAN AND ART- 
IST. By Cardinal Wiseman 301 

THE DIAMOND AND OTHER PRECIOUS STONES. By M. Babiuet 333 

ETHNOLOGY 3C4 

On the language of tho aboriginal Indians of America. By George 
Gibbs 364 

On antiquities in some of the Southern States. By H. C. Williams 367 

Ethnology of the Indians of the valley of the Red River of the North. 

By Dr. W.H.Gardner 369 

Account of antiquities in tho state of Vera Cruz, Mexico. By Hugo Finck, 

of Cordova - 373 

Account of antiqTiities in Tennessee. By E. O. Dunning 376 

Account of ancient mounds in Georgia. By M. F. Stephenson, Gaines- 
ville, Georgia 380 

Explorations in Tennessee. By E. A. Dayton , 381 

Some account of the sarcophagus in the national museum, now in charge 

of the Smithsonian Institution. By Rear Admiral A. A. Harwood, 

United States Navy 384 

Account of the discovery of a stone image in Tennessee, now in possession 

of the Smithsonian Institution. By Edw. M. Grant 385 

On mixed races in Liberia. By Edw. D. Blyden 386 

On shell-heaps. By Rev. James Fowler, of New Brunswick 339 

On tho uses of the brain and marrow of animals among the Indians of 

North America. By Titian R. Peale 390 

Report of an exploration of ancient mounds in Union County, Kentucky. 

By Sidney S. Lyon 392 

Sketch of ancient earthworks on the Upper Missouri. By A. Barrandt, 

civil engineer, of Sioux City 406 

Account of aboriginal ruins at Savannah, Tenncissee. By J. Parish Stelle. 403 

Account of aboriginal ruins on the Williiinis farm, in Hardin County, 

Tennessee, two miles belovr Savannah, Tennessee. By J. Parish Stelle. 416 

TERRESTRIAL PHYSICS 421 

The earthquake in Peru, August 13, 1868. By J. V. Campbell 421 

The electro-magnetic seismograph. By Prof. Palmieri, of tho University 

of Naples 425 

On the distribution of forest trees in Montana, Idaho, and Washington. 

By W. W. Johnson 428 

Iniiueucc of tho aurora on the telegraph. By ^Y. D. Sargent 430 

METEOROLOGY 432 

New classilication of clouds. By Prof. Andre Pcey - 432 



CONTENTS. 483 

Paso. 

On the evaporation observed at Palemio in 1865 and 1866. By P. Tr.ccbini . 457 
On the electricity of induction in tbo aerial strata of the atmosplicre, 
■which, in the shape of a ring, surround a cloud that is resolving into 

rain, suovr, or hail. By Prof. Fr. Zantcdcschi 4GC 

On the presence of electricity during the fall of rain. By Prof. Palmieri, 

of the Vesuvius Observatory 409 

Clnnato of Kansas. By Pt. S. Elliott 472 

Account of a hail-storm on tbo Bospborus. From Porter's Constan- 
tinople 475 

Account of a bail-storm in Texas. By Lieutenant George M. Bacbc 477 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Page. 

Figure 1. Absorption of hydrogen by palladium - . 298 

Figure 2. Absorption of hydrogen by palladium 293 

Figure 1. Ruins in Vera Cruz 374 

Figures 1 and 2. Ancient mounds in Union County, Kentucky 393 

Figure 3. Ancient mounds in Union County, Kentucky 396 

Figure 4. Ancient mounds in Union County, Kentucky ,. 398 

Figure 5. Ancient mounds in Union County, Kentucky 399 

Figure 6. Ancient mounds in Union County, Kentucky 401 

Figure 1. Aboriginal ruins at Savannah, Tennessee 408 

Figure 1. Aboriginal ruins on the Williams fixrm, near Savannah, Tennessee 417 

Figure 1. Wind-currents in Kansas 473 

Figures 1 aud 2. Illastratious of clouds. Cirrus, (Howard.) curl-clouds, fiicing 443 

Figure.s 3 and 4. Illustrations of clouds. Cirrus, (Howard,) curl-clouds, facing 443 

Figures 5 and 6. Illustrations of clouds. Cirro-stratus, (Howard,) ice-clouds, facing 444 
Figures 7 and 8. Illustrations of clouds. Cirro-cumulus, (Howard,) curdled gky, 

facing 445 

Figures 9 and. 10. Illustrations of clouds. Pallio-cirnis, (Poey,) sheet or snow 

cloud, facing 447 

Figures 11 and 12. Illustrations of cloudfi. Cumulus, (vel curaulo-stratns,) mount 

cloud, facing 448 

Figures 13 aud 14. Illustrations of clouds. Fracto-cumulus, (Poey,) wind-clouds, 

f^iciug 449 

Figure 1.5. Illustrations of clouds. Cirro-cumulus-stratus, (Poey.) facing 450 

Figure 16. Illustrations of clouds. Cirro-strato-cumulus, (Poey,) facing 450 

On the evaporation observed at Palermo in 1865 and 1866. By P. Tacchini 457 

On the electricity of induction in the aerial strata of the atmosphere, which, in the 

shape of a ring, surround, a cloud that is resolving into rain, snow, or hail. By 

Prof. Fr. Zautedeschi 436 

On the presence of electricity during the fall of rain. By Prof. Palmieri, of the 

Vesuvius Observatory 469 

Climate of Kansas. By R. S. Elliott 472 

Account of a hail-storm ou the Bosphorus. From Porter's Constantinople 475 

Account of a hail-storm in Texas. By Lieutenant George M. Bache 477 



INDEX. 



Page. 

Abbe, Professor C, meteorological services 44 

Aboriginal rnins at aud near Savannah, Tennessee, by J. P. Stelle 408, 416, 417 

Aboriginal rnins. (See Ethnology) 

Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, aid to Sumichrast's exploration 30 

Accounts, report of Committee on 84 

Adams Express, acknowledgment to 2G 

Additions to collections in 1870 47 

Africa, mixed races in 386 

Agassiz, Professor, museum of 33 

Regent 5 

Agricultural Department, agreement with, as to herbarium 39 

AlgiB, Bailey on 37 

fresh-vrater. Dr. "Wood on 21 

marine. Dr. Harvey on 21 

Altitudes, material collected relative to 24 

American distribution of i>acliages from foreign institutions 56 

Oriental Society, reference of Morgan's memoir 17 

Pliilosoi)hical Society, publication by, of Choctavv^ grammar 20 

Amsterdam, exchange agency .53 

Anchor Line, thanks to, for free frieght 26, 86 

Ancient earth-works on the Upper Missouri 406 

mounds in Georgia 380 

mounds. (See Ethnology) 

Anderson, Martin B., life of Chester Dewey 231 

Anthropology, Smithson collection unsurpassed 35 

Antiquities in Southern States, by II. C. Williams 337 

Tennessee, account of, by E. O. Dunning 376 

Vera Cruz 373 

(See Ethnology) 

Apx^endix, containing lectures, &c ' 89 

to the rex^ort of the Secretary 46 

Appropriations by Congress for National Museum 82, 13 

for 1871 83 

resolution of Regents relative to 13 

Arago, Francis, autobiography of 145 

Arago's biography of William Herschel 197 

Arica and Tacua Railroad earthquakes 421 

Army Medical Museum, exchanges with 30 

Art Gallery, Mr. Corcoran's 14 

Artisan and artist, lecture on, by Cardinal Wiseman 301 

Astronomical investigations of Newcomb 17 

Astronomical observatories. Professor Henry on 141 

Atmometers, description of 4.57 

Aurochs, from Vienna 31 

Aurora, inHueuco of, on telegraph 430 

Autobiography of Francis Arago 145 



486 INDEX. 

Page. 

Bfibinet on the diamond and other precious stones 333 

Bache, Alexander Dallas, eulogy on, by Professor Henry 91 

lecture on Switzerland, by 117 

list of scientific jiapers, by 103 

Bache, Lieutenant G. M., account of hail-storm in Texas 477 

Bailey, Professor, on algie !.. 37 

Baird, S. F., Assistant Secretary, in charge of museum, exchanges, &c G 

investigation of shell-heaps, &c 29 

systematic description of land birds of Pacific States 40 

Bannister, Henry M., clerk, in charge of meteorological records 6 

Barnard, General J. G., memoirs by, on i>recession, gyroscope, &c 18 

on motions of pendulum 18 

on precession and nutation aflected hy internal struc- 
ture of the earth 19 

Barraudt, A., ancient earthworks on Upper Missouri 406 

Bequest of Smithsou 81 

Berkely, Dr., on fungi , 37 

Binncy, W. G., bibliographj' of North American Conchology 22 

land and fresh-water shells 22 

Biography of Francis Arago 145 

Chester Dewey 231 

Henry Gustavus Magnus 223 

William Herschel 197 

Birds, arrangement of families of 22 

circular relative to 22 

in museum, 4,154, mounted and on exhibition AG 

Bland, T., examination of shells 31 

land and fresh-water shells 22 

Blyden, Edward D., on mixed races in Liberia 386 

Bosphorus, account of hail-storm on 475 

Bossauge, Gustavo, exchauges with 53 

Boston Society of Natural History, aid to Sumichrast's exploration . 30 

Botanist of Agricultural Department and Smithsonian Institution 39 

Botany of region west of Mississippi 23 

Brackenridgc, W. D., on ferns 37 

Brain and marrow of animal, uses of, among the Indians 390 

Brewer, Dr. T. M., ornithology of North America 41 

Brinton, Dr., revision of Choctaw grammar 20 

Brown, Solomon G., clerk, in charge of transiaortation 6 

Building, expenditures on 82 

space in, for museum 34 

Byington, Dr., Choctavr grammar' and dictionary 20 

California, geological survey 40 

Campbell, John V., account of earthquake in Peru 421 

Caprou, Horace, agreement with 40 

Carlisle, James M., services rendered as counsel 15 

Carpenter, P. P., arrangement of shells 42 

Catalogue of publications of societies and of periodical works 22 

Chief clerk, apxiointment of 87 

Choctaw grammar and dictionary, by Dr. Byington 20 

Christiania, exchange agency , 53 

Circular relating to collections in archfcology and ethnology 22 

relative to collections of birds from middle and South America 22 

to ethnologists 22 



INDEX. ^ 487 

Pago. 

Circiilar to officers of Hudson's Bay Comijany 22 

Clark, Edward, architect, services in relation to building 36 

Cleavcland, Parker, meteorological observations at Brunswick, Maine 16 

Climate of Kansas, by R. S. Elliott 472 

Clouds, new classification of, by Prof. A. PoL'y 432 

Coffin, James II., orbit and phenomena of meteoric fire-ball 16 

work ou winds 43 

Collections, list of additions to 47 

Colleges furnishing meteorological reports 74 

Colonial Museum, New Zealand, collections from 30 

Congress, resolution of Regents asking for $10,000 from "L 85 

resolution of, to j)rint report 2 

Consanguinity, systems of 16 

Contributions to Knowledge, contents of 16th and 17tb volumes 16 

Cooke, Governor Henry D., Regent of the Institution 88 

Coopei", Dr. J. G., ornithology of Califoruia 41 

Copenhagen, exchange agency 53 

Cope, Professor E. D., examination of reptiles and fish 31 

Copyright law 28 

Corcoran's Art Gallery 14 

Cox, Hon. S. S., acts of, as Regent 85, 88 

Curtis, M. A., on fungi 37 

Dall, W. H., labors in museum, and investigations 23, 41 

translations by 24 

Dayton, E. A., explorations in Tennessee 381 

Dean, John, medulla oblongata. 16 

Deduction and induction, by Liebeg 258 

Delafield, General Richard, acts of, as Regent 85 

resignation as Regent 87 

resolution of Board relative to , . . . 87 

De Saussure, monograph of hymenoptera 22 

Dewey, Professor Chester, life of 231 

Diamonds and precious stones, by M. Babiuet 333 

Diptera, monographs of 22 

Distribution of duplicate specimens 46 

forest-trees in Montaua, Idaho, and Washington 428 

Donation of $1,200 to print Stockwell's memoir 20 

Donations of meteorological material 75 

to collections in 1870 47 

Dow, Captain, collections from 29 

Dredging, by Professor Webster 29 

Dunning, E. O., account of antiquities in Tennessee 376 

Duplicate specimens, number of, distributed 46 

Durkee, Mr., collections from 29 

Earth, internal structure of 19 

Earthquake in Peru, account of 421 

instruments for registering 425 

Electricity during rain, by Palmieri 469 

of induction during rain, by Zautedeschi ." - 466 

Electro-magnetic seismograph 425 

Elliott, R. S., climate of Kansas 472 

Emery, M. G., acts of, as Regent 86 

Entomology, works on 22 

Entries in record-books of museum , 46 



488 INDEX. 

Page. 

Estimates for 1871 83 

Ethnological circular 22 

Etbuology, articles on 364 

of Red River Indians 3C9 

Eulogy on Professor A. D. Bache, by Professor Joseph Henry 91 

Europe, Secretary's visit to 45 

Evaporation at Palermo, hj' P. Tacchim 457 

Evaporators, description of 457 

Exchanges, account of 25 

statistics of, in 1870 53 

Executive committee, report of 81 

report presented to Regents 86 

vacancy in, filled by General Sherman 88 

Expenditures during 1870 82 

statement in detail 82 

Explorations and collections in 1870 29 

(See Ethnology) 364 

in Tennessee, by E. A. Dayton 381 

of mounds in Union County, Kentucky 392 

Finances, condition of 14 

report on 81 

Finck, Hugo, antiquities in Vera Cruz, Mexico 373 

Fire-ball, orbit of . . : 16 

Fish, examination of 31 

Flugel, Dr., statistics of exchanges - 53 

Food, relation of, to work 268 

Force, on the nature and origin of, by W. B. Taylor 241 

Foreign correspondents, number of 25 

distribution of American packages 54 

Forests, distribution of, in Montana, Idaho, and Washington 428 

Fossils, reports on, by Mr. Meek - - 41 

Fossil-wood in Tennessee 419 

Fov.ier, Rev. James, on shell-heaps 389 

Francklyn, C. G., acknowledgment to 26 

Fungi, Curtis on 37 

Fund, statement of • 81 

Gardner, Dr. W. H., ethnology of Indians of Red River 369 

Garlield, Hon. J. A., acts of, as Regent 85, 86 

resolution of thanks to steamship lines 86 

resolution relative to chief clerk 87 

resolution requesting Secretary to give account of his tour. 86 
resolution to apply to Congress for §10,000 for care of col- 
lections - 85 

Geological exploration of Louisiana, by Professor Hilgard 20 

survey of California - - 40 

Georgia, ancient mounds in 380 

Gibbs, George, language of Indians ., 364 

Gill, Professor Theodore, arrangement of mollusks 23 

assistant in library 23 

investigations by 23 

Gliddon mummy-case 1*^ 

Gould, B. A., transatlantic longitude 16 

Government collections, act ion of Regents relative to 85 

Governor of Territory of District of Columbia to be a Regent 88 



INDEX. 489 

Page. 

Grant, Edward M., account of stone image from Tennessee 385 

Gray, Professor A., on i)lauts 37 

Green, Professor W. H., reference to, of Morgan's memoir IG 

Grounds, expenditure on 14 

Gyroscope, papers on, by General Barnard 16 

Hadley, Professor, reference to, of Morgan's memoir 17 

Hail-storm in Texas 477 

on the Bospliorus 475 

Hamlin, Hon. H., acts of, as Regent 8G, 88 

Harvey, Dr., on marine alga) 21, 37 

Harwood, A. A., account of sarcophagus 384 

Hauglitou, Kev. Samuel, lecture on relation of food to work 2G8 

Hawkiu.s, B. Waterhouse, illustrations to be i)repared by 88 

Hayden, Dr. F. V., collections from 29 

report on fossils 41 

Heights, map of 24 

Hemiptera, by P. E. Uhler 23 

Plenderson and Brother, thanks to 20 

Henry, Professor Joseph, acts of, as Secretary of Board 85, 86, 83 

eulogy on Professor Bacho 91 

* on a i^hysical observatory 141 

rejjort of 13, 88 

Secretary and Director 6 

visit to Europe 85 

Herbarium, account of 36 

agreement as to transfer 39 

Herron, Joseph, janitor of the museum ... (5 

Herschel , William, biography of.' 197 

Hildreth, S. P., meteorological observations at Marietta, Ohio 16 

Hilgard, Professor E. W., geology of Louisiana .-. 20 

Hitz, John, notes on Switzerland 117 

Hudson's Bay Company, circular 22 

Hydrogen as a gas and as a metal, by Dr. J. Emerson Eeynolds 295 

Hymenoptera, DeSaussure on 22 

Idaho, forests in ,. 428 

Image, account of stone, from Tennessee 385 

Imperial Academy, St. Petersburg, plants from 40 

Improvements, account of, in building 83 

Income from fund 15, 81 

Indian use of brain and marrow in animals 390 

Indians, language of, by George Gibbs 364 

of Cape Flattery, account of 16 

of Eed Eiver, ethnology of 369 

Induction and deduction, by Justus Baron von Liebeg 258 

electricity of, in rain 466 

Insects, examination of -^ 31 

Institutions furnishing meteorological reports 74 

Insurance of $10,000 on building 86 

Interior Dei)artment, funds from 82 

International exchanges 25, 53 

Italian exchanges, free freight of 86 

Italy, free admission of i^arcels to 25 

Johnson, W. \V., distribution of forests in Montana, Idaho, and Washington.. 428 

Jones, Strachau, collections from 30 



490 INDEX. 

Pago. 

Jonrual of proceediugs of Kogcuts 85 

Kansr.s, climate of, by R. S. Elliott 472 

Kcutucky, esploratiou of mounds in Union County 392 

University, aid to Sumiclirast's exploration 30 

King, Clarence, report on birds 11 

report on fossils 41 

Language of the aboriginal Indians of America, by George Gibbs 334 

Latitudes and longitudes of stations jt G5 

Lawrence, George N., examination of birds 31 

Lecture on hydrogen, by J. E. Eeynolds 295 

on identilication of the artisan and artist, by Cardinal AVifseman 301 

on relation of food to yrork, and its bearing on medical practice 268 

on Switzerland, by Professor Bacho 117 

Leech, D., clerk, in charge of correspondence G 

Leix^sic, exchange agency 53 

Letter of Professor Henry submitting report to Congress 3 

Letter of Professor Henry on a, Physical Observatory 141 

Liberality of railroad and steamboat lines 26 

Liberia, on mixed races in ., 386 

College, statistics of 386 

Library, additions to, in 1870 ." 2G 

incorporated with that of Congress 14 

Lichens, Tuckerman on 37 

Liebeg, Justus Baron von, on induction and deduction 258 

Life of Arago 145 

lierschel 197 

Magnus 223 

Dewey 231 

Liverpool Museum 33 

Lockhart, James, collections from 30 

Lockyer's observations 144 

London exchange agency 53 

Longitude, transatlantic 16 

Louisiana, geology of 20 

Lyon, Sydney S., exploration of mounds in Union County, Kentucky 392 

]^IacFarla,ne, R., collections from 30 

Maclean, Rev. Dr. John, acts of, as Regent 85, 86 

report of executive committee 84 

SIcIlvaine, Professor, reference to, of Morgan's memoir 16 

MacMinn, James, donation of plants from 40 

Magnus, Henry Gustaviis, life and labors of 223 

IVIammals, live hundred mounted and on exhibition 46 

Map of North American continent, Avith altitudes 24 

^larsh, Hon. G. P., services of, in procuring free admission of Italian i^ackages. 25 

Mayor of Washington, offiee of, ceased to exist 88 

Medical Department, United States Army, meteorological system 42 

co-oi>eration with 30 

Medical practice, relation of food to Vv'ork, and its bearing on 268 

Medulla oblongata. Dean on ^ 16 

Meek, F. B., palffiontological labors 41 

Members, ex officio, of the Institution 5 

Meteorology, articles on 432 

what the Institution has done in regard to 43 

Meteorological material received in addition to regular observations 75 



INDEX. 491 

Page. 

Meteorological obserTations of Dr. Hildvcth IG 

of Professor Cleaveland 1(5 

registers from colleges aud institutions 74 

stations and observers G.5 

system, account of 42 

of Signal Corps 44 

should be extended by Congress and 

include Smithsonian 44 

Mexican boundary survey, botany of. 38 

Mexico, account of antiquities in 373 

Milan, exchange agency 53 

Miscellaneous collections, contents of volumes 8 and 9 22 

Missouri, ancient earthworks in 406 

Mixed races in Liberia 386 

Mollusks, arrangement of families of, by Professor Gill 23 

Montana, forests iu 428 

Morgan, Lewis H., systems of consanguinity 16 

Mosses, W. S. Sullivant on 37 

Mounds. (See Ethnology) 304 

Madge, Professor, report on fossils 41 

Mliller, Fred., exchanges with 53 

Mummy-case, account of 16 

Museum, appropriations by Congress for 13 

entries iu record-books 46 

list of additions to 47 

miscellanea ■. 22 

Museums, general views relative to 31 

Myer, General A. J., meteorological system of , 44 

National library 28 

musenm, nature of 13, 34 

Neptune, Newcomb's orbit of 17 

New Brunswick, shell-heaps in 389 

Newcomb, Professor, account of investigation relative to Uranus 17 

New Orleans Academy of Sciences, geological explorations by 21 

New Zealand, collections from 30 

Nicholson, "W. L., work on altitudes 24 

North German Lloyd, acknowledgment to 26 

North Pacific exploring exj^edition, botany of 37 

Norton, Edward,, on hymenoptera 22 

Observatory, physical, Professor Henry's letter relative to 141 

Observers, list of meteorological 65 

Oelrichs & Co., ackno wedgment to 26 

Ofiticers of the Institution 6 

Ohio geological survey 41 

Orbits of planets, secular variations of 19 

Ornithology, Dall's compilation of notes on 41 

Orthoptera, catalogue of 22 

Osteusacken, 11., monograph of diptera of North America 22 

Pacific Eailroad explorations, botany of .- 38 

Palaiontology, Meek's researches 41 

Palermo, evaporation at, by Tacchini 457 

Palmer, Dr. Edward, ethnological labors 30 

Palmieri, Professor, on electricity during rain 469 

OH the electro-magnetic seismograph 425 



492 INDEX. 

Page. 

Paris excliiiuge agency 53 

Parker, Hon. P., report of Executive Committee iireseuted by 87 

acts of, as Eegent 85, 86, 83 

report of Executive Committee 84 

Peale, Titian R., on uses of the brain and marrow of animals by Indians 390 

Pendulum, motions of, by General Barnard 18 

Peru, earthquake in 421 

Physical observatory, Professor Henry's letter relative to 141 

Physics, terrestrial '. 421 

Pickering, Charles Gliddon, mummy-case 16 

Plan of organization 7 

Plants, account of collection of 34 

list of, by Sereuo Watson 23 

presented to foreign museums 39 

Poey, Professor Andre, new classitication of clouds 432 

Porter, Commodore, hail-storm on the Bosphorus 475 

Poland, Hon. L. P., acts of, as Eegent 85, 86, 88 

resolution relative to General Delafield 87 

Precession of the equinoxes, &c., by General Barnard 18 

Precious stones, M. Babinet on 333 

Printing report ordered by Congress 2 

Proceedings of Board of Eegeuts 85 

Programme of organization of the Institution 7 

Publications, classes of 15 

Rain, account of work on 42 

electrtcity of induction during rain 4G6 

Races in Liberia 3SG 

Receipts during 1870 81 

Record of specimens received 46 

Reintz, Dr., plants from 40 

Regents of the Institution, list of 5 

journal of proceedings of , 85 

Report, contents of, for 1889 24 

extra copies of 23 

new editions from stereotype plates desired 24 

of the Executive Committee ■ 81 

of the Secretary 13 

of Secretary presented to Regents 88 

Reptiles, examination of ^ 31 

Resolution of Congress to print report 2 

Resolutions of Regents 12, 85 

Rhees, William J., chief clerk, in charge of accounts, printing, and general 

business 6, 87 

Rich, William, on flowering plants 37 

Ridgeway, Robert, ornithology of North America 41 

Ringgold and Rogers, North Pacific explorations 37 

Ring, Lieutenant, collections from 30 

Royal Danish Society of Sciences, exchanges with 53 

Istituto Lombard! di Science e Lettere, Milan, exchanges with 53 

Swedish Academy of Sciences, exchanges with 53 

University of Norway, exchanges with 53 

Salt deposit of Louisiana 21 

Sarcophagus in National IMuseum, Admiral Harwood's account of 384 

Sargent, W. D., on influence of the aiu'ora on telegraph 430 



• INDEX. 493 

Pase. 

Savaunali, Tenuossee, autiqnitics at 417 

Scammon, Captain C. M., collections from , 30 

Schott, Charles A., meteorological reductions 42 

Schumacker & Co., acknowledgment to 26 

Scudder, Samuel H., catalogue of ortlioptera 22 

examination of insects 31 

Seals, Scammon on habits of 30 

Secretary, report of, for 1S70 13 

visit of, to Europe 45 

Seismograph, electro-magnetic 42o 

Shells, arrangement of 23, 41 

Binney and Bland on 22 

examination of 31 

Shell-beds in Tennessee 414 

Shell-heaps, exploration of 29,389,414 

in New Brunswick 3S9 

Sherman, General W. T., acts of, as Regent 88 

election as Regent by Congress, for sis years 83 

Signal Office, weather reports of 44 

Smithson's bequest - 7, 14 

books of, to be preserved in metallic case 83 

Specimens, distributed 46 

number of entries of 46 

Spoftord, A. R., co-operation with 28 

Stearns, Dr. John, translation by 333 

Stelle, J. P., aboriginal ruins in Tennessee 408, 416 

exploration of mounds in Tennessee 29, 408, 416 

Stephenson, M. F., mounds in Georgia • 380 

Sternberg, C. H., collections from 30 

Dr. G. M., collections from 30 

Stevenson, Professor, fossils from 41 

Stockholm, exchange agency. . . .^ 53 

Stockwell, John N., secular variations of orbits of planets ' 20 

St. Petersburg Academ.y, donations from 40 

Imperial Academy, plants from 40 

Suggestions relative to objects of scieutiflc investigation in Russian America. 22 

Sullivant, Vi. S., on mosses 37 

Sumichrast, Professor, explorations by 30 

Swan, James G., Indians of Cape Flattery '. 16 

Switzerland, lecture on, by Professor A. D. Bache 117 

notes on, by Mr. Hitz 117 

Tacchini, P., on evaporation at Palermo 457 

Tacua, earthquake in 421 

Taylor, W. B., on the nature and origin of force 241 

Telegraph, influence of aurora on 430 

Temiierature, account of work on 1 42 

Tennessee, aboriginal ruins in, by J. P. Stelle 408, 416 

account of antiquities 376 

account of stone image from 385 

explorations in, by E. A. Dayton 381 

Terrestrial physics 421 

Texas, hail-storm in . - : 477 

Thoughts on the nature and origin of force 241 

Torrey, Dr. John, account of herbarium 36 



494 INDEX. , 

Page. 

Transportation facilities 2G 

Trumbull, Hon. L., acts of, as Regout 85 

Professor, reference to, of Morgan's memoi r 17 

Tuckennan on lichens 37 

Turner, J. A., clerk, in charge of records of exchanges - G 

Uhler, P. R., on heniiptera <i3 

Union County, Kentucky, mounds in 392 

Union Pacific Eailroad, acknowledgment to 2G 

University of Louisiana, geological explorations by 21 

Uranus, Newcomb's orbit of 17 

Vera Cruz, account of antiquities in 373 

Vienna, Imi)erial Zoological Museum, donation from 31 

Virginia stock and interest !■> 

Vocabulary of Intlian languages ...„ 3G4 

Washington Library 29 

Territory, forests in . . , 423 

Watson, Sereno, list of plants by 23 , 

Weather-reports, Government system of 44 

practicability of, first shown by Smithsonian 43 

Webster, Professor H. E., dredging by 29 

Wesley, William, exchanges vrith 53 

Whitney, Professor, reference to, of Morgan's memoirs 17 

Wilkes's exploring expedition, botany of 37 

Will of Smithson - . 7 

Williams farm, Tennessee, antiquities 416 

H. C, account of antiquities in Southern States 367 

Winds, account of work on 43 

Wiseman, Cardinal, lecture on identification of artisan and artist 301 

Wood, Dr. Horatio C, on fresh-water algce 21 

Woodward's Museum, California 34 

Wright, Charles, botanical explorations 33 

Young, Clarence B., clerk and bookkeeper G 

Young Men's Christian Association lectures 29 

Zantedcschi, Professor F., electricity of induction 4G6 



V;i 



'^"O'l 



-C 



S^^^^^^^o^-^^lw'^ 



v-^ 



.5?a*; 



_^^1 



f '»< 



•• ' 



f^ 



/ 



*m . •■wif c< 



,! \\ 



•4U^'S 



