





m^ <.rec::«-^<^-^ 












^c <; «I:,C 






% «r< c,*.c 



i^" -^'^. 






^ oaacc^' ' 









c^ts, <3e<*c -^^^ J ^<fc<<: *«^ ^<^ 






. <- c -^ 



C <Jr--' '**— '"^- .-- ,*V^.'^ ^^r^.- *■ 



€^Si 















?<c:,^«^^>; 






"-ssm^i 



^i^^'^<^ 












fe^^^ 



15fe ^ < 









Special Session. [ SENATE. ] Miscellaneous. 

March, IS-'A. No. 1. 



FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THE 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



OF 



THE S3IITHS0IIAI INSTITUTIOK, 



TO THE 



SENATE AND HOUSE REPRESENTATIVES, 



showing the 



OPERATIONS, F.XPC.NDITURCS, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION, 



DURING THE Yf:AR J850. 



March 1, 1S51, 

Read. 

March?, 1851. 

Ordered, that the Ilepnrt of the Smithsonian Institution be printed; and that three thousajid 

additional copies lie printed — one thousand copies of wliich for llie 

use of the Smithsonian Institii'U'ais. 



WASHINGTON 
1851. 



Smithsonian Institution, March 1, 1851. 
Sir: — I have the honor herewith to transmit to you the Annual Report 
of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, and beg leave to 
request that you will present the same to the Senate of the United States. 
I am very respectfully. 

Your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. William R. King, 

President United States Senate. 



[1 ] 



OFFICERS &c., OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Millard Fillmore, Ex-ofjicio, Presiding Officer of the Institution. 

Roger B. Tanev, Chancellor of the Institution. 

Joseph Henry, Secretary of the Institution. 

Charles C. Jewett, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the Lihrary. 

Spencer F. Eaird, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the Museum. 

Edward Foreman, General Assistant, 

Alex'r. D. Bache, James A. Pearce, Joseph G. Totten, Executive 

Committee. 
Jefferson Davis, Henry W. IIilliarDj Walter Lenox, Building 

Committee. 
W. W. Seaton, Treasurer. 
James Renwick, Jr. Architect. 
Gilbert Cameron, Contractor. 



REGEKTS OF THE IjYSTITUTIOjY. 



Vice President of the United States. 



Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice of the United States. 

Walter Lenox, Mayor of the City of Washington. 

James A. Pearce, Memher of the Senate of the United States. 

Jefferson Davis, Member of the Senate of the United States. 

James M. Mason, Member of the Senate of the United States. 

Henry W. Hilliard, Member of the House of Representatives of the 

United States- 
Graham N. Fitch, Member of the House of Representatives of the 

United States. 
William T. Colcock, Member of the House of Representatives of the 

United States. 



[ 1 ] 4 

RuFUS CnoATE, Citizen of Massachusetts. 

Gideon Hawley, Citizen of New York. 

William C. Preston, Citizen of South Carolina. 

Richard Rush, Citizen of Pennsylvania. 

Alexander D. Bache, Member of National Institute, Washington. 

Joseph G. Totten, Member of National Institute, Washington. 



MEMBERS EX-OFFICIO OF THE IMS T I TUT 10 JT. 



Millard Fillmore, President of the United States 

, Vice President of the United States. 

Daniel Webster, Secretary of State. 
Thomas Corwin, Secretary of the Treasury. 
Charles M, Conrad, Secretary of War. 
William A. Graham, Secretary of the Navy, 
Nathan K. Hall, Postmaster General. 
John J. Crittenden, Attorney General. 
Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice of the United States. 
Thomas Ewbank, Commissioner of Patents. 
Walter Lenox, Mayor of the City of Washington. 



HO.ro RJ2RY MEMBERS. 



Robert Hare, Benjamin Silliman, Washikgton Irtixg. 



[ 1 ] 



FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT 

0/ the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, showing the 
Operations, Expenditures and Condition of the Institution, up to 
J-anuary 1, 1851. 



To the Senate and House of Representatives : 

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing 
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents, 
submit to Congress, as a Report of the operations, expenditures and con- 
dition of the Institution, the following documents: 

1. Annual Report of the Secretary, giving an account of tlie operations of 

the Institution during the year 1850, including Reports from tht 
Assistant Secretaries, relative to the Library and Museum. 

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement of tlip 

proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian Fund, and also a detailed 
account of all the expenditures from the beginning of the Institution 
to the end of i8o0. 

3. Report of the Building Committee, relative to the proo^ress made in 

1850, ill the erection of the Smithsonian edifice, including a Report 
of the Architect on the same. 

4. ]'roc.'edino;s of the Board of Ref]:ents durino; their Fifth Annual Meetino-. 
O. An Appendix. 

Respectfully submitted , 

ROGER B. TANEY, 

Chancellor, 
JOSEPH HENRY, 

Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : — During the past year the several parts of the plan of 
organization have been prosecuted as efficiently as the portion of the in- 
c-ome which could be devoted to them would permit. The financial afftiirj? 
are in a prosperous condition, and though the funds are burthened with 
the erection of a costly building, and the expenditures trammeled by re- 
strictions growing out of the requisitions of the charter of incorporation, 
yet the results thus far obtained, are such as satisAictorily to jirove tliat 
the Institution is doing good service in the way of promoting and diffusing 
knowledge. 

Though the programme of organization has been given in two of the 
annual reports and extensively published in the newsj)aj)ers, its character 
does not appear to be as widely known and as properly appreciated as 
could be desired. Indeed it will be necessary at intervals 1o republish the 
terms of the bequest, and also the general principles of the ])lan which 



[ 1 ] 6 

li;is been adopted, in order that the public may not only be informed of 
what the Institution is accomplishing, but also reminded of what ought 
reasonably to be expected from its operations. Moreover, there is a ten- 
dency in the management of public institutions to lose sight of the object 
for which they were established, and hence it becomes important fre- 
quently to advert to the principles by which they ought to be governed. 
I beg leave, therefore, as introductory to this report, briefly to recapitulate 
some of the ])ropositions of the programme of organization, and to state 
some of the facts connected with its adoption. 

Smithson left his property, in case of the death of his nephew, to whoni 
it was first bequeathed, " to foimd at Washington under the name of the 
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of 
knowledge among men." These are the only words of the testator to 
serve as a guide to ^he adoption of a plan for the execution of his benevo- 
lent design. They are found, however, when attentively considered to 
admit of legitimate deductions sufficiently definite and comprehensive. 

1. The bequest is made to the United States, in trust for the good of 
laanJdnd. 

2. The objecls of the Institution are two-fold; first, to increase, se^ 
eond, to diffuse knowledge; objects which, though often confounded with 
each other, are logically distinct and ought to be separately regarded. 
The first is the enlargement of the existing stock of knowledge by the 
discovery of new truths, and the second is the dissemination of these and 
other truths among men. 

o. No particular kind of knowledge is designated, hence a liberal inter- 
pretation of the bequest will exclude no part of the great domain of science 
and literature from the degree of attention its importance may demand. 

4. Since mankind are to be benefitted by the bequest, any unnecessary 
expenditure on merely local objects, w'ould not be in accordance with the 
ju'oper administration of the trust. 

o. Though the funds are generally considered large, and much is ex- 
pected of them, they are really small in proportion to the demands made 
upon them. The annual income of the bequest, is less than half the cost 
of the publication of a single yearly report of the Patent office. 

G. In order therefore, that the limited income may effect the greatest 
amount of good, it should be expended in doing that which cannot be done 
;is well by other means. 

These views which have commanded the assent of all unprejudiced and 
reflecting persons, who have studied the subject, have been the guiding 
})rinciples in all cases in which I have had any power of direction, and I 
am happy to say they are fully adopted by the present directors and offi- 
cers of the Institution. 

To carry out the design of the testator, various plans were proposed, 
but most of these were founded on an imperfect apprehension of the terms 
of the Will. The great majority of them contemplated merely the diffli- 
.sion of popular information, and neglected the first and the most promi- 
nent requisition of the bequest, namely : the "increase of knowledge." 
The only plan in strict conformity with the terms of the Will, and which 
(^specially commended itself to men of science, a class to which Smithson 
himself belonged, was that of an active living organization, intended prin- 
cipally to promote the discovery and diffusion of new truths by instituting 
original researches, under the direction of suital)le jxirsons, in History, 



7 [ 1 ] 

Antiquiti( s, Ethnology aiul the various branches of Physical Science, and 
by publishing and distributing among libraries and other public institu- 
tions, accounts of the results which might thus be obtained, as well as of 
those of the labors of men of talent which could not otherwise be given 
to the world. 

This plan which was probably in the mind of the donor when he gave 
expression to the few but comprehensive words which indicate the objects 
of the bequest, is found from our experience to be eminently practical. It 
requires no costly building or expensive permanent establishment. Its 
operations, limited only by the amount of the income, are such as to affect 
the condition of man wherever literature and science are cultivated, while 
it tends in this country to give an impulse to original thouglit, which, 
amidst the strife of politics, and the inordinate pursuit of wealth, is of 
all things most desirable. 

It was with the hope of being able to assist Ln the practical develop- 
ment of this plan, that I was induced to accept the appointment of principal 
executive officer of th-e Institution. Many unforeseen obstacles however 
presented fhemselves to its full adoption, and its advocates soon found in 
contending with opposing views and adverse interests, a wide difference 
between what in their opinion ought to be done and what they could actu- 
ally accomplish. 

The plan was novel and by many considered entirely chimerical; indeed 
it could not be properly appreciated except by thos-e who had been devoted 
to original research. Besides this, the law of Congress incorjiorating (he 
Institution, while it did not forbid the expenditure of a part of the. income 
for other objects, autliorized the formation of a Lil)rary, a Museum and a. 
Gallery of Art, and the erection of a building, on a liberal scale, for their 
accommodation. It was indeed the opinion of many that the whole income 
ought to be expended on these objects. The Regents did not consider 
themselves at liberty to disreg-ard the indications of Congress, and the 
opinion expressed in favor of Collections, and after much discussion it 
was finally concluded to divide the income into two equal jiarts, and after 
deducting the general expenses, to devote one half to the active ojieralions; 
set forth in the plan just described; and the other, to the formation of a 
Library, a Museum and a Gallery of Ait. 

It was evident however that the small income of the original bequ(St, 
though in Itself sufficient to do much good in the way of active operation 
was inadequate to carry out this more extended plan; to maintain the 
■staff of. attendants and to defray other contingent expenses incick^ntal to 
a large establishment of this kind. Besides the Secretary and an Assistant 
to attend to the general operations, two principal assistants would be re- 
quired, one to take charge of the Library and the other of the Museum 
of Natural History, and to these sufficient salaries must l)e given to secure 
the services of men of the first reputation and talents in their respective 
lines. It therefore became absolutely necessary that the income should 
'be increased, and in order to do this, "it was proposed to save the greater 
part of the l^if^^ 4:2, 000 of accrued interest which Congress had authorized 
to be expended in a building, by erecting at a cost not to exceed J!r;10,0()0 
the nucleus of an e(H(ice which could l)e expanded as the wants of the 
Institution might require, and to a(hl the remainder to the principal. 

Unfortunately however, for this proposition. Congress had presented, to 
the Institution, the great Museum of the Exploring Expedition, and a 



[ 1] 



8 



majority of the Regents, supposing it necessary, to make immediate pro- 
vision for the accommodation of this gift, had taken preliminary step??, 
previous to my appointment, to construct a large building, and indeed a 
majority of the committee, to which the matter was referred, had deter- 
mined to adopt the plan of the present edifice. Strenuous opposition was 
however made to this ; and as a compromise it was finally agreed to draw 
from the U. S. Treasury ^250,000 of accrued interest, and instead of ex- 
pending this immediately in completing the plan of the proposed building, 
to invest it in treasury notes, then at par, and to finish the building in the 
course of five years, in part out of the interest of these notes, in part out of 
the sale of a portion of them, and also in part out of a portion of tlie 
annual interest accruing on the original bequest. It was estimated that in 
this way, at the end of five years, besides devoting ^250,000 to the build- 
ing, the annual income of the Institution would be increased from ^30,000 
to nearly $40,000, a sum sufficient to carry out all the provisions of the 
programme. 

After the resolutions relative to the division of the iiccm? between 
collections on the one hand and active operations on the other had been 
adopted, and the plan of finance as to the building liad been settled, I 
was reqitested to confer with persons of literary and scientific reputa- 
tion and to digest into the form of a general programme the several re- 
solutions of the Board. In the programme which was thus produced and 
afterwards adopted, it is attempted to harmonize the diTerent proposi- 
tions of the Board and to render them all, library, collections, &c., as far 
as ])Ossible, subservient to a living, active organization. Though a 
valuable library will in time be accumulated, by donation and the ex- 
change of the publications of the Institution, the design at first is to 
jiurchase only such books as are immediately necess«u'y in the other opera- 
tions of the Institution, or which cannot be procured in this country, and 
the Librarian is required to perform other duties than those which pertain 
to the office of an ordinary collector and curator of books. He is directed 
to report on plans of libraries^ and the best method of n a laging them: 
to collect the statistics of the libraries of the United States : to make a 
general catalogue as far as possible of all the books in this country, and to 
j)rocure all the information necessary for rendering the Institution a centre 
of bibliographical knowledge. Instead of attempting to form a. miscella- 
neous collection of objects of nature and art, it is proposed to collect only 
those v/hich will yield a harvest of new results, and to preserve principally 
such as are not found in other collections, or will serve to illustrate and 
verify the Smithsonian public^itions. 

The tendency of an Institution in which collections form a prominent 
object, is constantly towards a stationary condition ' with a given income, 
the time must inevitably come when the expenditures necessary to accom- 
modate the articles with house room and attendance will just equal the 
receipts. There is indeed no plan by V'.'hich the funds of an Institution 
may be more inefficiently expended, than that of filling a costly building 
with an indiscriminate coHection of objects of curiosity, and giving these 
in charge to a set of inactive curators. Happily, the programme of or- 
ganization and the system of expenditure which the Regents have adopted, 
if rigidly adhered to, will prevent this state of things, and happily the spirit 
oi the present directors and officers who are to give the initial form to the 



9 [II 

character of the Institution, is in accordanee with as active operations as^ 
the state of the funds and requisitions of Congress will allow. 

It is to be regretted that Congress did not leave the entire choice of the 
plan of organization to those who were to be intrusted with the manage- 
ment of the bequest, and that instead of the plan of a costly building, there 
had not been adopted the nucleus of a more simple edifice, which could' 
have been modified to meet the wants which experience might indicate. 

The original estimate for the building, furniture and improvement of 
the grounds wr.s ::*^2oO,000, and could the aeti^al cost have been confined 
to this sum, all the results anticipated from the scheme of finance which 
had been adopted, would have been realized at the end of five years.. 
During the past year, however, it has been found necessary, for the better 
protection of the collections, to order the fire proofing of the interior of 
the edifice at an increased expense of ^44,000. This additional di'aft on 
the funds can only be met by extending the time for the completion of 
the building, and even this will require the appro])riation of a portion of 
the income which ought to be devoted to other })urposes. The active 
operations will suffer most by this draft on the income, since it will be 
made for the better accommodation of the Library and the Muscun.i. 

It must not be inferred from the foregoing account, that the affairs of 
the Institution are in an unfavoia.ble coiidition ; on the contrary, though 
they are not in every rcsriect what could be wished, slill, under the cir- 
cumstances I have mentioned, ihev are much betttr than could have been 
anticipated. The funds are in a very prosperous state and all the obsta- 
cles in the way of the usefulness of the establishment, may, by judicious 
management in time be removed. The opposition which v.'as made to the 
building, led to the adoption of tl.e plan of finance to v.'hieh I have here- 
tofore adverted, and from this has been realized much more than could 
have been expected. 

After all the expenditures which have been made on the building, grounds, 
publications, researchts, purchase of books and apjiariitus, not only is the 
original bequest untouched, but there is now on hand upvrards of t'f?200,000 
of accrued interest. This will be sufficient to finish the exterior of the 
building, including all the towera, the interior of the wings, ranges, and a 
})art of the interior of the main edifice; which will afford sufficient accom- 
modation for some yeais to come, ;;nd leave !^?1'jO,()00 to hv added to the 
principal. 

This result has been produced by a i-igid adherence to the determina- 
tion of increasing the annual income, and in accordance with this, and in 
obedience to the direction of the Board of Regents, a petition has been 
])resented to Congress, asking that ^loO^OOO may be taken from the In- 
stitution and placed in the Treasury of the United States, on the same 
terms as those of the acceptance of the oiiginal bequest, never to be es- 
j)ended, and yielding a perpetual interest of six per cent. 

If this petition be granted, all the funds will be permanently and safely 
invested, and the original income will be increased from iiT^:>(),()()0 to nearly 
^40,()()i). Out of this, beside carrying on the more important object of 
the phin, it is proposed to appropriate yearh', a small sum I'or the gradual 
completion of the interior of the building. 

The great importance of a small addition to the income will be evident, 
when it is recollected that a definite sum is annually requirt d to defraj 
the necessary expenses of the establishment, and that after this has been 



[1] 



10 



provied, every addition will tend to produce a greater proportional 
amount of useful effect. The proposed increase will be sufficient to pay 
all the salaries of the officers, and leave the original income in a great 
measure free to be applied to the objects contemplated in the plan. 

At the last meeting of the Board, Professor Baird of Dickinson College, 
Penn'a., a gentleman distinguished for his attainments in science was ap- 
pointed an Assistant Secretary in the department of Natural History. His 
appointment was made at this time, more particularly in order that his 
services might be secured to take charge of the publications and that \\'e 
might avail ourselves of the ample experience which he had gained in this 
line. He entered on his duties in July last, and besides being actively 
engaged in organizing the department of Natural History, he has rendered 
important service in conducting our foreign exchanges and attending to 
the business of the press. This addition to our force was absolutely 
necessary to a more efficient discharge of the duties w'hich devolve on us. 
No person, except from actual experience, can form an idea of the amount 
of labor required for the transaction of the ordinary business. The cor- 
respondence alone, is sufficient to occupy two persons continually during 
the usual office hours. 

During the past year one half of the whole income has been appropri- 
ated to the building, and after deducting the general expenses, the remain- 
der has been equally divided between the two great classes of objects 
designated in the plan. The portion of the income after these divisions, 
which couhl be devoted to any one object has been necessarily small ; for 
example, all that could be expended for researches, pul)]ications and lec- 
tures, and indeed for every thing of Avhich the public at a distance could 
take immediate cognisance has not exceeded §»4,o00, and yet out of 
this sum we have been expected to produce results for which the whole 
income would be entirely inadequate. I trust however, that a proper con- 
sideration of the facts presented in the remainder of this report, will show 
that much has been done in proportion to the means at our command. 

PUBLICATION OP ORIGINAL MEMOIRS. 

The important aid which can be rendered to the promotion of know- 
ledge by the publication, and in some cases by assistance in the prepara- 
tion of important memoirs, is now beyond all question. Experience has 
tlius far abunchmtly shown that much more matter of the most valualde 
character will be presented for publication, free of all charge, than the 
portion of the income devoted to this object will allow us to publish. In- 
deed there is now on hand or in preparation, more material of this kind 
than we shall be able with our limited income, to give to the world in 
two or three years. In vieAV of this fact, I cannot repress the expression 
of regret which I have always felt, that the restrictions arising from the 
requisitions of Congress, do not permit a greater expenditure for this most 
important object. It is chiefly by the publications of the Institution that 
its fame is to be spread through the world, and the monument most be- 
fitting the name of Smithson, erected to his memory. 

Most of the distinguished foreign literary and scientific societies have 
placed the Institution on their list of exchange, and in many instances have 
presented not only the current volume of their transactions, but also full 
sets of the preceding volumes. We have reason to believe that before 



11 [ 1 ] 

the expiraticn of another year, we shall receive in exchange (he transac- 
tions of nearly all the learned societies of the world, and that the Institu- 
tion will be recognized by them as an active co-operator in the promotion 
"of knowledge. Professor Baird hos furnished a list of the literary and 
scientific societies to which the quarto volume^s have been presented. [See 
Appendix.] 

The following ]\Iemoirs, an account of which was given in my last re- 
port have been piinted, or are now in the pre-ss : 
1. Reseai'ches relative to the planet Neptune; by S. C. Walker. 
^. Contributions to the Physical Geograpliy of the United States; hy 

Charles Ellet, Jr. 
o. ]\Iemoir on the Explosiveness of Nitre; by Dr. Rohert Hare. 
4. On the Aboriginal Monuments of the State of New York ; by E. G. 

Squier. 
h. Memoir on the Reciprocal Action of two Giilvanic Currents; by A. 

Secchi, of Georgetown College. 
^^3. On the Classification of Insects, from Enibryological Data; by Professor 

Louis Agassiz. 
7. Monograph of Mosasaurus and the Allied Genera; hy Dr. R. W. Gilthes. 
Besides these, several other papers not described in my last report have 
been printed, and are ready for separate distribution. The first of these 
I shall mention, is by Professor Lieber, of the College, of South Caro- 
lina, on the vocal sounds of Laura Bridgman, the blind and deaf mute, 
whose mind, apparently for ever consigned to darkness, has been almost 
miraculously enlightened, by the sagacity, ingenuity and persevevance of 
Dr. Howe. 

There is perhaps at this time, no living human being wlio offers to the 
psychologist, so attractive an object of study as this individual ; and hence 
every observation relative to her peculiar habits is of great interest. Dr. 
Lieber has, from year to year during his summer vacations, been in the 
habit of visiting Laura Bridgman, and on one occasion, spent three months 
in her immediate neighborhood, for the purpose of studying the sounds 
which she utters as indicative of ideas. These sounds consist principally 
of such as she has voluntarily adopted to designate dillerent individuals. 
The results of the observations given in this paper, are accompanied by a 
series of philosophical deductions and suggestions which cannot fail to 
interest the psychologist and physiologist. This memoir is illustrated by 
an engraved fac simile of a letter from Laura Bridgman's own hand. 

Tlie next paper is by Professor Bailey of West Point. This gentleman 
has rendered himself favorably known to the world of science ])y his re- 
searches on minute animals and plants, which, though mostly unseen by 
the naked eye, are found as widely distributed, and as permanent and defi- 
nite in character as the largest organized objects in nature. This paper 
gives the results of a series of microscopic observations whicdi the author 
made during his sojourn in the southern part of the United States, whither he 
was ordered last winter on account of his health. It designates numerous 
localities of microscopic animals and plants, and furnishes lists of the spe- 
cies found in each. It also contains a series of tables presenting a numlter 
of species with the dilFerent localities where each was found. The sjjecies 
so classed include those of the Desmidiea:*, Diatomacea^, Infusoria^, and 
Algce. Following these is a descrijition of mnnerous other species, most 
oi which are represented by lithograpiiic figures. 



[1 ] 



12 



Among the interesting facts arrived at by the author, are the discovery 
of an extensive stratum of Fossil Infusoria near Tampa Bay, Florida — 
the existence of Infusorise in the rice fields of the south, and the demon- 
stration of the cosmopolite character of many microscopic objects hitherto 
believed to exist only in Europe. 

Another paper by the same author, but presented to the Institution by 
Professor Eache, Superintendent of the U. S. Coast Survey, has reference to 
a microscopic examination of soundings along the eastern coast of the 
United States. Samples of all the materials brought up by the sounding 
apparatus of the coast survey having been carefully preserved by Professor 
Bache in bottles, and so arranged as to present as it were, the surface ge- 
ology of Ihs bottom of the sea within a certain distance from the shore. 
Specimens of these were given to Professor Bailey for microscopic exami- 
nation and the results are presented in this paper. It exhibits the fact of 
a high development of minute organic forms, mainly of Polythalamia, in 
all deep soundings, varying from fifty-one to ninety fixthoms occurring in 
an abundance similar to that in which analogous fossil forms are found in 
the marls under the city of Charleston. It also shows that each locality 
has its predominant species, by means of which alone the region whence 
they wei'e taken may be indicated. Many of the conclusions derived are 
of much interest to the mariner, the geologist and the naturalist.- The 
j)aper closes with.a biiel' description of the genera and species referred to, 
embracing several that are new, the whole accompanied by numerous 
figures. 

In connection with the foregoing may be mentioned a paper by Mr. 
Charles Girard, entitled " A Mono'graph of the Fresh water ^Cotto'ids of 
North America," which has l)een accepted, and will soon be published. 
The species of fish called Cottus gobio, was supposed to be common to 
Europe and America, and thus to form an exception to a general rule in 
regard to the fresh water species of the two continents. It has been dis- 
covered by Mr. Girard and others, that the European species as described 
by Linnceus, is really composed of several, and that while none of these 
are found in North America, we have actually a number of species pecu- 
liar to this country. The memoir contains elaborate descriptions of the 
known species as well as of several new ones, together with copious notes 
on their scientific history, their geographical distribution, affinities with 
each other and with foreign species, anatomical structure, &c. — the v.diole 
illustrated by appropriate figures. It is worthy of remark, that most of 
the hitherto undescribed species presented in this memoir v.-ere collected 
by Professor Baird, and now form a part of the Smithsonian collection. 

Another memoir now in course of preparation, is one which will, of 
itself occupy a considerable portion of one of the quarto volumes of the 
Smithsonian contri[)utions. It aftords an interesting illustration of the 
working of the plan of organization in the way of eliciting important 
scientific knowledge which would not otherwise be produced, or if pro- 
duced, could not be given to the world through any other channel. 

This memoir consists of a description of the marine plants or Algfe, 
which are fi)und along the eastern and southern coasts of the United States, 
and which are deserving of attention, not only on account of their beauty, 
variety and the illustrations they present of the growth and development 
of vegeta!)!e forms, but also on account of their economical value with 
reference to agriculture and the chemical arts. This volurae is in the 



13 [ 1 ] 

course of preparation by Professor Harvey of the University of Dublin, 
Ireland, a gentleman who is recognized as the iirst authority in this branch 
of Botany. He was induced to visit this country by an invitation to lec- 
ture on the Algaa before the Lowell Institute, and by the opportunity 
thus offered him of studying his favorite branch of science in a new region, 
xifter completing his lectures, he made a collection of the marine plants 
of our coast and offered to furnish drawings of the genera and species of 
them with detailed descriptions free of all cost, provided the Institution 
would bear the expense of publication. 

Upon the warm recommendation of some of the principal botanists of 
tliis country, the lihei-al offer of Professor Harvey was accepted, iind he is 
now engaged in making with his own hand the drawings on stone. — 
The preparation of the whole work besides the time expended in collecting 
the specimens, will occupy more than a year. This voluntary contribu- 
tion to knowledge from a man of science may surprise those whose minds 
are not liberalized by philosophical pursuits, and who cannot conceive any 
object in labor unconnected with pecuniary gain. 

It is proposed to color the plates of a part of tlie edition of this work 
and to offer the copies containing them for sale, to assist in defraying the 
heavy expense of the publication, and to issue the work in parts so as to 
distribute the cost through at least three years. 

In achlition to the foregoing an appendix — added to Mr. Squier's paper 
on the ancient monuments of New York — has been printed. Also, there 
has been such an urgent demand for copies of Mr. Ellet's paper on the 
physical geography of the Mississippi Valley, that it has been -thought 
advisable to reprint it and distribute the whole of the fust edition, among 
all persons to whom a knowledge of its contents wouhl be of peculiar 
importance. 

The several papers which have been described in this and the preceding 
report will, when collected together, form the contents of the second and 
])art of the third volume. 

The plan adopted of printing each memoir with a separate title and 
paging has been found to answer a good purpose. There is no delay in 
printing one paper on account of the engraving of the plates of another, 
and long before a volume can be completed, a separate memoir may be 
widely circulated among those most interested in its perusal. As an ex- 
ample of this, I may n\ention that one of the papers which forms part 
of the second volume of the contributions, has already been reprinted in 
the London and Edinl)urg Journal, with due cretlit given to this In- 
stitution. 

REPORTS ON THE PROGRESS OF KNOWLEDGE. 

The income of the Institution as yet, has not l)een sufficient for fully 
reducing to practice this part of (he plan of oiganization. The pre})ara- 
tion of these reports can only i>e entrusted to those who arc familiar with 
the suiijects, and well skilled in the art of composition, and the sirvices 
of such persons cannot be ol>taine(l without an adecpiate reimmeration. Of 
the several reports mentioned at the last meeting of the Board, but one 
has been ])ui)!ished, viz : that on the discovery of the planet Neptune, by 
Dr. B. A. Gould, of Cambridge, editor of the Astronomical Journal. It has 
been stereotyped, and copies distributed amongst all our Meteorologkal 



[ 1 ] 14 

observers and other persons in the country, known to us as being actively 
engaged in promoting the science of Astronomy. 

The preparation of the report on the Forest Trees of North America, 
though delaved in consequence of the absence of the author, Dr. Gray, of 
Harvard University, on a visit to Europe, is still in progress. The illus- 
trations are in the hands of the artists, and the first part will probably be 
published during the present year. The cost of this report on account of 
the elaborate illustrations, will be greater than was at first anticipated, 
consequently the publication of the entire work must necessarily be spread 
over a number of years. It is believed, however, that a consitlerable part 
of the expense will be repaid to the Institution, by the sale of copies at a 
small advance on the original cost. 

The other reports on the Progress of Knowledge mentioned in my last 
communication to the Regents are ready for the press and will be published 
in whole or in part during the present year. 

The Report on the statistics of Libraries of the United States, prepared 
by Professor Jewett, has been ordered to be printed by Congress, as an 
appendix to the Regents' Report. A sufficient number of extra copies will 
be presented to the Institution, for distribution to all the libraries from 
which statistical information was received. It forms a volume of about 
two hundred and twenty-five pages, and will, I am sure, be considered an 
important contribution to Bibliographical Statistics. 

DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLICATIONS. 

We have found considerable difficulty in deciding upon the rules to l)e 
observed in the distribution of the Smithsonian publications. It must 
be evident that from the small portion of the income which can be 
devoted to this object the distribution must be circumscribed. Fifteen 
hundred copies of each memoir have been printed, but this number though 
all that the income could furnish, has not been found sufbcient to meet a 
tenth part of the demand. It should be recollected that though these 
memoirs consist of the results of new investigations of the highest import- 
ance to the well being of man, in extending the bounds of his know- 
ledge of the universe of mind and matter of which he forms a part ; yet 
they are not in all cases of such a character as to be immediately ap- 
preciated by the popular mind, and indeed they are better adapted to 
instruct the teacher than to interest the general reader. They should, 
therefore, be distributed in such a way as most readily to meet the eye of 
those who will make the best use of them in ditfusing a knowledge of 
their contents. 

The following rules have been adopted for the distribution of the quarto 
volumes of collections of memoirs. 

1. They are to be presented to all Learned Societies which publish trans- 

actions and give copies of these in exchange to the Institution. 

2. Also, To all Foreign Libraries of the first class, provided they give in 

excliange, their catalogues, or other publications, or an equivalent 
from their duplicate volumes. 

3. To all Colleges in actual operation in this country ; provided they 

furnish in return, meteorological observations, catalogues of their 
Libraries and of their students, and all other publications issued by 
them, relative to their organization and history. 



15 [1] 

4. To all States and Territories; provided they give in return, copies of all 

docmnents published under their authority. 

5. To all incorporated Public Libraries in tliis country, not included in 

either of the foregoing classes, now containing more than seven thou- 
sand volumes; and to smaller Libraries, where a whole State, or large 
district would be otherwise left unsupplied. 
The author of each memoir receives, as his only compensation, a certain 
number of copies of it, to distribute among his friends, or to present to 
individuals who may be occupied in the same line of research. In this 
way single memoirs are distributed to individuals, and especially to those; 
who are most actively engaged in promoting discoveries. Copies of the 
reports, and also in some cases, of particular memoirs, are sent to all 
meteorological observers. Besides these, we have placed on the list the 
more prominent Academies and Lyceums, as recipients of the minor 
publications. It is also intended, in order to benefit the public more gene- 
rally, to place on sale copies of memoirs and reports, though on account 
of the nuud)er required for the supply of Institutions, we have not as yet,, 
been able to carry this plan into eli'ect. 

No copyright has been taken for the Smithsonian publications ; they are 
therefore free to be used by the compilers of books, and in this way they 
are beginning to reach the general reader and to produce a beneficial effect 
on the public mind.. 

METEOROLOGT. 

The system of meteorology under the direction of the Smithsonian 
Institution, has^ during the last year made good progress. And though the 
whole number of stations has not been much increased, yet the character 
of the instruments adopted, antl consequently, the value of the observa- 
tions, has been improved both in precision and variety. 

This system is intended to embrace, as fiir as possible, the whole surface 
of North America, and to consist of three classes of observers. One 
class, without instruments, to record the changes in the aspect of the sky, 
the direction of the wind, the beginning and ending of rain, the appear- 
ance of the Aurora, &c. Another, in addition to the foregoing, to give an 
account of the changes of temperature, as indicated by the thermometer. 
A third class, furnished with full sets of instruments, to record all changes 
deemed important in the study of meteorology. 

To carry on tliis system, the Institution has received or expects to 
receive assistance from the ibllowing sources: 

1. From the small appropriation made by Congress, to be expended under 

the direction of the Navy Department. 

2. From the appropriations made by ditferent States of the Union. 

3. From the observations made under the direction of the Medical Depart- 

ment of the United States Ai-my. 

4. From the Officers of Her Majesty's service in different parts of the 

British possessions in North America. 

5. From observations made by institutions and individuals, in different 

parts of the continent, wdio report immediately to the Smithsonian 
Institution. 
A small appropriation has been made by Congress lor two years past, to 
be upended under the direction of the Navy Department for meteorolo- 



[1] 



16 



gical purposes ; and Professor Espy, engaged under the act making this 
appropriation, has been directed to co-operate with the Institution, in 
promotion of the common object. Besides the aitl which we have re- 
ceived from Professor Espy's knowledge of tliis subject, the general system 
has been benefitted ia the use of instruments purchased by the surplus 
of the appropriation, after paying the salary of the director and other 
expenses. 

During the last year, Professor Espy has been engaged in a series of 
interesting and valuable experiments, on the variations of temperature, 
produced by a sudden change in the density of air. The results obtained 
are interesting in addition to science, and directly applicable to meteoro- 
logy. The experiments were made in one of the rooms of the Smithso- 
nian Institution, and with articles of apparatus belonging to the collection 
which constituted the liberal donation of Dr. Hare of Philadelphia. An 
account of these investigations will be given to the Secretary of the 
Navy in a report. 

It was mentioned in the last report that the Regents of the University 
of the State of New York, in 1849, made a liberal appropriation of funds 
for the re-organization of the meteorological system of observations, estab- 
lished in 182-3, and that Dr. T. Romeyn Beck, and the Hon. Gideon HaAv- 
ley, to whom the enterprise was entrusted, had adopted the forms and tb« 
instruments, prepared under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Another appropriation has been made for 18-50, and the system has beeji 
carried, during the past year, into successful operation by Professor Guyot, 
late of Neuchatel, in Switzerland. This gentleman, who has established 
a wide reputation as a meteorological observer, by his labors in his ow'n 
country, was recommended to Dr. Beck and Mr. Hawley, by this Institu- 
tion, and employed by them to superintend the fitting up of the instru- 
ments in their places, to instruct the observers in the minute details of 
their duty, and to determine the topographical character and elevation 
above the sea, of each station. 

The whole number of stations which have been established in the State 
of New York is thirty-eight, including those which have been furnished 
with instruments by the Smithsonian Institution, and the Adirondack station 
by the liberality of Archibald Mclntyre, Esq., of Albany. This number 
gives one station to twelve hundred and seventy square miles, or about 
one in each square of thirty-five and a half miles on a side. These sta- 
tions are at very different heights above the level of the sea. They were 
selected in conference with Dr. Beck, Professor Guyot and myself. The 
state is naturally divided into the following topographical regions, namely : 

1. The Southern or Maritime region. 

2. The Eastern, or region of the Highlands and Catskill mountains, with 

the valleys of the Hudson and Mohawk rivers. 

3. The Northern or region of the Adirondack mountains, isolated by the 

deep valleys of the Mohawk, Lake Cliamplain, the St, Lawrence 
and Lake Ontario. 

4. The Western, or region of the western plateau, with the small lakes and 

sources of the rivers. 
C). The region of the great lakes, Erie and Ontario. 

I regret to state that no efficient steps have as yet been taken to 
organize the system of Massachusetts, for which an appropriation was 
made by the legislature, at its last session. I have lately written to Go- 



1" [ 1 ] 

vcrnor Brif^[^s, urging iramodiate action, and offering, on the part of the 
Institution,"to render any assistance in our power, towards furthering so 
huidable an enterprise. No answer has yet been received.* 

The observations made at the different military stations, under the 
direction of the Medical Department of the United States Army, have 
been partially re-organized, and a number of new stations, and several of 
the old ones furnished with improved Smithsonian instruments. The head 
of the Medical Department of tlie Armiv, Dr. Lawson, has assigned the 
general direction of the sy.stem of observations to Dr. Mower of New York, 
to whom we are indebted for the valuable aid which this extended set of 
.observations wall furnish the general system. The inunediate superin- 
tendence of the reduction of these ol)servations is in charge of Dr. 
Wotherspoon, to whose zeal and scientific abilities, the cause of mete- 
orology bids fair to be much indebted. 

The most important service the Smithsonian Institution has rendered to 
meteorology during the past year, has been the general introduction into 
the country, of a more accurate set of instruments at a reasonable price. 
The set consists of a barometer, thermometer, hydrometer, wind-vane, 
and snow and rain guage. 

The barometer is made by James Green, No. 422 Broadway, New York, 
under the direction of the Institution. It has a glass cistern with an ad- 
justable bottom, enclosed in a brass cylinder. The barometer tube is also 
enclosed in a brass cylinder, which carries the vernier. The w^iole is sus- 
pended freely, from a ring at the top, so as to adjust itself to the vertical 
position. The bulb of the attached thermometer is enclosed in a -brass 
envelope communicating with the interior of the brass tube, so as to be in 
the same condition with the mercury, and to indicate truly its tempera- 
ture. Each instrument made according to this pattern, is numbered and 
accurately compared with a standard. In the comparisons made by Pro- 
fessor Guyot, a standard Fortin barometer, by Ernst; of Paris, was em- 
ployed; also a standard English barometer, by Newman, of London, 
belonging to this Institution. These instruments, for greater certainty, 
jhave been compared with the standard of the Cambridge Observatory, 
and of Columbia College, both by Newman ; also Vv^ith the standard of 
the 01)servatory of Toronto, Upper Canada. 

The results of these examinations prove the barometers made by Mr, 
Green, according to the plan adopted by the Smithsonian Institution, to 
be trustworthy instruments. 

The thermometers are by the same maker, and those intended for the 
State of New York, w^ere compared with a standard by Bunten of Paris, 
and with another by Troughton & Simms of London. Those found to 
.differ more than a given quantity, from the standards were rejected. 

The instruments for detecting the variation of the hygrometrical condi- 
tion of the atmosphere, consist of two thermometers, of the same dimen- 
sions, accurately graduated. The bulb of one of these is enveloped in a 
covering of muslin and moistened with water, and that of the other is 
naked. 

The rain and snow gauges, and also the wind vanes, are made muler the 
direction of the Institution, by Messrs. Pike & Son, 166 Broadway, New 
York. The rain gauge is an inverted cone of sheet zinc, of which the area 

•A letter has since been receired and the sygtem placed under the direction of this Institution, 

Mis— 2 



[ 1 ] 



18 



of the base is exactly one kundred square inches. This cone or funnel 
terminates in a tube Avhich carries the water into a receiving vessel. The 
water which has fallen is measured by pouring it from the gauge into a 
cylinder, so graduated as to indicate hundreths ot inches. A smaller 
cylinder is also provided, v.diich gives thousanths of inches, and may 
serve, in cases of accident, as a substitute for the larger cylinder. The- 
rain gauge is placed in a cask sunk in the earth,, with its mouth near 
the level of the ground. 

The snow gauge is a cylinder of zinc of the same diameter as the mouth 
of the rain gauge. The measurement is made by pressing its moutk 
downwards to the bottom of the snow, where it has fallen on a level 
surface, then carefully inverting it, retaining the snow, by passing under 
it a thin plate of metal. The snow is afterwards melted, and the water 
produced is measured in one of the graduated glass cylinders of the raia 
iraucre. 

The wind vane is a thin sheet of metal, (it might be of wood,) about 
three feet long, carefully balanced by a ball of lead, and attaclied on the 
top of a long wooden rod, which descends along the wall of the building 
to the sill of the window of the observer. It terminates in the centre of 
a fixed dial plate, and indicates in its movements the direction of the wind 
by a pointer attached to the rod. 

The observer is by this arrangement enabled to determine the course 
of the wind, by looking down on the dial plate, through the glass of the^ 
window, without exposing himself to the starm. 

Besides the full sets of instruments furnished by the State of New York,, 
from the apprcpriation of the Regents of the University, the Smithsonian 
Institution has furnished a number of sets, to important stations, and in 
order that they might be more widely disseminated, we have directed Mr. 
Green to dispose of sets, to individuals, at a reduced price, on condition 
that they will give us copies of the results of their Observations; the re- 
mainder of the cost being paid by this Institution,. A number of persons 
have availed themselves of this privilege. 

To accompany the instruments, and for the use of those who take part 
in the Smithsonian system of meteorological observations, a series of mi- 
nute directions, prepared by Professor Guyot, has been printed by the 
Institution. It occupies forty octavo pages, with wood-cut representa- 
tions of the instruments, and is accompanied by two lithographic engra- 
vings, to illustrate the different forms of clouds, and to facilitate their 
notations in the journals, in accordance with the nomenclature adojited bj 
meteorologists. A set of tables has also been furnished for correcting the 
barometrical observations, on account of variation of temperature. A 
set of hygrometrical tables, to be used with the wet and dry bulb ther- 
mometers, and a set, for the calculation of heights by the barometer, will 
be prepared. 

We may also mention, in connection with this subject, that a series of 
preliminary experiments has been made, in the laboratory of this Institu- 
tion, for the purpose of constructing from direct observation, a scale of 
boiling temperatures, corresponding to different degrees of rarefaction of 
the air. With a thermometer, each degree of which occupies one inch in 
length of the scale, the variations of the boiling point corresponding to a 
slight change in altitude, are found to be more perceptible than those in 
the Icnsth of the barometrical column. 



19 [ 1 ] 

A series of experiments has also been made, for tcstinp^ the perform- 
ance of the Aneroid barometer under extremes of atmospheric pressure. 
The instrument as usually constructed, has not been found, from these 
experiments, very reliable, though it may be improved, and thus serve as an 
indicator of mimite atmospheric changes. I think, however, it will not 
answer for the determination of changes of atmospheric pressure, of con- 
siderable magnitude. 

For the better comprehension of the relative position of the several 

. places of observation, now embraced in our system of meteorology, an 
outline map of North America has been constructed, by Prof. Foreman. 
This map is intended also to be used for presenting the successive phases 
of the sky over the whole country, at difi'erent points of time, as far as 
reported to us, and we have been waiting for its completion, to commence 
a series of investigations, with the materials now on hand, relative to the 
progress of storms. 

A valuable collection of returns relative to the Aurora, has been re- 

: ceived in accordance with the special instructions which we have issued 
for the observation of this interesting phenomenon. These are to be 
{)laced in the hands of Captain Lefroy, of the Toronto observatory, and 
incorporated with observations of a similar kind, which he has collected 
in the British possessions of North America. An account in full of the 

, whole series will be presented by Captaiji Lefroy, to be published in the 
Smithsonian Contributions. 

The meteorological correspondence is under the charge of Professor 
Foreman. This is found not (*nly to ijivolve considerable labor -in the 
way of receiving the regular returns and sending the required blanks and 
directions, but also in relation to the discussion of questions on almost 
<*very branch of science propounded to us by the meteorological obser- 
vers, which w^e think it our duty in all cases, to treat with respect, and to 
.answer to the best of our knowledge. 

RESEARCHES, &C. 

Explorations. — The programme of organization contemplates the insti- 
tution of researches in Natural History, Geology, &c., and, though the 
state of the funds would permit of little being done in this line, yet we 
have made a beginning. Besides the assistance rendered to the explora- 
tion of the botany of New Mexico, by the purchase of sets of plants from 
Mr. Wright and Mr. Feiuller, as mentioned in my last report, a small sum 
was ap{)ropriated, to defray the cost of transportation of the articles which 
might be collected by Mr. Thaddeus Culbertson, in the region of the 
Upper Missouri. This gentleman, a graduate of the institutions at Prince- 
ton, had purposed to visit the remote regions above mentioned, for the 
benefit of his health, and was provided by Professor Baird, with minute 
directions as to the preservation of specimens and the objects which should 
particularly engage his attention. His journey w^as undertaken, and 
rsecuted, under jjarticularly favorable circumstances for exploration. Jle 
was accompanied by his brother, Mr, Alexander Culbertson, for many 
years connected with the American Fur Company, who was familiar with 
the whole country, and had himself sent valuable specimens of fossil 
mammalians to the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences. 

Mr. Culbertson first visited an interesting locality called the Mauvaises 



[ 1 ] 20 

Terres or Bad Lands, where his hrother had previously found the remains 
of the fossils sent to the Academy. He afterwards ascended the Missouri, 
to a point several hundred miles above Fort Union. He returned in 
Aui^ust last in renewed health to gladden the hearts of his parents 
and friends, with the prospect of long life and usefulness, but though 
he had withstood the privations and exposures of the wilderness, he 
sank under an attack of a prevalent disease and died after a few 
weeks illness. 

He left a journal of all the important events of his tour, which is 
thought of sufficient importance to be appended to this report. 

For a particular account of the interesting specimens which he procured, 
n\any of which are new and undescribed, I must refer to the appended 
report of Professor Baird. A part of the specimens, those of the fossil 
remains, have been referred to Dr. Leidy, of Philadelphia, who will pre- 
sent the result of his investigations relative to them, for publication in the 
third volume of the vSmithsonian Contributions. 

A small appropriation has also been made to defray in part the expense 
of exploration, relative to the erosions of the surface of the earth, espe- 
cially by rivers, and also for investigations relative to terraces and ancient 
sea beaches, under the direction of President Hitchcock. An abstract of 
these investigations, as far as they have been made, has been received by 
the Institution, and a full account of the whole, it is expected, will soon 
]je ready for publication. 

Also, an exploration for the increase of the Smithsonian collection, 
]>articularly in fishes and reptiles, of whifch our knowledge is most imper- 
t'eet, was undertaken by Professor Baird, accompanied by a number of 
young gentlemen, his former pupils. The result of this expedition which 
cost the Institution little more than the price of materials and transpor- 
tation, was a large number of specimens, including numerous species before 
unknown to science. 

Experiments. — A series of experiments has been made, during the 
past year, under the direction of Professor Jewett, to test the value of 
a new plan of stereotyping. If the result of these experiments be favo- 
rable, it is proposed to purchase the right to use the invention, for the 
jiurposes of the Institution. Should the invention be found to possess the 
(^haracter to which it appears entitled, it will not only be of much impor- 
tance to the Institution, but to the world ; and we shall have done good 
service to the cause of knowledge, by giving it our countenance and 
assistance. Professor Jewett has found it especially applicable to the 
accomplishment of his system of stereotyping catalogues of libraries, by 
separate titles, and, in this application, it will certainly be of great value, 
even should it fail in other respects to realize the sanguine expectations 
of its inventor. 

The result of the experiments will be submitted to a commission of 
l)ersons properly qualified to judge of its merits, and if their report be 
favorable, a small sum will be allowed for the use of it. 

Besides the experiments mentioned under the head of meteorology, 
made by Mr. Espy, on the cold produced by the rarefaction of air, Dr. 
Hare, of Philadelphia, is employing articles of apparatus belonging to the 
Institution, in a series of researches on the phenomena exhibited in the 
air, and in a vacuum by rubbing silicious minerals against each other. Tho 
"esults of these experiments, with the drawings of the apparatus employed, 



21 [ 1 ] 

■will be presented to the Institution in the form of a memoir for the Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Knowledge. 

COMPUTATIONS. 

Ocadtations for 18-51. — For the purpose of facilitating the accurate 
determination of geographical points in the United States, a list of occul- 
tntions and the co-ordinates of reductions for the years 1848, 1849, and 
1850, was prepared and published at the expense of the Smithsonian In- 
sititution. Congress has since ordered the publication of an American 
Nautical Almanac, and as lists of occultations will form a part of this 
cphemeris, Mr. Preston, late Secretary of the Navy, directed that the 
expense of computing these tables for 1850, should be defrayed from the 
appropriation for the almanac, provided the printing and distribution were 
at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution. The same course has been 
authorised by Mr. Graham, the present Secretary of the Navy. 

Copies of these tables computed by John Downes, of Pliiladelphia, have 
been sent to all persons known to the Institution, who would probably 
make use of them in the way of improving our knowledge of the geog- 
raphy of this country. They have been furnished particularly to officers 
e.f the United States Army, and other persons engaged in exploring our 
new possessions and determining their boundaries. All persons, to whoiri 
thesetables were presented, have been requested to send the result of their 
observations, made in connection with the use of them, to this Institution, 
or to publish them in some accessible journal. 

Epiicmeris of JVeptune. — It w^as stated, in the last report, that the orbit 
of the planet Neptune, established by the researches of Mr. Walker, and 
comprised in his memoir published by the Institution, gives the data for 
calculating an ephemeris or tables of the daily position of this planet, 
rivaling in precision the tables for any of the older jdanets. Sets of 
these tables were computed and published for 1848 and 1849, at the expense 
of the Smithsonian Institution, but those for 1850 and 1851, have been 
computed under the direction of Lieutenant Davis, superintendent of the 
Nautical Almanac, and ;it the expense of the appropriation under liis 
charge, while the expense of printing the tables has been borne by this 
Institution. 

These ta1)les are corrected for the perturbing influence of the planets 
Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus, by deductions from mathematical investiga- 
tions of Professor Peirce, of Harvard University. They have been used 
in following the motion of Neptune, by all the principal astronomers of 
the world, and have every where received the highest commendation, re- 
llecting honor on the Institution and on the science of the country. 

MUSEUM. 

The act of Congress authorizing the establishment of the Smithsoni;in 
Institution, contemplates the formation of a Museum of Natural History. 
It would not, however, be in accordance with the spirit of the organization, 
to expend the income in the reproduction of collections of objects which 
are to be found in every museum of the country. Naturiil History can be 
nmch more effectually promoted, by special collections ot new objects, by 
appropriations for original explorations and researches, and above all, by 



[1 ] 



33'- 



assistance in the preparation of the necessary drawings, and by prescntinc^ 
to the world, in a proper form, the labors of naturalists. In conformity 
with these views, it has been resolved to confine the collections, principally, 
to objects of a special character, or to such as may lead to the discovery of 
new truths, or which may sers'e to verify or disprove existing or proposed 
scientific generalizations. A number of special collections, important in 
tliis point of view, are mentioned by Professor Agassiz, in the appendix 
to my last report, and, for a more enlarged statement relating to the same 
subject, I would refer attention to the accompanying report by Professor 
Eaird, to whom the charge of the collections of Natural History has 
been confided. 

A considerable number of specimens in mineralogy, geology and botany, 
had been received, previous to Professor Baird's connection with the 
Institution, and, since he has entered upon his duty, a large addition ha* 
been made to the stock, by the deposit of his own cabinet, and by dona- 
tions from various sources. 

The collectipn is principally rich in undescribed species of fishes and 
reptiles, and especial care will be taken, by Professor Baird, to enhance 
its value, by procuring, in all cases, as far as practicable, such speci- 
mens as help to solve questions of scientific interest. The collection 
has been arranged in one of the rooms of the basement story, so as to be 
accessible to the student in this branch of science, and has already done 
service in this way, by furnishing the facts given in one of the memoirs of 
ihe Smithsonian Contributions. Though letters are constantly received 
requesting the Institution to purchase collections of plants, minerals and 
other objects of natural history, yet we have declined, in all cases, to avail 
ourselves of opportunities of this kind to increase the cabinet. Experi- 
ence has, thus far, shown that specimens of all kinds will accumulate, from 
donations and exchange, as rapidly as they can be accomimodated with room, 
and properly arranged. 

I have given, in my last report, the reasons why it is not thought advi- 
sable on the part of the Institution, to accept the gift proffered by Con- 
gress, of the great Museum of the Exploring Expedition, and I have no 
reason to change my opinion on that point. 

For a detailed account of the specimens forming the Smithsonian collec- 
tion, I refer to Professor Baird's report, herewith submitted. 

AMERICAN ANTIQUITIES. 

During the past year, we have received information of the locality of 
a number of mounds, and other remains of ancient art, in different parts of 
the United States. A gentleman is now engaged in the examination of 
rlie mounds of Western Virginia, Avith the intention of presenting the 
results of his labors, for publication in the Smithsonian Contributions to 
Knowledge. 

The survey of the mineral land in the vicinity of Lake Superior, has 
disclosed the site of an ancient copper mine, whence, in all probability, the 
copper of the metal ornaments, instruments, &c., found in the mounds wa« 
derived. The remains of the implements and of the ore, as left by the 
ancient miners, are exhibited in place, and afford an interesting illus- 
tration of the state of arts among the mound builders. The geological 
svryeyors have promised to make accurate measurements, and drawings of 



.23 [ 1 ] 

'everything of interest connected with these works, and to present theni, 
with suitable descriptions, to the Institution, for publication. 

Mr. E. G. Squier, during his sojourn in Central America, as Charge d' 
AtVaircs of the United States, made some interesting explorations relative 
to the antiquities of that country, and has sent to this Institution five 
large stone idols and several smaller objects, as the beginning of an Eth- 
nological Museum. For the cost of shipment and transportation of the 
three larger of those idols by way of Cape Horn, the Institution is indebted 
to the liberaJity of B. Blanco, Esq., of New York. 

For some remarks relative to the importance of forming an Ethnologi- 
cal museum, I beg to refer to a pajjer by Mr. Squier, given in the appendix 
to this report. 

APPARATUS AND INSTRUMENTS OF EF.SEARCII. 

It is a part of the plan of the Institution, to appropriate a small portion 
•of the funds, to the purchase of sets of instruments of physical research, 
to be used by the ofhcers of the Institution, and under certain restrictions, 
by other persons- In accordance witli this purpose, I was requested, by 
the Board of Regents, to pi'ocure an astron-omical clock, with the electro 
magnetic registering apparatus, to be lent to Lieutenant Gillis during the 
continuance of his astronomical labors in Chili. The clock has been im- 
ported from Germany, and is now in the hands of the instrument maker, to 
receive the registering attachments. The whole will be sent to Chili, as 
soon as the apparatus is completetl. I regret that the difficulty of pro- 
<niring the services of suitable workmen has delayed, so long, the comple- 
tion of these instruments. 

A communication from Lieutenant Gillis, inform.s us that the Chilian 
Government has resolved to establish a permanent National observatory 
at Santiago, and that it will purchase the instruments above mentioned. 
The Institution will therefore again, as in the case mentioned in a former 
report, of the purchase of a telescope, for the same expedition, be the 
means of promoting science, without an expenditure of its income. 

The apparatus for determining the elements of terrestrial magnetism, 
mentioned in my last report, as having been lent to Colonel Emory, has 
been delivered to Colonel Graham, to be used on the Mexican boundary 
survey. To replace these, the Institution has received permission to 
order another set, from London, at the expense of the government, and 
tlms, by an addition to the number of instruments of this kind, the means 
of ])romoting the science of terrestrial magnetism, in this country, will be 
increased. 

The purchase of standard meteorological apparatus, and also the instru- 
ments which have been distributed to different important stations, through- 
out the country, is a part of the same plan. 

During the past year a considerable portion of the apparatus constitu- 
ting the liberal donation of Dr. llare, of Philadel})hia, has been repaired 
and fitted up; and it is hoped, during the present season, to eom]ilete the 
repairs of the remainder, and to place the whole in a proper position fer 
•exhibition and use. 

LIBRARY. 

It has been stated, that the programme of organization is intended to 



[ 1 ] 24 

harmonize the several requisitions of Congress, and the resohitions of the 
Hoard of Regents, with a system of active operations, the influence of 
which shall be as widely extended as practicable. Though almost every 
one will admit the value of libraries, and the importance of collecting in 
this country as great a variety of books as possible, yet it may well be 
doubted whether the accumulation of a large number of books, which are 
to be found in almost every library of the country, is, in the present state 
of the funds, to be expected or aimed at. It is believed that a portion 
of the income devoted to the library, may be more efficiently expended in 
tlie promotion of the same ends by other means, and hence, it was resolved 
to make special collections of books; particularly to procure such as are 
not in the country, and also, in order to render more available those which 
are now in our libraries, to prepare, as far as practicable, a general cata- 
logue of all the books they contain. 

In accordance with these views. Professor Jewett has devised a plan of 
facilitating the publication of catalogues of libraries, which bids fair to be 
of much importance to the literature of the country. This plan has been 
submitted for examination to a commission of gentlemen well acquainted 
with the subject, and has received from them a very favorable report 
recommending its adoption. [S'ce Jlppendix.^ 

The propositions submitted to the commission for examination, were 
as follows: 

1. A plan for stereotyping catalogues of libraries by separate movable 

titles; and 

2. A set of general rules, to be recommended for adoption, by the different 

libraries of the United States, in the preparation of their catalogues. 

For a full account of Professor Jewett's plan, and of the advantages 
anticipated from it, I yiust refer to his report herewith submitted. I may 
however, briefly allude to the leading principle of the plan, which is to 
►sLereotype the titles of books on separate movable blocks. These blocks 
once prepared, and kept in a central depository, may be used for the print- 
ing of new editions of the catalogues for which they were originally made, 
allowing the interposition of additional titles in the proper order; as well 
as for the printing of all other catalogues coutaining the same titles. 
T'he collection of the stereotype blocks of the titles of the several libra- 
ries, will thus form the stereotyped titles of a general catalogue of all 
the libraries. They will lend themselves to the construction of biblio- 
graphies of particular branches of knowledge, and will admit of being 
arranged alphabetically, chronologically, or in classes, m accordance with 
any required system. 

These blocks' are not to be made in advance of a demand for their use. 
They are to be gradually accumulated, by an arrangement, which, impo- 
sing only a temporary and light burden upon the funds of this Institution, 
will effect the great public object desired, at the same time that it dimin- 
ishes to but a "fraction of the present cost, the expenses of publishing 
catalogues, and secures the construction of them upon a uniform and a]> 
proved system. 

The details of a plan so comprehensive, may well be supposed difficult 
of adjustment, and not capable of being clearly described within the limits 
of a few paragraphs. These have, however, been fully considered by a 
competent tribunal, and the plan has received commendation and promises 
of co-operation, from some of the principal institutions of the country. 



25 [ 1 ] 

BurlnGj the last year, the lihrary has continued to increase by donation, 
by receipts under the copy-right hiw, by exchanges for the publications 
of the Institution, and by purchase. It now numbers, in all, nearly ten 
thousand separate articles, and bids fair, from the same sources, to become 
a very valuable collection. 

Though one half of the annual interest is to be expended on the library 
mid the museum, the portion of the income, which can be devoted to tho 
former will, in my opinion, never be sufficient without extraneous aid, to 
collect and support a miscellaneous library of the first class. Indeed, all 
the income would scarcely suffice for this purpose. Still, by means of 
exchanges, donations and purchases, a library of great value may be col- 
lected and sustained, and this, with the constantly increasing library of 
Congress, the libraries of the Departments, and that of Georgetown Col- 
lege, will furnish a collection of books, not unworthy of the capital of 
this nation. 

From the report of Professor .Jewett, it will be seen that a Gallery of 
Art has been commenced, and that it is already in posession of a valuable 
collection of engravings. 

In this connection, I may mention that at the List annual meeting of 
the board, a letter was presented from the Hon. Abbott Lawrence, inform- 
ing the Regents that a portrait of Smithson had been offered through him 
for sale to the Institution. This portrait, which was in the possession of 
the widow of John Fitall, a servant of Smithson, mentioned in his will, 
was purchased for thirty guineas, and is now in the Gallery of Art. It 
represents the founder of this Institution, in the costume of a student of 
Oxford, and was })robably painted when he was not more than twenty 
years of age. There is, also in possession of the Institution, a medal- 
lion of Smithson, in copper, taken in after life. It is from this, that the 
head on the title page of the Smithsonian ])ublications has been copied. 

LECTURES. 

During the jiast session of Congress, a series of popular lectures has 
been given to the citizens of this place and strangers, in the lecture room 
of the Smithsonian building. These lectures were delivered by gentle- 
men distinguished for their standing, and for their attainments in litera- 
ture and science, who were invited for this purpose. The interest in thesu 
lectures has been sustained to a wonderful degree. They have been 
ftttendcd from the first by large audiences, and the results thus far, indi- 
cate that considerable good Uiay be derived from the diffusion of knowledge 
in this way, in a central position like Washington, where persons from 
every part of the Union are found. Although the lectures appear to 
the public one of the most prominent objects of the Institution, and 
although they are attended with much trouble and considerable exi)ense, 
they really form the least important feature of the ])lan adopted. So 
long however, as there is a ])rospect of (ioing good by means of them, 
it is due to the city in which the Institution is located, that they should 
be continued. 

Much complaint has been made on account of the size of the lecturta 
room. It is certainly too small to accommodate all who have wished to 
attend. We have, however, endeavored, in several instances, to obviato 
this difficulty, by procuring a repetition of the lectures; but this plan is 



[ 1 ] 2G 

attended with additional expense, and cannot, in all cases, be adopted. 
Should laro-e audiences continue, it may be well to provide a larger 
lecture room in the main building, and by removing the seats from the 
present lecture room, convert it into a museum of apparatus. This change, 
if thought advisable, can be made at very little, if any, additional ex- 
pense, since the present wood Vv^ork of the interior of the main building, 
is to give place to a fire proof structure, which will admit of being 
arranged as a lecture room. Indeed, the original plan contemplated a 
room of this kind in the main building, but the arrangement of it was 
such as to seat scarcely more than the room at present used. 

Many enquiries are made as to the publication of these lectures. In 
some cases, reports of them have been given in the newspapers, and it will 
be advisable to extend this practice to all : but the pul)lication, in a sepa- 
rate form, of lectures, which in many cases, are not written out, and not 
intended by their authors, as additions to knowledge, would be attended 
with much expense, and little useful effect. The institution, in several 
instances, is doing better service, by publishing, in full, the original re- 
searches, on which the lectures are based. The papers of Professor 
AsC'^'Ssiz, of Professor Harvey, and one of Lieutenant Davis, are of this 
character, and will be given to the world, through the Smithsonian Con- 
tributions. 

The following is a list of the Titles of Lectures given he/ore the Institution 

during; the last session of Congress, with the JVajnes of the 

distinguished Gentlemen by ichorn they were delivered: 

A single lecture on Holland ; by the Rev. Dr. George W. Bethune, of 
Brooklyn, New York. 

A course of lectures' on the relations of Time and Space — the vastness 
of the Visible Creation — and the Primordial Arrangement of Ex- 
isting Systems ; by Professor Stephen Alexander, of Princeton, 
New Jersey. 

A course of lectures on Science applied to Agriculture; by Professor J. F. 
W. Johnston, of the University of Durham, England. 

Two lectures, one on the tendencies of Modern Science, and the other on 
the Spirit of the Age; by the Rt. Rev. Bishop Alonzo Potter, of 
Pennsylvania. 

One lecture on the Ability of the Individual to Promote Knowledge; by 
the Rev. John Hall, of Trenton, New Jersey. 

A course of lectures on the Unity of the plan of the Animal Creation ; 
by Professor Louis Agassiz, of Cambridge, Massachusetts. 

A course of lectures on the Tides of the Ocean and their Geological Re- 
lations; by Lieutenant Charles Henry Davis, of the United States 
Navy. 

A course of lectures on IMarine Algffi or Sea Weeds, and also on the 
Morphology of the Vegetable Kingdom; by Professor William H. 
Harvey, of the University of Dublin, Ireland. 

Two lectures, one on the Origin and Growth of the Union during tha 



27 [ 1 ] 

Colonial Period, and tho other on some points of the History and 
Peculiarities of the Entjjiish Language; by Professor Henry Reed, 
of the University of Pennsylvania. 

A course of lectures on the Chemical Operations of Nature; by Profes- 
sor Lewis C. Beck, of Rutgers College, New Jersey. 

The first part of a general course, giving an exposition of the DynamicaJ 
Phenomena of Geology ; by Proltssor Henry D. Rogers, of Boston. 

Whatever may have been the effect of these lectures in the way 
of Diffusing Knowledge, it is evident from the character of the men 
by whom they were delivered, that they presented truths intended 
to elevate and improve the morals and intellectual condition of the 
hearers. 

All of which is respectfully submitted, 

JOSEPH HENRY, Secrcfari/ 

Of the Smilhsojiian Insliiuiion. 



[1] 



28 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY 

m CHARGE OF THE LIBRARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, FOR 

THE YEAR 1850. 



To the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Sir: — With the close of the year, it again becomes my duty to 
present to you my annual report upon the affairs of the Library. 

The rate of increase is still slow. We cannot expect it to be rapid, 
until after the a])propriation of the full income of the Institution to itj 
permanent ol)jects. 

The following table exhibits the number of books and other articles 
added to the Library since my last report, with the sources from which 
they have been received. 



I'urchnses, - . . . . 
Donations and Lxclianges, 
Copyriglils, . . . . . 





« 


&) 


-:: 


<^ ' 




o 


c 


r. ii 


" ,j 


















IT c3 


0) 'r. 


o 
o 


o 


fco 
c 


s ^ 


•rM 


ca 


D. 


W 







502 


9 




470 


G24 


1 


3 




452 


35 


8 


12 


455 


1,424 


CfiS 


9 


17 


455 



.— o o 



I 513 
1,098 
24 986 

2.597 



Adding these to the numbers previously reported, we obtain the fol- 
lowing statement of the present siice of the collections. 



donations, 
Copyrights, - 
Deposits, - ■ 





^ 


tr 






























to 




~z 


> 






c 


ff; 


-^ 


a 








O 
O 


a 


to 

c 




3 




2,818 


.'54 


1,3.35 


2 






627 


1,319 


48 


27 




30 


1,339 


70 


9 


32 


501 




873 












5,(557 


1,423 


1,392 


61 


561 


30 



40 



4,189 

2.051 

2,057 

873 



46 I 9,171) 



These numbers are, it is true, small in comparison with the demands of 
the community, and with our own hopes and prospects. Rut it must be 
borne in mind' that the Institution is as yet in but partial operation; that 
the funds are still, in a great degree, devoted to the building; and that 
tlie systematic collection of a Library has hardly been commenced. 

The books which have been bought, are for the most part such as were 
of immediate necessity. The lists which accompany this report, in con- 
nection with those previously transmitted, will show the composition of 
the Library. Though not complete in any department, this collection 
TX)ssesses from the outset, a decided and peculiar character. The list of 
books received by donation and exchange contains the titles of the latest 
publications of many of the learned societies of Europe, with complete 



29 [ 1 ] 

sets of some of them. It will be an object of the first care, to complete 
this department. The use which has already been made of those which 
we possess, and the frequent calls for others, fully demonstrate that the 
plan of collecting here entire series of the transactions of all foreiG:n 
aciulemies, and of the ablest scientific journals of every nation, was 
wisely formetl to meet a real and wide-1'elt want. 

The collection of engravings and woi-ks upon the history of art, has 
attracted much interest; not from undiscriminating idlers, but from men 
of taste, and particularly from artists. This collection, though not the 
largest in the country, is believed to be the choicest. It was made by an 
American gentleman, distinguished as a scholar no less than as a states- 
man, with the special design of illustrating the progress and resources of 
the art of engraving in all its branches, from its early masters to tlie 
present time. It was the work of many years to gather specimens, so 
rare and beautiful. It required an educated eye, a cultivated taste, an 
earnest study of the history of art, much diligent search, and the aid of 
many friends and correspondents, to bring together so many of the most 
valiiable prints which have ever been executed. The acquisition of this 
collection has saved to the Institution all expenditure, either of time or 
money, for skill and labor thus bestowed. The saving of money cannot 
but seem important to any one who weighs our means against our want,s, 
and the gain in time gives a longer period of public benefits. 

This collection contains some of the best works of nearly every en- 
graver of much celebrity. There is one portfolio of the works of Albert 
Durer, containing twenty engravings on copper and two on iron; by his 
own hand, — and among them, most of his best and rarest works; about 
sixty fine copies on copper, including the famous seventeen by Man- 
Antonio ; thirteen different portraits of Durer, and a large number of 
wood cuts engraved by hiin or under his inspection. Another portfolio 
contains a large collection of the etchings of Ileinbrandt, including some 
of his most beautiful pieces, particularly the "Christ Healing the Sick, " 
an early and fine impression. There is a portfolio of two hundred en- 
gravings and etchings, by Claude Lorraine, Hollar, and Eega ; a portfolio 
of superb portraits by Nanteuil, Wille, Edelink, and others, among them, 
a first impression of the "Louis XIV in armor," by Nanteuil; a port- 
folio of prints from the old Italian masters, comprising many that are 
extremely rare ; and another from the old German masters, containing 
about one hundred prints, many of them scarce and of great beauty. 
There are besides, live portfolios of sheet engravings, including very 
choice prints. Among them are thirty-one which are valued by Longhi, 
at fifteen hundred dollars. 

Among the galleries and published collections, are the "Muscc Royal," 
in two volumes folio, proofs before the letter, a superb copy ; Denon's 
•" Monumens des Arts du ])essin, " in lour volumes folio, of which only 
two hundred and fifty co})ies were publisbed; Baillie's Works, one hundred 
plates, folio; Thorwaldsen's Works, four volumes, folio; Hogarth's 
Works, folio, and the (xerman edition in quarto ; The Boydell Gallery, 
two volumes, folio; IJoydell's "Shakspeare Gallery," a remarkably good 
copy, containing many proofs before the letter, numerous etchings ami 
several progressive plates; Claude's "Liber Veritatis," an original copy, 
three volumes, folio; The Houghton Gallery, two volumes, folio; Chan>- 
berlain's Drawings in the Royal Collection, one volume, folio ; lieiitr 



[1] 



30 



brandt's Drawings, one volume, quarto; Da Vinci's Drawings, one vol- 
arae, quarto; " Galerie de Florence;" Angerstein Gallery; Ancient 
Sculpture, by the Dilettanti Society; Perrault's "Hommes Illustres ; " 
Sadeler's Hermits ; " Theuerdank, " a fine copy of the very rare 
edition of lol9 ; Meyrick's Armour ; Hope's Ancient Costumes, and 
more than one hundred volumes besides, mostly in folio or quarto, either 
composed entirely of valuable engravings, or in which the text is pub- 
lished for the sake of the illustrations of fine or decorative art. 

The collection of critical and historical works, in the various depart- 
ments of the fine arts, comprises about three hundred volumes of the best 
■works in the English, French, German and Italian languages, including 
whatever is most needed by the student of art in all its branches. 

Engraving seems to be the only branch of the fine arts, which we can, 
for the present, cultivate. One good picture or statue would cost more 
than a large collection of prints. The formation of a gallery of the best 
paintings, is, in this country, almost hopeless. Engravings furnish U8 
with translations, authentic and masterly, of the best creations of genius 
in painting and sculpture, the originals of which are utterly beyond our 
reach. Engraving, too, is more than a mere imitative art. The mas- 
ter's genius shines forth from some of the free and graceful etchings of 
Rembrandt almost as vividly as from his canvas. 

It can hardly be doubted, that, in no way, could this Institution, for 
the present, do so much for every department of the fine arts, without 
injury to other objects of its care, as by procuring a collection of engra- 
vings, so full and so well chosen as that which now adorns its Library. 

Another department of the Library which has received special atten- 
tion, is that of bibliographical works. I need not here repeat what I 
have already said upon the importance of these books. A librarian can 
no more do Avithout them, than a mechanic can work without tools, or a 
chemist perform experiments without apparatus. Our collection of them 
is already very respectable ; nor have the books been without great use 
since they were placed upon our shelves. The announcement, early made, 
that we proposed to form such a collection, not solely for our own use, 
but also for the benefit of other LibrarieSj^^has been read and noted. A}>- 
plications from all parts ^pf the country are now made for information and 
assistance, which these books enable us to give. 

The books Vv'hich we have received under the copyright section of our 
cliarter, form a popular portion of the Library. Among them are works 
of great value and importance. The Law books, alone, are worth more 
than five hundred dollars. The Medical books are of considerable value. 
Many interesting works of local history, thus find their way to our shelves, 
which we should otherwise not be likely to be acquainted with. The 
■works of fiction, poems, critical essays, and even the school books, have, 
in this Library, a worth beyond their intrinsic or exchangeable value, as 
specimens to he handed down to posterity of the literary characteristics of 
tliis generation. The list of periodical publications is intended to include 
the best journals of literature, science and art, in all languages. 

It is perhaps, too soon to begin to speak of the use made of the Librarj, 
it is not ten months, since the books, few as they are, were first arranged 
ID the western wing of the Smithsonian building ; and the adjoining " con- 
necting range," fitted up for a reading room. Yet this time has been 
long enough to show the great interest which attaches to such an estab- 



31 [ 1 ] 

lisliment, and to give an earnest of its future usefulness. A record of 
visitors, kept in the reading room, shows an average of sixteen thousand 
a year. A large proportion of these are, it is true, attracted merely by 
curiosity. Yet many are led by a love of study. However much we 
must regret that we have not yet the mt^ans of meeting tlie wants of 
students, it is encouraging to see the evidence, that all which we can do 
will be appreciated and rendered useful. 

The experience of the last year would seem to decide the question of 
the appropriateness of this location for such an Institution. An establisli- 
ment like this must have a fixed position somew^here. Yet its benefit* 
are for all ; not for one city nor one section of country, nor one nation 
even, but for " jrAXKixn '\ It is not to be denied, that a large city, like 
New York, or Philadelphia, or JJoston, offers many advantages for the 
operations ol' such an Institution, not possessed by this city. It is, never- 
theless, almost beyond question, that the comparison of advantages is in 
favor of this very place. Tliere is no spot which presents so many 
attractions for the chiss of men most immediately interested in its con- 
cerns ; no city, wdiich they more gladly visit. The high officers of state, 
and the foreign diplomatic corps reside here. Here are held the sessiorui 
of Congress. Here are the executive departments of the government, 
the Patent Office, the Office of the Coast Survey and the Observatory. 
Every man, throughout the whole extent of the land, feels that here 
he has a friend, — a representativ^e, — through whom he may commu- 
nicate with such an establishment, when he cannot visit it in person. 
The facilities for the kind of intercourse, which w^e need Avi-th other 
countries, are, by the help of the State Department and of Foreign 
Ministers, greater than at any other point. More than all, the estab- 
lishment here possesses a character of nationality, wdiich would not 
elsewhere attach 1o its movements, in the eyes of our own people and 
of foreigners. This it was, undoubtedly, wdiich led its founder to direct 
that the Institution should be established in Washington. Eesides all 
this, it is enabled to multiply its influence and usefulness, by acting 
in concert with the departmeiits of the National Government. 

The inhabitants of a city where such an institution is established mu.'^t, 
of necessity, share more largely in its benefits than others more remote. It 
is gratifying to know that this advantage could fall nowhere more appro- 
priately, more benignly, or less invidiously, than u])on this city. Selected 
and planned as for the seat of government of a mighty em])ire — a spot 
Avhere nature laid her hand most gracefully — Washington has not hitherto 
Ijeen able, like her sister cities, to gather from commerce, wealth for 
endowments of learning. From the nature of our political institution?, 
she has been deprived, too, of that fostering munificence, which in 
Europe has reared splendid capitals from the sandy plain, or sunken 
morass, and supplied them not only with all that can meet the con- 
venience and gratify the taste of their inhabitants, but also with Uni- 
versities, Scientific Societies, and Libraries, for the advancement of civ- 
ilizalion, refinement, and human happiness. 

The central position and national character of the institution, have sug- 
gested many ways of rendering the Smithsonian Library useful to the lit(.>- 
rary public other than in the collection of books. 'J'hese are not of course 
supposed to dispense with the importance of collections, nor do thoHo 
"vvhich we have thus far adopted materially diminish our means of accu- 



[1] 



32 



mulation. They are additional objects of attention and they neither ex- 
clude nor interfere with the principal object. During the first years of tli« 
Library, while the money is wanting for extensive purchases, these plans 
receive a larger relative share of attention than may permanently be given 
t-o them ; though it is hoped that they wall actually continue to increase in 
extent as in importance/' 

One of these means of usefulness, was the gathering of statistical and his- 
torictil notices of public libraries in the United States. This occupied a 
jjortion of my time during the year 1S49. The results of my labors were 
preseijted in the appendix to my last report, wdiich has not yet been print- 
,ed. In establishing a central bibliographical bureau, it was of primary im- 
portance to survey the field in order to learn the number, condition, and 
prospects of existing libraries, and to establish with them, relations indis- 
pensable to success in any general systenj of operations. 

GENERAIi CATALOGUE.. 

The formation of the General Catalogue of American Libraries has been 
another prominent object of my attention,. As most of our public libraries 
possess printed catalogues, it is possible to form one central catalogue, by 
combining the titles of these, in one alphabetical arrangement. The value 
of such a w^ork w'ould be, in a measure, limited to this spot. The 
only w'ay in which it could be extended further, would be by correspon- 
dence. Even thus limited, the scheme is very promising. It is manifest, 
however, that its benefits would be vastly increased, if copies of the cata- 
logue could be multiplied. The catalogues of the different libraries were, 
however, constructed on plans so various, and in most cases, so faulty, that 
it was unadvisable to print any catalogue formetl froni them. 

In order to realize irpm a general catalogue all of the vast advantages 
which it seems to promise, it is necessary that the catalogues of all the 
libraries of which it is composed, should be prepared with uniformity and 
accuracy ; rind in order to secure the co-operation necessary to the con- 
struction of catalogues in this manner, some plan must be devised, which 
would not increase, but if possible, diminish the present cost to ea.ch library 
of making and printing its catalogue. 

I had the honor, sometime since, to present, through yourself to 
the Board of Regents, the outline of a plan which promises to secure these 
ends and others of not less importance. Thi^ plan was referred to a com- 
mission of librarians and literary men of the highest standing, for their 
examination. , 

']'he favorable report of tlijs commission, after the laborious and consoi- 
esntious attention which they gave the nv^tter, leads me to hope, that tli« 
project will be carried in>mediately and vigorously jnto execution. 

It would not be possible fqr me, within the customary limits of a report 
like this to present all the details of a scheine so extensive ; yet it is 
proper that I should dwell s,omewhat at length upon the exigencies in 
which it originated; its principal featuresl; its pra^cticability.-; and the 
benefits which it promises tp our public libraries and to the cause of 
knowledge. 

We can but glance at the nature and extent of the difficulties, w^hiph 
have hitherto been encountered, in attempting to furnish suitable printed 
(Catalogues of growing libraries, and which have led, or are leading, to 



33 [ 1 ] 

a common al)an(lonmcnt of the hope of affording guides so important to 
the literary accumuUitions of the hirger libraries of Europe. 

It is, of course, entirely practical)le ') juiblish a complete and 
satisfactory catalogue of a library which is stationai'y. But most public 
libraries are constantly and rap;idly ii;creasing. 'I'liis circumstance, so 
gratifying on every other account, is the cause of the diiiiciilties to v.hich 
i have alluded. 

While the catalogue of such a collection is passing through the press, 
new hooks are received, the titles of which, it is impossible, in the ordinary 
manner of printing, to incorporate \di\i the body of the v/ork. Recourse 
must then be had to a supplement. In no other way, can the acquisitions 
of the library be made known to the public. If, as in the library of Con- 
gress, th" number of supplements be increased to nine, the student may be 
obliged to grope Ins weary way through ten catalogues, instead of one, in 
order to asi;ertai!i v/hethcr any book v/hieh he seeks is in tlie library, lit: 
cannot be certain, even then, that the book is not in the collection, for it 
may have been received since the last appendix was printed. 8u})p]e- 
ments soon become intolerable. The whole catalogue must then be re- 
<irrangcd and re-printed. The expense of this process may be borne, st) 
long as the library is small ; but it soon becomes Ijurdensome, and ere long 
insupportable, even to national establishments. 

There is but one course lett — not to print at all. I'o this no scholar con- 
sents, except from necessity. 

But to this alternative, grievous as it is, nearly all the large libraries oi" 
Europe have been reluctantly driven. More than a century has passed 
since the prmting of the catalogue of the Royal Library at Paris was com- 
menced. It is not yet finished. No one feels in it the interest which he 
would, if he could hope to have it kept up complete, if once it were 
brought up to a given date. 

Dr. P.ertz, Chief Librarian of the Royal Library of Berlin, declares that 
to print the c;italogue of a large library, which is constantly increasing, is 
to throw away money. His opinion is founded u])ou the supposed impos- 
•sibility of kec' ing up the catalogue, so as continually to represent the actual 
possessions of the library. 

The first volume of the new catalogue of printed books in the British 
Museum was published in 18 If), It is a folio of four hundred and fifty- 
seven pages, and contains all the titles, imder the letter A, of books in the 
library at the end of the year 1838. Mr. Panizzi, from the first, strongly 
opposed the printing of any part of the catalogue, befora the whole, up to 
the prescribed limit (1838,) should he completed in manuscript. Time has 
shown the justness of his views. The commissioners lately appointed ])y 
the Queen to inquire into the constitution and management of the Museum, 
have, in their report, expressed an opinion decidedly against the printing 
of the catalogue at all, and principally on the ground that it mfist ever 
remain imperfect. 

One of the witnesses, (the Right TTonorahle J. W. Croker,) examined 
before the commissioners, thus strongly states the case with respect to 
printing : 

" You receive, I suppose, into your library every year some twenty 

thousand volumes, or something like that. Why, if you had a printed 

catalogue dropped down from Heaven to you at this moment perfect, this 

day twelve-month your twenty thousand interlineations would spoil the 

Mis— 3 



[ 1 ] 34 

simplicity of that catalogue ; again the next year twenty thousand more ; 
and the next year twenty thousand more ; so that at the end of four or five 
years, you would have your catalogue just in the condition that your new 
catalogue is now (the manuscript part greater than the piiuted part.) 
With that new catalogue hefore your eyes, I am astonished there should he 
any discussion ahout it, for there is the experiment ; the experiment has 
been made and failed." 

Not one European library of the first class, has a complete printed cata- 
logue in a single work. The Bodleian library issued, in 1843, a catalogue 
in three large volumes folio, which is generally but erroneously supposed 
to contain the titles of all books in the collection ; but all books of which 
special catalogues had previously been published, are omitted in it. For a 
complete catalogue of the Bodleian library, it is necessary to procure, not 
only the three volumes folio printed in 1S43, but also fourother volumes, 
containing the catalogues of collections belonging to the library. There- 
fore, one may be obliged to search five catalogues, before he can ascertain 
whether any particular book were in that library up to the end of the 
year 1834. 

The catalogue of 1843 is only brought down to 183o. None, therefore, 
of the literature of the last ^fteen years, and none of the acquisitions ot 
the library duiing that period, are contained in it. A supplement is in 
press, or perhaps already published, which contains the additions to the 
library from 1835 to 1847. When this is published, it will be possible ta 
ascertain whether any given book was or was not in the library at the 
close of the year 1847 ; but it may be necessary to search six catalogues 
for the purpose. 

In view of these fiicts, it is not surprising that the commissioners upon 
the British JSIuseum should come to the opinion, that it is unwise to print 
the catalogue of that library, and should advise that nothing more be at- 
tempted than to prepare and keep up a manuscript catalogue. 

But, in this opinion the English public, who look to the end without 
considering the difficulties of the way, do not seem cordially to acquiesce ; 
and it will perhaps be found necessary to print, even at the estimated cost 
of £40,'000 sterling, and with the certainty that, almost as soon as the 
catalogue comes from the press, the re-publication of it will be as loudly 
demanded. 

This is surely, a disheartening state of thing's. It applies with equal 
force to catalogues of all forms: alphabetical, chronological, and classed- 
It has been felt and lamented by every one who has had the care of an 
increasing library. 

In seeking a remedy for this evil, the idea occurred to me several years 
ago, to stereotype the titles separately, and to preserve the plates or blocks 
in alphabetical order of the titles ; so as to be able readily to insert addi- 
tional titles in their proper places, and then to reprint the whole catalogue. 
By these means, the chief cost of re-publication — that of composition, 
together with the trouble of revision and correction of the press, would, 
except for the new titles, be avoided. The great difficulty which had so 
long oppressed and discouraged librarians, and involvetl libraries in expenses 
so enormous, would thus be overcome. 

This idea which had occurred to me before my appointment as librarian 
of the Smithsonian Institution, assumed, in my irtind, new importance in 



35 [ 1 ] 

connection with the plan of forming a general catalogue of American li- 
braries. 

My action in the matter was checked by the discouraging opinions of 
several stereotypers, whom I consulted. I did not indeed believe the 
difficulties, which they suggested, to be insuperable ; but I was so situated 
that it was impossible for me at once, to institute the experiments necessaiy 
to show the practicability of stereotyping titles separately. 

In the meantime the librarian and directors of the American AntiquarlaTi 
society, having heard of the plan, opened a correspondence with me on the 
subject, with a view of employing it in the republication of their own 
catalogue. The enero-etic aid and ingenious suggestions of one of the 
<lirectors, the Rev. Edward E. Hale, of Worcester, gave a new impulse to 
the scheme, and induced me to propose its adoption by the Smithsonian 
Institution sooner than I had anticipated. 

The suggestions of Mr. Hale were seconded by the practical skill of Mi'. 
Wilcox, an ingenious electrotypist of Boston, who made the electrotyped 
])age of separate movable titles, which I have already submitted to your 
inspection. It is a beautiful piece of work. It demonsti-ated to the con- 
viction of the most incredulous, the practicability of this method of printing 
catalogues. 

After the plan had been made public by a paper, which I presented in 
August last, to the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 
Mr. John K. Rogers, agent of the Boston type and stereotype foundry, 
devised a method of accon^.plishing the purpose by means of the CQmmo]i 
process of stereotyping. He caused a page to be made for exhibition at 
the Mechanics' fair in Boston. He has since l)een at the expense of another 
page, very handsomely executed and with several improvements, which I 
have now the pleasure of submitting to your examination. This page 
establishes the applicability of the common stereotype process to our 
purpose. The company which Mr. Rogers represents, is ready to enter 
into a contract to do the work, at a very small advance upon the usual 
price of stereotyping. Whatever the result may Ite, our thanks are due to 
Mr. Rogers for his intelligent and liberal efforts. 

Meanwhile my attention was directed to a new process of stereotyping, 
which promises to form an era in the art. A gentleman from Indiana, 
Mr. Josiah Warren Is the inventor. The material which he uses for ste- 
reotyping costs not more than three cents an octavo page. The process is 
so sim])le, that any man of average ingenuity could learn to practice it 
successfully by two or three days instruction. The cost of apparatus for. 
carrying on the work is very small. The rapidity of execution is such, 
that one man can produce at least twenty-five octavo pages a day, all 
finished and ready for use. The plates give a beautiful impression. They 
seem as durable as common stereotype plates, and so for as now known, 
they are not in any great degree more liable to injury. 

If this Invention bears successfully the severe tests of practical men, it 
will have been brought forward at a most favorable period for lliis project. 
It will be seen, by the specimens which I herewith present, that it offers 
extraordinary facilities for the kind of work which we re(juire, and it will 
reduce the expense very greatly. 

This preliminary point of tlie practicability of stereotyping by titles, 
may therefore be considered as established. Tliat it can be done' by the 
electrotype process, as well as by the ordinary luode of stereotyping, is 



[ 1 ] 



36 



placed beyond dispute. It seems equally certain that it can be done by 
Mr. Warren's method. The choice an:iong these three ways must be deter- 
mined by their comparative economy, convenience, and elegance. We 
have not yet had the opportunity to bring this point to a final decision. It 
is certain, hovrever, that the v\'ork can be done. I proceed, therefore, to 
state the proposed manner of applying this plan to the printing of cata- 
logues of particular libraries, and to the formation of a general catalogue of 
all the libraries in tliis country. It is as follows: 

1. The Sinitlisohiiin Iiisiitiilioii to piiblisli Rules Cor the |ire));u-;!tioii of CaI;iIoj,'np.«. 

2. To feqiK.'st, otlifii- IiisliliUions iiUenfJing to publish f:ii;i!(><;ives oftheir liooks to prepare them 

iH:eor(litv;f to these rules, with a view to their heiiig steieotyped iiiider the diruciioii ol' the 

Smithsuniiui Itistitiiiioi!. 

3. Tiie Sii)it!isoiii:in Iiistitiiiioii to p;iy tiie wiiole extra expense of stereotyping, or such part 

thereof as may be agreed on, 

4. Tiie stereotyped titles to remain llie property of tlie Smithsonian Insiiiiition. 

5. r.vcry l.ii)rary niiitiiig in liiis phin, to have liie right of using nil the lilies in the possession of 

the Instititliiin, as olieii as desired for the [iriiiliiig of its own catalogne ; \\\f the Smisiiso- 
iiiaii In-lilniion paying only the expense of trjakiiig up the Jiages, of tiie press worU, and 
of dislribnling, the titles to their proper places. 

6. ']'he Smithsonian Institution to publish, as soon as pnssiblo, atid at stated intervals, Genera) 

Catalogues of all l.,ibrarics coming into ibis sysieni. 

It is believed there is nothing impracticable in any part of this plan, 
provided that the benefits to be derived from it, be such as to secure the 
co-operation of the various libraries in the country. To these benefits, 
therefore, it is necessary to direct particular attention. 

And first, let us consider its advantages in an econcniical point of view 
to the first institution adopting it. 

We will suppose, for example, that the American Antiquarian Society 
proposes to publish a new catalogue of its library. This institution 
])rinted, in 1837, a handsome and valuable catalogue, in five hundred 
and sixty tv/o large 8vo. pages, in fine type. The composition cost, 
we will suppose, one dollar a page. This must all now be reprinted, in 
order to add the titles of books received since 1837, the number of which 
is almost equal to that of the former catalogue. If a new catalogue be 
now printed, in ten or twelve years it will be necessary to reprint the 
whole, and this process will go on, till the expense of reprinting will be 
quite appalling. Now had the titles of the orignial catalogue been stereo- 
typed, the catalogue, instead of costing for the composition 500 dollars, 
.might have cost, for composition and stereotyping, 750 dollars, counting 
the extra cost of stereotyping in titles 50 per cent, above that of the 
composition.* 

But the necessity of re-cornposing the first part would no longer exist. 
Five hundred dollars would therefore be saved in the first reprint, whilst 
the extra expense of stereotyping v\-as only tv/o hundred and fifty dollars, 
Thus the net gain would be two hundred and fifty dollars, minus the cost 
of newly making up and imposing the old matter, Avhich would be very 
inconsiderable. But there would be still further gains. It would not be 
thought necessary to print so large editions, if the work could be repro- 
duced at a trifling expense. The re-arrangement, too, passes from the 

* [ am unable to state what would be tiie exact cost of stereotyping or elet trotypiiig by 
iiiii's. I assume 50 percent, extra, as a convenient rate for calculation, though if Mr. War- 
ren's plan succeed, it can be done for much less. 



37 [ 1 ] 

hands of the librarian to those of the j^rintcr; and the proof-reading lias 
been done, once for all. 

The time for applyino- this system to the first edition is indeed past, 
but the same reasoning, at the jiresent moment, applies to the seeond. it 
the whole be now steieotyj < <l, and two hundretl coi-it's si ruck oli', the 
accessions for the first year may be stereotyped and ];iinted sej.aiately, 
and in the second or third year, a now catalogne may he issued, with the 
additions incorporated. In the mean time, it is prol.alilc, that m;;ny of 
the suj)plementary titles would have been stereoty}:ed foi- other libraries, 
and, thus, the cost of writing them out and of stereotyping them, be s] ared 
to the Antiquarian Society. Tf the cost of composition ibr the catalogue 
al)out to be published (containing thirty thousan^l titles or more,) lie stated 
at one thousand dollars, for an additional sum of five hundred dollars the 
necessity of recomposing would be forever obviated, and the great 
advantage secured of being able to print every two or thiee years, at 
saiall expense, new editions, each complete to the time of its publication. 

It is thus, I think, demonstrable, that even for the use of a shigle 
!jbiai-y, this plan would l;e economical. 

Let us next consider the advantages which the second Library, adopting 
the plan, may hope from it, in an economical point of view. 

We will suppose, for the sake of example, that after the catalogue of 
the xiiati quarian Society's Library has been stereotyped, and the titles 
placed un.ler the care of the Smitlisonian Institution, it is j)r( posed to 
issue a new edition of the catalogue of the Library of Congress. What 
iiiducements would there be for adojiting this plan.'* 

It has been the practice in this Library to print a new edition of the 
catalogue every ten years, and to issue annual sujiplements. About one- 
fitth of the catalogue has been printed five times ; two-fifths four times, &c. 
Now, from what has already been said, it will be manifest liow great the 
saving wouhl have been had this plan been known and followed from the 
first, even if the first cost of stereotyping i)y titles had been twice or three 
times that of onlinary piinting ; and consequently how great the ju'ospec- 
tive advantage of adopting the plan, even independently of any general 
system. 

Ikit Inowsu]po;e that, when the plan is adopted for tlie Li!)rary of 
Congress, the catalogue of the Antiquarian Library has already been stereo- 
typed, and that the titles are in po.ssession of the Smithsonian ir.stitution, 
for the use of other libraries enterinc: into the neneral arrangement. Here 
IS a new arid very nnp'ortant element in the calculation. 

We suppose the nund)er of titles of the Antiquarian Lilu-ary, alreadv 
stereotyped, to be thirty thousand. Some of these would doubtles.s be the 
same in botii ^-.ollections. For all that are common to the two, the exj ense 
oi' the preparation oi t'lth'H, o? composition and of revision would i-e saved 
to the Library of Congress. It is impossil)le to say, with exactness, how 
much the saving would be from these sources, because these two catah^gues 
are not uniform nor complete. If the library of Congiess weie } ro},erly 
catalogued, it would give perhaps seventy thousand titles. Of these 1 pre- 
sume not less tlian hit ecu thousand would be identical with the same 
number of the Antiquarian Lil)rary. At this rate, more than one-fifth of 
the labor and cost of preparation would be saved by Ib.e wi^c of titles j re - 
pared and stereotyped by others, over and above the savings already 
enumerated. 



[ 1 ] 



38 



After the stereotyping of the Antiquarian Library, and the Library of 
Congress, we should have perhaps eighty-five thousand stereotyped titles. 
Of course the third institution adoptino; the plan would be likely to find a 
very large number of its titles identical with those already stereotyped' 
The amount saved by the use of titles already stereotyped would soon, 
(perhaps in the third Library) be sufficient to counterbalance the extra 
expenditure for stereotyping for that Library. At any rate, the extra 
expense would be a quantity constantly and rapidly diminishing, and it 
would soon (certainly after the fourth or fifth large Library) vanish entirely. 
The Smithsonian Listitution would not therefore be required to assume the 
charge of an enterprise which might involve it in great and increasing 
expense, but rather, and solely, to lielp put in operation, and to guide a 
system which \yil\ almost immediately pay its own way, and will soon 
save enormous sums of money to our pul)lic libraries. 

That the ago-regafe economy of this iilan would be very great, may be 
seen from the following statement : 

We have in our library fifteen thousand pages, mostly in octavo, of cata- 
logues of public libraries in the United States. These contain at least four 
hundred and fifty thousand titles. But according to the best estimate which 
I can malce from a comparison of these catalogues, there are among them, 
not more than one hundred and fifty thousand different titles. Two-thirds 
then of the whole cost of printing the catalogues the first time, might have 
been saved by assuming the extra expersa of stereotyping the remaining third. 

I have put thus prominently forward the economy to be expected from 
the proposed enterprise, not because this, in my estimation, is the most 
])Owerful argument in fiivor of it ; nor because I should entirely despair 
of its adoption were it not advantageous in a pecuniary point of view ; 
but because, even if there were no other reasons for it, (provided there 
were none against it,) the fact of its great economy w-ould be decisive ; 
and because in the present poverty of our institutions of learning, and in 
the vast number of plans for the extension of their usefulness, which present 
themselves for consideration, and claim approval, this might stand a 
much smaller chance of success if it rested entirely upon other grounds 
than the saving of money. 

Having now, however, shown its economy when employed by a single 
Library, and its great economy in connection with a general system, I 
])roceed to suggest a few, among the many benefits to the cause of 
Knowledge, which this i)lan ]iromises, if generally adoped. 

It can hardly be necsssary for me to dwell at length upon the benefits to 
be expected from a general printed catalogue of all books in the public 
Libraries of America. By means of it, every student in America would 
have the means of knowing the full extent of his resources for investi- 
gation. The places where the book could be found, would be indicated 
in the catalogue. A correspondence would be kept up between this Insti- 
tution ami every other library in the country. A system of exchange and 
of general loans mio-ht, with certain stringent conditions, be established, 
so that all the literary treasures of the country would be measurably ac- 
cessible to every scholar. When the loan of a book would be impos- 
sible, extracts could be copied, quotations verified, and researches made, 
through the intervention of this Institution, which would in many cases 
be nearly as valuable to the student as the personal examination of the 
book. 



39. [ 1 ] 

In connection with this topic I would add : ]jy law, a copy of every 
hook for which a copyright shall be secured in this country is required to 
he delivered to the Smithsonian Institution, and to be preserved therein. 
It is hoped that additional legislation on this subject, will, while it lightens 
ihe Iturdens of publishers, secure the observance of lliis law, with respect 
\o the Smithsonian Institution, in all cases. If then, the books thus ob- 
tained be all preserved, they will constitute the complete monumental 
history of American literature, during the existence of the law. It is 
useless to enlarge upon the value of such a collection. 

If, now, a list of these publications, as they come into the lil)i-ary, should 
month by month be published in the proposed Bulletin, and the titles 
immediately stereotyped, the expense would be trifling of juiblishing every 
year a catalogue of the books copyrighted in America during the year, 
and to print every five years, a general catalogue of American publications 
up to that limit. Thus, the monthly bulletins, the annual lists, and the 
quinquennial catalogues would furnish full and satisfactory records of 
American publications. 

Again, this general catalogue w^ould enable purchasers of books for 
public libraries, to consult, judiciously, for the wants of the country. So 
poor are we in the books which scholars need ; so long, at best, must w"e 
remain in a condition of provincial dependence in literary matters ; that a 
responsibility to the whole country rests upon the man who selects the 
books for any public librarv. 

Another important l>enefit of this system is that it allows us to varv 
the form of the catalogue, at will, from the alphabetical to the classed", 
and to ra<odify the classification as we please. The titles, separately 
stereotyped, may change their order at command. If, for example, it 
were required to print a separate list of all books in the country on the 
subject of tneieorology, it would be necessary merely to check off in the 
general catalogue the titles to be used, and to hand it to the printer to do 
the rest of the work. 

Another great benefit of this project would be to secure uniformity in 
catalogues. A good degree of uniformity w'ould be absolutely indispen- 
sable to the success of the plan. Entire uniformity is not indeed to be 
expected. Perfection is not an attribute of the works of man. Eut a 
much higher degree of uniformity would result from this plan, than could 
otherwise be hoped for. The rules for cataloguing must be stringent, 
and should meet as far as possible all difficulties of detail. Nothing, so 
far as can be avoided, should be left to the individual taste or judgment 
of the cataloguer. He should be a man of sufficient learning, accuracy 
and fidelity, to apply the rules. In cases of doubt, reference should be 
mide to the central establishment to which the wliole work should be 
submitted, page by page, for examination and revision. Thus we should 
have all our catalogues formed substantially on one plan. Now, even if 
the plan adopted were that of the worst of our catalogues, if all were on 
the same plan, this uniformity would rentk-r catalogues, thus made, far 
more useful than the present chaos of irregularities. ]5ut we hope that 
the best possil)le system may be adopted. 

Another general consideration is that this project looks towards the 
accomplishment of that cherished dream of scholars, a universal catalogue. 
If the system should be successful in this country, it may eventually be 
so in every country of Europe. When all shall have adopted and carried 



[1] 



40 



out the plan, each for itself, the aggregate of the general catalogues 
thus formed — few in number — will embrace the whole body of literature 
extant, and from them, it will be no impossible task to digest and publish 
a universal bibliography- How much this would promote tlie progress 
of knowledge by showing, more distinctly, what has liecn attempted and 
accomjdished, and wdiat yet remains to be achieved, and by thus directing 
the outhiy of intellect aright; how much, by rebuking the rashness which 
rushes into autliorship, ignorant of what others have written, and adding 
to the mass of. books without adding to the sum of knowledge; how 
much by giving confidence to the true and heroic student, who fears no 
labor so that it bring him to the commanding height at which he aims — 
the summit of learning in the branch to which he devotes himself; how 
much such a w^ork would, in these and other ways, promote the great 
object we have in view, is well deserving the attention of every thought- 
ful mind. Upon it I may not at present longer dwell. 

In America alone can this system be put into immediate operation. In 
every large country in Europe the arrears in cataloguing, or the mass of 
titles accumulated in the libraries, Avould render the first expenses of the 
enterprise quite startling. Eut here all things cons}:ire in oui' favor — our 
libraries 'are all small, and moi^tly repetitions one of another. Eut they 
are prosperous and will rapidly increase. Their supporters are all desiroius 
of having printed catalogues. A central administration is necessary. This 
can be accepted by the Smithsonian Institution, whose position is ]'.eculiarly 
iavorable, and whose funds are consecrated to such purposes. The enter- 
prise requires no great outlay of money, no gigantic effort. It may go 
noiselessly, but rapidly into operation. There is nothing to p«i'event its 
immediate usefulness. 

The commissioners appointed to examine and report upon the project, 
considered not only its general features, but also its minute details. To 
them were submitted the rules proposed for cataloguing, which were sepa- 
rately discussed, and after having been variously amended and modified, 
were recommended for adoption. It is not supposed that this code provides 
forcvei\y case that will occur. The peculiarities of books are, like the 
idiosyncracies of authors, innumerable. They baffe the best eilorts at 
chissification, except under general heads. The most elaborately formed 
laws for recording their titles would be inadequate to provide for entire 
uniformity or consistency. Doubts and difficulties would inevitably arise as 
to the application of the laws. These must, to prevent varying decisions, 
i)e submitted to one person. Hence it is important that the first part of 
the work, which will furnish examples for the rest, should be done under 
the immediate eye of the superintendent. 

Easy as the operation may seem, to those who have never attempted if, 
there is no species of literary labor so difficult, or that requires knowdedge 
so extensive and various, as the cataloguing of a large library. It demands 
peculiar qualifications of patience and accuracy, and a special education — a 
professional training. Even those most expert must work slowly, if 
they would avoid mistakes. It is therefore a great consideration that, on 
this plan, each title, once prepared, is prepared lor all the libraries in which 
the book occurs ; wdiereas, on any other, time and thought and labor are 
repeated for every copy of the book. 

From the favor with which the plan has been met, it can hardly be doubted 
that it will receive the hearty and vigorous co-operation of all the libraries 



41 [ 1 ] 

in the country. Several are ready to begin upon their catalogues at once. 
For the reasons already stated, however, it is desiralde to begin here. At 
first the work 'cannot proceed rapidly. After the accuinulalion of a con- 
fciderahle number of titles, progress will be much accelerated. 

(ireat as this enterpiise is, it will not iTfjuire the outlay of much money 
o!) the part of the Smithsonian Institution to jnit it in operation, whicii 
beins: once done, it will take care of itself. It will iiot be a constant 
drain upon our funds; but on the contrary, it vsill eie ]ci:g far more 
than repay in the facilities ibr making our own catalogues, all that may at 
first be expended upon it. 

Respectfully submitted, 

CHARLES C. JEWETT. 

December 31, 1850. 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY 

IN CHARGE OF THE NATURAE HISTORY DEPARTMENT, I'OR THE YEAR 1850. 



'I'o Joseph Henry, LL. D., 

Sccretcrrj/ of the Smithsonian Instifntion. 

Sir: — I beg leave to j^irescnt to you a report of operalions up tf> 
.lanuai-y I, iSOi, in the Department of Natural History assigned to my 
cliarge. 

I commence with a list of the most important specimens of Na.tural 
History received at the Smithsonian Institution, j^rior to January 1, 1851. 
The dates vof reception have not been given, owing to tfe f;;c(, tluit most 
hatl arrived bei'ore July 1, 1850, the peiiod v^litu my olKcial conr.ection 
with the Institution commenced. More detailed accounts of these objects 
v,ill hereafter be furnished, as well as of those which nuiy in future be 
received. 

List of the Principnl Accpssions to the J\hfscv7n of the Sviilhsonian Insti- 
tution, made })rior to January 1, 1S51. 

I.ient. F.vvcii, U. S. N. ; Sealt;il buttles coiit.iiiiiii:,' Wartjr fVoiii tlie Dead Sun — Cones of the 
C'cd.ii- ()(' l.eij.iiioii. 

.Mi-;< I). I,. I)i\; B)xor Minernl-! fioni Nortli C.iio'id.i. 

Dr. V. (J. lIoiUMi; Box of Minerals and F)ssi!s Croin St. I^awienne conn^y, New York. 

Mr. (;ui;st; Box of.Minerals fioni .same localiiy. 

iMr. roi.KiNMon.v ; Box ofTerliary fossils \'u)ut Xortli Carolina. 

Dr. .Iamks F'iohts, Alhaiiy, New York; B iv of Sands, Clays and Cuncretions from the vicinit/ 
(if the city of .Mhany, .New Vorlc. 

Dr. William B. Smitm, Indiana ; Silurian (o~s Is fioni Indiana. 

William Phili.ii's, V.y^(\., Angnsta, (jlenr^ia ; Box of iMiiierals Iron) (jeorgia, 

Osc.^ii Fkeeman and (jilbert Tavluh, Civil Kngineer.s; Very large ppecininii.s of Crystallized 



[ 1 ] 42 



Calcareoii« Spnr, coated with Quartz, found in tunnelling "St. Anthony's Nose," Peeks- 
kill, New York. 

Faxos D. a iHKKiON', Esq ; Specimens of Native Silver from Chili. 

Major B. Alvord, Fort Gratiot, Michigan ; Keg containing Fishes from Lake Huron, caught in 
the vicinity of Fort Gratiot. 

Col. J.J. Abv-rt; Box of Minerals from Arkansas. 

R. J. Por.r.ARn, Washington City; Skeleton of Gazelle, (Antelope saiga Pall.) from Turkey. 

Thomas VVhklplky, Bre.^t, Michigan; Cask of Unionidae and other Shells, from Lake Erie. 

John G. Pendekgast, Sackelts Harbor ; Box of AJinerals. 

Dr. Jaked p. Kirtlan'd, Cleveland, Ohio ; jar of rare Salamanders. ■ 

Major J. IL Cari. ETON, Fort Leavenworth; Skull of Bijihorn, (Ovis montana,) — Horns of Big- 
horn — Antlers of Black tailed Deer, (Cervus macrotis,) — Skull of Antelope, (Aniilope 
americana,) from Black Hills, Fort Laramie. 

W. PincEON, Iowa ; Crania and other relics from various aboriginal mounds — Paintings in oil 
on cloth, of various iMounds in the North West, by a native Sioux Indian. 

Robert Howell, Nichols, Tioga county. New York ; Box of Minerals and Fossils from 
Tioga county, New York. 

The follounn^ Specimens have been received from Collectors who were 
assisted in their Explorations hy the Smithsonian Institution. 

Augustus Fk\dlkr; Collections of Plants made in the vicinity of Santa Fe, New Mexico, in 

l«4G-47. 

Charles Wright ; Plants collected in an expedition from Texas to El Paso, in 1849. 

THAnoEns CuLBKRTsoN ; Skins, Skulls and Skeletons of Mammalia, from the Upper Missouri. 
Fossil vertebrate animals from White River. 

Many specimens brought bat-k l)y j\[r. Culbeiison were presented, 
to the Institution tlirough him, by members of the American Fur Com- 
pany ; among whom may be mentioned Messrs. Alexander Culbertson, 
Ferdinand Culbertson, Edward T. Denig, Schlagel and Gilbert. Messrs. 
Denig and F. Culbertson, at the request of Mr. Alexander Culbertson, 
prepared skins of the Grizzly Betir, and other large Mammalia. 

The folloimng Specimens have been deposited in conformity with the 
provisions of the Act establishing the Smithsonian Institution. 

General Land Oitice ; Minerals illustrating the (leological Survey of the .Mineral region of 
Lake Superior, by Dr. Charles T. .lacksoii, contained mi nineteen boxes. 

Possessing myself large collections in different branches of Zoology, I 
have deposited them with the Institution. The following list contains a 
])rief enumeration of the most important of these. It will thus be evident 
to the Naturalist, that the objects already secured by the Smithsonian In- 
stitution, if not as numerous as in other collections, are yet valual)le as 
being more than usually complete in certain neglected branches of Na- 
tural History. 

Summary oj Specimens belonging to S. F. Baird, and deposited by him 
in the Cabinet of the Smithsonian Institution. 

MAMMALIA. 

Skins of the principal Mammalia of the Northern and Middle States, and of Eastern Europe, 
Willi nuuierons specimens ol' the smaller species, preserved in alcohol. 



43 [ 1 ] 



BIRDS. 

A collection of about five hiindretl species of North American Birds, in skini', consisting of 
about twenty-live hundred specimens in the varioii? stages of age, sex, and season. 

Aliout two iiundred and fifty species of European Birds, in one tiiousand specimens. 

Lggs of about one hundred and fifty species of North American Birds. Duplicates of many of 
them, in some ca-ics amoiiii ing to over a hundred of a single species. The nests accom- 
pany the eggs of many of these species. 

Nests and Eggs of about seventy-five species of European Birds, likewise in duplicate. 

REPTILES AND FISHES. 

A collection of the Reptiles and Fishes of the United States, at present contained in more than 
five Iiundred glass jars, and in numerous barrels, kegs and tin vessels. Most of the 
.species are represented i)y numerous s[)eciinens, amouniiug in certain cases to hundreds 
and even thousands of a single species. No a[)proxi(niition can, at present, be formed as 
to the number, cither of the specimens or of the species. Very many, especially of ihe 
Fishes, are still nndescribed. Most of them have been personally collected in special expe- 
ditions to various parts of the country, such as Eastern and Western Pennsylvania, the 
(ireat Lakes, Northern and Eastern (Jhio, Southern and Western Virginia, &c. Others 
have been lurnished by contributors in Georgia, Florida, Mississip[)i, Aikansas aiid other 
states. This collection is es[)ecially rich in l)alracliiaii reptiles, which are [ue-erved in 
large nniiibers in all their peculiar conditions of translbrmalidii. 'J'liere is, in addition to 
these, a good collection of the fresh water Fishes and Ke[)tiles of Central and Eastern 
Euro[)e. 

EMBRYOLOGY. 

Embryos of many Birds, Mammals, and Batrachian Reptiles. 

OSTEOLOGY. 

Skulls and Skeletons of many North A.meric.an vertebrata, amounting to some six Iir.ndred 
specimens. A considerable tiumber, also, belonging to European species. 

Also, Microscopical sections of Teeth and Bone of various species of North America ver 
tebrata. 

FOSSIL REMAINS. 

A large collection of fossil bones from various eaves in Pennsylvania and V''ireinia. This in- 
cludes nearly all tlie species of Mammalia now living in the United .Slates, with quite a 
number of those which are now eiuirely extinct. Uheloniaii remains likewise in large 
number. 

HavinsT thus presented the general statistics of the Museum up to 
the present time, I next proceed to a statement of the more active 
operations of the Natural History department of the Institution. For an 
account of wliat had been done up to 1850, hy Messrs Lindheimer, Fend- 
ler jfnil Wright, I would refer to the Appendix to yotir last re{)ort (for 
]S4n. The expeditions undertaken since that time, have heen those of jNIr. 
Culhertson and myself. 

The expe lltion of Mr. Thaddeus Culhertson took place daring the past 
summer. For several years I have been receiving valua!)le specimens 
iVom different friends, in the Upper Missouri, whose other (hities, however, 
})revented them from collecting as much as could h;\\v heen wished. 
Mr. Culhertson being about to visit this region for the l)enellt of his health, 
olfered to make for the Smithsonian Instittition such collections in Natural 
History, as might be indicated to him as desirable; I accordingly prejiared 
a list of desiderata, and among others, directed his attention to the eocene 
deposits of White River, known as the Mauvaises Terres or l)ad lands. Tie 
accordingly set out from St. Louis, in April, in company with his brother 
A, Culhertson, Esq., for many years connected with the American Fur 
company, and then on liis way to look after its affairs in the remote regions 



[1] 



44 



of the Yellowstone. From St. Louis they proceeded to St. Josephs in a 
steamboat, and thence by land, in a carriage to Fort Pierre. A day or 
two after arriving at this fort, Mr. Culbertson started out to the " Ead 
Lands" with a party, and after several (htys march reached the spot where 
Mr. A. Culbertson had previously found the fossil Mammalia, (Poebrothe- 
i-ium Wilsonii, Merycoidodon Culbertsonii, &c.,) presented by inm to the 
Academy of Natural Sciences, and described by Dr. Leidy. Here aildi- 
tional specimens were soon found, and a cart was laden to its utmost 
capacity. With these, the party returned to I'ort Pierre, whence, after a 
short rest, Mr. C. embarked on board the El Paso, and in her, ascended 
the Missouri to a point above Milk river, some hundreds of miles beyond 
Fort LInion, and higher than any steamboat had ever gone previously. 
Descending the river again, after but short stops at the various trading 
])Osts, Mr. C. arrived in St. Louis in July, and reached his home in Cham- 
bersburg, Pennsylvania, in August. The main object of his tiip, viz : 
relief from a distressing cough, threatening consumption, had been gained, 
and his renewed strength gladtlened the hearts of his friends. But shortly 
after his return he was attacked by an unusually fatal form of bilious 
dysentery, then prevalent in the neigliborhood, and died after an illness of 
a few weeks. Mr. C. left a full journal of all the events connected with 
Jiis trip, though without any view to its publication. This, which was un- 
revi?ed by him at his death, I found to contain much interesting uiatter, 
relative to the Natufal History and topography of the country, the manners 
and statistics of the Lidians, &c. The manuscript was put into my hands 
by the parents of Mr. Culbertson, with permission to select for publication 
such portions as might be deemed desirable. I therefore present tiiis 
journal to you, as containing the only account of the country above Fort 
l^ierre, since 1833, when it was visited by the Prince de Wied. It maybe 
well to observe ■ that I have not felt at liberty to alter the original to 
any juaterial extent, which, combined with the fact of its entire lack of 
revision by the author, will be a sufficient excuse for any imperfections 
of style. 

The fossil remains procured by Mr. Culbertson, constitute an exceed- 
ingly interesting series of Mammalian and Reptilian species, including 
many that had never been desciibed. These have been referred to 
J)r. Leidy, for examination, who has already characterized four species 
of Mammalia : 

Rhinoceros occidentalis. * 

" Nebraskensis. 

Palaeothericm Pairdii. 
Agriodiffirus antiquus. 

The otlier specimens brought by Mr. C. consisted of skulls, skins and 
skeletons of the larger Mammalia, as bulTalo, grizzly bear, prairie wolf, 
(Canis latrans) white wolf, (Coccidentalis) wolverine, (Gulo luscus,) beaver, 
&,c., &c. Some of these he collected himself, others had been procured 
during the previous v.-inter, by Messrs. E. T. Denig, and Fei'dinand Cul- 
bertson, at the request of Alexander Cull)ertson. Various specimens were 
also obtained from other gentlemen connected with the American Fur Com- 
j)any. It is due to this company to stiite, that with their usual liberality, 
they rendered Mr. C. every assistance in their power, as they had previously 
done to the Prince de Wied, Nicollet, Audubon, Evans and oljser travel- 
ers. The thanks of the Institution are due to Messrs. Denig and F. Cul- 



45 [ 1 ] 

bertson, anl especially to Mr. Alexamler Culhertson for their valuable 
services. The latter S2;entleinaii bore the entire expense of the trip from 
Fort Pierre to the Mauvaises Terres, besides paying a considerable smu 
to hunters and others for many of the specimens sent. 

The second expedition referred to as undertaken by myself, had mainly 
for its object the investigation of the ichthyology of Northern New York and 
Vermont. With three companions, in the months of July and August last, 
I visited the northern shores of Lake Champlain, the valley of the Upper 
Hudson, Lake George, the St. Lawrence river, lake Ontario and Seneca 
lake. 

In tiiis trip many sjiecies of animals, ajid especially of- fishes, both de- 
scribed and undescribed, were obtained, and many interesting tacts as(^-^r- 
tained with re'rard to their g-eoo-niphical (listri!)ution. A remarkable new 
genius of Cottoid lishes (Triglopsis,) discovered in late Ontario, will shortly 
be published by tlie Institution, in a monograph prepared by Mr. C. GIrard. 

I beg leave in conclusion to present some general suggestions in regard to fu- 
ture operations of the Smithsonian Institution, in the department of Natural 
History. It is a fundamental principle in its organization, as presented in 
the programme ajid in your iumual reports, not to attempt co nplete col- 
lections of all natural objects, but rather to gather up such materials for 
investigation as have been comparatively neglected by others. It may, in- 
deed, be desirable, for purposes of general examination, to have extensive 
series of specimens from the three kingdoms of nature — animal, vegetable, 
and mineral, so far as they can lie procured and exhibited without umlue 
expense of time, money and space. For the present, however, attention 
should be directed mainly to such branches as hitherto may not have had 
tlieirdue share of attention. 

A prominent object in making collections shouhl be to furnish to 
travellers the means of deter nining the character of objects collected in 
various parts of North America. 

Hitlrerio, o.'iicers of the army returning to Washington have generally been 
obliged to send or c irry t'lese objects out of the city, for the purpose of 
identi.'ication or veri'ic ition, thus involving a considerable loss of time 
and credit. These specimens becoming widely scattered, rarely return 
hither, and when another occasion arises, the whole labor has to be 
repeated. By retaining them here and combining with them such series 
of specimens from North America, and other parts of the world, as may 
be specially procured far the purpose, vei-y li'tle delay in miking uf) 
reports, need hoi-eafler arise. It will, of course, be necessary to call 
in the aid of the library in procuring all the general and special works 
v/hich may be required in these investigations. Towards such help the 
rich collection of transactions of learned societies, alrea;ly in the library of 
the Institution, and augmenting daily, will greatly tend. 

Collections illustrating the general Natural History of North America, 
become then, an object of primary importance. Much valuable material of 
this kind is now on hand, and mucli, it is hoped, will be procured in th(r 
various ways hereafter specified. An exceedingly important aid to this is 
furnished by the act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian Institution 
which specifies that all objects of Natural History belonging, or hereafter 
to belong to the United States, in whosoever custody the same may be, 
shall be delivered to such persons as are authorized by the Board of llegents 
to receive them. This entrusts to the Institution the custody of all col'ec- 



[1 ] 



46 



tions publicly and officially made ; but tbere are many valuable specimens 
procured in a private way whose acquisition must depend on the co-opera- 
tion and assistance of officers of the various expeditions, and of heads of de- 
partments. Officers stationed at the various military posts, have it in their 
powder to do much, by procuring the objects of Natural History in their 
vicinity, and forwarding them to Washington. It is earnestly hoped 
that this co-operation may be obtained generally. 

Next in importance to North American objects of nature, are those of 
Europe. The ties uniting the two continents are not merely those of moral, 
civil and political relationship, for the connection existing between the 
Natural History of the two is almost as intimate. A large proportion of 
the genera found in the one, occur in the other, often the same species, or 
those that are very closely allied. This is true of all orders of animals and 
of most families of plants. 

Next to Europe comes Japan, a region which, in some respects, is more 
closely allied to our country, than even Europe. This is especilly the 
cas3 wath respect to the reptiles, some of which, as species of Plestiodon, 
and others have been considered by eminent herpetologists absolutely 
identical with North American. Unfortunately there are at the present 
time almost insuperable difficulties in the way of procuring Japanese 
specimens; the Dutch Naturalists being the only ones who have succeeded 
in exploring even the shores of this country. Little can be done, there- 
fore, except by exchange with the museums of Holland. 

With ren^ard to collections from other countries than those specified, 
the best rule will be to seek for those series which the other museums of 
the country do not possess. What these are, I do not, at present, feel 
prepared to state; but hope to have it in my powder in a future re- 
port, to illustrate more fully this subject, in a general account of the dif- 
ferent collections in North America. 

It may, perhaps, be well to indicate briefly the branches of North 
American Natural History which have recieved most attention. Mam- 
malia have been ably investigated by Godman, Harlan, Audubon, Bach- 
man and others ; the present state of our knowledge of the subject being 
exhibited in the works of the two last named gentlemen. There is, 
however, no good collection of these animals; that of the Academy of 
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, being much the best in the countay. The 
private collection of Mr. Audubon is more complete than any other. It is 
a mortifying fact that this gentleman was obliged to have recourse to 
foreign museums for the purpose of figuring and describing certain North 
American species, which should have been accessible in one collection, at 
least, in this country. 

The ornithological collections of the country, both public and private are 
very numerous. Among the former, that of the Academy of Natural 
Sciences, is by far the best. The New York Lyceum, and the Boston 
Natural History Society have pretty good collections. Of private collec- 
tions, among the best are those of Messrs. Bell, Giraud and Lawrence, of 
New York. The ornithology of North America, east of the Mississippi, 
has been pretty well worked up, but much remains to be done west of 
this boundary. 

General collections of North American reptiles are very rare in this 
country, that of the Philadelphia academy as usual, being the best among 
public museums. , 



47 [ 1 ] 

Fishes have been preserved In several museums throughout the country. 
The Eoston Natural liistory Society has the best series of Morth Anieiican 
marine s}X^cies. The New York Lyceum conies next. Neither possesses 
many fresh water species, l)eing vastly exceeded in this respect by the col- 
lections of Professor Agassiz and nty own. There is uiore difliculty in pre- 
serving alcoholic specimens, (as collections of reptiles and fishes must, for 
the most part necessarily be) than those that aie diied; it is to this fact 
that the scanty representation of these classes of vertebrata, is owing. 

Among insects, Coleoptera have been almost exclusively studied. The 
private collections of Messrs. Leconte, Ualdeman, ]\lorris, llanis, ]\lel- 
sheimer and many others, are rich in species. The Messrs. Leconte, father 
and son, have the largest of these, embracing many hundrtds iuid iiuieeii 
thousands of undescribed species. The public collection oi' the Academy 
of Natural Sciences at Philadelphia, and others, are of less value. Le- 
pidoptera, or butterflies and moths, come next. The best collection per- 
haps of these, is that of Mr. Titian Peale, of Washington ; Messrs. Harris, 
Morris, and Hakleman, and the Academy of Natuial Sciences of Phila- 
delphia, have also good collections. 

Comparatively little is known of the other orders of insects. The Neu- 
roptera and Orthoptera of New England have been collected by Dr. Harris ; 
Diptera, Hemiptera, anil Hymeno})tera, have been almost entirely neglected. 
Say is almost the only American Natui-alist who has occupietl the whole 
field of Entomology. 

Spiders have been ably investigated and abundantly collected by Hentz, 
who is still contimiing his labors in this department. ]\Iuch, howev.er, re- 
mains to be done. 

The Podophthalmian Crustacea are preserved in various cabinets, although 
many species yet await discovery. Messrs. Say, Dana, and Gibbes, are 
the principal workers in this field. The remaining orders, as Amphipoda, 
Entomostraca, Lsopoda, &c., &c., have been almost wholly neglected. 

The North American worms have never been collected to any extent. 

Of all invertebrata, the hai-d parts of Mollusca, or shells, have received 
most attention in this countiy. There are mnnerous valuable cabinets, 
public and private, including both domestic and foreign species. The best 
public collection of American species, is probably that of the Academy of 
Natural Sciences. Among private ones, may be named those of Dr. John 
C. Jay, John S. Phillips, Isaac Lea, Major John Leconte, J. G. Anthony, 
Professor llaldeman, and others. Most of these gentlemen have had es- 
pecial reference to Unionidae in their collections. Nothing, however, 
has been done towards preserving a series of the animals of shells. 

Very little is known of the Radiata of North America. A few species 
are preserved in public nuiseums, but by far the most extensive collection is 
that belonging to Professor Agassiz. 

Phanerogamic plants have received much attention, and the ju-jvate col- 
lections of Drs. Torrey, Gray and others, with numerous public ones of 
greater or less extent, leave comparatively little to be desired in this respect. 
Great additions are continually being received from the country west of 
the Mississippi, in collections made by officers of the army and private indi- 
viduals. Among these should be mentioned Col. Fremont, Col. Emory, 
Capt. Stansbury, Major Rich, Messrs. Lindheimer, Wright, Fendler, Gregg, 
Wislizenus, Drummond, and others. 

Cryptogamic botany has been considerably neglected until withui a few 



[ 1 ] 



48 



years past. The best collections are in the hands of private individuals, as 
Messrs. Sullivant, Tuckernian, Curtis, Bailey, Lesquereux, and others. A 
great deal remains still to be done in this branch of botany. The work of 
l)r. Harvey on North American Algffi, in preparation for the Smithsonian 
Institution, will tend greatly to stimulate collectors to pay attention to 
this order. 

Collections in Palaeontology are quite numerous, though principally local. 
The best general collection is that of the Academy of Natural Sciences. 
Their museum is incomparably richer than any other in this country, 
in collections of fossil vertebrata. The only collection of any extent, of the 
fossil bones found in the caves of the United States, is in the cabinet of this 
Institution. Of the interesting Eocene species of the Upper Missouri, Dr. 
Evans of Washington has made an exceedingly valuable collection, under 
direction of the Land O.Tice. Next to this comes a similar one made by 
Mr. Cull)ertson for the Smithsonian Institution. An excellent collection of 
tertiary fossils is in possession of Professor F. S. Holmes, of Charleston, 
South Carolina. The tertiary and cretaceous fossil shells in the Philadel- 
phia Academy are very numerous in species. 

Many of the Mineralogical collections of this country are very complete, 
both as. respects Domestic and Foreign species. Such are the cabinets of 
Yale College, of the Academy of Natural Sciences, of Dartmouth College, 
of Bowdoin College, of Messrs. Markoe, Vaux, Clay, Ashmead, Alger, 
Bouve, and others. The general interest in the subject of Mineralogy 
is such as scarcely to require any additional stimulus, except so far as 
relates to Geology. 

There are various ways in which collections may be made by the Smith- 
sonian Institution, the principal of which arc as follow : 

Deposits by Government, 
" Indivitluals, 

Excliange, 

Purchase, 

Employment of Collectors, 

Donations. 
To the first of these, I have already briefly referred. Up to the present 
time nothing has been received, save the series of specimens illustrating Dr. 
Jackson's report on the mineral lands of Lake Superior. 

In some collections, specimens deposited by individuals form a conspic- 
uous feature. Thcse^ when of considerable extent and completeness, or 
when illustrating some special researches or publications, are often very 
important, particularly as they are, in most cases, ultimately presented. 
Single specimens, unless of much value, are not generally desirable, as 
deposits. Free choice must, of course, be left the Institution, to say 
what shall be received, and what rejected. 

To the individual collector, exchange with other individuals or with so- 
cieties, forms the principal mode of forming his cabinet, beyond what may 
be personally procurable. This of course, implies that the specimens be 
gathered in larger quantities than would be necessary for a single collec- 
tion. By a judicious system of exchange, based upon a large stock of 
duplicates, it becomes possible to procure almost any species, domestic or 
foreign, at little expense beyond that of transportation. To this end it is 
desirable to secure large numbers of such objects as may be specified here- 
after. 



49 [ 1 ] 

Purchase is an excellent method of increashig a collection in a sliort 
time. It not unfrequently happens, however, that acquisitions thus made 
are of comparatively little value, as is found to be the case in regard to 
most of the miscellaneous museums, public and private, which are offered 
for sale. It is of course different with respect to collections made for a 
specific purpose by practised Naturalists, particularly when they contain 
undescribed species, or serve as the types of standard w^orks. Considerable 
operations of this kind require large sums of money as will be seen by re- 
ference to the annual statement of expenditures made by the British govern- 
ment in behalf of the National Museum;* and wath the numerous drafts on 
its income, it is not deemed expedient for the Smithsonian Institution ever 
to do much for its cabinet by direct purchase. It is confidently believed 
too, that the Museum will increase almost as rapidly as accommodations 
can be furnished, by donations of individuals, who may have it in their 
power to make collections, as well as by the special efforts of its officers. 
This hope is strengthened by the actual experience of other institutions. 

The employment or assistance of collectors in visiting particular por- 
tions of countVy is productive of very important results at very little 
expense. In illustration of this, I would refer to the acquisitions made by 
the Institution through Messrs. Lendler, Lindheimer, Wright, Culbertson, 

* Expenditures by the British Government for the specimens of JS'^atural 
History in the British Museum,, 

FROM 1753 TO 1846 inclusive. 

Natural History ill general, - - - £10,405 3 8 

Minerals and F(.ssi Is, - - - 17,-^:W ]-2 1 

Zoological siieciiisens, - - - t"2,751 4 11 

Botanical, 1,-2U4 11 7 



Jlinerals and Fossils, 
Zoolo<;ical ;-pecimens, 
ISotaiiical specimens, 
Preparation of speciuieBs, 



Minerals and Fossils, 
Zdolooical specimens, 
Botanical specimens. 
Preparation of specimens, 



1847. 



1848. 



1849, 



672 


2 


9 


1,295 


17 


8 


:n 


15 





1,317 


7 


5 


i.m 


16 


9 


1,085 


5 


10 


40 


1 


3 


1,259 


11 


6 


701 


12 





1 ,080 


6 


1 


40 


8 


3 


945 


14 


7 



— £ 41,599 12 



— 3,297 2 10 



— 3,496 15 4 



INIinerals and Fossils, 
Zooiojlicai specimens, 
Botanical specimens, 
I'reparation of specimens, 

— — 2,768 00 11 

Total, £51,161 H 2 

Total ErpendUiirRS of nlUiinds, Natural Ilistorij, Specimens, Boohs, Fine Arts, S^c. 
From 1753 to 1H46 inclusive, ... £ 816,063 11 

1847, - ... 49,854 7 10 

1848, - . - 49,845 2 11 

1849, - - - 47,791 3 4 

•963,555 5 1 

Mis — 4. 



[ 1 ] 50 

and others. In this I am also borne out by my own experience. For se- 
veral years past, I have been in the habit of visiting different portions of 
tlie United States, mainly in search of vertebrate animals. Accompanied on 
such occasions by zealous volunteers, I have succeeded in accumulating very 
extensive collections, including very many rare, and even undescribed spe- 
cies, besides obtaining much valuable information in regard to the general 
history of animals and plants. 

It is mainly to the employment of collectors, that the great European 
museums owe their richness. In most of these a regular corps is employed 
continually, in travelling through various portions of the world and gath- 
ering large numbers of duplicates which are ultimately distributed, in ex- 
change to other institutions. 

In cases where memoirs, containing descriptions of animals or plants are 
presented to the Institution for publication, it should, as far as possible, be 
made a condition of their acceptance, that a series of the objects described 
be deposited for the purpose of being placed on record, and as authenticating 
the species. These should be labelled by the author, and the names thus 
attached, be ever afterward retained, even though they may have been in- 
correct, or may have been modified by subsequent discoveries. Individuals 
too, should be requested to present shnilar specimens to be kept in the 
same manner, illustrating descriptions published elsewhere than by the 
Smithsonian Institution. 

At some future period, when the number of duplicates is sufficiently large, 
it may be possible to furnish lyceums, schools, colleges and other institutions 
with series of specimens properly labelled and arranged, of various branches 
of Natural History. Individuals too, engaged in special investigations, 
may hereafter find it practicable to procure objects in such quantities or of 
such character, as to render material, if not indispensable aid. This feature 
will, however, require the cordial co-operation of naturalists and collectors, 
to render it practicable. 

I may remark that for the assistance of those who may be unskilled In 
the collecting, preservation and packing of specimens, a pamphlet containing 
the directions is now in preparation, and w^ill shortly be Issued by the Insti- 
tution. This wall be of considerable size, and in addition to the merely 
taxidermical portions, will contain notices of special desiderata, in particular 
portions of the world ; a brief indication of the principal divisions of Natu- 
ral History ; and notices of the most accessible sources to which the be- 
ginner must apply for information respecting the different branches of the 
subject ; the whole illustrated by figures. 

Respectfully submitted, 

SPENCER F. BxiIRD 

December 31, 1850. 



51 [ 1 ] 



No. II. 
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



The Executive committee submitted to the Board the followino; report of 
the expenditures, state of finances, &c., of the Smithsonian Institution 
up to the end of the year, 18-50: 

The whole amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into 

tlie Treasury of the United States, was $ 515,169 00 

The annual interest on the same at six per 

cent., is $30,910 04 

The interest which had accrued up to July, 1846, 

when tiie trust was placed under the care of 

the Regents, was 242,129 00 

Total, S^ 757,298 00 



The Regents were authorized to expeml on the building, the $242,129, 
which had accrued in interest, together with such portions of interest on the 
original bequest as miglit remain unexpended in any year. It was, however 
thought that the income of the original bequest would be small in propor- 
tion to the demand made upon it, in carrying out the several parts of the 
extended plan of organization, and in defraying the necessary expenses of a 
large building. The Regents, therefore determined to increase the perma- 
nent fund by saving from the accrued and accruing interest, the sum of 
5S150,()00, and for this purpose they resolved to linut the expenditure on 
the building and grounds to the sum of $250,000. In order to save a part 
of the accrued interest, it was further resolved that the building should not 
be completed at once, but in the course of a number of years, and that the 
sum intended for its erection, should be put at interest, so that the income 
from this source, might in part, defray the expense of the edifice. 

To carry out this plan, the $242,000 of accrued interest with an addition 
of interest sufficient to make up $250,000, were drawn from the Treasury 
and invested in United States securities, and in order that the Institution 
miglit not suffer loss by any depreciation of these securities, the contracts 
of the building were made payal)le in Treasury notes at par value, or in 
!^]iecie, at the option of the Regents. 

Tins temporary investment has proved entirely successful. It has 
yielded a constant interest, and also a premium in almost every case of sale, 
on account of the rise in the value of government securities. 

Of the original sum thus put at interest, there remains at present, 
$^180,000, which, at sixteen per cent., the present premium of government 
securities is worth $208,800. From this it appears, that after all the ex- 
penditure on the building and grounds, on researches, publications and lec- 
tures, on the Library, Museum, and Gallery of Art, not only is the original 
bequest untouched, but there is now on hand, $208,800," of unexpended 
income. 

At the last meeting of the Board of Regents, it was resolved to fire-proof 



[1] 



52 



the interior of the centre building, at an additional expense of $44,000. 
The whole cost of the building and grounds in round numbers will then be 
Jiii300,000. The only way in which this additional expenditure can be met 
without interfering with the plan of finance above described, is that of ex- 
tending the time of completing the building. The scheme of adding to the 
original bequest, will be placed beyond the possibility of failure from any 
further demands on account of the building, if the petition presented to 
Congress, to take from the Institution, to be placed with the original be- 
quest, the sum of JtploO,000 be granted, there will then remain on hand 
unexpended, a sura sufficient to complete the whole of the exterior, all the 
interior of the two wings and of the two ranges, and all the rooms of the 
towers of the building. This space will be sufficient for the wants of the 
Institution, until the accumulating interest will enable the Regents to finish 
the remainder in accordance with the fire-proof plan. 

At the last meeting of the Board, a new system of keeping the accounts, 
and making the disbursements was adopted. From the beginning of the 
Institution up to this time, the accounts had been kept and the disburse- 
ments made by the Chairman of the Executive committee. This method 
was temporarily adopted, but had been continued until the expiration of the 
term of service of the Hon. W. W. Seaton, Chairman of the Executive com- 
mittee, rendered a change necessary. This gentleman had kept the accounts 
from the beerinnins:, and made the disbursements without charge to the In- 
stitution, and since it was not proper to burthen his successor with such 
onerous duties, it was resolved that the following system be adopted : 

1. That an assistant be appointed to take charge of the funds for the 
current expenses of the Institution, who shall give security for the safe 
keeping of all moneys belonging to the Institution, which shall come into 
his possession. 

2. That the funds before mentioned, be deposited until otherwise ordered, 
with Messrs. Corcoran and Riggs, to the credit of the Treasurer of the In- 
stitution. 

3. That all bills presented for payment, shall be audited and certified by 
the Secretary, on whose order, the assistant acting as Treasurer shall pay 
them. 

4. That the Treasurer report to the Secretary monthly, all payments 
made by him during the preceding month. 

5. That all accounts be examined and certified by the Executive com- 
mittee. 

6. That the account books be kept in the Smithsonian building, so that 
the Secretary and Executive committee may have ready access to them. 

The Hon. W. W. Seaton was chosen Treasurer, and signified his accept- 
ance of the office, but that he would receive no compensation for his services. 

The new system of accounts went into operation at the beginning of July 
last, and has been continued up to this time with satisfaction to the com- 
mittee. 

At the beginning of the institution it was not possible before knowing the 
developement of the plans of organization, in practical operation to adopt a 
classification of accounts showing the expenditure for dilTerent objects. 
The plan of operations is now however so far established, that a system of 
classification may be adopted. 

The Secretary has accordingly, with the assistance of the other officers 
of the Institution, prepared a programme of accounts, which may serve until 



51 [ 1 ] 

the buildino- is completed, and aftcnvards form the basis of a classification for 
all future operations. This programme which receives the approbation of 
the committee is as follows : 

PROGRAMME OF ACCOUNTS. 

I. BUILDING, FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, GROUNDS. 

1. Pay on contracts for buildino-. 

2. Pay of architects and superintendents, including oiiice and inci- 

dentals. 

3. Expenses of building committee, including clei'k hire. 

4. Incidental expenses to building, viz : 

( 1. ) Experiments on, and tests of, Building Materials. 

( 2. ) Examination of Quarries. 

( o. ) Miscellaneous. 

( 4. ) Premiums paid Architects. 

5. l''urniture and Fixtures for uses in common. 

Do. (h). Publications. 

Do, do. Researches. 

Do. do. Lectures and Apparatus. 

Do. do. Library. 

Do. do. Museum. 

Do. do. Gallery of Art. 

6. Grounds. 

II. GENERAL EXPENSES. 

1. Expenses of the Board of Regents and Committees. 

2. Lighting and Heating. 
o. Postage. 

4. Transportation. 

0. Stationery. 

(), General Piinting. 

7. Licidentals general, including Messenger, Clerk hire, &c. 

8. Salaries. 

III. PUBLICATIONS, RESEARCHES AND LECTURES. 

1. Publications. 
( L ) Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 

2. ) Reports on Progress of Knowledge. 

3. ) Other Publications. 
Researches. 
( L ) Meteorology. 

2. ) Computations. 

3. ) Investigations. 

3. Lectures. 
( J . ) Pay of Lecturers. 
( 2. ) Illustrations for Lectures. 
( 3. ) Attendance, Lighting, Advertising, &c. 

4. Apparatus. 

5. Salaries. 



[ 1] 



54 



IV. LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND GALLERY OF ART. 

1. Library. 

( 1. ) Cost of Books. 

( 2. ) General Catalogue. 

( 3. ) Copyrights. 

( 4. ) Incidentals to Library, Binding, ^Messengers, Clerk hire, &c. 

( 5. ) Salaries. 

2. Museum. 

( 1. ) Explorations. 

{ 2. ) Expenses of Collections. 

( 3. ) Cost of Transportation. 

( 4. ) Incidentals to Museum. 

( 5. ) Salaries. 
8. Gallery of Art. 

( 1. ) Purchases. 

( 2. ) Incidentals. 
The Secretary has also with the assistance of Professor Jewett, and Col. 
W. B. Randolph, of the United States Treasury Department, gone over all 
the accounts from the beginning of the Institution, and re-arranged them 
in accordance with this programme. In making this re-arrangement, and 
critical examination of all the accounts, they have found no errors of any 
magnitude, and the amount of receipts and expenditure in this new arrange- 
ment perfectly agree with those presented in the general account of Mr. 
Seaton. 

In a few cases payments have been made in accordance with the spirit of 
the resolutions of the Board, but which fall under no special appropriation, 
the committee would therefore suggest that a special action of the Board be 
taken with reference to these. 



GENERAL EXHIBIT 

OF ALL THE RECEIPTS ON ACCOUNT OF THE SMITHSONIAN FUND, AND 

THE DISPOSITION OF THE SAME, FROM THE BEGINNING OF 

THE INSTITUTION, UNTIL THE PRESENT TIME. 



[ 1 ] 56 

Dr. fund account OF 

RECEIPTS. 

1846 July 1, To Jnmes Sniithson, net proceed.^ of his bequest, $515,169 00 

liileresi thereon to date, paid hy tiie Uniied States, 5i4:i,129 ()') 

Sept. 10, II. VV. Hilliaid, Hegeni, over [Kiyuieiit returned, 90 

1847 Jan. J, Interest on assumed deht, 1st July to ulst Decem- 

ber 1846, first hiilfyear, 15,4.55 C7 

July 5, Interest on assumed debt, to 1st July 1847, second 

ii;|jfyear, 15,455 07 

Oct. 21, Interest on .$2.50,000 Treasury noles,.to 17tii Au- 
gust, six months, 7,500 OO 
Nov. 26, Proceeds of Treasury notes sold, viz > anunuit of 

notes, $10,000 00. 

Interest to day of sale, 121 67 

10,121 67 



.f 805,i^:30 71 



1843 Jan. 1. To proceeds of Prof. Henry's Lcctitres at Prinoeton, §! 1 ,0U0 Oi> 

" 15, Inteiest on assumed debt, to 1st Januaiv, 1c?4d, 

third hair year, ' 15,4.55 OJ 

April I, " on $240,()((() Treasury notes to 17l!i Feb- 

ruary, 1848,. six nwnths, 7,200 00 

" 4, George M. Dallas, Chancellor, premium paid ior 

!|7,0()0 Treasury notes. 105 00 

" " deposit to credit 

of Wui. W- Seaton, Chairman, 95 00 

Slay 10, Proceeds ofTreasru-y notes viz, amount of notes $7,000 00' 
Premium, thereon, 140 Ol) 

Interest to day of sale, 45 50 



7,185 50 
July 7, Interest on assumed debt, to Isl July, 1848, 

fourth half vear, 15,455 00 

Aug. 17, " $240,000 Treasury notes, to 17lh Au- 

gust, SIX months, 7,200 00 

" 24, Proceeds of Treasury notes viz, amount of notes, 5,000 00 
Premium, $200 00 

Less coimuiasioii,. 12 50 

187 --.O 

Interest to day of sale, 5 00 

5,192 50 

Oct. 16 Proceeds of Treasirry notes, viz: amount of notes 9,000 tiO 
Premium, $270 00 
Less commission, 11 2-' 
Interest to day of sale, 



253 75 
85 50 


9,344 25 




S6-',232 25 




$15,455 14 




226,000 00 




6,780 00 



1849 Jan. 5, To Trit:erest on nsstimed debt, ftfth half year, 

Feb. 17, Treasury notes, this amount redeemed niul 

funded in United States six per cent stock, 

" 28, Interest on Treasury notes, $ 226,000, to 17lh 

February, six months, 

April 17, United States six per cent stofik sold, viz, amount 

of .stock $ 16,000 GO 

Premium, $1,600 00 

Less eommission,^ 40 00 

1,. 560 00 17,560 00 

July 2, Interest on $210 000 stock, fioni 17lh February, 

to :JOth June. 184'J 4,614 24 

" .5, " assumed debt, sixlh half year, 15,455 07 

Oct. 20, United States six per cent stock sold, viz, amount 

of Slock, $10,000 00* 

Premiuu,, $ 1,312 .50 

Less commission 25 00— l,ti87 50 11,287 50 

$297,151 95 



57 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



[ 1 ] 
Cr. 



EXPEXDITURES. 

1S4G Jn!v 1, By the United Slntes— jissiinied (Jel)l. 

Will. \V. Sejilon, (,"li;iirm;in F.,\erntive Comniiltee — 
From lieasiny ('iiiled States, 
liepjiitl l>y i\l r. H illiiiid, 
From tieiismy UiiiieiJ r^tiifes, 2 

ld47 Fell. 17, Treasury notes, proceeds of vvaiiiuit on trensnrv United Stales, 250 
AV m. \V. Seulon, C'liaiiriiiiii K,veciili\e Commiltte — 

From tre.-isiiiy I'lnled t^tales, 3 

Second li.-ill uar. interest on nssnnied debt, ITt 

Six nionilis inierest on .*jj<iiriO,(l(-() treasury notes, 7 
Tjoceeds of $10,000 notes sold, ' 10 



Jnlv 

Se,:t. 


1, 


Dec. 

Fell. 


10. 
21, 
17, 

2.3, 


Jnly 
Oct. 
Kov. 


21, 



5]5,1G9 00 

2,000 V.f) 

90 

000 00 

000 00 

r)Pi 07 

.4:5 07 
,500 00 
,121 07 



!f!eor),R:50 71 



1S43 Jan. 1, By Prnf. .Tnsepli Henrv, Serrefnrv, on ncrnnnt of liis ,=alnrv, 
'■ ]•", Win. W . Sealon, Chairinan E\euiili\e Conaniltee, third 

liaK" years intere>i, 
April 1, Treasury notes, investment of so mnch interest on notes 

received this day, 
Genrt-e iM. Dallas, (,'liancellor, balance of said interest, 
" 4, William \V. Seaton, (,'iiairmaii F.xecutive C'omn.iltee, 

deposited by Mr. Dallas, 
May 10, Proceeds of notes sold, 

,Tnly .'>, Fonrth half year's inlen^st 

Aug. 2, Interest on 'I'reasnry notes due 17th Angnst, 

'' 24, Proceeds of notes sold, 

Oct. U), Proceeds of noles sold. 

Profit and Loss, premium paid for .'tt!7,000 treasury notes, 



$1,000 Of) 
1.5,455 Oft 



7,0(!0 


oo 


200 


0(4 


95 


00 


7,1K5 


5(» 


15,455 


0(» 


7,200 


0(1 


5,192 


5tt- 


9,344 


2.'^ 


• 105 00 



$ 6d,232 25 



1849 Jan. 



Feb. 


17, 


< 


iy, 


A ^n\ 
Jnly 


17, 
2, 

7, 


Oct- 


2), 



9, By Win. W. Seaton, Chairman E.xecntive Committee, fifth 

iialf year's inieresi, $15,45 14 

United States six per cent stock, loan of br-47, 22(>,005 00 

Win. W. Seatcm, Chairman E.xecntive Committee, 

interest uii Treasury notes, 17ih Ftbruary, ('.'i-O 00 

Proceeds of stock soUl, 17,500 00 

Interest on stock to liOih June, 4,014 24 

Sixth iiall'year's interest, 15,455 07 

Proceeds of slock .sold, ll,2t7 50 



$ 207,151 95 



[ 1] 58 

Dr. fund account OF 



RECEIPTS. 
1850 Jan. 2, To intere^^t on $ 200,000 six per cent stock, to Jst of 

January, six months, S fi.OOO 01 

4, " on assnnifd debt, seventh half year. ].5,4.55 07 

July 2, Interest on $ 2ii;i,000 six i)er cent stock, to 30th 

June, SIX months, 0,000 00 

0, " " eiijhih half year, 15,4.35 07 

27, United States six per cent stock sold, viz, amount 

of stock, $ 10,000 00 
Premium. $ 1,400 
Less comnimission, 25 1.37."> 00 



Sept. 19, United Slates six percent stock sold, viz, amount 

of stock, f 10,000 00 

Premium, J.(illi> 00 



11,375 00 



11,000 00 



Dec. 23, Washinuton Monument, office furniture sold to 

ihat so(:iety, 50 71 

31, Interest on $ 180,000 six percent stock, to 3Ist 

Uecember, six months, 5,400 00 

$ 7 1 .33.T H5 



59 



[ 1 ] 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



185) Jan. 



July 



27 
Sppf. 1!»,' 
Dec. 2^, 

31, 



EXPENDITLHKS. 
By William W. Seatoii, ('liairtnaii Kxfciiiivp Committee, iii- 
tfresl oil stock to 1st Janiiarv, 
Si'Vfiith li.jll" year's iiiteresi, 
William W. ShmIoii, TreM^iirei-, interest on stock to "JOtli June, 
I'.i^ilitli half year's interest, 
I'roceeils of slock sold, 

Ho. do 

Furnilnre sold on aeroniit of pav of arrliitects, &c. 
Interest on stock to 31sl Ueceuiljer, l-iJU, 



Cr. 



$0,000 on 

J.'').44r. 07 

(>,IM)(I (III 

15,455 07 

]I,:{75 (10 

ll,(illll 00 

.50 71 

5,400 00 



$5 7 !,:«.') S5 



[ n 



60 



>^ 



C ^-S CT: T^ ■-; ~ C^ O) lO 
O — =:— I^=3P53t3< 

C IS t'> iC O = 3^ -.:= O 
C; — '— ^ L-? 1.0 -^> -.s — ■ 
c — . " ^ (M <7^_ ^'v^^ '-i 

^ ■:> -i — ^^!^: if 



c: re — — X o u- (>. c^ 

1^ "* tC Ci CO to CC 1.7 O 



cc cr.' X o 
L-: r; re (^ 



LO CO 

cc lO 

-no 



ox^t^^ — Ti-^. r-iX) 

1— uo X — cc re c: -r -I* 
(>i 1-1 ic (>j ^ ex, -!r i.o 






■■^ 






1— oo 1^ 

^ X t^ 



lo t^ 



•^ X r^ CO !.'■> c; en o — I 

Qt, i-^ S cc X C^, J: -T ^ 

ct re (7J 1-1 1> X X 



beg 



^ 



o X ,-?< o 
c ~ (^ e> 

p -. CD 

X C3 



^ l> 



O OJ X' X — O 3 o 

o X re X o le CO o 

X -^ re -^ t>{ c-> ro e-< 



c cc i>. tt cc (^ -r 

cc CO cTj T -r — 

C^ 1.0 ~ o 



1-1 CO 









■*^ o 

^2 



e 
bp 



t^ • " • = ' 




% - 


i t- 




n 


iZ '-^ t" ' 


tij 


- 


ji ^ >^. H >^ 







Q 1 all 


2 
« 


oj ^- 


'6 B ~ ^ -^ 
=5 -q J S U 




■T3 


r^ = 2 = =- 




"3 


.0 






rr -0 




"2 
"0 


0) 

-a 


= c = = 


• 


pi 
Ml 


t---~. S - a. 


3 


£3. 








r2 =-S 0^.= ^ 

^— ' — ^ ,/. OJ — ' — 

2: " < 2 = 2 = 


2 







"2 




C; = "= S 3j E ' = 


X' 


.•s -:; 


■c -3-a T=-a 


u; 3 = 


-: >, >, a. =L. - a 


>^ 


Zi 







z =-~i 


1:^ di cl, fc: >; w i. 


s 


fl-K 




U 





w 

H 
u 

J 

Q 

" S -J" 

u = « 









^" ■i 


o 






^ 




w ^ 












■ 5P 




i = 




6i.2 








<_i u 


C =3 


— 




tB 


tn - 






















= n SD 




- 


"3 


= 


= = 


2, — 


— 


*^ 73 


tf. a. 3 
























- 


r r3 


C2.r 


S • iJ 


:: V 


:l 


~ 3 


LJ = 




JJ -■ 


< 


.:;cc 


M- ^ 


:::; C << 



i.r ? =: -t: - 



61 



[ 1 



C O '^ '>) (^ o 

l" -T T". ~. ^ '"i 
i^ 71 i- Ot rl 



I— (^ r^ •r> •tr irj o» o (N ir: (^ r^ 
c X (TJ c^ 'T' --1 l~» ^ !>• r- rl 



4©= 



<>j X i.-^ c? s^ ic 'J- = C-) 1': i^ o 

Ol C^ >-i X' C-.> — I O -1 l^ r^ r-l 



m^ 



»*. O lO X o 

fc-) o i^ — ir: 



X — — ' o n 
1^ C; -^ '^.' 3^ 
X' lO 1>. 'T 



4" =■ 

l:'2 



c o 



^ 



Ui -^ tS ^ < Xi 



^ 0) 


Q 


i: J 


><; 


z:<= 6 


< 


re ^'K'^ 


rr, 


c: •- r« 


Lj 


Cj= s 


U 




r/J 



i'S-c.a =: 



J2 ^ 



C • kr. 



' ^ S O s 



< 

c o 



O 



5|- CcSo^^J. 






« ^ K — 



I re — 



[1 ] 



62 



From the foregoing exhibit it will be seen that the funds of the Institu- 
tion have been carefully husbanded, are now in a good condition, and that, 
though the cost of the building will exceed the first estimate, yet the origi- 
nal plan of saving a portion of the accrued interest to increase the capital, 
will, in due time be carried out. 

The Committee are of opinion, that an expenditure of twenty-five thou- 
sand dollars may be allowed from the annual income for defraying the ex- 
penses of the Institution, and for carrying on the several parts of the pro- 
gramme, during the present year, and they will hereafter introduce a 
resolution to that effect. 

Signed, A. D. BACIIE, 

J. A. PEARCE, 
JOS. G. TOTTEN, 
Committee. 



REPORT OF THE TREASURER OF THE INSTITUTION. 



Up to the 3d of July, 1850, the accounts of the Institution, were kept 
by the Chairman of the Executive Committee, who also acted as Treasurer. 
At that time a new system of accounts w\as adopted, according to which 
they were placed under the charge of the Secretary and the Executive 
committee, and I was appointed Treasurer. Agreeably to this arrangement, 
there was deposited to my credit with Corcoran & Riggs, for the current 
expenditure of the Institution, sums amounting to $49,880 78, of unex- 
jiended income of *^he preceding half year, as detailed and accounted for in 
the accompanying statements. 

Signed W. W. SEATON, Assistant, 

Acting as Treasurer. 

[The Treasurer's statement is included in the preceding detailed account,] 



No. III. 
REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMITTEE. 



The Building committee, in compliance with their appropriate duty, pre- 
sent the following report of the operations, expenditures, and progress on 
the building, during the year 1850. 

At the last session of the Board, resolutions were adopted, directing a 
survey of the whole building, and a report on the manner and faithfulness 
in which the building* conti-act had been executed, and the best plan for 
finishing the remainder of the building. 

It was found by this examination, that the exterior of the building had 
been well constructed, but that in order to reduce the cost, a plan had been 
adopted and materials employed for the interior, not proper for a building 
destined to contain property too valuable to be exposed to even a re- 



03 [1] 

mote danger of fire, and which, especially so fur as it shall consist of 
donations, will involve the implied condition that it shall be safely 
])reserved. 

In accordance with this result, a resolution was adopted, directing the 
interior of the centre building to be constructed in fire-proof, and that the 
time of finishino; it be extended until the accumulatino; interest would be 
suflicient to meet the adthtional expense. 

Accortling to the decision of the Architect, who, by the terms of the 
original contract, is the umpire between the Regents and the contractor, the 
latter is entitled to the sum of $18o,154 for completing the whole exterior 
of the building and the interior of the wings, ranges, and towers. When 
this much is finished, the present contract will terminate ; though the same 
contractor has agreed, should the Regents choose to accept his proposition, 
to finish the remainder of the interior in fire-proof, on the terms mentioned 
in the annexed report of the Architect. 

Agreeably to the estimates of Mr. Renwick, and the proposition of ]\Ir. 
Cameron for fire-proofiing, the whole cost of the building when finished, 
will be $284,000; but as the preliminary expenditure for premiums to 
architects, and other incidental charges connected with the work are not 
included in this estimate, the committee think it will be safer to state the 
whole cost at, say in round numbers, >iT^oOO,000. 

Since the commencement of the building, there has been expended on the 
grounds $3,747 51. The conmiittee, however, are pleased to be able to 
intbrm the Board, that but little more expenditure on this account will pro- 
bably be necessary beyond that which is requisite for the preservation of 
the trees and shrubs already planted. 

An appropriation has been made by Congress for the genci-al improve- 
ment of the public grounds, or, as they are commonly called the Mnll. Mr. 
Downing, the well known writer on Rural Architecture, at the request of 
the President, is now preparing a plan for converting the whole mall, 
including the Smithsonian grounds, into an extended landscape garden, to 
be traversed in difierent directions by gravelled walks and carriage drives, 
and planted with specimens, properly labelled, of all the varieties of trees 
and shrubs which will flourish in this clin:iate. 

In the opinion of the committee, the adoption of a general plan for the 
improvement of the public grounds is an object of much importance. A 
small appropriation, annually expended with reference to a well digested 
j)lan, would do more in a few years to produce lasting effects, than many 
times the same sum, expended in accordance with the peculiar fancy of each 
succeeding superintendent. 

If the ]ilan before mentioned be ado])ted, (and the committee hope that it 
will be,) the Smithsonian lot will form a part of an extended park, of which 
the Smithsonian l)uilding, by its site and picturesque style of architecture, 
will Ibrm a prominent and niost attractive feature. 

For the accommodation of those who attend the lectures, ])liink walks 
have' been put down from the doors of the building to the east and west 
extremities of the Smithsonian gi-o\mds. Much difficulty is still found, 
however, in getting access to tlie building during muddy walking ; but in 
the ojiinion of the committee, it belongs to the corporation of the city of 
Washington or other authority to construct and keep in good condition the 
approaches to the building which are beyond the Smithsonian possessions. 

A foot bridge across the canal at Tenth street, would greatly in- 



[ 1] 



64 



crease the facility of access to those who reside in the central portion of 
the city. The construction of such a bridge has been proposed to the city 
council, and your committee hope that the objects and operations of this 
Institution will commend the proposition to their favorable consideration. 

For a minute statement of the progress made in the building, and other 
details connected with the subjects noticed in the foregoing remarks, the 
committee refer to the report of the architect hereto appended. 

Respectfully submitted, 
Signed JEEFERSON DAVIS, 

HENRY W. BILLIARD. 
WALTER LENOX. 



* Washington, January 7, 1851. 

To the Honorable the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Gentlemen : By a resolution of the Honorable the Board of Regents, 
passed July 3, 1850, it was determined to change the plan originally 
adopted for the finish of the interior of the central building, which con- 
sisted of wooden columns and girders, and to substitute in its place a plan 
of fire-proofing. 

In accordance with the above resolution, the undersigned prepared and 
submitted to the honorable the committee charged with the examination of 
the building, four ditferent plans for fire-proofing, and the one preferred by 
him was adopted. 

This plan may be described as follows : The foundation will consist of a 
series of stone piers, connected by a system of inverted arches of brick, 
resting on base courses of long stone and laid in cement mortar ; the in- 
verted arches are arranged in such manner as to insure an equal pressure in 
all parts of the foundation, and thus to counteract, as far as possible, any 
unequal settlement of the earth upon which the building rests. The first 
story of the building containing the library, &c., will be constructed with 
piers and groined arches of brick, laid in cement mortar ; and the second 
story containing the museum, will be finished with cast iron columns and 
girders and a groined ceiling furred with wrought iron. The whole interior 
will be plastered on the above described brick and iron work, in the same 
ir.anner as was specified in the original contract, so as to complete the 
building in harmony with the original design. 

Though this change in construction will add to the expense of the build- 
ing, it is believed that the additional cost will be repaid by the permanence 
of the fire-proofing and the perfect security it will afford to the valuable 
collections which may hereafter be placed in this portion of the building. 

The above determination of the honorable the Board of Regents, also 
rendered it necessary that only such portions of the work embraced in the 
original contract for the building as would harmonize and become an inte- 
gral part of the fire-proofing, should be constructed by the present contractor 
and that the expense of the portions not necessary to effect this change 
should be deducted from the original contract price. 

It therefore became necessary to determine accurately the exact amount 
io be paid to the contractor under the above alteration in plan, and the un- 
•lersigned, by the direction of the honorable the Building committee, made 



65 [ 1 ] 

a pro rata estimate of all the work embraced in the original contract, which 
estimate was based upon the original contract price. 

From this estimate an exact decision was then made of the amount to be 
paid to the present contractor for the work, which he would be required to 
finish in conformity with the plan of fire-proofing, which was found to be 
^lSo,lo4. The following is an estimate of the cost of completing the whole 
building and its accessories, on the amended plan : 

Amount to be paid G. Cameron, for completing portions of 
building embraced in original contract, and necessary in 

amended plan. $18o,lo4 00 

Expense of fire-proofing central building, estimated at 44,000 00 

Plastering central building, 8,000 00 

Galleries to Library and Museum, 2,000 00 

Stairways to " " 425 00 

Furniture to " " 4,700 00 

Extra cartage, 200 00 

Materials, 1,000 00 

Heating Central Building, 3,o00 00 

Furnaces already put up, l,13o 63 

Architect, Superintendent and incidental expenses of ofl[ice, 16,500 00 

Grounds, 4,000 00 

Additional Furniture, 4,000 00 

274,614 63 
Add for contingencies, 9,385 37 

Making the total amount of f 284,000 00 

It is the belief of the undersigned, that the above amount of $284,000 
will, with proper economy, be sufiicient to defray the expense of completing 
the building, and that when thus finished, it will, for cheapness and dura- 
bility be unsurpassed by any building with which I am acquainted. 

By a resolution, passed at the same time as the one directing the above 
alteration in plan, the honorable the Board of Regents also decided at the 
suggestion of the Hon. Jeiferson Davis, " that the exterior of the building, 
" and the interior of the towers be completed in accordance with the plan, 
" and within the time specified in the contract." 

To carry out this decision, the operations on the building, during the 
last year, have principally been directed to the completion of the exterior of 
the building and towers. 

t It was the hope of the undersigned, that the towers would have been 
finished and roofed in before the winter. 

This expectation, has, however, not been realized, owing to the delay 
occasioned by the repairs in the Chesapeake and Ohio canal, which was not 
navigable for a period of nearly four months. 

The contractor was therefore uuable to convey his stone from the quarry, 
and very little work was done on the building during the months most 
favorable for working. 

The present condition of the building is as follows : The eastern and 
western wings are com})leted with the exception of some small items which 
will be left unfinished until a few weeks before the completion of the pre- 
sent contract. 

Mis.— 5. 



[ 1 ] m 

The central is roofed in and slated, and enclosed in such manner as to be 
perfectly protected from the weather. 

The principal front tower is carried up to a height of one hundred and 
twenty-two feet, and covered in temporarily for the winter. 

The stone and mason w^ork of the lower central front tower is completed, 
and the roof is on and slated. 

The campanile and north east corner towers are roofed in. 

The central south tower is carried up to a height of forty feet. 

The south east and south west corner towers are carried up to the height 
of the cornice of the cell of the main building. 

The contractor states, that all the stones necessary for the completion of 
the building are quarried. The greater portion of them are delivered at 
the building, and will be cut during the present winter. 

During the last year portions of the roads around the building have been 
graded and many trees and shrubs have been set out on the grounds. 

It is a source of satisfaction to the undersigned that the walls of the 
building have not as yet, shown any signs of settlement. When the various 
heights of the w^all and towers, ranging from twenty-six to one hundred 
and twenty-two feet are considered, this circumstance affords a satisfactory 
proof that the principles adopted in the construction of the building are 
correct, and that the care taken in calculating the weights and pressure of 
the different walls has not been uselessly expended, and that the construc- 
tion of these most important parts of the building has been well performed. 

The following is a statement of the amount expended in the building up 
to the 31st of December, 1850 : 
Amount expended on building up to December 1, 1847, was as 

then stated, 825,002 67 

Amount expended from December 1, 1847, to December 31, 

1848, 53,934 74 

Amount expended from December 31, 1848, to December 31, 

1849. 56,383 76 

The amount expended on the building during the 

the year 1850, has been as follows : 

Paid G. Cameron, contractor, $ 24,000 00 

Paid Architect, Superintendent, and incidental 

expenses of office, 2,459 42 

Miscellaneous, 1,868 05 

Grounds, improvement of, -1,616 46 

29,943 93 

Making total amount expended on building up to December 
31, 1849, -$165,265 10 

I remain, very respectfully. 

Your obedient servant, 

JAMES RENWICK, Jr., 
Architect Smithsonian Institution . 



67 [ 1 ] 



NO. IV. 

FIFTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



Wednesday, January 1, 1851. 

The Board of Regents met this day at 12 o'clock, noon, in accordance 
with notice previously given. 

On motion, Mr. Hawley was called to the Chair. 

The Secretary stated that a few days would he required to make up the 
accounts for the year just expired, and that a quorum of the Regents was 
not present 

Whereupon, on motion, 

The meeting adjourned to Tuesday, 7th instant, at 10 o'clock A. M. 

Tuesday, January 7, 1851. 

The Board of Regents met this day, at 10 o'clock A. M., according to 
adjournment. 

Present : Messrs. Bache, Davis, Fitch, Hawley, Hilliard, Lenox, Mason, 
Pearce, Rusk, and Totten. 

Mr. Hawley took the Chair, and the proceedings of the last meeting 
were read. 

The Secretary made a statement relative to the election of a Chancellor, 
the office being vacant by the elevation of Mr, Fillmore to the Presidency 
of the United States. 

On motion of Mr. Davis, it was 

Resolved, That the Board proceed to elect, by ballot, a Chancellor of 
the Smithsonian Institution, whose term of oifice shall continue until the 
4th day of March, 1853. 

Tellers having been appointed, the votes were counted, and the Honorable 
Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice of the United States, was declared unani- 
mously elected. 

The report of the Executive Committee for the year 1850, was then 
presented, and read by Mr. Bache. 

On motion, it was laid on the table, until the Treasurer's statement 
could be prepared. 

The reading of the Secretary's Annual Report, relative to the operations 
of the Institution, for the past year, was then commenced. 

An account was given of the several Memoirs presented during the past 
year, and copies of all that had been printed during the same time, were 
placed upon the table. 

The hour of adjournment having arrived, on motion, the Board adjourned 
to meet on Friday the 10th instant, at 10 o'clock A. M. 

Friday, January 10, 1851. 

The Board of Regents met this day at 10 o'clock. 

The Honorable Roger 15. Taney appeared and took the Chair, as Ciian- 
cellor of the Smithsonian Institution. 

The following members were present : Messrs. Bache, Davis, Fitch, 



[ 1 ] 68 

Hawley, Hilliard, Lenox, Mason, Pearce, Rush, Totten, and Mr. Seaton, 
Treasurer of the Institution. 

The Chancellor, on taking the Chair, expressed his thanks for ths honor 
conferred on him by his election ; his regret that on account of the meetings 
of the Supreme Court, he had not previously been able to attend the ses- 
sions of the Board, though he hoped in future to be able to do so ; also the 
interest he felt in the Institution, and his gratification with reference to its 
present condition. 

The proceedings of the last meeting were then read. 

The Building Committee presented their Annual Report, including a 
report from the Architect. It was on motion accepted, and ordered to 
form a part of the Regents' report to Congress. 

In connection with the report of the Building committee, Mr. Lenox 
made a statement relative to a proposition for the erection of a foot bridge 
over the canal at Ninth or Tenth street, at the expense of the corpora- 
tion of the City of Washington, for facilitating the approach to the Insti- 
tution. He also stated that Mr. Ellet, the Engineer, had offered to 
superintend, free of charge, the erection of a wire bridge at the place men- 
tioned, and expressed his belief that a bridge could be constructed during 
the present year. 

Mr. Seaton the Treasurer, presented a report of the monies placed to his 
credit on account of the Institution, and the manner in which they had 
l)een expended. At the request of Mr. Seaton, and on motion of Mr. Davis, 
the report was referred to the Executive Committee for examination. 

The reading of the Secretary's report was then proceeded with, including 
a statement relative to the Foreign distribution of the first volume of Smith- 
sonian Contributions, and the method of keeping the account of the ex- 
changes with foreign societies, also an account of the progress made in the 
operations relative to Meteorology. 

Specimens of the Barometers, Thermometers, Rain guages and Wind 
vanes prepared for the Smithsonian observers, were exhibited to the Board. 

The Board, on motion, then adjourned to meet on Saturday next, 18th 
instant, at 10 o'clock A. M. 

Saturday, January 18, 1851. 

The Board of Regent met this day at 10 o'clock, A. M. 

Present : Messrs. Bache, Colcock, Davis, Hilliard, Pearce, and Rush. 
The Chancellor being absent, Mr. Pearce was called to the Chair. 

The proceedings of the last meeting were read. 

Mr. Bache, on behalf of the Executive Committee, presented a detailed 
statement of all the expenditures from the beginning of the Institution to 
the end of the year 1850, classified according to the programme of accounts 
before given. 

The Secretary stated, that in obedience to the instructions contained in 
the resolutions of the Board adopted June 1, 1850, the following petition 
relative to funding f>150,000 of accrued interest had been drawn up for 
presentation to Congress ; but owing to the press of business of last session, 
and by the advice of the members of the Board belonging to the Senate and 
House of Representatives, it had not been presented up to the present time. 

Mr. Davis suggested that the petition be amended by inserting the words 



69 [ 1 ] 

" making in all a principal fund of ^715,000," at the close of the fourth 
paragraph which was agreed to. 

Amended, the petition reads as follows : 

To the Honorable, the Senate and House of Representatives, in Congress 

assembled : 

Gentlemen : The Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have 
directed me to transmit to your honorable body, the resolutions appended 
to this letter, and to solicit the passing of a law, in accordance therewith. 

It is known to your honorable body, that the original sum received into 
the United States Treasury from the Smithsonian bequest, was a little more 
than ^515,000, and that at the time of the passage of the act incorporating 
the Institution, ii?24'2,000 had accrued in interest, which sum or so raucli 
of it as might be deemed necessary, the Regents were authorized to appro- 
priate to a building. It is also knowni to your honorable body, that the act 
of incorporation directed that provision should be made for the establish- 
ment of a Library and Museum, together w^ith the erection of a building on 
a liberal scale to contain them. 

While the Regents in their plan of organization obeyed these instructions, 
they also by virtue of the power invested in them, and in conformity with 
the terms of the bequest, adopted additional plans for the more immediate 
promotion of the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men, by means 
of Researches, Publications, Lectures, &c. 

In order however, to carry out the several parts of this more extended plan, 
it was found absolutely necessary that the annual income of the Institution 
should be increased. To accomplish this, it w^as resolved, instead of ex- 
pending at once the J9>242,000 on a building, carefully to husband the same 
and to erect the building in the course of several years, in part out of the 
proceeds of the sum before mentioned, and in part out of such portions of 
the income of the original fund as could be spared from the ordinary opera- 
tions of the Institution. This scheme has been effectually carried out, and 
the Regents now ask to be allowed to place in the Treasury of the United 
States along side of the original bequest, and upon the same terms, never to 
be expended, the sum of ^150,000 of accrued interest, and to be allowed to 
add to this from time to time, such other sums as may come into their 
possession by donation or otherwise, until it, w4th the sums thus added shall 
amount to $200,000, making in all a principal fund of a little more than 
$715,000. 

After this deposit of $150,000, the Regents will still have sufficient money 
on hand to finish the whole exterior of the building, and such portions of 
the interior in addition to those now completed, as may be wanted for 
several years to come, they then propose gradually to finish the remainder 
in such portions as may be wanted out of the anrmal accruing interest. 

The sole object of the request is the permanent investment and [)eipetual 
security of the accumulated fund, and when your honorable body is assured 
that the organization and operation of the Institution have received the ap- 
probation of the wise and good, not only in this country, but in every part 
of the world w'here literature and science are cultivated, the undersigned 
trusts that the request will be granted. 

And your petitioner will ever pray, &c. 

Signed JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary 

Of the Synithsnnian Institidion. 



[1] 



70 



RESOLUTIONS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS 



Of the Smithsojiian Institution, adopted at their meeting of June 1, 1850, 
and appended to the foregoing petition. 

Resolved, That it is expedient to enlarge the permanent fund of the Insti- 
tution, by the investment of such sums not exceeding ^200,000 as may 
have been, or shall be received for accrued interest or otherwise, in addition 
to the principal sum of the Smithsonian bequest, augmenting the principal 
sum to that amount, and that application be made to Congress to receive 
such sums not exceeding $200,000 as may have been or shall be received 
for accrued interest or otherwise into the United States Treasury upon the 
same terms on which the original bequest has been received. 

Resolved, That the Secretary be requested to communicate a copy of 
this resolution to Congress, and to request that provision be made by law 
in accordance therewith. 

The Secretary also brought before the Board, the subject of the remain- 
der of the Smithsonian bequest, left as the principal of an annuity payable 
to Madame de la Batut, mother of the nephew of James Smithson. 

Mr. Rush gave an account of this annuity and stated that he had left the 
business in the hands of attornies, to whom he had written in 1846. A copy 
of this correspondence was read, and Mr. Rush was requested to commu- 
nicate with the above mentioned persons relative to this business. 

The reading of the Secretary's report was then continued, including 
Professor Jewett's report on the Library, illustrated by specimens of a new 
plan of stereotyping catalogues of libraries by separate titles. 

On motion the Board adjourned to meet on Saturday 25th instant at 10 
o'clock A. M. 

Saturday, January 25, 1851. 

The Board of Regents met this day at 10 o'clock A. M. 

Present : Messrs. Davis, Fitch, Lenox, Mason, Pearce, and Taney. 

The Chancellor occupied the Chair. 

The proceedings of the last meeting were read. 

The reading of the Secretary's report was then continued, including the 
report of Professor Baird on the Museum. 
On motion of Mr. Davis, it was 

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board be presented to Mr. Alexander 
Culbertson for the liberal aid rendered by him in procuring specimens of 
Natural History for the Institution ; also, to Messrs. Edward T. Denig, 
Ferdinand Culbertson, and the other gentlemen of the American Fur com- 
pany mentioned in Professor Baird's report for similar services. 

The concluding portion of the Secretary's report was then read, giving 
an account of the Lectures which had been delivered, and other miscellane- 
ous operations. The Secretary then gave an account of some experiments 
made with the Smithsonian apparatus by Mr. Espy during the past year, 
and the connection which has existed between this gentleman and the In- 
stitution. An appropriation has been made for several years past by Con- 
gress for Meteorology, out of which Mr. Espy has been paid. The 
appropriation was under the direction of the Secretary of the Navy w^ho, 
in 1848, directed Mr. Espy to co-operate in his labors with the Smithso- 
nian Institution. 

Mr. Lenox presented a communication from Mr. Seaton recommending 



71 [ 1 ] 

the placing of a bell in one of the towers of the Smithsonian building and 
stating that a very valuable town clock could probably be obtained from 
the Treasury Department. 

On motion of Mr. Fitch, it was 

Resolved, That Mr. Lenox be appointed a committee to inquire into and 
report upon this proposition. 

The Board then adjourned to meet again at the call of the Secretary. 

Thursday, February 27, 1851. 

The Board of Regents met this evening at 6 o'clock in the ante-room of 
the Senate Chamber. 

Present : Messrs. Bache, Colcock, Davis, Fitch, Lenox, Mason, Pearce 
and Totten. 

In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Pearce was called to the Chair. 

The proceedings of the last meeting were read. 

Mr. Bache, from the Executive Committee, offered the following reso- 
lution which was adopted : 

Resolved, That during the year 18-51, the sum of twenty-five thousand 
dollars be and is hereby appropriated to be expended under the dii-ection of 
the Secretary, and with the advice of the Executive Committee for the 
expenses of the Institution, and to carry out the several parts of the pro- 
gramme of organization. 

On motion of Mr. Mason, it was 

Resolved, That the report of the Secretary and of the Executive- Com- 
mittee be adopted and form parts of the report of the Regents to Congress. 
On motion of Mr. Colcock, it was 

Resolved, That the Chancellor and Secretary be authorized to make the 
annual report of the Regents to Congress. 

A bill was presented to the Board from W. Fischer for stationery pur- 
chased in 1847 and 1848, on account of the Executive and Building com- 
mittee, prior to the present system of keeping accounts. 

On motion of Mr. Fitch, it was referred to the Executive Committee for 
examination and if found correct, for payment. 

The Secretary called attention to the statement in the report of the 
Executive Committee, that in the examination and re-arrangement of the 
accounts of the Institution, there had been found a few cases in which pay- 
ment had been made in accordance with the spirit of the resolutions of the 
Board, but which could be referred to no special appropriation. 
On motion of Mr. Fitch, it was 

Resolved, That these accounts be referred to the Executive Committee 
for examination, and if deemed correct, for approval. 

The Secretary informed the Board that it was necessary to publish a 
new edition of the programme of organization and suggested the propriety 
of making a few verbal alterations in the text, and in the sentence begin- 
ning as follows : 

" Rewards [consisting of money, medals, &c., offered for original me- 
moirs."] 

Of striking out the words included in brackets, which was agreed to. 
On motion of Mr. Mason, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to employ an accountant at 
an annual salary of two hundred dollars, and to assign his duties, and that 



[1 ] 



72 



there be paid to Wm. B. Randolph, two hundred dollars for the arrange- 
ment of the accounts to date as reported. 
On motion of Mr. Bache, it was 

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to appoint an agent abroad 
to conduct the exchanges of the Institution, with a salary not to exceed 
one hundred and fifty dollars per annum. 

Mr. DaAds submitted the following resolution, which was adopted : 

Resolved, That the Executive Committee be requested to inquire into 
the expediency of providing buildings for the residences of the officers of 
the Institution on the Smithsonian grounds, or other convenient location, if 
they deem expedient to report plans and estimates for such buildings to the 
Board at their next meeting. 

Mr Lenox, to whom was referred the subject of procuring a clock and 
bell for the Institution, reported that the use of a clock could be obtained 
free of expense to the Institution, provided a bell of a large size could be 
arranged in connection with it, in one of the towers of the Smithsonian 
building ; also, that he thought it probable that the corporation of the 
city of Washington would defray one half of the cost of such a bell, pro- 
vided that the Institution would pay the other. 

Mr. Mason then offered the following resolution, which was agreed to. 

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to purchase a bell, to be 
placed in one of the towers of the building to be attached to a clock, pro- 
vided that the purchase be made in association with the authorities of the 
city of Washington, and that the size and tone of the bell be approved of 
by the Executive Committee and the said authorities, the sum to be paid 
on the part of this Institution, not to exceed five hundred dollars. 

The plan of Mr. Downing for the improvement of the public mall, in- 
cluding: the crrounds of the Smithsonian Institution was exhibited to the 
Board. 

On motion, the Board then adjourned sine die. 



APPENDIX No. I. 



FOREIGJV DISTRIBUTION, OF VOL. L, OF SMITHS Om^jY 
COJTTRIBUTIOJVS TO KJVOWLEDGE. 

SWEDEN. 

Lund — The University Library. 

Stockholm — *Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien. (Royal Swedish 
Academy of Science.) 
*Vitterhets Historic och Antiquitets Akademien. 
Upsala — *Svenska Akademien. (Swedish Academy.) 

*The University Library. 

NORWAY. 

Bergen — Bergen's Museum. 
Christiania — Library of the University. 



73 [ 1 ] 

DENMARK. 

Copenhagen — Kongelige Nordiske Oldskrift Selskab. (Royal Society of 
Northern Antiquarians.) 
Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab. (Royal Danish 

Society of Science.) 
Royal Library. 

RUSSIA. 

DoRPAT — The Imperial Observatory. 

Moscow — Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes. 

St. Petersburg — *Acadeinie Imperiale des Sciences. 

*Imperial Public Library. 

Imperial Mining department. 
PuLKowA — *The Imperial Observatory. 

HOLLAND. 

Amsterdam — *Hollandsche Instituut der Wetenschappen, Letterkunde en 
schoone Kunsten. ( Holland Institute of Sciences, Litera- 
ture and the Fine Arts. ) 

Haarlem — Hollandsche Maatschappij der Wetenschappen. (Holland 
Society of Sciences. ) 

Leyden — Academic des Sciences. 

Rotterdam — *Bataafsch Genootschap der praefondervindelyke Wysbe- 
geerte. ( Batavian Society of Experimental Philosophy. ) 

Utrecht — *Academia Rheno-Trajectina. 

Vlissingen — *(Flushing,) Zeeuwsche Genootschap der Wetenschappen. 
(Zealand Society of Sciences.) 

AUSTRIA, GERMANY AND PRUSSIA. 

Berlin — *Konigliche Akademie der Wissenschaften. (Royal Academy 
of Sciences.) 

*Royal Library. 
Bonn — University Library. 
Bremen — *City Library. 

Breslau — *Academia Leopoldina Carolina natural coriosorum. 
Dresden — *Royal Public Library. 
Erlangen — University Library. 
Frankfurt am Main — Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 

(Senckenberg Society.) 
Freiberg — Royal Mining Academy. 
Freiburg — *University Library. 
GiESSEN — University Library. 
Halle — University Library. 
Hamburg — Public City Library. 
Heidelberg — University Library. 
Jena — *University Library. * 

Karlsruhe — *Gran(l Ducal Library. 
Kcenigsbkrg — *University Library. 
Leipzig — City Library. 

University Library. 

Kcinigliche Siichsische Gesellschaft. 

Fijrstliche Jablonowski 'sche Gesellschaft. 



[1] 



74 



Marburg — Marburgische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 

University Library. 
Munich — *Konig]. Baierische Akademie der Wissenschaften. (Royal Ba- 
varian Academy of Sciences.) 

Royal Court and City Library. 
Prague — *University Library. 

Konigl. Bohmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. (Royal 
Bohemian Society of Sciences.) 

*Bohmisches Museum. 
Pesth — *University Library. 

*Ungarische Gelehrte Gesellschaft. 
Stuttgart — Royal Public Library. 
TiiBiNGEN — *University Library. 
Vienna — *K. K. Akademie der Orientalischen Sprachen. 

*Lnperial Library. 

*University Library. 

*Kaiserliche Akademie der "Wissenschaften. 
WiiRZBURG — *University Library. 

BELGIUM. 
Bruxelles — Academic Royale des Sciences, des Belles Lettres et des 
Beaux Arts. 

Royal Observatory. 
Ghent — University Library. 
Bruges — *Societe des Sciences Naturelles. 
Liege — Societe Royale des Sciences. 
Lou VAIN — *Academia Lovaniensis. 

FRANCE. 

Angers — *Societe d'Agriculture, Sciences et Arts 
Bordeaux — *Academie des Sciences, Belles Lettres et Arts. 
Caen — *Academie des Sciences, Arts et Belles Lettres. 

*Societe Linneenne de Normandie. 
Dijon — *Academie des Sciences, Arts et Belles Lettres. 
Lille — *Societe des Sciences, de I'Agriculture et des Arts. 
Lyon — *Societe d'Agriculture, Histoire Naturale, et Arts Utiles. 
Marseille — *Academie des Sciences, Lettres et Arts. 
MoNTPELLiER — *'Societe Archeologique. 
Paris — *L'Institut de France. 

*Societe des Antiquaires. 

* " Asiatique. 

* " de Geographic. 

* " Geologique. 

* " Fran<jaise de Statistique Universelle. 

* " Philomatique. 

* " de I'Ecole des Chartes. 
^National Library. 

*Library of the Jardin des Plants. 
*L'Institut Historique. 
*L'Eco]e des Mines. 
*Societe Ethnologique. 
*Library of the City of Paris. 
Strasbourg — *Societe des Sciences, Agriculture et Arts. 
*Academie des Sciences Naturelles. 



75 [ 1 ] 

SWITZERLAND. 

Basle — Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 

Antiquarische Gesellschaft. 
Berne — Schweizerische Gesellschaft fiir die Gesammten Naturwissen- 

schaften. 
Geneva — Societe de Physique et d' Histoire Naturelle. 
Neuchatel — Societe des sciences Naturelles. 
Zurich — *Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 

Antiquarische Gesellschaft. 

ITALY. 

Bologna — *Instituto delle Scienze ed Arti Liberati. 
Catania — *Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali. 
Florence — *Accademia del Cimento. 

*Magliabecchian Library. 
Lucca — *Reale Accademia Lucchese di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. 
Milan — *Imperiale Regio Instituto del Regno Lombardo-Veeto. 
MoDENA — *Societa Italiana delle Scienze. 
Naples — *Reale Accademia delle Scienze, e Belle Lettere. 
Padua — *Accademia di Scienze, Lettere, ed Arti. 
Pisa — ^University Library. 
Palermo — *Royal Academy of Sciences. 
Rome — * Accademia Romana di Archeologia. 

*Library of the Vatican. 

*Accademia dei Lincei. 
Turin — *Accademia Reale delle Scienze. 
Venice — *Library of San Marco. 

PORTUGAL. 

Lisbon — *Academia Real dos Sciencias. 

SPAIN. 

Madrid — *Real Academia Espanola. 

* " " de la Historia. 

*Academia de los Sciencias Naturales. 

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. 

Belfast — *Natural History and Philosophical Society. 
Cambridge — Cambridge Philosophical Society. 

*University Library. 
Cornwall — *Royal Geological Society. 
Dublin — Dublin University Philosophical Society. 

Royal Irish Academy. 

*Library of Trinity College. 
Edinburg — *Royal Society. 

Royal Scottish Society of Arts. 

Royal Observatory. 

*Library of Faculty of Advocates. 

Society of Antiquaries of Scotland. 
Glasgow — *University Library. 
Greenwich — Royal Observatory. 



[ 1 ] 76 

London — Royal Society. 

Royal Astronomical Society. 

Royal Asiatic Society. 

Royal Geographical Society. 

*Royal Institution. 

*Scciety of Antiquaries. 

*Society for Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Com- 
merce. 

Linna^an Society. 

Geological Society. 

*Institution of Civil Engineers. 

*Zoological Society. 

Etomological Society. 

Statistical Society. 

Microscopical Society. 

*Ethnological Society. 

British Archseological Society. 

*British Museum. 

*Library of House of Commons. 

^Horticultural Society. 

Chemical Society. 

Archaeoloo-ical Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. 

*Board of Admiralty. 
Leeds — *Philosophical and Literary Society. 
Manchester — *Literary and Philosophical Society. 
Oxford — *Bodleian Library. 

Radcliffe Observatory. 
St Andrews — *Library of the University. 

GREECE. 

Athens — *University Library. 

TURKEY. 
Constantinople — *Library of the Sultan. 

AFRICA. 
Grand Cairo — *The Egyptian Society. 

ASIA. 

Allahabad — *Mission College. 

Batavia — *Bataviaasche Genootschap van Konsten en Wetenschappen. 

Bombay — *Literary Society. 

^Geographical Society. 
Ceylon — *Asiatic Society. 
Hong Kong — *Asiatic Society of China. 
Madras — Literary Society. 
Manilla — *Royal Economical Society of the Philippine Islands. 

WEST INDIES AND SOUTH AMERICA. 

Bogota — *Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais. 
Caracas — *Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais. 
Habana — *Real Sociedad Economica. 
Rio Janerio — *Imperial Brazilian Historical Society. 



77 [ 1 ] 

These Institutions may be summed up, as follows : 

Sweden, -- 5 

Norway, - - 2 

Denmark, - o 

Russia, - - G 

Holland, - 6 

Austria Germany, and Prussia,- - 37 

Belgium, -- 6 

France, -- 2o 

Switzerland, - 7 

Italy, 16 

Portugal, - - 1 

Spain, - - o 

Great Britain and Ireland, 41 

Greece, - 1 

Turkey, 1 

Africa, 1 

Asia, 8 

West Indies and South America, 4 

Total 173 

The returns received in exchange from these Institutions, up to the 1st 
of January 1851, are as follows. 

Folio and quarto Volumes,- 132 

Octavo Volumes, — - - --- 138 

Parts of volumes and tracts in quarto and octavo, 608 

Total 878 

From some of the above mentioned Institutions, no returns have yet been 
received. These will be found marked with an asterisk. From many so 
marked, however, an exchange is shortly expected, while from others, 
such as Libraries, w^hich publish no transactions, nothing can be looked 
for. Even here, however, duplicate volumes, as has already happened in 
several instances, will occasionally be transmitted. Many of the Universi- 
ties on the continent have forwarded the theses of their graduates, and 
other miscellanea. It must also be observed, that the period at which it 
was found possible conveniently to transmit volume I. of vSmithsonian 
Contributions to France, Italy, Spain, and Portugal, has been so recent as 
to render the reception of any returns up to the present date impossible. 

It may be proper to add, that suitable occasions of forwarding to some 
of the above mentioned societies, have not yet occurred, although shortly 
expected. This is the case in regard to some of the Asiatic societies, the 
Egyptian society of Grand Cairo, and those of the West Indies and South 
America. 



[1] 



78 



APPENDIX No II. 



New York, December 2, 1850. 

My Dear Sir: The ship " Brewster" has just arrived from the Pacific, 
bringing six monuments in addition to those which I shipped via. San Juan 
de Nicaragua, for the Institution, and which I have directed to be imme- 
diately forwarded to Washington. I shall avail myself of the opportunity 
afforded by my proposed visit to the Capital in January next, to number 
and catalogue both these and the other Central American relics which I 
have already sent. In the meantime, I am unable to refer to the indi- 
vidual figures and objects in an intelligible manner. I may nevertheless 
observe that the finer specimens of Aboriginal Art, which I discovered in 
Nicaragua, were of too large size to be removed under present circum- 
stances. Should the steamers which have been sent out succeed in ascend- 
ing the San Juan, and entering lake Nicaragua, some of the monuments 
which exist on the islands in that lake, might be obtained without much 
difiSculty, and would constitute very interesting and important features in 
the proposed Smithsonian collection of American antiquities. Two of the 
statues which I have sent to the Institution, one from the island of Zapa- 
tero, in lake Nicaragua, w^here once existed one of the most imposing 
aboriginal temples of the country. Here, amongst the ruins of the teocalli 
or high places of the former inhabitants, I found fifteen entire statues, be- 
sides the fragments of many others ; several broken sacrificial stones, &c. 
I was unable to remove but two of the smallest and rudest, but I have ac- 
curate drawings of all. The largest statue amongst those which I have 
sent you, and which is carved in black basalt, was obtained from the 
island of Momotombita, in lake Managua, where there seems also to have 
been a temple or sacred place. The figure with the sphynx like head dress 
is also from the same locality, whence a great number of sculptures have 
been taken at various times, and planted at the corners of the streets in the 
towns, or sent abroad. Within the recollection of persons now living, 
there were some twenty or thirty of these figures existing at one place on 
the island, arranged in the form of a square, the faces looking inward. 
One or two of the other statues were dug up for me by the Indians of the 
Pueblo of Subtiaba near Leon, having been buried for a great number of 
years, and the locality carefully concealed. They are somewhat mutilated, 
showing in their broken features, the zeal of the priests who followed in the 
armies of Gil Gonzalez de Avila and Cordova. A small group of these 
monuments exists in the depths of the forest midway between Leon and 
the Pacific, which is still secretly visited by the Indians, for the perform- 
ance of dances and other rites pertaining to their primitive religion. 

These monuments, but particularly those which exist in and around lake 
Nicaragua, and which, as works of art, are superior to those found else- 
where, are of high value in an archreological point of view, because they 
furnish conclusive collateral evidence of the truth of the statement of 
Oviedo, (who visited Nicaragua in 1529,) that a large part of the inhabi- 
tants of the country were Mexicans, i. e. of the same stock with the 
Aztecs and the other nations inhabiting the valley of Anahuac. I was 



79 [ 1 ] 

able at the first glance, to recognize in some of these statues, the re- 
presentations of several of the gods of the Mexican Pantheon. Among 
these was Tlalocthe, God of Rain, and the second of the Aztec Triad, 
corresponding in his essential attributes with Vishun of the Hindu 
Mythology. 

The small figure resembling some animal couchant was, until very 
recently, preserved on a remarkable rock on the side of the volcano of 
Omatepec, and regarded with high veneration by the Inchans. It was only 
after many years of search that the priests were able to find and remove it. 
The granitic vase, distinguished by the ornaments, called grecques by 
Humboldt, (and which characterize the ruins at Mitla in Mexico,) was dug 
up near the city of Nicaragua. The spot had been a cemetery of the 
ancient inhabitants. Another relic of the same material, and with a 
like style of ornament, accompanies the vase, and was found in the same 
neighborhood. It seems to have been designed as a pedestal for a small 
statue. 

I have several of the funereal vases of the ancient inhabitants, in which 
the bones and ashes of the dead were packed after the decomposition of 
the flesh or after burning. It is a singular fact that all these vases were 
modelled after the human skull. I will send these as soon as the drawings 
of them are finished. 

I may mention that the largest and most elaborate monuments which 
fell under my notice in Nicaragua, exist in the little island of Pensacola, 
near the base of the extinct volcano of Momobacho. They weigh a num- 
ber of tons each, and are distinguished as being wrought from blocks of 
sand stone, a material which is not found on the islancl, nor, so far as I 
could learn, within many miles of it, on the main land. 

I shall be happy to contribute whatever monuments of the past, or relics 
of aboriginal art which I possess, or may hereafter collect, towards forming 
a National Archaeological Museum, under the single stipulation that they 
shall have a specific place assigned them in the Institution, and that my 
classification when finally made, shall not be disturbed. You know that 
I have long cherished the plan of forming a grand collection, which should 
illustrate the arts of the aboriginies of every part of the continent, but 
more particularly of our own country. Small and detached collections, 
such as individuals may be able to form, can serve no good purpose in the 
way of comparison and mutual illustration, and are always liable to be 
destroyed by accident, or dispersed, and, piece by piece, irretrievably lost, 
and I am sure, when it comes to be known that a place has been set apart 
for these things in the Smithsonian Institution, most persons possessing 
collections would not hesitate to surrender them to augment the central 
stock. And if our public agents in foreign countries, our army and naval 
officers in frontier or foreign service, and our traders generally residing 
abroad, were properly informed that a collection of this kind was going on, 
and that the necessary cost of procuring and transmitting monuments or 
relics of interest would be reimbursed them ; if this were done, I feel sure 
that an American Archaeological Museum, worthy of our age and country, 
would soon grow up. It is a fact not at all creditable to us, that we have 
no public collection of this kind worthy to be mentioned, in the United 
States, while some of the museums of Europe are really rich in relics of 
aboriginal American art. M. de Longperier, conservateur des Antiquites 
of the Louvre, has recently published a catalogue of American antiquities, 



[ 1 ] 80 

contained in that museum, extending over one hundred and thirty octavo 
pages, and relating to nearly a thousand specimens, some of them of great 
interest and value. The fact carries its own application with it. Craving 
your indulgence for this rambling letter, 

I am sir, your obedient servant, 

E. GEO. SQUIER. 
Professor Joseph Henry, Secretary 

Smithsonian Institution, Washington. 



APPENDIX— No. III. 



REPORT OF COjMMISSIOMERS TO EXAMINE THE PLAJV 
FOR FORMIKG A GENERAL STEREOTYPE CATALOGUE 
OF PUBLIC LIBRARIES IJY THE UJYITED STATES. 

COPY OF A LETTER ADDRESSED SEVERALLY TO 

Hon. Edward Everett, of Cambridge, 

Charles Folsom, Esq., Librarian of the Boston Atheneeum, 

George Livermore, Esq., of Boston, 

Joseph G. Cogswell, Esq., Superintendent of the Astor Library, N. York, 

S. F. Haven, Esq., Librarian of the American Antiquarian Society, and 

Rev. Edward E. Hale, of Worcester. 

Smithsonian Institution, 

Aiigtist 16, 1850. 

Dear Sir : The Smithsonian Institution desirous of facilitating research 
in literature and science and of thus aiding in the increase and diffusion of 
knowledge, has resolved to form a general catalogue of the various libra- 
ries in the United States, and I submit to you for examination the plans 
proposed by Professor Jewett, Librarian of the Institution, for accom- 
plishing this object. 

First, A plan for stereotyping catalogues of libraries by separate titles 
in a uniform style. 

Second, A set of general rules to be recommended for adoption by the 
different libraries of the United States in the preparation of their cata- 
logues. 

Professor Jewett will present to you his plans in person, and I beg leave 
in behalf of the Executive Committee of the Institution to request that 
you w^ill give this subject that attention W'hich its importance demands and 
report 

First — The practicability of the plan presented. 

Second — On the propriety of adopting the rules proposed. 

You will also confer a favor on the Institution by giving any sugges- 
tions with regard to the general proposition of forming a catalogue of all 
the libraries in this country. 

I remain respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary, 

Smithsonian Institution. 



81 [ 1 ] 



REPORT OF THE COMMISSIONERS UPON THE GENERAL 

CATALOGUE. 



The undersigned were requested in the month of August last, by a letter 
from Professor Henry, written on behalf of the Executive Committee of 
the Smithsonian Institution, to take into consideration the subject of a Ge- 
neral Catalogue of the public libraries of the United States, proposed to be 
formed under the auspices of the saiti Institution, and more especially the 
plan proposed by Professor Jewett, Librarian of the Institution, tor accom- 
plishing that object. 

Having consented to act as Commissioners for the above named purpose, 
the subscribers had several interviews with Professor Jewett, in the months 
of September and October, at which he submitted to them 

1. A plan for stereotyping catalogues of libraries by separate movable 
titles of the books contained in them, and 

2. A set of general rules to be recommended for adoption by the ditferent 
public libraries in the United States, in the preparation of their cata- 
logues. 

Professor .Jewett's plan for stereotyping titles on separate plates is un- 
folded at considerable length, in a paper read by him, in the month of 
August last, at the annual meeting of the American Association for- the 
Advancement of Science, held at New Haven. This paper was published 
in the Boston Traveller for the 26th of September. It is herewith sub- 
joined, and the undersigned request that it may be considered as a part 
of their report.* 

For a full view of the advantages, both economical and literary, anti- 
cipated from the adoption of Professor Jewett's plan, the undersigned 
would refer to the valuable and interesting paper just named. They will 
allude briefly to a portion of these advantages. 

The most important of them, perhaps, will be the economy of time, 
labor, and expense, required for the preparation of a new edition of a cata- 
logue, to include the books added since a former edition was published. 
On Professor Jewett's plan, when the catalogue of a library is published, 
it will be necessary to strike off only so many copies, as are needed for 
present use. When the additions to the library have become so conside- 
rable as to make another edition of the catalogue desirable, or in lieu 
thei'eof, a. supplementary catalogue, (always an unsatisfactory and embar- 
rassing appenchige,) the new titles only will be stereotyped and inserted in 
their proper places among the former titles, a'll the titles being on mo- 
vable plates. The pages of the new edition will thus be made up with 
convenience, and every book in the library will stand in its proper place 
in the catalogue. This process will be repeated as often as the growth of 
the librai-y may make it necessary. 

In this way, not only will the plates used in a former edition, be availa- 
ble for each subsequent edition, but when the plan is fairly and extensively 
in operation, most of the titles of books added to any given library of 

* This paper is subslaiitially re-priiited iu the repoil ofllm Librarian fur the prt;seiit year. 

Mis.-6. 



[1] 



82 



vrhose catalogue a new edition is required, will, in the meantime, have been 
cast for some other catalogue, and thus occasion no new charge for any 
subsequent use, as far as the expense of casting the plates is concerned. 
The infant state and the prospective rapid increase of the public libraries 
in the United States, as well as the frequent founding of new libraries, give 
great interest to this feature of the plan, 

Another advantage of the proposed plan would be of the following na.- 
ture : The libraries in any country, (to some extent, indeed in all coun-^ 
tries,) consist partly of the same books. Professor Jewett states, that jn 
the catalogues of the public libraries of the United States, possessed by 
the Smithsonian Institution, there are embraced at least four hundred and 
fifty thousand titles. He estimates, however, after a laborious comparison, 
that among these there will not be found more than one hundred and fifty 
thousand different titles. It follows, that, if the plan proposed had been 
applied to the publication of these catalogues, two thirds of the expense 
of printing them, as far as the cost of plates is concerned, would have 
been saved by incurring the extra expense of stereotyping the remaining 
third according to this plan. The economy to each particular library, in 
the expense of plates for its catalogue, will be in proportion to the number 
of books which it may contain in common with any other library, whose 
catalogue has been already stereotyped on this plan. The title of the 
same book, in the same edition, will of course be cast but once, and will 
thenceforward serve for the catalogue of every library possessing that 
book, which may enter info the arrangement. 

A third advantage resulting from this plan will be the facility with 
which a classed catalogue, either of a whole library or any department of 
it, might be furnished at short notice, without the expense of writing out 
the titles or of casting new plates, but by the simple judication of the se- 
lected titles, in' the margin of a printed alphabetical catalogue. 

Finally, the plan of necessity, requires, that the titles of the books in the 
libraries, included in the arrangement, should be given on uniform princi- 
ples and according to fixed rules ; an object of no small importance to 
those who consult them. 

These and other incidental advantages, which would result from the 
adoption of his plan of separate stereotype plates for the titles of books in 
public libraries, are pointed out by Professor Jewett in the memoir above 
referred to, and the undersigned are of opinion that he has not overrated 
their importance. In proportion as the plan is concurred in by the public 
institutions and individuals possessing valuable collections of books, the 
preparation of a general catalogue of all the libraries in the country be- 
comes practicable, accompanied by references from which it would appear 
in what library or libraries any particular book is contained. 

The undersigned became satisfied, in the course of their conferences 
with Professor Jewett, that the plan in all its parts is practicable. In con- 
nection with the explanation of its mechanical execution, specimens of 
stereotype plates of separate titles, made up into pages, were submitted to 
them in common type metal, in electrotype, and in a newly invented com- 
position, the use of which, it is thought by its inventor, would be at- 
tended with great economy in the cost of plates. The undersigned ex- 
amined these specimens with much gratification and interest, but they did 
not feel themselves competent from their limited opportunities of enquiry, 
nor did they regard it as falling within their province, to form an opinon 



83 [ 1 ] 

on the comparative merits of these processes. They feel satisfied that no 
important mechanical difficulty is to be apprehended in carrying the plan 
into full effect. 

A majority of the undersigned devoted themselves for several successive 
meetings to the careiul consideration of the set of rules submitted to them 
by Professor Jewett, for the uniform preparation of the titles of books. 
This is a subject which has of late received much attention from biblio- 
graphers, and is of great importance in the formation of the catalogues of 
public libraries. Professor Jewett's rules combine the results of the ex- 
perience of those who have given their attention to the subject in the prin- 
cipal libraries ol Europe, especially of the British Museum, together with 
the fruits of his own experience and study. These rules appeared to the 
undersigned to be drawn up with judgment and care. A few amendments 
were recommended by the undersigned, and a few additions proposed, but 
they are prepared to signify their approval of the system substantially as 
submitted to them. It is contained, as amended by the undersigned, in 
conference with Professor Jewett, in the paper marked B,* which they beg 
leave also to make a part of their report. 

In order that a beginning may be made in the execution of the plan, 
under circumstances highly favorable to its success, the undersigned take 
the liberty of suggesting, that it would be advisable for the Regents of the 
Smitlisonian Institution to obtain the requisite authority to prepare a 
catalogue of the library of Congress on the above described plan. A cata- 
logue of this library is now very much wanted. Originally constructed on 
a defective plan, and continued by the publication of a large number of 
supplements, it is now almost useless ; and as the library increases, it be- 
comes daily more so. The preparation of an alphabetieal catalogue has 
in this way become a matter of absolute necessity for the library itself; 
while it affords the best opportunity for commencing an arrangement by 
which the various libraries of the country will be brought into a mutually 
beneficial connexion with each other, on the plan proposed by Professor 
Jewett. 

The undersigned consider the permanent superintendence of this plan to 
be an object entirely within the province of the Smithsonian Institution. 
They are satisfied that it will tend both to the increase and the ditfusion 
of knowledge, and they therefore hope that the sanction of the Regents 
and of Congress will be given to the undertaking. 

(Signed,) EDWARD EVERETT, 

JOSEPH G. COGSWELL. 
CHARLES FOLSOM, 
SAMUEL F. HAVEN, 
EDWARD E. HALE, 
GEORGE LIVERMORE. 
Boston, 26th October, 1850. 

" Tliose rubs, with copious explanations and examples, will soon be published in a pam- 
phlet form. It was found impossible to prepare them to be printed with the present report. 



[ 1 ] 



APPENDIX — No. IV. 



JOURXJL OF JIjY EXPEDITIOJY TO THE MAUVAISES 
TERRES JLYD THE UPPER MISSOURI /A" 1850; 

BY THADDEUS A. CULEERTSON. 

[As already mentioned, Mr. Culbertson Avent from St. Louis to St. Josephs in a steamboat. 
He there, with his brother, Alexander Culbertson, Esq., took a carriage, and accompanied 
by some attendants proceeded to Fort Pierre, along the eastern bank of the Missouri. 
His narrative, as herewith presented, commences at a point some miles below Fort Pierre. 
With reference to the style of the narrative it should be recollected that the tacts Avere 
noted .down on the spot, Avithout any intention of publication.] 

Saturday, April 27, 11 A. M. — Yesterday was an exceedingly unplea- 
sant day; we found a violent north wind blowing in the morning, nevertheless, 
as soon as breakfast was over, we were off on the cheerless prairie. We 
saw but little wood ; the road was hilly and ponds frequent. About ten 
o'clock, we crossed a small stream that gave us some trouble on account 
of the deep mud ; but cold as the day was, the Indians waded through 
without hesitation. About twelve o'clock we came to a place where the 
land was cut up into steep hills and deep ravines, the latter containing a 
little scrubby timber. At one o'clock we reached the spot where the In- 
dians had confidently expected to meet their chief, Old Eagle, who had 
teen there hunting buffalo, but he was not to be found. The Indians ap- 
peared much disappointed and looked very sad. They had left a good 
place for hunting buffalo, and had come here where there were apparently 
none. 

There was every appearance of a violent snow-storm, but bad as our 
situation was, we were thankful that it was no worse ; had these indica- 
tions overtaken us the night before, when there was not a stick of wood 
within miles, we might well have been filled with apprehension, but here 
we had wood, water and grass, and were encamped in a ravine, well shel- 
tered from the storm. About eight o'clock we retired to our beds in the 
waggon, anticipating a cheerless day of inactivity on the morrow. We 
were, however, agreeably disappointed, and at about four o'clock, I was 
awakened by the bustle of preparation for departure. 

We started at half-past five o'clock, and soon crossed Choutain creek, 
the small stream on which we had encamped. Our course during the day, 
after we left the creek, was over level prairie, with no timber in sight or 
water to be found, though buffalo were abundant. I forgot to mention 
that just as we were leaving , the river A'Jacques, a very large wolf, of 
pure white color, a beautiful animal, came walking leisurely towards us. 
A. shot at it, but missed, when it scampsred off. 



85 [ 1 ] 

Siaid 11/, April 23. — Yesterday, after dinner, wc traveled about five 
hours, and then encamped on the shore of Lake Andy, a lonj^ and wide 
«heet of water about ten miles from the Missouri, and aliout sixty from the 
A' Jacques. Our road was over a fine prairie land, exhibiting more grass than 
we had previously seen. During the day I procured two specimens of a small 
plant which 1 had not observed before ; also three specimens of animals, 
viz., a prarie squirrel, a prairie dog, and a dried salamander, which was 
found on the shore of the lake. The prairie dog was shot by Alexander 
at the first dog village that we met with. Two others were also fired at, 
but they escaped. Their motions are so quick, that even when wounded, 
they can scarcely be caught. 

In the morning we started before five o'clock, and had a beautiful and 
pleasant day, with the exception of a strong head wind. The road at first 
was very hilly, but became less so as we advanced. No timber was seen 
except where we encamped there were some thorn bushes and a few small 
trees. Even this scanty vegitation supplied us with better fuel than the 
buffalo dung which we were obliged to use for our fire yesterday. In the 
morning we found the ravines filled and the distant hills covered with 
.snow. 

Tuesday, ./iprll 30. — This morning we were at our camp on the Ameri- 
can Fork. On Sunday about sunset, w^e reached a good encamping ground 
on a small stream called Cow creek. The approach to this is over steep, 
irregular hills, covered wMth stones. Its margins are better tind)ered than 
those of any stream we have seen for several days. During the nig-ht we 
were awakened by the noise of the wind and the beating of the snow 
against the carriage. We expected to see the ground covered with snow 
in the morning, but were agreeably surprised to find this was not the case, 
and that the sun was shining in an almost cloudless sky. We started at 
half-past four, and traveled over a gentle rolling prairie without wood, but 
abounding in depressions filled with water, but which were probably dry 
in summer. At about half-past nine o'clock we reached the Bute Bijoux, 
which we had previously seen from far off covered with snow. It is a 
clump of hills rising very irregularly out of the prairie, and consisting of 
rocks, which have the appearance at a distance, of light-colored lime- 
stone. 

At this place where we found wood, water and grass, we rested two 
hours, and then started for the American Fork. It was not without consi- 
(k-rable hesitation that we determined to go on. The distance was eighteen 
miles ; our horses had no provender except dry prairie grass, and T?ere 
much weakened by cold and the long journey ; we were, howerer, so 
anxious to get through, that we resolved to press on. Our route lay 
across a wide prairie, covered with burnt grass, without wood for many 
miles. Though the weather was warm when we started, it soon com-, 
menced blowing violently from the north, and in a few hours became 
intensely cold. 

About four o'clock, W(> discovereil at a distance a couijiany of Indians, 
and we were soon observed by them, though they at first niislook us for a 
herd of bu.lalo. Two scouts soon reached us in full gallop, and we ac- 
comj)anied them to their encampment, which consisted of several lodges. 
At our arrival, men, women, children, dogs and horses, all came out to 
look at us. . 



[ 1 ] 86 

We still continued our march ; but at length night came on, and we 
found it would be too fatiguing to attempt to reach the Forks, and we 
therefore encamped under the shelter of a small hill, near a pond. No 
wood was to be procured, and the men were obliged to scour the country 
for butfalo dung, which, when it was found, would not burn, and we were 
obliged to break up two boxes for cooking our supper. Our camp was 
uncomfortable ; and much fatigued, I retired early to the waggon, where 
I slept warmly and soundly until about half-past four, when we were up 
and off. We were still about twelve miles from the trading-post belonging 
to Fort Pierre. 

Wednesday , May 1, — When I made my entry yesterday, it was with the 
pleasing anticipation of spending the night at the Yanktown Trading House ; 
but travellers must not calculate too certainly on everything turning out as 
they desire. The previous part of our journey might have taught us this, 
and if it did not, the present lesson has impressed it on my mind. We had 
a fine day, a beautiful road over rolling prairie, and everything seemed to 
favor us. Though we were fatigued by our previous journey, we rejoiced 
in the prospect of comfortable quarters. We soon reached the stream, 
called r believe. Crow creek, but to our great disappointment, instead of a 
small rivulet easily crossed, we found a large A^olume of water far over its 
banks, rolling along with great velocity. We were here obliged to encamp 
and wait for the construction of a skin-boat with which to cross over. 

As we approached Crow creek, the position of the stream was indicated 
by steep hills, some of which indicated volcanic action, I picked up a stone 
which appeared as if it had been melted, and the hills were covered wath 
such. After passing these hills, our eyes were delighted with a most pic- 
turesque scene. At the foot of the hill, on the opposite side of the river, 
were pitched about two hundred Indian lodges, exhibiting all the irregu- 
larity and rude appurtenances which belong to a scene in the w'ilderness. 
All that was wanting to render the picture complete, was the green dress 
of summer for the ground and the trees. 

While we were waiting for the completion of the boat, a number of 
Indians swam across the river, cold as it was, and something had to be 
cooked for them. Fortunately they were content wdth plain fare, which 
was eaten in as plain a style. 

It was very amusing to see the strange mixture of civilized and savage 
costume exhibited in the dress of some of them ; one fellow particularly 
struck my attention — he had met us on the hill with a friendly shake 
of the hand and " how do," " how do." All his garments consisted of a 
short shirt and a waistcoat with the usual Indian clout ; his nether limbs 
wore the clothes that nature had made for them — he was full of talk, 
and very officious, and when the mush was given out, he always assisted 
the helper by eating out of the pot between times. During the afternoon 
many more young Indians swam across the cold rapid stream, and re- 
mained all day with scarcely any clothing on them. They were all 
anxious for horses, and two of them had the traders' receipt for thirty robes. 
They of course must be supplied, and soon one of them was capering 
around us on a fine bay horse, which he had selected. The horse dealing was 
carried much after the same fashion as in the States ; all by-standers had a 
great deal to say and there appeared to be much good humor on all sides. 

During the afternoon the men from the post had been at work on %he 



87 [ 1 ] 

boat — and we expected to get to the houses that night, but when the boat 
was completed it was a proof of the okl adage — the more haste, the less 
speed — the boat wouhl not answer the purpose. We therefore contented 
ourselves to again spend another night in our sleeping room, the wagon. 
Many of the Indians stayed all night: and as I watched their counte- 
nances around the fire, I was struck with the fact, that the circle of faces 
presented the same variety as to expression, intelligence, &c,, as would be 
exhibited by an equal number of civilized men — in none did I notice the 
expression of ferocity. One young man in particular, attracted my notice; 
he had a very intellectual expression and stood by himself with the marks 
of deep thought on his coimtenance — his appearance interested me greatly 
and at once suggested to me my friend C. W. H. of Princeton, but at the 
same moment my eye rested on a common feather, picked up jirobably on 
the prairie, stuck in his hair for ornament, and I could not refrain from 
smiling at the ridiculous contrast between my intelligent young friend and 
the thoughtful Indian. Poor fellow ! perhaps if he had an opportunity for 
study he would ornament his head with something more honorable than 
that which then pleased his fancy. 

Monday, May 6. — Every thing was crossed safely over the river, and by 
evening we were all snugly fixed at Randell's. The Indians had bought all 
our horses that were for sale ; and as they came to the houses wdth us, a 
feast was prepared for them, vyith which they all appeared well satisfied. 
A feast for the Indians is a very simple alfair — a little coffee and gammon, 
or mush served in the simplest style is sufficient. There w^ere sixty or 
seventy gathered on this occasion ; before the food was ready they came in 
and went out, and sat talking, joking and passing around the pipe, just as 
a company of whites would spend their time while waiting for the announce- 
ment of dinner. 

When all w\'is prepared, two kettles were placed in the middle of the 
floor, and each individual was furnished with a pan of some kind to eat 
from, but they had no spoons or anything to answer the same purpose. A. 
then made quite a long speech, not however, standing up, but sitting on a 
bench \\\{\\ his hat on his head and a pipe in his mouth. One of the old men 
then arose, shook hands with him, resumed his seat on the floor and made 
quite a long and animated speech. I could not understand a word of it, but 
was much interested by his earnest manner. Both of the speeches were 
frequently interrupted by cries of " how, how," corresponding, I suppose 
to our " hear, hear," indicating approbation. One of their number then 
volunteered to serve the dinner. He first gave out the coffee to each his 
portion which was received with a " how," thank you. Then the gammon 
was served in the same way, and eaten from the dishes to the great risk, 
as I thought, of the tongue and throat. When this was going on Randell 
spoke, and with great animation. I was surj)rised — he is a Canadian 
Frenchman, and a common man but he "talked like a lawyer," with 
great earnestness and animation. Afterwards the Indians gradually dis- 
persed, and we sat down to a supper of coffee, bangs (corn cakes,) and 
honey ; for the whites do not generally eat when they trive a feast to the 
Indians. I could not but think how amusing it would be to my friends at 
home to see us enjoying thisy'ea^^. We had no forks and had to use the 
knives we carried in out belts. 

In the morning we were off about half-past six o'clock, and hoped to 



[1 ] 



88 



reach Fort Pierre on Friday evening, but it was beyond our power. Our 
men had been furnished with Indian horses and we had put some other 
jnules into the cart, giving our mules their okl place in the buggy. The 
road was good and well marked as it is much traveled passing over rolling 
prairie. Timber and water were scarce. The wind blew quite violently 
which increased the fatigue of traveling. About two o'clock we stopped 
for dinner on a high hill where we found plenty of wood left by some Indi- 
ans. After dinner the wind made the traveling so unpleasant that we 
•encamped early in a ravine, through which ran a small stream called 
the Chain of Rocks, from the fact of a ridge of rocks extending across 
the Missouri at its mouth. The sides of this ravine were covered with 
banks of snow six and ten feet deep. In the morning we made an early 
«tart with a clear sky and bright sun ; the wind tlid not seem to be unusu- 
ally violent, but in less than an hour it became so. 

About ten o'clock we reached La Chapelle creek, almost worn out with 
fatigue. We all agreed that of all our bad days, this had been the worst. 
But we found good restoratives in plenty of hot coffee and meat, and a 
rest of a few hours made us all again in a condition for traveling. The 
afternoon proved pleasant and we soon reached Medicine creek which was 
fordable ; we passed on and about seven o'clock found a good camping 
ground at the foot of an island some miles below the fort. We were oil 
before sunrise, and at seven o'clock on the^ morning of Saturday, May 4, 
we I had the pleasure of halting opposite Fort Pierre. 

The boat could not come over for us at once, and so we had something 
to eat by way of variety, and waited, not very patiently, for it. About 
twelve o'clock it reached us, and as the wind was blowing, we were 
cordelled up about a mile, and then crossed and landed at the fort gate. 
The cannon and guns were fired in honor of the " Boss," and we were re- 
ceived with great kindness. I was glad to stop ; we had been forty-five 
days coming from St. Louis, and our trip had been a tedious one. A's. 
quarters are very comfortable and we were put in better condition here 
than we had been for some days. The Indians soon invited A. to a dog 
feast, but he was too tired to go ; however, they at night brought over 
to him some of the meat and had a talk with him. I was too fatigued to 
attend, but some of the meat was given me, which I thought tasted strongly 
of dog. Yesterday was Sunday, and was truly a day of rest. This 
morning I feel very well, and am preparing for a start to-morrow for the 
Mauvaise Terre. 

Tuesday, May 7. — This morning at seven o'clock I started from Fort 
Pierre, for the Mauvaise Terre or 13ad Lands of White river. Our com- 
pany consists of three — young M'Kenzie, myself and one of the men from 
the Fort. The whole equipment is at the cost of A. We are well fur- 
nished with provisions for about two weeks, and have three mules all of 
which are the worse for w^ear, but they are the best we could get, as the 
Indians have bought up all the best horses and mules and are clamorous for 
more. We had a pleasant morning for our start, although it was a little 
hazy. By ten o'clock we had reached Willow creek, eight miles from the 
Fort, and there we dined. After this we moved off, expecting to go thir- 
teen miles further, but we found our mules scarcely strong enough for 
the trip, and stopped after traveling eight miles ; I hope to reach Bear 
creek, our destination, on Saturday, but fear that we shall not be able ; 



89 [ 1 ] 

however, I find that to take all things patiently is the best way to get along^ 
and so I shall do so. 

The face of the country along the route of to-day lias been hilly ; it is 
nearly all barren rolling prairie, scarce of water and tind)er, and having the 
soil strongly impregnated with saltpetre. I understand this to be the 
cause of the white appearance I here so often noticed ; it looks like lime 
st;attered over the ground, and has been very abundant to day. Not sa 
much gravel, nor so many stones as on the other side of the Missouii. Mr. 
M'Kenzie has had great opportunity for learning the customs and habits of 
the Indians. lie told me to-day, tbat while they have no priests nor regular 
religious system, they all worsliip something — they otler sacrifices of cloth 
and other articles to the Great Spirit, and this is done by simply casting 
them into the prairies with some form of prayer I suppose. Scarlet cloth is 
generally preferred for this, also calico with red in it, and sheet iron kettles 
that iiave not been used. The Gros Ventres and Assiniboines are mere re- 
gular in this than the other tribes; they otfer great sacrifices every s})ring, 
at the time of the first rain wbich is accompanied with thunder and light- 
ning. Besides the worshij) of the Great Spirit, they all have something 
else to worship — a pipe stem, cap, feather or whatever suits their fancy. 

The tribes along the Missouri have no chiefs ; those who have authority 
amongst them gain it by their valor in war, their skill in stealing horses, 
and the number of their kinch'ed. They have authority only because they 
are feared, and if accidents removes this prop, they fall. This is often 
the case, as I have been told by several lamiiiar with all the Missouri 
tribes. They make frequent war parties, but in my opinion their bravery 
is overrated ; they do not fight openly and boldly as the whites, but their 
great object is to surprise. M'Kenzie told me of one party of Sioux, nine 
iiundred strong, wlio went to war against the Gros Ventres and returned, 
having murdered only one little boy, whom they caught straying from the 
village. Another party had several of their number taken prisoners and burnt 
before their eyes, and, instead of revenging the death of their triend, they 
•leturned crying, and were laughed at, when they got home. There are about 
000 lodges of the Yanktonians, and about four hundred of the Tetons. 

Wednesday, May 8. — We are encamped this evening on the Sheepoi 
river about forty-four miles from the Fort; our old mules have done better 
to-day than I expected, as they have brought us thus far, although they 
gave out again this afternoon. The road to-day has been very hilly and 
the land barren. Animals are scarce — we have not seen any but a single 
wolf since we left, and a few small birds; one of the latter is beautiful in 
shape and plumage. It is a small snow bird, white in winter, but now of a 
dove color with some white. 

T picked up to-day quite a number of small pieces of petrified wood 
which were lying in the road. 'I'he bills thus far have not been covered 
with stones and rocks as they were across the river ; I passed l)ut one hill 
to-(hiy on which were stones scattered over the surface, and they seemed 
to have been made by the breaking of large rocks; the pieces were about 
the sv/.o of those for turnpike roads. Wood has been found more abundant 
than I expected from the account given me of its scarcity ; it is scarce but 
vStill enough is found for a fire every ten miles, water isalso abundant now, 
but probably not so in the smnmer. W^- dined to-day at Big Hole creek, 
at present containing plenty of good water, but in summer it only a large 
hole filled with water. 



[ 1] 



90 



Last night we had a good deal of talk around our fire about the Black 
Hills. Joe, an experienced hunter tells me that they are covered with the 
finest pine timber, so thick that a person on horseback cannot pass through 
it in some places. There is an abundance of fine water but no fish ; plenty 
of all kinds of game. Grizly bears are found there sometimes in bands, like 
buffalo ; they live on fruit, tlesh and ants ; to get these they turn over the 
largest logs and eat them off the under side. He never knew a man to kill 
one with young, and less is known to the hunter about the time of their 
breeding, than about that of any other animal in this section. They are 
not found north of the Missouri. 

[ JVote. — Grizzly bears are often found in the Bad Lands ; we saw the 
fresh tracks of one at Sage creek, but saw nothing more of him. ] 

Thursday, May 9. — We are encamped this evening on Cotton Wood 
creek, and a pleasant evening it is ; sitting by a fire with my ears delighted 
with the evening song of the birds, and my eyes gratified with the lovely 
shades of the sky as the evening draws on. 

We have travelled about twenty-six miles to-day, which w^as doing 
wonders for our old mules ; from the fine roads I should judge that wdth a 
good team and a light load, we could easily go from the Fort to the Mau- 
vaises Terres in three days ; it will take us however, five and a half. This 
morning w^e left the first fork of the Sheepoi creek, dined on the Ree creek, 
about fifteen miles from the former, and came on here for the night, eleven 
miles. These streams are all small ; water and timber scarcer than here- 
tofore ; rolling prairie but more level land than yesterday. I have noticed 
that the streams along this road are different from those across the Missouri, 
in that their banks are neither so steep nor so soft. The hills are not so 
stony, though the land is apparently poor. 

Friday, May 10. — Our camp this evening is at the head of the Little 
Missouri or Bad river. There is another river higher up call the Little 
Missouri, but how this one got the same name I cannot ascertain. We 
have come to-day about twenty-six miles ; the route until noon was over a 
section of country very similar to what we passed before ; the small streams 
had better timber on them than any we have seen since we left. About 
nine o'clock we came to what is called Grindstone hills ; they are three 
elevations ranging north and south, covered with a sandstone ; there are 
more stones on them than on any hill I have seen this side of the Missouri, 
iind these evidently belong to strata beneath the surface ; the soil on these 
little hills is different from what it is below and the eastern side is much 
steeper than the western ; this is true of nearly all the large hills I passed 
this afternoon. I could not examine the top of the Grindstone hills, as I 
had no horse. 

About five or six miles from them we reached a basin-shaped valley 
which at once suggested the idea of a lake with an outlet and an inlet ; 
there is a ridge about the middle that divides it into two portions. The 
face of the country has been more varied than heretofore, and timber much 
more abundant ; we crossed the beds of several streams which were dry ; 
nearly all the streams within a few miles of this, unite to form Bad river, 
the point of union is called its head. To-morrow morning we shall mount a 
high bluff and have a prairie for a long way. Game as scarce as ever — 
Joe killed a prairie dog, a little grey wolf and missed two antelopes. — 
M'Kenzie is cleaning the wolf's head. We were all very much amused at 
the old mules about four miles from here ; we had just reached a good 



91 [1] 

camping ground and were passing on, when the mules thought it time to 
stop, and did so; we kicked and whipped, but the mules would only more 
in a circle or back ; we all whijiped and then laughed at the preposterous 
notion of encamping at four o'clock on a fine afternoon. Finally, after a 
while the whipping prevailed and on we went. 

To-morrow we shall get a distant view of the Black hills. Got to-day, 
several specimens of insects; yesterday, one botanical specimen. A lovely 
evening, a pleasant camp, and a prospect of a good day to-morrow. 

Saturday, May 11. — Our camp this evening is on Sage creek, a few 
miles in the iMauvaise Terre or Bad Lands of \\ hite river. We started this 
morning just as the sun was peeping over the hills ; about two miles from 
camp we ascended a steep and high blulf, and entered on a wide prairie. 
This extended plain is unbroken by a hill until we reach a stream called 
Pinau's spring, about nine miles from Bad river. We passed down a few 
hills to reach this, and on the left of the road was an elevated })iece of 
ground that appeared to me as though it might be a mound, but doubtless 
it was only a natural elevation. At this spring We found a hole containing 
good water, and had an excellent place for campi 

For breakfast we fiired well, and among other things had prairie dog. I 
tasted the latter and found it pretty good, although it had somewhat of the 
dog taste. These little animals are very much like a grey squirrel and are 
much eaten by the hunters. Their bark is more like a chirp, and reminds 
me of a bird rather than of a dog. They lie at their holes and keep a con- 
stant barking, and their tails go as fast as their jaws, for every bark, a 
shake of the tail. We passed a large village of them covering several acres, 
just after we started, but I judge them to be lazy fellows, as but two ap- 
peared to be stirring, although the sun was then up. I found seveial good 
skulls of these animals, and a number of jaw bones which I preserved. Poor 
fellows I they had been shot and suffered to rot at their own doors. After 
breakfast I got several specimens of a plant growing abundantly on the 
green bank at the edge of the water. I also prepared some wood for the 
pins of my specimens of insects of which I have a few. We then started, 
and again arose to a level prairie which we had with only a few hills as far 
as Bull creek, about nine miles. Long before reaching this sti'cam, I hatl 
my first view of the l^ad Lands ; a bute arose perpeiulicular out of the plain 
very irregular in its shape ; I viewed it with a great deal of interest, as 
being the first of that remarkable ground which I had come so far to see. 

We reached Bull creek about two o'clock, and there gave the mules some 
rest. Just before reaching it, Joe killed an antelope, of which we had seen 
several. We packed the hams and shoulders to camp. While there, M'- 
Kenzie prepared the skull of a curlew, which Joe had killed in the morning; 
he also partially j)repared the skull of the antelope. The sti-eam was dry, 
liaving water only in a few holes ; it was approached by a long (k'scent, 
and the banks Were very much washed. There was a sandy soil of about 
five feet, then strata of stones and gravel of about three feet, then another 
deposit of a light yellow clay. I took out a small piece of Wood from a 
spot about five feet under the surface. 

W\' left Bull creek about three o'clock, and moved along very slowly, as 
it was very warm and we all felt lazy. The road now lay over hills which 
became more steep and fre(iuent as we approached the Bad Lands. These 
occasionally appeared in the distance, and never iirfore did 1 S(>e anything 
that so resembled a large city ; so complete was this deception that 1 could 



[ I ] 



92 



point out the public buildings ; one appeared to have a large dome which 
might be the town hall ; another, a large angular, cone-shape top, which I 
would suggest the court house or some magnificent building for public 
purposes ; then would appear a row of palaces, great in number and superb 
in all their arrangements. Indeed the thought frequently occurred as we 
rode along, that at a distance, this portion of the ground looked like a city 
of palaces; every thing arranged upon the grandest scale and adapted for 
the habitation, not of pigmies, such as now inhabit the earth, but of giants, 
such as would be fit to rule over the ponderous animals whose remains are 
still found there. Again and again, as from different positions these hills 
came in sight, would such thoughts arise in my mind, and I could almost 
fancy, that upon the wind would occasionally be borne, the din and bustle 
of the immense city. 

The mintl could not remain with the present ; it must range back to the 
earliest period, and ask whence were these things? but soon a nearer view 
would destroy all illusion and fancy would have to give place to fact, and 
allow these self-created cities to be mere sand hills. But sand hills as they 
are, they are wonderful and must excite the greatest interest in the scientific 
world. I wish that we had with us a company of men of this kind pre- 
pared for a thorough exploration, as my only hope is to be an humble 
pioneer, and to l)e the means of prompting others more able to engage in 
the work. Our route lay to the west of the Lands, and away in the dis- 
tance, still further west, appeared a dim blue outline which marked the 
Black hills ; these are distant about two days march. 

The road from Fort Pierre is in a direction nearly due west, until about 
Pinot's spring, where it takes a general direction of south by west. As it 
approaches Sage creek, ho\vever, it becomes very serpentine, for so great is 
the descent from the plains to the water level here, that the road must 
follow all the wincbngs of the ridse to set down to it. 

The tops of the highest butes in the BafI Land appeared to be aliout on a 
level with the plain, but I took no exact observation. About five o'clock, 
we came near to Sage creek and entered on the Bad Lands ; here it is 
merely a great number of small hills of all shapes thrown together in great 
confusion and very barren. In thinking of how these lands were formed, 
it occurred to me very forcibly, that it was by some convulsion of nature 
by which the ground sunk — the hills were not elevated, but were left so by 
the depression of the surrounding land. This opinion appears to be con- 
firmed by the fact, that the highest butes have on their tops, prairie land 
covered with vegetation, such as the plain beyond the Bad Lands ; then 
again, the formation of one of the first hills over which the road passes, 
confirms it ; the hill is very steep on both sides and ranges nearly north and 
south, I think ; it is just about long enough for a good road, and is covered 
as thick as the bottom of any stream with gravel and small stones, such as 
are found in the beds of streams here ; at each end of this little hill stand 
two butes, one very slightly elevated, between which the road passes, and 
just opposite and east of the right hand one, is another like them, the tops 
of all of which are nearly level, and as well as I could observe, covered 
with the same kind of small stones as cover the road and just as thick ; the 
sides of these small butes are perpendicular, and the strata of clay they ex- 
hibit are horizontal, showing that they have not been distributed by any 
up-heaving force. 

This same thing is true of a great many of the hills ; the strata are pep- 



93 [ 1 ] 

fectly horizontal. I noticed one in which the hill appears to have sunk, 
leaving tlie middle of it rising up as a peak, twenty or thirty feet high, and 
in this peak the strata are horizontal. It is true, that there are a great 
many peaked hills with inclined sides, hut throughout there are many with 
horizontal strata of clay ; giving evidence that tliey had been left there and 
]U){ foruied by upheaval. On Monday morning I hope to reach the petri- 
factions. 

Tuesday, May 14. — Yesterday I visited the Bad Lands, but did not get 
to camp until it was too late to record the events of the day. We had en- 
camped during Sunday, on Sage creek, nine miles from Bear river ; in the 
morning W'e were off early, and took breakfast at Bear river. The road 
from Sage creek winds considerably at first, over some very steep hills. 
This creek is one of the most crooked streams I ever saw ; its banks are 
almost perpendicular, and from twenty to thirty feet high. I observed in 
several places in the bank, a thick stratum of slate about tw'enty feet below 
the surface of the ground ; the water is briny and leaves a deposit of salt 
on the stones ; it, as all the other streams along the route contains at pre- 
sent, no running water ; the clay m the bottom is nearly pure white, and so 
clear is the waiter, that at first it seemed muddy from the clay at the bot- 
tom ; wdien the water in these pools was moved by a gentle breeze, the 
shadows on the bottom were most beautiful. 

A few miles from the creek we passed over some hills that gave evidence 
of having experienced the most violent convulsions; these, unlike those 
seen on Satuwiay, appeared to have been upheaved and to have experienced 
the action of fire ; one place suggested the idea of a volcanic crater ; it*was 
a slight hollow and contained a number of small rocks diffei'ent from any 
around it ; a little above, the hills were of white sand, and oix; was covered 
with small rounded red stones. 

From these hills we ascended to a prairie, the most level Ihat I have seen ; 
for miles the eye could detect scarcely the least rise, and it gave not the 
smallest evidence of the convulsions that probably raged so Jiear it. This 
level prarie continued wdth but a single interruption till we reached the 
hills of Bear creek. The descent to this is by a very steep hill and beyond 
it another level — a steep takes us to another level beyond. All along this 
route the Black hills are distinctly seen in the distance, and this side of them 
the woods of Shazer river. We encamped on Bear river near a spring, 
which is always anxiously looked for by travelers through this country. I 
shared in this anxiety and expected to see a fine flowing fountain. I was 
disappointed to find only three small holes in the side of the hill, but was 
again agreeably surprised to find cool, delightful sand water. It is 
the only water' I have really relished for a long while, except perhaps 
that of the Missouri. 

Immediately after breakfast, we left our baggage and started for the point 
which I had long hoped to reach ; my anxiety was great to see the won- 
ders of which I had heard so much. A rapid ride over a good road, soon 
])rought us to the edge of the descent ; this was steep but even, and in a 
few minutes w'e were on the level below; nothing remarkal)le apjieared 
here ; in about half an hour we reached the Bad Lands themselves and my 
interest was intense. 

The road now was over the deposite of yellow^ish white clay, so hardened 
by the sun as scarcely to be impressed by the hoofs of the mules or by 
the wheel of the buggy — it was very smooth ; we now passed by a number 



[ 1 ] 



94 



of small spots of ground from one to five feet above the level of this clay, 
having grass on their tops like those on the prairies above ; their sides were 
perpendicular, and having lallen down by the action of the weather, the 
horizontal strata of sand and clay were exposed. We soon reached the 
place where petrifactions most abound. I got out and looked around for 
them ; I was shown a number of ugly dark red, unshapen masses — these, 
my guide told me w^ere petrified turtles, their shells being destroyed by the 
action of the sun, and they are crumbling to pieces. The ground in many 
places is thickly covered with small lumps, the broken remains of turtles, 
which a few years ago were perfect. I felt disappointed, for I had ex- 
pected to see many fine specimens of petrifactions of different animals. I 
started however, on a voyage of discovery around this pond-shaped basin, 
and was shown a large turtle almost perfect, though broken in tw^o pieces, 
its shell partly remained. This we secured as part of our treasure. 

There w^ere three of us and we took diiferent directions. I found every- 
where the remains of turtles in diiferent stages of preservation, none per- 
fect however. I picked up a number of pieces of bone, but found no teeth 
nor any heads. This w-as discouraging, but on my return to the buggy, I 
saw that one of the men had brought an excellently preserved head * of 
about the size of that of a large bear ; he had found also several other gcod 
specimens. When I ascertained the locality of these petrifactions to be so 
circumscribed, I hastened to finish collecting in one day, and although the 
sun was broiling hot, and w^e had no water except a very little brought 
with us to cook, we "'vent, and by evening w^e had made quite a good ex- 
amination of this immediate locality ; w^e had about half a buvshel of small 
articles, a number of excellent teeth and jaw bones, several good heads and 
a couple of pretty good small turtles, besides the large one before mentioned. 
These I thought as many as my means of transportation w^ould allow. I 
have since found them to be more, for they are very heavy. I then filled a 
small bag with the clay, and the fragments of petrified turtle, and started 
with M'Kenzie for the top of one of the highest hills. To gain this was 
no small matter, as the path was very steep and mostly very narrow ; at 
length we reached it, and a most magnificent landscape rewarded our labor. 
The bute we ascended had on its top a level prairie of about twenty acres ; 
it was covered with grass and as near as I could judge of the same level as 
those beyond the Lands. 

These prairies on the butes, and tliey are on nearly every one, are the 
ranges of the Big Horn (Ovis Americana) ; they love to roam around the 
very brink and along the steep sides, and seem to think themselves secure 
in their heights. We judged this bute to be about two hundred feet high, 
and nearly all the others are the same. In every direction except towards 
the prairie we could see these great hills towering above the plain below, 
having their sides washed into picturesque shapes ; the lower elevations 
looked beautiful with thejr carpet of grass and scattered about through the 
hard white clay surlace, and this itself appeared almost like water at the 
height where we stood. Away to the south appeared the hill on wdiich is 
the Ash spring, and near it several high hills which looked like the old 
towers that are perched on the hills of the Rhine ; in every direction this 
same palace-like appearance was exhibited by the hills in the distance. 

But how shall I convey a correct idea of these lands ? this question has 

* A uew species of fossil Rhinoceros, — S. F- B. 



95 [ 1 ] 

octrurred to me often to-day ; my own conception of them were very dif- 
ferent from the general desciiptions I had heard, and 1 fear that I must 
likewise fail in describing them to others. If you imagine an extensive 
tract of peifectly level land, and suppose that the whole sinks about two 
hundred feet except some large lots, every few hundred feet apart, you w^ill 
Iiave some idea of what was probably the original ap])earance of these 
lands; you must suppose also a number, some very small and some very 
large, to sink not so much as two hunched feet, but near it ; on all these the 
highest and the lowest, the level prairie soil remains, but below these lowest 
a few^ feet, a yellowish clay soil takes its place. In the course of time the 
rains wash the original perpendicular sides into various shapes still steep, 
and partaking of the spirit of the Gothic style of architecture. From some 
the original soil is washed entirely away, and they stand at intervals with 
whitened sides and rounding top amongst their higher and more fortunate 
neighbors. Fancy yourself on the hottest day in sununer, in the hottest 
spot of such a place without water, without an animal, and scarcely an 
insect astir, without a single flower to speak pleasant things to the "eye, 
and you will have some idea of the utter loneliness of the Bad Lands. ' It 
appears to me quite certain that slight excavations in some of these hills 
would develope many very perfect specimens ; many of those now disco- 
vered on and near the surface, most probably have been washed out by 
the rains and when exposed for some time they crumble to pieces, at least 
the petrified turtles do so. 

I was much surprised to see, running through ditlerent parts of the clay 
surface, vertical strata of a singular looking substance, something like melted 
glass and almost transparent ; the strata is about one fourth of an inch in 
thickness and do not lie in a series of strata, but between each stratum 
there are several inches of the clay and they protrude several inches above 
the clay, while in many places the surface is covered with small pieces, as 
though injected strata had been broken up. Specimens of these strata were 
secured. [ What is the substance ? ] 

Another singular fact is the layers of a peculiarly formed sand stone found 
in nearly every hill: they are generally of a rounded shape, weighing pro- 
bably ten or fifteen pounds, and they are placed as stone in a wall arountl 
the whole hill, and between each layer there are from eight to ten feet of 
clay. They ai-e not confined to this small size, but are also found very 
large and of the most singular shapes, At a hasty glance they seem as if 
put there by the hand of man ; in some places they appear as if they had 
run into these irregular shapes in a melted state. 

There was no water to be found there, nor grass, except on the prairie 
spots; the water when found is scarcely drinkable. 

Wednesday, May lo. — Darkness interrupted my narrative last evening, 
and I resume it at our noon encampment at the head of the Little Missouri 
or ]5ad river. 

On our return to camp on Monday evening, we found all the baggage 
safe. On thinking over the matter, I determined to start for home in iho 
morning ;_ I had seen enough of the Lands to give a general description of 
that portion of them and had secured a few good specimens. To do more 
than than this would have required good saddle horses, and I had only a 
pair of inditlerent mules; the weather was intensely hot, and no water to 
be had in the Lands, so that it would have been a great labor to have ex- 
amined them more thoroughly, and besides this, I felt that a more general 



[1] 



96 



examination such as my limited means and time would allow, would be of 
little service. I had already done enough to excite inquiry, and further 
exploration must be made by scientific men wath a corps of assistants. One 
day more might have secured a Big Horn, but this would hardly justify my 
stay. Therefore, wdiile I greatly feared that Professor Baird would be 
disappointed, I determined to start in the morning. 

We arose early, but were detained by our mules having wandered off. 
About seven o'clock we started, very heavily loaded. I felt sure that we 
must walk the whole distance, and although such a prospect did not daunt 
me, yet a walk of one hundred and thirty miles in very hot weather, and 
after a three months trip, was no trifling matter; we started, but as we 
were ascending the hill of the opposite bank of the river, something about 
the tongue broke by which we were detained nearly an hour. Then one 
mule could scarcely pull the load up the hill, and the buggy was evidently 
on the point of breaking down. However, we got up the hill and on the 
level prairie — had a fine road. I got in to ride a short distance and rather 
sad thoughts occurred to me ; there I was, laboring and fatiguing myself so 
much, in perfect contrast to my situation a year ago, or to my situation in 
Princeton, but I felt that I would prefer being there to lounging about the 
fort ; the only thing that troubled me, was how to get the load home ; we 
at last crossed Sage creek, and there stopped for dinner ; the buggy looked 
still worse, and one of the springs showed evident signs of breaking. 

After much uneasiness, I determined to leave there all we could, and 
hasten home and then send a cart for what we would leave. The principal 
reasons for doing so were, that the buggy could not carry the load, nor 
could I take any portion of my collection at all ; for on the road out, so 
heavy was the load, and so weak the mules that we walked at least one 
half the distance. I felt sure also that I would give out ; my limbs could 
not carry me much further. We therefore made what they call a baggage, 
that is a deposit of articles, and started for Bull creek ; we had a very 
warm, fatiguing ride, and although we reached there early, we were so 
tired that all hands were willing to rest. We stopped for the night and 
had a fine encampment. 

This morning we were up, had breakfixst, and w^ere on our way before 
sunrise, and about six o'clock we reached this place. A few miles from 
this we met a party with several carts going to trade with the Shagen Indi- 
ans beyond the Bad Lands : they by promising to bring our baggage, light- 
ened my heart very much. I find the few warm days since we passed here, 
have brought out the buds on the trees. 

Thursday, May 16. — Lnst night we camped on Grindstone creek; 
the clouds were heavy and threatened rain, but happily it passed oyer 
without any. To-day "at noon we camped on Bee creek, and this evening 
are at our old encampment on the Sheepoi river. To-day has been windy 
and rather cold : quite pleasant this evening. To-morrow we hope to reach 
the fort, and it is about time, as our provisions are nearly out. 

Saturday, May 18. — Last evening about sunset, I reached the Fort 
very much fatigued, and very glad to get back again to comfortable quarters. 
We had traveled that (biy forty-throe miles with our team nearly given out. 

I had been absent about eleven days, one of which was a day of rest. I 
had traveled nearly three-hundred miles— had made considerable collections 
in the Mauvaises Terre, and had seen a goodly portion of the country be- 
tween the Missouri and the Platte. The journey was a fatiguing one to the 



97 [ 1 ] 

flesh but a profitable one to the spirit, and I do not in the least regret having 
made it ; my only regret is that my limited means did not permit me to go 
prepared for a more thorough exploration. 

Tuesday, May 21. — Fatigued as I was from my late trip, the rest at the 
fort has been very acceptable. Sunday was a quiet, pleasant day, but I did 
not do much reading as I did not feel very well, and in the evening had a 
severe attack of illness. On Monday morning I felt disinclined to move 
about; so I busied myself for a part of the morning in marking what speci- 
mens I have here. This so fatigued me, that I took a long sleep. In the 
evening the clouds threatened a storm, but although there w^as considerable 
thunder and lightning, there was, to our regret, scarcely any rain, which is 
very much needed for the farms which are beginning to be cultivated. 
But everything appears to indicate a very dry and hot season. The river 
has fallen about five feet while I have been away, and at the present 
stage of water the expected steamboat of the Fur Company could scarcely 
get up : however the June rise from the mountains will probably make it 
high enough. 

The weather has been warm for some days, and should a rain come I 
shall be able to make a good botanical collection, but as it now is, all the 
flowers are very backward. I have found several different plants along the 
route and the same near the fort. One delicate purple flower remhided me 
of the beautiful Virginian cowslip which w\as plenty about Clifton ; another 
I think, is a species of wild pea ; another is a modest little yellow violet, and 
another appears to be a white variety of the purple one first mentioned ; it 
resembles it in everything but the color of the petals, and these are pure 
white ; the specimen I received is the only one I have seen. 

Yesterday a party started out on a buffalo hunt across the Missouri, but 
I preferred staying in the fort. This morning A. and I took a ride on horse- 
back four miles up the river, over a pleasant, level road, and passed through 
a prairie-dog village, but fomid the canine inhabitants very ti^uid. 

Thursday May 23. — This morning I arose about 5 o'clock and found the 
earth much refreshed by a slight rain of last night. The air was so sultry 
that we expected another shower but we have been disappointed. The river 
still continues very low and everything unfavorable for a very high stage of 
water. Felt better than for several days past ; the fotigues of my long trip 
are passing away gradually, and some little energy is again creeping into 
my system. I spoke to M'Kenzie about getting for me a bow with a quiver 
of arrows, wdiich he promised to do, and also to start out some young Indians 
after the little rabbits peculiar to the prairie ; he inquired about a young 
grey wolf which some Indians had in their possession a few days ago, but to 
my regret it had been killed ; it would have made a good skeleton. 

Having spent an hour in vrriting, I felt like taking a short botanical ex- 
cursion and spent about two hours up the river gathering several good spe- 
cimens of a number of different plants, and also collecting some insects. — 
Flowers are still rare. On my return I saw a number of beautiful birds 
which were singing cheerfully ; one of these w^as a little mocking bird such 
as we had first heard on Sage Creek ; he perches himself on the topmost 
twig of a tree and sings away his varied song with great glee. I saw also 
a large and very beautiful species of the thrush. After dinner I rode with 
my brother to the Little Missouri ; the hills in that direction are covered 
with gravel as across the Missouri. Brought in two botanical specimens. 
Afterwards went out to the lodges with Gilpin to witness a great game at 
■ Mis— 7. 



[ 1 ] 98 

handy (ball) by the Indians ; about sixty were engaged in it, old and young, 
men and boys, and they had a number of bets staked on the result. The 
whole company appeared to be greatly interested, as the women stood at the 
lodge doors occasionally cheering on the game with songs and shouts. — 
The players, had laid aside all their garments except their clouts, and 
played with as much zest as a set of school boys, but not with equal fair- 
ness ; for some of them carried blankets or robes with which to stop the 
ball. This, I am told, is a favorite game with the Indians, and sometimes 
hundreds are engaged in it. 

They have another popular game called billiards on which they bet a 
great deal ; it is entirely different from our game of that name. In the e\e- 
ning walked up to the prairie village with A. to kill a prairie dog, but did 
not succeed, 

Friday, May 24. — Last night I was aroused by the roaring of the wind, 
blowing violently through my open window, which I immediately closed ; 
soon after my ears were delighted to hear the rain beating heavily on 
the roof, and I was prepared for the evidence shown this morning of a heavy 
fall of water. 

In the afternoon I took a walk up the river for exercise and to gather 
flowers ; saw very few, as the day had been cold and cloudy. I found, 
however, two new specimens and several of the old ones were quite nume- 
rous, especially the delicate purple violet. I paid a hasty visit to the prairie- 
dog village and got three sculls, and then hastened home refreshed by the 
invigorating breeze, and prepared to relish my supper. M'Kenzie was out 
at the same time and secured three birds for stuffiing — one of them a thrush 
and two others quite small specimens. • 

I noticed on my way home a black bird with his wings marked with white 
where one species has the beautiful, brilliant red ; also noticed a little bird 
with its breast of the singular color of a pale pea-green. 

After tea talked out to see another game of bandy ; all were again at it 
with hearty good will — it appeared strange to see the old chief, Little Bear, 
with nothing but his breech cloth on, and his bandy in hand as hard at play 
as the youngest child in the party, and there were some quite young among 
them. They afforded a pretty sight as they hurried in different directions 
after the ball in their flesh colored uniform, their scarlet cloth streaming 
out behind, with an occasional head highly or^iamented 

One squaw only joined in the play and as she had on an English dress 
she appeared somewhat out of place. The whole encampment however took 
great interest in the scene, and every lodge had its collection of squaws and 
babies looking on with A'aried interest. It was altogether a wild and cheer- 
ful scene, and a good illlustration of one of the national amusements of the 
Indians. I would suggest it as a grave question for those who can see 
farther than their neighbors into a mill stone — whether our school-boys de- 
rived this game from the savage, or handed it over to them, or whether both 
being ranked under the head of savages may be regarded as having inherited 
it from the same original source ? 

Two of the voyageurs were engaged in the game, and at the end of 
the sport an Indian gave one of them a horse, worth probably twenty 
robes ; the same person a few days ago received a present of forty robes ; 
"fortunate fellow" would the unitiated exclaim ; but an Indian present is 
like an eastern gift, which is to be returned with compound interest ; in this 
country one finds it more to his advantage to buy anything he may want 



99 [ 1 ] 

from an Indian. A trader just pointed out to me an Indian who had (riven 
him a porcupine skin in the winter, and said he, "I haA'e not done paying 
for it yet though I have given him the vahie of seventeen-hundred dolhirs 
ahx'ady." This system of presents prevails to a great extent here ; you 
wouhl think them the most generous people in the world, and they are really 
so, but they get paid a great deal in the same way. This refers to the 
whites as well as to the Indians. Obtained from Mr. Gilpin some valuable 
statistics about the Sioux nation. 

Read Lynch's work, and was exceedingly struck with the similarity that 
must exist between the conformation of some parts of that country around 
the Dead Sea and this ; so striking is the resemblance that a paragraph de- 
scriptive of it is almost the same as my language in describing the distant 
view of the Mauvaise Terre ; it is found at page 330 chapter 15, in the ac- 
count of an excursion to Masada, where "they beheld in the distance 
most singular formations resembling a plain covered with towns and villages, 
marble cities with columns, temples, domes and palaces, which as they (the 
beholders) advanced flided away and finally resolved themselves into curi- 
ously configurated hills, so marketl and channelled by the weather, that 
although aware of the formation, it was difiicult to destroy the first illusion." 
See pages 91 and 92 of this journal. 

I think the picture of Masada, facing page 332 might easily pass for a 
view of one of the sand butes of the Bad Lands. It will certainly be an 
interesting question for my more learned followers to investsgate, and I hope 
it may serve to throw some light on the formations in both districts. 

A. mentioned to-day some Mauvaise Terre high up on the Missouri more 
w^onderful than those on White River — he did not know whether petrifac- 
tions were found there or not. 

Saturday, May 25. — This morning early the clouds were very heavy and 
indicated a heavy rain but it did not come, although it has been cloudy 
throughout the day ; just now, however, it appears as if about to begin, and 
it probably will be a long one. Fire has been very pleasant all day. Before 
coming here I had been led to suppose that changes in temperature were not 
sudden : my experience however has been very different. But ray constitu- 
tion does not suffer from them as it did in the East, either because of my 
more vigorous health or of the great purity of the air, and perhaps it may 
be from a combination of both. 

During the forenoon I took a long walk down the river on the look-out 
for plants, but found very few ; however got three new specimens for the 
herbarium, and several fine yellow violets, which I hope will press better 
than those heretofore tried. I walked for nearly a mile on a sand bar, and 
found imbedded in the sand a well preserved buffalo skull, wanting only the 
lowx^r jaw. I sent Jim for it and shall give it the privilege of a visit to the 
East. M'Kenzie did not succeed in skinning the small birds shot this 
morning, on account of such large holes in them. In the afternoon one of 
the men brought me a small owl which lives with the prairie-dog. I killed 
it, and with M'K's. assistance took off its skin ; but as we have no arsenic, 
I fear it will not keep ; I have, therefore, made a skeleton of it and if the 
skin decays will have at least its bones. 

While engaged in this operation, a band of Indians entered the yard for 
a dance ; they were about twenty in number and had two leaders, one on 
horseback. All were dressed in war costume and had their bodies painted 
with vermiUion, or with yellow ochre ; they exhibit the same taste for dis- 



[ 1 ] 100 

play that the whites do in their military costume ; the buckskin leggins of 
those who had them, were ornamented with very long fringes of differ- 
ent colors, and so also were the coats of several ; some had long tails orna- 
mented with metallic plates about as large as a dollar, reaching to the ground; 
their lances, w^hich were about ten feet long, had a long fringe ot brilliantly 
colored feathers reaching almost the whole leno-th ; some had handsome 
bows and quivers, and indeed time would fail me in describing all their orna- 
ments and implements. Having formed themselves into a circle the musicians 
began to beat their tambourino like drums, and to howl most melodiously 
according to their taste. All joined in the song, which sounded very much 
like the negro melodies, all notes and no words ; this I was told was the 
case, but the negro is far more musical. While singing they also danced, 
that is, jumped up and down in the same place ; after having thus danced 
and sung and drummed and beaten on an instrument of two sticks, they all 
gave a great flourish of instruments and loud halloos as a grand finale. 
These shouts reminded me very much of the screech and shudder usually 
evolved on jumping into an ice cold bath. 

The first performance was followed by several others of the like character 
intermingled with occasional speeches — declarations of what wonders the 
orator had done in war, or perhaps intended doing. These were received 
with a true mihtary salute by the beating of drums and loud hallooing. 
Another ceremony was the presentation of a calico shirt to one of the 
leaders, and of a little tobacco and A-ermilion to the party ; something ol 
this kind is always expected. Why is it that all uncivilized nations are so 
fond of the cry " give — give." This was the first Indian dance I had seen 
and I confess I looked upon it as on some of those horrible rites of heathen 
lands, merely as a curiosity, not with delight. But all these customs are 
calculated to suggest many philosophical reflections as they indicate more 
than appear at first sight. The philosophy of costume is w^ell worthy of 
study. The river is rising rapidly this evening and a fine rain falling. 

Sunday, May 26. — After tea I took a short walk with Mr. Hodgekiss, and 
as we passed through the lodge I remarked to him that we ought to go armed 
with clubs to keep off the dogs which w^re then exhibiting a threatening 
attitude. He replied that in a Crow village it would be impossible for 
us to pass with safety as we were then doing, but would have to go wrapped 
in a robe as an Indian, and under the guidance of one, and even then, clubs 
would hardly protect us from the hordes of savage dogs that would assail us. 
The river still continues to rise, and is already in good navigable order, 
so that W'e look for the boat in about two weeks. It cleared oif last night 
aud we have had a bright sun for the most of the day ; but about sunset dark 
clouds overspread the sky and there w^as every appearace of a rainy night. 

Monday, May 27. — This has been a day of rain and mud, but in the 
evening it has cleared off beautifully. Spent the day in reading and writing. 
Made out this afternoon a tabular view of the Sioux nation on the Missouri, 
so as to exhibit their numbers, divisions and locahties. This has been exe- 
cuted under the inspection of Mr. Gilpin, who has been in this country for 
ten years, and is good authority on this subject ; his account of the numbers 
of the different tribes was confirmed by six or eight Indians of authority 
W'ho were in his room at the time. 

Hodgekiss mentioned a singular fact this evening, namely, that the spring 
which is the head of the Yellowstone, gushes out in a strong stream of ex- 
cellent and very cold water, and that about thirty yards from the source it 



101 [ 1 ] 

is divided by a large rock into two parts, one of which forms the Yellow- 
stone River, and the other the Lewis Fork of the Columbia. He says the 
elk are far more numerous on the Yellowstone than we suppose — that in 
one place the Indians have made quite a substantial fort from their horns 
piled together, and that in another place quite a large hill has been formed 
by the number of these horns collected together. 

I have for some time intended giving a description of Fort Pierre Chou- 
teau and its environs, but have postponed it from day to day for no good 
reason. A person coming up the country on the other side of the river 
has his first view of it about half a mile below, and it then presents a most 
beautiful sight. 

The main object in the picture is the fort itself, having a white appearance, 
lying four-square, surrounded by a square palisade wall fifteen feet high and 
three-hundred feet on each side, with bastions at the North, West and South 
East corners ; then the Indian lodges are seen around the fort ; by their 
irregularity of position, their conical shape and varied colors, giving life and 
a picturesque air to the scene ; and for a couple of miles below the fort and 
between it and the bluffs, the whole plain is dotted with horses grazing 
and moving leisurely about, while the bold bluffs a mile west of the fort 
affords a fine back-ground for the picture. The shores immediately oppo- 
site the fort are high bluffs almost from the water's edge, and with their 
steep barren sandy sides, look as if determined to wrap themselves up for- 
ever in the dignity of their own sterility. The main channel runs along this 
shore, althought at present there is a probability that the boat will be able 
to land at the fort. 

The fort is situated on a beautiful piece of bottom land which extends for 
some miles along the bank of the river, and is skirted l)y a range of blutf 
hills on the West, by which you rise to the rolling prairie beyond. The 
bottom land affords fine pasture and has a beautiful appearance when the 
grass and flowers are out on it ; butthe company pasture their horses on the 
Bad River about eight miles from the fort, as the Indians always have so 
many horses here. 

On entering the fort two large gates are seen, over each of which there 
is a large picture intending to represent scenes of interest to the Indian ; we 
shall enter by the one to the left, as the other leads to the stable-yard, and 
we shall choose a dry day for our visit, as on any other our shoes wall suffer 
very much from the mud. A number of Indians, men and women, with 
their blankets wrapped around them, with their bare legs, painted faces and 
curiously ornamented heads, will probably be lounging in perfect listless- 
ness about the gate. The main building stands opposite the gate and oc- 
cupying nearly the whole length of that side, with a porch along its entire 
front, windows in the roof and a bell on the top, ant! above it the old weather 
cock, looking for all the world, like a Dutch tavern. The main building 
contains the mess hall, kitchen and rooms for the traders; to the right of 
it you see a neat log house wuth a pleasant little portico in front, and oil 
painted window blinds — that is the boujier or boss' house, and the long one 
storied building painted red, and occupying almost the whole of the North 
side of the fort, is the store and warehouse where the goods and robes are 
kept. To your immediate right as you enter the gate are the blacksmith's 
shop and several rooms for the men, and to your left is a small building con- 
taining the carpenter shop and further accommo(hitions for the men ; iie;irly 
the whole south side is occupied by a low buikling divided into seven rooms, 



[ 1 ] 102 

occupied by the laborers and traders. These low houses are covered with 
dirt roofs ; none of the houses are built against the fort walls, but behind 
them is a space of about twenty-five feet, and this is occupied in various 
ways. The north side has a house for the deposit of harness and implements 
of labor — the powder-house, milk-house for quite a good dairy — the stable 
and stable-yard ; the south side has two large buildings for corn, meat, skins, 
&c., while the south west corner is occupied by the office, a one-story build- 
ing ranging with the main building, and having behind it a house occupied 
by one of the clerks, and a yard in which the feathered tribe live and lay 
eggs. This arrangement of the buildings leaves quite a large square in the 
centre, from the middle of which generally rises a tall flagstaff, but at pres- 
ent there is none — the last was blown down by the wind. 

The Fort Pierre grave yard lies about a quarter of a mile south of the 
fort ; it is a square piece of ground which has been well fenced in but not 
ornamented in any way ; it contains the bodies of a number of dead, both 
Indians and Whites : the latter are in the o-round and their o-raves are marked 
with wooden crosses, or with tombstones recording their names and dates of 
their death. The Indians however have followed their own customs in dis- 
posing of their dead, which is to place them on a scaffold about eight or ten 
feet from the ground. As you approach the yard coming from the fort, you 
see elevated on a scaffold supported by rough willow poles and now half 
broken down, a confused pile of old boxes of various lengths — old trunks 
and pieces of blankets hanging out. These may seem strange things for 
a grave yard, but these old boxes contain the bodies of dead Indians : they 
were originally placed on a good scaffold and had piles of blankets wrapped 
around them, but the scaffold has broken down from exposure to weather 
and weight of the bodies, which appear to have been heaped on without 
order of any kind. If you look over the fence to the left of this scaffold, 
you will see on the ground one of these boxes which has probably fallen 
down and broken open : and there the bones lay exposed, except the skull 
w^hich perhaps has been buried by some friend of the deceased ; if you look 
a little more closely you will see lying with the bones, a dark looking 
object about three inches broad and perhaps fifteen long, tied around with 
a string : this is some tobacco given to the dead to smoke in the other 
world ; they always place with their dead almost every article of common 
use, for their benefit in the other world : blankets, sometimes as many as 
twenty, the best the parties can afford — tobacco, sugar, coffee, molasses, 
kettles of mush and other things of use. These remain undisturbed until 
they decay, or are destroyed by the weather or wolves. On the east side 
is a scaffold put up a few months since ; the box is a rough one, daubed 
with black paint, and is surrounded by several old trunks, that were the 
property of the old squaw who rests within. On the opposite side is 
another scaffold, on which is placed the body of a man who died not many 
months since : you can see the scarlet blanket through the large cracks in 
this rude coffin. It appears to me, that this method of burial originated 
in a desire to protect the bodies from the wolves, more than in any of their 
religious opinions : they frequently bury the bones, after the flesh has 
decayed entirely. On a large tree, a little above the fort, is a body which 
must have a great pile of blankets on it, from the size. 

Tuesday, May 28. — This morning arose early and found the day to be 
clear, with a delightful, bracing air : after breakfast went up the river about 
a mile, intending to cross in the flat, with some Indians going after buffalo, 



103 [ 1 ] 

but they went in such numbers, and with so many horses, that I declined, 
and came back. Spent an hour in writing, and then partook of some real 
Baltimore oysters ; they were a year old, however, but tasted better than 
I expected. 

After dinner started with M'Kenzie up the river ; he shot at a prairie 
squirrel andmissed ; we then went on to a cooley, in which there was a 
large rock of red sand stone, seen frequently in the prairies below this, 
about five feet each way, and appears to be on the surface only. I had 
no hammer and could not bring away a specimen ; the side of the hill had 
many stones in it as large as a half bushel measure, but they were nearer a 
limestone in appearance. I got in this little valley, specimens of five or six 
plants seen for the first time. After returning, I spent an hour in putting 
dried specimens in the herbarium. 

I received some information about the Indians, of which the following 
is the substance. The Sioux nation has no general council, but each tribe 
and band determines its own aifairs. These bands have some bond of 
common interest analogous to the ties of our secret societies ; the Crow- 
Feather-in-Cap band are pledged to protect each others wives — to 
refrain from violating them, and if the wife of one of their number is stolen 
by another of their number, she is returned, the band either paying the thief 
for returning the stolen property, or forcing him to do it whether he will 
or not. Should a wife be violated, they are bound to aid the injured 
brother, in revenging his wrong. These bands have societies analogous to 
the Orders, Divisions, &c., of our secret societies, in all parts of the Sioux 
nation, and a stranger always finds friends amongst those of his own band. 
One reason why this band are thus pledged, is that so many quarrels arise 
because of the women ; that say that in any camp, if a difficulty occurs, in 
almost every case a woman is the cause. 

The Strong Heart band is pledged to protect each other in their horses ; 
should a Strong Heart from a distance, steal some horses, and they be 
claimed by a brother Strong Heart, his fellows would tell him that he must 
give them up, or they would give the robljed man some of their own horses, 
regarding it as the greatest disgrace to themselves, to allow him to go 
away on foot. And thus, I suppose, that all these bands have some com- 
mon object that unites them together ; and here we have the origin of this 
system of banding ; in the absence of law it takes the place of our system 
of justice. The only law among the savage tribes is that of force ; if a 
man is injured, he must himself punish the offender, but in most cases, to 
do this, he must be supported by others, and who so proper for this as his 
brother or brother-in-law ? And thus, foi- mutual protection, kindred are 
forced to unite in bands. 

To give me some idea of their religion, I may state that they pray to the 
Great Spirit on any occasion when they feel the need of his aid, and then 
promise a sacrifide of cloth, or a feast of dogs to him. Thus, a man is 
struck by a ball that only sticks in his flesh, producing a slight wound ; 
from this circumstance he fancies that he is not to be killed by a ball ; he 
holds it up and offers a prayer to the Great Spirit, thus: " Oh, thou Great 
Spirit, I believe that I am not to be killed by a ball, and, as a proof of 
that belief, I will wear this ball constantly, and will give to you, exposed 
to the sun and air till they rot, some blankets and tobacco ; should I lose 
this ball from around my neck, then I believe that the next one will kill 
me." This ball is thenceforth worn as his "medicine," and it is prayed 



[ 1 ] 104 

to and guarded with the most scrupulous care ; it is therefore more than a 
charm, having the addition of the element of reverence and worship. 
The sacrifices of hlankets, &c., are exposed on a tree or in the prairie, 
till destroyed. In battle, when they feel themselves in great danger, like 
the warriors of old, they stop, and with outstretched arm, they pray to the 
Great Spirit, and promise a sacrifice if they have success, and are careful to 
fulfil their promise. But they have no idea of future reward and punish- 
ment ; all are to be happy in the other world. They know of no moral 
relation to God ; his will, as a standard of right and wrong, is never heeded, 
but like the Greeks and Romans, they pray for his favor in their worst 
deeds. 

One of the most singular things amongst their customs is the relation 
held by a man to the parents of his wife ; he never names them, speaks to 
them, nor looks his mother-in-law in the face, no matter how long they 
may live together ; he is " ashamed" and thinks he shows them the highest 
respect by acting so ; he gets the best lodge, and is bound to supply the old 
people with meat until he has a family. The young couple occupy the large 
lodge, while the old folks live in the small one behind them, and should 
they accidentally meet, they hide their faces in some way. All his deal- 
ings with the old people are through his wife. This treatment of his new 
parents is the highest test of good breeding among them, and the man is 
exceedingly ill-bred who violates this custom. The husband never men- 
tions his wife's name, but in speaking to her uses the word " fcAe," which 
good interpreters say they cannot translate ; it is not confined to this use, 
but is addressed also to a man when speaknig to him, in speaking of his 
wife. If she have children, he speaks of her as this boy's, or this girl's 
mother, naming the child. The philosophy of this custom does not occur 
to me, but it is a very important fact, in the attempt to ascertain the ruling 
principles that make the savage to differ from the white man. What a 
contrast to the happy circle of friends to which a marriage often mtro- 
duces a man amongst us. Indians despise the female sex ; say that 
woman was made only for doing man's drudgery, and for the gratification 
of his grossest passion ; they say that whites ought not to have women, 
because they don't know how to use them — thank God we do not, in 
their sense. How grateful we should feel to the Bible for the great social 
happiness it has diffused over the world. I think that Bancroft says the 
Indian language contains no word for the abstract ftither — that he always 
says my father or your father, &c. My brother says that it is not so in 
any Indian language that he is acquainted with. 

Wednesday, May 29. — I forgot to mention yesterday, how the ceremony 
of sending and smoking the pipe was conducted. The different bands of 
Sioux are not bound to take up arms in defence of one another ; when there- 
fore, any band finds itself under the necessity of calling in the aid of others, 
it pays thein, and the negotiation is carried on somewhat in this way : The 
band wishing aid, collects in solemn council, and the pipe and tobacco are 
placed in the centre ; having no written language, of course the message 
must be conveyed verbally, and the messenger who has been chosen is in 
the council. They all make their speeches in his presence, so that he may 
know what to repeat ; they then, with solemn ceremony, bind up the 
tobacco in a piece of skin, tie it in a particular manner, and paint it with 
blue earth and vermilion. The pipe and tobacco are then put into the 
hands of the messenger to be borne to the tribe to which he is sent. Having 



105 [ 1 ] 

arrived at their village, a council of the braves is held to hear his message, 
and to determine whether they will open and smoke his tobacco. He makes 
his speech, states the wrongs suffered by his tribe, tells the number of 
blankets, horses, and robes that will be paid them for their services, and 
awaits their answer. If they determine to accept his offer, the tobacco is 
opened and smoked ; they are then bound by the strongest tics to meet 
at the rendezvous, and to fulfil their engagements ; if they foil so to do, they 
are scorned and derided by the other tribes. On their arrival at the ap- 
pointed place, the articles promised, are handed over to the partisnas or 
leaders of the different bands in solemn council, and as there will not be 
enough for every one, the leader, if he is generous, will give these things to 
those of his band who are poor and have none. On the contrary, should 
they decline the offer of this ambassador, his tobacco and pipe are returned 
to him unopened, and he is dismissed with some present. 

The Sioux language is said to be as flexible as our own, having many 
diff'erent forms for expressing the same idea. They have inflexions of 
nouns and verbs, but no genders ; it is said to be a more difficult language 
to acquire, than either the Blackfoot or Crow tongue. Every day seems to 
develope something interesting relative to the Indians, and a careful ob- 
server could, in a year or two, collect a volume of valuable facts relative to 
their habits and languages. 

Thursday, May 30. — This morning at breakfast, I was glad to learn 
that the carts from the Cheyenne Indians were in sight, and soon afterward 
was relieved of a good deal of anxiety by seeing them unload my specimens 
from the Bad Lands. They all came safely, except some of the bags, which 
had been torn by wolves which had opened the cache, eaten up all the par- 
fleche, and opened the bags in search of something more palatable, but the 
unkind bags gave them stones when they asked for meat. I think a number 
of the small pieces of petrified wood were lost. A part of the morning was 
passed in packing the specimens in boxes, and soon I had the pleasure of 
seeing one large box well filled, marked T. A. Culbertson ; another box is 
also nearly full. Afterwards I prepared a long report to Professor Baird. 
While engaged in writing it, I heard a gun fired in the yard, and a noise as 
if a large number of persons had arrived. 

On going to the window, I saw a large band of Indians on horseback, pre- 
ceded by several on foot, bearing two flags — the stars and stripes ; it was 
a band of the Blackfeet tribe of Sioux. They had just arrived with about 
fifty lodges, and, while squaws were putting up these, the "Braves" come 
to announce themselves. They dismounted and entered the reception room 
with a friendly shake of the hand to most of the whites present. A feast 
was ordered for them. In the middle of the room were placed four (five gal- 
lon) kettles, filled with most tempting mush, and beside these, to keep them 
in countenance, were two others, equally large, filled with equally tempting 
coffee, already sweetened, while on the floor were fifty large hard crackers, 
(pilot bread) and about one-hundred plugs of very common tobacco. The 
Indians were all around the room on chairs, if they could get them, while 
those in the middle sat on the floor, enjoying the most happy anticipations. 
They had no meat in their camps and had been almost starving for some time. 
I entered and placed myself full length on a bed beside Gilpin, who was 
master of the feast. While the company were detained, waiting for the ar- 
rival of one of the young men, I took observations ; and first, I noticed that 
they had all the gravity of countenance usually exhibited by hungry men of 



[ 1 ] 106 

all countries, while waiting for their dinners ; there was no laughing or jest- 
ing unbecoming the serious business before them, but the various pipes were 
passed round in profound silence. They were all in full dress, presenting an 
amusing mixture of savage and civilized costumes ; many of them had fur 
caps, decorated with handsome plumes of the ostrich feathers, dyed red ; 
others had on the much coveted soldier coat, and all wore highly orna- 
mented Indian dress. There was a most agreeable variety of faces, exhi- 
biting all degrees, from that of the stern old brave to the light-hearted 
daring young scalp taker. There were several who had an amiable and 
intellectual expression of countenance ; they were tall, lightly framed, and 
with the features of the face delicate and long. Among these were four 
brothers, noble-hearted fellows, the sons of an old man, whose bones I hope 
to carry away with me. 

These were the Indians that Gilpin traded with, and he said they were 
all strongly attached to him — that they are most excellent men, although 
they certainly bear a bad name with the other traders. He said that the 
young braves of noble families despise a mean action, such as not paying for 
anything a trader might advance them on credit — that they would cast it up 
as a reproach to any one who should fail in so doing. One of them who 
sat near recognized me as a brother of Alexander ; he asked Gilpin if 
I was not, and then gave me a friendly shake of the hand. After all were 
in, and each had his pan, (they provide their own utensils for eating here,) 
this one arose, shook hands with Gilpin, myself and the Little Bear, a chief 
of another tribe, and made a short speech, returning thanks for the feast, 
&c. When he closed, an old pale-fliced warrior came forward, shook hands 
with us, and remaining on his feet began a speech. "Ah," said Gilpin, 
" that old fellow can speak, he is a second John Q.Adams. " I regarded 
him attentively ; he was of the common height, broad shouldered, with an 
expansive forehead, and that style of prominent and large features which 
indicates intellect and sternness. He stood erect, with his left hand holding 
his blanket, and with his right making gestures continually. Never did I 
listen to a more ready flow of language, or to a more self composed, dig- 
nified speaker, whether he addressed us or turned to the Indians on either 
side of him. His speech was also a complimentary one, and was short, as 
the dinner was getting cold. He concluded, and two young men took the 
office of waiters ; they had no light task, and before they got through had 
burnt their fingers, and made the sweat roll from their faces. It was 
pleasing to observe the quiet and decorum throughout the whole scene ; 
each one waited patiently until his turn came, and then modestly received 
his cracker, meat or coffee. The Little Bear, the old man and an invited 
guest, had no dish, and when the coffee was being served out, a large tin 
mug was got for him ; the young man who was serving, instead of passing 
on, waited until the mug was brought, and then gave the old man a treble 
portion, being a very pleasing instance of politeness and respect. As they 
drank their coffee nearly every one, especially the old man, made their 
compliments to us, as we do in drinking wine. The feast went on cheer- 
fully, and towards the conclusion, our old man started a song, or rather a 
howl of thanks, which was caught up and echod by several. Gilpin tells 
me that these songs have only an occasional word and that it is the same 
with nearly all their songs. The tobacco was then distributed, two plugs 
being given to each ; but the young men, being able to kill buffalo and buy 
tobacco, gave their portion to some of their friends too old for the hunt. I 



107 [ 1 ] 

noticed quite a number passing their pans, well filled "with mush, to their 
squaws who were standing about the door, which indicated generous and 
kind feeling. This was not an act of impoliteness, but just the reverse 
according to Indian etiquette, for with them it is very impolite not to 
eat all that is given at a feast — you must eat or carry away. Soon 
after, the parties dispersed and went to their lodges, to feast again most 
probably. 

On asking at what age young men were allowed to attend these feasts, I 
was told that they went to those given by whites at all ages, but that they 
must gain admittance to the feasts among themselves in one of three ways — 
by stealing a great many horses, by giving a great deal to the poor, or by 
bringing in the scalps of a great many warriors. The men who appeared 
so peaceable this afternoon were all ready to kill their fellows, on any 
jirovocation, and, doubtless, every man of them had killed more than one. 
They are regarded at the fort as the worst of all the tribes, and are blamed 
for killing cattle every time they come. They have traded a large number 
of robes this afternoon, and nearly all for eatables, as they were starving ; 
they want to trade for meat, but Alexander will not do this, on any consid- 
eration, for fear of starving himself. 

Oh ! for the jaw bone of an ass to murder these miserable Indian dogs ; 
just now, as at every few minutes during the day and night they are howl- 
ing like a set of fiends ; they have not a decent bark like our well-bred 
American dogs, but it is howl I howl!! howl!!! everlastingly — but after 
all it is their nature, for they are more wolf than dog. 

Recipe for making dried Plums. — It is late, but I must note .a new 
way, or rather the Indian way of drying plums, for the benefit of our 
economical housewives. When a lady wishes to preserve her plums, 
which grow here abundantly, she gathers them, invites her neighbors, and 
they spend the afternoon sociably in sucking out the plum stones, saving the 
skins, which are carefully put away and dried, and when cooked with the 
scrapings of a buffalo skin, are esteemed a most rare dish. This is worthy 
a place amongst " Miss Leslie's Thousand and one Receipts." 

Friday, May "31. — This morning was spent in hunting antelope with 
M'Kenzie ; we rode about ten miles over the hills bordering the Missouri, 
but did not get any game. The few antelopes that we saw were very wdld, 
and although M'Kenzie shot twice, the animals were too far off. A wolf 
was seen scampering along, but at such a distance that we could get no 
chance I'or a shot. It appears as if I were to get no game at all here ; the 
best marksmen about the fort have tried to get wolves, antelope and prairie 
dogs, but thus far without success. I have tried to get rabbits, and have 
engaged several young Indians to bring me some, but none have yet come. 
About two o'clock this afternoon, Gilpin, Alexander and myself w^ent to a 
feast in the village, given by one of the tribe which ariived yesterday. On 
entering the lodge, we found but few assembled. Opposite the door or place 
of entrance, through which we passed by stooping and dragging ourselves 
in, was placed a good robe for our seat, and in honor of the occasion, a 
small square box containing a flag. In a short time the whole company 
had assembled, consisting of perhaps twenty persons. An old man, who 
came in last, returned thanks to the host for his hospitality, and then each 
of the company folio weil in turn, all using the same form except the title by 
which they acklressed him : thus — " brother-in-law, I thank you for the 
feast," — " cousin, I thank you, &c." — " uncle, I thank you, ,(Scc." Then 



[1 ] 



108 



the host gave the hand of friendship to the whites present, and made a 
short speech, thankmg us for our company, and making some inquiries 
concerning them ; to these M'Kenzie replied, and then the master of 
ceremonies began to help the food, each one having provided his own dish. 
The mess, consisting of two dogs, of reverend age and valuable services, 
judging from appearances, had been boiled in a large copper kettle and was 
served out in very generous shares, beginning with us, and going around to 
complete the circle. I noticed that the man who sat at Gilpin's right was 
not served, nor had he a pan — this seemed very strange, as he was the one 
who had made the speech to us, and appeared to be a prominent personage. 
On inquiring the reason, I was told that he was the host. " The host," 
said I, " and don't he eat ?" " No, etiquette requires that he shall not 
partake at all of the feast." Nor did he serve it out, but simply sat as a 
mere looker on. A rib was given each of us, and having tasted it, the cus- 
tom of carrying away what we could not eat, was a relief to us, and we left, 
carrying with us our ribs. There was a good deal of conversation, during 
which one of the old men spoke of their custom of eating dogs, and said 
that they regarded dogs as we do cattle. And it is partly true ; they are of 
great service to them, being much used as pack animals, so that a dog feast 
is really an expensive one and a great compliment. But I was surprised to 
learn that this custom does not extend to the mountain Indians, who eat 
them only when starving. Hodgekiss tells me that a fat pup, well boiled, 
and the water changed several times, and then allowed to cool, is a delicious 
dish, and has no dog taste about it. 

Before one of the lodges near where the feast was held, was the body of 
a little girl who had died yesterday ; it was wrapped in a blue blanket, and 
was to be placed on the scaffold as soon as the coffin should be finished. I 
did not see the ceremony of conveying it to the tomb, or rather, to its rest- 
ing place, but it was probaaly done in a very simple manner, as I was told 
that the burying of the dead, except braves, is left principally to the 
squaws. Blankets and food are placed on the scaffold for their use in the 
other world ; the family of the deceased mourn very much, and if others aid 
them in this sad work, they expect pay and are sure to get it. 

Wednesday, June 5. — This afternoon I am on the Missouri, above Fort 
Pierre, and again at leisure to write as usual. On Monday evening it rained 
very heavily, and in the midst of this pouring down, an Indian arrived and 
stated that the steamboat was but a few miles down the river ; this an- 
nouncement electrified the whole establishment, and there were various 
opinions as to the hour she might be expected. At length we all settled 
down in the belief that she certainly could not come that night, but that 
morning would bring her. About this time Gilpin brought me a prairie dog 
an Indian had killed with a stick ; the skin was not injured in the least, 
and the hair was in excellent order, the old coat having been shed so recently. 
I determined to take both skeleton and skin, as the specimens are so rare. 
An Indian who happened to be in the room soon took off the skin, and I 
began to cut the meat form the bones, but it turned out to be a long job. 
At length the bones were cleaned in tolerably good order, and after various 
efforts the skin has at length been stuffed so as to make a fine specimen. 
I may think myself fortunate in having thus secured a prairie dog ; I 
am told that Audubon failed in getting one, and Dr. Evans told me that 
he had not secured a specimen last summer, as the skins of three he had 
taken spoiled. 



109 [ 1 ] 

Tuesday morning opened rather gloomy, but in spite of mud on the earth 
and clouds in the sky, all preparation was made for the arrival of the boat, 
and every one was on the look-out to get the first peep. At length, about 
half-past one o'clock, the smoke was discovered as the boat began to round 
the point below the fort ; in about half an hour after, she hove in sight, and 
' before very long, we had the pleasure of boarding the El Passo, as she lay 
just below the fort. Salutes were fired on the boat and at the fort alternately, 
from the time she appeared in sight until her landing, and there was a great 
sratherinff of Indians and Whites to welcome her. A. recog-nized on the hur- 
ricane deck, his friend Dr. Evans, of last summer, and soon I had the pleasure 
of making his acquaintance. He had visited the Mauvaise Terre last summer, 
and had made quite a collection there ; this, of course, was a bond of sym- 
pathy between us ; it was a real gratification for me to converse with an in- 
telligent man on the subject of the Bad Lands. He was very free, and we 
soon understood each other. 

The substance of our several conversations was that we were both disap- 
pointed in the appearance of the Bad Lands, in the number of petrifactions 
found, and in the number of localities when found. He says he believes they 
are scarcely to be obtained in any other place than the locality of the turtles 
near Bear river, visited by me. Our estimate of their extent was the same, 
namely — thirty by sixty miles ; he says that white earth now runs through 
the whole length of them. Before seeing him I had felt very much disap- 
pointed about my collection, fearing that it would be of little value ; but was 
greatly relieved to hear him say that such had been his feelings before 
reaching the States, but that he was agreeably disappointed to find that his 
small collections had excited a great deal of interest in all who saw them, 
and he predicted a like fiivorable reception for mine. The letter I had 
Avritten to Professor Baird was submitted to his inspection, as I wished to 
have his opinion of what I said ; he had attentively read through the six 
pages, and complimented me on the accuracy of what I had there stated. 
"There was no alteration that he would suggest," though he gave me a 
caution I readily acted on, which was not to state any thing except on my 
own personal observation, not depending even on the best authority, " for," 
said he " this may appear under the sanction of a well known name, and 
may afterwards be discovered to be a most ridiculous error. I mentioned 
to him that I thought, from Lieutenant Lynch's description, that similar 
formations abounded along the Jordan ; he examined the account in his 
book, to which I have before particularly referred, and coincided in my 
opinion, stating that he supposed that such was probably the case. That 
point will be more particularly examined by those to whom we make 
our reports. The formation in the Bad Lands is what is called the 
tertiary. 

Thursday, June 6. — Last night the boat laid up about dark, as it would 
be impossible to travel on this river at night. We must have been off very 
early, as when I got up about four o'clock, we were under way, and some 
distance from our starting place. We stopped before breakfast for fuel, 
the procuring of which here is not like that in the States ; there are here no 
wood-yards, with the wood all cut and in proper order, but whenever a lot of 
dry timber appears, if the boat needs it, she puts ashore, and all hands fall to 
work cutting and carrying on board ; with the number of hands on board, it 
takes very little time. I landed and tramped about in the wet weeds, to look 
for botanical specimens, and got quite a number, although not in flower. Soon 



[1] 



110 



afterwards we entered the Great Bend, into which the Shayen (Chenenne,) 
river empties ; it is about five miles across, and twenty around by the river. 
Just below this bend, while we were wooding, six Mackinaw boats belong- 
ing to the opposition company, and from the upper country came in sight, 
and passed down ; they appeared to be lightly laden, and were estimated to 
have about thirteen hunch'ed packs of robes aboard. The slate formation 
appeared on the banks just above this. About twelve o'clock we passed 
the mouth of the Shayen, and stopped to wood just above it ; it appeared to 
be a small stream. No specimens gathered there. Afterwards we were 
detained on a sand bar for an hour or two, but found it to be no annoy- 
ance, since I was engaged for a part of the morning in putting some speci- 
mens in the herbarium. 

We are accustomed to speak of the Indian as the Red Men of the 
forest ; this was true once, when the Eastern states were peopled by them, 
but now they are the Red Men of the Prairie. This, of such vast extent, 
is almost entirely destitute of timber, at least there is nothing that would be 
called forest, except at some places along the Missouri. To-day we have 
seen very little timber ; most of the banks are destitute of it entirely, except 
the willow ; occasionally a point is seen well timbered with young cotton 
wood. ■ I have been told that they go from Fort Pierre, one hundred miles 
above, to get timber for their boats and other purposes. 

The banks to-day have been bluffs, sometimes abruptly descending to the 
water's edge, and at other times having a beautiful intervening bottom. It 
appears to rae that although the hills look so barren, the river is more beau- 
tiful than the Ohio, probably because of the green foliage of the w-illows 
skirting the banks, and covering many of the islands. I have several times 
admired the fine grass on the islands at a distance, but the grass has turned 
to willows on a near approach. These are islands newly formed from sand 
bars, and they are soon covered with a growth of young willows ; this is 
very good for cattle and horses, and often is their only food. 

I found my watch to be just one hour behind the watches from St. Louis. 
This led to some conversation with Mr. Picotte about the difference of time 
at the two places. Fort Pierre is only about ten degrees west of St. Louis, 
which would make forty minutes difference in time. The latitude of St. 
Louis is nearly thirty-eight degrees, forty-five minutes ; that of Fort Pierre, 
forty-four degrees, twenty minutes, making it five degrees thirty-five 
minutes further north than the former, and four degrees twenty minutes 
north of Chambersburg. 

I am told in reply to my questions on the subject, that the water of the 
river might safely be said to move with a velocity of from four to seven 
miles per hour, depending upon the stage of water. This corresponds very 
well with Col. Tilton's account. 

Friday, June 7 — Six o^ clock A. M. — Last night w^e were visited by 
an unusually severe thunder storm, but were not injured by it. The sun 
rose beautiful and clear this morning, and promises a warm day. We are 
within ten or fifteen miles of the Little Shayen now, which comes in from 
the west side of the Missouri. The banks this morning, and for several 
hours at the close of last evening exhibited steep, irregular bluffs, and slate 
formation on the w^estern bank, and beautiful prairie bottoms, with gently 
ascending bluffs on the east side. The strata of slate are generally hori- 
zontal. Went ashore last night expecting to get some botanical speci- 
mens, but found none ; a plant which I had got at the last wooding place, 



Ill [ 1 ] 

very much like the fox corn of my Virginia collection, was abundant. 
We have cut green ash timber, which the captain says is better than the 
dry Avood we have been getting before. No locality of fossil specimens 
has been seen, or rather we have landed at no such place, although I have 
seen some that appeared worthy of an examination. 

Half-past nine A. M. — The boat is now wooding on the western shore, 
not far above the mouth of the Little Shayen ; the fuel is cotton wood, 
that has been killed by the fire, I would judge. Vegetation is flourishing, 
but flowers scarce ; got one new specimen and saw several old ones ; the 
purple violet must have abounded here, as the beds were numerous, and I 
took one merely as a remembrance of this upper country. Saw several frogs, 
but was able to secure but one of the smaller kind ; have as yet seen no 
snakes ; saw some mushrooms. Slate still continues to appear on the 
western bank. 

This is certainly the most agreeable traveling I ever experienced ; the air 
is delightful — the shores and trees quite green — only three of us on board, 
besides the Captain, who are really companions ; myself, the only " dis- 
tincruished" stranser, livinc on the best, and treated with the most o-enerous 
kindness and respect — all these thmgs combme to render the trip as de- 
lightful as possible. I can never forget the kindness that has afforded me 
this pleasure. The musquitoes, however, are showing the cloven foot ; 
they have made sundry violent attacks on my person, with malice afore- 
thought, and intent of blood-drawing, and I have murdered numbers in 
pure self defence. 

We have just passed the mouth of the river marked Sawarcana on the 
map ; its most common name here is the Moreau, so called from an old 
Frenchman who probably lived on it once. It is a small stream, although 
larger than most others here. The banks of the Missouri for some miles 
below are gently ascending hills with round tops, and they are covered with 
short grass, enough, however, to give them a very pleasing appearance. 
The opposite bank is less hilly, but equally beautiful, and timber rare on 
both of them. I do not feel as persons generally expect to feel when tra- 
veling in a wild country, inhabited only by savages, nor have I so felt, at 
any period of my traveling on the prairies, with very few exceptions. The 
reason of this has frequently appeared to be the almost entire absence of 
forests ; on the prairies, early in the season, one sees large tracts of land 
covere(l with yellow grass that readily suggests the grain fields of his home ; 
the lonely appearance of the prairie as the grass comes up reminds one of 
the green pastures of home, and one almost feels as if the farm house was 
just over the hill. It was hard to realize that the beautiful fields we 
saw to-day were not the fields of a cultivated tarm. Just where we 
are the eastern side exhibits an abrupt bank, thirty feet high, composed 
of slate. 

Saturday, June 8 — Seven o'clock A. .M.— Last evening 1 exhibited my 
tabular view of the Sioux nation to Mr. Picotte for examination, and he pro- 
nounced it to be correct, except that the estimate of souls to each lodge is 
too small ; he feels sure that eight or ten is the correct average for each 
lodge, and his opinion is worthy of regard. 

When we landed I examined a bluff" bank to confirm an opinion 1 had 
formed that certain flowers seen along the bank were the same as some about 
Fort Pierre, and I found myself correct. Alexander found a buffalo skeleton 
wanting very few of the bones, and, as it was probably, the most perfect one 



[1] 



112 



that we would find, I determined to bring it on board. This morning, very- 
early, we met six Mackinaw boats, belonging to the company, from the 
Yellowstone, the Blackfeet and Crow forts. They had about sixteen-hun- 
dred packs, and were under the charge of Maj . Hamilton. We had encamped 
only about two miles from them last night. Some of the men went out to 
hunt yesterday, aud succeeded in frightening quite a number of elk, but got 
none. They are plenty in the young willows on the sand bars, and along 
the banks. We passed the mouth of the Grand River before breakfast. I 
have just been called out to see the skin of a buifalo calf that is indeed a 
singular thing ; It has two separate heads, the bodies being joined near the 
tail ; it has six feet and two tails, and has plenty of hair on it. It was taken 
from a cow in the Blackfeet country. It has been used by the Indians for a 
" medicine," and is not well enough preserved to be taken down. Banks not 
so steep as yesterday. 

Eleven 0^ clock. — We have just been landing for wood ; the first place 
was at a watering house of one of the traders of this company — he fur- 
nished us some wood but not enough. We then went about a quarter of a 
mile up the river, to a watering house of the opposition, and from that still 
higher to a patch of timber where we hoped to procure ash, though elm 
abounded most ; we found ash box-elder, and sugar maple. The trading 
houses are built of rough logs and are intended but for one winter ; they 
are built wherever a party of Indians happens to locate for the hunting 
season, and traders are sent out with an equipment according to the prospect 
for robes ; they say "an outfit to trade ten, twenty, forty, one-hundred, &c., 
packs." Each pack contains ten robes. Mr. Picotte told me that about 
one-hundred thousand robes would go to St. Louis this season from all the 
tradei'S in the country ; that the Indians and others would use or destroy 
three times that number, probably, as each Indian must have two robes for 
his wearing apparel every year, besides those for a new lodge and other pur- 
poses, so that, by the calculation of an old trader, probal3ly four hundred 
thousand buffalo are destroyed annually. 

Six o'' clock. — We have just taken our tea, and are wooding on the east 
side of the river ; the trees appear to have been torn down, or had their 
tops torn off by a hurricane ; they are very dry and give us good wood. 
Timber has been more abundant and better to-day than before ; we got a 
large lot of ash early in the afternoon. At the landing I gathered some 
violets of a species different from any before seen. This has been a plea- 
sant day again, and there is the promise of another one to-morrow. 

How different does Saturday evening appear here from what it does in 
the east ; there one is reminded that the next day will be the Sabbath — the 
day for rest and spiritual enjoyments, and he feels the satisfaction of having 
reached another period in his labor. He can stop and look back, or he can 
look forward and feel satisfied : but here, to-morrow will bring the same 
routine of travel and work. 

Sunday, June 9. — This is another clear and bright morning ; we are 
now ploughing our way not many miles below the Cannon Ball river, 
between beautiful banks, covered with fine grass. For the last twenty- 
four hours I have seen but little of that abrupt and very high bluff bank of 
slate and tertiary formation noticed before ; the hills have been a little dis- 
tance from the water and of gentle ascent, and the timber has been more 
abundant. One of the pilots killed a deer last evening. This morning I 
noticed on the west bank, large square blocks of sandstone, projecting in 



113 [ 1 ] 

strata eight or ten feet above the water's edge ; they appeared for a short 
distance only. 

Twelve o^ clock. — We have just passed the mouth of Cannon Ball river; 
the bank above it is steep bluffs, composed of thick strata of sand stone ; 
the opposite bank is gently rolling prairie, until it meets the hills about half 
a mile or a mile back. 

Six o'' clock, P. M. — The banks this afternoon have been, generally level, 
or rolling prairie, sometimes ascending gradually from the water's edge, and 
in other places, having a perpendioular rise of eighteen or twenty feet ; 
these last appear to be alluvial deposite, sometimes recent, and covered with 
a thick growth of small timber, and again having a growth of large timber, 
indicating that years had elapsed since the soil had been formed. In several 
places high bluff banks rose from the water's edge, composed principally of 
sand stone, the strata sometimes very much inclined, and at others horizon- 
tal. We are now just below Apple Creek, and, on each side of the river, 
nearly opposite, are two small hills, entirely bare of vegetation, called the 
Peeled Hills ; they seem to be the same formation as those in the Bad 
Lands. 

MiJidriy, June 10 — Six o'^ clock, A. M. — ^We are now, and have been for 
several hours on a sand bar, just at the head of Heart River Island ; we 
have been working hard to get off, but we may be here all day. This 
island is covered with a fine growth of cotton wood. Last night, after 
landing, a buffalo bull was killed by some of the men, and several others 
were seen, the first that have been since we left. Four men started out im- 
mediately after landing to walk nearly all night and make a hunt to-day. 

I forgot to notice what I had learned a few days ago of the custom of the 
Indians in the treatment of the aged and Infirm. Hodgekiss was speaking 
of a certain young Indian who had been killed in battle with the Crows, 
and said that he had but one fault to find with him ; that he would beat his 
old father, and that he had seen him strike the old man with a club and leave 
him almost lifeless. On inquiring if such was the custom, I was told that it 
was, and instances were cited by several to show that it w^as common for the 
Indians to leave the old to perish on the prairies. An instance was mentioned 
of a blind Crow^ Indian having been taken to a battle in the hope that he 
might be killed — of one very old man having been shut up in some trading 
house and left to perish — of an old squaw having been left in camp to die, 
and, being found by the traders, was kept through the winter ; in the spring, 
being sent back to her people, she was put in a small boat and cast adrift on 
the river. A small boy is now at Fort Pierre, who was found by a trader 
and brought in ; he had been left to die, because he had received a very 
severe injury in one of his legs, and would have been a burden to his friends. 
I, myself, noticed one day, on the arrival of a large band of Blackfeet, that 
an old man, who was said to be one-hundred and four years old, if I am not 
mistaken, was very badly clad, and had a wretched appearance. It seemed 
as if the young men had left him to provide for his own wants. This custom 
of neglect and .cruelty to the aged does not necessarily arise from a cruel 
unfeeling disposition ; it probably come from two causes — their views of a 
future state and their mode of life. The former leads them to suppose that 
if these aged persons die, they will go to a state of happiness and abundance, 
whereas now they are a burden to themselves and friends ; the latter makes 
it a great trouble to their friends to transport them in their frequent changes 
Mis.— 8. 



114 

of aboJe^ and it must be impossible for some, in their feeblesness, to endure 
the privations and exposure inseparable from such a mode of life. 

Twelve o'clock M. — For the last three hours we have been wind- 
bound just below the mouth of Heart river. I have taken a walk up the 
high bank, and found on its side three new flowers, of which I took speci- 
mens. I also secured a number of small stones, which I picked up on the 
tops and the sides of the bluffs ; the land back of the river is rolling prairie, 
on the opposite shore it is low and covered with timber. A little above 
where the boat is, I noticed that quite a large part of the bank had sunk, 
some of it probaly eighty feet, and some of it only forty. I approached it 
in descending from the high bluff beyond, of which the sunken portion must 
have once formed a part; the descent was steep but not dangerous, and con- 
ducted me to a plot of ground which appeared to have been broken off 
short from the upper part of the hill, and sunk about forty feet. The sur- 
face was mostly covered with grass, and of the same general level, although 
much divided by large cracks running in various directions through it, and 
at its edge towards the river, rising irregularly into peaks above the other 
part. Ihis part I examined with some care to find fossils, but saw nothing 
that indicated their presence ; a small yellow flower was gathered — the only 
place where it had been seen as yet. The formation in the side of the hill 
so well exposed by this great depression of a part of it was, yellow slate. 
I next descended to the lower part of the sunken land, towards the river. 
Here it was much broken up and descended by irregular steps to the water 
level. The same slate formation prevailed here as above, and amongst it 
there was quite an abundance of a crystal, specimens of which I brought 
with me. I walked down to the boat along the same shore, and noticed 
that at several places in the very high slate bluff, beneath the yellow strata 
formation, there were strata of what appeared to be black slate, but it 
crumbled to pieces when pressed slightly, and had the appearance of charred 
bark — a piece was brought along. The whole extent of this sunken ground 
was probably seventy- five yards long and forty broad. An evidence of 
its being recent is that an Indian trail on the hill side may be distinctly 
traced on the surface of the ground below. I noticed here, as at all other 
points along the river, the absence of animals of the snake kind ; not a 
single snake has been seen since leaving Fort Pierre, so far as I know, and 
we have been in the thickest bushes, among dead trees, and have torn down 
old houses, but not even a rat has been seen. The young rats that I got 
came from an old tree in the woods. 

Six o'clock P. M. — We have a delightful evening, and have just enjoyed 
one of the most beautiful views yet presented to us ; for several miles along 
the west bank there extended a prairie covered with fine grass, and rising 
gradually to low hills at a little distance from the water. Timber is more 
plenty to-day. Game is abundant also ; our supper table afforded most 
delicious buffalo steak, antelope steak, and elk meat, besides our usual 
dishes. 

Tuesday, June 11 — Seven o'clock, A. M. — I was aroused this morning 
by the firing of guns in rapid succession, and the hurried tramp of men on 
the deck, which indicated that something was going on. On rising, I found 
that seven bufll'alo had been seen crossing the river, and the men had been 
firing at them. Two were killed by shots, and Mr. Picotte killed a third 
with the axe, cutting his back bone through in several places. They had 
already hauled one on board when I got forward, but I saw the drawing 



115 [ 1 ] 

up of the others, and some idea of their size may be formed, from the fact that 
ten men, with the assistance of ropes and pulleys, were scarcely able to get 
them on deck. They were immediately cut up, and, together with our 
former supplies, have made us rich in meat — how it would excite an epicui-e 
to be seated at our table laden as it is with such a variety of game. 

I was interrupted in writing the above, and did not resume until I had 
finished the job I had undertaken ; this was no less than to skin and preserve 
the head of one of the buffalo bulls. The head with the skin and flesh on 
it, was very heavy, as they all are, and it is not much lighter after being 
scraped for preservation. It required several hours constant work to skin 
this one and prepare it properly, and even then I had to leave it unstulfed, 
as nothing was to be had for this operation. I hope, however, that it will 
reach the east in safety, and give my friends some idea of what a buffalo 
looks like. While I was working on this, the boat was aground for a con- 
siderable time, and had great difficulty in getting through a very bad place. 
We had expected to have reached and passed Fort Clark to-day, but will 
not be able to do so now. The banks have not presented that abrupt steep- 
ness noticed before, but beautiful slopes, covered with the finest pasture, and 
occasionally a large band of buffalo grazing. 

Six o^clockyP. M. — Another lovely evening, beautiful banks, and a 
pleasant breeze, while the boat is in motion. Expect to reach Fort Clark 
to-morrow morning, 

Wednesday, June 12. — Last night we lay at an old Ree village, about 
fifteem miles below Fort Clark. During the night we had a storm, which 
we had been led to expect from the intense heat of the day. We had quite 
a storm of another kind also, although not a dangerous one. Three Indians 
who had been out hunting had seen us during the day, and came on board 
about twelve o'clock. The only injury resulting from this visit was that 
my brother and Mr. Picotte lost their sleep, as they had to remain up with 
them till daylight. I was awakened by a very eloquent part of a speech 
made by one of them, but soon fell again into a sound sleep. 

About six o'clock this morning we came in sioht of Fort Clark ; it is a 
small fort, about one-hundred feet in length on each side, and stands on the 
left bank of the Missouri just below the Ree village. As we came round the 
bend a number of patches of ground under cultivation appeared along the 
river, and a very pleasing view was presented by the prairie curving inward 
for several miles, and the inner bank having- the fort and village on it. Our 
arrival was marked by salutes from ship and shore, and as soon as we 
landed, numbers of Indians came aboard. 1 thought their features were 
more decidedly like those of the English than the features of the Sioux, 
and my ear immediately caught the difference in the language. If I could 
speak either tongue I might explain this difference, but as it is, I feel as if 
an opinion should scarcely be regarded. On first listening to the Sioux 
language, it appeared to me that to characterize it as an affectionate lan- 
guage would best describe the impression made upon me by its tones ; in the 
Ree langauge this is not the case ; I thought that it was pitched on a higher 
key and had a harsher sound, and yet this may not express the true difl'er- 
ence. Their features express the same variety of expression as I before 
noticed in the Sioux. The Ariccarees, or Rees as they are commonly called, 
are said to be great thieves, pilfering anything they can lay their hands on — 
they are also great beggars like all other tribes. If a feast and some pres- 
ents arc not given to them, they injure the boat, and perhaps would take the 



[ 1 ] 



116 



lives of some of the traders in the winter sersan. Therefore a feast of 
coffee and biscuits was given to all who came on board, and sugar, coffee, 
flour, biscuit, tobacco and ammunition w^ere distributed amongst them, with 
all of which they appeared to be well satisfied. We were invited into the 
village, and Mr. Picotte and Alexander determined to go ; although last year 
they had served the latter in a very treacherous manner. 

One of their chiefs had gone down to Council Bluffs on the company's 
boat a year before, although much against the will of Mr. Picotte, who had 
paid him not to do so for two years before. But on this occasion he would 
go in spite of all opposition, and was killed by the Pawnees. The Rees blamed 
the company for his death, and determined to make them pay for it. On 
the arrival of the boat last year, Alexander was invited to a feast in the 
village, and went, accompanied only by the young man in charge of the 
fort. He found them all in a large hut armed to the teeth, and then first 
learned that dissatisfaction existed among them. They charged him with 
the murder of their chief, and in the most threatening manner, demanded 
pay for his blood. My brother was unarmed, and the people in the boat 
knew nothing of what was doing in the village. They had a stormy ses- 
sion at the feast, but at length all was settled by his promising to pay 
them two good horses ; they then allowed him to depart in safety, and 
at the proper time he sent the horses. Amongst all the Indians blood may 
be paid for, which is a fact, I believe, common to all heathen nations. 

To-day four of us went to the village and made a " complimentary call," 
as wo had not time for a feast. We w^ere received in a large mud lodge or 
hut, built in a circular form, having a diameter of about thirty feet. The 
entrance is through a small projection, corresponding in design, and some- 
what in shape to our small covered porches. The lodge was airy, clean and 
had no unpleasant smell in the inside. The gentleman of the house received 
us politely, placed a mat on the ground, then four or five robes, and taking 
us each by the hand seated us on them. Then he ran out, and standing on 
the top of his house invited the people to call and see us. While they w^ere 
assembling I made observations. 

The Rees do not use the skin lodge. The one we had entered was of 
their usual fashion, and was built somewhat in this way ; a circular foun- 
dation often thirty feet in diameter, is dug about twelve inches deep ; in 
the middle of this a platform about ten feet square and twenty feet high, is 
made by erecting four upright posts, and on these are placed four others 
horizontally ; then around the circular foundation are placed a proper 
number of upright posts, on which are again laid horizontal timbers, and 
against these rest small poles set very close together and one end stuck 
in the ground. These are probably five feet in length; then from the 
horizontal poles to those of the square platform in the middle, and beyond 
them, extend other poles laid as close together as possible, and of such a 
length as to form an entire roof, except a hole in the centre for the passage 
of smoke. On the sides and top dirt is thrown, and the house is finished. 
At the entrance a small projection is built of poles, extending probably six 
feet beyond tha main wall, and covered ; this protects them the better 
from the snow and rain. The external appearance is that of a rude cone, 
set on a base about five feet high, and thirty i'eet in diameter. On enter- 
ing, you must stoop, but as soon as you pass the skin door, your head 
may again become erect. 

We were conducted to the place of honor, opposite to and facing the 



117 [ 1 ] 

door. To our right, along the wall, were arranged several bedsteada, 
rudely made, while to the left, a part was cut off by a couple of poles, for 
tiie accommodation of the horses ; the chickens had a coop in one corner, 
but roam at large on most occasions, and the centre is used for a fireplace. 
The lodge was clean, airy, light and comfortable, and there was plenty of 
room for more than those, who I suppose, inhabited it. Eehind us were 
huno- bows with spears on the entis, and two rude instruments of music, 
made of a number of pumpkins. I believe something is put in the inside of 
them and shaken, but I have not learned the modus operandi. There were 
two squaws present, the elder of whom was very polite, the younger one 
stood back, either because she was the younger wife, or perhaps the wife of 
another man. I was quite pleased with both of them. Near the fire- 
place a small w^ooden mortar was sunk in the ground, for })ounding corn. 
The large and high room appeared rather scarce of furniture. I have thus 
attempted to describe the appearance and structure of the lodge in which we 
were, and this is the general appearance of all others. Many persons in the 
States live in much more filth and much less comfort. About twenty of the 
men having assembled, the owner of the lodge gave us the right hand again 
in token of friendship, and made a short speech, which we replied to, through 
an interpreter, and then we left. 

The village is composed of two-hundred lodges, as near as I could learn 
from the interpreter, and is built upon the top of a bluff bank rising about 
seventy-five feet perpendicular from the water. The huts are placed very 
irregularly, sometimes with very narrow, and sometimes with quite Uroad 
spaces between them. A number of platforms of poles, as high as the 
lodges themselves, are interspersed among them for the convenience of dry- 
ing meat and dressing robes. I noticed a number of squaws busily employed 
in dressing robes. I left the village much pleased with my visit, and with 
the politeness with which we had been treated. 

On passing to the fort, I observetl a great number of hillocks scattered 
over the prairie, and these, I W'as told, are graves, this people having 
abandoned the old method of scaffolding their dead. Other more agreeable 
sights on the prairie also attracted my attention, and these were little 
patches of corn and pumpkins, generally enclosed by a slight bush fence. I 
forgot to mention that over the fire in the lodge were two bundles of what 
appeared to be hay tied up in skins ; these, I was told, contained grains of 
corn put up in hay, and hung so as to be heated ; if the grains germinate they 
are planted, and tliose that do not are left out. This corn is small and on 
small ears, but Mr. Picotte says it contains a larger amount of flour than 
our corn. We spent a short time in the fort, and found it to be small and 
the buildings old, but everything very neat and clean. I saw there a young- 
antelope, which a squaw allowed to suck from her breasts ; it is said to be 
quite common for squaws to suckle young animals, often raising in this man- 
ner cubs of the grizzly bear. I have noticed that they often allow their 
chikh'en to suckle till much older than with us. I have seen children four 
or five years old taking a good tug at the maternal fount. 

About nine o'clock the boat was off again, having landed all her freight, 
and taken in some Ree corn. The hills opposite the fort and a little above 
it, are steep, irregular and of the whitish clay (tertiary, I think,) formation. 
The tops of several have a light red appearance as though they might be 
of pumice stone, such as I picked up last nighfat the landing. The hill at 
the village was covered with men, women and children, but as the top of 



[1 ] 



118 



it is level, no general view of the village could be obtained. This 
village is one of sad celebrity ; in the year 18 , it was inhabited by the 
Mandans, then quite a large tribe, but in that year the small pox passed 
over the country, and swept off nearly the whole nation. Many of them, 
in despair, seeing all their kindred dead or dying from the loathsome disease, 
cast themselves into the river from this high bluff. The small remnant of 
the Mandans now occupy a few lodges about five miles above the village, 
or have been incorporated with the Rees and Gros Ventres. 

Above the Ree village stretches a fine bottom, on which I was pleased to 
see quite a number of squaws at work putting in their summer crop ; it 
reminded me of some of the James river bottoms in Virginia. We are just 
now passing quite a long stretch of high steep bluffs on the west shore ; 
formations like that of hills in the Bad Lands — strata of a red slate, like 
half burnt brick, and occasional spots of a slate-like substance that looks 
as if it had just been exposed to the fire. Probably these are the appear- 
ances that inthcate former volcanic action. I wished that I could land and 
search for fossils. 

The Rees offer many advantages for missionary labor. They have one 
fixed place of residence, except for a few months in winter, when they go to 
some other place for wood and meat, but they return again to the village at 
Fort Clark. They cultivate corn not only for their own use, but also 
enough to make it a very prominent part of trade, and they are said to be 
peaceable and generally well disposed. The same things are said to be true 
of the Mandans and Gros Ventres, and the old traders say they are more 
like the whites in their ways than any other Indians. 

Thursday, June Vi. — Last evening for miles we had on both l)anks, 
principally on the east, the very irregular steep and white colored hills men- 
tioned before as being somewhat similar in their material to those in the 
Bad Lands. I noticed, however, that sand was the principal component 
while the white clay occurred in occasional strata only. About five o'clock 
one of the pilots brought me a very young Sand Hill crane which I put in 
alcohol, and I intend preserving the skeleton of a larger one, which was 
not in a condition to skin. 

About six o'clock, A. M., we reached Fort Buthold, one of the company's 
forts, situated on the east bank of the Missouri, about sixty miles above 
Fort Clark. It is built on a high bluff just on the north side of the Gros 
Ventre village. It is a small fort and without particular interest. Mr. 
Kipp, who has it now in charge, has kept it in good order if we may judge 
from its neat and cleanly appearance. The prairie extends beautifully east- 
ward from the village, and affords fine pasture for the horses of the inhabi- 
tants. 

On the plane near the fort is the burying place, studded with many- 
scaffolds on which the dead are placed, and also many graves in which they 
have been buried. Many of the scaffolds were partly broken down and 
had deposited their burdens on the ground where they lay exposed unsightly 
and forbidding. A number of skulls were kicking about the ground, and 
had it not been for fear of arousing the Indians, I could easily have secured 
six or seven good ones ; as it was, I picked up but one, and wrapping it in 
my coat marched boldly to the boat, and got it safely in my trunk without 
any suspicions being excited. The village, with its mud lodges, differs 
nothing in looks from the Ree village described yesterday, except in one 
particular, that is, the inhabitants are now engaged in surrounding it with 



119 [ 

pickets. The logs are well prepared and are all up except on the west 
side ; a bastion with loop holes is placed in the middle of each side. This 
picket is of course to protect the inmates against enemies by whom they 
are frequently attacked. 

Between the fort and the village stands a log house which belonged to a 
man the Indians killed there last winter. He killed an Assiniboine and the 
Gros Ventres destroyed him in revenge. Many of them came on board and 
had their usual feast and presents, and then marched off in great glee. One 
of their chiefs, a tall sharp loooking man, is on board going up with us, and 
also several others, one of whom is a Crow Indian with his fiimily. He has 
been visiting at the village, and is the only one that escaped from a small 
hunting party that was cut off by a small war party of Sioux, a few days 
ago. I noticed nothing peculiar about the Gros Ventres, except that their 
skin was generally much lighter than that previously seen. Some of the 
squaws were very light, closely approaching white. Their hands and feet 
appear unusually small and neat, and their teeth, which are much shown, 
are generally good. They have bright eyes, very cheerful countenances, 
and generally slender bodies well fitted for activity. Their extensive corn 
fields show signs of industry, covering as they do, the bottom grounds.' I 
have no doubt that a prudent, patient missionary, offering to instruct them 
in the arts of civilized life would be well received. 

Three and a half o^ clock, P. M. — We have just passed the mouth of 
the Little Missouri River, coming from the South ; abjout one-hundred and 
twenty miles above Fort Clark. Mr. Picotte has just confirmed what I 
had previously heard about the abandonment of the aged and infirm by the 
Indians. He says that the Indians further east on Lake Superior and 
Winnepeg, are worse in this respect than the Missouri Indians. 

He also informed me that since he first knew them in 1820, the Mandans, 
Rees and Gros Ventres, had probably lost five-sixth's of their number. At 
the time mentioned, they were a large and flourishing people, but now the 
Rees and the Gros Ventres have each but one ordinary sized village, and 
the Mandans a very small one. The same thing is true of every tribe with 
a fixed place of residence. He assigned for the fact the following rea- 
sons : — When they remain long in one place the wood becomes scarce and 
they are obliged to encamp in winter at a distance from their residence in 
order to obtain fuel, but on account of danger from enemies and rise of 
water in the spring, they are obliged to return before winter breaks up, and 
to enter damp and cold houses which have been exposed all winter to the 
frost and snow ; consequently many, especially the young and the aged, die 
of colds or other disease originating in the same cause. Also when they 
live in villages and inhabit mud houses they are more exposed to epidemics; 
and again, in a fixed position their enemies always know where to find and 
surprise them while working in their fields. 

These are the reasons why he thinks that for years past those tribes 
having fixed habitations, have decreased in numbers, and besides the above 
luentioned nations, he cites as instances, the Otoes, Omahaws, Pawnees and 
several others. While these have decreased, the Sioux, a wandering peo- 
ple, have greatly increased, their mode of life giving them the advantage 
in all the ])articulars mentioned. 

The river has been on the rise for several days, and I have frequently 
thought of the theory, that when a stream rises it is higlier in the middle 
than at the shores, and consequently the drift wood floats near the shores, 



[1 ] 



120 



^vhiIe in falling water the stream is lowest in the middle, and will therefore 
carry the drift there. My observation on two rises in the Missouri do not 
confirm that theory. I noticed that the drift has always been found in the 
current whether that he near the shore or in the middle-, and Capt. Durack 
confirms this opinion, saying that such is the case generally in rising and 
falling waters; the drift always floats in the current. The shores to-day are 
generally gently ascending — occasionally abrupt and of sand and white 
clay. 

Friday, June 14. — We are still in the Big Bend, which we entered 
last night, and shall not be out of it until we reach Knife river coming in 
from the north. This I take to be the stream marked on the map, Onion 
creek. There is also a Knife river below, on the south side, a few miles 
above Fort Clark. The Little Missouri is placed wrong on the map ; it 
comes in a few miles heloic the Big Bend, not above. This bend is about 
ten miles across and thirty around. The weather is windy and cloudy — 
buffalo are plenty ; early this morning some of our hunters went a-head of 
our boat and killed three bulls, which we stopped to take in. Soon after 
this was accomplished, a small herd was discovered trying to get up the 
bank on the w^st side, having just crossed the river. Many guns were 
fired, and three bulls killed, which we took on board. Further on, we 
overtook a large herd of cows in the middle of the river, and had the engine 
not been stopped, we would have run them down ; but as it was, all, even 
the calves escaped, with no other harm than a very great fright. 

The banks thus far on this bend have been Mauvaise Terre. We had 
to-day for lunch, one of the dainties of this country — the milk gut of a 
buffalo roasted on coals. It tastes somewhat like white pudding, having 
in it a substance that when cooked has also the appearance of stuffing. 
Mr. Picotte in speaking of the dislike persons in the States have to such 
things, says, that in the north, the dung of the reindeer is eaten and very 
much relished, and that he himself has eaten it ; it is esteemed because of a 
jieculiar weed eaten very much by the animals and is taken out of them 
before being completely digested. 

Evening. — Have traveled finely to-day ; river continues rising ; banks, 
prairie and bad lands ; passed Knife river about noon, and this evening 
White river, which is about fifty miles from the British dominions, and said 
by some to be the most northern point of the river. We shall reach Fort 
Union probably on Sunday. 

S(tturday, June 15. — Last night wc landed early, because of heavy 
clouds in the west, threatening a severe storm of wind and rain ; it rained 
all night, but the storm was by no means as severe as it threatened to be. 
I went out on the prairie as soon as we landed, and got several new flowers 
for the herbarium. Durins; the mornintr, the banks have exhibited fre- 
quently the burned appearance, and some of the hills have been very high, 
irregular and steep. About eleven o'clock we stopped to take in wood, and 
I had the first opportunity of examining the hills that have appeared so 
often, exhibiting signs of containing fossil remains. As I pushed my way 
along a buffalo path, through the bushes, I catight a glimpse of the first 
snake I haue seen since leaving Fort Pierre ; it was hurrying off and got 
away before I could overtake it. I next got specimens of several beau- 
tiful flowers jrrowino; at the edg-e of the woods on the small hills. I then 
pressed on to the large hills ; they are about sixty feet high, composed 



121 [ 1 ] 

principally of thick strata of sand stone with a perpendicular ledge towards 
the river. 

I examined along the side of one of the largest hills for fossils, but found 
none, except a very small piece of bone. At the base of this hill I found 
the large petrified roots of which No. 37 is a part ; it was taken from 
a stum}) about three feet in diameter, hollow in the middle, and about six 
inches thick ; nearly the whole stump rising about one foot above ground, 
still remains. Within a few inches of it are the remains of another, appa- 
rently still larger. The formation is different from that of the Bad Lands 
of White river. Some of the stones No. 36 came from this spot ; there 
was quite a heap of red colored stone in this place, which exhibited every 
app<3arance of having been under the action of fire. One piece in particular, 
about the size of half a bushel measure appeared to have been melted to 
nearly a liquid state, and then stuck together. If these red places were 
once volcanoes, the country must have been full of them. Coal cropped 
out just at the base of the burnt hills towards the river. Large veins of it 
were seen at least once this morning, in one of the steep banks immediately 
above the water. 

I asked Mr. Picotte about the smoking hills mentioned by Nicollet and 
was informed that he himself had seen smoke coming from them for years 
at a time, but that years ago they fell in and since then have ceased to 
emit smoke. They are about fifteen miles below Fort Lookout on the east 
side of the river. 

A few hours ago we met a skiff from Fort Union, in which were Mr. 
Clark, of the Blackfoot Post, the Crow interpreter and two men ; they 
were coming to meet the boat and had left the fort this morning, not ex- 
pecting to meet us in several days. Alexander and Joe Howard have just 
left us to ride to the Fort, where they will arrive in four or five hours. We 
have for some time been passing along a l)eautiful prairie, and although the 
day has been very windy, the evening is calm and lovely. The sun set 
beautifully a few minutes ago, and it appeared as though I had got beyond 
sun.set, for it seemed to go down almost behind us, probably because our 
course is mojje southwest. 

I feel rather sad at the prospect of parting so soon with my brother who 
has been so kind to me. May God bless him and his for his goodness to one 
of the humblest followers of Christ. 

Monday, June J 7. — Yesterday afternoon at four o'clock the boat landed 
at Fort Union, having made the trip of twenty-five hundred miles in thirty- 
six days and four hours, the quickest one on record. W^e were received 
very kmdly by the gentlemen of the post, Mr. E. T. Denig and Ferdinand 
Culbertson. They showed me qiiite a good collection of stuffed skins made 
by them for Profi'ssor Baird, at the request of my brother. This must 
have cost them a great deal of labor and considerable expanse, and they 
deserve many thanks from the students of natural history for whose benefit 
this collection was made. 

Fort Union is very much like Fort Pierre in its structure and about the 
same size, the principal difference being that here they have stone bastions, 
and a cannon mounted above the gate. A room also is constructed against 
the wall by the gate, in which they used to trade through a small hole 
about one foot square in the wall. Now however they trade at the retail 
store inside of the fort. The Assiniboines and the Crees are the people 
principally trading here. The Crecs are from the British possessions, and 



[ 1 ] 122 

are there called Re-nis-te-nos ; they visit the Missouri but once a year. 
About six lodges of the Assiniboines are encamped at the opposition fort a 
few miles below, and they were all here when we arrived. This occasioned 
some trouble and has been near making a serious difficulty as we had two 
Crow Indians on board, and the Crows and Assiniboines began hostilities a 
few days ago. Some of the Assiniboines wanted to kill the Crows on 
board, and our gentlemen had to protect them, by putting one in the 
fort and concealing the other in one of the state rooms. _ One of these 
Crows is a great warrior, although still a young man ; his name is the 
Horse-guard, and although not thirty years old, he has been engaged in 
about thirty expeditions, always returning with hair (scalps) or horses, and 
getting his party back in safety. He is a half breed and has the features of 
a white man. I should not judge him to be naturally a blood-thirsty man 
from his looks, but he is very brave and says if they would let him out in 
the prairie he would whip all the Assiniboines here. His son, a fine look- 
ing boy, is with him. The Assiniboines are here the worst dressed and 
meanest looking Indians I have seen, but this is partly owing to their being 
in mourning for the young man w^hom the Crows killed the other day. The 
cause of quarrel w^as this : a war party of the Assiniboines attacked some 
Crows, mistaking them for Blackfeet and killed two ; an attempt was made 
to settle the difficulty but the Crows killed a young Assiniboine who had 
strayed from the camp while the negotiations were going on, and now war 
is fully declared. 

Fort Union is situated on the east bank of the Missouri, about four miles 
above the mouth of the Yellowstone, and has a very beautiful prairie run- 
ning back of it to the hills. On the same side, just below the mouth of the 
Yellowstone, is situated the fort of the opposition company of which 
Harvey and Joe Picotte are the principal men. The Missouri and Yellow- 
stone come together — one from the north and the other from the south, 
and neither makes a bend beiore their junction, so that it would appear 
like the same river did not the currents run in opposite directions ; after 
their junction of course the stream is very large ; just now the Yellow- 
stone is the larger, although both of them are very full. 

The bell is ringing preparatory to a start for a point still farther up the 
river. We shall probably go much higher than any other boat has ever gone. 
Mr. Denig was so kind as to present to me a very fine bone bow with a 
valuable quiver and arrows, which I shall keep as a memento of this trip. 

Twelve o'clock — Eight or ten miles above Fort Union on the Missouri ; 
country more level than below, and banks well timbered all along ; hills 
lower, and the impression that of a more open country ; bad lands appear 
occasionally off the river and in perpendicular banks from the water. 

One o'clock. — We are now passing a small level prairie, on the west 
bank of the river ; it is covered with fine grass and has the appearance of 
a beautiful meadow. Hills to the north, a mile off — light clay intermixed 
with white earth — rolling prairie probably beyond. At the point in the 
first great bend, about ten miles above the Fort, channel seven to nine 
feet deep, point well timbered, vegetation backward — the yellow dried 
grass still gives its colors to the plain, although the new grass is coming on ; 
this has been observed for several days past. Little Muddy creek (Bu-bue) 
a omall stream about ten yards wide, comes in from the north, opposite the 
extremity of this point. • 

We are now passing out of this large bend, which is about half a mile 



123 [ 1 ] 

across, and six or eight around. Ten or twelve antelopes were seen grazing 
quietly on the beautiful prairie, but they scampered up the hill as soon as 
they caught a sight and a smell of the boat. VVild geese have been seen at 
three different times on this bend, and each time in pairs accompanied with 
their young. Saw a beaver this afternoon. We are now half a mile above 
the bend on the south side ; veins of coal in a bank fifty f(?et perpendicular 
above the river. The formation is sand stone. 

Appearance of the action of fire on the tops of several hills ; stones 
being of a red brick color. Just passing a place where there are high hills 
on both sides ; those on the south are off from the river ; those on the north 
are close to the water ; they are high and steep with much of the red burnt 
clay. Wood plenty. 

We are now approaching a spot on the north shore where the burnt 
appearances of the earth assumes a form more resembling a crater than at 
any other place I have ever before seen. They appear in section on the 
perpeiidicular foce of the hill, the wall like appearance and the circular 
form may be easily traced. They are red like the remains of an old brick 
kiln broken in two, and the one half washed away. I do not pronounce the 
formations to be really the craters of extinct volcanoes, but simply wish to 
convey an idea of their appearance. These appearances have been seen 
continually to day where the hills approach the river. Coal also here ap- 
pears in strata about two feet thick. The hills are formed of a soft sand 
stone and exhibit no soil except the burnt earth. Opposite this is a fine 
bottom, but the hills beyond exhibit an appearance similar to these. 

Five o'clock. — We are now taking in fuel at a point on the soulh side, 
where we have the greatest abundance of dry wood. I found here the first 
roses I have seen — indeed the very first buds, for below this there was no 
signs of a rose coming out. The appearance of the action of fire still con- 
tinue in great abundance on both siiles. I was informed that the white 
earth of these hills becomes of a red color when subjected to heat. These 
red places do not extend far into the earth and are rarely more than fi^ e or 
six feet deep ; below them appears the light colored earth. 

Six and a. half o'clock. — A little below the Big Muddy River a change 
takes place in the appearance on either side ; on the north the hills leave 
the river, ascend gradually, and are covered with grass, and a broad bot- 
tom intervenes ; on the south the change is similar but not so great. 

We are encamped just above the mouth of Eig Muddy River, about fifty 
or sixty miles from Fort Union. This river is probably the one marked 
Ibex on the map, as I can learn nothing of a river of this name from those 
knowing the country. There is a long and wide prairie here. 

Tuesday, June 18. — This morning the appearance of the country is 
about the same, prairie to the north and hilly to the south; hills with short 
grass showing occasionally the white earth. The Mackinaw boat in tow 
was sunk this morning by the steamboat taking a sheer and running against 
the shore. Some hunters sent out last night, have just come in, and I 
have been so fortunate as to get an elk calf, taken from the mother, and an 
elk horn some weeks in the velvet, both of which I have in alcohol. I 
again experienced the kind liberality of Mr. Picotte, who furnished me 
alcohol, without which it would have been impossible to keep these speci- 
mens, as my own supply was almost entirely gone before I reached Fort 
Pierre. It is not the pecuniary value of the article that makes this so great 
a favor, but the impossibility of getting any more for a year to come. 



[1] 



124 



Ten o'^ clock. — The country continues more even than yesterday — some 
fine prairie — good timber — just now passing some hills on the south side, 
where big horns are abundant. The hills are not as high as those seen 
yesterday. They are very irregular — covered with sand stone and rise 
perpendicularly from the water — swallows of a smaller kind than those 
in the states, ha\'e built their nests in the sides. A little up the river, slate 
appears. There is no sign of coal or of the red lands so frequently seen 
yesterday. 

Two 0^ clock. — I have just returned from a short excursion to Elk Horn 
prairie, about eighty miles from the fort ; the object of attraction was a 
remaakable pile of elk horns. The boat stopped and let us out about half 
a mile from the pile, when Messrs. Picotte, Clark, Culbertson and myself, 
with twenty-five or thirty men, stated for the horns; some ran ahead and 
by the time I got there one of the men had already mounted the pile and 
was handing down the horns. The report was that all the horns were at- 
tached to the head and that the pile was of a wonderful size. The distant 
view, for it was seen like a white monument several miles off, tended to 
confirm these reports, and I thought that here at least there had been no 
exaggeration. On close examination, however, I found it only about fifteen 
feet high and twenty or twenty-five in circumference. Eut even this was a 
wonderful pile to be made entirely of elk horns. There was not a single 
head to be found ; the horns were piled close together, and as there were 
no heads the whole probably were horns that had been shed from the living 
animal. 

What a number of elk must have been here to have furnished such a 
number of horns. As to the origin of the pile no certain information can 
be gained. Old traders say it has been here to their knowledge for twnenty 
years, and how much longer they cannot tell. Old Indians say they are 
ignorant of the time or occasion of its being m.ade. There were originally 
two piles, but for several years past they have been mingled into one. 
The prairie is from two to six or ten miles wide, and many miles long. 
It is further remarkable for being the place where the steamer Assiniboine, 
belonging to the company wintered several years ago. She had come up 
this far and could not get down again because of low water. In the spring 
she returned and was burnt, intentionally it is said, below the Mandans. 
We are therefore higher up the Missouri than any other boat has ever been. 
The country continues to be less hilly than yesterday. I procured several 
flowers as mementos of Elk Horn prairie. 

Four o'clock. — We are aground opposite the Ri\ iere au Tremble which 
comes in from the north, ninety miles from the Fort. This river is larger 
than any we have seen before. About an hour ago we struck the first sand 
bar encountered since leaving the Fort, but were off again in a moment ; 
no snags have been seen except very close to shore. None of the high 
irregular hills have appeared this afternoon, but very wide rolling prairies 
are seen on the north side. The English name of the stream is Quaking 
Ash creek. A little above, nearly opposite, is the mouth of apparently 
quite a large stream which runs very near the Elk Horn prairie, and is 
known I)y the name of the Dry Fork. It is quite large at the mou]h owing 
probably to the back water of the Missouri.. Saline deposite in south bank. 
The Quaking Ash river is probably the Martha's river of the map ; the 
traders knew no stream by this name. 

Seven o'clock — We have just had some rare sport ; half an hour ago a 



125 [ 1 ] 

herd of oik, fifteen in number, appeared on a bar above us ; as soon as they 
saw the boat they took to the river and swarn across, but became alarmed, 
and instead of landing, gathered in a circle and remained swimming about 
in the water. As the boat approached them, nearly every man prepared to 
give them a warm salute, which they remained quietly to receive. 

First, pop went one gun and then another, and another, and crack, crack, 
was heard for fifteen or twenty minutes, amidst shouts of the greatest ex- 
citement, while the elk started for the other shore, the blood spouting from 
most of them — one would lao- behind, and then another and down stream 
they would float wrong side up. Captain Bryuly, the second pilot, took 
long aim at one, and I thought he had missed, but in a moment up went the 
poor fellow's heels in the air, and he made a grand flourish in the water, 
but at last was obliged to giv^e up the ghost. Meanwhile, old Mr. Picotte 
was off" in the yawl, sword in hand, after the wounded and to bring in the 
dead. The sight was most exciting and amusing ; tlie old man sat strad- 
dling the bow of the boat, coat off", flourishing his sword, ready to plunge 
it into the first elk he could reach. One poor animal wounded in the back, 
was struggling to get away, and after him they put ; stick went the sword, 
but in it would not go ; the old gentleman had not examined the point, and 
on trial, it was found dull as a beetle. But he W'as too old a hunter to be 
foiled in this way, and the bow of the boat was again turned to the elk ; 
now they are on it and Mr. Picotte seizes it by the tail, pushing his 
small knife up to the handle in its side. The elk kicked and scuffled, but 
it w^is of no avail, and soon was on the deck and its hide unshipped, as one 
of the men called the operation of skinning. Meanwhile, a fine doe had 
been skinned and cut up on the forward deck, and the same operation was 
being performed on the s-ern, so that now three fine elk were on the boat. 
The yawl again went after another one, and returned with the only buck I 
noticed in the band, so that w^e got four ; three others were killed, but were 
carried off" by the current, and my own impression is that all the others 
were wounded. The horns of the buck were in the velvet state, but were 
very much injured. I shall get two or three skulls. 

Encamped at the side of a very extensive and level prairie to the north 
side eleven points from Milk River — cloudy and signs of rain. 

Wednesday, June 19 — Six o'clock. — The sun arose clear this morning 
but now it is a little hazy. We are nil still pushing up stream ; face of the 
country is rather more even ; low hills on both sides generally off" from the 
river. 

Ten o'clock. — Had a long talk this morning with Mr. Clark on the sub- 
ject of Indian customs. I was surprised to hear what he told me of the 
language of signs used by nearly all the tribes except the Sioux and Assini- 
boines. It must be as perfect and expressive as the language of mutes with 
us ; by these signs one Indian can tell another the principal events of his 
whole life and will be perfectly understood. And this does not come from 
the barrenness of their own language for it is sufficiently expressive, bnt 
Mr. Clark thinks it to have originated principally from the fact of the Indi- 
ans not knowing when they meet a man, whether he be a friend or an 
enemy ; they do not know whether to let him approach or not and by these 
signs he can learn all about him, though he be too far off to converse with 
the tongue. It is therfore the lan<;uatre of caution and defence. 

These signs are beautiful and poetic ; the rude figures which we see 
sometimes on buff"aIor robes are not mere awkward attempts at ornament, 



[ I ] 126 

but they are hieroglyphics, as easily read by an intelligent Indian as words by 
us, and perhaps containing a whole history of some great event. 

The Blackfeet do not place their dead on seaffolds but either in a hole 
well covered to keep off the wolves, or they leave them in the lodge with 
everything just as it is when they die. In that case the wolves of course 
eat their bodies very soon ; and I am told that in this way the body of 
nearly every Blackfoot is disposed of. When one of them is in mourning 
he puts white earth on his head and goes out before his lodge wailing most 
piteously ; as soon as the neighbors see that they all rush to his lodge and 
take it and everything it contains, leaving him nothing but his horse. The 
death of a relation is "therefore a very serious affair, since a man loses all 
his property as well as his friend. How different with us — where a man 
frequently gains property with the death of a relative. 

A Blackfoot has complete power over his wife ; if he finds her unfaithful, 
he generally cuts hei- nose off, but he can shoot her down if he chooses to 
do so, and it is said that it is very common to see good looking young women 
o-oing about noseless. If a man loves his wife and wishes to overlook any 
indiscretion of this kind, her own brother may walk into the lodge and say 
" it is only to-day that you have made me ashamed," and shoot her 
dead before her husband's face, while he can say not a word. The Blackfeet 
are taught to beg from their infancy and are adepts in the art. 

Six o'' clock. — We have just started, after the longest detention we have 
had except for business ; we reached this point about twelve o'clock, and 
have been here ever since fixing one of the wheels. However, the time 
was not lost, for the hands have cut enough of wood to take us down to the 
Fort, and will not have to detain for that purpose after we have unloaded. 

Milk river is said to be about twenty-five miles distant, but we would 
have reached it to-day, had we not been detained long. The face of the 
country to-day has been generally rolling prairies, frequently stretching many 
miles from the river. About eleven o'clock we passed the outlet of a lake 
or pond a short distance to the north of the river. In twenty-four hours we 
shafl probably have our face turned homewards, when I shall hurrah for 
the States. 

Wc have just passed the outlet of a lake which, according to one account 
is the same as that mentioned this morning ; but according to another, it 
belono-s to a different lake — if there be but one, it must be ten or twelve 
miles long. A part of it could be seen when we reached the end of the 
wood, and it is narrow like a creek and winds considerably. The woods 
are known as the places where the free men, (those not in the employ of the 
company,) built themselves a fort, and the lake is sometimes called Free- 
mens' lake from that circumstance. 

This lake is in one of the most magnificent prairies I have seen ; we are 
still opposite it, and it sweeps away for miles, at first very level and then 
terminating in hills, gradually rising and covered with grass. To the south 
a fine prospect is also seen, but then the hills rise from the river and in the 
distance black spots show that buffalo are there. The bute at Milk river is 
now easily seen. Just passed a small stream called the Little river, coming 
in from the south, marked but not named on the map. 

Thursday, June 20 — Eight o^ clock. — This morning we were off as 
usual, about half-past three o'clock ; soon afterwards passed a small stream 
on the south, generally called Dry Fork, though at present it contains 
water. At half-past seven o'clock we passed Porcupine river coming in 



127 . [ 1 ] 

from the north ; it is about twenty yards wide, no wood at the mouth, and 
as far as we could see, very little along its banks. It comes in at the upper 
end of Porcupine ^jut off, sometimes called Harvey's cut off. During ail 
this morning we have a continuation of the prairie country seen yesterday, 
especially on the north side there has been beautiful rolling prairie all along 
excepting occasional timbered points ; to the south low and scantily her- 
baged hills have run close to the river. 

This Porcupine river is the place from which the military expedition under 
the command of General Atkinson in 1825, turned back. He wintered at 
Old Council Bluffs, and in the spring ascended with nine keel boats A part 
of his company went by land as far as Milk river. The object ot the expe- 
dition was to treat with the Indians. The river to-day is still in a good 
stage, but we have had to cross frequently to keep the chaimel. 

There is always plenty of water here, say those familiar with the place, 
but the only trouble is to find the channel. The boat is now light and has 
passed over some places where only two antl a half feet of water was 
sounded ; rather hard scratching however. 

A large band of buffalo cows with their calves were crossing just above 
the mouth of the Porcupine, but Mr, Picotte would not allow the men to 
shoot ; we passed very close to them all and it was amusing and touching 
too, to see the very great fear they exhibited as they in vain struggled to get 
up the steep bank. I noticed here for the first time, what I had been told 
before, that the buffalo grunt almost exactly like a large hog ; had a person 
heard and not seen he could easily have thought that a drove of swine was 
passing. The men tried to catch some calves with a lasso but did not suc- 
ceed. Buffalo have been seen in great bands for several days past ; last 
evening probably five-hundred were in sight at one time on the river banks. 
I have seen paths beaten by them which look like travelled roads in a 
thickly settled country, and paths of this kind are seen at almost every 
landing. 

Twelve o'clock. — We are now on the point immediately above Milk river 
and will go a short distance higher up to find good timber for building a 
boat. Milk River comes in from the north, and is at least two hundred 
miles above Fort Union. Mr. Clark says that it passes within a hard day's 
ride — about forty miles — of Fort Benton, and if so it must be incorrectly 
laid down on the map. Some miles below I saw the first grizzly bear ot 
the season ; this is unusual as they are generally seen below Fort Union ; 
and Kelly, an old hunter, told me that the reason they are not seen on the 
river now, is that they are out on the prairies after the pomolanche or prairie 
turnip, of which they are very fond. 

We passed a few hours ago some black slate hills on the south side rising 
directly from the water ; the sides in several places were marked by the 
buffalo tracks so as almost to resemble slate roads, and to cause one to feel 
as though he was in a much traveled country. 

The boat has been about twenty-seven hundred miles above St. Louis, and 
a board was nailed on a large cotton wood tree near the shore, with the 
following inscription : " N. B. El Paso, landed here June 20, ISoO, thirty- 
five days from St. Louis — John Durack, Captain." The thirty-five days 
is the running time. This day at twelve o'clock, we were forty days out 
from St. Louis. I really feel very thankful that my life and health have 
been spared me during this journey. I have reached a point to which few, 
except traders have attained, and I hope that I have gained some valuable 



[ 1 



] 128 



information as well as restored my health. But it is a long distance, nearly 
four thousand miles to my home, and no one can tell what may befall me, 
but my duty is clear and I hesitate not to go even at the^risk of the cholera. 
Should it please Divine Providence to restore me to nfy home and my 
studies, it is my sincere prayer that it may be to employ my powers and my 
knowledge as a minister of the Gospel, 

Huzzu for homsl Plere we are driving at half past three o'clock down 
stream as fast as steam will let us. Our shouts of farewell have hardly 
csased to ring in these old hills that so seldom resound with the voice of 
whites, and now for the fir jt tiaie have hear I the p iff of a steamboat. We 
stopped at twelve o'clock several miles above Milk River on the southern 
bank, landed all the freights for Fort Benton and have turned our face 
homeward. It was a picturesque scene as we rounded to, all hands on the 
hurricane deck — the crew sincjingi: one of their peculiar sonsfs — the cannon 
firino- and ourselves giving three good hearty cheers, while the shore with 
its green carpet was covered with merchandize — the different families 
bivouacking under the scattered and venerable trees, and the men who were 
bound for the Blackfeet, returning our cheers and salute with hearty good 
will. 

Fridaj/, June 21 — Six o'clock A. M. — We are now perhaps, half way 
back to Fort Union, and if we meet wuth no misfortune, shall probably be 
there early this evening. The day is clear and pleasant and we are having 
a delightful ride. 

Eight 0^ clock. — We are now" stopping at the prairie on which is the 
large pile of elk horns mentioned a day or two ago. Old Mr. Picotte has 
the notion into his head, of taking the whole pile to St. Louis, and soon this 
noted, and almost revered land mark will be on the hurricane deck of the 
El Paso. All on board, excepting the old gentleman himself, would prefer 
to leave it untouched, especially as the horns are not in a good state of pre- 
servation. The river is falling and we shall have no time to lose. 

Adopted relations among the Blackfeet are very frequent and of the most 
sacred character ; two young men become comrades, and then they are 
friends by the closest ties, and it is a greater disgrace for a comrade to lose 
his friend in battle or want of bravery or skill, than to lose a younger bro- 
ther. Whenever they are together for any time, they exchange presents. 

The mere glimpse I have gained of Indian customs, convinces me that to 
acquire any philosophical and valuable knowledge of them, a person must 
live with them for a time. From such men as Mr. Picotte, Mr. Meldrum, 
Mr. Clark and my brother, he may gain a great deal of information, but no 
questioning can place him in possession of all the facts, because he does not 
know what to ask, and if he did, these men not being accustomed to defi- 
nitely conmunicate their knowledge, often so speak as to convey an exag- 
gerated impression without any design to deceive. Constantly customs of 
W'hich I had no idea, are mentioned in conversation, so that it is my opinion 
that in order to a proper appreciation of the Indian, a long residence among 
them is necessary. 

Friday, Six o^ clock, P. M. — Arrived at Fort Union again about four 
o'clock having had a most delightful trip to Milk River. The river has 
been falling, but as the weather is again oppressively hot, we look for more 
water, although there is still plenty to run down on. We shall be off early 
in the morning, and I feel glad to move on homeward as fast as possible ; 
nothing could induce me to live here. I feel sad at heart to part with my 



129 [ 1 ] 

brother and I know that I shall be lonely to-morrow without him. May all 
his kindness be returned to him tenfold. 

Saturday, June 22. — The boat moved from Fort Union across the river 
for wood about half past three o'clock, and aljout that time we had a very 
fine shower of rain. At half past seven o'clock we moved off, firing a 
salute to the men belonging to the fort who had come over to help us take 
in fuel, Alexander was with them and the last sight I had of him he was 
standing up in the boat which was just pushing otf. 

We have not made a very good run to-day because of the wind beino- 
r gainst us this afternoon and the wood has been bad. A good deal of baa 
land apj)ears on both sides of the river, and much of the burnt earth with it ; 
this often appeared on the sides of grass-covered hills, and in hills rising 
directly from the prairie, as well as in its usual position in the white land 
hills. 

While it is difficult for one not skilled in such matters to refute the com- 
mon belief that the red burnt-like earth is the result of the action of fire, 
it is well to mention some circumstances that at least throw some improba- 
bility on that theory ; the first is that if these red looking places were cra- 
tei's, the whole bank of the river must have been volcanoes for hundreds of 
miles, with few exceptions — they occur in almost unbroken connection for 
miles, and above Fort Union there is one place where they thus appear 
almost continually for twenty or thirty miles, being there much more fre- 
quent than lower down. Another is, that so far as I can see, these hills 
exhibit no other evidence of the action of fire ; there is not a single sio;n of 
volcanic action that I have seen around these places, either in the forma- 
tions of the hills or in the stones on their surface. 

And again what appeared to me very singular on the supposition of vol- 
ciinic action, has been that these crater remains, or volcanic remains do not 
extend deep into the earth ; in some places they look no deeper than a 
modern lime-kiln ; in others they appear almost as a stratum placed in be- 
tween the other formations, and in all they have other formations below 
them, find in many above them. I regret very much that I cannot describe 
the geological formation of these hills. 

Monday, June 24. — Yesterday we passed Fort Berthold, the Gros 
Ventre Fort, and came within fifteen miles of Fort Clark, the Ree Fort at 
the old Man(hm village. On the map there is a Fort Mandan marked 
nearly opposite Fort Clark ; this is probably the Fort built by Lewis and 
Clark for their quarters, when they wintered with the Mandans. I noticed 
yesterday a thick vein of coal in the bluff on which the Gros Ventre village 
i.s built. 

Tuesday, June 25. — This is one of the few rainy days we have had, but 
is not uncomfortable, as we are well protected in the cabin and at the same 
time are moving along slowly towards home. There has been a good deal 
of detention from running on sand l)ars, and in looking for the channel. A 
few hours ago we passed Heart river, and at the place where we were 
aground so long when going up we stuck again, injuring one of the wheels. 

Thursday, June 27. — Yesterday was nothing more than a bright plea- 
sant day, passed in grounding, backing, wooding and going a few miles 
a-head. The night })revious, we had landed at "a place tbat ought to be 
Galled Musquito hollow, if we may judge from the comphiints made by 
every one. I never suffered so much from them, and could not get to sleep 
until past midnight ; others were forced from below to the hurricane deck* 
Mis— 9 



[1] 



130 



and there passed the night as best they could. The day was marked by 
another event also worthy of record — the death of my porcupine. I had 
the skeleton preserved. 

Ill the evening when we landed, Mr. Picotte was seen running up a 
very steep, high bluff, and while we were admiring his activity he called to 
us ; we all at once started off, supposing he had seen game. Mr. Clark 
taking his rifle, and Ferd his knife ; but on coming up to him we were much 
amused to hear the old man instead of pointing out the game, ask us to 
slide down the hill to the water's edge. Fortune favored me at this place, 
for as we desceneded the hill, I saw for the first time in my life, the cactus 
in bloom. It was a most agreeable surprise to find this unsightly plant 
which is the great annoyance of moccasined voyageurs adorned with flowers 
of a fine straw color. I secured several of them although none appeared to 
be in full bloom ; how to preserve them is a great difficulty with me, for so 
much of the fleshy substance must go with the flower, that it is almost im- 
possible to dry it. The structure of the flower, also was full of interest to 
me, so that on the whole, I thought I had secured a real prize. 

At night I listened with great pleasure to a long conversation between 
Mr. Clark and Mr. Picotte, on Indian customs and language, and I regret 
that I cannot record it fully. They mentioned the great generosity of all 
Indians manifested in their disposition to give presents, and so great is the 
desire to do so, that they will even steal to gratify it ; the same generous 
disposition is remarked in nearly all half breeds. Pol teness amongst them, 
assumes some very singular forms ; for instance, it is a mark of great respect 
for an Indian to pass his plate with the remnant of his meal to any one who 
may be with him ; this I have observed at the feasts, and have seen it in the 
half-breeds constantly. And it is the very quintessence of politeness for an 
Indian who is drinking liquor, to fill his mouth and then pass the contents 
to his friend's mouth from his own. The Indians notice the manner in 
which they are treated by the traders, and think it rather strange — say they, 
"we give you the best food and the best robe, while you give us poor food 
and put us in another room to sleep." "Well," reply the traders, "the 
reason is, that there are so many of you, and so few of us, we cannot afford 
to find you all, as we feed ourselves, and if we feed one of you better than 
another, jealousy is produced. 

The Indians in their intercourse like to see a man well dressed because it 
shows respect to them, and they despise a man who adopts their own cos- 
tume ; they are conscious of, and admit the white man's superiority, and 
have mind enough to despise the man who lowers himself to them. They 
all make it a point to dress in their best when they reach a fort, except the 
Assiniboines ; and Ferdinand says that if they are not dirty before they get 
near the fort they make themselves so purposely. 

The Indian name of the Gros Ventres is Minetaree — the people of the 
willows — the Aricarees call themselves Corn Eaters, and the Mandans 
have no translation fi)r their name. Mr. Clark mentioned a difficulty in 
acquiring an Indian language worthy of notice, namely, that the women 
and men use a language so different that after acquiring one you would 
almost be ignorant of the other — that the men would pretend to be entire- 
ly ignorant of many w^ords which the women use, and these are not words 
peculiar to feminine dress or habits, but the names of very common articles 
and acts. This is doubtless owing to the social position of the female — 
their interest is separate from that of the men, and they are mad< to feel 



131 [ 1 ] 

that they are rec^arded as inferior beings. There is a difference in the lan- 
guage of the male and female even in civilized life, but this arises from a 
very different reason — from the superior refinement of the latter. 

It was remarked as an instance of politeness of an Indian gentleman, 
that he never laughs at the awkward attempts of a white to speak his lan- 
guage, but on the contrary will compliment him on his success, and if a 
squaw breaks out into a laugh, as they sometimes do at the slightest mistake, 
he rebukes her and tells her she does not know how to speak her own lan- 
guage. This reminded me of the conduct of the Chinese to our mission- 
aries in listening to their first attempts at preaching. 

We spoke a little of the importance of a good half-breed school on this 
river, and every one present gave it as his opinion, that an effort to esta- 
blish one would meet with encouragement. It is said that there .are pro- 
bably one hundred and fifty children whose parents were able to pay sixty 
or eighty dollars a year for their schooling. 

Evening. — Stopped about thirty miles above Fort Pierre — have there- 
fore made a poor run to day, and had a great deal of grumbling. The 
western bank has been almost a continuous bed of slate, thirty to forty feet 
high. I went ashore, and found the bottom covered with a vine bearing a 
pretty specimen of bindweed, and have preserved some good specimens ; it 
differs from the beautiful pure white bindweed of Virginia, in having run- 
ning vines and a purple tinge on the petal. 

Friday, Jime 28. — About ten miles below Fort Pierre — home seems to be 
approaching quite rapidly, and we are now only about three thousand miles 
from it, and no cholera in the states, as we understand. We reached the 
Fort at about nine o'clock this morning, and left at two P. M. I was glad 
to see again my acquaintances. 

Mr. Picotte here left us, and we are to make the rest of the trij> without 
him. He has been very kind to me and asked me to remain with him this 
summer, but this was out of the question. In leaving the Indian country, 
I must record my acknowledgment of the very many acts of kindness and 
hospitality extended towards me. The gentlemen, particularly of the Fur 
Company, have uniformily treated me with kindness and attention. 

Saturday, June 29. — Last night closed in with clouds indicating a 
shower, and a fine rain fell during the early part of the night. Called by 
Mr. Pattick about five o'clock to see the opposition boat, which was in 
sight. All hands got up, and in about half an hour the two lioats were 
opposite one another in the stream, but not a word was exchanged — thus 
we passed, twelve hundred miles from home, and did not extend tlie slight- 
est salutation ; so mucb for opposition in trade. It was the St. Ange, a fine 
boat, owned and commanded by Captain Joseph Leltarge. There were 
several ladies on board, and my eyes were delighted with the sight of a 
beautiful face and fine figure for the first time in some months. A great 
Inany high slate hills on the west side this morning. 

Monduji, July 1. — On Saturday night we camped a shorf distance 
below Wbite river, and had something of a blow again. Yestercbiy we 
passed the L' E;iu qui Court and encamped below it, and now at about ten 
o'clock, Monday morning we are pushing down stream quite rapidly below 
the river A'Jacques. It liad been my intention to have noticed with some 
particularity the face of the country below Fort Pierre, but as it has been 
carefully examined by scientific men with instruments, and reports made on 
it, it appears to me scarcely worth my while to do so, an,d besides this it i^ 



[1] 



132 



impOvSsible for me to give an accurate account of the geological formation 
from observing it as the boat passes swiftly by. I have noticed the lime- 
stone mentioned by Nicollet and seen it in fine strata lying above slate ; if 
this stone is hard enough, it would be admirable for building. I think it too 
soft however, although I have not yet been able to secure a specimen. 

These slate and limestone rock occur in very high steej) bluffs rising almost 
})erp8niHcularly from the w^ater, except when bars or narrow bottoms inter"- 
vene ; they also often exhibit evidence of the presence of sulphur and iron : 
they do not occur in one unbroken succession, but they cross the river very 
frequently, being seen now on one side and again on the other, but never, 
so far as I remember, appearing on opposite sides at the same place. They 
do not occur in unbroken succession ever on the same side of the river, but 
most generally appear as the sections of a series of short hills with ravines 
between, and these ravines having in them grass and scrubby trees, fre^ 
quently cedar. I noticed many swallow nests in these high banks. 

I have looked with some care for the pseudo volcanoes of Nicollet ; we 
passed the one in the bend below White River very early in the morning, 
and I did not see it to my disappointment, but I noticed several places in the 
banks which I supposed he called volcanoes, as they presented the red 
burnt-like appearance notice(,l so often about Fort Union. One of these 
places passed yesterday on the west bank, had so much the appearace oi 
having been caused by fire as to make the Captain exclaim — that must have 
been a very recent fire. We are again getting into the region of snags, 
but w^e have made fine running yesterday and to-day. Hurrah for home I 

Tuesday, July 2. — We reached the Vermilion post yesterday at twelve 
o'clock, and was welcomed by Mr. Larpenter. We were detained there all 
the afternoon to take in packs, and at night we lay at the island opposite 
«nd took in wood. I got two pairs of black tailed deer horns, and was 
offered a young skunk, wdiich I declined ; there are two on board, really 
beautiful little creatures and full of play. This morning v/e had made forty 
miles before breakfast and have some hopes of being in St. Louis by Sunday. 

Wednesday, July o. — We spent the night a little below old Council 
llluffs, and this morning soon after breakfast w^ere at Bellena, and saw foB 
the first time in some months a settlement of wdiites. Yesterday the hills 
for the first time were seen covered w^ith timber and presented quite a 
pleasing contrast with the bare bluffs of the upper river. To-day we are 
hastening along and may reach St. Joe to-night. 

Friday, July 5. — Yesterday was passed by me delightfully, because I 
was hurrying home as fast as steam could carry me. We passed St. Joe 
about ten o'clock, making only a short stop. I there got the skull of an 
Assiniboine chief from Mr. M'Donald. We passed several towns but 
stopped only once, at Parkville ; we met several steamboats bound upwarcL 
This morning it is oppressively hot. 

Saturday, July (5. — My trip has at last ended, so far as the Indian 
country is concerned. The El Paso landed about two o'clock, all in goofl 
health and spirits and glad to get home. I desire to feel very grateful to 
Divine Providence for my safe return and restored health — may the know- 
ledge gained be all employed in promoting God's glory. 



133 [ 1 ] 

APPENDIX. 



As already stated, Mr. CuIIicrtson collected niimerons specimens of Natural History during 
liis recent expedition. Among these was a series of plants, a list of wliicli as drawn up by 
Professor Thomas C. Porter, of lAIarshall college, Mercersbiirg, is subjoined. A list of the birds 
and niammalia of the Missouri river, from Fort Leavenworth to Fort Union at the mouth of 
tJie Yellowstone, has been kindly furnished by i\Ir. Edward Harris, of IMoorestown, N. Jersey, 
and includes many species not seen by Mr Culbertson. Mr. Harris visited the Upper Jlissouri 
in 184'2, in company with the distinguished naturalist, Mr. J. J. Audubon, recently deceased, for 
(he purpose of assisting the latter gentleman in procuring materials for his valuable work on the 
niannnalia of North America. No .systematic catalogue of the kind has ever been before pre- 
sented, although detached notices may be found in the narrative by Maximilian Prince de Wied 
oJ" a journey along the Missouri to the Rocky mountains in 1832. 

The concluding part of the appendix contains some valuable information on the numbers and 
distribution of the Indians of the Upper JMissouri. This is arranged in a tabular form, acc(Hn- 
panied by explanations, and is published as left by 3Ir. Culbertson. 

S. F. BAIRD. 



MST OF PLANTS COLLECTED BY MR. CULBERTSON t BY PROFESSOR THOMAS 

C. PORTER. 

RANUNCULACE.12. 

Anemone pennsylvanlca, Linn. Common in moist grounds along the Missouri. June 17. 
56, 82.* 

Thalictrum dioicum, Liiin. Slaminate plant. IMissouri river, June. 76. 

Thalictiiim corniili, [Jnn. Low grounds almig the Missouri. Five feet high. June 27. 112. 

l)el[)lunium azureum, ^Miclix. Grassy bank opposite Fort Lookout. June 21). 108. 

BERBERIDACE.?i. 

Loontice ihalictroides, Linn. Sine fl. etfr. Pinon's spring, west of the head of Bad river. 
May 11. 2. 

crucifer.t:. 

Sisymbrium canescens, ,V««. Frequent near Fort Pierre, I\Tay. 26,29. 
I'.rysimum asperum D. C .Ahuiulant around Fort Pierre. ALiy, June. 40. 

Vesicaria ludoviciana D. C. F,lk Horn Prairie. 72, 9L 
Vesicaria (undetermined.) Piairie. May. 9. 

VIOLACE.1%. 

Viola cucullata, /1;7. ftfay. IS, 2L 

Viola Nuttallii, /';<r.s/i!. Valley of the Missouri. May Lj. 10, IL 

linacea:. 

Linum rigidum, Pitrsh. Low grounds near Fort Pif^rre. June. 67. 
Linum jierenne, Lin«. Near the mouth of Alilk river. June 20. 1)8. 

OXALIDACEili. 
Oxalis .stricta, tjrt«. Dank of the Missouri below Fort Clarke. June 23. 104. 

* The numbers are those attached to the specimens. 



[ 1 ] 134 



ANACARDIACEiE. 
Rhus toxicodendron, Linn. Bank oftlie Missouri. June. 58. 

MALVACEiE. 

Malvastriim cocciticnm. Gray. PL FcndL p. 34, and Gen JlLt. 2ld. {Sida coccinea, Nutt.) 
Dry soil, near the inuuth of the Vellowstone. June 15. b'O. 

VITACE2E. 
Vitis riparia, Afic/^x. Banks of the Missouri. June. G5. 

POLYGALACE^. 
Tolygala alba, Nutt. (P. Beyrichii, Torr Sf Gr.) Opposite Fort Lookout. 110. 

LEGUMINOStE. 

Vicia ain'^rlcana, MnhL Comm m .-ilon^ the i\!issoiiri, above Fort Pierre. 10.5. 

Lalhyriis linearis, j\m/<. L5:iiiks of the Missouri ; frequent. 17.95. 

Latliyrus |iolyuiorphiis, A'w//. Ver\ ;iliniiflarit on hills and low pKiiiiuis. Fragrant. ]\!ay. 12. 

Am irplia nana, .\«». (Joninion aniiind Fort Pierre ; 18 inches lo two feet high. May. 38. 

Dalea (undetermined.) Siiieji.ttfr. Hank of the Missouri. June. ()"2. 

Psorale I esculenla, /-"rtrs/i. '' Prairie turnip.' Near Fort Pierre. May. 42,43,08. 

Astrag.il ns caryocarpus, /Ctr. Hinnfr (Joinmon. May. 24. 

Astragalus raceinosus ? Pitrsh. Flk Horn Prairie. June 18. 93. 

Astragalus (uniieiermined.) June 20. lOl). 

0.\ylro|)is l.and)erlii, Piirah. Dry hills on the prairie. May 16. 8, 84. 

Pliaca negleuta / Turr Sf Gr. (^specimen iniporfect ) Near Fort Lookout. June 29. 111. 

Tlier iiopsis ihomlnfolia, Nutt. On ihe .Missouri above Fort Union. 92, 

Lupinus pusillus, Fursli. Upper Missouri. 88. 

ROSACE.i:. 

Pruiius aniericana, il/ffrs/iflW. Mid(jle of May. 14. 

Potentilla pennsylvanica, Linn, Low grounds; one iiundred and twenty miles above Fori 
Union. June 19. 96. 

Poienlilla anserina, Linn. Above Fort Union, 97. 

Rosa blanda, Alt. Low grounds and woods; forty miles above Fort Union; very abundant. 
June 17. 101, 102. 

ONAGRACEiE. 

^'Enoihera ccesp'tosa, Nutt. Very common on the .sides of barren hills, near Fort Pierre. 
End of .May. 3J. 

(iaura cocci nea, A'«H Hills near the river, atove the mouth of ihe Yellowstone. June 15. 
79, 89. 

Gaura (undetermined.) Perhaps a variety of G. coccinea, A'^uti. Near Fort Pierre. June 49. 

grossulariace.t:. 

Ribes aureum, P«*-.s/j. Bank of the ftlissonri, near Fort Pierre. May. 15,69. 

UMBELLIFERiE. 
Nos. 1, 7, and 46, (in fruit,) (undetermined.) 

CORXACEiE. 
Cornus stolonifera, Aliclix. Abundant on llie banks of the Missouri. 51, 85. 

CAPRIFOLIACEiE. 

Symphoricarpus, (fuLj Wet grounds along the Missouri. GO, 70, 99. 
Viburnuui lentago, Linn. Abundant on liie .Missouri. 74. 

RUBIACE.S:. 

Gahum boreaie, f^inn. Dry bank on the Missouri fifty miles below the mouth of the YelioW' 
stmu. June. 81. 



135 [ 1 ] 



COMPOSITiE. 

Achillea millefoliuii), Linn. Elk Horn Prarie, and above Milk river. June 18 and 20. 
67, ]U:5. 

Artemisia rri;;ida, Willil. {foL) Praire jnsi below Fort Pierre. 21, 

Seiiecio (iimieterinineil ) Common on the Praiijps about Fori Pierre. May 30 

Cirs nm nndnlauim, .Simn^. {foK) River bank just above Fort i^ierre, May. o7. 

LvjU'O'lesmia jiimea. ;Y////. ()()f)Osiie Foi I Lookout. June 29 JO'.f. 

Troxi(nuii cusiiidaium, Purnh. Wet j;ronnd and [jraine around Foil I'ierre. May 44, 

primulace.t:. 

Lysimacliia uiliata, Li'/ai. Jloist gronnds, I'pper AFissonri. June 27 114. 

SCROPIIULARIACE^i:, 

Pentstemon (undetermined.) Elk Horn prairie. 90. 

Pen'slenion {Sji nur .') |{oci<v Hill near Fort Purre. 28. 73. 

Cast'lleja sessiliHor:), I'lirsli. Elk liurn jiriurie on the iMissouri, about eigiity miles above 
Fort Union. June 18 83. 

VERBENACE.T.. 
Verbena bracteosa? »1/it7(j;. About the boles oflbe prairie Marmot. May 39,22. 

BORAGINACE.E, 

Lilhospeiinum ? Rank of the Missouri tiver. June 77. 
Myosot s :>l(Mni'raia, iY;/^f. Near Fort Pierre. May '.^7, 45. 
Bleilensia (undetermined ) Dry prairies. May 3,4, 

CONVOLVULACE^. 
Caly.stegia sepiuin, R. Br. Wet grounds on the Missouri. June 27 61,107. 

APOCYNACE^. 

Apoevnum caniiibinnm, Linn. Moist low grounds, eighty miles above Fort Pierre. 
June 17 ll.i. 

ASCLEPIADACE.E. 
Asclepias Sullivantii, £«"'(■/;/!. Wet meadows on the Missouri ; common. May 32. 

SANTALACE.^i. 

Comindi-a umbfllata, NitU. Just below Fort Pierre, and bluffs near the month of Heart river. 
May, June 23, 71. 

SALICACE.y.. 

Salix loM2i''olia, MuliL {pist. Jf) Y'eivcomoon. June .'')2. 

Salix, (niidilermined.) i<«A«. //. Abundant on streams and sand bars; Upper IMissouri, 
Mav 13. '' 

Populus iaivigala, IVilld.* Valley of the Missouri. S./. and/r. 51. 

iridace.t:. 

Sisyrinchiuin berinudiana, Lirtn. Prairie above Fort Pierre. June 12 lOG. 

SMILACEiE. 
Smilax herbacea, fyirt«. (.S<am.;;/.) Near Port Pierre. May 41. 

LILIACEiF.. 

Pmil iriiin stellatn. D'sf. V^ery rommon in wef plar-es alonjr the Missouri. June .55. 
Allium (undetermined.) (fl. only.) Perhaps A atilliiliim of Geyer's collection 20. 

C0MMELYNACE.1S. 
Tradescantia virginica, Linn. High dry bank just below the mouth of Heirt river. June 10 86 



[1] 



136 



CYPERACE.E. 

Carex stricta, La?n. Wet sand ; Upper Missouri. June 75. 

GRAMIXIEJE. 
Elymus, (undetermined.) Elk Horn prairie. June 18 94. 

^ EQUISETACE^. 

Equisetum arvense, Linn. (Sterile plant.) Common along the Missouri. June 50. 



LIST OF BIRDS AND MAMMALIA FOUND ON THE MISSOURI RIVER FROM FORT 

LEAVENWORTH TO FORT UNION, AT THE MOUTH OF THE . YELLOWSTONE 

RIVER, BY EDWARD HARRIS, ESQ. 

(The Species marked with an asterisk were seeu on the lower part of the river; the rest were 
higher up towards Fort Union.) 

BIRDS. 
Catharlcs aura, III. Turkey Buzzard. 
Buteo swainsonl, Bp? Common Buzzard. 
ArctiiljiUeo St. Johannis, {Gin.) Black Hawk. 
Aquila ckrysatos, Golden or Kiiigtailed Eagle. 
Halialus Icucnccphdlug, Sav. Bald Eagle. 
Paniliiin carnllnus, Bp. Fish Hawk. 

* Naurkrus fiircalus, Fig. Swallow tail Hawk, (above Council Bluffs.) 
Falco peregrintis, L. Duds Hawk. 

sparteriiis, L. Sparrow Hawk. 
Circus ullginosiis, If'th. Marsh Hawk. 

* Athene ciiniculiiria, Bp. Burrowing Owl. 

PhIjo virginianus, Great Horned Owl, the whitish variety. 
Antrostomus nultiil/i, Aud. Poor Will. 
Clwrdedes virginianus, Sw, Night Hawk. 
Acunthylis pelasgia, Boil. Chimney Swallow. 
Hirundo purpurea, L. Furple Mariin. 

limifrons, Say. Clitl" Swallow. 

bicolur, Vieitl. White bellied Swallow. 

rufft. Gin. Barn Swidlow. 
* serrlprnnis, Aud. Hough winged Swallow, 
Tyranuus vatirulis, iV;;/. Arkansas Flycatcher. 

crinitus, Sw. Great crested Flycatcher. 
inirepidus, Vieill. King Bird. 
Tyranmcla sayi, Sw. Sa\' s. Flycatcher. 
Sctapltaga ruticilla. Sw. liedstart. 
Sylr/uola wsliva, Sw. Yellow Warbler. 
Tr/(iias marilandica, Bp. Maryland Yellow Throat. 
llcllnaia peregrina, Aud. Tennessee Warbler. 
jyUnotiha varia, Vieill. Black and White Creeper. 
Troglodytes ohsoletua, Say. Kock Wren. ^ 

a'don, I'icill House Wren. 
Parns septenlriomdis, Harris. Long tailed Wren. 
Sialia arclicd, Sw. Northern Blue Bird. 
JHimus carolincnsis, L. Cat Bird. 

rufus, Bp. Brown Thrush. 
Tardus migratorius, L. Robin. 

wilsonii, Bp. Tavvney Thrush. 
Seiurus aurocapillus, Sw. Golden Crowned Thrush, 

noteboruansis, Bp. Water 'I'hrush. 
Agrodoma sptaguei, Aud. Sprague's Lark, 
Olocoris rufus. Western Sky Lark. 
Fleclrophanes pictus, Sw. Smith's Lark. 

urnatus. Towns. Chesnnt collared Lark. 
Chondestrs granimaca, Bp. Lark Finch. 
Zunotrichia graniincii, Sw. Grass Finch. 

leuaiphrijs. Sw White crowned Sparrow, 

* Zonolrichiu querula, l^.uU, Harris' Finch. 



137 [ 1 ] 



Spizella pallida, Bp. Clay colored Bunting. 
socially, Bp, Chipping Sparrow. 

* Passcrcidus saranna, Bp. Saviiiinali Sparrow, 

* Coturniculus Itrnsloiri, Bp. Heiislow's I5iintin». 

Iccontci, And, Lecowte's Bunting. 

huirdii. Ami. Baird's Bunting. 
Spiza amoena, Bp Lazuli Finch. 
Carduclls trislis, L. (lokKinch. 
Vipilo arcticus Sw. Arctic 'I'owhee. 

* cnjtliropthulmns, (L.) Tovvhee. 

Corydalina Incolor, (Toiviis.) White shouldered Sparrow, 

* Erijt/irnspiza purpurea. Purple Finch. 

(iuiraca rocrutcn, iitc. Blue Grosbeak, above Couticil BliilT>. 

liidoriciana. Sw. Rose breasted Grosbeak, above Council BlnlTs. 
inrlanorrphuln, S\v. Black headed Grosbeak. 

* Pijrn7iga ritlira, (L.) J'iciU. Scarlet Tauager. 
Doticltutiij.r orijzirora Sw. Bob Link. 
JMuloUirus pccoris, Sw. Cow Bird. 

Agelaius pkoejiicciis, I'itill. Med wing Blackliird. 

* xanthoccphalus Bp. Yellow headed Biackl ir.l. 
Icterus hnltbnorc Duiid. Hanging Bird. 
iscokcophugus mtxiranus, Sic. Brewer's Blackbird. 

* .iturnella liidoviciana, Bp. IMeadow Lark. 

neglccla, And. Western Lark. 
Corzus cacaloll, IVagl. Raven. 

americatiHS, Aud. Crow. 
ricii Irndsoiiica, Sab. Magpie. 
Lanius Indovicianus, L. Loggerhead Shrike. 
Vlrno olicaceug L. Red eyed Vireo. 
Iclcriu. viridis Bp Chat. 
Bombijcdla caroliiiensis, Br. Cedar Bird, 

* Trorlidiis colidiris, L. ilumming Bird. 
Picus knrrisi. And. Harris' Woodpecker. 

erijlhroapludiis, L. Red head Woodpecker. , 

Colaptcs auratiis, L. Flicker. 

rubricalus Lkld. Red shafted Flicker, 
fujrcsii, Aud, Ayres red shafted Flicker. 
Erythrophrys erythrophlhnhnvs, Black billed Cuckoo. 

* Conurus caroUnenais, Kuld. Parraquet; above Fort Leavenworth 
Ectopistcs migratorius, Sw. Wild Pigeon. 

caroiuiensis Sw. Dove. 

* Mdeagris gallopnvo, L. Wild Turkey, above Floyd's bluff. 
Tdrao urophasiauus, Bp. Cock ol the J^lains. 

* citpido, L. Prairie Hen. 
pliasiandlus, h. Sharp tailed Prairie Hen. 

Orlyx virginiana. Steph. Bob W hite. 
Fulica americuna, Gm. Coot. 
Cliaradrius vocifcrus, (L ) Kildeer. 

virginiacus, Borck. Bidl head Plover. 
Ait'dis lartramius. Field Plover. 

mactdarius, (L) Bp. Spotted Sandpiper. 
.Tolanus Jlavipes, Vicltl. Yellow Shanks. 

* Ruslicola minor . Woodcock. 

* Rtcurvirostra amr.rirana, {Gm.) Avoset. 
J^umenius lougirostris, II ds. Curlew. 
Ardea herodiu.i, (L) Blue Heron. 

Anser eariadcnuis (L.) Canada Goose. 

* liutcliinsii, Rick. Hutchin's Canad'' Goose. 

* crythropus Bp, White fronted Canada Goose. 

* liyperboreus, {I'M.) Snow (joose. 
Cygnus bucctnalor, Ricli. Truni[ieter Swan. 
Alias boschas, (L.) Mallard Duck. 

strrpera, (L.) (iadwall Duck. 
*arutM,{L.) Sprig-tail Dnck. 
Anas sponsa, (L.) Siinuner Duck. 

* Anas obscura, {Gm.) Black Duck, 

* dyprala, (h.) Shoveler 

* Grus americanus, (L.) Whooping Crane. 
Lasur atri.rdla. (L.) Black head Gull. 
Sterna Jissipcs, (L.) Black Tern. 



[1] 



138 

MAMMALIA. 



Bos ameriranus. Biiffiilo. 
Ccrvus ctiniiiicnsis. t?:iy. Elk. 

inacrolis, Stiy. Bliick tail Drer. 

virgini/tnus, {L) Cominoii Deer. 
Antilope ainericana, Ord. Aiiteiijpe. 
Ovis montaiiu, Desm. Bif^lioiii. 
Vrsus jerox. Grizzly Bi-ar. 
* * (imerkanus. Brown Bear. 

Mdes luhniiliirin, Sab. Ba(lj;er. 
Gulo liiscus Sab. Wolverptie. 
Lupus ocnidentulis. Rail. W'liilp Wolf. 

latruns, Say. PiMine Wolf. 
Vulpiis velox. Say. Svvil't Fox. 
JMtphilis citinga ? Skunk. 
Mustcla cunatlensis. Fisher. 
Lyni: canadensis. Canada Lynx. 
Castor aniericanus, Itii/i. Beaver, 
Lepus townsendii. Buck. Townsend'.s Hare. 
artemisia, Back. Wdrinvvood Hare. 
* syhalicus ? Back. Conitnou Rabbit. 
' Spcrinopkilus liidviriiinus. Say. Prairie Doff. 

* tridcrcmlinentns, Afilck. Prairie Squirrel. 

* Sciurus cinereus, (L) (at Stjiiiirei. 

• niger. Blac-k S(|nirrel. 

*niacrourui. Say. (ireat tailed Squirrel. 

* Tamins ijuadnmltalus. Say. Four lined Ground Squirrel. 
Neoloma fiuridana. Wood Kat. 

* Mus musrntus, (L) House Mouse. 
Hesperonnjs Icucopiis ? I'nf Peer Mouse. 
Psuednstuma liorealis, Hick. Gopher. 
llyslrix. doisuta. Porcupine. 

The following new Species are indicated as occnrrins; in this region, by Maximilian Prince de 
Wied, (Voyage dans rAmenqne dii Mord. Pans, 1843. 3 vols. 8 vo.) 
Vpspcrli/'O vrsinus. Fori I'ninn. 
Hypudans tencDgdstrr. Alandan V^iilage. 
Ferognatus J'uscus, Fort Union. 



AN EXPLANATION OF THE TABULAR VIEW OF THE INDIAN TRIBES OF THE 

UPPER MISSOURI. 
BY THADDEUS A CULBERTSON, JULY ISoO. 



Explanation of the Tabular view of the Sioux JWdion of the U. Missouri. 

These tables are designed to show the numbers, principal tribes, .iinaller divisions and 
country of that part of the Sionx Nation living on the Upper Missouri. The inforniaiion lias 
been gathered from Mr (i^hailes Gilpin, of Fort Pierre, Irom several Indian chiefs, and has 
been submitted f> the inspection of Mr. Henry Picolte and Mr. Alexander Cnllierlson, partners 
of the American Fur coni|)any, and for many years familiar with the nation referred to. as well as 
with those higher up the ri\('r. The Sioux nation occupies ihe inmense tract o( country 
extending in a sioiith west dirertiou Irom the Upper Alississippi to the Platte river, and bounded 
on the West liy the Black 11 ills. 

This tal)le does not refer to that part of the nation living on the Mississippi. Three thousand 
lodges may hi- relied on as very nearly the correct number of those living on the Missouri, 
according to the testimony of the be.-t authority, and thirty thousand as nearly the correct number 
of souls; the average souls per lixige has been put at ten. (ui Ihe auihorily of ftlr. I'icotte, who 
has had every <ipp(irttinity of making a correct estimate. He thinks that eight souls per lodge 
might not be loo low, but he prel'rrs to put the esiimate at ten. 

The first division of the uiition is into three large tribes: — The Yaiiktons, the Ynnktonnanfl 
and the Ti oiis or Tilonwans. 'IMiese speak the same hingiiage and always maintain friendly 
relations, but they have few interests in common ; so far as 1 could learn, they liold towards each 
other no relation at all unalagous to a federal union. 



13i) 



[11 



Hach of those tribes is again divided into a great nnmbpr of small bands, bound together by 
ties of kindred and alHiiity ; eacii of these consists of a single family connection, lives by itself^ 
and regulates its own private concerns. 'I'liey have no chief possessins the aulhoriiy which is 
generally associateil with that title, but the men of authority amongst them are those who have 
gained it by an exten-ive family coiniection, by their great vvi;alih, or by iheir success lu war 
and general character for wisdom. There are a nnmber of such mi'ii in each band. 

These bands all take names that their own taste may select, or that some circumstance may 
give them. Those given in the table are by no means the whole number, but they are ihe prin- 
cipal ones, and are sutHcient to illustrate the nature of these divisi.nis Tlie Tiloiis have an 
interniediate division between these small bands and the larger ones, eonsisliiig of seven bands, 
as marked in the table, the Brules, IJIackfeet, iSzc. There are olher ass()(i;itiuns amongst all tiie 
iribes, whidi I have not noticed in the table ; these are somewhat aiialouons lo the association of 
Odd Fellows and other secret societies amongst us, t)aviiig f ir their object miiiual protection 
and defence. The coiiniry of each tribe has necessarily been as-igned by Ibe ml)^t general 
limits. The Sioux nation has no fixed place of residence; the people use skin lodges for their 
habitations and are constantly on the move, and their only wealth consists of horses and the 
bnlfalo robc^s that they nny procure. The rivers referred to in the table are the ones on some 
part of wh ise b isiiis the tribe generally passes the winter. 'I'he limits between hostile nations 
may be tolerably well defined, as they are exceedingly careful not lo meet their enemies unless 
traveling in large bands or in war parties. 

The list of names that closes the table is intended principally to illustrate tlieir method of 
ii'iming; these are the naxies of a few of the princi[ial men in each band, and ihe same method 
of naming is em[)loyed in everything. It will be seen that all the names are signili'-ant uiid most 
probably given lo the persons from some circumstance bappeniiii; to tlipm, or gre.'.t feat per- 
formed b\ them. 'J'he last column is the Indian name spelled as priniounced, as nearly as the 
ear could catch the sound. 



Explanation of tlie Tabular view of several Indian nations of the Upper 

Missouri. 

THE CHEYENNE NATION. 

Most of the previous remarks apply also to the nations referred to in these tables. I sliall here 
merely note peculiarities. This nation once lived on the Missouri, but h.as been driven back 
gradually by the Sioux people, until their principal range is west of ibe Hl.ick Hills. They speak 
a distinct language, which is so dilKcult to acipiire, that but two or three whites are able to 
speak it. In ]<'<4'J iliey sntfered severely from the cholera; about two luiiidicd lodges being 
carried otFby that disease. The following are the names of two of their principal men. Yellow 
Wolf — Sha ga-man-to g'hi. Mad Bull — To-tun-cha-ga-nuntchi ah. 

THE ARICCAREE NATION. 

This people dilTers from most other tribes in using dirt lodges and living in a permanent 
village. Tlieir village is located at Fort Clarke, o.n the we>t hank of the .Vlissonri, lilile above 
forty-seven degrees of i\orth Latitude. They inhabit this during the whole of the yi-ar, except a 
part of the winter months They raise large quantilies of corn, which diHcrs veiy miuh from that 
raised in our fields, but none of our vegetables have reached their) yet. The Kees were once a 
large nation, but within the last thirty years, [)eslileiice, di-:ease and war have reduced their 
numbers very greatly. This has almost broken up these large family connections that consti- 
tute the bands amongst the Siou.\ and the bands of Rees in the table, are those smaller associa- 
tions mentioned in page 4. 

THE MANDAN NATION. 

This is the remnant ofqiiite a large band that was almost exferniinatod bv the small pox ii» 
IS'JSor 18:>1). Their depopulated village was taken poss(!s-ioii of by the Rees who now hold it 
and they themselves becai;;e partly incorporated with the Kee.s anil other ti ibes. <!Xi-epting a 
few who have a small \illa;;e. five miles above that of tin; Rees. Thev are again increasing 
very slowly, and are said to a brave peo[)le. They spenk a di-tiiict laii:.nri:.'e. 

Mr. Joseph Desautel, of Fort Clarke, is my auth,jrity for ihe numbers of the Ree nation. 

THE GROS VENTRE NATION. 

The Indian name for this nation is Minnetaree— people of the Willows. Like the Rees they 
live in a permanent viliaije aiii "ullivate the land; their village is at Fort IJerihoM, on the east 
side of the Missouri, seveniy-liv(! miles above the Ree villa:;e. 'Fliey have lately enclosed it 
with good pickets, lo protect themselves from their enemies, and are said to he anxious to adopt 
the arts of civilized life. The bands here, as with the Rees, are not formed by family cou- 



[■ 1 ] 



140 



nections, but are voluntary associations and consist of persons of the same an:e. The Blffek 
Tail Deer band consists of very old men, and the other bands of ages in a descending series to 
thti Foxes, which is a band of very young men- 
Air. Kipp, of Fort Bethold, is my authority here. 



THE ASSINIBOINE NATION. 

This is a large wanderinj tribe, ranging in a very extensive country north of the IMissourr, 
extending far into British Amerlci, and lying east of the Bl;ickfoot country. Tlie larger p.irt 
trades with the British company, and oidy about six hundred lodges trade with the Americans. 
'1 heir name signifies the Stone People. Their language is kindred to the Sioux. 

THE CROW NATION. 

This is a largo nation inhabiting the country drained by the Yellowstone. It is divided into 
two large villages or bands, and these are again divided into bands formed of family connections ; 
t)ie connections are here counted on the mothers' side instead of the fithers'. The Crow people 
are very brave and are great warriors. They and the Gros Ventre nation spe.di the same language. 

.Mr. Meldrum, who lias lived for twenly-five years amongst the Crows, is my authority here. 
He makes twelve souls ths average number to a lodge amongst this people, as it is well known 
lliai they have more to a lodge than any other nation. It will be noticed that the average 
varies in each nation. 

THE BLACKFOOT NATION. 

This is also a large and very warlike nation, living north of the Missouri, and partly in the 
British dominions. Its minor divisions are not well ascertained, because only a part trade with 
tlie Americans, and they generally come to the Fort in very large numbers. The division into 
North and South Blackfeet is probably a division made by the traders for their own convenience. 
The first three divisions speak the same language, but the Gros Ventre du Prairie, although 
fully incorporated with the Biackfoot nation, speak a diflerent tongue, said to be the same as 
that of the Arapahoes on the .Arkansas. 

My. Malcom Clark, of Fort Benton, is my authority. 



141 



[ 1 ] 



O 
QO 



Y. 



cj Jj = i I-5-q 



-5 " -^ 

2 " i 



^.^:^ 



rt '-p " b' Q) 



Pi 

O 

00 



p:5 

pin 



O 

o 



.¥^1; 






■^ -'^ _ i> " 

0) oj ^ ^ !> oj aj 



O o 



_, ^x <=5 



OJ 2 0) 



= i2 ■^ .-i 

Or. — -= 
', > C3 O 



COffl 



Oi (U D 



tt 




— 




a; 




O) 








r-- 


^ 


;j 


> 




<D 


0) 


■u 



o r: 5 1^ tu 

_r aj ■■- -= o 



o 

1—1 
H 



OJ "^ — 



= s"2?, --^ = 2- 



_g a.. T3 j; g o J 

O "3 ~ ~ Z. O ^^ 



a. 
c 
a> 


2^ 

"oj 


s 


-° — 


QJ •'■ z 

= 1-' S 
= — 


rt 


■' "^ 


J= 


^ OJ 


bo a. S 


S 


l,° 


S-- 


eat 
foot 


'c " ,S 



.- c o cu 



CD -' 









_ o 



COHH 






Cft ^ C2 ^'^ 

J g 3 -a ':c'_^ ^ , ,^ ^ „ 

oDhO-qIS a^ji aj a;Q-^j3 a; 5 
dapa;aja:'oajooaja;!ajoa:) 



-r=;-y t^ >.5 °- 



a. P — .— 



2 JO _ • 






HH 




[1 ] 



142 



. J= i=: 






>-^>l 



J2:; 



1 i1 




f---n 


1^£ s 


? --.^ 


■ - = ^ 


0_j'5 


!^2:!/}>i 



OJ O 01 OJ 



F-r-r^ e-r-f-H 



■ >^ =J Z w 

■ 5 — J: 2 

I ''' _ X OJ 

I 01 ^ •- to 



^<^ eta 






I -J 6C-/2 £: a Q ^ - - >- 'JO 



2 o 



143 



[ 1] 



O 
.S 








o 

G 


a 






Ci; O 


















^^ »^ 


















^ IJ 


.55 




C G 




[/; 




p 


.G ;=^ 






■J2 '^ 




''S 


s 


^.2 . 






CC 










a:- -^ 


o 




QJ C^H 




O 


0. 


O 


O CC 


bD 


. 


fcJ^ ni 




b£ 


bJ-.~ 






2 
bjD 








CC 

G 
bC 


b£*^ 


G 




c o 




G 


c 


o 


sSfi 


CC 




CC -^ 




CC 


CT 


■4— » 


-1 

l-H 




hJ 




J 


h-1 




J 




-^^ 


1 




!Z! 


O 


4-' 




Qj 




o 


1, 




O) 




o 




-*-> 




-s 


0) 




% 


C 


■^ 








3 






c 


a> 




O 


X 


-if 


"cC 






'c 


o 

CC 




4-J 










^ 










O 
c 


2 o 


■n 


G 
O 

. bfi 


0; 


Cj 


'o 


0) 


^^ 


-l-> 


9-' > 


o 


o a 


'*-' 


-C 


i) 


'S t>> 


^ il 


a 




lf2 


G I' 


G 


>-. 


sq 


c ^ 


O S 

^ o 


bx: 

CC 


bn c/2 
r 5j 


QJ 


c a; 

O; OJ 

bJD2i 

CC 


O 

bCi 


t/1 


o 


s s 




'> 


1) -(-J 
> G 


O 




h> 


rf 




■5 rO 






M "; 














J^-. s 


-(-> 


r^ 


^ 


^-^ CU 


^— ' 


O 


^ 


^ 


;=; bj: 


G 




G 


T ''' 


G 


t/: 




«*- o 




Oi 


rt 


9, o 


o 


v; 


rs 


o a 


to 

.2 


CC 


vS^ 


^ 
w 




CC 


S 


Q 


-B^ 


n 




<u 


i~. 


%-t 






o 


' -^ 


OJ 




^ 


<V 


o 






I^H 


Ph 




P^ 


p^ 






^^ 




tZ! G 
O CC 



be 

o 


bD 






Q 


o 














r/i 


br, 


r/1 


V) 


"c 


s 






C 


o 


o 




^ 


^ 


-H O 



H PQ 



o f/2 



G O "-'- 
0.1 rn ^.■J 






■< 



O G 



bC-d 

^ o 

'^ (^^ ^ 
c 
«c 







tu 


bfl 




ft 


o 




1— ( 


Q 


xn 
bC 

c 


cC 

H 


r/1 


Q 










^"^ 


bc_ :=: 


O 


(~i 


O p_::5 it! 


_ '", 


'rM 


PO w 


pq 



^Qj " O 
>- >:7 O 



O 



G 



G^ 



t; s 



13 ' 

0) <D O 



OJ ^^ -G 

.G '^ _ <" 
•G rH •>^'*v ^ 



[1 ] 



144 



^ 
s 

^ 
e 
^ 



^ 



t-i "IS o . 





:b '^ 




' '"' ■ 1 
'^ 




-, '♦^^ 




O) 








!» wT 




^C <u 




C C 




rt 








^"" 1— t 








g 




0) (n 




>^ 




9- 






. 


a c 


Co 




-^ 




?; 


-£5 


PQ 


H 



bD 

o 



CI 

s 



-r^ 






^ 



bJ3 



bJD2 



C 

o 

_ !2L| 

CC bfi 3 

b/jO S 
jH OJ bJD 



"S o 






. -s-o -S ^ ^ -=! ■• f^ ?5 k: 2i w J*^ 
■c! oj oj .;:r o ^ o 



o 'r; 
Ph p. 



Oh5 



6 M^^ 2 2 



o g 



0) n3 







3 













rn 






rt 






rA> 










<u 


-! 




bCo 




^w 


V) 



















r> 


Tt- Ti< 





















'o 












M 


<u 




M 




^^ 


bJD 


re 
re 


.i; 






re 


s~ 







^ IT! 


bJD 


< 



W<1 


VI 


^ 


ni 

H-5 


c 


+j 


OJ 


C ^ 


•• 




^ 


bfi 
cC 




Si 


5 


« 


3 


"**^ S-H 


G 




S3 


be 


S cu 





£ 




re 


Q-= 





^ 



pq 


















^ 


















b£ 




















rrt 






















































re 






-*-> 


M 


i7«-* 








. 


w 






r2 


5 - 








G 
























a; 




0) 




^ re 


re 
W 


> 

ST 


so 
a; 



p:; 


re 




4-i 


re 
0^ 


Ph g 
^ c 


^ 


r-, 


fa 


p 


^ 


-1 
Hi 




PQO 


^ 


•+J 


a) 


a) 


a; 


t;; 


Oj 
















^ 






CJ 






^ 


^ 


l^i 


iZ} 


HH 


tH 


I^HH 


JtH 


C^ 



o 

o 
re 



o 
o 



A — ^- 



v: re 

1-3 OJ 



Ph G 
o 2 



r^ 



o 

CO J°. 

o -. O 
fa o o 

^ rH _•* 

re 



'C3 



W 



145 [ 1 ] 

SUMMARY. 

Sioux, 30,000 

Cheyene, 3,000 

Ariccaree, 1,500 

Mandan, 150 

Gros Ventres, 700 

Assiniboiiie, - 4,800 

Crow, 4,800 

Blackfoot, 9,600 

Probable number of Indians on the Upper Missouri, 

and its tributaries 54,550 



Mis.— 10. 



[ 1 ] 146 



APPENDIX TO LIBRARIAN'S REPORT. 



Copy-right Publications deposited prior to 1850. 



LIST of Books, Maps, Charts, Musical Compositions, %-c. delivered 

to the Librarian of the Smithsonian histitution, from August 10, 

1846, to December 31, 1849; in compliance with the following 

requirement of the Act of Congress, approved August 10, 1846, 

establishing the Smithsonian histitution. 

" Section 10. And be it further enacted, That the author or proprietor 

of any Book, Map, Chart, Musical Composition, Print, Cut or Engraving, 

for which a copy right shall be secured under the existing acts of Congress, 

or those which shall hereafter be enacted respecting copy rights, shall, 

within three months from the publication of said Book, Map, Chart, Musical 

Composition, Print, Cut, or Engraving, deliver, or cause to be delivered, 

one copy of the same to the Librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, and 

one copy to the Librarian of Congress Library, for the use of the said 

Libraries." 



Part L — BOOKS. 
" II. — MUSICAL COMPOSITIONS. 
" III. — MAPS, PRINTS, &c. &c. 



PART L~ BOOKS. 

Abbott (Jacob,) History of Alexander the Great, with engravings : 12mo 
278p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; 
deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

History of Hannibal the Carthagenian, with engravings : 
12mo 295p — New York, published l)y Harper & Brothers, 
1849 : deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

History of Julius Csesar, with engravings : 12mo 278p — 
New York, published by Harper &, Brothers, 1849 : depo- 
sited by Harper & Brothei'S. 

History of King Alfred of England, with engravings: 
12mo 270p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 
1849 : deposited by Harper ci Brothers. 

History of Mary Queen of Scots, with engravings : 12rao 
286p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 : 
deposited by Harper & Brothers. 



147 [ 1 ] 

Abbott (Jacob) History of Queen Elizabeth, with engravings : 12mo 281p ; 
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 : depo- 
sited by Harper & Brothers. 

History of King Charles the First, of England, with engra- 
vings : 12mo 2S5p — New York, published by Harper & Bro- 
thers, 1848 : deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

History of Charles the Second of England, with engravings: 
12mo 304p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 
1849 : deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

A Summer in Scotland, with engravings : 8vo 331p — New 
York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 : deposited by 
Harper & Brothers. 

Abbott (John S. C.) Kings and Queens ; or Life in the Palace ; consisting 
of historical sketches of Josephine, Maria Louisa, Louis PhiJ- 
lippe, Ferdinand of Austria, Nicholas, Isabella IL, Leopold 
and Victoria : 12mo 312p — New York, published by Harper 
& Brothers, 1848 : deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

History of Maria Antoinette, with engravings : 12n^o 
322p — New York, published by Harper & Brothe^rs, 1849 : 
deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Adams (Daniel, M. D.) Book Keeping; containing a lucid explanation of the 
common method of book keeping by single entry ; a new, concise 
and common sense method of book keej^ing, for farmers, me- 
chanics, retailers and professional men, &c. &c., designed for 
schools and academies : 8vo large, 141p — Keene, published by 
J. W. Prentiss & Co., 1849 : deposited by J. Homer French. 

Primary Arithmetic ; or Mental Operations in Num- 
bers ; being an introduction to the revised edition of Adams' 
new arithmetic, designed for schools and academies : 12mo 
180p — Keene, published by J. W. Prentiss & Co. 1848 : 
deposited by J. Homer French. 

Key to Adams's New Arithmetic, revised edition, for 
the use of teachers: 12mo 88p — Keene, published by J. W. 
Prentiss & Co., 1848 : deposited by Daniel Adams. 

Adams's New Arithmetic, in which the principles of 
operating by numbers are analytically explained, and syntheti- 
cally applied, illustrated by copious examples; revised edition, 
designe({ for the use of schools and academies : 12mo 306]) — 
Keene, pul)lished by J. W. Prentiss & Co. 1848 : deposited by 
Daniel Adams. 

Adams (Mrs.) Letters of Mrs. Adams, the wife of John Adams, with an 
introductory memoir, by her grandson Charles Francis Adaii s ; 
fourth edition, revised and enlarged, with an appendix, conta n- 
ing the letters addressed by John Adams, to his f on J( hn 
Quincy Adams, on the study of the bible : 12mo 472p — 
Boston, published by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1848 : deposi e I 
by Charles Francis Adams. 

Adams (Rev. W., M. A) The King's Messengers, an allegorical tale ; 
from the London edition, with engravings, executed by W. 



[ 1 ] 148 

Howland, from original designs by Weir : 12mo 141p — New- 
York, published by the General Protestant Episcopal Sabbath 
School Union, 1848 : deposited by J. W. Mitchell. 

Adams (Rev. W., M. A.) The Old Man's Home; with engravings, from origi- 
nal designs by Weir : 12mo 108p — New York, published by 
the General Protestant Episcopal Sabbath School Union, 1848 : 
deposited by J. W. Mitchell. 
Agassiz (Louis) and Gould (Augustus A.) Principles of Zoology : touching 
the structure, development, distribution and natural arrange- 
ment of the races of animals, living and extinct, with numeroUvS 
illustrations, for the use of schools and colleges ; Part I, Com- 
parative Physiology : 12mo 216p — Boston, published by 
Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, 1848 : deposited by Gould, Kendall 
& Lincoln. 
Agnes Morris, or the Herione of domestic life : 12mo 143p — New York, 
published by Harper & Brothers, 1849 : deposited by Harper 
& Brothers. 
Alamance ; or the great and final experiment ; 8vo pamphlet l'5p — New 
York, published by Harper & Brothers : deposited by Harper 
& Brothers. 
Alden (Joseph, D. D.) The Dying Robin and other tales : 12mo 212p — 
New York, published by Harper & Brothers : deposited by 
Harper & Brothers. 

The Lawyer's Daughter, illustrated by H. W. Hewet: 
12mo 186p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 
1848 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Alice Gordon, or the uses of Orphanage ; with ten 
illustrations : ] 6mo 198p — New York, published by Harper &. 
Brothers 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

The Young Schoolmistress : 16mo 11 7p — N. Y., pub- 
lished by Harper & Brothers : deposited by Harper & Brothers. 
ALriERi (Vittorio,) The Tragic Poet. The autobiography of Alfieri, born 
at Asti,1749, died at Florence, 1803, translated, with an 
original essay on the genius and times of Alfieri, by C. Edwards 
Lester : 12mo 269p — New York, published by Paine & Bur- 
gess: deposited by Paine & Burgess. 
Alsop (Samuel,) First lessons in Algebra, in which the elements of the 
science are familiarly explained: 12mo 116p — Philadelphia, 
published by E. C.'& J. Biddle, 1849 : deposited by Samuel 
Alsop, 

An elementary treatise on Algebra, in which the principles 
of the science are familiarly explained, and illustrated by 
numerous examples, designed for the use of schools : 12mo 
288p — Philadelphia, published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 1846 : 
deposited by E. C. & J. Biddle. 
American Quarterly Register [The] and Magazine, conducted by James 
Stryker : May, 1848, Vol 1, No 1 ; September, 1848, Vol 1, 
No 2 ; March, 1849, Vol 2, No 1 ; June, 1849, Vol 2, No 2 ; 
September, 1849, Vol 3, No 1 ; Vol 1, 8vo 608p : Vol 2, 8vo 



149 [ 1 ] 

G07p — Philadelphia, Vol 1, published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 
Vols 2, and o, puldished by the Proprietor, 1849 : dej)o- 
sited by Jaines Stryker. 
American Journal [The] of the Medical Sciences, edited by Isaac Hays, 
M. D. published quarterly, No 24, October, 1846 ; No 2^). 
January, 1848 ; No 30, April, 1848 : No 31, July, 1848 ; No 
32, October, 1848; No 33, January, 1849; No 34, April, 
1849 ; No 3o, July, 1849 ; No 36, October, 1849 — Philadel- 
phia, published by Lea & Blanchard : deposited by Lea «ic 
Blanchard, 

American's Offering [An], A Recitative Poem, on events of revolutionary 
times, dedicated to the American people, with historical notes 
and memoranda, illustrative of the truth of the poem, in five 
cantos : 8vo 40p — Philadelphia, 1849 : deposited by John 
M. Crosland. 

American Almanac and Repository of Useful Knowledge for the year 
1850: 12mo 348p — Boston, Published by C. C. Little & J. 
Brown, 1849 ; deposited by G. P. Sanger & F. E. Parker. 

Andrews (S. P.) and Boyle, (Augustus F.)) The Primary Phonotypic 
Reader for the use of schools and families; intended as intro- 
ductory exercises in analyzing spelling and reading for childre.n 
and educated adults : 12mo 35p — New York, published by 
Andrews & Boyle, 1847 ; deposited by Andrews & Boyl.e. 

The Phonographic Word-book, No 1, containing all the 
monosyllables of the English language, inductively arranged 
and classified according to the w^ords in which they should be 
written in Phonography, together with rules and ex))lanations ; 
designed immediately to succeed the Phonographic Class Book 
and the Phonographic Reader : 16mo 52p — N. York, published 
by Andrews & Boyle, 1849 ; deposited by Andrews & Boyle. 

The Phonographic Reader ; a complete course of inductive 
reading lessons in Phonography, eleventh edition ; 12mo (5()p 
— New York, published by Andrew^s & Boyle, 1848 ; deposited 
by Andiews & Boyle. 

The Phonographic Reporter's First Book ; containing a 
complete list of words — signs used in the most contracted 
style of Phonographic reporting ; illustrated by exercises for 
the use of those only who have thoroughly mastered the corres- 
ponding style of Phonography, as taught in the complete Pho- 
nographic Class Book and the Phonographic Reader : 12mo 
*287p: New York, published by Andrews & Boyle, 1848; de- 
posited by Andrews & Boyle. 

The complete Phonographic Class Book, containing a 
strictly inductive exposition of Pitman's Phonograj)hy, adapted 
as a system of Phonetic short hand to the English language, 
especially intended as a school book and to a (ibid the fullest 
instruction to those who have not the assistance of the living 
teacher; ekventh edition: 12mo 131p — New York, pub^ 
lished by Andrews & Boyle, 1848 ; deposited by Andrews &. 
Boyle- 



[ 1 ] 150 

Angell (Joseph K. ) A treatise on the law of Carriers of goods ami pas- 
sengers by land and by water : 8vo 791p — Boston, published 
by Little & Brown, 1849 ; deposited by J. K. Angell. 

Treatise on the right of property in tide waters, and 
in the soil and shores thereof; second edition, revised, corrected 
and much enlarged : 8vo 475p — Boston, published by Little 
& Brown, 1847 ; deposited by J. K. Angell. 

Ax\GELL (Oliver, A. M. ) Angell's Reader, No. 1, The Child's First book, 
complete in six numbers, new edition : 12mo 72p — Phila., pul». 
by E. H. Butler & Co., 1850 ; deposited by E. H. Butler. 

Angell's Reader, No. 2, The Child's Second book, 
new edition: 12mo 136p — Philadelphia, published by E. H- 
Butler & Co., 1849 ; deposited by E. H. Butler. 

Angell's Reader, No. 3, The Child's Third book, 
new edition : 12mo 206p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. 
Butler & Co., 1849 ; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co. 

Angell's Reader, No. 4, The Child's Fourth book, 
new edition: 12mo 252p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. 
Butler & Co., 1850; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co. 

Angell's Fifth Reader, new edition : 12mo 296p — 
Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1849 ; depo- 
sited by E. H. Butler. 

Angell's Reader, No. 6 ; The Select Reader, new 
edition t 12mo 504p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. But- 
ler & Co., 1849 ; depositedby E. H. Butler. 
Anthon ( Charles, LL. D. ) A system of Ancient and Mediaeval Geography ; 
8vo ( large ) 765p — New York, published by Harper & Bro- 
thers, 1850 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Key to Anthon's Latin Prose Composition : 12mo 94p 
— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849 ; depo- 
sited by Harper & Brothers. 
Arithmetic, Multum in Parvo : 8vo 4p. 

Arthur (T.S.) The Beautiful Widow : 8vo (pamphlet), 103p — Phila- 
delphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847 ; deposited by Carey 
&Hart. 

Debtor and Creditor, a Tale of the Times : 12mo 180p — 
New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; deposited 
by Baker & Scribner. 

Making Haste to be Rich, or. The Temptation and Fall : 
16mo 170p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; 
deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

Retiring from Business, or, The Rich Man's Error : 16vo 
• i(36p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848; 

deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

Wreaths of Friendship, a gift for the young, by T. S. Ar- 
thur and F. C. Woodworth : 12mo 240p — New York, pub- 
' lished by Baker & Scribner, 1849 ; deposited by Bak er & 

Scribner. 



151 [ 1 ] 

Arthur (T. S.) Riches have Wings, or, a Tale for the Rich and the Poor: 
l(3mo 19'2p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1847 ; 
deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

AsHMEAD (Catharine Forrester) Fallings fi'om a Lady's Pen : 8vo 85p — 
Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849 ; depo- 
sited by C. F. Ashmead. 

Baker (A. R.) The Catechism tested by the Bible, in two parts: part 1, 
Doctrinal ; part 2, Practical : part 1, 16mo 116p, part 2, 141p ; 
— Boston, published by John P. Jewett, 1849 ; deposited by 
A. R. Baker. 

Baldwin (Rev. P. C.) The Redemption of sinners by the Free Grace of 
God, or, the Doctrines of unconditioned Election, Perseverance 
of the Saints, Assurance, Hope, Sanctification and Glorification 
freely discussed : 12nio 298p — published by Henry Perkins, 
Philadelphia, 1849. 

Baptist Almanac [The] and Annual Register for the year of our Lord 
1850 — Thomas S. Malcom, Editor: 8vo 36p — Philadelphia 
American Baptist Publication Society. 

Barber (J. W.) Incidents in American History, compiled from the most 
approved authorities : 12mo 404p — New York, published by 
George F. Cooledge & Brother, 1847 ; deposited by Cooledge 
& Brother. 

Barbour (Oliver L.) Reports of cases in Law and Equity in the Supreme 
Court of the State of New York, Vols. 1, 2, 3 : 8vo large, 
Vol. 1, 720p ; Vol. 2, 723p ; Vol. 3, 696p — Albany, publish- 
ed by Gould, Banks & Gould, 1848; deposited by Gould, 
Banks & Gould. 

Reports of cases argued and determined in the court 
of Chancery of the State of New York, Vols. 1 and 3 : 8vo 
Vol. 1, 707p ; Vol. 3, 702p — New York, published by Banks, 
Gould & Co. 1847 ; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co. 

Barnard (Daniel D.) Discourse on the life and character of Stephen Van 
Rensselear : 8vo 144p — Albany. 

Barnes (Albert) Questions on the First Epistle to the Corinthians, de- 
signed for Bible classes and Sunday schools, adapted to the 
author's notes on that Epistle : 16mo lG3p — New York, pub- 
lished by Harper & Brothers, 1846; deposited by Harper k. 
Brothers. 

Barr (Robert T.) Pennsylvania State Reports ; Vol, 5, containing cases 
adjudged in the Supreme Court, during part of December term 
1846, March term, and part of June term 1847, and some pre- 
vious cases. Vol. 6, containing cases adjudged during part of 
May term, July term, and part of September term 1847. Vol. 
7, containing cases adjudged during part of September term and 
December term 1847, and March terra 1848. Vol. 8, con- 
taining cases adjudged during May term and part of July term 
1848. Vol. 9, containing cases adjudged during part of July 
term, September term and part of December terra 1848 : 8vo 
[large] Vol. 5, 566p ; Vol. 6, 572p ; Vol. 7, 576p ; Vol. 8, 



[ 1 ] 152 

55op; Vol. 9, 5o3p — Philadelphia, published by T. & J. W. 
Johnson ; deposited by T. & J. W. Johnson. 

Barrett (Solomon, Jr.,) The Principles of Grammar, being a compen- 
dious treatise on the languages, English, Latin and Greek, 
founded on the immutable principle of the relation which one 
word sustains to another ; revised edition : 12mo 204p — Al- 
bany, published by Joel Munsell, 1848 ; deposited by S. Bar- 
rett, Jr. 

Bartlett (Elisha, M. D.) The History, Diagnosis and Treatment of the 
fevers of the United States ; 8vo large, 547p — Philadelphia, 
published by Lea & Blanchard, 1847 ; deposited by Lea & 
Blanchard. 

Barton (Charles) History of a suit in equity from its commencement to its 
termination ; revised and enlarged, with forms of bills, plans, 
demurers and decrees, by James P. Holcombe, w^ith an appendix 
containing the ordinances of Lord Bacon, Rules of practice m 
Equity in the Circuit court of the United States and the English 
Orders in Chancery : 8vo large, 279p — Cincinnati, published 
by Derby, Bradley & Co., 1847 ; deposited by Derby, Brad- 
ley & Co. 

Bates (David) The Eolian : 12mo 210p — Philadelphia, published by 
Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849 ; deposited by Lindsay & Bla- 
kiston. 

Beck (Lewis C, M. D.) Botany of the United States north of Virginia, 
comprising descriptions of the flowering and fern-like plants, 
hitherto found in those states ; second edition, revised and en- 
larged : 12mo 471p — New York, published by Harper & Bro- 
thers; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Adulterations of various substances used in medi- 
cine and the arts, with the means of detecting them : 12mo 
333p — New York, published by Samuel S. & William Wood, 
1846 ; deposited by Lewis C. Beck, M. D. 

Beecher (Charles) The Incarnation, or. Pictures of the Virgin and her Son, 
with an introductory essay, by Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe ; 
16mo 227p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 
1849 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Beecher (Edward, D. D.) Baptism, with reference to its import and modes ; 
12mo 342p — New York, published by John Wiley, 1849 ; de- 
posited by Edward Beecher, D. D. 

Belknap (Jeremy, D. D.) Life of Jeremy Belknap, Historian of New 
Hampshire, with selections from his correspondence and other 
W'ritings, collected and arranged by his grand-daughter : 12mo 
253p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; 
deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Bell (John, M. D.) and Stokes (William, M. D.) Lectures on the theory 
and practice of Physic, fourth edition, revised and enlarged, 
two volumes: 8vo' large, Vol. 1, 784p ; Vol. 2, 976p — Phi- 
ladelphia, published by Edward Barrington & George D. Har- 
well, 1848 ; deposited by Barrington & Haswell. 



153 [ 1 ] 

Benedict (David) A general history of the Baptist denomination in 
America and other parts of the world ; third thousand : 8vo 
[large] 970p — New York, published l)y Lewis, Colby & Co., 
1848 ; deposited by Lewis, Colby & Co. 

Benner ( Enos ) Das neiie Buchstabir und Lesebuch zum Gebraneh 
Deutseher Volksschulen in Pennsylvanien und anderen Staaten : 
16mo 144p — Sumneytown, jii-nited by Samuel Diehl for Enos 
Benner, 1848 ; deposited by E. Benner. 

Bennett (James Arlington) The American system of Practical Book-keep- 
ing, twenty-eighth edition : 8vo large, 16()p — pul)lished by 
M. H. Newman, N. York, 1848 ; deposited by Sophia Bennett. 

Bentley (Rensselaer) The Pictorial Reader: 12mo 2o9p — New York, 
published by G. T. Cooledge & Brother ; deposited by R, 
Bentley. 

Bentz (L) Elements of Agriculture, for the use of primary and secondary 
schools, by L. Bentz of Fiance and A. J. Chretien de Roville ; 
approved and recommended by the Governmental Council of the 
department of the Meurthe. Translated and adapted to the ust- 
of the rural primary schools of the United States of America, 
by F. G. Skinner; 16mo 91p — Phih»delphia, published by 
Carey & Hart, 1849 ; deposited by F. G. Skinner. 

Bethune (George W., D. D.) The History of a Penitent, a guide for the 
enquiring: 12mo 264p — Philadelphia, published by Henry 
Perkins, 1848 ; deposited by G. W. Bethune, D. D. 

The British Female Poets, with biographical 
and critical notices: 8vo (large) 490]i — Philadelphia, pul>- 
lished by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1848 ; deposited by Lindsay & 
Blakiston. 
BiGLY (Cantell A.) Aurifodina, or. Adventures in the Gold Region : 12mo 
10:3p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849 ; de- 
posited by Baker & Scribner. 

BiscHOFF (T. L. G., D. M.) Tracts on Generation, translated from the 
German, by C. R. Gilman, M. D., and Theodore Tellkampf, 
M. D., number 1, [being] proofs that the periodic maturation 
and discharge of ova are in the mammalia, and the human fe- 
male, independent of coition, as the first condition of their pro- 
pagation, by T. L. G. Bischoff, I). M., professor of Physiology, 
&c., Giessen ; pamphlet 8vo 65p — New York, published by 
Samuel S. & William Wood, 1847 ; deposited by S. S. & Wm. 
Wood. 

Blackstone (Sir William, Kt.) Commentaries on the Laws of England, in 
four volumes with notes, adapting the work to the American 
student, by John L. Wendell ; 8vo (large) — New York, pub- 
lished by Harper & Brothers ; deposited by Harper & Bros. 

Blake (Rev. J. L., D. D.) The Juvenile Com})anion and Fire Side Reader : 
12mo 2o2p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers : 
deposited by J. L. Blake. 

A History of the American Revolution, first pub- 
lished in London under the superintendence of the Society for 



[ 1 ] 154 

the diffusion of useful Knowledge : 16mo 2o2p — New York, 
published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper 
& Brothers. 

Blanc (Lewis) History of the French Revolution of 1789, translated from 
the French, one volume in two parts : 8vo 582p — Philadel- 
phia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848 ; deposited by Lea 
& Blanchard. 

Blunt (Joseph) The Shipmasters' Assistant and Commercial Digest — New 
York, Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; deposited by J. Blunt. 

BoARDMAN (A) A defence of Phrenology : 12mo 222p — New York, pub- 
lished by Edward Kearney, 1847 ; deposited by A. Boardraan. 

BoKER (George H.) Anne Boleyn, a tragedy: 12mo 225p — Philadelphia, 
pubHshed by A. Hart, late Carey & Hart ; deposited by G. H. 
Boker. 

Calaynos, a tragedy, second edition : 12mo 218p — 
Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1848 ; depo- 
sited by G. H. Boker. 

Booth (James C, and Morfit) Campbell,) The Encyclopedia of Chemistry, 
theoretical and practical, with numerous engravings, (Nos. 14 
and 15 only received) : 8vo large — Philadelphia published 
by Carey & Hart ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

The Phonographic Instructor, with engraved illustrations : 
12mo 78p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 
1849 ; deposited by J. C. Booth. 

Boston Massacre, — A short narrative of the horrid massacre in Boston, 
perpetrated in the evening of the 5th day of March, 1770, by 
soldiers of the 29th regiment : 8vo large, 122p — printed by 
order of the town of Boston, in 1770 ; re-published at New 
York with notes and illustrations, by John Doggett, Jr., 1849 ; 
deposited by John Doggett, Jr. 

BoSTWiCK (Homer, M. D.) A complete practical work on the nature and 
treatment of venereal diseases : 4to 347p — New York, pub- 
lished by Burgess, Stringer & Co., 1848 ; deposited by H. Bost- 
wick. 

Eouvier (John) A Law Dictionary, adapted to the Constitution and Laws 
of the United States of America, and of the several States of the 
American Union ; third edition much improved and enlarged, 
two volumes; 8vo (large) Vol. 1, 756p ; Vol. 2, 757p — Phi- 
ladelphia, published by T. & J. W. Johnson ; deposited by J. 
Bouvier. 

BowEN (Mark Noble) Memoranda on Anatomy, Surgery and Physiology : 
16mo 325p — New York, published by Samuel S. & Wilhain 
Wood, 1848 ; deposited by Samuel S.'& William Wood. 

BoYB (Hev. J, K.) Eclectic Moral Philosophy : 12mo 423p — New York, 
published by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper 
& Brothers. 

Brightly (Frederick C) A Practical Treatise on the Law of Costs in Penn- 
sylvania : 8vo large, 412p — Philadelphia, published by James 



155 [ 1 ] 

Kay, Jr. & Brother, 1S47 ; deposited by James Kay, Jr. & 

Brother. 
Brightly (Frederick C.) Supplement to Pardon's Digest : 8vo large, 

lOOp — Philadelphia ; deposited hy F. V. Brightly. 
Brisbane (William Heni'v) Slaveholding examined in the light of the Holy 

Bible : IGnio" 222p — published at Philadelphia^ 1847. 

Brooks (N. C.) A complete History of the Mexican War, its causes, con- 
duct, and consequences, illustrated and explained by maps, plans 
of battles, views and portraits : 8vo large, OoSp — Philadel- 
phia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1849 ; deposited by 
Hutchuison & Seal)old. 

Brown (James) An English Grammar in three books, (second book only 
received): 12mo o87p — Philadelphia, published by John T. 
Lange, 1849 ; deposited by James Brown. 

The first round in the ladder of Education : 12mo 36p — 
Philadelphia, published by John T. Lange, 1849 ; deposited by 
James Brown. 

The second round in the ladder of Education: 12mo 120p 
— Philadelphia, published by John T. Lange, 1849 ; deposited 
by James Brown. 

Browne (D. G.) The Trees of America, native and foreign, pictorially and 
botanically delineated, and scientifically and popularly described: 
8vo large, • — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 
1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Browne (J. Ross) Etchings of a Whaling Cruise, with notes of a sojourn 
on the Island of Zanzibar, to which is appended a brief history 
of the whale fishing, its past and present condition, illustrated 
, with numerous engravings on steel and wood ; 8vo large — 

New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposite<l 
by Harper & Brothers. 
Bryant (William Cullen) Poems, with illustrations, by E. Leutze, engraved 
by American artists, second edition — Philadelphia, published 
by Carey & Hart, 1847 ; deposited by W. C. Bryant. 
Bullions (Rev. Peter, D. D.) Practical lessons in English Grammar and 
Composition, being an introduction to the Principles of 
English Grammar, eighth edition revised : 12mo 132 p — New 
York, pul)lished by Pratt, W^oodford & Co., 1844; deposited 
by P. Bullions. 

The principles of English Grammar, nine- 
teenth edition, revised and corrected : 8vo 216p — New York, 
published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1846 ; deposited by P. 
Bullions. 

An Analytical and Practical Grammar of 
the English language : 12mo 240p — New York, published by 
Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1849-; deposited by P. Bullions. 

The principles of the Latin Grammar, four- 
teenth edition : 8vo 312p — New York, published by Pratt, 
Woodford & Co., 1846 ; deposited by P. Bullions. 



[ 1 ] 156 

Bullions (Rev. Peter, D. D.) The principles of the Greek Grammar, 
twelfth edition revised and improved: 8vo 312p — N. York, 
published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847 ; deposited by 
Peter Bullions. 

A Greek Reader, with notes critical ar;d 
explanatory, second edition revised and corrected : Bvo /339p 
— New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1846; 
deposited by P. Bullions. 

The first part of Jacob's Latin Reader, 
adapted to Bullion's Latin Grammar, sixth edition revised and 
corrected : 8vo 836p — New York, published by Pratt, Wood- 
ford & Co., 1846 ; deposited by P. Bullions. 

The first six books of Caesar's Commenta- 
ries on the Gallic War, adapted to Bullion's Latin Grammar, 
fourth edition revised and corrected : Bvo 312p — New York, 
published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847 ; deposited by P. 
Bullions. 

BuRDETT (Charles, Esq.) Arthur Martin, or, the Mothers' Trials : 16mo 
225p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; 
deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

The Gambler, or, the Policeman's Story: 16mo 
179p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; 
deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

BuRKHARDT (C. B.) Fairy Tales and Legends of Many Nations, selected 
newly told and translated : 12mo 277p — New York, published 
by Baker & Scribner, 1849 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

Burleigh (Joseph Bartlett, A. M.) The American Manual, containing a 
brief outline of the origin and progress of political power and 
the laws of nations, a Commentary on the Constitution of the 
United States, and a lucid exposition of the duties and respon- 
sibilities of voters, jurors, magistrates, &c. : 12mo — Philadel- 
phia, Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1848 ; wdth an appendix of 54p ; 
deposited by J. B. Burleigh. 

Burton (W. C.) Waggeries and Vagaries, a series of sketches, humorous 
and descriptive, wdth eight original illustrations by Darly, 
(two copies) ; 12mo 191p — Philadelphia, published by Cart^y 
& Hart, 1848 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Bushnell (Horace) God in Christ, three discourses delivered at New 
Haven, Cambridge and Andover, with a preliminary disserta- 
tion on language : 12mo 3o6p — Hartford, published by Brown 
& Parsons, 1849 ; deposited by H. Bushnell. 

Butler (Philip) Hobart's Analysis of Bishop Butler's Analogy of religion, 
natural and revealed to the constitution and course of nature, 
with notes ; also, Chanfurd's questions for examination ; 12mo 
228p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; 
deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Caloric — Origin, matter and law of the Universe : 8vo (large) 65p — 

New Orleans, 1847. 
Campbell (Mrs. Maria) Revohitionary services and civil life of General 



157 [ I 1 

William Hull, by his daughter, with the History of the cam- 
paion of 1812, and surrender of Detroit : 8vo large — New- 
York, published by D. Appleton & Co., 1848 ; deposited by E. 
F. C'ainpl>ell. 
Campbell (William W.) The border warfare of New York, daring the 
Revolution, or, the annals of Tryon county : 12mo 396p — 
New York, published by Baker and Scribner, 1849 ; deposited 
by Baker & Scribner. 

Life and writings of De Witt Clinton ; 8vo 381p 
— New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849; depo- 
sited by Baker & Scribner. 
Carey (Ahce and Phrebe) Poems: 12mo 264p — Philadelphia, published 

by Moss & Brother, 18-50 ; deposited by Moss & Brother. 
Carey (Henry C.) The Past, the Present, and the Future: 12mo 474p — 
Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1848 ; deposited by 
H. C. Carey. 
Carlton (James Henry) The Battle of Buena Vista, with the operations 
of the " Army of Occupation" for one month : Kimo 2o8p — 
New York, published by Harper «Sc Brothers, 1848 ; deposite 
by Harper & Brothers. 
Catechism of the Protestant Episcopal Church, simplified by question and 
answer, by a meml)er of the diocese of South Carolina ; IGmo 
4'jp — New York, jiublished by the General Protestant Episco- 
pal Sunday School Union, 1846. 
Chambers (William and Robert.) Chambers educational course, edited by 
D. M. Reese, M. D. 

No. 1 — Treasury of knowledge, in three parts, by W. & R. 

Chambers ; Part 1, elementary lessons in common things : 

90p. Part 2, practical lessons in common objects ; 167p. 

Part 3, introduction to the Sciences, loGp. 

No. 2 — Elements of drawing in two parts, by John Clark, 

48p. Exercises, 187p. 
No. 3 — Elements of Natural Philosophy, by W. & R. Cham- 
bers ; Part 1, laws of matter and motion, 9Sp. Part 2, 
Mechanics, lOSp. Part 3, hydrostatics, hydraulics and 
pneumatics, 107p. 
No. 4 — Chemistry and Electricity, 411p. Part 1, Chemis- 
try, by B. D. Reid. Part 2, Electricity, by Alexander 
Bain. 
No. '") — Elements of Physiology, by G. Hamilton ; Part 1, 

Vegetable, lG2p. Part 2, Animal, 144p. 
No. 6 — Elements of ZoiUogy, '335p. 
No. 7 — Elements of Geology, by D. Paige, 332p. 

7 yolumes 12mo — New York, A. S. Barnes & Co., 1849] 
deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co. 
Chapman (J. G.) American Drawing Book, No. 3 : perspectiye 4to 158p 

— New York, published by J. S. Redfield ; cleposited by J. G. 
Chapman. 

American Drawing Book, No. 2, Elementary : 4to 112p 

— NcNv York, published by J. S. Redfield, 1847 ; deposited by 
J. G. Chapman. 



[1] 



158 



Chase (Stephen) A Treatise on Algebra, for the use of Schools and Col- 
leges : 12ino 38op — New York, published by D. Appleton & 
Co., 1849 ; deposited by S. Chase. 

Cheever (Rev. Henry T.) The Whale and his captors, or, the Whale- 
man's Adventures, and the Whale's biography, with engra- 
vings : 16mo 314p — New York, published by Harper & Bro- 
thers, 1850 ; deposited by Harper &l Brothers. 

Cheever (George B., D. D.) Windings of the river of the Water of Life in 
the development, discipline and fruits of Faith : 12mo 384p — 
New York, published by John Wiley, 1849 ; deposited by G. 
B. Cheever. 

The Hill Difficulty, and some experiences of life 
in the plains of Ease, with other miscellanies : 12mo 38op — 
New York, published by John Wiley, and at London by Sims, 
1849 ; deposited by G. B. Cheever. 

Chester (Stephen M.) Columbian Magazine for June, July and August 
1848, Nos. 6, 7, and 8, Vol. 9, edited by S. M.' Chester: 8vo 
— New York, published by John S. Taylor. 

Childe (E. V.) Edward Vernon, my cousin's story : 16mo 194p — New 
York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; deposited by 
Harper & Brothers. 

Chitty (Joseph, Esq.) A practical treatise on the criminal law, with com- 
prehensive notes on each particular offence. The process, in- 
dictment, plea, defence, evidence, trial, verdict, judgment, and 
punishment, in three volumes ; fifth American, from the second 
and last London edition, corrected and enlarged by the author, 
with notes and corrections by Richard Peters and Thomas 
Huntington, Esqrs., to which are now added notes and refer- 
ences to the cases decided in the courts of the United States, 
and of the several States to the present time, as well as the 
late English decisions ; by J. C. Perkins, counsellor at law : 
8vo large. Vol. 1, 994p ; Vol. 2, 5o8p ; Vol. 3, 723p — New 
York, published b}^ Banks, Gould & Co., 1847 ; deposited by 
Banks, Gould & Co. 

A practical treatise on bills of exchange, with refer- 
ences to the law of Scotland, France and America ; eleventh 
American from the ninth London edition, containing the 
American notes of former editions, by Judge Story and others, 
to which are now added the cases decided in the English courts, 
the courts of the United States, and of the several States to the 
present time, by J. C. Perkins: 8vo (large) 932p — Spring- 
field, published by G. & C. Merriam, 1849 ; deposited by G. 
& C. Merriam. 

Christ — The sufferings of, by a layman : 12mo 328p — New York, pub- 
by Harper & Brothers, 1845 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers, 

Christian Keepsake and missionary annual for 1849 : 12mo 329p — Phila- 
delphia, published by Bower, Hayes & Co., 1849 ; deposited 
by E. H. Butler & Co. 

Christian (Robert) A dispensatory or commentary on the Pharmacopoeias 



159 [ 1 ] 

of Great Britain and the United States ; second edition revised 
and improved, with a supplement containing the most import- 
ant new remedies, with copious achlitions and two hundred and 
thirteen ilhistrations, by Eglestehl Griffith, M. D. : 8vo large, 
lOOSp — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848 ; 
deposited by Lea & Blanchard. 
Christmas Blossoms and New Year's Wreath for 1849, by Uncle Thomas ; 
12mo 176p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co. ; 
deposited by E. H. Butler & Co. 

The same for 1850 : 12mo 176p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by E. H. Butler & Co., 1850 ; deposited by E. H. But- 
ler & Co. 

Christmas Carol for 1847, illustrated by T. C. Boyd — New York, 
Daniel Dana, publisher, 1847 ; deposited by John M. Mitchell. 

Chubbuck (Fanny) Memoir of Sarah B. Judson, member of the American 
mission to Burmah, by Fanny Forrester — eighth thousand : 
16mo 250p — New York, published by L. Colby & Co., 1848. 

Churchill (Fleetwood, M. D.) On the theory and practice of midwifery, 
with notes and additions by R. M. Huston, M. D. ; third 
American edition, revised and improved by the author, wdth one 
hundred and twenty-eight illustrations, from drawings by Bagg 
and others, engraved by Gilbert: 8vo 525p — Philadelphia, 
published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848 ; deposited by Lea &, 
Blanchard. 

Cicero (Marcus Tullius) The De Senectute, De Amicia, Paradoxia, and 
Somnium Scipionis of Cicero, and the life of Atticus, by Corne- 
lius Nepos, with English notes, critical and explanatory, by 
Charles Anthon, LL. D. : 8vo 349p — New York, published 
by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

The three Dialogues of Cicero on the Orator ; translated into 
English by W. Guthrie, revised and corrected with notes, sec- 
ond American edition : 16mo 346p — New York, published by 
Harper &. Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 
Clark (John) Elements of drawing, in tw^o parts ; embracing exercises for 
the slate and black-board, edited by D. M. Reese, M. D. (See 
Chambers' Educational course) ; 12mo 87p — New York, pub. 
by A. S. Barnes & Co, 1849 ; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co. 

Cleveland (Charles Dexter) A compendium of English literature, chrono- 
logically arranged, from Sir John Mandeville to William Cow- 
per: 12mo 702p — Philadelphia, published by E. C. & J. 
Biddle, 1847 ; deposited by C. D. Cleveland. 

Clinton (De Witt) The life and writings of, by Wm. W. Campbell : 8vo 
38ip — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849; 
deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

Coates (Reynell, M. D.) Leaflets of memory, an illuminated annual fc r 
1850: 8vo large, 312p — Philailelphia, published by E. H. 
Butler & Co., 1850 ; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co. 

Same for 1849 — Philadelphia, published by E. H. 
Butler & Co. ; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co. 



[ I ] 160 

Colby (H. G. O.) The practice in civil actions and proceedings at law in 
Massachusetts, with copious references to decisions in New 
Hampshire, Maine, &c. ; 8vo large, olop — Boston, published 
by Little & Brown, 1848 ; deposited by H. G. O. Colby. 

Cole (S. W.) A book for every farmer — the American Veterinarian, or, 
diseases of domestic animals : 12mo 288p — Boston, published 
by John P. Jewett & Co, 1847 ; deposited by S. W. Cole. 

A book for everybody — the American fruit book : 12mo 288p 

— Boston, published by John P. Jewett, 1849 ; deposited by S. 

W. Cole. 

Coleman (Lyman) An historical geography of the Bible, illustrated by 

maps: 12mo 489p — Philatlelphia, published by E. H. Butler 

& Co., 1849 ; deposited by Lyman Coleman. 

Collins (Lewis) Historical sketches of Kentucky, embracing its history, 
antiquities and natural curiosities, with anecdotes of pioneer 
life, illustrated by forty engravings : 8vo (large) 560p — Mays- 
ville, published by Lewis Collins ; deposited by L. Collins. 

Collins (Stephen, M. A.) Miscellanies, second edition : 12mo 308p — 
Philadelphia, pubHshed by Carey & Hart, 1845 ; deposited by 
S. Collins. 

CoLMAN (Henry) European life and manners, in famihar letters to friends : 
two volumes ; 8vo Vol. 1, 360p ; Vol. 2, 392p — Boston, pub- 
lished by Little & Brown, 1849 ; deposited by H. Colman. 

European agriculture and rural economy, from personal 
observations, two volumes, second edition, with additions : 8vo 
Vol. 1, 492p; Vol. 2, o88p — Boston, published by Little & 
Browai, 1849 ; deposited by H. Colman. 

CoLTON (Calvin) Public economy for the United States : 8vo 036p — pub- 
lished by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1848 ; deposited by C. Colton. 

CoLTON (Rev. C. C, A. M.) Lacon — many things in few words, addressed 
to those who think, revised edition with an index : 12mo 504p 
— New York, pubhshed by Wm. Gowans, 1849 ; deposited by 
Wm. Gowans. 

CoMSTOCK (J. L., M. D.) A system of Natural Philosophy, illustrated by 
more than two hundred and fifty engravings, with questions for 
the examination of pupils, ninety-second edition : 8vo 360p — 
New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co, 1847 ; depo- 
sited by J. L. Comstock. 

Same, ninety-first edition, illustrated by nearly 
three hundred engravings ; 8vo 393p — New York, published 
by Pratt, Woodford & Co. 1848; deposited by J. L. Comstock, 

Elements of chemistry, illustrated by numerous en- 
gravings, sixteenth edition from the 54th ; 8vo 422p — New 
York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847 ; deposited 
by D. F. Robinson. 

An introduction to the study of botany, including a 
treatise on vegetable physiology, fifteenth edition ; 8vo 485p — 
New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co. ; deposited by 
J. L. Comstock. 



IGl [ 1 ] 

COMSTOCK (J. L., M. D.) Elements of Geology, including fossil botany and 
palaeontology, a popular treatise ; Hvo 432p — New York, pub- 
lished by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847; deposited by J. L. 
Comstock. 

An introduction to Mineralogy, adapted to the use 
of Schools and Juvenile students, illustrated l)y nearly two- 
hundred wood cuts, twelfth edition: 8vo 8(i9p — New York, 
published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1847 : deposited by Rob- 
inson, Pratt & Co. 

Outlines of Physiology, both comparative and human, 

together with a synopsis oi human anatomy, illustrated by 

numerous engravings, revised edition : 8vo 860p — New York, 

published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1848 : deposited by J. 

* L. Comstock. 

Natural History of Quadrupeds, with engravings, 
on a new plan ; exhibiting their comparative size : 4to 73p — 
New York, published by Pratt, W^oodford & Co., 1848 : depo- 
sited by J. L. Comstock. 

Comstock (Andrew, M. D.) Phonetic Magazine for July and August 1847, 
and for February 1S48 : 8vo — Philadelphia, published by A. 
Comstock, M. D., 1849 : deposited by A. Comstock. 

CoNKLiNG (Alfred,) The jurisdiction, law and practice of the courts of the 
Uniteil State's, in admiralty and maritime causes, including 
those of quasi admiralty jurisdiction arising under the act of 
February 26, 1845, with an appendix, containing the new rules 
of admiralty practice prescribed by the Supreme Court of the 
United States, with numerous practical forms, &c. : 8vo large, 
9o0p — Albany, published by W. C. Little & Co., 1848 : de- 
posited by Alfred Conkling. 

CooKE (Philip Pendleton,) Froissart ballads and other poems : 12mo 210{) 
— Philadelphia, iKiblished by Carey & Hart, 1847 ; deposited 
by Carey & Hart. 

Cooper (J. Fennimore,) The Crater, or vulcan peak, a tale of the Pacific, 
in two volumes: 12mo Vol. 1, 2:34p Vol, 2, 227p — New- 
York, published by Burgess, Stringer & Co., 1847 ; deposited 
by J. F. Cooper. 

CoPWAY ( George, ) Life, history and travels of Ka-ge-ga-gah-bowh, 
[George Copway,] a young Indian Chief of the Ojil)wa nation, 
a convert to the Christian faith and a missionary 1o his people 
for twelve years ; 8vo 224p — Albany, puldished by Weed & 
Parsons, 1847 ; deposited by George Copway. 

Corson (John W,) Loitei-ings in Europe, or Sketches of travel in France, 
Belgium, Switzerland, Italy, Austria, Prussia, Great Britain 
and Ireland : 12mo 31)7p -^ New York, published by Harper 
& Brothers, IStS ; (k-posited by Harper & Brothers. 

CoxE (John Redman,) The writings of Hippocrates and Galen epitomized 
from the original Latin translations : 8vo large, 681p — Phi- 
ladelphia, |Mil)lished by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1846 ; deposited g 
by J. R. Coxe. ' ^ 

Mis.— 11. 



[ 1 ] 162 

C'kaig (R. D.) and Phillips (T. J. Esq.) Reports of cases argued and de- 
termined ill the High Court of Chancery: during the time of 
Lord Chancellor Cottenham, [See Dunlap.] 8vo large, 391p 

— New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1847 ; de- 
posited by Banks, Gould & Co. 

Crittenden (S. W.) An inductive and practical treatise on book-keeping, 
by single and double entry: 8vo large, 248p — Philadelphia, 
published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 1849 ; deposited by S. W. 
Crittenden. 

Ckowell (Rev. John) Republics established, and Thrones overturned by 
the Bible : 12ino 202p — Philadelphia, published by John T. 
Lange, 1849 ; deposited by John Crowell. 

( 'ruise (William, Esq.) A digest of the law of real property, revised and 
considerably enlarged, by Henry H. White, Esq. ; furth?r re- 
vised and abridged, with additions and notes for the use of 
American students, by Simon Greenleaf, LL. D., in 7 volumes : 
Vol.1, ccntaiuing a preliminary dissertation en Tenures: 
title 1, estate in fee simple; 2, estate in tail; 3, estate for 
life ; 4, estate tail after possibility ; 5, curtesy ; 6, dower ; 7, 
jointure ; 8, estate for years ; 9, estate at will and at suffer- 
ance ; 10, copyhold ; 11, uses ; 12, trust. 

Vol. 2, containing — 13, estate on condition ; 14, estate by 
statute, merchant, &c. ; 15, mortgage ; 16, remainder ; 17, re- 
version ; 18, joint tenancy ; 19, coparcenary ; 20, tenancy in 
common : two volumes bound in one : 8vo large, Vol. 1, 434p ; 
Vol. 2, 408p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1849 j 
deposited by Simon Greenleaf. 

CrKTis (George T.)The American Conveyancer, containing a large variety 
of legal forms and instruments adapted to popular wants and 
professional use throughout the United States : 12mo — Boston, 
published by Little & Brown, 1847 ; deposited by Little & 
Brown. 

A treatise on the law of patents for useful inventions 
in the United States of America : 8vo large, 604p — Bos- 
ton, published by Little & Brown, 1849 ; deposited by G.T. 
Curtis. 

CiHWEN, (M. E.) A revising index to the statute law of Ohio, showing the 
present state of the law by indicating the changes that have 
been made since the publication of Swan's statutes : 8vo 90p 

— Dayton, published by Wilson & Decker, 1849 ; deposited 
by M. E. Curwen. 

(iTTER (Calvin, M. D.) First book on anatomy, ph3siology and hygiene, 
for grammar schools and families, eighty-three engravings, ste- 
reotyi)e edition : 12mo 189p — Boston, published by Benjamin 
B. Mussey & Co., 1849 ; deposited l)y C. Cutter. 

A treatise on anatomy, physi(,>logy and hygiene, 
with one-hundred and fifty engravings, stereotype edition : 8vo 
458p — Boston, published by Benjamin Mussey & Co., 1849 ; 
deposited by C. Cutter, M. D. 

Cl'tter (William) The life of Israel Putnam, Major General in the army 



163 [ 1 ] 

of the American Revolution, compiled from the best author- 
ities : l:2mo 3!Sop — New York, pul)lislie(l l)y G. F. Coolt'diT'; 
& Brother, 1847 ; deposited by G. F. Cooledge, 1847. 

The life of General Lafayette : 12mo 4()8p — New- 
York, published by G. F. Cooledge & J3roilier, 1849 ; deposi- 
ted by George F. Cooledge & Brother. 

CuTTS (James Madison) The conquest of California and New Mexico, by 
the forces of the United States, in the years 184G and 1847 : 
with engravings, &c. : 12mo !264p — Philadelphia, published 
by Carey &, Hart, 1847 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Darlington (William, M. D., LL. D.) Memorials of John Bartram and 
Humphrey Marshall, with notices of their botanical contempo- 
raries, with illustrations : 8vo large, 585p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849 ; depositeil by Lindsay 8c 
Blakiston. 

Davies (Charles, LL. D.) The Arithmetical table-book, or, the method of 
teaching the combinations of figures by sight ; IGmo 72p — New 
York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1848 ; deposited by 
C. Davies. 

First lessons in Arithmetic, designed for beginners : 
16mo 168p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 
1849 ; deposited by C. Davies. 

Arithmetic, designed for academies and schools, 
Avith full illustrations of the method of cancellation, revised 
edition; 12mo oOOp — New York, ])ublished by A. S. Barnes 
& Co., 1848 ; deposited by Charles Davies. 

Davis (Andrew Jackson) The principle of nature, her divine revelations, 
and a voice to mankind, by and through A. J. Davis, in three 
parts, third edition : 8vo large — New York, pul)lished by 
8. S. Lyons & William Fishbough, 1847 ; deposited by S. S. 
Lyons & William Fishbough. 

Davis (N. S., M. D.) A text book on agriculture : 8vo 187p — N. York, 
published by Samuel S. & William Wood, 1848 ; deposited by 
N. S. Davis. 

Day (Thomas,) Reports of cases argued and determined in the Supreme 
court of errors of the State of Connecticut, in five volumes, 
second edition, with notes and references : 8v() large, Vol. 
1, r)08p ; Vol. 2, 737p ; Vol. 3, Gotip ; Vol. 4, 627p ; Vol. f), 
(i:i9p — New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1848 : 
deposited by Banks, Gould & Co. 

Denio (Hiram,) Reports of cas-s argued and determined in the Supreme 
Court and in the court for the correction of errors, in tlie State 
of New York : 8vo [large] Vol. 2, 079p ; Vol. 3, (i lip : Vol. 
4, (i3lp — Albany, published by Gould, Banks (fc (iould : de- 
posited by (iould," Banks & Gould, Vol. 2, L847 ; Vol. 3, 1848 ; 
Vol. 4, 1849. 

Denman. — The Obstetrical Remembrancer, augmented by Michael Ryan, 
M. D., first American from the ninth London edition, with ad- 
ditions by Thomas F. Cock, M. D. : IGmo 2o8p — New York, 



[ 1 ] 164 

published by Samuel S. & William M. Wood, 1848 ; deposited 
by Samuel S. & William M. Wood. 
Description of Oregon and California, embracing an account of the gold 
regions, to which is added an appendix, containing descriptions 
of various kinds of gold and methods of testing its genuine- 
ness, with a large and accurate map of Oregon and California, 
compiled from the latest authorities : 18mo 76p — Philadelphia, 
published by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co., 1849 ; deposited 
by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co. 

Deville (F.) Theoretical and practical exposition of the diseases of the 
hair, by F. Deville: [pamphlet] 8vo 70p — Baltimore, pub- 
lished by Joseph Robinson, 1849 ; deposited by F. Deville. 

Dewey (D. M.) Rail road Hand book from Albany to Buffalo, corrected 
and revised by gentlemen of the rail road : 16mo 32p — Roches- 
ter, published by D. M. Dewey, 1849 ; deposited by D. M. 
Dewey. 

Dickson (Samuel M,. M. D.) The principles of the Chronothermal system of 
medicine, with the fallacies of the faculty, in a series of lec- 
tures; first American from the third London, People's edition, 
with an introduction and notes, by William Turner, M. D. : 8vo 
228p — New York, published by J. S. Redfield, 1845. 

DiSTURNELL (J.) A guide between Washington, Baltimore, Philadelphia, 
New York andBoston ; tables of distances, &c — also routes of 
travel between Boston and Buffalo, and from New York to 
Montreal, two copies: 18mo 62p — 1846. Also one copy for 
June 1846, 79p — one for September 1846, 79p — one for 
January 1847, 79p — New York, published by J. Disturnell : 
deposited by J. Disturnell. 

United States Almanac and National Register for the year 
1850 ; 16mo lOUp — New York, published by J. Disturnell : 
deposited by J. Disturnell. 

The Eastern Tourist, being a guide through the States of 
Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Vermont, New 
Hampshire and Maine — also, a dash into Canada : 16mo — 
New York, published by J. Disturnell, 1848; deposited by J. 
Disturnell. 

The Emigrant's Guide to New Mexico, California and 
Oregon : IGmo 45p — New York, published by J. Disturnell ; 
deposited by J. Disturnell. 

Guide through the m.iddle, northern and eastern States, 
with a map, for July 1847 : 80p — also, one copy for June 
1848, 16mo 79p — New York, published by J. Disturnell ; de- 
posited by J. Disturnell. 

Railroad, Steamboat and Telegraph book, being a guide 
through the middle, northern and eastern States and Canada — 
also, giving the great lines of travel south and west, and the 
ocean steam packet arrangements, &c., telegraph lines and 
charges, &c., with a map, January 1849 : 16mo 80p — New 
York, published by J. Disturnell ; deposited by J. Disturnell. 
Also extra No. for' May 1849 — 16mo 88p. 



165 [1 ] 

DoDD (Jamt'S B., A. M.) An elenientary and practical arithmetic: l'2mo 244]) 
— New York, published by Pratt, VVoodiord & Co., 4849 ; de- 
})Osited by James B. Dodd. 

DoGGETT (John, Jr.,) New York City Partnership Directory for 1849 and 
1850 : 8vo 50p' — New York, published by J. Doggett ; depos- 
ited by J. Doggett. 

New York City Directory for 1849 and 48o(), 
eighth publication : 8vo 468p — New York, published by .J . 
Doggett Jr., & Co. ; deposited by J. Doggett, Jr. 

DoNono (Thomas, S.) Moena, and other jioems : 12mo 144p — Washing- 
ton, published by William M. Morrison, 1847 ; deposited by 
Thomas S. Donoho. 

Draper (John William, M. D.) A Text Book of Natural Philosophy foi- 
the use of schools and colleges, containing the most recent dis- 
coveries and facts, compiled from the best authorities, by John 
William Draper, M. D. &c., with nearly four-hundred illustra- 
tions : 12mo 381p — New York, Harper & Brothers publishers, 
1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

A text book on Chemistry, with nearly three hun- 
dred illustrations, third edition: 8vo 408p — New York, pub- 
lished by Harper & Brothers, 4847 ; deposited by Harper it 
Brothers. 

DauiTT (Robc'rt,) The Principles and Practice of Modern Surgery, a new 
American from the last and improved London edition, edited 
by F. W. Sargent, M. D., illustrated by one-hundred and nine- 
ty-three wood engravings, two copies : 8vo 576p — Philadel- 
phia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 4848 ; deposited by Lea 
& Blanchard. 

DuANE, (William, Esq.,) A View of the Lav/ of roads, higlnvays, bridges 
and ferries in Pennsylvania : 8vo 4oGp — Philadelphia, pul)lished 
by James Kay, Jr. & Brother, 1848 ; deposited by James Kay, 
Jr. & Brother. 

Duff (P.) North American Accountant, embracing single and double entry 
book-keeping, in two parts : 8vo large, 492p — New York, 
published by the author, 1848 ; deposited by P. Duff. 

DuxGLisoN (Robley, M. D.) Medical Lexicon; a Dictionary of Medical 
science, containing a concise explanation of the various sub- 
jects and terms, with the French and other synonyms, notices 
of climates and celebrated mineral waters ; formulae for various 
officinal and empii'ical preparations, &c., seventh edition, care- 
fully revised and greatly enlarged : 8vo large, 912p — Phila- 
delphia, published by Lea & Bbinchard ; deposited by Lea ^ 
Blanchard. 

DuNLAP (John A.) Rei)orts of cases decided in the high court of chanceiy, 
with notes and references, to both Fnglish and American de- 
cisions. Vol. 18, containing Mylne & Craig's chancery re- 
ports, Vol. 4 — Craig & Phillip's Vol. 1, 1838, 1839, 1840, 
1841 — second, third and fourth Victoria. Vol. 29, containing 
Bevan's Rolls Reports, Vol. 7, 1843, 1844, seven and eigiit 
Victoria. Vol. 30, containing Hare's chancery repor*" 



[ 1 ] 166 

4, 1844, 1845, 1846, seven, eight and nine Victoria. Vol. 20, 
containing Young & Collyer's reports, Vol.1; 8vo large — 
New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1847 ; Vol. 20 
in 1849 ; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co. 

DuNLop (James) The general laws of Pennsylvania from the year 1700 to 
April 184v), chronologically arranged, with notes and refer- 
ences to all the decisions of the Supreme courts of Pennsyl- 
vania, giving construction to said laws, with a copious ant! 
minute index, second edition : 8vo large — Philadlphia, 
published by T. & J. W. Johnson, 1849 : deposited by T. & J. 
W. Johnson. 

Dunning (A. G., A. M.) An ancient, classical and scriptural Geography, 
with a map of the countries mentioned in the ancient, classics 
and sacred scriptures : 4to 36p — New York, published by A. 

5. Barnes & Co., 1850 ; deposited by F. H. Brooks. 
.DuRiVAGE (Francis A.) and Burniiam (George P.) vStray subjects arrested 

and bound over, being the fugitive offspring of the "Old 'un" 
and the " Young 'un," that have been lying round loose, and 
are now tied up for fast keeping, illustrated by Darley : 
12mo 199p — Philadelphia, publisheil by Carey & Hart, 1848 ; 
deposited by Carey & Hart. 

]3vviGHT (M. A.) Grecian and Roman Mythology, with an introductory 
notice by Professor Taylor Lewis, and a series of illustrations 
in outline : 12mo 437p — New York, published by George P. 
Putnam, 1849 ; deposited bv George P. Putnam. 

DvEiNG AND Calico Printing — A practical treatise on dyeing and calico 
printing, including the earliest inventions and improvements, by 
an experienced dyer, assisted by several scientific gentlemen, 
with engravings on steel and wood : 8vo large, 704p — 
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited 
by Harper & Brothers. 

Dyer (Sidney,) Voices of Nature and Thoughts in Rhyme : 8vo 156p — 
Louisville, published by J. V. Cowlings & G. C. Davis, 1849 ; 
deposited by S. Dyer. 

Earle (Thomas) The Systematic Speller, part first : 16mo 72p — Phila- 
delphia, published by T. C. Chapman, 1848 ; deposited by T. 
Earle. 

Eastman (Mrs. Mary) Dahcotah, or life and legends of the Sioux around 
Fort Snelling, with preface, prepared by Mrs. C. M. Kirkland, 
illustrated with (h-awings by Captain Eastman: 8vo 268p — 
New York, published by John Wiley, 1849; deposited by J. 
Wiley. 

Edelman (George W.) Rules for converting sterling into currency, and 
currency into sterling, from par to twelve and one-half per 
cent., increasing by one-fourth of one per cent : 12mo 40p — 
Philadelphia, ])ub]ished by H. L. Lipman, 1849 ; deposited by 
George W. Edelman. 

Edmonds (Hon. J. W.) An address on the constitution and code of proce- 
dure : 8vo 47p — New York, 1848. 



1G7 [ 1 ] 

Edwards (Frank S.) A campaio;n in New Mexico, with Colonel Donijihan. 
with a map of the route and table of the distances traversed : 
12mo IS Ij) — Philadelphia, published hy Carey & Hart, 1S4*! : 
deposited l)y Carey & Hart. 

Eldp:r (Walter) The cottage gardens of America, containing practical di- 
rections for the culture of flowers, fruits and vegetables, the 
nature and improvement of soils, manures and their application. 
&c. : l:?mo 2:3:3p — Philadelphia, published by Moss & Dn- 
ther, 1849 ; deposited by Moss & Brother. 

Eliot (Samuel A.) A sketch of the history of Harvard college and of its 
present state: 12mo 190p — Boston, published by Little & 
Brown, 184H ; deposited by S. A. Eliot. 

Ellett (Mrs.) Evenings at Woodlawn : 12mo 84Sp — New York, ]iub- 
lished by 'Baker & Scribner, 1849 ; deposited liy Baker lV 
Scribner. 

Ellett (Elizabeth F.) The Women of the American Revcdution, in two 
volumes, second edition : 12mo Vol. 1, 348p ; Vol. 2,:jl2p — 
New York, pulilished by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; deposiKd 
by Baker & Scribner. 

Elliott (C. M.) Cottages and Cottage Life, containing plans for country 
houses, adapted to the means and wants of the ])eople of tiic 
United States, &c. &c., with some sketches of life in this coun- 
try : 8vo large, 226ji — Cincinnati, published by H. M.- Der- 
by & Co., 1848; deposited by C. M. Elliott. 

Ellis (Benjamin, AL D.) The Medical Formulary, much improved and 
extended, being a collection of prescriptions derived from the 
writings and practice of many of the most eminent physician!*; 
in America and Europe, with an appendix containing the usual 
dietetic preparations and antidotes for poison, &c., eighth edi- 
tion, with numerous additions hy S. G. Morton, AL D. : 8\ o 
large 272p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard. 
1840; deposited by Lea & Blanchard. 

Evergreen for 1847 — A present for all seasons, end)ellished with ten eU- 
gant engravings, from designs by eminent artists : 8vo lajgi , 
800p — Philadelphia, published' by Carey & Hart, 1849 ; de- 
posited by Carey & Ilait. 

Evidexces of natural and revealed religion; also, the doctrines and insti- 
tutions of Christianity, with questions for Bible classes, by thi' 
author of " Reasons why 1 am a Churchman" : 16mo 224p — 
New York, published by the General Protestant Episcopal 
Sunday School Union, 1848*; deposited by James W. Mitchell. 

EwELL (James) The Medical Companion, or. Family Physician, treating 
of the diseases of the United States, with their symptoms, 
causes, cure and means of prevention ; common cases in surgery, 
as fractures, dislocations, &c. ; the management and diseases 
of women and (diildren ; a dispensatory for preparing family 
medicines, and a glossary explaining technical terms, to which 
are added a brief anatomy and physiology of the human body, 
showing on rational principles, the cause and cure, of diseases. 
An essay on the art of preserving health without the aid of 



[ 1 ] 168 " 

medicine ; an American Materia Medica, pointing out the vir- 
tues and doses of medicinal plants. Also, the nurse's guide — 
the tenth edition, revised, enlarged and very considerably im- 
proved, embracing a treatise on hydropathy, the chronother- 
mal system and homcpopathy — Philadelphia, published by Tho- 
mas Cowperthwait & Co., 1S47 ; deposited by E. Kingman. 

Same, tenth edition — Philadelphia, published by Crissy 
& Markley, 1848 ; deposited by E. Kingman. 

EvviNG (James) A treatise on the ofRce and duty of a justice of the peace, 
sheritf, coroner, constable, executors, administrators and guar- 
dians, &c., with new and approved forms ; fourth edition, re- 
vised and corrected, with additional notes, &c. : 8vo large, 
598p — New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1848 ; 
deposited by Banks, Gould & Co. 

Familiar Dialogues, and other pieces in prose and poetry, calculated 
for Sunday school exhibitions, without denominational distinc- 
tion : 16mo 124p — Pottsville, published for the editor, 1848 ; 
deposited by the Editor. 

Ferguson (William, F. R. S. E.) A system of practical surgery, third 
American from the last English edition, with two-hundred and 
seventy-four illustrations by Bagg, engraved l)y Gilbert : 8vo 
630p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848 ; 
deposited by Lea & Blanchard. 

Field, (Rev. Chester,) Scripture illustrated by interesting facts, incidents 
and anecdotes, with an introduction by Rev. John Todd, D. D. : 
12mo 2G5p — New Yoik, publishetl by Harper & Brothers, 
1847 ; deposited by Hari)er & Brothers. 

Field, (J. M. Esq.,) The Drama in Pokerville, the bench and bar of Jury 
town, and other stories, with eight illustrations, from original 
designs, engraved expressly for this work by F. O. C. Darley : 
12mo 200p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849; 
deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Fife (William,) System of training and teaching in Penmanship, by exer- 
cises whose errors are extravagant, and the reverse of those 
into which all pupils naturally fall, _&c. : Philadelphia, 1847 ; 
deposited by William Fife. 

Fisher (Richard S., M. D.) The Book of the World, being an account of 
all republics, empires, kingdoms and nations, in reference to 
their geography, statistics, commerce, &c., in two volumes, 
illustrated by charts and maps : 8vo large. Vol. 1, 614p ; 
Vol. 2, 70op — New York, published by J. H. Colton, 1849 ; 
deposited by J. H. Colton. 

Fitch (George W.) The Youth's Mapping Book, being an introduction to 
Fitch's Chronography, containing maps of New York, New 
Hampshire, Maine, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, 
Pennsylvania and New Jersey — Brooklyn, published by A. M. 
Wilder, & Co., 1849 ; deposited by A.M. Wilder & George 
W. Fitch, 1849. 

Chorography, designed for learners in geography, 
being a collection of plates prepared for delineathig maps : 4to 



169 [ 1 ] 

20p — Brooklyn, published by A. M. Wilder & Co., 1848 ; 
deposited by A. M. Wilder. 
Five months in the New York State Lunatic Asylum : IGmo 6op — Buf- 
falo, 1849. 

Flogging in the Navy, an essay on, containing striclures upon existing 
naval laws, and suggesting subslitutts for the discipline of the 
lash: 8vo large, 2op — New York, published by Pudney &■ 
Russell, 1849 ; deposited by Kettell & Moore. 

FoLGER, (Robert M.) Exchange tables of British sterling, showing the 
value in the United States currency, of one pei^ny to ten thou- 
sand pounds, from par to twelve and seven-eighths per cent 
premium, by eighths per cent progressively : 8vo large, o9p — 
New York, pu!)lished by Edward O. Jenkins, 1848 ; deposited 
by Robert M. Folger. 

Exchange tables of British Sterling, showing the 
value in United States currency, of one penny to ten thousand 
pounds, and in English currency, of one cent to twelve thou- 
sand dollars, from par to twelve and seven-eights per cent, 
premium by eights per cent, progressively: 8vo [large] New 
York, published by the author, 1849 ; deposited by R. M. 
Fojger. 

FooTE (Rev, William Henry) Sketches of North Carolina, historical and 
iiiographical, illustrative of the principles of a portion of her 
early settlers: 8vo large, ooVp — New York, published by 
Robert Carter, 1846 ; deposited by Robert Carter. 

Ford (Captain Edward) The Dutchess of Baden, a tale of tlie French re- 
volution, with a history of the fiill of the marquis Louis df 
Beauharnais and the tlight and perils of his tamily in France, 
Spain, St. Domingo and Philadelphia: 8vo llOp — Philadel- 
phia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849; deposited by Carey 
& Hart. 

FowLE (William B.) An elementary geography, being also a key to the 
new series of outline maps; 24o 79p — Boston, published by 
William B. Fowle, 1849; deposited by W. B. Fowle. 

Franklin (A. W.) American cottage library, or, useful facts, figures and 
hints for everybody, containing a general view of the world, 
statistics of the United States, &c. : 12mo 190p — New York, 
published by Burgess, Stringer & Co. ; deposited by Burgess, 
Stringer & Co. 

Franklin (Benjamin) Poor Richard's Almanac for 18;30, as written by B. 
Franklin for the years 1733, 1734, 1735; the astronomical 
calculations by Professor Benjamin Peirce, of Harvard Uni- 
versity, and adapted to Boston, New York, Philadelpbia, Bal- 
timore, Washington, Charleston and New Orleans, to which 
is added the commencement of the life of the great philosojiher 
written by himself, annual illustrated edition: Iriino GOji — 
New York, published by John Doggett, Jr., 1849 ; deposited 
by J. Doggett, Jr. 

Franklin (Benjamin,) His autobiogra])liy, with a narrative of his public 
lile and services, by Rev. H. Hastings Weld, with numerous 



[ 1 ] 170 

designs, by J. G. Chapman: 8vo 549p — New York, puhlished 
by Harper & Brothers, 1H48 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

French Genders, in six mnemonic tables, by which the genders of all 
the French nouns, upwards of 15,o40, may be fixed in the 
memory with certainty in a few days : 16mo 79p — New York, 
published by J. S. Redfield, 1848 ; deposited by James Corley. 

French (B. F.) Historical collections of Louisiana, embracing many rare 
and and valuable documents relating to the riational, civil and 
political history of that State, compiled with historical and 
biographical notes, and an introduction ; Part 1, historical 
documents from 1678 to 1691 : 8vo large, 222p — New 
York, published by Wiley & Putnam, 1846 ; deposited by B. 
F. French. 

Friendship's Offering, a Christmas, New Year's, and Birth-day pres- 
ent, for 1850: 12mo 330p — Boston, published by Phillips 
Sampson & Co., 1850 ; deposited by E. H. Butler. 

A Christmas, New Year and Birth-day present for 

1849 : o20p — Boston, published by Phillips '& Sampson, 

■ 1819 ; deposited by E. H. Butler. 

Frost (John, LL. U.) Beauties of French History, compiled from the best 

authors: 16mo 252p — New York, published by Harper & 

Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

The American Generals, from the founding of the 
Republic to the present time, and embracing a complete mili- 
tary history of the country, illustrated with six hundred and 
forty engravings : 8vo large, 9r2p — Philadelphia, published 
by J. AV. Bradley, 1848 ; deposited by J. Frost. 

Beauties of English history : 16mo 252p — New 
York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by 
Harper & Brothers. 

Pictorial Ancient History of the World, from the 
earliest ages to the death of Constantine the Great : 8vo 
large, 368p — Philadelphia, published by Walker & Glllis, 
1846 ; deposited by J. Frost. 

Pictorial history of the middle ages, from the death 
of Constantine the Great, to the discovery of America by Co- 
lumbus : 8vo large, 366p — Philadelphia, published bv 
Charles J. Gillis, 1846; deposited by J. Frost. 

Pictorial history of Mexico and the Mexican war, 
embellished by five hundred engravings: 8vo large, 640p — 
Philadelphia, published by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co., 
1849 ; deposited by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co. 

Pictorial life of George Washington, embracing a 
complete history of the seven years war: the formation of the 
Federal Constitution, and the administration of Washington^ 
embellished by more than one-hundred engravings: 8vo large, 
o8p — Philadelphia, published by Charles J. Gillis, 1847 ; de- 
posited by L. Johnson. 

Pictorial Life of Andrew Jackson, embellished bv 



171 [ 1 1 

numerous engravings: 8vo large, 512p — Hartford, })ublished 
by Belknap & Hamersly, 1847 : deposited by J. Frost. 
Frost (John, LL. D.) Thrilling adventures among the Indians, eomprising 
the most remarkable personal narratives ot" events in the early 
Indian wars, &c., as well as of incidents in the recent Indian 
hostilities in Mexico and Texas, illustrated with numerous en- 
gravings : 8vo 848p — Philadelphia, pul)lished by J. W. Brad- 
ley, 1849 ; deposited by J. Frost. 

Thrillino- incidents of the wars of the United States, 
with three-hundred engravings ; 8vo large, GOOp — Phila- 
delphia, published by Carey &. llart, 1848; deposited by Carey 
& Hart. 
Fry (.J. Reese,) A life of General Zachary Taylor, comprising a narrative 
of events connected with his professional career, derived from 
pui)lic documents and private correspondence, with an original 
and accurate portrait and eleven elegant illustrations of the 
battles of Fort Harrison, Okee-cho-bee, Palo Alto, Resaca de 
la Palma, Monterey, Buena Vista, &c. : 12mo 332p — Phila- 
delphia, ])ul»Iished liy Grigg, Elliott & Co., 1847; deposited by 
Grigg, Elliott & Co. 

Fulton (Levi S.) and Eastman (George W.) A practical system of book- 
keeping by single entry, containing three diiferent forms of 
books ; designed respectively for the farmer, mechanic and 
merchant , to which is added a variety of useful forms, viz : — 
notes, bills, drafts, receipts, etc., etc., etc., second edition : 
12mo 2'S2p — New York, pul)lished by A. 8. Barnes & Co, 
1S48 ; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co. 

FuRBER (George C.) Camp stories, or incidents in the life of a soldier, 
designed to give correct ideas of a soldier's life : 8vo 9(3p — 
Cincinnati, p\iblished by J. A. & U. P. .James, 1849; deposited 
by J. A. & U. P. James. 

History of Mexico, continued from the capture of 
Vera Cruz to the termination of the war with the United 
States, containing the full treaty of peace, &c., &c., heing a 
contiimation of Young's History of Mexico: 8vo — Cincinnati, 
pul)lished by J. A. & U. P. James, 1S48; deposited by J. A. & 
U. P. James. 

The twelve months volunteer, oi', journal of a pri- 
vate in the Tennessee regiment of cavalry in the campaign in 
Mexico, 181(j-47, including a complete history of the war with 
Mexico, embellished by correct engravings fronr drawings by 
the author : Svo large, 624p — Cincinnati, published by J. 
A. (Sc U. P. James, 184S ; dei)osiled by George C. Furber. 

Gallaudet (T. H.) and Hooker (Horace) The School and Family Dic- 
tionary and Illustrative Definer ; IGino 221p — New York, 
publislicd by Pratt, Woodford &. Co., 1847 ; deposited by T. 
JJ. (iallaudct and lloiace Hooker. 

Gaet (John M., M. D.) The treatment of insanity : 8vo large, o7Sp ^ 
New York, ))ublished by Harper & Jii'others, 18IG; deposited 
by Harper & Brothers. 



[ 1 ] 172 

Gardner (D. Pereira, M. D.) A new Medical Dictionary, contaniing an 
ex})lanation of the terras in anatomy, human and comparative, 
physiology, practice of medicine, ohstetrics, surgery, thera- 
peutics, materia medica, pharmacy, chemistry, hotany, natural 
philosophy, with the formulas of the principal pharmacopoeias 
and valuable practical articles on the treatment of diseases ; on 
the basis of Hooper & Grant, adapted to the present state of 
science, and for the use of medical students and the profession : 
8vo large, 68op — New York, published by Harper & Bro- 
thers, 1847 : deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Medical chemistry for the use of students 
and the profession ; being a manual of the science, with its ap- 
plication to toxicology, physiology, therapeutics^, hygiene, &c., 
by D. P. Gardner, ivi. D. : 12mo 396p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by Lea & Blanchard, 1848 ; deposited by Lea & Blan- 
chard. 

Ghost Stories — Collected with a particular view to counteract the vul- 
gar belief in ghosts and apparitions, with ten engravings : 16mo 
192p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1846; de- 
posited by Carey & Hart. 

Gibson (William M. D.) Institutes and practice of surgery, being outlines 
of a course of lectures, eighth edition, improved and enlarged, 
two volumes: 8vo, Vol. I,o03p; Vol. 2, 478p — Philadel- 
phia, published by James Kay, Jr., & Brother, 1850 ; deposi- 
ted by William Gibson. 

GiLMAN (Charles,) Reports of cases argued and determined in the Supreme 
Court of the State of Illinois : 8vo large, [three volumes — 2, 
3 and -4 only received,] Vol. 2, 179p ; >ol. 3, 708p ; Vol. 4, 
G37p — Quincy, published by Newfon Flagg, Vol. 2, in 1847, 
and Vols. 3 and 4, in 1848 ; deposited by Charles Gilman. 

(xiLPiN (Thomas) Exiles in Virginia, with observations on the conduct of 
the society of Friends during the revolutionary w^ar, compri- 
sing the otficial papers of the government relating to that peri- 
od, 1777-1778: 8vo large, 302p — Philadelphia, published 
in 1848 ; deposited by Thomas Gilpin. 

GiRARD (J. P. L.) An elementary practical book for learning to speak and 
write the Spanish language, from the method of Dr. J. H. P. 
vSeidenstuecker, dedicated to the use of his pupils and others : 
8vo 128p — New York, published by Collins & Brother, 1848 : 
deposited by Collins & Brother. 

(tirard (Stephen) W^ill of Stephen Girard, and a short biography : Svo 



io 



p — Philadelphia, 1848. 



GiRAULT (A. N.) The French student's manual, or, colloquial and gram- 
matical exercises, intended to impart to the student both a 
theoretical and practical knowledge of the French language, 
fourth edition, carefully revised and much enlarged : 12mo 
480p — Philadelphia, published by Henry Perkins, 1848; de- 
posited by Henry Perkins. 

GoLDSBURY (John) The Black-board — Exercises and illustrations on .the 
black-board, designed for the use of common schools; 12mo 



173 [ 1 ] 

144p — Keene, published by George Tilden, 1847 ; deposited 
by J. Goldsbury. 

Goldsmith (Oliver) Piunock's improved edition of Dr. Goldsmith's histor\ 
of Rome, illustrated with numerous engravings, by William ('. 
Taylor, LL. D., thirty-fifth American from the twenty-third 
English edition : 8vo 399p — Philadelphia, published by Tho- 
mas Cowperthwait & Co., 1848 ; deposited by Thomas Cow- 
perthwait & Co. 

Pinnock's improved edition of Dr. Goldsmith's his- 
tory of Greece, for the use of schools, illustrated with nume- 
rous engravings, by William C. Taylor, LL. D., thirty-fifth 
American from the nineteenth English edition : 12 mo :380p — 
Philadelphia, published by Thonras Cowperthwait Co. ; depo- 
sited by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co. 

Pinnock's improved edition of Dr. Goldsmith's his- 
tory of England, from the invasion of Julius Cresar, to the 
death of George III, w'ith a continuation to the year 184-'), 
illustrated with numerous engravings, by William C. Taylor, 
LL. D., fifty-fifth American ii'om the thirty-fifth English edi- 
tion ; 8vo 476p — Philadelphia, ])ul)lishetl by Thomas Cow- 
perthwait & Co., 1848 ; deposited by Thomas Cowperthwait 
& Co. 
Goodrich (Samuel G.) Peter Parley's common school history, illustrated 
by engravings, new edition, revised and brought tlown to tht- 
present time : 12mo 309p — Philadelphia, published by E. 11. 
Butler & Co., 1849 ; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co. 

Parley's third book of history, containing ancient 
history in connection with ancient geography, improved edi- 
tion : 12mo 189p — Boston, published by Jenks, Palmer & Co., 
1850; deposited by Charles Hendee. 

Common school history, illustrated by engravings, 
new edition, revised and brought down to the present time, b\ 
Peter Parley : 12mo :309p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. 
Butler & Co., 1849 ; deposited by E. II. Butler & Co. 

Parley's first book of history, with sixty-eight en- 
gravings and sixteen maps, fourth revised edition, enlarged and 
improved: 12mo 240p — Boston, published by Jenks, Palmer 
& Co., 1849 ; deposited by Charles J. Hendee. 
Gove (Mary S.) Lectures to women on anaton^y and ])hysiology, with an 
appendix on water cure: 12mo oOlp — New York, published 
by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Graham (David) A treatise on the practice of the Supreme Court of the 
State of New York, third edition, revised, corrected and en- 
larged, in two volumes: 8vo large, 78.')p — New Yoi-k, pub- 
lished by Banks, Gould & Co., 1847 ; deposited I)y Banks, 
aould, & Co. 

Gr.\ham (George R,) Graham's American Monthly Magazine, for Novem- 
ber, 1846 : 8vo large, Philadel[ihia, ]iulilislied by George R, 
Graham ; deposited by J. Fennimore Cooper. 



[ 1 ] 174 

Grattan (Peachy R.) Reports of cases decided in the Supreme Court of 
Appeals and in the general court of Virginia : Vol. 2, from 
April 1, 1845, to April 1, 1846: 8vo large, Vol. 2,664p — 
Richmond, published by Shepherd & Colin, 1846 ; deposited 
by State of Virginia, [Vol 2, only, received.] 

Graves (Robert James, M. D.) A system of clinical medicine, with notes 
and a series of lectures, by W. W. Gerhard, M. D., third 
American edition : 8vo large, 7olp — Philadelphia, published 
by Edward Barrington & George D. Haswell, 1848 ; deposited 
by Barrington & Haswell. 

Gray (James, D. D.) A dissertation on the coincidence between the priest- 
hoods of Jesus Christ and Melchisedec, in three parts, in which 
the passages of scripture relating to that subject in the XIV 
Chapter of Genesis, the XC Psalm, theV, VI, Vll Chapters of 
the Epistle to the Hebrews, are explained, together with a 
sketch of the life of Jesus Christ : 12mo 158p — Hagerstown, 
published by William Stewart, 1845 ; deposited by William 
Stewart. 

Green (Horace, A. M., M. D.) Observations on the pathology of the croup, 
w^th remarks on its treatment by topical medications : 12mo 
115p — New York, published by John Wiley, 1849 ; deposi- 
ted by Horace Green. 

Greene (Samuel S., A. M.) First Lessons in grammar, based upon the con- 
struction and analysis of sentences, designed as an introduction 
to the " Analysis of Sentences " : 16mo 171p — Philadelphia, 
published by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co, 1848 ; deposited 
by Samuel S. Greene. 

Analysis, a treatise on the structure of the 
Eno-lish language, or the analysis and classification of sen- 
tences and their component parts, with illustrations and exer- 
cises adapted to the use of schools: 12mo 258p — Philadel- 
phia, published by Thomas Cowperthwait & Co, 1848 ; de- 
posited by Samuel S. Green. 

Griffith (R. Eglesfield,) Medical botany, or descriptions of the more im- 
portant plants used in medicine, with their history, properties 
and modes of administration, with upwards of three-hundred 
illustrations; 8vo large — Philadelphia, published by Lea & 
Blanchard, 1847 : deposited by Lea & Blanchard. 

GRimke (Frederick) Considerations upon the nature and tendency of free 
institutions: 8vo large, 544p — Cincinnati, pubUshed by H. 
W. Derby & Co. : deposited by F. Grimke 

Grimsiiaw (William,) An etymological dictionary of the English language, 
containing the radicals and definitions of words derived from 
the Greek, Latin and French languages, and all the generally 
used technical and polite phrases adopted from the I'rench and 
Latin, &c., &c., third edition, carefully revised and enlarged : 
12mo 280p— Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliott &"Co.,, 
1848; deposited by W. Grimshaw. 

Incidents recalled : 8vo 84p — Philadelphia, 1848. 



175 [ 1 ] 

Grimshaw (William) Questions on the History of England : 12nio Sip 
— Philadelphia, 1841. 

History of the United States, tVoni their first set- 
tlement as colonies to tlie period of the sixth census in 1S40 : 
I'Jmo 3o(i]) — Philadelpiiia, puhlished l)y Grigg, Elliot & Co., 
1H47 ; deposited by William Grimshaw. 

Questions on the History of the United States: 
12mo Olp — Philadelphia, 1847. 

History of the United States from their first settle- 
ment as colonies to the peace with Mexico in 1818: 12mo 
871p — Philadelphia, puhlished by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1849; 
deposited by William Grimshaw. 

Griswold (Rufus Wilmot,) The prose writers of America, with a survey 
of the history, condition and prospects of American literature, 
illustrated with portraits from oi'iginal pictures : 8vo large, 
0")2p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; de- 
posited by Carey & Hart. 

The temale poets of America : 8vo 400p — Phila- 
delphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849 ; ileposited by Carey 
& Hart. 

(rROVER (Thomas D.,) Will of, with a short sketch of his life : 8vo 23p — 
South wark, 1849. 

GuEN0>- (Francis M.) A treatise on milch cows, whereby the quality and 
quantity of milk which any cow will give may be accuratelv 
determined by observing natural marks or external indicatioiis 
alone, the length of time she will continue to give milk, &,c. ; 
translated for the Farmer's Library, from the French, by N. 
P. Trist, Esq., with introductory remarks on the cow and the 
dairy, by John S. Skinner, illustrated by numerous engravings: 
8vo 32p — New York, published by Greely & M'Elrath ; de- 
posited by Greely & M'Elrath, 

U1\CKLF,Y (Charles W., S. T. D.,) Elementary course of Geometry, for the 
use of schools and colleges : 12mo 10'3p — New York, pub- 
lished hy Harper & Brothers, 1849; deposited by Harper &, 
Brothers. 

A treatise on Algebra, containing the 
latest improvements, adapted to the use of schools and col- 
leges : 8vo large, TiO^p — New York, published by Harper 
& Brothers, 1840 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

School Algebra, containing the latest 
improvements; 8vo large, 226p — New York, published by 
Harper & Brothers, 1849 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Hale (David,) Memoirs of, with selections from his miscellaneous writings, 
l)y .Joscjih P. Thom])Son : 12mo o20j) — New York, ])ublished 
by .John Wiley, 18'10 ; deposited by J, P. Thompson. 

Ualk (Salma,) l^remium history, of the United States, from their first 
settlement as colonies to the close of Mr. Tyler's adminis- 
tration in 184o, to which are added questions, adapted to the 
use of schools, new edition, with maps : 12mo326p — Coopers- 



[ 1 ] 176 . 

town, published by H. & E. Phinny, 1846 ; deposited by 
Salnia Hale. 

Hale (Sarah Josepha) Three Hours, or, The Vigil of Love, and other 
poems : 12mo 216p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 
1848; deposited by S. J. Hale. 

The Poet's offering for 1850 : 8vo large, 576p — 
Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., ]8o0; depo- 
sited by Grigg, Elliot & Co. 

Hall (Arethusa) Manual of morals for common schools, adapted also to 
the use of families : 12mo 212p — Boston, published by J. P. 
Jewett, ]849 ; deposited by William H. Wardwell. 

Hall (Rev. Baynard R., A. M.) Teaching, a science — the teacher an 
artist: 8vo 305p — New York, pubHshed by Baker & Scrib- 
ner 1848 ; deposited by Baker & Scrilmer. 

Hall (James) The West ; its soil, surface and productions : 12mo 260p — 
Cincinnati, published by Derby, Bradley & Co., 1848 ; depo- 
sited by James Hall. 

Hall (Mrs. James) Phantasia, and other Poems : 8vo 144p — New York, 
published by George P. Putnam, 1849 ; deposited by George 
P. Putnam. 

Hamilton (G.) Elements of vegetable and animal physiology, in two parts, 
edited by D. M. Reese, M. D,. LL. D., [See Chamber's educa- 
tional course.] 12mo 144p — New York, published by A. S. 
Barnes & Co., 1849 ; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co.' 

Hammond (Jabez D.) Life and times of Silas Wright, late Governor of 
New York : 8vo large, 749p — Syracuse, published by Hall 
& Dickson, 1848 ; New York, A. S. Barnes & Co., 1848 ; de- 
posited by Hall & Dickson. 

Hare (J. J. Clark) and Wallace (H. B.) Select decisions of American 
courts in several departments of law, with special reference to 
mercantile law, with notes by J. J. Clark Hare & H. B. Wal- 
lace, two volumes : 8vo large. Vol. 1, 569p ; Vol. 2, 579p 
— Philadelphia, published by T. & J. W. Johnson, Vol. 1, in 
1847 ; Vol. 2, in 1848 ; deposited by T. & J. W. Johnson. 

Hare (Thomas,) Reports of cases adjudged in the higher courts of chan- 
cery, before the Right Honorable Sir James Wigram, Kt. Vice 
Chancellor, [See Dunlap] : 8vo large, 666p — New York, 
published by Banks, Gould, & Co., 1847; deposited bv Banks, 
Gould & Co. 

Harrison (W. B.) Museum comic songster, being a choice collection of 
rare and original songs : 16mo 70p — Philadelphia, published 
by W. B, Harrison, 1849 ; deposited by William B. Harrison. 

Harris (Chapin A., M. D. DD. S.) A dictionary of dental science, biogra- 
phy and medical terminology : 8vo 780p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849 ; deposited by Lindsay & 
Blakiston. 

Harrison (Robert, M. D.) A text book of practical anatomy, with addi- 
tions by an American physician, w'ith numerous illustrations : 
8vo large, 720p — New York, published by S. S. & W. 
Wood, 1848 ; deposited by S. S. & W. Wood. 



177 [ 1 ] 

Hart, (Joscpli C.) The romance of Yachting, voyage tlie first : 12mo 332p 

— New York, piiblislied hy Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; depos- 
ited by Harper & Brothers. 

Hastings (John, M. D.) The practice of Surgery, emliracing minor surgery 
and the application of dressings, &c., with numerous illustra- 
trations : 8vo 47i)p — Phihidelphia, published by Lindsay & 
Elakislon ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston. 

Lectures on Yellow Fever, its causes, pathology 
and ti-eatment, by John Hastings, M. D. : 8vo 69p — Philadel- 
phia, published by Lindsay &. Blakiston ; deposited by John 
Hastings. 

Haswell (Charles H.) Engineer's and Mechanic's pocket book, containing 
United States and foreign weights and measures, &c., &c., fifth 
edition : 16mo 296p — New York, published by Harper & Bro- 
thers, 1848 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Hawker (Lieutenant Colonel P.) Instructions to young sportsmen, in all 
that relates to guns and shooting; first American from the ninth 
London edition; to which is added the hunting and shooting of 
America, with descriptions of the animals and birds, by Wm. 
T. Porter, Esq., with illustrations ; 8vo 4o9p — Philadelphia, 
published by Lea & Blanchard, 1846 ; deposited by Lea & 
J31anchard. 

Hayden (Chester) A practical analytical digest of the Code of Procedure 
ot the state of New York, embracing entire every section of 
the code in an alphabetical arrangement of its contents as a\y- 
plicable to actual practice ; wdth suggestions and remarks, and 
an appendix, containing the act supplementary to the code, &c., 
together with a collection of practical forms adapted to the 
new practice : 8vo large, 428p — Albany, published by W. 
C. Little 6c Co. ; deposited by Chester Hayden. 

Headlev (J. T.) The Adirondack, or, Life in the Woods : 8vo 288p 

New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849 ; deposited 
by J. T. Headley. 

Absalom : published in the New York Observer, May 12, 
1849 ; deposited by J. T. Headley. 

The Chariot of Fire : published in the New York 01)- 
server, April 14, 1849 ; deposited by J. T. Headley. 

Letters from Italy, new and revised edition : 12mo 220]) 

— New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; deposi- 
ted by Baker & Scribner. 

The Alps and the Rhine, a series of sketches ; new and 
revised edition : 12mo lo8p — New York, publislunl by Baker 
& Scribner, 3848 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

Lile of Oliver Cromwell : 12mo 446p — New York, jiub- 
lished by Baker & Scribner, J>S48 ; deposited by Baker ik, 
Scril)ner. 

The Sacred Mountains, illustrated: .12ino 17op — New 
York, publish(>d by Baker &. Scribner, l'^47 ; deposited by 
Baker & Scribner. 
Mis— 12. 



[ 1 ] 178 

Washington and his Generals: 12mo Vol. 1, 348p ; Vol. 
2, 372p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner ; depos- 
ited by Baker & Scribner. 
Helm (Rev. James, A. M.) Memoir of Martha Thompson Sharp: 16mo 
198p — Philadelphia, published by Daniels & Smith, 1849 ; 
deposited by Rev. James Helm, A. M. 

Henry (Capt. W. S., U. S. A.) Campaign sketches of the war with Mex- 
ico, with engravings : 12mo o31p — New York, published by 
Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Henshaw (J. Sidney) A manual for United States Consuls, embracing their 
rights, duties, liabilities and emoluments, the laws and judicial 
decisions governing them, &c., &c., &c. : 16mo 2o2p — New 
York, published by J. C. Riker, 1849 ; deposited by J. S. 
Henshaw. 

Mkrbert, Ellen, or Family Changes, with six illustrations : 16mo 206p — 
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849 ; deposited 
by Harper & Brothers. 

HiCKEY (W.) Constitution of the United States of America, the proximate 
causes of its adoption and ratification, the Declaration of Inde- 
pendence, the prominent political acts of George Washington ; 
with an alphabetical analysis of the Constitution, by a citizen : 
12mo 22op — Washington, printed by G. S. Gideon, 1846; 
deposited by the author. 

Same, Second edition, Philadelphia, published by T. K. & 
P. G. Collins, 1847, two copies ; deposited by W. Hickey. 

Hildreth (Richard,) The history of the United States of America, from 
the discovery of the continent to the organization of the gov- 
ernment under the federal constitution, in three volumes, Y'ol. 
1, -570p; Vol. 2, 579; Y'ol. 3, 592p — New York, published 
by Harper & Brothers, 1849 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

11 ILL (Nicholas, Jr.) Reports of cases argued and determined in the Su- 
prenie court, and in the court for the correction of errors of 
the State of New York : Vol.7, 8vo large, G32p — Albany, 
published by Gould, Banks & Gould, 1847 ; deposited by Gould, 
Banks & Gould. 

Hinds (John) Farriery and Stud book, new edition ; farriery taught on a 
new and easy plan, being a treatise on the diseases and acci- 
dents of the horse, with instructions to the shoeing-smith, 
farrier and groom ; with considerable additions and improve- 
ments, particularly adapted to this country, by Thomas M. 
Smith, with a supplement comprising an essay on domestic 
animals, especially the horse, together with trotting and racing 
tables, &c., &c., by J. S. Skinner : 12mo 124p — Philadelphia, 
published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1848 ; deposited by John 
Grigg. 

HiKST (Henry B.) The Penance of Roland, a romance of the Peine Forte et 
Dure, and other poems ; 12mo 128p — Boston, published by 
Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 1849 ; deposited by W. D. Ticknof, 
&Co. 



179 [ 1 ] 

HoprMAX (Charles Fenno) Greyslaer, a romance of the Mohawk, fourth 
edition : 8vo '340p — New York, published by Baker Sc Scribner, 
.1849 ; deposited by C. F. Hoffman. 

IFoLCOMBK (James P.) A digest of the decisions, of the Supreme court of 
the United States from its organization to the present time : 
8vo large, 6S0p — New York, published by D. Appleton &. 
Co., 1848 ; deposited by D. Appleton & Co. 

Holly (0. L.) The life of Jk'njamin Franklin: 12mo 468p — New York, 
published by George F. Cooledge & Brother, 1848 ; deposited 
by George F. Cooledge and Brother. 

The New York State Register for 1845, containing an al- 
manac for 184o-(3, with political, statistical and other informa- 
tion relating; to the state of New York and the United States : 
also, a complete list of county officers, attorneys, &c. Thf 
National Recjister contains a full list of United States o-overn- 
ment officers, &c. : 12mo 516p — New York, published by J. 
Disturnell, 1845 ; deposited by J. Disturnell. 

Same for 1847-8, being a supplement to the Register for 
1815-6; 12mo ^Ip — New York, published by J. Disturnell : 
deposited by J. Disturnell. 

lIoLLicK (Frederick, M. D.) Neuropathy, or the true principles of the art 
of healing the sick, being an examination of the action of gal- 
vanism, electricity, and magnetism in the cure of disease, and a 
comparison between their powers and those of drugs or medi- 
cines of all kinds, with a view to determine their value and 
proper uses ; Ifimo 193p — Philadelphia, published by Na- 
tional publishing company, 1849 ; deposited by F. Ilollick. 

The Diseases of Woman, their causes and cure 
familiarly explained, with practical hints for their prevention, 
and for the preservation of female health, illustrated by numer- 
ous engravings : 16mo 291p — New York, published by Bur- 
gess & Stringer, 1849 ; deposited by F. Hollick. 

Outlines of Anatomy and Physiology, illustra- 
te! by a new dissected plate of the human organization and by 
separate views, &c., with a portrait of tlie author : 4to 40p — 
Philadelphia, published by King & Baird, 1847 ; (K'posited by 
F. Hollick, M. D. 

HoLMKS (John,) The Art of Rhetoric, or the elements of oratory, adapted 
to the practice of the stuckmts of Great Britain and Ireland, 
methodically arranged from the ancient and modern rhetorical 
writers, to which is added Quintilian's course of an ancient 
Roman echication ; new and carefully corrected edition in two- 
books, entirely remodeled, by John A. Getty, A. M. : 12mo 
:307p — Philadelphia, published by Carey &Har(, 1849 ; de- 
posited by J. A. Getty. 

lIoLTHousE (Henry James,. Esq.) A new Law Dictionary, containing ex- 
planations of such technical terms and phrases as occur in the 
works of legal authors, in the practice of the courts and in the 
parliamentary proceedings of tiie House of Lords and Com- 
mons, to which is adde<l an outline of an action at law, and of 



[ 1 ] 180 

a suit in equity ; edited from the second and enlarged London 
edition, with numerous additions, by Henry Pennington : 12mo 
495p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1849 ; 
deposited by Lea & Blanchard. 

Homer — The first six books of Homer's Iliad, with English notes, a me- 
trical index and homeric glossary, by Charles Anthon, LL. D.: 
8vo 897p — New York, published by Hai-per & Brothers, 1847; 
deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Hood (John W., M. D.) The principles and practice of medicine in a series 
of essays; 8vo large, 263p — Philadelphia, published by 
Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co, 1848 ; deposited by J. W. Hoo(l. 

Hood (Samuel,) Practical Treatise on the Law relating to registers, re- 
gister's courts, orphans' courts, auditors, executors, adminis- 
trators, guardians and trustees in Pennsylvania, with appendices 
of acts of assembly, forms, &c., and an index : 8vo large, 
580p — Philadelphia, published by James Kay, Jr. & Brother ; 
deposited by James Kay, Jr. &. Brother. 

Hooker (Worthington, M. D.) Physician and Patient, or a practical view 
of the mutual duties, relations and interests of the medical 
profession and the community : 8vo 4o3p — New York, pub- 
lished by Baker & Scribner, 1849 ; deposited by Baker &, 
Scribner. 

Hooper (Dr.) Physician's Vade-Mecum, or a manual of the principles and 
practice of physic, considerably enlarged and improved, with 
an outline of general pathology and therapeutics, by William 
Augustus Grey, M. D., with additions by James Stewart, A. 
M. lyr. D. : 12mo 541p — New York, published by Harper & 
Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Horace — The works of Horace, wdth English notes, critical and expla- 
natory, by Charles Anthon, LL. D., new edition, corrected 
and enlarged, with an excursus relative to the wines and vine- 
yards of the ancients, and a life of Horace by Milman : l'2mo 
731p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers ; deposi- 
ted by Harper & Brothers. 

Hough (Lewis L.) The Wanderer, a poem : 16mo 64p — Cleveland, pub- 
lished by Smead & Cowles, 1847 ; tleposited by L. S. Hough. 

Howard (Benjamin C.) Reports of cases argued and adjudged in the Su- 
preme court of the United States, Januiiry term, 1849, vol. 7: 
8vo large, 911p — Boston, published by Little &. Brown, 
1849 ; deposited by Little & Brown. 

Reports of cases argued and adjudged in the Su- 
preme court of the United States, January term, 1847, Vol. o ; 
8vo large, 6-51p — Boston, published l)y Little & Brown ; 
deposited by Little &. Brown. 

..fiowE (Henry) Historical collections of Ohio, containing a collection of the 
most interesting facts, traditions, biographical, sketches, anec- 
dotes, &c., relating to its general and local history, with de- 
scriptions of its counties, principal towns and villages, illustrated 
by 177 engravings, &c. : 8vo large, o81p — Cincinnati, pub- 



181 [ 1 } 

lislu'd by Derby, Bradley & Co., for the author, 1847; (U'po- 
sited l)y J. W. Earbcr & H. Howe. 

Howe (Ilenry) Memoirs of the most eminent American mechanics ; also lives 
of distin<ijuislied European mechanics, together with a collec- 
tion of anec(h)tes, descriptions, &c., relating to the mechanic 
arts, illustrated by fifty engravings; l'2ino 481p — New York, 
publisheil by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper 
& Brothers. 

HowisoN (Robert R.) A history of Virginia, from its discovery and settle- 
ment by Europeans to the j)resent time ; Vol. 2, containing the 
history of the colony and of the State, from 1763 to the retro- 
cession of Alexandria in 1847, with a review of the present 
condition of Virginia: 8vo large, 528p — Richmond, published 
by Drinker & Morris, 1848 ; deposited by Drinker & Morris. 

HowLAND (Henry J.) The Worcester Almanac, directory and business ad- 
vertiser, for 1850, including the ordinances of the city of Wor- 
cester : 16mo 172p — Worcester, published by H.J. Howland ; 
deposited by H. J. Howland. 

IIuDSox (H. N.) Lectures on Shakspeare, two volumes 12mo : Vol. 1, J336p; 
Vol.2, 348p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 
1848 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

HrGns (.John T.) California ; its history, population, climate, soil, produc- 
tions and harbors, from Sir George Simpson's overland journey 
round the world — an account of the revolution in California , 
and conquest of the country by the United States: 16mo lO-Op 
— Cincinnati, published by J. A. & U. P. James ; deposited by 
J. A. & U. P. James. 

Doniphan's expedition, containing an account of the con- 
quest of New Mexico ; General Kearney's overland expedition 
to California ; Doniphan's campaign against the Navajos, his 
unparalleled march upon Chihuahxia and Durango, and the ope- 
rations of General Price at Santa Fe, &c., a map and five en- 
gravings : 12mo 407p — Cincinnati, published J. A. &, U, P. 
James, 1848; deposited by J. A. & U. P. James. 

Hughs (Mrs.) The Ivy Wreath, with beautiful illustrations: 12mol75p — 
Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; depos- 
ited l)y Lindsay & Blakiston. 

Birds and Blossoms for the Young, with numerous illustra- 
tions : 18mo 205p — Philadelphia, ])ul)lished by Lindsay & 
Blakiston, 1848 ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston. 

Hunter (John,) Analytic History for Schools, founded on the late Es- 
quisses historiques of M. I). Levi, [Alva res] adapted to the 
state of instruction in the United States, and brought down 
to the year 1848: 12mo 312 p — New York, published 
by I). Fanshaw ; deposited by John H. Hunter and D. 
Fanshaw. 

HusTox (Charles,) An essay on the liistory and ruiture of original titles to 
land in the province and state of Pennsylvania : 8vo large, 
484p — Philadelpliia, published by T. & J'. W. Johnson, 1849 ; 
deposited by T. & J. W. Johnson. 



f 1 ] 182 

Mutton's Book of Nature laid open, revised and improved, by Rev. J. L. 
lilake, D. D. : 16mo 250p — New York, published by Harper 
& Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

HvATT (James,) Lime and marl, their agricultural uses : Svo 32p — Phila- 
delphia, 1848. 

Imray (Keith) A popular Cyclopedia of modern domestic medicine, compri- 
sing every recent improvement in medical knowledge, with a 
plain account of the medicines in common use ; first American 
edition, to w4iich are prefixed by the editor, popular treatises 
upon anatomy, physiology, surgery, dietectics, and the man- 
agement of the sick, compiled from the works of eminent phy- 
sicians and surgeons, designed for general use ; 8vo large, 
8.55p— New York, published by Gates, Stedman & Co., 1849 ; 
deposited by Gates, Stedman & Co. 

IxGERSOLL (Charles J.) Historical sketch of the second war betw^een the 
United States of America and Great Britain, declared by act of 
Congress, the 18th of June 1832, and concluded by peace the 
loth of February 181o, embracing the events of 1814: 8vo 
:317p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1849; 
deposited by Lea & Blanchard. 

Irving (Washington) The Crayon Miscellany, author's revised edition, 
complete in one volume : 12mo 379p — New York, published 
hy George P. Putnam, 1849 ; deposited by W. Irving. 

Astoria, or. Anecdotes of an enterprise beyond the 
Rocky mountains, author's revised edition, complete in one 
volume : 12mo 519p — New York, published by George P. 
Putnam ; deposited by W. Irving. 

The adventures of Captain Bonneville, United States 
Army, in the Rocky mountains and the far west, digested frorn 
his journal, and illustrated from various other sources, author's 
revised edition, complete in one volume : 12mo 428p — New 
York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849 ; deposited by W. 
Irving. 

The life and voyages of Christopher Columbus, to 
which are added those of his companions, in three volumes, 
author's revised edition, 12mo ; Vol. 1, 437p; Vol. 2, 493p ; 
Vol. 3, 492p — New York, pubhshed by George P. Putnam, 
1849 ; deposited by W. Irving. 

Tales of a Traveller, by Geoffrey Crayon, author's re- 
vised edition, complete in one volume: 12mo 4r36p — New 
York, published by George P.Putnam, 1849 ; deposited by W. 
Irving. 

A history of New York from the beginning of the 
world to the end of the Dutch dynasty, by Diedrich Knicker- 
})ocker, the author's revised edition, complete in one volume : 
12mo 452p — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 
1849 ; deposited by W. Irving. 

The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon, gent., 
author's revised edition, complete in one volume : 12mo 46op 



183 [ 1 ] 

— New York, pii])lishetl by George P. Putnam, 1849 ; (le}K)- 
sited by W. Irving. 

Irvixg (Washington) Bracebridge Ilall, or tlie Humorist, a medley, by 
GeolTrey Crayon, gent., author's revised edition, complete 
in one volume ; 12mo 487j) — New York, published by George 
P. Putnam, 1849; dcjiosited by W. Irving. 

A book of the Hudson, collected from the various 
works of Diedrich Knickerbocker, edited by GeotFrey Crayon : 
IGnio Hop — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 
1849 ; deposited by George P. Putnam. 

Jackmax (Alonzo,) A treatise on the doctrine of numerical series ; 8vo 
oop — 1846. 

Jacobus (Melancthon W.) Notes on the Gospels, critical and explanatory, 
so prepared as to accompany the questions of the American 
Sunday School Union, and incorporating with the notes on a 
new plan the most approved harmony of the four gospels, with 
illustrations; from Kitto's Eiblical Encyclopedia, &c. Matfheu': 
12nio 3l:3p — New York, published by Robert Carter, 1848 : 
deposited by AI. W. JacouLis. 

Jexks (Rev. William, D. D.) The explanatory Bible Atlas and Scripture 
Gazetteer, geographical, topographical and historical, containiiifj; 
maps of all the countries an(l places mentioned in the old and 
new testaments, drawn from the latest and best authorities, and 
engraved expressly for the work, with illustrative essays for 
each map, and accurate local descriptions in the gazetteer, a 
colored missionary map of the world, a dictionary of the na- 
tural history of the Bible, with engravings, tables of time, 
weights, measures, coins, tabular views, &c., k.c. : 4to lo7p — 
Boston published by Charles Hickling, 1849 ; deposited by Wif- 
liam Jenks. 

Jexxixgs (Samuel K., M. D.) A compendium of Medical Science, or fiftv 
years experience in the art of liealing, being a plain and prac- 
tical treatise on the prevention and cure of diseases : 8vo 
large, 592p — Tuscaloosa, published by Marmaduke J. Slade. 
1847 : deposited by S, K. Jennings. 

Johnson (George William, Esq.) A Dictionary of Modern Gardening, with 
one-hundred and eighty wood cuts, edited with numerous addi- 
tions by David Lancheth : 8vo Ooop — Philadeljiliia, published 
by Lea & Blanchard, 1847; deposited by Lea & Blanchard. 

Johnson, (Samuel, LL. D.) Pocket Dictionary of the English Language, 
greatly improved by an augmentation of some thousand words 
and technical terms, &,c., &c,: Knno 2;?-3p — Philadelphi;!, pub- 
lished by Lindsay &. Blnkiston, 1849 ; deposited by J>indsav c^ 
Blakiston. 

Johnson (Theodore T.) Sights in the Gold Region, and scenes by the wav : 
8vo 278p — New York, piiljlished by leaker &, Scriluier, 1849: 
deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

Johnson (William,) Reports of cases adjudged in the Supreme court ot 
judicature of the State of New York, from January term, 
1799j to January term 180-3, both inclusive, together with cases 



[ 1 ] 184 

determined in the court for the correction of errors during that 
period; second edition, with many additional cases not included 
in the former edition, from the original notes of the late Hon. 
Jacob Radcliff, with copious references to the American and 
English decisions, by Lorenzo B. Shepard, second volume — 
containing the cases from October term 1800, to October 
term 1801, inclusive: 8vo large, 59op — New York, pub- 
lished by Banks, Gould & Co., 1848 ; deposited by Banks, 
Gould & Co. 

Johnson (William, Architect,) The Carpenters' new Guide, being a com- 
plete book of lines for carpentry and joinery ; treating fully on 
practical geometry, soffits, brick and plaster groins, niches of 
every description, sky lights, lines for roofs and domes, with a 
great variety of designs for roofs, trussed girders, floors, domes, 
bridges, &c. ; angle bars for shop fronts, &c., raking mould- 
ings, &c., &c. The whole founded on true geometrical princi- 
ples, the theory and practice well explained and fully exempli- 
fied on eighty-three copper plates, including some observations 
and calculations on the strength of timber, by Peter Nicholson, 
thirteenth edition: 4to 117p — Philadelphia, published by 
Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1848 ; deposited by Grigg, Elliot & Co,' 

Jones (Major) Sketches of travel, comprising the scenes, incidents and ad- 
ventures in his tour from Georgia to Canada, with eight orio-i- 
nal engravmgs : 12mo 192p — Philadelphia, published by 
Carey & Hart, 1848 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Jones (Thomas) Book-keeping and accountantship, elementary and practi- 
cal, in two parts, with a key for teachers : 8vo large, — New 
York, published by John Wiley, 1849 ; deposited by Thomas 
Jones. 

Jones (T. Wharton, F. A. S.) The principles and practice of Ophthalmic 
medicine and surgery, with one huntired and two illustrations, 
edited by Isaac Hays, M. D. : 8vo y09p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by Lea & Blanchard, 1847 ; deposited by Lea & Blan- 
chard. 

Kellog (Edward) Labor and other capital ; the rights of each secured and 
the wrongs of both eradicated, or an exposition of the cause 
why few are wealthy and many poor, and the delineation of a 
system, which, without iniringing the rights of property will 
give to labor its just reward : 8vo 298p — New York, pub- 
lished by the author, 1849 ; deposited by E. Kellog. 

Kelley (Jame M., counsellor at law and State reporter) Reports of cases 
in law and equity argued and determined in the Supreme court 
of the state of Georgia, three volumes ; volume 1, including 
the year 1846 ; volume 2, commencing January 1847 ; volume 
3, commencing July 1847 : 8vo large, vol. 1, 679p ; vol. 2, 
524p ; vol. 3, 637p : vol. 1, published by Edward O. Jenkins, 
New York, 1847 ; vols. 2 and 3, at Savarmah by W. T. Willi- 
ams ; vol. 2, in 1847 and vol. 3, in 1848 ; deposited by James 
M. Kelley. 

Kelsey (WilHam R.) The Apiarians guide, being a practical treatise oii 



185 [ 1 ] 

the culture and management of bees, by William R. Kelsey : 
])amplilet 12mo 4op — Syracuse, printed by Kiimey, INIarsh & 
J^arnes, 1847. 

IvENXKDY (John p.) Memoirs of the life of William Wirt, Attorney General 
of the United States, in two volumes : 8vo large, \ol. 1, 417p ; 
vol. 2, 4-j()p — Philadelphia, pul)lished by Lea & Blanchard, 
1849 : deposited by Lea & JJlanchard. 

Kent (James) Commentaries on American Law, four volumes sixth edition ; 
8vo large, vol. 1, 560p ; vol. 2, 646p ; vol. 3, 514p; vol. 4, 
586p— ^ New York, published by William Kent, 1848 ; depo- 
sited by W. Kent. 

Kent (Edward N.) Instructions for collecting, testing, melting and assay- 
ing gold : 8vo :39p — New York, 1848. 

KiDXKV (John Steinfort) Catawba river, and other poems: 12mo 119p — 
New York, published by Eaker & Scribner, 1847 ; deposited 
by J. S. Kidney. 

KiXGSBURY (Harmon) The Immigrant's Good Samaritan : 16mo 117p — 
New York, published by D. Fanshaw ; deposited by E. Vernon. 

KiRKLAND (Mrs.) Holidays abroad, or Europe from the West, two volumes 
12mo ; vol. 1, 30;Jp ; vol. 2, ;3:i2p — New York, publisheil by 
Eaker & Scribner, 1849 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

Klipstein (Louis F.) Analecta Anglo Saxonica ; selections in prose and 
verse, from the Anglo Saxon literature, with an introductory 
Ethnological essay and notes, critical and explanatory, two 
volumes 12mo : vol. 1, 430p ; vol. 2, 444p — New York, pul)- 
lished by George P. Putnam, 1849 ; deposited by George P. 
Putnam. 

Knapp (Dr. F.) Chemical Technology, or Chemistry applied to the arts and 
to manufacturers, translated and edited with numerous notes 
and additions, by Dr. Edmund Ronalds and Dr. Thomas Rich- 
ardson; first American edition, with notes and additions by* 
Professor Walter R. Johnson, Vol. 1., illustrated with two-hun- 
dred and fourteen engravings on wood: 8vo large, 504p — 
Philadelphia, jjubHslied by Lea & Blanchard, 1848. 

Lamsox (David R.) Two years experience among the Sbakers, being a de- 
scription of the manners and customs of that people, the nature 
and policy of their government, &c., &c.: 12mo 212p — W^est 
Boylestou, ])ublisheil by the author, 1848; deposited by D- R. 
Lampson. 

Landis (Kobert VV.) Liberty's Triumph, a poem: 8vo ''j44p — New York, 
published by John Wiley, 3849; deposited by R. W. Landis. 

Lapiiam (I. A.) Wisconsin, its geography and topography, history, geol- 
ogy and mineralogy, together with brief sketches of its anti- 
quities, natural history, soil, productions and government ; 
second edition, greatly improved: 12mo 208p — Milwaukie, 
published by J. JL Hopkins, I84(i ; deposited by Licrease A. 
Lapham. 

Latta (Rev. S. A., A. M. M. D.) Ciuiin of Sacred Wonders: 16mo 211p 
— published by the author at Cincinnati, 1>^49 ; d.epositexl by 
the author. 



[ 1 ] 186 

Lawrence (Robert F.) Lectures to Youth, containing instructions prepa- 
ratory to their entrance upon the active duties of life : IGmo 
193p — Boston, published by James French, 1848 ; deposited 
by R. F. Lawrence. 

Lawrence (W. F. R. S.) A Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, a new- 
edition, edited with numerous additions, and one-hundred and 
seventy-six illustrations, by Isaac Hays, M. D. : 8vo large, 
859p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1847; do- 
posited by Lea & Blanchard. 

Leeser (Isaac,) The book of daily Prayers for every day in the year, ac- 
cording to the custom of the German and Polish Jews [Hf- 
brew and English] : 8vo 243p — Philadelphia, published by 
C. Sherman, 5608 ; deposited by Isaac Leeser.- 

Leonard (L. W.) Analysis of the elementary sounds of the English Lan- 
guage, designed to accompany a chart of the same, with Wor- 
cester's notation, by George Tilden : 16mo 36p — Keene, M . 
H., published by George Tilden, 1848 ; deposited by George 
Tilden. 

The North American Spelling Book, conformed to Wor- 
cester's dictionary, with a progressive series of easy reading- 
lessons, new edition, revised and enlarged : 12mo 180p — 
Keene, published by George Tilden, 1847 ; deposited by 
George Tilden. 

Leseur (Francis) A new system of Christian Philosophy : 8vo 40p — 
Hartford, 1848. 

Leslie (Miss Eliza) Amelia, or a young lady's vicissitudes, a novel com- 
plete in one volume : 8vo pamphlet 86p — Philadelphia, 
published by Carey & Hart, 1848 ; deposited by Carey £: 
Hart. 

Leonilla Lynmore, and Mr. and Mrs. Woodbridge, or 
a lesson for young wives, also, Dudley Villiers : 8vo pamphlet 
118p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; de- 
posited by Carey & Hart. 

The Indian meal book, comprising the best receij)!,'^ 
for the preparation of that article: ]2mo 71p — Philadelphia, 
published by Carey & Hart, 1847 ; deposited by Carey & 
Hart. 

The Lady's receipt book, a useful companion for large 
and small families, being a sequel lo her former work on domestic 
cooking, comprising new and improved tlirections for preparing 
soups, fish, meats, vegetables, poultry, game, pies, puddings, 
cakes, confectionery, sweet-meats, jellies, &c. ; also, a list of 
dishes for breakfast, dinner and supper table : 12mo 40op — 
Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847. 
LiDDELL (Henry George, M. D., and Scott (Robert, M. D.,) A Greek En- 
glish lexicon, based on the German work of Francis Passow, 
with corrections and additions, and the insertion in alphabetical 
order of the proper names occurring in the principal Greek 
authors, by Henry Drisler, M. A. ; lexicon 8vo 170op : New 



187 [ 1 ] 

York, ])ublishotl by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by 
Hiirper & Brothers. 

Locke (J. l)e Clinton) The Swiss family Ro])inson, second series, bein^the 
conlitnuition of the work already publislied under that title, 
translat(Ml from the French, l)y J. De Clinton Locke, two vols, 
16mo ; vol. 1, 258p ; voL 2, 237p — New York, published by 
Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

LocKwooD (Ralph) An analytical and practical synopsis of all the cases 
argued and reversed in hiw and equity in the court for the cor- 
rection of errors of the State of New York, from 1799 to 1^47, 
with the names of the cases and a table of the titles, &c. : Svo 
large, 603p — New York, ])ul)lished by Banks, Gould & Co., 
1848 ; deposited by Banks, Gouhl & Co. 

Longfellow (Henry Wadsworth) Evangeline, a tale of Acadia, sixth edi- 
tion : 12mo IGop — Boston, published by William D. Ticknor 
& Co., 1848 ; deposited by H. W. Longfellow. 

LooMis (Elias, A. M.) Elements of geometry and conic sections : 8vo 222p 
— New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; depo- 
sited by Harper & Brothers. 

Tables of Logarithms of numbers and sines, and tan- 
gents for every ten sccoikIs of the quadrant, with other useful 
tal)les : 8vo large, loOp — New" York, published by Harjx'r 
& Brothers, 1848 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Elements of plain and spherical trigonometry, with 
their applications to mensuration, surveying and navigation : 
8vo large, 148p — New York, published by Harper & Bro- 
thers, 1848 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 
liORRAi^E (Carl) Gems for boys and girls : 18mo 112p — Hartford, puldished 
by Brown & Parsons, 1849 ; deposited by Brown & Parsons. 

LossiNG (B. J.) Biographical Sketches of the Signers of the Declaration 
of American Independence, the declaration historically consi- 
dered, and a sketch of the leading events connected with the 
adoption of the articles of confederation and the federal consti- 
tution, illustrated l)y fifty portraits and other engravings: 12mo 
384p — New York, published by George F. Cooledge & 
Brother, 1848 ; deposited by George F. Cooledge & Brother. 

A Pictoiial description of Ohio, comprising a sketch of its 
physical geography, history, political divisions, resources, gov- 
ernment and constitution, antiquities, public lands, &c., com- 
])ile(l from the best authorities, illustrated by maps and foity 
engravings : 8vo 131]) — New York, published by Ensign & 
Thayer, 1849 ; deposited by Ensign &, Thayer. 

Luce (D. G.) An Analysis of the principles of Equity pleading, containing 
a compendium of the ])ractice of the high court of chancery 
and the foundation of its rules, together with an illustration of 
the analogy between pleadings at common law and e(|uily, yv- 
cond American from the last London edition, with notes and 
references to the American cases, by .J. ]). Wheeler : !^vo 
large, 4lDp — New York, published by Baidcs, Gould (Sc Co., 
1816; deposited by ]?anks, Gould & Co. 



[ 1 ] 188 

Lynch (Anne C) Poeins with illustrations : Svo 189p — New York, puli- 
lished by George P. Putnam, 1849 ; deposited by George P, 
Putnam. 

Lynch (W. F., U. S. N.) Narratives of the United States Expedition to 
the River Jorchm and the Dead Sea, with maps and numeroiLs 
ilhistrations : Svo large, 508p — Philadelphia, published by 
Lea & Blanchard 1849 ; deposited by Lea & Elanchard. 

Lynd (James,) The Class Book of Etymology, designed to promote preci- 
sion in the use, and facilitate the acquisition of a knowledge of 
the English language : 12mo 277p, with a ke to both Greek, 
Latin and other roots, in 58p — Philadelphia, published by E. 
C. & J. Biddle, 1847 ; deposited by E. C. & J. Biddle. 

The First Book of Etymology, designed to promote pre- 
cision in the use, and facilitate the acquisition of a knowledge 
of the English language for beginnei's : 12mo 21op — Phila- 
delphia, published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 1847. 

M'Clelland (George, M. D.) Principles and Practice of Surgery, edited 
by his son, John H. B. M'Clelland, M. D. : Svo large, 402]) 
— Philadelphia, published by Grigo:, Elliott & Co., 1848 ; de- 
posited by John H. B. IVI'delland."^ 

M'Clintock (John,) and Crook (G. R.) A First Book in Latin, containing 
Grammar exercises and vocabulas, on the method of constant 
imitation ctfid repetition, second edition: Svo 409p — New 
York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by 
Harper & Brothers. 

A First Book in Greek, containing n 
full view of the form of words, with vocabularies and copious 
exercises on the method of constant imitation and repetition : 
Svo 315p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers 1848 ; 
deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

M'Clure (Samuel) The Psalms of David, and song of Solomon, in metre : 
16mo 304p — Lewistown, Pennsylvania, published by Samuel 
M'Clure, 1849 ; deposited by Samuel M'Clure. 

M'CoRD (Louisa S.) My Dreams: 12mo 211p — Phihulelphia, published 
by Carey & Hart, 1848 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Macgregor, (James Jr.) Mechanics' Guide for constructing belting, pul- 
leys, cone pulleys and water wheels, &c., also, for computing 
the power of water wheels and high pressure steam engines, 
by James Macgregor, Jr., pamphlet: 12mo 36p — Washing- 
ton, printed by" John T. Towers, 184G. 

M'Guffey (William H., D. D.,) Newly revised Eclectic Pi imer, with pic- 
torial illustrations : 16mo 60p — New York, published l)y 
Clark, Austin & Smith, 1849 ; deposited by Winthrop B. Smith, 

Eclectic First Reader, permanent stereotype 
edition : 12mo lOSp — Cincinnati, published by W. B. Smith, 
1848 ; deposited by W. B. Smith. 

Newly revised Eclectic Second Reader, per- 
manent stereotype edition : 12mo 192p — Cincinnati, published 
■ by W. B. Smith, 1848 ; deposited by Winthrop B. Smith. 



189 [ 1 ] 

M'GuFFEY (William H.,D. D.) Newly revised Eclectic Third Reader, per- 
manent stereotype edition : 8vo 'ilGp — Cincinnati, published 
[)y W. B. Smith, 184S ; deposited Uy VV. B. Smith. 

Newly i-evised Fourth Reader, permanent 
stereotvjie edition: l:2mo ooGp — Cincinnati, })ul)lished by VV. 
B. Smith, JSdS; deposited by W. 13. Smitli. 
Mackellar (Thomas) Tani's fortnight rand)Ie, and other poems; 12mo 
216p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847; de- 
posited by T. Mackellar. 

M'MuRTRiE (Henry, M. D.) Lexicon scientiarum ; a dictionary of terms 
used in the various l)ranches of anatomy, botany, geology, o-e- 
ometry, hygiene, mineralogy, natural philosophy, physiology, 
zoology, &c : 12mo 246p — Philadelphia, published by E. ('. 
& J. Biddle, 1847 ; deposited by E. C. & J. Biddle. 

Magoon (E. L.) Living orators in America: 12mo 462p — New York, 
published by Baker & Scribner, 1849 ; deposited by Baker c^ 
Scribnei'. 

Orators of the American revolution: 12mo 4o6p — New 
York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; deposited bv 
Baker & Scribner. 
Maiian (Rev. xVsa) The True Believer, his character, duty and ])rivileges, 
elucidated in a series of discourses ; 12mo 280p — New York, 
published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; dej)osited by Harper 
& Brothers." 

Maistre (M. Le Conte Joseph de) Essay on the generative principle of po- 
litical constitutitions, translated from the French ; IGrao 173p 
— Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1847 ; deposited by 
Little & Brown. 

Mallorv (R. 1^.) A panoramic view from Bunker Hill monument — Boston, 
published by Redding & Co., 1818 ; depositctl by J. C. Cross- 
man and R. P. Mallory. 

Mandevilee (IL, D. D.) An introduction to the author's "Course of 
Reading, and elements of Reading and Oratory," part fust : 
12mo212p — New York, put)lished by ]). Appleton & Co., 
1848; deposited by D. Appleton & Co. 

^L\xsFiELD (Edward D., Esq.,) The Mexican war; a history of its oi'igin, 
and a detailed account of the victories which terminated in the 
surrender of the Capital, with the official dispatches of the 
Generals, illustrated with maps and engravings : 12mo 323i) — 
New York, published by H. S. Barnes & Co., 1848 ; deposited 
by H. S. Barnes & Co. 

Markie\:.i (Mrs.) A History of France from the conquest of Gaul by Juli- 
us Cicsar, to the reign of Louis Phillippe, with conversations 
at the end of each chapter, prejiared for the use of schools ; 
the addition of a map, notes and questions, and a supplemen- 
tary chapter bringing down the history to the present time, by 
Jacob Abbott : 12mo ()29p — New Yoik, })ui)lishcd by Harper 
& Brothers 1848; deposited by Harper & Brothers, 



[ 1 ] 190 

Marquart (John, Jr.) and Schreiner (Henry,) Gaging Simplified, or 
every merchant his own gager : 12mo 44p — Phihidelphia, 
published by William S. Young, 1849; deposited by John Mar- 
quart and Henry Schreiner. 

Marryatt (Captain,) Valerie, a tale, one volume, 8vo pamphlet 98p — 
Philadelphia, i)ublished by Carey & Hart, 1849. 

Marsh (C. C.) La Ciencia de Teneduria de Libros, simplificada por la apli- 
cacion de una regla infalible para acertar el deudor y el acredor, 
l)ien calculada para ens ensenar completamente la teoria y 
practica de la partida doble, sienda una serie de operaciones 
mercantiles bien escojidas, y arriglidas para former un curso 
completo de instruccion practicas designado paro el uso de escu- 
elas y Casas de Comercio de las Americas. Acompanando 
numerosos ejaraplos de calcalos mercantiles. Traducido de la 

4 Vigisima Edicion inglesa por A. G. Beck, Bajo la immediata 

inspeccion del Autor: Svo 195p — New York, published by J, 
C. Riker, 1849: deposited by C. C. Marsh. 

Marvix (J. G.) Legal Bibliography, or a thesaurus of American, English, 
Irish and Scotch law books, too-ether with some continental 
treatises, mterspersed with critical observations upon their vari- 
ous editions and authority, to which is prefixed a copious list 
of abbreviations, by J. G. Marvin, counsellor at law^ : 8vo 
800p — Philadelphia, T. & J. W. Jolmson, 1847; deposited 
by J. G. Marvin. 

Mason (John M., D D) The complete works of John M. Mason, D D, in 
four volumes, edited by his son, Ebenezer Mason: 8vo large, 
vol. 1, 557p; vol. 2, 593p ; vol. 3, 598p ; vol. 4, 579p — New 
York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1849 ; deposited by 
Baker & Scribner. 

Mason (Richard, M. D.,) Mason's Farrier and stud book, new^ edition, to 
which is added a prize essay on mules, and an appendix con- 
taining recipes for diseases of horses, oxen, cows, calves, sheep, 
dogs, swine, &c., with a supplement, comprising an essay on 
domestic animals, especially the horse, &c., by J. S. Skinner : 
12mo 41-5p — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 
1848; deposited by John Grigg. 

Maxwell (John L.) The Czar, his court and people,, including a tour in 
Norway and Sweden : 12mo 368p — New York, published by 
Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

May (Caroline) The American Female Poets, with l)iographical and critical 
notices: 8vo large, 032p — Philadelphia, published by Lind- 
say & Blakiston, 1848 ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston. 

Mayne (John, M. D.,) A Dispensatory and Therapeutical Remembrancer: 
comprising the entire lists of materia medica, preparations and 
compounds, with a full and distinct version of every practical 
formula, as authorized by the London, Edinburgh, and Dublin 
Royal college of physicians, &c., revised, with the addition of 
the formula of the United States Pharmacopeia, &c., by R. 
Eglefield Griffith, M D : 8vo 329p — Philadelphia, published 
by Lea & Blanchard, 1848 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard. 



191 [ 1 ] 

Mavo (W. S., M. ]).) Kiiloolah, or joiirnc} ings to the Djebel Kumri, an 
aulobioo-rapliy of Jonathan Roiner : 12ino 514p — New York, 
])ul)Hshe(l by George P. Putnam, 1849 ; deposited by W. S. 
.Mayo, M. D. 

Metcs (Charles D., AI. D.) Females and tluir Diseases, a series of letters 
to his class: 8vo large, G7()p — Philadelphia, published by 
Lea & Elanchard, 1848; deposited by Lea <Sc Elanehard. 

OI)stetrics, the science and the art, with illus- 
trations : 8vo 68-jp — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blan- 
chard, 1849 ; deposited by Lea & Elanchard. 

Mf.igs (J. Forsyth, M. D.) A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of Chil- 
dren : 8vo ")7op — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & 131a- 
kiston, 1848 ; deposited by J. F. Meigs, M. D. 

Mr.LViLLE (Herman,) Redburn, his first voyage, being the sailor boy con- 
fession and reminiscence of the son of a gentleman in the mer- 
chant service: l*2mo o90p — New York, puldished by Harper 
& Brothers, 1849 ; deposited by 11. Melville. 

Mardi, and a voyage thither, two volumes, 12mo 
Vol. l,o6'5p; Y'ol. 2, ;387p — New York, published by Har- 
per & Brothers ; deposited by H. Melville, 

Omoo, a narrative of adventures in the South Seas : 
12mo G89p — New York, published by Harper & Brother, 
1847 ; tleposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Typee, a peep at Polynesian life, during a four 
months' residence in the valley of the Marquesas, the revised 
edition, with a sequel, by Herman Melville: 12mo 307p — 
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849 ; deposited 
by Henry Melville. 

MV-TCALr (Theron) Repoits of cases argued and determined in the Supreme 
judicial couit of Massachusetts, volumes 10, 11 and 12 : 8vo 
•jarge — vol. 10, 640p ; vol. 11, 629p ; vol. 12, 61op — Bos- 
ton, published by Little & Brown, 1849 ; deposited by Little 
& Brown. 

Miles (Pliny) American Mnemotechny, or Art of Ylcmory, theoretical and 
practical, on the basis of the most recent discoveries and im- 
provements in Europe and America, &c., with a mnemotechnic 
dictionary, second edition : 12mo 408p — New York, published 
by Wiley & Putnam, 1848 ; deposited by P. Miles. 

* Same, fifth edition : P2mo 430p — Pul)lished by M. H. New- 
man & Co., 1848; deposited by P. Miles. 

Th(> Statistical Register and book of general reference and 
quotations, a compilation of remarkable events from Ancient 
and Modern history; great discoveries and inventions; literary 
and biographical chronology, remarkable battles, lists of so- 
vereigns, &c. ; also, jioetical and prose selections, geographical 
statistics, value of coins, specific gravities, astronomical statis- 
tics, sentiments of flowers, mythological tables, names, &c., 
second edition : 12mo 200p — New York, published by Mark 
H. Newman & Co., 1849 ; deposited by Pliny Miles. 



[ 1 ] 192 

Miller (H., M. D.) A theoretical and practical treatise on human parturi- 
tion : 8vo large, 46-3p — Louisville, published by John V. 
Cowling and George C. Davis, 1849 ; deposited by Henry 
Miller. 

Miller (Linus W.) Notes of an exile to Van Dieman's Land, comprising 
incidents of the Canadian rebellion in 1838, trial of the author 
in Canada and subsequent appearance before her Majesty's 
court of queen's Bench in London, imprisonment in England, 
and transportation to Van Dieman's Land, also an account of 
the horrible sufferings endured by ninety political prisoners, 
during a residence of six years in that land of British slavery, 
together with sketches of the island, its history, productions, 
inhabitants, &c., &c. : 12mo — Fredonia, New York, 1846; 
deposited by Linus W. Miller. 

MiNiFiE (William,) A text book of Geometrical Drawings, abridged from 
the octavo edition for the use of schools, with an introduction 
to isometiical drawing, and an essay on linear perspective and 
shadows, the whole illustrated with forty-eight steel plates : 
12mo loOp — Baltimore, published ])y William Minifie & Co., 
1849 ; deposited by William Minifie, 

The Architect, a text book of geometrical drawings 
for the use of mechanics' and schools, with an introduction to 
isometrical drawing, and an essay on linear perspective and 
shadows, the whole illustrated with fifty-six steel plates, con- 
taining over two-hundred diagrams : 8vo large, 127p — Bal- 
timore, published by William Minifie & Co., 1849 ; deposited 
by William Minifie. 

MiNOT (George) Public Laws of the United States of America, passed at 
the second session of the thirtieth Congress, 1848-1849, 
carefully collated with the originals at Washington, to be con- 
tinued annually : 8vo large, lolp — Boston, published by 
Little & Brown, 1849 ; deposited by Little & Brown. 

Mitchel (O. M., a. M.) The Planetary and Stellar World, a popular ex- 
position of the great discoveries and theories of modern astron- 
omy, in a series of ten lectures : 12mo 336p — New York, 
published by Baker and Scribner, 1848 ; deposited by O. M. 
Mitchel. 

Mitchell (S. Augustus) Intermediate or Secondary Geography, a system 
of modern geography comprising a description of the present 
state of the world, and its five great divisions — America, &c : 
illustrated l)y forty maps and numerous wood cut engravings : 
4to 80p : — Philadelphia, pubhshed by Thomas, Cowperthwaite 
& Co 1849 ; deposited by S. Augustus Mitchell. 

Mitchell (Donald G.) Gresh Gleanings, or a new sheaf from the old fields 
of Continental Europe, by Ik. Marvel : 12mo 3(i(ip — New York, 
published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper k, 
Brothers. 

MoHR (Francis Philip D.) and Redwood (Thcophilus) Practical Pharmacy, 
the arrangements, apparatus and manipulations of the pharma- 
ceutical shop and laboratory, edited with extensive additions. 



193 [ 1 ] 

edited with extensive additions by William Proctor, Jr. ; illus- 
trated by five hundred engravings on wood : 8vo large, '576p 

— I'bihulelphia, jniblished by Lea & Jilanchard, 1S49 ; depo- 
sited by Lea & Blanchard. 

MoXELL (Claudius L.) A treatise on tlie practice of the courts of the 
State of New York, adapted to the code of procedure as amend- 
ed by the act of April 4, 1849, and the rules of the Supreme 
court, to which is added the practice in courts of justices of the 
peace, with an appendix of practical forms: 8vo large,' 575p 

— Albany, published by GoukI, Banks & Gould, l!S49 ; depo- 
sited by Gould, Banks & Gould. 

MoNETTE (John W., M. D.) History of the discovery and settlement of the 
valley of the Mississippi, by the three great European powers, 
Spain, France and Great Britain, and the subsequent occupa- 
tion, settlement and extension of the civil government of the 
United States, until the year 1846, in two volumes : 8vo large, 
vol. 1, 561p; vol. 2, oiJop — New York, published by Harper 
& Brothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Monro (Rev. Edward) The Combatants ; an allegory. From the London 
edition; with engravings executed by B. F. Childs from original 
designs by Darley : 12mo 182p — New York, published by the 
General Protestant Episcopal Sunday School Union, 1848 ; de- 
posited by John W. Mitchell. 

Montague (Edward P.) Narrative of the late expedition to the Dead Sea, 
from a diary by one of the party; with incidents and adventures 
from the time of the sailing of the expedition in November 1847, 
till the return of the same in December 1848. Illustrated with a 
map of the Holy Land, handsomely colored . 16mo 3o6p — 
Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849 , deposited by 
Carey & Hart. 

Moore (Jacob Bailey) Memoirs of American governors, vol. 1: 8vo lar^'e, 
439p — New York published by Gates & Stedman, 1846; 
deposited by Jacob Bailey Moore. 

MoREHEAD (Hon. J. M.) The Siamese Twins: 8vo 24p — published at 
Raleigh, 1848. 

MoRi'iT (Campbell) Chemical and Pharmaceutic Manipulations ; a manual 
of the mechanical and chemic-mechanical operations of the labo- 
ratory, containing a complete description of the most approved 
apparatus, with instructions as to their api)lication and manao-e- 
ment, both in manufacturing processes and in the more exact 
details of analysis and accurate research, by C. Moriit, assisted 
by Alexander Muckle ; with four hundred and twenty-three 
illustrations : 8vo large, 482p — Philadelphia, published by 
Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849. 

Chemistry applied to the manufacture of soaji and can- 
dles ; illustrated with one hundred and seventy engravings on 
wood: 8vo •544p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 
1847 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Manures; their composition, preparation and action upon 
Mis.— 13. 



[ 1 ] 194 

soils, with the quantities to be applied; being a field companion 
for the farmer ; from the French of standard authorities : 16mo 
lOOp — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1848 ; 
deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston. 

Perfumery, its manufacture and use, with instructions ill 
every branch of the art and recipes for all the fashionable pre- 
parations, illustrated by numerous woodcuts. From the French 
of Celnart and other late authorities, with additions and im- 
provements . 12mo 28op — Philadelphia, published by Carey 
& Hart, 1847 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 
MoRLEY (C.) The Power of Kindness: 12mo 108p — New York, published 
by J. R. Wellman, 1846 ; deposited by C. Morley. 

Morris (Pemberton P.) A Practical Treatise on the Law of Replevin in the 
United States ; with an appendix of forms and a digest of sta-' 
tutes : 8vo large, 316p — Philadelphia, published by James 
Kay, Jr. & Brother, 1849; deposited by James Kay, Jr. & 
Brother. 

Moses Thomas P.) Leisure Thoughts in prose and verse: 12mo 192p — ' 
Portsmouth, published by Samuel A. Badger, 1849 ; deposited 
by Samuel A Badger. 

Muhlenberg (Henry A.) The Life of Major General Peter Muhlenberg of 
the revolutionary army, by Henry A. Muhlenberg : 12mo 456p 
— Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849 ; deposited 
by Carey & Hart. 

Muller (J.) Principles of Physics and Meteorology; first American edition, 
revised and illustrated with five-hundred and thirty-eight en- 
gravings on wood and two colored plates : 8vo GSop — Phila- 
delphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848 ; deposited by 
Lea &, Blanchard. 

Muir (John) The American Formulary, comprising oath, verdict, deed, 
will, indenture, contract, lease, bond, notice, petition and other 
useful forms, pertaining to judicial and social affairs; with re- 
marks concerning witnesses, jurors, verdicts, lawyers, instruc- 
tions, wills, contracts, &c., 18mo — Alexandria, 1849 ; de- 
posited by John Muir. 

The American Reference Book, comprising in sundry divi- 
sions, divers useful tables, abbreviations, forms, rules, remarks, 
&c., &c., pamphlet: 18mo — Baltimore, 1847 ; deposited by 
John Muir. 
Murphy (John M'Leod,) and Jeffers (W. N. Jr.) Nautical routine and 
stowage; with short rules in Navigation: 8vo 174p — New 
York, published by Henry Spear 1849; deposited by Henry 
Spear. 

Myers (Hamilton P.) The First of the Knickerbockers, a tale of 1673, 
second edition: 12mo 222p — New York, published by George 
P. Putnam, 1849 ; deposited by George P. Putnam. 

My Mother: or recollections of maternal influence : 12mo 240p — New 
York, published by William H. Hyde, 1849; deposited by 
William H. Hyde. 



195 [ 1 ] 

MvLNE (J. W.) and Craig (R. D.,) Reports of cases argued and deter- 
mined in the liii^h court of chancery, during the time of Lord 
Chancellor Cottenham ; with notes and references to botli 
English and American decisions, by John A. Dunlap, counsellor 
at law, vol. 4, 1838-39-40 ; 2, 3,'and 4 Victoria— [See Dun- 
lap] : 8vo large, 719 — New York, published by Banks, Gould 
& Co., and at Albany by Gould, Banks & Gould, 1846 ; depo- 
sited by Banks, Gould & Co. 

Napoleon and the Marshals of the Empire, complete in two volumes, with 
sixteen steel portraits in military costume : 8vo, vol. 1, 348p; 
vol. 2, 372p: Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 184S ; 
deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Neander (Augustus) The Life of Jesus Christ in its historical connexion and 
historical development; translated from the fourth German edi- 
tion, by John M'Clintock and Charles E. Bluracnthal : 8vo 
large, 4o0p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 
1848 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Neill (John, M. D.,) and Smith (Francis Gurney, M. D.,) An analytical 
compendium of the various branches of medical science, for the 
use and examination of students ; containing — 1, anatomy, 12mo, 
180p ; 2, Physiology, 133p ; 3, Surgery, 122p ; 4, Obstetrics, 
113p ; D, Mateiia Medica and Therapeutics, ll'Op; 6, Chem- 
istry, 93p : 7, Practice of Medicine, l'52p, ]2mo -r- Phila- 
delphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848 ; deposited by 
Lea & Blanchard. 

Newton (Sir Isaac,) Principia. The mathematical principles of Natural Phi- 
losophy translated into English by Andrew Mott ; to which is 
added Newton's system of the world ; with a portrait taken 
from the bust in the Royal observatory at Greenwich ; first 
American edition, carefully revised and corrected, with a life of 
the author, by N. W. Chittenden: 8vo large, 581 p — New 
York, published by Daniel Adee, 1848 ; depositetl by Daniel 
Adee. 

New Testament (The) in Comstock's perfect alphabet : Svo 397p — Phi- 
ladelphia, published by A. Comstock, M. D., 1848 ; deposited 
by Andrew^ Comstock, M. D. 

Nicholson (A.) Ireland's welcome to the stranger, or, an excursion throuodi 
Ireland in 1844 — 15, for the purpose of personally investigatiiiir 
the condition of the poor: 12ino 4oC)p — -New Yoi-k, jniblished 
by Baker & Scribner, 1847 ; deposited by A. Nicholson. 

NoRRLS (William Henry,) Brown (George William,) and Bri ne (Frede- 
rick William, Jr.,) Digest of the Maryland reports, comprising 
Harris & M'Henry, four volumes; Harris &. Jt)hnson, seven 
volumes; Harris & Gill, two volumes; Gill & Johnson, 
twelve volumes ; Bland's chancery reports, three volumes : 
Svo large, 922p — Baltimore, published by Cushing & Bro- 
ther; deposited by the authors. 

NoRTHEND ( Charles, ) School dialogues ; being a collection of exer- 
cises particularly designed for the use of schools i 12mo oo2p 



[ 1 ] 196 

— Syracuse, published by L. W. Hall, 1849 ; deposited by 
Charles Northend. 

Norton (Rev. Herman,) Record of Facts, concerning the persecutions at 
Madeira, in 1848 and 1846; the flight of a thousand converts 
to the West India Islands; and also the sufferings of those who 
arrived in the United States : IGmo 228p — New^ York, pub- 
lished by the American Protestant Society, 1849 ; deposited by 
Edward Vernon. 

Notes on the structure and philosophy of the English language, designed 
for mutual or self instruction; also a text book for review in 
high schools, academies, and colleges: w4th a lecture on elocu- 
tion, by the author of "Lectures on the English Language" : 
18mo 43p — New York, published by Redfield & Savage, 

1846 ; deposited by J. H. Hull. 

Nutting (B. F.) Initiatory drawing cards, in four parts, eighteen cards in 
each, presenting carefully drawn examples, and accompanied 
by directions illustrating the first principles of drawing, for the 
use of schools and families : 16mo — Boston, published by M. 
J. Whipple, 1849 ; deposited by M. J. Whipple. 

Observations and exhortations based upon the catechism of the Protes- 
tant Episcopal Church; intended chiefly for the use of teachers 
in instructing classes of servants or other uneducated persons, 
designed to accompany the church catechism, simplified by a 
member of the diocese of South Carolina: IGmo 84p — New 
Fork, published by Daniel Dana, Jr., 1847 ; deposited by Dan- 
iel Dana, Jr. 

Oldcook, (Dr.) Receipt Book; with notes for the preservation of health: 
12mo 144p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 

1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Olney (J., A. M.) A Practical Introduction to the Study of Geographyj 
embellished with maps from steel plates, and engravings on 
wood : 16mo 108p — New York, published by Pratt, Wood- 
ford & Co., 1847 ; deposited by Canfield & Robins. 

School Atlas containing twenty-four maps : 4to — New 
York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co. ; deposited by D. 
F. Robinson. 

An Elementary Geography, adapted to Olney's outline 
maps, for common schools and general use : IGmo 90p — New 
York, published by Pratt, W^oodford & Co., 1847 ; deposited 
by Pratt, Woodford & Co. 

A practical system of modern geography simplified and 
adapted to the capacity of youth; containing numerous tables, 
and embellished with numerous engravings of manners, cus- 
toms, &c., revised and illustrated by a new and enlarged atlas, 
fifty-fifth edition : 12mo 300p — New York, publishedby Pratt, 
Woodford & Co., 1847 ; deposited by D. F. Robinson. 
Onderdonk (Henry, Jr.) Documents and letters intended to illustrate the 
revolutionary incidents of Queens county; v;ith connecting nar- 
ratives, explanatory notes and additions : 12mo 264p — New 



197 [ 1 ] 

York, published by Leavitt, Trow & Co., 1846 ; deposited by 
H. Onderdonk, Jr. 

Revolutionary incidents of Suffolk and Kings coun- 
ties; with an account of the battle of Long Island, and the 
British prisons and prison ships of New York : 12mo 268p — 
New York, publisheii by Leavitt & Co. 1H49. 

Orphan Twins (The) ; or the adventures of a brother and sister; a poem*. 
12mo lOOp — New York, published l)y Stanford & Swords, 
1849 ; deposited by David Bigler. 

Orton (J. W.) The miner's guide and metallurgist's directory : 16mo 8()p 

— New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1849, depo- 
sited by A. S. Barnes & Co. 

Osgood (Frances Sargent) Poems; illustrated by Huntingdon, Darly, Ros- 
siter, Cushman and Osgood : 8vo 466p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by Carey & Hart, 1850 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Oswald (John,) An Etymological Dictionary of the English Language; 
revised ami improved, an<l especially adapted to the purpose of 
teacTiing English composition in schools and academies, by J. 
M. Keazy ; to which is appended a key to the Latin, Greek, 
and other roots: 12nio — Philadelphia, 1847; deposited by E. 
C. & J, Biddle. 

Outlines of the History of France, from the earliest times to the Revo- 
lution of 1848; for schools and families, with numerous- engra- 
vings and questions for the examination of pupils : 16mo 240p 

— Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait &, Co., 
1848 ; deposited by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co. 

Paia'e (Martyn, A. M., M. D.) The Institutes of Medicine : 8vo large, 
826p— New Fork, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847; 
deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Materia Medica and Therapeutics : 12mo 
411p — New York, })ublished by Samuel S. & William Wood, 
1848 ; deposited by Samuel S. & W'illiam W^ood, 

Page (David P., A. M.) Theory and practice of teaching, or the motives 
and methods of good school-keeping : 12mo 349p — Syracuse, 
published by Hall & Dickson, 1847 ; deposited by D. P. Page. 

Paley (William,) A Treatise on the Law of Principal and Agent, chiefly 
with reference to mercantile transactions ; thiKl edition, with 
considerable additions, by J. H. Lloyd, third American edition, 
with further extensive additions, by J. A. Dunlap : 8vo large, 
4()lp— New York, published by Jianks, Gould & Co., 1847 ; 
deposited by Banks, Gould & Co. 

Parental Instruction, or Guide to Wisdom and Virtue; designed for young 
persons of both sexes; selected chiefly IVom the wiitings of an 
eminent physician: 12mo 2o2p — New York, pul)lished by 
Harper & l^rothers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Parker (Richard Green, A. M.) Geographical Questions. (Questions in Ge- 
ography, adapted for the use of Morse's, Woodbridge's, Wor- 
cester's, Mitchel's, Field's, Malte Brun's, Smith's, Olney's, 
Goodrich's, or any other respcctacle collection of maps ; to 



[ 1 ] 198 

which is added a concise description of the terrestrial globe : 
12ino 60p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 
1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Parker (Richard Green) First Lessons in Natural Philosophy ; abridged 
from the compendium of school philosophy: IGmo 150p — 
New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1848 ; deposited 
by A. S. Barnes & Co. 

A school compendium of natural and experi- 
mental Philosophy, embracing the elementary principles of 
mechanics, hydrostatics, hydraulics, pneumatics, acoustics, py- 
ronomies, optics, astronomy, electricity, galvanism, magnetism, 
electro magnetism, and magneto electricity, wath a description 
of the steam and locomotive engines, a new edition with addi- 
tions and improvements : 8vo 882p — New York, published by 
A. S. Barnes & Co., 1848 ; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co. 

Rhetorical Reader, exercises in rhetorical 
reading, with a series of introductory lessons : 12mo 432p — 
New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., l!;j49 ; deposited 
• by A. S. Barnes. 

Parke (Uriah) Stewart's new edition, farmers' mechanics' and merchant's 
practical Arithmetic, revised and improved, with additions; 
twentieth edition : 12mo 179p — Hagerstown, published by W. 
Stewart, 1848 ; deposited by W. Stewart. 

Parkman (Francis, Jr.,) The California and Oregon trail ; being sketches 
of Prairie and Rocky mountain life : 12rao 448p — New York, 
pubhshed by George P. Putnam, 1849 ; deposited by George 
P. Putnam. 

Patterns for ornamenting the covers of books, patterns of rolls, stamps, 
scrolls and connecting lines : 4to 24p — Philadelphia, published 
by Gaskill & Copper, 1847 ; deposited by Gaskill & Copper. 

Patterson (Robert) The Reporter's Assistant ; being an exposition of the 
reporting style of phonography : 12mo 52p — Philadelphia, 
published by E. Webster ; deposited by R. Patterson. 

Paulding (J. K.) The Puritan and his Daughter, two volumes : 8vo vol. 1, 
216p ; vol. 2, 270p ; New York, pul)lished by Baker & Scrib- 
ner, 1849 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

♦The Old Continental; or, the price of liberty, two volumes, 
[first volume only received :] 16mo vol. 1, 191p — New York, 
published by Paine & Burgess, 1846 ; deposited by Paine & 
Burgess. 

And Paulding (William Irving) American Comedies : con- 
tents, the Bucktails, or Americans in England ; the Noble Exile ; 
Ma(hnen all, or the Cure of love ; Antipathies, or the Enthusiasts 
by the ears : 12mo 29op — Philadelphia, published by Carey 
& Hart, 1847 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Peirce (Oliver B.) Natural series of Reading books, second reader : 12mo 
252p — New York, published by Gates, Stedman k Co., 1849 ; 
deposited by O. B. Peirce. 



199 [ 1 ] 

Penn (William) The life of William Penn, the founder of Pennsylvania; 
with numerous illustrative anecdotes and emhellishments : 16mo 
— Philadelphia, puhlished by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849; de- 
posited hy Lindsay & Blakiston. 

Pkoile's Vade Mecum (The) Comprising a collection of valuable receipts 
in the useful and interesting arts, &c., &c.; by a practical che- 
mist : lOmo 4(3p — Bulfalo, published by Jewett, Thomas & 
Co., 1849 ; deposited by George W. Merchant. 

Perkins (George R., A. M.) Perkins' Series; an elementary arithmetic. 
Stereotype edition, revised and improved : 8vo o47p — Hart- 
ford, published by H. H. Hawley & Co., 1849 ; deposited by 
George 11. Perkins. 

Higher Arithmetic, with an appendix, stere- 
otype edition; revised and improved: 12mo 342p — Utica, 
pidilished by H. H. Hawley & Co., 1848; deposited by Geo. 
R. Perkins. 

A Treatise on Algebra, embracing besides 
the elementary principles, all the higher parts usually taught in 
colleges, &c., &c. Second edition ; revised, enlarged and im- 
proved : 8vo 420p — Utica, published by H. H. Hawley & 
Co, 1847 ; deposited Ity George R. Perkins. 

Elements of Geometry, with practical ap- 
plications ; designed for beginners : 12mo o08p — Utica, pub- 
lished by H. H. Hawley & Co., 1847; deposited by George R- 
Perkins. 

Peter Schlcmihl in America, : 8vo 494p — Philadelphia, published by 
Carey & Hart, 1848 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Peters (Richard) A full and arranged Digest of the decisions in com- 
mon law, equity and admiralty of the courts of the United 
States, from the orofanization of the o;overnment in 1789 to 
1847, in the Supreme, Circuit, District and Adinn-alty court ; 
reported in Dallas, Cranch, Wheaton, Peters and Howard's 
Supreme court reports ; in Gallison, Mason, Paine, Peters, 
Washington, Wallace, Sumner, Story, Baldwin, Brocken- 
Itfough, and M'Lean's Circuit court reports, and in Bees, 
Ware, Peters and Gilpin's District and Admiralty reports; with 
an appendix, ke., &c.; two volumes: 8vo large. Vol. J, 819p ; 
Vol. 2, 77()p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart ; de- 
posited by Richard Peters. 

Peter (William, A. M.) Specimens of the jiocts and poetry of Greece ami 
Rome, by various translators : Svo large, o30p — Philadelphia, 
publislie(l by Carey &i Hart, 1>^47; deposited by Carey & 
Hart. 

Peterson (Charles J.) 4'lie military Heroes of the Revolution, with a narra- 
tive of the war of Independence : 8vo large, 487p — Philadel- 
phia, published by William A. Leary, 1848; deposited by 
James L. Gihon. 

The military Heroes of the War of 1812; with a nar- 
rative of the war ; 8vo large, 208p — Philadelphia, published 
by William A. Leary, 1848 ; deposited by James L. Gihon. 



[ 1 ] 200 

Peterson (Charles J.) The military Heroes of the War with Mexico, with 
a narrative of the war : 8vo large, 282p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by William A. Leary, 1848 ; deposited by James L. 
Gihon. 

Phelps (Mrs. Lincoln,) Ida Norman; or, trials and their uses : 12mo 272j) 

— Baltimore, published by Gushing & Brother, 1848 ; deposi- 
ted by Gushing & Brother. 

Pickering (John, LL. D.) A Gomprehensive Lexicon of the Greek Lan- 
guage, adapted to the use of schools and colleges, in the Uni- 
ted States. Third edition, greatly enlarged and improved : 
8vo 14''56p — Boston, published by Wilkins, Garter & Co. ; 
deposited by Wilkins, Garter & Co., and Sarah Pickering, Ex- 
ecutrix. 

Pickering (John) The working man's Political Economy, founded upon the 
principle of immutable justice, and the inalienable rights of 
man; designed for the promotion of national reform : 8vo 206p 

— Cincinnati, published by Thomas Varney, 1847 ; deposited 
by John Pickering. 

PiNNEO (T. S., M. D.,) The Hcman's young ladies Reader, for female schools; 
containing extracts in prose and poetry, selected from the 
writings of more than one hundred and thirty different authors; 
Eclectic series : 8vo 480p — New York, published by Pratt, 
Woodford & Co. ; deposited by Winthrop B. Smith. 

Electic educational series ; primary Grammar of the 
English language for beginners ; IGmo llOp — Cincinnati, 
published by Winthrop B. Smith, 1849 ; deposited by W. B. 
Smith. 

PoNTiAc; or the siege of Detroit; a drama, in three acts: 12mo 60p — Bos- 
ton, published by Samuel Golman, 1835 ; deposited by Samuel 
Colman. 

Porter (William) A quarter race in Kentucky, and other sketches, il- 
lustrative of scenes, characters and incidents, throughout the 
universal Yankee nation ; with illustrations by Darley : 12mo 
203p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847 ; depo- 
sited by Carey & Hart. 

Potter (J. Hamilton, M. D.,) The Consumptive's Guide to health ; or the 
invalid's five questions and the doctor's five answers; being a 
comprehensive and practical treatise on pulmonary consumption, 
&c., &c. : 12mo 78p — Philadelphia, published by the author, 
1849 ; deposited by J. Hamilton Potter, M. D. 

Prescott (William H.) History of the conquest of Peru, with a preliminary 
view of the civilization of the Incas; two volumes : 8vo large, 
■ — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; depo- 
sited by William H. Prescott. 

Primer — The illustrated Primer, or child's first book; embellished with nu- 
merous engravings : 8vo — New York, published by George F. 
Gooledge & Brother, 1847; deposited by George F. Cooledge 
& Brother. 

PuLTE (Dr. J. H.,) Organon der Weltgeschichte : Svo 123p — Cincinnati, 



201 [ 1 J 

1848; printed by C. F. Schmidt, and for sale at New York by 
W. Radde ; deposited by J. H. Pulte. 

PuRDOx (John, Esq.,) and Stroud (George M.) A digest of the Laws of 
Pennsylvania, from the year 1700 to the :l'2i\ (hiy of Ajjril 1846; 
seventh edition ; the first tonr editions by the late John Purdon, 
Esq., the last three, by George M. Strond : 8vo large — Phila- 
delphia, pnblished by Thomas Davis, 1847. 

Supplement to the digest of the laws of Pennsylvania, 
from 22d April JS4(), to 11th" April 184S, with some older 
laws not incliuk'd in the last edition of Pardon's digest ; by F. 
C. Brightly : 8vo — Philadelphia, published l)y J. Kay & Bro- 
ther, 1848^; deposited by F. C. Brightly. 

Putnam (John Phelps) United States digest ; being a digest of decisions of 
the courts of the common law, equity and admiralty, in the 
Uniteil States: vol. 1, annual digest for 1847; vol. 2, annual 
digest for 1848 : 8vo large — Boston, published hy Little &. 
Brown ; vol. 1 in 1848, 498p ; vol. 2 in 1849, 502p'; deposited 
by Little & Brown. 

QuAiN (Jones, M. D.,) Human anatomy; edited by Richard Quain, F. R. S. 
and William Sharpey, M. I)., F. R. S., First American, from 
the fifth London edition, edited by Joseph Leidy, M. D. ; in 
two volumes, with over live hundred illustrations : 8vo vol. 1, 
638p; vol. 2, G39p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blan- 
chard, 1849 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard. 

Rabadan (Don Carlos) Manescas oral system of teaching living languages, 
illustrated by a practical course of lessons in the Spanish lan- 
guage, through the medium of the English ; in one volume : 
8vo 1029p — New York, printed at the Spanish printing of!ice 
No. 88 William street, 1846 ; deposited by Don Carlos Ra- 
badan. 

Randall (Henry S.) Sheep Husbandry in the South ; comprising a treatise 
on the acclimation of sheep in the southern states, an account 
of the different breeds ; also, a complete manual of breeding, 
summer and winter management, and of the treatment of diseases; 
with jiortraits and other illustrations, in series of letters to R. 
F. W. Allston, Esq. : 8vo large, 320p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by J. S. Skinner & Son, 1848 ; deposited by J. S. Skin* 
ner & Son. 

Rawle (William, Jr.) Reports of cases adjuged in the Supreme court of 
Pennsylvania. Volumes one and two. Second edition, revised 
and corrected; 8vo ; vol. l,4S0p; vol. 2, 476p — Philadel- 
phia, published by. Thomas Davis, 1849 ; deposited by Thomas 
Davis. 

Ray (Joseph) Ecleclic educational series — Algebra, part first, on the ana- 
lytic and inductive method of instruction with mnnerous prac- 
tical exercises ; designed for common schools and academies. 
Stereotype edition: 12mo 240p — Ciiu'innali, published by 
Winthrop h. Smith & Co., 1848 ; deposited by Winthrop B. 
Smith. 



[ 1 ] 202 

Ray (Joseph) Arithmetic : part second — A thorough course of mental 
arithmetic, hy induction and analysis. Revised edition : 16mo 
128p — Cincinnati, published by Winthrop B. Smith, 1849 ; de- 
posited by Winthrop B. Smitli. 

Arithmetic, part third — on the inductive and analytic me- 
thods of instruction, embracino; cancellation and factorino-. 
ISew and thoroughly revised edition. Designed for schools and 
academies : 16mo 320p — Cincinnati, published by Winthrop 
B. Smith & Co. ; deposited by W. B. Smith. 
Read (Thomas Buchanan) Lays and ballads : 12mo 140p — Philadelphia, 
published by George S. Appleton, and at New York by ]). Ap- 
pleton & Co., 1849 ; deposited by George S. Appleton. 

The female poets of America; with portraits, bi- 
ographical notices, and specimens of their writings : 8vo large, 
420p~ Philadelphia, published l)y E. H. Butler' & Co., 1849 ; 
deposited by E. H. Butler & Co. 

Reybaud (Madame Charles) The Cadet de Colobrires. A tale of the old 
convents of Paris; translated from the French. Complete in one 
volume. Second edition : 8vo 92p — Philadelphia, published 
by Carey & Hart, 1847 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Rhoads (J., M. D.) The second part of practical arithmetic : 12mo 204p — 
Philadelphia, published by John H. Simon, 1849 ; depositee! by 
J. Rhoads. 

Richardson (William H.) Journal of a private soldier in Colonel Doni- 
phan's command : 8vo 84p — Baltimore, 1847 ; deposited by 
W. H. Richardson. 

Journal of a private soldier in the campaign of Ncav 
and Old Mexico, under the command of Colonel Doniphan. 
Second edition : 12mo 96p — Baltimore, published by J. W. 
Woods, 1848 ; deposited by William H. Richardson. 
RicKLE (S. S.) No. 1, Deutscher Schulbiicher. A. B. C. Buch : 12mo 32p — 
Columbus, ]iublished by W^hitiiig & Huntington, 1848 ; depo- 
sited by Whiting & Huntington. 

Riddle (Joseph Esmond, M. A.,) and Arnold (T. K., M. A.) A copious 
and critical English Latin lexicon, founded on the German 
Latin Dictionary of Dr. Charles Ernest Georges. First American 
' edition, carefully revised, and containing a copious dictionary of 
proper names from the best sources; by Charles Anthon, LL. D. : 
8vo large, 7o-3p — New York, published by Harper & Bro- 
thers, 1849 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Ring (David) Key to three thousand exercises in arithmetic, and appendix ; 
12mo 3Gp — Philadelphia, published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 
1847; deposited by E. C. & J. JJiddle. 

RiNGELBERGius (Joach. Fortius) The celebrated treatise of Joach. Fortius 
Ringelbergius de Ratione Studii : translated from the edition of 
Y'an Erpe, by G. B. Earp, Coll. Corp. Xti. Cant. : with pre- 
face and appendix, by W. H. Ock^nheimer, A. M. : 12mo 103p 
— Philadelphia, published by Carey &. Hart, 1847 ; deposited 
by Carey & Hart. 



203 [ 1 J 

Ripley (R. S.) The war with Mexico, ]n two volumes : 8vo vol.1, •">24p ; 
vol.2, O'50p — New York, published l)y Harper & Brothers, 
1849 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

RiTTER (Thomas, M. D.,) A medical manual and medicine-chest companion 
lor })opular use in tamilies and on sbij) board, lor the treatment 
of the ordinary diseases of the human system. Fourth edition, 
revised and enlarged : 12mo 148p — New Yoik, published by 
S. W. Benedict, 1849 ; deposited by Thomas Ritter. 

RoBB (John L.) Streaks of a Squatter life, and tar west scenes. A series of 
humorous sketches, descriptive of incidents and character in the 
wild west ; to which are added other miscellaneous pieces, by 
Solitaire : 12rao 187p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & 
Hart, 1847 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Roberts (Sanuiel) Digest of select British statutes, comprising those, which, 
according to the report of the Judges of the Supreme Court made 
to the Legislature, appears to be in force in Pennsylvania; with 
some others ; with notes and illustrations; second edition, with 
additional notes and references to English and American deci- 
sions, giving construction to these statutes, down to the present 
time, and also, the report made by the Judges of the Supreme 
Court to the Legislature. By Robert E. Wright, counsellor at 
law : 8vo large, 444p — Philadelphia, published by James Kay 
Jr., & Brother, and at Pittsburgh by C. A. Kay, 1847 ; depo- 
sited by James Kay, Jr. & Brother. 

Robinson (Conway) An account of discoveries in the west until 1519, and 
of voyage\s to and along the Atlantic coast of North America, 
from 1020 to 1073. Prepared for " The Virginia historical and 
philosophical society," and ])ublishe(l by the society : 8vo large 
— Richmond, printed by Shephertl & Colin, 1848 ; deposited 
by William Maxwell. 

Robinson (Horatio N., A. M.) A treatise on astronomy descriptive, ]>hysi- 
cal and practical. Designed for schools, colleges and private 
students: 8vo 347p — Albany, published liy Erastus K. Pease 
& Co., 1849 ; deposited by H. N. Robinson.' 

University edition. A tiieorctical and ]n-actical 
treatise on algebra; in which the excellencies of the demonstra- 
tive methods of the French are com[)ine(l with the more prac- 
tical operations of the English, and concise solutions are pointed 
out and particularly inculcated ; tlesigned for schools, col- 
leges, and private students: 12mo large, 'J28p — Cincinnati, 
published by Jacob Ernst, 1847; dei)osit(d I)y Horatio IS. Ro- 
binson. 

Elements of natural philosophy, with some of 
their results and applications ; designed for schools, academies, 
and private students: 12mo 287p — Cincinnati, published by- 
Jacob Ernst, 1848; deposited by H. N. Robinson. 
Robinson (Rev. Phinehas, A. M.) Jnunortajity ; a poem in ten cantos: 
12mo 411p — New York, published by Leavitt, Trow & Co., 
1846 ; deposited by Phinehas Robinson, A. M. 



[ 1 ] 204 

RoDGERS (M. M., M. D.) Scientific agriculture, or the elements of chemis- 
try, geology, botany and meteorology, applied to practical 
agriculture ; illustrated by numerous engravings and a copious 
glossary : 12mo 279p — Rochester, published by Erastus Dar- 
row, 1848 ; deposited by Erastus Darrow. 

Rosemary (The) A collection of sacred and religious Poetry, from the 
English and American poets ; with elegant illustrations : 8vo 
large, 248p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakistonj 
1849 ; deposited by Lindsay & Llakiston. 

RowTON (Frederic) The female poets of Great Britain, chronologically 
arranged, with copious selections and critical remarks; with ad- 
ditions, by an American editor, and elegantly engraved illustra- 
tions by celebrated artists: 8vo large, 533p — Philadelphia, 
published by Carey & Hart, 1849 ; deposited by Carey &, 
Hart. 

Roy (William L.) A new and original exposition of the book of Revela- 
tions, as well as the prophecies of Daniel, Ezekiel, Joel, &c.: 
with useful and practical observations; together with numerous 
citations from the Jewish Talmuds and Targums, and also 
from Ancient History and authors, illustrating more fully the 
symbolical language of this mysterious book : 8vo 32 4p — New 
York, published by D. Fanshaw, 1848 ; deposited by William 
L. Roy. 

RoYLE (J. Forbes, M. D., F. R. S.) Materia Medica and Therapeutics; in- 
cluding the preparations of the pharmacopoeias of London, 
Edinburgh, Dublin and of the United States; with many new 
medicines. Edited by Joseph Carson, M. D., with ninety-eight 
illustrations: 8vo large, 689p — Philadelphia, published by 
Lea & Blanchard, 1847 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard. 

Ruby (The) A Token of Friendship for 1849, with superb steel engravings, 
from designs by celebrated artists : 8vo 304p — Philadelphia, 
published by Carey & Hart, 1849 ; deposited by Carey & 
Hart. 

Russell (Francis T.) The Juvenile Speaker; comprising elementary rules 
and exercises in declamation, with a selection of pieces for 
practice: 12mo 263p — New York, published by Harper & 
Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Russell (William,) Harper's New York class book ; comprising outlines 
of the geography and history of New York ; biographical 
notices of eminent individuals, sketches of scenery and natu- 
ral history; accounts of public institutions, &c., &c. Ar- 
ranged as a reading book for schools : 12mo 669p — New 
York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by 
Harper & Brothers. 

Introduction to the primary Reader of Russell's ele- 
mentary series; designed to accompany the Spelling book : 12mo 
H2p — Boston, published by Charles Tappan, 1847 ; deposited 
by William Russell. 

Sabine (Lorenzo) The American Loyalists ; or, biographical sketches of 
adherents to the British crown in the war of the revolution, 



205 [ 1 ] 

alphabetically arranged ; with a preliminary historical essay : 
Svo 7oop — Boston, publishcti l)y little & Brown, 1847 ; de- 
posited by Little & Brown. 
Salsbury (J. JJ.) Prize Essay. History and chemical investigation of maize 
or Indian corn : 8vo 201 p — Albany, published by C. Van Ben- 
thuysen, 1849; dej)Osite(l by J. H. Salsbiuy. 

Salkeld (Joseph) Classical Antiquities, or a compendium of Roman and Gre- 
cian antiquities ; with a sketch of ancient mythology : 16mo 
316p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; 
deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

A First book in Spanish; or, a practical introduction to 
the study of the Spanish language, &c. ; Reading lessons and 
a vocabulary, &c. ; 12mo 396p — New^ York, published by 
Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Sandford (Hon. Lewis H.) Report of cases argued and determined in the 
court of chancery of the state of New York, before the Hon. 
Lewis H. Sandford, vice-chancellor of the first circuit, [the 
second volume while assistant vice-chancellor] : Svo large, 
vol. 2, 716p ; vol. 3, 715p — New York, published by Banks, 
Gould & Co. ; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co. 

Reports of cases argued and determined in the 
Superior courtl of the city of New Fork : 8vo large, 7y6p — 
New York, published by Banks, Gould & Co., 1849 ; deposited 
by Banks, Gould & Co. 

Sands (George W.) Mazelli, and other poems ; 12mo 156p — Philadelphia, 
published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849 ; deposited by George 
VV. Sands. 

Sanger (George P.) A table of the cases contained in the three volumes of 
the United States Digest, and in the two volumes of the supple- 
ment; alphabetically arranged, with a reference for each case to 
the volume and page of the report whence the case is taken, 
and to the volume and page of the Digest wdiere it is founil : 
Svo 787p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1849 ; de- 
posited by Little & Brown. 

Sargent (F. W., M. D.,) On bandaging and other operations of minor 
Surgery: 8vo 379p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blan- 
chard, 1848 : deposited by Lea & Blanchard. 

Sartaix (.J.) The American gallery of Art, from the works of the best 
artists, with poetical and prose illustrations, by distinguished 
American authors : 4to llOp — Philadelphia, ])ublished by 
Lindsay & Blakiston, 1848 ; deposited by Lindsay & Bla- 
kiston. 

Scenes at Washington. A story of the last generation; by a citizen of Bal- 
timore : 12mo 197p — New York, pul)iished by Harper & 
Brothers, 1848 ; deposited by Harper &, Brothers. 

Schmidt (Peter Von) The young Assayer's and Miner's assistant, compiled 
from the best authors on chemistry and geology ; 16mo o8p — 
New York, published by G. W. Palmer, 1849 ; deposited by 
Peter Von Schmidt. . . 



[1] 



206 



ScHMUcKER (S. M., A. M.,) The errors of modern Infidelity illustrated and 
refuted: 12nio 480p — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, El- 
liot & Co., 1848 ; deposited by S. M. Schmucker. 

Schwartz (Theodor) Handbuch fiir den Freimaurer, oder der Hieroglyphen 
Deuter. Enthaltend treue Erkliirungen der Symbole des Lehr- 
lings-Gesellen und Meister-Grades : 12mo 141p — Louisville, 
printed by ScheefFer und Doen, 1849 ; deposited by Theodor 
Schwartz. 

ScRiBNER (B. F.) Camp life of a Volunteer. A campaign in Mexico, or 
a glimpse at life in camp, by " One who has seen the Elephant :'' 
8vo 7op — Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 
1847 ; deposited by Grigg, Elliot & Co. 

Seaman (Ezra C.) Essays on the progress of Nations, in productive industry, 
civilization, population and wealth ; illustrated by statistics of 
mining, agriculture, manufiictures, commerce, banking revenues, 
internal improvements, emigration, mortality and population : 
8vo large, 455p — Detroit, published by M. Geiger & Co., 
1846 ; deposited by E. C. Seaman. 

Supplement to essays on the progress of Nations, No. 2 : 
Svo 87p — New York, 1848. 

Sergeant (Thomas) and Rawle (William, Jr.,) Reports of cases adjudged 
in the Supreme court of Pennsylvania. Ssecond edition, revised 
and corrected : 8vo large, [volumes lo, 14, 15, 16 and 17 only 
received]: vol. 13, 478p ; vol. 14, 476p ; vol. 1-5, 498p ; vol. 
16, 476p ; vol. 17, 474p — Philadelphia, published by Thomas 
Davis ; deposited by Thomas Davis. 

Shakspeare (William) A supplement to the plays of William Shakspearc: 
comprising seven dramas, which have been ascribed to his pen, 
but which are not included with his writings in modern editions, 
viz : the two Noble Kinsmen ; the London Prodigal ; Thomas 
Lord Cromwell ; Sir John Oldcastle ; the Puritan, or, the 
Widow of Watling ; the Yorkshire tragedy of Locrine. Edited 
with notes, and an introduction by William Gilmore Simms, 
Esq. First American edition: Svo large, 178p — New York, 
published by George T. Cooledge & Brother, 1848 ; deposited 
by George T. Cooledge & Brother. 

Sharswood (George) The public and general statutes passed by the Con- 
gress of the United States of America, from 1837 to 1847, in- 
clusive, whether expired, repealed or in force; arranged in 
chronological order, with marginal references; being a continua? 
lion of the laws published under the inspection of Joseph Story, 
one of the Justices of the Supreme court of the United States. 
Being volume 5 : 8vo large, pages 2637 to 3280 — Philadel- 
phia, published by T. & J. W. Johnson, 1848 ; deposited by 
T. & J. W Johnson. 

Shattuck (W. B.) The Columbian drawing cards, Nos. 1, 2, and 3 — Cin- 
cinnati, published by Bradley & Anthony, 1848 ; deposited by 
W. B. Shattuck. 

The Columbian drawing book; designed for schools and 
private instruction. In six numbers : No. 1, 4to 2op — Cincin- 



207 [ 1 ] 

nati, published by Bradley & Anthony, 1848 ; deposited by W. 
B. Shattuck. 

Same No. 1, second and improved edition : same jnib- 
lishers, 1849; deposited by W. B. Shattuck. 

Same No. 2, same publishers, 1849 ; deposited bv W. 
B. Shattuck. 

Shipp (Barnard) Fame; and other poems: 13mo 21"2p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by E. 11. Butler & Co., 1^48; deposited by B. Shipp. 

SiiORTi'iELD (Luke) The Western merchant. A narrative, containing; iiseftil 
instruction for the western man of business who makes his pur- 
chases in the east — also, iidormation for the eastern men whose 
customers are in the west, &c. : 12mo 268]) — Philadelphia, 
pul)lished by Grigg, Elliot &. Co, 1849; deposited by Grio-o- 
Elliot & Co. 

Wild western scenes, a narrative of adventures in the 
western wilderness, &c., beautifully illustrated: I'imo 27()p — 
Philaileljihiii, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1849; depo- 
sited by Giigg, Elliot & Co. 

Sidney (J. C.) ]\Iap of the circuit of ten miles arountl the city of Philadel- 
phia, with the names of roads, villages, mills, property owners, 
taverns, &c. From original surveys, by J. C. Sidney, civil en- 
gineer ; Delaware county by Dr. Ash — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by Robert P. Smith, 1847. 

SiGOURNEY (Mrs. L. H.)Myrtis, with other etchings and sketchings; 12mo 
292p — New York, published by Harper &, Brothers, 1846 ; 
deposited by Harper &. Brothers. 

Illustrated poems; with designs by Felix O. C. 
Darley; engraved by American artists : 8vo large, 4U8p — Phi- 
ladelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1849 . deposited by 
Carey & Hart. 

SiLLiiMAN (Benjamin, Jr., M. A.) Frst principles of chemistry, for the use 
of colleges and schools; with more than two hundred illustra- 
tions : 8vo 492p — Philadelphia, published by Loomis & Peck, 
1847 ; deposited by Loomis & Peck. 

SiMMS (W. Gilmore) The life of Captain John Smith, the founder of Vir- 
ginia : J2mo o79p — New York, published by G. F Cooledge 
& Brother, 1846 ; deposited by W. Gilmore Simms. 

The life of the Chevalier Bayard : 12mo 401p — New 
York, published by Harper &, Brothers, 1847 ; deposited by 
Haiper & Brothers. 

Smedes (W. C.) A Digest of the cases decided and reported in the high 
court of errors and appeals, and the Superior court of chancery 
of the state of Mississippi, from 1818 to 1847 : 8vo large, 441 p 
— lioston, published by Little & Brown, 1847 ; deposited by 
Little & Brown. 

Smedes (W. C.) and Marshall (T. A.) Report of cases argued and deter- 
mined in the high court of errors and appeals for the state of 
Mississippi, vol 12. Containing all the cases for January term, 



[1] 



208 



1849 ; 8vo large, 49Gp — Boston, piiblishecl by Little & 
Brown, 1849 ; deposited l)y W. C, Smcdes and T. A. Marshall. 
Smedes (W. C.) and Marshall (T. A.) Reports of cases argued and de- 
termined in the high court of errors and appeals for the state of 
Mississippi; vols. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12; vol. 7, containing cases 
for November and January terras 1846; vol. 8, containing cases 
for January term 1847, vol. 9, containing cases for January 
terms 1847, and 1848 ; vol. 10, containing cases for January 
term 1848; vol. 11, containing all the cases for November 
terra 1848; and vol. 12, containing all the cases for January 
term 1849 : 8vo large, vol. 7, 918p ; vol. 8, 870p ; vol. 9, 
704p ; vol. 10, 708p ; vol. 11, 684p ; vol. 12, 796p— Boston, 
published by Little & Brown, vols. 7 and 8, in 1847, vols. 9 
and 10, in 1848 and vol. 11, in 1849 : deposited by W. C. 
Smedes and T. A. Marshall. 

Smith (Augustus W., LL. D.,) An eleraentary treatise on Mechanics ; em- 
bracing the theory of statics and dynamics and its application 
to solids and fluids; prepared for the under graduate course in 
the Wesleyan University : 8vo 307p — New York, published by 
Harper & Brothers, 1849 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Smith (Fitch E.) Commentaries on statute and constitutional Law and 
statutory and constitutional construction; containing an exami- 
nation of adjudged cases on constitutional law, under the con- 
stitution of the United States, and the constitutions of the re- 
spective states, concerning legislative power ; and also the con- 
sideration of the rules of law in the construction of statutes and 
constitutional provisions : 8vo large, 976p — Albany, pub- 
lished by Gould, Banks & Gould, 1848 : deposited by Gould, 
Banks & Gould. 

Smith (Henry) The musical primer and juvenile Instructor; embracing the 
round note and numeral systems of notation. In two parts — 
part one, revised and improved : 16mo 36p — Chambersburg, 
published by the proprietor ; deposited by the proprietor. Three 
copies. 

Smith (J. Calvin) The illustrated Hand book; a new guide for travelers 
through the United States of America; embellished with one 
hundred and twenty-five highly finished engravings ; accompa- 
nied by a large and accurate raajD : 12rao 223p — New York, 
published by Sherraan & Smith, 1846 ; deposited by Sherman 
& Smith. 

Smith (Hon. John Cotton, LL. D.) The Correspondence and Miscellanies 
of Hon. John Cotton Sraith, LL. D., with an eulogy pro- 
nounced before the Connecticut historical society at New Haven 
May 27, 1846 ; by Rev. Wilham W. Andrews : 12rao 828p— 
New York, pubhshed by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited 
by Harper & Brothers. 

Smith (Oakes E.) The Salamander, found amongst the papers of the late 
Ernest Helfenstein, second edition : 12rao 149p — New York, 
jiuhlished by George P. Putnam, 1849 ; deposited by George 
P. Putnam. 



209 [ 1 ] 

Smith (Oliver, A. M.,) Outlines of Nalure ; 12mo 198p — New York, 
1847 ; deposited by Oliver Smith. 

Smith (R. JNI.) The Child's first book in Geography; illustrated by eighteen 
)na})s, and upwards of one hun(h-ed beautiful engravings : 18mo 
IGOp — Phihuk^lphia, published by Grigg, Elhot & Co., 1849 ; 
deposited by Grigg, Elliot & Co. 

Modern Geography, for the use of schools, academies, &c., 
on a new plan; illustrated with maps and numerous engravings : 
4to80p— Philadelphia, published by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1S48 ; 
deposited by Grigg, Elliot & Co. 

Snethen (Nicholas,) Sermons of the late Nicholas Snethen, minister of the 
Gospel in the Methodist Protestant Church, written by himself 
in the 69th year of his age ; edited by Worthington Garrettson 
Snethen. Frst edition : 12mo 480p — Washington, published 
by Ulysses Ward, 1846 ; deposited by Ulysses Ward. 

Snethen (W". G.j The Black Code of the District of Columbia : 8vo 61p 
— New York, 1848. 

Snow Flake : a Holiday Gift for 1849 : 12mo 329p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by E. H. Butler & Co., 1849; deposited by E. H. But- 
ler & Co. 

A Holiday Gift for 1850 : 12mo 330p — Philadelphia, pub. 
lished by E. H. Butler & Co., 1850 ; deposited by E. H. But- 
ler & Co. 

Solley (Prof. E.) Syllabus of a complete course of lectures on Chemistry, 
including its application to the arts, agriculture and mining. 
Revised, with achlitions, by the author of " Chemical and Phar- 
maceutical Manipulations" &c. : 8vo 198p — London, pub- 
lished by Longman, Brown, Green & Longmans, and at Phila- 
delphia, "by Carey &, Hart ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

SouTHEY (Robert, Esq., LL. D.) The Life of John Wesley, and rise and 
progress of Methodism ; with notes by the late Samuel Taylor 
Coleridge, Esq., and remarks on the life and character of John 
Wesley, by the late Alexander Knox, Esq. Edited by Rev. 
Charles Cuthbert Southey, A. M. Second American edition, 
with notes &c. ])y Rev. Daniel Curry, A. M. 2 volumes: 12mo 
large, vol. 1, 476p ; vol. 2, 454p — New York, published, 
1849 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

SouTiiwoRTH (Emma D. E. Nevitt) Retribution ; or the vale of shadows. 
A tale of passion : 8vo 108p — New York, published by 
Harper & Brothers, 1849 ; deposited by Harper & ]5iothers. 

Sparks (Jared) The Library of American Biography, conducted by J;^;cd 
Sparks. Second series. Volumes 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 ; volume 11 
containing the life of Stephen Decatur, by Lieutenant Seidell 
Mackenzie ; volume 12 containing the lives of Edward ]"-eble, 
by Lorenzo Sabine, and William Pemi, by George E. illlis ; 
volume 13 containing the lives of Daniel Boone, John M. Peak 
and Benjamin Lincoln, by Francis Bowen ; volume 14 con: lin- 
ing the life of John Ledyard, by Jared Sparks ; voluni; '5, 
containing the lives of William Ilichardson Davie, by Foru ce 
M. Hubbard, and Samuel Kirkland, bv oamuel K. LclK-n: 
Mis.— 14. 



[ 1 ] 210 

16rao vol. 11, 443p ; vol. 12, 408p ; vol. 13, 434p ; vol. 14, 
419p ; vol. 15, 46lp — Boston, published by Little & Brown ; 
deposited by Little & Brown. 

Spencer (George, A. M.) Latin Lessons, with exercises in parsing; intro- 
ductory to Bullion's Latin Grammar and Latin Reader. Second 
edition, 12mo 196p — New York, published by Pratt, Wood- 
ford & Co., 1845 ; deposited by George Spencer. 
^Spencer (Rev. J. A., A. M.) Greek Reading Book for the use of schools; 
containing the substance of the practical introduction to Greek 
construing, and a treatise on the Greek particles, by Thomas 
Kerchever Arnold, M. A., and also a copious selection from 
Greek authors, with English notes critical and explanatory, and 
a lexicon : 12mo 618p — New York, published by D. Apple-? 
ton & Co., 1848 ; deposited by D. Appleton & Co. 

The four Gospels and Acts of the Apostles^ 
in Greek; with English notes, critical, philological and exegeti- 
cal, maps, indices, &c.; together with the epistles and apoca- 
lypse. The whole forming the complete text of the NewTesta>* 
ment, by the Rev. J. A. Spencer, A. M. : 12mo large, 611p~- 
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited' 
by Harper & Brothers. 

Spring (Gardener, D. D.) The Betliel Flag; a series of short discourses to 
seamen : 12mo 309p — New York, published by Baker & 
Scribner, 1848 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

The Power of the Pulpit; or thoughts addressed 
to Christian ministers and those who hear them : 12mo 459p — 
New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; deposited 
by Baker & Scribner. 

Stanton (Benjamin F.) Sermons of the late Rev. Benjamin F. Stanton t 
12mo 311p — New York, published by D. Fanshaw, 1848; 
deposited by Charlotte F. Stanton. 

Stanton (Henry B.) Sketches of Reforms and Reformers of Great Britain 
and Ireland : 12mo 393p — New York, published by John 
Wiley, 1849 ; deposited by H. B. Stanton. 

Stephens (Mrs. Ann S.) The Ladies National Magazine, volume 13 : 8vo 
large, 21'5p — Philadelphia, published by Charles J. Peterson, 
1848 ; deposited by Mrs. Ann S. Stephens. 

Stevens (Enos,) Rudiments of Astromy, &c.; with directions for using the 
diagram of the solar system so as to represent the relative por- 
tions of all the heavenly bodies every day : 16mo 36p — Boston, 
published by James French, 1849 ; deposited by Enos Stevens. 

Steavart (W.) New York Pictorial, and Mother's Spelling and Reading 
Book; or child's first step to knowledge : 16mo 72p — Hagers- 
town, published by W. Stewart, 1849 ; deposited by W. 
Stewart. 

Stille (Alfred, M. D.) Elements of General Pathology; a practical treatise 
on the causes, forms, symptoms and results of disease : 8vo 
483p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1848; 
deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston. 



211 [ 1 ] 

Storrs (Richard S., Jr.) Congregationalism: its principles and influences: a 
discourse delivered before the general associations of New Fork, 
at their meeting in Madison, August 1848; by the Rev. Richard 
S. Storrs, Jr., published by request of the association : 8vo 72p 
— New York. Published by Baker & Scribner, 1848; deposited 
by Baker & Scribner. 

Story (William W.) A Treatise on the Law of sales of Personal Property, 
with illustrations from the foreign law : 8vo large, 488p — 
Boston, published by Little & Brown ; deposited by William 
W. Story. 

A Treatise on the Law of Contracts not under Seal. 
Second edition, revised and greatly enlarged : 8vo large, 900}) 
— Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1847 ; deposited by 
WllHam W. Story. 

Reports of Cases argued and determined in the Cii'- 
cuit court of the United States for the first Circuit. Volume 3 : 
8vo large, 849p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 1847; 
deposited by William W. Story. 

Street (Alfred B.) Frontenac; or the Atotarho of the Iroquois. A metrical 
romance : 12mo o24p — New York, published by Baker &- 
Scribner, 1849 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

Street (Robert) The Faith and Doctrines of the Church of the Eternal 
Son; intended as a church book for the church of the Eternal 
Son generally, &c. Divided into four parts. To which is added a 
number of select hymns, &c. : 12mo 408p — Philadelphia, 
1849 ; deposited by Robert Street. 

Strickland (W. P.) History of the American Bible Society from its or- 
ganization to the present time; with an introduction by Rev. N. 
L. Rice, D. D. Embellished with a likeness of Hon. Elias Bou- 
dinot, LL. D. : 8vo 466p — New York, published by Harper 
& Brothers, 1849 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Sumner (Charles,) Reports of Cases argued and determined in the Circuit 
court of the United States, for the first Circuit. Second edition. 
Volume 1 : 8vo large, 612p — Boston, published by Little &. 
Brown, 1848 ; deposited by Little & Brown. 

Suppressed Facts; being nobility unveiled : by a naturalized citizen of the 
United States : 8vo 38p — New York, 1843. 

Swan (William D.) The Instructive Reader; or a course of reading in nat- 
ural history, science Jind literature, designed for the use ot 
schools : 12mo 288p — Philadelphia, pul)lished by Thomas, 
Cowperthwait & Co., 1848 ; deposited by William D. Swan. 

The Grammar School Reader, consisting of selections in 
prose and poetry; with exercises in articulation : 12mo 248p — 
Phila(leli)lrhi, jiublislied by Thomas, Cowperthwait &. Co., 1848; 
deposited l)y William D. Swan. 

Tacitus — The Germania and Agricola of Tacitus, with English notes, 
critical and explanatory, from the best and latest authorities, 
the remarks of B'itticher on the style of Tacitus and a copious 
geograpical index ; by Charles Anthon, LL. D. : 8vo 2o2p — ^^ 



[ 1 ] 212 

New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; deposited 
by Harper & Brothers. 

Talbott (John L.) New Arithmetic, The Scholar's Guide to the Science of 
Numbers ; containing the Prussian canceling system, and other 
important abbreviations, adapted to the use of common schools, 
academies and private students : 8vo 212p — Cincinnati, pub- 
lished by J. A. & U. P. James, 1848 ; deposited by John L. 
Talbott. 

Tate (Benjamin) The American Form Book ; containing legally approved 
precedents for agreements, arbitrations, assignments, bonds, 
bills of exchange, promissory notes, conveyancing, letters of 
attorney, receipts, partnerships, releases, transfers, wills, deeds 
in trust and other matters of importance; with a complete index 
to the whole. A new and revised edition : 8vo 261p — Rich- 
mond, Va., published by Drinker & Morris, 1847 ; deposited 
by Drinker & Morris. 

An Analytical digested index of the reported cases of 
the court of Appeals and general court of Virginia; from Wash- 
ington to second Grattan inclusive ; with a repertorium doubly 
and systematically arranged. In two volumes : 8vo large, Vol. 
1, o78p — Vol. 2, 602p— Richmond, Va., published by Drinker 
& Morris, 1847 ; deposited by Drinker & Morris. 
Taylor (Gen. Zachary) Taylor and his companions ; A biography of Gen. 
Zachary Taylor, with a full account of his military services. 
With twenty-seven portraits and engravings : 16mo 128p — 
Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1848 ; depo- 
sited by E. H. Butler & Co. 

Taylor (W. C, LL. D.) Pictorial History of France and Normandy, from 
the earliest period to the present time ; with a full account of 
the revolution and the several rebellions of 1848. By W. C. 
Taylor, LL. D, Illustrated with engravings, by the best artists ; 
8vo 512p — Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait 
& Co., 1848 ; deposited by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co. 

Pinnock's school series. History of France and 
Normandy, from the earliest times to the revolution of 1848. 
With questions for examination, at the end of each section. Illus- 
trated with numerous engravings. First American from 
the third English edition : 8vo 444p — Philadelphia, published 
by Thomas, Cow^perthwait & Co. ; deposied by Thomas, Cow- 
perthwait and Co. 

Taylor (Bayard) Rhymes of Travel, ballads and poems. Second edition, 
12mo lo2p — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 
1849 ; deposited by George P. Putnam. 

Taylor (Alfred S., F. R. S.) On Poisons in relation to medical jurispru- 
dence and medicine ; edited with notes and additions, by R. 
Egglesfeld Griffith, M. D. &c. : 8vo r)87p — Philadtphia, 
published by Lea & Blanchard, 1848 ; deposited by Lea & 
Blanchard. 

Thiers (M. A.) The history of the Consulate and Empire, under Napoleon, 
by M. A. Thiers; translated from the French by D. F. Campbell, 



213 [ 1 ] 

with notes and additions by Henry W. Herbert, [part 6 only 
received]: Svo l'>5p — Philadelphia, published by Carey &, 
Hart, 1847 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 
Thomas (Robert B.) No. 6S. The (old) Farmers' Almanac, calculated on 
a new and improved plan for the year of our Lord 1850, &c. : 
12mo 48p — Boston, pui)lished by Jenks, Palmer & Co., 1849 ; 
deposited by Jenks, Palmer & Co. 

Maine edition, Nos. 67 and 58, for 1849 and 1850 ; 
Portland, published by Sanborn & Carter. 

Thompson (D. P.) May Martin; or, the Money Diggers, a Green mountain 
tale : 12mo 156p — IJurlington, published by Chauncey Good- 
rich, 1848; deposited by Chauncey Goodrich. 

Thomson (John Lewis) History of the second War between the United 
States and Great Britain, declared in 1812, and terminated in 
1815; to which are added, sketches of the military operations of 
the United States to the present time, including the Black- Hawk 
war, the Seminole wars in Florida, and the war with Mexico: 
Svo large, 656p — Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thomp- 
son, 1848 ; deposited by Hogan & Thompson. 

Thornton (J. Quinn) Oregon and Caliibrnia in 1848 ; with an appendix, 
including recent and authentic information on the subject of the 
gold mines of California, and other valuable matter of interest 
to^the emigrant, &c. ; with illustrations and a map. Two vol- 
umes: 8vo^Vol. 1, 393p; Vol. 2, 379p — New York, published 
by Harper & Brothers, 1849 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Thorpe, (T. B.) Our Army at Monterey; being a correct account of the 
proceedings and events which occurred to the " army of occu- 
pation," under the command of Major General Taylor, from 
the time of leaving Matamoros to the surrender of Monterey ; 
with a description of the three days battle and tlie storming of 
Monterey, the ceremonies attending the surrender; together with 
the particulars of the capitulation; illustrated by a view of the 
city, and a map drawn by Lieutenant Benjamin, United States 
Array: 12mo 204p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & 
Hart, 1849 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Our Army on the Rio Grande ; being a short account of 
the important events transpiring from the time of the removal 
of the "army of occupation" from Corpus Christi, to the sur- 
render of Matamoros ; with descriptions of the battles of Palo 
Alto and Resaca de la Palma, the bombardment of Fort Brc^wn 
and the ceremonies of the surrender of Matamoros, with des- 
criptions of the city, &c., &c.; illustrated with twenty-six [en- 
gravings : Khno 19(ip — Philadeljdiia, published by Carey & 
Hart, 184G ; deposited by Carey & llarl. 

Thrall (Walter,) A treatise upon the laws relating to the titles to lands 
which have l)een sold for the non-payment of taxes; i»v Walter 
Thrall: pamphlet, 8vo I20p — Columbus, Ohio, VVi'lliam B. 
Thrall, printer, 1847 ; deposited by Walter Thrall. 

Thomas Thumb (or Charles S. Stratton,) Life and Travels of Thomas 
Thumb, in the United States, England, France and Belgium ; 



[ 1 ] 214 

with illustrations of him in his different costumes : 16mo 144p 

— Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849 ; de- 
posited by Lindsay & Blakiston. 

TiCKNOR (Almon) The Columbian Calculator ; being a practical and concise 
system of decimal Arithmetic. Third edition, revised and cor- 
rected : 12mo 264p — Pottsville, published by Benjamin Ban- 
nan, 1848 ; deposited by Almon Ticknor. 

The Youth's Columbian Calculator ; stereotype edition : 
12mo 96p — Pottsville, published by Benjamin Bannan, 1848 : 
deposited by Almon Ticknor. 

Columbian Spelling Book : 8vo 143p — Pottsville, pub- 
lished by Benjamin Bannan, 1849 ; deposited by Benjamin 
Bannan. 
Trastom— Caloric ; Origin, matter, and law of the Universe ; by Trastom : 
8vo 6op — New Orleans, printed by T. Rea, 1847 ; deposited 
by P. E. Trastom. 

Truman (D.) Bible essay, or Six Reasons why Infidels should be Chris- 
tians ; with an introductory address : 16mo 122p — Mount Plea- 
sant, Ohio, published by Enoch Harris, 1847 ; deposited by 
D. Truman. 

Tucker (T. T.) A new treatise on the theory and practice of book-keeping 
by single and double entry : 8vo 47p — Baltimore, published 
by Sherwood & Co., 1849 ; deposited by T. T. Tucker. 

Tuckerman (Henry T.) Characteristics of Literature, illustrated by the 
genius of distinguished men : 12mo 269p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849 ; deposited by Lindsay & 
Blakiston. 

TuRNBULL(Rev. Robert) The genius of Italy ; being sketches of Italian life, 
literature and religion : 12nio 333p — New York, published by 
George P. Putnam ; deposited by R. Turnbull. 

TuTHiLL (Mrs. L. C.) The Nursery book, for young mothers: 16mo 205p 

— New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1849 ; depo- 
sited by George P. Putnam. 

Tyler (Samuel) Robert Burns, as a poet, and as a man: 12mo 209p — 
New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; deposited 
by Baker & Scribner. 

Upham (Thomas C.) Life and Religious opinions and experience of Madame 
De la Mothe Guyon : together with some account of the per- 
sonal history and religious opinions of Fenelon, Archbishop of 
Cambray. In two volumes : 12mo Vol. 1, 431p ; Vol. 2, 380p 

— New' York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; depos- 
ited by Thomas C. Upham. 

Urcullu (D. Jose de) Gramatica Inglesa, reducida a, veinte y dos lecci- 
ones. Edicion primesa Americana de la septima de Paris ; au- 
mentada y revista por Fayette Robinson : 12mo 262p — Phila- 
delphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 1848 ; 
deposited by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co. 

A Grammar of the Spanish Language based upon the 
system of D. Jose de Urcullu; also with reference to the publi- 



215 [ 1 ] 

tations of the Academy of Spain, the works of Fernandez and 
Jose, and the compendium of Don Augustin Monoz Alvarez, 
of the College of Seville ; according to the seventh Paris edi- 
tion of Urcullu's works ; by Fayette Robinson : 8vo 286p — 
Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait& Co., 1848; 
deposited by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co, 

Valentine (Dr. W.) A Budget of wit and humour; or, morsels of mirth for 
the melancholy ; a certain cure for the blues, and all other- 
serious complaints ; comprising comic lectures on heads, faces, 
noses, mouths, animal magnetism, &c. Illustrated by twelve 
portraits of Dr. Valentine in his most celebrated characters; 
12mo 192p — Philadelphia, published by C. Marshall, 1849; 
deposited by C. Marshall. 

Valazquez (M.) and Simonne (T.) Ollendorff's new method of learning 
to read, write and speak the Spanish language ; with an appen- 
dix, containing a brief but comprehensive recapitulation of the 
rules, as well as of all the verbs, both regular and irregular; 
so as to render their use easy and familiar to the most ordinary 
capacity. Together with practical rules for the Spanish prtv- 
mmciation and models of social and commercial correspondence. 
The whole designed for young learners, &c., by M. Valazquez 
and T. Simonne : 8vo 5o8p — New York, published by D. 
Appleton & Co., 1848 ; deposited by D. Appleton & Co. 

A key to the exercises in Ollendorff's 
new method of learning to read, write and speak the Spanish 
language ; arranged on a new plan, and particularly intended 
for the use of persons who wish to be their own teachers : 8v(> 
174p — New York, published by D. Appleton & Co., 1848; 
deposited by D. Appleton & Co. 

Velpeau (Alf. A. L. M.) New Elements of Operative Surgery ; carefully 
revised, entirely remodelled, and augmented with a treatise on 
minor surgery; illustrated by over two hundred engravings, in- 
corporated with the text; accompanied with an atlas in quarto, 
of twenty-two plates, representing the principal operative pro- 
cesses, surgical instruments, &c. First American, from the last 
Paris, edition. Translated by P. S. Townsend, M. D., aug- 
mented by the addition of several hundred pages of entirely 
new matter, comprising all the latest improvements and disco- 
veries in surgery, in America and Europe, up to the present 
time; under the supervision of, and with notes and observations 
by Valentine Mott, M. 1)., in three volumes, with atlas in 4to : 
8Vo vol l,8olp ; vol. 2, 992p ; vol. :i, JlG;3p — New York, 
published by Samuel S. & William Wood, 1847 ; deposited by 
Samuel S. & William Wood. 

Vethake (Henry, LL. D.) Encyclopffitlia Americana, sujjplementary vol- 
ume, a popular dictionary of arts, sicence, literature, liistory, 
politics and biography, being Vol. 14 : 8vo GGop — Philadel- 
phia, pul)lisiie(l by Lea &, Blanchard ; deposited by Lea &. 
Blanchard. 

Virgil, The Eclogues and Georgics of Virgil, wilh English notes, critical 
and explanatory, and a metrical index, by Chaf-les Anthon, 



[ 1 ] 216 

LL. D. : 8vo 452p — New York, published by Harper & Bro- 
thers, 1846 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 
Visit to the Menagerie by a Father and his Chihhen: 16mo 160p — Phila- 
delphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston,1849 ; deposited by 
Lindsay & Blakiston. 

VoGDEs (William) An Elementary Treatise on Mensuration and Practical 
Geometry ; together with numerous problems of practical im- 
portance in mechanics : 12mo 299p — Philadelphia, published 
by E. C. & J. Biddle, 1846 ; deposited by E. C. & J. Biddle. 

Key to an Elementary Treatise on Mensuration : 12mo 
112p — Philadelphia, published by E. C. &. J. Biddle, 1847 i, 
deposited liy William Vogdes. 
Wallis (S. T.) Glimpses of Spain; or, notes of an unfinished tour in 1847 : 
12mo 384p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 
1849 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

War (The) and its Warriors ; containing a complete history of all the ope- 
rations of the American armies in Mexico ; with biographical 
sketches and anecdotes of the most distincyuished officers in the 
regular army and the volunteer force : 12mo 319p — Philadel" 
phia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1848 ; deposited by 
Hogan & Thompson. 

Warren (John C.,M. D.) Etherization, with surgical remarks: 12mo lOOj) 
— Boston, published by William D. Ticknor & Co., 1848 ; de* 
posited by William D. Ticknor & Co. 

Washington (George) Letters on Agriculture from his Excellency George 
Washington, President of the United States, to Arthur Young, 
Esq., F. R. S., and Sir John Sinclair, Bart, M. P.; with statis- 
tical tables and remarks by Thomas Jefferson, Richard Peters 
and other gentlemen, on the economy and management of farms 
in the United States ; edited by Franklin Knight : 4to 198p — 
Washington, published by the editor, 1847 ; deposited by Fran- 
klin Knight. 

Washington and the Generals of the American 
Revolution ; complete in two volumes ; with sixteen portraits 
on steel, from original pictures: 8vo, Vol. 1, 324p ; Vol. 2, 
836p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1847 ; de- 
posited by Carey & Hart. 

Waterman (Thomas W.) A Treatise on the civil jurisdiction of Justices 
of the Peace : to which are added ; outlines of the powei-s and 
duties of county and town officers in the State of New York ; 
adapted to the statutes and the code of procedure, containing 
directions and practical forms for every civil case which can 
arise under the statutes and the code : 8vo large, 692p — New 
York, publislied by Banks, Gould & Co., 1849 ; deposited by 
Banks, Gould & Banks. 

Waters (George Van) The Poetical Geography, designed to accompany 
outline maps or school atlases; to which are added, the rules of 
arithmetic in rhyme : 8vo large, 72p — Cincinnati, published 
by George Van Waters, 1849 ; deposited by George Van 
Waters. 



217 



[ 1] 



Watts (Frederick) and Sergeant (Henry J.) Reports of Cases adjudged 
in the Supreme courts of Pennsylvania, volume 9 ; containing 
the cases decided in part of May term 1S4'5 ; with a general 
index of the principal matters contained in the nine volumes of 
Watts &. Sergeant's Reports, and a ta!)le of all the cases in the 
same: 8vo large, oO-lp — Philadelphia, published hy James 
Kay, Jr. & Brother, 1840 ; deposited by James Kay, Jr. &, 
Brother. 

Watts (Isaac, D. D.,) Improvement of the Mind ; school edition. With 
Denman's Questions, IGmo 31p — New York, published by A. 
S. Barnes & Co., 1849; deposited by A. S. Barnes. 

Weaver (Dr. J.) A System of practical Elocution and rhetorical ges* 
ture, comprising all the elements of vocal delivery, both as a 
sicence and as an art ; so arranged and exemplified as to make 
it easy of acquisition for private learners without a teacher, as 
well as for the use of common schools, academies, seminaries, 
&c. Illustrated by one hun(h-ed and twenty-five engravings and 
figures, as well as by numerous tables and examples: 8vo 371p 
— Philadelphia, Barrett & Jones, 1846; deposited by Dr. J* 
Weaver. 

Webb (J. R.) First Reader. John's First Book; being a new method of 
teaching children to read, founded on natui-e and reason; third 
stereotype edition, revised : 12mo 72p — New York, published 
by Baker & Scribner, 1848 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

Second Reader. The Pupil's Guide, on a new plan, combining 
spelling and reading, and containing an extensive variety of 
mental exercises; with an appendix of orthogiaphy (as it should 
be,) stereotype edition : 12mo 160p — New York, published by 
Baker & Scribner, 1849 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner, 

The Virginia Reader, No. 1, or child's first book. 4th stere- 
otype edition revised: 12mo 72p — Richmond, published by 
Harrold & Murray, 1849 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

Webb (J. Watson) Altowan ; or, incidents of life and adventure in the 
Rocky mountains, by an amateur traveler ; two volumes. Edited 
by J.' Watson Webb: 12mo, Vol. 1, 2o5p ; Vol. 2, 240p — 
New York, puldished by Harper & Brothers, 1846 ; deposited 
by Harper & Brothers. 

Webber (Charles W.) The Gold Mines of the Gila; a sequel to Old Hicks 
the Guide. Complete in two volumes : 12mo, Vol. 1, 134p ; 
Vol. 2, 268p — New York, published by Dewitt & Davenport, 
1849 ; deposited by Dewitt & Davenport. 

Old Hicks the Guide; or, adventures in search of a 
gold mine in the Camanche country: 12mo 356p — New 
York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848; deposited by 
Harper & Jirothers. 

Webster (Thomas, F. G. S.) An EncyclopaMlia of Domeslic Economy; 
comprising such subjects as are most immediately connected 
wdth housekeeping; as the construction of (h:)mestic edifices, 
with modes of warming, ventilating and lighting them; a de- 
scription of the various articles of furniture; a general account 



[ 1 ] 218 

of the animal and vegetable substances used as food, and the 
methods of preserving and preparing them by cooking, &c., &c. 
By Thomas Webster. Assisted by the late Mrs. Parkes. From 
the last London edition ; with notes and improvements, by D. 
Meredith Reese, A. M., M. D. Illustrated by nearly one-thou- 
sand engravings : 8vo large, 1238p — New York, published by 
Harper & Brothers, 1845 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Webster (Daniel) The diplomatic and official papers of Daniel Webster, 
while Secretary of State : 8vo 392p — New York, published 
by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; deposited by Harper & Bro- 
thers. 

Webster (E.) Key to the Phonographic Instructor ; 16mo 24p — Phila- 
delphia, published by E. Webster, 1849 ; deposited by E. Web- 
ster. 

Webster (Noah, LL. D.) An American Dictionary of the English lan- 
guage ; containing the whole vocabulary of the first edition in 
two volumes quarto; the entire corrections and improvements of 
the second edition in two volumes royal 8vo ; to which is pre- 
fixed an introductory dissertation on the origin, history and con- 
nection of the languages of western Asia and Europe, with an 
explanation of the principles on which languages are formed. 
proRevised and enlarged, by Chauncey A. Goodrich. With 
nouncing vocabularies of scripture, classical, and geographical 
names: 4to 1367p — Springfield, Mass., published by George 
& Charles Merriam, 1848 ; deposited by George & Charles 
Merriam. 

Weisbach (Julius) Principles of the mechanics of machinery and engineer- 
ing. First American edition; edited by Walter R. Johnson, A. 
M. Two volumes; illustrated with engravings on wood : vol. 1, 
theoretical mechanics ; vol. 2, applied mechanics : 8vo large, 
vol. 1, 534 illustrations, 486p ; vol. 2, 331 illustrations, 368p — 
Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1849 ; deposited 
by Lea & Blanchard. 

Weld (Rev. H. Hastings) The Women of the Scriptures ; edited by H. H. 
Weld : 8vo large, 240p — Philadelphia, pubHshed by Lindsay 
& Blakiston, 1848 ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston. 

Wharton (Francis) Precedents of indictments and pleas, adapted to the use 
both of the courts of the United States, and those of all the 
several States ; together with notes on criminal pleading and 
practice, embracing the English and American authorities gen- 
erally : 8vo large, 694p — Philadelphia, published by James 
Kay, Jr. & Brother, 1849 ; deposited by James Kay, Jr. & 
Brother. 

State trials of the United States during the adminis- 
trations of Washington and Adams; with references, historical 
and professional, and preliminary notes on the politics of the 
times : 8vo large, 727p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & 
Hart, 1849 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

' A treatise on the criminal law of the United States ; 

comprising a digest of the penal statutes of the general govern- 



219 [ 1 ] 

ment, and of Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania and Vir- 
[^inia; with the decisions on cases arising upon those statutes, 
togetiier with the English and American authorities upon crimi- 
nal law in general : 8vo large, 688p — Philadelphia, published 
by James, Kay, Jr. & Brother, 1846 ; deposited by James Kay, 
Jr. & Brother. 
Wheeler (Henry G.) History of Congress, biographical and political ; vol. 
1, containing memoirs of members of Congress of the United 
States, drawji from authentic sources; embracing the prominent 
events of their lives anil their connection with the political|liis- 
tory of the times; vol. 2, comprising a history of internal im- 
provements, rivers, (harbors, &c.,) from the foundation of the 
government to the present time ; embracing also historical no- 
tices of various political events, &c. : 8vo large, vol. 1, 568p ; 
vol. 2, 563p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 
1848 ; deposited by Henry G. Wheeler. 

White (Frederick Thomas) and Tudor (Owen Davies) A selection of 
leading cases in Equity with Notes, with additional annota- 
tions containing references to American cases, by John Jones, 
Clark Hare and Horace Binney Wallace : 8vo large, 649p — 
Philadelphia, published by T. & J. W. Johnson, "l849 ; de- 
posited by T. & J. W. Johnson. 

Whitlock (Rev. George Clinton, A. M.) Elements of Geometry theoret- 
ical and practical; containing a full explanation of the construc- 
tion and use of tables, and a new system of surveying : 8vo 
324p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 
1848 ; deposited by George Clinton Whitlock. 

Whytehead (Rev. Robert, M. A.) A Key to the Prayer Book of the 
Protestant Episcopal Church; designed to illustrate its meaning, 
use and scriptural character. Revised and adapted to the Ameri- 
can prayer book, by Rev. James H. Fowles : 12mo 358p — 
Philadelphia, published by Edward Gaskill, 1849 ; depositc-d 
by Edward Gaskill. 

WiKOFF (Henry) Napoleon Louis Bonaparte, First President of France; 
biographical and personal sketches, including a visit to the 
Prince at the Castle of Ham : 12mo loop — New York, pub- 
lished by George P. Putnam, 1849 ; deposited by George P. 
Putnam. 

Wilcox (P. B.) A Digest of the Ohio Reports, Volumes 13, 14, 15 and 16; 
being a supplement to the digest of the previous twelve vol- 
umes, containing together all the cases ever reported at law 
and in equity in the Supreme court of the State of Ohio, in 
bank : 8vo large, 141p — Columbus, published by I. N. Whi- 
ting & Huntingdon, 1848 ; de])osite(l by I. N. Whiting. 

Practical forms in actions, personal and real, and in chan- 
cery, now in common use in the State of Ohio; with notes: 
second edition : 8vo large — Columbus, ])ublished by Isaac N. 
Whiting, 1848 ; deposited by Issac N. Whiting. 

Wilkes (Charles, U. S. N.) Voyage round the world, embracing the prin- 
cipal events of the narrative of the United States exploring ex- 



[ 1 ] 220 

pedition ; illustrated with one hundred and seventy-eight engra- 
vings on wood ; 8vo 668p — Philadelphia, published by George 
W. Gorton, 1849 ; deposited by Charles Wilkes. 
WiLLARD (Emma) English Chronographer; or Chronology of Great Britain : 
4to — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1849 ; de- 
posited by Emma Willard. 

Historic guide. Guide to the Temple of Tune, and univer- 
sal history; for schools : 8vo llOp — New York, published by 
A. S. Barnes & Co., 1849 ; deposited by Emma Willard. 

History of the United States or Republic of America; con- 
tinued to the close of the Mexican war : 8vo 496p — New 
York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1849 ; deposited by 
A. S. Barnes & Co". 

Last leaves of American history, comprising the histories 
of the Mexican war and California : 12mo 230p — New York, 
published by G. P. Putnam, 1849 ; deposited by G. P. Put- 
nam. 

Abridged history of the United States, or Republic of America; 
new and enlarged edition : 12mo 405p — New York, pub- 
lished by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1849 ; deposited by Emma 
Willard. 

William, the Cottager ; by the author of Ellen Herbert : 12mo 168p — 
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; depositeil 
by Harper & Brothers. 

Williams (Charles J. B., M, D., F. R. S.) Principles of Medicine: com- 
prising general pathology and therapeutics, and a brief general 
view of etiology, nosology, semeiology, diagnosis, prognosis, 
and hygienics. Edited with additions by Meredith Clymer, M. 
D. Third Ameiican from the second and enlarged London 
edition : 8vo 440p — Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blan- 
chard, 1848 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard. 

Willis (N. P.) Poems of early and after years; illustrated by E. Leutze : 
8vo large, 410p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart: 
1848 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Rural Letters and other records of Thought at leisure, 
written in the intervals of more hurried literary labor ; the 
volume contains "Letters from under a Bridge," " Open air Mu- 
sings in the City," Invalid rambles in Germany, Letters from 
Watering Places, &c. : 12rao o80p — New York, published by 
Baker & Scribner, 1849 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

W^iLsoN (Erasmus, M. D.) A system of human Anatomy, general and spe- 
cial. Fourth American from the last London edition, edited by 
Paul B. Goiklard, A. M., M. D. With two hundred and fifty- 
one illustrations by Gilbert : 8vo 576p — Philadelphia, published 
by Lea & Blanchard, 1848 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard. 

Wilson (Marcius) American History; comprising historical sketches of the 
the Indian tribes, a description of American antiquities, with an 
enquiry into their origin and the origin of the Indian tribes'; 
the history of the United States, &c., &c., history of the pres* 



221 [ 1 ] 

ont British Provinces, history of Mexico and liistory of Texas, 
brought ik)\vn to the time of its achnission into the American 
Union : l^mo 67'2p — Cincinnati, })uhHshed by William H. 
Moore & Co., New York, 1847 ; deposited by Marcius Wilson. 

Wilson (Marcius) Juvenile American History for Primary Schools : 16mo 
160p — New York, publislied by Mark H. Newman & Co., 
ISNr? ; deposited by M. Wilson. 

Winchester (George W.) Book-keeping, or, teacher's guide ; containing 
the principles of double entry, &c., &c., &c. : 4to 92p — 
Hartford, published by J. H.' Mather & Co., 1848 ; deposited 
by George W. Winchester. 

Journal to Winchester's new method of teaching 
Book-keeping by single entry ; being an accompaniment to the 
teachers guide : 4to 30p — Hartford, published by J. H. Mather 
(lie Co., 184(3 ; deposited by George W. Winchester. 

Same for Book-keeping by Double Entry : 4to 
48p — same publishers, 1848 ; deposited by G. W. Winchester. 

Ledger to Winchester's new method of teaching 
Book-keeping by single entry, an accompaniment to the teach- 
er's guide : 4to o2p — Hartford, published by J. H. Mather &. 
Co., 1846 ; deposited by George W. Winchester. 

Same for Book-keeping by double entry : 4to 47p 
— Hartford, published by J. H. Mather & Co., 1848 ; depos- 
ited by George W. Winchester. 

Theoretical and Practical Penmanship, in four 
books ; accompanied by the muscular disciphnarian, penman's 
chart and inkstand model for pen holding : 28p each — Hart- 
ford, published by J. H. Mather & Co., 1844; deposited by 
George W. Winchester. 

Drawing Series, in four books ; being an accom- 
paniment to his drawing and writing cards and exercises in 
perspective. Book 1 : 8vo 32p — Hartford, published 
by Henry S. Parsons & Co., 1848 ; deposited by George 
W. Winchester. 

Winter (T.) A Guide to Floriculture; containing instructions to the young 
ilorist for the management of the most popular flowers of the 
day; illustrated with colored plates : 12mo 226p — Cincinnati, 
])ublished by Derby, Bradley & Co., 1847 : deposited by T. 
Winter. 

Wise (Lieutenant, U. S. A.) Los Gringos ; or the inside view of Mexico 
and California, with wanderings in Peru, Chili and Polynesia : 
Svo 4'33p — New York, published by Baker & Sciibner', 1849 ; 
deposited by Baker & Scribner. 

Worcester (Joseph E.) A universal and ciHical Dictionary of the English 
language: to which are added Walker's key to the pronuncia- 
tion of Classical and Scripture proper names, much enlarged and 
improved, and a pronouncing vocabulary of modern geographi- 
cal names : 8vo large, 65(5p — Boston, published by Wllkins, 
Carter & Co., 1816 ; deposited by J. E. Worcester. 



[ 1 ] 222 

Worcester (Joseph E.) A comprehensive, pronouncinfy and explanatory 
Dictionary of the English language; with vocabularies of classi- 
cal, scripture and modern geographical names; revised, enlarged, 
and made substantially an abridgment of the author's Universal 
and Critical Dictionary : 12mo 491p — Boston, published by 
Jenks & Palmer, 1S48 ; deposited by J. E. Worcester. 

Woodbury (Charles L.) and Minot (George) Reports of cases argued and 
determined in the Circuit court of the United States for the first 
circuit. Volume 2 : Svo large, 564p — Boston, published by Lit- 
tle & Brown, 1849 ; deposited by Little & Brow^n. 

Wood (George B.) A treatise on the practice of medicine. In two volumes ; 
8vo large, vol 1, 798p ; vol. 2, 840p — Philadelphia, published 
by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1847 ; deposited by George B. Wood. 

Wood (William Maxwxll, M. D.,) Wandering sketches of people and things 
in South America, Polynesia, California, and other places 
visited during a cruise on board the United States ships Levant, 
Portsmouth and Savannah : 12mo 386p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by Carey & Hart, 1849 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Wyatt (Thomas A. M.) History of the kings of France ; containing the 
principal incidents in their lives, from the foundation of the 
monarchy to Louis Phillippe, with a concise biography of each ; 
illustrated by seventy-two portraits of the Sovereigns of France : 
12mo 252p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & Hart, 1846 ; 
deposited by Carey & Hart. 

Memoirs of the Generals, Commodores, and other com- 
manders, who distinguished themselves in the American army 
and navy during the w^ars of the revolution and 1812; and who 
were presented with medals by Congress, for their gallant ser- 
vices : 8vo large, 315p — Philadelphia, published by Carey & 
Hart, 1848 ; deposited by Carey & Hart. 

The Sacred Tableaux ; or, remarkable incidents in the 
Old and New Testament, illustrated by forty steel engravings, 
from the ancient masters ; the descriptions by distinguished 
American writers ; edited by Thomas Wyatt, A. M : 12mo 314p 
— Boston, published by John M. Whittemore, 1848 ; depo- 
sited by John M. Whittemoi-e. 
Xenopiion — The Anabasis of Xenophon, with English notes, critical and 
explanatory, a map arranged according to the best authorities, 
and a plan of the battle of Cunaxa; by Charles Anhton, LL. D. : 
8vo 682p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848; 
deposited by Harper & Brothers. 

Memorabilia of Socrates, with Englisli notes, critical and 
explanatory, the Prolegomena of Klihner, Wigger's life of Soc- 
rates, &c., by Charles Anthon, LL. D. : 8vo 458p — New 
York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1848 ; deposited by 
Harper & Brothers. 
YoUATT (William) The Dog; with illustrations, edited with additions by E. 
J. Lewis, M. D. : 8vo large, 403p — Philadelphia, published 
by Lea & Blanchard, 1847 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard. 



223 [ 1 ] 

Young (Augustus) Unity of purpose, or rational analysis ; being a treatise 
designed to disclose physical truths, and to detect and expose 
popular errors: 8vo 292p — Boston, published by S. N. Dick- 
inson & Co., 1846 ; deposited by Augustus Young. 

ZscHOKKE (Heinrich) The Galley Slave, translated from the German by 
the late J. T. S. Sullivan, from the forty-fifth German edition : 
8vo 230p — Philadelphia, published by H. N. Joy & Co., 
1849 ; deposited by H. N. Joy & Co. 

ZuMPT (C. G.) A School Grammar of the Latin Language. Translated 
and adapted to the use of the High School of Edinburgh, by 
Leonhard Schmitz ; enlarged by Charles Anthon, LL. D.: 8vo 
247p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; 
deposited by Harper & Brothers. 



PJRT IL — LIST OF MUSICAL COMPOSITIONS. 



Abdy (Mrs.) See: Strakosch. 

AiKiN (J. B.) The Juvenile Minstrel, a new system of musical Notation; with 
a choice collection of moral and sacred songs, designed -for ju» 
venile singing schools, public schools, juvenile concerts, select 
classes, and fomily circles, by J. B. Aikin : 12mo long, 208p' — 
Philadelphia, published by E. C. & J. Biddle, 1847 ; deposit£<l 
by T. K. & P. G. Collins. 

Andrews (John C.) Jennie, with her bonnie blue e'e; written and composetl 
by John C, Andrews : 4to 5p — New York, published by Wil^ 
liam Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & Son. 

Ball (Eli) The Manual of the sacred Choir: a selection of tunes and hymns, 
from the most approved authors, adapted to public worship, to 
revivals, to prayer meetings and to family w^orship: by Eli Ball : 
IGmo 128p — Richmond, published by Harrold & Murray, 1849 : 
deposited by Eli Ball. 

Balmer (Charles) A Heart that's kind and true ; ballad written by Henry 
F. Watson ; music by Charles Balmer : 4to 5p — New York, 
published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by W^illiam 
Hall & Son. 

Barnett (James C.) Princess Alice waltz, composed and arranged for the 
])iano fort(^ by James C. Barnett: 4to 4p — New York, pub- 
lished by William Hall & Son, 184!) ; deposited by Wilham 
Hall & Son. 

Berg (Albert W.) Lake George Waltz, composed for the piano forte by 
Albert W. Berg : 4to 5p — New York, published by William 
Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & Son. 

Borra (Signor J.) Memphis W^^ltz, with an accompaniment for flute or 
violin, composed by Signor J. Borra : 4to 5p — Cincinnati, pub- 
lished by Peters &. Field, 1846 ; deposited by Peters & Field. 



[ 1 ] 224 

Bradbury (W. B.) See Hastings (Thomas.) 

BuLLARD (O. B.) The Sabbath School Vocahst: a collection of hymns and 
music, selected and arranged for general use in Sabbath schools 
and families, by O. B. Bullard : 12mo long, 48p — Boston, 
published by Benjamin Perkins & Co., 1848 : deposited by O, 
B. Bullard.' 

California as it is ; comic song, written by Thaddeus W. Meighan, sung 
by Pete Morris : 4to 5p — New York, published by William 
Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & Son. 

Carpenter (J. E., Esq.) See : Maeder. 

Chadwick (Henry) Hudson Waltz, composed and arranged for the piano 
forte by Henry Chadwick : 4to 4p — New York, published by 
Jaques & Brother, 1849 ; deposited by Jaques & Brother. 

See : Emma Snow ; Lover (Samuel) ; Dinah Crow ; Oh I 
would I were a girl again. 

Chandler (E. S.) See: Uncle Ned. 

Christy (E. P.) See : Susan Rayne. 

Concone(J.) The Pensive Thought, or Last Adieu, words and arrange- 
ment by Henri, composed by J. Concone : 4to 6p — New York, 
pultlished by Jaques & Brother, 1849 ; deposited by Jaques 
& Brother. 

CoppocK (W. R.) The Vine Cot Waltzes, a la cinq Temps, composed by 
W. R. Coppock : 4to 7p — New York, published by William 
Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & Son. 

CosTY (F. Esq.) See : I may not meet them. 
Crosby (F.) See : De Meyer. 
CuMMiNG (William) See : Kneass. 

CuNNiNGTON (W. P.) I have loved but the dream is now over ; a ballad, 
composed by W. P. Cunnington, 4to 5p — Baltimore, published 
by G. Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr. 

Cutter (Captain G. W.) See : E. Pluribus Unum. 

Deems (J. M.) Une Petite Recreation Musicale, composee a quatre mains 
pour le piano par J. M. Deems ; 4to 7p — Baltimore, published 
by George Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr. 

De Meyer — Twilight is Closing ; ballad ; words by F. Crosby, melody 
from De Meyer's celebrated " Chant Bohemienne " : arranged 
by W. C. Peters; 4to 7p — New York, published by William 
Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by W^illiam Hall & Son. 

Dielman (Professor H.) Grand Inauguration March; performed on the oc- 
casion of the inauguration of General Taylor, as President of 
the United States; composed and arranged for the })iano forte, 
by Professor H. Dielman : 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by 
G. Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr. 

Dinah Crow; Ethiopean Melody, arranged for the Spanish Guitar by Henry 
Chadwick : 4to 2p — New York, pubilsaed by William Hall & 
Son, 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & Son. 

DoD worth (Allen) The Cally Quadrilles, by Allen Dodworth : 4to 7p — 



225 [ 1 ] 

New York, publislied by VVm. Hall Son, 1849 ; deposittd l)y 
William Hall & Son. 

DoDWORTii (Harvey B.) Diligent Hose Companys Quick Step, composed 
and arranged by Harvey B. Dodworth, Ito op — New York, 
published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by William 
Jlall & Son 1849. 

Domestic and Social Harp (The) A collection of tunes and hymns intended 
for family and chapel use ; 12mo long, 168p — Hartford, pub- 
lished l)y D. R. Woodford & Co., 1848 ; deposited by O. P. 
Woodford, 1848. 

Drennon Polka Quadrilles (The) arranged for the piano forte by W. C. 
Peters : 4to 7p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1849 ; 
deposited by W. C. Peters, 21 September 1849. 

Emma Snow, the celebrated Ethiopian song, arranged for the Spanish 
Guitar, by Heniy Chadwick : 4to 2p — New York, published 
by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & 
Son, 14 December 1849. 

E Pluribus Unum, An American Nalional song for two voices, with an 
accompaniment for the guitar; words by Captain G, W. Cutler, 
arranged by Mrs. Edward H. Pendleton : 4to Op — Baltimore, 
published by W. C. Peters, 1849 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 
8 December 1849. 

An American National song, written by Captain G.- W. 
Cutter, the music adapted and arranged for the Baltimore 
Olio, by Mrs. Edward H. Pendleton, arranged as a quartette 
for four voices : 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 
1849; deposited by W. C. Peters, 8 December 1849. 

An American National song, written by Captain G. W. 
Cutter ; the music adapted and arranged for the Baltimore 
Olio by Mrs. Edward H. Pendleton; 4to 5p — Baltimore, pub- 
lished by W. C. Peters, 1849 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 8 
December 1849. 

Ernst (Louis) North Carolina Polka, composed by Louis Ernst: 4to5p — 
New York, publislied by William Hall & Son, 1849 : deposited 
by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 

Foster (Stephen C.) Summer Longings; song, words from the Home Jour- 
nal; composed by Stephen C. Foster : 4to Op — Baltimore, pub- 
lished by William C. Peters, 1849 ; deposited by William C. 
Peters, 22 November 1849. 

" There's a good Time Coming;" song, lines from the 
TiOndon Daily News; composed by S. C. Foster: 4to op — 
Cincinnati, published by Peters & Field ; deposited by W^illiam 
C. Peters. 

VowT.ER (J. A.) Sounds from the Valley ; a brilliant waltz, with introduc- 
tion, composed for the piano forte, by J. A. Fowler : 4to 7p 
— New Yoik, ]nd)lished l)y William Hall & Son, 1849 ; depo- 
sited by William Hall & Son 14 December 1849. 

( tallMher (W. D., Esq.) See : There's something on my lips, Love I 

Germon (F. C.) See : Howard (Frank.) 
Mis. — lo. 



[ 1 ] 226 

Grattan (H. p.) See : Loder George. 

Grobe (Charles) Romanesca Polka, composed by Charles Grobe : 4to 2p 
— New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; de- 
posited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 

Salut A New York Variations brilliantes, sur le theme 
favori, The " Evergreen Waltz," composees pour le piano par 
Charles Grobe: 4to lip — Baltimore, published by George 
Willig, Jr. ; 1849 ; deposited by George Willig, 4 April 1849, 

Veni, Vidi, Vici. The Battle of Buena Vista, a descrip- 
tive fantasie for the piano, composed by Charles Grobe : 4to 
14p — Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849 ; de- 
posited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

See : Nauenburg (G.) 

See : Otto (F.) 

Guernsey (Wellington) See : Oh ! would I were a Girl again. 

Harry and Lucy. Coralie, a new Ethiopian song, WTitten and composed by 
Harry and Lucy, arranged for Diunbolton's Ethiopian serena- 
ders, by Frank Howard : 4to 5p — New York, published by 
William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 
14 December, 1849. 

Hartge (Levine G.) Guida Waltz, composed by Levine G. Hartge : 4to 
2p — Baltunore, published by George WDlig, Jr., 1849 ; de- 
posited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

Priscilla Polka, composed by Levine G. Hartge : 4t(> 
2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited 
by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

Hastings (Thomas) and Bradbury (William B.) The New York Choralist: 
a new and copious collection of psalm and hymn tunes, adapteil 
to all the various metres in general use, with a large variety of 
anthems and set pieces : 8vo long, 3o2p — New York, pub- 
lished by Mark H. Newman & Co., 1847 ; deposited by Tho- 
mas Hastings and William B. Bradbury, 1847. 

Heness (Theophilus) Agamia Waltz, composed by Theophilus Heness : 
4to 2p — Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849 ; 
deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

Hess (Charles) The Jenny Gray Polka, composed by Charles Hess: 4to 
2p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 : 
deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 
See Jeannette and Jeannot, and Lover (Samuel.) 
Hewitt (J. H.) " My Heart's with Thee " : a ballad written and composed 
by J. H. Hewitt: 4to lip — Baltimore, published by George 
Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 
1849. 

See : Oh I have I not been true to Thee. 

Hill (U. C.) The Sister's Call, composed by U. C. Hill, arranged for the 
Spanish guitar, by L. Tripp : 4to 2p — New York, published 
by William Hair& Son, 1849 : deposited by William Hall &- 
Son, 14 December 1849. 



227 [ 1 ] 

Holland (Albert) Captain Shutt's Quick step, as performed by the Inde- 
pendent Blues' band — composed and arranged by Albert Hol- 
land : 4to op — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849 : 
deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

President Taylor's grand Inauguration March, composed 
by Albert Holland : 4to 4p — Baltimore, published by G. Wil- 
lig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

Howard (Frank) The Female Slave's Lament ; words by F. C. Germon, 
music by Frank Howard : 4to 7p — New York, published by 
William Hall & Son, 1849 : deposited by William Hall & Son. 
14 December 1849. 

See : Harry and Lucy. 

I MAY NOT meet Thee, song, written by F. Cosby, Esq., arranged by W. C. 
Peters: 4to op— Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 
1849 ; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

I (W. B.) See : Woodbury. 

Jeannette and Jeannot, (Conscripts departure,) arranged for the Spanish 
Guitar, by Charles Hess : 4to 2p — New York, jiublished by 
William Hall & Son, 1849 : deposited by William Hall k 
Son, 14 December 1849. 

J (xM.'J.,) See : " See that little flower so gay." 

Johnson (A, N.) The Choir Chorus book; a collection of choruses from' the 
works of Handel, Haydn, Mozart, Cherubini, Mendelssohn, 
Sphor, Romberg, Neukomm, Rossini and other distinguished 
composers ; compiled, adapted to English words, and arranged 
with particular reference to choir practice, and for the use ol 
musical societies : 8vo long, 284p — Boston, published by 
Wilkins, Carter & Co., and George P. Reed, 1848 ; deposited 
by A. N. Johnson 1848. 

Johnson (J. C.) Juvenile Oratorios; a collection of songs designed for floral 
and other concerts, juvenile classes, schools, &c. ; the festival of 
the Rose ; the Indian Summer ; the Children of Jerusalem; by 
Janies C. Johnson: 12mo long, 176p — Boston, published by 
Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1849 ; deposited by J. C. Johnson, 4 
May 1849. 

Jones (L. J.) The Southern Minstrel; a collection of psalm and hymn tunes, 
odes and anthems, in three parts, selected from en^inent authors, 
together with a number of new tunes never before published, 
suited to nearly every metre, and well adapted to churches of 
every denomination, singing schools and private societies, with 
plain rules for learners, i)y L. J. Jones : 8vo long, 280p — Phi- 
ladelphia, pul)lishe(l by Grigg, Elliot & Co., 1849; deposited 
by C. Sheiinan, 10 November 1849. 

Kneass (Nelson) Old Aunty j3rown, as sung by Mrs, C. Howard ; poetry 
by the "Pale Student," altered from a Melody by Nelsori 
Kneass, arranged for the Baltimore Olio, by William Cumming, 
[piano,] 4to Op — Cincinnati, published by Peters & Field, 
1849 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 22 December 1849.. 
*'01d Aunty Brown;" poetry by the "Pale Student," altert<| 



[ 1 ] 228 

from a melody by Nelson Kneass ; arranged for the Baltimore 
Olio, by William Cmiiming. [guitar] : 4to 5p — Cincinnati, 
published by Peters & Field, 1849 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 
22 December 1849. 
Leach (Stephen) Let all Obey, the celebrated encore song in Balfe's opera, 
The Enchantress. Composed and arranged with piano forte ac- 
companiments, by Stephen Leach : 4to 5p — New York, pub- 
lished by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by William 
Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 

r>ENSCH0w(C.) Betty Polka: composed for the piano forte by C. Lenschow: 
4to 5p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849 ; depo- 
sited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

LoDER (George) The Bride ; words by H. P. Grattan, music by George 
Loder : 4to 5p — New York, published by William Hall & 
Son, 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 
1849. 

Longfellow (Henry W.) See : Sanford (Lucy A.) 

Lover (Samuel) The Low Backed Car, written and composed by Samuel 
Lover, arranged for the Spanish Guitar by Henry Chadwick: 
4to 2p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; 
deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 

Oh I watch you well by Daylight, composed by Samuel 
Lover, arranged for the Spanish Guitar by Charles Hess : 4to 
3p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; 
deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 

M^DER (James G.) The Maiden's Dream, ballad, w^ritten by J. E. Car- 
penter, Esq., music composed by James G. Madder : 4to 7p — 
New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited 
by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 

Mine Own, ballad, written by Mrs. Charles Kean, 
composed by James G. Maeder : 4to 5p — New York, published 
by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & 
Son, 14 December 1849. 

Were I but his own Wife, ballad, words from the 
"Dublin Nation," music composed by James G. Mseder : 4to 5p 
— New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; depos- 
ited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 
M.vRTiN (J.) The Old Gray Church; words by Alfred Tennyson, composed 
by J. Martin : 4to Op — published by George Willig, Jr., 1849 ; 
deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

Mason (William) Fireside Harmony ; a new collection of glees and part 
songs, arranged for soprano, alto, tenor, and bass voices: 
8vo long, 128p — Boston, published by Tappan, Whitte- 
more & Mason, 1848 ; deposited by Tappan, Whittemore & 
Mason, 1848. • 

Mason (Lowell) and Webb (George James) The Song Book of the school- 
room, consisting of a great variety of songs, hymns, and scrip- 
tural selections, with appropriate music, arranged to be sung in 
one, two, or three parts ; containing also the elementary princi- 



229 [ 1 ] 

pies of vocal music, prepared with reference to the inductive or 
Pestalozzian method of teaching ; designed as a complete music 
manual for common or grammar schools, by Lowell Mason and 
George James Webb : l!2mo long, 224p — Boston, published 
by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1847 ; deposited by Wilkins, Carter 
& Co., 1847. 

The Primary School Song 
Book, in two parts ; the first part consisting of songs suitable 
for primary or juvenile singing schools, and the second part con- 
sisting of an explanation of the inductive or Pestalozzian me- 
thod of teaching music in such schools : 12mo long, 96p — 
Boston, published by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1847 ; depo- 
sited by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1847. 
Mason (Lowell) The National Psalmist; a collection of the most popular 
and useful psalm and hymn tunes; together with a great variety 
of new tunes, anthems, sentences and chants : 8vo long, 352p 

— Boston, published by Tappan, Whittemore & Mason, 1848; 
deposited by Tappan, Whittemore & Mason, 1848. 

Mathews (John M.) Bertie Waltz, composed by John M. Matthews : 4to 
2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1848 ; deposited 
by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

Edenton Quick Step, composed by John M. Matthews : 
4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849 ', de- 
posited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

Reflection Waltz, composed by J. M. Mathews : 4to 2p — 
Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by G. 
Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

Meigham (Thaddeus W.) See : California as it is. 

MiNNicK (G. W.) Washington Literary Association's quick step, as per- 
formed at their third annual entertainment l^y the Independent 
Greys' band ; composed and arranged by G. W. Minnick : 4to2p 

— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited \)\ 
G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

MuLLER (Julius E.) Virginia's Waltz, composed by Julius E. Midler, 4to 
2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 18-19 ; deposited 
by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

Nax (Joseph) Emilie Waltz, composed by Joseph Nax : 4to 2p — Balti- 
more, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited b\ 
George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

The Fredericksburg Serenading W^altz, composed by ,Jose])}i 
Nax: 4to 2j) — Baltimore, published by George Willig, Ji., 
1849; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

Nauenburg (G.) Love me — not with Fancy; words from the Literary 
World, adapted to a melody by G. Nauenburg, arranged for 
the piano by Charles (Jrobe : 4to 5p — Baltimore, jjublished 
by George Willig, Jr., 1H49 ; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 
4 April 1849. 

Oh I have I not been true to Thee, written and adapted to a beautiful mel- 
ody by John H. Hewitt : 4to 5p — ]Jaltimore, published by 



[ 1 ] 230 

George Willie, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by Geoi'ge Willig, Jr., 4 

Aprill849. 
"Oh Susanna" ; a popular Elhiopan song, arranged for the guitar by F. 

Weiland : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 

1849 ; deposited by Lee & Walker, 6 August 1849. 
Oh ! Would I were a girl again, ballad, composed by Wellington Guernsey ^ 

arranged for the Spanish guitar by Henry Chadwick : 4to 2}) 

— New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; depo- 
sited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 

Otto (F.)I can't make up my Mind; words from Hood's Magazine, adapted 
to melody by F. Otto, and arranged for the piano, by Charles 
Grobe : 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849 : 
deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

"Sunset on the Sea;" the poetry by Charles P. Shiras, adap- 
ted to a melody by F. Otto, arranged for the piano, by Charles 
Grobe : 4to 5p — "Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1849 : 
deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

Pendleton (Mrs. Edward H.) See : E Pluribus Unum. 

Peters (W. C.) The Matamdros grand march, arranged and partly com- 
posed for the piano forte, by W. C. Peters — Cincinnati, pub- 
lished by Peters & Field ; deposited by W. C. Peters. 

See : De Meyer ; See : There's something on my lip, 
love ; See : I inay not meet thee ; See : Drennon polka 
quadrilles. 

PouLTON (George R.) Buena Vista polka, by George R. Poulton : 4to 2p 

— New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; depo- 
sited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 

Root (George F.) and Svveetser (Joseph E.) A collection of church Music • 
comprising many of the most popular and useful tunes in com- 
mon use, together with a great variety of new and original 
psalm and hymn tunes, sentences, motets, anthems, chants, &c., 
designed for the use of choirs, congregations, singing schools* 
and societies : 8vo long, 348p — New York, published by John 
Wiley, 1849 ; deposited by John Wiley, 25 August 1849. 

Sanf'ord (Lucy A.) Stars of the Summer night, serenade; from the Spanish 
Student; written by H. W. Longfellow, composed by Lucy A. 
Sanford : 4to 3p — New York, published by William Hall & 
Son, 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 
1849. 

Saroni (Herman S.) I wandered in the Woodlands. English words by Mrs. 
Osgood, German words by H. S. Saroni ; music by H. S. Sa- 
roni : 4to 7p — New York, published by William Hall & Son. 
1849 ; deposited by \MIliam Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. ' 

Schxeider (J) Twigg's Riflemen's Quick Step, composed by J. Schneider : 
4to Ip — Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849 : 
deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

ScHELL (John) The Battle of Resaca de la Palma, composed for the piano 
forte by J. Schell : 4to 13p — Baltimore, published by George 



231 [ 1 J 

"Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 
1849. 

See that little flower so gay, for one or two voices, arranged hy J. M. J. : 
4to 4p — New York, published l)y Jaques & Brother, 1849 : 
deposited by Jaques & Brother, 19 December 1^49, 

Seiglixg (Marie R.) Souvenir de la Saxe, valse pour le piano forte. Prece- 
dee d'une introduction sentinientale composee par Marie R, 
Seigling : 4to 7p — Baltimore, published by George Willig, 
Jr., 1849 ; deposited by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849. 

iSELLE (Louis) Mass for three Voices, by Louis Selle, 4to 34p — New 
York, published by W^illiam Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by 
William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 

Shiras (Charles P.) See: Otto F, 

Simons (George W.) Be kind to each -other, song for one or two voices, 
composed by George W. Simons : 4to 2p — Cincinnati, pub- 
lished by W. C. Peters ; deposited by W. C. Peters. 

Sloman (Jane) The Mosquito Polka, by Jane Sloman : 4to 5p — New 
York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by 
William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 

Smith (Henry) The Church Harmony, containing a selection of psalm and 
hymn tunes, set to pieces and anthems from the most approved 
authors, adapted to the divine worship of the various religious 
denominations; and a concise introduction to music. With' addi- 
tions and improvements, including a supplement or selection of 
sacred music, adapted to the service of the sanctuary, in the 
German language; also a series of practical lessons on time, no- 
tation, &c., on a new and improved arrangem<?nt. 26th edition. 
By Henry Smith : IGmo long, ooop — Chambersburg, pvd)lishe(i 
by the proprietor ; deposited by Henry Smith. 

^Stoddard (J. T.) Evergreen Waltz, composed l:)y J. T. Stoddard : 4to 2p 
— Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposi- 
ted by George Willig, Jr., 4 April 1849.^ 

■Strakosch (Maurice) Souvenir de I'Amerique. Amusement de Salon, sur 
les motivs Eteiopins, compose par M. Strakosch : 4to 9p — 
Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1849 ; deposited by W. 
€. Peters, 21 September 1849. 

Mazurka Brilliante, composed for the piano forte by 
M. Strakosch : 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C, Pe'- 
ters, 1849 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 18 December 1849. 

Mazurka »Sentimentale, composed for tlie piano forte 
by M. Strakosch : 4to ~)p — Baltimore, pulilished by W. C. 
Peters, 1846 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 18 December 1849. 

La Sylphide, Fantaisie Romantique, pour le piano, 
composee par Maurice Sirakosch: 4to lop— Ncav York, pub- 
lished by William Hall e^ Son, 1849; deposited by William 
Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 

The Moonlight of the Heart, a song ; the words by 
Mrs. Abdy, the music by Maurice Strakosch : 4to 7p — New 



[1] 



9P.9 



York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by 
William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 

Souvenir de I'Amerique. Amusement de Salon, sur 
des motivs Etiopiens, compose par Strakosch : 4to 9p — Bal- 
timore, published by W. C. Peters, 1849 ; deposited by W. C. 
Peters, G August 1849. 

Susan Rayne, a celebrated Ethiopian melody, arranged by E. P. Christy : 
4to 7p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849; 
deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 

SwEETSER (Joseph E.) See: Root (George F.) 

Tennyson (Alfred) See : Martin. 

There's something on my lip, Love ! ballad, written by W. D. Gallagher, 
adapted to an air, quanto e bella, quanto e cara, in Donizetti's 
opera, L'Elisire d' Amour, by W. C. Peters : 4to 7p — Balti- 
more, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by 
George Willig. Jr., 4 April 1849. 

Thomas (E.) The Tears of early Love, a favorite ballad, written by F. W. 
Thomas, the music composed by E. Thomas : 4to 5p — Balti- 
more, published by William C. Peters, 1849 ; deposited by 
William C. Peters, 4 April 1849. 

Thomas (F. W.) See : Thomas E. 

Thorbecke (E.) Homage to Mendelssohn ; a scherzo for the piano forte, by 
E. Thorbecke: 4to 7p — Baltimore, published by George Wil- 
lig, Jr., 1849 ; deposited by George Willig, Jr./ 4 April 1849. 

Tripp (L.) See : Hill, (U. C.) 

Tuckerman (S. p.) Bancroft (S. A.,) and Oliver (H. K.) The National 
Lyre, a new collection of sacred music, consisting of psalm and 
hymn tunes, with a choice selection of sentences, anthems and 
chants ; designed for the use of choirs, congregations and sing- 
ing schools : 8vo long, 160p — Boston, qublished by Wilkins. 
Carter & Co., 1848 : deposited by Wilkins, Carter & Co., o 
January 1848. 

" Uncle Ned," an Ethiopian melody, arranged by E. S. Chandler : 4to 2p 
— Cincinnati, published by Peters, Field & Co. ; deposited by 
Mason, Colburn & Co., 6 August 1849. 

•■'L'ncle Ned," a popular Ethiopian song, arranged for the guitar by F. W"ei- 
land : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by William C. Peters, 
1849 ; deposited by Lee & W^alker, 6 August 1849. 

Von La Haciik (Thcodor) Locomotive Polka, composed for the piano 
forte by Theodor Yon La Hache ; 4to 4p — New York, pub- 
lished "by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by William 
Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 

Warren (George W.) Broadway Waltzes. No. 1, composed for the piano 
forte by George W. Warren : 4to 5p — New York, published 
by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & 
Son, 14 December 1849. 

Watson (Henry F.) Sec : Balmer (Charles.) 

Watson (Henry C.) Asthore Macree, a song for my own love ; words from 



233 [ 1 ] 

the Dublin Nation, music by Henry C. Watson : 4to 5p — 
New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849 ; deposited 
by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 

Webb (George James) See : Mason (Lowell.) 

Weiland (F.) See : Uncle Ned. 

WoLsiEFFER (P. M.) Practical instruction in Singing, for schools and singing 
classes, complete in four parts, Part 1. By P. M. Wolsietfer : 
4to long, 19p— Philadelphia, published by P. M. WolsiefFer 
and M. H. Traubel, 1849 ; deposited by P. M. Wolsieffer and 
M. H. Traubel, 12 August 1849. 

Woodbury (I. B.) The Fisherman's Song, poetry by W. B. I., music com- 
posed by I. B. Woodbury, [being No. 5, of] Lays of New 
England : 4to Op — New York, published by William Hall & 
Son 1849 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 
1849. 

Good Night, duett, words by W. B. I., music composed 
by I. B. Woodbury, [being No. 6 of] Lays of New England: 
4to 5p — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1849^ 
deposited by William Hall & Son, 14 December 1849. 



PJRT III— LIST OF MAPS, CHARTS, PRIJVTS AJYD LABELS. 



Andrews (S. P.) and Boyle (A. F.) Elements of Phonography : chart No. 
2 ; deposited by Andrews & Boyle. 

Compendium of Phonography : [ one sheet ; ] deposited 
by S. P. Andrews & A. F. Boyle. 

Badlam (Otis G.) The Common-School writing-book. In five numbers — 
New York, published by Collins & Brother, 1848 ; deposited 
by O. G. Badlam. 

Bonner (William G.) Pocket map of the State of Georgia — Published at 

Milledgeville, 1848. 
Breese (Samuel, A. M.) Harper's Cereographic map of the United States 

and Canada, showing the canals, railroads and principal stage 

routes — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1847 ; 

deposited by Harper & Brothers. 
Bruff (J. G.) A correct map of the seat of War in Mexico — New York, 

published by J. Disturnell, 1847. 

Map of the Valley of Mexico, and the surrounding mountauis 
— New York, published by J. Disturnell, 1847. 

Cole (James) Time's Day Book. 

Crozet (C.) a map of the Internal Improvements of Virginia, prepared 
under a resohition of the General Assembly, adopted March l-l, 
1848. Engraved by P. S. Duvall, Phil;ulel])hia : deposited by 
Claudius Crozet. 



[ 1 ] 234 

DiSTURNELL (John) United States National Register, 1850 : New York, 
pul)lislied by J. Disturnell, 1849 ; deposited by J. Disturnell, 

Doty (H. H.) Susannah and the Elders : drawn on stone by N. Sarony ; 
the orio-inal by Louis Blanc — Philadelphia, published by H. 
H. Doty, 1849 ; deposited by H. H. Doty. 

Fac Simile of the Autographs of the merchants and other citizens of Phi- 
ladelphia, as subscribed to the non-importation resolutions, Oc- 
tober 25, 1765 : one sheet — Philadelphia, published and depo- 
sited by Thomas Fisher. 

Fisher (Samuel B.) and Sheafer (P. W.) Map of the first and second 
anthracite coal fields in Pennsylvania ; embracing Schuylkill 
county, and parts of Carbon, Luzerne, Columbia, Northumber- 
land, Dauphin and Lebanon counties — Philadelphia, published 
by Robert P. Smith ; deposited by Robert P. Smith. 

FiTcii (George W.) Mapping cards, Nos. 1, 4, and 5. Brooklyn, published 
by A. M. Wilder, 1848 ; deposited by A. M. Wilder & Co., 
and George W. Fitch. 

Fowle (William B.) Outline maps, viz : Asia, Africa, Europe, North Ame- 
rica, South America, United States, Eastern Hemisphere, and 
Western Hemisphere ; deposited by William B. Fowle. 

GoLDTHWAiT (J. H.) Railroad map of New England, and eastern New York. 
Compiled from the most authentic sources, 1849 : deposited by 
J. H. Goldthwait. 

Griffith (Francis P.) A chart, containing the names of Senators of the 
United States, from every State in the Union, from the com- 
mencement of the Federal Government to the present period ; 
also, the names of Presidents and Vice Presidents, Cabinet offi- 
cers, &c. ; Columbus, published by F. W. Murray & Co., 1849 ; 
deposited by F. P. Griffith. 

Hubbard (Edwin) The Ancestral Register, [chart] ; published by Kellog 
& Hubbard, Hartford, Connecticut. 

Jewett (Dr. Stephen,) Celebrated health restoring bitters, [label] ; depo- 
sited l)y S. Jewett & Co. 

Highly celebrated pulmonary Elixir, &c., [label] ; de- 
posited by S. Jewett & Co. 

Highly and justly celebrated strengthening plaster, 
&c., [label,] deposited by S. Jewett & Co. 
Johnson (D. G.) Colton's illustrated and embellished steel plate map of the 
World, on Mercator's projection, comjiiled from the latest and 
most authentic sources — New York, pul)lished by J. H. Colton, 
1849 ; deposited by J. H. Colton. 

Lapham (J. A.) Map of the State of Wisconsin, compiled from the latest 
authorities — Milwaukie, Wisconsin, 1849 ; deposited by J. A. 
Lapham. 

Map of Mexico : Mapa de los Estados Unidos de Mejico, Segun la organi- 
zado y definido por los varias actas del Congreso de dicha Re- 
publica ; y construido por las autoridades — Neuva York, 1847; 



235 [ 1 ] 

revised edition, published by J. Disturnell ; deposited l)y J. Dis- 
turnell. 

Map of the countries embraced within the travels of St. Paul ; deposited bv 
A. M. Wilder & G. W. Fitch. 

Map of the States of Missouri, Illinois, Iowa and Wisconsin; the territory oi 
Minnesota, and the nrineral lands of Lake Supeiior — Philadel- 
phia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 1849 ; depo- 
sited by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co. 

Musury's compound extract of Sarsaparilla and Wau-a-hoo, [label.] 

Murray (H. C.) Original patterns for Gothic railings. No. 1, Farnandis' 
fancy ; No. 4, Jones' fancy. 

Olney (J.) Outline maps for common schools, viz : North America, South 
America, World, Europe, Asia, Africa, United States, Atlas 
folio — New York, published by Pratt, W^oodford & Co., 1847 ; 
deposited by J. Olney, 

Otley (J. W.) and Whiteford (R.) Map of Burlington county, N. Jersey, 
from original surveys — Philadelphia, published by Smith & 
Wistar, 1849. % 

And Keily (J.) Map of Mercer county. New Jersey, en- 
tirely from original surveys — Camden, published by Lloyd Van 
Der Veer ; deposited by Robert P. Smith. 

Rea (Samuel M.) and Price (Jacob) Map of New Castle County, Dela- 
ware, from original surveys : Philadelphia, published ))y. Smith 
& Wistar, 1848 ; deposited by Robert P. Smith. 

Sidney (J. C.) Map of twelve miles around New York, with the names of 
property holders, &c. From entirely new and original surveys : 
Philadelphia, engraved on stone by N. Friend, printed by H. 
Camp ; depositetl by J. C. Sidney. 

Map of the City of Trenton, New Jersey, from actual sur- 
veys : Philadelphia, published by M. Dripps, 1849 ; deposite<l 
by M. Dripps. 

Map of the City of Philadelphia, together with all the 
surrounding districts, including Camden, New Jersey : Philadel- 
phia, published by Smith & Wistar, 1849 ; deposited by Robert 
P. Smith. 

Smith (J. Calvin) Map of the State of New York, showing the boundaries 
of counties and townships, the location of cities, towns and 
villages ; the courses of railroads, canals and stage roads: New 
York, published by J. Disturnell, 1848 ; deposited by J. Dis- 
turnell. 

Stansbie (Alexander C.) Kelley (James) and (Rea Samuel M.) A Map 
of the counties of Salem and Gloucester, New .Jersey, from ori- 
ginal surveys : Philadelphia, ))ublished by Smith (Sc Wistar, 
1849 ; deposited by Smith & Wistai-. 

Stebbins (L.) a new system of Public Advertising, designed to occupy the 
back, border, and blaidc jdaces of maps and other prints, not 
coming under the head of general news prints; a chart. 

Stevens (Enos) Diagram of the Solar System, adapted to Stevens' rudi- 



[ I ] 236 

merits of Astronomy : Boston, 1849 ; deposited by E. Stevens. 

Phrenological Chart. Lithographed by Tappan & Bradford, 
Boston ; deposited by Enos Stevens. 

Students Magazine, (in raised letters for the use of the blind) : 8 pages 
folio. 

Table of Wages from one to thirty days, at from eight to forty dollars per 
month. Buffalo, published by L. Danforth & Co. 

Tellers (C. W.) System of cutting [Garments] ; chart. 

Temperance Tabula and Family Pledge : engraved by E. Chase, 1848 ; 
deposited by Orlando Lund. 

Webster (E. L.) The Dress Maker's Chart ; deposited by E. L. Webster, 
1849. 

Winchester (George W.) Drawing and Writing Cards, accompanied by a 
key with ample directions; in four parts ; part 1, two copies, 
atlas folio : Hartford, published by H. S. Parsons & Co. ; de- 
posited by G. W. Winchester, 1849. 



APPENDIX TO LIBRARIAN'S REPORT 

A'O. 2. 



COPY-RIGHT PUBLICATIONS FOR 1850. 



LIST of Books, Maps, Charts, Musical Compositions, Sfc, delivered 
to the Librarian of the Sinithsiynian Institxition, from January 1, 
to December '^1, 18-50; in compliance with the following require- 
ment of the Act of Congress, approved August 10, 1846, establishing 
the Smithsonian Institution : 

" Section 10. And be it further enacted. That the author or proprietor 
of any Book, Map, Chart, Musical Com})osition, Print, Cut, or Engraving, 
for which a copy right shall be secured under the existing acts of Congress, 
or those which shall hereafter be enacted respecting copy rights, shall, 
within three months from the publication of said Book, Map, Chart, Musical 
Composition, Print, Cut, or Engraving, deliver, or cause to be delivered, 
one copy of the same to the Librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, and 
one copy to the Librarian of Congress Library, for the use of the said 
Libraries." 



Part I.— BOOKS. 
'' II. — MUSICAL COMPOSITIONS. 
" HI. — MAPS, PRINTS, &.c. &c. 



237 [ 1 ] 



PART L — BOOKS. 

Abbott (Jacob,) History of William the Con((uei'er. By Jacob Ab!)ott; with 
engravings: IGmo 291p — New York, ])ublishecl by Harper 
& Brothers ; deposited by Harper & Brothers, Marcli 1850. 

History of Cyrus the Great, by Jacob Abbott; with engra- 
vings : lOmo 289p — New York, pul)Kshed by Harper & 
Brothers, ISoO : deposited by Harper it Brothers, 20 May 1850. 
History of Darius the Great, by Jacol) Abbott; with en- 
gravings : 12mo 28()p — New York, pubhshed by Harper & 
Brothtn-s, 82 Cliff street, 1850 ; deposited by Harper & Bro- 
thers, 20 August 1850. 

History of Xerxes the Great, by Jacob Abbott; with en- 
gravings : IGmo 302p — New York, Harper & Brothers, pub- 
lishers, 82 Cliif street ; deposited by Harper & Brothers, 19 
October 1850. 
Abbott (Charles) Lord Ta^erden, Chief Justice of England ; a treatise of 
the law relative^to merchant ships and seamen, in five parts ; 
1, of the owners of merchant ships; 2, of the persons employed 
in the navigation of merchant ships and the conveyance of pas- 
sengers therein ; 3, of collision ; 4, of the carriage of goods 
in merchant ships ; 5, of the wages ofmerchan' seamen. By 
Charles [Abbott,] Lord Tenterden, late Chief Justice of England. 
Eighth edition. By William Shee. Sixth American edition: with 
the notes of Mr. Justice Story and additional annotations. By J. 
C. Perkins, Esq. : 8vo large, 1008p — Boston, published by 
Charles C. Little & James Brown ; deposited by Little & Brown. 
19 July 1850. 
ACKERMAN (A) First book of Natural History, by A. Ackerman : 12mo 
28(3p — New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 60 John 
street ; deposited by A. Ackerman, 17 December 1850. 
Adams (John) The w^orks of John Adams, second President of the United 
States : with a life of the author, notes and illustrations, by his 
grandson, Charles Francis Adams. Volume 2 : 8vo 542p — 
Boston : Charls C. Little & James Brown, 1850 ; deposited by 
Charles C. Little & James Brown, 13 November 1850. 
Agassiz (Louis) Lake Superior : its physical character, vegetation and ani- 
mals, compaied with those of other and similar regions. By 
Louis Agassis. With a narrative of the tour by J. Elliot Cabot, 
and contributions by other scientific gentlemen. Elegantly illus- 
trated : Svo large, 428p — Boston, published by Gould, Ken- 
dall & Lincoln, 1850 ; deposited by Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, 
15 March 1850. 
Alexander (J. H.) Universal Dictionary of Weights and Measures, ancient 
and modern; reduced to the standards of the United Stales of 
America. By J. H. Alexander : Svo large, 158p — Baltimore, 
William Minifie & Co., 1850 ; deposited by William Minilie 28 
September 1850. 



[ 1 ] 238 

Alexander (J. A.) See : Bible. The Psalms translated and explained by 
J. A. Alexander. 

Allyn (Avery) A Ritual of Freemasonry, illustrated by numerous engra- 
vings. To which is added a key to the Phi Beta Kappa, the 
Orange, and Odd Fellows Societies; with notes and remarks by 
Avery Allyn, K. R. C, K. T. K. M., &c. : 12mo 269p -- 
New York, William Gow^ans, 1850 ; deposited by William 

Gowans 26 December 1850. 

Alphabet made easy, or one step at a Time ; by Mrs. C. M. Peat : 12mo 
57p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston ; depo- 
sited by C. M. Peat, 14 February 1850. 

Alsop (Samuel) Key to first Lessons in Algebra; b^^ Samuel Alsop: 12mo 
73p — Philadelphia, published by E. C. & J. Biddle ; 1850, de- 
posited by E. C. & J. Biddle, 30 April 1850. 

American Fowl Breeder ; (The) containing full information on Breeding, 
rearing, diseases, and management of domestic poultry ; also in- 
structions concerning the choice of pure stock, crossing, capon- 
izing, &c., &c. ; with engravings. **By an association of prac- 
tical breeders : 12mo 91p — Boston, published John P. Jewett ; 
deposited by Joel Nourse, 14 March 1850. 

Anderson (John J.) See : Davenport (Bishop.) 

Angel Voices ; or, words of counsel for overcoming the world. After the 
mode of Richter's Best Hours. Second edition revised and en- 
larged: 16mo 117p — Boston published by Ticknor, Reed &. 
Fields, 1850 ; deposited by William Treat of Buffalo, 8 Janu- 
ary 1850. 

Angell (Joseph K.) A treatise on the law of water Courses, with an ap- 
pendix, containing statutes of flowing and forms of declarations; 
by Joseph K. Angell. Fourth edition revised, and containing 
references to many new adjudged cases : 8vo 661p Boston, pub- 
lished by Little & Brown, 1850 ; deposited by Joseph K. An- 
gell, 18 July 1850. 

Archbold (Miss Ann) A book for the Married and Single, the grave and 
the gay : and especially designed for steamboat passengers. By 
Miss Ann Archbold : 16mo 192p — East Plainfield, Ohio, 
printed at the ofhce of the "Practical Preacher," N. A. Baker, 
printer, 1850 ; deposited by Miss Ann Archbold, 23 Decem- 
ber, 1850. 

Arthur (T. S.) Golden Grains from Life's Harvest Field. By T. S. Arthur: 
12mo 240p — Philadelphi;i, published by J. W. Bradley, 1850; 
deposited by J. W. Bradley, 29 June, 1850. 

Illustrated Temperance Tales; by T. S. Arthur ; with an 
autobiography and portrait of the author : 8vo 320p — Phila- 
delphia, published by J. W. Bradley, 1850 ; deposited by J. 
W. Bradley, 29 June 1850 

Sketches of Life and Character; by T. S. Arthur. Illustra- 
ted with sixteen engraAnngs and a portrait of the author : 8vo 
416p — Philadelphia published by J. W. Bradley, 1850 ; depo- 
gited by T. S. Arthur, 3 January 1850. 



239 [ 1 ] 

Baker (B. F.) ami Southard (L. H.) The Haydn collection of church 
music ; selected and arranged from the works of Haydn, Han- 
del Winter, Weber, Mendelssohn, Cherubini, Mozart, Beetho- 
ven, Paer, Rosini, and others ; together with many original 
compositions. By B. F. Baker and L. H. Southard : 8vo long, 
3o2p — Boston, published by Charles H. Pierce, 1850 ; depos- 
ited l)y B. F. Baker, 17 September 1800. 

Baltimore Olio and American Musical Gazette ; a monthly parlor compa- 
nion for the ladies, devoted chiefly to music, the arts and mu- 
sical intelligence generally ; vol. 1, No. 1 — 10 January ; Oc- 
tober 1850 : Baltimore ; published by W. C. Peters, 4to 12p : 
deposited by W. C. Peters, No 1, 18 January ; No. 2, 16 Feb- 
ruary ; No. 3, 15 March ; No. 4, 8 April; No. 5, 16 May : 
Nos. 6, 7 and 8, 6 August ; Nos. and 10, 16 October. 

Bar (The) of Iron ; or the danger of unsanctified Affliction ; a true story ; 
12mo 68p — Philadelphia, American Sunday School Union, 
1850 ; deposited by American Sunday School Union, 24 Au- 
gust 1850. 

Barbour (Oliver L.) Reports of cases in law and equity in the Supreme 
court of the State of New York. Vols 4 and 5. ]3y Oliver L. 
Barbour : 8vo large — Albany published by Gould Banks k. 
Gould, 1850 ; deposited by Gould, Banks & Gould, March 
29 1850. Vol5,8vo large, 732p — Alliany, Gould, Banks 8c 
Gould, 1850, deposited by Gould, Banks & Gould, 29- June 
1850. 

Barnes (Rev. Albert) Prayers for the use of Families, chiefly selected from 
various authors, with a preliminary essay; together with a se- 
lection of hymns. By Albert Barnes : 12mo 360p — Philadel- 
phia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 1850, depo- 
sited by Thomas, Comperthwait & Co., 23 February 1850. 

Barnum's American Museum, illustrated. A pictorial guide to that far 
famed establishment ; containing much interesting matter, and 
highly useful to visitors : 8vo — New York deposited by 
William Van Norden and Frank Leslie ; 12 August 1850. 

Barr (Robert M.) Pennsylvania State Reports, containing cases adjudged 
in the Supreme Court, during part of December term, 1848, 
and March term, and part of May term 1849. Volume 10. By 
Robert M. Barr, State Reporter : 8vo 559p — Philadelphia, 
published by T. & J. W. Johnson, 1849 ; deposited by T. 
& J. W. Johnson, 21 January 1850. 

Barrett (Solomon, Jr.) The Lingual Assistant: German, Spanish, French 
and English: comprising a complete set of rules for the correct 
pronunciation of the German, Spanish and French; a brief and 
compreliensive grammar, and a number of dialogues arranged 
as mercantile and business transactions; with an English trans- 
lation and a figured pronunciation by Solomon Barrett, Jr., 
Philologist, &c., &c., Philadelphia, jirinted by King & 13aird, 
1850; deposited by Solomon Barrett, Jr., 29 October 1850. 

Bartlett (W. H. C, LL. D.) Elements of Natural Philosophy, by W. 
H. C. Bartlett, LL. D. Section 1, mechanics, Svolarge, 632p 



[1] 



240 



— New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co. ; deposited by 
W. H. C. Bartlett, 11 October 1850. 

Beck (Theodric Romeyn) and (John E.) Elements of medicalJurisprudence, 
By Theodric Romeyn Beck, M. D., LL. D., and John B. Beck, 
M. D.; tenth edition, vol 1, 8vo 866p — Albany Little & Co., 
1850 : deposited by T. Romeyn Beck, 16 November 1850. 

Bedford (John W.) Bedford's Arithmetic ; the American Arithmetical In- 
vestigator ; in which the rudiments of numerical calculations are 
clearly exhibited, and rules educed ; also, several Arithmetical 
and Geometrical demonstrations peculiar to this work. The 
whole made familiar by the most practical examples, and a 
critical review of the sevei'al principles ; designed for the use 
of schools, and persons wishing to become acquainted Avith the 
science of Arithmetic. By John W. Bedford : 12mo 239p — 
Syracuse : published by Stoddard & Babcock, 1850 ; deposited 
by John W. Bedford, 25 January 1850. 

Bell (John, M. D.) Dietetical and Medical Hydrology. A treatise on 
Baths ; including cold, sea, warm, hot, vapor, gas, and mud 
baths ; also, on the watery regimerf, hydropathy, and pulmonary 
inhalation ; with a description of bathing in ancient and modern 
times. By John Bell, M. D., : 12mo fi58p — Philadelphia, Bar- 
rington & Haswell, 1850 ; deposited by John Bell, M. D., 18 
May 1850. 

Benedict (Erastus C.) The American Admiralty, its jurisdiction and prac- 
tice, with practical forms and directions. By Erastus C. Bene- 
dict : 8vo large, 661p — New York, pubHshed by Banks, Gould 
& Co., 1850 ; deposited by E. C. Benedict, 20 May 1850. 

Bennett (Emerson) The Prairie Flower, or adventures in the Far West, 
by Emerson Bennett, new edition, revised and corrected by the 
author, pamphlet, 8vo 120p — Cincinnati published by J. A. 
& U. P. James ; deposited by J. A. & U. P. James, 2 Decem- 
ber 1850. 

Bible — The Psalms translated and explained, by J. A. Alexander, Vol. 
1, 2, 3 : 12mo, vol. 1, 436p ; vol. 2, '349p ; vol. 3, 316p — 
New York Baker & Scribner, 1850 ; deposited by J. A. Alex- 
ander > vol. 1 and 2, 9 October 1850; vol. 3, 13 December 
1850. 

BiNN^s (John, late Alderman of Vv^ilnut ward, Philadelphia,) Justice or 
Magistrate's Daily Companion. A treatise on the office and du- 
ties of Aldermen and Justices of the Peace, in the Commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania ; including all the required forms of process and 
docket entries, and embodying not only whatever may be deem- 
ed valuable to justices of the peace, but to landlords, tenants 
and general agents, and making this volume what it purports 
to be, a safe legal guide for business men, by John Binns, the 
third edition, revised, corrected and greatly enlarged by 
Frederick C. Brightly, Esq. : 8vo large — Philadelphia pub- 
lished by James Kay, Jr. & Brother, 1850 ; deposited by 
James Kay, Jr. & Brother. 



241 [ 1 ] 

Bliss (Mrs.) The Practical Cook Book, containing upwards of one thou- 
sand receipts; consisting of directions for selecting, preparing 
and cooking all kinds of meats, fish, poultry and game, soups, 
broths, vegetables and salads; also, for making all kinds of 
■plain and fancy breads, pastries, puddings, cakes, creams, ices, 
jellies, preserves, marmalades, &c., &c., &c,, together with va- 
rious miscellaneous receipts, and numerous preparations for 
invalids. By Mrs. Bliss of Boston: 12rao 27op — Philadelphia, 
published by Lippincott, Grambo & Co., successors to tfrigg, 
Elliott & Co, 1850; deposited by Lippincott, Grambo & Co., 13 
December 18-50. 

Blunt (Edmund M.) The American Coast Pilot; containing directions for 
the principal harbors, capes, and headlands on the coasts of 
North and South America : describing the soundings, bearings 
of lighthouses and beacons from the rocks, shoals, ledges, 
&c., with the prevailing winds, setting of the currents, &c,, 
and the latitudes and longitudes of the principal harbors and 
capes; together with a tide table; by Edmund Blunt. Sixteenth 
edition, by E. & G. W. Blunt ; Svo G42p — New York, pub- 
lished by JEdmund and George W. Blunt, 1850 ; deposited by E. 
& G. W. Blunt, 28 October 1850. 

BoHN (Henry G.) Bohn's new hand book of Games : comprising whist, by 
Deschapelles, Mathews, Hoyle, Carleton ; draughts by Sturges 
& Walker; billiards by White and Bohn; edited by Henry G.. 
Bohn ; enlarged and improved by the introduction of several 
games, almost exclusively known in the United States : 12mo 
652p — Philadelphia, Henry F. Anners, 1850; deposited by 
Henry F. Anners, 7 November 1850. 

Boston Book (The) Being specimens of Metropolitan Literature : 12rao 
364p — Boston, published by Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 1850: 
deposited by Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 8 January 1850. 

Boyd (Rev. James Robert) See : Milton. 

Breban (James M.) Breban's Interest Tables. Tables exhibiting at a glance, 
the interest on any sum from one dollar to ten thousand dollars, 
for any number of days, from one day to three hundred and six- 
ty-six days, at 3, 3|, 4, 4|, 5, 5|, and 6 per cent., and also at 
any rate from 6 to 24 per cent., being the most correct and 
prompt manual of interest, for capitalists, bankers, merchants, 
conveyancers, treasury clerks, and men of business in all its de- 
partments: [by James H. Breban,] 12mo 3(36p — Philadel])hia 
published by James M. Breban, 1850 ; de])osited by J. M. lire- 
ban, 19 March 1850. 

Bright (John Edward, Esq.) A Treatise on the Law of Husband and 
Wife, as respects property, partly founded upon Roper's trea- 
tise, and comprising Jacob's notes and additions thereto. By 
John Edward Bright, Esq., of the Inner Temple, barrister at 
law ; with copious notes and references to the American decis- 
ions, by Ralph Lockwood, counsellor at law; in two volumes ; 
Svo: Vol 1, 577p : Vol 2, 680p— New York, Banks, Gould & 
Co., and Gould, Banks and Gould, Albany, 1850; deposited by 
Banks, Gould & Co., 19 November 1850. 
Mis.— 16. 



[ 1 ] 242 

Brightly (Frederick C.) See : Binns (John) 

Brittan (N.) and Sherwood (L. H.) The School Song and Hymn Book ; 
designed for general use in schools, academies and seminaries : 
edited by N. Brittan and L. H. Sherwood ; 12mo 386p — New 
York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co. ,1850 ; deposited by A^ 
S. Barnes & Co., 1 February 1850. 

Brown (James) An English Grammar, in three books ; developing the new 
science, made up of those constructive principles which form a 
sure guide in using the English Language ; but which are not 
found in the oldtlieory of English grammar. By James Brown. 
Book 1 : 12mo 116p — Philadelphia, published by John Tr 
Lange 1850 ; deposited by James Brown, 14 February 1850. 

No. 1. An Appeal from the absurdities and contradictions, 
which pervade and deform the old theory of English grammar, 
to the constructive principles of the English Language : by 
James Brown : 8vo 18p — Philadelphia, John T. Lange ; depo- 
sited by James Brown, 15 April 1850. 

An appeal from the absurdities and contradictions which 
pervade and deform the old theory of English grammar, to the 
true constructive principles of English language ; by James 
Brown : 8vo 209p — Philadelphia, published by J. T. Langey 
1850 ; deposited by James Brown, 27 August 1850. 

Browning (Colin Arrot, M. D.) The Convict Ship ; A narrative of the re- 
sults of Scriptural instruction and moral discipline on board the 
"Earl Grey " : by Colin Arrot Browning ; from the fourth 
English edition ; with a preface by Rev. James A. Fowles ; 
12mo 275p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 
1850 ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 26 March, 1850. 

Bryant (William Culien) Letters of a Traveller ; or, Notes of things seen 
in Europe and America. By William Culien Bryant. Second 
Edition: 12mo 442p — New York, George P. Putnam, 155 
Broadway, 1850 ; deposited by William Culien Bryant, 20 
August 1850. 

BuFFUM (E. Gould) Six months in the Gold Mines ; from a Journal of 
three years' residence in Upper and Lower California, 1847-8- 
9. By E. Gould Buffum, Lieutenant first Regiment New 
York Volunteers: 12mo 172p — Lea & Blanchard, Philadel- 
phia, publishers, 1850 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard, 19 Au- 
gust 1850. 
Bullions (Peter, D. D.) First Lessons in Greek, introductory to the Greek 
Grammar ; comprising an epitome of Greek Grammar exer- 
cises analytical and synthetical ; a series of reading lessons. 
Notes and a Lexicon. By Peter Bullions, D. D. ; 12mo 
204p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 
1850 ; deposited by Peter Bullions, 6 June 1850. 
BuRKiTT (Lemuel) and Read (Jesse,) A concise History of the Kehu- 
kce Baptist Association, from its original rise do'vs^n to 
1803. Wherein are shown its first constitution, increase, num- 
bers, principles, form of government, decorum, revolution, 
revivals, ministers, churches, confession of faith, times and 



243 [ 1 ] 

places when and where associations have heen hohlen, queries 
and their answers, and all other useful articles relative to 
church history. By Elders Lemuel Burkitt and Jesse Read, 
Ministers of the Gospel in Northampton and Halifax counties, 
North Carolina. Revised and improved hy Henry L. Burkitt : 
16mo 3olp — Philndelphia, Lippincott, Grambo & Co, 1850 : 
deposited by Henry L. Burkitt, 22 Au<Tiist liSoO. 
Burleigh (Joseph Bartlett) Progressive Practical Questions ; designed to 
accompany any Arithmetic. In four parts. By Joseph Bart- 
lett Burleigh. Parts 1 and 2 : 12mo71p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by Lippincott, Grambo & Co., 18-30 ; deposited by J. 
B. Burleigh, 20 February 1850. 

BuRNAP (George W.) Popular objections to Unitarian, Christianity con- 
sidered and answered in seven discourses. By George W. Bur- 
nap, Pastor, First Independent church of Baltimore : 12mo 166p 
Boston, William Crosby & H. P. Nichols, 1850 ; deposited b> 
Crosby & Nichols, 24 September 1850. 

BuRNHAM (A. A.) Festina Woodman, the Wonderful Adventurer. By A. 
A. Burnham ; 8vo 60p [pamphlet] — Boston, Redding & Co., 
1850 ; deposited by A. A. Burnham, 6 April 1850. 

BuRROWEs' Piano Forte Primer, containing the rudiments of Music, calcu- 
lated either for private tuition or teaching in classes. Revised 
and enlarged with additions and alterations by W. C. Peters: 
12mo 58p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 
1849 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. 

BusHNELL (Horace) The Fathers of New England. An oration delivered 
before the New England society of New York, December 21, 
1849, and published at their request. By Horace Bushnell : 
pamphlet, 8vo 44p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam : 
deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850. 

Cabinet of IModern Art. A collection of twenty-five subjects from modern 
masters, engraved in the highest style of Mezzotinto. Illustra- 
ted by appropriate articles in prose and verse : 8vo 264p — 
Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 1851 ; depo- 
sited by E. H. Butler & Co., 7 December 1850. 

Canfield (Russcl, L. S. P.) Practical Physiology, being a synopsis of Lec- 
tures on Sexual physiology, including intermarriage, organiza- 
tion, intercourse, and their general and particular phenomena. 
By Russel Canfield, L. S. P. : 16mo 142p — Philadelphia, J. 
Wixson & Co., 1850 ; deposited by R. Canfield, 31 September 
1850. 

Capron (Eliab W.) and Barron (Henry D.) Singular Revelations, Ex- 
planation and History of the Mysterious Communion with Spi- 
rits, comprehending the Rise and Progress of the mysterious 
noises in western New York, generally received as spiritual 
communicntions. vSecond Edition, revised and enlarged, with 
additional proof. By Eliab W. Capron and Henry D. Barron: 
8vo 95p — Auburn, N(;w York, Capron & JJarron, 1850 ; de- 
posited by Capron & Barron, 12 August 1850. 

Carpenter (William H.) Ruth Emsley, th^ "R^^+^-othed Maiden. A tale of 



[ 1 ] 244 

the Virginia Massacre. By William H. Carpenter, Esq,, au- 
thor of " Clairborne, the Rebel," &c. Complete in one vol- 
ume : 8vo 130p — Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, 1850 ; 
deposited by A. Hart, 10 August 18o0. 

Cary (S. F., M. W. p.) The National Temperance Offering, and Sons and 
Daughters of Temperance Gift. Edited by 8, F. Cary, M. 
W. P., of the Sons of Temperance of North America : 8vo 
large, 320p — New York, published by R. Vandien, 1850 ; 
deposited by Richard Vandien, 8 September 1850. 

Cazeaux (P.) A Theoretical and Practical treatise on Midwifery, including 
the diseases of Pregnancy and Parturition. By P. Cazeaux. 
Adopted by the Royal Council of Public Instruction : translated 
from the second French edition, with occasional notes and a 
copious index. By Robert O. Thomas, M. D. With one hun- 
dred and seventeen illustrations : 8vo large, 765p — Philadelphia, 
published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850 ; deposited by Lind- 
say & Blakiston, 14 February 1850. 

Chase (Lucien B.) History of the Polk administration. By Lucien B. 
Chase, a member of the twenty-ninth and thirtieth Congress : 
8vo large, 512p — '- New York, published by George P. Putnam, 
1850 ; deposited by Lucien B. Chase, 20 August 1850. 

Chauvenet (William, A. M.) A treatise on plane and spherical Trigono- 
metry. By William Chauvenet, A. M. : 8vo large, 25Gp — 
Philadelphia, published by Henry Perkins, 1850 ; depositecl by 
William Chauvenet, 7 June 1850. 

Christiana and her Children ; or, the second part of Cottage Lectures on 
Pilgrim's Progress ; designed for family and cottage reading : 
12mo- 372p — Philadelphia, American Sunday-School Union, 
1850 ; deposited by American Sunday School-Union, 24 Au- 
gust 1850. 

Christmas Blossoms and New Years' Wreath, for 1851. By Uncle Tho- 
mas : 12mo 256p — Philadelphia, published by E. H.Butler 
& Co., 1851 ; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co., 7 December 
1850. 

Tribute (The) and New Year's Gift : A Souvenir for 1851 : 
12mo 329p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 
1851 ; deposited by E. H. Butler &Co.,' 7 December 1850. 

Churchill (Fleetwood, M. D., &c.) On the Diseases of Infants and Chil- 
dren. By Fleetwood Churchill, M. D., &c. : 8vo large, 636p 
— Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1850; deposited 
by Lea & 131anchard, 5 February 1850. 

City Characters ; or, Familiar Scenes in Town. Illustrated with twenty- 
four designs : 16mo — Philadelphia, George S. Appleton ; de- 
posited by George S. Appleton, 2 October 1850. 

Claggett (R., a. M.) The American Expositor ; or. Intellectual Definer. 
Designed for the Use of Schools. By R. Claggett, A. M. 
New and revised Edition : 16mo 190p — New York, Cady & 
Burgess, 1850 ; deposited by Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, 17 
December 1850. 



245 [ 1 ] 

Claggett (R., a. M.) Elocution made easy; containing Rules and Selec- 
tions for Declamation and Reading, with Figures illustrative 
of Gesture. By R. Claggett, A. M. Stereotype Edition : 
12mo 167p — New York, Cady & Burgess, 1848 ; deposited 
by Paine & Burgess, 17 December I8o0. 

Clemen (Robert) Geschichte der Inquisition in Spanien, von Robert Cle- 
men. Erster Band : 8vo 400p — Columbus, Ohio, gedruckt bie 
Scott u. Bascom, 1850 : deposited by R. Clemen, 19 Octo- 
ber 1850. 

Clerke (Thomas W.) A Digest of the Reports of cases, determined in the 
Supreme Court of Judicature, and the court for the Correction 
of Errors, of the State of New York ; together with the re- 
ported cases of the Superior court for the City and County of 
New York, from the organization of said courts ; including 
Coleman's cases, Caines' reports, 3 vols ; Caines' cases in Error, 
2 vols; Johnson's cases, 3 vols; Johnson's reports, 20 vols ; 
Cowden's reports, 9 vols ; Wendell's reports, 26 vols ; Hill's 
reports, 7 vols ; Denio's reports 5 vols ; Barton's Law reports, 
4 vols; Comstock's reports, 1 vol; Hall's reports, 2 vols; 
Sandford's reports, 1 vol. ; Anthon's nisi prius. By Thomas 
W. Clerke, Counsellor at Law : revised and continued to the 
present time. By William Hogan, Counsellor at Law. In two 
volumes, [bound in four] : 8vo vol 1, 1331p ; vol 2, 1490p — 
New York, Banks, Gould & Co. : Albany, Gould, Banks & 
Gould, 1850 ; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co., 19 November 
1850. 

CoATES (Reynell, M. D.) Leaflets of Memory ; an illuminated Annual for 
1851. Edited by Reynell Coates, M. D. : 8vo 312p — Phila- 
delphia, published byE. H. Butler & Co., 1851 ; deposited by 
E. H. Butler & Co.,' 7 December 1850. 

Cobb (Joseph B.) The Creole ; or, siege of New Orleans, an Historical ro- 
mance, founded on the events of 1814-15. By Joseph B. 
Cobb. Complete in one volume : 8vo 131p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by A. Hart, 1850 ; deposited by A. Hart, 27 April 1850. 

CoLBURN (Warren, A. M.) Colburn's First Lessons. Intellectual Arithme- 
tic, upon the Inductive method of Instruction. By Warren 
Colburn, A. M. New Edition. Revised and Improved : 16 
mo 160p— Boston, published by W. J. Reynolds & Co., 1850; 
deposited by W. J. Reynolds & Co., 9 May 1850. 

CoLTON (Rev. Walter) Deck and Port ; or, Incidents of a Cruise in the 
United States Frigate Congress to California, with sketches of 
Rio Janeiro, Valparaiso, Lima, Koholula and San Francisco. 
By Rev. Walter Colton, U. S. N. : 12mo 408p — New York, 
published by A. S. Barnes, & Co. ; deposited by A. S. Barnes 
& Co., 20 April 1850. 

Comer (George N.) Writing without a Master ; Six lessons on Writing. 
With plates by which persons may instruct themselves in a 
beautiful and easy style of hand writing, so essential for busi- 
ness or correspondence, without the aid of a master. By 
George N. Coiner, Accountant : 12mo pamphlet, Boston, pub- 



[1] 



246 



lished by George N. Comer ; deposited by George N. Comer, 
28 September 1850. 

Common School Journal (The) New Series; for the year 1849, volmne 11, 
from the commencement, and volume 1, of the new series. 
Edited by William B. Fowle ; 8vo 384p — Boston, published 
by Lemuel N. Ide, 1849 ; deposited by WilHam B. Fowle, 27 
March 1850. 

Comprehensive Tables of Interest, showing the interest at six, seven, eight 
and ten per cent, per annum, on any sum from one dollar to 
twenty-thousand dollars, from one day to thirty days, one 
month to twelve months, and one year to three years inclusive. 
To which is added a calender, by which may be ascertained the 
day of the week on which any date in the years 1851 to 
i860, inclusive will occur, and also a Time Table : 32mo — 
Philadelphia, published by Matthew T. Miller, 1850 ; deposited 
by Matthew T. Miller, 9 October 1850 

Comstock (J. L., M. D.,) The Young Botanist; being a treatise on the 
Science ; prepared for the use of persons just commencing the 
study of plants. By J. L. Comstock, M. D. Third Edition : 
12mo 243p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & 
Co., 1850 ; deposited by J. L. Comstock, 6 May 1850. 

Primary Lessons in Natural Philosophy, designed 
for Common Schools, and as an introduction to the Author's 
System of Natural Philosophy. By J. L. Comstock, M. D. : 
] Gmo 224p — New York, published by Pratt, Woodford & 
Co., 1850 ; deposited by J. L. Comstock, 6 May 1850. 

Comstock's Phonetic Magazine : volumes 1 and 2 ; [Vol. 1, comprising 
Nos. 1 to 12 inclusive, from September 1846 to August 1847, 
inclusive ; Vol. 2, comprising Nos. 1 to 12, from September 
1847, to August 1848, inclusive] : 8vo 2S8p — Philadelphia, 
published by A. Comstock, M. D. ; deposited by A. Comstock, 
28 September, 1850. 

Comstock (George F.) Reports of Cases, argued and determined in the 
court of Appeals of the State of New York ; with notes, re- 
ferences, and an index. By George F. Comstock. Little & 
Go's. Official Edition. Vol. 3, Part 1 : 276p 8vo — Albany, 
Little & Company, 1850 ; deposited by Christopher Morgan, 
Secretary of State, in trust for the benefit of the people of the 
State of New York, 12 November 1850. 

CoNCLiN (George) A book for all Travelers ; Conclin's new river Guide, or, 
a Gazetteer of all the towns on the Western waters ; containing 
sketches of the cities, towns, and countries bordering on the 
Ohio and Mississippi rivers, and their principal tributaries ; 
together with their population, products, commerce, &c., &c., 
in 1848 ; and many interesting events of History, connected 
with them ; compiled from the latest and best authority, with 
44maps : 8vo 128p — Cincinnati, published by H. S. & J. Ap- 
plegate, 1850 ; deposited by George Conclin, 13 Feb. 1850. 

CooN (Reune R.) The doctrine of Future and Endless Punishment, logically 
proved, in a critical examination of such passages of Scripture, 



247 [ 1 ] 

as relate to the final destiny of man. By Reune R. Coon: 
12mo 368p — Cincinnati, published by J. A. & U. P. James, 
1800 ; deposited by J. A. & U. P. James, 27 December 1850, 

Cooper (J. Fenimore) The ways of the Hour ; a tale. By the author of 
"The Spy," "The Red Rover," &c. [J. F. Cooper]: 12mo 
512p — New York, publislied by G. P. Putnam, 1850 ; depo- 
sited by J. F. Cooper, 29 April "1850. 

CoPWAY (G.) The Ojibway Conquest ; a tale of the Northwest. By Kah- 
ge-ga-gah-bowh, or, G. Copway, Chief of the Ojibway nation; 
12mo 91p — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 1850; 
deposited by G. Copway, 20 August 1850. 

Cross (Jeremy L.) The true Masonic Chart, or, Hieroglyphic Monitor ; 
containing all the emblems explained in the degrees of entered 
apprentice, fellow craft, master mason, mark master, past mas- 
ter, most excellent master, royal arch, royal master, and select 
master ; designed and duly arranged agreeably to the lectures, 
by R. W. Jeremy L. Cross, G. L. To which are added illus- 
trations, charges, songs, &c., with additions and emendations ; 
also a History of Free Masonry, by a brother. Sixth and ste- 
reotype Edition. Two copies : 12mo 342p — published by 
the Author, New York, 1846; deposited by the author, 7 May 
1850. 

The Templar's Chart, or, Hieroglypic Monitor ; con- 
taining all the emblems and hieroglypics explained in the val- 
iant and macynanimous orders of kniijhts of the red cross, 
knights templars, and knights of Malta ; designed and duly 
arranged agreeably to the mode of work and lecturing. By 
Jeremy L. Cross. To which are added lessons, exhortations, 
prayers, charges, songs, &c. Second Edition, with improve- 
ments. Two copies : 12mo 223p — ])ublished by the Au- 
thor, New York, 1845 ; deposited by Jeremy L. Cross, 7 
May 1850. 

Crovvell (William) The Church Member's Hand Book ; a guide to the 
Doctrines and practice of Baptist churches. By William 
Crowell : 12mo 140p — Boston, published by Gould, Kendall 
& Lincoln, 1850; deposited by Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, 15 
March 1850. 

Cruiksiiank (J. & A.) Sabbath School Gems of Music and Poetry ; de- 
signed expressly for the Sabbath school. By J. & A. Cruik- 
shank : 16mo oblong, 144p — New York, published by A. S. 
Barnes & Co., 1850 ; deposited by J. & A. Cruikshank, 20 
April 1850. 

Cruise (William, Esq.) A Digest of the law of Real Property. By Wil- 
Cruise, Es(]., Barrister at Law ; revised and considerably en- 
larged by Henry Hopely White, Esq., Barrister at Law of the 
Middle Temple. Furtiier revised and abridged, with additions 
and notes for the use of American students, by Simon Green- 
leaf, LL. D., Emeritus Professor of Law in Ilaivard University. 
in seven volumes: vols 8, 4, 5, 6, 7 — l^osfon, Charles C. Lit- 
tle & James Brown^ 1850 : 8vo vol 3, 2G8p ; vol 4, 56()p ; vol 



[ 1 ] 248 

5, p ; vol 6, 589p ; vol 7, 327p ; deposited by Simon Green- 
leaf, LL. D. 

Curtis (George Ticknor) Equity Precedents ; supplementary to Mr. Jus- 
tice Story's treatise on Equity Pleadings. By George Ticknor 
Curtis : 8vo large, 562p — Boston, published by Little & Brown, 
1850 ; deposited by G. T. Curtis, 28 May 1850. 

CuRWEN (M. E.) Cases in the Ohio Reports, overruled, doubted, limited, 
and changed by legislation. By M. E. Curv^en, of the Cincin- 
nati bar : pamphlet, 8vo 45p — Cincinnnati, Wright, Ferris & 
Co., printers, 1850 ; deposited by M. E. Curwen, 29 Novem- 
ber, 1850. 

CusHiNG (Luther S.) Reports of Cases argued and determined in the Su- 
preme Judicial court of Massachusetts. By Luther S. Cush- 
ing. Vol. 1 : 8vo large, 624p — Boston, published by Little 
& Brown, 1850 ; deposited by Charles C. Little & James 
Brown, 20 May 1850. 

Cutler (Calvin, M. D.) First Book on Anatomy, Physiology and Hygi- 
ene, for Grammar Schools and Families. With eighty-three 
engravings. Stereotype Edition. By Calvin Cutler, M. D. : 
12mo 180p — Boston, published by Benjamin B. Mussey & Co., 
1850 ; deposited by C. Cutler, M. D., 25 February 1850. 

A Treatise on Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene: 
designed for colleges, academies, and families. By Calvin 
Cutler, M. D. With one-hundred and fifty engravings. Ste- 
reotype Edition : 12mo 458p — Boston, published by Benjamin 
B. Mussey & Co., 1850 ; deposited by C. Cutler, M. D. 

Dadd (George H., M. D.) The Advocate of Veterinary Reform, and out- 
lines of Anatomy and Physiology of the Horse ; also a general 
history of the rise and progress of the veterinary science in 
England, with practical observations on feeding, watering, 
grooming, shoeing, &c., &c. : written with a view of reforming 
the veterinary science, and teaching every man how to prevent 
disease in animals. Containing also a veterinary dictionary, 
selected from the works of R. White, V. S. of London, and 
adapted to the present state of the reformed practice in the 
United States, as practised by the author ; wdth selections from 
the works of Youatt, Percival, and Curtis, together with re- 
marks and observations on blood-letting and the use of poisons, 
showing their destructive tendency, &c. The fundamental 
principles taught in this work, are, that all medicine should be 
given with a view of aiding the vital powers, instead of depres- 
sing, as heretofore. By George H. Dadd, M. D., &c., &c. : 
8vo 307p — Boston, published by the author, 1850 ; deposited 
by the author, 3 September, 1850. 

Damrell & Moore and Cooledge (George.) The Boston Almanac for 
the year 1851. By Damrell & Moore and George Cooledge. 
[Number sixteen] : 12ino 192p — Boston, published by B. B. 
Mussey & Co., No. 29 Cornhill, and Thomas Groom, 82 State 
street ; deposited by Mrs. S. N. Dickinson, 31 December 1850. 

Da?"a (Richard Henry) Poems and Prose Writings. By Richard Henry 



249 [ 1 ] 

Dana. In two volumes : ISmo Vol. 1, 443p; Vol. 2, 440 — 
New York, published by Eaker & Scribner, 1850 ; depositee! 
by Richard H. Dana, 3 January 1850. 

Davenport (Bishop) Histoiy of the United States, containing all the 
events necessary to be committed to memory ; with the Decla- 
ration of Independence, the Constitution of the United States, 
and a Table of Chronology for the use of Schools. By Bish- 
op Davenport. A new edition, revised and improved, and 
brought up to the present time, by John J. Anderson : 12mo 
173p — Philadelphia, U. Hunt & Son, 1850 ; deposited by U. 
Hunt & Son, 3 August 1850. 

Da VIES (Charles, LL. D.) Grammar of Arithmetic ; or, an analysis of the 
language of figures and science of numbers. By Charles Da- 
vies, LL. D. : 12mo 144p — New York, published by A. S. 
Barnes & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Charles Davies, 1 February 
1850. 

Arithmetic, designed for Academies and Schools ; 
uniting the reasoning of the French with the practical methods 
of the English system. With full illustrations of the methods 
of cancellation. Improved Edition. By Charles Davies, LL. 
D. Fifty-second Edition : 12mo 360p — New York, published 
by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Charles Davies, 1 
February, 1850. 

The University Arithmetic, embracing the science 
of numbers and their numerous applications. By Charles Da- 
vies, LL. D. ; revised and improved edition : 12mo 408p — New 
York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1850 ; deposited by 
Charles Davies, 20 April 1850. 

Arithmetic, designed for academies and schools ; 
uniting the reasoning of the French with the practical methods 
of the English system, with full illustrations of the methods of 
cancellation; improved edition. By Charles Davies, LL. D. : 
12mo 360p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 
1850 ; deposited by Charles Davies, 20 May 1850. 

The logic and utility of Mathematics, with the best 
methods of Instruction explained and illustrated. By Charles 
Davies, LL. D. : 8vo 375p — New York, published by A. S. 
Barnes & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Charles Davies, 31 July 1850. 
Davis (Andrew Jackson) The Great Harmonia ; being a Philosophical re- 
velation of the Natural, Spiritual, and Celestial Universe. By 
Andrew Jackson Davis; vol.1: 12mo 45Gp — Boston, pub- 
■ iislied by B. B. Murphy & Co., 1850 ; deposited by A. J. Da- 
vis, 1 1 June 1850. 

Davis (Jonas Abraham) Auto-biography of Jonas Abraham Davis : a con- 
vert to Christianity from Judaism: J2mo 119p — Knoxville, 
Tennessee, printed at the Register office, 1850 ; deposited by 
Jonas Abraham Davis, 28 September 1850. 

Dean (Amos, Counsellor at Law and Professor of Medical Jurisprudence.) 
Principles of medical jurisprudence ; designed for the profes- 
sions ol Law and Medicine. By Amos Dean : 8vo 664r> — Al- 



[ 1 ] 250 

bany, Gould, Banks & Gould, 1850 ; deposited by Gould, Banks 
& Gould, 29 June 1850. 

Deems (James M.) Vocal Music simplified ; an elementary and progressive 
method of teaching vocal music in classes, with original exer- 
cises in Solfeggi and Vocalization. By James M. Deems ; [in 
two numbers, No. 1, treble ; No. 2, bass : 8vo bass,] 112p ; 
tenor, 112p — Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 1849 ; 
deposited by James M. Deems, 21 May 1850. 

Denio (Hiram) Report of cases argued and determined in the Supreme court 
and in the court for the Correction of Errors of the State of 
New York. By Hiram Denio, vol. 5 : 8vo 7o9p — Albany, 
published by Gould, Banks & Gould, 1850 ; deposited by 
Gould, Banks & Gould, 29 March 1850. 

Denman (J. S.) The Student's Primer, designed as a first book for children, 
an aid to parents and teachers in giving instructions in the first 
principles of Reading. By J. S. Denman: 12mo 48p — New 
York, published by Pratt, Woodford & Co. 1850 ; deposited by 
J. S. Denman, 6 June 1850. 

The Student's Speaker ; a new collection of original and se- 
lected pieces in prose, dialogues, and poetry, designed to fur- 
nish suitable pieces for speaking in schools ami public examina- 
tions. By J. S. Denman : 12mo 144p — New York, published 
by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1850 ; deposited by J. S. Denman, 
6 June 1850. 

Dorr (Rev. Benjamin, D. D.) The Churchman's Manual ; an exposition of 
the doctrines, ministry, and worship of the Protestant Episco- 
pal Church in the United States. By the Rev. Benjamin Dorr, 
D. D., Rector of Christ Church, Philadelphia. Third edition, 
revised and corrected : 12mo 339p — Philadelphia, published 
by Robert E. Peterson, 1850 ; deposited by Benjamin Dorr, 1 
August 1850. 

The Principal Prophecies and Types of the 
Old Testament, with their fulfilment ; arranged in the very 
words of Scripture, for the use of Sunday Schools. By the 
Rev. Beniamin Dorr, D. D., Rector of Christ Church, Phila- 
delphia : 12mo 72p — Philadelphia, published by Robert E. 
Peterson, 1850 ; deposited by Benjamin Dorr, D. D., 12 Au- 
gust 1850. 
Drake (Daniel, M. D.) A Systematic Treatise, historical, etiological, and 
practical, on the principal diseases of the interior valley of 
North America, as they appear in the Caucasian, African, In- 
dian, and Esquimaux varieties of its population. *By Daniel 
Drake, M. D. Two copies : 8 vo large, S78p — Cincinnati, 
published by Winthrop B. Smith & Co., 1850 ; deposited by 
Daniel Drake, M. D., 29 June 1850. 

DwiGHT (H. G. O.) Christianity revived in the East ; or, a narrative of the 
work of God among the Armenians of Turkey. By H, G. O. 
Dwight : 12mo 29{)p — New York, Baker & Scribner, 1850 ; 
deposited by Baker & Scribner, 9 October 1850. 

EcKFELDT (Jacob R.) and Du Bois (William E.) New Varieties of Gold 



251 [ 1 ] 

and Silver Coins, Counterfeit Coins, and Bullion; with Mint 
Values. By Jacob R. Eckfeldt and William E. Du ]iois, As- 
sayers of the Mint of the United States : 12mo 60p — Philadel- 
phia, published by the Authors, 1850. Deposited by Jacob R. 
Eckfeldt and William E. Du Bois, 13 December 1850. 
Ellet (Mrs. Elizabeth F.) Domestic History of the American Revolu- 
tion. ByMrs. Ellet: 12mo 308p — New York, Baker & 
Scribner ; deposited by Baker & Scribner, 9 October 1850. 

The Women of the Revolution. By Elizabeth 

F. Ellet. In 3 vols. vol. 3 : 12mo 396p— New York, published 
by Baker <& Scribner 1850 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner, 
2'5 April 1850. 

Family Pictures from the Bible. By Mrs. Ellet; 12mo 223p 
— New^ York, published by G. P. Putnam J 850; ileposited by 

G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850. 

Elliott (Rev. Charles, D. D.) Sinfulness of American Slavery, proved 
from its evil sources, its injustice; its w^rongs; its contrariety to 
many Scriptural commands, prohibitions and principles, and to 
the Christian spirit ; and from its evil effects ; together with 
observations on emancipation, and the duties of American citi- 
zens in regard to slavery. By Rev. Charles Elliott, D. D. 
In two volumes. Edited by Rev. B. F. Teff't : 12mo vol. 1 357p, 
vol 2 378p — Cincinnati, published by L. Swormstedt& Power, 
1850 ; deposited by L. Swormstedt & Power, 22 August 1850. 

Elwood (James L.) Elwood's Grain Tables : showing the value of bushels 
and pounds of different kinds of grain, calculated in Federal 
money : so arranged as to exhibit upon a single page, the value 
at a given price from ten cents to two dollars per bushel, of 
any quantity from one pound to 10,000 bushels ; with other 
convenient and useful tables connected with produce transac- 
tions. By James L. Elwood : 12mo 200p — Buffalo, published 
by George H. Derby & Co., 1850 ; deposited by James L. 
Elwood, G June 1850. 

EsLiNG (Mrs. C. H. W.) The broken Bracelet, and other poems. By Mi-s. 
C. H. W. Esling, (formerly Miss Waterman) : ]2mo 288p — 
Philadelphia, Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850 ; deposited by Lindsay 
& Blakiston, 1 November 1850. 

EvANGELiscHES (icsangbuch, oder eine Sammlung geistreicher Lieder zum 
Gebrauch der Evangelischen Gemeinschaft und aller heilsuch- 
euelen Seelen ; Vierte und verbesserte Auflage : New Berlin, 
Pa., Verlegt von Ileinrich Fischer fiir die Evangelische Ge- 
meinschaft, 1850; deposited l»y Henry Fisher, 12 April, 1850. 

Everett (Edward) Orations and speeches on various occasions. By Ed- 
ward Everett. In two volumes. Vol. 1, second edition; Vol. 
2, first edition : 8vo Vol. 1, GGOp ; Vol. 2, G73p — Boston, 
Charles C. Little &, James Brown, 1850 ; deposited by Charles 
C. Little & James Brown ; Vol. 1, 22 October ; Vol. 2, 17 
September, 1850. 

EvERY-BODv's Alinanac and Diary, for 1851. Containing a list of gov- 
ernment officers, commerce and resources of the Union, exports 



[ 1 ] 252 

of cotton, and general information for the merchant, tradesman 
and mechanic. Together with a complete memoranda for every 
day in the year : Philadelphia, George S. Appleton, 164 Ches- 
nut street, 1851 ; deposited by George S. Appleton, 2 October 

Fales (William R.) Memoir of William R. Tales, the Portsmouth Cripple. 
[Being an autobiography, with memoranda and letters, and a 
brief introduction] : 12mo lolp — Philadelphia, Lindsay & 
Blakiston, 1851 ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 18 De- 
cember 1850. 

Family and Ship Medicine Chest Companion : being a compendium of 
Domestic Medicine, Surgery and Materia Medica ; with direc- 
tions for the diet and management of the sick room ; particu- 
larly adapted for heads of families, captains of ships, travellers 
and overseers of plantations ; comprising plain rules for the 
administration of medicines, with their properties and doses. 
Also general rules on bathing, a plain description of the treat- 
ment of fractures and dislocations, &c., &c., and a concise 
account of the Asiatic and spasmodic cholera, with the remedies 
to be used in the absence of professional assistance. To which 
are added receipts of general utility for family purposes, selected 
from standard works by a practising physician : 12mo 416p — 
Philadelphia, Lindsay & Blakiston, 1851 ; deposited by Lind- 
say & Blakiston, 18 December 1850. 

FiNLEY (Rev. James B.) Memorials of Prison Life. By Rev. James B. 
Finley. Edited by Rev. B. F. Tefft, D. D. : 12mo 354p — 
Cincinnati, published by L. Swormstedt & J. H. Power 1850 ; 
deposited by Swormstedt & Power, 24 May 1850. 

First Phonetic Reader. First Edition. Excelsior Series. [In Pitman's 
Phonetic Characters,] pamphlet, 16mo 72p. — Longley & Bro- 
ther, Phonetic Publishers, Cincinnati, Ohio, 1850 ; deposited 
by Longley & Brother, 16 December 1850. 

Foley (Fanny — Pseud.) Romance of the Ocean ; A Narrative of the Voy- 
age of the Wildfire to California ; illustrated with stories, 
anecdotes, etc. By Fanny Foley, one of the passengers, 
daughter of an officer of the medical staff: 12mo 218p — Phi- 
ladelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850 ; deposited 
Lindsay & Blakiston, 11 June 1850. 

Foote (Rev. William Henry, D. D.) Sketches of Virginia ; Historical and 
Biographical. By Rev. William Henry Foote, D. D. : 8vo 
large 568p — Philadelphia, published by William S. Martien, 
18o0; deposited by William S. Martien, 15 May 1850. 

FosGATE (Blanchard, M. D.) Sleep psychologically considered with refer- 
ence to sensation and memory. By Blanchard Fosgate, M. D., 
Physician to the New York State Prison at Auburn : 12mo 
188p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850 ; depo- 
sited by G. P. Putnam, 2 August 1850. 

Foster (G. G., Esq.) Celio; or. New York above-ground and under-ground 
By G. G. Foster, Esq., Author of " New York by Gaslight," 
fcc, pamphlet: 8vo 144p — New York, Dewitt & Davenport; 
deposited by Dewitt & Davennort. 13 November 1850. 



253 [ 1 J 

Fountain (The) of living Waters, in a series of sketches, by a Layman : 
IGnio IGop — New York, published by George P. Putnam, 
1850 ; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850. 

Fountain and the Bottle ; comprising thrilling examples of the opposite 
etlects of temperance and intemperance. Edited by a Son 
of Temperance : 8vo 448p — Hartford, published by Case, 
Tiffany & Co., 1850, deposited by Case, Tiffany & Co., 30 
November 1850. 

Fowler (William C.) English Grammar. The English Language in its 
Elements and Forms. With a history of its origin and devel- 
opment. Designed for use in colleges or schools. By William 
C. Fowler : 8vo large, 675p — New York, published by Har- 
per & Brothers, 82 Cliff street, 1850 ; deposited by Harper tk. 
Brothers, 3 September 1850. 

French (B. F.) Historical Collections of Louisiana, embracing trans- 
lations of many rare and valuable documents relating to the 
natural, civil and political history of that State. Compiled 
with historcai and biographical notes, and an introduction, by 
B. F. French. Part 2 : 8vo large, 301p — Philadel])hia, Dan- 
iels & Smith, 1850 ; deposited by B. F. French, 20 November 
1850. 

Frick (Charles, M. D.) Renal Affections : their Diagnosis and Pathology. 
By Charles Frick, M. D. : 12mo 189p — Philadelphia, Lea & 
Blanchard, 1850 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard, 16 December 
1850. 

Friendship's Offering : a Christmas, New- Years, and Birth-day pres- 
ent, for 1851 : 12mo 330p — Boston, published by "Phillips 
Sampson & Co., 1851 ; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co., 7 
December 1850. 

FuRNiss (William) Landvoieglee : or Views Across the Sea ; A new edi- 
tion of the "Old World." By William Furniss. With a map 
and numerous tinted Lithographs: 12mo 290p — New York, 
published by D. Appleton & Co., 1850 ; deposited by William 
Furniss, 25 March 1850. 

Waraga : or, the Charms of the Nile. By William Furniss : 
12mo 456p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 
1850 ; deposited by William Furniss, 25 March 1850. 

George (Anita.) Annals of the Queens of Spain, from the period of the 
Conquest of the Goths down to the reign of her present Ma- 
jesty Isabel IL, with the remarkable events that occurred 
(Uiring their reigns, and anecdotes of their courts. By Anita 
George. Vol 2, 12mo 312p — New York, published by 
Baker & Scribner, 1850 ; deposited by Anita Geoige, 9 Octo- 
ber 1850. 

Gerhard (W. W., M. D.) The Diagnosis, Pathology and Treatment of 
the Diseases of the Chest. I'y W. W. Gerhard, M. D. Third 
Edition, revised and enlarged: 8vo 351p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by E(hnond Barrhigion & George D. Haswell, 1850 ; 
deposited by W. W. Gerhard, 13 August 1850. 



[ 1 ] 254 

Golden Sands (The) of Mexico ; A Moral and Religious Tale, to whicb 
is added, True Riches, or, The Reward of Self-Sacrifice. 
With Illustrations by W. Croome : 12mo 211p — Philadelphia, 
published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850 ; deposited by Lind- 
say & Blakiston, 11 June 1850. 
Good Child's Library (The) First Book. Scenes in the Life of the Saviour. 
In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations from original designs. 
Printed in oil colors, by Hogan & Thompson : 16mo 63p — 
Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; deposited by Ho- 
gan & Thompson, 13 November 1850. 

Child's Library (The) Second Book. Scenes in the life of 
St. Peter.' In easy verse, with brillant illuminations from ori- 
ginal designs. Printed in oil colors, by Hogan & Thompson : 
16mo 60p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; depo- 
sited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 November 1850. 

Child's Library. Third Book. Scenes in the Life of St, 
John. In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations, from original 
designs. Printed in oil colors, by Hogan & Thompson: 16mo 
56p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; deposited by 
Hogan & Thompson, 13 November 1850. 
Child's Library. Fourth Book. Scenes in the life of St. Paul. 
In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations, from original de- 
signs. Printed in oil colors by Hogan & Thompson : 16mo 
59p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; deposited by 
Hogan & Thompson, 13 November, 1850. 

Child's Library. Fifth Book. Scenes in the lives of St, 
Matthew, St. Jude, and St, Simon, In easy verse, with 
brilliant illuminations, from original designs. Printed in oil 
colors, by Hogan & Thompson: 16mo 59p — Philadelphia, 
Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 
13 November 1850. 

Child's Library. Sixth Book. Scenes in the lives of St. 
Stephen, Timothy, St. Mark, and St. Luke. In easy verse, 
with brilliant illuminations from original designs. Printed in 
oil colors, by Hogan & Thompson : 16mo 60p — Philadelphia, 
Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 
13 November 1850. 

Child's Library. Seventh Book. Scenes in the lives of St. 
Philip, St. Bartholomew, and St. Thomas, In easy verse. 
With brilliant illuminations from original designs. Printed in 
oil colors by Hogan & Thompson : IGmo 59p — Philadelphia, 
Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 
13 November 1850, 

Child's Library, Eighth Book. Scenes in the lives of St. 
Andrew, St. James, and St. James the Less. In easy verse, 
with brilliant illuminations from original designs. Printed in 
oil colors by Hogan & Thompson: 16mo 58p — Philadelphia, 
Hogan & Thompson, 1851 ; deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 
13 November 1850, 

Child's Library. Ninth Book. Our Lord's Sermon on the 



255 f 1 ] 

Mount. In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations from origi- 
nal dts'gns. Printed in oil colors, by Hogan & Thompson : 
16mo 56p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1851 ; depo- 
sited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 November 1850. 

Child's Library. Tenth Book. The Parables of the Saviour. 
In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations from original designs. 
Printed in oil colors, by Hogan and Thompson: 16mo 55p — 
Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1851 ; deposited by Hogan 
& Thompson, 13 November 1850. 

Child's Library. Eleventh Book. The Miracles of the Sa- 
viour. In easy verse, with brilliant illuminations, from origi- 
nal designs. Printed in oil colors, by Hogan & Thompson : 
16mo 55p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1851 ; depos- 
ited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 November 1850. 

Child's Library, Twelfth Book. Texts for Children. In 
easy verse, with brilliant illuminations from original designs. 
Printed in oil colors, by Hogan & Thompson : 16mo 60p — 
Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson, 1851 ; deposited by Hogaji 
& Thompson, 13 November, 1850. 

Goodrich (Charles A.) A History of the United States of America, on a 
plan adapted to the capacity of youth, and designed to aid the 
memory by systematic arrangement and interesting associa- 
tions. By Charles A. Goodrich. Illustrated by engravings. 
To which is added, the Constitution of the United States'. lU" 
vised and enlarged from former editions, and brought down to 
1850 : 12mo 418p — Boston, published by Jenks, Palmer, & 
Co., 1850 ; deposited by Charles A. Goodrich, 13 May 1850, 

Goss (Ephraim) Supervisor's Book ; containing an abstract of all laws now 
in force relating to the powers and duties of supervisors of 
the several towns and counties of the State of New York, 
with suitable forms, notes, and references appended thereto. 
Together with a copy of the legislative and parliamentary 
rules, so far as applicable to boards of supervisors. By 
Ephraim Goss : 8vo 212p — Rochester, published by D. M. 
Dewey, 1849 ; deposited by Ephraim Goss, 10 December 
1850. 

Grace Derraott ; or, IIow to lighten Heavy Burdens : 12mo 198p — Phila- 
delphia, American Sunday School Union, 1850 ; deposited by 
American Sunday School Union, 24 August 1850. 

Grahame : or, Youth and Manhood ; A Romance. By the Author of 
"Talbot and Vernon:" 12mo 385p — New York, Baker and 
Scrlbner, 1850 ; deposited by Baker & Scribner, 9 October 
1S50. 
Gray (Alonzo, A. M.) Elements of Natural Philosophy. Designed as a 
Text-Book for Academies, High Schools, and C'ol leges. By 
yVlonzo Gray, A. M. Illustrated by 300 wood cuts: ]2mo 
405p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers; deposited 
by Harper & Brothers, 7 March 1850. 
Gray (TJ rnas) The Poetical Works of Thomas Gray. Illustratd by 
(/ W. Radclilfe. Edited, with a Memoir, by Henry Reed: 



[ 1 ] 256 

12mo 334p — Philadelphia, Henry Carey Baird, successor to 
E. L. Carey, 1851 ; deposited by Henry Carey Baird, 5 De- 
cember 1850. 

Grayson (Eldred, Esq.) Standish, the Puritan. A Tale of the American 
Revolution. By Eldred Grayson, Esq.: 12mo 320p — New 
York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1850 ; deposited by 
Harper & Brothers, 20 May 1850. 

Greeley (Horace) Hints towards Reforms, in Lectures, Addresses and 
other writings. By Horace Greeley : 12mo 400p — New York, 
published by Harper & Brothers, 1850 ; deposited by Horace 
Greeley, 24 May 1850. 

Greenleaf (Simon, L. L. D.) A Treatise on the Law of Evidenc?. By 
Simon Greenleaf, LL. D. Vol. 2. Third Edition: 8vo 
large, 682p. — Boston, Charles C. Little & James Brown ; 
deposited by Simon Greenleaf, 14 October 1850. 

Green Mountain Boys (The) A Historical Tale of the Early Settlement 
of Vermont. By the Author of " May Martin," &c. 2 vols, 
in 1. Revised Edition: 12mo 364p — Burlington, published 
by C. Goodrich & S. B. Nichols, 1848 ; deposited by B. B. 
Mussey and Co., 25 February 1850. 

Greenwood (Grace) [Pseud, for Sara J. Clarke.] Greenwood Leaves, a Col- 
lection of Sketches and Letters. By Grace Greenwood: [Sara 
J.Clarke]: 12mo 406p. — Boston, Ticknor, Reed k Fields, 
1850 ; deposited by Sara J. Clarke, 8 January 1850. 

Griffith (R. Eglesfeld, M. D.) A Universal Formulary : containing the 
methods of preparing and administering officinal and other 
medicines. The whole adapted to Physicians and Pharmaceu- 
tists. By R. Eglesfeld Griffith, M. D. : 8vo large 567p — 
Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1850 ; deposited 
by Lea & Blanchard, 29 April 1850. 

Guernsey (Egbert, A. M.) History of the United States of America, de- 
signed for Schools. Extending from the discovery of America 
by Columbus to the present time ; with numerous maps and 
engravings, together with a notice of American Antiquities and 
the Indian Tribes. By Egbert Guernsey, A. M. Seventh 
Edition: 12mo 456p — New York, published by Cady & Bur- 
gess, 1850 ; deposited by Egbert Guernsey, A. M., 17 Decem- 
ber 1850. 

Guide to theWhite Mountains and Lakes of New Hampshire : with minute 
and accurate descriptions of the scenery and objects of interest 
on the route ; containing also full and correct information, rela- 
tive to the towns, hotels, distances, fares, &c. : 16mo 9p — 
Concord, N. H., published by Trip-:) & Morril, printers, 1850; 
deposited by E. B. Tripp & W. H. Morril, 1 July 1850. 

GuizoT (Madame) Clara ; or. The Discipline of Affliction. Translated 
from the French of Madame Guizot : 16mo 147p — Philadel- 
phia, published by A. Hart, 1850; deposited by A. Hart, 27 
April 1850. 

Hall (Miss A.) The Literary Reader, for Academies and High Schools : 



257 [ 1 ] 

consisting of selections, in prose and verse, from American, Eno-- 
lish, and other foreign literatnre, chronologically arranged. 
Including hiographical sketches, and remarks on the Art of 
Reading^ By Miss A. Hall, author of the "Manual of Morals.*' 
12mo 40Sp — Boston, puhlished hy John P. Jewett & Co., 
I80O ; deposited by Arethusa Hall, 28 October 1850. 
Harris (Chapin A., M.D., DD. S.) The Principles and Practice of Dental 
Surgery. By Chapin A. Harris, M. D., DT). S., &c. Fourth 
edition, revised, modified and greatly enlarged, with two hun- 
dred illustrations : 8vo 80op — Philadelphia, published by 
Lindsay & Blakiston, 1800 ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakis- 
ton, 31 July 1850. 

Hart (Professor John S.) The Iris ; an illuminated Souvenir for 18-')1. 
Edited by Professor John S. Hart : 8vo large, :312p — Phila- 
delphia, published by Lippincott, Grambo &"Co., 1850 ; depo- 
sited by Lippincott, Grambo & Co., 28 September, 1850. 

Hartlea- (Oliver C.) A Digest of the Laws of Texas : to which is sub- 
joined an appendix containing the Acts of Congress of the 
United States on the subject of the Naturalization of Aliens, 
and the Authentication of Records, &c., in each State or Tei-- 
ritory, so as to take effect in every other State or Territory ; 
and to which are prefixed the Constitutions of the United 
States, of the Provisional Govermnent of Texas, of the Repub- 
lic of Texas, and of the State of Texas. By Oliver C. Hart- 
ley, of Galveston: 8vo large, 1041p — Philadelphia, published 
by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 1850; deposited by O. C. 
& B. K. Hartley, 9 October 1850. 

Uaswell (Charles H.) Engineers' and Mechanics' pocket book, containing 
United States and foreign Aveights and measures ; tables of 
areas and circumferences of circles, circular segments, and 
zones of a circle ; squares and cubes, square and cube roots ; 
lengths of circular and semi-elliptic arcs, and rules of arithme- 
tic; mensuration of surfaces and solids; the mechanical powers, 
geometry, trigonometry, gravity, strength of materials, water- 
wheels, hydraulics, hydrostatics, pneumatics, statics, dynamics, 
gunnery, heat, winding engines, tonnage, shot, shells, &c. ; 
steam and the steam engine ; combustion, water, cables, and 
anchors, fuel, air, guns, &c., &c. Miscellaneous notes and 
exercises, &c., &c. By Charles H. Haswell, Engineer in Chief 
U. S. Navy. vSixth Edition : IGmo 296p — New York, Harper 
& Brothers, 82 Chff Street, 1850; deposited by Harper & Bro- 
thers, 20 May 1850. 

Hawks (Francis L., D.D., LL, D.) The Monuments of Egypt : or, Egypt, 
a witness for the Bil)le. By Francis I^. Hawks; with illus- 
trations. Second edition, revised and enlarged : 8vol arge 298p 
New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by 
G. P. Putnam, 29 April, 1850. 

JfAyDKN (Chester) The Law and Practice of Justices of the Peace, in tlu.'ir 
miscellaneous ([uties and jurisdiction : together with more than 
Mis— 17. 



[ 1 ] 258 

two-hundred practical forms, placed in connection with the 
subjects to which they relate. By Chester Hayden : 8vo 409p 
— Albany, published by Little & Co., 1850 ; deposited by 
Chester Hayden, 9 May 1850. 

Headley (Rev. J. T.) The Miscellaneous Works of Rev. J. T. Headley. 
With a biographical sketch and portrait of the Author. In two 
volumes : i2mo Vol. 1, 322p,; Vol. 2, 319p— New York, pub- 
lished by John S. Taylor, 1849 ; deposited by John S. Taylor, 
24 January 1850. 

Miscellanies. By J. T. Headley. Authorized edi- 
tion : 12rao 298p — New^ York, published by Baker & Scrib- 
ner, 1850 ; deposited by J. T. Headley, 25 March 1850. 

Sketches and Rambles. By J. T. Headley : 12mo 
241p — New York, published by Baker & Scribner, 1850 ; 
deposited by J. T. Headley, 25 March 1850. [Another copy 
deposited 25 April, 1851.] 

Sacred Scenes and Characters. By J. T. Headley. 
With original designs by Darley : 12mo 228p — New York, 
published by Baker & Scribner, 1850 ; deposited by J. T. 
Headley, 3 January 1850. 

Hentz (Caroline Lee) Linda ; or, the young pilot of the Belle Creole. A 
tale of Southern Life. By Caroline Lee Hentz : 12nio 276p — 
Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, 1850 ; deposited by A. 
Hart, 27 April 1850. 

Hill (Benjamin L., M. D.) Lectures on the American Eclectic System of 
Surgery. By Benjamin L. Hill, M. D., &c., &c. With one 
hundred engravings, illustrating the practice of surgery : ^vo 
(371p — Cincinnati, published by N. Phillips & Co., ISoO ; de- 
posited by Benjamin L. Hill, M. D., 2 December, 1850. 

Hints to Consumptives : 2 leaves 4to ; deposited by S. Tousey, 16 De- 
cember 1850. 

History (The) of a Pocket Prayer Book, written by itself. Third edition, 
revised and enlarged : 12mo 262p — Philadelphia, R. E. Pe- 
terson, 1850 ; deposited by Benjamin Dorr, 12 August, 1850. 

Hopkins (John Henry, D. D., Bishop of Vermont) The History of the 
Confessional. By John Henry Hopkins, D. D. : 12mo 334p — 
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1850 ; deposited 
by Harper & Brothers, G June 1850. 

Hopkins (Mark, D.D.) Faith, Philosophy, and Reason. A Baccalaureate 
Sermon, delivered at Williamstown, Mass., August 18, 1850, 
By Mark Hopkins, D. D. : 8vo 28p — Boston, press of T. R. 
Marvin, 1850 ; deposited by T. R. Marvin, 28 December, 1850, 

Howard (Benjamin C.) Reports of Cases argued and adjudged in the Su- 
preme court of the United States, January term, 185). By 
Benjamin C. Howard. Vol 8, 8vo large : Boston, published by 
Little & Brown, 1850 ; deposited by Little & Brown, 11 June 
1850. 

Hows (John W. S.) The Practical Elocutionist, and Academical Reader 



, 259 [ 1 ] 

and Speaker ; designed for Ihe use of Colleges_, Academies and 
High Schools. Ey John W. S. Hows: 12aio vol. 1., 4"30p; 
vol. 2, 444p — New York^ publisht-il by G. P. Putnam; depo- 
sited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1^-30, ' 

Imbrie (Charles K.) The Kingdom of God : A Discourse preached before 
the Synod of New Jersey, October 17, 1849. By Charles K. 
Imbrie : 12mo 147p — New York, published by Franklin 
Knight, 18-50 ; deposited by F. Knight, 16 March 1850, 

Irving (Washington) Mahomet and his Successors. Ey Washington 
Irving. In 2 volumes, vol. 1 only received : 12mo vol 1 y73p 
— Ne\v York, George P. Putnam, 155 Eroadway ; another 
copy deposited 29 April, 18o0; deposited by Washington 
Irving, 20 August 1850. 

The Adventures of Captain Bonneville, U. S. A., 
in the Rocky Mountains and the Far West ; digested from his 
Journal and illustrated from various other sources. By Wash- 
ington Irving, Author's revised edition. Complete in one 
volume : 12mo 428p — New York, George P. Putnam, 1850 ; 
deposited by Washington Irving, 20 August 1850. 

Chronicle of the Conquest of Granada, from the 
MSS. of Fray Antonio Agapida. [By Washington Irving :] 
12mo 548 pp — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, ]850 ; 
deposited by Washington Irving, 20 August 1850. 

Oliver Goldsmith : a biography. By Washirifrton 
Irving, [being, as by first title page, Vol. 11 of] The Works of 
Washington Irving, New edition, revised: 12mo 382p — New 
York, published by George P. Putnam, 1850 ; deposited by W. 
Irving, 20 August 1850. 

The Crayon Reading Book; comprising silections 
from the various writings of Washington Irving. Prepared f ( r 
the use of schools : 12mo 255p — New York, published by 
George P. Putnam, 1850 ; deposited by George P. Putnam, 20 
August, 1850. 
Jewett (Susan W.) The Rose Bud. A Juvenile Keepsake. By Susan 
W. Jewett : IGmo 128p — Philadelphia, George S. Ap])leton ; 
deposited by George S. Appleton, 2 October, 1850. 

Johnson (Samuel, LL. D.) The History of Rasselas, Prince of Abissinia. 
A Tale. 

The Vision of Theodore. 

The Fountains. A Fairy Tale. By Samuel 
Johnson, LL. D.. With remarks on the writings and charac- 
ter of Dr. Johnson. Embellished with illuminations and engra- 
vings in tint from original designs by Devereux : 8vo 23()j) — 
Philadlphia, ]ndilished by llogan & Thompson, 1850; deposi- 
ted by Hogaii & Thompson, 25 Jaiuuiry 1850. 

Johnson' (Walter R.) The Coal Trade of British America, with researches 
on the characters and practical values of American and Foreign 
Coals. By Walter R. Johnson: 8vo 179p — Washington, 



[ 1 ] 260 , 

published by Taylor & Maury, 1850 ; deposited by Walter R, 
Johnson, 18 January, 1850. 

Jones (Joel) A Syllabus of the Law of Land Office Titles in Pennsylvania. 
By Joel Jones : 12mo 264p — Philadelphia, published by 
Henry Perkins, 1850 ; deposited by Henry Perkins, 25 January 
1850. 

Jones (J. Pringle) Pennsylvania State Reports, containing cases adjudged 
in the Supreme Court during part of May Term, July Term, 
and part of September Term, 1849, vol. 11. By J. Pringle 
Jones, President of the Third Judicial District : 8vo 566p — 
Philadelphia, T. & J. W. Johnson, publishers, 1850; deposited 
by T. & J. W. Johnson, 13 November 1850. 

Kamanyo. Written for the American Sunday School Union: 12mo 90p — 
Philadelphia, American Sunday School Union, 1850 ; deposited 
by American Sunday School Union, 24 August 1850. 

Kimball (Richard B.) Saint Leger : or, The Threads of Life. By Richard 
B. Kimball; third edition: 12mo 384p — New York, published 
by G. P. Putnam, 1850 ; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 
1850. 

King (The) of the Hurons. By the Author of " The First of the Knick- 
erbockers," &c. : 12mo 319p — New York, published by G. 
P. Putnam, 1850 ; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850. 

KiNGSBURV (C. P.) An Elementary Treatise on Artillery and Infantry, 
adapted to the service of the United States ; designed for the 
use of Cadets of the United States Military Academy, and for 
Officers of the Independent Companies of Volunteers and 
Militia. By C. P. Kingsbury: 12mo 203p — New York, 
published by G. P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 
29 April 1850, 

IviNGSLEY (George) The Sacred Harmonist : A New Collection of Church 
Music. Edited by George Kingsley : 8vo long — New York, 
published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1850 ; deposited by A. S. 
Barnes & Co., 1 February 1850. 

KiRKBRiDE (Stacy B., Jr.) Kirkbride's New Jersey Business Directory, 
General Register and Advertising Medium, containing a revised 
Map of the State, the Constitution of the United States, and 
State of New Jersey ; Officers of Government of the United 

States and New Jersey Collectors of Customs, 

Custom House rates of Gold, United States and Foreign rates 
of Postage ; . . . . and the various Miscellaneous Depart- 
ments contributing to the prosperity and business wealth of the 
State. Carefully collected, arranged, and published by Stacy B. 
Kirkbride, Jr., for 1850 and 1851. To be revised and published 
in 1852: 8vo 348p — Trenton, N. J., 1850; deposited by 
Stacy B. Kirkbride, Jr., 8 September 1850. 

Klipstein (Louis F.) Analecta Anglo-Saxonica. Selections in Prose and 
Verse, from the Anglo-Saxon Literature : with an Introductory 
Ethnological Essay, and Notes, Critical and Explanatory. By 
Louis F. Klipstein: 2 vols. 12mo, vol 1, 430p, vol 2 444p — 



261 [ 1 ] 

New York, George P. Putnam, loo Broadway, 1S49 ; dejK)- 
sited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April iHoO. 

Lamartine (Alphonse de) The Past, Present and Future of the Republii-. 
Transhited from the French of Alphonse de Lamartine: 12mo 
163p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1850 ; 
deposited by Harper & Brothers, 10 June 1850. 

Larrabee (William C, A. M.) Lectures on the Scientific evidencel^ of 
Natural and Revealed Religion. By William C. Larrabee, 
A. M. Edited by Rev. B. F. Teflt, D. D. : 12mo :395p — 
Cincinnati, published by Swormsted & Power, 1850 ; deposi- 
ted by Swormstedt & Power, 24 May 1850. 

Lanman (Charles) Haw-ho-noo ; or. Records of a Tourist. By Charles 
Lanman, author of "Letters from the Alleghany Mountains" : 
12mo 266p — Philadelphia, published by Lippiiicott, Grambo& 
Co., 1850 ; deposited by Lippincott, Grambo & Co., 28 Sep- 
tember 1850. 

Leslie (Miss) Miss Leslie's Lady's New Receipt-Book ; a useful guide for 
large or small families, containing directions for cooking, pre- 
serving, pickling, &c., &c. Third edition, enlarged, with one- 
hundred and twenty additional receipts for preparing farina, 
Indian meal, fancy tea cake, marmalades, &c. ; being a sequel to 
her "Complete Cookery": 12mo 436p — Philadelphia, pub- 
lished by A. Hart, 1850; deposited by A. Hart, 27 April 1850. 

Lester (C. Edwards) The Gallery of Illustrious Americans. Containing 
the portraits and biographical sketches of twenty-four of the 
most eminent citizens of the American republic, since the death 
of Washington. From daguerreotypes by Brady. Engraved 
by D'Avignon ; C. Edwards Lester, Editor. [No. 1, Taylor :] 
4to — New York, M. B. Brady, F. D'Avignon, C. Edwards 
Lester, 1850 ; deposited by Brady, D'Avignon & Co., 15 Feb- 
ruary, 1850. 

Lewis (Mrs. S. Anna) Child of the Sea, and other Poems. By Mrs. S. 
Anna Lewis : 12mo 179p — New York, published by G. P. Put- 
nam ; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850. 

Lights and Shadows of Domestic Life, and other Stories. By the Author 
of "Rose and her Lamb," &c. : IGmo 267p — Boston, pub- 
lished by Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 1850; deposited by Ticknor, 
Reed & Felds, 27 May 1850. 

Little Annie's Speller; pi'ettily illustrated: 16mo GGp — Philadelidiia, 
(jeo. S. Appleton ; deposited by Geo. S. Applcton, 2 October 
1850. 

Annie's A. B. C. Showing the use and sounds of the letters, in 
words of one syllable: IGmo — Philadelphia, Geo. S. Appleton, 
1851 ; deposited by Geo. S. Ajipleton, 2 October ISIO. 
Locke Amsden, or, The Schoolmaster. A Tale ; by the Author of " May 
Martin," &.c., Second edition: 12mo2olp — Boston, published by 
Benjamin B. Mussey, & Co., 1850; deposited by D. P. Thomji- 
son, 25 Februaiy 1850. 

Lonely Hours. A Text Book of Knitting, by an American Lady. In 



[ 1 ] 



262 



two parts. Containing twenty-seven patterns and directions for 
the most useful and fashionable articles of Knitting now in use. 
Adapted to American Customs : 16mo 72p — Philadelphia, E. 
Gaskill, 1850; deposited by Edward Gaskill, 31 October 1850. 

Longfellow (Henry Wadsworth) The Seaside and the Fireside. By Henry 
Wadsworth Longfellow : 16mo 141p — Boston, published by 
♦ Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 1850 ; deposited by H. W. Long- 

fellow, 8 January 1850. 

LooMis (Elias) The recent Progress of Astronomy ; especially in the Uni- 
ted States. By Elias Loomis : 8vo 257p — New York, pub- 
lished by Harper & Brothers, 1850 ; deposited by Harper & 
Brothers, 21 September, 1850. 

The Recent Progress of Astronomy ; especially in the 
United States. By Elias Loomis: 12mo 256p — New York, 
published by Harper & Brothers, 1850 ; deposited by Harper 
& Brothers, 19 October, 1850. 

Lord (John, A, M.) A modern History from the time of Luther to the 
Fall of Napoleon, For the use of schools and colleges. By 
John Lord, A.M.: 8vo 544p — Philadelphia, published by 
Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 1849 ; deposited by John Lord, 
81 January 1850, 

Lorgnette (The) or, Studies of the Town, by an Opera-goer; Nos. 1 and 
2 : 12mo — New York, published by Henry Kernot, 1850 ; 
deposited by E. O. Jenkins, 15 August 1850. 

LossiNG (Benson J.) Pictorial Field Book of the Revolution : or, Illustra- 
tions by Pen and Pencil, of the History, Scenery, Biography, 
Relics and Traditions of the War for Independence. By Ben- 
son J. Lossing. With 600 Engravings on Wood, by Lossing 
and Barritt, chiefly from original Sketches by the Author. 
(Nos. 1, 2, 3, & 4, received). Royal 8vo — New York, pub- 
lished by Harper & Brothers, 1850 ; deposited by Harper & 
Brothers, 20 June 1850. No 4, 24 July. 

Seventeen Hundred and Seventy-Six : or, The W^ar 
of Independence ; a History of the Anglo-Americans, from the 
period of the Union of the Colonies against the French, to the 
Inaugaration of Washington, the first President of the United 
States of America. Illustrated by numerous engravings of 
plans of battles, prominent events, interesting localities, and 
portraits of distinguished men of the period. By Benson J. 
Lossing. New Edition : 8vo 510p — New York, published by 
Edward Walker, 1850; deposited by Edward Walker, 28 
January, 1850. 

Lynch (W. F., U. S. N.) Narrative of the United States Expedition to 
the River Jordan and the Dead Sea. By W. F. Lynch, U, S. 
N., Commander of the Expedition, With a Map from accu- 
rate Surveys, A new and condensed edition : 12mo 332p — 
Philadelphia, piddished by Lea & Blanchard, 1850 ; deposited 
by Lea & Blancliard, 29 April 1850, 

LvNDONTON (Sir James) Horses made sound by the Horse-Owner's Secret. 
Being a new and certain method for the speedy cure of Horses. 



263 [ 1 ] 

By 'Sir James Lyndonton ; pamplilet : IGmo 8p — New York, 
Printed for the Proprietor, 1800; deposited by S. Towsey, IG 
December, 18-30. 

Lyoxs (T. L.) a new Grammar of the English Languag-e familiarly ex- 
plained, and adapted to the use of schools and private students. 
J3y T. L. Lyons: I'Jmo 196p — Cincinnati, jiublished by H. 
S. & J. Applegate, 18-30 ; deposited by T. L. Lyons, 2 August 
18-50. 

M'Clintock (John, D. D.) A Second Book in Greek; containing Syntax, 
with reading lessons in Prose ; Pi-osody and the Dialects, with 
reading lessons in Verse, forming a sufficient Greek Reader, with 
a Voca[)ulary. Ey John M'Clintock : l*2mo 347p — New York, 
Harper & Brothers, 18o0 ; deposited by Harper & Brothers, 1-3 
July, 1850. 

Macdonald, or, the Great Mistake. A Story of Real Life: 12mo '54p — 
Philadelphia, American Sunday School Union, 1850; deposited 
by American Sunday School Union, 24 August, 1850. 

M'In'tire (James, M. D.) A new Treatise on Astronomy, and the use of 
the Globes, in two parts ; containing astronomical and other 
definitions ; motions and positions of the sun, moon and planets ; 
Kepler's Laws and the theory of gravitation ; refraction, twi- 
light and parallax ; connections, periods, distances, phenomena, 
and magnitudes of the heavenly bodies composing the solar 
system, &.c. Also, an extensive collection of the most 'useful 
problems on the globes, illustrated by a suitable'Yariety of ex- 
amples, &c. Designed for the use of high schools and acade- 
mies. By James M'Intire, M. D.: 12mo 326p — New York, 
published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1850; deposited by A. S. 
Barnes & Co., 1 February, 1850. 

Mann (Horace.) A Few Thoughts for a Young Man : a Lecture delivered 
before the Boston Mercantile Library Association, on its twenty- 
ninth anniversary. By Horace Mann : 16mo 84p — Boston, pub- 
lished by Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 18501 deposited by Horace 
Mann, 27 February, 1850. 

Mansfield (Edward D.) American Education, its Principles and Elements. 
Dedicated to the Teachers of the United States. By Edward 
D. Mansfield: 8vo :3;30p — New York, published by A. S. 
Barnes & Co., 1850 ; deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co., 5 De- 
cember, 1850. 

Manual of Commercial Correspondence, English and French; or, selection 
of commercial phrases, taken from a nurid)er of letters, accounts, 
catalogues, prices current, and other papers. By a merchant. 
[With two titles, one as above, the other the same in French.] 
J2mo 124p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1S;5() ; 
deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April, 1850. 

March (Charles W.) Reminiscences of Congiess. By Charles W, March. 
Secoml edition : 12mo 295p — New York, Baker & Scribner ; 
deposited by Baker & Scribner, 9 October, 1850. 

Marquart (John) United States Key for mathematical self-instruction on 
the mechanical sliding rule, commoidy called th6 carpenter's 



[ 1 J 264 

rule. By John Marquart: 16mo 66p — Philadelphia, puhlished 
by C. Sherman, 1850 ; deposited by John Marquart, 6 May, 1850, 

Marvel, Ik [Pseudo. for Mitchel — ] The Eattle Summer ; being transcripts 
from personal observations in Paris, during the year 1848. By 
Ik Marvel : 12mo 289p — New York, published by Baker 
& Scribner, 1850; deposited by Baker & Scribner, 3 January^ 
1850. 

Mason (Lowell) The New Carmina Sacra; or, Boston Collection of Church 
Music. Comprising the most popular psalm and hymn tunes 
in general use, together with a great variety of new tunes, 
chants, sentences, motetts, and anthems ; principally by disthi- 
guished European composers : the whole being one of the most 
complete collections of music for choirs, congregations, singing 
schools, and societies, extant. By Lowell Mason : 8vo long, 
380p — Boston, published by Wilkins, Carter & Co., 1850 ; 
deposited by Melvin Lord, 24 September, 1850. 

Mattoon (Charles H.) Analytic Series, No. 2. Common arithmetic upon 
the analytic method of instruction ; also, the principles of can- 
cellation, and other modern improvements. The whole made 
simple and easy by numerous practical examples. Designed for 
the use of schools. By Charles H. Mattoon : 12mo o88p — 
steam press of S. Medary : deposited by Charles H. Mattoon 
25 April 1850. 

May (Caroline) Treasured Thoughts from favourite Authors, collected and 
arranged by Caroline May : 12mo 3o6p — Philadeljihia, pub- 
lished by Lindsay & Blakiston 1850 ; deposited by Lindsay &. 
Blakiston, 18 December 1850. 

Mayo (Joseph, Esq.) A Guide to Magistrates ; with practical forms for 
the discharge of their duties out of court. To which are added, 
precedents, for the use of prosecutors, sheriffs, coroners, consta- 
bles, escheators, clerks, &c ; adapted to the new code of Vir- 
ginia ; by Joseph Mayo, Esq. : 8vo large : 704p — Richmond, 
published by R. I. Smith, for the author, 1849 ; deposited by 
Joseph Mayo, Esq., 10 September 1850. 

Mayo (William Starbuck, M. D.,) The Berber ; or, the Mountaineer of the 
xitlas. A tale of Morocco. By William Starbuck Mayo, M. D., 
author of Kaloolah, &c. : 12mo 454p — New York, George P. 
Putnam, 1850 ; deposited by William Starbuck Mayo, 20 Au- 
gust 1850. 

Kaloolah ; or, Journeyings to the Djebel 
Kumri. An autobiography of Jonathan Romer. Edited by W. 
S. Mayo ; third edition: 12mo 514p — New York, published 
by G. P. Putnam, 1850 ; deposited l)y W. S. Mayo, 29 April 
1850. 

Meigs (Charles D.) Woman; her diseases and remedies. A series of letters 
to his class. By Charles D. Meigs, M.D., &c. Second edition, re- 
vised and enlarged : 8vo 690p — Philadelphia, Lea & Blanch- 
ard, 1851 ; deposited by Lea & Blanchard, 16 December 1850. 
Observations on certain of the diseases of young children. 
By Charles D. Meigs, M. D., &c. : 8vo 315p —Philadelphia, 



265 [ 1 ] 

Lea & Blanclutnl, 18o() ; deposited by Charles D. Meigs, 1(5 
December 18o0. 
Miles (George D.) Memoir of Ellen May Woodward. Ey the Reverend 
George D. Miles: 12mo — Piiila(k'lphia, Lindsay & Ehikiston, 
1850; deposited liy Lindsay & Elakiston, :]1 July 1850. 

Miles (Josiah) Miles' United States Spelling Book, comprising the rudi- 
ments of the English Language, the Alphabet, and a series of 
spelling lessons, in five parts, containing over fifteen thousand 
of the most common English words, spelled and pronounced in 
accordance with the best authenticated usage ; also, an exten- 
sive pronouncing list of American and Foreign Geographical 
names : to which is a})pen(led a list of about five hundred 
words of various orthography, and a brief synopsis of words 
differently pronounced by difi'erent authors. Ey Josiah Miles: 
12mo 158p — New York, published by Cornish, Lamport & 
Co., 1850 ; deposited by Josiah Miles, 19 August 1850. Ano- 
ther copy, stereotype edition, deposited 20 November 1850. 

Milton, (John) The Paradise Lost. Ey John Milton. With Notes, Ex- 
planatory and Critical. Edited by Rev. James Robert Boyd: 
i2mo 542p — New York, Baker & Scribner, 1850 ; deposited 
by Baker & Scribner, 9 October 1850. 

Mitchell (S. Augustus) Mitchell's Biblical and Sabbath School Geography, 
designed for instruction in Sabbath Schools and Bible classes : 
comprising a geographical description of Palestine or the Holy 
Land ; with the other regions mentioned in the Scriptures of 
the Old and New^ Testament. Illustrated with colored Maps 
and Wood Cut engravings. Ey S. Augustus Mitchell : 12mo 
122p — Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthw\ait & 
Co., 1849 ; deposited by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 7 
March 1850. 

Mitchell's Primary Geography. An Easy Introduction to 
the Study of Geography ; designed for the instruction of chil- 
dren in schools and fiimilies. Illustrated by 120 Engravings 
and 14 Maps. By S. Augustus Mitchell; 2(1 Revised Edition: 
16mo 176p — Philadelphia, ])ublished by Thomas, Cowperthwait 
& Co ; deposited l)y S. Augustus Mitchell, 7 March 1850. 

Mitchell's Intermeiliate or Secondary Geography. A Sys- 
tem of Modern Geography, comprising a description of the 
present state of the world, and its five great divisions, America, 
Europe, Asia, Africa, and Oceanica, with their several Em- 
pires, Kingdoms, States, Territories, &c. Illustrated l)y 40 
Maps, and numerous wood-cut engravings. Designed tor the 
instruction of youth in schools and families. By S. Augustus 
Mitchell: 4to. 80p. — Philadelphia, published by 'J^homas, 
Cowperthwait & Co, 1850 ; deposited by S. Augustus Mit- 
chell, 7 March 1850. 

Mitchell's School Geography. Thiid {{cviscd Edition. A 
System of Modern Geography, compi'ising a description of the 
present state of the World, and its five great divisioiis, Ame- 
lica, Europe, Asia, Africa and Oceanica, with their several 



[ 1 ] 266 

Empires, Kingdoms, States, Territories, etc. Embellished by 
mimerous engravings. Adapted to the capacity of Youth. 
Illustrated by an atlas of 28 maps, drawn and engraved to ac- 
company the work. By S. Augustus Mitchell : l'2mo 336p — 
Philadelphia, published by Thomas, Cowperthwait & Co., 1850 ; 
deposited by S. Augustus Mitchell, 7 March 1850. 

Mitchell (Thomas D., A. M., M. D.,) Materia Medicaand Therapeutics : 
with ample illustrations of practice in all the departments of Me- 
dical science, and very copious notices of Toxicology. Suited to 
the wants of Medical students and Practitioners. By Thomas 
D. Mitchell, A. M., M. D., &c. : 8vo large, 738p — Philadel- 
phia, Lippincott, Grambo & Co., 1850; deposited by Thomas 
D. Mitchell, 19 September 1850. 

Moore (Rev. Henry D.) The Winter Bloom. With nine brilliant illumina- 
nations in oil colors. Edited by Rev. Henry D. Moore : 8vo 
240p — Philadelphia, Hogan & Thompson ; deposited by Ho- 
gan & Thompson, 13 November 1850. 

MoREY (Cornell) Explanations of the principles of Arithmetic on a new plan. 
By Cornell Morey ; 12mo 94p — Rochester, N. Y., published by 
John Greaves, 1850 ; deposited by Cornell Morey, 10 Septem- 
ber 1850. 

Morning Watch : (The) A Narrative. [By Lewis W. Mansfield] : 12mo 
175p — published for the author, by G. P. Putnam, 155 Broad- 
way, New York, 1850 ; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 16 Au- 
gust 1850. 

Moses (Thomas P.) A sketch of the life of Thomas P. Moses, Teacher of 
music, and also, some remarks upon the doings of Pharisees, 
Hypocrites, an.d Defamers of Character ; with the addition of a 
few short poems ; all written by himself, and respectfully in- 
scribed to his friends, with a free permission for all enemies to 
read, if they think it would not depress their spirits and injure 
their health. Vol 1 : 12mo 96p — Portsmouth, N. H., printe<l 
by Thomas J. Whittem, 1850 ; deposited by Thomas P. Moses, 
26 March 1850. 

MuiR (John) Muir's American Accountant, mercantile manual, and instrctor, 
comprising a concise method of book-keeping, useful forms for 
bills, receipts, orders, notes, drafts, checks, letters, invoices, 
accounts current, sales, &c. With instructive rules, remarks, 
maxims, and laws pertaining to monetary affairs. By John 
Muir : Alexandria, Va., printed at the Alexandria Gazette 
Office, 1850 ; deposited by John Muir, 15 November, 1850. 
Muir's American Grammar, being a brief, practical, perspicuous 
and unique exposition of the rudiments of the English lan- 
guage, compiled mainly for the use of tyros ; also, compri- 
sing a short reference to punctuation, capital letters, figures 
of speech, composition, violations of grammar, &c. By John 
Muir : 12mo 71p — Alexandria, printed at the Alexandria 
Gazette Office, 1850 ; deposited 28 March 1850. 

My Little Primer; to teach a few words and the alphabet : 16mo 36p — 



267 [ 1 ] 

Boston, published by T. R.Marvin, 1850; deposited ]ty -F. 
BuMistead, 26 November, iHoO. 

National Cook Book (The) By a Lady of Philadelphia, a practical 
housewife : 12nio — Philadelphia, published by Robert E. Pe- 
terson, 1850 ; deposited by Robert E. Peterson, 12 August 
1850. 

New North American vSpelling Book (The) designed for elementary in- 
stuction in schools. Being an improvement upon all others : 
12mo 120p — Hogan & Thompson, 1851 ; deposited by Ho- 
gan & Thompson, 13 November, 1850. 

Newton (Sereno) Engineers', Millwrights', and Machinists' Tables; con- 
taining a table of the proportional radii of wheels, from ten t^o 
four hundred teeth ; together with other tables and rules, appli- 
cable to the construction of mill work and other machinery ; also, 
rules for making wheel patterns, their proportions, &c. By 
Sereno Newton ; sixth edition : 8vo 32p — New York, George 
Carrall, 1850 ; deposited by George Carrall, 20 July 1850. 

Nicholson (George W. S.) Poems of the Heart. By George W. S. Ni- 
cholson : 12mo 120p — Philadelphia, George S. Appleton, 1850 ; 
deposited by George S. Appleton, 2 October 1850. 

Northern Farmers' Almanac (The) 1851. Edited by Solon Robinson, and 
published by A. B. Allen & Co., New York Agricultural Ware- 
house, 189 and 191 Water Street. Calculated for the Meri- 
dian of New York City, and is suited to all Northern and 
Western States; deposited by A. B. Allen & Co., 17 Septem- 
ber 1850. 

NoRVEL Hastings ; or. The Frigate in the Offing. A Nautical Tale of the 
War of 1812. By a distinguished Novelist. Complete in one 
Volume: 8vo 14op — Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, 
1850; deposited by A. Hart, 10 August 1850. 

(Old) Farmer's Almanack (The) No. 59 ; calculated on a new and improved 
plan: for the year of our Lord, 1851 ; being third after Bissex- 
tile or leap year, and (until July 4) 75th of American Indepen- 
dence. Fitted for the city of Boston, but will answer for aLl 
the New England States ; containing, besides the large num- 
ber of astronomical calculations, and the Farmer's Calendar for 
every month in the year, as great a variety as any other Alma- 
nack of new, useful, and entertaining matter. Established in 
1793, by Robert B. Thomas. Boston, published by Jenk.s, 
Palmer & Co. ; deposited by J. H. Jenks and G. W. Palmer, 
18 October, 1850. 
(Same.) Published by Said)orn & Carter, Portland, Me. ; deposited 
by J. H. Jenks and G. W. Palmer, 18 October, 1850. 

Olney (J., A. M.) A Practical System of Modern Geography ; or, a view 
of the present state of the world, simplified and adapted to the 
capacity of youth, containing numerous tables, exhibiting thf 
divisions, settlement, population, extent, lakes, canals, and the 
various institutions of the United States and Europe, the dif- 
ferent forms of government and prevailing religions. Embel- 
lished with numerous enffravinffs of manners, customs, &c. 



[ 1 ] 268 

Revised and illustrated by a new and enlarged Atlas. By J. 
Olney, A.M.: sixty-third edition, 12mo 296p — New York, 
published by Pratt, Woodford & Co., 1850 ; deposited 6 Jmie, 
ISoO. 

Other Side : (The,) or, Notes for the History of the War between Mexico 
and the United States ; written in Mexico. Translated from the 
Spanish, and edited, with notes, by Albert C. Ramsey. W^itli 
portraits ot distinguished officers, plans of battles, &c. : 12mo 
458p — New York, published by John Wiley, 1850 ; deposited 
by J. Wiley, 29 January, 1850." 

Ott (James Cramer.) The Truth ; according to and with the Word. By 
James Cramer Ott : pamphlet, 8vo 128p — city of Albany, and 
state of New York, A. D., 1850: deposited by James Cramer 
Ott, 25 November, 1850. 

Overman (Frederick ) The Manufacture of Iron, in all its various branches, 
including a description of wood-cutting, coal-digging, and tlie 
burning of charcoal and coke ; the digging and roasting of iron- 
ore, the building and management of blast-furnaces, working by 
charcoal, coke, or anthracite ; the refining of iron, and the con- 
version of the crude into wrought iron, by charcoal forges and 
puddling furnaces ; also a description of forge-hammers, rolling- 
mills, blast machines, hot blast, &c. &c. To which is added an 
essay on the manufacture of steel. By Frederick Overman, 
mining engineer; with 150 wood engravings, executed by W. 

B. Gihon : 8vo large, 492p — Philadelphia, published by Henry 

C. Baird, successor to E. L. Carey, 1850 ; deposited by Henry 
C. Baird, 4 January, 1850. 

Painter, Gilder and Varnisher's Companion (The) ; containing rules and 
regulations in every thing relating to the arts of painting, gild- 
ing, varnishing anil glass staining ; numerous useful and valua- 
ble receipts ; tests for the detection of adulterations in oils, 
colours, &c. ; and a statement of the diseases and accidents to 
which painters, gilders and varnishers are peculiarly liable, with 
the simplest and best methods of precaution and remedy : 12mo 
— Philadelphia, published by H. C. Baird, 1850; deposited by 
H. C. Baird, 6 August, 1850. 

Parker (Richard G.) Parker's Conversations. Juvenile Philosophy ; or, 
philosophy in familiar conversations ; designed to teach young 
children to think. By Richard G. Parker : 16mo 150p — New 
York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1850 ; deposited by 
A. S. Barnes & Co., 20 April, 1850. 

Paterson (John, A. M.) The Calculus of Operations. By John Paterson, 
A.M.: 8vo 184p — Albany, published by Gray & Sprague, 
1850; deposited by J. Paterson, 25 November 3850. 

Pathfinder. The Pathfinder Railway Guide for the New England States ; 
containing official Time-Tables of the Railway Companies, 
with stations, distances, fares, &c., and other important infor- 
mation respecting Railway, Steamboat and Stage Routes, 
throughout New England. Accompanied by a complete Rail" 
w^ay Map. Nos. 9 — 19 ; February — December, 1850. Pub- 



269 [ 1 ] 

lished on the First Monday in every month, under anthority 
and direction of the New Enghand Association of Riuh-oad 
Su})erintendents. A. E. Newton, Editor — ]Joston : Snow & 
Wilder, publishers ; deposited, monthly, by George K. kSnow &, 
Silas W. Wilder. 

Pebbles by the Sea-Shore ; or, Li/zie's First Gleanings. By a Father : 16mo 
12(ip — Philadelphia, Geo. S. Appleton, 1801; deposited by 
Geo. S. Appleton, 2 October 1S50. 

Perkins (George R.) Perkins Series. A Primary Arithmetic, combining 
Mental with written Exercises ; Introductory to the Elementary 
Arithmetic. By Geo. R. Perkins, A. M. : 16mo IGOp — Hart- 
ford, published by H. H. Hawley & Co., IboO ; deposited by 
George R. Perkins, 21 January 1850. 

Phillips (Willard) Propositions concerning Protection and Free Trade. 
By Willard Phillips: 12mo 2o3p — Boston, published by Little 
&" Brown, 18-')0; deposited by W. Phillips, 10 June 18o0. 

Phillipps (S. March, Esq.,) A treatise on the Law of Evidence, Sixth 
American, from the ninth London edition, with considerable al- 
terations and additions. By S. March Phillipps, Esq.; in three 
volumes. With notes to the first and second volmnes. By Esek 
Cowen, assisted by Nicholas Hill, Jr., [and with notes to the 
third volume by a counsellor at law,] with additional notes and 
references to the English and American cases, to the present 
time, by J. Marsden Van Cott. Third edition: 8vo- large, 
vol 1, o30p ; vol 2, 647p ; vol o, 452p — New York, publish- 
ed by Banks, Gould & Co., and by Gould, Banks & Gould, 
Albany, 1849; deposited by Banks, Gould & Co., 1 February, 
• 1850. [The notes to volumes one and two are separately 
printed, with distinct title page and pagination, in two parts: 
part one, notes to vol 1, 704]i; part two, notes to vol.2, 967p. 
The notes to vol. o, are published in connection with the volume- 
without a distinct title, but separately paged — the index is 
paged continuously with the notes, and the notes and index to 
vol 3, form 371 pages. The whole work (as bound,) makes 
five volumes.] 

PiERPONT (Rev. John) Pierpont's Second Reader. The Young Reader ; to 
follow "The Little Learner;" or, Rudiments of Reading. By 
John Pierpont. Revised, enlarged and imjiroved : 16mo 192]> 

— New York, published l)y George F. Cooledge & Brother, 
1850; deposited by John Pierpont, 21 June 1850. 

Pilgrim's Progress (The) for the Young : with illustrations : Kiino IGOj) 

— Philadelphia, Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850 ; deposited by 
Lindsay & Blakiston, 31 July 1850. 

PiXNEO (T. S., M. J).,) Eclectic Educational »^eries. Pinneo's Analytical 
(rranunar of the English language, designed for schools. By 
T. S. Pinneo. Stereotvpe edition: 8vo2lf)p — Cinciimati, pub- 
lished by W\ B. Smith & Co., 1850; deposited by VV. B. 
Smith, 24 June 1850. 

PoE (Edgar Allan) The works of the late Eilgar A. Poc : with notices of 
his life and genius. By N. P. Willis, J. R. Lowell, and R. W. 



[1] 



270 



Griswold. In two volumes. Vol, 1, Tales. Vol. 2, Poems and 
Miscellanies : 12mo vol 1, 483p ; vol 2, 495p — New York, 
published by J. S. Redfield, 1850 ; deposited by J. S. Redfield, 
21 Jamiary'1850. 

Practical Writing Book (The) In three parts. By an Old Teacher. 
Nos. 1, 2 : published by Brown & Parsons, Hartford ; deposi- 
ted by F. A. Brown, 21 December 1850. 

Pragay (Johann) The Hungarian Revolution. Outlines of the prominent 
circumstances, attending the Hungarian struggle for freedom ; 
with brief biographies, sketches of leading statesmen and gene- 
rals who took part in it. By Johann Pragay : 12mo 176p — 
New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850 ; deposited by 
G. P. Putnam, 29 April, 1850. 

Price (Joseph M.) Interest Tables, at 5, 6 & 7 per cent, per annum ; each 
rate exhibiting the interest on all sums from one dollar to ten 
thousand dollars, from one to three hundred and sixty-five 
days ; computed at three hundred and sixty days per annum, 
three hundred and sixty-five per annum, and by months and 
days. By Joseph M. Price; folio 182p — New York, published 
by W. W. Rose, 1850 ; deposited by Joseph M. Price, 13 May 
1850. 

Programme of Mademoiselle Jenny Lind's Concert, with the words of the 
airs in Italian, German, Swedish, and English ; pamphlet : 8vo 
— deposited by William Van Norden «&, Frank Leslie, 17 Sep- 
tember 1850. 

PuLSiFER (John S.) Phonal Depot. [A Periodical " intended to simplify 
the present Orthography of the Language by using a new set 
of characters," &c., printed partly in a new chardtter and 
partly in Roman : 12 Nos. 4to, in all 48p — Orwigsburg, 1848. 
With 28 promiscuous publications, mostly in the New Alphabet, 
pasted upon the leaves, the whole bound in one volume.] By 
John S. Pulsifer ; deposited by John S. Pulsifer, 23 August 
1850. 

[Five printed sheets containing a new alphabet, called 
the Aubaot. By John S. Pulsifer ; deposited by John S. Pul- 
sifer.] 

Putnam (John Phelps) United States Digest ; being a Digest of Decisions 
of the Courts of Common Law, Equity and Admiralty in the 
United States. By John Phelps Putnam of the Boston Bar ; 
Vol. 3, Annual Digest for 1849 : 8vo large, 581p — Boston, 
Little & Brown, 1^50 ; deposited by Little & Brown, 18 July 
1850. 

Rawson (Rev. James, A. M.) A Dictionary of Synonymical Terms of the 
Eno-lish Language. By Rev. James Rawson, A. M: 12mo 
216p — Philadelphia, published by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850; 
deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 26 March 1850. 

Reed (Stephen, Esq., A. M., &c.) Points and Arguments on the great Pro- 
phetic Periods, &c., &c., maintaining their termination in 1850. 
By Stephen Reed, Esq., A. M., &c., Counsellor at Law : 8vo 



271 [ 1 ] 

26p — New York : Tribune Office, 1850 ; deposited by S. Reed, 
2 August, 18.30. 

Reese (John J., M. D.) The American Medical Formulary: based upon 
the United States and British Pharmacopoeias. Including also 
numerous Standard Formuhe, derived from American and Eu- 
ropean Authorities. Together with the medical properties and 
uses of medicines ; poisons, their antidotes ; tests, &c. De- 
signed for the medical and Pharmaceutical Student. By John 
J. Reese, M. D. : 12mo 3o7p — Philadelphia, published by 
Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850 : deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 
26 March 1850. 

Rhymes for the Nursery. By the Authors of " Original Poems." A new 
Illustrated Edition : 16mo 64p — Philadelphia, Geo. S. Apple- 
ton, 164 Chestnut Street, 1851 ; deposited by Geo. S. Apple- 
ton, 2 October 1850. 

Richards (William C.) The Shakspeare Calendar ; or, Wit and Wisdom 
for every day in the year. Edited by W. C. Richards : lomo 
118p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850; depo- 
sited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850. 

Richardson (Major) The Monk Knight of St. John : a tale of the Cru- 
sades. By Major Richardson, Knight of St. Ferdinand, &c. ; 
8vo 192p — New York, Dewitt & Davenport, Tribune build- 
ings, 1850 ; deposited by Dewitt & Davenport, 28 September 
1850. 

Rickey (Anna S.) Forest Flowers of the West. By Anna S. Rickey : 12mo 
138p — Philadelphia, Lindsay & Blakiston, 1851; deposited 
by Lindsay & Blakiston, 18 December 1850. 

Robinson Crusoe's Farmyard ; designed to accompany the Game of Na- 
tural History for children : 16mo 228p — New York, published 
by G. P. Putnam, 1850 ; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 
1H.30. 

Robinson (E.) Legal Forms for the transaction of business, adapted to the 
use of all men, whether in public or private life ; also, a set of 
Tax and Interest Tables, together with a short system of Book 
keeping. Compiled by E. Rol)inson. Twelfth edition, revised, 
pamjjhlet, 48p — Greencastle, published by E. Robinson, 1850: 
(k'posited by E. Robinson, 10 August 1850. 

Robinson (H. N.) An Elementary Treatise on Algebra, designed as first 
lessons in that science. By H. N. Robinson. Second edition : 
12mo — Cincinnati, J. Ernst, 1850 ; deposited by 11. N. Rob- 
inson, 18 July 1850. 

Elements of Geometry, plane and spherical Trigonome- 
try, and Conic sections. By If. N. llobinson : 8vo 335p — 
Cincinnati, published by Jacob Ernst, 1850; deposited by H. 
N. Robinson, 14 June 1850. 
RoLLO learning to Talk. Anew edition, revised by the Author: 12mo 
179p — Philadelphia, published by Hogan & 'J'hompson, 1850 ; 
(k'posited by Ilogan & Thompson, 13 Nov., 1850. 

RoLLO learning to Read. A new edition, revised by the Author : 12mo 



[ 1 ] 272 

180p — Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850 : 
deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 Nov., 1850. 

RoLLO at Play. A new edition, revised by the Author: 12mo 191p — 
Phil adelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; depo- 
sited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 Nov., 1850. 

RoLLo at Work. A new edition, revised by the Author : 12mo 191p — 
Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson ; deposited by 
Hogan & Thompson, 13 Nov., 1850. 

RoLLO at School. A new edition, revised by the Author — Philadelphia, 
published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; deposited by Hogan 
& Thompson, 13 November, 1850. 

RoLLo's Vacation. A new edition, revised by the Author : 12mo lOlp — 
Philadelphia, published by Hogan &, Thompson, l'd50; depc- 
sited by Hogan & Thompson, 13 November, 1850. 

RoLLo's Correspondence. A new edition, revised by the Author : 12mo 
189p — Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; 
deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 19 November, 1850. 

RoLLo's. Experiments. A new edition, revised by the Author : 12mo 
180p — Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; 
deposited by Hogan & Thompson, 19 November, 1850. 

RoLLo's Museum. A new edition, revised by the Author : 12mo 187p — 
Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; depo- 
sited by Hogan & Thompson, 19 November, 1850. 

RoLLo's Travels. A new edition, revised by the Author : 12mo 189p — 
Philadelphia, published by Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; depo- 
sited by Hogan &. Thompson, 19 November, 1850. 

Rosa's Childhood; or, the Influence of Principle. By the author of 
" Home Life" : 16mo 107p — Philadelphia, American Sunday 
School Union, 1850 ; deposited by American Sunday School 
Union, 24 August, 1850. 

RuFFNER (Henry.) The Fathers of the Desert ; or, an account of the 
origin and practice of Monkery among Heathen Nations ; its 
passage into the Church ; and some wonderful stories of the 
Fathers, concerning the Primitive Monks and Hermits. Bv 
Henry Ruffner: 2 Vols., 12mo — Vol. 1, 302p, Vol. 2, 313p — 
New York, published by Baker 8c Scribner, 1850 ; deposited by 
Baker & Scribner, 9 October, 1850. 

Rural Hours. By a Lady : 12mo 521p — New York, George P. Putnam, 
153 Broadway, 1850; deposited by J. Fennimore Cooper, 20 
August, 1850. 

Saintine (H. B.) Woman's Whims ; oi-, The Female Barometer. Trans- 
lated from the French of H. B. Saintine, by Fayette Robinson; 
12mo 98p — New York, published by Baker &, Scribner, 1850; 
deposited by ]Jaker & Scribner, 25 April 1850. 

Sande.vn- (.Jules) Money Bags and Titles ; a Hit at the Follies of the 
Age. Translated from the French of Jules Sandean by 
Leonard Myers: 12mo 216p — Philadelphia, published by Lip- 
pincott, Grambo & Co., 1850 ; deposited by L. Myers, May 
1850. 



273 [ 1 ] 

Sandford (Hon. Lewis H.) Reports of Cases argued and determined in the 
Court of Chancery of the State of New York, before the Hon. 
Lewis H. Sandford, hite Vice-Chancellor of the First Circuit. 
Vol. 4: 8vo large 8L0p — New York, published by Banks, 
Gould & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Banks, Gould &, Co., 8 Jan- 
uary 1850. 

ScHREiNER (Henry) and Stewart (Franklin, M. D.) The American Guager, 
simplified and complete. Designed for the use of every Mer- 
chant in the country, as well as in large cities, and as useful as 
scales or yard sticks. By Henry Schreiner, of Reading, Penn- 
sylvania, and Franklin Stewart, M. D., of Philadelphia: 12rao 
128p — Philadelphia, printed by W. S. Young, 1850 ; depos- 
ited by Schreiner & Stewart, 12 April 1850. 

SciiwARz (Rabbi Joseph) A descriptive Geography and brief historical 
Sketch of Palestine. By Rabbi Joseph Schwarz, for sixteen 
years a resident in the Holy Land. Translated by Isaac 
Leeser, one of the editoi-s of the new edition of the Hebrew Bi- 
ble, &c. Illustrated with maps and numerous engravings : 8vo 
518p — Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, 56l6-[1850] ; de- 
posited by A. Hart, 10 August, 1850. 

Sculpture : and the Plastic Art. Compiled by the author of the History 
of the art of Painting. [Pickering Dodge, Esq.:] 12mo 353p 
— Boston, published by John P. Jewett, 1850 ; deposited by 
J. P. Jewett, 14 March 1850. 

Sears (Barnas, D. D.) The Life of Luther ; with special reference to its 
earlier periods and the opening scenes of the Reformation. By 
Barnas Sears, D. D. : 12mo 528p — Philadelphia, American 
Sunday School Union : deposited by the American Sunday 
School Union, 24 August 1850. 

Seaworthy (Gregory) Nag's Head ; or, two months among " the Bankers." 
A story of sea-shore life and manners. By Gregory Seaworthy ; 
12mo 180p — Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, 1850 ; depo- 
sited by A. Hart, 15 August 1850. 

Sedgewick (C. M.) Clarence ; or, a tale of our own times. By the author 
of "Hope Leslie," &c., [C. M. Sedgewick] : author's revised 
edition, complete in one volume : 12mo 515p — New York, 
published by G. P. Putnam; deposited by C. M. Sedgewick, 29 
April 1850. 

Seron (T.) Mosa'ique Francaise : ou Choix de Sujets anecdotiques, histo- 
riqucs, litteraires et scientifiques : tires pour la plupart d' Au- 
teurs Modernes : par T. Seron: 12mo 23Gp — Phi]adi'l[)hia, 
Lindsay & Blakiston, 1850 ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 
1 November 1850. 

Seymour (K. S.) Sketches of Minnesota, the New England of llie West. 
With incidents of travel in that territory during the sunmier of 
1849. In two parts. Jjv E. S. Seymour. With a map: 12mo 
281p — New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1850 ; 
deposited by Harper & Brothers, 7 March 1850. 
Mis.— 18. 



[ I ] 274 

Sherwood (Henry Hall, M. D.) The Magnetic Organization of the Human 
System, and its application to the cure of chronic diseases. By 
Henry Hall Sherwood. Abridged from his larger works, by H* 
H. Sherwood's successors, 102 Chambers street. New York, 
1849 : 8vo pamphlet, 16p — New York, printed at the steam 
printing office ; deposited by William Larned, 15 March 1850, 

Manual for Magnetizing, with the vibrating^ 
Magnetic Machine, and for the magnetic duodynamic treatment 
of disease ; with a brief synopsis of Animal Magnetism, Homeo^ 
pathy and Allopathy, with anatomical and other illustrations- 
By H. H. Sherwood, M.D. ; Fourteenth edition ; Revised by H. 
H. Sherwood's successors, 102 Chambers street, New York ; 
16mo 372p — New York, published by Fowlers & Wells, 1850j 
deposited by William Larned, 15 March 1850. 

The Motive power of the Human System^ 
with the Duodynamic symptoms and treatment of Chronic dis- 
eases. By H. H. Sherwood, M. D. Revised by H. H. Sher- 
wood's successor, W^illiam Larned ; Sixteenth edition, enlarged i 
8vo 206p — New York, published by the proprietor, 1850 ; 
deposited by William Larned, 15 March 1850. 
SiGOURNEY (Mrs. L. H.) Poems for the Sea. By Mrs. L. H. Sigourney s 
12mo 152p — Hartford, published by H. S. Parsons & Co., 
1850 ;. deposited by H. S. Parsons & Co., 6 May 1850. 

Whisper to a Bride. By Mrs. L. H. Sigourney ; 
16mo 48p — Hartford, published by H. S. Parsons & Co., 1850 ; 
deposited by H. S. Parsons & Co.," 6 May 1850. 

SiMMS (W. Gilmore, Esq.) The Lily and the Totem ; or, the Huguenots ill 
Florida. A series of Sketches, picturesque and historical, of 
the Colonies of Coligni, in North America, 1562-1570. By 
the author of " The Yemassee," " Life of Marion," " Life of 
Bayard," &c. [W. Gilmore Simms.] Second edition : 8vo 470p 
— New York, Baker & Scribner ; deposited by William Gilmorj& 
Simms, Esq., 9 October, 1850. 

The Life of Nathaniel Green, Major General 
in the Army of the Revolution. Edited by W. Gilmore Siramsfv, 
Esq.: 12mo 393p — New York, published by Geo. T. Cooledge 
& Bro. ; deposited by G. T. Cooledge & Bro., 21 March 1850. 

Sloman (Jane) The Melodist. Selected gems from celebrated composers-, 
arranged for the use of female seminaries. In one, two, three-, 
and four parts, with an accompaniment for the piano forte. By 
Jane Sloman. The pieces contained in this work may all to 
sung as solos — the melody being always complete in the first 
part, and the other parts ad. lil). : oblong, 4to 112p — New 
York, published by William Hall & Son. : deposited by Wil- 
liam Hall & Son, 1 March 1850. 

Smedes (W. C.) and Marshall (T. A.) Reports of cases, argued and de» 
termined in the High Court of Errors and Appeals for the State 
of Mississippi. By W. C. Smedes & T. A. Marshall, of Vicks- 
burg ; Reporters to the State : 8vo large, 851p — Boston, pub«- 



275 [ i ] 

lished by Charles C. Little & James Brown, 1850 ; deposited 
by W. C. Smedes & T. A. Marshall, 10 September 1850. 
Smith (Asa) Smith's Illustrated Astronomy, designed for the use of public 
or common schools in the United States. Illustrated with nu- 
merous original diagrams. By Asa Smith ; sixth edition : 4to 
68p — New York, Cady & Burgess, 1850 ; deposited by Asa 
Smith, 17 December 1850. 

An abridgement of Smith's illustrated Astronomy, designed 
for the use of junior classes in the public or common schools in 
the United States. By Asa Smith. Fifth edition : 12mo 72p 
— New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850 ; deposited 
by Asa Smith, 17 December 1850. 

Smith (E. Fitch) Reports of cases argued and determined in the English 
court of Chancery, with notes and references to both English 
and American decisions. By E. Fitch Smith, Counsellor at 
Law. Vol, 21, containing Younge and Collyer's Reports; 
Vol. 2, ("being as by second title page.] Reports of cases 
decided in the High court of Chancery by the Rt. Hon. Sir J. 
L. Knight Bruce, Vice Chancellor. By Edward Younge, of 
the Middle Temple, Esq.. and John Collyer, of Lincoln's Inn, 
Esq., Barrister at Law. With notes and references to both 
English and American decisions. By E. Fitch Smith, Counsel- 
lor at Law. Vol. 2, Michaelmas term, 1842, to Hilary term, 
1844 : 8vo 681p — New York, Banks, Gould & Co., 1850; 
Albany, Gould, Banks & Gould ; deposited by Banks, Gould & 
Co., 19 November 1850. 

Smith (Henry H., M. D.) Minor Surgery ; or, Hints on the every-day du- 
ties of the Surgeon. By Henry H. Smith, M. D., &c. Third 
edition, with numerous additions. Illustrated by two-hundred 
and forty-seven engravings : 12mo 456p — Philadelphia, Ed- 
mund Barrington & George D. Hasweil ; deposited by Barring- 
ton & Hasweil, 23 October 1850. 

Smith (Phineas A.) Every Body's Book. The Bible view of the Soul ; 
Personality of God, the Devil, his origin, personality and doom; 
also an exposition of the spiritual rapping. By Phineas A. 
Smith: 12mo 96p — Rochester, N. Y., published by Smith & 
Clough, 1850 ; deposited by P. A. Smith, 14 June 1850. 
(Po5well C, A. M.) An Introductory Geography, designed for 
children; illustrated with one hundred and twenty-six engra- 
vings, and twenty maps. Tenth edition. By Roswell C. Smith, 
A.M.: 16mo 176p — New York, published hy Cady & Bur- 
gess, 1850 ; deposited by Roswell C. Smitli, 17 December, 
1850. 
Improved Edition. A Concise and Practical System of Geography, 
for common schools, academies and famili^^s ; designed as a 
sequel to the " First Book." Illustrated with thirty steel maps 
and numerous engravings. By Roswell C. Smith, A.M. Thir- 
teenth edition : 4to 76p — New York, Cady & Burgess, 1850 ; 
deposited by Roswell C. Smith, 17 DecchduT, 1850. 

Geography, on the Pio.luctive System, fax 



[ 1 ] 276 

schools, academies and families; revised and improved. Ac- 
companied by a large and valuable Atlas. By Roswell C. 
Smith : 12mo 312p — New York, published by Cady & Bur- 
gess, 1850 ; deposited by Daniel Burgess, 17 December, 
1850. 

Smith (Roswell C, A. M.) Improved Edition. Smith's Atlas; designed 
to accompany the Geography. By R. C. Smith, A. M. : 4to — 
New York, 1850, Cady & Burgess ; deposited by Daniel Bur- 
gess, 17 December, 1850. 

Smith's Third Book in Arithmetic. Arithme- 
tic on the Productive System ; accompanied by a Key and Cu- 
bical Blocks. By Roswell C. Smith. Stereotype Edition : 
12mo Slip — New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; 
deposited by John Paine, 17 December, 1850. 

A Key to Smith's New Arithmetic ;containing 
operations of all the examples in that work performed at length, 
with the reasons fully stated, wherever there is the least ap- 
pearance of labor or difficulty. Designed to lessen the burden 
of Teachers. By Roswell C. Smith: r2mo 134p — New York, 
published by Cady & Burgess, 1850 ; deposited by John Paine, 
17 December 1850. 

Smith's Introductory Arithmetic. The Little 
Federal Calculator : consisting of questions and tables to em- 
ploy the mind and fingers only ; designed particularly to go 
before the slate and to prepare for it. By Roswell C. Smith. 
Stereotyped Edition: 16rao 72p — New York, published by 
Cady & Burgess, 1850 ; deposited by Roswell C. Smith, 17 
December 1850. 

Practical and Mental Arithmetic, on a new 
Plan : in which Mental Arithmetic is combined with the use of 
the slate ; containing a complete system for all practical pur- 
poses ; being in dollars and cents. Sereotype Edition, revised 
and enlarged, with exercises for the slate. To which is added 
a practical System of Book-Keeping. By Roswell C. Smith : 
12mo 282p — New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; 
deposited by Roswell C. Smith, 17 December 1850. 

A Key to the " Practical and Mental Arithme- 
tic ;" for the use Teachers. By Roswell C. Smith : 12mo 
168p — New York, published by Cady & Burgess, 1850; de- 
posited by Carter, Hendee & Co., 17 December, 1850. 
Smyth (Rev. Thomas, D. D.) The Unity of the Human Races, proved to 
be the doctrine of Scripture, Reason, and Science ; with a review 
of the present position and theory of Prof. Agassiz. By the 
Rev. Thomas Smyth, D. D. : 12mo 395p — New York, George 
P. Putnam, 1850 ; deposited by George P. Putnam, 20 August, 
1850. 

SxELL (Daniel W.) The Manager's Assistant ; being a condensed Treatise 
on the Cotton Manuficture, with suitable explanations, &c. To 
which are added various calculations, tables, comparisons, &c., 
of service to the manufacturer and general reader. By Daniel 



277 [ 1 ] 

W. Snell: 12rao 184p — Hartford, press of Case, Tiffany & 
Co., 1850; deposited by Daniel W. Snell, 7 December, 1850. 

Snow Flake (The) ; A Christmas, New Year, and IJirthday Gift, (qt 1851 : 
12mo 330p — Philadelphia, published by E. H. Butler & Co., 
1851 ; deposited by E. H. Butler & Co.,' 7 December, 1850. 

Snow (George K.) Boston Monthly Express List, and Forwarder's Guide ; 
a hand book of expresses, telegraphs, mails, packets, steamers, 
stages, omnibuses, railway freight trains, &c. &c. No. 4, Feb- 
ruary, 1850 : 12mo — Boston, published by Snow & Wilder ; 
deposited by Snow & Wilder, 14 February. 1850. 

SoMERViLLE (Mary) Physical Geography. By Mary Somerville. Second 
American from the new and revised London Edition. With Ad- 
ditions and a Glossary prepared for this Edition; 12mo 540p — 
Philadelphia, published by Lea & Blanchard, 1850 ; deposited 
by Lea & Blanchard, 5 February 1850. 

Southern Medical Reports ; consisting of General and Special Reports on 
the Medical Topography, Meteorology and Prevalent Diseases 
in the following States: Louisiana, Alabama, Mississippi, North 
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Arkansas, Ten- 
nessee, Texas. To be published annually. Edited by E. D. 
Fenner, M. D., of New Orleans, vol. I,'l849: 8vo 472p — 
New Oi-leans, B. M. Norman ; New York, Samuel S. & Wil- 
liam Wood, 1850; deposited by E. D. Fenner, M. D., 19. No- 
vember 1850. 

Spencer (Ichabod S., D. D.) Fugitive Slave Law. The Religious Duty 
of Obedience to Law ; A Sermon preached in the Second Pres- 
byteiian Church in Brooklyn, November 24, 1850. By Icha- 
bod S. Spencer, D. D., pamphlet ; 8vo 31p — New York, pub- 
lished by M. W. Dodd, 1850; deposited by Ichabod S. Spencer, 
D. D., 7 December 1850. 

A Pastor's Sketches : or, Conversations with 
anxious Inquirers, respecting the Way of Salvation. By 
Ichabod S. Spencer, D. D. : 12mo 414p — New York, pub- 
lished by M. W. Dodd, 1850; deposited by Ichabod S. Spencer, 

7 November 1850. 

Spencer (Rev. .J. A., M. A.) The East ; Sketches of Travel in Egypt and 
the Holy Land. By the Rev. J. A. S])encer. Elegantly illus- 
trated with original drawings : 8vo large, 503p — New York, 
))ublished by G. P. Putnam, 1850 ; de})0sited by J. A. Spencer, 
20 April, 1850. 

Sprague (Charles.) The Poetical and Prose Writings of Charles Sprague. 
New and revised edition : Kimo 205p — Boston, ))ublished by 
Ticknor, Reed & Fields, ls50 ; deposited by Charh'S Sjirague, 

8 January, 1850. 

Stoddard (.lohn F.) The American Intellectual Arithmetic; designed for 
the use of schools and academies ; containing an extensive col- 
lection of practical questions, with concise and original methods 
of solution, which sim])lify many of the most important rules 
in written arithmetic. By John F. Stodchu'd. Sixteenth edi- 



[1] 



278 



tion : 16mo 164p — New York, published by Nafis & Cornish, 
1850 ; deposited by John F. Stoddard, 9 October, 1850. 

Stoddard (J. F.) The Juvenile Mental Arithmetic ; designed for the use 
of primary and common schctols. Being also an introduction 
to the "American Intellectual Arithmetic, containing an exten- 
sive collection of practical questions, with concise and original 
methods of solution, which simplify many of the most impor- 
tant rules of written arithmetic." By John F. Stoddard : IGmo 
72p — New York, published by Naiis & Cornish, 1850: depo- 
sited by Nafis & Cornish, 9 October, 1850. 

Stories of School Boys: 12mo 150p — Philadelphia, American Sunday 
School Union, 1850 ; deposited by American Sunday School 
Union, 24 August, 1850. 

Swan (Joseph R.) A treatise on the Law relating to the powers and duties 
of justices of the peace and constables, in the State of Ohio ; 
with practical forms, &c., &c. By Joseph R. Swan. Fourth 
edition, revised, corrected and enlarged: 8vo large, 606p — 
Columbus, published by Isaac N. Whiting, 1850; deposited by 
Isaac N. Whiting, 24 January 1850. 

The Practice in civil actions and Proceedings at Law, 
in Ohio, and precedents in pleading, with practical notes ; 
together with the form of process and clerk's entries. By Joseph 
R. Swan. In two volumes, vol. 2: 8vo large, 740p — Colum^ 
bus, published by I. N. Whiting, 1850 ; deposited by I, N. 
Whiting, 27 May 1850. 

Talvi [Pseud, for Mrs. Edward Robinson, formerly Theresa Adolfino, 
Louisa von Jacob] Historic view of the languages and litera- 
ture of the Slavic Nations ; with a sketch of their popular 
poetry. By Talvi, [Mrs. Robinson.] With a preface by Ed- 
ward Robinson, D. D. LL. D. : 12mo 412p — New York, 
published by George P. Putnam, 1850; deposited by Edward 
Robinson, 29 April 1850. 

Taylor (Bayard) Eldorado; or, adventures in the Path of Empire; com- 
prising a voyage to California, via Panama ; life in San Fran- 
cisco and Monterey ; pictures of the gold region, and experi-^ 
ences of Mexican travel. By Bayard Taylor. With illustra-^ 
tions by the author ; 2 volumes. Second edition : 12mo Vol. 1, 
251p ; Vol. 2, 224p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 
1850 ; deposited by B. Taylor, 20 August, 1850. 

Taylor (Mrs. Jane) Primary Lessons in Physiology; for Children. By 
Mrs. Jane Taylor. New edition, revised and enlarged : 16mo 
128p — New York, published by George F. Cooledge & 
Brother. 

Tefft (B. F.) The Shoulder-Knot ; or. Sketches of the Threefold Life 
of Man : a Story of the 17th Century. By B. F. Tefft : 12mo 
305p — New York, published by Harper '& Brothers, 1850; 
deposited by Harper & Brothers, 20 June 1850. 

Tensas (Madison, M. D.) Odd Leaves from the Life of a Louisiana 
" Swamp Doctor." By Madison Tensas, M. D. : 12mo 203p 



279 [ 1 ] 

— Philadelphia, published by A. Hart, 1850; deposited by 
A. Hart, 27 April, 1850. 
Theological and Literary Journal. Edited by David N. Lord. Nos. 7- 
10, January-October, 1^50 : New York, published by Frank- 
lin Knight: 8vo — deposited by David N. Lord; No. 7,16 
March, Nos. 8 and 9, 12 August, No. 10, October, 1850. 

Theremin (Dr. Francis) Eloquence, a Virtue : or, Outlines of a Systematic 
Rhetoric. Translated from the German of Dr. Francis There.- 
min by William G. T. Shedd : 12mo 162p — New York, pul>- 
lished by John Wiley, 1850 ; deposited by John Wiley, 29 
January 1850. 

Three Royal Magi (The); or, the Journey to Bethlehem. By the Author 
' of " The Blind Orphan Boy."" Translated, altered, and ar- 
ranged by C. E. Blumenthal, A. M., 12mo 192p — Philadelphia, 
published by Henry Perkins, 1850 ; deposited by Henry Per- 
kins, 8 Apri'l 1850. 

Ticknor (George) History of Spanish Literature. By George Ticknor ; in 
3 vols: Svo large, vol. 1, 568p; vol. 2, 552p; vol. 3, 549p — 
New York, published by Harper & Brothers, 1849 ; deposited 
by George Ticknor, 12 January 1850. 

Tower (David B., A. M.,) The Gradual Primer, or Primary School Enun- 
ciator. Part 1, The Child's First step, taken in the right 
place- By David B. Tower, A. M. Seventh edition : 16mo 
70p — New York, Cady & Burgess. Boston, W. J. Reynolds 
1850 ; deposited by David B. Tower, 17 December 1850. 

The Gradual Speller and complete Enunciator ; 
showing the orthography and orthoepy of all words in common 
use, anil in the forms in which they usually occur ; arranged in 
accordance not only Math the vowel sounds, but also with the 
consonant elements, and their various combinations ; giving -a 
correct pronunciation and a distinct articulation, as well as the 
orthography of the English language. By David B. Tower, 
A. M. Seventh edition : 12mo l(30p — New York, published 
by Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by Daviil B. Tower, 17 
December 1850. 

Introduction to the Gradual Reader; or. Pri- 
mary school Enunciator, Part 2. The Child's second step, 
taken at the right time. By J)avid B. Tower, A. M. Seventh 
edition : 12mo 180p — New York, published by Cady & Bur- 
gess, 1850 ; deposited by David B. Tgkver, 17 December 1850. 

The Gradual Reader. First Step, or Exercises 

in Articulation ; designed to develop and strengthen the organs 
of speech, and to facilitate the correct utterance of the elemen- 
tary sounds and their combinations, With suui)le reading lessons 
for pupils in the younger classes. By David B. Tower, A. M. 
Enlarged and improved edition : 12mo ]r)8p — New York, pul>- 
lished by Cady & Burgess, 1850; deposited by David B. Tower, 
17 December; 1850. 

Intermediate Reader ; or, Piiinary School First 
CJass Book; with elementary exercises in articulation, and the 



[1] 



280 



first principles of elocution ; designed to follow the " Introduc- 
tion," and to precede the " Gradual Reader." By David B. 
Tower, A. M. 12mo 162p — New York, Cady & Burgess — 
Boston, W. J. Reynolds & Co., 1850; deposited by David B. 
Tower, 17 December, 1850. 

Tower (David B., A. M.) Gradual Lessons in Grammar ; or, Guide to the 
Construction of the English language, by the analysis and com- 
position of sentences. By D. B. Tower, A.M., [to which is added 
as by second title page,] Sequel to Gradual Lessons in Gram- 
mar. By David B. Tower, and Benjamin F. Tweed : 12mo 
28Sp — New York, published by Cady & Burgess ; Boston, 
W. J. Reynolds & Co., 1850; deposited by David B. Tow^r, 
17 December 1850. 

Intellectual Algebra ; or, Oral Exercises in Al- 
gebra ; for Common Schools, in which all the operations are 
limited to such small numbers as not to embarrass the reasoning 
powers, but on the inductive plan, to lead the pupil understand- 
ingly, step by step, to higher mental efforts ; adapted to pre- 
pare the pupil for the study of written Arithmetic, and designed 
to be introductory to higher treatises on Algebra. By David 
B. Tower, A.M. Seventh edition : 12mo 280p — New York, 
published by Cady & Burgess, 1850 ; deposited by David B, 
Tower, 17 December 1850. 

Tower (David B.) and Walker (C.) North American First Class Reader ; 
the fifth book of Tower's Series for Common Schools, in which 
the higher principles of elocution are exjilained and illustrated 
by appropriate exercises ; designed to follow the " Practical 
Reader." By David B. Tower, A. M., and Cornelius Walker, A. 
M. Third edition : 12mo 426p — New York, Cady & Burgess — 
Boston, Benjamin B. Mussey & Co., 1850 ; deposited by the 
authors, 17 December, 1850. 

North American Second class Reader; the Fourth 
book of Tower's series for Common schools, developing princi- 
ples of Elocution, practically illustrated by elementary Exer- 
cises ; with Reading Lessons, in which references are made to 
these principles : designed to follow the "Gradual Reader." By 
David B. Tower, A. M., and Cornelius Walker, A. M. Third 
edition : 12mo 276p — New York, Cady & Burgess ; Boston, 
Benjamin B. Mussey & Co., 1850 ; deposited by the authors, 
17 December 1850. 

Tremadeur (S. Ulliac.)whe Story of Jean Marie. Translated from the 
French of M'lle. S. Ulliac Tremadeur, by Rev. E. Goodrich 
Smith: 16mo 107p — Hartford, published by H. S. Parsons & 
Co., 1850 ; "deposited by H. S. Parsons & Co., 6 May, 1850. 

Tupper (Martin Farquhar.) Proverbial Philosephy ; a Book of Thoughts 
and Arguments, originally treated. By Martin Farquhar Tup- 
per, D. C. L., F. R. S., of Christ Church, Oxford ; with an 
Essay on the philosojihy of Proverbs, and additional notes, with 
twelve illustrations: 12mo 276p — Philadelphia, published by 
E. H. Butler & Co., 1851 ; deposited by E. H. Butler k Co., 
7 December, 1850. 



281 [ 1 ] 

Turning Point (The). A Book for Thinking Boys and Girls : 12mo 52p — 
Pliiladelphia, American Sunday School Union, 1850; deposited 
hy the American Sunday School Union, 24 August 18f50. 

TuTHiLL (Mrs. L. C.) Success in Life ; the Lawyer. By Mrs. L. C Tut- 
hill : 12mo 177p — New York, puldished hy G. P. Putnam, 
1850 ; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April, 1850. 

Success in Life ; the Merchant. By Mrs. L. C. Tuthill; 
12mo 188p — New York, published by'G. P. Putnam, 1850; 
deposited by G. P. Putnam, 29 April, 1850. 

Twelve Stars (The) of our Republic ; our Nation's Gift-Book to her Young 
Citizens. Elegantly Illustrated. [Containing Lives of twelve 
Presidents of the United States of America. By Edwin Wil- 
liams, and an introduction by B. J. Lossing] : 8vo 364p — New 
York, published by Edward Walker, 1850 ; deposited by Ed- 
wark Walker, 28 January, J850. 

Two Homes Compared (The), or, The Advantages of cleanliness : 12mo 
34p — Philadelphia, American Sunday School Union, 1850; 
deposited by American Sunday School Uni jn, 24 August 1850^ 

Ty!tdale (Samuel) or, the little Hero. Written for the American Sun- 
day School Union: 12mo o6p — Philadelphia, American Sun- 
day School Union, 1850 ; deposited by American Sunday School 
Union, 24 August 1850. 

Ungerwitter (Francis H.,LL. D.) Europe, Past and Present: A Compre- 
hensive Manual of European Geography and History, with 
separate descriptions and statistics of each State, and a copious 
Index, facilitating reference to every essential fact in the his- 
tory and present state of Europe. By Francis H. Ungerwitter, 
LL. D. : 12mo 671p — New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 
1850 ; deposited by G. P. Putnam, 20 August'l850. 

Virgil. The first six Books of the iEneid, together with the first, second 
and fourth Eclogues of Virgil, with explanatory notes in Eng- 
lish. Especially designed for the use of Colleges and Classical 
Schools. By R. W. McFarland, A. B. : 12mo 231p — Cin- 
cinnati, pu])lished by E. D. Truman, 1849 ; deposited by R. 
W. McFarland, 27 September 1850. 

VuLLiEMiN (L.) and (C.) The Swiss Pastor. The Life of the Rev. F. 
A. A. Goatiuer. From the French of his nephews, L. and 
C. Vulliemin : 12mo 139p — Philadel])hia, American Sunday 
School Union, 1850 ; deposited by American Sunday School 
Union, 24 August l!S50. 

Walker (Rev. Aaron G.) The lile of F. .Terringham CauflTman, a great 
American Resurrectionist I or, liobber of the Grave I I Contain- 
ing thrilling accounts of depredations upon the graves, commit- 
ted in ditl'erent sections of the country ; particulaily in the 
vicinities of our large cities and towns, such as J-*hila(lelphia, 
Boston, Baltimore, New York, Cincinnati, Portland, Pittsburg, 
Providence, Albany, Buffalo, &c. Also, an account of his 
death-bed, and confession of the foregoing. By Rev. Aaron 
G.Walker, his religious counsellor. Prefixed is a letter by 
Rev. Mr. Walker, to a physician of Philadelphia, relative 



[ 1 ] 282 

to laying the present work before the public in reply to one re- 
ceived from said physician relating to the same : Pamphlet, 8vo 
63p — Philadelphia, Walz & Ketterlinus, corner Third & 
Race streets ; deposited by D. C. Rodman, 10 September 1850. 
Wallace (John William) Cases in the Circuit court of the United States, 
for the third Cii'cuit ; with an appendix. Reported by John 
William Wallace : 8vo 161p — Philadelphia, published by 
Walker, 1849 ; deposited by A. Walker, 15 January, 1850, ' 

Ward (F. De W.) India and the Hindoos ; being a popular view of the 
Geography, History, Government, Manners, Customs, Litera~ 
ture and Religion of that ancient people, with an account of 
the Christian Missions among them. By F. De W. Ward, late 
Missionary at Madras, and member of the "American Orienta] 
Society" : 12mo 344p — New York, Baker & Scribner ; depo- 
sited by Baker & Scribner, 9 October 1850. 

Warrek (Charles) Hall's method for the Accordeon, or Accordeon without 
a Master ; containing a selection of the most fashionable Songs, 
Polkas, Waltzes, Quadrilles, &c. ; together with the elementary 
principles of Music and Instructions for learning this favorite 
instrument. By Charles W. Warren: 8vo oblong — 'New 
York, William Hall & Son, publishers, 239 Broadway, 1850^ 
deposited by William Hall & Son, 19 August 1850. 

WAxaoF (Henry C.) Camp-fires of the Revolution ; or, the War of Indepen- 
dence. Illustrated by thrilling events and stories, by the Old 
Continental soldiers. By Henry C. Watson. With original il- 
lustrations by Croome : 8vo 447p — Philadelphia, Lindsay & 
Blakiston, 1850 ; deposited by Lindsay & Blakiston, 1 Novem- 
ber 1850. 

Weir (James, Esq.,) Lonz Powers ; or, the Regulators. A romance of 
Kentucky, founded on facts. By James W. Weir, Esq. In two 
volumes : 12mo vol 1, 364p ; vol 2, 319p — Philadelphia, pub* 
lisheded by Lippincott, Grambo & Co. ; deposited by Lippin- 
cott, Grambo & Co., 28 September 1850. 

Webster (Noah, LL. D.) University edition. A Dictionary of the English 
Language ; abridged from the American Dictionary, by Noah 
Webster, LL. D. Revised edition, containing several thousand 
additional words, from the last edition of the larger work ; im- 
portant etymological rules for the orthography and pronuncia- 
tion of words, the accented vocabulnries of Walker's Key to 
the classical pronunciation of Greek, Latin, and Scripture proper 
names, tables of moneys, and of weights and measures ; with a 
memoir of the Author : 12mo large, 546p — New York, pub- 
lished by Huntington & Savage, 1850 ; deposited by Wm. W. 
Ellsworth and Henry White, 2 January, 1850. 
Academic Edition. A Dictionary of the English Language ; abridged 
from the American Dictionary of Noah Webster, LL. D. Re- 
vised edition ; containing several thousand additional words from 
the last edition of the large work ; important etymologies ; 
rules for the orthography and pronunciation of words, the ac- 
cented vocabularies of Walker's Key to the classical pronuncia- 



283 [13 

tion of Greek, Latin, and Scripture proper names ; with a 
memoir of the Author: 8vo 433p — New York, Huntington & 
Savai^-e, 1850 ; deposited by Wm. W. Ellsworth and Henry 
White, executors of Noah Webster, deceased, 4 December^ 
1850. 

Webster (Noaii, LL. D.) A High School pronouncing Dictionary of the 
English Language, abridged from the American Dictionary, by 
Noah Webster, LL. D., with accented vocabularies of classical. 
Scripture, and modern geographical names. By William G. 
Webster: 12mo 360p — New York, Huntington & Savage, 
1849; deposited by Wm. W. Ellsworth anil Henry White, 
2 Janua ry, 1850. 

A Pocket Dictionary of the English Language. 
Abridged from the American Dictionary of Noah Webster, LL.D. 
Prefixed is a collection of words, phrases, mottoes, &c., ill 
Latin and French, with Translations in English. William G. 
Webster, Editor : IGmo 249p — New York, published by 
Huntington & Savage, 1846 ; deposited by Wm. W. Ellsworth 
& Henry White, 2 January, 1850. 

A Primary School pronouncing Dictionary of 
the English Language, abridged from the American Dictionary, 
by Noah Webster, LL. D. With accented vocabularies of 
classical, scripture and modern Geograpical Names. By Wil- 
liam G. Webster: 12mo 320p — New York, Huntin-gton & 
Savage, 1849 ; deposited by William W^ Ellsworth &. Henry 
White, 2 January 1850. 

Weld (Rev. H. Hastings) The Life of Christ delineated in the series of 
events recorded in the New Testament. By Rev. H. Hastings 
Weld. Embellished by Illustrations in Tint, and Illuminations 
from original drawings byDevereux: 8vo 232p — Philadelphia, 
publishe(l by Hogan & Thompson, 1850 ; deposited by Hogan 
& Thompson, 25 January 1850. 

Wharton (Thomas I.) A digest of the reported cases adjudged in the 
several courts held in Pennsylvania. Together with some man* 
uscript cases. By Thomas I. Wharton. Fifth edition. By Fran- 
cis Wharton. In two volumes: 8vo large, Vol. 1, 925p ; 
Vol, 2, l():30p— Philadelphia, published by T. & J. W. John- 
son, 1850 ; deposited by T. & J. W. Johnson, 13 May 1850. 

Whipple (Edwin P.) Lectures on Subjects connected with Literature and 
Life. By Edwin P. Whip])le. Second edition : 16mo218p — 
Boston, pul)lished by Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 1850 ; depositexl 
by E. P. Whipple, 8 January J 850. 

White (George) Statistics of the State of Georgia : including an account 
of its natural, civil and ecclesiastical history; together with a 
particular description of each county, notices of the manners 
and customs of its aboriginal tribes, and a correct map of the 
State. By George White. [To which is added a catalogue of 
the Fauna and Flora of the State of Georgia, j)repared for this 
work by eminent naturalists] : 8vo ()24i) ; Fauna and Flora, 
77p — Savaiinah, published by W. Thorne Williams ; depo- 
sited by W. T. W^, 4 March, 1850. 



[ 1 ] 284 

Whittier (John G.) Poems, by John G. Whitticr. Illustrated by H. Bil- 
lings : 8vo large, o84p — Boston, published by Benjamin B. 
Mussey & Co., 1849 ; deposited by B. B. Mussey & Co., 25 
February 1850. 

Old Portraits and Modern Sketches. By John G, 
Whittier : 12mo 304p — Boston, Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 
1850 ; deposited by Ticknor, Reed & Fields, 8 January 1850. 

Williams' [C.S.] Cincinnati Directory and Business Advertiser for 1849-50. 
First Armual Issue: Bvo 320p — Cincinnati, published by C. 
S. Williams ; deposited by C. S. Williams, 2 March, 1850. 

Cincinnati Almanac Business Guide, and Annual Adver- 
tiser, 1850. First Issue : 12mo 200p — Cincinnati, published 
by C. S. Williams ; deposited by C. S. Williams, 2 March, 
1850. 

Cincinnati Directory and Business Advertiser, for 1850-51, 
Second annual issue : 8vo 317p — Cincinnati, C. S. Wil- 
liams, College Hall ; deposited by C. S. Williams, 12 October, 
1850. 

Williams (Edwin.) The Presidents of the United States, their Memoirs 
and Administrations, including an account of the inauguration 
of each President, and a history of the political events of his 
administration, and the transactions of Congress at each session : 
to which is added the Declaration of Independence ; Articles of 
Confederation; Constitution of the United States, with notes 
and decisions ; a brief history of the events and circumstances 
which led to the Union of the States, and formation of the Con- 
stitution ; a Synopsis of the Constitutions of the several States; 
tables of members of the cabinets, ministers to foreign coun- 
tries, and a list of members of Congress, from 1789 to 1849 ; 
statistical tables of revenue, commerce and population ; chro- 
nological table of historical events in the United States, &c. By 
Edwin Williams. Embellished with twelve portraits, engraved 
on steel : 8vo 680p — New York, published by Edward Walker, 
1849 ; deposited by Edward Walker, 28 January, 1850. 

The Statesman's Manual. The addresses and messages 
of the Presidents of the United States, inaugural, annual, and 
special, from 1789 to 1849 ; wdth a memoir of each of the Pre- 
sidents, and a history of their administrations : also, the Consti- 
tution of the United States, and a selection of important docu- 
ments and statistical information, compiled from official sources. 
By Edwin Williams. Embellished with portraits of the Presi- 
dents, engraved on steel by Vistus Balch. In four volumes. 
[Paging continuous; 1492 pages] : Svo — New York, published 
by Edward Walker, 1849 ; deposited by Edward Walker, 28 
January 1850. 

The Statesman's Manual, The addresses and messages 
of :he Presidents of the United States, inaugural, annual, and 
special, from 1789 to 1849 ; with a memoir of each of the Pre- 
sidents, and a history of their administrations : also, the Consti- 
tution of the United States, and a selection of important docu- 



285 [ 1 ] 

meiits and statistical information, compiled from official sources. 
By E (Iwin Williams. In thre'e volumes. Reference edition. 
[Pai^inf^ continuous ; 1(327 pao;es] : Svo — New York, Edward 
Wiilkei^, 114 Fulton street, 1849 ; deposited by Edward Walker, 
28 January ISoO. 

Williams (Stephen W., M. D., A. M.,) The Genealogy and history of the 
Family of the Williams in America, more particularly of the 
descendants of Robert Williams of Roxbury. By Stephen W. 
Williams, M. I)., A. M., &e : 12mo 424p — Greenfield, printed 
by iVIerriam & Mirick, 1847 ; deposited by S. W. Williams, 10 
September 1850. 

Williams (William R.) Miscellanies. By William R. Williams : Svo 391p 

— New Yoi-k, published by Edward H. Fletcher, 1850 ; depo- 
sited by Edward H. Fletcher, 25 January 1850. 

Willis (N. Parker) People I have met, or. Pictures of Society and People 
of Mark, drawn under a thin veil of fiction. By N. Parker 
Willis : 12mo 857p — New York, Baker & Scribner, 1850 .; 
deposited by Baker & Scribner, 3 January 1850. 

Willson (George) Practical System of Arithmetic, enlarged and improved; 
containing a new system of proportion, and a new method of 
solving questions in proportion with statement ; together with 
explanations of theoretical principles, and of the method of 
cancellation. By George W'illson. 14th Edition : Svo 264p — 
New York, published by Geo. F. Cooledge & Brother, 1850; 
deposited by Geo. Willson, 10 August, 1850. 

WiNTHROP (Rev. Edward) Letters on the Prophetic Scriptures. By the 
Rev. Edward Winthrop, M. D. : 16mo 175p — New York, 
published by Franklin Knight, 1850 ; deposited by Edward 
Winthrop, 20 May 1850. 

Wonderful Phenomena. Wonders of the Age! A thrilling narrative of 
the facts relating to the Dixboro' Ghost! which lately appeared 

— at nine different times — in the village of Dixboro', Washen- 

taw county, Michigan, also, the wonderful 

appearance of three Angels ! as witnessed by 

several persons of unbounded veracity, in Warwick, (C. W.) 
also, a wonderful phenomenon of the awful destruction by 
supernatural burning ! wholly consuming away ! of the notori- 
ous false prophet of this city, also, a brief 

history and description of the famous and ever sacred Pillar of 

Salt ! located upon the shore of the Dead Sea, 

as reported officially by Lieutenant Lynch, U. S. N., late of 
the Head Sea Expedition. Carefully com])iled, by Eli Curtis, 
proprietor and publisher. New York, 1850; deposited by Eli 
Curtis, 6 May ^850. 

Worcester (Joseph E.) A primary pronouncing Dictionary of the Eng- 
lish Language ; with vocabularies of classical, scripture, and 
modern geographical names. By Joseph E. Worcester : 16mo 
o52p — JJoston, Jenks, Palmer & Co., 1850 ; deposited by 
Joseph E. Worcester, 5 December 1850. 

Elements of History, Ancient and Modern. By 



[ 1 ] .286 

Joseph E. Worcester, LL. D. : 12mo 408p — Boston, pub- 
lished by W. J. 'Reynolds, & Co., 1850 ; deposited by J. E. 
Worcester, 9 May 1850. 

Young (WilUam) Pocket ^Esculapius, or, every one his own physician. 
By William Young, M. D., &c. : IGmo 192p — Philadelphia, 
deposited by William Young, 29 July 1850. 

Young Patroon (The) or, Christmas in 1690 ; a tale of New York. By 
the Author of " the First of the Knickerbockers " : 12mo 142p 
— New York, published by G. P. Putnam, 1850 ; deposited 
by G. P. Putnam, 29 April 1850. 



PJRT II— LIST OF MUSICAL COMPOSITIOJ^S. 



Abbot (Asahel.) The Conqueror's last Sleep, or, the Grave of Major 
General Zachary Taylor, late President of the United States. 
Written and composed for the piano forte, by Asahel Abbot : 
4to 6p — New York, published by Jaques & Brother, 1850 ; 
deposited by Jaques & Brother, 31 July, 1850. 

Abbott (C. D.) The Badger Polka. Composed for the piano forte, by C. 
D. Abbott : 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & 
Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850. 

Abt (F.) Agatha ; words translated from the German, by Charles G. Le- 
land, Esq. Music composed by F. Abt. Arranged for the 
piano forte, by Max Zorer : 4to 5p — New York, published by 
Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 
February, 1850. 
Agatha ; words translated from the German, by Charles G. Leland, 
Esq. Music composed by F. Abt. Arranged for the guitar, by 
Max Zorer : 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & 
Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond, & Co., 9 February, 1850. 

Academy March ; arranged for the piano forte, by G. Schwab : 4to 2p — 
Louisville, Kentucky, published by Peters & Webb, 1850 ; de- 
posited by Peters & Webb, 25 May, 1850. 

Adler (C. A.) " Orlando ;" Valse brilliante pour le Piano. Composee et 
dediee a M'lle. Isabella Manton, par C. A. Adler : 4to 7p — 
Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850 ; deposited by 
A. & J. P. Ordway, "19 October, 1850. 

Ahlstr'om. The Herdsman's Song. " Herde Sang" The celebrated Echo 
vSong : sung by M'lle. Jenny Lind. Composed by Ahlstrom. 
Being No. 2 of Songs of Jenny Lind': 4to 4p — New York, 
published by Samuel C. Jollie, 1850 ; deposited by S. C. Jolli,e, 
11 Octoberl850. 

Airs from Lucia : arranged for the Harp, by T. H. Williams, being No. 
3 of Gems from the Operas: 4to lOp — New York. publiskecS 



287 [ 1 ] 

by J. F. Browne, 1850; deposited by J. F. Browne, 21 Febru- 
ary ISoO. "♦ 
Albert (Chas. F.) The May Polka. Composed by Chas. F. Albert : 4to 
5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited 
by W. C. Peters, 6 August 1850. 

"Allan Percy." Ballad, as sung by Madame Anna Ablamowicz. Arranged 
for the Guitar by the Publishers: 4to 5p — Louisville, published 
by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & 
Co., 25 May 1850. 

Ballad, as sung by Madame Anna Ablamowicz. Arranged 
for the Piano Forte by the Publishers : 4to 2p — Louisville, 
published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, 
W^ebb & Co., 25 May 1850. 

Allen (Henry A.) Hortensia. Valse a cinq temps par Henry A. Allen : 
4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; depo- 
sited by W. C. Peters, 22 April 1850. 

Alyan (Parish) La Danse des Fees. Morceau caracteristique pour la 
Harp. Arranged in a familiar style from Parish Alvan's celt> 
brated composition by T. H. Williams: 4to lOp — New^ York, 
published by J. F. Browne, 1850; deposited by J. F. Browne, 
21 February 1850. 

Amelie Waltz ( The ) as played by Munck's Band at the Unitetl 
States Hotel, Saratoga Springs. Arranged by Johann 
Munck : 4to 5p — New York, published at Vanderbeek'g 
music warerooms ; deposited by William Yanderbeek, 20 De- 
cember 1850. 

Anderson (Elbert) Allen Polka. Composed by E. Anderson : 4to 3p - — 
New York, published by William Hall & Son 1850 ; deposited' 
by William Hall & Son, 1 March 1850. 

Andrews (John C.) " Come, I've something sweet to sing to you. " A 
favorite ballad. Composed by John C. Andrews ; arranged for 
the guitar by E. Blessner : 4to 2p — New York, published by 
Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 
October 1850. 

Jennie with her bonnie blue e'e. W^ritten and com- 
posed by John C. Andrews. Arranged for the Spanish Guitar, 
by E. Blessner : 4to 2p — Ncav York, published by William 
Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 
1850. 

Social Circle, or Drawing Room Companion ; a sett 
of Quadrilles, Polka, Spanisli Dance, Scotch Reel and Waltz, 
designed to aid in the social soirees, without the aid of a mas- 
ter. By John C. Andrews : 4to 9p — Published by William, 
Hall & Son, New York, 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & 
Son, 3 May 1850. 

Somebody's coming, but I'll not lell who. Written 
and composed by John C. Andrews. Arranged for the guitar 
by Thomas Crouch : 4to 4p — New York, i)ublished by Firth, 
Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 Febru- 
ary 1850. 



[ 1 ] 288 

Anguera (J. D.) Stevens Quick Step. Composed for the piano forte, by 

J. D, Anguera : *to 3p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. 

Ordway, 1850 ; deposited by A & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 

1850. 
AsTOBiA Waltz, Arranged for the piano forte or harp, by J. Adams Smith : 

4to 5p — Published by H. J. Peters & Co, Louisville, 1850; 

deposited by H. J. Peters, 25 May 1850. 

Bachelor's Song (The). By one of the Squad : Music by a Spinster, copy- 
right secured to the single. Entered at Spinster Hall : 4to 5p 
— New York, published by Frith, Pond & Co., 1850; depo- 
sited by Frith, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850. 

Baden Baden. The real Schottish, arranged for the piano forte, by Fred. 
Wiese : 4to 2p — New York, published by William Ilall & 
Son, 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 1850. 

Baker (E. L.) Massa sound is sleeping; composed by E. L. Baker : 4to 
5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; de- 
posited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850. 

Balfe — Hither we come ; or, the Pirates' Chorus, as sung at Christy ,8 
Opera Comique, arranged from Balfe's Opera, The Enchan- 
tress, by Max Zorer: 4to 5p — New York, published at Van- 
derbeek's : Firth, Pond & Co., New York ; deposited by Wm. 
Vanderbeek, 23 December 1850. 

Ballard (James) Favorite Russian Melody, with introduction and varia" 
tions, by James Ballard: 4to 3p — New Yoik, published at 
Vanderbeek's, 479 Broadway, 1850 ; deposited by WilHam 
Vanderbeek, 8 November, 1850. 

Baltimore Olio Waltz from the " Ballet la Gizelle." Arranored for the 
piano forte, by H. D. Sofye : 4to 5p — Louisville, published 
by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & 
Co., 25 May 1850. 

Batchelder (W. K.) La Bostonienne ; Yalse brillante. Composed and 
arranged for the piano forte, by W. K. Batchelder : 4to 5p — 
Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850 ; deposited by 
A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. 

Beautiful Isle ; Song, addressed to Dauphin Island, Mobile Point, Fort 
Boyer, Alabama. Adapted to a favorite Polish air, by James 
G. Drake : 4to 5p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, 
Webb & Co. ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October 
1850. 

BiEECHER (Rev. Charles,) and Zundel (John.) The Metronome, or Music 
Teacher's Assistant ; a new Manual of Sacred Song. By Rev. 
Charles Beecher and John Zundel: 8vo 59p — New York, 
1851 ; deposited by Charles Beecher, 21 December, 1850. 

Beiderman (A. J.) Western Star Waltz. Composed for the piano forte, 
by A. J. Beiderman: 4to 5p — New York, published bv Firth, 
Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 Octo- 
ber, 1850. 

Bellak (James.) Ben Bolt_^Waltz, in which is introduced the " Chant favori 
de Kneass." Composed by James Bellak : 4to 5p — Balti- 



289 [ 1 ] 

more, pul)]ishc(l by W. C. Peters^ 1850 ; deposited by W. C. 
Peters, G August, ISoO. 

Bellak (James) " Bertucca Polka." By James Bellak : 4to 2p — New 
York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by 
William Hall & Soil, 19 August, 1850. 

Virginia Polka. Composed for the piano forte by James 
Bellak : '4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; 
deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850. 

" Belle of Winyaw Bay (The.) " Written by Howard H. Caldwell, Esq. 
Music adapted and arranged by N. W. Gould, of Christy's 
Minstrels: 4to 5p — New" York, published l)y William Hall & 
Son, 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & Son,'l9 August, 1850.. 

Ben Bolt Polka, in which is introduced the chant fovori de Kneass. Ar- 
ranged by W. C. Peters : 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by 
W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 1(3 October 
1850. 

JJenedict (Jules) By the sad sea waives, as sung by Mad'lle Jenny Lind 
at her concerts in America. Composed by Jules Benedict : 4to 
5p — New York, pul)lished by Firth, Pond & Co, 1850 ; de- 
posited by S. C. Jollie, 11 October 1850. 

Take this Lute. Ballad sung by Mad'lle Jenny Lind, 
at her concerts in America. Composed by Jules Benedict : 
4to 7p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850'; 
deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October 1850. 

Jenny Lind's Greeting to America. W^ritten by Bayard 
Taylor, Esq. Music composed by Julius Benedict : 4to 7p — 
New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited 
by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850. 

Benkert (George Felix) Gentle Kate. Sung by Miss Julia L. NorthalL 
Poetry by Charles O. C. Music by George Felix Benkert : 
4to 7p— New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850 ; 
tieposited by W^illiam Hall & Son, 21 June, 1850. 

What hath snared thee, heart ? Ballad, as sung 
by Miss Rosa Jaques. Poetry written by Henry H. Paul. 
Music by Benkert : 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, 
Pond & Co. ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850. 

Whisper one gentle word. Poetry by Henry H. 
Paul. Music l)y George Felix Benkert: 4to 5p — New York, 
published by Williaiii Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William 
Hall & Son, 7 March 1S50. 

Bonnie Bess. Ballad. Poetry by H. H. Paul. 
Music by George Felix Benkert: 4to 7p — New York ; pub- 
lished by William Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William 
Hall & Son, I March 1850. 

Berg (Albert W.) Mignonette Polka. Composed by Albert W. Berg : 4to 
4p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; de- 
posited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850. 

Bernreuter (11) Columbus Guards' Quick Step. Composed by H. Bern- 
Mis.— 19. 



[ 1 ] 290 

reuter. Arranged for the piano forte by Charles Reps : 4to 5p 
New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited 
by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850. 

Berwreuter (H) Bombardment of Vera Cruz. Grand Heroic March.- 
Composed by H. Bernreuter. Arranged for the piano by Chas, 
Reps : 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co.; 
deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June 1850. 

Blanche and Lisette. Composed by the author of Jeannette and Jeannet. 
Arranged for the guitar by Thomas Crouch: 4to 3p — New 
York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited hy 
Firth, Pond & Co., 9 April 1850. 

Blessner (Gustave) "I have got the blues to-day I" A comic ballad 
written by Miss Sarah M. Graham. The Music composed and 
dedicated to Miss Mary E. Thompson by Gustave Blessner; 4tp 
5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; de-. 
posited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October 1850. 

Empire State Quick Step, composed by Gusta"\ne 
Blessner : 4to 5p — New York, published by William Hall ^ 
Son, 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 1850. 

Bloomfield (E. L.) Euretta Polka, composed by E. L. Bloomfleid: 4to 4p 
— New York, published by Jaques & Brother, 1850 : depositeil' 
by Jaques & Brother, 6 June 1850. 

BoQUET Waltz (Le.) Arranged for the piano forte by J. Kirschenheuter : 
4to 2p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co., 
1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co. 25 May 1850. 

Bowl'd Sojer Boy. Arranged by J. E. Miiller, [being No. 10, second 
series of cottage Duetts:] 4to 3p — Baltimore, published by 
George Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Wlllig, Jr., 21 
February 1850. 

Brandeis (Fred.) The Standard Bearer. Grand March, by Fred. Brandeis: 
4to 5p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; 
deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 April, 1850. 

Bristow (Geo. F.) La Belle Amerique ; nocturne pour le Piano. Com- 
posee et dedie a M'lle Fanny Miller, par Geo. F. BristoAV ; Op. 
4: 4to 9p — New York, published by S. Pearson, 1850; de- 
posited by Geo. F. Bristow, 11 October, 1850. 

La Serenade nocturne pour le Piano, par Geo. F. Bris- 
tow ; Op. 8 : 4to 9p — New York, published by S. Pearson, for 
the Author ; deposited by Geo. F. Bristow, 7 June, 1850. 

I would I were a favorite Flower. Written by Emerald 
T. Wilson. Sung by Mr. Griswold. Music by G. F. Bristow: 
4to 5p — deposited by G. F. Bristow, 7 June,' 1850. 

Tripler Schottisch. Composed by Geo. F. Bristow : 4ta 
5p — New York, published by S. Pearson ; Firth, Pond & Co. ; 
Dubois & Warriner; William Yanderbeek ; deposited by Sidney 
Pearson, 30 December, 1850. 
Brown (Geo. S.) The Dying Mariner. A Song, written by J. S. Wilson. 
Composed by Geo. S. Brown : 4to 5p — Baltimore, published 



291 [ 1 J 

by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 Octo- 
ber, 18;50. 

Brown. Lc Chant Americaine. Variations on Brown's popular melody. 
Will you come to my Mountain Home. For the piano forte, by 
8amuel Owen : 4to 8p — New York, published by Firth, Pond 
& Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850. 

Bruhns (J. J. W.) Jenny Lind's Diamond Waltz. Composed for the piano, 
by J. J. W. Bruhns 4to 7p — Boston, A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850 ; 
deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. 

Bryant (Mad'lle. S.) Fantaisie Brillante sur une Valse de Mad'lle. S. Bry- 
ant. Arrangee et variee pour le piano par C. Baldwin : 4to 
lip — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited 
by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

Buckley (R. Bishop, Esq.) Jenny Lane. Words and music by R. Bishop 
Buckley, Esq. Arranged for the piano, by J. P. Ordway : 4to 
5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850 ; depo- 
sited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October; 1850. 

BuRRowEs' Piano Forte Primer; containing the rudiments of Music, calcu- 
lated either for private tuition or teaching in classes. Revised 
and enlarged, with additions and alterations, by W. C. Peters : 
12mo 58p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1849 ; 
deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850. 

Campo del Gloria, being No. 1, of " Flowers of Andalusia." A selection 
of Spanish melodies. Arranged for the guitar by Mad. Knoop: 
4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; depo- 
sited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. 

Camp of Glory, being No. 4, of W. C. Peters & Co.'s selection of admired 
duetts, for two performers on the piano forte. Arranged by 
W. C. Peters : 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Pe- 
ters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August 1850. 

''Can I e'er forget the Valley." Song or Duett. Arranged as a duett for 
the piano forte by A. Phillips ; 4to 2p — New York, published 
by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 3 
May 1850. 

Candy (John) "Farewell ! Farewell is often heard." Words from the 
" London Despatch." Composed and arranged for the piaao 
forte by John Candy : 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Pe- 
ters, Webb & Co, 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 
25 May 1850. 

The Peasant Wife. Words by the Hon. Mrs. Norton. Mu- 
sic by John Candy : 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, 
Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 
May 1850. 

Cardex (Allen D.) New Edition. The Missouri Harmony; or, a collection of 
psalm and hynm tunes, and anthems, from eminent authors ; with 
an introduction to the grounds and rudiments of music. In four 
parts. By Allen D. Garden. Containing a number of admired 
tunes of the various meters, and several choice pieces, selected 
from some of the most approved collections of sacred musio* 



[ 1 ] 292 

Revised, enlarged, and corrected. By Charles Warren : 8vo 
long, 268p — Cincinnati, published by William Phillips & 
Co., 1850 ; deposited by Morgan & Sanxay, 2 December, 
1850. 

Carnival de Venise. Being No. 5 of Gems from the Operas, arranged 
for the Harp, by T. H. Williams: 4to 8p — New York, pub- 
lished by J. F. Browne, 1850 ; deposited by J. F. Browne, 
21 February 1850. 

Carpenter (Samuel) " Ever be joyous." Words by J. B. Murphy. Music 
composed by Samuel Carpenter. Arranged by Miss Mary Cox- 
hea(l : 4to 5p — Philadelphia, Couenhoven & Duffy ; deposited 
by Couenhoven & Duffy, 21 December 1850. 

Carstensen (Henry) "If I had thought thou couldst have died. Words 
by Wolffe. Music by Henry Carstensen : 4to 2p — Louisville, 
Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co. ; deposited by Peters, 
Webb & Co., 5 October 1850. 

Chadwick (Henry) Mountain Hunter's Waltz, Arranged from the Opera 
of Amelie, by Henry Chadwick : 4to 5p — New York, pub- 
lished by William Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by William 
Hall & Son, 1 March 1850. 

]\''instrel Waltz. Composed and arranged for the piano 
forte by Henry Chadwick : 4to 3p — New York, published by 
Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., U 
February 1850. 

Christian Melodies : a Selection of Eymns and Tunes designed for Social 
and Private Worship in the Lecture Room and the Family. 
Edited by George B. Cheever, D. D., and J. E. Sweetser : 12mo. 
252p — New York, published by A. S. Barnes & Co., 1851; 
deposited by A. S. Barnes & Co., 5 December 1850. 

Christy's Jane Monroe. A celebrated Ethiopian Melody, as sung by the 
Christy Minstrels. Words by G. W. Donelson, Esq. Arranged 
by E. P. Christy : 4to 5p — New York, published by William 
Hall & Son 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 21 June 
1850. 
Katy Dean. A celebrated Ethiopian Melody, as sung by the 
Christy Minstrels. Words by T. Vaughn. Arranged by E. 
P. Christy : 4to 5p-New York, published by William Hall &, 
Son, 1850 ; deposited by William i^.all & Son, 3 May 1850. 

Cole (Geo. F.) Governor Seabrook's Quickstep, composed at the request of 
the Washington Light Infantry. By George F. Cole : Charles- 
ton, published by George F. C0I3, 1850 : deposited by Wil- 
liam Hall & Son, 3 May 1850. 

Cone (Solomon) The Harmonia ; A new coIIec';ion of ^asy songs, composed 
and arranged for one, two, thrcs, aad four voices, with a new 
set of rules and practical exercises, upon an original and scien- 
tific plan, for the use of schools, singing classes, and social cir- 
cles. By Solomon Cone : 12mo long, io4p — Albany, Erastus 
H. Pease & Co., 1850 : deposited by E. H. Pease & Co., 10 
October 1850. 



293 [ 1 ] 

Cook (John C) " Lexington Polka," composed and arranged for the piano 
By John C. Cook : 4to 3p — Louisville, published by H. J. 
Peters & Co., 1850; deposited by H. J. Peters, 25 May 1850. 

Good Night Mamma I Good Night ! or, the Dying Child : 
words by Dr. William T. Knight, music by J. C. Cook : 4to 
5p — Louisville, Kentucky, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 
1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co", 5 October 1850. 

"Mammoth Cave Waltz," composed and arranged for the 
piano forte by J. C. Cook: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by 
Peters & Webb, 1850 ; deposited by Peters & Webb, 5 Octo- 
ber 1850. 

Cedar Hill Waltz, composed and arranged for the piano. By 
J. C. Cook: 4to 2p — Louisville, published by H. J. Peters 
& Co., 1850 ; deposited by H. J. Peters, 25 May 1850. 

Kentucky Polka. Composed for the piano forte by J. C. 
Cook: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 
1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. 

" Summer Season," being No. 2 of "The Season Waltzes," 
by John C. Cook: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters & 
Webb, 1850 ; deposited by Peters & W^-bb, 25 May 1850. 

Fall-Season Waltz. Composed and arranged for the piano 
forte by John C. Cook : 4to 3p — Louisville, published by Peters 
& Webb, 1850 ; deposited by Peters & Webb, 25 May 1850. 

"Winter-Season," being No. 4 of "The Season- Waltzes," 
by John C. Cook : 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, 
Webb & Co. ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. 
Lexington Quick Step. Composed and arranged for the 
piano forte, by John C. Cook : 4to 5p — Louisville, published 
by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 : deposited by Peters, Webb & 
Co., 25 May 1850. 

Cooper (Adeline Maxwell, of London) Grand National Waltzes, dedicated 
to Gen. Z. Taylor, President United States. Composed by 
Adeline Maxwell Cooper (of London) : 4to lip — New York, 
published by William Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by William 
Hall & Son, 3 May 1850. 

CoPPOCK (W. R.) Eglantine Divertimento for the Piano Forte. Composed 
by W. R. Coppock : 4to 7p — New York, published by Firth, 
Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 April, 
1850. 

Coquette Schottisch Polka, as played by Munck's Soiree Band. Arranged 
by Johann Munck : 4to 5p — New York, published at Vander- 
beek's ; deposited by Wm. Vanderbeek, 4 October, 1850. 

Coquette Schottisch (The.) Being No. 1 of Guitarist's Gleanings ; a col- 
lection of operatic Gems, polkas, waltzes, &c. Arranged for 
the guitar, by J. Ballard : 4to 5p — New York, published at 
Vandet beck's", 1850; deposited by Wm. Vanderbeek, 4 Octo- 
ber, 1850. 

Coue:nhover (James.) Philadelphia Mazurka Quadrilles, Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 
and 5 ; for the piano forte. Composed and arranged by Jame? 



[ 1 ] 294 

Couenhover : 4to 7p — New York, published by Wm. Hall & 
Son, 1H50 ; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 1 March, 1850. 
Covert (Bernard.) " Brother, speak in whispers light ;" or, " The Bride's 
Departure." Words by Capt. Patten, U. S. A. Music composed 
by Bernard Covert : 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. 
drdway, 1850 ; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 
1850. 

Crouch (Thomas.) Then blame not time. Words by J. H. Macmichael. 
Composed and arranged for the guitar, by Thomas Crouch : 
4to 2p — New York, published by J^irth, Pond & Co., 1850; 
deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850. 

Gumming (Wm.) Irmaa Maria ! Duetto for two equal voices. Words by 
W. H. Donoho. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, 
by Wm. Cumming : 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. 
Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. 

CuRTiss (N. P. B.) The Hindoo Slave Girl. Words by M. S. Pike, Esq. 
Music by N. P. B. Curtiss : 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. 
& J. P. Ordway ; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 Oet. 1850. 
When Slumber Sweet. Poetry by Marshall S. Pike, 
Esq. Music composed for the piano by N. P. B. Curtiss: 4to 
5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850 ; depo- 
sited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October 1850. 

Deems (James M.) Vocal music Simplified : an elementary and progressive 
method of teachino; vocal music in classes. With original ex- 
ercises in solfeggi and vocalization. By James M. Deems. [In 
two numbers. No. 1, treble, &c. No. 2 bass :] 8vo bass, ll2p; 
tenor, 112p — Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr., 
1849 ; deposited by James M. Deems, 21 May, 1850. 

Deh Con Te. (Norma) Arranged for the Harp by T. H. Williams. Being 
No. 4 of Gems from the Operas : 4to lip — New York, pub* 
lished by J. F. Brown, 1850; deposited by J. F. Brown, 21 
February 1850. 

De Luce (George) City Guard Quick Step. Composed and arranged for 
the piano forte by George De Luce : 4to 4p — New York, pub- 
lished by Jaques & Brother, 1850 ; deposited by Jaques & 
Brother, 28 January 1850. 

De Meyer. When Twilight is Closing. Ballad. Words by F. Cosby. 
Melody from De Meyer's celebrated " Chant Bohemienne." 
Arranged for the guitar by W. C. Peters : 4to 5p — New York 
published by Willam Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by William 
Hall & Son, 3 May 1850. 

Densari (P. Y.) " Softly the Moon, my love." A Serenade, written by 
C. W, Everest, Esq. Music composed by P. Y. Densari: 4to 
5p — New York, published by Sidney Pearson, 1850; deposited 
by Sidney Pearson, 7 June 1850. 

DoDWORTH (Allen) Dark Sett Quadrilles, Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. Arranged 
by Allen Dodworth : 4to 7p — N. York, i^ublished by W. Hall 
& Son, 1850 ; deposited by W. Hall & Son, 1 March, 1850. 

DpNizETTi. Spirito Gentil. Spirit of Light; Cavatina; La Favorita. Doni- 



295 [ X ] 

zetli. Being No. 1 of Boquct of Operatic Songs : 4to 5p — 
New York, published at Vauderbeek's Music Warerooms, 18-30 ; 
deposited by William Vanderbeek, 7 November 1850. 
DoNizKTri. Chantje not Thou. Song written by F. Cosby, Esq. Melody 
by Donizetti. Arranged for the guitar by W. C. Peters : 4to 
3'p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; depo- 
sited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June 1S50. 

Ah ! tender Floweret. A fayorite Song. Words and ar- 
rangement by Henri. Music by Donizetti : 4to — New York, 
published by Jaques «Sc Brother, 1850 ; deposited by Jaques & 
Brother, 22" March 1850. 

Change not Thou. Song written by F. Cosby, Esq. Melody 
by Donizetti. Arranged l)y William C. Peters: 4to op — New 
York, publislied by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by 
Firth, Pond & Co.,' 9 February 1850. 

EcKARDT (Charles.) Baton Rouge GrandMarch and Quick Step. Composed 
and arranged for the piano forte by Charles Eckardt : 4to 5p 
— Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by 
G. Willig, Jr., 21 February 1850. 

Echo Song (The), x\rranged by J. C. Scherpf. [Being] Op. 56, 1st Series, 
Op. 57, 2d Series, of " The National Airs of Sweden," ar- 
ranged as Quadrilles, by John C. Scherpf: 4to 5p— New York, 
published at the Music W'areroom 479 Broadway, William 
Vanderbeek; deposited by W. Vanderbeek, 20 December, 1850. 

Emerald Polka. Arranged for the piano, by Henry Chadwick : 4to 2p — 
New York, published by Firtli, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited 
by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850. 

Ethiopian Popular Melodies ; arranged in an easy style for the harp, by T. 
H. Williams. No. 1. Carry me back; Dearest Mae; Happy 
are we, darkies so gay : 4to 9p — New York, published by J . 
F. Brown, 1850 ; deposited by J. F. Brown, 21 February, 1850. 
Fillmore (Augustus D.) The Song of Steam. Words by Capt. C. W. 
Cutter. Music composed by Augustus D. Fillmore: 4to 3p — 
Cincinnati, published by I). Anderson, 1850; deposited by D. 
Anderson, 9 November, 1850. 

The wandering boy ; a duett. Words by Henry 
Kirk White. Music composed by Augustus D. Fillmore : 4to 
3p — Cincinnati, published by D. Anderson, 1850 ; deposited by 
D. Anderson, 9 November, 1850. 

Our old Homestead. Words by Miss Phcrbe 
Carey. Music composed l)y A. D. Fillmore : 4to 3p — Cincin- 
nati, published l»y D. Anderson, 1850 ; deposited by D. Ander- 
son, 9 Novendx'r, 1850. 

The Universal Musician ; a new collection of 
secular and sacred music, designed for musical associations, 
and social music parties ; with a new and comprehensive plan 
of instruction, embracing the various systems of notation. By 
A. D. Fillmore : 8vo oblong — Cincinnati, published by ]). An- 
derson, 1850; deposited by A. D. Fillmore, 9 May,' 1850. 



['1 ] 296 

Fitch (Rev. E. T., D. D.) "Thou art gone home;" or, the two voices. 
Words by Mrs. Hemans. Music by Rev. Eleazer T. Fitch. 
4to 5p --- New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 : 
deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June 18-50. 

Foster (Stephen C.) The voice of by-gone days. Ballad. Written and 
composed by Stephen C. Foster : 4to 5p — New York, pub- 
lished by Firth, Pond & Co., 18o0 ; deposited by Firth, Pond 
& Co., 11 October 1850. 

Way down in Ca-i-ro. W^ritten and composed by 
Stephen C. Foster : 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth. 
Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June 
1850. 

Nelly Ely. Words and music by S. C. Foster. Be- 
ing one of Foster's Ethiopean melodies : 4to 5p — New York, 
published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, 
Pond & Co., 9 April 1850. 

Mary loves the Flowers ; Song. Poetry and music 
by S. C. Foster : 4to — New^ York, published by Firth, Pond 
& Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 
1850. 

Nelly was a Lady. Written and composed by S. C. 
Foster. Being No. 1, of Foster's Ethiopean melodies: 4to 
4p _„ New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; de- 
posited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850. 

Nelly was a Lady. Written and composed by Ste- 
phen C. Foster. Arranged for the Spanish guitar by Max 
Zorer : 4to 2p — New^ York, published by Firth, Pond & 
Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co.,' 9 February 1850. 

Soiree Polka, composed by Stephen C. Foster : 4to 2p 
— Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by 
W. C. Peters, 12 February 1850. Another copy deposited 
8 March 1850. 

Soiree Polka. By S. C. Foster, arranged for four 
hands. Being No. 23 of W. C. Peters & Co's., selection of ad- 
mired duetts, &c., for two performers on the piano forte : 4to 
,5p — Baltimore, published by W\ C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited 
by W. C. Peters, 16 October"l850. 

Dolcy Jones, written and composed by S. C. Foster. Being 
No. 3, of "Foster's Ethiopian Melodies : 4to 4p — New York, 
published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, 
Pond & Co., 9 February 1850. 
Fowler (J. A.) Sharon Polka, composed for the piano forte, by J. A- 
Fowler : 4to 5p — New^ York, published by William Hall & 
Son, 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 21 June 
1850. 

Fire Fly Polka, composed for the piano forte by J. A. 
Fowler : 4to 5p — New York, jniblished by William Hall &. 
Son 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 
1850. 



297 [ 1 ] 

Fry (Theo.) Sylpliidc Waltz, in five steps. Composed by Theo. Fry : 4to 
5p — JJaltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited 
by G. Willig, Jr., 21 Febrnary 1850. 

FuLLGRAFT (Otto) " Sweet thoiights of him around me gather" ; or, " the 
Soldier's Bride." Written by L. M. Montague, composed by 
Otto Fiillgrafi': 4to 7p — New York, published at Vander- 
beek's, 1850 ; deposited William Vanderbeek, 4 October 1850. 

Gage (Le) d'Amour, Valse, arranged for the piano forte, by C. Schaub : 
4to 2p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters &'Webb, 1850; 
deposited by Peters, W'ebb & Co., 25 May, 1850. 

Gansbacher (J.) " Regina Coeli." To be sung from Easter until Trinity 
Eve. From J. Gimsbacher : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by 
W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August*, 
1850. 

Gerkin (Charles H.) The Flora Waltz. Composed and arranged for the 
piano forte, by Charles H. Gerkin : 4to 3p — Baltimore, pub- 
lished by Geo! Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 
21 February, 1850. 

GiMBER (Henry.) " I watch'd the dew upon the grass ;" as sung by Jenny 
Lind. Written and composed by Henry Gimber : 4to 5p — 
New York, published by Wm. Vanderbeek ; deposited by Wm- 
Vanderbeek, 4 October, 1850. 

Glimpse (A) of love song. Words taken from the Hazel dell .Poems. 
Arranged with symphonies and accompaniments, for the piano 
forte : 4to 5p — Albany, Boardman & Gray — New York, Firth, 
Pond &. Co. ; deposited by Boardman & Gray, 11 Octobej, 
1850. 

Glover (Charles W.) Gentle Voices ; for the Spanish guitar. Composed 
by Chas. W. Glover. Arranged by Henry Chadwick : 4to 3p — 
New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by 
W. Hall & Son, 3 May, 18.50. 

Susette and Beau Joe ; as sung by Geo. Kunkel, of the Night- 
ingales. Words by T. Martin. Music arranged from Glover, for 
the piano forte, from " Songs of the Sable Harmonists:" 4to 
5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited 
by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850. 

GooLD (Henry) Memory's Jewels. A song to my wife. Words from the 
Albany Evening Journal. Music comj)Osed by Henry Goold : 
4to 3p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; 
deposited by Firth ik, Co., 9 February 1850. 

Grafulla (C.S.) '•' Captain Clark's Quick Step." Composed by C. S. Gra- 
fulla : 4to 7p — New York, published by William Hall &Son, 
1850; deposited by William Hall & Son, 19 August 1850. 

Friendship Quick Step. Composed by C. S. Grafulla 
for Phfpnix Hook and Ladder co.. No. 3: 4to Op — New York, 
published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, 
Pond & Co.*, 7 June 1850. 

Friendship Quickstep. Composed for the Phoenix Hook 
and La(bler co., No. 3, (of New York) by C. S. Grafulla, 4to 



[ 1 ] 298 

6p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; depo- 
sited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 April 1850. 
Grimmer (J) " Les belles de la cote joyeuse," No. 1 of "Les belles de la 
Riviere Rouge." Valses en deux suites. Composees par J. 
Grimmer : 4to 9p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & 
Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. 

"Les belles des Natchitoches," No. 2 of " Les belles de la 
Riviere Rouge," Valses en deux suites. Composees par J. 
Grimmer : 4to 9p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & 
Co., 25 May 1850. 
Grobe (Charles) E. Pluribus Unum ; with brilliant variations for the piano 
forte. Composed by Charles Grobe : 4to 8p — Baltimore, 
published by William C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by William 
C. Peters, 22 April 1850. 

Gage d'Amitie ; Variations brillantes, sur le theme favori, 
The Elhn W^altz, composees pour le piano par Charles Grobe : 
4to 9p — Baltimore, published by G. W^illig, Jr., 1850 : depo- 
sited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February 1850. 
Grube (Charles.) Georgia Waltz. Composed by Charles Grube : 4to 5p 
— New York, published by Wilham Hall & Son, 1850 ; de- 
posited by William Hall & Son., 3 May 1850. 
GuENTZ (A. Ch.) Impromptu Capricieux. Compose pour le piano par A. 
Ch. Guentz : 4to 7p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & 
Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. 
GuiBERT (Benjamin J.) Le lac d'amour valse, composee pour le piano. Par 
Benjamin J. Guibert : 4to 3p — Louisville, published by 
Peters & Webb, 1850 ; deposited by Peters & Webb, 25 May, 
1850. 

La belle Lucie. Favorite Waltz for the Piano. 
Composed by Benjamin J. Guibert : 4to 5p — Louisville, pub- 
lished bv H. J. Peters & Co., 1850., deposited by H. J. Peters 
25 May 1850. 
Gukg'l (Josef) " Narragansett Waltz ; " No. 3 of Musical compositions 
of Josef Gung'l 4to 9p — New York, published by Firth, 
Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June 
1850. 

Wandering Melodies Waltzes. Being No. 2 of the mu- 
sical compositions of Josef Gung'l : 4to lip — New York, 
published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, 
Pond & Co., 9 April 1850. 
Guim (Isaac.) Mary Machree. Written by Miss Fanny Malone Raymond. 
Composed by Isaac Gunn : 4to 5p — New York, published by 
Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 
June, 1850. 
GuNTER (E. W.) There's a nook in the greenwood ; ballad, written by 
F. Cosby, Esq. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, 
by E. W. Gunter : 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, 
Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 Oc- 
tober, 1850. 



299 [ 1 ] 

GuNTER (E. W.) The Soliool Quet'ii ; a coronation Song. Words by Rev. 

B. B. Sniitli. Music composed and arranged lor the piano forte-, 

by E. W. Gunter : 4to 3p — Louisville, published by II. J. 

Peters & Co., 1850 ; deposited by H. J. Peters & Co., 25 May, 

1850. 
"Had I never, never known thee; " ballad. Arranged for the piano, by 

William Cumniing : 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, 

Webb & Co., 18o0 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 

May, 1850. 
"Had I never, never known Thee ;" Ballad. Arranged for the guitar, by 

Wm. Cumming : 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, 

Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 

May, 1850. 
IL^NXE (J. F.) Presentation Quick Step. Composed by J. F. Hance : 4to 

5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited 

by W. C. Peters, 22 April, 1850. 

Haraden (D. T.) The Enchanted Polka. Composed for the piano forte, 
by 1). T. ILnraden : 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. 
Ordway, 1850 : deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 
1850. ' 

Harrington (G. A.) Ob Phrebe. An Ethiopian Ballad. Written by a 
gentlemen of Baltimore. Composed by (i. A. Harrington; 
4to 5p — Baltimore, published by G* Willig, Jr., 1850,; 
deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February 1850. 

Harry and Lucv. " W^hat shall this Darkey do." An Ethiopian Melody. 
Written and composed by Harry and Lucy : 4to 5p — New 
York, published by W. Hall & Son, 1850*; deposited by W. 
ILall & Son, 3 March 1850. 

Hatton (J. L.) Unkindness. Ballad, composed for, and simg by ElizTa 
Biscaccianti ; to whom it is dedicated by J, L. Hatton : 4to 6p 
— Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; depo- 
sited by Peters, W\'bb & Co., 5 October 1850. 

Hennings (John B.) The War Steed. Grand Military March. Composed 
by John B. Hennings: 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth 
Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June 
1850. 

Henri Quadrille impromptu, sur les Chansons })opulaires, Jeannette and 
Jeannot, Love's Seranade, Bowl'd Soger Boy, &c., pour le piano 
par Henri : 4to 6p — New York, publisbeil by Jaques & Bro- 
ther, 1850 ; deposited by Jaques & Brother, 22 March 1850. 

"Henrietta Gallopade." Arranged for the piano by H. J. Peters : 4to 
5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; 
deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. 

Henssler (F. R.) Chamois Polka. Com])osed for the piano forte ]»y F. 
R. Henssler: 4to tip — Boston, i)ul)lished by A. & J. P. Ord- 
way ; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October J 850. 

"Here's a health to thee, Tom Moore." A favorite song, by Lord By- 
ron; arranged for the guitar, by William lucho : 4to 5p — 



[ 1 ] 300 

Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited 
by Peters, Webb & Co'., 25 May 1850. 

Herz (Henri) The Flower of America, Waltz, (being No. 2 of Cottage 
Duetts,) composed by Henri Herz : 4to 2p — Baltimore, pub- 
lished by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 
21 February 1850. 

The Pilgrimage ; melody by Herz : words from the Message 
Bird: symphonies and accompaniments, by P. Y. Densari: 4to 
2p — New York, published by S. Pearson, 1850; deposited by 
Sidney Pearson, 11 October 1850. 

Hess (Charles.) The Thalia Schottisch. Composed by Chas. Hess : 4to 
2p — New-York, published at Vanderbeek's, 1850; deposited 
by Wm. Vanderbeek, 4 October, 1850. 

Hew^-"-- (J. H.) " Let us hope for the best ;" Ballad, written and com- 
posed by J. H. Hewitt : 4to 5p — New York, published by Wm. 
Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by W. Hall & Son, 19 August, 
1850. 

"The single man;" a comic Song. Written and adapted 
by J. H. Hewitt : 4to 5p — New York, published by Wm. Hall 
& Son, 1850 ; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 19 August. 1850. 
Leap o'er the waves ; song of the Buccaneer. Written, 
partly composed by J. H. Hewitt; 4to 5p — Baltimore, pub- 
lished by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr.^ 
21 February, 1850. 

HiNE (Charles.) Prairie Song. Written and composed by Charles Hine: 
4to 2p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; 
deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October, 1850. 

HoDSON (C. A.) He reached the valley ; ballad. Music by C. A. Hodson. 
Arranged for the guitar, by E. Blessner : 4to — New York, 
published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, 
Pond & Co.', 9 February, 1850. 

Hoffman (G. R.) Queen of my soul, as a waltz. Composed and arranged 
for the pianoforte, by G. R. Hoffman: 4to op — Louisville, 
Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co. : deposited by Peters, 
W'ebb & Co., 5 October, 1850. 

Hoffman (Richard.) Grande Fantaisie on the celebrated air, " Here's to 
you, Harry Clay." Composed by Richard Hoffman : 4to 13p — 
'New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited 
by R. Hoffman, 7 June, '1850. 

Holmes (A. F.) Speed, speed, my fleet Vessel. Words by F. H. B. Music 
composed by A. F. Holmes : 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. 
& J. P. Ordway, 1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 
October, 1S50.' 

Home (A) and Friends around us; song, arranged for the piano forte, by 
W^m. Tillinghast : 4to 3p — New York, published by Firth^ 
Pond & Co., 1850 : deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 Octo- 
ber, 1850. 

Howard (Mrs. Charles.) Look from thy lattice, gentle Lady ; a Serenade, 



301 [ 1 ] 

written and adapted by J. H. HcAvltt. Dedicated to Mns. John 
F. Fry, by Mrs. Clias. Howard. 

Howard (Frank.) Quadrilles sociales. Composed and arranged for tlic 
piano forte, by Frank Howard : 4to 7p — Boston, published by 
A. & J. P. Oi-dway, 18-50 ; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 
19 October, ISoO. 

Yd offer thee this hand of mine. Arranged for the piano forte by L. T. 
Chadwick; as a Quartette with an accom])animent for the piano, 
by W. Tillinghast : New York, published by Firth, Pond & 
Co., iSoO; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June iHoO. 

" Vhh Cling to thee. " Words by Mrs. S. R. Thorpe. Arranged for the 
piano forte by H. J. Peters : 4to 2p — Louisville, published by 
H. J. Peters'& Co., 1850 ; deposited by H. J. Peters & Co.', 
25 May 1850. 

" I love to look ni those dreamy eyes ; " written by F. Cosby ; subject 
from Reissiger. iVrranged for the piano forte by E. W. Gun- 
ter : 4to 7p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webl) & Co., 
1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. 

loLAH Waltzes : composed and arranged for the piano forte, by a lady of 
South Carolina. Containing Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 : 4to 7p — 
New York, published by WilUam Hall & Son., 1850 ; deposi- 
ted by H. H. Shultz, 2 March 1850. 

*' I seen her at the window. " No. 2 of songs of the Sable Harmonists, 
as sung by Kneass' Opera Troupe. Arranged for the piano forte : 
4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; 
deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. 

JucHo (William) " Adah. " No 3 of " The Fairy Polka Rondos. " A 
collection of useful and agreeable pieces for the piano forte, 
composed by William lucho : 4to 5p — Louisville, published 
by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & 
Co., 25 May 1850. 

California March. Composed for the piano forte by Wil- 
liam lucho: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb 
& Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. 

La Latona ; valse brillante. Composed by William lucho, 
4to — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; de- 
posited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. 

"Titania." No. 2 of "The Fairy Polka Rondos." A 
collection of useful and agreeable pieces for the piano forte. 
Com})osed l)y William lucho: 4to 5p — Tvouisville, publisheci 
by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & 
Co., 25 May 1850. 

Jacobsen (Otto F.) Warren Polka. Composed by Otto F. Jacobsen : 4tO 
op — New York, published by William Hall & Son, 1850 ; de- 
posited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 1850. 

" Jalapa Gals ;" being No. 2 of " Songs of the Sable Harmonists. (])iano) : 
4to — Louisville, published l)y Peters, Webb & Co. ; deposited 
by Peters, Webb & Co,, 2.^ May 1850. 

Jenny Lind's Dream. Valse brilliante. Arranged for the piano forte by 



[ 1] 



302 



Miss Augusta Browne : 4to 3p — Boston, published by A. & 
J. P. Ordway, 1850 ; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 
October 1850. 

Jenny Lind's favorite serenading Polka ; or, the National Schottisch. Ar- 
ranged by H. P. Weller : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by 
Willliam. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by William C. Peters, 16 
October 1850. 

Jones (Edward P.) Guadalquiver Quick Step, introducing the popular airs* 
" True Love can ne'er forget," and " On the Banks of Guadal- 
quiver." Composed by Edward P. Jones: 4to 4p — New York, 
published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, 
Pond & Co., 9 February 1850. 

The Return Waltzes. Composed by Edward P. Jones: 
4to 9p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; 
deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850. 

.Keller (Mathias) Pit and Pat. A favorite Song. Sung by Rose Merri- 
iield. Words written and inscribed to Mad. Albertine by Henry 
H.Paul. Music by Matthias Keller: 4to 5p — Philadelphia, 
published by M. Keller & J. Netf, 1850 ; deposited by M. 
Keller & J.Neflf, 8 October 1850. 

"Whene'er I see those smiling eyes. " Words by 
Thomas Moore. Composed and respectfully dedicated to Jenny 
Lind by Mathias Keller: 4to 5p — Philadelphia, published by 
M. Keller & J. Neif; deposited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 Oc- 
tober 1850. 

Little Rose. A favorite ballad. Sung by Rose Merri- 
fiekh Written by Henry H. Paul. Music by Mathias Keller: 
4to 5p — Philadelphia, published by M. Kel'ler & J. Neff; de- 
posited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 October 1850- 

Albertine Polka, as danced by M'lle. Albertine and Mr. 
Wood at the Arch Street Theatre. Composed for the piano by 
Math^s Keller : 4to 2p — Philadelphia, published by M. Keller 
& J. Neff; deposited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 October 1850. 

Song for the Union. Poetry by Freeman Scott. Cora- 
posed for one or four voices, wdth the accompaniment of the 
piano forte by Mathias Keller 4to 15p — Philadelphia, published 
by M. Keller & J. Neff; deposited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 
October 1850. 

American Liberty ; a song national and patriotic by 
Freeman Scott, for one or four voices, with an accompaniment 
for the piano forte by Mathias Keller: 4to 5p — Philadelphia, 
published by M. Keller & J. Neff; deposited by M. Keller & 
J. Neff, 8 October 1850. 

Flow on thou shining river ; a favorite song. W^ords 
by Thomas Moore, music by Thomas Keller : 4to 5p — Phila- 
delphia, published by M. Keller & J. Neff, 1850 ; deposited 
by M. Keller & J. Neff, October 8, 1850. 

" My husband is such a queer fellow ; " a favorite com- 
ic song. Written by Henry H. Paul, music by Mathias Kel- 



303 [ 1 ] 

ler : 4to Op — Philadelphia, published by M. Keller & J. Neif, 
1850; deposited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 October, 1850. 
Keller (Mathias) Freedom's Flag ; patriotic song. Written and respect- 
fully dedicated to Senator Foote, by Robert Jones ; music by 
IMathias Keller : 4to 5p — Philadelphia, published by M. Kel- 
ler & J. Netf; deposited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 October 
1850. 

Love's Messenger ; a favorite song. Words from the 
German; sung by Philip Rohr, at Barnum's. Music composed 
by M. Keller T 4'to rip — Philadephia, publishad by M. Kelle^ 
& J. Neff; deposited by M. Keller & J, Neff, 8 October 1850. 
I live for thee only. Ballad. Words by A. Spencer, 
music by Mathias Keller : 4to 5p — Philadelphia, published by 
M. Keller & J. Neff; deposited by M. Keller & J. Neff, 8 Oc- 
tober 1850. 
Kennedy (Joseph.) Progressive lessons for the Flute ; comprising many of 
the choicest and most popular melodies, arranged with a 
second on the same staff, by Jas Kennedy : 4to 8p — Philadel- 
phia, published by the Author, 17 S. Fifth street ; deposited by 
J. Kennedy, :2:3 July, 1850. 
KiELBLOcK (Francis.) Come back, day-dreams, come back ; Song. Com- 
posed by Francis Kielblock : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by 
G. Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21. Febru- 
ary, 1850. 
King (Frances I.) O, come, smiling June. Written by Wm. B. Patten, 
Composed by Frances I. King: 4to 2p — S. Pearson, 78 
Bleecker street. New York ; deposited 30 December, 1850. 
KiNGSLEY (George.) The Sacred Harmonist ; a new collection of church 
music. Edited by George Kingsley : 8vo long — New York, 
published by A. "S. Barnes & Co., 1850; deposited byA.S. 
Barnes & Co., 1 Februajy, 1850. 
KiRSCiiENHEUTER (J.) Sue Polka. Composed and arranged for the piano 
forte, by J. Klrschenheuter : 4to 2p — Louisville, Ky., pub- 
lished by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, 
Webb & Co., 26 May, 1850. 

Spring Blossom Polka. Composed and arranged for 
the piano forte, by J. Klrschenheuter : 4to 5p — Louisville, 
Ky., pul)lished by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by 
Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850. 
Kneass (Nelson.) " Julia am a Beauty ;" being No. 1 of " Songs of the 
Sable Harmonists ;" piano. Written and composed by Nelson 
Kneass : 4to 5p — Louisville, published by W. C. Peters & 
Co., 1850 ; depositetl by W. C. Peters, 25 May, 1850. 
Kneass (N.) Katy Dean. Written and composed by N. Kneass, being No. 
9 of'" Melodies of the New Orleans Serenaders' Operatic 
Troupe: 4to 4p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & 
Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co.,*9 April 1850. 

Ben Bolt : or, Oh! don't you remember; Ballad. Composed 
by Nelson Kneass ; Second Edition : 4to 5p — Baltimore^ 



[ 1 ] 304 

published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 
18 January 1850. 

Ben Bolt. Chant favori de Kneass. Varie pour le piano par 
Charles Grobe : 4to 7p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Pe- 
ters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 8 March, 1850. 

The Old Veteran. Words by T. H. Bay ley, Esq. Composed 
by Nelson Kneass : 4to 5p — Louisville, published by W. C. 
Peters & Co., 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters & Co., 18 Jan- 
uary, 1850. 

Knight (Joseph Philip) I miss thee from my side, beloved. Ballad, by 
Geo. P. Morris, Esq. The Music composed by Joseph PhiUp 
Knight : 4to 6p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & 
Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850. 

Krollmann (Gustave) "Sweet home Polka." Composed for the piano 
forte by G. Krollmann : 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Pe- 
ters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 
25 May 1850. 

" Ladies, wont you marry ?" being No. 4 of " Songs of the Sable Har- 
monists ;" piano: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, 
Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 
May 1850, 

La Hache (Theod. Von) Woodman Spare that Tree. Polka. Composed 
for the piano forte, by Theod. Von La Hache : 4to 3p — New 
York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by 
Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October 1850. 

La Polka (Linda) Being No 1 of Gems from the Operas. Arranged for 
the harp by T. H. Williams : 4to 8p — New York, published 
by J. F. Browne, 1850 ; deposited by J. F. Browne, 21 Feb- 
ruary 1850. 

Laurence (S.) Song of the Snow. Words by the " Poor Scholar." Music 
by S. Laurence: 4to 5p — New York, published by William 
Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 3 May 
1850. 

Leach (S. W.) " The day Ave two were wedded, " a long time ago. A 
ballad. Poetry by Theo. Woodward, Esq. Composed by S. 
W. Leach: 4to 5p — New York, published by WilUam Hall & 
Son, 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 21 June 1850. 

Lee (Alexander) " I am dreaming of thee Napolitaine." Sung by Miss 
Andrews ; guitar. Composed by Alexander Lee. Arranged 
by G. F. Francis : 4to 3p — Louisvile, published by Peters, 
Webb & Co.; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. 

Lenschow (Charles) Wedding Polka. Composed by Charles Lenschow 
Opus 20 : 4to 5p — published by W.'C. Peters, 1850; depo- 
sited by W. C. Peters, 22 April, 1850. 

Kossuth March. Composed by C. Lenschow. Being No. 
3 of Cottage Duetts. Arranged by J. E. Miiller: 4to 2p — 
Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; depositeil by G. 
Willig, Jr., 21 Februa'ry 1850. 



305 [ 1 ] 

Lenschow (C.) Kossuth March. Composed by C. Lenschow : 4to 5p — 
Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. 
VVillig, Jr., 21 February 1850. 

Betty Polka. Composee par C. Lenschow, et variee pour 
Je piano forte, par Charles Grobe : 4to lip — Baltimore, pub- 
lished by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 
February, 1850. 

The Rose ; song, translated from the German, by the 
Rev. Chas. T. Brooks. Composed by C. Lenschow: 4to 2p — 
Baltimore, published by G. VVillig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. 
Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

Cradle Song. Translated from the German, by the Rev. 
Chas. T. Brooks. Composed by C. Lenschow ; Op. 17 : 4to 
2p — Baltimore, published by G. WilHg, Jr., 1850; deposited 
by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

Sailor's Polka. Composed by C. Lenschow: 4to 8p — 
Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by 
G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

Sehnsucht nach der Heimath ; the Hungarian song of 
Home. Words translated from the German, by Rev. Chas, T. 
Brooks. Composed by Chas. Lenschow ; 4to 8p — Baltimore, 
published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 
24 January', 1850. 

Le Roy (Edward.) The celebrated Robin Ruff Quick-step. Composed by 
Edward Le Roy : 4to 3p — New York, published by Firth, 
Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 
1850. 

Liszt's Hungarian March ; as performed at the concerts of the Steyermar- 
kische Company. An-angcd for the piano forte, by H. J. Peters : 
4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters & Webb, 1850 ; depo- 
posited by Peters & Webb, 25 iVlay, 1850. 

LOpke (C. a.) Violet Waltz. In five steps; composed by C. A. Lopke: 
4to 5p — Baltimore, published by George Willig, Jr. ; depos- 
ited by George Willig, Jr., 21 February 1850. 

LoRENz (Carl) The Wild Flower Waltz, by Carl Lorenz : 4to 2p — New 
York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by 
Firth, Pond & Co. ,'11 October, 1850. 

Juliet Polka, by Carl Lorenz: 4to5p — New York, pub- 
lished by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond 
& Co., 9 February 1850. 

The Empire Waltz, by Carl Lorenz 4to 2p — New York, 
pul)lished by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, 
Pond & Co., 11 October 1850. 
Louisiana Belle ; Chant favori, varie pour le piano, par Charles Grobe: 
4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; depos- 
ited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. 
Lynch (F.) The Negro's Departure; or, Dinah Brown. Words by T. B. 
Prendergast. Melody by F. Lynch; arranged for the piano by 
Mis.— 20. 



[ 1 ] 306 

J. P. Ordway : 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. &, J. P, 
Ordway, 1850 ; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 Octobef 
1850. 
Lyon (D. J.) " Forget me not." Ballad. (Piano) ; written and composed 
by D. J. Lyon : 4to 5p — Louisville, published by Peters, 
Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 
May 1850. 

The day, oh I the daylight forme ;" answer to the " Night, 
oh ! the Night for me." Written and adapted to a German 
melody by D. J. Lyons: 4to 5p — Louisville, published by 
Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 
25 May, 1850. 

Same arranged for Guitar. 

M'Kenna (.J. Theod.) Manor Waltz. Composed by J. Theod. M'Kenna, 
Opus 19 : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Wlllig, Jr., 
1850 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

The Donna Bella Polka. Composed by J. T. M'- 
Kenna : 4to 8p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850; 
deposited by W. C. Peters, 22 April, 1850. 

Mangold (C. A.) The Bird and the Maiden; as sung by Mad'lle. Jenny 
Lind. Composed by C. A. Mangold: 4to 7p — New York, 
published by S. C. Jollie, 1850 ; deposited by S. C. Jollie, 11 
October, 1850. 

Marshall (L.) The old Timepiece on the Stairs ; Quartette. Poetry by 
Longfellow. Composed by L.Marshall: 4to 2p — published 
by A. & J. P. Ordway, Boston, 1850; deposited by A. & J. 
P.Ordway, 19 October, 1850. 

Martinez (Antonio C.) Souvenir de Manhasset Schottische pour Piano, par 
Antonio C. Martinez : 4to 3p — S. Pearson, 78 Bleecker street. 
New York ; deposited by Sidney Pearson, 30 December, 1850^ 

Mason (Henry.) The Picciola Polka. By Henry Mason : 4to 5p — pub- 
lished by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond 
& Co., 11 October, 1850. 

May (A.) Minerva Waltz. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, by 
A. May: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters,. 
1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850. 

May (D. M. H.) In far distant Lands. Written by John Jones. Composed 
and arranged for the piano forte, by D. M. H. May : 4to 2p — 
Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G^ 
Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

Mayhew (Frederick A.) The Cadet March. Composed by Frederick A. 
Mayhew : 4to 3p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & 
Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850. 

Melichar (Osw. Em.) Cordelia Polka. Composed by Osw. Em. Melichar: 
4to Sp—New York, published by W. Hall & Son, 1850 ; de- 
posited by Wm. Hall & Son, 21 June, 1850. 

Melodie Irlandaise. " Come o'er the sea, maiden, with me." Transcrite 
pour piano forte, par W. Vincent Wallace. Op. 53 : 4to 6p- • 



307 [ 1 ] 

New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by 
Wm. Hall & Son, 19 August, 1850. 
Messemer (J.) La Belle de Louisville ; Polka, arranged for the piano forte, 
by J. Messemer: 4to 2p — published by H. J. Peters & Co., 
Louisville, Ky,, 1850; deposited by 11. J. Peters & Co., 25 
May, 1850. 

Taylor's Grand March. Composed for the piano forte, by 
J. Messemer : 4to 2p — Louisville, published by II. J. Peters 
& Co., 1850 ; deposited by H. J. Peters & Co., 25 May, 1850. 

Falls City Gallopade. Composed and arranged for the 
piano, by J. Messemer: 4to 2p — Louisville, published by 
Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by H. J. Peters, 25 
May, 1850. 

Meyerbeer. The Hermit and the Maiden ; Quando Lasciai la Normandie 
Roberto il Diavolo. Sung by Jenny Lind, composed by Meyer- 
beer : 4to 6p — New York, published by S. C. Jollie, 1850: 
deposited by S. C. Jollie, 11 October, 1850. 

"Robert! Robert I thou whom I love," (Robert! Robert! 
toi que j'aime ;) Cavatina. English translation by W.Henry 
Morris. As sung by Mrs. Laura A. Jones. Robert le Diable, 
by Meyerbeer : 4to 9p — New York, published by Wm. Hall 
& Son, 1850 ; deposited by W. Hall & Son, 19 August, 1850. 

Miguel (M.) Farewell to School ; Song or Trio, Written by Geo. D. 
Prentice. Music composed and arranged by M. Miguel : 4to 
6p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb& Co., 1850; 
deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October, 1850. 

MiRUS (Hermann.) Cynthiana Polka. Composed by Hermann Mirus : 4to 
2p^- Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850; 
deposited by Peters, Webb & Co.', 5 October, 1850. 

Molt's (T. F.) fifty-one practical Lessons for first beginners on the Piano 
Forte; consisting of finger exercises, easy rythmical exercises 
and popular airs. Arranged in strict progressive order, and 
fingered for small hands : 4to 20p — New-York, published by 
Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by T. F. Molt, 11 Octo- 
ber, 1850. 

MoRRA (Sig'r. J.) Ladies' Military Polka. Composed by Sig'r. J. Morra : 
4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters^ 1850; depo- 
sited by W. C. Peters, 12 February, 1850. 

Morris Polka, as performed by Dodworth's Cornet Band. Arranged for 
the piano, and dedicated to Morris, by his sister, Caroline Burn- 
ton : 4to 4p — New York, published by Jaques & Brother, 
1850; deposited by Jaques & Brother, 13 April, 1850. 

Mountain Home Quick-step: No. 46 of the Flowers of Youth : a collec- 
tion of favorite airs. Arranged in an easy manner for four 
hands: 4to 5p — New York, published by 'Wm. Hall & Son, 
1850 ; deposited by W. Hall & Son, 19 August, 1850. 

Mozart (W. A.) Fear not, fond youth; " Non paventar;" " O, zittre 
nicht." Grand aria, sung by Mad'lle. Jenuy Lind, in the opera, 
II Flauto Magico. Composed by W.A.Mozart: 4to 7p — • 



[ 1 ] 308 

New York, published at Vanderbeek's, 1850 ; deposited by Win, 
Vanderbeek, 4 October, 1850. 

MuLLER (W.) "I give thee back thy plighted Vow;" Ballad. Words by 
Wm. W. Scrugham, Esq. : to whom the music is most respect- 
fully dedicated, by his friend, W. Midler : 4to 5p — New York, 
published by W. Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by W. Hall & 
Son, 19 August, 1850. 

Hearts and Homes ; Polka. Composed by W. Midler : 4to 
5p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; de- 
posited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850. 
MuLLER (J. E.) Susannah Polka. Composed for the piano forte, by J. E. 
Midler : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Wdlig, Jr.', 1850; 
deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

Soldier's Delight Quick-step. Composed by J. E. Miiller: 
4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 
1850. 

The merry Sleigh-ride ; Gallopade, by Julius E. Miiller: 
4to 8p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; depo- 
sited by W. C. Peters, 22 April, 1850. 

Margaret's Waltz. Composed by Julius E. Midler : 4to 
2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited 
by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

Omnibus Gallopade. Composed by J. E. Midler : 4to 2p — 
Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. 
Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

MuNCK (Johann.) Die Blumenstrauss, or Bouquet Schottisch Polka. Com- 
posed for the piano, by Johann Munck : 4to 4p — New York, 
published by Jaques & Brother, 1850 ; deposited by Jaques & 
Brother, 6 June, 1850. 

Nash (J. P.) " All around and all above thee," or " Maiden fair." Words 
by F. Cosby, Esq. Melody by J. P. Nash. Arranged for the 
piano forte, by H. J.Peters : 4to 5p — Louisville, published by 
Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters & Webb, 25 
May, 1850. 

New Mary Blane Polka. Arranged for the pianoforte; 4to 2p — New 
York, published, by Wm. Hall &, Son, 1850 ; deposited by W. 
Hall & Son, 3 May, 1850. 

" Not Forsaken ;" Song. Words by Prof N. Butler — Theme de Rosellen 
" La Tremolo." Arranged for the piano forte, by H. J. Peters : 
4to 7p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850^ 
deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850. 

Oakley (Wm. H.) The Alleghanians' Boat Glee, by Wm. H. Oakley. 
(Being No. 12 of the Alleghani.ms' Songs, Duetts, Glees, &c.) 
Arranged for the piano forte : 4to 5p — New^ York, published 
by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 
9 February, 1850. 

Oh ! carry me back to Old Virginny, as sung by the Christy Minstrels. 
Arranged for the guitar, by Henry Chadwick : 4to 2p — Kew 



309 [ 1 ] 

York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by 
Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850. 

Oh I Dinah, take this hand. Words written, and music arranged by T. J. 
Sweet: 4to 5p — New Fork, })ul)]ishe(l hy l^'irth Pond & Co., 
1850 ; deposited hy Firth, Pond & Co., li October, 1850. 

Oliver (E, B.) The Exile's Welcome. Maria Festiva ; (March.) Com- 
posed for the piano, by E. B. Oliver: 4to 5p — Boston, pub- 
lished by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850 ; deposited by A. & J. P. 
Ordway; 19 October, 1850. 

Opl (J. K.) " Orphan's Lament." Words by Melodia. Music composed 
by J. R. Opl : 4to 5p, Louisville, published by Peters, Webb& 
Co., ]850; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co.', 25 May, 1850. 

ORDvrAY (J. P.) Welcome, sweet bird of song. Poetry and music com- 
posed by J. P. Ordway, and inscribed to Jenny Lind, on her first 
visit to Boston: 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. 
Ordway, 1850 ; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 
1850. 

The Crystal Polka. Composed for the piano forte, by J. 
P- Ordway : 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 
1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. 

Sweet Nelly Brown. Words and music composed for the 
piano, by John P. Ordway : 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. 
& J. P. Ordway, 1850 ; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 
October, 1850. 

Old Sam Grid-iron. Words by Sam's uncle. Music com- 
posed and arranged by J. P. Ordway : 4to 5p — Boston, pub- 
lished by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850 '; deposited by A. & J. P. 
Ordway, 19 October, 1850. 

Affection's Laurel Wreath, or. Sympathy. Words and 
music composed for the piano forte, by J. P. Ordway : 4to 5p — 
Boston, published by A. & J. Ordway, 1850 ; deposited by A. 
& J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. ' 

"Music fills my soul with sadness." Words by P. Gil- 
more. Music composed for the piano, by J. P. Ordway : 4to 
5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; depo- 
sited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. 

The death of Gen. Taylor. Sung by Ossian E. Dodge, 
Esq. Poetry and Music composed by John P. Ordway : 4to 
5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; depo- 
sited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850'. 

Otto (F.) Sunset on the Sea. The poetry by Charles P. Shiras, Esq. 
Adapted to melody by F. Otto. Arranged for the piano, by 
Charles Grobe : 4to JJp — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, 
Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 Februa'ry, 1850. 

P. (E. H.) Le premier debut Valse, par E. IL P. : 4to 2p — E. Pearson, 
78 Bleecker street. New York ; deposited by Sidney Pearson, 
30 December, 1850. 

Palfrey (George.) Lottie Waltz. Composed and arranged for the piano 
forte, by George Palfrey : 4to 2p — New York, published by 



[ 1 ] 310 

Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 
February, 1850. 

Pearson (S.) " Longings for the Spring time." Written by W. A. C. 
Music composed and arranged by Sidney Pearson — New York, 
published by S. Pearson, 1850 ; deposited by Sidney Pearson, 
7 June, 1850. 

Pendleton (Mrs. Ed. H.) Farewell to the Land where the heart-tide is 
Springing, or the M'lvor's Farewell. Arranged as a Duett. 
Compose(l by Mrs. Ed. H. Pendleton: 4to 2p — Baltimore, 
published by'W. C.Peters, 1850, deposited by W. C.Peters, 
16 October, 1850. 

Penot (A.) La Pyrenenne ; the new Quadrille. The figures invented by 
Mons. Zaryshowki. Music composed by A. Penot ; 4to 5p — 
New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by 
Wm. Hall & Son, 3 May, 1850. 

Peters (W. C.) Jessie of Glengyle. Words by W. H. Donoho, Esq. Music 
by W. C. Peters; (Piano): 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by 
W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 
1850. 

" We stood beside the window." Chant favori de W. C. 
Peters. Varie pour le piano, par Chas. Grobe : 4to 7p — Bal- 
timore, published by W. C. Peters ; deposited by W. C. Petrs, 
6 May, 1850. 

" Cincinnati Hop Waltz ;" being No. 1 of the Flowers of 
Youth. Arranged for four hands, by W. C. Rayner. Composed 
by W. C. Peters : 4to 5p — New York, published by Wm. Hall 
& Son, 1850 ; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 3 May, 1850. 

Sing, and remember me ; Ballad. Written by J. H. Hewitt. 
Music composed by W. C. Peters : 4to 5p — Baltimore, pub- 
lished by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 
February, 1850. 

Pfister (A. S.) Irene Waltz. Composed by A. S. Pfister : 4t6 3p — New 
York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by 
Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850. 

Philippi (M.) The Twilight Waltzes. Composed by M. Philippi : 4to 9p — 
New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited 
by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850. 

A Rose without a Thorn ; Polka. Composed by M. Philippi : 
4to5p— New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; 
deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850. 

Phillips (Austin.) " The hero who dares, is the hero who wins." Sung at 
the grand complimentary ball given in honor of Major General 
Zachary Taylor, on the 5th of February, 1850. Words by Chas. 
D.Stewart, Esq. Music by Austin Phillips: 4to 5p — New 
York, W. Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by W. Hall & Son, 19 
August, 1850. 

"The dearest name;" Duett, for soprano and tenor 
voices. Composed by A. Phillips : 4to 5p — New York, pub- 



311 [1] 

lished by Wm. Hall & Son ; deposited by Wra. Hall & Son, 21 
June, 1850. 
Pike (Marshall S.) Happy are we to-niglit. Words and music by Marshall 
S. Pike, Esq Arranged for the piano, by J. P. Ordway : 4to 
5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850; depo- 
sited by A. & J. P. Ordwa'y, 19 October, 1850! 

Home again. Words and music by Marshall S. Pike, 
Esq. Arranged for the piano, by J. P. Ordway: 4to Op — 
Eoston, jmblished by A. & J. P. Ordway; deposited by A. & 
J. R Ordway, 19 October, 1850. 

The Indian warrior's grave. Poetry and music by Mar- 
shall S. Pike, Esq. Arranged for the piano, by J. P. Ordway : 
4to 5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway ; deposited 
by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. 

** Pirates' Chorus ;" from the Enchantress. Arranged, with variations for 
the piano forte, by Anthony Reiff", Jr. : 4to 7p — New York, 
published by Wm.'Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by Hall & Son, 
19 August, 1850. 

Play (The) of life Polka. Arranged for the piano forte, byChas. Grobe ; 
Opus 140: 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 
1850 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

Pleasant Summer days (The) ; Subject from a German Melody. Arranged 
for the piano forte, by J. F. Wahl : 4to 3p — Louisville, Ky., 
published by Peters, Webb & Co. ; deposited by Peters, Webb 
& Co., 5 October, 1850, 

PouLTON (Geo. R.) Beautiful May ; Song. Composed by Geo. R. Poulton : 
4to 5p — New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850 ; de- 
posited by W^m. Hall & Son, 3 May, 1850. 

Prentice (Mrs. Geo. D.) " Would I were with thee ;" Ballad. Written 
by Hon. Mrs. Norton. Music composed by Mrs. Geo. U. Pren- 
tice. Arranged for the guitar, by G. F. Francis : 4to — Louis- 
*vi!le, pulilished by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by 
Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850. 

Same, arranged for jjiano. 

Reissiger. Sweet morn of life ; Song. Music by Reissiger. Words and 
arrangement by Henri : 4to 7p — New York, jiublished by 
Jaques &, Brother ; deposited by Jaques & Brother, 6 June, 
1850. 

Renausy, New Scottish Dance, as taught by Mademoiselle Pauline Desjar- 
dins. Music composed by Renausy, Arranged for the piano 
forte, by Henri : 4to 3p — New York, ]Hd)lished by Ja(|ues & 
Brother, 1850 ; deposited by Jaipies & Brother, 13 April, 1850. 

Rosa Lee; being No. 4 of Cottage Duetts. Arranged by J. E. Midler: 
4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. W^illig, Jr., 18.30; depo- 
sited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850^ 

Rose of Tralee. Arranged for the guitar, by B. F. Francis: 4to 2p — 
Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited 
by Peters, W^ebb & Co., 25 May, 1850. 



[ 1 ] 312 

RosiGNOL Polka (The). Arranged for the guitar, by Mrs. Knoop : 4to 
2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited 
by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. 

Rowan Tree (The). A favorite Scotch Ballad; as sung by Mr, DuffiekL 
Arranged for one or two voices, by W. C. Peters, with guitar 
accompaniments : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Pe- 
ters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. 

Russell (B. A.) Elfin Polka. Composed and arranged for the piano forte, 
by B. A. Russell: 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth. 
, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 Febru- 

ary, 1850. 

RziHA (Francis.) The American National Boquet ; a set of brilliant waltzes, 
composed by Francis Rziha ; 4to 14p — Baltimore, published 
by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 22 April, 
1850 

Home ! Sweet Home : as a waltz, by Francis Rziha. 
American Boquet, No. 1 : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by 
W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 
■ 1850. 

Star Spangled Banner : as a waltz, by Francis Rziha. 
American National Boquet, No. 2 : 4to 2p — Baltimore, pub- 
lished by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 
August, 1850. 

Hail Columbia : as a waltz, by Francis Rziha. American 
National Boquet, No. 3 : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. 
C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. 

Melodeon Waltz ; by Francis Rziha. American National 
Boquet, No. 4 : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 
1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. 

Believe me, if all those endearing young charms ; as a 
waltz, by Francis Rziha. American National Boquet, No. 5: 
4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1*50; depo- 
sited by W. C. Peters, 6 August,' 1850. 

Love not ; as a waltz. Composed by Francis Rziha. 
Being No. 6 of the American National Boquet, a sett of bril- 
liant waltzes, as performed by the Steyermarkische Company : 
4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; depo- 
sited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. 

The Papageno Polka. Being No. 4 of the Boudoir Polkas. 
Composed for the piano forte, by Francis Rziha : 4to 5p — Bal- 
timore, published by W. C. Peters ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 
16 October, 1850. 

Old Whitey's Polka. Composed for the pinno, by Francis 
Rziha: 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P. Ordway, 
1850; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. 

The Amourette Polka. Being No. 3 of the Boudoir Polkas. 
Composed for the piano forte, by Francis Rziha : 4to 5p — Bal- 
timore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C, 
Peters, 16 October, 1850. 



313 [ 1 ] 

RziHA (Francis.) The Crambambuli Polka. Being No. 2 of the Boudoir 
Polkas. Composed for the piano forte, by Francis Rziha : 4to 
5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited 
by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. 

Sands (H. B.) La Gazelle Rondo Valse, par H. B. Sands : 4to 5p — New 
York, chez Guillaume Vanderbeek, 479 Broadway ; deposited 
by Wm. Vanderbeek, 20 December, 1850. 

Santa Anna's March. Being No. 14 of W. C. Peters & Co.'s Selection of 
admired Duetts, for two performers on the piano forte. Ar- 
ranged by W. C. Peters: 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. 
C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. 

Saul (Geo.) Bury me in the little churchyard. Words by J. H. Warland. 
Music by Geo. Saul: 4to 5p— New York, published by Wra. 
Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 7 March, 
1850. 

ScHERPF (John C.) Sketch Club Waltzes. Composed by John C. Scherpf : 
4to 8p — New York, published at Vanderbeek's, 1850; depo- 
sited by Wm. Vanderbeek, 4 October, 1850. 

ScHMiTT (Georges.) Korma. Grand Fantaisie brillante, pour le piano. 
Compose par Georges Schmitt : 4to 29p — New York, published 
by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 
11 October, 1850. 

ScHMiTT (J.) New Music Hall Waltz. Composed by J. Schmitt. Arranged 
by P. Y. Densari : 4to 2p — New York, pul)lished by S. Pear- 
son, 1850 ; deposited by Sidney Pearson, 11 October, 1850. 

ScHREiNEH (Hermann.) Souvenir de Wilmington Polka. Composed by Her- 
mann Schreiner : 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Pe- 
ters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850. 

Forget me not. Waltz. Composed by Hermann 
Schreiner: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 
1850 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

Schubert's Beautiful Melody, La Serenade. Arranged as a vocal Duett, 
by Leopold Hoffman : 4to 7p — New York, published by Firth, 
Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 
1850. 

ScinvARZ (J.) "Parce Domine," for penitental occasions. Composed by J. 
Schwarz: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 
1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, '1850. 

" Tantum Ergo." Composed by J. Schwarz : 4to 2p — 
Baltimore, published by J. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W\ 
C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. 

ScHwiNG (Henry.) Louisa Polka. Composed by Henry Schwing : 4to 2p — 
Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. 
C. Peters, 22 April, 1850. 

Tiiree Ave Marias, for Soprano and Alto, with an accom- 
paniment for the organ. Composed by Henry Schwing : 4to 
5p— Baltimore, pubHshed by Geo. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited 
by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 



[ 1 ] 314 

ScHwiNG (Henry.) Margaret Polka. Composed by Henry Schwing : 4to 
2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited 
by G, Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

Scull (B. F.) Deer Creek Polka. Composed by B. F. Scull: 4to 5p — 
Philadelphia, Couenhoven & Duffy ; deposited by Couenhoven 
& Duffy, 21 December, 1850. 

Serious Family Polka (The). Arranged by George Loder : 4to 3p — New 
York, published by S. C. Jollie, for G. Loder ; deposited by &, 
C. Jollie, 26 June, 1850. 

(Same.) Arranged for the piano forte, by John Munck : 4to 
4p — New York, published by Jaques & Brother, 1850; depo- 
sited by Jaques & Brother, 22 February, 1850. 

Shaw (Oliver J.) " The Elysian Isle." No. 2 of " Gift Songs." Tbe 
poetry by James H. Collier, Esq. Music composed and arranged 
by Oliver J. Shaw : 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, 
Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 
1850. 

Song of the Cloud. [Being No. 1 of Gift Songs.] The 
poetry by James H. Collier, Esq. Music composed and arranged 
by Oliver J. Shaw : 4to 5p — New York, published by Firth, 
Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 Febru- 
ary, 1850. 

Sinclair (R.) Ben Bolt. A fovorite Song. The words by T. Dunn, Esq. 
The music composed by R. Sinclair : 4to 5p — New York, pub- 
lished by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond 
& Co., 11 October, 1850. 

"Sleeping, I dreamed. Love." From Wallace's beautiful melody, Le 
Reve. Arranged with brilliant variations for the piano forte, by 
John C. Sche'rpf : 4to lip — New York, published by Wm. 
Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by W. Plall & Son, 21 June, 
1850. 

Smith (J. B.) "How shall I tell thee," Song. Composed a'hd arranged 
for the piano, by J. B. Smith: 4to 2p — Louisville, published 
by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb .& 
Co., 25 May, 1850. 

Snow (The). Words by Charles Lamb, Esq. Adapted and arranged to an 
" Old English melody," by James G. Ma?der : 4to 5p — New- 
York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850 ; deposited by W, 
Hall & Son, 1 March, 1850. 

SoFGE (Flenry D.) Souvenir d'Hungary. Composed for the piano forte, by 
Henry D. Sofge: 4to 5p — Louisville, Ky., published by Pe- 
ters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co.^ 5 
October, 1850. 

Lilie Waltz. Composed for the piano, by Henry D. 
Sofge: 4to 5p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb 
& Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October, 
1850. 

Les Adieux Valse. Composed for the piano forte, by 
Henry D. Sofge : 4to 2p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, 



315 [ 1 ] 

Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 Oc- 
tober, 1850. 

SoFGE (Henry D.) Sentimental Waltz. Composed for the piano, by Henry 
D. Sofge : 4to 3p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb 
& Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October, 
1850. 

Cincinnati Polka, Mazurka. Composed for the piano 
forte, by Henry D. Sofge : 4to 5p — Louisville, published by 
Peters, Webb & Co., Ib50 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 
25 May, 1850. 

Newport Polka. Composed for the piano, by H. D. 
Sofge: 4to 2p — Louisville, Ky., published by Peters, Webb 
& Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 October, 
1850. 

SoifG (The) she loved to sing. Ballad. Words from the City Item. Ar- 
ranged for the pianoforte, by J. T. Stoddard : 4to 5p — Balti« 
more, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. Wil- 
lig, Jr., 21 February, 1850!" 

Sphor (Louis.) Lovely Maiden, (Schones Madchen,) Duett, from Sphor's 
Opera of Jessonda. Arranged by W.C.Peters: 4to lip — 
Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. 
C. Peters, 16 October, 1850. 

Lovely Maiden ; Duett, from Jessonda. Music by L. Sphor, 
Arranged by J. F. Petri. Being No. 22 of W. C. Peters & Co.'s 
Selection of admired Duetts, for two performers on the piano 
forte : 4to lip — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; 
deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 1850. 

Stoddard (J. T.) Evergreen Waltz. Being No. 1 of Cottage Duetts. Com- 
posed by J. T. Stoddard. Arranged by J. E. Miiller : 4to 2p— 
Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. 
Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

Stop that knocking. Being No. 5 of Cottage Duetts. Aranged by J. E. 
Miiller : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850; 
deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

Strakoscii (M.) Rosee du Matin. Etude poetiquc pour le piano, par M- 
Strakosch: 4to lip — Baltimore, pul)lished by W. C. Peters* 
1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 6 August, 1850. 

A selection of choice compositions of Maurice Strakosch. 
Serenade Andalousie : 4to lOp — Louisville, Ky., published by 
Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 
25 May, 1850. 

California gold fever Gallop Scherzo. Composed by M. 
Strakosch: 4to 9p — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb 
& Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 
1850. 

Strauss. Alice Polka. Composed by Strauss. Arranged for the piano forte, 
by C. Lenschow : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, 
Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 



[ I ] 316 

Strauss' celebrated Bell Waltz. Arranged for the piano forte, by Dr. C. 
Lorenz : 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 
1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850. 
The Greek Waltz, by Strauss. Arranged as a duett for the piano 
forte, by Henry Goold. [Being No. 25 of Firth, Pond & Co.'s 
Selection of admired Duetts for two performers on the piano 
forte :] 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 
1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850. 

Striby (William.) The Battle of Buena Vista. Composed and arranged 
fur the pianoforte, by Wm. Striby : 4to 12p — Louisville, pub- 
lished by H. J. Peters & Co., 3850; deposited by H.J. Peters, 
25 May, 1850. 

" In bliss we shall meet thee." Written on the death of 
Miss Serene N. Davis, by Rev. S. Dyer. Composed for the 
piano, by William Striby : 4to 5p — Louisville, published by 
Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 
25 May, 1850. 

SuABiAN Waltz. Arranged by J. E Midler : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published 
by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 Feb- 
ruary, 1850. 

" SuEKY Lane." Written by Miss Z. B. of Brooklyn, N. Y. Music adapted 
and arranged by N. W. Gould, of Christy's Minstrels. Sung by 
E. P. Christy : '4to 5p — New York, published by William Hall 
& Son, 1850 ; deposited by William Hall & Son, 19 August, 
1850. 

Swedish Nightingale Waltz. Composed for the piano forte, by an amateur: 
4to 5p — New Yoik, published by S. Pearson, 1850 ; deposited 
by Sidney Pearson, 11 October, 1850. 

Swift (H.) "I loved thee when in earlier years." Written by the Rev. Geo. 
W. Bethune. Composed by H. Swift : 4to 2p — New York, 
published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond 
& Co., 9 February, 1850. 

"I loved thee when in earlier years." Words by G. W. 
Bethune, D. D. Composed and arranged for the guitar, by H. 
Swift: 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 
1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850. 
SzEMELENYi (Emst.) Csardas No. 3 ; Hungarian Air. Composed by E. 
Szemelenyi : 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 
1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 22 April, 1850. 

Kossu;h's Grand Hungarian National March. Ar- 
ranged for the piano forte, by E. Szemelenyi : Baltimore, pub- 
lished by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 
February, 1850. 

Csardas II.; Hungarian Air. " Tout est perdu horrais 
I'Honneur." Opus 18; by E. Szemelenyi: 4to 5p — Balti- 
more, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. Wil- 
lig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

Mad' lie Jagiello's Magyar Quick-step. Composed by 
E. Szemelenyi. Opus 19 : 4to 4p — Baltimore, published by 



317 [ 1 ] 

W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 18 January, 
1850. 
SzEMELENYi (E.) The Hungarian Exile. Words by Mrs. Phelps. Music 
by Ernst Szemelenyi : 4to 2p — Baltimore, published by G. 
Willig, Jr., 1850; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 
1850. 

The Musical Treasure ; a circle of progressive pieces for 
young performers. Composed by Ernst Szemelenyi : 4to lip — 
Baltimore, published by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. 
Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. ; 

Csardas ; Hungarian's Lament. Composed by' Ernst 
Szemelenyi. Op. 17: 4to 5p — Baltimore, published by G. Willig, 
Jr., 1850'; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 February, 1850. 

Csardas No. 4 ; " Hungarian Dance." Composed by E. 
Szemelenyi : 4 to 5p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 
1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 22 April, 1850. 

Elegie Poetique. Composed by E. Szemelenyi. Opus 
20 : 4to 7p — Baltimore, published by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; de- 
posited by Wm. C. Peters, 22 April, '1850. 
Taylor (Geo. C.) Music Room Waltz. Composed and arranged for tire 
piano forte, by Geo. C. Taylor : 4to 9p — New York, published 
by Firth, Pond & Co., 18o0 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 
11 October, 1850. 

Temple (J. P.) Emma Dale. Arranged for the pianoforte. Words by Wm- 
N. Chambers. Music by J. P. Temple : 4to 4p — New Orleans, 
published by Wm. T. Mayo, 1850 — New York, by Firth, Pond 
& Co., 1850 ; deposited by Wm. T. Mayo, 9 April, 1850. 

Ennna Dale. Composed by J. P. Temple. Arranged for 
the guitar, by Thomas J. Marlen : 4to 3p — New Yoik, pub- 
lished by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond 
& Co., 7 June, 1850. 

There's love for you and me. Words by the late Thomas Hood, Adapted 
and ai-ranged by J. H. Hewitt: 4to 2p — Baltimore, published 
by G. Willig, jr., 1850 ; deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 Feb- 
ruary, 1850. 

** There's magic in that little song ;" a popular Ballad. Arranged for tire 
piano, by Mad'lle Anna Ablamowicz : 4to 5p — Louisville, 
])ul)lished by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, 
Webb & Co., 25 May 1850. 

(Same.) Arranged for the guitar. 

"They say there is an echo there." Music of the Alleghanians, Songs, 
Duetts, Glees, &c.. No. 8. : 4to 5p — New York, puMished by 
William Hall & Son 1850 ; deposited by Wm. Hall k Son, 19 
May, 1850. 

Thomas (E.) "The dew is onthe Blo.^som ;" Serenade. Written by Amelie. 
Music by E.Thomas. Arranged for the guitar: 4to 5p — Bal- 
timore, j)ubiished by W. C. Peters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. 
Peters, 16 October, 1850. 



[ 1 ] 318 

Thorbecke (Edward.) Aridante, for the organ or piano forte. Composed 
by Edward Thorbecke: 4to 5p — Baltimore, pubHshed by W-. 
C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 16 October, 
1850. 

The Boat Horn. Words by Gen. W. O. Butler. 
Composed by E. Thorbecke : 4to f5p — Baltimore, published 
by G. Willig, Jr., 1850 : deposited by G. Willig, Jr., 21 Feb- 
ruary, 1850. 

** Thou art gone away, Mary;" Ballad. Sung by Joseph H. M'Cann. Words 
by R. T. Cosby. Melody by a lady. Arranged for the piano 
forte, by H. J. Peters : 4to 2p — Louisville, published by Pe- 
ters & Webb, 1850 ; deposited by Peters & Webb, 25 May, 
1850. 

*< *Tis but an hour since first we met." Ballad, by W. Preston Wolley, 
Music arranged by William Cumming: 4to 6p — Baltimore, 
• published by"W. C. Peters, 1850; deposited by W. C. Peters, 
16 October, 1850. 

Trifles ; Song. Words taken from the Albany Express. Music composed 
by the author of " You and Me" : 4to 5p — New York, pub- 
lished by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Boardman & 
Gray, 9 February, 1850. 

Tucker (Henry.) The Maiden's Tear. Words by J. R. Meeker, Esq. The 
music composed by Henry Tucker : 4to 5p — New York, pub- 
lished by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond 

6 Co., 11 October, 1850. 

The Forest Queen. Words by E. C Hine, U. S. N- 
Composed by Henry Tucker : 4to 5p — New York, published 
by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co.^ 
11 October, 1850. 

Twilight Dews. Arranged for the guitar, by Lewis Tripp : 4to — Louis- 
ville, published by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by 
Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850. 

Underner (John.) My woodland home, I love thee well ; Ballad. Com^ 
posed and arranged for the piano forte, by John Underner : 4to 
Gp — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; depo- 
sited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850. 

I'd like to Uve in yonder star ; a Ballad. Composed for 
the piano forte, by John Underner : 4to 5p — New York, pub- 
lished by Firth, Pond & Co. ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co.^ 

7 June, 1850. 

Mo-dalena Polka. Composed by John Underner • 4to 
2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; depo- 
sited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850. 

Vater (T. J.) "The blind boy's been at play, Mother;" as sung by the 
Apollonian Melodists. Written by Miss Eliza Cook : Quartette, 
Composed and arranged for the piano forte and Spanish guitar, 
by T. J. Vater : 4to 5p ; deposited by T. J. Vater, 16 Decem- 
ber, 1850. 



319 [ 1 ] 

Very worst Polka (The). By Schlecter als Schlecht : 4to 5p — New Yort, 
published by Sidney Pearson, 1850 ; deposited by Sidney Pear- 
son, 2 November, 1850. 

ViENi ah Vien ; from La Favorita. Arranged by John C. Scherpf: 4to 
2p — New York, published at Vanderbeek's, 1850 ; deposited 
by Wm. Yanderbeek, 15 October, 1850. 

Virginia Rosebud. Being No. 5 of Songs of the Sable Harmonists. Ar- 
ranged for the piano forte : 4to 4p — Louisville, Ky., Peters, 
Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 5 Oc- 
tober, 1S50. 

W^AGNER (Ferdinand.) Coterie Waltz ; as performed by Munck's band> 
Composed by Ferdinand Wagner: 4to 7p — New York, pub- 
lished at Vanderbeek's, 1850 ; dejiosited by Wm. Yanderbeek, 
4 October, 1850. 

Wahl (J. F.) The Bowling Green Waltz, for the piano. Composed by J, 
F.Wahl:4toop — Louisville, published by Peters, Webb & 
Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & Co., 25 May, 1850. 

Wallace (W. Vincent.) Innocence ; Romance. Composed for the piarro 
forte, by W. Vincent Wallace : 4to 5p — New York, published 
by Firth, Pond & Co. ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 Jan- 
uary, 1850. 

Warren (Geo. W.) Old Haunts ; Ballad. Composed by Geo. W.Warren: 
4to 3p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 : 
deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 April, 1850. 

The Passions ; Waltzes. Composed by Geo. W^. 
Warren : 4to 7p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & 
Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 
1850. 

Love's Twilight Star ; as sung by Miss Electa Cone. 
Music composed by G. W. Warren. Arranged for the guitar, 
by Thomas Crouch : 4to 2p — New York, jiublished by I'irth, 
Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 Octo- 
ber, 1850. 

"Sunshine and Dew;" Ballad. Written by Lilly 
Graham. Composed by Geo. W. Warren : 4to 3]) — New York, 
published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850; deposited by Wm. Hall 
& Son, 19 August, 1850. 

Weber (C. H.) Missouri Waltz, for the piano. Composed by C. II. Weber : 
4to — Louisville, published by II. J. Peters & Co., 1850; depo- 
sited by H. J. Peteis & Co., 25 May, 1850. 

Weisel (Paul K.) Gaslight Schottisch. Composed for the piano forte, by 
Paul K. Weisel: 4to 4p — published at Vanderi)eek's, 1850 ; 
deposited by Wm. Yanderbeek, 4 October, 1850. 

Wells (S. A.) "Philena, my dear, or, she dances so neatly." Words and 
melody by S. A. Wells, Esq. Music arranged for the piano, 
by J. P. Ordway : 4to 5p— Boston, published by A. & J. P. 
Ordway, 1850; deposited by A & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 
1850. 



[ 1 ] 320 

Wells (S. A.) "Poor Posey, or, She's f^on across de sandy plain." Words 
and melody by S. A. Wells, Esq. Music arranged for the piano, 
by J. P. Ordway : 4to 5p — Boston, published by A. & J. P, 
Ordway, 1850 ; deposited by A. &. J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 
1850. 

Wels (Charles.) Grand Funeral March ; as played by Dodworth's band, 
on the occasion of the funeral solemnities in the city of New 
York, to the memory of Gen. Zachary Taylor, July 23d, 1850. 
Composed by Chas. Wels : 4to 3p — New York, published by 
Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 
October, 1850. 

WetMore (W. J., M. D.) Cousin Carrie ; a Song. Written by Carl Linley. 
Composed by W. J. Wetmore, M. D. : 4to 7p — New York, 
published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by W. J. 
Wetmore, 9 April, 1850. 

Norah M'Shane ; Ballad. Poetry by Miss Eliza 
Cook. Music by W. J. Wetmore : 4to 5p — New York, pub- 
lished by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond 
& Co., 9 April, 1850. 

White (C.) " Do not go away, my lady love." No 2 of Ethiopian Me- 
lodies of White's Serenaders ; as sung by them at their concerts. 
Composed by C. White : 4to 5p — New York, published by 
Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 
June, 1850. 
(J. M.) Cleopatra Hyde ; a Duett and Chorus. Words by Prof. 
Sligo. Music by J. M. White : 4to 5p — Boston, published by 
A. & J. P. Ordway, 1850 ; deposited by A. & J. P. Ordway, 
19 October, 1850. 

Williams (T. H.) Petit Fantasie, for the harp, on the celebrated Ethiopian 
Melodies, " Lousiana Belle," "Uncle Ned," and "Susannah." 
Composed by T. H. Williams : 4to lip — Baltimore, published 
by W. C. P'eters, 1850 ; deposited by W. C. Peters, 22 April, 
1850. 

(Waters F.) I'm still unchanged to thee; Ballad. Composed 
by Waters F.Williams: 4to 3p — New York, published by 
Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 
February, 1850. 
Wilson (J.) " Tell me how to woo thee ;" a beautiful Ballad. Written 
by M. Graham. Arranged for the guitar, by Frnncis. Music 
by J. Wilson: 4to — Louisville, published liy Peters, Webb &. 
Co., 1850 5 deposited by Peters, Webb & Co!, 25 May 1850. 
(Same.) Arranged for piano. 

Maiden's Lament, or, Despairing Mary. Words by T. C> 
Music by J. Wilson: 4to 5-o — Louisville, published by Peters, 
Webb & Co., 1850; deposited by Peters, Webb &'Co., 25 
May, 1850. 

WooDBUKY (I. B.) Sweet Memories Waltz. Composed by I. B. Wood- 
bury : 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co,, 
1850 ; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 June, 1850. 



321 [ 1 ] 

Woodbury (I. B.) We're all at home, or, When evening shadows. Com- 
posed by I. B. W^oodbury : 4to op — New York, published by 
Firth, Pond & Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 
June, 1850. 

Woodbury (I. B.) Elfin Quick-step, by I. B. W^oodbury : 4to 2p — New' 
York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited by 
Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850. 

" Be kind to the loved ones at home ;" Song, composed 
by I. B. Woodbury. Arranged for the guitar, by J. D. Anguera : 
4to 6p — Boston, published by A. &. J. P. Ordway : deposited 
by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October, 1850. 

" Be kind to the loved ones at home ;" Song, composed 
byl. B. Woodbury. Arranged as a quartett, by J. B. Ordway : 
4to 5p — Boston, publishetl by A. &, J. P. Ordway ; deposited 
by A. & J. P. Ordway, 19 October 1850. 

" Forget not the loved ones at home." Written and 
composed by I. B. Woodbury: 4to 5p — New York, published 
by Firth, Pond &. Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, Pond &, Co., 
7 June, 1850. 

"Ye mariners of Spain;" Ballad, arranged for the guitar as a duett, for 
two equal voices, by M. R. H. : 4to 5p — Louisville, published 
by Peters, Webb & Co., 1850 ; deposited by Peters, Webb & 
Co., 25 May, 1850. 

(Same.) An-anged for the piano, by M. R. H. 

" You and I." Written by J. Francis, Esq. Arranged for the piano forte, 
by H. J. Peters : 4to 2p — Louisville, published by H. J. Peters 
& Co., 1850 ; deposited by H. J. Peters & Co., 25 May, 1850- 

You and Me ; Song. Words by the late Thomas Hood. Composed and dedi- 
cated with esteem, to " Cally." Arranged with symphonies and 
accompaniments, for the pianoforte: 4to 3p — Albany, pub- 
lished by Boardman & Gray, 1850 ; deposited by Boardman & 
Gray, 11 October, 1850. 

ZoKER (Maximilian*) The May l^reezes. Words translated from the Ger- 
man, by Chas. G, Leland. Composed by M. Zorer : 4to 5p — 
New^ York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited 
by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February, 1850. 

May Breezes Waltz. By Maximilian Zorer : 4to — 
New York, published by Firth, Pond & Co., 1850 ; deposited 
by Firth, Pond & Co., 9 February 1850, 

The Bird and the Snare, W^ords by C. G. Leland, Esq. 
Composed and arranged for th.^ Spanish guitar, by Max Zorer : 
4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond &. Co. ; deposited 
by Firth, Pond & Co., 11 October, 1850, 

The Bird and the Snare. Words from the German, by C. 
G. Leland, Esq. Composed by Max Zorer: 4to 4p — New" 
York, published by Firth, Pond k. Co., 1850; deposited by Firth, 
Pond & Co., 9 April, 1850. 

Mis^21. 



[ 1 ] 322 

ZoRER (Max.) The May Breezes. Words from the German, by Chas, G. 
Leiand, Esq. Music composed and arranged for the guitar, by 
Max Zorer : 4to 2p — New York, published by Firth, Pond & 
Co., IBjO; deposited by Firth, Pond & Co., 7 February, 
1850. 



PJRT in — LIST OF MAPS, CHARTS, PRIJVTS, and LABELS. 



Almanac Card. Deposited by William W. Rose, 9 July, 1850. 

Bellingham (0.) A Chart of the Signs furnished by Auscultation and Per- 
cussion, and of their application to the diagnosis of diseases of 
the lungs. Revised and arranged by P. Claiborne Gooch, A. 
M., M. D., &c., from the French of 0. Bellingham, M. U. P. 
Made up from the works of Laennec, Williams, Barth and Roger, 
Gerhard, Fournet, Spittal, and other high authorities. Published 
by Morris & Brother, Richmond, Va. ; deposited by P. CI. 
Gooch, 21 November, 1850. 

BoN Samaritain (Le) de Moffat. [Wrapper used by Dr. Wm. B. Moffat, 
on his medicine, called "The Phoenix Bitters."" Three copies, 
French, Spanish and German.] Deposited by Wm. B. Moffat, 
M. D., 30 May, 1850. 

BosTiAN (J. M.) Directions for measuring and drafting Garments, by the 
tendon steel spring, by J. M. Bostian : 12mo olp — Sunbury, 
published by the Author, 1850; deposited by Jonathan M. Bos- 
tian. [Together with a waist measure on a separate sheet, by 
J. M. Bostian ;] deposited, 28 December, 1850. 

Brooks (L.) Perpetual Almanac ; showing the dominical letters, leap years, 
days of the month and week ; and all dates, near and remote, 
past and future, with inf\illible accuracy, for ten thousand years 
from the beginning of the Christian Era. By L. Brooks : depo- 
sited by L. Brooks, 16 February, 1850. 

Perpetual Almanac ; showing the dominical letters, leap years, 
days of the month and week ; and all dates, near and remote, 
past and future, with infallible accuracy, for ten thousand years 
from the beginning of the Christian Era. [Card:] deposited by 
L. Brooks, 27 March, 1850. 

Simple and compound Interest Table, and Indicator, for any 
amount from one cent to $1000, at 6 per cent., from one day to 
seven years ; warranted accurate. Also a short and easy method 
of equation of payments, time table, table of interest of one 
dollar, from one day to twelve months, and table of compound 
interest. [Card :] deposited by L- Brooks, 27 March, 1850. 

Simple and compound Interest Table, and Indicator, for any 
amount from one cent to JjislOOO, at 6 percent., from one day to 



323 [ 1 ] 

seven years ; warranted accurate. Card : deposited by L, 
Erooks', 27 March, 1850. 
Chateau de la Grange, the birthplace of Lafavettc. Print : deposited by 
J. P. M'Lean, 26 April, 1830. 

Coffin (Eben S.) Tables, showing at one inspection, the difference of Lati- 
tude and Departure, on every quarter point course for any dis- 
tance under 60 miles : 8vo 2p — Boston, 1850 ; deposited by 
Eben S. Coffin, 25 July, 1850. 

Compound Syrup of Hops and Boneset. Label : deposited by C.W. H. Tem- 
ple, 20 February, 1850. 

Disturnell's (J.) new map of Central America, showing the different 
lines of Atlantic and Pacific communication — New York, pub- 
lished by J. Disturnell, 157 Broadway, 1850 ; deposited by J. 
Disturnell, 5 July, 1850. 

New map of the United States and Canada, showing all 
the ca.nals, railroads, telegraph lines, and principal stage routes. 
Drawn by Henry A. Burr, Topographer of the Post-office De- 
partment, Washington — New York, published by J. Disturnell, 
1850 ; deposited by J. Disturnell, 15 July, 185(3. 

Equarian Condition Powders. Label : deposited by W. H. Wyatt, 27 
December, 1850. 

Fahnestock's (B. a.) Vermifuge. Label : deposited by Fiawdon, Wright, 
Hatch & Bdson- 

FiSHER (Samuel B.) and Sheafer (P. W.) Map of the first and second 
anthracite coal-fields in Pennsylvania ; embracing Schuylkill 
county, and parts of Carbon, Luzerne, Columbia, Northumber- 
land, Dauphin, and Lebanon counties, by Samuel B. Fisher and 
P. W. Sheafer : published by Robert P. Smith, 15 Minor street, 
Philadelphia ; deposited by R. P. Smith, 2 March, 1850. 

Forsha's Balm Liniment. Laliel : deposited by Samuel W. Forsha, 13 

May, 1850. 
Fowler's (P. G.) improved Model ; or. Dress-making made easy. With 

plain instructions: 8vo 8p, and chart — New York, Butler & 

Brown, printers and wood engiavers, 1850 ; deposited by P. G. 

Fowler, 2d October, 1850. 

GoocH (P. Claiborne.) See : Bellingham (O.) 

Hoofland's celebrated German Bitters. Circular and Engraving ; depo- 
sited by Dr. C. M. Jackson, 15 July, 1850. 

Jewett (Stephen) & Co.'s Chromolith Card — Boston, Chromolith of 
J. H. Bufford &Co. ; deposited by S. Jewett & Co., 19 March, 
1850. 

Jewett (Stephen) & Co.'s highly and justly celebrated strengthening Plas- 
ter. Buiford & Co.'s Lithograph — Boston: Laljcl ; deposited 
by S. Jewett & Co., 26 December, 1830. 

Jewett (Stephen) & Co.'s highly celebrated Pulmonary Elixir. J. H. Buf- 
ford & Co.'s Lithograph — Boston: Label; deposited bv S. 
Jewett &. Co., 26 December, 1850. 



[ 1 ] 324 

Jewett (Stephen) & Co.'s celebrated health restoring Eitters. J. H. Buf- 

ford & Co.'s Lithograph — Eoston : Label; deposited by S. 

Jewett & Co., 26 December, 1850. 
LiND (Jenny,) in the Opera of La Somnambula. New York, Wm. Hall 

& Son : Print ; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 21 June, 

1850. 

LiND (Jenny.) New York, published by Wm. Hall & Son, 1850 : Print ; 

"deposited by W^m. Hall & Son, 21 June, 1850. 
LiND (Jenny,) in the Opera of La Fille du Regiment. New York, Wm. 

Hall & Son : Print ; deposited by Wm. Hall & Son, 21 June, 

1850. 

" Master's Carpet," by Sherer & Co., Pike street, between Congress and 
Third street, Cincinnati, 1850 : Chart ; deposited by J. Sherer, 
26 December, 1850. 
Masury's Compound Extract of Sarsaparilla and Wan-a-hoo. [Label.] 
Mercer County. Map of Mercer county. New Jersey, entirely from origi- 
nal Surveys, by J. W^. Otley and J. Keily, Surveyors — Lloyd 
Vanderveer, publisher, Camden, N. J. ; deposited by Robert P. 
Smith, 21 June, 1850. 

Moffat's celebrated Phoenix Bitters. [Label.] One copy of the wrapper 
used on the same, entitled " The Good Samaritan ;" deposited 
by Rawdon, Wright, Hatch & Edson, 18 May, 1850. 

Vegetable Life Pills. New York, designed and engraved 
by Rawdon, Wright, Hatch & Edson: Label; deposited by 
Rawdon, Wright, Hatch & Edson, 

New England, New York and Canada. Sherman & Smith's Railroad, Steam- 
boat and Stage route map of New England, New York and 
Canada. By J. Calvin Smith — New York, published by Sher- 
man & Smith, 1850; deposited by Sherman & Smith, 21 De- 
cember, 1850. 

Newman's portable Sun-dial and perpetual Calendar : A small Chart ; de- 
posited by James Newman, 1 July, 1850. 

Pennington & Co.'s aerial Steamship, or composite Balloon : A lithogra- 
phic Print ; deposited by J. H. Pennington, 30 July, 1850. 

PuLsiFER (John S.) [A lithographic Print, containing a number of short 
precepts, in a new alphabet: "Remember the Truth," " The 
Truth shall exalt thee," &c., with remarks on a new Orthogra- 
phy, &c.; all in a new alphabet.] John S. Pulsifer, Orwigsburg, 
Schuylkill county, Pa. ; deposited 21 December, 1850. 

Saint Paul's Travels. The Countries embraced within the Travels of St. 
Paul : A miniature map, on pasteboard ; deposited by A. M. 
Wilder and Geo. W. Fitch, 15 February, 1850. 

Smith's (A. A.) Chart of Elocution. Printed at the Telegraph book and job 
office, Ashtabula, Ohio ; deposited by A. A. Smith, 3 December, 
1850. 

Smith (Jas. B.) & Co.'s Philadelphia Blank Book Manufactory: Print; 
deposited by Jas. B. Smith, 29 August, 1850. 



325 [ 1 ] 

Sutter (T, A.) An engraved likeness of T. A. wSutter. Painted by S. S. 
Oso:oo(l : engraved l>y J. Sartain ; deposited by S. S. Osgood, 
iTjuly, 1850. 

Texas. Map of Texas, compiled from Surveys recorded in the General 
Land Office, by J. Eppinger and F. C. Eak(>r, IH-ll. [On the 
S. E. corner of the same, a] "■ Map of New Mexico, California 
and Utah :" deposited by Sherman &. Smith, 21 December, 
18.50. 

Washington's Headquarters, from north-east, Newburg : Print ; deposited 
by J. P. M'Lean, 26 April, 1850. 

Youman's Chart of Chemistry ; in which the fundamental laws and facts 
of the science, affinity, the composition and decomposition of 
bodies, combining equivalents, or definite and multiple propor- 
tions, the atomic theory, chrystallization, fermentation, isomer- 
ism, the nomenclature and formula are illustrated to the eye in 
a clear and simple manner. Published by Edward L. Youmans 
and J. Richard Burdsall, New York, 1850 ; deposited by Ed- 
ward L. Youmans, 18 December, 1850. 



HAMILTON, PUBLIC PRINTER. 



Speciai. Sf..ssiox, [SENATK.] Mi.m i i.i.Axr. 

March, IS'jl. No. 'i. 



LET! ER 



THE n N. I). L. Y r LEE. 

Stating t/ii' reasojnf which will induce hiia to confcst the scat of the Hon. 
Stephen R. Mali-orv, who was declared to be c/crted the Senator 
from Florida for the ensuing term. 



Ut'ud aixl crdi.lcd to lie jjr'mtrd. 



Washington. Mairli ^, IB-ll . 
To the Senate of the United States: 

I beg leave to present an extract from the daily Journal oi" the Ge- 
neral Assembly of Florida, printed by authority and for the use of that 
body, showing the proceedings and vote which took place on the 13th day 
of January last, in the choice of a Senator ol the United States, 'for the 
term conunencing the 4th of March current. 

It will be seen the President of the joint meeting announced there was 
no choice, in consequence whereof the legislature ])roceeded in several 
successive votings, until on a subsequent day, it was announcerl that the 
Hon. Stephen R. jNIallory was chosen. 

After a careful examination of the subject, I have a strong conviction, 
that the first voting completed an election, that in fact and right, I was 
then duly and constitutionally chosen, and that all the subsequent proceed- 
ings were therefore void. 

It appears that I was the only persoii put in nomination — that no votes 
were given for any other eligible peison — and that more than a majority 
of a quorum of the elective body declared me to be their choice. 

It is understood that the legislature acted under an impression that the 
concurring voices ol" a major jiart of all th.e members elected to the two 
branches (the aggregate being Hity-nine) was necessai'y to a choice; and 
that number (to wit, thirty) not having declared for an eligible person nu 
choice was thought to have b?en made. 

If I w^as legally elected, as I believe to be the case, it is my duty to as- 
sert a right to the office ; and as a failure to do so now, when the Senate 
is convened, and I am present in the city, might be interpreied into an 
abandonment of claim, or at tlK^ least into negligence in ils assertion — I 
have thought it incumbent u])on me to bring the subject to the notice ot 
the body. But as rny fiicnd Mr. Mallory, wito will (loubt!( ss i-egard it his 
duty to present himself with his credentials, is not now here, it is liot my 
purpose or wish to press the question, nor to ask a decision until he can be 
present. 

With rer^pect and consideration, your Itllf-w citi/en, 

D. L. vlll:i:. 



L -'] 2 

Extract from the Journal of the General Assembly of Florida^ for the 
Vith day of January, 1851. 

On motion of Mr. Milton, 

A committee of three, consisting of Messrs. Milton, Baker and Ward- 
law, was appointed to wait upon the Senate, and inform that body of the 
readiness of the House to proceed to the election of United States Senator 
and other officers, according to resolution previously adopted by the two 
Houses. 

A committee from the Senate, announced that the Senate would be 
ready in a few minutes to proceed to said elections. 

The Senate entered the Hall, and the President, upon invitation of the 
Speaker, took the chair. 

The President having announced the object of the joint meeting and 
that the election for Senator was now in order; 

Mr. Milton nominated David L. Yulee for that office. 

The first vote resulted as follows : 

For Yulee: — Senate — Mr. President, Messrs, Brown, of Columbia, 
Brown of Hillsborough, Forward, Johnson, Maxwell, Mosely, Perry and 
Taylor — 9. House — Mr. Speaker, Messrs. Anderson, Bennett, Bradley, 
Burnham, Dilworth, Finlayson, Hawes, James S. Jones, John W. Jones, 
Kenan, Kilcresse, Lott, Magbee, Milton, Smith, Standley, Steele, Taylor 
and Wardlaw— 20. Total, 29. 

Blank: — Senate — Messrs. Austin, Avery, Baldwm, Buddington, Craw- 
ford, Finley, McMillan, Smith and Stewart — 9. House — Messrs. Allen, 
Baker, Battle, Brett, Brownell, Brown, Bryant, Ferguson, Geiger, Hop- 
kins, Langford, Long, Mathers, Maxwell, McCall, Plummer, Scott, Shine, 
Turner and Wilkinson— 20. Total, 29. 

The President announced that there was no election. 



HAMILTON, PUBLIC PRINTER. 



t 



Special Session, [SENATE.] Rep. Com. 

March, 1851. No. 1. 



REPORT 

OF 

THE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, 

Relative to the construction to be given to the act of September 20, 1850, 
so far as it relates to the Mileage of Senators from California. 



March 10, 1851. 

Submitted ;ind ordered to be printed. 



Mr. Cooper made the following Report : 
The Committee on the Judiciary, to whom was referred the resolution of 
the Senate directing the said committee to inquire and report whether 
the act of Congress of the 20th of September, 1850, so far as the same 
relates to the mileage of the Senators from California, is permanent or 
temporary in its provisions, 

REPORT : 

That they have carefully considered the provisions of the aforesaid act, 
and are of opinion that so much of the same as provides " that the mileage 
of the Senators and Representatives from California, and the Delegate from 
Oregon, be computed and paid, according to the most usual travelling 
route within the limits of the United States," is permanent ; and that the 
mileage of the Senators from the State of California, should be ascertained 
and paid in pursuance of this provision. 



In Senate of the United States, 

March 8, 1851. 
On motion of Mr. Hunter, 
Resolved, That the President of the Senate, having stated to the Senate 
a question as to the true construction of the act of the 20th September, 
1850, in relation to the mileage of the Senators from California : 

Ordered, That it be referred to the Judiciary Committee, to inquire and 
report whether the said act so far as relates to the mileage of the Senators 
of California is permanent or temporary in its provisions. 

(Attest,) ASBURY DICKENS, 

Secretary. 



[ 1 ] 



FROM THE HON. WILLIAM M. GWIN, IN RELATION TO HIS MILEAGE. 

Submitted to the President of the Senate pro tempore. 

ASBURY DICKENS, Secretary of the Senate. 



Senate Chamber, March " 1851. 
AsBURY Dickens, Esq., 

Secretary of the Senate. 
Sir : — In my letter to you of the 30th September last, in relation to my 
mileage as a Senator, I stated the distance, in conformity with the provi- 
sion of the act of 20th September, ISoO, to be five thousand and ten miles 
coming, and the same returning. That act, however, being only a tem- 
porary one, and operative only upon the then session, no longer applies to 
the subject ; and I now request you to state my mileage at six thousand 
eight hundred and fifty-three miles from my place of residence in Califor- 
nia, to Washington, and the same returning, in c(?nformity with the act of 
22d January, 1818. This is strictly in accordance with the unanimous 
decision of the committee on mileage of the House of Representatives, in 
fixing the mileage of the Representative from my State, at the session 
just expired. A copy of that decision is appended. 

WM. M. GWIN. 



Washington, D. C., February 27, 1851. 
To the Members and Senators from California. 

Gentlemen : — I have received your letter of yesterday, requesting my 
opinion as regards the mileage to which you are entitled by existing laws, 
for the last and present session of Congress. As to the last session, I 
think mileage is regulated by the proviso to tbe first section of the act of 
20th September, 1850, page seventy-two, entitled '^ An act to supply a 
deficiency in the appropriation for pay and mileage of members of Congress 
for the present session." 

The appropriating clause as well as the title, apply only during " the 
present session,"" (1849-50.) To that clause, providing for your mileage 
at that session, is appended a proviso, limiting the charge under that ap- 
propriation, to a computation according to " the most usual travelling 
route within the limits of the United States." I feel, therefore, constrained 
to say, that your mileage, in my judgment, at the last session, must be 
governed by that proviso. 

As to your mileage at this session, until otherwise provided by law% I 
think it is governed by the act of January 22, 1818, (3 Stat, at Large, 404.) 
That act fixes the mileage and per diem of members of Congress by a per- 
manent law applying in all time to come, until repealed or modified here- 
after, in relation to old as well as new members, and so universally con- 
strued. It is entitled " An act allowing compensation to the members of 
the Senate, members of the House of Representatives of the United States, 
and to the delegates of the Territories, and repealing all other laws on 
that subject." 



3 • [ I ] 

It is provided in the first section of this act, " That at every session of 
Congress, and every meeting of the Senate in the recess of Congress, after 
the third day of March, one thousand eight hundred and seventeen, each 
Senator shall be entitled to receive eight dollars for every day he has at- 
tended or shall attend the Senate, and shall also be allowed eight dollars 
for every twenty miles of estimated distance, by the most usual road from 
his place of residence to the seat of Congress, at the commencement and 
end of every such session and meeting ; and that all sums for travel already 
performed, to be due and payable at the time of passing this act." 

It must be conceded that your mileage at this session, is governed by 
this act, unless the proviso before quoted should be ruled to apply. In 
my judgment that proviso has no application beyond the session of 1849-50, 
for the following reasons ; 

The proviso is attached to " the act to supply a deficiency in the appro- 
priation for pay and mileage of members of Congress for the present ses- 
sion." The first section of that act are in these words: 

" That the sum of one hundred and sixty thousand dollars be, and the 
same is hereby appropriated out of any money in the Treasury not other- 
wise appropriated, for the payment of mileage and per diem of Senators, 
niembers of the House of Representatives and delegates in Congress at the 
present session ; two thousand three hundred and thirty dollars for addi- 
tional expense for stationary for members of the House of Representatives 
during the present session ; Provided, That the mileage of the Senators 
and Representatives from California and the delegate from Oregon, be 
c&mputed according to the most usual travelling route within the limits 
of the United States ; and the per diem of said Senators and Represen- 
tatives for this session, shall commence for the day on which the Consti- 
tution of California was first communicated to the two houses of Congress 
respectively." 

It will be perceived, that the operation of the law is limited in the body 
of the act as well as in the title to " the present session." The act then 
being confined in its very terms to the last session, the proviso to that act 
can only have an operation in point of time co-extensive wnth that of the 
law itself. This is the general and well established rule in the construc- 
tion of statutes, that if the operation of an act is limited therein to a spe- 
cified period, a proviso to that act must have a similar limitation, unless 
it is otherwise expressly declared in the proviso. 

This general rule of construction applies still more strongly to the an- 
nual appropriation laws of Congress, and with irresistible force to all an- 
nual appro])riations for deficiencies. If, however, any doubt could remain 
as regards this question, it must be removed, on reference to the decision 
of the Supreme court of the United States, in the case of Minis versus the 
United States, (15 Peters, 423.) 

In that case, the question was, whether a proviso to an annual appro- 
priation bill of Congress w^as permanent in its o])eration, or expired with 
the termination of the year for which the appropriation was made. It was 
the unanimous o})inion of the court that the effect of the proviso was tem- 
porary, and commensurate only as to time with the operation of the law. 

The views of the court on this point are given at })ages 445-6-7, and 
would seem to he conclusive. The court say " the argument on behalf 
"of the United States is, that this proviso although found in a mere appro- 
"priation law of a limited nature, is to be construed by reason of the words 



[ 1 ] 4 

" ' or for any other service or duty whatsoever unless authorized by law,' " 
to be permanent in its operation, and applicable to all future appropria- 
tions, where officers of the army are employed in such service or duty ; 
and that it appears from the record, that this was the very ground on 
which the Treasury Department rejected the claim of Doctor Minis for 
commissions. The same question has been made and fully argued in the 
case of Gratiot vs. the United States, at the present term, and we have 
given it our deliberate consideration. We are of opinion that such is not 
the true interpretation of the terms of the proviso ; and that it is limited 
exclusively to appropriations made at the session of eighteen hundred and 
thirty-five. 

" It would be somewhat unusual to find engrafted upon an act making 
" special and temporary appropriations, any provision which was to have 
" a general and permanent application to all future appropriations. Nor 
" ought such an intention on the part of the legislature to be presumed, 
" unless it is expressed in the most clear and positive terms, and where 
" the language admits of no other reasonable interpretation. The office 
" of a proviso generally, is either to except something from the enacting 
*' clause or to qualify or restrain its generality, or to exclude some pos- 
'' sible ground of misinterpretation of it, as to extending to cases not in- 
" tended by the legislature to be brought within its purview. A 
" general rule, applicable to all future cases, would most naturally be 
" expected to find its proper place in some distinct and independent en- 
" actment." 

Indeed, that was a much stronger case than this, for in that case, the 
words used in the proviso might have been construed to give it a perma- 
nent operation. There are no such words in this proviso. On the con- 
trary, the words '■' during the present session," immediately precede the 
proviso, and are directly connected with it, and to construe this proviso 
as permanent, is to violate the express language and manifest intention of 
the law and the settled rules of construction. 

In conclusion, I entertain no doubt, that if the question were before4he 
Supreme court of the United States, it would be decided unanimously by 
that tribunal, upon the principles adopted by them in the case of Minis 
before quoted, that the effect of this proviso was temporary and limited 
by the operation of the act to which it was appended, and that as regards 
all future sessions of Congress, the mileage of the Members and Senators 
from California must be governed by the act of 22d January, 1818, until 
otherwise provided by law. 

Very respectfully, 

Your obedient servant, 
(Signed) R. J. WALKER. 



Office of the Sergeant-at-Arms, 
House of Representatives, March 3, 1851. 
I certify that the Committee on Mileage of the House of Representa- 
tives have unanimously reported as follows, in reference to the mileage of 
the members from the State of California : 

" There having been no special provision regulating the mileage of the 



5 [ 1 ] 

" representatives from California, for this (second session thirty-first Con- 
*' gress,) the committee are constrained to allow their mileage in con- 
*' formity with the law of January 22, 1818. I accordingly so direct. 
"The ' most usually travelled road,' appearing to be by Panama, their 
" mileage will be computed by that route. 

" (Signed) GRAHAM N. FITCH, 

March 3, 1851. *' Chairman Committee on Mileage.*' 



In conformity with the above report, the following amounts have been 
allowed and paid : 

To Hon. G. W. Wright, (Stockton,) 7,013 miles. 

To Hon. Edward Gilbert, (San Francisco,) 6,853 miles. 

A. J. GLOSSBRENNER, 
Sergeant-at-Arms House of Representatives, U. S. 



Special Session, [SENATE.] Executive, 

March, 1851. No. 1. 



REPORT 



THE SECRETARY OF WAR, 

COMMUNICATING, 

In compliance with a resolution of the Senate, copies of the orders hy lohich 
Brevet Colonel Plympton was assigned to duty according to his brevet 
rank, together ivith the correspondence in relation thereto. 



March 1, 1851. 

Ordered to lie on the table. 

March 7, 1851. 

Ordered to be printed. 



War Department, 

Washington, February 28, 1851. 
Sir: In compliance with a resolution of the Senate of the 26th instant, 
i have the honor to submit herewith " a copy of General Order No. 47, 
'■ dated. 27th December, 1850, issued from the War Department, by which 
' Brevet Colonel J. Plympton, Lieutenant Colonel of the 7th Infantry, was 
' assigned to duty according to his brevet rank, whilst stationed at JefFer- 
' son Barracks, and under which he w^as assigned to the command at that 
' post ; together with all correspondence and other documents connected 
' with said order." 

By virtue of this order, Colonel Fauntleroy, of the 1st Regiment of Dra- 
goons, was superceded in the command of that post. Both these officers 
are "in the line of the army ;" Colonel Fauntleroy is senior by ordinary 
rank to Lieutenant Colonel Plympton, but the latter is superior by brevet 
rank, and consequently, in the view of the Department, when assigned to 
(hity according to that rank, became the superior of Colonel Fauntleroy. 
The laws under which the above order was issued, were the Gist and 62d 
Articles of War. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

C. M. CONRAD, 

Secretary of War. 
Hon. Wm. R. King, 

President of the Senate. 



[ n 



LIST OF ACCOMPANYING PAPERS. 



General Order, No. 47, December 27, 1850. 

Letter of Colonel Fauntleroy to the President, February 6, ISol, enclosinoj 
copy of Memorial addressed to the Senate by Army Officers at Corpus 
Christi, in December, 1845, on the subject of General Scott's letter of 
November, 1845 : and report of Senate Committee on the said Memorial, 
in March, 1846. 

Letter of C. M. Fauntleroy to the Secretary of War, January 19, 1851, en- 
closing letter of J. K. "Barnes. 

Remarks of Major General Scott on Colonel Fauntleroy's letter, February 
11, 1851. 

Decision of the President and Secretary of War, upon Colonel Fauntleroy's 
case, February 16, 1851. 



War Department, 

Adjutcmt GeneraPs Office, 

Washington, December 27, 1850. 
General Orders — No. 47. 

Brevet Colonel J. Plympton, Lieutenant Colonel 7th infantry, is as- 
signed to duty according to his brevet rank while stationed at Jefferson 
Barracks, and will assume command of the post. 

By order, 

L. THOMAS, 
Assistant Adj. General. 

Washington, D. C, February 6, 1851. 
To the Hon. C. M. Conrad, 
Secretary of War. 
Sir : — I have the honor to enclose a letter to the President of the 
United States, on the subject of General Orders No. 47, dated "War De- 
j)artment. Adjutant General's Office, Washington, December 27, 1850," 
which I desire to forward through you, together with the copy of the me- 
morial from the officers of the army from Corpus Christi, in 1845. 
Very respectfully, your oliedient servant, 

THOS. T. FAUNTLEROY, 
Colonel First Regiment Dragoons. 



[ 1 ] 



Washington, D. C, February 6, 1851. 
7'o Aw Excellency the President of the United States : 

Sir : I have the honor to state that, on the 8th ultimo, an order was 
received at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri, in the following words and 
figures, to wit : 

War Department, 

Adjutant GcncraPs Office. 
General Orders — No. 47. 

Brevet Col. J. Plympton, Lieutenant Colonel 7th Infiintry, is nssigncd 
to duty according to his brevet rank while stationed at Jefferson Barracks, 
and will assume the command of the post. 

By Order 
L. THOMAS. 

Assistant Adj. General. 

At the time of its reception by Brevet Colonel Plympton, Lieutenant 
Colonel, 7th infantry, the undersigned was in command, and had been so, 
from the 21st day of November 1850, being the Colonel of the 1st Regi- 
ment of Dragoons, and senior to the above mentioned, officer in the line of 
tlie army. \\y this order it wijl be perceived that I was superceded in 
commanrl of the post, and compelled to be commanded in turn by my ju- 
nior. This the undersigned begs leave most respectfully to say, hi Ids 
opinion, is illegal and uiijust, and agauist it he desires to be allowed to re- 
monstrate. 

Deeming the order, as I am l»ou,nd to do, as c-oming from the President 
of the United States, I am brought face to face as it were with this high 
functionary, in an attitude of complaint against ^•!n act of his own. Tiiis 
cannot but subject me to much difficulty,. Although I shall not be able 
liowever to divest myself of the embarrassment necessarily arising from that 
liigh respect which is due from an inferior officer of the government, and in 
the present instance most certainly entertained towards the Chief Magis- 
trate and Constitutional Commander in Chief of the Army: I shall pro- 
ceed, trusting that the degree of jny consideration will be estimated in ex- 
act j>roportion to the confidence with which I present my case. 

1 object to, the order first, on the ground that it is irregular, as will ap- 
[H\ir on its face, in omitting the name of the commander by whom it was 
given, (see par. 908 General Reg. of the Ainiy, 1847.) 

By this paragraph, in the case of the most ordinary order that can come 
from the Adjutant General's Office in the common routine of every day bu- 
siness, tiiis fact must l)e made to a])pe'ar on the face of the order, but when 
we know that this order should and could come alone from the J^resident, 
ihe rule will not be rendered: less important, as a regulation, but of infi- 
uitcly <rreater moment to the officer affected, (see 02d Article of War.) 
'I'.his article is law and not regulation, and invests the senior ofHcer of tlu- 
line, on duty in garrison, with rights that can only be divested by the Pre- 
sident himself. The power here given is evidently out of the usual course 
<->i orders, and when exercised, it f)ecomes of infinitely greater importance 
that the officer whose interests are involved should be fully advised of the 
source from wliich it proceeds. The words are used in the article applica- 



[ 1 ] 4 

ble to this power, "according to the nature of the case." The irresistible 
inference from this is, that circumstances are here alluded to, which may or 
may not exist, to make it necessary for the Executive interposition ; and it 
requires no great force of imagination to discover, that when they do so ex- 
ist, that the dearest rights and interests of an officer may be implicated in 
the most serious manner, from the unavoidable and inevitable deduction, 
that it has been resorted to from real or supposed defects in the officer in 
command, and a higher degree of merit, on the part of the one advanced 
over him. Surely then, it can be but a small boon for an officer to be in- 
formed when thus dealt with, by whose hand he has been degraded, and it 
cannot on any plan of reasoning be thought that this rule should be adhered 
to in unimportant cases, and wholly disregarded when they assume a cha- 
racter of high importance. It is not one of the least difficulties which I 
have to contend in the present instance, in exercising the acknowledged right 
of an officer, that of respectfully remonstrating, when injuriously affected 
by the act of his superiors, that I am in truth, most painfully ignorant of 
the source from wdience it proceeded. I have said, I believed it came from 
the President; this is merely technical. If by possibility it came from any 
other person, and that fact had been fully known to me, I should have 
I'egarded it as much as my commission was worth, to have yielded it obedi- 
ence. I should have considered myself as justly censurable, for yielding up 
my command under circumstances of manifest irregularity, and most assured- 
ly amenable to the 15th par. General Reg. of the Army, 1847. This is 
not a common case of brevet rank taking etTect ipso facto, by the meeting 
of mixed corps on detachment or courts martial. I was in garrison and the 
law expressly gave to me the right to command unless otherwise directed 
by the President. He alone then can make the assignment and none other 
and by no possibility am I able to know this fact, so necessary to direct my 
duties, when the words " by order" only are appended. The importance of 
this question cannot be placed in a clearer point of view, than by calling to 
mind the contingent alternative, to which an officer may readily be reduced 
in the most conscientious discharge of his duty, that of hazarding his com- 
mission and even his life, in maintaining his supposed rights under circum- 
stances rendered obscure, by the neglect to comply w^ith rules made for the 
government of the Army, in the very quarter from whence they emanated ; 
an actual step perhaps I have been only saved from by accidental prudence, 
or an habitual respect I have always taught myself to cultivate towards or- 
ders generally coming from high sources. I might ask argumentatively 
who is meant by the words "by order?" There are several persons at 
Washington who can give orders. Do Ihey mean the President? I know 
not by what rule of interpretation the necessary degree of certainty may 
be arrived at on this point. They are not more definite with regard to the 
Secretary at War. We cannot say that the General Commanding in Chief 
is decidedly indicated thereby. And if perchance I should guess the Ad- 
jutant General, there would be two to one against my being right. It 
w^as not intended that an officer should be thus embarassed in any service, 
and much less, wdiere an easy anrl convenient rule had been provided al- 
ready, and for that reason should be rigidly adhered to. 

That the President of the United States can alone make the assignment 
to duty on brevet rank, under the (i2d Article of War, is as clear as the 
foregoing proposition. To prove this, it will only be necessary to advert 
to the invariable practice under laws similar in their provisions. When a 



5 [ I ] 

law is passed by Congress, the Prcslcleiit is required to sign it to make it 
valid ; this can be done by no otlier anti make the Ltw valid. He has the 
power to veto a law — no other functionary can do tliis and invalidate a 
law. The power of appointment of ollicers to the army is given to the 
President; no other a})pointment would be etfectual. The President can 
strike an officer from the rolls of the army ; it cannot be supposed that any 
one could be substituted for him in the exercise of this hi<2hly delicate au- 
thority. It is not unworthy of remark, precisely at this point, that no 
where is brevet i-ank made subservient to any ofticer connected with the 
army or under the government, save the President of tlie United States 
over and above them, the necessity tor the President to exercise this power 
himself and none other, arising from the j'act that the law says so, (see 62d 
Article of War, par. 13 and lo, General Reg. of the Army 1S47,) an argu- 
ment by no means insignificant may also be derived from the words used in 
the Article of War itself, "according to the nature of the case." An allu- 
sion is here evidently made to the existence of circumstances which may vary 
in their character, and call for the special judgment and discretion of the Pre- 
sident ; and it may well be supposed that an ofticer whose rights were thus 
to be disposed of, would feel himself entitled to this special judgment and 
<Iiscretion. It is no disparagement to any one to say that an ofhcer would 
feel his rights and interests more secure, under the decision of the President 
than under any other officer of inferior grade. It is an irresistible inference 
that the law so intended and so construed it, when this power was thus 
personally and specifically deleg;ated. It is not improbable too, that pre- 
judices take root in the army and grow rank ; and it is by no means* won- 
derful that an officer who has secured to him i)y existing laws, the free and 
impartial judejment of the Chief Magistr.ile of the nation, upon points touch- 
ing his character, rank and honor, should be unwilling to trust his fortunes 
to the decision of a fatal bias, that perchance may have had its origin in 
the hot bed of controversial excitement, and be at least unf\ivora1)le to dis- 
])assionate decision. It may v\'ell be imagined that the law was made to 
guard against evils of this kind, and surely if thei-e were none other to fear, 
this alone would be sufficient to vindicate its wisdom and foresight. 

As the dictum has been put out by an officer high in rank, that brevets 
are equal to commissions in the line, from which if true, it miglit be argued 
that assignment would be unnecessary by any one ; I would beg leave to 
i-emark that if this }iropositioii be incontrovertible, there would be an end 
to all law on the sul)ject and the 62(1 Article of War be waste paper. If 
l)revets convey full, positive, potential rank, how is it that officers daily sit 
on courts martial in their own corps, and brevets are wholly impotent, not 
contended for, not even discussed, as if by possibility they could take effect 
there ? This could by no means be the case if brevet commissions were 
full and complete commissions, competent to all ])urposes of militarv com- 
mand, and in this respect standing on precisely the same fooling as in the 
British service. It has been also said and written by an oflicer high in 
rank, " wuth respect to staff officers in the presence of seniors assignment by 
the common senior was necessary, (see Major General Scott's letter to Ge- 
neral Taylor, November 17, 1H4-').) This same officer has written, it is 
perfectly obvious from the whole structure of the aiiicle, (()lst article,) 
tliat regimental officers' brevets only are restricted, and that too only within 
the regiment or other established corps ; (see letter to Secretary at W^ar, 
February, 1827.) in the same letter, page 41, the following case is put : 



[ 1 ] 6 

1 will suppose General G. to be the Lieutenant Colonel of the corps of En^ 
gineers, with his present rank of Major General hy brevet, August 15, 1814, 
General Macomb is the actual Colonel of that corps, with the brevet rank 
of Major General, September 11, 1814. His name would therefore be 
printed above that of General G., the older Major General in the array by 
nearly a month. Let us farther suppose that these officers are serving to- 
gether in that corps, and without achnixture or junction of other regiments 
or corps ; and that General G. should claim the command as being appoint- 
ed over or set over General Macomb in the army. The latter would im- 
mediately refer to the 61st Article, in which the case is expressly excepted 
and provided for, and reduce General G. to obedience within the corps." 
How, I respectfully ask, can this be law, and it certainly is law, and yet 
brevet rank be considered full, complete and unlimited, and effectual for all 
military purposes in the army at large ? 

I have, I humbly conceive thus far shown that this order was irregular 
in form in not giving the name of the commander ; and that the assignment 
should be by the President himself. If it was made by the President him- 
self, then my objections as far as I have gone, go only to matters of form ; 
and if not by that high functionary, then to the substance of the order and 
it was wholly illegal. Taking it for granted however, " that that was done 
which ought to have been done," and therefore the order was made by the 
President himself, there yet remains a stronger and quite as palpable an ob- 
jection to it, in either point of view, going to its entire substance, on the 
score of its illegal and oppressive character. 

It may be said I should not argue matters of form — matters of form are 
often as important to the grossest offender, as matters of substance. A 
nuin may justly deserve to be hanged, but no one will deny that he is enti- 
tled to be hung properly and according to law. It is just here that the 
line runs between well regulated and well administered law, and what is 
vulgarly called lynch law ; and thus it is not very difScult to account why 
very many well disposed persons are betrayed into a resort to this violent 
■remedy in extreme cases, from a" too little regard paid to form. 

But to the last and most important objection mentioned, and to which 1 
most respectfully and most earnestly claim the Executive consideration. 
This order divests me of my legitimate command illegally and oppressiveh\ 
and in a manner I feel perfectly confident was not intended by the Presi- 
dent. Dill I for a moment feel otherwise, the last thing I would think of 
would be to present myself before him as I now do. This high and exalt- 
ed functionary I am fully persuaded, in time of profound peace, without 
any public exigency and where troops were stationed at a post not even on 
a hostile frontier, deliberately do an act not called for by any considera- 
tions of the ])ul)lic interest, and not justified under any, a single instance of 
military precedence, which voluntarily and gratuitously degrades an officer 
of the army, wdiatever might be the general low estimate he might be in- 
duced to make of him, by any evidence whatever short of the imputation 
of possible guilt. Thus when this order first reached my post, I hastened 
with all possible despatch to the seat of government, not doubting for one 
moment that definite charges had been filed against me at the War Depart- 
ment, or through some unknown channel, a mass of accusative information 
had been collected there, which had thrown upon me the blight of unques- 
tionable crime and atrocity ; I was in some degree saved in my private 
character and feelings, when I found no such information had preceded me 



7 [ 1 ] 

■or the order, for had my suspicions been justified and the facts garnered 
against nie, sustained by any just evidence, 1 was the rather prepared to 
teniler my conuaission than elicit a more general exposure by fruitless ex- 
postulation or remonstrance. The military and official injury however re- 
•nuiins in full force against me, so long as the order in question remains un- 
rescinded. 1 was in command of the post of Jefferson barracks by virtue 
lof my senior line rank, under the iy2d Article of War, which directly in- 
vests me with that right, unless the Presitlent should specially direct other- 
'tt'ise according to the nature of the case. 

Is it mere imagination for me to suppose that the words '' according to 
•the nature of the case" mean nothing? that thereby circumstances are not 
alluded to, which varying in their character, may sometimes attach to a cas(! 
making it necessary for the Executive interposition but witliout which his 
right to do would be incomplete. 

Can it be supposed for one moment that this clause was intended to give 
•unconditional power to the President to degrade an officer without causer 
and without consideration? It will not lie so contended by any one. The 
converse of the proposition is then equally true and clear, that if the cir- 
cumstances should not l)eof a character to warrant his intei'position he could 
not do so legally : without this construction of the article the power would 
•run at once into the full })0wer to strike an officer fiom the rolls without, 
cause and without responsibility. Whatever may however, be the con- 
struction placed upon it, even if it should be deemed to convey the unlim- 
ited power to strike from the rolls of the army, my argument remains un- 
impaired. The President cannot justly strike an officer from the army rolls 
from mere caprice. I deny not the power but the right, no one will con- 
tend that he could do this act without cause and justify himself to himself 
•or his country. The act in my case is but one degree short of striking 
from the rolls. The ditierence is, in the one cfise the Commission is actu- 
ally taken away; and in the other the Commission is retained, but the 
sting is left to rankle in the feelings of the officer degraded. The arrow 
is with(h'awn in the latter case but the poison remains. Will it not be seen 
that all officers of the army, and every one who might know and contem- 
plate the case, will at once ask, "what was the nature of the case".' 
What caused this strong remedy .' What has this ofl^cer done to warrant 
this high and ultimate power of interposition by the President given to him 
to meet extraoi^dinary events arising in the public service and must l)e aj)- 
plied only "according to the nature of the case.' If then it is admitted 
that he could not, and I am sure he would not do this act wantonly and ca- 
priciously, will the President suffer me to remain under the stigma which 
unavoidably attaches from an oi'der that implies so much? 

It it should be argued, that the President would derive a general justifi- 
cation for the act in the huuhible motive of rewarding a gallant and meri- 
torious officer for services in the field, I should reply, that whilst the bre- 
vet was introduced and applied for the high purposes of distinction to those 
who might deserve them, the law never intended, that by their application 
they should equally degrade those who were not fortunate enough to get 
them. I respect brevets greatly, and am willing to do them just honor 
whenever and wherever I find thcui; Iiut I cannot conceive that whilst I 
award to a deserving officer the high merits which this disfinclion in)plies, 
I must acknowledge at the same moment, that I am in an equal degree hu- 
ndliated and depressed. The law did not intend it so. The. practice has 



[ 1 ] 8 

not been so. But the effect of this order is inevitably of sucli a nature, as 
to humiliate and degrade not actually from command alone, but in the gen- 
eral inferential estimate of my companions in service. This order was given 
whilst I was in command : can there be a doubt but that its effect would 
be just as I state when it was not preceded by one of removal from the 
post? This would have been one of the easiest things in the world, and 
my character in some degree saved. It would even afterwards have been 
remediable, by a rescission of the order in question, before ordering me from 
my post ; but this has not been done, another injury has however still fur- 
ther been done me. I have been ordered to another post, to make room 
for my junior in rank whom I had commanded. The first order still re- 
mains and the imputation remains with all its consequences. I ask the Pre- 
sident confidently, to interpose his just power and authority in his high ca- 
pacity of constitutional commander-in-chief of the army of the United 
States to relieve an officer from an odium which has been imposed without 
cause, and which if permitted to continue must render his commission com- 
paratively valueless. 

With sentiments of the highest respect, 

I have the honor to be your obedient servant, 

THOS. T. FAUNTLEROY, 
Col. First Regiment U. S. Dragoon:^. 
N. B. The attention of the President is respectfully called to a copy of 
the memorial of the officers at Carpus Christi sent to Congress in 1845,. 
which is herewith sent. 



MEMORIAL 

FOR THE THE CONSIDEUxVTION OF THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES .- 

To the President of the Senate : 

Sir : — The undersigned, officers of the United States, feel themselvc^v 
imperatively called upon to present their opinions upon the subject of brevet 
rank, and respectfully ask that the same may be laid before the Senate of 
the United States, in' order that the subject may be properly brought be- 
fore Congress, to the end that a question which has more or less agitated 
the nvmj ever since the war of 1812, may be legally and finally put to 
rest. 

The immediate occasion we now have for presenting this to your attention 
may be seen in a letter from the Head Quarters of the army, under the di- 
rection of the Major General commanding the army, dated "Adjutant Ge- 
neral's office, Washington, November 17, 1845," addressed to brevet Bri- 
gadier General Taylor, and which was printed " as a circular for the infor- 
mation of the arniy," by order of the Major General commanding, on the 
19th of November, 184o. Copies of this letter, it is presumeil, may be 
had at the office of the Adjutant General of the army. The letter appears 
to have been written in reply to certain questions on the subject of brevet 
rank, submitted by brevet Brigadier General Taylor, which seem to have 
been proposed with a view of obtaining the decision of His Excellency the 
President of the United States. The General-in-chief proceeds to say, that 



9 [ 1 ] 

tlie letter of General Taylor was " promptly laid before the Secretary of 
War, for the consideration of the highest in authority ; but that by desire 
of the Secretary of War, (he not having leisure at this time fully to exam- 
ine the question himself, ) the General-in-chief gives the following as his 
own general answers to the queries proposed by General Taylor ; and tlu ii 
follows the answers of the General-in-chief, (see Appendix A.) 

We cannot avoid expressing our regret that the questions submitted bv 
(reneral Taylor, did not reach the " highest in authority," for we are pei- 
suaded that the unprejudiced and uncommitted mind of that high functionarv, 
would have found ample reason to re-afKrm the decisions of his predeces- 
sors in office, and which have been, as we believe, invariably adverse to 
the opinions of Major General Scott. We know that the o})inions of tiie 
late President Adams were of this character, and that a comprehensive and 
remarkably 'luci^l report upon this subject was made by General Porter, 
whilst Secretary of War, under the administration of Mr. Adams, adverse 
to the views of General Scott, which report was printed by order of the Se- 
Jiate or House of Representatives, and may be found among the printed 
documents of Congress about the year 1828. We further know that Pre- 
sident Jackson in a forinal order published to the army in the year 18*2!>, 
decided the question of brevet rank, also adverse to the views of General 
Scott ; the principles of which decision continecl for a time to govern tl:<= 
army, but they have been gradually, step by step, undermined and must 
now be regarded as abrogated, if the principles expfessed in the letter of the 
17th of November, 1845, are to be considered valid. We repeat that w(^ 
deeply regret that the peculiar position of Major General Scott, with re- 
spect to the brevet question, did not restrain him from acceding to the " de- 
sire of the Secretary of War," and prevail with him to withhold from the 
army the expression of his individual opinion, sustained as it is, by the 
weight of his authority and high character, upon this much controverted 
subject, in which he had been thi'ough a great part of his life an interested 
controversialist, which makes it impossible to suppose that his opinions can 
be unbiased, without regarding hiui as possessing a nature elevated above 
that of humanity. W'e believe that in common with the rest of the 
armv, he might well hav'e been willing to trust the decision of the question 
to the constitutional Commander-in-chief of the army, and tliat it would 
have sustained his character for magnanimity, had he carefully and stu- 
diously abstained from forestalling and anticipating the decision of the Ex- 
ecutive. 

It is not our wish, however, to occupy your time by general reflect ior:,s 
upon matters, which, however pertinent in themselves, may be regarded as 
collateral and aside from what we hope to exhibit as a clear argumentative 
view of the brevet question, and will therefore proceed at once to the merits 
of the question itself. 

In all the questions of controversy, where men ai-e divi(k'd in 0])inion, 
there nuist be some point where men separate from a common ground of 
argument ; and on a close examination this will always appear to be among 
conscientious men, either the misunderstanding of sojne fact or the misap- 
])rehension or misapplication of some priiiciph'. We expect to show with 
the utmost clearness, that the real ground of what we regard as the erro- 
neous views of Major General Scott, so far as those views assume the ap- 
[)earance of argument founik'd on law, is the assumption of a wrong princi- 
ple, one of the most erroneous and dangerous that has ever been discu^seii 



[ 1 ] 10 

among men ; a principle which has been warred against by the intelHgenc** 
and liberty of nations since the dawn of modern history ; a principle by 
which King John was brought into conflict with his nobles, which com- 
pelled him so far to relinquish it as to sign the great charter regarded as 
■the foundation of English liberty ; a principle in the struggle to support 
which, Charles I, was brought to the block ; a principle the partial de- 
struction of which deluged France with the blood of her people, and that 
is the principle of the despot, claiming to rule by Divine right, and regard- 
ing itself as possessed of all power, except so far as in early ages it was 
restrained by the blind law of necessity, but which has been in more rec-ent 
times, put under some restraint by laws, emanating from the wisdom an<l 
love of liberty of the people. We find this principle stated in the letter of 
Major General Scott in the following few words, to wit : "All military 
rank, derived from law, must be equally valid, except so far only, as it 
may be restricted by law." 

In these few words we see, indeed, that it is implied that military rank 
must be derived from law, which in this country is certainly true, but we 
see also that it claims for military rank, validity for all purposes, except s« 
far as it may be restricted by law; and this is the despotic principle upon 
which. General Scott's argument rests; thus placing in the foreground a 
■ false principle instead of that true one, congenial to the genius of our go- 
vernment, that all military rank is valid so far, only, as made so by law., 
and not in so far as it is not restricted by law. 

To see the force of this, we appeal to the Constitution of the Unite*! 
States, an instrument by which the people or the States have created, by a 
grant of powers, what we call the general government, the power of which 
is not valid where not restricted, but valid only so far as granted ; all pow- 
ers not granted being expressly reserved to the people or the States ; and 
this principle appertains to every officer, both civil and military, created 
imder the government, not one of whom has or can have, one particle of 
power which is not granted by law. 

General Scott infers upon his principle, that brevet rank is valid to the 
full extent of lineal rank, except so far as it is restricted by the Gist, 63d 
and 98th Articles of War; but why he has confined the extension of it to 
lineal rank he has not explained,- which he should have done, since upon his 
principle, brevet rank must be equally valid in all the staff corps of the 
army, for in the Articles of War there is found no restriction upon brevet 
rank forbidding those who hold it from claiming rank and consideration in 
these staff corps. If this be so, and General Scott's principle be correct, 
there is no reason why not only brevet officers but line officers also, should 
not claim rank and consideration in all or any of the staff corps respec- 
sively ; for even the 63d Article of War does not restrict line officers from 
assuming rank and consideration in the corps of engineers, but restricts the 
engineers fi-om being subject to be ordered on any duty beyond the line of 
their immediate profession, except by special order of the President of the 
United States. What answer can be made to this other than by setting up 
the true principle in opposition to that of General Scott, to wit : that the 
officers of the various corps and departments of the army have such power 
and privileges of rank as are granted to them by law, and not such as those 
wherein they are not restricted by law ; and how can it be pretended that 
brevet rank is exempt from the operation of this principle, or how can the 
assumption be defended that brevet rank is valid for all purposes except 



11 [ 1 ] 

wherein it is restricted by law, instead of regarding it as a creation of statute 
law, and thus looking to the law itself to ascertain its rights and privileges? 
So far then from regarding the Gist Article of War (as General Scott does) 
in a negative light, as restrictive in its principle, it can only be considered 
as positive, and as containing within itself a grant of power and rights to 
brevet rank, and what is not therein, or in some other law, granted to 
brevet rank, it neither has, nor can have, under our free institutions. 

In order to show that the design of Congress, in the creation of brevet 
rank in our service was entirely in accordance with these, to us, clear prin- 
ciples, we have only to look at the history of the service. We shall see 
that Congress reserved to the Senate of the United States the power, and 
made it the duty also of the Senate, to advise and consent to the commis- 
sions of officers of the army, and. this too where oificers attained to rank 
even by regidar succession upon the occiu'rence of vacancies. But they 
did not require during a period of many years this advice and consent of 
tlie Senate in the case of brevet commissions. This peculiarity cannot havi; 
originated in a disposition to clothe the President with powers to grant bie- 
vet commissions at pleasure, with the intention that bi'evet rank should be 
valid, as General Scott supposes, for all purposes except where restricted 
bylaw; and it can only be understood as implying the belief that bievet 
rank is chiefly an honorable distinction, the evidence of gallantry, ability, 
or good conduct, and not possessing powers by which it would come into 
conflict with the advised and consented to conunissions of other officers ex- 
cept under the direct sanction of law, as under the Gist Article of W^ir. 

WHien, however in course of time it appeared, as we suppose, that the 
•distinguishing characteristic of brevet rank was somewhat obscured by the 
too frequent and indiscriminate grant of it f>y the President, the Congi'ess 
of the United States saw fit to require that bievet commissions, in conHuon 
with all others in the army, should I)e submitted to the Senate of the United 
States, and this is now the law of the land. 

It cannot escape observation, that President Jackson and Secretary Por- 
ter, whose opinions have been referred to, had both been distinguished sol- 
diers, and that the former continued for sevei-al years a Major General in 
the army after the close of the war of l!Sl2. President Jackson was inti- 
nuitely acquainted with tlie question of brevet rank, and no less acquainted 
with the feelings of the army upon the whole subject; neither had he ever 
been brought into collision with brevet rank in his own jierson, and must 
thus be supposed to have been in the most desirable condition to form an 
accurate and unbiased opinion \n relation to that rank. That opinion was, 
•as already observed, the very op])osile to tliat now published to the army 
■{>y the Major General commanding, (see Appendix B,) which is a cory ot 
•the order of Prcsitlent Jackson, on the subject of brevet rard-:. It will be 
seen at a glance, that the principal portion of it has been almost literally 
transcribed into the (General Regulations of 1S41 for the army, as may f)e 
seen by a comparison of it with the J Itb, 12th, 13th, Idtli, ]-ltb and JGth 
paragraphs of those regulations, and of which the 11th, 14tli, 1-lth and IGth 
paragraphs are now designated for the information of the army by the Ge- 
neral-in-chief, as "more or less lepugnant to law, and tlierefore so far mill 
and void. 

The possible contingent alternatives to which officers of the army may 
feel themselves reduced by tiiese conflicting opinions and authorities of the 
highest officers of the government, compelling officers on both sides of the 



[ 1 ] 



12 



question to assert their supposed rights at the hazard of their commissions^ 
and if need be their lives, cannot fiiil to be of the most dangerous character, 
" prejudicial to good order and military discipline," if not threatening their 
entire destruction ; and to this allusion, the undersigned would with all so- 
lemnity desire to call the serious attention of Congress, as a point of suffi- 
cient importance in itself to show the necessity for legislation upon this 
subject. 

It is not our design to enter into a minute criticism of the details of the 
letter of the 17th of November, believing it to have been sufficient to have 
shown, as we think we have shown, that its main feature and leading prin- 
ciple, is a false one, wholly alien to the genius of all free governments ; 
that it is a despotic principle with which the reason and intelligence of 
man has been in conflict for ages ; but nevertheles we cannot help advert- 
ing to a remarkable contradiction on the face of the letter, which shows 
how completely the General-in-chief was blinded by his preconceptions and 
determ.ination.'r''. He sets forth that "paragraphs 11, 14, 15 and 16, in the 
General Regulations for the army, (1841,) are all more or less repugnant 
to the law of the land, and therefore to that extent null and void ;" and 
he undertakes to show this, by claiming for officers holding staif and brevet 
rank by virtue of their commissions, positive rights under the Gist and 62(1 
Pvules and Articles of War. ' These rights, as he supposes, they are re- 
stricted in the exercise of, by those paragraphs of the Regulations for the 
army. And yet towards the close of his letter, he says, that "in respect 
to staff oflicers in the presence of seniors, assignment by the common se- 
nior is necessary, because to him it belongs to say whether such ofhcers 
may, without prejudice to staff duties and the rights of others, be assigned 
to the command of troops." In other words, the President of the United 
States cannot in General Scott's view, restrict staff officers in the exercise 
of the rights they hold under the law, but a subordinate covimander on a 
distant station, separated from all immediate appeal to the commander-in- 
chief, may restrict those officers in the exercise of those same rights, and 
may determine when they shall or shall not be assigned to the command 
of troops. 

We cannot close this communication, without remarking, that we fully 
appreciate and believe, we understand the real intention and importance of 
brevet rank, and that the noble emulation it may give rise. to in the army, 
when properly regulated, is of incalculable value. But when not properly 
regulated, when rights and privileges are unlawfully added to the honors of 
that rank, making an unholy conjunction, the rank itself will be sought for 
under the influence of lowered, not to say degraded impulses. Those have 
little knowledge of human nature, who do not perceive, that just so far as 
an unworthy object can be sought for under the cloak of a noble one, the 
means employed in its pursuit, will by a necessary contagion, become 
adapted to the inferior object and take their character from it ; and it is 
from this cause, as we believe, that some few have resorted to means and 
shifts to obtain the advantages of brevet rank, which men of unperverted 
feeling would not deign to use. By these remarks, we trust you will per- 
ceive that we do not aim to destroy brevet rank, but to purify it, by elevating 
it to an honor possessing only lawful privileges, and divesting it of those 
extrinsic advantages that have gathered around it by an unlawful war upon 
the proper rights and privileges of the line of the army. We believe this 
object would be fully attained by a declaratory act of Congress, affirming 



13 L 1 ] 

llrat the rig:hts of brevet rank shall he deemed to he valid, so far only as 
ihey exist by positive grants of law, and no farther; adding that a de- 
tachment is a body of troops sent from the main body to 'perform a par- 
ticular service and to be absent for a limited time. We therefore submit 
lor your consideration, and through you, for the consideration of the Con- 
gress of the United States, the propriety and necessity of passing such a 
dechiratory act. 

It will be perceived that this communication has thus far a special refer- 
ence to the unlawful extension of the rights of brevet rank; but we desire 
to add that, in reg;ii-d to the principles of the letter of the 17lh of No- 
vember, on the su[)ject of the staff, we feel called upon to express our dis- 
sent from the correctness of those principles. We have been accustomed 
for many years to regard what is called rank, in the organization of the 
(Quarter Master's department, as rank in that department, and so also the 
rank of officers in the Commissary and other departments of the army, has 
iteen regarded as rank in those departments respectively; and we are per- 
suaded it was not designed bj Congress to authorize the officers of those 
departments to exercise conunand in the line. The first encroachment l)y 
which the officers of the Quartermaster's department, since its establish- 
ment under present laws, began to consider themselvtvS possessed of the 
right of command in the line, was in 1836, when an officer of that depart- 
ment w^as assigned to the command in the Creek country and subsequently 
in Florida. It was not until several weeks after the arrival of troops at 
ihis place, that an order was received from the Major General command- 
ing the army (see general order No. 44, 1845,) assigning several officers of 
the Quartermaster's department to duty with the army of occupation, con- 
taining a significant paragraph in the following words: "they will be obey- 
ed and respected according to their rank in the army." This order on the 
lace of it implies the promulgation of a new principle in regard to staff 
officers, as if their rank in the army had not hitherto been j)roperly re- 
spected. The principles of the letter of the 17tli November can leave no 
doubt as to the origin and purpose of that clause in the order referred 1o. 
'Che order that tlie officers of tlie Quartermaster's department are to be 
"respected accortling to their rank in the army," is now by tlie letter ol' 
the 17th of Novendier, to be understood as a command that they are to be 
respected according to their rank in [the line of ] the army. The senior 
officer of that department now w-ith us, a Colonel in the staff, might de- 
clare that if his seniors in rank were to leave the iirmy of occupation, he 
would assume the command, and this ])osition w^e have a right to suppose 
would be sustained by the General-in-Chief, notwithstanding the 62(1 Arti- 
cle of War, wdiich requires that the coramantling officer shall have a com- 
mission "of tiie line." 

What then lias become of the distinction between the line and the staff 
recognized in all our laws, those passed during the \\<\r and subsequently? 
(see Cross' law^s, 1838.) It will be seen that where the legislation is for 
the "army of the United States," the act of Congress is so defined as the 
act .June 26, 1812,* in the 5th section of which the lines of artillery, light 
artillery, dragoons, riflemen and infimtry are distinctly named. Someiimes 
the legislation is for "an additional military force," as the act of January 
D, 1813. Again, the legislation is for the " better organization of the 

• Vide, also sec. 12, act Mn — ' "^n. 1814. 



[1] 



14 



general staff of the army" — as the act March 3, 1813, in which there is 
no legislation for the line, the line not being mentioned, except where au- 
thority is given to transfer officers from the line to the staff, as in section 
4, &c. Occasionally we find acts of Congress for particular branches of 
the staff, as that of'the 2d August, 1812, and that of February 8, 1815. 
'J'he act of April 14, 1818, like that of March 3, 1813, is for "'regulating 
the staff of the army;" and this act is immediately followed in Cross' laws, 
by the act of April 16, 1818, for " regulating the pay and emoluments of 
brevet officers," which act is exclusively confined to that distinct class of 
officers. 

A few years ago, and down to about the 17th of Noveml)er last, the ex- 
pressions lineal rank, staff rank and brevet rank, had each a distinct if not 
a delinite meaning, and it would have been as irrational to undertake to 
prove that a man is a man, or a horse a horse, as to attempt to prove that 
lineal rank was one thing, staff rank another, and brevet rank still another ;; 
but by the new principles just now communicated by the General-in-chief,. 
" for the information of the army," those old distinctions are all broken up.. 
Brevet rank now means lineal rank, and staff rank is par excellence lineal 
rank, while lineal rank is neither staff rank nor brevet rank.. Whether it 
is wise to reo;ard the line of the army (we use the expression in its old and 
familiar sense,) as a mere convenience for the staff" corps or not, must l>e 
decided by the government of the country. Officers of the staff, by the 
late order and by the letter of the 17th November, may exercise command 
in the line, but in their own departments can elevate themselves, and say 
to the line, "stand aside, we are better than thou; we can exercise com- 
mand in your branch of the service, but you must not presume to give an 
order in ours." How many years it will require under the operation of these 
principles, to break down the line of the army, will be estimated differently 
according to men's sensibility to honor ; but the most dull and stupid must 
see that the usual order of military organization is now to be I'eversed and 
the line of the army converted into an appendage to the staff. The wis- 
dom of Congress might well consider the probable effect of this state of 
thinos upon the efficiency and character of the army, and by timely legis- 
lation provide against a consummation of evil in store for the country, un- 
der existing pretensions, orders and the letter of the 17th of November. 
The Major General commanding, has in that letter, but just now announced 
the discovery, that the 11th, 14th, 15th and 16th paragraphs of the Gene- 
ral Regulations for the army, published by authority of the President of 
the United States, are more or less in conflict with law, and so far " null 
and void." Jf the General-in-chief is thus forward to declare to the army 
that the regulations of the President, the constitutional Connnander-in-chief 
of the army, are null and void, he ought not to be surprised if he should 
find among his subordinates in the army, not a few who might be both able 
and willing to emulate his example and' improve under his instructions, until 
his own orders and letters may be pronounced illegal, null and void. 

To guard against this extremity \ve would respectfully suggest that the 
provisions of the 63d Article of War, omiffino; [he first paragraph, might 
ix! extended beyond the Engineers so as to include the other staff corj\s 
and departments of the array ; as the undersigned cannot entertain a doubt 
was the intention of Congress in the organization of those corps and de- 
|>artments. 

We would in conclusion declare, one and all there has been no " meeting 



1^5 [ 1 1 

for discussion" on the subject embraced in this communication, and neces~ 
sarily no opportunity for arranging the details or the manner of presenting 
it, so as to guard against the possibility of passages that might seem to be 
exceptionable; and we therei'ore desire it to be distinctly understood, that 
we disclaim all intention of personality in affixing our signatures to this 
communication;, and we emphatically declare that our oidy object is to 
[iresent the sul)ject in such form, as to awaken attention in the great de- 
lilHM-ative and legislative body of the nation, who have the power and we 
trust will see the necessity of legislating out of existence the causes of the 
present discontent in the army, which we are assured is on the increase and 
rapidly tending to disorganization. 

All of which is respectfully submitted. 

Corpus Ciiristi, December V2tJi, 1845. 

D. E. Twiggs, Colonel 2d dragoons. 

J. B. Thornton, Captain 2d(lragoons. 

C. A. May, Captain 2d dragoons. 

W, J. Hardee, Caj)tain 2(1 dragoons. 

ir. H. Sibley, Adjutant 2d dragoons. 

A. LowRY, 1st Lieutenant 2d dragoons-- 

Lewis Neill, 2d Lieutenant 2(1 dragoons. 

George T. Mason, 2d Lieutenant 2d dragoons. 

Crogiian Ker, Captrain 2(1 dragoons. 

Delos B. Sackett, brevet 2d lieutenant 2d dragoons 

O. F. WiNSHip, 1st Lieutenant 2d dragoons. 

F. Hamilton, 1st Lieutenant 2d dragoons. 

James S. Woods, brevet 2d Lieutenant 2d dragoons.. 

Randolph Ridgely, 1st Lieutenant 3d artillery. 

J. P. M'CowN, 1st Lieutenant 4th Artillery.. " 

C. F. Smith, Captain 2d Artillery. 

R. C. Smead, Captain 4th Artillery. 

R. A. LuTiiER, 1st Lieutenant 2(1 Artillery. 

J. S. Hatheway, 1st Lieutenant 1st artillery.. 

C. R. Daniels, 1st Lieutenant 2tl artillery. 

Seth Williams, 2d Lieutenant 1st artillery. 

J. Bankhead Magruder, 1st Lieutenant 1st artillery, 

R. B. ScHivEN, Captain 8th infantry. 

jl. S. Gannet, 2(1 Lieutenant 4th iniantry. 

M. Knowlton, Jst Lieutenant 1st artillery. 

W. Sydney Smith, 2(1 Lieutenant 1st artillery. 

Thomas J. Curd, l)revet 2d Lieutenant Lst artillery. 

H. F. Clark, brevet 2(1 Lieutenant 2d artillery. 

A. A. Gibson, 2d Lieutenant 2d artillery. 

(tiarles G. Merchant, brevet 2(1 Lieutenant 8th infantry. 

Edward Deas, 1st Lieutenant 4th ailillerv. 

A. B. Lanstn(;, 2(1 Lieutenant 2(1 ailillery. 

W. 11. Fowler, 1st Lieutenant 1st artillery. 

William Gilham, 1st Lieutenant 3(1 artillery. 

J. J. Reynolds, l)revet 2d Lieutenant artillery. 

S. Mackenzie, Captain 2(1 artillery. 

John B. Scott, Ca])tain 4th artillery. 



[ 1 ] 16 

Henry M. Whiting, 2d Lieutenant 4lli artillery. 

D. H. Hill, 2d Lieutenant 4th artillery- 

Thomas W. Weld, brevet 2d Lieutenant 1st artillery. 

William Whistler, Colonel 4th infontry. 

John Garland, Lieutenant Colonel 4th infantry. 

George W. Allen, Captain and brevet Major 4th infantry. 

John Page, Captain 4th infantry. 

PiTCAiRN Morrison, Captain 4th infantry. 

T. H. Porter, 2d Lieutenant 4th infantry. 

C. Hoskins, 1st Lieutenant and Adjutant 4th infantry^ 

IL E. Cochrane, 1st Lieutenant 4th infantry. 

Jenks Beaman, 2d Lieutenant 4th infantry. 

11. H. Graham, 1st Lieutenant 4th intantry. 

Sidney Smith, 2d Lieutenant 4th infantry. 

Robert C. Buchanan, Captain 4th infantry. 

P. A. Farrally, brevet 2d lieutenant 4th infjintry. 

John A. Richey, brevet 2d Lieutenant 4th infantry. 

George N. M'Call, Captain 4th infantry. 

G. O. Haller, 2d Lieutenant 4th infantry. 

C. H. Larnard, Captain 4th infantry. 

S. D. Dobbins, 1st Lieutenant 3d infantry. 
George Sykes, 2d Lieutenant 3d infantry. 

E. B. Halloway, 2d Lieutenant 8th infantry. 
Alexander Hays, Brevet 2d Lieutenant 4th infantry- 
H. Ridgley, 2d Lieutenant 4th infantry. 

James M. Smith, 1st Lieutenant 3d infantry. 
Henry' Bainbridge, Captain 3d infantry. 
William S. Henry, 1st Lieutanant 3d infantry. 
L. S. Craig, 1st Lieutenant 3d infimtry. 
J. Van Horne, 1st Lieutenant 3d infantry. 
P. N Barbour, brevet Captain 3d infantry. 

D. S. Irwin, brevet Is't Lieutenant and Adj. General 3d infantry, 
A. J. Williamson, 2d Lieutenant 3d infantry. 

W. T. H. Brooks, 2d Lieutenant 3d infantry. 

J. J. C. Bibb, Brevet 2d Lieutenant 3d infantry.. 

Robert Hazlitt, 2d Lieutenant 3d infantry. 

George C. M'Clellan, Brevet 2d Lieutenant 3d infantry. 

D. C. Buell, 2d Lieutenant 3d infantry. 

Barnard E. Bee, Brevet 2d Lieutenant 3d infantry. 

George P. Field, Captain 3d inflintry. 

D. T. Chandler, 1st Lieutenant 3d infantry. 

John Munroe, Captain and Brevet Major 4th artillery. 

John F. Reynolds, 2d Lieutenant 3d artillery. 

James Duncan, 1st Lieutenant 2d artillery. 

J. F. Roland, 1st Lieutenant 2d artillery. 

J. P. Johnstone, Brevet 2d Lieutenant artillery. 

Braxton Bragg, 1st Lieutenant 3d artillery. 

J. F. Irous, 2d Lieutenant 1st artillery. 

John J. Peck, Brevet 2d Lieutenant 2d artillery. 

W. Hays, 2d Lieutenant 2d Artillery. 

J. C. Pemberton, 1st Lieutenant 4th artillery. 



IC [; 1^ ]! 



George II. Thomas, Ist Lieutenant o;l artillery.- 

Arnold Elezy, 1st Lieutenant -2(1 arlillery. 

.1. S. M'lxrosii, Lieutenant Colonel ■^llh inl'anlry. 

F. Stanmeord, Major Gth infautry. 

Martin Scott, Captain -Ith inlantiy.- 

M. E. Merril, Captain oth inl'antry.- 

E. K. wSmitii, Captain -Ith infantry. 
A. S. IIooE, Captain Olli infantry. 
,J. LvNDE, Captain Otli infantry. 

.1. L. 'J'lioMPSox, Captain 0th iiu'lmtry. 

C. C. Sibley, Captain '5th infantry. 

Will. Chapman, Captain •^"'•th inliuitry. 

A. Drane, Captaiaoth infantry. 

Daniel Rugirles, .1st Lieutenant otli itifantry. 

J. H. Whipple, 1st Lieutenant ^"Jth infanti-y. 

Wm. Root, 1st Lieutenant oth intantiy. 

C. S. Stephenson, 1st Lieutenant oth infantry. 

N. ]}. llossELL, 1st Lieutenant oth infinlry. 

•L A. Wihtiiall, 1st Lieutenant -Jtli infantry. 

George Deas, Adjutant -Jtli inl'antry. 

S. II. Fowler, '2d Lieutenat -Itii infantry. 

Robert L. Brooke,, 2(1 Lieutenant -Ith inl'antry. 

Spencer NorveLl, 2(1 Lieutenivnt, -3lh iniantry. 

.loiiN C. Robinson, 2(1 Lieutenant oth infantry. 

]L Whiting, 2d Lieutenant Oth infantry. 

PjNKNEY Sugenbull, 2d LieuteiKiut -Ith infantry. 

M. Rosecratnts, 2d Lieutenant -"^th infantry. 

J. Smith, Brevet 2d Lieutenant 0th infmtry. 

F. G. Pitcher, Brevet 2d Lieutenant otli iiifantry 
Jacob Brown, Major 7th infmtry. 

Fj. S. Hawkins, Captain 7th infantry. - 
Francis Lee, Captain 7th infantry. 
j). S. ]MiLE-^, Captain 7th infantry,- 
S,-W. Moore, Captain 7th infanti'y. 
II. C. Gatlin, Captain 7th infantry. 
T. 11. Holmes, Captain 7th infaniry. 
R. il. Ross, Captain 7th infantry. 
N. llop.soN, 1st Lieutenant 7th iiuifantry.- 
.L R. Scott, 1st Lieut(Miant 7ih inl'antry.- 
F. N. Page, Adjutant 7th infantry. 
I'\ (i ARDiNER, 2d Lieutenant 7th infantry. 
W. [i. Wood, Brevet 2(1 Lieutenant 7ili infant i-y. 
C. Fi. KiLBURN, 2d Lieutenant od ai'tillery. 
S. K. Dawson, 2d Lieutep.ant 1st artillery. 
i). P. W'iirriN.;, Caj)i:!in 7th ini'.mli-y. 
A. CiozEP, I'revet 2d Lieutenant 7t:i infantry. 
.!. II. ]-'oTr!-:!i 2d Lieutenant 7th infantry. 
C. II. If UMBER, 1st Lieutenant 7th inl'antry. 
L. (iANTT, 2d Lieutenant 7th infanti-y. 
Thomas .Iordan, 2d Lieutenant od infantry. 
Edmuni:) BiiAni-'oiii), 1st Lieutenant Ith artillei-y. 
S. Ci. French, IJrevet 2d Lieulvn;int ailillery. 
Ex.-2 



[ 1 ] 18 

W. II. SiioRER, 1st Lieutenant, od artillery. 

A. Doui5LEDAY, 2d Lieutenant 1st artillery. 

L. N. Morris, Captain 3(1 infantry. 

J. C. M'Ferran, Brevet 2(1 Lieuterant 3d infimtry. 

E. A. Hitchcock, Lieutenant Colonel 3d infantry. 

M. M. Payne, Lieutenant Colonel, 4tli artillery. 

Jl. M'Kavert, Captain Hth infantry. 

.1. V. BoMFORD, Captain 8tli infantry. 

Iv. P. Maclay, 2d Lieutenant bth infantry. 

T. L. Ciiadbourn, 2d Lieutenant Sth infantry. 

Henry M. Judah, Brevet 2(1 Lieutenant Sth infantry 

George Lincoln, 1st Lieutenant Sth infantry. 

.J. Selden, 1st Lieutenant Sth infantry. 

A. L. SiiEPPARD, Ist Lieutenant Sth infantry. 



ADBEJ^DUM. 

In order to put the question of the complete separation of the quarter- 
master's department from the line, heyond a doubt, so far as their eonuuis- 
sions in that department are valid, reference must be had to the iith section 
of the act of July 0, iSoS, which is in the following words : " And he it fur- 
" iher enacted, That the President of the United Mates be, and he is hertl)y 
" authorized by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to add to 
" the quartermasters department, not exceeding two assistant quartennas- 
" ter's general, with the rank of Colonel ; two deputy quartermaster's 
*'■ general with the rank of I^ieutenant Colonel, and eight assistant quarter- 
" masters with the rank of Captain; that the assistant quartermasters now 
"in service, shall have the same rank as is provided by this act for those 
" hereby authorized ; and that the pay and emoluments of the officers of 
"the quartermaster's department, shall be the same as are allowed to offi- 
" (;ers of similar rank in the regiments of dragoons; Provided, That all ap- 
" pointments in the quartermaster's department shall be made from the 
" army, and when oflicers taken for such appointments hold rank in the 
" line, they shall thereupon relinquish said rank and be separated from the 
"line of the army ; and that promotion hi said department shall take place 
" as in regiments and corps." 

This section was qualified, so far as relates to Captains, \)j the third 
clause of the sup])lementary act of July 7, ISoS, in the following words : 
" That so much of said act as requires assistant quartermasters to be sepa- 
" rated from the line, shall be, and the same is hereby repealed." 

By this clause in the supplementary act. Captains who may be appointed 
in the quartermaster's department, under the authority of the 9th section 
of the act of July 5, 1S3S, are permitted to retain their previous commis- 
sions in the line, but the supplementary act does not extend the same privi- 
lege to the other officers (the Colonels and Lieutenant Colonels,^ appointed 
uniler tlie same section of the act of July O, and therefore, this being in full 
force with respect to them, they are re(iuired to be taken from the army, 
and if taken from the line of the army, (thus distinguishing the line from 
the stair corps and departments,) they are required to " relinquisii" tb.e 
"rank" in, and be '■' separated frcm the line of the army.'" Be the line, 



19 [ t ] 

tluMTforc wliat it may, the Colonels and Lieutenant Colonels of" (lie (juar- 
leruiaster's department are absolutely, and without ()ualilication, scparatid 
from it, for this is the very language of the law itself. And furthei', witli 
respeet to their rank, as if to guard against the possibility of miseonstiue- 
tion, the Colonels of the department are deelared by the 9th section above 
(|Uoted to have, not the rank, pay and emoluments of Colonels of (h'agoons, 
but to have the rank of Colonel, (in the (|aartermaster's (h'partment of 
course,) and in another part of the section it is jMoviih-d that they shall 
have the pay and emoluments of officers of similar rank in the icgiments 
of dragoons ; thus with the most pointed care, sejiarating the rank from 
the pay of the (h-agoons, and it is the same with the Lieutenant Colonels 
of the departnient. 

On no pretence whatever, therefore, can these officers of the qnarter- 
master's department !)e assigned to command in the line by a "connnoii 
senior," as General Scott supposes, and still less in the absence of a senior, 
can these officers decide themselves whether they may or may not, " with- 
out ])rejudice to staff duties and the rights of others," assume the " com- 
mand of troops" for this question is decided absolutely, by the ():2d Article 
of War, against them, 

CoKPLis Christi, December 12, 184o, 



JPPEJYDIX A, 

MAJOR GENERAL SCOTt's LETTER ON BREVET AND STAFF RANK. 

Head Quarters of the Armv, 

Jldjutant GeneraVs Office, 

Washington, November 17, 1845. 

Brevet Brigadier General Taylor, 

Sir : — In reference to your letter of the 10th October, 184o, on the 
subject of brevet rank, I am directed by the General-in-Chief to say, that 
he promptly laid it before the Secretary of War for the consideration of 
the highest in authority. In the meantime, and by the desire of the Sec- 
retary of War, (he not having leisure at this time fally to examine the 
(|uestion himself,) the General-in-Chief gives the following as his own gen- 
eral answers to the queries you have presented : — 

"Paragraphs 11,14,15 and 16, in the "General Regidations for the 
Army," are all, more or less, repugnant to the law of the land, and there- 
fore to that extent, null and void. See the Gist and 6:2(1 of the Rules and 
Articles of War, and also, 'the custom of war in like cases' — a rule of 
construction given by Congress in the 69th of the same articles. 

"But it is farther held, that the repugnant paragraphs in question, were 
subsequently rescinded by the heading; to the General List in each annual 
official Army Register since 1841. See that of the present year, page 28. 
That headin.(r first inserted in the Register of 1842, was the well consi- 
dered act of the Executive. By it, and the General List, the rank^ pre- 
cedence and command of every commissioned officer in tlie army down to 
captains inclusive, 'whether by brevet, former commissions, or otherwise,' 
will be found to have been settled, annually, since li^41. 

"Any military rank (giving the command of troops) which enables an 



[ 1 ] 20 

ofTicor to join in mixed tluty witli an officer or officers of any other perma- 
nently established corps (as a regiment, a corp of engineers, or the marine 
corps) is for that precise reason, ' rank of the line of the army,' in the hni- 
gauge of the (32d Article of AVar, as well as in accordance with the ex- 
})ress terms of the (31st (first part) and the heading of the General List in 
the Army Register. Hence brevet and former commissions, as well as mi- 
litia commissions (on mixed duty,)gives rank in the line of the army. 

"■ All military rank, derived from law, must he equally valid except so 
far only as it may be restricted by law, the only legal restrictions on mili- 
tary rank, known in the United States, are to be found in the Gist, G3d anil 
DSth Articles .of War. In the 61st, brevet and former commissions are re- 
stricted in an officer's own unmixed corps, and hut for the 98th, any se- 
nior militia officer wotikl, on mixed service, command •all junior regular offi- 
cers of the same grade, ' whether "by brevet, former commissions, or other- 
wise.' No farther restrictions can be imposed except by the same autho- 
rity — the Congress of the United States. 

" The exception at the endof the 62d artick, 'unless otherwise specially 
directed by the President of the United States, according to the nature of 
the case,' evidently does not contemplate that a junior officer should ever 
be placed over a senior,; but only that a senior officer may be prohibited 
from interfering with some special command of a junior. The Military 
Academy is an instance ; that, although under the rules and articles of 
war, is by a valid regulation, carved out of a military department, a divi- 
sion and a general command ofthe aimy. 

" President Madison decided, in General Orders of July 1, 1816, that 
' regivients and corps, as used in the 61st article of the rules and articles 
of war [are] synonymous terms,' that is, both are permanently ' established 
corps' according to General Washington in the case of brevet Major M'- 
Pherson. — l^Rogem'' .American Biography, p. o25. 

" In General Orders No. 11, of April 1-3, 184-3, (signed by the Secretary 
of W^ar,) a brevet is decided to be as it is called on its face — a commission. 

"If there were a regimental Colonel in the present army of occupation 
in Texas, senior to brevet Brigadier General Taylor's regimental rank, it 
would not change the command of that army unless such Colonel also held 
a senior commission as brevet Briadier General, and this independent of a^- 
signment — a term not more applicable to brevet rank than to any other 
rank. That army is a detachment from the army of the United States, 
and is moreover, composed of dilTerent corps, and what is applicable to the 
whole, is equally applicable to its smaller temporary corps when mixed. 

" The formation of such, whether temporary brigades, battalions or 
smaller detachments (mixed or otherwise) depends on the discretion of the 
commander of the army of occupation, governed by usage, the actual state 
and wants of the service. But when corps become mixed, whether speci- 
ally or by accident, the senior officer in each, whether by brevet, former 
connnission or otherwise, becomes entitled to command from the happening 
of the junction. 

" In respect to staff officers, in the presence of senior's assignment by the 
common senior, is necessary, because to him it belongs, to say, whether 
such officers, may without prejudice to staff duties and the rights of others, 
be assigned to the command of troops. In the absence of a senior a staff 
officer with senior military rank, as above would clearly have the right to 
.jdecide that question himself, 



21 I 1 ] 

In flic hatlalion of cli'Vcii miillcrv companies ( o( ('liircront rpp;Iments,) 
■serving- hi the iiriiiy of ()ccu])ati<)U as int'anlry, shmihl an additional field 
olKicer be deemed necessary with that battalion, l)y the couunander of that 
anny, the second ollieer of the battalion whether such by brevet, or other- 
wise, would be entitled to lie assiifued as Major. 
I am sir, veiy res'pectfully, 

Your obedient servant, 
(Sio-ned) H. JONES, 

Jlajiifant (icncral. 
The loi-egoing letter is prinled as a circular for the informatiou of the 



lariny. 



AnJUTANT GeXRRAt/s Ol'T'IC'K, 

Washington, Nov. JiUli, \^V). 



By order of 

R. JONES, 

jldjntani General. 



APPEJVBJX B. 

Regultil/Dii.^i by command of President Jackson conceDihi'j; Brevet and 

StaJ' Rank. 

Adjutant General's Oi'tice, 
Washington, August loth, 1829. 
Order — No. -'54. 

The following regulation ajiproved by the PresidenT of the United States, 
ihas been received from the War Department and is published for the intor- 
anation and government of all concerned: 

regulation concerning rank and command. 
''1. Brevet rank will gve no command -except on detachments, composed 
•of (hlFerent corps and within the meaning of the Gist Article of War. 

"2. Detachment means a hody of troops sent out from the main body 
to perform a particular service and to be absent for a limited time; when 
such a detachment is composed of ditferent corps brevet rank will take 
•effect in conformity with the ()Lst Article of War. 

"3. Under the" same Article of W'ar, brevet rank will take place on 
Courts Martial when composed of dilfercnt oIHcers of different corps. 

"4. In regularly constilutt'd x onmiands, such as garrisons, posts, de- 
partments, regiments, corps, companies, battalions, brigades, divisions, 
■corps d'armie, or the army itself, bievet rank is not to be I'xercised except 
on special assignment. 

" O. Officers having rank in fhe line of the army, the staff or by brevet, 
though eligible to connnand, will not assume the conuuand, unless specially 
put on duty with that intention. 

"6. An officer entrusted with the command of a post, detachment, guard 
or separate command, will not surrender it to another, imless regularly re- 
lieved from the duty assigned him, excei:)t in the case ot sickness, or ina- 
bility to perform his duty, when the ofFicer next in rank present, and on 
'duty with such command, will succeed as a matter of course. 

"7. An officer not on duty, with, nor belonging to any of the compa- 



[ 1 ] 22 

nies, battalions, regiments or corps, composing a commami cannot assume 
the command. He must first have been put on duty by some competent 
authority to make him a part of the command, before he can assume or ex- 
ercise the command. 

" 8. If different corps happen to join or do duty together, the officer 
highest in rank by his commission in the line of the army })resent on duty, 
has the right to command the whole, and to give orders needful to the ser- 
vice. Brevet officers or officers having brevets or commissions of a prior 
date to those of the regiment in which they serve, cannot by virtue of such 
brevets or commissions of a prior date, assume the command. 
By command of the President, 

(Signed,) J. H. EATON, 

Secretary of War. 
By order of Alexander Macomb, Major General commanding the army. 
(Signed,) R. JONES, 

Adjutartt General. 



29th Congress, [SENATE.] [ 230 ] 

\st Session. 

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES. 



March 18, 184G. 

Submitted and ordered to be printed. 



Mr. Benton made the following report : 
The Committee on Military Affairs, to ivkom was referred the memorial 
of stmdry officers of the army of the United States at Corpus Christi, 
in relation to Staff rank, and Brevet rank, 

REPORT: 

That they have seen an order of the President of the United States, da- 
ted on the i2th day of the present month, re-establishing the regulation of 
August lo, 1829, by President Jackson, in relation to brevet and staff 
rank, and abrogating all subsequent regulations in relation thereto ; and be- 
lieving the said regulation of August 13, 1829, to be a correct exposition 
of the Rules and Articles of War in relation to the subject, and that the 
re-establishment of said regulation has applied the adequate and appropri- 
ate remedy to the evils complained of in the memorial, and has superceded 
the necessity for legislation on the subject, the committee bring back into 
the Senate the memorial committed to them, and pray to be discharged 
from its further consideration. 



Washington, D. C, 
Sunday night, January 19, 1851. 
Mr. Conrad, 

Dear Sir : — With the apprehension of l)eing thought presumptive in 
thus appearing before yon again, I am nevertheless constrained to do so, 
from a sensitive regard for the honor and reputatfon of my father. 



23 [ 1 ] 

With tills ;i]i()loo-y, I hn|-)e and believe you will make dtic allowaiiee for 
tlic liberty which I take in sen<liii<r you the enclosed letter received at a late 
hour to-nioht, tVoni my hrother-in-hnv- 

('onviiiced as I am, that alter a Ihll investigation of the mattci', you will 
find gross injustice, indicted hy the order in ciuestion, upon Col. raiuitle- 
roy. I am e(|u;dly certain that a strict sense of justice will induce you t'_) 
repair the injury ajs speedily as possible. 

Very respectfully, &.c., &r., &c.. 

Your obedient servant, 

C. M. FAUNTLEllOY. 

Hon. ('. M. Con RAO, 

ScLfc'dri/ of War, M'ashiagton. 



Baltimore, January IGth, I'^-ll. 

Df.au CiiAULKs : — I have your note of last evening, and in reply will give 
you the opinion of otheis on the subject of that oi'der. 

I was inlbnned of it by a start" ollicer of some rank (himself a brevet,) 
and much service, who mentioned it as a remarkal)le and irregular paper, 
0[)posed to precedent, usage, and the known law on the subject, and of very 
injurious tendency; and one which he sincerely hoped and believed had not 
the knowh'dge oi' sanction of the Secretary. 

A second oilicer (one of tlie 7th intanti'y) spoke to me of the hardship 
of Col. Plympton's position as second in command at Jeilerson barracks, 
while Lt. Col. Sumner was allowed the command at Leavenwoith, (proper- 
ly the head quarters of the 1st regiment,) but spoke of the assignment ot 
Col. P. to his brevet rank, as an act of oppression, and that it would be so 
viewed by every one cognizant of the circumstances. 

Ln my own opinion il is a most unwarranted personal attack under the 
mask of olliciid aulhoiity upon Col. F. and unequalled in my army expe- 
rience. 1 1 ])laccs Col. F's. reputation at the mercy of his enemies, and 
gives authority for asserting that being unfit for command he was super- 
ceded. 

Under the much arritaled brevet rank system as it is now received and 
understood, this order is illegal, and at variance with the rules of special 
assigmneiit to brevet lank by the President alone. It is injurious in its ac- 
tion, for tlie s.iiue applicallon may ]ilace the captain of a company in com- 
mand ot liis ('oloiicl, or a lieutenant in command ot" his captain. 

Col. Plympton's family should not be a valid reason for iidlicting a se- 
vere oificial disgrace and degi'edation upon Col. Fauntleroy, lor ;;s such be 
will feel it, and as such both his friends and enemies will view it. Finally, 
this is the first move in a new scheme of annoyance to carry out jjersonal 
hostility uiuU'i- cover of ollicial ])ower. Colonel Plvni|)fon \s not a favo- 
rite with the originator of this scheme, but Lt. Col Sumner is. Col. 
I''aiint lei-ov's p-i-opcr [losition is !''ort Leavenworth, but it is not desirable to 
n-move Col. Suianei-. To avoid this, an oincial insult is given to Colonel. 
F;iuntlero\, he will ])i-ot('st and icply to it, in this rejoinder opportunity 
will be sought and found, to place him in the wrong. His .p(isitinn thus 
weakened, the next move will be to oidcr him to Santa Fe, New Mexico, 
or elscwlie;-e, with a Major";": command, leaving Col. Sumner to a!l intents; 



[ 1 ]■ 24 

Jiiul purposes in command of the roiriment. The result of the movement 
j)oints to the ulthuute resignation of Col. F. brought about by oppression, 
the whole blame of which will hereafter be thrown upon the shoulders of 
the Secretary of War, by the very party most actively engaged in the 
work. 

Under existing circumstances there is but one remedy which justice can 
adopt — to rescind the order and restore Col. F. to his rank and command — 
a leave of absence, of change of post, under the action of' this order, 
would but rentUu' the stigma it inflicts indelible. I would state this to the 
Secretary and rely upon his sense of justice to retrieve the error into which, 
he has been decived. 

We heard from mother to-day (.Lanuary 4th^ one hour l>elow- Memphis) 
all doing finely. They left Mr. Conrad's hospitable roof on the 1st Jan. 
and expect to be at St. Louis on the 7th. God grant that they have arrived 
safely and will be with the Colonel to cheer and sustain him under this most 
grievous and. injurious movement. 

Mary desires love, 

Yours verv truly, 

J.M- BARNES.. 

CiiAS. M. Faun-tlekoy,.,,U..S. Navy. 



REMJIRKS 

ON COLONEL FAUNTLEKOV's MEMORIAL ADDIlESSEn TO THE PRESIDENT, 
THROUGH THE SECRETARY OF WAR. 

I-bave not time to read this long paper and its accompanying docunicnts. 
C suppose, .however, the ground of the Colonel's complaint to be this: that 
])eing in command of the post, Jellei-son barracks, as Colonel by orcHnary 
conmiission, the Secretary of War, at my instance assigned brevet Colonel 
Plympton, who is only a regimental Lieutenant Colonel, to (bity then ac- 
cording to his brevet rank, which being senior to the ranlc of Fauntleroy, 
the conunancLof the post passed to Plympton. 

Jefferson barracks is not and never has been a cavalry post. There has 
not in years, been a troop of horse there. 

But in ISf'.J, the post being unoccupied, and the companies of the first 
dragoons scattered from the uj)per Mississi})pi, to California — presenting, at 
no one point a force sufficient to constitute a command for a fiekl officer. I 
sent brevet Brigadier General Mason, then Colonel of the first' dragoons 
with the staff and b.md of the regiment to Jefferson Barracks as a conve- 
nient place of ([iiaitrrs tcisave the expense of having quarters at St. Loui« 
or elsewhere and .the ])osition being as good as an any other for correspontl'- 
ing with the scrittered cunjianies (ov receiving returns from them, &c., &.c. 
And at the time I (fistinctly infoi'med General Mason that if troops were 
ordered lo Jelferson l^arracks, he would liot !)e allowed to conunand thein^ 
unless one or mnr(v companies of dragoons were mixed up with the com- 
mand. This excellent odicer saw a1 once the propriety of that restriction. 

(jencral Mason diied in July fS"){), imd ^vas succeeded as Colonel of the 
first dragoons by Fauntleroy. Soon alter the latter took ]iost at Jefferson 
Barracks six: companies of the 7th. iuiiuitry were orderetl there for the 
winter. . . 



25 [ 1 ] 

On the arrival of the regiment, the [gallant lirevi^t Colonel Plvinpton 
wotild, no (louht, have at once, and of ri;j;ht assumed the command" of tlu^ 
post, under the (3ist and 62(1 Articles of War, but for the repeate<[ attempts 
made at Washington, l)y orders and by regulations to repeal without the 
concurrence of Congress that article — a part of the statute law of the land, 
(see President Jackson's order August 13, 1829,) signed by Mr. Secretary 
Eaton, but which, in fact, as is well known in this building was wiitteii 
hy (jeneral M'Comb against me, and got published without the knowledge 
of the President, (see also paragraphs 1() and 17, page 4, General Regu- 
lations of the Army,) wliere the principles and nearly the words of that 
order are embodied — against the plainest meaning and intent of the Gist 
article. In the present case (Jeiferson Earracks) tliere were three detach- 
ments of different corps temporarily on duty together — 1st, Col. Fauntle- 
roy, his regimental staff and band. 2d, brevet Colonel Plyrapton with six 
companies of the 7th infantry, and 3d, a company of artillery. 

But according to the order of 1S29, copied into the General Regulations 
brevet rank is of no effect without assignment — a term and a restriction 
(by the way) wholly unknown to the law of the land, and Plympton asked 
1o be assigned. The assignment was giv^n by the War Department, and 
why not? Plympton is the older soldier- He served gallantly throughout 
the war of 1812, and he won the brevet of full Colonel in Mexico by dis- 
tinguished conduct again and again, in front of the enemy — where is the 
brevet of Col. Fuuntleroy ? It may be replied that he never had the good 
fortune to be in a position to win a brevet'; true, but is his misfortune ito 
over-ride the good fortune and high merit -combined, of Plympton ? Is not 
brevet rank as much the creation of law and granted under as high solem- 
nities as ordinary rank? If there be any important difference between the 
two, it is in favor of brevets. 

Respectfully submitted 

To the Secretary of War. 

VVlNFIELD SCOTT. 

Head Quarters of the Army, 

Washington, February 11, 1851, 



The letter of Colonel Fauntleroy to the Presid^t'nt, has be#n carefully 
considered, both by him and the Secretary of War, and they corrcur in tlie 
opinion that he has no ground of complaint whatever. 

The right of the President to assign an officer to command according to 
his brevet rank is not disputed. Of the circumstances that may require 
ihe exercise of this power in a particular case, the law constitutes him the 
sole judge, and when an order of that nature has been issued, an officer havS 
no more right to demand the reason that ])rompted him 1o issue it, than he 
lias to demand the reasons for any other order issued by his su[)erior. 
Even were it otherwise, Colonel Fauntleroy might have found in the fact 
stated by the General-in-chief, that no ])ortion of his command was, or 
was likely to be stationed at Jefferson barracks, while nearly the whole of 
Lieutenant Colonel Plympton's regiment was there ; a sufficient reason fur 
assigning the command of that post to the latter. 

It is an error too, to suppose that the effect of that order was to place 
Colonel Fauntleroy under the counnand of his inferior. Such would have 
Ex.— 3 



[ 1 ] 26 

been the case, if the President had, under the 62d Article of War, ordered 
Lieutenant Colonel Piympton to take command without assigning him to 
his brevet rank, but the effect of the assignment was to make him the se- 
nior of Colonel Fauntleroy. 

Exception has been taken to the form of the order because it did not 
purport upon its face to have been issued by the President. 

The order w^as signed by the Secretary of War whose acts in matters 
appertaining to his department, are in contemplation of law the acts of 
the President. (See General Order No. 35, dated October 30th, 1850.) 

It is true, that the Assistant Adjutant General in transmitting the order 
omitted to state that it emanated from the Secretary of War. This was 
a clerical error, which, if it were at all material, that officer would be di- 
rected to correct. But as the officer to w^hom the order was directed has 
not intimated any doubt of its validity, and as Col. Fauntleroy was, by a 
subsequent order, transferred to another post and consequently ceased to 
l»e in any manner affected by it, the correction does not appear to be ne- 
cessary. 

(Signed) C. M. CONRAD, 

Secretary of War. 
W^AR Department, Pebruary 15, 1851 



HAMILTON, r-JBLIC PRINTER.- 



Special Session, [SENATE.] Executive, 

March, I80I. No. 2. 



MESSAGE 



THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, 

COMMUXICATIXG 

In compliance until a imo/ufion of the Senate, of the Sfh instant, corres- 
pondence between the State Department and the United States Minister 
at Constantinople, respecting the liberation of Kossuth and his Com- 
2)anions. 



March 11, 3851. 

ReaJ, and ordered to be printed. 



To the Senate of the United States: 

I transmit, herewith, a report from the Secretary of State, with the ac- 
companying documents, in compliance with the resohition of the Senate, 
of the 8th instant. 



Washington, 10th March, 18-31. 



MILLARD FILLMORE. 



Department of State, 
Washington, 10th March, I80J . 
To the President of the United States: 

The Secretary of State, to v.'hom was referred the resolution of the 
Senate of the 8th instant, requesting the President " to communicate to 
the Senate, if not inconsistent with the puhlic interest, any correspondence 
Avhich has taken place hetween the Department of State, and the Minister 
of the Unileil States at Constantinople, respecting tlie liheration of Kos- 
suth and liis companions," has the honor to lay before the President the 
accompanying copies of papers. 

Respectfully submitted, 

DANIEL WEBSTER. 



LIST OF PAPERS. 

1. Mr. Clayton to Mr. Marsh, 12th January, I80O. 

2. Mr. J. P. Brown to Secretary of State, 5th January, 1850, with 

an inclosure. 

3. Mr. Marsh to Secretary of State, 14th March, 1850. 

4. The same to the same, 25th March, 1850. 



[2] 2 

5. Mr. Marsh to Secretary of State, ISth April, 1850.. 

6. The same to the same, 15th May, 1850. 

7. The same to the same, 19th June, 1850. 

8. The same to the same, 4th July, 1850. 

9. The same to the same, i9th August, 1850. 

10. ]\Ir. Marsh to the same, 15th November, 1850. 

11. Mr. Webster to Mr. Marsh, 25th January, 1851. 
1-2. The same to Mr. J. P. Brown, 22d February, 1851. 

13. Mr. J. P. Brown to Secretary of State, 23(1 February, 1851, 

14. Mr. Webster to Mr. Marsh, 2Sth February, 1851. 



Mr. Clayton to .Mr. Marsh. 

[Copy — No. 3.] Department of State, 

Washington, 12th January 1850. 

George P. Marsh, Esq., Constantinople. 

Sir : — You are well aware that the deepest interest is felt among the 
people of the United States, in the fate of Kossuth and his compatriots of 
Hunp-ary, who have hitherto escaped by seeking an asylum within the 
boundaries of the Ottoman Empire. The accounts respecting them have 
])een so conflicting — sometimes representing them as having escaped, and 
at others as being captive, that we have not known what to credit, and 
have therefore declined to inteifere in their behalf; nor do we now desire 
to interfere, by entangling ourselves in any serious controversy with 
jlussia or Austria. But we cannot suppose that a compliance Avith the 
dictates of humanity, now that the contest with Hungary is over, would 
involve our friendly relations with any other power. Should you be of 
the opinion that our good offices would avail anything to secure their safety, 
it is desired by your government that you should intercede, with the Sultan 
in their behalf. The President would be gratified, if they could find a 
retreat under the American flag, and their safe conveyance to this country, 
by any one of our National ships, which may be about to return home, 
would be hailed with lively satisfaction by the American people. 
I am sir, yours, &c. 
(Signed) JOHN M. CLAYTON. 



[Extract.] 



Mr. Brown to Secretary of Stale. 



Constantinople, January 5, 1850. 

Honored Sir : — I recently received the enclosed letter from Mr. Kos- 
suth, the Ex-govenor of unfortunate Hungary ; and supposing that it might 
be agreeable to you to possess a letter from this illustrious man, I take 
the liberty of enclosing it to you, with a literal translation in English. 

Major Bock has been my guest for some days, and will probably leave 
soon for France and England, on his way to the United States. It is his 
intention to settle near a friend in Texas. He entertains feelings of the 
most devoted kind for Mr. Kossuth, whose patriotism, benevolence, firm- 



3 [2 J 

ness in misfortune, and inseparable devotion to those friends now with 
hini at Chounda, he has frequently mentioned to myself and family in the 
warmest terms. I am sorry to learn from him that, notwithstandinii tlic 
nobleness and generosity of the Sultan, Mr. Kossuth and his friends arc 
far from being comfortably situated at Choumla. Their number is now- 
reduced to some 500 Hungarians and 700 Poles. The Italians, 200 in 
lunnber, are at Gallipoli, (Dardanelles.) Major Bock has also related to 
me the conduct of the Austrian government towards the principal agents 
of the revolution in Hungary, and to those of the refugees at Widin, who. 
confiding in the amnesty offered them by the Austrian general sent theic 
for that purpose, returned into Hungary only to meet with death in tlic 
most ignominious form. * * * * * 

Mr. Kossuth has no knowledge yet of his aged mother, wife, and chil- 
dren. ]t is supposed that the latter are now in Vienna, in a militar\ 
academy, as hostages for the future silence of their father. Few or none 
of the refugees have any other means of subsistence beyond what the Sul- 
tan gives them. The lUissian minister has re-opened official relations Avith 
the Porte, (on the oOth ultimo,) and I hear that the Polish refugees are to 
leave Turkey. The Austrian minister has not yet done so, anti the fati- 
of the Hungarians is unsettled. It is understoocl that Mr. Kossuth is in- 
vited to go to England in case of his being able to leave this country. 
* ***** # # 

I have the honor to be, sir, with much respect. 

Your very obedient servant, 

J. P. BROWN. 



Louis Kossuth to the American Minister resident at Constantinople. 

[ Translation. ] 

Choumla, December 13, 1849. 

Mr. Ambassador: — It is with the most profound sentiment of gratitufh' 
that I have learned the noble sympathy with which your excellency, as a 
worthy representative of a truly magnanimous nation, honors my own dis- 
aster and that of my country. Whilst I make use of this occasion to ex- 
press to your excellency my entire gratitude and my highest considera- 
tion, I take leave also to I'ecommend to your benevolence Major Bock, 
one of my aids-de-camp and secretaries. He is about to return to his own 
country in consequence of a reclamation on the part of the ambassador of 
Prussia, but will remain some time at Constantinople for the purpose of 
arranging some of my affairs. I hope that, with a man of your char- 
acter, this recommendation will not lose in value, because it comes irom 
a man who, perhaps, amongst all living ones, was the most persecuted by 
inisfortTme. But this misfortune has given me the consolation that I found 
in it noble friends and faithful adherents, and the Major l^xdc is among 
tlu! most faithful. 

Accept, Mr. Ambassador, the expression of my highest consideration. 

LOUIS KOSSUTH, 

Ex-governor of Hungary. 
To the Ambassador 

0/ the. United States of Korth America, Constantinople.' 



[2] 4 

J\Ir. Marsh to the Secretary of State. 

[Extract. — No. 3.] 

Legation of the United States, 

Constantinople, March 14, 1850. 

e: # * * * * * * 

By the Marseilles mail steamer, which arrived on the same clay as the 
Mississippi, [23d February last,] I received the President's instructions 
of the 12 th of January; and as, in the opinion of the most intelligent 
friends of the Hungarian refugees at Broussa, it was not improbable that 
Kossuth and his companions might be allowed to take passage for America, 
in compliance with the request of the President, or at least suffered to 
escape, I deemed it my duty to request Captain Long to detain the Missis- 
sippi at Constantinople, until I could address a note to the Porte (which 
could only be done after my audience of reception) and obtain a reply, 
and I accordingly communicated to that officer the substance of my in- 
structions, and desired him to remain a reasonable time for that purpose. 
I trust his compliance with my request Avill not be thought an unwarrant- 
able infraction of the orders of Commodore Morgan, by v^^hich he was di- 
rected to return to Naples as early as the 15th of March. 

In the mean time Mr. Brown had, by my directions, informally appiizeil 
the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the nature of my instructions, in order 
that the Porte might be prepared to give an early answer when the Pre- 
sident's wishes should be formally communicated, and immediately after 
my reception, 1 addressed the following note, under date of March 11th, 
to the Minister of Foreign Affairs: 

" The President of the United Slates of America, participating in the 
})hi]anthropic sentiments by which his Imperial Majesty the Sultan has 
been actuated in his noble and generous treatment of the Hungarian refu- 
gees, has instructed the undersigned, Minister resident of the United 
States, to intercede with his Majesty in their behalf, and to offer them, 
throuo'h his Majesty, a secure asylum in the United States, together with 
a free passage to America by any American public ship which may be 
about to return home. 

" The undersigned is happy to make this office of humanity the subject 
of his first official communication to the Sublime Porte, and seizes the 
earliest moment after his audience of reception to fulfil his instructions, by 
formally requesting, in the name of the American government and people, 
that Kossuth, late chief executive officer of Hungary, and his companions, 
at present detained by the Turkish authorities at Jh'oussa, may be permit- 
ted to take jnissage for the United States on board an American vessel of 
war now in the Mediterranean, and about to sail for home. The under- 
signed has also the honor to tender the services of the United States 
steamer Mississippi, now at Constantinople, for the purpose of conveying 
the refugees to the vessel in question. 

" The President conceives that, now that the contest between Hungary 
and Austria is over, there can, upon the general principles of interna- 
tional law, exist no valid objection from any quarter to the emigration ot 
these persons to a country so distant from the scene of the late contest as 
the United States; and while the undersigned does not assume to deter- 
mine the extent of the obligations of Turkey to European powers, in 
virtue of treaty stipulations or other solemn engagements, he begs leave 



5 [2] 

to express the hope that the generous purpose of the Sultati, In magnani- 
mously sheltering these fugitives against their pursuers, may find full ac- 
complishment in their restoration to entire freedom, and that the United 
States may he permitted to share in the glory, which the salvation of these 
distinguished patriots, will confer upon all who shall have contributed to 
etfectan object so important to the common interests of humanity. 

"The undersigned avails himself of this occasion to olfcr to his Excel- 
lency the Minister of Foriegn Alfairs, the assurance of his most distin- 
guished consideration." 

I am aware that my instructions of Jr.nuary 12, IS-IO, do not in terms. 
direct mo to make an oiler of the services of a public ship Ibr the convey- 
ance of the Hungarian refugees to America, but as the Jamestown is un- 
derstood to he about to return to the United States, and as Ca})tain Long 
was of opinion that the Mississippi might be detained hei-e a few days 
without inconvenience to the service, for the purpose of transporling them 
to Genoa, I thought the offer fully authorized by the letter as well as the 
spirit of those instructions. 

The Minister of Foreign Affairs promises a reply to my note on Satur- 
day next ; but as the Marseilles steamer, by which I transnut this des- 
patch, sails on Friday, I shall not he able to comnumicate his answer until 
the mail of the 19th instant. I have no doubt that the Porte is sincerel} 
desirous of acceding to the President's wishes, l)ut I fear the influence ot 
Russia and Austria upon this qvrestion is too strong to be overcome. The 
Sultan has unfortunately emharrassed himself hy offering to detain the 
refugees in the interior for a year; and though this proposal was rejected 
l)y Austria, which insisted on a much longer term of interncment, it is 
helieved that the Sultan feels himself not entirely released from liis ob- 
ligations. At present Kossuth, Eatthiany, -and about thirty other Hun- 
garians, are under restraint at Broussa, and if our proposal is declined, 
they will probably be removed to Kutaya, eighty miles further inland. 

The refugees have — h)it, as I helieve, without any good reason — liecome 
jealous and distrustful of the Porte, and complained much of the treatment 
they receive at the hands of the officers to whose custody they are com- 
mitted. I can readily imagine that they may not always have been treated 
with due consideration; but it must be remend)ered that the maintenanc(! 
of so large a number of foreigners, (originally more than four thousaitd, 
and now about twelve hundred,) is a heavy charge upon the Turkish 
government, and that in a country so destitute as Turkey of most of the 
conveniences and comforts which habit has miule necessary to Europeans 
it is absolutely impracticable to provide them with the means of ease and 
enjoyment to which they had been before accustomed. 

I am fully persuaded that the Sultan, and the great officers of his couit, 
liavc been throughout actuated by the most generous and philanthrof ic 
motives, and that the refugees have been treated wuth every practicable 
indulgence that the well-grounded fears which the Turks entertain of 
Austrian resentment would allow. * * * * * 

I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servr.nt, 

GEORGE P, MARSH, 

Hon. Joiix M. Claytox, 

Secretary of State. 



[2] 6 

Mi\ Marsh to the Secretary of State. 

[Extract.— No. 4.] 

Legatiow of the United States', 
Constantinophf March 25, 1850. 
Sir: On Tuesday, the 19th instant, I I'eceived frOtn the Department of 
Foreign Affairs, of the Porte a reply to my note of March 11, (a copy of 
which was communicated to you in my despatch No, 3, dated March lly 
I ^-30,) whereof the following is a translation ; 

" Department of Foreign Af^fa/ks op the Sublime Porte, 

"I have had the honor to receive your communication dated the 11th 
of March, A. C. 1850, in which you represent, that in case the Sublime 
l^orte approves of the sending of the Hungarians to America, a vessel of 
your government, appointed for that purpose, will convey them thither. 
The Sublime Porte certainly will off"er no obstacle or difficulty to the de- 
parture, to whatever place they please, of such of the Hungarians as are 
not implicated, nor is there any objection to those Hungarians and Poles 
whose names are not registered in the list given to the Sublime Porte by 
the Austrian government, or Who are not otherwise implicated, profiting 
by the hospitality thus offered on the part of the United States of America. 

"Yet, in consequence of the off"er spontaneously made by the Sublime 
Porte, it bound itself to keep in the Ottoman dominions, under certain 
conditions which it is now endeavoring to arrano;e, those of the chiefs of 
said people whose names are entered on that list,' and in the view of acting 
with sincerity and probity in its intercourse and relations Avith other friendly 
governments, and maintaining its given word, it is obligatory on the part 
of his Imperial Majesty the Sultan, to execute that offer. 

"Under these circumstance the Ottoman government deems itself com- 
))elled to decline permitting said chiefs to proceed to America. 

"I avail myself of the pres'ent occasion to offer you assurances of my 
highest respect and most distinguished consideration. 

[seal.] "EL SAID MEHEMED EMIR AALI, 

"Minister of Foreign Ajjairs. 

"Jemagiel Gimel 5, 12m:'— {March 18, 1850.] 

I learn that the substance of my note was communicated to the Aus- 
trian and Russian ministers at Constantinople, and that they were urged 
by the Porte to consent to the emigration of the Hungarian refugees to 
America, but without eff"ect. I am happy to add, that I have reason to 
believe that Baron Tecco, the highly respectable minister of the King of 
Sardinia at Constantinople, supported our application with great zeal ; and 
I suppose, also, that the British aml)assador threw his influence into the 
sauie scale. * * * * * 

I am now by no means without hope that Kossuth and his friends will 
be speedily released, unless Austria unconditionally accepts the Sultan's 
offer of a detention for a single year, which there is little reason to sup- 
jiose she will (b). 

The precise terms of the Sultan's offer to the Emperor of Austria are 
not known, but it is understood to liave been to the effect that he would 
<b^tain for a year, in Asia Minor, a certain number of the refugees, to be 
selected by Austria within a given period. Although the offer was not 



7 [ 2 ] 

accepted as to the time, Austria immediately indicated tlie names of 
Kossuth and about thirty others, who were forthwith sent to Broussa, and 
the residue, about 1,200 in number, are still at ChoH.im]a, where they 

will be kept until the selection is completed, and then probably releasecl. 

* * * * * * * * * 

I have the honor to be, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant, 

GEORGE P. MARSH. 
Hon. John M. Clayton, 

Secretary of State. 



[Copy.] Mr. Marsh to Secretary of State. 

[Extract. — No. o.] 

Legation of the United States of America. 

Condantinople, 18th April, 18-30. 
To Hon. J. ]\I. Clayton, 

Sir:: — Since the date of my last despatch (No. 4,) the Austi-ian govern- 
ment has notified the Porte of its acceptance of the terms of inteniement of 
the Hungarian refugees offered by the Sultan, and the diplomatic relations 
between Austria and the Porte have been formally resumed. The re- 
fugees who were lately at Broussa have been removed to Kutayah, and it, 
is understood that on the expiration of a year from the date of the Sultan's 
offer, (which was early last autumn,) they will be released and allowed to 
proceed to England or America, as they may desire. The other refugees 
are still in the interior, and about one hundred of them have expressed a 
desire to emigrate to the United States, and have applied to me to furnish 
them with the means of transportation to America, and of subsistance in 
the mean time. I could, of course, contract no engagements of this sort, 
and did not feel at liberty to hold out to them encouragement or aid of any 
description Irom the American government." 



[Copy.] Mr. Marsh to Secretary of State. 

[Extract.~No. (3.] 

Legation of the United States, 
Constantinople, 15th May, 1850. 
Hon. John M. Clayton, Secretary of State. 

iR : •■■ * ■'■■ * -^ * 

'■ I am aware that the Executive government can do little for these per- 
sons without the authority of Congress, but I'or llic sake of liunianity, as 
well as the i-ej)ufation for generosity which our s\nipathy with starving 
Ireland and oj)pressed Hungary has gained us in Europe, it is niosr 
earnestly to be desired that this Legation may be empowered to do some- 
thing to realise the hopes which the suffering refugees still cherish, of 
effectual aid from the American people." 



[ 2 ] 8 

[Copy.] Mr. Marsh to Secretary of State. 

[Extract. — No. 9.] 

Legation of the United States of America, 

Constantinople, 19th June, 1850. 
Hon. John M. Clayton, Secretary of State. 

Sjj^ . * * * * * 

"At the request of Governor Kossuth I asked leave for the refugees t* 
enter the military service of Servia. To 'this the Minister replied', that 
the Porte must ultimately be responsible for the conduct of the refugees if 
it permitted or sanctioned their employment ; that Servia was a frontier 
])rovince, and their employment there would furnish a plausible pretext of 
complaint to Austria. 

********* 

" The conclusion to which the Porte had arrived, he informed me, was 
this — the monthly stipend allowed to the refugees remaining at Shumla 
would be discontinued and both officers and men set at liberty ; those who 
elect, to remain in Turkey, receiving a donation of $11, and those who 
leave the country, $22 each." 

"This latter sum would nearly suffice to pay their passage to America,, 
if there were now at Constantinople vessels constructed and fitted out for 
the conveyance of steerage passengers, but there are none such in port, nor 
indeed are they to be found in the Mediterranean. The refugees who 
speak French or Italian, will be able with such employment as they can 
]-)ick up, and the donation flbove mention, to subsist some weeks : those 
who are acquainted with Maygar and German only, as is the case with 
many of them, can get no employment and must consequently suffer." 



[Copy.] Mr. Marsh to Secretary of State. 

[Extract. — No. 10.] 

Legation of the United States, 
Constantinople, 4th July, ISoO. 
lion. John M. Clayton, &c., &c. 

Sir: * * * * * 

" Since my last despatch, the Minister of Foreign Affairs offered me to 
send all the Hungarian refugees, excepting those detained in Asia Minor, 
who wish to go to America, (about two hundred in number,) to England, 
at the expense of the Sultan, if I would undertake, in behalf of the 
American government to transport them from England to America. I 
regret I had not authority to accept this liberal propcsiil, but was of course 
obliged to decline it." 



9 [2] 

Mr. Marsh to Secretary of State. 

[Extract. — No. 12.] 

Legation of the United States of America, 

Constantinople, August 19, 1850. 

Hon. Daniel Webster, Secretory of State. 

Sir: * * " * * 

In ray despatch, No. 10, I stated that the Porte had offered to transport, 
at its own expense, as far as Liverpool, such of the Hungarian refugees as 
desired to emigrate to America, upon condition, that the American govern- 
ment would provide for their passage fiom England to the United States. 
The intercession of the government of the United States, in behalf of 
Kossuth and his companions, but much more especially the strong mani- 
festations of popular sympathy in the United States in the cause of the 
refugees, had led the Porte to expect with confidence, that some aid 
would be lent thdm, either by the American government, or by the volun- 
tary contributions of individuals ; and I have reason to think, that my 
refusal to pledge the government of the United States to aid their emi- 
gration, was received with disappointment, if not with a stronger feeling, 
Lj the Porte. * # * 



Mr. Marsh to Secretary of State. 
[Extract. — No. 15.] 

Legation of the United States of America, 

Constantinople, November 15, 1850. 
Hon. Daniel Web. ter, Secretary of State. 

v^jj^ .*-**** 

The Porte has determined, as I am informed by the Minister of foreign 
affairs, to send the Polish refugees to England, whence most of them intend 
to emigrate to America. The Hungarians have principally gone back to 
their own country, or wandered into the interior ; but many of them are 
here in a state of great destitution, and their necessities have obliged me 
lo contribute to their relief, to an extent, which, with my inadequate cora- 
]iensation, has been a serious embarrassment to me. I am aware that E 
cannot lawfully claim any allowance for this expenditure in my account 
with the contingent fund, but the action of the government, and the expres- 
sions of public sympathy in America, have put me in a position which has 
absolutely com])elled me to go much beyond my means in su|)plying the 
wants of these sufferino; outcasts. 



Mr. Webster to Mr. Marsh. 

[Extract. — No. 14,] 

Department of State, 
Washington, 25th January, 1851. 
Sir: * * * * * 

"Those parts of your despatches, Nos. 9, 10 and 12, which relate to the 
Hungarian and other refugees in Turkey, were, on the 26th Septendjcr last. 



[ 2 ] 10 

communicated to Congress. No measures were adopted by that body, 
however, which would enable the Executive to extend to those unfortunate 
men, the facilities to come to this country, which the Turkish government 
seemed to expect ; without this authority and an appropriation, the Execu- 
tive could do nothing. This the Turkish government ought to be made 
fully to understand. 



[Copy.] Secretary of State to Mr. John P. Brown. 

Department of State, 
Washington, 22d February, 1851. 
John P. Brown, Esq., Dragoman of the United States Legation at Con- 
stantinople. 

Sir : Being desirous to know the exact condition in which the Hungarian 
exiles are, and what the intentions of the Turkish government are supposed 
to be in regard to them, I would be obliged to you, if you would give me 
such information on this subject as you may possess. 

Yours respectfully, 

DANIEL WEBSTER. 



[Copy.] John P. Broivn to the Secretary of State 

Washington, February 23, 1851. 
Hon. Daniel Webster, Secretary of State of the United States. 

Sir : I have had the honor to receive your letter, of the 22(1 instant, in 
which you are pleased to request that I should communicate to the Depart- 
ment whatever information I may possess respecting the circumstances con- 
nected with the detention of Mr. Louis Kossuth and his companions, now 
in Kutayich, in Asia Minor ; and consequently beg leave to lay before it 
the following statement : 

When, in September, 1849, Mr. Kossuth and his compnnions fled from 
Ilungiiry, and found safety in the dominions of the Sultan of Turkey, from 
the united forces of Austria and Russia, they (the Poles and Hungarians 
together,) amounted to some four thousand in number. You are aware 
that the Emperors of Austria and Russia demanded, that the Sultan of 
Turkey, whose protection they had claimed, should deliver them up, and 
that the Sultan generously refused to accede to their demands. The Sultan 
however, as a matter of friendly compromise, addressed to each of these 
sovereigns an autograph letter, offering to expel from his Empire, or to 
detain in it, under surveillance, any of the refugees whom they might de- 
signate. The Emperor of Russia requested that all the Poles should be 
expelled from Turkey, and consequently, the Sultan sent to Malta, some 
two hundred and fifty Poles in one of his own steamers, and they have 
dispersed throughout France and Belgium. The Emperor of Austria asked 
the detention in Turkey of such of the Hungarian chiefs as he might namr 
in a list, which would be given to the Porte by the Austrian Legation at 
Constantinople. In the mean time, a large number of the refugees escaped 
from Turkey, through the generous connivance of the Turkish authorities, 
and made their way to difllerent parts of Europe, and even to the United 



11 [2] 

States. In this manner, the original nvunber of the refugees soon became 
Very much diminished. 

In the Sultan's offer to detain the Hungarian chiefs, he made no allusion 
to any period of time, and its duration, consequently depends wholly upon 
himself. Notwithstanding the pressing demands of the Austrian govern- 
ment that Mr. Kossuth, and the others named in its list, should be detained 
for life, the humane and generous Sultan, promised only ojie year. 

The Austrian government subsequently diminished its demand to twenty, 
fifteen, ten, and finally to five years; but the Sultan remained fiim at his 
offer of one year. It was questioned, previous to my departure from Con- 
stantinople, when the year offered by the Sultan should commence, and 
when terminate ; and as the refugees had crossed the Danube and entered 
Turkey in the month of September, 1849, it might commence with that 
event and end in the same month of the following year ; or it might com- 
mence with the date of the list of the individuals whom the Austrian go- 
vernment desired should be detained, that is to say, at the end of May, 
1850, (when the list was by mutual agreement to be closed,) in which 
case, the period of their detention would terminate with the month of 
May, of the present year. In the meantime, ]\Ir. Kossuth with some 
twenty five or thirty others named in the list, and about forty more, who, 
at their own request, were allowed to share in the exile of their late Go- 
vernor, wei-e removed by the Sultan's orders tVom Shumla, in Roomelia, 
to Kutayich, the place fixed upon for their residence, and where they 
yet remain under strict surveillance. The Hungarians who remained at 
Shumla continued to receive rations and a small montldy sti]U'nd out of the 
Sultan's treasury ; those who escaped to the Capital, and did not leave the 
country, forfeited this pecuniary assistance, and consequently, soon fell 
into very destitute circumstances. Many of the latter found emjdoyment 
in the service of benevolent Musselmans ; others were employed in the 
Sultan's army, and a good number end)raced Islamism in the hope of re- 
ceiving military preferment. Contributions were made among the foreign 
legations and among the foreign residents in Pera, for the relief of the more 
needy, and the Turkish ministers never fiiiled to aid those whose peculiar 
destitution was made known to them. This was the position of the affair 
wlien I left Constantinople, May 20th, of last year ; and in the expectation 
that the year for which Mr. Kossuth was to be detained vrould terminate 
in the md^ith of last September, I fully believed that he woidd ere this, 
have been released, and in the enjoyment of the blessing of liberty in the 
United States. 

It was the Sultan's promise, contained in his auton-raph leKer to the 
Em[)eroi- of Austria, which prevented his government liom accepting the 
s;enerous olfer of the late lamented President, to convey Mr. Kossuth and 
his friends to the United States in one of our public vessels, which oiler 
was made in March last, through the Minister resident of the Ur,ite(l Stales 
lit Constantinople. The Sultan, I cannot but feel confident, has no desire 
or interest in the detention of Mr. Kossuth, and would be most hapjiy, I 
lii'lieve, to be released from the expense and inconvenience which it occa- 
sions him. And whilst the Tui'kish government decided not to permit him 
to be conveyed to this country in the steamer " Misslssijjpi," wliich vessel 
was proposed to it for that purpose, some of the Sultan's ministers ex- 
pressed the most positive assurances, in which 1 still ])lace confidence, that 
his detention should not be prolonged beyoud the period of one year. 



[3] 



12 



During the last summer, the Turkish government offered to the Minister' 
resident, to send the Hungarians to Liverpool, in one of the Sultan's^ 
steamers, in case his government would provide means for their conveyance 
to this country ; and fromt the circumstance, that the period of their de- 
parture from Turkey vi^ould have been about the month of September — one 
yeaf from the date of their entrance into the Sidtan's dominions, I am in- 
duced to believe that Mr. Kossuth would have been of their number. The 
Minister resident, not feeling himself at liberty to bind the government, 
from the want of any authority to do so, the Hungarians were not sent. 
I also apprehend that the Austrian government, at that time made serious 
opposition to his release ; and that the Sultan was induced by it, to defer 
it until a more favorable opportunity should offer. 

I am privately informed from Constantinople, under date of the 11th ult. 
that the Sultan had brought three hundred of the refugees from Shuiula to 
Constantinople ; probably all that remained there of the original four thou- 
sand, and was about to embark them in a vessel chartered by him for 
England, and that he had given to each one, one thousand piastres, (forty 
dollars,) with which to defray their expenses to this country, where they 
were desirous of proceeding for the purpose of engaging in agricultural 
pursuits; The same letter adds, that at that time, there was nothing 
certain known about Mr. Kossuth's release. 

In view of the preceding, I would respectfidly suggest, that the Presi- 
dent direct the Minister resident at Constantinople, to renew, as early as 
practicable, to the Turkish government, the offer of his late lamented 
predecessor, to convey Mr. I^ossuth and such of his friends as may desire 
to accompany him to the United States, in one of our public vessels. For 
this purpose the steamer " Mississippi," now in the Mediterranean squadron 
might be ordered to proceed up to Constantinople, and in the conviction 
which I entertain, that the Sultan's government will be disposed to release 
Mr. Kossuth and the other exiles at Kutayic'h, at the end of next May ; I 
also believe, that this offer will then be very opportune, and enable the 
Sultan and his present enlightened Ministers to carry their humane inten- 
tions into effect, without exciting the apprehensions of the Austrian go- 
vernment, which would not wish Mr. Kossuth to be set at liberty, and be 
permitted to remain so near to the Hungarian frontier as Constantinople. 
I have the honor to be sir, with great respect, 

Your obedient servant, • 

JOHN P. BROWN, 

United States Bracroman, 



[No, 1-5.] Mr. Webster to Mr. Marsh. 

Department of Stat^k, 
Washington, February 28* 1851, 

George P. MARSI^, Es=q., &c., &c.j Constantinople. 

Sir: I am directed by the President to address 3'ou on the subject of 
the Hungarian Refugees, who are now in the Turki.'sh Dominions. 

It is understood, by this Government, that Mr. Kossuth and forty or 
fifty others, his con^panlons, are in confinement in Kutayich, in Asia Minor, 
■where they have been for a year, or more, and that they continue to feel 
an earnest desire to come to the United States. 



13 [2] 

By a despatch of my predecessor you were instructed to offer to the 
Sublime Porte to receive Mr. Kcssuth, and his companions, on board of 
one of the National Ships of the United States, to convey them to this 
country. 

It would have been extremely gratifying to the Government and people 
of the United States, if this proposition could have been, at that time, 
accepted ; but it is understood, that its not having been complied with by 
the Sublime Porte, did not arise from a wish, on His Imperial Majesty's 
part, to detain them, or from any unwillingjiess, that they should proceed 
to the United States, but was in consequence of the Sultan's offer to Aus- 
tria, to detain these persons for one year, at the expiration of which 
time unless further conventions should be entered into to prolong their 
detention, they should be at liberty to depart. 

If this be so, the time is near at hand, when their release may be ex- 
pected, and when they may be permitted, to seek an asylum in any part of 
the world, to which they shall be able to procure the means of transpor- 
tation. 

It is confidently hoped, that the Sublime Porte has not made, and will 
jiot make, any new f».tipu!ation, with any power, for their detention; and 
you are directed to addi'ess yourself urgently; though respectfully, to the 
Sublime Porte on this question. 

You will cause it to be strongly represented, that, while this Govern- 
ment has no desire or intention to interfere, in any manner, with questions 
of public policy, or international or municipal relations of other Govern- 
ments, not affecting the rights of its own citizens, and while it has 'entire 
confidence in the justice and magnanimity and dignity of the Sublime Porte, 
yet, on a matter of such universal interest, it hopes, that suggestions, pro- 
ceeding from no other motives, than those of friendship and respect for the 
Porte, a desire for the continuance and ]:)erpetuity of its independence and 
dignified position among the nation of the earth, and a sentiment of com- 
misseration for the Hungarian Exiles, — may be received by the Porte in 
the same friendly spirit , in which they are offered, and that the growing 
good feeling and increasing intercourse between the two Governments may 
l)e still further fostered and extended, by a happy concurrence of opinion, 
and reciprocity of confidence, upon this as upon all other su])jects. Com- 
])liance with the wishes of the government and })eople of the United States, 
in this repect, will be regarded as a friendly recognition of their intercession, 
and as a juoof of national good will and regard. 

The course which the Sul)lime Porte pursued, in refusing to allow the 
Hungarian Exiles to be seized upon its soil by the forces of a foreign state, 
or to arrest and deliver them up itself to their jnirsuei's, was hailed with uni- 
versal approbation, it might be said with gratitude, every where through- 
out the United States, and this sentiment was not the less strong, because 
the demand upon the Sublime Porte was made by governments confident 
in their great military power, with armies iu the field of vast strength, 
flushed with recent victory, and whose purposes were not to be thwarted, 
or their pursuit stayed, by any obstacle less than the interposition of an 
Em))ire, prepared to maintain the inviolability of its territories and its 
absolute sovereignty over its own soil. 

Tliis govenment, jealous of its own territorial rights, regarded with 
great respect and hearty approbation the firm and lofty position, assumed 
^y His Imperial Majesty at that time, and so proudly maintained, under 



[2] 



14 



circumstances well calculated to Inspire doulit, and against demands, urged 
with such gravity, and supported by so formidable an array. His Imperial 
Majesty felt, that he should be no longer an independent Prince, if he 
consented to be anything less than the sovereign of his own dominions. 

While thus regarding the political position and conduct of the Sublime 
Porte, in reference to other powers. His Majesity's generosity in providing 
for the wants of the fugitives, thus unexpectedly, and in so great numbers, 
throwing themselves upon his protection, is considered equally worthy of 
admiration. 

On the other hand, it is not difficult to conceive, what may have been 
the considerations, which led the Sublime Porte to consent to remove these 
persons from its frontiers, require them to repair to the interior, and there 
to remain for a limited time. 

A great attempt at revolution against the established authorities of a 
neighboring state, with which the Sublime Porte was at peace, and with 
wdiich it desired to preserve friendly relations, had only then been sup- 
pressed ; the chief actors in that attempt had escaped into the dominions 
of the Porte. To permit them to remain upon its frontiers, where they 
might project new undertakings against that state, and into which, if 
circumstances favored, they could enter in arms at any time, — might well 
have been considered dangerous to both Governments ; and the Sublime 
Porte, while protecting them, might certainly also prevent their occupying 
any such position in its own dominions, as should give just cause and 
alarm to neighboring and friendly Powers. Their removal to certain 
localities might also be rendered desirable by consideations of conveui- 
ence to the Sublime Porte itself, upon whole charity and generosity such 
numbers had so suddenly become dependent. 

The detention of these persons for a short period of time, in order that 
they might not at once repair to other parts of Europe, to renew their 
operations, was a request that it was not unnatural to make, and was 
certainly, in the decretion of the Sublime Porte to grant, without any 
sacrifice of its dignity, or any want of kindness towards the Refugees. 

But, at this time, all possible apprehension of danger or disturbance, 
to result from their liberation, has ceased. 

It is now more than a year since the last Hungarian army surrendered, 
and the attempt at revolution, and the estabishment of an independent 
government, in which they were engaged, were most sternly crushed by 
the united forces of two of the greatest powers of Europe, 

Their chief associates are, like themselves, in exile, or they have perished 
on the field, or on the scaffold, or by military execution, their estates are 
confiscated, their families dispersed, and every castle, fortress and city of 
Hungary, is in the possession of the forces of Austria. 

They themselves, by their desire to remove so far from the scene of 
their late conflict, declare, that they entertain no hope, or thought, of 
other similar attempts, and wish only to be premitted to withdraw them- 
selves altogether from all Europan association, and seek new homes in the 
vast interior of the United States. 

For their attempt at independence they have most dearly paid, and now^ 
broken in fortune and in heart, without home or country, a band of exiles, 
whose only future is a tearful remembrance of the past, wdiose only 
request is to spend their remaning days in obscure industry, — they wait 
the permission of His Imperial Majesty, to remove themselves, and all that 



15 [2] 

may remain to them, across the ocean, to the uncultivated regions of 
America, and leave, for ever, a continent which to them has become more 
gloomy than the wilderness, more lone and dreary than the desert. 

The i)eople of the United States expect from the generosity of the Turk- 
ish Monarch that this permission will be given; they wait to receive these 
exiles on their shores, where, without giving just cause of uneasiness to 
any Government, they may enjoy whatever of consolation can be afforded 
by sympathy for their sufferings, and that assistance in their necessities, 
which tliis people have never been late in offering to any, and which they 
are not now for the first time called upon to render. 

Accustomed themselves to high ideas of National Independence, the 
people of the United States would regret to see the government of the 
vast Empire of Turkey, constrained by the force of circumstances, to 
exercise the duty of keeping prisoners for other powers. 

You will farther say to the Sublime Porte, that if, as this government 
hopes and believes, Mr. Kossuth and his companions are allowed to depart 
from the dominions of His Imperial Majesty at the expiration of the year 
commencing in May 18-30, they will tind conveyance to the United States 
in some of its National ships, now in the Mediterranean sea, which can be 
.spared for that purpose, and you will, on receiving assurances that these 
persons v,'ill be permitted to embark, ascertain precisely their number, ancl 
immediately give notice to the Commander of the United States squadron 
on that station, who will receive orders from the proper authorities, 
to be present with such ships, as may be necessary, or can leave the 
station, to furnish conveyance for Kossuth and his companions -to the 
United States, 



HAMILTON PUBLIC PRINTEll. 



SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



THE SMITIISONIAI IISTITUTIOI 



SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, • 



SHOWING THE 



OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION, 
DURING THE TEAR 1851, 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOAP.D OF REGENTS UP TO DATE. 



WASHINGTON: 
PRINTED BY A. BOYD HAMILTON. 

1852. 



32d Congress, [SENATE.] Miscellaneous, 

1st Session. No. 108. 



LETTER 

FROM 

THE SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

COMMUXICATIXG 

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 



August 20, 1852. 

Ordered to lie on the table and be printed. 

August 26, 1852. 

Ordered, Tliat 5000 additional conies be printed — 20C0 of wliicli for tlie use of the Smith- 
sonian Institnto. 



Smithsonian Institution*, 

A/igKst 20, 1852. 
Sir : I have the honor herewith to transmit to yon the annual report of the Board of Re- 
gents of the Smithsonian Institution, and beg leave to request tliat you will present the 
same to the Congress of the United States. 

I am, .sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary. 
Hon. Wii-LiAM R. King, 

Vreiiihnt of the Senali". 



[108] 



OFFICERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

MILLARD FILLMORE, Ex-o£icio Presiding Officer of the Institution. 

ROGER B. TA.NET, Chancellor of the Institution. 

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution. 

CHARLES C. JEWETT, Assistant Secretary in charge of the Library, 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary in charge of the Museum. 

EDWARD FOREMAN, General Assistant. 

ALEXANDER D. BACHE, 1 

JAMES A. PEARCE, \ Executive Committee. 

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, j 

RICHARD RUSH, 1 

GRAHAM N. FITCH, 

WALTER LENOX, <- ^"il<iii^S Committee. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 

W. W. SEATON, Treasurer. ' 

JAMES RENWICK, Jr., Architect. 

GILBERT CAMERON, Contractor. 



REaENTS OP THE INSTITUTION. 



■Vice President of the United States. 



ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States. 
WALTER LENOX, Mayor of the City of Washington. 
JAMES A. PEARCE, Member of the Senate of the United States. 
JAMES M. MASON, Member of the Senate of the United States. 

Member of the Senate of the United States. 

GRAHAM N. FITCH, Member of the House of Representatives of the United Stated. 

WILLIAM F. COLCOCK, Member of the House of Representatives of the United Stfatcs. 

JAMES MEACHAM, I\rember of the House of Representatives of the United States. 

RUFUS CHOATE, Citizen of Massachusetts. 

GIDEON IIAWLEY, Citizen of New York. 

WILLIAM C. PRESTON, Citizen of South Carolina, 

RICHARD RUSH, Citizen of Pennsylvania. 

ALEXANDER D. BACHE, Member of the National Institute, Washington. 

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, Member ofthe National Institute, Washington. 



[108] 



MEMBERS i:X-0FFIC10 OK THE INSTITUTION. 

MILLARD FILLMORE, Prosident of tho United States. 

Vice President of tlic LTnited States. 

DANIEL WEBSTER, Secretary of State. 
THOMAS COR WIN, Secretary of the Treasury. 
CHARLES M. CONRAD, Secretary of War. 
WILLIAM A. GRAIFAM, Secretary of tlie Navy. 
NATHAN K. HALL, Postmaster General. 
JOHN .1. CRITTENDEN, Attorney General. 
ROGER E. TANEY, Chief Justice United States. 
THOMAS EWBANK, Commissioner of Patents. 
WALTER LENOX, M;>yor of the City of Washington. 



HONORARY MEMBEBS. 

ROBERT HARE, BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, 

WASHINGTON IRVING. 



I 108 ] 6 



Sixth annual report of the Board of Reoents of the Smithson- 
ian Institution, showing the operations, expenditures and con- 
dition of the institution up to January 1, 1852. 



To the Senate and House of Represeiitatives: 

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 184G, establishing 
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in jieiialf of the Regents, 
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures and con- 
dition of the institution, the following documents : 

1. The Annual report of tlie Secretary, giving an account of the opera- 
tions of the Institution during the year 1851, including reports from the 
Assistant Secretaries, relative to the library, museum, &c. 

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement of 
the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an account 
of the expenditures for the year 1851. 

3. Report of the Building Committee relative to the progress made in 
1851, in the erection of the Smithsonian edifice. 

4. Proceedings of the Board of Regents. 

5. Appendix. 

Respectfully submitted, 

ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor. 
JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE SECIIKTARY. 



To the Board of llegents of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Gentlemen : Besides the care of ail tlie propt-rty of the Institution, aiu! 
the responsibility of the direction of its operations, under the control of the 
Regents, the secretary is required to give anaccouni, at their annual session, 
of the condition of the Institution, and of its transactions during ihe pre- 
ceding year. 

In the discharge of this duty on the present occasion, I am lia{>py to 
inform the Regeiits that the Institution under their care is still in a prosper- 
ous condition, "and that since their last meeting, it has continued silently, 
but effectually, to enlarge the 5'phei-e of its influence and usefulness, and to 
elicit from every part of the civilized world commendations, not only ot 
the plan of organization it lias adopted, but also of the results it has 
produced. 

In my last report I gave a lirief account of the means employed to in- 
crease the income, so that in addition to the requirements of Corsgress in 
regard to the formation of a library and a museum, and the erection of a 
building on a liberal scale, operations of a more active characlei' could he 
incorporated into tlie plan of organization. 

During the past year the same policy has been observed: and though 
the ollicers of the Institudon have been subjected to the inronvenience of 
transactinsj business in an unfinished hui]din<r, and in rooms not intended for 
the purpose, yet this has been considered ot minor nnj)ortance m comparison 
with the saving of the funds. Every dollar nou' expended on th(> buihling 
ies.sens the amount of accruing interest, and diminishes the means of produ- 
cing results which are to affect the world at large; hence the importance oi 
an adherence to the plan of finishing it by degrees. Since the last session of 
the board, it has, theiefore, not been thought advisable to urge the contractor 
to a rapid completion of his work, and all the expenditures on account ot 
the building have been made from the accrued interest of the current year, 
and from a portion ot that of the year preceding. There is consequently 
still on hand the two hundred thousand dollars of accumulated interest men- 
tioned in the last and preceding reports. Of this, it will be recollected, 
$50,000 are to be applied towards finishing the building, and the remain- 
der to be invested as part of the j>rincipal. 

The importance of increasing the funds and of gradua^ly developing the 
operations embraced in the programme, was set forth in the last report. 
The Institution, it is to be hoped, is not one of a day, but is to endure as 
llong as our government shall last; it is therefore necessary, in the begin- 
ning, that we should constantly look to the future, and guard against the 
temptation, to which we are continually exposed, of expanding too rapidly. 

By a resolution of the board, at their session in 1849, theSecretary was 
directed to petition Congress to take from the Inslitution f>L-30,000, and 
such otlier sums, not exceeding in all $200,000, as may have been, or shall 



[ 108 ] 8 

1)6 received in accruing interest or otherwise, upon the same terms as 
those on which the original bequest had been accepted. This petition 
was referred to a coinmittee and favorably reported upon, but unfortunately 
the press of business prevented Congress Irom acting upon it at their 
last session. The petition will again be renewed, and it is believed that 
so reasonable a request will meet with a favorable reception. It is, how- 
ever, thought important that the amount should be increased, and that the 
sum of S2o0,000 be inserted in the petition, instead of that named in the 
resolution. 

In addition to the SloO,000 which the regents thus seek to invest, there 
is still a portion of the original legacy remaining in England as the princi- 
pal of an annuity settled upon Madame De la Batut, the mother of the 
uephew of Smithson, to whom his property was originally bequeathed. 
Besides this, I am informed, upon good authority, that the Institution is the 
(ontingent legatee of an estate of considerable magnitude, depending on 
lhe demise without issue of a single individual. We may also reasonably 
expect Ihat if the affairs of the Institution are properly cowlucted, and its- 
funds judiciously husbanded or properly expended on the legitimate objects 
of the bequest, other trusts will be comunitted to its care. It therefore 
becomes important that the limit should be at least S2o0,000, so that the 
whole sum, including the original bequest, shall amount to a little more 
than $750,000. There can surely be no just grounds of fear that the in- 
come of this suai will be devoted to improper uses, so long as it is an essen- 
1ial part of the plun, to produce fruits the value of which can be judged by all 
who are capable of appreciating the advance of knowledge. This request 
is also in accordance with the policy adopted by the Institution of asking 
nothing trorn Congress but the safe keeping of its funds, and the appoint- 
ycent to its board of regents of gentlemen of intelligence and high moral 
principles. 

The government has thus far liberally fullilled the obligations which it 
imposed upon itself in accepting the tgust. Not only has the original sum 
t)een permanently invested in the treasur)' of the United States, but interest 
lias been allowed from the time of receiving the funds. Congress has also 
made several donations to the Institution, which, though they will not 
prove as valuable to us as could be wished, indicate a liberal intention. The 
first gift was the great museum of the Exploring Expedition, for the accom- 
modation of which the larger portion of the present building w^is origi- 
nally intended ; the second was a grant of nineteen acres of land surround- 
ing the building of the Institution; the third, a copy of every book pub- 
lished in the United States for which a copyright might be granted; the 
fourth and last gift was that of all the plates, manuscripts, &c., of the 
Exploring Expedition, for the purpose of publishing a new edition for dis- 
tribution. 

These donations, though made with kindly feelings and in a spirit of 
liberalit}', have proved singularly unprofitable. The maintenance of the 
museum of the Exploring Expedition would subject the Institution to an 
annual, expense vrhich ^vould materially interfere with more important 
operations. After expending several thousand dollars on the ieriprovement 
of the grounds, it has been deemed best to return them to the charge of 
the general government. Were the copyright act fully complied with, 
perhaps some benefit might accrue from it to th^ Institution; but in the 
manner in which it is at present observed, the expense of postage and of 



9 [ 108 J 

clrrk hire in recording" llic (ilk'saud liiruisliino- ihc ri'rlillcitlt's ofdcposii, 
has more than equalled Ihe value to us of all the books received. Lastly, 
it has l)een estimated that the publication of a new edition of the expensive 
volumes of the results of the Exploring Expedition would cost at least fifty 
thousand dollars. Foriunat(dy, it has not been (Xjiisidcrod obligatory on 
the histilution, cxcr]ii in Ibe cns(: of the copyright law, lo accept these 
gilts. 

Puhlicatlan of 7nnnoir>:. — Since the adoption of the })!aii of organization, 
nearly fifty original lueuioirs, purporting to be additions (o the stun oi' human 
knowledge, h.ave been jiresented to the Institution for publication. Though 
a number of these have been letuiiied lo their authors, princi]ial!y on account 
of not failing within the restricted class of communications acce])ted for pub- 
lication, yet they have generally been productions of much merit, and have 
evinced a surprising activity of mind, and manifest a growing attention in 
this country to original j-esearch. The probable success of this part of 
the plan of organization was not overrated; for, w^ere the whole income of 
the institution devoteil alone to ])ublishing the residts of the labors of men 
of literature and of science, which otherwise Vvould never see the light, it 
could be profitably expended. In this respect, the Smithsonian bequest 
supplies the wants which iji Eiu'ope are met by richly eiidowed academies 
and national societies. 

It will be recollected that each memoir is printed separiUely, and with a 
separate title and paging, so that it can be distributed to persons most in- 
terested in its })erusal as soon as it comes from the press, without waiting 
for the completion of the volume to which it belongs. In this way, the 
author is enabled to present a full account of his discoveries to the world 
with the least possible delay, while, by the rules of the Institution, he is al- 
lowed to publish an abstract of his paper in the proceedings of the Amer- 
ican Association for the advancement of science, or in those of any other 
pro])erly organized society. 

The number of copies of the Smithsonian Contributions distributed is 
greater than that of the transactions of any scientific or literary society, 
and therefore the Institution offers the best medium to be found for diffusing 
a knowledge of scientific discoveries. 

Every memoir pu.blished by the Institution is issued with the stam?- of ap- 
proval of a commission of competent judges, and in order to secure a cau- 
tious and candid opinion, the name of the author, and those of the exam- 
iners, are not made known to each other unless a favorable report is given, 
and, in this case, the names of the commission are printed, as vouchei's Jor 
the character of the memoir, on the reverse of the title-page. 

This plan secures an untrammelled expression of opinion, while it induces 
caution on account of the responsibility which it involves. 

Besides deciding on the fitness of original memoirs for publication, the 
Institution is continually applied to for information relative to almost every 
department of literature and science. Respectful attention is always given 
to these applications, and when the desired answer does not fall within the 
line of study of any officer of the Institution, it is sought for from those in 
whose knowledge and judgment we have full confidence. No inconsiderable 
])ortion of time is occupied in giving the information involved in the answer 
to these inquiries : but I am hap})y to inform the board that in this service, 
as well as in that of examining memoirs, we have received the co-operation 
of a considerable number of the most distinguished individaals in our coun 



[ 108 ] 10 

try, and in scarcely a single case has application for assistance in this way 
been refused. By the operation of the plan adopted, the Institution can 
command the talents and learning of the world, and with a small corps of 
permanent officers, or a sufficient clerical force, can discharge the duty of 
an association to which subjects, relative to all branches of knowledge, can 
be referred. 

There is one class of requests which, by a resolution of the Board of Re- 
gents, we are directed to refuse, viz : those for the examination and approval 
of the innumerable inventions by which the ingenious and enterprising seek 
to better their own condition and that of the public. Were it not for this 
resolution, originally proposed by Governor Cass, we would be overwhelmed 
with applications of this kind, and have forced upon us the business of the 
Patent Office. Besides this, the principal object of the organization is the 
discovery of new truths, rather than the application of known principles to 
useful purposes. Not that we would undervalue the labors of the inventor ; 
but because practical knowledge has a marketable value which always in- 
sures its Cultivation, provided the higher philosophical truths on whicli it is 
founded are sufiiciently developed and made known. 

The idea is still very generally entertained that Smithson bequeathed his 
property to this country for the diffusion of useful knowledge among the 
people, and that his intention would be best consulted by the expenditure 
of all the income in the publication and general distribution of tracts on 
practical subjects. The adoption of this plan would be to dissipate the 
funds without beneficial eifect. A single report of the Patent Office costs, 
in some instances, more than three times the income of the Smithsonian 
fund, wdiich itself would be insufficient for the general diffusion of a single 
octavo page of j)rinted matter. The property, however, was not left to the 
inhabitants of the United States, but to the government, in trust for the 
good of man; and not merel for the dissemination or difiusion of know- 
ledge, but, first of all, for creating, originating, increasing it. Furthermore, 
Smithson does not confine his bequest to the promotion o( useful knowledge 
alone, in the lower sense of the term, but includes all knowledge in his 
liberal and philosophical design. The true, the beautiful, as well as the 
immediately practical, are all entitled to a share of attention. All know- 
ledge is profitable : profitable in its ennobling effect on the character, in 
the pleasure it imparts in its acquisition, as well as in the power it gives 
over the operations of mind and of matter. All knowledge is useful ; every 
part of this complex system of nature is connected with evejy other. Nothing 
is isolated. The discovery of to-day, which appears unconnected with any 
useful process, may, in the course of a few years, become the fruitful source 
of a thousand inventions. 

That the encouragement of the discovery of new truths, the publication of 
original memoirs, and the establishment of new researches:, are in conformity 
with the design of Smithson, is not only manifest from the terms of his 
will, but also from the fact, which has lately come to our knowledge, that 
he at first left his property to the Royal Society of London, for the very 
object embraced in this part of the plan. And what prouder monument 
could any man desire than the perpetual association of his name with a 
series of new truths I This building and all its contents may be destroyed, 
but the volumes of the Smithsonian Contributi^ons, distributed as they are 
among a thousand libraries, are as wide-spread and lasting as civilization 
itself. 



II [108] 

During the past year a nainl)er of meinoii'^ Jiave been accepted for pub- 
lication, and are either in the press, or are waiting the drawings to illustrate 
them, now in the hands of the engraver. It is the duty of the secretary, 
in accordance with the original plan of the Institution, to give a popular 
account of these memoirs in his annual report. 

The first is a memoir by J)r. Asa Gray, professor of botany in JIarvard 
University, consisting of an account of a coliection of plants made by Mr. 
Charles Wright, in an expedition from Texas to El Paso, in the summer and 
autumn of 1849. 

It was stated in my re])ort for that year, that one hundred and fifty dol- 
lars had been subscribed on the part of the Institution toward the outfit of 
Mr. Wright, and that the plants collected by him would be submitted to 
Dr. Gray for examination and description. The memoir now mentioned is 
the result of this arrangement, though it also contains notices of jilants 
gathered by other collectors in adjacent regions, especially by Dr. Wislizenus 
in the valley of the Rio Grande and Chihuahua ; and by the lamented Dr. 
Gregg in the same district, and in the northern part of Mexico. This me- 
moir is a good exposition of the character of the vegetation, and conse- 
quently of the climate, of the regions traversed. 

Specimens of all the plants obtained by Mr. Wright belong to this Insti- 
tution ; and these, with sets collected by Fendler and Lindhcimer, form the 
nucleus of an important and aulftentic North American herbarium. 

Another paper on botany is by Dr. John Torrey, of the college of New 
Jersey, Princeton. It gives illustrations of the botany of Calitornia, and 
describes a number of new and interesting plants discovered by Colonel 
Fremont in his different ex})lorations in thai country. 

Some of the plants collected by this intrepid traveller have been described 
in the appendix to his first and second report; but many ai-e still unpub- 
lished. Of the collections made during his third expedition, no descriptions 
have been given, except that two or three of the new plants were briefly 
characterized by Dr. Gray, in order to secure priority of discovery. 

In the memoir presented to the Institution, Dr. Torrey has given descrip- 
tions of a number of genera of new and remarkable plants, all collected by 
Col. Fremont in the passes and on the sides of the Serra Nevada. With 
regard to this publication i)r. Torrey remarks, that he had hoped that ar- 
rangements woidd have been made by the government of the United States 
for the publication of a general account of the botany of California ; but as 
there is no immediate prospect of such a work being undeitaken, this me- 
moir, on some of tho more interesting genera discovered by Col. Fremont, 
has been prepaie I !or the Smithsonian Ir;stitution. 

The drawings :o illustrate this paper have been made, at the expense of 
the institution, ' y Mr. Isaac S})rague, of Cambridge, wlio, in the opinion of 
Dr. Torrey, r.Miks among the best botanical draughtsmen of our day. 

The next j aper presents the results of a series of observations made in 
the years 1'- 10-6-7, to determine the dij), inclination and intensity of the 
magnetic f )rce in several parts of the United States, by John Locke, M. D., 
professor oi chemistry in the medical college ot" Ohio, 'i'he results ]>resented 
in this j*aper are a continuation of a series derived from observations begun 
in 18-37, and prosecuted annually for ten years. The first parts of the 
seiies have been published in the tran:>actions of the American Philosophical 
Society, and have been incorporated by Col. Sabine, in his contributions to 
Terrestrial Magnetism. A part of the observations given in this memoir 



|_ lOS J 12 

■were made at the expense and under the direction of the United States Coast 
Survey. Another portion was made in accordance with the direction of the 
Hon. Robert J. Walker, late Secretary of the Treasury, as a part of the 
investigations instituted for the exploration of the mineral lands belonging 
to the general government. This paper has been examined by competent 
judges, and recommended for publication in the Smithsonian Contributions, 
as an important addition to knowledge. 

A paper has also been presenteil for publication by the executors of the 
late Doctor Troostr, of Nashville. It consists of descriptions and drawings 
of a very numerous family of extinct zoophytes, to which the organic re- 
main called the stone lily belongs. The vicinity of Nashville appears to [)e 
a remarkable locality for these remains, and the paper of Professor Troost 
describes several hundred species, of which two only have Jiving represen- 
tatives. 

The memoir, however, is not in a condition to be published without 
revision, and additions to bring it up to the state of knowledge at the pre- 
sent time. This labor has been gratuitously undertaken by Professor 
Agassiz, of Cambridge, and Professor James Hall, of Albany. The collec- 
tion of specimens, from which the drawings were made, is now in the pos- 
session of these gentlemen, and the memoir will be published as soon as the 
corrections and additions are made. 

The next memoir is on the winds of the northern hemisphere, by Profes- 
sor James Coifm. The design of this communication, in the w^ords of the 
author, is "(o ansv/er the following questions, viz : 

"1. What is the average direction in which the lower strata of the air 
moves over diiferent regions of the northern hemisphere? 

"2. What is the rate of progress in the mean direction as compared 
with the total distance travelled by the wind ? 

"o. Vvliat modifications do the mean direction and rate of progress 
undergo in the different months of the year? 

"4. What is the direction of the deflecting forces that cause these 
modifications? 

"0. What is the average relative force and velocity of winds from seve- 
ral points of the compass? 

"6. How will the introduction or omission of the latter element affect 
the answer of the preceding questions?" 

The data used in answering these questions have been collected with 
great labor, and consist of observations made at no less than five hundred 
and seventy-six different stations on land, and a large number taken during 
numerous voyages at sea. The field of observation includes a zone which 
extends from the equator to nearly the ])arallel of 85° of north latitude, and 
occupies a period, taken in the aggregate, of 2,800 years. 

Several of the foregoin"; questions liave been answered approximately by 
other writers, but never, it is believed, from as extensive an induction as is 
presented in this memoir. 

This paper is illustrated by a number of maps and diagrams, which ren- 
der its publication very expensive. It was presented to the Institution more 
than a year ago, but the appropriation for printing was not sufficient to 
allow of its publication at that time. 

The Institulion has also commenced the publication of an extended 
memoir, consisting of a grammar and lexicon of the Dakota language, the 
results of the joint labors, during eighteen years, of the Dakota mission, 



13 [ 108 ] 



assi.sU'il b}' the most iiileliigcul natives of tills tribe of Indians. Tiie Aviiole 
has been arranged, and ph^cci! in its present form, by the Rev. S. R. Kigg's, 
of the American Board, 

This work was prepared under the auspices of the Historical Society of 
Minnesota, and recommended b} this associ;itio;i to the favorable attention 
of the Smithsonian Institution. It is designed to meet the requireraents of 
the missionary in his labor of diffusing the light of religion and civilization 
among one of the most numerous and important tribes of Indians in the 
country. It also form.s an interesting addition to ethnology^ v;Iiicli vrill be 
highly prized by all devoted to this branch of knovv'ledge. 

A language is not originally a thing of man's device, or the result of con- 
ventional art, but the spontaneous production of human instinct, modified 
by the mental character, the physical conditions, and other peculiarities of 
the people or tribe among which it had its origin, or by whom it is used. 
It is subject to definite laws of formation and developeraent, and is inti- 
mately connected with the history of the migrations and aifiliations of the 
people by whom it is spoken, and hence becomes an object of interest to the 
student of the natural history of man. 

In accordance with the policy of not expending the Sniithionian fund in 
doing with it what could be equally well done by other means, this memoir 
was first referred to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, with the hope that it 
might be adopted as a part of the materials of the volumes published' under 
the direction of that bureau; but this was not found practicable, and the 
task was therefore undertaken by the Institution. 

The memoir v/ill occupy an entire volume, and would have been too 
much for our present income, had not about one-third of the whole cost of 
publication been promised by subscription from the members of the Histori- 
cal Society of Minnesota and the American Board of Missions. The latter 
institution defrays the expenses of Mr. Riggs while he is engaged in super- 
intending the jiassage of the work through the press. It is a pleasant cir- 
cumstance that iu this instance, as w^ell as in many others, the organization 
of the Institution enables it to co-operate with other institutions, and to 
assist them in their labors of promoting knowledge. 

This memoir, which is now in the press, was referred for critical examin- 
ation to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and to Professor 
Turner, of New York. The latter has furnished us with a report on the 
importance of collecting information relative to the different dialects now 
in use among the Indians. 

Dr. Joseph Leidy, of Philadelphia, has prepared a memoir for the Insti- 
tution, accompanied by numerous illustrations, entitled " A Flora and Fauna 
of Animals." It is an elaborate history of a m.ost remarkable series of 
plants, in many cases accompanied by parisitic animals, found grovving, as 
an ordinary or natural condition, within the interior of the bodies of living 
animals. In some of the latter, it is stated, growing plants are never 
absent ; and in a species of insects, viz : PapiUns Coimuius, a forest of 
vegetation is always found covering the inner surface of the ventriculus or 
second stomach. 

The plants of course are Cryptogamic, and arc algoid in their character. 
Some are as long as half an inch, but usually they are very much smaller. 
They grow attached to the mucous membrane of the cavities in which they 
are found, and occasionally from the exterior covering of worms infestino- 
the same cavities. Several genera and species of these plants are charac- 



[ 108 ] 14 

terized under the names of Eutcrobryus Eles^ans, E. aiienuatus, Arthro- 
mitus cristatus, Cladophytum comaium and Corynocladus radiotus. 

The mode of growth and reproduction of several of the species has been 
carefully traced and fully illustrated by figures. 

The researches are prefaced by some observations on the laws of para- 
sitic life in general, which are presented in a highly philosophical manner, 
and entirely free from- hypothesis — the whole forming one of the most 
remarkable papers on physiology which has ever been produced by our 
countrymen. 

Lieutenant Charles Henry Davis, United States Navy, Superintendent of 
the American Nautical Almanac, has presented a memoir on the dynamic 
effects of the tides. 

This memoir is a continuation of one presented by the author to the 
American Academy a few years ago, and is of much interest, not only in a 
scientific point of view, as connected with important geological changes, 
but also on account of the practical bearings upon the transformations 
which are constantly going on at the entrance of rivers, channels, and 
in the formation of headlands and promontories. Were our globe a 
perfect spheroid of revolution, surrounded by water of uniform depth, 
the tides of the ocean would consist of nearly perpendicular undulations 
of the particles of the liquid, and a mere translation of form, without a 
transference of matter. But, in the case of a globe of irregular surface, 
covered with water of varying depth, the oscillations of the ocean must 
constantly produce currents in definite directions which tend continually 
to change the position of the movable materials which are found at the 
bottom of the sea, particularly as we approach land. A part of the force 
of the particles of water forming the sinking swell of the wave, in the case 
of an obstruction to their free descent by a diminished depth, is expended 
in producing a current along the inclined plane of the surface leading to . 
the shore. 

Lieutenant Davis has entered with much ardor upon the new field of 
research, and after an examination of various parts of the shore of the 
United States, through a series of years, in which he was engaged on the 
coast survey, has succeeded in developing tne laws of action which give 
rise to the changes before mentioned. 

He finds that the tendency of the flood-tine is to transport the matter 
from the bottom of the ocean and deposit it on land. He is enabled to 
explain the character of the alluvial formations, to account for their pecu- 
liar shape, their comparative sizes, their accumulation, and to predict the 
results of certain combinations of circumstances on their future changes. 
The particular object of this memoir is to inquire into the mechanical ope- 
rations of the tides, and the uses they may have served in the general 
economy of the glolie in directing the loose materials of the earth's crust. 

Smithsonian reports and other pxihlications. — Since the last meeting of 
the Board of Regents, the report of Professor Jewett on the public libraries 
of the United States has been published and widely distributed. It is im- 
possible to collect at once full and reliable accounts of all the libraries of 
the country, and this report is intended merely as a beginning, to be fol- 
lowed by others on the same subject. It has been sent to all the libraries 
of the United States, with the request that its deficiencies may be pointed 
out and additional materials furnished to rerwler it more perfect. The 
great interest which is felt in this work is manifested by the amount of sta- 



15 [ 108 ] 

tisticjil infbnnalion ^vhich has already been received in return for this 
volume. 

A report has also heeii puhHshed on the recent improvements in the 
cliemical arts. It is compiled from articles which have appeared during 
the last ten years in the various journals of science and the arts in the Eng- 
lish, French and German languages. Though this report is chiefly intended 
to benefit the ])ractical man, yet it will he found interesting to the general 
reader, as exhibiting the cotemporaneous advance of science and art, and 
the dependence of the latter on the former for the improvement of its most 
important processes. 

The accounts given in the report alluded to do not consist of descriptions 
of methods which have been merely proposed and published without prac- 
tical verification. On the contrary, care has been taken to select such as 
have been actvially tried, or such as offer great probability of success from 
the well-established })rinciples on which they are based. 

The preparation of this report was entrusted to Professor James C 
Booth, assayer of the United States mint at Philadelphia, who associated 
with himself Mr. Campbell Morfit, of Baltimore. The work has been ex- 
ecuted in a manner highly creditable to the authors, and will, I doubt not, 
prove very acceptable to the public. Notes will be made of the new 
inventions of the same class, as they appear in the journals, so that in the 
course of a few years another report of a similar kind, or one wdiich may 
be considered a continuation of this, can be published. 

Copies, at the mere cost of printing, paper and commission, are offered 
for sale. The matter has been stereotyped, in order to supply all the de- 
mand, and to reproduce this member of the series, should the subject be con- 
tinued. 

The progress of the elaborate report on the forest trees of North America, 
mentioned in the last two reports, was for some time arrested by the ab- 
sence of the author. Dr. Gray, in Europe. He has now, however, returned, 
and will resume the preparation of the drawings, as soon as the funds of the 
Institution will admit of the expenditure. This work has proved a more 
expensive undertaking thanw^asat first anticipated, and can only be finished 
on the original plan, by extending the time of its publication over several 
years. It will form a valuable contribution to the botany and economical 
and ornamiCntal arts of our country. 

Dr. F. G. Melsheimer, of Dover, Pennsylvania, has presented to the In- 
stitution a catalogue of the Coleopterous insects of North America, with 
references to the principal places of description. This has been put to 
press, but progresses slowly on account of the great care necessary in cor- 
recting the proofs. When printed, it will be of great service to the cause 
of American entomology. 

Besides the reports, other works are m progress, among which may be 
mentioned a small volume by Professor Baird, consisting of practical direc- 
tions for the collection and preservation of specimens of Natural History. 
This will be illustrated with numerous figures, and issued as soon as the 
engravings can be procured. A part of the letter-press has been finished. 
It is especially designed for the use of travellers and ofhcers of the Army 
and Navy who may be inclined to make collections for the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, but will be of general interest to the cultivators of Natural History. 
A volume of tables of use in Meteorology and other branches of scientific 
observations, has been prepared, under the direction and at the expense of the 



[ 108 ] 16 

Institution, by Professor Arnold Guyot. The following are the contents of 
this volume, viz : 

1. Thermometrical tables for the conversion of the scales of different 
thermometers into each other. 

2. Hygrometrical tables giving the elastic force of vapor, the relative 
humidity &c. 

3. Barometrical tables for the comparisons of different scales, reduction 
of observations to the freezing point, and correction for capillary action. 

4. Hypsometrical tables for calculating altitudes by the barometer, and 
by the difference of the boiling point. 

5. Tables of the corrections to be applied to the monthly means to obtain 
the true mean. 

6. A set of miscellaneous tables frequently required in physical investiga- 
tions. 

These tables Supply a desideratum in the English language, and will 
doubtless be highly prized by all engaged in physical research. It is pro- 
posed to extend their number so as to include a wider range of objects, and 
to publish them in parts to suit different purposes. Copies will be dis- 
tributed Vv'ith the quarto volumes of our publications, and sent to meteoro- 
logical observers. The tables have been stereotyped and may therefore be 
offered for sale at a low rate. 

Since the date of the last report, a number of separate memoirs have been 
boimd together so as to form the second volume of the series of Smithsonian 
Contributions. The memoirs, an account of which has just been given, 
will be ready for distribution during 1852. 

The second volume has been forwarded to all the colleges and other 
institutions specified in the rules adopted for the distribution of the Smith- 
sonian publications in this country, and to all the first class libraries and 
principal literary and scientific societies abroad. Through the liberality of 
the members of the Senate of the United States and its officers, we have 
been enabled to send to our foreign correspondents, in addition to our own 
publications, copies of reports to Congress, and other works published at 
the expense of ^government. In return, the Institution has received a series 
of flattering acknowledgements and valuable presents, not only of the cur- 
rent numbers of transactions, but in several instances, of entire sets of all 
the volumes. 

The promotion of knowledge is much retarded by the difficulties ex- 
perienced in the way of a free intercourse between scientific and literary 
societies in different parts of the world. In carrying on the exchange of 
the Smithsonian volumes, it was necessary to appoint a number of agents. 
Some of these are American consuls, and other respectable individuals, who 
have undertaken in most cases to transact the business free of all charge, 
and in others for but little more than the actual expense incurred. These 
agencies being established, other exchanges could be carried on through 
them, and our means of conveyance, at the slight additional expense owing 
to the small increase of weight ; and we have accordingly offered the 
privilege of sending and receiving small packages through our agency to 
institutions of learning, and in some cases to individuals \\'hio choose to avail 
themselves of it. The offer has been accepted by a number of institutions, 
and the result can not fail to prove highly beneficial, by promoting a more 
ready communion between the literature and sfiiente of this country and 
the world abroad. 



I'T [ 108 ] 

As a part of the same system, application was inado llirough Sir Hcmy 
Bulwer, the British minister at Washington, for a remission of duties on 
packages intended for Great Britain, and we are informed that a permanent 
arrangement will probably be made, through the agency of the Royal 
Society, for the free passage through the English custom-house, of all 
jiackagcs from this Institution. 

The Smithsonian exchanges are under tlie special charge of Professor 
Baird, who has been unwearied in his exertions to collect proper materials, 
and to reduce the whole to such order as will combine security with rapidity 
of transmission. 

The system of exchange here described has no connection with that 
established between national governments by Mr. Vattemare. It is merely 
an extension of one which has been in operation on a small scale for nearly 
half a century between the American Philosophical Society and the Ameri- 
can Academy on this side of the Atlantic, and the several scientific societies 
on the other. 

Ancient Monuments. — The success of the first m.emoir published by the 
Smithsonian Institution has awakened much attention to American antiqui- 
ties, and a number of communications have been submitted on this subject. 
Among these is one by Mr. William Pidgeon, of Virginia, who has spent a 
number of years in the exploration of mounds, and other ancient remains, 
on the upper branches of the Mississip])i. 

The results of his labors are of a vei-y interesting character, though the 
facts contained in his memoir are too much minsfled with the traditions re- 
ceived by hun from the Indians, and Vv'ith his own hypotheses, to be accepted 
as a part of the Smithsonian Contributions. After repeated conversations with 
Mr. Pidgeon, I was clearly of opinion that his reseaiches ought to be given 
to the public in some way, in order that his statements might receive due 
attention, and be corroborated or disproved by other explorers ; and I am 
pleased to be able to state that a gentleman of Washington has undertaken 
to arrange and edit these researches, and that they will be published in a sep- 
erate volume for the benefit of the authors. 

We have also received communications relative to mounds from Mr. 
Charles Whittlesey of Ohio, from Mr. Titian R. Peale of Washington, and 
Mr. William E. Guest of Ogdensburg, New York. The first of these may 
be considered as supplementary to the memoir of Messrs. Squier and Davis, 
describing works omitted in their survey. The second gives a plan and 
description of tlie mounds which formerly existed on the present site of 
St. Louis, Missouri, made during the visit of Major Long's party in 1849 
to that country, on their way to the Rocky mountains. This sketch is now 
interesting on account of the fact that, in the rapid progress of improvement, 
these mounds have been nearly obliterated, and that they can only be pre- 
served to science, as they existed more than thirty years ago, by this publi- 
cation. 

The third is an account, with drawings, of ancient works at Prescot, in 
Canada west. The great size of the remains of trees which occupy the 
ground, evince the long time which must have elapsed since these works 
were constructed, and the entire absence of stone pipes and arrow heads has 
induced the belief that they are of a higher antiquity than those in the Ohio 
valley. 

The last two contributions will form a single memoir, the plates for which 
are partially completed. 



[ 108 ] 18 

But the most interesting circumstance connected with the study of the 
ancient remains of this country is a recent action of the American Antiqua- 
rian Society of Worcester, Massachusetts. This institution was founded in 
18 [2 by the zeal and liberaUty of Isaiah Thomas, for the purpose of collect- 
ing and preserving- such manuscripts, pamphlets and other articles as relate 
to the history of this country, and for the exploration and publication of its 
antiquities. It v/as at the expense of this society that the original re- 
searches of Mr. Atwater, on the mounds of the Ohio valley, w^ere first pub- 
lished, and during tlie last two years the condition of its funds has again 
enabled it to take the field, and to direct its attention to the remarkable 
antiquities in the State of Wisconsin. 

These antiquities, it is well known, consist of representations, on a gigan- 
tic scale, of birds, beasts and fishes, and though many of them have been 
surveyed, and accounts of them given in the memoir of Messrs. Squier and 
Davis, comparatively lev/ of those which are said to exist have been explored 
or delineated. For this reason, the council of the society have engaged Mr. 
I. A. Lapham, an experienced engineer, to make explorations and surveys, 
and drawings of these mounds. He has been engaged in these operations 
for two seasons, and is now employed in making up an account of his labors. 

To insure harmony of action in the cultivation of the wide field of re- 
search offered in the investigations of the ancient monuments of this coun- 
try, the Antiquarian Society has agreed to present to the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution the results of the explorations of Mr. Lapham for publication, <nd 
to reserve its limited funds for further explorations. The memoirs will be 
examined and revised by the society, and will be published under its auspices 
in the Smithsonian Contributions. 

This arrangement is another pleasing evidence of the feeling with w^hich 
the efforts of this Institution are regarded, and the willingness with Avhich 
other institutions co-operate with it in the important work of promoting 
original knowledge. 

Explorations, Researches, ifc. — During the last year several minor 
explorations have been made in the line of natural history, partly at the 
expense of the Institution. The sum of fifty dollars w^as appropriated to 
Professor C. E. Adams, of Amherst College, to pay in part his expenses 
while making collections in the West Indies and Panama. For the sum 
advanced, an ample return has been made in new and rare specimens. 
Professor Baird and Mr. Cliarles Girard have also made explorations which 
have added to the collections of the Institution at a cost little beyond tliat 
of the expense of transportation. 

In this connexion I may mention that Professor Baird has contributed 
the report on the vertebrate animals collected by Captain Stansbury in his 
expedition to the Salt Liike region, and facilities have been given at the 
Institution to a number of persons in making'- scientific reports to Congress. 

A series of experiments also have been made in our laboratory by a com- 
mission appointed by government to examine the stone proposed for the 
extension of the Capitol. It is believed that the Institution may, in the 
aid it affords the government in scientific operations, more than repay all 
the obligation imposed by the acceptance of the Smithsonian trust. 

It was mentioned in the last report, that the specimens which were pro- 
cured by Mr. Culbertson from the Upper Missouri, had been referred to 
Dr. Joseph Leidy, of Philadelphia, for examination. He has since made a 
report (see Appendix) givhig a brief statement of the results of his inves- 



!9 [ 108 J 

tigatioii. From this report i( appears that the specimens are of much 
scientific interest, showing as they do, for the first time, the existence in 
this country of an eocene deposite, rivaling in the number of its species of 
extinct animals the celebrated basin of Paris. 

Occultations. — It has been mentioned in the preceding reports, that lists 
of occultations, and tables of reductions, have been published, from 1848 to 
1851, inclusive. The cost of the computation of these tables, as well as 
that of their publication for the past two years, was borne by the Institu- 
tion, but since then Congress has ordered the establishment of an American 
Nautical Almanac; and as these tables will form a part ot this ephemeris, 
Mr. Preston, the late Secretary of the Navy, directed that the expense of 
the computation should be defrayed from the appropriation for the Almanac, 
the printing and distribution to be at the charge of the Institution. A 
similar order has been given bv the Hon. Wm. A. Graham, the present 
Secretary of the Navy, relative to the tables for 1851 and 1852. 

The tables for 1852, are much extended by the introduction of occulta- 
tions visible in every part of the earth. The form is also somewhat altered 
in order better to achipt it to the arrangement to be adopted by the Nautical 
Almanac. 

The primary object of these tables is to facilitate the accurate determi- 
nation of the longitude of places within the territory of the United States, 
and in this respect they have done good service, especially in the hands of 
the oificers of the coast survey, and the explorers and surveyors of our new 
possessions on the coast of the Pacific. Their extension will render them 
useful to geographers in every part of the world. They have been com- 
puted, for the present and the last two years, under the direction of Lieut. 
Davis, the accomplished superintendent of the American Nautical Almanac. 
As soon as this work, which will be an honor to the country, is ready to be 
issued, the publication will be relinquished by the Smithsonian Institution. 

We observe again, in this case, the policy of not expending the funds of 
the Institution, in doing what other means can accomplish. 

It will recollected that Mr. Sears C. Walker, astronomical assistant of 
the United States coast survey, ])repared for the Smithsonian Transactions 
a memoir containing a determination of the true orbit of the planet Nep- 
tune, and that from this orbit, and the mathematical investigations of Pro- 
fessor Pierce, an ephemeris of Neptune was compiled. The ephemeris was 
])repare(l for the yeais 1848 and 1849, under the direction and at the expense 
of this Institution, but for the years l850-'51-'52, it was computed under 
the superintendence of Lieutenant Davis, and at the ex])ense of the appro- 
priation for the Nautical Almanac, while the cost of j^rinting and of the 
distribution has been defrayed by the Institution. 

The ephemeris has been generally adopted by the princijial astronomers 
of tiie world, and Professor Airy, the astronomer royal of Great Uritain, 
has undertaken the labor, in his last volume of Greenwich Observations, of 
critically comparing his observations on the ])Ianet in the hea^ens with the 
predictions of the Smithsonian ephemeris. From these .comparisons it is 
found that the ephemeris gives the position of the planet with a degree of 
precision not inferior to that with which the ])laces of the planets longest 
known are calculated. The labors, tlierefore, of Mr. Walker on the elements, 
and Professor Pierce on the theory of the planet Neptune, have been 
crowned with complete success. It is proposed hereafter to collect all the 



[ 108 ] 20 

observations which may have been made on tlie planet, and compare them 
with the ephemeris, in order, if necessary, still further to correct the orbit. 

Meteorology. — The general system of meteorology now in operation in 
this country, and described in the last report, has during the past year been 
continued and gradually extended. The instruments constructed under the 
direction of the Institution, with the aid of Professor Guyot, have beenfurther 
improved, and some slight changes, indicated by experience, have been made 
to render them more convenient to the practical obserA'er and they may 
now be considered not only equal in accuracy to the instruments of the best 
construction from abroad, but in some respects superior. They are furnished 
with the means of ready adjustment to the standard instruiiients, and being 
in every i:istance accurately compared before they are used, and the error 
corrected, tlie labor of inserting a correction in the journal is avoided. New 
efforts have also been made to obtain a still more accurate comparison be- 
tween the standard barometer of this country and those of the more impor- 
tant European observatories. For this purpose a second standard barometer 
by NeWman, compared with the standard of the Royal Society, and a ba- 
rometer by Ernst, compared with the standard of the Paris observatory, 
were ordered at the expense of the Institution. By a long series of com- 
parisons between these two instruments and others at Cambridge, (Massa- 
chusetts,) Toronto, (Canada West,) and Washington city, the object sought 
has, it is believed, been obtained. The thermometers ^Iso, constructed by 
Mr. Green, of New York, for the Institution, have been compared with 
European standards, and an important step has thus been made towards 
obtaining reliable results as to the absolute meteorological elements of the 
different parts of this continent. 

It was stated in the last report that the regents of the university of New 
York had made an appropriation for supplying thirty-three academies in 
that State with instruments, and had given the establishment of the whole 
system in charge to this Institution. The State of Massachusetts has also 
made a similar appropriation and arrangement. During the past year the 
instruments for this State have been constructed, and a part of the stations 
established under the care of Prf)fessor Guyot. 

At the last meeting of the American association, a report was made, and a 
series of resolutions adopted, (see appendix) for extending the system of obser- 
vations with the same instruments to other parts of this continent. These 
resolutions directed the committee to memorialize Congress for aid in ex- 
tending the system under the direction of this Institution ; to request the 
Secretary of the Treasury to provide for making observations at the several 
light-houses to be established on the coast of California ; to ask the sur- 
geon-general to establish vew stations at important points; to memorialize 
the other States of the Union to follow the example of New York and 
Massachusetts, and also the Canadian government to cooperate in the 
same enterprise. 

What m.ay be the result of the labors of the members of the committee 
to which this duty is entrusted, it is impossible to say. They can scarcely 
fail, however, to awaken a more general interest in the enterprise, and to 
receive a favorable response to some of the requests. 

Since the date of the last report, the system particularly intended to 
investigate the nature of American storms, nnmediately under the care of 
this Institution, has been continued and improved, both in the number of 
the stations, and, in some degree, in the character of the instruments. An 



21, [ 108 ] 

apj)ropriatioii was made lo I'urnish a larger number at stations than previ- 
ously with barometers and thermometers, by distributing these instruments 
in some cases entirely at the expense of the Institution, and in others by 
selling them to the observers at half their original cost ; but the demand 
was so great, and the loss !)y breakage in transmitting the instruments so 
frequent, that the appropriiitions were soon exhausted, and until we can 
alford to devote a large sum to the object, and employ a special agent to 
ti-ansport the articles to their destination, it will be inadvisable to attempt 
anything more in this way. 

Though the instruments employed by these observers in some cases can 
not be relied on for giving absolute results, yet they serve a good purpose 
in determining changes of pressure and temperature, and the returns give 
all the varying phases of the sky. 

Thus far, the returns which have been received from this system have 
heen arranged in folio volumes, and a beginning has been made in the way 
of deducing general conclusions from them, which may test the value of 
the observations and lead to their improvement by suggesting other objects 
of inquiry. The results already obtained give promise of interesting and 
valuable atklitions to our knowledo-e of the nature of the storms which tra- 
verse this continent during the winter seasons, and will probably serve to 
settle definitely several theoretical questions of much interest to the meteor- 
ologist. 

The meteorological correspondence of the Institution is principally at- 
tended to by Professor Foreman, and the labor which this involves is suffi- 
cient to occupy the greater portion of his time. The letters received from 
this class of cooperators are not confined to the subject of meteorology, 
but include the whole domain of physical science. We consider it, as 
before observed, a duty in all such cases to give the information required ; 
and if this is not in the possession of the officers connected with the Insti- 
tution, it is procured from other sources. 

For the details as to the management of the meteorological affairs of 
the Institution, see Professor Foreman's report on this subject. 

Library and Colledions. — It will be recollected that the income of the 
Institution was, by a compromise alluded to in a former report, to be divided 
into two equal parts, one part to be ilevoted to the formation of a museum, 
a library and a gallery of art, and the other to publications, researches and 
other active operations. The terms of this compromise have been ligidly 
adhered to, as will f)e seen l>y a reference to the general statement of ac- 
counts given in the last report, lip to the date of the appointment of Pro- 
fessor l^nird, in July, 1S50, the part of the income devoted to the .collections 
was expended on the library, or on objects pertaining to it. Since that 
time, a portion has been devoted to the museum. 

It is proper to remark that tliis compromise was founded upon another, 
namely, that the cost of the building and furniture should be limited to 
two hundred and fifty thousand dollars. But in order to the better security 
of the collecti;)ns, the regents have since found it necessary to add, in round 
numbers, fifty tliousand dollars to this sum, v.'hich must of course diminish the 
income which would otlierwise have been devoted to the active ojierations. 

It is evident that one spirit, if possible, should pervade the whole organi- 
zation, and that the same policy should be adopted with reference to all 
)) nts of the plan. Among the miiyiras which have been acted upon, that 



[ 1<}8 J 22 

of occupying ground untenanted by other institutions, and of doing nothing 
with the funds which can be equally well accomplished by other means, 
has commended itself to the intelligent and reflecting portion of the public ; 
and it has always appeared to me that this is as applicable to the formation 
of collections of books and specimens, as to the publications and other ope- 
rations of the Institution. 

With reference to the library, the idea ought never be entertained that 
the portioji of the limited income of the Smithsonian fund which can be de- 
voted to the purchase of books, will ever be sufficient to meet the wants of 
the American scholar. On the contrary, it is the duty of this Institution to 
increase those wants by pointing out new fields for exploration, and by 
stimulating other researches than those which are now cultivated. It is a 
part of that duty to make the value of libraries more generally known, and 
their want in this country more generally felt; to show in what branches 
of knowledge our libraiies are most deficient; to point out the means by which 
those deficiencies can be supplied ; to instruct the public in the best methods 
of procuring, arranging, cataloguing and preserving books ; to give infor- 
mation as to the best form and construction of library buildings; in short, to 
do all which was originally intended in the plan of rendering the Institution 
a centre of bibliographical knowledge, to which the American scholar can 
refer for all information relative to books in general, and particularly to 
those in our own country. The libraries of the country must be supplied 
by the country itself; by the general government; by the State govern- 
ments; by cities, towns and villages; and by wealthy and liberal individuals. 
It is to be hoped that in the restoration of the library of Congress, a foun- 
dation will be laid for a collection of books worthy of a govenunent whose 
perpetuity principally depends on the intelligence of the people. 

The proper management of books, and general instruction as to their use, 
are matters perhaps of more importance than their accumulation in any one 
j)hice. It is estimated that about twenty thousand volumes, including pam- 
jthlets, purporting to be additions to the sum of human knowledge, are pub- 
lished annually; and unless this mass be properly arj-anged, and the means 
furnished by Avhich its contents may be ascertained, literatuie and science 
will be oveiwiielmed by their own unwieldy bulk. The pile \\ill begin to 
totter und(>r itst)v/n weight, and all the additions we may heap upon it 
will tcntl to add to the extension of the base, without increasing the elevation 
and dignity of the edifice. 

One of the most important means of facilitating the use of libraries, par- 
ticularly with reference to science, is well digested indexes of subjects, not 
merely referring to volumes or books, but to memoirs, papers, and parts of 
scientific transactions and systematic works. As an example of this, I 
would refer to the admirably arranged and valuable index to natural phi- 
losophy and the mechanical arts by Dr. Young. "If my library were on 
fire," said a celebrated author, " and I could save but one scientific book, 
it would be Dr. Yoang's index." This work comes down to ]807 ; and I 
know of no richer gift which could be bestowed upon the science of our 
own day tlian the continuation of this index to the present time. Every 
one who is desirous of enlarging the bounds of human knowledge should, in 
justice to himself, as well as to the public, be acquainted with what has pre- 
viously been done in the same line, and this he vvill only he enabled to ac- 
complish by the use (;i indexes ot the kind above mentioned. 

The most important operation during the past year relative to the library, 



41*^ 



L108] 



Is the progress made by Professor Jewell in eoinnleliiio- his plan of stereo- 
typing catalogues with separate titles, described in llie last report. 

To reduce this plan to practice a series of original experiments were re- 
quired, involving the expenditure ol" much time and labor. For this purpose, 
in preference to the usual method of stereotyping, a new one, invented 
by Mr. Josiah Warren, of Indiana, has been adopted on the recommendation 
of a committee to whom it was referred for examination. It is a fact well 
known to inventois, that however simple the theoretical plan of effecting 
a desired object may appear, a series of unforeseen difiicuties must be en- 
countered in the details, before the idea can be realized m actual results. 
These difficulties, in the present case, it is believed have been overcome, and 
the plan is nov*'" ready to be applied to the formation of a general and uni- 
form catalogue of the libraries of the country. The course proposed is 
first to proceed with the catalogues of the library of the institution in ac- 
cordance with the rules recommendeil by the commission appointed to re- 
port on this subject. This, stereotyped by the new^ process, may be dis- 
tributed as a model lor the other libraries which may adopt the plan. After 
all parts of the plan have thus been thoroughly tried, it will be desirable to 
commence on some large collection. The late accident which has happened 
to the library of Congress will induce the necessity of a new catalogue, 
and it is hoped that a liberal and enlightened policy will lead to the adoption 
of the Smithsonian plan. This will not only enable tlic government to issue, 
at a trifling expense, a new catalogue every year, with all the additions in 
their proper place, but also to assist in giving to the country an improved 
system of cataloguing, and facihtate the production of a general catalogue 
of all the libraries of the country. 

Since the publication of the account of Mr. Jewett's plan of forming 
general catalogues, the invention has been claimed separately by two indi- 
viduals in Europe. It is true, the want of such a plan lias long been felt, 
and a general idea may have been conceived as to how it might be accom- 
plished, but no attempts have been made to reduce it to practice, and indeed 
liad they been made, they could not have succeeded, and would have done 
injury to the cause. The conditions necessary to success never before ex- 
isted, and a premature attempt always tends to lessen public confidence in 
an enterprise, when the proper time for its actual ac^complislnnent arrives. 
Besides this, there is a wide difference between the mere susxsestino; the 

... , ... Op p 

possibility of apian, and actually overcoming the difficulties which arise at 
every step in reducing it to practice. 

With reference to the copyright law, something ought to be done to put 
the whole matter on a better footing. I repeat the assertion before made, 
that this law, as it now exists, in^poses a tax on the Institution, without an 
adequate return. The great majority of the books received are such as are 
found in almost every public and private library ; but very few of them 
would ever be purchased by the Institution, and are consequently dear at 
any price, even that of shelf-room and attendance, not to mention cost of 
tranjsj)ortation and of furnishing the certificates. 

Granting tlie proposition that it is important a copy of every book origi- 
nally published in this country should be somewhere preserved, it does not 
follow that the Smithsonian fund ought to be burdened with the expense 
of this charge. 

If they should be preserved, it becomes the duty of Congress to provide 
for their care, as much as it does for that of the models of the Patent Office, 



[ 108 ] S4 

itnd no good reason cai) be assigned why (he one should not he imposed upon 
the Institution as well as the other. Indeed, models are a species of books 
intended to convey ideas which printing cannot impart. 

The objection to the present arrangement may be obviated by adopting 
the sugo-estion of Professor Jewett, that but one copy, instead of three, of 
each book, be sejit to Washington for deposite, and that in place of the 
other tv.'o copies, a small fee be paid to the Institution, sufficient to defray 
all expenses; the maxim again being applied of not expending the funds in 
doing that which can and ouglit to be (ione by other means. 

By reference to the report of the Librarian, it wall be seen that the col- 
lection of books has continued to be increased by purchase, by copyright 
and by exchange. From the last mentioned source the Institution is ob- 
taining a most valuable series of books of the highest interest to the 
scientific student, consisting principally of the transactions a.m\ proceedings 
of learned societies. In a few years, it is believed, as complete a collection 
of these will be gathered as it is possible to obtain. 

The museum is to consist, according to the law of Congress, and the 
terms 'of the compromise, of "objects of art, of foreign and curious 
research and of natural history, of plants and geological and mineralogical 
specimens." It would, hov.-ever, be unwise in the Institution to attempt 
the formation of full collections of all these objects, or, in other words, to 
form an establishmacnt similar to that of the British museum. The whole 
income devoted to this object would be entirely inadequate. The portion 
of the main building appropriated to the museum consists of a single room 
two hundred feet long by fifty feet v^-ide. This space may be entirely filled 
in the course of three years, without the purchase of a single article, if the 
means be adopted which present themselves at the seat of government for 
making collections. But when this space is filled the accumulation of speci- 
mens must oease, or an addition be made to the building, which, to har- 
monize with the present edifice, would involve a large expenditure. The 
question then arises, from what source is this money to be obtained ? It 
cannot be derived from the annual income of the capital, for this would 
cripple the more important operations. It may be said that Congress 
v;iil famish the means ; but this is relying on a very uncertain source, and 
the policy of applying to Congress for any aid is doubtful. 

Furthermore, a promiscuous collection, embracing full sets of the objects 
above specified, is unnecessary in carrying out the plan of organization of 
the Institution. 

For example, the organic remains brought from the upper Missouri by 
Culbertson, have been examined and reported on by Dr. Leidy, of Philadel- 
phia, in that city; and the plants from California and Mexico have been re- 
ferred to Dr. Torrey at Princeton, and to Dr. Gray at Cambridge. In this 
way, not only has the learning of these gentlemen been brought into requi- 
sition, hut also their special cabinets rendered subservient to our use. The 
cooperation of the learning and talent, as well as the use of the libraries 
and collections of the whole country, is an essential feature of the jilan 
and ought not to be lost sight of. 

I would, however, distinctly disavow the iiitention of underrating the 
importance of collections in themselves. On the contrary, it ought to be 
the duty of the Smithsonian Institution to point out the msans by which 
they may be made, and to aid in the work, to t]ie extent of its ability, by 



25 [ 108 ] 

embracing all opporUinltios which may offer Tor procurino- specimens for 
(hstrihulion, and by facilitating- exchange and assisting explorations. 

Though the formation of a general collection is neither within the 
means nor the province of the Institution, it is an object which ought to 
engage the attention of Congress. A general museum appears to be a 
necessary estabhshraent at the seat of government of every civilized nation. 
The navy, the army, and the whole corps of commercial and diplomatic 
agents in foreign countries, all consider it their duty to send to the seat of 
government of their ovv'n nation, every object which may serve to improve 
or to interest the people. Indeed the government of the United States has 
already formed the micleus of such a museum m the collections now in the 
Patent Office. An establishment of this kind can only be supported by 
government, and the proposition ought never to be encouraged of putting 
this duty on the limited though liberal bequest of a foreigner. The Smith- 
sonian Institution will readily take the mental direction of an establishment 
of this kind, give })lans for its organization and arrangement, provided it 
be requested to do so, and the means for effecting the object be lilierally 
supplied. 

I make these remarks with reference to the collections, because I am 
fully impressed with the fact that the tendency of the Institution will be to 
a statical condition, in which the income will be absorbed in the support 
and accommodation of objects of a doubtful or contingent value. There 
is even danger in receiving donations from individuals. The articles may 
be valuable in part, but may consist also of much which the institution 
cannot well afford to keep. Besides this, it is extremely difficult to dis- 
charge, acceptably, the duty of the curator of property thus acquired. 
Since the house-room and the income of the Institution for the accommoda- 
tion and support of collections are limited, great care must be exercised in 
the choice of the articles, and preference given to those which are of im- 
portance in determining problems of interest, and which give promise of the 
ready pioduction of new and interesting results. 

For a detailed account of the additions to the museum during the past 
year, and the present state of the collections, I must refer to Professor 
Baird's report herewith presented. 

In an appendix to this will be found a list of the donations, with the 
names of the donors alphabetically arranged. These consist principally of 
specimens not generally found in other collections, and though they may 
not be very attractive to ordinaiy visitors, the student of natural history 
will find in them much of interest. 

The circular prepared by Professor Baird, describing the method o( col- 
lecting and preparing specimens, and indicating objects especially desirable, 
hiis proved effective in [)rociiring important contributions. 

Among the objects which should be collected and }ireservcd wi(h care, 
are the remains of the specimens of the arts of the aboriginal inhabitants 
of this country, the contents of mounds, and the stone implements found 
on the surface of the earth. The implements and industrial products of 
llie j)resent tribes of Indians should also be gathered as the materials for 
the advance of the new and interesting science of ethnology. Of the con- 
tents of mounds, but a limited amount of specimens exist, and as these are 
not, like the spontaneous productions of nature, constantly in the process 
of reproiiuclioii, (ivcry article should be diligently sought for, and carefully 
preserved. Some additions have been made to the collections in this line. 



[ 108 ] 26 

The museum of natural history, besides plants and minerals, numbers 
eighteen hundred and fifty jars, containing specimens in spirits, of mammalia, 
reptiles, fishes, articulata, molluscaand radiata, amounting in all to twenty- 
five hundred species. Besides these, there are about nine hundred specimens 
of skulls and skeletons, and three thousand of skins of European and 
American birds. 

Lecture!^. — In accordance with the suggestion contained in the act of 
incorporation of the Institution, courses of lectures have been given during 
the past year in the lecture-room of the Smithsonian building, and the 
reports of these lectures are generally copied in the public papers through- 
out the Union. Though the plan of diffusing knowledge by means of lec- 
tures is too restricted in its influence to meet fully the liberal views of the 
Smithsonian bequest, yet there is no }")lace in the United States where such 
means will have a tendency to affect more minds and do more good than in 
the city of Washington, where persons from all parts of the country 
assemble during the sessions of Congress. It was supposed, at first, that the 
interest in these lectures would soon die away ; but the experience of three 
years has indicated no t<?ndency of this kind. This is in part owing to the 
constant influx of strangers and change of inhabitants. Besides this, there 
is in this city, in proportion to the whole number of inhabitants, a large 
number of intelligent persons with moderate salaries, who gladly avail 
themselves of the means of improvement offered by the gratuitous lectures 
of the Institution. 

As an evidence of the high aj>preclation of the advantages which these 
lectures afford the citizens of Washington, I may mention that the corpo- 
ration of the cily has ordered, since the last meeting of the board, a bridge 
to be constructtHl over the canal at Tenth street, for the special accommo- 
dation of those who attend the evening instruction given at the Institution. 
This bridge, with a well-drained and well-lighted path across the public 
grounds, vdll afford a direct and comfortable approach to the building from 
a central point on Pennsylvania avenue. 

In my last report I mentioned the fact that much complaint had been 
made through the public papers on account of the size of the lecture-room. 
It was the original intention of the Regents to construct a lecture-room in 
the main building, though, according to the plan proposed, the number of 
persons it would hold would scarcely have been greater thanthat now accom- 
modated. This plan, however, was thought to be unsafe, because it was 
at first not proposed to fire-proof the interior ; but since, an opposite course 
has been resolved upon, a large lecture-room may with safety be con- 
structed in the main building, and the present lecture-room, having tempo- 
rarily served the purpose, may be applied to other uses. 

The proper construction of a lecture-room is, however, a problem of 
great difficulty, which in the present instance will be much enhanced by 
the form and peculiarities of the building. It must be well-adapted to 
sight, to sound, to ventilation and warming. A room might be constructed 
which woidd seat five thousand persons; but we know of none such, in every 
part of which an ordinary speaker can be distinctly heard. Too much 
must therefore not be expected with reference to the new lecture-room, 
though every endeavor will be made to render it as perfect as the conditions 
to which it is unavoidably subjected will allow. 

The selection of the lecturers, and the arrangement of the courses, have 
been found, in some cases, an unpleasant and perplexing duty. The gen- 



27 [108] 

tlemen invited, as a general rule, have been men of high standing, and have 
been chosen on account of their reputation and moral worLli, rather than 
with reference to their proficiency in the art of rhetoric. It is not the aim 
of the Institution in these lectures merely to please the ear, but to impart 
important truths which may be vakied for their own sake. 

Many applications have been made for the use of the lecture-room of the 
Institution for pay lectures and exhibitions of a private charactei", but these 
have in all cases been refused. The use of the room has, however, on seve- 
ral occasions been given to the faculty of Colund>ia College, and also for 
the meetings of the Teacher's Association of tlu* District of Columbia. 
The organization of this association took place in llie Smithsonian buibling 
in 1850, and its meetings have been regularly held in the lecture-room from 
that time to the jiresent. It is believed that the spirit of the will of Smith- 
son is properly consulted, in giving encouragement anrl rendering facilities 
to these meetings. The association has been kept up with much spirit, and 
I am sure that much good has resulted from the organization. It has 
served to cherish a feeling of harmony among the teachers, and to av.-aken 
a spirit of improvement relative to education and general knowledge. 

The following is a list of the titles of lectures given before the institution 
during the last session of Congress, with the names of the gentlemen by 
whom they were delivered : 

A course of six lectures on History as a science, and a single one on Poclry, by Dr. 
Samuel H. Cox, of Brooklyn, New York. 

Two lectures on Induction and Association, by Ur. Jolni Ludlow, Provoyt of tlie Univer- 
sity of Pennsylvania. 

A course of five lectures on Entomology, and one uii tlie Alps, liy Ucv. Dr. .John G. 
Morris, of Baltimore, Maryland. 

Two lectures on the History and the Forms of the English Language, by Professor Vv'. C 
Fowler, of Amherst, Massachusetts. 

One lecture on the Architecture of tin; Middle Ages, by Dr. A. H. Vinton, ol Boston. 

Two lectures l)y Professor S. S. Haldeman, of Columbia, Pennsylvania, on the Mechanism 
of Speech, and its bearing upon the natural history of the human r;ice. 

Two lectures on Geology, by Dr. Benjamin Silliman, Sr., of Yale College. New Haven. 



REPORT 

OF 

THE ASSISTAIT SECRETARY 

IN 

CHARGE OF THE LIBRARY. 

presentp:d December, 18.51. 



[108] 



30 



To the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Sir : In compliance with iny official duty, 1 ])resent to you, at this time, 
a report upon the affairs of the library during the year ISol. 

The following table shows the number of books and other articles, which 
have been received since the last annual report: 



Sources. 


Books. 


Pampli- 
lels. 


Engra- 
vings. 


Maps. 


Music. 


Draw- 
ings. 


Other 
articles. 


Totals. 




414 

549 
489 


5 

618 

47 












419 














1,107 


Copv-risclits 




9 


573 





21 


1,189 






Total 


1,452 


670 




9 


573 





21 


2,725 







Adding these suras to the aggregates of the last year, we obtain the follow- 
ing table, exhibiting the whole number of books and other articles at pre- 
sent belonging to the library, and the sources from which they have been 
received . 



Sources. 


Books. 


Pamph- 
lets. 


Engra- 
vings. 


Maps. 


Music. 


Draw- 
ings. 


Other 
articles. 


Totals. 




3,232 
1,176 

1,828 
873 


39 

1,937 

117 


*1,335 

48 

9 


2 

27 
41 






4,608 


Donations 


30 

1,134 67 


3,218 


Copy-rights 


3,196 


Depositcs 


873 


j 


1 1 




Total 


7,109 


2,093 


1,392 


70 


1,134 


30 67 


11,895 



The purchases have been few, and limited to works required for immedi- 
ate use. Until the completion of our building and the appropriation of all 
the funds of the Institution to their permanent objects, the increase of tlie 
library from this source must continue to be small. The books which are 
needed for immediate use must of course be procured, if possible, at what- 
ever cost ; but with respect to all other works, it will doubtless be well to 
allow our funds to accumulate, in order to make a more considerate purchase 
when more favorable opportunities may occur. 

The manner of buying books, a few at a time, in this country, is inordi- 
nately expensive. The saving liy purchases through a competent agent at 
the book auctions and antiquarian shops of Europe, should not be reckoned 
by a per centage ; it is rather the obtaining of books for a half or a quarter 
of the price which they would cost through the legular channels of the 
importation trade. 

The number of books received by exchange has been considerably larger 
than it was during the preceding year. The books are, too, of a valuable 
class, consisting mostly of the current publications of learned societies in 
Europe and America. In some cases, comple'te sets of these publications 



31 [ 108 ] 

have been received. Doubtless, many more \voi]l(l be olitaineil, could more 
direct application l)e made lor them. 

The number of books received under the copyright law has gradually 
increased each year, but does not yet include more than half for which copy- 
rights are secured in the United States. In my previous reports I have re- 
peatedly alluded to this subject. It seems to me very important that it 
should receive the particular attention of the Board of Regents at the pre- 
sent time. Existing laws respecting the deposit of copies of books and other 
articles for which copyrights are secured, have failed almost entirely to fulfil 
the intentions of Congress. Authors and publishers complain of injustice. 
The demands of literature are not answered. The institutions intended to 
be benefited find the boon to be of very doubtful value. In short, no one 
of the parties interested is satisfied with the law in its present condition. 
The committee of the board, to whom was referred a special report upon this 
subject, presented by myself three years ago, was prevented, by the pi'essure 
of other business upon its members, from entering into an examination of 
the matter. I beg leave, therefore, to repeat at this time the recommenda- 
tions of that report, with the grounds upon which they were founded. 

The copyright laws of most nations require the delivery to the govern- 
ment, or to libraries designated by it, of a copy, or of several copies, of 
every work for which copyright is claimed. As far as I have been able to 
ascertain, in Saxony and in Portugal only one copy is demanded ; in France, 
Austria, Russia, Bavaria, Denmark and Prussia two copies are required ; in 
the Italian States generally, Holland, Belgium and the United States, 
three copies ; in England, five copies ; in Svveden, four or five copies. The 
number in several of these countries has varied at different periods. 

This requirement had its origin in France, as far Imck as lOo?. Its 
object is two-fold : 

First, the deposit is considered necessary to the complete jiroteclion oj 
the author. If his copyright be infrin<ved, it may be important for him to 
be able to produce a certified copy of his work in order that it may be 
compared with the alleged counterfeit. In no other way can he be sure of 
finding such a copy than by making the deposit a condition of the copy- 
right laws. It is like the model of a machine deposited in the patent 
oifice. Judge McLean, in delivering the opinion of the Supreme Court of 
the United States, in the case of Wheaton versus Peters, says : "The 
deposit of the book in the Department of State may be important to iden- 
tify it at any future period, should the copyright be disputed, or an un- 
founded claim of authorship asserted." 

The second reason for the requirement is the public benefit. The right 
of the government to demand copies of the work for this purpose, is a 
necessary consequence of the established theory of the copyright law. 

The English and American courts agree in resting the right of an author 
to the exclusive privilege of printing and selling his book, upon the statute, 
and not upon the common law. "Congress," says Judge McLean, in 
delivering the opinion of the Supreme Coujt in the case of Wheaton vs. 
Peters, "instead of sanctioning an existing right, created it." He says, 
further, with respect to the right of the goverrnnent to (hrniand copies, 
" No one can deny that when the legislature are about to vest an exclusive 
right in the author or inventor, they have the power to prescribe the con- 
dition on which such right sliould be enjoyed." 



[108] 



It is manliest, however, that inasmuch as the law is intended to encour- 
age the production of books, no conditions shoukl be annexed to it which 
would be onerous to publishers ; for such conditions would tend to defeat 
the very end proposed to be answered by the statute. Too many copies 
should not therefore be required. In England at one time eleven copies 
were demanded. It was made to appear that the law, with such condi- 
tions, operated as a discouragement to the publication of expensive works ; 
it was, in consequence, changed. Five copies are now required, and a sum 
of money amounting to =£2,800 a year is paid by the government to the 
other six libraries, in compensation for the loss of the privilege which they 
previously enjoyed. 

The benefit of the deposit to the public is very great. It is universally 
allowed to be important for the interests of learning that in every country 
there should be at least one library where every book, pamphlet, or literary 
production of any kind, issued in the country should be carefully preserved. 
Now, it is utterly impossible to collect the whole in any other way than 
by making the deposit a condition to the vesting of the right of copy.* 

The advantage of the deposit to learning seems to have been the sole 
motive for its first introduction, and not, as is sometimes supposed, the 
censorship. Francis the first, of France, in 1537, gives as the ground for 
requiring a copy for the royal library at Blois, that these books " will be 
veritable proofs of that praiseworthy restoration of letters occurring in our 
time through our diligence, care and labor, * * * and that 
recourse may be had to them if perchance the books should perish from the 
memory of man, or be varied from the true and original publication.'" (See 
Renouard, Traite des Droits d'Auteurs, T. i, p. 42.) No mention is made 
of their use for the purposes of the censorship, which, indeed, must be exer- 
cised before the printing of the book, and not afterwards. In another ordi- 
nance of the same year, explanatory to the one above cited, the king 
expressly declares, that it was not intended to affect the censorship in any 
way; and again, in an ordinance of lo38, appointing Nicobar, Greek printer, 
it is ordered that " a copy of every book printed shall be deposited in the 
royal library, to the end that should any calamities befall literature, pos- 
terity might there find a resource for repairing, in part, the loss of books." 
(Renouard ut sup.) The legal deposit, it is manifest, had its origin in an 
enlightened regard for learning, and not in any odious restrictions upon the 
liberty of the press. 

* This point is discussed with great abihty by Professor Libri in a letter to the chairman 
of the committee of the House of Commons on public libraries, dated May, 1849. The 
following extracts deserve particular attention. They occur in a work but rarely to be found 
in this country, and are strikingly appropriate and convincing. I hope, therefore, that I 
shall be excused for inserting them, notwithstanding their great length. (See report of 
the House of Commons on public libraries, for 1849, page 118 to 120.) " As I have already 
stated in my evidence, in my opinion, and as all educated men agree, it is necessary that in a 
great country there should be at least one library in which one may expect to find, as far as 
it is possible, all books which learned men, men who occupy themselves upon any subject 
whatever, and who cultivate one of the branches of human knowledge, may require to con- 
sult. Of these there is nothing useless, nothing ought to be neglected ; the most insignificant 
in appearance, those which on their publication have attracted the least attention, sometimes 
become the source of valuable and unexpected information. 

"You know I)etter than me, sir, that it is in the fragments, now so rare and precious, of 
some alphabets, of some small grannaars published for the use of schools about the middle 
of the (ifteentli century, or in the letters distributed in Germany by the religious bodies 
commissioned to collect alms, that bibliographers now seek to discover the first process em- 
ployed by the inventors of xylography and of typography. It is in a forgotten collection 



33 [ i08 ] 

It follows, then, from the facts and considera lions which have bren pre- 
sented, that one copy of every hook should be denuinded of its author to be 
preserved iji sonic public national library, both for liis own sake and for that 
of the public. The legislature have the undoubted right to demand several 
copies as a condition to the gi-anting of an exclusive right to the publioa- 
tion and sale of the book, provided that they do not demand so many as to 
impose a burden upon the publisher, and thus discourage instead of encour- 
age the publication of books. The interest of the author and of the public 
(which when righlly understood can never be at variance) mayalike require 
that more than one copy should be thus deposited ; for if but one be deposi- 
ted, and that be destroyed by fire or other casualty, the benefit ©f the 
deposit would be lost. 

It ought to be remarked further, that the exacting of copies by the gov- 
ernment implies an obligation to prenerve them carefully, and to make tliem 
subservient to the purposes, both public and private, for which the deposit is 
made. 

In this respect our own copyright law is defective. It requires the book 
to be depositerl within three months after its publication, in the office of 
the clerk of the district in which the author resides. It also directs the 
clerk to transmit the copy to the State Department at Washington. It 
makes, hoAvever, no provision for the transmission, and it establishes no 
supervision. The consequence is, that not more than one half of the books 
for which copyrights are secured in the country ever reach the State' De- 
partment, and no record is transmitted when the books are not sent. 

Those books which are received are now kept in a room by themselves. 
They are, however,lent out to persons connected with the department ; they 
are not properly recorded ; no stamp is placed upon them for their identifi- 
cation ; no catalogue is kept of them ; they are not accessible for general 
use. Thus the benefit to the public is almost entirely lost. 

The supreme court has decided that the deposit of the copy in the Stale 
Department is essential to a valid title ; but in case of the loss of the cer- 
tificate, the author has no certain means of establishing his claims. The 
benefit to the author is therefore lost (as in the case of Wheaton) or liable 
to be lost, though he may have fulfilled all the conditions of the law. 

The requirement of a copy of every book and other article for which a 
copyright is secured, for the Smithsonian Institution, and also for the library 
of Congress, is made in the tenth section of the act of Congress establish- 



of indifferent plates published at Venice, by Faiisto Vcrantio, towards the end of the six- 
teenth century, that an engineer who interests himself in the history ol the mechanical arts, 
might find the lirst diagram of iron suspension bridges. 

"Nothing sliould be neglected ; nothing is useless to whoever wishes thoroughly to study a 
subject. An astronomer who desires to study the motions jiccculiar to certain stars, requires 
to consult all the old books of astronomy, and even of astrology which appear the most 
replete witii error. A chemist, a man who is engaged in t!ie industrial arts, may still con- 
sult with prolit certain works on alchemy, and even on magic. A legislator, a Jurisconsult 
needs sometimes to be acquainted with tlie laws, the ordinances which derive their origin 
from the most barbarous ages. But it is ]iarticularly for the l)iogra])her, lor the historian, 
that it is necessary to prepare the largest lield of inquiry, to amass the greatest ([uantity ol 
materials. That is not only true as regards past times, but we ought to prepare the ma- 
terial for future students. Historical facts which appear the least important, the most 
insignificant anecdotes registered in a pamphlet, mentioned in a placard or in a song, may be 
connected, at a later period in an unforeseen manner, with events which accpiire great import- 
ance, or with men who are distinguished in history by their genius, by their sudden eleva- 
tion, or even by their crimes. We are not born celebrated ; men become so ; and when we 
desiro to trace the history of those who have attained it, the inquirer ia often obliged to 

Mis.-3 



[ 108 ] 34 

ing the Smithsonian Institution. No penalty is attached to a neglect of 
the requirement. It has therefore been generally held to be merely 
directory. In the case of Jollie vs. Jaques, (Southern District New York,) 
it was held that the delivery of copies to the two libraries was not a pre- 
requisite to a title to copyright. By many also it is doubted whether, 
inasmuch as this enactment does not purport to be an amendment to the 
copyright law, a demand for the copy, in case it were refused, would be 
enforced by the courts. 

Many publishers are not aware of the law ; others regard it as unjust, 
and refuse to comply with it on that account ; others, again, find compliance 
inconvenient, and, not considering it essential, neglect it. The consequence 
is, that not half the books to which we are entitled are received by us. 
Music being issued by fewer publishers, and being more easily sent, has gen- 
erally been deposited ; so also have labels of patent medicines. The labor 
of issuing certificates for these and recording them, is as great as for the 
books, whilst they have scarcely any appreciable and permanent value. 

The books are frequently sent by mail, sometimes sealed, thus subjecting the 
Institution to letter postage upon them. The postmaster is directed to open 
such packages ; but not unfrequently sealed letters are found within them, 
and thus the whole package is chargeable with letter rates. This indeed is 
the case not only with respect to books received under the copyright law, 
but also with respect to those received by donation. We have taken every 
means to make known the fact that we do not possess the franking privi- 
lege. We have invariably written to the publishers or donors of works 
■who have made to us these expensive presents, and have several times 
received for reply that they were misinformed by the local postmaster, who 
had stated to them that the Smithsonian Institution was entitled to receive 
letters and packages without the payment of postage. It would seem to 
be inferred from the connection of the Smithsonian Institution with the 
government, that it of necessity possesses the franking privilege. We are 
thus subjected to great expense, which it is impossible for us to avoid, or 
materially to diminish. 

The whole value of the books received during the year 1851 by the 
copyright clause of our charter has been estimated at four hundred and 
fifty dollars, which is perhaps a low estimate, taking no account of maps, 
music and other articles. The expenditure for postage and transportation 
of these, together with the time and labor spent in issuing certificates, may 

pursue his researches in their most humble beginnings. Who would have imagined that the 
obscure author of a small pamphlet, « Le Souper de Beaucaire,' would subsequently become 
the Emperor Napoleon, and to write fully the life of the execrable Marat, one ought to have 
the very insignificant essays on physics that he published before the revolution. Nothing 
is too unimportant for wnoever wishes thoroughly to study the literary or scientific historj' 
of a country, or for one who undertakes to trace the intellectual progress ol" eminent minds, 
or to inform himself in detail of the changes which have taken place in the institutions and 
in the manners of a nation. Without speaking of the commentaries or considerable additions 
which have been introduced in the various reprints of an author, the successive editions of 
the same work, which appear to resemble each other the most, are often distinguished from 
each other by peculiarities worthy of much attention. 

"Amateurs of Italian literature seek with avidity for the various editions of the ' Orlando 
Furioso,' and of the ' Jcrusalerame Liberata,' published in the lifetime of Ariosto and 
Tasso, at the present day ; for these editions, generally rather imperfect, exhibit the labors 
of the authors, and the changes of style and composition, as well as the ameliorations of 
every kind, introduced by these two great poets in their works. It is by comparing these 
different editions that we learn how those great mastew worked. In the same way, in the 
first successive editions published of those famous ' Lettres Provinciales' of Pascal, which 



35 [ 108 3 

be estimated at two hundred and twenty-five dollars. It will thus be seen 
that the privilege is, in its present condition, far from being so important as 
it was intended and supposed to be. 

The same remarks apply probably with equal force to the subject as it 
concerns the library of Congress. It would seem, therefore, from this state- 
ment, that the law is not satisfactory to any of the parties affected by it][ 
A thorough change of system, so far as the deposit of copies is concerned, 
seems to be required in order to give the security promised to authors, to 
relieve publishers from the trouble, expense and uncertainty attending their 
efforts to comply with the conditions of the present law, and to provide 
for the public benefit and the transmission to posterity of materials for the 
history of our own times. 

The interests of all parties may be secured by a much simpler method 
than the present. After much consultation with those more particularly 
coiicerned, I have been led to believe that the following plan would prove 
generally acceptable : 

1. To require a claim of copyright under the name of the proprietor, 
(to which should be subjoined his residence, with the date of the com- 
mencement of such claim, to be printed upon the title-page or the reverse 
of the title of every copy of his work, as follows : 

" Copyright in this work is claimed from and after tlie 6th of August, 1852, by me, as 
author, [or proprietor,"} 

A B — , 

Or Boston, Massachusetts. 

2. To require the deposit of one or more copies of the book within one 
month after the date of the claim, (if the book be published in any of the 
States east of the Mississippi river,) and within three months if published 
west of the same. The books to be transmitted by mail or otherwise, at 
the risk and cost of the claimant of the copyright. 

The person depositing the book should be entitled to a certificate of 
deposit, on the payment of a small fee, which certificate should be made 
receivable in all courts of justice as prima facie evidence of compliance 
with the conditions of the law. 

The omission to deposit within the time specified should not invalidate 
(he copyright, but every proprietor of copyright should be allowed to 

in the sevnteenth century struck so severe a blow at the society of the Jesuits, are to bo met 
with when examined with care, roniaikuble diflerenccs iii language and style, which reveal 
to us in some measure the .secret of the composition of that illustrious writer. 

" Only to borrow one single fact of this kind from the scientific history of England, it will 
."luftice to recall to memory all the discussions which a slight alteration introduced in the 
lifetime of the author, in one of the editions of the admirable ' Frincipia' of Newton, has 
occasioned. Of many books pubhshed, more or less recently, the particulars are known, 
and the manager of a large libraiy ought particularly to apply himself to procure those 
works, whicli, sooner or later, will be asked for and consulted with profit by men who de- 
sire to examine things thoroughly. This takes for granted that a man entrusted with the 
direction of such an undertaking, i)ossesses a very extensive and profound science ; it as- 
Bumea also that he has at his disposition suflicient money to obtain, when the opportunity 
offers, all those books which are usually rare and expensive. Ho requires also sufficient 
room to place and arrange them in the best possible manner, in order that studious men may 
derive from them easily all desirable advantage. To a large library, to a metropolitan li- 
brary, intended to supply all the intellectual requirements of a nation, certainly no limits caa 
be assigned. 

♦•• »•»»••• 

" Without stopping here to name the rare books, the valuable editions, the typographical 
Konuments 9f all kind.? thftt ?v large library ought n9c«BsarJiy to contain to be eoiapkte, I 



( ]08 ] 36 

deposit the copy, or copies, at any lime, afterward, and previous to the com- 
mencement of an action for infringement of copyright, by paying the value 

of the book and dolhirs. But if the book be demanded and refused, 

the copyright shoukl be thereby forfeited. 

It shoukl be made obligatory that records be kept in the place of deposit ; 
that the books be stamped so as to be easily and with certainty identified ; 
and that they be restricted to the depository, unless required by a court 
of law. , 

Tiie law would apply not only to books, but to maps and charts, music, 
engravings, &c., and sliould require that every copy so sent for security of 
copyright, should be perfect, and, if a book, w^ell boimd. 

A monthly list of books thus deposited should be printed and distributed 
to booksellers and others. There are other details which would be neces- 
sary to be considered in preparing siich a law, but they are easily adjusted 
after establishing the principles upon which the enactment is to be founded. 

A law with the provisions above stated, would be much more satisfactory 
to publishers, because it would require less of them, and subject them to 
much less expense, and, more than all, would effect what the present, law 
does not — security of copyright. 

The question next arises, "Where shall the deposit of the book be 
made?" If but one copy be required, I beg leave to suggest that it could 
be most properly placed in the library of the Smithsonian Institution. The 
connexion of this establishment with the government is such as to render 
the deposit here peculiarly appropriate. We believe that it would be per- 
manently more useful here, and better protected than in any other estab- 
lishment. The rooms in the State Department appropriated to the purpose 
are now crowded to excess, and are, besides, needed for other purposes. 
The care of them occupies much of the time of a clerk, whose services can 
ill be spared. The clerks are continually changing, and hence it is impos- 
sible that any pro})er system for the care and usefulness of the books can be 
carried out. The business is entirely foreign to the department, and has, I 
am told, generally been considered as an incumbrance. It belongs more 
properly to a public library, and to one maintaining just the relation to the 
general government which the Smithsonian Institution does. This is the 



shall ask your perniiKsion, sir, to point ont, that if there are few old books, and even few 
editions already published of the same worJv, which ought not to find a place in a large 
metropolitan library, there are still fewer which are published at the present day, or which 
will be pu])lis]ied within a certain period. The history of the past is nearly known, or at 
least will be, sooner or later, as far as the nionunicnts and documents of every kind which 
have survived to tlie present day will allow. It is not the same thing for the history of the 
future; there every thing is vague, every thing is unknown, and we are absolutely ignorant, 
if, in the most insiguiticant book, in a pamphlet, in a song sold in the street, in a i^lacard in- 
tended to announce the most common events, is to be found a fact, a circumstance, a name, 
a date, which one hundred years hence may excite interest by its connection in any manner, 
and whicli it is now impossible to foresee, with some singular event, or with some man become 
celebrated. It would be, however, impossible to exact from the manager of a library, that 
with the view of jn-eparing himself for all tlie circumstances of the future, he should 
apply the funds at his coitiTnand for the purchase of all books which appear annually in his 
country; besides, unless he devoted himself entirely to thai, he could never know all the 
Iwge and small books in published volumes, in livraisons (parts) or even in detached sheets, 
which might be published, not only in the capital, but in the most distant and obscure places 
in the provinces. It is this -which, iridei)endently of any other consideration, renders the 
legal deposit so necessary ; it is advisable, also, that whilst rendering it the least onerous 
possible to the publishers, by exacting only the nninber'of copies strictly necessary for the 
object in view, all the measurfs vvhicli oou rejider it really useful and of general application 
should be taken. ■■ 



37 [ 108 1 

view taken of the matter in other countries. In England, the copy is 
required for the British Museum, (which sustains a rehition to the British 
government simihir to that v/hicli the Smithsonian Institution does to our 
own,) and not for the library of the House of Commons, or any library of 
the executive departments. 

I am unable to say whether or not the deposit is desired by the guar- 
dians of the library of Congress. There is no doubt, however, that two or 
even three copies would be cheerfully granted by all publishers in this coun- 
try, if they could be sure thai the purposes of the deposit would be 
ans'wered. The dissatisfaction which has hitherto been expressed has arisen 
entirely from the indefiniteness of the law, the difficulty of complying with 
it, and the doubt whether the deposit would be safely guarded, anil ren- 
dered available for the object for which it is made. 

Statistics of Libraries. — During the year, the report which I had the 
honor to present in January, 1859, upon the public libraries of the United 
States, has been printed. I continued to add to it, up to the time of its 
going to press, such new information as I was able to collect upon the 
various libraries; and the report constitutes a valurae of more than two 
hundred pages. It has been widely distributed throughout the country. 
Durincr the last three or four months we have received statements from 
upwards of a hundred libraries, more full and accurate than those which 
had before been presented. I hope to be able within a year or two to pre- 
pare a full account of these institutions. 

The stereotyped Catalogue. — In my last report I presented, at consider- 
able length, a plan for the stereotyping of catalogues by separate, movable 
titles, with a statement ol the advantages which it was supposed would 
result from the system. The plan was referred to a commission of libra- 
rians and literary gentlemen, for the purpose of obtaining their opinion as 
to its value and feasibility. Their report was in all respects favorable, and 
I was authorized to proceed with the work. During the year I have 
bestowed much attention to the carrying out of the project. 

Three methods of stereotyping had been devised, and it remained to be 
decided which of the three offered the greatest advantages. The first was 
by the electrotype process; the second by a modification of the common 
method of stereotyping; the third by a new process, patented by Mr. Josiah 
Warren, of Iiuliana. The last seemed to offer peculiar facilities, and pro- 
mised to be much more economical than either of the other methods ; but 
its applicability to our purposes had not been sufficiently tested. With the 
assistance of the patentee, I instituted a series of experiments in order to 
satisfy ourselves upon this pomt. The results were submitted to the judg- 
ment of a commission, who, after witnessing the process for manufacturing 
titles upon separate blocks, and carefully examining the work executed, 
recommended the adoption of this })rocess in preference to the others. 

These experiments were of course made with imperfect instruments. It 
was necessary before commencing the work in earnest to devise the best 
form of apparatus to be used. This required another extended series of 
experiments. These were completed as early as the month of April, but it 
was impossible to obtain the a})paratus, ready for use, until the month of 
October. Everything connected with typogra])hy requires a great deal of 
exactness. It is very difficult to find workmen sufficiently skilful and care- 
ful to manufacture the machinery and apparatus. It was necessary also to 
instruct a workman in the manipulations of the art, Owing to delays from 



[ 108 ] 38 

these causes, it was not until the month of December that our office was in 
working order. 

I present to you herewith a sheet printed from these titles, with some of 
the blocks. It will be seen from these specimens that the work, although 
executed by hands not well skilled in such employment, will compare not 
unfavorably with that ])roduced by other stereotyping offices. Practice 
will give greater perfection. We can see no reason to doubt the mechani- 
cal practicability of the plan ; it is now thought to be fully established. 
.We may therefore direct attention to plans for carrying it practically and 
speedily into effect. 

The course which I would propose for this purpose is, first to proceed 
with the catalogue of our own library, preparing it in accordance with the 
rules recommended by the commission, and stereotyping it as rapidly as is 
consistent with the perfection of the work. The first part of so extensive 
an undertaking should be done with great care; it will furnish a model for 
all subsequent labors. We cannot, therefore, at first advance with the 
same rapidity as will be practicable at a later period. Cataloguers must be 
trained ;• workmen must acquire skill ; apparatus must be perfected. 

After our own catalogue is completed, or nearly so, we may commence 
upon the catalogue of any other hbrary which may be off'ered to us. The 
commissioners upon the catalogue suggested the importance of having the 
library of Congress first catalogued upon this plan. Since their report was 
written, the larger part of this collection has been lost by fire. Some con- 
siderable portion is, however, left, and undoubtedly measures will imme- 
diately be taken for replenishing the library. This would seem, then, to 
be a peculiarly appropriate time for presenting this matter formally to the 
proper authorities. It is extremely desirable that the catalogue of the new 
library should be constructed on a different plan from that heretofore fol- 
lowed — a plan which, however popular it may have been when it was 
adopted, has long since been generally abandoned. By entering into the 
system which we propose, Congress can save large sums of money in the 
reprinting of the catalogue, and can, at the same time, promote a great 
national work. 

Respectfully submitted, 

C. C. JEWETT, Librarian. 



REPORT 



THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY 



CHARGE OF THE MUSEUM, &c. 



To Joseph Henry ^ Esq., LL.D,, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Sir : I herewith present to you the report of operations during the year 
1851, in the departments severally assigned to my charge. These consist 
mainly of three : 1st, of publications ; 2d, of distribution of volumes and 
exchanges ; and 3d, of natural history ; and I propose to take them up in 
the order here named. 

1. PUBLICATIONS. 

During the year 1851 the second volume of Smithsonian Contributions 
to Knowledge was published, containing four hundred and sixty- four 
pages of text, twenty-four plates, and eighty-two wood cuts. The print- 
ing was commenced in 1850 and completed in 1851 ; only a few, how- 
ever, of the thirteen papers embraced in the volume had left the press 
before the commencement of the year, while more than one half the matter 
was not put into the printer's hands until after this period. The following 
list contains an enumeration of the individual memoirs of the volume, with 
the number of pages and illustrations to each. It will be remembered that 
each memoir is separately paged and indexed, and is thus distinct in itself, 
and that the volume is an aggregate of individual papers, with, however, a 
general introduction and title, as well as a general alphabetical index to all, 
in addition to the special index to each memoir. In order to facilitate the 
application of this general index, the plan used for congressional documents 
has been adopted for the third volume — namely, to assign beforehand to 
each paper its place in the series, and to have this number, in Roman let- 
ter, printed inside of the running head of each page. 

List of Memoirs in Vol. II. t^mithso7iian Contrihutions to Knowledge. 

1. Researches relative to the planet Neptune. By Sears C. Walker, Esq. ; pp. 65. 

2. On the Vocal Sounds of Laura Bridgeman, the blind deaf Mute at Boston, compared 
with the Elements of Phonetic Language. By Dr. Francis Lieber; pp. 32 and one plate. 

3.* Microscopical Examination of Soundings made by the United States Coast Survey, 
off the Atlantic coast of the United States. By Professor J. W. Bailey; pp. 16 and one 
plate. 

4.* Contributions to the Physical Geography of the United States. By Charles Ellet, Jr.; 
pp. 64, one plate and two wood cuts. 

5. Mosasaurus, and the three allied new Genera, Ilolcodus, Conosaurus, and Ampho- 
rosteus. By Robert W. Giljbes, M. D. ; pp. 14 and three plates. 

6. The Classification of Insects from cmbryological Data. By Professor L. Agassiz ; pp. 
28, one plate and eight wood cuts. 

7. On the explosiveness of Nitre, with a view to elucidate its Agency in the explosion of 
July, 1845, in New York. By Dr. Robert Hare ; pp. '20. 

8.* Microscopical Observations made in South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. By Pro- 
fessor J. W. Bailey; pp. 48 and three plates. 

9.* Aboriginal Monuments of the State of New York, comprising the results of original 
survej's and explorations, with an illustrative appendix. ByE. G. Squier; pp. 188, four- 
teen plates and seventy-two wood cuts. 

•The asterisk added to the number indicates that the memoir was first issued in 1851. . 



41 [ 108 ] 

10. Epheraeris of the planet Neptune for the date of the Lalande Observations of May 8 
and 10, 1795, and for the oppositions of 1847, '48 and '49. By Sears C. Wallier, Esq. ; 
pp. 32. 

11. Ephemeris of the planet Neptune ibr the year 1850. By Sears C. Walker, Es(i. 
pp. 10. 

12.* Ephemeris of the planet Neptune for the year 1851. By Sears C. Walker, Es(i 
pp. 10. 

13.' Occultations visilile In tlie United States during the year 1851. Computed by John 
Downes, Esq. ; pp. 26. 

The usual edition of each lueinoir consists of fifteen hundred copies, of 
which one thousand are I'etained for binding info volumes, and the remain- 
ing five hundred are distributed separately. Of papers printed in 1850 only 
twelve hundred and fifty copies were published, but the demand has become 
so great as to render it expedient to increase the number to fifteen hundred. 
In a single instance (that of Mr. Ellet's memoir) even five hundred extras 
were found inadequate, and an additional edition of one thousand was 
printed to meet the denuuid. The average imniber of copies, howeA'er, of 
the memoirs of the second volume is about fifteen hundred. 

Several memoirs of the third volume of Smithsonian Contributions to 
Knowledge have been finished, and others are in so great a state of forward- 
ness as to render its issue early in the year lSo2 more than probable. 
The papers already completed, and partly distributed in a separate form, 
are : 

1. Ephemeris of the planet Neptune for 1852. By Sears C. Walker, Esq. ; pp. 10. 

2. Occultations visible in the United States and other parts ot the World in 1862. Com- 
puted by John Downes; pp. 34. 

3. Monograph of the Fresh Water Cottoids of North America. By Charles Girard ; pp. 
80 and three plates. 

The work of Professor Harvey, entitled Nereis Boreali Americana, or 
History of the Marine Algai of North America, part i., Melanospermese, 
consisting of one hundred and fifty-two pages and twelve colored plates, is 
also completed, and only waiting for cases from the binder to be published. 

The quarto memoirs for this third volume, now in press, are the following: 

1. Description of Ancient Works in Ohio. By Charles Whittlesey. 

2. Researches in Electrical Rheomutry. By Professor A. Sccchi. 

3. Plantte Wrightiame. By Dr. Asa Gray.§ 

4. Plant£e Eremontiame. By Dr. John Torrey. 

These will, it is hoped, all be completed in a short time. The six plates 
of corals to accompany Professor Agtissiz's paper for the volume are also 
now ready. 

The fourth volume ot the fourth series is also in press, aiul will probably be 
issued simultaneously with the third, in the coming spring. It will consist 
entirely of a grammar and dictionary of the Dakota language, prepared by 
Rev. S. R. Riggs, and will occupy about four hundred pages. 

Several plates for vol. of Smithsonian Contributions aie also finished. 

Besides these works hi quarto, several reports in octayohave been printed. 
The first is the report on jiublic libraries, by Professor C. C. Jewett. This 
was printed by order of Congress, as an appendix 'b the annual report of 
the Smithsonian Institution,. It contains two V ^Ired and eight pages. 
The second report is by Messrs. Booth andMo*-] m recent improvements 



♦ The asterisk added to the number indic£\tes iW "* AP Ar^t issued in 185L 



'^h 



[108 



43 



in the chemical arts." This embraces two hundred and twelve pages, and 
has been stereotyped. 

The fifth annual report of the Smithsonian Institution (for 1850) did 
not appear until December, 1851. This consists of three hundred and 
twenty-five pages with, and one hundred and forty-four pages without the 
list of copyright books received by the Institution up to 1851. 

The report of Dr. F. E. Melsheimer, on the Coleoptera of the United 
States, is in press and will appear some time in the course of 1852. 

The collection of Barometrical, Thermometrical, Hypsometrical and other 
tables, by Professor Guyot, has been stereotyped, with the exception of a 
few pages, and will be ready in a few weekj. It will embrace about two 
hundred pages. 

A small pamphlet of directions for making collections of Natural History 
has been printed and is nearly ready. This will serve as a substitute for the 
larger work on the same subject which is now ready for the press. A cir- 
cular sheet of similar character has also been published and extensively 
distributed, as also a sheet of directions and lists for the observation and 
registry of periodical phenomena of animal and vegetable life. 

2. DISTRIBUTION OF VOLUMES AND EXCHANGE. 

During the past year the second volume of the Smithsonian Contributions 
to Knowledge issued from the press, after having been subjected to many 
unforeseen delays. The first (copies received from the binder were sent to 
such domestic institutions as were on the list. Their distribution was 
effected very rapidly by forwarding those for each district to some central 
bookseller, and mailing letters of advice to each institution or library to 
be supplied, informing it of the fact. The distribution was accomplished 
with such promptness in this way, that in the course of a month or six 
weeks all the copies, with few exceptions, reached their destination. Ac- 
knowledgments have already been received for nearly all. The gentlemen 
to whom the Institution is mainly indebted for this service, performed 
gratuitously in all cases, are Messrs. J. P. Jewett & Co., Boston ; Geo. P. 
Putnam, esq.. New York; Lippincott, Grarabo & Co., Philadelphia; John 
Russel, esq., Charleston; and H. W. Derby & Co., Cincinnati. 

Nearly all the packages sent out, included copies of the History of the 
Indian tribes, by Messrs. Schoolcraft and Eastman, and presented by the 
Honorable Luke Lea, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, to such institutions, 
selected from the list of the Smithsonian Institution, as were judged entitled 
to them. A special acknowledgment direct to the Indian Bureau was re- 
quested. 

The parcels for a few institutions in the South and West are still on hand, 
no favorable mode of transmission having yet presented itself. Most of 
these, however, will be taken charge of by members of Congress, and by 
them conveyed to their destination. 

It was not until the beginning of July that copies enough were received 
to supply the foreigif Ijusts. By the 21st, however, all the parcels were in 
readiness, catalogued arkJ boxed up for sending, and invoices of the contents 
of each prepared for traj ' ' ' mail direct. The lists used in the 

distribution of the first ^ '•ably enlarged, and subjected to 

various corrections, will I di». 

) 



43 



[ 108] 



Many of the scientific bodies of this country embraced the opportunity 
offered to them of sending their memoirs to European societies. The diffi- 
culties of scientific intercourse between the Institutions of Europe and 
America have in many instances been very great, resulting either in great 
delay in exchanging publications, or in an utter failure of the latter to reach 
their destination. The system adopted by the Smithsonian Institution is lia- 
ble to no such objections, and the offer of its benefits to other institutions 
was gladly accepted. The principal bodies accepting the invitj^tion were 
the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston; the Boston Natural 
History Society ; the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences ; the United 
States Coast Survey ; the Washington Obj-ervatory, and others. The Com- 
missioner of Indian Affairs, at the instance of the authors and of the 
Smithsonian Institution, took the same occasion to send copies of the His- 
tory of the Indian tribes to about one hundred and fifty institutions in 
Europe, taken from the Smithsonian list. Numerous documents of scientific 
interest published by Congress were procured through the Senate document 
room, from members of Congress who relinquished their claim to extra 
copies, and in other ways. The Senate also assigned to the Institution 
three hundred copies of Foster and Whitney's report on the Copper lands of 
Lake Superior for foreign distribution. It is to be hoped that this act of 
liberality to scientific institutions abroad may be repeated in the case of all 
public documents of general interest. 

The entire number of different addresses borne by the packages, five 
hundred in number, amounted to two hundred and ninety-one, of which 
two hundred and one were of institutions in correspondence with the Smith- 
sonian Institution. The packages for France, Italy, Spain and Portugal, 
were sent for distribution to Hector Bossange, of Paris, and amounted to 
eighty-five. The remainder of continental Europe, except Greece and 
Turkey, was supplied with three hundred and thirteen packages, through 
Dr. John G. Fliigel, United States consul, Leipsic ; England, Scotland and 
Ireland, eighty-four ])ackages, through Henry Stevens, London. Hon. 
George P. Marsh, minister resident at Constantinople, took charge of the 
copies for Greece, Turkey and Northern Africa. The parcels for the rest 
of Africa and for Asia were forwarded through the American Board of 
Foreign Missions, Boston, the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions, New 
York, and the American Colonization Society, Washington. 

The whole mass occupied forty boxes of about six cubic feet capacity 
each, besides several separate bundles, and weighed 7920 pounds. These 
were distributed as follows : 



To whom sent. 



Dr. Fliigel... 
n. Bossange. 
Mr. Stevens . 
Others 

Total 



Institutions. 



81 
55 
47 

18 



201 



No. of 
pcircels. 



313 
85 
84 
18 



500 



No. of 
boxes. 



20 
10 



40 



Cubic ca- 
pacity. 



Feet. 

120 
52f 
42 
25i 



240 



Weight. 



Lhs. 
3, 960 
1,738 
1,336 
836 



7,920 



[ 108 ] 44 

The numbers of institutions refer only to those to which the Smithsonian 
publications were sem. The remaining ninety have not been classified for 
the present. 

In addition to the parcels themselves, circulars (two hundred and ninety- 
one in number) were prepared for each address, and forwarded by mail. 
These contained a full statement of the purposes and wishes of the Institu- 
tion. In each was a lull invoice of everything sent, whether by the In- 
stitution or by others, with information of the circumstances connected with 
the transmission of the parcels. Although much of the matter of the cir- 
culars was printed, still the laborof making out the invoices was very great, 
involving, as it did in some instances, the writing of fifty, or even more, 
titles of books in a single letter. 

As the import duty on books is much greater in England (han on the Con- 
tinent, application was made by yourself to the British government, through 
Sir Henry Bulwer, the British minister in Washington, for a remission of 
duty on packages directed to such Institutions in England as were embraced 
in the list of distribution which was enclosed to him. The ready assent 
to the request, and order of free admission was of essential service, as per- 
miting the addition of much more matter to these packages than would have 
been possible had the duty of twelve shillings and six pence sterling per 
hundred weight been exacted. The parcels sent abroad have all reached 
their respective agents of distribution, and the great majority already ar- 
rived at their final places of destination. Every foreign mail brings letters 
of acknowledgement from institutions abroad for the donation, with expres- 
sions of admiration for what they are pleased to terra the unexampled 
liberality and magnificence of the enterprise. In this connexion it may be 
proper to add that this Institution, as far as possible, transmits its packages, 
with their accompanying letters, free of any cost to the recipient. 

The receipts of volumes from foreign institutions, in exchange for Smith- 
sonian publications, have continued to be of great value. The report of last 
year mentioned the following as the entire amount up to January 1, 1852 : 

Folio and quarto volumes 132 

Octavo " 138 

270 

Parts of volumes and tracts ^ -' 608 



878 . 



From January, 1851, to January, 1852 : 

Folio and quarto volumes -..-. 96 

Octavo 172 

267 

Parts of volumes and tracts •• 342 



609 



It may be well to mention that this does not include any returns made for 
the volumes sent last summer, none having yet arrived on the 3] st of De- 
cember, 1851. Nearly all those institutions which are mentioned in the 
last report as having failed to make returns or agknowledgments, have since 
done both. 



45 [ 108 ] 

An almost unique feature in the exchanges of the Institution consists in 
the number of academical pubjications received from, almost all the univer- 
sities of Europe. The series from many arc very full, particularly lor later 
years; and very few are to be found in any other American library. These 
works are generally of great \alue to the student. 

In conclusion, I would remark that the Institution is greatly imlelsled to 
the gentlemen acting a.s agents In Europe for the efficiency of its system 
of foreign exchange. Its thanks aie especially due to Dr. Flugel for his 
close and untiring attention in jjroiiK^ting Ihe interests, not (>nly of thi? 
Institution, but of American science and literal 'ue in general. 

O. RKPORT 0|- OPERATIONS IN NATURAL HISTOUV. 

This report I propose to present u.ndcr ilie follovring subdivisions: 

1. collkcxjo^'s. 

2. Explorations. 

3. Reports. 

4. Registry of PjjraomijAL Pjikxomkjjv. 

5. Exchanges. 

In obedience to your suggestion, i have iulded to the details of operations 
in the line of Natural History of the Smithsonian Institution, such facts m 
regard to those of government, societies, and individuals in North America, 
as I deem to be of most importance. It must not, however, be considered 
as a complete exposition of the subject; still, imperfect as the sketch may 
be, it will, I hope, be acceptable to those who may not have at their com- 
mand the information in possession of the Smithsonian Institution. In the 
March number of Silliman's Journal will be found a list of all works and 
articles relating to the natural history of North America, published during 
1851, which will relieve the necessity of here going into the same detail. 

1. COLLECTIONS, 

Additions. — The additions to the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution 
during the year 18ol, have been varied and valuable. They include nume- 
rous species which are entirely new to science, thus affording copious 
material for original investigation ; while in those already described are 
the means of important comparisons. It is not in the more showy depart- 
ments of Natural History that this growth is marked, but in the less con- 
spicuous classes, orders and families, which from their comparative obscurity, 
have experienced unmeiited neglect. It is well understood that the Smith- 
sonian Institution does not enter upon ground already occupied, but en- 
deavors to remedy the omissions of others. Hence it i« that the collections 
of this Institution are not very attractive to the general visitor, hi the ab- 
sence of cases of mounted birds, mammalia, sheHs, &c., but the student of 
Natural History will find much that will be sought in vain elsewhere. 

The circulars issued early in last spring, mentioning especial desiderata 
of the Institution, and giving brief hints for the preservation of specimens, 
have proved highly effectual in procuring many important contributions. 
A small pamphlet is now in press, shortly to be published, which will ex- 
press more in detail the matter of the circular above relerred to. The 



[ 108 ] 46 

more elaborate report on making colIeGtions and observations in natural 
history and geology is also ready for the press, and only waits the comple- 
tion of some wood cuts. 

In an appendix will be found the list of additions to the collection of 
the Institution, with the names of the donors, arranged alphabetically. 
The entire number of parcels received amomits to sixty-three, while that 
of individual specimens is very great. 1 propose in a few words to men- 
tion the points of especial interest in these collections, classifying the more 
prominent specimens according to the usual system. 

Mammals. — Of North American species, the most conspicuous are two 
specimens of the big horn or Rocky Mountain sheep, Ovis montana, the 
one presented by Captain S. Van Vliet, the other by the Hon. J. Butter- 
field, commissioner of the General Land Office. The first one has been 
sent to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, to supply a 
desideratum there ; and the two, with one brought in by Captain Stansbury 
and deposited in the national gallery, are the only specimens in public col- 
lections in the country. Various horns and skulls of American reindeer or 
caraboo^ black tail deer, antelope, elk, &c., have been received, as also 
skulls of wolves, foxes, bears, &c. Some very valuable European mam- 
malia have also been received from Mr. Steenberg, of Elsinore, including 
skins of wolves, seals, arctic foxes, &c., and several skulls of the reindeer 
ol Greenland. A magnificent collection of Scandinavian mammalia, sent 
last year by the Swedish Academy, at Stockholm, had not arrived at the 
end of the year, though daily expected. Numerous specimens of Ameri- 
can rats, spermophiles, &c., have been received. 

Birds.— A. few birds only have been added to the American series, these 
consisting mainly, of specimens procured in the Washington market, and 
prepared at the Institution. A beautiful series, however, of the nests and 
eggs of European species, with many skins, has been forwarded by Mr. 
Sturm. 

Reptiles and fishes. — It is among these classes that the additions have 
been most numerous. The collections are principally from the great lakes, 
the Alleghany river, the southern coast, as well as from California, Oregon 
and New Mexico. It will be useless to mention any specially interesting 
objects, where so many exist. The classified lists in the appendix, how- 
ever, will give a general idea of the extent and variety of this portion of 
the cabinet. „ 

Invertebrates. — The donations of Mr. Pourtalcs and of Mr. Marsh, with' 
the collections made by Mr. Girard, at Charleston, constitute the principal 
additions in the department of invertebrate zoology. Here, as among the 
rertebrata, are several rare and new species. 

Plants. — An extensive series of the plants of Hungary, embracing many 
himdred species, was presented by Mr. Arthur Schott. This gentleman 
subsequently added a number of American species, like the former, gathered 
by himself. 

Fossil remains. — A number of specimens of the fossil vertebrata from 
the Mauvaises Terres were presented by Captain Stewart Van Vliet. Dr. 
H. A. Prout, of St. Louis, has also enriched the collection. Remains of a 
mastodon, from Gloucester county, Virginia, have been received from Rev. 
Charles Mann and Captain Marchant. Some interesting specimens of fos- 
sil woods were presented by Major O. Cross. 



47 [ 108 ] 

Minerals and Geological specimens. —These have consisted of coals from 
the Island of Formosa, a slab of itacolumite from Brazil, gold quartz from. 
California, &c. The Commissioner of the General Land Office has transferred 
to the Institution the. valuable collection of minerals and fossils made by Dr. 
D. D. Owen in his survey of the northwest. 

Ethnology.— J. W. Foster, Esq., has given to the Institution specimens 
of cloth found in an Indian mound ; and the Hon. J. B. Balestier various 
articles of dress worn by native tribes in Borneo. Specimens of Indian 
pottery have also been presented by Mr. William E. Guest. 

Present state of the collections. — During the past year the collections of 
specimens in alcohol have all been carefully assorted, separated and labelled 
as far as this could be done under a press of other duties. A large number 
of kegs have been emptied of their contents, and placed in jars. Other 
portions of the collections, the skins and skeletons of vertebrata and 
invertebrata have been kept in order, although little can be done for their 
arrangement and exhibition, until the completion of the museum room. At 
present it is considered best to keep the specimens boxed up, as far as can 
be done with safety. When the large room is finished but little time will 
be required to arrange and expose the specimens to the best advantage. 

The following enumeration of the alcoholic preparations will convey 
some idea of the richness of this branch of the Smithsonian collections. 



[108] 



48 



Ko. of 
jars. 


Total. 


Mamma/ ill. 
From various rogions , , 


36 






36 


Ixpptiles. 
From Jamaica 


100 
57 
53 

S32 


Bonaparte colkjction (European) 




Other European specimens .' 




North American 






554 


I'isiirf:. 

From J amaica 


54 

31 

31 

216 

750 


Constantinople and E<^vpr 




Germany 




Bonaparte collection ( Europe) , 




North American 






1,082 


Aiilrvlotii. 

Crustacea 


(il 
20 
18 
15 


Apterous iuHects and larva* 




Insects to be jiinned hereafter 




Entozoa and AnnelidH 






114 


Miscellaneous 


20 




20 


Bad lata. 


1 

4 

11 


Holothuriie 




Miscellaneous 






16 


Mi.^cena7i.ro7(-';, 
Embryos , .... 


35 
30 


Small skeletons 






65 



The entire number of jars, thorcfoi'e, varying in size from two gallons to 
one ounce, and now actually filled, exceeds JSoO. But many of these con- 
tain more than one species, so that when all now on hand are properly as- 
sorted the nund)er will amount nearly to 2,500. There are besides nearly 
twenty kegs and large vessels filled with duplicate specimens, for exchange, 
or with species too large for jars, together with several not yet assorted. 

Besides the above there are about one hundred and sixty jars filled with 
new species of American fishes and reptiles, which are here temporarily for 
description. 

Of the otliei- collectionsj I will only mciition in conclusion, that of skulls 
and skeletons of vertebrate animals, which embraces about nine hundred 
specimens, as also that of European and American birds in about three 
^ousand specimens. Full lists of these, as of otjier portions of the museum, 
wMl be hereafter published. 



49 [ 108 ] 

2. EXPLORATIONS. 

Explorations under patronage of the Smithsonian Institution. — The 
first of these is tliat of Proiessor C. B. Adams, of Amherst. This gentle- 
man returned in the spring, from an excursion to Jamaica, and other places 
of the^West Indies, and to Panama. He made very extensive collections 
in many departments of natural history, especially in conchology, herpe- 
tology and ichthyology. A very interesting collection in the two last men- 
tioned ^livisions has been received from him, in return for an appropriation 
of fifty dollars towards defraying his expenses. The scries contains many 
highly interesting species, some of them new to science. 

Mr. Charles Girard, in May last, visited Charleston, and made various 
zoological collections of much interest, aided by facilities furnished by Dr. 
J. E. Holbrook, Dr. St. Julian Ravenel, ami others. This collection, al- 
though not as extensive as might have"' been made at a more favorable 
season of the year, is stiJl very important, not ordy on account of the known 
vertebrata and invertebrata, but also for embracing some undescribed species 
of fishes. 

During a visit to Cincinnati in May, I embraced the opportunity to make 
a collection of the fishes of the Ohio river. In this I was fortunate to have 
the assistance of Di'. J. P. Kirtland, (he enunent author of the "fishes of 
the Ohio river and its tiiltutaiies," who had there procured most of his 
species. Nearly all he had ever found in this locality, with few exceptions, 
were again obtained and identified by him. In August, again, I explored 
the tributaries of the Hudson below Albany, and subsequently Otsego lake, 
in each case richly rewarded by the result, and especially by learning of 
the existence in the latter lake of a Lota, the usual hydrographical associate 
of the Coregonus, or white fish. 

'S. REPORTS ON" EXPLORATIONS. 

To the Smithsonian Institution : 

In the report presented to you by Dr. Joseph Leidy, upon the fossil 
remains submittetl to him for examination, you will find a short statement 
of the character of these fossil vertebrata. The scientific interest attaching 
to these specimens is very great, as showing for the first time the existence 
iir this country of an extensive eocene deposit, rivalling in the variety of its 
species of extinct animals the c(debrated beds of the Paris basin. The dis- 
covery of an entirely new family of mammalia, embracing eight new genera, 
is one result of the examinations by Dr. Leidy. It will be remeud)ered 
that these specimens were collected by Thaddeus Culbertson, Esq., in the 
summer of 1850. Since then an additional collection has been presented 
by Captain Stewart Van Vliet of the army, and several specimens kiiuUy 
loaned by Dr. H. A. Proul, of St. Louis, all from the same locality. Some 
of the same genera and species, with a few not hitherto received by the 
Smithsonian Institution, were collected by Dr. Evans under the direction of 
Dr. David D. Owen, and will soon be published l)y the latter gentleman in 
his account of the geology of the northwest. 

It is much to be desired that government may fit out an expedition for 
the complete exploration of this I'egion, so interesting to the geologist and 
naturalist. Without some such aid it will be impossible to hope for a full 
development of these treasures for years to come. Besides the vertebrate 



1 108 ] 50 

deposits on White river, there are others known in various parts of the 
basin of the upper Missouri, some belonging to the eocene and others to the 
cretaceous formations. 

The species of cottoids belonging to the collection of the Smithsonian 
Institution have been worked up by Mr. Charles Girard in his memoir re- 
cently published in the third volume of Smithsonian Contributions to Know- 
ledge. With but few exceptions, specimens of all the species described are 
now in the collection, several being entirely unique. 

An account of the collection of plants made by Charles Wright in 
Texas and New Mexico is now in course of publication by the Institution, 
in a paper written by Dr. Asa Gray, entitled "Plants Wrightianse." Dr. 
Torrey has also a paper on the new plants collected in California, by Col. 
J. C. Fremont. This, with the preceding, will appear in the third volume 
of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 

To government. — The letter-press of the conchology of the United States 
Exploring Expedition, by Dr. A. A. Gould, has been printed during the 
past year under direction of Captain Wilkes and the Joint Library com- 
mittee of Congress, although not yet issued. The atlas of plates is in an 
advanced state of forwardness. The volume on Meteorology, by Captain 
Wilkes, has also been published. The series of published results of the Ex- 
pedition is as follows : 

1. Narrative of the Expedition. By Captain Wilkes. 5 vols. 4to, and folio atlas. 

2. Zoophytes. By Professor J. D. Dana. 1 vol. 4to, and atlas. 

3. Philology. By Mr. Hale, 1 vol. 4to. 

4. Races of Man. By Dr. C. Pickering. 1 vol. 4to. 

6. Mammals and Birds. By Titian R. Peale. 1 vol. 4to. 

6. Geology and Mineralogy. By Professor J. D. Dana. 1 vol. 4to, and atlas. 

7. Meteorology. By Captain Wilkes. 1 vol. 4to. 

8. Charts. 1 vol. folio. 

Making eleven volumes quarto, and four folio volumes of plates. 
Those still to appear are : 

1. Conchology. By Dr. A. A. Gould. 

2. Herpetology. By S. F, Baird and C. Girard. 

3. Ichthyology. By Prof. L. Agassiz. 

4. Crustacea. By Prof. J. D. Dana. 

5. MedusED. By Prof. J. D. Dana. 

6. Echinoderms. By Prof. L. Agassiz. 

7. Annelids. 

8. Insects. 

9. Ferns. By Mr. Breckenridge. 

10. Fungi. By Messra. Berk«ley and Curtis. 

11. Algie. By Prof. J. W. Bailey. 

12. Botany (Phanerogams.) By Drs. Torrey and Gray. 

13. Mosses. By Mr. Sullivant. 

14. Geographical Distribution of Species. By Dr. Charles "Pickering. 

16. Hydrography, Magnetism, Astronomy and Physics. 7jy Capt. Wilkes. 
16. Charts, vol. 2. 

Several of the above titles may, however, be united into one volume. 
Naturalists, generally, who have been watching'^ the progress of this great 
national work, will learn with deep regret that ? jl the undistributed copies 



51 [ 108 ] 

of the first seren volumes already published were destroyed in the same fire 
which consumed the library of Congress in December, ISol. This is the 
more melancholy, since but seventy copies were distributed. The issue ot 
a second and enlarged edition is still more imperatively called for than 
before. This might be published at a moderate cost, by using less expen- 
sive paper and doing without t-olored plates. It is believed that one thon- 
sand copies each of the entire series of volumes of text already i.^sued could 
be republished for less tluin fifteen thousand dollars. 

The first volume of the History of the Indian Tribes oi the United States, 
by Henry K. Schoolcrnft, with illustrations by Captain S. Eastman, was 
published last winter. It contains a vast body of information useful to the 
historian, the ethnologist and the philologist, and is j^rofusely illustrated 
with plates, forming the most luagnificent work, with the exception of the 
reports (^f the Exploiing Expedition, ever issued by our goverrnnent. 
Several additional volumes, it is understood, will be published at short 
intervals. 

The report of Lieutenant Simpson's expedition into the Navajo country, 
in New Mexico, published last summer, contains much matter of great 
interest to the ethnologist. Some interesting observations were also made 
on the natural history of the country, and specimens of a new species of 
axolotl procun d, shortly to be described by myself, under the name of 
Siredon lichevigerv>^. This has erroneously been considered as a fish with 
legs. The report is accompanied by seventy-two plates. So great was 
the interest excited by (his work, that it has been reprinted as a booksel- 
ler's speculation. 

The vahuil)le report of Messrs. Foster and Whitney, on the copper lands 
of Lake Superior, was also published last summer. The portion in relation 
to the iion laiuis and the couPitry geneially is now in i)iess, and will shortly 
appear as a congressional document. It will l)c accompanied by numerous 
plates, and Vt^ill contain pakeontological matter of the highest interest. 

4. REGISTRY OF PERIODICAL PHENOMENA. 

In the spring of 18ol, with the assistance of Dr. Torrey and Di-. Fore- 
man, a list of plants to be observed for the period of flowering and fruit- 
ing was prepared. This was not issued until a comparatively late period 
of the season, when too late to be of much use to more southern observers. 
Copies were sent to all the meteorological observers reporting to the Insti- 
tution, and to such other individuals as were supposed to be interested in 
the matter. From many of these returns have been received which have 
been embodied in your report ; and it is hoped that by renewing the circu- 
lar earlier in the season, a much fuller series of observations will be obtained 
in regard to the periodical phenomena of animals and plants, which will 
permit of many interesting generalizations in a natural history, as well as 
meteorological point of view. It is proposed to modify the first list by the 
omission of some species not of general distribution, and the addition of 
others, as well as by calling attention more particularly than before to the 
phenomena of animal life. 



[108] 52 

5. INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES, 

The Smithsonian Int^titution muy f!o greal .service to the cause of science, 
by serving as the medium through \\hich applicntions for exchange or pur- 
chase of specimeuS of natural history between American and European col- 
lections may be interchanged. This does not necessarily involve an active 
part in regard to the specimens themselves, although in some instances such 
agency may be undertaken. There are many individuals in this country 
who have it in their power to procure duplicates of objects of natural his- 
tory in their immediate vicinity, which they would gladly exchange for 
those from other localities, at home or abroad. By encouraging such to 
make known their flesiderata and duplicates, and registering these system- 
atically, information might be immediately returned as to the best mode of 
procuring the one and disposing of the other, as well as of sending and 
receiving the parcels involved. In fact, numerous applications of the kind 
have been already received from individuals both in Europe and America, 
and an exchange satisfactory to both parties instituted. Lists of persons 
making such applications might be published in the annual reports, and 
thus brought within the cognizance of all. 

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

SPENCER F. BAIRD. 



APPENDIX A. 

AN ACCOUNT OF NATURAL HISTORY EXPLORATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES, 

DURING 1851. 

By Prof. Spencer F. Baird. 

Explorations under direction of the Topographical Bureau. — Natural 
science in America, almost equally with geographical, is under the great- 
est obligations to the Topographical Bureau, now under direction of Col. 
J. J. Abert, for additions to her domain. I need only mention in former 
years, the travels of Long, Nicollet, Emory, Fremont, Abert, Simpson, &c. 
The expeditions returned or commenced in 1851, will, when their results 
are published to the world, bear ample witness of even an increasing zeal of 
the officers of this bureau for the furtherance of natural science. 

The first to be noticed is the expedition of Captain Howard Stansbury 
to the unknown region of the Great Salt lake. This talented officer, assisted 
by Lieutenant Gunnison, of the same corps, and Albert Carrington, esq., 
Salt Lake city, after having spent many months in their explorations, re- 
turned last winter with a rich stock of material. Highly interesthig col- 
lections of animals and plants, many of them quite new were obtained, 
and much light thrown upon the subject of geographical distribution. Col- 
lections of fossils and rocks were also made, sufficient to cast a ray of light 
upon the geology of this remote region. The entire results of the expedi- 
tionwill be published during the present session of Congress, and will be 
accompanied by numerous plates of new animals, plants and fossil remains, 
as well as by maps and sketches of sceneiy. • The report on the geology 



53 [ 108 J 

and palaeontology will be presented by Proties^or Hall ; on the plants by 
Dr. Torrey ; on the invertehrata by Professor S, S. Haldeman, and on the 
vertebrates by Mr. Girard and myself. 

The survey of the Canadian fork of the Arkajisas, under Lieutenant 
Woodruff and Captain Sitgreaves, was completed in the autumn of 1850, 
the party returning to Washington in the winter. Dr. Woodhouse, the sur- 
geon of the expedition, and a naturalist of great ability, made many inte- 
resting collections; among them a new species of wolf, since characterized 
under the name o{ Canis frustror. Shortly after their return, Captain 
Sitgreaves and Dr. Woodhouse were again sent into the field to explore the 
Zuni river in California. This region, entirely unknown to naturalists, Vv'ill 
no doubt afford to Dr. Woodhouse a rich harvest. 

Department oj the Interior. — The most important scientific ex])loration 
under the care of this department is connected with the survey of the 
boundary between the United States and Mexico. The western part of 
the survey across the peninsula of California was conducted by Major 
Emory, of the corps of topographical engineers. Officially connected with 
him, as surgeon and naturalist, was Dr. Parry, who made very extensive 
collections of plants, now in the hands of Dr. Torrey, and including many 
new species. Informally attached to Major Emory's party, for a consider- 
able length of time, was Dr. John le Conte, the distinguished ento- 
mologist, who spent eighteen months in California, and made extensive 
zoological collections. The collections of Dr. Le Conte consist mainly of 
Coleopterous insects, of which at least one thousand species are new to science. 
All the other departments of zoology were, however, attended to, especially 
of herpetology, of which he procured the largest collection ever made on 
the Pacific coast. These are now in my hands for description. 

The eastern part of the line of the Mexican boundary survey luis also 
been zealously explored. The naturalists accompanying Col. J. D. Graham, 
chief of the scientific corps, Mr. J. H. Clark and Charles W^right, in their 
journey from Indianola to El Paso, and thent;e to the copper mines of the 
Gila, made very extensive collections, the former in zoology, the latter in 
botany, affording an excellent idea of the natural history of this region 
over a line of a thousand miles, and greatly exceeding in amount any ever 
made there before. The naturalists immediately connected with the party 
of Mr. Baitlett, the commissioner, (Messrs. Thurber and Bigelow, and 
others,) have also been active, especially in the field of botany and mine- 
ralogy, although but little beyond a small collection of plants has been sent 
in. Major Emory, on being assigned to this survey last summer, took with 
him Dr. Parry and Mr. Schott, both of whom will, no doubt, manifest afresh 
their zeal for natural history. 

Land Office. — The explorations imder the direction of the land office 
have mainly been in the departments of zoology and pakeontology, although 
the others have not been neglected. Dr. D. D. Owen has completed the 
geological survey of Minnesota, Iowa and Wisconsin, and his report is now 
ready to be published. It includes many new and interesting fossils ; among 
them several vertebrata from the Mauvaises Terres, and will constitute the 
most elaborate government report of the kind ever presented. 

Messrs. Foster and Whitney have also completed their geological sur- 
vey of Northern Michigan, and have the final results now in press. In 
working up the palaeontology, they have had the able assistance of Pro- 
fessor James Hall. The plates and cuts to the report are all finished, and 



[ 108 ] 54 

nearly all the text has been set up, so that the whole will appear at no 
distant period. 

Dr. Evans, formerly associated with Dr. Owen, has also been sent out by 
the land office on a geological examination of Oregon. During his passage 
out, he obtained and sent to the Land Office a magnificent specimen of the 
big horn, or Rocky Mountain sheep, [Ovis moniana,) which has been kindly 
presented to the Smithsonian Institution by the Commissioner of the General 
Land Office, Hon. J. Butterfield. 

State Explorations.— The legislature of Pennsylvania, at its last session, 
appropriated forty thousand dollars for the completion of the geological 
survey of the State, commenced many years ago, but allowed to remain 
for a long 4inie without any further appropriation. The sum above men- 
tioned includes the cost of publishing the results in two quarto volumes, 
with a large map. Among the points of especial interest in this report will 
be a monograph of the coal plants of the United States, by Mr. Leo Les- 
quereaux. 

North Carolina, almost the first in the field of geological exploration, 
has again authorized a general geoloj^iccil and natural history survey of the 
State, by Dr. E. Emmons, of Albany, well known for his services in a simi- 
lar survey of the State of New York. 

The State of Mississippi has also authorized a survey under direction of 
Colonel B. L. C. Wailes, of Washington, Mississippi, and Professor Mil- 
lington, of Oxford, Mississippi. The approjiriation for the survey consists 
of six thousand dollars per annum, one half devoted to the actual survey, 
the other towards maintaining the professorship of geology in the State 
university, of which Professor Millington is incumbent. 

Illinois, too, has followed the example of her sister States, and commenced 
a survey under Dr. Norwood. 

The survey of Alabama under Professor Tuomey is still in progress, as 
is also that of Canada under Mr. Logan. 

The following is a list of the States, as nearly as can be ascertained, 
which have commenced geological surveys, with the names of the persons 
engaged. Most of these have been commenced long since, and appropria- 
tions for their final completion not granted. Several States have, however, 
shown their willingness to resume the surveys. Only a few final reports 
have, however, been published. The States of Missouri and Florida, it is 
believed, are the only ones which have not yet authorized surveys. 



55 



tiosj 



States. 



New BruHswick. 
Nova Scotia . . . , 

Canada 

Maine 

Rhode Island. . . 
New Hampshire. 

Vermont 

Massachusetts. . 
New York 



New Jersey 

Pennsylvania . . 

Delaware 

Maryland 

Virginia 

North Carolina , 
South Carolina. 

Alabama 

Greorgia 

Florida 

Mississippi .... 
Tennessee .... 

Louisiana 

Kentucky 

Ohio 

Indiana 

Missouri 

Michigan 

IlKnois 

"Wisconsin .... 

Minnesota 

Iowa 

Texas 



Names. 



Mr. Gesner 

Dr. C. T. Jackson and Francis Alger 

Mr. Logan 

Dr. Jackson 

Dr. Jackson 

Dr. Jackson 

Prof. C. B. Adams 

Pres. Hitchcock 

Profs. Hall, Emmons, Mather, Vanuxem, Beck and Dr. 

De Kav 

Prof. H. b. Rogers 

Prof. H. D. Rogers 

Prof. J. C. Booth 

Dr. Ducatel 

Prof. Wm. B. Rogers 

Profs. D. Olmsted and E. Emmons 

Prof. Tuomey 

Prof. Tuomey 

Profs. Olmsted and Cotting 



Col. B. L. C. Wailes and Prof. Millington. 

Dr. Troost 

Prof. Forshey 

Prof. Mather (reconnaissance only) 

Prof. Mather 

Dr. D. D. Owen (reconnaissance) 



Drs. Houghton and Jackson; Messrs. Foster and Whitney. 

Dr. Norwood 

Dr. D. D. Owen 

Dr. D. D. Owen 

Dr. D. D. Owen 

Dr. F. Roemer 



Explorations by individuals. — At the request of the superintendent of 
the coast survey, Professor Agassiz last winter visited the reefs of Florida, 
for the purpose of making such examinations of the coral formations as 
might furnish information of use to the survey. In this he was highly 
successful, as well as in the secondary object of making collections of 
natural history. Many new species of animals were added to the Ameri- 
can fauna, especially of inrertebrata, as annelida, &c. Numerous fishes 
were also obtained, including several undescribed, and in a species of 
Sparodactylus the presence of the reptilian family of geckotyda^ was 
for the first time determined in the United States. The geological results 
will be published as an appendix to the report of the superintendent of the 
coast survey for 1851, 

Mr. L. F. Pourtales, while engaged on coast survey duty in Florida, 
paid especial attention to the radiata, and procured many species, some of 
which he has kindly presented to the Institution. Among them are Holo- 
thuria, Synapta, &c. 

Mr. W. Stimpson, of Boston, last summer visited the coast of Maine, 
and made important collections in zoology. Many new species of mol- 
lusca, radiata and annelida were obtained, and the existence of Myxine 
substantiated for the first time in North America, by the acquisition of sev- 



[108] 



56 



eral species ot this remarkable genus of fishes. Mr. Stimpson has since 
published some of his results in a special work. This gentleman is now 
with Professor Agassiz in Charleston, actively engaged in developing the 
natural history of the southern coast. 

Lieutenant J, D. Kurtz, of the engineer corps, has also been active in 
procuring specimens of the recent and fossil shells of the coast of South 
Carolina. To him the institution is indebted for a fine collection, embrac- 
ing most of the recent species, one hundred and ninety-four in number. 

Dr. T, M. Brewer and Horace Storer, esq., of Boston, spent some weeks 
in New Brunswick last spring, engaged in collecting the birds with their 
eggs, as well as other animals of tliat region. The geographical distribu- 
tion and habits of many of the former were finally settled by these gen- 
tlemen. 

Colonel McCail, inspector general United States army, while on duty in 
New Mexico and Texas, made important additions to our knowledge of 
North American birds. He has since published a valuable report on the 
subject, in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences. Captain 
McCown also procured many species of birds additional to our fauna, which 
have been described by Mr. Lawrence. 

Mr. J. A. Lapham, of Milwaukee, Dr. De Haas, of Wheeling, and Wm. 
Pidgeon, of Iowa, have all been successfully engaged in exploring the 
mounds of the west. 

I do not, of course, pretend here to give a complete record of all explo- 
rations, either by individuals or governments. Many others, no doubt, 
have been made, which have not come to the knowledge of the Institution. 
Still, if future reports of this kind be desired, pains will be taken to render 
them much fuller and more accurate than the present. 



APPENDIX B. 

LIST OF FOREIGN INSTITUTIONS TO WHICH VOLUME TWO OF SMITHSONIAN 
CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE HAS BEEN SENT. 

SWEDEN. 

LiDid — University Library. 

Stockholm — Kongliga Svei.ska Vcti iiskaps Akadeniien. 

Vitterhets Historic ocli Antiquitets Alcademien. 
Upsala — University Library. 

Societe Royale des Sciences a Upsal. 

NORWAY. 

Bergen — Bergen's Museum. 
ChrisHania — The University Libra i). 

ICELAND. 

Reykjvik — Islands Stiftigbokasafn. 



57 [ 108 J 



DENMARK. 

Copenhagen — Kongelige Norrliske Oldskrift Selskab. 

Kongelige Danske Videnskaberne.s Selskab, 
Kongelige Bibliothek. 

RUSSIA. 

Dorpat — Obseivatoire Imperial. 

Moscow — Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscou. 

St. Petersburg — Academic Imperiale des Sciences. 

Imperial Public Library. 

Administration Imperialc des Mine^i. 
Pulkowa — Observatoire Imperial. 

HOLLAND, 

Amsterdnm — Academic des Sciences. 

Haarlem — Hollandsche Maatscliappij der Wetensehappen. 

Ley den — University Library. 

Musee d'Histoire Naturellc. 
Middleburg — Zeeuwsche Genootscap der Wetenschappen. 
Rotterdam — Bataafsch Genootschap der proefondervindelijke Wijsbegeerte. 
Utrecht — Utregtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. 

GERMANY. 

Berlin — Koniglich-Preiissische Akademie der VVissenschaf'ten. 

K()nigliclie Bibliothek. 

Konigliclies Museum. 

Gesellschaft Naturforsclieuder Freunde. 
BoJin — University Library. 
Bremen — Stadt-Bibliot hek. 
Bonn — K. L. C. Akademie der Naturf'orscher. 
Dresden — Konio-liclu! Bibliothek. 
Erlangan — University Libra ry . 

Frankfurt am Main — Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 
Freiberg — Konigliche-Siichsische Bergakademie. 
Freiburg — University Library. 
Giessen — University Library. 
Greifswald — University Library. 
Goettingen — Konigliche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. 

University Lil)rary. 
Halle — University Library. 
Hamburg — Stadt-Bibliothek. 

University Library. 
Hanover — Royal Library. 
Heidelberg — University Library. 
Jena — University Library. 
Karlsruhe — Grossherzoglicbc Hof bibliothek. 
Koenigsberg — University Li bra ry . 
Leipzig — Stadt-Bibliothek. 

University Library. 

Konigliche Sachsische Gesellschaft. 

Fiirstliche Jablonowski 'sche Gesellschaft. 



[ 108 ] 58 

Marburg — Gesellsokaft zur Beforderung der Gesammten Naturwlssen- 
schaften. 
University Library. 
Munich — Koniglich Bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften. 

Konigliche Hof-und Staatsbibliothek. 
Prague — University Library. 

Konigliche Bohmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. 
Bohmisches Museum. 
Pesth — University Library. 

Ungarische Gelehrte Gesellschaft. 
Stuttgart — Konigliche OelFentliche Bibliothek. 

Verein fiir Vaterlandische Naturkunde. 
Tubingen — University Library. 

Vienna — K. K. Akademie der Orientalischen Sprachen. 
Kaiserliche Hofbibliothek. 
University Library. 

Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften. 
K. K. Naturalien Kabinet. 
Wurzburg — University Library. 

BELGIUM. 

Bruges — Societe des Sciences Naturelles. 

Bruxelles — Academie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux- Arts. 

Observatoire Royal. 
Gand — University Library. 
Liege — Societe Royale des Sciences. 
Louvain — Universite Catholique. 

FRANCE. 

Angers — Societe d' Agriculture, Sciences et Arts. 
Bordeaux — Academie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. 

Societe Linneenne. 
Caen — Academie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. 

Societe Linneenne de Normandie. 
Dijon — Academie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. 
Ltlle — Societe des Sciences, de 1' Agriculture et des Arts. 
Mende — Societe d'Agriculture, Commerce, Sciences et Arts. 
Lyon — Societe d'Agriculture, d'Histoire Naturelle et des Arts Utiles. 
Academie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. 
Societe Linneenne. 
Marseilles — Academie des Sciences, Lettres et Arts. 
Metz — Academie Nationale. 
Montpellier — Societe Archeologique . 
Orleans — Societe des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. 
Paris — L'lnstitut de France. 

Societe des Antiquaires. 
" Asiatique. 
" de Geographic. 
" Geologique de France. 
*' Fran^aise de Statistique Univergelle. 



59 [ 1C8 ] 

Societe Philomatique. 

" de TEcole des Cliartes. 

Eibliothcque Nalionale. 

Bibliothrque du Jardin dos Plantes. 

L'Tnstitut Historique. 

L'Ecole des Mines. 

Societe Ethnologique. 

Bibliotheque de la Ville de Paris, 

Societe Nationale et Centrale d'Agriculture. 

Ministere de la Marine. 
Strasbourg — Societe des Sciences, Agriculture et Arts, du Bas Rhin. 

Academic des Sciences Naturelles. 
Toulouse — Academic des Scieiices, Inscriptions et Belles-Lcttres. 

SWTTZERLANl). 

Basel — Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 

Antiquarische Gesellschaft. 
Bern — Schweizerische Gesellschaft filr die Gesammten NaturwissenschaFten. 

Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 
Geneve — Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle. 
JYeuckatel — Societe des Sciences Naturelles. 
Zurich — Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 

Gesellschaft fiir Vaterliindische Alterthiimer in Zurich. 

ITALY. 

Bologna — Istituto delle Scienze ed Arti Liberali. 
Catania — Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali. 
Florence — Accademia del Cimento. 

Biblioteca Magliabecchiana. 
Lucca — Reale Accademia Lucchese di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. 
Milan — Biblioteca Brera, Imperiale Regio Instituto Lombardo di Scienze, 

Lettere ed Arti. 
Modena — Societa Italiana delle Scienze. 
Maples — Reale Accademia delle Scienze, e Belle Lettere. 
Padua — Imperiale Regia Academia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. 
Pisa — University Library. 
Palermo — Royal Academy of Sciences. 
Rome — Accademia Romana di Archeologia. 

Biblioteca Vaticana. 

Accademia Pontifica dei Nuovi Lincei. 
Turin — Accademia Reale delle Scienze. 
Venice. — Biblioteca Marciana. 

PORTUGAL. 

Lisbon — Academia Real dos Sciencias. 

SPAIN. 

Madrid — Real Academia Espanola. 

" " de la Historia. 

Academia Real de Ciencias. 



r 108 J 60 

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. 

Belfast — Natural History and Philosophical Society. 
Cambridge — Cambridge Philosophical Society. 
University Lilirary. 
Observatory. 
Penzance — Royal Geological Society of Cornwall. 
Dublin — Dublin University Philosophical Society. 
Royal Irish Academy. 
Library of Trinity College. 
Edinburg — Royal Society. 

Royal Scottish Society of Arts. 
Royal Observatory. 
Library of Faculty of Advocates. 
Society of Antiquaries of Scotland. 
University Library. 

Wernerian Society of Natural History. 
Glasgow — University Library. 
Greenwich — Royal Observatory. 
London — Royal Society. 

" Astronomical Society. 
" Asiatic Society. 
" Geographical Society. 
" Institution. 
Society of Antiquaries. 

Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Com- 
merce. 
Linnean Society. 
Geological Society. 
Institution of Civil Engineers. 
Zoological Society. 
Entomological Society. 
Statistical Society. 
Microscopical Society. 
Ethnological Society. 
British Archa:;ological Association. 
British Museum. 

Library of the House of Commons. 
Horticultural Society. 
Chemical Society. 

Archa:;ological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. 
Board of Admiralty. 

Library of the Hon. the East India Company. 
College of Physicians and Surgeons. 
British Association. 
Leeds — Philosophical and Literary Society. 
Manchester — Literary and Philosophical Society. 
Oxford — Bodleian Libiary. 

Radcliffe Observatory. 
at. Andrews — University Library. 



61 [ 108 ] 



fiTlEF.CE. 



Jithens — University Libi'ary. 



TURKEY. 

Constantiiioplc — Liljrnry of (l.o Sultan. 



AFRICA. 

Grand Cairo — The Egyptian Society. 
Liberia — Government Library. 

ASIA. 

Mlahahad — Mission College. 

Batavia — Bataviaasche Genootschap van Konsten en Wetenschappen. 
Bombay — Royal Asiatic Society. 
Geographical Society. 
Calcutta — Asiatic Society. 
Ceylon — Asiatic Society. 
Hon^ Kong — Asiatic Society of China. 
Madras — Literary Society. 
Manilla — Royal Economical Society of the Phillipine Islands. 

WEST INDIES AND SOUTH AMERICA. 

Bogota — Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais. 
Caracas — Sociedad Economica de Amigos del Pais. 
Hahana — Real Sociedad Economica. 
Rio Janeiro — Lnperial Erazilian Historical Society. 
Chili — Government Libra ry . 



APPENDIX C. 

LIST or ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM OP THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 
DURING THE YEAR 1851. 

1. Box of Coals Iroiii tlin Island of Formosa. Frovi the. State. Department. 

'1. Slab of Itacolumite or flexible san<lstone, from the province of Minas Geraes, Brazil. 

From Charles^ Br Selding, E^q. 

3. Two boxes containing specimens of European birds, reptiles, tislies, &c. From /•'. 
Sturm, Est/. 

4. Skull and liorns of Elk {Eluphns caiiade.vm.s) trom Bear river, Utah. Saddle used by 
Columbia river Jndian women. From Major O. Croxs, U. S. A. 

5. Keg of h.-ihcs from Constantinople. Fromllo?/. Geo. P. Manh. 

6. P'ossil wood from great tidls of the Columbia. Sedimentary deposits from Mineral 
Springs in Utah. From Major O. Cross, If. S. A. 

7. Reptiles from California and Oregon. From Dr. A. f. S/i/to//. 

8. Tooth of Fossil horse, from Ohio. Fossil Cyi'thorhyllnm, Dover, T«nn. Frovi Leo 
LesqiiereauT, Es(/. 

9. Cast of PulaotJieriiiM Frouti. From Dr. H. A. Proitt. 

10. Skull of Chamois, {Capelhv rupicapra} and of Roebuck, {Cervus ca-preola.) From 
Wilhelm Hei?ie, Esq. 



[ 108 J 62 



11. Dress and equipment of an Ooraug Kayah or Bornese Warrior. Fiom Hon. J. B. 
Balestier. 

12. Specimens of Otsego Bass, (Coiegojttcs Otsego.) From, Daniel B. Boden, Esq. 

13. Collection of plants from Hungary. Specimens of Ors/rns Columba<xe?isis. From 
Arthur Sehott, Esq. 

14. Five skulls and horns of deer, {Cervus virginianus.') From J, S. Boiomaii, Esq. 

15. Gold and cinnabar ores from California. From . 

16. 17. Two kegs of fishes from the Ohio river at Cincinnati, Ohio. Fro7>i S. F. 
Baird, Esq. 

18, 19. Two kegs of fishes, reptiles, &c., from Racine, Ohio. From Dr. P. R. Hoy. 

20. Fossil bones from cave near Danville, Ky. From Prof. G. C. Schaeffer. 

21. Fossil wood, from Lebanon, Ky. From Prof. G. C. Schaeffer. 

22. Skeletons of elk (Cervus canadeiisis) and of fallow deer {Cerws dania) from Colonel 
Tuley's park, Clark Co., Va. From Dr. C. B. R. Kemierly. 

23. Collection of fish, reptiles, invertebrata, &c., from near Charleston, S. C. From 
Chris. Girard, Esq. 

24. Fishes and reptiles from French Creek, Pa. From Prof. L. D. Williams. 

25. Fishes and reptiles from Jamaica. From Prof. C. B. Adams. 

26. Reptiles collected in California. From Dr. J. L. Le Co7ite. 

27. Skeleton of California vulture {Cathartes Calif or nianus.) From Dr. J. L. Le. Conte. 

28. Fishes from river St. Lawrence. From Dr. F. B. Hough. 

29. Eggs of guillemot. From W. B. Blaney, Esq. 

30. Specimens of ilfe«oJm?tc-/i?<.5, &c., from Lake Erie. FromR. K. Witislow, Esq. 

31. Skin of bighorn (Ovis monta?ia) male, and skull of female, from the Upper Missouri. 
From the Hon. J. Biuterfield. 

32. Fishes, &c., collected at Cooperstown, N. Y., Coxsackie, &c. From S. F. Baird, Esq. 

33. Fossil vertebrata from the Mauvaises Terres; skulls of wolves; skin of bighorn, {Ovis 
montcma.) From Capt. S. Von Vliet, TJ. S. A. 

34. Fossil infusoria from Bermuda, &c. From Professor J. W. Bailey. 

35. Jaws of .Swr«5. From Fletcher Slayman, Esq. 

.10. Cast of bones of fossil seal, from Richmond, V'a. From Dr. J. V/yman. 

37. Antlers of reindeer, {Tarandtcs hastalis,) from Isle Royal. From Col. J. W. Foster. 

38. Fishes from the vicinity of Reading, Pa. FromS. F. Baird, Esq. 

39. Specimen of " fish with legs,'' {Siredon lichenoides,') from near Santa Fe. From Dr. 
J. Leidy. 

40. Reptiles collected in Florida. From Prof. J. W. Bailey. 

41. Fossil specimen of capelin, {MallotKs,) in clay nodule, from the Ottawa river. From 
IV. E. Guest, Esq. 

42. Fishes'from Ogdensburg, N. Y. From W. E. Guest, Esq. 
48. Specimens of reptiles. From Prof. E. Emmons. 

44. Keg of fishes from Florida. From Prof. L. Agassiz. 

46. Specimen of Spanish mackarel, {Cybium maculatum,) from the Potomac river. 

46. Horns of Elk, {Cervus canade?isis,) from Clearfield co., Pa. From Prof. S. S. Haldt- 
man. 

47. Keg of reptiles, fishes, &c., collected along the Nile^ From the Hon. Geo. P Marsh. 

48. §p?cimen of Indian clotb fioffi a lUQund ia Ohi9» From GqI. J, TT. Fester. 



63 [ 108 ] 



49. Specim«n of horned frog, (Phrynosoma eornutum) from Arkansas. From Colonel 
Swords, U. S. A. 

50. Four cases of reptiles, fishes, mammals, &c., from Greenland and Denmark. From 
Schach Steenherg, Esq. 

61. Two kegs of fishes from Racine, Wisconsin. From Dr. P. R. Hoy. 

52. Indian pottery from near Ogdensburg, N. Y. From Wm. E. Guest, Esq. 

53. Remains o? Mastodon, from Gloucester, Va. From Rev. Ckas. Ma/ni. 

54. Remains of Mastodon, from Gloucester, Va. Fro7n. Capt. Mar chant, 

55. Specimen of Pelamis from Siam. From Hon. J. B. Balestier. 

56. Specimens of fishes from Moosehead Lake, Me. From Chas. Girard, Esq. 

57. Duplicates of the Bonaparte collection of European reptiles and fishes. From the 
Academy of Natural Sciences. 

58. Reptiles and fishes from Madrid, N. Y. From E. O. Dayton, Esq. 

59. Minerals from New Brunswick. From Prof. Chipman. 

60. Specimens of " Leuciscus pygmaeus " Dekay, from Rockland co., N. Y. From Jno. 
G. Bell, Esq. 

61. Specimens of Hippocampus from Norfolk, Va. Fmni Charles Lanman, Esq. 

62. Keg of fishes and invertebrata from Key "West, Florida. From L. F. Pourtales, Esq. 

63. Three boxes Geological specimens, collected by Dr. D. D. Owen. Fro7n the Hon. 
J. Butter field. 



APPENDIX E. 

REPORT UPON SOME FOSSIL MAMMALIA AND CHELONIA, FROM NEBRASKA. 

By Joseph Leidy, M. D. 

Professor Henry, Secretary Smithsoninn Imtitution : 

Dear Sir: At your request I have prepared the following brief report 
upon the fossil remains of remarkable Mammalia and Chelonia of Nebraska 
Territory, a collection of which was transmitted to me by the Smithsonian 
Institution for investigation and the preparation of a special memoir. 

The fossils were obtained in that portion of country known to the hunters 
and trappers under the name of "Manvaises Terres," or "Bad Lands." 
They were collected principally by Mr. Thaddeus Culbertson and Ca])tain 
Stewart Van Vliet, U. S. A., and were procured for the cabinet of the 
Smithsonian Institution through the untiring zeal of Prof. Eaird. 

The characters of the remains indicate the locality from which they were 
derived to be an extensive lacustrine deposit of the eocene period. 

The Mammalian remains consist of one existing genus, Rhinoceros ; one 
genus known only as extinct, PalcEoiherium ; and seven genera, .SrchcBo- 
therium, Palceotherium, Oreodon, Me.rycoidodon, Eucrotaphun , Agrio- 
c/icerits and Arctodon, which are new to Palaeontology. 

The Chelonian remains consist of the two existing genera Testudo and 
Emys. 

Of Rhinoceros there are two species : 

1. Rhinoceros Nebraskensis, Leidy: Pioc. Acad. Nat. Sciences of 
Philadelphia, vol. v. p. 121. A species about the size of the R. minutus, 



[ 108 ] 64 

Cuvier. Established upon the greater portion of a face and lower jaw 
containing all the molares. There were^also in the collection several frag- 
ments of jaws with teeth, and an entire i; tibia, of several other individuals 
of the same species. 

2. Rhinoceros occidentalis, Leidy : ih. 119, 276. A species little 
more than half the size of R. indicus. Founded upon a fragment of the 
lower jaw with the posterior molar tooth, fragments of nine superior mo- 
lares, two entire inferior molares, and fragments of several others. 

Of Palajotherium three species are indicated : 

1. Pal^otherium Proutii, Owen, JYorwood and Evans : ih. 66 ; 
Leidy : ih. 122. This is an enormous species of Palaiotherium far sur- 
passing any previously described, and approaching the elephant or mastodon 
in size. It was first discovered and described* by Dr. Hiram A. Prout of 
St. Louis. The specific name was incidentally given as above referred. 

2. Pal^otherium Bairdii, Leidy : Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, vol. 
V. p. 122. A species about two-thirds the size of Palsotherium crassum, 
Cuvier, established upon a cranium with a portion of the face containing 
the true molares; and all the superior and inferior molares with portions of 
the jaws of a second individual ; and several fragments of a lower jaw of 
a younger individual. The species is named in honor of Prof. S. F. Baird, 
of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Arch^otherium is a remarkable genus of Pachydermata, which, as 
since ascertained by the inspection of a fragment of a face containing 
several true molares, in the possession of Dr. David D. Owen, of Indiana, 
is closely allied to Hyracotheriura, Owm. 

ARCHiEOTHERiUM MoRTONi, Leidy : ih, 92. This species was founded on 
a fragment of a face containing the third and fourth premolar and the 
alveolus for the first true molar of the left side. 

It is named in honor of Dr. S. G. Morton, late President of the Academy 
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

PcELUOTHERiuM, is a genus of Ruminantia allied to Dorcatherium, Kaup. 

Pgeluotherium Wilsoni, Leidy : ih. iii, 322. Established upon nearly 
the whole anterior portion of a cranium with the lower jaw, containing all 
the molares. 

The species is named in honor of Dr. T. B. Wilson, of Philadelphia. 

The genera Oieodon, Merycoidodon, Eucrotnphus, and probably Agrio- 
chcerus, form members of a family of Ruminant Pachyderms, characterized 
by the teeth forming a closed arch in both jaws with the following formula: 
inc. I can. | pre mol. :J mol. |. 

1. Oreodon priscum, Leidy : ih. v, 238 ; ih. 276. A s])ecies about the 
size of a common sheep, founded upon the greater portions of six crania, 
one of which upon one side contains all the teeth of both jaws in a perfectly 
entire condition. There are also in the collection fifteen fragments of jaws 
with teeth of several other individuals. 

2. Oreodon gracile, Leidy: ih. 239. A much smaller species than the 
preceding, founded upon the greater part of the superior and inferior max- 
illoe, containing the molares. 

* Fragments of both sides of a lower jaw containing the posterior three molares, an en- 
tire superior molare and several fragments of others of one individual, and the posterior in- 
ferior molare (mutilated) of a second, have been kindly loaned by Dr. Frout for further 
description. • 



(>;> 



[108] 



Merycoidodon CulbertoOXI!, Leidy: ih. iv, 47. Closely allied to 
Oreodon priscum and about the same size, based upon a iragment of the 
lower jaw containing the true molares, and a fragment of the upper jaw 
with the posterior two molares. 

EncROTAPHU.s Jacksoni, Leidy : ib. 92. Founded upon the posterior 
portion of a cranium about the size of that ot Oreodon priscum, but differ- 
ing from it in a remarkable degree in the very large size of the squamous 
portion of the temporal bones. 

The species is named in honor of Dr. Samuel Jackson, Professor of the 
Institute of Medicine in the University of Pennsylvania. 

AGRiocH.a::Rus antiquus, Lcidy : ib. 121. Established upon a large 
portion of the face and inferior maxilla ; containing nearly all the molares, 
and four superior and two inferior molares of a second individual. 

The remaining new genus is a carnivorous animal, closely allied to the 
existing genus Ursus. It is characterized from fragments of three teeth, 
under the name of Autodon. Pro. Acad. Nat. Sciences, vol. v., p. 278. 
The species may be named Autodon vetustum, Leidy. 

The Chelonian remains consist of three species of the genera Tesiudo and 
Emys. 

1. Testudo lata, Lcidy : Pro. Acad. Nat. Sciences, vol. v., p. 173. A 
large species, founded upon a specimen consisting of a great portion of the 
carapace and sternum, broken into two pieces. In its perfect condition, its 
length has been about tvvo feet, and its breadth about tv/cnty inches. 

1. Emys iieisiispherica, Lcidy : Pro. Acad. Nat. Sciences, vol. v., p. 173. 
Established upon a specimen consisting of about one-third of the carapace 
and four-fifths of the sternum-. When perfect, it has been about nine and a 
half inches in length, and seven and a half in breadth. 

2. Emys nebrascensis, /,e/*rfy : ib. 172. Stylem\''s necrascensis, i6. 
172. A species established upon the greater ])ortions of two individuals. 
In the entire condition, it has been about seven inches long, and five and 
three-fourths broad. 

JOSEPH LEIDY. 
Mis.— 3 



REPORT 



or 



THE GENERAL ASSISTANT, 



WITH BEFBRENCR TO THE 



METEOROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE. 



[ i08 ] (38 

To Joseph Henry, LL.D., 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Sir : I herewith present to you the report of operations duiing the year 
1851, relative to the meteorolop-ical correspondence enti'usted to my charge 
as Geneial Assistant. 

\'ery respectfully, vonr obciiient servant, 

E. FOREMAN. 



METEOROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE. 

The plan adopted for obtaining a corps of meteorological observers for 
the Smithsonian Institution consisted in issuing a circular letter of date 
November 1, 1848, which was signed by the Secretary anfl Prof. Espy, 
requesting the co-operation of those interested in the subject. This was 
distributed by members of Congress during the winter of 1848-9, to such 
of their constituents as were judged by them to be favorable to the under- 
taking. 

A L^rge number of communications in reply accumulated during the win- 
ter, and in February, 1849, the correspondence was arranged, the neces- 
sary answers prepared and sent with blank forms for the registers of the 
weather, and a copy of the annual report of 1849, which contained com- 
munications on meteorology. An address book for this special correspond- 
ence was also prepared., 

The number of persons who offered their assistance at that time, or from 
whom we were informed that co-operation might be expected, may be stated 
as follows : 



Maine 2') 

New Hampshire 8 

Vermont 7 

Massaclnisetts 18 

Rhode Island T) 

Connecticut 10 

New York 56 

New Jersey 12 

Pennsylvania 55 

Delaware 2 



Alabama 14 

Mississippi 17 

Louisiana 4 

Texas 3 

Arkansas ; 1 

Missouri 5 

Tennessee 11 

Kentuckv 12 

Ohio... I 27 

Michigan 10 



Maryland , 11 j Indiana 16 

Virginia 22 I Illinois 11 

North Carolina. 8 I Iowa 4 

South Carolina 4 j Wisconsin 14 

Georgia'' 7 

Florida,' 5; Total : 412 

Of this number, one hundred and forty-three were correspondents o^ 
Prof. Espy, w4io had been previously engaged in collecting observations 
vmder the direction of the Navy Department. To these also a circular and 
documents were sent, as it was desirable to retain the assistance of prac- 
ticed observers. From nineteen of this number we have received records 
of observations, and ten of them still continue to make monthly returns to 
the Institution. 

Oilers of service are continrially made, and in accordance with our plan 
and at the request of the applicant, meteorological blank forms and direc- 
tions are invariably sent. The regular conduct of a journal, however, re- 



69 [ 108 ] 

quiring more porseverancc and punctuality tlian most persons are willing 
to bestow, we have a very large number of applications ol'tliis kind whicli 
have j)rove(l harien ol any res'ult.s. Tlie whole jiumberol'the pi'escul corps 
ol' observers to tlif-' end cf JX-cember, IHol, is 1-")'J, the larger part of whom 
have contributed their obser^•ations from March, 1849, when the system 
commenced, a period of nearly three years. They are distributed over the 
various States as follows: 



Maine 8 

New ITaiiipshiri' 4 

Vermont 8 

Massachusetts 7 

Rhode Island 1 

Connecticut 3 

New York 19 

Pennsylvania 15 

Delaware 1 

New Jersey 3 

Maryland 5 

Virginia 11 

North Carolina 2 

South Carolina :'• 

Georgia 2 

Florida 3 

Alahama 5 



Mississippi 2 

Louisiana 1 

Texas 8 

Arkansas 

Missouri 1 

Tennessee 4 

Kentucky , 4 

Ohio ..." 10 

Michigan 6 

Indiana 4 

Illinois , 2 

Iowa 8 

Vrisconsin 19 

Minnesota 2 

Oregon 1 

Total 155 



This list is increasirig partly by voluntary offers and partly from a re- 
quest made to the observers in tlie ^iouthern and Western States to enlist 
others in the Avork, in their respective districts. The number is not per- 
mitteil to diminish, if it can be avoich'd, by the discojitinuance of an ob- 
server. When such is reported to us as probable, the retiring observer is 
iniifoi'mly requested to place the register in the hands of a suitable succes- 
sor, and kec]) the chain oi observations unbroken. The increase has been 
marked within a few months past, and it is satisfactory to note that the 
greater number come trom the Southerii and Western States, in which our 
obsei'vers have hereiolore iieen but eoniparafiveiy few. Fi-om the occa- 
sional discontinuance of sonu', and the hetpuiit additions uf others, our 
list is constantly fluctuating in effective sti'engfh ; the numerical force can 
be known, hou-evei', at any time. 

It is proper to state that for extra liniitai stations we lia\f an observer 
each in Nova Scotia, Camida West, 'New (xrenada and Bermuda, from all 
ofwhich manuscri{)t registeis are received, except frouj the last. His ex- 
cellency Charles Elliot, governor of Bermuila, has ordered that the Royal 
Gazette, containing a weekly register of llie wealhei in Herniuda, be regu- 
larly sent to this Institution. 

Observations have been received at tlie Smithsonian IriStitution, duiing 
the year 18-31, from the following persons: 



[108] 



70 



List of persons from ivhoin meteorological observations have been received 
at the Smithsonian Institution, during the year ISol. 



State. 



Name. 



Maine 



New HAr»rp'jHiiiE 



VERMONT' 



Massachusetts 



Rhode Island- 
Connecticut-- 



Rev. Samuel H. Merriil--- 

George B. ]3ai rows 

James G. Garlainl 

Rufas Buck 

S. A. Eveleth 

Joshua Bartlett — - • 

J. D. Parker---- 

Christopher Prince •■ 

Dr. Jose])h L. Stevens 

Dr. William Prescott 

Robert ,C. Mack - 

Rev. Levi W. Leonard 

Rev. Ziulock Thompson — 

Charles C. Frost 

D. P. Thompson- 

Prof. W. H. Parker 

R. M. Manley 



Residence. 



Old Town. 

Fryeburg. 

Biddeford. 

Bucksport. 

Windham. 

Whitehead. 

Steuben. 

Thomaston. 

Castine. 

Concord. 

JiOndonderry 

Dublin. 

Burlington. 

Brattlel)oro. 

Moutpelier. 

Middlebury. 

Randolpii. 



Jacol) Batclieldcr Lynn. 

Cliarles J. Gilliss Lowell. 

Samuel F. Haven Worcester. 

WilHarn Bacon Puchmond. 

Prof. E. S. Snell j Amherst. 

Amasa Kolcomb Southwick. 

John G, Metcalf-- Mendon. 

Thomas Bailey '. New Bedford. 

Henry Rice-- ; N. Attleboro. 

Martin N. Root | By field. 

CM. Freeman WiUiamstow'n. 



Prof. A. Caswell. 



Providence. 



New York- 



Rev. T. L. Edwards ! New London. 

Prof. Aug. W. Smith Middletown. 

Pi-of. E. Cutler ! New Haven. 

M. H. Cobb North Colebrook. 

Dr. Ovid Plumb ; Salisbury. 

R. H. Phelps Windsor. 

Chas. H. Hoadley HartfonL 

i 

L. F. Munger I Albion. 

C. F. Maurice | Sing Sing. 

E. A. Dayton ! Madrid. 



71 

List— Continued, 



[108] 




New York — Cont'd. 



Dr. F. B. Hough Somerville. 

John Bowman I Van Buren. 



Walter D. Yale---- 

J.E. Breed 

E. N. By ram 

John Lefferts--^--- 
James M. Tower--- 
Prof. O. W. Morris- 
John P. Fairchihl - - 

John F. Jenkins 

Albert Hosmer---- 

Moses Lane • 

J.W.Hart ■ 

Mandren Linus 

James N. Ball 

James B. Trevor--- 

L. A. Beai'dsley 

William E. Guest-- 
Henry L. Dinmore- ■ 
Thomas B. Arden-- 
Cornelius Chase — - 



New Jersey- 



Prof. A.D. Frost-. 

R. L. Cooke- 

W. A. Whitehead- 



Pennsylvania ' ■ 



Lorin Blodget 

Prof. J. H. Coffin- 

Edward Fenderich 

Prof. M.Jacobs 

Joseph Edwards / 

J. L.Miller S 

Rev. J. G. Ralston 

John Wise 

John .J ackson 

Andrew Roulston---^ 

David Peelor 

Cory don Marks 

Dr. R. P. Stevens 

Dr. Paul Swift- 

Ebenezer Hance 

E. T. Kluxer 

Prof. L. D. Williams 

Dr. J. Heiseley 

OrrinT. Hobbs 

E. L, Dodder ^ 



Honcsville. 

Smithville. 

Sag Harbor. 

Lodi. 

Watervillc. 

New York. 

Seneca Falls. 

Salem Centre. 

Buffalo. 

Springville. 

Oswego. 

Sackett's Harbor, 

North Nassau, 

[jockport. 

South Edmeston. 

Ogdensburg. 

Syracuse. 

Phillipstown. 

Chatham. 

Burlington. 
Bloomfield. 
Newark. 

Sugar Grove. 
East on. 
Pittsburof. 
Gettysburg. 

Lima. 

Norristown. 

J-ancaster. 

Darby. 

Frceport. 

Indiana. 

Manrhester. 

Ceres. 

Philadelphia, 

Morrisville. 

Nazareth. 

Meadville. 

Harrisburg. 

Randolph. 

Easton. 



tJ08] 



Lpt — Continued . 



State. 



Maryland- 



Virginia -S-. 



North Carolina- 
South Carolina-' 



Georgia- 
Florida - 

Alabama 



Name. 



Residence. 



Prof. W. F. Hopkins j Annapolis. 

Dr. Lewis F. Steiner ; Frederick. 

Dr. William Baer — | Sykesville. 

Josiah Jones-- -- --' Walkersville. 

i 

Dr. F. J. Meltaner : Prince Edward C. H, 

Win. Skeen ' Ilunlersville, 

Lieut. R. F, Astrop \ Diamond Grove. 

Charks Meriwether- - j Charlottesville. 

Dr . Will . N. Patton ; Le wisburg. 

David Turner Richmond . 

William C. Magan Christiansburg. 

Dr. A. M. (jrinnan , Madison. 

Prof. G. R. Rosseter , Butfalo. 



D. Morrell ...^ — j Lake Scuppernong. 

Prof. .la.s. Pliillips- ; Chapel Hill. 

Dr. John P. Barralt- Barrattsville. 

Prof. Lewis R. Gibbes Charleston. 

Dr. J. A. Young ; Camden. 

H. W. Ravenel St. Johns, Berkeley. 

T. Carpenter I Camden. 

Col. W. Wallace Columbia. 



Richard T. Gibson- 

Dr. George F. Cooper-- 



John Newton • 

John Pearson ■ 

Judge Augustus Steele- 



S. J. Gumming • 

Benj. F. Holby ■ 

Dr. Charles F. Percival--' 

A. Wincheli ■■--■ 

Dr. T. C. Osborne 



Mississippi 

Louisiana 

Texas 



Geo. L. C. Davis- 
Thomas Oakley- - 



Whitemarsh Island. 
Perry. 

Chesnut Hill. 
Pensacola. 
Cedar Keys. 

Monroeville. 

Weokaville. 

Benton. 

Eutaw. 

Erie. 

Natches. 
Jackson. 



Dr. E. H. Barton | New Orleans. 

I 

Col. H. Yoakum ! Huntsviile. 

Prof. T. C. Ervendberg-«--l New Wied. 



73 

List — Continiied. 



[1081 



State. 



Name; 



Texas {continued)- 



Tennessek- 



Residonce. 



James Henderson-- - - ^ San Antonio. 

Dr. Samuel K. Jenninsfs — ' Austin. 

! 

Dr. W. W. McNeil} -| Fayetteville. 

Prof. A. P. Stewart i Lebanon. 

W. M. Stewart j Clarksville. 

R. Harris \ Memphis. 

O. W. Morris - Knoxville. 



Kentucky 



Ohio- 



Michigan- 



Indiana- 



Illinois 



John E. Younglove — - 
A. Beatty-- 

Laurence Young— 

Pro!'. S. Y. McMasters- 



Bowling Green. 
Prospect Hill. 
Springdale. 
Drennon Spring. 



Prof\ G. N. Allen | Oberlin. 

Prof. W. W. Mather j Athens. 

Dr. E. C. Bidwell | Keene. 

George L. Crookham \ Jackson. 

S. N. Sanford- -- ' Granville. 

Gustavus A. Plyde— I Cleaveland. 

J. D. McMathews ! Hillsboro. 

Theo. G. Wormley i Columbus. 

F. A. Benton I Mansfield . 

Stephen S. Dorsey ! Republic. 

Rev. Geo. DutHeld i Detroit. 

Dr. W. M. Campbell Battle Creek. 

Thomas Whelpley Brest. 

Dr. J. Hollister- - Grand Rapids. 

Dr. H. R. Schetterly Howell. 

Charles Betts - Burr Oak. 

lllinoix' Wainwright Clinton. 

VV. W. Austin ; Ritdunond. 

Dr. John T. Plunimer-- — Richmontl. 

Prof. J. Tii)/|ley (ireencastle. 

Dr. D. D. Owen ISew Harmony 

Prof, (jardner Jones- South Ben<l. 

Daniel H. Rolieris Newport. 



Prof. P. P. Brown Upper Alton, 

J)r.. S. B. Mead Augusta. 

Henry Talcott ' Chicago. 

Prof. Joel Hall Athens. ■ 



Missouri -■ 



Rev. N. Scarritt - 



Westport. 



[ 108] 



74 

List — Continued. 



State. 



Iowa- 



Wisconsin " 



Minnesota Ter. 



Oregon 



Name. 



T. S. Parvin- 
Dr. Asa Horr 
I.E.Bali--.. 



I. A. Laphain -- 

Rev. John Grid ley-- 

Orrin Dinsmore 

Eiiwanl Spencer 

Prof. S. P. Lathrop. 
Dr. F. B.Mills---- 
James C. Brayton-- 

Thomas Gay- 

C. F. Pomeroy----- 
J. L. Pickard- 



Rev. Jos. W. Holt, per J. 

B. Culver 

Robert Hopkins 



Georn-e A. Atkinson- 



British Possessions-; Capt. J. H. Lefroy 
i Henry Poole 



Residence. 



Muscatine. 

Dubuque. 

Keokuk. 

Milwaukie. 

Kenosha. 

Emerald Grove. 

Summit. 

Beloit. 

Baraboo. 

Aztalan. 

Belle Fontaine. 

Green Lake. 

Platteville. 



Sandy Lake. 
Travers des Sioux. 

Oregon City. 

TorontOj Canada W 
Pictou, Nova Scotia. 



Distribution of Instruments. 

According to the terms of the circular letter of November, 1849, the 
use of instruments for observation were promised to those persons who 
should prove most capable and who occupied the most important places. 
This has been complied with to the greatest limit permitted by the means 
of the Institution applicable to meteorology. It was early seen, however, 
that the applications were so numerous, the country so extensive, and the 
number of sets which could be furnished so few, that it was determined to 
modify the plan. All applicants for instruments were accordingly notified 
that they could be obtained by themselves defraying half the cost; the 
other half being charged to the Institution. Manyhave availed themselves 
of this provision — being more willing to accept these terms in consequence 
of the superior construction of the articles, all of them comparable with 
each other and the best standards at home and abroad. 

The Institution has adopted the policy of favoring the more distant places 
in the distribution of instruments, when furnished at its own expense — 
including distant settlements in the new States, or on the extreme frontiers, 
such as would not likely be otherwise ])rovided for, and from whom ob- 
srvations would not otherwise be obtained. It also avoids furnishing them 
to colleges, or other institutions of learning, it being presumed that such 



75 



[108] 



articles are or should be a part of their establishment. Nor could they be 
supplied to the older and more thickly seltled States, where a number of 
good instruments already exist. 

The following tables exhibit the instruments distributed and the places 
supplied, also the terms upon which they were linnished to the observer: 

Exi'LANATiONs OF Abbr KviATiONs. — Ps. rsychronicf (ji ; Br. Barometer; Tr. Tlierraomcter; 
"Wv. Wind Vane; Kg. Rain Gauge. 

Instruments deposited zvith observers and in i}art paid for hy them. 



Names. 



L. F. Munger . . . . 
G. L. C. Davis.., 
"W. W. Wilson... 
N. Scholtieid . . . . 
James M. Tower. 

J. Stickney 

S. N. Sanford.... 

E. H. Barton 

John Newton 

David Peelor . . . . 

J. B. Trevor 

E. A. Dayton . . .. 

G. F. Cooper 

J. G. Ralston . . . . 

A. P. Stewart 

Asa llorr 

S. P. Lathrop.... 
Dr. E.G. Bid well 

B. F.Mills 

P. P. Brown 

D. Turner 

W. Wallace 




Albion, N. Y 

Natchez, Miss 

Pittsburg, Penna. . . 
San Francisco, Cal. 
Watervillc, N. Y . . 
Evansville, Ind. , . . 

Granville, O 

New Orleans, l^a. . . 
Chesnut Hill, Fla. . 
Indiana, Penna. . . . 
Lock port, N. Y ... 

Madrid, N.Y 

Perry, Geo 

Norristown, Penna. 
Lebanon, Tenn. 



Br. Tr. 

Br. 

Br. 

Br. (Reported broken.) 

Br. 

Br. 

Br. 

Br. Kg. 

Br. 

Br. Tr. 

Br. Tr. 



Kg. 
Tr. 
Tr. 
Tr. 



P.S, 

Kg. 



Dubuque, Iowa j Br. Tr. Ps. Kg. Max. T. 



Beloit, Wi.s. 

Kecne, Coshocton county, O. 

Baral)oo, Wis 

Upper Alton, 111 

Richmond, Va 

Columbia, 8. C. 



Br, 
Br. 
Tr. 
Br. 
Br. 
Br. 



Tr. Ps. Tr. 2 Reg. 



Tr. Ps. 



Total— 20 Brs., 22 Trs., 5 Rgs. 



[108] 



76 



Instruments deposited with observers entirely at the cost of the Institution. 



Name 



To each of the Telegraph 

offices at 

Eev. N. ScaiTitt 

E. G. Sfjuicr 

J. Cai'rington , 

J. R. Hainiuond 

Rev. Jos. Ilolt, missionary 

J. W. Hopkins ". . 

Dr. J. Vaughan , 

G.P. Marsh 

L. J.Blodget 

W. B. Kno.x 

L. W. Coiikey 

J.Bell 

Doaksville Academy .. . . 

Dr. Edw. nitchcock 

Eev. John Gridley 

T. S. Farvin 

I. A. Lapliam 

Rev. Mr. Be-ckwiih 

Dr. J. Posey 

O. W. Morris 




N. Y., Albany, Utica ."^ Bufiklo 

Westport, Mo 

Leon, Nicara.o;ua 

Salt Lake, Utah 

Booneville, Mo 

Travers des Sioux 

Stations in Sand^y Lake 

Minnesota, Fort Dos Moines, 

Iowa, and Iowa 

Constantinople 

Sugar Grove, Fcnna 

Ontonagon, Lake Superior. . . . 

Syracuse', N. Y 

Detroit, Michigan 

Choctaw Nation < 

Amherst, Mass 

Kenosha, Wis 

Muscatine, Iowa 

Milwaukie, AYis 

Sandwich Islands 

Savannah, Geo 

Knoxville, Tcnn 



Instruments. 



Br. Tr. Kg. and Wv. 

Tr. 

Br. :.», Tr. '1. 

Br. Tr. Rg. Wv. 

Tr . (Returned broken . ) 
Tr. 

Tr. 

Tr. 

Tr. 

Tr. 

Br. Tr. 

Ps. 

Ps. 

Br. 

Br. 

Br 

Br. 

Br 

Br 

Br, 

Br 



ir. 



2 Tr 2 

Tr. Pst'Tr. 2. 

Tr. Ps. Rg. 2 Reg. Tr 

Tr. Ps. 



Tota -15 Brs., 31 Trs., 6 Rgs. 



Smithsonian Observers lofio have paid the entire east of their instrumejits. 



Names. 



Places. 



TV. M. Stewart Cfarksville, Tenn . 

Dr. J. Ray ' Cincinnati, O 

Dr. Lewis J. Steiner j Frederick, Md 

Professor W. F. Hopkins j Annapohs, Md 

Dr. J. P. Barratt New Market, S. C. 



And five others not reporting their ohscrva,tions to this institution. 

Reduction of Observation&- . 



The vesiills of this undertaking consist of a series of thirty-five volumes 
of monthly returns. As the blank forms for each month are receiv^ed, they 
are filed away in one volume in the order of the States of the Union enume- 
rated above. Manuscript and newspaper notices of storms, or other atmos- 
pheric phenomena, are also inserted in their respective places, according to 
their geographical arrangement. 



77 [ 108 ] 

During the last summer this coliectioii oi" meteorological data Avas made 
use of by Professor Espy for tlie preparation of a torthcoming rei^orl. 

Abstracts of all the notices of the aurora borealis have been made and 
incorporated into a volume containing other observations of this meteor, 
for which blank forms and directions were issued and returns received, the 
whole of which has been placed in the hands of Captain ,L H. Tiefroy, R. A., 
for reduction. 

All the notices of. periodical phenomena of asuinals and plants have been 
extracted, and in connection with other obseixations, for which blank forms 
and directions were issued and returns received, have been tabulated with a 
\ iew to generalization hereaficr. 

The principal storms of last aiid the preceding year are now undergoing 
reduction, including the prej<aration of a series of charts, showing the lines 
of temperature, the winds, fall of rain, snow, &c., iS:c., all oi which will 
serve to illustrate the formation and progress of American storms. 

Medtod of conducting the Corre^qjondence. 

When the observations for ojie inonih are completed, the observer for- 
wards the register by mail addressed to the Navy Department, having the 
word "Meteorology" endorsed on the envelope ; an arraiigement havino- 
bf^en entered into with a previous Secretary of the Navy to admit the passage 
of these documents llirough his oiiice, and thus relieve the Institution of a 
heavy charge for postage. For each sheet filled, others in blank are at 
once sent off, suflicient to enable the observer to keep a copy, which is 
almost universally done. If a letter accompanies the return sheet, it is im- 
mediately answered, and the request contained in it attended to. The tenor 
of these communications is very various, involving the solution of questions 
not only in meteorology, l>ut iii general physics, chemistry, mineralogy, 
natural history, botany, applications lor public documents, and a number 
of minor subjects. This part of our plan is always cheerfully performed, 
inasmuch as it may be regarded as a part of the remuneration which the 
observer has a right to expect in return for the time and labor expended 
by him on the observations. It is believed also that the prompt attention 
given to this part of the plan has tended greatly to keep the corps of 
observers together. The only remuneration bestowed, consists of various 
publications of the Institution, which are from time to time sent free of 
postage. Among those \yhich have been distributcil during the year may 
be enumerated, the Annual Report of tb.e Smithsonian Institution, Dr. 
Gould's History of the Discovery of Neptune, Professor Jewett's Notices 
of Public Libraries in the United States, IJooth and Morfit's Tmproven^ent in 
Chemical Arts, the Occultation lists and the Epliemeris of Neptune, Ellett's 
Memoir on the Physical Geography of the Mississippi Valley, a map of the 
great annular eclipse of July 2S, I80I, an engraving of the Smithsonian 
building, directions for making meteorological observations, accompanied 
with tables for calculating barometic pressure, dew-point, &c., a map of 
the stars in the northern heavens for delineating auroral phenomena, and 
other occasional documents of minor importance. 

The observers are generally persons engaged in occupations which admit 
to some extent of their being present at tiie place of observation at the re- 
quired hours of the day all the year round. The services of an intelli- 



[108] 78 

gent substitute is sometimes made available. The classes to which the ob- 
servers belong, are professors in colleges, principals or teachers of acade- 
mies, farmers, physicians, members of the legal and clerical profession, and 
a few engaged in mechanical and mercantile pursuits. 

Respectfully submitted, 

E. FOREMAN. 

General Assistant, 



REPORT 



or THS 



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, 



A!iB OF THS 



BUILDING COMMITTEE 



H.tmu. *.■ .J,,' 1,.'* = 



[ 108 ] 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



By the act of Congress incorporating the Institution, and a resolution of 
the Board of Regents, it becomes the duty of the Executive Committee to 
examine and certify the accounts, and to advise with the secretary with re- 
ference to the operations which may be undertaken in accordance with the 
plan of organization. The committee, during the past year, have attended 
to these duties and beg leave to submit the follovring report relanive to the 
same : 

The operations of the Institution nowfollov.' a regular course, and there- 
fore as frequent meetings of the cormi:iittee are not required as at the begin- 
ning. Indeed, they prefer to leave the principal direction of the affairs of 
the Institution to the secretary, believing that individual responsibility is 
the safe ground for confidence in the proper administration of a trust of this 
kind. 

The .active operations being of a public character, there is full opportu- 
nity of judging of their valiie, and whether they are in accordance with 
the will of the testator. It is, however, of the first importance that the 
financial condition of tlie Institution should be frequently and (uitically ex- 
amined, and that it should be seen that every account paid has a proper 
voucher, and that all money has been properly expended in accordance with 
the appropriations of the board. 

A new system of accounts was introduced in July, 1859, in accordance 
with which, all bills presented for payment are audited and certified by the 
secretary, on whose order they are paid by the treasurer, and all the ac- 
counts are revised by the Executive Committee. .The Executive Committee 
have examined every account paid since the date mentioned, and find that 
each is attended with the pro})er voucher, and that the expenditures have 
been judiciously and economically made. 

They are happy to inform the Board that the financial affairs of the In- 
stitution are still in a very favorable condition, as will be seen by .the fol- 
lowing statement : 

The whole amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into 

the Treasury of the United Stares, was - - - - Sol5,169 00 

The annual interest on the same at G per cent, is ^30,910 04 ; 
the interest which had accrued up to July, 184G, wljen the 
trust was placed under the care of the Regents, vras 242,129 00 



Total ^.-.«. - 757,298 00 

Out of this sum the Regents were authorized to expend on the building 
S242,129, VN'hieh had accrued in interest, together with such portions of in- 
terest on the original bequest as might -remain unexpended in any year. 

The Regents, however, thought it advisable to increase the principal, 
and in order to do this, resolved 'that the erection of the building should be 
spread over a number of years, and that the sum authorised to be used for 
this purpose should be put at ir^erest, so that thfe income from this source 
might in part defray the expense of the edifice. To carry out this plan, 
$250,000 of accrued interest were drawn from the treasury and invested in 



gl [ 108 ] 

tJnited States securities. This plan of finance has been rigidly adhered to, 
and it now appears from the account books of the Institution that after all 
the expenditures on the buildino- and grounds, on researches, publications 
and lectures, on the lil)rary, nuiseum and gallery of art, there is on hand 
government security valued, at the })rcsent rate of j)remium, at $209,700, 
so that the original amount and interest which had accrued previous to the 
time at which the Institution came into the charge of the Regents, has only 
been diminished by about $33,000. 

In accordance with a part of this plan, Congress has been requested to 
take from the Institution $loO,000, to be placed with the original bequest 
as a part of the principal, the interest of which alone can be expended, and 
it is hoped that an act to this etfect will be passed during the present session. 

The committee have also examined the various and multiplied operations 
of the institution as set forth in the report of the secretary, and they are 
happy to assure the board and the public that, in their opinion, the benevo- 
lent designs of the donor are faithfully and efficiently executed in accord- 
ance with his injunction, to " increase and diffuse knowledge among men." 

The following is an abstract of the expenditures during the past year, 
ranged according to the programme of accounts, which was submitted by 
the executive committee at the last meetino- of the board : 



[ 108 ] 82 

Expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution during the year 1851. 



Pay on contracts 


$22,000 00 
2,214 45 

43 53 

62 07 
657 06 

21 00 
149 99 
255 22 

62 68 
615 64 

291 20 

486 35 

370 78 

851 43 

419 96 

1,159 06 

148 69 

1,878 43 

3,799 92 




Pay of architects, &c 




Expenses of building committee, &c 




Miscellaneous to building 




Purniture, &c., in common 




Do for publications 




Do lectiu'es 




Do library .... .... 




Do museimi 




Grounds 




Expenses of Board of Regents 


26,971 64 


Lighting and heating 




Postage 








Stationery 








Apparatus 




Incidentals general . 




Salaries general 






9,406 82 


Smithsonian contributions 


3,211 76 
473 82 
100 00 
394 50 
300 00 
110 00 
635 00 
316 49 
36 75 
900 00 


Reports on progress of knowledge 




Other publications 








Computations 








Pay of lecturers 








Attendance, &c., for lectures 










6,478 82 




2,016 90 

174 88 

1,402 01 

1,999 92 

50 00 

183 03 

512 06 

1,500 00 

10 00 

6 00 


General catalogue , 




Incidentals to library 




Salaries to library 




P^xplorations— museum 




Expenses of collections — museum 








Salaries do . . . . 








Incidentals, gallery of art 






7,854 89 








49,710 48 










174,982 00 






26,971 00 




200,963 00 


Respectfully submitted by 

A 
J 
.T( 


. D. BACHE 

A. PEARC 

3S. G. TOTG 

Bxecutive 


PEN. 
Committee, 



83 ' r 108 ] 



REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMITTEE. 

The Building Commil tee of the Smithsonian Institution l)eg leave to sub- 
rait the following report of the progress of the building (hn-ing the year 
1851, and of the expenditures which have been made under Iheir direction 
during the same time. 

By the resolution of the board, at their session in 1847, the wdiole ex- 
penditure of the building, grounds and furniture, was limited to $^250,000 ; 
and for the purpose of meeting this expense, without encroaching too much 
on the accruino; and accrued interest, the building^ was not to be finished 
under five years from the time of its commencement. 

On account of the giving way of a part of the interior, the Regents, at 
their meeting in 1849, ordered a survey of the whole work by a commission 
of architects. This commission reported that the exterior of the building 
was well constructed of good materials ; that the interior, consisting of 
wood and plaster, was not proper for a depository of valuable property, 
much of which will be donations, presented with the implied condition that 
it would be properly secured against danger from fire. 

In accordance with this report, the Regents tound it necessary to deviate 
from their original intention, and to order the removal of the wood work 
which had been erected in the interior of the main building, and to direct 
that its place should be supplied by fire-proof materials. 

This change in the materials of construction, according to the estima.te 
of the architect, James Renwick, Jr., will require an additional outlay of 
about 844,000. In round numbers we may therefore estimate the entire 
cost of the building and furniture at $300,000. To meet the additional 
expense, the Regents have directed an extension of the time of completing 
the building. 

The contract of Mr. Cameron includes the finishing the whole of the ex- 
terior of the edifice, of the interior of the two wings, of the two connecting 
ranges, and of all the towers. This contract must be finished bctbre the 
19th of March of the present year ; or, in other words, within the period 
of five years from the date of the contract. 

During the past year, all the exterior of the building, including all the 
towers, has been completed, and the publit- have Jiow an opportunity of 
judging of the architectural effect, relative to which much discrepancy of 
opinion has existed. The majority of strangers who visit the city, consider 
it a very beautiful edifice, of which the effect will be heightened by the 
improvement of the grounds and the planting of the trees. 

The committee, since the last meeting of the board, have thought it ad- 
visable to order some changes and additions for the better security and use 
of the building. They have directed that the sjiiral stairs, leading fioni the 
bottom to the top of the octagonal tower, shall be constructed in iion, and 
that the groined arch, whicli fiirms the ceiling of the space between the 
front towers over the main entrance, shall be constructed in brick instead 
of wood and plaster; also, that the floor of the second story of the vesti- 
bule of the southern tow^er shall be laid with tile instead of wood. Besides 
these changes, intended to render the building more secure from fire, the 
committee have authorized the fitting up of three rooms in the basement of 
the west connecting range, for printing and stereotyping uses. 



[ 108 ] 84 

In view of appropriating a portion of the main building to the purposes 
of a large lectare room, the committee have directed that, the large doors 
of the main entrance shall be made to open outward, in order to avoid the 
fatal consequences sometimes occasioned by the rushing out in a panic of a 
large crowd of individuals. 

To facilitate the approach to the Institution from Pennsylvania avenue, 
the corporation of the city have appropriated $2,500 to the construction 
ot an iron foot bridge across the canal at Tenth street, and the necessary 
footways. This bridge but for an accident would have been finished before 
this time and will probably be completed in the course of a few weeks. To 
connect this bridge with the centre of the Smithsonian building, Mr. Down- 
ing has constructed a gravel walk underlaid with coarse stone to serve as 
a drain. Across the bridge and along this path a series of iron pipes have 
been laid for conveying gas to the Smithsonian Institution from the main 
pipe along Pennsylvania avenue. 

The. plan of the improvement of the public grounds mentioned in the 
last report of the committee has been adopted by the President, and is now 
in the process of rapid execution under the direction of Mr. Downing. 
When it is completed, the whole of the area known as the mall, extending 
from the foot of Capitol hill to the Potomac river, will be converted into a 
beautiful park adorned with evergreen and other ornamental trees, and tra- 
versed with carriage drives and gravel walks. In the midst of this varie- 
gated landscape the Smithsonian building will occupy a prominent position, 
and wnth its picturesque architecture will produce a harmonious effect. 

The President of the United States in 1847 appropriated to the use of the 
Institution nineteen acres of land, in the middle of which the building has 
been erected. This space was enclosed with a fence and planted with trees 
at the expense of the Smithsonian fund. The whole amount of expendi- 
ture for these objects was about four thousand dollars, but the execution of 
the plan before mentioned, at the expense of the general government, will 
render unnecessary any farther disbursements on this acc^ount. 

Without surrendering the right of use of the ground appropriated to the 
Institution, the partition fence between it and the other part of the mall has 
been removed and the whole given in charge to Mr. Downing, and his able 
assistant Mr. Breckenridge. 

The committee recommend that the interior of the north and south 
towers, which connect with the rooms hereafter to be used for the library 
and museum, shall be made as far as possible fire-proof. It is also suggested 
that the gas and water-pipes be laid in the building as it progresses. 

The attention of the Board is invited to the consideration of such mea- 
sures as may b^ deemed preparatory to proceeding with the completion of 
the centre building, such as plans and estimates. 



85 



[ i08 ] 



The folloiL'ing is submitted as an acconnt ^f the expe7iditun!>- of the 
Smifhsonian Institution relative to the huildiris: durinrr the vear 18oi. 



Pay on contracts 

P.iy of architect, ^c 

Expenses of buildiiip: conuuittee, &c 

Miscellaneous to builclini!; 

Furniture, i^c . . . .do 

Grounds . . 



$22 


000 00 


2 


214 


45 




43 


53 




52 


07 


1 


135 


95 




515 


54 


25 


'.171 


54 



Respectlully submit(e( 



WALTER LENOX, 
GRAHAM N. FITCH, 



PROCEEDINGS 

or THE 

SIXTH ANNUAL MEETING 

OP 

THE BOARD OF REGENTS 

OF THF, 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



[108 J 



SIXTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE BOARD OV REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN 

INSTITUTION. 

Washington, January 7, 1852. 

Ill accordance with the resolution of (lie Board of Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, fixing the time of" the beginning of their annual meeting 
on the first Wednesday of January of each yeai-, the Board met this day 
in the Smithsonian building, at 12 o'clock noon. 

A quorum not being present, llie Board adjourned to Saturday the 
lOfh inst. 



Washington, Saturday, January 10, 1852. 

Agreeably to adjournment the Board of Regents met this day at noon. 
Present — Messrs. Bache, Filch, Lenox, Mason, Pearce and Rush, of the 
Board ; and Mr. Seaton, treasurer. 

The secretary informed the Board of the re-appointment of Mr. Fitch of 
Indiana, and Mr. Colcock of Georgia, and the appointment of Mr. Meacham 
of Vermont, as Regents on the part of the House of Representatives of the 
present Congress. 

The secretary also stated that the accounts and reports of the Institution 
would be ready for presentation at the next meeting; whereupon, the Re- 
gents, after examining the several parts of tlie establishment, adjourned to 
meet on Saturday next at 10 o'clock. 



Washington, January 17, 1852. 

The Board met this day agreeably to adjournment. Present — Mr. Taney, 
chancellor; Messrs. Bache, Fitch, Lenox, Pearce, Rush and Totten, of the 
Board ; and Mr. Seaton, treasurer. 

The report of the Executive Committee was presented by the chairman, 
(Mr. Bache,) was read, and ordered to lie on the table. 

The report of the Building Committee was presented by Mr. Lenox, 
chairman, and was read. 

On motion, the above reports weie adopted. 

The annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the condition of 
the Institution and of the operations of the past year, was presented, and a 
part of the same read. 

Copies of the Memoirs and Reports pwblished by the Jnstitution during 
the past year were placed on the table for the inspection of the Board. 

A letter from Gilbert Cameron, contractor for the building, asking for an 
advance of money from the fund withheld as security for the proper per- 
formance of his contract, and a letter from James Renwick, jr., architect, 
approving of the part payment of the same, w^ere read, whereupon — 

On motion of Mr. Pearce, it was 

Resolve!, That the chancellor fill the places in i\\9 Building Committee Vthich were 
occupied hy Messrs. Davis and Ililliard. 



89 [ 108 ] 

The cluiJicellor appointed Messrs, Rush and Fitch, who signified their 
acceptance. 

On motion of Mr. Totten, it was 
Resolved, That the secretary be added as a member of tlie Building Committee. 

The letters of Messrs. Cameron and Renwick weie then referred to the 
Building Committee to be reported on at the no. t meetino;. 

On motion, ths Board adjourned to »Saturday^ 2 Ith instant, at 11 o'clock, 
a. m. 



Washin(;ton, January 24, 1852. 

The Board m.et at 11 o'clock, a. m. Present — Mr. Taney, chancellor; 
INIessrs. Bache, Colcock, Fitch, Lenox, Meacham, Pearce, Rush and Totten, 
of the Board ; and Mr. Seatcn, treasurer. 

The Building Connnittee, to whom were referred the letter of Gilbert 
Cameron, making application for an advance of .^lO.OOO from th(; amount 
of per centage retained as seciirity for the completion of his contract, and also 
the letter of James Renwick, jr., architect, reported that they had exam- 
ined the subject, and requested to submit the follov/ing resolution, which, 
on motion, was adopted : 

Resolved, That in accordance witli tijc reconimend;Uion of the archrtect, the Executive 
Committee be authorized to advance to the contractor the sum of $0,000 from the amount 
retained as security for the completion of his contract. 

The secretary brought before the Board the subject of the disposition of 
the accrued interest. He stated, that since the last meeting of the Regents 
he had conferred with Mr. Corcoran on the subject, and had received from 
him the following proposition, viz : Messrs. Corcoran & Riggs wall give 
sixften per cent, premium on the stock belonging to the Institution, w^ill 
allow five per cent, interest on the whole sum, including the premium, until 
an investment can be made, and make a deposite of governm.ent stocks as 
security lor the safe keeping of the money. Whereupon — 

Mr. Pearce offered the followiisg resolution, which was adopted: 

Resolved, That the chancellor and secretary be re((uested to sell $180,000 of stock of 
accrued interest upon the terms stated in the resolution of June 1st, 1850, and to deposite 
the proceeds of such sale with Corcoran & Riggs tor the purposes, and on the seourity 
therein mentioned. 

Mr. Fitch offered the following resolution, which was adopted : 

Resolved, That Mr. Pearce be requested to have the memorial relative to the reception 
wf the accrued interest by Congress taken from the files of the Senate and referred to the 
Conmiittee of Finance. 

The reading of the secretary's amiual report was then continued, incdud- 
ing the report from Professor Jewctt, in charge of the Library, giving the 
details of the operations in this department during the past year. Specimens 
of titles for catalogues, separately stereotyjied and printed, were laid before 
the Board. 

Mr. Rush offered the following resolution, which was adopted,: 

Resolved, That a copy of the special report of the secretary be furnished for publication 
to the National Intelligencer immediately after it shall be sent to Congress. 

The Board then adjourned to meet on Saturday, olst instant, at 10 
o'clock . 



[ 108 ] 90 

Washington, January 31, 1852. 

The Board this day met at 11 o'clock, a. m. Present — Mr. Taney, 
chancellor ; Messrs. Colcock, Mason, Meacham and Totten. 

The secretary communicated to the Board a copy of the will of Thomas 
Wynn, late of Brooklyn, New York, deceased, which contains a contingent 
devise or legacy to the Smithsonian Institution. 

Extract from the will of Thomas Wynn, oi Brooklyn, New York : 

« Upon the decease of my said daughter the said real and personal estate, or the proceeds 
and accumulations thereof, shall be equally divided between or among her issue, share and 
share alike, the issue of children to stand in place of their parent; or if she sliould die 
without issue, ten thousand dollars sliall be paid to my friend John Anderson, of Florida, 
and tlie residue to tlic Smithsonian Institution at "Wasliington, as I know no benevolent in- 
stitution more useful or appropriate. A sufMcient and ample fund sliall, however, be always 
reserved to secure the annuity to my -wife." 

On motion of Mr. Colcock, it was 

Resolved, That the said will be referred to Mr. Mason, witli a request that he would cor- 
respond witli an agent in New York, to ascertain tlie vahie of the estate so devised, and 
whether any and what measures may be necessary to preserve and secure the interests of 
the Inlititution under the said will. 

The secretary informed the Board that since the last meeting he had 
taken the certificates of the stock belonging to the Institution, amounting 
to $180,000, from the safety vault of the Secretary of the Senate, and had 
p-iven them in charge to Messrs. Corcoran & Biggs on the terms prescribed 
by the Board at their last meeting. He also stated that the certificates 
were not yet finally transferred to the bankers, but stand in the name of 
the chancellor and secretary as vsecurity for the stock itself. On the pro- 
ceeds of this stock, which at sixteen per cent, premium amounts to $208,- 
000, the Institution is to receive interest at the rate of five per cent, per 
annum. 

The secretary was requested to obtain from Messrs. Corcoran & Biggs 
a written account of his agreement with reference to the aforementioned 
transaction. 

The Board then adjourned to Saturday the 14th of February next. 



Washington, Saturday^ February 14, 1852. 

The Board met this day at 11 o'clock, a. ra. Present — Mr. Taney, chan- 
cellor ; Messrs. Colcock, Fitch, Lenox, Mason, Meacham and Totten, of 
the Regents ; and Mr. Seaton, treasurer. 

The secretary presented a written statement from Messrs. Corcoran & 
Riggs relative to the sale of stock belonging to the Institution, and the 
deposite of the certificates of United States stock as security therefor. 

A proposition was submitted from Dr. H. Stone, of New York, to furnish 
designs for a moimment in commemoration of James Smithson. An expla- 
nation of the designs exhibited was read. 

On motion of Mr. Mason, it was 

ResoJveJy That Dr. Stone's proposition lie on the table. 

The secretary communicated a proposition from Henry Stevens, of Lon- 
don, to obtain facts relative to the life of Janies Smithson, 



91 [ 108 ] 

The following preamble an«l resolution, submitted b}' Mr. Mason, was 
adopted : 

It beiri^ representi'il to the Boanl tliat Mr. Heiir.v Stevoiis, now ol' J^oikIoh, has ])roposed 
to collect ctu'tain authentic materials in Enroi)o, which may he useful for a future memoir of 
the life auil character of James Smithsou, the founder of tlie Institution, and without com- 
pensation for such services ; 

Hcsn/rrJ, That the secretary he authorized to aecejU tlie oirer o( Mr. Stevens, and to ap- 
propriate a sum not exceeding iifty (hdlars lor this object. 

The secretary laid before the Eoard a communieation from .Joseph Brad- 
ley relative to claims of John Snifhn, sub-contractor, at^ainst Gilbert Came- 
ron, contractor for the Smithsonian l)uilding-. 

On motion of Mr. Fitch, -the letter was refeired to tlie Building Com- 
mittee. 

The conclusion of the secretary's annual report was read, containing a 
report by Professor Baird of the (h:'talls of the statistics of the museum, of 
the j)rinting of the pid)lications, and of the (exchanges; also an account of 
the operations relative to Meteorology, the statistics of which are given in 
a report by Professor Foreman. 

On motion of Mr. Fitch, it was 

Onli'irt/, That a vote of tluxnks he jiresenfed to Sir Henry Kuhver, for his co-operation in 
facilitating the tr.insniission of the Smithsonian pnljlication-j into (.ireat Britain, drity tree. 
The same to he signed hy the chancellor and secretary. 

The Board then adjourned to Saturday, 21 si instant. 



WAsiiiNfiTON, Saturday, Frhriiary 21, 1S''52. 

The Board of Regents met this day, at 11 o'clock a. m. Present — Mr. 
Taney, chancellor; Messrs. Fitch, Lenox, Mason and Totteti, of the 
Board; and Mr. Seaton, treasure*'. 

Mr. Mason, to whom was referred the will of the late Thomas Wyjm, of 
Brooklyn, reported that he had written to Mr. .J. II. Patten, of New York, 
relative to the matter, atid had received a (iomtrmnication, which he pre- 
sented to the Board. It furnished a statement of facts relative to the will, 
with suggestions as to the course to be pursued by the Boaid with reference 
to the bequest. 

The subject was again referred to Mr. Mason for further investigation. 

Mr. Lenox presented a report from the Building Committee on the letter 
of J. H. Bradley, Esq., relative to the unsettled claims of .John Snilhn 
against Gilbert Cameron, contractor, with the accompatiying resolution, 
which was adopted : 

Re.folvcd, That the .secretary be authorized to inform .Joseph Bradley, Ksq., that although 
the Board of Regents cannot grant me ajjplication made in his letter of 10th February last, 
in behalf of .John Snifliii, as in their opinion it would be an interference with the rights of the 
contractor, G. Cameron, yet that the Board will readilj'liuife in any arrangement between 
the parties which will facilitate the sctttlenient of the controversy between the said Snifiin 
and Cameron, not inconsistent with its own rights and duties in the business. 

The secretary stated to the Board that the contract of Mr. Cameron 
would ex])ire on the 19lh of March, and suggested that the Board ought to 
determine whether the fi reproofing of the centre building should be imme- 
diately proceeded with ; and also Avhether it be advisable to provide a 



[HO] 92 

larger lecture-room, and make other changes for the better adaptation and 
security of the build ini;;. 

All of whicli was referred to the Building Committee. 

The Board then adjourned to Saturday, 28th ir.st., at 10 o'clock a. m. 



Wastiington, Saturday, February 28, 1852. 
The Boanl of Regents n\et this day, agreeably to adjournment. 
A quorum for the transaction of business not being present, the meeting 
adjourned to Saturday, the 1st of May next. 



Washington, Saturday, May 1 , 1852. 

The Board met this day, at 10 o'clock a. m. Present — Mr. Taney, 
chancellor ; Messrs. Bache," Fitch, Lenox, Meacham, Pearce, Totten, of the 
Board ; and Mr. Seaton, treasurer. 

Mr. Lenox, from the Building Conraiittee, to whom was referred the sub-, 
ject oi' the completion of the building, reported as follows: 

That in tlic opinion of this committee it is advisable to proceed Avith tlie completion of the 
building as (lir as the funds will allow, and as rapidly as is consistent with good workmanship ; 
and in accordance with this opinion they ofter the following resolution : 

Rpsolveil, That the Building Committee be authorized to contract for the finishing of the 
building, or so much of it as they may think at present necessary ; and that they be allowed 
to make such clianges in the interior as they may think best suited to the wants of the Insti- 
tion ; FroriJed, Tliey report the terms of any contract or contracts they may make, and the 
character of the changes which they may contemplate in the interior of the building, to the 
Board of Regents, before oj^erations are commenced under their contract. 

Mr. Bache, from the Executive Committee, presented the following 

resolution : 

Resolvnd, That daring the year 1852, the sum of thirty thousand dollars out of the Smith- 
sonian income be and is hereby appropiiated to be expended under the direction of the sec- 
retary, and with the advice of the Executive Committee, to defray the expenses of the Insti- 
tution, and to carry out tlie several parts of the programme. 

Mr. Meacham presented the following resolution, which was adopted: 

Eesolvfd, That the chancellor and secretary be authorized to make tlie annual report of 
the Regents to Congress. 

Parts of the third and fourth volume of Smithsonian Contributions, so 
far as printed, were laid on the table for the examination of the Board ; 
also a printed list of foreign correspondents. 

On motion of , the thanks of the Board V\^ere presented to Dr. 

Charles G. Page for donations of apparatus. 

The secretary laid before the Board the memorial of Josiah Ilolbrook, 
I'equesting the publication of tracts by himsel^on agricultui'al geology and 
chemistry for general distiib|^i<)n. Referred to tb.e seottary and Executive 
Committee. Also, a petition from Miss Gil]iin, relative to the establish- 
ment of a Normal school for female teachers. Referred to the 'secretary 
and Executive Committee. 

The secretary stated that since the most important part of the operations 
of the Institution, were transacted by letters, it became highly important 
that all correspondence, however trifling it might appear^ should be care- 



93 [ 108 ] 

fully preserved, ami in order to enforce this upon himself and upon all the 
assistants, he requested a specific resolution ot the Board with reference to 
it; whereupon, on motion of Mr. Tottcn, i( \v;is 

Ke.solvrd, Tluit all cdiTcvspoiuloiicc relative to tlio luisinrst, ol tlie fiLstitutioii l)f can'i'ully 
preserved in boniid volumes, and that all such corresiioudeiice he ojjeu at the call of the 
Regents or of the Executive Committee through the secretary. 

The secretary brought before the Eoard the subject of copyright books. 
He stated that the system adopted was defective that according to the 
present arrangement, while all the most worthless publications were sent 
and the Institution put to the expense of furnishing certificates ior those, 
many of the best works published in the country were not deposited. He 
further stated that Professor Jewett had proposed a plan for remedying the 
evil, to which he would ask the attention of the Boarfl. 

On motion of Mr. Pearce, it was 

Resolved, That the subject of depositing copyright books in the Sniithsonian Institution 
be referred to the committee tbrmerly apjiointed on that subject. 

On motion of Mr. Fitch, Mr. Meacham was appointed, in place of Hon. 
.Jefferson Davis, on the conniiittee relative to copyiight books. 

The secretary brought before the Board the subject of additional com- 
pensation to Dr. .J. G Fliigel, of Leipsic. He stated that this gentleman 
had acted as the agent of the Institution for all the libraries and learned 
institutioris of central and northern Europe, and that about two luuidred 
letters and copies of letters had been received from him. 

On motion of Mr. Pearce, it was 

Rfsolved, That one huiidrcd and fifty dollars be added to the sum allov.cd to Dr. Fliigc-i 
for the present year. 

The secretary placed before the Board a letter from Lieutenant Colonel 
Edward Sabine, \i. A., Corresponding St-cretary Royal Society of London, 
of which the following is a copy : 

Royal Society's Apartments, Somkrskt Jloi sk, 

l.ONDON, March 19, 1852. 

My Dkar Sik : I duly eonimunicated to the Karl of Hosse, President of the Royal Societ}-' 
your letter to lue on the subject of llie interchange of scientific pid>lications between the 
United States and this country, and the admission into England, duty free, of scientific 
books and nuuiioirs presented to institulions or to individuals here, either by futhrough the 
Snutlisonian Institution. I accompanied this comtinuiieaiion by a letter addressed to the 
])residerit, which you will read in the enclosed printed minutes of the council of the Royal 
Society of .Tannary 15, 1852. The subject has since been brought by the Earl of Rosse 
under the consideration of her Majesty's government, who have shown, as might be expect- 
ed, much readiness to meet, in the same spirit, the liberal exam])le which has been set by the 
United States, in cxeinpting from duty scientific booics sent as i)resents froni this country to 
the SmilhsouKin Institution, and through that Institution to other institutions, and to indi- 
viduals, cultivating science in the ll"uil(!d States. The mode which lias been suggested by 
our Board of Customs, tor admitting duty free scientific jiublications designed for this 
country, and wliich, we hojje, will receive the approval of the treasury, is, that a list should 
be furnished by the Royal Society of the names of all institutions and individuals to whom 
such works may b(! expected to he addressed, when the custom-house ollicers will have di- 
rections to pass viithout duty all such publications, having the names of such institutions or 
persons inscribed either on the cover or on the title i>age, which are sent to this country in 
packages directed to the Royal Society — the list to be amendi-d or extended from time to 
thr.e. The Royal Society will gladly take charge of and distribute niuler these regulations 
the books which the Smithsonian Institution may send I'or institutions and individuals in this 
country, receiving them from the ageiit in London appointed by the Smithsonian luslitution; 
and I shall be obliged by your furnishing me, at your earliest convenience, with a list, as 
complete as you may be able to make it, of the nanieaof the institutions and persons to whom 
books or memoirs are likely to be sent. 



[ 108 ] 94 



The Royal Society will also gladly receive and forward to their ultimate destination (where 
such assistance may be useful) packages containing publications of a similar description, 
designed for institutions and individuals on tlie continent of Europe ; such packages being 
directed to the Koyal Society, and stated on tlie outside of the case or package to he from 
t/ie Smithsouiini Institution. The customs' duties will, in such cases, be either altogether 
remitted or returned on re-exportation. 

If it be a convenience to tlie cultivators of science in the United States, that publications 
presented to them by institutions or individuals on the continent of Europe, or elsewhere, 
.should be addressed to tlie Royal Society as a channel of communication, the same facilities 
will be given by tlie Board of Customs, and the Royal Society will, with jileasure, make the 
required arrangements. It will be necessary, in such cases, that packages arriving from the 
continent of Europe or elsewhere should lie marked on tlie outside, '■'for the Umithsonian 
Institution,-' and the foreign secretary of tlie Royal Society should be apprised of their 
being sent. Expenses of freight would of course lie defrayed by the agent of the Smithso- 
nian Institution. 

I remain, rnv dear sir, witli great respect and regard, verv sincerely vours, 

■ EDWARD SABINE, 
Vice President and Treasurer of the Royal Society, 

The Executive Coinmlltee presented the following report and resolutions: 

The Execntivo Committee, to whom was referred the subject of inquiring info the expe- 
diency of i-rovidirg buildings for the officers of the Institution, report: 

Tliat after due retiection tliey have come to the conclusion that it v.'ould conduce very 
luueli to tlie interests of tlie Institution if tiie ofiicers were provided with houses on the 
Smirlisoniau grounds, so tliat tliey miglit be present on all occasions, and be as much as 
possible at all times identified with the operations of the Institution; yet at present while the 
main edifice is unfinislied, they do not consider it advisable to incur the expense of addi- 
tional buildings, and would tlierefore recommend that in lieu of the rent of a house, five 
hundred dollars be added to the salaries of Professors .lewett and Baird, to be paid from the 
beginning (;f the jiresent year. 

The coiuuiittee has learned with regret that by the construction given by the secretary to 
the resolution of the Board of Regents of December 4, 1S4G, an allowance less than was 
intended by that resulntion has been received by him for house-rent, and offer a resolution 
to meet the case. 

A. D. BACHE, J 

-I. A. PEARCE, \ Executive Committee, 

.1. CI. TOTTEN. \ 

The following resolutions; were accordingly, on motion, adopted : 

Eeso/ved, That in tht! opinion of the Board of Regents, the resolution of December 4, 1846, 
was intended to make an allowance to the secretary of five liundred dollars per annum, in 
lieu of a residenc(^ 

P\.esolved, That in lieu of the rent of a house there be added to the salaries of Professors 
.Tcwett and Baird, each, five hundred dollars jier annum, from the beginning of the present 
year. 

The secretitry stated that he wished to be on the safe side, and that he 
had no intent ion at present of claiming anything on account of previous 
house-rent. 

The Board then adjourned to Saturday, 2"2d instant. 



Washington, Saturday, March 22, 1852. 

The Board met this day, at 11 o'clock a. m. Present — Messrs. Baclie, 
Fitch, Lenox, Meacham, Pearce, Totten, of the Board ; and Mr. Seaton, 
treasurer. 

In the absence of the chancellor, on motion, Mr. Pearce took the chair. 

Mr. Lenox, from the Building Committee, intbrmed the Board that the 
Avork on the building by the present contractor was not quite completed, 
but might be expected to be so in about ten days. He also remarked upon 



95 [ 108 ] 

the condition of a suit pending' between Campion and Sniffin, and its bear- 
ing upon the action of the Board. 

A bill of extra work by (i. Cameron for flai^gijig, &c., was presontt'fl and 
referred to the Building Commiltee, lo be audited and settled. 

The secretary stated that Mr. Stanley, the artist, had deposited a gallery 
of Indian portraits in the west wing of the building, which had attracted 
many visitors. 

The Board then adjoui-ncd lo Saturday, June G. 



97 [ 108 1 

APPENDIX. 

PROFESSOR TURNER'S LETTER ON INDIAN PHILOLOGY. 

New York, December 16, 1851. 
Dear Sir : In reply to my letter stating that I had examined the Dakota 
Dictionary and Grammar prepared by members of the mission to that tribe, 
and recommending tlie publication of the same, you say: "Give me your 
reasons for tlunking it an interesting addition to knowledge and worthy of 
publication in the Smithsonian Contributions; also any remarks you may 
think of importance with reference to the compilation and publication of 
works of this kind." 

My reasons for recommending the publication in the terms alluded to, 
have reference partly to the character and merits of the works under con- 
sideration, and partly to the value of such works in general, as furnishing 
materials for the study of the philology and ethnology of this continent, 
and thus "promoting the increase of knowledge amonf>- men." 

The Grammar and Dictionary of the Dakota language, nov/ presented in 
manuscript for publication by your Instiiution, are the result of the joint 
labors of the members of the Dakota mission, assisted by the most intelli- 
gent natives, for the last eighteen years, brought together and placed in 
their present form by the Rev. S. R. Riggs, and are designed to mC-et the 
requirements both of the practical linguist and the comparative philoloo-ist. 
An examination of the MSS. show that they are drawn up with ability and 
conscientious care. The Grammar is simple and brief. The Dictionary con- 
sists of two parts, Dakota-English and English-Dakota. The Dakota-Eiig- 
lish part contains upwards of 1'3,000 words. Theii- division into syllables 
is marked, and also the place of the accent. Eesides the defmition or Eng- 
lish rendering of each word, the part of speech to which it belo.'igs "is 
noted, its etymology explained, and the changes of form exhibited which 
are produced by the introduction of pronouns and particles. The Ejiglish- 
Dakota part is briefer and has more of the character of a simple vocabu- 
lary. There are some changes and additions which it would be desirable 
to make, particularly in the Granunar. I have had the pleasure of seeing 
and consulting v;ith Mr. Riggs, who has ex])ressed his readiness to Intro- 
duce any practicable improvements that may be suggested. 

The languages of the aborigines of North America are worthy of atten- 
tion in a scientific point of view on two accounts ; and first, for their owii 
sake, as constituting an important branch of philological investigation. 
These languages display many interesting analogies to those of otlier parts 
of the globe, and many equally interesting j)eculiarities of their own. Most 
of those we are acquainted with are of a highly complicated and ingenious 
construction; and the study of them enlarges the views of the comparative 
philologist by disclosing to him new and curious phases of the human mind 
as manifested in these new modes of communicating ideas. For to the 
scientific philologist — who regiofds each language, not as something elabo- 
rated by art or design, but as a true organism, the spontaneous growth, as 
it were, of the mind of the nation that uses it, and as more or less inti- 
mately connected by virtue of its origin with other organisms of the same 
nature — the study of a language simply, irrespective of the literature it 
may or mav not contain, affords the same species of instruction and deliffht 
Mis.-4 ^ 



'[ H)8 J 98 

Avhich the examination of a new production of the animal, vegetable, or 
mineral kingdom does to the student of natural history. The phenomena 
exhibiteil by tlie rudest form of speech furnish riiatter for admiring the wis- 
dom of the Great Fashioner of man and all his faculties. 

Secondly, a knowledge of these languages is desirable in view of their 
bearings on the great ethnological question of the origin, affiliations, and 
migration of the tribes that inhabited this continent prior to its discovery by 
Columbus. The Smithsonian Institution early gave evidence that it appre- 
ciated tlie importance of these questions, by announcing among the depart- 
ments of knowledge to which it proposed to lend its aid, "ethnological 
researches, particularly with reference to the different races of men in North 
America." This purpose has already begun to be carried into effect by the 
publication of the " Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley*' and the 
*' Aboriginal Monuments of the State of New York," works which have 
received the meed of the heartiest approbation of ethnologists, both in this 
country and in Europe. 

If asked in what mannei' do philological studies hear upon the ethnology 
of Nortli America, we reply: It- is true, none of the numerous peoples of 
this continent ever arrived at the grand and fruitful idea of an alphabet in 
which 1o record their deeds for the instruction of posterity. The traditions 
wliicli we find among them are of a vague and trivial character, and con- 
tain in general no information that can lay claim to any thing like antiquity, 
exce] tnig the bare fact that a given tribe at a period more or less remote 
migrated from a certain direction north, south, east, or w^est. Hence it is 
neither by perusing ancient records nor by conversing with individuals now 
living, that a knowledge of the language of our aborigines can be made to 
furnish us with true and reliable information on the topics alluded to; this 
can be done only by comparing together and analyzing the structure of 
these Innguages themselves. There arc various means for determining the 
character and relationship of tribes of men who are without a history, such 
as their physical conformation, character, habits, and manners, their imple- 
mc.nts for procuring and preparing food, their clothing, weapons, dwellings, 
their arts of various kinds, their marringe, funeral, and other rites, &c. ; 
but of all means the structure of their languages is one of the most certain 
and satisfactory. When the testimony of language can be addciced in cor- 
roboration of that obtained from these other sources, the proof is considered 
to be as perfect as the nature of the case admits ; but so long as that is 
wanting, the argument is felt to be insecure and incomplete. 

We are already in possession of many printed vocabularies of Indian 
languages of greater or less extent and accuracy, and of a very few gram- 
mars, mostly meagre and imperfect. These have been studied and com- 
pared by scholars with eager assiduity, and the interesting discoveries to 
which they have led have created a demand for a body of materials more 
copious and exact than has hitherto existed. In order that the philology 
and ethnology of this continent may receive thorough elucidation, it is ne- 
cessary that there should be given to the learned world a complete diction- 
ary of each language containing, as far as is' practicable, all the words of 
the language accurately analyzed and defined, and also a grammar in 
which all its forms, inflexions, and constructions are fully exhibited. The 
publication of works of this nature is too expensive an undertaking for in- 
dividuals, pecuniarjr profit being altogether out of the question ; nor is there 
any public institution to which th« duty 7^f nitiatin^ and carrying out a 



99 r 108 ] 

coioj-rthensive scheme for effiecting this great object could l)o assigned «o 
appropriately as to your own. 

The source to which we must mainly look for contributions to our stores 
of American philology are the. members of the various missions (o the In- 
dians. These are the only large class of men, qualified by education and 
sustained by motives of benevolence, whom we can expect to sjjcnd long' 
years in studying the mental idiosyncrasies ot our rude red brethren, and in 
mastering the formidable ditticulties of their complicated unwritten languages. 
There is also another class of men whose position would enable them to do 
much in aid of the cause, if they could l)e induced to interest themselves 
in it, I mean the superintendents and agents of Indian affairs. I v.oukl 
respectfully suggest, then, that, in the first place, the Institution adaress the 
Board of Missions and the Indian Otnce, recjuesting that means be taken to 
ascertain from the gentlemen under their control what granmiers and diction- 
aries already exist in manuscript, the extent and nature of the same, by 
whom compiled, what steps it any have been taken towards their publica- 
tion, &c. When this preliminary information shall haje been obtained, it 
will be time to set about filling up the lacunse. If the bureaus above men- 
tioned enter heartily into the project, which they may be well expected to 
do, much can soon be effected in this behalf by )»ressing the subject 
upon the attention of those most competent to undertake the work i:i i-r.c\i 
particular instance, assuring them that their labors will be duly appreciated 
and that measures will be taken for laying them in a proper mannei' before 
the world. There are many persons, missionaries and others, who have 
the requisite knowledge and ability to produce works of this kind, hut who 
do not undertake the labor, for the simple reason that they have nevei- lir.d 
any inducement to do so. 

The means by which these works are to be published, and the mode h\ 
which it shovdd be effected, are n^atters worthy of consideration. 

First, as to the means. Although this subject of Indian ])hilology is one 
of exceeding interest, the funds of the Smithsonian Institution have their 
limit, and there are many other important departments of knowledge which 
claim attention at its fostering hands. The publication of anything like a 
complete series of works for the; elucidation of the languages of the whole 
continent of North America will demand a very great outlay of labor and 
money — far more indeed than the Smithsonian can be justly expected to 
furnish alone. Its exertions therefore should be chiefly directed to collect- 
ing, suggesting to be written, and supeiintending the uniform and accurate 
publication of such works; and it should furnish only such part of the pe- 
cuniary means as cannot be obtained from other sources. The quarters to 
which the Institution, as it would seem, may confidently look for aid, hi 
addition to that furnished by liberal and public spirited individuals, are the 
Board of Missions and the "Office of Indian Affairs, both of which are di- 
rectly interested in the matter, as the pioper discharge of the duties of the 
individuals under their supervision would be greately facilitated by a com- 
petent knowledge of the Indian languages. The government of the State 
or Territory in which a tribe is situated may likewise be confidently ap- 
pealed to for aid. Lastly, assistance, pecuniary or literary, will no doubt 
be gladly furnished by our ethnological, historical, and antiquarian soeities, 
according to the nature of each case and to their res])ective abilities. 

As to the proper mode of compiling and printing these works, a little 
practice will i)e necessary for settling all the details. Of course both the 



[ lOS] 100 

grammars and dictionaries sliould be made as perfect as the opportunities 
and abilities of the authors will allow. These should be leminded that ac- 
curacy, perspicuity, and fullness of illustration by means of examples, are 
the great desiderata; and that as these books are designed for the use of 
educated persons, it is unnecessary to occupy space with ordinary defini- 
tions of the terms, article, noun, &c. Let the writer take it for granted 
that the reader is already acquainted with the common terms and rules of 
grammar, and proceed at once to describe the particular language under con- 
sideration ; let all fanciful comparisons with Hebrew, Greek, &c., be excluded. 
Each grammar should note the dialectical peculiarities of the language of 
which it treats, and also the changes that may be taking place in it, that 
is lo say, such as have been observed by the whites since they have been 
familiar with it, and especially such as are indicated by ditferences in the 
speech of old and young persons. To each grammar should be appended 
one or more specimens of composition in the language, with an interlinear 
English translation. For the purpose of comparison, the 'parable of the 
Prodigal ."^cn is sujierior on many accounts to the Lord's Prayer, although 
it would be well to give both. Eut it is very desirable, that to these should 
be added some original production of the native mind — some speech, fable, 
legend, or song, that may aiFord samples of aboriginal modes of thought as 
well as of expression. It seems strange, that so apparently obvious and 
easy a means of obtaining an insight into the workings of the mind of rude 
nations, which would prove of the highest interest to the philosophical in- 
quirer, should have been hitherto almost entirely overlooked. There 
should also be prefixed to each work of the kind, an introduction giving 
the name of the tribe and its subdivisions, the territory it occupies, its 
numbers, a sketch of its past history as far as known, and present condi- 
tion, and any peculiarities of its language, for which a proper place cannot 
elsewhere be found. Li the dictionary it is necessary that, besides the defi- 
nitions of the meaning of words, their etymology, i. e. the elements of which 
they are composed, should be exhibited in all cases where it can be ascer- 
tained. The want of this has been a serious defect in all the vocabularies 
of Indian languages hitherto compiled. In the proposed series of works 
some uniform and comprehensive system of noting sounds should be adopted, 
basfd on the principle of representing each articulation by a single character; 
and in all cases the accented syllable should be marked. A full set of rules 
and hints, together with a copy of a grammar and dictionary published on 
the plan of the Institution, might be sent to each person or body of persons 
wh 1 engage to prepare a similar work to be published under its auspices. 
Alihough the Institution cannot be expected to defray the whole expense 
of publishing these works, it should offer to include in its '"Contributions"' 
all such as are properly prepared. The size of the page is well adapted to 
exhibit the inflexion of verbs, &c., in tabular forms, by studying which a 
general view of a subject can be gained much more easily than when the 
sevt-ral parts are scattered over a number of small pages. The types, too, 
which are cut to represent certain sounds in one language, can be used 
for the same sounds in other languages. It would immensely facilitate the 
comparative study of these languages, if the works describing them were 
all compiled on the same principle, written according to tlie same system 
of notation, and embracetl in the same collection. 

What has been said relates only to the Indians within the United States, 
to which, of course, the operations of the Institutiqp should, for a consider- 



101 [ 108 J 

able time at least, be principally directed. Still something might soon be 
done towards extending the good work over the rest of the contincr.t. As 
soon as the first grammar and dictionary have been published, I would sug- 
gest that a copy be sent to the university of Toronto, together with a letter 
explaining the object and plan of the Institution, and asking its co-opera- 
tion. It could doubtless accomplish much, if so inclined, by the aid of the 
missionaries scattered through the British possessions and of the gentlemen 
in the employ of the Hudson's Bay Company, some of w^hom have paid a 
good deal of attention to the Indian languages. A similar communication 
might be opened with the University of Mexico, w-hich would probably 
prove very advantageous, as in Mexico many valuable MS. grammars and 
dictionaries, prepared by the Jesuit and Franciscan missionaries, are believed 
to exist. A descriptive catalogue of these works, and also of rare printed 
works of the kind, noting their place of deposit, would be of great interest 
and utility. 

I nov.- conclude, sir, these remarks and suggestions, which it would have 
been jiresumptuous in me to olfer except in obedience to your own request — 
with the expj-ession of my sincere satisfaction at the broad and enlightened 
views which have prompted your Institution to engage in this noble under- 
taking. It is one whose results will interest literary, scientific, and philan- 
thropic men in all parts of the world, and which it is incumbent on Ameri- 
cans to perform. It has long been expected and demanded at our hands, 
and ii is time it wci'e earnestly begun. 

With great respect. I am your very obedient servant, 

WM. W. TURNER. 

Joseph Henry, Esq., 

Secretary oj the Smithsonian Institution. 



[ 108 ] 102 



REPORT ON METEOROLOGY. 

Report of the Committee on Meteorology of the American Associatwn for 
the Promotion of Science, on the arrangement of a System of Combined 
Meteorological Observations for JMorih America. Adopted .dugvsi, 

The Committee on Meteorology, to whom was referred by the Associa- 
tion the " Proposition for extending the system of meteorological observa- 
tions now in operation under the direction of the Smithsonian Institutioii," 
respectfully present their report, and ask of the Standing Committee their 
consideration of it, and of the lesolutions appended to it, so that they may 
be presented, if approved, to the Association at the present meeting. 

It is not necessary, at the present day, to go into any argument on the 
importance of such observations. Wherever civilization extends, their 
value is recognized, and they are sustained by private and public exertions. 
At different times systems of observations have been organized by different 
governments and societies of the Old World, for determining the general 
and particular questions which occur; and in our country, the general 
government, and several of the State governments, as New York, Pennsyl- 
vania, Massachusetts, have kept up, for a limited time, several series of 
meteorological observations, from which results of high importance have 
been derived. 

Recently the British government have determined to maintain the Mag- 
netical and Meteorological Observatory at Toronto, where full observations 
are made with instruments registering by photographic methods. Our o"vni 
government still keeps up the observations ui the military posts, under the 
enlightened supervision of the surgeon-genera! of the army. The Treasury 
Department has, not long since, expressed thr opinion that the keepers of 
Jight-houses should be sufficiently well instructed to make such observa- 
tions. The Na\y .Department fosters Die ineteorological observations under 
the direction ofihe Smithsonian Inslilutio)!. The Hudson's Bay Company 
have recently consented, on application i»l ihe Association, to establish 
observations at such of their posts as might seem desirable to the Associa- 
tion. The States of New York and ol' Massachusetts have renewed their 
action in the matter. There is a great desire to profit by these very favora- 
ble circumstan<X'S of our country, and of Ihe iiresent day, to oi-ganize a 
system which shall connect all these elfoits, otiierwise isolated, and to derive 
from these and from similar ones the means of advancing the knowledge of 
the meteorology of North America. 

We expect to derive from systematic obseivations, extended over as 
much of our continent as is accessible to us, at stations selected in reference 
to the problems to be made out, a thorough knowledge of our climate inr 
all its relations, and of its variations in the same and in different localities. 
The mean temperature of points is to be determined with carefully verified 
instruments, similar to each other, similarly placed, and observed under the 
same rules and conditions; the lines of equal mean temperature will result, 
and the variations at different seasons will be shown. The limits of vege- 
tation will be found, and the areas of '-limiite adapted to the cereals. The 



i03 [ 108 ] 

parallels within which wheat, Indian corn, etc., may be profitably culti- 
vated, and which present results so different from those found to exist in 
the eastern continent in Asia, will be determined accurately. The degree 
of dryness and moisture will be ascertained; the amount of rain, and the 
amount of evaporation ; que^^ions not only bearing upon t re health and 
■comfort of man, but upon his altempts to facilitate communication by 
canals and the improvements oi rivers, and upon the means of avoiding or 
controlling floods and freshets. The number of days of rain, the number 
of clear and cloudy days, and the amount of loss of the sun's effect by 
cloudiness, will be determined ; the direction and force of the wind, and 
the system.s of winds prevailing in different parts of the continent, and in 
the different seasons oi the year. The mean pressure of the air and its 
variations will be seen, as shown by tlie barometer ; from which imjmrtant 
data in regard to relative heights of points may be obtained, giving the 
general topographical features of our extended country, and serving as a 
recomioissance in more distant parts of it for railroads or common roads 
■which may be proposed. The progress of waves of pressure, either con- 
iiected with storms or with the oidinary fluctuations of the atmosphere, 
-.vill be ascertained. All periodicai fJitnomena will be studied in connexion 
with these observations; the flowering ol plants and trees, the ripening of 
grains and of fruits, the migrations of animals. The frequence and inten- 
sity of the aurora borealis will be determined ; and its singular variations 
in passing from north to south and east to west, on our continent,' will be 
studied. The direction of the motion, the frequency, the intensity, and 
other circumstances actuating our thunder storms, will be ascertained,. 
From the observations v.-ill result the law of storms in its in\l development ; 
and its application to all parts of the continent, or limitation to particular 
portions will be entirely ascertained ; an application so important to the 
farmer and navigator, so interesting to the man of science, and so desirable 
to he known by every one who travels on any of our lakes or iivers, or 
along our extensive and somewhat stormy coasts. The lines of our tele- 
graphs will be rendered available for observations on this subject, more 
complete than any which have been l)itherto jiracticable ; and while they 
enable us to determine the laws of storms, will also furnish means of giving 
notice of their progress, and then of anticipating their approach. 

The diseases incident to different climates, the phenomena of malaria, the 
progress and laws of epidemics, may be studied in connection with the 
periodical phenomena from carefully collected statistics. 

A contribution to ethnology may be the statistics of the numerical 
decrease of the Indian races : to the interest of which many minds in this 
country are fully alive. 

These are only a portion of the results which may be expected from a 
wide-spread and well organized system of meteorological observations. 

We would propose, therefore, to establish at once, in addition to those 
which now exist, fifty meteorological stations in the positions named below ; 
to supply the primary stations with a full set of instruments, carefully com- 
pared and of uniform construction, namely, a thermometer, barometer, 
hygrometer, rain and snow gauge, and wind vane ; to cause hourly obser- 
vations to be made at six or eight stations, and observations three times 
day at all others, according to the same system. 



[ 108 ] 104 

The following list includes stations already occupied, which are, however, 
marked to distinguish them from those which it is proposed to estabhsh : 

List of tlte meteorological stations to be established. 

Sub-trojiical Zoiii . — Kc}' "W'"est, Florida; Point Isabel, Rio del Norte, New Orleans, 
Louisiana. 

Warm Temperate Zone. — A. St. Augustine, Tlorida; Tuscaloosa, Alabama; Vicksburgh, 
Mississippi; Fredricksburg, Texas; EI Paso, New Mexico; San Diego, California. 
B. Chapel Hill, Carolina; Knoxville, East Tennessee; Nashville, West Tennessee; 
Fort Atkinson, Indian Territory; Fort Washita, Indian Territory; Santa Fe, New 
Mexico. 

Middle Temperate Zone. — A. X, Washington, D. C. ; Lexington, Virginia; Fort Leaven-, 
worth, Indian Territory ; Bent's Fort, do. B. X. New York city. New York; a cen- 
tral point, Pennsylvania ; Stenbenville, Ohio ; Columbus, Ohio; Indianapolis, Indiana; 
Springfield, lUlnois ; Bioomington, Iowa. 

Middle Temperate Zone (continued.) — Fort Kearney, M. T.; Fort Laramie, M. T.; Salt 
Lake, Utah; Fort Hall, Oregon ; Nueva Helvetia, California; San Francisco, do. 

Cold Temperate Zone. — Bowdoin College, Maine ; Dartmouth College, New Havapshire ; 
Burlington, Vermont; Kingston, Canada; Manitoulin Island, or Bruce Mines, Canada; 
Lansing, Michigan; Milwaukee, Wisconsin ; Fort Gaines, Minnesota ; Fort St. Pierre, 
Minnesota Territory ; Fort McKenzie, do. ; Fort Kootanie, Oregon ; Fort Walla Walla, 
do.; Fort Vancouver, do.; three ncv/ ligiit-houses along the coast from Oregon to 
Point Conception, California. 

Resolutions. 

Resolved, That the committee on meteorology recommend to the American Association 
for the Advancement ol" Science, the appointment of a committee to memorialize Congress 
in regard to the immediate extension of the system of meteorological obseiwations now 
making in the United States, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Resolved, That this committee be authorized and directed to request the Secretary of the 
Treasury to provide for the making of meteorological observations, according to the direc- 
tions of the Smithsonian Institution, by the keepers of the light-houses which are to be 
established at points on the western coast of the United States, named in the reports of the 
committee on meteorology. 

Resolved, That the same committee be requested to address the Surgeon General of the 
United States in reference to the co-operation of this department in the same system, and 
to suggest the locations named in the report of the committee on meteorology as those where 
the observation should be made. 

Resolved, That the same committee be requested to memorialize the Canadian govern- 
ment, and the several legislatures of the States of our Union, asking their co-operation in 
the foregoing system of observations. 

Resolved, That the same committee be requested to inform the Hudson Bay Company 
of the steps which have been taken to carry into effect the system referred to in the memo- 
rial addressed to them by this association, at the last annual meeting. 



SEVENTH AMUAL REPORT 



THE BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 



THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE 
INSTITUTION DURING THE YEAR 1852, 



PROCEEDIJJGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS UP TO DATE, 



WASHINGTON: 

ROBERT ARMSTRONG, PRINTER. 

1853. 



S2d CoxftEESs, [SENATE.] Misckllaneoits, 

2d Sr.ssiofi. No. 53. 



LETTER 



FROM THE 



SECRETARY OF THE SMITIISOXIAN INSTITUTION, 

COMMUNICATING 

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents, 



March 1, 1853. — Ordered to lie on the table and be printed. 



Smithsonian Institution, August 20, 1852. 
Sir : I have the honor herewith to transmit to you tlie Annual 
Report of the Board of Reo^ents of the Smithsonian Institution, and' beg 
leave to request that you will present it to the Senate of the United 
States. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Sccretarij Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. David R. Atchison, 

President rf the Senate of the U. S. 



OFFICERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



SIILLARD FILLMORE, Ex-officio Preskling Officer of tho Institution. 

ROGER B. TAXEY, Cbaucellor of the Iiistitiiliou. 

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary of the Institution. 

CHARLES C. JEWETT, Assistant Secretary, in charge of the Librarj'. 

SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary, in charge of tho Museum. 

EDWARD FOREMAN, General Assistant. 

ALEXANDER D. BACHE,"] 

JAMES A. PEARCE, > Executive Committee. 

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, J 

GRAHAM N. FITCH, ^ 

RICHARD RUSH, L -,,. ^ 

JOHN W. MAURY, ^'"^^^"^ Committee. 

JOSEPH HENRY, J 

W. W. SEATON, Treasurer. 



REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



-, Vice President of the United States. 



ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States. 

JOHN W. MAURY, Mayor of tho City of Washington. 

JA:MES a. PEARCE, Member of the Senate of the United States. 

JAMES M. MASON, Member of the Senate of the United States. 

ROBERT M. CHARLTON, Member of the Senate of tho United States. 

QRAHAM N. FITCH, Member of the House of Representatives of the United States. 

WILLLUI F. COLCOCK, Member of tho House of liepresentatives of tho United States. 

JAMES MI.ACHAM, Member of the House of Representatives of tho United States 

EUFUS CHOATE, Citizen of Massachusetts. 

GIDEON HAWLEY, Citizen of New York. 

J. MACPHERSON BERRIEN, Citizen of Georgia. 

RICHARD RUSH, Citizen of Pennsylvania. 

ALEXANDER D. BACHE, Citizen of Washington. 

JOSEPH G. TOTTEN, Citizen of WasMngton. 



MEMBERS EX-OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION. 



MILLA.RD FILLMORE, President of the United States. 

, Vice President of the United States. 

EDWARD EVERETT, Secretary of State. 

THOMAS CORWIN, Secretary of the Treasury. 

CHARLES M. CONRAD, Secretary of War. 

JOHN P. KENNEDY, Secretaiy of the Navy. 

SAilUEL D. HUBBARD, Postmaster General. 

JOHN J. CRITTENDEN, Attorney General. 

ROGER B. TANEY, Chief Justice of the United States 

SILAS HODGES, Commissioner of Patents. 

JOHN W. ilAURY, Mayor of the City of Washbgton. 



HONORARY MEMBERS. 



ROBERT HARE, 
BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, 
WASHINGTON IRVING, 



SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT 



BOAriD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN L\STITUTION, 

Showing the operatiotis, exiiend'iturcs^ and condition of the Institution, up to 

January 1, 1853. 



To the Senate and House of Representatives : 

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1S4G, establishing 
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents, 
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and 
condition of the Institution, the following documents : 

1. The annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the 
operations of the Institution during the year 1852, including reports 
from the Assistant Secretaries, relative to tlie libraiy, nmscum, &c. 

2. Report of the Executive Committee, giving a general statement of 
the proceeds and disposition of the Smithsonian fund, and also an 
account of the expenditures for the year 1852. 

3. Report of the Building Committee, relative to tlic progress made 
in 1852 in the erection of the Smithsonian edifice. 

4. Proceedino;s of the Board of Re2;ent3. 

5. Appendix relative to meteorology, &c. 
Respectfully submitted : 

ROGER B. TANEY, Chancellor. 
JOSERII HENRY, Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : 

GeA'TLEMEn : The ohjcxit of tlie Aiiiiiial Report of the Secrctaiy is 
not only to present to the Regents an account of the transactions of the 
period which elapses between their successive sessions, but also to 
make such suggestions as may be important to the future management 
of the affiiirs of the Institution, and state such flicts in reference to it 
as may be interesting to the public, or which may furnish a connected 
history of its transactions. 

Since the beginning of the Institution no change has taken place in 
the policy originally adopted with reference to the system of active 
operations. The details of this plan were well considered, and its im- 
portance as the only means of properly carrying out the intention of 
the donor fully understood at the first. The theory of the plan was 
expressed in a few propositions, which have been constantly kept in 
view, and acted upon as far as the law of Congi-ess and other restric- 
tions would permit. 

Tliis plan, although prosecuted under very unfavorable circumstan- 
ces, has produced results such as to render the name of the Institution 
favorably known wherever science and literature are cultivated, and 
to connect it indissolubty with the history of the progress of knowledge 
in our times. As a proof of this we need only state the following facts: 
The Institution has promoted astronomy, by the aid furnished the 
researches which led to the discovery of the true orbit of the new 
planet Neptune, and the determination of the perturbations of this 
planet and the other bodies of the solar system, on account of their 
mutual attraction. It has also aided the same branch of science by 
ftirnishing instruments and other facilities to the Chilian expedition, 
under Lieut. Gilhss ; and b}^ preparing and publishing an ephemeris 
of Neptune, which has been adopted by all the astronomers of the 
world. 

It has advanced geogi-apliv, by providing the scientific traveller with 
annual lists of the occultations of the principal stars, by the moon, 
for the determination of longitude ; by the preparation of tables for 
ascertaining heights with the barometer; and by lh(^ collection and 
publicatif)n of important tiicts relative to the topograpliy of diflerent 
parts of the country, particularly of the valley of the Mississippi. 

It has established an extended system of meteorology, consisting ot 
a corps of several hundred intelHgent observers, who are daily noting 
the phases of the weather in every part of the continent of North 
America. It has imported standard instruments, constructed hundreds 
of compared thermometers, barometers, and psychrometers, and has 
furnished improved tables and directions for observing with these 
instruments the various changes of the atmosphere, as to temperature, 
pressure, moisture, &c. It has collected, and is collecting, from its 



10 S. Mis. 63. 

observers, an extended series of facts which are yielding deductions of 
great interest in regard to the climate of this country and the meteo- 
rology of the globe. 

The Institution has advanced the science of geology, by its researches 
and original publications. It has made a preliminary exploration of 
the remarkable region on the upper Missouri river called "the Bad 
Lands," and is now printing a descriptive memoir on the extraordinary 
remains which abound in that locality. It has assisted in explorations 
relative to the distribution in this country of tlie remains of microscopic 
animals found in immense quantities in different parts of the United 
States. 

It has made important contributions to botan}^ by means of the 
published results of explorations in Texas, New Mexico, and Califor- 
nia; and by the preparation and publication of an extended memoir, 
illustrated with colored engravings, on the sea-plants of the coast of 
North America. 

It has published several important original papers on physiology, 
comparntive nnatomy, zoology, and different branches of descriptive 
natural history; and has prepared and printed, for distribution to trav- 
ellers, a series of directions liDr collecting and preserving specimens. 

It has advanced teiTCStrial magnetism, by famishing instruments for 
determining the elements of the magnetic force, to various exploring 
expeditions; and by publishing the results of observations made under 
its direction, at the expense of the government. 

It has collected and published the statistics of the libraries of the 
United States; and perfected a plan of stereotyping catalogues, which 
will render effective, as a combined whole, all the scattered hbraries 
of the country. 

The Institution has also been instrumental in directing attention to 
American antiquities, and has awakened such an interest in the subject 
as will tend to the collection and study of all the facts which can be 
gathered relative to the ancient inhabitants of this continent. It has 
also rendered available for the purposes of the ethnologist and philan- 
thropist the labors of our missionaries among the Dakotas, by publish- 
ing a volume on the language of this tribe of Indians, and has done 
good service to comparative philolog}^ by the distribution of directions 
lor collecting Indian vocabularies. 

It has established an extended system of literary and scientific ex- 
changes, both foreign and domestic, and annually transmits between the 
most distant societies and individuals, hundreds of packages of valua- 
ble works. It has presented its own publications, free of expense, to 
all the first-class libraries of the world, and thus rendered them acces- 
sible, as far as possible, to all persons who are interested in their study. 
No restriction of copyright has been placed on their re-publication ; 
and the truths which they contain are daily finding their way to the 
general public, through the labors of popular writers and teachers. 
The distribution of its publications and its system of exchanges has 
served not only to advance and diffuse knowledge, but also to increase 
the reputation, and, consequently, the influence of our country ; to pro- 
mote a kindly and sympathetic feeling between the New World and 
the Old — alike grateful to the philosopher and the philanthropist. 



S. Mis. 53. 11 

Those are the fruits of what is calletl the S3"stem of active operations 
of the Institution, and its power to produce otiicr and continuous ivsults 
is only hmited by the amount of the income which can be appropriated 
to it, since each succeeding year has presented new and im})ortant 
fields for its cultivation. All the anticipations indulged with regard to 
it have been fully realized ; and after an experience of six years, there 
can now be no doubt of the true policy of the Regents in regard to it. 

I am well aware, however, that the idea is entertained by some that 
the system of active operations, though at present in a flourishing condi- 
tion, cannot continue to be the prominent object of attention ; and that 
under another set of directors, other counsels will prevail and other mea- 
sures bo adopted, and that what has been done In establishing this sys- 
tem will ultimatol^r be undone. It is true, there is cause of fear that the 
policy in this respect may 1)0 changed, for the system we are here con- 
sidering requires constant exertion, and is little suited to the tastes and 
habits of those who seek place and position from mere personrd con- 
siderations. There is cause to fear, also, from the experience of the 
past, that the general expenses of a large building, the support of the 
establishment necessarily connected with it, and the cost of collecting, 
preserving, and exhibiting specimens of nature and art, will so increase 
as to paralyze the spirit of activity. Furthermore, the proposition is 
frequently urged upon the Regents, by persons who have not duly con- 
sidered the will of Sniithson, or who fail to appreciate the importance 
of the present plan, that a large portion of the income should be de- 
voted to the diffusion of a knowledge of some popular branch of prac- 
tical art; and there may be some fear that a timid policy on the part 
of the friends of the Institution will lead them to favor such a plan. 

To obviate these tendencies, it is the duty of the present Regents, if 
they are convinced that the polic}'' of active operations is the true one, 
to endeavor to correct, as far as possible, the errors which may have 
been connnitted in the beginning, and to give the Institution such an 
impulse in the proper direction, that it cannot deviate from it without 
immediately arresting the attention of the enlightened public, both at 
home and abroad, who will not fail to demand, authoritatively, a 
sufficient reason for the change. 

A promise has been made to all persons in this country engaged in 
original researches, and who are capable of furnishing additions to the 
sum of human knowledge, that the results of their labors shall continue 
to be presented to the world through tlie Smithsonian publications. 
The honor of the Institution is alsoplodgod to the scientific and literary 
societies from which it has received exchanges, in this and other coun- 
tries, that it will continue to send to them at least an annual volume of 
contributions, of a character similar to those with which they have al- 
read}^ been presented. It is on this condition that the library has been 
so richly favored, not only with the current volumes of transactions, 
but also, in many cases, from the oldest societies, with full sets of all 
the previous volumes of their series of publications. Beside this, the 
libraries of all the colleges and literary and j)hilosophical societies of 
this country are supplied with full sets of the Smithsonian Transactions; 
and in this way a foretaste has been given of the fruit of the 
operations which will tend, in some degree, to insure their continuance. 



12 S. Mis. 53. 

But if, notwithstanding all this, the Institution is destined to a 
change of policy, what has been well done in the line we are advo- 
cating can never be undone. The new truths developed by the 
researches originated by the Institution, and recorded in its publica- 
tions ; the effect of its exchanges with foreign countries, and the 
results of the cataloguing system, can never be obliterated : they will 
endure through all coming time. Should the government of the United 
States be dissolved, and the Smithsonian fund dissipated to the winds, 
the " Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge" will still be found in 
the principal libraries of the world, a perpetual monument of the 
wisdom and liberality of the founder of the Institution, and of the 
faithfulness of those who first directed its affairs. 

Whatever, therefore, may be the future condition of the Institution, 
the true policy, for the present, is to devote its energies to the system of 
active operations. All other objects should be subordinate to this, and 
in no wise suffered to diminish the good which it is capable of pro- 
ducing. It should be prosecuted with discretion, but with vigor ; the 
results will be its vindication. 

It was stated in the last report that the Institution had been the 
contingent legatee of a considerable amount of property. During 
the past year the facts with reference to this bequest have been inves- 
tigated, and it appears that Mr. Wynn, of Brooldyn, N. Y., deceased, 
lett a legacy to his wife, and the bulk of his property, valued at 
$75,000, to his daughter, a child six years old, on condition that at the 
death of this daughter without issue, the property should come to the 
Smithsonian Institution. In making this bequest Mr. Wynn says, in 
his will: "I know no benevolent institution more useful and appro- 
priate than the Smithsonian Institution at Washington." 

This circumstance is highly gratifying to the friends of the Institu- 
tion, not because it offers a remote possibility of an increase of the 
funds, but on account of the evidence it affords of the liberal views of 
the deceased, and of his confidence in the proper management and im- 
portance of the Smithsonian bequest. The will of Mr. Wynn induces 
us to believe that the right administration of the Smithsonian fund will 
cause similar examples ot liberality on the part of wealthy individuals 
of our country ; and in this point of view the responsibility which 
rests on those who have the direction of the affairs of this Institution 
is greater than that with reference to the good which the income itself 
may immediately accomplish. 

Though it is scarcely to be expected that many unconditional 
bequests will be made, yet the example of Smilhson may induce the 
founding of other institutions which may serve to perpetuate other 
names, and increase the blessings which may flow from such judicious 
liberality. Man is a sympathetic being ; and it is not impossible that 
Smithson himself ma}^ have caught the first idea of his benevolent 
design from the example of our countryman. Count Rumford, the 
principal founder of the Royal Institution of London. 

Bequests for special purposes, bearing the names of the testators, are 
not incongruous with the plan of this Institution. Lectureships on 
particular subjects, annual reports on special branches of knowledge, 



S. Mis. 53. 13 

provision for cerliiin lines of research, and libraries for general use or 
special reference, may be founded under the names of those who be- 
stow the funds, and be placed under the direction of, and incorporated 
with, the Smitljsonian Institution. The charge, however, of such be- 
quests ought not to be accepted unless they are sufficient in themselves 
to meet ihe expenses of the object contemplated by them, and would 
not encumber or impede the legitimate operations of the Institution. 
For example : were a library of a hundn^d thousand volumes offered, it 
\vouhl be unwise to accept it were it not accompanied by the funds 
necessary to the erection of a building and to the proper support of the 
collection. 

In July, 1S50, a new system of accounts w^as introduced, which has 
been continued to the present time. According to this sj'^stem, every 
payment is made by an order of ihe Secretary on the treasurer, who, 
in turn, gives his check on Corcoran & Kiggs, with whom the semi-an- 
nual interest and the otlier income of the Institution are deposited. As 
oi'ten as once a quarter all the bills are examined and referred to their 
appropriate classes, in presence of all the officers of the Institution 
After the accounts are posted, the}^ are referred to the Executive Com- 
mittee lor final examination. 

By a reference to the report of the Executive Committee, it will be 
seen that the funds are in a good condition, and that though during the 
past year 814,047 have been paid on the building, there is still on. hand, 
after all the expenditures for publications and other purposes, besides 
the original bequest, upwards of $200,000 of accrued interest. It is to 
be regretted that Congress has not yet acted on the petition requesting 
the perpetual funding of $150,000 of the last-mentioned sum. It is 
highly important that this money should be permanently invested 
as a part of the jiidncipal, so that it can neither be lost nor expended. 
There are no other means of effectually accomplishing this result ex- 
cept b}^ funding it in the treasury of the United States. Tlie proposition 
should be pn^ssed upon Congress, thougli there may be, at present, no 
very certain prospect of success ; for, if the petition be refus(xl, and 
the money be afterwards lost by improper investment or injudicious 
expenditure, the responsibility would, in part, rest with the govern- 
ment. 

The charge of this fund, and of all the disbursements, is attended 
Avitli much solicitude. It involves a degree of responsibility which, 
to a person unaccustomed to large financial transactions, is very oner- 
ous, I beg leave, however, in this place, to mention the obligation 
wln'ch the Institution is under to W. W. Corcoran, esq., for the aid 
which he has, in all cases, afforded in the management of the funds, 
and the judicious advice which he has always given relative to their 
investment. 

From the report of the Building Committee it appears that the con- 
tract for finishing the interior of the wings and ranges, and the rooms 
of the towers, has been completed. The whole interior of the main 
building, comprising a rectangulai- space of two hundred feet long, 
fifty wide, and about sixty high, remains to be finished with fire- 
proof materials. It is proposed to divide this space into two stories 



14 S. Mis. 53. 

and a basement. These stories will be devoted to the hbrar}^, the 
museum, and a large and convenient lecture-room. 

The business of the Institution would be much facilitated were this 
part of the building completed. Since Congress has authorized the 
establishment of a library and museum, it will be well to place all the 
objects of interest to the public in the main building, and make this 
exclusively the show part oi" the establishment, devoting the wings and 
ranges, and rooms of the towers, to the business operations and other 
purposes of the Institution. In the present condition of affairs there is 
no part of the edifice to which the public has not access, and, conse- 
quently, business has to be transacted amidst constant interruptions. 
The loss of time and effective life to which all are exposed who occupy 
a position of notoriety in the city of Washington, is truly lamentable ; 
and where this is enhnnced by facility of access to gratify mere curi- 
osity, the evil becomes scarcely endurable. Progress in business, under 
such circumstances, can only be made by an encroachment on the 
hours usually allotted to rest, and that, too, at the expense of wasted 
energies and shortened days. 



Publications. — During the past year the following memoirs, described 
in the previous reports, have been collected into volumes and distrib- 
uted to public institutions in this country and abroad : 

1. Observations on Terrestrial Magnetism. 

2. Researches on Electrical Rheometry. 

3. Contributions to the Natural History of the fresh-water fishes of 

North America. 

4. First part of the Marine Algae of the coast of the United States. 

5. Plantae Wriohtianae Texano, Neo Mexicana, Part I. 

^.> .,0,,. 

6. Law of Deposit of the Flood Tide, its dynamical action and 

office. 

7. Description of ancient works in Ohio, 

8. Occullations visible in the United States during the year 1852. 

9. A Grammar and Dictionary of the Dakota language. 

The memoir last mentioned occupies an entire volume, the fourth of 
the Smithsonian series of contributions. The other memoirs are con- 
tained in the third volume of the same series. 

The remaining memoirs, described in the last report, are still in the 
press, the printing of them having been delayed by the exhaustion 
of the appropriation for the year, and by several necessary corrections. 
A suflficient number of papers will, however, be printed in the course 
of a few months, with the new appropriation, to complete the fifth volume 
of Contributions; and if the means prove sufficient, we can readily 
issue the sixth volume during the present year. 

The result of the plan of publication has fully realized the anticipa- 
tions which were entertained regarding its usefulness. It supplies the 
food it feeds upon. The appearance in the Contributions of a memoir 
on any subject immediately directs attention to that subject, and induces 
other laborers to engage in the same field of exploration. This is 
particularly manifest in the interest awakened with regard to the 



S. Mis. 53. 15 

antiquities of our country, and to the languages of the Indian tribes, by 
the publications of the Institution on these subjects. 

The following is an account of the memoirs received since the date 
of the last report : 

Contributions to the Pllstory of the Marine Alga3 of North America: 
By Dr. W. H. Harvey: Tart 2. 

In the report for lS-50 an account was given of the acceptance for 
publication of an extended and expensive memoir on the Marine Algae 
of the eastern and southern coasts of the United States, by Prof. 
Harve}^ of the University of Dublin. The first part of this memoir 
was published last spring, and has found much favor with the botanical 
world, as well as with the inhabitants and visitors of our seaboard. 
The second part of" the same memoir is now printed, and will be 
ready for distribution in the course of a few weeks. It is illustrated 
b}" tw^enty-four plates, and comprises 240 pages of printed matter. 

The common name of the class of plants wliich forms the subject 
of this memoir, viz : seaweeds, has subjected the Institution to the 
charge of expending its funds on trifling and unw^orlhy objects ; and 
as the same objection may be made to many of the papers forming 
the series of Smithsonian Contributions, a few words in vindication of 
researches of this character may not be inappropriate. 

Nothing in the whole system of nature is isolated or unimportant. 
The fall of a leaf and the motion of a planet are governed by the same 
laws. The structure of a lichen and the formation of an o&,k are 
equally the result of definite plans. It is in the study of objects 
considered trivial and unworthy of notice by the casual observer that 
genius finds the most important and interesting phenomena. It was 
in the investigation of the varying colors of the soap-bubble that 
Newton detected the remarkable fact of the fits of easy reflection and 
easy refraction presented by a ray of light in its passage through 
space, and upon whicli he established the finidamental principle of the 
present generalization of the unduiatory theor}^ of light. Smithson 
himself, the founder of this Institution, considered the analysis of a 
tear as nowise unworthy of his peculiar chemical skill ; and well might 
he so consider it; for the knowledge of the composition of every 
secretion of the body is of importance, in a ph3^siological point of 
viewj as w^ell as in the preservation of health and the cure of disease. 
The study of the cause of the spasmodic muscular contraction of a 
frog, when i>rought into contact with two pieces of metal, revealed to 
Galvani the first facts of the branch of science which now bears his 
name. The microscopic organization of animals and plants is replete 
xvith the highest instruction ; and, surely, in the language of one of the 
fathers of modern physical science, "nothing can be unworthy of 
being iavestigated 1)3^ man which was thought worthy of being created 
by God." 

These remarks are particularly a|>plicablc to the study of the lower 
classes of the organic creation. Nature everywhere exhibits economy 
of means in attaining the most complex and diversified ends. Every 
result is produced in the simplest manner when viewed in relation to 
the whole design. All parts of organized beings, whether plants or 
animals, ai-e formed of a few elementary structures, variously trans- 



16 a Mis. 53. 

formed and combined. To obtain a knowledge of the plan and pro- 
cess of organization, we must begin with the most simple combina- 
tions, precisely as we would do in the study of mathematical analyses, 
in which the student commences with the least complicated formula, 
and gradually proceeds to those of a more involved character. It is 
for this reason that the study of the algae, or seaweeds, is of special 
interest to the physiologist. The framework of every vegetable is 
built up of cells or little membranous sacks. All vegetable structures, 
W'hether wood, bark, or leaves, are formed of aggregations of these 
cells, differently moulded and united. As we pass along the 
series of organized forms, we may descend from those of a higher to 
those of a lower complexity, until, in the class of algae, we arrive at 
plants of which the whole body is composed of a few cells strung 
together ; and finally at others, the simplest of organized bodies, whose 
entire framework is a single cell. Now, it is only by a critical study 
of these rudimentary forms, and by tracing them into their complex 
combinations, that man can ever hope to arrive at a knowledge of the 
laws of organization. We might speak of the importance of a know- 
ledge of the algte in their application to agriculture and the chemical 
arts. But what we have here stated will be a sufficient reason for 
tlieir study, independent of all minor considerations. 

The next memoir consists of an account of a series of researches in 
the comparative anatomy of the frog, by Dr. Jeffries Wyman, of Cam- 
bridge, Massachusetts. 

The whole animal kingdom may in one sense be considered as the 
different development of four separate plans of organization, giving 
rise to four different classes of animals, viz : the Radiata, the Articulata, 
Mollusca, and Vertebrata. Whatever discovery is made with regard 
to the organization of any of the species belonging to any one of these 
classes, tends to throw light on the organization of the whole class, 
and it is only by the careful study of all the different animals of a 
class, and a comparison of their analogous parts, that we can arrive at 
a knowledge of the general laws which pervade the development of 
the whole. Thus the study of human anatomy is the basis of the 
investigation of the anatomy of all animals with a back-bone; and 
conversely, the anatomy of any animal of this class tends to throw 
light on that of man. 

Dr. Wyman's paper gives an account of a series of elaborate inves- 
tigations of the nervous system of a very common, but, in a physio- 
logical point of view, highly interesting animal. 

The following are the several points of the memoir: 

1. An anatomical description of the more important part of the ner- 
vous system. 

2. Comparisons between them and the corresponding organs or 
other animals, both higher and lower in the scale. 

3. The metamorphoses which they undergo, especially the spinal 
chord and some of the cranial nerves, showina; the existence of a more 
complete analogy between the nnmature condition of Batrachian rep- 
tiles and the class of fishes, than has hitherto been noticed. 

4. An application of the facts observed in connexion with the cranial 
nerves to the philosophical anatomy of the nervous system, showing 



S. Mis. 53. 17 

what is believed to be the true nature of the special sense nerves, as 
contrasted with other cranial or the true spinal nerves, and the con- 
formity of the other cranial nerves to the common spinal type. 

The next communication has the following title: "Plant;e Wrighti- 
ange Texano, Neo Mexicano, Part 2. By Dr. Asa Gray, Professor of 
Botany in Harvard University." 

It has been stated in two of the preceding reports that a small ap- 
propriation was made for botanical explorations in Texas and New 
Mexico, and tliat the results had been placed in the hands of Dr. Gray 
for scientific investigation. The first memoir on this subject was de- 
scribed in the last report. It has been printed, and copies distributed 
to all the working botanists in this country and Europe. It also forms 
a part of the third volume of the " Smithsonian Contributions." 

The object of the present memoir is to give a scientific account of 
the collections made by Mr. Wright, under the direction of Col. J. D. 
Graham, U. S. Topographical Engineers, and Major W. II. Emory, of 
the Boundary Commission, in J\ew Mexico and in Eastern Texas, 
during the summer and autumn of 1851, and the spring and early 
part of the summer of 1852. 

The description of the plants from this region was previously carried 
as far as the order conqwsitfe. In the present paper. Dr. Gray gives a 
similar account of the recent collections up to the same point, and re- 
serves the other portions of these collections made by Mr. Wright, with 
the remainder of the undescribed plants of Fendler and Lindheimer, 
to be described in a general memoir. One portion of the collection was 
made from July to November, from El Paso to the Copper Mines of 
Santa Rita del Cobre, in the southwestern part of New Mexico; and 
thence into the northern part of the Mexican State of Sonora, as far as 
Santa Cruz, returning to the Copper Mines by way of Guadalupe 
Pass, and thence back to El Paso. The plants obtaimd during this 
tour are of exceeding interest, and comprise a larg(.'r portion of new 
species than any other collection that has fallen into Dr. Gray's hands. 
Another portion was obtained in the vicinity oi' El Paso and the 
rancho of F route ra, and down the Rio Grande f()r sixty or seventy 
miles; also, up the valley of the river as far as Camp Fillmore, and 
thence into the Orange mountains, wliich bound the valley on the east. 
Another collection was made in a hasty excursion to Lake St. Marie and 
Lake Gustman, in Chihu'ihua. These several collections afford many 
novelties; no botanist having previously explored this region at tlie 
same season of the year. 

It is expected that a fiill account of the topograph}^ and productions 
of this country will be given in the reports of Colonel Graham and 
Major Emnry. 

The interest which attaches to the results of explorations of this 
kind is not confined to the botanist, but extends to the physical geogra- 
pher and the political economist. An accurate description of the 
botany of a region is a sure guide to a knowledge of its power of pro- 
ducing and sustaining vegetable and animal lite, and consequently of 
its value in a commercial and political point of view. 

Dr. Leidy, of Philadelphia, has presented a memoir on. the extinct 
2 



18 S. Mis. 53. 

species of the ox of America. In this paper he indicates the former 
existence of four species of the ox which were probably cotempora- 
neous with the Mastodon and the Mcgalonyx. Fossil remains of these 
animals have been frequently found in the United States, and descrip- 
tions of them are scattered through various works ; but no approach 
has before been made to a correct view of the number and character 
of the species. The present existing species of ox are found indige- 
nous in every part of the world except South America and Austraha, 
and this is the more remarkable because the domestic ox introduced 
into the former country by Europeans exists in immense herds on the 
pampas in a w^ld state. There is a similar fact with regard to the 
horse. America at the period of its discovery possessed no indigenous 
quadruped of this kind, though the climate is highly favorable to its 
existence, and the remains of two extinct species are frequently found. 
Two of the species of ox described by Dr. Leidy belong to the genus 
Bison, and one of these is of gigantic size. The other two species 
belong to a new genus called Bootherium. 

Another memoir presented by the same author forms an interesting 
addition to our knowledge of the extinct gigantic sloth tribe of North 
America. It comprises a description of remains of the Megalomjx, 
Mi/fodon, Megatheriwn, and of a new genus called Eriptodon. 

The scientific world is indebted for the first account of the remains 
of a large extinct quadruped of the sloth tribe to President Jefferson. 
Fragments of the bones of this animal were found in a saltpetre cave 
in Greenbrier county, Virginia. They were regarded with little or 
no interest by the persons who first observed them ; and as they encum- 
bered the saltpetre bed, would probably have been thrown out and 
suffered to decay, had not the news of their existence reached the 
ears of the distinguished individual before mentioned. Though de- 
voted to politics, he was too much of a philosopher not to see in these 
mouldering fragments of a skeleton, objects of high interest connected 
with the past history of our globe. He described them in a memoir 
published in the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society at 
Philadelphia" in 1797, and gave to the animal to which they belong the 
name of Megalonyx, or the great claw. The materials, however, in 
his possession were too scanty to allow of his determining the true 
character of the quadruped. Dr. Wistar, of Philadelphia, suspected 
the animal to have been a gigantic sloth ; and this was confirmed by 
Cuvier, from the ample materials for comparison at his command. 
The original bones described by Jefferson were preserved in the 
collection of the Philosophical Society; but besides these. Dr. Leidy 
had access to specimens of the remains of the same animal, found in 
different parts of the United States. From the study of these he has 
been enabled to throw much additional light upon the characters of 
the Megalonijx. He considers that the only remains yet known are 
confined to those found in the United States, and satisfactorily proves 
that the lower jaw of an extinct quadruped discovered by Dr. Darwin 
in South America, and referred by naturalists to the Mcgalonyx of Jef- 
erson, does not belong to an animal of the same genus. 

The remains of the Mylodon, or gigantic sloth, were first discovered 
by Darwin in his researches in the southern part of South America. 



S. Mis. 53. 19 

Remains of another species found in North America, were described 
by Dr. Harlan, but were erroneously referred to the Megalomjx. Dr. 
Leidy, in his memoir, describes the collection of the remains of this 
animal belonging to the New York Lyceum. 

The Megatherium, which is the largest of all the extinct sloth tribe, 
when full grown, w^as more than fourteen feet long, mcluding the tail, 
and eight teet high. It was first discovered in South America, but 
has since been found in Georgia; and it was from this locality, the 
only one in the United States yet known, that the remains described 
by Dr. Leidy were obtained. 

The fourth and new genus of American sloths, called the Eriptodon 
by the author, is established upon a peculiar l"orm of teeth which be- 
longed to an animal of about the size of tlic Megalomjx, the bones of 
which were also found in Georgia. 

Dr. Hays, one of the commission to which this memoir was sub- 
mitted, remarks in his report, that " the author has not only made 
valuable additions to our knowledge of an interesting tribe of animals, 
but has also collected and arranged the facts previously known so as 
to throw new light on the subject, and to render his memoir an im- 
portant starting point lor future investigators." 

Grammar of the Choctaw language, — The publication of the volume 
on the Dakota language, described in the last report, has called forth 
another important memoir on comparative philology, namely, a gram- 
mar of the Choctaw language, by the Rev. Harvey Byington, for thkty 
years a missionary among the Indians. 

It was referred for examination to Professor Felton, of Cambridge, 
and to Professor Gibbs, of Yale College, both of whom pronounced it 
an important addition to ethnology, and warmly recommended its 
publication. The work was afterwards placed in the hands of Pro- 
fessor W. W. Turner, formerly Professor of Hebrew in the New York 
Theological Seminary, now librarian of the United States I'aleut OIHce. 
Previous to sending it to the press, the author, alter numerous inter- 
views with Professor Turner, concluded that his memoir was suscep- 
tible of so much improvement by a farther study of the language, that 
he asked leave to withdraw it for a time. This request was of course 
granted, and Mr. Byington has returned to his missionar}'^ labors, and will 
again present the work after it has received the desired improvements 

Reports and other minor imhlications. — Since the date of the last re- 
iport to the Regents, the following articles have been printed and 
partially distributed : 

1. Directions for making collections in natural history. This is a 
pamphlet of twenty-lour pages, by Prolbssor Btdrd, and is much cidled 
ibr by the correspondents of the Institution. 

2. A work by Professor Jewett, containing an exposition of the sys- 
tem adopted by the Smithsonian lnstituti(jn for constructing catalogues 
of libraries, by means of separate stereotype titles, with rules I'or the 
guidance of librarians, ;md examples for ilhistratiim. This work is 
comprised in seventy-eight pages, and though not large, it has been 
produced at the expense of much time and labor. 

3. A second emission of the report on the recent improvements in 
the chemical arts has been printed, and in part distributed. This work 



20 S. Mis. 53. 

is stereotyped, and therefore copies can be supplied at any time, at a 
comparatively small cost. 

4. A description of the portraits of the North American Indians in 
the gallery of the Smithsonian Institution, by the painter of the portraits, 
J. M. Stanley, esq. This is a pamphlet of sevent3^-six pages, and con- 
tains brief sketches of the characters and incidents in the history of 
forty-three different tribes of Indians. 

5. The first part of the collection of tables to facilitate meteorological 
and other calculations, by Professor Guyot : this was mentioned in the 
last report, and has been stereotyped and distributed. It is a very 
acceptable present to the meteorological observers of the Institution, 
and other persons engaged in scientific investigations. 

Several reports on different subjects are in progress of preparation; 
but the appropriation for this part of the programme of operations is at 
present so small, that the completion of them has not been urged upon 
the authors. The first part of the report on forest trees, by Dr. Gray, 
of Cambridge, will be ready for the press the latter part of the present 
or beginning of the next year. 

Distribution of publications mid exchanges. — Copies of the Smithsonian 
Contributions to knowledge are sent to all the first-class libraries and 
Hterary and scientific societies of the world, and in return the Insti- 
tution receives an equivalent in Transactions and other publications. 
After the printing of the first volume of Contributions was completed, 
a copy of it and of the programme of organization were sent to the 
principal foreign literary and scientific institutions, with the request 
that they would exchange publications, on the condition that a volume 
of equal importance should be presented to them annually. At first 
the number of responses to this proposition was small; but since the 
character of the Institution has become known and appreciated, the 
works received in exchange have rapidly increased in number and 
impottance. The whole number of articles received during 1S52 is 
four thousand seven hundred and forty-four, which is more than three 
times that of all the previous years. The publications received in 
many cases consist of entire sets of Transactions, the earlier volumes 
of which are out of print, and cannot be purchased. They are of 
use in carrying on the various investigations of the Institution, and 
of value to the country as works of reference. They ought not to be 
considered donations to the library, but the products of the active opera- 
tions, which the Institution is at liberty to dispose of in the manner best 
suited to further its designs. The principal object, however, of the 
distribution of the Smithsonian volumes, is not to procure a large library 
in exchange, but to diffuse among men a knowledge of the new truths 
discovered by the agency of the Smithsonian fund. The worth and 
importance of the Institution is not to be estimated by what it accu- 
mulates within the walls of its building, but by what it sends forth to 
the world. Its great mission is to facilitate the use of implements of 
research, and to diffuse the knowledge which this use may develop. 
The Smithsonian publications are sent to some institutions abroad, and 
to the greater majority of those at home, without, any return except, 
in some cases, that of co-operation in meteorological and other obser- 
vations. Apphcations for these publications have now become so nu- 



S. Mis. 53. 21 

merous that the edition printed will supply but a part of tlio demand, 
and it becomes a difficult matter to select the places which will best 
subserve the object of rendering them accessible to the greatest number 
of persons who would be benefited b}' tbeir perusal. 

]n connexion with the distribulion of its own publications, the Insti- 
tution has adopted an arrangement to promote and establisli a more 
general exchange of literary and scientihc productions between this 
and other countries. For this purpose it receives packages from soci- 
eties and individuals in the different parts of the United States, and 
transmits them to England or the continent, and through its agents dis- 
tributes them to the parties f.n- whi»iii thev arc intended. It also 
receives the articles sent in return, and lurwurds them to those to whom 
they are addressed. To facilitate this opcn-ation, the packages to the 
Institution are addressed to the collector of customs in New York, and 
by him, on the certificate of the Secretary, admitted free of duty, and 
without the delay of an examination. 

In carrying out this plan, the Institution is much indebted to the 
liberal course adopted by the government of (ireat Britain, and to the 
ready co-operation of the Royal Society of Lond(jn. All packages 
intended for Great Britain, tor some i)arls of the continent, and the 
East Indies, are directed to the care of the Royal Societ}', and on the 
certificate of its president are, by a special (-rder of the government, 
admitted duty free, and without the delay and risk of inspection. The 
packages are afterwards distributed by the agent of the Institution, 
or by those of the society. 

This S3^stem of exchange does not stop here. The Royal Society 
has adopted the same plan with reference to Great Britain, and all 
other parts of the world; and tljc Smithsonian Institution, in turn, 
becomes an agent in receiving and distributing all packages the 
society desires to send to this country. A general system of interna- 
tional communication, first started by tlie Institution for the distribution 
of its own publications, has thus been established, which will tend to 
render the results of the labors of each country in the line of literature 
and science common to all, and to produce a connnunity of interest 
and of relations of the highest importance to the atlvance of know- 
ledge, and of kindly feeling "among men." 

The resalls of the operations of the system of foreign exchanges 
during the year 1S52, are exceedingly gratifying. The whole number 
of packages sent out, including tlie Smithsonian publications, is 572, 
containing 9,195 articles, and weighing 9,855 pounds. There have been 
received, in addition to the 4,715 articles for tliis Institution, 637 j)ack- 
ages, containing an ufdvn'jwn number of volumes, f()r other institutions 
in this country. The details of the business of the exchanges are 
intrusted to Professor Baird, and I would refer, fi^r a particular state- 
ment of all the facts connected with it, to his report, herewith sub- 
•mittcd. 

The i)lanet Neptune. — It ha,s been mentioned in the last annual reports 
that Mr. S. C. Walker,, of the U. S. Coast Survey, ]);epared, at the 
expense of the Smithsonian Institution, a memoir containing an exposi- 
tion of the elements of the true (^-oit of the planet Neptune, and that 
from this orbit and the mathematical investigation of Professor Pierce 



22 S. Mis. 53. 

of Cambridge, an ephcmeris of Neptune had been deduced, which has 
been accepted by all the astronomers of the world, as the only certain 
guide to the position of the planet. This ephemeris was prepared for 
1848 and 1849, at the expense of the Institution ; but since the last 
mentioned date it has been calculated at the expense of the appropria- 
tion for the Nautical Almanac, while the cost of printing and distribu- 
tion has been defrayed by the Institution. The same arrangement will 
continue for the ephemeris of 18-53 and 1854, after which the whole 
will be turned over to the Nautical Almanac. 

Occultations. — The moon in her passage eastward around the earth 
continually passes between us and the fixed stars or planets which lie 
in her path, and obscures them from our view. The instant of the 
disappearance of a star behind the moon7 or the occultation of a star, 
as the phenomenon is called, can be noted by observers widely separ- 
ated from each other, and hence this phenomenon becomes a ready 
means of determining the difference of longitude between two places. 
The employment of occultations for fixing geographical positions is 
easy, and leads to accuracy in the results. The telescope may be 
of moderate size, and requires no accurate adjustment; the position 
assigned it may be such as to suit the convenience of the observer. 
The frequent occurrence of occultations renders the use of them of 
great importance to the travelling observer, and the pubhcation of lists 
of these, and of tables for their reduction, is essential to the improvement 
of geography. They are of particular value in this countr}'' on account 
of the frequent exploring and surveying expeditions now carried on by 
our government and our people, and to be continued for an indefinite 
time in the extensive territory of the West and the newly acquired pos- 
sessions of the Southwest. Tables of occultations were prepared and 
pubhshed at the expense of this Institution for 1849 and 1850, but for 
subsequent years the expense of their preparation has been defrayed 
by the appropriation for the Nautical Almanac, under the direction of 
Lieut. Davis, while the composition and press- work is still at the ex- 
pense of the Institution. As soon as the Nautical Almanac is fully 
commenced, the publication of these tables will be entirely relinquished 
to this enterprise of the government. 

Up to 1850 the tables published were of occultations visible in the 
United States. Since, however, the preparation of the tables has been 
in charge of the director of the Nautical Almanac, the list has been so 
extended as to make it useful to geographers in general as well as to 
those of the United States. This extension was rendered important on 
account of the surveys undertaken by our government in other parts 
of the globe. Also, a table has been added, giving the correction of 
the latitude due to the oblate spheroidal figure of the earth. 

When we consider the character and condition of the vast continent 
of North America, which it belongs to us chiefly to reduce to a habit- 
able and civilized state, we shall perceive that the practical scientific 
explorer has no higher duty than to settle the geography, the magnet- 
ism, the natural history, and the climate of these regions. 

Researches. — At the session of the Regents in 1849, an appropriation 
was made to supply Lieutenant Gilliss with a telescope for his expe- 
dition to Chili, to aid him in his observation^ for a new determination 



S. Mis. 53. 23 

of the distance of tlie inferior planets, and, consequent!}'', of the actual 
distances of the several members of the solar system. A subsequent 
appropriation was made for the purchase of an astronomical clock 
for the same purpose. The first appropriation was repaid to the Insti- 
tution by a grant from Congress to cover the expenses of the expedi- 
tion, and the second will also be reimbursed by the purchase of the 
clock and all the other instruments by the Chilian government, for the 
permanent establishment of an observatory in that country. 

By these operations, the Institution has been the means of render- 
ing essential aid to science, witliout, in tlie end, thminishing the amount 
of its income. Lieutenant Gilliss, after voluntarily exiling himself from 
his fmiily and his country for four years, has returned with a rich har- 
vest of materials in astronomy, meteorology, magnetism, and natural 
history, in the reduction, generalization, rmd description of which the 
Institution may also furnish important aid. 

The sum of one hundred and fifty dollars has been advanced to 
Prof. C. B. Adams, ot Amherst College, to defray in part the expense 
of an exploration of the molluscs of the West Inilies. This subject is 
intimately connected with the geological changers which have taken 
place on the surflice of our globe ; and it was particularly with refer- 
ence to this point that Prof. xA.dams has undertaken these researches. 
This is his second expedition to the same regions; and in both instances 
the Smithsonian Institution has seconded his proposition, and warmly 
recommended it to the favorable consideration of the trustees erf Am- 
herst College. A small sum appropriated in this way, though not 
enough in itself to produce much eflect, is still sutlicient to complete the 
amount to be raised, and thus serve to determine the commencement 
of the enterprise. 

Meteorology. — The general system of observations ndatlve to the 
meteorology of the continent of North America, described in the pre- 
vious reports, has been continued and extended. It consists at present 
of the following classes, viz : 

/ 1. The Smithsonian S3^stem proper, made up of voluntary observers 
in different parts of the United States, who report Immediately to the 
Institution. 

2. The S3'stem of observations of the Universlt}^ of the Slate of 
New York, re-established under the direction of this Institution, and 
supported by the State of New York. 

3. The system of observations instituted under the direction of this 
Institution, by the State of Massachusetts. 

4. The extended s^'stem of observations made at the several military 
posts of the United States, under the direction of the Surgeon General 
of the army. 

5. Separate series of observations by exploring and surveying parties, 
in some cases directed, and in part furnished with Instruments, b}^ this 
Institution. 

G. JMeteorologlcal records from British America, consisting of obser- 
vations made at the various posts of tlu; Hudson's Bay Company, and 
at the resid(mce of private individuals in Canada. 

In the first three of these classes there are about two, hundred ob- 
servers distributed over the entire continent. In the older States they 



24 S. Mis. 53. 

are very thickly distributed, and they are entirely wanting in none. 
Texas, Arkansas, Indian Territory, Missouri, Iowa, and Minnesota, 
have each competent and reliable observers reporting directly to the 
Smithsonian Institution, in addition to those at the military posts, 
which are in the same regions. 

Farther westward, and more widely separated, the observers at the 
military posts, and those of surveying and exploring parties, continue 
the connexion of the system to the Pacific coast, where the number 
of mihtary posts is greater, and private observers are again found. 

The New York system embraces twenty-five academies as stations, 
furnished with new and reliable instruments at the expense of the 
State. 

In Massachusetts twelve sattions are furnished in like manner, of 
which eight have reported. 

In 1852 ninety-seven military posts reported meteorological observa- 
tions, and for 1853 the number will be greater rather than less. 

The whole number of stations and observers available in making 
the deductions for 1852 was three hundred and fifty; and this number, 
either reporting directly to the Institution or furnishing their observa- 
tions for its use, may be relied upon for the current year. 

Besides the observations derived from this general system, a large 
collection has been procured from individuals in dijfferent parts of the 
country, who have kept records of the weather, in some cases for 
many years. This collection was obtained by issuing a circular from 
the Institution, requesting copies of any records which might have been 
kept relative to the climate of this country. The amount of information 
received in answer to this circular was far greater than was expected, 
and much more valuable matter was thus called forth than was previ- 
ously known to exist. 

In order that the materials procured from the aforementioned sources 
may be rendered available for scientific or practical purposes, it is 
necessary that they should be reduced, discussed, and arranged for 
publication. This work was commenced at the close of 1851, and 
has been prosecuted with considerable vigor during the past year. It 
was given by me in charge to JMr. Lorin Blodget, of western New 
York, who has engaged in the work with much ardor, has devoted to 
it his whole time and attention, and evinced an unusual degree of 
talents for investigations of tliis character. 

The results which have thus far Ijeen obtained are of interest to the 
science of meteorology, and valuable to the practical arts of life. The 
following is a descriptive list of the deductions presented in a tabular 
form : 

Temperature Tables. 

1. Tables of general mean temperature for a series of years, em- 

bracing a summary of the annual means for the years 1849, 
1850, 1851, and 1852, with a general summary of rehable obser- 
vations of mean temperature on the North American continent. 

2. Tables of mean temperature for each month, season, and year, hv 

1849, 1850, 1851, and 1852, embracing 273 stations in 1849 ; 284 
in 1850 : 300 in 1851 ; and 396 in 1852. 



S. Mis. 53. 25 

3. Tables of mean temperature at each ()!)scrvccl Ijour for the same 

periods and the same stations. 

4. Tables of the monlhly extremes of temperature, with llie range 

above and below the monthly mean, lijr the same periods and the 
same stations. 

5. Collection of tables of temperature at diirercnt stations, observed 

for a series of years. 

6. Miscellaneous tables of temperature, not conforming entirely to 

either of the above divisions. 

The first class of tables embraces six hundred and seventy stations, 
distributed over the entire continent, li-om the West Indies and jNIexico 
to the Polar seas. 

The second class has a more limited range, and is generally confined 
to the United States and its territories, as observed by the military 
system, and that of the Smithsonian Institution, with a few stations in 
Canada and the British possessions on this continent. 

The third class of tables is nearly the same in extcnit with the pre- 
ceding, and for three complete years — 1850, 1851, and 1852. 

The fourth class is of the same extent and time. 

The fifth is a climatic arrangement of tables from various stations, 
extending in continuous series over pericjds varying from live to sixty 
years. 

Tables of Frcciintut'ion. 

1. Tables of distribution of precipitation in rain and melted snow for 

each month, season, and year, for 1849, 1850, 1851, and 1852. 

2. General tables of preci})itati()n for a series ot years, containing the 

results of the preceding tables, with a general summary of all 

reliable and accessible observations of fall of rain on the North 

American continent. These tid^les give results from about four 

hundred stations, principally in the United States, its Territories, 

and the West Indies. 

3.' Irregidar tables and single series, extending over long periods, and 

where reliable observations have been made. 

A series of charts has been constructed to exhibit the distribulion 

of temperature on the North American continent, by isothermal lines ; 

and also anoth(>r series, illustrative of the distribution of precipitation 

for each month, season, and year of 1850, 1851, and 1852, and for 

the periods given in the general tables. It is proposed to present 

these resuks to Congress as a ])art of the annual report of the K,egrnts, 

and as the first fruit of the labors of the Smithsonian Institution on 

the subject of meteorology. 

Catalogue of Libraries — In addition to the preparation of the work 
previously mentioned. Professor Jewett has continued his experiments 
on the new process of stereotyping, to be used in his system of cata- 
loguing. Much difficulty and delay have been experienced in the prose- 
cution of these experiments, on account of the want of workmen to 
construct the pecuUar apparatus rcquiicd. The services of an ingeni- 
ous and skiltlil iutisan havc^ however, been secured, and the process is 
now brought to sucii u state of completeness that it can be a])plied 



26 S. Mis. 53. 

with certainty, and abridgment of labor, to produce the best specimens 
of" typography. 

The system of catalogues described in previous reports, though future 
experiencr may suggest other improvements, is now apparently perfect 
in all its details. A stereotyping office has been estabhshed in the 
basement of the west wing of the Smithsonian building, and the Insti- 
tution is ready to commence the formation of a general catalogue 
of the principal libraries of the United States. The commission to 
which the catalogue system was referred, recommended that meas- 
ures be taken to procure the preparation and printing of the cata- 
logue of the Library of Congress. The cost of the first collection 
of stereotype titles can be best borne by this library, and it will be 
the first to reap the benefit of this invention. The stereotype blocks 
of the titles can be preserved in the Institution, and a new catalogue 
annually furnished at a small expense, with all the additions inserted 
in their proper places. The same titles will be employed in printing 
the catalogues of other libraries, and the new titles which may be pre- 
pared for these will, in turn, be used for the Library of Congress. 

I beg leave to commend this subject to the immediate consideration 
of the Board of Regents. The whole plan is in perfect harmony with 
the active operations, and has always received my cordial commenda- 
tion. The Institution has incurred the expense of reducing it to prac- 
tice so far as it depends on mechanical arrnngements, and it now only 
requires to be applied, to realize all the benefits which have been 
anticipated in regard to it, to do honor to the Institution and to confer 
deserved reputation on its author.* 

Library . — During the last year the library has received important 
additions from the books presented in exchange for the volumes of the 
Smithsonian Contributions and other publications. The whole value 
of the works thus received during the year, according to the estimate 
of Professor Baird, is not less than from four to five thousand dollars. 
From this source alone a highly interesting and valuable collection of 
books, pertaining to all branches of positive knowledge, will, in time, 
be obtained. The reputation which the publications of the Institution 
have given it abroad, has induced individuals to present quite a number 
of valuable works to the library. For an account of the whole, I must 
refer to the report of Prof. Jewett, herewith submitted. The library 
has also been increased by the purchase of such books as were required 
in the operations of the Institution, and with a series of scientific and 
other periodicals. 

The copyright law is still in existence, and the library has received, 
during the past year, the usual number of articles from this source. 
The remark, however, may again be made with truth, that the action 
of this law, as it now exists, imposes a burden on the Institution from 
which it should be relieved. 

The whole number of articles, according to the report of Professor 
Jewett, now in the library, is twenty-one thousand seven hundred. 

*NoTE. — Since this report was presented to the Board of Regents, Congress has appro- 
priated three thousand dollars to commence the catalogue of its library on the stereotype 
plan, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. 



S. Mis. 53. 27 

Museum of Natural History. — The ndclitions to the collection in 
naturnl history, under the persevering efforts of Professor Baird, have 
increased in a compound ratio over those of previous years. Large 
additions will also be made by the exploring expeditions which are 
about to leave for the different parts of this continent and distant seas, 
but the expense of preparing and transporting these, it is hoped will 
be defrayed by the general government. For a detailed account of 
tlie number and variety of the specimens collected, I must refer to 
Professor Buird's report accompanying this communication. 

Gallery of Art. — Besides a library, a museum, and lectures, the act 
of Congress establishing the Smithsonian Institution directed the forma- 
tion of a gallery of art. The only articles belonqing to the Institutioii 
which have been yet collected, in accordance with the last-mentioned 
regulation of Congress, are the valuable series of engravings by the old 
masters, described in a previous report. One of the original propo- 
sitions of the programme is that of encouraging arl, by providing a 
suitable room for the exhibition of pictures free of expense to the 
artist. In accordance with this, the large room in the west wing will 
be devoted to this purpose. It now contains a ver}^ interesting series 
of portraits, mostly full-size, of one hundred and fifty-two North Ameri- 
can Indians, with sketches of the scenery of the country they inhabit, 
deposited by the artist who painted them, Mr. J. M. Stanley. These 
portraits were all taken from life, and are accurate representations of 
the peculiar features of prominent individuals of forty-three different 
tribes, inhabiting the southwestern prairies. New Mexico, California, 
and Oregon. The faithfulness of the likenesses has been attested by 
a number of intelligent persons who have visited the gallery, and have 
immediately recognised among the portraits those of the individuals 
with whom they have been personally acquainted. The author devoted 
to the work of obtainmg these pictures ten years of his life, and per- 
severingly devoted himself to his task in the face of difficulties and 
dangers which enthusiasm in the pursuit could alone enable him to 
encounter. The Institution has published a descriptive catalogue of 
tliesc portraits, which are of interest to the ethnologist as representa- 
tives of the peculiar physiognomy, as well as of many of the customs, 
of the natives of this continent. 

Lectures of the Institution. — Public lectures have become one of the 
diaracteristics of the day, and next to the press, perhaps, tend niore 
than any other means of difllising knowledge, to impress the public mincL 
The liberal price paid by the Lowell Institute, and some of the asso- 
ciations in our large citie?, induces men of reputation to devote them- 
selves to the preparation of popular lectures. In some parts of the 
country a number of adjacent cities or villages enter into an arrangement 
by which the same lecture may be repeated, in succession, at each 
place ; and in this way the amount paid becomes sufficient to call forth 
the best talent. A plan of tliis kind has been adopted by die Athenae- 
um of Richmond, Virginia, with reference to the lectures before the 
Smithsonian Institution, the eflfcct of which has been mutually benefi- 
cial. Popular lectures appear better adapted to present literary and 
historical facts, and to give infiormation relative to subjects of art and 
of moral*, than to impart knowledge of scientific principles. These 



28 S. Mis. 53. 

require more attention and continuous thought than can be generally 
expected from a promiscuous audience. Hence the scientific lecturer 
frequently aims at a brilliant display of experiments, rather than to 
impress the mind with general principles. 

Local lectures are too limited in their influence to meet a hberal 
interpretation of the will of Smithson; yet they were ordered b}'' 
Congress, and are calculated to do more good in this city than in any 
other part of the Union. 

In selecting lecturers the consideration of mere popular effect has 
not been regarded. The persons chosen have been such as to give 
weight to the lecture, and to reflect credit on the Institution. The 
object has been to give instruction rather than amusement — to improve 
the public taste, rather than to elicit popular applause. The Institution, 
to be respected, must maintain a dignified character, and seek rather 
to direct j)ublic opinion than to obtain popularity by an opposite 
course. 

The moral effect which the lectures have on the city of Washington 
cannot be otherwise than benefi.cial. When the weather will permit, 
the room is every evening crowded before the hour of commencement 
with an intelligent audience. The lecturers have generally been per- 
sons from a distance, who have expressed surprise to find such a large 
and respectful attendance , in a city which is commonly thought to be 
exclusively devoted to politics and amusement. The plan of inviting 
gentlemen of reputation and influence from a distance renders the 
Smithsonian operations familiar to those best qualified to appreciate 
tlieir value, and best able to give a correct account of the character 
of the Institution in their own districts of country, as well as to 
vindicate its claims to the confidence and friendly regard of the 
public. The results of this course, and the distribution of the volumes 
of Contributions to colleges and other institutions, it is hoped, will so 
establish the Institution in the good opinion of the intelhgent and influ- 
ential part of the community, that it may bid defiance to the assaults 
of those who are ignorant of its true character, or are disappointed in 
not sharing its honors without the talents or the industry to win them. 

The following is a list of the titles of lectures given during the last 
session of Congress, with the names of the gentlemen by wliom the}- 
were delivered : 

A course of three lectures by Dr. E. K. Kane, U. S. N., on Arctic 
exploration. 

A course of three lectures by President Mark Hopkins, of Wilhams 
College, on method applied to investigation. 

A course of four lectures by Prof. W. B. Rogers, of the University 
of Virginia, on the phases of the atmosphere. 

A course of twelve lectures by Dr. Benjamin Silliman, sr., of Yale 
College, on geology. 

A course of two lectures by Prof. C. C. Felton, of Harvard Univer- 
sity, on Greek literature. 

One lecture by Job R. T^^-son, esq., of Philadelphia: Queen Eliza- 
beth and Oliver Cromwell, theii" characters and times, contrasted and 
compared. ^ 



S. Mis. 53. 29 

A course of six lectures by Dr. B. A. Gould, ji-,, of Cambridge, on 
die recent progress of astronomy. 

A course of six lectures by Prof. Louis Agassi;;^, of Cambridge, on 
the foundation of symmetry in the animnl kingdom. 

A course of six lectures b}^ Prof. B. iSilliman, jr., on the four ancient 
elements — earth, air, fire, and water. 

Omitted from previous repoit: A course of twelve lectures by Dr. 
Henry Goadby, on the structure and functions of insects. 

In the last report to the Regents, some genercal remarks were made 
relative to the library and museum, and notliing has since occurred to 
change the opinions then expressed; on the contra rN^, the experience 
of another year has tended to confirm these opinions, and to clearly 
exhibit the fact that it will be impossible to continue with the present 
income some of the most important operations, and rigidly adliere to 
the resolution of the Regents of 1S47, to devote one h;df of the whole 
income to the library and museum, besides all the expenditures still 
required on thebuilding for the accommodation of these objects. By 
a reference to the annual reports of the Executive Committee, it will 
be seen that the general incidental expenses have continually increased 
from year to year, and it is evident that they must continue to increase 
in a geometrical ratio, on account of the greater repairs which, in time, 
will l)e required on the building. After deducting from the income the 
cost of repairs, lighting, and heating; of messenger, attendants, and 
watchmen ; of stationery, transportation, and postage ; after dividing 
the remainder by two, and deducting from the quotient the expense of 
the public lectures, the final sum to be devoted to the most important, 
and, indeed, the only legitimate object of the bequest, is exceedingly 
small. 

The attempt has, however, been made in good fiith to carry out the 
resolution of February, 1847; and if items which may properly be 
charged to the library and collections were added to this side of the 
account, the l^alance up to the present date would be in favor of the 
active op(!ra.tions. But the plan has not been fjund to work well in 
practice. The income is too small to propcndy support more than one 
system of operations, and theref)re the attempt to establish and sustain 
three dej)artments, with separate ends and separate interests, must 
lead to inharmonious action, and consequently to tliminished usefulness. 

However proper such a division of the income might have been in 
the beginning, in order to harmonize conflicting opinions, and to submit 
with proper caution the several proposed schemes to a judicious trial, 
the same considerations do not now exist for its continuance; changes 
have since occurred which materially altc^r the conditions on which the 
resolution was founded. The plan of active operations was not at first 
fully understood even by the literary men of the country. It was 
considered chimerical, and incapable of being continued for an}^ length 
of time ; and hence it was thought important to provide for the means 
of fidling back upon a library and collections. The experience of six 
years has, however, established its practicability and importance, and 
it is now considered by the great majorit}^ of intellin;cnt pc-rsons 
who have studied the subject the only direct means of realizing the 



30 S. Mis. 53. 

intention of the donor. Again : the building was to have been finished 
in five years, and the income afier this was to be increased by the 
interest on the remaining surplus fiand ; but the Regents have found it 
necessary for the better security of the library and museum to add fifty 
thousand dollars to the cost of the edifice ; and ten years will have 
elapsed from the beginning, instead of five, before any income from 
the surplus fund will be available. This additional expense is not 
incurred for the active operations, and the question may be asked 
whether they ought to bear any part of this additional burden. Further- 
more, at the time the division was made, it was thought obligatory on 
the part of the Institution to support the great museum of the exploring 
expedition ; but the Regents have since concluded that it is not advisa- 
ble to take charge of this collection; and Congress, by its appropriation 
for the enlargemxent of the Patent Office, concurred in the opinion ex- 
pressed in the Senate by the Hon. Jefferson Davis, that it was a gift 
which ought not to be pressed upon the Institution. The inquiry may 
also, in this case, be made whether it is advisable in the present state 
of the funds, and the wants of the active operations, to expend any 
considerable portion of the income in the reproduction of a collection 
of objects of nature and art.- Again : the active operations are procur- 
ing annually for the library, by exchange, a large number of valuable 
books, which, in tim.e, of themselves will form a rare and valuable 
collection, and even if the division of the income is to be continued, 
a sum equal in amount to the price of these books ought to be charged 
to the library, and an equal amount credited to the active operations. 

Though a large library connected with the Institution would be 
valuable in itself, and convenient to those who are in the immediate 
vicinity of the Smithsonian building, j^et, as has been said before, it 
is not essentially necessary to the active operations. It would be of 
comparatively little importance to the greater number of the co-labor- 
ers of the Institution, who are found in every part of the United States, 
and are not confinedeven to these limits. The author of the great 
work on the American Algas, now publishing in the Smithsonian Con- 
tributions, is a resident member of Trinity College, Dubhn; and but 
few of the authors of the Smithsonian memoirs reside in Washington. 
The libraries, therefore, of the whole country, and in some cases of 
other countries, are at the service of the Institution, and employed for 
its purposes. 

Similar remarks apply to the museum. It is not the intention 
of the Institution to attempt to examine and describe within the 
walls of its own building all the objects which may be referred to it. 
To accomplish this, a corps of naturalists, each learned in his own 
branch, would be required, at an expense which the whole income 
would be inadequate to micet. In the present state of knowledge, that 
profound altainmcnt necessary to advance science can only be made 
by an individual, however gifted, but in one or two narrow lines ; and 
hence a number of members are required to complete a single class 
in any of the learned academies of Europe; and therefore the plan 
which was once proposed, of establishing on the Smithsonian fund an 
academy of associated members, was entirely incompatible with the 
limited income of the Institution. The more feasible and far less 



S. Mis. 53. 31 

expensive organization was adopted, of referring all seientific questions 
of importance, as well as objects of natural history, for investigation 
to persons of reputation and learning in diflerent parts of the United 
States, and perhaps, in some cases, in foreign countries. By the 
operation of this plan, which has been found eminently practicable, 
tlie collections, as well as the libraries of the whole country, are ren- 
dered subservient to the use of the Institution. 

There can be but little doubt that, in due time, ample provision will 
be made for a library and museum at the capital of this Union worthy 
of a government whose perpetuity depends upon the vulue and intelli- 
gence of the people. It is, therefore, unwise to hamper the more im- 
portant objects ol" this Institution, by attempting to anticipate results 
which will be eventually produced without the expenditure of its 
means. 

The prominent idea embraced in the Smithsonian organization, is 
that of cooperation and concerted action with all institutions and indi- 
viduals engaged in the promotion of knowledge. Its design is not to 
monopobze any part of the wide fields of n;iture or of art, but to invite 
all to partake in the pleasure and honor of their cultivation. It seeks 
not to encroach upon ground occupied by other institutions, but to ex- 
pend the funds in doing that which cannot be as well done by other 
means. It gives to the words of Smithson their most liberal inter- 
pretation, and " increases and diffuses hioivledge among men " by pro- 
moting the discovery of new truths, and by disseminating these in 
every part of the civilized world. 

RespcctluUy submitted, 

JOSEPH HENRY, 
Secretanj Smithsonian Institution. 



32 



S. Mis. 53. 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY, IN CHARGE 
OF THE LIBRARY. 



PRESENTED JANUARY, 1853. 



To the Secretary of the Sinithsonian Institution: 

Sir : The following table exhibits the number of books and other 
articles added to the library during the year 1852, with the sources 
from which they have been received : 





w 

rid 
O 

o 
pq 


,2 
"El 
1 


00 


n 

be 
a 


w 

1 


Music. 




OS 

OS 
u 

O 


Totals 




641 

1,481 
476 


918 

1,935 
96 


1,568 

171 

26 












3,127 


By exchanges and dona- 
tion . . . 


10 
15 


1,698 
10 






41 
19 


5,338 


By copyright 


692 


9 


1,343 






Totals 


2,598 


2,949 


1,765 


25 


1,708 


692 


9 


60 


9,806 







The present extent of the various collections in the library is shown 
by the Ibllowing table : 





o 
o 

pq 


to 

3 

a 

Ph 


w 

Ph 


p 
bD 

a 


00 


6 


a 

S3 


so 

o 


Totals. 


By purchase 


3,873 

2,657 
2,304 

873 


957 

3,872 
213 


1,568 

171 

26 


1,335 

58 
24 


2 

1,725 
51 






7,735 
8 554 


By exchanges and dona- 
tion 


l,82ij 


30 
9 


41 

86 


Bv copyright 


4 539 


By deposit 


873 




















• Totals 


9,707 


5,042 


1,765 


1,417 


1,778 


1,826 


39 


127 


21,701 





From these statements it will be seen that the library has nearly 
doubled in size during the year. Its greatest increase has been 
by exchange. The accessions from this source are nearly five times in 
number those of the preceding year. They may be considered but 
the first fruits of the system of scientific and literary exchange estab- 
lished and sustained by this Institution. They show, also, that the 



S. Mis. 53. 33 

benefits derivable by the library from its connexion with the system 
of active operations had not been over-eslimated. A considerable 
portion of the money expended in publications returns in the shape of 
books for the library. These, again, are constantly increasing the 
efficiency and interest of the publications. 

The value of the books received by exchange cannot be estimated by 
their numbers, or even their nominal price. They are works of the 
first importance to the scientific student, and which it is very difficult 
to procure by purchase, even with large funds at command. 

The most important of the works procured by exchange are the 
memoirs and proceedings of learned societies. A more particular ac- 
count of these is given in the report of Professor Baird. It is seldom 
the case that a societ}^ which has been in operation many years, is in 
possession of the earlier volumes of its memoirs. On this account 
many of our sets are incomplete. The deficiencies can only be supplied 
by purchase, as opportunities may occur. Our collection of the later 
publications of learned societies throughout the world is by far the 
most extensive in this countr}^, and we hope it will, before many years, 
be made complete. 

Among other costly and important works which have been presented 
to the hbrary during the year, the following deserve to be particularly 
mentioned: 

Voyage autour du Monde sur la corvette la. Favorite, 1830— '31-'32, 
in 5 vols. 8vo., with 84 maps, charts, and engravings, in folio. 

Voyage autour da Monde sur la frcgate la Venus, 1836-9, in 9 vols. 
Svo., with four atlases, in folio, of nwps and illustrations. 

Voyage au Pole sud sur les corvettes L^ Astrolabe et la Zelee, 1837-40, 
in 17 vols. 8vo., with illustrations of scenery and natural history in 85 
livraisons folio, and a hydrographical atlas of 57 sheets. 

Voyage autour du Globe de la frcgate la Thetis et de la corvette 
L'' Esperance, 1824-26, in 2 vols. 4to., with an atlas in folio. 

These works published by the French government are superbly 
printed and illustrated, and are of great scientific value. They were 
presented by the " Ministere de la Marine," in exchange for our own 
publications sent to the library of that department. 

Gay's Historia fisica y iwlitica de Chile, in 14 vols. 8vo. and 1 vol. 
folio of plates, an elegant work of great value, has been presented by 
the government of Chili, through Lieutenant J. M. Cilliss. 

A donation from the Honorable East India Company, in 29 volumes, 
mostly in quarto, comprises grammars and dictionaries of the Mah- 
ratta, Malayalim, Burmese, Murathee, Teloogoo, Carnataca, Bengale, 
Sanskrit, and Hindustani languages, besides other works of great in- 
terest to the philological student. 

The Board of Admiralty of the British government have presented to 
the Institution 1,574 of the charts, plans, and views published by order 
of the Lords Commissioners. This is believed to be the largest collec- 
tion of them in America, and may truly be considered a munificent gift. 
From several of the States of the Union we have received series of 
public documents, particularly from New York and INIassachusetts. 
Nor have we been forgotten by the most distant members of the Confed- 
eracy — California, Florida, and Minnesota — to which the publications 
3 



^4 S. Mis. 53. 

of the Institution were previously sent. Besides donations from gor- 
ernments and from public societies, we have received from individuals 
many costly and valuable gifts. 

To Mr. Henry Stevens and Dr. J. G. FlCigel, our agents in London 
and Leipsic, we are indebted for a large number of books and pam- 
phlets, presented by themselves, or by others at their instance. Among 
Mr. Stevens's donations are nearly one thousand pamphlets, roost of 
them formerly belonging to Mr. Petty Vaughn, of London. Many of 
these relate to American affairs, and are curious, rare, and important. 

Messrs. Meissner & Richter have presented, through Dr. Flugel, 
a copy of Gailhabaud's DenhmUlcr dcr Bauhmist, in 4 volumes 4to., a 
costly and copiously illustrated work. The publishers of Pierer's 
Universal Lexicon have, at the suggestion of Dr. Fliigel, sent to us a 
copy of the new edition, in 20 volumes 8vo. It is a sufficient evidence 
of the merit of this work, that within six years from the completion of 
the first edition it has passed through three editions in Germany. It 
meets, better than any other work, the idea of a Universal Lexicon, to 
which one may resort for concise and accurate accounts of every 
subject in which he may be interested. Encyclopasdias have been 
mostly devoted to elaborate treatises, rather than to brief explanations, 
furnishing ready answers to the thousand questions which arise in 
daily reading and study. 

The largest and most important of the gifts which we have received 
from individuals is that from James Orchard HalHwell, esq., the 
distinguished archaeologist. This gentleman has presented to the Insti- 
tution an extremely curious, interesting, and instructive collection of 
MS. bills, accounts, inventories, legal instruments, and other business 
papers, extending from 1632 to 1792, neatly arranged and handsomely 
bound in 54 volumes, mostly of folio size. This collection may justly be 
said to be unique of its kind. It is of interest not only to the antiquary 
and the collector of curious relics of olden times, but as an authentic 
record of prices for more than IGO years it is of great value. As a 
picture of the mode of life and domestic habits and expenses of 
English families of former generations it is a most instructive record. 
Its character cannot be better described than in the elegant letter of 
presentation : 

Avenue Lodge, Brixton Hills, near London, 

28?A October, 1S52. 

Sir: I have the pleasure of offering for your acceptance, for the 
use of the Smithsonian Institution, a collection of documents f()rmed for 
the purpose of illustrating the history of prices between the years 1650 
and 1750. The collection, regarded as a collection, is, I believe, 
unique in its kind, although many manuscripts of the same description 
are to be found dispersed amongst the vast stores of the British 
Museum and other libraries in this country. It consists of about 
seven thousand original papers, bound in fifty-four volumes, including 
bills, accounts, and inventories, respecting commercial and domestic 
articles of nearly every description. 

It will afford me very great pleasure if the allocation of these papers 
at Washington prove of use at any time to tlie literary inquirers of 



S. Mis. 53. 35 

your great nation. Without incurring the imputation of falling into 
the ordinary error made by collectors, in attaching a fictitious value to 
relics which ha\'e necessarily required the expenditure of considerable 
time and exertion to bring together, it way, perhaps, be allowed me to 
entertain a hope that these fragments of an earlier age, now co-iiided 
to your care, may be hereafter regarded of importance in the list of 
materials which will some day assist in producing a history ot social 
progress. 

Mr. Henry Stevens, F. S. A., the agent to the Smithsonian Institution 
in England, has kindly undertaken to forward the collection to you on 
an early opportunity. 

I feel sure you will excuse the liberty I am taking in addressing you 
on this subject ; and I have the honor to be, sir, 
Your obedient, faithful servant, 

J. O. HALLIWELL.* 

Prof. Joseph PIenry, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, IVashington. 

* Since the above account was written, we have received from the munificent donor of this 
collection a quarto volume of one hundred and twenty pages, beautifully printed on drawing 
paper, with the following title : 

" Some account of a collection of several thousand bills, accounts, and inventories, illus- 
trating the history of prices between the years 1650 and 1750. Presented to the Smithso- 
nian Institution, Washington, by James Orchard Halliwell, esq., F. R. S., Hon. M. R. I. A., 
Hon. M. R. S. L., F. S. A., etc., Bri.xton Hill; printed for private circulation only: ](S52." 

This work was printed at Mr, Halliwell's expense, and is of itself a volume of great .value 
and interest. Forever honored be such liberality ! 

The preface to this volume we quote entire : 

PREFACE. 

The unique collection of commercial and domestic statistical documents — a very brief 
notice of which, accompanied by a few extracts to exhibit their general character, will be 
found in the following pages — was formed years ago with the view of assisting in the compila- 
tion of a projected work on the history of prices. That design has now been abandoned; but 
the anxiety of the collector that the records thus brought together should be preserved in a 
permanent library fjr the use of future in({uirers, has resulted in the presentation of them to 
the people of the United States, who, beyond all others, are most likely to produce a writer 
on t*iie history of commerce willing to make use of materials which will strikingly illustrate 
the iunnonse commercial progress the world has achieved during two centuries. 

The collection includes about seven thousand separate documents, bound in fifty-four vol- 
umes, in the following ordtu" 

Vols. I to XXLX. — A collection of several thousand bills, accounts, and inventories, com- 
mencing with the year ]G:J2, but chielly relating to the period between the years 1060 and 
175U. There are included amongst them, a considerable number of the autograph private 
account-books, written on small leaves in a minute hand, of Sir John Newton, Bart., of Barr's 
Court, Co. Gloucester. In the twenty-ninth volume are a few documents of a later date. 4to. 

Vols. XXX to XXXII. — Three volumes containing undated documents, including a large 
proportion of early and curious tradesmen's bills. 4to. 

Vol. XXXIII. — Account-book of J. lley wood, commencing December 24, 1G94. Narrow 
folio. 

V(d. XXXIV. — " The accounts of the Honorable John Archer, esq., from the laste ajusting 
of the Essex book for Coopersale, being June the 30tli, 17{)3." Some of these accounts are 
very cojiious. Fol. 

Vol. XXXV. — A household account-book of the Archer family, 170!> to 1711. Small 4to. 

Vol. XXXVI. — Account-book of a person of the name of rdham, commencing in 1707 and 
extending to 1716. 4to. 

Vol. XXXVII. — " Robert Garlicke's account in Benham farme," commencing September 
9, 1738. F.d. 

Vol. XXXVIII. — A volume lettered "Estates of the Bacon family," but including various 
inventories. Fol. 



86 S. Mis. 53, 

The number of articles received under the copyrlgVit law is some- 
what larger for the last, than for the preceding year. It has increased 
from year to year since the organization of the Institution, although 
no special efforts have been made to induce publishers to comply with 
the law. Every book which has been received has been immediately 
and carefully recorded, and a certificate of deposit sent (generally 
by return of mail) to the depositor. The same care has been exer- 
cised for the most insignificant as for the most important; and has 
been dictated by a sense of justice to the publishers, inasmuch as the 
deposit was supposed to be essential to the perfection of their title. 
Had the articles thus sent been regarded merely as donations to the 
library, many of them might have been differently treated. Loose 
sheets of music, school-books, and many " cheap pubhcations," might 
merely have been placed together in some spot where they would 
long have remained undisturbed. For themselves, and as parts of an 
imperfect collection, they were hardl}^ worth recording. It should be 
particularly observed that any article, however apparently worthless, 
acquires value and importance as an integral part of a complete col- 
lection. A collection of all the productions of the American press 
would, if perfect and entire, teach lessons which could not be gleaned 
rom its parts. 
It would show the extent of the literary labors of the time. 

Vol. XXXEK. — Accounts for laboring work done for Sir John Webb at Adstocke, 1636. 
Fol. 

Vol. XL.— "A cash booke for moneys received and paid ffor my master, William Archer, 
esq., per George Burton, 1707." Fol. 

Vol. XLI. — An account-book of the Archer family, commencing in the year 1691. Narrow 
fol. 

Vol. XLII.— The account-book of Thomas Brook of Cold Hall, Co. Suffolk, 1713. Fol. 

Vol. XLIII.— "The accounts of my charge and all receipts for rents and other concerns 
for my master, the Hon. Sir John Newton, Bart., from and since the 11th of June, 1716, by 
me, John Richardson." Fol. 

Vol. XLIV. — " The accounts of the Honoured Squire Archer, from my furst goeing downe 
into Suffdlke, June the 13th, 1692, to looke after tht'se consarns for your worship." Fol. 

Vol. XLV. — Household account-book, 1715. 4to. 

Vol. XLVI. — A small account-book of Sir John Newton, commencing October, 1699. 4to. 

Vol. XL\T^I. — Account-book of the Rev. H. Arlington. 4to. 

Vol. XLVIIL— Account-book of John Fi-ench, 16.53. 

Vol. XLIX. — Wright's account-book, J676. Thin 4to. 

Vol. L. — Mr. Poole's account-book from 1675 to 1679. Fol. This volume contains some 
curious entries. 

Vol. LI. — Private account-book of Sir John Newton, commencing in March, 1719-20. 
12mo. 

Vol. LIT. — Memorandum-book of expenses of Antony Fowle, esq., of Goudhurst, Co. Kent, 
a justice of the peace, 1671, written in a copy of Lilly's Ephemcris for that year. 12 mo. 

Vol. LIII. — A book of the accounts of the Hon. Lady Archer, from 1683 to 1689. Fol. 

Vol. LIV. — The Easter-book of Campsall, Co. York, commencing in the year 1.576. Small 
fol. This is of an earlier period than it was proposed to illustrate by this collection, but it is 
admitted as a specimen of more ancient accounts. 

There is scarcely a branch of trade, an article of manufacture, or a produce of agriculture, 
the history of which is not illustrated by these papers. They are often brief; but a close 
examination can scarcely (ail of discovering minute traces of past times in particulars for 
which it would be vain to search elsewhere. To say more might exaggerate the importance 
of the collection ; to say less would be to conceal its value, which, to some extent, may be 
Baid to consist chiefly in the circumstance that the information it contains could not be 
yielded by the treasures of any library in the world, with the exception of those in the 
British Museum. 

AvKNUE Lodge, Brixton Hill, near Londo.v, 28/A October, 1852. 



S. Mis. 53. 37 

It would show the proportionate attention to the various departments 
of learnini?. 

It would show, from year to year, llie increase or decrease of interest 
in particular pursuits. 

It would show the comparative literary fertihty and wealth of differ- 
ent portions of the country. 

It would sliow the progressive improvements in the subsidiary arts 
of paper-making, binding, engraving, and so forth. 

All these points possess interest to different classes of inquirers. The 
wants of all literax}^ investigators sliould be respected, and, as far as 
possible, supplied. The historian is not less to be provided for than 
the philosopher, the artist than the statesman. If we had the means, 
therefore, of forming a complete collection of copyright works, we would 
reject nothing, not even that which might to ourselves appear utterly 
trivial, and unworthy of preservation ; for the article which one would 
reject, might, in coming times, for some reason which could not possi- 
bly have been foreseen, possess more interest than any other in the 
collection. 

It is impossible for any man to judge competently of the wants of 
future generations. It is unsafe to intrust to any one the power of re- 
jecting works as worthless. Many enHghtened contemporaries of Milton 
and Newton would have rejected, as worthless, the Paradise Lost and 
the Principia. Sir Thomas Bodley, the founder of the great library 
which bears his name— a contemporary of Shakspeare — insisted,' con- 
trary to the advice of his librarian. Dr. James, in excluding pla3^s and 
almanacs, and most pamphlets, which he was accustomed to call "riff- 
raff" and "baggage-books." The Bodleian Library is now paying 
very high prices lor those books which then might have been procured 
almost without cost. 

It is stated that one of the libraries in England, to which books were 
sent by copyright, and which was allowed to select such as were 
worthy to be retained, rejected, in a single year, The Antiquary ; Mrs. 
Opie's novels ; one of Wordsworth's odes, and his letter to a friend of 
Burns; Cobbett's publications; Jameson on Minerals, (second edition,) 
and the Edinburo^ Medical and SurG:ical .Journal ; The Sieo:c of Co- 
rinth, and Shelley's Alastor; Lord Brougham's Speech on Agricultural 
Distress, and McCulloch's Essay on the Natiomd Debt ; Comparative 
Tables of Commercial Weights ; Beethoven's Musical Compositions, 
and many other similar works. (See " Copy of a Represcntaiion from 
the Trustees of the British Museum to the Treasury," March 27, 1846, 
page 35.) 

There ought, therefore, to be in ever}' country one complete collec- 
tion of everything pubhshed — one library, where everything printed 
should be garnered up, and treated as of some importance; for, although 
in the multitude of libraries everything may be preserved somewhere, 
yet, from being scattered about, and from there being no one place where 
the student would be sure of" finding all that he might seek, many books 
would be practically lost. 

The investigator of the last half century of American histor}'' is now 
obliged to travel the country through to collect books and- papers for 
his work. Suppose that everything published in the countr}'' for the 



38 S. Mis. 53. 

last hundred years had been preserved in one hbrary, had that hbrary 
been in town or country, in the remote east or farthest south, it would 
have been the great place of resort for students of American history. 

How many would already have gained among its alcoves the means 
of presenting to the world, in new and fresh pictures, the eventful his- 
tory of our country. How many disputed and doubtful points would 
have been settled. How many errors would have been avoided. How 
much injustice to private character would have been silenced. How 
many bright examples of patriotism and devotion, now lost, would have 
been held up to the emulation of youth and the admiration of all. 

Although these remarks go to show the importance of a complete 
collection somewhere, they do not show that the same rule of accepting 
or rejecting should be followed where it is known that the collection 
can never be made complete. 

Every partial collection is supposed to be a selection made for some 
specific purpose ; and although many works, apparently very remote in 
their character from those chosen, may be desirable, yet, when means 
of procuring and preserving are limited, it may be best, it may be 
necessary, to confine the selection to such as are most intimately 
connected with the main purpose of the library. 

It might further be a question whether, admitting the importance of 
a complete collection of copyright books, it should be made here. 

I endeavored to show, in my last report, that it would not be prac- 
ticable to collect these books in any other way than by a condition of 
the copyright law, enforcing the deposit somewhere. 

It seems appropriate, if not necessary, that the place of deposit 
designated by government should be at Washington. Experience has 
shown that the selection of the Department of State for this purpose is 
inconvenient. The President of the United States, in his last message 
to Congress, has expressed the opinion that it would be a benefit to the 
pubhc service to transfer the execution of the copyright law from the 
Stale Department. The other places of deposit would be the library 
of Congress, and the Smithsonian Institution. Whether the deposit be 
made here, or in the hbrary of Congress, it certainly is the duty of the 
government to defray all expenses connected with it. It pertains to 
the government, is a necessary condition of the protection which the 
government promises to authors, and is precisely analogous to the case 
of the deposit of models in the Patent Oflice. This Institution cannot 
afibrd, at its own cost, to receive and take care of everything that is 
deposited. At the same time it is bound, by its position, to urge the 
necessity of the deposit, to show how it should be regulated, and to do 
all that it can, without prejudice to its other interests, to secure to 
authors and to pubhshers, as well as to students and hterary men, the 
full advantages which the law contemplates. I accordingly proposed 
last year a plan which seemed to me to meet all the necessities of the 
case. 

The general features of this plan were : 

1. To dispense with the registration of title, rendering the publication 
of the claim of copyright the only preliminary to the vesting of the 
right, previous to the depositing of a copy. 



S. Mis. 53. SO 

2. To reduce the number of copies required for deposit from three to 
one. 

3. To require the deposit of one copy, at the risk and expense of the 
proprietor of the copyriL!;ht, within a reasonable time after pubhcation. 

4. To require a small fee from the proprietor, sufficient to defray" 
the expense of furnishing certificates, keeping records, and preserving 
the books. This fee might be made considerably less than that now 
required of publishers, and still meet all these purposes. 

Thus the trouble and expense to publishers would be greatly dimin- 
ished, without devolving any burden either upon government, or the 
Institution receiving the deposits. 

The deposit in the library of this Institution might be made of great 
incidental benefit to pubhshers and authors. 

It has been proposed to issue a monthly bulletin, to contain the list of 
all books deposited during the preceding month. This work might, 
under the operation of such a law as proposed, be commenced immedi- 
ately. It would be widely circulated in this countr}^ and among read- 
ing and studious men in all parts of the world. Publishers would 
generally be willing to pay a large price for such a medium of adver- 
tising. But, in the case supposed, the advertisement would be inci- 
dental to the deposit, and would cost them nothing. By our system of 
stereotyping the titles separately, they would not only fill their place in 
the bulletin, but would serve for the catalogue of our own library, and 
of every other possessing the books and receiving from us its printed 
catalogue. 

Various attempts have been made to make complete lists of American 
publications; but akhough some have been quite full, none have ever 
been complete. The best is that of Mr. Norton, in the Literary Gazette. 

It would be matter of surprise to many, and of patriotic pride to all, 
to know the interest with which this list is received in Europe. But a 
few years have elapsed since an English review arrogantly asked, "In 
the four quarters of the world, who reads an American book?" It 
twould not now be more arrogant in us to demand. What citizen of the 
great republic of letters does not read American books ? 

On tire presentation of my last report, I hoped that it would be 
printed and distributed early in the year am.ong publishers and authors, 
that we might be able ere this time to ascertain fully their views on the 
subject. They are more immediatelv interested in the matter, and 
nothing should be done which would be unsatisfactory to them. 

There is in this connexion another idea, which long ago occurred to 
me, but which I have not ventured to suggest openly, lest it should 
seem extravagant, and because I could see no immediate means for 
accomplishing the object; I mean an international cop^-right exchange. 

]f, for example, a duplicate collection of all works for which copy- 
rights are secured in this country could be made, it might be offered to 
England in exchange for a like collection of its own publications; and 
this exchange, if prosperous between two countries, might be extended 
to all the principal nations of the book-making world. I do not propose 
an}' plan for effecting this end, nor do 1 know that it could ever be 
realized ; but in view of what has been done by this Institution during 
the last year in the way of literary exchanges, such an idea is not 



40 S. Mis. 53. 

altogether chimerical. The advantages which would result from sucb 
an interchange would be immense. The literary and scientific labors 
of each country would be known in their full extent, and almost simul- 
taneously in all other countries. Would not science advance more 
rapidly? Would not better justice be done to American genius? 

Nothing, it seems to me, could more effectually conduce to the rapid 
progress of science and humanity, than a system which should make 
the literary and scientific labors in each country known immediately in 
all others. 

The books gathered would, it is true, be in but one library; but 
books in a large public library, though chained to the shelves, are not 
to be shut out from the w^orld. They contain ideas, Avhich entering the 
minds of those who have access to them, there fructify, and the fruit is 
scattered far and wide. Books, it is true, are silent and motionless : 
they seem to produce no results. But within them is the spring of aU 
progress, the spirit which stimulates and sustains all the activity that 
the world of letters, of science, of politics, and of religion, manifests. 

The number of books purcluiscd during the last year is very small. 
The money was especially desired for the successful completion of 
enterprises undertaken by the department of active operations. Besides 
this, the rooms temporarily occupied as a place of deposit for books 
were, even at the beginning of the year, filled nearly to the capacity of 
the shelves erected, and it was thought best not to incur further ex- 
pense ibr arrangements which could not be of permanent utility. 

The selection of books lor purchase has been uniformly of such as 
were immediately needed, not of such as might be more remotely 
useful. It would have been preposterous to attempt with our means 
the immediate formation of a universal library ; though we have not 
ceased to cherish the hope and belief that a great library of reference 
and research will ultimately be gathered here. 

Our expectations ibr the library are not limited by our immediate 
means of purchasing books. The history of other libraries in this 
country shows that any permanent and well located institution of the 
kind may reasonably expect accessions by donation and bequest, in 
proportion to the importance of its position. The more conspicuous, 
central, and permanent the establij^hment, the more likel}' it is to 
attract the liberal notice of those who have valuable collections to 
bestow. 

The location of the Smithsonian Institution at Washington, its 
permanent endowment, its independence of partisan and sectarian 
influences, the high position in the scientific world which it has already 
achieved by its active operations, the results of the system of ex- 
changes of which we are now enjoying but the first fruits, together 
with the various means which have been adopted or suggested for 
aiding other libraries and advancing bibliographical objects, conspire to 
give prominence to the library of this Institution ; and they will, before 
many years, render it, if not the largest and most important in the 
country, at least a very valuable auxiliary to our national literary pro- 
gress. We expect, however, that it will increase mostly by exchanges 
and gifts. We may justly hope that many valuable private collections 
of books in paiticular departments of learning will be placed here, to 



S. Mis. 53. 41 

remain as the best monument that can be reared to commemorate the 
learning and taste as well as the liberality of their collectors. 

It is not the love of acquisition or pride of possession which h^-ids us 
to desire such gifts. It certainly is not the wish to withdraw them 
from other institutions. It is the belief that a large library of rclcrence 
is likely to be formed here, and to be more generally useful here than 
if placed in an}^ otlier city. There is no city in the Union more attract- 
ive to men of science and letters than Washington. This is principally 
owing to the fact that so manj^ of the most intellectual men of the nation 
are gathered here, occup3'ing its high places of trust and honor, and 
that here are discussed, by statesmen and orators, questions of deepest 
interest to liberty and civilization. The attractiveness of Washington 
is enhanced by its genial climate, which will undoubtedly render it 
more and more a favorite resort. This Institution, from its location, 
its connexion with the government, and its own organization and ope- 
.lations, possesses opportunities for collecting certain classes of books, 
which are of great importance in a library of reference, superior to 
those of any other library except that of Congress. I refer to memoirs 
and transactions of learned societies, publications of educational estab- 
lishments, documents of the general and State governments, and of 
foreign governments, besides many pamphlets and books, principally 
of local character, published in all parts of the land. 

We do not suppose that here, or anywhere, for many years to come, 
will be formed that complete treasury of the materials for literary 
pursuits which is the beau-ideal of the bibliographer; but we may, 
nevertheless, do all that we can (without prejudice to other interests) 
in the direction of this desirable end. 

It is proper to remark, in this connexion, that the chief expense of a 
library is not in the permanent custody of it when once rightly ordered. 
It is in the care of accessions, and the establishment of them as 
parts of the collection. Every book which comes into a library must 
be subjected to the fbllowmg processes : It must be collated, to see that 
it is perfect ; stamped, so that it can be identified; recorded in the book 
wliich constitutes the inventory of property; located upon the shelf, 
and have its location marked upon it; entered in the local catalogue, 
which shows the books upon each shelf, and enables the librarian to dis- 
cover the title of any one that may have occupied a spot now vacant. 
It must also be catalogued and indexed: perhaps its receipt must be 
acknowledged to the donor; and it may recjuire to be marked for bind- 
ing. It is this work upon all accessions, which is repeated for every 
pamphlet and every article — the work of organizing a library, to- 
gether with that of selecting books and directing purchases — which 
constitutes the appropriate work of the librarian. 

This work once well done, the library^ if it is to remain stationary, 
may pass from the hands of the librarian or collector and organizer, to 
those of the mere custodian or guard, wlto protects the books from 
depredation and injury, and answers the calls of those who consult 
them. These are inexpensive labors. One man of common intelligence 
in a library thus perfectly organized, and receiving no accessions, 
would be sufficient to take charge of a hundred thousand volunjcs or 
more, and serve a large number of readers. 



42 S. Mis. 53. 

I dwell upon this point, because I think it is not generally under- 
stood that the chief expense of a library is in its organization, rather 
than in its permanent custody. The two things should always be 
kept distinct. A system for rightly ordering a library should be early 
formed and steadily adhered to. Sufficient aid of the right kind 
should be furnished to the librarian, to enable him to incorporate acces- 
sions at once among the other portions of the collection; to catalogue 
them, and render them in the highest degree useful. A collection of 
books is not all that constitutes a library, any more than a collection 
of men is of necessity an army. The men must be organized for war- 
like operations to compose an army ; so books, to form a library, must 
be arranged for purposes of study and reference. 

The necessity of the proper management of a library is, however, 
better appreciated than the labor which it requires. 

In nearly all the large libraries of Europe (that of the University of 
Gottingen is perhaps the only exception) the librarians have not been 
furnished with the necessary aid to properly dispose of accessions as 
they were received. The consequence is, that the work of organizing 
has remained unaccomplished, and that the librarians have been turned 
into mere custodians, from the impossibility of committing to servants 
what would otherwise be their work. The books were not so placed 
that they could be found and kept by mere servitors. The memory 
and learning of the librarian is in incessant demand from the want of 
printed guides, which ought to have been pi-ovided. Thus arrears have 
gone on accumulating, and the expenses of the collections have con- 
stantly increased. 

The view which we take of the necessity of large collections of 
books leads us to express the gratification which we feel at the large 
appropriations made this year by Congress for replenishing the deso- 
lated shelves of its library. Should this liberality be continued, it will 
be providing with great rapidity for many of the wants which it has 
been our purpose to signalize. We doubt whether any appropriation 
made by Congress has been hailed with more intelligent pleasure. It 
revived the hopes of the studious throughout the country, and led to 
the belief that the hands which had begun this good work would carry 
it on to perfection. With an overflowing treasury, the possession of an 
enlightened and appreciative nation, we may well hope that money will 
not be wanting to establish the independence of American learning, 
to render it no longer provincial, no longer relying for its support upon 
the libraries of Europe. 

Another movement in the same direction, suddenly assuming a posi- 
tion of commanding importance, is the establishment of the Astor 
Library of New York. It was endowed by a business man, who had 
the sagacity to place it under the m;inagement of one who had made 
the selection, purchase, and care of libraries a professional study for 
many years. In the history of similar collections there is nothing to 
compare or compete with the gathering of the Astor Library in New 
York. 

It was established in 1849. The appropriations for the purchase ol 
books hive been placed entirely at the disposal of Dr. Joseph G. Cogs- 
Well, the librarian. He has collected, during two visits to Europe, 



S. Mis. 53. 43 

nearly 60,000 volumes, witli about $G3,000 dollars. But this is not 
all : these volumes were not taken at random ; they were bought from 
a list previously prepared, without regard to cost. The collection may, 
for practical utihty and adaptation to its purposes, for just distribution 
among all the departments of learning, for choice of editions, and 
material pcrfeclion of copy and binding, challenge comparison with 
any of its size in the world. 

During the year, I have prepared a work containing an exposition of 
the system for constructing catalogues of libraries, and a general cata- 
logue, b}' means of separate stereotj^pe titles, with rules for the guidance 
of librarians, and examples illustrating the rules. This work, ahhough 
not large, cost me considerable time and labor. 

It was stereotyped in our own office, by the new process, which we 
have done so much to perfect and adapt to our own peculiar purposes. 
The typographical appearance of the book is very satisfactory, although 
the work was executed by unskilful hands, and under many unfavora- 
ble circumstances. In our operations of stereotyping we have experi- 
enced many delays and difficulties, from the fact that there was no 
stereotype office or type foundry at hand, and no persons accustomed 
to the processes of stereotyping, or the manufacture of the delicate 
apparatus required. We have latel}^ however, secured the services 
of an accomplished mechanic, who has already made great improve- 
ments in our processes and apparatus, and has acquired much skill in 
the new art. 

A series of bibliographical works has been projected and commenced 
by the Institution, intended gradually to form a library of valuable aids 
to research in particular departments of knowledge. The facilities 
afi()rded for the prosecution of this plan by the stereotyping of the 
titles separately, so that each part may first be printed by itself, 
and afterwards, without loss of the previous labor and cost of printing, 
be continued to form the complete work, would alone justify the labor 
and expense of establishing an office for stereotyping. The work al- 
ready executed, or in progress, will furnish a ready test of the practi- 
cabilit}^ and efficiency of the mode of stereotyping which we have 
emj)loycd. 

Other works of a similar character are now in preparation ; among 
them the bibliography of education, which we hope may be finished 
during the year 185-3. The record of periodical publications is now 
nearly finished. The catalogue of bibliographical works in the library 
will shortly be put to press. These works may be prepared and 
printed without interfering with the progress of other work upon the 
catalogue of our own or of other libraries. 

Our stereotype office is now in operation, and we can execute work 
with a good degree of rapidity. The plan is now ofii'red to the public. 
It has already been fully stated that the expense of publishing the first 
large catalogue will be greater than of those that follow, although this 
expense will subsequently be repaid to the first library in the diminution 
of the expense of reprinting its catalogue. The commission upon the 
catalogue system recommended to the Board of ilegents to take meas- 
ures to procure the printing of the catalogue of the library of Congress. 
The reasons for this recommendation were, that this library would 



44 S. Mis. 53. 

sooner reap the benefits of the plan than any other, and that the first 
outlay could be better borne. Another reason is, that it is desn^able to 
have the first catalogue prepared near to the Institution, where the 
whole work can be more conveniently supervised and rendered 
accurate. It is much to be hoped, for the success of the plan, that this 
recommendation may be soon followed. The Institution has borne 
alone the expense of developing the system, and it can reap no greater 
benefits than any other library of equal size. The expense of furnish- 
ing the first stock of titles to be used for all other libraries can ill be 
borne. If the work be stopped when our own means of continuing it 
are exhausted, much that has been done will be lost. It will be im- 
possible to resume operations after an interval of cessation, without 
gi-eat loss. It should be remarked that it is not necessary to finish the 
preparation of a catalogue before beginning to print it. The stereo- 
typing may commence with the cataloguing, and the catalogue may 
begin witli any part of the library. The catalogue may thus be 
published in parts, each containing the books on a particular subject. 
These parts may afterwards be combined to form the complete cata- 
logue, which may be either alphabetical or classed. 

I close by most earnestly asking for this matter the immediate 
consideration of the Board of Regents, confident that but a small sum 
of money, compared with the great result to be gained, is now needed 
to secure the general adoption of this system, and the fiiU realization 
of all the benefits which it is calculated to bestow upon the cause ot 
knowledge. 

Respectfully submitted : 

C. C. JEWETT. 



S. Mis. 53. 45 



REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY, IN CHARGE 
OF THE MUSEUM, &c. 



To Joseph Henry, LL. D., 

Secretarij of the Smithsonian Institution : 

Sir : In obedience to your requirement, I have the honor herewith 
to present a report upon the following branciies of operations given 
into my charge. 

I.— PUBLICATIONS. 

In no previous year have the publications of the Institution been so 
numerous and varied as in the one just passed. In addition to two 
quarto volumes of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, a consid- 
erable number of" octavo worlds and miscellaneous matter have been 
issued. 

The following list contains an enumeration of the separate articles in 
volume III, Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, the whole making 
a volume of 564 quarto pages, and 35 plates. With the exception of 
Nos. 3, 8, and 9, aU were issued during 1S52. 

List of Memoirs in volume III, Smithsoniari Contributions. 

1. Observations on Terrestrial Magnetism. By John Locke, M. D., 

M. A. P. S. ; pp. 30. 

2. Researches on Electrical Rheometr}^ By A. Secchi ; pp. GO, and 

three plates. 

3. Contributions to the Natural History of the Fresh Water Fishes of 

North America. By Charles Girard — I. A Monograph of the 
Cottoids ; pp. 80, and three plates. 

4. Nereis Boreali-Americana, or Contributions to a History of the Ma- 

rine Alga:; of North America. By William Henry Harvey, M. D., 
M. R. I. A.; Part I, Melanospermea'; pp. 152, and twelve plates. 

5. PlanU'c Wrightianas Texano-Neo-]Mcxicante. By Dr. Asa Gray, 

INI. D. ; Part I ; pp. 146, and ten plates. 

6. The Law of Deposit of the Flood Tide; its Dynamical Action and 

Office. By Charles Henry Davis, Lieut. U. S. Navy ; pp. 14. 

7. Description of Ancient Works in Ohio. By Charles Whittlesey ; 

pp. 20, and seven plates. 

8. Occultations visible in the United States during the year 1852. 

Computed by John Downes, esq. ; pp. 34. 

9. Ephemeris of Neptune for the year 1852. By Scars C. Walker, 

esq. ; pp. 10. 



46 S. Mis. 53. 

The fourth volume, also issued and distributed in 1852, consists of a 
single work, viz: Grammar and Dictionary of the Dacota Language. 
Edited by the Rev. S. R. Riggs ; pp. 41G. 

Several Memoirs, intended lor the 5th and 6th volumes, are in press, as 
follows : 

Memoir on the Fossil American Ox. By Dr. Joseph Leidy. 
Plant^e Wrightianae, Part II. By Dr. Asa Gray. 
North American Alga3, Part II. By Dr. Harvey. 
Plantse Fremontianae. By Dr. John Torrey. 

In addition to these, the following are ready to go to press : 

Nervous Anatomy of Rana Pipie?is. By Dr. J. Wyman. 
Winds of the Northern Hemisphere. By Prof. J. H. Coffin. 
A Fauna and Flora of Animals. By Dr. J. Leidy. 
Fossil Vertebrata of Nebraska. By Dr. Leidy. 
Nearly all the illustrations of these have been completed, and are 
ready for binding with the text, whenever ready. 

Of octavo works, the following have appeared : 

1. The Sixth Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution ; pp. 100. 

2. Directions for Making Collections in Natural History ; pp. 24. 

3. On the Construction of Catalogues of Libraries and of a General 
Catalogue. By Prof C. C. Jewett ; pp. 78. 

4. Meteorological and other Tables. B}' Prof A. Gu3'ot; pp. 176. 

5. Catalogue of Paintings in the Stanley Gallery ; pp. 76. 
Making a total of 980 pages quarto and 514 octavo. 

There are now in press — 

1. Catalogue of Serpents in the Museum of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 

2. Bibliography of American Natural History for 1852. 

A second edition cf the Report on Recent Improvements in the 
Chemical Arts, has been called for by the public and distributed. 

In addition to the above, a large number of circulars, calling for or 
communicating information on a great variety of subjects, has been 
issued. 

II.— DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLICATIONS AND EXCHANGES. 
{a.) FOREIGN DISTRIBUTION. 

The experience of the year 1852 has given gratif^dng evidence of 
the efficiency of the system of foreign exchanges now followed by the 
Smithsonian Institution, The receipts for the year will be found to have 
increased nearly eight-fold over those of 1851. The undertaking on the 
part of the Smithsonian Institution to receive parcels from the various 
societies in the United States, and distribute them to its agents 
in Europe, and to receive their foreign exchanges in return, has been 
found productive of the happiest results. The scientific relations be- 
tween the two worlds have been very much strengthened in this way, 
and a correspondence established of the greatest importance to all 
parties. It may safely be estimated that at least three-fourths of the 



S. Mis. 53. 47 

scierxlific exchanges of this country and of Europe now pass through the 
Smithsonian Institution. The expense, which is borne by the Institu- 
tion, though considerable, is trifling in proportion to the good accom- 
plished in the diffusion of knowledge. The more minute statistics of 
this branch of exchanges will be given in the tables below. 

In addition to the publications of societies, numerous copies of several 
valuable Avorks have been given by individuals to the Institution for 
distribution. In many cases it has been left to the Institution to select 
the foreign recipients of presents both from societies and individuals. 

The amount of matter to be sent to Europe was very large. The 
publications of the Institution, consisting of two quarto volumes and a 
number of octavos, were double, in number, those of the last year. 
The Senate ordered three hundred copies of Foster and Whitney's re- 
port on Lake Superior, one hundred of Captain Stansbury's report of 
the Exploration of Utah, and one hundred of Dr. Owen's report of the 
geology of Iowa, Wisconsin, and Minnesota. The kindness of Mr. R. 
P. Anderson, superintendent of the document-room, and of Mr. Dooley, 
superintendent of the folding-room of the Senate, put the Institution in 
possession of a large number of public documents of scientific interest. 
The Indian Bureau sent one hundred and seventy-eight volumes of the 
History of the Indian Tribes ; and the institutions of the country gen- 
erall}'- forwarded large numbers of their Transactions. The labor of 
arranging the details of the transmission was of course very great, the 
titles being first entered in the order of reception, then posted up in a 
ledger, in which a debit and credit account is kept with each corre- 
spondent, and a minute invoice of the entries made out and a co-pj sent 
by mail. Precisely the same system is adopted in regard to the parcels 
received from Europe, being first entered in a day-book, then posted 
up in a ledger, and finally transcribed a third time in the letter of 
acknowledgment. Parcels for other institutions are likewise entered 
in a special book, and a memorandum kept of the date and mode of 
transmission. 

In the present case the number of letters with invoices, prepared 
and sent, amounted nearly to six hundred, many of them containino- 
upwards of fifty titles. 

The making up of the parcels occupitnl about a week, and tlie en- 
tire foreign transmission left the Smithsonian Institution l^y the 21st of 
June. The cases, as before, were sent to Dr. J. G. Fliigel, of Leip- 
sic, to H. Bossange, Paris, and to Henry Stevens, bf London, all of 
whom evinced the greatest energy and promptness in their distribu- 
tion. Tliis distribution has been nearly completed, so that every for- 
eign mail brings warm acknowledgments of the liberality ot the Insti- 
tution. Notices of this transmission have appeared in many of the 
foreign journals, and much admiration expressed of the extent and 
completeness with which the institution is fulfilling its great mission. 

The following table presents the statistics of the sending of June, 
1852. The names of tlie institutions themselves will be f()und in the 
list given in the ajipendix. To some of these the full series of publi- 
co tions are not sent, but only works on special subjects. The total 
number, as will be seen, is 300, of which 207 receive the Smithsonian 
Contributions in full. 



48 



S. Mis. 5S. 



A. — Table exhibiting the amount of printed matter sent 

ABROAD IN 1852 BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

1. Distributed hj Dr. J. G. Flilgcl, hcipsic. 



Countries. 


a 
.2 

1 


w 

a 
1— 1 


O ns 
^1 


o ^ 

S.2 
jjj .IS 

(2-2 


o . 

iac-a 

II 


o o 

t_, as 


Sweden ...... ................ 


6 

4 

1 

4 

11 

11 

67 

8 

10 

1 






14 

7 

1 

8 

16 

19 

133 

15 

19 

2 
















Iceland . ... 










Denmark 










Russia 










Holland 










Germany 










Belgium 










Switzerland 










Batavia 




















Total 


123 


24 


147 


234 


37 


271 







2. Distributed by Hector Bossange, Paris. 





. 






® 00 


o • 






a 


05 




"^ fl 










ci 


*« S^ 


00 o 




tt- M 
















Countries. 


a 


r2 


"3 S 


^1 


tCnS 

5'> 


ci cs 




■-W 


r^ 


® '^ 




O T3 


-S-^ 




a 


a 


E-i'^ 


=s a 


«s a 


H as 




l-H 


1— ( 


oj 


fL|.rH 


P-i — 


P. 


France. ... ....... .......... 


54 
•25 






70 
29 






Italy 




















Total 


79 


10 


89 


99 


10 


109 







Distributed througli the Royal Society atid the agency of Henry Stevens, 

London. 



Countries. 


00 

.2 

a 


to 


o <u 

00 

1— w 

"C rS 


Packages to 
institutions. 


o ^ 

re c^ 
V 3 

P-I-' 


-2 .a 
o o 


Portugal 


1 

4 
60 






2 

5 

113 






Spain 










Great Britain 




















Total 


65 


28 


93 


120 


34 


154 







S. Mis. 53. 

4. Miscellaneous Distribution. 



49 



Countries. 


a 

.S 

a 


CO 

.1 

> 

a 


V- to 

O 0) 


e 00 

■^ a 
£.2 




o S 
o o 


Greece, Turkey, Asia, ami 
Africa 


17 
16 






19 
19 






Mexico aiitl South America. . 




















Total 


33 




33 


38 




38 











5. General Summary. 



Agents. 



i 


o 


OS • 
P< S 

a ^ 


to 


3 


^ 


p- 


® 2 






ns 


• 




c» 


.2 +i 




'S « 


ci «3 




•^ ra 


=3 « 


O bo 


P< 


u 


.^•=s 












"cS 


05 


-S = 


a 


p< 


^ 


O 

H 


^^' 


;5 


03 


147 


271 


214 


25 


125 


89 


109 


112 


9 


45 


93 


154 


97 


8 


73 


33 


38 


33 


4 


20 


362 


.572 


456 


46 


263 



.a 



Dr. J. G. FlUgel 
H. Bossange... 

H. Stevens 

Miscellaneous . . 

Total.. 



4,250 

•1,530 

2,445 

660 



9,885 



G. Total of Vohimes sent. 



Presents from the Smithsonian Institution 
Presents from otliers 

Total 



5,756 
3,439 



9,195 



Many of the above-menlioned parcels contained packages for insti- 
tutions or individuals not in direct correspondence with the Smithsonian 
Institution. As a letter of advice was sent to each of these, the difler- 
ence between the number of addresses in the above tables, and the 
number of letters sent, expresses the number of such packages, viz : 

Number of letters ;3ent 456 

Number of Smithsonian addresses 362 

Difference expressing the included parcels 94 

Which added to 572 



Gives as the total of packages made up, and sent to 456 addresses, 666 
4 =^ 



50 S. Mis. 53. 

B. — Table exhibiting the amount of matter received from the 

DIFFERENT INSTITUTIONS IN THE UNITED STATES IN 1852 FOR DIS- 
TRIBUTION ABROAD. 

Obtained by the Smithsonian Institution from various 

sources, but exclusive of its own pubhcations 3,958 vols. 

Received from other sources, as follows : 

Boston Society of Natural History 34 

Dr. John C. Warren 100 

American Oriental Society 33 

Academy of Natural Sciences 492 

American Philosophical Society 68 

National Observatory 1,108 

Superintendent of Indian Affairs 178 

Coast Survey 222 

Topographical Bureau 21 

Commissioner of Patents 627 

Postmaster General 82 

Census Office 100 

Light-House Board •- 68 

Surgeon General 149 

Georgetown College 60 

American Journal of Science 50 

Ohio Board of Agriculture 51 

Presbyterian Board of Education 50 

Miscellaneous, including individuals 745 

4,188 vols. 

Totalreceived 8,146 " 



The actual number of volumes and titles is considerabty greater 
than the above, as of the 4,188 quoted as from other sources, 351 con- 
sisted of packages, each containing several volumes. This would 
make the sum total amount neaii}' to 9,000 volumes. 

Such volumes as were received subsequent to the 21st of June are 
still on hand, amounting to about 1,650. These would have been sent 
off early in the past autumn but for the desire to include with them the 
sixth Report of the Smithsonian Institution, the Report of the Superin- 
tendent of the Coast Survey, and of the Commissioner of Patents for 
1851, the final Report on the Geology of Iowa, Minnesota, and Wiscon- 
sin, and some others. It is confidently expected that ail will be des- 
patched early in January, to prepare the way for the large transmission 
in June. 

In table C will be found an exhibit of the receipts of the Smithsonian 
Institution from abroad in 1852. For convenience of comparison, I 
have added the returns for 1851, and prior dates. 



S. Mis. 53. 



51 



C. — Table exhibiting the receipts by exchange in 1852, and 

INCLUDING THOSE OF PUEVIOUS YEARS. 







Volumes. 




Parts of vols, and pamphlets. 


Maps and 
engrav's. 




"i ears. 


Folio ami 
quarto. 


Octavo. 


Total. 


Folio and, Octavo, 
quarto. 


Total. 


Total. 


1852 


449 

9G 

132 


171 

138 


1,133 

267 
270 


495 


1,414 


1.909 
342 
608 


1,698 


4, 745 


1851 


118 


224 


609 


1850 ami prior.. 


873 


1 






Total 


677 


993 


1,675 


613 


1,638 


2,859 1,693 


6,232 



It will be seen from the above table that the total receipts for 1S52 
have been three times as great as during all previous years. The 
number of extended series of Transactions, and other desirable works, 
has been in unusual proportion. Among these I can only mention a 
few: as 30 volumes, 8vo., of Transactions and Reports from the Acad- 
emy of Sciences, Stockholm ; 21 volumes, 4to., of Transactions of the 
Danish Society of Sciences, Copenhagen; 23 volumes, Svo., of Memoirs 
of the Academic Nationale of Mctz ; 26 volumes, Svo., of the Trans- 
actions of the Society of Agriculture, &c., of Lyons; 17 volumes Svo., 
and 1 foHo, of Gay's History of Chili, from the Chilian government ; 
25 volumes, 4to., of Philological works, published by the East India 
Company ; 29 volumes, 4to., of Transactions of the Batavian Society 
of Experimental Philosophy ; 20 volumes, 4to., of Transactions of the 
Royal Society of Edinburg ; 1,574 charts from the London Admiralty; 
22 quarto and 25 octavo volumes of Transactions of the Utrecht 
Society of Arts and Sciences ; 31 volumes Svo., and many folio, be- 
longing to the Voyages of the Astrolabe et Zelee, Venus, Thetis et 
Esperance, &c., presented by the Ministere de la Marine of France ; 
16 volumes, 4to., from the Royal College of Surgeons, of London ; 54 
volumes, 4to., of Manuscripts from J. (). Halliwell, of London; 14 
volumes, 4to., from the Academy of Sciences, Bologna ; with very many 
others. Almost every parcel from a foreign society contains donations 
from prominent members, of works, many of them often very costly. 
In fact, the books received in 1852 could scarcely have been purchased 
for less than four or five thousand d(jllars. 

The following table exhibits the number of parcels, many of them 
including several volumes, which have been received in 1852 for other 
institutions in the United States. 

D. — Table of packages received in 1852 for other institutions. 



Boston. — American Academy of Arts and Sciences 24 

Natural History Society 10 



52 S. Mis. 53. 

Cambridge. — Observatory 14 

Astronomical Journal 29 

New Haven. — Journal of Science 20 

American Oriental Society 5 

New YorJc. — New York Lyceum of Natural History 10 

Ethnological Society 11 

Albany. — New York State Librar}'^ 4 

Philadeljjhia. — American Philosophical Society 39 

Academy of Natural Sciences 13 

Franklin Institute 7 

Washington. — National Observatory 41 

Coast Survey 32 

National Institute 19 

Congress Library 6 

State Department 4 

Astronomical Expedition to Chili 14 

Georgetorvn. — College 7 

Cincinnati. — Observatory 10 

Miscellaneous institutions 123 

Individuals 195 

Total of packages 037 

It is much to be hoped that Congress may make some systematic 
and permanent arrangement for distributing a complete series of its 
works to European libraries, to at least thirty of which they might be 
judiciously supplied. It would also be desirable that of particular 
works of scientific interest, as reports of Patents, Coast Survey, ex- 
plorations in geography and geology, and others of a similar character, 
a larger number might be assigned, of from one hundred to three 
hundred, as has already been done in some instances by the Senate. 
These might be distributed by the Smithsonian Institution at moderate 
cost to government, and direct returns or exchanges obtained for the 
library of Congress if desired. 

The distribution of Congressional documents in the United States 
also might be considerably modified. At present the copies given to 
the State Department for domestic distribution can only be sent to 
colleges or lyceums, not to regular public libraries, even of the largest 
class. The rules in force with the Smithsonian Institution might well 
be applied in the present case, of making as equable a distribution as 
possible throughout the country, supplying all large public libraries, 
and giving to smaller ones where a large district would otherwise be 
destiiute. It is also a matter of complaint with men having special 
objects of research that public documents relating to their investigations 
are not assigned to them. This might be remedied by directing some 
department to keep full hsts of persons in the various walks of science, 
and to supply the names on such lists regularly with extra copies of 
documents to be furnished by Congress. How lar it would be conve- 
nient or proper for the Smithsonian Institution to undertake this labor, 
and under what conditions, is for you to say. 



S. Mis. 53. 53 

{b.) DOMESTIC DISTRIBUTION AND EXCHANGES. 

Owing to various unforeseen and vexatious delays, the copies of the 
Smithsonian volumes for domestic distribution could not be sent off be- 
fore October. They have, however, all been distributed, .and acknow- 
ledgments for nearly the entire number received. The Institution is 
much indebted to the following gentlemen for receiving the boxes con- 
taining the parcels and forwarding them, without any charge, to their 
respective destinations : Messrs. J. P. Jewett &. Co., booksellers, Bos- 
ton ; George P. Putnam Sc Co., booksellers. New York ; Messrs. Lip- 
pincott, Grambo, & Co., booksellers, Philadelphia ; John Russell, book- 
seller, Charleston ; B. M. Norman, bookseller. New Orleans ; Dr. Geo. 
Engelmann, St. Louis, assisted by John Halsall, bookseller, St. Louis ; 
H. W. Derby & Co., booksellers, Cincinnati ; and Jewett, l*roctor, & 
Worthington, Cleveland. As in the transmission of last year, most of 
the parcels sent included copies of the second volume of the great work 
on the Lidian tribes, presented by Mr. Luke Lea, Commissioner of 
Indian Aftairs, to recipients mostly nominated by the Smithsonian 
Institution. A number of copies of the valuable quarto volume on the 
North American mastodon, by Dr. John C. Warren, was sent by the 
author to the Smithsonian Institution, for such distribution as it might 
consider suitable. 

Ill— NATURAL HISTORY DEPARTMENT. 

(a.) COLLECTIONS. 

During the year 1852, the collections of specimens illustrating the 
natural history of North America, and received by the Institution, have 
been very numerous, embracing a large number of species, either 
quite rare or absolutely new to science. A list of these additions will 
be found in the Appendix — the number of distinct donations exceeding 
100. These embrace a very large number of specimens, as many of 
the collections indicated consist of several filled kegs, barrels, or boxes. 
To enumerate the individual components of each would occupy too 
much space in this report, although such a list is always made out as 
soon as possible after reception, and entc-red in books kept for the pur- 
pose. A copy is also sent to the donor, if desired. The specimens are 
assorted as fast as possible, and arranged as well as can be done in 
the temporary want of room or rooms t()r their proper preservation. 

A gratifying feature in relation to the additions to the mus(mm in the 
past year, consists in the number and value of those derived from offi- 
cers' of the army and navy. Such persons must always be the chief 
contributors of new matter, and it is a subject of much congratulation 
to find that they are b(>coming more and more alive to the importance 
of depositing their collections in a place where they can be readily 
visited, and, by combination with others procured under similar cir- 
cumstances, serve to facilitate the preparation of the reports of expedi- 
tions, which are usually, to a considerable extent, made out in this city. 
I need only refer to the valuable coll(X'tions of Lieut. Col. Graham, 
Major Emory, Captains Marcy and McClcllnn, Lieutenant Wright, Dr. 
Edwards, Dr. Jarvis, Lieutennnt Gilliss, and others. 

The collections of specimens officially deposited with the Institution 



54 S. Mis. 53. 

during the year 1S52, for safe-keeping and ihe preparation of reports, 
have been quite numerous. The zoological and pala3ontological series 
gathered by Mr. John H. Clark, under Lieutenant Colonel Graham, 
while on duty with the United States and Mexican boundary survey, 
far exceed any before made, under similar circumstances, in North 
America, considered in reference either to their extent or perfection 
of preservation. Major Emory has also sent in valuable specimens 
from the boundary, likewise collected by Mr. Clark. The Commissioner 
of the General Land Office deposited the extensive series of minerals 
and fossils collected by Dr. D. D. Owen, while engaged in the geolo- 
gical survey ol Iowa, Wisconsin, and Minnesota. The very extensive 
and valuable collections made during a three years' residence in Chili 
by Lieut. J. M. Gilliss, U. S. Navy, have also been deposited by him, 
under authority from the Secretary of the Navy. They consist of nu- 
merous and well preserved skins of birds and mammals, reptiles, fishes, 
and invertebrates, in alcohol or dried, and plants, fossils, and minerals. 

Many valuable collections have been received from meteorological and 
other regular correspondents of the Institution. These, scattered over 
the entire North American continent, constitute a corps always active 
in accumulating facts and materials of the highest importance in the 
promotion of science. 

Some interesting specimens have been received by the Smithsonian 
Institution, under an engagement made with several societies and sur- 
veys to name collections which may be sent for that purpose. Such 
specimens, if necessary, are sent to naturalists residing out of the city, 
who make their examinations and report the results to the Institution. 

The American Fur Company, ever ready to recognise the claims of 
science, has authorized the Institution to supply their posts on the upper 
JMissouri with the materials for preserving specimens of natural histoiy. 
For this purpose, through the kind agency of Dr. George Engelmann, 
of St. Louis, a quantity of alcohol and of arsenic was distributed at 
various points along that remete region, which will, no doubt, in time 
yield good fruit. The report for 1850 shows how much has already 
been done by gentlemen connected with the company, and it is hoped 
that the results for 1853 will in no degree fall behind what is there 
recorded. 

I shall now proceed to give a brief systematic account of the speci- 
mens received, referring to the alphabetical list of donors for fuller 
information on the subject. 

Mammals. — The collection of mammals from Northern Europe, an- 
nounced last year as having been transmitted by the Academy of Sci- 
ences, Stockholm, has since arrived, and fully realized the anticipations 
of its value. It consists of well-preserved skins and skeletons of nearly 
all the larger species, as reindeer, elk, stag, bears, wolves, foxes, glut- 
ton, &c. All of them are indispensable to the proper determination of 
the allied American species — a task which could never before be 
accomplished for want of just such material. At the present time the 
Smithsonian Institution is in possession of the best collection of the 
larger North American and European mammalia, both skins and skele- 
tons, to be found in the United States. 

A skin oi' Bassaris asttita, brought by Captajp Marcy from Red river, 



S. Mis. 53. 55 

supplies the most northern locality yet known of tliis species. Some 
valuable mammals, from Western America, have been presented by 
the Academy of Natural Sciences. Skulls and horns of the common 
deer have been received from Mr. Stanley, Mr. Guest, and others. Mr. 
Stanley has also presente^d skins of the ja2;aar, Fclis jmrdaJh, and th'.'. 
peccary, Dicoti/les torfpiatus, from Texas. ]Mr. Charles Wright, so well 
known for his botanical researches, has given a sldn of the hynx tcx- 
ensis, or Texas wild-cat. From Lieut. M. F. Maury has been received 
a skin of a young manatee, brought from the Amazon river by Lieut. 
Herndon. 

Among skeletons of American mammals, the principal donation is 
that of the gray wolf of the Yellowstone river, presented by Mr. Ed- 
ward T. Denig, to whom the Institution has been betore indebted for 
similar favors. Dr. Edwards presented skulls of buffalo, bighorn, &c., 
with those of Indians of several tribes. 

Birds. — Several interestins: collections of birds have been received 
from various sources. Mr. James Fairle has presented some rare 
species from Louisiana ; Mr. Chas. Wright, a series from the vicinity 
of Frontera, including several species recently described from the 
valley of the Rio Grande ; and Dr. P. R. Hoy, some from the vicinity 
of Racine, Wisconsin, one of the most interesting ornithological districts 
in North America. Mr. Wanin2;ton has sent an interestins: collection 
of the eggs of birds inhabiting the Tortugas. 

Ilcptilcs. — As usual, the most marked additions to the collections of 
the Institution are to be found in the department of reptiles and fishes. 
These have been received from all portions of the United States, inclu- 
ding California, New Mexico, and Texas. Mr. J. S. Bowman, during a 
recent journey to California across the plains, collected specimens of 
Phynosoina jilatyrhinos, and forwarded them living, with some others 
of much interest. Dr. Boyle has deposited a valuable collection from 
Eldorado county, Cahfbrnia. A small number of specimens procured 
by Dr. Gambel, in the same country, has also come into posses- 
sion of the Institution. INIr. Lindheimer sends numerous specimens 
from W^estern Texas; Captains Marcy and McClellan, from Red river ; 
Mr. James Fairie, in Western Louisiana ; Colonel B. L. C. W^ailes and 
Dr. Shumard, in Mississippi ; Dr. P. R. Hoy, of Racine, Wisconsin ; 
and Rev. Charles Fox, of W.ayne county, Michigan, have also greatly 
enriched the collection with western species. Species from Western 
Pennsylvania have been received from Professor Williams ; and from 
South Carolina, from Dr. Barker, of Charleston, and Dr. Barratt, of 
Abbeville. 

Fishes. — The collections in this dc^partmcnt grow with great rapidity. 
Mr. Girard brought many specimens from Maine last autumn. A few 
v^eeks spent in Massachusetts and New Hampshire gave to mj'selfthe 
opportunit}'' of completing tlie collections of fi^esh-water fishes of these 
States. Very full collections of the fishes of Lalce Erie have been re- 
ceived from Rev. Charles Fox ; of Lake Michigan, from Dr. Hoy ; of 
the Wabash river, from Dr. Norwood ; of the coast of Carolina, from 
Dr. Barker; of the Torlugas, from Lieut. Wright; of Ca3'Uga kdve, 
from Mr. Hopkins ; as well as interesting series from Col. Wailes, of 
Mississippi; Prof. Porter, of Mercersburg, Pennsylvania; Mr. White, 



56 S. Mis. 53. 

of Georgia; Dr. Bibb, of Russellville, Kentucky; Dr. Barratt, of Abbe- 
ville, South Carolina; Dr. Wormlej; of Columbus, Ohio ; Dr. Stevens, 
of Olean, New York, and many others. One of the most important 
additions consists of a series of nineteen species of Cyprinodonts, 
labelled by Prof. Agassiz, and serving as types of the paper on this 
family which he proposes to present to the Institution. Numerous 
species of Nerth European fishes were presented by the Swedish 
Academy of Sciences, Stockholm. 

Invertebrates. — Very important additions have been made to the 
aquatic species of invertebrates from various sources. Among the 
most valuable are those sent from the Tortugas by Lieut. Wright, em- 
bracing a large number of new and rare forms. A collection of similar 
extent, from the coast of Carolina, was forwarded by Lieut. Kurtz. 
Unionidce have been received from Col. Wailes, of Mississippi, and 
Prof Saflbrd, of Tennessee, in large numbers. A small collection of 
land shells, from Oregon, was presented by Dr. Shumard : out of four- 
teen species furnished, six are new to science. A very important addi- 
tion to the collection consists of a series of eighty species of shells from 
Greenland, presented by Mr. Christian Drewsen, of Copenhagen. 

The insects received have been few in number, and these principally 
from Mr. Fairie, who sent quite a large collection of Lepidoptera and 
Colenptera. Many species of Orthoptera were procured on Red river 
by Captain Marcy, and in Texas by Mr. Lindheimer. 

Fla?its. — A collection of plants of Delaware county, Pennsylvania, 
was presented by the Delaware County Institute. A suite of plants, 
collected by Lindheimer in Texas, was obtained through Dr. Engel- 
mann. Dr. Shumard sent a small collection from Oregon. Valuable 
donations of algas were made to the Institution by Miss Brewer, 
Lieut. Kurtz, &c. A small series belonging to Lieut. Lynch's col- 
lections on the shores of the Dead Sea was presented by Hon. J. P. 
Kennedy. 

Fossils and minerals. — The Commissioner of the Land Office has 
deposited with the Institution additional specimens of fossils from the 
Minnesota survey, collected by Dr. Owen, including some of the 
vertebrate remains from Nebraska. Infusorial earths from Virginia 
have been received from Prof, William B. Rogers and Dr. Beck. A 
suite of coal plants was sent from the mines above Harrisburg, Penn- 
sylvania, and a series of silurian fossils from Dr. Stevens, of Olean. 
Remains of fossil elephant, from near Wheeling, were presented by 
Mr. Alfred Sears, and of mastodon, from Fort Gibson, by Mr. B. 
Marshall. Lieut. Gilliss forwarded a very interesting collection of 
fossils from Chili. The principal minerals received consisted of gold 
and silver ores from Mexico, presented by Dr. Jarvis, together with 
copper ores from Chili, by Lieut. Gilliss. 

Ethnology. — Various remains of the North American Indians have 
been received by the Institution during the year; but much the most 
important addition in this department is to be found in a large number 
of axes, arrow-heads, and other stone instruments, from Denmark, 
presented by Prof. C. C. Rafn, of Copenhagen ; thus affording an 
interesting opportunity of comparing the closely allied implements 
used by the aborigines of Europe and of North America. 



S. Mis. 53. 57 

{h.J PRESENT CONDITION OF THE COLLECTIONS. 

During the year as much progress lias been made in tb(; final deter- 
mination and arrangement of the specimens as the press of other occupa- 
tions would allow. Those in alcohol tiave been kept in proper condi- 
tion, and such dried skins have been baked as needed this process as a 
preservative against the attacks of insects. A number of mammals, 
preserved in alcohol, have been dried lor the purpose of ascertaining 
accurately their specific character. The unfinished state of the mu- 
seum apartment renders it necessary to confine the collections in as 
small space as possible, none but basement rooms being available. 
The labor of labelling the specimens is greatly increased by the fact 
that man}?- of the species are undescribed. In illustration of this I may 
state, that in the single department of the serpents, the Institution 
possesses more than twice as many North American species as are 
given in the great work of Dr. Hoibrook. To render this mass ot 
matter immediately available to science, the preparation of catalogues 
has been commenced, similar to those of the British Museum and the 
Museum of Natural History in Paris. In these, lull descriptions of the 
genera and species will be given, and such known species as may not 
have been received by the Institution will be inserted in an appendix. 
Each volume will thus constitute a complete manual of a portion of 
the natural history of North America. The first of these catalogues — 
that of the serpents — is in press, and will very shortly be finished. 

(c.) SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES. 

A great many applications have been made to the Institution, by 
parties at home and abroad, for information or assistance in making 
exchanges of specimens of natural history. Such help is always cheer- 
fully rendered, and some important relationships have been thus estab- 
lished. Some of the gentlemen who have made these applications are 
d{S follows : 

Christian Drewsen, Copenhagen, desires to exchange North Euro- 
pean and Algerian Coleojitcra for ColeniHera, Lc^ndoplcra, and Ilcnuj^ittra, 
of North America. 

Fkiedkich Sturm, Niirnberg, and Adolph Senoner, Vienna, wish 
American ferns in exchange for European. 

Dr. G. Von dem Busch, Bremen, wants North American shells, 
especially Mehmue, in exchange for European. 

I'rof H. K. CoppERT, Breslau, director of the botanic garden, wants 
seeds of all plants common to Europe and America, as an auxiliary to 
certain investigations upon the influence of climatological conditions 
upon vegetation. 

B. Cazenirvette, Rue Pelegrin, and Dumoulin, aine, S Place de 
la Bourse, Bordeaux, desire North American fresh-water and land shells 
in exchange for European. 

Dr. Francesco Lanza, of Spalato, in Dalmatia, desires to exchange 
fossils, minerals, reptiles, shells, plants, &c., of Dalmatia, and the 
Adriatic, for crystallized minerals and shells from North America. 



58 S. Mis. 53. 

(d.) REGISTRY OF PERIODICAL PHENOMENA. 

The blanks for the registry of the periodical phenomena of animal and 
vegetable life in 1852, were distributed early in the last spring. Most 
of these have been returned filled, and imbody information of ihe high- 
est interest. Many were accompanied by carefully-prepared lists of the 
animals and plants of their respective stations ; constituting material 
towards an accurate determination of the geographical distribution of 
species. The results thus obtained will be carefully tabulated and 
published at the earliest practicable moment. 
Respectfully submitted : 

SPENCER F. BATRD, 

Assistant Secretary, 



APPENDIX A. 

Account of scientific explorations, andrejwrts on explorations, made in Ame- 
rica, durifig the year 1852 : By Spencer F. Baird. 

In the present article I propose to give a brief account of the pro- 
gress of scientific explorations in America during the year 1852. It 
will be seen that the record is much more extensive than that of the 
last year, affording gratifying proof of the increasing interest felt by 
government and individuals in the development of the geography, 
geology, ethnology, and physical and natural science of this country. 

I propose to take up the history of discovery in the following order : 

1. Smithsonian Institution. 

2. War Department. 

3. Topographical Bureau. 

4. Department of the Interior. 

5. Land Office. 

6. Navy Department. 

7. Coast Survey. 

8. Domestic States, Societies, and Individuals. 

9. European States, Societies, and Individuals. 

As the account of the operations of the Smithsonian Institution, in 
the way of exploration, has already been given in j^our report, I shall 
proceed directly to the second head. 

2. War Department. 

Exj)loration of Red River. — In June of last year an expedition was 
sent out by the War Department for the purpose of exploring the 
country along the Red river of Arkansas and its tributaries, under 
command of Captain R. B. Marcy, so well known as an energetic 
explorer, and accompanied by Captain Geo. B. McClellan. The 
party started from Cache creek, a stream risingin the Wichita mount- 
ains and emptying into Red river. Fom this point they passed along 
the ridge separating Cache creek from Red river, to Otter creek. 
The mouth of this stream, in lat. 34° 30' and long. 100° 10', was 
found to constitute the southwestern terminus of the Wichita mount- 
ains, a range about seventy miles long an(4 twenty-five wide. In 



S. Mis. 53. 59 

these mountains, and beyond, many interesting discoveries of granite, 
basalt, great beds of g3'psum, &c., were made. Passing along the 
north fork of Red river to its head, they crossed over to tlie Canadian. 
From this stream they struck and explored the middle and south forks 
of Red river ; along the latter of which they returned. Astronomical 
and other observations were diligently made throughout the journey, 
and many important facts ascertained in regard to the? geology, agri- 
cultural capabilities, and geography of tliis region, hitherto nearly a 
blank in our maps. A very extensive collection of plants, reptiles, 
fishes, insects, fossil remains, &c., was made, which, besides embracing 
much that is new, will tend to throw great light upon the geographical 
distribution of species. 

3. Topographical Bureau. 

Exploration of the Zuni and Colorado rivers. — The expedition for the 
exploration of the Zuni river, organized under Captain L. Sitgreaves, 
returned last winter, after having accomplished all its objects in a 
remarkabh'- short space oi"time. Accompanied by Lieut. J. G. Parke, 
Dr. S. W. Woodhouse as surgeon and naturalist, Mr. R. H. Kern as 
artist, and Mr. A. Leroux as guide, the parly left the pueblo ol Zuni 
on the 24th of September with an escort of thirty men, commanded 
by Major H. L. Kendrick, of the 3d artillery. Passing down the 
^uni (which proved to be an inconsiderable stream) to its junction 
with the Little Colorado, sixty miles below, they continued down to 
the Cascades, some eighty-six miles further, where the stream fails 
into a deep caiion. From this point they were compelled to strike 
across to the Colorado, and descended this stream about two hundred 
and fifty miles to its mouth. Crossing over to San Diego, they arrived 
at the termination of that part of their journey in the end of December. 
A great part of the route never having been before explored, much 
was done by the expedition in rectifying and improving the geography 
of the region, while Dr. Woodhouse made use of the scanty opportu- 
nsities afforded by the barren soil, to cohect specimens of natural history, 
many of which have proved new to science. These will be published 
in the report of the expedition, shortly to be submitted to Congress. 

Survey of the Lakes. — The survey of the Northern lakes has been 
carried on with great energy during the past year. Besides extending 
and verifying the triangulations in the vicinity of Green Bay and 
INIackinac, a base line was measured at the latter place under the 
immediate direction of Captain T. J. Lee. The apparatus with which 
this important work was conducted was made by Mr. Wm. Wurdemann 
of this city, and is considered to be fully equal, if not to surpass any 
ever used before for similar purposes. 

Exploration of Utah. — The report of Captain Stansl)ury of his explo- 
ration of the valley of the Great Salt J^ake appear(!d in June, 1S52. As 
in most of the recent explorations undertaken by the Topographical 
Bureau, man}^ important discoveries in natural science were made 
during this exploration, the results of which are here given. INIany 
new species of mammals, birds, reptiles, insects, plants, and fossU. 
remains, are first published in this report. The additions to our geo- 
graphical information have also been very extensive, tending greatly 



60 S. Mis. 53. 

to clear up the obscurity which prevails in regard to the geography of 
the great Central Basin. The discovery of a new route and pass 
through the Rocky mountains is also one of very great importance. 

4. Department of the Interior. 

United States and Mexican Boundary Survey. — During the past year 
the operations on the boundary line between the United States and 
Mexico, under John R. Bartlelt, esq., and Major William H. Emory, 
have been prosecuted with great vigor. The survey of the river Gila 
has been completed from its confluence with the Colorado to the point 
where it is struck by the western boundary of New Mexico. The Rio 
Grande has also been surveyed from the initial point agreed upon, to 
the Laredo, with the exception of a strip between San Vicente and the 
mouth of the Pecos. The connecting link between the two lines has 
also been surveyed provisionally. It is probable that, should Congress 
make suitable appropriations, the whole field work will be completed 
in 1853. In addition to the exceedingly numerous and accurate obser- 
vations in astronomy, geography, meteorology, and terrestrial magnetism, 
the collections in geology, mineralogy, zoology, and botany, made by 
Messrs. Parry, Wright, Clark, Bigelovv, Thurber, and Webb, have been 
of great extent and value, supplying us with almost as thorough a 
knowledge of many forms of organic life in this country as of the 
long-settled portions of the United States. The perseverance of the 
gentlemen of the commission has been rewarded by the acquisition to 
science of a large number of undescribed and rare species. 

5. Land Office. 

Geological Survey of Oregon, by Drs. Evans and SJmmard. — Dr. Evans 
left St. Louis in the month of June, and ascended the Missouri to the 
mouth of the Yellowstone. From this point he crossed over to the 
Pacific coast, pursuing an entirely different route from that traversed 
by other explorers. His route passed through the very centre of the 
Black Feet country, and over the Rocky, Blue Range, and Cascade 
mountains, terminating at Oregon City; which he reached about the 
middle of October. In this journey, though accompanied a gi-eat por- 
tion of the way by only a single man, he explored the main chain of the 
Rocky mountains for a distance of nearly two hundred miles, without 
a guide, or even a trail, and discovered a pass several degrees farther 
north than that usually travelled. The observations made along the line 
of his route will enable him to construct a geological section from the 
Mississippi river to the Pacific ocean. Many geographical facts were 
collected of the highest value, which will constitute a very important 
addition to our stock of knowledge in relation to a portion of country 
hitherto almost entirely unknown. 

The assistant geologist. Dr. Shumard, embarked from New York in 
the latter part of June of the same year, and proceeded, by way of 
the isthmus of Panama, to San Francisco, and thence to Oregon, where 
he arrived early in August, and shortly after began his explorations, 
following the main lines of survey, and locating his observations, as far 
as practicable, by townships and sections. 

In addition to the materials for accurate geom-aphical determinations, 



S. Mis. 53. 61 

the results of the observations of Drs. Evans and Shumard have been of 
the greatest practical importance. Valuable and extensive deposits of 
limestone, porcelain earth, tertiary coal, &c., were ascertained to exist. 

Geological Surrey of Lulic Superior. — In obedience to instructions 
firom the Land Office, jNIessrs. Foster and Wliitncy revisited the scene 
of their previous explorations on Lake Superior, with the view of 
collecting the most recent information respecting the nu'ning region. 
Th(^y will probably submit the result to Congress in the ibrm of a final 
report upon the entire subject of the mineral hinds of this interesting 
region. 

The final report of Dr. D. D. Oiuen on the Geology of Wisconsin, Iowa, 
and Mmnesota, was published towards the end of the year 1852. This 
constitutes the most elaborate work of the kind ever issued by govern- 
ment, consisting of two (juarto volumes, with numerous illustrations on 
wood and steel. The pakeontological portion is of much importance, 
containing, in addition to the invertebrata described by Dr. Owen, a 
p;iper by Dr. Joseph Lcidy on the fossil Jthinoccros, Pal(eotherium, 
Arc/ueothcrium, Testudo, Sec, of the Mauvaises Torres. 

The second part of the Report of Messrs. Foster a7id Whitney on the 
Geology of Lalie Superior also appeared during the past year. With 
the able assistance of Professor James Hall, they have been enabled 
to present some very important comparisons between the fossils and 
Ibssiliferous rocks of Europe and America, besides describing many 
new species. 

6. Navy Department. 

The year 1852 will ever V)e memorable in the annals of the Ameri- 
can navy for the extent of the explorations either completed or com- 
menced within its limhs. Under the liberal administration and en- 
lightened policy of the Hon. J. P. Kennedy, Secretary of the Navy, 
all the disposable force of the department has been brought to bear 
upon the advancement of geographical knowledge. 

Astronomical Expiedition to Chili. — Lieut. Gilliss returned in Novem- 
ber last from a three years' residence at Santiago, in Chili, to which 
place he had gone f()r tlie purpose of observing the parallax of \'enus. 
During the time of his absence he made more than forty thousand 
observations on this planet, besides gathering a very large number of 
f lets in regard to other departments of astronomy, magnetism, meteor- 
ology, earthquakes, geography, &c. He also made very valuable 
collections in natural history, especially in ornithology, in many re- 
spects superior to those collected and pubhshed by Claude Gay, in his 
History of Chili. 

Lieut. McKae, who, with Lieut. Phelps, had been the companion of 
Lieut. Gilliss, was detached by him to carry a magnetical and meteor- 
ological profile across the continent over the Andes. 'J'his route will 
l)c, for the most part, through an unexplored region, and the result will 
no doubt be of very great interest. 

Exploration of the Amazon. — Lieut. Herndon, U. S. N., returned in 
the summer from his exploration, in connexion with Lieut. Gibbon, of 
the Amazon and its tributaries. As the most feasible wa.y of pene- 
trating this region, they crossed the Cordilleras, in Peru and Bolivia, 



62 S. Mis. 53. 

and passing through an ahnost unknown geographical region, descended 
the Amazon to its mouth. Lieut. Gibbon took a somewhat different 
route, and has not yet returned. Both gentlemen have, in addition to 
their physical investigations, made copious notes on the natural history 
of the countries traversed, which will, in time, be presented to Con- 
gress. 

Although not properly coming within the history of the past year, it 
may not be inappropriate to mention some of the enterprises in con- 
templation for 1S53, which are in an active state of forwardness, and 
which bid fair to render this year conspicuous above all others in the 
annals of American discovery. The most important of these is the 
proposed survey of the seas of the North Pacific and Behiing's straits, 
under Captain Cadwallader Ringgold. This officer will leave early in 
the spring with four vessels, all constructed and fitted for the purpose. 
He will take with him a complete outfit of instruments and apparatus 
for the successful prosecution of all branches of physical science, in 
addition to the hydrographical details, upon which he will, of course, 
bestow especial attention. By the liberal construction of the law of 
Congress ordering this survey, on the part of Mr. Kennedy, he will be 
accompanied by a corps of naturalists well skilled in their respective 
duties, and provided with all the material necessary to a successful 
prosecution of their investigations and explorations. 

The next exploration in contemplation is that of the river Parana 
and its trihitarics. Captam Page has been assigned to this duty, and, 
in command of a small steamer, will start in a few weeks. The limited 
accommodations on board prevented the addition of a naturalist to the 
corps, but this want will be made up by the zeal of the officers them- 
selves, who go fully provided with the means for making collections. 
Much of interest will doubtless be furnished by the plants of this un- 
explored region. The expedition will be accompanied by an experi- 
enced horticulturalist, who will collect roots, seeds, and Hving plants, as 
well as dried specimens. 

Dr. Kane, U. S. N., so well known as an enterprising traveller, will 
proceed next April on a second voyage in search of Sir John Franklin, 
Supplied with the requisite funds by the munificence of Mr. Henry 
Grinnell and Mr. George Peabody, in connexion with the Geographical 
Society of New York, and of the Smithsonian Institution, and accom- 
panied by a picked crew. Dr. Kane will undoubtedly add much to our 
previous knowledge of the meteorology, magnetism, geograj:)!]}^, and 
natural history of the remote regions of the north. The expedition 
will be accompanied by a skilful collector, who will bestow especial 
attention upon the minute invertebrata of the Arctic ocean. 

Captain Lynch, to whom we are indebted for so much information 
respecting the Dead Sea, has again started upon a similar enterprise. 
Under the direction of the Secretary of the Navy, he will proceed to 
the coast of western Africa, touching at various points as fiir as the 
river Gaboon, for the purpose of ascertaining the most suitable point 
for penetrating this little known continent. As soon as his reconnois- 
sance has been completed, he will be supplied from home with an 
organization of vessels, men, apparatus, &c., necessary to continue his 
researches. Much is anticipated for science in this expedition, in 



S. Mis. 53. 63 

addition to the more immediate object of obtaining reliable information 
in respect to a future extension of colonization on the coast. 

7. Coast Survey. 

This highl}^ import;int work, under the able superintendence of Prof. 
A. D. Bache, has progressed rapidly during the past year. The 
division into sections, adopted some years ngo, seconded by liberal 
appropriations from Congress, has enabled the Superintendent to bring 
out results of the greatest value. The sections at present established 
are as follows : 

Scctioji I. From Passaranquoddy bay to Point Judith, including 
coasts of Maine, New Hampshire, INIassachusetts, and Rhode Island. 

Section II. From Point Judith to Cape Henlopen, including coasts 
of Connecticut, New York, New Jerse}^ Pennsylvania, and Delaware. 

Section III. From Cape Henlopen to Cape Henry, including coasts 
of Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia. 

Section IV. From (Jape Henry to Cape Fear, including coasts of 
Virginia and North Carolina. 

Section V. From Cape Fear to the St. Mary's river, including coasts 
of South Carolina and Georgia. 

Section VI. From St. jMary's river to St. Joseph's ba}^, under Anclote 
keys, including the Florida reefs and keys. 

Section VII. From St. Joseph's bay to Mobile Point, including the 
remainder of the coast of Florida. 

Section VIII. From Mobile Point to Vermillion bay, including coasts 
of Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana. 

Sectio7i IX. From Vermillion bay to IMexico, including part of coast 
of Louisiana and Texas. 

Sections X and XL Coast of California and Oregon. 

Our limits will not allow us to go into the particulars of operations 
on this great national work further than to state that, in every Section, 
trianguhitions, surveys, and soundings, in great number, have been 
made. The charts and sketches published or in progress amount to 
lipwards of eighty, and in point of mechanical execution and accuracy 
are unsurpassed. In addition to the strictly hydrographical and geo- 
detical operations, observati(^ns have been made in magnetism, meteor- 
ology, astronomy, tidal phenomena, &c., of the highest importance. 
Great interest, too, is felt by many offict^rs of the survey, in diflerent 
branches of natural history, which will yield practical results of great 
moment. 

8. Domestic States, Societies, axd Individuals. 

State Siirveys. — The geological surveys of the diflerent States, as 
referred to in my last report, are progressing with considerable rapidity. 
New York has published three additional volumes of her series of mag- 
nificent quartos — one of palaeontology, by Prof. James Hall ; the others 
on agriculture and on fruits, by Prof. E. Emmons. The field-work of 
the Pennsylvania survey, under Prof. H. D. Rogers, is nearl}'^ com- 
pleted, and the final report in active state of forwardness. Nortli Car- 
olina, Illinois, Mississippi, and the other States, are actively engaged 
in the development of their geological and palacontological history, under 



64 S. Mis. 53. 

the supervision of the able gentlemen to whom these trusts have been 
committed. 

Antiquities of Wisconsin. — Mr. J. A. Lapham, of Milwaukie, has com- 

Eleted the elaborate survey of the antiquities of Wisconsin, upon which 
e has been so long engaged, under the patronage of the American 
Antiquarian Society at Worcester. The manuscript record of his ope- 
rations is illustrated by a large number of quarto illustrations and many 
wood-cut figures — the whole constituting the most important contribu- 
tion to American ethnology made, since the publication of the work by 
Messrs. 8quicr and Davis, on the ancient monuments of the Mississippi 
valley. 

Dr. Adolphus L. Heermann, of Philadelphia, returned last spring from 
several years' residence in California. During his stay he devoted 
especial attention to the subject of ornithology, and with such success 
that his collections far exceed in number and value all others previ- 
ously made in that region. He also procured many specimens of mam- 
mals, reptiles, insects, &c. — the whole furnishing a large amount of 
materials new to science. 

Colonel George A. McCall, of the United States army, during a recent 
tour through Oregon and California, in pursuance of his duties as 
inspector general, embraced the occasion, as in previous instances, to 
secure such zoological specimens as fell in his way. The most inter- 
esting acquisition thus made was that of a new genus of Saurians, 
somew^iat resembling Phnjnosoina in the presence of spines on the head, 
since characterized by Dr. Hailowell under the name of Anota. 

Reference has already been made to the very great additions to our 
knowledge of the geographical range and association of species fur- 
nished by the coUectious and reports of the numerous correspondents of 
the Smithsonian Institution, scattered, as they are, over the entire area 
of the United States. The particular record of their operations will be 
found in the list of additions to the museum of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. 

Mr. William StimpsoUt whose labors have been referred to in a pre- 
vious report, during last summer again visited the rocky shores of 
Grand Manan, where he found a rich harvest. Many new species of 
marine invertebrates were procured, and others added to the American 
fauna, which were previously known only on the coast of Europe or of 
Greenland. Tlie results of his investigations he proposes to present to 
the Smithsonian Institution, in the form of a memoir on the marine in- 
vertebrata of Grand Manan. This gentleman has been selected to 
accompany the expedition of Captain Ringgold, as zoologist, and will, 
doubtless, in connexion with his associate, Mr. Wright, as botanist, be 
the means of greatly extending the domain of natural science. 

Marine Alga. — The publication, by the Smithsonian Institution, of 
Harvey's Marine Algas of North America, has been the means of exciting 
great interest in the study of this attractive department of botany. Nu- 
merous collections have been made during the past summer, by differ- 
ent individuals, embracing many species additional to those described 
by Dr. Harvey. 

Professor C. B. Adams, of Amherst College, having just completed 
his work on the shells of Panama, and desirous of procuring additional 



S. Mis. 53. 65 

facts in rcfrnrd to tlie distrlijution oi" marine animals, visited iho island 
of St. Thomas in December last ; whence, alter spending some time- 
there, he proposes to proceed to the other islands of tl:c same group. 
An appropriation has been made by the Inslitnlion to defray a portion 
of his expenses.* 

Explorathm of Garden Key, Flor'tda. — A ^'ely thorough exploration 
of Garden Kc}'', by Lieut. Wright, rc^sulted in the addition of many 
new and rare species of marine animals. The collections thus made 
were forwarded by him to the Smithsonian Institution, where they 
arrived in perfect order during the past summer. 

9. Foreign States, Societies, and Individuals. 

During the past 3"ear several foreign savans of eminence have visited 
this country for the purpose of commencing explorations or continuing 
those previously begun. Sir Charles Lyell made his third visit to the 
United States, and, as on previous occasions, endeavored to clear up 
certain doulitful points in the geology of this country. Dr. Charles 
Scherzer, of \'icnn;i, and Dr. Moritz Wagner, of Munich, were sent 
out, under the patronage of the A.cademy of Sciences of Vienna, for the 
purpose of instituting inquiries into the social and civil condition, the 
physical geography, and the natural history of North America. In 
pursuance of this object the\' have already visited the region of the 
lakes and of the Mississippi, and are now in New Orleans, preparing 
their reports upon what they have seen. It is their intention, some 
time in 1853, to penetrate into South America, and to pass several 
years in explorations in various unknown parts of the continent. 

Prince Paul, of Wurtemberg, wxU known as an enter})rising trav- 
eller and naturalist, has, lor the present, completed his collections and 
investigations in the United States, and is about starting for Chili, where 
he proposes to continue his labors. His specimens have all been trrms- 
mitted to Eurojie, where they will be elaborated as soon as possible. 

A valuable report has recentl}- been published in Germany upon the 
cfetaceous f()rmation of Texas, and its included fossils. The author, 
Dr. Ferdinand Rcemer, visited this country some years ago with special 
reference to this geological formation, and has presented in the above 
work, in an elaborate f()rm, what was given in less detail in a smaller 
volume issued in 1S49. The determinations of Dr. Rammer are of 
much interest, as constituting nearly all that is known of the geology of 
Texas. 

Very important contriljutions to our knowledge of the Northwest 
have been made by the reports of the voyage of H. B. M. ship the 
Herald. This vessel, during several years' absence in the region of 
Behring's straits, made nunjerous collections in natur;d history, the 
accounts of which are now in course of publication. One of the parts 
already issued consists of a minute account of the remarkable ice clifi's 
of Kotzbuc's sound, and the remains of various species of the elephant, 
ox, deer, musk-ox, &c., im1)edded therein. Another is occupied by 
the botany of Western Esquimaux land. 

* As this Report is passing through the press, the Institution has beard, with deep regret, 
of the death, at St. Thomas, of Professor Adams. 
5 



65 S. Mis. 53. 

APPENDIX B. 

Aljphabetlcal list of donors to the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Academy of Natural Sciences. — Skins of mammalia from Oregon, (in 
exchange.) 

Academy of Sciences, Stockholm. — Collection of skins and skeletons of 
mammals, with reptiles and fishes preserved in alcohol, from Northern 
Europe. 

Agassiz, Prof.L. — Nineteen species of North American Cypr'inodonts. 

Ames, James T., and H. K. Brown. — Statuettes of male and female 
Ottawas and of male Chippewas, modelled by H. K. Brown, and 
oast in bronze by James T. Ames, at Springfield, Massachusetts. 

Baird, S. F. — Fishes and reptiles from Massachusetts and New 
Hampshire. 

Baird, W. M. — Specimens of PmeWws from Reading, Pennsylvania. 

Barker, Dr. S. B. — Fishes and reptiles from Charleston, South 
Carolina. 

Barratt, Dr. J. B. — Reptiles, fishes, &c., from Abbeville, South 
Carolina. 

Bartlett, Joshua. — Shells, &c., from Whitehead, Maine; skin of lump 
fish ; various fishes and crustaceans, in alcohol. 

BecJc, Dr. JVm. B., U. S. N. — Fossil wood from near Fredericksburg, 
Virginia. Infusorial earth from Rappahannock cliffs. 

Bibb, George R. — Fishes and reptiles from Russelville, Kentucky. 

Blunt, Lieut., U. S. N. — Minerals from California. 

Bodcn, Dan. B. — Specimen of Lota from Otsego Lake. 

Bowman, J. Soule. — Reptiles from California, and fishes from the 
Sweetwater branch of the Platte. 

Boyle, Dr. C. C. — Reptiles from California, (dep.) 

Brewer, Miss. — Prepared Algae from the coast of Massachusetts. 

Butterfield, Hon. J. — Three boxes of geological specimens collected 
by Dr. D. Owen in his U. S. surveys. 

Delaware County Institute, through George Smith. — Collection of the 
plants of Delaware county, Pennsylvania. 

Denig, E. T. — Skeleton of female gray wolf, from the Yellowstone 
river. 

Dyer, G. H. — Skin of albatros — Cape Horn. 

Drewsen, Christian. — Eighty species of Greenland shells. 

EaJcins, D. W. — Stone pipe dug up from a depth of thirty-two feet, 
in the Cherokee nation. 

Edwards, Dr., U. 8. A. — Skulls of Indians, buffalo, bighorn, &c. 

Emory, Major W. H. — Skins and skeletons of mammalia, from 
Texas. 

Engelmann, Dr. George. — Suite of plants collected by F. Lindhelmer 
in Texas, and by himself about St. Louis. 

Fairie, James. — Reptiles, insects, stalactites, and a specimen of 
maguey plant, from Orizaba. Collection of reptiles, birds, &c., from 
Morehouse parish, Louisiana. 

Fox, Rev. Charles. — Several very full collections of fishes, reptiles, 
&c., from Grosse Isle, Michiran. 



S. Mis. 53. * 67 

Gilllss, Lieut. J. 3/., U. S. N. — Fossils Irom Caldcra, Chili. 

Girard, C. — Fishes from Maine. 

Guest, W. E. — Two heads of common deer, {Ccrvus Virginianits,) 
skins of cross fox and otler. 

IlojiJiins, Wm. — Collection of fishes from Cayuga lake. 

IIo)j, Dr. F. B. — Fishes and reptiles from Racine, Wisconsin ; skins 
of birds from Wisconsin. 

Jarvls, Dr., U. S. A. — Gold and silver ores from INfexico. 

Keller, J. S. — Geological specim(nis from Schuylkill county, Penn 
S3"lvnnia. 

Kclsoj, W. — Cr>-stallized copper from Cliff mine. Lake Superior. 

Kennedy, Hon. J. P., Sccrctarij of the Navy. — Plants collected around 
the Dead Sea by Captain Lynch, U. S. N. 

Kurtz, Lieut. J. D. — Large collection of recent and fossil shells from 
the coast of Soutii Carolina ; shells and crustaceans, in alcohol and 
dried, from Charleston harbor ; algae from the same locality. 

Lindheimer, F. — Fishes, reptiles, crustaceans, &c., from New Braun- 
fels, Texas. 

Leivis, K. — Stone used by the Lidians in dressing skins, from the 
fork of the Arkansas and Verdigris riveis. 

Marsh, Ho7i. George F. — Collection of shells, seeds, crocodiles' eggs, 
&c., from Egypt. 

Marshall, B. — Tooth of mastodon, found thirty-five miles above the 
mouth of Grand river, near Fort Gibson. 

Maury, Lieut. M. F. — Skin of young manatus, from the Amazon. 

Marcy, Capain B. B., and Caj^itain McClcllan. — Fishes, reptiles, and 
insects, from Red river, Arkansas. 

Noj-wood, Dr. J. G. — Fishes Irom the Wabash river. 

Porter, Professor T. C. — Fishes, &c., from near Mercersburg, Pa. 

Prcscott, Dr. JVm. — Typical specimen of Coregonus novanglice. Lake 
Winnipisiogee. 

Prince, George — Specimen of Chironectcs, Crustacea, and gulf-weed, 
from the Gult Stream. 

Bnfi, Professor C. C., through J. F. JiUson. — Stone axes, arrow-heads, 
&c., from Denmark. 

Badgers, Lieut. John, U. S. N. — Fish caught in sounding-line off 
Cape Florida ; soundings from same locality. 

Bogers, Professor W. B. — Lifusorial earth Irom near Richmond, Vir- 
ginia, and from Barbadoes. 

Buhl, F. — Skeletons of bat, Vesperfilio prninosus; of a fish, Taufoga 
Americana ; skeleton of Coluber and skin of Ilarelda glacialis, from New 
York. 

Saford, Professor J. M. — Fifty species of Unionida', fiom Tennessee. 

Sears, Alfred. — Tusk and tooth of fossil elephant, from diluvium near 
Wheeling ; Lidian remains from a mound near the same locality. 

Shumard, Dr. B. F. — Plants and slu^lls collected in Oregon ; collec- 
tion of reptiles from Mississippi. 

Stanley, J. M. — Porcupine (piills, as colored for maniificturing pur- 
poses, by the Lidians of Arkansas; skin of Felis onca, or, jaguar, and 
of Dicotylcs torepiatus, or peccary, from Texas ; interlocked horns of 
two deer, Ccrvus Virginianus ; horns of ditto in the velvet. 



68 S. Mis. 53. 

StcTcns, Dr. R. P. — Fossil remains, shells, fishes, reptiles, &c., from 
Olean, New York. 

Thomj}so?i, Rev. Zadock. — Specimens of Leuciscus airomaculafvs, and 
cornutus, from Vermont ; Mawhranclius, and various species of fishes, 
from Lake Champlain. 

Tottcn, Lieut. James, U. S. A, — Leaf of Sisal hemp, from Florida. 

Vardc?i, John. — Specimens of coal, from the great London exhibition. 

Wailes, Col. B. L. C. — Recent and fossil shells, from Mississippi ; 
marine fishes, from the coast of Mississippi ; Unionida, and Chelojua, 
from Mississippi. 

Wallington, F. — Nests and eggs of birds, from Garden Key, Florida. 

Wheatland, Dr. H. — Living specimens of Tcstudo tabulata, from Para, 
and ^^ Sca2>hio2ms soUtariys,''^ from Danvers, Massachusetts. 

Wheeler, Dr. S. J. — Amber, from near INIurfreesborough, N. Carolina. 

White, B. A. — Fishes from Oconee river, Georgia. 

Whitney, Samuel. — Native copper and silver, from Lake Superior. 

Williams, Professor L. D. — Specimens of Menoj^ma and Meno- 
hranchns. 

Wormley, Dr. T. G. — Fishes and shells, from the vicinity of Colum- 
bus, Ohio. 

Wright, Lieut. H. G. — Fishes, corals, Crustacea, and shells, from 
Tortugas. 

Wright, _ Charles. — -Skins of birds and lynx, with skull of wolf; fossil 
shells, &c., from near Frontera, Texas. 

Donor unhioicn. — Fossils from INIiddlesex county, Virginia. 
" " Fossil coal plants from near Harrisburg, Pa. 

" " Minerals from Washington count}'', Maryland. 

" " S^^ecimens of Amia, Catostomus, Cltqica, and Coluber 

Alleghaniensis. 



APPENDIX C. 

List of Foreign Institutions to which Volumes III and IV, Smitlisonian 
Contributions to Knowledge, were sent, June, 1S52. 

SWEDEN. 

Lund. — University Library. 

Stockholm. — Kongiiga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien. 

Vitterhets Historic och Antiquitets Akademien. 

Riksbiblioteket. 
Ursula. — University Library. 

Societe Royale des Sciences a Upsal. 

NORAVAY. 



Bergen. — Bergen's Museum. 
Christiania, — The University Library. 



S. Mis. 53. 69 

ICELAXD. 

Reylcjavik. — Islands Stiftisbokasafn. 

DENMARK. 

Cojienhagcn. — Knngeligc Nordiske Oklskrift Sclskab. 

Kongcligc Danske Vitlonskaberncs Selskab. 
Kongelige Bibliothck. 

* 

RUSSIA. 

Dorimt. — Observatoiro Imperiak 

Kasan. — Uuivorsity Libraiy. 

Moscow, — Societe Impcriale des Naturalistcs dc Moscou. 

Si. Pctcrshnrg. — Academic Tmperi;dc dcs Sciences. 

Imperial Pulilic Libnny. 

Administration Im})eria.lc des Mines. 

HOLLAND. 

AmsferJam. — Academic des Sciences. 

Haarlem. — Hollnndsche Maatschappij der Wctenschappen. 

ILigiie. — Royal Li]3rarY. 

Letjden. — University Library. 

MuJdelburg. — Zecuwscbe Genootschap der Wctenschappen. 

Itofterdam. — Bataafsch Genootsch;ip der proetbndervindelijkc Wijsbc- 

geertc. 
ZUrcckt. — Utregtsch Genootscliap van Kunsten en Wctenschappen. 

GERMANY. 

Dcrlisi. — Koniglich-Preussischc Akademic der Wissenschaftcn. 

Konigliche I>il)iioth(dv. 

Konigkches Museum. 

Gesellschidl Naturforschender Frcunde. 
Bonn. — Un iver s ity L ib rary. 
Bremen. — Stadt-liibliothck. 

Breslan and Bonn. — PC. L. C. Aka<lemie der Naturf()rschcr 
Dresden. — Kiaiigliche Bibliothck. 
Erlavgen. — University Library. 

'Frankfurt am Main. — Senckenbergische Naturforschendc Gcsellschaft. 
Freiberg. — KiJniglich-Sachsische BcrgMkademie. 
Freiburg. — University L i br aiy. 
Giessen. — University Library. 
Grcifswald. — University Library. 
Goetiingcn. — Kiaiigliche Gesellschiift der Wisscnschaftcn, 

University Libr;!ry. 
Halle. — University Libriuy. 
Hantbiinr. — Sta dt-Bibliothek. 

O ... 

Uruvcrsit3' Library. 



70 S. Mis. 53. 

Hannover. — Royal Library. 

Heidelberg. — Un i versity L ibrary . 

InnsprucJc. — University Library. 

Jena. — University Library. ^ 

Karlsruhe. — Grossherzogliche Hofbibliothek. , 

Koenigsherg. — University Library. 

Leijpsic. — Stadt-Bibliothek. 

Konigliche Sachsische Gesellschaft. 
Marlurg. — Gesellschaft zur Beforderung der Gesammten Naturwissen- 
schaften. 
University Library. 
Munich. — Koniglich Bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften. 

Konigliche Hof-und Staatsbibliothek. 
Frag. — University Library. 

Konigliche Bohmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. 
Bohmisches Museum. 
Testh. — University Library. 

Ungarische Gelehrte Gesellschaft. 
Stuttgart.: — Konigliche Oeffentliche Bibliothek. 

Verein fur Vaterlandische Naturkunde. 
Tubingen. — University Library. 

Vienna. — K. K. Akademie der Orientalischen Sprachen. 
Kaiserliche Hofbibliothek. 
University Library. 

Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften. 
Wurzburg. — University Library. 

BELGIUM. 

Brnxelles. — x\cademie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux- 
Arts. 

Observatoire Royal. 

City Library. 
Gand. — University Library. 
Liege. — Societe Royale des Sciences. 
Louvain. — Universite Catholique. 

FRANCE. 

Bordeaux. — Academic des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. 

Societe Linneenne. 
Caen. — Academic des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. 

Societe Linneenne de Normandie. 

Societe des Anliquaires de Normandie. 
Dijon. — Academic des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. 
Lille. — Societe des Sciences, de 1' Agriculture et des Arts. 
Mende. — Societe d' Agriculture, Commerce, Sciences, et Arts. 
Lyon. — Societe d'Agriculture, d'Histoire Naturelle, et des Arts Utiles. 

Academic des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. 

Societe Linneenne. 
Metz. — Academic Nationale. * 

Montpcllicr. — Societe Archeologique. 



S. Mis. 53. 71 

Orleans. — Soci^te des Sciences, Bellcs-Lettrcs et Arts. 
Far is. — L'Institut dc France. 

Societe des Anliquaires. 
" Asiatique. 
" dc Geographic. 
•' (jcologique de France. 
" IMiiloinatique. 
Bibliotheque Nationals 
Bibli()the([ue dti Jardin des Plantes. 
L'Ecole des Mines. 
Societe Ethnologique. 
Bibliotheque de Iti Ville de Paris. 
Societe Nationale et Centrale d' Agriculture. 
Ministere de la Marine. 
Strasbourg. — Societe des Sciences, Agriculture, et Arts, du bas Rhia. 

Academic des Sciences Naturelles. 
Toulouse. — Academic des Sciences, Inscriptions, et Belles-Lettres. 

SWITZERLAND. 

Basel. — Naturforschende G esellscliaft. 

Antiquarische Gesellschaft. 
Bern. — Schweizerische Gesellschaft fur die Gesammten Naturwissen- 
schaften. 
Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 
Geneve. — Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturclle. 

City Library. 
Neuchatd. — Societe des Sciences Naturelles. 
Zurich. — Naturtbrsch(?nde Gesellschaft. 

Gesellschaft fiir Vaterliindische Alterthiimer in Zurich. 

ITALY. 

Bologna. — Istituto dcUe Scienze ed Arti Liberali. 

Catania. — Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Natural!. 

Florence. — Biblioteca Magliabecchiana. 

Lticca. — Reale Accademia Lucchese di Scienze, Letlere ed Arti. 

Milan. — Bi blioteca Brera. 

Imperiale Regio Istituto Lombardo di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. 
Modena. — Societa Italiana delle Scienz,e. 
Naples. — Reale Accademia delle Scienze, c Belle Lettere. 
Fad'ua. — Imperinle Regia Academia di Scienze, Lettere cd Arti. 
Fisa. — University Lil)rary. 
Falermo. — Royid Ac;ideniy of Sciences. 
Home. — Accademia Romana di Archeologia. 
Biblioteca Vaticana. 
Accademia Pontifica dei Nuovi Lincci. 
Turin. — Accndcmia Reale delle Scitnize. 
Venice. — B iblioteca Marciana. 
• 



72- S. Mis. 53. 

PORTUGAL. 

Lisbon. — Academia Real dos Sciencias. 

SPAIN. 

Madrid. — Real Academia Espanola. 

" " de la Hisloria. 

Academia Real de Ciencias. 
Biblioteca Real. 

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. 

Bdfast. — Natural History and Philosophical Society. 
Cambridge. — Cambridge Philosophical Societ3% 
University Library. 
Observatory. 
Penzance. — Royal Geological Societ}^ of Cornwall. 
Duhlin.-^'RoydX Irish Academj'. 

Library of Trinity College. 
Edinhurg. — Royal Society. 

Royal Scottish Societ}^ of Arts. 
Royal Obsei'vatory. 
Advocates' Library. 
Society of Antiquaries of Scotland. 
University Library. 
Wernerian Society of Natural Histor}'. 
Glasgow. — University Library. 
Gnoiwich. — Royal Observatory. 
London. — Royal Society. 

" Astronomical Society. 
" Asiatic Society. 
" Geographical Society. 
" Institution. 
Society of Antiquaries. 
Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and 

Commerce. 
Linnean Society. 
Geological Society. 
Institution of Civil Engineers. 
Zoological Society. 
Entomological Society. 
Statistical Society. 
Microscopical Society. 
^*7 Ethnological Society. 

British Archaeological Association. 

British Museum. 

Library of the House of Commons. 

Horticultural Society. ^ 

Chemical Society. 

Archaeological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland. 



S. Mis. 53. 73 

Board of Admirnlly. 

Librnry of the Hon. the- East India Company. 

Iioval Colleo:o oi" Surgeons. 

British Association. 

Athenaeum Clul). 

Philological Society. 

Mnseum of Practical Gcolooy. 

London Library. 
Leeds. — Philosophical and Literary Society. 
JJrcrjuxil. — Free Public Library. 
Ma/ic/t's!c): — Literary and Philosophical Society. 

Free Library and Museum. 
Oxford. — Bodleian Liiirary. 

liadclifre Obscrvator}^ 
St. AnJrcirs. — University Library. 

GREECE. 

Athens. — University Library. 

TURKEY. 

Constanthioj^lc. — Librar}' of the Sultan. 

AFRICA, 

Grand Cd'tro. — The Egyptian Society. 
Liberia. — Government Library. 

ASIA. 

Alleilieilad. — Mission College. 

Bataria. — Bataviaasche Genootschap van Konstcn en Welcnschappcii 
Bombay. — Royal Asiatic Society. 
G eogra pi i ic al Societ}'. 
Calcutta. — Asiatic Societ}^ 
Ceylon. — Asiatic Society. 
Ihng Kong. — x\siatic Societ}' of China. 
Madras. — Literary Society. 
Manilla. — Poyid Economical Society of the Philippine Islands. 

WEST INDIES AND SOL'TII AMERICA. 



Bogota. — Sociedad Economica dc Amigos del Pais. 
Caracas. — Sociedad Economica de Amigos del l*ais. 
Ilabana. — li(>al Sociedad ]Oconomica. 
Rio .Janeiro. — Imperial liraxilian Histf)rical Societ}^ 
Chili. — Government Library. 

University Library. 
Mexico. — Sociedad JMcxicana de Gcografia j Estadistica. 



74 S. Mis. 53. 

REPORT OF THE GENERAL ASSISTANT, IN CHARGE OF 
THE METEOROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE. 



To Joseph Henry, LL. D., 

Secretary of the Sraithsonian Institution : 

Sir : I herewith submit to you a report, showing the condition of the 
meteorological correspondence of the Institution during the year 1S52. 

With but few exceptions, there have been received regular monthly 
returns of observations from all the stations previously reported, and it is 
gratifying to find that the system has been extended by the addition of 
several stations. The new observers reside chiefly in the western and 
southern States — districts of country from which meteorological inform- 
ation was much needed. The spirit manifested by the corps of observ- 
ers has also improved ; as is manifest from the registers being care- 
fully kept, and the desire of all who have but few instruments to supply 
themselves in this respect, and at their own cost. It is to be regretted 
that the limited means at the disposal of the Institution for this ol^ject, 
and the many demands upon it for other purposes, render it inexpe- 
dient, at present, to aid observers in the purchase of instruments. 

Soon after the occurrence of an earthquake in the central part of the 
United States, on the 29th of April, 1852, a circular was issued by the 
Secretary, requesting a report of any observations which had been 
made or could be gathered relative to that event. Numerous replies 
have been received, embodying facts sufficient to enable the Institution 
to mark the point of chief intensity, and trace out the diverging lines 
along which the earth-wave passed. 

Another circular has been sent out during the year, requesting 
persons having in their possession any meteorological registers for 
series of years previous to the files of the Institution, which com- 
menced early in 1849, to transmit them for reduction. A large amount 
of valuable information from various parts of this country has by this 
means been obtained. As this collection is still in progress, a report 
of its results is at this time withheld. The instruments belonging to the 
Institution, and deposited with observers, remain as before reported. 

In addition to the necessary blank forms and directions for registra- 
tion of the weather, the aurora, periodical phenomena of plants, and 
the circulars for special observations just referred to, there have been 
distributed to observers a copy of the following works, viz : Sixth "An- 
nual Report of the Smithsonian Institution;" Espy's "Report on Meteor- 
ology;" "Meteorological Report of the Surgeon General of the U. S. A.," 
a sufficient number of copies having been kindly placed at the disposal 
of the Institution by the Surgeon General for this purpose ; " Directions 
for making collections in Natural History;" "Patent Office Report, 
1850 ; " part 2d of " Guyot's Meteorological Tables ; " and other smaller 
pubhcations, not necessary to be enumerated. 

I am, very respectflilly, your obedient servant, 

E. FOREMAN, 
General Assistant Smithsonian Institution, 



S. Mis. 53. 



75 



List of persons from trhom Meteorological Ohserval'ions have hern received at 
the Smithsonian Institution during the year 1S52. 



State. 


Name. 


Eesidence. 


Maine 


Rev. Samuel H.^^crrill.. 

George B. Barrows 

James G. Garland 

Rufus Buck 


Oldtown. 

Fryeburg. 

Biddeibrd. 

fjucksport. 

Windham. 




8. A. Eveleth 




Joshua Bartlett 

J. D. Parker 


Whitehead. 
Steuben. 




Christoplier Prince 

John J. Bell 


Thomnstcn. 
Cannel. 


New Hampshire — 
Vermont.. 


Dr. William Prcscott 

Robert C. Mack 

Rev. Levi W. Leonard. . 
Samuel N. Bell 

Rev. Zndock Thompson . . 

Prof. W. H. Parker 

Lewis M. Da}' ton 

D. Underwood 


Concord. 
Londonderry. 
Dublin. 
Manchester. 

Burlington. 




Middleburg. 

Castleton. 

Castleton. 


Massachusett.s 


David Buckland 

.lacol) Batchelder 

Samuel F. Haven 

William Bacon 

Amasa Holcomb 

Henry liice 


Brandon. 

Lynn. 
Worcester. 
Pichmond. 
Southwick. 
North Attlcboro'. 


Rhode Island 

Connecticut 

Nfw York 


C. M. Freeman 

Benjamin R. Giff()rd 

Prof. A. Caswell 

Rev. T. L. Edward.s 

Prof. Aug. W. Smith 

P. A. Chadbourne 

L. F. Muno'cr 


Williamstown. 
Barnstable. 

Providence. 

New London. 
Middletown. 
East Windsor Hill. 

Albion. 




C. F. Maurice. 


Sing Sing. 




K. A. Dayton 


Madrid. 




Dr. Frankhn B. Hoiigh. . 
John Bowm ni 


Somorville. 
BaldwJnsville. 




Walter D. Yale 

J. E Breed 


Houseville. 
Smiihville. 




Epliraim N. llyram 

John Lellerts ....... .•• 


Sag Harbor. 
Lodi. 









76 



S. Mis. 53. 

LIST— Continued. 



State. 


Name. 


Residence. 


Ne w York 


John P. Fairchild 

Charles A. Avery 

John F. Jenkins 

Albert Hosmer 


Seneca Falls. 
Seneca Falls. 
Salem Centre. 
Fort Porter. 




J. M. Hart 


Oswego. 




IMandrin Linus 

Jnmes B. Trevor. - 

William E. Guest 

Henry L. Dinsmore 

Thomas B. Arden 

L.L. Fairchild 


Sackett's Harbor. 

Lockport. 

Ogdensburg. 

Syracuse. 

Phillipstown. 

Constableville. 


New Jersey 


Dr. P. 0. Williams 

Prof. A. D. Frost 

R. L.Cooke 


Gouverneur. 

Burlintjton. 
Bloomtield. 


Pennsylvania 


W. A. Whitehead 

W. 0. Blodget. 


Newark. 
Sugar Grove. 




Prof. M. Jacobs 

Joseph Edwards "^ 

J. L. Miller 5 

Rev. J. G. Ralston 

John Jackson 


Gettysburg. 

Lima. 

Norristown. 
Darby. 
Freeport. 
Indiana. 




Andrew Roulston 

D avid Peelor „ , . 




Corydon Marks 

Dr. R. P. Stevens ., 

Dr. Paul Swift 


Manchester. 
Ceres. 

Philadelphia. 
Morrisville. 

Nazareth. 

Harrisburo". 




Ebenezer Hance .... 

E. T. Klugcr ) 

E. Kummer > 

Dr. J. Heiselv 




Orrin T. Hobbs 


Randolph. 
Honesdale. 




M. H. Cobb 




Dr. Henry Smj^ser 

W.W.Wilson 

Jolvjf Comly 


Pittsburg. 
Pittsburg. 
Byberrv. 
Kingsley's P. 0. 
Philadelphia. 
Somerset. 
Philadelphia. 
Summit Hill. 




Francis Schriener 

Prof. J. A. Kirkpatrick. . 
Rev. David J. E^der .... 

J. Fisher Coorlies 

M.Abbott 




Thomas Scabrook 

Samuel Brown 

Barnet McElroy 


Summitville. 

Bedford. 

Clarksburg. 



S. Mis. 53. 

LIST — Continued. 



77 



State. 


Name. 


liesidence. 


Delaware 


Prof. E. D-Porlcr 


Newark. 


Maryland 


Dr. William Baer 


Sykesville. 




Dr. Lewis F. Steiner. 


Baltimore. 




Henry E. Ilanshew 


Frederick. 




Lewis J. Bell 


Leitersburg. 




Rev. John P. Carter. 


Hagerstown. 




Prof. J.P.Nelson 


New Windsor. 


DiST. OF Columbia. 


Smithsonian Listitation. . 


Washington. 


Virginia 


Dr. F.J. Mettnncr 


PrinceEdwardC.il 




William Skeen 


Huntersville. 




Lieut. R. F. Astrop 


Cnchton's Store. 




Charles INIeriwether 


Cobham. 




Dr. William N.Patton... 


Lewisburg. 




David Turner 


Richmond. 




Dr. A. M. Grinnan 


3Iadison. 




Prof. G. R. Rosseter 


liuffido. 




L. C. Breekenstein 


Middlesex. 




Jed. Llotehkiss 


]>ri(lgcwater. 




J. W. JNIarvin 


Winchester. 




N. B. Webst(>r 


Portsmouth. 




Marshall McDonald 


Romney. 


North Carolina. . . 


Prof. James Phillips . 


Chapel Hill. 




Rev. .3. A. She})lierd. . . . 


L. Scuppernong. 




Rev. Fred. Fitzgerald;. . 


Jackson. 


South Carolina 


H. W. Ravenel 


St. John's, Berkclv. 




Thornton Carpenter 


Camden. 


Georgia 


Richard T. Gibson 

Dr. George F. Cooper. . . 


Whitemarsh Island. 




I'erry. 




Dr. E. M. Pendleton 


Sparta. 




Dr. John F. Posey 


Savannah. 




P.C.Pendleton 


Powellton. 




Prof. J.E.Willet 


J>cnfiekl. 




John Darby 


Culloden. 


Alabama . . . 


S. J. Gumming 


Monroeville. 


X A.Xi ^CX JJ XXXVX ^X a««««i. ■■> 


Alexander Winchell 


Eutaw. 




Dr. T.C.Osborne 


Erie. 



78 



S. Mis. 53. 

LIST — Continued. 



State. 


Name. 


Eesidence. 


Florida . ...... 


John Newton 


Knox Hill. 




John Pearson, U. S. N 

Judge Aug. Steele 

W. S. Bogart 


Pensacola. 
Atseena Otee. 
Tallahassee. 


Mississippi 


A. L. Hatch 


Vicksbure'. 


LoUESIANA. 


Thomas Oakley 

Dr. E. H. Barton... 

J. H. Browne. 


Jackson. 
New Orleans. 


Texas 


Huntsville. 


Tennessee 

Kentucky 


Pres'tT.C.Ervendberg.. 
Dr. Samuel K. Jennings. 

Prof. A. P. Stewart 

Prof. W. M. Stewart . . . 
Pteuben Harris, U. S. N. 

Prof O. W. Morris 

Thomas L. Sawyer 

John E. Yoanglove 

Lawrence Young 

F. C. Herrick 


New Wied. 
Austin. 

Lebanon. 
Clarksville. 
Memphis. 
Knoxville. 
Dixon's Springs. 

Bowhng Green. 
Springdale. 
Bowlino" Green. 




L. Berthoud 


Maysville. 
Oberlin. 


Ohio ...... 


Prof G. N. Allen 

Dr. E. C. Bidwell 

George L. Crookham. 

S. N. Sanford 

Edward Wade 




Keene. 
Jackson. 
Granville. 
Cleveland. 




Rev. J. D. McMatthews. . 

Theo. G. Wormiey 

F. A. Benton 


Hillsborough. 

Columbus. 

Mansfield. 




Prof J. W. Andrews 

Thomas F. Withrow 

L. Groneweg 


Marietta. 

Homer. 

Germantown. 


Michigan ...•.■■•• 


Prof.J.R.W. Sloane 

Rev. George Duffield 

Dr. W. M. Campbell 

Thomas \Vhelpley 

Dr. H. R. Schetterley... 
Charles Betts 


Northwood. 
Detroit. 




Battle Creek. 

Monroe. 

Howell & Ann Arbor. 

Burr Oak. 




Elmore Wainright 

L. Woodruff". 


Clinton. 
Ann Arbor. 




Dr. xM. K. Taylor 


Brooklyn. 



S. Mis. 53. 

LIST — Continued. 



79 



State. 


Name. 


Eesidence. 


LvDIANA 


W. W. Austin 

John Cliappellsmith 

Prof. J. Tingley 


Richmond. 




New Harmony. 
Greeneastle. 


Iltinois 


Prof. P. P. Brown 

Dr. S. B. Mead 

Prof. Joel Hall 


Upper Alton. 

Hancock. 

Athens. 




Dr. J. 0. Harris 

Dr. J. B. N. Klinger. . . . 


Ottowa. 
Plymouth. 


Iowa 


T. S. Parvin 


Muscatine. 




Ida E. Ball 


Keokuk. 




Daniel McC ready 

Dr. Asa Horr 


Foil Madison. 
Dubuque. 

Milwaukee. 
Kenosha. 
Emerald Grove. 
Beloit. 
Baraboo. 


Wlsconsix 


J. A. Lapliani 

Rev. John Gridley 

Orrin Densmore 

Prof. S. P. Lathrop 

Dr. B.F.Mills 




James C. Bray ton 

Thomas (^ny 


Aztnlan. 
Belle Fontaine. 




C . F . I*on:ieroy 


Gi'cen Lake. 




Prof. .L L. Pickard 

William Avres 


Platleville. 
Watertown. 




Edward Speneer 


Summit. 


Minnesota Ter 


Samuel Spates 

Charles Cavileer 

Alonzo Barnard 

Rev. Stephen R. Riggs. . 


Sandy Lake. 
Pembina. 
Cass Lake. 
Lac-qui-Parle. 


L\DiAN Territories. 


Prof. A. G. IMoffatt 


Armstrong Acad'y* 


Oregon 


George A. Atkinson 


Oregon City. 


British Possessions 


Capt.J.H. Lefroy 

Dr. Chns. Smallwootl. . . 
Henrv l*oole 


Toronto, Canada W. 
St. Martin's, " 
I'ictou, Nova Scotia. 




Capt. Alexander, R.E... 


Bermuda. 



80 



S. Mis. 53. 



JList of iiersons from whom have hccn received registers of periodical phe- 
nomena observed during the year 1S52. 



State. 



Name. 



Eesidence. 



Maine 

New Hampshire 

Massachusetts 

Connecticut . . 

New York 



New Jersey. 



Pennsylvania . 



Maryland 
Virginia . . 



J. D. Parker 

Dr. Joseph L. Stevens. 

S.N.Bell , 

Robert C. Mack 



AVilliam Bacon. 
Henry Rice 



Prof. John Johnston. 



W. E. Guest 

Dr. Joseph Bates. 
John F. Jenkins. . 
Cornelius Chase . 

John Bratt 

L. L. Fairchild . . 
John Bowman. . . 

E. N. Byram 

W. C. Belcher. . . 



Rev. Prof. A.Frost. 
W. A. Whitehead. . 



J. R. Lowrie 

David Peelor 

Prof. T.C.Porter... 

John Jackson 

Dr. R. P. Stevens . . . 
Prof J. H. Coffin.... 

Prof M. Jacobs 

John Evans 

Dr. George Smith 

J. S.Keller 

Prof L. D. Williams. 

John C. Heyscr 

IMiss Harriet M. Baer 



. JedediahHotchkiss. 

N. B. Webster 

R. F. Astrop 

Dr. John R. Purdie. 
Pr. A. G, Grinnaa, . 



Steuben. 
Castine. 

Manchester. 
Londonderry. 

Richmond. 
N. Attleboro'. 

Middletown. 

Oodensburc;. 
Lebanon Springs. 
North Salem. 
Chatham, Colum. co^ 
West Point. 
Constableville. 
Baldwinsville. 
Sag Harbor. 
Plattsburg. 

Burlington. 
Newark. 

Hollidaysburg. 

Indiana. 

INIercersburg. 

Darby. 

Ceres. 

Easton. 

Gettysburg. 

Radnor. 

Upper Darby. 

Orwigsburg. 

Meadville. 

Hagerstown. 

Sykesville. 

INIossy Creek. 
Portsmouth. 
Genito. 
Smithfieid. 
Madison C. H. 



S. Mis. 53. 

LIST — Continued. 



81 



State. 


Name. 


Residence. 


South Carolina . . . 
Alabama 


Dr. J. A. Young 

Alexander Winchell . 

Benjamin F. Holly 

T. C. Ervendberg 

John Lea, 


Camden. 
E utaw. 


Texas 


Weoka villa. 
New VVied. 


Ohio 


Cincinnnti. 




Robert Shields 


Belle Centre. 




L. Grone\ve<T .......... 


Germantown. 


MiCHIGAX 


Miss P. D. Childs 

L. Woodruff 


Keene. 
Ann Arbor. 


Missouri 


Dr. Dennis Cooley 

Prof. John M. Ordway.. 
Daniel McCready 


Washington, Ma- 
comb CO. 

Trenton, Grundy co. 

Fort Madison. 


Iowa 







List of yersons, and stations, furnishing meteorological ohservations to the 
llegents of the University of the State of New York. 



Names. 



Stations. 



J. L.Peet 

Dr. Horace Webster 

Rev. Dr. Strong 

F. II. Wines 

Professor T. Cook. . 
John I). Watkins... 

M. G. McKoon 

Charles G. Hazeltine 

J. O. Slratton 

Professor O. Root . . 
Judge E. C. Reed. . 

F. B. Downes 

Dr. M. M. Bugg 

Daniel Gillet 

W. C. Kenyon 

E. A. Dickinson. , . ., 
6 



Deaf and Dumb Institute, N. Y. 

Free Academy, New York. 

Erasmus Hall, Flatbush, L. I. 

East Hampton, Long Island. 

All)any. 

Lil)crty, Sullivan county. 

Delhi, Delaware county. 

Cherry Valley. 

Oxford, Chenango county. 

Hamilton College, Clinton. 

Homer, Cortland county. 

Ithaca, Tompkins county. 

Utica. 

Elmira. 

Alfred Academy, Alleghany co. 

Jamestown. 



82 



S. Mh. 53. 

LIST— Continued. 



Karnes. 


Stations. 


M. H. Christian 


Fredonia. 


Charles Winne 


Buffalo. 


Rev. Dr. C. Dewey 


Rochester. 


Ilev. B. Hale 


Geneva College, Ontario county. 

Syracuse. 

Mexico, Oswego county. 

Plattsburg. 


Lyman W. Conkey 


W. H. Gillespie 


Joseph W. Taylor 


J. F. Jenkins 


Salem Centre. 


W. E. Guest 


Ogdensburg, 


Hon. Nathaniel Jones 


Newburir. 




o 



List of , the iicrsons and stations of the meteorological system of the State 

of Massachusetts. 



Names. 



Stations. 



Prof. E. S. Snell 

Prof. Albert Hopkins . 

Henry Rice 

Richard Edwards 

Rev. David Rowe 

Dr. C. H. Perkins 

Joshua Davis 

Hon. WiUiam Mitchell 
Dr. Edward Smith . . . 
Hon. John Brooks. . . . 

Moses Waite 

W.H.Tyler 



Amherst College. 

Williams College. 

North Attleboro'. 

Bridgewater. 

Westheld. 

New bury port. 

Truro. 

Nantucket. 

Worcester. 

Princeton. 

Bernardston. 

Pittsfield. 



S. Mis. 53. 



83 



Meteorological returns from the folloirinor army posts, received at the oflcc 
of the burgeon Geiieral U. S. Armij, for the use (f xohich the Institution 
is indebted to Thomas Laivson, M. 1)., Surgeon General U. S. Army. 



Watervleit Arsenal. 


Mount Vernon Arsenal. 


Fort Ontario. 


Oglethorpe Barracks. 


Fort Constitution. 


Key West. 


Fort Mifflin. 


Fort Scott. 


Madison Barracks. 


St. Louis. 


Fort Preble. 


Fort Leavenworth. 


Fort Sullivnn. 


Fort Kearny. 


Fort Columbus. 


Fort ^Martin Scott. 


Fort Hamilton. 


Fort Gates, 


Allegheny Arsenal. 


Fort Mcintosh. 


West Point. 


San Antonio. 


Fort Trumbull. 


Fort Croghan. 


Fort Niagara. 


Fort Washita. 


Fort Adams. 


San Diego. 


Carlisle Barracks. 


Fort Smith. 


Plattsburg Barracks. 


Jefferson Barracks. 


Fort McHenry. 


Fort Brady. 


Fort Monroe. 


Fort Lincoln. 



Fort Moultrie. 


Fort Duncan. 


Detroit. 


Ringgold Barracks 


Fort Mackinaw. 


Fort Brown. 


Fort Howard. 


Fort Towson. 


Fort Gratiot. 


Fort Gibson. 


Fort Gaines. 


New Orleans. 


Newport Barracks. 





84 S. Mis. 53. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 



The Executive Committee submit to the Board of Regents the 
following report relative to the present state of the finances and the 
expenditures during the year 1852 : 

They are happy to inform the Board that, after a strict examination 
of the accounts, they are enabled to present a very satisfactory state- 
ment of the present condition of the finances, and the result of the 
investigations as to the expenditures during the year. 

The whole amount of the Smithsonian bequest deposited 
in the treasury of the United States (from which an 
annual income at 6 per cent, interest is derived, of 
$30,910) is $515,169 00 

There is now on hand, of unexpended interest, 

in charge of Messrs. Corcoran & Riggs $208,800 

Of this sum it is proposed to expend on the 

building 58,800 

Which will leave to be added to the principal, 
according to the original proposition of Prof. 
Bache 150,000 00 

The whole fund will then be 665,169 00 



The following is a general view of the receipts and expenditures 
during the past year : 

Receipts. 

From the income of the original fund $30,910 14 

From interest on the extra fund 9,129 20 

Balance in the hands of the treasurer at the beginning of 

theyearl852 7,296 76 

47,336 10 

Expenditures. 

For the building .---.--- ^14,047 07 

For items common to the general objects of the Institution . ] 1,505 80 

For publications, researches, and lectures 12,224 48 

For library, museum, and gallery of art 9,308 26 

Balance in the treasury 250 49 

47,336 10 



The following is a more detailed statement pf the expenditures : 



S. Mis. 53. 



85 



Statement in relation to the Expenditures of the Smithsonian Institution 
during the year 1852. 



Building, Furniture, Fixtures, and Grounds. 



Pay on contracts 

Pay of architects, superintendents, &c. 

Expenses of Buililing Committee 

Miscellaneous incidental to building 

Furniture, «fcc., for uses in common 

Do. for library 

Do. for museum 

Grounds 



General Expenses. 



Expenses of Board of Regents, &c. 

Lighting and heating 

Postage 

Trjimsportatiou 

Stationery 

General printing 

Apparatus 

Incidentals, general 

Salaries, general 



Publications, Researches, and Lectures. 



Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. 

Eeports on progress of knowledge 

Other publications 

Meteorology " 

Investigations 

Pay of lecturers 

Illustrations and apparatus for lectures. .. 
Attendance and lighting, lectures, &c 



Library, Museum, and Gallery of Art. 



Cost of books 

General catalogue 

Copyrights 

Stereotyping 

Incidentals to library 

Salaries, library 

Expenses of collections, museum. 

Incidentals, museum 

Salaries, museum 



Total expended in 18.j2 



$10,000 00 


1,839 83 


7 50 


1,198 ()4 


GH2 !)4 


2G5 15 


3 56 


49 45 


267 18 


399 70 


472 07 


1,827 91 


222 38 


350 42 


844 88 


2,821 34 


4, 299 92 


5, 736 74 


1,616 75 


1,007 86 


2, 079 88 


75 00 


1,385 00 


230 13 


93 12 


1,098 77 


377 25 


52 00 


1,305 28 


1,196 48 


2,499 96 


215 57 


563 01 


1,999 94 



$14,047 07 



11,505 80 



12,224 48 



9, 308 26 
47, 085 61 



A general account of the operations of the Institution is given in the 
report of the Secretary, to which the Board are referred. The com- 
mittee are liappy to be able again to assure the Board, thnt in their 
opinion the operations arc such as to carry out in the most effectual 
manner the wise and benevolent design of James Smilhson, viz: that 
of ^^ increasinor and diffusing knowledge among men." The only regret 
wliich can be entertained with regard to the present condition of the 
Institution is, that the funds are so encumbered with thp restrictions 



86 S. Mis. 53. 

imposed upon them by the original charter, that more of the income 
cannot be devoted to the publications and other active operations. 
Respectfully submitted : 

J. ALFRED PEARCE, ^ 

J. G. TOTTEN, > Executive Committee. 

A. D, BACHE, ) 



S. Mis. 53. 87 



REPORT OF THP: BUILDING COMMITTEE. 



The Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution presents the 
following report of its operations during the past year : 

The contract between the Board of Regents and (j'ilhert Cinneron 
has been declared completed, by Mr. Renwiek, It includes the finish- 
irtg of the exterior of the entire building, the interior of the extreme 
wings and connecting ranges, and the interior ol" the towers, leaving 
the whole interior of the main building to be fmisluMl. 'J'his comprises 
a space of two hundred feet long by fifty wide, and about sixty high, 
to be divided into a basement and two stories. 

Mr. Renwiek has presented to the Board his final decision as to the 
state of accounts between the Regents and ihe contractor. According 
to thi&, there is due to the latter the sum of $11,G07 24. 

By a resolution of the Board, all the wood -work nnd framing which 
now occupies the interior of the main building is to be removed, and 
its place supplied by fire-proof materials. In accordance with the 
direction of the Regents, the committee have procured phms and esti- 
mates of the proposed work, whicli are herewith submitted fi)r the 
consideration ol the Regents. These plans differ in some respects 
fifom the orio-inal design of the main buildin";, and the changes are 
such as materially to improve the edifice, rendering it more stable and 
better adapted to the purposes of the Institution, Should the plans 
presented be adopted, the committee would advise that the new work 
be commenced as soon as the preliminary arrangements can be made, 
and prosecuted as rapidly as the funds will allow. The expc^rience or 
last year has shown that, beyond a certain degree, the extension of the 
time of completing the buildmg does not tend to improve the condition 
of the funds. The cost of superint(aidence is in proportion to the time, 
and not to the work done; and a mcjre advantageous arrangement can 
be made for finishing the remainder of the building at once than by 
doing it in detached portions, unless the whole work be stopped for 
some years. The present condition of the building would scarcely 
warrant this measure. 

Mr. Renwiek, in a letter to the R(>gents, signified his intention oi 
declining further services to the Institution unless his account for full 
salary was paid by a specified time. The Board of Regents, consid- 
ering themselves unauthorized to continue his large salary for an 
indefinite length of time alter the end of the five years, which limited 
the duration of the original contract, passed a resolution that his claim 
should be paid, provided he would report as to the state of the account 
between the Board and the contractor previous to the discontinuance 
of his services. Mr. Renwiek agreed to this proposition, and in ac- 
cordance with it has presented his final n^port to the Begents. 

After Mr. Renwiek left the charge of the building the committee 
employed Captain B. S. Alexander, of the U. S. corps of Engineers, to 
prepare detailed drawings and plans for rendering the remainder of 



88 S. Mis. 53. 

the building entirely fire-proof. This gentleman is now engaged as 
superintendent in the erection of the military and naval asylum for the 
District of Columbia, and is highly recommended to the committee by 
the officers of the army and navy, as well as by the fact that so im- 
portant a work has been intrusted to his superintendence. 

Should the plans which are herewith submitted to the Board be 
adopted, the committee would recommend that Captain Alexander be 
appointed, with the consent of the superior of his corps, to superintend 
the completion of the building. As he is an officer of the army, on 
duty in this city, he will be enabled to give daily attention to the work 
at a comparatively small expense. 

GRAHAM N. FITCH, ^ 

RICHARD RUSH, I r w?- r •« 

JOHN W. MAURY, >^"^^^^"^ Comm.Wee. 

JOSEPH HENRY, 



S. Mis. 53. 89 



PROCEEDINGS 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



SIXTH ANNUAL SESSION OF THE BOARD OP REGENTS. 
[Continued from last Report.] 

Washington, June 5, 1852. 
The Board of Regents was notified to meet this day at 11 o'clock 
A quorum not being present, the Board adjourned to August 7, 1852. 



Washington, August 7, 1852. 

The Board of Regents met this evening at 7 J o'clock. Present: 
Messrs. Colcock, Fitch, Pearce, and Totten. 

Mr. Maury, elected Mayor of Washington, and therefore ex officio 
Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, appeared and took his seat. 

In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Pearce took the chair. 

Mr. Fitch, from the Building Committee, presented to the Board a 
letter from James Renwick, jr., architect, informing the committee 
that the building, so far as it was embraced in the contract of Mr. Cam- 
eron, was completed, and recommending that six thousand dollars be 
advanced to the contractor from the fifteen per cent, kept back, in 
advance of Mr. Renwick' s final certificate ; also stating that it would 
take several days for him to make up his final award. 

Mr. Fitch stated to the Board that there was now a suit pending 
between Mr. Cameron and his sub-contractor ; and that though the 
Institution had no interest in this suit, the Regents had been informed 
that they were a party to the same. The Building Committee, there- 
fore, thought it advisable to refer this subject to the Board. 

In order to obtain further information on this point, it was, on mo- 
tion, resolved to postpone the consideration until next meeting. 

Mr. Fitch, from the Building Committee, also presented an account 
from Mr. Renwick for services from March 1 to June 1, 1852 ; which 
the committee did not feel themselves authorized to pay without an 
order from the Board. 

Mr. Fitch also presented, from the same committee, a communica- 
tion from INIr. Renwick to the B(jard, relative to his compensation, in- 
cluding another account fbr services to August 1, 1852. 



90 S Mis. 53. 

Mr. Fitch presented a resolution relative to the payment of the ac- 
counts of Mr. Renwick, the consideration of which was postponed to 
the next meeting. 

The Board then adjourned to Monday evening, August 9, at 7^ 
o'clock. 



Washington, Augiist. 9, 1852. 

The Board of Regents met this evening at 7 J o'clock. Present : 
Messrs. Colcock, Mason, Maur}^ Pearce, and Totten, of the Board, and 
Mr. Seaton, treasurer; and, by invitation, Mr. Lenox, late Mayor of 
Washington. 

In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Pearce took the chair. 

The proposition to advance Mr. Cameron six thousand dollars from 
the fifteen per cent, retained by the Board was brought up for consid- 
eration, and after a full discussion ol the same, the following resolution, 
offered by Mr. Mason, was adopted : 

Resolved, That the Building Committee be requested to settle the 
accounts of Mr. Cameron, pursuant to his contract, and that any bal- 
ance that may be found due be paid him, unless, in the discretion of 
the committee, under advice of counsel, it may be deemed prudent by 
them to pay the money into court, in the pending suit to which the 
Institution is a party, or to withhold it until further order of the Board. 

The resolution offered by Mr. Fitch at the last meeting, relative to 
the accounts of Mr. Renwick, was taken up ; and after being modified 
by General Totten, was adopted, as follows : 

Resolved, That Mr. Renwick, having reported by letter to the Building 
Committee that the Smithsonian building is completed, be notified that 
his services as architect are no longer required by the Regents of this 
Institution, and that the bills he has presented for his services up to the 
first of August, 1852, will be paid as soon as he shall have rendered to 
the Regents his final certificate of the completion of the building, ac- 
cording to the terms of the contract with Dixon and Cameron, as mod- 
ified on the 3d July, 1850 ; and if the building be not completed, the 
said bills shall be paid upon the rendition of his certificate showing the 
extent to which it is completed, and the particulars in which it is unfin- 
ished ; together with any plans of the building, or papers, belonging to 
the Institution, which may be in his possession. 

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to pay said bills, in ac- 
cordance with the foregoing resolution. 

The Secretary stated that the expiration of the term of service of 
Mr. Lenox as a Regent, has caused a vacancy in the Building Com- 
mittee. 

The Chair nominated Mr. Maury to fill the vacancy ; and, on mo- 
tion, the nomination was confirmed. 

The following resolution, offered by Mr. Totten, was adopted : 

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution 
have heard with deep regret the death of Mr. Andrew J. Downing, 
late superintendent of the grounds of the Institution. 

Resolved, That we entertain a grateful sense of the value of Mr. 
Downing's services in the department to whi(;h he devoted his fife; and 



S. Mis. 53. 91 

\vhile wc bow with submission to this m^'-sterious dispensntion of Provi- 
dence, we {ec\ that his decease is an irreparable loss to this Institution, 
to the city of Washington, nndin general a public calaniit}^ 

Resolved, That we tender to the family of the deceased the expres- 
sion of our sincere S3anpathy in this time of their afihction. 

Resolved, That the Secretary be requested to send a copy of these 
resolutions to the family of the deceased. 

The Board then adjourned sine die. 



SEVENTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

Washington, Jamiary 5, lS-53. 

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of llegents of the 
Smithsonian Institution, fixing the time of the beginning of their annual 
meeting on the first Wednesday of January of each year, the Board 
met this day in the Regents' room, over the south entrance of the main 
building. 

Present : Messrs. Mason, JNIaury, Meacham, Rush, and Totten, of 
the Board ; and Mr. Seaton, treasurer of the Institution. Mr. Charlton, 
the new member appointed from the Senate U. S., was present and 
took his seat at the Board. 

In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Rush was called to the chair. 

The Secretary informed the Board that there were two vacancies in 
the list of Regents, and that the Senate had passed a i^esolution to fill 
these, which was now before the House of Representatives for con- 
currence. Also, that there was a vacancy in the Executive Commit- 
tee, which prevents the drawing of the semi-annual interest from the 
treasury and the settlement of the accounts of the past yvdi. 
On motion of JNIr. Mason, 

Resolved, That the vacancy in the Executive Committee be filled by 
nomination of the Chair. 

Whereupon, Mr. Mason was appointed. 

The Secretary informed the Board that the accounts and reports 
relative to the operations of the last year would be ready for presenta- 
tion at the next meeting. 

Whereupon, the Board adjourned to Saturday the 15th inst., at 10 
o'clock a. m. 



Washington, January 15, 1S53. 
The Board of Regents met this day at 10 o'clock in the Regents' 
room. A. quorum not being present, the meeting adjourned to 22d 
inst., at 1 1 o'ck)ck a. m. 



92 S. Mis. 53. 

Washington January 22, 1853. 

The Board of Regents met this day at 11 o'clock a. m. Present: 
Messrs. Charlton, Colcock, Maury, Meacham, Pearce, Rush, Totten ; 
Mr. Seaton, treasurer ; and Washington Irving, honorary member. 

In the absence of the Chancellor, and on motion of Mr. Rush, Mr. 
Pearce took the chair. 

The proceedings of the previous meeting were read and approved. 

The Building Committee submitted their report, which was read 
and adopted. 

The Secretary presented the report and final decision of James 
Renwick, Jr., which was read, and, on motion of General Totten, 
referred to the Building Committee. 

The plans for finishing the central building, by Captain B. S. Alex- 
ander, corps of Engineers U. S., were presented and examined. 

On motion of General Totten, the following resolutions were adopted : 

Resolved, That the plans for finishing the interior of the centre 
building presented by Captain B. S. Alexander, corps Engineers U. S., 
be adopted by the Board of Regents, reserving the right, in behalf 
of the Building Committee, of altering the details thereof to such an 
extent as may seem to them proper as the work proceeds. 

Resolved, That Captain Alexander be requested to give to the gene- 
ral supervision of the execution of his plan such time as his public 
duties will permit, and that he be compensated therefor to such amount 
as to the Building Committee shall seem just and proper. 

The treasurer presented the details of the expenditures ; which 
was, on motion, referred to the Executive Committee. 

The Secretary presented his report of the operations of the Insti- 
tution for the past year; which was, in part, read. 

The Board then adjourned to Friday evening next, 28th instant, at 
7^ o'clock. 



Washington, January 28, 1853. 

The Board of Regents met this evening at 8 o'clock in the Regents' 
room. Present: Messrs. Bache, Charlton, Colcock, Mason, Meacham, 
and Totten, of the Board, and Washington Irving, honorary member. 

In the absence of the Chancellor, and on motion of Mr. Rush, Mr. 
Mason took the chair. 

The Secretary announced to the Board that Professor A. D. Bache, 
of Washington, had been re-elected, by a joint resolution of the two 
houses of Congress, a Regent for six years ; and also that the Hon. 
John Macpherson Berrien, of Georgia, had been elected a Regent for 
the same term. Mr. Bache being present, took his seat in the Board. 

The proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved. 

The Secretary made a statement relative to the expedition under the 
direction of Dr. E. K. Kane, U. S. Navy, and his want of instruments 
for magnetic observations in the Arctic seas, referring at the same time 
to the expedition to Chih, of Lieut. Gilhss, U. S. Navy, to whom a 
timely and highly useful grant had been made by the Board, under 
similar circumstances, and which had been reimbursed to the Institution. 



S. Mis. 53. 93 

Mr. Rush offered the following resolution, which was adopted : 

Resolved, That a sum not exceeding live hundred dollars he, and 
the same is hereby, appropriated ior the purchase of philosophical 
instruments to be used in the new expedition in search of Sir John 
Franklin in the Arctic seas, and which are to be committed to the 
charge of Dr. E. K. Kane, of that expedition. 

The Secretary presented the application of the Rev. Mr. Dennison 
for the use of the lecture-room for holding religious service therein, 
which was referred to the Secretary. 

The Secretary presented the case of Stanley's gallery of Indian 
portraits, for which, if they should be purchased by the government, 
the use of the gallery of art was considered necessary as a temporary 
place of deposit : also referred to the Secretary. 

The reading of the annual report was then continued, including the 
report of Prof Baird, Assistant Secretary, relative to exchanges. 

Mr. Mason expressed a desire to resign his place as member of the 
Executive Committee, which he had accepted with a view to the re- 
appointment of Mr. Bache as Regent, and his subsequent re-election 
as a member of the Executive Committee. 

The resignation of Mr. Mason was accepted, and Mr. Bache re- 
elected. 

A letter was presented from Gilbert Cameron, requesting, on ac- 
count of his reputation, to be allowed to finish the centre building, and 
claiming this privilege as a right under his general contract: reierred 
to the Building Committee. 

The Board then adjourned to Thursday evening, February 3, at 
6J o'clock. 



Washington, February 3, 1S53. 

The Board of Regents met this evening at 8 o'clock. Present : 
Messrs. Bache, Charlton, Colcock, Mason, Maury, Meacham, and 
Totten, of the Board, and Washington Irving, honorary member. 

Mr. Mason took the cliair. 

The proceedings of the previous meeting were read and approved. 

The Building Committee, to which was referred the letter of Mr, 
Cameron relative to his right to the contract for finishing the centre 
building, reported progress, and presented a communication from Mr. 
Carlisle upon this subject, which was then referred back to the com- 
mittee. 

The Secretary presented a plan of a building for a magnetic ob- 
servatory near the Institution ; stating, also, that instruments of^ the 
best construction, now in the possession of die Superintendent of the 
U. S. Coast Survey, would be furnished. 

Mr. Colcock offered the following resolution, which was adopted : 

Resolved, That a magnetic observatory be erected, under the super- 
vision of the Building Committee, at such place on the grounds of the 
Institution as diey may select, and according to a plan to be approved 
by them, and that the sum of eleven hundred dollars is hereby appro- 
priated therefor. 



94 S. Mis. 53. 

A communication from Captain Lefroy, R. A., was presented and 
read, relative to the discontinuance of the magnetic observatory of 
Toronto, Canada West : referred t(j the Executive Committee and the 
Secretary, who were requested to memoriahze the British government 
on the subject. 

The correspondence between the Secretary and Mrs. A. J. Downing, 
upon the transmission of the resolutions of the Board upon receiving 
information of the death of Mr. Downing, was read. 

The Secretary also informed the Board of the recent death of Sears 
C. Walker, esq., and of Prof C. B. Adams, of Amherst College, Mas- 
sachusetts ; whereupon the following resolutions, offered by Mr. Bache, 
were adopted : 

Resolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have 
heard with deep regret the announcement of the death of Sears C. 
Walker, esq., whose communications in the Smithsonian Transactions 
on the planet Neptune have attracted the notice and won the approval 
and admiration of astronomers throughout the world. 

Resolved, That the Regents offer to the tamily of Mr. Walker their 
condolence on the loss which they have sustained. 

Resolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have 
heard with regret the decease of their valued correspondent, Prof. C. 
B. Adams, which occurred at St. Thomas, while he was engaged in 
making collections in natural history, to which science he was devoted ; 
and offer to his family their condolence on the loss which they have 
sustained. 

The Board then adjourned, to meet on Saturday, the 12th inst., at 10 
o'clock a. m. 



Washington, February 12, 1853. 

The Board of Regents met this day at 10 o'clock a. m. Present : 
Messrs. Bache, Fitch, Maury, Meacham, and Pearce, of the Board, 
and Washington Irving, honorary member. 

On motion, Mr. Pearce took the chair. 

The proceedings of the previous meeting were read and approved. 

Mr. Bache, in behalf of the Executive Committee, presented a letter 
to be forwarded to the British Home and Colonial governments, to 
urge the continuance of the Toronto observatory. 

The Secretary presented to the consideration of the Board the ne- 
cessity of making provision for the investment of the surplus fimd in 
the event of the petition now before Congress relative to it not being 
acted on. 

The Chair stated it to be the opinion of Mr. Corcoran, who had been 
present, that the State stocks of North Carohna would be a suitable 
and safe means of investment : referred to the Executive Committee. 

The Secretary presented for the examination of the Board a manu- 
script memoir, by J. A. Lapham, relative to the mounds of Wisconsin, 
received from the American Antiquarian Society of Worcester, and 
mentioned m the sixth Annual Report. 

The Secretarjr presented the case of the late Prof C. B. Adams, 
whose draft for one hundred and fifty dollars had been honored by the 



S. Mis. 53. 95 

Institution. A letter from Thomas Bland, esq., on the part of the 
family of Prof. A., was read, ofFerinir to refund the money or send to 
the Institution a portion of the collections in natural liistmy made by 
Prof. Adams in his last expedition. 

The subject was referred to the Secretary, with the understanding 
that the collections be accepted, and that the repayment of the money 
be not required from the executors of Prof. Adams. 

The Secretary presented the subject of the compensation of Dr. J. 
G. Fliigel, of Leipsic, the agent for Smithsonian exchanges in Central 
Europe. 

The following resolution, offered by Mr. Bache, was adopted : 

Resolved, That the compensation of Dr. J. G. Fliigel, agent at Leipsic 
for the reception and distril)ution of pul:)lications on the part of the 
Smithsonian Institution tor Central America, be three hundred dollars 
per annum until otherwise ordered by the Board. 

The reading of the Secretary's report was continued, including an 
account of the operations in meteorology during the past year; also 
including the operations relative to the librar}'', under the care of Prof. 
Jewett. 

An extensive collection of MS. bills, inventories, and other accounts 
of business in private English fariilies, from 1632 to 1750, in fifty-four 
volumes, presented by Mr. J. O. Ha Hi well, was laid on the table for 
examination ; and, on motion, the following resolution was adopted: 

Rcsolv'd, That the Secretary be requested to transmit to Mr.. J. O. 
Halliwell, of London, an expression of the grateful sense entertained 
by the Board of Regents of the muniiicent gift received from him, and 
of the honor done the Institution by selecting it as a place of deposit 
for these interesting documents. 

The operations of the stereotyping department were presented by 
the Secretary, and a statement made of its capability of preparing and 
printing catalogiies of all the libraries in the United States. 

On motion, the following ],)reamble and resolution were adopted : 

Whereas a plan for stereotyping catalogues by separate titles, and 
for preparing and printing the catalogues of the various libraries in the 
United States in unil()rm style, and at greatly diminished cost, as well 
as for forming a general catalogue of all these libraries, was presented 
to the Smithsonian Institution and referred to two commissions — one 
to report upon the literary advantages of the plan, and the other upon 
the practicability of the means proposed ft>r its execution: 

And whereas, on the recommendation of these commissions, the 
Smiihsonian Institution has incurred the ex])ense of procuring type 
and apparatus, of educating workmen, and of" developing and perfect- 
ing processes to be employed, so that all arrangements are now made 
for the successful prosecution of the work : 

And whereas the first commission appointed to examine the plan, 
in their report, recommended that, " In order that a bei^inning might 
be made in the execution of the plan under circumstances highly 
favorable to its success, the undersigned take the liberty of suggesting 
that it would be advisable for the Regents of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion to obtain the requisite authority to prepare a catalogue of the 
library of Congrqss on the above described plan :" Therefore, 



96 S. Mis. 53. 

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Institution be requested to call 
the attention of the Library Committee of Congress to the above 
described plan, to inform them that the Institution is now ready to 
execute the proposed work, and to invite their co-operation in aid of 
an enterprise so important to the library of Congress, to all the libraries 
in the country, and to the great object of this Institution, "the increase 
and diffusion of knowledge." 

Mr. Pearce, as chairman, presented from the Executive Committee 
their annual report in relation to the finances and expenditures of the 
Institution during the year 1852. 

The Board then adjourned, to meet at the call of the Secretary. 



ERRATUM. 



For the date of Professor Henry's letter transmitting Report, read " March 1, 
1853," instead of "August 20, 1852." 



<2 «:i*;<i* 






cfc-.'c: 






: V d^'Ci.^- 



g-)t^C:.< d 









"C'^C^ 









ere 


:C C <C<L' 


«_^ ■ «^-_: 


<1<: 

<::<' 




S.C 


,■: <zj 


. '. C 'C c ' 


C <C' «■ 


- C _ < 


<'c c c << 


d c 


C ' 


.c c - <:__o- 


<_ <- 


c 


. c c --<^- ': 


;r- ^^ < 


~ c 


V.' r- . ,<i_ <' 


<:: •■.■«- 








Xr" 


^" «*:_ -f 


<l >;-iL 


t'. ■ 


.C '•<SL_ ' .'- 


<C. '£d 


X^' 


c <«x::i y->:ir- 


-d'^sii 


■ c ■ 


- c .a3L_. '«is^ 


*^ -5<. 


<-- (J 




<LC<2 


^ ' 


C !«3L: "^-i-*" 


i.^:-^-*: 


: V 


r .«ccil<i<^ 


." .:d_//< 




<. .. "c. ^iCL.. ■« 


^«j.. *_- 




. c «!ac: «•' 


<?._ <^^ ■ 


~ ^f 


c^sd.M-^ 


:: d:-< 


^ , 


c wc: «c«- 


%. <^, 



<1 ^^ 















^gy 









- ^^ *^ .,.:c <qp::«?€. 









' i&dc d«^. 






Cy--<<" .f.^- 



<c ct 






=1 v^l^^■ 






<:tr c or <<^ ' 












otic. 
<<<: ■ 

I- t 

<-< I. 


' 4 
4 






■<? ■•< <r <- 


C «« 
C-u< 

.0 < 
C> « 
<■ : « 

c: « 
■- • .0 


CLL.' 


«^ : 


z.<\ 




<-" ■ 


<< 


■<r' 








■ ■><!_■ ^K- 




■ <: 




r c 


c 


St.;;S-*- 



^ < or 



<::^^r 












c: c c: . 

. Cy- C 

- c c 



^^£ 



c^^.c<j:;tc 






<sec: 






^^m 



rc<5 ^<^ 



!l^iCi> -((-^^ 



^jT'CCL- 









■ -?c<^' -^ic. ^S^'cc',c<a«:c 

mt <^xz-^ '-<aGL_ ^^:^ ' 

~^cc ^c<-«- -•c;<c,' .<2i.-!Sj&^ 



<j8cr<<i < • ■c«c. ^ ■ cscsci 






<<fc..<_ 



.<lc< «CL <I¥tC 

c<^C<C CMC - 



«:f<'c< <rc.c 
c;«; < ' 



<:cc<a:<i. 









1- «r<r <:- 






<Z Crcc 
















SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 




3 9088 01421 6139 




