ANXUAL REPORT 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



OF THE 



SMITHSONIAN^ INSTITUTION, 



SHOWING 



THE UPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES. AND CONDITION 
OF THE INSTITUTION 



FOR THE 



YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1900. 



REPORT 



U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 









WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT PRINTIN(i OFFICE. 

19 2. 



AN AtT I'KOVIinXt; KOK TH K ITHLIC I'lUXTINti AND lUNDIXG, AND THE J)ISTKIHUT10N 

OF PUBLIC DOCUMENTS. 

Ajjpruved January 12, 1895. 

"Of theRei)ortuf the SinithHoniau Institution, ten tiiousand eopies; one thousand 
(•oiiies for tlie Senate, two tiiousand for the House, five tliousaml for distribution by 
tlie Smithsonian Institution, and two thousand for distribution by the National 
Museum." 



REPORT 



U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, 



UNDER THE DIKECTIOX OK 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



YEAR ENUINO^ JUNE 30, 1900. 



REPORT OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR 
ENDING JUNE 30, 1900. 



SU BJ ECTS. 

I. Report of the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 
with Appendices. 

II. Papers describing and illustrating Collections in the U. S. 
National Museum. 



United States National Museum, 

Under directiox of the Smithsonian Institution, 

WasJungtmi, October 1, 1900. 

Sir : I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present 
condition of the United States National Museum, and upon the work 
accomplished in its various departments during the liscal year ending- 
June 30, 1900. 

Very respectfully. 

Richard Rathbun, 

Assistant Seei^i-tanj. 
Mr. S. P. Langlet, 

Secr<4ary, 8iniths<yn.imi InMliution . 

VII 



CONTENTS 



Page. 

Subjects v 

Letter of transmitta l vii 

Contents ix 

List of illustrations xi 

PART L 

Report of the Assistant Secretary. 

(iENERAI, rOXSIOKRATIONS. 

As a museum of record 8 

Asa museum of research 9 

As an educational museum 10 

Pressing needs of the Museum 12 

Important accessions and work ( )f the year. 15 

Reports of Head Curators. 

Report on the department of anthropology for tlie year 1899-1900 21 

Organization and personnel 21 

Department offices 21 

Exhibition cases 22 

Accessions 22 

Important accessions 23 

Care of collections 24 

Storage 25 

Cataloguing 25 

Installation 26 

Labeling 27 

Field work 28 

Researches 28 

Loans 29 

Report on the department of Ijiology for the year 1899-1900 31 

Improvement of exhiV)ition halls 31 

Explorations 33 

Accessions 34 

Study collections 38 

Researches and publications 40 

Use of the collections 42 

Loan of specimens 42 

Distri 1 )ution of duplicates 44 

Preparations for the Pan-American Exposition 44 

Personnel 44 

Report on the department of geology for the year 1899-1900 45 

IX 



X CONTF.JJTS. 

Page. 

Accessions 45 

Progress in instiillnti(in 47 

Present ('(intlitioii of cnl lections 49 

Research 51 

Sources of new material 52 

Assistance afforded students and investii^ators 56 

Future work 56 

SrMMAKY OK THE OPERATIONS OK THE VEAK. 

The Museum staff 59 

Apj^ropriations and expenditures 59 

Buildings - 61 

Accessions and registration 61 

Distribution and exchange 63 

Visitors 64 

Researches 65 

Cooperation of the P'.xecutive Deitartinents of tlie (xovermnent 67 

Explorations 68 

Information furnished 71 

Publications 71 

Library 72 

Taxidermy and osteology 73 

Photography 73 

Expositions 74 

Necrology - 74 

APPENDICES. 

I. The Museum staff 77 

II. List of ai-cessions 79 

III. Distribution of specimens 119 

IV. Bibliography 129 

V. Papers ])nblished in sei)aratt' form 151 

PART II. 
Papers Descrfbing and Ilm'strating Collections in the U. S. National MrsErM. 

1. Anthroi)ological Studies in California. By William Henry Holmes 155 

2. Aboriginal American Harpoons: A Study in Ethnic Distribution and Inven- 

tion. By Otis Tufton Mason bS9 

3. A Sketch of the History of the Ceramic Art in C'hina, with a C'atalogue of 

the Hippisley Collection of Chinese Porcelains. By Alfred E. Hii)pisley . ."WO 

4. Contributions to the History of Musical Scales. By Charles Kasson Wead. 417 

5. .V Collection of Hopi Ceremonial Pigments. By VV^ilter Hough 463 

6. Descriptive Catalogue of the Collecti(ms of Gems in the U. S. National 

Museum. By Wirt Tassin 4"3 

7. Descriptive Catalogue of the ^h^teorite Collection in the V. S. National 

Museum. By Wirt Tassin , 671 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



PLATES. 
Kep(ikt i>f the 1)kpartmknt of Geology for the Yeah 1S99-1900. 

By (Jeorge p. Merrill. Fu.inKPrtRe. 

1. View showing wall and rail cases and installation of noniiit'tallic minerals 

on gallery of southwest eoiirt of U. 8. National Museum. Looking west. 4') 

2. View showing rail ease and installation of nonmetallii- minerals on gallery 

of southwest court of U. S. National Mu.seum. Looking north 45 

3. Basaltic columns, Bennau, near Asbach, Prussia 48 

4. Vok-anic bombs 48 

o. Faulted sandstones, Black Hills, South Dakota 50 

»). Concretionary granite, Slattem(")sse, Smiiland, Sweden 50 

7. View showing wall case and installation of invertebrate fossils on gallery 

of southeast court 50 

8. View showing storage cases in section of ]>aleobotany on gailer\' of west 

s( lutli range 52 

it. Skull of Lepidosteus Atrox, Fossil, Wyoming 54 

Anthropological Studies ix California. 
By WiLLiA.M Henry Hol.mes. 

L Milling place of the California Indians (frontispiece) 155 

2. Stone mealing plates, Oro Flat 108 

3. Stones for rubbing and pounding, Oro Flat 1 68 

4. A. Dismantled milling place, Yankee Jim. 

H. Stone pestle, pounding-grinding stone, and wagon-axle jiestle, Yankee 

Jim ". 1 68 

5. Baskets, Todds Valley Indians 1 68 

6. Unfinished basket, Todds Valley Indians 168 

7. Basket, Todds Valley Indians * 168 

8. A. Native village at ]Murphys. 

B. Shelter for summer use, near Murphys 170 

9. Stone mortars from Stanislaus and Mokelumne valleys 170 

10. Carrying and hulling acorns 172 

1 1 . (Grinding acorn meal on stone plate 1 72 

12. .1. Pounding acorns in mortar. 

/>'. Sifting the meal — separating the coarse particles by shaking 1 72 

l.">. .1. Removing coarse particles from edge of basket. 

B. Resting from the work 1 72 

14. .1. Cleaning the meal by shaking and blowing. 

B. Pouring meal inti > sand beil for leaching 1 72 

15. A. Lifting hot stones into basket of water. 

B. Removing stones from basket of water 1 72 

16. Underground council chamber, Pomo village 1 74 

17. Construction of Poino buildings 174 

18. Carrying baskets of the Pomo Indians 174 



XII LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Facing page. 

19. Feather-decorated baskets of the Porno Indians 174 

20. Feather-decorated baskets of the Pouio Indians 

21. A. Pouio woman making a basket. 

B. Ponio men making shell beads — grinding and drilling 174 

22. A. Porno woman with carrying basket. 

B. Porno woman pounding acorns in mortar with basket hopper 174 

23. .1. Mound near Stockton. 

B. Exposure of skeletons in mound, Stockton 1 76 

24. .1. Cylindrical steatite vessel from Stockton mounds. 

B. Shell ornaments from Stockton mounds 176 

25. Obsidian knives from Stockton mounds 761 

26. Clay pellets for use in slings, Stockton mounds 1 76 

27. Clay pellets for use in slings, Stockton mounds 176 

28. A. Clay pellets and ornaments, Stockton mounds. 

B. Decorated bone implements, Stockton mounds 176 

29. Mortar rock, Tulare Reservation 178 

30. Thrashing and winnowing beans, Tulare Indians 180 

31. Mortar and pestle in use by Tulare Indians 1 80 

32. Pigeon snaring, Tulare Indians 180 

33. Implements, Tulare Indians. A. Pigeon snare, Tulare Indians. 

B. Game basket. 

C. Wooden tire tongs. 

D. Looped boiling stick 180 

34. Yucca bulbs and brushes, Tulare Indians 180 

35. Ceremonial headdi'ess and matting case for same, Tulare Indians 180 

36. Winnowing baskets, Tulare Indians .• 180 

37. Bowl-shaped baskets, Tulare Indians 180 

38. Bowl-shaped basket, Tulare Indians 180 

39. Bottle-shaped basket, Tulare Indians 180 

40. Bottle-shaped basket, Tulare Indians 180 

41. Tulare gambling tray 180 

42. Tulare squaws using gambling tray 180 

43. Pasadena village-site artifacts 182 

44. Pasadena village-site artifacts 182 

45. Views of Santa Barbara Point, the site of a prehistoric cemetery 182 

46. Traces of aboriginal work in soapstone quarry, Santa Catalina Island 184 

47. Obje(^ts of soapstone from a grave, Santa Catalina Island 184 

48. Examining a grave at Soapstone quarry, Santa Catalina Island 184 

49. Views at the isthmus, Santa Catalina Island 184 

50. Small mortars, unfinished and finished, and imlinished pestle 184 

Aboriginal American Harpoons: A Study in Ethnic Distribution and Invention. 

By Otis Tiifton Mason. 

Frontispiece. The master of the harpoon 189 

1. Accessories to the harpoon 208 

2. Fuegian barbed harpoon heads 212 

3. Harpoon arrow and sheath, Venezuela. . .' 216 

4. Toggle harpoon, east Greenland 238 

5. Seal harpoon from west Greenland 240 

6. Complete seal harpoon, Cumberland Sound 260 

7. Toggle harpoon heads, Amur River and Cumberland Sound 262 

8. Barbed harpoon, with hand rests, St. Michael Island, Alaska 282 

9. Barbed harpoon, with hand rest and bladder, Norton Sound 284 

10. Larger Bering Sea harpoon 290 

11. Barbed harpoon for throwing stick. Sledge Island 292 



LIST OF ILLUSTEATIONS. XIII 

Facing page. 

12. Sea-otter harpoon, Bristol Bay. Alaska 294 

13. Long-handled l)arl)ed harp< ion, Bristol Bay 296 

14 and 15. Toggle harpoon, line, and iioat, Knsilvak, Yukon River 298 

16 and 17. Barbed ^ea-otter harpoon arrows, Alaskan Peninsula 300 

18. Barbed harpoon dart f( ir throwing stick - 302 

19. Barbed harpoon with tioat, Kadiak, Alaska 304 

A Sketch of the History of the Ceramic Art in China, with a Catalogue of 

THE HipPisLEY Collection of Chinese Porcelains. 

By Alfred E. Hippisley. 

1. Bowls of white K'anghsi porcelain (Nos. 27 and 46) 374 

2. Vases of K'anghsi porcelain (No. 53) and Chienlung porcelain (No. 236). 378 

3. Vases of white K'anghsi porcelain ( Nos. 81 and 60) 382 

4. Vase of K'anghsi porcelain ( No. 82) - - 384 

5. Plates of white Yungcheng porcelain (Nos. 117 and 118) 386 

6. Vases of white Y^ungcheng porcelain (Nos. 130, 125, and 129) 388 

7. Vases of white Yungcheng porcelain (Nos. 133, 128, and 124) 388 

8. Pilgrim-bottle of white Chienlung porcelain (No. 176) 390 

9. Plates of Chienlung porcelain (Xos. 191 and 192) and pencil holder 

( No. 221 ) 392 

10. Vases of Chienlung porcelain (Nos. 195 and 194) 394 

11. Vase of Chienlung porcelain ( No. 202) 394 

12. Vase of wdiite porcelain (No. 206) 396 

13. Vases of white Chienlung porcelain (Nos. 220, 226, and 185) 398 

14. Vase of white Chienlung porcelain (No. 235) 398 

15. Vase of white Chienlung porcelain ( No. 238) 398 

16. Vase of white Chienlung porcelain ( No. 245 ) 400 

17. Vases of white Chienlung porcelain (Nos. 264 and 204) 402 

18. Teapot and cups of Chienlung porcelain (Nos. 330-332) 406 

19. Rice bowls of Yungcheng porcelain (Nos. 329 and 328) and vase of 

Chienlung porcelain ( No. 336) 406 

20. Pencil holder and wine cups of Ku Yiiehhsiian ware (Nos. 327, 325, and 

326) 408 

21. Vases of white Chienlung porcelain (Nos. 333 and 334) 408 

Contributions to the History of INIusical Scales. 
By Charles Kasson Weau. 

1 . Stringed instruments 444 

2. Flutes with equal-spaced holes 446 

3. Flutes Avith equal-spaced holes 448 

4. Flutes with equal-spaced holes 450 

5. Flutes with holes in two gn )ups 452 

6. Flutes w'ith holes in two gnjups 454 

7. Central American resonators or whistles 456 

8. Composite instruments 458 

9. Pan's pipes 460 

10. Scales given by resonators 462 

Descriptive Catalogue of the Collections of Gems in the U. S. National 

Museum. 

By Wirt T.\ssin. 

1. Banded nodules of azurite and malachite, Morenci, Arizona. Specimen No. 

48567, U.S.N.M 490 

2. Crocidolite in quartz, Griqualana West, South Africa. Specimen No. 47105, 

U.S.N.M 500 



XIV LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Facing page. 

3. Aiiiazonstoiu-, Piket^ Peak, Colorado. Specimen No. 81813, U.S.N.M 514 

4. Opalized wood, Clover Creek, Lincoln County, Idaho. Specimen No. 

82584,U.S.N.M ". 518 

5. Crystals of quartz, Dauphiny, France. Specimen No. 82218, U.S.N.INI 522 

6. Carnelian agate, Uruguay. Specimen No. 61770, U.S.N.M 524 

7. Rutile in quartz (Venus' Hair Stone), Alexander County, North Carolina. 

Specimen No. 47620, U.S.N.M ." 526 

8. Topaz with smoky quartz. Specimen No. 81242, U.S.N.M 5;W 

9. Siberian topaz. Specimen No. 81244, U. S. N. M 532 

Descriptive Catalogue op the Meteorite Collection in the U. S. National 

Museum. 

By Wirt Tassin. 

1. The Meteorite Collection. A, The Casas Grandes meteoric iron; B, Tucson 

meteoric iron ; C, Canyon Diablo meteoric iron 671 

2. The Allegan meteorite 676 

3. The Casas (Ti'andes meteoric iron 678 

4. The Felix meteorite 682 



TEXT FIGURES. 
Aboriginal A.merican Harpoons: A Study in Ethnic Distribution and Invention. 

By Otis Tufton Mason. p^^ ^ 

1 . Type form of toggle head, Hudson Bay 201 

2. Loose shafts of toggle harpoons, Cumberland Sound 204 

3. Eyelet on harpoon line, CuinljerJand Sound 206 

4. Line swivel, Cumberland Sound 206 

5. Sealskin float, Cuml^erland Sound 207 

6. Mouthpieces to floats, Cumberland Sound 207 

7. Seal indicators, Point Barrow, Alaska 209 

8. Sealing stool. Point Barrow, Alaska 210 

9. Line detacher, St. Michael, Alaska 210 

10. Decoy for seal, Sledge Island, Alaska 211 

11 . Ice scoops, Amur River and Bristol Bay 212 

12. Fuegian ])arbed harpoon 213 

13. Barbed harpoon heads, Chile and Peru 215 

14. Harpoon arrow, Bororo Indians, Brazil 217 

15. Turtle harpoon, Seri Indians 222 

16. Barljed hari)Oon head, Seri Indians 223 

17. Toggle harpoon, Hupa Indians, California 223 

18. Barbed harpoon head, Naltunne Indians, Oregon 225 

19. Salmon spear, Quinaielt Indians, Washington 226 

20. Toggle head and line, Makah Indians, "Washington 228 

21. Sealskin float, Makah Indians, Washington 229 

22. Toggle harpoon, Thompson Indians, British Columbia 233 

23. Hinged toggle head, east Greenland 238 

24. Toggle head, west Greenland 240 

25. Toggle head, west Greenland 241 

26. Toggle and barbed harpoon head, west Greenland 244 

27. Toggle head, west Greenland 245 

28. ( )ld toggle head, north Greenland 246 

29. ( )ld barbed and toggle head, west Greenland 246 

30. Barbed harpoon head, northern ( ireenland 247 

31. Old harpoon head, north Greenland 247 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. XV 

Page. 

32. Toggle head, west (Ireenland 248 

88. Old l)arbe<l and toggle ]iea<l, \ve.st Greenland 248 

34. Old toggle head, north (ireenland 249 

35. ( )ld l)arl)ed and toggle head, west Greenland 250 

3H. Barl)e<l and toggle head, west Greenland 251 

37. Barbed and toggle head, west Greenland 251 

38. Toggle head, west Greenland 252 

39. Old toggle head, west Greeidand 252 

40. Old toggle head, west Greenland 252 

41 . Toggle head, west Greenland 253 

42. Small toggle head, west Greenland 253 

43. Old toggle head, west Greenland 253 

44. Old toggle head, west Greenland 254 

45. Small toggle head, west Greenland 254 

46. Old toggle head, west Greenland 254 

47. Small toggle head, west Greenland 255 

48. Shaft of smaller harpoon, south ( Greenland 255 

49. Foreshaft and loose shaft of ligure 48 256 

50. Old toggle head, Upernavik, Greenland 256 

51. Model of harpoon, Whale River, Canada 257 

52. Old barbed and toggle head, Upernavik, Greenland 260 

53. Loose head of lance. Repulse Bay 260 

54. Toggle head, Repulse Bay, northeast Canada 261 

55. Head of whale harpoon, Hudson Bay 262 

56. Head of whale lance, Cmnberland Sound 263 

57. Toggle head, Cumberland Sound 264 

58. Loose head of lance, Cunii)erland Sound 264 

59. Loose head of lance, Cumberland Sound 265 

60. Loose head of lance, Cumberland Sound 265 

61. Old toggle head with stone blade 266 

62. Barbed and toggle head, Mackenzie River 271 

63. Toggle head, Diomede Island, Bering Strait 272 

64. Model of toggle head, Kotzebue Sound 272 

65. Toggle head, Diomede Island, Bering Strait 273 

66. Toggle head of whale harpoon, Pcjint Barrow, Alaska 273 

67. Toggle head. Point Barrow. Alaska 273 

68. Toggle head with leader. Point Barrow 274 

69. Walrus toggle-head harpoons. Point Barrow, Alaska 275 

70. Sealing harpoon. Point Barrow, Alaska 275 

71 . Old barbed and toggle heads. Point Barrow, Alaska 276 

72. ( )ld transition harpoon head, Point Barnnv, Alaska 276 

73. Barbed and toggle head. Point Barrow, Alaska 277 

74. Combined barbed and toggle lu'ad, Point Barrow, Alaska 278 

75. Barbed and toggle liead, l*oint I'arrow, Alaska 278 

76. Combined barl)ed and toggle head. Point Barrow, Alaska 279 

77. Old toggle head, Point Barrow, Alaska 279 

78. ( )ld-style toggle head. Point Barrow, Alaska 280 

79. Retrieving harpoon. Point Barrow, Alaska 281 

80. Detail of figure 78 281 

81. Toggle head harpoon, Norton Sound, Alaska 285 

82. Barl)ed harpoon, St. Michael Island, Alaska 286 

83. Toggle head and accessories, Kuskokwim River 288 

84. Toggle head and accessories, Kuskokwim River 289 

85. Toggle heaii, Caj)e Nome, Norton Sound, Alaska 290 

86. Iron toggle hea<l. Sledge Island, Norton Sound, Alaska 291 

87. Toggle head, Port Clarence, Bering Sea, Alaska 291 

88. Toggle hari)oon head, Bristol Bay, Alaska 297 



XVI LIST OV ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Page. 

89. Modern liarpoon head of iron, Cund^erlaud Sound 301 

90. Iron toggle head, Amur River, Asia 301 

91. Shaft of toggle harpoon, Cumberland Sound 302 

92. Bone foreshaft of harpoon, Bristol Bay, Alaska 302 

Contributions to the History of Musical Scales. 
By Charles Kasson Weaj). 

1. European mandolin, after ^'iollet le Due 424 

2. Greek guitar, after Drieberg 424 

3. Terra eotta whistle, after Mahillon 430 

4. Babylonian whistle, after Engel 431 

5. Chinese resonators, after Amiot 431 

6. Globular whistles, after Frol^enius - - 432 

7. Globular wliistle, after Kraus 432 

8. Xylophones, after Kraus 436 

Descriptive Catalogue of the Collections of Gems in the U. S. National 

Museum. 
By Wirt Tassin. 

1. Diagram to illustrate refraction 483 

2. Diagram to illustrate double refraction 483 

3. Nicholson hydrometer 485 

4. Emerald crystal, Stony Point, Alexander County, North C-arolina; weight, 

8| ounces. Specimen No. 83730, U.S.N.M . ." 491 

5. Corundum crystals, Ceylon. Specimen No. 81441, U.S.N.M 498 

6. Diamond crystals, Kimberly Mines, South Africa. Specimen No. 84799, 

U.S.N.M ". 504 

7. Garnet crj'stal and pebbles of pyrope. Specimen No. 82575, U.S.N.M 510 

8. Agate, Brazil. Specimen No. 44948, U.S.N.M 521 

9. Agatized wood, Chalcedony Park, Arizona. Specimen No. 82485, 

U.S.N.M , 522 

10. Amethyst crystals. Upper Providence, Pennsylvania. Specimen No. 83676, 

U.S.N.M. "- '. 523 

11. Moss agate, Sheridan, Kansas. Specimen No. 49261, U.S.N.M 525 

12. Spinel crystals, Kandy, Ceylon. Specimen No. 49163, U.S.N.M 528 

13. Topaz pebbles (gouttes d'eau), Mitchell River, New South Wales. Speci- 

men No. 83782, U.S.N.M 531 

14. The brilliant; a and li, manner in which the brilliant is derived from the 

fundamental form; c, (/, and c, top, side, and back view of brilliant with 
58 facets; /, g, and /;, top, side, and back view of modified brilliant with 

66 facets ." 548 

15. The double Ijrilliant; top («), side {b), and back {(■) view 549 

16. The half brilliant; top (a) and side {b) view of half brilliant. In r the 

top is cut in the form of a star, then called English single cut 549 

17. The trap brilliant; to- {a), side (6), and back (c) view 550 

18. The Portuguese cut; Uj (a), side [b), and back (c) view 550 

19. The star cut; (a) front and (h) back view 550 

20. The rose cut; a and b, top and side view; c, side view of a double rose . . . 551 

21. Upper and under side of trap cut 551 

22. The step-brilliant cut 552 

23. Top and side view of table cut 552 

24. The cabochon cut; a, the single cabochon; b, the double calHK-hon; r, the 

hollow cabochon; d, flat or tallow-top cabochon; e, mixed cabochon. . . 552 

25. The zodnacal stones, with their signs (after an old i>rint ) 560 

26. The figures of the planets, with their significant stones (after an old i)rint) . 562 



r> ^ K T I . 



REPORT 



UPON TIIK 



CONDIKOiN AND PROGRESS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM 
DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 80, 1000. 



RICHARD RATHBUN, 

ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



NAT MUS VMM) i 






UPON 



THE CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM 
DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1900. 



ElCHARD RaTHBUN, 

Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 

The act of Congress of 1846 establishing the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion made it the legal place of deposit for all "objects of art and of 
foreign and ciirious research, and all objects of natural histor}^, plants, 
and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging to the United 
States," and thereby created, in fact if not in name, a national museum. 
With extraordinary foresight the same act provided for additions to 
the national collections by exchange, donation, or other means, and 
for the arrangement and classification of the specimens in a manner 
best to facilitate their examination and study, all in such broad and 
comprehensive terms as to cover the full activities of a great establish- 
ment of this kind. 

The Smithson fund at that time amounted to about half a million 
dollars, a sum then considered ample to meet the needs of the multifa- 
rious operations upon which it was proposed that the Smithsonian 
Institution should enter. In 1846 probably not more than one or two 
universities or learned establishments in America had so large an 
endowment, and it was apparently the idea of Congress that the fund 
was sufficient both for the erection of a building and for the care of the 
collections which would be turned over to it or acquired by the national 
survej's and in other ways. The Museum thus began as an integral 
part of the Institution, coordinate with its librar}-, and was required 
by law to provide for the Government collections which had previ- 
ously accumulated, a duty which the Institution did not see its way 
clear to fulfill until 1858, when Congress began to make small yearly 
appropriations for the purpose. So inadequate, however, were the 

3 



4 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

sums voted, that for m&nj years the slender income of the Institu- 
tion was heavily drawn upon to insure the maintenance of what was 
then called the Smithsonian Museum, and justly enough, since the 
building was paid for out of the Smithson fund, a considerable por- 
tion of the collections were and still are the actual property of the 
Institution, through exploration, gift, and purchase, and at least a 
number of the officials in charge of the collections were employed at 
its expense. 

The title "National Museum,-' first recognized by Congress in 1875, 
came into general use through the display of the Government collec- 
tions at the Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia in 1876. This was 
the first exposition in this country in which the Government partici- 
pated, and the first to make known to vast numbers of the people of 
the United States the existence of national collections at Washington, 
as well as new methods of installing and exhibiting museum materials, 
differing radically from the older cabinets of college or local museums 
which prevailed up to that time. After its close the material brought 
back belonging to the Government, together with the extensive gifts 
made to the United States by private persons and foreign govern- 
ments, forced the erection of a separate building, which brought the 
name "National Museum" into greater prominence. Since that time 
Congress has in the main provided for the maintenance of the Museum, 
but its management remains, b}- the fundamental act, under the 
authority of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, administered 
through their Secretary, who is ex officio the keeper — a form of gov- 
ernment insuring a consistent and uniform policy and a nonpartisan 
administration of its affairs. The greater part of the Smithsonian 
building is still used for museum purposes, and the Institution, as 
well as all the scientific bureaus at Washington, cooperate, both 
through men and material, in enlarging and caring for the national 
collections. 

With the primar}' object of preserving the collections in anthro- 
pology, biology, and geologj^ obtained b}" the Government surveys, 
and of arranging them in a manner convenient for stud}", everj' 
effort is made to complete the representation in all departments of 
science and the arts capable of being illustrated in a material way. 
Extensive series of specimens, selected with reference to their educa- 
tional value and the popular interest they may excite, and bearing 
appropriate labels, are exposed to view in the public halls. The 
duplicate specimens are made up into sets for exchange and for dis- 
tribution to schools and colleges throughout the countr}-. Papers 
descriptive of the collections, both technical and popular, are pub- 
lished for gratuitous circulation to the extent of three or more vol- 
umes yearly; and, finallv, the Museum has come to be regarded as a 
sort of l)uroau of information. ))ein2f constantlv called upon to answer 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 5 

questions relating to every subject with which it might, in the remotest 
degree, be concerned. 

The tirst scientific collection to come into the possession of the Institu- 
tion — and, in fact, it accompanied the bequest — was the small but valu- 
able mineralogical cabinet of James Smithson, the founder, who was 
himself a chemist and mineralogist of repute, and a Fellow of the 
Royal Society of London. Some six years before the Institution had 
been formally established, however, a society was organized in Wash- 
ington under the name of the National Institution, afterwards changed 
to the National Institute, w hich had for its avowed purpose the direc- 
tion of the Smithson bequest and the pursuit of objects in consonance 
with the terms of that foundation. One of these objects was the gather- 
ing of historical and natural-history specimens, from both official and 
private sources, prominent among the former having been the United 
States Exploring Expedition of 1838-1842. Rooms in the Patent Office 
building were secured for the museum of the society, which was vir- 
tually recognized as the appropriate place of deposit for all Govern- 
ment collections held in Washington, and here was actually accumu- 
lated the nucleus of the National Museum. Another important service 
rendered by the society was, as Doctor Goode has said, in the direction 
of educating public opinion "to consider the establishment of such an 
institution worthy of the attention of the Government of the United 
States.*' Failing, however, to secure the public recognition at which 
it aimed, the National Institute became inactive in 1846, though it con- 
tinued in existence. until 1861. The Government collections in its pos- 
session, which were practically in the care of the Commissioner of 
Patents, were turned over to the Smithsonian Institution in 1858. 
Other material directly under the control of the National Institute 
remained at the Patent Office until 1862, and a portion of the historical 
objects were retained there until 1883. 

The discussion of plans for the organization of the Smithsonian 
Institution, which devolved upon its first Board of Regents, led in Janu- 
ary, 1847, to the unanimous adoption of the following resolution 
expressing approval of the nuiseum feature as one of its important 
functions: 

Resoh-ed, That it is the intention of the act of Congress, and in accordance with the 
desigrn of Mr. Smithson, as expressed in his will, that one of the principal modes of 
executing the act and the trust is the accumulation of collections of specimens and 
objects of natural history and of elegant art, and the gradual formation of a library 
of valuable works pertaining to all departments of human knowledge, to the end that 
a copious storehouse of materials of science, literature, and art may be provided, 
which shall excite and diffuse the love of learning among men, and shall assist the 
original investigations and efforts of those who may devote themselves to the pursuit 
of any branch of knowledge.' 



' Report of committee on organization, p. 20. 



6 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

The transfer of Government collections to the Institution was, in 
accordance with the Congressional act of 1846, to be effected "when- 
ever suitable arrangements can be made from time to time for their 
reception." In the absence of any stated limitations as to the time or 
character of arrangements, the date for accepting the obligation rested 
with the Regents, who, while confronted with the mandator}' language 
of the law, were still forced to recognize the inadequacy of the Smith- 
sonian fund for the support of so large an undertaking. The cost of 
the large and elaborate building, designed mainlj- for the accommoda- 
tion of the museum and library, would have drawn heavily upon the 
principal of the fund had not a policy of dela}' prevailed, and thus 
nine 3^ears were allowed to elapse between the laying of the corner 
stone, in 1846, and the completion of the structure. This delay gave 
opportunity for influencing a change in sentiment, so that when, in 
1857, the necessary arrangements became possible, Congress was 
prepared to vote means for building cases, for transferring the speci- 
mens from the Patent Office, and to a certain extent for the care and 
preservation of the collections. The appropriations continued verj^ 
small, however, for many years, during which the Institution was 
obliged to make up the deficit. 

The vast amount of material secured for the Government at the 
close of the Centennial Exhibition of 1876, which impelled the erec- 
tion of a second building, for the exclusive use of the Museum, resulted 
in a larger and more systematic organization. Twenty -five more 3'ears 
have now elapsed, noteworthy for extensive explorations and surveys 
both at home and abroad. Material has been pouring in from these 
in a never-ceasing flow, first filling far beyond their ordinar^^ capacity 
the halls and storerooms of the two large buildings, and then requiring 
to a greater and greater extent each year the use of outside quarters 
for their mere shelter. The main buildings are essentiall}^ fireproof, 
but not so the others, containing collections valued at hundreds of 
thousands of dollars, which, through accident or maliciousness, might 
at any time be destroyed. 

While the collections in the custody of the National Institute 
remained at the Patent Oflice until 1858, material for a museum was, 
in the meantime, being accumulated at the Smithsonian Institution. 
Reference has been made to the cabinet of minerals which had belonged 
to Smithson, unhappih' destroj'ed by fire in 1865. The personal bent 
of Professor Baird, who became the Assistant Secretar}^ of the Insti- 
tution in 1850, was toward the collection of natural-history specimens 
for the purposes of stud}'. AVith the approval of Secretar}- Henry, 
he put into operation plans for the accomplishment of this object, 
which, fostered and encouraged, were soon yielding regular and abun- 
dant returns. Professor Baird's own vacations were spent in field 
researches. Officers of the Armv and Navv and of other branches of 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 7 

the Government service, fishermen, fur traders, private explorers, 
and such powerful organizations as the Hudson Bay Company and the 
Western Union Telegraph Company were enlisted in the cause and 
rendered valuable assistance. The influence exerted by these begin- 
nings has been lasting and widespread, as shown in the extensive nat- 
ural histor}' operations of subsequent national and State surveys, the 
organization of the United States Fish Commission, and the support 
given to scientific collecting by many other liureaus of the Govern- 
ment. 

Having as its first purpose the promotion of scientific research, next 
accepting the custody of the Government and other collections, and 
finally developing broadly along educational lines, the historv of the 
National Museum may, as the late Doctor Goode has pointed out, be 
divided into three epochs, which he describes as follows: 

First, the period from the foundation of the Smithsonian Institution to 1857, dur- 
ing which time specimens were collected solely to serve as materials for research. 
No special effort was made to exhibit them to the public or to utilize them, except 
as a foundation for scientific description and theory. 

Second, the period from 1857, when the institution assumed the custody of the 
*• National Cabinet of Curiosities," to 1876. During this period the Museum became 
a |)lace of deposit for .scientific collections which had already been studied, these col- 
lections, so far as convenient, being exhibited to the public and, so far as practicable, 
made to serve an educational purpose. 

Third, the present period (beginning in the year 1876), in which the Museum has 
undertaken more fully the additional task of gathering collections and exhibiting 
them on account of their value from an educational standpoint. 

During the first period the main object of the Museum was scientific research; in 
the second, the establishment became a museum of record as well as of research; 
while in the third period has been added the idea of public education. The three 
ideas — record, research, and education — cooperative and mutually helpful as they are, 
are essential to the development of every great museum. The National Museum 
endeavors to promote them all. 

It is a mviseum of record, in which are preserved the material foundations of an 
enormous amount of scientific knowledge — the typesof numerous past investigations. 
This is especially the case with those materials that have served as a foundation for 
the reports upon the resources of the United States. 

It is a museum of research, which aims to make its contents serve in the highest 
degree as a stimulus to inquiry and a foundation for scientific investigation. Research 
is necessary in order to identify and group the objects in the most philosophical and 
instructive relations, and its officers are therefore selected for their ability as investi- 
gators, as well as for their trustworthiness as custodians. 

It is an educational museum, through its policy of illustrating by specimens every 
kind of natural object and every manifestation of human thought and activity, of 
displaying descriptive labels adapted to the popular mind, and of distributing its 
pul)lications and its named series of duplicates. 

In these words the objects of the ]Sluseum are so clearly defined and 
the plan laid down is so broad that those who come after have but to 
perfect the details while preserving that unity of interests Avhich is 
requisite if the structure as a whole shall forever prove worthj' of its 
founders and of this great nation. 



8 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

AS A MUSEUM OF RECORD. 

In its capacit}'^ of a museum of record, the growth of the National 
Museum has been unprecedented, due mainly to the rapid exploration 
and development of a rich and extensive country, under the liberal 
and progressive policy of the Government, whose inquiries into new 
regions and into new fields have been pushed without stint. Scientific 
institutions everj^where, foreign governments and individuals have 
likewise contributed abundant stores of great value, and a small fund 
in recent j^ears has permitted of some purchases to supph" desiderata. 
The richness of the collections has also been much increased through 
the exchange of duplicate specimens with other similar establishments. 

The principal sources of the collections may be briefl}' summarized 
as follows: 

1. The explorations carried on more or less directly under the 
auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, or by the Institution in 
connection with educational institutions or commercial establish- 
ments, and the efforts, since 1850, of its officers and correspond- 
ents toward the accumulation of natural history and anthropological 
material. 

2. The United States Exploring Expedition around the world 
from 1838 to 1812, the North Pacific or Perry Exploring Expedition 
from 1853 to 1856, and many subsequent naval expeditions down 
to and including the recent operations in West Indian and Phil- 
ippine waters. 

3. The activities of members of the United States diplomatic 
and consular service abroad. 

4. The Government surveys at home, such as the Pacific Rail- 
road survey, the Mexican and Canadian boundary surveys, and the 
surveys carried on by the Engineer Corps of the United States 
Army; and the activities of officers of the Signal Corps, and other 
branches of the Army stationed in remote regions. 

5. The explorations of the United States Geological Survey, 
the United States Fish Commission, the Department of Agricul- 
ture, the Bureau of American Ethnology of the Smithsonian 
Institution, and other scientific branches of the Government. 

(). Donations and purchases in connection with the several expo- 
sitions at home and abroad in which the Museum or Fish Commission 
have participated, among these having been the Centennial Exhi- 
bition at Philadelphia in 1876, the international fisheries exhibitions 
at Berlin in 1880 and at London in 1883, the New Orleans Cotton 
Centennial Exposition in 1881 and 1885, the Cincinnati Exposition 
of 1888, the World's Columbian Exposition at Chicago in 1893, and 
the expositions at Atlanta in 1895, at Nashville in 1897, and at 
Omaha in 1898. The returns from the Philadelphia Exhibition 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 9 

were of greatest extent, comprising, besides the collections dis- 
played by the United States in illustration of the animal and 
mineral resources, the fisheries and tlie ethnology of the native 
races of the country, valuable gifts from the thirty foreign gov- 
ernments which participated, as well as the industrial collections 
of numerous manufacturing and cojnmercial houses of EuroDe and 
America. 

7. Exchanges with foreign and domestic museums. 

Immediately preceding the Centennial Exhibition of 1870, when the 
collections were entirely provided for in the Smithsonian building, 
the number of entries of specimens' in the Museum record books was 
about 235,000. In 188^1, when the additional room afforded by the 
new building gave opportunity for taking a provisional census of the 
large accessions received from Philadelphia, and from other sources, 
the number had grown to 1,471,000. It has gone on steadil}' increas- 
ing every year, and now, at the close of 1900, the number of specimens 
is in excess of 4,800,000. 

While these figures convey no impression of the bulk of the collec- 
tions, when it is considered that in 1883 all of the space in both build- 
ings was completely filled, and in fact was so overcrowded that a third 
building was already being asked of Congress, some conception may 
be had of the conditions now existing. The storerooms are packed to 
their utmost capacity, making it difficult to gain access to the speci- 
mens or to provide adequately for their safety. For many 3"ears most 
of the objects received have had to be stored in outside and unsafe 
structures where they are mainly piled up in the original packing 
boxes, and where has already accumulated much more than enough 
material of great intrinsic and scientific value to fill a larger building 
than that now occupied by the main collections. 

AS A MUSEUM OF RESEARCH. 

In order to permit of their examination and study, as provided in 
the act of establishment, the collections of the Museum are, to the 
extent of its accommodations, arranged systematical!}^ and in a manner 
convenient for reference. Access to the reserve or stud}- series, as 
they are called, consisting of the main body of the collections and as 
complete in all the groups as" the accessions have made possible, is 
given to all properly qualified persons engaged in original research. 
Advantage of the opportunity thus afforded is widely availed of, the 
Museum being visited every year by many investigators, some of 
world-wide distinction, coming from the scientific centers of European 
and other foreign countries as well as from all parts of the United 
States. Material is occasionally sent out to representatives of other 



10 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

museums or laboratories liaving the means of providing for its safe- 
keeping, this being done more particularly when they are engaged to 
■work up special subjects or when they desire to use the material for 
comparison in connection with their own collections. 

Being charged primarily with the custodianship of its collections, 
the members of the scientific staff of the National Museum have com- 
paratively little time during office hours for advancing knowledge, 
though they are mostly well qualified for such work, being selected 
with special reference to their ability to identif}' and classify the speci- 
mens under their care in accordance with the most advanced researches. 
The fact, however, that many papers descriptive of the collections are 
produced each year is indicative of the industry which prevails among 
the staff and of the extent to which the hours of work are prolonged. 

Among the honorar}^ oflicers having their laboratories at the Museum 
are a number of assistants employed by other scientific bureaus to con- 
duct investigations on material kept here in their charge, and in 
whose results the Museum shares. 

Many collections have, from time to time, been transferred by the 
Geological Survey, the Fish Commission, the Department of Agricul- 
ture, and other branches of the Government to the custody of the 
Museum in advance of their final working up, in order to provide for 
their safe storage and to secure the better facilities for study here 
afforded. Under this arrangement the amount of research work 
carried on in the Museum building has been greatly increased. 

Though having little means to expend for field work, members of 
the Museum staff' are occasionally given opportunities to participate in 
the explorations of other Government bureaus or of private expedi- 
tions, in connection with which special researches may be carried on, 
though the chief advantage results from the acquisition of new and 
valuable material and a knowledge of the conditions under which it 
occurred. 

AS AN EDUCATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The educational side of the Museum consists in the main of an exhi- 
bition of all the classes of objects which it represents, so labeled that 
the public may be instructed as bj^ an encyclopedia cut apart and 
spread out*, except that its illustrations are real and material things. 
Conceding all the space required, the principal difficulty incident to 
the proper installation of such a collection is in the selection of its 
parts so that wdiile visitors may have placed before them all that is 
genuinely essential, thej'' shall not be overburdened or confused with 
details. With the advance in museum methods, moreover, the objects 
on displa}' are being grouped to a greater and greater extent, to 
show relationships, with, whenever possible, some added notion of 
their natural environment, so that at a glance the visitor ma}^ better 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 11 

comprehend their true character and significance. In this direction 
the National Museum lias been making- conspicuous progress, and 
probably now takes the lead. 

'No museum administrator had a better understanding of the public 
needs than the late Doctor Goode, and none labored more earnesti}' and 
conscientiously than he to make this a museum for, as well as of, the 
people. His assistants were relied upon to arrange and maintain the 
study series in a manner acceptable to the specialist, l)ut the interests 
of the pul)lic were retained in his own immediate charge. His mind 
was ever occupied in devising ways for so presenting the features of 
nature and the thoughts and activities of mankind that the visitor, by 
the very force of his surroundings, was bound to receive and carrj'' 
with him some definite impression, some new bit of knowledge. 

Doctor Goode's labors in this field ranged from the planning of the 
general scheme to the most minute details of case architecture and 
fittings. His oflUcial connection with nearly all the important exposi- 
tions of the past quarter of a century and his exhaustive studies of all 
the principal museums of Europe and the United States gave him 
exceptional opportunities for observation and experiment. Though a 
young man when he died, none other had acquired so ripe an expe- 
rience and none is more worthy of being followed. 

In this, as in every other activity of a live organization, change and 
improvement are constant. The receipt of new material will, it is to 
be expected, continue unceasinglj% and ever}- year something must 
arrive in Avhich the public has a, right to share. During the past five 
years the progress made in the installation of the exhibition series has 
been especially noteworthj^, and now for the first time every hall 
designed for public use is permanently opened, though not one is 
above addition or improvement, and in some the arrangement is 
entirely provisional. 

An incidental, though very popular, educational feature of the 
Museum, having for its purpose the promotion of scientific teaching 
throughout the country, has been the distribution to schools and col- 
leges of its duplicate specimens, properly identified and labeled, and 
put up in carefully selected sets. Inadequate means have prevented 
this measure from being carried out on the scale which the resources 
of the Museum would admit of, as it requires the working over of 
entire collections before the reserve and duplicate series can be sepa- 
rated, and the labeling and packing take much time. Man}^ hundreds 
of these sets have been given away, but none have been prepared 
recently, and the few remaining on hand at the beginning of the vear 
have now been disposed of. 

Scarceh' a year passes that some exposition, either at home or 
abroad, is not occupying the attention of the Museum, and through 
this means its existence and aims are being brought constantly and 



12 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

prominentl}' before the public. These expositions have of late fol- 
lowed one another so closely and have required so extensive prepara- 
tion as to interfere greatly with the legitimate work of the Museum, 
but the practice of introducing new and varied features, of showing a 
fresh series of objects or improved groupings in coimection with each 
one, insures a substantial gain, as the collections are returned to Wash- 
ington, besides fultilling the important function of making museum 
methods known to the people of the United States and stimulating the 
growth of museums in many quarters. 

The publications of the Museum may be classed, at least in a gen- 
eral waj^ as belonging to its educational side, though they are mainly 
technical, and in that respect most useful to the investigator. They 
spread the work of the Museum abroad and make known the nature 
and extent of its collections. The Annual Report was first printed as 
a separate volume of the Smithsonian Report in 1884, and has just 
reached its seventeenth volume. Besides the administrative part, it has 
consisted mainly of semipopular papers on interesting portions of the 
collection. Of the Proceedings, made up of technical papers of small 
to moderate size, twenty-one volumes have been issued and another is 
in press. The Bulletins, reserved chiefly for the larger and more 
exhaustive scientific papers, number forty-nine, of which the last one 
printed (Bulletin 17), a monograph of the fishes of North and Middle 
America, is in four parts, completed near the close of the year. 

PRESSING NEEDS OF THE MUSEUTVI. 

By 1883, only two years after possession had been taken of the 
present Museum building, its capacity was found to be wholly insuffi- 
cient, and an estimate for a second structure of even larger size was 
at once submitted to Congress. In his report for 1881, Doctor Goode 
explained that it was a serious problem where to store the incoming 
collections, leaving entirely out of consideration the question of their 
display. The needs in this direction, always increasing, have been 
urged in every subsequent report, but so far without efl^'ective result. 
The Senate voted $500,000 for a new building in 1888, and again in 
1890, 1892, and 1896, but all these measures failed of action in the 
House. 

The Museum has now reached a crisis in its histor}^ which must be 
frankly met. It can no longer comply with the mandates of Congress 
imposed upon it by the act of 1846 establishing the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution. The two buildings which it occupies are overcrowded to the 
extent that the collections they contain can only in part be arranged 
and classified so as to permit of their examination as required by 
law, and many of the collections are so inaccessible as to endanger 
their very safety. Many hundreds of boxes, to a large extent turned 
over by the Government surveys and filled with material valued at 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 13 

hundreds of thousands of dollars, are stacked up in frame and cheaply 
constructed brick ])uildings. liable at any time to destruction l)y tire. 
There is no place where this material, composino- fully one-half of the 
Museum's possessions, can be unpacked and spread out for study or 
reference, while the portion suitable for exhibition would alone more 
than till another structure as large as the present Museum building. 

For the existence of this condition neither the National Museum nor 
the Smithsonian Institution can be held responsible. The Institution 
was made the custodian of all collections belonging to the Government 
in the Congressional act providing for and thus preceding its organi- 
zation. It has fultilled the oldigation conscientiously and in accord- 
ance with the spirit of the law, even when its own funds have had to 
be drawn upon. It has shown that the trust was not misplaced, and 
in the face of obstacles which have at times seemed insurmountable 
has given its museum feature a standing not excelled in any country 
in the world, though in accommodations and display its position is 
decidedly inferior to many. 

A national museum is not of the nature of a project which may 
await the pleasure of summary action. Its material accumidates with 
the exploration and development of the country — in the case of the 
United States mainl}' through (Congressional direction — and if the 
material collected by this lueans be destroyed or otherwise disposed 
of, the most of it can only be replaced, if at all, at greatly increased 
cost. For man}' 3'ears this country has been supporting extensive 
investigations under authority of Congress. Prominent among the 
bureaus whose work requires the collecting of specimens and their 
transfer to Washington for purposes of study are the Geological Sur- 
rey, the Fish Commission, the Biological Survey and the divisions of 
Entomology and Botany of the Department of Agriculture, and the 
Bureau of American Ethnology. A large amount of material has 
reached Washington in the past, and will certainly continue to do so, 
from other Government sources, such as Army and Navy expeditions, 
representatives abroad of the Department of State, the Revenue- 
Marine Service, and the Coast and Geodetic Survey. These bureaus 
depend by law upon the National Museum for the care of their collec- 
tions. Having for the most part Aery inadequate accommodations in 
their own buildings, much of their material is turned over as soon as 
received in Washington, and thus the Museum is called upon, very 
appropriately, to make greater provision for the handling and storing 
of specimens than is generally supposed. This unworked material has, 
in one sense, even greater value than that which has been determined 
and described, as its study is expected to develop facts 3'et undis- 
covered, and the responsibility for its safe-keeping is increased 
accordingly. 

The demand for additional space and for new cases, always inct ssant, 



14 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

has reached a stage where the helplessness of the authorities to meet 
it is pathetic. Galleries have been built in some of the Museum halls. 
Their capacit}' has not sufficed to keep pace with the current demands 
of the 3'ears in which the}^ were constructed, and collection after col- 
lection has been carted away to one of the outside buildings. These 
now are all practically filled, and next year a new one must be leased, 
or accessions turned away, or the exhibition halls transformed into 
storehouses. 

On its educational side there is equal cause for complaint. The 
public demands to see more than is now placed before it, and what is 
already on display is so closely crowded as to be difficult of inspection. 
As previousl}^ explained, there is much material in storage which 
should be put on exhibition. In fact, a very large share of the collec- 
tions can be best looked after and protected in the exposed cases of 
the open halls. With its great resources, exceeding those of any 
State, municipal, or private establishment, the Government is under 
a moral obligation to foster and promote the educational feature of 
the Museum to the fullest extent possible. Congress has acknowl- 
edged this obligation from the very start, and has, perhaps, done more 
in support of this object than of any other. It is the one, moreover, 
which requires the most space and most expensive furnishings — the 
largest item in the construction of a new building. 

Laboratories of much larger size than the existing ones are required 
in all the departments. This is not alone in the interest of the work 
carried on by employees of the Museum. Better accommodations are 
needed for the assistants from other scientific bureaus who are called 
here to consult the collections, and who could to some extent carry on 
their investigations much more advantageousl}^ at the Museum than 
in their own buildings were proper facilities afl'orded them. The 
wants of scientific men from other parts of the country and from 
abroad, who turn to the national collections for materials for their 
study, and many of whom visit Washington every year, have also to 
be considered and provided for. 

And finally, the shops where cases are made, where paint is stored 
and mixed, where the taxidermy, modeling, and coarser preparatory 
work is done, now distributed among as many outside buildings, 
require to be brought together in the interest of economy and of 
better administration. 

As a result of its extraordinary growth under the ver}^ inadequate 
provisions made for its maintenance, the National Museum has been 
obliged to adapt itself to circumstances, to scatter its belongings and 
its work, so that to-da}'^ its form and its administration are conditioned 
by the restrictions under which it labors and not in accordance with 
the best ideals, in the realization of many of which it was originally 
a pioneer. The first and most urgent need is a new building, large. 



EEPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 15 

dignified, and accessible, with extensive halls and ample accommodations 
for its collections and activities. Such a house provided, it may take 
its proper place among the great museums of the world. The inter- 
ests of the Government and of research will be promoted, the public 
will secure its proper measure of advantages, educational establish- 
ments throughout the country will be benefited, and a museum worthy 
of the generous people all over the United States who have lavished 
gifts upon it, of the patient toil of the man}" scientific men who have 
given it the best years of their lives, often without hope of reward, 
and of this great, prosperous, and enlightened nation will grace the 
national capital. 

IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS AND WORK OF THE YEAR. 

The additions to the collections in the various departments aggrega- 
ted considerably over 200,000 objects. The most important accession 
was the so-called Marsh collection of fossil vertebrates received from 
the United States Geological Survey. Its contents can not as yet be 
fully determined, as the matrix still hides many of the specimens, but the 
latter range from small teeth to more or less perfect skeletons weigh- 
ing from 500 to 2,000 pounds apiece. The total weight of the collection 
is over 80 tons, and its value, at a rough estimate, has been placed at 
not less than $150,000. Another noteworthy acquisition b}" the Depart- 
ment of Geology was the collection of minerals belonging to the late 
Prof. C. U. Shepard, consisting of over 5,000 specimens, among which 
are many rareties and much of historical value, including a large num- 
ber of Professor Shepard's types. The meteorite collection, which has- 
been increased to 742 specimens, now ranks among the largest in the 
world, while in the field of paleobotany the National Museum has 
become the center of S3'stematic work. 

Dr. William L. Abbott, in continuation of many past favors, has con- 
tributed nearly 1,200 specimens of mammals, birds, and batrachians, 
besides a large quantity of material in other groups, the results of his 
explorations among the islands of the China Sea, and in Trong, Lower 
Siam, and Singapore. Other large and valuable additions have been 
the birds, mollusks, insects, and plants of the E. H. Harriman Alaskan 
Expedition; the unique collection of spiders belonging to the late Dr. 
George Marx; many birds from Hawaii and Colombia; large numbers 
of bats from the West Indian region; and fishes from both sides of 
the Pacific Ocean. 

The additions to the herbarium numbered over 27,000 specimens, 
mainly from the Southern and Western States, Alaska, Mexico, and 
Europe. 

In anthropology over 33,716 objects Avere received, among them 
many of great scientific and historical value. A large number of these 



16 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

were obtained through the instrumentality of the Bureau of American 
Ethnolog}'. 

Following are some of the more important changes in connection 
with the exhibition series: The galler}' in the northeast court has been 
newly furnished with ebonized cases of elegant design, in which the 
collection of ceramics, together with other works in glass, lacquer, 
and metal, has been installed with very effective results. The Indian 
basketr}' collection, one of the finest now in existence, has been 
arranged, with the ethnological exhibits from Latin America, in the 
corresponding gallery of the northwest court. The display in the hall 
containing the Catlin paintings and the Indian groups has been as 
nearly completed as the material on hand permits, while the medical 
exhibit has been entirelv revised, and many additions and readjust- 
ments have been made in the Hall of History. 

The south or Mammal Hall has been partly refitted with large cases, 
and its contents rearranged, the American species being retained on 
the floor, while those from other countries have been transferred to 
the new gallery above. In this hall are displaj'ed, in several groups, 
some of the finest examples of taxidermic work ever produced. The 
floor space of the south east range has been entirely given over to the 
exhibition of fishes, reptiles, and batrachians, and the reorganization 
of the bird collection in the Smithsonian building, chiefly through a 
reduction in the number of specimens displa3^ed, has been nearly 
finished. The lighting by electricity of the cases in the central quad- 
rangle of the latter hall, containing bright-plumaged birds, has resulted 
satisfactorily, bringing into use what has practically been a large waste 
space. 

The systematic exhibition series in practical geology, occupying the 
gallerj" of the southwest court, has been essentialh'^ completed. 
Important changes have been made in the collections illustrating the 
building stones and mineral resources of the United States, and good 
progress is to be noted in the installation of invertebrate fossils. Sev- 
eral striking special exhibits of geological structure and phenomena 
have also been added. 

The total number of persons who visited the exhibition halls during 
the year was 225,440 for the Museum building and 133,147 for the 
Smithsonian building, an average daily attendance of 720 at the former 
and of 425 at the latter. 

The principal researches completed, or in which marked progress 
was made during the year by assistants of the Museum, have related 
to mammals, birds, insects, mollusks, crustaceans, plants, and certain 
branches of ethnology and geology. Reference should especially be 
made to a monograph by Mr. Robert Ridgway on the Birds of North 
and Middle America, on which he has been engaged foi" several j'ears. 
The first volume is nearly ready for printing, and several additional 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 17 

volumes will be required to complete the work. Specimens in greater 
or less number have been sent for study to the representatives of over 
twenty prominent museums and universities in different parts of the 
United States. 

More of the Museum staff than usual were in the field, the duration 
of their absence from Washington varying from two or three weeks 
to as many months. Mr. William H. Dall, Mr. Robert Kidgway, 
Dr. C. Hart Merriam, and Mr. F, V. Coville accompanied the Harri- 
man Alaskan Expedition. Mr. Leonhard Stejneger, Dr. Charles W. 
Richmond, Mr. William Palmer, and Mr. J. H. Riley visited Cuba 
and Porto Rico in the interest of the Pan-American Exposition. The 
whale fishery of Newfoundland was investigated by Dr. Frederick W. 
True, and the anthropology of Cuba and Jamaica by Mr. William H. 
Holmes. Collections of plants were made in Mexico by Dr. J. N. 
Rose and Dr. Walter Hough; of vertebrates in Venezuela by Mr. 
Marcus W. Lyon, jr.; of fishes in the Vineyard Sound region of 
Massachusetts by Mr. Barton A. Bean, and of fossils in Wyoming by 
Mr. Charles Schuchert and Dr. Lester F. Ward. 

From the appropriation of $300,000 made by Congress for the Gov- 
ernment exhibit at the Pan-American Exposition of 1901 $50,000 
have been allotted to the use of the Smithsonian Institution and its 
bureaus. Before the close of the year the plans for the display by 
the Museum had been practicall}'^ settled, and considerable progress 
had been made in bringing the necessary collections together and in 
starting the work of preparing them. 

NAT MUS 1900 2 



EEPORTS OF HEAD CUBATORS. 



REPORT OX THE I^EPARTMEXT OK ANTHROPOLOGY B\ William H.Holmes. 

REPORT OX THE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY By Frederick W. True. 

REPORT OX THE DEPARTMENT OF GEOLCXiY Bj- George P. Merrill. 



19 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY 
FOR THE YEAR 1899-1900. 

By "William H. Holmes, 
Head Curator. 

ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL. 

The organization of the department has remained practically un- 
changed during the year. 

Owing to the lack of space in the exhibition halls, the Division of 
Somatology and several sections are not represented in the exhibition 
series, and numerous other branches arc but meagerly shown. 

The onh' change made in the personnel of the anthropological staff 
was the assignment of Mr. Paul Beck with, of the clerical force, to 
the duties of aid in the Division of History and Biography. Mr. Beck- 
with's services are also utilized in the Section of Coins and Medals. 

The death of Mr. A. Zeno Shindler, a preparator in the department, 
occurred during the j^ear. Mr. Shindler had been attached to the 
Smithsonian Institution and Museimi for twenty-tive years or more, 
doing excellent service as a painter of ethnological portraits and in 
coloring casts in the Department of Biology as well as that of 
Anthropology. 

DEPARTMENT OFFICES. 

Durmg previous years the offices occupied bv members of the staff 
of the department were much scattered and, in the main, not conve- 
niently situated with respect to the exhibition halls. Recently, how- 
ever, the roomy west portal of the Museum building has been remodeled 
as an office for the head curator, while the adjoining rooms on the 
north and south have been fitted up as department laboratories and 
utilized largely for receiving and distributing collections. The office 
of the curator of the Division of Ethnology connects with this suite 
on the south, and the department recorder occupies a room on the 
north. On the floor above are five small rooms, occupied b}'^ assistant 
curators, aids, and preparators. Rooms requiring it have been con- 
nected by means of speaking tubes, and a telephone has been intro- 
duced into one of the laboratories, greatly facilitating the transaction 
of business. All of these rooms have been renovated and repaired 
during the year. The several honorary members of the staff occupy, 

21 



22 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 19(»{). 



of necessit}', offices at points convenient to the work in which they are 
primarily engaged. A sectional library has been established in the 
office of the head curator, which is intended to be supplied with such 
general reference works as ma}' not be available for the several 
divisions and sections. 

EXHIBITION (ASES. 

Little progress was made during the year in the direction of 
increased or improved facilities for installation. The handsome ebon- 
ized w^all case, 64 feet in length and 9 feet in height, built in the gal- 
lery of the northeast court during the previous year, has been titted 
up with shelving, and the ceramic collections, together with numerous 
works in glass, lacquer, and metal, have been installed in it. This 
case, built b}^ the Museum mechanics, is probably not surpassed any- 
where for beautj^, convenience, and mechanical perfection. Much 
attention has been given to the reassemblage and fitting up of cases 
alread}' in use, and the furniture of the department presents a much 
more creditable appearance than at any previous period. 



ACCESSIONS. 



Accessions to the collections of the department have been of average 
number and importance. The following statistical statement gives 
the accessions by divisions and sections: 



1. 



Division of Ethnology 

2. Division of Technology 

3. Division of Prehistoric Archaeology. 

4. Division of American History 

5. Division of Religions 

6. Division of Somatology 

7. Section of Graphic Arts 

8. Section of Ceramics 

9. Section of Photography ..'. 

10. Section of Music 



Permanent acces- 
sions. 



Number. 



Number 
of speci- 
mens. 



2,337 
121 

1,513 
323 

1 



Temporary acces- 
sions. 



Number 
of speci- 
mens. 



50 
35 

28, 426 

430 

13 



The manner of acquirement is indicated in the following ta))h^: 



By gift 

By collection 

By purchase 

By manufacture 

By Smithsonian and govern men till deposits. 

By temporary deposit 

By exchange 



Number 
of acces- 
sions. 


Number 
of speci- 
mens. 


175 


2, 089 


4 


375 


40 


1.361 


9 


21 


9 


147 


•09 


29, 285 


15 


438 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 23 

IMPORTANT ACCESSIONS. 

A considerable number of colleotions acquired during the year are 
worthy of special mention, as follows: 

Bi/ gift. — 1. Ethnological material from the Mala}^ Archipelago, 
donated by Dr. William L. Abbott; 67 specimens. 

2. Two ancient stone chairs from P>uador, pr3sented ^^\ Hon. Periy 
M. de Leon, United States consul-general at Guayaquil. These valu- 
able specimens were discovered about thirty years ago as the result of 
a freshet. The waters uncovered what appeared to be an ancient 
council chaml)er in which had been placed a large stone table sur- 
rounded by numerous chairs. 

8. A nuunmy from the valley of Cuzco, Peru, presented by Dr. 
C. H. Russell, surgeon U. S. 8. NevxirJi'. 

•i. The Ramage printing press, presented 1)}" Barnhart Bros. & 
Spindler, of Chicago, 111. This press marks the change in the hand 
press from wood construction to iron. It is said to have been made 
in 1775. 

5. A series of 32 insulated electrical conductors, presented V)y the 
American Electrical Works, of Providence, R. I. 

6. Two typewriting machines, presented hy the Hammond Type- 
writer Company, New York. One of these machines is of the model 
first made b}' the company, in ISS-i, and the other is of the latest st^de, 
made in 1900. 

7. Collection of weapons of Australian aborigines; 33 specimens; 
presented by Hon. F. W. Goding, United States consul at Newcastle, 
New South Wales. 

8. Two antique bronze cannon from Manila, presented by Admiral 
George Dewey, United States Navy. 

9. United States regulation sword used by Gen. J. B. McPherson 
throughout the civil war, presented by Mr. D. W. Wood. 

10. Wedding dress of Mrs. Joseph Little, of Hagerstown. Md., 
June 17, 1784; presented by Mrs. S. H. Young. 

11. Collection of postage stamps used in the Philippine Islands at 
the time of American occupation, presented b}- Mr. Charles Doran. 

By collection. — 1. Archaeological and historical relics from Cuba and 
Jamaica, by Mr. W. H. Holmes; 200 specimens. 

2. Ethnological and arch^ological objects from Mexico and Arizona, 
by Dr. Walter Hough; 153 specimens. 

3. Ethnological collections from the Pacific Islands, by Mr. C. H. 
Townsend and Mr. H. F. Moore of the Alhatross expedition of 
1899-1900; 213 specimens (partial returns). 

1. Collection of Indian skulls and ethnological materials from Tierra 
del Fuego and Patagonia, by Prof. J. B. Hatcher; 37 specimens. 

By parclume. — 1. Collection of ethnological specimens from the 
Kongo Valley, Africa, from the Rev. S. P. Verner; 275 specimens. 



24 REPORT OB^ NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900, 

2. Copper implements from an ancient intei*ment in Houghton 
County, Mich., throug-h the Bureau of Ethnology, from Mr. Isaac 
Otis, Westburg. N. Y. ; i specimens. 

3. Ancient stone implements from the West Indian Islands; 274 
specimens; through the Bureau of Ethnology; from Mr. Louis Guesde, 
of Pointe a Pitre, Guadeloupe Island. 

4. Three antique printing presses, from Mr. John A. Lant, Tarry- 
town, N. Y. 

5. Collection of small arms, from Col. W. C. Dodge. Washington 
City; 57 specimens. 

6. Collection of implements, etc., from an Illinois mound, through 
the Bureau of Ethnology, from Mr. C. E. Clifton, Washington City; 
140 specimens. 

7. Collection of Washoe Indian baskets; 47 specimens, through the 
Bureau of Ethnolog}^, from Mr. Eugene Mead, Grand Rapids, Mich. 

8. Ethnological specimens from the tribes of Angola, Africa; 59 
specimens; from Rev. W. P. Dodson, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Permanent deposit. — 1. Historical collections relating to the Span- 
ish-American war, cannon, small arms, uniforms, etc. : 66 specimens, 
from the United States Navy Department. 

2. Historical flags; 33 specimens, from the Smithsonian Institution. 
(Gift of Library of Congress.) 

3. Personal relics of Gen. Thomas Swords; 48 specimens, from the 
Smithsonian Institution. (Gift of Miss E. H. Cotheal.) 

Loans from private sources. — 1. Collection of vases, bv Grueby 
Faience Company, Boston, Mass. ; 12 specimens. 

2. Collection of important objects, historical and personal, by Admi- 
ral George Dewey, United States Navy; 80 specimens. 

3. Historical collections by the societies of Colonial Dames (53 speci- 
mens) and Daughters of the American Revolution (18 specimens). 

4. Collection of books and bindings, b}" Miss E. R. Scidmore; 23 
specimens. 

5. Collection of stone implements from Georgia, by Dr. Roland 
Steiner; 18,907 specimens. 

6. Autograph letters of persons prominent in the civil war; 103 
specimens; by Mrs. L. O. Mason. 

7. Militarj^ and personal relics of the Ord family; 28 specimens; by 
Lieut. James T. Ord. 

CARE OF COLLECTIONS. 

During the past year, and during the two preceding years as well, 
there was a constant shifting and reshif ting of the collections, resulting 
from reclassification and the demand of additional material for instal- 
lation. Instructive and valuable specimens have been selected and 
placed on exhibition and less important material has been placed in 



REPORT <»F ASSISTANT SECRP:TARY. 25 

storage. Tl'e effort has been to constantlj'^ improve the condition and 
enhance the usefuhies.s of the collections. The ta.sk of destroying- 
moths and other injurious insects has been faithfulh' performed by 
jSIr. Joseph Palmer, preparator, who is able to report the rare occur- 
rence of these pests among the collections of the department. The 
work of poisoning is begun at once upon the arrival of specimens and 
is generally completed before assignment is made to the divisions and 
sections. The extensive basketry collection has been thoroughly 
cleaned and treated with preservatives, and other articles requiring it 
have been treated in like manner. Poisoned specimens are specially 
tagged or marked, and a card catalogue recording dates and kind of 
treatment is kept. 

STORAGE. 

A great body of material belonging to the collection is in storage 
in the Smithsonian Institution, in the Museum, and in three outbuild- 
ings. During the year the head curator undertook the task of exam- 
ining all of this storage material, the object being to determine its 
nature and availability for exhibition. He was made chairman of a com- 
mittee by the executive curator and was instructed to investigate the 
entire storage material of the Museum. A force of from six to ten 
men was employed for six weeks in this work. The storage material 
has been accumulating for twenty -live years without full separation of 
the various classes of collections and with but meager records. The 
multitude of crates, boxes, and uncased objects was gotten out and 
classified. The anthropological property was segregated by divisions 
and sections, and a card catalogue was made enumerating briefly the 
contents of each package. The same information was placed upon the 
packages which are so arranged that the labels are visible and so they 
can be removed with a minimum of labor. Up to date the catalogue 
contains 711 cards. In addition, there is a large body of collections 
mounted in glass covered unit boxes for exposition use. This mate^'ial 
is now stacked in the storage buildings. 

(CATALOGUING. 

The routine for the reception, distribution, and cataloguing of col- 
lections is given in last year's report. The work of the head curator's 
office and of each division and section has been conducted accoi'ding to 
the plan laid down in that report, and the results seem to be entirely 
satisfactory. In writing the present report the head curator has 
assembled on his desk the following data: The department's books 
recording accessions, permanent and temporary, for the year; the card 
catalogue of accessions; the card catalogue of collections for the year 
from all the divisions and sections; the card catalogue of storage; the 
card catalogue of exchanges; the card catalogue of articles poisoned 



26 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

or otherwise treated, and a card catalogue of articles, such as models 
and casts, made for the Museum by preparators or other persons 
emploj'cd by the Museum. At the same time a detailed report of the 
operations of each division and section for the 3'ear is in the hands of 
the head curator, who is able, through these various sources of infor- 
mation, to understand and summarize the work of the year with much 
ease and satisfaction. 

INSTALLATKJX. 

The year has witnessed very decided progress in the work of instal- 
lation, the divisions of Ethnology, Technology, History, and ]Medicine, 
and the sections of Graphic Arts and Ceramics having made most 
gratifying headway. Prof. O. T. Mason reports, for the Division of 
Ethnology, that the cases in the west north range are so fully installed 
and labeled that this room ma}^ be considered to fall little short of 
completion. During the year the force of the division has been partly 
engaged in installing collections in the gallery' of the northwest court. 
On the east side of this galler}' there are cases containing typical 
exhibits of basketry from all parts of the world. On the north side 
the series of rail cases shows the types of California basketry, while 
in the wall cases a series of baskets is shown representing various 
tribes from British Columbia to Mexico. On the south and west 
sides of this gallery are exhibits of ethnological materials of Latin 
America, beginning with Sonora on the north and ending with Tierra 
del Fuego on the south. 

The honorary curator of the Division of Mechanical Technology, 
Dr. J. E. Watkins, reports that important improvements in the 
installation of the Section of Land Transportation have been made. 
The base and iron rail of the locomotive "John Bull"' have been com- 
pleted. The ox cart from New Mexico and the Red River cart have 
been placed on a new mahogany bsise and installed with other wheeled 
vehicles. The large wooden models of the locomotives "Tom Thumb" 
and ''Arabian" have been removed to storage, and small models are 
being made to take their place in the exhibit. The original driving 
wheels of the locomotives "John Bull" and "De Witt Clinton" and 
several other antique car wheels have been permanentlj^ installed on 
the piers within the hall. The boiler of the locomotive "Stour- 
bridge Lion " has been fitted with wooden axles and mounted on its 
wheels. It is hoped that additional parts of this locomotive may be 
secured, so that it maj^, in time, be restored to approximate!}^ its origi- 
nal condition. 

The curator of the Division of Prehistoric Archseology, Dr. Thomas 
Wilson, mentions in his report the very obvious fact that the exhibi- 
tion cases of the division are overcrowded. With ever}' accession of 
importance he is compelled to condense the exhibits in order to make 



I 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 27 

room. During" the 3"ear the work of segregating- various exhibition 
units has been oontiiuied, l)ut it is not deemed advisa])le to begin the 
radical change of installation so manifestly called for until extensive 
improvements are made in the hall. 

Mr. A. H. Clark, honorary custodian of the Section of American 
History, states that vei'v satisfactory progress has been made in the 
care of the collections of that section. Additional cases have been 
introduced into the north hall and the rotunda, and various rearrange- 
ments of cases and exhil)its have been made. The contents of man}' 
cases have been reclassified and installation has been perfected. The 
superb collection of personal relics of Admiral George Dewey, depos- 
ited during the year, has been installed in eases near the Museum 
entrance. Daring the year it has been necessary to send numerous 
exhibits to storage. Increased exhibition room for this section is 
very much needed. 

A complete reinstallation of the exhibits included in the Division of 
Medicine has been made during the year by the honorary- curator, 
Medical Director J. M. Flint, United States Navy. The cases have 
been arranged in alcove style, thus giving a passageway of proper 
width along the gallery. Included with the collections of this division 
are two cases containing exhibits designed to illustrate the composi- 
tion of the human body. 

Noteworthy improvements have been made in the installation of the 
Section of Graphic Arts. Mr. Paul Brockett has conducted this work 
under the immediate supervision of the head curator. Two cases have 
been added, one containing series of exhibits illustrating the history 
of the book, and the other, examples of modern binding; the latter 
exhibit is lent b}^ Miss E. R. Scidmore. 

The Section of Ceramics has been assigned to the northeast court 
gallery, which has been fitted up with excellent cases. Early in the 
year the collections of ceramics, glass, lacquer, bronze, etc., Avere 
installed here by the head curator, the arrangement being primarily 
by countries and secondarily by varieties or factories. 

LABELING. 

The important work of labeling the collections of the department is 
progressing satisfactorily. The system of case labeling adopted dur- 
ing the preceding year, and descril)ed in the report for that year, has 
been successfully applied, and many labtds are already in place. The 
printing of labels for several halls is now going forward, and minor 
labels have been prepared in large numbers by the various curators. 
As soon as the W'Ork of labeling is reasonably complete and the instal- 
lation satisfactory, it is planned to prepare a key or guide to the col- 
lections of the department. 



28 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

FIELD WORK. 

The department has not been able to carry on extensiAe field work 
during the year. The explorations of Dr. Walter Hough, made in 
connection with an expedition conducted by Dr. J. L, Rose, of the 
Division of Botan}^, were mentioned in the report of last year, although 
not completed until August of the present year. The collections made 
are of very considerable scientific value, including, as they do, many 
plants used in the native arts, ancient and modern, besides numerous 
specimens of native handiwork. During the year Mr. C. H. Town- 
send returned from his voyage on the Albatross^ bringing a large col- 
lection of ethnological specimens from the Pacific islands, and Dr. 
W. H. Abbott, continuing his explorations in the Malay Archipelago, 
has forwarded many objects of interest. Col. H. H. Hilder, of the 
Bureau of American Ethnology, has visited the Philippines, collecting 
for the Pan-American Exposition, and reports the shipment of much 
material that will finalh^ enrich the Museum. Maj. J. W. Powell and 
Mr. W. H. Holmes spent three months in Cuba and Jamaica, securing 
valuable collections of relics illustrating the ancient peoples of these 
islands. 

RESEAKCHES. 

The curators of the department have found time, aside from their 
duties as custodians of the collections, to engage in important researches 
based largely, as usual, on the national collections. The head curator 
has continued his studies relating to aboriginal pottery, to the evidences 
of auriferous gravel man in California, and to antiquities of Mexico. 
The curator of ethnology has made progress toward completing his 
monograph on American aboriginal zootechnj^, and has made a careful 
study of the recently received Hudson collection of Calif ornia basketry. 
The assistant curator of ethnolog)'^ has continued his studies in heating 
and illumination, and has prepared a manuscript on the primitive 
stages of illumination, covering the use of the torch and the candle. 
He has also pointed out the connection between Mexico and the Phil- 
ippines with relation to the introduction of plants and industries from 
Mexico to the Philippines and from the Philippines to Mexico. 

The curator of prehistoric archaeology has made further progress in 
his studies relating to primitive trepannation, working experimentally 
with primitive utensils upon various specimens of human crania. He 
has also been interested in the discovery of the truth with respect 
to allegations that prehistoric man was ambidextrous, studying the 
statistics furnished by our Indian schools and the rich collections of his 
division. 

The curator of the Division of Religions has completed an illus- 
trated catalogue of the Benguiat collection of Jewish ceremonial 
objects. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 29 

The curator of the Division of Mechanical Technolog-y has been 
prosecuting researches in various sections of this division, and Mr. 
G. C. Maynard, aid. continues his studies with respect to the electrical 
collections. 

The extensive collections of the department naturally form the 
basis of study in many branches of research. Students are made 
welcome at all times, and not a few have availed themselves of the 
facilities offered. Mr. Foster Jennings, Rev. Dr. W. E. Griffis, Mr. 
W. H. Patton, Mr. J. D. McGuire, and Mr. E. Quesada have pursued 
investigations in the Divisions of Ethnology and Somatology. Mr. 
Frank Calvert, Prof. F. B. Tarbell, and Mr. Willard Nye, jr., have 
consulted the collections in prehistoric archaeology, and Mr. Franklin 
W. Smith and the Association for the Study of Comparative Religions 
have pursued investigations in the Division of Religions. Scientitic 
and numerous nonscientific writers engaged in the preparation of 
matter for periodicals and newspapers have found the department a 
profitable field. 

LOANS. 

It is not usual to lend collections to students desiring to study them 
outside of the Museum, save in cases where loss or injury is not immi- 
nent. In several instances, however, articles have been turned over 
to the Bureau of American Ethnology, and a few loans have been 
made to museums. A collection of Shoshone and Ute crania was for- 
warded to the American JSIuseum of Natural History at the request of 
Prof. F. W. Putnam. These were studied by Dr. A. Hrdlicka, and 
returned in good order. A number of games have also been loaned 
to the museum of the Universit}" of Pennsylvania for the use of Mr. 
Stewart Culin. Numerous modeL belonging to the Section of Trans- 
portation were loaned to the Carnegie Museum. Pittsburg, Pa., in 
order that copies of them might be made for that institution. A col- 
lection of electrical apparatus numbering 56 specimens was loaned to 
the American Commissioner-General for the Paris Exposition. 



I 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY 
FOR THE YEAR 1899-1900. 

By Frederick W. True, 
Head Curator. 

The past year has been one of unusual activity in several of the 
divisions, and a iuun]>er of important advances have been made. It 
has been marked also ])v the beginning- of preparations for the Pan- 
American Exposition, which opens at Buffalo, N. Y., in May, 1901. 

IMPROVKMENT OF EXHIBITION HALLS. 

In the Division of Mammals a plan for improving the housing of 
the exhibition series, worked out last year, was carried into effect. A 
large case, 91 feet long and 9 feet deep, was built along the east wall 
of the south hall, and in it were placed all the North American car- 
nivores. This allowed the removal of the unsighth' temporaiy case 
containing the seals from the center of the hall, and the placing of the 
groups of bison and moose, the finest zoological groups the Museum 
possesses, in a better light. The present arrangement of cases is 
shown on the following page. 

The large cast and skeleton of a humpback whale, which was for 
many j'^ears suspended from the roof in this hall, was removed to the 
adjoining osteological hall, replacing a skeleton of the same species 
formerly exhibited there. This change has improved the lighting in 
the south hall, as the cast formerly obstructed the light from the 
main south window. 

An important change was, after full consideration, made in the 
south east range, occupied last year jointly hy the exhibits of reptiles 
and of lishes and a part of the mammal collections of the Biological 
Surve}^ of the Department of Agriculture. The range was completel}'" 
floored over at the level of the gallery, dividing the hall into an upper 
and lower stoiy . The mammal collections referred to were transferred 
to the upper story, leaving the ground floor entireh' free for exhibi- 
tion purposes, a decided advantage both as to increase of space and 
improvement of appearance. 

31 



32 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



As the old wooden floor could not l)e replaced at once bj^ a stone 
pavement, it was thought best not to attempt a rearrangement and 
extension of the exhibition series of reptiles, batrachians, and fishes 
until next year. 

N. 



CO 3 

*r — ri 



«&§'» 



I'D 9 g< 






O 



Moose group. 



s 












a) 




a 




< 


J 







z 








"3 

g 

















Bison group. 



South American mammals. 



U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, SOUTH HALL— AMERICAN MAMMALS. 

No important change has taken place in the Hall of Comparative 
Anatomy. ])ut the introduction of skylights in the roof of this hall has 
increased the amount of light. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 38 

The ttooi'ing over of the south east raiig-e, already mentioned, made it 
possible to extend the laboratory of the Division of Plants. New dust- 
tight cases were built for the herbarium and placed in the second story 
of the rang'e, whicli they occupy jointly with the mammal collections of 
the Department of Agriculture. A row of skylights in the roof over 
these cases gives abundance of light. 

The work of reorganizing the exhibition series of birds in the main 
hall of the Smithsonian building, which was begun last year, has been 
completed, except in so far as regards labeling. The old wooden floor 
in this hall was replaced by one of stone and cement (terrazzo) at the 
beginning of the year and a plan was adopted for lighting the center 
of the hall, formerly almost totally dark, by artificial means. New 
cases with large glass were provided for the four spaces about the 
entrance, styled "the quadrangle,'' and in them have been placed spe- 
cial exhibits of birds of more than ordinary interest, such as the birds 
of paradise, parrots, hornbills, etc. The cases are lighted l)y incan- 
descent electric lamps, provided with hoods and reflectors. The result 
of these changes is that this section of the hall, formerly unflt for 
exhibition -purposes, is now one of the most attractive points in the 
building. The reduction in the number of birds exhibited has relieved 
the congested condition of the cases, and makes it possible to view each 
specimen satisfactorily. The cases themselves are old and not as free 
from dust as could be wished, but otherwise the improvement efl'ected 
may be considered to have amply repaid the labor involved. A con- 
siderable amount of relabeling remains to be done, and better provision 
made for the bird groups and the collections of eggs and nests. 

A series of enlarged illustrations of Rotifers was added to the new 
exhibition series of lower invertebrates during the year. In the 
North American series the groups remaining to be represented are 
the parasitic and nonparasitic worms and the polyzoa and certain of 
the Crustacea. 

No opportunity was found during the year to reorganize the exhib- 
its of insects and of plants, and no important changes were made in 
the exhibition series of moUusks. The osteological exhibit, as stated 
in a previous report, is as full as can be accommodated in the present 
quarters. 

EXPLORATIONS. 

The extensive collecting operations of Dr. W. L. Abbott, who gen- 
erously donates the fruit of his labors to the ^Tuseum, continued 
during the year. 

The activities of the scientiflc bureaus of the Government, involv- 
ing the acquisition of natural history specimens, vary from year to 
year. During the past year, as in many years preceding, the opera- 
tions of the United States Fish Commission resulted in large additions 
to the Museum. 

NAT MUS 1900 8 



34 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

A new source of increment has been found in the willingness of 
observers of the Weather Bureau, especially those in the West Indies, 
to collect material desired bj^^ the Museum. 

Purchases were more frequent during the past year than formerly, 
and the success in filling important gaps in various series was most 
gratifying. Indeed, the zoological collections have reached the stage 
where means to supply definite deficiencies by expenditure of money 
is a matter of the greatest importance. Not less important, and pro- 
moting the same end, is the employment of trained collectors to visit 
localities selected for specific reasons. During the past year several 
such opportunities were taken advantage of with most beneficial 
results. 

While the Museum has never been in a position financially to main- 
tain extensive field operations, members of the scientific staff have 
nearly every year made collections of more or less magnitude. Sev- 
eral such enterprises were entered into last year. In addition, oppor- 
tunities occur, from time to time, to accompany field parties under 
private auspices. Several members of the scientific staff' joined the 
Harriman Alaska Expedition by invitation of Mr. Edw. H. Harriman. 
At the close of the year, Mr. M. W. Lyon, jr., was detailed to accom- 
pany Lieut. Wirt Robinson, U. S. A., to Venezuela. 

Duri'.ig the summer of 1890 Messrs. J. N, Rose and Walter Hough 
were engaged for three months in a botanical expedition in central 
and southern Mexico. They visited numerous places where collections 
had been made previously, and obtained many plants from type locali- 
ties, not a few of which were not represented in the herbarium, 
besides numerous undescribed species. 

Mr. B. A. Bean pursued ichthyological investigations for the 
Museum in Edgartown Harbor, Massachusetts, and obtained an excel- 
lent series of fishes for the collection. 

The head curator spent some weeks, by the favoi' of the Cabot Steam 
Whaling Company, at their station in Newfoundland, where he had 
admirable opportunities to study fresh examples of finback and hump- 
back whales. 

ACCESSIONS. 

The accessions of the year compare favorably in scientific importance 
with those of preceding years, but were somewhat less numerous than 
in 1898-99. 

Accessions to the collections are received from a great variety of 
sources, among which the donations of numerous friends and corre- 
spondents of the Smithsonian Institution are conspicuous. 

Dr. W. L. Abbott, whose name is associated in these reports with 
so many valual)le donations, presented large zoological collections dur- 
ing the year from the islands of the China Sea, from Trong, Lower 
Siam, and Singapore. These collections comprised no less than 257 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 85 

niamnials, 763 birds, and 125 batrachians, together with insects and 
other invertebrates. Thej^ are of great interest to the Museum, since 
the}' contain many species new to science, as well as a variet}' of 
others previously unrepresented hero. Their value for scientitic pur- 
poses is much enhanced by the accurate* and thorough manner in which 
they are labeled by Dr. Abbott. 

While with the Harriman Alaska expedition Mr. Ridgwa}' obtained 
over 300 birds and Mr. Dall collected a considerable number of inter- 
esting mollusks. The collection of insects presented by Mr. Harriman 
numbers over 4,000 specimens, and is probably the largest and most 
complete collection of Alaska insects ever brought together. It con- 
tains many new forms and a large series of species from boreal 
America not previously represented in the Museum. The collecting 
was done by Mr. Trevor Kincaid, of the University of Washington. 

Sir Charles Eliot, British Samoan commissioner, presented to the 
Museimi an excellent series of shells and naked mollusks. and a large 
number of other invertebrates, which he collected in Samoa. 

The zoological collectors sent out by the Institution in the interest 
of the Pan-American Exposition to Cuba and Porto Rico obtained a 
large amount of interesting material. Doctors Stejneger and Richmond 
collected 250 birds, 549 reptiles and batrachians, 126 bats, and a ([uan- 
tity of insects, crustaceans, earthworms, and other specimens. Messrs. 
J. H. Rile}' and William Palmer in Cul)a, at the close of the year, had 
collected 509 bats, 298 birds, 209 reptiles and batrachians, a large 
number of fishes, more than 1,700 insects, besides other invertebrates, 
and plants and specimens of other kinds. 

The most important purchase of the year was the Goodfellow collec- 
tion of humming birds, comprising about 1,200 specimens. Many 
species are represented by series of from 10 to 20 skins. The skins 
are admirably prepared and yery fully labeled. A large number of 
the species was previously unrepresented in the collection. 

Another purchase of importance was the Marx collection of spiders, 
containing several thousand specimens, chieHy North American, and 
including numerous types and co-types of described species. 

An especially noteworthy specimen obtained this year was the skel- 
eton of the recently-discovered Marsupial Mole, JVotoryctes, which was 
received in exchange from the University College, Dundee. 

Endeavors to add to the Museum collection of bats have been very 
successful. Mr. Ernest T. Giers presented 88 specimens from the 
island of Trinidad. Lieut. J. W. Daniel, jr., presented 46 specimens 
from Cuba; 196 specimens from Curacao were purchased from ]Mr. 
Leon J. Guthrie. Mr. P. McDonough presented 29 specimens from 
the Barbados, and Mr. L. M. McConnick presented 17 specimens 
from the Philippine Islands. In addition, the collectors for the Pan- 
American Exposition (as al)oye stated) obtained 126 specimens in Porto 
Rico and 509 in Cuba. Altogetlnn-, therefore, over 1,000 specmiens 
of bats have been added during the j'ear. 



36 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Two collections of European mammals, comprising 185 specimens, 
were purchased. The proprietors of Forepaugh and Sells Brothers' 
shows presented an African rhinoceros which died in their menagerie. 

Skeletons of the aye-aye, potto, and a porpoise {NeomeriK) were pur- 
chased, and skeletons of a guanaco and a spotted hyena were obtained 
from the National Zoological Park. 

Among birds a very interesting addition was the skeleton of Harris's 
cormorant, received in exchange from Leland Stanford Junior Univer- 
sity. It is at present the only known skeleton of this rare species. 
A vakiable collection of Hawaiian birds, containing about 500 speci- 
mens, was purchased from Mr. H. W. Henshaw. Mr. Outram Bangs 
presented a collection of about 800 Colombian and Panama birds. 
From Maj. W. A. Glassford, U. S. A., was received a specimen of 
the Cuban Macaw {Ara tricolor)^ which is now believed to be extinct. 
Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. A. , presented a number of reptiles which he 
collected in Texas. 

. An excellent collection of Japanese fishes, including the t^'pes of 
14 hew forms, was presented by the Leland Stanford Junior Univer- 
sity, through Dr. David S. Jordan. These were supplemented by col- 
lections from the same region transmitted by the Fish Coumiission, 
together with Alaskan, Hawaiian, and Californian fishes. A collection 
of fishes of the Red Sea, in an especially fine state of preservation, and 
also fishes of the Mediterranean, were obtained from the Museo Civico, 
Milan, Italy. New Zealand fishes were obtained from the Public 
Museum at Wanganui. 

Mr. Barton A. Bean made a collection of fishes in the vicinity of 
Woods Hole, Mass., in which were included the young of a number of 
southern forms not previously found so far north. 

Among mollusks the most interesting addition was a fine collection 
of some 800 specimens of South Australian shells received in exchange 
from Walter D. Reed, esq., of Adelaide. A small series of rare shells 
was received from the Bishop Memorial Museum, Honolulu, and Mr. 
Dall also presented specimens collected b}' himself in the Hawaiian 
Islands. 

A valuable series of land shells from the Galapagos Islands was 
received from the Leland Stanford Junior Universit}^ and the Museum 
series is now probably unsurpassed. Rare land shells from the 
Hawaiian Islands were presented by Mrs. Henrietta D. Walcott, of 
Dedham, Mass. Mr. B. H. Wright, of Penn Yan, N. Y., continued 
his generous donations of type specimens of river mussels (Naiades) 
from the South and West. 

Many fine shells have been added to the Pacific coast series by cor- 
respondents in California, among whom should be mentioned Mrs. T. 
S. Oldroyd, Prof. F. W. Kelsey, and Hon. Delos Arnold. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 37 

The additions to the collections of insects and arachnida and niyria- 
poda were very extensive, numbering no less than 85,00(J specimens. 

Mention has already been made of the Marx collection of spiders 
and of Dr. Abbott's donations. Mr. Hugo Soltau presented a large 
collection of coleoptera. Mr. E. A. Schwarz continued to make 
important additions to the Hubbard and Schwarz collection. Large 
num])ers of insects were received from the New Mexico Agricultural 
College, through Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell, including many types and 
co-t3^pes of species described by Professor Cockerell. Prof. John B. 
Smith presented types of various species of Noctuidte described by 
him. Collections of Mexican hymenoptera and South American lepi- 
doptera were purchased. Co-types of species described by Doctor 
Horn were received from the California Academy of Sciences. 

The Department of Agriculture transmitted a collection of insects 
from Porto Rico collected l)y Mr. August Busck. 

A large collection of crustaceans from the coast of Brazil, obtained 
by the Branner-Agassiz Expedition of 1899, was presented by Dr. J. 
C. Branner. Dr. C. H. Eigenmann presented cotypes of an Isopod 
crustacean from IzeFs Cave, Texas. Dr. C. A. Kofoid presented 
co-types of a new genus of Volvocida% and Rev. George W. Taylor 
co-types of two species of British Columbia sponges. Mr. H. W. 
Henshaw presented a number of crustaceans from the Hawaiian 
Islands. Crustaceans collected in Texas and Mexico were received 
from the biological survey of the Department of Agriculture. Corals 
and crustaceans collected in Porto Rico were received from the United 
States Fish Commission. 

The additions to the herbarium were very extensive, exceeding 
27.000 specimens. Two large donations deserve special mention. Dr. 
Charles ]\Iohr, of Mobile, Ala., an enthusiastic botanist and collector, 
presented to the Institution his herbarium of more than 3,000 speci- 
mens, chiefly from the southern United States. As the national her- 
barium was previously deficient in plants from the South, Dr. Mohr's 
contribution was especially acceptable. Of similar importance was 
the donation of the De Chalmot collection of 3,000 plants, from the 
United States and Europe, by Mrs. Marie De Chalmot, of Holcombs 
Rock, Va. In the same connection should be mentioned the gift of 
about 1,100 plants, chiefly from the ITnited States, by Mr. A. H. Cur- 
tiss, of Jacksonville, Fla. 

Extensive series from Porto Rico, Mexico, the District of Colum- 
bia, the Yellowstone National Park, the Pribilof Islands, Canada, 
Jamaica, and the New England States were purchased, and collections 
from Montana, Central America, and the Philippine Islands were 
obtained by exchange. 

Dr. J. N. Rose, while pursuing botanical investigations in Mexico, 
collected some 1,200 specimens for the Museum. 



38 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

The Department of Agriculture transmitted 2,500 Alaskan plants 
collected b}' Mr. F. V. Coville and Mr. T. H. Kearney, 2,300 speci- 
mens from. Virginia and North Carolina collected b}^ Mr. Kearney, 
and 807 specimens from the State of Washington collected 1)}^ Mr. 
Kirk Whited. The United States Geological Survey transmitted 413 
plants from Oregon. 

STUDY COLLECTIONS. 

In the Division of Mammals satisfactory progress was made in 
re-arranging the study collections of rodents, insectivores, and bats, 
comprising several thousand specimens, and the work of remodeling 
skins for study purposes was continued for about live months. The 
majority of these small skins are now in excellent condition. The col- 
lection of skins of large mammals is still in confusion owing to lack of 
proper case room. 

The curator of the Division of Birds having been detailed for work 
on the manuscript of his Manual of the Birds of North and Middle 
America, and the assistant curator having been in the West Indies for 
some months, little was accomplished in this division bej^ond the 
re-arrangement of the exhibition series, already referred to, and the 
performance of routine work. The great study collection of birds is, 
however, in a very satisfactory condition except that portion which is 
still in old-st3de cases. Before this can be put in order some eighteen 
half-unit cases must be provided, for which funds have not been 
availa])le thus far. 

The curator of the Division of Comparative Anatomy and assistant 
were occupied very largely with work on vertebrate fossils, especially' 
with the transfer of the Marsh collections from New Haven. This, 
and the necessit}^ of re-arranging the exhibition hall, left little time for 
other than routine work. The condition of the osteological collections 
is satisfactory. 

Mr. Dall, honorary cui-ator of the Division of Mollusks, reports as 
follows: 

Progress in the revision of the study series is naturally slow but constant. All the 
reserve material is accessible and in order. Anything in the collection can be found 
in a few minutes and the genera are catalogued on cards which refer to their location 
in the cases. The whole duplicate collection is in first-class order and catalogued on 
cards. The unadministered alcoholics are catalogued by genera on cards and located 
so that any jar can be found at once. 

In the Division of Marine Invertebrates the study collection of dr}^ 
specimens of sea urchins was overhauled and arranged systematically 
for more convenient reference. The collection of worms was trans- 
ferred to a room in the north tower of the Smithsonian building. 

Regarding the study collection of insects, Doctor Howard, honorary 
curator, reports as follows: 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 39 

The collec'tionH aiv in excellent comlitinn, and totally free from nniHeuni pests. 
During April and May all the cabinets and boxes were examined for museum pests, 
and not a specimen was found infested. It is the first year in the history of the 
division that such a state of affairs has existed, and this is due jirincipally to the fact 
that a large jiercentage of the insects is now permanently arranged in the lu^w stand- 
ard insect drawers. 

The identification of species and the frequent rearrangement of the different orders 
still continues. Most of the orders are now arranged more or less satisfactorily, 
except the exotic material. The exotic material, ]>articularly in the orders Rhyn- 
chota, Orthoptera, Coleoptera and Lepidoptera, is only partially arranged and 
identified, and it will take many months, if not two or three years, ])efore all can be 
satisfactorily arranged and identified. 

Doctor Dyar has done much work on the Lepidoptera, Mr. Schwarz on the Coleop- 
tera, Mr. Coquillett on the Diptera, Mr. Ashmead on the Hymenoptera, Mr. Banks 
on the Arachnida, Mr. Currie on some of the Neuropteroid insects, particularly on 
the Oilonata and Myrmeleonidiv, and Mr. Heidemann on some families in the Rhyn- 
chota. 

The order ( )rtlio})tera, especially the exotic material, is almost entirely nnarranged. 

Reiw'eiK'o has already l^een made to the improvements in the l)otan- 
ical laboratory. The following- statement by Mr. F. V. Coville, 
honorary curator of the Division of Plants, explains more fully the 
character and extent of these changes, as well as the progress of 
routine Avork during the year: 

During the past year the gallery of the south east range has been extended over the 
center court and about 1,200 square feet have been added to our floor space. This 
has enabled us to transfer the cases Avhich were temporarily placed on the exhibition 
gallery to ])ermanent (quarters as well as to make room for some new cases. After 
considerable experimenting a very satisfactory case was planned and eighty new 
cases have been made and put in place. Each ease contains four rows of six pigeon- 
holes, each of the standard size. In addition to the usual doors which fit against 
felt strips, a second set of doors can be added. These are only to be used during the 
process of fumigating. 

The new cases are stacked in nine double rows, the alternate double rows being 
two cases high, while the other are one case high. These low cases furnish an 
abundance of table room either for the distribution of specimens into the cases or as 
a convenient place for the critical examination of plants. Above these table cases 
five skylights ha\e just been added, which furnish an almndance of light and suitable 
ventilation. 

During the year the entfre collection has been transferred to zinc-lined cases and 
poisoned with carbon bisulphide. While this work has been done as carefully as 
possible, yet it requires a great deal of time and is more or less injurious to the plants. 
In spite of this care, I regret to say, after the specimens are returned to their proper 
places in the herbarium, the ravages of the insects are still considerable. 

Three preparators have been engaged in mounting and labeling specimens during 
the year. The total number of specimens mounted is 24,049 against 22,559 last year. 
Nearly all of these have been stamped and incorporated into the general herbarium. 

The marking of all accessions with a uniform stamp was begun in 
1895, and 76,030 sheets had been stamped at the close of the year cov- 
ered l)y this report. 



40 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

KESEARCHE8 AND PUBLICATION >S. 

The present year saw the couipletioii of Jordan and Evermann's 
elaborate manual of the Fishes of North and Middle America, which 
constitutes BuHetin 47 of the National Museum. The companion work 
on birds by Mr. Robert Ridgway progressed favorably and the manu- 
script of the tirst volume was very nearly ready for the printer at the 
close of the year. The first installment of completed manuscript, 
about 250 pages, was submitted. A paper on the birds of Trong, 
Lower Siam, collected b}^ Dr. W. L. Abbott, was begun by Dr. 
Charles Richmond. 

Mr. B. A. Bean engaged in the study of the fishes of New York, 
Woods Hole, Mass., and the District of Columbia, and also determined 
the fishes collected by Mr. J. B. Hatcher in Patagonia. 

A revision of the two great groups of bivalve mollusks, the Telli- 
nidiv and Cardiida^. including their classification and a review of the 
American species, recent and Tertiary, was completed during the yesir 
by Mr. William H. Dall. Over 100 new forms, recent and fossil, were 
detected and described. 

Mr. Simpson completed his revision of the Naiades, or river mussels, 
a work which represents luany years of arduous study, and may be 
considered the most important contribution to the subject since the 
appearance of Doctor Lea's last synopsis. Mr. Paul Bartsch has 
undertaken and partially completed a revision of the Pyramidellidee 
of the Pacific coast, a puzzling group of shells requiring much micro- 
scopical inA''estigation. 

Mr. Richard Rathbun reports as follows regarding the scientific 
work of the Division of Marine Invertebrates: 

The extensive collection of Decapod crustaceans obtained by the United States 
Fish Commission steamer FIkIi Hawk in Porto Rico in the early part of 1899, were 
transferred to this division for study. The report on the Anomura has been com- 
pleted by Doi'tor Benedict, and that on the Macrura by Miss Rathbun, who has also 
the jjortion on the Brachyura well under way. These reports will be published by 
the Fish C'ommission. 

Doctor Benedict has nearly completed a monograph of the Galatheidje, to be pub- 
lished in the Proceedings. 

■ Some of the Crustacea collected on the Branner-Agassiz expedition to Brazil in 1899, 
by Dr. J. C. Branner and Mr. A. W. Greeley, have been worked up in this diWsion, 
the Decapoda and Stomatopoda by Miss Rathbun, the Isopoda by Miss Richardson. 
Reports on the same are now in press and will appear in the Proceedings of the 
Washington Academy of Sciences. The Annelida of the same expedition will be 
studied Ijy Doctor T-Jenedict. 

A begmning has been made toward a report on the Decapoda collected from Puget 
Sound northward to Bering Sea by the Harriman Alaskan expedition, summer of 
1899. 

Miss Rathbun has completed a report on the Decapod Crustacea of West Africa, 
which has been published in the Proceedings, and has also made a series of keys to 
North American crabs, two of which have already been published in the American 
Naturalist. 



REPORT OF ASRIRTANT SECRETARY. 41 

The Decapoda and Isopoda collected on an expedition to the < uilapago.s Islands in 
1898-99, sent out by Stanford T'niversity, liave been received for study. The Isopoda 
luive been written up by Miss Kii-hardson, and the Brachyura ami Macrura ha\c' been 
determined by Miss Kathbun. 

During last summer Miss Rathbnn made a study of a certain ])ortion of the fresh- 
water oralis belonging to the Museum of Natural History, Paris. 

]\Iiss Richardson has prepared a key to North American Isopoda, which has 
appeared in two numbers of the American Naturalist; she has also nearly completed 
an account of the Isopoda of the Atlantic coast of North America, with descriptions of 
many new species. 

Mr. F. A. Luciis, in connection with work on fossil vertebrates, has 
engaged in studies of the gallinaceous birds and of the corinfirants, and 
also of certain Cyprinodont fishes. 

The treatise on the reptiles of Japan, prepared by Doctor Stejneger, 
was delayed for want of satisfactor}' illustrations, but toward the close 
of the year means were found to obtain desirable results, and it is 
expected that the work can soon be published. Doctor Stejneger has 
been engaged also on a monograph of the reptiles and batrachians of 
Porto Rico, and, since his return from a visit to that island, has exteiided 
the scojie of his work to include a general survev^ of the Antilles. 

Activity in mammalogy has been due almost exclusively to Mr. (1. S. 
Miller, jr., who has studied and published upon numerous lots of 
material in the Division of Mammals. He published fourteen contri- 
l)utions during the year, including a series of directions foi' preparing 
specimens of small mammals. His work on the free-tailed American 
bats has been held back awaiting the accumulation of additional 
material. An extended report on the mammals collected by Doctor 
Abbott in the islands of the South China Sea, by Mr. Miller, was 
completed during the year, and also a report on the mammals collected 
by Mr. Currie in Liberia. 

Mr. Ashmead continued work on his monograph of the North 
American Rraconidw and on his reports on Japanese hymenoptera, 
on the hymenoptera collected by Doctor Abbott in Africa and Siam, 
and on the parasitic hymenoptera of the Hawaiian Islands. He 
completed reports on the aculeate hymenoptera of St. Vincent and 
Grenada received from the British Museum in 1897, and on the Aus- 
tralia hymenoptera collected by Albert Koebele, and others bred b}'^ 
Mr. W. W. Froggatt in New Zealand. Mr. Coquillett prepared 
monographs of the flies of the families Ephydrida^ and Drosophilidte 
and began a report on the Diptera of the Harriman Expedition. A 
monograph of the antlions of North America was begun by Mr. R. P. 
Currie. 

Dr. J. N. Rose, besides determining the plants collected ])y him in 
Mexico, completed, conjointly with Dr. J. M. Coulter, a revision of 
the Umbellifera^ of the United States, containing notices of about 50 
species new to science. The Museum collection in this order is very 
rich and contains fullv 1»,000 sheets. 



42 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

]\Ir. Pollard continued his investigations of the North American 
violets to which reference was made last year. In this work Professor 
Greene, of the Catholic University of America, lias largely cooperated. 
One set of duplicate specimens was distributed last year, as mentioned 
in my previous report. 

The head curator continued his investigations of the \\'halebone 
whales of the North Atlantic, in connection with which he located and 
as far as possible examined and i)hotographed the types of the various 
species hitherto descri))ed. 

USE OF THE COLLECTIONS. 

The staff of the Biological Survey of the Department of Agriculture 
has, as in past years, made extensive use of the zoological collections, 
especially those of mammals and birds. Mr. Outram Bangs, of Boston, 
Mass., made comparisons of birds recentl}- collected for him in Panama 
and Colombia with those from this region in the Museum. The col- 
lections of Alaskan ])irds were examined by Dr. Louis B. Bishop, of 
New Haven, Conn., in connection with his determinations of birds 
collected by him in the Yukon region. Dr. A. W. Grabau, who is 
making a special stud}" of the moUusks of the family Fusidaj, spent 
some time in examining the Museum collections. Numerous persons 
brought shells to the Museum to be compared and named. 

Man}' workers have been engaged upon the collections of the Divi- 
sion of Marine Invertebrates during the year. Miss H. Richardson 
continued work on the Isopods, Mr. T. Wayland Vaughan on West 
Indian corals, and Mr. W. P. Hay on crayfishes. The Museum has 
had the benefit of the services of these experts on several occasions. 
Dr. Albert Mann spent several weeks in examining the deep-sea 
deposits for diatoms. Several months were spent by Mrs. F. B. 
Arnold in general studies of invertebrates in connection with a popular 
work on marine life which she is about to publish. 

The collection of fishes have been made use of, as in preceding years, 
by various officers of the United States Fish Commission, particularly 
by Doctors Evermann, Kendall, and Smith, and Mr. M. C. Marsh. 

The herbarium was extensively consulted during the year, both by 
the members of the scientific staff* of the Department of Agriculture 
engaged in botanical work, and other botanists. 

LOAN OF SPECIMENS. 

As in previous years, the use of the collections for scientific purposes 
is not confined to examination of material in the Museum laboratories. 
Large immbers of specimens are sent out for study every year to 
naturalists throughout the United States and in other countries. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 43 

During the past year this has obtained to a large extent as regards 
phmts. birds, nianinials. and marine invertebrates, and special mention 
should be made of some of the more important loans. 

The collection of crustaceans of the family Alpheidae, which was to 
have been worked up by Prof. F. H. Hei'rick, having been returned 
by him with the statement that circumstances prevented his carrying 
out the undertaking, it was transmitted to Dr. H. Coutiere, Museum 
of Natural History. Paris, who has been many years engaged in the 
study of the group. 

Applications having been received simultaneously from Professor 
Edwards, of the University of Cincinnati (now of Trinit}' College), and 
Dr. Hu))ert L. Clark, of Olivet College, Michigaa, for the use of the 
collections of Holothurians for monographic pui"poses, it was decided 
to divide the collections, sending the Apoda to Dr. Clark, and the 
remainder of the specimens to Professor Edwards. Mr. Robert W, 
Hall, New Haven, Conn., obtained the use of the large collection of 
PaUjemoneUx for special study of that genus. Samples of ocean l)ot- 
tom were sent to Dr. Albert Mann, who desired to search them for 
diatoms. 

Dr. J. Percy Moore, who lias been engaged for some time in work- 
ing up the collections of leeches, received an additional consignment of 
specimens during the j'ear. 

The ]Museum collection of meadow larks (35 skins) was sent to Mr. 
F. ]M. Chapman, of the American Museum of Natural Histor}-, New 
York, for use in a revision of the genus Sturnella. 

The collection of lemmings (124 skins) was lent to Mr. AVitmer Stone, 
of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, who was engaged 
in a study of the species of this group of rodents. 

At the request of Dr. D. S. Jordan the collections of Japanese and 
Corean fishes made by Messrs. Jouy. Morse, Hitchcock, and Bernadou 
were sent to the Leland Stanford Junior University, to aid in his work 
on the fish faunas of these countries. 

A collection of insects of the famih' Saldid^e (Rhynchota) was sent 
for the purpose of study to Prof. H. E. Summers, of the Iowa Agricul- 
tural College, who is engaged in monographing the family. Specimens 
of Tipulida? and Ortalid;e (Diptera) were lent to Prof. R. W. Doane. 
for monographic purposes. 

A collection of Hymenoptera was sent to Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell, 
of Mesilla Park, N. Mex., for study in connection with his investiga- 
tions of the mouth parts of these insects. Several other loans of 
insects were made during the year. 

The extensive use of the herbarium by experts outside of Washing- 
ton is shown by the fact that 3,232 herbarium sheets were sent out for 
stvidy during the year. 



44 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

DISTRIBUTION OF DUPLICATES. 

The demand for zoological material 1 ) y educational institutions showed 
no abatement during the year. Nearl}^ all the sets of duplicate speci- 
mens prepared some years ago have now been distributed, and it will 
be Jieccssary to form additional series at no distant date. Eighteen of 
the educational sets of marine invertebrates and eleven special sets were 
distriljuted. 

TREPARATIONS FOR THE PATs'^-AMERICAX EXPOSITION. 

The head curator of the department was appointed representative of 
the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum for the Pan-Ameri- 
can Exposition, to be held at Buffalo, in 1901. A plan for the exhibi- 
tion of an outline series representing the vertebrate fauna of America 
was formed at an early date, and in February, 1900, Doctors Stejneger 
and Richmond were detailed to make collections in Porto Rico and other 
islands of the Antilles, and Messrs. William Palmer and J. H. Riley in 
Cuba. As already mentioned, a large amount of valuable zoological 
and botanical material was ol)tained. Taxidermic work for the expo- 
sition has been carried on during the year. 

PERSONNEL. 

On July 10, 1899, Mr. W. R. Maxon received temporary appoint- 
ment as aid in the Division of Plants, and on November 16, 1899, he 
was regularly added to the staff and was assigned to the section of 
Cryptogamic collections. Mr. Sidney I. Wilson, of St. Joseph, Mo., 
spent several months in the Division of Birds as a volunteer assistant, 
with the purpose of increasing his knowledge of ornithology. The 
Museum has profited b}^ the cooperation of Mr. H. C. Oberholser, who 
determined several collections of birds during the year. Professor 
Greene contributed valua])le expert services in the preparation of sets 
of herbarium specimens of the various species of violets. 



•Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Merrill. 



Plate 1, 




Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Merril' 



Plate 2. 




View showing Rail Case and Installation of nonmetallic Minerals on Gallery 
OF Southwest Court of United States National Museum, looking North. 



For DESCRiPTION SEE PAGE 47. 



REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY 
FOR THE YEAR 1899-1900. 

By George P. Merrill, 

Head Curator. 

The fiscal year just closed has been one of steady progress in the 
department, and so far as the Section of Vertebrate Paleontology is 
concerned, has been notable for the marked increase in the size and 
value of the collections. Indeed, it is not too much to say that, so 
far as ac(iuisition of material is concerned, the progress made in this 
section is without parallel in the history of the Museum. 

ACCESSIONS. 

The total luunber of accessions received by the various divisions is 
tabulated below, the totals for 1898-99 being also given for the sake 
of comparison: 



Divisions. 



Geology , 

Mineralogy , 

Vertebrate Paleontology . 
Invertebrate Paleontology 
Paleobotany 



Regular. 



108 
37 
30 



Tempo- 
rary. 



189 
120 



Total. 



1899-1900. 1898-99 



297 

157 

30 



279 
116 



It is, however, impossible to gain from these figures any tangible 
idea of the value or amount of material received, since accessions vary 
almost indefinitely, not only in number of specimens, but in the value 
of the individual objects comprising them. 

In the Division of Geology the more important materials received 
were as follows: A series of orbicular granites from Finland, Sweden, 
and Rhode Island; a series of nearly -100 specimens of volcanic 
materials from the Hawaiian Islands; some 2,000 specimens of rocks 
representing areas surveyed by the United States Geological Survey," 
and turned into the Museum for preservation, with a view to future 
reference in accordance with the usual custom. These comprise rocks 
from the Little Belt Mountains, the Uv^alde, the Anthracite and Crested 
Butte, and the Big Trees quadrangles; and the Silver Clili' and Kosita 
districts of Colorado, besides much miscellaneous material. 

45 



46 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

In the Division of Minerals the most important accession has been 
the private collection of Prof. Charles U. Shepard, comprising- some 
5,000 specimens, man}^ of which are ver}' choice and rare, as noted 
below. The meteorite collection has increased more than during any 
similar period in its history since the receipt of the Shepard collection 
of meteorites in July, 1886. This great increase is due in part to the 
purchase of the Allegan stone (some 64 pounds) which fell at Allegan, 
Michigan, on July 10, 1899. In addition to this the following speci- 
mens have been obtained: 

Aerolites. — Jerome. Gove County, Kansas; Schonenberg, Bavaria; 
Bishopville, Sumter County, South Carolina; Indarka, Russia; Lissa, 
Bohemia. 

Aerosiderlte,"^. — Augustinowka, Russia, and Bischtulje, Russia. 

The gem collection has been increased by three tine opals, and three 
cut Japanese beryls. 

The principal accession of the year in the Section of Vertebrate 
Fossils has been the Marsh collection, which was formalh" transferred to 
the Museum in December, 1899. This 1 will refer to in detail later. In 
addition to this, the section has received: Through exchange with the 
Glen Island Museum a tine specimen of fossil gar, Lepidosteus iihiij)l<\v; 
a verj" perfect skull and a large part of the ])ody of the fossil gar, 
Lepid.osteus atrox., the gift of Mr. Charles Schuchert; types of new 
Jurassic fishes, described by Dr. C. R. Eastman n and transferred to 
the Museum by the Geological Surve}"; a numl^er of specimens of a 
new Leuciscus., also received from the Geological Survey; a tine skull 
and cranium of an Elotlierutia and a DiceratJierium, purchased from 
Mr. Frank Stillwell. 

The most important collections received in the Section of Inverte- 
brate Paleontology are: The Cragin collection (1,322 specimens) of 
Texas Jurassic fossils; the John M. Clarke collection (617 specimens) 
of New York Lower Helderberg fossils; the Townsend collection (864 
specimens) of Guelph (Upper Silurian) fossils; a collection of some 
1,002 Mesozoic fossils, collected in W^^omingby Mr. Schuchert; a series 
of specimens showing the twenty stages through which the Cambrian 
trilobite Sao />ir,'<i/fa passes during its development, received in exchange 
from Dr. Anton Fritsch, of the Bohemian Museiun; a series of corals 
illustrating Mr. Vaughan's forthcoming work on American corals; a 
life-size model of the crustacean Sfi/Iou urns as restored by Dr. C. E. 
Beecher: a specimen of the rare echinoid 0/I(/o/t</j>o/-((s nohdis., the 
gift of ]Mr. W. L. Woods; and from the (jeological Survey a series of 
labeled Cambrian brachiopods (366 specimens) and Rock}" Mountain, 
Ordovician, Silurian, and Devonian fossils (740 specimens). 

Additions of value in the Section of Paleobotany have come almost 
wholly through the United States Geological Survey, and comprise: 
A series of plants associated with the lavas of the Cascade Range, 
as described and figured by Dr. F. H. Knowlton in the Twentieth 
Annual Report of the United States Geological Survey; plants from 



REPOKT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 47 

the Montana formations, described by the .same author in Bulletin 163 
of the Survey; plants of the Payette formation descri))ed by Dr. Knowl- 
ton in the Eighteenth Annual Report of the United States Geological 
Survey; plants from the Cascades of the Colum])ia; plants from 
Esmeralda County, Nevada; a fine series of cycads from the Freezeout 
Hills north of the Medicine Bow River, Carbon County, Wyoming, 
collected by Mr. Charles Schuchert and Dr. Lester F. Ward. 

PROGRESS IN INSTALLATION. 

The progress in caring for the collections has been eminently satis- 
factory. The confusion incidental to the erection of the new galleries 
has been practically overcome, and it is not too much to say that the 
collections as a whole are in better condition now than ever before. 

The installation of the systematic series in the Section of Applied 
Geology on the gallery in the southwest court (Plates 1 and 2) has 
been practically completed and some 2,500 new labels have been sup- 
plied. The reserve collection of ores has been arranged in the storage 
drawers beneath the rail cases and a complete card catalogue of the 
same prepared. Great changes have been made incidentally on the 
ground fioor of the court, which is now given up to the building-stone 
collection; the collection illustrating the mineral resources of the 
United States, and various special collections, as the Tenth Census col- 
lection of iron ores; rocks and ores illustrating the geology of Lead- 
ville; and collections illustrating the metallurgy of gold, silver, lead, 
copper, zinc, and iron. 

Progress in the Section of Vertebrate Paleontology has been slow, 
since the energies of the division have been occupied almost entirely 
in making a temporary place for the Marsh collection. One hundred 
and thirteen boxes of this collection have been opened and their con- 
tents distributed and catalogued. Fifteen skulls of TltanofJierhan^ 
and the limb bones of a large dinosaur have been mounted for exhibition. 

In the Section of Invertebrate Paleontology Mr. Schuchert reports 
the mounting of 2,850 specimens of Triassic, Jurassic, Cretaceous, 
Ordovician, Silurian, Lower Helderberg, and Lower Carboniferous 
fossils. In addition, the 1. H. Harris collection of Cincinnati fossils, 
comprising 75 boxes, has been unpacked, assorted, and prepared for 
installation. A large amount of material has been also added to the 
duplicate collections. 

In the Section of Paleobotany the work of installing the Lacoe col- 
lection has been practically completed. Many of the older Museum 
collections which have never been satisfactorih* cai'ed for have been 
overhauled and catalogued and numbers painted upon the specimens 
in a way, it is hoped, to avoid possible confusion in the future. 

The work of building storage racks on galleries of the east south 
and west south ranges has been completed and satisfactory progress 
made in installing in the drawer space thus afforded material belong- 
ing to the sections of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany. 



48 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900, 

The duplicate series desig'ned to show the origin of soils through 
rock weathering and for distribution to schools and colleges, to Avhich 
reference was made in my last report, has been practically completed, 
so far as gathering the materials is concerned; the work of labeling, 
wrapping, and properly describing remains 3'^et to be done. In addi- 
tion to this, some 2,000 duplicates have been weeded out from the 
collections of the Division of Geology alone, wrapped and labeled, 
and sent to the storage sheds, according to our usual custom. Mr, 
Schuchert reports that he has now in storage unassorted duplicate 
materials aggregating manj^ thousands of specimens. 

With the reorganization of 1897, the plans for a Division of Tech- 
nology were sufficiently fornuilated to enable me to turn over a large 
amount of manufactured material and special exhibits, which had long 
been recognized as not belonging properly to the Department of 
Geology, but which were allowed to remain there simply that they 
might be cared for. The space thus gained in storage and exhibition 
rooms has been of material value to the department. 

The constant intrusion of new materials in our exhibition series, 
together with the shifting of collections made possible by the acquisi- 
tion of new cases on the galleries, has brought prominently forward the 
question of labels, with particular reference to color, board, and char- 
acter of type. It need scarcely be said that the first necessity of a 
label is legibility. Brevity and conciseness of statement are also 
important considerations. The head curator's experience has led him 
to 'doubt the advisability of long explanatory labels for individual 
specimens, excepting, it ma}^ be, in the case of large and striking 
objects. The name of the object in type sufficiently large and clear to 
catch the eye, and a few explanatory lines in smaller type, regarding 
source, etc, , are considered the chief essentials. After many trials the 
form given here, printed on a gray board, which experience has shown 
to be little affected by exposure, has been adopted in the sections of 
Geology, Invertebrate Paleontology, and Paleobotany: — 

DIAMONDS.— Cape Bort. 

KIMBERLV MINES, SOUTH AFRICA. 53,671. 

Diamonds of this size and quality are used in making 
engravers' points and bnrnisliing tools for Avatcli and 
pencil case makers. Four pieces ; -vveiglit, three- 
eighths karats each. 

GALENA.— Sulphide of lead, A clus- 
ter of crystals showing: both cubic and 
octahedral faces. 

JOPLIN MINE, .TOPL,I]V, MISSOURI. 17,590. 

Gift of Davis and Mnrpliy. 



Report of U. S. Nat.onal Museum, 1900.— Merrill. 



Plate 3, 




Basaltic Columns. 

Beniiau, near Asbach, Prussia. 

For description see page 49. 



Report of U. S. National Museum. 1900.— Merrill. 



Plate 4. 




Volcanic Bombs. 

For description see page 49. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 49 

In the Section of Vertebrate Paleontology, where larger materials 
permit the use of larger type, an herbarium board is used. The 
drawback to the herbarium board in the small label, it should be 
stated, lies in the difficulty of getting solid l)lackimpressions sufficient 
to give the desired contrast and eas}' legibilit}-. 

In this connection cop}' for some 5,000 specimen labels has been 
prepared and sent to the Government Printing Office during the year, 
mainlv from the sections of Geology and Invertebrate Paleontology. 
Up to the close of the year some 3,500 of these had been printed. 
Eleven large, explanatory labels, in black and gold, for the exhibition 
halls, have also been prepared and are awaiting framing preparatory 
to being put in place. 

Some time has been occupied in revising and bringing up to date 
the manuscript of a guide to a stud}' of the collections in the Section 
of Applied Geology. This is now completed, and at the date of writing 
is at the Government Printing Office. 

PRESENT CONDITION OF COLLECTIONS. 

The present condition of the exhibition and study series of the 
department can be in part surmised from what has already been said. 

The crowded condition of the exhibition halls has led to the with- 
drawal of some of the minor and less conspicuous exhibits to give 
place to larger and more striking forms. Among the recent additions 
of this class reference may be made to the cluster of basaltic columus 
from Bennau, near Asbach, Prussia, shown in Plate 3. These ocdKm 
the same relative position to one another as when formed, and convey 
to the public a much better idea of columnar structure and its cause 
than do the isolated columns. The materials were obtained and set up 
for the jVIuseum under the direction of Mr. F. W. Crosby, of this 
city. 

The large silicified tree trunks {Araucarioxi/lon ansonicitm) from the 
so-called Fossil Forest or Chalcedony Park, near Holbrook. Arizona, 
which were exhibited by the department at the Omaha Exposition in 
1898, have been returned to the Museum and installed in the east end 
of the west south range, there being no room for them with the Paleo- 
botanical exhibit on the gallery. Unfortunately, the long trunk was 
broken in three pieces in process of trans-shipment, but as the fractures 
are sharp and unabraded, the trunk-like nature of the specimen is still 
apparent. The exhibit comprises this trunk, 7^ feet long Ijy 20 inches 
in diameter, with two cross sections each 33 inches in diameter. 

The special series illustrating volcanic phenomena, faults, folds, and 
concretionary structures are now in a very satisfactory condition. 
Plate 4: shows some of the more striking forms of volcanic bombs from 
various locaaties comprised in the first-named exhibit. 

NAT Mus 1900 4 



50 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

From the series of jointed sandstones from the Black Hills collected 
by Mr. N. H. Darton, of the United States Geological Survey, and 
mentioned in mj' last annual report, have been selected for exhibition 
the typical series shown in Plate 5. The sharpness and clear-cut nature 
of the faulting, together with the comparatively small amount of dis- 
plac(Uiient, render such blocks almost ideal for the purpose of exhibi- 
tion. Advantage has been taken of opportunities for procuring exam- 
ples of the peculiar concretionary forms of granitic rocks known to 
the Germans as ' * kugel '^ granites and otherwise as orbicular or con - 
cretionary granites. Such have been studied and described by Krut- 
schoff, who regards them as contact phenomena and as due to the 
cr3'stallizing of the granitic material about preexisting fragments of 
other rocks. One of the more striking forms from Sweden is shown 
in Plate 6. 

The meteorite collection, to which reference has already lieen made, 
comprises 742 specimens, representing 349 falls. This places it among 
the large collections of the world, being only excelled, so far as we 
have knowledge, by those of Paris, London, Vienna, and the ])ri^■ate 
collections of Prof. H. A. Ward and Mr. C. S. Bement. 

The collections in the Division of Mineralogy are practically all 
labeled, and a case at the south end of the hall has been prepared for 
the reception of the Shepard collection of minerals already noted. 
The text for a catalogue of the gem collection is well under way. 

The question of getting a maximum number of specimens into a case 
with a minimum amount of interference or shadow has been quite 
satisfactorily solved, so far as the Section of Vertebrate Paleontology 
is concerned, b}^ the means shown in Plate 7. As will be noted, shelv- 
ing is quite done awa}' with, with the exception of that afforded by the 
bottom of the case and two narrow shelves at the top for large and 
heavy materials which are often ''out of classification"' as compared 
with the rest of the exhibit. The fossils are cemented to encaustic 
tiles which arc of standard sizes, in units of 4-inch width, and which 
are prevented from falling forward through some sudden jar ))y an 
overlapping edge of wood at the top. By actual trial it has been 
found that, though an apparently wasteful method of installation, so 
far as space is concerned, more material can be actually put into a case 
than when the ordinary horizontal or sloping shelf is used, and, more- 
over, the view of one specimen is never obscured b}' one in front or 
shadowed from alcove. The possibly objectionable features thus far 
discovered are that it limits the size and weight of the specimen 
exhibited and n(H'essitates the cementing of the samples to the tiles. 
The first-mentioned o])jection has proved thus far mainly theoretical, 
space for the larger specimens being readily found on the bottom or 
on the narrow shelves, while the second is avoided l)y not including in 
the series materials that would be injured or whose value would be in 
any way impaired by the cementing process. 



Report of U. S. National tviuseuni, 1900 -Merrill. 



Plate 5. 




Faulted Sandstones. 

Black Hills, South Dakotu, 
For description see page 50. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Merri;j. 



Plate 6. 




Concretionary Granite. 

Slattemo.s.><e, Smiiland Sweden. 

For description see page 50. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Merrill. 



Plate 7. 




View showing Wall Case and Installation of Invertebrate Fossils on Gallery 

OF Southeast Court. 

For description see page 50. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 51 

Th(» view here given (Plate 8) of the gallery in the west south range 
shows better than words the facilities for storage afforded bj'^ the new 
galleries. The Section of Paleobotany has here some 1,900 drawers, 
giving 10,000 square feet, and the Division of Geology 180 drawers, 
giving some 800 square feet of storage space. The table cases around 
the outer edges of the gallery serve as convenient tables for laying out 
material for study, while giving at the same time additional storage 
space beneath. 

ThepaJeobotanical scries is now fairly well systematized and its value 
is becoming recognized, as is shown })y the following quotation from a 
recent number of the American Geologist: 

The United States National Museum lias already become the great depository of 
the coal-plant material in this country, and, with its great number of American types, 
will doubtless remain a center of systematic work in this field. 

For the first time in the history of the Museum all the halls devoted 
to exhibition purposes in geology are open to the public. Much, of 
course, remains to be done, but the confused and unsightly condition 
of affairs which has existed for nearl}^ three 3^ears has subsided. It 
shoidd be stated, however, that the work on the exhibition series of 
the Section of Vertebrate Paleontology has been scarcely begun, and it 
will require years of labor to bring this up to the standard of those 
Avhicli have been longer in existence. 

Tons of material from the Marsh collection are stored in a rented 
building used as a work and store room of the department, where they 
must remain until they can be unpacked, sorted, and cleaned, a task 
which, with the present force, will occupy several years at best. 

KESEARCH. 

For several j^ears past so large a proportion of the energies of the 
curators has been consumed in the work of installation, that very little 
in the way of investigation could be carried on, and almost no work of 
a systematic and far-reaching nature. 

The head curator has devoted considerable time to the meteorite 
collection, and has published a preliminary paper on the stone which 
fell at Allegan, Michigan, in July, 1899. He has also devoted some 
time to the study of the collection of volcanic rocks made by Prof. 
C. H. Hitchcock in the island of Oahu. 

Mr. Tassin has devoted some attention to the subject of hydrolosis 
of the metallic sulphates, especiall}' those of iron, with particular refer- 
ence to the origin of the red colors in sedimentarj^ deposits. His work 
is as yet incomplete. He is also engaged in preparing a handbook on 
the collection of gems and meteorites. 

Mr. Lucas has studied the dentition and general structure of Zeug- 
lodon, and has prepared a paper on the pelvic girdle of the same. He 
has also described a new fossil from the Miocene of California, and 



52 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

studied the Miocene Rhinoceros and Titanotherium, and a new Stego- 
saur from the Lower Cretaceous. He has also devoted some time to 
the study of the skull of Lepidosteus. 

Mr. Schuchert has prepared a preliminary catalogue of Cephalopod 
genera and has devoted considerable attention to the subject of the 
Lower Devonian aspect of the Lower Helderberg and Oriskany for- 
mations. On this subject he is still engaged. He has also continued 
his work on a monograph of the American fossil starfishes. 

SOURCES OF NEW MATERIAL. 

The principal source of material for the Division of Geology, as in 
years past, has been the United States (ieological Survey. In addi- 
tion, mention should be made of the continued interest shown by Mr. 
F. W. Crosby, and of the cooperation of Prof. C. H. Hitchcock, in the 
Hawaiian Islands. 

It will be remembered that in 1887 Dr. (-. U. Shepard, jr., deposited 
in the Museum his meteorite collection, numbering at the time 101 
specimens. During the past year he has again manifested his interest 
in the National Museum by depositing the entire series of books, 
pamphlets, and manuscripts on meteorites, left by his father, the late 
Prof. C. U. Shepard, and, in addition, his private collection of minerals, 
consisting of upward of 5,000 carefully selected specimens, many of 
which are quite rare. The collection is particularly noteworthy for 
the superb series of Graves Mountain rutiles and lazulites, and also 
the series of southern phosphates and their associations. The col- 
lection, as a whole, forms a most important addition to our crys- 
tallographic series, and is of further interest from an historical stand- 
point, containing man}^ of Prof. Shepard's types and illustrating the 
classification prevalent during his day. The acquisition of these old 
collections is a matter of the highest importance, since such often con- 
tain materials from localities now exhausted, or which served as types 
in the original descriptions. Further than this, they serve to keep 
alive the memory of one who was a pioneer in his line of work, 
Prof. Shepard's Treatise on Mineralogy, 1832, being the third work 
on this subject to appear in America from the hands of an American 
author. 

It will be remembered that Prof. O. C. Marsh, of Yale College, 
served as vertebrate paleontologist to the United States Geological 
Survey from 1882 to 1892, inclusive. During these ten years of actual 
service his department received such allotments as enabled him to 
employ continuously from seven to ten persons in the capacities of 
collectors, preparators, clerks, etc., and to accumulate a quantity of 
exceedingly valuable material, a large proportion of which was still at 
New Haven at the time of his death. 

After the death of Professor Marsh it was decided by the Director 
of the Survey, Dr. C. D. Walcott, to transfer the entire collection to 



Repot of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Merrill. 



Plate 8. 




REPOET OP' ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 53 

the custody' of thv National ]Museiini, subject onh' to the usual restric- 
tions. The work of packinj^- and shipping-, which fell to the lot of 
this department, under the inunediate supervision of ]\Ir. F. A. Lucas, 
was begun in April, 1899, as stated in mj^ last report, and completed the 
following Novenil)er, the tinal transfer being made December 8, as will 
be observed frojii an abstract of the correspondence here inserted. 

Department of the Interior, 

United States Geological Survey, 

December 8, 1899. 
Prof. S. P. Lang ley, 

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, Waslungtun, D. C. 

Dear Sir: I have the honor to state that all the %ertebrate collections of the late 
Prof. O. C. Marsh, belonging to the Government, have been shipped from New 
Haven, Conn., and are now transferred to the custody of the United States National 
Museum, subject only to the use of such material as may be necessary for study and 
illustration in the completion of the monographs that were in course of preparation 
by Professor Marsh at the time of his death. 

From a statement submitted by Mr. F. A. Lucas, who had charge of the packing 
of the collections, it appears that there were 1,200 trays (20 by 26 inches) of speci- 
mens, 200 unopened boxes as received from the field, 30 blocks, and 90 prepared 
specimens. To ship this material required 592 boxes, forming 5 carloads, having an 
aggregate Aveight of 160,000 pounds. To this tliere should be added 2 carloads, con- 
taining 211 boxes, received from Professor Marsh on deposit in 1891 and 1898. 

The actual number of specimens represented in this collection can not be stated. 
They range in size from minute teeth of fossil mammals to individual specimens 
weighing from 500 to 2,000 pounds each. The collections are rich in large Dinosauria, 
especially in examples of Triceratops and Stegosaurus, while the series of Titanothe- 
rium skulls is one of the best, if not the best, in existence. It contains fifty or more 
complete examples cleaned, and a number in the rough, besides many hundred 
bones. 

Among the specimens transferred are the types of forty or more species, including 
Dinosaurs, and Jurassic, Cretaceous, and Tertiary mammals. Among the types are 
the following: 

Dinosaurs. Jurassic mammals. 

Diplodocus longus. Paurodon valens. 

Labrosaurus ferox. Manacodon rarus. 

Camptosauriis nanus. Enneodon crassus. 

Triceratops sulcatus. Enneodon qffi7iis. 

Triceratops californis. iModon venustus. 
Triceratops obtusa. Crefaceous mammals. 

I'leorocceius nanus. Priconodon crassus. 

Ceratosaurus nasicornis. Oimolodon agilis. 

Ceratops montanus. Telacodon prxstans. 

Ceratops aUicomis. Oracodon cenulus. 

Crocodiles. Allacodon pumilis. 

Khylidodon rostratus. Batodon tenuis. 

Snakes. Allacodon fortis. 
Coniophis precedens. 

It is to be recalled that these collections were made by Professor Marsh during his 
connection with the Geological Survey, from 1882 to 1892, inclusive; that prior to his 
connection with the Survey he made large collections, including the toothed birds, 



54: REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

the DbioceraUi, Jironlomurux, in<xny Dinosaurs, and the best Titanotherium yet dis- 
covered. He also purchased iiunieruus collections after the stopping of allotments 
for liis work in 1892. These collections were transferred to Yale University some 
time prior to his death. 

As there has been considerable comment in relation to this matter, I send you a 
copy of a report on the examination of the collections under Professor Marsh's 
charge, made by me to the Director of the Geological Survey, in 1892. 

I twice visited New' Haven while the collections were being packed, and am fully 
convinced that all material belonging to the Government has been transferred to 
Washington. Mr. Lucas reports that the trustees of the Peabody Museum in New 
Haven gave him every facility for packing the collections, and that the records were 
so comx)lete that no difficulties arose in determining those specimens which belonged 
to the Government and those which were the property of the Peabody Museum. 

The transfer of these great collections to Washington without the loss of any mate- 
rial, either through imperfect recording or through misunderstanding as to the owner- 
ship of specimens, reflects the greatest credit on the business-like luethods and the 
integrity of Professor Marsh. The addition of the material to the National jMuseum 
places it in the front rank among museums in its collection of vertebrate fossils. It 
is necessary that some gaps in the collections l)e filled, and I sincerely trust it will 
be possible for the Museum to do this at an early date. 
Yours respectfully, 

Chas. D. Walcott, Director. 

Smithsonian Institution, December 22, 1899. 

Dear Sir: I take great pleasure in acknowledging the receipt of your letter of the 
8th instant, advising me that you have transferred to the National Museum all the 
vertebrate fossils collected by the late Prof. O. C. Marsh belonging to the United 
States Government, subject only to the condition that such material as is required 
may be used for study and illustration in completing the monographs which were in 
prejiaration by Professor Marsh at the time of his death. 

The addition of this immense collection of most important American fossil remains 
to the treasures already assembled in the National Museum will, I am sure, afford 
the greatest satisfaction to all workers in the field of paleontology ))oth at home and 
abroad, and you will permit me to add a personal word in appreciation of your untir- 
ing efforts to facilitate in every way possil)le the great task connected with the 
removal of the collection from New Haven to Washington. 

During the coming year I expect to have two preparators engaged in working out 
of the matrix specimens still uncleaned, and confidently hope that it may be possi- 
ble in a few years to have the entire collection made available for study and a 
selected series for public exhibition. From this latter series the public will be able 
to form a correct idea as to the number, variety, and great size of these wonderful 
extinct creatures of the western country, and will undoubtedly be impressed \\ith 
the extent and importance of the work of the paleoutological divisions of the Geolog- 
ical Survey and the marvelous industry and intelligence displayed by Professor 
Marsh in bringing together this great collection. 

Yours respectfully, S. P. IjAN(jlev, Secretary': 

Hon. Charles D. AValcott, 

Director United States Geological Survey, Washington, 7). C. 

As may readily be imagined, the receipt of these enormous collec- 
tions, many of which were still uncleaned and in the matrix, single 
specimens in some instances weighing several thousand pounds, taxed 
the resources of the Department greatly. Fortunately the gallery in 
the oast south range was completed, and, when fitted with standard 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 900.— Merrill. 



Plate 9. 




REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 55 

storage racks and drawers, furnished room for such of the material as 
was ahead}" cleaned. A very large share of the material could^not 
however. ])e brought into the Museum building without blocking the 
exhibition halls, and was, therefore, stored as fast as received, without 
unpacking, in a rented building, as already noted. 

In June, 1899, the Union Pacitic Railroad Company extended to the 
Smithsonian Institution an invitation to send a representative of the 
Museum to participate in a collecting and exploring tour through 
the fossil fields of Wyoming. This invitation was accepted, and Mr, 
Charles Schuchert, assistant curator in the Division of Invertebrate 
Fossils, was detailed to make the trip. Mr. Schuchert left Washing- 
ton early in July and returned the last week in September. 

During this time, aside from man}' valuable observations, he col- 
lected upward of 1,000 Jurassic invertebrates, and a verj^ complete 
femur of a large Dinosaur, and purchased and donated to the Museum 
the particularly tine gar, Lepidosteus atrox, shown in Plate 0. He 
also obtained numerous lithological and mineralogical specimens. 

Inasmuch as there is much popular misapprehension regarding the 
occurrence and mode of procedure in collecting these vertebrate remains, 
or rather since the public at large has no adequate conception of the 
skill and expense involved in collecting and so restoring such remains 
that they may be of value for exhibition and study, I have introduced 
the following extract from an article published b}^ Mr. Schuchert in 
Science for November 17, 1899: 

In the very beginning, alarming setbacks are encountered when chmbingthe hills 
in any direction for a "bone lead." Having the good fortune to discover one, the 
real work then begins in the digging, only to find that every bone is cracked into 
innumerable pieces. These nnist be bandaged and set in plaster, and when all is 
hard the bones can be turned to undergo more bandaging. This means that one 
must have patience, be expert with pick and shovel, with gumiy sacking and jjlaster, 
and with saw and hammer. However, with all these difficulties to overcome, no 
less than 6 carloads of bones were shipped this summer from Medicine Bow, a little 
village on the Union Pacific Railroad in Wyoming, l)y si)ecially organized parties 
from the universities of Wyoming and Kansas, and the Fielil, Carnegie, and American 
museums of natural history. 

In no one place are complete Dinosaur skeletons found. Sometimes a "quarry " 
will yield a lot of vertebrai, or a number of either hind or fore limbs, or there is a 
general mixture of parts of animals of different genfera. To make an adequate col- 
lec;tion of Jurassic Dinosaurs, therefore, requires several successful field seasons. The 
cost is still further enhanced since in the laboratory the bones nuist be cleaned, 
hardened, and restored before they are ready for study and exhibition. On accomit 
of these conditions and the further one that Dinosaur skeletons are very large, the 
work is extremely expensive. We can, therefore, believe that the best skeleton of 
Brontosanrus in Professor Mareh's collection, an imperfect one, cost him $10,000. 

No systematic explorations with a view to enriching the collections 
in paleobotany, mineralogy, or geology were undiniakon, though a 
very considerable amount of material was obtained by exchange. 



56 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

ASSlSTANt^K AFFOKDED STUDENT8 AND INVESTIGATORS. 

During the year there have been sent out from the Division of 
Geology some 18 lots of material, comprising 284 specimens for study 
and by exchange. 

Specimens from the duplicate collection in the Division of Miner- 
alogy have been furnished Dr. F. W. Clarke for use in his work on 
the composition of the various silicates, noted in the bibliograph}', 
and also to other members of the Geological Survej^ as occasion 
required. Mention should here be made of a lot of carnotite furnished 
to Dr. Hillebrand for his investigations, the results of which are not 
yet published. 

The fine specimen of Lepidosteus simplex from the Section of Verte- 
brate Paleontology was lent to Dr. C. R. Eastman, of Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, and has been returned. The type specimen of Eqmis 
excelsus and other bones belonging to this genus have been lent to Mr. 
J. W. Gidley, of the American Museum of Natural Historj'^ at New 
York, where thej'^ still remain. 

From the Section of Invertebrate Paleontology collections were lent 
for purposes of study to Dr. Anton Fritsch, of Prague; Dr. E. Schell- 
wein, of Konigsberg, and Dr. G. Hambach, of St. Louis, Missouri. 

In accordance with the usual practice, facilities for study have been 
afforded to students not officially connected with the institution, when 
such could be done without too much interference with Museum work. 
Dr. E. C. E. Lord, as in the year previous, has passed some time in the 
laboratoiy of the department engaged in the study of eruptive rocks 
from the coast of Maine. Mr. M. W. Twitchell, a graduate student 
of the Columbian University, has utilized the goniometer and other 
facilities in the Division of Mineralogy in the work of preparing his 
thesis for an advanced degree. Dr. O. P. Hay has spent some time 
in the study of the paleozoic fishes, and Dr. C. R. Eastman has utilized 
Museum material in the preparation of a paper on the fossil gar. Dr. 
A. S. Woodward, of the British Museum, made a brief examination 
''f the types of various fossil fishes in our collections. Mr. R. B. 
Rowe, of the Maryland Geological Survey, Prof. John M. Nichols, of 
Cincinnati, and Mr. E. H. Sellards, of the University of Kansas, have 
also had access to Museum materials in connection with their own 
work. 

FUTURE WORK. 

No radical changes in the plans for the work in any of the divisions 
of the department are contemplated. There remains yet a large amount 
of work to be done in the exhibition series in vertebrate paleontology 
and paleobotany, which will doubtless consume the greater portion of 
the time of thoj^e in charge of these divisions for an indefinite period. 

Prior to the reorganization of the Museum in 1897, the catalogues 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 57 

of the vaiioLi.s divisions had been kept quite independenth' of and with- 
out sufficient regard to each othei-, and in many cases the work was 
ver\' imperfectly done, owing to lack of sufficient assistance. Under 
the present administration an attempt is being made to centralize and 
harmonize the work of cataloguing. This will, however, involve the 
rewriting of probably 200,000 entries as well as much careful over- 
hauling- of the records, and is a work which we can not hope to accom- 
plish within several years. It is the intention of the head curator to 
give particular attention to this work during the coming year. 

The department has now arrived at that stage in the building up of 
its collections where a proportionately small amount of material of 
value is received in the form of donations. If, therefore, the collec- 
tions are to be systematic and well balanced, a considerable amount of 
mone}' must be available for purposes of purchase. This is a matter 
which has been repeatedly urged and needs no further mention. 



,4 



SUMMARY OF THE OPERATIONS OF THE YEAR. 



THE MUSEUM STAFF. 

The executive curator, Dr. Frederick W. True, continued in direct 
charge of the administration of the Museum during the year, the 
Assistant Secretary exercising onl}- a general supervision over its 
affairs. 

There have been but few changes in connection with the scientific 
staff. In the death of Mr. Frank Hamilton Gushing on April 10, 1900, 
the Museum, as well as the Bureau of Ethnology, lost one of its most 
active and distinguished workers during nearly a quarter of a century. 
Medical Director James M. Flint, XL S. N. , under whose supervision 
the Division of Materia Medica was established in 1881, and who has 
been its honorarj' curator, under detail by the Secretarj'^ of the Navy, 
for three separate periods, aggregating about thirteen 3'ears, was 
placed on the retired list of the Nav}^ in February, 1900. Proposing 
to continue his residence in Washington, however, Doctor Flint has 
volunteered his further services in the same capacity and they have 
been gladly accepted. 

Mr. W. R. Maxon was appointed an aid in the Division of Plants in 
November, 1899. 

A list of the members of the scientific and adniinistrative staffs will 
be found in Appendix I. 

APPROPRIATIONS AND EXPENDITURES. 

The total amount appropriated by Congress for the maintenance of 
the Museum during the year ending June 30, 1900, was $238,5-10, as 
against $257,000 for the previous year. The only changes in the sev- 
eral items, as compared with 1899, were an increase of $5,000 under 
preservation of collections and of $2,000 under building repairs, and a 
decrease of $10,000 under furniture and fixtures and of $4<)0 under 
rent of workshops. The sundry civil act for 1899 also contained two 
special items, one of $10,000 for the construction of galleries and one 
of $5,000 for the purchase of the scientific library of the late Dr. G. 
Brown Goode, which are mainly accountable for the larger appropri- 
ation in that yeai'. 

59 



60 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



The expenditures actually made from the appropriations for 1900 
up to the end of that fiscal year aggregated $224:, 912. 42, leaving a 
balance of $13,627.58 to meet outstanding liabilities. During the 
same year $12,284.88 were disbursed from the balance ($12,629.63) of 
the appropriation for 1899 remaining- on July 1, 1899. 

The following tables show the expenditures during- 1899-1900 from 
the appropriations for the past two 3'ears and the balances on hand on 
June 30, 1900: 



Appropriations and expenditures for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900. 



Object. 



Appropria- 
tions. 



Expendi- 
tures. 



Balance on 

hand June 

30, 1900. 



Preservation of collections 

Furniture and fixtures (including $10,000 for furnishing new 

galleries) 

Heating, lighting, and electrical service ,. . . 

Books , 



Postage 

Building repairs 

Kent of workshops . . . 
Printing and binding 

Total 



1170,000 

25,000 
14,000 
2,000 
500 
6,000 
4,040 
17,000 



SIGO, 866. 18 

24,424.76 
13, 438. 04 
1,121.28 
500.00 
5, 748. 93 
4, 039. 92 
14, 773. 31 



238, 540 



224,912.42 



9, 133. 82 

575. 24 
561.96 
878. 72 



251.07 

.08 

2, 226. 69 



13,627.58 



Disbursements from unexpended balances of appropriations for the fiscal year ending June 

30, 1899. 



Object. 



Balance 

June 30, 

1899. 



Expendi- 
tures. 



Balance 

June 30, 

1900. 



Preservation of collections ■ 14, 661. 94 

Furniture and fixtures 995. 28 

Heating and lighting 1 , 780. 02 

Books 699.57 

Building repairs 81. 08 

Galleries I 4, 301. 66 

Eent of workshops j 110. 08 

Total I 12, 629. 63 



$4, 660. 41 

993. 93 

1, 780. 01 

674. 49 

80.17 

4,095.87 



12,284.88 



«1.53 

1.35 

.01 

25.08 

.91 

205. 79 

110. 08 



344. 75 



Disbursements to the extent of $88 were also made on account of 
preservation of collections for 1897-98, leaving a balance under that 
item on June 30, 1900, of $9.28. Other balances remaining from the 
appropriations for the same year, all of which now revert to the sur- 
plus fund of the Treasury, are as follows: Furniture and fixtures, $1. 23; 
heating- and lighting, $5.49; building repairs, $4.53; galleries, $8.87; 
rebuilding sheds. $0.78. 

The appropriations for the year ending June 30, 1901, are as follows: 

Preservation of collections $180, 000 

Furniture and fixtures (including $2,500 for furnishing a new lecture hall).. 17, 500 
Heating, lighting, and electrical service (including |3,500 for electrical in- 
stallation) 17, 500 

Postage 500 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



61 



Books, pamphlets, and periodicals $2, 000 

Repairs to buildings, shops, and sheds 15, 000 

Rent of workshops and temporary storage quarters 4, 040 

Printing and binding 17, 000 

Purchase of specimens 10, 000 

Total 263, 540 

BUILDINGS. 

Skylights have been placed in the roof of the Museum building above 
the four courts and above the west south, east south, and south east 
ranges, in all of which the lighting has been poor, especially since the 
construction of galleries in them. The galleries in the east, west, and 
south halls and the stairways leading to the galleries from tlie rotunda 
have been furnished with iron railings, and the gallery in the south 
east range has been extended so as to form a complete second story, 
adding much needed room for laboratory and storage purposes. 

The old wooden floor in the main hall of the Smithsonian building, 
occupied by the exhibition collections of birds and mollusks, has been 
replaced by a terrazzo pavement, a change long contemplated, which 
greatly improves the comfort and appearance of the hall. 

ACCESSIONS AND REGISTRATION. 

The additions to the collections during the year were embraced in 
1,467 accessions and numbered 206,617 specimens, which increases the 
total number of specimens in the Museum to 1,819,836. The following 
table gives the additions and totals under the Museum classification: 

Number of specimens received in 1899-1900, and total number in the several divisions on 

JnneSO, 1900. 



Division. 



Received 
in 1899-1900. 



Total. 



Anthropology: 

Ethnology 

Historic archeology . . . 

Prehistoric archseology 

Technology 

Graphic arts 

Medicine 

Religions 

History and biography 

Somatology 

Ceramics 

Photography 

Music 

Biology: 

Mammals 

Birds 



2,387 

13 

29, 939 

156 

28 



Birds' eggs 

Reptiles and batrachians i 

1 Including material recently added to the Department of Agricultun: 



1 
903 
7 
118 
10 
10 

4,814 

4,988 

159 

1,263 

series. 



456,295 

1,989 

307, 957 

30,784 
7,383 
6,800 
2,367 

38,086 
2,316 
4, 127 
1,781 
1,435 

'31,830 

1 120, 047 

64,820 

40,240 



62 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Number of .specimens received in 1899-1900, and total number in the screral divisionft on 

June 30, 1900— Continued. 



Division. 



Biology — C^oiitiiuK'd. 

Fishes 

Mollusks , 

Inserts 

^^arinc invertebrates 

Helmintliologieal collections. . 

Comparative anatomy 

Plants 

Forestry 

Geology: 

Physical and cliemioal geology. 

Mineralogy 

Invertebrate paleontology , 

Vertebrate paleontology 

Paleobotany 

Total 



Received 
in 1899-1900. 



1,200 
8,854 
85,000 
3,917 
8 
48 
45, 221 



2, 830 
5, 623 
7,477 
243 
1,400 



152,501 

748,871 

U, 333, 370 

2507,366 

4,953 

15,633 

436,462 

749 

80, 693 
35, 150 

385, 841 



206, 617 4, 819, 836 



1 Including Department of Agriculture material. 

2The apparent decrease since June 30, 1899, is explained )iy the assignment of a very large number 
of specimens to purposes of distribution. 

The number of entries made in the catalogues of the several divi- 
sions was 22,622. In Appendix II will be found a complete list of the 
accessions for the year. 

The number of accessions received annually since 1880 has been as 
follows: 



Year. 



1881 

1882 

1883 

1884 

1885 (January to June) 

1886 

1887 

1888 

1889 

1890 

1891 

1892 

1893 

1894 

1895 

1896 

1897 

1898 

1899 

1900 



Accession 

numbers 

(inclusive). 



9890-11000 
11001-12500 
12.501-13900 
13901-15550 
15551-16208 
16209-17704 
17705-19350 
19351-20831 
20832-22178 
22179-23340 
23341-24527 
24528-25884 
25885-27150 
27151-28311 
28312-29534 
29535-30833 
30834-32300 
32301-33741 
33742-35238 
35239-36705 



Number of 
accessions 

during 
the year. 



1,111 

1,500 
1,400 
1,650 
658 
1,496 
1,646 
1,481 
1,347 
1,162 
1,187 
1,357 
1,266 
1,161 
1,223 
1,299 
1,467 
1, 441 
1,497 
1,467 



REPOKT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 



63 



Seventeen thousand nine hundred and seventy packages have been 
received by the registrar, besides 20,824 volumes of publications. 
One thousand one hundred and sixty-three packages contained material 
for the Museum collections, and 1,236 supplies of various kinds. Three 
thousand six hundred and fourteen packages were sent out. 

DISTRIBUTION AND EXCHANGE. 

Twenty-six thousand and four specimens have been sent out as gifts 
or in exchange, and 12,177 specimens have been lent for study. The 
gifts have consisted chiefly of rocks, minerals, marine invertebrates, 
and casts of prehistoric implements, presented, in accordance with a 
long-estal)lishcd practice, to educational institutions in all parts of the 
United States. The distributions of all kinds are given in detail in 
Appendix III. The following table shows the number of "lots'' of 
specimens sent to each State and foreign countr}^: 



Alabama 4 

Arizona 1 

California 13 

Colorado 9 

Connecticut 10 

Delaware '2 

District of Columbia 18 

Florida 1 

Georgia 1 

Illinois 24 

Indiana 2 

Iowa 8 

Kansas 6 

Maine 2 

:\Iaryland 2 

[Massachusetts 32 

INIichigan 5 

[Minnesota 5 

Missouri 11 

Nebraska 1 

New Hampshire 3 

New Jersey 6 

New Mexico 6 

Nevada 1 

New York 46 

North Carolina 4 

Ohio 5 

Oregon 2 

Pennsylvania 19 

Rhode Island 2 

South Carolina 1 



Tennessee 1 

Texas 3 

Utah 2 

Vermont 4 

Virginia 3 

Washington 3 

West Virginia 2 

Wisconsin 4 

Wyoming 2 

Foreign countries: 

Argentina 1 

Australia 2 

Austria 7 

Belgium 1 

Brazil 1 

Canada 5 

Denmark 1 

England 24 

France 9 

Qermany 11 

Holland 1 

India 1 

Italy 7 

New Zealand 2 

Norway 1 

Russia 4 

Scotland 2 

South Africa 1 

Sweden 3 

Switzerland 3 



Among the more important exclianges received from establishments 
and individuals abroad were the following: Co-types of Nectoinys 
fiai'leppi from the British Museum of Natural History, London, 
England; a collection of tishes, crustaceans, and echinoderms from 



64 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Mr. H. W. Parritt, London, England; a collection of amulets in Bohe- 
mian glass, representing teeth of various animals, from Mr. Edward 
Lovett, Croydon, England; collections of insects and crustaceans from 
the Museum of Natural History, Paris, France; tishes from the Italian 
coast and the Red Sea, from the Museum of Natural History, Milan, 
Italy; invertebrate fossils from Mr. D. Socoloff, Orenburg, Russia; 
many ethnological objects from islands in the South Seas, and a collec- 
tion of Moa bones, from Canterbur\' Museum, Christchurch, New 
Zealand; natural history and archaeological specimems from the Public 
Museum, Wanganui, New Zealand; specimens of Eocene and Oligo- 
cene fossils from Mr. F. K. McK. Grant, Melbourne, Victoria; collec- 
tions of plants from the Natal Botanic Gardens, Durban, South Africa; 
specimens of fossil brachiopods from the Museu Paulista, Sao Paulo, 
Bi"azil. 

Material, for which return had not been made at the close of the 
year, was sent abroad, as follows: Specimens of crabs to the Zoolog- 
ical ]\Iuseum, Turin, Italy; 100 skins and skulls of North American 
nianmials, and several Indian baskets, to the Ro3'al Zoological Museum, 
Dresden, Germany; 128 specimens of Lower Cretaceous fossils, rep- 
resenting 30 species, to the Geological-Paleontological Institute, 
Munich, German}^; 900 plants to the Freie Vereinigung Tiroler 
Botaniker, Dellach in Oberdrauthale, Carinthia, Austria; 97 speci- 
mens of Lepidoptera, representing 36 species from North America, 
Asia, and Africa, to Mr. G. Ruscherveyh, Buenos Ayres, Argentina. 



VISITORS. 

The luimber of persons who visited the Museum building was 
225,440, and the Smithsonian building 133,147. The following tables 
show, respectively, the attendance during each month of the past 
year, and during each year since 1880: 

Number of visitors during the fiscal year 1899-1900. 



Year and month. 



Museum Smithsonian 
buiMing. building. 



July 

August 

September . 

October 

November . 
December. . 



January.. 
February 
March . . . 

April 

May 

June 



1899. 



1900. 



Totiil 

Approxiinato daily average on a basis of 313 days in the year. 



12,563 
17,492 
32,374 
20, 735 
12,668 
16,223 



16,180 
15,992 
27, 385 
26, 301 

18, 539 



225,440 
720 



5,960 
9,364 
14,951 
12,099 
8,021 
10, 440 

7,892 
8,767 
11, 472 
17,028 
14, 650 
12,503 



133,147 
425 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY, 



65 



Xumber of visitors to the Museum and Sniithsoitian huiMitiijs 

former in 1881. 



<niri' till- DpeiiitK/ itf the 



Year. 



1881 

1882 , 

1883 

1884 (half year) 

1884-851 

1885-86 , 

1886-87 

1887-88 

1888-89' 

1889-90 

1890-91 

1891-92 

1892-931 

1893-94 

1894-95 

1895-96 

1896-97 1 , 

1897-98 

1898-99 , 

1899-1900 



Total. 



Miist'iim 
building. 


Smithsonian 
building. 


150,000 


100,000 


167,455 


152, 744 


202, 188 


104, 823 


97,661 


45, 565 


205,026 


105,993 


174,225 


88,960 


216,562 


98,552 


249,665 


102,863 


374,843 


149,618 


274,324 


120,894 


286,426 


111,669 


269, 825 


114,817 


319,930 


174, 188 


195, 748 


103,910 


201,744 


105, 658 


180,505 


103,650 


229,606 


115,709 


177,254 


99,273 


192, 471 


116,912 


225, 440 


133, 147 


4, 390, 898 


2, 248. 945 



Yenrs of Presiidcntial inaugurations. 



RESEARCHES. 

All account of the researches carried on by members of the Museum 
stiitf will be found in the reports of the head curators. A great deal 
of the work of identifying and monographing the collections is, how- 
ever, performed by persons not connected with the Museum, but for 
the most part having relations with other establishments of learning 
either in this country or abroad. Such services are, with rare excep- 
tions, rendered gratuitously, even though they be directh^ solicited 
on the part of the Museum. In xgv\ man}' cases, the use of speci- 
mens is given to aid in the preparation of reports undertaken in the 
interest of the expert himself or in behalf of the institution to which 
he belongs, the Museum benefiting indirectly. It is arranged, wherever 
possible, to have these investigations conducted in Washington, and 
specimens are only sent awa}' for stud}' when their safety can be 
definitely assured. Considerable progress has been made during the 
year, under this practice, in the working up of collections. 

From the Department of Anthropology, a series of Shoshone and 
Ute crania was lent to Dr. A. Hrdlicka, of the American Museum 
of Natural History, New York, and a part of the collection of primi- 
tive games to Mr. Stewart Culin. director of the museum of the 
Tniversit}' of Pennsj'lvania. It mav also be mentioned here that a 
number of the models of vehicles from the collections illustrating 

NAT MUS 1900 5 



66 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

land ti'iiM.sportation were .sent for copying to the Curnegie Museum 
at Pittsburg, and many models from the historical series of electrical 
apparatus were turned over to the United States Commissioner- 
General for exhi))ition at the Paris Exposition. 

In zoology, the collections of mammals and birds have Ijeen util- 
ized l)y the Biological Survey of the Department of Agriculture, 
and those of fishes by the Fish Commission. Studies have been con- 
ducted at the Museum ])y Mr. Outram Bangs, of Boston, Mass., on 
the ])irds recently received from the region about Panama; by Dr. Louis 
B. Bishop, of New Haven, Conn., on Alaskan birds in connection 
with those collected ]>y him in the Yukon region, and by Dr. A. W. 
Graham, on the Fusidai, a family of mollusks. Miss Harriet Richard- 
son has continued her work on the Isopod crustaceans; Mr. T. Way- 
land Vaughan, of the Geological Survey, his studies of West Indian 
and other recent corals, and Prof. W. P. Hay, of Howard Univer- 
sity, his investigations on crayfishes. 

Arrangements for monographing the extensive collection of Holo- 
thurians were made with Prof. Hubert Lyman Clark, of Olivet College, 
Mic-higan, and Prof. C. L. Edwards, of Trinity College, Hartford, 
Conn., and the specimens have been sent to them. The Pedata were 
assigned to Professor Edwards and the Apoda to Professor Clark. 
Additional specimens of leeches were forwarded to Prof. J. Percy 
Moore, of the University of Pennsylvania, who has for some time 
been engaged in working up the Museum's material in this group. 

The principal loans of zoological material have been as follows: 
The collection of lemmings to Mr. Witmer Stone, of the Philadelphia 
Academy of Natural Sciences; the collection of meadow larks to Mr. 
F. M. Chapman, of the American Museum of Natural History, who is 
engaged upon a revision of the genus SUirnella; the collection of 
Japanese and Korean fishes to President David S. Jordan, of Leland 
Stanford Junior University; the crustaceans of the family Alpheidi\i 
to Di-. 11. Coutiere, of the Museum of Natural History, Paris, France, 
and of the genus Pdlmnonetea to Mr. Robert W. Hall, of Ncw^ Haven, 
Comi.; a collection of Diptera to Prof. R. W. Doane, of the Museum 
of Comparative Zoology; a collection of Hymenoptera to Prof. T. D. 
A. C'ockerell, of Mesilla Park, N. Mex., and specimens of the family 
Saldidje to Prof. H. E. Summers, of the Iowa Agricultural College. 
Entomological specimens have also been supplied to Dr. Sanuiel H. 
Scudder, of Cambridge, Mass.; Prof. John B. Smith, of Rutgers Col- 
lege, New Brunswick, N. J.; Prof. C. H. Fernald, of the Massachusetts 
Agricultural College; Rev. George B. Hulst, of Brooklyn, N. Y.; Dr. 
Herman Strecker, of Reading, Pa., and Mr. William Beutenmiiller, 
of the American Museum of Natural History. 

SY)Ccimeiis of ])lants were lent to a large number of persons, the 
principal sendings having been to the Gray Herl)arium, at Cambridge, 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY, 67 

Mas.s. ; Dr. N. L. Biittoii, of the Now York Botanical Gardens; Prof. 
L. M. Underwood, of Columbia University; Dr. William Trelease, of 
the Missouri Botanical Garden; Mr. W. W. Ashe, of the North Caro- 
lina Geolog-ical Survey; Mr. L. F, Henderson, Boston, Mass.; Mr. 
Alvah A. Eaton, Seahrook, N. H.; Mr. Williard N. Clute, Bin.oham- 
ton, N. Y.; Dr. B. W. F^vermann and Theodor Holm, Washington, 
D. C. , and Mr. Anton Heimel, Vienna, Austria. 

The facilities atl'orded by the Department of Geology have been 
availed of by several persons, including- assistants of the United States 
Geological Survey. The eruptive rocks from the coast of Maine were 
studied by Dr. E. C. E. Lord. The types of certain fossil tishes were 
examined by Dr. A. S. Woodward, of the British Museum. The pale- 
ozoic tishes were studied l)y Dr. O. P. Hay, of the Ariierican Museum of 
Natural History, and the fossil gars by Dr. C. K. Eastman, of the 
Museum of Comparative Zoology. Among others who had access to 
the collections were Mr, K. B. Rowe, of the Maryland Geological Sur- 
vey; Mr. PI H. Sellards, of the University of Kansas, and Pi-of. John 
M. Nichols, of Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Collections of invertebrate fossils Avere lent to Dr. Anton Fritsch, 
of Prague. Bohemia; Dr. E. Schellwein. of Konigsberg, Prussia, and 
Dr. G. Hambach. of St. Louis, Mo.; and a number of specimens of 
fossil horse remains were sent to Mr. J. W. Gidley, of the American 
Museum of Natural History. 

COOPEKATIOK OF THE EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT. 

The relations of the Museum with the P^xecutive Departments have 
been greatly extended during the last few years, especially as regards 
the War and Navy Departments in connection with their operations 
across the seas, through the cordial assistance rendered })y officers of 
these tw^o services. The historical and ethnological collections were 
the first to be benefited, but latterly more attention has ])een giAon to 
the natural features of the new possessions, and many interesting con- 
tributions in zoology and botany are now being received. It is hoped 
that the interest thus stiimdated will lead to important results in this 
direction. In P^uropean countries the military branches of the gov- 
ernments have done nuich toward enriching the coU(»ctions of their 
national museums, and it would be exceedingly unfortunate Avere the 
exceptional opportunities now presented to our own country and our 
own National Museum to be neglected. 

The State Department, through its diplomatic and consular officers, 
has also ))een instrumental in scM-uring nuich valual)le material. The 
receipts from the Pish Commission, consisting mainly of zoological 
I'oUections obtained on the Porto Kican expedition of the steamer 
T'V.s/i Jlairk^ have ]>een of great interest. The United States Geological 
Survey has transmitted material from many sources, but of most 



68 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

importance, and constituting perhaps the largest single accession ever 
received, was the well-known collection of vertebrate fossils assembled 
under the direction of the late Prof. O. 0. Marsh, of Yale University. 
The scientific branches of the Department of Agriculture which engage 
in field collecting, the Biological Survey, the Division of Entomology, 
and the Division of Botany, have, as in past years, deposited in the 
Museum the main parts of the material resulting from the year's work. 
The collections received from the Bureau of American Ethnology have 
been extensive and noteworthy. 

Acknowledgment is due to several of the Departments for courtesies 
in connection with administrative matters, especially deserving of men- 
tion being the facilities atl'orded for the transportation of collections 
and assistants by the Quartermaster's Department of the Army. 

EXPLORATIONS. 

Although having very limited means for field investigations, at least 
a few^ members of the Museum staff spend a month or more during 
every year in adding to the collections, making their trips independently 
or in connection with expeditions sent out by other Government 
bureaus or under private auspices. Much important material is 
obtained in this way. 

Dr. F. W. True spent several weeks of the summer of 1899 at the 
station of the Gabot Steam Whaling Gompany, in Newfoundland, study- 
ing the finback and humpback whales, which are taken along that coast 
in large numbers. 

Anthropological researches were carried on in Gul^a and Jamaica 
during the spring of 1900 by Maj. J. W. Powell, Director of the 
Bureau of American Ethnology, and Mr. William H. Holmes, head 
curator of anthropology, who collected many objects illustrating the 
ancient peoples of those islands. 

Extensive zoological and botanical collections were made in Guba 
and Porto Rico for the Pan-American Exposition of 1901 by Dr. 
Leonhard Stejneger, Dr. Gharles W. Richmond, Mr. William Palmer, 
and Mr. J. H. Riley, of the Museum staff'. The groups of animals 
chiefly represented were birds, reptiles and batrachians, fishes, bats, 
insects, cnistaceans and annelids. The Philippine Islands were visited 
in behalf of the same exposition l)y Gol. H. M. Hilder, of the Bureau 
of American Ethnology, who secured a large amount of interesting 
material bearing upon the native tribes and the history of the islands. 

The expedition to central and southern Mexico by Dr. J. N. Rose 
and Dr. Walter Hough, which started in the spring of 1899, as noted 
in the last report, contiimed during a part of the summer and was 
very successful. Its object was the collecting of botanical and ethno- 
botanical specimens, the latter including plants used in the arts, both 
ancient and modern, and examples of native handiwork. At the close 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 69 

of the year Mr. Marcus W. Lyon, jr.. was in Venezuela with Lieut. 
Wirt Robinson, U. S. A., having- been detailed to make collections of 
the higher vertebrates. Mr. Barton A. Bean was in the Vineyard 
Sound region of Massachusetts during part of the summer of 1899 
in the interest of the Division of Fishes. 

During the summer of 1899 Mr. Charles Schuchert accompanied an 
expedition under the auspices of the Union Pacific Railroad Companj' 
to the fossil })eds of Wyoming, where he obtained many Jurassic 
invertebrate fossils, the fenuir of a large Dinosaur, and a large nunil)er 
of lithological and mineralogical specimens. In company with Prof. 
Lester F. Ward, he also collected an interesting series of fossil cycads 
in the same State. 

On the expedition to Alaska during June and Jul}-, 1899, so elabo- 
rately equipped and carried out at the expense of Mr. E. H. Harriman, 
of New York, the National Museum was represented l)v Mr. William 
H. Dall, Mr. Robert Ridgway, Dr. C. Hart Merriam, and Mr. F. V. 
Coville. The birds, insects, mollusks. and plants obtained have })een 
transferred to the Museum, the plants coming through the Department 
of Agriculture, while the insects, collected by Mr. Trevor Kincaid, of 
Seattle, AA'ash., were presented by Mr. Harriman. Before returning 
to Washington Mr. Dall visited the Hawaiian Islands, where he made 
an important collection of mollusks. 

The Government explorations which contribute most constantly and 
extensively to the Museum are those conducted l)v the Geological 
Survey, the Fish Commission, and the scientitic Inireaus of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, in all of which there was nuich activity during 
the past year. The cruise of the Fish Commission steamer Alhatroxs 
to the South Pacitic Ocean offered an opportunity for securing ethno- 
logical ol)jects from man}' interesting islands, and through the courtes}' 
of the Commissioner of Fisheries two of the naturalists attached to the 
expedition, Mr. C. H. Townsend and Mr. H. F. Moore, were author- 
ized to collect in this field. They were successful in obtaining much 
valual)le material. Explorations under the Department of Agriculture 
have b«>en illustrated by extensive collections of plants made in Alaska 
by Mr. F. V. Coville and Mr. T. H. Kearney, and in Virginia and 
North Carolina by Mr. Kearney, and by an interesting collection of 
insects gathered in Porto Rico by Mr. August Busck, and of crusta- 
ceans obtained in Texas and Mexico by Messrs. Vernon Bailey, E. W. 
Nelson, and B. A. (Toldman. Several important accessions have also 
been received as the result of the field work of the Geological Sui'vey. 
Interest in the needs of the Museum has been aroused among othcers 
of the Army and Navy and observers of the Weather Bureau stationed 
in the West Indies and the South Pacific Ocean, and it is expected that 
valuable contributions will soon ])e received through these chamiels. 
A collection of reptiles, which \\o made in Texas, has been presented bv 
Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. A. 



70 REPORT OF NATIONAL MITSEUM, 1900. 

Of private expeditions there have been several which lienefited the 
Museum. As a result of his explorations in the Malay Archipelago 
and other eastern localities, including Trong, Lower Siani, and Singa- 
pore, Dr. William L. Abbott has contributed a large and important 
collection of zoological and ethnological material, the former compris- 
ing 257 mammals, 763 birds, and 125 batrachians, besides many insects 
and other forms of invertebrates. Among the specimens are many 
species new to science and numerous others not heretofore represented 
in the Museum. This is onl}^ one of several expeditions through 
which the Museum has been placed under great indebtedness to Doctor 
Abbott. 

While at the Samoan Islands as the British representative on the 
joint commission. Sir Charles Eliot found time to bring together an 
excellent collection of the moUusks and other marine invertebrates, 
which he has kindly turned over to the National Museum. 

Other acquisitions, the results of private explorations, have been as 
follows: A series of Japanese fishes from the Leland Stanford Junior 
Universit}'; a collection of crustaceans made on the Brazilian coast 
by Dr. John C. Branner during the Branner-Agassiz expedition; a 
collection of Hawaiian crustaceans from Mr. H. W. Henshaw; about 
300 Colombian birds from Mr. Outram Bangs; over 80() plants of the 
State of Washington from Mr. Kirk Whited; a valuable series of 
volcanic rocks and other geological material from the Hawaiian Islands, 
from Prof. C. H. Hitchcock. 

Collecting outfits. — Outfits have been furnished to the following 
persons who have ottered to collect material for the Museum: Prof. 
Dean C. Worcester, United States commissioner to the Philippine 
Islands; Capt. H. C. Benson, Manila; Dr. Azel Ames and Mr. L. M. 
McCormick, San Juan, P. R. ; Mr. B. S. Bowdish, Aguadilla, P. R.; 
Maj. J. H. Hysell, Santiago, Cuba; Capt. O. S. Durfee, Ciego de 
Ovila, Cuba; Mr. F. G. Gosling, Hamilton, Bernmda; Mr. Charles 
B. Taylor, Kingston, Jamaica; Mr. Fred Driver, Montserrat, West 
Indies; Mr. F. C. Holman, United States of Colombia; Rev. Samuel 
P. Craver, Montevideo, Uruguay; Mr. Paul Narbel, Cour, Lausanne, 
Switzerland; Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. A., Newport, R. I.; Mr. Dane 
Coolidge, Leland Stanford Junior University, California; Dr. J. 
Hornung and Mr. M. L. Robb, San Francisco, Cal.; Mr. Robert T. 
Young, Waring, Tex. ; Mr. R. T. Young, Boern, Tex. ; Mr. Howard 
S. Reed, New Orleans, La. ; Dr. Adolph Tucheband and Mr. W. A. 
Schantz, New York City; Mr. Robert Stein, Washington, D. C, 
leader of an expedition to the North Polar regions; Miss Thora 
Stejneger, Washington, D. C; Lieut. John W. Daniel, jr., Lynch- 
burg, Va. ; Mr. George C. Lewis, Fort Myer, Va. 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SKCRKTAKY. 7l 

INFORMATION FURNISHED. 

The Musouni lono-ago cumo to Ix' I'ooardcd l»y th(» pul)li(' at large as 
a place where inforinatiou mig-ht he sought on many scientitio topics. 
Specimens are sent for identitication and analysis, and inquiries are 
received bearing upon ever}' subject within its scope, as well as upon 
many with which it has no relation. Every communication is an- 
swered, and so far as possible the writer's wishes are complied with, 
though requests for chemical analyses can not )>e met, as the Museum 
is not equipped for work of that kind. 

During the past 3'ear the demands in this direction were nuich 
greater than ever before. Over seven hundred lots of objects were 
received for examination, while of letters asking information there was 
an average of not less than one hundred weekly. As will be ivalized, 
the time of both the scientific and the clerical staff was heavily drawn 
upon in })reparing the necessary replies. Very few of the specimens 
which come in this wa}' are of any value to the Museum, while those 
that might be prolitably added to the collections have generally to be 
returned to the owners, so that the Museum derives little benefit from 
these sendings. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

Volume 1 of the Annual Report for 1S9T was received from the 
Government Printing Office in December. The several papers com- 
posing it have also been issued in separate pamphlet foi-m and dis- 
tributed in the usual manner. The scM-ond volume of this report, still 
in course of printing, will contain a l)iographical account of Dr. George 
Brown Goode, the late assistant secretary of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion in charge of the National Museum, and reprints of several of his 
most important papers on museums and on the history of scientific 
progress in the United States. It is expected that the Annual Report 
for 1898 will be ready for distribution early in the next fiscal ye^ar. 
The appendix to this report will consist of only one paper — a mono- 
graphic treatise on the ' ' Crocodilians, Lizards, and Snakes of North 
AniiMica,"" by the late Prof. Edward Drinkei- Cope. 

Volume 21 of the Proceedings was issued in August, 1899, and 24 
papers of volume 22 were printed and distributed during the year. 

Part lof Bulletin No. 47, entitled "The Fishes of North and Middle 
America,'" by Dr. David Starr Jordan and Dr. Barton Warren Ever- 
mann, was printed just before the close of the year. This volume, con- 
sisting of some additions to the text, 892 plates with their explanations, 
and a genci-al ta))le of contents, completes one of the most impoilant 
w oiks thus far published by the Museum. Parts M, N, and O have also 
been added to Bulletin No. ;-)9. They are entitled, respectively, '*The 
methods employed at the Naples Zoological Station for the presei'\ a- 
tion of marini* animals," hv Dr. Salvatore Lo Bianco; .''Directions for 



72 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



preparing study specimens of small mammals," by GerritS. Miller, jr.; 
and " Directions for collecting and rearing dragon flies, stone flies, and 
may flies," by Dr. James G. Needham. 

A list of the publications of the Museum and of the members of its 
staff, issued during the year, is presented in Appendix IV. The 
number of authors represented is 66 and the total number of papers 
cited 276. The following table classifies these papers in accordance 
with the subjects treated: 



Subject. 



[Papers by 
Museum 
officers. 



Papers by 

other 

investi- i 

gators. 



Total. 



Administration 

Archaeology 

Bird.s 

Botany 

Ethnology 

Exploration 

FLshes 

Fossils 

General natural history . . 

Geology 

Helminthology 

Insects 

Mammals 

Marine Invertebrates 

Minerals 

Mollusks 

Religions 

Reptiles and batrachians. 

Technology 

Miscellaneous 



Total 



202 



1 

3 

46 

13 

6 

1 

3 

18 

2 

9 

1 

99 

22 

16 

5 

22 

1 

4 

1 

3 



Twenty-three papers by members of the staff, based upon Museum 
material, have, with the approval of the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, been printed during the year in publications other than 
those of the Museum. Their titles will be found in the bibliography. 
The names of the authors are as follows: Dr. George P. Merrill, Mr. 
Gerrit S. Miller, jr., Dr. J. N. Rose, Mr. William R. Maxon, Mr. 
Charles Louis Pollard, Dr. C. W. Richmond, Mr. Charles Schuchert, 
and Mr. Charles T. Simpson. 



LIBRARY. 

The Museum library now contains over 15,000 bound volumes and 
27,000 unbound papers. The additions during the year consisted of 
337 books, 728 pamphlets, and 4,298 parts of periodicals. There were 
catalogued 1,005 books, 2,699 pamphlets, and •±,921 parts of periodi- 
cals. The number of books, pamphlets, and periodicals ))orrowed 



REPOKT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 73 

from the central library amounted to 18,500, ineliiding 7,000 with- 
drawn for assignment to the sectional libraries, of which there are 
now :^7, as follows: 

Administration. Marine invertebrates. 

Anthropology. Materia inedica. 

Biology. Mesozoic! fossils. 

Birds. ■ Mineralogy. 

Botany. Mollusks. 

Children's room. Oriental archaeology. 

Comparative anatomy. Paleobotany. 

Editor. Parasites. 

Ethnology. Photography. 

Fishes. Prehistoric anthropology. 

Geology. Reptiles. 

History. Stratigraphic paleontology. 

Insect.s. Technology. 

Mammals. 

TAXIDERMY AND OSTEOLOGY. 

Owing to the absence in Cuba, during several months, of Mr. William 
Palmer, chief taxidermist, and the detail of his assistant during the 
last half of the year to the Division of Mammals, the amount of taxi- 
dermic work accomplished has been less than usual. Sixty-tive speci- 
mens in the flesh, including 81 mammals, 23 birds, and 11 reptiles, 
and also 11(> skins of mammals, were received. Many of the fresh 
specimens came from the National Zoological Park. Twenty-five 
skins were mounted for the exhibition cases and 93 were prepared for 
the study series. Many specimens were renovated or remounted for 
dispUi}' purposes. 

The taxidermists of the Division of Birds have remade a number of 
old skins, besides preparing and mounting several specimens received 
in the flesh. They have also reduced some of the mounted specimens 
to skins and have overhauled a large portion of the extensive exhibi- 
tion series. 

The amount of osteological work has also been smaller than usual, 
because of the necessity of transferring one of the assistants tempo- 
rarily to the Department of Geology. One thousand skulls of mammals 
and the skeletons of several mammals and l)irds received in the flesh 
have, however, been cleaned. The large skeleton of the luunpback 
whale which has ])een displayed in the Osteological Hall was removed, 
and in its place has been substituted the specimen formerly suspended 
in the south hall, showing both the skeleton and the exterior. 

PHOTOGRAPHY. 

Mr. T. W. Smillie, the photogi"aph(M\ reports having made for the 
Museum during the year 435 negativi\s, r>-l:4 platinuiu prints, 175 silver 
prints, 1,8-1:1 blue prints, and (57 traMs[)arencies. In a nuiseum of the 



74 REPORT OF NATIONAL MFSKUM, 1900. 

srope aiul cliiiraetoT of this one a oreat divorsity of photooTaphif work 
is callod for, and it is (juito pssential that tho hiohost standard of tho 
art ho attained. In this respoct tlio National Musouni has boon very 
fortunate from tho hotvinning-, and tho results acconiplishod have been 
all that could be desired, as testified by the many illustrations scattered 
through its publications which have been produced through this means. 
Mr. Smillio's time is also parti}" shared with other branches of the 
Institution: and on the Smithsonian eclipse expedition to Wadesboro, 
N. C in May, lilOO. he was in immediate charge of tho photographic 
branch. 

EXPOSITIONS. 

l*(in-Americ(m ExpoKltlon^ Bnfalo. — By act of Congress approved 
March 8, 1899, the sum of $800,000 was appropriated for a Govern- 
ment exhibit at tho Pan-American Exposition to 1)0 hold at Buffalo, 
N. Y., in 1901, })esides an additional sum of $200,000 for the erection 
of a building. Dr. Frederick W. True, executive curator, has been 
designated as tho representative of the Smithsonian Institution and its 
bureaus on the Government board of management, and Mr. W. V. 
Cox as chief special agent. By the close of the past year the plans 
for tho display on the part of the Museum had been essentially com- 
pleted, and the work of bringing together and preparing the neces- 
sary collections was being rapidly pushed. 

A series of models and original pieces of electrical apparatus belong- 
ing to the Henry, Morse, and Farmer collections was sent to the Paris 
Exposition of 1900, and several series of exhibits from the Division of 
Graphic Arts to the Printing Exposition held in New York City 
during the month of May, 1900. 

NECROLOOY. 

Frank Hamilton Cushing, one of the collaborators in the Division of 
Ethnology in the National Museum, died April 10, 1900, He was born 
in tho village of Northeast, Erie County, Pa., July 22, 185T. He took 
a deep interest in the study of ethnology and archa?ology, and l)egan 
making collections when but a boy. At the age of 18 he went to Cor- 
nell University for the purpose of pursuing a special course in anthro- 
pology. In 1876 ho was given charge of a portion of tho oxhi])it of 
the Smithsonian Institution at the Centennial Exposition in Philadel- 
phia, and in 1879 ho entered the service of the Smithsonian Bureau of 
Ethnology. Mr. Cushing lived for many years among tho Indians of 
the Southwest, during which time he acquired a thorough knowledge 
of their customs, arts, language, religion, and tribal history. In 1887 
he organized and conducted important archaeological explorations in 
tho Salado and Gila valleys of Arizona under the auspices of the Ilem- 
enway Southwestern Archa?ological Expedition. In 189(1 ho Avas placed 



REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 75 

in charg-e of an expedition sent out l»y the Bureau of Ethnolooy. in 
conjunction with the University of Pennsylvania, to explore the 
antiquities of the west coast of Florida. This work resulted in most 
important discoveries, partially reported upon in the Proceedintrs of 
the American Philosophical Societv, Philadelphia, for iSltH. Among 
the works bearing on his explorations in Arizt)na that entitled "Out- 
lines of Zuni Creation Myths," published in the Thirteenth Annual 
Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, is one of the most important. In 
the second annual report an intcn'esting papor on '"Zufii Fetiches'"' 
appeared. Many of the articles on various phases of his explorations 
were pul)lished in periodicals from time to time, l)ut it is a mattcM- of 
regret that his early death precludes the possihilit}- of publishing a 
large amount of material which he had brought together. 

Mr. A. Zeno Shindler, who died August 18, 1S9!». was connected 
with the National Museum for many years as an artist. He was 
engaged largely upon ethnological work and produced a number of 
portrait studies of the peoples of the world, l)ut his most notable 
service was in painting casts of fishes, reptiles, and other natural history 
specimens. 



APPENDIX I. 



The Museum Staff. 

[June 30, 1900.] 

S. P. Langley, Secretary (jf tlie .Smithsonian Institution, Keeper Ex-()fiicio. 
Richard Rathbun. Assistant Secretary. 
Frederick W. True, Executive Curator. 

SCIENTIFIC STAFF. 

I)ki'.vkt-MK.\t of Anthropology: 

W. H. Holmes, Head Curator. 
(o) Division of Ethnologii: O. T. Mason, Curator; Walter Hough, Assistant Cura- 
tor; J. W. Fewkes, CollaV)orator. 
[lA Division of Historic Archnolog;/: Paul Haupt, Honorary Curator; Cyrus 

Adler, Honorary Assistant Curator; I. M. Casanowicz, Aid. 
(c) Dimsion of Prehistoric Archieoloyy: Thomas Wilson, Curator. 
{(l) Division of Technology {Mechanical phases): J. E. Watkins, Curator; George 
C. ^laynard, Aid. 
Section of Electricity: G. C. Maynard, Custodian. 

(e) Division <f fh-aphic Arts: S. R. Koehler, Honorary Curator. 

Section of Photography : T. W. Smillie, Custodian. 
(/) Divkion of Medicine: J. M. Flint, U. S. N. (Retired), Honorary Curator. 
{g) Diirision of Religions: 

Section of Historic Religious Ceremonials; Cyrus Adler, Custodian. 
(/() Division of History and Biography: 

Section of American History, A. H. Clark, ( 'ustodian; Paul Beckwith, Aid. 
Dki'aktment of Biology: 

Frederick W. True, Head Curator. 
(a) Division ff Mammals: Frederick W. True, Acting Curator; (4. S. Miller, jr.. 

Assistant Curator; Marcus W. Lyon, jr., Aid. 
{b) Division of Birds: Robert Ridgway, Curator; Charles W. Richmond, Assist- 
ant Curator; J. H. Riley, Aid. 
Section of Birds' Eggs: William T^. Rali)h, Custodian. 
(c) Division of Reptileif and Batrachiavs: I.,eonhard Stejneger, Curator. 
{d) Division of FisJirs: Tarleton H. Bean, Honorary Curator; Barton A. Bean, 
Assistant Curator. 

(f) Division of Molhtsks: William H. Dall, Honorary Curator; C. T. Simpson, Aid; 

Paul Bartscrh, Aid. 
(/) Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, Honorary Curator; W. H. Ashmead, 
Assistant t-urator; R. P. Currie, Aid. 
Section of Hymenojitera: W. H. Ashmead, in charge. 
Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, Custodian. 
Section of Diptera: D. AV. Coquillett, Custodian. 
Section of Coleoptera: E. A. Schwarz, Custodian. 
Section of Lepidoptera: Harrison G. Dyar, Custodian. 
Section of Arachnida: Nathan Banks, Custodian. 

77 



78 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Department ok Biology — Continued. 

{(/) Division of Marine InrertehraU's: Rirliard Rathbun, Honorary Curator; J. E. 
Benedict, First AssLstant Curator; Miss M. J. Rathbun, Second Assist- 
ant Curator. 
Section of Helminthological Collections: C. W. Stiles, Custodian, 
(/i) Diimion of < 'oniparative Anatomy: Frederic A. Lucas, Curator. 
(?■) Division of Plants {National Herbarium): Frederick V. Coville, Honorary 
Curator; J. N. Roge, Assistant Curator; C. L. Pollard, Assistant Cura- 
tor; W. R. Maxon, Aid. 
Section of Forestry: B. E. Fernow, Honorary Curator, 
Section of Cryptogamic Collections: O. F. Cook, Honorary Assistant 

Curator. 
Section of Algpe: W. T. Swingle, Custodian. 
1 * Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, Custodian. 

Associates in Zoology (Honorary): Theodore N. Gill, C. Hart Merriam, 
R. E. C. Stearns. 
Department of Geology: 

George P. Merrill, Head Curator. 
{a) Division of Phf/sical and Chemical Geohxjii (tSi/stematic and Applied): George 

P. Merrill, Curator; W. H. Newhall, Aid. 
{b) Division of Mineralogy: F.W.Clarke, Honorary Curator; Wirt Tassin, Assist- 
ant Curator; L. T. Chamberlain, Honorary Custodian of Gems and 
Precious Stones, 
(c) Division of Stratlgraphic P(deontoloff;/: Charles D. Walcott, Honorary Curator; 
Charles Schuchert, Assistant Curator. 
Section of Vertebrate Fossils: F. A. Lucas, Acting Assistant Curator. 
Section of Invertebrate Fossils: Paleozoic, Charles Schuchert, Custodian; 
Carboniferous, George H. Girty, Custodian; Mesozoic, T. W. Stanton, 
Custodian; Cenozoic, W. H.Dall, Associate Curator. 
Section of Paleobotany: Lester F. Ward, A.ssociate Curator; A. C. Peale, 
Aid; F. H. Knowlton, Custodian of Mesozoic Plants; David White, 
Custodian of Paleozoic Plants. 
Associate in Paleontology (Honorary): Charles A. White. 

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF. 
Chief Clerk, W. V. Cox. 

Chief of Buildings and Superintendence, J. E. Watkins. 
Chief of Correspondence and Documents, R. I. Geare. 
Ph(jtographer, T. W. Smillie. 
Registrar, S. C. Brown. 
Disbursing Clerk, W. W. Karr. 
I'roperty C-lerk, \V. A. Knowles (Acting). 
Librarian, Cyrus Adler. 
Assistant Jjibrarian, N. I*. Scudder. 
Editor, Marcus Benjamin. 



APPENDIX II. 



List of Accessions. 



Aiuiirir, ]\IasU'r (iKoKciE, Soldirr, Malio: 
Two spei'iineiiti of Cet-ropia moths. 

Ahhott, MisH Nellie, Viiieland, N. J.: 
Plant. :?525H. 

Abbott, Dr. W. L., Singapore, Strait!^ 
Settlements: A large and valuable col- 
lection of natural-hisitory specimen!^, 
including niannnal skins, birds' skins 
and eggs, rejitiles and l)atrachians, uiol- 
lusks, insects, skeletons of l)irds, niani- 
luais, and a reptile, also ethnological 
objects, from Trong, Lower Siam 
(35822); 80 birds' skins, mammal 
skins, insect><, and ethnological objects 
from Selitar, Singapore Island (35505); 
mammals, birds' skins, reptiles, shells, 
in.«ects, fishes, marine invertebrates, 
mammal skeletons, ethnological ob- 
jects, and a canoe obtained from islands 
in the China Sea (3H053). 

Abel, J. C, Lancaster, Pa.: Stone iniiile- 
nients from the Conestoga Hills, near 
Lancaster (35323); arrow-points, scrap- 
ers, and flint chips (35552) ; stone im- 
plements (35735); rude chipped imjile- 
ments and arrow-points of white (juartz 
(35S40); rude pieces nf white quart/, 
etc. (.35!>55); arrow-points and spear- 
heads and two unfinished bainier stones 
(3()219); 81 arclm-ologiral ol)jects from 
file Conestoga Hills and a copper im- 
plement from an island in the Susque- 
hanna River, near Blue Rock (36369). 

.\ D.V.MS, C. F., Kan.sas City, Mo.: Insects 
(35367, 35750, .36009). 

Ai)MiK.\L Dewey Reception Com.mittek. 
Received through W. H. Moses, chair- 
man: Bronze badge made from metal 
captured at ^lanilaaml struck in honor 
of tiic AdmiiaJ's return to Wasiiiiigtoii, 
Octolx-r •_', IS'.i'.t, and a complete set of 
buttons worn by members of the com- 
mittee. ^^878. 



.VCKKILTIKE, i)EI».\KTMENT OF. HoU. 

.James Wilson, Secretary: Collection 
of insects from Texas (35708) ; 6 spec- 
imens of rare dragonflies from Cory, 
Maine, collected by Mr. F. L. Harvey 
(35826) ; large collection oi Odonata 
from ]\Iaine ol)tained by ^Ir. Harvey 
(35828); large collection of insects 
obtained l)y August Busck in Porto 
Rico (36240); 2 cral)S from Texas 
~ collected Ijy Vernon Bailey (36504) ; 
land and fresh-water shells obtaine<l 
l)y E. \V. Nelson in Mexico (1^531); 
2 specimens of crabs {Psendothei- 
plmsa ) collected in INIexico 1 ly Messrs. 
Nelson and Goldman (36547 ) ; about 
5,000 insects collected in Porto Rico 
by August Busck (36620). 
Materiiil deposited hi llw Xafiojuil llcr- 
Ixiriiiiii: Forty-six plants (35315); 
specimen of Surcobntiix haUnji C'oville, 
collected l)y H. W. Turner (35440); 
2,300 plants collected by T. H. Kear- 
ney in Virginia and North Carolina 
(35441 ) ; 100 plants collected by F. V. 
Coville and T. H. Kearney (35442); 
107 ])lants obtained by Professor Fla- 
hault (35758); 2 ])lants collected by 
Mrs. E. P. Mc(iowan (35776); 2,500 
I>lants of the Harriman Alaska 
t'xpedition, collected chiefiy by 
Messrs. Coville and Kearney |36,S66); 
132 plants obtained by .\ven Nelson 
(35934); received through Prof. F. 
Lam.son-Scribner, 25 forage plants 
(36104) ; 19 plants from Kansas col- 
lected by F. V. Coville (36257); 153 
plants from North Carolina and Vir- 
ginia collected by F. V. Coville 
I3()2.58); 60 plants from Maryland 
collected by Mr. Coville (.36259); 123 
plants from the District of C<)lnnd)ia 
colle«'te<l by Mr. Coville (36260); 3 
l)laats from Connecticut collected by 
79 



80 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 190(). 



AgRICULTUKE, DKrARTMENT OF — Coilt'd. 

Materidl depmited in the National Her- 
barium — Continued. 
C. G. Bissell (862H3); 88 plants col- 
lected by David Griffiths, T. A. Wil- 
liams, and P. A. Rydberg (36328); 34 
plants collected by Kirk Whited in 
Washington (36397); 3 specimens of 
grasses fro. a Florida (36427); received 
through L. H. Dewey, specimen of 
Greivia. from South Australia (36444) ; 
received through Lieut. B. H. 
Dutcher, Fort Grant, Ariz., 19 plants 
from Arizona (36445); 817 plants 
from Washington collected by Kirk 
Whited (36472); specimen of Arc- 
ioseaphylos canescens from California 
(36543); 1,126 plants collected in 
Oregon by E. P. Sheldon (36665). 
(See under Anderson, A. P.; Austin, 
S. W.; Bailey, Vernon; Bissell, C. G. ; 
Boardman, C. A.; Brown, Herbert; 
Busck, August; California Academy 
of Sciences; Campbell, A. J.; Coville, 
F. v.; Cusick, W. C; Dewey, L. H.; 
Dutcher, B. H.; Eby, Mrs. A. F.; 
Engman, E. J. ; Fay, John; Flahault, 
Prof.; Fitzgerald, Margaret P.; Flett, 
J. B.; Fyles, T. W.; Godbug, T. K.; 
Goldman, E. A. ; Graham, G. A. ; 
Griffiths, David; Harvey, F. L.; 
Hitchcock, A. S. ; Kearney, T. H.; 
Lamson-Scribner, F. ; McGowan, 
Mrs. E. P. ; Miller, F. J. X. ; Nelson, 
Aven; Nelson, J]. W. ; Noble, S. W.; 
Oakman, Miss; Olds, H. W.; Piper, 
C. v.; Plitt, C. C; Rydberg, P. A.; 
Sheldon, E. P. ; Spencer, Mr. ; Steele, 
W. C; Tracy, S. M.; Turner, H. W.; 
AVaghorne, A. ; W^ay, P. N. ; Werckle, 
C; Wheeler, Maj. Gen. Joseph; 
Whited, Kirk; Williams, T. A.; 
Wilson, J. M. ) 
Alaska Commercial Company, San Fran- 
cisco, Cal.: Specimen of Ursm nudden- 
dorffi, from Kadiak Island, Alaska. 
Purchase. 35884. 
Aldrich, Prof. J. M., Moscow, Idaho: 
Sixty-seven specimens of Coleoptera, 
including the rare Cerambycid genus 
Piodes, new to the Museum collection. 
35424. 
Alexander, W. H., Basseterre, St. Kitts, 
West Indies: Collection of natural his- 
tory specimens. 35370. 



Allen, A.J. (See under Cambridge Bo- 
tanical Supply Company. ) 

Allen, Glover M., Intervale, N. H.: 
Three snakes ( Thamnophis sirtalis jiaUi- 
dula), topotypes, from Bartlett, N. H. 
35587. 

Allen, Mrs. L. P., Dunedin, Fla. : Four 
starfishes. 35654. 

American Electrical Works, Provi- 
dence, R. I. : Thirty-two electrical con- 
ductors. 35807. 

Anderson, A. P., Clemson College, S. C. 
Received through Department of Agri- 
culture: Ninety-four plants. Exchange. 
35401. 

Anderson, R. T., West Aylmer, Ontario, 
Canada: Specimen of CaUimorpha cly- 
mene Brown. 36129. 

Andrus, F. H., Elkton, Oreg. : Thirteen 
specimens of Vertigo andrusiana Pils- 
bry ( 35331 ) ; land and marine shells 
(36391). 

Angel, Miss Lillie, Orange, N. J.: Three 
specimens of violets. Exchange. 
36514. 

Anthony, A. W., Portland, Oreg.: Shrew 
{Sorex {Afophyrax) bendirei), from Tay- 
lorsville, Cal. 36669. 

Applegate, E. L, Klamath Falls, Oreg.: 
Specimen of Scirpus, from Oregon. 
36108. 

Arnheim, J. S., San Francisco, Cal.: 
Shell and specimen of Eunaticina, from 
California. 35701. 

Arnold, Hon. Delos, San Pedro, Cal. : 
Type specimen of Caryopkyllia arnoldi 
Vaughan. 36621. 

Arnold, Edward, Battlecreek, Mich.: 
Two skins of Falc» richardmnii. 36200. 

Asbestos and Asbestic Company, Dan- 
ville, Quebec, Canada: Specimens of 
asbestos and asbestic material. 35557. 

Ash, Charles H, Newport, R. I. Re- 
ceived through Dr. E. A. Mearns: 
Lobster weighing 27 pounds. 36684. 

Ash, C. J., National Home, Va. : Primi- 
tive rat trap. 36596. 

Ashe, W. W., Raleigh, N. C: Three 
specimens of Viola (gift). (36261); 
50 specimens of violets (exchange) 
(36568); 50 specimens of violets (ex- 
change) (36634). 



LIST OB^ ACCESSIONS. 



81 



Atkinsox, G. E., Portage La Prairie, 
Manitoba, Canada: Four skulls of 
moose {Alces americanus); skull of elk 
( Cervus canadensis ) . 36629. 

Atkinson, Richiel, Atkinson, Ala. : 
Cricket {(rryllotalpa borealis Burm). 
.S6355. 

AiTWATEK, H. P., San Antonio, Tex.: 
Seventeen birds' eggs and 2 nests from 
Texas. 36064. 

AiKiNGER, Rev. O. C, Troy, N. Y. : 
Fourteen rude stone implements. 
Exchange. 36338. 

ArsTiN, 8. W., Independence, Cal. Re- 
ceived through Department of Agricul- 
ture: Plant collected by W. L. Hun- 
ter (35794); received through Depart- 
ment of Agriculture: 6 plants from 
California (36512). 

B.vciiLixE, John, Washington, D. C. : 
Marine shells and echinoderms from 
Cuba. 35251. 

Bailey, Gen. G. W., Atchison, Kans. 
Received through Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, Bureau of Fythnology : Four pieces 
of pottery from mounds near Charles- 
ton, Mo. : medicine bag obtained from 
the Sioux Indians, Rosebud, S. Dak. ; 
necklace from the Apaches of Arizona; 
wolf-skin headdress from the Sioux 
Indians, and a skin scraper from an 
Indian tribe located near Perry, Iowa. 
35415. 

Bailey, A'ekxox, Washington, D. C. 
Received through Department of Agri- 
culture: Specimen of Tillandsia from 
Texas. 36536. 

Baker, Carl, Washington, D. C. : Six- 
teen specimens of Umbellifera; from 
Colorado. 36082. 

Baldwin, D. R., Ravenden Springs, Ark. : 
Specimen of Talxnnts mexicdnus Lin- 
nanis. 35248. 

Baxg.s, OiTRA.M, Boston, Mass.: Ninety- 
two birds' skins from Colombia, South 
America (35458); 102 birds' skins from 
the Santa Marta region of Colomljia 
not previously represented in the 
Museum collection (35655, 35859); 2 
skins and skulls of mammals (36171 ); 
100 birds' skins from Lonia <lel Leon, 
Panama (36579). 



Banks, Natiiax, Department of Agricul- 
ture: One hundred and seventy-eight 
specimens of Odonata from North 
America. 35818. 

Barber, A. W., Washington, D. C. : Two 
pieces of broken pottery, 4 pieces of 
human bones, and part of a flint arrow- 
point (36270); seed of Coonti plant 
from a cocoanut grove at Biscatai Bay, 
Florida (36299). (See under Mrs. H. 
D. Brainanl, and Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, Bureau of Ethnology. ) 

Barber, Mrs. A. W., Washiiagton, D. C. : 
Two skins of snakes. 36011. 

Barber, C. M. ( See under Wooten, E. O. ) 

Barber, Herbert, U. S. National 
Museum: Thirty specimens of Odonata 
from Washington, D. C, and vicinity. 
35821. 

Barbour, W. C, Sayre, Pa.: One hun- 
dred and twenty specimens of violets. 
Exchange. 36703. 

Bark, J AMES E., Phoenix, Ariz.: Twenty- 
six small arrow-points found on the 
Superstition Mountains (36218); pieces 
of charred yarn found in a ruin on the 
Verde River (36388). 

Barxes, Georc^e D., Chattanooga, Tenn. : 
Three hundred and thirty-five speci- 
mens of Lower Carboniferous fossils 
from Oak Mountain, James County, 
Tenn. Purchase. 35382. 

B.VRXES, Dr. W., Decatur, 111.: Twenty- 
two specimens of rare Lepidoptera, in- 
cluding 4 types of species described l>y 
the donor. 35923. 

Barxhart Brothers A Spixdlek, Chi- 
cago, 111. Received through F. J. V. 
Skiff, director of Field Columbian Mu- 
seum, and G. a. Dorsey, curator of 
anthropology: The old Ramage print- 
ing press. 35949. 

Barrett, O. W., ]Museo de Comision, 
Tat'ubaya, D. F., Mexico: Forty speci- 
mens of Coleoptera. 35239. 

BARRo'rr, A. F. (See under A. B. John- 
son. ) 

Bartholomew, Elam, Rockport, Kans. : 
Sj)ecinien of Lupinus. 35953. 

Bartleit, Mrs. C. H., Kittery, Me.: 
Thirteen specimens of Telamona ampe- 
lopsides Harris. 35360. 



NAT MUS 190U- 



-6 



82 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



r>.\HTS( II, Paul, U. S. National Muneuiu: 
Three specinieiiH of Odonata from 
Washington, D. C HM^2. 

Bass, W. L., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Nest of 
liunnninglnrd {MellisiKjuininhna), from 
Jamaiea. 36650. 

Bateson, N. Maine, Norfolk, Va. : I'ieee 
of Fiji tapa cloth. :i'S<»69. 

Bati[EK, F. .'\. (See under London, 
England, British .Museum of Natural 
History.) 

B.viTY, J. H., Jersey City, N. J.: Seven- 
teen skins of Trogons from South Amer- 
ica (purchase) (35826); 2 skins of Tro- 
gons (gift) (35327). 

Beach, Jay, Oakland, t'al.: Two photo- 
graphs of a mammotli tusk. 36233. 

Bean, B. A., U. S. National Museum: 
Fishes collected at Woods Hole, Mass. 
35607. 

Beaulieu, G. H. (See under Smithson- 
ian Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. ) 

Becker, Dr. F. L. S., Grahamstown, 
South Africa: Specimen of Vohda afri- 
cana Reeve, with a photograi)h show- 
ing the specimen in three positions. 
36056. 

Beckwith, Paul, U. S. National Museum: 
United States silver 10-cent piece dated 
1831(35333); currency (Scents) issued 
by the mayor and common council of 
Jersey aity,Novenil)er 15, 1862 (35693); 
silver reals (9) of Ferdinand VII, King 
of Spain, dated 1802; 2 machetes ob- 
tained during the C'u])an campaign (pur- 
chase) (35835); 3 silver coins (35856); 
nioney belt from Ponce, Porto Rico 
( 35948 ) ; 2 coins of the Ottoman Empire 
(35967). 

Beecher, Dr. C. E. (See under Peabody 
Miiseum; Yale University Museum. ) 

Bell, George, Denver, Colo.: Piece of 
gold-l)earing lireccia from Sheba Mine, 
Johannesljurg, Africa. 35502. 

Bellotti, Dr. C. (See un(ler Milan, 
Italy, Museum of Natural History. ) 

Benedict, J. E., U. S. National Museum: 
Collection of dragonfiies (35355) ; drag- 
onflies and otlier insects (35405); ma- 
rine invertebrates and mollusks (35463) ; 
1900 microscopic slidi-s illustrating 
annelids (purchase) (35738). 

Benedict, J. PI, Jr., Woodside, Md. : 
Collection of dragonfiies from Province- 
town, Mass. 35453. 



Ben.iamin, Mrs. Marcus, Washington, D. 
C. : Badge and rib))on conmiemorating 
the forty -eighth meeting at (V)luml)us, 
Ohio, of the American Association for 
the Advancement of Science (gift) 
(35562); ribbon badge of the American 
Chemical Society, December, lH97(gift) 
(35582); 2 baskets made by Klamath 
Indians (exchange) (35912). 

Benne'it, Rev. William, S. J., St. .lohn's 
College, Belize, British Honduras: C-ol- 
lection of reptiles and insects from I lon- 
duras. 35768. 

Bennetts, W. J., Milwaukee, Wis. : Three 
plants. 35621. 

Berea, Durban, Natal, Africa, Natal 
Botanic Gardens. Received through 
J. Medley Wood : One hundred and six- 
teen plants ( 36256) ; 100 plants (35680) . 
Exchange. 

Bessey, Prof. C. E., Lincoln, Nebr. : 
Plant from Black Hills, South Dakota. 
36425. 

Bethel, E., Denver, Colo.: Forty sjjeci- 
mens of violets. (35400, 35524.) 

BiAscoECHEA, Henry, Aguadilla, P. R. : 
Collection of shells from Porto Ric-.o. 
36500. 

Biederman, C. R., (toM Hill, Oreg. : 
Moths, butterflies, and other insects. 
(35619, 35501. ) 

BiEN, W. H., Los Angeles, Cal.: Two 
species of land shells from C^alifornia. 
35879. 

BiGELOW, E. F., Stamford, C(jnn.: Coc- 
cinellid larv&e. 36577. 

BiLLUPS, A. C, Concord, N. C. : Unios. 
.35632. 

Bishop Me.morial Museum. (See under 
Honolulu, H. I.) 

Bissell, C. G. (Bee under Agriculture, 
Department of. ) 

Blackburn. Joseph, Hickman, Temi.: 
Dobson fly, C'ori/dahis connit lu^ Linmims. 
35283. 

Blackford, Dr. C. M., Jr., East Orland, 
Me. : Pupa of Acronyda (t)nericana. 
35980. 

Blaisdell, Dr. F. E., ^lokelumne Hill, 
Cal. : Two skins and skeletons of go- 
phers {Tltoinoimjii). 36179. 

Blake, O. P. (See under Evens i<: How- 
ard Fire Brick Comj)any. ) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



88 



Blanchaki). Wam'hh, Ronlder, Colo.: 
Foiirtet'ii l)ir(ly' eggs from Colorado. 
35358. 

Blasdale, W. C. (See under J. B. Davy. ) 

Blood, C. H., Los Angeles, Cal. : Two 
specimens of Amphissa, from White 
Point, Los Angeles County. 36217. 

Boakdman, 0. A., Rimouski, Quebec. 
Received through tlie Department of 
Agriculture: Specimen of Castulia tefra- 
ffona. Exchange. 35398. 

BoEPPLE, J. F., IMuscatine, Iowa. Re- 
ceived through U. S. Fish Conniiission: 
Valves of colored and distorted Union- 
ida^. 36679. 

BoETTCHER, F. J>., AVashiugtoii, D. C. : 
Plant. 35573. 

BcKU-E, Prof. E. E., Stillwater, Okla. : 
Five galls ami 2 specimens of Anld.r 
(/fcrtnimr Unnanis. 35683. 

BoHM, J., Berlin, Germany: Tinrty-eight 
species of fossil corals from Italy and 
Egyi>t. Exchange. 35546. 

Booth, John, Coalville, Utah: Agates. 
35686. 

BoswoRTH, J. S., Sedalia, Mo.: Glass 
snake, Opheimturus centralis, from Mis- 
souri. 35462. 

Botanical Garden, AVashington, D. C. : 
Two specimens of Poljipodium, from the 
greenhouse. .36406. 

Bousch, M., Buffalo City, N. C.:-Ash 
beetle, Ih/)i(istes titi/tis Linnanis. 3532L 

BouTWELL, J. M., Montpelier, Vt. : Dark 
barre granite froni Dark Barre (iranite 
Quarries, Montpelier. 3538S. 

BowDisH, B. S., San Juan, P. R. : Bird 
skin {Seiurtis motarUla) from Vieques, 
P. R. (36202); 10 birds' skins from 
Porto Rico (36488); specimen of l)en- 
droicd adi'laidiv, from Porto Rico 
(36578). 

Bowers, Stephen, Los Angeles, Cal. : 
Thirty-three specimens of Post-plio- 
cene fossils, from Borax Lake, San 
Bernardino County, Cal. (36125); dis- 
torted salt crystals (36197); 2 speci- 
mens I if cinnabar and hydrocarbon 
compound (36364). 

BovNToN, A. (i., i>iltmore, N. ('.: Stone 
imjilement fouml near Asheville. 36449. 

BoYNToN, Miss Laira E., Biltmore, N. C. : 
Forty specimens of violets. Exchange. 
36633. 



Brainard, Mrs. II. D., Wulfert, Fla. 
Received through A. W. Barber: Shell 
hatcthet and a shell ornament from 
Buck Key near Sanibel Island, Florida. 
36269. 

Branch, H. Selwvn, Antrim Valley, 
Dominica, West Indies: Six skins of 
Imperial Parrot, Amnzona imperialis. 
Purchase. 36483. 

Branner, Dr. J. C., Stanford University, 
Cal.: Crustaceans collected in Brazil 
l)y the Agassiz Expedition in 1899. 
36636. 

Brannerman, Francis, New York City, 
N. Y. : Piece of cable from the U. S. 
battleship Ma'n,<\ 35261. 

Bray, Prof. W. L., University of Texas, 
Austin, Tex.: Four hundred and forty- 
eight plants. Exchange. 35451. 

Buuios, Dr. A. A., East Andover, N. H.: 

. S|)ei'imen of sedge ( Carc.v conoldea) 
(35297 ) ; plant (35674) ; 2 plants (36581 ) ; 

Brruia.m, Dr. W. T. (See under Hono- 
lulu, H. L: Bishop Memorial 
Museum ) . 

Brill, J. A., Philadelphia, Pa.: Indian 
pipe made i >f soapstone and polished. 
36024. 

Bri.mley, H. H. and C. S., Raleigh, N. C: 
Fifteen snakes (35616); reptiles and 
l)atrachians from Mexico (36058). 
Purchase. 

Brisbin, Edward, Boise, Idaho. : Dia- 
tomaceous earth. 35634. 

Britton, Dr. N. L., New York City, N. Y. : 
Specimen of f^edmn uiexicanuin Britton 
(35645); 9 plants from Yukon Terri- 
tory (35898). Exchange. (See under 
New Y'ork Botanical Garden). 

Britts, Dr. J. H., Clinton, Mo.: Speci- 
mens of fresh-water mussels from Mis- 
souri. 35756. 

Brodie, Dr. William, T(jronto, Canada. 
Received through Dr. L. 0. Howard: 
Collection of insects. 36522. 

Brodnax, Dr. B. IL, Brodnax, La.: Two 
stone celts. 36595. 

BrookiSj a. H., U. S. (Jeological Survey: 
Fossil shells and corals from Russell 
Springs, Flint River, (ieorgia. 36505. 

J5ROOKS, Loiis, Santiago, Cuba: Ancient 
Arawack bowl from a cave near Santi- 
ago, collected by Mr. W. H. Holmes. 
36682. 



84 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Brown, C. F., Hot Springs, Ark.: Two 
quartz crystals. 36591. 

Brown, E. J., Lemon City, Fla. : Mammal 
skins, insects, and reptiles from Florida 
(35452); butterfly (36615). 

Brown, Herbert, Yuma, Ariz. Received 
through Department of Agriculture: 
Two specimens of snakes ( Contia eph- 
copa and Ri'ua hnmilis). 35383. 

Brown, Mrs. J. Crosby, New York City, 
N. Y.: Four musical instruments (pur- 
chase) (35344); military serpent (gift) 
(35721). 

Brown, Mrs. N. M., Ashtabula, Ohio: 
One hundred and sixty-three plants, 
collected by E. A. Goldman in Mexico 
(purchase) (35713); 965 plants, col- 
lected by E. W. Nelson in Mexico 
(35759); 470 plants, collected in Mex- 
ico by Mr. Nelson (35842, 35841). 

Brown, Philip F., Blue Ridge Springs, 
Va. : Specimen of maple-tree aphids. 
36610. 

Brown, W. L., San Francisco, Cal.: Five 
specimens of minerals (36309); received 
through B. L. Hasseltine, 5 specimens 
of minerals (36490). 

Brown, W. P., Washington, D. C. : Copy 
of Welsh crwth. Purchase. 36525. 

Brown, W. Q., Riddles, Oreg. Received 
through Mr. J. S. Diller: Nickel ore. 
35723. 

Bruce, R. E., Stanford University, Cal. 
Received through Dr. T. W. Stanton: 
Twenty-five specimens of Miocene fos- 
sils from Los Angeles County, Cal. 
36020. 

Bryant, F. W., AVinchester, Cal.: Speci- 
mens of Epiphragmophora indioensis, 
from California (36132); 2 species of 
shells from California (35611). 

BucKLAND Mineral Water Company, 
Washington, D. C. : Forty bottles of 
mineral waters. Purchase. 36613. 

Buffalo Botanical Garden, Seneca, N. 
Y. : One hundred specimens of violets. 
Exchange. 35375. 
Burnham, S. H., Vaughns, N. Y. : One 
hundred and twenty specimens of vio- 
lets (35581); specimen of Viola eviar- 
ginata (35963); 59 plants (36304). 
Burns, Frank. (See under J. H. Early. ) 



Burnside, J. M., Hyattsville, Md. : Sala- 
mander {Amhystoma oj^icum) from Ma- 
ryland. 35848. 

Burrelle, F. a., New York City: Re- 
duced reproduction of title page of the 
album presented to Admiral Dewey by 
the shipping merchants. 36502. 

BuscK, August. (See under Agriculture, 
Department of. ) 

Bush, B. F., Courtney, Mo.: One hun- 
dred and thirty-five plants (purchase) 
(36300); 121 specimens of mosses from 
the United States (exchange) (36186); 
200 plants from Texas and Missouri 
(purchase) (36226). 

Bush, Palmer, Craig, Colo. : Two plants. 
36352. 

Butler, Dr. C. M., Morenci, Mich.: Skin 
of Northern Phalarope, Phalaropus 
lobntus, from Michigan. 35550. 

Button, F. L., Oakland, Cal.: Four speci- 
mens of land shells from California and 
Lower California (36144); 2 specimens 
of Polygyra hindsii, from Mexico 
(36220) ; 4 specimens of land shells from 
California (36532); marine and land 
shells (36607). 

Butts, E., Kansas City, Mo.: Specimens 
of Periprisiis semicircularis and Philipsia 
major. 35929. 

Cadle, Col. Cornelius, Cincinnati, Ohio: 
Four photographs of a stone pipe. 
36147. 

Cahill, E. J., Boonton, N. J. : Four fossil 
fishes. 36374. 

Calcutta, India, Indian Museum. Re- 
ceived through Frank Finn, deputy 
superintendent: Four birds' skins. Ex- 
change. 35395. 

Calcutta, India, Royal Botanical Gar- 
den: One hundred and nine plants. 
Exchange. 35915. 

California Academy of Sciences, San 
Francisco, Cal. Received through De- 
partment of Agriculture: Forty-four 
species of Coleoptera from Baja, Cal., 
including many cotypes described by 
Dr. Horn. 36310. 

Cambridge Botanual Supply Company, 
Boston, Mass. : One hundred and forty- 
seven specimens of mosses from the 
Cascade Mountains collected by A. J. 
Allen. Purchase. 36704. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



85 



Camp, J. H., Lima, Ohio: Specimens of 
miscellaneous insects (36478); beetle 
( CaJomma scrutator Fabr.) . (36658). 

Campbell, A. J., Luray, Va. Received 
tiirouirh Department of Agriculture: 
Plant. 35572. 

Caxdlix, H., Greeley, Colo.: Four snakes 
from Texas. 35806. 

Canterbury Museum. (See under Christ- 
church, New Zealand.) 

Carpenter, Miss Anna, Jersey Shore, 
Pa.: Specimens of Thripsida\ 35845. 

Carrico, E. T., Stithton, Ky. Received 
through Smithsonian Institution, Bu- 
reau of Ethnology: Fi\e arrowpoints. 
36440. 

Carroll, Patrick, Hospital Corps, Duma- 
guete, Lsle of Xegros, Philippine Islands: 
Liirge lieetle. 35977. 

Carv, Merritt, Neligh, Nebr. : Birds' 
skins. Exchange. 36509. 

Case School of Applied Science, Cleve- 
land, Ohio. Received through F. W. 
Comstock: Five hundred and eighteen 
plants from Ohio. Exchange. 36585. 

Casey, T. L., Vicksburg, Miss.: Fossil 
land shells. 36451. 

Casper, A. B., Lowell, Mich.: Two spec- 
imens of parasitic flies ( Oifersia ameri- 
(v/z/a Leach). 35425. 

Cendoya, Julian, Santiago, Cul)a: Tor- 
pedo shell from the Spanish war ship 
Oqueiiflo, collected by ^Ir. W. H. 
Holmes. 36672. 

Chamberlain, Dr. L. T. (See under 
Smithsonian Institution. ) 

Chamberlain, Mrs. M. A., Washington, 
D. C. : Five-dollar gold i>iece dated 1809. 
36627. 

Chapin, S. B., Tallaha.ssee, Fla. : Speci- 
men of Tachinid fly, Jnrinid iitetnllica 
Desv. 35601. 

Chapman, Mrs. C. B., Macon, Ga. Re- 
ceived through U. S. Fish Commission: 
Specimens of recent and fossil shells. 
35594. 

Chapm.\n, Frank M. (See und(»r F. W. 
Urich. ) 

Che.ssek, John, Anthony, Tex.: Stone 
hatchet. 36450. 

Chester, A. H., New Brunswick, N. J.: 
Specimen of hydrozincite from Bethle- 
hem, Pa. 36281. 



Chicago Colortype Company, Chicago, 
111.: Large assortment of sheets of flow- 
ers, animals, etc., printed in colortyjx^ 
35475. 

CniCKERiNCi, Prof. J. W., Kendall Green, 
Washington, D. C. : Three plants. Ex- 
change. 35641. 

Christchurch, New Zealand, Canter- 
bury Museum. Received through F. W. 
Hutton, curator: Ethnological objects 
from the South Sea Islands, and a col- 
lection of Moa bones. 36389. Ex- 
change. 

Christensen, Hans, Conway, Wash. : 
Five sijecimens of lichens. 35351. 

Clark, J. H., Patersofl, N. J.: Nest and 
2 eggs of Blue-throated Hummingbird, 
Cceligena demenctx, from Las Minas, 
Vera Cruz, Mexico. 36393. 

Clark, Prof. AV^illiam B. (See under 
Maryland Geological Survey. ) 

Clarke, Prof. F. W. (See under Wil- 
liam Glenn. ) 

Clarkson, Frederick, New York City, 
N. Y. : V^Wlow g&\\ [Cecidoinyia lenignia 
Welch) and parasites {('irrospclusfdri- 
cinctus Riley). 35430. 

Clearfield Coal Company, Tyler, Pa. 
Received through David White: Coke 
made from supposed Dugus c(ial in bee- 
hive ovens. 35801. 

Clements, Mrs. J. C, Pewee Valley, Ky.: 
Snout-beetle {B(tl(i)ilmis cnri/dtri/pes 
Boh.). 35420. 

CLOUCiH, L.,East Concord, N. H. : Graph- 
ite from Deering, N. H. Exchange. 
35962. 

Clute, Willard N., Binghamton, N. Y.: 
Two hundred and ninety-three plants 
from Jamaica. Purchase. 36566. 

Cobb, J. L., Lincolnton, N. C. Specimen 
of woolly aphids. 36603. 

Cochrane, M. H., Madison, Ind. : Beetle 
{Dymistcs titi/ns L. ). 36115. 

CocKERELL, Prof. T. D. A. (See under 
New Mexico Agricultural Ex])eriment 
Station. ) 

Cohn, A., Carson City, Nev. : Three pho- 
tographs of Washoe Indian basketry. 
36120. 

Colburn, a. E., W'ashington, D. C. : 
Skeleton of an otter. 35731. 

Cole, Mary A., Washington, D. C. : Spec- 
imen of Triton {Spelerpes ruber) . 35855. 



86 



REPORT OF NATFONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Coleman, Richard. (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution. ) 

Coles, Mrs. C. S., Washington, D. C: 
Sandal from San Juan River, Nicaragua. 
(35481); Turkey "call." (36368.) 

CoLLETT, I'rof. Robert, Zoological Mu- 
seum, ('hristiania, Norway: Fifteen 
microtine rodents from Norway. 35816. 

Collins, F. S., Maiden, Mass.: Seventy- 
five plants. Purchase. (35598, 36110, 
36422. ) 

Collins, G. N., Department of Agricul- 
ture: Collection of Odonata, from the 
District of Columbia and vicinity 
(35822); 8 specimens of Odonata from 
the same vicinity (35823); 245 speci- 
mens of miscellaneous insects from 
Miami (bounty, Fla. (35262); plant 
(35267); 60 specimens of Mola tenella, 
from Maryland (36402); specimen of 
Alanianda (36570.) 

Collins, H. F., Barroteran, Coah, Mexico: 
Larvae of 2 beetles. 36550. 

Collins, J. F., Brown University, Provi- 
dence, R. I. : Thirty specuinens of vio- 
lets. Exchange. 35796. 

Colquitt, G. D., Washington, D. ().: 
Specimen of Cowkiller {MiitiUaocciden- 
t(dh Linnanis). 35397. 

CoLViLL, W.,]*oint Bleue, Lake St. John, 
Canada. Received through Dr. D. \V. 
Prentiss: Skin of an albino muskrat 
{Fiber zih(ihirns). 35667. 

CoMSTocK, F. W. ( See under Case School 
of Applied Science, Cleveland, Ohio.) 

Congress, Library of. Received through 
Hon. Herbert Putnam, librarian; 
Thirty-three fragments of flags cap- 
tured during the war of the Revolution 
and the war of 1812. Doan. 35989. 

Connell, (t. W., Ponce, P. R. : Specimen 
of Spider wasp, Pepsis xpeciosa. 36421. 

CoNZATTi, C, Oaxaca, Mexico: Plant. 
36379. 

Cook, J. U., Los Angeles, Cal. : Quartz 
containing sulphides of copper and 
molybdenum. 36653. 

Cook, Prof. (). F., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Three i)lants from Porto Rico 
(gift) (35930); 400>:i)eciniens of crypto- 
gams from the vicinity of the District 
of Columbia (gift) '(36015); basket 
made of " Poma rosa," EiKjcnifijaiiihox, 



Cook, Prof. (). F. — Continued. 

from Porto Rico (exchange) (36349); 
5 cryptogams from Maryland and the 
Distri(;t of Colnmlna (gift) (3()62S). 

CoPELAj^D, Vj. B., Morgantown, W. Va. : 
Sixty-three i)lants from California, Col- 
orado, and other localities. 36101. 

Copper Queen Consolidated Mining 
Company, New York City. Received 
through George Notman, secretary: 
Stalactites from the Copper Queen 
mines at Bisbee, Ariz. 36470. 

Coquillett, D. W., Department of Agri- 
culture: Four liundred specimens of 
Diptera, including 46 species, types of 
3 new genera and 29 new s])ecies 
(36042); (510 specimens of diptennis 
insects l)elonging to the family Antho- 
myidie (36551). 

Cory, Ernest, Takoma Park, 1). C. : Two 
specimens of a species of MitronHiccs. 
36380. 

('otheal. Miss E. H. (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution. ) 

C/OUBEAUX, Eugene, Prince Albert, Sas- 
katchewan, Canada: Four birds' skins 
(35535); 9 ])irds' skins (36394). Lx- 
change. 

CoviLLE, F. V. (See under Agriculture, 
Department of.) 

Cox, Fmerv, Brightwood, I). ('. : Two 
specimens of Star-nosed Mole, ('iiikIi/- 
lura cristatd. 3()387. 

('RAGIN, F. W. (See under ('harles 
Schuchert.) 

Cranmer, Dr. ('. C, New York City: 
Seed of an eui)horbiaceous plant 
known as the INIexican "Jumping 
Bean," ( '((r/Kicdr/Ki sultltaiis AVestro. 
35503. 

Craver, Rev. Samuel P. (See under 
William T. Foster. ) 

Crawford, Dr. Joseph, Philadeli)hia, 
Pa.: Specimens of Care.r lunhellata (ex- 
change) (35340); specimen of Ixcetei^ 
dodgei {exchange) (35868); specimen of 
Vinhi (exchange) (35464); 50 speci- 
mens of violets (exchange) (36513); 
15 specimens of Viola brhtonidiKi from 
Pennsylvania (gift) (36542). 

CREVEca':uR, F. F.,Onaga, Kans. : Bones, 
fossil plants, and inollusks from Kan- 
sas. 36546. 



I.IS'l' OK ACCKSSIONS. 



S7 



("itocKirrr, l>r. .). (i., I'lilaski, Va. : Koyal 
lldfiu'd C-aterpillar, < 'll/iiroiiin rrj/nlis 
l-a))r. 85408. 

CuosBV, F. W., Washington, D. C. Re- 
ceived through ('. Droop: Specimens of 
pitchntone and kapper qnartz from Sax- 
ony (pnrchase) (85511); 8 pieces of 
orl)icnlar granite fiom Quonochontaug, 
K. I. (purchase) (85628, 85959); 2 
specimens of sphalerite in chert (gift) 
(86185) ; galenite in staiactitic form 
(purchase) (86482) ; specimen of sphal- 
erite in gangue (gift) (36696). 

Crosby, F. W. (See under James Roach.) 

Crosby, W. ()., Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Boston, Mass.: Specimens 
of corundum from North Carolina and 
Georgia. Exchange. 85888. 

Cross, F. J., Keystone, S. Dak.: Speci- 
men of gold ore from the Cross mine 
(85614) ; geological specimen from the 
Silver Queen lode claim (35783). 

Cross, Whitman', U. S. Geological Survey: 
Fifty-eight specimens of rocks from 
Saxony. 85886. (See under Interior 
Department, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 

Ci'LiN, Stkwart, University of IVnnsyl- 
vania, I'hiladelphia, Pa.: Plaster cast 
of a stout' object. 85549. 

Ci'KKii:, R. v., V. S. .Xational Museum: 
< )ne hundred and twenty-six spi'cimens 
of Odonata, from the Districtof (-ohun- 
hia au<l vicinity (85825); 16 species of 
Odonata, from E.ssex Comity, Va. 
(85826). 

Curtis, W. E., Ladner, British Colum- 
l)ia: Two stone hammers and two stone 
mortars obtained from the Kit Kahtla 
Indians. 85787. 

CrRTis.s, A. 11., Jacksonville, Fla. : Two 
hundred and twenty plants from the 
Southern States (purchase) (86160); 
205 plants (exchange) (86165). (See 
under cstatcof^Vlrs. Floretta.\. Curtiss.) 

CiRTiss, Estate ot' Mrs. Fi.oKE'n'A A. 
Received througli .\. 11. Curtiss, Jack- 
sonville, Fla.: One thousand one hun- 
dred and sixty plants, (consisting of 
Al(/:i flirt ix.yi(iii:i 85864. Betpieathed 
to the National Museum. 

CusHi.\(i, E. M. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Jiureau of Ethnology. ) 



(rsKK, \V. C, Cnion, Oreg. Received 
through the Dei)artment of Agriculture: 
Three hmidred and forty-four plants 
(purchase) (35978); 7 specimens of 
Umbellifeia- (gift) (86062); 244 jtlants 
from Oregon (purchase ) (86428) . 

Cutler, J. E., Denver, Colo.: Sj^ecimens 
of Phyllopoda. Excliange. 86416. 

I)A(i(;E'rr, Hon. Joux, Blackbear, Cal.: 
l^nfinished Klamath basket, with speci- 
mens of all the materials used in mak- 
ing it; j)hotographs of finished examples 
and descriptions of the work. 36156. 

Dall, W. H., it. S. Geological Survey: 
Tertiary fossils (35518) ; collection of 
Tertiary fossils from various localities 
in Alaska, collected during the Ifarii- 
man Exi)edition (35740); nioilusks 
collected during the Harriman Expedi- 
tion at Shoshone and Blue Lake, near 
Shoshone Falls, Idaho, Lowe Iidet, 
British Columbia, Biorka Island, Sitka 
Sound, English Bay, Kadiak, Dutch 
Harboi-, I'nalaska and St. Matthews 
Lsland, P>ering Sea (35771); fossils of 
bowlder clay (Pleistocene) from Doug- 
las Island, .Maska, from 75 to 200 feet 
a])ove tide, oii the line of the water pipe 
by wliicli t lie village issuppliei] (. 85772); 
insects from (ilacier Ray, Alaska, and 
from tile moraine in iVont of tiii^ 
Gi'ewingk (ilacier, Karliekmak Bay, 
Cook's Inlet, Alaska, collected <lin-ing 
the Harriman Fxju'dition; also beetle 
and spideis from Riorka Island, Sitka 
Sound, Alaska (35773); wooden spoon 
carved by Chilkat Indians of Alaska 
(35982); 200 land shells, principally 
from Alaska and California (86077). 

Daniel, Lieut. J. W., U. S. A., Lynch- 
burg, Va. : Mammal skins from Matan- 
zas, Cuba (35747) ; hummingbird {Spo- 
r<i<UniiN nccordi) from (Hiba (35894); 
collection of birds from Cuba (86088); 
skin of a i)assenger pigeon, Hctd/iisti's 
iiiii/rtitorlns (.8t)089). 

l>\NiEi.s, L. E., Rrookston, Ind.; Inion- 
i<la' (35760, .85810, 3606:!); craylishes 
(36637). 

Darton, N. H. (See under Interior De- 
partment, r. S. Geological Survey.) 

Daveni'ort, H. C., East Orange, N. J.: 
Vulturine Guinea fowl (86164); Pheas- 
ant, Thduma/rii itljKciirK (36230.) 



88 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Davidson, Dr. Anstruther, Clifton, 
Ariz. : Collection of insects. 36065. 

Davis, C. G., Pnnta Gorda, Fla. : Larv;e 
of flannel moths (Megalopi/ge opercu- 
l(trls), and pupariaof dipteron. 35921. 

Davis, T. C, Marion, S. C: An ear of 
corn of abnormal growth. 35570. 

Davis, W. T., New Brighton, N. Y.: 
Forty specimens of violets (35313); 100 
specimens of Mola and one specimen 
of Mudbeckia (35413). Exchange. 

Davison, Mrs. L. P., Fort Myer, Va. : 
Decoration from the cap of a Spanish 
officer, Porto Rico. 35508. 

Davy, J. B., Berkeley, Cal. : One hun- 
dred and ten plants collected in Cali- 
fornia by Messrs. Davy and W. C. 
Blasdale. Purchase. 36376. 

Dawson, Mrs. Caroline, Washington, 
D. C. : .Specimen of Stugmotnentis Caro- 
lina L. 35620. 

Dean, S. B., Arlington, Mass. : Five speci- 
mens of European heating and illumi- 
nating apparatus. Purchase. 36437. 

Deane, Walter, Cambridge, Mass. : 
Seventy-eight plants. Exchange. 
35867. 

Deisher, H. K., Kutztown, Pa. Received 
through Smithsonian Institution, Bu- 
reau of Ethnology: Thirteen arrow- 
heads. 36170. 

De Nvse, W. I., Gravesend Beach, Brook- 
lyn, N. Y.: Specimen of Chloroscoml/nig 
chrysurus. 35688. 

Devlin, E., jr., U. S. National Museum: 
Common mole {Scalops aquaticus). 
36465. 

DeWeese, Dall, Canon City, Colo.: Skin, 
skull, and leg liones of a calf moose, 
Alces fjicjaH. 35627. 

Dewey, L. H., Departmentof Agriculture: 
Specimen of Shortia. 36446. (See 
under Agriculture, Department of. ) 

Dewhurst, Miss Bessie L., Worcester, 
Mass.: Chrysomelid beetles. 36576. 

DiCKERSON, F. B., Detroit, Mich.: Dog- 
day Locust {Cicada canicidaris Harris). 
35467. 

Dickie, W. W., Richmond, Ya. : Wheel 
bug {Prionidus mstatus LinnjBus). 
35711. 

Dickinson, John, pjstate of, New York 
City: Carbon, diamond dust, etc. Pur- 
chase. 36614. 



DiETz, Dr. W. G., Hazelton, Pa. : Six spec- 
imens of Microlepidoptera. 36420. 

DiLLER, J. S. (See under Brown, W. Q., 
and Interior Department, U. S. Geo- 
logical Survey.) 

Dingus, H. H., Nasbie, Va. : Fossil plants. 
36370. 

DoANE, Prof. R. W., Pullman, Wash.: 
Eighty-three specimens of Diptera. 
36199. (See under Washington Agri- 
cultural College, Pullman, Wash. ) 

Dodge, B. E., Richfield, Mich.: Walking- 
stick, IMapheromera femorata Say. 
35404. 

Dodge, G. M., Louisiana, Mo. : Four speci- 
mens of C'aiocalei<, including one type 
specimen (36212); 30 specimens of 
Microlepidoptera and living larva? of a 
Catocala (36535). 

Dodge, Mrs. Katherine T., Washington, 
D. C. : Collection of photographs of 
American Indians. Purchase. 35966. 

DoDsoN, Dr. W. P., Flatbush, N. Y.: Sev- 
enty ethnological objects from Africa. 
36436. 

DoLAN, J. J., U. S. National Museum: 
Brown Bat ( Vesjiertdio fuscus). 36347. 

Donovan, Steve, Glenns Ferry, Idaho: 
Neck vertebra of a camel found in a 
sandstone concretion. 35671. 

DoRAN, Charles, Washington, D. C. : Col- 
lection of Spanish stamps made during 
the Spanish-American war. 36273. 

Dorsey, G. a. (See under Barnhart Bros. 
& Spindler. ) 

Drake, C. M., Gorda, Cal.: Marine shells 
and a starfish. 35466. 

Drew, S. H. (See under Wanganui, New 
Zealand, Public Museum.) 

Droop, C. (See under F. W. Crosby.) 

Druery, C. T., London, England: Three 
specimens of ferns. Exchange. 35477. 

Du BosE, G. M.. Lisbon, Ga. : Unio shells 
(exchange) (35469); fossils from Iowa 
(gift) (35513) ; land shells (gift) (35720) ; 
4 species of fresh-water mussels and a 
shell of^ a liox turtle from Georgia 
(36533). 

I)u BosE, J. H., Huguenot, Ga. : Frag- 
ments of pottery, arrow-heads, and 
other archajological objects. 35353. 

Du BuissoN, G. H., New York City: 
Seven specimens of Silver fish moths 
( Lepisma saccharina Linna?us) . 35473. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



89 



DrcKwoRTH, C. L., Arden, W. Va. : Per- 
forated stone tablet. 36080. 

Dudley, J. H., Tacoma, Wash.: Speci- 
mens of Plafiirdia caja Linna'us. 35484. 

DiERPEX, J. E. (See under Kingston, 
Jamaica, Institute of Jamaica. ) 

DuGES, Prof. A., Guanajuato, INIexico. 
Six birds' skins, specimens ot Sphseroma 
dugesi Dollfus, and dipterous larv?e 
(35285); 2 plants (35574); Coppery- 
tailed Trogon, Trogoii ambigmis; speci- 
mens of lichens and a moth from the 
galls of Tecouta miillis (35714); 37 plants 
(35916); large oak gall (35944); nest 
and larvae of Em-heira sucinlis Westw., 
and 2 specimens of lichens (36010); 
4 plants from ]\Iexico (36054); 3 birds' 
skins (36342). 

Ditcher, Lieut. B. H. (See under Agri- 
culture, Department of. ) 

D\AR, Dr. H. G., Department of Agri- 
culture: Small collection oi' Hymenop- 
tera from Maryland (35538); miscella- 
neous collection of insects from South- 
ern Florida (36237). 

Dys.vrt, Miss Annie E., H. Matamoras. 
Mexico: Six plants from Mexico 
(36471); 2 water lilies {Nymphsea ele- 
gans) (36526). 

E.\MEs, Dr. E. H., Bridgeport, Conn.: 
One hundred and sixty specimens of 
violets. Exchange. 35414. 

■E.\RLE, F. S., Agricultural Experiment 
Station, Auburn, Ala. : Three hundred 
and twenty-seven plants (exchange) 
(35380); 112 plants from Xew ilexico 
(purchase) (35517); 19 plants (ex- 
change) (36301). 

E.\RLY, J. H., Darlington, S. C. Re- 
ceived througli Frank Burns: Bird- 
shai)ed ornament of brown slate from 
South Carolina. 36476. 

E.\sTERBROOK, WiLLi.\M, Camden, N. J. : 
Countersigned pass dated March 6, 
1862; piece of a Confederate flag sup- 
posed to have been carried by General 
Morgan in Kentucky. 35449. 

Eastwood, Miss Alice, San Francisco, 
Cal. : One hundred and seventy plants 
(35374); 96 plants (35399). Exchange. 

E.\TON, A. A., Seabrook, N. H.: Two 
ferns (35624); 160 specimens of violets 
(35712); 18 plants (35775); 6 plants, 
principally type specimens of the genus 
Imlt's (36130). Exchange. 



Eaton, J. M. C, Irvington, X. J.: Six 
eggs of a snapping turtle. 35324. 

Eaton, Misses, Boston, Mass.: Five pho- 
tographs of baskets. 35981. 

Eby, Mrs. A. F., Lancaster, Pa. Re- 
ceived through Department of Agricul- 
ture: Eight plant.? from Pennsylvania. 
36075. 

Edison, T. A., Orange, N. J.: Model of 
"Spectacle type" phonograph, the 
first pattern u.sed after the tin-foil rec- 
ord machines. 35337. 

E<;gleston, W. W., Rutland, Vt. : Four 
hundred and twenty-two plants (36255 ) ; 
20 plants from Vermont (35873). Ex- 
change. 

Ehrhorn, E. ^I., ^Mountain View, Cal. 
Received through Dr. L. O. Howard: 
Small collection of ]\Iyriapods, etc. 
35728. 

Ehr-Mann, G. A., Pittsburg, Pa.: Seven- 
teen specimens of Diptera. Exchange. 
35769. 

Eigenmann, Dr. C. H., Bloomington, 
Ind. : Type specimens of Brackenr'ulgia 
cavemarum, from Yzel's Cave, San Mar- 
cos, Tex. (35984); land shells from 
Beaver Cave, near San Marcos, Tex. 
(35925). 

Eliot, Sir Charles, British Embassy, 
Washington, D. C. : Collection of ma- 
rine invertebrates from Samoa (35615); 
insects from Samoa (36292). (See un- 
der H. Suter.) 

Elliott, J. D., Dale, Idaho: Specimen of 
alum. 35478. 

Elrod, Dr. M. N., Columbus, Ind.: 
Twenty-five specimens of Semimihi 
euzniia from the St. Louis and Kaskas- 
kia formations of Indiana. 36241. 

Emmons, Lieut. (4. T., U. S. N., Princeton, 
X. J. : (^illectiou of ethnological objects 
from Alaska. Exchange. 36189. 

Emmons, S. F., U. S. Geological Survey: 
Specimens of Peruvian copper- bearing 
rocks. 36188. 

English, G. L. & Co., Xew York City: 
Fifteen specimens of minerals. Pur- 
chase. 35529. 

Eng-Man, E. J. Received tlirough De- 
partment of Agriculture: Two plants 
from Louisiana. 35951. 

Enos, H. C, Porters Station, Del.: Speci- 
men of neuropteroid insect. 35310. 



90 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



KvANs, Gt.kn W., Olivet, Mich.: Efficiy 
])ilH'. I'nrcliust'. .'ifUdVI. 

Evans, J. M., Maitland, Ala. : Ethnologi- 
cal objects. Purchase. 8(il48. 

Evens and Howard Fihe Brick Com- 
pany, St. Louis, Mo. Received through 
O. P. Blake: Terra-cotta model of the 
battle ship Mahic. 35258. ♦ 

EvERMANN, B. W. ( See under Fish Com- 
mission, v. S. ) 

Faile, M., Washington, I). C. : Plants 
(35266, 8«1 85,36202). 

Fant, a. L., U. S. National Museum: 
Copper (toin of Russia (35902) ; 2 speci- 
mens of State script (i)arish of Con- 
cordia, La., April 15, 1S62, and county 
of Fluvanna, Va., February 23, 1863) 
(36059). 

Farrington, Prof. O. C'. (See under 
Field Colnml)ian Museum, Chicago, 
111.) 

Faville, (f. C'., Norfolk, Va. : Specimen 
of silica from Chalk Creek, Wayne 
County, Tenn. 35559. 

Faxon, Dr. Walter. (See under Muse- 
um of Comparative Zoology, Cam- 
bridge, Mass. ) 

Fay, H. W., Be Kalb, 111.: Four photo- 
graphs illustrating arch;i.'ological olv 

jects. mmo. 

Fay, .loiix, Minci-ul Point, Kuns. Re- 
ceived tiirough l)c]iai-tment of Agri- 
culture: I'lantfrom Kansas. 36583. 

Fearn, Dr. .T. B., Yazoo, Miss.: Six .Tap- 
anesi' coins. 3546S. 

Feath ERsTONii a ug h , TuoM AS, Washing- 
ton, I). C. : Five watch movements. 
35514. 

Ferriss, James H., Joliet, 111.: Three 
unios from Arkansas. 35913. 

Fewkes, J. Walter, U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Loom (35265); feathers used in 
the Soyaluna ceremony in 1899 among 
the Moki Indians of Arizona (36098). 
(See under Smithsonian Institution, 
Bureau of Etluu)logy.) 

Field Columbian Museitm, Chicago, 111.: 
Received through Prof. O. C. Farring- 
ton: Specimen of Mjelokrynitschie 
meteorite and a specimen of Schrmcn- 
berg meteorite. 35892. 

Finn, Frank. (See under Calcutta, In- 
dia, Indian Museum.) 



Finn, John, Wasliinglon, !).('.: Kissing- 
bug, }fr/(iii(ilt'Mi's j>ifi/)i's 11. Schp. 
35329. 

Fischer, V. (T.,ct Co., Washington, I). C. : 
Five pieces of Delft ware. Purchase. 
36023.. 

Fish Commission, U. S., Hon. G. M. 
Bowers, Commissioner: Marine shells 
and insects in alcohol collected in Porto 
Rico during the cruise of the steamer 
Fl.^h Ildvk- in 1898-99 (35421 ) ; 51 plants 
collected bvDr.W. C. Kendall at Sel)ago 
Lake, Cobbosseecontee Lake, Rattle- 
snake Pond, and Panther Pond, Maine, 
in 1899 (35576); received through 
Dr. H. M. Smitli, 2 species of unios 
from Georgia ( 35670 ) ; received through 
Prof. B. W. Evermann, 7 specimens of 
Odonata from Indiana (35820); plants 
from the Wal)ash Basin (35852); 2 
specimens of xVtlantic salmon, Salmo 
salnr, from the Penobsc(jt River, Maine 
(35857); 2 specimens of land-locked 
salmon, Salmo salar sebago, from Grand 
Lake, Maine (35910) ; specimen of Cal- 
linecte>i mpidus with a white claw, from 
Hampton Bar, obtained by N. Raynor 
and transferred to the Museum by 
Dr. H. M. Smith (35957); specimen of 
Li/sloKfjitil.lii. .sr(iftrlc((iiij(i, from the Gulf 
of Mexico (.36.308); 16 specimens of 
coral from Porto Rico (36448); cray- 
lislies from CajK- Henry, Virginia, cf)l- 
lected by Dr. II. M. Smith (36553); 7 
specimens of Poito Rico corals (36()18); 
si)ecimens of Japanese, Alaskan, Ha- 
waiian, and Californian tishes collected 
by the steamer Alhatroxx (36693). (See 
under Boei)])le, J. F.; Mrs. C. B. 
Chapman. ) 

Fisher, II. L., Califon, N. J. : Specimen of 
( 'allimorpha clymene Brown. 35349. 

Fisher, W. H., Baltimore, Md. : Six pho- 
tographs of snakes. 35648. 

FisKE, W. F., Durham, N. 11.: Sixteen 
six'cimeiis of l.cpidoptera. l"'xcbange. 
35952. 

I'lTZGERALD, Margaret P.,Kneeland, Cal. 
Received through Di'j^artment of Agri- 
culture: Specimen of I'InIn haHi'i, from 
California. 36405. 

Flahault, Professor. (See under Agri- 
culture, De])artment of. ) 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



91 



Fi.KMixG, J. H., Toronto, Ontario, Canada: 
TwosknllHdf nioosr ( Alcfxinnrrlcmiiis). 

Fi.KTt'UKK, Jamks, Ottawa, Canada. Re- 
reivi'd throngh Dr. L. O. Howard: Col- 
lection of Diptera and other insects 
from Mount Cheani, Briti.>^h C'ohnnbia, 
and Canada. 35707. 

Flett, J. B., Tacoma, Wash. Received 
through Department of Agriculture: 
One hundred and thirty-two plants 
(85961); 6 plants (36072); 10 specimens 
of ferns (36479). (See under Maxon, 
W. R. ) 

FooTE, Dr. A. E., Philadelphia, Pa.: 
Ninety-three specimens of minerals. 
Purchase (35533, 36287). 

FoREPAUGH, Adam, and Selt^s Bkothers 
Circus: Rhinoceros {Rhinoceros bicor- 
'/)is), in the flesh. 36410. 

Forney, A. H., U. S. National Museum: 
Specimen of Dindophis ptinctatus, from 
Virginia. 35491. 

Foster, W. T., Sapucay, Paraguay. Re- 
ceived through Rev. 8. P. Graver: Col- 
lection of moths, butterflies, beetles, 
and a frog from Paraguay (35692, 35813). 

Fowler, Prof. James, Kingston, Ontario, 
Canada: Twenty-four specimens of 
Canadian violets. Exchange. 35888. 

Fo.v, Dr. B. F., New Smyrna, Fla. : Three- 
tailed snake, Eumere.'i fasrioiiis. .'55465. 

Foxi-ee, E. W., Acton, London, England: 
Ten photo-enamels, LalindeCarmarsaes 
process, 1864. Purchase. 36375. 

Frazak, Everett M., Yokohama, Japan. 
Received through George B. Frazar: 
Specimens of sulphur from Moyoro, 
Island of F:torf u, Kurile Islands. 36187. 

Frazar, G. B. ( See under E. W. Frazar. ) 

French, Capt. F. H., U. S. A., Manila, 
P. I.: Six amulets of stamped paper 
used l)y the Filipinos as a protection 
against American bullets, and taken 
from a Filipino j)risoner at Logod, 
Cebu. 36429. 

Frierson, L. S., Fi'ierson, La.: Three 
specimens of flies {Oscmis trigramma 
Low) (35296) ; crayfish {Camhai-iis 
diogenes ludoncianus Faxon) (35288); 
specimens of Unio amphichxnua (35596) ; 
5 species of unios (35664); unios from 
Alabama (35809); crayfish {(htahariix 
argilUcola Faxon ) ( 36435 ) ; 2 crayfishes 



Frierson, L. S. — Continued. 

(.3(1-554); 10 specimens of crayfishes 
( ( '(imhoriis iHo(ji'nis:uu\ ( 'niiilxirns liloiid- 
ivgii (icutHK) (36592); specimen of ^.'oc- 
nns planorbh, from Zanzibar (36675). 
Frishmith, Mrs. S. E., Philadelphia, Pa. : 

French bagpipe. Purchase. 35877. 
Fritsch, Dr. Anton. ( See under Prague, 
Bohemia; K. K. Br)hmische, Karl- 
F'erdinand-Universitilt; Prague, Bohe- 
mia, Museum des Konigreichs Boh- 
men.) 
Fritz, C. D., Sellersville, Pa. : Five plants. 

35876. 
Frobenius, L., Leipzig, (iermany: Col- 
lection of spears and stone implements 
from islands in the ludo-Pacific Ocean 
and from Western Africa. Exchange. 
35240. 
Froggatt, Prof. Walter W., Department 
of Agriculture, Sydney, New South 
Wales: Collection of parasitic Hymen- 
optera from New Zealand. 36673. 
Fuller, C. V., Lansing, Mich.: Casts of 
bird amulet and banner stone. 35988. 
Fuller, J. J., W^eiser, Idaho: Fossil leaf 
impression from the foothills of Bitter 
Root range, southwestern jiortion of 
Washington County, Idaho. 35497. 
Fyles, Rev. T. W., Levis, Quebec, Can- 
ada. Received through Department of 
Agriculture: Miscellaneous collection 
of insects from Quebec. 3623(5. (See 
under Agriculture, Department of. ) 
(iADSDEN, J. B. (See under Treasury 

Department, Light-House Board.) 
Gann, T., Corozal, Cohjmbia, South 
America: Plaster cast of a flint imple- 
ment. 36611. 
Gates, Dr. W. A., Rockland, Mich.: 
Three pieces of native copper used l)y 
American Indians. 35479. 
Gestro, Dr. R., Museo Civico di Storia 
Naturale, Genoa, Italy: Three Burmese 
rats. Exchange. 3(5052. 
GiERs, F. T., Port of Spain, Trinidad, 
West Indies: Twenty-eight bats trom 
Trinidad; (35330) 61 bats from 
Trinidad (36322.) 
GiES, A. J., chief inspector streets and 
drainage, Manila, P. I.: Ethnological, 
tiistorical, and technological objects, 
and four horns of mammals. Purcha.se. 
36555. 



92 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSKUM, 1900. 



Gilbert, Hon. B. D., Clayville, N. Y.: 
Two specimens of ferns (35860); 9 
specimens of Aspleniiun (36048). 
Exchange. 

(th.hekt, Prof. C. H. (See under Leland 
Stanford Junior University. ) 

Gill, Dr. Theodore, Smithsonian Insti- 
tution: Specimens of Mus musculus 
(35941,36323.) 

Gillian, Rev. J. D., Pocatello, Idaho: 
Lumbar vertebra of a camel. 35275. 

Glassford, Maj. William, U. S. A., Chief 
Signal Officer, San Juan, P. R. : Three 
birds' skins. Deposit. 36489. 

Glatfelter, Dr. N. M., St. Louis, Mo.: 
Seventy plants (35376); 25 specimens 
of violets (35494). Exchange. 

Glen Island Museum, New Rochelle, 
N. Y. : Fossil Gar Pike. Exchange. 
36126. 

Glenn, Capt. E. F., U. S. A., Vancouver 
Barracks, Wash.: Rocky Mountain goat. 
36090. 

Glenn, William, Baltimore, Md. Re- 
ceived through Prof. F. W. Clarke: 
Sand chrome and chrome salt. 35743. 

GoDBUG, T. K., Waldo, Fla. Received 
through Department of Agriculture: 
Specimen of Rhinenra floridana, from 
Waldo. 35286. 

GoDiNG, Hon. F. W., U. S. Consul, New- 
castle, New South Wales: Collection of 
aboriginal weapons and utensils. 35704. 

Goldman, E. A. (See under Agriculture, 
Department of , and Mrs. N. M. Brown. ) 

GoLL, G. P., Washington, I). C: Plants 
from Porto Rico. (36018,36055.) Pur- 
chase. 

Gordon, R. H., Cumberland, Md. : Nine 
specimens of Lower Helderberg fossils. 
35725. 

Goward, Gustavus, Washington, D. C. : 
Collection of Korean pottery (36044); 
intaglio drawing on ivory; carved bam- 
boo brush holder; hot-iron etching on 
paper; fan umbrella; lacquer twine 
holder; Korean measure; 2 Korean key 
holders; pocket looking-glass; twine 
winder; pipe bowl inlaid with silver 
(36499); 2 Etruscan vases, 3 Chinese 
vases, Korean vase, 2 Japanese vases, 
and a Chinese teapot (36350). Pur- 
chase. 



Graenicher, Dr. Sigmund, Milwaukee, 
Wis.: Twelve specimens of Diptera (two 
species new to the collection). 35926. 

Graham, G. A., Graham, Tex. Received 
through Department of Agriculture: 
Specimen of DducmpusiUus, from Texas. 
36661. 

Grant, F. H. McK., Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia: Three hundred and eighty- 
nine specimens of Eocene and Oligocene 
fossils from Hamilton, Victoria, Aus- 
tralia. Exchange. 36095. 

Graves, J. A., Susquehanna, Pa.: Two 
plants. Exchange. 36175. 

Gray Herbarium, Boston, Mass.: Plants. 
(35933, 36401, 36138.) Exchange. 

Gray, R. P., EastOrland, Me.: Specimen 
of parasitic copepod. 36073. 

Grebnitski, N. a., St. Petersburg, Rus- 
sia: Four skins of fur seals {Callofaria 
ursina). 35901. 

Greene, Prof. E. L., Catholic University, 
Washington, D. C: Specimen of Soli- 
dago montirola {gift) (35972); specimen 
of Ribes metiziesii, from California (ex- 
change). 36443. 

Greene, W. Maxwell, LT. S. Consul, 
Hamilton, Bermudas: Specimens of 
hard, fine-grained limestone found near 
Shelly Bay, Bermuda. 36501. 

Greene, Hon. W. Maxwell. (See un- 
der J. Brooks Hunt.) 

Gresley, W. S., Erie, Pa. Received 
through F. H. Knowlton: Fossil plants. 
36314. 

Greyson, T. B.,Waghorn, Alberta, North- 
west Territory: Nine specimens of Ere- 
bia diseordalis. 35537. 

Grice, Frank, San Antonio, Tex.: Four 
fossil teeth of the Southern Mammoth, 
Elephm colomhl. 36455. 

Griffin, W., Somerset, Ky. : Fossil cri- 
noid. 35564. 

Griffith, H. K., Washington, D. C: 
Old-style bicycle. 35291. 

Griffiths, David. (See under Agricul- 
ture, Department of. ) 

Grinnell, Joseph, Pasadena, Cal. : Eight 
birds' skins from Alaska (35986, 36438) . 

Gross, J. Mason. (See under Rhode 
Island Graphite Company. ) 

Grout, A. J., Plymouth, N. H.: Thirty- 
six specimens of mosses. Exchange. 
35373. 



LlSf OF ACCESSIONS. 



93 



GuNN, Calvin, St. Louis, Mo. : Stone 
club head found on an ancient Indian 
camp ^iite near jVIigi^issinawa River, 
Wabash County, Ind. 3el078. 

Guthrie, Lkon J., AVilleinstad, Curasao, 
West Indies: Bats from the West In- 
dies (36111, 86524). Purchase. 

Haley, C. B., Oklahoma City, Okla. T.: 
Specimen of Wheel bug, Prionidus cris- 
tatux Linnteus. 35754. 

Hall, R. J., Fort Plain, N. Y. : Fragments 
of pottery from an Indian burial site, 
Minden, N. Y. 3H548. 

Hallock, Charles, Washington, D. C. : 
Fourteen specimens of fossils from 
various localities. 35774. 

Hamilton, J. A., Chambersburg, Pa.: 
Larva of Photimts p>jralls Linnaeus. 
35245. 

Hammell, p. J., Bellevue, Iowa: Five 
arrow-points. 36128. 

Hammond, J. B. (See under Smithson- 
ian Institution.) 

Hami'sox, Sir Georok. (See under Lon- 
don, England; British Museum.) 

Handwerk, J. H., Joliet, 111.: Three 
specimens of Pisldium Imndwerki Sterki, 
from a type lot obtained in Joliet. 
36067. 

Hansard, A. C, Luguillo, P. R. : Nests 
of trapdoor ants from Porto Rico. 
35318. 

Hard, W. M., Colon, Colombia, South j 
America: Twenty specimens of Lepi- | 
doptera. Purchase. 36639. 

Haring, a. B., Frenchtown, N. J.: Two 
insects. 35553. 

Harper, M. L., & Co., Washington, D, C. : 
Specimens of mineral waters. Pur- 
chase. 36574. 

Hark, Miss Alice, Forest Glen, Md. : 
Specimens of Diemi^ctyhifi miniatvs, 
from Maryland. 36655. 

Harriman, a. S., Bucksport, Me.; Two 
collections of insects. (35281, 35455.) 

Harriman, Edward H., Harriman Ex- 
pedition. Received through Dr. C. 
Hart Merriam: Large collection of 
Alaskan insects and arachnids. 36670. 

Harris, Graham H., Chicago, 111. : Trout 
{Salve/ inus marstoiii), from Lake Tou- 
rilli, Quebec. 35656. 

Harrison, Ben.iamin, Jacksonville, Fla. : 
Jaws of a tiger shark from Nassau 
Sound. 35871. 



Harrison, Miss Carrie, Department of 
Agriculture: Five plants. 35660. 

Harrison, W. H., Petersburg, Va. : 
Hawk-moth. 36477. 

Hart, C. A., Urbana, 111.: Two speci- 
mens of Saw flies {Schizocerus zabriskei 
Ashm.). 35943. 

Harvey, F. L. (See under Agriculture, 
Department of. ) 

Harward, Miss Winnie, Albuquenjue, 
N. Mex. : Two plants. 36537. 

Harwood, Dr. George, Johnson City, 
Tex.; Larva of Texas Screw- worm, 
(^hrysomyid {Liicilis) rnacellaria Fabr. 
36144. 

Hasbkoick, Dr. E. M., Washington, D. C. : 
Skin of Brown Pelican, Pelecanttsfuscus, 
from Florida (exchange) (36040); 2 
Crossbills {Loxia curvirsotris minor') 
(gift) (36167). 

Hassall, Dr. Albert, Department of 
Agriculture: Plant from the District of 
Colum))ia (35571); bat {Vespertiliofus- 
cus) (35927). 

Hasseltine, B. L. (See under Brown, 
W. L. ) 

Hatcher, J. B., Princeton, N. J.: Collec- 
tion of reptiles, batrachians, and fishes 
from South America. 35802. 

Hause, H. D., Syracuse, N. Y. : Fifteen 
plants (35516); specimen of Pyrola 
secunda (35450); 2 violets (36539); 35 
specimens of Viola selkirki (36527); 5 
violets from central New York (36625). 
Exchange. 

Havens, Capt. J. G. W., U. S. Life-Saving 
Service, Point Pleasant, N. J. : Cutlass- 
fish ( Trichiiiriis kpturun) . 35798. 

Hawks, A. McL., Tacoma, Wash.: Ma- 
rine shells from Washington. 35528. 

Hay, Prof. W. P., Washington, D. C. : 
Triton {Spelerpex ruber) , from the Dis- 
trict of Columbia. 35706. (See under 
Williamson, E. B. ) 

Haymond, Mrs. Dorcas, Morgantown, 
W. Va. : Six pieces of pottery. 36307. 

Hazzard, David, Milton, Del.: Samples 
of iron ore. 36152. 

Heath, Harold, Pacific Crove, Cal.: 
Two specimens of Anomuran crabs 
(35299); Isopods from Monterey Bay 
(35332) . 

Heidemann, O., Department of Agricul- 
ture: Ten s])ecimeiis representing two 
species of Hemiptera, new to the col- 



94 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Heidemann, O. — Continued. 

lection (35563); specimen of Euphorbia 
adenoptera Bertol (35599) ; 4 specimens 
of Aradiis nigerStal (35628); cotypes of 
Aphrophora irrorata Ball, and a speci- 
men of Aphrophora anmdala Ball, from 
Utah and Nebraska (35964) . 

Hellek, a. a., Lancaster, Pa.: Plants 
from Porto Rico. Purchase. (36354, 
36473. ) 

Hemphill, Henry, San Diego, Cal. : Spec- 
imen of selenites from San Diego 
(35427); land-shells (35456). 

Henderson, L. F., Gray Herbarium, Cam- 
bridge, Mass. : Type specimen of plants 
{Dovningia) (gift) (36103); 4 plants 
from Idaho (exchange) (36377, 36400) ; 
plant from Idaho (exchange) (36586). 

Henshaw, H. W., Hilo, Hawaii: Bat 
{Lasiurus xeinota) (gift) (35316); 469 
birds' skins from Hawaii (purchase) 
(35325); crustaceans (gift) (35464, 
35540); crab {Caluppa galhis) (gift) 
(35694); shrimp (gift) ( 36235 ); 3 spec- 
imens of shrimps {Atgoida), from 
Kaiwiki, Hawaii (36528). 

Herrera, Prof. A. L., Museo Nacional, 
Mexico: Memorandum concerning the 
imitation of protoplasm by oleates, 
with preparations illustrating the same. 
36037. 

Hess, L. L., Marathon, Tex.: Received 
through R. T. Hill: Specimen of cin- 
nabar from Terlinga, Brewster County, 
Tex. 35560. 
Hesseltine, T. B. (See under Wilfred 
L. Brown. ) 

Hill, Hon. David J. (See under State 

Department. ) 
Hill, R. T., II. S. (Teological Survey: 
Flint chips from Pefia, Colorado 
Springs, Tex. 35646. (See under L. 
L. Hess.) 
Hill, Mrs. W. E., Fort Bliss Station, El 
Paso, Tex.: Kissing bug {Melanolestei< 
al)doinhialis H. Schaff) . 35365. 
Hillebkand, Dr. W. F., U. S. Geological 
Survey: Vanadium and i-arnotite-bear- 
ing sands from San Miguel River, Pla- 
cerville, near Telluride, Colo. 35:^59. 
Hilliakd, <J. B., Urbana, Ohio: Kissing- 
bug [Mckmolestes picipes H. Schf). 
35418. 



Hills, R. C, Denver, Colo.: Eocene fos- 
sils. 35586. 

Hinds, .1. E., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Electrical 
apparatus. 36642. 

HiNE, Prof. J. S., Ohio State University, 
Columbus, Ohio: Forty specimens of 
dragonflies (35423); 2 specimens of 
dragontlies {Lepthemis gravida Calvert) 
(35817). 

Hitchcock, Prof. A. S., Manhattan, Kans. 
Received through Department of Agri- 
culture: Plant (gift) (35777); 90 violets 
(exchange) (35886). 

Hitchcock, C. H., Hanover, N. H.: Geo- 
logical material from the Hawaiian 
Islands (35600, 36124). Purchase. 

Holland, Dr. J., Pahala Kau, H. I.: 
Cranium, celt, and a piece of lava from 
a lava cave, Hawaii. 36146. 

Holm AN, F. C, Call, Colombia, South 
America: Two specimens of Torrent 
Ducks ( Merganctta coltunhianu) . 36025. 

Holmes, J. H., Dunedin, Fla. : Marine 
shells from Florida (35253, 35566). 

Holmes, W. H., U. S. National Museum. 
(See under Brooks, Louis; Cendoya, 
Julian, and Martine, Dr. Jose. ) 

HoLZiNGER, J. M., Winona, Minn. : Fifty- 
six specimens of mosses (exchange) 
(35377); specimen of Talimnn rugosper- 
w?on(gift) (35973); 5 plants (exchange) 
(36051 ); specimen of moss (exchange) 
(36358). 

Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands; Bishop 
Memorial Museum. Received through 
Dr. W. T. Brigham, director: Land- 
shells from the Hawaiian and other 
islands in the. Pacific Ocean. 35767. 

Hopkins, Rev. A. C, Charlestown, W. 
Va. : Luna moth {Actias hum Lin- 
naeus) . 35368. 

Horan, Joseph, U. S. National Museum: 
Three Remington and Spencer car- 
tridges, said to have been used during 
the Cuban campaign. 35319. 

HoRGAN, E. J., U. S. National Museum: 
Two skins and skull of ^fus decumaniis. 
35854. 
HoRNiMAN ^lusEUM. I See under Lon- 
don, England. ) 
Hough, Mrs. Myrtle Zuck, Washington, 
D. C. : One hundred and seventy- 
four plants from Arizona. Purchase. 
35579. 



LIST OF ACCESSIOISrS. 



95 



H()1(;h, Dr. Walter, U. S. National Mu- 
t^i'uni: A hat worn by a member of 
Riiigo's; artillery company, one of the 
early military organizations of Wash- 
ington, D. V. (35485); land-shells from 
Mexico (:->o!to2). (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution, Bureau of Ethnol- | 
ogy.) 

lIoiTz, Mrs. K. T. (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution, Bureau of Ethnol- 
< >gy. ) 

HowAKD, Dr. L. (). (See under Agri- 
culture, Department of; P^hrhorn, 
E. AL; Fletcher, James; Brodie, Dr. 
William. ) 

Howe, C. F., Bridgetown, Barbados. 
West Indies: Reptiles and batrachians 
(36045); large specimen of Manjak 
from Chalky ^Mountain Mine, Barba- 
dos, received through Mr. P. McDon- 
ough (36113). 

Howell, A. vH., Washington, D. C. : 
Plants from Vermont (35272); plant 
(35661); 2 plants from Duke, Va. 
(3ft569). 

Howell, ¥.. E., Washington, D. C. : 
Specimen of sulphur crystals; specimen 
of fiuorite crystals; 2 specimens of 
agates; sjjecimen of lodestone; models 
of the Great Mogul diamond and a fos- 
sil fish (purcha.«e) (36647); specimen of 
lodestone ( presented to the Smithsonian 
Institution) (36648). 

HiBBAKU, H. (4., and Schwakz, E. A., 
Department of Agriculture. Received 
throughE. A. Schwarz: Threethousand 
sj)ecimens of North American insects. 
35819. (See under E. A. Schwarz.) 

Hudson, Dr. J. W. (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution, Bureau of Ethnol- 
ogy-) 

Hunt, J. Brooks, Hamilton, ilermuda. 
Received through Hon. W. ]\Iaxwell 
Greene: Geological material. 36134. 

Hi'NTER, AViLLLVM, Washington, D. G. : 
Five plants (35575) ; specimen of La-siu- 
nis hon'iilis (35657). 

HiNTER, W. L. (See under Austin, 8. W. ) 

HrsE, T. W., Fort Benton, Mont.: Two 
specimens of Sphinx-moth. 35356. 

Hi TcnENs, J. F. (See under Robert 
Scott. ) 



Hutchinson, Dr. W.T., Winchester, Va. : 
Spotted skunk [Spilogule) (35716); 7 
eggs (one set) of Rallus rirginiamis, 
from Virginia (35719). 

Hutton, F. W. (See under Ghristchurch, 
New Zealand, Ganterbury Museum. ) 

IaERiN<; VON, Dr. H. (See under Sao 
Paulo, Brazil, .Museu Paulista.) 

Ini)L\ MrsEiM. (See umler Calcutta, 
India. ) 

Interior Dei'akt.mkni', riiikd t'^tatts Geo- 
logical Surre;/: Five hundred and ninety 
boxes and crates containing a collection 
of fossil vertebrates and trays trans- 
ferred from New Haven, Conn.; .stone 
implement (35249); igneous and sedi- 
mentary rocks and ores from Little 
Belt Mountains, Montana, ol)tained by- 
Walter H. Weed (35263); fossil fishes 
and fossil leaves, collected by H. W. 
Turner from the Big Smoky formation, 
California (35264); 5 stone implements 
from Umatilla, Oreg., and a pair of 
seal -skin boots from Port Clarence, 
Alaska (35672); 36() specimens of 
Lower Cambrian brachiopods from 
Troy, N. Y. (35734); kaolin from the 
line of the Georgia Railroad near Au- 
gusta, Ga. (35800); coals and clays 
from Pennsylvania (35907); 740 speci- 
mens of Ordovician, Silurian, and De- 
vonian fossils (35935); series of draw- 
ings of fossil vertebrates for comparison 
with the fossils constituting accession 
35249 (35956) ; geological specimens 
from Big Tree (|uadrangle, California, 
collecte.l l)y H. W. Turner (36003); 
geological spetimeus from Cvalde 
quadrangle, Texas, collected by T. 
Way land Vaughan (36030); 28 speci- 
mens of Middle Devonian fossil plants 
from AIapletf)n, Aroostook County, 
-Me., collected by Prof. H. S. Williams 
(360601; .series of Dinosaur bones, col- 
lected in the Black Hills l)y N. H. Dar- 
ton (36114); 750 specimens of rocks, 
collected in the Anthracite and Crested 
Butte quadrangles of Colorado by Whit- 
man Cross (36181) ; series of fo.ssil fishes 
from t lie Jurassic of Colorado (36183); 
received through David White, 5si>eci- 
mens of Paleozoic insects, collected by 
Mr. White (3<)2!0) ; 388 specimens of 
rocks from Silver Cliff, Rosita district. 



96 



REPORT OB" NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Interior Department — Continued. 
Colorado (36274 ) ; 1 1 specimens of min- 
erals principally tellurides from Cala- 
veras County, Cal. (36288); 413 plants 
collected by J. B. Leiberg in Oregon 
(36317) ; 10 specimens of blue horn- 
blende schist from Oregon, collected 
under the direction of J. S. Diller 
( 36456 ) ; gold quartz vein from Swank 
mining district, Kittitas County, 
Wash. (36475), 2 specimens of Cancer 
proavitufi Pack (type) from the Miocene 
green sand of Gayhead, Mass. (36588); 
well-core from a deep drilling at Hub- 
bard City, Tex. (36608); 3 fossils 
plants from Michigan consisting of one 
specimen of Stigmaria verrucosa (Mort) 
Mill, from Owasso, and 2 specimens of 
Neuropteris n. sp., from the Standard 
Mine, near East Saginaw (36589) ; fos- 
sil plants associated with the lavas of 
the Cascade Range; fossil plants of the 
Montana formation; fossil plants of the 
Payette formation; plants from the 
Cascades of Columbia River, made by 

F. H. Knowlton, G. K. Gilbert, and 
others, fossil plants from Esmeralda 
County, Nev., made by H. W. Turner 
( 36534) ; specimen of orbicular amphi- 
bole-gabbro from Yosemite Valley, ob- 
tained by H. W. Turner (36685). (See 
also under Lucas, T. and Socoloff, D. ) 

d'Invilliers, Edward V., Philadelphia, 
Pa. : Specimens of sulphur from Mexico. 
35700. 

Ireland, \V. J., Arapahoe, Nebr. : Speci- 
men of beetle {Harpalus). 35665. 

Ivy, Jesse W., Mount Pleasant, Miss.: 
Beetle, Calosoma scriitatur Fabr. 36549. 

Jackson, Miss Victoria, Bowling Green, 
Ky. : Fresh- water shells from Ken- 
tucky. (35651,35814.) 

Jamaica, Institute of. (See under 
Kingston, Jamaica. ) 

Jascenski, Prof. Leonard V., St. Peters- 
burg, Russia. Received through Mr. 

G. F. Kunz, New York City: Three 
specimens of nephrite from Siberia. 
35554. 

Jennings, Foster H., Washington, D. C. : 
Fourteen Korean hats. Exchange. 
35448. 

Jermey, W. p., St. Louis, Mo. Four 
plants from the Great Bend region of 
the Rio Grande in Texas. 36378. 



Johnson, A. B., Linnaeus, Oreg. Re- 
ceived through A. F. Barrott: Archae- 
ological objects from Oregon. (35999, 
36241.) See under Treasury Depart- 
ment, Light-House Board. ) 

Johnson, C. F., Freeport, 111.: Fifty- 
three plants, principally from Illinois. 
Exchange. 36139. 

Johnson, Prof. C. W., Wagner Free In- 
stitute of Science, Philadelphia, Pa.: 
Collection of fossil corals from the Plio- 
cene of the Caloosahatchie River, 
Florida. Purchase. 35585. 

Johnson, H. W., Habana, Cuba: Speci- 
men of carbonate of lime. 35488. 

Johnson, W. R., Rossland, British Co- 
lumbia: Collection of butterflies and 
moths. 35350. 

Johnston, J. W., Midlothian, Va. : Pupa 
case of a fossorial wasp. 36598. 

Jondez, a., San Jose, Costa Rica, Cen- 
tral America: One hundred plants 
from Costa Rica. Purchase. 35623. 

Jones, C. W. Battersea, S. W., London, 
England: Small clay pipe (36094); 2 
clay pipes (36646). 

Jones, McDuffee, and Stratton Com- 
pany, Boston, Mass. : Twenty-five pot- 
tery plates depicting Americal historical 
scenes. 36697. 

Jones, Marcus E., Salt Lake City, Utah: 
Thirty specimens of violets and speci- 
mens of LImbelliferse (36033); type 
specimen of plant (36381) . Exchange. 

Jordan, R. B., Carrollton, Va. : Bald 
eagle. 36247. 

JuDD, S. D., Department of Agriculture: 
Five specimens of bats ( Vespertilio fus- 
cus), from Georgetown, D. C. 35343. 

Judge, James, Columbus, Ohio: Speci- 
men of Hair seal (Phoca). 35669. 

Judson, Mrs. Isabella Field, Ardsley on 
Hudson, N. Y.: Pennant from the U. S. 
frigate Niagara used during 1857 and 
1858, and also on the steamer Great East- 
ern in 1865 and 1866, while engaged in 
laying telegraph cables across the At- 
lantic Ocean. 35547. 

Juett, J. S., Orlando, Fla. : Crab spider. 
35790. 

KAKUiER, Curtis, Kendallville, Ind. : 
Specimen of Chalchophora campestris 
Say. 36008. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



97 



Katzenberger, G. a., Greenville, Ohio: 
Photograph of a collection of archceo- 
logical objects. 36313. 

Ke.\rney, T. H., Washington, D. C. : 
Twenty plants from Maryland and the 
District of Columbia. 36587. (See un- 
der Agriculture, Department of.) 

Kelsey, F. \V., San Diego, Cal.: Speci- 
mens of Diplodonta in alcohol from 
San Diego (35992); moUusk (36047); 
60 specimen.s of marine shells from Cal- 
ifornia, representing 19 species (36068); 
3 specimens of Myoforceps (36166). 

Kendall, W. C. (.See under Fish Com- 
mission, U. S. ) 

Kennedy, Dr. Harris, Roxbury, Mass.: 
Seventeen specimens of bats {Phyllo- 
nyderis plamfrons). 36321. 

Kepler, Frank, Clifton, Ariz. : Obsidian 
pebbles. 35-170. 

Kesel, Joseph, Sabra, IMont. : Cocoon of 
a Cecropia moth. 36333. 

Kew, London, Royal Botanic Gardens: 
Seven hundred and twenty-three plants 
from the Philippine Islands. Ex- 
change. 35273. 

Kieffer, Prof. J. J., Bitche, Deutsch- 
Lothringer, Germany: Specimens of 
parasitic Hymenoptera from Europe 
and Africa. 36604. 

Kimball, Miss Laura F., National City, 
Cal.: Six specimens of Asplenium ble- 
pkarodes (36149); 15 specimens of ferns 
(36204). Exchange. 

Kincaid, T., University of Washington, 
Seattle, Wash. : Seventeen specimens 
of crustaceans. 36594. 

Kingsbury, George, care Gerrit S. Miller, 
V. S. National Museum: Batfish ( Cephu- 
lacanthus volitans) , from St. Kitts, West 
Indies. 35294. 

Kingston, Ja.maica, Institute of Jamaica. 
Received through J. E. Duerden: Eight 
specimens (jf crustaceans representing 4 
species. 35447. 

KiRKLANi), Dr. R. J., Grand Rapids, 
Mich. : Ten specimens of IHsidium rne- 
dinnum Sterki, and 6 specimens of P'lsid- 
huii kirklandi Sterki, from type lots 
collected in Michigan. 36066. 

K. K. BoHMiscHE Karl-Ferdinand Uni- 
versitiit. (See under Prague, Bohemia. ) 

K. K. Naturhistorischen Hofmuseum. 
(See under Vienna, Austria.) 

NAT MUS ItiOO 7 



Klein, E., Mace, Ind.: Volcanic dust 
(35595); nest of a hornet [Vespa) 
35732. 

Knight, Prof. W. C, University of Wyo- 
ming, Laramie, Wyo. : Forty specimens 
of fossil leaves from Rock Creek, near 
Harpers Station, Union Pacific Rail- 
road, Albany County, Wyo. (35905); 
specimen of Mlcrotus mordax (36283). 

Knowles, F. E., San Francisco, Cal.: 
Granite from Raymond Quarries, Ma- 
dera County, Cal. 35335. 

Knowles, W. A., U.S. National Museum: 
Four specimens of dragonfiies from 
Havre de Grace, Md. 35827. 

Knowlton, .F. H., U. S. Geological Sur- 
vey: Fifteen plants (35849); Star-nosed 
mole {Condylura cristata), from Laurel, 
Md. (36486). (See also under Gresley, 
W. S. ; Interior Department, U. S. 
Geological Survey.) 

KoENiG, Dr. Adolph, Pittsburg, Pa. : 
Twenty-seven plants from Pennsylvania 
(gift) (36177); 80 plants (exchange) 
(36624) 8 photographs of violets (gift) 
(36690); 50 specimens of violets (gift) 
(36705). 

KoFOiD, Dr. C. A., Urbana, 111.: Type 
specimens of Platydorina caudata, a new 
genus and species of ^'^ol vocidee. 36026. 

Krantz, F., Bonn, Germany: Specimen 
of Bischtube meteorite. Exchange. 
36494. 

Kreite, R., Kansas City, Mo.: Twenty- 
five specimens of Upper coal measure 
fossils from Kansas City. Exchange. 
35652. 

Kkueger, p. W., Cleveland, Ohio: Seven 
specimens of insects. 36088. 

KuNZ, G. F., New York City: Nephrite 
from Russia, China, and Silesia. Ex- 
change. 35786. (See under Jascenski, 
Prof. Leonard V.) 

Lacoe, R. D., Pittston, Pa.: Twenty-two 
specimens of Upper Carboniferous fos- 
sils (36231); 47 specimens of Naiadltes 
estheria, from the Upper Carboniferous 
of Pennsylvania (36462). 

Ladbury, Miss Emm^, Gallatin, N. Dak. : 
Moth {Attacus cecropia). 36671. 

Lambert, W. M., Tampa, Fla. Received 
through H. S. Ray: Portions of the 
carapace of a large tortoise. 35689. 



98 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Lamson-Scribnek, Prof. F. (See under 
Agriculture, Department of. ) 

L.VNGLEY, Hon. S. P., Smithsonian Insti- 
tution: INIodel of a wave-propelled boat 
invented Ijy Mr. Herm. Linden, Naples, 
Italy. Deposit. 36282. 

Latto, a. p., Southampton, N. Y. : Speci- 
men of Bonito {Sarda sarda). 35691. 

Lauer, R. C, Milwaukee, Wis. : Small 
porcelain doll with an oyster attached, 
found on the beach at Bedloe Island, 
New York. 36222. 

Leasure, W. a., Ludlow, via Bagdad, 
Cal.: Solphugid {Datamen formidabilis 
Simon). 36657. 

Lee, Mrs. P]lizabeth Lloyd, Alexandria, 
Va. Receive.1 through Charles Schafer: 
Lock of hair sa^d to have been taken 
from the head of George AVashington. 
36022. 

Leiberg, J. B., Athol, Idaho: Seeds of a 
new Umbellifer from Crater Lake, Ore- 
gon. 35788. (See under Interior De- 
partment, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 

Lejeune, Dr. Adolf, Galveston, Tex.: 
Ninety-five specimens of Devonian fos- 
sils representing 35 species; 65 speci- 
mens of Cretaceous fossils (19 species), 
and 70 specimens of Tertiary fossils (32 
species), from Europe. Exchange. 
35965. 

Leland Stanford Junior University, 
Stanford University, Cal. Received 
through Prof. C. H. Gilbert: Skeleton 
of Harris' Cormorant (exchange) 
(36069 ) ; land-shells from Cocos and the 
Galapagos islands (gift) (36158); Jap- 
anese fishes, including types of 14 spe- 
cies obtained principally by K. Otaki 
(36692). 

LEVERiNCi, T. J., Lafayette, Ind.: Proof 
from steel plate entitled "Abolishing 
Slavery," engraved by Walter Shirlaw. 
35752.' 

Lewis, Corp. George C, U. S. A., Fort 
Myer, Va.: Skin and skull of bat 
{Laiiiarati horcalh) (35392); collection 
of mammals, insects, and reptiles from 
the Philippine Islands (35896). 

Lewis, J. B., Petaluma, Cal.: Eleven 
ceremonial objects of stone and 2 speci- 
mens of chalcedony geode in lava. 
Exchange. 36561. 



Limbach & Welch, Victor, Colo.: Ten 
crystals of calaverite. Purchase. 35504. 

LiNTHicuM, Dr. T. W., Savage, Md. 
Received through J. D. McGuire: Two 
flaked spear-points found on a farm 
near the Patuxent River. 36498. 

LisTox, H. F., U. S. Indian service, 
Covelo, Cal. : Pitt River Indian basket 
(Po-num-chaw). 36336. 

Locker, H. C, Lafayette, Ky.: Fungus 
growth from the bladder of a hog. 
35942. 

London, England, British Muselt.m. 
Received through Sir George Hamp- 
son: Collectif)n of Hymenoptera includ- 
ing about 1,000 specimens from St. 
Vincent and Granada (35715). Re- 
ceived through Mr. Oldfield Thomas: 
Two topotypes of Nectomys garleppii 
(35843) ; 2 squirrels, Sciurufi, specimens 
of Mus messorius, a cricetine rodent 
belonging to the genus Rhipidomys, and 
a hedgehog (35844). Received through 
F. A. Bather: twentj^-three wax and 
paraffin casts of British fossil starfishes 
(36294). 

London (Forest Hill) , England, Hor- 
niman Museum. Received througn 
Richard Quick, curator: Two old-style 
pig-scrapers made of bullock's hoofs 
with a piece of iron for a scraper, from 
St. Neot's, Hunts. Exchange. 35279. 

LoRENz, Master R. M., Piscataway, Md. : 
Nest of Vespa maculaia Fabr. 36057. 

Loring, J. Alden, New York City. Eight 
mammal t-kins and skulls. Exchange. 
36327. 

Lounsbury, C. p.. Natal, South Africa: 
Vial containing alcoholic larva {Lophos- 
tethus). 36214. 

Lovett, Edward, C!roydon, England: 
Collection of amulets in Bohemian 
glass representing teeth of animals, etc. 
Exchange. 36162. 

Lowe, H. N., Long Beach, Cal.: Crus- 
taceans, jellyfishes, etc. Exchange. 
35378. 

Lowe, Prof. V. IL, Geneva, N. Y. : 
Eleven specimens of chalcids. 35568. 

Lucas, T., Passaic, N. J.: Received 
through Interior Department, U. S. 
Geological Survey: Four fossils and a 
photograph of the locality where they 
were found. 35381. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



99 



Ludlow, S., & Co., Spring Lake, N. J.: 
Specimen of Leather-jacket, OUgoplitcs 
oceidentalix. 35391. 

LrtiK.N'BEEL, W. G., U. S. National Mu- 
8eum: Specimens of Mus mum-nlms. 
(35604, 36441.) 

LiTHER, Dr. R. M., Sonth Orange, N. J.: 
Two Burmetie dabs, 2 Zulu spear? with 
native handles, and 2 Naga spears. 
35729. 

Lyox, M. W., jr., U. S. National Museum: 
Specimen of Cassis (35445) ; 3 skins and 
skulls of Mus musculas (35612); 4 fox 
squirrels {Sciurus niger) (purchase) 
(36325). 

McAllister, J. T., Hot Springs, Va. : 
Tooth of a mastodon. 36407. 

McClatchie, Prof. A. J., Phoenix, Ariz.: 
Specimen of Aspleniam respertinum 
klaxon, from California. 36538. 

McClure, S. S., New York, N. Y.: Col- 
ored sketch of Mammoth restored. 
35985. 

MacClure, William. (See under L. V. 
Pirsson. ) 

MacCormick, R. C. (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution, Bureau of Eth- 
nology. ) 

McCoRMicK, L. M., Glen Island Museum, 
New Rochelle, N. Y. : Small collection 
of bats from the Philippine Islands. 
(36001); bats and a crab from Porto 
Rico, West Indies (36663). 

McDoxoiGH, P., Bridgetown, Barbados, 
West Indies: Bats from the vicinity of 
Bridgetown (purchase) (35998); rep- 
tiles and batracliians (gift) (36045). 
(See under C. F. Howe.) 

McGee, Dr. Anita Newcomb, Washington, 
D. C. Received through Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology: Sun- 
<lried brick from a shell mound near 
Hampton, Va. 35548. 

McliEE, W J, Bureau of Ethnology, 
Washington, D. C. : oNIusquaki loom. 
Excliange. 36385. 

Mc<jiNNis, W. H., Youngstown, Ohio: 
Thirteen specimens ><( selenite crystals. 
35834. 

McGowAN, Mrs. E. P., Washington, D. C. 
Received through Department of Agri- 
culture: Plant from California. 36582. 
( See under Agriculture, Department of. ) 



McGregor, R. C, Palo Alto, Cal.: Ten 
birds' skins from California (deposit) 
(35490) ; 2birds' skins( Tringa minuiiUa) 
(gift) (35605); 75 l)irds' skins from 
California (exchange) (35869); crusta- 
ceans and mollusks from the Hawaiian 
Islands (gift) (36562). 

McGrew, Morris, Plain ville, Ohio: Fine 
siliceous mud fro,m Florida. 35590. 

McGuire, J. D. (See under Linthicum, 
Dr. T. W. ) 

McIntosh, AV., St. John's, New Bruns- 
wick, Canada: Six specimens of Lepi- 
doptera. 36419. 

McIxTYRE, Frank, Bohemia, Oreg. ; 
Crystals from Oregon (35993); speci- 
mens of cerussite, from Musick Mine, 
Bohemia Peak, Calipooha Range. 
(36173) ; specimens of cerussite (36221. ) 

McKiNNEY, :\I. B., Estatoe, N. C: Soap- 
stone carving from Mitchell County. 
35947. 

MacMillan, Prof. Conway, University 
of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.: 
Ninety-six specimens of xiolets. Ex- 
change. 36085. 

McMillan, P. A., Banyan, Fla. : Water- 
bug, Belostoma uhlei-i ^lontandon. 
35797. 

McNally, JNIa.jor V. (See under War 
Department. ) 

McNuLTY, Dr. L. , Laurel, Md. : Skin 
and skull of a fox. Exchange. 36339. 

Maca LESTER, C, Wytheville, Va. : 
Mounted albino Summer Duck {Aix 
sponsa), from New Jersey. 35872. 

Macoun, Prof. John, Geological Survey, 
Ottawa, Canada: Six hundred and 
forty-one specimens of mosses from 
St. Paul Island, Bering Sea (purchase) 
(36029); 586 plants (purchase) (36356); 
100 specimens of violets from Canada 
(exchange) (36515). 

Madsen, Serg. O. J., U. S. A., Puerto 
Principe, Cuba: Sphinx-moth. 35954. 

Magretti, Dr. Paola, Milan, Italy: Four 
hundred and ninety-four specimens of 
Hymenoptera. Exchange. 36372. 

Mahler, INIiss A. L., Chelan, Wa.sh. : 
Cricket {Stenopehnatus tulpa Burm.). 
35718. 

Maier, Jacob, Philadelphia, Pa. : Homop- 
terous insect ( Trldiuoiid nmpelopsidU 
Harris). 35246. 



100 



REPOKT OF l^fATIONAL MUSEUM, 19U0. 



Manning, Mrs. E. G., Washington, D. C. : 
Crab-spider, Acrosorna spinca Hentz. 
35472. 

Makbuky, Miss E. M., U. S. National 
Museum: Two music boxes of French 
manufacture. 36046. 

Markley, E. M., Baiubridge, Pa.: 
Grooved axe. 36654. 

Markley, R. C, Hatboro, Pa.: Beetle 
and larvf^. 36699. 

Marshall, Ernest. (See under George 
Marshall, Henry Marshall, and Henry 
Marshall, jr.) 

Marshall, Georcie, U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Skull of a Red Fox, Vulpea fulms; 
skin and skull of a common mole, 
Scalops (Kjuaticui^, and skin and skull of 
a Shrew mole, Blarina brcvicauda 
(35919); '■-> snakes from Maryland 
(36205); 4 Ijats {LaHiurus borealis) 
(36324); skull of Red Fox Vulpesfulvus 
(36341); Short-Tailed Shrew Blarina 
brevicaiula (36466; leeches and cray- 
fishes collected in Laurel by Henry 
and Ernest Marshall (36497). (See 
under Ernest and Henry Marshall. ) 

Marshall, Henry, U. S. National Muse- 
um: Gray squirrel, Sciuru>i carolinensis, 
from Laurel, Md. 36417. 

Marshall, Henry and Ernest, Laurel, 
Md.: Three bull-frogs (35506); Red 
squirrel, Sciurus hudsonicus loquax 
(36485); fishes, including Lepomis au- 
riiiin; Lepomis gihhosua; Micropterus sal- 
vioides; Aplircdoderus saifajujK, and No- 
tropis megalojis (35289); 2 flying squir- 
rels {Sduropterus volucella) and a bat 
(Vespertiliofusciis) (35366"); mole, /9ca- 
lops aquaticus, from Laurel (36454). 

Marshall, Henry, jr. , and Ernest, Lau- 
rel, Md. Received througli George 
Marshall: (Collection of fishes from Pa- 
tuxcnt River. 36360. 

Marshall, J. RusJi. (See under Settle, 
Dr. Thomas L.) 

Martin, Charles, Atlanta, (ia. : Speci- 
men of Wheel-bug, rrionidvx rrixtatas, 
Linn^. 35346. 

Martin, D. S., Presbyterian College iov 
Women, Columbia, S. C. : Fragments 
of pottery. 36606. 

Martine, Dr. Louls, Santiago, Cuba: An- 
cient Arawak bowl from Santo Do- 
mingo, collected by Mr. W. H. Holmes. 
36683. 



Marx, Mrs. M. D., Washington, D. ('.: 
Collection of Arachnida and Acarina 
belonging to the late Dr. George Marx. 
Purchase. 35293. 

Maryland Geolo<4ical Survey, Balti- 
more, Md. Received through Prof. 
William B. Clark: Five specimens of 
Terchratida hurkuii, from the Eocene of 
Maryland. 36140. 

Mason, Prof. O. T., U. S. National Muse- 
um: Baskets of the Abenaki Indians, 
collected by Professor Mason. 35583. 

Mason, V. L., War Department, Wash- 
ington, D. C. : Stirrups used by General 
Torral, commanding the Spanish troops 
at Santiago. 35357. 

Mason, W. M., Washington, D. C: Hair- 
comb worn by native women of the 
Philippine Islands. 36092. 

Massachusetts Commission, New Orleans 

- Exposition, New Orleans, La. : Collec- 
tion of (lay Head Indian pottery un- 
baked. 35486. 

Matthews, J. T., Armour, S. Dak.: Up- 
per and lower tooth of an elk. 36316. 

Maxon, Mrs. S. A., Oneida, N.Y.: Plants 
and fruits (gift and exchange) (35307, 
35390, 35412, 35531) ; 100 specimens of 
violets (exchange) (36563). 

Maxon, W. R., U. S. National Museum: 
Two hundred plants from West ^'^ir- 
ginia and Virginia (35580); 9 birds' 
skins from New York (35591) (ex- 
change); 120 plants from New York 
and the District of Columbia (.35643) ; 
collection of Odonata, from the District 
of Columbia and vicinity (35822) ; 44 
specimens of Odonata, from Lowell, 
West Virginia, and Mountain Lake, 
Virginia (35824); 55 specimens of 
mosses from Washington State, col- 
lected by J. B. Flett (35887); 400 
plants from the vicinity of the District 
of Columbia (36015); 21 plants from 
Washington, D. C. (36118); 30 plants 
from Maryland (36119); 60 specimens 
of Viola tenella, from Maryland (36402) ; 
50 specimens of Viola cundnta, from 
the District of Columbia (36403); 45 
'specimens of Viola mgiU(da (36447); 
snake from the District of Columbia 
(36460); 2 birds (36521); 30 plants 
from Virginia (36571); 20 plants from 
Maryland and the District of Columbia 
(36587); 35 specimens of Odonata, etc. 
136662). 



LIST OF AOCESSTONS. 



101 



Maiu'k, C. H., Memphis, Teiiii. : ('nuiiuni 
found near West ]Momphis. o()H52. 

]\rAYKR, Sergt. Maj. Casfku, Fort Meade, 
S. Dak.: Larva of a golden-eye<l insect 
{('hrysopa). 35482. 

Mead, C. H., Ponce, P. E. : Fossils from 
the southern side of Porto Kico. 36503. 

]\Iead, Eugene. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology.) 

Mearxh, Dr. E. A., U. S. A., Fort Adams, 
Newport, R. I. : Collection of mammal 
skins and skulls, skeleton of a dolphin, 
lish-bones, bird's head, crabs, sponges, 
and birds' skins (gift) (30089); speci- 
mens of rocks showing weathering 
(purchase) (36508); collection of mam- 
mals, crabs, dry fish and fish-bones 
and a porpoise skeleton (gift) (36645). 
(See under Ash, C. E. ) 

Mearns, Master Louis di Zerega, New- 
port, R. I.: Two mammal skins and 
4 birds' skins. Deposit. 36091. 

Meehan, J. v., U. S. National Museum: 
Copy of the New York Herald of April 
15, 1865, containing an illustrate<l notice 
of the death of President Lincoln. 
36238. 

Melnikof, M., Musee d' Institut des 
Mines, St. Petersburg, Russia: Si)eci- 
mens of meteorites (Indarka and Au- 
gustiuowka). Exchange. 36296. 

Melville, J. C, Prestwick, West Man- 
chester, England: Two abyssal sliells. 
35584. 

Melville, W. P., Sault Ste. Marie, Mich.: 
Reptiles, insects, a mammal, and a bird 
from Angola, West Africa. 35784. 

Merri.v.m, Dr. C. H. (See imder Harri- 
man, E. H.) 

Merriam, J. C, University of California, 
Berkeley, Cal.: Two specimens of 
Trochocyathns californinnuH Vaughan 
(35805) ; 12 specimens of fossil cf)rals 
from California (36632) . 

Merrihew, Mrs. E. L., Long Beach, Cal.: 
Shells. 35697. 

Merrill, Dr. George P., U. S. National 
Museum: Slate and associated rocks 
from Brownville, Me. (35341); geo- 
logical material from Maine, New 
Hampshire, and Vermont (35342); 
fresh-water mollusks from Penobscot 
County, Me. (35428) ; slates from Gran- 
ville, Washington County, N. Y. 
(35510); meteoric stone from Duruma, 



Merrill, Dr. <teorge P. — Continued. 
East Africa (35815); minerals and asso- 
ciations from Mitchell County, N. C. 
(35880); skin of a lynx from Mitchell 
County, N. C. (35918); fresh and 
weathered rocks from Chatham, Va. 
(35983); specimen of turquoise from 
New Mexico (purchase) (36006); 10 
photographs of quarries fossil verte- 
brates from Freezeout Hills, Wyoming 
(purchase ) ( 36007 ) ; fragments of Vera- 
min meteorite (36028). 

Merrill, L. B., Paris, Me.: Geological 
material. Purchase. 35558. 

Metz & Schloerb, Oshkosh, Wis. Re- 
ceived through C. A. Woodruff: Two 
pairs of snowshoes and two pairs of 
moccasins. 36275. 

Mexico, Mexico, National Museum. 
Received through Dr. Manuel Urbina, 
director: Type specimen of Cornus ur- 
hmai, from Mexico. Exchange. 36540. 

Miguel, Jean, Barrubio, Herault, France: 
Collection of Cretaceous and Tertiary 
fossils, vertebrate fossils, and 36 prehis- 
toric implements. Exchange. 36097. 

Milan, Italy, Museum of Natural His- 
tory. Received through Dr. C. Bel- 
lotti : Collection of fishes from the Red 
Sea and Italy. Exchange. 36396. 

Miller, B. D., Peterboro, N. Y. : Two 
shrews. 36267. 

Miller, Mrs. E. P., Atlantic City, N. J.: 
Si^ecimen of Hijipa and one of Libinia 
(36346) ; fiddler-crabs and Hippas from 
Atlantic City (36492). 

Miller, F. J. X., Washington, D. C. Re- 
ceived through Department of Agricul- 
ture: Plant. .35675. 

Miller, Gerrit S., Jr., U. S. National 
Museum : Specimen ( topotype) of Lepns 
haclunani uhrricolor (35317); tree-frog 
from New York (.35320) ; type sjaecinien 
of Hyla eclttala, from Four Mile Run, 
Virginia(35436) ; mammals from Prince 
George County, Md. (35748); snake 
from Maryland (35780) ; bat, Pipistrellus 
suhflavus, from Forest Glen, Md. 
(35928); frog {Hyla versicolor), from 
Massachusetts (35994) ; Fox Sparrow, 
Pusserella iliaca (36265); collection of 
fishes made in the tributaries of Red 
Creek (36359); parasitic fungus from 
Virginia (.36544). 



102 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSETTM, 1900. 



Miller, Dr. M. (i., riiiladelphia, Pa.: 
Lizard-fisli, SyiiodiDt /(vtcnn, from Pine 
Island Sound, Florida. 36412. 

MiLLiGAN, Dr. John D., U. S. Fish Com- 
mission: Skin of a Merganser. 35903. 

MiLNER, A. N., Webb City, Mo. : Crystals 
of sphalerite and marcasite on chert. 
36433. 

Minnesota, University of, Minneapolis, 
Minn. : Fifty-seven plants from various 
localities. Exchange. 36357. 

Minor, Lucian, Galveston, Tex.: Speci- 
men of fulgurite found in the white 
sand hills in Ward County, N. Dak. 
35498. 

Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, 
Mo.: One hundred and seventy-five 
specimens of violets collected by J. B. 
S. Norton (35577); specimen of Viola 
vitn-um (36519). Exchange. 

Mitchell, Hon. J. D., Victoria, Tex.: 
Deformed carapace and claw of a crab 
{Callinedes sapidus) (35749); 4 speci- 
mens of Dentalium MsjKmle from Texas 
(35779). 

Mock, M. G., Muncie, Ind. : Sixteen spear- 
heads, stone hatchets, drilled tablets, 
etc. , from near Muncie. 35551. 

MoE, Rev. P., Coon Valley, Wis.: Two 
fossil teeth of mammals. 35653. 

MooNEY, James. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology.) 

Moore, Clarence B., Philadelphia, Pa., 
and Pine Key, Fla. : Four shell ham- 
mers (36163); shell hatchet found on 
the surface of Mound Island, or John- 
sons Key, Estew Bay, Lee County, Fla. 
(36250); shell implement from Good- 
land Point, Marco Island, Lee County, 
Fla. (36320) ; 27 perforated shell imple- 
ments from the Ten Thousand Islands 
(in the southeastern coast of Florida 
(36590). 

Morris, E. L., Washington, D. C: Six 
plants. Exchange. 35678. 

Moses, AV. H. (See under Admiral Dewey 
Reception Committee.) 

MorrER, Dr. Murray' Galt, Washington, 
D. C. : Insects from Mountain Lake, 
Maryland. 35567. 

MtJNCH, Prof. Herman, San Cristobal, 
Mexico: Two species of ferns from San 
Cristobal (35384); fern from Mexico 
(35753). 



Murphy, lU'v. .1. W., Washington, D. C. : 
Nest of Yellow-throated Vireo ( Virro 
Jiarifrons) . 35471. 

Musee d'Histoire Naturelle (Labora- 
toire d'Entomologie), Paris, France. 
(See under Paris, France.) 

MusEo Civico Di Storia Nati-kale. (See 
under" Milan, Italy.) 

Museo Nacional. (See under San Jose, 
Costa, Rica.) 

Museu Paulista. (See under Sao Paulo, 
Brazil.) 

Museum ues Konigreichs Bohmen. (See 
under Prague, Bohemia. ) 

Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cam- 
bridge, Mass. Received through Dr. 
Walter Faxon: Six specimen of crabs 
representing 3 species. Exchange. 
35906. 

MussER, F. P., Millheim, Pa.: Crab- 
spider {Gasteracantha cancer Hentz). 
35426. 

Myer, S. N., Washington, D. C. : Peace 
Jubilee medal struck in Washington, 
D. C, May 23, 1899 (35864); forah 
pointer or " yad" made of olive wood 
(35881) ; bronze medal conferred by the 
city of Brooklyn on her citizen soldiers 
who participated in the war with Spain; 
l)adge of white metal of Company B, 
Thirteenth Infantry, Fifth Army Corps, 
who participated in the Spanish-Amer- 
ican war (35960) ; plaque given to par- 
ticipants in the war with Spain, belong- 
ing to members of the First Brigade, 
Pennsylvania Volunteers (36000). 

Mytinger, C, Navy Department, Wash- 
ington, D. C. : Minerals, botanical spec- 
imens, fossil plants, fossils, tooth of a 
shark, and a sturgeon plate. 36609. 

Narbel, Paul, Cour, Lausanne, Switzer- 
land: Four skulls of mammals. Pur- 
chase. 36031. 

Natal Botanic Garden. (See imder 
Berea, Durban, Natal, Africa.) 

National Museum of Mexico. (See 
under Mexico, Mexico. ) 

Navy Department, Washington, D. C, 
Hon. John D. I^ong, Secretary. Re- 
ceived from the Norfolk Navy-Yard, 
Norfolk, Va. : Collection of relics of the 
Spanish- American war (35459); col- 
lection of Spanish-American relics and 
a lens from a porthole of the U. S. S. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



103 



Navy Depaktment — Continued. 

Cumberland in use during the civil 
war, 1861-1865 (35460); four 24-inch 
search li^htn and mounts captured from 
the Spanish fleet at Manila (35509); 
ribbons used with the floral decora- 
tions of the graves of the Maine dead 
in Habana, February, 1899 (35968). 
Deposit. 

Nebraska, I'xiversity of, Lincoln, 
Nebr. : Six specimens of invertebrate 
fossils from the Upper Cretaceous 
(Dakota formation), near Glasco, 
Kans., and Jackson, Nebr. 36266. 

Nelsox, Avex, Laramie, Wyo. : Two 
hundred and eighty plants (exchange) 
(35515) ; 87 plants from the western 
section of the United States (exchange) 
(35874); 40 specimens of violets (ex- 
change) (36034); 840 plants from the 
Yellowstone National Park (purchase) 
(.3^520). (See imder Agriculture, De- 
partment of. ) 

Nelsox, E. W. (See under Agriculture, 
Department of; Brown, Mrs. N. M. ) 

Neve, Miss A. M., Tampa, Fla. : Larva 
of a beetle {Coptocycla aurichalcea 
Fabr.). 35705. 

Newcomb, W., Tenafly, N. J.: Specimen 
of butterfly mosaic work. 36363. 

Newcombe, Dr. C. F., Victoria, British 
Columbia: Starfish [pteraster) . 36386. 

Newmax, Ilev. S. ^L, Washington, D. C. : 
Two spe<rimens of Dryoj^feris from New 
York. 36463. 

New Mexico Agricultural Experimext 
St.\tiox, Mesilla Park, N. Mex. Re- 
ceived through Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell: 
Collection of insects (35242); blind 
snake {Leptotijphlops dulcis) (35257) ; 
topotypeof Ereuiopedes scudderi,\ariety 
liicolor Cockerell (35446) ; 2 plants from 
Arizona and New 3Iexico (36013) ; spec- 
imen of Eulanijpus borealis Coquillett 
(36121) ; 7 specimens of bees (36176); 6 
specimens of Diptera (36198); 11 plants 
principally from New Mexico (ex- 
change) (36398); land isopods from 
New Mexico and Arizona (36208); 22 
specimens of Hymenoptera, inclu<ling 
several type specimens; 3 plants and 5 
species of land shells (36312); 35 speci- 
mens of insects containing types and 
cotypes (36523); 23 plants from New 
Mexico (exchange) (36541); insects, 



New Mexico Agricultural Experiment 
Station — Continued . 
including Colcoptera, Diptera, Hyme- 
noptera, etc. (36602). 

New York Aquarium, New York City: 
Specimens of Angelkhthys cUiaris and 
Trunk-fish, Lectophrys triqueter, from 
Bermuda, 35588. 

New York Botanical Garden, New York 
City. Received through Dr. N. L. Brit- 
ton: One thousand and seventy-one 
plants from Montana. Exchange. 
36150. 

Nickel, C. L., Cleveland, Ohio: Fossil 
plants and a concretion. 36691. 

Nims, Charles S. (See under United 
States Marble Company. ) 

Nixox, S. D., Baltimore, Md.: Three eggs 
of Chipping Sparrow, Splzella socialis, 
with abnormal coloration (36530) ; nest 
of Chipping Sparrow (36449). 

Noble, S. W., Wilmington, N. C. Re- 
ceived through Department of Agricul- 
ture: Two plants representing the spe- 
cies tStuartia malacliodendron L. 36565. 

Norfolk Navy- Yard. (See under Navy 
Department. ) 

NoRTHRUP, Mrs. A. R., Yonkers, N. Y. : 
Specimen of Cassia from the Bahamas 
(36116); plant from the Bahamas 
(36223). 

NoRTHRUP, C. H., San Jose, Cal. : Speci- 
men of Yivipara shell from California 
(35625); 3 specimens of Japanese Vivi- 
para from San Jose (36249). 

NoRTOx, Dr. C. A. Q., Hartford, Conn.: 
Eight lamps. Exchange. 36182. 

Norton, J. B. S. (See under Missouri 
Botanical Garden. ) 

NoTMAN, George. (See under Copper 
Queen Consolidated Mining Company. ) 

NowLAN, Mrs. O. F., Janesville, Wis.: 
Specimens of minerals. Exchange. 
36190. 

NoYES, Miss C. E., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Proclamation issued from Head- 
quarters Department of the Pacific, 
August 4, 1899; proclamation, military 
governor, Philippine Islands, Manila, 
January 4, 1899; proclamation, Philip- 
pine Commission, April 4, 1899. 
35726. 

Nye, Willard, jr.. New Bedford, Mass.: 
Indian skull exhumed from the west- 
ern bank of Acushnet River, New 



104 



EEPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSKUM, 1900. 



NvE, WiLLAED, jr. — Continued. 
Bedford (36272) ; 2 balls of bristles from 
the stomach of an alligator (36351). 

O'^NEiLL, Mrs. S. C, Day, Mo.: Larva of 
a Lampyrid {Pltcngodes). 35495. 

0.\KMAN, Miss, Edenton, N. C. Received 
through Department of Agriculture: 
Three specimens of violets from North 
Carolina. 36330. 

Odell, W. S., Ottawa, Canada: Two 
salamanders {Spelerpes bilineatus). 
35990. 

Oglesby, W. J., Krebs, Ind. : Cases of 
common caseworms ( Thyridopteryx 
ephemeneformis) . 35311. 

Ohlen, Emancel. (See under Smith- 
sonian Institution, Socicte de Numis- 
matique et d'Archeologie de Mon- 
treal. ) 

Oldroyd, Mrs. T. S., Los Angeles, Cal. : 
Marine shells from San Pedro, Cal. 
35924. 

Olds, H. W., Department of Agriculture. 
Received through the Department: 
Thirty plants (35659); specimen of 
Nitromyces hdescens (35889); 5 plants 
from Maryland (36117). 

OoHNER, Teodor, Zoological Institute, 
University, Upsala, Sweden: Four 
specimens of helminths. 35858. 

OsBORN, Prof. H. F., American Museum 
of Natural History, New York City: 
Two restorations of extinct reptiles 
( Ayuthanmas and Nunosaurus ) . 36207. 

Osborne and Marsellis Company, Up- 
per Montclair, N. J. : Trap rock used 
for macadam and street paving. 
36043. 

OsTERHouT, G. E., New Windsor, Colo.: 
Forty specimens of violets (exchange) 
(33312); 56 plants (exchange) (35389); 
plant (gift) (36353). 

Otaki, K. (See under Leland Stanford 
Junior University. ) 

Otis, Isaac. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology.) 

Owen, Mrs. Narcissa, Washington, D. 
C. : Relics of Gen. George Washington. 
36137. 

Palestine Exploration Fund, Cam- 
bridge, Mass. Received through Rev. 
T. F. Wright: Cast of Lachish tablet; 
cast of seal of Haggai; cast of Wright 
bead; cast of Chaplin weight. Pur- 
chase. 35833. 



Palmer, Edward, Washington, D. C. : 
Two hundred and fifteen plants from 
Kentucky (35255); 112 plants (35569); 
225 plants from Durango and Saltillo, 
INIexico (purchase) (36459) ; 40 photo- 
graphs of plants, etc. (36584). 

Palmer, Grover, Barrow, Suffolk, Eng- 
land : Collection of British Lepidoptera. 
35727. 

Palmer, H. D., Olivet, Pa. : Beetle {Alaus 
oculatus L. ) 36529. 

Palmer, William, U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Specimen of Queen snake, Nat- 
rix lebcris, from Great Falls, Md. 
(35260); type specimen of Dryopteris 
goldieana celsa (35476); 65 plants 
(35658); Garter snake from Virginia 
(35882) ; Virginia deer, OdocoUeus ameri- 
canus (35920); muskrat (Fiber zibethi- 
cus), from Little River, Va. (35939); 
35 birds' skins and 3 birds' eggs (36264, 
36302) ; collection of insects and 48 
birds' skins from Cuba (36415); rep- 
tiles and batrachians (36457); natural 
history specimens and geological mate- 
rial from western Cul:)a ( 36484) ; 5 speci- 
mens of fossil corals from Cuba (36491 ) ; 
35 specimens of Odonata (36662 ) ; large 
collections of plants from Cuba (36253, 
36254, 36271, 36289, 36297, 36298, .36318 
36319, 36329, 36337, 36382, 36424, 36487, 
36573, 36641 , 36660, 36701) . 

Paris, France, Musee D'IIistoire Natu- 
relle (Laboratoired'Etomologie): Six 
vials containing insects. Exchange. 
35971. 

Parish, S. B., San Bernardino, Cal.: Six 
plants from California and Arizona. 
36225. 

Parke, G. H., Williainsport, Pa.: Speci- 
men of Carabid beetle, Calosoma sa^i- 
tator Fabr. 36552. 

Parker, A. T., Jersey Shore, Pa.: Speci- 
men of Epeira domiciliana Hentz. 
35673. 

Parker, C. Le Roy. ( See under Phelps, 
Dr. Albert.) 

Parlin, J. C. (no address given) : Plant 
from Maine. 36081. 

Parmelee, H. p., Charlevoix, Mich.: 
Type specimen of Peden parmeleli Dall, 
from the Pliocene of California. 36076. 

Parritt, II. W., London, England: Echi- 
noderms, crustaceans and 2 specimens 
of fishes. Exchange. 35695. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



105 



Parsoxs, Dr. W. B., Missoula, Mont.: 
Specimen of fungus (Mi/ceUum) from 
Montana. 36191. 

Patcanof, S. (See under Smithsonian 
Institution. ) 

Patten, Col. W. S., U. S. A. (See under 
War Department, Quartermaster-Gen- 
eral's Otlice.) 

Paxton, Rev. J. W., Danville, Va.: Two 
pieces of Chinese money. 36246. 

Payne, E. J., Olympia, Wash. : Volcanic 
dust from near Mount Ranier, Thurston 
County, Wash. (35396); specimen of 
copper ore from Washington (35685); 
specimenofgold-bearingquartz(3o761); 
2 specimens of marble from Alaska 
(36384). 

Peabody Museum, New Haven, Conn. 
Received through Dr. C. E. Beecher: 
Specimen of Iceland spar. Exchange. 
35555. 

Pearse, A. S., Lincoln, Nebr. : Batra- 
chians and a hair worm from Montana. 
36667. 

Peck, Prof. C. H., Albany, N. Y.: Speci- 
men of Mola commiDiis. 35900. 

Petersen, H. P., Washington, D. C. : 
Forty-six Mexican opals and an onyx 
paper knife. 36277. 

Peterson, D., Lima, Mont.: Two speci- 
mens of impure graphite and a specimen 
of clay colored by graphite. 35987. 

Phelps, Dr. Albert, Glens Falls, N. Y. 
Received through C. Le Roy Parker: 
Tooth of a fossil shark with perfora- 
tions. 36133. 

Phelps, G. B., Chicago, 111.: U. S. Army 
Ijelt buckle, found in one of the public 
Iniildings, Ilabana, Cuba. 36141. 

Philadelphia Academy of Sciences, 
Philadelphia, Pa.: Two bats {Phyllon- 
yrteritt) . Exchange. 36326. 

Philadelphia Museums, Philadelphia, 
Pa.: Fifty-four specimens of violets. 
Exchange. 36084. 

Pierson, Mrs. D. L., East Northfield, 
^lass. : Katydid, Srudderia cnrricauda 
Serv.; tree-crickets, (EcanOias niveus 
De Geer, and the Alder woolly aphid, 
Pemphigus iesselata Fitch. 35520. 

Pike, G. H., Glens Falls, N. Y.: Eight 
fragments of-pottery. 35304. 

PiLLSBURY, D. S., New York, N. Y. : 
Elbow melodeon. Purchase. 36196. 



Piper, C. V., Cambridge, Mass.: Re- 
ceived through De]>artment of Agricul- 
ture: Plant from Washington, D. C. 
(36507); plants (36689, 36702). Ex- 
change. 

PiRssoN, Prof. L. v., Yale L'niversity, 
New Haven, Conn. : Collection of rocks 
made in central France, around Cler- 
mont-Ferrand, obtained by AVilliam 
MacClure. 36004. 

Pittier, Henri R., San Jose, Costa Rica: 
One hundred plants from Costa Rica 
(35597); 152 plants from Costa Rica 
(36564). Purchase. 

Plitt, C. C, Baltimore, Md. Received 
through Department of Agriculture: 
Three plants. Exchange. 35642. 

Pollard, C. L., U. S. National Museum: 
Two hundred and forty-five specimens 
of insects from Miami County, Fla. 
(35262); hat {Vespertlliofuscus) (35363); 
200 plants from West Virginia and 
Virginia (35580); 8 specimens of Odo- 
nata from Washington, D. C., and vicin- 
ity (35823); 44 specimens (10 species of 
Odonata), from Lowell, W. Va., and 
]\Iountain Lake, Va. (35824); 20 spec- 
imens of Lygodium palmatum (35850); 
15 cryiatogams from the District of 
Columbia (.36016); .30 plants from 
Maryland (36119); 3 plants from 
Maryland (36481); 200 plants (35644); 
.30 plants from Virginia (36571); spec- 
imen of Arahis from Maryland (36572) ; 
35 specimens of Odonata, etc. (36662); 

Pou, Jose, Ponce, P. R. : Specimen of 
coffee from Porto Rico. 35354. 

Powell, W. F. (See under State, De- 
partment of. ) 

Prague, Bohemia, K. K. Bohmishce 
Karl -Ferdinand Universit.jlt. Re- 
ceived through Dr. Anton Fritsch: 
Twenty specimens illustrating the de- 
velopment of Sao ]nrs>(ta; 3 trilobites; 
12 species of cystida?; hammer used l)y 
Barrande in geological work (35609); 
9 specimens of Cambrian brachiopods 
from Bohemia (35690) . Exchange. 

Prague, Bohemia, Museum des Koni- 
GREiCHS Boh MEN. Received through 
Dr. Anton Fritsch, director: Collection 
of fresh-water sponges from Germany. 
Exchange. 35543. 



106 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Pratt, F. C, Department of Agriculture: 
Ten specimens of insects. 35803. 

Pratt, H. A., AVashington, D. C. : Rain 
cloak, hat, brushes, and model of a 
Filipino hut. 36556. 

Preble, E. A., Department of Agricul- 
ture: Five frogs from the District of 
Columbia (36431 ) ; 2 frogs from INIar}'- 
land (36495). 

Prentiss, Dr. D. W. (See under W. 
Colvill.) 

Preston, H. L., Rochester, N. Y. : Me- 
teoric stone from Bohemia, and a speci- 
men of meteoric stone from France. 
Purchase. 36676. 

Price, Miss S. F., Bowling Green, Ky. : 
Plants and fresh-water shells (35526, 
35698, 36102, 36404) . 

Price, W. W., Nordhoff, Cal. : Five skins 
and skulls of mammals. 35997. 

Pringle, C. G., Charlotte, Vt. : Four 
hundred plants from INIexico (35271, 
35897). Purchase. 

Proudfit, Robert, Washington, D. C. : 
Collection of stone implements from 
an Indian village site near Chain 
Bridge. 36340. 

Public Museum. (See under Wanganui, 
New Zealand.) 

Puffer, R., Dorchester, Mass. : Two speci- 
mens of native copper from Central 
Mine, Keweenaw County, Mich. 35474. 

Purcell, N. J., Hillsboro, Va. : Roseate 
Spoonbill from Southern Florida. 
35290. 

Putnam, Hon. Herbert. (See under 
Congress, Library of. ) 

Putnam, Mrs. J. D., Davenport, Iowa: 
Basket from Aleutian Island. Ex- 
change. 36136. 

Quick, Richard. (See under London, 
England, Horniman Museum.) 

Ralph, Dr. AV. L., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Sixteen mammals from New 
York. 35853. 

Ramsdell, Dr. F. R., Lampasas, Tex.: 
Cell of an Odynerid wasp. 35280. 

Randall, C. AV., Austinburg, Ohio: (Ela- 
terid) {Asaphes memnomus Hbst.) and 
several specimens of insects {I'socuh) 
{Psocns renoms Burm.). 35379. 

Randolph, N. & Son, Houston, Tex.: 
Case-bug worms ( Tliyridopteryx epheme- 
rseforinis Haworth) . 35431. 



Randolph, P. B., Seattle, Wash.: Seven 
fragments of pottery from Kitchen Mid- 
dens, near the junction of Nauvaranok 
River and Yukon, Alaska. 35521. 

Raymond, AA'. H., East Orange, N. J.: 
Copalite containing insects. 35846. 

Ravnor, N. (See under Fish Commis- 
sion, U. S.) 

Ray, H. S. (See under Lambert, AA^ M. ) 

Reading, H. G., Franklin, Pa.: AVorm 
case (35541); alcoholic specimens of 
Bipalium keivense (35739). 

Reed, AA^'alter D., Adelaide, South Aus- 
tralia. Shells from South Australia. 
Exchange. 35492. 

Reeder, J. T., Calumet, Mich.: Specimen 
of domeykite in quartz (35282); 2 speci- 
mens of mohawkite (36345). 

Reverchon, J., Dallas, Tex.: Twelve 
plants (gift) (36224); 100 specimens of 
Umbelliferse from Texas (purchase) 
(36442). 

Reynolds, Dr. E. R., Pension Office, 
AVashington, D. C. : Three ferns (35622) ; 
specimen of Viola hrittoniana, from 
Maryland (36518). 

Rhode Island Graphite Company, Prov- 
idence, R. I. Received through J. M. 
Gross, vice-president: Graphite from 
Cranston, R. I. 36036. 

Richardson, C. H., Hanover, N. H. : Two 
specimens of rhodonite from AVaits 
River, Vermont. 35556. 

Richardson, Ja.mes, Alamogordo, N. 
]\Iex. : Specimen of iron ore found in the 
San Adreas Mountains. 36413. 

Richardson, AA'^. AV., Cooman, Manitoba, 
Canada: Luna moth. Actio s Inna Lin- 
lueus. 36599. 

Richmond, Dr. C. AA'^., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Eleven species of land shells 
from Porto Rico (36192) ; 7 birds' skins, 
a mouse, and a small collection of shells 
from San Juan, P. R. (36201); insects, 
shells, crustaceans from Porto Rico 
(36232); collection of mammals, birds, 
reptiles, insects, crustaceans, worms, 
and mollusks from Cuba and Porto 
Rico (36467) ; natural-history speci- 
mens from Porto Rico (36559). 

RiDGWAY, Robert, U. S. National Muse- 
um: Three hundred and nineteen birds' 
skins from Alaska. 35457. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



107 



EiLEY, .1. II., V. 8. National Museum: 
Thirti'oii inannuals from Franklin, W. 
Va. (35259); 30 mammal skins from 
the same place (35309); snake and 8 sal- 
amanders from West Virginia (35328); 
14 mammal skins from Franklin, W. 
\'a. (35362); land and fresh-water shells 
from West Virginia (35429); 11 birds' 
skins (35995) ; 3 eggs of Ampelis cedro- 
ruiii, from West Virginia (36027) ; 6 
mammals (36086); Pine Mouse {Micro- 
lus pinetorum) (36093); 35 birds' skins 
and 3 bird's eggs (36264, 36302); col- 
lection of insects and 48 birds' skins 
from Cuba (36415); reptiles and ba- 
trai'hians from Cuba (36457) ; collection 
of natural-history specimens and geo- 
logical material from western Cuba 
(36484); 5 specimens of fossil corals 
( 36491 ) ; large collections of plants from 
Cuba (36253, 36254, 36271, 36289, 36297, 
36298, 36318, 36319, 36329, 36337, 36382, 
36424, 36487, 36573, 36641, 36660, 36701 ) . 

Roach, James, Joplin, Mo. Received 
through F.W. Crosby: Calcite crystals. 
36434. 

KoBBiNS, Dr. H. A., Washington, D. C. : 
Shells {rin/sas) from Burkartsville, Md. 
35277. 

RocKHiLL, Hon. W. W., Bureau of Amer- 
ican Republics, Washington, D. C. : 
Greek musical instrument. 35565. 

Roe, W. C, Colony, Okla. T. : Arapaho 
dance outfit. Purchase. 35699. 

Rose, J. N., U. S. National Museum: Col- 
lection of Mexican plants (35950) ; land 
shells from Mexico (36019) ; 216 plants 
from Mexico (36157) . 

Rosenberg, W. F. H., London, England: 
Seven hundred and fifty specimens of 
Lepidoptera from Colombia and Ecua- 
dor. Purchase. 35633. 

Ross, C, Howard, Kans. : One hundred 
and twenty specimens of Upper Car- 
boniferous fossils from Kansas (35243); 
195 si)e<'imensof fossils from the Upper 
Coal Measures of Elk County, Kans. 
(35649). 

Rostel, C. B., Medford, Oreg. : Specimen 
of coleopterous larvas. 36575. 

RowLES, Prof. W. W., Cornell University, 
Ithaca, N. Y. : Eighteen plants from 
New York and North Carolina. Ex- 
change. 35875. 



Royal Botanic Garden. (See under 
Calcutta, India.) 

Royal Botanic Gardens. (See under 
Kew, England. ) 

Rubin, C. A., Soldiers' Home, Washing- 
ton, D. C. : Three moths. 36677. 

Russell, Prof. I. C, Ann Arbor, Mich.: 
Calcareous marl used in making cement. 
36017. 

Rust, Dr. R. C, Hudson, Ohio: Shells. 
35991. 

Ruth, A., Knoxville, Tenn.: One hun- 
dred and thirty-three plants. Pur- 
chase. 35270. 

Rydberg, p. a., Bronx Park, N. Y. : 
Plant from Big Horn Mountains, Mon- 
tana. 36362. (See under Agriculture, 
Department of. ) 

Sabin, J. F., New York City: Oil i)ortrait 
of an Indian. Purchase. 35241. 

Samaha, M., Washington, D. C. : Twenty- 
four pieces of Bedouin jewelry. Pur- 
chase. 36211. 

Samson, H. W., Washington, D. C. : En- 
graved portrait of Creneral and Mrs. 
Washington, by Stuart. 36383. 

San Jose, Costa Rica, Museo Nacional. 
Received through Jose C. Zeledon: Six- 
teen birds' skins from Costa Rica. Gift. 
36665. 

Santos, Mrs. T. Ale.tandro, Shorthills, 
N. J. Received through Julio R. San- 
tos: Stone figure from Ecuador. 36286. 

Santos, Julio R. (See under Mrs. Ale- 
jandro Santos.) 

Sao Paulo, Brazil, Museu Paulista. 
Received through Dr. H. von Ihering, 
director: Twenty-seven specimens of 
South American brachiopods. Ex- 
change. 35911. 

Saunders, D. A., Brookings, S. Dak.: 
Ninety plants. Purchase. 35865. 

Schafer, Charles. (See under Mrs. 
Elizabeth Lloyd Lee. ) 

Scheol, J. C, San Juan, V. R. : Mole 
cricket. 35789. 

Schiller, Miss Bertha, La Salle, 111.: 
Beetle {Coptocyda aurichnlcea Fabr. ). 
35618. 

Schuchert, Charles, U. S. National 
Museum: Pair of summer kamicks used 
by natives of Niakomat, Noursoak 
Peninsula, North Greenland (35303); 
34 specimens of fossils from Baffin Land 



108 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



ScnucHERT, Charles — Continued, 
and 8()8 specimens of fossils from Guelph 
(]Hirchase) (35702); collection of fos- 
sils (35778); 50 specimens of Triassic 
and Jurassic and 225 specimens of Cre- 
taceous invertebrate fossils and 200 
lithological specimens from Wyoming 
( 35868 ) ; plants from Wyoming (35870 ) ; 
2 specimens of fossil wood from Bates 
Hole, Wyo. ; a specimen of Eqimetnm, 
from Freezeout Mountain, Wyoming, 
and a specimen of Halymcnites major, 
from Cooper County, Wyo. (35917); 
1 , 322 specimens of Jurassic fossi Is, repre- 
senting 76 species, collected near Ma- 
lone, Tex., by F. W. Cragin (purcbase) 
(36601 ) ; 2 fossil corals and an echinoid 
spine from the Kocene of Marlboro, 
Md. (36622). 
ScHWARZ, E. A., Department of Agricul- 
ture: Reptiles from Arizona and Cali- 
fornia, obtained by H. G. Hubbard 
(35782) ; snake ( Tantilla nigriceps) from 
Arizona (35838). 
ScHWAKz, E. A., and H. G. Hubbard. 
Received through Mr. Schwarz: 3,000 
specimens of North American insects. 
35819. 
Scisco, L. D., Baldwinsville, N. Y. : Bowl- 
shaped stone. 36688. 
Scott, J. R., Petros, Tenn. : Night-flying 
Moth, Triptogon modesta Harris. 35433. 
Scott, Robert, Pioneer, Mo. Received 
through J. F. Hutchens: Toolh of a 
bison. 36229. 
Seal, W. P., Delair, N. J.: Specimen of 
Ophibolus doliatus trkmgulus and a young 
turtle (35284); fishes from North Caro- 
lina (36361). 
Seegear, G. a., V. S. National Museum : 
Specimen of Spelerpes ruber, from Mary- 
land. 36496. 
Sehon, E., Huntington, W. Va. : Tooth 

of a mammoth. 36409. 
Sells Brothers Circus. (See under 

Adam Forepaugh.) 
Settle, Dr. T. L., Paris, Va. Received 
through J. Rush Marshall: Coiled taper 
and stand known as "Confederate Can- 
dle." 35958. 
Seward, Miss Risley, Washington, D. C. : 

English hunting knife. 35407. 
Sharp, Dr. David, Cambridge University, 
Cambridge, England: Six cotypes of 
Hawaiian Hyment)ptera. 36619. 



Shaw, C. P., Alberene, Va. : Wheel-bug, 
Prionidus cristatus Linnaeus. 35755. 

Shaw, R. E., Alberene, Va. : Ground 
snake, or Worm snake (\irpho))hiops 
amoemis. 36227. 

Sheahan, Thomas, Herring, N. Y. (home 
address, Geneva, 111.): Fossil found in 
Lewis County, N. Y. 36593. 

Shear, C. L., Department of Agriculture: 
Collection of insects (35710); 8 plants 
from Oregon (36291). 

Sheldon, E. P. (See under Agriculture, 
Department of.) 

Shelev, O. C, Independence, Mo.: Skin 
of Loggerhead Shrike, Lurms ludovici- 
anus, from Missouri. 35393. 

Shepard, Dr. C. U., Summerville, S. C. : 
Shepard collection of minerals; mete- 
oric papers; paper trays; bound cata- 
logue of mineral collection; autograph 
of Adams's "Classification of Mine- 
rals" (loan) (35914); specimen of 
Bishopville meteorite (exchange) 
(36278). 

Shepherd, R. S. , Kensington, Md. : Speci- 
men of Brunnich's Murre, Uria lomvla 
35883. 

Shindler, a. Z. (estate of): Collection oi 
stone implements, arrow-points, etc., 
principally from the District of Colum- 
bia and vicinity. 35617. 

Shufeldt, Miss Katherine, Washington, 
D. C. : Beetle (Purpuricenus humeralw 
Fabr.). 36638. 

Shufeldt, Percy W., Washington, D. C. : 
Natural-history specimens from Smiths 
Island, Virginia, and Maryland (35696) ; 
2 lizards from Chesapeake Beach, 
Maryland (36510). 

Simpson, W. W., Manchester, N. H.: 
Five birds' skins from Tibet. Purchase. 
36474. 

SiNGLEY, J. A., Giddings, Tex.: Five 
specimens of Eocene corals, includ- 
ing types of Oculina singleyl Vaughan, 
and a figured specimen of Turbhiofia 
pharelra Lea. Exchange. 36630. 

SissoN, D. C, Port Angeles, Wash.: Elk 
{Cervus canadensis). Purchase. 36344. 

Skiff, F. J. V. (See under Barnhart 
Brothers & Spindler. ) 

Skinner, F. B., Greene, N. Y. : Egg of a 
Pekin duck. 36411. 



LIST OB^ ACCESSIONS. 



109 



Skinner, Dr. Henry, Academy of Nat- 
ural Soiencesi, Philadelphia, Pa.: Two 
Noctuid moths from Point Barrow, 
Alaska. 36306. 

Slack, Rev. W. 8., Musson, La.: Walk- 
ing-stick, Diapheromera denticus Stiil. 
35519. 

Sloan, C. G., Wa.shingt6n, D. C. : Bur- 
mah drum and a fetish god from Africa. 
Purchase. 36348. 

Slocum, Capt. Joshua, Larchmont, X. Y. : 
Gorgonian from near the island of 
Kodriquez, section of limb of Pmtdia 
rotendifnliu, and a stone ax from New 
Guinea. 36605. 

Slosson, Mrs. A. T., New York City: 
Eleven specimens of Hymenoptera 
(new to the collection) (35687); 6 
specimens of Diptera (36293) ; 58 spec- 
imens of Diptera (36418). 

Smart, Dr. E. N., Madison, Nebr.: Right 
humerus of a Trumpeter Swan. Olor 
buccinator. 36070. 

Smith, D. Wilmot, Breckenridge, Minn. : 
Indian drinking cup made of birch 
bark, from Leach Lake, Cass County, 
:\Iinn. 36276. 

Smith, Dr. H. M., LT. S. Fish Commis- 
sion : Land and fresh-water shells from 
Lake Erie. 35416. (See under Fish 
Commission, U. S.) 

S.MiTH, Prof. J. B., New Brunswick, N. J. : 
Seven type species of Noctuid;e (35348) ; 
pui)a, larva, and imago of an Ant-lion, 
}fiirrnelco>i immacidatusT>eiieer {'.i623-i) ; 
45 specimens of Noctuid moths of which 
43 are type specimens (36311); 301 
tj'pes and cotypes of Noctuid moths 
(36511). 

Smith, Capt. John Donnell, Baltimore, 
Md. : Plants from Central America. 
35904. 

Smith, Mrs. Rosa Wright, Washington, 
I). C. : A copy of "Freedom," May 25, 
1899, a newspaper printed at ]\Ianila. 
35394. 

S.MITHSONIAX Institution, Mr. S. P. Lang- 
ley, Secretary. 
Collection of Japanese theatrical masks 
from Japan. Received from Prof. 
Alexander Graham Bell. 35254. 
Collection of volcanic formations from 
the Canary Islands and S[)anish pos- 
session of Rio del Oro, on the western 



Smithsonian Institution — Continued, 
coast of Africa; sample of" cake or 
bread found in an ancient tomb; ear 
bones of a whale. 36695. Received 
from Mr. Solomon Berliner, U. S. 
Consul, Teneriffe, Canary Islands. 

Two cut sapphires from Yogo Gulch, 
Montana, and a cut opal from INlexico. 
Received from Dr. L. T. Chamberlin. 
35244. 

Moro dagger of native manufacture from 
Mindanao. Received from Mr. Rich- 
ard Coleman, Manila, P. I. 36558. 

Articles belong to the late General 
Swords, consisting of a coat, IT. S. A. 
(1838); pompon; 4 epauletts; com- 
plete set of aiguilettes; regulation 
sword (1838); yellow silk sash; pat- 
ent leather sword belt; chapeau and 
plume; blue feathers (1838); regula- 
tion chapeau ' of 1860; forage cap 
(1860); dispatch ])elt with pocket; 
military saddle valise; photograph of 
General Swords; plan of West Point 
Military Academy, drawn by Cadet 
Swords; commissions from 1829-1865; 
3 newspaper clippings and a map; 4 
insignia (3 eagles and a star). Re- 
ceived from Miss E. H. Cotheal. 
36367. 

Collection of plants belonging to the 
late Dr. G. De Chalmot. Received 
from Mrs. De Chalmot. 36032. 

Stone chair (complete); stone chair 
(broken); stone pillar from the sum- 
mit of "Cerro de Hojas," Province 
of Manibi, Republic of Ecuador. Re- 
ceived from Hon. Perry M. de Leon, 
Consul-general of the United States, 
Guayaquil, Ecuador. 36285. 

One of the earliest forms and one of the 
latest improved Hammond type- 
writei'S. Received from the Ham- 
mond Typewriter Company, through 
Mr. J. B. Hammond, president. 
36557. 

Bronze medal of the Diamond Jubilee 
of Queen Victoria, 1897, struck by the 
order of the corporation of the city of 
London. Received from the corpo- 
ration of the city of London. 35970. 

Three thousand two hundred and 
eighty-eight cryj)togams. Received 
from Dr. Charles Mohr. 36105. 



110 



REPORT (►F NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Smithsonian Institution — Continued. 

Bronze medal in comnienioration of 
the civic library inaugurated l^y H. J. 
Tiffic, in 1896. Received from the 
Soci^te de Numismatique et d'Ar- 
chseologie de Montreal, through 
Emanuel Ohlen, corresponding sec- 
retary of the society. 35287. 

Collection of casts of seals. Received 
from Mr. S. Patcanof, St. Petersburg, 
Russia. 36461. 

A set of eggsof Stephen's Whippoorwill, 
Antrostomus macromyctax, and a set 
of eggs of the Western Nighthawk, 
Chordeilis virginianus henryi. Re- 
ceived from Dr. William L. Ralph. 
36123. 

Mummy from Cuzco, Peru. Received 
from Dr. A. H. C. Russell, U. S. N. 
36836. 

Transmitted from the Bureau, of Eth- 
nology, Maj. J. W. Powell, director: 

Collection of Indian baskets from Cal- 
ifornia, obtained through Dr. J. W. 
Hudson, Ukiak, Cal. (35435); collec- 
tion of Carib implements from the 
West Indies, obtained through M. 
Louis Guesde, Pointe a. Pitre, Guade- 
loupe, West Indies (35724); 4 an- 
cient copper implements, received 
through Isaac Otis (35787); collec- 
tion of ethnological objects from the 
Wasco and other tribes of the Warm 
Spring Indians, obtained through 
Mrs. E. T. Houtz '(35837); collection 
of ethnological objects from Terra 
del Fuego, obtained by J. B. Hatcher 
(35895); collection of Indian ethno- 
logical objects, obtained through 
James Mooney (36021); Kutenai 
canoe and 2 pairs of Kutenai snow- 
shoes, received through A. W. Bar- 
ber, General Land Ofiice (36096) ; 
collection of ethnological objects 
from Mexico, New Mexico, and Ari- 
zona, obtained by Dr. Walter Hough 
(36143); Zuiii and Navajo blankets, 
received through E. M. Cushing 
(36174); collection of Washoe bas- 
kets, etc., receiv^ed through Eugene 
Mead (36244); collection of Ojibwa 
ethnological ol)jects, received through 
G. H. Beaulieu (36315); 3 pottery 
bowls, pottery cup, from Black Falls 



Smithsonian Institution — Continued, 
ruins, Wukoki, 40 miles northeast 
of Flagstaff, Ariz.; tunjuoise mosaic 
earring, from the same location, re- 
ceived through Dr. J. Walter Fewkes 
(36468); coUecrtion of stone imple- 
ments and other objects from Ja- 
maica, West Indies, received tlirough 
R. C. MacCormick (36678); collec- 
tion of ethnological, archaeological, 
and historical objects, collected by 
W.H.Holmes. 36681. (See under 
Bailey, G. W.; Deisher, H. K.; Mc- 
Gee, Dr. Anita Newcomb; Hudson, 
J.W.; Carrico, E.T.). 
Transmitted from the National Zoological 
Park, Dr. Frank Baker, superinten- 
dent: 
Specimen of Auchenia huanacos ( 35352 ) ; 
cormorant and anhinga ( 35409 ) Lemur 
[Lemur mongoz) (35410); specimen of 
LagotJirix humholdti and 2 specimens 
of Coati-mundi ( AfeMa?tt/a) (35487) ; 
2 specimens of iguana from Mexico 
and Honduras (35496); cockatoo in 
flesh (35522); specimen of Ctcnomura 
teres, from Mexico (35592); 2 birds 
in the flesh (35606) ; black bear ( Ursioi 
americanus) and a lion {Felis lea) 
(35608); snake {Pituophis melano- 
leucus), from Florida (35663), 2 fla- 
mingoes and aspotted hyena (35730) ; 
specimen of Ctenosaura, teres, from 
Mexico (35745); flamingo and a Cu- 
ban parrot (35861); puma {Felis con- 
color) (35940); kangaroo (36049); 
puma { Felis coiicolor) , Mexican Coati, 
Nama narica (36127); snake (36142); 
gray i)arrot {PsiUacuH erithacvs) 
(36155); sw&n (Cygnusolor) (36155); 
green monkey {CercojntJtecus cyno- 
surus) and a zebu (Bos irulicus) 
(36184); American l)uffalo (7?/.w« 
(unericanus) (36193); iguana from 
Honduras (36194); snake from Flor- 
ida (36195); flamingo, chachalaca 
and wild turkey (36284) ; snake ( Cro- 
talus horridus), from West Virginia 
(36335); monkey {Macacus) (36366); 
bear ( Ursiis) ' (36303); Squirrel- 
Monkey, Chrysothrix sciurus (36545); 
2 gray wolves ( Canis lupus griseo- 
alhus), black bear ( IJrsus americanus) 
(36560) ; snake ( (Jphisaurus ventralis), 
from Georgia (36666). 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



Ill 



SxowDox, R. P., Bordentown, N. J. : Two 
pieces of the original rail over which 
the engine "John Bull" was run. 
35630. 

SxYDEK, Prof. A. J., Belvidere, 111.: 
Thirty-three specimens of Lepidojitera 
(36213); 48 specimens of Lepidoptera 
containing species new to the collection 
(36012). 

SocoLoFF, D., Taschla, Government of 
Orenburg, Russia: Twenty-three speci- 
mens of Jurassic invertebrate fossils 
(5 species and 4 varieties) of Aucella 
from Russia. Received through the 
U. S. Geological Survey. Exchange. 
36002. 

SoLTAU, Hucio, e.-jtate of. Received 
through Otto Soltau, New York City: 
Collection of Coleoptera obtained in the 
southern and western sections of the 
United States. Bequest. 35536. 

SoLT.\r, Otto. (See under Soltau, estate 
of Hugo. ) 

SoRRELL, S. X. , Farmers, Ky. : Ash bee- 
tle, Dynastes tityus Linneeus. 35308. 

Sorrels, C. M., U. S. National Museum: 
Old-style Engli.«h weight, found in 
Prince George County, Md. 35408. 

SouLE, Mrs. C. G., Brandon, Vt. : Two 
ro9ega.\\s{Rhodites). 35298. 

Spainhour, Dr. J. M., Lenoir, N. C. : 
Moth {Ecpantheria scribonia Stoll). 
35361. 

Spencer, Mr. Received through Depart- 
ment of Agriculture: Photograph and 
a seed from Central America. 35936. 

Spier, G. W., Washington, D. C: Eng- 
lish watch movement. 35808. 

Stahl, Dr. A., Bayamon, P. R. : Fresh- 
water crabs from Porto Rico. 36643. 

Stangl, Paul L. , acting hospital steward, 
brigade hospital, Bacoor, P. I. : Collec- 
tion of insects from Bacoor (36087); 
geological specimens (36516) ; collec- 
tion of insects (36430). 

Staxton', T. W. (See under Bruce, Rob- 
ert E. ) 

Staxtox, Rev. W. A., S. J., Belize, Brit- 
ish Honduras. Received through Dr. 
L. O. Howard: Insects. 36151. 

St.\pler, R. L., Jasper, Fla. : Moth {Clite- 
rocampa term Linnteus) . 35709. 

Staples, C. H., Nashville Tenn.: Pupa 
case of an Ephemerid. 36597. 



State, Departmext of: Specimen of cin- 
nabar obtained through Hon. W. F. 
Powell (35247). Received through 
Assistant Secretary David J. Hill: Chi- 
nese flag used upon the occasion of the 
appearance of the first American em- 
bassy in Chinese waters (35766). 

Stearxs, Dr. R. E. C, Los Angeles, Cal. : 
Thirty-seven specimens of Tivela cras- 
mtelloides from California (35252); 6 
species of shells nitroduced into the 
Californian fauna and apparentl)' accli- 
mated (35785); 3 specimens of Epi- 

• phragmophora (36268). 

Steele, E. S., Washington, D. C. ; One 
thousand three hundred plants (35443); 
3 plants (36242); plant (36331); plant 
from Maryland (36506). 

Steele, AV. C, Switzerland, Fla. Re- 
ceived through Department of Agricul- 
ture: Four plants (35851); 4 l)ulbs 
(35945); 20 bulbs of Amaryllis Ireatea 
(35974). 

Stejxeger, Dr. L., U. S. National Mu- 
seum: Collection of natural history 
specimens from Cuba and Porto Rico 
(36467); natural history specimens 
from Porto Rico (36559). 

Stephens, J. H., Jacksonville, Fla.: De- 
composed chert. 35387. 

Stephens, Hon. J. H., M. C, House of 
Representatives: Volcanic ash from 
Wilbarger County, Tex. (35996, 36616). 

Stepp, F. E., Warrenton, Va. : Luna 
Moth, Act'ias lima Linnaeus. 35347. 

Stern, H., & Co., Allegan, Mich. Me- 
teorite. Purchase. 35742. 

Stewart, Capt. John, Washington, D. C. : 
Piece of cloth from the Lincoln cata- 
falque. 35909. 

Stickney, R. H., jr., Anniston, Ala.: 
Moth {Attacus polyphemus). 35432. 

Stilwell, L. W., Deadwood, S. Dak.: 
Skull and jaw of a fossil rhinoceros 
{ Dicer atherium) (purchase) (36159); 
skull of a fossil pig representing the 
genus Elotherium (36295). 

Stone, A. J., New York City: Skin, skull, 
and leg bones of a Caribou. Purchase. 
36107. 

Stranahan, J. W., Everglade, Fla.: Suit 
of Seminole Indian. Purchase. 36168. 

Straiss, Hon. Oscar S. (See under Tur- 
key, Sultan of. ) 



112 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900, 



Streckek, Dr. H., Reading, Pa.: Seven 
specimens of Lepidoptera. 36228. 

Strickland, F. P., Kansas City, Kans. : 
Twenty coins (foreign and domestic); 
2 Confederate notes and fragments of 
notes(35305) ; arrow-head or spear-head 
from Wyandotte County (35438); for- 
eign coin (35530). 

Stringer, C. A. , Munnsville, N. Y. : Larva 
of Thyreus abbottii Swainson. 36700. 

Strong, Mrs. W. W., Kenosha, Wis.: 
Species of fungus {M'dromyces) from 
Virginia. 36408. 

Strother, W. L. , Vicksburg, Miss. : Molh 
{Attacus polyphemus) (35300); speci- 
mens of Actios luna Linnaeus. (36305) . 

Sumpter, J. W., Elliston, Va. : Two eggs 
of a Hog-nose Snake {Heterodon pla- 
tirJiinus). 35434. 

Suter, H., Christchurcli, New Zealand. 
Received througli Sir Charles Eliot: 
Unios from New Zealand. 35650. 

Swain, C. 0., Roslyn, Wash. : Six speci- 
mens of fossil leaves. 35406. 

Swain, Thomas, Paradox, Colo. : Speci- 
men of uranium ore and associations of 
clay and sandstone. 35334. 

Sweetser, a. R., Forest Grove, Oreg. : 
Twenty-four plants. Exchange. 36623. 

Swipt, F. W., Alden, N. Y. : Nine speci- 
mens of Meloe angusticoUis Say. 35527. 

SwiTZER, Mrs. M., Vesuvius, Va. : Larvjw 
of a moth {HemiJenca maia Drury). 
36600. 

Tait, J. S., Phoenix, Ariz.: Collection of 
beetles. 35717. 

Talbott, Henry (no address given): 
Specimen of Brunnich's Murre, IJria 
lomvia from Four Mile Run Bay, Vir- 
ginia. 35862. 

Talmage, Dr. J. E., Deseret Museum, 
Salt Lake City, Utah: Specimens of 
crude and refined salt from Great Salt 
Lake. Exchange. 35339. 

Tanner, S. R., Brightwood, Va. : Speci- 
men of Dynastes tityus Linnjeus, and a 
specimen of Orthosoma brunneum Fors- 
ter. 35419. 

Tarbox, Mrs. J. H., Westport, Me.: 
Sphinx moth. 35269. 

Tarleton, J. B., Seattle, Wash.: One 
hundred and seventy-one plants from 
Yukon, Alaska. Purchase. 36079; 



Tassin, Wirt, U. S. National Museum: 
Canvas canoe. 35461. 

Taylor, C. B., Kingston, Jamaica: Col- 
lection of insects from Jamaica (36239) ; 
2 bats from Jamaica (Nyctinomus) 
(36698). 

Taylor, Rev. G. W., Nanaimo, British 
Columbia: Two specimens of sponges 
(new species). 36145. 

Taylor, Capt. J. R. M., U. S. A., Manila, 
P. I. : Set of stamped paper used by 
the insurgent government for deeds, 
transfers, petitions, and documents of 
record. 36439. 

Taylor, Mrs. W. L., Welch, W. Va.; 
Crab sjiider {Acrosoma rugosa Hentz). 
35483. 

Thomas, Oldfield, British Museum, 
Cromwell road, London, England: 
Forty-six skins and skulls of mam- 
mals. 36216. (See under London, 
England, British Museum.) 

Thompson, D'Arcy W., University Col- 
lege, Dundee, Scotland: Specimen of 
Notoryctes typhlops. Exchange. 35931. 

Thompson, J. W., Philadelphia, Pa.: 
Plaster cast of rattlesnake from Texas. 
Purchase. 35733. 

Thorn, Maj. Walter, Brooklyn, N. Y. : 
Medal of the Society of War Veterans 
and Sons. 35302. 

Thorne, Mrs. S. C, Buffalo, N. Y.: Four 
hundred and sixty-six birds' skins col- 
lected by the late Capt. P. M. Thorne. 
Purchased. 36517. 

Tiffany & Co., New York City: Twenty- 
one watches. Purchase. 35489. 

Tilden, Miss Josephine, Minneapolis, 
Minn.: One hundred specimens of 
Algae of North America. Purchase. 
36290. 

Tilden, Dr. W. C, Washington, D. C: 
Snake {Ophibolus doliatus). 35561. 

Todd, Commander C. C, U. S. N., Rio 
Janeiro, Brazil: Specimen of fossil 
wood from Brazil. 35306. 

Topping, D. L., Washington, D. C. : 
Plant. Exchange. 35578. 

Townes, William, Cuscowilla, Va. : 
Snake {Ophibolus doliatus syspilus). 
35278. 

Townsend, C. H., U. S. Fish Commission: 
Collection of objects from Tokelan, 
Solomon Island, New Britain, Samoa, 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



113 



TowxsExn, C. H. — Continued. 

and New Guinea (36122); ethnological 
object:^ from Easter, Solomon, Tonga, 
and Fiji Islands (36365); 6 skins of 
Birds of Paradise (36651). Purchase. 
(See under Wooton, E. O.) 

TowNSEXD, Prof. C. H. Tyler, Las Cruces, 
N. Mex. : Eight hundred and seventy- 
five specimens of Mexican Hymenop- 
tera. Purchase. 35681. 

Tracy, Prof. S. M., Biloxi, INIiss.: One 
hundred and six plants (35679, 35757, 
36109); received through the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, 91 plants (36480), 
3 specimens of Hydrocoti/k' and Chamai- 
crisia from Florida (36567); plants 
(36640). 

Traphagex, Prof. F.W., Bozeman, Mont. : 
Corundum in crj'stals and in gangue 
from Gallatin County, Mont. 36245. 

Traaers, S. H., Richmond, Va.: Two 
specimens of Digger-wasp, SpJiecins 
xpeciosKS Drury. 35542. 

Treasi'ry' Department, Light -House 
Board. Received through A. B. John- 
son: Specimen of bryozoan from the 
bottom of light-vessel No. 53, Charles- 
ton, S. C, in 1894, by John B. Gads- 
den. 35762. 

True, Dr. F. W., U. S. National Museum: 
Specimens of Mallotus villosiis taken 
from the stomach of a whale [Balxnop- 
ti-nt plii/iiylni^) from Snooks Arm, New- 
foundland; marine invertel)rates, speci- 
mens of sulphur and copper ores, and 
the pelvic bones of whales, from New- 
foundland. 36050. 

TsKAMOTO, Yasusi, Imperial University, 
Tokyo, Japan: Japanese copper coin, 
Temps-tzuho issued in 1840. 35682. 

Turkey, Sultan of. Received through 
Hon. Oscar S. Strauss: Two vases and 
a hand-painted box containing porce- 
lain products of the Imperial Ottoman 
potteries. 36373. 

Turner, A. P., Roswell, N. Mex.: Cater- 
pillar. 35454. 

Turner, H. W., Fish Lake Valley, Ne- 
vada. Received through Department 
of Agriculture: Plant {SarcoJxifns hailetfl 
Coville). 36332. (See under Agricul- 
ture, Department of; Interior Depart- 
ment, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 



Twist, E. ^L, Norfolk, Va. : Fragments 
of pottery from Columbus Island, Re- 
public of Colombia. 36280. 

Tyler, A. A., Easton, Pa.: Forty speci- 
mens of violets. Exchange. 35314. 

Ulmer, I. M., Butler, Ala. : Eleven arrow- 
points. 36686. 

Umbach, L. M., Naperville, 111.: Two 
hundred and fifty-four plants. Ex- 
change. 35532. 

Underwood, C. F., Museo Nacional, San 
Jos6, Costa Rica. Received through 
Jose C. Zeledon : Hummingbird, Micro- 
chera jMrvirostris from Costa Rica. Gift. 
36664. 

Underwood, L. M., Columbia University, 
New York City: Twenty plants. Pur- 
chase. 35946. 

United States Marble Company, Spo- 
kane, Wash. Received through Charles 
S. Nims, president: Five specimens of 
iBarble from Stevens County, AVash. 
35741. 

United States National Museum. The 
following models were made in the 
Anthropological Laboratory : Five 
plaster casts of stone relics (35371) 
model of an Indian village (35386) 
game board and dice from Korea 
lamp stand (model natural size) from 
Korea (35493); small model of loco- 
motive "Stourbridge Lion" (35602) 
model of a primitive log raft (35635) 
model of a primitive dugout (35636) 
model of an open dugout made to illus- 
trate early experiments with paddle 
wheels by Roosevelt (35637); model of 
the V. S. gunboat Monitor, single turret 
(35638) ; model of Rumsey's steam- 
boat (35639); model of John Fitch's 
steamboat (35640); cast of a copper 
celt lent to the Museum by Arthur 
Bibbins, of the Woman's College of 
Baltimore (35908); model of the loco- 
motive "Tom Thumb" (36074); cast 
of a Seneca Indian pipe (36172) ; model 
of a Japanese Jinrikshaw (36206) ; 5 
models of musical instruments (36482); 
2 plaster casts of "Patu Patu" from 
New Zealand (36659). 

Urba, Dr. K., Prague, Bohemia, Austria: 
Specimen of Lissa meteorite. Exchange. 
36493. 



NAT MUS 1900- 



-8 



114 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Urban, I., Botanical Museum, Berlin, 
Germany: Nine hundred and ninety- 
three plants from Porto Rico. Pur- 
chase. 36131. 

Urbina, Dr. Manuel. (See under Mex- 
ico, Mexico, National Museum. ) 

Uricii, F. W., Port-of-Spain, Trinidad. 
Received tlirough F. M. Chapman: 
Eleven 1:)irds' skins from Venezuela. 
36071. 

Van Deusen, R. F., Mahopac, N. Y. : 
Moth (Attacus promethea Dr.). 35385. 

Van Horne, C. F., Glen, N. Y. : Speci- 
men of Xylaria polymorpha. 35345. 

Vanetta, E. G., Academy of Natural 
Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa. : Specimens 
of Zonitoides nummus from Texas. 
36203. 

Vaughan, T. Wayland, U. S. Geological 
Survey: Land snails and shells from 
Eglon, W. Va. (35544); 6 specimens of 
Balanophyllia (?) coniu Socoloff, from 
Jekaterinoslaw, Russia (Oligocene fos- 
sil corals); topotypes and a part of the 
original type material received from 
Dr. Socoloff. (36631.) (See under In- 
terior Department, U. S. Geological 
Survey. ) 

Velie, J. W., St. Joseph, Mich.: Crus- 
taceans from the western coast of Flor- 
ida (35610); cast of a pin made from 
the column of '^ Fulgiir perversa." 
(35703.) 

Verner, Rev. Samuel P., Washington, 
D. 0. : Collection of objects illustrating 
the arts of the people of the Upper 
Kassai River region in South Africa; 
also natural history specimens from the 
same locality. Purchase. 35839. 

Vernon, Dr. J. B., New Boston, 111.: 
Pathologic mussel shells and pearls 
from the Mississippi River (gift) 
(36248) ; 3 specimens of opals (purchase) 
(36279). 

Vernon, J. B., Batesville, Ark.: Speci- 
men of black marble from near Bates- 
ville. 36668. 

Vienna, Austria, K. K. Naturhistori- 
schen Hofmuseum: One hundred cryjv 
togams. Exchange. 35422. 

Volkmar, Lieut. W. S., U. S. A., Fort 
McHenry, Baltimore, Md.: Mole 
Cricket, Gryllotalpa hurealis Burm. 
35647. 



Vriere, Baron Raoul de. Chateau du 
Baes-Veld, Phem, Zedelghem, Belgium; 
Collection of Belgian beetles. Ex- 
change. 35792. 

Wadmond, S. C, Racine, Wis.: Eighty 
specimens of violets from Wisconsin. 
Exchange. 36061. 

Waghorne, Arthur, Bay of Islands, New- 
foundland. Received through the De- 
partment of Agriculture: Seven plants. 
35677. 

Wagner Palace Car Company, New 
York City. Received through W. S. 
Webb, president: Models of sleeping 
cars. 35751. 

Walcott, Charles D., jr., Washington, 
D. C. : Spotted salamander, Ambysioma 
punctaium, from Quebec, Canada. 35603. 

Walker, Maj. E. P., Washington, D. C: 
Beetle {Harpalus ruficornis). 35268. 

Walker, H. P. , Washington, D. C. : Spec- 
imen of Pogonia pendula, from New 
Hampshire. 36014. 

Wanganui, New Zealand, Public Mu- 
seum. Received through S. H. Drew: 
Fishes in alcohol, large lizard, crusta- 
ceans, and cuttlefish, 2 birds' skins and 
obsidian flakes. .35437. 

War Department, Army Medical Mu- 
seum : Collection of human bones made 
during the Hemenway Expedition 
(35301); transmitted by Maj. V. Mc- 
Nally, Ordnance Department: Two U. 
S. magazine rifles and two U. S. maga- 
zine carbines (35500). Received 
through Col. William S. Patten, Quar- 
termaster-General's Office: Book of 
uniforms of the U. S. Army from 1774 
to 1889 (36099). 

Ward's Natural Science Establish- 
ment, Rochester, N. Y. : Specimen of 
orbicular granite from Finland (pur- 
chase) (35512); specimen of heulandite 
(purchase) (35534); skeleton of por- 
poise (purchase) (35770); jaw of a 
small shark (purchase) (35799); speci- 
men of Missouri meteorite and a speci- 
men of Magdalena meteorite (exchange) 
(35890) ; castof a human-headed winged 
lion and a cast of a human-headed 
winged ))ull (purchase) (35893); 
mounted skeleton of an Aye-Aye and 
2 lemurs (purchase) (35938); 7 squir- 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



115 



Ward's Natural Science Establish- 
ment — Continued, 
rels and 2 bats (purchase) (36112); 6 
niaininals from Como River, Africa 
(purchase) (36153); 13 nianuiial skins 
(purchase) (36458); 90 bats (purchase) 
(36687). 

Ward, F. A., Rochester, N. Y.: Eleven 
birds' skins. Purchase. 36674. 

Ward, I'rof. L. F., U. S. Geological Sur- 
vey: One himdred and twenty-two 
plants from Oregon (35631); 25 plants 
from the Grand Canyon of Colorado 
River (35847). 

AVashington Agricultural College, 
Pullman, Wash. Received through R. 
W. Doane: Snake and a salamander. 
36453. 

Waugh, F.W., Toronto, Canada: Ojibway 
sugar camp outfit. Purchase. 35744. 

Way, p. N., Tallapoosa, Ga. Received 
througli Department of Agriculture: 
Two plants (35676); 38 plants (36680). 

Weast, H. H., East Ashford, N. Y.: 
Sphinx moth, Protoparce Carolina Lin- 
nteus. 35746, 

Webb, J. G., Osprey, Fla. : Moth {Ecpan- 
tJieria scribonia StoU). 36106. 

Webb, W. S. (See under Wagner Pal- 
ace Car Company. ) 

Wkhher, H. J., Washington, D. C. : Ten 
specimens of palm (Serenoa) from Flor- 
ida. 36395. 

Weed, W. H. ( See under Interior Depart- 
ment, U. S. Geological Survey. ) 

Weedex, Mrs. Thomas, Florence, Ariz.: 
Two specimens of Kissing bug ( Cono- 
rliinus Kanguisugus Lex.). 35439. 

W'eeden, AV. C, XJ. S. National Museum: 
Turtle (35411); brown bat, Vespertilio 
J'ascus (36180). 

Weeks, A. G., Jr., Boston, Mass.: Sixty 
sjjecimens of Lepidoptera representing 
3.3 species. Exchange. 36041. 

Wkhrle, R. AV., Indiana, Pa.: Beetle 
( Coplonjcia purpv rata Boheman). 
35539. 

Wei.niielmer, Lieut. Charles, U. S. A., 
Manila, P. I.: A species of Cap.'^iaiiii. 
from the Philippine Islands. 36161. 

Wells, J. G., Carriacou, Grenada, West 
Indies: Pair of Cowbirds {Molothrus). 
35402. 



Werckle, C, San Jos^, Costa Rica. 
Received through Department of Agri- 
culture: Five plants. 35795. 
Wheeler, J. A., Milford, N. H.: Seven 
specimens of violets from New Hamp- 
shire. Exchange. 35899. 
Wheeler, Gen. Joseph, U. S. A., Pani- 
qua, Luzon, P. I. Received througli 
Department of Agriculture: Specimen 
of Ceiba casearia Medic from the Phil- 
ippine Islands. 36083. 
White, David, U. S. Geological Survey: 
Plant (Camptosorus) (35545). (See 
under Clearfield Charcoal Company; 
Interior Department, U. S. Geological 
Survey; Wood, James.) 
White, James, Norfolk, A'^a. : Forty cali- 
ber revolver from the wreck of the 
Reina Mercedes and cartridges for the 
same (purchase) (35369); 1-poimd car- 
tridge and a china platter recovered 
from the wreck of the Cristobal Colon; 
also specimens of smokeless powder 
(35372). 
White, Dr. Leonard, AVashington, D. C. : 
Gun made by the Joslyn Erie Fire Arms 
Company, Stonington, Conn. .35722. 
Whited, Kirk. (See under Agriculture, 

Department of. ) 
Whitehead, B., Jackson, Mont.: Ball of 

cast copper. 36343. 
AA^ickham, G. M., Chicago, 111.: AVater 

bug {Belostoma americanum). 35292. 
AVidrig, R. G., Gerry, N. Y.: Specimen 
of Upper Devonian glass sponge. Ex- 
change. 36100. 
Wilder, B. G. , Ithaca, N. Y. : Seventeen 

bats. 35922. 
Williams, A. B., Greenville, S. C. : Cara- 
' bid beetle, Harpalus peimsylvanicus De 

Geer. 35507. 
AVilliams, Prof. 11. S. (See under Inte- 
rior Department, U. S. Geological Sur- 
vey. ) 
AViLLiAMS, J. O., Catoosa, Ind. T. : Chry- 
salis of a diurnal butterfly ( Dariais 
archippus Fabr. ) . 35295. 
Williams, T. A., Takoma, D. C. : Dragon 
fly (Aeschna) (35589) ; 2 specimens of 
A manita strobiliformis ( 35613 ) ; 10 speci- 
mens of Myxomycetes from South Da- 
kota (exchange) (36426). (See under 
Agriculture, Department of. ) 



116 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Williamson, C. P., Philadelphia, Pa.: 
Specimen of Limosella (35417) ; speci- 
men of Viola ixdatd (35525). 

Williamson, E. B., Salem, Ohio. Re- 
ceived through W. P. Hay: Crayfish 
{Cambarus argillicola) from Bluffton, 
Ind. 36452. 

Willis, Mrs. Ida G., Luray, Ya.: Bat 
{Myot'm siibiilatus) (36371); Jumping- 
mouse {Zapus) from Page County, Va. 
(36428.) 

Willis, Capt. M. A., Riverton, Va.: 
Two specimens of Roach or Golden 
Shiner, Notemigonous chrysoleucus. 
36694. 

WiLLSON, J. M., Kissimmee, Fla. Re- 
ceived through Department of x\gri- 
culture: Plant. 35274. 

Wilson, J. H., Yonkers, N. Y.: Speci- 
men of Terebratella liemjMUu, from 
California. 36005. 

Wilson, W. W., Sunnier, Wash.: Speci- 
mens of aluminous silicate. 35763. 

Winchell, N. II., University of Minne- 
sota, Minneapolis, Minn. : Six hundred 
and seventeen specimens of New York 
Helderberg fossils. Exchange. 35736. 

Wing, F. B., Norfolk, Va.: Beetle. 
36252. 

WiNLOCK, W. C. (deceased), Smithso- 
nian Institution: Metal model of the 
orbit of the comet of 1682. 36169. 

Winston, Isaac, Washington, D. C. : 
Concretions from Colorado. 35885. 

WoLCOTT, Mrs. H. L., Dedliam, Mass.: 
Land and fresh-water shells from 
Hawaii (35979); specimens of the seed 
of Ciesalpinia (36035); fossils from the 
Silurian, Devonian, and Carboniferous 
systems (.36334). 

WoLDRiCH, Dr. J. N., K. K. Bohemian 
National University, Prague, Bohemia: 
Eight pieces of moldavite. Exchange. 
36215. 

Wood, D. W., Washington, D. C. : Regu- 
lation sword carried by Gen. James B. 
McPherson, U. S. A., during the civil 
war, 1861-1865. 35765. 

Wood, James, . Anita, Pa. Received 
through David White: Fossil plant 
and fossil wood. 35791. 

Wood, J. Medley. (See under Berea, 
Durban, Natal, Africa.) 



Wood, N. R., U. S. National Museum: 
Specimen of Geothlypis trichas in un- 
usual plumage from the District of 
Columbia, and a blue momitain duck 
from New Zealand (35793); 147 speci- 
mens of Odonata from Clyde, N. Y. 
(35830); 379 specimens of Odonata 
from the District of Columbia and 
vicinity (35831). 

Woodruff, C. A. (See under Metz and 
Schloerb. ) 

Woods, W. L., Washington, D. C. : Fos- 
sil. 35480. 

Woolson, G. a., Pittsford Mills, Vt.: 
Specimen of Phyllachorapteridi^. 35444. 

WooTON, E. O., Mesilla Park, N. Mex.: 
Eighteen plants from Mexico (gift) 
(36243); 250 plants collected by C. H. 
Townsend and C. M. Barber in Chi- 
huahua, Mexico (purchase) (36644). 

Worthen, C. R., Warsaw, 111.: Tortoise 
from the Galapagos Islands. Purchase. 
36626. 

Wright, B. H., Penn Yan, N. Y. : Type 
specimen of Unio danielsi B. H. AV. and 
4 specimens of Unio polymorphus B. H. 
W. (from type lot), Georgia (35276); 
type specimens of Unio dispalans 
(35499); types of 2 species of southern 
unios ( 35666) ; 2 species of unios 
(35684); shell, type of Unio conjugans 
(35781); Unionidpe from the Southern 
States (35937); shells (35975); Union- 
idffi (36178). 

Wright, Rev. T. F. (See under Pales- 
tine Exploration Fund.) 

Yale University, New Haven, Conn. 
Received through Dr. C. E. Beecher: 
Model of Stylonnrus restored to life size 
(gift) (35811); collection of Utica shale 
from Rome, N. Y., containing Triarthrns 
preserving limbs (exchange) (35812); 
Jerome meteorite (exchange) (35891) ; 
specimen of Dalmaniles limtduriis, 12 
specimens of CuryocHmis ornatus and 2 
specimens of Ptychoparia kingi (protas- 
pis stage) (exchange) (36399). 

Yates, J. W., Jr., Markham, Va. : Three 
specimens of limonite pseudomorph 
after pyrite from near Lexington, Va. 
36580. 



LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 



117 



Young, C. G., Berbice, Sea Koiula, Bexhill- 
on-Sea, England: Thirteen bats from 
Berbice. British Guiana (35662); 2 
specimens of crab {Dilocarinus den- 
tains), from Guiana (35764). 

Young, R. T., Boerne, Tex.: One hun- 
dred and three mammals from pAirope 
(purchase) (35668); reptiles and l)atra- 
chians (gift) (36617); reptiles, batra- 
chians, and an insect from Texas 
(36656). 

YouNti, Mrs. Susannah Tloi/r, Washing- 
ton, D. C. : Complete wedding dress of 
colonial times worn in 1784. 36612. 



Zeiinder, G. N., Areata, Cal. (present 
address, Washington, D. C): Basket 
hat from the Klamath Indians; 2 model 
cradles or baskets for carrying children 
and a small box of beads found in an 
Indian grave near Areata. 35804. 

Zeledon, Jose C. (See under San Jos6, 
Costa Rica, Museo Nacional; Under- 
wood, C. F. ) 

ZoLLiKOFER, E. H., St. Galleu, Switzer- 
land: One hundred and eighty-two 
bats, shrews, and mice from Italy, 
Sardinia, and Switzerland. Purchase. 
35250. 



APPENDIX III. 

Distribution of Specimens. 



AFRICA. 

Albany Museum, Grahamstown, South 
Africa: Fur seals (2 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 13345.) 

AMERICA. 

North America. 

CANADA. 

Ontario. 
Fowler, James, Kingston: Plants (10 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 13085.) 
Geological Survey of Canada, Ottawa: 

Fossil medusje ( 15 specimens ) . Gift. 

(D. 13448.) 
Lam be, Lawrence M., Ottawa: Fossil 

coral (1 specimen). Exchange. (D. 

13385. ) 
Macoun, J. M., Ottawa: Plants (204 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 12860, 

13091.) 

UNITED STATES. 

Alabama. 

Earle, F. S., Auburn: Plants (381 speci- 
mens). Exchange. Plant (1 speci- 
men). Lent for study. (D. 12853, 
13083, 13227.) 

University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa: 
Fossil medusse ( 13 specimens) . Gift. 
(D. 13455.) 
Arizona. 

Blake, W. P., Tucson: Rocks (3 speci- 
mens and 1 thin section ) . Exchange. 
(D. 13383.) 
California. 

Brown, H. E., Santa Rosa: Plants (11 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
13208. ) 

California Academy of Sciences, San 
Francisco: Plants (10 specimens); 
bird skins (7 specimens ) . Exchange. 
(D. 13079, 13318.) 



California — Continued. 
Eastwood, Miss Alice, San Francisco: 

Plants (109 specimens). Exchange. 

(D. 12873.) 
Gilbert, C. H., Stanford University: 

Lizards (2 specimens). Lent for 

study. (D. 13286.) 
Grinnell, Joseph, Pasadena: Bird skins 

(104 specimens). Lent for study. 

(D. 13203, 13302.) 
Hemphill, Henry, Oakland: Shells (10 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 13027. ) 
Leland Stanford Junior University, 

Stanford Univer.sity: Skeleton of 

great auk. Exchange. Fossil 

meduste (15 specimens). Gift. 

Japanese fishes (3 bpxes). Lent for 

study. (D. 13330, 13452, 13590.) 
Parish, S. B., San Bernardino: Plants 

(45 specimens). Lent for study. 

(D. 13207.) 
University of California, Berkeley: 

Plant (1 specimen). Exchange. 

(•D. 13540.) 
Colorado. 
Bethel, E., Denver: Plants (81 speci- 
mens.) Exchange. (D. 12880, 

13063. ) 
Cutler, J. E., Denver: Apus equalia (1 

specimen). Exchange. (D. 13610.) 
Hills, R. C, Denver: Meteorites (2 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 13601.) 
Osterhout, George E., New Windsor: 

Plants (10 specimens). Exchange. 

(I). 13113.) 
Public School, Denver: Minerals (57 

specimens, set 199). Gift. (D. 

13642. ) 
State Historical and Natural History 

Society, Denver: Marine inverte- 
brates (288 specimens. Series VI, 

set 93); insects (2,122 specimens); 

fishes (82 specimens); casts of pre- 

119 



120 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Colorado — Continued . 

historic implements (98 specimens); 

bird skins (67 specimens). Gift. 

(D. 13232, 13351, 13352.) 
Connecticut. 
Dana, E. S., New Haven: Portion of 

the Allegan meteorite. Exchange. 

(D. 13170.) 
Eames, E. H., Bridgeport: Plants (10 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 13080. ) 
Hall, Robert W., New Haven: Pcdse- 

monetes (980 specimens). Lent for 

study. (D. 13075, 1.3659.) 
Norton, C. A. Q., Hartford: Lamps 

(9 specimens). Exchange. (D. 

13526.) 
Peabody Museum, New Haven: Fos- 
sil medusae (26 specimens). Gift. 

(D. 13450.) 
State Normal School, New Haven: 

Marine invertebrates ( 288 specimens. 

Series VI, set 92). Gift. (D. 13164. ) 
Wortman, J. L., New Haven: Skull of 

fur seal (1 specimen). Lent for 

study. (D. 13411.) 
Yale LTniversity Museum, New Haven- 

Fossils (710 specimens). Exchange. 

(D. 13653.) 
Delaware. 
Canby, W. M., Wilmington: Plants (21 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 13359, 

13068.) 
District of Columbia. 
Ashe, W. W., AVashington: Plates illus- 
trating turpentine industry. Lent 

for study. (D. 13197.) 
Benjamin, Mrs. Marcus, Washington: 

Porno Indian baskets (2 specimens). 

Exchange. (D. 1.3042.) 
Buffington, A. R., Washington: Arkan- 
sas novaculite (1 specimen). Lent 

for study. (D. 13643.) 
Columbian LTniversity, Washington: 

Marine invertebrates (291 specimens, 

Series VI, set 90). Gift. (D. 13088.) 
Greene, E. L., Washington: Plants (133 

specimens). Exchange. Plants (30 

specimens). Lent for study. (D. 

12862, 13109, 13502, 13604.) 
Hasbrouck, Dr. E. M., Washington: 

Peacock (1 specimen). Exchange. 

(D. 1.3312.) 
Jennings, Foster H., Washington: Na- 
vajo basket (1 specimen); Indian 



District of Columbia — Continued. 

pipe ( 1 specimen) . Exchange. (D. 
12901.) 

Maxon, W. R. , Washington : Bird skins 
(2 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12951.) 

Morris, E. L., Washington: Plants (151 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12874, 
13138.) 

Pollard, Edward, Washington: Arrows 
(6 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12792.) 

Ridgway, Robert, Brookland: Bird 
skins (430 specimens). Lent for 
study. (D. 13634,1.3712.) 

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington: 
Shells (8 specimens). Gift. (D. 
13436. ) 

Wood, N. R. , Washington : Bird skins (4 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 13272.) 
Florida. 

Curtiss, A. H., Jacksonville: Fossil me- 
dusse (385 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 13481.) 
Georgia. 

Gilbert, B. D., Thomasville: Plants (10 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 13501.) 
Illinois. 

Barnes, C. R., Chicago: Plants (157 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12865. ) 

Coulter, J. M., Chicago: Plants (3 speci- 
mens). Exchange. (D. 13611.) 

Dorsey, George A., Chicago: Skull 
from Calaveras County, Cal. ( 1 speci- 
men ) . Lent for study. ( D. 13086. ) 

Elliot, D. G., Chicago: Skulls of seals 
(2 specimens); skulls of mammals 
(2 specimens) ; skulls of bats (2 speci- 
mens). Lent for study. (D. 13487, 
13548, 13714, 13555.) 

Field Columbian Museum, Chicago: 
Portion of meteorite. Exchange. 
Fossil medusae (13 specimens). Gift. 
Alcoholic fishes ( 3 specimens) . Lent 
for study. (D. 13180, 13454, 13530.) 

Herbarium of Chicago University, Chi- 
cago: Plant (1 specimen). Gift. 
(D. 13288.) 

High School, Muncie: Marine inverte- 
brates (288 specimens, Series VI, set 
91). Gift. (D. 13163.) 

Iddings, J. F., Chicago: Rocks (3 speci- 
mens). Exchange. (D. 12834.) 

Johnson, Charles F., Freeport: Plants 



SPECIMENS DISTRIBUTED. 



121 



II lino is — Coiit inued . 

(82 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
13368.) 

Jones, C. H., Springfield: Rocks (30 
specimens). For examination. (D. 
13016.) 

Millspaugh, C. F., Chicago: Plants (291 
specimens). Exchange. Plants (49 
sjiecimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12882, 13137, 13693. ) 

Smallwood, Miss Mabel E., Chicago: 
Marine invertebrates ( 10 specimens). 
For study. (D. 13557.) 

St. Francis Solanus College, Quincy: 
Minerals (57 specimens, set 197). 
Gift. (D. 13381.) 

Umbach, L. M., Naperville: Plants 
(632 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12852, 13105.) 

University of Chicago, Chicago: Fossil 
medusje (14 specimens). . Gift. (D. 
13451.) 

Ward, H. A., Chicago: Section of me- 
teoric iron. Exchange. (D. 13124. ) 
Indiana. 

Ethington, Ernest L., Terre Haute: 
Geological material (11 specimens). 
For examination. (D. 13228. ) 

Public schools, Jonesboro: Marine in- 
vertebrates (291 specimens. Series 
VI, set 89). Gift. (D. 13074.) 
loica. 

Ellsworth College, Iowa Falls: ^liner- 
als (57 specimens, set 196); marine 
invertebrates (288 specimens. Series 
YI, set96). Gift. (D. 13363.) 

Historical Department of Iowa, Des 
Moines: Baskets and models (21 
specimens). Gift. (D. 13165.) 

Pammell, L. H., Ames: Plants (204 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12871.) 

Public school, Odebolt: Casts of stone 
implements (98 specimens, set 69). 
Gift. (D. 13261.) 

Putnam, Mrs. Charles E., Davenport: 
Ethnological material (4 specimens); 
Strike-a-light candlestick. Ex- 
change. (D. 13697, 13534.) 

Simpson College, Indianola: Marine 
invertebrates (10 specimens). Gift. 
(D. 13593.) 

Summer, H. E., Ames: Hemiptera (131 
specimens). Lent for stud v. (D. 
12809.) 



Kansas. 

City Schools, Burlington: Marine in- 
vertebrates (294 specimens, SeriesVI, 
set 86 ) ; marine invertebrates ( Series 
yi,set88). Gift. (D. 12974, 13051.) 

Fairmount College, Wichita: ^larine 
invertebrates (320 specimens. Series 
V, set 100). Gift. (D. 13598.) 

Hitchcock, A. S., Manhattan: Plants 
(627 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12856, 13090.) 

Strickland, Frank P., Kansas City: 
Birds' eggs (7 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 12934.) 
Maine. 

Cushing, Frank H., Haven: Plaster 
casts of stone pipes and carvings (6 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12830. ) 

Good Will Home for Boys, East Fair- 
field: Marine invertebrates (300 spec- 
imens, Series VI, set 84) . Gift. ( D. 
12828. ) 
Maryland. 

McNulty, D. L., Laurel: Wolf skin (1 
specimen). Exchange. (D. 13535. ) 

Woman's College, Baltimore: ^Mounted 
specimen of young polar bear and 
seal; casts of stone implements (98 
specimens, set 68). Gift. Mounted 
mammals (23 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 13556, 12804, 13335.) 
Massachusetts. 

Atwater,W.O., Boston: Materials show- 
ing the composition of the human 
body. Lent for study. (D. 13026.) 

Bangs, Outram, Boston: Biru skins 
(62 specimens). Lent for .study. 
(D. 13245, 13246, 13595.) 

Bigelow School, Marlboro: Geological 
material (5 specimens). Gift. (D. 
13060. ) 

Cummings, ^liss Clara E., Well^^sley: 
Plants (31 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 13343.) 

Deane, Walter, Cambridge: Plants (82 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12857, 
13064, 13630.) 

Doane, R. W., Cambridge: Insects (324 
specimens). Lent for study and 
exchange. (D. 12922.) 

Eastman, C. R., Cambridge: Fossil (1 
specimen); negative of Gar skull. 
Lent for study. (D. 13482, 13532.) 



122 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Massachusetts — Continued . 

Fernald, C. H., Amherst: Moths (25 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
13529. ) 
. Fernald, M. L., Cambridge: Plants (10 
specimens) . Exchange. Plants (55 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
13081, 13539.) 

Frazer, George B., West Medford: 
Magnetic sand. Exchange. (D. 
13434.) 

Gray, G. M., Woods Hole: Crinoids. 
Exchange. (D. 13315.) 

Gray Herbarium, Cambridge: Plants 
(1,097 specimens). Exchange. Plants 
(788 specimens). Lent for study. 
(D. 13216, 13344, 13408, 13605, 13692, 
13698. ) 

Greenman, J. M., Cambridge: Plants 
(5 specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12825.) 

Henderson, L. F., Boston: Plants (12 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
13299, 13682. ) 

High School, Brookline: Casts of stone 
implements (set 71). Gift. (D. 
13446. ) 

Howe, Reginald H., jr., Cambridge: 
Bird skins (29 specimens). Lent for 
study. (D. 13006, 13597.) 

Hyatt, Alpheus, Boston: Shells (1,005 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
13491. ) 

Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Boston: Ores (43 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 13134.) 

Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cam- 
bridge: Crabs (6 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 13049.) 

Robinson, B. L., Cambridge: Plants 
(68 specimens). Exchange. Plants 
(9specimens). Lentforstudy. (D. 
12867, 13136, 13558.) 

Vaughan, A. K., Boston: Infusorial 
earth (11 samples). For examina- 
tion. (D. 13476.) 

Weeks, A. G., jr., Boston: Lepidop- 
tera (32 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 13499.) 
Michigan. 

Clark, Hubert Lyman, Olivet: Ma- 
rine invertebrates (3 specimens) ; 
Holothurians (609 specimens). Lent 
for study. (D. 13001, 13617.) 



Michigan — Continued. 

Holmes, S. J., Ann Arbor: Crabs (3 

specimens). Lent for study. (D.^ 

12975.) 
Reeder, John T. , Calumet: Minerals (11 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 12816.) 
Wheeler, C. F., Agricultural College: 

Plants (52 specimens). Exchange. 

(D. 12851. ) 
Minnesota. 
Heatwole, J. P., Northfield: Pottery 

(60 specimens) ; Indian basketry (7 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 13723. ) 
Holzinger, J. M., Winona: Mosses 

(146 specimens). Exchange. (D. 

12888. ) 
MacMillan, Conway, Minneapolis: 

Plants (75 specimens). Exchange. 

(D. 12883, 13110.) 
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis: 

Fossils (758 specimens). Exchange. 

(D. 12171.) 
Missouri. 
Bush, B. F., Courtney: Plants (87 

specimens). P]xchange. (D. 12876. ) 
Glatfelter, N. M., St. Louis: Plants 

(10 specimens). Exchange. (D. 

13082.) 
Hambach, G., St. Louis: Blastoids 

(1,138 specimens). Lent for study. 

(D. 13009. ) 
Kreite, R., Kansas City: Fossils (126 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 13010. ) 
Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis: 

Living plant. Gift. Seeds (57 pack- 
ets); three photographs; plants (3 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 13166, 

13641.) 
Trelease, William, St. Louis: Plants 

(236 specimens). Exchange. Plants 

(125 specimens). Lent for study. 

(D. 12866, 13111, 13429, 13640.) 
Nebraska. 
Bessey, C. E., Lincoln: Plants (59 speci- 
mens). Exchange. (D. 12877. ) 
Nevada. 
Grout, A. J., Plymouth: Mosses (183 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 12887. ) 
New Hampshire. 
Clough, L., East Concord: Rocks (11 

specimens). Exchange. (D. 13371.) 
Hitchcock, C. H., Hanover: Ores and 

rocks (51 specimens). Exchange. 

(D. 13293.) 



SPECIMENS DISTRIBUTED. 



123 



New Hampshire — Continued. 
Richardson, C. H., Hanover: Blow 

pipe material (30 pounds). Ex- 
change. (D. 13057.) 
New Jersetj. 
Emmons, Lieut. G. T., Princeton: 

Ethnological material (6 specimens). 

Exchange. (D. 13235.) 
Mann, Albert, Belmar: Diatomaceons 

deposits, l^ent forstudy. ( D. 13464. ) 
Princeton University, Princeton: Fossil 

medusse (13 specimens). Gift. 

Skull of tapir, teeth of mastodon and 

rhinoceros. Exchange. (D. 13453, 

13521.) 
Scott, W. B., Princeton: Bird skins (40 

specimens). Lent for study. (D. 

13387.) 
Rusby, H. H., Newark: Plants (16 

specunens). Lent for study. (D. 

12785.) 
New Mexico. 
Cockerell, Theodore D. A., IMesilla 

Park: Plants (3 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 13238.) 
New York. 
American Museum of Natural History, 

New York: Crania of Utah, Navajo, 

and Apache Indians (45 specimens). 

Lent for study. (D. 13215. ) 
Allen, J. A., New York: Glossophaga 

elongaUi (2 specimens). Exchange. 

Bird skins (10 specimens). Lent for 

study. (D. 13632, 13702.) 
Arnold, Mrs. Francis B., New York: 

Foraminifera (5 lots). Lent for 

study. (D. 13579.) 
Bicknell, E. P., Riverdale-on-Hudson : 

Plants (10 specimens). Exchange. 

(D. 13107.) 
Britton, Mrs. E. G., New York: Plants 

(47 specimens). Exchange. (D. 

12861, 12912.) 
Britton, N. L., Bronx Park: Plants (17 

specimens.) Exchange. Plants (271 

specimens). Lent for study. (D. 

13067, 13472, 13512. ) 
Burnham, Stewart II., Vaughns: Plants 

(10 specimens). Exchange. (I). 

13069.) 
Chapman, Frank M., New York: Bird 

skins (320 specimens). Lent for 

study. (D. 12906, 13267.) 



New York — Continued. 

Clute, Willard N., Bronx Park: Plants 
(126 specimens). Lent for study. 
(D. 13115.) 

Cowell, John F., Buffalo: Plants (10 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 13065.) 

Dwight, Jonathan, jr., New York: 
Birds (7 specimens). Lent for 
study. (D. 13614.) 

Eaton, A. A., Seabrook: Plants (134 
specimens). Exchange. Plants (191 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12879, 12948, 13084, 13264, 13304, 
13406, 13463.) 

Ethical Culture Schools, New York: 
Marine invertebrates (300 specimens, 
Series VI, set 55). Gift. (D. 13724.) 

George Junior Republic, Freeville: 
Ethnological material (235 speci- 
mens); marine invertebrates (51 
specimens). Gift. (1.13054.) 

Glen Island Museimi, New Rochelle: 
Casts of fossils (2 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 13364.) 

Hay, O. P., New York: Scale of fossil 
fish. Lent for study. (D. 13382.) 

Heller, A. A., New York: Plants (10 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 13135.) 

Hulst, Rev. George D., Brooklyn: 
Moths (220 specimens). Lent for 
study. (D. 13527, 13633.) 

Kunz, George F., New York: Ores 
(56 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12999. ) 

Manual Training High School, Brook- 
lyn: Marine invertebrates (291 
specimens, Series VI, set 98); casts 
of stone implements (98 specimens, 
set 73). Gift. (D. 13573.) 

New York Botanical Garden, Bronx 
Park: Plants (2 specimens); plants 
from Philippine Islands (92 speci- 
mens). Exchange. Plants (29 speci- 
mens). Lent for study. (D. 13152, 
13369, 13580.) 

Osborn, H. F., New York: Teeth of 
fossil horse (27 specimens). Lent 
forstudy. (D. 13639.) 

Public School No. 3, Yonkers: Marine 
invertebrates (288 specimens. Series 
VI, set 97). Gift. (I). 13433.) 

Rowlee, W. W., Ithaca: Plants (116 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12859, 
13106.) 



124 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



New Yorl- — Continued. 

Small, John K., New York: Plants 
(589 specimens). Exchange. Plants 
(2 specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12870, 13305. ) 

RydVjerg, P. A., Bronx Park: Plants 
(2 specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12979.) 

Underwood, L. M., New York: Plants 
(671 specimens). Lent for study. 
(D. 12S13, 12994, 13117, 13409.) 

Widrig, Robert G., Gerry: Fossils (9 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 13339. ) 
North Carolina. 

Ashe, W. W., Raleigh: Plants (130 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
13503.) 

Beadle, C. D., Biltmore: Plants (927 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12869, 
13070.) 
Ohio. 

Comstock, F. M., Cleveland: Plants 
(121 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12881, 1.3108.) 

Edwards, Charles L., Cincinnati: Hol- 
othurians (1,672 specin^ens). Lent 
for study. (D. 13563.) 

Matlack, Mr., Columbus: One trans- 
parency. Exchange. (D. 13717. ) 

Public schools, Tiffin: Marine inverte- 
brates (316 specimens. Series V, set 
99) ; casts of stone implements (96 
specimens, set 72). Gift. (D. 13566. ) 
Oregon. 

Cusick, William C, Union: Plant (1 
specimen). Exchange. (D. 13362.) 

Sweetzer, Albert R., Forest Grove: 
Plants (11 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12970.) 
Pennsyhcmia. 

Carnegie Institute, Pittsburg: One 
model each of Conestoga wagon, 
American stage coach, American 
colonial chaise, John Bull locomo- 
tive and one car, Japanese jinrikisha, 
Mexican cart and Korean chair. 
Lent for examination. (D. 12932, 
12942, 12992, 13181, 13600, 13670.) 

Crawford, Joseph D., Philadelphia: 
Plants (46 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 13139.) 

Culin, Stewart, Philadelphia: Collec- 
tion of Indian games. Lent for 
study. (D. 13416.) 



Pennsylvania — Continued . 

Ehrmann, George A., Pittsburg: Bee- 
tles and diptera (17 specimens). 
Exchange. (D. 13101.) 

High School, Bradford: Geological and 
paleontological material (28 speci- 
mens). Gift. (D. 13420.) 

MacElwee, Ellis, Philadelphia: Plants 
(10 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
13112.) 

Moore, J. Percy, Philadelphia: Leeches 
(55 specimens). Lent for study. 
(D. 13358.) 

Philadelphia Academy of Sciences, 
Philadelphia: Plants (22 specimens). 
Exchange. (D. 13493.) 

Stone, Witmer, Philadelphia: Bird 
skins (8 specimens); mammals (124 
specimens). Lent for study. Bats 
(2 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12930, 12950, 13609, 13234, 13095.) 

University of Pennsylvania, Philadel- 
phia: Plant (1 specimen). Gift. 
(D. 13291.) 
Rhode Islaiul. 

Collin, J. Franklin, Providence: Plants 
(10 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
13066.) 

Museum of Natural History, Provi- 
dence: Marine invertebrates (288 
specimens. Series VI, set 94) . Gift. 
(D. 13334.) 
South Carolina. 

Anderson, Alexander P., Clemson Col- 
lege: Plants (66 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 12875.) 
Tennessee. 

University of Tennessee, Knoxville: 
Fossil medusre ( 15 specimens) . Gift. 
(D. 13439.) 
Texas. 

Bray, W. L., Austin: Plants (70 speci- 
mens). Exchange. (D. 12858.) 

Marble Falls Academy, Marble Falls: 
Minerals (57 specimens, set 198). 
Gift. (D. 13488.) 

Price, R. H., College Station: Plants 
(14 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
12872. ) 
Utah. 

Jones, Marcus E., Salt Lake City: 
Plants (11 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 13092, 13386.) 



SPECIMENS DISTRIBUTED. 



125 



Vennuiit. 
Hitchcock Library and Mugeuni, West- 
iield: Marine invertebrates (297 
specimens, Series VI, set 87). (Tift. 
(D. 18032.) 
Jones, L. R., Burlington: Plants (84 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12878. ) 
Pringle, C. G., Charlotte: Plants (2 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 13116.) 
Waugh, F. A., BurUngton: Plants (25 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
12955.) 
Virginia. 
Daniel, Joseph W., jr., Lynchburg: 
Birds' eggs (43 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 13204.) 
Riley, J. H., Falls Church. Bird 
skins (6 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12928.) 
University of Virginia, Charlottesville: 
Pottery (32 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12943.) 
Washington. 
Allen, O. D., Ashford: Plant (1 speci- 
men). Exchange. (D. 13361.) 
Flett, J. B.. Tacoma: Plant (1 speci- 
men). Exchange. (D. 13360.) 
University of Washington, Seattle: Fish 
(1 specimen). Gift. (I). 13157.) 
West Virginia. 
Pollock, W. M., Buckhannon: Plants 
(95 si)ecimens). Exchange. (D. 
12868.) 
State Normal School, Shepherdstown: 
^larine invertebrates (291 specimens, 
Series VI, set 95). Gift. (D. 13346.) 
Wisconsin. 
La Crosse High School, La Crosse: Ma- 
rine invertebrates (303 specimens, 
Series VI, set 83). Gift. (D. 12817.) 
Nowlan, Mrs. Oscar F., Jaynesville: 
Minerals ( 30 specimens ) . Exchange. 
(D. 13474.) 
Public School, Eau Claire: ]\Iarine in- 
vertebrates (297 specimens, Series VI, 
set 85). Gift. /D. 12908.) 
University of Wisconsin, Madison: 
Plant (1 specimen). Gift. (D. 
13289.) 
Wi)o)niitg. 
Nelson, Aven, Laramie: Plants (10 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 13089. ) 
University of Wyoming, Laramie: 
Plant (1 specimen). Gift. (D. 
13290.) 



South Amekica. 



ARGENTINA. 



Ruscherveyh, G., Buenos Ayres: Lepi- 
d:)ptera (97 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12794.) 

UK.VZIL. 

Museu Paulista, Sao Paulo: Fossils (172 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 13438.) 

ASIA. 



Prain, David, Bengal: Plants (406 speci- 
mens). Excjiange. (D. 12896.) 

EUROPE. 



Beck, G. von, Vienna: Plants (115 speci- 
mens). Exchange. (D. 12895.) 

Heimerl, Anton, Vienna: Plants (518 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
13314. ) 

Imperial Royal Geological Establish- 
ment, Vienna: Fossil medusa (18 
specimens). Gift. (D. 13471.) 

Royal Bohemian Museum, Prague: Fossils 
( 266 specimens ) ; rocks ( 4 specimens ) . 
Exchange. (D. 13182.) 

Simmer, Hans, Carinthia: Plants (960 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12864.) 

Vrba, K., Prague: Meteorites (2 speci- 
mens), i^xchange. (D. 13538.) 

Woldrich, J. N., Prague: Geological ma- 
terial (6 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
13509. ) 



Royal Museum of Natural History, Brus- 
sels: Fossil medus;e (13 specimens). 
Gift. (D. 13462.) 

DENMARK. 

Warming. Eug. , Copenhagen : Plants ( 159 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12863. ) 



Andre, Ernest, Plaute-Saone: Insects (140 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 13591.) 

Coutiere, H., Paris: Alpheidfe (1,263 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
13524. ) 



126 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Edwards, Prof. A. Milne, Paris: Cave 

insects (11 specimens). Exchange. 

(D. 13048.) 
Gandoger, Michel, Villefranche: Plants 

(135 specimens) . Exchange. (D. 

12892.) 
Mecernier, Stanislaus, Paris: Meteorite 

(1 specimen). Exchange. (D. 

13574.) 
]\Iiguel, Jean, Barrubio, Herault: Fossils 

(681 specimens); stone implements, 

shell beans and fragments of pottery 

(59 specimens). Exchange. (D. 

13528. ) 
Sayeux, L., Paris: Geological material (5 

specimens). Lent for study. (D. 



13034. 



GERMANY. 



Engler, A., Berlin: Plants (152 speci- 
mens). Exchange. (D. 12891.) 

Geological and Paleontological Institute, 
Munich: Fossils (128 specimens). 
Exchange. (D. 13470.) 

Haeckel, Ernst, Jena: Fossil medusae 
(20 specimens). For study. (D. 
13458.) 

Huene, F. von, Tubingen: Fossils (28 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 13423.) 

Kleinschmidt, Otto, Nierstein-on-Rhine: 
Bird skins (2 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 13055.) 

Krantz, F., Bonn: Meteorites (4 speci- 
mens). Exchange. (D. 13627.) 

Lejeune, Adolf, Frankfort: Fossils (226 
specimens) . Exchange. (D. 13417. ) 

Rosenbusch, H., Heidelberg: Rocks (3 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 13313.) 

Royal Zoological Museum, Dresden: 
Skins and skulls of North American 
animals (100 specimens); Indian 
baskets (8 si)ecimens). Exchange. 
(D. 13374, 13720.) 

Schellwein, Ernst, Konigsberg: Fossils 
(709 specimens). Lent for study. 
(D. 13419.) 

GREAT BKrfAIN. 

England. 

Baker, E. G., London: Plants (24 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
13425.) 

Barrrett-Hamilton, G. E. H., London: 
Co-types Mus arianus grisetis ( 2 speci- 
mens). Lent for study. (D. 13375.) 



England — Continued. 

British Museum (Natural History), 
London: Plants (344 specimens). 
Exchange. Fossil medusre (16 speci- 
mens). Gift. Plants (26 specimens); 
moth ( 1 specimen ) . Lent for study. 
(D. 12894, 13644, 13456, 13645, 13686. ) 

Cambridge University, Cambridge: 
Fossil meduspe (16 specimens). Gift. 
(D. 13461.) 

Doyle, W. E., Manchester: Octopus 
(1 specimen). Lent for study. (D. 
13596. ) 

Druery, Charles T., London: Plant (1 
specimen). Exchange. (D. 12788.) 

Horniman Museum, London: Plaster 
casts of stone pipes (9 specimens). 
Exchange. (D. 12855.) 

Lankester, Prof. E. Ray, London: Star- 
nosed mole ( 1 specimen) . For study. 
(D. 13087.) 

Lovett, Edward, Croydon: Pottery (12 
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12803. ) 

Manchester Museum, Manchester: 
Casts (3 specimens); fossils (6 speci- 
mens). Gift. (D. 13422.) 

Mason, G. E., London: Shells (6 speci- 
mens). Exchange. (D. 13205.) 

Parritt, H. W., London: Echinoderms 
and Crustacea (38 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 1.3114.) 

Royal Gardens, Kew: Plants (32 speci- 
mens). Lent for study. Three pho- 
tographs; plants (7 specimens); seeds 
(55 packets). Exchange. (D. 
13143, 13646, 12836, 13647.) 

Sharpe, R. Bowdler, London: Bird 
skins (48 specimens). Lent for 
study. (D. 12940.) 

Thomas, Oldfield, London: Red-backed 
mice (30 specimens); mammal (1 
specimen). Lent for study. Skin 
and skull of opossum. Exchange. 
(D. 12964,13002, 13148.) 
Scotland. 

Balfour, Isaac Bay ley, Edinburgh: 
Plants (149 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12893.) 

University College, Dundee: Alcoholic 
fishes (26 (specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 13377.) 



HOLLAND. 



Jentink, F. A., Leyden: Bats (4 speci- 
mens). Exchange. Bat (1 speci- 
men). Lent for study. (D. 13196.) 



SPECIMENS DISTRIBUTED. 



127 



Civic Museum of Natural History, Milan: 
Fishes (40 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 12799.) 

(^estro, R., Genoa: Zapus (4 specimens). 
Exchange. (D. 13149.) 

.Magretti, Paolo, Milan: Hymenoptera 
(518 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
13581.) 

Mayer, P., Naples: Caprellidse (14 speci- 
mens.) Lent for study. (D. 13511.) 

Zoological Museum, Turin: Crabs ( 3 speci- 
mens) ; Crustacea (8(3 specimens). 
Exchange. (D. 13295, 13522.) 



Zoological Museum, Christiana: Small 
mammals (15 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 13154.) 



Imperial Academy of Sciences, St. Peters- 
burg: Fossil medusae (16 si>ecimens). 
Gift. (D. 13460.) 

Klinge, J., St. Petersburg: Plants (43 
specimens). Lent for study. (D. 
13281.) 

Museum of the Academy of Sciences, St. 
Petersburg: Meadow mice (10 speci- 
mens). Exchange. (D. 13297. ) 

Socoloff, D., Taschla: Cretaceous fossils 
(19 specimens). Exchange. (D. 
13276.) 



Botanical Garden, Upsala: Plants (10 
specimens ) . Exchange. ( D. 1 2824. ) 

Cohner, Teodor, Upsala: Alcoholic worms 
(3 specimens); one slide. Lent for 
study. (D. 13186.) 

Royal Natural History Museum, Stock- 
holm: Fossil medusae (17 specimens). 
Gift. (D. 13457. ) 

SWITZERL.\ND. 

Kathariner, L., Freiburg: Snake (1 speci- 
men). For study. (D. 13301.) 

Narbel, Paul, Cour, Lausanne: Mammals 
(4 specimens); mammal skins and 
skulls (12 specimens). Exchange. 
(D. 13287, 13687.) 

OCEANICA. 

Australasia. 

australia. 

Reed, Walter D., Adelaide, South Aus- 
tralia: Shells (907 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 1.3132.) 

Grant, F. H. McK., Melbourne, Victoria: 
Stone implements (9 specimens). 
Exchange. (D. 13569.) 

NEW ZEALAND. 

C'auterl)ury Museum, Cliristchnrch: Eth- 
nological material (68 specimens). 
Exchange. (D. 13721.) 

Public Museum, Wanganui: Mounted 
mammals (18 specimens). Ex- 
change. (D. 13046.) 



APPENDIX IV. 
Bibliography. 



PUBLICATIONS OF THK MUSEUM. 



ANINUAli UEPOKT. 



Animal Report | of the | Board of Re- 
gents I of the I Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, I showing I the Operations, Ex- 
penilitures, and Condition | of the In- 
stitution I for tlie I Year ending June 



30, 1897. I — I Report | of the | U. S. 
National ^luseuni. | Part 1. | — | 
Washington: | (Tovernment Printing 
Office. I 1899. I 



svo, PI). I-XXVII, 1-1021, pl.s. 150. 



PKOCKKUHNO^ti. 



Smithsonian IiLstitution. | United States 
National Museum. | — | Proceedings | 
of the I United Sta,tes National Mu- 
iieum. I — I Volume xxi. I — | Pub- 



lished under the direction of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, j — | Washington: 
I Government Printing Office. 1 1899. | 
8vo pp. i-xni, l-9:)3, pis. 1-S9. 



mri^L.ETIN. 



Smithsonian Institution. | Unite<l States 
National Museum. | — | Bulletin | of 
the I United States National Museum. — 
No. 47. I — I The Fishes | of | North 
and Middle America: | A descriptive 
catalogue of the species of fish-like ver- 
tebrates found in | the waters of North 
America, north of the Isthmus of 
Panama. | By | David Starr Jordan, 
Ph. D., I President of the Leland Stan- 
ford Junior University and of the | 
California Academy of Sciences, ] 
and I Barton Warren Evermann, Ph. 
D., I Ichthyologist of the United 
■States Fish Con>mission. j Part IV. | 
Washington: | (Toverniufiit rriiitmg 
Office. I 1900. I 

Svo, pp. I-CI, 3137-33l:i, l>ls. I-:«)J. 

Smithsonian Institution. | Unitcil Stati-s 
National Museum. ] — | The Methods 
Employed at the Naples | Zoological 
Station for the Pres- | ervation of Ma- 
rine Animals. | By | Dr. Salvatore Lo 
Bianco. | Translated from the original 
Italian | l)y | Edmund Otis Hovey. | — 



I Part M of Bulletin of the United 
States National Museum, No. 39. | — 
I Washington: | (TOvernment Printing 
Office. I 1899. I 

8vo, pp. [1]-[12J. 1 plfitu. 
Smithsonian Institution. | United States 
National Museum. | — | Directions for 
Prei)aring Study | Specimens of Small | 
Mammals. | By | OerritS. Miller, Jr., | 
Assistant Curator, Division of Mam- 
mals. I — I Part N of Bulletin of the 
United States National Museum, No. 
39. I — I Washington: 
Printing Office. | 1899. 
Svo, pp. [1]-[101. I i\g. 
Smithsonian Institution. | 
Nati(mal Museum. | — | 
Collecting and Rearing | 
Stone Flies, and | May 



Government 



United States 
Directions for 
Dragon Flies, 
Flies. I By | 
James G. Needham, Ph. D., | Lake For- 
est College, Lake Forest, Illinois. | — • | 
Part of Bulletin of the United States 
National Museum, No. 39. 1 — | Wash- 
ington: I Government PrintingOffice. | 
1S99. 

NVO, pp. [l]-[9], ligs. 1-1. 



' TIk' titles of the papers from the Report and Proceedings which were published in separate form 
during the year are given in .\ppendix V. 



NAT MUS 190(J- 



129 



130 



KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



PAPERS BY OFFICERS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM AND 

MATERIAL. 



OTHERS, BASED UPON MUSEUM 



ADLER, Cyrus. The Hebrew collection 
in the National Museum. 

Jewish Comment (Baltimore), X, No. 13, 
Jan. 12, 1900, p. 1. 
ASHMEAD, William H. Description 
of the type of Polyodontoscelis Ashmead. 
Psyche, viii, No. 279, July, 1899, pp. 387, 
388. 
Described Polyodontoscelis cinctifrons, from 
Florida. 

Classification of the Entomophi- 



lous Wasps, or the superfamily Sphe- 
goidea. ( Paper No. 2. ) 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxi, No. 7, July, 
1899, pp. 161-174. 
Treats of the family Oxybelida and part of 
the Crabronidae. Twenty-two genera are 
tabulated, of which 7 are new. The family 
Crabronidse is divided into 5 subfamilies. A 
list of the North American species, arranged 
under their respective genera, as proposed in 
this paper, is also given. 

Classification of the Entomophi- 

lous Wasps, or the superfamily Sphe- 
goidea. (Paper No. 3.) 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxi. No. 8, Aug., 
1899, pp. 212-225. 
Treats of the remaining subfamilies and 
genera of the Crabronidse and of the family 
Pemphredonida;. Thirty-two genera are tab- 
ulated, of which 7 are new. The Pemphre- 
donidee are divided into 2 subfamilies, the 
Pemphredoninse and the Pseninae. 

Classification of the Entomophi- 

lous Wasps, or the superfamily Sphe- 
goidea. (Paper No. 4.) 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxi. No. 9, Sept., 
1899, pp. 238-251. 
Treats of the families Bembicidae and Lar- 
ridae. In the former 5 genera are tabulated, 
while in the latter 4 subfamilies and 38 genera 
are tabulated. Pseudohelioyctcs, new genus, 
is described from Africa. All the North 
American species falling in these families are 
listed. 

Classification of the Entomophi- 

lous Wasps, or the superfamily Sphe- 
goidea. (Paper No. 5. ) 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxi. No, 10, Oct., 
1899, pp. 291-300. 
Treats of the families Philanthidse, Try- 
poxylidse, and MelUnidae. The Philanthidse 
are divided into two subfamilies, the Cer- 
cerin;e and the Philanthinse. In the former 
5 genera are recognized; in the latter 9, of 
which 2 are new, Epiphilanthus and Pseudan- 
thophilus. Ill the Trypoxylidw only 2 genera 
are noted. The family Mellinidse, as here 
defined, contains 8 genera, 4 being new, viz, 
Harpactostigma, Hypomellinus, Mellinogastra. 
and Hapalomrlliniis. The paper terminates 
with a list of the North American species, 



ASHMEAD, William H. Classification 

of the Entomophilous Wasps, or the 

superfamily Sphegoidse. ( Paper No. 6. ) 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxi. No. 11, Nov., 

1899, pp. 322-330. 

Treats of the family Nyssonidse, which is 

divided into 4 subfamilies, Gorytinse, Alyso- 

nlnse, Nyssoninse, and Astatinse. In all, 26 

genera are tabulated, of which 3 are new, 

viz, Pseudoplistis, Argogorytes, and Metanysson, 

All the North American species are listed. 

Classification of the Entomophi- 
lous Wasps, or the superfamily Sphe- 
goidee. (Paper No. 7, conclusion.) 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxi. No. 12, Dec, 
1899, pp. 345-367. 
Treats of the families Stizldse, Sphegidae, 
and Ampulicidse. In the Sphegidae 4 sub- 
families have been recognized, while in the 
Ampulicidse but 2 subfamilies are defined. 
In all, 38 genera are tabulated. A list of all 
the North American species is also given. 

The largest Oak-gall in the world 

and its parasites. 

Entomological News, x. No. 7, Sept., 1899, 
pp. 193-196. 
Describes the gall and gall-maker, Andricus 
{Cynips) clmmpioni Cameron, from Mexico, 
its inquiline, Synergus dugesii, new species, 
and a parasite, Torymus mexicanus, new 
species. 

On the genera of the chalcid-flies 

belonging to the subfamily Encyrtinse. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxn. No. 1202, June 
5, 1900, pp. 323-412. 
Defines the family Encyrtidae and divides it 
into 3 subfamilies, Eupelminse, Encyrtinse, 
and Signiphorinae. After a brief historical 
sketch of the genera of the Encyrtinse, which 
are divided into 4 tribes, viz, Ectromini, En- 
cyrtini, Mirini, and Arrhenophagini, the 
author gives tables for recognizing the genera, 
90 of which are tabulated, 24 being new. The 
paper terminates with a bibliographical and 
synonymical catalogue of 292 species, 38 of 
which are new and are described here for the 
first time. 

Classification of the fossorial, pre- 



daceous, and parasitic wasps, or the 
superfamily Vespoidea. ( Paper No. 1. ) 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxu, No. 5, May, 
1900, pp. 145-155. 
In this great complex, the author recog- 
nizes and tabulates 15 distinct families. The 
first of these, the family Pompilidae, is then 
taken up, and after a brief historical sketch 
of the genera, he gives his view in regard to 
its classification and divides it into 6 sub- 
families, viz, the Pepsinse, AgeniintB, Pompi- 
linse, Planicepinse Notocyphinae, and Cero- 
palinse. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



131 



ASHMEAD, William H. Classification 
of the fossorial, predaceous, and para- 
sitic wasps, or the superfamily Ves- 
poidea. (Paper No. 2.) 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxn, Xo. t;, J une, 

1900. pp. 185-188. 

In this paper the genera of the subfamily 

Pepsinse are tabulated. Fifteen genera have 

been recognized, 3 being new, viz, Trtraodon- 

tonyx, CalopompUus, and Ferreolomorpha. 

ASHMEAD, William H., and SMITH, 
John B. Order Hymenoptera. 

Smith's Insects of New Jersey, 8vo, Trenton. 
N. J., 1900, pp. 501-613. 
The paper contains a list of 1,718 species of 
these insects found in the .State of New Jersey; 
the arrangement of the superfamilies, fami- 
lies, and tribes being in accordance with Mr. 
Ashmead's views on the classification of these 
insects. 

BANGS, OuTRAM. On some new or rare 
birds from the Sierra Nevada de Santa 
Marta, Colombia. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xin, Nov. 11, 1890, 
pp. 91-108. 
An annotated list of 68 species, of which the 
following are new: Pharomachrus fesiatuti, p. 
92; Metallura districta, p. 94; Ochthodixta pci- 
nue, p. 95; Hapalocercus paulus, p. 96; Myio- 
patis montensis, p. 97; Pipreola aureipectus de- 
cora, p. 98; Sclerurus albigularis propinquas, 
p. 99; Conopophaga browni, p. 100; Seytalopus 
latebricola, p. 101; Haplospiza vivaria, p. 102; 
Cinclus rivtdaris, p. 105; Troglodytes mo?iticola, 
p. 106, and Merula olbiveTitris fusa, p. 107. 

The Gray-breasted Wood Wrens 

of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta. 

Proc. X. E. Zool. Club, l, Dec. 27, 1899, pp. 
83,84. 
Two species are here compared, Ueuicorhina 
leucophrys (Tsch.) and H. anachoreta, a new 
form. 

■ On a small collection of birds from 

San Sebastian, Colombia. 

Proc. y. E. Zool. Club, I, Dec. 27, 1899, pp. 
75-80. 
A list of 29 species, with notes. Acestrara 
nstrcans, p. 76, is new. 

A review of the Three-toed Wood- 



peckers of North America. 

Auk, XVII, No. 2, Apr., 1900, pp. 126-142. 
A synopsis of the North American species of 
Picoides. Six forms are recognized, of which 
3 are new, viz, Picoides arcticus tenuirostris. p. 
131; P. ainericanus bacatus, p. 136, and P. a. 
/nbradorius, p. 138. 

Description of a new Rice Grackle. 

Proc. y. E. Zool. Club, ii, June :!0, 1900, 
pp. 11, 12. 
Cassidix oryzivora violea is described as new. 



BANKS, Nathan. The Smynthuridse of 
Long Island, N. Y. 

Journ. y. y. Ent. Soc, vii, .N'o. 3, Sept., 
1899, pp. 193-197. 
A synopsis of 13 species occurring on Long 
Island, of which 6 are new. 

The Psocids from an old snake 



fence. 



Entomological News, x, No. 9, Nov., 1899, 
pp. 260, 261. 
Notes on 4 species. 

— On two genera of Mites. 
Canadian Entomologist, xxxn. No. 2, Feb., 

1900, pp. 30-33. 
Notes on Rhagidia and Lucasiella. 

— A new genus of Atropidse. 

Entonwlogical Xeivs, xi, No. 4, Apr., 1900, 
pp. 431,432, 1 fig. 
Description of Psucinella slossome. 

— Some new North American spi- 



ders. 



Canadian Entomologist, xxxn, No. 4, Apr., 
1900, pp. 431,432, 1 fig. 
Description of 12 new species. 

— The Scorpions, Solpugids, and 



Pedipalpi. Synopses of North Ameri- 
can invertebrates. i.\. 

Am. Saluralist, xxxiv. No. 401, May, 1900, 
pp. 421-427, 4 6gs. 
Tables for the species occurring in the 
United States. 

The red sjiiders of the United 



States {Tetranychus and Stigmasus). 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (Tech- 
nical Series) No. 8, June, 1900, pp. 65-77, 
16 figs. 
A revision of the group. 

New genera and sjiecies of Nearc- 



tic neuropteroid insects. 

Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, xxvi, June, 1900, pp. 
239-259. 
Descriptions of 6 new genera and 44 new 
species. 

BARTSCH, Paul. Aimnodromus tielsoni 
in Iowa. 

Auk, XVI, July, 1899, pp. 276, 277. 
Recording Nel.son's Sparrow for the first 
time for the State of Iowa, the specimen hav- 
ing been collected by the writer. 

An ambitious Hummer. 



Osprcy, IV, No. 1, Sept., 1899, p. 14. 
This is the first record of the Ruby-throated 
Humming bird laying three eggs. The Tust 
was found in the District of Columbia by the 
writer. 



132 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



BARTSCH, P.vri.. [Review of] Butler's 
Birds of Indiana. 

Ouprey, IV, No. 1, Sept., 1899. p. Ifl. 

The first record of Tnrdns swainsoni 

in Russia. 

Osprcy, IV, No. 5, Jan., 1900, p. 79. 
A translation from the German of N. von 
Ssomaw. 

[Review of] On the Birds' High- 
way. By R. Weber Howe. 

. Osprey, iv, No. 5, Jan., 1900, p. SO. 
A note on birds observed on 



women's hats in a street car. 

Osjrrey, iv, No. 7, Mar., 1900, p. 111. 

[Review of] Birds Afield. By 



Keeler. 

Osprey, iv. No. 7, Mar., 1900, p. 112. 
[Review of] Bird Studies with a 



Camera. By F. M. Chapman. 

Osprey, iv, No. 10, June, 1900, p. 157. 

Birds of the road. 

Osprey, iv. No. 5, Jan., 1900, pp. 65-67, 2 
figs.; No. 6, Feb., 1900, pp. 81-83, 2 figs.; 
No. 7, Mar., 1900, pp. 99-101, 2 figs.; No. 
8, Apr., 1900, pp. 114-118, 4 figs.; No. 9, 
May, 1900, pp. 131-134, 3 figs.; No. 10, 
June, 1900, pp. 145-149, 7 figs. 
This series of popular articles discusses the 
birds of Washington and its vicinity. Fig- 
ures of the common form.s and photographs 
of nests with eggs and young accompany the 
articles. 

BEAN, Baeton A. (See under H. M. 
Smith. ) 

BISHOP, Louis B. Descriptions of three 
new birds from Alaska. 

Auk, XVII, No. 2, Apr., 1900, pp. 113-120. 
Canachites canadensis osgoodi, p. 114; Say- 
ornis saya yukunensis, p. 115, and Contopits 
richardsonit saturatus, p. 116, are described as 
new. Critical notes on Pants hudsonicns 
evura and Hylocichla ustulatus alvur are added. 

CAUDELL, Andkkw N. A new species 
of S'nu'ii. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxii. No. 3, 
Mar., 1900, pp. 67,68. 
Describes Sinca crmiplexa, from California. 

CHITTENDEN, Frank H. Insect ene- 
mies of the white pine. 

Bidl. Div. Forestry, U. S. Dept. Agric., No. 
22: reprint, Sept. 23, 1899, pp. 55-61, figs. 
5-15. 
A short general account of the more im- 
portant insc(;ts aiTecting IHnus strubus, includ- 
ing a list of others known to attack this tree. 
Two of the illustrations are original. 



CHITTENDEN, Fr.vnk H. The Bronze 
Apple-tree Weevil [Magdalis senescent 
Lee.). 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series), No. 22, Feb. 20, 1900, pp. 37-14, 
figs. 25, 26. 
(Joneral account in connection with recent 
injury to trees in Washington State, includ- 
ing approximate life history with biologic 
notes by C. V. Piper, and the relation of at- 
tack to that of Macrophoma curvispora, the 
conclusion being that the fungus is probal)lv 
the primary cause of injury. Two original 
illustrations. 

Insects and the weather: Obser- 



vations during the season of 1899. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series), No. 22, Feb. 20, 1900, pp. 51-64. 
A consideration of the effects of weather 
upon the increase and decrease of injurious 
in.sects, with particular reference to results 
following the cold winter of 1898-99. The 
Ijaper includes a con.sideration of the life 
zones about the District of Columbia; a list of 
species. Indicating the southern character of 
its insect fauna; lists of southern species 
which were appreciably lessened as a conse- 
quence of cold snaps, and of the correspond- 
ing increase of northern species in the same 
latitude; observations on species common to 
both North and South which were, as a rule, 
not materially affected; comparisons with 
results of the cold on insects in other States, 
and speculations as to the probable increase 
or decrease of certain of these insects during 
following seasons, etc. 

Food plants and injury of North 

American species of Agrilus. 

Bidl. Div. Ent., U. S. Dipt. Agric. (new 
series), No. 22, Feb. 20, 1900, pp. 64-68. 
Special mention of Agrilus anxius, A. oliosus, 
and A. bilineatiis, with list of 22 species, with 
food plants and references. 

On the recent spread of the Medi- 



terranean Flour Moth {Ephestia kuehn- 
iella). 

Bull. Div. Eat., U. S. Dept. Agric. mew 
series). No. 22, Feb. 20, 1900, pp. 97, '.w. 
A brief review of reported invasion of flour 
mills by Ephestia kuehniella in North America, 
with account of outbreak at St. Paul, Minn. 

Note on two species of Lightning 



Hoppers. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new se- 
ries). No. 22, Feb. 20, 1900, pp. 98, 99. 
Biological observations on Ormenis (Paci- 
loptera) pruinosa and Chlorochroa (Flata) co- 
iiira, withmentionof new food plants for both 
species. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



188 



CHITTENDEX, FRANK 11. Biologic 
observations on Harpaluspennsylvanicufi 
DeG. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dcpf. Agric. (new se- 
ries), No. 22, Feb. 20, 1900, pp. 100-104. 

A note on the Cocklebur Bill-bug. 



Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new se- 
ries), No. 22, Feb. 20, 1900, pp. 101, 105. 
.\ review of food plants of Khodobienus 
}.i-imnctcUns 111., with additions and biologic 
notes. 

— - A new vine borer of lima beans 



{MouoptUota nuhilellu Hulst). 

Hull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept. Agric. (new .se- 
ries). No. 23, May 7, 1900, pp. 9-17, fig. 1. 
A general aecoiint of this species, with tech- 
nical descriptions of the genus and species 
(after Hulst) and of the earlier stages by the 
writer. One original illustration. 



The Smaller Corn - stalk Borer 

{Elwtmopalpus Ugnosellus Zell. ). 

BtiM. Div. Ent, V. S. Dept. Agric. (new se- 
ries), No. 23, May 7, 1900, pp. 17-22, figs. 
2-4. 
.K general account, including mention of 
new food plants, new localities, and one orig- 
inal and two adapted illustrations. 

The Pale-striped Flea-beetle (Sys- 

tena blanda Mels. ) . 

BuU. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 

series). No. 23, May 7, 1900, pp. 22-29, 

figs. 5, 6. 

A full, general account of this species, with 

original records, other observations, and two 

original illustrations. 

Observations of the Bean Leaf- 



beetle {Ceratomd irifurcata Forst. ). 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
.series). No. 23, May 7, 1900, pp. 30, 31. 
Additional notes on injuries, etc. 

Notes on the Imbricated Snont- 



lieetle {Epicsei'us imbricatus Say). 

Bxdl. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 

series), No. 23, May 7, 1900, pp. 31, 32, 

fig. 7. 

Supplementary observations to a former 

paper, with an original illastration of a 

fungus-infected beetle. 

A newTingitid on bean ( Gargaphia 

nngulata Held.). 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series), No. 23, May 7, 1900, pp. 32, 33, 
fig. 8. 
A short account, with one original illustra- 
tion. 



( "II ITTEX I )lvN, Fkaxk H. The dcstni.- 
tive Green-pea Louse {NecUtrophord 
destructor Johns. ). 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric (now 
series). No. 23, May 7. 1000, ]•]>. :53-37, 
fig. 9. 
A general account, with particular refer- 
ence to reported injuries supplementary to 
tho.se reported by Johnson in Bulletin No. 20, 
pp. 94-99. One original illustration. 

A note on the Mexican Bean Wee- 



vil {Spennophagus pectoralis Sharp). 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 

.series). No. 23, May 7, 1900, pp. 37, 38, fig. 

10. 

Notes supplementary to two former papers, 

with a quotation from a publication of 1858, 

showing the probability of this species I)eing 

synonymous with S. se7nifascialus. 

The Cabbage Curculio ( Ceutorhyn- 

cJms rapx Gyll. ). 

BuU. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 

series). No. 23, May 7, 1900, pp. 39-50, figs. 

11,12. 

A general economic article, including a 

practically complete account of the insect's 

life history, with two original illustrations. 

The species is identified as the European C. 

rapie. 

Remarks on the food habits of 



species of Ceutorhynchus. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series). No. 23, May 7, 1900, pp. 60-53. 
Biologic notes on 5 European and 6 native 
or introduced American species of the genus. 

Additional notes on the Imported 

Cabbage Web- worm {Helhda undalis 
Fab.). 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series), No. 23, May 7,1900, pp. 63-61, fig. 
13. 
Includes a consideration of new localities 
and additional literatuise, with other observa- 
tions looking toward a more complete account 
of this species. 

The Common Rhubarb Curculio 



( Lixius concavus Say ) . 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series), No. 23, May 7, 1900, pp. f.l-G9, figs. 
14-16. 
A rather full general economic account, 
with three original figures. 

The Strawberry Flea-beetle {Hdl- 

tica ignita 111.). 

Bull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series). No. 23, May 7, 1900, pp. 70-78, 
figs. 17, 18. 
A general economic account of this species 
with two original illustrations. 



184 



REPUKT Oi' NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



CHITTENDEN, Frank H. The Fall 
Army worm in 1899 {Laphygma frugi- 
perda S. and A.). 

BtUl. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Ar/ric. (new 
' series), No. 23, May 7, 1900, pp. 78-86, 

lig. 19. 
A preliminary account with particular ref- 
erence to reported injuries during 1899. -One 
original illustration. 

The Strawberry Crown Moth 



[Sesia rutilans Hy. Edw. ). 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series), Ko. 28, May 7, 1900, pp. 85-90, 
lig. 20. 
A general account, with one original figure, 

The Black Gooseberry Borer 



( Xylocrius agassizii. Lee. ) . 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 

series). No. 23, May 7, 1900, pp. 90-92, 

figs. 21-23. 

A short general account based on notes 

received through Dr. James Fletcher, and iui 

account published by him in his report for 

the year 1898 (pp. 207-210). 

CLARKE, Frank W., and STEIGER, 
George. Experiments relative to the 
constitution of pectolite, pyrophyllite, 
calamine, and analcite. 

Am. Journ. ScL, VIII, 1899, p. 24.5. 

■ The action of ammonium chloride 



upon analcite and leucite. 

Am. Journ. ,Sci., ix, 1900, p. 117. 

The action of ammonium chloride 



upon natrolite, scolecite, prehnite, and 
pectolite. 

Am. Journ. Sci., ix, 1900, p. 34.'i. 

CLARKE, John M. The Paleozoic 
faunas of Para, Brazil. 1. The Silurian 
fauna of the Rio Trombetas. 2. The 
Devonian Mollusca t)f the State of Para. 

Archivos de Museit, Nacional de Rio de 
Janeiro, x, 1899. Author's English edi- 
tion, Albany, N. V., 1900, pp. 1-127, 
pis. 1-8. 
The Silurian fauna. Dr. Clarke writes, " is a 
middle Silurian one, though a quite different 
association of species from that described 
from the island of Anticosti as middle Silurian 
by M. Billings." 

The .second j^art treats of the Devonian 
mollusca of the State of Para and completes 
the description of the Para fauna by Messrs. 
Ch. Fred Harttand Richard Rathbun. Some 
of th^ illustrated material is in the U. S. 
National Museum. 



CLARKE, John M.,and SCHUCHERT, 
Charles. The nomenclature of the 
New York series of geological forma- 
tions. 

Science (new series), x, Dec. 15, 1899, pp. 
874-878. 
The American standard Paleozoic section is 
here redefined and brought up to date. 

COOKE, George H. Te Pito Te Henua, 
known as Rapa Nui; commonly called 
Easter Island, South Pacific Ocean. 

Bep. Smitlisonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1897 (1899) , pp. 689-723. 

COQUILLETT, Daniel W. New genera 
and species of Nycteribidse and Hippo- 
boscidse. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxi, No. 11, Nov., 
1899, pp. 333-336. 
Describes 2 new genera and 3 new species 
of Nycteribidse, gives a synoptic table of the 
North American genera of the fully winged 
Hippoboscida;, 2 of which are new, and de- 
scribes 1 new species. 

Notes and descriptions of Trype- 

tidae. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vii, No. 4, Dec, 
1899, pp. 2.59-268. 
Describes 1 new genus and 17 new species, 
gives synonymical notes and generic refer- 
ences of several other species, and concludes 
with a synoptic table of the 23 genera wliich 
occur ill the United States. 

Two new Cecidomyians destruc- 
tive to the buds of roses. 

BuU. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series). No. 22, Feb. 20, 1900, pp. 44-48. 
Gives the habits, distribution, and descrip- 
tion of 2 new species, and figures 1 of them, 
for which a new genus is erected. 



- — - A new violet pest. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series). No. 22, Feb. 20, 1900, pp. 48-51. 

Gives the habits, together with a descrii)tion 
and figure, of a new species of Diploni:^. 

New genera and species of Ephy- 



dridse. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxii. No. 2, Feb., 
1900, pp. 33-36. 
Describes 2 new genera and 7 new species. 



Notes and descriptions of Ortalidse.. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, viii, No. 1, March, 
1900, pp. 21-25. 
Describes 1 new genus and 10 new species, 
with synonymical notes and generic refer- 
ences of several other species. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



135 



COQUILLETT, Daniel W. Two new 
genera of Diptera. 

Entomological News, xi, No. 4, April, 1900, 
pp. 429, 430. 
Describes 2 new genera and 2 new species, 
with n figure of the head and wing of one of 
them. 

Report on a collection of dipterouH 

insects from Porto Rico. 

I'roc. U. S. Nai. Mas., xxn, No. 1198, May 
12, 1900, pp. 249-270. 
Gives a list, with localities, dates of cap- 
ture, and general distribution, of 117 species 
of Diptera collected by Mr. August B\isck, of 
the U. S. Department of Agriculture. Three 
of the genera and 16 of the species are de- 
scribed as new. 

New Scenopinidse from the United 

States. 

Entomological News, xi, No. t;, June, 1900, 
p. 500. 
Gives a synoptic table of the 3 genera, 1 of 
which is new, and describes 2 new species. 

■ Description of a new parasitic 

tachinid fly from Ceylon. 

Indian Museum Notefs, iv, 1899, p. 279. 
Describes and figures a new species of 
Exorista. 

COULTER, John M. (See under J. N. 
Rose. ) 

CURRIE, RoLLA Patteson. New species 
of North American Myrmeleonidse V. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxi, No. 12, Dec, 

1899, pp. 361-365. 

Describes for the first time the male of 

Brachynenmrus tuberculatus Banks, and gives 

descriptions of 2 new species of the .same 

genus, B. papago and B. pusillus. 

DALL, W. H. Synopsis of the Solenidte 
of North America and the Antilles. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxn. No. 1185, Oct. 
9, 1899, pp. 107-112. 

This synopsis shows the species of the region 
referred to and the groups to which they 
belong, with sjTionyms. 

Ensis minor, E. californicus, and ,Solai mex- 
icaiiug are described as new; Eiisis directus 
Conrad is substituted for Ensatdla americana 
Beck, a later name in common ase, and 
Psammosokn Risso, not Hup6, for the later 
Macha of Oken. Some supplementary notes 
to the author's Synopsis of the Psammobiida-, 
1898, are added, in which the genus iVbra- 
culina Benson is redefined, a new section, 
Clunaculu7H Dall, proposed, and a new species, 
Tagelus poeyi Dall, from Cuba is described. 



DALL, W. H Synopsis of the American 
species of the family Diplodontidae. 

Journ. Conchology, ix. No. 8, Oct., 1899, pp. 
244-246. 
This synopsis exhibits the groups into which 
this family is divided, the genera already 
described and their synonyms. Section Fc- 
laniella Dall, based on Felania usta Gould, and 
section Pldyctiderma Dall, based on Diplodonta 
stmiaspcra Philippi, are described as new. 
Diplodonta verrillii Dall is proposed as a new 
name for D. turgida Verrill and Smith, not 
Conrad; D. semirugosa Dall is proposed as a 
new name for D. semiaspera Carpenter, not of 
Philippi. Diplodonta platensis, from Argen- 
tina, is described as new. 

The moUusk fauna of the Pribilof 

Islands. 

The Fur Seals and Fur Seal Islands of the 
North Pacific Ocean, Partni, 1899 (Nov.), 
pp. 539-546, and map. 
This paper discusses the distribution of 
mollusks in Bering Sea and vicinity and its 
causes, the characteristics of the littoral 
fauna, and those of the very distinct plateau 
fauna of the offshore shallows of Bering Sea. 
Lists of the species known to inhabit the 
Pribilof and Commander islands are given, 
followed by -an enumeration of the fossil 
mollusks of St. Paul Island. The map shows 
the summer and winter southern limits of 
pack ice, and the direction of currents of the 
sea bearing upon the distribution of animal 
life in this region. 

■ Note on Sigaretus oldroydii. 

Nautilus, XIII, No. 8, Dec, 1899, p. 85. 
Notes the discovery of the adult form of 
this species, and describes its characters from 
specimens dredged at Drakes Bay, California, 
by J. S. Arnheim. 

Origin of the mutations of Ostrea. 

Nautilus, xiii. No. 8, Dec, 1899, pp. 91-93. 
Reprint of a discussion of this subject in 
Transactions of the Wagner Free Institute of 
Science, iii, part iv, 1898. 

A new species of Capnlnx from 

California. 

Nautilus, XIII, No. 9, Jan., 1900, p. 100. 
Describes Capiilus californicus as new, from 
a specimen dredged in 20 fathoms off San 
Pedro. In a note attention is called to the 
iepionic shell of PHricola. 

Note on Petricolu denticulata Sow^- 



erby. 

Nautilus, XIII, No. 11, Mar., 1900, pp. 121, 
122. 
Shows that the nepionic shell of P. denticu- 
lata is identical with Carpenter's Psephis tel- 
limyalis, and aftergrowth has taken place and 
the shell is adult, the dark colors of the larval 
shell fade out entirely. 



130 



RP:P0RT of national museum, I!H)0. 



DALL, W. II. Nott's oil thf Ti-rtiary 
fjeology of Oiiliu. 

Jinll. Gttil. Six: Aiii<>:,xx, Mar., liHX), i>p. 
57-GO. 
Records observations on the raised reefs and 
terraces of Onhu, and concludes that, vvitli the 
exception of certain beds very near the sea 
level, the formations referred to are of Ter- 
tiary age. 

A new speciea of Lima. 

yauiUiis. XIV, No. 2, June, 1900, pp. l'>,li'.. 

A new species of the type of Limn r.rc.nvi/d, 

from clays picrcc<i by the city tunnels of Los 

Angeles, Cal., is described under the name of 

IJnui hamlini. It is probably Plio<cne. 

Aliiskan notes. 

Xation, I.xi.x, No. 1781, Aug. 17, 1S99, p|i. 
127, 128. 
A summary account of the apparent I'hanges 
in conditions on the Alaskan coast since 1895. 

Iiiil)ressions of Honolulu. 

Nation, LXix, No. 1792, Nov. 2, 1899, pp. 331, 
332. 



An account of the conditions existing in 
Oahu during the summer of 1899, and the 
changes indicated since earlier days, espe- 
cially in the flora and fauna. 

Alaska and the Klondike. 

Science (new scries). No. 200, Dec. 22, 1899, 
pp. 929,930. 
Review of Heilprin's work of the name 
cited. 

[Review of] Preliminary report on 

the geology of Louisiana. 

Science (new series), xi. No. 280, May 11, 
1900, pp. 74.5, 746. 
Review of I'rof. G. D. Harris's report of the 
above name. 

Note on a new abyssal limpet. 

Science (new series) , xi, No. 284, June 8, 
1900, p. 914. 
Account of a peculiar deep-.sea limpet, 
Balhysciudium conicum D. and F., and its 
anatomy. 

Additions to the insular land shell 



faunas of the Pacific coast, especially of 
the Galapagos and Cocos islands. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. I'hila., 1900, pp. 8.s- 
106. 

This paper may be regarded as supplement- 
ing one on the .same subject in the Proeeed- 
nigs of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 
Philadelphia for 1896, pp. 395-197. It enu- 
merates the species collected by the Stanford 
expedition to the Galapagos and Cocos islands 
and by others at various localities along the 
shore from Panama northward. 

liulimulus fnodgrasui, Bulinmlus approxima- 
tus, BzUimulus tioodensis, VUrea actinophora, 



DALL, W. H.— Continued. * 

and Kndodmita htileri (from the Galapagos^ 
arc described as new, and a species previously 
described and ligurcd but not named is now 
named BuUmulus indeJntigahiUs. 

Trochomurpha bauH is changed to Ouppya 
hauvi and Leptinaria eliathamensis to Torna- 
Irllina rliutlnuiirin'i.^. From Cocos Island Giij)- 
pi/a l)opJ;in.si, Lepiinaria mnrtensi, and Vertiijo 
rocoseims are described as new. Other new 
forms are Epiphragmophora leucantliea from 
(^crros Island, E. crassula from Natividad 
Island, E. guadalupensis from Guadalupe 
Island, Epiphragmophwa catalinx from Cata- 
liiia Island, E. Clementina from San Clementc 
Island, and E. orcutli from Lower California. 
The new forms are figured on Plate ^711. 



DYAR, Harrison G. 
Notodonta georgica. 



Life liistorv of 



Entomological News, x, No. 7, Sept., 1899, 
pp. 202-204. 

A new genus of Cochlidiidae from 

Virginia. 

Journ. N: Y. Ent. Sac, vii. No. 3, Sept., 
1899, pp. 208, 209. 
Describes the genus Isochxtes. 

Life history of a European slug 



caterpillar, Cochlidion avellana. 

Journ. N. r. Ent. Soc, vn. No. 3, Sept., 
1899, pp. 202-208, pi. Y, figs. 1-13. 

A new Plagodis (P. approximaria) . 



Canadian Entomologist, xxxi. No. 9, Sept., 
1899, p. 266. 

- Description of the larva of Hadena 



miseloides. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxx, No. 10, Oct., 
1899, p. 286. 

Life histories of New York slug 

caterpillars. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vil. No. 4, Dec, 
1899, pp. 234-253, pis. VI- VIII. 
Concluding remarks on the New York 
Cochlidiidse. 

Description of the mature larva of 



Acronyda connecta. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, vii, No. 4, Dec, 

1899, p. 253. 

A note on African Limacodida;. 

Ent. Tidsk., XX, No. 4, 1899, pp. 231, 232. 

Bomhyx cunea Dru. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxii. No. 1, Jan., 

1900, p. 16. 

Short note in a discussion on this species, 
started by Rev. Dr. Fyles. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



187 



YAR, Harrison (i. A new cochlidiaii 
(if the ijalii-arctic gnmp. 

Entomological Xcwx, w.^it. \. Jan., I'.MK), 
pp. a^, 334. 
I lesoribes Tortrindiii Jishditu. 

Notes on some \orth American 



Yponomeutida?. 

Canadinn Entomolof/isl, xxxii, No. 2, Feb., 
1900, pp. 37-41 : N(i. 3, Miir., 1900, pp. 84-80. 
Synoptic tabk'.^; amniibliography ni Nortti 
Amerioan speoios. 

On the larvte of Atnuiiinni and 



some other sawflies. 

Joiirn. X. r. Eat. 8o<-.. vin, No. 1, Mai.. 
1900, pp. 26-31. 

A new zygsenid from Arizona. 

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc, VIIT, No. 1, Mar., 
1900, p. 32. 
Describes Gingla kiierculx. 

Preliminary notes on tlie larva^ of 



the genus Arctia. 

Journ. N. V. Ent. Soc, vni, No. 1, Mar., 
1900, pp. 34-47. 

Life history of Margarodes flegia. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxii, No. 4, Apr., 
1900, p. 117. 

The larva of EustrLda pupnht. 

< 'anadinn Entomologist, xxxil. No. 5, May, 
1900, p. 155. 

Larvfe from Hawaii. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxii. No. 5, May, 
1900, p. 156. 
NotesonSlarvsefrom the Hawaiian Islands. 

Life histories of North Ameriean 



Cieometrida?, ii-xii. 

Psyche, vin, No. 279, July, 1899, pp. 386, 387; 
No. 280, Aug., 1899, pp. 395, 396; No. 281, 
Sept., 1899, pp. 407, 408; No. 282, Oft., 1899, 
pp. 415, 416; No. 283, Nov., 1899, p. 429; 
No. 284, Doc, 1899, p. 438; IX, No. 285, 
Jan., 1900, pp. 9, 10; No.285, Jan.,1900, pp. 
10,11; No. 286, Feb., 1900, pp. 21, 22; No. 
289, May, 1900, pp. 59, 60; No. 290, June, 
1900, pp. 69. 70. 

EYERMANN, Barton Warren, and 
^L\RSH, Millard Calkb. Descrip- 
tions f)f new genera and species of 
fishes from Porto Rico. 

Rep. U. S. Fish Com., 1899, pp. 351-362. 

In this paper the authors describe as new 3 
genera and 20 species of fishes whicli were ob- 
tained in January and February, ]S99, Ijy the 
steamer Fish Hnick. 

The types are depo.sited in tlie National 
Mu.scum. 



FLINT, Ja.mksM. Rereiit Foraminifera. 
A descriptive catalogue of spet'imens 
dredged by the U. S. Fish Commission 
steamer Alhatross. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. {U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1897 (1899), pp. 249-349, pis. 1-80. 
The material here catalogued is chiefly 
from the North Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf 
of Mexico. Tlie figures are from photographs 
of mounted specimens enlarged about lifteen 
diameters. An analytical key to families and 
genera is given; also descriptions of families, 
genera, and species. 

< rANE, Henry Stewart. Some Neocene 
corals of the United States. 

Proc. U. S. Xiit. Mus., xxii. No. 1193, Apr. 
20, 1900, pp. 179-198, pi. xv. 

(tIRTY", George H. Devonian and Car- 
boniferous fossils of the Yellowstone 
National Park. 

Monogr. U. S. Gad. Surv.. xxxii, Sept., 

1899, pp. 479-599, pis. 66-71. 

Describes the Devonian and Carboniferous 

fossils occurring in the Yellowstone National 

Park. All of the material is in the National 

Museum. 

Preliminary report on Paleozoic 

invertebrate fossils from the region of 
the ]\IcAlester Coal Field, Indian Ter- 
ritory. 

mh Ann. Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv., 1899, pp. 
639-000, pis. 70-72. 
Describes the Lower Helderberg and Car- 
boniferous material and lists the Ordovician 
species of the McAlester-Lehigh Coal Field, 
Indian Territory. All of the material is in 
the National Museum. 

1 HAY, 0. P. Descriptions of two new 
species of tortoises from the Tertiary of 
the United States. 

Proc. V. S. Nat. Mus., xxii. No. 1181, Oct. 7, 
1899, pp. 21-24, pis. iv-vi. 

! Description of some vertel urates of 

the carboniferous age. 

I Proc. Am. Philosoph. Soc, xxxix, 1900, 

j No. 161, pp. 96-123, pi. 7. 

HAY, W. P. Synopses of North Amer- 
I ican invertebrates, vi. — The Astacidse 
of North America. 

! Am. Naturalist, xxxiii, No. 396, Dec, 

1899 (1900), pp. 957-966, 1 text tig. 
The species found on the wliole continent 
of North America are included. Two lists 
are given, one in which the species are ar- 
ranged in natural groups with their geo- 
graphical distribution indicated, and the 
other an artificial key for the ready determi- 
nation of species. 



138 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



HAY, W. V. Description of two new 
species of crayfish. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxii, No. 1187, Oct. 

11, 1899, pp. 121-123, 2 te.xt figs. 

Two new species of erayfl.sh {Cambarus 

pilosus and C. clypcatus) from Kansas and 

Mississippi, respectively, are described and 

figured. 

HOLMES, William H. A preliminary 
revision of the evidence relating to 
auriferous gravel man in California. 

Am. Anthropologist (new series), I, Part i, 
Jan., 1899, pp. 107-120; Part ii, Oct., 
1899, pp. 614-645. 

HOUGH, Walter. Oriental influences 
in Mexico. 

Am. Anthropologist (new series), ii. No. 1, 
Jan.-Mar., 1900, pp. 66-74. 
This paper points out the great influx of 
oriental arts and products into Mexico sub- 
sequent to the discovery of the Philippines. 

HOWARD, Lelani) O. Spider bites and 
' ' Kissing bugs. ' ' 

Appleton's Popular Science Monthly, Nov., 
1899, LVI, No. 1, pp. 31-42, 7 figs. 
Gives an account of the newspaper scare of 
the summer of 1899 in regard to the insects 
popularly known as kissing bugs; describes 
the habits of 7 species of heteropterous insects 
concerned in the comparatively small num- 
ber of bites which gave rise to the scare. 

A remedy for gadflies; Porchin- 

ski's recent discoveries in Eussia, with 
some American observations. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series). No. 20, Nov., 1899, pp. 24-28. 
Showing how Porchinski has discovered 
that gadflies (Tabanidse) frequent pools of 
water for drinking purposes and are captured 
and destroyed by a kerosene film on the sur- 
face of the water; showing also how the 
writer had discovered this same drinking 
habit and mentioned it in his original ac- 
count of an experiment against mosquitoes, 
in Insect Life, vol. v, p. 13. 

The present status of the Caprifig 

experiments in California. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series),No. 20, Nov.,1899, pp 28-35. Re- 
printed in Scientific American Supple- 
ment, Feb. 3, 1900, pp. 20144,20146. 
An account of the introduction and estab- 
lishment of Blastophaga grossorum at Fresno, 
Cal., under the auspices of the U. S. Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, together with a brief re- 
view of the habits of the insect and the fer- 
tilization of the figs in oriental regions. 



HOWARD, Lelani) O. Report of the 
entomologist for 1899. 

Kep. Secy. Agric, 1899, pp. 43-52 (Dec, 

1899). 

An account of the work of the Division of 

Entomology for the fiscal year ending June 

30, 1899, with recommendations concerning 

future work. 

An interesting case of the use of 



insects as food. 

Scientific American, Feb. 3, 1900, p. 71. 
An account of the use of the "Bugong 
Moth" [Agrotis infusa Boisduval) by the na- 
tives of Australia. 

The two most abundant Piilvina- 



rias on maple. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series), No. 22, Feb. 20, 1900, pp. 7-23, 17 
figs. 
Full biology of Pulvinaria innumerabilis 
Rathvon and P. acericola Walsh and Riley. 

The insects to which the name 



" Kissing bug" was applied during the 
summer of 1899. 

Bull. Div. Ent, U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series), No. 22, Feb. 20, 1900, pp. 24-30, 7 
figs. 

General notes and notes from i^or- 



respondence. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new 
series), No. 22, Feb. 20, 1900, pp. 93-109. 
A number of unsigned notes. 



Progress in economic entomology 

in the United States. 

Yearbook U. S. Dept. Agric, 1899, June 1, 
1900, pp. 135-156, 1 pi. 
Account of the development of economic 
entomology during the present century. 

A new genus of Aphelinina> from 



Chile. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxii, Juiu', 1900, 
pp. 167, 168. 
Description of Aphytisn. g., chilensis, u. sp. 

HOWARD, Leland O., and MARLATT, 
C. L. The original home of tlie San 
Jose scale. 

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric (new 
.series). No. 20, Nov., 1899, pp. 36-38. 
Discusses the different theories as to the 
original home of the San Jose scale, and con- 
cludes that nothing more definite can be said 
with certainty than had already been said in 
Bulletin No. 3 (new series). Division of En- 
tomology, U. S. Department of Agriculture, 
by the authors. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



139 



HOWE, Reginald Hebeu, Jr. Ranges of 

Hyloclchla fuscescem, and Hylocichla 

fuscescens .mlicicold in North America. 

Auk, XVII, No. 1, Jan., 1900, pp. 18-25. 

A revision of the geographi'i'al distribution 

of these forms in North America. 

North American Wood Frogs. 

Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., xxvill. No. 
14, pp. 369-374. 
A critical review of the group, based in part 
upon material belonging to the National 
Museum. 

KELLOGG, Vernon L. A list of the Bit- 
ing Lice (Mallophaga) taken from birds 
and mammals of North America. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxii, No. 1183, Oct. 
9, 1899, pp. 39-100. 

KISHINOUYE, K. Contributions to the 

natural history of the Commander 

Islands. No. xiii. — A new species of 

Stalked Medusse, Hnliclystus stejnegeri. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. .¥((.s., xxii, No. 1188, Dec. 

23, 1899, pp. 125-129, 3 text figs. 

Based on specimens collected at Nikolski. 

Bering Island, by Dr. Leonliard Stejnegcr 

in 1897. 

KNOWLTON, Frank Hall. Report on 
some fossil wood from the Richmond 
])asin, Virginia. 

Wth Ann. Rep. U. S. Qeol. Surv., 1899, Part 
II, pp. 516-519, pi. Lll. 
The specimens examined comprised three 
forms from the Triassic; one was too much 
changed for identification; one was identified 
as Araucarioxylon (?) virginicum; and the 
third was a new species, viz, Araucarioxylon 
woodworthi, named for the collector of the 
specimens. 

Fossil plants associated with the 

lavas of the Cascade Range. 

20th Ann. Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv., Part in, 
1900, pp. 37-64, pis. i-iii. 
The specimens described in this paper are 
in the Museum collection. They were col- 
lected by Mr. J. S. Diller and Mr. Elmer I. 
Applegate from .six different localities in 
Oregon, and include 28 forms, 10 of which are 
regarded as new to science. The characters 
"f the plants indicate the Miocene age of the 
beds from which they were obtained. 

Fossil flora of the Yellowstone 



National Park. 

Monogr. U.S. Geol. Surv., xxxii, 1899, Chap, 
xiv, pp. 651-882, pis. Lxxvii-cxxi. 
The specimens upon which this paper is 
based are in the Museum collection. The 
paper describes 160 species, 76 of which are 
new. They are distributed among 33 families, 
of which 19 are not represented in the present 
flora of the park. A comparison of the Ter- 
tiary and living flora renders apparent the 
great climatic changes that have taken place 
since the close of the Miocene period. 



L() BIANCO, Salvatore. The methods 
employed at the Naples Zoological Sta- 
tion for the preservation of marine 
animals. 

- Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 39, Part M, Oct. 
2, 1899, pp. [1]-[42J, 1 plate. 
Translated from the original Italian by 
Edmund Otis Hovey. 

LUTKEN, C. F., and MORTENSEN, Th. 

Reports on an exploration off the west 
coasts of Mexico, Central and South 
America, and off the Galapagos Islands, 
in charge of Alexander Agassiz, by the 
U. S. Fish Commission steamer Alba- 
tross, during 1891; Lieut. Commander 
Z. L. Tanner, U. S. N., commanding, 
xxv. — The Ophiuridaj. 

Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool. (Harvard College), 
XXIll, No. 2, Nov., 1899, pp. 97-208, 22 
plates and a chart. 
Sixty-six species were collected by the 
Albatross; 1 genus and 53 species are new. 
These are fully described and figured. A list 
of papers on Ophiurids, published subse- 
quently to Lyman's Monograph, is given, and 
also a list of the new genera and species con- 
tained therein. 

McGUIRE, Joseph D. Pipes and smok- 
ing customs of the American aborig- 
ines, based on material in the V. S. 
National Museum. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1897 (1899), pp. 351-645, pis. 1-4, fig.s. 
1-239. 

MARLATT, C. L. 

(See under L. O. Howard.) 

MARSH, Millard Caleb. (See under 
B. W. Evermann. ) 

MASON, Otis Tufton. The man's knife 
among the North American Indians. 
A study in the collections of the U. S. 
National Museum. 

Rrp. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1897 (1899), pp. 72.5-745, figs. 1-17. 

Ethnology and archaeology of 

Mexico. 

Handbook of Mexico (Bureau of American 
Republics), Washington, 1900, Chap, in, 
pp. 21-43. 
A bibliography from 1876 to date is in- 
cluded. 

MAXON, William R. A new Asplenium, 
hitherto referred to A. trichomanes var. 
incisum Moore. 

Bull. Torrcy Botan. Club, xxvii, Apr., 
1900, pp. 197-199. 



140 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



MAXON, William R. Note^ on AmiT- 
ican ferns, i. 

Fern Btdlctin, Viii, Apr., 1900, pp. 29-31. 

MAYNARD, George C. The electrical 
collections in the National Museum. 

Electrical Review, New York, xxxvi, Jan. 
3, 1900, pp. 10,11; Mar. 14, pp. 206,267, 
and May 16, pp. 507-509. 

MERRILL, George P. A discussion of 
the terms rock weathering, serj^enti- 
nization, and hydrometamorphism. 

Geol. Mag. (Decade IV), vi, Aug., 1S99, p. 
422. 
Reprinted in American UcologiM, Oct., 1899. 

Preliminary note on new meteor- 
ites from Allegan, Mich., and Mart, 
Tex. 

Science (new series), xx, Nov. 24, 1899, 
pp. 770,771. 

Nepheline melilite basalt from 

Oahu, Hawaiian Islands. 

Am. Oeologist, xxv, May, 1900, pp. 312,313. 

Sandstone disintegration through 



MILLER, Gekrit S., Jr. A new Tree 
Frog from the District of Columl)ia. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. )ra.i/(., xiii, Sept. 28, 1899, 
pp. 7.5-78. 
Ili/la evittata sp. nov. 

The Dogbanes of the District of 



Columbia. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wn.?!i., xill, Sept. 28, 1899, 
pp. 79-90, pi. II. 
Apocynum speciosvm sp. nov., A. urceolifer 
sp. nov., and A. nemoraU sj). nov. 

Descriptions of nix new Amencan 



the formation of interstitial gypsum. 
Science (new series), xi, June 1, 1900, pp. 
850, 851. 

MILLER, Gerrit S., Jr. Directions for 
preparing study specimens of small 
mammals. 

Bull. U. S. Nat. Mas., No. 39, Part N, Aug. 
26, 1899, pp. [l]-[10],lfig. 



rabbits. 

Proc. Arail. Nut. Sci. Philn., 1899 (Oct. 8, 
1899), pp. 380-390. 
Lepus anellus sp. nov., L. bachmani uheri- 
color subsp. nov., L. floi'idanus yucatanicus 
subsp. nov., L. floridanus s^ibcinctus subsp. 
nov., L. floridanus caniclunis subsp. nov., and 
L. floridanus sanctidiegi subsp. nov. 

Det^criptions of three new free- 
tailed bats. 

Bidl. Am. Mtts. Nat. Hist., xii, Oct. 20, 
1899, pp. 173-181. 
Nyctinomiis minutus, Saccopteryx perspicilli- 
frr and Peropteryx trinitatis. 

Preliminarv list of the mammals 



of New York. 

Btdl. N. Y. State Museum, vi, Oct., 1899 
(Nov. 18, 1899), pp. 273-390. 

History and characters of the 



Jamaica bats. A new genus and family Natalidse. 



species. 

Journ. Inst. Jamaica, ii, Aug. 31, 1899, pp. 

625-627, figs. 2-5. 

Reithronycteris aphylla gen. et sp. nov. An 

abstract of a paper in the Proceedings of the 

Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

1898, pp. 326-337. 

Descriptions of two new Gray 

Foxes. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1899 (August), 
pp. 276-280. 
Urocyon parvidens and V. guatemalx are de- 
scribed. 

The voles collected l)y Dr. AV. L.' 

Abbott in central Asia. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899 (August), 
pp. 281-298, pis. XII, XIII. 
Ten species are described, of which the fol- 
lowing are new: Mierotus ravidulus, M. pami- 
rensis, M. brachelix, M. cricetulus, and M. aero- 



Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., xii,' Dec. 23, 
1899, pp. 245-253. 

The bats of the genus Monophyllus. 

Proc. Wu.^h. Acad. Sci., ii. Mar. 30, 1900, 
pp. 31-38. 
Monophyllus portoricensis sp. nov., M. pletho- 
don sp. nov., and M. clinedaphus sp. nov. 

A new shrew from Eastern Turk- 



estan. 



Proc. Wash. Acad. Sci., ii. Mar. 30, 1900, 
pp. 39, 40. 
Vrocidura lignicolor »p. nov. 

— Three new bats from the island of 



Curasao. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xiii, Apr. 6, 1900, 
pp. 123-127. 
Myotis nesopolus sp. nov., Leptonycteris cura- 
soa; sp. nov., and Olossophaga elongata sp. nov. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



141 



MILLER, (territ S., Jr. Seven new- 
rats collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott in 
Siam. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xiii, Apr. 21, I'JOO, 

pp. 137-150, pis. iii-v. 

Mus voeiferans sp. nov., }f. /erreocanus sp. 

nov., M. validussp. nov., M. cremwiventer sp. 

nov., M. asper sp. nov., J/. peMozsp. nov.,and 

M. surifer sp. nov. 

The Vespertilio conchimwi of Harri- 
son Allen. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., .xiii, June i:i, l'.K)0, 
p. 154. 
Identical with Myotis nigricans. 



The generic name Evotomiin not 

invalidated by Anaptogonia. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Tr(i,',7(.,xni, June 13, lyoo, 
p. 1.54. 

Note on Micronyrtn-is hradtyotix 



Dobson and M. microtis Miller. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xiii, June 18, 1900, 
pp. 154, 155. 

The svstematic name of the Cu) )an 



Red Bat. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xiii, June 18, 1900, 
p. 165. 
Lasiurus blossevillei. 

Note on the Vespertilio hlythii of 



Tomes. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xiii, June 18, 1900, 
p. 1.%. 
A valid species which should stand as Myo- 
tis blythii (Tomes). 

The Scotophilus padiyomu.'i of 

Tomes a valid species. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., xni, June 13, 1900, 
pp. 155, 1.56. 
The proper name for the animal is Vesjicr- 
tilio pachyomus. 

A bat of the genus Lichoiiyctrri.y in 

South America. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., x:ii, June 18, 1900, 
p. 156. 

The systematic name of tiie large 

Noctule Bat of Europe. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., .xiii, June 18, 1900, 
p. 156. 
Itcrygistes maxirmis (Fatio). 



MILLER, Gerrit S., Jk. Antennnria 
snlitaria near the District of Columbia. 
Proc. Biol. Soc. Wa^h., xu, Jvnie 13, 1900, 
p. 157. 



MORTENSEN, Th. 

LtJTKEN. ) 



(See under C. F. 



A new subgenus for Lepus iilaho- ^nd its allies. 



NEEDHAM, James G. Directions for 
collecting and rearing dragon flies, 
stone flies, and may flies. 

Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 39, Part O, Nov. 
29, 1899, pp. [l]-[9], figs. 1-4. 

NELSON, E. W. Description of a new 

subspecies of Meleagris gitllojxtro and 
proposed changes in the nomenclature 
of certain North American Ijirds. 

Auk, xvn, No. 2, Apr., 1900, pp, 120-126. 
A new turkey, Melcagris f/allopavo merriami, 
is described (p. 120), and nomenclatural 
changes affecting four species of North Ameri- 
can birds are proposed, 

NYE, WiLLARD, Jr. A Bahanian bird 
apparently e::tinct. 

Auk, XVI, No. 3, July, 1899, p. 273. 
Note on the capture of a single specimen of 
Centurus nycanus, now in the U. S. National 
Museum. 

OBERHOLSER, Harry C. Description 
of a new Geothlypis. 

Auk, XVI, No. 3, July, 1899, pp. 2.56-258. 
Geothlypis trichas arizela is described as new. 

Notes on birds from the Came- 

roons district, West Africa. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxii, No. 1180, Oyt. 
7, 1899, pp. 11-19. 
Critical notes on 32 species, involving sev- 
eral changes of nomenclature. Eurillas (p. 
15) is a new genus belonging to the family 
Pycnonotidae. 

A list of the liirds collected by 

Mr. R. P. Currie in Liberia. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxii, No. 1182, Oct. 
9, 1899, pp. 25-37, pi. Vll. 
A list of 39 species, with critical remarks 
and notes on nomenclature. The following 
new genera and species are named: Horizo- 
cerus, p. 28; Dendromus caroli arizdus, p. 29; 
Stelgidillas, p. 30; Anthreptes idius, p. 33; Dicru- 
rus modestus atactus, p. 35, and Frascria pros- 
phora, p. 37. 

A synopsis of the genus ('(jutopus 



ensis. 

Priir. Biol. Sor. Wash., xill. June 18, 1900, 
p. 1.^7. 
Brachiilciyti." subgen. nov. 



Aiik, XVI, No. 4, Oct., 1899, pp. 380-337. 
A synopsis of the genera Nutiallornis, Con- 
topus, and Blacicus. Contoirus, being preoccu- 
pied, is renamed Jlorizopus. 



142 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



OBERHOLSER, Harry C. Flammu- 
lated Screech Owls, Megcm:op>t flam- 
meolus (Kaiip) and Megascope Jlammeohi)< 
idahoensis Merriam. 

Ornis, x, No. 1, Dec, 1899. 
An account of these two forms, with synon- 
ymy, geographical distribution, etc. 

A new wren from Alaska. 



Auk, XVIII, No. 1, Jan., 1900, pp. 25, 26. 
Anorthura meligera is described as a new 
species from the Aleutian Islands. 

Notes on birds collected by Dr. 



W. L. Abbott in central Asia. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxii, No. 1195, Apr. 
23, 1900, pp. 205-228. 
Notes on 62 species from Ladak and Kash- 
mir. Totanus totanus eurhinus (p. 207) is a 
new subspecies; Saxicola oreophila is a new 
name for S. montana Gould (preoccupied), 
and Perissospiza is proposed in place of Pyc- 
norhamphus (preoccupied). 

Notes on some birds from Santa 



Barbara Islands, California. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxii, No. 11%, Apr. 
23, 1900, pp. 229-234. 
A list, with notes, of 26 species recorded 
from these islands. 

Catalogue of a collection of birds 



from Madagascar. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxii, No. 1197, Apr. 
24, 1900, pp. 235-248. 
A list, with critical notes, on 57 species of 
birds collected in Madagascar by Rev. James 
Wills. 

PALMER, William. The avifauna of 
the Pribilof Islands. 

Fur Sealu and Fur Seal Islands of the North 
Pacific Ocean, Part in, 1899, pp. 355-431, 

pis. XXXVIII-XLI. 

A general account of the birds recorded 
from the Pribilof Islands. Arenaria morinella 
is treated as distinct from the Old-World 
Turnstone, and Hirundo erythropastra un- 
alaschkemis (Gmel.) is recognized as the 
Alaskan representative of the Bam Swallow. 

PERGANDE, Theo. A new species of 
plant-louse injurious to violets. 

Canadian Entomologist, xxxii, Feb., 1900, 
pp. 29, 30. Describes Hhopalosiphum 
violse, new species. 

POLLARD, Charles Louis. The genus 
Achillea in North America. 

Bull. Torrey Botan. Chib, 26, July, 1899, 

pp. 365-372. 

A revision of the North American species 

with notes on their geographical range. A. 

cali/ornica, A. gigantca, and A. Pecten- Veneris 

are described as new. 



POLLARD, Charles Louis. The fami- 
lies of flowering plants. 

Plant World Supplement, Jan. 1, 1900, m, 
pp. 1-43. 
A popular illustrated account of the plant 
families, based in part on the observation of 
material in the U. S. National Herbarium. 

Eight new species of North Ameri- 



can plants. 

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XIII, Apr. 6, 1900, 
pp. 129-132. 
Newspecies described in Qentiana, Lupinus, 
Viola, Chrysopsis, and Solidago. 

Treatment of the genera Cassia 



and Chamsscrista in Millspaugh's Plantpe 
Utowanse. 

Bull. Field Columbian Mus., Botanical 
series, ii, 1900, pp. 46-48. 

RATHBUN, Mary J. Jamaica Crusta- 
cea. 

Journ. Inst. Jamaica, ii. No. 6, Aug. 31, 
1899, pp. 628, 629. 
Consists of lists of Crustacea collected by Dr. 
J. E. Duerden at Port Royal Cays, Kingston 
Harbor, and Port Antonio, and determined 
by Miss Rathbun. Several species are added 
to the Jamaican fauna, and the name Chlori- 
della Miers is substituted for the preoccupied 
name Squilla Fabricius, the well-known ge- 
nus of Stomatopoda. 

A portion of the material belongs to the 
Museum. 

List of Crustacea known to occur 



on or near the Pribilof Islands. 

The Fur Seals and Fhir Seal Islands of the 

North Pacific Ocean, Part in, 1899, pp. 

555-558. 

The material upon which this list is based 

consists mainly of specimens dredged by the 

U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross, and 

also of shore specimens collected by Dr. F. W. 

True and Messrs. F. A. Lucas, William Palmer, 

and Henry W. Elliott. Four new species of 

shrimps are described. 



Synopses of North American in- 
vertebrates. VII. — The Cyclometopous 
or Cancroid crabs of North America. 

Am. Naturalist, xxxiv, No. 398, Feb., 1900, 
pp. 131-143, 5 text figs. 
A key to the genera and species of Ameri- 
can Cyclometopa occurring north of the 
southern boundary of the United States, the 
peninsula of Florida excluded, and from the 
shore to a depth of 100 fathoms. Four new 
species are noticed. 



BIBLIOGKAPHY. 



143 



RATHBUN, Maky J. The Decapod 
crustaceans of West Africa. 

Proc. U. S. Sat. Mus., xxii, No. 1199, May 
12, 1900, pp. 271-316, 2 text figs. 
A report prepared at the request of Prof. 
O. F. Cook for the New York State Coloniza- 
tion Society. The region covered extends 
from Senegal to the southern boundary of 
Portuguese West Africa, and not only the 
coast but the fresh waters tributary to it. 
The arrangement includes keys to families, 
genera, and species, a synonymical list of 
species, their West African habitat, and gen- 
eral distribution. A new species of hermit 
crab, Clibanarius cooki, is described and fig- 
ured. 

Synopses of North Amerit-an in- 
vertebrates. X. — ^The Oxyrhynchous 
and Oxystomatous crabs of North 
America. 

Am. Naturalist, xxxiv. No. 402, June, 1900, 
pp. 503-520, 15 text figs. 
A key similar to No. vii of the same series. 
.\ new species of Cyclodorippe, C. plana, is 
described from southern California. 

RICHARDSON, Harriet. Description 
of a new species of Idotea from Hako- 
date Bay, Japan. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxii, No. 1189, Feb. 
2, 1900, pp. 131-134, 6 text figs. 
The new species, Idotea japonica, is com- 
pared with /. ochotensis and I. rectilineata, to 
which it is nearly related. 

Synopses of North American inver- 
tebrates. VIII. — The Isopoda. Part 

I. Chelifera, Flabellifera, Valvifera. 

Am. Naturalist, xxxiv, No. 399, Mar.. 
1900, pp. 207-230. 11 text figs. 
Includes terrestrial, fresh-water, and marine 
forms from the shore to the deep sea. Several 
species are diagnosed here for the first time. 

Synopses of North American inver- 

teV)rates. viii. — The Isopoda. Part 

II. Asellota, Oniscoidea, Epicaridea. 

Am. Naturalist, xxxiv. No. 400, Apr., 1900, 
pp. 295-X09, 16 text figs. 
A continuation of the preceding paper. 

RICHMOND, Charles W. Overlooked 
descriptions of five humming birds. 

Auk, XVl, No. 4, Oct., 1899, pp. 323-325. 
Original descriptions of Trochilus cohuatl, T. 
xicotencal, T. tzacatl, T. papantzin, and T. 
topiltzin are here reprinted. 

On the date of Lacepede's "Tab- 
leaux." 

Auk, XVI, No. 4, Oct., 1899, pp. 325-329. 
Notes on the date of publication of Laci5- 
pede's " Tableaux," with a list of the livraisons 
and dates of publication of the " Didot" edi- 
tion of BufFon's " Histoiro naturclle." 



RICHMOND, Charles W. Note on the 
name Drymophila. 

Auk, XVI, No. 4, Oct., 1899, pp. 353, 354. 
Note on the proper use of the name Drymo- 
phila. 

Further notes on Lacepede's 



"Tableaux." 

Auk, XVII, No. 2, Apr., 1900, pp. 166, 167. 
Additional data regarding this subject, with 
a list of genera of birds dating from Lace- 
pede's "Tableaux," 1799. 

The earliest name for the Road- 



Auk, XVII, No. 2, Apr., 1900, pp. 173, 174. 
Note regarding the date of Swainson's spe- 
■ific name, longicauda, for the Roadrunner. 

— Some necessary changes in nomen- 



clature. 

Auk, XVII, No. 2, Apr., 1900, pp. 178, 179. 
Notes on some proposed changes in nomen- 
clature. Semnornis is a new generic and 
Geothlypis nelsoni a new specific name. 

Description of a new bird of the 



genus Dendromis. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxii. No. 1200, May 
12, 1900, pp. 317, 318. 
Dendromis striatigularis is described as a 
new species from Mexico. 

Description of three new birds 



from Lower Siam. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.. xxii. No. 1201, May 
12, 1900, pp. 319-321. 
^Elhopyga anomala, p. 319, Criniger sordidus, 
p. 320, and Turdinulus granti, p. 320, are de- 
scribed as new. 

RIDGWAY, Robert. Descriptions of 
supposed new genera, species, and sub- 
species of American birds, iv. — Frin- 
gillidse (concluded); Corvidse (part). 

Auk, XVI, No. 3, July, 1899, pp. 254-256. 
The following new species are described: 
Pipilo maculatus atratus, p. 254; Pipilo fu.scus 
potosinus, p. 254; Aimophila ru/escens sinaloa, 
p. 2.54; Cyanocorax affinis zeledoni, p. 255; Peri- 
soreus obscurus griseus, p. 255; Cyanocitta stel- 
leri azteca, p. 256. Cyanolyca mitrata is a new 
name (p. 255) for C. ornata, preoccupied. 

Descriptions of suj^posed new 



genera, species, and subspecies of Ameri- 
canbirds. v. — Corvidpe. (Concluded.) 

Auk, XVII, No. 1, Jan., 1900, pp. 27-29. 
The following species are described as new: 
Xanthoura yncas galeata, p. 27; X. Itixuosa 
glaucescens, p. 28; X. I. vivida, p. 28. 



144 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



RIDGWAY, RoBKKT. Descriptions of 
supposed new {lenera, species, and sub- 
species of American birds, vi. — Frin- 
gillidse. (Supplement.) 

Auk, XVII, No. 1, Jan., 1900, i)i>. 29,30. 
Melo»pizainclo(.U<i kciuiieanis, p. 29; PassereUa 
iliaca insidaris, p. 30, anfl P. i. annectcns, p. 30, 
are described a.s new. 

ROSE, Joseph Nelson. Stmliesof Mexi- 
can and Central American plants. 

Contrib. U. S. aVrt(. Herbarium, v. No. 1. 
Oct., 1899, pp. 14,7-200. 

Three new species of Tradescantiti 

from the United States. 

Omtrib. U. S. 'Nat. Herhariaiii, v, N<i. 1, 
Oct., 1899, pp. 204-206. 

— Trele(('Si;ti, a new genus of Com- 

melinacese. 

Contrib. U. S. j\\it. Herbarium, v. No. 4, 
Oct., 1899, pp. 207,208. 

Notes on useful plants of Mexico. 

Contrib. U. S. Nat. Herbarium, v, No, 1, 
Oct., 1899, pp. 209-259. 

ROSE, Joseph Nelson, and COULTER, 
John M. A synopsis of the Mexican 
and Central American Umbellifera?. 

Proc. Wash. Acad, iici., I, Jan. 8, 1900, \>\>. 
111-115, pis. 3-13. 

SCHUCHERT, Charles. The Fossil 
Field's Expedition to Wyoming. 

Science (new series), x, Nov. 17, 1899, pp. 

725-728. 

Mr. Schuchert accompanied thisexpL-dition 

as the representative of the National Museum. 

An account of hi.s trip is given in this paper. 

On the Lower Silurian (Trenton) 



fauna of Baffin Land. 

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xxii. No. 1192, April 
7, 1900, pp. 143-177, pis. xil-xiv, figs. 1, 2. 
Descriptions of fossils gathered at the head 
of Frobisher Bay, southern Baffin Land. This 
locality was first noticed by Hall and the 
place named "Silliman's Fo.ssil Mount." 
Seventy-two species, constituting the most 
extensive Paleozoic local collection from 
Arctic American regions, are listed or de- 
scribed. 

Lower Devonic aspect of the Lower 

Helderberg and Oriskany formations. 

Bull. Geol. Soc. Am., xi. May, 1900, pp. 241- 
332. 
This i)aper gives rea.sons for referring these 
formations to the Devonic system instead of 
to the Siluric as formerly. The work is largely 
based on previous literature; the material 
nsv(\ belongs to the National Museum. 

(See also under John M. Clakke. ) 



SIMPi=50N, Charles ToRREV. Thepearly 
freshwater mussels of the United States, 
their habits, enemies, and diseases, with 
suggestions for their protection. 

Bull. U. S. Fish Com., 1898, pp. 279-2SS, 
8 figs. 
This paper gives an accountof the more ob- 
viou.s shell characters and anatomy of our 
pearly freshwater mussels, with some account 
of their embryology, habits, and enemies. 
Suggestions are offered for their protection 
and propagation. 

Protective mimicry of mollusks. 



Popular Science, July, 1899, pp. 154, 1.55, 

4 figs. 

A brief iJOpular sketch of the way in wliich 

eiTtain mollusks are protected from their 

enemies by resembling their cnviroumeiit or 

other animals. 

• New and unfamiliar Unionida?. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 1900, pi). 74- 
86, pis. i-v. 
This paper contains descriptions of new 
species of Unionidse that have come to light 
during the preparation of a paper on the 
"Synopsis of the Naiades." Several new 
genera are described, and others are estab- 
lished under old names and redefined. Most 
of the unfigured species of Unionidae of 
Messrs. S. H. and B. H. Wright, the tyf)es of 
which are in the National Museum, are 
figured. 

SMITH, Hugh M., and BEAN, Barton 
A. List of fishes known to inhabit the 
waters of the District of Columbia and 
vicinity. 

Bull. U. S. Pish Com., 1898 (1899), pp. 179- 
187. 
This list records 81 species of fishes found in 
the vicinity of Washington (within a radius 
of 20 miles). It is based largely upon the col- 
lections of the National Museum and T'. S. 
Fish Commis.sion. Both scientific and com- 
mon names are given, with brief noteson the 
life histories of the more important species. 

SMITH, John B. New species of noc- 
turnal moths of the genus ( uiiijiniiictni, 
and notes. 

Proc. U. S. N<d. Mas., xxii. No. list, (Xt. 9, 
1899, pp, 101-105. 

(See also under W. H. Ashmead. ) 

STANTON, Timothy W. Mesozoic fos- 
sils [of the Yellowstone Park]. 

Monoyr. V. N. Geol. Siirv., xxxii, Pt. II, 
Sept., 1899, pp. f)00-650, pis. 72-76. 
Describes the Triassic, Jurassic, and Cre- 
taceous fossils occurring in the Yellowstone 
National Park. Based partly on Museum 
material. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



145 



ST ARKS, Edwin Chapin. Theosteolog- 
ical characters of the fishes of the sub- 
order Percesoces. 

Proc. U.S. Nat Mas., xxii.No. 1179, Oct. 7, 
1899, pp. 1-10, pis. I-III. 

In this paper the author gives the results of 
a study of the skeletons of several representa- 
tives of the families Atherinidae, Mugilidse, 
and SphjTKnidiB. 

This study leads him to conclude that these 
families are not so closely allied to each other 
as their external similarity would lead one to 
suppose. 

The osteology and relationshij) of 

the Percoidean fish, Dinolestes lewini. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxii. No. 1186, Uct. 
11, 1899, pp. 113-120, pis. viii-xi. 
This paper is a comparative study of Dino- 
lestes and the Sphyrsnidae and Cheilodipteri- 
dae. The author finds the affinity of Dinolestes 
to be with the Cheilodipterids rather than 
with the Sphyrsenidae. 

STEARNS, Robert E. C. Urosalpinx 
cinereus in San Francisco Bay. 

Nautilus, XII, No. 10, Feb., 1899, p. 112. 
Relates to the appearance of the Atlantic 
coast species in parts of the bay where it had 
not previously been noted. 

Crepidula convexa Say var. r/kiuca 

Say. 

Nautilus, XIII, No. 1, May, 1899, p. 8. 
Notes the occurrence of this Atlantic coast 
form on the shore of Alameda County, Cali- 
fornia. 

Natural history of the Tres Marias 

islands, Mexico. 

Nautilus, XIII, No. 2, June, 1899, pp. 19, 20; 

Science (new series), x, No. 239, July 28, 

1899. 
Attention is called to the omission by the 
author of North American Fauna, No. 14, U. S. 
Department of Agriculture, of any mention 
of the Fisher collection of shells made in 
1876. The list of .species included in Fisher's 
collection forms the substance of the paper 
entitled "The shells of the Tres Marias and 
other localities along the shores of Lower 
California and the Gulf of California," in vol. 
XVII, 1894, Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., No. 996, pp. 
139-204. 

Donax stultorum Mawe^Conrad's 

species Cytherea crassatellmdes. 

Nautilus, XIII, No. 7, Nov., 1899, pp. 73-75. 
In pursuance of a previous paper {Proc. 
r. S. Nat. Mus. XXI, pp. 371-378), the liter- 
ary history of the species is given. 

NAT MUS 1900 10 



STEARNS, Robert E. C. Abalone fish- 
ery in Cahfornia. Protective regula- 
tion. 

NautUus, xni. No. 7, Nov., 1899, pp. 81,82. 
Mentions the action of the authorities of 
Monterey County, Cal., in restricting the per- 
sistent and excessive collecting of these mol- 
lusks by Japanese and Chinese fishermen. 

Modiola plicatula Lamarck in San 

Francisco bay. 

Nautilus, xiii, No. 8, Dec., 1899, p. 86. 

The author mentions the occurrence of this 

well-known Atlantic coast species in Cali- 

fornian waters as incidentally introduced 

through the operations of the oyster industry. 

List of shells collected by Vernon 

Bailey in Heron and Eagle lakes, Min- 
nesota, with notes:. 

Pruc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxii. No. 1190, Apr. 
7, 1900, pp. 135-138. 
Describes variations in form of Linnxa 
emarginaia as exhibited in a collection re- 
ceived by the National Museum from the 
U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Description of a new variety of 

Haliotls from California, with faunal 
and geographic notes. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxii. No. 1191, Apr. 
7, 1900, pp. 139-142. 
H.ftdgens Philippi variety walcdlensis is de- 
.scribed from Guallala, Mendocino County, 
and the physiographic features of the coast in 
that vicinity are indicated. A preliminary 
description of the foregoing species was pub- 
lished in Nautilus, xii, No. 9, Jan., 1899. 

Exotic mollusca in California. 

Science (new series), xi. No. 278, Apr. 27, 
1900, pp. 655-659. 
The circumstances of the introduction of 
several foreign forms, either intentionally or 
other^vise, are herein given. Helix aspersa 
Mull., Amalia hewstoni Cp., Zonites {Vitrea) 
cellaria Mull., Zonites (Vitrea) draparnaldi 
Beck, Bulimus ventrosus Fer., Helicodiscus 
lineatus Say, Cocldicopa lubrica Mull., among 
the terrestrial forms, and Ostrea virginica 
Gmelin, Mya arenaria Linn., Modiola plicatula 
Lamarck, Urosalpinx cinereus Say, and Crepi- 
dula convexa var. glauca Say, marine species, 
are cited. 



Notes on the distribution of and 

certam characteristics in the Saxidomi 
of the west coast. 

Nautilus, XIV, No. 1, May, 1900, pp. 1-3. 
Attention is called to the hinge characters, 
and the exceeding development of the ad- 
ductor muscles, as compared with other forms 
of same size in the Veneridse, 



146 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



STEIGER, Georcje. (See under F. W. 
Clarke. ) 

STEJNEGER, Leonhard. A new name 
for the great crested Anolis of Jamaica. 

Am. Naturalist, .xxxiii, July, 1S99, pp. 601, 

602. 

Shows that the name Anolis edwardsii has 

been erroneously attributed to the great 

crested Avolis of Jamaica, and proposes that 

it be called A. garmani. 

■ The proper name of the Polar 



Bear. 

Science (new series), x, Sept. 15, 1899, pp. 

377, 378. 

Contends for Thalarctos maniimws (Phipps), 

1774, correcting J. A. Rehn, who in a previous 

niunber of Science states that it is Thalarctos 

marinus (Pallas), 1776. 

The birds of the Hawaiian Islands. 



!/, TV, Jan., 1900, pp. 71-73. 
A review of Scott Wilson and Evans's 
Aves Hawaiienses, with a discussion of the 
relationship of the Hawaiian avifauna. 

The relations of Norway and 



Sweden. 

Conservative Review, ii. Part i, Nov., 1899, 
pp. 317-346: III, Part ii, Mar., 1900, pp. 
114-141. 
An historical review of the political rela- 
tions from the earliest times to the present. 

STONE, WiTMEE. On a collection of 
birds from the vicinity of Bogota, with 
a review of the South American species 
of Speotyto and Troglodytes. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, pp. 302- 
313. 
An annotated list of 76 species, of which 
Speotyto cunicularia tolimx is new. 

TASSIN, Wirt. Catalogue of the series 
illustrating the properties of minerals. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1897 (1899), pp. 647-688. 

— Classification of the mineral col- 
lections in the TJ. S. National Museum. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1897 (1899), pp. 747-810. 

VAUGHAN, T. Wayland. Geologic 
notes on the Wichita Mountains, Okla- 
homa, and the Arbuckle Hills, Indian 
Territory. 

Am. Geologist, xxiv, July, 1899, pp. 44, 5.5. 



VAUGHAN, T. Wayland. Some Cre- 
taceous and Eocene corals from Jamaica. 

B%M. Mus. Comp. Zool. (Harvard College), 
xxxiv. No. 1, Sept., 1899, pp. 227-250, 
pis. XXXVI-XLI. 

A new fossil species of Caryophyllvi 

from California, and a new genus and 
species of Turbinolid coral from Japan. 

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxii. No. 1194, Apr. 
20, 1900, pp. 199-203, pi. xvi. 
The fossil species of Caryophyllia {€'. 
arnoldi) was sent to the National Museum by 
Mr. Ralph Arnold, of Stanford University. 
The Turbinolid is a recent species contributed 
by Rev. H. Loomis, and named by itsdescriber 
Levipali/er nrientnlis. 

Reconnaissance in the Rio Grande 



coal fields of Texas. 

Bidl. U. S. Geol. Sun:, No. 164, 1900, pp. 
1-100, pis, i-xi, 9 text figs. 

VERRILL, A. E. Revision of i-ertain 
genera and species of starfishes, with 
description of new forms. 

Trans. Conn. Acad. Arts and .S'c/., x, Aug., 
1899, pp. 145-234, pis. xxiv-xxx. 
Includes a revision of the classificatinn of 
the orders Valvata and Paxillosa of Perrier, 
and descriptions of many genera and species. 
Three families, 3 subfamilies, 9 genera, 14 
species, and 1 variety are described as new. 

The material studied is contained in the 
U. S. National Museum, the Museum of Com- 
parative Zoology of Harvard University, the 
Yale University Museum, and the Museum of 
the University of Iowa. 

North American Ophiuroidea. 

Part I. Revision of certain families 
and genera of West Indian Ophiurans. 
Part II. A faunal catalogue of the 
known species of West Indian Ophi- 
urans. 

Trans. Conn. Acad. Arts and Sci., x. Part 2, 
Oct., 1899, pp. 301-386, pis. XLll, xi.ill. 
This revision and list are based on collec- 
tions in the Museum of Yale University, the 
Museum of Comparative Zoology, the Museum 
of the University of Iowa, and the U. S. Na- 
tional Museum. 

Analytical tables are given of many of the 
genera and species. Three families, 4 sub- 
families, 6 genera, 3 species, and 1 variety arc 
described as new. 

WALCOTT, Charles D. Report upon 
the condition and progress of the IT. S. 
National Museum during the year end- 
ing June 30, 1897. 

Rej). Smithsonian hist. (U. S. Nat. M»is.), 
1897 (1899) , pp. 1-245. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



147 



WARD, Lester F. The Cretaceous for- 
mation of the Black Hills as indicated 
by the fossil plants. 

19th Ann. Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv.. Part ii, 
1899, pp. 521-946, pis. LVII-CLXXII. 

This paper was prepared in collaboration 
with Walter P. Jenney, William M. Fontaine, 
and F. H. Knowlton. 

The specimens described are in the Mnseum 
collection. They include 86 species, and are 
from the lower part of the Cretaceous forma- 
tion, from the beds that extend down from 
the Dakota group to the upper part of the 
.lurassic. One new genus and 36 new species 
are described. 

Description of a new genus and 20 

new species of fossil cycadean trunks 
from the Jurassic of Wyoming. 

Pioc. Wash. Acad. Set, i. 1900, pp. 253-300, 
pis. XIV-XXI. 
This paper is based partly upon Museum 
material. The locality of the specimens de- 
scribed is given as the Freezeout Hills, north 
of Medicine Bow, in Carbon County, Wyo. 
The new genus to which the 20 species are 
referred is OycadeUa. 

WHITE, David. Report on fossil plants 
from the McAlester coal field, Indian 
Territory, collected by Messrs. Taff and 
Richardson in 1897. 

19th Ann. Rep. V. S. Geol. Surv., Part ill, 
1899, pp. 457-538, pis. LXVli, l.xvill. 
The collections, which include about 75 spe- 
cies, Avere made at thirteen localities. They 
have been arranged in three groups; First, 
that from the horizon of the McAlester coal; 
second, a group from about 2,000 feet above the 
Mc.-Vlcstcrcoal: andthird, a group of localities 
from which a flora was collected belonging 
to a coal horizon about 1,500 feet below the 
McAlester coal. Comparing these with the 
Carboniferous divisions of the Old World, the 
Me.\lester flora is said to be clearly Stephan- 
ian and comparable to the flora of the Upper 
Coal Measures of Great Britain. The upper 
group belongs to a horizon some distance 
below the Permian, while the lower flora is 
plainly Wcstphalian, having close relations 
with the Middle or Lower Coal Measures of 
Great Britain. The fos.sil floras indicate a 
very great expansion of the coal measures in 
Indian Territory. 



AVHITE, David. Fossil flora of the 
Lower coal measures of Missouri. 

Monogr. U. S. Geol. Surv., xxxvii, 1899, 
i-xi, 1^67, pis. i-xxxiii. 
The greater portion of the specimens de- 
scribed in this paper were derived from two 
horizons about 45 feet apart. The plants 
described are concluded to be contempora- 
neous with the flora of the uppermost zone of 
the Westphalian of the Franco-Belgian Basin, 
and other coal fields of Europe. 

AVILSON, Thomas. History of the be- 
ginnings of the science of prehistoric 
anthropology. Vice presidential ad- 
<lress. Section H, American Association 
for the Advancement of Science. 

Proc. Am. ^Issoc. Adv. Set., Columbus 
Meeting, xlviii, 1899, pp. 310-353; Sci- 
ence (new series), x, No. 252, Oct. 27, pp. 
.585-601, and No. 253, Nov. 3, 1899, pp. 
637-648. 
A summary of scientific investigations in 
Europe and America concerning prehistoric 
anthropology, beginning in Denmark early in 
the present century. 

Arrowpoints, spearheads, and 

knives of prehistoric times. 

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), 
1897 (1899), pp. 811-988, pis. 1-65, figs. 
1-201. 

The Arkansas Traveler. 



Ohio Archn'olo(j. and Hist. Soc. Pubs., vill, 
1900, p. 296. 
Early wagon transportation in eastern Ohio. 

AVOODWORTH, W. 3IcM. Reports on 
the dredging operations off the west 
coast of Central America to the Gala- 
pagos, to the west coast of Mexico, and 
in the Gulf of California, in charge of 
Alexander Agassiz, carried on by the 
U. S. Fish Commission steamer Alba- 
tross, during 1891, Lieut. Commander 
Z. L. Tanner, U. S. N., commanding. 
XXVII. — Preliminary account of Plank- 
tonemertes agassizii, a new pelagic Ne- 
mertean. 

Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. (Harvard College), 
XXXV, No. 1, July, 1899, pp. 1-4, 1 pi. 
A new genus and species of Nemertean 
collected in deep water in the western part 
of the Pacific Ocean near the Equator. Five 
specimens were taken, four of which are 
figured. 



LIST OF AUTHORS. 

Adler, Cyrus, Smithsonian Institution. 

AsHMEAD, William H., U. S. National Museum. 

Bangs, Outram, Boston, Mass. 

Banks, Nathan, Falls Church, Va. 

Bartsch, Paul, U. S. National Museum. 

Bean, Barton A., U. S. National Museum. 

Bishop, Louis B., New Haven, Conn. 

Caudell, Andrew N., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Chittenden, Frank H., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Clarke, Frank W., U. S. Geological Survey. 

Clarke, John M., Albany, N. Y. 

CoQUiLLETT, Daniel W., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

CuRRiE, RoLLA P., U. S. National Museum. 

Dall, William H., U. S. Geological Survey. 

Dyar, Harrison G., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Flint, James M., U. S. N., U. S. National Museum. 

Gane, Henry Stewart, Chicago, 111. 

GiRTY, George H., U. S. Geological Survey. 

Hay, Oliver P., American Museum of Natural History, New York City. 

Hay, W. p., Washington, D. C. 

Holmes, William H., U. S. National Musemn. 

Hough, Walter, TJ. S. National Museum. 

Howard, Leland C, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

Kellogg, Vernon L., Leland Stanford Junior University, Stanford University, 

Cal. 
KisHiNOUYE, K., Imperial Fisheries Bureau, Tokyo, Japan. 
Knowlton, Frank Hall, U. S. Geological Survey. 
Lo Bianco, Salvatore, Naples Zoological Station, Naples, Italy. 
LtJTKEN, C. F., University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
McGuire, Joseph D., Ellicott City, Md. 
Marsh, Millard Caleb, Washington, D. C. 
Mason, Otis T., U. S. National Museum. 
Maxon, William R., U. S. National Museum. 
Maynard, George C, U. S. National Museum. 
Merrill, George P., U. S. National Museum. 
Miller, Gerrit S., Jr., U. S. National Museum. 

MoRTENSEN, Th., University Gcological Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
Needham, James G., Lake Forest, 111. 
Nelson, E. W., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 
Nye, Willard, Jr., New Bedford, Mass. 
Oberholser, Harry C, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 
Palmer, William, U. S. National Museum. 
Pergande, Tiieo., U. S. Department of Agriculture. 
Pollard, Charles Louis, U. S. National Museum. 
Rathbun, Mary J., U. S. National Museum. 

148 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 149 

RiCHAEDSON, Harriet, U. S. National Museum, Washington, D. G. 

Richmond, Charles W., U. S. National Museum. 

RiDGWAY, Robert, U. S. National JMuseum. 

Rose, J. N., U. S. National Museum. 

ScHUCHERT, Charles, U. S. National Museum. 

Simpson, Charles Torrey, U. S. National Musemii. 

Smith, Hugh M., U. S. Fish Commission. 

Smith, John B., Rutgers College, New Bninswick, N. J. 

Stanton, Timothy W., U. S. Geological Survey. 

Starks, Edwin C, University of Washington, Seattle, Wash. 

Ste.ikns, R. E. C, Los Angeles, Cal. 

Steiger, George, U. S. Geological Survey. 

Stejneger, Leonhard, U. S. National Museum. 

Stone, Witmer, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Tassin, Wirt, U. S. National Musemn. 

Vaughan, T. Wayland, U. S. Geological Survey. 

Verrill, a. E., Yale Univei'sity, New Haven, Conn. 

AValcott, Charles D., Director TJ. S. Geological Survey. 

Ward, Lester F., U. S. Geological Survey. 

White, David, U. S. Geological Survey. 

W1L.S0N, Thomas, U. S. National Museum. 

Woodworth, W. McM., Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. 



APPENDIX V. 

Papers Published in Separate Form. 

FROM THE REPORT FOR 1897. 

Report upon the condition and progress of the U. S. National Mnseuni (hiring the 

year ending June 30, 1897. By Charles D. Walcott. pp. 1-245. 
Recent Foraminifera. A descriptive catalogue of specimens dredged ))y the IJ. S. 

Fish Coniniission steamer Albatross. By James M. Flint, V. S. X. pp. 

249-349, pis. 1-80. 
Pipes and smoking customs of the American aborigines, based on material in the 

U. S. National Museum. By Joseph D. McGuire. })p. 351-845, pis. 1-4, 

figs. 1-239. 
Catalogue of the series illustrating the ])roperties of minerals. By Wirt Tassin. i)p. 

647-688. 
Te Pito Te Henua, known as Rapa Nui; commonly (tailed Easter Island, South 

Pacific Ocean. By George H. Cooke, U. 8. N. pp. 689-723. 
The man's knife among the North American Indians. A study in the collet'tions of 

the U. 8. National Museum. By Otis Tufton Mason. i>i). 725-745, 

figs. 1-17. 
Classification of the mineral collections in the U. S. National Museum. By Wirt 

Tassin. pp. 747-810. 
Arrowpoints, spearheads, and knives of prehistoric times. By Thomas Wilson, i)}). 

811-988, pis. 1-65, figs. 1-201. 

FROM VOLUME 22, PROCEEDINGS OF THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

No. 1179. The osteological characters of the fishes of the suborder Percesoces. By 

Edwin Chapiu Starks. pp. 1-10, pis. i-iii. 
No. 1180. Notes on birds from the Cameroons District, West Africa. By Harry C. 

Oberholser. pp. 11-19. 
No. 1181. Descriptions of two new species of tortoises from the Tertiary of the United 

States. By O. P. Hay. pp. 21-24, pis. iv-vi. 
No. 1182. A list of the birds collected by Mr. R. P. Ourrie in Liberia. By Harry C. 

Oberholser. pp. 25-37. pi. vii. 
No. 1183. A list of the Biting Lice (Mallophaga) taken from birds and mammals of 

North America. By Vernon L. Kellogg, pp. 39-100. 
No. 1184. New species of nocturnal moths of the genus Campometra , and notes. By 

John B. Smith, pp. 101-105. 
No. 1185. Synopsis of the Solenidse of North America and the Antilles. By WiUiam 

H. Dall. pp. 107-112. 
No. 1186. The osteology and relationship of the percoidean fish, Dinolestes lew'ml. 

By Edwin Chapin Starks. pp. 113-120, pis. viii-xi. 
No. 1187. Description of two new species of crayfi.sh. By W. P. Hay. pp. 121-123, 

figs. 1, 2. 

151 



152 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

No. 1188. Contributions to the natural history <>t' the Commander Islands. No. xiii. 
A new species of stalked medusic, Halidystus stejnegeri. By K. Kishi- 
nouye. pp. 125-129, figs. 1-3. 

No. 1189. Description of a new species of Idoiea from Hakodate Bay, Japan. By 
Harriet Richardson, pp. 131-134, figs. 1-6. 

No. 1190. List of shells collected by Vernon Bailey in Heron and Eagle lakes, iVIin- 
nesota, with notes. By Robert E. C. Stearns, pp. 135-138. 

No. 1191. Description of a new variety of Haliotis from California, with faunal and 
geographical notes. By Robert E. C. Steams, pp. 139-142. 

No. 1192. On the Lower Silurian (Trenton) fauna of Baffin Land. By (Charles 
Schuchert. pp. 143-177, pis. xii-xiv, figs. 1, 2. 

No. 1193. Some Neocene corals of the United States. By Henry Stewart Gane. pp. 
179-198, pi. XV. 

No. 1194. A new fossil species of CaryophyUia from California, and a new genus and 
species of turbinolid coral from Japan. By T. Wayland Vaughan. 
pp. 199-203, pi. XVI. 

No. 1195. Notes on birds collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott in central Asia. By Harry C. 
Oberholser. pp. 205-228. 

No. 1196. Notes on some birds from Santa Barbara Islands, California. By Harry C. 
Oberholser. pp. 229-234. 

No. 1197. C-atalogue of a collection of birds from Madagascar. By Harry C. Ober- 
holser. pp. 235-248. 

No. 1198. Report on a collection of dipterous insects from Porto Rico. By D. W. 
Coquillett. pp. 249-270. 

No. 1199. The decapod crustaceans of West Africa. By Mary J. Rathbun. pp. 
271-316. 

No. 1200. Description of a new bird of the genus Dendromis. By Charles W. Rich- 
mond, pp. 317, 318. 

No. 1201. Description of three new birds from Lower Siam. By Charles W. Rich- 
mond, pp. 319-321. 

No. 1202. On the genera of the Chalcid-flies belonging to the subfamily Encyrtinse. 
By William H. Ashmead. pp. 323-412. 

FROM BULLETIN 39. 

Part M. The methods employed at the Naples Zoological Station for the preserva- 
tion of marine animals. By Salvatore Lo Bianco, pp. [l]-[42], 1 plate. 

Part N. Directions for preparing study specimens of small mammals. By Gerrit S. 
Miller, jr. pp. [1]-[10], 1 fig. 

Part O. Directions for collecting and rearing dragon flies, stone flies, and may flies. 
By James G. Needham, pp. [l]-[9], figs. 1-4. 



I> A^ R T II. 



PAPERS DESCRIBING AND ILLUSTRATING COLLECTIONS IN THE 
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Page. 

Anthropological Studies in California. By William Henry Holmes : 155 

Aboriginal American Harpoons: A Study in Ethnic Distribution and Inven- 
tion. By Otis Tufton Mason 189 

A Sketch of the History of the Ceramic Art in China, with a Catalogue of tlie 

Hippisley Collection of Chinese Porcelains. By Alfred E. Hippisley 305 

Contributions to the History of Musical Scales. By Charles Kasson AVead . . . 417 

A Collection of Hopi Ceremonial Pigments. By Walter Hough 463 

Descriptive Catalogue of the Collection of Gems in the United States National 

Museum. By Wirt Tassin 473 

Descriptive Catalogue of the Meteorite Collection in the United States National 

Museum. By Wirt Tassin 671 

153 



Report of U. S. National MuseuTi. 1 900.— Holrres. 



Plate 1. 




ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN CALIFORNIA. 



WILIilAM HENRY HOI.MES, 

Head Curator, Department of Anthropology. 



155 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Page. 

Introduction 161 

Vicinity of Nevada City, Nevada County '. 165 

Vicinity of Forest Hill, Placer County 166 

Tuolumne Table INIouutain region 170 

Collections in San Franci-sco and vicinity 173 

Porno Eeservation, Mendocino County 174 

Stockton district 176 

Tulare Reservation, Tulare County 178 

Southern California 181 

157 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Facing page. 

1. Milling place of the California Indians (frontispiece) 155 

2. Stone mealing plates, Oro Flat 168 

3. Stones for rubbing and pounding, Oro Flat 168 

4. A. Dismantled milling place, Yankee Jim. 

B. Stone pestle, pounding-grinding stone, and wagon-axle pestle, Yankee 

Jim 168 

5. Baskets, Todds Valley Indians 168 

6. Unfinished basket, Todds Valley Indians 168 

7. Basket, Todds Valley Indians 168 

8. A. Native village at Murphys. 

B. Shelter for summer use, near Murphys 170 

9. Stone mortars from Stanislaus and Mokelumne valleys 170 

10. Carrying and hulling acorns 172 

11. (Jrinding acorn meal on stone plate 172 

12. ,1 . Pounding acorns in mortar. 

B. Sifting the meal — separating the coarse particles by shaking 172 

13. A. Removing coarse particles from edge of basket. 

B. Resting from the work 172 

14. A. Cleaning the meal by shaking and blowing. 

B. Pouring meal into sand ])ed for leaching 172 

15. A . Lifting hot stones into basket of water. 

B. Removing stones from basket of water 172 

16. Underground council chaml)er, Pomo village 174 

17. Construction of Pomo Iniildings 174 

18. Carrying baskets of the Pomo Indians 174 

19. Feather-decorated baskets of the Pomo Indians 174 

20. Feather-decorated baskets of the Pomo Indians 

21. A. Pomo woman making a basket. 

7?. Pomo men making shell l)eads — grinding and drilling 174 

22. .1. Pomo woman with carrying basket. 

B. Pomo woman pounding acorns in mortar with basket iKj^tper 174 

23. A. Mound near Stockton. 

J>. Exposure of skeletons in mound, Stockton 176 

24. A. Cylindrical steatite vessel from Stockton mounds. 

B. Shell ornaments from Stockton mounds 176 

25. Obsidian knives from Stockton mounds 176 

26. Clay pellets for use in slings, Stockton mounds 176 

27. Clay pellets for use in slings, Stockton mounds 176 

28. A. Clay pellets and ornaments, Stockton mounds. 

B. Decorated bone implements, Stockton mounds 176 

29. Mortar rock, Tulare Reservation 178 

159 



160 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Facing page 

30. Thrashing and winnowing beans, Tulare Indians 180 

31. Mortar and pestle in use by Tulare Indians 180 

32. Pigeon snaring, Tulare Indians 180 

33. Implements, Tulare Indians. A. Pigeon snare, Tulare Indians. 

B. Game basket, 

C. Wooden fire tongs, 

D. Looped boiling stick 1 80 

34. Yucca bulbs and brushes, Tulare Indians 180 

35. Ceremonial headdress and matting case for same, Tulare Indians 180 

36. Winnowing baskets, Tulare Indians 180 

37. Bowl-shaped baskets, Tulare Indians 180 

38. Bowl-shaped basket, Tulare Indians 180 

39. Bottle-shaped basket, Tulare Indians 180 

40. Bottle-shaped basket, Tulare Indians 180 

41. Tulare gambling tray 180 

42. Tulare squaws using gambling tray 180 

43. Pasadena village-site artifacts 182 

44. Pasadena village-site artifacts 182 

45. Views of Santa Barbara Point, the site of a prehistoric cemetery 182 

46. Traces of aboriginal work in soapstone quarry, Santa Catalina Island 184 

47. Objects of soapstone from a grave, Santa Catalina Island , 184 

48. Examining a grave at Soapstone quarry, Santa Catalina Island 184 

49. Views at the isthmus, Santa Catalina Island 184 

50. Small mortars, unfinished and finished, and unfinished pestle 184 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIKS IX CALIFORNIA. 



By William Henry Holmes, 
Head Curator, Depurtmeiit of Anthropology. 



INTRODUCTION. 

It i.s not intended in the present paper to enter into a systematic 
discussion of Californian a]"cha?ology and ethnology, but rather to 
present such materials as it has been my good fortune to acquire dur- 
ing a brief period of exploration, mainh' in the central portions of the 
State. ^ In order that these observations may have, in a measure, the 
proper setting, a few introductory remarks in explanation of general 
anthropological conditions on the Pacific coast are presented. 

In considering the archaBology of a great region like California, it is 
proper that the present aborigines and their culture should l)e studied, 
and the knowledge thus acquired utilized in discussing the prehistoric 
monuments and artifacts of the region. To-day there are remnants of 
many tribes in California, at least twenty separate linguistic stocks 
being represented, a really marvelous diversity in a province which, 
howsoever extensive (some 300 by 800 miles in extent), is not separated 
into very well-defined areas by orographic or other Ijarriers. As laid 
down in colors on the map, the remarkable multiplicity of stocks along 
the Pacific coast is especialh' noticeable, and it seems as if the varied 
ethnic elements of a vast region must have been attracted, one after 
another, to these lowland and coastal valleys by some powerful mag- 
net, such, for example, as that furnished b}^ an unfailing food supply; 
and so formidable are the barriers of mountain ranges on the east and 

'The oVjservations recorded in the^e pages were made during a brief trip to Cali- 
fornia in the summer of 1898. The work was conducted under the auspices of the 
Bureau of American Ethnology, and the writer was accompanied during the major 
part of the journey by Dr. W J McGee, ethnologist in charge of the Bureau. One 
of the principal objects of the journey was to look into the evidence relating to the 
antiquity of man in tlie Auriferous Gravel region of the Sierra Nevada. This subject 
has already received attention in a i)aper published in the American Antiiropologist 
for January and OctoT)er, 1S99, and reprinted with additions in the Smithsonian 
Reiwrt for 1900, and will not be prcseuteU. at length in this connection. 

161 
NAT MUS 1900 11 



162 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

«() forbidding the deserts on the south, that few coniiiiunities once 
settknl iilon.i4" the coast would ever take the trouble to seek homes else- 
where. It would seem that the nations were caught as tish in a trap. 
The wa}' in was eas}', but the way out was hard. By some such process 
California acciuired its varied peoples. The remarkable diversity' in 
lanj^uat^e is thus probably largel}' due to the arrival of tribes already 
speakino- diversified tongues rather than to diflerentiation within 
present hal)itats. 

Notwithstanding the great multiplicit}' of languages there is marked 
uniformity in the physical characters of the peopie, and culture in 
general is diversihed only in details. We conclude that although the 
peoples had a common origin, no doubt in the far north, scattering and 
isolated occupation of vast areas of country led to multiplication of 
tongues, while all those elements of culture dependent upon immediate 
enA'ironment and readily modified by it have been remodeled into a 
homogeneous whole. It is probable that conditions nearly identical 
with those of historic times have prevailed for a long period on tlie 
Pacific coast. Archieology seems to have no strong light to throw 
upon the history of the region. We seek in vain for the presence of 
distinct peoples or indications of different conditions. We can neither 
trace any of the present peoples back along the course of their history 
to more primitive conditions, nor follow the ii in their migrations far 
outward into regions from which the}' may have come. There is 
nothing in the past of culture that is not comprised in the present. 
There may have been simpler peoples, less advanced peoples, in the 
near or far past, but there is no trace of former higher development 
or the coming of strangers bearing with them germs of strange cul- 
tures from foreign lands, northern or southern, Asiatic, European, or 
Polynesian. 

We observe, also, that in its ensemble Californian culture is sharply 
marked off even from that of most of the neighboring peoples — ^as, for 
example, the Pueblos, the Mound-Builders, and the Mexicans. Art in 
stone, upon which archaeology must largeh' depend, is practically 
uniform at all points in the California province, differences being due 
largel}^ to variations in local resources. The absence of certain forms 
of implements and utensils common elsewhere is especially noteworthy-. 
There are no grooved axes* and no celts, past or present. Sculpture 
of life forms is almost wholly absent, and building in stone was and is 
unknown. At the same time many of the classes of artifacts found in 
California are peculiar to the region. The mortar and the pestle are 
most notable features of the domestic outfit of the coast, and though, 
in one form or another, present in many sections of America, are 
nowhere so prevalent and so varied in shape. The grinding plate and 

^ An exception is found in the grooved implement, illustrated in the seventh vol- 
ume of the Surveys West of the One Hundredth Meridian, p. 203. 



ANTHROPOLOGHCAL STUDIES IN CALIB^ORNIA. 163 

muUer are almost equally niinieroiis, and it i.s probalily to the acorn 
that the region owes the remarkable development of these utensils; 
and the wide distribution of the oak tree over the slope in a measure 
regulates the distribution of the tribes, tending to foster a very gen- 
eral but rather scattering oecupation by small conmiunities. It is thus 
that the tribes have always been ])ut slightly associated and wholly 
without the al)ility to unite in concerted action. 

Simultaneoush' with the development of the mortar and grinding plate 
there grew up the art of olla or stone vessel making, and the discovery 
of extensive deposits of soapstone on the far-away island of Santa Cata- 
lina led to a new and distinctive group of artifacts confined to the 
channel islands and the neighboring coastal districts. 

A most notable peculiarity of the art of the region is the rarity of 
earthenware, which for some undiscovered reason was never utilized, 
save in the making of rude balls of baked cla}^ for use in slings and in 
sporadic efforts at vessel making. The rude earthen vases found in 
the Tulare region and elsewhere are probably mainly of recent" origin, 
and the practice of the art by the mission tribes of the South is no 
doubt a late Shoshonean transfer from the Colorado Valley. Utensils 
of stone and wood occupied the tield covered ])y pottery in other 
sections, and basketry grew into unexampled importance, displaying 
remarkably varied phases of form, technique, and embellishment. 

Sea shells, which abound along the entire coast, and especially the 
haliotis and the clam, have furnished material for personal ornaments 
and helped to determine their character, and the great deposits of 
obsidian toward the north have probabh^ given an impetus to liaked 
stone art among all the tribes. 

We might expect at first glance to find dividing lines, more or less 
distinct, between the peoples of the south and those of the north, and 
between those of the Sierra belt on the east, the chain of valleys trav- 
ersing the middle of the State from north to south, and the coastal 
zone, but the difi'erences are not of great importance, as no barrier 
exists to prevent free intercourse between neighboring sections. The 
north has evidently been affected b}" the farther north, but the south 
has hardly felt the influence of the more advanced tribes of the Colo- 
rado Valley. 

That the peoples are of Asiatic origin I see no reason to doubt, ])ut 
to speak of them as Chinese, Malay, or Tartar in origin, without very 
considerable qualification, is a great mistake. Although all may have 
arrived, more or less directly, from the north, and primarily from the 
shores of Bering Sea and bevond, it is not likely that any particular 
Asiatic strain ever passed the north Pacific arch, ran the gauntlet of 
interfering and opposing nations, and reached far-away California in 
even approximate purity. That any particular language of the many 



164 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 19()0. 

existinj^ in temperate Asia should be preserved throug-hout the centuries 
of migration and struggle and appear in California so unchanged as 
to be identified with a given Asiatic tongue to-day is not to be expected, 
and it is manifest folly to continue the search for traces of Asiatic arts 
and industries other than those that may have been transferred in 
recent times ])y means of modern ships. Every art, save the most 
elementary, woidd ])e lost or transformed in passing the frigid gate- 
way. Religion, social institutions, government, industries, all would 
change with changing conditions and be remodeled in each of the 
numerous distinctive environments encountered between Tartary and 
California. Agriculture, pastoral arts, metallurgy, ceramics, and all 
forms of domestic art would be obliterated, and other activities, such 
as weaving, stone-shaping, house-building, hunting, and fishing, would 
be so completely modified that no knowledge of original practices 
would remain in the mind of any individual or be preserved in any 
tradition. What is now found, old or new, in the culture of California, 
is America's own, if not, indeed, fully and absolutely Californian. 
The incoming populations of the coast had to discover the metals, and 
could not have developed the arts of using them until ages after reach- 
ing the temperate zone. Clay existed everywhere in plent}^ but tribes 
arriving from the far north would be slow to discover its use in the 
arts and cast aside inherited arctic forms of utensils. It has not yet 
in any part of the coast usurped the place of skin, bark, and wood in 
vessel making, although neighboring provinces on the east and south 
have been potters for many centuries. Before soapstone came into use 
it had to be found in far out of the way places; and the group of mill- 
ing arts, now so important a feature in the economy of the people, 
had no prototypes in the frigid zone, where the diet was exclusively 
animal. It would be useless even to guess at the time required for the 
development of the group of arts and industries characterizing the 
aboriginal culture of California. 

Study of analogies in blood and culture, with the view of establish- 
ing more than the most general relationships between American and 
transoceanic nations, has been and no doubt will be quite in vain. 
The question of a possible very ancient autochthonic people is some- 
times raised, but as 3"et there is apparently no sufficient basis upon 
which to discuss the proposition. If there were such people in America 
they must now be merged fuU}^ into the Asiatic populations of the 
present period. The same would be true also of the culture. We 
may well pursue the study of Californian archaeology with practical 
certainty that, whatever the origin of the people, we are, in the main, 
elucidating local and sublocal culture. With language it is different. 
Although changing rapidly with altered conditions, speech has little 
tendency toward uniformity among distinct nations. Twenty peoples 
coming from different regions to California, bringing as many distinct 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN CALIFOKNIA. 165 

languages, might still speak twent}' diffei-etit languages after the other 
activities had been nioditied and remodeled as in a common mold bj^ 
the local environment. 

VICINITY OF NEVADA CITY, NEVADA COUNTY. 

The first stop of our party in California was at Nevada City, Nevada 
Count}'. Here archaeological investigations were made and collections 
of basketry and stone implements were secured from some families of 
"Hi-eet" Indians (Pujunan stock), whose village is on the table-land 
about a mile west of the city. A recent tire had deprived these poor 
people of their wooden houses, and they were lodging in improvised 
shelters, brooding over their misfortunes. There are hardly more 
than a dozen individuals, all told. They are not, however, ill favored 
and debased in appearance, and compare very well with other tril)es 
of corresponding condition and habits. The men work in the mines 
or at other occupations when opportunity offers, and the women 
gather acorns — still a large factor in their domestic life — grind them 
in the stone mills, and prepare the food; they also continue to make 
baskets in the usual style of the Sierra tribes. It is not pleasant for 
the ethnologist to note, however, that the gunnysack is taking the 
place of the strongly woven carrying basket, that the iron pestle and 
muUer are superseding those of stone, and that cooking on iron stoves 
and in tin utensils is being substituted for the old-time stone-boiling 
in tightly woven baskets. 

Several milling places were found near the dwellings, where con- 
venient masses of granite happened to be exposed. A dozen conical 
depressions, some shallow and some deep, were scattered over the rock 
surfaces, and all about were the mealing stones, some nearly round, 
others oval, flatfish, or cylindrical, a few well shaped, the others rude. 
Some were suited for grinding by abrasion, others by pounding, the 
shape being accommodated to the contour of the depression in which 
they were to be used. These milling places are usually covered by a 
rude pole and brush shelter, which serves to protect from sun and 
rain the women (Plate 1), who spend much of their time at the mills. 
Besides the fixed mortars, there were seen about the dwellings both 
round and flatfish mortars and mealing stones, with accompanying 
pestles and mullers used in the minor pulverizing work of the house- 
hold. Illustrations of typical forms from neighboring districts are 
given farther on. The archaeological features of the vicinity are 
referred to in the paper, alread}' mentioned, devoted to evidences of 
auriferous gravel man. It was observed that in particular the modern 
villagers dwelt above the briid<s.of the great mines, and that stray arti- 
facts necessarilj' found their way into the excavations. Search was 
made for the mine from which one of the specimens, a mortar, referred 
to by Josiah D. Whitney in his work on the Auriferous (travels of 



166 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

California, is said to have come, and it was ascertained that this mine 
was confined to a small gulch, at the head of which stands an oak 
grove suited in every way for occupation by the acorn-using natives 
of the district. 

Nevada Cit}' is picturesquely^ situated on the banks of a mountain 
torrent known as Deer Creek, and evidences of former mining activity 
are visible on all hands. The gravels occur in extensive deposits, and 
though rich in gold are not jet nearly worked out, the enactment of 
laws limiting the use of water for hydraulic operations having greatly 
retarded the work. 



VICINITY OF FOREST HILL. PLACER COUNTY. 

From Nevada Cit}' it is a day's journey to Forest Hill, the county 
seat of Placer County — a great mining center in former days. The 
trip was made by rail to Colfax, on the Central Pacific R. li. , and thence 
by stage coach across the magnificent canyon of the North Fork of 
American River. These Sierra valleys are all of absorbing interest to 
the student of human histor}^ for it is held by many that man inhab- 
ited this region long before the vast gorges began to be excavated, 
and the grand ranges culminating in the snow-capped Sierra began to 
be carved out. As our coach crept wearih' up the eastern rim of the 
valle}^, and, long after nightfall, passed out over the crest through the' 
mining town of Yankee Jim, 2,000 feet above the river behind us, we 
for the first time realized the full significance and magnitude of the 
proposition advocated b}- Whitney, namely, that human bones and 
relics of advanced culture occur in large numbers in the original forma- 
tions of these moimtain crests — formations laid down in the stream 
beds of a river system alread}^ o)il iterated in Tertiary times, and long 
before the erosion of the present valleys began. The particular object 
of our visit to this district was to learn something of the possil)le origin 
of the objects of art reported b}^ Whitnej'^ as coming from the mines, 
and at the same time to collect from the native villages scattered over 
the district such objects of interest for the ethnologist as the people 
possessed. 

The village of Yankee Jim is located on the brink or rim of the 
great valle}^ of the North Fork of the American, and Forest Hill, 2 
miles farther on across the plateau-like crest, overlooks the superb 
valley of Middle Fork. Professor Whitney says,^ on the authority 
of Mr. C. D. Vo3% that stone implements were found in 18<U, about a 
mile south of the town of Forest Hill, at a depth in the gold-l)earing 
gravels of about 10 feet. One of the n\ost interesting of these was a 
flat dish, or platter, worked out of hard granite, and al)out is inches 
in diameter. We at once sought out those residents of the locality 

'J. I). Whitney, Auriferous (i ravels, p. 272. 



A'NTHROTOLOGICAL STUDIES IN CALIFORNIA. 167 

best qualifiod to inform us reo-ardino- tho iniiies and their history, and 
were so fortuntito as to meet Mr. Rieliard CUark, a well-known citizen 
and extensive mine owium-, who had ))een in the district from the 
very befjinnino-. It was soon learned that the oreat Dardanelles 
mine, owned and worked by Mr. Clark, was about 1 mile south of the 
village, and in his company the site was at once visited. The mine 
occurs several hundred feet down the slope descending- into the canyon 
of the Middle Fork, and on a narrow l>ench called Oro Flat. Here 
the outcropping- margin of the gravel deposits of a Tertiary river 
channel are exposed in a heavy deposit 200 to 4O0 feet thick. The 
mining operations destroyed a large part of the fiat, leaA'ing at the 
upper margin, when active work ceased ten years ago, an irregular 
gravel clitl' half a mile long, exposing the full thickness of the gravels 
now consideral)ly weathered down and gullied b\' erosion. Approach- 
ing from above, we descended to the flat and halted upon a rounded 
portion of the surface overlooking the brink of the mine. Here was 
a small farm, and a tield immediately above the deepest part of the 
mine was quite bare, although it had not l)een cultivated apparently 
for some years. It was soon discovered that the spot had been exten- 
sively occupied by the native peoples, and in the course of the fore- 
noon a dozen mealing stones and mortars (Plate 2), thirty hand stones 
and pestles (Plate 3), and many minor relics — mainly arrow and spear 
points — were collected. It was noticed that the outer margin of the 
site had been encroached upon b}^ the mine and perhaps a third or 
half of it had been destroyed. It was further seen that the site slopes 
toward the vertical brink of the mine, and that many gullies are cut, 
growing deeper toward the cliff, and that near the margin they are so 
deep and precipitous that it was unsafe to enter them. The relics were 
found all over the tield. ])ut more abundantly in the gullies where they 
had rolled and lodged; but all were surely on their way to the mine. 
Naturally, onh- the smaller, flatter objects remained, the round pestles 
and the globular mortal's had long since found their way into the mine 
below, where the}^ became intermingled with the great mass of loose 
gravels and bowlders. Some specimens were found far down the 
sides of the mine lodged on ledges and in heaps of debris, and the fact 
was impressed upon our minds that flnds of stone relics in the mine, 
unless made by expert observers, could have no value as an index of 
age. On the brink of the mine were found also conical mortar basins 
worked in the surface of large bowlders and outcropping rocks. Mr. 
Clark assured us that this site had not been occupied by the natives 
since the opening of the mine in 1852, and it is cUnir that as the min- 
ing work went on all along the lower margin of this site the stone 
implements rolled in, and it is no wonder that collectors were able to 
secure from it the flat dish or platter of granite referred to by Whit- 
ney, for a dozen of these oljjects wei'c still scattered along the l)rink 



168 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

above read}' to fall in as the work of the miner advanced. Plates 2 
and 3 illustrate part of the finds made on this spot. It is observed 
that these relics do not correspond fully with those of the modern 
Indian sites, that the mullers are smaller and rounder and more neatly 
shaped, and that the smaller stone objects are of varieties not now in 
use. This, however, does not necessarily indicate different peoples, 
but probably results from changes in ha))its due to contact with the 
whites and the degenerac}' of aboriginal work in general. 

At Yankee Jim, at one time a very lively camp, but now a small 
village, we visited a mine being opened by Mr. Robert Clark, and 
spent an hour at an Indian dwelling on the hill slope near the mine. 
The photograph of a dismantled mill shown in Plate •! «, was secured 
at this place. The shallow mortars, similar to those shown in Plate 2, 
were sunk in the ground so that they can just be distinguished in the 
picture. The hand stones consisted of several rather rudely shaped 
ovoid and cylindrical stones (Plate 4 7>), a small, oblong, flatfish grind- 
ing stone pecked away at one end to make it available as a pestle, 
and three or four iron wagon-axle pestles. Some of these hand 
stones evidently served both for pounding and rubbing, while one or 
two are slightly concave on one side, indicating their use also for 
cracking acorns upon or as mortars for pulverizing in a small way. 
The fact that some of the mortars and grinding plates of California are 
well rounded and finished on the margins and base while others are rude 
and unfinished has been noted by several writers, but I do not recall 
mention of the fact that the unfinished ones are intended for planting 
in the ground, leaving only the concave grinding surface exposed, 
while the finished ones, at least those of smaller size, are portal)le 
household utensils. What ethnical significance there may be in this 
is not determined. The differences in form may be due to the pres- 
ence of distinct peoples on the site, or to diversity in the practices of 
a single people at the same or at different times. 

Learning of an Indian settlement in Todd's Valley, 4 miles south of 
Forest Hill, we drove down and spent a day in the vicinity. Here 
also we found extensive gravel mines, similarly situated to those at 
Oro Flat, and native settlements in intimate association with them. 
The residence of an Indian family stands on the very brink of the 
mine, and doubtless the site has been long occupied. 

While Dr. McGee was engaged in his usual occupation of securing 
vocabularies and hiu-ts of the customs and history of the people, I 
looked into their milling places and learned what I could of their arts. 
The principal dwelling is a frame house of two or three rooms and a 
porch, while about are the mill house and other simple shelters. An 
elderly woman, Susan ])v name (her native name could not be learned 
from any source), having tattoo marks on her chin, had near at Jiand 
a very snug little shelter made of sticks, bark, and foliage, in which 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 900.— Holmes. 



Plate 2. 




Kiaiiii'tci- l")i' iiiclu 




DianK'ter T.j incln's. OiaiiiftcT "{ inches. 

Stone Mealing Plates, Oro Flat. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Holmes. 



Plate 3. 




Stones for rubbing and pounding, Oro Flat. 

Abdiit (iiic-iialf actUMl size. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 900.— Holmes. 



Plate 4. 




.1. Dismantled milling Place, Yankee Jim. 




B. Stone Pestle, Pounding-grinding Stone, and Wagon-axle Pestle, Yankee Ji 

Lcii.ytl] iilMiut 12 iiirhc,-. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 5. 




I>iaim'ter ;•.; inrlu 




IiiaiiictiT Il.i iiu-li.->. 

Baskets, Todds Valley Indians. 



Report of U. S. National' Museum, 1 900.— Holmes. 



Plate 6. 



■Mf 


^■1 


1 


^^^^^^^^^^^iJtr^ ' ^^^l^l^l 


^^^^^1 


■ 


^^^^^^^V M4,JB^v .. J '■''^''^^&M*v 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^1 


^^^H 


^^^^P^ • ^ I^F^^l^^^H 


H 


^^^^^B ffft*?''^]8PJK ''■' >^Ett t^^Hcl^iiJlHi^C^^^^^^^I 


H 


^^^■.^^^lipgl/& '^ ^ffanPuff ^^^^^^^^^ 


^^B 


H^^i^^^^S^mI 


H 


^^^^H '^^HP^ ~» 2^^8 '^t mk". iwB'-'^m ^"i WgwCB^^B 


Kr^It- 


^^B'-' ^^«^fe;;^||f4^^jg£Sii hBSSSS^ 


1 


^^H ' ^'"^^fiit^'S ^ .» '|h;|^;:;H^|bI ]|^^ 


t . 


^^B^ "^^EsS S 'lPli^lB^^-'-'^:^M^I ii§»( 


■ 


^^K:. : : -i^^^ B fi-'n^K-^^^'-'fi^B^lPBI 


^^^^^B 


^^■^i ^B*^P >sLi^^M^^^F''^--'^S'^ffini^^ 


^^B 


^^^^^^B K^Sk > t \^9 ' ^K ' S^r ^' i'^^^'s^' CT^^lHt .':'By.'*'B»pmyll 


^H 


^^^^^ES^9e « ^"S^^^ltBs ' • WnSr "^» ^mMMTO^^ 


^H 


^H^^^^^K '' A . »-• ■ )^Hf -•■-^5.'t>'JBBR.-MJKMB''>' -J 


^H 


^^^^^^BHBE-. .: -•,^^ - apt . j^^Bg - ^.<:: ^^^Hft^ffTS^^fl^K - ^^ 


^H 


^Ha/lv^^ ''^•' - .^tf^»- •f::^amUm^Ktf?>9rk aM 


^^^^^1 




^^B 


H^llTl'JP^HI 


■ 






mim 





ieportof U. S. Nationa Museum, 1900. — Hoirtifs. 



Plate 7. 




ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN CALIFORNIA. 169 

she lived and carried on her share of the family drudgery. She ground 
acorns on a flat stone disk set in the jrround near the middle of her 
shelter, and by the side of this was a slight depression in the hard 
earth used as a hearth. She boiled the porridge outside hy heating 
small stones in an open fire and lifting them into the cooking baskets 
with a pair of neatly trimmed and pointed pine sticks about 5 feet in 
length. Wiien the water was boiled the stones were removed with 
other sticks, and when the porridge became somewhat firm it was 
dip})cd out with a cup into another ])asket and was ready for use. This 
food was not at all unpalata))le, as it had been deprived of the liitter 
taste of the acorn by leaching. This process consists in scooping out 
a depression in a bed of sand, into which the meal is poured and soaked 
with water until the bitterness is absorbed by the sand. The gruel is 
then taken up and is ready for cooking. The baskets used were of 
exceHent make and tastefully ornamented. By dint of long l)aro-5iin- 
ing and insisting we were able to secure half a dozen examples of the 
good woman's handiwork. Some of these are shown in Plates 5, 6, and 
7. They are typical specimens of the basketry of this portion of Cali- 
fornia, and seem to combine some of the characteristics of the basket 
work of the surrounding tribes. They are new, and we were quite un- 
al)le t()])uy the baskets in present use. We were shown one feather- 
decorated piece, said to have been made b}" an aunt of the young 
woman of the household at some distant point. It was valued ver}" 
highly, having been a gift, and we could not secure it. It was stated 
that the use of feathers was not common among the American River 
tribes. Some of their carrying baskets and the gleaning paddles and 
meal-fanning trays, they informed us. Avere of Paiute make. 

A very interesting mealing outfit was encountered on the hillside 
a])()ve the dwelling and near the margin of the mine. It had been 
deserted for some time, but the poles of the shelter were still in place. 
There were four or five shallow mortars worked on the surface of a 
rock even with the surrounding ground, and sixteen hand stones, com- 
prising numerous shapes ranging from a flat ovoid ru])bing stone to 
a well-formed and symmetric pestle. We were also shown an acorn- 
cracking outfit, consisting of a small round stone with a shallow pit on 
the upper surface for resting the acorn and a globular stone for 
striking. The acorn is set on end to receive the blow. Stones of 
various shapes are used, according to the supph' on hand, and in the 
a])seni-e of suital)le stones the cracking is done with the teeth. Detiiils 
of the grinding and other operations are given a little farther on. 

On the bottom of the mine, 200 feet beneath the spot occupied by 
the mealing place just described, we found a large stone having a deep 
conical mortar on one side. It had evidently fallen in from a])ove, and 
had probably escaped the attention of seekers after evidence of Ter- 
tiarv man. 



170 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

The dwellincr of Porter, the headman of the small group of native 
families in this vicinity, is a short distance below the mine. It is of 
rude construction, and is distinguished from the ordinary dwellings b}^ 
its circular shape and radiating clapboard roof. Similar houses were 
encountered in Calaveras County, and an illustration is given in Plate 
8. They are probably the communal or council houses, or survivals 
of these. 

TUOLUMNE TABLE MOUNTAIN REGION. 

From Forest Hill we returned to Colfax, and were soon in San 
Francisco. From this place visits were made to other points of inter- 
est. Another excursion to the auriferous gravel region was made, by 
way of Stockton, Oakdale, and Jamestown. At Jamestown we were 
within easy reach of many interesting points ethnologicall}^ and archaio- 
logically. This district includes Tuolumne Table Mountain and the 
mining towns of Sonora, Murphj^s, and Angels, and has furnished 
much of the testimony upon which the theory of an auriferous gravel 
man has been supported. In recent centuries it has been occupied by 
a numerous population of the Sierra tribes. The finds in the aurifer- 
ous gravels are fully discussed in a paper already referred 'to, and I 
need here mention them but casually, giving chief attention to the 
remnants of native population scattered here and there in small 
bands over the hills and along the valleys. Half a mile south of 
Jamestown we encountered a small a))original community occupying 
half a dozen houses, built in the main of sawed lumber and fairly com- 
fortable. The people were carrying on the usual acorn industry, 
using utensils of native make and grinding and preparing the meal in 
the native way, but otherwise showing many indications of contact 
with the whites. 

A second communitj': of like character and proportions was located 
a mile to the west, on the slopes of Table Mountain. These people 
showed indications of thrift, and their simple arts were carried on 
under the shade of their own vine and fig tree. One man, exhibiting 
traces of negro blood, and having a wife quite half white, was engaged 
in rounding the ends of the shingles to be used in giving an ornamental 
effect to the walls of his house. It is said that in this district, when 
the mines were being extensively worked and a large w^hite population 
filled the country, there were also large numbers of Indians gathered 
on the outskirts of the towns, ten or a hundred times more than are 
found in the vicinity at the present time. 

Ancient village sites are numerous, and old native burial places are 
commoti. At Springfield, 10 miles north of Jamestown, an old miner 
named John Cannon had two well-shaped globular mortars in his 
back yard. These were so highly valued by Mrs. Cannon as recep- 
tacles for watering the chickens that we had difficulty in securing one 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 900.— Hoimes. 



Plate 




Native Village at Murphys. 




Shelter for Summer use, near Murphys. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 900. —Holmes. 



Plate 9. 





Stone Mortars from Stanislaus and Mokelumne Valleys. 

DiamettT of ciK-li lOi iiK'lics. 



i 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN CALIFORNIA. 171 

of them (Plate 9^/), Mr, Cannon stated that he found them several 
3'ears ago in a mine on Mormon Creek near ])y. They were embedded 
in auriferous gravels 5 or 6 feet deep, and at the same place, but a 
little deeper, he uncovered a number of skeletons, accompanied by 
various relics — implements of stone and ornaments of shell. That the 
burials Averc comparatiA^eh" recent is indicated by the fact that the hair 
of the scalps was well preserved. From Patrick Shine, a little farther 
on, I secured a flattish, plate-like mortar, some 8 inches in diameter 
and of usual type, that he declared had been obtained from a mine on 
his place at a depth of SO feet. 

Old village sites were found at Saw Mill Flat, S miles northeast of 
Jamestown, on the brink of a deserted mine, and at the entrance to the 
tiuuiel of Montezuma mine, on Table Mountain, 3 miles southwest of 
Jamestown. Near Columbia, Avhich was a great mining center in the 
early days, there is a large granite outcrop, exhibiting a considerable 
group of mortars of the usual form, sunk in the surface. 

The journe}^ from Jamestown to Murph^^s and Angels gave us the 
0})portunit3" of crossing the valley of the Stanislaus at two points — 
Rol)inson and Parrott ferries — and the impression made on our minds 
bv the gorge of the American Fork was strengthened })y the experi- 
ence. The proposition necessarily entertained by believers in aurif- 
erous gravel man that these vast valleys with their lofty and wide- 
spreading walls have been eroded within the human period seems too 
preposterous to be entertained. The descents are made b^- well-kept 
roads, but the way is long and often precipitous, and the scenery is 
exceedingly impressive. 

On the plateau beyond the canyon the limestone belt begins, ^nd as 
a result canyons, caverns, and natural bridges are common. Near 
Murphys a visit was made to Mercer's cave, which is entered b}'^ a 
contracted irregular opening descending almost verticall}' and expand- 
ing into a series of irregular crevice-like chambers, the result of the 
solution of a particular limestone stratum by underground waters. 
Through the appreciative courtesv of Mr. W. J. Mercer we were able 
to examine the cavern and to dig for human remains in the debris 
directly beneath the opening. A few fragments only were found, but 
Mr. jVIercer had previously secured some skulls and other portions of 
skeletons. They were not old and were not coated with calcareous 
matter, having been buried but a short time in the loose earth which 
had fallen in from the opening. One of these skulls was presented to 
the U. S. National Museum l)y Mr. Mercer, and the result of an 
examination 1)}^ Dr. George A. Dorsey shows that it resembles very 
closely the so-called Calaveras skidl of Whitney.^ 

At a considerable depth, and not directly beneath the opening, we 
were shown portions of a skeleton of some large animal. Some frag- 

^ Smithsonian Report, 1899, p. 465. 



1Y2 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

ments were securod and examined l\y Mr. F. A. Lucas, of the U. S. 
National Museum, who found them to belong to a gigantic sloth, one 
of the Tertiary Mylodons. Mr. Mercer says that about 2 miles beyond 
the cavern there is a ])urial pit from which he previously obtained 
human bones and obsidian implements. 

On the partially wooded ridge overlooking Murph3^s on the north 
and within half a mile of the cav^e, we came upon an Indian village, 
comprising iialf a dozen dwelling houses and the usual accompaniment 
of sunnncr shelters and milling places. Two of the houses are shown 
in Plate S. They are round and upward of 25 feet in diameter. The 
walls are formed of planks and the roof is covered with clapboards 
radiating from a conical, shingled chimney. The framework is of 
poles and the construction does not differ essentially from that of the 
aboriginal round-house of many tribes. The men and women all 
appeared to be busy with domestic affairs, the work being conducted 
in a large roofed structure, open at the sides; and in a Jttle conical 
shelter made of sticks and brush, on the slope below the village, we 
found two old women pounding acorns. 

In one of the houses was quite a store of basketry, some of the 
pieces evidently homemade, but others the work of the Paiute and 
other neighboring tribes. Within the group of houses was an inter- 
esting granary — a tall wattle work receptacle resting upon a stem of 
wood and further supported by four marginal poles. Its purpose was 
no doubt to place the crop of acorns, corn, or other '^ood material 
beyond the reach of rats and pigs. 

A single family, the remnant of a larger community, is located on 
the Adams place, a little to the eastward of the village of Murphj^s, 
and a small village was encountered on the road from Vallecito to 
Angels, a few miles south of Murphy s. Here I procured some photo- 
graphs of a rather comely Indian woman engaged in th^ arduous task 
of grinding acorns, her interesting family of three children entering 
prominently into the pictures (Plates 12 and 13). Plates 10 and 11 serve 
to illustrate two of the first steps in the acorn industry, the carrying 
and hulling of the acorns, and the use of the mealing plate in grinding. 
The upper view in Plate 12 shows the miller as she sits oyer the crater- 
like cone of pulverized acorns with the heavy pestle raised in front of 
her face. As the pestle descends into the center of the heap, spread- 
ing it out over the margin of the mortar, one hand or the other is 
freed and deftly rakes the meal toward the center of the stone again 
and joins the other hand to raise the stone, the whole movement being 
so rapid that there is no pause in the operation of pounding. The 
shallow mortar, formed of a flattish stone, is planted in the ground 
even with the surface, and the meal spreads out on the firmly -impacted 
soil. The basket receptacle for the meal, covered with the fanning 
basket tray, is at her right hand, and the children, engaged in play, 



Report of U. 5. National Museum, 1 900.— Holmes. 



Plate 10. 




Carrying and hulling Acorns. 



Report of U. S. National Museum 1 900,— Holmes. 



Plate 11. 




Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 12. 




.1. Pounding Acorns in Mortar. 




B. Sifting the Meal separating the coarse Particles by shaking. 



Report of U. S. National Museum. 1 900.— Holmes. 



Plate 13. 




A. Removing coarse Particles from Edge of Basket. 







^ 


^^^^^^^V ' 1 wt.^. - ' 


]}i-' 


'-'^j^l 




■||r 


i||^^^H 


^^^H^^^^^Ka 


i**^"''**' ^^^^^ 


&^^H 




^^^^BHi ^ ^'^njf 


Ji^^^^^H^^^^^^^H 



/.'. Resting from the Work. 



Report of U, S. Naiional Museum, 1900.— Holmes 



Plate 14. 




.1. Cleaning the Meal by shaking and blowing. 



I 



T. 



I 




,V^u^^t G(\LL 



n. Pouring Meal into Sand Bed for leaching. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 15. 




.1. Lifting hot Stones into Basket of Water. 




i;. Remj.im, Si'jnes from Basket of Water. 



I 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN CALIFORNIA. l78 

are on her left. Two mealing stones are seen in the foreground, which 
combine the functions and shape of both muUer and pestle. The ends 
are used as a pestle for pulverizing (Plate 12 </), and the slightly Hattish 
sides are fashioned for rubbing (Plate 11). In the lower picture (Plate 
12 h), the woman is engaged in tossing the meal in the fanning basket, 
se])arating the husks and brushing them off at one side. The partially 
tilled ))asket of meal is seen on her right. In the upper picture (Plate 
13) the meal has been nearly all c^leaned up and the basket receptacle 
is well tilled with the line flour. In the lower picture (Plate 13) a 
curious change has come over the scene. B}' some misadventure the 
woman became conscious of the fact that the visitors were taking her 
picture and ceased to work, appearing frightened, for the}' all seem 
to know what the little black kodak box means and seriously object to 
being photographed. As a rule it was unsafe to show the camera 
among these people, for in a moment there would be a general disap- 
pearance and a necessarv cessation of friendly conununication and 
trade. Behind the miller in the last picture two stone mortars may 
))e seen set in the ground. Formerly there was a considerable group 
of milling stones here, but at the time of our visit the shelter had been 
removed and the mill had apparently been for some time neglected. 

I introduce here four other pictures, illustrating successive steps in 
the work of preparing the acorns for food. The upper view, Plate Ittrt, 
shows the process of clearing the meal of chaff b}- tossing and blowing. 
Plate 1-i/v is intended to illustrate the process of leaching the meal in a 
bed of sand. The boiling in baskets is shown in Plate 15, a and h. 

The houses in this rancheria, three or four in number, are built, as 
usual, of slab walls and clapboard roofs. The lower view, Plate 8, 
shows one of the brush shelters or summer houses under which the 
family sits and most of the domestic work is carried on. Here, as else- 
where, there is a distressing admixture of tinware, ovens, etc., with the 
native utensils. The on!}' man seen in the place was a strong, swarthy 
individual, who took no notice whatever of the visitors, being absorbed 
in the task of filing a crosscut saw. 

COLLECTIONS IN SAN FRANCISCO AND VICINITY. 

There are man}- collections of archsological and ethnological objects 
in California, but altogether they inadequate!}' represent the rich field 
so conveniently at hand. There has been little systematic collection, 
and a splendid opportunity has been lost. The vast accumulations of 
wealth for which the coast is noted have accrued to those who had no 
appreciation of the native history of the coast or who lacked the public 
spirit to endow museums. The future Californian will realize this 
more fully and regretfully than the Californian of to-day.^ 

' Fortunately the statement here made is no longer true. Subsequent to the stereo- 
typing of this pai)er it is announced that ]Mrs. Phoebe Hearst has provided liberally 
for anthropological researches, to be under the direction of the University of California. 



174 REPORT OK NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Ill Siin Friiiu'isco the (Toldcii (riitc Museum has ucijui red considerable 
material, portions of which are well identified and of \alue to science, 
but Curator Wilcomb has not been able to give any considerable time 
or funds to collection. The Acadeni}^ of Sciences also has a large col- 
lection, but so heterogeneous in character and so deficient in assochited 
data as to be of no great anthropological value. Private collectors 
have done good work in limited fields, and I refer with pleasure to the 
ver}' valuable collection of baskets brought together b}' Mr. and 
Mrs. C. F. Briggs. 

The State Universit}^ at Berkele}' has not attempted to acquire col- 
lections, l)ut has had placed in its care a large munber of stone imple- 
ments and utensils brought together by Mr. C. D. Voy and attributed 
in the main to the auriferous gravels of the central districts of the 
State.' The Stanford University has made a very credita))le eliort to 
gather and preserve the precious relics of native art, but so far has 
not been able to enlist the services of curators competent to give the 
collections standing as scientific material.' Such collections as I was 
able to examine in other parts of the State are referred to in connec- 
tion with notes relating to the localities to which they pertain. 

POMO RESERVATION, MENDOCINO COUNTY. 

From San Francisco a run was made north to Ukiah, in Mendocino 
County, the chief object being to pay a visit to Dr. J. W. Hudson and 
have a look at his collection of basketr}^ reputed to be one of the 
finest in the West. While at Ukiah we had the opportunit}" of visiting 
two villages of the Pomo Indians (Kulanapan linguistic family), who 
are among the most interesting tribes of the region. Their dwellings 
are roughly constructed of frame and weatherboarding, and must be 
comparatively comfortable, save in severe winter weather. Little trace 
is seen of aboriginal construction or modes of life. The ruin of a 
large earth lodge, used formerl}' for ceremonial purposes, is found 
in one of the villages. It is illustrated in Plates 16 and 17. 

The people have not entirely lost their nomadic habits, and at cer- 
tain seasons wander in small bands along the rivers and over the 
mountains, hunting, fishing, and gathering fruits and seeds, carrying 
their possessions on their backs, and putting up simple brush shelters 
for protection against the weather. 

These Indians are past masters in l)asket making, and Doctor Hud- 
son, in his twent}^ years of practice in the vicinity and his frequent 
visits to the villages, has had exceptional opportunities for making 

*I have to acknowledge the kind assistance of Professor J. C. Merriam, curator of 
the State University collections, in my study of these relics. 

^To Prof. John C. Branner, of this institution, I am greatly indebted for data relating 
to the auriferous gravel finds. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Hoir 



Plate 16. 




Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 900.— Holmes. 



Plate 17. 








Construction of Pomo Buildings 

Prawn by Dr. J. W. Hudson. 



Report of U. S. National Museum. 1900— Holmes. 



Plate 18. 




o ~ 



i 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 900.— Holmes. 



Plate 19. 




Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 20. 




Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes 



Plate 21. 




.1. PoMO Woman making a Basket. Primitive Costume. 




j:. Pomo Men making Shell Beads— grinding and drilling. Primitive Costume. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 22. 




.i. PoMO Woman with carrying Basket. 




i:. PoMo Woman Pounding Acorns in Mortar with Basket Hopper. Primitive 

Costume. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN CALIFORNIA. 175 

collections. He has gathered only choice pieces, and among these are 
many feather-decorated specimens of exceptional ])eaiity. Arrange- 
ments were made for securing this collection for the Smithsonian 
Institution, and before the end of the year it was forwarded to Wash- 
ington. I will not attempt to describe it. leaving that pleasant task 
to Professor Mason, who has made minute studies of that branch of 
native art, and, with the help of the carefully prepared notes of Doctor 
Hudson, a valuable contribution may be expected. In Plates 18, 19, 
and '20 a few notable specimens are shown. They serve for com- 
parison with the Sierra Indian and Tulare work, illustrated in other 
portions of this paper. 

I was interested in watching the women making baskets, Plate 21 «, 
and the men grinding and drilling clam-shell wampun, Plate 21 b. 
These people rely very largely on the acorn for their food, and the 
carrying basket, Plate 22 ^r, and the mortar and pestle, Plate 22 b, are 
constantly in evidence. The drawings represent the people in their 
native costumes, which have, however, been superseded in recent years 
by trousers and calico gowns. 

The following interesting notes, furnished Professor Mason ]\v Doc- 
tor Hudson, relate to Pomo bread making, dress, and forms of the 
drill: 

Indian corn, or maize, is not indigenous west of the Sierra Mountains^, and is not 
and never was used by our "Diggers." Acorns, buckeyes, and weed seed (about 
twenty-tive varieties), notably the tar weed {Madaria sp. ), also berries of a num- 
l>er (pf plants, especially manzanita {AniosUtphylos (omeiitosa), madrona, wild rose, 
and mountain laurel, are their staples, important in the order mentioned. Teuni 
l)read is made of any of the eight varieties of acorns — Nuci, from Qiiercus agri- 
folin, and Tsupa, from Querent densifiora, being valued as the sweetest. The nuts are 
sun dried, then hulled, then reduced to flour by the stone pestle and basket mortar, 
and cleaned by frequent siftings. A shallow \)\t is made in fine sand and pressed 
smooth with the hands; the meal is poured in and covered with leaves of iris {Iris 
mncro»iphon). Fresh water is then poured on in quantities and the meal is stirred 
until it is thoroughly leached. Within an hour it can be gently lifted out in large 
pieces. Another pit is prepared for the oven, in which a fierce fire is started; stones 
the size of a smoothing iron are thrown in and, when very hot, half of them are 
taken out. The remainder form a griddle in the coals and are covered with wet 
leaves, oak and iris, on which the dough, which is the acorn meal mixed with 5 per 
cent of Masil, or red earth in solution; also sometimes the same amount of tar weed 
meal, Mako, is-evenly spread. Wet leaves are placed over this; then the hot stones; 
then about 6 inches of earth. In six or eight hours the oven is opened, disclosing a 
large, flat cake incrusted in leaves, and smelling somewhat like bread. The Masil, 
or red ceremonial yeast, has given a dark-red cast, while the Mako turns it almost 
black. The taste is not unpleasant. It is flavored with an impure salt gathered 
either on the coast or at a spring on Eel River. 

Buckeye Disa: The nuts are roasted in hot rocks, hulled and peeled with a deer- 
rib knife, then mashed in a basket with a heavy billet, like a giant potato masher, 
I )isai)awohai, then leached as above, and in the form of paste eaten hot or cold. 

I'inole (Spanish) or To-o is a mush of acorn meal, leached of course, mixed with 
a percentage of other seed meals, boiled in a Tee or Bamtoosh basket by dropping hot 
NAT MUS 1900 12 



17() REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

round stones into it until the contents are cooked. It has the consistency of mush, 
and is (luite insipid. Wheat is now often substituted. It is toasted in a plaque with 
live coals, then mortared out into flour and cooked as above. 

Other cakes are Mako, Malalkato, Bimu, named from constituents and methods 
of preparing. Yuhu is a coarse, unpalatable cake made from acorns {Quercus 
li'islizoti). 

All of the above except the wheaten cakes are of ancient origin. 

The ordinary aboriginal dress of a man was a skirt, Kauxi, of the bark of a willow 
{Siiiix n'ujra), or of l)ulrush stems shredded. A mantle of skin, panther preferred, is 
tied over the shoulders and belted at the waist. A thick chaplet of mountain laurel 
covers the head. The woman has a deerskin mantle or chemise above and the 
Kauxi below; the head is usually bare. She sits generally on a tule mat at her 
work; the man kneels when drilling wampum, or at like labor. 

The pump drill was introduced into Ukiah Valley by a Spaniard in the early 
seventies, and was carried into Potter Valley about the year 1876 by old blind 
George, now living. The aboriginal tool was called Dawihai (da win, to bore, hai, a 
stick), and was a straight shaft of wood, 2 feet long and half an inch in diameter at the 
middle [twirled between the palms of the hands]. The drill point was of jasper or 
flint, and fastened to the shaft by a lashing of hemp {Apocynum cannahinum), and 
coated with pitch. Its origin is beyond tradition. 

STOCKTON DISTRICT. 

Early reports on the antiquities of California somewhat casualh'' 
mention the occurrence of mounds in various parts of the State. 
Later investigations have furnished definite knowledge of the shell 
mounds and kitchen-middens along- the coast, and of the earthworks in 
the interior valleys. Quite recentl}^ a new chapter has been added to 
the history of al)original California as a result of researches among the 
mounds of the great inland basins, including the valleys of the Sacra- 
mento and San Joaquin rivers and the basins of Tulare Lake and Kern 
River. These earthworks were erected by a much simpler and less 
ambitious people than the mound-builders of the Mississippi Valley. 
They are scattered over the low lands, mainly in the tule flats, where 
annual inundations are or were common. They are not arranged in 
any systematic order and show none of the specialization of form char- 
acterizing the mounds of the east or of Mexico and Central America 
on the south. They are roundish in outline and rarelv more than 10 
or 12 feet in height, although a few are reported to reach 20 feet; the 
profiles are gently rounded as a result of the crumbling nature of the 
earth of which thej^ are composed (Plate 23 a), and the area covered is 
often quite extensive. It appears that in the main they were erected 
primarily for domiciliary purposes and as places of retreat in time of 
overflow. They were also used as burial places, though probably not 
originally erected for this purpose, and a few are literally filled with 
human remains (Plate 23 h). 

The exceptional environment furnished l)y these interior valleys has 
evidently given rise to a somewhat peculiar phase of local culture, 



Report of U. S. National Museunr 1 900.— Hoimes. 



Plate 23. 




.1. Mound near Stockton. 




B. Exposure of Skeletons in Mound, Stockton. 

From ph(>t().s<ra]>lis l)y Mr. H. C. Mereilith. 



Report of U. S. National Museun'.. 1 900.— Holmes. 



Plate 24. 




A. Cylindrical Steatite 
Vessel, from Stockton 
Mounds. 

H.uT (.•uUfction. 





Ji. Shell Ornaments, from Stockton 
Mounds. 
Barr colk-clion. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 25. 




Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 300.— Holmes. 



Plate 26. 




Clay Pellets for use in Slings, Stockton Mounds. 
About thn-f-fourths actnal size. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes 



Plate 27. 




Clay Pellets for use in Slings. Stockton Mounds. 

About three- fourths actual size. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 900.— Holmes. 



Plate 28. 




A. Clay Pellets and Ornaments, Stockton Mounds. 




V'|vA^AII#, r. ,.vv.,.(|,y,H,^||p|l^^l^\1^'^^ 







V'. Decorated Bone Implements, Stockton Mounds. 

Mori'ditli collection. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN CALIFORNIA. 177 

differing from that of the coastal belt on the west and from the foot- 
hills and sierra on the east. There was a tendency toward sedentary 
life, fostered, no doubt, liy an unfailing food supply, which consisted 
of lish and waterfowl in great plenty, and many vegetable products, 
including acorns, seeds, roots, and various kinds of fruit. The occur- 
rence of inundations in the lowlands must have interfered to some 
extent with full .sedentation, the people being driven periodically into 
the higher plains and foothills. 

It seems likelj^ that the earthworks scattered along these valleys 
were l)uilt b}' one or more of the tribes found in possession — the 
Wintun, the Maidu, the Mutsun, the Yokuts, and the Shoshone 
(Powers) — since neither the works themselves, their contents, nor the 
miscellaneous artifacts of the valley present features discordant with 
the condition and achievements of these peoples. I believe that no 
important distinction has been drawn between the implements and 
utensils of the mounds and those of the surface of the country gener- 
ally. The osseous remains exhibit no novel or distinctive features. 

Implements and utensils have a wide range in form and in the 
classes represented, but withal are simple in character and indicate no 
unusual advance in culture. They include mortars, milling plates, 
pestles, and rubbing stones, of usual range of form, cylindrical steatite 
vases of local t3^pe (Plate 24«), stone pipes, rings, discoidal stones, 
grooved pebbles, and flaked implements of many forms. Certain 
obsidian implements of the Stockton district present exceptional char- 
acters (Plate :25). There are also tools of bone and shell and ornaments 
in great variety. There are many objects of baked clay, globular, 
discoidal, dumb-bell shape, etc., some of which may have served for 
use in slings (Plates 26, 27a and 28). This use of clay balls is noted as 
occurring among some of the modern tribes. The artistic sense was 
evidenth^ not greatly developed among these people, as attested by 
the almost entire absence of the carving or engraving of life forms. 
In Plate 28 ?> a number of bone implements obtained from these 
mounds and tastefully decorated with incised workings are shown. 
They are. for the most part, whistles, or flutes, and correspond closely 
with similar objects found in mounds and middens along the Cali- 
fornia coast. Among the pendant ornaments of abalone shell are 
specimens representing, apparently, a double-headed bird, suggesting 
the doul)le-headcd eagle of European nations (Plate 24 h), but the 
conception is quite as likely to be of purely native origin. In general 
the contents of the mounds include few relics of recent origin. 

Enterprising archaeologists in Stockton have made valuable col- 
lections from the mounds of the neighboring lowlands. Mr. H. C. 
Meredith has published a number of articles describing and illustrat- 
ing his explorations and finds, and Mr. J. A. Barr has made a most 
valuable collection, chiefly from local mounds. Prof. Edward Hughes, 



178 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

of the city schools, htis also tukcii a deep interest in local archaeology 
and kindly drov^c out with our party to the neighboring flats, where a 
number of mounds were examined. 

The objects shown in the accompanying plptes belong to the 
Stockton collections or were presented to the U. S. National Museum 
by Stockton collectors. Brief descriptions are given in connection 
with the plates and more detailed information may be obtained from 
the writings of Mr. Meredith.^ 

TULARE RESERVATION, TULARE COUNTY. 

On our way south from San Francisco to Los Angeles we made it a 
point to stop at Porterville, in Tulare County, long enough to pay a 
visit to the Tulare Indians'^ located on South Fork of Tule River, 20 
miles eastward from the village. Their reservation was originally 
situated on the fertile lowlands where the river valley opens out upon 
the plain, but this land was acquired by the whites and is now largely 
under cultivation. The Indians were removed to the upper valley, 
where they now dwell in comfortable, though simple, frame houses. 
Here the narrow, rocky banks of the river rise abruptly into massive 
and precipitous mountains. It is indeed a secluded and lonely spot, 
an ideal retreat for the humble remnant of a people once laying claim 
to the broad, rich lowlands now traversed by railways and dotted with 
incipient cities. The houses are scattered at short intervals for 2 or 3 
miles along the valley. A little farming is done and some stock is 
kept, and there is a school near the agent's residence, attended at the 
present time by twentv or thirty children. 

Near the upper end of the reservation a most interesting spot, known 
as Painted Rock, or The Painted Rocks, was visited. Here the little 
stream is confined to a narrow gorge bordered by enormous masses of 
granite, over which the torrents pour in the wet season. At the sides, 
however, there is enough comparatively level ground to accommodate 
dwellings and small fields. This site, it appears, was a favorite resort 
of the native peoples, the Tulares or their predecessors, for a long 
period of years. The protected surfaces of the great granite blocks 
are still covered with s3anbolic paintings in bright colors, and some of 
the flatter exposed surfaces are pitted with mortar basins wherein the 
women of many generations have come to grind acorns and seeds. In 
Plate 29 are shown two excellent illustrations of one of these milling 
places, there being between forty and fifty more or less deeply sunken 
conical mortars visible. Another large, rounded mass near by con- 
tains upward of seventy-five of these pits, varying from shallow 
basins or incipient mortars to conical depressions a foot in depth. 

1 H. C. Meredith in Moorehead's Prehistoric Implements, p. 258; Land of Sun- 
shine, October, 1899; American Archaeologist, II, p. 310. 

'•'The Yokuts of Powers. Tribes of California, Contributions to North American 
Ethnology, III, p. 369. 



I 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Holmes. 



Plate 29. 





Mortar Rock. Tulare Reservation. 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN CALIFORNIA. l79 

Portions of this rock are now covered with soil, so that a number of 
the mortars are probably hidden. Possibly some of the depressions 
may orio-inally have been pot holes, worn by the descending waters of 
the cascade, but all are now manifestly artificial in contour. The 
present inhabitants do not appear to use these particular mills, but 
employ mortars, both fixed and portable, in the immediate vicinit}^ of 
their dwellings. This ma}" be the group of mortars referred to by 
Powers, who says that ''in remote times they were accustomed to rub 
their acorns to flour, on a stone slightly hollowed, like the Mexican 
metate, which was a suggestion of the Mouse, l>ut nowada3's they 
pound them in holes on top of huge bowlders, which was a suggestion 
of the wiser Co3"ote. On a bowlder in Coarse Gold Gulch I counted 
86 of these acorn holes, which shows that they nmst have been used 
many centuries." ^ 

M}^ own feeling about this matter is that the metate is a late rather 
than an early form of the millstone, since these great groups of mor- 
tar pits must be very old, and the mortars dug up at considerable 
depths in this valley as well as elsewhere are generally globular. I 
was especially interested in observing that the process of shaping stone 
by pecking with hammers is known to the Tulares. Some specimens 
show recent work, and inquiry of Mr. flames Alto elicited the state- 
ment that the women shaped mortars and pestles in this way, employ- 
ing " daj's pecking and pecking.'^ 

At one of the dwellings, which had the appearance of an ordinary, 
comfortable farmhouse, the entire family was engaged in thrashing 
and cleaning up the recently harvested crop of beans. Plate 30 shows 
the man threshing with a flail, while the women are seen separating 
the beans from the hulls ])X fanning in shallow basket trap's. From 
the old woman of the household — the grandmother — who seemed to be 
owner of all domestic articles, we secured baskets, stone boiling sticks, 
mortars, and pestles. The large, roundish mortar shown in Plate 31 
was in use by one of the women, but we were told that this piece had 
been found at a depth of several feet in digging an irrigating trench; 
that it was very old, and belonged, thev believed, to peoples that had 
preceded the Tulares. However, such mortars, as well as others of 
varying form, were seen in use on the reservation. 

The manner of using snares in capturing pigeons is shown in Plate 
32. Roundish earthen platforms from 5 to 8 feet in diain(^ter are con- 
structed among the great bowlders in favorable locations, on which are 
set willow-twig loops for securing decoy l)irds. At oiuMuargin of the 
platform a brush or reed shelter is built, in which the man with the 
snares hides himself. The loops of the snares lie extended upon 
the platform, and when the birds, alighting to feed with the decoys, 

^Tribes of California, Contributions to 2sorth American Etlinology, III, p. 376. 



180 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

become entangled thej^ are quietly withdrawn beneath the shelter find 
secured (Plate 32 h). The lower illustration, r/, shows James Alto, the 
reservation policeman, emerging upon the platform from the shelter. 
Powers mentions the use of snares, probably of this class. He says 
that "for snaring quail, rabbits, and other small game they employed 
cords made of a kind of 'wild flax' found in the Sierras. 1 presume 
this ' wild flax ' is milkweed {Asclepias).'''' In Plate 33 a we have a draw- 
ing of one of the snares and in h a game basket of peculiar form. In 
the same plate are included a pair of wooden fire sticks or tongs, c, and 
a looped stick for lifting stones from the boiling baskets, d. The native 
scrubbing brushes and the yucca bulbs from which the}' are made are 
illustrated in Plate 34. 

At one of the houses near the pictured rocks I was so fortunate as 
to obtain parts of a ceremonial costume, consisting of a feather head- 
dress, ear ornaments, thorn needle with asphaltum head, etc. . shown 
in Plate 35. The importance attached to these articles was made 
apparent by the care with which the}" were wrapped up in especially 
prepared coverings and hidden away. There was also a more complete 
costume in possession of one of the men of the family, but this could 
not be secured. It included the primitive skirt made of long strands, 
forming a fringe, upon which are strung pine nuts and beads. It was 
said that these were parts of old time ceremonial dance costiunes, 
still used on great festal occasions. 

The Tulares are among the most expert of basket makers. Plate 
36 illustrates three winnowing baskets, and Plates 37 and 38 three 
bowl shaped pieces of excellent qualit}'. The tine specimen shown in 
Plate 39 a and I and Plate 40 was obtained from the good woman, 
Mrs. Pedro Tennis, who had just completed it. The low, flat-topped 
bottle form is apparently' peculiar to this tribe. Occasionallv a piece 
is seen much flatter in the body than this specimen. The workmanship 
and aesthetic treatment are of a high order, and the deteriorating 
influence of modei'n conditions is seen only in the use of red worsted, 
which I suppose takes the place of red feathers of earlier times. The 
baskets in use to-day include also carrying baskets of usual California 
types. 

The native names for the basket-making materials and for the various^ 
articles illustrated in the accompanying plates are not given for the 
reason that 1 had no time to verify the data secured from James Alto, 
although he seems a thoroughly honest and intelligent man. 

1 was particularly anxious to secure one of their gambling trays, 
which are large, flat basket plaques, but the last specimen in the 
vallej'-, so it was said, had recently been carried away b}' a collector. 
We were so fortunate, however, as to secure an unusually old and fine 
example through the courtesy of Mr. and Mrs. C. F. Briggs, of San 
Francisco, who had o])tained it from an old woman living on a ran- 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Holmes. 



Plate 30. 





Thrashing and winnowing Beans, Tulare Indians. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 31. 




Mortar and Pestle in use by Tulare Indians. 

DiniiU'tiT (if mortar 10 iiu-lifs. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 32. 





Pigeon snaring, Tulare Indians. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Holmes. 



Plate 33. 







D 

Impleme.>its, Tulare Indians. 
A, Pigeon .snaro: ]{, game basket; C, wooden lire toiig.s; D, looped boiling sticks. 



i 



eoort of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 34. 




Report of U. S National Museum 1900— Holmes. 



Plate 35. 




port of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 36. 




I S, 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 37. 





Bowl-shaped Baskets, Tulare Indians. 
Diameter 15 inches. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 38. 





Bowl-shaped Basket. Tulare Indians. 

DiuiiU'tcr 17 iiicln's. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 39. 





Bottle-shaped Basket, Tulare Indians. 
iJiiUiR'ter 11 iiirlifs. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 40. 




Bottle-shaped Basket, Tulare Indians. iView from beneath. 

Diaiiiftcr 1! iiiclies. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 41, 





Tulare Gambling Tray. 

DiamettT 2RJ inches. 



sport of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Holmes, 



Plate 42. 




ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN CALIFORNIA, 181 

cheria near Lenioorc, in Kings County, wlio parted witfci her treasure 
only after the strongest persuasion on the part of the visitors. It is 
shown in Plate 4:1. 

The following account of the game as played by the Tulares is 
(juoted from Mr. Stephen Powers: 

The Gualala ytyle of gambling prevails all over the State, but the Yokuts have 
another sort which i)ertains exclusively to the women. It is a kind of dice throw- 
ing, and is called u-chu-us. For a dice they take half of a large acorn or walnut 
shell, till it level with pitch and pounded charcoal, and inlay it with bits of bright- 
colored abalone shells. For a dice table they weave a very large, fine basket tray, 
almost fiat, and ornamented with devices woven in black or brown, mostly rude 
imitations of trees and geometrical figures. Four squaws sit around it to play, and 
a fifth keeps tally with fifteen sticks. There are eight dice, and they scoop them up 
in their hands and dash them into the basket, counting one when two or five flat 
surfaces turn up. 

The rapidity with whic^h the game goes forward is wonderful, and the players 
seem totally oblivious to all things in the world beside. After each throw that a 
player makes she exclaims yei-ni (equivalent to "one-y "), or rd-a-tak, or ko-inai-eh, 
which are simply a kind of sing-song or chanting. One old squaw, with scarcely a 
tooth in her head, one eye gone, her face all withered, but with a lower jaw of iron 
and features denoting extraordinary will — a reckless old gambler and evidently a 
teacher of the others — after each throw would grab into the basket and jerk her hand 
across it, as if by the motion of the air to turn the dice over before they settled, and 
ejaculate viatak! It was amusing to see the savage energy with which this fierce old 
hag carried on the game. The others were modest and spoke in low tones, but she 
seemed to be unaw^are of the existence of anybody around her.^ 

The account given by Mrs. Briggs is to the same effect. In Plate 
42 I venture to reproduce a drawing illustrating the use of the gaming 
tra}' as set forth so vi\'idh' in Mr. Powers's account. 

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA. 

Southern California has much to interest the student of archaeology 
as well as the traveler seeking an ideal countr3\ It is a region occu- 
pied formerl}' b}^ numerous and probably greath* diversified peoples, 
presenting, however, no great dissimilarity in culture. Their contact 
j on the east and south was with peoples lower in the scale of progress 
than themselves, and it appears that few elements of culture from the 
more distant regions ever crept in. A. small number of widely scat- 
tered aboriginal conununities still survive to the presert day, but pre- 
sent no ver}^ considera])le points of interest to the student, their original 
customs having been destroyed or greatly modified by mission rule. 

The region including Santa Barbara County and the group of islands 
lying off the coast is probably the richest, archa?ologically, in Califor- 
nia and furnishes vast numbers of artifacts of usual classes, among 
which the mortar and pestle predominate to a remarkable degree. A 

'Tribes of California. Contributions to North American Ethnology, U. S. Geo- 
graphical and Geological Survey of the Rocky Mountain Region, III, 1877, p. 377. 



182 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, KOO. 

number of entorprisino- collectors have occupied this field, and in Los 
Angeles ] had the pleasure of studying some fine collections made by 
Dr. F. M. Palmer, a type series, well arranged and labeled, being dis- 
played in the museum of the Chamber of Commerce. Mr. W. S. 
Campbell, a local dealer in Indian relics, has many interesting things, 
prominent among which are a number of rare and beautiful l^askets 
made by the Santa Ynez Indians, a tribe now approaching extinction. 
Other collections made by Rev. Stephen Bowers are partly in his own 
hands and partly in possession of Mr, H. N. Rust, of South Pasadena. 
In addition, a large and valuable collection, not, however, purely local, 
is owned by Mrs. A. C. Low, of Pasadena. Mr. Rust's collection also 
contains an interesting series of objects from an ancient village site in 
the suburbs of Pasadena, and he permits me to introduce here two 
plates, in which are seen a large number of the objects collected — 
Plates 43 and 44. In this collection there are no glo])ular mortars or 
cylindrical pestles, but numerous mealing plates showing extensive use, 
and man}^ oblong and discoid mullers. Several annular and stellar 
shaped stones are unique. The whole group seems to indicate a people 
related in many ways with the tribes of the Sierra. The village site 
from which the specimens illustrated were collected is situated on the 
bluff overlooking South Pasadena and on the line of Buena Vista 
street. When the grading of this street was under way Mr. Rust 
watched the work daily, saving more than a hundred implements and 
utensils. He was able even to locate some of the lodge sites by the 
larger number and greater variety of specimens found within limited 
areas. Besides th© stone implements shown in the plates, one bone 
awl and a tire stick were recovered. Few flaked implements are found 
in the Pasadena region, and there is no pottery, and burial places and 
human remains have been sought for in vain. 

At Santa Barbara I was permitted to examine a valuable collection 
made by Mr. L. G. Dreyfus, and the museum of the local historical 
society has many specimens of interest. The region has been explored 
by a number of scientific students, including Schumacher, Henshaw, 
Yarrow, and Yates. The principal village site at Santa Barbara is on 
the extreme end of a picturesque promontory at the lower end of the 
city, and the sea is slowly cutting it away. The location of the burial 
ground is indicated in the view presented in Plate 45 by a group of 
apple trees seen distinctly in the lower picture. Near by, on the low 
ground, is a large oblong mound, now occupied by a residence and 
believed by Mr. Dreyfus and others to be of artificial origin. 

From Los Angeles it is a short railway journey to San Pedro, on 
the coast, and a steamer voyage of 2.5 miles out into the Pacific carries 
one to Avalon, a village occupying an exquisitel}' picturesque little 
harbor near the east end of Santa Catalina Island. While at this place 
I had the opportunity- of examining two of the noted arch^ological 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 43. 




> :A 



Report of U. S. National Museum. 1900. — Holmes. 



Plate 44. 




Report of U. S. National Museurr, 1900. — Holmes. 



Plate 45. 





Views of Santa Barbara Point, the Site of a Prehistoric Cemetery. 



r 



ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN CALIFORNIA. 183 



sites of this island — the soapstone quarries of Potts Valley and the 
shell deposits of the isthmus. These sites were explored by Schu- 
macher many years ago, and the rich collections obtained b}^ him are 
now preserved in the museums at Washington and Cambridg-e. I need 
not do more in this place than briefly record my observations and 
impressions regarding these sites. 

Pearly in the morning of November 2, 1898, 1 set out on horseback 
with Mexican Joe as guide, to And the soapstone quarries some 10 
miles to the northwest. We climbed the steep slopes from Avalon, 
meandered the lofty sinuous crests of the island, passing across the 
shoulder of Black Jack — a mountain rising nearly 1,800 feet above 
the sea— and descended into Potts Valley, which, if my identification 
be correct, opens down to the sea on the north of the ridge. At many 
points we encountered outcrops of steatite, and evidences of ancient 
mining were apparent on all hands. There were shallow excavations 
and heaps of debris surrounded by fragments of partially shaped ves- 
sels and the rude stone picks, hammers, and chisels with which the 
({uarrying and shaping work was done. Near the site of the pi'incipal 
(|uarry reported upon by Schumacher there has been some recent 
quarrying by white settlers, but fortunately the outcrop from which 
the aborigines cut so many pots remains undisturbed. At the head of 
the shallow amphitheater of Potts Valle}^ which descends to the shore 
half a mile or more below, some great masses of rugged rock rise from 
the otherwise smooth slopes. Portions of these masses are composed 
of soapstone, and the surfaces from which lumjjs of soft rock were cut 
are in plain view. A vigorous growth of cactus plants covers the 
lower part of the exposure, but enough remains in sight to tell the 
st(jry of former enterprise. The scars left by the workmen extend 
over 100 or 500 square feet of the steep surfaces of the rocky mass, 
and the views shown in Plate 46 disclose the scars and chisel marks to 
excellent advantage. The work of removing the rounded masses of 
stone from which the vessels were to be shaped was identical in char- 
acter with that observed in the many soapstone quarries of the East- 
ern States, but so far as the markings now remaining show, the cutting- 
has been more skillful, and it seems not impro})al)le that the work in 
the examples illustrated has been done with metallic tools. It is rea- 
sonable to suppose that the trade in soapstone pots, carried on exten- 
sively between the islanders and the tribes of the mainland, continued 
to flourish for a considerable period after the coming of the white 
man, and in the latest work iron picks and shovels must have been 
used. Scattered about this rock and on the slopes above and })elow 
were fragments of partially shaped and broken vessels, besides numer- 
ous rude cutting tools and picks of hard stone. The latter implements 
had lieen shaped by flaking with hammer stones, some of which are 
distributed with the debris. 



184 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

My own contribution to the study of this interesting spot was the 
discovery of an ancient graveJ on the nearly level top of a rounded 
knoll some 40 or 50 feet above the upper quarry face. I happened to 
observe the broken edge of a soapstone platter projecting above the 
hard soil. In removing this specimen other objects were brought to 
light. Remnants of a skull and jawbone and numerous bones of the 
trunk were found, but all were so near the surface that they had been 
more or less dissociated and broken up. There were also parts of 
three or four steatite vessels, one small pot, a round shallow dish, two 
oblong dishes, and a liattish oblong plate with squared end, probably 
a baking plate. Other articles were evidently mere burial offerings 
made for the purpose and doubtless symbolic. They include a steatite 
hook of a form common in the region, a miniature pestle of steatite, 
a peculiar object, apparently a much conventionalized fish or finback 
whale, three handles of steatite utensils, apparently dipper handles, an 
obsidian arrow point, and some much decayed shell ornaments. A 
number of these objects are shown in Plate 47. 

The relation of the grave to the quarry face is shown in Plate 48. 
The figure in the foreground represents my companion engaged in 
exploring the grave, and the worked soapstone surface is behind him = 
at the right. Beyond are the rugged cliffs, with a bit of the sea 
visible at the left. 

My study of this site was far from exhaustive, but I gained the 
impression that the ancient occupation had extended over a very long 
period. This must be the case if the vast number of utensils found in 
the region have had their origin in these quarries. I observed that 
the phenomena are practically identical with those of soapstone quar- 
ries of the east. 

In a rock shelter some 200 yards southeast of the quarry examined, 
1 found evidence of ancient occupation. Deposits of kitchen-midden 
refuse cover the slope below, and in these were man}'- abalone shells 
and some rude stone utensils, the latter including a flattish spatulate 
stone, one end of which was covered with asphaltum, as if used for a 
trowel in appl3ang the liquid material. 

Santa Catalina Island is extremely rugged and picturesque, and thei 
coast is in large part inaccessible, but there are a number of small 
baj's and inlets about the inner margins of which there is land enough 
to accommodate small settlements. One of the most favorable locali- 
ties for a native village was at the point called the Isthmus, about 14 
miles north of Avalon, where the opposite shores approach within a 
few hundred yards, and there is a low pass, not 20 feet in elevation, 
between the opposing beaches. The upper view in Plate 49 looks 
from this pass outward toward the Pacific, and the lower picture shows 
the opposite side turning toward the north. The houses in the latter 
view were occupied at the time of my visit, but I have learned from 



I 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Holmes. 



Plate 46. 





Traces of Aboriginal Work in Soapstone Quarry, Santa Catalina Island. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.- Holmes. 



Plate 47. 




Objects of Soapstone from a Grave, Santa Catalina Island. 
Di.sh 1(1.; iiiclies in (liaiiK'UT. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Holmes. 



Plate 48. 





Examining a Grave at a Soapstone Quarry, Santa Catalina Island. 



Report of U, S National Museum, 1 900.— Holmes. 



Plate 49. 





Views at the Isthmus, Santa Catalina Island. Ancient Cemetery occupied by 

Group of Buildings. 

A. LiiiikiiiK !*"Utli: 11. lookiiiK north. 



Report of U. S, National Museum, 1900— Holmes. 



Plate 50. 





Small Mortars, unfinished and finished, and unfinished Pestle. 
Finished mortar 5^ inches in diameter: pestle KH inches in length. 



ANTHKOPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN CALIFORNIA. 185 

Mr. E. L. Doran, of Avalon. who kindly carried me in his o-a^oline launch 
to this spot, that Bannino- Brothers, who own most of the island, have 
begun extensive improvements, changing- the appearance of the place 
and obliterating the ancient cemetery. The houses in the view are 
situated on the village site examined so carefully by Dr. Paul Schu- 
macher and reported upon by him in a number of publications. The 
site was covered b}^ several feet of midden refuse composed of black 
earth and shells, and in which were many burials. It is clear that this 
site was extensively utilized ))y the natives, and that an important 
village stood here for a long period. It appears also that it was 
occupied ;it the time of the arrival of the whites and for a considerable 
period subsequently, as the graves contained many articles of iron and 
glass. 

Numerous interesting details regarding the ancient remains of the 
island are given in a charming little boo^ published by Mr. Charles F. 
Holder,^ who has adopted the island as a home, and a map is presented 
in his work locating many village sites, cemeteries, and shell heaps. 
The evidences of occupation are so numerous and extensive that, as 
with the other islands of the group, there must have been formerly a 
large ])opidation, not differing essentially, however, in blood or cul- 
ture from the people of the mainland. 

Although soapstone was used so extensively on the islands and car- 
ried in great quantities to the mainland, other stones were not neglected, 
and sandstone especially was emploj^ed. In some cases, no doubt, it 
was cut from the living rock, but more commonly waterworn masses, 
already approximately shaped, were used. In some sections also con- 
cretionary forms were utilized, many of which were already rounded 
and hollowed out on one side, making the work of shaping easy. The 
manipulation of sandstone in the making of mortars and pestles is 
illustrated in Plate 50. 

Mr. Horatio N. Rust, of South Pasadena, Avhose collections have 
already received attention, has had more or less intimate contact with 
a num])er of Mission tribes, and I prevailed upon him to visit the Coa- 
huilas and other convenient communities for the purpose of making 
collections for the Museum. At Coahuila Mr. Rust called upon Jose 
Costa, prominent among the Indians of southern California. The 
family was found in a new wooden house, the old adobe residence hav- 
ing recently been destroyed by an earthquake. He found the old 
mother sitting under the brush shelter where she lives, making a l)asket. 
This, when finished, was purchased, and along with an unfinished speci- 
men was forwarded to the Museum. In the collection also are speci- 
mens of the materials used. In making the better baskets she used a 
strong grass, which is scarce and much prized. It grows only high up 



^ Charles Frederick Holder, Santa Catalina, an Isle of Summer, San Francisco, 1895. 



186 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

ill the mountains. Mr. Kust found it on tlie baiikji of a small stream 
at Bergman post-office at an altitude of about 5,000 feet, growing- in 
bunches like pampas grass and resembling that variety very closely. 
These people also make baskets of bulrushes which are dyed black. 
The rich brown mottling seen in many of the baskets is due to the natu- 
ral color of the base of the bulrush, the upper stem ))eing lighter in 
hue. Splints of a hard wood are also emplo3"ed in basket making. A 
woman was seen reducing these to a uniform size by drawing them 
through a hole in a tin can cover, and often biting them into shape 
with her teeth. Children were learning to make baskets, and it appears 
that many more are manufactured than formerly, since ready sale is 
found for them. Southern California baskets are much coarser than 
those farther north in the State. They make rude baskets, from 
3 to 5 feet in diameter and 3 feet high, of willow splints, in which they 
store grain, acorns, and other food products. These are placed upon 
scaffolds about feet high, constructed by setting strong forked posts 
in the ground and laying poles across. 

At Agua Caliente women were seen making pottery, and specimens 
were secured at Coahuila, Santa Rosa, and San Felipe. After grind- 
ing the clay in a mortar and kneading it they form the base of the 
vessel by placing a small portion upon a flat stone and bringing it into 
the desired shape with the fingers. When the base has assumed the 
form of a saucer they hold a smooth waterworn stone on the inside to 
support it, while with a smaller stone kept wet they rub the outside, 
curving the walls graduall}^ upward; then drawing in the edge they 
form the neck by skiljfully manipulating the cla,y with the fingers. To 
harden and even up the walls of the vessel they hold a smooth stone 
inside and beat the outside with a rude paddle. Specimens of the 
modeling tools were secured for the Museum. At Agua Caliente pot- 
tery is baked in an oven, to form which they dig into the side of a bank 
and line the walls with cow dung. The vessel is then introduced and 
covered with the fuel. When the fire is well under way they close up 
the opening and permit the vessel to remain until properly baked. 

These people spin strong hempen and mescal cords by twisting the 
thread in the fingers. Next the}'^ hold the newly formed cord against 
the thigh and twist it under the palm of the hand. At Agua Caliente 
the}^ make valuable saddle blankets of mescal fiber. These are woven 
on four stakes driven in the ground, the weavers sitting on opposite 
sides on the ground. 

At Maliaj'hon Mr. Rust witnessed the spinning of hemp and the 
making of nets. The hemp is prepared bv beating the ripened stems 
until the wood is thoroughly broken, when the bark fiber is separated 
and ready for spinning. The meshes of the net are tied about a stick 
held between the knees. 



ANTHKOPOLOdlCAL STUDIES IN (lALlb'OKNlA. 187 

The dressing- of deci' .skins rcciuired very .simple devices. A .smoothly 
shaved, Utittish stick about 6 feet long was placed in a slantin<^ position 
against a convenient tree. The skin was hung- over the stick and held 
at the top by a peg, and the hair and flesh Avere removed by pressing 
the skin against the Hat stick and scraping with an old iron drawing 
knife. The skin wiis first soaked in water until the hair and flesh were 
easily scraped off. In earlier times stone implements were used, the 
skin being spread on the ground or over a smooth rock. In finishing 
the Indians apply grease or ])rains and scrape and rub until soft. 

The maguey or American aloe or mescal grows wild among th 
mountains of the California desert. To prepare it for food the Indians 
dig or cut out the ba.ses of the stalks which bear the leaf stems. 
These vary from 6 to 2i) inches in diameter. To cook them the}^ dig 
a saucer-shaped pit from 10 to 20 feet in diameter, then set a large 
stone up in the center and pave the entire surface with smaller stones. 
Upon this they build a fire, mixing the mescal stuun)s and wood 
together and thus l)urn the woody fiber from the mescal. The smaller 
stumps are kept near the outside, and as they become sufficiently 
burned are thrown out, then the larger ones in turn. When they 
are done the mescal is })iled about the central stone and covered with 
hot stones. Next they cover all with earth, allowing it to remain 
fort^'-eight hours. When the piU; cools down the mescal is ready for 
use. Cooked specimens often measure 6 inches in diameter. The 
taste resembles that of sirup baked out of sweet apples. It is very 
agreeable food and will keep perfectly good for months. 

Sometimes it is neces,sary to go a long way for wood to burn, and 
several families make their pits near together for the .sake of company. 
AVhen they have no metal they ])urn an iron wood of the desert and 
sharpen the end for a digging tool. The mescal is ready for cutting 
when it begins to send up its flower stalk. If the Indian can not cut 
and bake all he wants at the proper time he cuts out the growing 
flower stem, which checks the growth, and the plant keeps in this 
condition for months. 

Acorns form an important article of food. The Indians crack them 
with the teeth or a stone, partly dr}', then shell and dry again. When 
drv then' are groiuid in stone mortars, then the fine flour is soaked in 
olhis to remove the tannin, and the mixture is poured into basins 
formed in the .sand. For some days they pour water into the basins 
until the taimin is all filtered out; the flour settles in the sand basin as 
a thick paste. This is scooped up b3^ hand and placed in an olla. 
Having thus secured the most of it without sand, the}^ gather u}) the 
balance regardless of sand, put it in another olla, add water, .stir it 
well, and pour ofl' the paste, leaving the sand. Ir this way the 
''B3'ota'' or acorn meal is prepared, sweet and wholesome, anci nuich 
preferred by the Indian to our wheat flour. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Mason. 



Frontispiece. 




ABORIGINAL- AMERICAN HARPOONS: 
A STUDY IN ETHNIC DISTRIBUTION AND INVENTION. 



OTIS TUFTOi^ MASOIvT 

Curator, Divisiou of Ethnologij. 



NAT MUS 1900 13 189 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Page. 

I. List ( .f illustrations 193 

II. List of autlioritics 196 

III. Introduction 197 

lY. South American harpoons: Fuegian, Avest coast, Brazilian, and Carih 212 

V. North American harpoons: Mexican, Central American, Californian, 
Columbia Eiver, southeastern Alaskan, Muskhogean, ^Iis.sissippi Val- 
ley, Atlantic coast, Canadian, and Athapascan 219 

VI. -Vrctic harpoons: East Greenland, west Greenland, Labrador and Hud- 
son Bay, Baffin Land, ^Mackenzie River, Arctic Alaska, and Kadiak .. 236 
Vll. Conclusion 303 

191 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



PLATES. 

Facing page. 

Frontispiece. The master < >f the harpoon 189 

1. Accessories to the harpoon 208 

2. Fuegian harbed harpoon heads 212 

3. Harpoon arrow and slieath, Veneznehi 216 

4. Toggle harpoon, east (xreenland 238 

5. Seal harpoon from west Greenland 240 

6. Complete seal harpoon, Cumberland Sound 260 

7. Toggle harpoon heads, Amur River and Cumberland Sound 262 

8. Barbed harpoon, with hand rests, St. Michael Island, Alaska 282 

9. Barbed harpoon, with hand rest and bladder, Norton Sound 284 

10. Larger Bering Sea harpoon 290 

11. Barbed harpoon for throwing stick. Sledge Island 292 

12. Sea-otter harpoon, Bristol Bay, Alaska 294 

18. Long-handled bar])ed harpoon, Bristol Bay 296 

14 and 15. Toggle harpoon, line, and float, Kusilvak, Yukon Kivei- 298 

16 and 17. Barbed sea-otter harpoon arrows, Alaskan Peninsula 300 

18. Barbed harpoon dart for throwing stick 302 

19. Barbed harpoon with float, Kadiak, Alaska 304 



tf:xt figures. 

Page. 

1. Type form of toggle head, Hudson Bay 201 

2. Loose shafts of toggle harpoons, Cumberland Sound 204 

.3. Eyelet on harpoon line, Cumberland Sound 206 

4. Line swivel, Cumberland Sotmd 206 

5. Sealskin float, Cumberland Sound - 207 

6. Mouthpieces to floats, Cumberland Sound 207 

7. Seal indicators. Point Barrow, Alaska 209 

8. Sealing stool. Point Barrow, Alaska 210 

9. Line detacher, St. Michael, Alaska 210 

10. Decoy for seal. Sledge Island, Alaska 211 

11. Ice scoops, Amur River and Bristol Bay 212 

12. Fuegian barbed harpoon 213 

13. Barbed harpoon heads, Chile and Peru 215 

14. Harpoon arrow, Bororo Indians, Brazil 217 

15. Turtle harpoon, Seri Indians 222 

16. Barbed harpoon head, Seri Indians 223 

17. Toggle harpoon, Hupa Indians, California 223 

18. Barbed harpoon head, Naltunne Indians, Oregon 225 

19. Salmon spear, Quinaielt Indians, Washington 226 

20. Toggle head and line, .Makah Indian^, Washington 228 

193 



194 REPORT OK NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Page. 

21. Sealskin float, Makah Indians^, Washington 229 

22. Toggle harpoon, Thompson Indians, British Columbia 233 

23. Hinged toggle head, east Greenland 238 

24. Toggle head, west Greenland 240 

25. Toggle head, west Greenland 241 

26. Toggle antl barbed harpoon head, wt-st ( Ireciiland 244 

27. Toggle head, \ve.><t Greenland 245 

28. Old toggle head, north Greenland 246 

29. Old barbed and toggle head, west (ireenland 246 

30. Barbed harpoon head, northern Greenland 247 

31. Old harpoon head, north Greenland 247 

32. Toggle head, west Greenland 248 

33. Old barbed and toggle head, west Greenland 248 

34. Old toggle head, north Greenland 249 

35. Old barbed and toggle head, west Greenland 250 

36. Barbed and toggle head, west Greenland 251 

37. Barbed and toggle head, west Greenland 251 

38. Toggle head, west Greenland 252 

39. Old toggle head, west Greenland 252 

40. Old toggle head, west Greenland 252 

41. Toggle head, west Greenland - 253 

42. Small toggle head, west Greenland 253 

43. Old toggle head, west Greenland 253 

44. Old toggle head, west Greenland 254 

45. Small toggle head, west Greenland 254 

46. Old toggle head, west (Greenland 254 

47. Small toggle head, M'est Greenland 255 

48. Shaft of .smaller harpoon, south Greenland 255 

49. Foreshaf t and loose shaft of figure 48 256 

50. Old toggle head, Upei'navik, Greenland 256 

51. Model of harpoon, Whale River, Canada 257 

52. Old bar))ed and toggle head, Upernavik, Greenland 260 

53. Loose head of lance. Repulse Bay - 260 

54. Toggle head, Repulse Bay, northeast Canada 261 

55. Head of whale harpoon, Hudson Bay 262 

56. Head of whale lance, Cumberland Sound 263 

57. Toggle head, Cumberland Sound 264 

58. Loose head of lance, Cumberland Sound 264 

59. Loose head of lance, Cumberland Sound 265 

60. Loose head of lance, Cumberland Sound - 265 

61. Old toggle head with stone blade 266 

62. Barbed and toggle head, ^Mackenzie River 271 

63. Toggle head, Diomede Island, Bering Strait 272 

64. Model of toggle head, Kotzebue Sound 272 

65. Tfjggle head, Diomede Island, Bering Strait 273 

66. Toggle head of whale harpoon. Point Barrow, Alaska 273 

67. Toggle head. Point Barrow, Alaska - 273 

68. Toggle head, with leader, Point Barrow 274 

69. Walrus toggle head harpoons, Point Barrow. .Vlaska 275 

70. Sealing harpoon. Point Barrow, Alaska 275 

71. Old barbed and toggle heads. Point Barrow, Alaska - - 276 

72. Old Transition harpoon head, Point Barrow, Alaska 276 

73. Barbed and toggle head. Point Barrow, vVlaska 277 



AHOKKUNAL AMKKICAX HARPOONS. 195 

Pago. 

74. Combined liarbed and toggle head, Point Barrow, Alaska. . . 278 

75. Barbed and toggle head, Point Barrow, Alaska 278 

76. Conibine<i barbed and toggle head, Point Barrow, Alaska 279 

77. Old toggle head, Point Barrow, Alaska 279 

78. Old-style toggle head, Point Barrow, Alaska 280 

79. Retrieving harpoon, Point Barrow, Ala.«ika 281 

80. Detail of ligure 78 281 

81. Toggle head harpoon, Norton Sound, Alaska 285 

82. Barbed harpoon, St. ^liehael Island, Alaska 286 

83. Toggle head and aecessories, Kuskokwini River 288 

84. Toggle head and accessories, Kuskokwini River 289 

85. Toggle head. Cape Nome, Norton Sound, Alaska 290 

86. Iron toggle head. Sledge Island, Norton Sound, Alaska 291 

87. Toggle head, Port Clarence, Bering Sea, Alaska 291 

88. Toggle harpoon head, Bristol Bay, Alaska 297 

89. ^Modern harpoon head of iron, Cumberland Si mud :;01 

90. Iron toggle head, Amur River, Asia .SOI 

91 . Shaft of toggle harpoon, C-umberland Sound 802 

92. B( me foreshaft of harpoon, Bristol Bay, Alaska 302 



LIST OF AUTHORITIES. 



1874-1870. H. H. Bancroft. Native races of the Pacific States. New York, 1874- 
1S76, 5 vols. (The bibliography in the first volume contains the titles of all 
early explorers on the west coast of America down to the time of i)ul)lication. ) 

1888. Franz Boas. Tiie Central Eskimo. Sixth annual report of the Bureau of 
Ethnology, etc. Washington, 1888, pp. 399-669, pis. ii-x, figs. 890-."i46. 
(Excellent bibliography of older writers.) 

1890-1900. David Boyle. Eeports on the Archfeology of Canada. Toronto, Depart- 
ment of Education of the Province of Ontario, 1890-1900. 

1877. William H. Dall. Contributions to North American Ethnology, I. Wash- 
ington, 1877. 

1887. Gustav Holm. Ethnologisk Skizze af Angniagsalikerne. Copenhagen, 1887, 

1-164, 363-400 pp., 32 pis., map. 

1891. P. Hyades and J. Deniker. Mission Scientifique du Cap Horn, 1882-1883, 

YII, Anthropologie, Ethnologic. Paris, 1891, 422 pp., 34 pis., map. 
1894. A. G. MoRiCE. Notes arehfeologiques, industrielles et sociologiques sur les 
Denes occidentaux. Transactions of the Canadian Institute, 1894, 199 pp., 
figs. 

1892. John Murdoch. Ethnological Results of the Point Barrow Expedition, etc. 

Ninth annual report of the Bureau of Ethnology. Washington, 1892 (1893). 
pp. 3-44, pis. i-xi, figs. 1-428. (Good bibliograjjliy. ) 

1899. E. W. Nelson. The Eskimo about Bering Strait. Eighteenth annual report 

of the Bureau of American Ethnology, Part I. Washington, 1899, 518 pp., 
107 pis., 165 figs., map. 

1888. A. P. NiBL.iCK. The coast Indians of southern Alaska and northern British 

Columbia. Report U. S. National Museum, 1888, pp. 22;5-3S6, pis. 1-70, 
figs. 1-297, map. 

1891. J. W. Powell. Indian linguistic Families of North America. Seventh annual 
report of the Bureau of Ethnology. Washington, 1891, 1-142 pp. 

1877. Stephen Powers. Tribes of California. Contributions to North American 
Ethnology, III. Washington, 1877, 635 pp., figs., maps. 

1898. Frank Russell. Explorations in the far North, being a report of an expedi- 
tion under the auspices of the University of Iowa. 1898, 290 ]jp., pL, map. 

1894. Karl von den Steinen. Unter den Naturvolkern Zentral-Brasiliens. Ber- 
lin, 1894, 570 pp., 145 figs., map. 

1900. James Teit. The Thompson River Indians of Britisli Columl)ia. ]\Iemoirs, 

American Museum of Natural History, New York, II, Anthropology, I, 392 

pp., pis. xiv-xx. 
1883. Edward F. Lm Thurn. Among the Indians of < iulana: being sketches, chiefly 

antlu'opologic, from the interior of British (.iuiaiia. London, 1883, 445 

pp., 53 illustrations, and a map. 
1894. LuciEN Turner. The Hudson Bay Eskimo. Eleventh annual report of the 

Bureau of Ethnology, pp. 159-350, i)ls. 26-43, figs 121-155. Washington, 

1894. (Edited by John Murdoch.) 
196 



ARORKWXAL AMERICAN HARPOONS: 
A STUDY ON ETHNIC DISTRIBUTION AND INVENTION. 



By Otis Tuftox ^Iasox, 
Curator, Division of Ethnology. 



INTRODUCTION. 

The aborigines of the We>stern Hemisphei-e were intimate!}' asso- 
ciated with the animal world. Their methods of taking- animals for 
their activities were as follows: 

1. Gathering without devices. 

2. Gathering with devices. 

3. Striking, stunning, Ijruising. 
-i. Slashing with edged weapons. 

5. Piercing, by stabbing, b}' thrusting, by hurling, oi by shooting. 

6. Taking in traps or blinds. 

7. Hunting by means of other animals. 

8. Capturing with light, fire, and smoke. 

9. Overcoming by asphyxiation, poisons, and drugs. 

In piercing devices the ends proposed are two. nameh*. to reach 
some vital part, and hence to kill instantly, or to insert a barb or tog- 
gle under the skin and thereby retrieve the animal. These piercing 
devices may be divided into three subclasses, namely: Those with a 
smooth blade, called lances, for stabl)ing: those whose blades or work- 
ing part have barlis on the sides for retrieving as well as piercing, and 
the harpoon subclass with movable head. A harpoon is a piercing and 
retrieving device with a moval)le head. Few other inventions of sav- 
agery show better the progress of thought in devising means for over- 
coming difficulties than the harpoon. In order to difl'erentiate this 
implement from others of the piercing type, let it be understood that 
the head is alwa^^s set loosely on the end of a shaft, to which it is 
attached by means of a line. Even when shot from a bow, missiles 
having this structure are called harpoon arrows. Every part of the 
harpoon, by its dimensions and form, by its pi-esence or al)senc(', or 
by its material and attachment, lends itself to classification in the 
studies of progress concerning the apparatus itself and its g(^ogi-aphic 
distribution. 

197 



19?> REI'ORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 19110. 

BetwoiMi tho sh:irp(Mi('d stick or l)()iio. which wounds l)y pioi'cino- and 
whic'li is the fundanuMital device of iill liinceolate weapons, and the 
harpoon, thei-e are one or two intermediate forms among the Eskimo 
usually associated with the harpoon. They may be called the hinged 
lance head and the detachable lance head. In the first named the ivory 
or bone piece, into the front of which the leaf -shaped blade is set, is at 
its other extremity hinged to the foreshaft, like the loose shaft of a 
whale harpoon. 'Jlie detachable lance head has a handle or tang of 
wood about a foot in length and less than an inch in diametei". On 
the front is set a leaf-shaped or a triangular blade, and the conical base 
of the tang tits into a socket in the end of the heavy shaft. In some 
examples there is an ivory barl) projecting from the handle near the 
blade, which is a spear characteristic, but in this instance it was 
designed to retrieve the lance head and not the animal. E. W. Nelson 
figurjes and describes a great variety of these.' He says in relation to 
them that they are used when the seal or walrus has been disabled so 
that it can not keep out of reach of its pursuers, and the hunter pad- 
dles up close alongside and strikes the animal, driving the detachable 
head in its entire length. The head remains in the animal, and the 
huntei" immediately tits another point into the shaft and repeats the 
blow, thus inserting as many of the barbed heads as possible, until the 
animal is killed or the supply of points exhausted. Everj^ hunter has 
his" private mark cut on these points, so that, when the aniiual is 
secured, each is enabled to reclaim his own. These lances are compan- 
ions of harpoons, and examples will be shown in their proper 
connection. 

The manner of functioning with the harpoon will be considered only 
incidentally here, inasmuch as there is abundant literature on the su))- 
ject prepared bj' those who have been eyewitnesses of its action (see 
frontispiece). For the Eskimo the student may consult Dall (1877), 
Holm (1SS7). Boas (1888), Turner (1894), Murdoch (1892), and Nelson 
(1899). The older writings are abundantly quoted in these, and the 
titles of authorities for the western P^skimo will })e found in H. H. 
Bancroft (1874-187()). It is with pleasure here acknowledged that the 
careful observations of these explorers on the spot haN'e made possible 
tills comparative study. 

I'AHTS OF THE irARPOOX. 

The fundamental t)r ideal parts of the harpoon are head, loose shaft, 
foi-eshaft, shaft, ic(^ pick, line, andiloat. These parts rarely all coexist 
in a single specimen, but the Eskimo have them all on their ^•arious 
harpoons, while each part also takes on a nuiltitude of forms and itself 
is often quite complex. Besides thes(> fundamiMital parts, there are 
also a number of accessories, which will be considered in their places. 



'The Eskimo al)ont Bering Strait, 1S99, ]>]>. 145-148, pi. LVii. 



AHOKiGiNAL amp:kican hakpoons. 199 

There are two varieties ot" harpoons, based on the shape of the 
head — the barbed and the toggle; but the former or siniphn- passes 
insensibh' into the latter. Barbed harpoon heads are attached to the 
shaft by means of a connecting line tied to the butt or tang of the 
head, and may be used on animals with tough hides (see tig. 12). The 
toggle harpoon head is attached to its line or sling by its middle, the 
head is driven entirely into the animal, and toggling under the skin 
gives the firmest possible hold (see tig. 1). It will give the best idea 
of the apparatus to take up the parts of the harpoon in order, and after 
that to study the question of distribution. 

PARTS OF THK BARBED HARPOON. 

The parts of a complete barbed harpoon are barbed head, foreshaft, 
shaft, line, feather, and ])ladder (Plates 8, 0, 11, 16, 17, is, and 19). 

Biu'hed head. — The head of a barbed harpoon is a piece of wood, 
bone, antler, ivory, shell, or metal, with tooth-like projections from 
its margins pointing backward, so that it may pierce the hides of 
animals but can not be withdrawn. Its action is to ratchet and retrieve 
the game. The parts of a barbed head may be referred to as point, 
body, margins or edges, sides or faces, barbs, line hole or groove, and 
tang (see figs. 13, 18 and 81). As to position the barbs are unilateral or 
bilateral. The unilateral may be from one to many. Bilateral barbs 
are sagittate, alternate, or opposite. The tang is wedge-shaped, 
conical, or spindle-shaped, and in relation to the connecting line is 
roughened, notched, bulbous, or pierced. 

Foreshaft.— Th& foreshaft of a barbed harpoor. is a more or less 
cylindrical or pear-shaped piece of heavy material, bone or ivory, 
fitted on to the end of the shaft, and having a socket in front to receive 
the tang of the })arbed head. In the rudest harpoons, such as the 
Fuegian, nothing of the kind exists. In some examples the foreshaft 
is elaborately carved in imitation of the heads of aquatic animals. 
The attachment of the foreshaft to the shaft is by means of a splice, 
a wedge-shaped tang and kerf, a socket in the shaft fitting a projec- 
tion on the foreshaft, or a socket in the loose shaft fitting a projection 
on the shaft. ^ There is no other part of the mechanism which taxed 
a])original skill more than the joint between shaft and foreshaft. 
The socket in the front of the foreshaft for th<^ tang of the barbed 
head has inserted in it a plug of wood having a small cavity into which 
the tang of the head fits loosely. The loose shaft and the shaft are 
l)ound fast together with sinew twine or fine rawhide lin(\ the many 
ingenious knots appearing in the drawings (see fig. 88). 

/Shaft. — The shaft of a barbed harpoon is of wood, generally rigid, 
but of light weight. In length it varies from a few inches to many 

1 E. W. Nelson, The Eskimo about Bering Strait, 1899, pi. lvii h, figs. 33, 34. 



200 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 19(X». 

feet; in thickness, from one-fourtli of an inch to more than one inch. 
Its front end may he fitted to a foreshaft, ))ut in the most primitive 
exampU^s there is a rude split or a mere cavity duo- for the tang of the 
barl). The maiuial or inner end of the shaft varies in form, being 
either tapering and without function, or fitted to receive the hook of 
a throwing stick, or notched for a bowstring, or having an ice pick 
of hard material secureh' fastened to it.' When not projected from a 
throwing stick or shot from a bow the barbed harpoon is held in or 
hurled from the hand. In that event hand rests or offsets are lashed 
to the shaft near the center of gravity.^ 

Connecting line. — The connecting line of a barbed harpoon at tirst 
was only a ])it of string or thong uniting the head to the shaft. If 
there be no connecting line between head and shaft, the weapon is 
called a rankling arrow, because the head stays in the animal and 
causes death. However, the rude Fuegian inventors have gotten 
beyond that, for the thong is carried halfway down the shaft and 
made fast here and there with knots. The same happy thought is 
called by Murdoch an "assembling line," since it serves in case of a 
break in the shaft to save the pieces. In the larger harpoons and the 
more delicate ones the assembling line is a separate affair. The line 
of the more complicated barbed harpoons is fastened at one end through 
the line hole of the head. The other end is bifurcated, like the martin- 
gale of a bridle, or a kite string. One end of this martingale is tied to 
the shaft near the foreshaft, the other near the butt end of the shaft. 
When the harpoon is ready to be hurled the line is neatly rolled ou 
the shaft, the head is placed in its socket, and a slipknot around the 
shaft takes the slack in the line. When the game is struck the head is 
pulled from its socket, the slipknot is released, and the line unrolls. 
The foreshaft being of bone, drops lowest in the water, so that the 
shaft acts as a drag. It serves also as a Imoy, since the upper end, 
especialh" when feathered, bobs about over the water and shows the 
position of the game. 

The feathering of the barbed harpoon is that of the arrow. Look- 
ing at this characteristic from the southward, the occurrence of feath- 
ers on the shafts of harpoons in lower Bering Sea is not abnormal. 
The float of the barbed harpoon is a small inflated bladder, stomach, 
or intestine attached to the side of the shaft, helping to keep the latter 
erect in the water. These structural elements are nuich more highly 
developed in the toggle series now to be studied. The barbed harpoon 
is of especial interest to the archaeologist, who finds heads of bone or 
antler with holes and knobs or grooves for attaching the connecting line 
and every variety of barb, in both shell heaps and cemeteries through- 
out Canada and the United States. 



'The Eskimo about Bering Strait, 1899, pi. liv and i.v. 
^Idem., pi. XLVii h, fig.s. 31-32. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



201 



TAKTS OK TIIK TO(i(;i,K II A lU'i )()X. 



T(></(/l< he(u1. — In do.scTil)iiii>" :i togtifle har})oon head it is necessary to 
orient it, not that the Eskimo is known to have held any portion of 
the apparatus uppermost hal)itually, l)ut for the 
sak(> of convenience in comparing ditt'erent types 
and styk^s. However, Captain Ilerendeen in- 
forms the author that so far as his personal 
observation i>-oes the barb of a togo-le harpoon 
head, like the cock feather in an arrow, is held 
uppermost. (See tig, 1.) 

To orient a toggle it must })e placed with the 
barb or spur at the rear end uppermost, the 
point awa}^ from the observer. It will then be 
possible to speak of the top, ))ack, or upper side; 
of the ])ottom, bell}-, or under side; of the right 
margin and the left margin; of the front or 
point; and of the butt end or rear. In those 
large examples, wherein there are right and left 
barbs in the rear, with the blade in the plane 
of the widest diameter of the bod}' (Cat. Nos. 
4.5947, 63948, 539.50, figs. 34-50), the top may 
be distinguished from the bottom by means of 
the line hole, which runs in a bent course 
through the body. 

The parts of a toggle head have been discussed 
by Mr. John Murdoch.^ 

When the toggle head is oriented it will be 
seen that it is possible to speak of the following 
parts: Body, blade, blade slit or kerf, line hole, 
line grooves, barbs (side and rear), socket for 
loose shaft, butt or rear end of the body, loose 
shaft, blade line, loose-shaft loop or running- 
loop, head line or leader, ornamentations, and 
owner marks. Each one of these parts should be described and 
even its absence noted. The characteristics of these parts are as 
follows: 

Body. — Its material, shape in outline and section, and dimensions. 

Blade. — Its material, shape, relation to the body, whether a part of 
it oi'not; orientation, whether vertical or horizontal in the plane par- 
allel with the line hole or across it. 

Blade sJlf or I'erf. — Whether saw cut or coarse; its orientation. 
The blade cover is frequently a case or cover for the entire toggle 
head. 




Fig. 1. 

TYPE FORM OF TOGGLE HEAD. 

Hudson Bay. 

Collected by Liidwig Kumlieii. 

Cat. No. 2.')6.')4, U.S.N.M. 



Ninth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology. 



'Jn2 REroKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, liKKt. 

Lhu- Jiolc. — The opoiiinjLi" tlnouoh the body of the tog-gle head for 
the rawhide .sling or knider on which the tog'gle head hinges. In very 
modern exanipUvs and in the heads of small seal harpoons the hole is 
l)ored straight through, hut in old specimens two much coarser holes 
are bored, one from each side of the belly inward and upward, meet- 
ing midway. All sharp edges within and without are carefully 
smoothed and rounded to protect the line and to facilitate the toggling. 
The points to be considered concerning the line hole are the shape, 
size, and method of Ijoring, and its position with reference to the 
other parts of the toggle head. Line holes run directly through the 
narrow body tN'pe, but in a curved path through the bell}' of other 
types. In a few abnormal specimens it stands vertical, but in the 
great majority of examples it goes horizontally across the body. 
Holm tigures toggle heads from east Greenland, in which the head is 
hinged to the foreshaft by means of a rivet. 

Line grooveif. — Gutters or channels extending backward from the 
line hole in which the rawhide line lies out of the way. In fact the 
line grooves are backward extensions of the line hole. Their width 
and depth have relation to the width and thickness of the rawhide line 
used. In old specimens they are wider and clumsier. 

Barh or spar. — The projection backward in a toggle head at its butt 
end has for its function to catch into the flesh of the animal beneath 
the skin, so as to revolve the head ninet}' degrees, and thus to efl'ect 
the toggling of the head in the wound, as in the fastening of a trace 
chain. In its way it is as important as the blade, and it will be seen 
that quite as much ingenuit}" has been spent on this part as on any 
other. If, for example, when the animal is struck, the spurs of the 
rear bar!) were covered b}^ the rawhide line the head might not toggle; 
hence, in a toggle head of the old-fashioned t3'pe the line hole lies 
below the center of the mass. The entire projection of the toggle head 
back of the line hole ma}' be called the spur to distinguish it from 
marginal barbs also sometimes present. 

Shaft socket. — The socket is a conoidai excavation in the butt end of 
a toggle head, into which the forward end of the shaft or loose shaft 
tits loosely. It will be readily understood that the socket is centered 
as exactly as possible. There is little or no variation in this part 
except of size and neatness. When the toggle head has l)een thrust 
into a beast the foreshaft or the loose shaft must be withdrawn in 
order to allow the weapon to do its work. 

Butt. — The butt or rear end of a toggle head is shaped in relation 
to the barb especially and also to the socket. In fact, the upper por- 
tion of the butt end is a part of the barb or spur. The exact method 
of shaping and treating this part seems to depend largely on the mate- 
rial, whether ivory, antler, or bone. The first named is solid, and 
the butt is acute angled above and sawed oti' sc^uare below. The other 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARrOONS. 203 

materials have uu)ro or loss of spongy core or arc hollow. In such 
examples the butt is initered oft" with the acute angle at the l)arbs. and 
then scooped out and dished about the socket. 

Blade line. — This is wanting- in a great many exani])les. It is a 
little twine of sinew extending from the inner left-hand corner of the 
blade, where it is looped into a small perforation. ))ackwai-d to the 
tirst wrapping of the leather sling or leader. 

Leach r or xling. — The toggle sling is a loop of rawhide thong or 
sinew twine, a foot, more or less, in length, passing through the line 
hole of the toggle head at one end and at the other end attached to the 
main line In' means of a splice, toggle, or clasp, to be described later. 
The two ends of this sling are spliced or joined after the neatest and 
most elal)()rate Eskimo styles. At one or more points the two sides 
of the loop are carefully united by wrapping (tig. 83). In the collec- 
tions of the U. S. National Museum the smaller harpoon heads with 
leaders are accompanied with sticks of pine wood on w^hich the appa- 
ratus is kept stretched when not in action (tig. S-i). In the great har- 
poons, as will be learned in the description of the line, there is no 
leader or sling to the toggle head, w^hich is hinged at once onto a ))end 
in the end of the main line. Without the hinging line the movalde 
head is only a rankling device. For instance, the loose head of man}- 
South American arrows, formed of a socketed bone of a monke}', 
remains in the wound, but not being attached to a line for retrie\'ing 
it is not a harpoon head. The step between the two, how-ever, is but 
a short one. 

IjMjse xhaft. — The part of a toggle harpoon which, at its forward 
end, fits into the socket of the head and in some way is hinged or 
joined to the foreshaft at its hinder end, as seen in figs. 2, -iS, is called 
the loose shaft. The two Aarieties are the spindle-shaped and the 
conoidal. The former is joined on to the leader or sling of the toggle 
head by a running loop or grommet (fig. 83); the latter is strapped to 
the end of the shaft b}- a rawhide thong, and makes a ball-and-socket 
joint (fig. 49). In either case the body of the loose shaft is perforated 
with one or more holes. When the toggle head is in place on the 
loose shaft the line is drawn taut, so that the loop or bone eyelet on 
the line may be l)uttoned over its peg on the shaft (fig. 79). 

Writers on the Eskimo harpoon say that the kneejoint })ctween the 
loose shaft and the foreshaft is to prevent the accidental ])reaking of 
the shaft. Captain Spicer gives additional functions to this structure 
of the implement. He says that it aids in the shipping and unshipping 
of the toggle head with reference to the loose shaft after the eyelet on 
the line is over its peg on the shaft. When an Eskimo hunter would 
prepare his harpoon for striking, he puts the eyelet which is attached 
to the line over the peg on the shaft, sets the loose shaft at an angle 
in the socket of the shaft, puts the toggle head in position, and 



204 



KKPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



straightens up the loose shaft. This brings all taut for the stroke. 
As soon as the game is struck the shaft is pulled to one side b}' the 
movenuMits of the animal, the loose shaft comes out of its socket and 
detaches itself from the toggle head. This enables the hunter to pull 
awa}' his shaft easily and instantly. 

Foresiiaff. — The foreshaft of a harpoon is the working end of the 
shaft, and is usually ;i 1>lock of l)one or ivor}^ neatly fitted on. Fore- 
shafts var}^ in material, being of 
antler, bone, ivory, or metal; in size 
and shape, from the delicate front 
of the sea-otter harpoon to the 
chmisy variety on the Greenland 
whaling harpoon; in the mode of 
attachment to the shaft, in the 
socket, and lashing for the loose 
shaft (see Plates 6, 8, 9, 10, 12, 15, 
and 18). 

Shaft. — The shaft of the har- 
poon is of wood; in treeless areas, 
of driftwood, but in the north Pa- 
cific it is a long, slender pole of 
cedar. For the purpose of studj'^, 
shafts have to be considered in 
relation to materials, shapes, and 
sizes; to hand stops or rests for 
thrusting; to line pegs, throwing 
stick pegs, assembling line, etc. 
For catching sea-otter the dart 
shaft is half an inch in diameter 
and -1 feet long, while some of the 
clumsy Greenland examples are 2 
or 3 inches in diameter, and the 
east Greenland deep-water variety 
and sled variety for killing on the 
ice at a distance have shafts manj^ 
feet in length, requiring two men 
to work them. 

The shaft has the double function 
of stabbing and retrieving. For the former (1) it may be thrust at the 
victim, in which case, in order to give a firmer grasp, a projecting 
piece of wood or bone or ivory is fastened near the center of gravity 
to stop the hand. Near this is frequently found a peg, over which is 
hooked the line to hold the head firmly on to the loose shaft. (2) It 
may be thrown as a javelin from the hands. (3) It may be hurled 
from a throwing stick. This method will be more fully described in a 




LOOSE SHAFTS OF TOGGLE IIAHI'OONS. 

Cumberland Sound. 

Collected by Ludwig Kumllenand Lucieii TnriK 
Cat. Nos. 90165, 2991, 34098, 3406:i. 
After Franz Boas. 



ABOEIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 205 

spec'iiil paper. The .series l)egins with the plain .shaft, and inchides 
the haud-rest t\^pe, the throwing- .stick type, the Giliak long pole and 
floating-head type, the east Greenland .sled-point type, the east Green- 
land deep-sea shaft type, and the Amazon type, in which the throwing 
.stick is cast overl)oard. 

Hv the function of retrieving is meant recovering the game after it 
has been struck. For this purpose the shaft is in many cases thrown 
overboard, and, being attached by one end of the line, while the other 
is tied to the harpoon head in the animal, acts as a drag and a buoy to 
impede the progress of the animal and to show its position. 

Ice ^)lcl\. — On the butt end of the harpoon shaft may be found, in 
arctic examples, a long ivor^^ pick for enlarging a hole in the ice in 
order -to remove the game. This is replaced with a boat-hook arrange- 
ment in others. T3'pes of the butt end of the shaft exist in the forms 
following: 

1. The plain butt, without function. 

2. The feathered end, akin to the arrow. 

3. The socketed end, for throwing stick. 

4. The Greenland type, with ivor}" feathering. 

5. The pick. 

6. The carved pick, Nunivak type, on lances with loo.se heads. 
Nansen ^ traces the elaborate Greenland harpoon shaft, with its many 

accessories, thus: 

1. The Indian arrow, with its variety of feathering. 

2. The feathered harpoon darts in southeastern Alaska. 

3. Farther north the disappearance of the feather and the occurrence 
of the small bladder on the shaft. 

4. The harpoon, with line and skin float, the last named being de- 
tached from the shaft and attached to the head. 

Line. — The line of the harpoon also has had its peculiar elaboration, 
answering to external exigencies and opportunities on the one hand, 
and to the ingenuity of the savage on the other. The Fuegian sinew 
thread, a few inches long, is far away from the Greenland whale line, 
and a series would take some such order as the following: 

1. The Fuegian type, short sinew cord tied around both the head 
and the shaft. 

2. The western Eskimo type, line tied to head and middle of shaft. 

3. Martingale type, attached to shaft in two places. 

4. With skin float, head fastened to line. 

5. Entireh' separate, with ivory or bone toggles for fastening to the 
leader strap of the head and to the float. 

The harpoon line developed a deal of ingenuity in the textile art. 
Shredded sinew, thread, twine, and braid or sennit are in demand 
constantly. Rawhide line in great varietj^ is also a necessity. 

^Across Green Uun I, London, 1890, 11, p. 2(j0. 
NAT :Mrs I'.MH) 14 



206 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1!»00. 





Here also oi-iuitiated the whole scheme of knots and s])liees, as will 
})e al)undantly shown in the illustrations that follow. The Eskimo 
made a ])utton or frog" on the end of a rawhide line }>y cutting a slit 
near the end and doubling the end back through 
the slit. They were extremely neat and skillful 
in fa.stening ott' lashings. Boas and Murdoch 
I T.^/ R « have given special attention to the Eskimo knots. 

' \ / 1 With the lin(% in its highest estate, go certain 

SlL^ "^—^ /.f accessories, such as the eyelet, for making fast 
w f to a peg on the shaft (tig. H). the line rack on the 

kaiak, and a multitude of ingenious inventions 
which Nelson calls "detachers," since the}^ make 
it possible in the frozen Arctic for the hunter to 
take his apparatus apart under the most trying- 
circumstances. 

In order to prevent the line from getting out of 
order, a swivel is sometimes used. One broug'ht 
from Cumberland Sound by Kumlien and de- 
scribed by him is represented in lig. 4. There 
was a ball in the hollow body of this instrument, 
which could not be pulled through any of the 
openings. One line was fastened to this ball, 
passing through the central hole, and another 
one to the top of the swivel. A simpler pattern 
is represented by Boas,' in which the ball in the socket would ])e a 
spherical knot on the end of the line. 

FloaU. — The sealskin bag used as a Hoat on the end of the line of 
the harpoon for killing whale and beluga is in Una- 
leet rigaii uk, bag; in Malemut Aygt niik; the float, 
in both dialects, is Oa tuk. Nelson describes two 
sizes. The smaller one is fastened to the line after 
the beluga has become unable to struggle much. 
The large float which has tired the beluga is at the 
end of the line. This small one is gradually slipped 
nearer by the man in the kaiak until it is distant 
4 or 5 feet, when the conp is made and the prej'^ 
secured. Boas describes and figures examples from 
Cumberland Sound (figs. 5, 6). 

By far the largest floats in the U. S. National 
Museum collection are those of the Aht or Nutka 
whalers ofl' Vancouver Island. The skin of a seal 
is taken ofl' whole, making- a float 3 feet long and 2 feet wide. 

Line rack. — Of the rack on the kaiak in front of the hunter (Unaleet, 
Achal ook; Malemut, A shal odk) for holding the rawhide line, Nelson 



Fig. 3. 

KYEI.ET ON HARPOON LINE 

Cumberland Sound. 

Collected by Ludwig Kuinlien 

Cat. No. 34123, U.S.N.M. 

After Franz Boas. 




Fig. 4. 
LINE SWIVEI,. 

Cumberlanri Sound. 

Collected by Ludwij; Kum 

lien. 

Cat. No. 34121. U.S.N.M. 

Alter Franz Boas. 



^ Sixth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, p. 481. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



207 



savs that the line is coiled on it with harpoon attached to one end and 
the hiro'e float to the other end. and lio-htly fastened back of the hunter. 
When the line has nearly run out the float is thrown over])oard. The 
rack is fastened to the kaiak with grass strings, so that, should the line 




Fig. 6. 
SEALSKIN FLOAT. 

Cumberland Sound. 

folleoted liy W. A. Mintzer. Cat. No. .WOOg. U.S.N.M. 

After Franz Boas. 



become entangled, the rack would be easily torn away without upset- 
ting the craft. (Phite 14.) It would then act as an impediment to the 
\)rogress of the animal. 






Collected hy W. A. Miiitzer 



Fig. 6. 
MOITHPIECES TO FLOAT.S. 

Cumberland Sound. 

id I.udvvii; Kumlien. Cat. Nos. -''.mm. :i41I8,:i4U9. 3il20. U.S.N.M. 
After Franz Boas. 



In the accompanying plate (after Nelson) will ho seen a great number 
of harpoon parts just mentioned. (Plate 1.) 

16125. Small toggle harjioon head with wtone blade and leader of rawhide done up 
on a short pitu'e of wood. The eap belonging U) this head is shown above. 
Nunivak Island. William II. Dall. 



208 REPORT OK NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

3046."). Finger rest for harpoon, triangular in form and ornamented with a carving of 

a seal in low relief. Fastened on to a shaft by means of a lashing through 

thi-ee iierforations. St. Michael. E. W. Nelson. 
33(jl-{2. Toggle head of a walrus harpoon of late pattern, since the carving is mechan- 
ical in outline. Norton Sound. E. AV. Nelson. 
33(341. Finger rest for harpoon shaft in form of a l)ird's beak, fastened on to the shaft 

by a lashing through three perforations. Norton Sound. E. W. Nelson. 
36097. Foreshaft of seal harpoon, cylindrical in form, showing wedge-shaped notch 

and the method of attachment to the end of the wooden shaft. Big Lake. 

E. W. Nelson. 
37377. Toggle head of a walrus harpoon with stone blade, showing the method in 

which the leader of rawhide is attached to the loose shaft by means of sinew 

thread. Chalitmut. E. W. Nelson. 
3741 7. Foreshaft of bonecarved in shape of an animal's head and showing themethod 

of attaching the foreshaft to the wooden shaft. Anagogmut. E. W. Nelson. 
37671. Finger rest of bone, with triangular perforations for lashing to the wooden 

shaft. Kongigumogunuit. E. W. Nelson. 
38529. Slate blade of harpoon head. Lower Yu-Jon. E. AV. Nelson. 
43461. F>one head of barl)ed harpoon for seals. Tang, wedge shaped; line hole, 

ol)long; four ])arbs, all <n\ one side. St. Michael. E. "W. Nelson. 
43S().5. Finger rest for large seal spears. In form of a seal's head; hole for lashing, 

triangular. LTnalakleet. E. W. Nelson. 
44077. Barbed head of large seal harpoon. Tang, wedge shaped; hole, circular; 

l)arbs, three on one side and two on the other. Mouth of Koyuk River. 

E. W. Nelson. 
44405. Ice pick of ivory for end of large harpoon. Fastened by lashings through 

four perforations. Cape Nome. E. W. Nelson. 
44421. Barbed head for seal harpoon. Line hole, oblong; barbs, two on one side and 

one on the other. Cape Nome. E. W. Nelson. 
44699. Toggle head of seal or walrus harpoon, complete, with slate blade. Sledge 

Island. E. W. Nelson. 
44703. Loose shaft of seal and walrus harpoon. Butt squared off and having a small 

si^indle-shaped projection fitting in a socket on the top of the foreshaft. 

Sledge Island. E. W. Nelson. 
44746. Iron head of seal and walrus harpoon. Sledge Island. E. W. Nelson. 
44812. Finger rest for large harpoon. Sledge Island. E. W. Nelson. 

45170. Finger rest for large harpoon. Sledge Island. E. W. Nelson. 

45171. Finger rest for large harpoon. Sledge Island. E.W.Nelson. 
45173. Cord fastener for large harpoon. Sledge Island. E. W. Nelson. 
48276. Barbed head for harpoon. Niinivak Island. Fl W. Nelson. 

48293. Finger rest for large spear. In shape of a ])oat's rudder, set on by lashings 
around the shaft through tliree perforations in the rest. Nunivak Island. 
E. W. Nelson. 

48471. Toggle head for harpoon (toy). Kegiktowik. E. W. Nelson. 

48820. Slate blade of toggle harpoon head. Rasbonisky. F. W. Nelson. 

63.3.34. Old barbed and toggle head, for seal, combined, showing the method of pro- 
viding shaft socket by lashing. St. Lawrence. E. W. Nelson. 

63497. Foreshaft of l)arbed harpoon for seals. It fits into a wedge-shapjd notch in 
the end of the shaft. St. Lawrence. E. W. Nelson. 

63842. Finger rest. Head and neck of seal carved oui from the material, probably 

antler. Attached l)y lashing to the thin, graft-like portion to the shaft. 
Point Hope. K. W. Nelson. 

63843. Finger rest, Point ]lM))e. E. W. Nelson. 

63844. Finger rest, Point II(ii>c. K. W. Nelson. 

126812. Ice pick for harp<;oii. St. La .v-rence. E.W.Nelson. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Mason. 



Plate 1, 




ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 209 



ACCESSORIES TO THE nARPOOX. 



Besides the hundred and one parts of the harpoon immediately 
attai'hed to it there are unlimited accessories which have been called 
into existence at its demands. The hunter has a peculiar costume 
which he puts on when he goes harpooning-. Certain kinds of food 
are demanded; a nniltitude of charms and lore are insepara])le from 
the implement. In addition, the hunter takes along several devices 
to g;ain information, to decoy the game, and to add to his own com- 
fort. All about the American coast where great fish or mammals 
existed the water craft were improved immensely. The Nutka dug- 
out canoes and the Eskimo kaiak are unrivaled, and they are the 
ministers of the harpoon. In like manner the sled, the dog, the har- 
ness, the shifting tent owe their forms and usefulness to the ingenious 
mind which devised and perfected the harpoon, which is no doubt the 
most virile of all savage inventions. 

Sometimes a small implement is used in the hunt to indicate the 
approach of the seal. It is called qipekutang, and consists of a verv thin 




Fig. 7. 

SKAI. INDICATORS. 

Point Barrow, Alaska. 

Collected by P. H. Ray. Cat. No. 56507. IJ.S.N.M. 

After. lohn Murdoch. 



rod with a knob or a knot at one end.' It is stuck through the snow, 
the end pa.ssing into the water, the knob resting on the snow. As soon 
as the seal rises to l)low. it strikes the rod, which, by its movements, 
warns the hunter. (Tcneraily it is made of whale's bone. Sometimes 
a string is attsiched to the knob and fastened l)y a pin to the snow, as 
its movements are more easily detected than those of the knol). The 
natives are .somewhat averse to using this implement, as it frequently 
scares the .seals." 

WJKMi watching for a seal at his breathing hole, the Point Barrow 
native inserts into the hole a rod of ivory. When the seal rises, it 
pushes up this rod and thus warns the hunter when to shoot or to har- 
poon-^ (fig. 7). 

The sealing stool is a small ti-iangular plank with three short legs, 
on which a hunter squats when watching at a seal hole, where fre- 



^ Parry, Second Voyage, II, p. 550, fig. 20. 

^Sixth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, p. 478. 

■'Murdoch, Point P>arrow p^xpedition, ]>. 255, tig. 255. 



210 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 




Fig. s. 

SEAi-INU STOOI,. 

Point Barrow, Alaska. 

S'.)SS7. U.S.N.M. 



roMwtefl by 1>. H. Hu.y. Cat. N 
.Aftt'i-.Ioliii Murtlc 



quently he has to stand for hours motionless on the ice.^ Murdoch 

makes the important state- 
ment that this device is 
not found elsewhere save 
at the Mackenzie mouth 
and in arctic Alaska (Rob- 
ert MacFarlane's notes). 
E^ede describes and fig- 
ures a " sort of one-legged 
chair and a footstool." 
Also Cranz (fig. SI). 

Cat. No. 3875-1: (fig. 9) is 
an apparatus for joining 
the two parts of a har- 
poon line; it may be the 
leader attached to the line 
hole through the head or 
it may V)e on an extra line 
used to lengthen the dis- 
tance between the head 

and the float. A collection of these fi'om different areas would form 

an interesting study. The extreme 

cold of the region, stiffening the line 

and freezing the hands of the fisher- 
man, makes it necessary to have some 

device which renders the rapid ship- 
ping and unshipping of the line cer- 
tain and easy. In the example here 

shown the detacher is carved in the 

shape of a seal's head. The leader 

passes througli the hole drilled in the 

neck of the animal, while the line to be 

attached is looped and pushed through 

the mouth of the seal, around a stud 

on top of the head, and hooked. While 

this attachment is secure enough where 

there is a steady strain, the hunter has 

only to push the loop backward, when 

it relieves itself from the button oi' stud 

and can easily be withdrawn. Especial 

attention is called in this example to 

the neatness with which the frapping 

is done on the rawhide thongs, the 

whale carved on the under side of the 




Fig. 9. 

LINE DETACHER. 

St. Michael, Alaska. 
Collected by E. W. Nelson. Cat. No. 38754. 



U.S.N.M. 



Point Barrow Expedition, 1892, p. 255, fig. 256. 



AKOKIGINAL AMKUICAN HAUPOUNS. 



211 




object, the curved line or serrate ornament, the owner mark on the 
back of the head, and the existence of the dot and circle ornament for 
ej'e.s and on the l>utton or side. 

Figures 40 and 41. pagvs 144 and 145. in Nelson (1900), are good 
illustrations of this type. 

Cat. No. 45000 (tig. 10) in the U. S. National Museum is a seal 
decoy from Sledg-e Island, collected ])v E. W. Nelson. It consists of 
ahandl(> of pine wood rudely carved at the Imtt end to resemble the face 
of a seal, and at the other end into three prongs. Upon 
each one of these prongs is fitted a toe of a seal so that 
the three points will touch the same surface. Around 
each of these is wrapped, by half hitches, a continuous 
thread of sinew and loops passing around a jog or pro- 
jection on the end of a stud in the handle just where it 
is pronged. This stud, of walrus ivory, has carved at 
the other extremity the head 
of a seal, the ej-es, ears, and 
nostrils indicated by insertions 
of black substance like whale- 
bone. The use of this, it is 
said by those who have trav- 
eled in Alaska, is to scratch 
upon the ice in order to imi- 
tate the noise made by the male 
seal and thereby attract his 
mate. On hearing the noise 
above, the seal that is under 
the ice comes to the ])reathing 
hole and is soon dispatched by 
the hunter. 

The ice scoop, an accessory 
to the harpoon, found all over 
the arctic regions, is shown 
in fig. 11, (/ and h. The first 
example, fig. llrr, is from the 
Amur region; ll/> shows a 
similar device from Cape Nome, Alaska, south of Bering Strait. After 
the seal is struck with the harpoon down through the small ])reath- 
ing hole, it is necessary to enlarge the opening in order to withdraw 
the l)ody of the animal. This is done with the pick on the butt end of 
the harpoon. As soon as the opening is large enough the hunter pro- 
ceeds to remove the broken ice at once by means of a scoop, the essen- 
tial parts of which are the handle, the bow, and the webbing. In the 
example from Schrenk here figured the very primitive way of attach- 
ing the spoon to the handle is worthy of notice. The spoon is kite- 




Fig. 10. 

DECOY FOR SEAL. 

Sledge Island, Alaska. 

Collected by E. \V. Xelson. C"at. No. 450CO. U.S.N.II. 



212 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



shaped in form, the butt ends crossing- and hished to the handle a little 
al)Ove the lower ends, which rest underneath a short ])it of wood or 
across the spoon at either end by means of a rawhide thong-. The 
examples of this apparatus are iigured in Nelson, Murdoch, and Boas. 
Among the accessories to the harpoon, the throwing- stick or board, 
called atlatl b}'^ the Mexicans, must not be omitted. True, the cun- 
ning device was used all around the 
Pacilic Ocean and across the Arctic 
for projecting- spears as well as har- 
poons, and there are other methods 
of using- the harpoon effectively; 
but the elaboration of the atlatl 
throughout was greatly stimulated 
by association with the harpoon. 
The proper discussion and illustra- 
tion of this accessory, however, 
would far exceed the limitations of 
this article, and will therefore be 
reserved for a separate paper, A 
map showing- the distribution of the 
atlatl in the Western Hemisphere 
would 1)6 marked on Greenland, 
Lal)rador, Baffin Land, Mackenzie 
River, all al)out Alaska to British 
Columbia, Santa Barbara, cliff 
dwellings of the Colorado, through- 
out Mexico, Central America, Flor- 
ida, Coloml)ia, the Orinoco, and the 
Amazon on several of its great trib- 
utaries, especially in the Mato 
Grosso. 




Fig. 11. 

ICE SCOOPS. 

Amur River and Bristol Bay. 

Collected by E. W. Nelson; a, after Schrenk; (), Cat. 

No. IJVJO'J, U.S.N.M. 



SOUTH AMERICAN HARPOONS. 

The continent of South America 
was not favorable to the harpoon. 
Most of its shores descend at once 
into the inhospitable deep sea. Ex- 
cept at its narrow and bleak coast southward, animals best captured 
with the harpoon did not abound. Inland there were pampas and for- 
ests, better suited to bolas, spears, slings, ])low tubes, and the bow. 
It is in the Straits of Magellan, on the west coast, and in the open 
waters of the great rivers that a rude barbed harpoon and excellent 
harpoon arrows existed. Nor can the thought be slighted that outside 
of the favored Cordilleras, the luxuriance of nature overpowered the 
inventive faculty, which indeed is developed among difficulties so long 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Mason. 



Plate 2. 



I : 



P ii't^ 





FuEQiAN Barbed Harpoon Heads. 

Collected by I'liited State.s Fish Coniinissioii steamer Albatross. 
Cat. Nos. 127566, 131217, 131218. 17<s,S0.i, U.,S.N.M. 



AHORICilNAL AMERICAN HAKPODNS. 



218 




as there is hope, but j^ives way to despair when natui'o even by her 
riches shuts the door against invention. This part 
of the South American Indian s equipment was not 
of a high order, since his patetit which he received 
for his cunning was so meager. 

Fiirgian tyj^e. — About the Straits of MageHan are 
tliree linguistic families of Indians — the Onan, the 
Alikulufan. and the Yahgan. The first named are 
believed to be closely related to their neighbors, the 
Patagonians of the mainland. The other two fam- 
ilies make canoes of bark and live on sea products. 
Their inventions, aside from their ingenious canoes, 
are not of a high order. Since the days of Magellan. 
15:^0. until now. they have been spectators of Cau- 
casian activities, yet they adhere to their ancient 
forms and are among the lowliest of the tribes now 
on the earth. 

In the Fuegian barbed harpoons the transition 
from the spear is inuuediate, for it is only a matter 
of a short piece of sinew string or leathei- thong- 
uniting the head with the shaft. If the bar))ed head 
of bone be lirmly lixed in the split end of the shaft, 
the implement is a spear; if the barbed head fit 
loosel}" by its butt into a socket or, what is really 
the case, into the riven end of the shaft, and is 
joined to the shaft by a short cord or thong, as is 
shown in tig. VI (Cat. No. 79091, U.S.N.M.). the 
implement is the most primitive of harpoons. The 
transition is not onh' immediate but easy. \Yhen 
the end of the shaft is merely split to hold the tang 
of the long bone spearhead, it is impossible to make 
a rigid joint by any amount of wrapping. 

In the examples studied foi- this paragraph, col- 
lected ])}• the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Allxi- 
tf'oss^ the spearheads have man}^ serrate barbs on one 
edge of the blade, and the 'tangs, instead of being- 
smooth and tapering, are roughly notched to prevent 
the head from being drawn out of the end of the 
shaft (Plate '2). In like manner the harpoon heads of 
bone have tapering points of greater or less length, 
with two large barbs, one on each side, or one barb 
projecting near the base. In spears the tang is not 
fitted neatly into a socket at the end of the sliaft. 
but th(^ latter is merely split and bound with sinew 
or thong; but the open socket for the harpoon head is wrouglit with 



FiK. 1-'. 

Fl-E(;1AN BAi'.liKIl 

UAKPOdN. 

Collected by Thomas ami 

Leslie Lee. Cat. Xo. 

7M31. U.S.S.M. 



214 REPORT OF NATIONAL MLTSP:UM, 1900. 

more care. The Fuegiaii harpoon is thrust with both hands or thrown. 
It has no hand rest on the shaft to make the blow more effective, nor 
did these natives have knowledue of the harpoon arrow or the throwino; 
stick, a device prevalent in many other parts of America for propelling 
the harpoon. The shaft as now seen is a creditable part of the imple- 
ment, being" often 12 feet long- and cut out with eight sides rather than 
round. The thong also is carefully knotted to the shaft a few feet 
from the barbed head, its length nicely adjusted to the setting of the 
harpoon for action. 

Chilean type. — On the Atlantic slope from the Straits of Magellan 
to the mouth of the Rio Negro, the bow and arrow (formerly), the 
long-handled spear, but, more than all others, the different varieties 
of bolas, were the hunting implements. To find the harpoon it will 
be necessar}^ to cross the Cordilleras and visit the archipelagos of the 
Pacific coast. Here amidst the greatest al)undance, having little con- 
tact with Europeans, the tribes of Aucanian and those of unknown 
affinities plied a harpoon not much in advance of those of Fuegia (tig. 
\?)C). It is to all intents and purposes a good North American arrow, 
chipped head, foreshaft, lashing crossed over the barbs of the head, 
and conical base for making a joint with the shaft. 

Fig. 13, A and B represent barbed harpoon heads in the U. S. 
National Museum from Arica, Peru. The heads are of chipped stone 
set by a tang into a socket in the end of its foreshaft or tang and bound 
with fine string. The column of the foreshaft is cylindrical, terminating 
below in a bulb, which serves both to hold the connecting line and to 
make a loose joint with the shaft. 

In the Blake collections, Peabody Museum, is a similar barbea har- 
poon from Chacota, Peru, with point or blade of stone, tang of wood, 
and with conical butt end to fit in a socket.' Comparing these exam- 
ples with the Fuegian type, the great advantage which one people may 
have over another caused by differences of material is apparent. The 
Fuegian, in order to join the head with the shaft of the harpoon, 
knows nothing better than to split the front of the handle and make 
the joining as secure as possible b}^ lashing with rawhide, or sinew 
cord, which shrinks in drying. Soon, however, this becomes loose 
again, and makes it necessary to repeat the process of fastening. It 
is a poor joint at best. As soon as the fisherman, coming northward, 
discovers the tough and straight cane, a new device is possible, and a 
))etter joint. Indeed, nature bores the hole regular in form for the 
butt end of the harpoon head. By cutting the stem of the cane just 
above the joint an ideal socket is effected. When the harpoon head 
is set securely into this socket and the outside wrapped with stout 
thread, the best of joints is effected. The butt end of all South Ameri- 



' Eleventh Annual Report of the Peabody Museum, p. 290, fig. 15. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



215 



CUM luirpoons. within the area of the cane, ])elong- to the type liere 
shown reu-arcUess of tribe or location. 

lu Stiibel, Reiss, and Koppel Kultur and Industrie Sudanierikani- 




h 




A B C D t 

Fig. 13. 

BARBED HARPOON HEAI>S. 

Chile and Pern. 
A-C. Cat. Nos. 1368.W<r ami )-, U.S.N.M., U, I'eabody Museum; E. Charles Read. 

scher Volker, i.s fi.oured a harpoon from Arica, Peru. It consists of a 
head of syenite and a tan.ii- of wood. The stone head is barl)ed and 
the tano- of wood i.s fusteru'd with a si'i/.in.u- of woolen cord. At the 



216 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

lower end of the woodcji tano- there is a projection for a cord which 
fastened the head to the upper end of a .shaft or reed cane. The lower 
end of the tang is conical, to fit into the end of the cane. There is a 
rudeness about the Peruvian and Chilean harpoon heads worthy of 
attention. The better classes of this ancient people were skillful in 
many aits. There is in these appliances of capture, therefore, evidence 
of a humble lishing- caste, or of a tribe not identical with Aymaras 
and Kechuas. The spirit of invention was not entirel}" wanting" in 
this area, however, as D and E^ fig. 13, show. The last named is taken 
from Charles Read's paper in the Journal of the Anthropological 
Institute (volume xix, page Bo). Side barbs are set on the side of the 
wooden tang of the head, partly let in, partly' cemented, and in one 
example served. All the elements here rudely put together will again 
appear on this same Pacific coast at its northern extremity in their 
latest elaboration. 

In the Hassler collection of the Field Columbian Museum are barbed 
harpoons from southern Brazil. The bone of an animal forms the point 
and a ))arbed piece of hard wood the tang of the head, which is attached 
by a short piece of rope to the end of the long shaft. In some exam- 
ples the l)one is socketed and set on the end of the tang; in others a 
spindle-shaped bone is lashed diagonally to the beveled end of the tang. 
Attention is here specially invited to the bone which forms the body 
and blade of this head, l)ecause it is an ideal, if not the real, beginning 
of all toggle heads of harpoons. A short piece of bone, conical in 
form, is cut out so as to be sharp in front and cup-shaped in the rear. 
If this is set on the end of a hard wood foreshaft and driven into the 
body of a fish or other animal it remains there and rankles. The arrow 
shaft is withdrawn, but if the bone be tied to the shaft it becomes a 
retriever. It toggles in the bod^^ of the game. The attachment of 
spurs at the base of this head brings about the made-up toggle head of 
the north Pacific coast. 

The turtle harpoon arrow in the Solimoens, Brazil, has a lancet- 
shaped point of steel fitted into a peg, which enters the tip of the 
shaft. This head is secured to the shaft by a tw^ne of pineapple 
fiber, 30 to 40 yards long and neatly wound around the shaft. AVhen 
the blade enters the shell the head of the arrow pulls out and the ani- 
mal dives to the bottom, leaving the shaft floating. The Indian, on 
pe receiving a movement in the water, shoots his arrow into the air and 
it never fails to pierce the shell of the submerged animal.^ 

The Amazo'i Indians hunt the manatee for food in small canoes and 
kill it with harpoons, the ))lades of which are made of shells.^ 

The Upper Shingu tribes hunted and fished with bow and arrow, 
though fishing was sparingl}'^ done in this way. The harpoon arrows 

' Bates, On the Amazons, 1875, p. 29.3. 

■^Acuna, New Discovery, Hakluyt, No. 24, 1S5<), p. 69; Bates, loc. cit., 1875, p. 245. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Mason. 



Plate 3. 




Harpoon Arrow and Sheath, Venezuela. 
Mu.sc'um of tliu Univcrsitv of Pc>nn.s.vlvania. 



ABORIGINAL AMKKICAN HARPOONS. 



217 



of the Bororo liiditins of tlie hc:i(l\v:itcr.s of the I'tinii^Luiy River, in 
southwestern Brazil, are used for eapturing- allio-ators and larjve fish. 
Tlie sliaft is of the Uba reed, and at the ])utt end has two whole feath- 
ers laid on flat. The head eonsists of a shaft of hard wood about 2 feet 
long, to which are fastened the point and l)arl). made 
of a pieee of l)one or ver\' hard wood. shai'i)ened at 
both ends, and laid on the top of the foreshaft diao-- 
onally so as to form the piercing portion in front 
and the hook in the rear. The barl) is lashed on to 
tlie foreshaft by means of a twined string, the other 
end of which is attached to the shaft, so that when 
the iiead is drawn out the shaft itself serves as a buoy. 
For about '1 feet the outer end of the reed shaft is 
wrapped with the same cord that connects the reed 
with the shaft. The inner end of the foreshaft tits 
into the hole of the reed (tig. 14). Length of this 
sj)ear, <! feet. It is pictured in Von den Steinen, 181M. 
page 48-1. ' Among the Bororo (Tupian family) is to 
be found a moditication of this type of harpoon in 
which the shaft is not fastened to the line but held in 
the hand of the fisherman, who dives after his game. 
A harpoon arrow of the Venezuelan Indians is 
shown in Plate 3. The specimen is in the museum 
of the University of Pennsylvania. The shaft is of 
reed, without a joint. At the shaftment there are 
two half feathers set on radial!}' and held in place by 
wrappings of black and white thread in alternate 
))ands. In a few places the thread passes o^'er the 
shaft of the quill, and elsewhere the bands of thread 
do not touch the feather and have nothing to do 
with the lashing. At the nock, a ball-like projection 
is formed by the wrapping of thread. A piece of 
hard wood is inserted in the notch to lit through the 
bowstring. At the front end of the shaft a similar 
object is wrapped around the end to strengthen the 
socket of the foreshaft, which is a reed of black palm 
about 8 inches in length, sharpened at its lower end, 
and driven into the reed. It tapers gradually 
toward the fore end. where it Hts into the head. 
The head eoiisists of a barbed i)()int of iron and 
a socket piece or a siiank of wood, into which the iron is fitted. 
At the base of this shank is a short wrapping of twine, mixed 
with gum, resem])ling a turk's-head knot. This acts as a stop to the 
The sameAvrapping extends from the line outward nearly to the 



Fig. 14. 
HARPOON ARROW. 

Bororo Indians, Bnizil. 
.\fter Von den Steinen. 



li 



barb on the point. The harpoon line, which is 10 feet in length, is 
NAT MUS IIMXJ 1,5 



218 RETORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

tied around the head at one end and at the top of the shaft at the other 
end. When this weajion is s(^t ready for action, the barbed head is 
placed on the end of the foreshaft. The line having been wrapped 
neatly around the top of the shaft, almost to its end, a loop or slip-knot 
is formed at the hist turn, and drawn tight. When the game is struek, 
the head is withdrawn, the slip-knot untied, the line unwound, and the 
heavy portion of the shaft drops into the water, the feather projects 
into the air, and the apparatus acts both as a drag and as a signal. 
Excepting the iron point, which might easily be replaced b}^ one of 
bone, the whole apparatus is aboriginal, and the wide prevalence of 
this particular combination of parts leads to the belief that we have 
here an early and unchanged American harpoon arrow. It is interest- 
ing also from the point of view before mentioned, that it is a step in 
the progress of the toggle head. If a Columbia River Indian were to 
fasten a spur on the end of the cup-shaped socket-, the combined barbed 
and toggle heads, to be more fully illustrated and described, would 
be realized. This form of harpoon head, in which the socket is on the 
movable part instead of being in the end of the shaft, is quite well 
diffused in the Amazon drainage and on the Pacific coast. It is not 
found in the shell heaps or mounds of eastern United States, but is 
connnon in western Canada and universal among the Eskimo. 

The harpoon arrows of the tribes in British Guiana are used for 
shooting fish, pacu {Pacu myletes), which abound at all seasons of the 
year, according to Im Thurn, in most of the large rivers of Guiana. 
When the river is high and the water is turbid with rain the pacu 
are distributed equally in all parts of the stream and are almost invis- 
ible. When, however, in the dry season, the river is low and the 
water clear, when the rocks which form the rapids are partially 
uncovered, and the "pacu grass," a small water plant {Lacis)^ which 
clothes these rocks, comes into flower, then the pacu collect at the 
falls to feed on the leaves. Large numbers of Indians then camp at 
the sides of the falls to shoot these fish. Such a scene is highly pic- 
turesque. The place is generally a wide extent of river bed, apparently 
inclosed by the foi'ested banks, and entirely occupied by a curious 
confusion of rocks and white, rushing water. On a rock in the midst 
of, and almost covered by the tumbling water, stands an Indian, his 
feet crushing the delicate, star shaped, pink flowers of the lacis, and 
every muscle in his naked, cinnamon-colored body bearing witness to 
the intensitj^ of his watch. His bow is half drawn, the arrow is in 
position, but its point rests idly on the rocks. The water is rushing 
and tumbling so wildly that an unpracticed eye can see nothing below 
its surface. But the Indian sees. Quickly the bow is raised, the aim 
is taken, the arrow flies, and its shaft is there, dancing and tumbling 
in the water, carried here and there ))y the terrified rusnes of an 
unseen pacu. in the body of which the arrowhead is embedded. But 



1 



ABOKIGINAL AMEKTCAX HARPOONS. 2l9 

tho lino not only coniu'cts tirrowhoufl and iirn)w shaft, but its other 
(Mid is held Hrmly in the hands of the Indian, who now easily hauls 
the fish on to the rock. Sometimes, instead of waiting on a rock, in 
his eagerness he stands in the midst of the almost overwhelmino- rush 
of the water, stooping-, the better to resist its force. In either case, 
if he is skillful, he gets a large number of tish. Im Thurn saw 15 
pacu, averaging about 7 or S jiounds in weight, shot l)v one man in 
twenty minutes. When enough have been taken the Indian loads 
his canoe and returns to his temporary camp. The fish are then cut 
oj)en and cleaned, their sides are slit again and again, salt is rubbed 
in. and they are put on the rocks to dry in the sun. 

It is not, however, only in the falls that the Indian shoots fish, though 
he rarely gets pacu elsewhere. In the smooth reaches of tlie river he 
shoots others of various kinds. Indeed, he can almost always and Qvevy- 
where find tish to shoot, and he seldom fails to hit them when the}' are 
once seen. When the water is snu)oth two other fish arrows are used. 
Of these one^ difi'ers from the harpoon before mentioned in that a 
short line connects only the head — which in this case also is slipped 
on to the shaft — and the shaft, instead of l)eing carried on the arm of 
the shooter. The struggles of the fish when hit immediately cause 
the shaft to slip out of the head, and the former, which is very long 
and light, floats on the top of the water, but remains connected with 
the fish l)y the line, and so serves as a buoy and marks the position of 
the fish." 

NORTH AMERICAN HARPOONS. 

Between the northern and the southern continents of the Western 
Hemisphere the mode of communication was by land or by water. 
By land the dividing line between North and South America Mas very 
near the route of the projected Nicaraguan Canal. The gold-working 
Chibchas of British Columl)ia had as their northern t)Oundary the San 
Juan River. By water there was no partition between the continents. 
The Caribian and the Araw\akan tribes encountered by Spanish explor- 
ers all aV)out the Cari})bean Sea were also found away southward in the 
Orinoco drainage and farther. There will be no surprise, therefore, 
on finding the same devices of capture widely distributed. The same 
animal will be killed in many places with smiilar harpoons^ because 
in the struggle for survival among weapons this or that form proved 
the fittest; also ))ecause of that subtle, imaginary kinship ))etween men 
and animals of prey which encourages the man to follow animals of 
particular species. The barbed head, with tang fitting into a .socket at 
the end of the shaft, and the socketed head, whose cup-shaped base fits 
on to a pointed foreshaft, continue to exist with little change until 

' Iiii Thurn, Among the Indiana of British Guiana, 1883, p. 235, fig. 96. 
^Idem., pp. 235-237. 



220 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

California i.s reached. The ])arbod harpoon head with cup-shaped base 
there take.s on .si)ur.s and becomes a toggle head without barbs. 

Of harpoons on the Mosquito coast of Nicaragua and Honduras 
Squier ssljh: 

The women were left on tlie l)each and three men apportioned to each boat — a i>ad- 
dler, a torch bearer, and a striker. Torches made of pine splinters; spears of two 
kinds — one {sinnock) fixed l)y a shank at the end of along, light pole and kept in the 
hand; the other {ivaisko-dui<a) shortei-, staff hollow, iron-barbed head, fastened to 
a line passing through rings by the side of the shaft, wound to a light wood float. 
When thrown the head remains in the fish, the line unwinds, the float rises to the 
surface to ])v seized by the fisherman, who hauls in his fish at leisure.' 

The same author says that the Mosqiuto Indians capture thousands 
of turtles with harpoons. 

The Ulva Indians, of Bluefields Lagoon, pursue the manatee. One 
man sits in the stei'n of a fiat-ljottomed dugout (pitpan) to steer, one 
croucihes in the liow with a harpoon, the rest kneel on the bottom, 
lances in hand. The boat is covered with boughs to resemble floating 
trees. The man at the l)OW launches his harpoon, the animal makes 
a plunge, the boughs are thrown overboard, and the lance men make 
ready. The bowsman gradually hauls in his line and the animal, after 
some maneuvering, comes to the surface, where it is stabbed with a 
lance. After a series of struggles it is secured.^ These processes of 
paddling, harpooning, throwing the boughs overboard, hauling in the 
line, and stabbing with the lance may l)e carefully noted, in prospect 
of coming descriptions relating to harpoon work by the Eskimo. 

Clavigero describes the Mexican tlacochtli or dart, a small lance of 
otalli or some other strong wood, the point of which was hardened by 
lire or shod with copper, or itzli, or bone, and manv of them had three 
points. The Mexicans fixed a string to their darts in order to pull 
them back again. This weapon was especially dreaded Ijy the Span- 
iards.^ The line affixed to the darts is a harpoon characteristic. The 
three-pronged barbed harpoon head is also £o be seen on Lake Patz- 
cuaro at present. 

A turtle harpoon * of the Seri Indians of Tiburon Island, in the Gulf 
of California and the uiainland adjoining, is shown in fig. 15. It com- 
prises a point 8 or •! inches long, made from a nail or bit of stout wire, 
rudely sharpened by hammering the tip (cold) l)etween cobbles, and 
dislodging the loosened scales and splinters by thrusts and twirlings 
in the ground; this is set firmly and cemented with mesquite gum into 
a foreshaft of hard wood, usually 4 or 5 inches long, notched to receive 
a cord and rounded at the inner end. This rounded end fits into a 
socket of the main shaft, which may be either a cane stalk or a section 

X ' E. (i. Squier, Mos(iuit() Shore, Ixmdon, 1856, p. 74. 
Mdem., p. 104. 

■Mlistory of Mexico, II, rhiladeli>hia, 1817, p. 16(i. 
*W J McGee, Seventeenth Report of the Bureau of Ethnology (1898), p. 187. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 221 

of inos(|uite root, whilo :i stout cord is tirinl}' knottorl about the tiino- 
of the h(»:i(l and cither attached to the outiM' end of the main shaft or 
carried in the hand of the user. The shaft is usually lO or 12 feet 
loni!'. with the socket in the larg-er end. and is manipulated l)y a iisher- 
man sitting or standing on his balsa. On catching sight of a turtle 
lying in the water, he approaches stealthily, preferabh^ from the rear, 
yet in such wise as not to cast a frightening shadow, sets the foreshaft 
in place, guides the point close to the victiui, and then ])y a quick 
thrust drives the metal through the shell. The resistance between the 
turtle shell and the metal holds the point in place, and although the 
head is jerked out at the tirst movement of the animal, the cord pre- 
vents escape; and after partial tiring, the turtle is either drowned or 
driven ashore, or else lifted on the craft. Dr. McGee quotes the fol- 
lowing minute account of Seri turtle capture: ' 

All Indian paddles himself from the shore on one of these by means of a long 
elastic pole of about 12 or 14 feet in length, the wood of Avhich is tlie root of a thorn 
calletl mesquite, growing, near the coast; and although the branches of this tree are 
extremely brittle, the underground roots are as pliable as whalebone and nearly as 
dark in color. At one end of this pole there is a hole an inch deep, into which is 
inserted another bit of wood in shape like an acorn, having a square bit of iron 4 
inches long fastened to it, the other end of the tree being pointed. Both the ball 
and cup are first moistened and then tightly inserted one within the other. Fastened 
to the iron is a cord of very considerable length, which is brought up along the pole, 
and both are held in the left hand of the Indian. So securely is the nail thus fixed 
in the pole that although the latter is used as a paddle it does not fall out. 

A turtle is a very lethargic animal, and may frequently be surprised in its watery 
shunl)ers. The balsa is placed nearly perpendicularly over one of these unsuspect- 
ing sleepers, when the fisherman, softly sliding the pole through the water in the 
direction of the animal till within a foot or two of it, suddenly plunges the iron into 
its back. No sooner does the creature feel itself transfixed than it swims hastily 
forward and endeavors to liberate itself. The slightest motion of the turtle displaces 
the iron point from the long pole, which would otherwise be inevitably broken and 
the turtle would as certainly be lost; but in the manner here described it is held by 
the cord fastened on to the iron which has penetrated its back, till, after it has sutti- 
ciently exhausted its strength, it is hoisted on board the canoe by the fisherman, who 
proceeds to the shore in order to disi^ose of his prize. 

A barbed head, with wooden shaft, together forming a turtle spear- 
head, is shown in tig. IH, by McGee (1898, p. 1!>3). 

The only approach to the harpoon type in all the Pue})lo region is 
an insignificant apparatus for capturing vermin. But the cliti" dwell- 
ers had the throwing stick, and a spear with a head of stone set on a 
tang of wood conical at its inner end. like so many found in Peru 
and C'hile. The Yokut Indians (Mariposan family) on Tulare Lake, 
California, aie said by Powers to erect ])rushwood shelters over the 
water, in which the Indian lies flat or) his ))elly peering down through 
a hole." When a fish passes under, he strikes it with his two-pronged 

» Hardy's Travels, 1829, p. 296. 

'■' Stephen Powers, Tribe.s of ("alifornia, 1S77, p. 'M6. 



222 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MITSEUM, 1900. 




harpoon (1877. p. ',iH>). No otlun- rco-ion in America illu>;tratos more 
aptly svliat has ))0(mi pre\M()usly said about the doponcUMico of culture- 
projfress on tho bount}' of nature. The Tulare women are amono- 
the most skillful l)asket makers in the world, and their ware is sought 
far and wid(\ The material is at hand. But the Tulare men have 
reduced the harpoon to its lowest terms, for two reasons — the animals 

requiring a better perfected implement are 
not at hand, and the materials for con- 
structing the weapon are not forthcoming. 
The Indians of the Sacramento Valley, 
in California, not l)eing subjected to the 
prohibition of the game laws, are allowed 
to capture game at any season of the }■ ear, 
and when the salmon are in the river to 
spawn they take them by means of toggle 
harpoons, one of which is nearly 25 feet in 
length. 

The Sacramento near its head is very 
swift, and in its passage across different 
ledges of various degrees of softness exca- 
vates large pools or holes in its bed, each 
having a small fall, and there is a rapid 
beyond. The water in these holes, which 
are often very large, is comparatively still, 
and they make welcome resting places for 
the tired salmon before they attempt the 
passage of the rapid above. The water is 
))eautifully cold and clear, and the fish can 
be seen crowding together on the bottom. 
The Indians repair to one of these holes to 
the number of twenty or more. Some sta- 
tion themselves at the rapids above and 
below; others wade out to an isolated rock, 
or a log projecting into the stream. All 
hold their harpoons in readiness, and at a 
signal from the leader strike. At the first 
onslaught each manages to secure a fish, 
which is detached from the harpoon head 
The harpoons, having toggles of steel which 
become detached from the stock when they enter the fish, and being- 
attached to the shaft by cords, turn fiat against the fish's side and make 
escape impossible when the salmon is pierced through. Sometimes 
three or four hundred are thus harpooned from one pool. ^ The Wintun 



^i 



\m 




m 



Fig. 15. 

TURTLE HARPOON. 

Seri Indiaii.s. 

C«llections of the Bureau of Ethnology. 
.\fter W .) MoGee. 

and thrown on the bank. 



' Hallock, Forest and Stream, VI, June 1, 1876. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



223 



Indian tios two poles togothor near one end. sets them in deep water 
near the shore, the bottoms a few feet apart; on this he sets a lotr, one 
end resting on the shore. From this lishing station he harpoons the 
black-backed salmon. The shaft is often 15 feet long; the head, a 
joint of deer's bone, is 3 inches long, with socket to tit 
on the end of the foreshaft and line tied about its mid- 
dle. This head is driven (luite through the lish and 
toggles on the other side. The reader can not fail to 
recall the toggle heads of bone in the heart of Brazil. 
The Yurok also spear salmon from liooths with tog- 
gle harpoons.^ The Wintuns be- 
long to Powell's Copehan family. 
They are skillful arrow makers 
and their women dainty weavers 
of twined basketry. But the 
abundance of the game as well as 
its accessibility have acted here, 
as in all other places, to deter the 
inventive faculty. The thrusting 
of a toggle quite through a tish 
was indeed an eifective mode of 
capture, but it did little to elevate 
the mind of the captor. 

The head of the harpoon used 
by the Nacum Indians of Califor- 
nia was made cTt" deer's horn and 
was about 2 inches long, with a 
socket on one side that lifted into 
the pole. When a tish was struck 
the point left the pole, to which it 
was attached by a sinew a foot or 
more long. It has been observed 
that the toggle harpoon so well 
known on the Pacific coast of the United States 
north of San Francisco, as well as British Colum- 
bia and Alaska, made no advances as an inven- 
tion. The Nacum Indians are too far inland to 
have had the stimulus for improving an appara- 
tu which demands sea room for development. 
The Hupa and Humboldt Bay Indians con- 
struct the toggle heads of their salmon harpoons as follows: A ])oint 
of antler, bone, or metal from 2^ to 3^ inches in l(Migth, morc^ or less 
flattened and sharp at the tips, is armed at its lower extremit}' with 



v;.''.' 






Fig. 16. 

BARBED HARPOON 
HEAD. 

Seri Indian.s. 

Collections of the 
Bureuu of Ethnol- 
ogy- 
After W J McGee. 




Fig. 17. 

TOGGLE HARPOON. 

Hupa Indians, California. 

Collected by V. H. Kay. Cat. No. 

126525, U.S.N.M. 



'Stephen Powers, Tribes of California, 1877. See his index, under fishing. 



224 rp:p()KT ok national muskum, iduo. 

two barbs laid alotiosido. lashed down, and coverod with pitch. (Fio-. 
17.) In th(> same lashing is included one end of the leader, a short 
strap of deer rawhide. Into a slit at the other end is spliced the line, 
a piece of rope from 1 to 3 feet lonof, attached at its opposite end to 
the side of the shaft. Some spears have two or more prongs, each 
armed with one of these toggle heads. When the fish is struck its 
struggles detach the toggle head and it is retrieved })y means of tlic 
line and pole. Toggle heads of similar type are in use among all the 
salmon-eating Indians of porthwest California.^ 

In the figure shown will be seen the transition of the rankling arrow 
head of South America into a toggle head. There must be point, barbs, 
or spurs, line attached between ends, and socket in every harpoon. 
In this noteworthj' type the point and the flukes or barbs are separate, 
and the socket is ingeniousl}^ effected b}^ the combination of point, 
spurs, and rawhide leader. 

The spring salmon, says Gibbs. are taken on the rivers Sacramento, 
Klamath, Columbia, and Kwinaiutl with a harpoon, the points or 
barbs attached looselj^ by a thong, so as to give play to the fish. On 
some of the rivers, where the depth permits, weirs are built to stop 
their ascent." 

The relationship of weirs, dams, and slops of various kinds with the 
harpoon may be mentioned in this connection, since the California 
and Oregon tribes, barred out from ocean fishing by absence of archi- 
pelagoes, were compelled to invent equivalents. The old-time harpoon 
was even then ade(]uate. but engineering schemes were stimulated and 
so the intellect was quickened. The cooperative results in dam build- 
ing,, strengthening as they did the social tie, are not to he despised. 
Indeed, Powers, who knew those tribes half a century ago, has much 
to say about their manliness and resource, both in fishing and hunting. 
The same will l)e found true not only on the Atlantic side of the United 
States but on both sides of South America. 

It must not be overlooked that the Pacific Ocean all along the 
Mexican and Californian coast was no friend to the canoe. Fishing 
was done inland. The coastal plain, indeed, was the pasture land of 
vast nmrine herds that needed no shepherds, but at the proper season 
thej^ rounded themselves up and proceeded into the various open 
streams to their spawning grounds, where they were slaughtered with- 
out mercy and in such way as to awaken little thought in the minds of 
their captors. 

Cat. No. 131358 in the U. S. National Museum is a barbed head of 
a harpoon from the Nal-tunne-tunne Indians, Oregon, collected ])V liev. 
J. Owen Dorse}', consisting of an iron arrow head with long sharp barbs 
on each side and a wdoden shank barb piece having two unilateral 

1 Smithsonian Report, 1886, Pt. I, p. 224, pi. xix, fig. 80. 

^Guoige Ciihbs, Contributions to North American Etlinology, 1877, I, p. 195. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



225 



flukes (fiof. 18). On this wooden sluuik. the butt end of which fits loosely 
into the so( ket of tlic shaft, is a proiectioii to hold the striniiTonnootino- 
head and shaft. This tribe of Indians belonu'. as their name shows, to 
the Dene or Tinne Indians, whose home is in central Alaska and the 
western portion of the Dominion of Canada. This Athapascan famil}' 
is represented on the Pacific coast also by the Hupa. Wailaki, Saiaz, 
and many other tribes given by Powell (1891. p. 55). The time of 
their mio'ration is not known, but extensive movements have taken 
place since the coniino- of the w'hites. They have added nothing- to 
the inventions of the localit3^ The barbed harpoon 
blade, with barlis also on its shank, is widespread. 

Sixty years ago Wilkes described harpooning at Walla 
Walla, on the Columbia River, as very much like that 
at Willamette Falls, except there is no necessity for 
planks to stand on. The Indians use hooks and spears 
attached to long poles, both of which are made to 
unship readily and are attached to the pole by a line 
1 feet l)elow its upper end. If the hook were made 
permanently fast to the end of the pole, it would be 
liable to break and the large fish more difficult to take. 
The Indians are seen standing along the walls of the 
canals in great numbers fishing. It is not uncommon 
for them to take twenty or twenty-five salmon in an 
hour.' AVilkes brought home one of their harpoon 
heads, which is coml^ined barbed and toggle, made up 
as follows: The head is of iron, triangular in shape, 
with a large barb on one side. The shank is set in 
between two pieces of bone, which serve three pur- 
poses, namely, to hold the shank firmly, to become two 
spurs at their outer ends, and to form a socket for the 
end of the shaft b}'' the hollow between them. The 
line or leader is laid on the joint between them and the 
whole lashed secui-el}' together and dipped into hot pitch 
of many strand braid. 

One of the oldest pieces in the U. S. National Museum. Cat. No. 
1439. collected by Lieutenant Whipple, is of similar type, only there 
is not a bit ol iron about it. So far as its materials and form are con- 
cerned, it might have come down from aboriginal times. The blade is 
of bone, having two large flukes or barbs on one side cut out. In this 
example also the spurs at the butt end. which form the toggle, are of 
bone. The leader joining the head to the shaft is a strap of rawhide. 
The blade, spurs, and line or leader are neath' joined together with 
thread and pitch, so as to provide a socket for the end of the shaft. 



1 

Fig. 18. 
/ 

BARBED HARPOON 
HEAD. 

Xiiltnnne Indians, 
Oregon. 

Collected by ,1. Owen 
Dorsey. Cat. No- 
ISl.S.'iS. U.S.N.SI. 

The line is 



* Charles Wilken, P>xploring Expedition, IV, p. 384. 



226 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEITM, 1900. 



'riio.so who undorstaiul the difficult ios which beset the savage artisan 
ill niakino- a good joint will appreciate this efficient combination. 

The Twana Indians, of Washington State, make one kind of salmon 
hook of a straight piece of steel about inches long, and sharp. On 
each side of it pieces of bone are tied. A line is attached and also a 
pole 15 or 20 feet long, in such a way that by means of the pole it may 
be driven into the tish, the pole drawn out, and the hook remain, held 
by the string, when it is drawn in.' 

They (the Twana) sometimes use harpoons for seal fishing. The 
point is of iron, and the spear and line used as with the salmon hook 
just described.'- 

The shaft of the Quinaielt salmon harpoon is made of cedar, the fork 
of the wood of the salmon berry; the toggle heads of wood or metal. 




Fig. 19. 
SALMON SPEAK. 

Quinaielt Indians, Wasiiington. 

^ CoUeoted by C. Wllloughby. 

The loop of cord, which is 16 feet long, is for the left hand. The 
length of the spear is nearly 16 feet. This spear is used on the bar of 
the river at low water. ^ This most interesting specimen recalls the 
heart of Brazil. There a short piece of monkey's bone was pointed in 
front, while nature formed the socket at the base to fit over the fore- 
shaft. In the Quinaielt specimen the monkey bone is replaced by a 
combination of lione and metal, the cup-shaped cavity at the base fits 
also over the foreshaf t, but a short line or leader passes from the mid- 
dle of the head to the fore end of the shaft. This is a full -fledged 
toggle harpoon of a primitive type (fig. 19). 

The Indians of Neah Harl)or, says AVilkes, capture the whale with a 
buoy made of a seal's skin, which is blown up after the manner of blad- 
der, forming a large ol)long float. These Hoats are 4 feet long l)y 18 
inches or 2 feet in diameter, and are made fast by a rope to the harpoon 
or spear which is thrown at the whale, and becoming fastened to it pre- 

»M. Eells, Hayden's Bulletin, 1877, pp. 3, 68, 78, 79, 81. 

^Idein., p. 80. 

^Sniithsonian Rei)()rt, lSS(j, l*t. 1, p. 271, 1]^. 4. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 227 

\ out its (living down to uny great depth. After having a num))or of 
thes(> joined to it tlic animal is unable to (|uit the surface and is tinall\ 
captured. 

All those whose sealskin floats are attached to the animal now divide 
the booty. Those who are entitled to a shai-e are easily known, for 
each float has a different pattern printed upon it.' 

From Vancouver Island around the interminable coasts of North 
America to eastern Greenland the float is only in a few places absent 
from the harpoon in some form. It may be, as in this example, the 
hide of an immense seal, perhaps of a smaller seal, elsewhere a bladder 
or intestine inflaied. On the coast of British Columbia, in the absence 
of sealskins, the unconquerable genius of invention substitutes a large 
bag or wallet of cedar bark, and the Labrador Eskimo attaches a bit 
of plank to the butt end of his harpoon shaft. The motive is the same. 
A huge animal, to be captured, must not only be stabbed, but held 
back b}" an unwearying device which takes the place of the hunter's 
hand and arm. 

The Makah, living on the northwestern point of Washington State, 
pursue the whale in their dugout canoes. On one occasion, says 
George Giblrs, a canoe was gone five days. Their tackle consists of a 
harpoon, the point formerly edged with shell, now usually with cop- 
per, very firmly secured to a line and attached lightly to a shaft about 
15 feet long, to which, also the line is made fast; a sealskin float is 
attached to another line and serves to buoy the whale when struck. 
The scene of the capture is described by eyewitnesses as very excit- 
ing, ten canoes being sometimes engaged, the crews yelling and dash- 
ing their paddles with frantic eagerness. When taken, the whale, 
buoyed up with floats, is towed in triumph to the village and cut up.^ 

The Makahs belong to the Wakashan family, whose chief abode is 
on the outer side of Vancouver Island. They are the Nutkas of Cap- 
tain Cook and of the early explorers. But in this comiection they are 
at the gatewa}- of the North Pacific archipelago, where, after a lone- 
some search stretching from Magellan Sti'aits, the student encounters 
the Caribs of the west. One after another Wakashan. Salishan. Ilai- 
dah, or Skiddegatan and Tlinket, or Koloschan come out to meet him 
in their graceful dugouts of cedar. 

The ]Makah whaling harpoon consists of a barbed head, to which is 
attached a rope or lanyard, always of the same length, about 5 fathoms, 
or 80 feet. This lanyard is made of whale's sinews twisted into a rope 
about an inch and a half in circumference and covered with twine 
wound around it very tightlv, called by sailors "serving." 

The harpoon head is a flat piece of iron or copper, usually a saw 
blade or a piece of sheet copper, to which a couple of barbs made of 



"("liarles Wilkes, Exj)l()riiig Expedition, IV, p. 486. 

- Cieoiije ( Jiljl)s, Coiitrilmtiims to Nortli American Ethnoloiiy, 1 S77, I, }). 11 



228 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



elk's or deer's horn are secured, tind the whole covered with a coatinj^ 
of spruce gum. Formerly the blades were of mussel shell. The 
shaft is made of yew, in two pieces, which are joined in the middle 
by a \'ery neat scarf, firmly secured by a narrow strip of bark wound 
round it very tiohtly. The length is 18 feet; thickest in the center, 
where it is joined together, and tapering thence to l)oth ends. To be 
used, the stall' is inserted into the barbed head, and the end of the lan- 
yard made fast to a buoy, w^hich is simply a seal skin taken from the 
animal whole, the hair l)eing left inward. The apertures of the head, 
feet, and tail are tied up air-tight, and the skin is inflated like a blad- 
der. One example collected by Swan is 3 feet long (iig, 20). 




Fig. 20. 

TOGGLE HEAD AND LINE. 

Makah Iiirtians, Washington. 

Collected by James (J. Swan. 



When the harpoon is driven into a whale the barb and buoy remain 
fastened to it, but the staff comes out, and is taken into the canoe. 
The harpoon which is thrown into the head of the whale has but one 
buoy attached; but those thrown into the body have as many as can 
be conveniently tied on; and, when a number of canoes join in the 
attack, it is not unusual for from thirty to forty of these buoys to be 
made fast to the whale, wdiich, of course, can not sink and is easih' dis- 
patched by their spears and lances. The buoys are fastened together 
by means of a stout line made of spruce roots, first slightly roasted in 
hot ashes, then split with knives into fine fibers, and finalh^ twisted 
into ropes, which are verj^ strong and durable. These ropes are also 
used for towing the dead w^hale to the shore. ^ 

^ James G. Swan, Smithsonian Contnlnitions, XVI, pp. 19-21. 



ABORIGINAL AMKKICAN HARPOONS. li2U 

The Makahs. accordinu' to Swiui, aro not active in vocations or pur- 
suits other than tishini^- and wlialin^, and obtain some of their supplies 
by barter from neigh))orino- tribes and white men. Thev devote very 
little time to agricultui'al pursuits or to the capture of land animals. 
})ut excel in the management of canoes, makino- long voj^ages from 
land for fish, and fearlessly attacking the whale. They manufacture 
their own fishing apparatus, and take es})ecial pains with their har- 
poons and lances, for which instruments they have the greatest regard. 
The principal implements used by the Makah whalers are harpoons, 
lances, ropes, and ])uoys. The harpoon heads were formerly made of 
shell. V>ut at present are of sheet copper or steel, with ])arbs of 
elk or deer horn, tighth' seized to the blades by cords or strips of 
bark, the whole being covered with spruce gum. The lanyards attached 
to the harpoon are made of the sinew of the whale twisted into a rope 
and served with fibers of nettle. The lances are of metal, with sockets 
for the ends of the poles. The poles for the harpoons and lances are 




Fig. 21. 
SEALSKIN FLOAT. 

Makah Indians. Washington. 
Collected by James G. Swan. 

heavy and unwieldy, but durable and strong. The l)uoys are of 
sealskin with the hair inside, infiated when used, and attached to the 
harpoon lanyards. These buoy's are used for the double purpose of 
impeding the progress of the whale, so as to enal)le the Indians to kill 
it. and to prevent the animal from sinking when dead. 

All whaling implements which have been used in the capture are 
regarded with especial favor and handed down from generation to 
generation, and it is deemed unlucky to part with them. These Indians 
did not acquire the art of whaling from white men, and still employ 
the apparatus and processes which have come to them through count- 
less generations. One point deserves especial consideration. The 
process of wrapping their harpoon lanyards, conmionly known as 
"serving," has been in use by all seafaring men for a nimiber of 
years. The Makah Indian has his ser\Ting stick and mallet, manu- 
factures his twine from the fibers of the nettle, and '* serves" his lines 
as neatly as do the fishermen of the Eastern coast, and it is said they 
were familiar with the process before the advent of the whites.' 



James G. Swan, Indians of Cape Flattery. 



230 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, lillH). 

The implcinoiits used by the Makah Indians for (matching salmon were 
a hook and a spear. The former is in size as large as a shark hook, 
ha\ing a socket at one end formed of wood. These hooks are made 
by the Indians from files and rasps, which they purchase of the traders, 
and are forged into shape with ingenuity and skill. The socket is 
made from the wild raspberr\' bush [Ruhus spectahllx)^ which, having 
a pith in its center, is easily worked and is very strong. This socket 
is formed of two parts, firmly secured to the hook by means of twine, 
and the whole covered with a coat of pitch. Attached to this hook is 
a strong cord about 3 feet long. A staff or pole from 18 to 20 feet 
long, made from fir, is used, one end of which is fitted to the socket in 
the hook, into which it is thrust, and the cord firmly tied to the pole. 
When the hook is fastened into a salmon it slips off' the pole and the 
fish is held by the cord, which enables it to perform its antics without 
breaking the staff", which it would be sure to do if the hook were firmly 
fastened.^ 

Giglioli figures a barbed harpoon head (Kaheita), made of whale's 
bone, brought from Nutka by Captain Cook, and now in the Natural 
History Museum of Florence. It has two barbs on one side and is 
attached to a line 10 mm. thick, served with twine." This most inter- 
esting object, 10 inches long, reduces the harpoon head to its lowest 
terms. It reminds the student of the Fuegian type, or, better, of the 
universal American fundamental barbed type. At the base orjoint — 
and this is one of the crucial points for invention — there is merely 
the rudest kind of pivot to fit into the socket at the end of the 
shaft. There is no perforation, or even bulb, to hold the line. The 
shank is simply ha<^ked to make it rough. Some old pieces in the 
U. S. National Museum, of bone, antler, iron, and copper, collected by 
Gibbs, McLean, and Fisher, have from one to four barbs on one side, 
and have line holes or projections for the end of the connecting line. 

Ellis says that the Nutka (Wakashan) Indians had two kinds of 
harpoons — one of bone, the other of shell. The former — that is, the 
barbed head — is 6 inches long, pointed, having barbs on one side. Of 
the one with the shell blade, the butt end is "so contrived by means 
of a socket as to fix upon a pole 10 feet in length. The shaft is forked 
at the end, so that two pieces of the bone are to be fixed on at the 
same time." To the shank of the barb a strong line is attached, to the 
other end of which is fastened a seal skin, blown up. The float is said 
to prevent the animal from keeping under water. It was dispatched 
with the lance.'' This corresponds precisely with the specimens in 
the National Museum collected by Swan in recent times. In one of 
his examples the mussel shell, ground to a razor edge, forms the 

' James G. Swan, Northwest Coast, New York, 1857, pp. 40 and 41. 
'^ Appunti intorno ad una eollezione, etc., Florence, 1895, p. 131, pi. iii. 
•' Ellis, An Authentic Narrative, I, p. 221. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 231 

blado. and it is ,so noiitly titted hotwoon tho spurs f()iinin«>- tlio toj^gle 
iiiul covered with pitoli as to make a sure and efficient weapon. All 
that the iron did later on was to leplace the rather brittle edge of 
shell, without niodifvino- any other portions oi the inti-icate a])pa- 
ratus. 

Marchand's account of the harpoon in Barclay Sound, west side of 
Vancouver Island, is here g-iven. The strong- lance, which may be 
called their unerring lance, is intended for striking the whale when he 
presents himself on the surface of the water, and never does an Ameri- 
can fail to wound him at the lirst stroke. Instantly the slighter lances 
are employt'd for darting the harpoons, to each of which is fastened 
one of the long pieces of rope. The other end of the line is iixed to 
one of those large bladders tilled with air. This sort of balloons, float- 
ing on the water, cease not to indicate the place where to find the 
whale, dead or wounded, that has carried with him a harpoon, and 
the fishermen, directed ])v this signal, follow him up and celebrate by 
songs of joy their victory and conquest. But the most difficult is not, 
undoubtedly, to deprive the monster of life. It remains for them to 
get possession of him. and it would never be believed, if we were not 
assured of the fact, that with skills so slight and ticklish as canoes 
hollowed out of the trunk of a tree a few men should succeed in 
dragging the space of 4 oi' 5 leagues an enormous mass and contrive to 
run it on shore on a beach, where they can cut it up.' A glimpse at 
the ethnographic chart of North America shows that the Aht or Nutka 
division of the ^^'akashan familv occupies the western portion of Van- 
couver Island, while the coast of British Colum])ia belongs to the 
Ilaeltzukan branch, as shown by Boas. The same author fixes the 
limits of the Chimmesyan family on the coast between the Koloschan 
and the Haeltzukan tribes.' All about Puget Sound were Salishan 
tribes, and a small contingent of the same family approach the harpoon 
area at the mouth of the Bella Coola River. 

Harlan I. vSmith dug up at the junction of Thompson and Fraser 
rivers two barbed harpoon heads 9 inches long, made of antler. They 
have two barbs on one side and a hole for the connecting line.'' 

In a future paper the fishhooks of the same area will ])e discussed, 
flora which it can be more clearly shown how the idea of the bent 
finger and its imitators in bone and wood has also dominated the form 
of the fish spear and the harpoon. 

Niblack * figures both barbed and toggle harpoon heads among the 
Haida Indians of Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia, a little 



' Marchand's Voyage, London, 1801, I, pp. 492-493. 

'' Fifth Report of Committee on Northwest Tribes of Canada, Britisli Association for 
the Advancement of Science, 18S9. 

'Memoirs, American Museum Natural History, New York, II, i>. l.'iT, tijr. 20. 
^Report U. S. National Museum, ISSS, pi. xxix. 



282 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

farther nortli. The barbed heads are of yteel. The piercing end of 
each is lanccoUitc. The barbed portion is toothed or notched in its 
entire length, six barbs on the one side and five on the other, alter- 
nating. The tang is oval, perforated, and has a small loop or clevis 
riveted fast to it. Through this is secured a plaited lanyard or loop of 
seaweed, by means of which the head is attached to the foreshaf t or to 
the main line. F^ach one of these fits in a cedar case, made by splitting 
a piece of wood, hollowing it out, and then lashing the parts together, 
a method adopted by these Indians in their musical instruments and 
various receptacles. 

The toggle harpoon (Cat. No. 88^29, U.S.N.M.) of the Haida 
Indians, figured by Niblack, is still more interesting, being quite simi- 
lar to the harpoon arrowheads of the South American tribes. The 
head is of steel, the piercing ends in the form of a spike. At the other 
end the metal is split open and one portion extended backward for a 
barb or spur. »Tust where the spur unites with the body a rawhide 
line is wrapped to form a shallow socket. Into this the end of the 
loose shaft fits, being cut ofl: in the form of a wedge at the end. The 
other end of the loose shaft is widened out to fit into a socket in the 
end of the shaft. The thong which is wrapped around the head is also 
secure!}' fastened to the foreshaft at its middle and looped at the other 
end, to be spliced on to the long line for securing the game. (Cat. No. 
88803, U.S.N.M.) 

Captain Cook draws attention to the barbed harpoons on Cook 
Inlet, made of fir. about 4: feet in length. They are mentioned here 
to mark the northern terminus of the unilateral barb, but they will 
be described fully later on. One end is formed of bone, into which, 
b}^ means of a socket, another small piece of bone, which is barbed, is 
fixed, 1)ut contrived in such a manner us to be put in and taken out 
without trouble. This is secured to the middle of the stick by a strong, 
though thin piece of twine composed of sinews. These darts are 
thrown with the assistance of a thin piece of wood 12 or li inches long. 
The middle of this is slightly hollowed for the better reception of the 
weapon, and at the termination of the hollow, which does not extend 
to the end, is fixed a short, pointed piece of bone to prevent the dart 
from slipping. The other extremity is furnished with a hole for the 
forefinger, and the sides are made to c;oincide with the other fingers 
and thunil) in order to grasp with greater firmness.* 

The Chilkotin Indians in western Canada spear salmon with a double- 
headed toggle harpoon. .The shaft is a long pole, upon the inner end 
of which are spliced two short pieces of wood which nerve as foreshaf ts. 
The head of the harpoon is made of three separate pieces, the point or 
spike and two flukes or spurs, all securely lashed together in such a 
way that a cavity is left in the base for the end of the foreshaft. The 

^Second Voyage, 111, p. 14. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



233 



line is tied at its ends? around the heads, just above the flukes or barbs, 
and the middle of the line is .securely held 
in place near the end of the .shaft by a 
lashing of line. When the salmon is struck 
the toggle is fastened in the animars body 
and is withdrawn from the ends of tlie 
foreshaft. The short line between the 
head and the shaft enables the fisherman 
to l)lay with the victim and to land it more 
successfully.' Similar toggle heads on a 
bifurcated shaft are to be seen among the 
Thompson River Indians of British Co- 
lumbia. This weapon is used for harpoon- 
ing salmon from the shore while they are 
running. The handle is 15 feet or more 
in length and has two prongs securely 
spliced on to the end of the .shaft (tig. 22). 
The Thompson River specimen is similarly 
made up of three pieces, the point and the 
two spurs, but these last do not l)end out- 
ward, as in the Chilkotin example, but lie 
clo.se against the foreshaft. leaving a nar- 
row cavit}" to tit over the end of the latter, 
which is whittled in the form of a wedge. 
The line or leader which holds the.se two 
barbs to the front end of the shaft is 
braided, and the ends are caught under the 
lashing by means of which the toggle is 
built up. James Teit says that when the 
fish is struck the barb points are detached, 
and the fish, with the toggle in its body, is 
hauled ashore by means of the line. In 
some forms of the spear the whole fore- 
shaft is detachable. There are also exam- 
ples in which only one toggle head is used, 
and there are also .spears with fixed heads. 
In that case the weapon is thrust through 
the body of the fish." Batchelor figures a 
similar double-headed toggle harpoon 
among the Ainu.^ 

On the eastern side of North America it 
will be convenient to begin with Florida. 
Looking over Mr. Cushing's collections from San Marco, in the south- 

^A. G. Morice, Notes on the AVestern Denes*. Trans. Canadian Institute, 1894, p. 71. 
*James Teit, Thomp.«on River Indians, 1900, p. 251, fig. 231. 
•''The Ainu of Japan, Chicago, 1893, p. 154, 
NAT MUS 1900 16 




Fig. 22. 
TOGGLE HARPOON. 

Thomp.son Indians, British Columbia. 

Am. Mas. Nat. Histoi-j', N. Y 

After James Teit. 



234 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

western corner of the State, and Mr. Sawyer's drawings, made at the 
time they were excavated, does not reveal harpoons; but two varieties 
of throwing sticks were dug up. Gushing found no barbed heads. It 
was a great surprise to iind the atlatl or spear and harpoon thrower in 
Florida. In 1895, when Gushing first heard of the wonderful remains 
at San Marco, Von den Steinen had just revealed the finding of the 
same implement in the Mato Grosso, Lumholtz and Seler announced 
its existence in northern Mexico, and the author discovered it in the 
clifi' dwellings of the Verde. Giishing's are the central finger-hole 
t3'pe and the two-holed type for the fore and the middle finger. As 
the Gulf Stream sweeps past the Orinoco mouth, across the Garibbean 
sea to Yucatan, and thence in a narrower and swifter current past 
Florida Keys, one is not surprised to find a Mexican weapon there. 

Mr. H. A. Ernst says: ''The Seminole Indians of the Everglades 
now use white man's hooks, but adhere to the old-fashioned harpoon, 
which is used in catching fish and terrapin." The reader will find 
abundant evidence of the use of barbed harpoons in the Southern 
Straits in quotations from Adair, Barker, Bartram, de Bry, and Hen- 
nepin. Adair accompanied the Indians killing sturgeons in SaA^annah 
River with green swamp harpoons. These are long, sharp-pointed 
green canes, well bearded and hardened in the fire. When they dis- 
covered a fish they thrust into its body one of the harpoons. "As the 
fish would immediately strike deep, its strength was soon expended in 
violent struggles against the buoyant force of the green dart. As 
soon as the top end of the dart appeared again on the surface of the 
water, we made up to the fish, renewed the attack, and in like manner 
continued until we had secured our game."^ These southern harpoons 
were of the very lowest grade, if they were worthy of the name at all. 
The motives for devising a highly organized type did not exist. 

In Rau's Prehistoric Fishing, l)arbed harpoon heads are figured. 
These were taken from mounds, shell heaps, and other remains, from 
Maine to Michigan. They all belong to the barbed variety, and are of 
the simplest kind. Three types might be said to exist in Dr. Wilson's 
collection in the National Museum, the sagittate, in which the barbs 
are equal on the two sides of the point; the forms with multiple barbs 
of the same number on either side; those having an uneven number of 
))arbs on the two sides, usuallj^ two on one edge and three on the other, 
and those with any number of barbs on one side, as on the north Pacific 
coast. At the tang end ])arbed harpoons are divided into two classes 
by means of the connecting line which joins the head to the shaft, 
namely, the notched tang and the pierced tang. These again are fur- 
ther sul)divided, for the notch may l)e only a scratching or roughening 
of the surface or a bulb, and the piercing may ])e only a small hole or 

'C. C. Jones, Antiquities of the Southern Indians, New York, 1873, Chapter xiv. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 235 

large opening. About the Great Lukes biirbed harpoon heads are 
ph'ntiful, notched and pierced. 

C'hark^'oix describes the sturgeon spear of the Iroquois fishermen 
on the (Treat Lakes. Two men go out in a canoe, one to paddle, the 
other, in the bow, holding a barbed harpoon dart secured to the canoe 
by a long cord. IngersoU compares this to the Columbia River stur- 
geon chaser. The hook is like a gatf attached to a short wooden 
socket fast to a line, the other end of which 'm tied to the canoe. The 
operation of catching is described by Swan.' On the authority of 
Dr. W. M. Beauchamp the barbed harpoon had a wide variation 
among the Iroquois and the tribes on the Great Lakes. They are, as 
regards their barbs, unilateral and bilateral, and as to the tang, notched, 
bulbed, and pierced. The bilateral and sagittate forms are earlier and 
in larger numbers. Recent Mohawk, Cayuga, and Seneca sites j'ield 
large specimens. Both kinds are most plentiful at the inlet of Onon- 
daga Lake, the outlet of Oneida Lake, and near Chaumont Bay, in 
Jetferson County. At Brewerton more harpoon heads have been 
found than in all the rest of New York and, perhaps, than all the 
eastern United States. It is an excellent place for the work of the 
harpoon. The large Iroijuois harpoon had onl}^ a short point. The 
counties in New York yielding barbed harpoons are Jetferson, Mont- 
gomery, Madison, Onondaga, Cayuga, and Livingston. They are 
found in village sites and camps, rarety in graves, coming out of the 
ashes, says Beauchamp, in fine order. 

Dr. Beauchamp has made a thorough studv of the bone harpoon 
head in the Iroquois country in New York. The reader will have to con- 
sult his Bulletin of the New York State Museum to appreciate the end- 
less variety of forms carved out by this quick-minded race. There are 
pierced, bulbed, and notched bases, unilateral and bilateral l)ar])s, wide 
and narrow blades, single l)arbs and multiple barbs, long barbs and 
siiort barbs, alternate and opposite barbs. One would require the 
vocabulary of the botanist for leaves to define the shapes in Beau- 
champ's figures. 

Josselj^n tells us that among^ the New England Indians bass and blue- 
fish were taken in harbors and in the mouths of l)arred rivers, the fisher- 
men being in canoes and striking the fish wuth a "fizgig,"' a kind of 
dart or stafi', to the lower end of which was fastened a sharp, jagged 
bone with a string to it. As soon as the fish was struck the hunter 
pulled awa}- the stafl:', leaving the barbed head in the fish's body, and 
fastened the other end of the string to the c-anoe. Thus they hauled 
often as many as ten great fish to the shore. 

Sturgeon were taken in this way at night on the fishing banks, where 
they were feeding upon small fishes called lances, sucking them out of 
the sand. The Indian lighted a piece of dry birch bark and held it 

^Ernest Ingersoll, The Field, London, LXII, p. 413. 



236 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

over the side of the ounoe; the .sturgeon, seeing this light, mounted to 
the surface, where it was shiin and captured with a lizgig/ 

Dr. Fewkes calls attention to walrus-ivory spear points in Nova 
Scotia similar to those used by the Eskimo. The walrus frequented 
the coast of Prince Edward Island within historic times. The points 
are not definitely described.^ 

ARCTIC HARPOONS. 

The Eskimo harpoons are of every variety, barbed or toggle. 
The dependence of the ])eople largely on aquatic animals for food, 
dress, house, furniture, tools, and utensils of all sorts makes some 
kind of retrieving device absolutely necessary. They use the lance 
also most effectively, but the weak spear, with which the Indian tribes 
are wont to pick fish from the water, would be of little use among the 
Eskimo. The variety of animal life, both in size and habit, as well as 
differences of terrestrial conditions, have stimulated the Eskimo mind 
to the utmost in devising the most varied additions to what was in the 
beginning quite simple. Here, also, along the Arctic shore, more 
than in all other environments of the Western Hemisphere combined, 
suggestions of improvement have come from without. It is nature's 
pedagogic institute. More than that, harpoon heads, large and small, 
of most appropriate patterns, have been made by machinery and traded 
to the Eskimo by whalers and fur hunters. In this part of the paper 
the specimens will be described as they occur. The question of the 
derivation of each feature will then be more easily settled. 

A. B. Meyer calls attention to this and says that the little toggle 
heads of harpoons were not invented in their present form. Semper 
encountered them among the Negritos of the Palanan, north coast of 
Luzon, for pig shooting, in the form of harpoon arrows. Meyer 
describes an example from Bataan, after A. Schadenberg, and figures 
examples from Palanan and Bataan. All of these have 3-feathered 
shafts, spindle-shaped loose shafts, attached to both head and shaft by 
a short line, and iron heads, including both barb and toggle charac- 
teristics. The barbs are sometimes at right angles to the plane of the 
line hole, in other examples in the same plane. In some the toggle 
head has a conical projection for a socket, the latter being on the end 
of the loose shaft. Of the last-named pattern the Eskimo examples 
have no parallel forms.'' 

The Eskimo province may be divided into the following areas or 
subdivisions: 

Area 1. East Greenland, west Greenland, Labrador, and Hudson 
Bay. 

' John Josselyn, Two Voyages to New England, 1674, p. 140. 
^ American Antiquarian, XVIII, 1896, p. 6. 

'A. B. Meyer, Die Negritos, IX, folio series, publications of the Eoyal Dresden 
Museum, p. 14, figs. 1 and 2; pi. vi, figs. 2 and 3; pi. viii, figs. 1 and 2. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOON8. 287 

Area 2. The centrul Eskimo of Boas. 

Area 8. The arctic Eskimo, from the mouth of the Mackenzie River, 
including Point Barrow and Kotzebue Sound. 

Area 4. The Bering Sea Eskimo, inchuling Bering Strait southward 
to Norton Sound, the lower Yukon, Nunivak Island and the mainland, 
Bristol Bay, and Kadiak. 

BAST GREENLAND HARPOONS. 

In this seeming]}^ out-of-the-world location the harpoon is far from 
its original form. All specimens are toggled and iron enters surpris- 
inglv into their composition. Holm (1887) figures the ditferent varie- 
ties in his Plates 15, 16, 29, 80, 32, 33. 

The hinged lance is here also with shaft of wood, having hand rests 
on the sides, assem))ling lines of rawhide to hold the parts together. 
and foreshaf t with flat top, from the middle of which a short cone pro- 
jects. Some lances have, instead of hand rests for thrusting or hurl- 
ing from the hand, the throwing stick or ajagsick. The head of the 
hinged lance consists of three parts, the iron blade (1), set in a shank 
of ivory (2), and this is fastened into a block of the same material (3), 
with Hat base, in the center of which is a cavity just fitting over the 
cone on the top of the f oreshaf t. This block is hinged to the f oreshaf t 
by means of elastic rawhide thongs piercing it and the shaft ^ (fig. 23). 

The plainest variety of east Greenland has a wooden shaft, with 
chisel-shaped ice pick at the end. The toggle head is of bone or ivory, 
with iron blade, flat, cone-shaped body, two line holes quite through 
the body, united by a groove on the back, into which the line sinks. 
The shaft socket is in the center of the base, two wing-like bar])s flanking 
it. The complete sealing harpoon is modeled after that of west Green- 
land, having ej^elets instead of hooks for the throwing stick, and being 
covered all over with little figures of animals, reminding one slightly 
of the Aleutian hat and the bark onlaying of the Amur people. 

The barbed leisters or fish spears, with two or more barbs, are turned 
by these Eskimo into a toggle arrangement quite unique in America. 
The piercing ends are of iron or bone and hinged as in a pair of scis- 
sors, the cutting end piercing the animal, the other end lying against 
the shaii4c. When they have entered the flesh these points turn at right 
angles and toggle.^ A most curious device is the adaptation of this 
hinged head to a seal harpoon, provided with a little sled on the fore 
end of a very long shaft. It will be seen later on that the west Green- 
landers use for deep-sea fishing for seals a very long shaft worked by 
two men, and that the Giliaks make a harpoon shaft nearly a hundred 
feet long, with a float on the fore end.^ 

1 Holm, East Greenland, 1887, pi. xv. 

^Idpm., pi. XV, (( and }>. 

^Schrenk, Reisen und F<)rscliuii<rfn in Aniurliinde, 1881, p. 546. 



238 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MTTSEUM, 1900. 



A harpoon (Cat. No. 108960, U.S.N.M.) from east Greenland, pre- 
sented by the Copenhagen Museum, is shown in Plate 4. While 
in f^eneral appearance the weapon is similar to those of the same char- 
acter in southwest Greenland, the head is a type peculiar to the eastern 
part of the peninsula. The body is of narwhal ivory, conical in out- 
line, a long, lanceolate blade fastened in by means of a rivet. The 
point of the loose shaft enters directly into the base, which is 
flanked by two conspicuous barbs or spurs. A strip of iron is riveted 
across the lower portion on either side to strengthen it. An interest- 
ing feature in this specimen is the line hole, which consists of two sep- 
arate perforations, united on the back with a 
groove or countersunk cavit}^ to prevent the 
line from chaling. The loose shaft, which has 
been neatl}" spliced at the upper end, has a 
flat surface at the base, with a projection in 
the middle, fitting into a cavity on the front of 
the foreshaft, and the two are tightly hinged 
together by means of a lashing of elastic raw- 
hide. The use of this joint has been elsewhere 
explained. The foreshaft is in this specimen a 
cap of ivory, squared ofl' on top, and the middle 
left projecting for the socket on the base of 
the loose shaft. The shaft is of wood, and has 
on its surface the following attachments: A 
knob of ivory at the lower end, three hooks or 
pegs for the throwing stick, one to catch into 
its base or working end, and two near each 
other fitting into holes in the manual end of the 
throwing stick, as seen in the figure. Near 
these pegs is a hook of ivory, over which fits 
a catch of the same material on the line, serv- 
ing to hold the toggle head firmly upon the top 
of the loose shaft when the weapon is set ready 
to be plunged into the body of the animal. 
The throwing stick has a perforation at the 
working end instead of a peg. The line of rawhide is fastened imme- 
diately into the head of the harpoon and has a toggle at the other end 
to be attached to the line of the float. The other accessories to har- 
poons of this class are to be seen in Plates 14, 15, and 16 of Holm (1887). 

WEST GREENLAND. 

The oldest accounts of the Eskimo refer to those of Greenland and 
Lal)i'ador, but some of their apparatus remains quite primitive. Again, 
in a preliminary work like this the area can not be accurately sub- 
divided. The natives themselves are fond of wandering about, and 




Fig. 23. 

HINGED TOGGLE HEAD. 

East Greenland. 
After Gustav Holm. 



R.-p..it ..f U. S. National MM-jPur.i, 19C0, -Ma 



Plate 4. 



t-J 






m 



13 



Toggle Harpoon, East Greenland. 

Ciil't ul' CDpL'iihageii Museum. 

Cat. No. 1(«%0, II.S.N.M. 



ABORIGINAL AMEKK^AN HARPOONS. 239 

they leave their ideas as well as their accoiiterments. The task of dis- 
criinination is further embarrassed by the collectors unfortunate habit 
of lal)elinof a specimen with the name of the place where he procured 
it, himself frequently not knowing the place of its manufacture. The 
numbers on the specimcHs are arranged as thej^ occur in the catalogue 
of the U. S. National Museum. 

Hans Egede, the apostle to Greenland (1721-1736), gives the follow- 
ing description of the harpoon and its uses: 

When the Indians of Greenland go whale catching they put on their best apparel, 
fancying that if they did not come neatly dressed the whale, who can not bear 
slovenly hal)its, would shun them. About fifty men and women set out in one of 
the large boats called kone-boats. The women carry along with them their sewing 
tackle, consisting of needles and thread, to sew and mend their husbands' spring 
coats should they be torn, and also to mend the boat in case it should receive 
any damage. The men go in search of the whale, and when they have found it 
they strike it with their harpoons, to which are fastened lines or straps 2 or 3 
fathoms long, at the end of which they tie a bag of a whole seal skin filled with 
air; so that when a whale finds itself wounded and runs away with the harpoon it 
may the sooner become tired, the air bag hindering it from being long under water. 
When it thus loses strength they attack it again with their spears and lances until it 
is killed; then they put on their spring coats, made of dressed seal skin, all of one 
piece, with boots, gloves, and caps, sewed and laced so tight together that no water 
can penetrate them. In this garb they jump into the sea and begin to slice the fat off 
all around the body, evenundei the water; for in these coats they can not sink, since 
they are full of air, so that they can, like the seal, stand upright in the sea. They 
are sometimes so daring they will get upon the whale's back while there is yet life 
in him, to cut away the fat. 

They go much the same-way to work in killing seal except that the harpoon is 
lesser, and to it is fastened a line 6 or 7 fathoms long. At the end is a bladder or 
bag made of a small sealskin filled with air, to keep the seal, when he is wounded, 
from diving under water and being lost again. In the northern parts, where the 
sea is frozen over in the winter, the Eskimo use other means. They first look 
out for holes which the seals make with their claws, about the size of a half penny, 
that they may catt^h their breath. After they have found a hole they seat them- 
selves near it upon a chair made for the purpose, and as soon as they perceive the 
seal come up to the hole and put its snout into it for air, they immediately strike 
it with a sinall harpoon to which is fastened a strap a fathom long, which they hold 
in the other hand. After it is struck and can not escape, they cut the hole so 
large that they may get the animal up through it, and as soon as they have its head 
above the ice they can kill it with one blow of the fist. 

A third way of catching seals is to make a great hole in the ice, or in the spring 
they find holes made bj' the seals. Near to these holes they {)lace a low bench 
upon which they lie down upon their bellies, having first made a small hole near the 
larger one, thrf)Ugh whi("h they let softly down a perch Ifi or 20 yards long, headed 
with a har])()on, a strap being fastened to it which one holds in his hand, while 
another, who lies upon a bench with his face downward, watches the ("oming of the 
seal, when he cries "Kae," whereujion he who holds the pole pushes and strikes 
the seal. 

The fourth way is this: When the seals, in the spring, are lying upon the ice near 
holes which they themselves make to get up and down, the ftreenlanders, clothed 
in sealskin, holding harpoons in their hands, creej) along upon the ice, moving their 



240 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



lieads backwanl and forward and snoring like a seal till they come so near them that 
tlu'V ran reach the aniniul with their harpoons and strike them.' 

'Vho (ii-eeiilaiulors, siiys Nansen, iiso two foriiis of the gTeat harpoon ; 
(1) tlu' L^nak, with butt end finished in a l)one knob; it is longer and 
slightei- than (2) the Ernangnak, having- on its butt end two feathers 
of Iwne, connnonly whale rib, to increase the weight and guide the 
flight.' The line is made of young walrus {Odobmius rosraarus) or of 
l)earded seal hide {Phoca harbata), from 15 to 18 
yards long and one-fourth inch wide. The float is 
th(^ skin of a young ringed seal {Phoca fmtida) taken 
oft' whole, the hair removed, the apertures all tied 
up, and the whole dried. The line is coiled on the 
kaiak stand. ^ He calls the great Greenland and 
Hudson Ba}^ harpoon, thrown from the hand with- 
out the throwing stick, Sigagut. In the work above 
refin-red to a spirited description of the haipoon 
and its accessories will ])e found (pp. 62-64), with 
figures. 

Before giving in detail the structure of the west- 
ern Greenland harpoon, attention must again be 
called to the difficulty of making neat distinctions. 
Recent explorations by Peary especiall}^ assign 
Smith Sound material to the Central Eskimo; at 
least it is intermediate. The constancy of iron in 
the oldest specimens also demands that no hasty con- 
clusions ])e drawn concerning the original Eskimo 
harpoon, either as to its design or ornamentation. 

A toggle head from Greenland (Cat. No. 9836, 
U.S.N.M.), with a triangular blade of iron slightly 
barbed on one corner, fastened into the slit by a 
rivet of iron, is shown in fig. 24. The body is 
conical; the line hole is cut across the body and 
across the plane of the blade. It is an elliptical 
opening, and its diameter is not in a line with the 
It has one spur for a barb, and the socket for the 
foreshaft is wide and shallow. It is the gift of S. F. Baird. 

A modern toggle head of a whale harpoon (Cat. No. 19.510, U.S.N.M.), 
from Greenland, is seen in fig. 25. This unfinished specimen shows 
the last step in the development of the machine-made toggle head. 
P^vei'vthing about the specimen demonstrates this- — the mathematical 
form, the .saw cut for the blade, the socket for the foreshaft, the angu- 
lar ])arb, and especially the large line hole cut straight across the body 
head. In the primitive examples this last feature cost 




Fig. 2-1. 
TOGGLE HEAD. 

West Greenland. 

Collected by S. K. Buird. 

Cat. No. 9836. U.S.N.M. 

axis of the body. 



of the toggh 



' Egede's (Jreenland, pp. 102-106. 

^ Nansen, Across Greenland, 1898, p. 37, 

^Ideui., p. 33. 



Report o( U S. National Museum, 1 900.— Mason. 



Plate 5. 




Seal Harpoon from West Greenland. 

Collected by N. T. Scudder. 
Cat. No. SStnO, U.S.N.M. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



241 





the maker a great deal of trouble. He had to bore two holes slanting 
toward eaeh other and meeting inside, to unite these by removing the 
rough surface, and to separately prepare grooves to receive the line. 
This is the gift of J. H. Clark. " 

Plate 5 in the U. S. National Museum is a complete seal harpoon 
from west Greenland (Cat. No. 85670). The head is a combination 
of bar)) and toggle, sagittate in outline, with a slender waist and wide 
base; a very gracefully-made specimen. The blade is rhoml)oidal. but 
squared off in the saw cut and riveted with iron. The ol)longline hole 
passes straight through the waist and 
has slight line grooves. 

There are three barbs. Those on 
the side are angular, prominent, and 
sawed out, so as to present three 
flat surfaces inside; the terminal barb 
angular, formed by the two sloping 
faces of the back and the beveled sur- 
face of the butt; socket for the end 
of the foreshaft narrow and clean 
cut. The butt end has no bend or 
curve in it, but is formed by a single 
cut in the same plane. 

The line is drawn through the line 
hole, bent, and the end fastened down 
6 inches from the toggle head, and 
held fast b}^ a seizing of sinew three- 
ply braid, laid on for an inch in half 
hitches. 

At a distance of 50 inches from the 
toggle head is an eyelet of bone, li 
inches long and half an inch wide, hav- 
ing rectangular outline and pierced 
with three holes, through one of 
which the line runs. Just beyond 
this eyelet is a wrapping of sinew 
string acting as a stop. The whole line is over 30 feet long and termi- 
nates in a toggle of reindeer antler, with a knob at one end and a 
bifurcation at the other end. This is to hook into a loop in the line of 
the float, to be now described. 

The hide of a young seal was drawn off' over the neck, care being 
taken to keep the legs and other parts complete. After ))eing turned 
right side out, the hide was sweated, depilated, and again turned wrong 
side out and all openings carefully fastened up air-tight. But into the 
puckered oriflce of the neck a stout rawhide loop was inserted and made 
fast and into one forefoot a bone mouthpiece was tirmly lashed. About 




Jig. 25. 
TOGGLE HEAD. 

West Greenland. 

Collected by J. H. Clark. Cat. No. 19510, U.S.N.M. 



242 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

this specimen, as on many other floats, little holes were stopped by studs 
of wood or hard animal substance, set in when the hide was green, which, 
shrinking, rendei's the joint perfectly tight. As mentioned, into the 
puckered neck of the float was knotted a bend or loop 6 inches long. 
This would serve as a handle and be inseparable from the float. A 
stout piece of rawhide line, 3 or 4 feet long, was bent to form a loop 
at each end. Into one loop the float-loop was spliced, and into the one 
on the other end of the line the toggle of the harpoon line hooks. The 
bends in the ends of the short float line are seized down by means of 
sinew braid in half hitches. The float is always associated with the 
kaiak, and therefore it has attachments for it, as well as for the line. 
In the end of the float, where the float loop is fastened, and on either 
side of the latter, two short rawhide lines are inserted and made fast 
on the inside. These short pieces are run into the ends of a device,, 
made from two pieces of antler, for slipping under one of the cross 
lines on the deck of the kaiak. For this purpose a hole was bored up 
in the end of each one of these pieces 1 inch, met by a hole bored half 
way in at the side, and half an inch above another hole was bored quite 
through. The line from the float is drawn up the hole at the end, out 
at the meeting hole, and through the upper hole, where it is fastened 
with a peg, the two holes being united on the outside by a countersink 
to prevent abrasion by ice. A wooden peg wedges the line fast in the 
inner hole. The two front ends of the pieces of antler are united by 
an iron rivet. These details are mentioned to call attention to the 
cunning makeshifts of savages working with the poorest tools. The 
maxim, "Where there's a will there's a way," is quite true among the 
Eskimo. 

The shaft is a typical Greenland form and consists of loose shaft 
and rawhide hinge or connecting line, foreshaft, shaft, and "feathers." 

The loose shaft is an elongated cone of ivory 7i inches in length, 
having at a distance of 1 inch from the butt a raised ornament of 
rings and bands turned as in a lathe, the middle band with cross ridges. 
Two holes arc ])ored, one above the other, through this ornament, and 
three holes through the fore end of the wooden shaft for the rawhide 
thong that forms the elastic joint between loose shaft and foreshaft. 
This thong is doubled at its widest end and the wholeMrawn through 
one of the shaft holes, not tightly ; it passes (1) through the lower hole 
of the loose shaft, (2) back through a hole in the shaft, (3) up through 
the outer hole in the loose shaft, (4) back through the loop in the first 
end, then through the third hole of the shaft and once wrapped around, 
the end being tucked under as in making a single knot after the whole 
is drawn as tight as possible. 

The l)ase of the loose shaft is squared ofl' and socketed. The fore- 
shaft is only half an inch long, but forms an ellipse 1^ by li inches in 
diameter. It has a pivot or projection on top to fit into the socket of 



ABORIGINAL AMP:RICAN HARPOONS. 248 

the loose shaft and is excavated below to tit over a tenon in the end of 
the wooden shaft, which is kept from splitting by a wrapping of sinew 
twine. 

The shaft, of pine wood, 5 feet 2 inches long and li inches thick, 
tapers somewhat toward the butt end. Upon it arc the following 
additions: Buttons for holding the shaft on the kaiak. peg over which 
the eyelet on the line catches to hold the head on the loose shaft, two 
pegs for the throwing stick, and ])one feathers. 

The l)uttons for holding the apparatus on the kaiak are two little 
almond-shaped bits of ivory, attached to the shaft near either end bj^ 
means of a short rawhide thong. These buttons are tucked under the 
cross lines on the deck of the kaiak, but on occasion do not offer any 
ratchet to prevent withdrawal. The throwing stick pegs for the two 
holes in that apparatus are of bone and extend quite through the shaft 
near either end. The west Greenland shaft for the seal harpoon is 
unique in having the pegs on the shaft and not on the throwing stick. 

The butt end of the shaft is squared for the attachment of the two 
" feathers" carved from whale's bone. The end of the shaft is beveled 
ofl' and grooved. 

It must be borne in mind that as a rule the North American Indians 
have three feathers on their arrows, radiating outward; the Eskimo 
have two, laid flat on the flat shaftment. Now on the west Greenland 
smaller harpoon, at either side of the butt, is a strip of whale's bone 
16 inches ^ong, from li inches wide, and one-eighth inch thick, both 
exactl}^ alike, with long leaf-shaped outline terminating in a flsh-tfJl 
bifurcation. These two plates are pegged on for 5 to 6 inches, so that 
their outsides are flush with the shaft, and their butt ends are held 
apart in place by an ivory peg or cylinder. The area of this device or 
attachment is very circumscribed. It is not shown b}' Boas, Kumlicn, 
or Turner. The throwing stick is of light, conifcous wood, very 
broad in the manual part and ta})ering gracefully toward the working 
end. The top is slighth' rounded up, the bottom of two surfaces meet- 
ing in a ridge along the middle. The shaft groove is an inch wide and 
from one-fourth to one-eighth in-.-h deep, extending the entire length 
of the piece. It is right-handed, having a deep under-cut notch on the 
left margin for the thumb, just liack of which on the margin is a pretty 
bit of bone ])egged on. The hole in the manual part for the peg has 
in front of it a washer of l^one set in to prevent the peg from wearing 
the hole larger. Into the working end of the throwing stick is neatly 
set a T-shaped bit of whale's bone, held in place by pegs quite through 
both bone and wood. At the outer end of this bone is a large hole 
slanting forward and into it the rear peg on the shaft flts. When 
pulled straight ahead the hook holds tirmly, but when the throwing 
stick begins to turn away from the shaft the hole unhinges from the 
peg. All this action with least resistance is provided for iu the 
device. Collected by N. P. Scudder. 



244 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



A flat toggle head (No. 45855, U.S.N.M.) with a gibbous section has 
the back more compressed than the bell}'. The fr3nt end is rounded, 
the blade slit not deep, and rivet hole large. The line hole is curved 
upward and has deep line grooves. Barbs, two on the outer margins, 
formed by a sUghtly incurved cut into the butt end. The butt is 
whittled away so that the toggle head is just as long on the belly as on 
the ))ack. Length. 3 inches. Gift of the Copenhagen Museum. 
Example 63H51, gift of Governor Fenckner, is somewhat similar, but 

the back is longer and the 
notch between the tips of 
the barbs is not angular. 

Example No. 45670 in the 
U. S. National Museum is 
the point of a large har- 
poon from Greenland. The 
blade, of iron, was inserted 
in a saw cut in the end of 
the shank and riveted with 
iron, now decayed b}^ rust. 
The shank, of whale's rib, 
is rectangular in the section 
at the front and circular 
in other parts. Between 
the rectangular and circu- 
lar portions are four barbs. 
At the angles the butt end 
is conical to fit into a socket. 
In the end of the shaft, 3 
inches above, two holes are 
pierced for the insertion of 
a thong forming a hinge 
between the loose shaft and 
the shaft. Total length, 15f 
inches. Gift of the Copen- 
and untinished specimen of 





Fig. 26. 

TOGGLE AND BARBED HARPOON HEAD. 

West Greenland, 
of ( 'openhagen Museum. Cat. No. 45883. U.S.N.M. 



hagen Museum. No. 63939 is a broken 
the same type. 

Example No. 45872 jn the U. S. National Museum is the loose shaft 
and point of a ))arbed harpoon combined, from south Greenland. The 
front end is furnished with two barbs on one side and the top is 
pointed. The butt end is cylindrical to fit into the foreshaft, and 2 
inches above it are three holes bored for the rawhide thong which 
attaches this part to the shaft. The noticeable feature in this old 
piece is the presence of the barbs on the loose shaft and the entire 
absence of toggle attachments. Length, 14 inches. Gift of the 
Copenhagen Museum. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



245 



Fijf. 26 is a coml)ined toggle and barbed harpoon head from western 
Greenhmd (No. 45883, U.S.N. M.), all in one piece of antler. The 
body is narrow and flat, the spongy part of the material being the back 
of the implement, while the belly, which takes the strain of the line, 
is the outside hard ]^ortion of the antler. For a blade, the fore end 
vras sharpened to a point. There is no evidence of a metal blade hav- 
ing been used in this head. The line hole is formed by two slanting 
holes meeting on the back of the body, so as to leave a small opening 
on the back, a feature not common in Greenland specimens, but 
observed in many from the Anuir region (Plate 7). The line grooves 
extend onlv half an inch backward, and then suddenly terminate. 
Originallv there were doubtless three barbs; one, a strong hook on the 
left-hand margin between the point and the line 
hole, and two barbs at the butt, spread out like 
a fish tail, the tips being cut in an ornamental 
manner (see Plate 8. from Von Schrenk). The 
socket for the foreshaft is only three-fourths of 
an inch deep. The butt end is cut off with a 
long bevel, steep on its lower half and sloping- 
more and more outward. Length, -ij inches. 
Collected by Dr. Emil Bessels, but special local- 
ity not given. 

A toggle head of bone from western Green- 
land (No. 45884, U.S.N.M), conoid in form and 
double convex in section, is shown in fig. '21. 
The blade, which was of metal, is wanting, and 
the blade slit is wide for such a small specimen, 
the rivet hole neatly l)ored. Line hole, of two 
cone-shaped cavities, meeting in the })ody of the 
implement, and having slight line grooves. 
There is ))ut one barb, pointed on the back, a 
little to the right-hand side of the middle. The 
socket for the end of the foreshaft is cone-shaped. 
Length, -1\ inches. Gift of the Copenhagen Museum. This speci- 
men, though exceeding!}' plain in shape, does not mark an early form 
of toggle harpoon head, but a later period, when the}" were made in 
great numbers, sometimes l)y machinery, and sold to the Eskimo, who 
found it easier to provide themselves in this way than to make them 
by their rude tools. 

An old toggle head of a harpoon from north Greenland (No. 45885, 
U.S.N.M.), collected l)y Emil Bessels, is shown in fig. 28. 

The body is of l)one, the back nearly flat, being the soft part of the 
material, and the belly, which is more rounded, is of the outer, hard 
part of the bone, this being necessary in order to take the strain of 
the line. 

NAT MUS IttOO 17 




Fig. ■_>:. 

TOCGI.K HEAD. 

West Greenland. 

(iift of Copenhagen Museum. 
Cat. No. 45884, U.S.N.M. 



246 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 




The blade in this example i.s niissiiii^. and was inserted in a saw cut 

at the rounded end of the body and held in place by a rivet. 

The shaft socket is a conical hole centered between the back and the 

front surfaces and flanked b}^ barbs 
whose points are formed hy the meeting 
of the })ack, the belly, and the socket or 
excavation in the rear for the foreshaft. 
The line hole is formed hj the meet- 
ing of tAVo holes bored in from the under 
side and not quite through to the top. 
Line grooves project backward from 
the line hole so as to render all smooth 
to prevent the thong from chafing. 
Length, 21 inches. 

A combined barbed and toggle head 
(Cat. No. 45886, U.S.N.M.) f rom Avest 
Greenland is shown in fig. 29, and is a 
gift of the Copenhagen Museum. The 
l)ody is of bone, the back being formed 
of the hard or outside portion. The 
kerf for the blade 
is wide, and the 
latter, missing in 
this specimen, was 
fastened in with a 
rivet. On either 
side of the blade 

are two marginal barbs, cut out squarely as with 

a saw; from the tang of these barbs the bod}- 

widens out to the tip end of the spur or flukes. 

The line hole is formed by two distinct conical 

bores, which meet at their inner extremities, 

forming at the same time a continuous cavit}^ 

and line grooves. The butt is bifurcated, and 

the cavit}' for the end of the foreshaft seems to 

have been bored out after the barbs were formed. 

This fine old piece is worth}' of note in that both 

types of harpoon head, the barbed and the tog- 
gle, are pi-eserved. The specimen represents 

also what Murdoch considers to be the original 

form, since the barbs, the blade, and the line 

hole are in the same plane, while in the better and more improved 

varieties the blade is set in at right angles to the line hole. 

A barbed harpoon head of bone (Cat. No. 45887, U.S.N.M.), all in 

one piece, from northwestern Greenland, is shown in fig. 30. It is 



FiR. JS. 

Ol.n TOGGI-E HEAD. 

Nortli Greciilanfi. 

CollfctfU by Emil Bessels. Cat. No. ^.WS.S, 

U.S.N.M. 




Fig. 29. 

OI.I) K.\RBED .\.N1> TOGGLE 
HEAD. 

West Greenland. 

Gift of Copenhagen Museum. 

Cat. No. 45886, l .S.N.M. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



247 




BARBED HAKPOON HEAD. 

Northern Greenland. 

Collected by Emil Bessels. Cat. No. 45887. 
U.S.N.M. 



shaped like a barbed and tanged arrowhead, with a line hole through 

the tang in the plane of the blade. The tang abuts squareh' on the 

end of the shaft and the front of the 

blade is sharpened to an edge. The barbs 

are not of equal length. Length, If 

inches; width, 1^^^ inches. From Green- 
land. Collected b}- Dr. E. Bessels. 
Cat. No. 45888 (Fig. 31) is a barbed 

head of whale's rib. but there is not 

enough remaining to indicate whether it 

had toggle attachments. Length. 4i 

inches. Gift of Copenhagen Museum. 
These old pieces are most interesting 

connecting links between the simple barb 

and the toggle* head. They might be named 

conservative harpoon heads, which, while 

trying the new device, can not at once 

la}' the old 
barb aside. 

A toggle harpoon head (No. 45889, 
U.S.N.M.) from western Greenland, made 
ij l/i'll'i IIIIB <^^ bone all in one piece, is shown in fig. 

(V(! 1 1 LUMlllllill 32. It is double convex in section and 

the point is formed by shaving down the 
faces of the body. The line hole passes 
through the bone in a direction perpen- 
dicular to the plane of the blade, and the 
single barb is formed by beveling the 
end. The line grooves are slight, and the 
cavity for the shaft large, its margin con- 
tinuous. Length, 5i inches; width, one- 
half inch; depth, fifteen-sixteenths inch. 
Gift of the Museum of Ethnology, Copen- 
hagen. An entirelv aboriginal form, with 
no metal about it. From this it is not to 
be inferred that the piece antedates the 
coming of the whites. 

The loose shaft of a toggle harpoon 
(Cat. No. 45893, U.S.N.M.), made of wood, 
from south Greenland, deserves consider- 
ation. It is spindle-shaped, elongated on 
one end, and short at the other, elliptical 
in cross section. Through the thickest 

portion two holes are bored for the rawhide thong which unites it to 

the shaft. F^xamples of this part of the harpoon m wood are very 

rare. Length, 9^ inches. Gift of the Copenhagen Museum. 



ilii 



Fig. 31. 

OLD HAKPOON HEAD. 

North Greenland. 

Copenhagen Museum. 

45888, r.S.X.M. 



248 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



An aru'ient Inirlxnl luul tog-gle harpoon head (Cat. No. 45910, U.S. 
N.M.), made from a bit of hollow bone, from northern Greenland, col- 
lected by E. Bessels, is shown in fig. 33. The point has been cut off 
so that it is impossible to say how the })lade was set on. The barbs on 
the margin in front of the line hole have been 
cut out squareh^ but their points have evidently 
been reduced. It is possible, however, that their 
present form represents nearly the shape of the 
original material. At.this point it is proper to 
make an observation which applies very largel}'^ 
to the forms of aboriginal implements. The 
savages understood how, in an emergency, to 
secure the largest amount of result with the least 
amount of effort. It is with inventions as with 
language. A long word is not employed when 
a shorter one will suffice, and a servile imita- 
tion of any type specimen 
is not attempted when the 
result can be reached more 
directh". Hence, while ob- 
jects of a certain class re- 
semble one another in gen- 
eral, no two are alike in 
detail. The line hole is cut 
through the soft part of the 
bone by two conical per- 
forations meeting in the 
middle, and the line grooves 
appear to have been made 
by the same instrument. 
The back of the body of 
this toggle head is very hard bonc\ and the spur 
bends upward and outward, following the natural 
curve of the material. The base is cut off by a 
nearl}^ plane surface. The socket for the fore- 
shaft is a cylinddcal hole bored straight into 
the bone from the rear, apparenth' with an 
instrument of iron. It is not conical as in the 
great majority of Eskimo harpoon heads. 

A toggle harpoon head, made of antler (Cat. 
No. 45947, U.S.N.M.), from north Greenland, 
the gift of the Copenhagen Museum, is shown in fig. 34. It is in the 
form of a flat cone with convex sides. The kerf or saw cut is wider 
than in the more modern examples, because the blade was of stone 
and held in place by a rivet of bone. The line hole is most primitive 



^ 



^'Ni:i(!:!' 



Fig. 32. 
TOGGLE HEAD. 

West Greenland. 

Gift of Copenhagen Museum 

Cat. No. 45889, U.S.N.M. 



,l'"( 



'^1 



Fig. 33. 

OLD BARBED AXD TOGGLE 
HEAD. 

West Greenland. 

UoUected by Eniil Be.ssels. Cat. 
No. 45910, U.S.N.M. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



249 



and interesting, being formed, not ])v a sloping ciivity, l)ut by moans 
of a drill. The socket at the base is also eonieal. opening into the line 
hole, and two bar))s of equal size are formed by cutting away the 
material of the back. This l>ifurcation is found on man}' Greenland 
specimejis. Those who are ac([uainted with the Eskimo handicraft 
in localities where steel tools do not alnjund are interested to note 
what free and varied use these natives make of drills of different 
sizes. There are twenty examples of boring on this little toggle 
head, for the rivet, for the line hole grooves and socket, and })esides 
for mending a crack in the material. For this last purpose we have 
not only perforations for the sinew mending, but gutters bored one 
twenty-fourth of an inch deep, into which the cord was countersunk. 
This will be better seen bv an examination of the illustration. 





Fig. 3-1. 

OJ,D TOGGLE HEAD. 

North Greenlaud. 

(Jif t of ( 'i>iH'nhatren Museum. Cat. No. iT>9il. I'.S.N.M. 

The point of a barbed harpoon (Cat. No. 03938, U.S.N.M.), from 
Greenland, nmst be mentioned. The point is arrow-shaped, s3'mmet- 
rical, with two barbs. The tang is spindle-formed, with a cone at the 
l»utt end and pierced in two places for the insertion of the line connect- 
ing with the shaft. Length, .5i inches. Gift of Governor Fenckner. 

Similar to this is Cat. No. 63937, U.S.N.M., an old specimen from 
the same locality. The.se examples have their counterpart in the 
numerous points of the small barbed seal harpoon of the western 
P^skimo. 

An old barbed and toggle harpoon head (Cat. No. t)3940, LT.8.N.M.) 
from west Greenland, the gift of Governor Fenckner, is shown in Hg. 
35. The material is })one. The blade is wanting, and the blade slit 
has been cut awa}'. There are three rivet holes, and one of them, 



250 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



seen on the right side of the left-hand figure, is double. The barbs 
on the margin are cut out square, as with a saw, but the sides of the 
tang are curved in, lea^ang shoulders at their base, from which point 
the body curves outward to the end of the spurs. The line hole is 
formed, as in most examples of this kind, by two independent coni- 
cal bores which meet at their inner point. Line grooves are con- 
nected with these. The base is not cut off in a plane surface, l)ut has 
the appearance of being scooped out, beginning on the under side 
with a perpendicular surface, which slopes more and more toward the 





¥\g. o.'i. 

OLD BARBED AND TOGGLE HEAD. 

West Greenland. 
Cat. No. e-sgio. U.S.N.M. 



horizontal as the ends of the barbs are approached. This specimen is 
noteworthy for conserving the two tj'pes of harpoon heads in one, the 
barbs on th(» sides, and the toggle. 

A combined barbed and toggle harpoon head (No. 63941, U.S.N.M.) 
of antler from Greenland is represented in lig-. 36. It is rhomboid in 
cross section, sagged downward in the middle, and delicately made. 
The l)hide, of iron, formerl}- present, but now wanting, was held in 
place 1)3' a rivet. The line hole, formed by the meeting of two excava- 
tions, is curved, l)ut not visible on the back. Line grooves short and 
whittled out. Barl)s, three — two in front of the line hole and one at 
the butt. The barbs on the margin in front are sharp and prominent 
for su('h a small specimen, the cut of each being three-sided. The 
rear barb is cocked up and pointed, and its edges ornamented each with 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



251 



two crenate notches. Butt tut oii' at a sharp angle, nearly in a single 

plane; socket wide and shallow. Between the line holes and the socket 

is an ingenious combination of perforations and gutters for repairing. 

Length, 3f inches. Gift of Governor Fenck- 

ner, of Greenland. 

Of this same type and pattern, but ruder, 

is Cat. No. 45910, from Greenland, made of 

bone, and somewhat dilapidated. The hard 

bone forms the back, and the excavations 

on the belly are in the spongy portion; the 

reverse of this is usuallv true. The slight 

barbs on the edges are quite squarely sawed 

out and the single barb at the rear much 

bent upward. Length, 3f inches. Gift of 

the (,'openhagen ]\Iuseum. 

A combined barbed and toggle head (Cat. 

No. 63942. U.S.N.M.) from Greenland, 

made of l)one, is shown in tig. 37. Body 
flat on the bell}^ 
and conformed to the 
shape of the mate- 
rial on the back; an 
unwise method, be- 
cause in this case the 
spongy tissue has to 
take the strain. Sep- 
arate blade, none, the 
material being sharp- 
ened to a point and 

edge. Line holes small, set at an extraordi- 
narily acute angle to each other and barely con- 
tinued through to the back. Line grooves 
scarcely visible. Bar))s, four — two broad, angu- 
lar teeth in front, one on either side, and two 
angular toothed projections behind. Socket 
shallow and wide. Butt end gouged or dished 
out, so as to give free play to the loose shaft, 
and leaving the barbs, looking from the under 
side, like a pair of fins. Length, 4 inches. Col- 
lected b}^ Governor Fenckner. With this exam- 
ple should be compared Nos. 63940 and 45886 — 

the former of whale's rib, the latter of antler. Both these examples 

are of the same general pattern, but have had iron blades. It should 

be noted as a local peculiarity that the former has a three-sided notch 

at the front barbs, the latter onl\^ a two-sided notch. 

A toggle head of ivory (Cat. No. 63943, U.S.N.M.) from Greenland, 





Fig. 36. 

BARBED AND TOGGLE HEAD. 

West Greenland. 

t of Governor Fenckner. Cat. No. 
63941, U.S.N.M. 



Fig. 37. 
BARBED AND TOGGLE HEAD. 

West Greenland. 

Qilt of Governor Fenckner. Cat. 

No. 63942, U.S.N.M. 



252 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



in shape of ii coniprossed cone, elliptieal in section, narrow and sharp 
at the point, is shown in lig. 38. The blade, of iron, is much rusted and 
held in by an iron rivet. Line hole straight through the sides in a 
plane parallel to the blade. Line grooves short and slight. There is 
one barb terminating the back, but slightly ))ifurcated. The socket for 
the foreshaft is wide and shallow and the butt end whittled off with a 
slight incurve. Length, Sf inches. Gift of Governor Fenckner. 
Example GSO'M is broken, but similar, the Imtt-end 
curve being deeper and the tip not bifurcated (fig. 39). 
m A toggle harpoon head (Cat. No. 03945 , U. S. N. M. ) 

m 





Fig. 38. 

TOGGLE HEAD. 

West Greenland. 

Gift of Governor Fenckner. 

Cat. No. B3943, U.S.N.M. 



Fig. 39. 
OLD TOGGLE HEAD. 

West Greenland. 

(iift of Governor Fenckner. 
-• No. 63944, U.S.N.M. 



Fig. 40. 
OLD TOGGLE HEAD. 

West Greenland. 
Gift of Governor Fenckner. Cat. No.< 
U.S.N.M. 



from Greenland, made of bone and iron, is shown in fig. 40. The 
body is conoidal. the hastate iron blade being inserted into a saw cut 
in the pointed end and held b}^ a copper rivet. The line hole lies 
parallel to the plane of the blade; line grooves slight. The barb is 
bisected by the plane of the blade, as in many older specimens, but 
this sets the line hole perpendicular and entirely on the right face of 
the body. It is possible that the specimen had formerly two barbs. 
Shaft cavity cut oft' square below, the spur-like barb extending back- 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



258 





Fig. -11. 

TOGGLE HEAD. 

West Greoiilaiid. 

Gift ol' Governor Fenekiit 

Oat. Xo. f>391'.t, U.S.N.M. 



ward and upAvard. Length, 3^ inehos; widtli or thickiu'ss through 
line hole, seven-eighths inch; depth, tive-eighths 
inch. (Jift of Governer Fenekner. Similar to tliis 
specimen is Cat. No. <)3!>-J-i» (tig. -l-l), of l)on(\ in 
form of a tiat hexagonal prism, the point al)rui)tly 
cut otf. Line holes cut upward through the two 
lower faces. In this example the spur is on the 
left-hand side, if the line hole be taken as under- 
neath. It is a little difficult to understand how 
such an implement would toggle and hold. Length 
of (>;59-t!>. '2w inches. Greenland. Gift of Go^-ei'nor 

KiMickner. 
An old toggle harpoon head 

(Cat. No. 63iUr), U.S.N.M.). 

from west Greenland, made of 

hone all in one piece, in section 

a rounded triangle, is shown in 

fig. 42. The blade is formed 

Ity whittling the material to 

a pyramidal point with four 

faces. The line hole is bored 

straight through in the plane 

of the blade, enlarged and the rear edges whit 

tied down for line grooves. 

Bar])s, two, in fish-tail pat- 
tern on the back. Socket, 

three - fourths inch deep ; 

butt, whittled out with slight 

incurve; length, 2^ inches. 

Gift of Governor Fenekner. 

Example 63947 (fig. 43), 

from the same locality, is 

a modern specimen of bone, 

on the same order, but an 
iron blade was inserted at the point. The 
line-hole cavities pierce the back, the grooves 
are deeper, and the butt end is scooped out. 
Length of »)3947 is 2f inches; from Greenland. 
Gift of Governor Fenekner, 

A toggle head from western Greenland (Cat. 
No. 63948, l^.S.N.M.), in shape of a long rect- 
angular pyramid with rectangular cones, is fi?. 43. 
shown in fig. 44. Point formed by whittling old toggle head. 
down the sides. The })lade slit lies in the plane west Greenland. 

„ , , , . 1 (■ 1 1 I T • 11 '■''^'' °^ Governor Fenekner. Cat 

01 the long diagonal of the body. Line hole no. 03947, u.s.n.m. 



Fig. 42. 

SMALL TOGGLE HEAD. 

West Greenland. 

Gift of Governor Fenekner 

Cut. No. fi394G, U.S.N.M. 




254 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 




Fig. 44. 

OLD TOGGLE HEAD. 

West Greenland. 

Gift of Governor Fenekner. 
63948, U.S.N.M. 



run ill perpendicular to the two lower sides or faces, having slight line 

grooves. Barbs two, one on the right mar- 
gin, one on the left, their tips ^ying in the 
bisecting plane of the toggle heail. Socket 
extending into the line hole. Butt end whit- 
tled away equally above and below. Length, 
2f inches. Gift of Governor Fenekner. Cat. 
No. 63950 is of the same type, 2i inches long. 
A grave relic (Cat. No. 63950, U.S.N.M.) 
representing a small toggle head of a harpoon 
from Greenland, the gift of Governor Fenek- 
ner, is shown in fig. 45. 

The body, rhomboidal in section, the back 
and front being about 
alike, is made of a seg- 
ment from the co- 
lumnar portion of a 
bone. The fact that 
both sides are equally 
hard necessitates the 
forming of the shaft 
socket in the hollow 
part of the bone. The 
barbs are cut out of the two angles or wings 
on the two sides of the liody. The line hole 
is interesting, being ef- 
fected by cutting two 
holes perpendicularly 
into the two faces of 
the belly, meeting in 
the hollow part of the «*» 
lione. Each of these is 

flanked with a shallow gutter in which lies the 
line. The forming of a toggle head out of the 
middle column of a bone instead of a piece of 
ivory, antler, or solid bone is rare. Length, 2 
inches. 

An old toggle head (Cat. No. 63951, U.S.N.M.) 
from west Greenland is shown in fig. 46. The 
point has been broken oft', but enough is left 
to show a small portion of the blade slit. It 
belongs to the type of specimen 45855, and 
the socket in the base for the foreshaft is 
flanked by two equal barbs. A conmion type in harpoon heads from 
this area. The line hole on the end sidv is formed by the meeting of 





Fig. 45. 

SMALL TOGGLE HEAD. 

West Greenland, 
of Governor Fenekner. Cat. 
No. 63950, U.S.N.M. 



Fig. 46. 
OLD TOGGLE HEAD. 

West Greenland. 

Gift of Governor Fenekner. 
No. 639.il. U.S.N.M. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



255 



Fig. 47. 

SM.\I.I, TOGGLE HEAD. 

West Greenland. 

Gift of Governor Fencknpi 

Cut. No. 63952, U.S.N. M. 



two conical bores, afterwards smoothed down so as not to injui-e the 
line. This method of formino- the hole by the meet- 
ing of two separate cones is avcU 
known to students of archaeology. 
Four small perforations are seen 
l)(^tween the line hole and the 
socket, drilled for the purpose of 
stopping the further opening of a 
crack in the base. 

A small toggle head of bone (Cat. 
No. 63952, U.S.N.M.), blackened 
by age, from west Greenland is 
shown in fig. 47. It is square in 
cross section, one angle extending 
from tip of the point to tip of the 
barb and having a pyramidal point. 
There is no blade. Line holes 
bored straight in from the two 
lower surfaces, line grooves short 
and deep. Barb one, socket half 
an inch deep, butt end })eveled off diagonally from 
lower edge to upper edge. Length, 2i inches. Col- 
lected by Governor Fenckner. 

Cat. No. 63963 in the U. S. National Musevmi is a 
harpoon of bone from southwestern Greenland. It 
consists of two parts, the shank and the hinged 
toggle. The shank is pierced at one end to act as a 
hinge and at the other end in two places for the 
attachment of a shaft. The toggle is spindle shaped, 
hollowed on one side, and pierced with three holes to 
facilitate the hinging. This specimen is evidently an 
imitation or adaptation in bone of the iron fluke in 
the harpoons of the whalers. Length of shank, 4i 
inches. Gift of Governor Fenckner. 

The smaller harpoon shaft (Cat. No. 72.566, 
U.S.N.M.), from southern Greenland, is illustrated 
in figs. 48 and 49. This figure is introduced for the 
purpose of showing the details of the shaft, which are 
quite local. The loose shaft is made of bone or ivory, 
square at the base and socketed to fit over a .small pro- 
jection on the foreshaf t. Two holes are bored through 
the former, and through these and two in the end of 
the shaft a stout rawhide thong passes and is tightly 
drawn to form an elastic spring, useful in the ship- 
ping and unshipping of the loose shaft. What answers to the foreshaft 



Fig. 48. 

SHAFT OF SMALLER 
HARPOON. 

South Greenland. 
Collected by Chief Sig- 
nal Officer, U. S. A. 
Cat. No. 72566, U.S.N.M. 



256 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



in this spiM'iiiKMi is simply h t"ip of ivory with a little projection on the 
top. The hinoino- line is not {ittaehed to it in any way. The ivory 
pegs driven into the shaft near its lower end are for the throwing 
stick, which is peculiar to this i-egion, and for the eyelets used in 
tiuhtenino- the line when the toggle is in place and ready for action. 

Especial attention is drawn to the lower end of 
the shaft, on which are pegged or riveted two plates 
of ivory, which not only resem])le feathers on an 
arrow, })ut must perform a similar function. The 
foreshaft is so light that it could be of little use in 
giving directness to the flight of the weapon, but 
the feathers of ivory fastened on at the end would 
remedy this defect and steady the shaft in the air. 
It is thought ))y some that the existence of these 
plates of ivory on the base of the shaft is an indica- 
tion of the descent of the harpoon from the arrow. 

A kaiak lance (Cat. No. 74126, U.S.N.M.) from 
Holstenberg, Greenland, was col- 
lected by Capt. J. W. Collins. 
The shaft is of pine wood, ellipti- 
cal in section, tapering in ])oth 
directions from the hand rest and 
at the front, and swells out to tit 
neatly the foreshaft or cap of 
bone. • Upon the narrow side of 
the shaft in front of the middle 
portion are the linger rests, which 
consist of a peg of wood driven into a hole on one 
side and on the other a Hat portion of bone set in a 
quadrangular mortise, and having at the outer end 
on one side a groove for the finger. 

The piece of bone corresponding to the foreshaft 
is not more than half an inch in length, perfectly 
flat across the outer end. and at its middle portion 
is a slight projection or pivot. The loose shaft is of 
narwhal tusk, flattened in cross section and mor- 
tised into a })iece of ])one in form of a truncated 
cone. Its widest portion, with a slight socket in the 
middle, sits flat upon the cap or foreshaft. This 
particular combination is of a more advanced type 
than the ordinary ball-and-socket joint with the 
Cumberland Sound Plskimo, growing out of the fact that these Green- 
land Eskimo have })een for many centuries in contact with the Scan- 
dinavians. In this case the two flattened surfaces cause the lashing, to 
act as a sjning holding the foreshaft or blade piece straight in front 




Fig. 49. 

FORESHAFT AND LOOSE 

SHAFT OF FIGUKE -18, 




Fig. 50. 
OLD TOGGLE HEAD. 

Upernavik, Greenland. 

Collected by Theodore Holm. 

Cat. No. 130371. U.S.N.M. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



257 



of the .shaft. These two parts are united by means of a bit of raw- 
hide passing through two holes in the foreshaft 
and three holes in the k)ose shaft a foot from 
the end. The lashing is similar to that of the 
Cumberland Sound types, with slight loeal dif- 
ferences of administration. In front of the 
blade piece is the blade of iron, lanceolate in 
form, with truncated })ase set in a saw cut at 
the tip and held fast by a copper rivet. This 
lance is for stabbing the walrus or whale at 
close quarters from the kaiak. Length of shaft, 
62 inches; loose shaft, 8i inches; blade, 3i inches. 
An old toggle harpoon head (Cat. No. 130371 , 
U.S.N.M.) from Upernavik, Greenland, is 
shown in lig. 50. It has an iron blade riveted 
on to the front of the body, parallel to its i 
broadest diameter. The line holes were bored § 

c 

in from two directions, and apparently per- ^ 
forated the body after the manner of the toggle | 
head used on the Amur River and figured in = 
Schrenck. Length of body, 3f inches. Gift 5 S^ = 
of Theodore Holm. » ^ " 

A harpoon for killing whales (Cat. No. 90103), ^ < *- 
used by the Little Whale River Indians on the | o ^ 
coast of Labrador, is shown in lig. 51. The lie 
shaft is of wood, the foreshaft of bone. The r. ^ " 
base of it is wedge-shaped, and lits into the slit Z 
at the end of the shaft, being held in place § 
by a lashing of sinew cord. On the end of | 
the foreshaft lits the toggle head, with iron g 
blade held fast by two rivets. The body of ^ 
the toggle head is rectangular in cross section. 
The line hole passes through the sides and is 
not seen on the lower part. The wide barbed 
end is cut into three or four tooth-shaped parts. 
The line is of rawhide, plaited. The peculiarity 
of this harpoon is a board, somewhat circular 
in form, on the lower end of the shaft, which 
acts as a drag to the wounded animal, in place 
of a seal-skin float. The line passes between 
this board and the shaft, and has a handle or 
toggle fastened at the other end to be held in 
the hand of the fisherman.^ 

If Hearne be correct, the Eskimo west of 



'Lucien Turner, Hudson Bay Eskimo, 1894, p. 314, figs. 188, 139. 



258 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Hudson Bay have no other method of catching fish, unless it be bj^ 
spears and darts; for no appearance of nets was discovered either at 
their tents or on any part of the shore. This is the case with all the 
Eskimo on the west side of Hudson Bay; spearing in summer and an- 
gling in winter are the only methods they have yet devised to catch fish, 
though at times their whole dependence for support is on that article.* 

HARPOONS OF THE CENTRAL ESKIMO. 

Coming to the central Eskimo, Boas says of them that thc}^ inhabit 
the northeastern part of the continent and the eastern islands of the 
Arctic- American archipelago. In Smith Sound they inhabit the most 
northern countries visited by man, and their remains are often found 
at its northern outlet. The southern and western boundaries are the 
countries about Fort Churchill, the middle part of Back River, and 
the coast west of Adelaide Peninsula.^ In this monograph will be 
found an excellent bibliography of that area, which has been famous 
in historic times for the efforts made there to find the northwest pas- 
sage between the two great oceans. 

The harpoon or principal lance (unahk, Kane) of the Eskimo is 
attached to the sealing line. The rod or staff is divided at right angles 
in two pieces, which are neatly jointed or hinged with tendon strips, 
but so braced by the manner in which the tendon is made to cross and 
bind in the lashing that, except when the two parts are severed by 
lateral pressure, they form but a single shaft. The point, generally an 
arrow-head of bone, has a socket to receive the end of the shaft; it dis- 
engages itself readily from its place, but still remains fast to the line. 
Thus when the kaiaker has struck his prej^, the shaft escapes the risk 
of breaking from a pull against the grain by bending at the joint, and 
the point is carried free by the animal as he dives. At the right cen- 
ter of gravity of the harpoon, that point at which a cudgel pla3^er 
would grasp his staff, a neatl}^ arranged cestus or holder (noon-sok) 
fits itself on the shaft. It serves to give the kaiaker a good grip when 
casting his weapon, but slides off from it and is left in the hand at the 
moment of drawing back his arm.^ 

In the weapons used for killing their game there is considerable 
variety, according to the animal they are pursuing. The most simple 
of these weapons is the "oonak" (Parry), which they use only for 
killing the small seal. It consists of a light staff of wood 4 feet in 
length, having at one end the point of a narwhal's horn, from 8 to 10 
inches long, firmly secured by rivets and wooldings; at the other end 
is a smaller and less effective point of the same kind. To prevent 
losing the ivory part, in case of the wood breaking, a stout thong 

^Hearne, Journey, etc., London, 1795, p. 159. 

=" Franz Boas, The Central Eskimo, 1888, p. 414. 

»E. K. Kane, The Grinnell Expedition, New York, 1854, pp. 478 and 479. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 'J 59 

run.s along the whole length of the wood, each end passing through a 
hole in the ivorv, and the bight secured in several })la('es to the staff. 

A considerable degree of ingenuity is displayed in an appendage 
called '\siatko," consisting of a piece of bone 3 inches long, having a 
point of iron at one end and at the other a small hole or socket to 
receive the point of the oonak. Through the middle of this instrument 
is secured the allek, or line of thong, of which every man has, when 
sealing, a couple of coils, each from 4 to 6 fathoms long, hanging at 
his back. These are made of the skin of the oguke, as in Greenland, 
and are admirably adapted to the purpose, both on account of strength 
and the propert}^ which they possess of preserving their pliability even 
in the most intense frost.' 

Formerly the harpoon (unang, Boas) consisted of a shaft having at 
one end an ivory point tirmly attached by thongs and rivets, the point 
tapering toward the end. The point was slanting on one side, so as 
to form almost an oblique cone. Thus it facilitated the separation of 
the harpoon head from the unang. On the opposite end of the shaft 
another piece of ivory was attached, generally forming a knob. The 
material used in making the shaft was wood, bone, or ivory, according 
to the region in which it was manufactured. In Iglulik and in Aggo 
the narwhal's horn was the favorite material for the whole implement, 
a single horn being sufficient to make a whole shaft. Wherever wood 
could be procured small pieces were ingeniously lashed together. As 
the shaft is apt to be broken by the struggles of the animal when 
struck by the weapon, it was strengthened by a stout thong running 
along the whole length of the shaft. '^ 

A strange method of hunting is reported b}- Ross" as practiced by 
the Netchillirmiut. Eight men slowly approached the basking seal 
until it raised its head, when those in front stopped and shouted as 
loud as they could, on which three others ran up with incredible 
swiftness, and the leader struck it with the spear. ^ 

Boas says thai when the smaller bays are sufficiently frozen to 
permit, the hunters will visit the edge of the newly formed floe in 
order to shoot the seals, which are afterwards secured by the retriev- 
ing harpoon.* 

A fine old toggle head (Cat. No. 8278) from Smith Sound, was collected 
by Dr. I. I. Hayes, The body is of ivory, thin, spatulate in form, 
and lenticular in cross section. The blade of iron is almost concealed 
in a deep saw cut and fastened with an iron rivet. The line hole has 
been bored out with a drill that was too small and enlarged by cutting. 
One side of the bod}- having split off, and the other side cracked, the 

^ Parry, Second Voyage, London, 1824, p. 507. 
^Narrative, etc., London, 1835, II, p. 451. 
'Sixth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, p. 485. 

* Compare Murdoch's account of the retrieving harpoon. Sixth Annual Report of 
the Bureau of Ethnology, p. 420. 



260 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



()ope( 



Eskimo has inoenioush' drilled a series of holes along the marg-ins and 
repaired the sot^ket by means of sealskin thongs rolled backward and 
forward. The line in this case is a coarse thong of walrus hide, which 
through the line hole and fastened by a wrapping with a 
smaller thong, in which the Eskimo has exhausted 
liis ingenuity l)y a variety of knots and splices. 

A combined barbed and toggle harpoon head of 
))one (Cat. No. 8279 U.S.N.M.) from Upernavik, 
Greenland, is shown in fig. 52. Bod}^ long, irregular 
cylinder, whose diameter varies in proportion to the 
strain at each point, cut oflf quite abruptly at the point. 
The economy of material is noteworth3^ Blade cut 
shallow; iron blade broken oil', but its lower margin 
remains in the cut, held in place by means of an iron 
rivet. Line hole small, curved up and strengthened 
on the outside b}' an additional thickness of the body. 
Line grooves slight. Barbs, two, the front one a very 
prominent hook, triangular 
underneath, its rear margin 
also a shallow hook with 
rounded edge. In this respect 
the specimen is unique in the 
U. S. National Museum. The 
rear barb is cocked up and 
pointed. In the tip of this 
barb is a hole half an inch 
deep, and three small perfo- 
rations for rivets are to be 
seen above it. The precise 
use of these perforations is not known. Socket 
an inch deep, the butt end whittled off with a 
slight incurve. Length, 6 inches; diameter, 
three-fourths inch. Collected by Dr., I. I. 
Hayes. 

A loose head of a lance (Cat. No. 10136, 
U.S.N.M.) is given in fig. 53. A careful in- 
spection of this specimen, and others like it, 
will show that it lacks the essential qualities 
of a har|)oon, namely, of being hinged to the 
end of the shaft and of retrieving. There is 
neither barb nor toggle on this specimen or 

others of the same class. The hinged lance, either in the form of a 
weapon to be thrust or of one to be thrown from hand or bow or 
throwing stick, is exceedingly rare. Only in the areas where immense 
sea manunals are hunted is it thought necessary to guard in this way 




Fig. 52. 
OLD BARBED AND TOG- 
GLE HEAD. 



■ e n - 



Upernavik, G r 
land. 

Collected by I. 1. Hayes 
Cat. No. 8379. U.S.N.M. 




Fig. 53. 
LOOSE HEAD OF A LANCE. 

Repulse Bay. 

Collected by C. F. Hall. Cat. No. 

10136, U.S.N.)I. 



I 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 900.— Mason. 



Plate 6. 




Complete Seal Harpoon, Cumberland Sound. 
Collecteti by Georfjc Y. Nickerson. 
^ ,, , Cat. No. 19.=)19. U.S.N. M. 

NAT MUS 1900 IS 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



261 



against breaking the shaft. Indeed, it will ))e found that the Eskimo 
on the other side of the continent do not hinge the lance head, but 
nierel}' socket it and leave it in the animal stabbed. Collected bj'- 
Captain C. F. Hall. 

An old, much weather-beaten toggle head of })one (Cat. No. lO-iO-i, 
U.S.N.M.), without blade, from Repulse Bay, is shown in tig. 5-i. 
The body is perfectly flat on the back and uniformly ridged below, so 
that in section the form is that of a hat with narrow rim. The l)lade 
.slit in the truncated tip shallow and ^vide and there is no show of rivets. 
Linehole, large and straight through, with wide grooves before and 
l)ehind it. There were evidently two barbs, but after some mending 
one has disappeared. The butt was beveled nearly in a plane surface. 
Sockets half an inch deep. Length, 3f inches. Col- 
lected by Captain C. F. Hall. 

Example 19519, in the U. S. National Museum. 
Plate 6, is a complete toggle harpoon for seals, from 
Cumberland Sound region, collected by George Y. 
Nickerson. The shaft (qijuqtenga) is of hard pine 
wood, quadrangular in section, with rounded corners, 
thick in the middle, and tapering toward either end. 
The f oreshaf t (qatirn) or socket piece, about 2 inches 
long, is of walrus ivory, mortised neatly upon a tenon 
At the end of the shaft. In longitudinal section it is 
in the shape of a tanged lance blade, with the point 
truncated. The upper and outer end of the qatirn 
has a rounded socket for the reception of the loose 
shaft, to be described. At the lower end of the shaft 
is an ivory cap, set on and held in place by two wooden 
dowels. Upon the narrow margin of the shaft, absent 
in this specimen, is set a hand rest (tikagung), as a 
stop for the hand of the hunter when making his 
thrust. At right angles to the tikagung is a peg or 
Ifutton of ivory, which tits into the telliqbing or eyelet 
l)iece of ivory on the line. The loose shaft is a stout piece of ivory, 
spindle shaped, with a long taper in front and a very short tapering 
butt end. This tits like a ball at the socket joint into the socket. 

At the end of the qatirn or foreshaft two holes are bored through 
the loose shaft 3 inches from the socket joint. Corresponding holes 
are bored through the shaft 1 inches from the front end. An inch 
farther back from these two holes two other holes are bored near 
together. 

Looking at this apparatus from one side, a seal-skin thong passes 
from tne back forward through the upper left-hand hole in the shaft, 
up through the left-hand hole in the loose shaft, back and through the 
upper right-hand hole in the shaft, and up and through the right-hand 



M: 



Fig. 54. 
TOGGLE HEAD. 

Repulse Bay. 

Collected by C. F. Hall. 

Cat. No. 10404, U.S.N. M. 



262 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



holo in the loose shaft, and down to the lower right-hand hole in the 
shaft, through and back through the lower left-hand hole in the shaft, 
half waj' round the shaft, and gathered in a loose knot through the 
lower bend of the thong on the front side of the shaft. This ingenious 
joint deserves especial attention. It is put in place while wet or green, 
and by its shrinking forms a close hinge for holding the loose shaft in 
the socket of the foreshaft. When a large animal is struck and the 
loose shaft rammed into its body, the violent motion, instead of break- 
ing the brittle ivory, unbends the ball and socket joint, 
the thong serving as a hinge. 

The toggle head (tokang) is of walrus ivory, tiat on 
one side and obtusely angular on the other. On this 
same side are two large angular cuts, forming a perfo- 
ration entirely through but not piercing the Vjack. 
Barbs, two. 

The line (alirn) is of stout rawhide bent through the 
hole in the toggle head, and the end is joined to the 
standing part by being sewed together, and also seized 
or wrapped at either end of this sewing. On the alirn, 
at a point exact!}' corresponding to the hand rest, is 
sewed or run the teliqbing, which is a somewhat flat 
piece of ivory, having five holes for the stitching or 
braid of sinew and a quadrangular hole cut in the broad 
part to fit over the ivory peg on the side of the shaft, 
which draws the line perfectly tight and holds the toggle 
head on the tip end of the loose shaft. The line mav be 
continued to any length, where it terminates in a loop, 
and one or more bladders (avatang) may be attached to 
it. Length of shaft, 41 inches; loose shaft, 16 inches; 
tokang, 5 inches. 

The head (Cat. No. 25e)54, U.S.N.M.) of a whale har- 
poon from Hudson Bay is shown in fig. 55. It is made 
of walrus ivory, and probably by machinery. The U. S. 
National Museum possesses a large number of harpoon 
heads of this type. The angle on the back is sharp and the front is 
hexagonal. The specimen conforms to a model or type as if made in 
large numbers for trade with the Eskimo. 

The blade is of iron and neatly fitted into a socket in the bluntly 
pointed tip end of the body. At the upper inner corner of the blade 
is a perforation for the reception of a small line of sinew, which 
serves to retain the blade if it becomes detached from its slit. The 
socket is a shallow conical cavity, made to fit on the outer end of the 
loose shaft. The butt end is a long bevel, slightly incurved. The line 
hole is made with great care, being a large triangular opening with 
ample grooves on either side for the play of the line. The material is 



Fig. 55. 



HEAD OF WHALE 
HARPOON. 

Hudson Bay. 

Collected by J. H. 
Bartlett. Cat. No. 
256M. U.S.N.M. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Mason. 



Plate 7. 





O = 




I •? " 



I 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



263 



cut away economically at every point, so as to protect the line from 
abrasion. There is no separate becket, but the end of the line is 
spliced into itself to form a loop. 

No. 25554 is similar to the foregoing in most respects. The outline 
is a little more artistic, but the general form and functioning of the 
parts are precisely the same. Length of blade, 2i inches; length of 
body, 6 inches. 

Plate 7 is a typical broad toggle harpoon head (Cat. No. 34064, 
U.S.N.M.) from Cumberland Sound. The ivor}^ body is Ungulate in 
outline, nearly flat on the back, and rounded beneath for line hole and 
socket. Blade triangular, oblong, set 1 inch 
into the saw cut, and held in place by a large 
copper rivet. No blade hole is present. Line 
hole well back, large, bent up a little, and run- 
ning into very deep line grooves. Socket wide 
and shallow. Barbs, two, formed by the bifur- 
cation of the back. Butt end curved in and 
somewhat gouged out. Length, 5f inches. 
Collected by Ludwig Kumlein. The head fits 
back downward into a cover carved of a piece 
of pine wood. The point lies under two loops 
of baleen passed through the wood and f rapped. 
A rawhide thong fastened into the butt serves 
to wrap the toggle and cover together. Other 
specimens in the Museum, collected in the same 
locality b}' Mr. Kumlein, have precisely the 
same characteristics. The specimens are more 
slender. It will be noted that the blade, the 
barbs, or spurs at the base, and the bottom or 
inside of the line hole are in parallel planes. 
This is to be regarded as the old or primitive 
style. In the more modern heads, as will be 
seen, the line hole is perpendicular to the plane 
of the blade. Front and side views of a large 
toggle head from the Amur are given to show how the old type sur- 
vives in out-of-the-way places far apart, while the new type holds the 
intermediate localities. (Schrenck, Plate 42.) 

The head of a whale lance (Cat. No. 34067, U.S.N.M.) from Cum- 
berland Gulf, collected by Ludwig Kumlein, is shown in fig. 56. The 
body is of ivor}', in the form of a flattened conoid. The blade of iron 
is leaf-shaped, set into a saw cut at the point in the plane of the widest 
diameter of the head, and held in place by a bi-ass rivet. The shaft 
socket is a deep cone. On either side of the head a line hole is made 
by two borings, one vertical and the other horizontal and larger. Into 
each a line or thong of seal hide is drawn, with a knot on the upper 




Fig. 56. 
HEAD OF WHAL.K LANCE. 

Cumberland Sound. 

Collected by L. Kumlelu. Cat. No. 
34067, U.S.N.M. 



264 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 19(X). 




Fig. 57. 

TOGGLE HEAD, TAKEN FRuM 

DEAD WHALE. 

Cumberland Sound. 
Collected by Ludwigr Kumlein, 
after Franz Boas. C:at. No. 34069. 
U.S.N.M. 



end which tits into the horizontal bore and form.s a >)utton or stop. 
These two thongs unite about a foot below the head to form one con- 
tinuous line. Length of head, 3f inches. 

A broad, flat harpoon head (Cat. No. 34069, 
U.S.N.M.) of walrus ivory (tokang), taken from 
a large Balmia myi^ticetus caught in Cumberland 
Sound in 1S78. is shown in fig. 57. This specimen 
was collected by Ludwig Kumlein. The body is 
Ungulate in form, with a sharper curve below. 
The iron blade, ))roken off at the point, is deep, 
set into a saw cut, and riveted with iron. Near 
the left-hand corner is bored a blade hole for a 
securing line. The 
line hole is large, 
curved upward, and 
the grooves are deep 
for the thick rawhide 
line, but they do not 
perforate the head 
and they are not 
seen on the back of 
the toggle head. The 
butt end is gouged 
out in a spoon-shaped 
cavity and is bifur- 
cated to form two 
barbs, and these are split at their hinder 
extremity. The tips of the barbs have 
ornamental notches. The socket below the 
plane of the barbs is wide and shallow. 
Mr. Kumlein believes that this head was 
thrust into the whale while it was a year- 
ling, as the Eskimo do not attack a large 
one with their own weapons. Length, 4 
inches.^ 

A loose head of a seal lance (Cat. No. 34008, 
U.S.N.M.) is shown in fig. 58. Body is of 
ivory, blade pentagonal in shape, and fast- 
ened in with a rivet. The bod}- is conoid in 
form, with a square base. The socket for 
the end of the foreshaft is conical, and 
alongside of this at the margin two holes are bored, opposite each other, 
perpendicular for a notch, at which point the}^ are met b}' two other 




Fig. 58. 

LOOSE HEAD OF LANXE. 

Cumberland Sound. 

Collected by Ludwig: Kumlein. Cat. No. 

34068. U.S.N.M. 



^ Sixth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, p. 490, fig. 422. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



265 



holes hored in horizontally. Into these holes fit two rawhide thongs, 
by moans of which the loose heads are attached firmly to the end of 
the shaft. The noticeable feature about this specimen is the thor- 
oughly aboriginal stjde of boring the holes and of attaching the thongs. 
The slit is cut near the end of the thong, and 
through this the outer end passes, being )>ent 
backward. This forms a button which fits exactly 
into the horizontal hole on the side of the head. 
At the other end of the thongs in the drawing are 
shown methods of splicing practiced by the central 
Eskimo. There is nothing which exhibits their 
ingenuity more effectively than the way in which 
the difliculties are overcome by simple processes. 
A lance head (Cat. No. 34076, U.S.N.M.) from 
Cumberland Sound is shown in fig. 60. It can not 
be called either a toggle head or a barb, since it 
possesses neither characteristic. It is simply a 
pivoted lance head. Body. flat. Blade, of iron, 
irregularly rhomboidal. made to 
fit into the saw cut by a nail head 
driv^en under the edge, held in 
place by an iron rivet. 

There is no line hole in the 
harpoon acceptation, but on 
either side of the socket a hole 
is bored forward in the plane of 
the blade and met b}" a larger 
one bored inward half an inch 
from the butt end. Into each 
hole a rawhide line is made fast 
by means of a knot peculiar to 

the Eskimo, effected by cutting a slit a short distance 
from the end of the line and tucking the end back- 
ward through the slit. This knot Mill enter the larger 
hole on the side, l)ut will not pull through the smaller 
longitudinal one. The socket is conical, wide, and 
fully an inch deep. Length, -2 inches. Collected in 
Cumberland Sound by Ludwig Kumlein. Similar 
to this are 34068 and 34077 (fig. 59), and Boas figures 
another specimen after Kumlein's drawings. 
Cat. No. 73529 in the U. S. National Museum is a whale lance 
(anguvigang), from Cumberland Sound. The shaft (qijuqtenga) is of 
hard pine wood, possibly from a ship. Cross section elliptical and 
flattened. It is tapering in the middle in both directions. The fore- 








Fig. 59. 

LOOSE HEAD OK I.ANCE. 

Cumberland Sound. 

Collected by Ludwig Kumlein 

Cat. No. 34077, U.S.N.M. 



Fig. 60. 
LOOSE HEAD OF LANCE. 

Cumberland Sound. 
Collected by Ludwig 
Kumleiu. Cat. No.34u76, 
U.S.N.M. 



266 



BEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



shaft (qatirn) is a short head of bone mortised upon the end of the shaft, 
truncated arrow shaped, in longitudinal cross section. On the narrow 
side of the shaft, about one-third of the distance from the foreshaft, is 
a hand rest (tikagung) made oi^ a quadrangular bit of bone. This is 
perforated from side to side, laid against the shaft and lashed with a 





< 







Fig. 61. 

OLD TOGGLE HEAD WITH STONE BLADE. 

Cumberland Sound. 
Collected by Geo. Y. Nickerson. Cat. No. 19521, U.S.N.M. 



strip of baleen. At right angles to this on the broad side of the shaft 
is a peg protruding, resembling the peg for the line, but it is evidently 
an added part, as it has no function. 

The loose shaft of ivory has a blunt pivot on the inner end which 
fits into a socket in the foreshaft to form the ball-and-socket joint 
(Igaming). The head is irregular, hexagonal in cross section and in a. saw 
cut in the front end a leaf -shaped blade of iron is inserted and riveted. 
The loose shaft and the foreshaft are hinged together, as in other speci- 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 267 

mens, b}^ a thong of rawhide. This ingenious joint is most effective 
as a universal hinge. It can be easily unloosed and made tighter. 
By a universal hinge it is meant that in every direction the loose shaft 
is sustained in a line with the shaft b}' the rigidit}" of the rawhide, 
which is not so strong, however, but that when an extraordinary strain 
is placed upon the loose shaft the rawhide will give way in any direction 
and allow the pivot to come out of the socket and save the apparatus 
from breakage. No long line is used with this form of apparatus. A 
similar specimen is figured from the Berlin Ethnological ]\Iuseum, by 
Dr. Franz Boas.^ Length of shaft, 43 inches; loose shaft, 16 inches. 
The harpoon of the Cumberland area, as shown bj^ the previous 
descriptions and illustrations, is far more primitive and less affected by 
contact with Europe than that of Greenland or Hudson Bay type. In 
closing a study of this region attention is called to fig. 61, Catalogue 
No. 19521 in the U . S. National Museum. It can not certainly be defined 
as a barbed head, nor as a toggle head. It has the form of the toggle 
head, but the line hole, instead of passing through the bod}" above the 
socket, is a perforation in the end of the spur. A hole has been bored 
through this end in a line parallel to the axis of the Ijod}' and is met 
by another perforation on the side of the spur. The connecting line 
evidently passed up through this opening and was toggled b}- means 
of an Eskimo knot formed by cutting a slot near the end of the thong 
and turning the end back through the slit. The socket does not differ 
from that of other harpoons. The head, however, is a large and lan- 
ceolate blade of chipped stone, reminding one of the whale lance blades 
brought home by Ray from Point Barrow and described l)y Murdoch. 
The tang of this blade fits upon an offset at the end of the body and is 
held in place b}" a knot, also of sinew braid. The perforation in the 
spur for the connecting line is almost unique in the collections of the 
U. S. National Museum. One other specimen has a perforation at 
this point, fig. 52, Catalogue No. 8279. In this specimen, however, 
the perforation seems to have no function, since through the body 
of the toggle head there is a regular line hole with line grooves. 

HARPOONS OF ARCTIC ALASKA. 

The situation, the climate, the people, and the natural resources of 
this area are miimtely set forth by Murdoch. The harpoon, as will 
be seen, is related to all these. In his treatise on Point Barrow Eskimo 
the last-named writer describes and figures both seal darts and toggle 
harpoons, and these are included in our subject. He says that the 
Eskimo use. to capture the smaller marine animals, a dart or small 
harpoon having a loose barbed head of bone fitted into a socket at the 
end of the shaft, to which it is attached In' a line of greater or less 

^ Sixth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, p. 496, fig. 432. 



268 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

lenotli. It is alwaj's contrived so that when the head is struck; into 
the animal the shaft is detached and acts as a drag. At Point Barrow 
only the small form of dart is used. In ancient times a larger weapon, 
witli I (ladder on the side of the shaft, was employed. All kinds of 
marine animals are also pursued with toggle harpoons of the same 
general type, but of different patterns for different animals. They are 
divided into two classes, those intended for throwing and those which 
are thrust with the hand. Both classes agree in having only the head 
attached permanently to the line iitted loosely to the end of the shaft, 
and arranged so that when struck into the animal it is detached from 
the shaft and turns under the skin at right angles to the line. The 
harpoons of this arctic Alaska.n area are then explained and figured in 
great detail by Murdoch.^ 

The same writer says that before the introduction of iron it was 
discovered that when the blade of the toggle harpoon is inserted par- 
allel to the line hole the toggle head is less liable to pull out. At 
any rate, b}' a kind of necessity, the blade part of the oldest forms is 
transverse to the line hole. Also, b\' the exigencies of the broad 
body of bone and ivory, the blade of the Amur and eastern Eskimo 
regions is inserted parallel to the line hole. 

Late in the autumn, when the pack is driven toward the land by 
the north wind, the ice forms rapidl3\ The hunters travel over it, 
as soon as it will bear their weight, to look for the "alloos," or 
breathing places, formed in the new ice when quite thin; this is gently 
raised b}" the animal's head into a slight mound, and a small hole 
opened with its nose and breath. These spots would escape notice 
were it not for the congealing of the breath forming a little hummock 
of hoar frost on the surface. It is this which reveals to the hunter an 
"alloo," or breathing place of a seal. Every seal has not its own 
breathing places, but more probably the instinct of the animal causes 
it to form man}" when the ice is thin, and many are frozen up for 
want of attention. Later in the season, as the ice grows thicker, it 
floats higher, leaving a larger and longer air space beneath, as the 
seal, when it visits the "alloo," scratches awa}" the ice on the under 
side. 

B}' these places the hunter takes his position, and, for fear the seal 
will catch the scent of his person, he carries a small three-legged stool 
on which he squats, taking his position on the lee side of the seal 
hole, watching and listening for the game. Of course he can not see 
the seal, but if there is a little wind he can see the vapor of its breath 
and hear the slight ripple in the water caused by the act of breathing. 

When the hunter discovers the presence of the seal, his spear is sent 
crashing through the thin dome of ice into the animal, and so small 

' l^oint Barrow Expedition, 1892, pp. 218-240. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 269 

are the quarters that the seal is seldom missed. The ioe is then brokiMi 
away and the hole enlarged until the gaino can be removed, this work 
being" done with the ever-present ice pick. 

The implements used in this method of hunting seal are a harpoon, 
to the staff of which is attached an ice pick, a line, and a .stool to stand 
on. The stool serves the purpose of keeping the feet of the hunter 
dr}", for newly formed ice is alwa3'^s very damp, and the long, patient 
waiting by the alloos would wet the feet of the hunter, after which he 
could not remain because of the intense cold, for furs are little protec- 
tion if wet. At this season open water is formed by the current 
moving the ice, which presses together, leaving small spaces of open 
water. Seal passing these spaces will often come to the surface to 
breathe, and at such times fall an easy prey to the hunter's rifle and 
retrieving harpoon. 

I am indebted for the information giv(Mi aV)ove to Captaiii Heren- 
deen, who lived many years at Point Barrow. He also says that whale 
fishing is carried on in the months of April and May. 

On arriving home from the great spring reindeer hunt, about the 
1st of April, the Eskimo have a few days of feasting and consultation. 
The wooden dishes of steaming venison are carried to the council 
house, "Cuddigon Igloo," where the men are gathered to talk over the 
coming whale hunt, and the sages tell of the conditions of ice required 
to make a favorable and successful season. 

The wooden part of everything ^hat is put into the umiak or freight 
boat is whittled or scraped off' clean and smooth, so that the wood 
looks bright and new. 

The women prepare the sealskin floats or pokes, as the}' are called 
by the American whalemen, as follows: A seal is captured and the skin 
cut around the head near the eyes. When the skin is cut free from 
the blubber and turned back, and the flippers are reached, they are 
unjointed near the body of the seal and the process continued until the 
carcass is removed. The blubber is scraped clean from the flesh side 
of the skin, and the bones carefulU^ removed from the flippers. This 
is a delicate piece of work, for to cut the skin would ruin it for a 
float. After this is accomplished all natural vents to the bodv are 
closed 1)V tjdng them around an ivory stud made for the purpose. 
Through one of these a hole is drilled to inflate the poke. The 
neck is passed over a stick about 6 inches long b}' 1 inch in diameter, 
then sewed up and the stick brought up to the seam and very flrmh^ 
lashed with braided sinew. The poke is now blown up and stretched 
as much as possible by rolling and standing on it. Again it is scraped 
to remove the oil, and hung up in its inflated state to dry. After a 
few days it is oiled with the oil from the stone lamp. This dries more 
quickly than raw oil, and when dried again a coating is formed which 
is quite impervious to water. The lashing is now removed frona the 



270 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

neck, the skin careful!}- turned hair side out, a permanent lashing put 
on the neck and stick, when the poke is blowii up again and is ready 
for use. 

The harpoon line is made of walrus hide, very strong and often 
double. Its end is made fast around the lashing between the stick and 
the poke. Two pokes are used on the harpoon line, which terminates 
in a bridle. Still another poke is used as a trailer, the harpoon line 
being not more than 5 fathoms in length. The third poke or trailer 
has a small line 15 or 20 fathoms long. This trailer keeps on the sur- 
face and tells the hunters the position of the whale, thus making the 
pursuit much easier. 

The hai'poons used are to be found in the U. S. National Museum 
collection. The staff is about 10 feet long, tapering at each end. It is 
never thrown, but thrust into the whale, and great force is needed to 
drive this rather bulky instrument through the tough fibrous blubber 
when the cutting portion is formed of stone, as was alwaj^s the case 
before the advent of the white man. These people are so governed 
by superstitions that they fear dire disaster would overtake them if 
they did not use the stone cutting points of their fathers on the tirst 
whale; after that the}^ can use what seems best for the occasion. 

The other implements to complete the outfit of an umiak are as fol- 
lows: Three pokes well inflated and read}" for use, and from three to 
five more all ready to be blown up; a paddle for each per.son, the one 
used for steering being much larger than the others; an implement for 
bailing the umiak, made of the reindeer antler, as it is very desirable 
to remove the water as soon as possible after it leaks in; a long knife, 
fixed on a pole 10 feet in length, for cutting blubber and lean meat 
under water; three gaffs (hooks on poles) of different lengths, vary- 
ing from 6 to 12 feet, the hooks of ivor}-; these are useful to hook on 
to the portion of flesh to be cut off; a little bag with plugs whittled 
out to put in the mouthpiece used to inflate the pokes; these plugs 
are often broken, and an extra one must be kept on hand; a large 
wooden scoop to bail when a quantity of water gets into the umiak; a 
spare whale harpoon; a crutch to lash in the prow of the umiak to 
rest the harpoon on; the two tips of this rest are carved in a rude 
semblance to a whale's head; the skin of a crow, some eagle feathers, 
and a little earth in a small bag from the grave of some noted whale 
hunter, for good luck; some of these crow skins have been used many 
years and are in a most dilapidated condition, but are highly esteemed, 
for they have been present at the death of man}' a whale; great wis- 
dom is accredited to the eagle and the crow, and it is considered quite 
the proper thing to use this talisman in order to overcome the cun- 
ning of the whale; a couple of toggles made of ivory, in the shape of 
a whale; and straps to lash the pectoral fins of the whale when towing, 
so the fins will not drag heavily through the water; a bag of provi- 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



271 



O 



sions. The men of the boat's crew cany their guns to shoot passing 
seals during the wear}' wait for the whale to come. Two women will 
be found in most crews. Each woman carries a sealskin bag to thaw 
out the snow for drinking purposes; the snow is put in the bag and 
its mouth tirmly tied; it is then placed on her back between the inner 
and outer coat. The women also have their sewing 
outfits, to mend any breaks in the umiak. 

In hunting through the ice the Eskimo of Point Bar- 
row used a different shaped harpoon, with a long ivory 
piece on each end and a smaller head. As the seal 
comes up to blow they hurl this spear through the 
hole; then they drown the seal. After the animal is 
dead they haul it through the ice, picking the ice away 
until the hole is large enough to get the seal out. The 
animals do not freeze quickly, because they have such a 
coating of blubber. (Mr. Charles Browers.) 

A combined barbed and toggle harpoon head (Cat. No. 
1328, U.S.N. M.) of antler, from the Mackenzie River 
district, is shown in fig. 62. Body sagittate, tapering to 
a flat angular tip. Blade of iron, wdth a long rectangu- 
lar tang and a triangular point with slight projections 
at its base. The tang is snugly fitted into the slit and 
held b}^ an iron rivet. There is a line hole at one angle 
of the point, but it may have been there previously, 
since these Eskimos especiall}' work up all the old iron 
they get their hands on. 

Line hole straight through the bod v behind the lateral 
barbs, and without slight grooves. Barbs, three; two 
on the sides, on an arrowhead, ornamented with longi- 
tudinal lines, and one terminating the back in a point. 
Socket half an inch deep. Butt end having two faces, the lower almost 
at right angles with the body, the upper whittled thin under the barb. 
Length, 3f inches. Collected by C. P. Gaudet. To this special tj^pe 
belong also many other examples. The National Museum is under 
infinite obligations to Messrs. Robert MacFarlane, B. R. Ross, and 
R. Kennicott for Mackenzie River materials. 

A barbed seal harpoon (Cat. No. 16675, U.S.N.M.) for throwing 
stick. The shaft is of light pine wood, tapering backward, and is 
slightly thickened at the butt end. It is attached to the foreshaft by 
means of a socket and shank on the foreshaft. The foreshaft is of 
whale's bone, cj^lindrical. The tang is a plug cut on the end of the 
bone, fitting into the socket of the foreshaft, A hole is bored through 
the tang, through which the assembling line passes to hold the two 
parts together. The socket for the point is elliptical in section. No 
feathers are used. The point is of bone, delicate in form. Shank 



Fig. 62. 

BARBED AND TOG- 
GLE HEAD. 

Mackenzie River. 
Collected by C. P. 

Gaudet. Cat. No. 

1328, U.S.N.M. 



272 



REPORT OF NATIONAL^ MUSEUM, lUOO. 



oval in section. Barlxs, three on each margin. Line hole oblong. 
The line is of rawhide, one end fastened through the line hole )\v a 
triple splice. A))out midway the line is split and the two ends are 
fastened as a martingale — one around the shaft near the foreshaft, the 
other 18 inches from tlie butt end, ])oth b}^ a clove hitch. The assem- 
bling line on this specimen is short. It is pressed into 
the wood just below the juncture with the foreshaft and 
passes forward, then through the perforations in the 
foreshaft and backward, where it makes three clove 
hitches and then is continued backward, where the upper 
end of the martingale is attached, and is fastened off by 
a half hitch, the end being pressed into the wood. This 
specimen is from Kotzebue Sound, collected by W. H. 
Dall. Length of shaft, 49i inches; foreshaft, 5 inches; 
point 2f inches. 

A large toggle head of a harpoon without })lade (Cat. 
No. 38775, U.S.N.M.), from Diomede Island, is shown 
in fig. 63. It is of a typical form. The body is high and 
narrow, elliptical in outline, but having flattened faces 
here and there. The line hole is cut straight through, 
and is a flat ellipse in outline, 1^ inches long and three- 
eighths inch wide, with no attempt at line 
grooves. There is one immense barb 
formed by the back prolonged, ridged, and 
cocked up. The shallow socket is in a 
long cut or chamfer forming the butt end. • 
Length, 8i inches. Collected by E. W. 



Fig. 63. 

TOGGLE HEAD. 

Diomede Island, 
Collected by E. W. 

Nelson. Cat. No. 

38775, U.S.N. M. 



Nelson. To this same class of long, slen- 



der heads with large line hole belong the 
following specimens, with polygonal cross section. 

Cat. No. 48589 (fig. 64), from Kotzebue Sound, col- 
lected b}^ Nelson, is a little model in walrus ivory of a 
precisely similar head, with perpendicular blade and 
very long bevel at the butt end. 

A typical Alaskan walrus toggle head (Cat. No. 49167, 
U.S.N.M.), from Diomede Island, is shown in fig. 65. 
The body is of walrus iv^ory, conoid, with sloping faces 
on the back. Blade of iron, large in proportion, square 
at the base, set li inches into the slit, and held by a 
bone pin. 

Line hole otdong, straight through, widened behind, 
and flanked ))y two short grooves. Barl), one, angular; 
socket for the end of the shaft half an inch deep. Butt end cut oflf 
in a plane slighth^ warped at the socket. Length, 5 inches. Collected 
bv E. W. Nelson. 



Fig. 04. 

MODEL OF, TOGGLE 
HE.\D. 

Kotzebue Sound. 
roUeoted by E. \V. 

Nelson. Cat. No. 

48589, U.S.N.M. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



273 



A toggle head of a whale harpoon (Cat. No. oBHOi. U.S.N.M.). from 
Point Barrow, Alaska, oollectod by Captain Ray and described ])y 
Murdoch (1892, p. 238). is shown in hg. 66. Specimens of this kind 
are made for the market. The blades are trianguhir. the corners 
somewhat rounded oti'. The ])ody is of coarse 
whale's bone, from the rib or jaw. Onl}- two out 
of a large number collected b}" Ray are of ivory. 
The blade of this example is of 
brass, set into a saw cut in the 
end of the bod}- and held in place 
by a bone rivet. The bod}' is 
somewhat quadrangular in sec- 
tion, the line hole is well back 
from the blade, and the bod}- 
widens from the front to this 
point. The line grooves extend 
outward lieyond the base. The 
single spur is long and inclined 
upward. The base, contrary to 
the usual pattern. 
is somewhat con- 
vex. In the great 
mass of toggle 
harpoons the base 
is either concave 
or formed hy two 
planes which 
make a different 
angle with the axis 
of the specimen. 
But in this case 
the contrary is 
true. The socket 
for the foreshaft 
is wide and deep. 

A small toggle head (Cat. No. .56614, U.S.N.M.) of 
bone, from Point Barrow, for catching seal, is shown in 
hg. 67. Body conoid, flattened laterally. Blade lanceo- 
late, just fitting at its base into the slit of the head and 
fastened with an iron rivet. Line hole straight through 
and flanked by deep grooves. Barbs, two, formed Ijy a 
file cut in the back. This is a common practice on hundreds of mod- 
ern specimens. Socket for the shaft shallow and distinctly margined. 
Butt end formed by the meeting of two planes. Length, 8 inches. 
Collected by P. H. Ray. 

NAT MUS 1900 19 



Fig. 06. 
TOGGLE HEAD. 

Diomede Island, Bering 

Strait. 

Collected by E. W. Nelson 

Cat. No. 49167, U.S.N.M. 



Fig. 60. 

TOGGLE HE.\D OF WH.\LE 
HARPOON. 

Point Barrow. 

Collected by P. H. Ray. 
Cat. No. 56601, U.S.N.M. 



Fig. 07. 

TOGGLE HEAD. 
Point Barrow, 
Alaska. 
Collected by P. H 
Ray. Cat. No 
56614, U.S.N.M. 



274 



REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



A new sU'le toggle head (Cat. No. 56620, U.S.N.M.) from Point 
Barrow, is .shown in fig. 68. A large number of specimens of this type 
were brought home by the Ray expedition. The body is of antler and 
the blade is set into the saw cut at right angles to the plane of the 
body, barbed. The line hole is in the plane of the blade. The socket 
for the foreshaft divides the base into two parts with different slope, 
the one nearly perpendicular, the other with a slight angle, so as to 
form the barb. Of this specimen Murdoch sa3\s, "It is a newl}^ made 
model in reindeer antler of the ancient harpoon, but evidently by a 

man used to modern patterns, 
so that the blade is set in at the 
wrong angle." 

Walrus harpoons (Cat. Nos. 
56670 and 56672, U. S. N. M.) 
from Point Barrow, Alaska, col- 
lected by P. H. Rav, are shown 
in tigs. 69 a and h. The shaft 
of the former is of spruce, 71 
inches long, rounded, and taper- 
ing from the middle in both di- 
rections. The club-shaped fore- 
shaft is of ivory and has a 
wedge-shaped tang which fits in 
a cleft at the end of the shaft. 
The shaft and foreshaft are 
fastened together b}^ a whip- 
ping of seal thong put on wet, 
one end fastened through a hole 
in the shaft, and the whole kept 
from slipping by a ridge on each 
side of the tang. In the tip of 
the foreshaft is a deep, round 
socket to receive the loose shaft, 
a tapering i"od of walrus ivor}^ 
secured by a piece of seal thong 
passing through a transverse hole above the shoulder. One end is 
spliced to the thong; the other end makes a couple of turns outside of 
the lashing between the shaft and the foreshaft. On the side of the 
shaft and just above the middle is a line catch. 

No. 56772 is a similar togglehead harpoon with the line hole in the 
plane of the blade, foreshaft with square base, spindle-shaped fore- 
shaft, leader looped into the line hole and doubled at the outer end, to 
l)e spliced with the end of the line. On the shaft is a hook to be used 
in tightening the apparatus when the head is in place and also a stop 




Fig. 68. 

TOGGLE HEAD WITH LEADER. 

Point Barrow. 

Collected by P. H. Ray. after Murdoch. 

Cat. No. 56620, U.S.N.M. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



271 



^. 



276 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 




for the hand in thrusting. The details of this specimen are carefully 
worked out by Murdoch (p. 225). 

A sealing harpoon (Cat. No, 56774, U.S.N.M.) from Point Barrow, 
Alaska, collected by P. H. Ray, is shown in fig. 70. With respect to the 

use of this implement, Murdoch says that as 
the seals come up for air to their breathing 
holes or cracks in the ice a harpoon is used 
which has a short wooden shaft armed with an 
ice pick, and a long, slender loose shaft suita- 
ble for thrusting down the small breathing 
hole. It carries a toggle head, but has onl}- a 
short line, the end of which is made fast per- 
manently to the shaft. Such harpoons are 
used by all Eskimo wherever they are in the 
habit of watching for seals at their breathing 
holes. The f oreshaf t is simph' a stout band 
for the end of the shaft; 
the loose shaft is of bone 
and has two holes to 
receive the end of the as- 
sembling line, which not 
only holds the loose shaft 
in place, but connects 
the other parts of the 
shaft so that in case the 
wood breaks the pieces 
will not be dropped.^ 
An old bone harpoon head (Cat. No, 89331. 

U.S.N.M.) from Point Barrow, which is a compro- 
mise or transition between the barbed harpoon 

head and the toggle head, is shown in fig. 71<:^ 

Two long barbs on the margins are bilateral and 

symmetrical. Blade transverse to line hole, as in 

the small seal dart heads. The shaft socket groove 

is flanked on its margins with slots, through which 

a thong may have passed to complete the apparatus. 

Two specimens are figured by Murdoch. Length, 

4i inches. Collected by P,'h, Ray, U. S, A," 

Murdoch calls attention, in fig. 7l/>, to the similarity of No, 89544, 

U.S,N,M,, to a harpoon head collected l)y Nordenskiold at the 

ancient Onkalon house at North Cape,^ 

' Ninth Annual Eeport of the Bureau of Ethnology, fig. 239, 
2 Sixth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, p. 220, fig. 209 a and b. 
=* Ninth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, fig. 211, p. 220, quoting Voy- 
age of the Vega, I, p. 444, fig. 5. 



b « 

Fig. 71. 
OLD BARBED AND TOGGLE HEADS. 

Point Parrow. 

Collected by P. H. Ray, after Murdoch. 

Cat. Nos. a, 89331; b, 8954, U.S.N.M. 




OLD TRANSITION HARPOON 
HEAD. 

Point Barrow. 
Collected by r. H. Ray. after 
Murdoch. Cat. 
r.S.N.M. 



89337, 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



277 



A bone harpoon head (Cat. No. 89337, U.S.N.M.) from Point Bar- 
row is shown in fig. 72. It marks a step in the transition from 
barbed head to toggle in that the barbs are absent; a slot on each 
margin of the body marks the places where thej^ might have been 
inserted. The line hole is transverse to the blade. The barb of the 
toggle head is four-pronged and sits awry with reference to the blade. 
Length. ^ inches. Collected by P. H. Ray, U. S. A.^ 

A combined barbed and toggle harpoon head (Cat. No. S937T.U. S. N. M. ) 
from Point Barrow, rhomboidal in section, conoidal behind the barbs, 
bod}^ all in one piece, of bone or antler, long, slender, tapering from 
butt to point like a lance blade, is shown in fig. 73. 
When the line hole is horizontal the blade is vertical. 
The line hole is a small round perforation. Line 
grooves, narrow; furrows, uniform. 

There were at one time, possibh', barbs on the mar- 
gins of the blade, for there exists on each, at a distance 
of 2 inches back from the point, a groove seven-eighths 
inch long, three-eighths inch deep, and less than one- 
eighth inch wide, undercut in front. Into this groove 
or slat could have been inserted marginal barbs of bone, 
or perhaps of stone. The barb at the butt end is made 
up of a series of four-lobed projections of difierent 
lengths. 

The socket is a squared mortise into the bone, with 
one side quite open. On the margins of this space 
elongated slots are cut into an open, depressed space on 
the back, and the socket is completed by coiling around 
through them a string of animal tissue. 

With this specimen should be compared an example 
from North Cape, with top and bottom barb, oblong line 
hole decorated by furrows along the sides toward the tip, 
terminating in two branches and a cross line." Length 
of 89377 is 5 inches. Collected by P. H. Ray.' 

A combined barbed and toggle harpoon head (Cat. 
No. 89378, U.S.N.M.) from Point Barrow, of antler, 
all in one piece, is shown in fig. 74. The body is long, 
slender, and angular in its outlines, a flat triangle in 
section in front and pentagonal behind the barb. Line hole straight 
through very near the butt end and parallel to the plane of the point 
and lateral. barbs. Line grooves deep cut for a small rawhide line. 

There are three barbs, one on each margin, acute, the opening two- 
sided ; the rear barb is a sharp termination of the rigid back. Socket for 

' Ninth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, p. 220, fig. 210. 
'^ A. E. Xordenskiold, Voyage of the Vega, New York, 1882, p. 335. 
^ Ninth Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, p. 220, fig. 210. 



Fig. 73. 

BARBED AND TOG- 
GLE HEAD. 

Point Barrow. 
Collected by P. H- 
Ray. Cat. No. 89377, 
U.S.N.M. 



278 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



the shaft half an inch deep, butt end cut off, with two faces and a ridge 
in the middle. Length, 5^ inches. Collected by P. H. Ray. It is well 
known that all such angular material has been made with steel tools. 
Tho only attempt at decoration is a series of four short grooves extend- 
ing forward from the angles of the lateral barb — a 
common feature in Eskimo art. 

An ivory harpoon head (Cat. No. 89379, U.S.N.M.) 
from the Eskimo camp near Point 
Barrow, which marks that step in A 

the transition from the barbed head 
to the toggle head in which the line 
hole, line grooves, and shaft socket 
of the latter are complete, is shown 
in tig 7.5. Length, 5 inches. Col- 
lected by P. H. Ray.^ It is com- 
pared by Murdoch with a Chukchi 
f orm.^ The blade is long and tapers 
backward from the tip to the equal 
barbs, giving to this part of the 
specimen the form called sagittate, 
and occupying two-thirds of the 
length of the head. The tang of the 
blade and barl)s expands to form 
the body, through which the line 
hole passes directly, perpendicular 
to plane of the blade. The line 
grooves are straight and uniform in 
depth. The body widens from the 
barb on the side that is to become the 
spur or rear barb, the other side 
being straight. The shaft socket 
is in perfect alignment, and the base is a single 
gracefully curved plane to the point of the spur. 
A curious fragment of a combined barb and toggle 
harpoon head (Cat. No. 89381, U.S.N.M.) is shown in 
fig. 76. The parts are all from one piece of ivory ; the 
barbed head is transverse to the line hole, the line hole 
is somewhat triangular, and the specimen is much dis- 
colored and disfigured, showing that it is old. Either owing to the 
povert}' of material or on account of breakage, the after part of the 
toggle head is too narrow for a socket to the foreshaft. In order 
to remed}^ this defect the Eskimo hunter has made a furrow or cavity 



Fig. 74. 

COMBINED BARBED AND 
TOGGLE HEAD. 

Point Barrow. 

Collected by P. H. Ray. 

Cut. No. 89378, U.S.N.M. 



Fig. 7.5. 

BARBED AND TOGGLE 

HEAD. 

Point Barrow. 
Collected by P. H. Kay. 
Cat. No. 89379, U.S.N.M. 



' Figured by Murdoch in Ninth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, p. 220, 
fig. 211. 
'^ A. E. Nordenskiold, Voyage of the Vega, New York, 1882, p. 335. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



279 



on the side and cut s(iu:ire holes in the marg-ins of this cavity, through 
which a rawhide line could he run several times, and tliis would serve 
the purpose of the socket. This device may be seen on one other speci- 
men in the collection. Collected bv Philip H. Ra}', Point Barrow. 



r.s.x.:M.) fr. 





An old harpoon toggle head (Cat. No. 81^382. 
Nuwuk, in the Point Barrow region, made of bone, 
all in one piece, is shown in fig. 77. In fact, it is a 
l)arbed head, like that of the seal dart, becoming a 
toggle head. The part answering to the blade is a 
point on the bone with a single barb on the lower 
side or belly. From the base of the l)arb the body 
widens to the ))utt end. The line hole is transverse 
to the blade. The butt is cut off diagonally. The 
socket is wanting, but the bone is concave on one 
side. Mr. Murdoch thinks that a socket \vas pro- 
vided bj^ the lashing, as in Example 89381. ' Length, 
3 inches. Collected by P. H. Ray. 

An old-style toggle head (Cat. No. 89748, U. S. N. M. ) 

for a harpoon is shown 
in fig. 78. The body is 
of bone, quadrangular 
in section. The head is 
of chipped stone, with a 
tang set into the kerf in 
front of the body and 
held in place not l)v a 
rivet, but by a lashing 
of sinew twine. The line hole is at the 
extremity of the body, where it begins to 
taper to the spur or barb, which is slighth' 
bifurcated at its outer end. This is called 
an old-fashioned specimen because the 
blade of stone is in the plane of the greatest 
width of the bodj^ and is bisected by the 
line hole." 

A retrieving seal harpoon (Cat. No. 
89907, U. S.N. M.) from Point Barrow, 
collected by Ray, is shown in figs. 79 and 80. This specimen was 
supposed by Murdoch to have been invented after the introduction of 
the rifie. but in his description-' he makes the remark that though it is 
used at the present dav for nothing but retrieving, the fact of similar 
specimens having been brought bv the officers of the BJosmm shows that 



Fig. 76. 

COMBINED BARBED AND 
TOGGLE HEAD. 

Point Barrow. 

Collected by P. H. Ray. 

Cat. No. 89381. U.S.N.M. 



Fig. 77. 
OLD TOGGLE HEAD. 

Point Barrow. 



Collected by 
Cat. 



H. Ray, after JIuidoch' 
i. 89382, U.S.N.M. 



^ Ninth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, p. 219, fig. 208. 
-Iflem, p. 221, fitr. 212. 
^Idem, p. 231. 



280 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



i 



'^l 



it antedated the rifle. Such a retrieving harpoon is called nauliga. The 
.shaft (ipi'ia) is of ash, 4 feet 5 inches long and 1 inch in diameter, taper- 
ing very slightly to each end. The ice pick (tuu), of walrus ivory, l-i 
inches long and 1 inch wide, has a round tang fitting into a hole in the 
butt of the shaft. Close to the shaft a small hole is drilled in one 
edge of the pick, and through this is passed a bit of seal thong, the 
ends of which are laid along the shaft and neatl}^ whipped down with 
sinew braid, with the end wedged into a slit in the wood. The fore- 
shaft (ukumailuta) is of walrus ivory, 4i inches long 
and li inches in diameter at the thickest part, and 
secured to the shaft by a whipping (ni'xma) of seal 
thong. The loose shaft (igimu) is also of ivorj?- and 2- 
inches long, and secured by a thong (ipiuta) spliced 
into a loop through the hole at the butt, as previously 
described. The end is hitched round the tip of the 
shaft with a marlin hitch, followed b}^ a clove hitch 
below the whipping. The ivory finger rest (ti'ka) is 
fastened on with a lashing of whip cord (white man's) 
passing round the shaft. The line catch (ki'lerbwin), 
which was of ivory and shaped like those on the walrus 
harpoons, has been lost in transportation. The head 
differs only in size from those intended for the bearded 
seal, except in having a hexagonal body. It is 3.S 
inches long and has a blade of iron fastened into a bod}^ 
of walrus ivory with a single wooden rivet. While 
there is no detachable leader, the head is attached by 
a separate piece of the same material to the line 
(tukaksia), which is 86 feet 10 inches long and made 
of a single piece of fine seal thong about one-eighth, 
inch thick. This shorter piece is about 27 inches 
long, and is passed through the line hole and doubled 
so that one part is a little the longer. 

It is fastened strongly to the end of a line hj a com- 
plicated splice made as follows: A slit is cut in the end 
of the main line, through which are passed both ends of 
the short line. The longer part is then slit about 2 
inches from the end, and the shorter part passed through the slit, 
and a slit cut close to the end of it, through which the longer end is 
passed. The whole is then drawn taut and the longer end clove 
hitched round the main line. 

Catalogue No. 129585 in the U. S. National Museum is a barbed 
harpoon (for throwing stick) from Cape Blossom, and collected by 
Capt. M. A. Healy, of the U. S. Revenue Marine. The shaft is of 
light pine wood, tapering back toward the butt end. It is socketed to 
receive the shank or tang of the foreshaft, which is plug-shaped and 



h 



Fig. 78. 

OLD STYLE TOGGLE 
HEAD. 

Point Barrow. 
Collected by P. H. Ray, 
after Murdoch. Cat. 
No. 89748, U.S.N.M. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



281 



Vj 




y 



a o a 



282 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

fitted in, all being- held together by sinew braid. The foreshaft is of 
whale's l)one, cN'lindrical. The socket for the point is oblong. Feath- 
ers, two, especially noteworthy. The tip end of a half feather is 
punched into the Avood near the neck, bent at right angle and carried 
forward and lashed down by the assembling line. The fibrous part of 
the feather is on the inside, between the rib and the shaft of the har- 
poon. This style of feathering is seen on example 48153, from Sledge 
Island, with three feathers; on 34020, from Norton Sound, and on 
several specimens from Golof nin, and does not occur any farther south. 
The point is of bone, concave on one side and convex on the other. 
Barbs, three on one margin and two on the other. The tang of the 
point is wide and fiat. The line is of seal hide; martingale formed bj'^ 
splitting the line in the middle and tying- the two ends to the shaft. 
There are two assembling lines — one extending from the upper knot 
of the martingale to the joint of the shaft and foreshaft, where it forms 
the seizing between the two; the other begins with the lower knot of 
the martingale, where one end of sinew thread is punched into the 
wood, passes backward, and is fastened oft' by a clove hitch. It then 
returns to the starting point, where it is again fastened off, and goes on 
to the feather by a series of turns and half hitches, laid on much as the 
sinew on the sinew-biick bow. This is very interesting. Length of 
shaft, 44: inches; foreshaft, 4^ inches; point, 2 inches. 

Example No. 129574, in the U. S. National Museum, is a barl)ed 
harpoon from Cape Krusenstern, Kotzebue Sound. The delicate shaft 
is conical in shape, tapering- from the foreshaft backward, and slightly 
flattened in its thicker poition. It is socketed in the larger end for 
the reception of the foreshaft, and slight!}' stained red. 

The foreshaft is of whale's bone, cylindrical in shape. The tang fits 
in the open socket of the shaft, and on the outside the two bodies are 
trimmed down so as to form one continuous surface. Seizing of sinew 
twine. The socket for the point is quite large and extends across the 
wooden plug inserted in the end of the bone. 

The hand rest is a slight hook of ivory set in the shaft, pierced with 
one triangular hole and held by a wrapping of sinew thread, which is 
also continued around the shaft a dozen times and fastened oft' by being 
punched into the wood. 

The point is of bone, fiat on one side and rounded on the other. 
Broad shank. Line hole almost circular. Barbs, three on one mar- 
gin and two on the other. On the flat side of the point a shallow gut- 
ter is cut from the line hole forward. 

The line is of seal skin. Gne end passes through the line hole and is 
fastened by a conmion slip knot; the other end is made fast to the 
shaft, about !♦ inches behind the hand rest, with a clove hitch of three 
turns. 

The assembling line is of rawhide, one end caught under the seizing 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Mason 



Plate 8. 





Barbed Harpoon, with Hand Rests, St. Michael Island, Alaska. 

Collected by E. W. Nelson. 

Cat. No. 36068, U.S.N. M. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 288 

between the shaft and foreshaft. and the other end pressed into a 
groove in the wood and held l)v a small wedge. 

This delicate specimen is the only example of the class of l)arV)ed 
harpoons with hand rest cominof from a point north of Bering Strait. 
Length of shaft, 4 feet 3 inches; foreshaft, 7 inches; point, 3 inches. 
Collected by Capt. M. A. Healy. of the U. S. Revenue ^Marine. 

HARPOONS OK BERING SEA. 

The harpoons of this area were fulh' described and figured by Nel- 
son in 1899, who had the advantage of having seen the specimens at 
work. The massive harpoons of Greenland and the central Eskimo 
are wanting here, but the greatest variety- of forms and parts is to be 
found. Again, if the flat varieties of eastern Asia, with line hole in 
the plane of the blade, are the more aboriginal, their nearest kin are 
to be seen, not in Bering Sea, but around Greenland. It is as when an 
Oxford professor, wishing to know something of his old-time kin, 
visits, not the nearest English town, but the heart of some New AVorld 
<?olon3'. The Bering Sea Eskimo h;:ve been profoundly afl'ected by the 
vigorous prosecution of the fur trade during the past century and a 
half. The possession of steel tools has revolutionized their flne art; 
but, fortunately for this study, the harpoon has kept more loj'^alh' to 
its ancient models. There are barbed varieties, toggle varieties, and 
.some are mixed. There are those which are thrust with the hands, 
others are hurled from the hand, and very many are cast from throw- 
ing sticks. Of this last-named implement a number of type forms are 
to be seen between Mackenzie River and Sitka. Here also will be 
found feathered harpoons, those with bladders attached to the shaft, and 
harpoon aj*rows. In the more southern portions of the Bering Sea area 
the harpoon attains a finesse in structure and appearance nowhere else 
seen. The collections from this area made b}- Nelson, Turner, Dall, 
Applegate, and Johnson are unparalleled for comparative stud3^ 

Among a large collection of these seal darts or barbed harpoons 
from Unalakleet, in the nortlieast corner of Norton Sound, a great 
majority have cj^lindrical foreshafts made of whale's bone, but one 
•or two specimens have the heads of walrus ivory and the front end 
tapered in conical form. Farther south this characteristic is more 
abundant. Barbs on the points are three on one margin and two on 
the other, and two on one margin and one on the other. 

According to Lueien Turner, the harpoon darts with very thick 
foreshafts and elongated bladders attached to the shaft are for salmon. 
They are confined to Bristol Bay and the south side of the Alaskan 
peninsula, so far as the U. S. National Museum is concerned. 

Cat. No. 33859 in the U. S. National Museum is a barbed harpoon 
thrown from the hand by means of a hand rest on the shaft. Quite 
similar is No. 36068, as shown in Plate 8, described in Nelson, 1899 



284 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

(p. 138). Unless othei'wise mentioned the specimens described below 
were collected b}- E. W. Nelson. 

The shaft is of soft wood, tapering backward to a point, oval in 
cross section, and stained red in the front portion. For the attach- 
ment of the f oreshaf t a roug-hl}- conical socket is excavated, and on the 
upper side of this socket a slot is cut through from the outside. In 
the harpoons whose foreshafts are attached in this way this slot is 
universal — that is, the tang of the f oreshaf t is not driven into a cavity 
which it iits, ))ut is set in a cavity with two margins which can be 
driven close together b}- the shrinkage of the seizing. 

The foreshaft is of whale's bone, nearly cylindrical, and cut off 
square in front. The tang is conoidal in form and terminates with a 
shoulder where it joins the body of the foreshaft. A plug of wood is 
inserted in the front end of the foreshaft, with a socket for the tang of 
the point. Feathers, none; but on the side of the shaft, just behind 
the center of gravit}", is a flat piece of antler or bone set on and held in 
place by a lashing of rawhide thong. This serves as a stop for the 
end of the harpoon, the latter being driven like a javelin from the 
hand, without the use of a throwing stick of any kind. 

The point is of bone, flattened on one side and round on the other, 
much larger than that of the variet}^ hurled with a throwing stick. 
The shank is a flattened cone. Barbs, three on one margin and two on 
the other. In all of this class of harpoons the edges or sides of the 
point are sharp, and the margins of the barb are straight on one side 
and curved on the other. The line hole is oblong. 

The line is of rawhide thong, one end attached to the point and the 
other end to the shaft back of the middle by a clove hitch. 

The assembling line .s fastened around the tang of the foreshaft 
near the shoulder and is continued back underneath the lashings, of 
different kinds, to near the top end, where it is driven into the wood 
and forms a smooth fastening. 

Length of shaft, 52 inches. Length of foreshaft, 8 inches. Length 
of point, -i inches. This specimen is from St. Michael. Collected by 
E. W. Nelson. 

A toggle head harpoon (Cat. No. 33888, U.S.N.M.) from Norton 
Sound is shown in flg. 81. The head is of ivory. The noticeable fea- 
tures about it are: The blade is in the same plane as the line hole; the 
line hole goes directly across the bod}^ of the head; the shallow socket 
is exactly behind it and in a line with the saw cut. There is a single 
barb or spur projecting behind the socket on top of the toggle head. 
The foreshaft is a long spindle of l)one, tapering in front to lit the 
socket of the toggle head, and having a short cone at the base for the 
cavity in the end of the foreshaft. A hole is pierced through the fore- 
shaft and a loop or becket passed through this opening and around the 
line, so that when the animal is struck the foreshaft is withdrawn from 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Mason. 



Plate 9. 




Barbed Harpoon, with Hand Rest and Bladder, Norton Sound. 

Collected by E. W. NelsoTi. 
Cat. No. 33933, U.S.X.M. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



285 



I 



the head and roniains attached to the line. This feature should be 
carefully noted. The shaft is of wood, the fore- 
shaft of ivory, and swollen or bulbous at the outer 
end. It fits into the wedge-shaped cut on the end of 
the shaft and is held tight ]\y a lashing- of rawhide. 
This lashing continues the whole length of the shaft, 
being caught around it at intervals with half hitches, 
forming an assembling line. Attached to' the shaft 
is a hand rest about the center of gravity and a 
sharpened piece of bone at the other end. The line 
from the toggle head, after passing through the 
loop on the loose shaft, is attached to the shaft 
about the middle, so that the latter forms a drag 
when the animal is once struck. This implement is 
not thrown by means of a throwing stick, but from 
the hand of a hunter. Collected by E. W. Nelson. 

A barbed harpoon (Cat. No. 33910, U.S.N.M.) 
from the Norton Sound area, to be thrown from the 
hand and not from a throwing stick, is shown in 
fig. 82. The shaft tapers from the front to the 
rear end, and has a hand rest on the side, held down 
by sinew thread. The foreshaft is a cylinder of 
bone, and fits into the open socket of the shaft b}- 
means of a projection or tenon. The harpoon head 
is a barbed piece of bone. The line passes through 
the line hole in the head and is wrapped several 
times around the shaft, fastened off with a series of y 

half hitches, and nearer to the butt end. The as- | 

sembling line, in this example, is different from the 
one just described. When the animal is struck, the 
head is withdrawn from the foreshaft, the thong- 
unwraps from the shaft, which stands straight in 
the water and acts as a drag to the captured ani- 
mal. It is from St. Michael. 

A barbed harpoon with hand rest (Cat. No. 33933, 
U.S.N.M.), from St. Michael, Alaska, is shown in 
Plate 9. The shaft is of pine wood, elliptical in 
section, pointed in the rear, widening toward the 
middle and then narrowing again toward the fore- 
shaft. The foreshaft is of bone or antler, a ffat 
C3dinder in section and a truncated cone in outline. 
It has a hole in the base and is fitted over a projec- 
tion or tenon in the end of the shaft. This method 
of joining is worthy of notice. The shoulder of the 
shaft forms a neat joint with the rear of the foreshaft. In tlie middle 
NAT MUS 1900 20 



Fig. 81. 

TOGGLE HEAD H.\RPOON. 

Norton Sound. 

C'ollected by E. W. Nelson. 

Cat. No. 33888. C.S.N.M. 



286 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



of the body of the foreshaft a gutter is carved to receive the knot in 
the line. A hand rest on the middle of the shaft i.'$ 
triangular in outline, with a wav}^ margin and short 
liutings on the surface. It is pierced with three holes 
and set against the side of the shaft, where it is laid in 
place b}' wrappings of sinew thread. The fastening off 
of the lashing by being punched in the soft tissue of the 
wood is quite characteristic in Eskimo manufactures. 
The head has three barbs, one on one margin and two on 
the other, and is flattened on one side and angular on 
the other. The tang is flat and shouldered. The line 
hole is an oblong opening, just large enough to hold the 
rawhide thong and give it play. The line, which serves 
also for assembling line, is of stout sealskin. The small 
bladder is attached to the shaft. Its mouthpiece and 
lashings are well shown in the drawings. 

Specimen No. 33948 in the U. S. National Museum is 
a bridle harpoon for a throwing stick, from the mouth 
of the Yukon River, collected by E. W. Nelson. The 
shaft is of light pine wood, top-shaped at the tip, 
suddenl}" narrowed, and then gradually widened to the 
butt end, where it is quite expanded. It is socketed 
for the shank of the foreshaft. The foreshaft is of 
ivory, attached to the shaft by a tang which fits intO' 
the socket. It is perforated just below the shoulder 
for the reception of a loop of rawhide, which is caught 
on either side under the seizing, binding the shaft and 
foreshaft together. This serves as an extra strength- 
ening or as a retrieving device. The tip end of the 
foreshaft is tapered and a wooden plug inserted for 
the reception of the point. Two whole feathers are 
attached in the usual manner, punched into the wood, 
all their tip ends and the butt ends held down by a 
wrapping of the assembling line. The assembling line 
passes from the front end of the shaft to the inner 
end of the feathers. The point is of ivory, line hole 
oblong, tang conical, with a shoulder. Martingale of 
sinew string, the two ends fastened in the usual place — 
one near the foreshaft, the other back of the middle, 
fastened by a clove hitch. The assembling line acts as 
a lashing for the shaft and the foreshaft, passes back- 
Avard by the regular series of half hitches, and is fas- 
tened, oft' at the butt end as a seizing to the feathers. 
Especial attention is called, to the hole near the tang 

of the foreshaft; a similar hole is found through the inner end of the 



Fig. 82. 
BAKBED HAKPOON. 

St. Michael Island. 

Collected by E. W. Nel- 
son. Cat. No. 33tfl0, 
U.S.N.M. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 287 

foreshaft near the tang. This peculiarity is almost entireh' conlined 
to the area between Cape Dall and Nunivak. Length of shaft, 46 
inches; foreshaft, 5 inches; point, 3i inches. 

Specimen No. 33952 in the U. S. National Museum is a barbed 
harpoon without bridle for throwing stick, from Askeenuk, below 
Point Dall, collected by E, W. Nelson. The shaft is of light pine 
wood, nearly uniform thickness throughout, slightly expanded at the 
butt, and cut into a truncated wedge in front, which fits into a smaller 
slot in the foreshaft. The foreshaft is of iyory, almost cylindrical, 
and a little expanded in the front and tapering toward the tip, into 
which a plug of wood is inserted for the reception of the tang of the 
point. Into the butt end of the foreshaft is sawed a wedge-shaped 
slot on the ends of the wings. These formed projections are left for 
the lashing which joins the two parts together. The lashing is also 
held in place at the other extremity cf the joint by shoulders on the 
foreshaft wrapped with sinew braid, which forms a strong joint. 
Three feathers are pressed into the wood near the butt end and 
wrapped with sinew braid at their inner extremities, the braid con- 
tinuing to form the assembling line of the shaft. Here, as in other 
examples, a dozen or more turns are closely wrapped around the shaft 
about a foot from the end. The point is of bone. Barbs, three on 
one side and two on the other. Line hole oblong and cjuadrangular. 
Tang conical and shouldered. Through the line hole is fastened a 
narrow sealskin thong 3 feet or more long. This is attached by its 
other end around the shaft near the joint with the foreshaft by a cloye 
hitch. AVhen the point is driyen into a seal. by means of a throwing 
stick, the tang is withdrawn from the foreshaft, which sinks in the 
water, and the shaft floats with the feathers upward to act as a buoy 
and also as a drag to slacken the pace of the animal. Similar to this 
are Nos. 33950, 33949, 33954, and 33955. In all of these the line is 
fastened to the shaft near the foreshaft. Length of shaft, 44^- inches; 
foreshaft, 6i inches; point, 3 inches. 

Examples Nos. 34004, 34011, 34016, 34020, 34002, 34008, 34017, 34022, 
34018, 34001, 34023, 34014, 34003, 34021, 33992, 33991, 33999, 33994, 
33978, and 33995 in the U. S. National Museum are barbed seal har- 
poons for throwing sticks, and form a large collection of these objects 
from yarious places around Norton Bay. They haye foreshafts of 
whale's bone, C3"lindrical, attached to the shaft by a shank fitted into 
a socket in the end of the shaft. 

The shank of the foreshaft.is somewhat wedge-shaped in cross sec- 
tion, the edge of which is run through a slot extending from the out- 
side to the inside of the end of the shaft, to allow the shrinking of the 
sinew wrapping on the outside to bind all the parts strongly together. 

Most of these specimens from this area haye two feathers, though in 
some cases there is onl^^ one. 



288 



REPORr OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 




The head and contiguous parts of a small 
toggle harpoon (Cat. No. 37380, U.S.N.M.) 
for seal, from Chalitniut, collected by E. W. 
Nelson, is shown in lig. 83. The bod)- of the 
head is of ivory, somewhat rectangular in cross 
section, but carved and flattened on both sides 
in parts of threes. The blade is set into a saw 
cut at the tip of the head and not held by any 
rivet. The socket for the loose shaft is a slen- 
der cone truncated within, the front end of the 
loose shaft being sawed off. The butt end of 
the bod}" is beveled out. A long slope and 
three barbs are formed at the hinder edge of 
this bevel and ornamented with concentric 
circles and lines. The line hole passes straight 
through the body, as in many other examples 
of this type. The loose shaft is a spindle- 
shaped piece of bone, longer on the front slope. 
The hinder end is sharpened to lit into a groove. 
In the end of the foreshaft a hole is bored 
through the thick portion of the loose shaft, 
and through this hole and around the leader or 
line is formed a grommet of sinew cord. The 
two ends of the leader are overlapped and 
vuiited b}' a notch. 

A small toggle harpoon (Cat. No. 37395, 
U.S.N.M.) of the Alaskan Eskimo, at Chalit- 
niut, on the north of Kuskokwim Bay. is shown 
in fig. 84. It is a tvpe of the region and is 
made with a great deal of artistic skill. Blades 
are nowadays of brass, copper, and other met- 
als, often of slate, inserted into a small toggle 
head of ivory transversely to the plane of the 
barbs, the plate intersecting the barb, which 
is bifurcated and sometimes trif urcated. The 
body is also ornamented with graceful lines, 
herring bone patterns, and circles. Into the 
socket of the headpiece is inserted the point 
of a small bone loose shaft, which fits by 
its lower end into a shallow socket of the 
foreshaft. Through the line hole of the head 
is a loop of rawhide, the ends neatly spliced 
together b}' a frapping with sinew string. 
The loose shaft is kept from being lost by a 
little grommet, made of sinew passing through 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



289 



speci- 



p? s- = "^ 



it and around the rawhide loop. The whole work of all these 
mens is very neatlj" done. Length of head. If 
inches. Collected by E. W. Nelson. 

Catalogue No. 37955 is a toggle head of seal 
harpoon. The parts of this specimen which are 
attached are the head, with its loop or leader, and 
the loose shaft, with its runner or grommet of 
rawhide passing over and inclosing the leader of 
the head. 

The body is of Ijone or ivory in the form of a 
flattened cone. The spur is beveled and curAcd 
up at the point. Two delicate barbs are parallel 
on the outside and divided by a furrow along the 
back. Blade of iron, triangular, with convex 
edges, inserted in the blade slit and riveted. 
Plane of the blade parallel with the line hole. 
Shaft socket in the spur narrow and deep. Line 
hole transverseh' through the body. Line grooves 
extended to the end of the barbs and ornamented 
with engraved lines. Leader of rawhide, neatly 
spliced by seizing at the ends, and the space be- 
tween lashed with double hitches passing between 
the rawhide ends. A narrow seizing holds the 
two elements close to the toggle head. It may be 
questioned whether the peculiar curves of back 
and belly give the head a start in toggling itself 
in the wound, 

Foreshaft of bone, spindle-shaped, and attached 
to the loop of the toggle head b}" a small running 
loop or grommet of rawhide. 

Length, 'd-k inches, Eskimo of Sfagamute, north 
of Bristol Bay. Cat. No. 37955, U. S. National 
Museum. Collected liy E. W. Nelson. 

The illustration in Plate 10 shows the construc- 
tion of the larger Bering Sea harpoons (Cat. Nos. 
43840 and 153727), cast from the hand, and used in 
killing large seals, walrus, and white wdiales. They 
have stout wooden shafts, from 4 to 7 feet long, with 
a hand rest near the center made of bone or ivor\', 
neatly titted on and, held in place by a lashing of 
baleen, rawhide, or sinew cord. The foreshaft is of 
bone and ivorv, neatly fashioned, fitted to the end 
of the shaft by a tenon and socket, and held firmly 
bj' a seizing of baleen. The foreshaft is pierced 
near its base for the line which holds all the parts 
together, and has a socket on top for the loose shaft. At the butt end of 



290 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



the shaft is a bone pick, attached by a w edge-shaped joint, the bone fitting 
into a kerf in the wood. The upper part of the pick is bored through 
for the assembling line. Around the joint is a lashing of baleen, 
neatly laid on, the assembling line being neatly interlaced with the 
wrapping. Especial attention is called to the fastening off and the 
knots on the shaft. The foreshafts of the large Bering Sea harpoons 
belong to the two quite distinct forms, the spindle-shaped and the 
conoidal. On the left side of Plate 10 is shown the form and mount- 
ing of a spindle-shaped loose shaft, and on the right side that of a 
conoidal form. In this example the projection is on the loose shaft 
and the socket in the foreshaft. In both forms a hole has been bored 
through the loose shaft for the assembling line. In these harpoons 
the heads belong to Murdoch's later type; that is, the blade and line 
hole are in the same plane, at right angles to the 
longest diameter of the cross section of the tog- 
gle head. The blades of these harpoons are of 
slate, iron, brass, and, in a few specimens, of 
jade-like material. The toggle head is attached 
to the main line by means of what Murdoch calls 
the leader, which is a stout rawhide thong, 1 to 2 
feet long, passed through the line hole, the two 
ends being overlapped and seized together; near 
the head a few turns of fine thong or sinew twine 
hold the two sides of the loop together, forming 
a becket. At the other end the leader is spliced 
into a becket on the end of the line. The line, 
when the head is ready for action is "done up" 
on the shaft, the far end being securely tied. 
When the game is struck, the head is withdrawn, 
the loose shaft unstripped, the line unrolls, and 
the shaft acts as a drag. 

An artistic little toggle head of bone and iron 
from Cape Nome (Cat. No. 4tW:84, U.S.N.M.), on the northern shore of 
Norton Sound, is shown in fig. 85. Body is somewhat pyramidal, the 
upper and lower surface being elegantly fluted and ridged. The blade 
is deltoid, with square butt and slightly convex margins, set deeply into 
the tapering point of the body in the plane of the line hole and fastened 
with a bone rivet. The line hole passes straight through the body of 
the toggle head, the ends being flanked by triangular line grooves. 
Barbs, two cocked up and flared outward and bounded bj" the orna- 
mental ridges, which closely follow the outlines of the back and termi- 
nate gracefully in the tips of the barbs. Butt end a curved plane, 
upright below and tapering above. 

A cast-iron toggle head (Cat. No. 44747, U.S.N.M.), from Sledge 
Island, Alaska, just south of Bering Strait, all in one piece — exactly 




Fig. 85. 

TOGGLE HEAD. 

Cape Nome, Alaska. 

Collected by E. W. Nelson. Cat. 

No. iUM, U.S.N.M. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Mason. 



Plate 10. 









Larger Bering Sea Harpoon. 

Collected by E. W. Nelson. 
Cat. Nos. 43346 and 153727, U.S.N.M, 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



291 



similar to the little seal harpoon heads of ivory — blade of iron, and 
bifurcated l)arbs, is shown in fig. 86. 

Collected by E. AV. Nelson. This is the last word in the inventional 
histor}' of the toggle harpoon head. From this point it enters the 
world-embracing commerce, being cast in metal and 
sold to island peoples all about the Pacific Ocean. It 
has no voice in settling the question how far similarities 
in aboriginal arts argue for contact or sameness of mind 
and its environments. 

Specimens Nos. 45429 and 45430, in thelJ. S. National 
Museum, are barbed harpoons from Cape Nome, the 
northwestern corner of Norton Sound, Alaska. These 
are similar to the Sledge Island specimens without 
feathers, one of them having the assembling line of 
sinew thread and the other of rawhide. 

The measurements of No. 45420 are: Shaft, 45^ 
inches; foreshaft, 4 inches; point. 3 inches. Measure- 
ments of No. 4.5430 are: Shaft, 4H inches; foreshaft. 
4 inches; point, 2f inches. 

A bone toggle head (Cat. No. 46154, U.S.N.M.) of 
medium size, from Port Clarence, just 
south of Bering Strait, Alaska, is shown 
in fig. ST. Body conoidal in form, ellipti- 
cal in section, and higher than broad. 
Blade of iron, deltoid in form, set deeply 
in the slit and riveted Avith bone or wood. 
Line hole straight through, wider behind 
and run out into well-defined line grooves. Barbs two, 
formed by the bifurcation of the back, 1)eing ang;ular, 
cocked up, and flared out. Socket for the f oi"eshaf t shal- 
low and having a sharp edge on the butt, which is a single 
curved surface, nearly perpendicular below, quite elon- 
gated above the socket. Length, 3| inches. Collected 
by Dr. T. H. Bean. Of similar character to No. 46154 are 
many other pieces in the Museum. In fact, when the shape 
arrives at a certain stage beyond the inventor, it seems to 
turn into the highroad of mechanical monotonies. 

Plate 11. Catalogue No. 48156 in the U. S. National ]Mu- 

seum, is a barbed seal harpoon projected from a throwing 

stick, from Sledge Island, on the northwestern shore of 

Norton Sound, collected by E. AV. Nelson. The shaft 

is of light pine wood, tapering gentl}" from tip to butt 

and slightl}' flattened in cross section. The tip end is socketed for 

the reception of the tang of the foreshaft. The peculiarity of four 

specimens from this locality is that the socket is split very little on the 



Fig. 80. 

IRON TOGGLE HEAD. 

Sledge Island. 
Collected byE. W. Nel- 
son. Cat. No. 44747. 
U.S.N.M 



Fig. 87. 

TOGGLE HE.\D. 

Port Clarence. 

Alaska. 
Collected by T. H. 

Bean. Cat. No. 

461.it. V.S.N.M. 



292 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

outside, to allow for shrinkage in hafting. The foreshaft, as in most 
other specimens, is of whale's bone and cylindrical. The shank for fas- 
tening to the shaft is shouldered and notched for the attachment of the 
assembling line. No feathers; but on another specimen, No. 48153, 
three half feathers, with plume inside, attached to their ends, as in 
example No. 129585, from Cape Blossom. The point is of bone, flat 
on one side and rounded on the other. Barbs, three on one margin 
and two on the other. The shank of the point is flat. The line is of 
dark seal rawhide, attached by one end through the line hole of the 
point b}' means of two double splices an inch apart. It is split near 
the middle, the two ends being fastened to the shaft about 18 inches 
apart by means of a clove hitch. 

The front assembling line is looped around the shank of the fore- 
shaft b}^ a clove hitch wrapped around the end of the shaft to prevent 
slipping, and is continued to the upper attachment of the martingale. 
Between its two knots the martingale acts as an assembling line. 
From the hindmost knot of the martingale an assembling line of 
sinew thread proceeds backward for 1 inches, where a dozen turns are 
made and the end is punched into the wood near the end of the shaft. 
Between the two knots of the martingale the shaft has been mended 
by a series of half hitches and clove hitches made in sinew thread. 

In specimen No. 48154, from the same locality, the upper assembling 
line is in fine seal rawhide. Length of shaft, 46 inches; foreshaft, 4 
inches; point, 3 inches. 

Specimen No. 48365 in the IT. S. National Museum is a barbed har- 
poon for throwing stick, from Nunivak Island, south of Yukon mouth. 
The shaft is of soft wood, nearly uniform in thickness throughout, 
truncated and wedge-shaped at the upper extremitj' to fit into a corre- 
sponding cut in the foreshaft. Especial attention might be called to 
the expansion of the small end of the wedge to correspond with depres- 
sions in the shouldering on the parts of the foreshaft which overlap 
the wedge, in order to prevent the joint from coming apart. This is a 
step toward a dovetail. 

The foreshaft is of walrus ivory, slightl}' expanded in front and 
conoid on the top. The tang has a wedge-shaped saw cut to tit on the 
end of the shaft. The two flanges are shouldered Avhere they join the 
bod}'^ of the foreshaft, and have notches cut on them at the outer 
extremity for the lashing. This is driven on the end of the shaft and 
the two are seized together b}^ means of sinew braid laid on neatly. 
A small plug of wood is inserted in the outer end of the foreshaft, 
having a conical socket for the butt end of the barb. 

At the base of the shaft there are two sets of black feathers, one 
above the other. Each feather is whole, its inner end seized to the 
shaft by means of the assembling line, which is wrapped several times 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Mason. 



Plate 11, 




Barbed Harpoon for throwing Stick, Sledge Island. 

Collected by E. W. Nelson. 
Cat. No. 48156, U.S.N.M. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 293 

around. The top ends of the feathers are firmly driven into holes in 
the wood. 

The head is of ivory, flat on one face and angular on the other. The 
shank is nearly conical, titting into the socket of the foreshaft. Line 
hole elongated. Barl)s, three on one margin and two on the other. 

The line or martingale of the harpoon is of rawhide; the undivided 
end is passed through the line hole of the head and tied in a howline 
knot. The two ends of the martingale are attached to the shaft near 
the feather and near the foreshaft by clove hitches. The sinew braid 
by means of which the shaft and foreshaft are seized together is con- 
tinued on toward the feathers, with here and there a half hitch, until 
it reaches the rear feathers, where it forms the seizing, and then passes 
backward to become the seizing of the front set of feathers, and it is 
fastened on b}' being punched into the wood in a similar way to the 
top end of the feathers. 

Among the Eskimo tools there is a little ivory point belonging to 
the outfit of the bow-and-arrow maker, used especially for making 
holes in soft wood, into which the ends of feathers and lines are 
punched to form a smooth fastening. It seems to be very effective. 
Length of shaft, 3 feet 7 inches; length of foreshaft and shank, 
7f inches; length of point, 3 inches. Collected by E. W. Nelson. 

A sea-otter harpoon dart Pishudak, (Cat. No. 72415, U.S.N. M.), 
from Bristol Ba}', Alaska, is shown in Plate 12. In its composi- 
tion it resembles a large number of specimens used in an important 
industry. It w^ill be described, therefore, in detail. The head is of 
ivory, flat on one side and angular in section on the other. There are 
three barbs, two on the left margin, one on the right; the line hole is 
oblong. The tang fitting into a socket at the end of the foreshaft is a 
little cone, shouldered above. The line is of braided sinew, fastened 
into the line hole of the barbed head by a bend and knot. The other 
end in this and kindred specimens has not the martingale, but is tied 
to the shaft near the middle of the bladder. When the animal is 
.struck, the barbed head pulls out from the foreshaft, the line unrolls 
from the shaft, the bone head drops, and the bladder rises. The appa- 
ratus acts then both as a drag and a signal. The foreshaft, of bone, is 
bill-shaped, cut ofl' square at the base, excepting a slight tenon in form 
of a cylinder to fit into a socket at the front end of the shaft. In the 
front end of the foreshaft a cvlinder of pine wood is set, and this must 
be noted on all barbed harpoons. The purpose is to give the tang of 
the head a firmer hold when the weapon is read}' for. action. The 
,shaft of this and other like specimens is of wood, tapering just slightly 
from front to rear. The socket for the tenon of the foreshaft is care- 
fully bored, and wrapped with sinew braid. The same braid is con- 
tinued down the shaft for assembling line, and serves also for attach- 
ing the float, which in all small harpoons of this class is made from 



294 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

bladders, stomachs, or intestines of seal or walrus. They are cleaned 
out, one end fastened up securely, and into the other a mouthpiece 
with plug- is set for purpose of inflation. The subject is discussed by 
Nelson.^ In the example shown the process of inserting a stud or plug- 
into the float where it has been pierced is illustrated. Length of shaft, 
44 inches; length of foreshaft, 3^ inches; length of barb, 4i inches. 
Specimen No. 11356 is quite similar. Length of shaft, 46i inches; 
length of foreshaft, 3 inches. 

Examples No. 8004 to 8007 in the U. S. National Museum are feath- 
ered harpoon darts from Bristol Bay. The shaft is very little expanded 
in front and slightly expanded at the nock. There are three half feathers 
neatly trimmed and bound on in front by the assembling line which is 
also used to seize the foreshaft, wrapped around the shaft and ends at 
the feathers. The feathers are seized at the nock with a strip of split 
quill and are further held in place by a thread which holds the mid- 
rib of the feather to the shaft of the dart at flv^e places. The feather 
seizing at the nock is noticeable in all of these specimens and separates 
them from the others in the collection. 

The foreshaft, of ivory, is conical, smaller at the butt end, where it 
is inserted into the shaft by means of a shoulder plug which is driven 
into the socket at the end of the shaft. The front end of the foreshaft 
is abruptly conical and finished oil with -a wooden plug which has a 
pit or socket for the barbed point. The point is of bone and has two 
barbs on one side and one on the other. Length of shaft, 44i inches; 
of foreshaft, 5^ inches; of point, 3 inches. Collected by Dr. T, T. 
Minor. Similar to these are Nos. 19378 and 19380, collected by the 
Rev. James Curley, having in all respects the same characteristics, 
excepting that the seizing at the nock is not of quill, but a continua- 
tion of the thread which holds the shaft of the feather to the shaft of 
the spear. 

Plate 13 (Cat. No. 90416, U.S.N.M.) is a sea-otter spear from Ugashik, 
Bristol Bay, Alaska. The shaft is of wood, tapering from the fore end 
to the rear end. The head is of bone and has two barbs on one margin 
and one on the other. The line hole is small and has no line grooves. 
The tang is whittled ofi' thin to fit into a delicate socket on the end of 
the shaft. The leader or loop on the barbed head is a narrow strip of 
sealskin doubled through the line hole and seized together. The ends 
are also united in such a way that the loop is closed in the middle. At 
the other end the thong is doubled, passed through an e3^elet, over the 
projecting point to form a " detacher." On the shaft at five places are 
bands of birch bark and around these are wrapped sinew twine in half 
hitches for the purpose of retrieving the parts of the shaft if it should 
be broken. The bladder is a portion of the intestine of a seal, having- 

* The Eskimo about Bering Strait, 1899, pp. 40 to 145. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Mason. 



Plate 12. 




Sea Otter Harpoon, Bristol Bay, Alaska. 

Collectefl by C. L. McKay. 
Cat. Xo. 72415, U.S.X.M. 



I 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 295 

a delicate mouthpiece of ivoiy, neatly set on to the side of the shaft 
bv wrappings of sinew thread passed through two holes bored in its 
upper portion. The other end of the bladder is bound to the rawhide 
thong, which is secured by being pushed under the wrapping of sinew 
thread between it and the birch-bark packing. The line is of rawhide 
and is securely fastened to the '"detacher" at one end by a bend, which 
is held in place by a figure-of-8 wrapping of sinew thread. The rest 
of the line is wound about the shaft when the spear is ready for 
action, the other end being attached to the shaft between the two ends 
of the bladder. When the animal is struck, the head unships, the line 
unrolls, the head of the shaft drops into the water and the whole acts 
as a drag and a signal to show the position of the game. 

Examples Nos. 90417 to 90419 in the U. S. National Museum are 
feathered sea-otter harpoon darts from Ugashik, north of the Alaskan 
peninsula. The shaft is of light pine wood, very nearly cylindrical, 
and tapering slightly toward the front. The foreshaft is of bone and 
has a plug on the inner or butt end which tits into a socket on the end 
of the shaft, and the joint is seized by a fine sinew or intestine braid, 
the inner end of which is continued backward with half hitches for an 
assembling line. Near the feather a band of this braid an inch in 
width is formed, and 4 inches above the feather is another one around 
the inner end to the feathers. There are three feathers, seized in front 
by the assembling line, and at the nock by a separate wrapping of 
braid. They are split and further held down by a light thread, which 
binds the shaft of them to the shaft of the dart in five places by half 
hitches. 

This method of attaching the feathers is found in Nos. 8004 to 8006 
and seems to be typical of the region. 

The line or martingale is attached to the shaft 4 inches behind the 
foreshaft and 4 inches in front of the feather. The point is small and 
has three barbs on one side, and is attached to the line hj means of a 
hole bored in the shank and fitted into the foreshaft by a tang w^hich 
is nearly cylindrical. Length of shaft, 4 feet; of foreshaft, 5i inches; 
of point. If inches. Collected by William J. Fisher. 

The darts are called Nagik kujat; the bone foreshaft, Mamkuk; the 
line, Punak; the bone head, Kugichalugak; the feathers, Nakchute. 

A complete toggle harpoon (Cat. No. 160337, U.S.N. M.), with line 
float and line board, from Kusilvak, at the mouth of the Yukon River, 
in Alaska, is shown in Plates 14 to 15. The toggle head shown in Plate 
15 is of ivory, a delicate object, perfect in all its details. In outline 
it resembles the head of a duck. The blade is set into the saw-cut at 
the point of the body, and in the plane of the line hole, which is bored 
straight through from margin to margin. The barb is cut into three 
points, which form a part of the ornamentation. Through the line 
hole passes a long loop, which is neatly spliced at its ends and wrapped 
NAT MUS 1900 21 



296 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

and knotted so as to keep it in shape. At its other extremity it unites 
with the end of a long rawhide line, which in turn is looped at its 
other end to a becket or loop of sealskin float, and frequents an addi- 
tional line is spliced between the two. This line rests upon a flat 
board frame, which is thus described.^ 

The float board consists of a strong, oval hoop of spruce made in two U-shaped 
pieces, with the ends brought together and beveled to form a neatly-fitting joint, 
which is wrapped firmly wath a lashing of spruce root; the sides have holes by M-hich 
a thin board is fastened to the under side, the ends of which are notched in front to 
form a coarsely serrated pattern wdth five points that are inserted in slots cut in the 
front of the hoop. The front of the board is oval, and the sides taper gradually to 
the points of two projecting arms, which extend 4 or 5 inches below the bow; between 
these arms a deep slot is cut, with the inner border rounded. The board has a round 
hole in the center and a crescentic hole on each side (Plate LIV, fig. 10). 

On the kaiak the float board is placed in front of the hunter with the arm-like 
points thrust beneath the cross lashing to hold it in position, and upon it lies the coil 
of float line with the spear attached and resting on the spear guards on the right rail 
of the boat; the end of the line is passed back under the hunter's right arm to the 
float, which, fully inflated, rests on the deck just l)ack of the manhole. 

When the spear is thrown, the coil runs off rapidly and the float is thrown over- 
board. In some cases, w^hen the prey is vigorous and leads a long pursuit, another 
line, like that shown in figure 9, Plate LIY, is made fast through the semilunar ori- 
fices in the center of the float board, which latter, when drawn through the water by 
means of this cord, assumes a position nearly at a right angle to the course of the 
animal and forms a heavy drag to impede its progress. 

When hunting on the ice, the float board, with the line coiled upon it, is carried 
in the left hand of the hunter and the spear in the right hand while he watches 
along the borders of the leads or holes for the appearance of the seals. When he 
succeeds in striking one, he holds firmly to the line mitil the animal is exhausted, 
or, if necessary, the float board attached to the line is cast into the water, while the 
hunter hurries to his kaiak and embarks in pursuit. 

In plate 15 will be shown the method of uniting the toggle head with the loose 
shaft, this with the fore shaft, and the fore shaft with the shaft. This last joint is 
worthy of study, with its curious tenon and shoulder fitting into a socket at the end 
of the shaft. Especial attention is called to the manner m which the shaft is cut 
away a short distance on the outside to allow the lashing of sinew to draw the joint 
perfectly tight. Attention is also called to the method of fitting the splicmg, at which 
the Eskimo are quite adept. On the surface of the fore shaft the dot and ring orna- 
ments occur. This decoration, wherever found, is an emblem of the existence of steel 
tools. Very little ornament exists on the old Eskimo weapons found in localities 
away from contact. 

The head of a toggle harpoon (Cat. No. 168625, U. S. N.M) from Bristol 
Bay, collected by William J. Fisher, is shown in fig. 88. The head is of 
bone, back sharp edged, front rounded, and the whole a flattened wedge 
shape at right angles to the line hole. The blade, of slate, is triangu- 
lar, with convex sides, and glued into a saw cut in the end of the head. 
This socket for the loose shaft is square in section and shallow. The 
butt end of the body is beveled as in most harpoons of this class, but 
in such manner as to form an offset on the margin of the socket, and 

^ Nelson, The Eskimo about Bering Strait, 1899, p. 138. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Mason. 



\\\A 




Plate 13. 



^\\' 



Long-handled Barbed Harpoon, Bristol Bay, Alaska. 

Collected by William J. Fischer. 

Cat. No. 90416, U.S.N.M. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



297 



the single barb is formed by the meetino- of the sharp back with the 

two edges of this bevel. The line hole passes straight 

through the body and is flanked by shallow wide grooves. 

The loose shaft is a piece of pine wood flattened and 

wedge-shaped at its butt end to tit into a wide socket at 

the end of the foreshaft, shouldered about 2 inches from 

this end and then tapering to the point of juncture with 

the body of the toggle head. The loose shaft passes 

into the shallow socket of the head, where it is hinged. 

A rawhide thong is passed through the line hole and 

tightly seized on either side of the loose shaft 8 inches 

below its outer end. This forms a hinge, so that when 

the body of the toggle head is drawn down the point of 

the loose shaft comes out of the socket, and the parts 

are held together b}- the wrapping or seizing. The two 

are further secured together by a grommet of spruce 

root. When in rest the wedge-shaped butt end of the 

loose shaft passes between the two sides of the rawhide 

line, and in unhinging from the toggle head this part 

also flies out in an opi^osite direction. At the end of the 

rawhide line is a loop for the attachment of a longer line. 

This old example is very interesting indeed, forming 
a connecting link between the Eskimo toggle head and 
the forms allied to it among the Indian tribes farther 
south. Length of head and blade, 6i inches; loose 
shaft, 9i inches. 

Plates 16 and 17 (Cat. Nos. 16-1:07, 193S2, and 72412, 
U.S.N.M.) show the forms of harpoon arrows in use on 
the north and the south side of the Alaskan peninsula. 
The last mentioned, No. 6 on the plate, from Bristol Bay, ll I ' 
is farthest removed from the arrow and nearest the har- 
poon with its club-shaped head and bilateral barbs. The 
line hole in the barbed head, the line running from head 
to shaft, the socket for the head, the joint between head 
and shaft, are all suggestive of the small seal harpoon. 
No. 5 on the plate, from Cook Inlet, in its head approaches 
very near to the simplicity of the Fuegian barbed har- 
poon. The half feathers set on radially are more Indian 
than Eskimo. Fig. 4 on Plate 16 is the delicate sea-otter 
arrow from Kadiak, the paragon of aboriginal pro- 
jectiles. The specimen is fuUv illustrated on Plate 17. 

This is the most elaborate and ingenious arrow known, 
and all of its parts, in every specimen, are most 
delicately flnished. Such a weapon may well have been 
used in hunting the most costly of fur-bearing animals — the otter. 



if 



Fig. 88. 

TOGGLE HARPOON 
HEAD. 

Bristol Bay. 

Collected by Wni. J. 
Fisher. Cat. No. 
168f.35, U.S.N.M. 



298 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

The shaft is of spruce, gently tapering toward the neck, which is 
large and bell shaped. Into the end of the shaft is inserted a f oreshaf t 
of bone, and into the end of this fits the barb. Feathers, three, sym- 
metrically trimmed and seized at both ends with delicately twisted 
sinew thread. The barbed head is perforated, and through these per- 
forations is attached a braided line at least 10 feet long. The other 
end of the shaft is secured to two points on the shaft by a martingale. 
When not in use the line is coiled neatly on the shaft and the barb is 
put in place in the f oreshaf t. When the arrow is shot, the barb enters 
the tiesh of the otter, the loose fastening is undone, the line unrolled, 
the f oreshaf t drops into the water; the shaft acts as a drag and the 
feathers as a buoy to aid the hunter in tracing the animal. (See Plate 
Lii, fig. 4.) ■ 

Fig. 1. Arrow with line unrolled, showing relation of parts. 

Fig. 2. The shaftment. Attention is drawn to the delicate seizing 
with sinew thread, the natty trimming of the feather, the most effi- 
cient nock. 

Fig. 3. The lines and knots. Notice is given of the elegance of the 
braid, the efficient manner of "doing up" the line, the peculiar knot 
for the martingale. 

Fig. 4. The arrow ready to be shot. 

This form of arrow, with its southern type of sinew-backed bow, is 
found also on the Kuriles, where they were taken by Aleuts, carried 
over by the Russians to hunt sea otter. 

The arrows numbered 1, 2, and 3 in Plate 16 are from the same 
areas as the harpoon arrows just described, namely, from Bristol Bay 
to Kadiak. The heads are essentially those of harpoons, and are set 
into the ends of the shafts in the loosest manner by a slight conical 
projection fitting into a socket. When the animal is struck the head 
withdraws itself and remains in the wound. A short piece of string 
between head and shaft would convert these three missiles into har- 
poon arrows. To make the likeness more complete. No. 3 has a 
wooden cap over the blade. 

Cat. No. 72518 in the U. S. National Musevim is a sea-otter harpoon 
dart or Pishudak from Chernoborn Island, Cook Inlet. The l)ladder, 
shaft, assembling line, foreshaft, martingale, and barb are similar to 
the others in all respects excepting the attachment of the foreshaft to 
the shaft. A projection from the butt of the ivor}^ foreshaft forms a 
wedge which tapers in two directions. In fact, the foreshaft is dove- 
tailed into the end of the shaft and seized with a sinew braid or sennit, 
which acts as the assembling line. See Plate 16 for details of Cat. 
No. 19382, a harpoon arrow from the same locality. Length of shaft, 
45i inches; of foreshaft, 3 inches; of point, 5 inches. Collected by 
William J. Fisher. 

Plate lb, Cat. No. 175825 in the U. S. National Museum, is a sea- 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Mason. 



Plate 14. 




Toggle Harpoon, Line, and Float, Kusilvak, Yukon River. 
Collected by E. W. Nelson. 
Cat. No. 160337, U.S.N.M. 



Report of U S- National Museum, 1900.— Mason. 



Plate 1 5. 



^ 




Detail of Kusilvak Harpoon in Plate 14. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 299 

otter dart from Unalaska. The shaft is of spruce wood; it is light and 
delicately made, not quite cylindrical, but becoming thicker toward 
the front. The foreshaft is of whale's bone, thicker where it joins the 
shaft, tapering smaller towards the front, and expanding at the tip 
end; flattened a little in cross section. A plug of wood is inserted in 
the socket at the tip end. The point of ivory has two barbs on one 
side and one on the other, and an extension or knol) at the butt end, 
around which the line is fastened by a marlin hitch. The line is of 
sinew braid or sennit three-ply in the open parts, and six-ply between 
the martingale and the point. The martingale is tied, one end around 
the foreshaft and the other a little back of the middle of the shaft, by 
a clove hitch. 

The shaft has in front a wedge with square front and shouldered in 
the rear. This wedge fits exactly into a slot in the butt end of the 
foreshaft. A small piece of birch bark is wrapped around the joint 
for packing and all the parts seized together very neatly with the 
finest sinew thread. 

In this example, as in all others of its class, the shaft is painted 
red; on some of them the paint extends to the foreshaft. On a few 
examples bands of black paint are added at the butt end. Length of 
shaft, 42 inches; of foreshaft, Yi inches; of point, 2i inches. 

Feathers on the shaftment or butt end of the shaft, three, set on 
radially. The nock of this specimen is not unlike the foreshaft in 
form, only, in place of the notch to fit the bow string, there is a flat 
cone on the tip end with a small pit on the end to catch into the ivory 
hook on the foreshaft. By comparing this specimeji with the harpoon 
arrows in Plates 16 and 17 the student has the best possible oppor- 
tunity^ of seeing the close kinship between the harpoon and the arrow. 
It is entirely a matter of propulsion, whether from the hand, from a 
bow, or from an atlatl or throwing stick. 

Plate 19 (Cat. No. 11362, U.S.N.M.) represents a barbed harpoon 
with bladder and hand rest. From Kadiak, and collected by Vincent 
Colyer. 

The shaft is of pine wood, tapering gi^adually from the point to 
the butt. At the front end the shaft is widened out into a cylin- 
drical form for about 2 inches and notched in like a spool. Thei'e is 
no foreshaft in this specimen. The socket for the point is lenticular 
in cross section and the spool-shaped space is filled with a wrapping 
of fine sinew braid. The shaft is ornamented with rings and longi- 
tudinal stripes in black, and the space between the two attachments of 
the martingale is painted solid black. 

The point is of walrus ivory or hard bone, delicately made. There 
are two barbs on one side near the butt, which at a side view 
resemble the hoof of an animal. At the inner margin of one of these, 
three little dots and lines are added by way of ornament. On the 



300 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

other side is a small barb or hook, which could scarcely be of any 
use. The tang is not tapered or shouldered, but is quite wide. 
The line hole is round, and into it is set a thong of rawhide, doubled 
and joined together at its ends and likewise near the barb by a lashing 
of sinew thread. Just above the point, where the two ends of the 
thong are bound together with sinew thread, a braided cord of sinew 
passes between the two ends of the thong and is made fast by a half 
hitch, a knot being tied in the end of the braid to prevent its coming 
undone. The braid constitutes the line of the harpoon. A few feet 
from the point, where the braid is attached to the rawhide leader of 
the barbed head, it is separated into two smaller braids, and these 
become the branches of the martingale, the ends of which are attached, 
one under the bridle, the other 3 feet from the front end of the shaft. 
The hand rest is a short piece of the black horn of the mountain goat. 
Its base fits on the shaft. Through a hole in this horn a lashing of 
sinew thread passes around the shaft several times. The bladder has 
at one end a delicate mouthpiece of ivory set against the shaft, held in 
place b}" sinew thread passing through perforations in the mouthpiece. 
At the other end the bladder is attached to the shaft by means of a 
rawhide thong tied a few inches awa3^ At five different places on the 
shaft, namely, the two points of attachment for the martingale, the 
place of the hand rest, and the two points of attachment for the blad- 
der, are l)ands of white birch bark, which serve both for ornament and 
as a soft packing to hold the different lashings in place. The manner 
in which the line is done up on the shaft when the harpoon is ready 
for action, by means of a loose knot, which is easily untied, is shown. 
In ever}^ respect this is a well-made and graceful implement. Length 
of shaft, 8 feet 5 inches; point, 8 inches. 

The Samoyed harpoon, on the testimon}^ of Nordenskiold, consists 
of a large and strong iron head, very sharp on the outer edge and pro- 
vided with a barb. The head is loosely fixed to the shaft, but securely 
fastened to the end of a slender line 10 fathoms long, generally made 
of walrus hide. The line is fastened at its other end to the boat, in 
the fore part of which it lies in a carefully arranged coil. There are 
from five to ten such harpoon lines in every hunting boat. When 
the hunters see a herd of walrus, either on a piece of drift ice or in the 
water, they endeavor, silently and against the wind, to approach suffi- 
ciently near to one of the animals to be able to harpoon it. If this 
succeeds, the walrus first dives and then endeavors to swim under water 
all he can. But he is fixed with the line to the boat and must draw it 
along. His comrades swim toward the boat, curious to ascertain the 
cause of the alarm. A new walrus is transfixed with another harpoon, 
and so it goes on until, one after another, all the harpoons are in use. 
The boat is now drawn forward at a whizzing speed, although the row 
ers hold back with the oars; but there is no actual danger so long as 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900— Mason. 



Plate 16 







Barbed Sea Otter Harpoon Arrows, Alaskan Peninsula. 

Collected by W. H. Dall, James Curley, and Charles L. MfKay. 

Cat. Xos. 10407. 193»2, 7'2412, L'.S N.M. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Mason. 



Plate 17. 







'; 



Detail of Sea Otter Harpoon Arrow Alaskan Peninsula. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 



301 




all the animals draw in the same direction. If one of them seeks to 
take a different oonrse from that of his comrades in misfortune his 
line nmst be cut off, otherwise the boat capsizes. When 
the walruses get exhausted b}- their exertions and by loss 
of blood, the hunters begin to haul in the lines. One 
animal after another is drawn to the stem of the boat, 
and there they commonly first get a blow on the head 
with the flat of a lance, and when they turn to guard 
against it a lance is thrust into the heart. ^ AVhateyer 
view one takes regarding the blood kinship between 
the peoples of northeastern Asia 
and those of North America, or 
between the languages of the 
two areas, the kinship of inven- 
tions is not to be denied. How 
far a device may travel or be 
transmitted without changing so 
nuich as one word in any lan- 
guage or one drop of ])lood is not 
known. A whale has been known 
to carry a harpoon head halfway 
around the world and deliver it 
safely to a company of natives on 
the other side: and a throwing 
stick, with which hai*poons are 
hurled, drifted from Bering 
Strait to western Greenland. 

The harpoon has been briefl}' 
traced throughout the Western 
Hemisphere. It remains to no- 
tice one or two forms in which 
the sailor and the blacksmith 
have supplanted almost entireh' 
the aboriginal mechanic. Boas 
figures an iron toggle head (1888. 
p.-IT3) now in the Berlin Museum 
of Ethnology. It is of iron, pre- 
serves the general shape of the native barbed 
and toggle head, the blade, spurs, and line hole 
being in parallel planes. The natives, according 
to Boas, also file these heads out of bits of iron. 
The end of the line is bent, run through the line 
hole, and fastened down by a compound splice (fig. 89). The fact has 
been already mentioned that toggle heads of bone were made wholesale 



Fig. 90. 
IRON" TOGGLE HEAD. 

Amur River. 
After von Schrenk. 



Fig. 89. 

MODERN HARPOON' 

HEAD OF IRON'. 

Cumberland Sonivl. 

In Berlin Museum fiir 
Volkerkunde. :>fter 
Franz Bo.as. 



' A. E. Nordenskiold, Voyage of the Vega, I, 1881, p. 156. 
NAT MUS 1900 22 



302 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



in former times, and traded to the Eskimo for valuable furs. In the 
National Museum there is amoni>- the Nelson collection a small toggle 

head of cast iron all in one piece, fig. 86, 
the model of which was a native example 
of ivory and iron. 

Fig. 90 is taken from Schrenk/ and shows 
the same invasion of iron into np^tive arts. 
The object is a combined barbed and toggle 
head, in which, however, the barbs pla}^ the 
chief part. The leader, of rawhide, pre- 
serves its ancient bends and knots, and the 
eyes peeping from the foreshaft are cer- 
tainly survivals of the ancient regime. 

A harpoon (Cat. No. 19518, U.S.N.M.) 
from Cumberland Sound, collected by 
George Y. Nickerson, is shown in fig. 91. 
It is an interesting mixture of ancient forms 
with modern. The shaft is a well-turned,. 

spindle-shaped piece of oak Avood. The 

hand rest is an old ivory piece, turned ta, 

right angles, set 

into the shaft for a 

short distance, and 

bound on with two 

seizings of sinew 

braid. Just below 

the hand rest is an 

iron loop through 

which theline runs. 

The foreshaft is a 

long bar of iron, 

set into the head 

of the shaft and 

packed, the joint 

being made fast by 

means of an iron 

ferrule. Near the 

inner end of the 

shaft is a padding 
of rawhide, connected a few inches awa}^ with 
the end of the shaft by a stifl' rawhide sprig. 
The object of this ball is not known, but it may have acted as a buffer 
for catching the blow. The ice pick at the butt end of the shaft is also 




Fig. 91. 

.SHAFT OF TOGGLE HAKI'OOX. 

Cumberland Sound. 

Collected by Geo. Y. NiPkerson. Cat. No. 
19.'jl8. U.S.N.M. 




Fig. 92. 
BONE FOKESHAFT OP HARPOOK. 

Bristol Bay. 

Collected by Charles McKay. Cat. 

No. 72403, U.S.N.M. 



' Plate 42, fig. 2. 



I 



If 



i't 



Report of U. S. National, Museum, 1900.— Mason. 



Plate 18. 




/ 





w 




Barbed Harpoon Dart for throwing Stick, Unalaska. 
Collected by United States Fish Commi.ssion. 
Cat. No. 175825, U.S.N.M. 



ABORIGINAL AMERICAN HARPOONS. 303 

of iron. It is impossible to conceive of a more excellent illustration 
of the fading- out of an ancient primitive form and the crradual intro- 
duction of new elements. 

The bone foreshaft (Cat. No. 72403, U.S.N.M.) of a large whaling or 
walrus harpoon from Bristol Bay is shown in lig. [)-2. It is the last 
expression in the use of modern tools for the preparation of a very 
ancient device. If this be compared with the gash in the end of the 
Fuegian harpoon, it will be seen that great progress has been made 
at this particular point. The upper part is carefully turned and the 
lower part cut with a tenon, so formed that when placed at the end 
of the shaft the strain in every direction is provided for. Collected 
by Charles L. M. :^IcKay. 

CONCLUSION. 

The harpoon is the most complicated of the devices invented by 
uncivilized peoples. In a hemisphere capable of awakening every 
kind of human wants and needs, furnishing an infinite variety of sup- 
plies to these from place to place, providing* one sort of materials for 
the harpoon here and quite another sort there, inhabited by native 
tribes endowed with great range of genius, it would be expected that 
a universal weapon should take on eveiy possible form. Just as the 
whale ship of yesterday, its friend and contemporary, has been replaced 
by the ship driven by steam, so the Eskimo ut present kills the seal, 
the walrus, the whale, and the arctic land mammals with a rifle and 
explosive cartridges instead of the ancient harpoon. Should the 
Eskimo use his great weapon at all, it will be, as Murdoch shows, to 
retrieve his game on the edge of the ice after it is shot, and not as a 
killing device. 

Both the ship and the harpoon served benevolent purposes, since 
they fostered and stimulated ingenuity until the fullness of time for 
steamships and firearms arrived. The harpoon is the climax of pierc- 
ing inventions, which include daggers, lances, spears, javelins, and 
arrows of all kinds — held in the hand, hurled from the hand, either 
unaided or with the help of hand rest, amentum or atlatl, or shot from 
a bow. As was noted in the preceding drawings and descriptions, the 
harpoon had no limit in its application, being equally efficient on the 
land, in the air, in the water, or through the ice, at long range or short 
range, with short or long shaft, in some examples this part a hundred 
feet in length. The simplest forms have three rude parts; the most 
highly developed a score or more. Besides its own complexity, it has 
in the arctic area dominated the kaiak in its upper part, as well as the 
dress of the man, and called forth an}' number of accessories for 
decoying, finding, watching, taking out of the water, and carrying 
home. 

When it is remembered that every part of this complex apparatus 



304 "REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

mu.st be most efficacious for its region and quarry, and not ■bulky, one 
is not astonished to find a great variety of patterns in the structure and 
in the knots on the lines. The Eskimo themselves were not all agreed 
on th(\so points. Hence, for example, Murdoch discusses the question 
"whether the l)lade of tlie toggle head shoukl be in the plane of the line 
hole or acrossit. Again, the length of the shaft and other character- 
istics Avere, in certain limits, fitted to the hunter. One has only to 
look through Nelson's plates to be convinced that there was a range 
of individual choice in many parts. While, therefore, it is correct to 
sav that all harpoons of the different types resemble one another in 
the same area, it is equally proper to add that no two harpoons are 
alike. 

Besides the lesson in the histor}' of invention which this study 
affords, other questions arise. What help do these technical speci- 
mens offer to the ethnologist and the archseologist in deciding race, 
language, migrations, and antiquity? Can it be said of a harpoon, or 
some of its parts, found without label in a collection, that it was made 
by this or that tribe, or that it came from a certain area? Or, if in a 
shell heap or village site or grave certain harpoon parts are found, 
will a comparison with the drawings ov descriptions in this paper tell 
who the makers of these relics might have been ? In the first place, 
if the technical products of peoples now living are to throw light upon 
ethnic and archieologic investigations, these products must be collected 
in large numbers and the identity of those who made and used them 
must be settled beyond controversy. With reference to precious 
material gathered after the discovery and scattered in private and 
public collections, it is safe to label them as to tribe and locality by the 
help of specimens lately acquired by scientific collectors. In this way 
the mouths of these dumb witnesses will be opened. It must not be 
forgotten, however, that unity of race is a matter of blood, of kinship; 
that unity of speech is a matter of lip and ear, and requires some close 
contact; while unity of industry is a matter of eye and hand and may 
be easily communicated from afar. 

On the question, how much of all this invention is of native growth 
and what proportion is exotic, wide differences of opinion still exist. 

To begin with, all iron and all work of iron are in a sense new, 
added, accultural; not out and out, but in varying proportion and for 
the most part merely substitutional. The iron blade takes the place 
of a stone blade only as a better stone. It is hammered and ground 
similarly. The simple tools alter shapes but little; they merely cut, 
saw, grind, and pierce l)etter than the old. But a more vigorous sub- 
stitution took place in the barter of devices between savage tribes 
widely separated, but made acquainted, first in their own commerce, 
and afterwards by the fishing and fur trading interests of the white 
settlers. 



Report of U, S. National Museum, 1900.— Mason. 



Plate 19. 




Barbed Harpoon with Float, Kadiak, Alaska. 

Collected by Vincent Collyer. 

Cat. No. 11362. U.S.N.M. 



A SKETCH OF THE HISTORY OF CEEAxMIC ART IN CHIM, 
WITH A CATALOGUE OF THE HIPPISLEY COL- 
LECTION OF CHINESE PORCELAIN'S. 



ALFRED E. HIPPISI^EY, 

Commissioner of the Imperial Maritime Customs Service of China. 



305 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



. PLATES. 

Facing page. 

1. Bowls of white K'anghsi porcelain (Nos. 27 and 46) 374 

2. Vases of K'anghsi porcelain (No. 53) and Chienlung porcelain (No. 236).. 378 

3. Vases of white K'anghsi porcelain (Nos. 81 and 60) 382 

4. Vase of K'anghsi porcelain (No. 82) 384 

5. Plates of white Ynngcheng porcelain (Nos. 117 and 118) 386 

6. Vases of white Yungcheng porcelain (Nos. 130, 125, and 129) 388 

7. Vases of white Yungcheng porcelain (Nos. 133, 128, and 124) 388 

8. Pilgrini-ljottle of white Chienlung jjorcelain ( No. 176) 390 

9. Plates of Chienlung porcelain (Nos. 191 and 192) and pencil holder (No. 221 ) . 392 

10. Vases of Chienlung porcelain (Nos. 195 and 194) 394 

11. Vase of Chienlung porcelain (No. 202) 394 

12. Vase of white porcelain (No. 206) 396 

13. Vases of white Chienlung porcelain (Nos. 220, 226, and 185) 398 

14. Vase of white Chienlung porcelain (No. 235) 398 

15. Vase of white Chienlung porcelain (No. 238) 398 

16. Vase of white Chienlung porcelain (No. 245) 400 

17. Vases of white Chienlung jwrcelain (Nos. 264 and 204) 402 

1 8. Teapot and cups of Chienlung ]iorcelain (Nos. 330-332) 406 

19. Rice bowls of Yungcheng porcelain (Nos. 329 and 328) and vase of Chien- 

lung porcelain ( No. 336) 406 

20. Pencil holder and wine cups of Ku Yiieh-hsiian ware (Nos. 327, 325 

and 326) 408 

21. Vases of white Chienlung porcelain (Nos. 333 and 334) 408 

307 



1 



A SKETCH OF THE HISTORY OF CERAMIC ART IX CHINA, 

WITH A CATALOGUE OF THE HIPFISLEY COLLECTION 

OF CHINESE PORCELAINS/ 



By Alfred E. Hippisley, 
Comviissioner of the Imperial Maritime Customs Service of China. 



For such' information as we possess regarding the history of the 
ceramic art in China, we have till recently' been chiefl}' indebted to the 
labors of the famous French sinologue. M. Stanislas Julien, who, under 
the title of L'Histoire et la Fabrication do la Porcelaine Chinoise, 
translated, and published in 1856, the History of the Manufactory of 
Chingte-chen (a small town in Kiangsi province, but for centuries the 
most important seat of the Chinese porcelain industry), a work written 
by a local magistrate in 1815 from older documents, and to the valua- 
ble letters from the same town written in 1712 and 1722 by the Jesuit 
missionary Pere d'Entrecolles, the priest in charge there, which have 
been published in the collection of Lettres editiantes et curieuses. 
Within the past three j^ears, however, very valuable additional light 
has been shed upon this subject ])y the labors of two gentlemen who are 
at once collectors and Chinese scholars, S. W. Bushell, M. D., physician 
to H. B. M. legation, Pekin, and F. Hirth, Ph. D., a member of the 
imperial maritime customs service of China. Doctor Bushell has been 
fortunate enough to secure from among the dispersed library of the 
Prince of I the manuscript of a descriptive catalogue (of which native 
experts see no reason to doubt the authenticity), with illustrations painted 
in water-color, of eighty-two celebrat(^d specimens of old porcelain seen 
in the collections of noted connoisseurs or possessed b}^ the author him- 
self, one Hsiang Yiian-p'ien (styled Tzu-ching), a native of Tsui-li, an 

^ In 1887 Mr. A. E. Hippisley, a rommissiouer of the imijerial maritime customs 
service of China, deposited in the U. 8. National Museum a large and important col- 
lection of Chinese porcelains, with the understanding that the Museum should print 
a descriptive catalogue, which it did in the Annual Report for 1887-88. The edition 
of this catalogue having long ago been exhausted, and the demand for it having 
recently increased, owing to the current interest in all matters relating to China, it 
is now republished with emendations and with the addition of a number of plates 
illusti'ating type examples from the various provinces represented. 

309 



810 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

ancient nameof Chiaho, now Chiahsing-f u, in Chehkiang province, who 
was a ccle])ratecl collector of all kinds of antiquities during the latter 
half of the sixteenth century. A translation of this work, with c:r,:!an- 
atory details by Doctor Bushell, has been published in the journal of 
the Pekin Oriental Society, under the title of Chinese Porcelain before 
the Present D3^nasty, and it is, 1 l:)elieve, to be shortly republished 
in an amplified form with reproductions of the original drawings. 
Should this bo done, the work would, in my opinion, form by far the 
most important and valuable contribution to our knowledge of this 
interesting subject. The information regarding Chinese porcelain 
which has been bequeathed to us b}^ native authors is to be found in 
their encyclopedias or in special treatises chiefly based upon the ency- 
clopedias. These are, however, coiripilations of such vast extent that 
the authors had not, nor could be expected to have, the intimate 
knowledge of an expert upon all of the very many subjects treated 
in them. Hearsay evidence or unverified rumors have thus but too 
often been allowed to crystallize into permanent record, with the result 
that it is impossible after an interval of centuries to attempt to recon- 
cile the many contradictions of statement contained in the different 
works. In this catalogue, however, are contained the reproductions 
in color of eighty-two specimens of the choicest productions of a period 
extending over upward of five centuries, from A. D. 960 to 1521, 
either possessed or seen by the artist, and scattered notes from the 
pen of one of the most noted connoisseurs of his age regarding the 
respective merits and rarity of the various kinds of ware. Existing 
realities are presented to us in place of the vague generalities and con- 
tradictory essays of the encyclopedists, and there can, I apprehend, 
be little doubt as to the comparative value of the two varieties of evi- 
dence. Doctor Hirth's contribution — Chinese Porcelani: A Study in 
Chinese Medieval Industry and Trade — is an important paper, treat- 
ing chiefly of Chinese celadon porcelain and its distribution over the 
Mohammedan world. 

EARLIEST MENTION OF PORCELAIN. 

According to the legendary records of the prehistoric period of 
Chinese chronolog}^, porcelain was already manufactured under 
Huang-ti, an emperor who is said to have entered upon a reign of 
one hundred years in B. C. 2697; and the Emperor Yu-ti-Shun, another 
monarch of the legendary period, is believed to have himself made 
porcelain before mounting the throne in B. C. 2255. Under the suc- 
ceeding dynasty of Chou, mention is made of an official director of 
pottery, and the processes of fashioning on the wheel and of mold- 
ing are distinguished; sacrificial wine jars and altar dishes, coffins, 
cooking utensils, and measures ))eing mentioned among the articles 
produced. Later Chinese writers have, however, long admitted that 



CERAMIC AET IN CHINA. 311 

the productions of that age could oidy have been of earthenware 
(poss^ibly ghized), and that no greater antiquity can be claimed for 
the manufaciture of real porcelain than the reign of the Han 
d3'nasty, which held the throne of China from B, C. 202 to 
A. D. 220, and that after this date progress in the S3^stem of man- 
ufacture was for a long period but slow. At one time, earl}^ in 
the present century, European archsologists were inclined to believe 
than an antiquity might be conceded to Chinese porcelain almost equal 
to the wildest claims of Chinese historians.^ Some small porcelain bot- 
tles, decorated with flowers and inscriptions in Chinese, having been 
))rought to Europe by ]\I. Rosellini, who stated that they had been found 
in undisturbed Egyptian tombs dating from at least ISOO B. C, it was 
concluded that the manufacture of porcelain must have existed in China 
anterior to that date. M. Julien discovered, however, that the inscrip- 
tions upon these bottles were written in the cursive character, a style 
of writing not introduced till B. C. 48; and later Mr. (afterwards 
Sir Walter) Medhurst, then an interpreter in the Hongkong govern- 
ment service, was able with Chinese aid to identify the inscriptions with 
quotations from poems written during the T'ang dynasty, and later than 
the seventh century of the Christian era. Any title to such great 
antiquity in the manufacture of Chinese porcelain, based on these 
bottles, which had evidently been surreptitiously introduced into the 
tombs l)v Arabs, thus fell to the ground. Indeed, M. du Sartel, who 
has published an exhaustive work on LaPorcelaine de la Chine, argues^ 
that the manufacture of true porcelain in China did not begin till 
some centuries later than the period assigned to it by M. Julien, 
who dates it from the reign of the Han dynasty and somewhere 
between the yeavs B. C. 185 and A. D. 87. This point will be consid- 
ered when we come to the reign of the T'ang dynasty, the period in 
which M. du Sartel claims true porcelain was iirst made. 

HAN DYNASTY, B. C. 202 TO A. D. 220. 

It is during the Han dynasty that mention is first made of Jr*//, the 
Chinese designation of porcelain. It was then made at Hsinping, a 
district in the State of Ch'en, and corresponding with the modern Huai- 
ning district, in Honan province. 

WEI DYNASTY, 221 TO 265. 

Under the Wei dynasty, which from A. D. 221 to 265 enjoyed, with 
the dynasties of Wu and of Han of Szechuen, divided supremacy as 
rulers of China, maiuifactories are mentioned at several places in the 
department of Hsi-an, in Shensi province (the products of which were 
known as KuanchAng-A'ao). and at Loyang, in Honan province (products 
termed Loching-fao), as supplying porcelain for the inq^erial palace. 

* Ro-sellini, I Monumenti dell' Egitto, 1834. Sir John Davis, The Chinese, 1836. 
J. Gardener Wilkinson, Manners and Customs of the Ancient Egyptians, 1837. 



312 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

CHIN DYNASTY, 266 TO 419. 

Under the Chin dynasty (A. D. 266 to 419) another manufactory is 
mentioned as existinj^ in the present department of Wenchou, in Cheh- 
kiang province, which produced porcelain (known as Tung-ou t'ao) of 
a blue (or possiblj^ celadon) color which was held in high esteem. 

SUI DYNASTY, 581 TO 617. 

Under the Sui dynasty, in spite of its short-liyed existence, consid- 
erable progress appears to have taken place. Mention is made of a 
green porcelain manufactured under the directions of Ho Chou or Ho 
Kuei-lin, president of the board of works, to replace glass, the method 
of making which had been forgotten ""since its introduction into China 
by Indian or Syrian artisans about A. D. 424." ^ A celebrated work- 
man, named T'ao Yii,'^ is said to have produced porcelain so like jade, 
that is, semitransparent and of vitreous appearance, that his vases 
were known as "artificial jade;" and about the close of this or the 
beginning of the following d3^nasty porcelain, white in color and 
bright as jade (known as Ho-yao, i. e.. Ho porcelain), was manufac- 
tured by Ho Chung-ch'u, a workman who came from Hsinp'ing, the 
district where porcelain {tz^v) had its first origin under the Han dynasty. 
An imperial decree of 5S3 ordered the establishment of a manufactory 
at the place now known as Chingte-chen (so named from the title of 
the period,^ Chingte, in which it was inaugurated) for articles for the 
use of the imperial household, and several others sprang up in the 
vicinity shortly afterwards. 

' F. Hirth, China and the Roman Orient, pp. 230 et seq. 

■■'The producer's reputed name, meaning as it does "faience or kihi jade," sounds 
apocryphal, and seems more likely to have been the term by which this ware was 
known. 

^ It being contrary to etiquette to mention the personal name of a Chinese sovereign, 
the practice was introduced B. C. 163, under the earlier Han dynasty, of the mon- 
arch, on his accession to the throne, selecting some title for his reign in place of the 
title of Prince so-and-so, which had been usually employed prior to the time of Shih 
Huangti, B. C. 221. These titles were usually so chosen as to be of happy augury, 
but if, in spite of such good omen, disorder or misfortune ensued or some other rea- 
son seemed to render a change advisable, one title would be abandoned in favor of 
another. This title is termed n?en-/(ao, "the year designation," because so long as 
it lasted the date of all events was chronicled as such and such a year of such and 
such a title, or nien-hao. Upon his death, however, the emperor received an honor- 
ific title, and but one title, no matter how many n(>n-/ioo, or "year designations," 
he may have employed while alive, under which the religious ceremonies due to him 
were offered, and which is therefore termed the miao-hao, or "temple designation." 
Thus it results that when in Chinese literature a deceased emperor is personally 
alluded to he is spoken of under his "temple designation," while if the date of an 
event which occurred during his reign is quoted it is said to have taken place in such 
and such a year of the appropriate "year designation." Take, as an instance, the 
la.st emperor of the Yiian dynasty, who reigned from 1333 to 1367; if spoken of per- 
sonally his title would be Shunti of the Yuan dynasty; but if the year 1331 were 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 313 

T'ANG DYNASTY, 618 TO 906. 

Under the succeeding, the T'ang d3'nasty, which ruled from 618 to 
OOP), the manufacture appears to have spread over the greater part of 
the empire, and to have reached in some places a degree of excellence 
far in advance of that previously attained. The following varieties are 
specificalh' enumerated (in the reverse order of their merit): 
The JliDujcJutu-yao^ a yellow-black porcelain from Hungchow, the 

present department of Nan-ch'ang, in Kiangsi province. 
The Shou-yao, a yellow porcelain from Shouchou in (present) Kiangsu 
province. 

spoken of, it would read "the second year of (the) Yi'ian t'ung (period)," and simi- 
larly 1336 and 1343 would read "the second year of (the) Chihyiian period)" and 
" the second year of (the) Chihcheng (period)." Owing to the fact that dates are 
thus rendered by the Cliinese foreign writers have at times erroneously spoken of 
the nien-hao, or "period," as the reign, whereas the miao-hao or " temple designation " 
alone corresponds to the Western idea of reign, so far as any time prior to the Ming 
dynasty is concerned. During the Ming and its successor, the present dynasty, how- 
ever, each emperor has practically used but one "yeardesignation" throughout the 
period he has occupied the throne, because though Ying Tsimg of the ^ling dynasty 
employed two such designations they were separated by an interregnum of seven 
years' duration; and though T'ai-Tsung-Wen, of the present dynasty, also employed 
two, he seldom or never comes to the notice of foreign writers. The term "period" 
being in any case an inconvenient one, and the "year designation" under the 
Ming and the present dynasty being synchronous with the reign, it seems hyper- 
critical to insist on unifoimly translating nien-liao by "period" in the case of 
emperors of those dj'nasties, especially as consistency would require that names so 
well known to every schoolboy, as Kunghsi, Yungcheng, and Chienlung be replaced 
by the proper titles, Sheng-Tsu-Jcn Huangti, Shih-Tsung-Hsien Huangti, and Kao- 
Tsung-Shun Huangti. In the following pages, therefore, the nien-Iiao or "year 
designation" has been rendered "period" prior to the accession of the Ming dynasty 
in 1368, and subsequently to that date as "period" or "reign," a(;cording to circum- 
stances. 

The dates upon porcelain are also usually recorded by the use of the nien-hao, as 
above described, though other marks are mentioned by Chinese writers, and if the 
article has been manufactured for the special use of some emperor or prince, it will 
possibly bear the name of the pavilion or portion of the palace for which it is spe- 
cially intended. Chinese writers state that the i)ractice of marking the date of man- 
ufacture was instituted by the Emperor Chen Tsung of the Sung dynasty, when, on 
theestal)lishment of the government factory at Chingte-chen, he ordered that each 
article manufactured should be marked with the nini-hao then used "Chingte, 1004 
to 1007." Foreign writers on the marks upon porcelain specify other marks of the 
same dynasty, but upon what authority is not clearly specified. So far as my own 
knowledge goes, I am unaware of any such date-marks being inscribed under the 
glaze prior to the Ming dynasty. Since that time, putting aside monochromes, 
which, in probably the majority of instances, bear no mark, they have been employed 
uninterruptedly, except during a portion of K'anghsi's reign. In 1677 the magis- 
trate in charge at Chingte-chen forbade the practice alike of in.scribing the date 
and of portraying the actions of celel)rated personages, on the ground that if the 
article were broken, disrespect might be shown to them or to the emperor. During 
this period, which was of but short duration, however, a leaf, a censer, and other 
marks replaced the nien-hao. 

NAT MUS 1900 23 



314 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

The Yo-i/ao, a })lue porcelain, according^ to Julicn, but the color was 
more proV)ably a pale green, for the Ch'a ching, a Treatise on 
Tea, written in the eighth century, says cups of this ware gave 
to the infusion a green tint — from the department of Yochou, in 
(present) Hunan province. 

The Wu-yao and Ting-yao, of colors unspecified, from the department 
of Wuchou, corresponding with the present department of Chinhua 
in Chehkiang province; and from the department of Tingchow, 
corresponding with the present district of Chingyang in the Hsi-an 
department, Shensi province, respectively. 

The Yiieh-yao, a blue, or for the same reason as in the case of Yo-yao a 
pale-green porcelain, much sought after from the earliest times, 
from Yiiehchou, corresponding with the present department of 
Chaohsing in Chehkiang province; and lastly 

The Shu-yao or Szechuen porcelain, easilj^ first among the productions 
of that age, snow-white in color, with a clear ring, thin but strong, 
and graceful in shape, fram the city of Ta-i, in the department of 
K'iungchou, in (present) Szechuen province. 

THE ANTIQUITY OF TRUE PORCELAIN. 

As already stated, M. du Sartel declines to admit the antiquity attrib- 
uted by M. Julien, on the authorit}^ of the native work he translated, 
to the production of true porcelain in China, namely, the time of the 
Han dynasty, and somewhere between the years B. C. 185 and A. D. 87. 
His arguments, however, are marked by strange inaccuracies. Having 
referred the productions of Hungchou, Shouchou, Yochou, and Yiieh- 
chou, which, as above, Chinese authors claim to have been first manu- 
factured under the T'ang dynasty, back to the Ch'in dynasty, that is, 
to a period nearly two centuries earlier, M. du Sartel argues that the 
remarks made in the Treatise on Tea above referred to (which, when 
enumerating the varieties of T'ang porcelain, classifies them merely 
according to the suitability of their colored glazes to impart an agree- 
able tint to tea held in them) tend to show that the bowls or cups in 
question could not have been transparent porcelain, bearing a decora- 
tion in the colors named under the glaze, but must have been of an 
opaque substance, covered internally with a thick colored glaze. In 
this view he considers himself supported by the description given of the 
Sui d^masty manufactures. This, he argues, gives an idea of trans- 
parence, but the transparence is due merely to the use of a more vit- 
reous composition or to a more thorough baking than had been pre- 
viously customary, and the white color and other distinctive qualities 
of true porcelain are only to be first found in the productions of the 
T'ang dynasty — that is, in those productions which M. du Sartel, in 
disregard of the statements of Chinese writers, the only authorities we 
have to guide us, himself elects to refer to this dynasty. Secondly, he 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 315 

argues that the porcelain manufactured under the Sui and preceding 
d3'nastie.s is uniformly denominated t^'ao^ that from the latter half of 
the T'ang dynasty this word is replaced by the designation y<io^ which 
has continued in use up to the present time, and that the change in name 
coincides with a change in the character of the porcelain manufactured. 

The word yao as a designation of porcelain came into general use, 
it is true, at the beginning of the T'ang dynasty, but that fact 
would scarcely justify the conclusion that it was designedly intro- 
duced in order to mark a synchronous change in the character of the 
ware, since the same word, which is in any case but a neutral term 
applicable to any kind of pottery, is met with four centuries earlier 
to designate some of the products of the Wei dynasty, and besides, 
in the titles of the chapters in the Provincial Topographies dealing with 
these manufactures, also in the Treatise on Potter}^ (the T'ao shuo, 
written b}' Chu T'ung-ch'uan during the reign of Chien-lung, 1736 to 
1795, the authorit}' on this subject), and in the work translated by M. 
Julien, it is the word f'ao^ not yao^ that is used to designate porcelain. 
Chinese terminology is but an insecure foundation on which to base 
arguments, and it might with no less fairness be contended, as the Chi- 
nese author translated by M. Julien does contend, that the introduc- 
tion of the character fe'w, signifying '' porcelain," and employed down 
to the present day to designate the pottery of the Han dynasty, was 
rendered necessary by the production of an article hitherto unknown, 
and that tliis article was true porcelain. 

On different grounds from those advanced by M. du Sartel, Doctor 
Hirth, al>^o. refers the earliest manufacture of true porcelain to the T'ang 
instead of to the Han dynasty. He says: ''The Cheng-lei-pen-ts'ao, 
the pharmacopceia of the Sung dynasty, compiled in 1108, under the 
head of 'Porcelain Earth' (Kaolin) or Pai-ngo, (luotes from the writ- 
ings of T'ao Yin-chii that ' this substance is now much used for paint- 
ing pictures,' and from the T'ang pen-ts'ao, the pharmacopoeia of the 
T'ang dynasty, compiled about 650: ' This earth is now used for painters' 
work, and rarely enters into medical prescriptions; during recent gen- 
erations it has been used to make white porcelain.'" As T'ao Yin- 
chii was a celebrated author on pharmaceutical and other scientitic 
subjects, who died A. D. .536, Doctor Hirth argues that had the pui-iu/o 
or kaolin been used in his time oti an extensive scale in the manufac- 
ture of chinaware, so learned a writer would almost certainly have 
mentioned the subject, and he therefore concludes that porcelain 
earth for the manufacture of potteiy came into use later than 536, 
and at some time during the T'ang period, prior to 650. about which 
date the pharmacopujia of that dynast}^ was compiled. 

This negative testimony does not, however, dispose of the strong argu- 
ment in favor of the earlier date, afforded by the coining during the Han 
dynasty of a new word, tz''u, to designate the productions of that age, 



316 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

a word which, as already stated, is still in ordinary use to designate 
porcelain. On this point Doctor Hirth thinks he has detected that 
the word ts'a has had dittercnt significations at ditferent epochs, for 
while in the Shuo-wen, a glossary published A. D. 100, tz^H is defined 
as "earthenware," it is defined in the dictionaries of the Sung period — 
nine centuries later — as "hard, tine-grained pottery; " and calling atten- 
tion to the fact that there are now two forms of this character in use, the 
original foi'ni with the radical denoting "brick or earthen material," 
and a later form with the radical "stone," he thinks that "this substitu- 
tion by later generations for the original sign of a character of the same 
sound, but with a radical more appropriate to the category of the word 
as it was at the time understood, may be regarded as indicating a 
change from the original meaning."^ Even if this be true, no data are 
thereby afforded to help fix even the approximate date of change in the 
method of manufacture. For after the change in the system of manu- 
facture had taken place, a considerable period would almost certainly 
elapse before an author of sufficient literary importance to impose a 
new style of writing on the nation would learn sufficient regarding the 
altered ingredients employed to have the corresponding modification in 
the descriptive word suggested to his mind, and a still longer period 
would elapse before this newly coined word would pass into current use. 
The authors translated by M. Julien, too, state distinctly that the 
introduction of the later form — that with the radical "stone" — and the 
continued use of it are due to ignorance and error. At Tz'ii-chou, a 
district anciently within the department of Changte, in Honan prov- 
ince, but now belonging to the department of Kuangp'ing, in Chihli 
province, a kind of porcelain was made during the Sung djaiasty which 
enjoyed a very high reputation, the plain white specimens bringing 
even higher prices than the celebrated productions of Tingchow, which 
it closely resembled. This ware was known as Ts'w ware, or porcelain 
from Tz'u-chow, and thus this form of the character, which was origi- 
nall}" a local designation, not an intentional modification of the older 
form introduced to typify a modification in the system of manufacture, 
passed into general use to designate not merely this special class, but 
(erroneously) all porcelain.^ 

ORIGIN OF TERM "PORCELAIN." 

It is a curious coincidence that no less diversity of opinion has existed 
regarding the date at which the western equivalent of this word fe't^, 
the term "porcelain," was introduced and the article it has at different 

'F. Hirth, Ancient Chinese Porcelain, p. 2. 

-R. JuUen, L'Histoire et la Fabrication de la Porcelaine Chinoise, p. 29: This is, I 
think, probably the true explanation of the change of form; for the only correct way of 
■writing tliis character recognized at the present time l)y the Imperial Academy is the 
original form, with the radical "earthenware," not tliat with the radical "stone," 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 317 

times been used to designate. Pere d'Entrecolles affirms that the name 
porcelain was first given by the Portuguese to the Chinese vases 
imported by them into Europe in 1518, but further researches into 
the history of the word by ]M. Brongniart and M. de Laborde show 
that the name arose from a supposed resemblance in appearance of 
surface between the transparent potter}" of the East and certain shells 
which had been previously so designated. M. de Laboi-de says: 

Les anciens ayant trouve on cherche une ressemblance entre ce (ju'ils appelaient 
porea et certaines coquilles, donnerent a celles-la le nom de porcella. Le moyeii age 
accepta cette analogie en appelant porcelaine une faniille entiere de coquillen, et anssi 
le8 ouvrages qui etaient faits de nacre de perle, et, par metonymie, la nacre senle 
tiree de la coquille. 

A partir du XIV'' siecle, les gardes des joyaux decrivent en grand nombre dans les 
inventaires, et les experts mentionnent et estiment dans leurs rapports, des vases, des 
ustensiles de table, des tableaux de devotion, et des joyaux faits de la porcelaine. 
Cette ex])ression a travers quelques variantes sans importance, reste la meme et s'ap- 
plique aux memes choses jusqu'au XVP siecle; de ce moment elle se bifunjue pour 
conserver d'une part sa vieille signification, et s'etendre de I'autre a des vases et 
ustensiles d' importation etrangere qui offraient la meme blancheur nacree. C'etait 
la poterie emaillee de la Chine qui s'emparaitde ce nom aTnintd ellen'avait droit que 
par une analogie de teinte et de grain. 

!M. du Sartel is strongly of opinion that the word porcelain was used 
in its present sense far earlier than the date assigned by ]M. de Laborde, 
and in support of his view quotes the mention of " pourcelaine " in royal 
inventories dating from 1360 to 1416 for France, and from the beginning 
of the sixteenth century for the Roman Empire. These documents 
appear to m<\ however, rather to support M. de Laborde's views; for 
the details given in the French inventories of representations on the 
articles named, of our Lord, the Blessed Mother, and of Saints, and of 
their decoration with jewels,' would seem to make the possibility of their 
being oriental porcelain more than doubtful; while the inventories 
})elonging to the Romaii Empire — that is, from the date M. de Laborde 
says the word was applied to oriental pottery, do mention articles 
undoubtedl}' of real porcelain, all, with one exception, in monochrome. 

A statement quoted by M. du Sartel from Pierre Belon, of 1553, is 
worth reproducing, as evidence that in the latter half of the sixteenth 
century the word porcelain was still applied to shells, to mothor-of-pearl, 
to oriental pottery, and even to Italian faience. He says: 

Des vaisseaux de porcelaine, qu'il a vus vendre en public an Caire, lesquels vases 
de jiorcelaine sont transparents et coustent bien cher au Caire et ilz disent mesme- 
ment qu'ilz lea apportent des Indes, mais cela ne me sembla vraysemblable; car on 

nV^ith regard to the last mentioned, it should be stated that in the magnificent 
Dresden collection, formed chiefly by Augustus the Strong, King of Poland and 
Elector of Saxony, between 1694 and 1705, there is a small ivory-white i)late with 
uncut rubies and emeralds in gold filigree let into the })aste, with the character fn, 
happiness, on the foot in blue under the glaze, which is said to have been brought 
by a crusader from Palestine in the twelfth century. 



318 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

n'eii voirroit pas si grando (luantite ni <le si grandes pieces s'il les falloit apporter de 
si loing. Une esguiero, un pot on nn autre vaisseaii, pour petite qu'elle soit, couste 
\in duoa,t; si c'est quelfjue grand vase, il coustera davantage. 

Et les voyant uoinmez d'une appellation nioderne et cherehant leur etymologie 
franc^oise, j'y trouve qu'ils sont nommez du noni que tient une espece de coquille de 
porcelaine. Mais I'affinite de la diction Murex correspond il Murrhina; toutefois je ne 
cherche I'etymologie (jue du noni fran(;:ois en ce que nous disons vaisseaux de pource- 
layne, scachans que les Grecs nomment la mirrhe de Smirna, les vaisseaux qu'on vend 
pour ce aujourd'lmi en nos pais, nommez de pourcelaine, ne tiennent tache de la 
nature des anciens; et combien que les nieilleurs ouvriers de I'ltalie n'en font jioint 
de telz, toutefois, ils vendent leurs ouvrages pour vaisseaux de pourcelaine, combien 
qu'ils n'ont pas la niatiere de mesnie. ' ^ 

THE FIVE DYNASTIES, 907 TO 959. 

To the T'ang- .succeeded the epoch of the live dynasties, all of them 
short-lived and naming themselves successors to some one of the more 
important dynasties thai had preceded them. 

Under one of these, the Posterior Chou, during the reign of the 
Emperor Shih-tsung (054 to 959), a celebrated porcelain, far superior to 
any yet produced, was manufactured in the district of Pien, the present 
department of K-aifeng, in Honan province. It is described as being 
sky-l)lue in color, of l)rilliant surface, thin as paper, and giving out a 
clear musical sound when struck, the only defect being that the base 
was apt to be disfigured by the remains of the coarse sand on which the 
vessel had rested in the furnace, and which had become attached to it 
during the process of baking. The color was adopted in obedience to 
an imperial order that porcelain intended for palace use should thence- 
forward be ' ' as blue as the clear sky after rain. " This porcelain, which 
was consequently termed Yil-yao^ "Imperial porcelain," and. after the 
accession of the succeeding dynastj'^, 6yi'rt«-y(;/«9, "Ch'ai porcelain " (Ch'ai 
being the Emperor's family name), was very highly prized, and becom- 
ing in subsequent years, owing to its delicate make, exceedingl}^ rare, 
the smallest fragments were treasured as cap ornaments or necklace 
pendants. Porcelain, blue in color and with the characters "blue as 
the clear sky after rain" stamped in the glaze, is at the present time to 
be obtained in China. It is scarcely necessary to state, however, that 
such specimens do not date from the time of Shih-tsung; on the contrary, 
the}^ are of quite modern manufacture. Already in the sixteenth cen- 

'Du Sartel, Porcelaine Chinoise, j). 33. 

■^Florio, in bis Italian dictionary (1598), gives '' Porcdinnn, a kinde of fine earth 
called Por(;elane, whereof they make fine China dishes called Porcellan dishes. China, 
a Venus basin," i. e., a Venice basin. It may reTuain a question whether Majolica, 
exported by way of Venice, was called China from a supposed resemblance to oriental 
porcelain, or whether the wares alluded to by Florio were in fact oriental. Minsheu, 
inhisSiianish dictionary (1599), gives '^ Porrrllana, a kinde of earthen vessel 1 painted; 
costly fruit dishes of fine earth, painted " — quoted in Marryat's History of Pottery 
and Porcelain, p. 242. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 319 

tury Hsiang' Tzu-ching writes in the preface to hi.s catalogue, '"In the 
present day men search for a fragment of this porcelain without Ijeing 
able to find one. and declare it to be but a phantom."' 

EARLIEST rORCELAIN EXTANT DATES FROM SUXG DYNASTY. 

In truth, the description which has l)een attempted of the varieties 
of porcelain hitherto enimierated possesses merely a historical interest. 
No specimens manufactured prior to the advent of the Sung dynasty 
have survived to the present day. and even of the Sung productions the 
finer kinds have entirely disappeared. Such specimens as have weathered 
the storms and dangers of the subsequent eight centuries are, so far as 
I am aware, only celadons of considerable solidity — chiefly Lungch'iian 
or Chiinchow ware — or small pieces of ik) great fineness. Three cen- 
turies ago even the finest varieties were already' scarce, as is evident 
from a passage in the P^ing Ima-p^u^ an essay on flower-pots and flowers 
in pots, from the pen of Chang Ch'ien-te, an author who wrote near the 
close of the Ming dynast}-, that is, about the beginning of the seven- 
teenth century: 

In anc-ient tiaies no vases were made of porcelain, and up to tlie T'ang dj-nasty 
all such vessels were of copper. It Mas not till then that pottery came into vogue. 
After this period we find a large immber of classes of porcelain, such as the kinds 
known as Ch'ai (that described above), Ju, Kuan, Ko, Ting, Lungch'iian, Chiinchou, 
Changsheng, "Wuni (all of the Sung dynasty period), Ilsiiante, and Ch'enghua(of the 
Ming dynasty). Among antiquities, copper articles are the best; of porcelain, the 
Ch'ai and Ju kinds, though the best of all, have ceased to exist; Kuan, Ko, Hsiian, 
and Ting porcelains are the most precious curiosities of the present day; whereas the 
porcelains called Lungcih'iian (the heavy old celadons of modern collectors), Chiin- 
chou, Changsheng, Wunie, and Ch'enghua are esteemed as objects of oidy secondary 
value." - 

As Chang Ch'ien-te further sa3''s that he constantly met with speci- 
mens of Juchou porcelain, and since vases of that ware are figured 
in Hsiang Tzu-ching's catalogue, it would appear that this highly 
esteemed porcelain must have disappeared from the market towards 
the close of the sixteenth eenturj'. It is curious, too, that while Chang 
Ch'ien-te places the productions of the Ch'enghua period (1465 to 1487) 
at the foot of the list of porcelains of "only secondary value," the 
prices paid for this ware within a century of its production were ver}' 
high. In Hsiang Tzu-ching's catalogue the price paid for a tazza-sbaped 
cup is stated to have been 60 taels (or $90 gold); and of two miniature 
wine cups he saj's, "these are choice .specimens of the wdne cups of 
this celebrated reign, and are valued at 100 taels ($150 gold) the pair, 
yet now even for this mone}" it is impossible to get them. " ^ 

*S. AV. Bushell, Chinese Porcelain before the Present Dynasty, \>. Tl. 

^ F. Hirth, Ancient Chinese Porcelain, p. 10. 

^S. W.Bushell, Chinese Porcelain before the Present Dynasty, No. 5."), 59. 



320 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

STTN(; DYNASTY, 960 TO 1259. 

The porcelain manufactured under this d3aiasty appears to have far 
excelled in (luality and delicacy of workmanship all that preceded it, 
the Ch'ai-yao alone perhaps excepted. The shapes and ornamental 
decorations appear to have been modeled, as a rule, after ancient 
bronzes, figured in illustrated catalogues of the most celebrated 
specimens of such vessels (as the Po-ku-t'u), published during the 
Hsiian-ho period, 1119 to 1125, and the K'ao-ku-t'u; and when not 
modeled after such ancient designs, the vessel took the form of some 
natural object, as a tree or flower or of some animal, real or imaginary. 
In the former the pattern was engraved with a pointed st3'le in the 
paste, and was broken here and there by lions' or dragons' heads in 
bold relief, with an elaboration and wealth of ornament hitherto un- 
dreamed of. That a remarkable degree of proficiency had by this time 
been obtained in the ceramic art is evident from the descriptions pre- 
served ))y Hsiang Tzii-ching of some specimens of Tingchou ware 
seen by him. 

(1) A Bacrifirial jar in the form of an elephant from an ancient bronze design. 
The l)0(ly forms the wine >eri8el, theupHfted trunk the spout, a narrow canopy arch- 
injr over the saddle the handle, to which is attached a round cover ornamented with 
geometrical and spiral scroll borders surmounted by a knot. The rope girths and 
ornamental details engraved under a white glaze. 

(2) A branched pricket candlestick — a slender pillar on a solid foliated stand 
curves at the top to end in a phwnix head, from the back of which hangs a ring chain, 
which suspends the stem of a lotus, branching into three flowers to hold the candles, 
which are shaded by a huge overhanging leaf. Ornamented with engraving under 
a pure wriite glaze. 

(3) A jar which was of irregular quadrangular section, carved in relief after an 
ancdent bronze design, with lobes on the body, a scroll border below, and a band of 
ornament in the form of coiled dragons round the neck. Loop handles terminating 
in horned heads and with rings hanging from them project from the neck. Covered 
with glaze the color of rii)e grapes, transparent and of a perfect luster — a beautiful 
vase to hold flowers for the table.' 

INTRODUCTIOX OF COLORED DECORATION. 

Prior to the Sung dynast}^ the external color of all porcelain appears 
to have been solely determined by that of the glaze, and to have been 
almost entirely monochrome. In a few instances vases Avere covered 
with parti-colored glazes, which were apt to flow into one another in 
the heat of the kiln, and so gave rise to the fortuitous productions 
known as Yao-p'ien (the French Jlamhex)^ articles the decoration of 
which "changed during the process of baking." The Sung porcelain 
was essentially, 1 believe, of the same character, the coloring of the 
article produced being determined only ])y the kind of glaze which 
was spread over the paste or bi.scuit. 

^ S. W. Bushell, Chinese Porcelain before the Present Dynasty, Nos. 33, 80, 18. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 321 

With the sole exception of the Nanteng- ware, and a portion of that 
from Linch'uan, produced during- the Yiian dynasty, none of which 
seems to have survived to the present day, but which is described as 
having- been decorated with tiowers coarsely painted under the glaze, 
1 can rtnd nothing in the works of Chinese writers on this subject to 
justify the concession of a greater antiquity than the early part of the 
Ming- dynasty — that is, the tirst half of the fifteenth century — to the 
ornamentation of vases with arabesques and scroll work, with land- 
scapes, historical scenes, or genre paintings in several colors. 

This conclusion, if correct, is a point of considerable importance as an 
aid in determining the true age of specimens which are at times credited 
with an origin far remote. It is true that celadon vases, into the orna- 
mentation of which leaves enter, are sometimes described as having- the 
leaves veined with dark green, l)ut these deeper shades may result from 
the fact that the ornamentation has been engraved in the paste, and 
that the coloring matter has sunk into the line of engraving, thereby 
producing- a darker shade along the lower levels. Other specimens of 
celadon ware had one or sometimes two bands of ornamentation of a 
deeper green than the body of the vase. This deeper tone might, 
however, have been produced by a doulile layer of glaze; in any case 
the peculiarity would not amount to ornamentation in several colors 
in the sense in which I use that expression. Again, the single speci- 
men of black Tingchou porcelain illustrated (and indeed ever seen) by 
Hsiang Tzu-ching is described as ''a duck-headed vase, bottle shape, 
with swelling body and ringed neck, which curves over to end in a 
duck's head, a round oritice with a small cover being- on the convexity 
of the curve. The black color is painted on the head and neck, gradu- 
ally fading away on the body of the vase, which is enamelled white.'' ^ 
This description conveys the idea that the head and neck of the duck 
were covered with black glaze, the body of the vase with white glaze, 
and that in the baking the former spread downwards and 'gradually 
merged into the white of the body. It in no way invalidates the con- 
clusion a])ove suggested. 

It will be advisable to examine in greater detail the several varieties 
of porcelain manufactured under this dynasty, following the order of 
merit usually ascribed to them by Chinese writers. 

JU-YAO. 

Ju-yao or Jncliou jyorcelam. — Chinese authors state that the porcelain 
manufactured at Tingchow (see p. 324), being unfit for presentation 
to the Emperor, the establishment of a factory for the nuiiuifacture of 
more suitable articles was ordered at fJuchow, in Honan Province. 
According to some writers the defect of the Tingchou ware was its 



I 



^8-. W. Bushell, Chinese Porcelain before the Present Dynasty, No. 35. 



322 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

gritty character; according to others, the frequency of cracks caused 
by too rapid or careless baking. As, however, they agree in ascribing 
the introduction of Ju-yao and its success to the earlj' part of the Sung 
dynasty — that is, to the very time from which date the tin est specimens 
of the Tingchou porcelain — it is difficult not to conclude that native 
authors, writing centuries later, have ascribed the establishment of this 
factory to erroneous causes. 

The finest specimens, which were very thin and delicate, were supe- 
rior to imperial ware {Knan-yao), and were of either plain or crackled ^ 
surface, with the ornamentation engraved under the paste. The 
craquelure^ though coarse in inferior specimens, must in the better 
grades have been very close and fine, as it is described as resembling 
fish roe. But that not crackled was the most highly esteemed. Hsiang 
Tzff-ching, describing a beaker of old bronze design with engraved 
decoration under a bluish-green color not crackled, speaks of it as 
"a rare kind of Juchou ware." In color it was celadon. In one 
place this porcelain is described, it is true, as being like the sk}- after 
rain, but as elsewhere it is stated to have resembled the Ko-yao^ or 

'Crackling {craquelure) was originally considered in Europe a defect of baking, 
which resulted from a lack of homogeneity between paste and glaze, canning one to 
contract more rapidly than did the other. It was not till a comparatively recent date 
that the actual facts came to lie appreciated, namely, that in the eyes of the Chinese 
the craquelure is a species of decoration, and that they have a special kind of en- 
amel, into the composition of which steatite enters largely, the sole object of which 
is to jiroduce this curious appearance. By means of this enamel they can at will 
cover the surface of a vase with any one of a variety of craquelure, either large 
"like cracks in ice," or small as " the fish roe, " "the dodder," or "the crabs' claws." 
In some specimens bands are found crackled separating other bands not crackled; or 
colors, usually either black or red, are rubbed into the crackling to render it more 
apparent, or to impart a tinge to the entire surface. In other specimens again, 
though for what reason is not known, the paste, after having been decorated, is cov- 
ered with a crackled glaze, and a second decoration, having no apparent connection 
with that beneath, is painted above the glaze. The col(jrs of the Juchou, govern- 
ment {Kuan), Ko, Lungch'iian and Chiinchou porcelains were all some shade of 
what the Chinese call ch'ing. Now cli'hig means in some combinations blue, in others 
a pale dull green, as of the fresh olive, which is called by the Chinese ch'ing-kuo, (lie 
c/i'(?i^ colored fruit. Pere d'EntrecoUes, when writing of the Lungch'iian ware, 
describes its color correctly as teinte d' olive. M. Julien, however, in spite of a hint 
given from the technical annotator M. Salvetat, which might have set him right, 
rejected this sense on what seemed to him sufficient grounds, and insisted on (errone- 
ously) translating this word throughout his work as "blue," though by so doing he 
had to make his porcelain "as l>lne as [green] jade " — with the result that subsequent 
writers on this subject have failed to derive any assistance from his work in deter- 
mining the origin and history of celadon porcelain. Hirth, Ancient Chinese Porce- 
lain, p. 7. 

Ci^ladon was originally the name of the hero in the popular novel V Astree, written 
by Honore d'Urfe in the seventeenth century. Celadon was attired in clothes of a 
kind of sea-green hue with gray or bluish tint, and his name thus came to be applied 
to the clothes he wore, precisely that designated by the Chinese as ch'ing. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 323 

crackled celadons in color, though somewhat darker in shade, there 
seems no reason to doubt that its real tint was bluish-g-reen — that is, 
celadon- — especially as the specimens of this ware illustrated in the cat- 
alogue translated ])y Doctor Bushell are so painted.' Hsiang Tzu'- 
ching. the author of this catalogue, after describing a vase 6^ inches 
high, which is stated to have cost 150,000 cash, or about $150 gold, 
savs, ** Specimens of Juchou ware are ver3'rare, and. when met with, 
are usually plates and bowls. A perfect unbroken vase like this is 
almost unique, and as it excels Kuan and Ko porcelain both in form 
and glaze, it is far more valuable." Within three or four decades 
later, as has already been stated, it seems to have been impossible to 
find an}' specimens at all of this ware. 

KUAN-YAO. 

Kuan-yao — that is, official or Government porcelain — was the produce 
of the imperial factories established under the Sung dj'nast}' between the 
years HOT and HIT at Pienliang. the present department of K'aifeng, 
in Honan province, and after the removal southwards of the court 
before the advancing ^Mongols, at the southern capital, Hangchou, in 
Chehkiang province. During the Takuan period (1107 to 1110) the 
shades specially affected were, first, pale white like the moon, the 
French clalrde June; second, pale bluish-green; and third, dark green; 
but during the Chingho period (1111 to HIT) the onl}- color employed 
was l)luish-green, both dark and pale in tint. This porcelain was very 
thin, and in some cases crackled all over so finely as to resemble crab's 
claws, with the red brim and iron-colored foot distinctive of the true 
celadon. The Po-iou-yao-lan^ quoted in the T^io-shuo" Treatise on 
Pottery (chap. 2, p. 9), explains this latter expression as follows: 

As regards Kuan-yao, it should he known that the porcelain earth found at the foot 
of the Fthighuang-shan, or Phwnix hill, near Hangchou, is red; for this reason the 
foot (the base on which the vessel rests when being fired, and which is therefore not 
covered by the enamel), resembles iron in color. This was at the time called "red- 
mouthed and iron-footed." The term "red mouth" refers to the brim or opening of 
the vessel, which becomes red by the enamel flowing down and away from it, so as to 
be much thinner on the brim than it is on the body of the vessel, thus allowing spots 
of red paste to become visible. 

Doctor Hirth. after quoting this explanation, adds: 

The red or iron colored bottom, usually appearing in the shape of a ring, is a char- 
acteristic feature of the Lungch'iian celadons; but if the above explanation is c-or- 
rect, the bottom of Lungch'iian vessels differed from Kuan-yao bottoms, since the 
paste of Hangchou celadons (the southern Kuan-yao) is said to be red in itself, 
whereas that of the Lungch'iian-yao is originally white, and merely turns red in such 
parts of the surface as are not covered by the enamel.^ 

' S. Julien, L'Histoire et la Fabrication de la Porcelains Chinoise, p. 63. S. W. 
Bushell, Chinese Porcelain before the Present Dynasty, Nos. 19, 22, 34. 
^ F. Hirth, Ancient Chinese Porcelain. 



324 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

From Hsiang Tzu-cbing-'s catalogue it would .seem as if there were 
originally two recognized classes of this ware — ordinary Kuan-yao and 
Ta-l-uan, or superior Kuan-yao. Among the latter he mentions an 
ink slab for the Emperor's use, in which "an oval was left unglazed in 
the center for rub))ingthe ink on, showing the red paste.'' Both were 
celadon in color; in the superior variety {ta-kiutn), however, the glaze 
appears to have been more brilliant — it is described as "clear and lus- 
trous, like an emerald in tint." The two specimens of this ware de- 
scribed were both coarsely crackled. The ordinary Kuan-iiao was in 
some cases crackled with a glaze varying from pale green to deep onion; 
in other specimens uncrackled, the latter being seemingly of a lighter 
tint than the crackled; the ornamentation, consisting of a varietv of 
scroll designs or of some geometrical patterns broken by animals' 
heads in relief, was engraved under the glaze. ^ 

After the court had been removed south to Hangchou, Shao Ch'eng- 
chang, superintendent of the Northern Imperial Park, is said to have 
established a factory in the residence of the junior director of the 
palace. Made of very pure clay, with great grace of form and covered 
with a transparent, brilliant glaze, this porcelain, which was termed 
Nel-yao porcelain of the palace or Kiian-yao — Government porcelain — 
gained a high reputation. 

TING-YAO. 

Ting-yao^ or porcelain of Tingchow, was manufactured originally in 
the district of that name in Chihli province, near the present depart- 
ment of Chengting. It was known as Pel-ting or Northern Ting 
(960-1126), in contradistinction to the Nan-ting or Southern Ting, pro- 
duced at Hangchow after the retreat of the court southward before 
the advancing Mongols in 1127. The former was the more highly 
prized, and the tinest specimens of this ware were those produced, it is 
said, during the period Chengho (1111 to 1117) and Hsiianho (1119 to 
1125). In color they were brilliant white, purple, or black; and though 
the Ko-ku-yao-lan (a work treating of antiquities, completed in 1387), as 
quoted in the T''a()-i<huo. or Treatise on Porcelain, from which the au- 
thors translated b}^ M. Julien derive most of their information regarding 
the ceramics of earlier dynasties, gives as the test of Tingchow porce- 
lain "the purity of its white color and ])rillancy of its glaze," it is evi- 
dent that the connoisseur Hsiang Tzu-ching experienced a stronger 
affection for his "beautiful purple glaze, uniformly brilliant and trans- 
parent, resembling the tint of ripe grapes or of the aubergine (egg- 
plant) '' and his black, than he did for the white glaze, though it were, 
in his own words, "uniformly lustrous and translucent,. like mutton-fat 
or fine jade." Both the purple and black varieties were far rarer than 

*S. W. Bushell, Chinese Porcelain before the Present Dynasty, Nos. 2, 5, 8, 13, 15, 
17, 47, 50, 53, 73. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 325 

the white. '* I have seen." says the collector, "hundreds of specimens 
of the white, scores of purple-]>rown. but the black is extremely rare, 
and I have only seen the one specimen I have described in my whole 
life" — and ho then had in his possession at least one of the specimens 
more than tifty years. It is. I think, in this rarity of the purple and 
black glazes that the explanation of the dictum above (juoted is to be 
found, and probably they were unknown to its authors. The varieties 
mentioned in the Ko-ku-y<«>-f(iti as inferior to the white do not include 
these colors, and seem to result from impure clav or defective glaze. 

The same work (the Ko-kii-yao-lan) says that one of the signs of the 
genuineness of this ware was the presence of marks on it like tears. 
This probal)ly means granulations, for it is explained that these marks 
were caused by the manner in which the enamel was thrown upon the 
white paste. Specimens having ornamental designs engraved in the 
paste were the best, though the plain or unornamented were also highly 
esteemed: the second class consisted of such as had the ornamentation 
worked into the enamel, and a third of such as had the decoration 
printed or pressed upon them with a mold, the ornaments chiefly used 
being the Chinese peon}" or Poaonia moutan, the hsuan-ts''ao or Ileniero- 
calUxfidra. and the ^xmgfenghuang (Phoenix). In Hsiang Tzu-ching's 
catalogue, however, eleven specimens, all undoubtedly of the finest 
qualit}^ — six of the white glaze, four of the purple, and one of the 
black — are described, into the ornamentation of no one of which enters 
either of these so-called *' usual" patterns; the decoration in ever}' case 
is in general character exactly similar to that found on the Juchow 
ware already described. 

Tingchow ware was well imitated during the Yuan d3'^nasty (1260 to 
1367) bv one P'eng Chiin-pao at Hochow, in Kiangnan province, and 
later on ver}' successfully at Chingte-chen.^ His productions, known 
as P'eng porcelain, after himself, and Ho porcelain, from the locality, 
are described as "line in paste and white in color, looking ver}- nuich 
like real Ting-yaoy 

lungch'uan. 

Lnngch'uan-yao (Lungch'.iian porcelain) was manufactured from the 
earl}' part of the Sung dynasty (end of tenth or beginning of eleventh 
century) in the district of that name, situated in the department of 
Ch'iichow, Chehkiang province. The ornamentation was engraved 
under the glaze, which was of various shades from the color of grass to 
deep onion-green, sometimes crackled and sometimes not crackled: and 
occasionally bands of foliate or scroll pattern are found of deeper tone 
than the rest of the vessel. The biscuit, which was of tine clay, turned 
brown when the absence of glaze had exposed it to the effect of heat 

'S. Julien, L'Histoire et la Fabrication de la Poroelaiiie Chinoise, pp. 21, 61. F. 
Hirth, Ancieut Chinese Porcelain, pp. 13 d csr'/. 



326 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

during baking, though when covered by the glaze and in fractures it 
remained white, and on the base or foot was a ferruginous ring. The 
specimens which survive are mostl}^ coarse and thick, but as the best 
examples were considered but little inferior to Kuan-yao, these prob- 
ably represent only the rougher and inferior grades. In the designs no 
little artistic merit is shown at times. One specimen which is described 
by Hsiang Tzii-ching (and I have myself seen one exactly similar) 
consists of a whorl of palm leaves surrounding a hollow stem to hold 
tiowers. Another is "a sacrificial urn moulded in the form of a horn- 
less rhinoceros, the body hollowed out to hold Avine, with a peaked 
saddle on the back as cover, after a bronze design from the Po-ha-f'u 
encyclopfedia," The author translated by M. Julien says that this 
ware was subsequently successfully imitated at Chingte-chen, and that 
the latter surpassed the originals in beauty. Doctor Hirth, however, 
avers on the authority of native connoisseurs that the pui-e Lungch'iian 
products can be distinguished from all imitations; first, because it is 
a peculiarity of the clay used in the manufacture of the former alone 
to turn brown or red on the surface when left exposed during baking, 
while the biscuit remains white where covered; and, secondly, because, 
owing to this peculiarity of the clay, the ferruginous ring on articles 
of white porcelain manufactured elsewhere can only be produced by 
artificially coloring the foot or base; an act which, of course, admits of 
ready detection on the part of an experienced collector.^ 

KO-YAO OR CHANG-YAO. 

Subsequently, after the removal of the court southward in 1127, 
according to an authority quoted in the Topography of the Chehkiang 
province, the brothers Chang, natives of Ch'uchow, but having their 
factory in the Lungch'iian district, gained a high reputation for their 
porcelain. These brothers are known as Sheng-i, the elder-born, and 
Sheng-erh, the second-born. The produce of the former's kiln was 
called Ko-yao^ or elder-brother's porcelain, to distinguish it from that 
manufactured by the younger Chang, which was termed Chang-yao or 
CJmikj Lun(jch!-uanyao^ i. e., Lungch'iian porcelain made by Chang (the 
younger). Both are celadon in color, though the elder brother's ware 
appears to have been lighter in tint, and l)oth have the distinctive marks 
of celadon, the red mouth or opening and ferruginous ring on the foot. 
The niain difierence l)etween the two seems to have been that the Ko-yao 
was crackled — so closely in the best specimens as to resemble the fish- 
roe — ^whercas the CImng-yao was uncrackled. In other respects the 
descriptions are curiously conflicting. The history of the Chingte- 
chen factory says that Ko-yao was' extremely thin, while the Wu-ts'a- 
tsu, a work of the Ming dynasty, speaks of it as the one kind of por- 

1 S. Julien, L'Histoire et la Fabrication de la Porcelaine Chinoise, p. 69. F. Hirth, 
Ancient Chinese Porcelain, pp. 31 e( ser/. S. W. Bushell, Chinese Porcelain before 
the Present Dynasty. Nos. 12, 16, 23, 25-27, 29, 32, 36, 67, 77. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 327 

cehiiii of this opoch "of which it is not too difficult to obtain specimens, 
owing- to its peculiar heaviness, which enaliles it to last long."' As 
compared with the more ancient porcelain of Lungch'uan, the produc- 
tions of the two Chang are described as ''smaller, more graceful in 
shape, and showing greater delicacy of workmanship."^ 

CHilN-YAO. 

The C/mn-i/aowns a porcelain made from the early part of the Sung 
dynasty, in the district of Chiinchow or sometimes wi-ongly correspond- 
ing to the present district of Yii-chow, in the department of K'aifeng, 
Honan province. It was sometimes molded in grotesque forms (as a 
lamp formed of a hornless dragon with scaly body and four short legs, 
the serpent-like head protruding with mouth open to receive the wick 
and body hollowed into a receptacle for oil), but was usually modeled 
after ancient bronzes and ornamented with scroll or floral patterns under 
the glaze, which, according to Hsiang Tzu-ching. w^as either vermilion- 
red or aubergine purple — the two most valuable colors — moonlight 
white {c-/((N' de lune) or pale green, and sometimes marked with granida- 
tions. The authorities quoted in the T^ao-shuo, or Treatise on Potteiy, 
would lead one to believe that the best pieces had two or more colors 
of glaze on the same vase. The higher quality, according to them, con- 
sisted of pieces having a color red like cinnabar and green like onion 
leaves and kingfisher's feathers, which is commonly called parrot-green, 
and aubergine purple, or of pieces red like rouge, green like onion leaves 
and kingfishers feathers, and purple like ink; these three colors being 
intact and unchanged by baking. IVL Julien enumerates seven varie- 
ties: (1) green or blue like plums: (2) purple-brown like the auberg- 
ine; (3) red like the Pynm japon'ua; (4) pig's liver; (5) mule's lungs; 
(6) mucus; (7) skA^-blue. But such differentiation appears erroneous, 
for the Treatise on Pottery says: 

Pieces that have one or two numbers on the bottom as a trade-mark, and are of a 
color resembling pig's liver — since the red, cVmg (celadon), and green colors got 
mixed together like saliva hanging down through not ))eing sufhciently fired — are 
not to l)e distinguished as different kinds; for such names as nuicus or pig's liver, 
which are given to this class of porcelain, have been invented for fun's sake. Among 
these porcelains those which have bottoms like the flower pots in which sword grass 
is grown are considered the most excellent; the others, namely, those which have 
ton-shaped censers, Ho-fang jugs, or Kuan-tzu, are all of a yellowish sandy paste, 
for which reason they are not good in appearance.'' 

' S. Julien, L'Histoire et la Fabrication de la Porcelaine Chinoise, pp. xxvi, 70. 
F. Hirth, Ancient Chinese Porcelain, pp. 31, et seq. S. W. Bushell, Chinese Porcelain 
before the Present Dynasty, Xo. 11. 

^The translation followed is Doctor Hirth's, but the sense is better brought out by 
Doctor Bushell's more correct rendering, which runs thus: "Among these porcelains 
the flower pots and saucers for growing sword grass are the most beautiful , the others, 
namely, the barrel seats, censers and boxes, square vases and jars with covers," etc. 
(North China Herald, 12th May, 1888.) The words here rendered, "the flower 



328 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



The same authority adds that none of these porcelains lasted long. 
Specimens are, however, I believe, still to be found. Hsiang Tzu- 
ching, after describing a small jar, of globular form, with two boldly 
designed phcenixes molded in high relief as handles, interrupting a 
border of spirally ornamented medallions, adds: 

Chiinchow porcelain is put at the bottom of tlie Sung potteries, yet a jar like this 
one, of elegant form, good color, and fine engraved work, equals^, if not excels, as a 
flower vase, one of Ju, Kuan, Ko, or Ting pottery. It is marked beneath with the 
numeral wa, five, an additional proof that it is really a Chiin piece.' 

TUNG-CH'ING-YAO. 

Tnn(i-ch>%ng-yao^ or celadon porcelain, from the eastern capital, was 
produced at factories situated in the department of K'aifeng, Honan 
province, the so-called eastern capital of the Sung monarchs, before 
their I'etreat southward, from 960 to 1126. It was of various shades 
of celadon, uncrackled (seemingly), with the ornamentation engraved 
under the glaze. The description given by Hsiang Tzii-ching of a 
small vessel of this ware will convey a truer idea of its character than 
the vague disquisition of the encycloptedists. 

"It is of hexagonal form, with lobed border, decorated in panels, 
with formal sprays of flowers, plum blossoms, polyporus fungus, and 
grass, chrysanthemum, bamboo, etc., carved in relief under a glaze of 
bright green color like jade, raised in faint millet-like tubercles."^ 



LESS CELEBRATED VARIETIES. 

in addition to the above celebrated productions of the Sung dynasty, 
the following l^ss remarkable varieties may be mentioned: 
The Ilsiao-yao^ from the Hsiao district, in the department of Hsuchou, 

Kiangnan province, extremely thin and brilliant, white in color, 

and very elegant in shape and workmanship. 
The Chichow-yao^ from the district of that name, corresponding with 

the present Luling district, in the department of Chi-an, Kiangnan 

province; both white and violet, the latter closely resembling the 

pots and saucers for growing sword grass," are translated by M. Julien "les plats 
sous le pied desquels on a peint un glaieul.". This misconception of the meaning 
has, as Doctor Hirth points out, led astray all later writers on porcelain and its marks, 
who have thus been led by Julien into describing the acorns as a mark, when found 
on the foot of a vessel of its being a Kiun (Chiin) piece of the finest quality. Doctor 
Hirth also draws attention to the fact that the expression t'u-ssii-wcn, translated 
by Julien when treating of one class of this porcelain as showing "veines imitant les 
soies (polls) du lievre," really means showing veining like the cuscuta or dodder — 
t'n-sna being the name of that plant. 

'S. W. Busheli, Chinese Porcelain before the Present Dynasty, No. 20, 30, 41, 79. 
S. Julien, L'Histoire et la Fabrication de la Porcelaine Chinoise, pp. 74, 75. F. Hirth, 
Ancient Chmese Porcelam, pp. 16, 17. 

■•'S. Juhen, op. cit., pp. 67-69; S. W. Busheli, op. cit., No. 70. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 329 

violet porcelain of Tingehow. The best was made l)y the family 
Shu; that produced In' the daughter. Shu C'hiao. realizing- almost as 
much as Ko-yao (the elder Chang's porcelain). Her large vases for 
holding- Howers would fetch several ounces of silver each. Regard- 
ing the violet variety, the technical annotator of M. Julien'swork 
adds the following note: ''II est probable que ces porcelaines vio- 
lettes etaient fabriquees Ti Tetat de biscuit, et colorees ensuite avec 
un email plombeux colore par le manganese. Cette consideration 
reporterait a Tannee 06<> de notre ere les glayures plombiferes; ce 
n'est qu'en 1283 qu'un potier de Schlestadt trouva le procede de 
vernir la poterie au moyen du plomb. et put creer une fabrication 
veritablement industrielle. " 

The Ilsiuchmo-yao and Ssuchoic-yao^ from the districts respectively of 
the same name in the Kiangnan province. They resembled the 
(white?) Tingchow porcelain, but were far inferior in quality. 

The T''ang-yi-yao and Tengchaic-yao, manufactured in the T'ang and 
Tengrhow districts of the department of Nayang. Honan province — 
both celadon, but, like the next, inferior to Juchow ware. 

The Yaochow-yao^ from the district of that name in the department of 
Hsi-an, Shansi province. They were originally celadon, but vases 
of white porcelain, possessed of considerable merit, though lacking 
in grace and strength, were subsequently produced. 

The Wmi '-yo<>. from the department of Chienning. Fukien province — a 
celadon made from black coarse clay, lacking in polish and with 
dr}^ looking glaze. 

The Ch!en-y<io, from the department of Chienchow. the present district 
of Chienyang, in the department of Chienning, Fukien province — 
thin, of pale black color and of high polish, it was highly esteemed; 
some specimens were studded with granulations resembling drops 
or yellow pearls. 

The Yuhmig-yao, from the Yiihang district, in the department of 
Hangchow, Chehkiang province — a kind of celadon, resembling 
Kvan-y(i(u but inferior, possessing neither the same crackle nor 
brilliancy. 

The Ll.shu!-yao. from Lishui district, in the department of Ch'uchow, 
Chehkiang province — heav}' and thick, resembling in color the 
Lungch'iian (that is, celadon) ware. l)ut far inferior to it.^ 

YUAN DYNASTY, 12(30 TO 1340. 

Under the Mongol dynasty, the Yiian (1260 to 1349), the manufac 
ture of porcelain generally appears to have retrograded. Exceptions, 
however, must at least be made iji favor of that produced for the 
special use of the Emperor. This ware — to judge from the specimens 

'S. Julien, L'histoire et la Fabrication de la Porcelaine Chinoise, pp. 12-21. 
NAT MUS 1900 2-1 



330 BEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

described by Hsiang Tzu-ching — was white in color, with the orna- 
mentation faintly engraved in the paste. Plates, bowls, etc., are said 
to have borne the characters sku-fu, "the palace," inscribed on the 
interior on the foot. Hsiang Tzu-ching^ says that this shu-fu porce- 
lain was copied from the Tingchow ware of the Northern Sung 
dynasty, and the vase in his own collection he considers altogether 
like a Ting piece in its form, in the color of the paste, and in the 
engraved design. 

The details given by native writers regarding the productions of 
this period are scanty in the extreme. They mention, however, that 
at Lungch'uan celadons were produced on the model of the Chang 
ware, but the clay used was coarse and dry, and failed to give the fine 
color which had characterized the older productions. 

At Ho-chow, in the Kiangnan province, P'eng Chiin-pao produced, 
as already stated, some excellent porcelain, known as New Ting-ijao 
and from the name of the district in which it was produced, Ho-yao or 
ware of Ho, and closely resembling the older ware from Tingchow. 
Made from fine, white, plastic clay, it was very thin and celadon in 
color. Other varieties mentioned are: 
The Hsuanchovj-yao^ from the department of that name in Kiangnan 

province, very thin and white in color. 
The Linch^iian-yao^ from the district of that name in the department 
of Fuchow, Kiangsi province, was a porcelain made from soft 
white clay. It was thin, and generally white, with a light yellow 
tinge; but some bore flowers coarsely painted. 
The Nanfmg-yao^ from the district of that name in the department of 
Chienchang, Kiangsi province, was a somewhat thick porcelain, 
in many cases ornamented with flowers in blue. These two latter 
kinds appear to have been very famous under the Yilan dynast}', 
and to have been much preferred to the productions of Chiugte- 
chen. 
The HutHen-yao^ manufactured in the neighborhood of Chingte-chen, 
was either a j^ello wish-black, or, if white, had a tint of that color. ^ 
No specimens of these wares have, however, so far as I am aware, 
survived to the present day, and among those which Chinese connois- 
seurs now declare to be red products of the Yiian dynasty one seldom 
sees any but such as are of a uniform whitish purple with deep red 
splashes. 

MING DYNASTY, 1368 TO 1649. 

Under the Ming dynasty the ceramic art made great progress, both 
in the fineness of the ware and in the excellence of the decorative 
workmanship. It would appear that under the Yiian dynasty imperial 

' S. W. Bushell, Chinese Porcelain before the Present Dynasty, No. 21. 

* S. Jiilien, L' Historic et la Fabrication de la Porcelaine Chinoise, pp. 23, 24, 86. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 331 

orders were not invariabl}' executed at the oovernmcnt factories, but 
were frequently intrusted to private enterprise. None, however, of 
the articles tendered was accepted unless considered perfect, and the 
test was so severe that as much as 90 per cent was at times rejected. 
Under the Ming dynasty, however, the manufacture appears to have 
been more and more restricted to the Chingte-chen factories, which 
thenceforward practically monopolized the production of artistic por- 
celain. The administration was reformed, and officers were dispatched 
from the capital with the orders, the execution of which they had to 
superintend, and on completion to deliver to the palace — duties which, 
like most others of emolument and dignit}', were absorbed by eunuchs 
during the reigns of the last emperors of that dynasty. 

In their paintings, which are alwa3\s in water color, the Chinese, 
while of course requiring on the artist's part a knowledge of the tech- 
nique adequate to a proper treatment of the subject chosen, admire 
chieiiy a boldness of stroke which proves complete mastery over the 
pencil, and a facility of conception which permits of improvisation, so 
to speak; that is, of the elaboration of the original design currente 
calamo^ and without having previously outlined a sketch of it upon the 
object to be decorated. This style of painting is termed J9^-^, "follow- 
ing the will of the brush." An artist who first sketches out his design 
and then carefully and elaborateh" fills in the details, a stj'le which is 
depreciatingly termed kung-% "mechanical," occupies in their estima- 
tion a ver}' subordinate position. And the characteristics of the two 
styles are so clearly defined, or at least are so patent to the practiced 
native eje, that a single glance almost suffices to enable a connoisseur 
to determine to which of the two a painting belongs. 

In a country, too, where painting as a profession does not exist, and 
where the interchange of fans or scrolls painted hj the donors, as one 
of the most ordinary forms of courtesy, generates, if not a profound 
knowledge of the art, at least a very general practical proficiency in 
it, it has resulted that the most noted artists are to be found among the 
class enjoying the most leisure — that formed of the successful competi- 
tors in the literar}" examinations which constitute the one entry to offi- 
cial emplo^anent. In this way the more highly esteemed style of paint- 
ing, with its bold free stroke, came to be considered (as indeed it prac- 
tically was) the almost exclusive production of the literary or official 
class. Hence when, during the Ch'enghua period, the decoration of 
porcelain in many colors came to be that most highly prized, it became 
customary to have the designs drawn b}' the most celebrated artists 
among the palace officials and to transmit them to the manufactory to 
be there executed b}^ the most skilled painters. 

Owing to the care thus exercised in obtaining decorative designs from 
the brushes of the best artists and in having them executed by the most 
able workmen, the manufacture reachecl a higher point of excellence 



332 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

during this (the Ch'enghua) period than at any other time during the 
Ming dynasty, and the steps of development which led to this result 
may ))e distinctl}' traced. 

As has been remarked earlier, decoration by painting in colors as dis- 
tinct from the general coloring imparted l)y glaze was, I believe, first 
reached under the Ming dynasty. In the Yunglo period (14:03 to 1424) 
it took the form of decoration in blue under the glaze. Special atten- 
tion was paid to this style during the Hsiiante period (1-126 to 1435), 
and owing probably to the adoption of a special kind of foreign blue 
(known in Chinese as Su-ni-po^ which appears to have been obtainable 
during this period alone), a brilliancy of color was attained which was 
never afterwards quite equaled. At the same time, however, a brilliant 
red color attracted universal admiration. At first this was used hy itself 
either as a uniform coloring over the outside of bowls and cups, or for 
the delineation of fishes or peaches upon the white ground, the contrast 
of the two colors, both striking in brilliancy, being highly admired. 
Then a form was adopted which, while it gave due prominence to the 
highly prized crimson, admitted of the introduction of other colors in 
a subordinate capacity, such as vessels in the shape of persimmons 
{Dmyji/ros kaki) on a leafy branch forming the handle, the fruit being 
red, and the leaves and stalk of their natural colors, green of various 
shades and brown respectively. From this form of decoration it 
required but a step to reach the use of the enamel colors for which 
the Ch'enghua period (1465 to 1487) is famous. 

The use of enamel colors continued during the Hungchih period (1488 
to 1505), some of the specimens being scarcely inferior to th-e best 
pieces of Ch'enghua ware, but gradually gave way in public favor to 
a pale yellow glaze covering an ornamentation engraved in the paste. 
This was also the most highly esteemed production of the Ch'engte 
period (1506 to 1521); though the efforts to obtain further supplies of 
blue from the west being crowned with success, a revival in favor of 
"blue and white" (;hina took place during this and especially the fol- 
lowing reign till the supply was once more exhausted. 

Peculation, misgovernment and its attendant disorders, and an 
increasing difficulty in finding the finer qualities of clay combined to 
cause a steady decline from this period onward in the artistic excellence 
of the porcelain produced. The rapidity of the downward course was con- 
siderably accelerated by the enormous extent of the imperial orders 
for the supply of the palace, which, sometimes aggregating 100,000 
pairs of articles on a single occasion, taxed the resources of the gov- 
ernment factories beyond their strength, with the result that, in order 
to economize money and labor, colors which were expensive or difficult 
to procure were replaced by others less costly and more simple in 
their ingredients, and artistic beauty and excellence of workmanship 
were sacrificed to promptness in providing the supplies ordered. It 
is th6 gradual dispersion of the articles comprised in the vast orders 



CEBAMIC ART IN CHINA. 333 

issued durinji- the Lunjrch'ing- (15H7 to 1572) and Wanli (1573 to 1619) 
periods that has provided the bulk of the specimens in the possession 
of modern collectors of what has come to be considered (though, in view 
of the much higher artistic merit of the ware produced under earlier 
eiuperors, very unfairly considered) the characteristic Ming* porcelain, 
porcelain somewhat coarse in make, fault}" in shape, and decorated 
with paintings which, though characterized })y boldness of design, are 
usually marked l)y want of care in execution. 

While, however, the work of the government factories showed these 
unmistakable signs of decadence, strenuous efforts were made b}' a 
few isolated private manufacturers to raise the art to its earlier level 
of excellence. The imitations b}" Chou Tan-ch'iian of the beautiful 
old Tingchow ware, and the cups of Hao Shih-chi of a "'dewy -dawn 
red" and of eggshell (the latter at times only weighing one-fortieth 
of an ounce apiece), are spoken of in terms of the highest admiration, 
and brought fabulous prices. But though these efforts were, if the 
statements of Chinese writers can be relied upon, crowned with com- 
plete success, so far as the artist's individual productions were con- 
cerned, they were inadequate to prevent the downward tendency 
exerted by the government establishments at Chingte-chen, which had 
already for a long while almost monopolized the production of porce- 
lain in China. 

During the remainder of the period that the Ming dynasty held the 
throne its energies were so much occupied in endeavoring to suppress 
internal disorder and in resisting the attacks of the Manchu Tartars 
on it« northern frontiers that no attention was paid to the ceramic art. 

From 1403 to 1424. 

During the Yunglo period (1403 to 1421:) much white porcelain, with 
ornamentation in blue under the glaze, commonl}^ known in Europe as 
"blue and white china," Avas manufactured, which holds third place in 
regard to excellence among this class of ware produced during the 
Ming dynasty, that of the Hsiiante period (1-126 to 1435) occupying the 
first and that of the Ch'enghua period (1465 to 1487) the second place. 
The blue employed is said, in the annals of Fouliang, to have been 
brought from some Mohammedan country as tribute, and was thence 
known as Mohammedan ]>lue. During the Yunglo and Hsiiante periods 
it was termed Su-//u(-/i or SH-hia-n/h\u.e, andduring the latter aSh-h/'-j/o 
also. Where this blue came from and whether these Chinese designa- 
tions are the reproductions of the name of a country or of a color has 
never been determined. Doctor Hirth. while pointing out the resem- 
blance of the former in sound to smalt (medijcval Latin xz/ta/tia/t). and 
of the latter to Schneeberg, "under which name the Saxon blue after- 
wards became famous all over the world," ' thinks a search into Araljian 



' F. Hirth, Ancient Chinese Porcelain, p. 65. 



334 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

or Persian records of that day may yet supply the missing explanation. 
Whatever it was, the supply was exhausted during the Ch'enghua 
period. Somewhat later, however (during the Chengte period, 1606 to 
1521), Tatang, the governor of Yunnan province, succeeded in obtain- 
ing further supplies of Mohammedan blue b}^ paying for it twice its 
weight in gold; and during this and the greater part of the subsequent 
reign (Chiuching period, 1522 to 156(5) it continued available— a fact to 
which is doubtless attributable the excellent color of the productions 
of that time. Tow^ards the close of the latter reign, however, the sup- 
pi}' again gave out, when an incinerated cobaltiferous ore of manga- 
nese (termed wu-ming-t) replaced the western product; the color 
obtained from this native ore, far from equaling the brightness and 
transparency of the foreign blue, however, showed a dull and heavy tint 
after baking. 

EGGSHELL PORCELAIN. 

Eggshell porcelain of ver}' delicate workmanship was produced, but 
owing to its extreme fragility good specimens are now difficult to 
obtain. It appears also to have had a tendency to crack during the 
process of firing. These porcelains are termed among the Chinese 
t^'o-fai^ or porcelain from which the "embr}^©" or biscuit has been 
removed, and are divided into two classes: "True ^'(9-^'«^,'' ^^ very 
thin, also known as eggshell {tan-p''i or luan-imi)^ and "semi t^o-f'ai^'' 
the somewhat thicker. The true f'o-f'ai especially present great diffi- 
culties in the manufacture and require extraordinary dexterity in the 
handling, for so thin is the portion of the body the workman allows to 
remain that it seems as though all had been removed; and it is only 
quite recently that the Government manufactory at Sevres has succeeded 
in producing such porcelain, and then by an entirely diiferent process — 
by casting or moulage en harbotine. 

The work translated by M. Julien states that while the production of 
this ware originated during the Yunglo period, it was only the thicker 
variet}^ that was then made, and that the true t''o-t^al dates from a later 
epoch, having been produced during the Ch'enghua period (1465 to 1187) 
at the government manufactory and during the Lungch'ing (1567 to 1572) 
and Wanli (1573 to 1619) periods at private factories. This statement 
appears, however, to be erroneous; for in No. 295 of this collection will 
be found a specimen, so at least Chinese experts state, of the serai t''o-t''ai 
(though it seems difficult to believe that a bowl of such size could be 
made nmch thinner and yet be of practical utility), and in Nos. 289 to 
291 specimens of the true t''o-t''ai^ both having the inscription Yung-lo- 
nien-c?dh, "Made during the Yunglo period," engraved in the old seal 
character on its foot. Moreover, the one specimen of this ware described 
by Hsiang Tzu-chiug is a small cup "as thin as paper," called t''o-t''ai^ 
"bodyless,"^. 6., true f" o-t''ai, not SQmi f'o-t^ai^ of which he saj's "there 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 335 

are not a few of these wine cups left, yet they are highly appreciated 
by eollectors of taste." ^ Specimens of the Ch'enghua eggshell will be 
found in Nos. 296 to 303. 

In spite of the extreme thinness of this ware, many specimens — such 
as Nos. 289 to 294, already referred to — are adorned with ver^^ elabo- 
late designs engraved under the glaze (an operation requiring excep- 
tional delicac}- of workmanship), which are scarcely visible unless the 
vessel be held against the light or be filled with liquid; These speci- 
mens possess additional interest from the fact that they enable us to 
picture to ourselves what the porcelain manufactured for the special 
use of the palace under the Yiian dynasty (the Shu-fu) and the Ting- 
chow ware of the Sung dynasty were like; though, of course, these 
latter had not the thinness and delicacy of the eggshell porcelain. 
For Hsiang Tzu-ching, after describing a specimen of Shu-fu porce- 
lain decorated with dragons in the midst of clouds and with lion's head 
handles, all faintly engraved in the paste under a white glaze, states 
that "the porcelain of our own dynasty (the Ming) of the reigns of 
Yunglo and Hsiiante, decorated with patterns engraved under a w hite 
glaze, was made after this Shu-fa porcelain, which was itself copied 
from the Tingchou porcelain of the northern Sung dynasty."^ 

From 1426 to 1435. 

Among the porcelain manufactured during the Hsiiante period (1426 
to 1435), that covered with crimson glaze or bearing designs in that 
color holds the highest place in the eyes of Chinese connoisseurs. " It 
truly stands preeminent among the celebrated porcelains of different 
dynasties, a precious jewel of our own times,'' saj^s Hsiang Tzu-ching. 
Some of the descriptions left by this author are worth reproducing. (1) 
An incense burner from an old bronze design. ''The upper two-thirds of 
the body and the handles, which are molded in the form of fish, are 
covered with a deep red glaze of rosy dawn tint, the lower part 
enameled white, pure as driven snow, the two colors mingling in a 
curved line, dazzling the ej^es.'' (2) A wine pot (6i inches high), copied 
from a similar vessel of carved jade used bv the emperor. " The body, 
slender below, swelling towards the top, is decorated with engraved 
cloud scrolls and bands of geometrical and spiral pattern, with conical 
cover, spirally curved handle, and spout moulded and engraved in the 
form of a phojnix head, all covered with deep-red {cJt i h ung) glaze. '' It 
is said to have cost the owner 200 ingots of silver in paper notes, a 
sum Doctor Bushell estimates to be equivalent to about £600. 

Another stj^le of decoration much esteemed at the time for open 
vessels was ''three red fish on a white ground pure as driven snow, 
the fish boldly outlined and red as fresh blood, of a brilliant color 

^ S. W. Bushell, Chinese Porcelam before the Present Dynasty, No. 61. 
=* Idem, No. 21. 



336 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

dazzling the eyes." Occasional!}" these fish would be represented on 
the outside swimming on waves engraved in the paste, with two more 
on the inside. Though no less than four vessels so decorated are 
described b}" Hsiang Tzii-ching, they are stated to have been even 
then "precious specimens of this rare kind of porcelain" — they are 
certainly so now. 

A rarer kind of decoration still was three pairs of peaches in red on 
a white ground — of these "oulv two or three were then known to 
exist within the four seas," that is, the Empire. 

A still rarer decoration, found on a wine cup, is described as "the 
white ground decorated inside and outside with cloud scrolls engraved 
in the paste, a scroll border above colored crimson: the handle a 
dragon of bold design moulded in high relief coiled round the top, 
with teeth and four claws fixed in the rim, enamelled vermilion red." 
(Vessels with a dragon moulded in relief upon the brim are, it may be 
added, always highly esteemed by the Chinese when intact, partly 
because of the artistic ability required to successful^ execute the 
design, and partl}^ because old specimens are seldom met with undam- 
aged.) "Only one or two of these beautiful little cups remain 
throughout the Empire, and 100 taels ($150 gold) is not considered too 
much to pay for a specimen." Hsiang Tzii-ching states that the bril- 
lianc}" of this crimson glaze was obtained l)y the 'addition of powdered 
red gems from the west to the ordinary materials. Doctor Bushell, 
commenting upon this statement, says "this is impossible, and the 
colors being painted on under the glaze shows it to have been a copper 
silicate, the same doubtless that gave the bright red {Jisien hung) to 
the monochromes of the period."^ M, Julien states that among the 
colors for porcelain painting brought from China by M. Itier (an 
employe in the ministry of finance, who accompanied the French 
ambassador to that country) and presented in 18-M to the manufactory 
at Sevres, was one na.nied p((o-s/ii7i-kung, "precious stone red," which 
when analyzed by M. Salvetat proved to be merely "oxyde de fer 
avec du fondant."^ 

A decoration first met with in the productions of this period is 
obtained by the entire excision of a delicate pattern, by some sharp 
instrument, from the biscuit of which the cup or bowl is formed. 
When the vessel is dipped in the glaze, the latter fills up the excised 
open work with a thin film sufficientl}' thick after baking to retain the 
liquid in the cup, though so thin that the pattern is thrown out as a 
transparency upon the more opaque body. This decoration is com 
monly known among English collectors as "lace-work," and the 
French term pieces so decorated reticules. 

*S. W. Bushell, Chinese Porcelain before the Present Dynasty, Nos. 6, 10, 40, 54, 
56, 58, 60, 69, 71, and p. 117. 
'■'S. Julien, L'Histoire et la Fabrication de la Porcelaine Chinoise, p. 91. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 337 



From 1465 to 1487. 



Durincr the Ch'enghua period (1405 to 1487) the production of porce- 
lain bearing a blue decoration under the glaze continued, but owing 
chiefly to the fact that the supply of Su-ni-j)o blue from abroad was 
exhausted and partly from the growing preference for ornamentation 
in enamel colors, this ware was inferior in color to that of the Hsiiante 
period; and it is for the decoration in enamel colors that this period is 
chiefly and justly famous. 

One authority states that among the productions of this period are 
the most beautiful of wine cups, the upper part of which is adorned 
with a Chinese peony {Pceotiia moutan) and having at the base a hen and 
-chickens full of life and movement.^ Hsiang Tzu-ching thus describes 
a pair: 

They are of rounded form, swelling below, so thin and delicate that one weighs 
less than a third of an ounce. The eockcombs, narcissus, and other flowers, the fly- 
ing dragon fly and crawling mantis, painted after life, in green, yellow, and crimson 
enamel. These are choice specimens of the wine cups of this celebrated reign, and 
are valued at 100 taels [say |150] the pair, yet now even for this money it is impos- 
sible to get them.^ 

Another miniature wine cup described by him is said to have been 
purchased for 60 ounces of silver ($90), while a pair in the possession 
of one of the high officers of the court under the Emperor Wanli is 
said by another writer to have been valued at 1,000 ounces, or $1,500. 
Whatever may be thought of the last statement, the prices mentioned 
b}' Hsiang Tzii-ching are fulh^ confirmed by contemporary writers. 
The Treatise on Pottery (the T'ao-shuo) quotes from a work written 
towards the end of the Ming dynasty as follows: 

On the days of new moon and of full moon I often went, while at the capital, to 
the fair at the Buddist temple Tz'u-en-ssu, where rich men thronged to look at the 
old porcelain bowls exhibited there. Plain white cups of Wanli porcelain were sev- 
eral ounces of silver each, those with the marks of Hsiiante and Ch'enghua were 
twice as much more, up to the tiny cups decorated with flghting cocks, which could 
not be bought for less than a hundred ounces of the purest silver, pottery being 
valued far more highly than precious jade.' 

From the time of the Emperor Wanli it was the endeavor of every 
man of taste, whose wealth could support such a strain, to set wine cups 
of Ch'enghua ware before his guests. Considering how many pieces of 
this choice porcelain must have been thus sacrificed, it is not surprising 
that it is almost impossible to procure specimens at the present day — 
nearly three hundred years after they were selling at twelve times 
their weight in gold — though Doctor Bushell states that "one may be 
occasionally seen in a Chinese collection preserved in an ebony box 

* S. Julien, L' Histoire et la Fabrication de la Porcelaine Chinoise, p. 94. 
^S. W. Bushell, Chinese Porcelain before the Present Dynasty, No. 59. 
' Quoted by Bushell, p. 98. 



338 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

softly lined with padded silk." Four specimens of these cups are con- 
tained in the collection— Nos. 300 to 303. 

From this period also are supposed to date many of the large vases 
which form so prominent a feature in the European collections, dec- 
orated with historical scenes, in the coloring of which green plays so 
large a part, and which have in consequence been termed b}^ French 
writers "la famille verte." They are really, however, more modern. 
"The finest," as Doctor Bushell truly remarks, "belong to the reign 
of K'anghsi, so that one of a pair is often found with a Ming mark 
beneath, the other with a censer, flower, or other emblem (of the 
K'anghsi period); yet some connoisseurs pride themselves on being 
able to distinguish the genuine Ming in this class from the false, con- 
fessing, however, that it is a difficult matter."^ 

This period is also noted for its eggshell porcelain. It was not, 
however, invented at this time, but, as we have already shown, first 
manufactured during the Yunglo period. The four small plates of 
this ware (Nos. 296 to 299) are worthy of special note, not only for 
their extreme thinness and transparency, but for the very unusual style 
of their decoration — landscapes in enamel colors above the glaze. 

From 1488 to 1505. 

During the succeeding period (Hungchih, 1488 to 1505), while enamel 
colors were still used, a very pale yellow glaze of the color of a newly 
husked chestnut was the tint most highly prized, the two kinds of 
decoration being at times combined. If the uniform yellow glaze was 
employed, ornamentation would be at times engraved in the paste or 
molded in relief beneath it. So little is said regarding the ware of 
this period by Chinese authors that it is worth while recording the 
descriptions of two choice specimens given by Hsiang Tzu-ching: 
(1) A wine pot "molded in the form of a gourd contracted in the mid- 
dle, the brown stalk forming the handle of the cover, a winding branch 
the tapering handle, from which spring green tendrils and leaves 
and a miniature gourd, all worked in relief in the yellow body, a second 
miniature gourd being fashioned into the spout. Light yellow was 
the color most highly valued in this reign, but enamelling in color was 
also employed, as in this piece, which reminds one of the porcelain of 
the reign of Ch'enghua; " (2) a teacup "in the form of a hibiscus flower, 
covered outside with a delicate yellow glaze imitating the natural tint 
of the flow^er; white inside. 1 have seen many specimens of Hungchih 
porcelain, but nothing to surpass these little cups."^ 

^S. W. Bushell, Chinese Porcelain before the Present Dynasty, p. 99. 
^ Idem, Nos. 7, 42, 46, 66. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 339 



From 1506 to 1521. 



During the Chengte period (1506 to 1521), so far as the meager de- 
tails c-hrouicled allow us to judge, while decoration in enamel colors 
continued and the successful endeavors of the governor of Yunnan to 
obtain further supplies of ]\Iohammedan blue caused attention to be 
again turned to the production of porcelain ornamented with designs 
in blue under the glaze, the ware most highh^ prized was that covered 
with a yellow glaze, introduced under the previous reign, over patterns 
engraved in the paste, and a red monochrome termed ehl-Jaing. This 
term appears to have included two shades — one ^^ ])ao-shih-liung ^ or 
"precious-stone red" already discussed under the Hsiiante period, 
(p. 335). and the hsien-hmg^ a bright red, produced by a silicate of 
copper. This color, the Chinese records state, could not be success- 
fully produced subsequent to this period under the Ming dynasty, 
owing seemingly to inabilit}" to maintain a suitable condition of atmos- 
phere in the kiln^a difficulty explained hj M. Salvetat thus: 

Si ratinosphere du four est trop reductrice, le cuivre passe a I'etat de cuivre metal- 
lique; si I'atmosphere du four est trop oxydante, la coloration rouge disjiarait et la 
couverte devient verddtre {Recueil des travaux scientifiques de M. Ebelmen, Tome I, p. 
437) ; le protoxj^de de cuivre seul donne un silicate d'une couleur rouge. ^ 

A curious kind of earthenware is mentioned by Hsiang Tzu-ching as 
having been produced in the Yi-hsing district, of the department of 
Changehou, Kiangsu province, by a celebrated potter named Kung 
Ch'un. Teapots of this ware were of a light brown like felt, or covered 
with a vermilion-red glaze. In either case the color is said to have 
changed to a bright green when tea was poured in, and to have gradu- 
all}^ reverted to its original color, line by line, as the liquid was poured 
out. This curious peculiarity is said to have been merely the acci- 
dental result of some change eli'ected by baking, but was highlj^ 
prized by collectors — 500 ounces of silver ($750) having been paid for 
the two specimens described by our author.*^ 

From 1522 to 1566. 

During the Chiaching period (1522 to 1566) the yellow glaze, so par- 
ticularly affected during the two previous reigns, appears to have been 
entirel}', and decoration in enamel colors to have been almost entirely, 
a])andoned, the old stj'le of ornamentation in blue under the glaze 
being chiefly admired, till the supply of that color from the west was 
again exhausted during the later j^ears of this reign; and to the pres- 
ent day the " blue and white" of this period is much sought after by 
collectors. Apart from this, the only kind of ware at all remarkable 

' S. Julien, L'Histoire et la Fabrication de la Porcelaine Chinoise, p. 97. S. W. 
Bushell, Chinese Porcelain before the Present Dynasty, Nos. 52, 78. 
- S. W. Bushell, Idem, Nos. 44, 45. 



840 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

mentioned bj' Chinese writers is cups intended for use upon the palace 
altars, and hence termed tan-cJum^ which are said to have resembled 
white jade and to have been exceptionally beautiful. One maker, 
named Ts'ui, who is stated to have lived during this and the following 
reio"n, is however mentioned as a successful imitator of the porcelain of 
the Hsiiante and Ch'enghua periods, his productions being known as 
Ts'ui-kung yao-tz'% " Mr. Ts'ui's porcelain ware."^ 

From 1567 to 1619. 

During the Lungching (1567 to 1572) and Wanli (1573 to 1619) 
periods it appears to have been difficult to obtain supplies of good 
clav; and this fact, combined with the increasing disorder throughout 
the Empire and the enormous extent of the supplies ordered for palace 
use, caused a marked deterioration in the quality of the ware produced, 
though the workmanship is at times highl}^ spoken of, especially in the 
case of porcelain decorated in enamel colors — the most highly prized 
having marks on them resembling "millet grains," or a surface marked 
as with the pittings on orange peel {Vapparcmce chagrinee d'^une peau 
d"" orange). 

While, however, the productions of the government factories were 
marked b}^ an ever-increasing decadence, serious efforts were made by 
private producers to stay the downward tendency, and two individuals 
would seem to have won for themselves and their ware a very high 
reputation. Chou Tan-ch'iian, a native of Wumen, imitated the ancient 
masterpieces of Tinchow porcelain so successf ull}^ that the most expert 
connoisseurs failed, it is said, to detect the fraud, and willingly pur- 
chased them at such enormous sums as 1,000 ounces of silver each 
($1,500). Another maker, of unknown origin, but whose name tradi- 
tion says was Hao Shih-chiu, made cups of "liquid-dawn tint," bright 
as vermilion, and of egg-shell of a beautiful brilliant white, and weigh- 
ing in some cases only just over half a penn}" weight, or about one- 
fortieth of an ounce, for which extravagant prices were paid. This all 
sounds, however, much exaggerated. Other productions of his were 
celadon vases resem]>ling Kuan-yao, or the elder Chang's ware (Ko-yao), 
except that they were not crackled, and vases of a color which the 
French tevrnfeiulle-morte, or fond Icujae., a brown or coffee tint, derived 
from ferruginous clay. This artist was known as Ilu-hung., "Mr. 
Pots," or Hu-yln-tao-jen., "the Taoist hidden in a pot," apparently 
pseudonyms adopted T)y him in allusion to an old legend preserved in 
the /Shen-/isien-e/iu(t n , an ancient work on Taoist immortals, and signed 
his jars with the mark Jlu-yln-lao-jen, "the old man hidden in the 
pot." According to the legend, Hu-kung, the Old Man of the Pot, 
was a magician, endowed with marvelous powers of healing, who lived 

^S. Julien, L'Histoire et la Fabrication de la Porcelaine Chinoise pp. 97, 100. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 841 

during the third and fourth centuries, and was accustomed to distribute 
in charity the vast sums he received in payment for his miraculous 
cures. Ke disappeared each night from mortal view, his retreat 
remaining a mystery till he was watched, when it was discovered that 
the leech Avas accustomed to withdraw at sunset to the interior of a 
hollow gourd which hung from a doorpost. Julien translated these 
characters as le vieillard oh qui vlt dans la retralte; but. says Doctor 
Ilirth. '"it seems to me that these four characters have rather an epi- 
granunatic sense, and if translated into Latin would be among the 
most delicious of Martial's Apophoreta; for the ' old man,' as the clever 
maker styles himself, "is concealed in the pot.' like the fairy Hu-kung 
was in his, and although invisil)le, he himself — that is, his inventive 
genius — is contained in it. It impresses me as the most sympathetic 
device a ceramic artist could select as a mark."^ 

TRESENT DYNASTY, 1644 TO DATE. 

The factories at Chingte-chen, which had been closed during the last 
years of the ]\Iing dynast}^, were not reopened till the Manchu emper- 
ors had tirnily seated themselves upon the throne — during the reign of 
K'anghsi (A. D. 1662 to 1722). He and his two successors, Yungcheng 
(1723 to 1735) and Chienlung (1736 to 1795), while maintaining the 
qualities which had enabled their race to gain its high position, at once 
adopted the civilization of the conquered nation. No less eminent as 
scholars and statesmen than as able generals, loving the magnificent 
but no less aiming at practical utility, they set vigorously to work to 
reform those portions of the theoreticall}- admirable system of govern- 
ment which had been allowed to fall into decay, to improve and beautify 
the capital and its palaces, to diHuse education and to encourage the 
fine arts. The factories at Chingte-chen were not slow to feel the effects 
of this change of system. The kilns increased rapidly in number, till 
at the date of P. d'Entrecolles' letters, they aggregated over three 
hundred in full activitv, the fires of which at night so illuminated the 
hills surrounding the plain in which the town stands, that it seemed as 
some vast city abandoned to the flames, and over a million souls found 
a means of livelihood in its busy streets. The production was not char- 
acterized by activity alone, however. The ablest artists were employed 
to paint and to design ornamentation, to enhance the l>eauty of which 
they at times availed themselves of foreign ideas; odes from the emperor's 
pen were reproduced upon vases in facsimile, or short extracts were 
introduced as subjects for illustration; vases and cups were specially 
ordered to confer upon distinguished personages, their achievements 
being epitomized in the paintings which decorated these precious heir- 
looms (No. 169); the workmen and decorative artists were educated to 

^F. Hirth, Ancient Chinese Porcelain, j). 72. S. .Tulien, L'Histoire et la Fal)rication 
de la Porcelaine Chinoise, pp. 99, 103, 104, 206. 



342 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

a higher level of proficiency; and the direction of the factories was con- 
fided to officers who were known to be possessed of the knowledge 
requisite for such a position. Progress was sure and rapid; and during 
the seventy-five years between 1698 and 1773 — comprising roughl}' the 
latter half of K'anghsi's reign, the whole of Yungcheng's, and rather 
more than half thjit of Chienlung — the manufacture and decoration of 
porcelain in China attained a degree of excellence which in my opinion 
has never been reached, either before or since. 

During the early part of K'anghsi's reign (1662 to 1722) green was, 
as it had been among the later productions of the Ming dynasty — dur- 
ing the Lunghch 'ing and Wanli periods of 1567 to 1619 — the predominat- 
ing color employed in decoration, such porcelain being hence termed la 
famille verte; and to this period belongs, in part, much of the ware 
so decorated," which is usually ascribed to the earlier dynasty and is 
considered a characteristic Ming porcelain. To the colors applied 
under the glaze was now added a blue above glaze, which does not 
seem to have been known under the Mings. During the later j^ears 
of this reign, however, green gave waj^ to red as the predominating 
color, and a style of decoration was adopted wiiich has been classed by 
M. Jacquemart and subsequent writers under the title of la famille rose. 
It is easily distinguished by its half tints and broken colors, having 
for decorative basis a carmine red lowered to pale rose, and obtained 
from gold, which is called in Europe purple of Cassius. The addition 
to their palette of this color, of 3^el]ow derived from antimon}^ and of 
white from arsenical acid, enabled Chinese artists to considerably 
increase the varietj^ and beauty of their decorations. A director of 
the government factories named Ts'ang Ying-hsiian is mentioned by 
Chinese writers as having about this time gained considerable distinc- 
tion b}^ his productions, which were of thin porcelain, covered with a 
brilliant, and, in the most highly valued specimens, monochrome glaze. 
The colors are stated to have been "snake-skin green," ''mud-eel yel- 
low," blue, and dappled yellow. Other, but less esteemed, colors were 
pale yellow, pale violet, pale green, and blue or red, both souffle. 

From 1723 to 1796. 

Shortly after the accession of Yungcheng, Nien Hsi-yao was, in 1727, 
intrusted with the direction of the imperial manufactories. He per- 
sonally selected the materials and superintended the execution of the 
Emperor's orders. All the articles made by him — which are known as 
Nien porcelain, nlen-yao — were graceful in form and of fine workman- 
ship. They were chiefly monochrome in color, blue, bright and carmine 
reds, celadons, and "of egg color as bright as silver," but some were 
ornamented with painted flowers, cither incised or plain. Some of the 
monochrome vases, dating from this or a slightly later period, have 
lately obtained an extraordinary vogue among foreign collectors 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 343 

and bring- prices ridiculously above any value to which they could 
justly la}' claim on the .score of either rarity, color, or Avorkmanship. 
A small vase only S inches high, of a dull white-pink shade upon an 
underground of pale sea-green, which has been dignified by the name 
of "peach blow" (in some specimens this underground forces itself 
into notice in the form of splotches on the pink), was offered to the 
writer in Pekin for less than $200 gold, and, having been purchased b}'^ 
a foreign dealer, was eventually sold in New York for $15,000. With 
Nien Hsi-yao was associated in the management a year later a Man- 
chu officer in the lord chamberlain's office named T'angying, who 
fifteen years later succeeded to the sole direction. Possessing an inti- 
mate knowledge of the different varieties of cla}' and of the effects of 
fire upon them and on colors, he exercised the greatest care in the 
choice of materials, and every article made under his orders was 
remarkable for delicacy of workmanship, purit}' of form, and brilliance 
of coloring. He imitated with wonderful precision the most beautiful 
of the ancient designs, and his efforts at reproducing the most cele- 
brated glazes were crowned with equal success. In addition, he is 
credited with the invention of several new styles of decoration, of which 
the most remarkable were: The use of European blues and violets, a 
ground of enamel black, white flowers or designs in gold upon a black 
ground, the French method of painting, and the yao-pien or flamhe 
style. In a word, "under his direction," Chinese writers state, "the 
products of the imperial factories attained their highest perfection.^" 

The work translated hy M. Julien distinctly states that the introduc- 
tion of the black grounds dates from the earh' part of Chienlung's 
reign. Treating, as this work does, of events of such comparatively 
recent occurrence, its reliability would at first glance seem scarcely 
open to doubt. I am, however, strongly of opinion that the statement 
is erroneous, and that black grounds originated some decades earlier. 
I have seen specimens which, the black ground apart, have all the 
characteristics of the K'anghsi period, and far inferior in delicacy of 
execution to specimens which were undoubtedly manufactured under 
the direction of T'angying, such as No. 93 of this collection. The 
accurac}^ of the statement in other respects is, however, confirmed by 
experience. The use of violet, or of magenta with a violet tone, with 
most happ\" effect, especialh^ for grounds, is one of the characteristics 
of this period, while the best blues fully equal anything in that color 
produced during the best periods of the Mings. 

Special attention, as has been seen, was also paid at this time to the 
production of yao-pien., of which Chinese writers distinguish three 
kinds — two due to celestial agenc}'; one, the_/i?f//>//^ef glaze, to human inge- 
nuity. As regards the latter, oxydulated copper, it is well known, fur- 
nishes vitrifiable painting with a fine red. This, thrown in a body on a 

' S. Julien, L'Histoire et la Fabrication de la Porcelaine Chinoise, pp. 108 et seq. 



344 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

va.so, forms the tint called haricot, a kind of fawn color; with a further 
quantity of oxygen of equal amount a protoxide is formed, producing a 
beautiful green, that may be changed into sky-blue by increasing the 
oxygenation. The tints upon a vase may thus be modified almost indefi- 
nitely by a due regulation at different periods during the process of 
baking of the currents of air admitted. " When a clear fire placed in a 
strong current draws a considerable column of air, all the oxygen is not 
consumed, and part of it combines with the metal; if, on the other hand, 
thick smoke is introduced into the furnace, of which the carbonaceous 
mass, greedy of oxj'gen, absorbs everywhere this gas, necessary for 
its combustion, the oxides will be destroyed and the metal completely 
restored. Placed at a given moment in these given conditions, by the 
rapid and simultaneous introduction of currents of air and of sooty 
vapors the haricot glaze assumes a most picturesque appearance ; the 
whole surface of the piece becomes diapered with veins and streaked 
colorations, changing and capricious as the flame of spirits, the red 
ox3'dulate, passing by violet into pale blue and to the green protoxide, 
evaporates itself even completely upon certain projections, which 
become white, and thus furnishes happy accidental combinations."^ 
The supernatural changes are either of color, as when a piece of porce- 
lain is taken from the kiln having developed a patch of some new color 
in a natural shape, or of form, "as when some unusually large slabs 
were requisitioned bj' one of the Ming emperors, which were trans- 
formed into beds and boats, with equipage complete, and forthwith 
broken up by the startled potters, as gravely reported by the official 
in charge b}^ wa}' of excuse for their absence."' In the Buddhist tem- 
ple Pao-kuo-ssu in Pekin is a famous yao-pien image of Yuanj'in, a 
finely designed figure enamelled in colors, light blue, crimson, yellow, 
and two shades of brown; of which, in an ode from his pen engraved 
on the shrine, the Emperor Chienlung saj^s the goddess descended into 
the kiln to fashion an exact likeness of herself. 

The reference to the introduction to "the French method of painting" 
is of so interesting a nature as to merit more detailed consideration. 

The Jesuit missionaries of the seventeenth century gained for them- 
selves a position of dignit}' and influence beside the Dragon throne such 
as no foreigner before or since has succeeded in attaining. This posi- 
tion, and a tolerance which saw nothing incompatible with the Catholic 
religion in the cherished observance of the Chinese — in the payment 
of official honors to the sage Confucius and in the performance of 
certain rites in honor of ancestors erroneously termed "ancestral wor- 
ship" — caused a remarkable spread of Catholicism, which, owing to 
the labors of Father Ricci and his successors, had already established 
itself under the Ming dynasty, counting among its members many 

' Jacqueiuart, History of the Ceramic Art, translated by Mrs. Palliser, p. 50. 
''S. W. Bushell, Letter in North China Herald, May 12, 1888. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 345 

officials and the consort of the hist of the line, who proclaimed himself 
emperor in the Kwangtiing (Canton) province. But Pope Clement XI's 
bull Ex Ulii dl(\ confirming an earlier bull on the same subject dated 
the 4th Noveml^er. 1704, b}- deciding that these observances were 
incompatible with Catholic belief, aroused violent anger on the part of 
the Emperor K'anghsi and dealt a blow to the missions from which 
they have never recovered. The Emperor died before the legate 
specially sent to China to carry out the bull could perform his promise 
to endeavor to persuade the Pope to modifv its terms; and decrees of 
great severitv were issued against Christianity by his successors, 
Yungcheng and Chienlung, to which Pope Benedict XIV replied in 
1742, by issuing a bull deciding this unfortunate question in its nar- 
rowest sense. The severity of the imperial decree was, however, 
mitigated in favor of the missionaries at court — at first Jesuits, and 
after the dissolution of that order Lazarists; and a European divine 
continued to be a director of the board of astronomy down to 1814. 

The influential position occupied by the Jesuits was both won and 
maintained chiefly by their high attainments in astronomy, in mathe- 
matics, and in geometry. It, however, enabled these able and enlight- 
ened representatives of western learning to exercise a considerable 
degree of influence upon other matters not directly connected with the 
studies for which the}' were chiefly famous, but in which their scientific 
education gave them the power and right to speak with authority. 
When, therefore, contemporaneously with the enjoyment by them of 
this position of influence, a style of decoration was adopted for porce- 
lain and enamels for both imperial and general use purely European in 
its character — not only in the more intimate acquaintance, as compared 
with previous native drawing, of the laws of perspective displayed, but 
even in the reproduction of European dress and figures and eminently 
European scenes and pastimes — it seemed that this could scarceh' be 
mere coincidence. It was more natural to suppose that under the direc- 
tion of one of these able missionaries a school had been established in 
connection with the government porcelain factories for instruction in 
European designs, in European ideas of grouping floral ornamentation, 
and in the European style of painting general^. Pere d'EntrecoUes, 
it is true, makes no alkision in his famous letters to such a school. 
But, as the}" were written for the purpose of enlightening the west 
regarding the composition of the materials and the system of manu- 
facture employed b}- the Chinese, the use of European designs in the 
decoration of porcelain might well have been passed over in silence, 
and the absence of such reference would not necessarily prove that 
such a school had not existed. 

The supposition that some of the Jesuits were at this time more or less 
intimately associated with the niaiuifacture and decoration of porcelain 
was supported b}- the belief, which is still current among Chinese 
NAT MUS 1900 25 



346 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

experts, thtit the secret of the composition of the scmg-de-hceuf coloring 
and of its peculiiir glaze marked with pittings resembling those notice- 
able on orange peel (specimens of which are now so highly prized by 
collectors) was discovered by a missionar}^ and that its Chinese desig- 
nation {Laiuj-yao or Lang ware) preserves to the present day the first 
syllable of the inventor's surname. ^ Researches kindly undertaken at 
my request ])y Abbe Alphonse Favier, the vicar-general of Chihli prov- 
ince, into the ancient episcopal records and valuable library at Pekin 
have, however, failed to discover any mention of the establishment 
under missionary direction of a school for the special purpose of porce- 
lain decoration. Had it existed, the fact would undoubtedly have been 
chronicled in the records left by such careful and methodical workers 
as these Jesuit priests were; and the explanation which the existence of 
such a school would have afforded must therefore be abandoned. Abbe 
Favier, however, informs me that Brothers Castiglione and Attirer 
were noted painters at Pekin both of portraits and of landscapes, and 
that they formed a school, paintings by their pupils having come into 
his possession. It may, then, I think, be confidently assumed that the 
imperial family having in the first instance been struck with the beauty 
of the ornamentation on the enamel watches, snuff boxes, etc. , which 
came to China from France during the reign of Louis XIV, a some- 
what similar style of decoration was introduced about 1728, or shortly 
after, for articles intended for imperial use; and that subsequently the 
Jesuit brothers, Castiglione and Attirer, were commissioned to exe- 
cute European designs, which were sent to Chingte-chen, to be there 
copied on porcelain. As no article which was not perfect in every 
detail could be forwarded to Pekin, man}^ of the pieces ordered for 
the court would then (as now) be rejected by the superintendent of the 
manufactory', and be retained by him or his subordinates. These 
would gradually pass into other hands, and, possessing at once the 
charm of novelty and the merit of being in a style appreciated at court, 
would serve as models in the decoration of more ordinary ware. 

About the same period — that is, during the later years of Yungcheng's 
reign, which ended in 1735-^Ku Yiieh-hsiian, a subordinate officer, I 
believe, in the directorate of the Chingte-chen factories, introduced the 
use of an opaque-white vitreous ware for the manufacture of articles 

^ In China omne ignotum pro magnifico is especially true; and, as in the case of the 
beautiful red coloring of the Hsiiante period, so in the sang-de-boeuf, the brilliant 
tint is commonly believed to result fi'om the use of powdered rubies. The fact that 
in the list of missionaries of that time I could find none with the surname Lang, 
caused me to doubt the reliability of this generally accepted explanation; and on 
expressing my doubts to the late Chang Yen-Moan, for many years a member of the 
Chinese foreign office and minister to the United States, who was himself an ardent 
collector of ancient paintings and porcelain, he assured me that the name had no 
connection with the .Tesuits, but was derived from the surname of the governor of 
Kiangsi province at the time that ware was first made, Lang Ch'ao-t'ing. 



CERAMIC ART TN CHINA. 847 

of small dimensions, such as snuff bottles, wine cups, vessels for wash- 
iiio' pencils in, etc. The vitreous nature of the body imparted a tone 
and l)rilliancy to the colors used in the decoration which was greatl}^ 
admired; and, under the auspices of T'ang-ying, all the artistic and 
technical skill of the government factory was lavished upon these lit- 
tle gems, whic-h are certainl}' among the masterpieces, if not the mas- 
terpieces, of ceramic art in China, being valued more highly than jade 
by Chinese connoisseurs of the present day. The decoration of the 
best specimens of this ware will well repay minute stud}'. The choice 
of groundwork is effective, the grouping of the colors soft and harmo- 
nious, the introduction of European figures is interesting, and the 
arrangement of flowers evidences the highest artistic skill. Nos. 324 to 
327 are admirable specimens of this very rare ware. The earliest pieces 
were marked, usually in red, ta-ch^ing-nien-chih^ "Made during the 
great Pure (the Ch'ing or present) dynastj%" as in No. 323; the later 
pieces, during Chienlung's reign (1736 to 1705), had the mark within 
a square seal-like border, GMen-lung nien-chih, "Made during the 
reign of Chienlung," engraved in the foot, and filled with a thick, 
bright-l)lue enamel glaze. It is said that when specimens of this ware 
were submitted to the Emperor Yungcheng he expressed his high 
admiration of their beauty, but at the same time a regret that it should 
not 1)6 possible to obtain the same brilliant transparency of color upon 
the ground of greater purity which was afforded by the best porcelain 
as compared with the vitreous composition employed. T'angying's 
energies were immediately devoted toward fulfilling the Emperor's 
desire, his efforts being certainly crowned with a very large measure 
of success. He appears to have employed for his purpose a very pure 
glaze of a highly vitrifiable nature, and to have thereby obtained an 
enamel brilliancy that no other porcelain shows, and to have also 
secured to a considerable extent the same soft transparency in the 
decorative colors which was so much appreciated on Ku Yiieh-hsiian's 
vitreous ware. The manufacture of this porcelain appears to have been 
carried on simultaneously with that of the Ku Yiieh-hsiian proper, 
some dating from Yungcheng's reign and some from Chieidung's. 
The marks it l>ears correspond exactly with the later products of vit- 
reous composition, and, indeed, owing to its origin, it is known as 
fang-Ji-H-yueh-hsikm, "modeled on the pattern of the Ku Yileh-hsiiau." 
Specimens of this porcelain, which is quite rare, are held in very high 
esteem by the Chinese, alike for the purity of the paste, the brilliance 
of the glaze, and the beauty of the decoration, and are considered 
among the finest productions of the period during which the manufac- 
ture attained its highest excellence. Nos. 328 to 336 are good speci- 
mens, and afford a fair criterion of the merits of this porcelain. 

The three-quarters of a century above mentioned (165)8 to 1773) was 
marked by the production of articles which are masterpieces of Chinese 



348 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

ingenuity and of skillful workmanship. Vases of various fomis are 
fitted with a central ring, which, while it is separate from the vase and 
movable at will in a horizontal direction, still can not be detached. 
Other vases there are having the bod}'^ formed of two shells, the outer 
portion consisting in part of a geometric design or of bunches of flow- 
ers in openwork, revealing a historical representation, or a group of 
flowering plants beautifully painted upon the inner tube. Others, 
again, exhibit the peculiarities of both these varieties combined, it 
being possible to make the openwork exterior revolve, in order to 
bring to light the painted decoration within, but without possibility of 
separating it from the vase itself. There are still others of which the 
exterior shell is divided into two, generally unequal, parts, each having 
scalloped or lambrequin edges some inches in depth, which fit exactly 
into one another, but are still movable, though neither can be detached 
entirely from the internal body. What process was adopted to secure 
this mobility and prevent the movable section from becoming attached 
to the other portions of the vase in the process of baking is a mystery 
which has never as yet, I believe, been satisfactorily explained. The 
beautiful hexagonal and octagonal lamp shades of delicatel}^ thin porce- 
lain, either reticulated or ornamented with paintings and reticulated 
edges, are productions of this period equally admired and now no less 
rare than the above. 

During Chienlung's reign a considerable change is noticeable in the 
style of ornamentation — a change undoubtedly brought about by the 
influence of foreign designs. During the latter portion of the Ming 
dynasty, though arabesque decoration was known to the Chinese under 
the title of huei-huei, or Mohammedan style, and was also utilized, the 
ornamentation upon porcelain, when it was not floral in its character or 
formed of historical or mythological scenes, consisted almost entirely 
of reproductions of the patterns found upon the brocaded satins of that 
date. Under the earlier emperors of the present dynasty, though the 
decoration was marked by greater wealth of detail and by far greater 
artistic skill than at any previous time, in remained in essential charac- 
ter the same. On Chienlung porcelain, however, it exhibits a decided 
tendency towards the styles 'of western decoration, showing in some 
cases a close resemblance to the foliate ornamentation which plays so 
important a part in the illumination of mediaeval missals, in others to 
designs which are usually considered Persian or arabesque in their 
origin. This marked modification is no doubt due in part to the influ- 
ence of the designs sent from Persia to be copied in China on porce- 
lain ordered from that country, and after their return home to that of 
the Chinese potters (whom Shah Abbas I, about the year 1600, had in- 
vited to Persia, with the object of improving the manufacture of porce- 
lain at Ispahan), and in part to the influence of the Limoges enamels, 
which had been sent by Louis XIV to the Emperor K'anghsi and which, 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 349 

subsequent to that date, succeeding emperors had obtained from the 
Jesuit missionaries. These enamels seem indeed to have served as 
models to be reproduced with lidelit}" in every detail. For M. du Sartel 
gives the drawing of a low, open porcelain cup with two handles in the 
collection of M. Marquis of Paris, which is described as being the exact 
counterpart of a Limoges enamel, even the signature J. L. (Jean Lan- 
drin, an enameller of that town) being reproduced upon the foot. 

At about the same period it became customary for nobles and wealthy 
individuals in Europe to order services of porcelain from China bear- 
ing their family arms. Indeed if tradition can be trusted the practice 
originated tw^o centuries earlier; for the Emperor Charles V (1519 to 
1555) is said to have ordered from China a complete service orna- 
mented with his armorial bearings and monogram. The service is sup- 
posed to have passed into the hands of the Elector of Saxony after the 
emperor's withdrawal to Innspruck, and some plates now in the Dres- 
den collection, marked with a double C, inclosing the crowned double- 
headed imperial eagle, with coat of arms and collar of the Order of the 
Golden Fleece, are believed by the writers responsible for the above 
statement to be portions of this service. Judging, however, from the 
st3'lc of decoration, I am of opinion that this belief is erroneous, and 
that the plates in question were manufactured more than a century 
later than Charles V's abdication. The French Compagnie (T Orient et 
des Indes Orientales, whose title was shortly afterwards changed to Com- 
pagniede Chine., during the short period it existed, 1685 to 1719, brought 
from China, together with an extensive supply of other porcelains, 
services specially ordered, bearing the arms of France, of Penthievre, 
and of other distinguished families. Some of the services, as, for 
instance, the plates bearing the arms of England, France, and the 
provinces of The Netherlands, preserved in the Huis ten Bosch at The 
Hague, undoubtedly date from the first half of K'anghsi's reign, but 
the great majority are of later origin, and possess a considerable degree 
of excellence both as to form and decoration. 

From 1796 to 1820. 

The truly great monarchs K'anghsi, Yungcheng, and Chipnlung^ 
were succeeded by Chiach'ing (1796 to 1820), Chienlung's idle and 
dissolute son, whose administration was characterized by a feeble- 
ness hitherto unknown under Manchu rule, and was so detested 
as to occasion attempts to assassinate the vicegerent of Heaven — a 
stupendous crime in such a country as China. The porcelain factories, 
in common with all branches of the Government service, languished 
under the effects of this want of energy, and little worthy of special 
mention was manufactured. As the result of the high excellence 

^ Chienlung abdicated in order to escape disrespect to his grandfather by occupy- 
ing the throne for so long a period as he had reigned. 



350 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900, 

alread}' attained, good work continued to be performed, but it fell 
short of what the court had grown accustomed to, and no initiative 
was taken to attempt originality either in design or decoration. 

From 1821 to 1850. 

Chiach'ing was succeeded by his second son, who assumed the title of 
Taokuang (1821 to 1850), a ruler whose good intentions to root out 
the abuses that had grown up during his father's reign were largely 
neutralized b}' natural indolence. His difficulties were, besides, greatly 
increased b}'' the war with France and England, and the outbreak 
shortly after of the great T'aip'ing rebellion, which during his reign 
and that of his son (Hsienf eng, 1851 to 1861) devastated sixteen out of 
the eighteen provinces of the Chinese Empire, and threatened the over- 
throw of his dynast}'". Notwithstanding these serious causes for anx- 
iety, he found time to devote some attention to the ceramic art, and the 
porcelain manufactured for his own use, and marked with the designa- 
tion he gave to his own palace, Shen-te-f ang ^ compares not unfavorably 
with similar productions under Yungcheng and Chienlung, and is at 
the present day much sought after by Chinese connoisseurs. 

From 1850 to 1888. 

The productions of his successor are marked by rapid decadence, 
and the rebels, when they overran Kiangsi province, having entirely 
destro3'ed Chingte-chen and its factories, the manufacture of porcelain 
ceased entirely. 

During the reigns of his son T'ungchih (1862 to 1871) and nephew 
Kuanghsii (1875 to date) the manufacture has been renewed and great 
attention paid to its improvement, but it still falls far short of the 
classic periods of Yungcheng and of Chienlung. Some of the decora- 
tions in sepia exhibit considerable artistic merit, and a style of decora- 
tion consisting of flowers and butterflies in black and white upon a pale 
turquoise ground was highl}^ appreciated some tif teen 3^ears ago among 
foreigners. The greatest measure of success has, however, of late 
years been gained in the reproduction of ih&famille verte decoration of 
the drst half of K'anghsi's reign, and of this ornamentation or of plum 
blossom on black grounds. So good are these imitations that a prac- 
tised eye can alone detect the false from the real, and I have known a 
pair of black-ground vases, onl}^ two or three j^ears old, purchased by 
a foreign dealer for over $1,000, under the belief, no doubt, that 
they dated from the time of K'anghsi or of Chienlung. 

INTRODUCTION OF CHINESE PORCELAIN INTO EUROPE. 

M. Brongniart said that porcelain was first introduced into Europe 
by the Portuguese in 1518. Researches made since the publication of 
this work in 1844 prove, however, that oriental porcelain was known in 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 351 

Europe man}- years prior to that date. In New College, Oxford, is 
still preserved a celadon bowl mounted in silver richly worked, known 
as "Archbishop Warham's cup" and bequeathed l)y th:it prelate (150-1 
to 1532) to the college, which was imported into England l)eforc the 
reign of Henry VIII. Marr3^at, in his history of Porcelain, also men- 
tions some bowls which were given to Sir Thomas Trenchard by Philip 
of Austria when, after leaving England to assume the throne of Castile 
in 1605, he was driven back b}" a storm to We3'mouth and entertained 
there bj- Sir Thomas. These bowls are said to have been preserved by 
the Trenchards, and to be of white porcelain decorated with blue under 
glaze. From M. du Sartel's work we learn that amongst presents sent 
by the Sultan to Lorenzo de Medici in 1187 were porcelain vases; and 
that this ware is mentioned about the same time in the maritime laws 
of Barcelona as one of the articles imported from Egypt. In letters, 
too, addressed by the Venetian ambassador at the court of Teheran in 
1171 to his govei'nment frequent mention is made of porcelain; and 
some decades earlier, in 1110, the Sultan of Babylonia sent three bowls 
and a dish of Chinese porcelain {Je j^orcelaine de Slnant),^ to Charles 
VII, King of France, b}^ the hands of a (certain Jean de Village, the 
agent in that countr}" of a French merchant named Jacques Coeur. 

Nearly three centuries earlier still, mention is made in an Arabian 
manuscript, known as the Makrizi Manuscript, in the National Librar}'^, 
Paris, and translated by the Abbe Renaudot, of a service of chinaware, 
consisting of forty pieces of different kinds, sent wjth other presents 
to Nur-ed-din, the Kaliph of Syria, b}^ his lieutenant, Saladin (after- 
wards the hero of the Crusades), soon after hi;^ conquest of Syria, in 
the year of the Hegira 567 (A. D. 1188). "This," says Mr.' A. W. 
Franks in the catalogue of his own collection, now in the British 
Museum, "is the first distinct mention of porcelain out of China," but, 
in common with other writers on the subject, he refers the date of the 
present to 1171, though that year appears not to correspond with the 
Mohammedan date mentioned in the original text. 

From Chinese sources (the Ming-shih^ or History of the Ming- 
Dynasty, and the Hsi-yang-ch'ao-kung-tien-lu, or Records of Tribute 
Missions from the West) we learn that the famous eunuch Chengho 
carried Chinese arms as far as Cejion during the reign of Yunglo (1403 
to 1125); that under his successor in 1130 the same eunuch and an asso- 
ciate envoy. Wang Ching-hung, were sent on a mission to Hornmz and 
sixteen other countries, and that Chengho dispatched some of his sub- 
ordinates on commercial ventures to Calicut, on the coast of Malabar, 
and even as far west as Djiddah, the port of Mecca. "En 1131 ou 
1432," says Heyd,^ "on y vit meme arriver plusieurs jonques chinoises 

^Dii Sartel, Histoire de la Porcelaine Chinoise, p. 28. 

=*Histoire du commerce du Levant, IT, )>. 44.5, quoting Quatremfire'a M^moire sur 
I'Egypte, II, p. 291. 



352 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, lUOO. 

qui iravaient pas trouve a ecouler leurs marchandises a Aden dans de 
bonnes conditions. On les y reyiit avec empressement dans Tespoir 
que leur visitc serait le debut d'un traffic avec la Chine." The expe- 
dition was evidently a large one, and one of its objects was commercial 
intercourse, porcelain being specially mentioned among the articles 
with which the vessels were freighted. Porcelain had, however, reached 
these countries at a far earlier date. Marco Polo, traveling in 1280, 
mentions the trade in this ware from Quinsai, the present Hangchou, 
and from Zaitun, a port on the Fukien coast, which has been identified 
with Ch'tianchou (better known as Chinchew) by Klaproth and other 
writers, whose view has been adopted bj^ Colonel Yule in his magnifi- 
cent edition of that famous traveler's voyages, and with Changchou 
and its port, Geh-Kong (a short distance south from Chinchew, and 
inland), by Mr. George Philips, of Her British Majesty's consular 
service in China. And Ibn Batuta, an Arabian traveler, who wrote 
in 1310, states distinctly that "porcelain in China is worth no more 
than pottery is with us; it is exported to India and other countries, 
from which it is carried even to our own land Maghreh^^ that is, the 
sunset, the name given by the Arabs to all that part of Africa which 
lies to the west of Egypt. 

ROUTE FOLLOWED. 

Chinese history fully confirms the above statement, and, indeed, shows 
that this commerce had already long existed at the time Ibn Batuta 
wrote. In a gigantic compilation of the works of earlier authors under- 
taken during the reign of Yunglo (hence termed the Yung-lo-ta-tien)^ 
the manuscript of which was presented to the throne in 1407, is pre- 
served "an account of the countries fringing the Chinese border" 
[Chu-fan-chih)^ written by Chao Ju-kua, who was inspector of foreign 
trade in Fukien during the Sung dynasty. As the author speaks of 
the time of Mohammed "as twenty-nine generations, or six or seven 
hundred years ago," his work would seem to have ])een written during 
the first half of the thirteenth century; but as he mentions a tribute 
mission sent by the Arabs to China in the K'aihsi period (1205 to 1208), 
probably later than the latter date. The compilation was, however, 
considered too extensive and the printing was never completed, though 
the more important works relating to periods preceding the Yiian 
dynasty were reedited and published by the Emperor Chienlung. One 
of these was Chao Ju-kua's work. It contains much valuable infor- 
mation regarding the Arab trade of the twelfth century, and, >as it 
takes Chii'anchou (Chinchew) as the starting point from which all 
voyages start and distances are computed, it appears to support Klap- 
roth's identification of Marco Polo's Zaitun with that town. From this 
work it is evident that a large and valuable trade was carried on 
between China and Brni in Borneo, with Chanch''eng, comprising a 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 353 

portion of Cochin China, with Cambodia (^Vi^w/^^), with Java (xS'A^-j9o), 
with San-po-ch^i, which another Chinese work, the Ylng-hal-sheng-lan, 
states to be another name of Palenibang {Po-lin-pang) in Sumatra — at 
which hitter place the products of China and countries south of it were 
stored up for barter with Arab traders for the goods of Europe, India, 
west Asia, and Africa — and with Lambri, on the northwest coast of 
the same ishmd. Occasionalh' Chinchew junks proceeded onward to 
Coilom, a well-known seaport (the present Quilon) on the coast of 
Malabar, which is described under the name of Lampi; but as a rule it 
would seem that the trade westward was in the hands of the Arabs, 
and Chao Ju-kua mentions, indeed, incidentally that a family from 
Malabar was established in the southern suburb of Chinchew itself. 
From this point the goods were carried to Guzerat {^Huch^a-la)^ as 
part of the country of Lampi, and thence to the Arab colony in Zan- 
zibar {fs'engpa, Cantonese ts^'ang pat^ ts^ang par). Porcelain is dis- 
tincth^nentioned among the principal articles carried away from China 
by the vessels to each of these ports and to Cej'lon.^ The correctness 
of this author's statements has lately been confirmed in a striking man- 
ner. Sir John Kirk, during his residence in Zanzibar as consul-general, 
formed a collection of ancient Chinese celadon porcelain, some of the 
specimens having been dug up from ruins, mixed with Chinese coins 
of the Sung dynasty. 

Indeed it seems ver}" probable that porcelain was sent at least as far 
west as India in the tenth century, or even earlier; for commercial rela- 
tions between China and Sumatra are stated to have existed from the 
T'ienyu period (904 to 909) of the T'ang dynast\', and the name Sar 
baza, or Palembang, was known to Arab traders of that time, as we learn 
from translations of their travels by Renaudot and Reinaud. They 
were also acquainted with Chinese porcelain, for mention is made by 
one of them. Soli man by name, who visited China toward the middle 
of the ninth century, "of a very fine clay in that country, of which 
vases are made having the transparence of glass; water can be seen 
through them. " ' Indeed earlier, during the eighth century, Arab writ- 
ers mention the presence in the Persian Gulf of fleets of large Chinese 
junks. 

At that date the Arab trade with China was evidently exten- 
sive, and the colonies of Arabs at Canton and at Canfu, the port of 
Quinsai (the present Hangchow), very large. They are said to have 
been so numerous at the former place in the eighth century as to 
have been able to attack and pillage the city. AVhile at Canfu the 
Soliman above referred to (the manuscript account of whose travels 
was written, says his commentator, Abu Zaid Al Hasan, in A. D. 851) 

^ F. Hirth, Ancient Chinese Porcelain, pp. 45 et seg. 
'^ Reinaud's translation, p. 3-4, quoted by M. du Sartel. 



354 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

mentions the fact that " a Mohammedan held the position of judge over 
those of his relii^ion, l)ythe authority of the Emperor of China, who is 
j udge of all the Mohauuncdans who resort to those parts. Upon festival 
days he performs the pu])li(' service with the Mohammedans, and pro- 
nounces the sermon or kotbat, which he concludes in the usual form, 
with prayers for the Sultan of Moslems. The merchants of Irak — that 
is, Persia — who trade thither are no way dissatisfied with his conduct 
or administration in this port, because his decisions are just and equitable 
and conformable to the Koran. " And the commentator on these travels, 
Abu Said Al Hasan, who probablj^ wrote earlier in the tenth century, 
when speaking of the interruption then recently caused in "the ordi- 
nary navigation from Siraf to China," says this to have been occa- 
sioned by the revolt of "an officer who was considerable for his 
employment, though not of royal family," named Baichu. He laid 
siege to Canfu in the j^ear of the Hegira 264 (A. D. 885). "At last he 
became master of the city, and put all the inhabitants to the sword. 
There are persons fully acquainted with the affairs of China, who assure 
us that, besides the Chinese who were massacred on this occasion, there 
perished 120,000 Mohammedans, Jews, Christians, and Parsees, who 
were there on account of traffic. The number of the professors of 
these four religions who thus perished is exactly known, because the 
Chinese are exceedingly nice in the accounts they keep of them." ^ 

Apart, however, from the sea route, porcelain might possibly have 
followed the course of the overland traffic through central Asia, the 
use of which can be traced back to a very remote antiquity, some au- 
thorities claiming that there are indications of communication by this 
route between China and the West so early as 2698 B. C. , and that in 
2353 B. C. an embassy arrived in China from a country which is sup- 
posed to have been Chaldea.*^ There is, therefore, nothing impossible 
in the claim put forward that a small ivory-white plate having uncut 
emeralds and rubies, set in gold filigree, let into paste, and the Chinese 
wordy^« (happiness) marked on the foot in the seal character under the 
glaze, now in the royal collection at Dresden, was brought into Europe 
by a crusader of the twelfth century; provided, of course, the paste, 
glaze, etc., correspond with those which characterize the porcelain 
manufactured in China about that date or prior to it. 

KIND OF PORCELAIN CARRIED WESTWARD. 

What then was the porcelain that participated in this early trade? 
Chao Ju-kua, in the single instance, in which he alludes to its color, 
states it to have been " white and chHng^ or celadon. " It would almost 
necessarily have consisted of strong, coarse ware, in order to resist the 

1 Harris's Collection of Voyages (764), I, pp. 523 and 530. 

■■'Sir Charles Wilson's Address before the Geographical Section of the British Asso- 
ciation, Bath, 1888. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 355 

chances of breakage consequent upon the many transshipments inci- 
dental to these long vo3'ages in the rude craft of those early agea, and 
to allow its sale at the comparatively cheap rates at which it was dis- 
posed of in Ibn Batuta's day. Colonel Yule has thought that during 
the Yiian dynast}' it probably came from the Chingte-chen manufac- 
tories, but this scarcely seems probable, for the Vao-sli%LO, or Treatise 
on Pottery, says that no porcelain was then made there, except by 
imperial order and for the court. Zaitun — whether Chinchew, Chang- 
chow, or "the Amoy waters" (Doctor Douglas's compromise between 
the two) — as the headquarters of the western trade, would naturally 
receive supplies for export of Kuan-yao and of Ko-yao (both celadon in 
color) from the not far distant factories at Hangchow and Lungch'iian, 
respectively, as well as from the more distant factories, most of the 
productions of which were at this time also celadons. And celadon 
porcelains bearing all the distinctive characteristics of the Chinese 
manufactures of that nature have been discovered in almost all parts 
of the then Mohammedan world and in the countries visited by the 
early Arab traders. 

Mr. Carl Bock, speaking in his Head Hunters of Borneo of the 
Dyak, says: 

Among his greatest treasures are a series of gudji blanga, a sort of glazed jar im- 
ported from China, in green, blue, or brown, ornamented with figures of lizards and 
serpents in relief. These pots are valued at from 100 florins to as much as 3,000 flor- 
ins (£8 to £240) each, according to size, pattern, and, above all, old age, combined 
with good condition. According to native legend, these precious vases are made 
of the remnants of the same clay from which Mahatara (the Almighty) made first the 
sun and then the moon. Medicinal virtues are attributed to these urns, and they are 
regarded as affording complete protection from evil spirits to the house in which 
they are stored. A very full account of the various legends connected with these 
giuJji blanga is given in Mr. W. T. H. Perelaee's most interesting work Ethnographi- 
sche Beschreibimg der Dyaks, pp. 112-120.^ 

Mr. Bock saw Doctor Hirth's collection of Lungch'iian celadons, 
and found in it pieces resembling the ware preserved by the Dyaks, 

^ The possession of these vessels by the Dyaks, their use and value, are also chron- 
icled by earlier travelers. The belief in the efficacy of porcelain vessels to detect 
jioison in liquids contained in them is of ancient date and not confined to Asia alone, 
though the manner in which the porcelain was affected by the presence of poison 
appears to have varied in different cases. Thus, Guido PanciroUi, the learned juris- 
consult and antiquary of Padua (d. 1599), and his editor, Salnuitti (Guidonis Pan- 
(nrolli, J. C, Claris, rerum memorabilium libri duo; ex Italico Latine redditi et eotis 
illustrati ab Henrico Salnmtti, Antwerp, 1612) say that the presence of poison 
caused the porcelain either to break or to change color; while Dumont, in his Trav- 
els in Turkey, 1699, says that it caused the liquid to effervesce in the center while 
it remained cool near the vessel itself, the Turks, owing to this property, preferring 
porcelain to silver as the material of dinner services. Salmutti mentions the presen- 
tation to himself of one of these vessels by an Austrian prince, and Paul Hentzner 
(Itnerarium Gallia-, Anglia;, Italiie, 1616) says he saw some of them in the Farnese 
Palace at Rome. 



356 EEPORT OJ' NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

but specimon.s iiro, it api^ears, common among them which bear no 
resemblance to any ot" the celel)rated monochrome wares of the Sung 
and Yuan dynasties, a fact Doctor Hirth would explain by supposing 
that "they came from factories equally old, but less renowned, such 
as the place where the Chicn-yno of the Sung dynasty was made, the 
city of Chien-yangin the north of Fukien, which is all the more likely 
since Chao Ju-kua, in his description of the trade with Borneo, spe- 
ciall}" mention ' brocades of Chien-yang ' among the articles of import 
there."' 

A controversy has, however, recently arisen as to whether the cela- 
don vases found throughout the Mohanmiedan world are really of Chi- 
nese origin at all. Professor Karabacek, an Arabic scholar of Vienna, 
maintains that the " large, heavy, thick, green celadon dishes with the 
well-known ferruginous ring on the bottom, which have been found 
spread over all the countries of Arab civilization," are not of Chinese 
origin, basing his theory mainly on the statement made by Hadschi 
Chalfa, an encyclopedist who died in 1658, that "the precious mag- 
nificent celadon dishes and other vessels seen in his time were manu- 
factured and exported at Martaban, in Pegu." The Arab designation 
Martabani is applied by Professor Karabacek to the thick, heavy cela- 
dons. It would, however, appear to have been also applied to a variety 
of entirely different character. 

Jacquemart, in his History of the Ceramic Art, quotes Chardin's 
Voyages en Perse as follows: " Everything at the King's table is of 
massive gold or porcelain. There is a kind of green porcelain so pre- 
cious that one dish alone is worth -400 crowns. They say this porcelain 
detects poison by changing color, but that is a fable; its price arises 
from its beauty and the delicacy of the material, which renders it trans- 
parent although above two crowns in thickness," and then adds: "This 
last peculiarit}^ has a great importance. It is impossible to suppose 
travelers would here allude to the sea-green celadon — this, laid upon a 
brown, close paste approaching stoneware, is never translucent. In 
the martahani^ on the contrary, a thin, bright, green glaze is applied 
upon a very white biscuit, which allows the light to appear through. 
* * * Its name leaves no doubt of its Persian nationality\ Marta- 
ban {Mo-ta-ma) is one of the sixteen states which composed the ancient 
Kingdom of Siam; it would not be impossible, then, that we must 
restore to this kingdom the porcelain mentioned in the Arabian story." 

No porcelain, however, is known to have been made at Moulmien 
(Martaban), Bangkok, or Burma, and the burden of evidence is 
strongly against Professor Karabacek's contention of a non-Chinese 
origin for the iiiartahani or celadon porcelain. Probably the designa- 
tion wartahani was applied to this ware in much the same manner as 

^ F. Hirth, Ancient Chinese Porcelain, p. 50. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 357 

" Combronware " was applied in England after 1623 to porcelains 
brought from China to that port on the Persian Gulf, and purchased 
there for shipment home by the factory of the India Compan}- before 
it extended its operations to China (when these products came to be 
termed " China ware"), or in the same manner that "Indian China" 
is applied in America to porcelain shipped from Canton, and with as 
much reason. 

Indeed, M. du Sartel, in accord with most other writers on the sub- 
ject, maintains that no true porcelain was produced in Persia at all, 
and that the designation of such ware Tchini not only means that the 
earliest specimens and mode of manufacture were of Chinese origin, 
but that they one and all actually came from China. The Persians, it 
is true, manufactured a kind of ware which has been designated " Per- 
sian porcelain,"' but it was of so soft a nature that it could be not only 
scratched, but actually cut, with a knife, and was entirely distinct 
from hard, kaolinic porcelain. The supplies of the latter were, M. du 
Sartel maintains, derived entirely from China, to which countr}^ mod- 
els, shapes, and special kinds of ornamentation were sent for repro- 
duction, a custom which sufficiently explains the presence of a Persian 
name, or the v^ord fovna'iche ('' by order"), written in Arabic charac- 
ters, upon porcelain of undoubtedl}^ Chinese origin. 

This opinion requires, I apprehend, further investigation prior to its 
acceptance as fact. It is, however, recorded that Shah Abbas I, a great 
patron of all the arts, about the 3^ear 1600 invited a number of Chinese 
potters to establish themselves at Ispahan for the sake of introducing 
improvements in the manufacture of porcelain. Though several new 
methods were adopted, and though a new style of decoration, half 
Chinese, half Persian, was largely used for a long period after the arri- 
val of these potters, it is generally admitted that no hard porcelain 
resembling that of China was even then produced in Persia. And one 
can not help l>eing struck by the strong similarity, amounting practi- 
cally to identity, l)etween the vases contained in the cases devoted to 
so-called Persian porcelain in the Dresden collection and certain other 
vases in the same collection which are classed as Chinese. 

CHINESE AND EUROPEAN SYSTEMS OF MANUFACTURE COMPARED. 

Whatever the variety- of the Chinese porcelain was which constituted 
so important a factor in this early Arab trade, and whatever the date 
at which it made its first appearance in Europe, specimens of it had, 
prior to the beginning of the second half of the seventeenth centuiy, 
found a place in the collections of princes alone. About that time, 
however, Chinese porcelain became more generalh' known, and the 
fine quality of the glaze, its transparency, and the brilliant style of its 
decoration excited universal admiration. Strenuous efi'orts were at 
once made on all sides to discover the secret of its manufacture, but 



358 BEPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 19C0. 

these researches, though resulting indirectly in other discoveries and 
in great progress in the European manufacture, were not crowned with 
success. They had, in fact, led to the creation, in France and England, 
of soft porcelain, which, if in some respects superior to the Chinese 
porcelain from a decorative point of view, was also more fragile and 
more easily scratched than the latter. This soft porcelain was made in 
France, at St. Cloud perhaps about 1695, at Chantilly in 1735, at Vin- 
oennes in 1740, and at Sevres in 1756; and in England, at Chelsea in 
1745, at Derby in 1748, and at Worcester in 1761. Recourse was then 
had to the Jesuit missionaries in China, with the result of obtaining the 
valuable letter from P. d'Entrecolles, dated 1712, supplemented ten 
years later by further details. The difficulty incident to translating 
technical Chinese expressions, combined with want of acquaintance with 
chemistry on the part of the author, as well as the primitive condition 
of that science more than one hundred and fifty years ago, prevented 
the practical use of the information supplied by P. d'Entrecolles. An 
attempt was made to secure the knowledge desired by obtaining speci- 
mens of the materials employed. The fact, however, that these were 
sent either in a partially fused state or in the forms of several almost 
impalpable powders mixed together prevented a recognition of their 
real nature. 

What it had been impossible to learn by direct inquiry was, however, 
discovered by chance. In 1718 Bottger found an important bed of 
white and plastic clay in Saxony, and with it made the first "hard" 
porcelain manufactured in Europe. The government had this bed 
carefully guarded, imposed oaths of secrecy upon the staff employed, 
had a strict account kept of all the clay taken out, and transported it 
under armed convoy to Albrechtsburg, the place of manufacture, 
which was converted into a veritable fortress. In spite, however, of 
these precautions the secret leaked out in course of time, and with it 
the clay also, to Vienna and St. Petersburg. Later, in 1765, Guettard 
discovered in France the kaolin of Alengon, and Macquer, three years 
later, found the remarkable beds of Saint-Yrieix. 

The History of the Porcelain manufactories at Chingte-chen, trans- 
lated by M. Julien, containing as it does a detailed account of the pro- 
cedure followed there, permits a comparison between the systems 
employed in China and in Europe. In view of the interest attaching 
to such a comparison no apology is needed for the following brief notes 
on that subject, based chiefly upon the preface to M. Julien's work 
from the pen of M. Salvetat, a member of the directory of the govern- 
ment manufactory at Sevres: 

COMPOSITION OF PORCELAIN. 

Porcelain is composed of two parts — the one, infusible, the paste 
{jpate)^ which is required to supply the body of the vessel, or, as the 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 359 

Chinese term it, to give it "bone;"" the other, fusible, the glaze {glag- 
iire, eouve?'te), which imparts its characteristic transparency to porce- 
lain and at the same time prevents the vessel retaining its porousness 
or contracting under the influence of heat. 

The principal ingredients of the paste are clays, which are classed 
according to their greater or less degree at the same time of plasticity 
and fusibility. The porcelain clay jxw excellence is kaolin, a white 
aluminum silicate produced by the decomposition of granitic or felds- 
pathic rocks, almost infusible, and if not always perfectl}" white by 
nature, losing its tint in the kiln. It derives its name originall}' from 
that of the hill whence the manufactories at Chingte-chen procured 
their supph' of this clay. The main object of the glaze is, as has 
been said, while securing transparency, to prevent the paste remaining 
porous. Now, the substances unafl^ected by water but fusible by fire 
are quartz, silica, certain limestones, pegmatite, feldspar, silex, and 
the compounds resulting from a superficial fusion of these substances, 
which are then reduced to a fine powder. The relative proportion of 
these substances in the composition of the glaze maj- be raised at will 
with a corresponding diversity of result — M. Brogniart dividing the 
compound into three classes, each subdivided into three groups. 

Inordinary language porcelain is classified under two grand divisions, 
hard paste and soft paste — la jMte dure and la pate teyxdre. The latter is 
characterized by the presence, either naturally or artificiall}- ,of limestone 
products or alkalies, either in the condition of phosphates or in that of 
marl or chalk,which lower its degree of fusibilit\', so that it becomes fus- 
ible or at least soft at a temperature of 800° C. The absence of these 
matters in the hard paste causes it to retain its original consistency in 
far greater heat, and it can resist a temperature of 1,500° C, or above. 
Upon these two divisions are grafted several minor ones determined 
by the kind of glaze, which, according to its composition and mode of 
application, is termed vernis, email, or couverte. After unglazed tiles 
and bricks, the primitive thin glaze, vernis, \f> found on the pottery of the 
Etruscans, ancient Arabs, Persians, and the early inhabitants of 
America; then, on that manufactured in Germany and Italy in the 
fourteenth century, a sort of transparent glass with a foundation of 
lead — a glaze still common in country productions. Later, in the 
fifteenth century, the true white enamel, email, a mixture of salt, of 
lead and tin, the thickness of which concealed the color of the paste, 
was discovered in Italy and gained immortality for Luca della Robl)ia, 
of Florence, and Oragio Fontana, of Pesaro. In this category" also 
belong the majolicas, faenza, the faiences of Niirnberg, Bernard 
Palissy's pottery, the faiences of Nevers, Rouen, and other places, 
ancient and modern. The couverte is confined to porcelain proper. 

Crude Chinese kaolin, when cleansed by washing out its impurities, 
and ready for use in making the paste, gives a ver3' white clay, soft to 



360 



REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



the touch, po.ssessing a plasticity very similar to that of Saint Yrieix, 
which is derived from dccompo.sed pegmatite. The residue left bj^ the 
washing contains a good deal of quartz, crystals of feldspar partialh^ 
decomposed, and flakes of mica, as would be found in graphic granite. 
Analysis shows that the fusible portion consists chiefl}' of petrosilex 
and, by its composition and density, closeh" resembles the rock found 
in abundance at Saint Yrieix, which, without addition, furnishes the 
glaze for hard porcelain at Sevres. 

The composition of Chinese and of the most celebrated of European 
porcelains ma}' be compared in the following table: 

[Average of six analyse.s.] 



Constituents. 


Chinese. 


Sevres, j Foecy. 


Paris. 


Limoges. 


Vienna. 


Saxony. 


Silica 


69.20 

22.60 

1.60 

0.65 

Trace. 

5.60 


58.00 
34.50 


66.20 


71.90 


70.20 
24.00 


57.70 
36.80 
0.70 
1.60 
1.40 
1.80 


58.10 
36.70 
0.70 
0.70 
0.40 
3.40 


Alumina 


28. 00 22. 00 


Oxide of iron 


0.70 0.80 0.70 
Trace. 0. 80 0. 70 


4.50 




Trace. 
5.10 




0.10 




3.00 


4. .50 


4.30 


Total 






100.00 


100.00 


100.00 


100.00 


100.00 


100.00 







Thus, generally speaking, Chinese porcelain contains more silica and 
less alumina than do the products of the manufactories of Sevres, 
Vienna, and Saxony, respectively. The effect of the presence in greater 
or less degree of these components is well known by the Chinese, who 
sa}' that to produce fine porcelain the ratio of alumina must be increased; 
to produce the commoner kinds that of silica must be increased. In 
Europe experience has taught the same results. The porcelain of com- 
merce shows much the same composition as do the specimens of Chinese 
analyzed by M. Salvetat, also presumably ordinary ware and not the 
finest grades intended for imperial use, while in the three government 
establishments mentioned a larger ratio of alumina is introduced, 
because it resists high temperatures and is therefore necessaiT to enable 
the designs painted to maintain their sharpness of outline. In some 
cases the Chinese also employ ferruginous kaolins, which sensibly 
diminish the value of the manufactured article. 



SHVPING THE PASTE. 



In China the paste is roughly shaped, is turned, and is moulded when 
in a malleable state, in much the same manner as in Europe. Casting 
or moidage en havhotine appears to be unknown in China. The absence 
of this process, which has enabled European artists to produce such 
grand results, only increases our admiration of the manual dexterity 
which has enabled the Chinese to manufacture such numbers of jars of 
large dimensions and cups so thin as egg-shell porcelain, which can 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 361 

now, or could at least when M. Salvetat wrote, only be produced at 
Sevres by casting. The sculpture, the hollowing- out, the shaping, 
etc., are practiced also in China in nuich the same manner as in Europe. 
Among the happiest effects produced in this line are engraving in the 
paste, sculpture in relief on the paste, and the open work which the 
French term pieces retleulees. 

One peculiarity of the Chinese system is the method of completing 
the foot in the unbaked state and after being covered with glaze. This 
custom of laving on the glaze before the article has been completed, 
the method in which the glaze is applied, and the composition of the 
glaze present, perhaps, the greatest contrasts with the corresponding 
manipulations employed in Europe. It is certainly curious that the 
Chinese after a practical experience extending through so many cen- 
turies should be ignorant of the advantages to be derived from sub- 
mitting the article to a slight baking before applying the glaze, which 
is then in a condition termed by the French Vetat degourdi. Porcelain 
earth, like other clays, is diluta])le by water, but it ceases to be so 
after exposure to a temperature which makes it red. On this propert}^ 
is based, in Europe, an expeditious and easy method of covering porce- 
lain with glaze. The porcelain having been rendered indissoluble and 
absorbent by a preliminar}' slight baking, it may be covered with a 
uniform layer of suitable thickness by a simple immersion in water 
holding the fineh^ crushed material in suspension, provided that the 
proportions of water and glaze (relativeh' to the thickness of the ves- 
sel to be covered) have been dulj^ determined. The failure to emploj'^ 
this process is the more curious since, from Mr. Hoffman's sketch of 
the Japanese system of manufacture appended to M. Julien's work, it 
appears that in that country the glaze is applied to porcelain after 
preliminary baking. 

GLAZE. _ 

In Europe porcelain glaze is generally composed of pure pegmatite, 
finely crushed and applied by immersion after a preliminary l)aking. 
In German}' other substances, such as kaolin or paste, have been added 
to diminish its fusibility, but at Sevres pegmatite from Saint Yrieix is 
alone used. The addition of lime in forming the glaze is a rare excep- 
tion in Europe. In China, on the contrary, pure petrosilix is but very 
seldom used for this purpose. The greater part of Chinese and Japan- 
ese porcelains is covered with compound glazes, obtained by a mixture 
of substances of which the proportions vary according to the nature 
of the article, lime being the material added to the petrosilix to ren- 
der it more easily fusible: and, in some cases, the ratio added is so large 
that it represents a fourth of the total weight. In the preparation of 
the glaze, the use of fern leaves is sometimes mentioned. The residue 
of the leaves after ])urning appears, however, to be cast aside, and 
what purpose these leaves exactly served has never been determined. 
NAT MUS 1900 26 



<}(>2 REl'OKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, lUUO. 

As regards the manner of applying the glaze the Chinese, as has 
been shown, are ignorant of the method of subjecting the porcelain to 
a preliminary l)aking and then utilizing the want of porousness thus 
gained to immerse the vessel in the li(iuid glaze. Instead, the}' apply 
it by aspersion and immersion or by insufflation. For example, take 
a cup. It is held b}' the outside shmting over a basin containing the 
liquid glaze. Sufficient of the glaze is then thrown on the inside to 
cover the surface. This is aspersion. The outside is then inmiersed 
in the liquid, the workman dexterously keeping the vessel in equilib- 
rium with the hand and a small stick. The foot having remained in 
its original state, the cup is then carried, covered as it is with glaze, 
to the wheel that the foot may be hollowed and finished; a mark in 
color is added on the hollowed portion, which is then covered with glaze. 
When the ware is too delicate to be treated in this manner, the glaze 
is applied by insufflation. A piece of gauze attached to a hollow tube 
having been plunged in the colored glaze (red or blue) or uncolored 
glaze, the workman scatters the liquid from the gauze on to the vessel 
by blowing through the opposite end of the tube three, four, or even 
as man}' as eighteen times. 

BAKING. 

The porcelain being then ready for leaking, it is taken to the kilns, 
which are usually situated at some distance from the workshops and 
Vjelong to persons whose sole occupation is to superintend the baking. 
The large pieces are placed one by one in a separate seggar made by 
hand, covers being dispensed with by piling the seggars one on another. 
Several of the smaller pieces are placed in the same seggar, the floor 
under each being covered with a layer of sand and kaolin refuse to pre- 
vent adhesion. The porcelain l)eing still in a soft state, great care must 
be exercised in placing it in its seggar. It is not touched, therefore, 
with the hand, l)ut transferred into the seggar by an ingenious contriv- 
ance of cords and sticks. The bottom of the kiln is tilled with a thick 
layer of gravel on which the seggars are piled, those under the chim- 
ney, the two seggars at the bottom of each pile, and that at the top 
))eing left empty, as their contents would not be thoroughh' baked. 
The flnest pieces are placed in the center, those with harder glaze at 
the entry near the hearth, and the coarsest farthest in. The piles are 
strongly bound together, and, the stacking of the oven being completed, 
the door is bricked up. From the description given of the kilns by 
P. d'Entrecolles it appears that they are much the same as those used 
in early times at Vienna and Berlin. 

After the baking begins a low fire is kept up for twenty-four hours,, 
which is then followed ])v one more powerful. At the top of the kiln 
are four or five small holes covered with broken pots, one of which is 
opened when it is thought the baking is completed, and by means of 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA". HQS 

pincers a cage is opened to test the condition of tlie porcelain. The 
baking ended, firing is stopped and all openings closed dui'ing a i)eriod 
of three or live davs. according to the size of the pieces, when the door 
is opened and the articles removed. 

To bake porcelain decorated with soft colors or dx deini-grand feu 
two kinds of kilns are nsed — one open, the other closed — the former of 
which b(>ars a close resemblance to the enameler's kiln {mmifle). This 
kind of furnace has been used in Germany to l)ake painted porcelain; 
but even in China the liability to breakage confines its use to articles 
of small size. The large pieces are baked in closed kilns, the general 
arrangement of which resembles that of the kilns known as moufles, 
but being circular in form, they are really p^^'celain kilns of small size. 

DECORATIONS. 

In the decoration of European porcelain one of three methods is 
followed: {ii) The use of paste of different colors; (i) the introduction 
of the coloring matter in the glaze; (<?) the application of the colors 
upon the white surface of the porcelain. The two former methods 
require the application of a temperature as high as that necessary to 
bake the porcelain; they are therefore termed colors dn grand feu. 
The third method requires for the vitrifaction of the colors a much 
lower temperature; the colors used are therefore termed de mouflc, or 
of the enameler's furnace. It is the use of this latter sN^stem which 
permits the reproduction with exactness of the works of celebrated oil 
painters. 

The substances employed in the decoration of porcelain in China may 
be divided into two similar categories, colors du grand feu and de 
moiifle. 

Colors du grand feu. — The varieties of the grounds in these colors 
have played prol)ably as imj)ortant a part in the high reputation gained 
by Chinese porcelain as have the originality and rich harmony of the 
designs. The hlue decoration under the gla^e is made with the brush 
on the unbaked porcelain, the coloring matter being peroxide of 
coV)altiferous manganese, the shade, dark or light, depending on the 
quantity used, and the greater or less trending toward ^•iolet on the 
richness of the ore in cobalt. It resists the tire well, retaining great 
distinctness and at lower temperatures than are necessary at Sevres. 
C'elado7i and the re^ grounds, at times showing an orange, at others a 
violet shade, had not been- successfully reproduced in p]urope Avhen 
M. Salvctat wrote in 1855, and he considered their production in China 
as due rather to accident than design. The justice of this view is, 
however, perhaps open to (piestion, for the Chinese appear to have 
at least an empirical knowledge of the conditions necessary to produce 
these colors, though thej^ are unable in all cases to ensure those con- 
ditions. The fond laque ovfeuille mortt is obtained by the use of oxide 



3()4 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUriEUM, 11)00. 

of iron, the amount of that metal and the nature of the ga.s .surromiding 
the vessel in the kihi determining the tone of the color from a light 
shade to one resem))ling bronze, and warmth of color being obtained by 
an oxidizing atmosphere. Blacl- grounds are produced in a variety of 
ways, either by the thickness of the colored glaze, or by laying several 
shades of different colors one on the other, or, again, bj^ laying a blue 
glaze on a brown laque, or vice v<irs((. 

M. Salvetat writes that among the colors for the ground employed 
in China some are evidently applied upon the biscuit; that is, porce- 
lain already lired at a high temperature. These are violet, turquoise 
hive, yellmv, and green, all containing a pretty large proportion of 
oxide of lead; and, vitrifying as they do at a medium temperature, 
hold a place half way between the two main categories and may be 
therefore termed colors du demi-grand feu. Nothing approaching 
these colors, he says, is produced in Europe. To do so, however, 
would not be difficult, the green and turquoise blue owing their colors 
to copper, the yellow^ to lead and antimony, and the violet to an oxide 
of manganese containing but little cobalt. 

Colors de moufle. — In Europe these colors are obtained by mixing 
one oxide or several metallic oxides together with a vitreous flux, the 
composition of which varies with the nature of the color to be devel- 
oped. That most generally used is termed " the flux for gra3's.'" It 
serves not only for grays, however, but also for blacks, reds, blues, 
and 3^ellows, and is composed of six parts of minium, two parts of sili- 
cious sand, and one part of melted borax. The colors are obtained by 
mixing by weight one part of metallic oxide with three parts of the 
flux, so that the composition may be expressed thus: 

Silica 16. 7 

Oxide of lead 50. 

Borax , . . . 8. 3 

Coloring oxides 25. 



100. 



In cases w^here, as with oxide of cobalt, the colors are produced by 
mixture with the flux and ought to have the required shade when 
applied, the metallic oxides are melted with the flux prior to use; in 
those, however, where the desired color is that inherent in the oxide, 
the tone of which would be changed b}" a double exposure to fire, as is 
the case with reds derived from iron peroxide, the union with the flux 
by melting is dispensed with. The colors so made suffice to permit 
the reproduction on porcelain of oil paintings; but it is essential that 
they all melt at the same temperature and after baking present a suffi- 
cient and thoroughly uniform glaze. 

In Chinese decorations these conditions, insisted upon in Europe, 
are both absent. Some colors, such as the rose tints derived from gold, 
the blues, greens, and yellows, are brilliant, thoroughly melted, and so 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 365 

thick jis to stand out al)OAV the general level of the surface: others, 
such as the reds derived from iron and the blacks, are much thinner, and 
are almost always quite dull or only slig-htly glazed when thin. The 
style of painting- in Chinese ditiers entirely from the European, In 
the majority of the specimens the forms and flesh are not modeled; 
strokes of black or red define the outlines; the tones do not shade; 
the colors are laid in flat tints on which a damask is sometimes drawn 
afterwards, either in the same or in difl:'erent colors, biitthe mixture on 
the palette of dift'erent crushed colors, which permits of so much variety 
in European painting, appears not to be practiced l)y them. Their 
colors (as indeed seemed probable from the lightness of the shades 
obtained, in spite of their thickness before analysis had confirmed the 
presumption) contained far less coloring matter than do the European, 
a peculiarity which makes them approach nearer to the vitrified sub- 
stances known as enamel than to any other. They are characterized 
by great simplicity and a considerable degree of uniformity. 

The flux, which is not distinct in color, is always composed of silica, of 
oxide of lead in but slightly varying proportions, and of a larger or 
smaller quantit}' of alkalies (soda and potash). This flux contains in 
dissolution, in the conditions of silicates, some hundredths parts onh" 
of coloring oxides. The number of these is very small, being oxide 
of copper for greens and bluish-greens, gold for the reds, oxide of 
cobalt for the blues, oxide of antimony for the yellows, and arsenical 
acid and stannic acid for whites. Oxides of iron to produce red and 
oxides of impure manganese to produce black are not used, because 
no dou))t these colors can not be obtained from the oxides named by 
means of dissolution. 

In Europe, in addition to the oxides already mentioned, important 
results are obtained from substances unknown in China. The shade 
derived from pure oxide of cobalt is modified by mixing with it oxide 
of zinc or alumina, and sometimes alumina and oxide of chromium; 
pure oxide of iron gives a dozen reds, shading from orange-red to very 
dark violet; ochers, pale or dark, yellow or brown, are obtained ])y the 
combination in dift'erent proportions of oxide of iron, of oxide of zinc, 
and of oxide of cobalt or nickel; browns are produced by increasing the 
amount of oxide of cobalt contained in, and blacks b}' omitting the oxide 
of zinc from, the composition which gives the ochers. The shades of 
yellow are varied by the addition of oxide of zinc or of tin to render them 
lighter, and of oxide of iron to render them darker. Oxide of chro- 
mttim, pure or mixed with oxide of cobalt or with oxides of cobalt 
and of zinc, gives 3'ellow-greens and bluish-greens, which may be made 
to var}' from pure green to almost pure blue. Metallic gold supplies 
the purple of Cassius, which maybe changed at will into violet, purple, 
or carmine. Other useful colors are obtained from oxide of uranium 
andlFroiu chromate of iron, of barium, and of cadmium. 

In European colors all these coloring matters are merely mixed. In 



806 REPORT OF NATIONAL MrSEUM, 1900. 

the Chinese the oxides are, on the contrary, dissolved. This peculiarity, 
no less than their appearance, closeh' connects the Chinese colors with 
"enamels." Both present the same coloring, obtained from the same 
oxides and a composition of flux verv similar, sometimes identical. 
Transparent enamels are vitreous compounds, the composition of which 
varies, according to the amount of fusibility required, and which are 
colored h\ a few hundredths of oxides. Blues are supplied by oxide 
of cobalt, greens by protoxide of copper, reds by gold. Opaque 
enamels, yellow or white, owe their color and opacity either to anti- 
mony or to arsenic or stannic acids, together or alone. It had, how- 
ever, been found impossible to utilize these enamel substances in the 
decoration of European porcelain, owing to the fact that thej^ scaled 
off: and when the Chinese colors (as sent by MM. Itier and Ly) were 
experimented upon at Sevres, they did precisely the same thing. 
"When placed upon Chinese porcelain, however, they developed at a 
temperature below that used at the Sevres manufactoiy for retouching 
flowers, and did not scale. The explanation is no doubt to ])e found 
in the fact that the paste of Chinese porcelain being more fusible than 
the European, the glaze nuist also be more easily fusible, and the lime 
introduced into it to increase the fusibility adapts it in some manner 
for closer union with the compounds forming the enamel. 

If, then, the appearance of Chinese porcelain differs from that of 
European productions, if the harmony of their paintings offers greater 
variet}^, it is the necessarj^ result of the process employed in China. 
All the colors used contain but little coloring matter and have no 
worth unless applied in a depth which gives their paintings a relief 
impossible to obtain by other means. The harmony of their decora- 
tion results from the nature and composition of their enamels. 

SuiiniKirij of collfclion. 
Porcelains : Speoimens. 

Sung dynasty (A. D. 960-1259) 1,2 

Yiian dynasty (A. D. 1260-1849) 8 

Ming dynasty, Yunglo (A. D. 1403-1424 ) 4 

' Hsiiante (A. D. 1426-1435) 5-9 

Ch'^nghua (A. D. 1465-1487) 10, 11, 134 

Ch'engte (A. D. 1506-1521 ) 12 

Wanli (A. D. 1573-1629) 13-25, 171-175 

Ching or present dynasty, K'anghsi (A. D. 1662-1722) 26-84 

Yungc'heng (A. D. 1 723-1 735 ) 85-170 

Chienlung (A. D. 1736-1796) 176-288 

Chiach 'ing ( A. D. 1 796-1820 ) 337-344 

Taokuang (A.D.I 820-1 850 ) 346-375 

Eggshell porcelain: 

Ming dynasty ( A. D. 1403-1649) 289-303 

Ching dynasty (A. D. 1664 to date) 304-322 

Vitreous ( Ku Yiieh-hsiian) ware and porcelain reproductions of it 323, 336 

Snuff bottles 345, 376-416 

Bronzes 41^-134 

Lacquer and ivory 435-438 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 367 



CATALOGUE. 

1. Small dish for washing pencih-, Htiuare, with upright f^ides, of white Sung dynasty 

(A. D. 960 to 1259) i)oroelain, coarsely crackled. Height, J inch; diameter, 
2J inches. 

2. Loir rase for washing pencils, s(juare, with sides bellying outwards from mouth 

downwards, having two four-footed lizanls with long, curled tails moulded 
in relief crainj)ed on rim, and heads looking into trough, of white Sung 
dynasty porcelain covered with stone-colored glaze, lleiglit, 1.', inches; 
diameter, 3 inches and '^\ inches. 

3. Plate of white Chiinchow porcelain {Ckiin-i/ao) of Yiian dynasty (A. D. 12()0 to 

1349), covered with glaze of duck's-egg blue, of lighter tint at edge and 
brim, from which glaze has rim, with large irregular splotches of claret red, 
shading into purple at edges, where it mixes with blue color of the body. 
Diameter, 7f inches. 

4. Low (lislt of white porcelain with openwork edge formed by intersecting circles; 

decoration Inside, six medallions, of dragons' ,/r»r/ huaiig, and formal designs 
joined by conventional foliage; outside a light pattern in blue. Mark on 
foot, Ta-ming-yiing-lo-nicn-chilt, "Made during the Yunglo period (1403 to 
1424) of the Ming dynasty;" style of decoration and of writing in the date- 
mark shows it, however, to be of Japanese manufacture. Diameter, 9f 
inches. 

The lung or dragon is the chief of the four Chinese supernatural beasts, 
the otlier three being the feng huaug (usually translated pluenix), 
the ch'ili)! (usually translated unicorn), and the tortoise. It is usu- 
ally represented with scowling head, straight horns, a scaly, serpen- 
tine body with four feet armed with formidable claws; along the 
length of the body runs a line of bristling dorsal spines, and on the 
hips and shoulders are flame-like appendages. The claws appear to 
have originally numbered three on each foot, but the number has 
in subsequent ages been increased to five. The Shuo-wen, a dic- 
tionary published in the second century A. D., states that of the 
three hundred and sixty scaly reptiles the'dragon is the chief. It 
wields the power of transformation and the gift of rendering itself 
visible or invisible at jileasure. In spring it ascends to the skies 
and in autunm it buries itself in the watery depths. The watery 
principle in the atmosphere is essentially associated with the lung, 
but its congener, the cltiao-lung, is inseparably connected with waters 
gathered upon the surface of the earth. A denizen of such waters 
is also the variety j)'an-lwig, which does not mount to heaven. 
There is also a species of hornless dragon — the chin-lung. Kuan 
Tz'u (seventh century B. C. ) declares that "the dragon becomes at 
will reduced to the size of a silkworm or swollen till it fills the 
space of heaven and earth. It desires to mount, and it rises till it 
affronts the clouds; to sink, and it descends till hidden below the 
fountains of the deep." The early cosmogonists enlarged upon the 
imaginary data of previous writers, and averred tliat there were four 
distinct kinds of dragons proper — the t'ien-lnng or celestial dragon, 
which guards the mansions of the gods and supports them so that 
they do not fall; the shen-lung or spiritual dragon, which causes the 
winds to blow and produces rain for the benefit of mankind; the 
ti-lung or dragon of earth, which marks out the courses of rivers 
and streams; and the fn-ts'ang-lmig or dragon of hidden treasures, 



868 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

which watflies over the wealth concealed from mortals. Modem 
superstition has further ori}i:inated the idea of four dragon kings, 
each bearing rule over one of the four seas which form the borders 
of the habitable earth. The huang-lung or yellow dragon is the 
most honored of the tribe; and this it was, which, rising from the 
waters of Lo, presented to the eyes of Fuhsi the elements of writing 
(see No. 36). The dragon, as chief among the beings divinely con- 
stituted, is peculiarly symbolical of all that pertains to the Son of 
Heaven — the Emperor, whose throne is termed Iniifj-irei, the dragon 
seat, and whose face is described as huuj-yeii, the dragon counte- 
nance (^■'ee Mayer's Chinese Readers' Manual No. 451 ). At his death 
the Emperor is believed to be liorne by dragons to the regions of the 
blessed. The dragon thus intimately associated with the Emperor 
is always depicted with five talons on each claw, and it is he alone, 
properly speaking, who can use such a device upon his property; 
the dragon borne by the princes of the blood has but four talons on 
each claw. The distinction, however, is not at present rigidly 
maintained, and the five-clawed dragon is met with embroidered 
on officers' uniforms. 

"In Chinese Buddhism," says Dr. Anderson, in his Catalogue of Japan- 
ese and Chinese Paintings in the British Museum, "the dragon plays 
an important part, either as a force auxiliary to the law, or as a 
malevolent creature to be converted or quelled. Its usual charac- 
ter, however, is that of a guardian of the faith under the direction 
of Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, or Arhats. As a dragon king it officiates 
at the baptism of S'akyamuni, or bewails his entrance into Nirvtlna; 
as an attribute of saintly or divine personages it appears at the feet 
of the Arhat Panthaka, emerging from the sea to salute the goddess 
Kuanyin, or as an attendant upon or alternative form of Sarasvati, 
the Japanese Benten; as an enemy to mankind it meets its Perseus 
and St. George in the Chinese monarch Kao Tsu ( of the Han dynasty) 
and the Shmto God, Susano no Mikoto. * * * As to the origin 
of the relation of the cobra to Indian Buddhism, there appears to be 
little doubt that the Cobra kings represented a once hostile Scythic 
race of serpent-worshipers which first invaded India in the seventh 
century B. C, and that a subsequent alliance with portions of the 
foreign tribes gave rise to the stories of converted Nagas and o' 
Nagas who defended the faith. When the religion made its way into 
China, where the hooded snake was unknown, the emblems shown 
in the Indian pictures and graven images lost their force of sugges- 
tion, and hence became replaced by a mythical but more familiar 
emblem of power. The multiplication of the cobra head seen in the 
AmravAti topes becomes lost in Chinese Buddhism, but perhaps may 
be traced in the seven-headed dragons and serpents of Japanese 
legend. The high position occupied by the dragon in Chinese imagi- 
nation may perhaps be a relic of ancient serpent worship in that 
country. Illustrations of the identity of the dragon and serpent in 
Japanese art and the portrayal of creatures in transitional forms 
between the two are suggestive of such an origin." 

Ff^ruj, the name of the male, and Intang, of the female, of a fabulous bird 
of wondrous form and mystic nature, the second among the four 
supernatural creatures. The compound of the two, feng-huang, is the 
generic designation usually employed for the bird, and is frequently 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 369 

translated "pha^nix." One writer describes it as having the head 
of a plieasant, the beak of a swallow, the net-k of a tortoise, and the 
outward semblance of a dragon, tii whicli another version adds the 
tail of a lish, but in pictorial representations it is usually delineated, 
as here, as a compound of a peacock and a pheasant, with the addi- 
tion of man 3' gorgeous colors. Very early legends narrated that this 
bird made its appearance as a presage of the advent of virtuous 
rulers, whos.e presence it also graced as an emblem of their auspi- 
cious government. It sat in the court of Huang Ti, who is credited 
with having entered upon a reign of one hundre<l years in B. C. 2097, 
while that sovereign observed the ceremonial fasts; and, airording 
to the Classic of History, it came with measured gambolingsto add 
splendor to the musical performances conducted by the great Shun 
(B. C. 2255 to 2206). The five colors of its plumage are supposed 
to be typical of the five cardinal virtues. As the lung or dragon has 
become the emblem of the Emperor, so the Jeng-hnanr/ has become 
that of the Empress. 
5-8. Tea-cups (4), with everted rim, of pure white, thin Hsiiante (1426 to 1435) porce- 
lain, with very delicate flower pattern, from which the paste has been excised 
and replaced by thin film of glaze to render it capable of holding liquid. 
Beautiful specimens of this style of decoration generally known in English 
as "lace-work" — the pieces ntioih'es of the Frencli. ]\Iark on foot Ta-mhig- 
hsilan-ti'-nieu-chih, "Made during the Hsiiante period of the Ming dynasty." 

9. Siitall fish-boiii of Hsiiante white porcehiin, with ornamentation of luang or 

unhorned dragons with pointed head among very conventional clouds, and 
geometrical pattei'n above running round brim, all incised in paste l>elow a 
palegreen or celadon glaze. ^lark on foot Ta-ming-hsuan-te-nien-chUi, ' ' ^lade 
during the Hsiiante period of the Ming dynasty." Height, 6| inches; diam- 
eter, 8 inches. 

The iiKwg would appear to be properly a huge SQi'pent or Ijoa constrictor. 
In paintings, however, and in sculpture it is usually represented as 
a lizard having a scowling head, with a beard at times depending 
from the chin, and four feet bearing claws but without talons. On 
the viaug-p'ao, i. e., mang robe, the court dress, no numg, properly 
speaking, appears, its place being taken ])y a four clawed or taloned 
dragon. 

10. Tall vase, in shape of bag, with long neck bound around with a rib])on tied in 

bow, of Ch'enghua (1465 to 1487) white porcelain covered with a yellow- 
black glaze. Height, 13| inches; diameter, 7| inches. 

11 Slender rase of pure white Ch'enghua porcelain; decoration, immortals or genii 
engaged in literary contests and attended by servants in rocky valley, witli 
bamboo thickets painted in bright l)lue under glaze. Mark Ta-mhig-cli'' eng- 
hua-nien-cliih, "Made during the Ch'enghua period of the Ming dynasty." 
Height, IO4 inches. 

134. Pencil-holder, circular in shape and very broad, of white Ch'enghua porcelain; 
decoration, which is in beautiful shade of blue under transparent glaze — a 
long poem from the pen of the celebrated poet Li Tai-po, of the Sung 
dynasty, inculcating the epicurean philosophy, which may be summed up in 
Horace's words, Carpe diem, quam mininie credula postero. The advice con- 
tained in the poem is being put into practice by a merry party round the 
festive board, whose actions seem to expre.ssthe wordsof the Latin author, 
Fruamnr bo)tis qiue siod; pretiosovino el imguentisvos i)nj)leamns, nan pnetereat 
nosflos temporis. No mark. Height, 6 inches; diameter, 61 inches. 



870 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, IftOO. 

12. Siii((ll. hoid to hold flowers or water for use on ink slab, of white Ch'engte (1506 

to 1521) porcelain, covered outside with milky blue glaze, inside plain, 
coarsely crackled inside and out. Mark T<t-in'ing-c}img-tc-nien-chiJi, "Made 
during the Ch'engte i)eriod of the Great I\Iing dynasty." Height, 2| inches; 
diameter, 4j inches. 

13. Jiir, of jjo/.(V/(e shape, of Wanli (1573 to 1619) white porcelain; decoration, flying 

fmg huang and dragons ( see No. 4 ) , with flowers between, and above a border 
of formal pattern, resembling inverted spearheads; cover has small pattern 
running round it with dragon on top; ornamentation throughout is engraved 
in paste and of bright yellow upon a vivid green ground. Mark T<i-ming- 
iruri-Ii-vioi-cJiilt, " INIade during the Wanli period of the Great Ming dynasty." 
Height, 6| inches; diameter, 6} inches. 

14. 15. Boivh (2), with scalloped brim, of white porcelain decorated with red and 

gold j)lum-blossoms, alternating with gourd-shaped vases having a decora- 
tion in gold on a blue ground or formal flowers, resembling pinks and chrys- 
anthemums in white, red, and gold, or all gold, upon a salmon-colored 
ground, with long twisted ribbons attached, the decoration passing from 
outside over the brim to inside, where at bottom, confined by a double circle, 
is a blue dragon in white, green, and red clouds. Round foot on outside is 
small pattern. Mai'ked as last, but decoration and caligrai)hy of date mark 
show the ware to be of Japanese manufacture. Height, 3 J inches; diameter, 
7| inches. 
16, 17. .T(irs (2), circular in shape, the walls rising perpendicularly, of Ming dynasty 
porcelain, decorated with iris and leaves boldly outlined in relief and cov- 
ered with thick glazes of different colors, the flowers being yellow and the 
leaves peacock-green upon a deej) aubergine grcaind; brim green, with a 
formal panel pattern outlined in relief round neck and colored alternately 
with same deep glaze (yellow and peacock-green), inside thin peacock-green 
glaze. Good specimen of this highly-prized ware. No mark. Height, 6J 
inches; diameter, 6| inches. 
18. Jar of white porcelain of Ming dynasty, of either Hsiiante (1426 to 1435) or 
Ch'enghua (1465 to 1487) period. Decoration, Pei-tow (the Northern Pole 
star) and Nan-tow (the Southern Pole star) playing chess on mountain 
road, with boy bearing a bundle of dry branchlets, and an inscription in seal 
(character, "Among the hills a thousand years seem but as seven days." 
Landscape and figures in lieautiful deep blue under glaze and in pale and dark 
green enamel colors. Above, a formal pattern encircles the jar below the 
neck, round which are small sprays of flowers in brick-red with leaves alter- 
nately green and blue. 

This rei)resents the well-known legend of Wang Chili, who, having wan- 
dered in theinoimtains of Ch'i'ichow to gather fire-wood, came upon 
two aged men, the Southern Pole star, the genius of longevity, and 
the Northern Pole star, the genius of death, intent ujion a game of 
chess. He laid down his ax and watched their game, in the course 
of which the former handed him something resembling a date-stone, 
which he was told to place in his mouth. No sooner had he tasted 
it than he became oblivious of hunger and thirst. After some time 
the donor turned to him and said, "It is long since you came here; 
you should go home now." Whereupon Wang Chih, proceeding to 
l)ick up his ax. found that the handle had moldered into dust. On 
reaching his home he fouud that centuries had elapsed since the 
time when he left it for the mountains, and that no vestige of his 
kinsfolk remained. Retiring to a retreat among the hills he devoted 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 871 

hiiii8t'lf to the rites of Taoism, and finally attaine<l to immortality.' 
Wanji Cliih is stated to have lived under the Chin dynasty in the 
third century B. C. Tlie apjiearance of this South Pole star is sup- 
posed to announee peace throu<iliout the world. 
19, 20. Jar^ (2) with covers, of the small pollrhe shape, of jiure white jiorcelain, with 
paintings in deep, dull blue under glaze, of children playing in garden and 
plucking tiowers from the trees; cover ornamented with children, similarly 
painted, in grotesque attitudes jjlaying. A reproduction of a popular Chinese 
l)ainting, the Po-tzu-t'n, "Drawing of (///. a hundred) Children." Mark on 
foot, a leaf, which makes these specimens date from the K'anghsi period 
(16H2to 1722), tliough the color is rather that of the :\Iing dynasty. Height, 
10 inches. 
21. Wnu'-iiot of creamy white ^Nling dynasty Chienning porcelain {('lueu-i/no), termed 
l^y the French blajic de Cliinc. Tall, circular in shape, tied at center with 
ribl)on. Spout formed by lizard with four legs and ))ranching tail, which 
clings to rim and turns head outward, the wine issuing from its mouth. The 
handle is formed l>y a similar animal twisting head downward from rim 
to center of vessel. Has closely-fitting cover, surmounted l)y a knob formed 
of a diminutive lizard curled into the form of a ball. Xo mark on foot. 
Height, 92 inches; diameter, :U inches. 
22-24. Setds (.3) of creamy white i\Iing dynasty Chienning porcelain (lilauc <Je Chine), 
one large and two smaller, cubes in shape, each surmounted l)y a lion as 
handle boldly molded in relief, with long, straight mane and tail, and curly 
hair down back. Nos. 22 and 24 represent a lioness with one cul). No mark. 
Height, Nos. 22 and 23, 2| inches; No. 24, 3 inches; diameter, Nos. 22 and 
23, If inches; No. 24, ]| inches. 
25. Pencil-holder, tall, circular in shape, of pure-white Ming dynasty porcelain, 
formed of sprays of lotus flowers and leaves admirably molded in relief 
and covered with lustrous, transparent glaze, the spaces between the flowers 
and leaves being excised to form , open-work. No mark; bottom unglazed. 
Height, 3| inches; diameter, 2J inches. 
171. Pened-vasher of white Ming porcelain, of globular form, with Icjw, open neck, 
and a liandle on either side formed of a grotesque lion's head molded in 
relief. Decoration consists of six genii riding on a sword, a carp, a tiger, 
a hat, a bunch of sticks, and a dragon, painted in a deep Ijlue through 
l)rick-red waves under glaze. Round neck and foot a narrow band of white 
studded with blue spots. Mark Ts'ai-hua-t'ang, the designation of a portion of 
some i)rinceiy palace not yet identified. Height, 2i inches; diameter, Scinches. 
The sage riding the waves upon the sword is Lii Fung-pin, stated to 
have been born A. D. 755. While holding office as magistrate of 
Te-hua, in modern Kiangsi, he is said to have met the immortalized 
Chung-li C'h'iian, who instructed him in the mysteries of alchemy. 
On his sul>sequently begging to be allowed to convert his fellow- 
countrymen to the true belief, he was, as a preliminary, exposed 
to ten temptations, which he successfully resisted. He was then 
invested with the formulas of magic and a sword of supernatural 
power, a,s the Taoist legends relate, with which he traversed the 
Empire during a period of four hundred years, killing dragons and 
ridding it of divers kinds of evils. In the twelfth century temples 
were erected to his honor under the title of Ch'un Yang. (Mayers, 
No. 467. ) 



^Mayers, Chinese Reader's Manual, No. 794. 



372 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

He of the carp is Kin-Kao, "a sage wiio lived in northern Cliina about 
tlie twelfth century. It it sai<l that he wandered over the i>rovince of 
Chihli for two centuries, and then, taking leave of his disciples 
with a promise to return l)y a certain day, he plunged into the river. 
When the appointed time for his reappearance arrived, the pupils, 
with a great multitude, assembled upon the banks, and, having 
duly bathed and jnirified themselves, made offerings to him. At 
length, in the sight of ten thousand persons, he sprang from the water 
riding upon a carj). .After tarrying with his friends for a month he 
again entered the river and was seen no more." ' 
The sage on tlie tiger is perhaps Chii Ling-jen, a rishi of marvelous 

powers. 

He on the bundle of sticks is perhajts Damma, son of a king in southern 

India, "who," says Mr. Anderson in his catalogue, p. 511, "was the 

tirst Chinese patriarch. Hearrived in China A. D. 520,and established 

himself in a temple in Loyang. During nine years of his stay there 

he remained buried in profound abstraction, neither moving nor 

speaking, and when he returned to consciousness of his surroundings 

his legs had l)ecome paralyzed 1)y long disuse. In the Buisn-zo-dzn-i 

it is said he came to Japan A. D. 618, and died on Mount Kataoaka. 

The Chinese, however, maintain he died and was buried in China, 

but that three years after his death he was met traveling toward 

India, with one foot bare, and when his tomb was opened by the 

Emperor's order it was found empty save for a cast-off shoe." 

The dragon genius isCh'en Nan, a sage possessed of supernatural powers 

to cure the sick, transmute metals, travel enormous distances, etc. 

Passing through a place where the inhabitants were praying for rain 

he stirred a pool where he knew a dragon lived, with a long iron 

pole. So plenteous a downpour at once ensued that all the rivers 

were filled. 

172-175. Plates (4 small) of white Ming dynasty porcelain, decorated inside, the 

genius of longevity accompanied by the spotted stag, amid waves and clouds 

in deep blue upon brick-red waves. On the outside are the eight immortals 

venerated by the Taoist sect, in blue on vermilion waves. Mark as on 

last. The decoration shows them to have been intended to hold sweetmeats 

during birthday ceremonies. 

The eight immortals venerated In- theTaoists areChung-liCh'iian, Chang 
Kiio, Lii Tung-pin, Ts'ao Kuo-ch'iu, LiTieh-kuai, Han Hsiang-tz'u, 
Lan Ts'ai-ho, and Ho Hsien-ku. Though some, if not all, of these 
personages had been previously venerated as immortals in Taoist 
legends, it would appear from the K't--yu-tK'ityig-k'ao (chap. 34) that 
their defined assemblage into a group of immortalized beings can 
not claim a higher antiquity than the Yiian dynasty — that is, the 
end of the thirteenth or beginning of the fourteenth century. 
Chung-Ii Ch'iian is reputed to have lived under the Chow dynasty (B. C. 
1122 to 256). Many marvelous particulars are narrated respecting 
his birth and career, in the course of which he metTung Hua Kung, 
the patriarch of the Genii, "who revealed to him the mystic formula 
of longevity and the secret of the power of transmutation, and of 
magic craft." He was eventually permitted to join the Genii, and 
has ai)i)eared from time to time as the messenger of Heaven. He is 
usually represented as a martial figure with a sword. 

' Anderson, Japanese and Chinese Paintings in British Museum, p. 236. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 373 

Chau<r Kuo is said to havf flourished tuward the close of the sexeiith and 
middle of the eighth eenturv. Leading an erratic life, he performed 
woiidi'rful feats of necromancy. His constant companion was a white 
mule which I'ould c-arry him thousands of miles in a single day, and 
which, when he halted, he folded up and hid away in his wallet. 
When heagain recjuired its services, he spurted water upon the packet 
from his mouth and the animal at once resumed its i^roper shape. 
According to Taoist legend, the Emperor Hsiian Tsung, of theT'ang 
dynasty, repeatedly urged him to visit his court and assume a 
priestly office there, but the ascetic wanderer rejected every offer. 
He is reputed to have entered immortality about 740 A. D. without 
suffering bodily dissolution. He is usually represented conjuring 
his nuile from a wallet or gourd, or holding an instrument of music. 

Lii Tung-pin said to have been born A. D. 755. While holding oflice 
at Te-hua, in modern Kiangsi province, he is reputed to have met 
Chung-li Ch'iian (see ante) among the Lu Mountains, and was 
instructed by him in the mj'steries of alchemy and the magic formula 
of the elixir of life. Having expressed a desire to convert his fel- 
low-men to the true belief, a series of temptations, ten in number, 
was imposed upon him as a preliminary. These he successfully 
overcame, and was thereupon invested with the formulas of magic 
and a sword of supernatural power, with which he traversed the 
Empire during a period of four hundred years, slaying dragons and 
ridding it of various kinds of evils. In the twelfth century temples 
were erected to him under the title of Ch'un Yang. Like Chung-li 
Ch'iian, he is usually depicted as of martial bearing, armed with a 
sword. 

Of Ts'ao Kuo-ch'in little is known. He is reputed to have been the son 
of Ts'ao-pin, the great military commander, who largely contributed 
to the establishment of the Sung dynasty upon the throne of China, 
and the brother of the Empress Ts'ao of the same dynasty. He 
would thus have lived in the eleventh century. He is usually 
represented as a military officer, holding a pair of castanets. 

Li T'ieh-kuai, or T'ieh-Kuai-Hsien-Sheng, ;. e., "Li of the Iron Staff," 
or "the gentleman of the Iron Staff." His birth is assigned to no 
precise era; his name, however, is stated to have l)een Li, and he is 
described as of commanding stature and of dignified mien. He was 
entireh' devoted to the study of Taoist lore, his instructor having 
been the philosopher Lao Tz'u himself, who for that purpose 
descended at times from Heaven and at others summoned his pupil 
to his celestial abode. "On one occasion, when about to mount on 
high," saj-s the legend as given by Mayers (No. 718), "at his pa- 
tron's bidding the pupil, before departing in spirit to voyage through 
the air, left a disciple of his own to watch over his material soul 
(/>'o), with the command that if, after seven days had expired, his 
spirit {Imn) did not return, the material essence might l)e dismissed 
into space. Unfortunately at the expiration of six days the watcher 
was called away to the deathbed of his mother, and, his trust being 
neglected, when the disembodied spirit returned on the evening of 
the seventh day it found its earthly habitation no longer vitalized. 
It therefore entered the first available refuge, which was the body 
of a lame and crooked beggar whose spirit had at that moment been 
exhaled, and in this shape the philosopher continued his existence, 
supporting his halting footsteps with an iron staff." Li T'ieh-kuai 



374 REPORT OF NATIONAL MITSEUM, UK)0. 

is, in coiiHequeiice, usually depicted as a lauie and ragged beggar 
exhaling his spiritual essence in the form of a shadowy miniature 
of his corp(»reaI form, or conjuring five l)ats, symbolical of the five 
kinds of hai)piness (see No. 27) from a gourd. 
Han Hsiang-tz'u is rejiuted to have been the grandson of the famous 
statesman, philosopher, and poet of the T'ang dynasty, and to have 
lived in tlie latter half of the ninth century. He was an ardent 
votary of transcendental study, and the pupil of Lii Tung-pin (see 
ante), himself one of the immortals, who appeared to him in the 
flesh. Having been carried up into the peach tree of the Genii (see 
Nos. 27 and 28), he fell from its branches, and in falling entered 
into immortality. He is usually depicted playing upon a flute or 
sitting upon a i^ortion of the trunk of a peach tree. 
Lan Ts'ai-ho is of uncertain sex, but usually reputed a female. The 
l'oi-j)'hi(j-ki((mg-chi states that she wandered abroad clad in a tattered 
l)lue gown, with one foot shoeless and the other sho<l, in sunmier 
wearing a wadded garment next the skin and in winter sleeping 
amid snow and ice. "In this guise," says Mayers, " the weird being 
begged a livelihood in the streets, waving a wand aloft and chant- 
ing a doggerel verse denunciatory of fleeting life and its delusive 
pleasures." Lan Ts'ai-ho is usually drawn as an aged man or as a 
female clad in leaves or rags, carrying a basket (?) to hold the alms 
given. 
Ho Hsien-Ku was the daughter of one Ho T'ai, a native of Tseng-ch'cng, 
near Canton, and was l)orn in the latter half of the seventh century. 
Born with six hairs growing on the top of her head, she at fourteen 
years of age dreamed that a spirit visited her and instructed her in 
the art of obtaining immortality by eating powdered mother-of-pearl. 
She complied with this injunction and vowed herself to a life of vir- 
ginity. Her days were henceforth passed in solitary wanderings 
among the hills, among which she moved as on wings, to gather 
herbs, and eventually renounced all mortal food. Her fame having , 
reached the ears of the Empress Mu, a concubine endowed with a 
masterful intellect, who succeeded in usurping the sovereign power, 
and who, l)ut for a revolution, would have de^iosed the dynasty of 
T'ang, she was sunnnoned to court, but vanislied from mortal sight 
on her way thither. She is said to have been seen once more, in 
A. D. 750, floating upon a cloud at the temple of the Taoist immortal 
Ma-Ku, and again some years later near Canton. She is sometimes 
represented clothed in a mantle of mugwort leaves and holding a 
lotus flower. 
26. /)Vrw/ of white K'anghsi (1(562 to 1722) porcelain, with scalloped edges dividing 
the vessel into eight flattened sections, each filled with a scene admirably 
painted, chiefly in l)lue, but with small details in enamel green, <m a ground 
inside and out of deep yellow under thick transparent glaze. These paint- 
ings are copies from celebrated pictures, drawn by a famous artist named 
Fei of the Yuan dynasty, i. e., latter half of the twelfth or early in thirteenth 
century, illustrative of the pleasures of the Hsi-yuan or Western Park. At 
bottom inside, a man holding a jar, also in blue. An admirable specimen of 
a highly prized ware. Mark 7}i-ch'ing-k'atig-}i!<i-nien-chih, " ^lade during the 
K'anghsi period of the Great Pure or Ch' ing ( the present) dynasty. ' ' Height, 
3| inches; diarneter, 7f inches. 

Of this ware the Ambassade de la Compagnie Orientale des Provinces 
Unis vers I'Empereur de la Chine ou Grand Can de Tartarie fait par 



Repoit of U. S, National Museum, 1 900.— Hippisley. 



Plate 1. 




rp]KAMIC ART IN CHINA. 875 

les Sitnirs Pierre <le (royer et Jacol) de Keysor (Leydeii, 1()()5), and 
the Travels from JNIuscovy to ('hina, \)y E. Ysliraiit Ides, Ambassa- 
dor from Peter the (Treat to the Emperor of China in 1692 (pub- 
lished in Harris's Collection of Voyages), say: "'The finest, richest, 
and most valuable china is not exported, at least very rarely, par- 
ticularly a yellow ware, which is destined for the imperial use, and 
is prohibited to all other persons." 
The HKl-Yuan was a park laid out by Yang Ti (A. D. 60r> to 616), of the 
Sui dynasty. It was over 60 miles in circuit, and "exhausted the 
utmost degrees of splendor and beauty. When the foliage became 
decayed and fell, it was replaced upon the trees by leaves of silk. 
Here the imperial debauche was accustomed to ride on moonlit 
nights, accompanied by a cavalcade of thousands of the inmates of 
h is seraglio. ' ' ( Mayers. ) 
lioirl of pure white K'anghsi porcelain, wide spreading, decorateil on ontaidc with 
mythological subjects admirably painted in great detail and with great deli- 
cacy of brush in the characteristic tones of the latter half of this reign, 
vermilion-red and enamel colors. Inside &hvA\w\\ of the peach tree, bearing 
one fruit and several leaves, in green, shaded and varied with darker tints of 
the same color, with the exception of two, which show a great variety of 
shades of decay, the veins alone remaining in parts; on the peach, which, as 
here, is usually pointed in China, is the character Sltoa (longevity) in the 
"seal" style in gold. An almost unique specimen of the highest style of 
decoration during the period when the manufacture of porcelain had reached 
its highest point. (See Plate 1.) 

This bowl from its decoration was undoubtedly intended for use in the 
palace on the occasion of an imperial birthday. The peach is one 
of the emblems of longevity, from a legend which traced them to the 
gardens of the fairy Hsi Wang-Mu, where they ripened ])ut once in 
three thousand years, and conferred tliat term of life iip(jn those who 
were fortunate enough to taste them. Tlie legend runs thus: "In 
the first year of the period Yuan feng in the Hau dynasty (B. C. 110) 
the fairy Hsi Wang had descended from her mountain realm to visit 
tlie Emperor Wu Ti, bringing with her seven peaches. She ate two 
of the number, and upon the Einperor expressing a wish to preserve 
the seed, she told him that the tree from which they came bore once 
only in three thousand years, but each fruit conferred three centuries 
of life upon the eater. At that moment she perceived Tung-Fang- 
so peeping at her through th^ window, and, ]>ointing to him, said: 
'That child whom j'ou see yonder has stolen three of my peaches 
and is now nine thousand years old.' " ' The gum of the peach tree 
mixed with muHierry ash is used as an elixir ritie by the Taoists.'- 
The tiecoration on the outside is an adaptation of the allegorical re])re- 
sentation of the jirayer for "hapjiiness, distinction, and longevity" 
(fu-lao-»liou), met with in Chinese paintings under many forms, but 
always with the same general characteristics. One of the immortals, 
the great sage Lao Tz'u, accompanied by attendants, the crane 
{(U-us viridirostris Veillot), the stag, the hairy tortoise, all emblems 
of long life; another, Li T'ich-kuai, with attendants, evolving from a 
gourd contracted at the center, five bats, emblematic of the five bless- 
ing.s — longevity, riches, peacefulness and serenity, the love of virtue, 
and an end crowning the life — the Chinese characters for bat and 
happiness having the same pronunciation. 



1 Mayers, Chinese Reader's Manual, No. 572. ■'Idem, No. 707. 



376 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

28-;)l. I'litdti (4) of wliito jiorcelain. Hyi Wang Mu, depicted as a beautiful female 
in the ancient ChineHe dress, is represented accompanied by one of her 
attendant maiilens holding a tray containing peaches and other articles, and 
1 ly the spotted stag, symbolical of longevity, very delii-ately painted in enamel 
colors. The rim is ornamented with a narrow band in vermilion red of 
detached flowers of the Chinese peony {Pxonia moutan) and of butterflies. 
Mark Ta-Ming-ch'eiig-hua-nie.n-chih, "Made during the Ch'enghua period 
(1465 to 1487) of the great Ming or Bright (dynasty);" the colors and style 
of i)ainting, however, point rather to the K'anghsi period as that of their 
manufacture. Diameter, 6| inches. 

Hsi Wang Mu, literally Royal Mother of the West, is the legendary 
(jueen of the (lenii, who is supposed to have dwelt in a palace in 
central Asia among the K'unlun ^lountains, where she held court 
with her fairy legions. Upon some slight allusions to this personage 
in earlier works the philosopher Lieh Tz'u, in the fifth century, 
B. C, based a fanciful and perhaps allegorical tale of the entertain- 
ment with which King Mu of the Chou dynasty was honored and 
enthralled by the fairy (jueen during his famous journeyings B. C. 
985. In later ages the superstitious vagaries of the Emperor Wu Ti 
of the Hau dynasty gave rise to innumerable fables respecting the 
alleged visits paid to that monarch by Hsi Wang Mu and her fairy 
troop; and the imagination of the Taoist writers of the ensuing cen- 
turies was exercised in glowing descriptions of the magnificence of 
her mountain palace. Here, by the borders of the Lake of Gems, 
grows the peach tree of the Genii, whose fruit confers the gift of 
immortality, bestowed by the goddess upon the favored beings 
admitted to her presence, and hence she dispatches the azure- winged 
birds, Ch' ing-niao, which serve, like Venus' s doves, as her attendants 
and messengers. In process of time a consort was found for her in 
the person of Tung Wang Kung, or King Lord of the East, whose name 
is designed in obvious imitation of her own, and who appears to owe 
many of his attributes to the Hindoo legends respecting India. By 
the time of the Sung dynasty (the tenth century, A. D. ) a highly 
mystical doctrine respecting the pair, represented as the first created 
and creative results of the powers of nature in their primary process 
of development, was elaborated in the Kuang-Clii. The more sober 
research of modern writers leads to the suggestion that Wang Mu 
was the name either of a region or of a sovereign in the ancient West. 
ii2, :'>:-'>. Bi)ii-/s (a })air), everted, of thin white K'anghsi porcelain decorated with the 
eighteen Lolum or ArhUx in groups, very delicately painted in vermilion. 
Mark as in No. 26. Height, 2| inches; diameter, 6 inches. 

In his Handljook of Chinese Buddhism, Dr. Eitel says that the orig- 
inal meaning of Arhat ("deserving" ) is overlooked by most Chinese 
commentators, who explain the term as though it were written Arihat, 
"destroyer of the enemy," i.e., of the passions, and "not to be 
reborn," *. c, exempt from transmigration. A third explanation, 
l»ased on the original conception, is "deserving of worship." The 
Arhat is the perfected Arya, and can therefore only be attained by 
passing through the different degrees of saintship. It implies the 
possession of supernatural powers, and is to be succeeded either by 
Buddhaship or by inmiediate entrance into Nirvana. In popular 
acceptation, however, it has a wider range, designating not only the 
perfected saint, but all the disciples of S'akyamuni, and thus it 
includes not only the smaller circles of eighteen and five hundred 
disciples, but also the largest circle of one thousand two hundred. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 377 

The tirt^t Sutra (that of forty-two sections) \va.s translated into Chinese 
in the year A. D. 67, during the time of the Later or Eastern Han 
dynasty, whose capital was at Loj-ang in Honan province, by Kas'- 
yapa Matanga, a disciple of S'tikyamuni, who entered China with 
Han ^ling-ti's embassy on its return from Badakshan. By its means 
the Buddhist doctrines first became known in China. Sucli trans- 
lations from the Sanskrit form the earliest and still continue to be the 
most important i)art of Chinese Buddhistic literature; ])ut from the 
fifth century onward they have been supplemented by original com- 
positions in the Chinese language from the pens of native adherents 
to that religion. During the first eight centuries of the existence of 
the Buddhistic religion in China the smallest circle of S'akyamuni's 
disciples comprised the same number as in India, sixteen, which was 
increased under the T'ahg dynasty, in the ninth century, A. D., by 
the enrollment of two additional disciples to its present complement 
in China — eighteen. 
34, 3o. Bowls (2), everted, of thin white K'anghsi porcelain. Replicas of Nos. 'A2, 33, 
but of larger size. Mark, same as in Xo. 26. Diameter, 6| inches. 

36. H7»('-c»;^, tall, everted, of thin white K'anghsi porcelain; ornamentation: Between 

boniers of Grecian pattern are diamond-shaped panels containing the p(i-kua, 
in deep-blue under transparent glaze. ^lark, as al)ove. Height, 3 ifiches; 
diameter, 3J inches. 

The pa-kna, or eight diagrams, are the combinations which may l)e formed 
of three lines, Avhole or divided into two equal jjarts. They are said 
to have been developed by Fuh-hi, the legendary founder of Chinese 
polity, who is believed to have lived from B. C. 2852 to 2738 liy aid 
of a plan or arrangement of figures revealed to him on the back of a 
"dragon-horse." These eight figures, which can be traced bai-k to 
the trto primary forms representing the first development of the ]'/» 
and Yank (the primordial essences) from the ritimate Principle, 
together with certain presumjitive explanations attributed to Fuh-hi, 
were the basis, according to Chinese belief, of an ancient system of 
philo.sophy and divination during the centuries preceding the area 
of Wen Wang (twelfth century, B. C ), but of which no records have 
been preserved beyond the traditional names of its schools. Wen 
Wang, the founder of the Chou dynasty, while undergoing imprison- 
ment (B. C. 1144) at the hands of the tyrant Shou, devoted himself 
to study of the diagrams, and appended to each of them a short 
explanatory text. These explanations, with certain amplifications by 
his son, Chou Kung, constitute the work known as the " Book of 
Changes" of the Chou dynasty, which, with the commentary added 
l)y Confucius, forms the Yih Ching, the Canon of Changes, the most 
venerated of the Chinese classics. In this work, which serves as a 
basis for the philosophy of divination and geomancy, and is largely 
appealed to as containing not alone the elements of all metaphysical 
knowledge but also a clue to the secrets of nature and of being the 
entire system reposed upon these eight diagrams, a ceaseless process 
of revolution is held to be at work, in the course of which the vari- 
ous elements or properties of nature indicated by the diagrams mutu- 
ally extinguish and give birth to one another, thus producing the 
phenomena of nature.' 

37. la.st' of white K'anghsi porcelain, i i the shape of a gourd contracted in the mid- 

dle {hu-lu), having a vine trailing over it, from which hang large l)unchesof 

'Mayers, Chinese Reader's Manual, p. 333. 
NAT MU8 li<(»() 27 



378 u?:p«»kt of national museum, 190(). 

•rrapi-s nil which a s<iuirrel if^ feeding, in various shades of blue undera tran»- 
jmront glaze. Mark, as above. Height, 4^ inches. 

This is a well-known Chinese motive. "The first picture of the squirrel 
and the vine" (says Anderson, catalogue of Japanese and Chinese 
j)aintings in the British Museum, No. 747) "appears to have been 
])ainted by Wing Yiian-chang, a famous artist of the Sung dynasty, 
A. D. 9H0 to 1259, ami has been repeated by innumerable copies in 
China and Japan." 
3S, 3!). Plates (a pair) of white K'anghsi ]iorcelain, having a large-sized character in 
center, believed to be Thibetan, surrounded on the sides by three concentric 
lines of smaller characters of similar type; on outside are three similar lines 
of characters in deep blue under transparent glaze. Mark, as above. Diam- 
eter, 5i inches. 
40,41. /)'o(/'/.s- (a i)air) of thin white K'anghsi porcelain. Ornamentation on outside 
consists of a delicately-drawn band of waves on lower portion where bowl 
springs from foot, with the pa-kun or eight diagrams (see No. 36) above. 
Inside, within double circle, at bottom, the ybi and yang, all in deep blue 
under transparent glaze. Mark, as above. Height, 2| inches; diameter, 4| 
inches. 

The circle represents the ultimate principle of "being," which is divided 
by a curving line into two equal portions, the positive and negative 
essences, ynng and yin, respectively. Yang, the more lightly-colored 
portion, corresponds to light, heaven, masculinity, etc. ; yin, the more 
darkly colored, to darkness, earth, femininity, etc. To 'the intro- 
duction of these two essences are due all the phenomena of nature. 
42, 43. Jioirls (a pair), small, everted, of white K'anghsi porcelain, plain inside. 
Decorated on outside with iris, grasses, longevity fungus {Ihig chih, a species 
of (?) polyporus) , tea-roses, and other flowers delicately painted in enamel 
colors upon a brick-red or vermilion ground. Mark, K^ang-hsi-yu-chih, 
'•Made by special order of Emjieror K'anghsi." Height, 2j inches; diame- 
ter, 4\ inches. 
44, 4o. riates (a pair) of white K'anghsi porcelain, having a "sitting" imperial five- 
clawed dragon on center, and similar flying dragons (see No. 4) amid clouds 
arotmd the shelving side. Engraved in the paste under a thick deep-blue 
glaze (hicn dc rol) which covers the entire plate inside and out, except the 
foot, on which appears within a double circle Tn-ch^mg K^ang-hsi-nun-rhih, 
"Made during the K'anghsi period of the Great Pure (the present) dynasty." 
Diameter, 9|^ inches. 

46. Boirl, large, everted, of pure white K'anghsi porcelain, plain inside. On outside 

is a branch of peach tree bearing fruit and leaves, the latter in all stages 
from the light green of the newly burst leaf to the brown of the withered 
and worm-eaten, admirably painted. On the branch is seated a large bird, 
termed by the Chinese a paroquet, but having a red beak, brown breast, 
green plumage around neck and l)elow it, with brown on back, and black 
and gray wings and tail. A fine specimen. ]\Iark, as above. Height, 3i 
inches; diameter, SJ inches. (See Plate 1.) 

47, 4s. \Vinc-cup» (a pair), small, with straight lips, of white K'anghsi porcelain, 

covered outside with a monochrome dull glaze of violet magenta; plain 
inside, except at bottom, where are two plums and some beans delicately 
painted. Mark, as above. Height, If inches; diameter, 3^ inches. 
49-52. liaiih (4), everted, of white K'anghsi porcelain, having imperial five-clawed 
flying dragons (see No. 4) engraved in paste, over which are sprays of roses 
and plum-blossoms, buds and leaves of various shades of green, open flowers 
an<l butterflies alternately yellow and aubergine purple-brown under a trans- 
l>arent glaze. Mark, as above. Height, 2^ inches; diameter, b\ inches. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Hippisley. 



Plate 2. 





rEKAMir ART IN (IIINA. 879 

5;i. I'nsr, of square body, i-ontratrtiiig to form short, fircular, everted iiei'k, on wliich 
above each side of the body is the character for "longevity," shuu, in four 
out of the hundred forms it may take in the "seal" style of writing. The 
four sides of the body bear two paintings in the distinctive colors of la Jatiiillr 
rcrte, one of the famous club of the seven worthies of the bamboo grove 
anuising themselves with nuisic, chess, and wine; the other a historical scene 
representing an ancient general on his way to attack the Man-tz'u, or South- 
ern Chinese, giving audience .during a halt upon the banks of the Yangtse. 
Between the paintings are lengthy disquisitions suggested by the subjects of 
the drawings. As these are dated ' ' the 29th day of the 9th moon of the year 
of the cyclic characters Kwel ino,^' that is, 1703, it is justifiable to conclude 
that is the date of the vase, that being the only year to which these charac- 
ters would apply during K'anghsi's reign to which the coloring shows it to 
belong. Mark, a leaf. Height, 18| inches. (See Plate 2.) 

The club of the seven worthies of the bamboo grove was an association 
of convivial men of letters, formed in the latter half of the third 
century, who were accustomed to meet for learned discussions and 
jovial relaxation in a grove of bamboos. The seven worthies were 
Hsiang Tz'u-Ch'i; Chi Shu-yeh, a celebrated functionary and man 
of letters, but no less renowned as a lover of the wine-cup and as a 
musician. He was also an ardent devotee of alchemy. Incurring 
the displeasure of Ss'u-ma Chao, minister of the last sovereign of 
the house of Wei, he was executed as a propagator of magic arts and 
heretical doctrines, when he showed his contemj)tof death by tuning 
his guitar on the way to execution; Lin Po-lun, who was wholly 
devoted to joviality and wished he could be accompanied by a grave- 
digger to at once inter him should he fall dead over his i-ups; 8han 
Chii-yuan, a statesman, under Wu Ti of the T'ang dynasty, cele- 
brated for the patronage he extended to rising talent; WangChi'in- 
chung, a minister of Hwei Ti of the house of Chin, at once infamous 
for his avarice and for having intrusted the discharge of his duties 
to base underlings that he might altandon himself to a life of extrava- 
gance and pleasure; Yi'ian Chung-jung, famous as a lover of music 
and wine, and as a philosoi)her studying content and nioileration 
in preference to the ways of ambition; and Yiian Tz'u-tsung, uncle 
of the last, a pu))lic functionary, but preferring the (luietism preached 
l)y the philos()i)hers Lao-tze and Chuang-tze, whose follower he 
professed himself to be, to tlie toils of public life.' 
54, 55. J 'Idles (a i)air) of white K'anghsi porcelain, decorated inside with a painting 
in natural colors of the great Taoist sage and philosopher Lao-tze, with lofty 
head, seated under a tree; his attendant is preparing writing materials for 
his use. Round the brim are the eight Buddhistic emblems joined by con- 
ventional foliage of natural color, but of paler tones than the central design. 
Mark, as on No. 44. Diameter, 6J inches. 

Lao-tze was the founder of the Taoist system of philosoi)hy. He is said 
to have been surnamed Li and named Erh, l)ut his history is almost 
altogether legendary. His l)iography, as given by the great histo- 
rian Ss'u-ma Cliien, who wrote the first comprehensive survey of the 
history of China from the legendary period of Huangti down to B. C. 
104, contains, however, some particulars which may be considered 
authentic. According to this account he was the keeper of the records 
at Lo, the capital of the Chou dynasty, about the close of the sixth 
century B. C, and professed a doctrine of abstraction from worldly 



'Mayers, Chinese Reader's Manual, Nos. 246, 411, 587, 799, 96;5, 968. 



380 KEPURT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

cares based upon speculations regarding Too, Reason, and Ti, Virtue. 
This excited tlie curiosity of Confucius, who is said to have visited 
him and to liave retired disconcerted at his hold flights of imagina- 
tion. The veracity of the statement regarding this meeting is, how- 
ever, open to doubt. After a long i)eriod of service Lao-tze is said 
to have retired to the West, after confiding to Yin Hsi, the keeper of 
the frontier i)ass of Han Ku, a written statement of his philosophy, 
the Tau-tc-cliliKj, or Classic of. Reason and Virtue. Later mystics 
improved upon this account by assigning a period of mythical 
antiquity and a miraculous conception through the influence of a 
star to Lao-tze's birth, alleging him to have been the incarnation of 
the supreme celestial entity. According to the Lieh-hsien-ch'uan. an 
account of the Taoist genii, he became incarnate B. C. 1321, in the 
State of Ts'u. His mother brought him forth from her left side 
beneath a plum tree, to which he at once pointed, saying: "I take 
my surname (namely, Li, a plum) from this tree." When born 
his head was white and his countenance that of an aged man, from 
which circumstance he derived his name of Lao-tze, the Old Child. 
The remainder of the account resembles that given above, except 
that he is made to live for centuries, eventually retiring to the AVest 
about B. C. 1080. No countenance is given, however, in the writ- 
ings ascribed to his pen to supernaturalism of any kind, and the 
legends regarding his life have evidently been largely colored by 
the accounts given by Buddhistic writers of the life of S'ukyamuni. 
The ideas contained in the Tao-te-cliiii;/ of Lao-tze, which has been 
translated into English, French, and German, are thus sunnned up 
by Mr. INIayers:^ "Creation proceeding from a vast, intangible, 
impersonal first principal, self-existent, self-developing, the mother 
of all things. The operation of this creative principle fulfilled in 
the nature of man, the highest development of which again is to 
V)e sought for in a return through 'quietism' and 'non-action' to 
the mother principle. The highest good is accordingly to be 
enjoyed in a transcendental al)straction from worldly cares, or 
freedom from mental perturbation. In a doctrine such as this it 
is not ditticult to trace at least a superficial likeness to the theories 
of Brahminism, and whether originally derived from Hindu thought 
or not it is probable that the cultivation of Lao-tze's teachings 
had a potent influence in preparing the way for an influx of the 
metaphysical speculations of Indian philosophers to satisfy a mental 
craving not provided for in the simple materialism which Confucius 
expounded. At least the latitude allowed by the vagueness of Lao- 
tze's writings both enabled and encouraged his so-called disciples 
and adherents to graft upon the leading notions of his text an 
entirely adventitious code of natural and psycliical philosophy, 
which, on the one hand, expanded into a system of religious belief, 
a simple travesty of Buddhism, and, on the other, l)ecame devel- 
oped into a school of mysticism, founded apparently upon the early 
secrets of the professions of healing and divination, from whence 
it rose to occult researches in the art of transmuting metals into 
gold and insuring longevity or admission into the ranks of the 
genii. To all these professions and pretensions the title of the 
religion or teachings of Tao was given, although they were in reality 



' Chinese Reader's Manual, No. 336. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 381 

in no Avise conntpnanced by tlie doctrines of Lao-tze liiniself. His 
profetJfied disciples, Lieh T7,e and Chuang Tze in the fourth century, 
and Huai Nan Tze in the second century P>. C, jirogressively devel- 
oped the mystic element thus introduced, and a notable impetus 
accrued to it from the superstitious belief with which the preten- 
sions of the alchemists were received by the Emperor Wu Ti, from 
whose period onward the reverence paid to the founder of the sect 
began to assume a divine character." In A. D. 666 he was for the 
first time ranked among the gotls, being canonized by the Emperor 
as "The Great Supreme, the Emperor of the Dark First Cause," 
and his title was again enlarged in 1013. The achievement of cor- 
poreal immortality having been the chief aim of the sect named 
after him, the founder, Lao-tze, naturally came to be considered 
the Ciod of Longevity, and as such he figures in all the paintings 
symbolical of a prayer for "dignity, happiness, and long life," 
being usually depicted as an aged man leaning upon a staff, his head 
being of abnormally lofty proportions. 
The pa-chi-hmmg or "eight lucky emblems" are of Buddhistic origin 
and derived from India. Formed in clay or of wood, they are 
offered on Buddhistic altars, and largely enter into the architectural 
decoration of the temples. They are found with variations both of 
shape and of detail. In their ordinary form they are: 

(1) A bell (cJnuig), or more usually a wheel {h(n), chalra, the wheel of 
the law, with fillets. 

(2) A univalve shell (lo), the chank shell of the Buddhists, with fillets. 

(3) A state umbrella {mn), with fillets. 

(4) A canopy (hii), with fillets. 

(5) A lotus-flower {lieti-hua), without fillets; sometimes represented as 
a Pseonia moutan. 

(6) A vase with cover {ktuin), with fillets. 

(7) Two fishes (erJi yi'i), united by fillets. Said by some to be figurative 
of domestic happiness. 

(8) An angular knot with fillets, termed cli'diig, the intestines, an 
emblem of longevity. 

Another style of decoration, also consisting of eight emlilems, is that 
known as the jM-paa, or "eight precious things;" they vary consid- 
erably in form, and the explanations of their meaning are unreliable 
and conflicting. The more usual forms, all of which bear fillets, are: 
(1) an oblate spherical object {cMn), representing a pearl; (2) a 
hollow disk inclosing an open square, possibly a copper rush em- 
blematical of riches; (3) an open lozenge, placed horizontally; (4) 
a lozenge placed horizontally, with a section of a second lozenge in 
the upper angle; (5) an object resembling in shape a mason's square 
— the sonorous stone ching, eml)lematic by symphony of "good- 
ness," " happiness;" (6) two oblong objects placed side by side, pos- 
sibly books; (7) two rhinoceros horns shaped into quadrangular 
form; (8) a leaf of the Artemisia, an emblem of good augury. Other 
forms found in these emblems are a branch of coral, a silver ingot, 
a cake of ink; and the shell, lotus-flower, and fishes belonging prop- 
erly to the "eight lucky emblems." 
56, 57. PlaieK (a j)air)of thin pure white K 'anghsi porcelain, having a flying Feng Inumg 
and an imperial five-clawed dragon (see No. 4) amid clouds contained by a floral 
scroll pattern within bands, all engraved in the paste. Round the rim is a 
border of bats .«et close to one another in vermilion red; and in center within 
a nicdullion. are the characters Itung-fn-rli'i-t'ini "great happini'ss fills the 



382 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

heaven," in the old seal form enjjraved in the paste from beneath the foot, 
but reversed so that they read cctrrectly on the upper side of the plate. 
Mark, Tn-ch'ing-k'(tu(j-bdvirn-vhih, "made during the K'anghsi period of the 
great Pure Dynasty." Diameter, 7| iiuhes. 
58, ri9. Plates {a pair) of white K'anghsi porcelain, for use on birthday occasions 
in the palace. The ornamentation consists in the center of the plate of a 
large .s'/(o/( (longevity) character in ))lue, containing a pointed peach of the 
genii in enamel glaze, upon which i.^ represented a stork {Grus viridiroMli^ 
Veillot) in blue (the peach and stork being emblems of immortality, see 
X(j. 27). Kound this medallion is entwined conventional foliage in enamel 
colors, branching ai)art to afford eight spaces, in which are alternately a 
peach and the character shou in gold on blue medallion. Outside, on the 
rim, light-green bamboo stalks spring from rocks on which grows the red 
fungus of the immortals {ling ckih). Mark as in last. Diameter, 8^ inches. 
60. Vase, circular in shape, of white K'anghsi porcelain, belonging to the famille 
vertc. On it is represented a garden with a pavilion in the rear. In it the 
seven worthies of the bamboo grove (see No. 53) are depicted engaged in 
chess-playing, music, and writing upon the rocks, the main picture being 
confined by bands of arabesque ornaments interrupted by panels, containing 
scholars" requisites, books, scrolls, etc., and above, around the neck, a rod- 
fishing scene. Mark as above. Height, 18^ inches. (See Plate 3.) 
61-68. Panels (8) of white K'anghsi porcelain, bearing representations of famous 
scenes from the celebrated historical novel San kuo-chih, or Records of the 
Three Kingdoms. This work, the most popular of its kind in China, details 
the triangular contest engaged in for the throne between Liu Pei, assisted 
l)y Chu-Ko-liang, Chang Fei, and Kuan Yii and Ts'ao Ts'ao, after his defec- 
tion from Liu Pei, and the Sun family, which resulted in the partition of 
the Empire among the houses of Han of Szechueii^ of Wu and of Wei, 
founded, respectively, by Liu Hsiian-te, Sun Chung-mou and Ts'ao Meng-te 
(A. D. 220 to 280). 
69-76. Panels (8) of white K'anghsi porcelain decorated with flowers and butterflies 
in enamel colors and gold, surrounded by a border of the same upon a jjale- 
green ground j)icked out with black. 

These panels were originally in the form of bricks of about an inch and 
a quarter thickness. It was customary in the seventeenth and 
eighteenth centuries for princes to have large couches, 6 to 8 feet in 
length and having two end pieces, of ebony beautifully carved. The 
one I have seen had five of these square porcelain panels or bricks 
let into the back with a circular panel above the central one of 
the five, and one in either end piece. They were so fixed by means 
of square projections from the wood-setting w'hich fitted into corre- 
sponding holes left for the purpose in the bricks that one surface 
showed on either side of the setting with a rich and pretty effect, 
one surface displaying some historical scene, the other a group of 
flowers. Good specimens are now comparatively rare, and are 
much sought after by foreigners to saw in half for the manufacture 
of caclie-])ols. 
77, 78. Panels (2) of white K'anghsi porcelain, of similar origin to the a])ove, but of 

inferior style of i>ainting. 
79. liricL- (small) of white K'anghsi porcelain, showing the appearance of Nos. 61 to 
78 in their original condition, before tlie surface plates had been sawn away 
from the central portion into which fltted the wooden projections serving to 
keep the porcelain ornamentation in its position in the couch. 

' Mayers, CHiinese Reader's Manual, No. 134. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 900.— Hippisiey. 



Plate 3. 




CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 383 

80. T''(.sr of white K'anghsi porcelain; shape, slender po^'c/*^. The ornamentation in 

chief seems to (lej)ict a young officer leaving his post after a virtuous tenure 
of office, which has won for him not only promotion from the Emperor tjut 
also the love of the people he has ruled over. A young man dressed in pink 
is represented riding a piebald horse. (In the time of K'anghsi the Man- 
chu officers despised and ridiculed Chinese luxury and ceremony, and with 
them the sedan chairs they have in later days adojjted, with almost all else 
that is Chinese, from the ccmquered nation; and rode on horseback with l)ut 
few attendants.) Over him an attendant is Iiolding an official umbrella, 
which from its three flowers of different colors would appear to be a nxut- 
viin<j-mi), or "umbrella of ten tiiousand names," an offering made to a vir- 
tuous and upright officer on his departure from his post by a grateful people, 
and so called from the fact that it bears upon it the names of the donors 
either embroidered or in black velvet applMjue. He is preceded by men 
bearing lanterns and followed by an attendant carrying a scroll wrapped in 
imperial yellow silk, indicative of a communication from the throne. Round 
the part where the vase diminishes in size runs a band of floral pattern on a 
pink ground interrupted )iy panels containing grotesque representations of 
dragons, the whole bounded on either side by bands of a geometric pattern 
inblue — all painted seemingly above the glaze. Nomark. Height, 10| inches. 

81. ]'(iKe of pure white K'anghsi porcelain, tall, the body bellying out from the foot 

and then gradually tapering upward. On one side is a character shou (lon- 
gevity), on the other the character/*' (happiness) in a diaper pattern in 
black upon a dark enamel green. In tlie center of each of these characters 
is a medallion about 4 inches in diameter, containing mythological repre- 
sentations appropriate to the character in which it is placed. On the for- 
mer is the Crenius of Longevity (as Lao Tze, see No. 54) riding a white 
stork into the midst of the Immortals. On the latter Tung Wang Kung, the 
consort of the Queen of the Fairies (see No. 28), is handing a babj' the elixir 
of life, while another of the sages stands by holding the ju-i. Where the 
body of the vase springs from the foot is a band of formal geometric pattern 
and round the rim is a border of flowers on dark grey ground interrupted by 
white {)anels inclosing flowers, the whole supported by a narrow band of geo- 
metrical design. A beautiful specimen of K 'anghsi ware. Height, 16^ inches. 
The ju-i is a curved baton, generally carved in jade or some other valu- 
able material. It is probably of Buddhistic origin, as it is one of 
the seven precious things (Sansk. Sapta RdtiKi) and appears in 
Buddhist pictures in the hands of priests of high rank. It is also 
regarded as a symbol of the power of the faith. In China it is com- 
monly considered an emblem of good luck, its name signifying 
"(May all be) as you wish," and is therefore frequently used as a 
present to friends or at a wedding. It is also a sign of authority, 
owing to the fact that it is believed to have been used in India as a 
scepter. (See Plate 3. ) 

82. Vfise of j)ure white K'anghsi porcelain, tall, circular in shape, the outline rising 

• Most perpendicularly, but with a slight slojjc outward, then contracting 
gracefully to neck, which everts at brim. A child holding in his hand a 
pink lotus flower {Nelumbium speciosum) is being presented to a tall Rishi 
(? Lao Tze) standing, dressed in embroidered robes of pink, with Tung 
Wang Kung (see No. 28) dressed in robes of yellow and blue and holding in 
his hand the peach of the Genii. On neck are sprays of bamboo and the 
fungus {li7ig chih) of the Immortals. A beautiful specimen of K'anghsi ware. 
The figures are large, Lao Tze being 8 inches in, height, and painted with con- 
siderable force and attention to detail. Height, 171 inches. (See l^late 4. ) 



384 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1990. 

83. VoKi of white iwrcelain, small, with swellinir Ixxly suddenly contracting to form 

long, tapering neck, covered with the deep red glaze known as lang yao or 
mng-de-bceuf, which has retreated from brim, though vase is colored inside. 
No mark. Height, 4^ inches. 

84. T «,sr of white porcelain, pen-shaped, with short, narrow, everted neck. Covered 

with a deep green glaze, termed by the Chinese lu-hmg-yao or green lang 
ware. (Regarding the origin of the Chinese designation of the ware repre- 
sented by tliis and the preceding specimen, see page 346.) The glaze is 
coarsely crackled inside and out. This is the only specimen of green lang-yao 
I have ever seen. No mark. Height, 7f inches. 

85. 86. Platex (a pair) of pure white Yungcheng (1723 to 1735) porcelain. Ornamen- 

tation (insists of two branches of the peach tree, one bearing pink, the other 
white blossoms. The branches spring from the foot, and, after spreading 
over the outside, cross the brim to cover the inside. Five peaches, varying 
from deep red at the pointed end to green near stem, are delineated on the 
inside and three on the outside. Above the flowers hover three bats on 
inside of plate and two on outside, thus forming a Chinese expression pa-t'ao- 
vm-fn, the eight peaches and the five forms of happiness (see No. 27), equiva- 
lent to "long life and (!very kind of happiness." The painting is admirable. 
Mark Ta-ch'ing-yiuig-cMng-nien-eltih, "Made during the period Yung Cheng 
of the Great Pure dynasty." Diameter, 8 J inches. 

87. Rice howl of thin white Yungcheng porcelain with everted brim. Two sprays of 

roses spreatl so as to decorate the entire outside with bloom and leaves, the 
end of the spray with leaves and bud passing over the brim to inside. This 
and Jie next three numbers are beautiful specimens. Mark, as in last. 
Height, 2i inches; diameter, 4f inches. 

88. Rice bmol of thin white Yungcheng porcelain. Two sprays of peach blossom, one 

bearing i)ink, the other white bloom, start from foot, spreading so as to deco- 
rate the entire outside and the ends of the sprays passing over the brim to 
the interior. Mark, as above. Height, 2^ inches; diameter, 4| inches. 

89. Wine cap of pure white Yungcheng porcelain, having a crooked branch of the 

dwarf plum bearing white bloom most delicately painted around the side. 
Mark, as above. Height, 2 J inches; diameter, 3f inches. 

90. Wine cup of fine white Yungcheng porcelain, with everted brim. Decoration: 

Four medallions of about 1 inch diameter, containing each a group of heav- 
enly bamboos with red berries {t'ien-chn, Nandina domestica), convolvulus, 
etc., very delicately painted in natural colors. Mark, as above. Height, 2J 
inches; diameter, 3| inches. 

91. 92. SmtcevK (a pair) of W'hite Yungcheng porcelain. Decoration: Inside, in center 

within a double circle, two imperial five-clawed dragons (see No. 4) with 
(tlouds and flaming sun engraved in paste, the clouds and one dragon being 
colored green, the other dragon aubergine purple on yellow ground; outside, 
round the rim, four flying feng hnang (see No. 4), between each two are 
cumuli clouds, all engraved in paste and colored green upon a yellow ground. 
On foot also yellow. Mark, as above, in aubergine purple. Diameter, 5| 
inches. 

93. Saucer oi pure white Yungcheng porcelain. Plain inside; on outside the bulg- 

mg run is decorated with red lotus flowers {Nelumhiinn speciosum), blue 
cornflowers and (•<)nventif)nal foliage on l)lack ground. Mark, as above, in 
blue. A small but admirable specimen of the black ground porcelain pro- 
duced by Fangying. (See Prefa(!e.) Diameter, 4^ inches. 

94, 95. Wine cups (a pair) of pure white. Yungcheng porcelain, decorated with 

four medallions of formal floral scroll pattern. Mark, as in last. Height, 
1| inches; diameter, 2§ inches. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 900.— Hippisley 



Plate 4. 




Vase of K'anghsi Porcelain 'No. 82). 

For explanation of plate see page 383. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 385 

96. Rice hoirJ (sniall) of jmrt' white Yuni,n-hrii^' porcelain with straight riiu, orua- 
luented with five similar medallions of sprays of peach hearing some white, 
some pink hloom, and two jieaches and two hats in each, symholieal of a 
long and happy life (see No. 27). Mark as above. This and next three 
numbers are beautiful specimens. Height, 2^ inches; diameter, 3f inches. 

i»7. 98. Rice fioLls (a pair, small) of pure white Yungcheng porcelain, decorated with 
three groups of fruit-bearing branches, one of peach, one of pomegranate, 
and one or lutig i/rti (the "dragon-eye" fruit, NepheVmni Joiujtim). Mark as 
above. Height, 2\ inches; diameter, ;i| inches. 

99. Rice hoirl (small), fellow to No. 89. 

100. J'late (?) of i>ure white Yungcheng porcelain covered with ornamentation no 

less remarkable for its wealth of detail than for the delicate harmony of its 
coloring. In the center is a circular elevation of about 1\ inches diameter, 
which has been cut off and hollowed out; on the depression thus made, 
which is, however, still somewhat higher than the body of the plate, is 
painted the character nhou (longevity) in blue on a yellow ground, which 
color forms the ground of the eiitire plate, but is scarcely visible so thickly 
is it covered with white, blue, and purple lotus flowers and formal foliage in 
subdued tints. Among these flowers and equidistant from each other are 
four shoK characters in blue forming tiny medallions, surrounded I)y a cor- 
olla (which give them the appearance oihyi-fang-Ilm or Indian lotus flowers) 
in light pink and lake. Four similar ornamentations enliven the rim. Of 
the underpart the rim is j)lain yellow, and the bottom of the plate a very 
delicate blue-green, except in center, where, in space corresponding to the 
elevation on the upper side already mentioned, the four characters Yung- 
cMng-nien-lehih "Made in Yungcheng period," in the ancient seal style, 
appear in blue on white ground. Diameter, 5| inches. 

101. 102. Dishes (a pair) of white Y^ungcheng porcelain, circular in shape. The dec- 

oration inside ct)nsists of a pair of yihui-ii<tng swimming amid pink lotus flow- 
ers and leaves in enamel colors, within a double ring; similar double ring at 
brim. On outside is similar decoration with border round tlie 1)rim of small 
imperial five-clawed dragons amid clouds with sun. Decoration shows it to 
have been intended for wedding service in palace. Mark as on No. 85. 
Diameter, 7 inches. 

The yilun-yang are the male and female, respectively, of Anas galericulata. 
commonly called by Europeans " Mandarin duck." These beauti- 
ful water fowl manifest when mated a singular degree of attachment 
for each other, and they have hence been elevated into the emblems 
of connubial affection and fidelity. 
108, 104. Bowls (a pair ) of white Y^ungcheng porcelain with everted brim. Decoration 
inside consists of, at bottom, a "sitting" imperial five-clawed dragon in ver- 
milion within a double ring, with similar ring at brim. On outside are two 
flying multi-colored /m^/ huang (see No. 4) separated on either side by an im- 
perial five-clawed dragon, one green, the other red, among flowers and deli- 
cate foliations in enamel colors; around the brim is a narrow border of the 
Eight Buddhistic Emblems (see No. 54) joined by conventional foliate orna- 
ments. :\Iark as on No. 85. Height, 2| inches; diameter, 6 inches. 
105. Plate (large, open) of pure white Y'ungcheng porcelain beautifully decorated 
with a bunch of large sprays of rose, pink peach, white peach, bamboos, and 
longevity fungus {ling-chih), which, after spreading around the outside, pass 
over the brim and cover the interior. Mark as on No. 85. A fine specimen, 
beautifully painted. Diameter, 19^ inches. 



386 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

10(5. Vase of I'lire wliite Yungch^ng porcelain of gourd shape, contracted in the mid- 
dle (Itii-lu), decorated witii a .spray of vine, leaves green, grapes purple and 
shades of light ))rown, tendrils blue; on the ground is a gray squirrel eating 
some of the grapes it haa plucked from the vine. Mark as on No. 85. Inter- 
esting to compare this with No. .37, a corresponding specimen of K'anghsi 
ware. Height, 41 inches. 

107. lOS. ]'/(itrn (a pair) of white Yungcheng porcelain. Decoration inside consists 
of spreading gourd vines with green leaves, white open Howers, pink buds, 
and fotu- gourds, contracted at middle, in shaded yellow, all in enamel col- 
ors; between the gourds and in center are five bats (the five kinds of happi- 
ness) , all within a double ring, with similar ring at brim. On outside similar 
decorations run round the bellying rim. Mark as on No. 85. Diameter, lOJ 
inches. 

109. Plidf of white Yungcheng porcelain. Decoration inside, five formal flowers of 

vermilion, with blue corolla and yellow centers, inclosed in a conventional 
ornamentation of green leaves and blue tendrils within a double ring, with 
similar ring at l)rim. On outside a similar decoration, containing eight of 
the same flowers, covers the rim. Mark as on No. 85. Diameter, 10| 
inches. 

110. ]'(tse of pure white Yungcheng porcelain, bellying gently outward for two- 

thirds of height, when it contracts suddenly to form slender neck. Decora- 
tion consists of a branch of white peach and young bamboos, which spread 
from foot upward and outward, beautifully painted. A fine specimen, but 
unfortunately cut at neck. Mark as on No. 85. Height, 7| inches. 

111. /'nirll-irashcr of white Yungcheng porcelain, bell-shaped. On it is depicted the 

mountainous shore of a lake with jutting j)romontories, on which are cot- 
tages, with men fishing, all in claret red under a faintly gray transparent 
glaze. Mark as on No. 85. Height, 2| inches. 

112. Ti'((-cup, with cover, of thin white Yungcheng jjorcelain, shaped like an inverted 

bell. On it is depicted a landscape of rolling hillocks separated by streams 
spanned by rustic bridges, delicately painted, with fine strokes, in brown, 
rocks shaded with reddish brown, grass land between hillocks of delicate 
l)ale green. Cover similarly decorated. Mark, a dragon in deep blue enamel 
above glaze. Height, 2^ to 2| inches; diameter, 4j inches. 

113. la-w of pure white Yungcheng porcelain, of globular shape. Covered with pale 

blue monochrome bearing four uncolored medallions within gilt bands, on 
each of which is painted a land.scape scene representing one of the four sea- 
sons, drawn by a master hand. The winter .scene is specially worthy of 
notice, the snow covering of the mountains, roads, and roofs being admi- 
rably brought out by throwing a slight haze over the background. Into a 
large circular hole in the top of the globe is inserted a flower holder of 
(tloisonne (dating from Chienlung's reign, that is, subsequent to 1735), with 
.seven openings for single flowers. No mark. Height, 8| inches. 

114. 115. Platen (a pair) of pure white Yungcheng porcelain. Decoration consists of 

sprays of chrysanthemums of various colors — on one they are white, pink, 
retl, and yellow; on the other blue, pink, cream, and vermilion — beautifully 
shaded, with leaves of several tones of green in enamel colors above glaze. 
Where the plate rises from the body to the rim it is fluted. Mark as No. 85. 
Diameter, 6| inches. 
11<>. f'eiiril-washer, of pure white Yungcheng porcelain, in shape resembling a low 
circular dish of which the brim curves inward. The decoration consists of 
two mang (see No. 9) , which, grasping longevity fungus and holding a branch 
of .same in the mouth, with forked tails terminating in elaborate scroll form. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Hippisley. 



Plate 5. 




I 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 387 

run around the center; confined above and below by a band of formal scroll 
pattern — delicately painted and shaded in a vitreous lake or carmine color 
(Chinese yen-chih, rouge) above glaze. No mark, but unmistaka)>ly made 
under the direction of T'ang ying (see page 347) . Height, If inches; -diam- 
eter, 5 inches. 

117. Plate of delicate white Yungcheng porcelain, with everted brim. Decorated 

inside with a group of three fresh lichees {Xephelium lichi), a peach, and a 
yellow lily most lieautifully painted in enamel colors of natural shade above 
glaze. The outside is entirely colored with a deep rose, which imj)art8 a 
blush to the white inside. This and the following number are admirable 
specimens of the celebrated "rose-l)ack j)lates." No mark. Diameter, 7f 
inches. (See Plate 5. ) 

118. J'late, exactly similar to last, but with different decoration. The group here 

consists of a deep-red Chinese peony {Poeonin moutan), a small i)each, and a 
branch of lung yen (the "dragon-eye" fruit Nephelimn JoiKjinn). Diameter, 
7f inches. (See Plate 5. ) 

119. Bonbomtih-e, of pure white Yungcheng porcelain, of flattened globular shape, 

box and cover of equal size. On latter a "sitting" imperial five-clawed 
dragon (see No. 4), in deep red, well painted and shaded, among deep-blue 
flossy clouds. Round the box are two similar dragons flying in pursuit of 
sun. Admirable specimen of the ware; the outlines are crisp and clear, and 
the colors bright, contrasting pleasantly with the pure white of the ground. 
Mark Fui-ss'u-t'ang-chih, " Made attheorder of the Fui-ss'u-t'ang Pavilion." 
Height, 4 inches; diameter, 6^ inches. 

As each artist gives some more or less romantic designation to his studio, 
so the Emperor and princes give some fanciful name to their pal- 
ace, or a portion of it, which is not unfrequently found upon jjorce- 
lain specially made for use in a special hall or pavilion, or for use 
by the owner of the "hall." In this csLse Fui-ss^ i(-tUnuj was the 
designation given to a portion of his palace by the Imperial Prince 
Ho, living during Yungcheng's reign, who enjoyed one of the eight 
titles of hereditary princedom by blood royal conferred upon as 
many of the most noted Manchu captains at the time of the con- 
quest of China. These hereditary princes are commonly termed 
"iron-helmet princes," and the distinction is one very seldom con- 
ferred since. During the present reign an exception has l)een made, 
as a reward for his distinguished services, in favor of Prince Kung, 
who for a quarter of a century was head of the Board of Foreign 
Affairs. 

120. 121. Tea-cups (a pair), with covers, of thin white Yungcheng porcelain, deco- 

rated with two imperial five-clawed dragons, pursuing sun amid clouds, all 
in deep red, the clouds, the dragons, and the scales of the latter being out- 
lined in bright gold; covers bear similar decoration. IVlark Ching-ss'a-t'ang, 
an imperial or princely hall mark, as yet unidentified. Height, S{ inches; 
diameter, 4j inches. 

122, 123. Plates (a pair) of white Yungcheng porcelain. Ornamentation consists of 
six characters in "seal" style among chrysanthemum flowers and leaves 
surrounding a seventh character inclosed within a wreath. On outside, 
round the brim, eight characters in "seal" style among chrysanthemums 
and flowers, all in deep blue under glaze. Mark as on No. 85. Diameter, 
10| inches. 

124. \'a.%' (small) of white Yungcheng porcelain. From a low, broad foot the outline 
slopes without curve to about two-thirds of height and then contracts at an 



388 REPORT OF NATIONAL MU8KUM, 1900. 

angli' of slijihtly uiKk-r 90 degrees to form narrow, straight, slender neck. 
The l)ody is covered with conventional traiUng flowers and leaves, confined 
above and below by a narrow l)and of geometrical pattern. At junction of 
neck with body is a smaller band of leaves and flowers, and above another 
row of flowers between two narrow bands of foliate scroll-work, another 
l)and of which runs round the foot, all in deep blue under glaze. Height, 
7i inches. (See Plate 7.) 

l'2'\ la.sc (small) of white jxtrcelain, of delicate shape, somewhat resembling a pear, 
decorated with a gntuj) of peonies springing from a mass of rockery, boldly 
painted in deei> l)lne under a glaze, which has a yellowish tint, owing to the 
closeness of the (rrackle (<rH(7fc'). A good specimen. No mark. Height, 6| 
inches. (See Plate 6.) 

12t>. Wine-pot of white Yungcheng porcelain, cubic in shape, with tall, slender, rec- 
tangular handle; decorated with chrysanthemums and ornate foliage, with 
a deep band of formal scroll-work at base, and foliate scrolls round the neck. 
A small flower i)attern runs along the outside of the spout and of handle, all 
in good blue under glaze. Along the sides of tho handle runs a Grecian pat- 
tern, and along those of the spout a floral scroll, moulded in relief under 
glaze. No mark. Height of l)ody, 6i inches to top of handle. 

127. Wirie-cnp of fine, transparent, white Yungcheng porcelain, bearing five medal- 
lions, each formed by afi'tig-lnnnif/ (see No. 4), with long curved wings, care- 
fully painted in deep blue under glaze. Mark as on No. 85. Height, 2^ 
inches; diameter, 85 inches. 

12.S. T'rt.se of pure white Yungcheng porcelain, circular in shape, bellying outward 
to two-thirds of height, then contracting slightly to form low, open neck at 
I>oint of contraction. Two handles, one on either side, formed of grotesque 
elephants' heads holding a ring in trunk in relief under glaze. Decoration 
consists of a child leading one water buffalo, with two others following more 
or less willingly, among spreading weejnng willows, beautifully painted in 
deep, bright blue under glaze. An admirable specimen. No mark. Height, 
H\ inches; diameter, 7 inches. (See Plate 7.) 

129. Vase of pure white Yungcheng porcelain. In shape a half globe with tall, 
slender, everted neck rising from the center. Decoration consists of one of 
the Taoist genii (? Lao Tze) in long, flowing yellow robe, with white hair and 
long, crooked stick, accompanied by an attendant standing under a spreading 
pine close beside dark -green-blue rocks. The i)ine trunk is delicately shaded 
in brown, the leaves of deep green, and the figures painted with the delicacy 
of miniatures. Attached is a metrical inscription to the following effect: 

Above a sheer abyss erag o'erhangs crag, 

Whose heads aloft In piirpK' distance soar, 
Whose look to mind recalls the five Star-gods 

Who help'd great Shun to rule in days of yore; 
And shady glens betwixt form cool retreats 

Where sages meet to con tlieir mystic lore. 

It is recorded that the "Five Old Men," the spirits of the Five Planets, 
ai)peared at court B. C. 2246, and assisted the Emperor Shun with 
their counsels till he abdicated in favor of Yii, when they disap- 
peared. Shun then dedicated a temple to the five planets and offered 
sacrifices in their honor, whereitpon "five long stars" appeared in 
the heavens with other auspicious signs. 
This and the following number are beautiful specimens. The paintings 
upon them are from the brush of Wang Shih-mei, styled Yen-k'e, a 
celebrated artist of the present dynasty. 
Height, 7 int^hes; diameter, 4J inches. (See Pate 6.) 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Hippisiey. 



Plate 6. 




Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 900.— Hippisley. 



Plate 7. 




CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 389 

130. I'".sr of pure white Yungcheng porcelain, a pendant to the ai)Ove, an<l l)earing 
a decoration only differing in details. The inscription here reads: 

The sage is gone on pleasure bent, 

Answer'd the boy 'neath pinewoods' shade; 
Where? I know not — but in the.se hills 

Where clouds hang thick o'er some deep glnde. 

Height, 7 inches; diameter, 41 inches. (See Plate 6. ) 

LSI. W'itir-cup (small) of pure white Yungcheng porcelain, decorated witli three 
groups, each containing three sprays of bamboo delicately painted in green 
enamel color above rich glaze. Mark as on Xo. 85. Height, If inches; 
diameter, 3| inches. 

182. Wiiu'-cap (small) of pure white Yungcheng porcelain, decorated with sprays oi 
pine, bamboo, and plum-blossom, symbolical of a long life (see Nf). 181) 
delicately painted in deep blue under a brilliant transparent glaze. Mark 
as on No. 85. Height, 2 inches; diameter, 3| inches. 

\"'.'>. \'((Kc of pure white Yungcheng porcelain, shaped like a g<jurd I'ontracted in 
the middle. Entirely covered with clouds, through which appears an 
imperial five-clawed dragon, all in deep transparent blue, contrasting well 
with the pure white ground. No mark. Height, 9 inches. (See Plate 7.) 

134. J'rrirll-holder, circular in shape and very broad, of white Ch'enghua porcelain 

(1465 to 1487). Decoration, in beautiful shade of blue under transparent 
glaze, a long poem from the pen of the celebrated poet Li T'ai-po, of the 
Sung dynasty (A. D. 699 to 762), inculcating the P^picurean philosophy, 
which may be summed up in Horace's words, Carpe diem, qiiam iiiiuuuum 
credula postero. The advice contained in the poem is being put into practice 
by a merry party round the festive board, whose actions express the words 
of the Latin author: Fruamur bonis qitce sunt; pretiuso vino et unguenfis nos 
impleamus, non prRiereat vos fos temporis. No mark. Height, 6 inches; 
diameter, 6| inches. 

135. Ricc-honi of pure white Yungcheng porcelain ornamented with trailing gourd 

and leaves moulded in relief under a thick celadon glaze. Mark as on No. 
85. Height, 25 inches; diameter, 4| inches. 

1.3(). r<7.sv' of pure white Yungcheng i)orcelain with no ornamentation. Hexagonal 
in shape, bellying outward for one-third of height, then rapidly contracting 
to form long tapering neck, on which, on either side, is an oj>en ear-shaped 
handle covered with a uniform celadon glaze. ]\Iark as on No. 85. Height, 
lOg inches. 

137. V(tsc (small) of white Yungcheng porcelain, circular in shape, with narrow 
neck and ornamented with groups of lotus flowers moulded on the paste in 
relief and covered with thick, pale celadon glaze. No mark. Height, 5| 
inches. 

138-145. Ritr-hoir/s (S) of thin, transparent white Yungcheng porcelain. Decoration 
on outside, formal Chinese pinks, with trailing leaves moulded in relief, the 
bowl springing from a lotus li(jwer moulded in relief above foot; inside, at 
foot, a lotus flower engraved in the pa.ste. Covered inside and out with a 
thick, transparent, celadon glaze. Mark as on No. 85. Height, IjJ inches; 
diameter, 4^ inches. 

14(>. \'(isc of white Yungcheng porcelain, gradually bulging from base till suddenly 
caught in to form short, narrow, everted neck, and covered with mono- 
chrome glaze of dull carmine. Mark as on No. 85. Height, 8f int;hes. 

147. Incense-hunter of white Yiuigcheng porcelain, in shape of low, broad pan, with 
a small ring handle on either side, covered inside and out with a dappled- 
l)lHck and dark-green glaze — xouifir — to imitateold discolored bronze. Higlily 
valued by Chinese collectors. Height, 2f inches; diameter, 5| inches. 



300 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

14.S. 14;t. IHdtix (a pair) of very thin, pure white Yiingchgng porcelain; small and 
covered with a delicate imperial yellow brilliant glaze. On foot, which is 
alone left white, mark as on No. 85, in blue. Diameter, .3| inches. 

150. Viixr (small) of white Yungcheng porcelain, of bulbous shape, with long nar- 
row neck, covered with monochrome deej) lake or carmine thick vitreous 
glaze, covered with pittings, in the terminology of French writers, ayant 
Vappareiive rUagrinee iVittte i>eau (i^ orange. Height, 7f inches. 

151, 152. Rice-boirh of white Yungcheng porcelain, everted. Plain inside. On out- 
side are imperial five-clawed dragons flying amidst formal foliated scrolls, 
engraved in paste, the entire outside being covered with a monochrome 
brilliant glaze of deep green. Mark as on No. 85. Height, 2| inches; diam- 
eter, 5| inches. 

158, 154. Fish-hoirls (a pair) of Yungcheng earthenware covered with a curious glaze, 
termed by tlie Chinese fifh-liMii, "iron rust," and having the appearance of 
holding minute iron filings in suspension. Mark as on No. 85, engraved on 
the foot. Height, 2^ inches; diameter, 8 inches. 

155. Vdiff of pure white Yungcheng porcelain, of slender shape, curving gently 

outward to two-thirds of height, when it contracts to form slender neck, 
terminating in a fiat open mouth. Covered externally with a bright, trans- 
l)arent crimson glaze, which has thickened at base of neck and assumed a 
darker shade. Colored glaze has been very carefully applied, so that inte- 
rior and brim of mouth remain pure white. No mark. A specimen of 
Nkn-jiao — that is, of the porcelain made under the direction of Nien Hsi-yao. 
(See page 342. ) Height, 9 inches. 

156, 157. Srro'nK (a pair) of pure white Yungcheng porcelain, oblong in shape, and 

decorated with landscapes in sepia: (1) A village under shelter of rocks on 
lofty bank of a river, on opposite bank a valley and water-fall overshadowed 
by trees; (2) a handsome pavilion on rocky eminence and approached by 
long, winding river-side road, overlooks the river, on which boats are seen 
sailing. Fair specimens of the "ideal landscapes" of Chinese artists. No 
mark. Height, 14 inches; length, 14} inches. 

158. Ilice-hdirl of white Yungcheng porcelain, decorated with lilies, irises, and Chinese 

pinks of various hues painted in enamel colors of natural tones al)ove glaze 
upon a deep violet ground. Mark Yiing-clunig iiioi-cldh, "Made during the 
Yungcheng i)eriod." Height, 2f inches; diameter, 5| inches. 

159, biO. Rirp-boirlx, small (a pair), of pure white Yungcheng porcelein. On a purple- 

violet ground are sprays of a small blue flower with conventional foliage, 
which form four panels colored lemon yellow, on which are purple peonies, 
with green leaves painted in enamel colors of natural tones above glaze, 
^lark as on last. Height, 3| inches; diameter, 4| inches. 

161. Simff-hdille of pure white Yimgcheng porcelain, of flat circular shape, decorated 

on either side with a group of cream-yellow chrysanthemums and vermilion- 
colored coleuti, painted with great delicacy. Mar\i Ln-Kn-faug, "the Hall 
of Delight in Antiquity," a princely designation as yet unidentified. 

162. Hiinghnj-vnife of skimmed-milk-color white Yungcheng porcelain, of amphora 

shape, but without arms. A mnng (see No. 9) boldly molded in relief, with 
head aloft and light coral red in color, curls round the neck. The vase is 
covered with a thick, brilliant, transparent glaze, except at base, where runs a 
deep band, and at brim, where runs a narrower band, of geometrical scroll- 
work in dull white above glaze. No mark. Height, 4f inches; diameter, 
2| inches. 
16.3. Vase of pure white Yungcheng porcelain. In shape a half-globe with tall, 
slender, everted neck rising from cienter. .\ mang (see No. 9) in high relief, 
beautifully molded, with tail having scroll-like terminations, curls down- 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Hippisley. 



Plate 8. 




Pilgrim Bottle of White Chienlung Porcelain >Mo. 176i 

For explanation of plate see page 391. 



rERAMK" ART \N CHINA. 891 

ward roiiiidthe neck, grasping a large l)raiK-li of longevity fungus; the iinnig 
and fungn.s are of deep vermilion; the leaves of latter are green, covered 
with thick, brilliant transparent glaze. No mark. A lovely specimen of 
T'angying's ware. (See page 347.) Height, 7 inches; diameter, 4J inches. 

1H4-Iti7. Rice-bowk (4) of white Yungcheng porcelain covered with closely-crackled 
(truit^) glaze, having a purple tint rubbed into the crackling. Decoration, 
inside, at bottom, a peach with six leaves, forming a medallion; outside, four 
of the Buddhistic emblems (see No. 54), each supported on either side by a 
spray of fiowers, to which it is attached by long flowing ribbons. Mark as 
on No. 85, in black on crackled foot. Height, 2 inches; diameter, 5i inches. 

IHS. Pencil-washer of earthenware in shape of a longevity peach sliced in half. It 
is covered inside with thick white-blue glaze studded Avith deep pittings, as 
of burst bubbles, a rose and l)ud at bottom; outside is colored with the 
natural shades of an unripe peach. The handle is formed of the woody stock, 
which throws out smaller shoots running over the sides of fruit, upon which 
are full-blown flowers, unopened buds, leaves, and green fruit moulded in 
high relief and painted in natural colors. A curious specimen of a ware much 
esteemed ])y the Chinese. No mark. Height, H inches. 

169. Cup of pure white Yungcheng porcelain of i-ircular shape, everted. Decoration 

consists of, itiKtde, waves at Ijottom, at sides bats, and at Ijrim a border of 
(Trecian pattern, all engraved in paste under transparent glaze; outside, 
between bands of a very delicate diaper pattern of red at brim, and of green 
w'ith light-red center at foot, is depicted a high officer (possibly the Emperor 
himself) with two attendants descending the steps of a pavilion built under 
the shade of wide-spreading trees, and bearing in his arms the /«-/, or emblem 
of iiower, to meet a military officer, who, having just dismounted from his 
horse, around which stand subordinate officers and attendants, is advancing 
to meet the former. The inscription Ch'u-chioiig-jii-Iuiang-rhiIi-]>ei, "Cup of 
him who departed as General and returned as Grand Secretary," shows the 
cui> to have been ordered by the Emjieror to confer upon some high officer 
who had Vjeen commander-in-chief in some war, and who had V)een invested 
with the high distinction of grand secretary upon his return crowned with 
victory. It should be added that in China military officers always occupy a 
relatively lower rank than do civil officers, and that the dignity of grand 
secretary, of which there are four, is the highest to which any subject, not 
of princely rank, can attain. Who the officer so honored in this instance 
was has not been as yet determined. Apart from the intrinsic interest attach- 
ing to such a specimen, the cup is remarkable for the miniature-like delicacy 
and wealth of detail which characterize the painting. 'Slark Ifsij-hita-t'ciuj- 
chih-tmig, "Made for Hsii-hua Pavilion (the designation of part of the impe- 
rial palace — that is, for the Emperor) to confer upon" some high officer. 
Height, 2 inches; diameter, A\ inches. 

170. Vnse of white Yungcheng porcelain. Circular in shape, circumference rising 

straight to one-half the height of vase, when it suddenly contracts to form 
long, narrow neck. Decoration consists of formal fiowers, peaches, and foli- 
age in natural colors on light-blue ground, except where three gold circles 
form as many medallions on the white ground, on which are painted groups 
of chrysanthennnns and red coleus in natural colors. No mark. Height, 
8 inches; diameter, 4^ inches. 

171. Pencil-waMher of white Ming porcelain: For details see above, page o71. 
172-175. Plates (small) of white Ming porcelain: For details see above, page 372. 
176. Pilgrim-bottle of pure white Chienlung (1736 to 1796) porcelain of wheel shape 

on an ovate foot, with low circular neck attached by foliated handles. 
Decoration on front and back consists of a central boss bearing a formal 



392 KKF'OKT OK NATIONAL MTTSETTM, 1900. 

f(tliatc ])attfrii, and .^iirnmiuled by a band of Grecian pattern; round the 
])(i!Js as i-enter are eight lainbretinin j)anels, e^ch containing one of the eiglit 
Buddhistic enibleni.s (wee No. 54), the panels l)eing confined by another band of 
Grecian i)attern. This ornamentation and a band of Grecian pattern round 
the brim of neck are moulded in relief on the i)aste, and, together with the plain 
edge of the foot, are covered with a rich celadon glaze. The neck, arms, 
remain(ier of foot, and fiat surface of disk of wheel (or vase) are ornamented 
with lotus flowers and leaves in bright, deep blue under glaze. Beneath 
foot, mark Ta-ch'hui-dilen-lung-nkn-chih, " Made in the Chienlung i)eriod of 
the Great Pure Dynasty." A very beautiful specimen. Height, 18| inches; 
diameter of disk, 9| and 141 inches. (8ee Plate 8.) 

177. Vdfie, small, of ehmgated drum shape, of jmre white Chienlung jwrcelain, with 

ornamentation in deep blue Ijeneath transparent glaze, consisting of formal 
interlacing scroll-work forming lotus-shaped panels containing the fungus of 
longevity [litig-rhih), surmounted l)y xradiku; around the rim another band 
of delicate foliated scroll-work. Mark as in last. Height, 3| inches. 

The svastika is a mystic diagram of great antiquity. It is mentioned in 
the Ramayana and found in the well temples of India, as well as 
among all the Buddhistic people of Asia, and, as the emblem of 
Thor, among Teutonic races. In China it is the symbol of the 
Buddha's heart, /. e., of the esoteric doctrines of Buddhism, and is 
the special mark of all deities worshipped by the Lotus school. 

178. ^'^l.^l' of pure white Chienlung jiorcelain, of flattened bulbous shape, with long 

tai)ering neck, covered with bats and clouds in blue, delicately shaded under 
glaze, confined above by narrow band and below by a double l)roader band, 
partly round the foot and partly on body where it begins to bulge, of con- 
ventional scroll-work. A handle on either side of neck, formed by a mang 
(see No. 9), finely molded in relief, clambering upward from body of vase. 
Mark as in last. Height, 7| inches. 
179-180. Trt-sv-.s (2) of pure white Chienlung porcelain. The shape resembles that of 
a pear, swelling gently as it rises until it suddenly contracts to terminate in 
a short, narrow, everted neck. At neck a light formal pattern, l)elow which 
is a collar of scroll-work in j)anel form. Upon the l)ody are sprays of peony 
{Piroiiia luoiilan), plum blossom, and chrysanthemum above, and below 
branches, each bearing fine fruits, of pomegranate, peaches, and lichees; 
confined at foot by a deep band of upright leaves — all in deep lilue, shaded, 
imder a thin transparent glaze. Mark as in last. Height, I25 inches. 
181-1S2. Ria-hoirls (2) of white Chienlung porcelain, ornamented with designs well 
painted in deep blue under a transi>arent glaze; iiixide, at bottom, a medal- 
lion of conventional ornate scroll-work; outride, three clusters, one of bamboo, 
(me of pluni-l)lossom, and one of pine. Mark as in last. Height, 2| inches; 
diameter, 5{ inches. 

P'englai-shan (Mount Horai of the Japanese) was one of the three Isles 
of the (ienii, sui)po8ed to lie off the eastern coast of China, in which 
flowed the fountain of life in a perpetual stream, giving sempiternal 
vigor to the happy denizens of this paradi.se who drank its waters. 
The pine, the bamboo, the plum, the peach, and the fungus of 
longevity grew forever on its shores; the long-haired tortoise dis- 
l)orted in its rocky inlets, and the white crane built her nest in the 
lind)s of its everlasting pines. All these have thus come to be 
emblematical of long life. The first three, however, are almost 
always found in c(jmbination under the title of sung-chu-me'i (pine, 
bamboo, and plum); the remainder either separately and alone or 
as adjuncts to the appropriate genii. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 900,— Hippisley. 



Plate 9. 




CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 8^)8 

183, 1.S4. I'r^.si.s- (li) (if white Cliieuluug porcelain of putivhr shape, hut with everted 
lU'ck, requiring no cover; bearing ornamentation of Itats, emblematical of 
happiness, and lotus flowers witli formal foliage interlacing of various shades 
of blue under transparent glaze; at neck a ])and of formal design and at foot 
a deeper band of same. On either side a sort of handle molded in relief, 
of a tiger's head holding a ring in the mouth. Mark same as last. Height, 
8} inches. 

185. \'(isr, small and slender, of j)ure white Chienlung porcelain, of doulile thickness 
at neck, tlie outer layer of jiaste terminating below in an everted scallop- 
edged ruffle, curving outward and downward. Ornamentation consists of 
roses and chrysanthenmms painted in deep blue under thick, transparent 
glaze, leaving three medallions of pure milk white, in which, as open-work, 
chrysanthemums and bamboos, roses, and jjlum blossoms are respectively 
molded with great delicacy in relief under thick white glaze. Round the pro- 
jecting edge at neck runs a foliated scroll engraved in relief under a white 
glaze. A very beautiful specimen. Being intended to hold flowers, the 
oi.ien-work of the medallions has required the presence of an interior vase, 
separate in the body but uniting at the neck, to hold water. No mark. 
Heiglit, 5 inches. .(See Plate 13.) 

18(3,,187. Rice-houis (2) of white Chienlung porcelain. Ornamentation: inaidc, two 
circles inclosing a "sitting" imperial five-clawed dragon (see No. 4) amid 
clouds; outside, two flying dragons of the same character amid clouds; all in 
very deep, beautiful blue under a transparent glaze. Mark Ta-ch' liKj-cliien- 
lung-nien-chih, in seal character in blue. Height, 2f inches; diameter, 5| 
inches. 

188. I'ili/rim-holtlc of white Chienlung porcelain of same sliajje as No. 17H, l>ut of 
smaller size, and bearing precisely same decoration, which is, however, in 
deep blue, shaded, under a transparent glaze. Mark same as in last. Height, 
13j inches; diameter, 5| and 10 inches. 

189, 190. Vases (a pair) of white Chienlung porcelain bellying outward above foot, 
then gradually contracting to form slender neck, terminating in a small 
globe. The ornamentation of the body consists of sprays of chrysanthemxims, 
peach, plum blossom, pomegranate, peonies, and lichees, confined below by 
a band of formal panel scroll-work, surmounting a band of cl(juds, and 
al)ove by two bands of Grecian pattern inclosing between them one of 
formal panel scroll-work, surmounted by a second band of foliate scroll, the 
decoration being in deep blue under a transparent glaze. Mark same as on 
No. 187. Height, 11 inches. 

191, 192. Plates (a pair) of white Chienlung porcelain. Unique specimens, displaying 
great artistic skill as well as wealth and beauty of ornament. At rim is a 
band having a foliate pattern incised in the paste, of conventional flowers and 
foliage in enamel colors on a magenta ground. Separated from this by a 
narrow bar of gold is a second band of open-work circular chain pattern of 
alternatelj' blue and gold links on a ground of pale green, bearing a deli- 
cate ornamentation in black. Another thin bar of gold divides this band 
from the body of the plate, which is of lemon yellow, having a foliated pat- 
tern engraved in the paste. On tlie lemon-colored ground are seen the live 
poisonous reptiles, the flying centipede, the snake, the scorpion, the lizard, 
and the toad, with peony flowers and antidotes against the venom of these 
reptiles, namely, patch-work bags containing sprays of the yii plant (? dog- 
wood) and the p'u or typha rush, all in enamel colors of natural tint. On 
outside; on either side of perforated chain, which is painted as on inside, is a 
band of leaf pattern in sliades of green on a deep orange ground picked out 
with a foliate pattern in gold. On foot is a simple ring studded witli gems 

NAT MU.S 1000 28 



3'.>4 RKPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

of jrreen enamel in high relief on deep orange ground. Mark in vermilion 
same a!< on Nos. 180, 187. Diameter, 80 inchen. (See Plate 9. ) 

At the Tnan i/mig festival, on the oth day of the 5th moon of each year, 
spedal offering.>J are made to these insects, and rough paintings of 
similar design to these plates are then hung over the door of each 
house. 
P.k;. \'ii.^r of white Chieidung porcelain, slender in shape, slojiing gently outward to 
alxtut two-thirds of height, then gently contracting to form neck, wliii-h 
curves outward at brim. Upon a ground of delicate pale green throughout 
is painted the decoration, which consists of conventional flowers and foliage 
of varied colors outlined in gold. This main decoration is confined at foot 
hy a deep border of formal foliated scroll pattern in l)rick re<l on a yellow 
ground, and at base of neck by a narrow border of same, from which 
springs a crown of V)anana leaves of light green, veined with gold and out- 
lined with blue; above this is a band of conventional flowers and f(jliage 
confined by a foliate scroll outlined with blue and gold on a yellow ground. 
Mark in gokl same as on Nos. 186, 187. Height, 13| inches. 

194. Vast' of white Chienlung porcelain. Circular in shape, curving gently outward 

till at four-fifths of its height it contracts to form a short neck curving out- 
ward at brim. On a ground of pea green covered with a foliated pattern 
engraved in the i)aste branches of yulan (magnolia coitxplcuu), red peach 
blossom, peonies with full-blown flowers of red and of yellow, with vermilion 
buds, spring from a cluster of rocks on which stands the sacred feufjliuang 
(see No. 4), all beautifully painted and shaded in natural colors under 
l>rilliant glaze, the greens being enamels. Inside of vessel, gold. Mark as 
in Nos. 186, 187. Height, 19^- inches. (See Plate 10. ) 

195. Vnxi', tall, circular in shape. On a pea-green ground covered with a small 

foliate pattern incised in the paste is an old man, holding a long crooked 
stick and dressed in a long vermilion cloak, with a tall conical cap upon his 
liead, to whom a boy dressed in pink is presenting on bended knee a Ijat, 
while four other l)ats hover in the air, well painted under a brilliant glaze. 
No mark. Height, 14f inches. (See Plate 10.) 

A common motive with Chinese artists is the presentation to Lao Tze 
(see No. 54), the great philosopher and founder of the Taoist sect, 
of an immortality pea(;h by Tung Wang Kung, the consort of the 
legendary Queen of the Fairies, Hsi Wang Mu, or by one of his 
attendants, on the Sage's arrival at her mountain palace in the 
K'unlun range (see No. 28). The same subject is here depicted, a 
bat replacing the jjeach. Since the pronunciation of the character 
for "bat" is the .same as of that for " happiness," the five bats sym- 
bolize the "five blessings or happinesses." Lao Tze is receiving 
the first, "longevity;" the remaining four — riches, peacefulness and 
serenity, love of virtue, and an end crowning the life — hover over 
his head. 
YMy-20\. Wine cups (6) of white Chienlung porcelain, colored, inside, pale green; oh(- 
side, deep blue [bleu de roi), on which spread sprays of peony, yulan [mag- 
uoUu conspima), and grasses delicately painted in gold, and confined at brim 
and where cup springs from the foot by a band of Grecian pattern, also in 
gold. Good si)ecimens, well preserved. Mark as on Nos. 186, 187. Height, 
If; diameter, 2| inches. 
202, 203. Vases (a pair) of pure white Chienlung porcelain, of shape termed by Chinese 
h'li-t'ang, ( ('iidouia japnnica and Pi/rns spectabilis ur harcif era), '■slender, gently 
Ijulging to two-thirds height, then contracting slightly to neck, everted at 
mouth, entirely covere<l with deei)-blue glaze {hlen deroi); divided by flut- 
ings into four sections throughout, each section or scallop decorated with 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Hippisley. 



Plate 10. 




<y> 






CD 




CO 


rn 


UJ 


o 




z 





en o 

O 2 

a 2 



o 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Hippis!ey. 



Plate 11. 




Vase of Chienlung Porcelain 'No. 202 i. 

For explanation of plate see page 394. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 895 

ornamental scroll work and peach sprays with conventional nu-daUionslonuod 
of longevity fungus, from which spring lotus flowers, over each of which hov- 
ers a l)at with extended wings (symbol of happiness). Around foot is a deep 
border formed l>y a band of Howers supporting a second band of conventional 
foliate scroll work. Round the neck is a border, j>artly of geometrical i)at- 
tern, partly of foliate scroll work; above, in middle panel, a medallion of 
peach branches witli leaves and fruit flanked on sections of side i)anel, which 
are formed by a gilt handle similar to conventional scroll work on l)ody, by 
narrow spray of similar i>each. Round the rim is a narrow ))and of l)ats with 
outstretched wings. The ornamentation, which typifies "long life and hap- 
piness," is throughout of bright gold. Inside a i>ale green. On foot of same, 
color mark as on No. 186. Unique and very lieautiful specimens. Height, 
18 inches; diameter, 6f and 8 inches. (See Plate 11. ) 

204, 20a. lV^s(•.'^' (a pair) of pure white Chienlung porcelain, circular in shape, ))ulg- 
ing suddenly above foot to one-half height, then contracting to form long 
neck, everted at brim. Decoration consists of an imperial five-clawed dragon 
pursuing sun and five bats auKing clouds over breaking waves at foot; beauti- 
fully molded in relief under white glaze. Round the foot a l)and of Grecian 
pattern incised in paste under glaze. Mark as on No. 186. Height, 12 inches; 
diameter, 8 inches. (See Plate 17. ) 

206. Vuse of white porcelain, globular in shape, with straight, somewhat broad neck. 
Decoration: From a mass of rocks, colored blue, green, and white, and on 
which grow red and white peonies, springs a spreading tree, with green trunk 
and leaves, some white, some green. Amf)ng the branches stands a stork 
on one leg, another stork is shown flying from among clouds a])ove, while 
four more stand below m various jxjsitions on and around the rocks, the 
storks being white, with black legs, tails, and ]:)eaks and red crests. The 
ground color of the vase is brown aubergine, covered throughout with a 
brilliant transparent glaze. The date is uncertain, but the style of decora- 
tion indicates that it may belong to a period considerably anterior to Chien- 
lung's reign; it certainly is not of a later date. Height, 15} inches. 

Represents the home of the stork of immortality on P'eng-lai-shan (see 
No. 181). (See Plate 12.) 

207-210. Tea cups (4) of thin white Chienlung porcelain, with wide mouths. Deco- 
rated with slight sprays of conventional lotus flowers and leaves, forming 
four panels, in each of which is a small similar flower with a butterfly on 
outstretched wings above in deep tones and one in light tones below. Very 
l)eautifully painted. Mark as on No. ISH. Height, 2f inches; diameter, 4} 
inches. 

211, 212. Cups (a pair), small, of pure white Chienlung porcelain, with wide mouths. 
Inside plain. On outside, on thick violet ground, are sprays of iris; Chinese 
pinks of various colors, red peonies, and yellow peonies spring from the foot 
of cup. Mark as on No. 186. Height, 1| inches; diameter, 8| inches. 

213. Hangiiiri rn.w, flat, of pure white Chienlung porcelain. On an imitation wooden 
stand, colored vermilion, with a scroll jiattern (representing the carving usual 
on such stands) in gold, stands a vase of the shape of a gourd contracted at 
the middle [hulu), conventionalized l)y giving a scalloped outline to the two 
globular portions, into which the gourd is shaped by the central contracting 
band. On the lower and larger portion is a panel outlined in gold, and of 
lower level than the surrounding body. On the panel is a landscape paint- 
ing of mounted Tartars, in official dress, hunting; the body is decorated with 
delicate foliations in gold, studded with conventional star-shaped flowers of 
various but subdued colors. A narrow band of jjanel scrolls in l)rick red, 
edged with white on a green ground, and a second band of delicate blue and 
pink flowers on a pale-yellow ground, contract the gourd at the center. 



3y<) REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Aliove, on tlie smaller swelling, the ground of whieh corresponds with that 
of the larger swelling below, is a second gold-edged panel containing a four- 
lin»' stanza signed by the Emperor Chienlung, himself an ardent sportsman, 
extolling the i)lea.sures of the chase. The outward sloping neck is decorated 
with a band of si^allojied upright banana leaves on the same ground as covers 
the lower portion of the vase. Mark as on No. 186. The landscape and 
figures admirably painted; style of decoration shows great artistic skill. 
Height, 8i inches. 

IM I. Willi' pot and cover of pure white Chienlung porcelain. Of slender, graceful 
form, entirely covered with plain gold. No mark. Height, 8| inches. 

21o, 21(i. Bowls (a pair) of white Chienlung porcelain. Everted brims. Covered 
inside with a straw-colored glaze. Outside the ground is of brick-red, show- 
ing in the natural Avhite of the porcelaiia a decoration of conventional lotus 
tlowers, chrysanthemums, and foliage, shaded with the color of the ground, 
vermilion. Mark as on No. 18(5. Height, 2| inches; diameter, 5J inches. 

217. Pniril-holder (small) of enamel, on copper, cylindrical, with four gilt dragon 

handles. Divided into two sections by three narrow horizontal Ijands, one 
at top, one at foot, and the third midway between, of minute convolvulus, 
peony, iris, and (-hrysanthemum blooms on white ground. The two sections 
thus formed have a ground of diaper-pattern in deep olive green; on the 
upper section in each space between the bands is a panel containing a min- 
iature landscape in crimson; on the lower are two long panels of landscapes 
W'ith men fishing with rod and line, separated by two smaller panels each 
containing a European lady holiling a flower, delicately painted. Specimen 
of the work of T'angying (see page 347). Mark as on No. 186. Height, 2h 
inches; diameter, 1| inches. 

218. Vase of white Chienlung porcelain. Shaped as a slender gourd. Contracted at 

middle by a band of narrow pointed leaves above, and another below, a cen- 
tral ribbon, moulded in relief; from upper and smaller swelling spring two 
ear-shaped handles, covered entirely with dull monochrome glaze of deep 
olive or " tea-dust " {ch'a-ino) color. Mark as on No. 186 impressed in foot. 
Height, 10 inches. 

219. i'7o7/v'r-//oWr'r of white Chienlung porcelain. In shape a much-flattened globe, 

from which springs a wide everted neck closed at top, with three perforations 
to hold single flowers, covered with brilliant deep blue {bleu de roi) glaze. 
Mark as on last. Height, 3i inches. 

220. Vuite (small) of pure white Chienlung porcelain. From a small stand, vermilion 

color, bearing a geometrical scroll pattern in gold — to imitate a stand of 
carved wood — springs the vase, gently bulging to two-thirds height, when it 
contracts to form everted neck. The body is of dull light blue, on which are 
conventional flowers in various shades of pink and yellow with scroll foliage 
in shades of green, veined with darker tints of same, confined at foot by a 
l)anel band of delicate pink edged with dull green, and, at contraction below 
neck, by a band of foliated scrolls of pink outlined with deep green, the pink 
becoming lighter till it merges in a narrow band of vermilion studded with 
small open circlets of gold. The decoration at base of neck consists of a 
bulging band of yellow, bearing conventional flowers of various shades of 
l>ink and yellow, and green scroll-like foliage. Above on the trumpet- 
shaped neck is the same dull, light-blue ground as on body, bearing pink 
and white flowers with delicate green leaves, confined l)elow by a band of 
upright banana leaves of palest green outlined with white and veined with 
black, and above l)y a band around the brim of vermilion, bearing scroll- 
work in gold. Inside pale sea green. On foot of same, mark as on No. 186. 
.\ choice specimen. Height 5i inches. (See Plate 18. ) 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Hippisley. 



Plate 12. 




Vase of White Porcelain iNo. 206). 

For explanation of plate see page 395. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 397 

221. Pencil-holder of pure white porcelain, of broad circular shape. Consists of beau- 

tifully molded openwork representing a bamboo grove strewn with rocks 
partially covered with stone crop, on one of which is a "painted " thrush 
al)ont one-half natural size. The bandioo stalks are of pale green enamel, 
the tibers at joints shaded in brown, leaves of emerald merging into i)eacock 
green; rucks light green, delicately shaded into blue at hollows and under 
parts; thrush very delicately painted in brown, shaded with darker tint of 
same, every feather being defined. An exceptionally line specimen. Mark 
fi'i-chv-xlian-faug-clu'ii-tx^ani/: "The precious treasure of the house of green 
bamboo hill." Height. H inches; diameter, 5| inches. (See Plate 9.) 

222. Penrll-hulder of white Chienlung porcelain. Tall, cylindrical in shape. Formed 

of sections of slight bamboos kept in place by a ribbon at top and another at 
base, passing through the center of the bamboos and tied in bows. Painted 
in gray, well shaded in black under rich glaze. No mark. Height, 4| 
inches; diameter, 2| inches. 

223. Hanyhig-vase of pure white (^hienlung porcelain. From well-molded stand of 

(hdl vermilion, with rectangular supports re])resenting a carved wood stand, 
springs the elliptical shaped vase with short, bulging neck. The body of the 
vase consists of a deep magenta ground, on which are conventional flowers 
of alternate blue, violet, and yellow, shaded with deeper tones of same 
colors, and scroll-like foliage of deep green at center, passing into lightest 
green or white at the edges. In center" is a scallop-edged panel, bearing in 
large old-seal characters a poem composed by the Emperor and bearing his 
seal. Mark beneath foot as on No. 186. Height. 10 inches; diameter, 2^ 
and 8 1 inches. 

224. 225. ./rn-x (a pair), with covers, of white Chienlung porcelain. (Tlobular in shape. 

On a bright yellow ground are four groups of growing plants of white lotus 
tipped with pink, of white plum ])lossoms with pink centers, of white and 
pink j)eonies, and' of white and pink lotus flowers and green leaves, the out- 
lines and veining of which are engraved in the paste, contined above and 
below by bands of panel and foliate scroll patterns combining the .same col- 
ors as those used upon the flowers — green, white, and pink. Over the 
mouth is a close-fitting cover ornamented with two butterflies and two 
sprays of plum blossom on the same deep yellow ground — all covered with 
a brilliant .ransi)arent glaze. No mark. Height, lOJ inches. 

226. Vdfte of white Chienlung porcelain, shaped as a gourd contracted at middle 

(liiihi). Entirely covered with an elaborate design of trailing gourds (of 
same shape as vase) with conventional scroll-like leaves and bats outlined 
in gold and shaded partly in gold and partly in silver upon a dull olive 
green or "tea dust" {ch'(i-mo) ground. A very rare specimen. Mark as on 
No. 186. Height, 8 inches. (See Plate 13.) 

227. Pencil holder of white Chienlung porcelain, of slender, cylindrical shape. The 

philosopher Lao Tsze, on his way to the palace of the Fairy Queen, Hsi Wang 
Mu (see No. 28), is represented soaring upon a cloud, arranging his shoe. 
In the distance is the moinitain palace of the fairies, with the Queen's azure- 
winged attendant birds {ch'inrj niao), all beautifully moulded in high relief 
under a brilliant, deep yellow glaze. No mark. Height, 5 inches; diameter, 
I5 inches. 
228-233. 117?;^ cwp.s (6) of white porcelain, plain inside. Nos. 228, 230, 231, 233 are 
studded with small, conventional, star-like flowers, circular in shape, of 
various colors delicately shaded, on a celadon ground. Nos. 229 and 232 
bear the same flowers, but outlined and shaded in gold on a dull black 
ground. No mark. Height, 1| inches; diameter 2| inches. 



898 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

2:54. Plate (tf white Chienlun<r ponrlain, entirely cuvered with a l)nlliant, pale cela- 
don {ilaze, above which i.s deplete*! in ])rij;ht gold a cinnip of l)aniboos 
Hprinfjing from rocks, with a short poem eulogistic of their l)eanty. Mark 
as on No. 186. Diameter, 1| inches. 

•l^^:^. Vase of pure white Chienlung porcelain, of flattened, Imlbous shape, with 
straight, slender neck. Outlined by engraving in the paste are flaming sun, 
colored carmine, and conventional clouds colored white, l)lue, green, and 
carmine, and above foot waves of brilliant green, with foam and breaking 
edges of pure white. The ground outside of the incised decorations is deep 
imperial yellow, on which are two imperial five-clawed dragons (see No. 4), 
one descending from the clouds, the other rising from the waves, beautifully 
drawn and shaded in deep brown, the yellow ground appearing through the 
shading. At rim of neck is a foliated scroll border engraved in the paste and 
colored white with blue outline; inside colored yellow. No mark. Height, 
\\l inches. (See Plate 14.) 

230. Viixf of j)ure white Chienlung porcelain of Inncelle shape. In tumbling waves of 
l)rilliant lilue (shaded) with light foam crests is a four-clawed dragon of 
resplendent white beautifully moulded in high relief, covered with a very 
thick, transparent vitreous glaze. A lieautiful and effective ornament. No 
mark. Height 14| inches; diameter, 7| inches. (See Plate 2.) 

287. Si))if-hottle of pure white Chienlung porcelain, with stopper to match. Circular 
in shape, very thin and flat. Upon a pale lemon-yellow ground are two 
round scalloped gourd.s on trailing stems, bearing five-petal flowers, some 
white, some pink, and leaves of various shades of green delicately shaded, 
with a butterfly on either side below with outspread wings, painted in deli- 
cate tones and with considerable skill. Mark Chien-lnng-nien-chih: "Made 
in reign of Chienlung." 

2.'58. Vdt^c of white Chienlung porcelain, pear-shaped, with low, narrow everted neck. 
On a white ground are four imperial five-clawed dragons (see No. 4), well 
y drawn and shaded in carmine amid chrysanthemums and formal lotus (the 
so-called western lotus) with trailing scroll-like foliage, all in deep blue, 
confined at foot and at top by a deep band of foliated panel-pattern in blue, 
with small ornament in magenta in center. Above this band at top and 
extending to foot of neck is a band of longevity fungus in magenta with blue 
scroll leaves. Round the neck a circlet of banana leaves pointing upward. 
Mark as on No. 180. Height, 14 inches. (See Plate 15.) 

230. Suiijl -bottle of pure white Chienlung porcelain, small, of circular shape, some- 
what flattened, with a handle formed by a grotesque lion's head holding a 
ring in its mouth moulded in relief on the convexity of either side, colored 
vermilion and picked out with gold. On the body are stalks of pink and 
white peonies, pink rose, white yulan {magvolia conspicua) and red plum 
blossom sjiringing from rockery, very beautifully painted under a brilliant 
transparent glaze. Mark as on No. 186. Height, IJ inches. 

240, 241 . Ji<iwlx{n pair ) of ])ure white Chienlung porcelain, with everted brim. Deco- 
rated inside at l)ottom with octagonal ornament and, alternately, formal 
flowers and butterflies rising from the eight sidjes of the ornament; above 
and round the sides, four gourd-shaped vases delicately ornamented with 
geometrical and scroll designs and bats and chrysanthemums, suspended 
over them being elaborate hexagonal canopies with long streamers depend- 
ent from the six angles. Outside are four medallions of pure white, inclosed 
by gold band and containing a group of table articles, of which the chief is 
a vase containing a branch of plum or other blossom, with a small delicately 
ornamented jar covered with canopy and streamers depending from the 
branch; the remaining articles l)eing dishes of fruit, a water-holder, incense- 
burner, etc., delicately painted. Between the medallions a small conven- 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Hippisley. 



Plate 13. 




Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Hippisley. 



Plate 14. 




Vase of White Chienlung Porcelain ^No. 235). 

For explanation of plate see page 398. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Hippisley. 



Plate 15. 




Vase of White Chienlunq Porcelain 'No. 238i. 

For fxplanation of plate see page 398. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 399 

tional lotus flower below, and a larger flower of same above, with scroll-like 
foliage on a <leep magenta ground, whieh is covered outside the flowers and 
leaves with delicate foliate ornamentation engraved in the i)aste. Earliest 
specimens of the so-called "medallion bowls" which a few years ago brought 
sucli high prices in England. Mark as on No. 186. Height, 2^ inches; 
diameter, 5| inches. 
:'42. DIkIi of white porcelain, of low, slightly ovate shape, formed by a lotus leaf 
(Xi'linnhiiiD) xjteciosKiii) curling uj* at edges, veining incised on in.side and in 
relief on outside; a flower and seed-pod ascend on outside from beneath leaf 
to rest on its edge, while a lizard crawls from inside having its body on the 
leaf-edge and head raised itloft. Covered throughout with flue "peacock" 
green glaze, uncrackled. No mark. Diameter, 8i and 9| inches. 
243. Snuff-bottk of pure white Chienlung porcelain, of flattened ovate shape termi- 
nating in long, slender neck. On one side is Yang Kuei-fei, and on the 
other Hsi Shih clad in rich embroidered robes playing on the guitar, painted 
with great delicacy above 1)rilliant glaze. No mark. 

Yang Kuei-fei, the daughter of an obscure otflcial in the modern Szee- 
huen, was introduced by the designing minister Li Liu-fu into the 
seraglio of the Emperor Ming Huang, of the T'ang dynasty (died 
A. I). 762). Becoming enamored of her beauty, the Emperor aban- 
doned the wise counsels of Chang Yiich, Chang Chin-ling, and other 
ministers, under whose administration the empire enjoyed great 
prosperity, and sank, year by year, more deeply in the toils of amo- 
rous dalliance. The Princess Yang's three sisters were also intro- 
duced into the seraglio and endowed with valuable fiefs. No outlay 
was spared in gratifying the caprices and covetousness of this family 
of favorites, and the nation was sacrificed to the licentious enjoy- 
ment of the court, till at last the people rose in revolt, the aged 
monarch was forced to take refuge in western China, and, after 
undergoing the mi.sery of witnessing the butchery of his favorites, 
to abdicate in favor of his son. 
Hsi Shih, the daughter of humble parents, but the ne plus ultra of love- 
liness in Chinese tradition. A report of her consummate beauty 
having reached the ears of her sovereign, Kou Chien, Prince of 
: Yiich, a state occupying the east coast of China below the Yangtse 

in the fifth century B. C, he had the girl trained in all the accom- 
plishments of her sex and sent her as a present to his victorious 
r rival, the Prince of Wu, in the hope that her charms might prove 

I his ruin. The stratagem was successful and Fu Ch'a, Prince of Wu, 

J abandoning himself to lustful dalliance, was ere long defeated 

J and crushed. It is said of Hsi Shih that finding her beauty was 

* enhanced by an air of melancholy, she was accustomed to knit her 
.* brows as though in pain, and this device, adding as it did to her 

attractiveness, was copied by rival beauties, who vainly sought to 

* equal her charms. ' 

r 244. Vnse, white Chienlung porcelain, Vjulging from foot to two-thirds height, then 
I contracting to short everted neck. Ornamented with long trailing stalks of 

^ conventional lotus flowers and leaves moulded in relief on paste; confined 

> below ))y foliate panel ornamentation, also in relief, with shading engraved 

in the paste, and at)Ove, by a band of same, having above it a band of geo- 
metrical pattern and round the neck a foliate band, both engraved in the 
paste and covered by a celadon glaze so faint as to be almost white. No 
mark. Height, 12| inches. 



'Mayers, Chinese Reader's Manual, No. 571. 



400 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

245. \'(isr of white Chienlnng porcelain, j)ear-shaped like No. 288, but more slender, 
having nine imperial live-clawed dra<?ons (see No. 4) surrounded by flecks 
of flame souring in mid-air and rising from waves which are incised in the 
paste around foot, all finely moulded in relief, with crisp outline on the 
|)aste antl covered with a deep peacock-green glaze coarsely crackled. A 
beautiful specimen of this rare ware. No mark. [M. du Sartel gives a 
drawing in his work of a similar vase, which he (erroneously) refers to what 
he terms la prenuerc. epoqiw — that is, the early portion of the Ming dynasty, 
lifteenth century.] Height, 14 inches. (See Plate 16.) 

24(). I'liiril-holder of pure white Chienlung porcelain, of cylindrical shape with much 
everted mouth and corresponding foot, and bound in middle by a raised 
l)and ornamented with flowers and leaves; from either side of this band 
sjjrings a circlet of veined banana leaves, all incised in the jjaste under a 
l)rilliant transparent glaze. A Chingte-chen coi)y of a similar article of the 
Tingchow ware of the 8ung dynasty, an ancient bronze vessel having served 
as the original model. No mark. Height, 2| inches; diameter at mouth, 
'i^ inches. 

247. Boirl of white Chienlung porcelain with everted brim. Decorated, outside, with 
grasses, yellow lotus flowers, blue and red pinks, peonies, and leaves of vari- 
ous shades of green well painted on somewhat dull vermilion ground; with 
flowers on white ground at bottom inside. Mark as on No. 1815. Height, 2| 
inches; diameter, 5|- inches. 

248-251. Rici' hinnls oi white Chienlung porcelain, with everted brim. On outside, 
l)andsatrim and above foot, of foliated scroll work in white shaded with 
vermilion on a ground of same color, confine a plain white s])ace on which 
is written in vermilion characters a long poem composed by Emperor Chien- 
lung and bearing his seal and date of "the spring of Ping-yen," that is, 1746. 
On inside on plain white ground, at bottom bran(^hesof pine, plum blossom 
(emblems of longevity, seeNo. 181) and the "Buddha's hand" citron {Citrus 
mrcodactylus) in vermilion; on side two bands of scroll work similar to those 
on outside. Mark as on No. 186. Height, 2J inches, diameter, 41 inches. 

252. ]yini' cup of thin, pure white Chienlung porcelain, with wide, open mouth, 
inside plain, covered with r)rilliant transparent glaze. On outside, between 
1 wo narrow bands of Grecian pattern at rim and above foot is a very close 
and delicate ornamentation of lotus flowers and leaves, engraved, as is the 
(Irecian pattern, in the paste, which is unglazed. On this, as ground, appear 
two imperial five-clawed dragons moulded in relief and beautifully drawn 
and shaded in vermilion under brilliant glaze. Mark as on No. 186. A very 
curious and beautiful specimen. Height, 2 inches; diameter, 4^ inches. 

25:1 I'InIr of white Chienlung porcelain, decorated inside with red peony {P.rmna 
■iiioKtaii), white yulan ( Marinolla conxpicua) and l)uds on a deep blue ground 
ornamented with a foliate decoration engraved in the paste. On outside 
under brim five bats, symbolical of the five kinds of hajipiness, in vermil- 
ion. Mark as on No. 186. Diameter, 8 inches. 

254, 255. Plak's of white ('hienlung porcelain, similar to above. Decoration on inside 
consists, however, of sprays of red rose, asters, and pomegranate on a green 
ground similarly ornamented with foliate decoration engraved in paste. 
Mark and size the same at last. 

256. I'hili' of white ('hienlung porcelain. On light whitish carnune ground orna- 
mented with conventional lotus flowers and leaves in deej) carmine, on which 
are five foliated panels containing landscape scenes in enamel colors, in fore- 
ground (jf each of which is a FAiropean clad in the dress of the Louis the 
Fourteenth period, ))earing a swt)rd, a branch of coral, aj«-i (see No. 81), a 
crutch, and the model of a European house on a salver. Outside decoration 
and mark same as on No. 258. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 900.— Hippisley. 



Plate 16. 




Vase of White Chienlung Porcelain (No. 245). 

For explanation of plate see page 400. 



I 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 40l 

2iS7. /'/r(^' of wliitt' Chicnlun-j: porcelain. On a vermilion jironnd ornamented with 
eonventional lotu8 flowers and leaves in gold are five foliated panels con- 
taining landscapes painted in enamel colors. Outside decoration and mark 
same as on Xo. 253. 

•_'5S. Phih' of white Chienlung poriielain. On pale yellow-brown mottled ground 
resembling agate are five foliated panels containing landscapes in enamel 
colors, in foreground of each of which is a child carrying a halberd, a lotus 
Hower, Aju-l, a Buddhistic sacred relic {she-h) on a salver, and one pursuing 
a butterfly. Outside decoration and mark same as on No. 258. 

259. J'lidi' of white Chienlung porcelain. On a light green ground covered with deli- 

cate cloud-like ornaments in black are sprays of lotus, roses, peonies {I'lvonia 
inuii f a II ), p\nm blossoms, and chrysanthemums in natural colors. Outside 
decoration and mark as on No. 253. 

260. Boirl {smaM) of white Chienlung porcelain. Plain inside. Outside, on a pale, 

rich, celadon ground are flowers painted in vermilion, with leaves of enamel 
green. Mark as on No. 186. Height, IJ inches; diameter, 3J inches. 

261. Vdsf (small) of white Chienlung porcelain, of slender jar shape. Covered with a 

broad, double band of modified Grecian pattern in relief on basket-work 
ground engraved in the paste, confined above and below by bands of foliate 
design in relief with incised shading. Round the neck circle of banana 
leaves in relief with incised shading, all under transparent glaze having a 
celadon tinge. Mark as on No. 186. Height, 7 inches. 

262,263. Plate'i (a pair) of white Chienlung porcelain, circular with upright edges, 
small. In center is a gourd and two sprays of flowers tied with flowing 
ribbons held by a bat with outstretched wings amid clouds, very delicately 
moulded in relief and covered throughout with a pale celadon glaze. Mark 
as on No. 186. Height, 1 inch. 

264. Vdsf of pure Avhite Chienlung porcelain, curving inward slightly above foot, 
then bulging gradually to two-thirds height, when it contracts gradually to 
near mouth, which is slightly everted. At foot, a narrow band of conventional 
lotus flowers and leaves. Above, confined by band of foliated design engraved 
in the paste are four conventional lotus flowers with scroll-like leaves and 
flying bats so arranged that five bats ( im fu, or five kinds of happiness) appear 
round each flower. At base of neck is a narrow band studded with small 
dots (gems) in relief. Above, round the neck, a broad band of ornamentation 
similar to that on body, confined at top by band of foliated scroll work. The 
ornamentation throughout is moulded, boldly but with great delicacy, in 
relief upon the paste, and is covered with a brilliant deej) celadon glaze 
approaching white in the highest portions of the relief. Mark as on No. 186, 
l)ut in shape of a seal and in high relief. A unique and very beautiful speci- 
men. Height, 11 J inches. (See Plate 17.) 

[265. \'<iKi' of pure white Chienlung porcelain, of flattened bulbous shape with long 
slender neck which represents half of total height. Upon the body of the 
va.se is a inang, the tail of which curls upward round the neck (see No. 9), very 
boldly moulded in relief with heail erectand long beard depending from chin, 
covered throughout with a brilliant celadon glaze, the rnang being spotted 
with marks of red and brown mixed, shading off into the glaze, and on the 
l)ody of the vase are curious cloud-like splotches of deepest olive green shad- 
ing off at the edges. Mark as on No. 186. Height, 12g inches, 
ti. ]'axi' of white Chienlung porcelain of slender bulbous shape with neck ending in 
trumpet-shaped mouth, entirely covered outside with a uiiiform glaze in 
(;olor between vermilion and deep carmme. Rim of mouth and inside plain. 
Mark as on No. 186. Height, 11| inches. 



402 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

2H7. f'niril-inixher of white C'hienlnng porcelain, in shape renembUng an S scroll 
with tall perpendicular sides. Inside l)iscuit unjjlazed. Outside covered with 
a uiiil'orm deep green (called l)y Chinese " cucinnher green " ) closely crackled 
(truite). No mark. Height, 1^ inches; length, Hi inches. 

268,2(59. lo-s^.s (a pair) of white Chienlung porcelain, a pomegranate fruit in 
shape — of the kind termed /rt»(^<'. The mixed blue and white colors which 
cover the mouth and inside, flow down and become specially prominent in 
the hollows at junction of the sections, the latter being a brilliant purple red, 
antl the contlictiug tints gradually merging into one another at the edges of 
contact; all covered with a brilliant thick vitreous glaze. 

270. T'/.sr of white Cliienlung porcelain shaped as a gourd contracted in the middle. 

Covered with deep red having a somewhat mottled appearance on lower 
globular portion, under a brilliant, thick vitreous glaze, the edge of the 
mouth inside and out being white, though the color appears inside farther 
down. Xo mark. Height, 8| inches. 

271. ]'aste oi white Chienlung porcelain, of ancient bronze design, in form of two 

diamond-shaped vases of which one-fourth of the length has been cut off 
and the sections united; at either end an elephant's head with trunk forms a 
handle just below neck, which is of same shape as that of the Ijody of vase. 
Covered with splotches, which have run into one another, of several dull 
colors, black, bottle green, and deep lake, giving the appearance of mottled 
agate, under a thick glaze. The i)orcelain is coarsely crackled like ice. No 
mark. Height, o^ inches. 

272. T'''.'*^ of white Chienlung porcelain, of small lancelle shape, bearing chrysanthe- 

mum flowers and leaves engraved in paste, over which under a rich vitreous 
glaze is a wavy pattern in yellows and browns resembling agate. No mark. 
Height, 6h inches. 

273. ^'/.^r of white Chienlung porcelain, bulging from above foot, then contracting 

concavely to form slender neck much everted at mouth. Decoration i-onsists 
of bamboos and chry.^anthemums outlined and shaded in black on deep blue 
ground, covered with thin but brilliant glaze. PMge of month black, inside 
plain white. No mark. Height, 11| inches. 
274, 27o. J'lutt'ti (a pair) of white Chienlung porcelain coarsely crackled. Orna- 
mented with circular splotches arranged in pattern around a large central one, 
in which white, red, and blue colors appear, giving each splotch the appear- 
ance of a crushed purplish red fruit. Covered with a thick vitreous glaze, 
which has collected between the splotches and thus formed a sort of frame- 
work of bottle-green hue. Outside similar splotches are arranged regularly 
around l)rim. A curious variety of .//«;/( ^V' style. No mark. Diameter, 9| 
inches. 

• The use of spiked metal supports to keep vessels of porcelain in position 
within the kiln has been generally considered peculiar, in the P>ast, 
to the Japanese system of manufacture. The marks of a seven- 
spiked stand on the feet of these plates show, however, that metal 
supports within the seggars have also, at least occasionally, been 
employed l)v the Chinese. 
27(). IV/.srof white Chienlung porcelain, of slender bulbous shape with long taper- 
ing nec;k, of thejUi)iihe variety. From its appearance one woulil judge the 
dec()ration to consist of a deep red ground on which hasl)een blown (.luiiffie) 
a blue and white composition, which had formed a multitude of closely 
jjacked blue and white circles, of irregular edge owing to their having run 
in tiie })aking, under a thick, brilliant vitreous glaze. At mouth the color 
lias (lisajjpeared, discovering the white porcelain under a crackled glaze. 
Lower ilown inside the color reajipears. No mark. A very fine specimen. 
Height, \(i inches. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Hippisley. 



Plate 17. 




O X 

b £ 

I 



CERAMIC ART TN CHINA. 403 

277. ]'<isr of jmre wliite Chienlung porcelain, nf iuilltoufj shape, Ion": neek ending 
with a small globe. Insi<le withont color. ()nt.«i(le is entirely covered with 
a deep xaiig-dc-ha'tif red, with streaks like fleecy clouds of bine discover- 
ing white, the edges of which shade into ])lack or very deep puri)le where 
the colors mingle, nnder a thick vitreons transparent glaze, crackled about 
mouth. No mark. An exceptionally line specimen. Height, 18J inches. 

L'7S. Flxh bovl (small) of white Chienlung porcelain, globular, colored Kdug-de-hwuf 
nnder a deep vitreous glaze. Rim white; then, on inside, red close to rim, 
and lower down where glaze ha.s run in leaking, streaked — of good color. No 
mark. Height, 3 inches. 

27V). Vdse of white Chienlung porcelain, (jlobular in shape, upper part of globe being 
cut at an angle of 45° to long neck which everts at mouth. On either side of 
neck is a han<lle formed by an elephant's head with inward curved trunk 
moulded in relief on the paste. Covered \\\{\\ Jidmbt: colors, red, l)lue, and 
white, which l)oth inside and out merge into one another, each predominat- 
ing in turn, under a thick vitreous glaze jjitted like orange-peel. ^louth 
rim remains white. Xo mark. Height, 14^ inches. 

280. I o.sv of white Chienlung porcelain, in shape of an inverted bulb, with small 
low neck covered with blue, red, and white .//«»(7>t'. Predominating color is 
red, but mottled with purple tints with blue and white appearing in places, 
under deep vitreous glaze pitted like orange-peel. No mark. Height, 8 
inches. 

281-284. Screen paaelx of white Chienlung porcelain. Two central panels, each 23| 
inches high by 9j inches broad, are flanked on either side by a panel of .same 
height and 5^ inches broad. On these is depicted, beautifully painted, Lao 
Tze, with lofty forehead and flowing white l)eard, in the mountain home of 
the Immortals, receiving two children riding the stag of longevity, with other 
children playing around, and genii coming to pay homage to the great 
sage, some on foot descending the mountains, some approaching on clouds, 
with Hsi Wang Mu herself preceded by her attendant l)irds (see No. 28). 
Around are twelve panels 3j inches wide and in length some 9^ inches and 
some llf inches, covered with formal lotus flowers and conventional scroll- 
like foliage, all in natural colors. A very l)eautiful piece of furniture, the 
frame l)eing carved black wood. 

28o. Fish bowl of thick white Chienlung porcelain, bulging gently from base to wide 
open mouth. Among thick fleecy clouds of souffle ])lue-black is a very boldly 
drawn, flying, prim-ely four-clawed dragon with row of large spines running 
along back, body of slightly yellow tinge, the scales beneath belly, horns, and 
nose white. No mark. Height, 85 inches; diameter, lOf inches. 

28(). Plate of enamel upon copper base; decorated with a painting of "Wang Chih 
watching two genii engaged in game of chess (see No. 18) under tree in valley 
between rising hills; conflned above and below by 1)and of foliated scroll pat- 
tern in black, picked out with gold on a light-l)lue ground; outside around 
rim a foliated scroll ])attern in Idue on white ground. Mark, ■djnn/ lnnnKj 
(see No. 4). Diameter, 8| inches. 

2S7. Plate of enamel upon copper ba,se; decorated with a painting of the famous poet 
Li T"ai-po, and companion in open country among rocks an<l trees engaged 
in the enjoyment of wine, of which, to judge by the size of the blue jar in 
background, they have a plentiful supply; outside decoration and mark .same 
as on last. Both admirably painted. Diameter, 8f inches. 

LiT'ai-po ( A. D. 699 to 762) is the most famous among the poets of China, 
and scarcely less noted for his love of wine. The curiosity of the 
Emperor Hsiian Tsung of the Rung dynasty having l)een aroused 
by the accounts made to him of the poet's genius, Li T'ai-p<t was 



404 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM; 1900. 

suimnoned to an interview in the }ialace, where lie was received witli 
exajigerated lionors. The Enijjeror liimself handed the dishes, his 
favorite and liaiijrhty concnbine was required to rub the ink for his 
use. and the chief eunucih and privy counsellor, Kao Li-Sze, had to 
divest him of his l)oots when overcome ))y wine. The Kmi)eror's 
favorite, smartin<i; under the indignity to which she thought herself 
sul)jected in his honor, l)arred the door to his official employment, 
and Li T'ai-po led "for the remainder of his life a wandering exis- 
tence, celebrating in continual flights of verse the praises of baccha- 
nalian enjoyment and of the beauties of nature in the various 
localities he visited." (Mayers.) 
288. Teapot and cover of earthenware from the Ni-hsing district in Kiangsu province. 
Of globular shape, much flattened. Round the lower portion are pine and 
plum trees very delicately moulded in V)old crisp relief; above, separated by 
a band of Grecian pattern incised in the paste, a single row of "old seal" 
characters in relief, from which it appears that the teapot was made at the 
special order of the Emperor Chienlung. On the cover is a scroll pattern, 
in relief, confined on either side by a band of Grecian pattern, and round 
the knob in the center is another band of same. A very beautiful specimen 
of this ware. Height, 2|- inches; diameter, 4i inches. 

SPECI.\L GROUP OP E(i(i-SHELL P()RCEL.\IN. 

289-294. Whie cups (6) of pure white Yunglo (1408 to 1424) porcelain of the variety 
termed <'o-<'ai, "bodiless," or "egg-shell," witht)road, oi)en mouth. Round 
the sides is a delicate ornamentation of fiowers and leaves faintly engraved 
in paste under a white enamel. On foot the mark, Yung-lo-nlen-diili, in seal 
character — "Made during the Yunglo period "—engraved in the paste. 
Unique specimens at the present time. (See page 335. ) Height, If inches; 
diameter, 3f inches. 

295. limrl of pure white Yunglo porcelain, called t'o-t'at, or "egg-shell," or, perhaps, 
/)^<ni t'o-t'ai, "semi-bodiless," though a bowl of this size would have little 
practical utility were it of less substance. Covered with white enamel over 
imperial five-clawed dragons (see No. 4) among clouds faintly engraved in 
the paste. Mark same as on last. The ornamentation on this and the six 
last specimens becomes more distinct when the articles are filled with li(|uid. 
Height, 2| inches; diameter, 8 inches. 

29()-2i»9. I'Uitea (4) small, flat, of the very thin white Ch'enghua (1465 to 1487) porce- 
lain, termed i'o-t'ul, or bodiless. Decorated with landscapes representing 
l)avilions with beetling rocks behind on the bank of a lake or river, i-rossed 
by row-boats having mat awnings, and a hjfty-peaked mountain in the dim 
haze of distance, painted in brilliant enamel I'olors above glaze. On brim, 
(•utside, are — three on each plate — sprays of roses, pinks, chrysanthenmms, 
iris, lotus, and coleus, also in brilliant enamel glaze. On foot, faintly en- 
graved in paste, mark Ch^eng-lma nien-chih "Made during the Ch'enghua 
])eriod." Very rare sjyecimens. Diameter, 4^ inches. 

300-303. Wine cups (4), of the very thin, pure white Ch'enghua porcelain, termed 
I'o-t'm, "bodiless," or egg-shell. Small, tall, and slender, with everted rim. 
On each is a miniature group of the Seven Worthies of the Bamboo grove 
(See No. 53) with an attendant bringing a jar of wine and flowers. The por- 
celain is so thin that the design, with all the details of color, can be distinctly 
perceived from the inside. Mark in blue characters under glaze Ta-miiKj- 
ch'eng-Iina-nien-chih, "Made during the Ch'enghua period of the great Ming 
dynasty." Admirable specimens of the highly prized wine cups of this 
period, which even in the sixteenth century brought extraoidinary prices. 
(See page 337. ) Height, 1 finches; diameter, 2 inches. 



CERAMIC ART TN CHINA. 405 

o04-3i;>. Wliu' cnpx (10) of the thin, pure, white K'iuighsi (lHti2 to 1722) itonvlain, 
termed Co-f'rii "bodiless," with wide, open, everted mouth. Each is deco- 
rated with a single spray either of roses, red phmi bh)ssom, pomegranate, 
peaoh, Y>eony (Pseoiiia montan) , chrysanthemums, or oi yiian yang (seeNo. 101) 
swimming among lotus flowers painted in enamel colors, the 1)ranches being 
outlined in blue under glaze. On each is a short poem extolling the beauty 
of the flower it accom})anies. Mark on foot Ta-rh^inr;-k^(ni(j-}ii<i-7iii'u-rhilt, 
"Made in the K'anghsi period of the Great Pure dynasty." Delicate speci- 
mens. Height, If inches; diameter, 2o inches. 

.314. Water holder, for nsoon student's table when prejiaring ink, of the pure white 
Yungcheng porcelain, termed ^'o-<'o^, "bodiless." In the form of a lotus 
leaf with crinkled edge, of which one-half (that forming the receptacle for 
water) turns up at edges, forming a small basin, which is half covered by the 
remainder of the leaf, arching over from the stalk. In the recess of the bent 
leaf are a pink, a beetle, and a fly, of tiny dimensions, painted with extreme 
delicacy and care. The toji of the stalk and veining of the leaf are incised 
in the paste, and, owing to the thinness of the latter, appear in relief under- 
neath. A most beautiful specimen. Height, 1 inch; length, 'i\ inches. 

31o-.';i8. Wine cups (i) of thin, white Yungcheng (1723 to 1735) f'o-t'ai or "bodiless" 
porcelain, of slender shape, with everted brim. Decoratetl with ideal land- 
scapes exquisitely drawn and shaded in sepia under glaze. Mark, 7a-ch 'itig- 
yung-cMng-nien-chih, "Made in the Yungcheng period of the Great Pure 
dynasty." Height, If inches; diameter, 2\ inches. 

319,320. Plates (a pair) of thin, white Chienlung (1736 to 1795) Vo-t'<il or "bodiless" 
porcelain. Covered over with white enamel, in middle of plate two ju-i 
crossed (see No. 81), with the figure of the two Primordial Essences (see No. 
40) in the center, and around the rim the eight Buddhistic emblems (see 
No. 54), all faintly engraved in the paste. No mark. Excei)tionally fine 
specimens. Diameter, 7^ inches. 

321,322. Rke-houis (a pair) of white Chienlung t'o-t'ai or "bodiless" porcelain. Cov- 
ered with white enamel over scroll-like sprays of conventional lotus flowers 
{hsi-fang-lien-hua or lotus of the west) and leaves engraved in the paste inside 
and out, but in such manner that the two patterns do not coincide in their 
outlines, and that, if bowl be regarded from inside or from outside, the pat- 
tern on the side looked at is alone visible. Mark Ta-ch'mg-chien-lung-nien- 
chili, "Made in the Chienlung period of the first Great Pure <lynasty," 
engraved in the paste under foot. Height, 2| inches; diameter, 5^ inches. 

SPECIAL GROUP OF VITREOUS WARE AND OU PORCELAIN .MADE, WITH IT AS MODEL, TO 
SECURE A LIKE TRANSPARENCY OF COLOU WITH INCREASED BRILLIANCY OF GROUND. 

323. Snuff-bottle (small) of dull, opaque, white vitreous ware, (jf flat elongated jJ0//V7/e 

shape, decorated with red lotus flowers and green leaves. Mark Ta-ch'ing- 
nien-chih, "Made during the (ireat Puredynasty," the distinctive mark of the 
earlier productions of Ku Yi'ieh-lisiian. (See page 347.) This ware is so 
highly esteemed Ijy tiie Chinese that it sells for higher prices than would 
similar articles of jade. Height, 2i indies. 

324. Water-holder (small) of dull, opaque, white Ku Yiieh-hsiian vitreous ware of 

cylindrical shape. Decorated with a landscape very beautifully jiainted in 
natural colors, representing a young shei)herd clad in Chinese dress, but 
whose features are unmistakably Eunjpean, tending a ram and two ewes on 
a grassy sward confined by lofty rocks, among which grow herbs and flower- 
ing trees. The painting is characterized by all the delicacy of touch of a 
miniature. Mark in form of a seal engraved in foot and filled with blue 
enamel, Lhien-bing-nien-ehih, "Made in the Chienlung (1736 to 1795) period." 



406 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900, 

Tlii.s anil tlu' next twelve npeeiniens, namely, down to No. 38l>, inclusive, 
were made under the Kupervision of T'wang ying (see page 33). Height, 1| 
incrhes; diameter, If inches. 

325. Pencil-holder of same ware, of cylindrical shape. Decorated with a group of 
the Seven Worthies of the Bamboo (xrove (see No. 53) conversing together or 
examining a scroll bearing a landscape with pine trees, on a green sward 
edged with Ijeetling rocks and flowering trees. An exquisitely drawn picture. 
Mark as on last. Height, 2| inches; diameter, 2| inches. (See Plate 20.) 

32(i. Wine-cKj) (small ) of same ware. Around the foot is a band of delicate red scroll- 
work on a yellow ground, with a very narrow band above of white foliate 
pattern on black ground. This and a broader foliate pattern at rim of the 
dull white color of the glass carefully shaded with straw-yellow upon a very 
pale green ground, confine the body of the cup, on which a yellow scroll- 
work forms two landscape panels. The intermediate spaces, slightly smaller 
than the panels themselves, are completely filled with peonies, chrysanthe- 
mums, convolvulus, lilies, asters, and many other flowers. A more artistic 
or delicately beautiful ornamentation than this and that of the following cup 
it would be difficult to find. Mark as on No. 324. Height, If inches; diame- 
ter, 2 H'lches. (See Plate 20. ) 

327. Wine-cnp (small) of same ware. Around the foot is a band of same j)attern as in 
last with an arabesque design above in carmine on a pink ground. Within 
this and a similar band around brim are delicate foliate patterns of the dull 
white color of the glass shaded with light brown on a ground of the same 
color, which confine the body of the cup. Here on a ground of the natural 
color of the ware is a fine damask in olive-green supporting four panels con- 
fined by yellow scroll-work — two square and two oblong. The former con- 
tain valley landscape scenes in winter season, anti the latter similar scenes in 
summer season, very delicateh' painted in deep pink or carmine. Mark as 
on No. 324. Height, If inches; diameter, 2 inches. (See Plate 20.) 

328,329. Rice-hoinls (a pair) of thin, pure white Yungt-heng (1723 to 1735) porcelain 
covered with a very brilliant, transparent vitreous glaze to secure the delicate 
transparency in the coloring remarkable in the Ku Yiieh-hsiian ware (Nos. 
323 to 327), and hence termed, as are Nos. 330 to 336, by the Chinese,./on'7- 
ku-i/ile]t-hs'uaii, modeled after that ware. Decorated with branching sprays 
of plum Ijlossom beautifully drawn and shaded in sepia above the glaze, the 
artist's idea being explained by a stanza to the following effect: 

The student sees the outline sharp 

Of plum-bloom by the moonlight cast 
On window blind, and breathe.s the scent 

Of unseen flow'rets wafted past. 

Mark as on No. 324. Height, 2^ inches; diameter, 4| inches. (See Plate 19. ) 
330. Tea-pot of jrare white Chienlung porcelain of globular shape and covered with 
brilliant vitreous glaze, upon which are very beautifully painted groups of 
white and of pink lotus flowers, and leaves crinkled into many, but quite 
natural, shapes and showing the dark upper and light lower sides, with buds 
and seed-j)ods. On cover are groups of the same flowers and leaves arranged 
in three clumps around the knob, which is a flattened globe bearing the 
character s/(o«, (longevity) in carmine. On tea-pot is the inscription: "Pure 
a« the virtue of the perfect man," that is, as jade, which from a passage in 
the "Classic of Ceremonial" is considered the symbol of such virtue, "har- 
monious as the strength of him who fulfills all hisduties to his fellow-men." 
Mark as on No. 324. Height, 4J inches. (See Plate 18.) 
331,332. Cujis ot same porcelain and bearing precisely the same decoration. No. 
330 came from the collection of the Prince of I. Several months later these 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Hippisley. 



Plate 18. 




Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Hippisley 



Plate 19. 




CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 407 

corresiHinding cups, whirh doubtless at one time l)eli)n^eil to tlie same 
owner, were purchased from among unclaimed goods in a Peking pawnslioi). 
Curiously, however, the seal attached to the inscription on tlie cups, though 
evidently by the same hand as is that on the tea-pot, differs from the seal 
on the latter. Height, If inches; diameter, 2^ inches. (See Plate 18.) 
333, 334. Vases (a pair) of pure white Chienlung porcelain, of flattened globular 
shape, with slender neck representing half total height, and everte<l brim, 
covered with brilliant vitreous glaze, on which the decoration is i>ainted. 
Around the foot is a band of light blue ornamenteil with delicate foliate 
scroll in violet. Above the band runs another l)and of jianel ornamentation 
in carmine edged with dull green, which with a band below neck of con- 
ventional dragons, alternately green and pink, on a magenta ground, in- 
close the boily of the vase. This, on a dee\) blue ground, ornamented with 
conventional clouds of yellow, green, blue, and red, and bats of pink shailed 
with carmine, and of yellow shaded with orange, bears four medallions with 
pure white ground of dazzling brilliancy, containing groups of flowers most 
delic-ately painted— peonies and bamboos; lilies, longevity fimgus, and red- 
seeded heavenly bamboo (XaudiHu domextica), lilies and poppies, and yellow 
hibiscus and green and red coleus. At foot of neck is a 1)and of orange, the 
neck itself being of lemon yellow ornamented with conventional flowers and 
foliage in many colors, confined below by a band of foliated pattern in 1)lue, 
shaded with deeper tones of the same color, and above by a similar band, 
outlined with a dotted border of blue, in carmine and shaded with the latter 
color, the decoration ending in a narrow border of pale yellow pattern out- 
lined with black. The colors are subdued in tone, producing a very rich and 
harmonious effect. Mark as on No. 324. Height, 7^ inches. (See Plate 21. ) 

335. Boirl (small), with slightly everted brim, of thin white Chienlung porcelain cov- 

ered with brilliant vitreous glaze. On a pale lemon yellow ground are large 
conventional peonies, of which the outer petals are of magenta purple and 
the inner petals of blue, having a magenta center, with buds of same colors, 
ami leaves of various shades of green. Inside plain. ^Nlark as on So. 324. 
Height, 2f inches; diameter, 4-1 inches. 

336. I'nse ot pure white Chienlung porcelain covered with brilliant transparent vit- 

. reous glaze. Of very graceful shape, resembling a much-flattened bulb with 
long tapering neck which represents three-fifths of total height. Ornamented 
with beautifully drawn red roses, yellow orchids (Maldxis and Epidendnnn) 
with leaves of deep green to former and of delicate grass green to latter. In 
this case at least the delicate transjiarency so admired on the real vitreous 
ware has been attained. Appended is the following inscription, .sealed with 
the author's nam de plumt : that is, his favorite designation: "The four sea- 
sons changed to an everlasting spring," "The perfect man of pure and 
world-wide fame. ' ' 

As flow'rs imprison'd hold each eve 

In lovintr clasfi the sweet moon's rays. 
So man, by loving flow'rs. each year 
Surelv prolongs his length of da vs. 

(See Plate lit.) 
* * * -X- •::■ -::■ * 

337. T'^.v (small) of white Chiach'ing (1796 to 1820) porcelain, in shape of a gourd 

contracted in the middle. On either side is a medallion formed l)y the char- 
acter shoit (longevity) on the lower swelling, and on the upper is a grotestjue 
winged bat, with two three-clawed dragons curling from top and encircling 
the lower (shou character) medallion. The dragons have foliated flames 
springing from their sides. The decoration, which is well drawn ami shaded 
in deep blue under glaze, is complete*! by a band of CJrecian pattern round 



408 KKPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

the fuot and l)y a band of foliated scroll-work round the rim. Mark Ta-M ing- 
chia-ch^ing-nien-chlJi, "Made during the Chiach'ing period of the Great Pure 
dynasty." Height, 7 inches. 
338, 339. Hoirls for growing narcissus, of white .C!hiach'ing porcelain of ovate shape 
divided into four scallops. Between a ])and at rim and another at foot of 
foliated scroll pattern is the decoration in chief, which, on each curved panel 
or scallop, consists of a character s/(om (longevity) in seal form surmounted 
by a bat, the decoration thus signifying "long age and every happiness," 
and supported on either side by conventional (or western) lotus flf)wers and 
leaves. The decoration is throughout in relief in whitish celadon on a 
ground of dark celadon. Mark as on No. 337. Height, 2 J inches; length, 
7| inches. 

340. la.sr of wliite Chiach'ing porcelain, of slender bulbous shape with long tapering 

nec;k, covered inside and out with deep green glaze ( known to the Chinese 
as "apple-green",) closely crackled. Mark as on No. 337. Height, 12^^ 
inches. 

341, 342. Plates of white C'hiach'ing porcelain with scalloped edges. Inside are five 

bats surrounding a medallion formed of the seal character .s/foi; — i.e., long 
life and every happiness — in vermilion, shaded, on a white ground. On out- 
side, round the convex brim are branching sprays of plum blossom and two 
birds left white on a vermilion ground and shaded with the color of the 
ground. Mark as on No. 337. Diameter, 51 inches. 
543. Boicl (small) of white Chiach'ing porcelain, with everted Ijrim. Inside plain. 
Outside entirely covered with flowers of many varieties in red and cream 
yellow on white ground — hence termed by the Chinese "cup of 100 flowers." 
Mark as on No. 337. Height, 2\ inches; diameter, 4 inches. 

344. Vose of white Chiach'ing porcelain, of cylindrical shape, with low neck slightly 

everted and, on either side, below contraction toward neck a handle in shape 
of an ancient altar, covered entirely with olive green dappled (souffle) with 
deep blue black. Mark as on No. 337. Height, 9^ inches. 

345. Smif bottle of enamel upon copper, of flattened globular shape. Body is entirely 

covered with a representation of a celebrated "picture of the hundred chil- 
dren" playing in a garden with pavilion and trees, etc., painted with great 
care and detail. On the neck is a band of foliate scroll pattern in deep 
blue u{)on a ground of very light shade of same color, and above it a band of 
delicate yellow-brown grass on a ground of light green. Mark as on No. 337. 
Height, 2J inches. 
346, 347. Bowls (large) , a pair, of white Taokuang (1821 to 1851) porcelain with wide 
open mouths. Inside plain. Outside are sprays of bamboos, with crisp, 
bold outline left white upon a deep 1)rick-red ground. Mark Ta-ch' ing-tao- 
kuang-men-cliih, "Made in the Taokuang period of the Great Pure dynasty." 
Height, 2| inches; diameter, 7| inches. 
348. Tea-Clip and cover of thin white Taokuang porcelain, with wavy brim. On a 
ground of waves closely engraved in paste are Han Hsiang-tz'u and an 
attendant sailing on a tree toward a pavilion far away in the clouds, and 
on the cover is a woman (? Lao-yii) riding a fnig-lnumg (see No. 4) toward.s 
a distant pavilion among the clouds. Mark as on last. Height, 3f inches; 
diameter, 4 inches. 

Han Hsiang-tz'u is one of the Eight Immortals of Taoist fable. He was 
an ardent votary of transcendental study, to whom Lii Tung-pin, 
another of the Immortals, appeared and made him his pupil. He 
is represented riding ujjon a tree trunk to immortality, in reference 
to the legend that having l)een carried into the peach-tree of the 
genii (see No. 27) he fell from the branches and entered upon a state 
of immortality. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— H 



pplsiey. 



Plate 20. 




Report of U. S. National Museurr,, 1 900.— Hippisley. 



Plate 21. 




CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 409 

349. Pencil liolder of iinglazcd pure white Taokuang biwcuit, of broad cylindiical 
tihaite. Decorated with a landscape of good design moidded in high reUef, 
representing an old man riding a mule, followed by an attendant, over a 
two-arched stone bridge across a mountain torrent towards a monastery built 
among a grove of ti'ees on a valley slope. Behind are towering hills, with 
roofs of other monasteries and a pagoda appearing here and there among the 
peaks. Mark as on No. 346 in relief. Fine specimen. Height, 5| inches; 
diameter, 4^ inches. 
35(^352. Wine rnpx (3) of white Taokuang porcelain. Inside, at bottom, is a pink 
lotus flower l)earing in center a IJuddhistic ornament in gold. On outside 
around the brim is a border of the Eight Buddhistic Emblems (see No. 54) 
in vermilion, each two being separateil by a >ihon or "longevity" chai-acter 
in seal form in pale green. Below are the seven paraphernalia of a Chakra- 
vartli or universal sovereign (Sanskrit Sapta Batna). Between each pair is, 
below, a small castle on rocks; above, grotesque animals' heads M-ith depend- 
ent bead-fringe — all painted in colors and gold. ]Mark in Mongolian charac- 
ters Bararjon Tumet. Height, If inches; diametei*, 2f inches. 

Mark. A daughter of the Emperor Taokuang married the Prince of 
Western Tumet, a principality of Southern ^Mongolia, and these eui)s 
are probably part of a service made for her as a wedding present at 
the Imperial potteries. 
The Sapta Ratna consist of (1) the golden wheel or disc, (2) lovely 
female consorts, (3) horses, (4) elephants, (5) divine guardians of 
the treasury, (6) ministers in command of armies, and (7) the won- 
der-working pearl. 
3.i3, 356, 366. Rice-bouis (3) of pure white Taokuang porcelain with slightly everted 
brim. Inside at bottom, within a double ring, are sprays of chrysanthemum, 
peony, plum blossom, and pine, and around the sides four large sprays of the 
same plants, the pine, however, giving place to the lotus. Outside, on a 
ground covered with a foliate design closely engraved in the paste under a 
lemon-yellow glaze, are four pure white medallions, gold-edged, containing 
groups of peony. Magnolia yulan, plum, chrysanthemum, and lotus, beauti- 
fully painted. Between the medallions are longevity fungus and conven- 
tional lotus with scroll-like foliage. i\Iark as on No. 346. Height, 2f , 2^, 
and 2f inches; diameter, 5|, 5|, and 5| inches. 
354, 355. Rice-bowls (a pair) of pure white Taokuang porcelain with slightly everted 
brim. Inside is a star-like decoration at bottom with eight foliated points 
in vermilion, shaded with deeper tones of the same color and outlined with 
gold, between the })oints being conventional flowers of deep blue, shaded 
with darker blue. The outside decoration is same as on last except that 
the four medallions, instead of containing flcnvers, are ornamented with land- 
scapes of lake and mountain scenery, representing the four seasons. Mark 
as on No. 346. Height, 2k inches; diameter, 51 inches. 

357. Rice-bowl of pure white Taokuang porcelain. On a ground closely covered with 

a foliate pattern engraved in the paste under a lemon-yellow glaze are vases 
decorated with blue containing sprays of peony, a plate of i:)omegranates, 
etc., in enamel colors. Between the flowers are three gold-edged medallions 
containing, one a water buffalo, another a ram, and a third a ewe in grassy 
meadows with flowering trees. ^lark as on No. 346. Height, 2J inches; 
diameter, 5| inches. 

358, 359. Rlce-boicls (a pair) of i)ure white Taokuang porcelain with slightly everted 

brim. Inside at bottom, within a double circle, is the philosopher Lao T'ze 
(see No. 54) , riding on a water buffalo meeting the Queen of the Fairies, Hsi 
Wang-mu (see No. 28), at who.se feet are a number of birds, with clouds and 
birds around, all in l)lu('. shaded with deeper tones of the same color. Out- 
NAT MUS 15M)(> 29 



410 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

side on a ground closely covered -with a foliated pattern engraved in the 
paste under a deep Ijlue glaz(> are four medallions, gold-edged, and in sjiaces 
between them are cumulus clouds in various colors. On the medallions are 
four mythologir-al subjects which have eluded effortsat identification, namely, 
two maidens in a pavilion among trees and rocks; three maidens in a meadow 
under the shade of trees approaching an altar; a maiden clad in a green robe 
and holding a rope, seated upon a cloud wdth seven magpies at her feet; and, 
lastly, a maiden in a red robe upon a cloud also with seven magpies. Mark 
as on No. 346. Height, 2^ inches; diameter, 5f inches. 

360, 364. Ricc-howh (a pair) of pure white Taokuang porcelain. Inside at bottom, 

within a double circle, is a wicker hand basket containing chrysanthemums, 
peonies, and other flowers, around which are four groups of longevity fungus, 
plum blossom, pomegranate, chrysanthemums, and grass in deep blue, 
shaded with darker tones of same color. Outside on a ground closely covered 
with foliated pattern engraved in paste under a deep magenta glaze, bearing 
conventional lotus flowers with scroll-like foliage in enamel colors, are four 
gold-edged medallions containing sprays of red and of purple peonies alter- 
nating with groups of pomegranate flowers and fruit on a pure white ground. 
Mark as on No. 346. Heiglit, 2| inches; diameter, 5| inches. 

361, .365. Bicp-howh (a pair) of pure Avhite Taokuang porcelain. Col(jr and decora- 

tion same as on No. 240. Mark as on No. 346. Height, 2h inches; diameter, 
5| inches. 
362, 363. Ric.e-boiols { a pair) of pure white Taokuang porcelain, slightly everted at 
brim. On inside are five bats in vermilion (symbolical of the five happi- 
nesses, (see No. 27), irregularly placed at bottom. On the outside are iris, 
the veining, etc., being in thick color in high relief, also conventional pink 
lotus, red peony, and flowers resembling the fox-glove and blue corn-flower, 
with scroll-like foliage, all beautifully drawn in enamel colors of bright 
tints on thick pale lemon-yellow ground. Mark as on No. 346. Height, 2^ 
inches; diameter, 5|^ inches. 

367. Bovi (small) of white Taokuang porcelain, with everted brim. Decorated with 

a spray of white j)lum and longevity fungus l)eautifully painted, and with a 
poem from the pen of the Emperor Taokuang bearing his seal. Mark SJim- 
te-t'aiiy, a designation applied by that Emperor to a portion of the imi)erial 
apartments and inscribed on the porcelain specially ordered by him for use 
there. Height, 21 inches; diameter, 4^ inches. 

368. Circular dish of white Taokuang porcelain, decorated with sprays of peonies in 

vermilion below glaze and pink above glaze, and with delicately painted 
butterflies and bees hovering over the flowers, the sprays spreading aroimd 
the rim and then crossing the brim to cover the interior of the dish. Mark 
as on last. Height, Ij inches; diameter, 6| inches. 

369,370. Rice-howls {large, a pair) of white Taokuang porcelain. Inside jjlain. Out- 
side, on a i)lain white ground not engraved, is the same decoration as on No. 
240. The mark for some reason has been ground away. Height, 2| inches; 
diameter, 6J inches. 

371. Jar of earthenware. The ornamentation, which is in high relief, consists of two 
l)ands of foliate scroll-work, confining an umbrella, a cylindrical flower-pot 
containing coleus, a gourd-shaped vase, and two rolled-up painting scrolls 
crossed, alternating with sheaves of ornate foliage, under a black-green glaze. 
Height, 3f inches. 

372-375. Platen (4) of pure white Taokuang porcelain covered with lirilliant glaze 
and decorated with l>eautifully painted sprays of W'hite plum blossom and 
(if pink roses, which, after trailing around the deep rim, cross the brim and 
cover the inside of the plate. Mark as on No. 346. Diameter, 4| inches. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 411 



MISCELLANEOrS (n)LLECTIOX OF SXUFF-BOTTl.ES. 

376. Of white porcelain and flat, circular in shape, formed by two lotus leaves, one of 

deep red trrading into light green at center, the other of deep green grading 
into pink at center, with butterfly settled upon each. Admirably moulded. 
No mark. 

377. Of white porcelain and ovate in shape, decorated on one side with a Chinese 

rebus, three shrimps grasping reeds, which reads San-hsia mi-Ch'uan-lu. If 
the third character be omitted, the phrase — by the substitution of characters 
differently written, but having the same pronunciation — means "three gen- 
erations have gained jiositions in the first class at the highest literary exami- 
nations." On the opposite side, eighteen crabs, a similar rebus, meaning "at 
eighteen gained second place at the highest literary examination." Mark 
Tuo-kuamg- nien-cJiih, "Made in reign of Taokuang." 

378. Of white porcelain, in shape of a young girl, dressed in a jacket of blue damask 

and trousers of red and gold brocade. She has the contracted feet of the 
Chinese women. Body hollow, stopper formed bj' one foot, which is remov- 
able from trousers. No mark. 

379. Of white porcelain, in shape of a boy, intended to represent T'ung Fang-so (see 

No. 27 ) , dressed in a robe of red and gold brocade open to skin from neck 
to waist, green undergarments, and a summer season official hat, which is 
removable and forms stopper. No mark. 

380. Of white Chienlung (1736-1795) porcelain and flat ovate form. The cream- 

yellow paste is engraved to represent waves, on which a boat containing two 
of the Eight Immortals (one male and one female, see No. 172) is being 
rowed among lotus flowers. Moulded in high relief and painted in enamel 
colors. Fine specimen. Mark Ta-ch^ing chien-lnng-nien-chih. 

381. Of white porcelain and flat ovate shape. Decorated in colors with a rebus on 

either side — a saddled elephant })earing a jar-shaped houdah, reading in 
Chinese Hsiang pel t'ai p^hig, which also means "Peace rules in the north," 
and a tub full of green growing wheat, reading ; f'ling ta ch^ing, "the whole 
Empire (oAvns) the Great Pure dynasty." Mark Chien-an-ga-r Mh, "Made 
for Chien An-ya," an unidentified name. 

382. ( )f white Chienkmg ( 1736 to 1795) porcelain and of flat circular shape, decorated 

with mythological personages painted in colors. Mark as on No. 380. 

383. Of white Chienlung porcelain and of small potiche shape, decorated with plum 

trees of the pink and white blossom varieties, perched on which and on 
ground are one hundred magpies, symbolizing "a hundred, that is, every 
kind of happiness," the magpie, from its merry-sounding chatter, being 
termed "the bird of happiness." Mark as on No. 380. 

The magpie is especially dear to the present occupants of the throne of 
China from the part it played in the divine origin of their first ances- 
tor. The Chinese chronicle runs as follows: Immediately east of 
the pumice peaks of the Ch'ang-pai-shan (Long "White Mountain) 
is a high mountain called Bukuli, at the foot of which is the small 
lake or pool Buhuli. After bathing one day in this pool, the maiden 
Li Fokolun found on the skirt of her raiment, placed there by a 
magpie, a fruit which she ate, and which caused her to give birth to 
a boy of an appearance different from ordinary people, whence she 
called him Yon lieaven-hom to restore order to the disturbed nations. 
His surname she called Aisin-(Tior(), his name Bukuli-yung-shun. 
She disappeared, and he, embarking in a small boat, floated with the 
river stream. In the neighborhood of a place where peoples of three 
surnames were at war, he disembarked, and was breaking off willow 
branches, \\hen one of the warriors, coming to draw water, saw him. 



412 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Amazed at his atrange api)earauce, the warrior hastily retired to in- 
form the people of the remarkalile man he had seen. The curious 
people went to the bank and asked his name and surname, to whom 
he replied: I am the son of the heavenly maiden Fokolun, ordained by 
heaven to redore peace amomj you, and thereupon they nominated him 
king, and he reigned there in Odoli City, in the desert of Oinohi, 
east of Ch'ang-pai-shan." Another version of the legend states that 
there were three heavenly maidens Angela, Changhela, and Foko- 
lun. The first two returned to heaven, while Fokolun remained on 
earth to nurse the miraculous babe till he grew up. Then she told 
him to wait till a man came to fish. The fisherman came and 
adopted the boy, and Fokolun ascended to heaven. Pere Amyot, 
from whom this account is taken, identifies Fokolun with a sixteen- 
armed goddess whom he calls Pussa, or the Chinese Cybele, but 
<lescribed at the present day as a Boddhisatwa, a celestial candidate 
for Buddhahood. The story continues that Aisin-Gioro, in spite of 
his heavenly birth, was put to death by his people, and only his 
youngest son, Fancha, escaped by the aid of a magpie, which 
alighted on his head as he ran and made his pursuers think him 
the stump of a tree. Fancha fled from Odoli across the Ch 'ang-pai- 
shan to Hotuala and there, some two centuries before the birth of 
Nurhachu, the first Manchu chieftain who took up arms against the 
Chinese, he laid the foundations of the future dynasty of China. 
(James, The Long White Mountain, p. 31.) 

384. Of white porcelain and bulging cylindrical shape, bearing an Imi^erial five- 

clawed dragon, well drawn in blue under glaze twisting around the bottle. 
No mark. Height, 3i inches. 

385. Of white porcelain, cylindrical in shape, the lower jwrtion divided into two 

fluted sections by three double bands. Decorations, branches of pine, bam- 
boo, and plum-blossom, symbolical of long life (see No. 181), in deep blue 
under glaze. No mark. Height, 3 inches. 

386. Of rock crystal, flat and circular in shape, the two faces of a Carolus dollar 

being carved in relief on the sides. No mark. 

387. Of agate, in shape, a flat oblong with beveled corners, showing an admirable 

representation of a horse feeding, naturally formed in the stone, in brown on 
a dull opaque white ground. No mark. 

388. Of pure white porcelain and of much flattened globe shape, decorated with a 

rebus on either side admirably painted in deep blue under glaze: (1) Three 
crabs holding reeds, reading san }}'ang hsich ch'uan lu, and also meaning 
" three generations gained the first class at the metropolitan examinations;" 
(2) two pigeons perched in a willow tree, reading erhpa {k'o)teng k'e, and also 
meaning ' ' at eighteen to be successful in the exanunations. " Mark Yim-shih- 
ya-chUi, "made for Yiin Sliih-ya" — an unidentified name. 

389. Of white porcelain, tall and cylindrical in shape; decorated with children play- 

ing, of the natural color of the porcelain on a ground covered with thick lilack 
glace. No mark. 

390. Of brown agate and ovate in shape. The surfac^e is carved so as to show 

monkeys of a yellow-white color gamboling in trees and on ground. 

391. Of white porcelain covered with a dark olive or "tea-dust" ( Ch'a-mo) glaze and 

pear-shaped. 

392. Of cream-white porcelain and of ovate form. On a light green ground, confined 

ab(jve and below by a narrow waving border of brick red, and moulded to 
represent waves are the Eighteen lohan (Chin.) or arhat (Sanskrit), the im- 
mediate disciples of the Buddlia (see No. 32) in high relief. On the cover are 
waving bands of brick red and green alternately. Good spet-imen. No mark. 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 413 

393. Of white porcelain and globular shape, decorated with an imperial (ive-clawed 

dragon in cloud.s pursuing the sun, painted in vermilion. INIark, a dragon. 

394. Of white porcelain and shaped as a small jar with wide mouth; decorated with 

landscapes in deep t)lue under glaze. No mark. 

395. Of white Yungcheng (1723 to 1735) porcelain and of cylindrical shape; orna- 

mented with imperial five-clawed dragons amidst clouds engraved in the 
paste under ? brilliant white glaze. Mark as on No. 85 
39t). Of white porcelain and of bulbous shape with slender n ?,k, covered with a 
mottled decoration of white, blue, and red wavy streaks. No mark. 

397. Of white Yungcheng ( 1 723 to 1735 ) porcelain and of elongated globular shape, deco- 

rated in deep blue under glaze with a representation of two of the Seven 
Worthies of the Bandjoo (Jrove (see No. 53) with attendant carrying books, 
under a tree near entrance to a pavilioia. ]\Iark as on No. 85. 

398. Of coarse porcelain, said to be of Sung dynasty (960 to 1278), and of globular 

shape with short neck and everted brim, covered with thick white glaze 
coarsely crackled. No mark. 

399. Of white porcelain and jar-shaped with wide mouth; decorated with imperial 

five-clawed dragons with oi:)en mouths and red tongues rising from waves and 
fiying through clouds in pursuit of sun — all in deep green. Broad flat cover 
ornamented with a similar dragon "sitting" in deep green. Mark as on 
No. 346. 

400. Of white porcelain and cylindrical in shape, decorated with a groui? of lotus 

flowers and leaves, and flags in deep blue under glaze. No mark. 

401. Of white porcelain and of slender lancelle form, bearing conventional lotus 

flowers (the so-called "Western lotus") and leaves, engraved in the paste 
imder brilliant glaze. No mark. 

402. Of white Yungcheng (1723 to 1735) porcelain and of cylindrical shape, deco- 

rated with painting in deep blue under glaze of a wrestling match in the 
courtyard of a yamen or official residence, in presence of the occupant. 
Mark as on No. 85. 

403. Of white porcelain covered with a crackled glaze and moulded in form of a rat 

feeding on a corn cob which it is holding between its feet. No mark. 

404. Of white porcelain and of circular shape, decorated with a landscajie in colors. 

Mark (unidentified), " Yu-f ang-ya." 

405. Of white porcelain and of bulbous shape, with slender neck; decorated with 

painting in deep blue under glaze, representing the Eighteen Lohan (Chi- 
nese) or Arhat (Sanskrit), the immediate di.sciples of the Buddha (see No. 
32). The mark attributes the snuff-bottle to the Ch'enghua period (1465 to 
1487), but it more ])robably belongs to the K'anghsi (1662 to 1722). 

406. Of white porcelain and of bulbous shape, with tapering neck, covered with a 

brilliant deep blue {bleu de roi) glaze. No mark. 

407. Of creamy white porcelain and of fiattened, circular shape; on a ground repre- 

senting waves engraved in paste are genii paying homage to the maiden im- 
mortal Ho Hsien-Ku (see No. 32). A fine specimen of this ware. No mark. 

408. Of white porcelain and of tall, ovate form, with cup-shaped neck; well moulded 

in open-work representing imperial five-clawed dragons amid clouds and 
flame, confined at top by foliate scroll and Grecian pattern bands, all colored 
deep vermilion; cover to match. No mark. 

409. Of white Ming dynasty porcelain and of tall, cylindrical shape, decorated with 

a painting in blue and vermilion under glaze of the Three Heroes, Chang 

Liang, Ch'en P'ing, and Han Hsin. No mark. 

Chang Liang was one of the earliest adherents and afterwards chief 
counsellor of Liu Pang, the founder of the Han dynasty, whose cause 
he embraced B. C. 208, and to whose triuinph he materially contrib- 
uted by his wise counsels, lie died B. C. 189. 



•114 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Ch'eii P'ing was of very liumble origin, but his virtue having brought 
liiiu into prominent notice he rose to high rank. Subsequently, 
like Chang Liang, he espoused the cause of Liu Pang B. C. 205, and 
made himself famous on six occasions by master strokes of policy, 
which greatly aided the succes.sful issue of the contest for the throne. 

Ilan Hsin was a grandson of the Prince of Han, whose territory had 
been seized by tl)e Ch'in dynasty. He also espoused the cause of 
Liu Pang, whose armies he commanded. After subjugating princi- 
pality after principality he was raised to princely rank, but having 
been accused of high ti-eason his person was seized. He was, how- 
ever, amnestied and given the government of T'ai-yiian, but again 
fell under suspicion and was this time executed by the Empress 
Lii B. C. 196. 

410. Of white porcelain and pear-shaped. On a white ground closely covered with 

peony sprays bearing blue leaves and vermilion flowers and liuds is an im- 
perial five-clawed dragon, also in vermilion. No mark. 

411. Of white Yungcheng porcelain and of cylindrical shajjc, decorated witli a paint- 

ing in brilliant ])lue under glaze, in the autumn evening (as the accompany- 
ing inscription states) an old gentleman, followed by attendant holding an 
umbrella over his head, enters a lamp-hung ferryboat to cross the river. 
Mark as on No. 85. 

412. Of white porcelain and of pear shape. The ornamentation is of unusual style, 

and seems to show the impress of Japanese influence. On a ground of 
magenta-vermilion appear medallions of the natural color of the i^orcelain, 
on one of which is the character xltou (longevity), on another pomegranate 
fruit, on anotlier a group of pine, bamboo, and plum blossom (symbolical of 
long life; see No. 181), and on others conventional flowers or diaper patterns. 
No mark. 

413. Of white unglazed (biscuit) jDorcelain, and of flattened globular shape, bearing 

four-clawed dragons rising from waves and flying through flames and clouds 
in pursuit of the sun, drawn and shaded in black. No mark. 

414. Of white Chienlung (1736 to 1795) porcelain, and of flat, jar shape. On either 

face, on white ground, sprays of peony, chrysanthemums, and other flowers 
spring from among rocks, painted in enamel colors. Round the sides and 
on neck are conventional flowers and scroll-like foliage in vermilion. Mark 
Chien-lung-nien-cldh, ''Made during reign of Chienlung." 

415. Of white porcelain and of squat jar shajw, covered with thick, black glaze, ex- 

cept on portions where appears the decoration, which is in blue under white 
glaze, and represents a father's return home. The son runs to meet him, 
while the wife, seated on a stool, awaits his coming, behind her being a 
large loom at which she has been working. Broad, flat cover of porcelain 
in imitation of jade, ornamented with the figure of yin-yang, the Two Pri- 
mordial Essences (see No. 40). No mark. 

416. Of agate. A life-like representation of a toad with wart-like excrescences all 

over the back. Handle of spoon is of deep-red coral elaborately carved into 
a bunch of peonies and leaves. 

MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTION OF BRONZES. 

417. Low, open tripod brazier, bearing three long panels, of which the ground is ex- 

cised, leaving Arabic characters in relief. Mark in relief K' (li-yuan-nlen-chih, 
"Made in the K'ai-yiian period" of the T'ang dynasty, A. D. 713 to 842. 
Height, 5J^ inches; diameter, lOJ inches. 

418. Jncetise-humer, in shape of a beautifully formed fruit of the "Buddha's hand" 

citron {Citrus sarcoductylus) , hollowed out to hold incense. Beneath, at 



CERAMIC ART IN CHINA. 415 

lower end, is a knotted stalk wliieh formy the handle and passes under the 
fruit so that the joints form sujiports on which the fruit rests, and leaves 
curl alonjr its side. Mark in relief Ta-»t'nuj ILsuav-lc-v leii-chih , "Made in the 
Hsi'ian-te period (1426 to 1435) of the great Ming dynastj'." Length, 9 
inches. 
419,420. Candlestickfi (a pair). From hexagonal pots on carved stands rises a lotus 
stalk out of which springs a bunch of buds and leaves, the central stalk bear- 
ing a fully opened flower which holds the candle. Delicately modeled and 
of good workmanship. Probably of same date as last. Height, 13j inches. 

421. Tripod incense-hnrner, formed of a circular bowl having a band of Grecian pat- 

tern round the rim with lotus flowers in relief below, and resting on three 
feet formed of elephants' heads, richly harnessed, with curved trunks. A 
handle on either side formed of similar elephant's head. The cover is 
formed of an elephant lying down among lotus flowers in open-work, and 
bearing on its back a basket of fruit. Height, 7f inches; diameter, 3| inches. 

422. Vase. — Around rim is a band of Grecian pattern with a deep one of foliated 

scroll-work below. The body is divided by two raised bands, the upper one 
almost in middle of the vase, between which are the character shou ( longevity ) , 
forming medallions, with two bats on either side; outside of this division a 
geometrical pattern resembling honeycomb, Avith a small medallion of divin- 
ities in center. Round the foot a band of geometrical panel scroll-work. 
On either side, on level of the u])per raised band already mentioned, is a handle 
formed by a rectangular projection inlaid with silver, supporting a lion or 
"dog of Fo. ' ' The ornamentation throughout is inlaid with silver. Marked 
Ssu Lou, a famous maker in the Sung dynasty (960 to 1278), but in reality 
an imitation, of comparatively modern date. 

423. 424. S)iiijf bottles of flat oblong shape with beveled corners. On a ground divided 

by bands into small squares, each containing a flower, is a central medallion 
containing immortelles. Ornamentation throughout in silver. Mark as on 
last. 

425. Pencil holder of cylindrical shape, bearing a landscape of river scenery with lofty, 
well-wooded mountains rising on either side, beautifully drawn and inlaid 
with gold. 

420. Incerise burner of open circular shape standing on three feet. Upon a ground of 
lines of Grecian pattern are four small medallions containing grotesque ani- 
mals. Round the rim and the tall looped handles rising from it is a wavy 
pattern in inlaid silver, the ornamentation throughout being similarly inlaid. 
Mark as on Xo. 422. 

427. Vessel (small) formed of a removable cup fitting into a circular body, lined with 

silver and decorated with inlaid work in the san)e metal. On the cup, on a 
ground of foliate pattern, confined above and below by a band of Grecian 
pattern, are four small medallions containing landscapes. The circular lower 
portion bears similar decoration. Good specimen. 

428. Tripod incense burner of circular shape on tall, slender feet; on body and legs a 

wavy, cloud-like pattern in outline; round the sides of rim and of tall rounded 
handles a band of Grecian pattern; on top of rim a scroll pattern, orna- 
mentation throughout being inlaid in silver. INIark Ssi'i Lou, this being a 
genuine specimen of the work of' this celebrated artist of the Sung dynasty 
much prized by Chinese connoisseurs. Height, 4 inches. 

429. Tripod incense burner of circular shape, on low feet, with cover. The body is 

ornamented with very delicately drawn landscapes inlaid with gold, having on 
either side a gilt lion-head handle. Cover in open work resembling a closely 
spoked wheel, surmounted by a lion, all gilt. No mark. Height, 3| inches. 



41(') KEPOKT OF JSTATIONAL MUSEUM, 19(R). 

430. Tripoli incense burner uf firciilar yhaije, on low feet. Body ornamented in manner 

similar to last and with similar handles. Cover consists of openwork flowers 
and foliage surmounted by a lion in relief, all gilt. No mark. Height, 3| 
inches. 

431. Tripod incense burner of circular shape, on low feet. On body, between two gilt 

lion-head handles, are two panels on which are sculptured in relief and gilt 
sprays of plum blossom, chrysanthemuuj, etc., and the mythical creatures 
fenghuam; (see No. 4) and ch'ilin. Cover consists of openwork chrysanthe- 
mumsand leavessurmounted by alion, all gilt. No mark. Height, 4| inches. 
Ch'ilin, rli'i being the designation of the male, and lin of the female, is 
the generic name of one of the four supernatural creatures of Chi- 
nese tradition. It is described as having the body of a deer, the tail 
of an ox, and a single horn, and as being the noblest form of animal 
creation. It is said to attain the age of one thousand years, and to be 
the emblem of perfect good, its apparition being considered the 
happy portent of good government or of the birth of virtuous rulers. 
Nevertheless, the ai^parition of one of these marvelous beasts was 
considered by Confucius as an omen of approaching evil, so mani- 
festly inappropriate was it to the disorder of his times; and he con- 
cluded the history of liis native state of Lu with the record of this 
event. 

432. Tripod incense burner, of broad, circular shape, on low feet. Round the sides of 

brim and of tall rounded handles runs a Grecian pattern. On body, covered 
W'ith square diaper pattern, containing in each diaper a flower of five 
rounded petals, are four panels containing representations inlaid in silver, as 
is the rest of the ornamentation, of grotesque animals. Mark as on No. 422. 
Height, 4i inches. 
433-434. Pencil holders of cylindrical shape, in imitation of basket work, over which 
are crawling tortoises and frogs, evidently of Japanese manufacture. 

MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTION OF OLD LACQUER WARE. 

435. Box of scalloped circular shape. On top, over ground of dark-green diaper, 
a landscape in red lacquer carved in relief, Avith a number of children play- 
ing. The sides are ornamented with a carved diaper pattern, the scallops 
being red, and deep green, with red centers alternately. This and tw'o fol- 
lowing numbers are specimens of the celebrated lacquer ware produced at 
Suchou, in Kiangsu province, during the reigns of Yungcheng and of Chien- 
lung. Height, If inches; diameter, 31 inches. 

43(5. Box of circular shape and of red color throughout. On a diaper ground are 
sprays of plum blossom and fruit in high relief, the fruit being diapered like 
the ground. Height, 2\ inches; diameter, 5| inches. 

437. Snuff bottle, heart shape. On a diaper ground of deep green are sprays of plum 

blossom, Malu.ds and Epidendrum, and longevity fungus in high relief, in red. 
Height, 2| inches. 

438. Jvori/, representing four segments of bamboo, in the interior of each of which 

is a spray of lotus, of plum blossom, of peony, and of chrysanthemum, 
respectively, beautifully carved out of a solid block. Admirable specimen of 
old ivory carving. Length, 2| inches; diameter, 1| inches. 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE HISTORY OF 
MUSICAL SCALES. 



CHARLiES KASSOX WEAD, 

Examimr, I '. S. Patent Officv. 



41/ 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Pag© 

I. Introduction 421 

II. Stringed instruments 424 

III. Instruments of the flute type 426 

IV. Instruments of the resonator type 428 

V. The influence of the }ia«d 433 

VI. Composite instnnnents 436 

VII. Conchisions 437 

Appendix 441 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



PLATES. 

Facing page. 

1. Stringed instruments - 444 

2. Flutes with equal-spaced holes 446 

3. Flutes with equal-spaced holes 448 

4. Flutes with equal-spaced holes 450 

5. Flutes with holes in two groups 452 

6. Flutes with holes in two groups 454 

7. Central American resonators or whistles 456 

8. Composite instruments - 458 

9. Pan's pipes 460 

10. Scales given by resonators 462 

TEXT FIGURES. 

Page. 

1 . European mandolin, after Viollet le Due 424 

2. Greek guitar, after Drieberg 424 

3. Terra cotta whistle, after 3Iahillon 430 

4. Bal)yl(jnian whistle, after Engel 431 

5. Chinese resonatons, after Amiot 431 

6. Globular whistles, after Frobenius 432 

7. Globular whistle, after Kraus 432 

8. Xylophones, after Kraus 436 

419 



COXTRIBUTIOXS TO THE HISTORY OF MUSICAL SCALES. 



Bj Charles Kasson Wead, 
Examiner, United States Patent Office. 



I. INTRODUCTION. 

In the development of inu.sical scales four stages may be recognized: 

1. The stag-e of primiti\'e music, where there is no more indication 
of a scale than in the sounds of birds, animals, or of nature. Students 
of the origin of music may give free rein to their fancy in this period, 
and the uncertain musical utterances of living primitive peoples may 
be construed in accordance with almost any prepossession of the hearer. 

2. The stage of instruments mechanically capable of furnishing a 
scale. This stage has l)een almost entirely overlooked by students and 
is the special subject of the following paper. 

3. The stage of theoretical melodic scales — Greek, Arab, Chinese, 
Hindu. Mediieval, etc. All the original treatises concerning these 
scales imply that a stage of development has been reached far in 
advance of the second. Thousands of pages have been written on this 
stage, largely polemical and lacking in insight, for the subject has been 
a dark one: but Ellis and Hipkins's work of 1885 has thrown a flood 
of light on it. 

4. The stage of the modern harmonic scale and its desceudent, the 
equally tempered scale, which are alike dependent both on a theory 
and on the possibilit}" of embodying it in instruments. The relation 
of this scale to the present study will be noticed later. 

These four stages, of course, overlap even in the same locality': they 
correspond in a rough waj' to the recognized four culture stages, 
namely: the savage, barbarous, civilized, and enlightened. 

At the outset it should })e recognized that the only working hypothe- 
sis the physicist can use is that of the instrumental origin of scales. 
Helmholtz's view that the harmonics in the voice and in the tones of 
instruments were influential in settling the positions of the notes of 
our scale is obviouslj^ consistent with this hypothesis; and his opinion 
that this influence acted on other scales need not be whollv rejected, 
though some of his historical authorities were untrustworthy, and 

421 



422 - REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

some of his coincidcnce.s between other scales and the harmonic scale 
can be exphiined in other and simpler ways. Writers less careful than 
Hclniholtz have made the assumption that these harmonics and the 
constitution of the ear must hav'e guided primitive musicians to a sub- 
stantially harmonic scale; and one writer has even maintained that 
instruments corrupted the taste of men. But as j^et there has been 
no such body of facts collected in support of this assumption as need 
delay one following out the other theory. Of course the knowledge 
of the scales is only a stepping-stone to the understanding of the music 
and something of the life of a people; so some day the materials worked 
into shape by the physicist may be built into a fairer structure by the 
psychologist. 

The broad fact which underlies all study of scales was recognized by 
the Greek musician Aristoxenus three centuries before the Christian 
era. He pointed out that the voice, in speaking, changes its pitch by 
insensible gradations, while in singing it moves mostly by leaps. We 
recognize the same fact when we say that a singer follows a scale^ but 
do not say it of a speaker. The one, to use the common figure, ascends 
or descends a ladder or staircase; the other follows a continuous slope, 
and may never step twice in the same place. Now, it is quite possible 
that in a song the voice may alwa3^s move by leaps, and in repeating 
the song always take the same leaps as closely as can be observed, yet 
never strike a note which it has struck before; just as one may toss 
a stone up and down on a hillside, marking each time where it lands, 
and after a hundred tosses finds it had not landed twice at quite the 
same level, or in striding up and down hill may never plant his foot 
twice at the same level. I think this was the character of the songs 
of the first stage and of nuich primitive song to-day, though the 
evidence is too scanty to lie conclusive. 

However this may be, it is certain that uiost peoples who have attained 
any moderate degree of civilization have attempted to limit the num- 
ber of steps to be taken by the voice in any song between the highest 
and lowest note, and to fix these steps by rules, so that man}' men 
ma}' learn them and be in substantial agreement. Various old writers 
give the rules in vogue among Greek theorists; in the last century 
Amiot described the Chinese rules, while in the last two decades the 
rules of Arab, Hindu, Japanese, and Siamese musicians have been 
made accessible. The most familiar rules, as is well known, depend 
on that law of vibrating strings which is followed by a violinist in his 
fingering — namely, that the frequency of vibration of parts of any 
stretched string is inversel}'^ as the length of the parts, provided the 
tension does not change. Our latest rule, historically derived from 
one of the many Greek and Arab rules by subdividing the whole tones, 
so giving twelve steps to the octave, is embodied on the neck of a guitar 
Of mandolin; h(M-«> it is obvious that the successive stopping points as 



HISTORY OF MUSICAL SCALES 423 

marked by frets get closer uiul closer together as the pitch rises. All 
musicians know that this number of notes, twelve, is found confus- 
ingly great for ordinary playing, and know the principles by which the 
player selects certain notes for any tune. But this nudtiplicity of 
notes has an important bearing on all studies on nonharnionic nmsic 
made by harmonic musicians. For every sound within the compass 
of the instrument comes very near to some one of the twelve n«tes and 
may readily be represented thereby, owing to the difficulty the hearer 
has in estimating deviations from the ftuniliar series und in noting them 
down. The results of this approximation are to mask all deviations 
from the twelve-tone piano scale, whether intentionally or accidentally 
made, and to make it appear to musicians, first, that nearly all the music 
of the world is performed substantially in our scale; and second, that 
any other theoretical scales, such as those found auKjng Orientals, or 
described by our European ancestors, are merely niathematical jug- 
glery and of as little significance as proposals for a change that occa- 
sionallv appear in modern musical or scientific journals. 

It is the purpose of this paper first to describe several types and 
forms of instruments wideh^ used, each embodying a principle of scale 
building distinctly unlike ours, though sometimes giving a result that 
seems surprisingly familiar. Nearly all these instruments, it will be 
noted, belong to what was called above the second or barbarous stage, 
though a few of them come from countries where musicians have 
reached the third and fourth stages. A second purpose is to present 
a new and generic principle of primitive scale-building applicable to 
the various types of instruments discussed. 

But before going further it must be recognized that the word 
"scale" has many meanings. Perhaps the lowest and loosest is — the 
series of sounds used in any nuisical performance, arranged in order of 
pitch. The one that will most closely fit the present needs is — the series 
of sounds produced upon a particular mstrument: Avhile th(» most 
exact definition, but one applicable only where musical principles are 
well developed is this: 

A i<cale is an indepenxiently reprocbiclhle s&rles (>t'.'«>iinds arranged 
in order of pitchy reeognized a>< <i sf/indord and p'tted for mn-ucal 
purposeii. 

While the last two definitions imply an instrument in which tne 
scales are emV)odied, the limitation is in appearance only, for there is 
no evidence that any musicians do have a standard series of tones, 
unless they have one or more instruments embodying it, and have 
learned the series directlv or indirectlv from such an instrument. 



424 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



II. STRINGED INSTRUMENTS. 






In sharp oontnitst to that widely u.scd division of a string which we 
know on the guitar, showing decreasing- distances between the frets as 
the pitch rises, we find many instances of a uniform spacing of the 
frets through a considerable. distance. Instances from four countries 
may here be cited: 

1. The Avell-known architect, VioUet-le-Duc.^ gives a figure (fig. 1) 
of a mandolin from the end of the sixteenth century which shows frets 
for the first seven semitones prettj' uniformly 
spaced ; the frets for the next five to complete the 
octave are again uniform, though closer than be- 
fore, and the following five are also uniformly 
spaced and still closer. Figures in other books ^ 
of European lutes, viols, etc.. very often show a 
similar equal spacing. These are too numerous 
to be lightly treated as artists' blunders. Two 
instruments in the United States National Museum 
are illustrated in Plate 1. 

"J. Among the Greek rules given 
by Ptolemy is one for the division 
called Diatonon homalmi^ in which 
the whole string being twelve units 
long the points for stopping would 
be at 11, 10, 9, and 8, giving C, a 
note between D\j and D, Et>, F, and 
G. Here it will be noticed the inter- 
vals get larger and larger as the pitch 
rises. Again, Carl EngeP refers to 
Drieberg's drawing of the ancient 
Greek guitar in the Berlin Museum, 
which has '"seven frets at equal dis- 
tances," but objects to it as it does 
not give a diatonic scale. The tracing of this drawing 
furnished by Professor Howard, of Harvard, adds to 
EngePs data the fact that the whole compass of the six 
intervals is slightly more than an octave (fig. 2). 

3. Among the instruments described in the Arabic treatise of the 



Fig.l. 

EUROPEAN MANDOLIN. 
After Viollet-le-Duc. 




Fig. 2. 
GREEK GUITAR. 
After Drieberg. 



' Dictionnairc raiHuimt' du mobilier fran^-ais, II, 1871, pi. li. 

^'M. Prtetorius, Syntagma Musicum, II, 1618. Reprint, 1894. Plates v, fig. '.V, \i, 
fig. 1; XVI, fig. 1; XVII, fig. 4; xx, figs. 1, 3. 

Bonanni, Description des instruments harmoniques. 2d. ed. Rome, 1776. Plates 

LII, LVII, LX, LXXI. 

J. Ruhlmann, Geschichti- der Bogeninstrnmente, 1882. Plates ix, figs. 2, 5, 6, 13; 
X, fig. 16; XIII, figs. 3, 8. 
*Music of the Most Aneient Nations, 1864, i>. 205, 



HISTORY OF MUSICAL SCALES. 425 

famous Al Farul)i.^ who died 950 A. D.. is tiie short-necked tanhonr 
of Baodiid, usually having two strings: on this a fret was first placed 
at one-eighth the length of the string from the upper end, and this 
space then divided into tive equal parts. As the compass on each string 
was but little over a whole tone, each step was about a quarter-tone. 
These ligatures or frets are called •'heathen '' or "pagan," and the tunes 
played on them '"heathen airs," clearly indicating that there was a 
scale native to the people whom the ]\lohanmiedan armies had con- 
quered, a scale utterl}^ different from either that of the lute or the 
tanhouroi Khorassan, with their resemblances to Greek scales. Three 
hundred years later, or about 1250 A. D., Safi-ed-din.' a famous musi- 
cian of Bagdad, wrote for his pupil, the son of the Vizier, a Treatise 
on Musical Ratios. He based them on string lengths, and in discussing 
instruments gives a figure of the frets on the neck of the lute, and it is 
noteworthy that these are equally spaced over a distance of a quarter 
length of the string. Further, he explains how of the ten frets in this 
short distance, located b^- various rules, five were fixed by arithmetical 
bisection or halving of the space between two frets alread}^ fixed; one 
of these, midway between what we should call D and E, if the open 
string gives C, was called the "Persian middle," and was very much 
in use in his time. Safi-ed-din^ further describes, in two connections, 
a division of the Fourth, like the Greek one already quoted, where the 
string lengths are 12, 11, 10, 9, saying it is consonant and much used; 
in fact it is preferred to one that is substantialh' like the theoretical 
diatonic scale; still it should be added that when he comes to arrange 
intervals to make up tw^o octaves he puts our arrangement along with 
the most agreeable half dozen genera. 

4. In India there has been in modern times a curious reversion from 
an elaborate historical scale of twenty-two steps to the octave, of which 
no modern Hindu or European knows the theor}', to an equal linear 
division;* one-half of the string on the sitar is bisected; the first or 
end quarter-length is then divided into nine parts, each marked 1)y a 
fret, and the second quarter-length into thirteen parts similarly 
marked. Out of the twenty-three tones within the octave the player 
selects a limited number, five, six, or seven, rarely eight, for any par- 
ticular tune. Most of the notes used are found on calculation to be 
deceptively close to the notes of our chromatic scale, and so may be 
easily confounded with them })v European hearers. 

5. This arithmetical division has been advocated b}^ European 

' Land's translation in Travaux de la 6'' session du Congres internationale des Orien- 
Talistes u Leide, 1883, pp. 107-114. 

'^Carra de Vaux'.s translation in Journal Asiatique, XVIII, 1891, p. 330. 

='Idem, pp. 308-317. 

*Tagore, Musical Scales of the Hindu^^, Calcutta, 1884, supplement. Partly quoted 
by C. R. Day, IMusic ... of Southern India, 1891, and Ellis, Journal Society of Arts, 
XXXIII, 1885, 1). .102. 

NAT MUS 1900- 30 



426 BEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

theorists, as by Janiard' in a treatise of 1759, a copy of which is in the 
Lenox Library, New York; and Fetis' in his brief account of this 
author refers to others who maintained similar views. 

III. INSTRUMENTS OF THE FLUTE TYPE. 

The simple flutes are instruments of a type more primitive and more 
widely distributed than fretted stringed instruments. These instru- 
ments are sometimes side-blown, as is the case with the modern flute; 
or end blown, as one blows into a key or pan's pipe; or blown with a 
whistle mouthpiece, like the flageolet; or blown with a weak reed, as 
the oboe. For the purposes of this discussion the mode of exciting 
the vibration is immaterial. All of them embody the law that the 
frequency of vibration of a column of air in a tube depends mainlj^on its 
length, and the variation in length of the air column so as to produce 
several sounds from one tube is produced by opening holes in the 
sides of the tube. In practice these holes never can open so freely to 
the outside air that the portion of the tube beyond them may be con- 
sidered as removed (the possibility or necessit}^ of cross-fingering 
proves this to the player), so the proper location and diameter of the 
holes to produce the notes of our scale of even quality are fixed, not 
by a simple law as the frets on the guitar are located, but by laborious 
experimenting to get a standard instrument which is then reproduced 
with Chinese fidelity. 

Now, as one looks over a collection of wind instruments, like the 
splendid one in the U. S. National Museum, or examines flutes figured 
in books, it will be eas}^ to recognize that there are two principal 
types — (A) those having the holes spaced at sensibly equal distances, 
and (B) those having two groups each of three equally spaced holes, 
the interval between the nearest holes of the two groups being obvi- 
ously greater than that between the holes of each group. As the 
common primitive method of making the holes is by burning, the 
holes are generally more uniform in diameter than those on European 
flutes of a century ago. 

Illustrations of flutes of type A are found in Engel's Musical 
Instruments, some of which are copied on Plate 2. Dr. Wilson's 
paper on Prehistoric Art' has many more illustrations, as the figures of 
bone flutes from Costa Rica and British Guiana, of pottery flutes from 
Mexico and the Zuni Indians, of tu))es with a simple reed from Egypt 
and Palestine, of wooden flutes brought from Thibet by Mr. Rockhill, 
and a wooden flute from the Kiowa Indians. Fetis* has a cut of the 
staghorn flute from the stone age with three equidistant holes, referred 

^ Jamard, Recherches snr la Theorie de la Musique. 
^Fetis, Biographie universelle des Musicieiis. 
^Report of the U. S. National Museum for 1896, pp. 325-664. 
* Histoire generale de la musique, 1, p. 26. 



HISTORY OF MUSICAL SCALES, 427 

to by Wilson (p. 526). So far a.s i.s known not one of the peoples 
from whom these instruments have come has an}^ musical theory, but 
some of them do have a principle of instrument construction; for a 
partly educated yoitno- Kiowti Indian, in Washington a few years ago, 
in a party under charge of Mr. James Moone}^ showed the writer how 
the holes on a flute on which he played were located by measuring- 
three tinger-breadths from the lower end to the lower hole, and then 
taking- shorter but equal spaces for the succeeding holes. The inter- 
preter added that he had seen the holes spaced by cutting a short stick 
as a measure. The late jNlr. F. H. Cushing has furnished the addi- 
tional fact that measurement by finger-breadths is very common among 
Indians: and Dr. Fewkes' gives a figure to show how the prayer 
sticks, used by the Hopi Indians in the Snake ceremonials at Walpi, 
are measured off into seven parts bj' the distances from creases on the 
hand to the tip of the finger. On the Kiowa flute (Plate 4. No. 2) the 
distance between the centers of the holes is 32 mm., which is two 
medium finger-breadths. Some instruments of this type belonging to 
the U. S. National Museum are shown in Plates 3 and 4. 

But it is not only among primitive and prehistoric peoples that 
such a succession of holes is found. The common military fife has it. 
The ])agpiper recently seen on the streets of Washington used a 
chaunter (oboe), the holes of which were at sensibly equal distances, 
so conforming to the well-known fact that the bagpipe scale is inten- 
tionally unlike the harp scale. A Japanese Fouye with 7 holes figured 
in the catalogue of the Kraus collection at Florence shows to the 
eye holes at nearly equal spaces, and has, as reported, the steps of 
the scale increasing in length as the pitch rises. From Egypt' there 
have come twenty-five 3- and 4-hole ancient flutes, or more exactly, 
oboes, and a few of 5, 6, and more holes. One of the 4-holed instru- 
ments from a tomb of about 1100 B. C. shows the holes 35 mm. apart 
and the lowest hole twice this distance from the bottom. Villoteau's^ 
plates of modern Egyptian instruments show various types of tubes 
with cqualh' spaced holes. 

Flutes of the second or B type with two groups of equal-spaced 
holes were sold in quantities at the Java \illage at the World's Fair 
held in Chicago in 1S03 (Plate (i, No. 1). No two of the instruments 
seemed to have the same length or location of holes, but this group- 
ing was unmistakable. Of this type is also a curious ancient Chinese 
instrument, the Tche^ described by Amiot,* closed at both ends with 

'Journal of American Ethnology and Archaeology, IV, 1894, p, 25-2r>. 

-Loret, Journal Asiatique, 8th ser., XIV, 1889, pp. Ill, 197. Musical Times, Lon- 
don, XXXI, 1890, pp. 585, 713. 

^Description de r Egypt, Etat moderne, II, 1809, plate cc. 

*Memoires concernant I'histoire .... des Chinois, VI, 1780, p. 76, pi. vi, fig. 42. 
Mahillon, Brussels Conservatory Catalogue I, No. 865. 



428 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

an embouchere at the middle and holes S3'^mmetiically placed on each 
side dividing the whole length into thirds, quarters, and sixths; so, if 
the whole length is called 12, the month hole is at 6 and the linger 
holes at 2, 3, -1, 8, 9, and 10. Mahillon copied th(* instrmnent, but did 
not close the ends, and reports the scale as a chromatic one from E to A #. 
Most of the old P^uropean wood wind instruments figured by Prjeto- 
rius* (1618) arc conspicuously of this type, as the appended Plate 5 
shows without necessity of description, and various similar instru- 
ments of the Museum collections are figured in Plate 6. 

IV. INSTRUMENTS OF THE RESONATOR TYPE. 

1. The next group includes a variety of instruments of the resonator 
type, a type that is widely distributed and conforms to a law hitherto 
unrecognized as capable of furnishing a scale; though Sondhaus in 
1850 stated the law and tried a few rough experiments. The mathema- 
ticians" have proved that a mass of air in a confined space with a very 
small nearly circular opening, as a short-necked bottle or a whistle, 
has a frequency of vibration proportional to the square root of the 
fraction which expresses the diameter of the hole divided by the volume 
of the cavity; and if there are two such openings so placed that the 
flow of air through one does not interfere with that through the other, 
the numerator of the fraction will be the sum of the two diameters. Now 
extend the same principle, and one may have a series of sounds rising 
in pitch as one after another of several holes in the wall is opened; 
and provided the character of the vibration is not essentially changed, 
the frequencj^ of vibration of these notes will increase as the square 
root of the sum of the diameters of the holes opened. Suppose, for 
example, that a vessel has one mouth-hole of diameter 2 and several 
properly placed finger-holes of diameter 1; then on successively open- 
ing these a scale may be produced having vibration frequencies in the 
ratio of the square roots of 2, 3, -1, 5, etc. A moment's consideration will 
show that in such a scale the intervals between successive sounds 
become less and less as the pitch rises, instead of becoming greater as 
is the case with strings or flutes where the spacing of frets or holes is 
uniform. 

The most ehiborate and beautiful illustrations M instruments of this 
t3'pe are from graves in Central and South America. (See Plate 7.) 
The United States National Museum has many whistles from Chiriqui 
in Colombia, most of them giving but a single high note; these difl'er 
substantially, it will be noticed, from stopped organ pipes, since in the 
latter the mouth extends the full width of the tube. Whistles with 
one or two finger-holes have come from Mexico and San Salvador, but 
the most complete and perfect are from Costa Rica. Of these the one 

'Syntagma Musicum, pis. ix and x. 

*Rayleigh, Theory of Sound, II, 1878, Chap. xvi. 



HISTORY OF MUSICAL SCALES. 429 

bearing- the catalogue number 59970 (Plate T, tig. 1) has served as the 
type speciuieii. and is the instrument which led to this investigation. 
It has a glol)ular body with bird's head, a mouthpiece aljout in the 
position of a bird's tiiil, and four tinger-holes on the liack symmetri- 
cally placed; these holes seem to be precisely equal in diameter, and 
equivalent in nuisical effect, so the order of lingering is a matter of 
indifference, and all the tones are clear and distinct; in Dr. Wilson's 
paper.^ Mr. Upham, who is a violinist, notes them as F. A, C, D, E. 
On measurement the volume was found to be 36,0 cc, the equivalent 
diameter of the trapezoidal mouth hole 1 cm., and the diameter of the 
iinger holes .65 cm.; these diameters, however, need a correction on 
account of the thickness of the walls, since the air can not pass freely 
through the rather thick wall. The tinal result of the calculation is 
to give, with all tinger-holes closed, the note F on the highest line of 
the tre})le staff', to within half a semitone, and on opening the finger- 
holds in any order to give the succession of intervals 4, 3, 2, and 2 
equal semitones, with a mean error of only one-eighth E. S. Accord- 
ing to the theory the series of intervals depends onh' on the ratio 
between the diameters of the holes and the mouth hole, in this case 1 
to 1.62; so the series of tones has vibration frequencies approximately 
as the square roots of 1.6, '2J), 3.6, 4.6, 5.6, or of 1, 1.62, 2.24, 2.86, 
3.48; but the pitch of all depends on the quotient of the radius of the 
mouth-hole b}^ the volume. Although the theoretical correction for 
thickness of wall can not be quite precise, it affects all the holes to 
nearly the same extent, and the greatest probable error that can be 
assumed will not change the whole compass more than half a semitone; 
so the calculated scale would still be substantially what the ear con- 
firms — F, A, C. D, E, or in syllables do, mi, sol, la, si. 

The Museum has several other Costa Rican instruments also of 
pottery quite similar in appearance to this, but not capable of giv- 
ing such clear tones, or quite so perfect in the equality of the holes. 
If the holes are unequal in diameter, in thickness of wall, or in loca 
tion with reference to the vibrating mass of air, the order of pitch will 
depend on which holes are opened instead of merely on how many; 
with five holes sixteen combinations are possible; but of the eleven 
instrimients in the Museum eight give only five notes each, two give 
seven notes, and one gives nine notes. If the finger-holes are small 
relatively to the mouth hole, the compass is small, so one high-pitched 
whistle has a compass of only six semitones — G to C4f — and another runs 
from B to E; three hav^e a compass of seven E. S., that is, a musical 
fifth, and tw^o each have, respectively, eight, nine, and eleven semitones. 

Still other National Museum instruments, similar in principle, but 
ruder in workmanship and more grotesque in form, have come from 
Chiriqui, Columbia, and are figured in Dr. Wilson's report, pages 628 

1 Report of United States National Museum for 1896, p. 617. 



4Hn 



KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



to 046. In other niusoiinis siinihir instruinonts are to be found. A 
few from Chiriciui were ])riefly described fort}'^ years ago as belonging 
to the American Ethnological SocietJ^^ 

In the American Museum of Natural History in New York, as 
reported by Prof. F. W. Putnam, half a dozen such three- and four- 
hole whistles from the region of Santa Marta, Colombia, are to be 
seen; while under his charge at Cambridge, Mass., there are a number 
from the Uloa Valley, Central America;"^ of those figured, three have 
three finger-holes and are said to give five notes each. 

In the Brussels Conservatory Collection ^ there are twentj^-five terra 
cotta instruments from Mexico; two of them are clearlj^ of this 
resonator type, giving five notes and having a compass, respectivel3% 
of eight and eleven E. 8. (fig. 3). Lastly, a similar 
instrument described and figured b}- Dr. Walter 
Hough, in the Report on the Columbian Historical 
Exposition at Madrid. 1S1»2-1893, has the small com- 
pass of six E. 8. The point should again be empha- 
sized that with these instruments the notes get closer 
and closer together as the pitch rises; for instance, on 
the type instrument the successive intervals are in 
whole numbers 4, 3, 2, 2, E. S. ; on the Brussels instru- 
ments, 3, 2, 2, 1, and 4, 3, 2, 2; on the Madrid speci- 
men, 2, 2, 1, 1. A i'hurt (Plate 10) will show more 
accurately what the four intervals are with any speci- 
fied ratio of holes, and whether there is appreciable 
error in expressing the interval in whole numbers. 
Of course the calculations assume uniformity in the 
blowing, for it is easy for the performer to vary the notes by a con- 
siderable amount. 8till, it is a surprise to find how well these simple 
scales satisfy the ear. 

A sort of stone flageolet from Costa Rica appears to be connected 
with these instruments in principle (Plate T, fig. 8). This is closed 
at one end and has a small mouth opening and four finger-holes 
arranged in pairs; its scale of seven notes from Hye holes proves that 
the holes are not acoustically equivalent, but the two of each pair are 
found to be nearly equivalent; so on trial it appears that the square 
root formula may be applied, by giving to the mouth-hole the value 5, 
to each of the nearer holes the value 1, and to the other holes the value 
2; then the vibration frequencies will be as the square roots of the 
numbers 5 to 11. The calculated intervals from the lowest note are 
1.0, 2.9, 4.1, 5.1, 0.0, 0.8 E. 8.: the observed intervals are 2, 3, 4, 5, 
6, and 7 E. 8. 




Fig. 3. 

TERRA COTTA WHISTLE. 
After Mahlllon. 



1 Magazine of American History, IV, 1860, pp. 144, 177, 240, 274. 
■■'Memoirs of the Peabody Museum, 1, No. 4, pi. ix. 
^Mahillou's Catalogue, 11, Nos. 852, 853. 



HISTORY OF MUSICAL SCALES. 



431 




2. A pottery whistle found in the ruins of Bal)ylon, datinj>' probably 
from about 500 B. C, is in the Museum of the Royal Asiatic Society, 
London' (tig". 4). Ro\vl)otliam'' says this is similar to the reindeer 
joint used by the cave men. Its extreme length is 3 inches and it 
has two finger holes. The three notes are stated to be C (of 525 d. v.), 
E, and G; but the holes not being ([uite 

equal, the E from one of them is a (juartei- of 
a tone fiat. By blowing hard the G can be 
carried up to A. The chart (Plate 10) shows 
that if the interval C-G is exacjt, with equal 
holes the intermediate note E will be a very 
little sharp of the piano note, but the differ- 
ence is onl}' about 1 per cent, one-fifth of 
a semitone, and so is utterly negligible in 
notes of such imccrtain intonation. 

3. Striking comparisons have sometimes 
been made, and especially by the late Prof. 
Terrien de la Couperie, between the Assyrian 
and early Chinese civilizations. Whatever 
their relations may have been, it is curious 
that the only instrument of the resonator 
type, having several finger holes and coming 
from a people who had a musical theory, is 
the HsiXan (Van Aalst)^ or Hinen (Amiot)* of the Chinese, said to have 
been invented some 2,700 years before our era, and still used in the 
Confucian ceremonies, though very rarely seen. It is described as a 
hollow^ cone of baked clay about 8i inches high, having a mouth-hole 
at the top, three equal finger-holes on one side, and two equal holes on 

the other. The descriptions available 
are inconsistent and incomplete, but 
that given by Amiot a century ago is 
the fullest. He reports the scale as re*, 
fa, ■sol, I((, doj re, and as he gives a cut 
(fig. 5), also th(^ diameters of holes and 
the external measures, an approximate 
calculation can ]>e made of the scale by 
the laws of resonators. The pitch of 
the fundamental comes out D above 
middle C, and the other notes, F, G, 
and A, for one side; then starting anew for the other side we get C and 
D, all within a quarter of a semitone. This, it will be noticed, is a five- 



Fig-. 4. 

BABYLONIAN WHISTLE 
After Eiigel. 



% 




CHINESE RESONATORS. 
After Amiot. 



' Engel, Music of the Most Ancient Nations, p. 75. 

•■'History of Music, II, p. 628. 

=' Chinese Music, Shanghai, 1884, p. 82. 

^M^moires concernant I'histoire . . . de.s (ihinois, p. 225. 



432 



REPORT OV NATIONAL MrSP:rM, ISKK). 




Fig. 6. 

OLOBULAR WHISTLES. 

After Frobenius. 



step scale, like most of the theoretical Chinese scales. The aj^reement 
between the mathematical theoiy and observation is strikingly close. 

4. All the cases thus far referred to have been of prehistoric or very- 
ancient instruments. But some curious little instruments of this type 
are fitjured b}^ Frobenius^ (fig. 6) as "a splendid parallel between the 
cultures'- of some West African tribes and the natives of New Pom 

erania. These are little whistles made out ot 
gourds (a, b, d) or potte rj' (c) . They have the 
mouth-hole and two, three, or four finger- 
holes. No dimensions are given. Kraus, of 
Florence, figures and describes' a similar 
instrument from Melanesia made of a gourd 
6 cm. in diameter, having three finger-holes 
close to the mouth-hole (fig. T). The scale is 
stated to be A, B, C#, E, F, but no further 
measures are given. HowcA^er, this series is 
easily obtained by assuming the diameter of 
the mouth-hole to be 1.0, of one hole 0.3, and 
of the others 0.6; apparently D# is omitted. 
In the Finsch Collection in the American Museum of Natural History, 
in New York City, there are several similar g'ourds of different sizes 
having three finger-holes. They are labeled "Blasekugeln," "used 
by women." 

5. In Europe there have been many instruments depending on the 
same general principle of resonance in a nearly closed cavit}" (in dis- 
tinction from the open or closed organ-pipe principle), 

but not conforming to the simple law already set 
forth. Prsetorius^ in his famous book of 1618 gives 
figures and descriptions of several such instruments, 
along with the recorders, flutes, violins, etc., that one 
reads of more frequently; for instance, he says the 
fagotti are sometimes closed at the extreme end, but 
have a side hole; the Cornamuse has the end closed and 
holes in the side. Besides these he describes various in- 
struments having stopped bodies on reeds — the rankett, 
bear pipes, etc. , and similar forms on the organ. These things have all 
gone out of use along with the other delicate and weak-toned instru- 
ments of their times. To-day musicians demand tones more powerful 
and richer in harmonics than instruments of this type can give. But 
a curious survival or revival of this earlier type occurred in the middle 
of tills century, which is told of in Groves's Dictionary of Music. A 
blind peasant, named Picco, gave public performances in London on a 

' Der Urspruug der Afrikanischen Kulturen, 1898, p. 150. 
^ Archivio per L'Antropologia e la Etnologia, XVII, 1887, pp. 35-41, fig. 5. 
Syntagma Musicuin II, pp. 41, 48, 85. 




Fig. 7. 

GLOBUI,.\R WHISTLE. 
After Krans. 



HISTORY OF MUSICAL SCALES. 433 

flageolet 2 inches long- and liiivino- only thive holes. By partialh' or 
wholly closing- the end of the tube with his hand he made use of the 
resonator principle to lower the pitch of his notes; so he obtained a 
compass of more than two octaves. The instrument is similar to 
Prfetorius's .schtrelgeP except that it is shorter, and the accuracy of 
the notes performed would depend almost wholly on the performer. 
Later a traveling troupe appeared in European cities with seven 
instruments called ocarinas. These are familiar to us, being on sale 
everywhere. They are properly resonators, but the holes are more 
numerous than in the instruments already considered and vary widely 
in size. The scale, which the instruments furnish with more or less 
precision, is not dependent on any simple principle, but is adjusted by 
the maker by varying the sizes of the holes so as to conform to a scale 
fixed on other instruments. 

V. THE INFLUENCE OF THE HAND. 

All the instruments of the three groups now discussed are ' ' fingered;" 
that is, the acoustical dimensions of the vibrating string or mass of 
air are varied as the player manipulates the fingers of one or both 
hands. These instruments therefore involve a feature not associated 
with drums and other instruments of percussion, or with primitive 
harps. Instead of using the hand as a whole, the more delicate 
fingers are utilized separately; so the simple instrument becomes in a 
peculiar sense a part of the pWer's means of self-expression and is 
specially responsive to his own moods, as many legends of the power 
of music testify. But leaving to the musical writers such compari- 
sons between instruments, it is important to the physicist to recognize 
that the dimensions of the human hand have fixed absoluteh'^ some 
dimensions of these instruments. 

The first thing to strike one, considering the hand from this point of 
view, IS the fact that only with difiiculty can the five digits be brought 
into line, so the thumb is not used on primitive instruments for finger- 
ing, so far as observed. In the more highly developed flutes there 
may be a hole for it on the back side, while on our own flutes, clari- 
nets, etc, it governs one or more kevs. Similarly, the little finger 
does not readily fall in line with the three longer ones, and, besides, is 
much weaker. The remaining three fingers on a hand of medium size 
can be brought into a space of about 1 cm., or spi'ead to span perhaps 
12 cm, (.5 inches). To fix one's ideas before comparing these limits with 
measures on some actual instruments, it will be convenient to recall 
that on piano key])oards the distance between key-centers an octave 
apart is 165 mm, {^Sh inches), the same as on a spinet of 1002; but on 
the physiologically designed Janko keyboard, with the octave distance 

* Syntagma Miisicum, p. 39, pi, ix. 



434 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

140 mm. (5i inches), an ordinaiy hand can readily span an octave and a 
Fifth, because the lingers are not forced into line. 

Examining- iir.st some string instruments, it is found that on a guitar 
of New York make (No. 55690, U.S.N.M.) the distance between frets 
ranges from 'S'S to 14 mm. The greatest distance noticed between 
frets is on the large Siamese Am Chappee (No. 27810, U.S.N.M.), 
where there are three spaces, respectively, of 71, 73, and 77 mm. A 
similar instrument examined at the World's Fair held in Chicago had 
the corresponding spaces 60, 60, and 67 mm. The string lengths to 
the first frets were, respectively, S78 and 740 mm. The smallest dis- 
tance observed between frets is the above-cited 14 mm., except 'that 
the Syrian lute, Blzug (No. 95144, U.S.N.M.), has two spaces of 
12 and 13 mm. On most instruments the frets cease when the limit 
of 20 to 25 mm. is reached. It is obvious that these and similar data 
for fretted instruments are not of much importance unless one can 
know that the hand was not shifted from one fret to another. 

AVith our instruments shifting is notoriously common, but the histories 
of the violin report that two or three centuries ago it was a notable thing 
for a player to shift. The usual theory of the old many-stringed instru- 
ments, of which the Arab lute is a particularly good example, required 
the strings to he tuned in Fourths, and the string lengths were not too 
great f oi- the four fingers to govern all the frets within this range — that 
is, in a quarter-length of the string — so a shift would be unnecessary. 
On the Arab lute ^ there were sometimes ten very unequally spaced frets 
in this space, but for any one tune only a few of them were used, and 
in the principal modes, ' Ochaq and Rast, one fret each for the index 
and ring fingers sufficed to give substantially our diatonic scale. 

With simple wind instruments the case is quite diflPerent, for sev- 
eral fingers must be used simultaneously to cover holes, so the hand 
can not be shifted. In the Kiowa flute referred to above the uniform 
distance between holes is 32 mm. ; in the stone whistle from Mex- 
ico, 20 mm.; in the four Egyptian flageolets and oboes figured by 
Villoteau (his Plate c c) the intervals are, respectively, 12, 15, 15, and 
36 mm. These distances require only a convenient spread of the 
fingers. Many other measures can readily be obtained from the 
accompanying figures with their appended scales. 

If the musician has a theory demanding that the holes be so near 
together or so far apart as to make direct fingering inconvenient or 
impossible, keys with long or short levers are added, as on modern 
flutes and clarinets, while among the Romans extra holes were bored 
to provide for several genera, the holes not needed for any tune being 
closed b}' plugs or rotating rings. 

In a few cases wind instruments are found so long that the player's 

'Land, Travaux <le la & Congres des Orientalistes, 1883, pp. 107-114, or Ellis, 
•lournal of the Society of Artw, XXXIII, IsSo, j). 502. 



HISTORY OF MUSICAL SCALES. 485 

anil is too short to reach the lower end. Then, necessarily, the holes 
to lie tinge red are located at the middle or ujiper end of the tube, but 
the holes are so small that the pitch of the resultinj>- notes is much 
lower than the position of the holes would suggest, so the discrepancy* 
to the ear is not as great as to the e^-e. In other cases the length is 
misleading, for the holes are bored obliquely or holes are bored in the 
tube below the holes to be lingered, thereby raising and adjusting the 
pitch of the lowest note, as Mahillon shows in the Brussels catalogue 
(Nos. 830, 1039, HIT, 1119, and 1123) and Villoteau shows on his Plate 
c c, No. 1. This is a possible explanation of the superfluous holes in 
the flute on the statue from the ruins of Susa (Plate 2, lig. 1), if the 
figure be accepted as archaeological ly correct. In modern instru- 
ments, as is well known, the distant holes are controlled Iw covers at 
the ends of long levers. 

The relation of the instruments of the resonator t3'pe to the hand is 
too obvious to need discussion; the objects must be of such size and 
shape as to l)e held ]\v the hand or l\v two hands while the fingers are 
manipulated, and the holes must be conveniently located and small 
enough to be closed by the tips of the lingers, or in the Chinese hiue7i 
also by the thumbs. 

It is rather surprising to see how little the thumb is used in plajnng 
upon the instruments under consideration. Although from its anatom- 
ical structure the thumb has a peculiar independence in its movements, 
3'et most of its services are rendered })y cooperation with the other fin- 
gers; and the natural training of these, as in grasping, sewing, weav- 
ing, or the most delicate savage industries, appears likewise to call for 
their cooperation, not for independent action. It is only in playing 
instruments like the lyre and harp (whose tuning depends on princi- 
ples outside the instrument, and so they do not belong to the present 
discussion) that one sees a grasping action requiring two or more fin- 
gers at once. But in the guitars, flutes, etc., under consideration, the 
thumb is constantly occupied in merely supporting the instrument, so 
an}' variation in the pitch of the sound can come only as the other fin- 
gers become independent in action. When we remember how diflicult 
it is for a civilized piano-player or typewriter to-day to acquire a sat- 
isfactory independence in movement of all the fingers, especially of 
the third and fourth, and recall that the earh' instruction-books for 
the harpsichord required the use of but two fingers on each hand, we 
shall have a higher respect for the technique of primitive musicians, 
and shall not wonder that primitive wind instruments have so few 
holes. Presumably the index finger first gained independence, and then 
it marked a long advance when two fingers could act independently of 
one another. So the four-hole flute or resonator, requiring the action 
of two fingers from each hand, and giving a scale of five tones, is a 
monument commemorating an important stage both in the development 
of the hand and in the extension of musical resources. 



436 



REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 190(). 




VI. COMPOSITE INSTRUMENTS. 

Each of the instruments thus far examined is capable of furnishing 
several notes of approximately constant pitch, but the general princi- 
ple before us may be embodied in composite instruments, where each 
note has its own vibrating body; thus 

1. Various forms of harps and dulcimers show strings of regularly 
decreasing length; here, of course, difference of tension may nullifj^ 
the scale due to the lengths. One form is shown on Plate 8. 

2. Pan's pipes are sometimes seen with regularh^ decreasing lengths; 
it is true that this regularity is not very common, but it is the only 

principle of scale building (except 
the Chinese cycle of fifths) yet recog- 
nizable in these primitive instru- 
ments. (Plate 9.) 

3. Instruments of the bar type are 
found frequently in our orchestras 
and l)ands under various names, as 
ityJophone; they are familiar in 
children's toja and are widely dis- 
tributed in savage and half -civilized 
lands under the names of 7nari7nha^ 
haJdfong^ harmonicon, etc. (Plate 
8 and fig. 8.) The law of the uni- 
form bar is that the frequencies of 
vibration of a series of bars of the 
same material are proportional to 
the quotients of the thickness divid- 
ed l)y the square of the length; the 
breadth is immaterial if it is uni- 
form. So if one takes a series of 
uniform bars of the same thickness and regularly decreasing length he 
may o})tain a series of ascending notes. Thus, let the first bar be 24 
units long (for example 24 cm.), the successive bars decreasing b}^ one 
unit; the eighth bar will be 17 units long, and the fifteenth bar 10 
units; the series of frequencies would then be as the reciprocals of the 
squares of 24, 23, etc., so giving to the ear a series of increasing inter- 
vals; with these proportions bar No. 8 would give the Octave of the 
first, but bar No. 15 would give the Twelfth of bar No. 8. The sim- 
plicity of the rule, however, frequently disappears, either because of 
variations in the thickness, as when a savage splits a bamboo stem and 
then cuts his bars so that the shorter ones are also thinner, or because 
of the attachment of lumps of wax or clay to the bars to tune them to 
some other instrument; or because of the hollowing of the center, as 
is done by modern Japanese; so at present one can not affirm that this 




Fig. 8. 
XYLOPHONES. 
After Kraus. 



HISTORY OF MUSICAL SCALES. 437 

theoretical principle of scale determination is certainly and con.scioush'^ 
embodied in any instrument anywhere; but some instruments in the 
National Museum and some drawings in books make the assumption 
seem plausible, that the primitive type of this instrument is a series of 
bars, supported at points about one-tifth or one-fourth of their lenoth 
from their ends, and decreasing- in lenoth by equal linear amounts. 

It is evident that these composite instruments are of minor impor- 
tance in this study; but in the light of the theoretical laws here 
suggested perhaps travelers mav learn something of the intention of 
a savage who cuts his Pandean pipes or bars to form a musical 
instrument. 

VII. CONCLUSIONS. 

There have now been considered all the types of instruments in 
which several notes of different pitch are produced from the same 
vibrating bod}" — whether string, column of air, or mass of air. 

(1^/.) There have been found examples from various parts of the world 
of the intentional location of the stopping points of a vibrating string at 
equal linear distances; since with all stringed instruments the finger- 
ing- will cause a slight increase of tension, the ec|uivalent length of the 
string is less than the actual length. 

(Ih.) There have been found numerous examples of wind instru- 
ments pierced with holes in one or two groups spaced at equal linear 
distances; since these holes are never sufficienth' large to allow the air 
to flow through them with perfect freedom (unless in some Chinese 
flutes) the equivalent length of the vibrating- column of air is greater 
than the actual distance from the mouthpiece to the hole. 

(2.) There have been found instruments of the Marimba type with 
bars of regularly decreasing lengths. 

(3.) There have been found many forms of instrmnents of the resona- 
tor type embodj'ing a. series of equal and similarly-located holes; in 
these, thickening the wall is equivalent acoustically to making the holes 
smaller; while locating the hole nearer the point where the vibrating 
air has its maximum change of density is equivalent to enlarging the 
hole. 

Three simple laws give to the first approximation the scales of these 
several instruments, namely: 

(1) The law of inverse lengths. 
{'2) The law of inverse squares of lengths. 

(3) The law of the square roots of a series of numbers propor- 
tional to .sums of diameters. 

The first and sec-ond laws give scales whose intervals increase as 
the pitch rises; scales based on the third law have decreasing inter- 
vals. Some results are shown in a table in the ai)pendix and graphi- 
callv in Plate 10. 



438 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

From these it is evident that whichev^er type of instrument one ma}^ 
take, there will be some intervals that verj^ closely agree with inter- 
vals of our familiar scale. In a few cases this comes about because 
our scale is prin(;ipally derived from the Greek theorists, who based 
their scales on proportional string-lengths; so, if the unit of equal 
distance on a simple guitar chances to be an aliquot part of the length 
of the string from the bridge to the nut, some of the resulting notes 
will belong to our scale. (However, the divisor nuist not have a prime 
factor greater than live.) But whatever the instrimient, on any doc- 
trine of chances, there will be some approximate coincidences; and 
these coincidences, as judged ))3"tho ear, will be found nuich closer and 
more numerous than when judged mathematically or graphically; for 
the training of modern musicians, as has often been recognized, not 
only allows but compels theiu to ignore deviations from their standard 
scale — deviations amounting sometimes to more than half a semitone. 
So one is forced to conclude that the recognition, even by a musically 
educated ear, of a series of notes as agreeing substantially with our 
diatonic scale or with any other known scale, does not afford any ade- 
quate ground for judging of the principles underlying the series; in 
fact, the failure to note the deviation may prevent the recognition of 
the underlying principle. 

The type Costa Rican four-hole whistle is the most striking example 
of a series agreeing closely with notes of our scale, yet based on an 
absolutely different principle; for the mean computed deviation from 
the piano intervals is only one-eighth of a semitone. 

Further, the whole discussion makes it evident that the people who 
made and used these instruments, or any single type of them, had not 
that idea of a scale which underlies all our thinking on the subject, 
nameh" A series either of tones or of intervals recognized as a stand- 
ard, independent of any particular instrument, but to which every 
instrument nuist conform. Modern Europeans for the sake of har- 
mony have nearl}^ ])anished all scales but one, and seldom know by what 
rules the instruments are tuned to furnish this. But for these people 
the instrument is the primary thing, and to it the rule is applied, while 
the scale is a result, or a secondary thing; and the same rule applied a 
himdred times may possibl}^ give a hundred different scales. Natur- 
ally one does not expect to find much concerted music among people 
in this stage of development. 

The various rules discussed jibove may be united in a generic one, 
namely : 

The 2)rmiary pri7iciple in the making of musical instruments that 
yield a scale is the repetition of elements similar to the eye; the size, 
number^ and location of these elements heing dependent (m the size of 
the hand and the digital expertness of the J)<'rf^''^''^^^'''' 
T\nB principle shows itself in the occasional equal spaces on the neck 



HISTORY OF MUSICAL SCALES. 439 

or tublc of a .stringed instrument, and con.spicuoiisly in the scries of 
holes on flutes and primitive oboes, while a sense of balance and sym- 
metry added to the repetition appears in the two groups of holes on the 
flutes, etc., and especially in the resonators, and appears in a different 
way in the trapezoidal forms of dulcimers. Pan's pipes, and marimbas. 
The pitch-determining- elements are therefore primarily decorative. 
In fact no one can examine any collection of primitive wind instru- 
ments, or drawings of them, without beiug struck by the way in w^hich 
the lioles often cooperate in the decoration; while they are not found 
interfering with the artistic design (see fig. 3, page 430; Plate 2, figs. 1 
and 1>; Plate 3, fig. 2). 

Simple decoration involving only repetition and symmetrical placing 
or grouping of similar parts is not only found among living primitive 
peoples everywhere that musical instruments embodying a scale can 
be found, but is prehistoric. The prehistoric flutes are believed to 
come from the neolithic age, and the potter}^ from this age shows a 
nuiltitude of geometrical designs, some of which are collected in Wil- 
son's Plates 19 and 20. The paleolithic age has furnished few geomet- 
rical designs and no flutes or many-holed resonators. In applying such 
decoration to the hollow bones of animals or human enemies, to the hol- 
low reeds that Lucretius says whistle in the wind, or to gourds and sim- 
ple pottery, nothing can be more natural than sometimes to perforate 
the W' alls and to get a several-toned musical instrument as the result. So 
although no conclusions regarding the mental operations of prehistoric 
man can be absolutely certain, one feels a strong conviction that, as 
with immature minds among us, art appealed first to the eye and later 
to the ear; that beautv of material form incidentalh" furnished series 
of sounds that could be repeated, and could give to the ear and the 
mind the idea of the definite leaps or steps that Aristoxenus. countless 
ages afterward, called the characteristic of music. (Of course rhvthm 
in movement and in sound, are independent of the structure of an 
instrument.) Any influence that may have been exerted on the estab- 
lishment of scales by the songs of l>irds, b}^ the recognition of over- 
tones in the sounds of the human voice, or by the production of har- 
monics on the horn must have been limited and trivial. The principle 
here presented is at any rate a vera- caimi^ and explains facts hitherto 
unexplained; further, (1) it is extremely simple both in theory and 
practice; (2) it is flexible, allowing of multifarious results in prac- 
tice; (3) it is suggested by prehistoric instruments, supported by the 
instruiuents of man}^ living primitive peoples and repeated!}^ con- 
firmed by its survival in several instruments of peoples in an advanced 
stage of musical culture. 

It onl}- remains to add, in order to prevent misunderstanding, that 
the principle here set forth never appears as the dominating one among 
peoples who are known to have had a theory of the scale. The Greek 



440 REPOBT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

theoretical scales, diatonic and nondiatonic, are doubtless its direct 
descendants, though at present it is not known what the influence was 
that so transformed them and made them depend on ratios, not on dif- 
ference of lengths. Possibly the theory of numbers bewitched musi- 
cians thois as it has sometimes since, though the converse speculation 
is a plausible one — that the recognized musical ratios gave a mj^stical 
meaning to numbers. It is curious to note that Aristoxenus had some- 
how got far enough to compUin that flutes distort most of the inter- 
vals (p. 42, Mb.), and if his lost treatise on boring flutes should be 
found it might throw light on this history. The Arab ''stepbj^step" 
method is apparently a late descendant of the equal linear divisions, 
appearing after men had learned to recognize the equalitj' of intervals 
as well as of spaces. But the Chinese cjxle of fifths must be explained 
and determined on entirely different physical principles, and the vari- 
ous European scales as defined bv theorists or rendered In' the best 
violinists or fixed by good tuners, when properly examined, reveal 
elements as diverse as the elements of our language or our population. 
The principle in question is therefore presented only as the simplest, 
earliest, and most primitive principle of scale-building. 



HISTORY OF MUSICAL SCALES. 441 



APPENDIX. 



The laws briefly stated on pajie 487 for the neveral kinds of instnnncnts discussed 
in the paper may be expressed more accurately by the following formuke: 

Let N = number of complete vibrations per second. 
I = length of string or column of air or bar. 

(I = diameter of mouth-hole of resonator, corrected for tliickness of wall. 
^ 1) = diameter of finger-holes of resonator, corrected for thickness of wall. 
;( = number of tinger-holes opened on resonator. 
f =z thickness of bar. , 

K = constant, depending on material and units of measurement. 
Assuming centimeter-gram-second units and ordinary temperatures, 

K' = s/Xension in dynes -^- mass in grams per cm. = velocity ; e. g., in piano 

strings 17,000 to 40,000 cm. -sec; in violin strings from lo,000 for the 

covered string to 4.3,000 for the gut E-string; in weak primitive insti-u- 

ments probably much less. 

K" = 34,000 cm. -sec, the velocity of sound in air. 

K'" = 520,000 cm.-sec for iron bars; 340,000 to 520,000 for wood bars supported 

as usual in a xylophone. 
K"' = 5,500. 

Then, corresponding with the brief laws, 



K^ 1 



(In) For strings: N =—- = ——^ v^tension -:- linear density- 

, K" 17,000 
(lb) For columns of air: ^ = WT= — /4^" 



(2) For bars: N = K'" ~= 340,000 to 520,000 4 



(3) For resonators: N = K' 



\^a + sum ol b _ 5,500 



\/ volume \/volume 



V<'+-0- 



These constants are sufficiently accurate for the general purposes of the anthro- 
pologi«t and musician. But the results should be expressed in musical terms. The 
French standard pitch, now adopted by the Piano Makers' Association, gives 
A = 435 d. v., or C = 258.7 d. v., and the ratio for any interval of j) piano semitones 
is 2r!!. In most cases it is much more convenient to have intervals than ratios; and 
incomparal)ly the most convenient unit of intervals is the piano semitone, of which 
12 by definition make an octave; these can readily be grouped by anyone with slight 
musical knowledge into larger intervals. Thirds, etc., and the musical value of any 
whole number of them can instantly be found on a well-tuned piano. 

Since the reduction of ratios to intervals can not ordinarily be done without 
logarithms, a short table has been calculated and is appended by the use of which 
the reduction may be done by inspection in most practical cases. This table gives 
the logarithm of every whole numl)er from 1 to 40, and the product of these by 40, 
less one three-hundredth, together with the successive differences; these are in 
semitones; for the factor is so chosen that when the logarithm of the ratio 2:1 is 
multiplied by it the product will l)e 12, which is the number of semitones corre- 
spon<ling to the ratio of the octave. Much more elaborate tables, but without the 
column of differences, have been published by Prony and l)y Ellis. In using the 
table it is well to remember that the average uncertainty in pitch of public per- 
formers in Berlin was found to be about one-tenth of a semitone. 

NAT MUS 1900 31 



442 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



As illustrations of the use of the table, find the successive intervals of the scale of 
the Hindu Sitar, the string being stopped successively at 36, 35, 34, . . 27; the corre- 
sponding differences in column 4 of the table are 0.49, .50, .52, . . . .63 E. S., the 
sum being 4.98 E. S., as required by Tagore's rule (j). 425 above). To complete the 
octave, the space 27 to 18 is to be divided into 13 equal parts; substitute for the ratio 
27:18, or 3:2, 39:26, and use the table again; the differences are now 0.45, .46, . . . 
.65, the sum being 7.02 E. S., which added to 4.98 gives 12 E. S., or the octave. 

If the law be that of the square roots, as with resonators, the table is to be used in 
precisely the same way, but the final results are to be divided by 2; for example, in 
the type resonator, calling the equivalent radius of the mouth hole 1.0, that of the 
finger holes is 0.6 (more accurately, 0.<)2); the series of terms will therefore be 1.0, 
1.6, 2.2, 2.8, 3.4; multiply all by 10, and take the corresponding numl)ers from column 
3 of the table; divide the differences by 2, and add the quotients to the fundamental 
pitch. The results are as follows: 

E. S. 

10 39.86 F 

16 48.00 8.14 4.07 A + -07 E. S. 

22 53.51 13.65 6.83 - .17. 

28 57.69 17.83 8.92 D - .08. 

34 61.05 21.19 10.60 E - .40. 

If 0.62 had been taken the results would have been slightly higher in pitch. 

Plate 10 has been plotted to give directly the intervals of resonator scales for any 
number of open holes up to 5, and for ratios of radii between and 1. The dotted 
line corresponds to the type resonator. 

The table may also be used for bars; the only change is that the differences are to 
be doubled instead of halved. Thus, with a series of uniform bars whose lengths are 
24, 23, etc., to 17, the compass will be 2 X (.55.02 — 49.05) = 11.94 E. S., which is 
practically an octave, as stated on page 436. 

Table for computing musical intcrrdls. 



N. 



1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
If. 
17 
18 

ly 

20 



Log. N. 

0.0000 
.3010 


E. S. 


Dif. 






12.00 


12.00 


.4771 


19.02 


7.02 


.0021 


24.00 


4.98 


.6990 


27.86 


3.86 


. 7782 


31.02 


3.16 


.8451 


33.69 


2.67 


.9031 


36.00 


2.31 


.9542 


38.04 


2.04 


1.0000 


39.83 


1.82 


.0414 


41.51 


1.65 


.0792 


43.02 


1.51 


.1139 


44.41 


1.39 


.1461 


45.69 


1.28 


.1761 


46.88 


1.19 


.2041 


48.00 


1.12 


.2304 


49.05 


1.05 


.2553 


50.04 


0.99 


. 27S.S 


50.98 


0.94 


.3010 


.51. Ni 


0.88 i 



N. 



21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29 
30 
31 
32 
33 
34 
35 
36 
37 
38 
39 
40 



Log.N. E. S. 



.3222 


52.70 


0.84 


.3424 


53.51 


.81 


.3617 


54.28 


.77 


.3802 


55.02 


.74 


.3979 


55.73 


.71 


.4150 


56.41 


.68 


.4314 


57.06 


.65 


.4472 


57.69 


.63 


. 4624 


58.30 


.61 


.4771 


58.88 


.58 


.4914 


59.45 


.57 


.5051 


60.00 


..55 


.5185 


60.53 


.53 


.5315 


61.05 


.52 


.5441 


61. 65 


.50 


.5563 


62.04 


.49 


.5682 


62. 52 


.48 


.5798 


62. 98 


.46 


.5911 


63.43 


.45 


.6021 


63. 86 


.43 



Dif. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 1. 

STRINGED INSTRUMENTS. 

Fig. 1. Small Turkish Tamboura. 

(Cat. No. 95312, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 2. Medium Colascioni (Italian). 

(Cat. No. 95307, U. S. N. M.) 

Note. — The scale shown on this and most of the following plates is 20 centimeters 
long. 

444 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Wead. 



Plate 1, 




Stringed Instruments. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 2. 

FLUTES WITH EQUAL-SPACED HOLES, TYPE A. 

Fig. 1. Pipe from Susa. Engel, Music of the Most Ancient Nations, p. 77. 

Fig. 2. Bone Flute, about 6 inches long, disinterred at Truxillo, Peru. British 

Museum. Engel, Musical Instruments, p. 64. 
Figs. 3, 4. Aztec Pipes, called by Mexicans pito; usual form; scale, a, b, c#, e, f#. 

Engel, Musical Instruments, p. 62. 
Fig. 5. Aztec Pipe; unusual form. Engel, Musical Instruments, p. 62. 

446 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Wead. 



Plate 2. 







Flutes with equal-spaced Holes. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 3. 

FLUTES WITH EQUAL-SPACED HOLES, TYPE A. 

Fig. 1. Double Flageolet. Mexico. 

• (Cat. No. 197173, U. S. N. M. Report 1S96, fig. 2ri0b.) 

Fig. 2. Aztec Flageolet (pUv). Mexico. 

(Cat. No. 172819, U. S. N. M. Report 1896, fig. 2.'32.) 

Fig. ;>. Stone Flageolet. Mexico. 

(Cat. No. 98948, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 4. Bone Flageolet. Costa Rica. 

(Cat. No. 18108, U. S. N. M. Report 189C, fig. 273.) 

Fig. 5. Bone Flageolet. Amazon. 

(Cat. No. 5719, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 6. Bamboo Whistle. Thibet. 

(Cat. No. 16716.5a, U. S. N. M. Report 1896, plate 69.) 

Fig. 7. Bamboo Whistle. Thibet. 

(Cat. No. 167165b, U. S. N. M. Report 1896, plate 69.) 

Fig. 8. Shepherd's Pipe, with keed. Arabia. 
(Cat. No. 93555, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 9. Horn [Soittotorvi) . Finland. 
(Cat. No. 95686, U. S. N. M.) 

448 



Report of U. S. National Museum, l&OO.— Wead. 



Plate 3. 




Flutes with equal-spaced Holes. 



I 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 4. 

FLUTES WITH EQUAL-SPACED HOLES, TYPE A. 

Fi^. 1. Direct Flute. Peru. 

(Cat. No. 95904, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 2. Flute or Flageolet. Kiowa Indians. 

(Cat. No. 153584, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. .S. F^ute or Flageolet. Mohave Indians. 

(Cat. No. 107535, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 4. Flute or Flageolet. Dakota Indians. 
(Cat. No. 23724, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 5. Transverse Flute (Ti-tzu). China. 
(Cat. No. 130446, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 6. Transverse Flute {Koma Fuye). Japan. 
(Cat. No. 93205, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 7. Oboe {Pee C'hawar). Siam. 
(Cat. No. 27313, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 8. Flageolet {Sopilka). Little Russia. 
(Cat. No. 96406, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 9. Double Flageolet. Thil)et. 

(Cat. No. 95810, U. S. N. M.) 

450 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Wead. 



Plate 4. 




Flutes with equal-spaced Holes. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 5. 

FLUTES WITH HOLES IN TWO GROUPS, TYPE B. 

FroinPrsetorius's Syntagma Musicum of 1618, to show tinger-holes grouped in two sets. 
452 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Wead. 



Plate 5. 







Flutes with Holes in Two Groups. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 6. 

FLUTES WITH HOLES IN TWO GROUPS, TYPE B. 



Fig. 1. Flageolet {Souling). Java. 
(Cat. No. 95669, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 2. Direct Flute. Ceylon. 

(Cat. No. 95727, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 3. Direct Flute (Manjairah). Syria. 
(Cat. No. 95150, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 4. German D Flute. New York. 

(Cat. No. 55624, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 5. Flageolet {Soiding). Java. 
(Cat. No. 95666, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 6. Transverse Flute {Murali). Bengal. 
(Cat. No. 92707, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 7. Transverse Flute. Manila. 
(Cat. No. 95061, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 8. Transverse Flute. Manila. 

(Cat. No. 95060, U. S. N. M.) 

454 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Wead. 



Plate 6. 





'^V^^^^^l 




^^^^^^^^^H^^H 








^^^^^^H 






^ 






B 


^^■il 




\ 






' 


wK^ 


















oB^m 


. 


















^B^mt 










^^ 








- 




^ ' 


wm 


i 




^^H« 




• 












r '" 


HI 


-J 


1 
1 




















Klj 


i 












m 












HkMJ 




• 
1' 








H^ ' 






'i 


_ 1 








: m*' 










'■ 




• 


^^^H* 








^^K* 










>BK 




• 








HH 


hH 










'H 




• 








HE 


pK 










;H 




• 








^^lE 


"l^B 










^H|B 






^^^H« ^^^1 




- ^^H 


..9w 










'H| 






^^^B* 


^H 




1^1 


"mW 


^^^■i 








JB 




' 




I 


- 


;: .J 


'/^K* 












r 




1 




r-. 


i 1 










1 


^^■^1 


J 


y 






1 




r 

m 





Flutes with Holes in Two Groups. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 7. 

CENTRAL AMERICAN RESONATORS OR WHISTLES. 

Fig. 1. Costa Rica. 

(Report U. S. Nat. Mus., 1896, p. til7. Scale; f, a, c, d, e. Cat. No. 59970, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 2. Costa Rica. 

(Report U.S. Nat. Mus., 1896, fig. '263. Scale: d,e, f#,g,a. Cat. No. 59%9, U.S.N. M.) 

Fig. 3. Costa Rica. 

(Report U.S. Nat. Mus., 1896, fig. 262. Scale: gf ,bl',b, c,dl',d,eb,e, f. Cat. No. 28952, U. S. 

N.M.) 

Fig. 4. Costa Rica. 

(Report U.S. Nat. Mua., 1896, fig. 269. Scale: f,g,a,bb,c. Cat. No. 28956, U.S. N.M.) 

Fig. 5. Costa Rica. 

(Report U.S. Nat. Mus., 1896, p. 617. Scale: db,f,gl>,ab,bb. Cat. No. 60045, U.S. N.M.) 

Fig. 6. Panama, Chiriqui. 

(Report U. S. Nat. Mus., 1896, figs. 304-5. Holmes, Report Bureau Ethnol., 1884-5, figs. 
245-246. Scale: end closed, f, g, ab, bb; open, f#, g#, a#, b. Cat. No. 109682, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 7. Costa Ric.\. 

(Report U.S. Nat. Mus., 1896, p. 614. Scale: gb,bk>,cb,dl>,eb. Cat. No. 28954, U.S. N.M.) 

Fig. 8. Costa Rica. 

(Report U.S. Nat. Mus., 1896, fig. 270. Scale: ab, bb, b,c,db,d,eb. Cat. No. 6423, U. S.N. M.) 
456 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Wead. 



Plate 7. 





1 




■ 


HPI^^I 




1 




^1 


^^^HPf «• ( HI M^^^^^^^^^^^^^^l 




1 




^ 


^^^^K^' i ^^Br /i2t<^^^^^^^^^^^^H 




1 


^^^j[HI 








1 






ll 




1 




^IH 






] 


^^^^^Hp^^ 


1 






m 




1 


^^^^^^■^ 


1 


^^^^^j^^l 


^^^^^1 w^ 


1 




• 






i 


m^^H 


y 






^^^^^^^^^^^^B 



Central American Resonators, or Whistles. 



I 



NAT :\ns iJtOO 82 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 8. 

COMPOSITE INSTRUMENTS. 

Fit'. 1. Pan's Pipes. Cairo, Egypt. 

(Cat. No. 94053, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 2. Kantele. Finland. 

(Cat. No. 95691, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 3. MuKKiN. Japan. Two bars turned edgewise to show their form. 
(Cat. No. OCmi, U. S. N. M.) 

The paper scale is 20 centimeters long. 
458 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Wead. 



Plate 8. 




Composite Instruments. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 9. 

pan's pipes. 

Fiij. 1. Pan's Pipes (»SW/a/?r). Egypt. 
(Cat. No. 94653, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 2. Pan's Pipes. Fiji Archipelago. 

(Report U. S. Nat. Mus., 1896, p. 559; Cat. No. 23942, U. S. N. M.) 

Fig. 8. Pan's Pipes {Huayra Puhura). Peru, from an ancient grave. 

(Cat. No. 136869, U. S. N. M.) 

460 



Report of U. S, National Museum, 1900.— Wead. 



Plate 9, 




PAN'S Pipes. 



r 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 10. 

SCALES GIVEN BY RESONATORS. 

The construction of this chart has been explained in the appendix. To use it, find 
in the base Hne the number which expresses the radius of the finger holes, that 
of the mouth hole being considered 1.0, and erect a perpendicular therefrom; 
the heights of the points of intersection with the successive curves, measured on 
the left-hand scale, give the pitch of the successive notes produced as the holes 
1, 2, 3, etc., are opened, expressed in equally tempered semitones, E. S. The 
dotted line corresponds to tlie position on the chart of the type resonator. The 
chart shows clearly how the successive intervals become smaller as the number of 
open holes increases, and how the total compass is small if the finger holes are 
relatively small. 

Use may be made of the chart for many ready calculations of intervals other than 
those due to equal differences, and by doubling the readings in E. S. the result 
may be applied to string ratios; e. g., find the interval corresi:)onding to the ratio 
5 : 4, or 1+0.25; the chart gives directly 1.9; the double of which is 3.8 E. S. The 
table in the appendix gives more accurately 3.86 E. S., showing that the just 
Third is 0.14 E. S. flatter than the piano Third. 

462 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Wead. 



Plate 10. 

















ty 


y 


J/ 
















/ 
















/ 


/ 


/ 




K 










/ 


/ 


1 




/ 












/ 

/ 


/ 




/ 




^ 












/ 


A 


y 




^"^ 










/ 




















/ 


/ 


/| 












// 




/ 










^ 




/ / 




/ 














/ 


// 


/ 




^ 


-^ 










// 


// 


/ 

/I 




y 












11// 


/ 


















V 


/ 



















0.0 



OJi 



O^ Tobd- 0.6 

Scales given by Resonators. 



0.6 



7.0 



i 



A COLLECTION OF HOPI CEREMONIAL PIGMENTS. 



AVALTER HOUGH, 

Assistant Curator, Division of Ethnology. 



4(w 



A COLLECTION OF HOPI CEREMONIAL PIGMENTS. 



By Walter Hough, 
Assistant Curator, Division of Ethnology. 



Some years ago Mr. A. M. Stephen made for Dr. Washington 
Matthews, U. S. A., a collection of Hopi Indian ceremonial pigments, 
with notes on their preparation, derivation, and uses. These valuable 
notes from that most excellent observer were brought together by Dr. 
Matthews and presented to the International Folk-Lore Congress held 
at Chicago in 1893, and later were published under Mr. Stephen's 
name in the report of the congress, which appeared in 1898.^ 

Through the liberality of Dr. Matthews, the series of paints, com- 
prising al)out twenty-tive specimens, is now in the national collection. 
Determinations of the paints have been made by Mr. Wirt Tassin, 
assistant curator of the division of minerals. With the addition of 
the pigments secured from the Hopi, many y^ars ago, by Maj. J. W. 
Powell and James Stevenson, together with those gathered among the 
Navajo by Dr. Matthews, this unique collection becomes of great 
importance and interest. 

The Hopi are assiduous collectors. A catalogue of the substances 
brought to their pueblos from long distances would awaken surprise, 
and the diverse materials gleaned from a region so unpromising in 
appearance would increase the wonder. Every house is a museum of 
the environment, with specimens from the mineral, animal, and vegetal 
kingdoms, and every Hopi is a repository of knowledge as to the 
places where materials may be secured. Time and distance are little 
thought of when it comes to procuring the materials desired. For this 
reason the pigments and dyes, when compared with those employed by 
other American Indian tribes, are remarkable for their number as 
well as for the diversity of their origin. The colors range over the 
whole spectrum and furnish a number of shades and tints, as anj'one 
may observe on looking through the large collections of Hopi objects 

'The International Folk-Lore Congress of the World's Columbian Exposition, 
Chicago, July, 1893. Archives International Folk-Lore Association, I, pp. 200-265. 
Chicago, 1898. 

465 



466 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

in the United States National Museum, the Field Columbian Museum, 
and the Feabody Museum. 

The region where the Hopi live is remarkable for its natural col- 
ors, which are displayed in marvelous profusion and brilliancy in the 
bad lands, known as the Painted Desert. The love of color might 
well arise from the tints of the native corn, on which the Hopi prin- 
cipally depend for nourishment. This corn presents a variety of beau- 
tiful colors, sufficient to represent the six regions, and for this purpose 
it is used in the ceremonies. The same observation applies to the 
multifarious varieties of Hopi beans. 

The Hopi apparently do not discriminate indigo, blue, and green; 
at least, the}' do not have separate words to describe these colors. 
Violet is classed with the red; orange is not differentiated from yellow 
or red. Thus, as has been observed among primitive peoples, the Hopi 
recognize the primary colors and have given them names. Probably 
primitive man could see onl}- the })rimar3'' colors, a reasonable 
hypothesis from the survival of these terms, but in the present cul- 
ture stage of the Hopi it must not be inferred that the}' lack practical 
knowledge of all the spectrum colors. 

Abstract terms belong far above the Hopi plane of culture, hence 
it is found that the term for a color denotes some object having the 
color. Frequently the name of a pigment refers to the place of its 
origin or to the use to which it is to be put, or, if a compound, to the 
principal constituent. 

While the Hopi appreciate color, their applications of it are crude 
and inartistic, the tendency being to barbaric gaudiness. It may be 
noted that in the Hopi dwellings almost no colors are applied for 
decoration, the band of red ocher sometimes painted on the walls of a 
room near the floor being a modern innovation. One remarks also 
that the Hopi costume is plain, the weaver producing only stuffs of 
white, dark blue, or brown, without patterns, except in belts and hair 
tapes, and in garments of a ceremonial character. The leather for 
moccasins may be dyed according to individual fancy, and in the bril- 
liant shoulder scarfs of cotton print a riot of color is allowable, but 
the costume without these recent additions is sober and relieved only 
by ornaments of shell and turquoise. 

Of articles in common use pottery shows two colors, a red and a dark 
brown, and baskets present several colors. These articles, however, 
are ceremonial in decoration and to a large extent as to use, and' as 
they are })uried with the dead it would seem that the symbolic orna- 
mentation has some deeper meaning than that of mere ornament. 

The use of pigments among the Hopi is then confined to that large 
element in Hopi life, ceremony, and colors are displayed in profusion 
on the paraphernalia of their complex religion. 

The Hopi apply color with meaning, if not with art, and these 



HOri CEllEMONIAL TIGMENTS. 4(>7 

nieanlno-s are many. The colors onibloinatic of the regions coiistantl}^ 
occur ill Hopi paintino- iind present an interesting' phase of their 
beliefs as set forth by Mr. Stephen. 

The Hopi orientation l)ears no relation to nortli and sonth, but to the points on his 
liori/A)n whii'ii mark the places of ^junrise and sunset at the summer and winter 
solstices. He invariably l)egins his ceremonial circuit l)y pointing (1) to the place 
of sunset at summer solstice, then to (2) the place of sunset at winter solstice, then 
to (3) the sunrise at winter solstice, and (4) the summer solstice, next to (5) theabove, 
and (6) the below. 

The names of these directions and their eml)leniatic colors are as follows: 

1. Kwi-ni-wi; yellow, because the anthropomorphic deity who sits there is yellow, 
wearing a yellow cloud as a mask which covers his head and rests ujion his shoul- 
ders; a multitude of yellow butterflies constantly flutter liefore the cloud, and yellow 
corn grows continually in that yellow land. 

Similar i)henomena are manifest at all the other directions, only of diffei-ent colors, 
thus: 

2. Te-vyiin-a, Blue. 

3. Td-tyiik-a, Red. 

4. Ho-po-ko, White. 

5. Omi, Black. 

6. At-kya-mi, all colors, and here sits the deity regarded as the maker of all life 
germs. He sits ujion a flowery mound on which grows all vegetation; he is si)eckled 
with all the colors, as also is his cloud mask, and before it flutter all the butterflies 
and all the sacred birds. ^ 

The prayer offering-.s called Paho, of most of the ceremoni(\s, are 
painted green, the color of vegetation, a frequent Hopi supplication 
being- for abundant crops. One set of the Pahos of the Ninian Katcina 
ceremony are painted yellow, and are said to be a supplication for 
flowers. Red is the color of the warrior, who also ru])S his face with 
powdered charcoal and sprinkles it with micaceous iron ore, when he 
desires to represent the Twin AVar-Gods. 

The different ceremonies have prescribed uses of certain colors in 
costume, paraphernalia, and bodily decoration of the priests, and the 
"dolls" and other representations of the beings of the spirit world 
are painted in traditional colors.' 

In passing, attention may be called to the ceremonial sand painting 
of the Hopi and Navajo, where the most beautiful effects ar(> secured 
by allowing sand in slender streams of different colors to fall from the 
hand guiding it over the surface to form designs. The blending of 
the colored sands is soft and harmonious, and the result is a sand 
mosaic.'' 

With the poor tools and appliances in their reach the skill the 



'A. .M. Stephen, Pigments in Ceremonials of the Hopi, International Folk-Lore 
Congress, I, p. 261. 

'■^Washington Matthews, The ^fountain Chant, Fifth Annual Report of the Bureau 
of Ethology, p. 445. 

* James Stevenson, Xavajo Ceremonial of Hasjelti Dailjis, Eighth Annual Report 
of the Bureau of the Ethnology, p. 2fi0. 



468 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Hopi di^ipla}' in applying pigments is reniai'ka))le. This art is alto- 
gether the provinec of the men, on whom the preparation of the elab- 
orate paraphernalia falls. The aecuracy of the drawing and, in many 
cases, the quality of the lines, are worthy of praise, and seem beyond 
the simple brush made of a narrow strip of yucca leaf. In fact, the 
skill displayed is little less than that observed in the Mexican codices, 
as the set of drawings of Hopi Katcinas prepared by a native for Dr, 
J. Walter Fewkes amply evidences. 

The purity of the natural colors laid on by the Hopi artists gives 
their work a character like that of Egyptian paintings. It will be seen 
by examination that colors are laid on in mass usually to define forms 
and that the background is not intended to enter into the design. It 
is important to bear this in mind in the study of Hopi symbolism. 

While some colors are applied dry and rubbed in as on feathers and 
the tanned leather of moccasins in the manner of the Plains tribes, the 
customary method is to use as a medium water or the fatty substance 
of squash, melon, pinon, or other seeds. The latter medium is procured 
by chewing the seeds and mixing the saliva with the paint. In a few 
cases the albumen from the eggs of the eagle is used as a medium. 
With these mediums the colors have little permanence, and the refur- 
bishing of paraphernalia is usually required for each ceremony. 

The Hopi artist applies his colors with a yucca brush or with the 
hand. The green paint, made by heating together pifion gum and 
powdered carbonate of copper, says Mr. Stephen, is rubbed down on 
a paint muUer moistened with saliva charged with chewed squash seeds, 
then transferred to the mouth b}^ means of a corn husk, and spurted over 
the surface of a mask. 

Paint mortars of stone, sometimes a slightly concave stone and 
sometimes an elaboratelv worked-out utensil of good shape, are found 
in use among the Hopi. Paint vessels of pottery are found, though 
the}" are not so common as at Zuni. Some of the massive paint mate- 
rials are used as a nuiller on the slab, the paint being ground from the 
muUer as needed, like India ink. Other paints are pulverized and 
washed with water, and some of the materials are soft enough to be 
used in the natural state or need very little manipulation. 

Face paint, generally red, is carried in bits of skin pursed to form 
a ))ag. Face painting, except in ceremonies, is unconunon among the 
Ho[)i, and never employed at the East Mesa. At the Middle Mesa 
and Oraibi the practice is sometimes observed. Commonh^ one notices 
persons having patches of kaolin daubed on the skin, but no reason 
has been given for this custom. 

From the processes described by Mr. Stephen in the following cata- 
logue it will be seen that the Hopi exercise considerable skill in the 
preparation of a number of their colors, especially those of organic 
substances. In one case pinon gum is employed, as a medium like var- 



HOPI CEREMONIAL PIGMENTS. 469 

nisb, and in two cases lakes are produced by complicated processes 
involving the use of alum. The Hopi also know the value of alum as 
a mordant, this substance being derived from an impure alum-bearing 
clay. 

CATALOGUE. 

1. Ca kwa'pi ki, "green bread'' (artiticial), 175682. 
Ca kwa'pi ki is thus made: 

Abtmt ten ounces of pifion gum is put in an earthern pot and set on the fire, a 
very little water being poured in to keep it from burning and it is then allowed to 
roast. A large basin is set conveniently with about a gallon of water in it, and over 
this basin a yucca sieve is laid, and in the sieve a quantity of horse hair, or shredded 
jaicca fiber. After the gum has melted and boiled for about ten minutes it is poured 
upon the hair lying in the sieve and allowed to strain through into the water, where 
it accumulates in a white mass. The operator then puts about three ounces of frag- 
ments of blue and green copper carljonate into a small muller and rubs tiieni into 
a pulp, then pours a little water in the muller and rubs the pulp into a liquid. He then 
turns to the gum, which is stiff but still pliable, and after kneading and stretching it 
back and forth, doubling and twisting and pulling, it becomes soft and of glistening 
whiteness. After manipulating the gum for a])out a quarter of an hour, he folds it 
up compactly, dips it lightly in the blue-pulp liquid, and puts it back in the roasting 
pot, which has been filled with water, and sets it on the fire to boil. As the water 
heats, the gum melts, and just before it comes to a boil he pours in all the blue-pulp 
liquid, then, as the mixture boils he maintains a constant stirring with a long rod. 
He dips up some of the mass from time to time on the rod to examine its color, and 
the longer it boils the darker it grows, and after a1)out twenty minutes he takes the jar 
off the fire, pours off the hot water and pours in some cold. He then takes the blue- 
green mass out, and works it around in his hands, forming a cake of about eight 
ounces. ^ 

2. Kii tcatc'ka, "white claj^," clay; Navajo hlej, or glee. 175683. 
This clay, which is valued by Hopi potters, is in general use as a cere- 
monial paint for the bod}-. 

3. Ko ho ni ni cli' ta. 175681. Probabl}^ hematite ground and 
worked up with water. The Hopi obtain this pigment from the Koho- 
nini countrv in Cataract Canyon, 110 miles west of the reservation. 
The color is sj'^mbolic of the northwest region. Its use is most marked 
in the paraphernalia of the Snake Society. 

1. Ciip na la. Si bibse, berries of sumac {MJiK.^ frilohata). Artificial. 

Clip' na la — red paint, made as follows: 

Three ears of dark purple corn are shelled and the kernels put in an earthen pot, 
in which are about three pints of water, and the pot is set on the fire to boil. About 
a quart of dried sumac berries are put in a basin, over which a yucca sieve is laid. 
The corn having boiled alwut three-quarters of an hour, the pot is taken from the 
fire and its contents poured upon the sieve, through which the purple-stained boil- 
ing water is strained upon the sumac berries. Some of the talc-like substance, called 
l)otato-clay [Tumin chuoka] is then produced, and the operator puts a piece about 
the size of a walnut in his mouth, chewing it a little to soften it. The berries and 
hot Avater having now cooled sutHciently, he spits out the clay into his hands which 



^A. M. Stephen, Pigments in Ceremonials of the Hopi, p. 263. 



470 KEf'ORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

art' (li|(iK'(l ainonj» tilt' lu-rrit's, aiul tlitise and the clay he rubs thorDUj^lily between 
his haiuls in the water. He eontiuues chewing bits of flay and spitting them among 
the l)erries, rubbing and squeezing them until by repeated tests upon the skin he 
obtains the desired tint, which is usually a hue of lake. The mixture is now ready 
for use, or it may lu- ilried and used at a future time by again moistening with water*' 

5. Yii hi' ha. 175()86. Hematite, with chiy. Face paint, in cere- 
monies. This is the sacred paint of the warrior fraternity. It is often 
found Imried with the dead in the ancient ruins. 

6. Pa I'a'tc ka. Red ocherous, earthy, hematite. 175687. 

7. () wa'iv ta la' si, " stone pollen." 175688. Yellow clay, resembling 
in color the pollen used in ceremonies. Dr. Fewkes has stated that 
the word for pollen, ta la si, means flower of the sun, symholizino- the 
belief that the light of the sun is sprinkled on the earth, fructifying- it 
as with pollen. 

8. til mi'n tcii"ka, clay. 175689. 

The name means sand}'^ clay. It is collected under the mesas. 

9. Ca' kwa, "green." Copper carbotrate, composed of malachite 
and azurite. 175690. The Hopi collect this paint 110 miles west of 
the reservation in Cataract Canyon. It is used for painting Pahos, 
masks, rtgurines, etc. Frequently found in graves in the ancient 
ruins. 

10. 8i tula. Glaul)cr salt (mirabilite). 175691. 

The name means "salt flower." Its use has not been ascertained. 

11. Sikya' pi ki, "yellow l)read." 175692. 

Sikyapiki, " brig-ht 3^ellow paint," is thus prepared ])y some old, 
expert priest. 

A small lire is made at any convenient court nook, or on the roof of a house, and two 
or three flat stones set on edge around it support an earthen pot of about two gallons 
capacity, and aljout half a gallon of water is poured into it. The expert then puts 
in a])out two ounces of Si-iifia, an impure almogen [alunogen?], rubbing it to a powder 
between his fingers, and in the same way adds about the same quantity of ti'i-wak-ta, a 
very fine, white, calcareous sandstone. He stirs frequently with a gourd ladle, and as 
the mixture l)oils it foams violently, and having subsided, some more of the two sub- 
stances is adtled, and then as mut-h of the dried flowers of the Bigelooia gnurolens as 
can be crowded into the vessel, antl then enough water to fill it. The contents are 
allowed to boil for aV)out half an hour, during which they are stirred as much as pos- 
sible. A yucca sieve is placed over a large basin and the contents of the pot strained 
through it, the flowers being squeezed dry and thrown away, and there is thus 
obtained about two (]uarts of a dull, yellow liquid. The process just described is 
rei)eated and the infusion is poured back into tlie pot, and as it again comes to a boil 
more of the earthy ingredients are addtnl in small quantities from time to time. 

The tint of the licjuid is tested on the skin occasionally; should it prove too pale, 
another vessel is jait on the fire and another infusion obtained by the prottess first 
described, enough of which is added to the liquid in the first pot to bring it to the 
desired tint. Should the liquid be too dark, more of the mineral substances and water 
are added. The process occupies about four hours and the mi.vture has then boiled 
away to about a jiint, of a bright yellow color and pasty consistency, which on drying 
forms a hard cake. ' 



■A. M. Stephen, rigments in Ceremonials of the Hopi, p. 263. '■'Idem, p. 2(52. 



HOl'T CEREMONIAL PIGMENTS. 471 

12. Katci'iui sikyatc' ka, '"Katcinu yellow clu}-."' Ferruginous clay. 
No organic matter, and therefore not an artificial compound. Proba- 
bly g-round with water. Of dull yellow color; used for personal 
adornment. 175693. 

13. Wi' va vi. Arenaceous clay colored Avith carbonate of copper. 

17561)1:. 

The paint is made by pulverizing a dull green sandstone. Mixed 
with water for use. 

14. Kwu" map o' wa, lignite. 175695. 

Black is imule from lignite coal, charcoal, soot, and corn smut. Used for different 
occasions. • 

15. Tu wa'k ta. Carbonate of lime groiuid and mixed with clay, 
175696. 

16. Lii ku tak ti pu. Highly bituminous coal. Navajo, Pas jini. 
175697. 

Ground and used as black paint. 

17. Sik3"a' to ho, " yellow stone." Ferruginous clay. 175698. 

18. Til' ma, '*sand." White, tine-grained argillaceous sandstone. 
175699. 

The paint is made b}' crushing fine white sand rock. 

19. Sik\'a'' to ho, "yellow stone." Ferruginous clay. 175700. 

20. Tea kap ta, sikya tc' ka. Ferruginous clay. 175701. 
The name refers to a claj' for making potter}'. 

21. Red paint. Red ocherous hematite. Navajo Indians. 175678. 

22. Green paint. Carbonate of copper (malachite). Navajo Indians. 
175681. 

23. White paint. Glee. Arenaceous cla3^ Navajo Indians. 175680. 

24. Black paint. A compound used only for painting sacred Kethawn 
Pahos, or plumed sticks. 175677. 

The details of its origin or manufacture are not known. It consists 
of clay rich in oxides of manganese and iron with some organic mat- 
ter. Dr. Matthews understood that the substance was found in the 
ground in this condition. Navajo Indians. 

25. Yellow paint. Ferruginous clay. Navajo Indians. 175679. 

26. Green paint, car])onate of copper (malachite). 71031. 

27. Ca kwa' pi ki, with large proportion of pinon gum. 129075. 

28. Same in buckskin bag. Collected by Maj. J. W. Powell. 
22893. 

29. "Five paints used in decorating masks and bodies for the Te win 
ni dance." 1, Kohonini cuta; 2, Shaqua, copper carbonate; 3, Sha- 
quapik i; 4, Sikiyapiki; 5, Tuma, kaolin. 129074. Walpi. James 
Stevenson. 

* Pigments in Ceremonials of the Hopi, p. 264, 
NAT MUS 1900 33 



DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF THE COLLECTIONS OF GEMS 
m THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



WIRT TA8SIN, 

Assisianl Curator, Division of Minuralogy. 



473 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



I. Definition and properties of gem minerals 481 

Color 481 

Diaphaneity 482 

Luster ^. 482 

Refraction ^ 482 

Dispersion 484 

Polarization 484 

Pleochroism 484 

Phosphorescence 484 

Hardness 484 

Specific gravity 485 

Electricity 486 

Cleavage 486 

Fracture 486 

Form 487 

II. Description of )ninerals used as gems 487 

Albite: 

Aventurine — Moonstone — Peristerite 487 

Amber — Succinite 488 

Andalusite: 

Chiastolite— Made 488 

Anhydrite — V^ulpinite 489 

Apophyllite — Fish-eye stone 489 

Axinite 489 

Azurite and malachite 490 

Barite 490 

Beryl: 

Aquamarine — Emerald — Goshenite 490 

Beryilonite 491 

Brookite— Arkansite 492 

Carbonate of lime: 

Pearl — Coral — Marble — Calcite — Aragonite 492 

Cancrinite 494 

Cassiterite — Wood tin — Toad's-eye tin 494 

Catlinite — Pipestone 495 

Cat's-eye 495 

Chondrodite 495 

Chrysoberyl: 

Alexandrite — Cat's-eye — Cymophane 495 

Chrysocolla 496 

Coal — Jet — Cannel — Anthracite — Brown 496 

Cobaltite 497 

Corundum — Ruby — Sai)phire 497 

Crocidolite — Cat' s-ey e — Tiger' s-ey e 499 

475 



476 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

II. Description of minerals used as gems — Continued. Page. 

Damourite 500 

Datolite 500 

Diamond 500 

Diaspore 506 

Diopside 506 

Dioptase — ^Vchirite — Congo emerald 506 

Dumortierite 507 

Enstatite — Bronzite — Hypersthene 507 

Epidote— Thulite 508 

Euclase 508 

Fluorite — Chlorophane 508 

Gadolinite 509 

Garnet 509 

Gothite 511 

Gold 511 

Gypsmn: 

Alabaster — Satin-spar — Selenite 511 

Hematite — Chromic iron — Ilmenite * 512 

Hornblende 512 

lolite: 

Dichroite — Saphir d'eau — Water sapphire 512 

Ilvaite 513 

Isopyre 513 

Jade 513 

Kyanite — Disthene 513 

Labradorite 514 

Lapis-Lazuli 514 

Lepidolite , 515 

Magnetite — Lodestone 515 

Microcline — Amazonstone — Aventurine 515 

Microlite 515 

Natrolite 516 

Obsidian 516 

Olivine : 

Chrysolite — Peridot — Hyalosiderite 516 

Octahedrite — Anatase 517 

Odontolite — Bone turquoise — Fossil turquoise 517 

Oligoclase — Heliolite— Sunstone 517 

Opal 517 

Orthoclase: 

Adularia — Aventurine — Moonstone — Perthite 518 

Pegmatite — Graphic granite 519 

Phenacite 519 

Porphyry 519 

Prehnite — Chlorastrolite — Zonochlorite 520 

Pyrite and marcasite 520 

Quartz 520 

Rhodonite — Fo wlerite 526 

Rutile— Nigrine 526 

Samarskite 526 

Scapolite — Wernerite — Wilsonite 526 

Serpentine 527 

Smithsonite * 527 



CONTENTS. 477 

II. Description of iniiuM-als used as gemn — Continued. Page. 

Sodalite 527 

Spinel: 

Almandine — Balas-niby — Rubicelle — Sapphirine — Pleonast . . . 527 

Spodumene — Hiddenite — Lithia emerald 529 

Staurolite — Fairy stone 530 

Thomsonite — Lintonite 530 

Titanite— Sphene 530 

Topaz 530 

Tourmaline: 

Achroite — Aphrizite — Indicolite — Rubellite 532 

Turquoise — Callainite — Turkis 534 

Variscite — Utahite 535 

Yesuvianite — Cyprine — Idocrase 535 

Willemite 536 

Zircon — Hyacinth — Jacinth — Jargon 536 

III. Comparative tables of the colors and distinguishing characters of the 

better-known gems 537 

IV. Index of names of gems 544 

V. The cutting of gem stones 547 

Brilliant cut 547 

Double brilliant cut -■ 549 

Half brilliant cut 549 

Trap 1 )rilliant cut 550 

Portuguese cut 550 

Star cut 550 

Rose cut 551 

Trap or step cut 551 

Step brilliant or mixed cut 552 

Table cut 1 552 

Cabochon cut 552 

VI. Imitations, sophistications, and artificial formation of gems 553 

VII. Gems of the Bible 556 

VIII. Mystical properties of gems 558 

IX. Catalogue of the Isaac Lea Collection of gems 587 

A bibliography 649 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



PLATES. 

Facing page. 

1. Banded nodules of azurite and malachite, Morenci, Arizona. Specimen 

No. 48567, U.S.N.M 490 

2. Crocidolite in ([uartz, Griqualand West, South Africa. Specimen No. 4710.'i, 

U.S.N.M '. 500 

3. Amazonstone, Pikes Peak, Colorado. Specimen No. 81813, U.S.N.M 514 

4. Opalized wood, Clover Creek, Lincoln County, Idaho. Specimen No. 

82584, U. S. N. M .' 518 

5. Crystal.- of (inartz, Dauphiny, France. Sjjecimen No. 82218, U.S.N.M 522 

(i. Carnelian ajiate, Uruguay. Specimen No. 61770, U.S.N.M 524 

7. Kutile in (juartz (Venus' Hair Stone), Alexander County, North Carolina. 

Specimen No. 47620, U.S.N.M 526 

8. Topaz with smoky quartz. Specimen No. 81242, U.S.N.M 530 

9. Siberian topaz. Specimen No. 8 1244, U.S.N.M 532 

TEXT FIGUEES. 

Page 

1 . Diagram t( ) illustrate refraction 483 

2. Diagram to illustrate double refraction 483 

3. Nich( )ls()n hydrometer 485 

4. Emerald crystal. Stony Point, Alexander County, North Carolina; weight, 

8| ounces. Specimen No. 83730, U.S.N.M 491 

5. Corundum crystals, Ceylon. Specimen No. 81441, U.S.N.M 498 

6. Diamond crystals, Kimberly Mines, South Africa. Specimen No. 84799, 

U.S. N.M 504 

7. Garnet crystal and pebbles of pyrope. Specimen No. 82575, U.S.N.M 510 

8. Agate, Brazil. Specimen No. 44948, U.S.N.M 521 

9. Agatize(lwood,Chalcedony Park, Arizona. Specimen No. 82485, U.S.N.M. 522i 

10. Amethyst crystals. Upper Providence, I'ennsvlvania. Specimen No. 83676, 

U.S.N.M ■ 523 

11. Moss agate, Sheridan, Kansas. Specimen No. 49261, U.S.N.M 525 

12. Spinel crystals, Kandy, Ceylon. Specimen No. 49163, U.S.N.M 528 

13. Topaz pebbles (gouttes d'eau), Mitchell River, New South Wales. Speci- 

men No. 83782, U.S.N.M .' 531 

14. The brilliant: <i and /^ manner in which the brilliant is derived from the 

fundamental form; c, <I, and e, top, side, and back view of brilliant with 
58 facets; /, y, and //, top, side, and back view of modified l)rilliant with 
66 facets 548 

15. The double brilliant: top {a), side (h), and back (c) view 549 

16. The half brilliant: top {a) and side {h) view of half brilliant. In c the 

top is cut in the form of a star, then called English single cut 549 

479 



480 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

' Page. 

17. The trap brilliant: top {a), side (h), and back (c) view 550 

18. The Portuguese cut: top (a), side {h), and back {e) view 550 

19. The star cut: {a) front and (b) back view 550 

20. The rose cut: a and b, top and side view; c, side view of a double rose 551 

21. Upper and under side of trap cut. 551 

22. The step brilliant cut 552 

23. Top and side view of table cut 552 

24. The cabochon cut: a, the single cabociiun; b, tlie double cabochon; c, the 

hollow cabochon; d, flat or tallow-top cabochon; e, mixed cabochon ... 552 

25. Tlie zodiacal stones, with their signs (after an old print) 560 

26. The ligures of the planets with their signilicant stones (after an old print) . 562 



DESCRIITIVE CATALOGUE OF THE COLLECTIONS OF GEMS 
IN THE UNrrED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM. 



By Wirt Tassin, 
Assistant Curator, Division of Mineralogy. 



I. DEFINITION AND PROPERTIES OF GEM MINERALS. 

A gem mineral may be defined as a mineral of any sort distin- 
guished, especially when cut and polished, for its beauty, durability, 
or rarity. 

The essentials, beaut}'^ and durability, are dependent upon the color, 
brilliancy, and hardness of the stone, and these in turn are dependent 
upon certain chemical and physical properties characteristic of any 
one kind of mineral as compared with all other kinds of minerals. A 
detailed description of all these properties is to be found in any text- 
book of mineralogy, so that a discussion of them here will be limited 
to those that will afford a more or less read}" means of distinguishing 
one kind of gem from another or upon which their beauty largely 
depends. These several properties are: 

Color. — The character of the color in ^\\\ one kind of gem is not a 
constant, and may vary within rather wide limits. The garnet, for 
example, which popularly is supposed to be a blood or purplish red 
stone, varies through red of several shades to l)rown, black, green, 
yellow, and nearly white. The color depends upon the power of 
absorbing certain portions of light and reflecting others — that is, absorb- 
ing certain rays of the spectrum that pass through or fall upon its 
surface. Thus a gem appears red because it a))sorbs all other colors 
and reflects, or transmits chiefly the reds; a gem appears green because 
it reflects, or transmits chiefl}^ green rays, absorbing all others. In 
all cases the color results from the constituents of the light which 
have not been absorbed. Those which reflect or transmit all the colors 
in the proportions in which they exist in the spectrum and absorb 
none are white; those which absorb all and reflect or transmit none 
are black. Between these two limits there is an infinite variety of 
hues, according to the greater or less extent to which substances reflect 
or transmit some colors and absorb others. 

481 



482 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Among- minerals the many varieties of color are classed, first, as 
metallic and nonmetallic, and all shades are referred to eij^ht funda- 
mental colors — white, gray, black, blue, green, yellow, red, and brown; 
second, according to peculiarities in the arrangement of color, as play 
of color, opalescence, iridescence, and asterism; third, as to difference 
in color shown for light transmitted in ditierent directions through the 
stone. This case of color absorption is called pleochroism and is 
peculiar to certain minerals. 

Diaplianelty. — The capacity of transmitting light materially affects 
the beaut}' and value of g-ems. There is a wide difference in the degree 
of this property possessed by most gems and the amount of light 
transmitted, or the degree of transparency is classed as transparent 
when the outline of an object seen through the stone is perfectly dis- 
tinct; subtransparent when an object may be seen but its outline is 
indistinct; translucent when light is transmitted but oljjects are not 
seen; subtranslucent when merely the edges are translucent; opaque 
when no light is transmitted. , 

Luster. — This is that character depending upon the power and man- 
ner of reflecting light and is dependent upon the nature of the reflect- 
ing surface and the quantity'' or the intensity of the light reflected. 
The kinds of luster are described as metallic, the lirilliant appearance 
seen upon the surface of polished metal; adamantine, the luster of the 
diamond; vitreous, having the luster of flint glass; resinous, having 
the appearance seen upon the surface of pine resin; waxy, the luster 
of beeswax; greas}', when resembling that of a freshl}' oiled surface; 
pearly, the luster of mother-of-pearl; silky, when having a sheen like 
that of silk. The degrees of intensity are splendent, shining, glisten- 
ing, glimmering, and dull. There being no standard of description in 
regard to luster, these terms are loosely used and intermediate ones 
may be substituted in describing a particular kind of luster according 
to the judgment of the observer. 

Refraction of light. — The familiar case of the apparent breaking of 
an oar where it enters the water is an illustration of the bending back 
or refraction of light. This phenomenon occurs in the majority of 
cases where a ray of light passes obliquely from one transparent 
medium to another. Part of the incident ray enters the medium and 
changes its direction, or is refracted. 

For example, if in fig. 1 ao is a ra}^ of light passing from air into 
water, its path will be changed after ])assing the surface at o and it will 
continue in the direction oh. Conversely, if a ray of light, ho., pass 
from the denser medium, water, at o, it will take the direction oa. 
Now, if yox is a perpendicular to the surface, ww^ at o, it will be seen 
that the angle aoy., called the angle of incidence (/) of the ray, «o, is 
greater than the angle hox., called the angle of refraction (/■), and what 
is observed in this case is found to ])e universall}^ true. Again, how- 



CATALOGUE OB' GEMS. 



483 




Fig. 1. 

DIAGRAM TO ILLUSTRATE REFRACTION. 



ever great or sniall the !ino-l(> of incidence may ])e, there i.s alway.s a 
constant relation between it and the angle of refraction for two given 
substances. This constant relation is the ratio between the sines of 
the incident and refracted angle, and is called the index of refractiooi. 
When a ray of light passes from one medium into another which is 
less refracting, as from water into air, the angle of incidence is less 
than the angle of refraction. Hence 
when light is propagated in a mass of 
water there is always a value of the angle 
of incidence such that the angle of refrac- 
tion is a right angle, in which case the 
refracted vax emerges parallel to the sur- 
face of the water. This angle is called 
the critical angle, since for any greater 
angle the incident ray can not emerge, 
but undergoes an internal reflection, 
which is called total reflection because 
the incident light is entirely reflected. 
From water to air the critical angle is 
48° 3.5'. In th(^ example given, air and water, r = 48° 35'. Now, sup- 
posing the light to go from 1> to r>, the line oc will coincide with the 
line of (the critical angle). If the value of /• is increased, the ra}^ 
will no longer pass from water into air, 1)ut undergoes total reflection 
at the surface o. 

In total reflection there is no loss of light from absorption or trans- 
mission, and accordingly it produces the 
greatest brilliancy. The luster of trans- 
parent bodies bounded b}^ plane surfaces, 
'i such as the luster of gems, arises mainly 
from total reflection. This luster is the 
more frequent and the more brilliant the 
smaller the limiting angle. The diamond, 
having the smallest value for its limiting 
angle, is the most brilliant of all gems. 

There are certain transparent substances 
which possess the power of splitting the 
refracted I'ay into two. The most famil- 
iar example of this is furnished l)y the 
minei-al calcit«\ If ef</h (flg. 2) be a cleavage piece of calcite and a 
ray of light meets it at o, it will in passing through be divided into 
two rays, ot\ od, one of which follows the ordinary law of refraction, 
the other a more complicated law. Similarly, a line seen through a 
piece of calcite ordinarily appears double. This phenomenon is called 
double refraction. The diamond, garnet, and all other minei-als belon- 
ging to the isometric system are singly refracting. The ruby, topaz, 




Fig. 2. 



DIAGRAM TO ILLUSTRATE DOUBLE 
REFRACTION. 



484 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

and all minerals belonging- to sj^stems of ciystallization other than the 
isometric are doubly refracting. 

Dk2jersion of light.— ^Nh^n a ra}^ of light passing from one mcdinm 
to another is refracted, it maj^ be decomposed into several kinds of 
light, separated more or less widely from each other and difi'erently 
colored. A familiar example of this is seen when a beam of sunlight 
passes through a Hint-glass prism and produces a band of colors in all 
the hues of the rainbow. This decomposition of light by refraction 
is called dispersion. Upon it depends that peculiar quality of "fire" 
or play of prismatic hues in gems, a marked characteristic in the 
diamond and zircon. 

Polarization of light. — The light which passes through a doubly 
refracting cr3^stal undergoes a peculiar change. A ra}^ of light which 
has been once split by passing through a doubly refracting substance 
will not again be divided on passing through another doubly refract- 
ing substance, nor can it again be reflected at a certain angle, nor 
again traverse in a certain direction the substance in which it has suf- 
fered this change. Light which has acquired these properties is said 
to be polarized. 

Pleochroism. — This is the variation in color observed in doubly 
refracting minerals when viewed in difierent directions. This prop- 
erty is conspicuous in the tourmaline, iolite, chrysoberyl, and epidote. 
The pleochroism of gems can best be observed with the aid of an 
instrument called the dichroscope. 

This consists of an oblong rhombohedron of Iceland spar, at the 
extremities of which is cemented a glass prism of 18°. This is con- 
tained in a cylindrical metal case having a convex lens at one end and 
a square opening at the other. On looking through the lens the 
square opening appears double. When a pleochroic gem is examined 
in transmitted light with this instrument, the two squares on a revolu- 
tion will be found to have different colors at certain intervals. 

Phosj^horescence. — The emission of light or phosphorescence may be 
produced in different ways; by rise of temperature, by mechanical 
effect, and by insolation — that is, by exposure to the direct action of 
sunlight. Phosphorescence is a property possessed by some gems, 
notabl}^ the diamond. 

Hardness. — ^This is the degree of resistance the mineral offers to 
abrasion. It is usually referred to an arbitrary scale of ten minerals 
showing a regular gradation in hardness from 1, talc, the softest; 2, 
gypsum; 3, calcite; 4, fluorite; 5, apatite; 6, orthoclase; 7, quartz; 8, 
topaz; 9, corundum, to 10, diamond, the hardest. The scale is used 
as follows: Fragments of the minerals comprising the scale are applied 
in succession to the stone under examination. Should the test stone 
neither scratch nor be scratched by a particular unit in the scale, the 
hardness of the two are the same. Should the test piece scratch one 



CATALOGTTE OF GEMS. 



485 



and be scratched b}" the next nuin])er of the scido idxn'e it, its hardness 
is somewhere })etween the two units. 

The property of hardness is an essential in gem stones, since upon 
it depend its capabilities of receiving- and retaining a high degree 
of polish and of resisting wear from abrasion. It is also often an 
available method of identifying a gem. In testing cut stones, however, 
care nuist be taken not to disfigure them, and, if possible, the girdle, 
or the part hid by the mount, should be used as the test surface. 
Furthermore, the term "hardness" must not be confused with tough- 
ness or difficulty of breakage. A very hard stone may be a very 
brittle or fragile one. Hardness means simply 
liability or nonliabilit}^ to scratch. 

Specific (jVimHy. — This is the density of a l)ody 
compared with that of distilled water at a cer- 
tain temperature (commonly at 60° F.). 

The determination of specilic gravity is in 
principle very simple. The sul)stance is at first 
weighed in air, then in water; divide the weight 
in air by the loss of weight in water, and the 
quotient is the specific gravit}'. Thus if a gem 
w^eighs 5 grams in air and only 3 in water, it is 
evident that it has displaced 2 grams of water, 
and its specific gravity is 2.5. 

In order to get absolute results, very delicate 
balances have to be used and man}' precautions 
taken, but for ordinary work such care is not 
necessary. 

A very convenient specific-gravity apparatus 
that is sufficientl}^ close for ordinary use is the 
Nicholson hydrometer (fig. 3). This consists of 
a float having a descending hook, to which is 
hung a pan to hold the substance weighed in 
water. A wire stem supports a cup on which the weights and the 
substance weighed in air are placed. A mark on the stem shows the 
point at which the whole apparatus will float in a vessel of water when 
a certain known weight (called the balance weight) is placed in the 
weight cup. The specimen under examination must not exceed in 
weight that of the balance weight, this being the limit of the appara- 
tus. Suppose the limit to be 100 grams. Then to find the specific 
gravity of a substance, place it on the weight pan and add weights 
until the instrument sinks to the mark. The difference between the 
added weight and 100 is the weight of the specimen in air. Then 
place the specimen in the lower pan; as much more weight on the 
weight pan will now be required as corresponds to the weight of a 
bulk of water equal to that of the specimen. The difference of weight 




Fig. 3. 

NICHOLSON IIYDRO.METEK. 



480 RKPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

thu.s found will bo the divisor of the weight of the specimen and the 
quotient will 1)«^ the .specific gmvity. Thus: 

The suhstaiKH' is placed in the weight eui). 

The Uiiiit of the apparatus is - 100. Ml i 

Weight added to sink instrument to mark 22. oi ) 

Weight of specimen in air is then 77. "ii ) 

Specimen placed in lower i)an requires, to sink instrument to mark, the 

weight 35. 50 

Now% 35.50—22.50=13, the weight of a like bulk of water. Then 
77.50-^13=5.9615, the specific gravity sought. 

The speeitie gra\'itv test is one of the most important and reliable 
means of identifying a gem, since it is practically a constant ft)r all 
individuals of the same kind, while the difference between individuals 
of different kinds is often considerable. Thus: 

Zircon 4. 6 t Topaz .3. 65 

Almandite 4. 2 Diamond 3. 52 

Sapphire 4. I Beryl 2. 70 

Further, if the specific gravities of two substances are known, by 
taking the specific gravity of their compound the relative weights of 
the components may be found. Thus, having the w^eight of a diamond 
and gold ring we can find the weight of the diamond. 

Let A be the weight of the stone, a its specific gravity; B be the 
weight of the gold, h its specific gravity; C be the weight of the ring, 
c its specific gravity: 

ThenA + B = Cand ABC 

a b c 
(c-b) a 

From which we obtain A = C (a-b) c • 

Electricity. — The electrical properties of minerals are distinguished 
by the following terms: Frictional electricity, pyroelectricity, and 
thermoelectricity. Of these we have to do only Avith frictional elec- 
tricity, or the power of becoming electrified by friction, and as a 
result attracting or repelling certain substances. This property is 
especially noticeable in the topaz, tourmaline, and amber. 

(JlemHK/e. — This is that tendency of a mineral to break in the direc- 
tion of minimum cohesion, and that direction is always parallel to some 
plane which occurs or may occur in the crystal. The cleavage is char- 
acterized, first, according to direction, that is, when parallel to certain 
faces or planes; second, according to the ease with which it ma}" be 
obtained, as perfect, imperfect, interrupted, or difficult. 

Frad\u'<>. — This i.s that surface obtained b}' breaking the mineral in 
a direction other than that of the cleavage. It ma}" be designated as 
conchoidal, that is, breaking with cavities more or less deep; even, 
when the fracture approximates a plane surface; uneven, when the 
surface is ii-regular; hackly or splintery, when the surface is jagged. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 487 

F(n'm. — The external form of a gem mineral may be described as: 
A — crystal lized. B — crystalline, and ^ '^amorphous. 

A — Crystallized: ^Vhen made up of geometrical solids, any indi- 
vidual polyhedral form of which is called a crystal. Crystals are 
bounded hy plain surfaces called planes or faces, symmetricallj'^ 
arranged with reference to one or more imaginar}" ' diametral lines 
called axes. 

Crystals, though their forms and modifications are of an idefinite 
number, are classified under six systems according to the num])er and 
character of their axes. The systems of crystallization and tj^pical 
examples occurring under each are: 

Isometric. 

Examples: Cube, octahedron, and dodecahedron. 
Tetragonal. 

Examples: Square prism and square octahedron. 
Hexagonal. 

Examples: Hexagonal prisms, pyramids, and rhombohedrons. 
Ortliorhoml)ic. 

Examples: Right prism on a rhombic base and a rhombic; octahedron. 
Monoclinic. 

Examples: Oblique prisms on a rectangular base and oblique octahedron on 
a rhombic base. 
Triclinic. 

PLxamples: Doubly oljlique i)rism and doubly oblique octahedron or pyramid. 

B — Crystalline: When the mass appears to be made up of closely 
compacted, minute crystals. The individuals composing crystalline 
masses may be: In columns or fibers, in which ease the structure is 
columnar: in thin laminae, plates, or leaves, giving rise to a lamellar 
structure; in grains, producing a granular structure. Further, there 
are numerous irregular and accidental groupings of the individuals 
composing the mass, giving to it certain shapes, such as globular, 
botryoidal, reniform, dendritic, etc., which are too numerous to allow 
of a specification here. These indeterminate forms are grouped luider 
the head of "imitative shapes." 

( ' — Amorphous: Finally, the mass ma}^ be entirely destitute of crys- 
talline structure or imitative shape and show neither external nor 
internal signs of crystallization. Such a mass is said to be amorphous. 

II. DESCRIPTION OF MINERALS USED AS GEMS. 

ALBITE. 

AVENTURINE — MOONSTONE — PERISTERITE. 

Albite occurs in opaque to transparent masses and in triclinic crystals 
having a cleavage in two directions, one of which is highl}' perfect. 
The mineral has a hardness of 6; a specific gravity of 2.62, and a 
vitreous luster, often pearly on a cleavage surface. Color white, also 

NAT MUS IHdO 34 



488 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, VX)0. 

l)luish, jrrayish, reddish, greenish, and green, occasional!}^ having a 
bhiish chatoyancv or pla}' of color. 

Tlic use of this mineral for gem purposes is practicality restricted to 
those kinds showing a bluish opalescence or play of colors, or an 
aventurine effect, or which give a moonstone effect when cutcaljochon. 
Prominent among the kinds affording gem material are: IVrisferite, 
a whitish adularia-like all)ite presenting a bluish chatoyancy, usually 
more or less mixed with pale green and yellow, the play of color 
resembling that on the neck of a pigeon; hence the name, from 
Ttspiorspd, pigeon. Aventurine, a grayish white to reddish gray albite 
with internal fire-like reflections proceeding from minute disseminated 
occluded crystals. Moo7istone, a transparent all)itc having a chatoyant 
reflection resembling that of a cat's eye, or an opaque pearly white 
albite having a ])hiish opalescence. 

Al])ite is a constituent of many crystalline rocks and often replaces 
common feldspar as a constituent of granite, and is frequently a con- 
stituent of syenite and greenstone; in other instances it is associated 
with feldspar and dolomite. Some of the most common occuirences 
are in veins or cavities in granite or granitoid rocks, such veins being 
then frequently repositories of fine crystals of other gem minerals, 
such as beryl, tourmaline, smok}^ quartz, etc. 

One hundred parts of albite contain: Silica, 68.7; alumina, 19.5; 

oda, 11.8. 

AMBER. 

SUCCINITE. 

A fossU resin occurring in irregular masses without cleavage and 
having a conchoidal fracture. Color yellow, sometimes reddish, 
brownish, and whitish, often clouded, and occasionally fluorescent, 
exhibiting a peculiar blue or green tinge. Hardness 2 to 2.5; ])rittlc. 
Specific gravity 1.05 to 1.09. Luster resinous to waxy. Transparent 
to opaque. Negatively electrified by friction. It burns readily with 
a rich yellow flame and aromatic odor; heated to 150° C. it begins to 
soften and finally melts at about 250° C, giving off dense white fumes 
having an irritating aromatic odor. It is soluble in alcohol. 

Amber contains in 100 parts: Carbon, 78.96; hydrogen, 10.51; oxy- 
gen, 10.52. 

ANDALUSITE. 

CHIASTOLITE — MAChE. 

Andalusite has but a limited use as a gem. It crystallizes in the 
orthorhombic system conmionly in coarse prismatic forms, the prisms 
often nearly square; occurring also massive, columnar, radiated, and 
granular. The color varies from a reddish or greenish brown to olive 
green, flesh red, rose red, violet, and pearl gray; pleochroism strong 
in some colored varieties, green in one direction and hyacinth to rose- 



CvVTALOGUE OF GEMS. 489 

rod ill iinother. Luster, vitr(M)us, often weak. Ilaidness. 7.5, .some- 
what greater than that of quartz; brittle. Specitie gravity. 8.2; cleav- 
age, prismatic and distinct; often perfect. 

The variety chiastolite, or made, varies in hardness from 5 to 7.5 
due to the presence of impurities, which, in part, are arranged sym- 
metrically about the axes of the crystal so as to give a tessellated 
appearance in cross section. 

Andalusite contains: Silica, 37; ahunina, 63. 

ANHYDRITE. 

VULPINITE. 

Anlu'drite, anhydrous sulphate of lime, has a hardness of 3.5, a 
specific gravity of 2.0, and a vitreous to pearh* luster. Color, white, 
grajnsh, bluish, reddish; also brick red and blue. Anh3^drite has been 
variously denominated muriacite, anhydrite, and tripe stone, according 
to its structure; the first, when crystallized in l)road lamellae; the 
second, when granular, and the third, when composed of contorted 
plates. Vulpinite is a siliceous variety containing 8 per cent of silica 
and is the kind most used for ornamental purposes. The use of anj- 
of the varieties is limited. Anhydrite contains 41.2 parts of lime and 
58.8 parts of sulphuric acid in 1(>(». 

APOPHYLLITE. 

FISH-EYE STONE. 

Apophyllite is occasionally cut for gem purposes. 

The hardness of the mineral is below 5; its specific gravity is 2,33; 
its color varies from white to gray, occasionally tinged with green, 
pink, or yellow. It crystallizes in the tetragonal system, usually in 
octahedrons having their solid angles truncated. The faces thus 
formed have a decided pearly luster, the others vitreous. Apophyllite 
was so named in allusion to its tendency to exfoliate under the blow- 
pipe. Its pearly luster, producing an efiect like that of a fish's e3'e, 
gave rise to the name "'fish-eye stone," or ichthyophthalmite. 

Apophyllite occurs commoidy as a secondary minei'al in ])asalt and 
related rocks associated with datolite, pectolite, and the several zeolites. 
One hundred parts contain: Silica, 52.7; lime, 26; potash. 4.4; water, 
16.7. There is also a variable proportion of fluorine present which 
probably bears no relation to the compound. 

AXINITE. 

CrA'stals of axinitc are o<'casioiially cut for ornamental use. Axinite 
crystallizes in the triclinic system, commonl}^ in broad, acute-edged, 
wedge-shaped forms, occurring also massive. The hardness of the 
mineral is about 7, or near that of (piartz, Init it is so extremely 
brittle that it is fashioned only with difficulty. Luster, vitreous. 



490 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 19(X). 

Transparent to subtransluccnt. Specific gravity, 3.27. Color, clove 
brown, plum })luo, violet, pearl gray, and honey vellow to greenish 
3'ello\v, It is usually strongly pleochroic, pale olive-green specimens 
giving, with the dichroscope, olive-green and violet-blue images. 

The composition of axinite in 100 parts is approximately: Silica, 4.3; 
boron trioxide, 5; aliunina, 16; ferric oxide, 10; manganese oxide, 3; 
potash, 1; lime, 20; magnesia, 2. 

AZURITE AND MALACHITE. 

The use of the two carbonates of copper as gems is limited by their 
softness and opacity. Their hardness is 4; their specific gravity varies 
from 3.5 to 1, and they possess a vitreous to adamantine luster, 
occasionally silky. Malachite is a bright green in color, varjdng 
somewhat in tint and usuallj^ in veinings or markings. Azurite shows 
the various shades of azure passing into Berlin blue. Botryoidal 
masses of these carbonates occur in which the two minerals are in 
alternate concentric layers, giving rise to a very pleasing effect. 

Malachite contains: Copper oxide, 71.9; carbon dioxide, 19.9; water, 
8.2. Azurite contains: Copper oxide, 69.2; carbon dioxide, 25.6; 
water, 5.2. (Plate 1.) 

BARITE. 

Barite can hardl}^ be regarded as a gem stone, its softness permit- 
ting rapid abrasion. Its hardness does not exceed 3.5; its specific 
gravit}' is 4.3 to 4.7, depending upon the amount of impurity present. 
Its color ranges between white, gray, blue, red, or brown; the colors 
occasionally banded or mottled. Luster vitreous, sometimes pearly. 

One hundred parts contain: Baryta, 65.59; sulphuric acid, 34.33. 

BERYL. 

EMERALD AQUAMARINE— GOSHENITE. 

The beryl crystallizes in six-sided hexagonal prisms, usually long- 
prismatic and often having the prism faces more or less deeply 
striated vertically. The specific gravity of the transparent fiawless 
beryl is 2.73; usually 2.69 to 2.70. Hardness 7.5 to 8. Brittle. 
Cleavage indistinct. Fracture uneven to conchoidal. Luster vitre- 
ous, occasionally resinous. The colors of the beryl include emerald 
green passing into pale green, and pale blue, pale 3'ellow, honey, wine, 
and citrine yellow, white, to a pale rose-red. The pleochroism is 
more or less distinct; occasionally strong, especially in the emerald 
which, when viewed across the prism with the dichroscope, shows two 
different shades of green. 

Mineralogically the })eryl includes the emerald, aquamarine, 
goshenite, and davidsonite. The general composition, fundamental 
crystalline form, hardness, and specific gravity of all the varieties are 
essentially the same, the difference being primarily one of color. The 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Tassin. 



Plate 1, 




Banded Nodules of Azurite and Malachite. 

Morenci, Arizona. 
Specimen No. 48.^(i7. U.S.X.M. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 



491 



emerald imliicU>s tho rich green colored kinds only. It is u liighh^ 
prized gem wlien of :i l)right emerald green color, clear, and free 
from flaws. 

The aquamarine includes those beryls showing clear shades of sky 
blue and sea green. Goshenite is a white or colorless variety from 
Goshen, ^Massachusetts. Davidsonite is a greenish 3'ellow beryl from 
near Aberdeen, Scotland. Other varieties are: Aeroides, pale sk}' 
l)hu'; hyacinthozontiv^. cloar sapphire blue; amethiste basaltine, pale 




Fig. 4. 

EMERALD CRYSTAL. 

Stony Point, Alexander County, North Carolina. 
Weight, 8J ounces. 

Spti-iinen No. 83730, U.S.N. M. 



violet or reddish; chrysolithus, pale yellowish green; golden beryl, 
clear bright yellow, and chr3^soberyllus, greenish yellow to honey or 
wine yellow. All the varieties are somewhat brittle and contain in 
100 parts: Silica, 60.8; alumina, 19.1; glucina, 11.1. 



BERYLLONITE. 



BeryMonite was first found loo.sc among tiie disintegrated material 
of a gianite vein at Stoneham, Maine, in 1880, and this is still the only 
locality' \nown. It occurs in short prismatic to tabular and highl}'^ 



4^)2 KKPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, J!HH». 

complex ciTstals having a hardness of ('» and a specific gravity of ^.84. 
The transparency and brilliaiicy of the stone resembles that of topaz. 
One hundi'cd parts contain: Phosphoric acid, 55.86; glucina, 19.84; 
soda, 28.72. 

BROOKITE. 

ARKANSITK. 

Brookite does not readil}' admit of polish, and in consequence has 
little use as a gem. Its hardness is 5.5 to 6; specific gravity, 4.12 for 
])r()okite and 4. OS for arkansite. Brookite includes the hair ])roAvn, yel- 
loM'ish, reddish, or ru))y I'ed, transparent to translucent kinds having a 
metallic adamantine luster. Arkansite includes the brilliant, iron- 
l)lack, opaque kinds. 

CcMuposition: Titanium, 00.98; oxygen, 39.02. 

CARBONATE OF LIME. 

I'HAKI. ( OUAI, MARHLK CAU ITK AKA(iONrTR. 

Carl)onate of lime is juost widely distri))uted in a variety of forms, 
the varieties depending upon differences in origin, crj'stallization and 
structural condition, presence of impurities, etc. With the exception 
of })earl and coral, the many forms find a use more for decorative pur- 
poses than for personal, adornment. 

Pearl.H are concretions, consisting essentially of carl)onate of lime, 
found in the shells of certain mollusks. Thev are the result of an 
abnormal secretory process caused by an irritation of the mantle of 
the moUusk, resulting from the introduction into the shell of some 
foreign body, such as a grain of sand. 

Pearls possess a luster peculiar to themselves, which is called pearly 
or nacreous. This luster may exist on the exterior surface only of the 
concretion, or the outer surface may be dull and dead in luster while 
an inner surface may be clear and lustrous. Their specific gravity is 
2.5 to 2.T; their hardness 2.5 to 3.5. They may be of any shape, 
and in some instances of considerable size. In color they range from 
an opaque white, through pink, yellow, salmon, fawn, purple, red, 
green, brown, ])lue, black, passing through the several shades of these 
colors, or of almost any color; in addition they may be iridescent. 
In general, their color and luster will be that of the interior shell sur- 
face adjacent to which they are formed. 

The beauty and value of pearls is dependent upon their color, tex- 
ture or " skin," transparency or " water," luster, and form, the most 
valuable being those Avhich are round or pear-shaped, slightly trans- 
parent, free from specks or blemishes, and possessing to the highest- 
degree the characteristic luster. 

Pearls are liable to detcu'iorate with age, contact Avith acids, gases, 
and vapors, and though various methods are in use for restoring them 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 498 

to their original beauty, thej^ are liy no means to be relied upon, so 
that care should be taken to preserve tine pearls by carefully wiping 
them after use with a clean, soft cloth and keeping them wrapped in 
a clean cloth in a closed box. 

Although nearh' all bivalves with nacreous shells occasionally yield 
pearls, practically all of the pearls of commerce are obtained from a 
few families only of moliusks, prominent among which are the Avicu- 
lidae, Unionidae, and Mytilidae. The pearl oyster of the Pacitic and 
Indian oceans, which has j'ielded the bulk of the pearls of the world, 
belongs to the tirst of these groups. The unio, or fresh-water mussel, 
so abundant in the rivers and lakes of North America, belongs to the 
second. 

Coral is essentially carbonate of lime produced \ij gelatinous marine 
animals called poh'ps. The coral-forming animals are very often, 
though wrongly, called coral insects, and the coral is not built up as 
bees build a comb, but grows, as do the bones of other animals, being 
produced or secreted b}^ a peculiar layer of the skin. The small star- 
like pits on a branch of coral represent the places where the various 
members of the colon}^ once grew. 

Although coral is found abundantly in the seas of many parts of the 
globe, that adapted to purposes of ornament comes almost entirelj^ 
from the African coast of the Mediterranean. The beds lie at a depth 
of 500 to 800 feet below the surface of the sea, and the coral is won 
by means of iron drags and nets. The coral varies in color from deep 
red through pink to green, brown, yellow, white, and black. The red 
coral, once the most valua])le, is now worth far less than the rose-pink, 
while the white, yellow, and black corals are of very little value. 

Coral is frequently imitated in horn, bone, and ivory; also b}^ a 
composition made up of plaster of paris, gum, and coloring matter. 

Marhles consist essentially of carbonate of lime, with more or less 
carbonate of magnesia. They are fine to :oarse granular in structure, 
and exhibit various colors, as white, yellow, red, green, blue, etc., 
often clouded and giving a handsome eflect when polished. Statuary 
marhle is pure white and fine grained; the best is from Paros and 
Carrara, Italy. Ar^chitectural marlle is both white and colored. The 
Cljjolin is white, tinged with green. The Siena is yellow, veined or 
clouded with brownish red. The Mandelato is light red with white 
spots. The B<(rdi(/lio is gray with dark cloudings. Verde- Antique is 
clouded yellowish to bluish green. The Partor or Egyptian warUe is 
black, veined with j^ellow. Lumachelle ox fire marble is a dark brown 
shell marble with brilliant fire-like or chatoyant internal reflections. 
Madreporlc rnarhle contains corals. Huin niarhle is a kind showing, 
when polished, figures bearing a resemblance to cities, castles, etc. , in 
ruins. OoUtr is a concretionar}' massive limestone made up of minute 
spherical grains resembling the roe of a fish, the name coming from 



494 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900, 

Goov^ egg; pisolite differs from oolite in the larger size of its particles. 
Stalactites are pendent masses of limestone formed in caverns by the 
percolation of water, holding lime in solution, which on evaporation 
leaves the carbonate of lime. Stalagmites are of the same material, 
covering the floors of the cavern. Stalactites and stalagmites vary in 
diaphaneity from nearly transparent to opaque, and are frequently 
made up of layers of different colors, giving rise when polished to 
agate-like bandings. Stalagmites when fine grained and pure white 
are sometimes called alahasteQ'. Oriental onyx^ Gihraltar stotie, onyx 
rnarhle, and Mexican onyx have beautif ullj^ banded, mottled, or clouded 
structures, often showing wide ranges of color. 

Calcite and aragonite consist essentially of carbonate of lime (lime 
56, carbonic acid 44). They occur crystallized and massive, and vary 
in color from white through various shades of gra}^, red, green, ^^ellow, 
brown, blue, and black. Calcite has a hardness of 3 and a specific 
gravity of 2.72 when pure. Aragonite has a hardness of 3.5 and a 
specific gravit}' of 2.93. Their use as gems is limited to fibrous kinds, 
called satin spar, and those specimens showing rich colors. 

CANCRINITE. 

Cancrinite is occasionally fine enough to be used as a gem. It crys- 
tallizes in six and twelve sided hexagonal prisms, also occurring 
massive. Luster, weak vitreous, inclining to greasy. Transparent to 
subtransparent. Color, yellow of sfeveral shades, also white, gray, 
greenish, bluish, or reddish. Hardness 5.5 to 6; specific gravit}'^ 2.44. 

Cancrinite is found at Miask in the Urals; also in the Turkinsk 
Mountains in a coarse granite with zircon, calcite, and magnetite; and 
in crystals and massive at Litchfield, Maine, with sodalite and zircon. 
This localit}^ affords bright orange yellow and pale yellow specimens; 
occasionally the yellow cancrinite is found penetrating the blue sodal- 
ite, forming, when polished, a very attractive stone. 

One hundred parts of cancrinite contain: Silica, 38.7; carbon diox- 
ide, 6.3; alumina, 29.3; lime, 4; soda, 17.S; water, 3.9. 

CASSITERITE. 

WOOD TIN — TOAD'S-EYE TIN. 

Cassiterite, or tin stone, is used to a very limited extent for orna- 
mental purposes. Its hardness is between 6 and 7; specific gravity 
6.69; luster adamantine. Color, brown or black, occasionalh' gray, 
white, or j'^ellow. The mineral occurs in tetragonal crystals and mass- 
ive; often in reniform shapes having a fibrous structure. The variet}' 
known as wood tin occurs in reniform or botryoidal shapes made up 
of concentric layers or ])andings having a fibrous structure and resemb- 
ling dark wood. Toad's-eye tin is the same on a smaller scale. Cas- 
siterite contain}? in lOO parts: Tin, 78.28; oxygen, 21.62. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 495 

CATLINITE. 

PIPE STOXE. 

Catlinite, or pipe stone, is a compact clay slate of an ash g'ray to 
deep red color, or red with white and gray spots. It occurs in beds 
in Pipestone, especially at Coteaii de Prairies, and in Cottonwood, 
Watonwan. Nicollet counties, Minnesota; at Flandeau and Sioux 
Falls. South Dakota; Sac County, Iowa; Barron County, Wisconsin, 
and elsewhere in the Upper Mississippi and Missouri country. Cat- 
linite is worked into ornamental pipes, paper weights, ash trays, 
match boxes, and other trinkets. 

CAT'S-EYE. 

The term cat's-eye is applied to a lumiber of minerals which, when 
cut cabochon, exhibit a peculiar opalescence characterized by a line, 
or ray, of light across the stone and resembling- the contracted pupil 
of the eye of a cat. Among the minerals which, when fibrous or cut 
across the cleavage, will show the cat's-e3^e ra}' are: Ber}'!; chryso- 
l)eryl, especiall}^ the cymophane; corundum; crocidolite; dumortier- 
ite; quartz filled with acicular crystals or fibrous minerals, such as 
actinolite, Iwssolite, hornblende, etc.; h3'persthene; enstatite: bronz- 
ite; aragonite; gypsum; labradorite; limonite; hematite, etc. Such 
gems may be opaque, translucent, or transparent, and raa}^ be of any 
color or colors. 

CHONDRODITE. 

The hardness, translucency, and range of color of this mineral ren- 
der it suitable for use as one of the minor gems. It occurs in mono- 
clinic crystals of a varied habit; also massive, compact, and in 
embedded grains. Its hardness is 6.5; brittle. Cleavage indistinct. 
Fracture conchoidal. Luster, vitreous. Specific gravity, 3.1 to 3.2. 
Color, light to dark yellow, honey yellow, garnet, hj^acinth, and brown- 
ish red. Pleochroism occasionally distinct, especially in brownish-red 
cr3'stals. 

Chondrodite, from jot'fjpocr, a grain, in allusion to its granular 
structure, occurs usually in embedded grains or granular masses in 
limestone. It is found abundantl}^ at the Till}^ Foster mine, Brew- 
ster, New York, in deep garnet-red crj^stals of great beauty. 

One hundred parts contain approximateh" Silica, 33.06; magnesia, 
5.5. -±6; iron, 3.65; fiuorine, 7.60. 

CHRYSOBERYL. 

AI.KXAXDRITE^ — CAT's-EYE CVMOPnANE. 

The gems known as ah^xandrite, oriental chrysolite, and cymophane, 
or true cat's-eye, are varieties of chrvso})eryl. Th(^ minei'al crystal- 
lizes in the orthorhombic system, generally in ta])ular crystals, often 



496 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

twinned unci frequently repeated, forming pseudo-hexagonal crystals 
with or without reentrant angles. The cleavage of the mineral is 
quite distinct in one direction. Fracture uneven. Its hardness is 8.5. 
Specific gravit}'^ 3.5 to 3.84. Luster, vitreous. The color ranges from 
asparagus green, grass green, emerald green, greenish white, yellowish 
p-rcen, o-olden vellow, to brown and intermediate hues: sometimes a 
rasp})erry or columbine red by transmitted light, and occasionall}'^ hav- 
ing a bluish opalescence internally. 

Alexandrite is the emerald-green variety which b}' artificial light 
appears a columbine or raspberry red. The crystals have a specific 
gravity of 3.044. 

Cymophan6, or true cat's-e^^e, is of a greenish ^^ellow color and 
exhibits a fine chatoj^ant effect, due to minute internal striations result- 
ing from twinning, either of the crj^stal itself or of minute composite 
crystals of which the whole is made up. 

The name chrysoheryl is from jpv goff, golden, and §r}pvXkoz^ beryl. 
Cymoj^have, from KV}xa^ wave, and (jxxivco, to appear, alludes to its 
peculiar opalescence. Alexandrite is named after Alexander 1 of 
Russia. 

Chrysoberyl of gem value has not as yet been found in the United 
States. "^I'he chief source of the supph'^ is Minas Geraes, Brazil, and 
Ceylon. Alexandrite occurs chiefly in the Orenburg district, the Urals, 
Siberia. 

CHRYSOCOLLA. 

This muieral, when coated with or contained in quartz or chalcedonj^ 
is occasionally cut as a gem. Chrysocolla is a h^^drated copper silicate 
having a mountain green, bluish green, passing into a sky blue, color. 

COAL. 

JET — CANNEL — ANTHRACITE — BROWN. 

The most important of the mineral coals used for ornamental pur- 
poses is jet, a compact, soft, light coal of a lustrous velvet black color, 
susceptible of a high polish. It is the Gagates of Dioscoridesand Pliny, 
a name derived from the river Gagas, in S^'ria, near the mouth of 
which it was early found. The finest specimens are now found in 
detached pieces in a clay near Whitby, Yorkshire, England. 

Ccmnd coal has a dark gra_yish-l)lack or brownish-black color; a fine, 
compact texture; a large conchoidal fracture, and receives a good pol- 
ish. It burns readily, without melting, with a clear yellow flame, and 
has l)een used as a substitute for candles, whence its name. It is occa- 
sionally worked into inkstands, snuff boxes, breast pins, bracelets, 
and other similar articles. 

AiifJirticite is harder than either jet or cannel coal; it is iron black 
in coloi-; occasionally iridescent, and lias a bright, often submetallic, 
luster, and a conchoidal fracture. Anthracite is sometimes made into 



CATALOGUE OF GEM8. 49? 

beads and other round ornaments, trinki^ts, and charms. It is also 
made into candlesticks, paper weights, etc. 

Brown, coal is more recent in its origin than the Carboniferous period 
of g-eologists. It sometimes closely resembles ordinary bituminous, or 
soft coal. Other varieties have a brownish-black color, with more or less 
of the texture of wood remaining. Often the form and fiber of the 
original tree is retained. This variety is then called l/gnite. Brown 
coal in some of its varieties is occasionally made into paperweights, 
charms, and trinkets. 

COBALTITE. 

Cobaltite, when in groups or crusts of small, brilliant crj'stals, is 
occasionally cut into ovals or other shapes and used as ring stones, 
mountings for scarf pins, and other ornaments. Its color is pale steel 
gray, tarnishing to copper or flesh red. Its hardness is aliout 5. 

One hundred parts contain: Cobalt, 8.5..^); arsenic, 45.2; sulphur, 19.8. 

CORUNDUM. 

KriiY SAI'l'IlIRE. 

Corundum crystallizes in the hexagonal system in six-sided prisms 
and pyramids, the crystals often rough and rounded. Hardness 9. 
Brittle. Specific gravity about 4, the range being from 3.916 to -1.16. 
Luster, adamantine to vitreous; sometimes pearl}^ on the basal plane 
and occasionalh" exhi])iting a ])right, opalescent, six-rayed star in the 
direction of the vertical axis. The color range includes nearly all the 
prismatic hues to colorless. Pleochroic in the strongly colored ^'arie- 
ties. Occasionally phosphorescent, with a rich red color. 

The transparent corinidimis rank among the most valuable of gem 
stones, and include two recognized varieties, the rub}' and the sap- 
phire. The red-colored corundums are called rubies. They var}' in 
hue from a rose to a deep carmine, the same crystal occasionally 
exhibiting different colors, the most approved tint being a ''pigeon's 
l)lood" red. The sapphire, in general, includes corundums of any 
color except the red. Specifically, the name is limited in its usi^ to the 
blue-colored spe(;imens, the approved tints being royal blue, \'elvet 
blue, and cornflower blue. The sapphire occasionally exhibits a dif- 
ferent color efl^ect ])y natural light from that seen by artificial light, 
and as a rule is less brilliant by the latter. 

Corundums of other colors are named according to tluMr hues: Ori- 
ental emerald, the green-colored kinds, varying in tint from a lively 
green, exceeding that of the emerald, to a sea or bluish green. 

Oriental amethyst, purple or amethystine. Oriental topaz, yellow, 
rivaling the yellow diamond in brilliancy. Oriental hyacinth is hya- 
eiuthine in tint and is rare. Adamantine spar includes the hair-ln-own 
varieties. 

The six-rayed star seen in many <'l<)uded corundums, especially when 



498 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



cut ('{i])ochoii with the .summits cutting- the vertical axis of the prism, 
is due to numerous minute crystals or layers within the stone which 
reflect the incident light so as to produce the stellar efi'ect. These 
rays are invariably white, though the specimen may be of any color, 
and may be best seen by artificial light. This chatoyanc}', when 
marked, gives the asteria, or star stone, also known as the star ruby or 




Fig. 6. 
CORUNDUM CRYSTALS. 

Ceylon. 

Specimen No. 81«1, U.S.N.M. 



star sapphire, as the case may be. Should the gem assume a tibrous 
texture, the chato3"ancy affords the " cat's-eye " ray. 

Corundum is associated with crystalline rocks as granular limestone 
or dolomite, gneiss, granite, mica slate, and chlorite slate. The finest 
sapphires are usually obtained from the IxhIs of rivers, either in modi- 
fied h(\\ag()ii!d i)risms or in roll(>d mass(>s, accompanied by grains of 
magnetic iron ore, and several species of gems. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 499 

The best rubies come from the mines of Upper Riinna. in an area 
about HO miles sijuare of which ]Mo(>x)k is the center. The rubies are 
found in i)lace in crvstalline limestone; occurring- also in o-em-l>earino- 
o-ra\el and in the soil of the hillsides. A similar hx-ality exists in the 
marble hills of Saovin. 1»» miles north of Mandalay. Rul>y miii(>s iiave 
also been worked at Ja*;dalak, near Kabul, Afghaidstan. Individuals 
occur near Bilin in Bohemia and in the sands of the Expaill}' River 
in Auvergne. Blue sapphires are broui>-lit from Ceylon. Corundum 
occurs in the Carnatic, on the Malabar coast, in the territoi'ies of A\a, 
and elscnvhere in the East; also near Canton, China. At St. Gotthard, 
it occurs of a red or blue tinge in dolomite, and near Mozzo in the 
Piedmont in white compact feldspar. Adamantine spar is met with 
in large, coarse, hexagonal pyramids on the Malabar coast and in Gelli- 
vara, Sweden. 

The great corundum region of the United States extends from the 
Virginia line through North and South Carolina, across Georgia and 
into Alal)ania. Numerous localities are known in the crystalline rocks 
of the region, especially in Madison, Buncombe, Haywood, Jackson, 
Macon, and Clay counties, North Carolina. Quite recently rubies, 
rivaling those from Burma in color, have been found in the Cowee dis- 
trict of North Carolina. In variety of color the North Carolina corun- 
dum excels; it is gray, green, rose, ruby, emei'ald, sapphire to dai'k 
])lue, violet, amethystine, brown, 3"ellow of all shades, and colorless. 
Fine gem sapphires are found on bars in the Upper ^Missouri River 
near Helena, Montana. They are most abundant at Eldorado liiir. 
Frenchman's Bar, and Yogo Gulch, where they occui- as ])eb})les more 
or less rolled. Corundum has been found in place in granite and tra- 
chN'te rock in Fergus County, Montana. The Montana specimens 
rarely exceed one-fourtli to one-half inch in length and range in color 
from light green, light blue, steel blue, bluish red, light red, and inter- 
mediate shades; fre({uently the colors mentioned will ai)pear red or 
assume a reddish tinge ])y aititicial light. They are usually dichroic 
and often blue in one direction and red in another. 

CROCIDOLITE. 

CA'I-'s-HVK — IKiKlt's-KYE. 

Crocidolite, from /cpo/cij, woof, in allusion to its libi'ous structuie, 
is a fibrous, asbestus-like mineral, having a hardness of 4 and a specific 
gravity of 3.26. Its color varies from gold yellow to yellowish brown, 
indigo to greenish ])lue, leek green, and dull red. Crocidolite often 
contains a siliceous base, usualh' a ferruginous quartz, and when cut 
cal)Ochon v/ith a high summit and the longer diameter of the oval at 
right angles to the direction of the libers of which the mineral is made 
up, will give the "cat's-e3'e" ray. The gem is also called ''tiger's- 



500 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSP^UM, liXX). 

eye." C'rocidolito contiiins in 100 parts: Silica, 51; ii-on oxides, 84; 
soda, 7; iiiao-nosia, 2; Avater, 3. 

The ])est specimens occur in Gri(iualand and the Oranj^e River 
country, South Africa. These are essentially (juartz, pseudoniorphous 
after crocidolite, and have a hardness of about 7 and a specific gravity 
of 3.2. (Plate 2.) 

DAMOURITE. 

This mineral is one of the micas and usuallj'^ results from the altera- 
tion of some other mineral. It is of little use as a gem. Practical Ij'^, 
the oidy locality at which the mineral is so used is Stoncham, Maine, 
where a green and red damourite, altered from topaz, has been cut 
into trinkets. 

DATOLITE. 

Datolite is another of the mineralogical gems. Its hardness is 5; 
specific gravity, 2.98; color, white, creamy, grajnsh, pale green, yel- 
lowish, reddish, or amethystine. It occurs in small, glass}^ crystals 
and massive, often having a i-adiating structure. 

One hundred parts contain: Silica, 37.7; boric acid, 21.8; lime, 
31.0; water, 5.6. 

DIAMOND. 

The diamond is the hardest of gems; is the only one that is com- 
bustible; is the most highly refractive, and surpasses all others in the 
propert}^ of dispersing light — that is, dividing light into colored raA's, 
causing that peculiar flash of prismatic hues called its jire. The dia- 
mond crystallizes in the isometric system, usually in octahedrons, or 
combinations of octahedron, cube, dodecahedron, and tetrahedron, the 
crystals having their faces commonly curved. The cleavage of the 
diamond is highly perfect and parallel to the octahedral faces. The 
luster, especially of artificial faces, is peculiarl}' ])rilliant and is .superior 
to that of any other gem. The remarkable brillianc}^ of the diamond 
residts in part from the total reflection of light from its internal faces 
when the incident ray strikes it at an angle of a little more than 21 
degrees. The stone also refracts light strongh'. To the refractive 
and dispersive power of the diamond are due the flash of colors or fire, 
characteristic of the stone, the colorless specimens exhibiting it to the 
greatest degree, the colored to the least, or not at all. 

The range of color of the diamond is extensive, including nearly all 
the prismatic hues. The whites, yellows, and browns, perhaps, att'ord 
the greatest number of shades and arc the most numerous. Next to 
these, for colored specimens, the greens, including all shades, are most 
plentiful; the pure grass-green and emerald-colored stones are, how- 
ever, very rare, as, indeed, are all the strongly colored specimens. 
Red stones of strong, rich, deep tints ai"e extremely j-are; so, too, are 
the garnet, hyacinth, rose-red, peach-blossom, and lilac colored speci- 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Tassin 



Plate 2. 




Crocidolite in Quartz. 

GriciiiaUuiil \\e>t. Smitli Africa. 
Specimen Nu. -ITlOo. U.S.X.M. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 501 

mens. Practically all of the l)luc .stoiios known have ])eeii i'oinul in 
India, and their occurrence i.s as rare as the red. (Unnanion, brown, 
V)lack, milky, and opalescent stones are occasionally met with. Pure 
colorless diamonds without a flaw or tint of any kind are more lare 
than is generally supposed. 

The specific gravity of the diamond is 3.52; hardness, 10; crystalli- 
zation, isometric; cleavage, octahedral and perfect; refraction simple, 
with an index of 2.J:3*J; a high dispersive power; luster, brilliant 
adamantine; is combustible though infusible; positively electric ]\y 
friction; a nonconductor of electricit}^; is phosphorescent; does not 
polarize light, and consists essentially of carbon. 

Three forms of the diamond are recognized: First, crystallized, the 
one employed in jewelry; second, crystalline, or imperfectl}^ crystal- 
lized, having a hardness greater than that of the crystals and known 
as bort; this term is applied also to chips, diamond waste, and stones 
unsuited for cutting; third, an impure kind called carbonado; this is 
an opaque, steel gray to black, amorphous variet}-, without cleavage. 

Diamonds and all other gems are rated hy the carat. The term carat 
is derived from the name of certain small leguminous seeds which, 
when dry, are quite constant in weight. The lirilliant, glossy, scarlet 
and black seed of Ahrus pecatorlus weighs about 2 grains, and was 
early used in India for weighing gems. An English carat is e((ual to 
3.1683+ grains, commonly reckoned as 3.17 grains troy, hence there 
are 151i carats in an P^nglish troy ounce. Reckoning the value in the 
metric system, the weight of a standard carat will ])e 0.205 grams. 
The carat is subdivided into halves, quarters, eighths, sixteenths, 
thirty-seconds, and sixty-fourths. A quarter carat is called a grain. 
This is a ''diamond" grain, not a troy grain, and is but 0.7925 of a 
true grain. In diamonds, perfectly white stones or decided tints of 
red, rose, greea, or blue are most highly prized. Fine cinnamon, sal- 
mon, l)rown, black, or yellow stones are also much esteemed. When 
flawdess and without tint of any kind, they are termed ''first water." 
If they possess a steely-blue color they are called " blue white." It is 
impossible to estimate the value of a diamond by its weight. Color, 
brilliancy, cut, and general perfection of the stone are all to })e con- 
sidered. Of two stones, both flawless and weighing 10 carats, one may 
be worth |6o0 and the other 112,000. Ofl'-colored or defective stones 
may sell at $-10 to $75 a carat regardless of size, while the value of an 
ordinary good water stone increases in an increasing ratio with its 
weight up to about 20 carats, beyond which no rule holds good. 
Exceptionally perfect stones have no fixed value, the price dei)ending 
upon the purity and brilliance of the stone. 

Some diamonds are celebrated for their size, others for the interest- 
ing legends connected Avith them. Among the more interesting of 
these celebrated diamonds are the "Regent" or "Pitt" diamond, 



502 ^ REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

wciohing 136|| carats, the finest large diamond in the world. It 
was discovered in India in 1701, and weighed 110 carats in the rough. 
The finest bkie diamond is the ''Hope," an ahnost sapphire-blue stone 
weighing Hi carats, valued at =£18,000. The " Dresden Green" is the 
finest green diamond, a pear-shaped 18^ carat brilliant. The " Orloff" 
is a 198-carat stone in the scepter of the Emperor of Russia, The 
Russian treasury also contains the "Shah," an 86-carat stone. The 
"Koh-i-Nur" or "mountain of light," which weighed, when first 
brought to England, 180yV carats, but was reduced by recutting in 1852 
to lOO^V carats, is among the English crown jewels. The "Victoria," 
a Cape diamond weighing 457^ carats in the rough and 180 carats cut, 
is valued at £200,000, and is perhaps the largest brilliant in the world. 
The largest diamond in America, and the finest yellow diamond in the 
world, is the "Tiffan}^" diamond, a flawless double-cut brilliant of a 
rich orange-yellow color. It was found in South Africa, weighs 125f 
carats, and is valued at $100,000. 

For a full discussion and history of the more important stones above 
100 carats in weight, as well as of many others, see Streeter's Great 
Diamonds of the World. 

The diamond occurs in alluvial deposits of gravel, sand, or clay, 
associated with quartz, gold, platinum, zircon, rutile hematite, ilmenite, 
chrysober}^, topaz, corundum, garnet, etc., the associated minerals 
being those common in granite rocks or granitic veins. It is found 
also in quartzose conglomerates, in peridotite veins in gneiss, and in an 
eruptive pegmatite. 

Before the discovery of the Brazilian mines all diamonds were 
brought from India and Borneo. In India the diamond is met with at 
three principal localities. The first is in southern India, in the Madras 
Presidency, and embraces the districts of Kadapah, Bellary, Karnul, 
Kistna, and Godavari. This region includes the famous "Golconda" 
district, the name, however, being not that of a mine, but merely the 
general term for the market where diamonds were bought and sold. 
The second locality is farther north and includes a large tract between 
^he Mahanadi and Godavari rivers; it embraces Sarnbalpui- and 
Waigarh, 80 miles southeast of Nagpur as well as portions of the 
province of (3hutia Nagpur. The third region is in Bundelkhand, in 
central India, the principal working being near the city of Panna. 
The Indian diamonds were obtained in part from alluvial deposits and 
in part from a quartzose conglomerate; at Panna this conglomerate 
appears to be largelj'^ made up of fragments of a lower sandstone which 
it has been suggested may represent the original matrix. The yield 
of the Indian mines, once so large, is at present very small. 

Borneo produces only about 3,000 carats annually. The principal 
locality is in the basin of the Kapoeas River on the west side of the 
Ratoos Mountain near the town of Pontianak. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 503 

The diamond deposits of Brazil were discovered in 1728 and were at 
one time very productive, although the 3Meld is at present small. Near 
Diamantina in ]VIinas Geraes the diamonds are obtained in part from 
river washings and in part from prairie washings. The river deposits 
consist of rolled quartz pebbles, mixed with or united by a ferrugi- 
nous clay which rests usually on talcose clays. The more common 
associated minerals are rutile, hematite, ilmenite, quartz, k3'anite, 
tourmaline, gold, garnet, zircon, etc. In the prairie washings the 
diamonds occur in a conglomerate consisting of quartz fragments 
covered with a thin lied of sand or earth. This deposit affords the 
finest stones. Other Brazilian localities are those of Bagagem, at 
which place a 247^ carat stone was found, and at Abaethe, Minas 
Geraes. In Bahia diamonds are found at Lencaes; along- the river 
Cacholira, especially at Surua and Sinorca; they occur also on the 
Salobro and other branches of the Pardo River. 

Derby, ^ in a recent paper on the occurrence of diamonds in Brazil, 
says that for the question of genesis the most significant of the Bra- 
zilian localities is that of Sao Joao de Chapada, near Diamantina. The 
diamonds occur here in thoroughly decomposed material, no fresh 
rock being found. He regards the various claj's as representing a 
group of phyllites, of varied character, of principally, if not exclu- 
siveh', clastic origin threaded with dikes of pegmatite, the clastic 
origin of the schists being indicated by the worn character of the 
zircons found in the clay derived from them. The diamond t^treaks 
appeared to Derb}^ to contain distinct bands composed in part of 
quartz with plates of hematite, and these bands, he suggests, may be 
pegmatite dikes. The primary tourmaline and zircon and the sec- 
ondar}^ hematite and rutile found in the heavy residue after washing 
the cla}' are supposed to have originated in the pegmatite, the hema- 
tite, octahedrite, and rutile having formed from the original iron and 
titanium minerals now gone. The staurolite and kyanite, found in 
the heavy residue, are supposed to have come from the schists where 
they may have formed as a result of contact metamorphism induced 
by the intrusive pegmatyte. The diamonds have come from the schist 
along the borders of the pegmatite dikes and not from the dikes 
themselves; that is, he regards it possible that the diamond is a prod- 
uct of contact-metamorphism. 

By far the greatest portion of diamonds now obtained come from 
South Africa, their discovery dating from 1867. The diamond work- 
ings are of two kinds, river diggings and dry diggings. The river 
diggings are in the gravel of the Vaal River from Potchefstroom down 
to its junction with the Orange River, and along the latter as far as 
Hopetown, the principal workings being along the Vaal between Klip 

* Brazilian evidence on the genesis of the diamond, Journal of Geology, VI, 1898, 
pp. 121-146. 

NAT MUS 1900 35 



504 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Drift and its junction with the Hart River. The dr}' diggings are 
chiefly in Griqualand-West, south of the Vaal River, on the border of 
the Orange Free State, about 640 miles northeast of Cape Town. There 
are here a number of limited areas approximate!}' spherical or oval in 
form, with an average diameter of some 300 yards, the entire produc- 
tive area being all within a circle having a radius of about 2 miles. 
These mines were originally worked as individual claims, but they are 
now all consolidated in one gigantic monopoly which practically con- 
trols the diamond output of the world. Some idea of the enormous 
output of the region ma^' be gained from the statement that from 




DIAMOND CRYSTALS. 

Kimberly mines, South Africa. 

Specimen No. 84799, U.S.N.M. 



1867 to 1887 over 33,000,000 carats, or more than 6i tons of diamonds 
have been taken out, valued in the rough at $225,000,000, and after 
cutting at $450,000,000. 

At the Kimberl}' mines the diamantiferous area is inclosed in a wall 
of nearly horizontal l)lack carboniferous shale. The upper portion of 
the deposit consists of a f ria])le mass of pale yellow color, called the 
"yellow ground." Below the reach of atmospheric influences the rock 
is more firm and of a bluish green color; it is called the " blue ground. " 
This consists essentiallv of a serpentinous breccia inclosing fragments 
of carbonaceous shale, ])ronzite, diallage, garnet, magnetite, etc. The 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 505 

diamonds are rather abundantly di,stri])uted through the nia.s.s, often 
to the amount of four to six to the cubic 3'ard. These areas are believed 
to be volcanic pipes, and the occurrence of the diamonds is obviously 
connected with the igneous intrusive, either being formed by the action 
of heat upon the carbonaceous shales, or being brought up from under- 
lying rocks. 

In this connection De Launay ' treats of the occurrence and origin 
of the Cape diamonds as follows: He describes the serpentine of the 
Kim])er1y mines as being derived from a peridotite determined as a 
picrite-porphyry. Mixed with the serpentine are abundant fragments 
of various rocks, so that many specimens are of the nature of a contact- 
breccia. The serpentine bodies occur as pipes extending downward 
in a nearly vertical direction to an unknown depth. In following the 
volcanic pipes down it has been proved that each one passes through 
.several formations. At the surface the inclosing rocks are carbo- 
naceous shales, and at one time it was believed that the crystallized 
carbon was primarily derived from these shales. Underlying these 
shales is a bed of diabase. The serpentine at this horizon still con- 
tained diamonds. Below the diabase horizon are quartzites, through 
which the miners are now engaged in working. According to De 
Launay. the inclosing terranes have had no influence on either the 
quantity or quality of the diamonds. He therefore holds that the 
diamonds have comfe from below with the peridotite-breccia and that 
the diamonds did not originate in the Upper Carbonaceous shales. He 
believes that since the cavities which contain the serpentine pipes are 
in the nature of volcanic chimneys, water, penetrating to the contact 
of a molten metallic bath charged with various carl)urets, caused the 
sudden formation of carburets of hydrogen, and by their explosion 
the opening of the volcanic chinmeys. The water produced the scori- 
fication of the molten peridotite magma, and b}' the compression thus 
exercised on the carbon, the crystallization of the diamonds. Finally 
water accompanied the eruption of the peridotite and caused its ser- 
pentinization. 

Diamonds are mined in the Urals, where they were discovered in 
1829. The}' occur in the gold washings of the detritus along the Adolf- 
skoi Creek, near Bisersk. and elsewhere along the western declivity of 
the Uralian range. In Australia they are found in the alluvial of the 
Cudgegong River, near Mudgee, and in the valley of the Horton River, 
in the Bingera district of New South Wales. 

A few crystals have been occasionally met with in the United States 
in Rutherfor^^, Franklin, Mitchell, and McDowell counties, Tsorth 
Carolina: in Hall County, Georgia: in Kentucky, Ohio. Wisconsin, 
Colorado, and Idaho, and in the ])lacers of P^ldorado, Amador, Nevada, 



^ Les Diamants du Cap, Paris, 1897. 



506 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Butte, Trinity, and Del Norte counties, California. In 1S56 the 
Dewey diamond, weighing when cut 11^ carats, was found at Man- 
chester, near Richmond, Virginia. 

DIASPORE. 

The smallness of the crystals, together with their brittleness, makes 
this mineral of little use as a gem. Its hardness is 6.5 to 7. Specific 
gravity, 3.3 to 3.5. Luster, brilliant; pearly on cleavage face. Color, 
grayish white, greenish gray, hair brown, topaz to fawn 3'ellow, and 
colorless; occasionally violet blue in onedirection, plum blue in another, 
and pale asparagus green in a third. Diaspore occurs foliated and 
massive and in orthorhombic prismatic crystals; usually small, thin, 
and flattened. The mineral is commonly found with corundum or 
emery in dolomite, chlorite schist, and other crystalline rocks. Per- 
haps the finest diaspores are those found near Unionville, Chester 
County, Pennsylvania. At this locality crystals have been found meas- 
uring from i to li inches in length and i inch in thickness. 

One hundred parts contain: Alumina, 85.1; water, 14.9. 

DIOPSIDE. 

Diopside is occasionally cut as a gem. It is a variety of pyroxene 
occurring in monoclinic crystals of a prismatic habit. Its hardness is 
about 6. Specific gravity, 3.2 to 3.38. Luster,- vitreous. Color, 
white, of several shades, pale green to dark green and nearly black. A 
varietj' containing chromium is often of a fine bright-green color. 

Pyroxene is a common mineral in crystalline limestone and dolomite, 
serpentine, and eruptive rocks; occurs also in granitic rocks and 
metamorphic schists. The variety diopside occurs commonly in lime- 
stones and serpentines. A famous locality is on the Mussa Alp, in the 
Piedmont, where it occurs in veins, traversing serpentine, associated 
with garnet. A similar locality is at Traversella, in the Tyrol. Fine 
gem diopside occurs also at Dekalb, New York. 

One hundred parts contain: Silica, 55.6; lime, 25.9; magnesia, 18.5. 
Iron is usually present in small amounts, and chromium is occasionally 
observed. 

DIOPTASE. 

ACHIRITE — CONGO EMERALD. 

Dioptase is a silicate of copper crystallizing, commonly in prismatic 
forms, in the rhombohedral division of the hexagonal system. Its 
hardness is 5 ; brittle. Specific gravity, 3. 28 to 3, 35. Luster, vitreous. 
Color, rich emerald green. Transparent to subtransi./^ent. Double 
refraction, strong. Cleavage, rhombohedral and perfect. Pj'roelectric. 

Dioptase is limited in its use as a gem ]>y its softness and brittleness. 
It occurs in druses and crystalline aggregates on quartz in seams of a 
compact limestone near Altyn-Tube, in the Kirghese Steppes, whence 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 507 

it was first broiig-ht ])v u Bucharian morchant, Achir Mahmed, after 
whom it was called Achirite. Fine crA'stals are found at Mindouli, 
near Comba, the French Congo, whence the name Congo emerald. 
Brilliant crystals are found at the copper mines near Clifton, Graham 
County, Arizona. 

One hundred parts contain: Copper oxide. 50.4; silica. 38.2; water, 
11.4. 

DUMORTIERITE. 

Dumortierite occurs commonly in tilu'ous to columnar aggregates 
and massive; rarely in distinct orthorhombic crystals. Luster, vitre- 
ous. Hardness, 7. Specific gravity. 3.26. Color, strong smalt blue 
to greenish blue; strongly pleochroic. being colorless, reddish violet, 
and deep ultramarine in the several directions. The fibrous kinds, 
when cut cabochon with sufficiently high summits, will often aiford the 
" cat's-eye " ray. In composition the mineral is essentially a basic 
aluminum silicate, containing in 100 parts: Silica, 30.6; alumina, 69.1:. 

ENSTATITE. 

BROXZITE HYPERSTHENE. 

Enstatite, bronzite, and hypersthene are orthorhomliic pyroxenes 
occurring commonly crystalline, massive, fibrous, lamellar, or foliated. 
Their hardness does not exceed 6; their specific gravity. 3.. 5. and their 
colors include the various shades of green, gra}', brown, white, and 
black. When cut cabochon across the fibers they will all afl'ord the 
" cat's-eye-' ray. 

Enstatite is yellowish, grayish, or greenish white; has a vitreous to 
pearly luster; a specific gravity, of 3.10 to 3.13; a hardness of 5.5, and 
is someAvhat l)rittle. In composition it is essentially a magnesian sili- 
cate containing in 100 parts: Silica, 60; magnesia, 10. 

Bronzite is grayish to olive green and brown in color; has an ada- 
mantine pearly to a metalloidal or bronze-like luster; a specific gravity 
of 3.1 to 3.3, and a hardness of 5.5. In composition it is an enstatite, 
having its magnesium in part replaced by iron. Bronzite and enstatite 
are common constituents of peridotites and the serpentines derived 
from them; occurring also in the crystalline schists. 

HyyerstKene is dark ])rownish green, grayish black, greenish black, 
and pinchbeck brown, occasionally marked ^^\ a play of color resulting 
from included labradorite. Luster, pearly on cleavage face and fre- 
quently exhibiting a peculiar metalloidal efl'ect; hardness, 6; specific 
gravity, 3.1 to 3.5. 

Hypersthene, associated with la))radorite, is common in certain 
granular eruptive rocks, as noryte and gabbro. Iji composition it is 
analogous to an enstatite in which the magnesium has in part been 
replaced by iron, often in the proportion of 1: 1. 



508 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

EPIDOTE. 



Epidote occurs in nionoclinic crystals, commonly prismatic and in 
fibrous to granular masses having a hardness of 6 to T. a specific 
gravity of 3.2 to 5, and a vitreous luster, inclining to pearly or 
resinous on certain faces. Ordinarily the color is a peculiar yellow- 
ish green, seldom seen in other minerals; from this it may pass into 
light and dark shades, black on one side and brown on the other; red, 
yellow, gray, and colorless varieties also occur. Epidote is doubly 
refracting and strongly pleochroic, showing a green, a brown, and a 
yellow as viewed in the several directions. 

Thulite is a closely related mineral occurring in orthorhombic forms 
and in columnar to compact masses, having a specific gravity of 3.124 
and a hardness of about 6.5. Its color varies from a peach-blossom 
red to rose red; strongly pleochroic, showing a light rose, a deep rose, 
and a yellow color in the different directions. 

Epidote is common in many crystalline rocks, as syenite, gneiss, 
schist, and serpentine. It is sometimes found in geodes in trap, and 
also in sandstone adjoining trap dikes, as a result of contact metamor- 
phism. It occasionally forms with quartz an epidote rock, and is 
sometimes found in nodules in the different quartz rocks or altered 
sandstones. 

One hundred parts contain, approximately: Silica, 38; alumina, 22; 
ferric oxide, 15; lime, 23; water, 2. 

EUCLASE. 

Euclase, named bj^ Hauy from €v^ easily, and kXcxco, to break, 
though susceptible of a high polish, is rareh' used as a gem stone 
because of its brittleness. It varies in color from pale mountain green 
to indigo blue and white. Its hardness is 7.5, and its specific gravity 
about 3.1. The mineral crj^stallizes in the nionoclinic system and 
exhibits tj'ichroism. 

One hundred parts contain, approximately: Silica, 41.2: alumina, 
35.2; glucina, 17.4; water, 6.2. 

Euclase occurs in the mining district of Villa Rica, Minas Geraes, 
Brazil, associated with topaz in a chloritic schist. It is found also in 
the auriferous sands of the Orenburg district of the southern Urals, 
associated with topaz, corundum, kyanite, rutile, etc. 

FLUORITE. 

CHLOROPHANE. 

Fluorite crystallizes in the isometric system, commonly in cubes; 
occurring also massive and graiuilar, coarse or fine. The mineral has 
a perfect octahedral cleavage; a conchoidal to splintery fracture; is 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 509 

brittle; has a hardness of -i, a specitie gravity of 3.18, and a highly 
vitreous luster. The color range is extensive, including white, 3'ellow, 
green, violet, sky and amethystine blue, brown, wine yellow, rose red, 
crimson, and pink. It sometimes presents a ])luish fluorescence, and 
is phosphorescent when heated gently. This is especially character- 
istic of the variety chlorophane, or cobra stone, which emits a bright 
emerald-green light on a comparatively low rise of temperature. 

Fluorite, though too soft for continuous wear, is occasionally cut as 
a gem, chiefly for collectors' use, and a massive variety occurring in 
the north of England is not infrequenth^ worked up into trinkets, 
paper weights, vases, and other ornaments. 

Fluorite occurs in veins and beds in gneiss, mica slate, clay slate, 
limestone, and sandstone. 

One hundred parts contain: Calcium, 51.3; fluorine, -18.7. 

GADOLINITE. 

Gadolinite, a complex silicate of yttrium and other earths, occurs 
usually massive, rarely in monoclinic crystals. Its hardness is 6.5; 
specific gravit3% 4.35; color, black, of several shades. The mineral 
affords velvety black, opaque gems and is cut for collectors' use only. 

GARNET. 

The garnet includes several varieties, which are distinguishable by 
their differences in composition and in part b}- their colors. The 
mineral crystallizes in the isometric system, commonly in dodecahe- 
drons and trisoctahedrons and derived forms. It is singly refracting 
and monochroic; has a vitreous to resinous luster, and varies in hard- 
ness and specific gravit3% according to the variety, from 6.5 to 7.5 and 
3.15 to 4.3, respectively. 

In composition garnet is a silicate of different bases — alumina, lime, 
magnesia, chrome, iron, manganese, and titanium. There are three 
prominent groups, with several subdivisions under each, many of 
these passing into each other. They are: 

I. Aluminum garnet: 

Grossularite — Lime-aluminum garnet. 
Pyrope — Magnesium-aluminum garnet. 
Almandite — Iron-aluminum garnet. 
Spessartite — Manganese-aluminum garnet. 
II. Iron garnet: 

Andradite — Lime-iron garnet. 
III. Chromium garnet: 

Ouvarovite— Lime-chrome garnet. 

The lime-aluminum garnet has a hardness of 7, a specific gravity of 
3.55 to 3.66, and its color range includes white, pale green, amber, 
honey, wine, and brownish yellow, cinnamon brown, and pale rose red. 
The several varieties are: Esf<onitc^ eijinamon intone, ov hyacinth. The 



510 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



kind of thi.s variety more commonly used as a gem includes the clear 
cinnamon brown to a deep gold tinged with brown specimens. Its 
hardness is 7 and its specific gravity 3.6. Grostsularite, the pale 
green, yellow to nearly white, pale pink, reddish orange, and brown 
kinds. Homanzovite is brown. Wlhilte is yellowish green to green- 
ish white in color. Topazolite is topaz to citrine yellow. Succinite 
is an amber-colored kind. 

The. principal magnesian garnet is the i^V'^op'^-, meaning "fire-like," 
a deep blood red to nearl}" black stone, prized as a gem. It is among 
the hardest of the garnets, ranking 7.5 in the scale. Its specific 
gravity lies between 3.7 and 3.8. (Fig. 7.) 

The almandite, or carhuncle, and rhodolite are iron-aluminum gar- 
nets. Almandite varies in color from cherry red, blood red to deep 




GARNET CRYSTAL AND PEBBLES OF FYKOPE. 
Specimen No. 82575. U.S.N.M. 



red of several tints, occasionally assuming an orange hue by artificial 
light. The color of the rhodolite lies between a violet purple and a 
brownish red. These varieties have a hardness of about 7.5, with a 
specific gravity seldom less than 4, and occasionally as high as -1,3. 
Both are prized as gems. 

Sjyeiisartite is a manganese aluminum garnet, varying in specific 
gravity from 3.7 to 4.3, and has a hardness of about 7. The color 
varies from a reddish brown, dark hj^acinth red, sometimes with a 
tinge of violet, to orange red. It often afi'ords fine gems. 

The calcium-iron garnet varies in specific gravity between 3.6 and 4 
and in hardness from 5 to 7. The group includes a number of varie- 
ties, varying widely in color and other respects, the more important 



CA.TALOQUE OF GEMS. 511 

of which are: Andradrte, a yellow or orange-brown variety. Deman- 
toid or Uralian emerald^ a grass-green, emerald-green, or brownish- 
green stone having a brilliant luster, and when cut exhibiting consid- 
erable lire, especially by artificial light. It is somewhat soft, having 
a hardness of about 5. Coloi}hoiiite is a brownish-black garnet, char- 
acterized bv a resinous luster. Melanite is a black to yellow-brown 
kind. 

The lime-chrome garnet, ouvarovite, is almost invariablj^ a hue 
emerald green, and is harder than any of the other varieties, ranking 
nearly 8 in the scale. 

In the trade the lighter-colored clear garnets are often called hya- 
cinth. The 3^ellowish is thejacinta/ a yellowish-red, the guarnaccino 
or vermeiUe; the red with a tinge of violet, 7'uhino-di-rocca or grenat 
syriam. The deep clear red is the true precious garnet and is often 
called carhimcle. 

Garnet is common in mica schist, hornblende and chlorite schist, 
gneiss, syenitic gneiss, and granite, occurring also in limestone, ser- 
pentine, and vokanic rocks. The garnet of granite, gneiss, mica 
schist, and similar rocks is commonly almandite. Grossula.'ite is com- 
mon in limestones and crystalline schists. Pyrope belongs especially 
to peridotites and the serpentines derived from them; occurs also in 
basalts. Spessartite occurs in granitic rocks, in quartzite, in certain 
schists, and in some rhyolytes. Iron garnets are common in eruptive 
rocks, occurring also as a product of contact metamorphism. Deman- 
toid occurs in serpentine. The chrome garnets belong particularly 
with the chromite in serpentine; found also in granular limestone. 

GOTHITE. 

A hydrated oxide of iron, which, when occurring in acicular crystals 
in limj^id quartz, is often cut into gems. The color of the gothite is 
yellowish, reddish, and blackish brown. 

GOLD. 

Gold, in crystals, filiform, reticulated, and arborescent shapes, or in 
nuggets, is frequenth' worn as a jewel. Gold penetrating white, black, 
rose, and amethystine quartz is worked into jewelry of all sorts, the 
designs often being elaborate. 

GYPSUM. 

ALABASTER — SATIN SPA R — SELEX ITE. 

Gypsum occurs in monoclinic crj'stals and massive. It has a hard- 
ness of 2, a specific gravity of 2.3, and is usually white in color, some- 
times gray, flesh red, honey, and ocher yellow, l^lue, brown, and black. 
Three varieties are recognized. 1. Selenite^ occurring either in dis- 
tinct ci'ystals or broad folia, which are transparent throughout. It is 



512 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

not used as a gem. 2. Satin spai\ a fine fibrous variety having the 
pearly opalescence of moonstone and affording the "cat's-eye" raj' 
when cut cabochon. Though soft, it is frequently worked up into 
beads, pins, and other ornaments. 3. Alabaster^ a fine-grained, white 
or delicately clouded variety. It is worked up into carvings, statuettes* 
and other ornamental objects. 

Gypsum often forms extensive beds in connection with various 
stratified rocks, especially limestones and marlytes; found also in crys- 
talline rocks, about the fumaroles of volcanoes, and is deposited on the 
evaporation of sea water and brines, in which it exists in solution. 

One hundred parts contain: Sulphuric acid, 46.51; lime, 32.56; water, 
20.93. 

HEMATITE— CHROMIC IRON— ILMENITE. 

The compact, fibrous kinds of hematite are cut into beads, intaglios, 
charms, and other ornaments. The color is iron black to steel gray; 
luster metallic and opalescent; hardness 6; specific gravity -1.5 to 5.3. 
One hundred parts contain: Iron, 70; oxygen, 30. 

Chromic iron and ilmenite have a use similar to that of hematite. 
The hardness, specific gravity, and color of both are also near that 
of hematite. Chromic iron contains: Iron, 38; chrome, 62. Ilme- 
nite consists essentially of the oxides of iron and titanium in varying 
proportions. 

HORNBLENDE. 

The use of hornblende as a gem is limited to those specimens found 
penetrating liquid quartz. As such, especialh" when the hornblende 
is in delicate acicular crystals, interlaced and penetrating the quartz in 
ever}' direction, it affords very beautiful gems. 

lOLITE. 

DICHROTTE SAPHIR d'eAU — WATER SAPPHIRE. 

lolite, called also dichroite and saphir d'eau, or water sapphire, is 
occasionall}' used as a gem. It occurs in orthorhombic crvstals of a 
prismatic habit, and massive, compact. The hardness is greater than 
that of quartz ; its specific gravity is 2. 60 to 2. QQ^ and its luster vitre- 
ous. The colors are the various shades of blue, commonlj^ a smoky 
blue, either light or dark. Its pleochroism is strongl}' marked, the 
crystals presenting different shades of blue, bluish white, and yellow- 
ish gray, according to the direction in which the}' are viewed; hence 
the name dichroite, meaning two colored. 

lolite occurs in granite, gneiss, chloritic and talcose schists, and 
allied rocks; also in igneous rocks, and as a contact mineral in connec- 
tion with eruptive dikes, as in slates adjoining granite. The saphir 
d'eau occurs in small rolled masses of a strong blue color in the alluvial 
deposits of Ceylon. The mineral alters readily on exposure, so that it 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 513 

is most commonly found in an altered condition or inclosed in altered 

iolite. 

One hundred parts contain: Silica, -±9.6; alumina, 33.8; magnesia, 
8.7; oxide of iron, 7.9. 

ILVAITE. 

Ilvaito has little value as a gem. but is occasionalh^ used for the let- 
ter I in sentimental jewelry. It is iron black in color; has a hardness 
of 6; a specific gravity of 3.99,-and a submetallic luster. The mineral 
crystallizes in the orthorhombic system, commonly in prisms, also 
occurring columnar or compact massive. 

One hundred parts contain: Silica, 29.3; oxides of iron, 54.8: lime, 
13.7; water, 2.2. 

ISOPYRE. 

Occurs in compact masses with cleavage. Its color is grayish or 
velvet black to dark green, occasionally spotted red like heliotrope 
and then used as a gem. Its hardness is 6 to 6.5; specific gravity, 
2.912; luster, vitreous, and is translucent to opaque. Isopj-re occurs 
in a quartzose granite near Penzance, Cornwall, England, and in a 
breccia near Edinburgh, Scotland. 

The mineral contains in 100 parts: Silica, 47.09; alumma, 13.91; 
iron, 20.07; lime, 15.43; copper, 1.94. 

JADE. 

Jade, as commonly used, is a generic term including various mineral 
substances, as chloro-melanite or jadeite, nephrite, saussurite, pseudo- 
nephrite, of tough, compact texture, and ranging in color from cream 
white to dark green and nearly black. The Asiatic jade is usually 
pale green or bluish white, while that of New Zealand is dark green. 

The term jade includes properly two minerals only — -nejjhrite and 
jadeite. The one is a tough, compact, fine-grained tremolite, a variety 
of amphibole, having a hardness of 6 to 6.5 and a specific gravity of 
2.96 to 3.1. The other is a tough, fibrous foliated to closely compact 
mineral grouped with the pyroxenes. Its hardness is 6.5 to 7 and its 
specific gravity 3.33 to 3.35. 

The lack of brilliancy in jade makes it of little value as an article of 
jewelry, but its great toughness renders it eminently suitable for 
ornamental vases and other carved work displa34ng delicacy of 
workmanship. 

KYANITE. 



Kyanite, when transparent and of a good color, is employed as a gem. 
The name is from Kvavog^ blue, though the mineral affords examples 
of other colors, such as white, gray, green, and black. Disthene is 



514 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

from (Ji-r, twice, and ffBevog^ strong, alluding to its unequal hardness 
and electrical properties in two different directions. 

The mineral occurs commonly in long-bladed triclinic cr3^stals and 
in bladed to sul)librous masses. Hardness, 5 to 7, depending upon the 
direction and crystal face upon which the test is made. Specific 
gravity, 3.56 to 3.67. Luster, vitreous. The color is commonly pale 
blue, often a deeper hue along the center of the blades, also white, 
gray, green, and black; pleochroism strong in colored kinds. 

Kyanite occurs principally in gneiss and muscovite and paragonite 
schist. 

One hundred parts contain: Silica, 37; alumina, 63. 

LABRADORITE. 

Labradorite is one of the feldspars occurring in triclinic crystals 
and cleavable to granular masses. Its hardness is 6; specific gravity, 
2.72; luster, vitreous, passing into pearly, translucent to subtranslu- 
cent; color, gray, brown, or greenish, sometimes colorless and glassy. 
Owing chiefly to a peculiarity in its intimate structure, labradorite, 
especially of the cleavable kinds, often shows a magnificent pla}'^ of 
colors, in which blue and green predominate, while yellow, red, peai'l 
gi'ay, orange, puce, amber, and peach blossom hues are apparent, 
together with a golden and copper schiller. The mineral takes a high 
polish, and, because of its chatoyant reflections, is often very beautiful. 

Labradorite is an essential constituent of various rocks, especiallj- 
the basic kinds, and is usually associated with some member of the 
pyroxene or amphibole groups. Labradoritic massive rocks are most 
common among the Archaean formations. It was brought first from 
the coast of Labrador, hence the name. 

One hundred parts contain: Silica, 53.1; alumina, 30.1; lime, 12.3; 
soda. 4.5. 

LAPIS-LAZULI. 

Lapis-lazuli, long thought to be a simple mineral, consists of a mix- 
ture of a bluish substance (lazurite) with granular calcite, scapolite, 
diopside, amphibole mica, p3a"ite, etc. The richly colored kinds are 
highh^ esteemed for costly vases, mosaics, and other ornamental work. 
Color, rich Berlin or azure blue, violet blue, and greenish blue; occa- 
sionally containing a colorless substance and frequently including brass 
yellow specks of pyrite; these are often so numerous as to produce a 
spangled appearance. Its hardness is 5.5; specific gravity about 2.4; 
luster, vitreous; translucent. 

Lapis-lazuli occurs commonly massive in limestone and in a granitic 
rock. 

In composition it carries in 100 parts: Silica, 31.7; alumina, 26.9; 
soda, 27.3; sulphur 16. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Tassin. 



Plate 3. 




Amazon Stone. 

I'ikes I'uak, Colorado. 

Sf)ecimen No. S1,S13, U.S.N. >r. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 515 

LEPIDOLITE. 

Lithia mica is used to some extent for ornaments, such as ash trajT's, 
dishes, vases, paper weights, etc. The colors range from rose pink 
through a variety of shades of violet gray to yellowish and whitish. 
It occurs in granular masses made up of foliated scales. Hardness 
about 4; specitic gravity, 2.84 to 3. 

MAGNETITE. 

LODESTONE. 

Lodestone, a magnetite that possesses polarity, is worked up into 
charms and worn soleh' for the mystic properties it is supposed to 
possess. Color, iron black; luster, metallic; hardness, 6.4; specific 
gravity, 5. Brittle, opaque, strongly magnetic, and possessing 
polarity. 

Composition: Iron, 72.4; oxygen, 27.6. 

MICROCLINE. 

AMAZONSTONE A V EXTURIXE. 

]\Iicrocline, one of the feldspars, occurs massive and in triclinic 
crystals, resembling those of orthoclase, common feldspar, in habit. 
Its hardness is 6.5; specific gravity, 2.54; cleavage perfect and in two 
directions; luster, vitreous; translucent to opaque, and varying in 
color from white to pale cream yellow, red, and green. 

Two recognized varieties are used either as gems or ornamental 
stones. 1. Amazonstont^ a green-colored microcline. Its color range 
includes the several shades of green, from the palest and most delicate 
to a strong, deep, verdigris green. (Plate 3.) 2. Aveixturine^ consist- 
ing of interlaminatedalbite and microcline, and often including dissem- 
inated scales of hematite or gothite, giving rise to internal yellowish 
or reddish reflections. 

Microcline contains in 100 parts: Silica, 64.7; alumina, 18.4; potash, 
16.9. 

MICROLITE. 

Occasionally crystals of microlite are found that are sufficiently 
transparent to aflord gems ranging in color from cinnamon brown to 
orange red and spinel yellow. The hardness of the mineral is 5.5; 
specitic gravit}", 5.65 to 6.13, greater than that of any other known 
gem, luster, resinous to vitreous, transparent to translucent and 
opaque. 

In composition it is essentially a tantalate of lime. 



516 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

NATROLITE. 

Natrolite is occasionally used for the letter N in sentimental jewelry 
and as a collectors' gem. The mineral occurs in groups of slender, 
prismatic, orthorhombic crystals, in fibrous, radiated, and divergent 
masses, in amygdules having a fibrous structure, and in compact 
masses. Its hardness is 5.5; specific gravity, 2.2; luster, vitreous, 
sometimes inclining to pearly or silky in the fibrous kinds; color, 
white to grayish, yellowish, reddish, and red. 

Natrolite occurs in cavities in amygdaloidal basalt and related igne- 
ous rocks, and in seams in granite, gneiss, and syenite. 

One hundred parts contain: Silica, 47.4; alumina, 26.8; soda, 16.3; 
water, 9.5. 

OBSIDIAN. 

Obsidian is compact volcanic glass. Its specific gravity is 2.25 to 
2.8. The hardness is somewhat less than that of ordinary feldspar. 
The prevalent color of the material is black, but some of it is mottled 
and streaked with brownish red or various shades of brown; sometimes 
in reddish-brown spherules in a gray matrix; also green of several 
shades to light and dark yellow. Certain fibrous specimens will afl'ord 
the cat's-eye ray. 

The kinds used as gems are Known as: Moldavite or hottle stone ^ a 
green-colored obsidian; nmreJcanite or mountain mahogany ^2l red col- 
ored or banded black and brown variety, and Iceland agate^pearlylite^ 
and sjyhaeruUte. 

OLIVINE. 

CHRYSOLITE — PERIDOT — HYALOSIDERITE. 

Olivine crystallizes in the orthorhombic sj'stem; also occurring 
massive; compact or granular; commonly in embedded grains. Its 
hardness is 6.5 to T. Specific gravity, 3.33 to 3.44. Cleavage dis- 
tinct. Fracture, conchoidal. Brittle. Luster, vitreous. Color, 
commonly olive green, sometimes brownish, grayish red, and occa- 
sionally black. Double refraction, strong. Dichroism occasionally 
marked, the peridot giving a straw -yellow and a green image. 

The kinds used as gems are known as: Chrysolite^ j'^ellowish green; 
'peridot or evening emerald^ having an olive pistachio, or leek-green 
color, of a quieter hue than that of the emerald, the approved tint 
being similar to that seen on looking through a delicate green leaf, 
and JtyaJosiderite^ called also JoVs tears^ a highly ferruginous variety 
having a specific gravity as high as 3.57 and a rich olive-green color. 

Olivine is a common constituent of some eruptive rocks; not uncom- 
mon in granular limestone and dolomite; occurring also in certain 
schists and in ore deposits. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 517 

The percentage composition of olivine, though the iron oxide may 
be more or less replaced b}' magnesia, is, approximately: Silica, 41; 
magnesia, 50; iron oxide. 9. 

OCTAHEDRITE. 



Octahedrite crystallizes in the tetragonal s3^stem, commonly on octa- 
hedra. Its hardness is nearly 6, its specific gravity -ii.sa, and its color 
includes the several shades of brown, passing into deep blue or black; 
^sometimes greenish ^^ellow to pale green. Fine blue crystals of this 
mineral from Brazil are so remarkabh^ brilliant as to be mistaken for 
diamonds. 

One hundred parts of octahedrite contain; Titanium, 60; oxygen, 40. 

ODONTOLITE. 

BOXE TURQUOISE — FOSSIL TURQUOISE. 

Odontolite is a fossil ivory or bone, colored sky blue or green by 
phosphate of iron. Tt resembles the turquoise in color, but may read- 
ily be identified by its bony structure. 

OLIGOCI.ASE. 

HELIOLITE SUNSTOXE. 

Oligoclase. one of the feldspars, occurs massive and in triclinic forms 
crystals somewhat rare. Its cleavage is perfect in one direction, less 
so in another. Fracture uneven. Hardness, 6. Specific gravity, 
2.65 to 2.67. Luster, vitreous to somewhat pearly. Color, grayish, 
reddish, greenish, and white to colorless, occasionally having a play 
of color. Aventurine kinds, called either sunstone or heliolite, are of 
a grayish white to reddish gi'ay color, with internal yellowish or I'ed- 
dish reflections proceeding from disseminated crystals or flakes of iron 
oxide. 

Fine transparent oligoclase, affording brilliant gems having a moon- 
stone effect, is found near Bakersville. North Carolina. The ])est 
sunstone is from Christiana fiord, Norway. The same region also affords 
specimens having a magnificent play of color, in which grayish blue, 
orange, and gray, with coppery reflections, are seen. 

Oligoclase occurs in granitic, syenitic, and dioritic rocks. 

One hundred parts contain, approximate v: Silica, 62.3; alumina, 
23.5; soda. U.2. 

OPAL. 

The opal occurs in amorphous masses; sometimes in reniform, 
stalactitic, and tuberose shapes, and encrusting. Its hardness is about 
6.5, occasionally as low as 5.5. The specific gravity varies from 1.9 
to 2.3, commonh' 2.1. Luster, vitreous, frequently subvitreous, 



518 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900, 

often inclining to resinous, and occasionally to pearly. Color, white, 
yellow, red, brown, green, gray (the dark color arising from foreign 
admixtures); sometimes having a brilliant play of colors by reflected 
and refracted light. This play of colors is not due to the presence of 
colored substances as constituents of the mineral, but to a phJ^sical 
condition of the specinicn resulting from a multitude of fissures, the 
sides of which are minutely striated, and which cause a diflraction and 
decomposition of the light which falls upon them. The size of these 
striations and fissures influence the color and its distribution within 
the mineral; occasionally the patches of color are of a uniform size; 
again, the}^ may be irregular. Certain specimens may show a predom- 
inance of one set of colors, as red and orange; others ma}' show chiefly 
green and blue tints. 

There are many varieties of the opal to which specific names have 
been given. The precious opal exhibits a play of delicate colors, 
reflecting now one hue and then another. The harlequin opal presents 
a variegated play of colors on a reddish ground and resembles the fire 
opal. The jire opal presents hyacinth red to honey yellow colors, 
with fire-like reflections, somewhat irised on turning. Gtrasol is a 
bluish white translucent kind, presenting reddish reflections in a 
strong light. Lechosos opal is a name applied to those kinds showing 
deep green flashes of color. Ilydrophane is a whitish or light colored 
opaque kind which becomes transparent when immersed in water. 
Cacliolong is an opaque porcelain, bluish, yellowish, or reddish white 
variety. 6>^a^ «^6«^e is agate -like in structure. c^Tas^op^^ contains sev- 
eral per cent of iron, and is the analogue in opal of jasper in quartz. 
Wood opal is wood silicified by opal; sometimes called llthoxyle when 
showing a woody structure. (Plate 4.) Hyalite, or Mullerh glass, is 
either colorless and pellucid like glass, or a translucent bluish white. 
Moss opjol contains moss-like inclusions of manganese oxide and is the 
analogue in opal of the moss agate in quartz. Tabashee7' is an amor- 
phous opal-like silica deposited within the joints of bamboo; it absorbs 
water and becomes transparent like hj^drophane. 

The opal occurs filling seams, cavities, and fissures in igneous rocks, 
etc. It occurs also embedded in limestone and argillaceous beds. It 
consists essentially of silica in the soluble or gelatinizing condition, 
but often combined with insoluble silica, and is more or less hydrous. 

ORTHOCLASE. 

ADULARIA — AVENTURINE — MOONSTONE — PERTHITE. 

Orthodase, common feldspar, occurs in monoclinic crystals, often 
prismatic in habit, and massive, coarsely cleavage to compact, and 
flint-like or jasper-like. Cleavage perfect in one direction, less so in 
another. Hardness, 6. Specific gravity, 2.4 to 2.6. Luster, vitreous, 
sometimes inclining to pearly on the face of a perfect cleavage, and 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900— Tassir 



Plate 4. 




CATAL(JGUE OF GEMS. 519 

occasionally havino; a satin-like effect or schiller. Color, white: often 
ora}', reddish white. Hesh red, greenish white, and occasionally oreen. 
Transparent to translucent. 

The difference in color, luster, and other physical properties has 
oiven rise to distinct names for several varieties of this mineral, the 
more important of which for use as gems are: Adahiria, a transparent 
or translucent varietj' differing from ordinary orthoclase in present- 
ing, when polished, chatoyant or pearly reflections. The kinds exhib- 
iting this chatoyancy to the greatest degree are known as moon.stonts^ 
and have, as a rule, a specific gravity of 2.58. Aventurlne is less pel- 
lucid and has reddish and yellow internal reflections arising from 
minute scales of occluded minerals.' Siotstone is a similar variety. 
Cassinite is a bluish-green kind, having a pearly luster and more or 
less of an aventurine character. Leelite has a deep flesh-red color, 
with a wax}' luster. Pert lute is a flesh-red feldspar, consisting of 
interlaminated orthoclase and albite, and which often affords l)right 
aventurine reflections. Variolite is a dark-green variety containing 
lighter globular particles; it was so called in allusion to its supposed 
power in preventing and curing smallpox. 

Orthoclase in its several varieties belongs especially to the crystal- 
line rocks, occurring as an essential constituent in granite, gneiss, 
syenite, porphyr}', etc. 

One hundred parts contain: Silica, Q4:.'^\ alumina, 18.4. 

PEGMATITE. t 

GRAPHIC GRANITE. 

Pegmatite consists of feldspar and quartz, in which the quartz, 
•arranged in parallel positions, is so distributed through the feldspar 
as to appear like oriental characters. 

PHENACITE. 

Phenacite crystallizes in the hexagonal system; has a hardness of 8; 
a specific gravity of 2.96; it is colorless, often clouded or milky; also 
straw and wine yellow and cinnamon colored. The clouded kinds are 
dichroic. The colorless transparent kinds exhil)it considerable "" fire," 
especialh' b}' artificial light, and may easily be mistaken for the dia- 
mond, hence the name, from <Peva^^ a deceiver. 

One hundred parts contain: Silica, 54.3; glucina, 4.5.7. 

PORPHYRY. 

The term porphyry, as here used, applies to that class of rocks in 
which the mass of the rock, or groundmass, is so compact and dense 
as to appear practically noncrystalline, and in which are embedded 
large, scattering, more or less perfectly formed crystals, usuallv of 
quartz or feldspar. These crystals being of a different color from the 

NAT Mrs I'.MMi ?,^^ 



520 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

groundniass 5>tancl out in marked contrast. The poi-ph3n'ies are, as a 
rule, hard, tough, and without rift or grain. They may be of several 
shades of color, as green with splashes of white, or a paler green or 
red with white specks, etc. Near Charlotte, North Carolina, there 
occurs a cream-colored quartz porphyr^^ which is penetrated by long- 
parallel streaks of a dead-black color. The stone, when cut across the 
streaks, has a spotted appearance (hence the name Leopavdite)\ cut 
parallel with the streaks it gives a dentritic or moss-like effect. 

Porphyry tinds a use more as an ornamental stone than as a stone 
for personal adornment. 

PREHNITE. 

CHLORASTROLITE — ZONOCHLORITE. 

Prehnite occurs more commonljMiiassive, usually in reniform, botr}"- 
oidal, globular, and stalactitic shapes. Hardness, 6.5; specitic gravity^ 
2.8 to 2.95; luster, vitreous, occasionally pearly on certain surfaces. 
Color, light green of several shades, passing into white and gray, the 
color often fading on exposure. When cut and polished the darker 
kinds resemble chrysoprase in color and luster. 

Chlorastrolite, from chloros (green), aster (star), and lithos (stone), 
is an impure variety of prehnite, occurring in small rounded pebbles 
obtained from the trap on the shores of Isle Royale, Lake Superior. 
It is opaque, of a mottled green color, somewhat chat03^ant on the 
rounded sides, and receives a high polish. 

Zonochlorite occurs on a small island off Neepigon Bay, Lake 
Superior. Its green color and banded appearance has given' it its 
name from zona, a band; chloros, green; and lithos, stone, 

Prehnite occurs as a secondary mineral in veins and cavities in the 
more basic eruptive rocks as basalt and diabase; less often in the 
crystalline rocks, granite, gneiss, and sj^enite. 

One hundred parts contain: Silica. -i-S.S; alumina, 24. S; lime, 27.1; 
water, -1.3, 

PYRITE AND MARCASITE. 

Pyrite and marcasite are occasionally cut into squares, ovals, and 
other shapes for use as settings for rings, scarf pins, trinkets, etc. The 
two minerals contain the same elements in the same proportions — iron 
46,7 and sulphur 53.3 parts per 100 — but differ in their physical prop- 
erties, Pyrite has a hardness of 6.5; specific gravity, 5.2; crystalline 
form, isometric; color, brass yellow, and is the kind more commonlj^ 
used for ornaments. Marcasite has a hardness of 6; specific gravity, 
4.8; crystalline form, orthorhombic; color, pale or gra^^ish yellow. 
During the eighteenth century both pyrite and marcasite were cut 
into facetted forms and extensively used for jewehy. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 



521 



QUARTZ. 

Quartz crystallizes in the hexag-onal S3'steni, the most common form 
beino- a six-sided prism, oenerally striated horizontally. The crystals 
are often highly moditied; some appear to have each alternate plane 
of the prism suppressed; some have the prism with p3'ramids at each 
end; others have the two pyramids only; still others have the edges 
and angles replaced hy new planes. It occurs also in stalactitic, mam- 




millary, and other imitative shapes, and massive, either impalpable, 
fine, or coarse granular. Hardness, 7; specific gravity, 2.5 to 2.8, 
depending- upon the amount of impurity present, the purest kinds 
2.65. Luster, vitreous, sometimes inclining- to resinous, and varying- 
in degree from splendent to dull. Colorless when pure; often various 
shades of yellow, red, brown, green, blue, and ))lack. Quartz is 
doubly refractive and the colored kinds are dichroic. (Plate 5.) 



522 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Quartz iiu-ludes a larger number of kinds of gems among its varie- 
ties than any other mineral. The varieties arise from differences in 
color, mode of formation, or (nystallization. These varieties, though 
differing wideh' in appearance and passing uifder a variety of names, 
are chemically all of one sul)stance. The following is a list of the 
kinds commonly recognized: 

Agate. — A variegated chalcedonic quartz, the colors in clouds, spots, 
bends, or layers. The bands or layers may be either parallel or concen- 




Fig. 9. 

AGATIZED WOOD. 

Chalcedony Park, Arizona. 
.Specimen No. 82485, U.S.N. M. 

trie, and either in straight, circular, or zigzag forms. Banded agates 
may be called fortification^ handed., or eye agates^ according to the 
arrangement of the layers, (See fig. 8.) 

Agatized 'wood.— \\oo([ siliciried by silica and usually having the 
structure of the original material. The western part of the United 
States affords some remarkal)le specimens of this material. In Apache 
County, Arizona, there is a silicitied forest in which trunks 150 feet 



Report of U, S. National Museum, 1900.— Tassin. 



Plate 5. 




CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 



523 



loMi;- iiiul 8 feet in diameter are not unconnnon. The locality ati'ord.s 
perhaps the finest specimens known for warmth and combination of 
coh)rs, in which red predominates. (Fig. U.) 

Amethyst. — A clear purple or l)luish violet (quartz. The color of 
the amethyst is often irregularlj^ diffused, the deep purple fading into 
pink and white. (See tig, 10.) 




A^stt-rkded or atar quai'tz. — Contains impurities or opacity so arranged 
that when cut cabochon across the prism it exhil)its asterism. 

Aventurine quartz is minutely spangled throughout the mass with 
yellow scales. It is transparent to opaque, and of a gray. 1)r()\vn, red- 
dish-brown, or yellow color. 

Basanite, lydlandone, or ioi«-Ji.sionc. — A velvet-black silic(M)us (juartz 
or flint}' jasper. 

Beehite. — Silicitied corals, shells, or limestones, resembling chal- 
cedonv. 



524 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Bloodstone or heliotrope. — A translucent to opaque jasper of a deep- 
green color inter.sper.sed with red .spots. 

Caii'ngoi'm, smol'y quartz, or niorlon. — Having a smoky gra}', 3'ellow, 
yellowish -brown, and brown color. The crystals are often pellucid, 
but occasionally the color is so deep as to render then) nearly opaque. 

Carnelian. — A reddi.sh variet}' of chalcedony passing into grayish 
red, 3'ellow, and l)rown; translucent, like horn. The carnelian takes a 
fine polish and is often of a clear bright tint. The colors are commonly 
heightened l)y exposure to the sun or b}' heat. (Plate 6.) 

Cafs-eye. — Translucent quartz exhibiting opalescence or chatoj^ancy 
when cut cabochon, an effect due to inclusions of fibrous minerals, such 
as hornl)lende, asbestus, actinolite, and crocidolite. The color is com- 
monl}' light greenish gray; sometimes yellow, red, or brownish. 

Chalcedony. — Translucent, subtranslucent, or opaque, usually having 
a waxy luster and a white, yellow, brown, or bluish color. It occurs 
massive in imitative shapes. 

Chryso2)rase. — An apple, leek-green, bluish, or yellowish translucent 
chalcedony. 

Citrine quartz, false, Saxon, Scotch, or Spanish topaz.— K. light- 
yellow, brown, or greenish-yellow, pellucid quartz. 

Ferruginous quartz, ruh<(sst, Ancona ruhy, or 2Iont Blanc ruby, is 
opaque-red, brownish-red, or ocher-yellow crj^stallized quartz. 

Flint. — A more or less opaque chalcedonic quartz, usuall}' g'l'^^y^ 
smoke brown, and brownish black. "Breaks with a conchoidal fracture 
and a sharp cutting edge. 

Jlornstone closely resembles flint, but has a more splintery fracture. 

Hyaline is an opalescent white quartz. 

Jasper. — An impure massive quartz or chalcedonic rock, presenting 
little beauty until polished. Color, dull red, yellow, brown, or green, 
sometimes blue or black. AVhen the colors are ])anded it is called rih- 
l>and jasjjer. If zoned with colors, yellow, red, brown, or black, it is 
called Egyptian jaspjer. Jasper takes a high polish, and is extensively 
used in the manufacture of mosaics, vases, snufl:' and match boxes, 
knife handles, etc. 

Milky quartz is a massive, vitreous variety, having a milk-white color. 
It is occasionalh' opalescent, and sometimes has a greasy- luster. 

Moss agate w mocha stone is a chalcedony, containing dendritic or 
moss-like markings. 

Onyx. — Ijike agate, but the colors are arranged in horizontal planes 
or layers, so that it can be used in cutting cameos. When the laj^ers 
consist of reddish and white chalcedony the stone is called sardonyx. 

Plasma. — A more or less translucent chalcedony, having a leaf -green 
color. 

Prase. — A leek or olive green, somewhat spotted, massive quartz. 

Roch cjnjstal. — Transparent and colorless; includes the pure crystals 
of quartz. 



fieport of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Tassin 



Plate 6. 




CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 



525 



Rose quartz. — ^Rose to pale pink, iiioie or le.ss tninsparont. and usually 
massive. Luster, vitreous, occasionally oroasy, and sometimes opal- 
escent. Rose quartz is liable to lose its color on exposure to light. 

Sagenitic (puirtz. — Quartz penetrated with acicular crj'stalsof other 
minerals, as rutile {Venus hair stone or jiecJie (Vamour) hornl)lende, 
tremolite, actinolite {Thetis' -Jiair stone), gothite, tourmaline, etc. (Plate 
7.) Chlorite in quartz is common, and advantage is often taken of its 









presence in working up the specimen. Gold, silver, copper, etc., are 
frequent inclusions, and such specimens are largely used in jewelry. 
Often the included mineral is so a))undant that the quartz is present 
onl}' as a cementing material. An example of this is set'u in the 
erocidolite quartz or tiger-eye. 

!Saj>2^hirine or siderite. — A translucent, indigo, Berlin, or pale gray- 
ish blue, vitreous quartz. 



52(3 REPORT OF NATKJNAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Sard. — A translucent, red, brownish red, blood red, golden or amber 
colored chak-edony. Quartz crystals are occasionall}' met with which 
are irridescent within, an effect due to fractures and cavities in the 
interior. Such crystals are cut and sold under the name of iris. The 
irised effect is frequently produced by artiffcial means, usually by heat- 
ing- and then suddenly cooling the specimen. 

Quartz is widespread in its occurrence, being found in some of its 
varieties in nearly every rock stratum. The varieties consist essen- 
tially of either amorphous or crystalline silica in various forms, associ- 
ated with various coloring compounds, such as those containing iron^ 
manganese, or nickel. 

RHODONITE. 

FOWLERITE. 

Rhodonite has a hardness of r),5, a specific gravity of 3.6, and a 
vitreous luster. The kinds used as ornamental stones are a fine rose 
to flesh red, often streaked with Ijlack. Though somewhat soft, the 
mineral is nearlj^ as tough as jade. The variety known as fowlerite 
occurs in fine flesh-red crystals, some of them over 4 inches thick, at 
Franklin, Sussex County, New Jerse}'. 

Rhodonite contains: Silica, 4.5.9; manganese oxide, 54.1. 

RUTILE. 



Rutile occurs crj'stallized and massive. The crystals are frequently 
acicular; often geniculated, and usually have their vertical planes 
striated. Hardness, 6 to 6.5; specific gravity, 4.25; luster, metallic 
adamantine; color, reddish browni passing into red, black, yellowish, 
violet, blue, and occasionally green. The black variety, nigrine, more 
closely approaches the black diamond in appearance than any other 
gem. The reds have the tone and color of the garnet; acicular crystals 
penetrating limpid quartz when cut affords the Venus hair stone., Jfeche 
cPamour^ or love's arrows. Rutile occurs in granite, gneiss, mica, slate,, 
and syenitic rocks, occasionally in granular limestones. 

One hundred parts contain: Titanium, 60.98; oxygen, ol».t>2. 

SAMARSKITE. 

This mineral is occasionally cut as a collector's gem. Its color is 
velvety black; luster, siibmetallic and shining; hardness, 5.5; specific 
gravity, 5.68; color, opaque. 

SCAPOLITE. 

AV ERX EK ITE W I LSOX ITE. 

Scapolite occurs in tetragonal crystals and massive; luster, vitreous 
to pearly, occasionally resinous; color, white, gray, blue, green, and 
red, usually of faint shades; hardness, nearly 6; specific gravit}', 2.7. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Tassin. 



Plate 7. 




CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 527 

The variety wilsonite is ot" a rich purplish-red color and takes a ^-ood 
polish. Scapolite is usually found in crystalline rocks and in granular 
i limestone, more connuonly near o-ranite contacts. 

» SERPENTINE. 

, Serpentine admits of a high polish and is often employed as a mate- 

I rial for ornaments, vases, etc. Its hardness is about 4; specific 
I gravity, 2.5; luster, resinous to greasy; color, dark green, and Idackish 
green to oil and siskin green, yellow, and white; frequently clouded 
with green of various shades and occasionally mottled with red. 
Boirenite is a cream-colored variety resembling nephrite and having a 
hardness of 5. WiUlainslte is of a rich blackish oil-green color, often 
having chromic iron disseminated through it, giving it a mottled 
appearance. Yerde (ottujue is a serpentinous rock used as a marble. 
It is clouded with green of various shades and is extensivel}' used for 
indoor ornamental work. 

Serpentine often constitutes rock masses, and as such is the result 
of the alteration of an igneous rock composed largeh' of magnesian 
silicates. 

One hundred parts of the mineral contain: Silica, 43.64; magnesia, 
43.35; water, 13.01. 

SMITHSONITE. 

Smithsonite has a hardness of 5, a specific gravity of 4.45, and a 
, vitreous to pearly luster. Color, white, often grayish, greenish, and 
brownish white; sometimes green, blue, orange yellow, brown, and 
pink. The rich-colored kinds are occasionally cut for cabinet gems. 

Smithsonite is found in beds and veins associated with other zinc 
minerals, galena, copper, and iron, usually in calcareous rocks. 

One hundred parts contain: Oxide of zinc, 64.81; carlionic acid, 
35.19. 

SODALITE. 

The fine blue-colored varieties of sodalite are cut cabochon for gem 
purposes. Hardness, 6; specific gravity, 2.20; luster, vitreous, inclin- 
ing to greasy. Sodalite is met with in mica-slate, granite, gneiss, and 
certain eruptive rocks. 

One hundred parts contain: Silica, 37.2; soda, 19.1; chlorine, 7.3. 

SPINEL. 

ALMAXDIXE — BALAS-RUBY — RUBICELLE — SAPPHIRINE — PLEONAST. 

Spinel crystallizes in the isometric system, commonly in octahe- 
drons. Its hardness is 8; specific gravity al)out 3.65; luster, vitreous. 
Color, red of various shades, passing into blue, green, yellow, brown, 
black, and occasionally nearly white. The mineral affords a wider 
rang§ of color than any other gem. Following the order of the pris- 
matic hues there are red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and vio- 



538 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



let colored spinels; uiul also there are those showing a whole series of 
intermediate hues such as pink, heliotrope, lavender, lilac, purple, 
fawn, corn color, etc. The transparent, lively, red-colored spinels 
are called sjnnel riih'ies^ and may readily be taken for the true rub3% 
though its small refractive and dispersive power together with the 
absence of pleochroism render it less brilliant than and lacking the 
fire of the red corundums. The rose-red to pink-colored kinds are 
called hcdas riily ,' the yellow or orange-red spinels are known asruhi- 
ceUe; the violet and purple ones as almandine; the pale to sapphire- 
blue kinds as sapphirine ; the blacks as pleonast 




Fig. 12. 
SPINEL CRYSTALS. 

Kandy, Ceylon. 

SpeL-inieu No. 43103, U.S.N.M. 



Spinel occurs embedded in granular limestone, and with calcite in 
serpentine, gneiss, and allied rocks; occurring also in cavities in the 
ejected masses of certain volcanoes. Found also as rolled pebbles in 
certain alluvials, such as those of Ceylon and Burma, Avhere it occurs 
in water-Avorn masses of fine colors in the channels of streams along 
with quartz, garnet, tourmaline, sapphire, zircon, and other gem 
minerals. Spinel ruby is f requentl}' found along with the ruby corun- 
dum in the crystalline limestone of the rubv mines of Burma. Most of 
the gem spinel comes from Ceylon, Burma, Siam, India, and other 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 529 

Eastern coimtrios. Small crystals of g-ood color are found in the oem- 
bearing- gravel of Expailh', France. The old lavas of Monte Somina, 
Italy, afford small black crystals of great brilliancy. A pale blue to 
pearl gray kind is found in the limestone near Aker, Sweden. From 
Amity, New York, to Andover, New Jerse}^ a distance of about 
SO miles, is a region of granular limestone and serpentine in which 
localities of spinel abound, the crystals sometimes being tine enough to 
afford green, black, brown, and, less commonh', red gems. The locali- 
ties near Franklin, New Jersey, afford cr^^stals of various shades of 
black, blue, green, and red, which will occasionally afford small gems. 
Spinel, when pure, contains essentially 28 parts of magnesia and 72 
parts of alumina per 100; the magnesia, however, ma}' be, and often 
is replaced by oxides of iron, zinc, manganese, or lime. These replace- 
ments give rise to several varieties known as automolite and gahnite, 
zinc spinels, having a dark green to black color and a specilic gravity 
of 1.1 to 1.9. Ceylonite, an iron magnesia spinel, usually black in 
color, and having a density of 3.57. Chlorospinel. a magnesia, iron, 
and alumina spinel, having a grass-green color and a specitic gravity- of 
-3.59. Dysluite, a zinc, manganese, and iron spinel, having a yellowish 
or graj'ish brown color with a specitic gravity of 1.55. Hercynite, an 
iron spinel, having a specitic gravity of 8.9. 

SPODUMENE. 

HIDDENITE LITHIA EMERALD. 

Transparent spodumene affords gems varying in color from green of 
several shades, straw yellow to yellowish white, faint reddish to ame- 
thystine, and colorless. The mineral occurs in monoclinic crystals of 
a prismatic habit and in cleavable masses. Its hardness is 6.5 to 7. 
Specific gravit}', 3.13. Cleavage, prismatic and perfect. Fracture, 
uneven; brittle. Luster, vitreous: somewhat pearly on cleavage 
surfaces. 

Hiddenite, or lithia emerald, is a variety of spodumene varying in 
color from a yellowish green to a deep emerald green tinged with yel- 
low, the colors of the crystal usually })eing 3'ellow at one extremity 
and a more or less deep green at the other. The deeper colored kinds 
afford a gem resembling the emerald ])ut having a greater variety of 
color because of its strong pleochroism. The mineral occurs in slender 
prismatic crystals one-half inch to 2 inches in length, affording small 
gems only, the largest being luidcr 3 carats in weight. Hiddenite is 
at present known from ])ut one locality. Stony Point, Alexander 
County, North Carolina, where it is found in metamorphic rocks, 
generally gneiss or mica schist, in veins of kaolin. The associated 
minerals are quartz, mica, rutilc, ber^i, and feldspar. 

Most of the gem spodumene proper comes from the province of 



530 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

]Minsis Geraes, Brazil, where it occurs rather abundantly in crystals 
closeh' reseniblino- chrvsober3'l in color. 

Spodumcno contains in 100 parts: Silica, 6-1.5; alumina, 29.3; 
lithia, 6.2. 

STAUROLITE. 

FAIRY STONE. 

Staurolite is occasional!}' used as a gem. It occurs in orthorhombic 
crystals of a prismatic habit, often cruciform from twinnino-. Color, 
dark reddish brown to brownish black. Hardness, 7.5; specific grav- 
ity, 3.T. The transparent kinds when cut resemble garnets. From 
their resemblance to a cross, the twinned forms are used to quite an 
extent as ornaments and charms, a use based to a certain degree upon 
the belief that they fell from heaven. Staurolite occurs commonly 
embedded in schist and gneiss. 

One hundred parts contain: Silica, 29.3; alumina, 53.5; peroxide 
of iron, 17.2.. 

THOMSONITE. 



LIXTOXITE. 



The thomsonite, and a variety, lintonite, occurring as amygdules in 
the basalt and as rolled pebbles on the beaches of Lake Superior, tind 
a limited use as gem minerals. The pebbles vary in size from that of 
a pea to a hickory nut, and are often made up of a series of concentric 
layers of various shades of color, flesh red and other reds, green, 
yellow, and white; affording, when polished, an attractive ornament 
resembling the eye agate. Hardness, 5.5; specific gravity, 2 A; luster, 
vitreous, inclining to pearly. 

One hundred parts contain: Silica, 37.4; alumina, 31.8; lime, 13; 
soda, 4.8; water, 13. 

TITANITE. 



Titanite, or sphene, is employed to some extent as a gem mineral. 
Its hardness is 5.5; specific gravity, 3.5; luster, vitreous; color, brown, 
gray, yellow, green, and black; possessing strong refractive and dis- 
persive powers on light. The transparent and colorless, greenish or 
yellowish kinds when cut show a great deal of fire and present an ap- 
pearance approaching that of the fire opal. 

One hundred parts contain: Silica, 30.45; titanic oxide, 41.33; lime, 
28.22. 

TOPAZ. 

Topaz crystallizes in the orthorhombic system, occurring commonly 
in prismatic forms having the prism faces more or less striated verti- 
cally; also occurring massive. The mineral has a highly perfect basal 
cleavage, i. e., transverse to the length of the prism; a hardness of 8; 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Tassin. 



Plate 8. 




Topaz with smoky Quartz. 

Specimen No. S1242. L'.S.N.M. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 



531 



a .specific gravity of 3.5 to 3.65; becomes strongly' electric hy friction, 
heat, or pressure, remaining* in that condition for some time, a charac- 
teristic so inarlvcd as to ati'ord a vahialile means for its discrimination; 
a vitreous luster; a strong double refraction: ;uid. in colored kinds, a 
marked pleochroism. 

The colors of the topaz include wine, am)>er, honey, and straAV-yellow, 
pale blue to pale green of several shades, grayish, reddish, and white. 
Colorless specimens, especialh* the rolled pebbles, are peculiarly limpid, 
hence the name c/outtes d\au. (Fig. 13.) The best colorless topazes 
have considerable tire. and. when properly cut. exhibit brilliant retlec- 




Fig. 13. 

TUPAZ PEBBLES [GOUTTES D' EAU]. 

Mitchell River, New South Wales. 

Specimen No. 83782, U.S.N.M. 

tions of white light, approximating that of the diamond. The rose- 
pink topaz is probabl}' not known in nature, the delicate tint being 
commonh' obtained by heating the yellow or brown colored kinds. 
The process of " pinking" is quite simple. The selected stone is packed 
in magnesia, asbestus. or lime, and carefulh' heated to a low red heat, 
care being taken that the temperature is raised gradually: the stone 
is then allowed to slowly cool. If the temperature reached has Itecn 
sufficiently high, the desired rose-petal tint is obtained; if not high 
enough, a salmon tint: if too high or too long continued, tlu^ color is 
lost completely. 



532 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



There arc several distinct minerals which are commonly called topaz, 
the 3-ellow sapphire known as the " oriental topaz," the topaz proper, 
and certain colored kinds of quartz, known as "Saxon," "Scotch," 
"Spanish," "smoky," and "false topaz." These stones vary rather 
wideh^ in hardness and specific gravity, which, together with the power 
of developing frictional electricity (possessed by the true topaz) fur- 
nishes a rcadv means for their discrimination. Thus: 



Name. 



Oriental topaz... 
True topaz 

Scotch topaz, etc 



Hard- 
ness. 



Specific 
gravity. 



-1.01 
3.53 
2. f.5 



Topaz occurs in g-neiss or granite, associated with tourmaline, mica, 
beryl, etc., and occasional!}' with apatite, fluorite, and cassiterite; 
occurring also in certain talcose rocks, in mica slate, in rhyolite, and 
in alluvial deposits and drift. 

In composition the mineral is a fluo-silicate of alumina, containing 
in 100 parts: Silicon, 15.5; aluminum, 30.2; oxygen, 36.8; fluorine, 
17.5. 

TOURMALINE. 

ACHROITE — APHRIZITE — INDICULITK — KUBELLITE. 

The tourmaline crystallizes in the rhombohedral division of the 
hexagonal system. The crj^stals are commonly prismatic in habit, 
and often slender to aeicular. The prismatic faces are strongly 
striated longitudinally, giving a rounded, barrel-shaped, or triangular 
appearance to the crj^stal. The crystals are sometimes isolated, but 
occur more commonly in parallel and radiating groups. The mineral 
also occurs massive, compact, or in parallel to divergent, columnar 
shapes. Hardness, 7 to 7.5; specific gravity, 2.9tl: to 3.3; luster, vit- 
reous; transparent to opaque, and unlike in transparenc}" across the 
prism and in the line of the axis; becomes electric by friction. Color, 
black, brown, blue, green, red, and white; some specimens red inter- 
nally, and green externally; others red at one extremity and green, blue, 
or black with intermediate shades at the other; dichroism marked. 

The question of color is of interest. Some specimens are of one color 
only; others are green at one extremity and red at the other; some 
are green, then yellow, red, and finally green; others are crimson, 
tipped with black, or dark green passing into blue. A crystal may be 
white at the termination, then green of varying shades, pink and 
colorless, and in cross section dark blue or red at the center, sur- 
rounded by concentric layers of white, pink, and green. Another 
specimen may be red internally, passing into a lighter hue and finally 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1 900.— Tassin. 



Plate 9. 




Siberian Topaz. 

Specimen N6. 81244. U.S.N.M. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 533 

^Teen; or it may ))0 blue or black internally, then red, and then green 
externally. In some specimens the different colors pass imperceptibly 
into one another; in others the line of demarcation is well detined. 

The colorless tourmalines are called Achroite; to. the black the 
names Aphrislte and Schorl are applied; the blues, either pale, indigo, 
or l)lackish blue, are called Ind'acVde; this also includes the kinds 
known as Brazilian, sapphire having a transparent Berlin-blue color; 
the red tourmalines, varying from a tine ruby red to violet red 
{siheritt) and pale rose red or pink, are called liuheUitt'. 

The optical structure of the tourmaline is unique. When a cr\-stal 
is viewed along the direction of its vertical axis it is less transparent 
and of different color than when viewed across that axis. For instance, 
a crystal viewed through the side is a transparent green, but when 
viewed through the end of the prism it may be either opaque or yellow 
green. 

The marked pleochroism of the colored tourmalines influences to a 
great degree the appearance of the fashioned stone. For example, if 
a green-colored specimen is cut so that the table is parallel with the 
vertical axis of the crj'stal, the gem will exhibit a play and interchange 
of colors of two shades of green; if, however, the specimen is so cut 
that the table of the fashioned stone is perpendicular to the vertical 
axis, the gem will appear more or less opaque and dark colored, and 
will exhibit its transparency and green coloring onh' when viewed 
across the girdle. Care should be taken, therefore, in fashioning the 
tourmaline that the table is parallel with the vertical axis of the 
crystal; further, the facets of the crown should be large and well- 
developed in order to exhibit to the utmost the differences of color for 
light transmitted in different directions as the gem is viewed from 
different positions. 

In composition the tourmalines are very complex boro-silicates of 
aluminum, magnesium, iron, or alkalies, falling under four types: 
Lithia tourmalines, iron tourmalines, magnesia-iron tourmalines, and 
magnesia tourmalines. 

The geological occurrence of the four types of tourmaline is of 
interest. The lithia group — which is often beautifully colored and 
affords the best gem material — is associated with soda and potash feld- 
spar in pegmatite veins along with lepidolite and umscovite. The iron 
and the magnesia-iron groups, which are commonly black or brownish 
black, occur in granites, gneisses, schists, and also to a certain extent 
in pegmatites along Avith the lithia group. The magnesia group — 
commonly brown in color — occur chiefly in crystalline magnesian 
limestones associated with mica, pyroxene, scapolite, etc. 

Tourmaline is usually found in granite, gneiss, or mica slate. It 
occurs also in dolomite or granular limestone, and in certain contact 



534 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

rocks near dikes of igneous rocks: also in rolled pebbles in alluvial 
deposits. 

In the United States magnificent colored tourmalines have been 
found in Maine at Au)>urn, Hebron, Norwa\', Andover, Rumford, 
Standish, and Paris. The more famous locality is at Mount Mica, 
near Paris. It Avas discovered in 1820 and is still 3ieldino- fine speci- 
mens of red, green, and parti-colored tourmalines; some crystals are 
over an inch in diameter, transparent rub}' red within, surrounded by 
green, or red at one extremity and green at the other. One l)hu 
cr3'stal found was nine inches long. The locality affords ail of thl 
colored varieties, achroite, aphrizite, indicolite, and rubellite. Red 
and green tourmalines are found at Chesterfield, Massachusetts, in a 
granite vein with al])ite, uraninite, and pyrochlore; the crystals small 
and curved, nearly opaque, and fragile; the green crystals, often with 
distinct prisms of red color inside, are found at this locality. At 
Goshen, Massachusetts, similar varieties occur, and the blue is met 
with in great perfection. At Haddam, Connecticut, in cr3^stals in 
mica-slate with anthophyllite, also in granite with iolite, and also at 
the gneiss quarries, on the east side of the river. At Haddam Neck, 
in fine green, and parti-colored crystals aflording magnificent gems. 
Near Gouverneur, New York, light and dark brown crystals, often 
highly modified. Good cr3^stals are found in Pennsylvania at Newlin, 
Chester County, at London Grove, and Unionville. Fine stellate and 
divergent rubellites in lepidolite are found in San Bernardino County, 
California. In Canada magnificent greenish-yellow crj^stals occur in 
the limestone at Great Calumet Island; amber-colored ones at Fitzroy, 
Ontario; transparent brown at Hunterstown, Quebec; black at Bat- 
hurst and Elmsley, Ontario, and St. Jerome, Quebec. Small brilliant 
crystals found in decomposed feldspar, at Andreasberg in the Hartz, 
are of the Aphrizite variety, Rubellite and green tourmaline occur 
near Ekaterinburg in Siberia. The island of Elba yields pink, red, 
white, green, black, and parti-colored cr3^stals. Brazil aflords a large 
proportion of the specimens used for gems, and has been one of the 
great sources of supply for more than two hundred years. Ceylon, 
India, and Burma produce good gem material, the latter locality 
affording some magnificent rubellites, rivaling the rubj" in color. 

TURQUOISE. 

CAI.LAINITE — TfRKIS. 

Turquoise occurs massive, reniform stalactitic or encrusting; in thin 
seams and disseminated grains; and in rolled masses. The hardness 
of the mineral is C. Specific gravity about 3.75. Cleavage, none. 
Fracture, small conchoidal; rather l)rittle. Luster, somewhat wax3\ 
Color, sky-blue, bluish green, apple-green, and greenish gra}'; the 



CATALOGUE OF OEMS. 535 

color is liuhle to c-liungo, :i tine ])lue stone becoming a verdigris or 
sickl\' green. 

Tur(|iioise of poor color is frequently given the approved robin's-egg 
or peculiar bluish green tint by artiticial means. Many of these 
sophistications can be detected by washing the stone in strong ammo- 
nia water, which will attack the coloring matter. The reagent does not 
iitl'ectjJie color of the true Persian tunpioise, although soap and water 
^JiJP^ so that the hands should never be washed with a turquoise on 
them. 

The ])est specimens, which generally do not lose their color easily, 
come from the vicinit}'^ of Nishjipur, Persia, where they occur in nar- 
row seams and irregular patches in the brecciated portions of a por- 
phvritic trachyte and the surrounding clay slate. Inferior specimens 
art> found in Asia ]Minor, Turkestan, and the Kirghiz Steppes. In the 
United States, turquoise is found in a trachytic rock in the Los Ceril- 
los Mountains, near Santa Fe; the localit}' was early worked by the 
Indians and has lately afforded some fine gems. Other occurrences 
are at Turquoise Mountain, Cochise County, and Mineral Park, ]Mojave 
County, Arizona; near Columbus, Nevada; at the Holy Cross Moun- 
tain. Colorado, and in Fresno and San Bernardino counties, California. 

Chemical!}', the turquoise is a hydrous phosphate of aluminum and 
copper and contains in 100 parts: Phosphoric acid, 30.9; alumina, 
•1:4.50; oxide of copper, 3.75; water, 19. 

VARISCITE. 



The compact massive kinds of variscite are occasionally cut for use 
as a gem. The color of the mineral is a rich green of several shades, 
bright green, emerald, and bluish green. Hardness, 4; specific gravity, 
2.6. It takes a high polish, and its strong rich colors would make it 
an attractive ornamental stone were it not so soft. The best variscite 
is found in compact nodular masses, locall}' called ntahlte^ near Lewis- 
ton, Cedar Valley, Tooele County, Utah. 

Variscite contains in 100 parts: Phosphorous pentoxide, 41.9; alum- 
ina, 32.3; water 22.8. 

VESUVIANITE. 

CYPRIXE — IDOCRASE. 

Vesuvianite occurs in tetragonal crvstals conunoidy of a prismatic 
habit and massive, either columnar or granular. Hardness, 6.5; 
specific gravity, 3.349 to 3.45, Luster, vitreous, often inclining to 
resinous. Color, brown to green, the latter frequently ])right and 
clear and appearing of a different color when viewed across the lateral 
axis of the prism; occasionally sulphur-yellow, wine-yellow, pale blue, 
and black. 

NAT MUS 1900- 37 



536 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Vesuvanitc was first found in the ancient Vesuvian lavas, and in the 
dolomite of Monte Sonina. It occurs rather al^undantly in g-ranular 
limestone, serpentine, chlorite schist, gneiss, etc., frequentl}^ as a result 
of contact metamorphism. Its common associates are garnet, diopside, 
epidote, wollastonite, and titanite. 

The name vesuvianite is from the first known ]ocalit3\ Idocrase is 
from siSog^ I see, and Kpaaiz^ '})iixtare, in allusion to the resemblance 
between its form and those of other minerals. Cyprine is the name 
applied to a pale blue kind occurring near Tellemarken, Norway. 

One hundred parts of vesuvianite contain approximately^: Silica, 
39.6; alumina, 22.5; lime, 32.6; iron, 5.3. 

WILLEMITE. 

Anhydrous silicate of zinc has a hardness of 5.5; a specific gravity of 
3.9; and a vitreo-resinous luster. Sufficiently transparent specimens 
afl'ording fair cabinet gems have been found at Franklin, Sussex 
County, New Jerse3^ The color varies from golden or greenish yel- 
low, near that of chrysoberyl, to a canary-yellow. The mineral is 
commonly opaque and of a brown, apple-green, or flesh-red color, and 
at Franklin is usually mixed with zincite and franklinite. 

ZIRCON. 

HYACINTH — JACINTH — JARGON. 

Zircon crystallizes in the tetragonal system, occurring commonly in 
square prisms; also in irregular forms and grains. Its hardness is 
7.5; specific gravity, commonly 4.7, sometimes as low as 4.2, or as 
high as 4.86; luster, adamantine; double refraction, strong. Its range 
of color includes green, red, brown, blue, yellow, all presenting many 
gradations of hue, to colorless. Its "fire" is second only to that of 
the diamond, and this, together with its brilliant luster and range of 
rich and delicate tones of color, makes it an attractive gem. 

The zircon includes the gems known as hyacinth, or jacinth and jar- 
gon or jargoon. The hyacinth includes the reddish, brownish, and 
orange-red specimens; the jargon the yellowish, smoky, and colorless 
kinds. 

Zircon occurs in crystalline rocks such as granular limestone in 
gneiss, granite, and syenite; in chlorite and other schists, and in allu- 
vial deposits derived from them. 

Chemically it contains in 100 parts; Zirconia, 67.2; silica, 32.8. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 



537 



III. COMPARATIVE TABLES OF THE COLORS AND DISTINGUISHING 
CHARACTERS OF THE BETTER-KNOWN GEMS. 

I.— LIMPID OR COLORLESS STONES. 



Zircon (jar- 
goon). 



Specific 
gravity. 



Sapphire 



Spinel 



Topaz 



Diamond 3. 48 -3. .52 



3. 916-4. 27 



3.5 -3.8 



Tourmaline 



Bervl . 



Quartz (r o c k 2.5.5 -2. 
cry.-ital). , 



7.5. Will just 
scratch quartz. 



Refraction and 

refractive 

index. 



Disper- 
sion. 



9. Scratched by 
diamond; will 
.scratch all oth- 
ers of the class. 

8. Scratched by 
sapphire; will 
scratch (luartz 
easily. 



. Scratched by 
.siipphire: will 
scratch quartz 
easily. 



10. Scratches all 
other stones. 

7-7.5. Willbarely 
scratch quartz. 



Double. 1.990. 



Double, but 
not strong. 
1.76.5. 

Single. 1.755 
to 1.810. 



Double. 1.635. .025 



Single. 2.4.55.. 
Double. 1.625. 



7.5-8. Specimens Double; weak. 

vary. Scratch- | 1.585. 

cd by .spinel; ] 

scratches 

quartz. 
7. Scratches glass. Double. 1.519. 



.38 

. 028 



Distinguished from dia- 
mond, which it resem- 
bles, by its hardness and 
specific gravity and by 
the fact that strong hy- 
drochloric acid dropped 
upon a polished face 
will, upon removal, 
' liavedestroyedordulled 
its brilliancy. The acid 
is without effect on the 
diamond. The zircon 
acquires -|- electricity 
by friction. 

Distinguished by its hard- 
ncssand specificgravity. 
Becomes electrified by 
friction. 

Distinguished from other 
members of the group, 
except topaz, by its spe- 
cific gravity and hard- 
ness, and from topaz by 
not possessing pyro- 
electricity. 

Becomes electrified by 
friction and heat. Dis- 
tinguished from all 
stones in the group, ex- 
cept spinel, by its spe- 
cific gravity and hard- 
ness, and from spinei 
by its electrical prop- 
erties. 

Readily distinguished by 
its hardness. 

Becomes + and — electri- 
fied by heat or friction; 
one portion of a crystal 
attracts and another 
repels light bodies. 

Specimens may become 
electrified bv friction. 



538 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



III. (hmparative tahlen oj the rolorx and disllnguinhimj characters of the belter- fcnotvn 

ijems — Continued. 



Name. 



Zircon (jacinth). 



Sapphire (orien- 
tal topaz). 



Garnet (topazo- 
litc or grossn- 
larite, also es- 
sonite or cin- 
namon stone). 

C h r y s o b e r y 1 
(o rlental 
chrysolite). 



Spinel . 



Topaz 



Diamond 

Olivine (chryso- 
lite). 



Tonrmaline 



Beryl . 



Quartz (citrine 
or Scotch, 
Spanish, Sax- 
on, or false 
topaz). 



II.— YELLOW STONES. 



Specific 
gravity. 



3.97-1.2' 



3. 5 -3. .S9 



3. 48-3. .52 
3. 33-3. 5 



2. 73-2. 76 
2.55-2.7 



Hardness. 



7.5. Harder 
than quartz. 



'^. Scratches all 
other stones of 
the group ex- 
cept diamond. 

6.-5-7.5. Varies, 
but majority of 
specimens will 
scratch quartz 
slightly. 

S.5. Scratched 
by sapphire; 
scratches a 1 1 
others except 
diamond. 

8. Scratched by 
diamond, sap- 
phire; scratch- 
es quartz. 

do 



6-7. Scratched 
by quartz. 



7-7.5. But little 
harder than 
quartz. 

7.5-8. Specimens 
vary. 

7 



Refraction and 

refractive 

index. 



Double, strong- 
ly so. 1.990. 



Double. 1.765. 



Single. 1.759., 



Double. 1.760. 



Single. 1.755 
to 1.810. 



Double. 1.635. 

Single. 2.455. 
Double. 1.660 

Double. 1.625 



Double; weak. 

1.585. 
Double. 1.549 



Disper- 
sion. 



.025 



Distinguished from quartz 
in that its luster is dulled 
by strong hydrochloric 
acid; also by its higher 
specific gravity, and 
from all others of the 
group by hardness and 
specific gravity. 

Distinguished by its hard- 
ness and specific gravity. 
Becomes electrified by 
friction. 



The yellow is tinged with 
green. Acquires elec- 
tricity by friction. Dis- 
tinguished by its hard- 
ness,specific gravity and 
peculiar yellow color. 

Distinguished by its spe- 
cific gravity and hard- 
ness. Does not become 
electrified by friction. 

Distinguished from spinel 
by its electrical proper- 
ties, and from other 
stones by its hardness 
and specific gravity. 

Readily distinguished by 
its hardness. 

The yellow is tinged with 
green. Distinguished by 
its hardness and specific 
gravity. 

Becomes electrified by 
friction; one extremity 
of crystal -I-, other — . 



CAtALOGUE OF GEMS. 



589 



III. — Comparative taUes of the colors aiid distimjuishing cliaractevs of the better-known 

gems — Continued. 



III.— BROWN STONES. 



Name. 


Specific 
gravity. 


Hardness. 


Refraction and 

refractive 

index. 


Disper- 
sion. 


Remarks. 


Zircon (jacinth). 


4.44-1.8 


7.5 


Double. 1.990. 


0.044 


Sec previous tables. 


Sapphire (ada- 


3. 97-4. 27 


9. Scratched by 


Double. 1.765. 


.026 


Distinguished by its hard- 


mantine spar). 




diamond. 






ness and specific gravity. 




3. 5 -3. 89 


8.5 


Double. 1.700. 


.033 


Distinguished by its hard- 






ness and specific gravity. 












Becomes electrified by 












friction. 


Garnet (essonite 


3. ^ -4. 3 


7.5. Varies, but 


Single. 1.759.. 


.033 




or cinnamon 




as a rule will 








stone). 




scratch quartz. 










3.48-3.52 
2. 99-3. 22 


10 


Single. 2.487.. 
Double. 1.C.25. 


.,38 
.028 




Tourmaline 


7-7.5. But little 


Becomes + and — electri- 






harder than 






fied by heat or friction. 






(juartz. 








Quartz (cairn- 


2. 5.5-2. 7 


7. Scratches 


Double. 1.549. 


.026 




gorm). 




glass. 









IV.— RED AND FLAME-COLORED STONES. 



Zircon (hya- 


4.44-4.8 


7.6. Scratched by 


Double. 1.990. 


0.044 


Distinguished from ruby 


cinth). 




diamond, ruby, 
etc.; will just 
scratch quartz. 






and red diamond by its 
hardness and specific 
gravity. 


Ruby 


3. 97-4. 27 


9. Scratches all 


Double. 1.765. 


.026 


Distinguished bv its hard- 






others except 






ness and specific grav- 






diamond. 




\ 


ity. Becomes electrified 
by friction, a property 
wanting in the .spinel, 
with which it is fre- 
quently confu.sed. 


Garnet (pyrope, 


3.5 -4.5 


7-7.5. Varies, but 


Single. 1.759.. 


.033 


Distinguished by its.spe- 


rhodolite, al- 


Usually 4. 


as a rule will 






cific gravity and hard- 


mandite, esso- 




scratch quartz. 






ness. 


nite). 












Spinel (Balas 


3.5 -3.9 


8. Scratched by 


Single. 1.755 


.040 


Distinguished from ruby 


ruby, rubicelle, 




sapphire; 


to 1.810. 




by not becoming electri- 


spinel ruby). 




scratches zir- 
con, garnet, 
tourmaline, etc. 






fied by friction, and 
from it and all others of 
the group by its hard- 
ness and specific gra\aty. 


Diamond (rare) . 


3. 48-3. 52 


10. Hardest of 
stones. 


Single. 2.4.55.. 


.38 


Readily distinguished by 
its hardness. 


Tourmaline (ru- 


2. 99-3. 22 


7-7.5. But little 


Double. 1.625. 


.028 


Becomes electrified by 


bellite). 




harder t h a n 
quartz. 






friction; one extremity 
of the crystal -t-, the 
other — . 



540 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



III. — Comparative tables of the colors and distinguishing characters of the better-lnomi 

gems — Continii ed . 



v.— PINK STONES. 



Name. 


Specific 
gravity. 


Hardness. 


Refraction and 

refractive 

index. 


Disper- 
sion. 


Remarks. 


Sapphire (ruby). 


3. 97-1. 27 


9. Scratched by 
diamond; will 
scratch all oth- 
ers. 


Double, 1.765. 


0. 026 


Distingui.shed by its hard- 
ness and specific gravity. 


Garnet (grossn- 


3.5 -4.3 


6.5-7.5. Varies; 


Single. 1.759.. 


.033 




larite). 




but the majori- 
ty of the speci- 
m e n s will 
scratch quartz. 








Chrysobcryl 


3. 5 -3. 89 


8.5. Scratched by 
diamond and 
sapphire. 


Double. 1.760. 


.033 




Spinel (rnbiecl- 


3. 5 -3. 8 


8. Scratched by 


Single. 1.755 


.40 


Distinguished by its hard- 


le). 




diamond and 
sapphire. 


to 1.810. 




nessand .specific gravity. 
Does not become elec- 
trified by friction. 


Topaz 


3. .54-3. 6 


8. Scratches 
quartz. 


Double. 1.635. 


.025 


The pink color is usually 
produced artificially by 
heating yellow stones. 


Diamond 


3. 4S-3. 52 


10 


Single. 2.455.. 


.38 


Readily distinguished by 












its hardness. 


Tourmaline (ru- 


2. 99-3. 22 


7-7.75. But little 


Double. 1.625. 


. 028 




bellite). 




harder than 
quartz. 








Beryl (rare) 


2. 73-2. 76 


7.5-8. Specimens 
vary. 


Double, weak. 

1.585. 


.026 





VI.— REDDISH YELLOW OR ORANGE COLORED STONES. 



Zircon (jacinth). 


4. 44-4. 48 


7.5 


Double. 1.990. 


0.044 


Distinguished by its hard- 










ness and specific gravity. 












See ante. 


Sapphire (orient- 


3. 97-4. 27 


9. Scratched by 


Double. 1.765. 


.026 


Distinguished by its hard- 


al topaz). 




diamond only. 






nessand specific gravity. 


Garnet (spessar- 


3.5 -4.3 


6.5-7.5. Varies . . . 


Single. 1.759.. 


.033 




tite and esso- 












nite). 












Chrysobcryl 


3.5 -3.89 


8.5. Scratched by 
diamond and 
sapphire. 


Double. 1.760. 


.033 


Distinguished by its hard- 
ness and specific gravity. 


Spinel (rubi- 


3.6 -3.8 


8 


Single. 1.75.5- 
1.810. 


.40 


Does not become electri- 


celle). 




fied by friction. 


Topaz 


3. .54-3. 6 


8. 


Double 1 635 


. 025 


Distinguished from spinel 
by becoming electrified 






















by friction. 


Diamond 


3. 48-3. .52 


10 :. 


Single. 2.455 . . 


.38 




Tourmaline 


2. 99-3. 22 


7-7.6. But little 
harder than 
quartz. 


Double. 1.625 . 


.028 


See previous tables. 



Catalogue of gemb. 



541 



III. — Comparalitr tablcf! of the colors and distingniKhiiKj (■]i(ir<(c(irs of the Jitltcr-lnoiim 

gems — Continued. 



VII.— GREEN STONES. 



Name. 


Specific 
gravity. 


Hardness. 


Refraction and 

refractive 

index. 


Disper- 
sion. 


Remarks. 


Zircon '. 


4.4J-1.8 


7.5 Harder than 
quartz. 


Double. 1.990. 


0.044 


See jirevious tables. 






.'Sapphire (orient- 
al emerald). 


3.97^.27 


9 


Double. 1.765. 


.026 


Do. 












Garnet (demaii- 


3. .T -4. 3 


6.5-7.5. Varies, 


Single. 1.7.59.. 


. 033 


Distingui.shed from emer- 


toidaiidouvar- 




but as a rule 






ald, olivine, and diop- 


ovite). 




will sera t eh 
quartz. 






tase by its specific grav- 
ity, hardness, and op- 
tical characters. 


Ch r ysoberyl 


3. h -3. 89 


8.5. Nearly as 


Double. 1.760. 


.033 


Characterized by exhibit- 


(alexandrite). 




hard as sap- 
phire: harder 
than beryl, to- 
paz, garnet, ete. 






ing a columbine red or 
reddish color by trans- 
mitted light. 


Spinel 


3. .5 -3.8 


8 


Single. 1.7.55- 
1.810. 


,40 


See i)revious tables. 








Topaz 


3. 54-3. G 


,s 


Double. 1.635. 


.025 


Do. 


Diamond 


3. 48-3. 52 


10 


Single. 2.455.. 


.38 


Rare. 


Olivine ( peridot) 


3. 33-3. 5 


6-7 


Double. 1.660. 


.033 


tlolor, olive green; distin- 
guished from beryl by 




















its hardness and specific 












gravity. Acquires elec- 












tricity by friction. 


Tourmaline (Bra- 


2. 99-3. 22 


7-7.5 


Double. 1.625. 


. 028 


See previous tables. 


zilian emerald) 












Beryl (emerald 


2. 73-2. 76 


7.5-8. Speeimens 


Double. 1.585. 


.026 


Do. 


and aquama- 




vary. 








rine) . 












Quartz (chry.so- 
pra.se, plasma, 


2. 55-2. 7 


7 


Double. 1.549. 


.026 


l^or the colors of the sev- 










eral varieties see under 


prase, and jas- 










Quartz. 


per) . 












Turquoise 


2. 62-3 


6. May or may 






Can readily be distin- 
guished by its earthy, 






not .s e r a I e h 










gla.ss. Scratched 






compact appearance 






by quartz. 






and specific gravity. 



542 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



III. — f'omparatirc Uthlix of tlic colors and distinguisJmig rhdractn-s of the heller-hiown 

gems — Continued. 



VIII.— BLUE STONES. 



Name. 


Specific 
gravity. 


Hardness. 


Refraction and 

refractive 

index. 


Disper- 
sion. 


Remarks. 


Sapphire 


> 3.97-4.27 
3.5 -3.8 

3.54-3.6 
3.48-3.52 
2. 99-3. 22 

2. 73-2. 76 

2. 60-2. 65 

2.62-3 


9 


Double. 1.765. 
Single. 1.755- 

1.810. 
Double. 1.035. 
Single. 2.4.55.. 
Double. 1.625. 

Double. 1.585. 

Double. a= 
1.537; p=lM2; 
V=1.543. 


0.026 
.40 

. 025 

.38 

.028 

. 02(') 

Feeble 


See previous tal)les. 


8 


Do. 




S 


Do. 




10 


Rare. 


Tourmaline (iu- 
dicolite). 

Beryl (aquama- 
rine). 

Iollte(watcr.sap- 
phirc, flichro- 
ite). 

Turqnoi.se 


7-7.5 

7.5-8. Specimens 
vary. 

7 7 5 


See previous tables. 

Do. 

The chief distinguishing 
character of this stone is 
that it possesses a double 
color, i. e. , it is a fine blue 
or a yellow to smoke 
gray as it is viewed in 
the direction of its base 
or the planes of the 
prism, which is its crys- 
talline form. 


6 











IX.— VIOLET OR AMETHYSTINE STONES. 



Sapphire (orien- 
tal amethyst). 
Garnet , 



Spinel 



Diamond 

Tourmaline 

Quartz ( ii ni e - 
thy.st). 



3. 97-4. 27 



3. 5 -4. 3 



3.5 -3.8 

3. 48-3. 52 
2. 99-3. 22 
2. 55-2. 7 



6.5-7.5. Varies, 
but in general 
is above 7. 

8 



10.... 

7-7.5 . 
7 



Double. 



Single. 



Single. 
1.810. 
Single. 
Double. 
Double. 



1.765. 


0.026 


1.759.. 


.033 


1.7.5.5- 


.040 


2.455.. 


.38 


1.625. 


. 028 


1.549. 


. 026 



Sec previous tables. 
Do. 



Do. 
Do. 
Do. 



X.— BLACK-COLORED STONES. 



Sapphire 

Garnet (schorlo- 


3.96-4.27 


9 


Double. 


1.765. 


0.026 


See previous 


tables. 


3.5 -4.3 


6.5-7.5. Varies, 


Single. 


1.759.. 


.033 


Do. 




mite). 




but in general 
will scratch 
quartz. 












Spinel 


3. 5 -3. 8 


8 


Single. 
1.81. 


1.7.5.5- 


.040 


Do. 










Diamond 


3.48-3.52 
2.99-3.22 
2. .55-2. 77 


10...'. 


Single. 

Double. 

Double. 


2.455.. 
1.625. 
1.549. 


.38 

.028 

.026 


Do. 
Do. 
Do. 






7 7 5 






7 











CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 



54a 



III. — Comparatirr tahJcit of tin 



ilorx tnid (HxtuujninJi'nHj cJniradrrs (if tlir lirllfr-liioirn 
gems — Continued. 



XL— GEMS POSSESSING .V 



PLAY OF COLOR OR EXHIBITINii 
OPALESCENT EFFECT. 



A THATOYAXT OR 



[No attention is here paid to the grounri or body color of the gem, but only to the play of ('olor, 
chatoyancy. and opale.'ioenee. These efYeets may l)e of several kinds. In some, as in the opal and 
labradorile, there may be a variety of hues of eolor, which change as the gem is viewed fnrni differ- 
ent positions; in others there may be a reflection having the appearance of a white six-rayed star 
on the body or ground color of the gem, as in the .sapphire; or the reflection may have the appear- 
ance of a point or mass of pearly light, which .sometimes appear.s to occupy the whole of the stone, 
and which varies according to the inclination given to the gem. The moonstone is an example of 
this clas.s.] 

(a) Gems having x play of color or iridescence. 



Specific 
gravity. 



Refraction and 

refractive 

index. 



Disper- 
sion. 



Opal. 



Labradorite 



1.9 -2.3 
Common- 
ly 2.1. 

2.72 



5.5-6.5. Varies, 
but in general 
will scratch 
glass slightly. 

6. Scratches glass 
slightly. 



Oligoclase (heli- 
olite sunstone. ) 
Albite (peristcr- 
ite). 



.do . 



.do , 



(b) Gems having star-like reflections, asteria. 



Corundum (star 
ruby, star sap- 
phire, asteria). 

Garnet 

Tourmaline 



3.5-4.3 
2. 99-3. 22 



9 Double ... 



6.5-7.5 Single . 

7-7.5 Double, 



(c) Gems having chatoyant reflections. 



C h r y s o b e r y 1 

(cymophane). 

Beryl 

Quartz (cat's-eye) 
Ort hoclase 

(moonstone) . 
Albite (moon- 
stone). 



2. 73-2. 76 
2. 35-2. 7 
2.4 -2.6 



8.5 . . . 
7.5-S . 

6 

6 



Double 
do. 



XII.— GEMS HAVING A NACREOUS LUSTER. 



Pearl 


2. 5-2. 7 
2.33 


2.5-3.5 








A p p h y 1 1 i t e 
(Ichthyopthal- 
mite, fish-eye- 
stone). 


4.5-5 

















544 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



IV. INDEX OF NAMES OF GEMS. 



Achirite, see Dioptase. 

Achroite, see Tournialine. 

Actinolite, .see Cat's-eye. 

Adamantine spar, see Cornnduin. 

Adnlaria, see Orthoclase. 

Agate, see Quartz. 

Agatized wood, see Ciuaitz. 

Alabaster, see Gypsum. 

Alaska diamond, see Quart?. 

Alexandrite, see Chrysoberyl. 

Allanite. 

Almandite, see Garnet. 

Aniazonstone, see Microline. 

Amethyst, see Quartz. 

Amethyst (oriental), see Corundum. 

Anata.se, see Octahedrite. 

Ancona ruby, see Quartz. 

Andalusite. 

Andradite, see (iarnet. 

Anhydrite. 

Apatite. 

Apophyllite. 

Asteria, see Corundum. 

Asteria, see Quartz. 

Aquamarine, see Beryl. 

Aragonite, see Carl)onate of lime. 

Arkansite, see Brookite. 

Aiitomolite, see Spinel. 

Aventurine, see Oligoclase. 

Aventurine, see Orthoclase. 

Aventurine, see (Quartz. 

Axinite. 

Azurite. 

Balas ruby, see Spinel. 

Banded agate, see Quartz. 

Barite. 

Basanite, see Quartz. 

Beekite, see Quartz. 

Beryl. 

Beryllonite. 

Bloodstone, see Quartz. 

Bort, see Diamond. 

Bone turquoise, see Odontolite, 

Aphrizite, see Tourmaline. 

Bottle stone, see Obsidian. 

Bowenite, see Serpentine. 

Brazilian diamond, see Quartz. 

Brazilian emerald, see Tourmaline. 

Brazilian i)ebble, see Quartz. 

Bnjuzite. 

Brookite. 

Cacholong, see Opal. 



Cairngorm, see Quartz. 

CaU'ite, see Carbonate of lime. 

Callainite, see Turquoise. 

Cancrinite. 

Carbonado, see Diamond. 

Carbuncle, see Garnet. 

Carnelian, see Quartz. 

Cassiterite. 

Catlinite. 

Ceylonite, see Spinel. 

Chalcedony, see Quartz. 

Chiastolite, see Andalusite. 

Chlorastrolite, see Prehnite. 

Chloromelanite, see Jade. 

Chlorophane, see Fluorite. 

Chlorospinel, see Spinel. 

Chondrodite. 

Chromic iron. 

Chrysoberyl. 

Chrysocolla. 

Chrysolite, see Olivine. 

Chrysolite (Oriental) , see Chrysoberyl. 

Chrysoi)rase, see Quartz. 

Cinnamon stone, see Garnet. 

Citrine (juartz, see Quartz. 

Coal. 

Cobaltite. 

Cobra-stone, see Fluorite. 

Colophonite, see Garnet. 

Congo emerald, see Dioptase. 

Coral, see Carbonate of lime. 

Cornelian, see Quartz. 

Corundum. 

Crocidolite. 

Cymophane, see Chrysoberyl. 

Cyprine, see Vesuvianite. 

Damourite. 

Datolite. 

Demantoid, see Garnet. 

Diamond. 

Diaspoi'e. 

Dichroite, see lolite. 

Diopside. 

Dioptase. 

Disthene, see Kyanite. 

Dumortierite. 

Dysluite, see Spinel. 

Egyptian jasper, see Quartz. 

Emerald, see Beryl. 

Emerald (Brazilian), see Tourmaline. 

Emerald (Congo), see Dioptase. 

Emerald (Evening), see Olivine. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS, 



545 



Emerald (Oriental), see Corunduiii. 

Enu'rald (I'ralian), sec Garnet. 

Enstatite. 

Epidote. 

Essonite, see Garnet. 

Euclase. 

Eye agate, .see (Quartz. 

Eye-stone, see Quartz. 

Fairy stone, see Staurol'' 

Fire opal, see Opal. 

Fish-eye stone, see Apophyllite. 

Fleehe d'ainour, see Quartz. 

Fluorite. 

Fossil ooral, .see Carbonate of lime. 

Fossil coral, see (Quartz. 

Fossil turquoise, see Odontolite. 

Fovvlerite, see Rhodonite. 

Gadolinite. 

Gahnite, see Spinel. 

Garnet. 

Girasol, see Gorundum. 

Gold. 

Gold quartz, see Gold. 

Gothite. 

Grajjhic granite, see Pegmatite. 

Grenat syriam, see Garnet. 

Grossularite, see Garnet. 

Guarnaccino, see Garnet. 

Gyjisum. 

Harletjuin opal, see Opal. 

Heliolite, see Oligoclase. 

Heliotrope, see Quartz. 

Hematite. 

Hercynite, see 8pinel. 

Hiddenite, see Spi^dumene. 

Hornblende. 

Hornstone, see Quartz. 

Hyacinth, see Garnet. 

Hyacinth, see Zircon. 

Hyaline, see Quartz. 

Hyalite, see Opal. 

Hyalosiderite, see Olivine. 

Hydrophane, see Opal. 

Hypersthene. 

Iceland agate, see Obsidian. 

Ichthyophthalmite, see Apophyllite. 

Idocrase, see Vesuvianite. 

Ilmenite. 

Indicolite, see Tourmaline. 

lolite. 

Iris, see Quartz. 

Isopyre. 

Jacinth, see Zircon. 

Jade. 



Jargon, see Zircon. 

Jargoon, see Zircon. 

Jasper, see CJuartz. 

Jet, see Coal. 

Job's tears, see Olivine. 

Kyanite. 

Labradorite. 

Lapis-lazuli. 

Lechosos opal, see Opal. 

Leelite, see Orthoclase. 

Leopardite, see Porphyry. 

Lepidolite. 

Lintonite, see Thomsonite. 

Lithia emerald, see Spodumene. 

Lithoxyle, see Oi^al. 

Lodestone, see Magnetite. 

Lydian stone, see Quartz. 

Made, see Anadahisite. 

Magnetite. 

Malachite. 

Marble, see Car])onate of lime. 

Marcasite, see Pyrite. 

Marekanite, see Obsidian. 

Melanite, see Garnet. 

Microlite. 

Milky quartz, see Quartz. 

Mocha stone, see Quartz. 

Moldavite, see Obsidian. 

Monazite. 

Mont Blanc ruljy, see Quartz. 

Moonstone, see Oligoclase. 

Moonstone, see Orthoclase. 

Morion, see Quartz. 

Moss agate, see (Quartz. 

Moss (jpal, see Opal. 

Mountain mahogany, see Obsidian. 

Miillers glass, see Opal. 

Natrolite. 

Nephrite, see Jade. 

Nicolo, see Quartz. 

Nigrine, see Rutile. 

Obsidian. 

Octahedrite. 

Odontolite. 

Oligoclase. 

Olivine. 

Onyx, see Carbonate of lime. 

Onyx, see Quartz. 

Oolite, see Carbonate of lime. 

Opal. 

Opalized wood, see Opal. 

Orthoclase. 

Ouac^hita stone, see Quartz. 

Ouvarovite, see Garnet. 



54r3 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1990. 



Pearl, see Carbonate of lime. 

Pearlyte, see Obsidian. 

Pegmatite. 

Peridot, see Olivine. 

Peristerite, see Albite. 

Perthite, see Orthoclase. 

Phantom quartz, see (.Quartz. 

Phenacite. 

Pipestone, see Catlinite. 

Pisolite, see Caleite. 

Plasma, see Quartz. 

Pleonast, see Spinel. 

Porphyry. 

Prase, see Quartz. 

Prehnite. 

Pseudonephrite, see Jade. 

Pyrite. 

Pyrope, see Garnet. 

Quartz. 

Khodolite, see Garnet. 

Rhodonite. 

Ribband jasper, see Quartz. 

Rock crystal, see Quartz. 

Romanzovite, see (iarnet. 

Rose quartz, see Quartz. 

Rubasse, see C^uartz. 

Rubellite, see Tourmaline. 

Rubicelle, see Spinel. 

Rubino-di-rocca, see Garnet. 

Ruby, see Corundum. 

Rutile. 

Sagenite, see Quartz. 

St. Stephen's stone, see, Quartz. 

Samarskite. 

Saphir d'eau, see lolite. 

Sapphire, see Corundum. 

Sapphire, see Quartz. 

Sard, see Quartz. 

Sardonyx, see Quartz. 

Satin spar, see Carbonate of lime. 

Satin spar, see Gypsum. 

Saussurite, see Jade. 

Saxon topaz, see Quartz. 

Scapolite. 

Schorl, see Tourmaline. 

Scotch topaz, see Quartz. 

Serpentine. 

Siderite, see Quartz. 

Silicified wood, see Opal. 

Silicified wood, see Quartz. 

Smithsonite. 

Smoky quartz, see Quartz. 

Sodalite. 



Spanish topaz, see Quartz. 

Si)essartite, see Garnet. 

Sphaerulite, see Obsidian. 

Sphene, see Titanite. 

Spinel. 

Spodumene. 

Stalagmite, see Carbonate of lime. 

Star quartz, see Quartz. 

Star ruby, see Corundum. 

Star sapphire, see Corundum. 

Staurolite. 

Succinite, see Amber. 

Sun.stone, see Oligoclase. 

Sunstone, see Orthoclase. 

Tabasheer, see Opal. 

Thetis' -liair stone, see Quartz. 

Thomsonite. 

Thulite, see Epidote. 

Tiger-eye, see Crocidolite. 

Titanite. 

Toad's-eye stone, see Cassiterite. 

Topaz. 

Topaz (false), see Quartz. 

Topaz (oriental), see Corundum. 

Topaz (Saxon), see Quartz. 

Topaz (Scotch), see Quartz. 

Toi)az (smoky), see Quartz. 

Topaz (Spanish), see Quartz. 

Topazolite, see Garnet. 

Touchstone, see Quartz. 

Tourmaline. 

Turkis, see Turquois. 

Turquois. 

Turquois (bone), see Odontolite. 

Turquois (fossil), see Odontolite. 

Uralian emerald, see Garnet. 

Utahite, see Variscite. 

Variolite, see Orthoclase. 

Variscite. 

Venus' -hair stone, see Quartz. 

Verde antique, see Serpentine. 

Vesuvianite. 

Volcanic glass, see Obsidian 

Vulpinite, see Anhydrite. 

Water sapphire, see lolite. 

Wernerite, see Scapolite. 

Willemite. 

Wilsonite, see Scapolite. 

Wiluite, see Garnet. 

Wolf's-eye- stone, see Crocidolite. 

Wood tin, see Cassiterite. 

Zircon. 

Zonochlorite, see Prehnite. 



I 






CATALOGUE OF OEMS, 547 



V. THE CUTTING OF GEM STONES. 

The cutting- of ocin stones is neeessary for the complete deveU)p- 
nient of those properties upon which their l)e!iut3' laroely depends. 
Rarely does the oeni stone, as found in nature, present those qualities 
which make it attractive to the e^'e. In its natural state it is often 
opaque, dull, or flawed, and even if transparent and Hawless its form 
is rarely adapted to the display of those characters which distinguish 
the fashioned stone. Occasionally a gem stone may, without artificial 
treatment, show to a sufficient degree those qualities which give it 
rank; but such cases are rare, and in order that its inherent beauty 
may be developed to the maxinuun it should be cut and polished. 

The several styles of cut may all be brought under one or the other 
of the following heads: I. Those bounded by plane surfaces only. II. 
Those bounded by curved surfaces only. III. Those bounded ])y l)oth 
curved and plane surfaces. The several examples under the above 
heads may be tabulated thus: 

I. Bounded by plane surfaces: 
Brilliant cut. 

Double brilliant or Lisbon cut. 
Half brilliant or single cut. 
Trap or split brilliant cut. 
Portuguese cut. 
Star cut. 

Rose cut, or briolette. 
Step brilliant or mixed cut. 
Ta))le cut. 
II. Bounded by curs-ed surfaces: 
Double cabochon cut. 
Single cabochon cut. 
Hollow cabochon cut. 
III. Bounded by curved and plane surfaces — mixed caljochon cut. 

BRILLIANT CUT. 

The brilliant cut may be described as two truncated pyramids, placed 
base to base. The upper pyramid is called the crown^ and is so trun- 
cated as to give a large plane surface; the lower one, called tho. jxiull- 
ion, terminates almost in a point. The line of union of the two 
pyramids is called the {lirdlc, and is the widest part of the stone. This 
fashion of cut, though occasionally modified as to the size, mutual pro- 
portions, and even the number of facets, lequires, when perfect, 58 
facets. The uppermost facet is called the crown., and is formed by 
removing one-third of the thickness of the fundamental octahedron; 
the lowermost facet is called the ciilet., or collet^ and is formed by 
removing one-eighteenth of the thickness of the stone {a and ?>, in 
text fig. 14). The triangular facets touching the table (s in c, fig. 14) 
are called star facets; those touching the girdle fall into two groups, 



548 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



skill facets {E in c) uikI .skew facets (D in <■). The corner facets touch- 
ing the tiiblc and uirdle on the crown (B in c), and the culet and girdle 
on the pavilion (Q in d) are called qaohis. The facets between the 
quoins, and touching the table and girdle when on the crown, and the 
culet and girdle when on the pavilion, are called, respectively, hezel 









J <J 

Fig. 14. 
THE BRILLIANT. 

a and h, manner in which the brilliant is derived from the fundamental form; c, d, and e, top, side, 
and back view of brilliant with 58 facets; /, g, and /(, top, side, and back view of modified brilliant 
with 66 facets. 

facets (A in c) and imvilion facets (P in d). The total number of 
facets are distributed as follows: 1 table, 16 skill facets, 16 skew facets, 
8 star facets, 8 (pioins, -i bezel facets, -i pavilion facets, and 1 culet, 
as shown in c, d^ and e of the text figures, representing the top, side, 
and bottom views of a brilliant with 58 facets. Occasionally the cut 
is modified by cutting extra facets around the culet, making 'o^ in all. 



catalogup: of gems. 



549 



Tlio brilliiint cut i.s cspcciiilly applied to the diiiinoMfl, and when per- 
fect should ])(» of the follow! ng proportions: From the table to the 
girdle, one-third, and from the girdle to the culet two-thirds of the 
total. The diameter of the table should ])e four-ninths of the breadth 
of the stone. When applied to other stones these proportions are 
more or less modified to suit their individual optical constants. 

DOUBLE BRILLIANT CUT. 




b 

Fig. 15. 

THE DOUBLE BRILLIANT. 

Top (a), side (6), and back (c) view. 



The double brilliant, or Lisbon cut, is a form with two rows of 
lozenge-shaped facets, and three rows of triangular-shaped facets, 74 
in all. The figure shows top («), side (J), and bottom (c) views of this 
fashion. 

HALF BRILLIANT CUT. 

The half brilliant, single, or old English cut is the simplest form of 
the brilliant, and is generally employed for stones too small to admit 






Fig. 10. 

THE HALF BRILLIANT. 

Top (a) and side (6) view of the lia'.f brilliant. In c the top is cut in the form of a star, then called 

English single-cut. 



of numerous facets. The figure shows top {<() and side (h) views of 
this style of cut. Occasionally the top is cut so as to form a star {c in 
fig. 16) and then called English single-cut. 



550 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 
TRAP BRILLIANT CUT. 





// 
Fig. 17. 

THE TRAP BRII.I.I.VNT. 

Top (a), .side (b), and back (c) view. 




The trap brilliant, or .split brilliant, diflfer.s from the full brilliant i 
havini^ the foundation squares divided horizontally into two trianyula 
facet.s, niakini>" 42 in all. \ 






PORTUGUESE CUT. 






b 
Fig. 18. 

THE PORTUGUESE CUT. 

Top (a), side (6), and back (c) view. 



The figures show the top, side, and bottom views of the Portuguese 
cut, which has two rows of rhomboidal and three rows of triangular 
facets above and below the o-irdle. 



STAR CUT. 





Fig. 19. 
THE STAR CUT. 

Front (a) and back (b) view. 



The figures show the front and back view^s of the star cut. The 
table i.s hexagonal in shape, and is one-fourth of the diameter of the 



CATALOGUE OF OEMS. 



551 



stone; from the table spring six cquihiteral trianolos, whose apices 
touch the girdle, and these triangles, In' the prolongation of their 
points, form a star. 

ROSE CUT. 

The rose cut differs from the brilliant cut in that the crown consists 
of triangular or star facets, whose apices meet at the point or crown 
of the rose. The base lines of these star facets form the ))ase lines for 
a vow of skill facets whose apices touch the girdle, leaving spaces 




b 
Fig. 20. 

THE ROSE CUT. 

a and h, top and side view; c, side view of a double rose. 



which are each cut into two facets. The base ma}^ be flat or the bot- 
tom ma}' be cut like the crown, making a double rose or briolette cut. 
The shape of a rose-cut stone may be circular, oval, or indeed any 
other that the rough gem may permit. 



TRAP OR STEP CUT. 



In the trap or step cut the facets run longitudinal!}' around the 
stone from the table to the girdle and from the girdle to the culet. 
There are usually but two or three sets of step facets from the table 




Fig. 21. 
UPPER AND UNDER SIDE OF TRAP CUT. 



to the girdle, while the number of steps from the girdle to the culet 
depends upon the thickness and color of the stone. The fashion is 
best adapted to emeralds and other colored stones. 
^-AT Mus IHOo 88 



552 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 
STEP BRILLIANT OR MIXED CUT. 





Fig. 22. 

THE STEP BRILLIANT CUT. 



Here the form from culet to girdle is the same as that of the trap 
cut, while from the g-irdle to the table the stone is brilliant cut, or 
the opposite. 

TABLE CUT. 



\ 




/ 








/ 




\ 



Fisr. 2;?. 

TOP ANO SIDE VIEW OF TABLE CUT. 



The table cut consists simply of a greatly developed table and culet 
meeting the girdle with beveled edges. Occasionally the 8 edge 
facets are replaced >>y a border of 16 or more facets. 



CABOCHON CUT. 








Fig. 24. 

THE CABOCHON CUT. 

a, the single caboehon; h, the double cabochon; c, the hollow cabochon; d, flat or tallow-top 

cabochon; e, mi.xed cabochon. 

The cabochon cut is usually applied to opaque, translucent, deep 
colored, or chatoyant stone.s. The double cabochon is usually cut with 
a smaller curvatui-c on the base than on the crown. The singb 



i- 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 



553 



cabochon is a characteristic cut for the turquoise. The hollow cabochon 
lii adapted to very deep colored transparent stones. The mixed 
cabochon has either the edge or side faceted, or both. In all of the 
cabochon cuts the arches may be of a varying degree of flatness, 
depending upon the nature of the stone. 



VI. IMITATIONS, SOPHISTICATIONS, AND ARTIFICIAL 
FORMATION OF GEMS. 

Practically all of the gem stones have been and are successfully 
imitated. Deceptions are practiced by means of imitations, pure and 
simple; or by combining a genuine stone with an imitation, or an 
inferior one with a superior; b)^ substituting one stone for another; 
or by intensifying, improving, or changing the color of a stone. 

The basis of most imitation gems is a lead glass of great brilliancy 
called paste or strass. Its composition varies considerably, but a 
typical mixture is the following: 

Pure powdered quartz 38. 2 

Red lead 53. 3 

Potassium carbonate 7.8 

The materials are caref u'ly powdered, mixed, and heated in a crucible. 
The temperature is gradually raised to fusion and carefully kept at 
that point for about thirty hours, after which it is very slowly low- 
ered. The value of the product depends entirely on the intimacy of 
the previous admixture, the regularity of temperature, the duration 
of fusion, and the slowness of cooling. 

Imitation diamonds are cut from the uncolored paste, but for the 
imitation of colored gems the desired color is imparted by the solution 
of certain metallic oxides and other substances in the paste, some of 
the more typical mixtures being given in the following table :^ 





Strass. 


Glass of 
anti- 
mony. 


Purple 
cassius. 


Gold. 


Cobalt 
oxide. 


Copper 
oxide. 




Iron 
oxide. 


Urani- 
um tri- 
oxide. 


Ruby 


1,000 
1,000 
1,000 
1,000 
1,000 
1,000 
1,000 
1,000 
1,0D0 
1,000 
1,000 
1,000 
1,000 
1,000 


40 


1 


1 


















Trace. 








5 
25 






















Sapphire 




14 
25 



























TopMZ 


40 


1 




























1(1 


Emerald 








8 
8 


0.2 












1 




0.53 








Amethyst 






25 
5 
5 










8 
500 


0.2 

2 


















8 






Garnet 


1 to 8 














4 










4 






Aquaniariiif 


1,000 7 




0.4 

























i 



1 Thorpe's Dictionary of Applied Chemistry, II, p. 222. 



554 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

These proportions admit of considerable variation. For example, 
borate and chloride of silver are added to produce topaz yellow; or the 
first mixture i>-iven for topaz is, after fusion, mixed with 8 parts of 
strass and re-fused for thirt}' hours and used as a ru))y glass. The 
ruby composition is colorless and onl}^ acquires its color upon re-fusion, 
the de})th of color l)eino- varied ])y the addition of compounds of tin. 

These imitations can, as a rule, be readily detected. They are defi- 
cient in hardness and A-^ield readih^ to the file. Further, they aie liable 
to tarnish in impure air, are not pleochroic as the majority of colored 
gems are, and under the magnifying glass they show the many lines, 
striae, and bubbles characteristic of fused glassy masses. Final Iv they 
differ in specific gravity from the gems they represent. 

Instead of a purely imitative preparation being used, what is known 
as a "doublet" may be constructed.' The doublet is made up of the 
table and crown of a genuine stone, usually somewhat off-colored, 
cemented to a pavilion made of a paste having the approved color, 
thus giving the valueless crown the appearance of a fine stone. The 
doublet usually betrays itself by the softness of its pavilion. To avoid 
this the "triplet" has been devised. This consists of a crown and 
pavilion made usually from a pale or off-colored stone with a thin layer 
of colored glass at the girdle. Here the hardness test will be found 
wanting and the magnifying glass and specific gravit}' test nmst be 
used. The glass usualh" distinguishes the composite nature of the 
triplet, and if soaked in alcohol, carbon bisulphide, or ether, the fraud 
will usually betray itself by falling to pieces. 

The manufacture of imitation pearls by coating the inner surfaces 
of glass beads with a preparation made from the scales of certain fishes 
is extensively carried on as a home industry in the glass-iuaking centers 
of Europe. The manufacture of the fish-scale extract, as carried on in 
Thuringia, is substantially as follows: Four to five pounds of l)leak scales 
(obtained from the Baltic) are washed in fresh water to remove dirt; they 
are then churned for about two hours in six quarts of cold fresh wate;r 
and the whole subjected to pressure in a linen hag. The silvery, lustrous 
runnings are caught and set aside and the operation repeated until the 
scales have lost their silvery appearance. The runnings, to which a 
little ammonia has been added, are put aside to clarify, care being 
taken to prevent putrefaction. The sediment is washed repeatedly 
with fresh water and left to settle. AVhen the washings are quite 
clear, the lustrous sediment is bottled with its own volume of alcohol, 
shaken, and allowed to settle. The alcohol is then decanted off' and the 
operation repeated until the sediment has lost its water and has the 
consistency of butter. For use, th(> preparation is mixed, in small 
quantities, with a hot aqueous solution of gelatin to which a small 
amount of alcohol has been added. Colored pearls are made from it 
by the addition of the desired coal-tar dyestufi'. 



CATALOGUK <>K GKMS. 555 

Sophistications iiu'ludo suhstitutos puiv and simple, such as substi- 
tutino- (juartz. whitc^ topaz, zircon, or other colorless stones for the 
diamond, and so on. Ov the stone may be treated with chemicals or 
heat to heiuhten or change its color. Topaz, sapphire, and other 
stones may have their color removed or their brilliancy increased by 
heatino-. 'I'ho color of the wine-yellow Brazilian topaz is changed to 
a rose pink by heat; an oil' colored or spotted diamond is made to 
appear whiter and more brilliant by the same means. The color of 
the cairngorm, citrine quartz, and other stones is" altered and improved 
in a similar manner. The color of the turquoise is deepened and its 
permanency increased bj^ treating it with solutions of certain chemicals. 
The colors of agates, chalcedony, ch^3^soprase, etc.. may be changed 
or improved with the aid of dyes and chemicals, and in a similar man- 
ner imitation moss agates may be manufactured from colorless chalce- 
dony. An off colored diamond may be given a wash of aniline blue, 
and the result is apparently a stone of good water as long as the wash 
remains. The interior of a setting may be backed, painted, or enam- 
eled ; in fact, there are a hundred or more methods by means of which 
a tint is improved or given a beauty and depth not inherent in the 
specimen. 

A sharp distinction is to be drawn between the imitation of a gem 
stone and its formation l)y artificial methods. The imitation gem only 
simulates the natural su])stance; the artificial gem is identical with it in 
all its chemical and physical properties. Until recently the laborator}'^ 
gem was hardly more than a curiosit}", though its synthesis has 
undoubtedly been of value from a theoretical standpoint. Examples 
of this class are to be found in the diamond as produced by Moissan in 
the electric furnace and the synthesis of spinel and chrysoberyl b\' 
Ebelmen from mixtures of alumina and glucina, respectively, using 
])oric acid at very high temperatures as a solvent. H^^drotluoric acid 
and silicon fluoride have also been used to induce combination between 
silica and other oxides. In this manner topaz, a complex fluo-silicate, 
has been made by the action of fluoride of silicon upon alumina. 

The minerals thus formed have usually been verv small and of no 
commercial value. Quite recently, however, rubies have been pro- 
duced by the fusion of alumina with traces of chromium oxide in the 
electric furnace, and the art has progressed to such an extent that the 
product is now on the market for sale as watch jewels. The electric 
furnace has also produced another product which, while strictly speak- 
ing, not a synthetic gem, yet is essentially an artificial one. Imperfect 
rubies, chips, and small stones are fused in the furnace together with 
the addition of a small amount of coloring oxide such as chromium. 
The fused product is then cut and polished, and the result is a ruby of 
good color and fairlv large size. Emeralds and other colored stones 
have been made in the same way, and so promising has the industry 



556 



REPORT t)F NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



become that the courts hav«^ l)een called iu to decide what constitutes a 
rubv. Their decision was in substance that the word ruby could be 
apjilied only to the red-colored corundum, anhydrous oxide of alumi- 
num occurring read^' formed in nature. 

VII. GEMS OF THE BIBLE. 

The Bible contains three lists of g-ems. The first of these is an 
account of the jewels on the ephod of Aaron. The ej>h(><l is described 
as having a front part and a back part fastened at each shoulder with 
an onyx mounted in gold and engrayed with the names of the children 
of Israel, six on each stone, to memorialize the Lord of the promise 
made to them. [Exodus xxviii, 6, 12, 29.] The breastplate was made 
of the same material as the ephod., and folded so as to form a kind of a 
pouch in which the U rim and Thummin were placed. [Exodus xxxix, 
9.] The external part of this gorget, or "breastplate of judgment" 
Avas set with four rows of gems, three in each row, each stone set in a 
golden socket and having engraved upon it the name of one of the 
twelve tribes of Israel. [Exodus xxviii, 17-20.] 

The following lists taken from Biblical antiquities by Adler and 
Casanowicz^ give the names of these stones in the original and in the 
Septuagint, together with the meaning adopted by most authorities, 
the rendering of the Revised Version, both in text and margin being 
added in parentheses: 



1. Odem (sardion), carnelian 


2. 


Pitdah [topazion), topaz or 


3. Barcketh (smaragdos), .smar- 


(sardius, ruby). 




peridot. 


agd or emerald (carbuncle 
emerald). 


4. Nofek {anthrax), carbimele, 


5. 


Sappir {sapfeiros), .«apphire 


(!. Vahalom (iaspis), onyx, a 


probably the Indian ruby 




or lapis lazuU (sapphire). 


kind of chalcedon (diamond, 


(emerald, carbuncle). 






sardonyx). 


7. Leshem {liyyrion), jacinth, 


8 


Shebo (achates), agate. 


9. Achlamah t amcth y stos). 


others, sapphire (jacinth. 






amethyst. 


amber). 








10. Tarshish {chrynolithos), 


:i. 


Shoham {bei~yllion) , beryl 


12. Yashpeh {ovychion), iasper. 


chrysolite, others, topaz. 




(onyx, beryl). 




(beryl, chalcedony). 









In many instances the equivalent of the Biblical names of gems is 
uncertain in the nomenclature of modern mineralogy, and as a conse- 
([uence there are several distinct lists of names given for the stones in 
the breastplate. In the Division of Oriental Religions in the U. S. 
National Museum is a very old silver breastplate employed as an orna- 
ment for the maiuiscript copy of the Torah, or Pentateuch, used in an 
ancient synagogue. The twelve stones, with the names of the twelve 
tribes, according to it are as follows: Garnet, Levi; diamond, Zebulon; 
amethyst. Gad; jasper, Benjamin; chrysolite, Simeon; sapphire, 

' Report of the U. S. National Museum, 1896, p. 94:1 



0ATALOC4UE OF GEMS. 



557 



Issachar; agate. Naphthali; onyx. Joseph: sard, Reuben; emerald, 
Judali; topaz. Dan; beryl, Asher. 

The second list is that given in the description of the ornaments of 
the Prince of Tyrus [Ezekiel xxviii, 13]: 



1. Ode in. 
4. Tai:''hish. 
7. Snppir. 



2. Pifdah. 
5. Sholtam. 
8. Nofek. 



3. Yahalom. 
6. YaKhpeh. 
>). Bareketh. 



The third list is that given in the description of the Heavenly City. 
[Revelations xxi, 19, 20. J As in the preceding list, the word used in 
the original or Septuagint is followed by the rendering given by most 
authorities, that of the Revised Version in parentheses: 



1. laspis, jiisper. 


2. Sa])fn'rox. sapphire or 
lazuli. 


lapis 


3. 


Chalkrdon, chalcedony. 


4. Smaragdos, smaragd (emer- 


5. Sitrdoni/.r, .siirdonyx. 




G. 


Sardios, sardius. 


ald). 










7. ChrysoHthos, chrysolite. 


8. Beryllos, beryl. 




9. 


Topazion, topaz. 


10. Chri/soprasos, chrysoprase. 


11 . Hyakintho!^. j a e i n t h 
phire). 


(sap- 


12. 


Amethyslog, amethyst. 



In addition to the gems enumerated in these lists, there is mentioned 
the diamond bv the Hebrew name of shamlr [Jeremiah xvii, 1; 
Ezekiel iii, d; Zechariah vii, 12]; amber, Hebrew hashmal (margin 
of Revised Version gives electrum) [Ezekiel i, 4.], and crystal (quartz) 
Hebrew qerah and gahkh [Ezekiel i, 22; Job xxviii, 18; Revelation 
iv, 6]. 

The complete list of gems mentioned being as follows: 

Agate (Hebrew sheho). — One of the stones in the breastplate of judgment, Exo- 
dus xxviii, 19. 

Amber (Hebrew hashmal). — Ezekiel i, 4. Some render the Hebrew leshem as 
amber, thus making it one of the gems in the breastplate. Exodus xxvii, 19. 

Amethyst (Hebrew ahlnmah) . —One of the stones in the breastplate. Exodus xxviii, 
19. In Revelation xxi, 20, it is mentioned as garnishing the twelfth foundation 
of the heavenlv Jerusalem. 

Berifl (Hebrew sholtam). — One of the stones in the l:)reastplate, P^xochis xxviii, 20. 
Mentioned as one of the ornaments of the King of Tyre, Ezekiel xxviii, 13. In 
Revelation it is spoken of as adorning the eighth foundation of the Holy City. 

Carbuncle (Hebrew nofek). — One of the stones in the l)reastplate. Exodus xxviii, 
18; see also Ezekiel xxviii, 13. The word nofek has been rendered ruby. 

('arnelian, perhaps the Hebrew odem of the lireastplate, Exodus xxviii, 17, and 
the sardius in Revelation xxi, 20. In Revelation iv, 3, of the revised version is 
the rendering sardius. In the Authorized Version the reading is: "And he that sat 
was to look upon like a jasper and a ."sardine stone." In the Vulgate: " Et qui rede- 
hat similis erat aspectui lapidis jaspiilis et sardinis." The Textus receptus (Greek) is: 
" A'cvi 6 KcxBifz-i^yoi i}v ofiotoc, opcidft A/Sgj ia6ni8i Kal dapSivco." All other edi- 
tions have for the last word, "dcxpSioj.'" It isevidentthat the Vulgate and the Author- 
ized Verson simply followed the Textus receptus, and that the correct rendering is 
"sardius" and not "sardine stone." 



558 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Chalcedony. — The Hebrew tarxfMi, Exodus xxviii, 20, has 1)een rendered chal- 
cedony. In Revelation xxi, 19, it is enumerated in the description of the founda- 
tion of the New Jerusalem. 

Chrysolite. — See Revelation xxi, 20. The Hebrew t(ir.shl.<ih, Exodus xxviii, 20, has 
been rendered chrysolite. 

Chrysoprase. — One of the stones in the foundation of the Heavenly City, Revela- 
tion xxi, 20. 

Diamond, Hebrew shamir. — See Jeremiah xvii, 1; Ezekiel iii, 9; and Zechariah 
vii, 12, where it is spoken of as an object of extreme liardness. In the Authorized 
Version the Hebrew yahafom, Exodus xxviii, 18, is rendered diamond. 

Emerald, Hebrew barekriJi. — One of the stones in the 1)reastplate; also see Revela- 
tion iv, 3. 

Jacmth, Hebrew leshem. — A stone in the breastplate, Exodus xxviii, 19. The 
eleventh foundation of the Heavenly Jerusalem, Revelation xxi, 20. 

Janper, Hebrew yashpeh. — A stone in the breastplate. Exodus xxviii, 20. Men- 
tioned as adorning the Prince of Tyrus, Ezekiel xxviii, 13. One of the stones 
enumerated in the description of the Heavenly City, Revelation xxi, 19. 

Onyx, Hebrew shoham. — One of the stones in the breastplate. Exodus xxviii, 20; 
see also Genesis, ii, 12; and Ezekiel xxviii, 13. According to certain renderings 
the shoham is beryl. Shohams set in gold were put on each of the two shoulder 
straps of the ephod of the high priest, and the two were engraved with the names of 
the twelve tribes, six on each, Exodus xxviii, 12. 

Ruby, Hebrew nofek or odem. — One of the gems in the breastplate, Exodus 
xxviii, 17; see also Ezekiel xxvii, 13. 

Sapphire, Hebrew sappir. — One of the stones in the breastplate. Exodus xxviii, 18; 
also mentioned in Ezekiel xxviii, 13, and Revelation xxi, 19. Some authorities 
render sappir as lapis lazuli, and not sapphire. 

Sardonyx, Hebrew yahalom. — One of the stones in the breastplate. Exodus 
xxviii, 18. 

Topaz, Hebrew pitdah. — One of the stones in the breastplate. Exodus xxviii, 17; 
also mentioned in Ezekiel xxviii, 13, and in Revelation xxi, 20. 

Pearl. — It is thought that pearl is meant by the Hebrew peninim., a word often 
employed in the Old Testament as a figure of something valuable and precious; see 
Proverbs iii, 5; xxxi, 10, and Job xxviii, 18. Jesus uses the pearl for the same 
purpose in Matthew vii, 6, and xiii, 45. / 

VIII. MYSTICAL PROPERTIES OF GEMS. 

Man has endowed gems with talismanic, curative, and supernatural 
powers. Certain gems preserved him from incubi, vampires, and 
kindred terrors; others preserved him from the powers of sorcerv or 
conferred the powers of witchcraft; by their aid he controlled the 
spirits of evil or was protected from their malign influence. With a 
suitable gem he could foretell the future, review the past, or conjure 
up pictures of events taking place at a distance. Protected by their 
mystic influences he feared neither plague nor poison, while his 
belief in the marvelous efficacy of their curative powers gave them a 
place among his most potent remedies. 

The virtues of gems were diverse. Some procured the favor of the 
great; others rendered their possessois amiable, wise, strong, and brave; 
some protected him from lire, lightning, and tempests; others from 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 



559 



danger and disease: some were preferred as talismans and charms; 
others were used as drugs, either alone or with eleetuaries, and with 
or without prayers, incantations, or other prescribed fornuilas. 

Certain gems brought good or evil through the planetary influence 
of certiiin days. All yellow gems were appropriate for Sunday wear 
through the name giver, the sun. On Monday, the moon day, all 
white stones, except the diamond, were to be worn. Tuesday, the da}^ 
of Mars, claimed garnets, ru))ies. and all red stones. Wednesdaj^ 
demanded blue stones. Thor's da}', or Thursday, required amethysts 
and other stones of a sanguine tint. Friday, the day of Venus, had 
for its gem the emerald. Saturn's day claimed the diamond. 

A particular stone was potent for good during a particular month, 
and, under the proper astrological control, was supposed to have a 
mystical influence over the twelve parts of the human anatomy. Such 
a gem was the more potent if the natal day of the wearer corresponded 
with its particular sign, and when worn as a birth or month stone was 
supposed to attract at all times propitious influences and avert malign 
eflfects. The more important stones, their zodiacal control, and most 
potent periods of influence are: 



stone. 


Zodiacal control. Period. 


Garnet 


Aquarius ... 


Jan. 21 to Feb. 21 


Amethyst 


Pisces . 


Feb.21 toMar.2:. 
Mar. 21 to Apr. 20. 
Apr.20 toMay 21. 
May 21 to June 21. 
June 21 to July 22. 
July 22 to Aug. 22. 
Aug. 22 to Sept. 22. 
Sept. 22 to Oct. 2S. 
Oct. 23 to Nov. 21. 
Nov. 21 to Dec. 21. 
Dec 21 to Jan 21 


Bloodstone 


Arifes 

Taurus 




Agate 


Emerald 




Onvx 


Leo 


Carnelian 




Chrysolite 


Libra ... . 


Aquamarine 




Topaz 

Ruby 


Sagittarius 











A closely related idea is found in the twelve stones which, accord- 
ing to the Jewish cabalists, when engraved each with an anagram of 
the name of God were supposed to have a m3^stical power over, and a 
prophetical relation to, the twelve angels. Thus: 

Ruby ^lalehediel. 

Topaz Aymodel. 

Carbuncle Ambriel. 

Emerald Muriel. 

Sapphire Herchel. 

Diamond Humatiel. 

Jacinth Znriel. 

Agate Barbiel. 

Amethyst Adnachiel. 

Beryl Humiel. 

Onyx (Tal>riel. 

Jasper Barchiel. 



560 



RErOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



These stones also had reference to the twelve tribes of Israel, the 
twelve parts of the human body, twelve hierarchies of devils, etc. By 
their aid a system of prognostication was practiced, based upon the 
change of hue or brilliancy of the stone, so that the cabalist was enabled 
to foretell future events. 




Fig:. 2n. 
THE ZODIACAL STONES WITH THEIR SKiNS [AFTER AN OLD PRINT]. 

The Twelve Apostles were represented, symbolically, by precious 
stones: Jasper, St. Peter: sapphire. St. Andrew: chalcedony, St. 
James; emerald, St. John; sardonyx, St. Philip; carnelian, St. Mat- 
thew; beryl, St. Thomas; chrysoprase, St. Thaddeus; topaz, St. flames 
the Less; hyacinth, St. Simeon; amethyst, St. Matthias. 

The superstitions connected with the twelve stones have persisted, 
in on(^ form or another, from the times of the Mag'ii to the present, 
and the ])elief in their virtues can still be traced in the wearing of 
"birthstones." 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 561 

By those who are in January born 
No gem save garnets should be worn; 
They will insure you constancy, 
True friendship and fidelity. 

The February l)orn will find, 
Sincerity and peace of mind — 
Freedom from passion and from care, 
If they the (Diii'thynt will wear. 

Who on this world of ours their eyes 
In March first open, shall be wise, 
In days of peril firm and l)rave, 
And wear a bloodstone to their grave. 

Those who in April date their yeai's. 
Diamonds should wear, lest bitter tears 
For vain repentance flow. This stone 
Emblem of innocence is known. 

Who first behold the light of day 
In spring's sweet flowery month of May, 
And wears an emerald, all her life, 
Shall be a loved and happy wife. 

Who comes with summer to this earth, 
And owes to June her day of birth, 
With ring of agate on her hand. 
Can health, wealth, and peace command. 

The glowing ruby should adorn 
Those who in warm July are born; 
Thus will they be exempt and free 
From love's doubts and anxiety. 

Wear a sardonyx, or for thee 

No conjugal felicity; 

The August born without this stone 

'Tis said nuist live unloved alone. 

A maiden ])orn when autumn's leaves 
Are rustling in September's breeze, 
A sapphire on her brow should bind, 
'Twill cure diseases of the mind. 

October's child is born for woe. 
And life's vicissitudes must know; 
But lay an ojitd on her breast. 
And hope will lull tlie woes to rest. 

Who first comes to this world l)elow, 
With dull Novendier's fog and snow. 
Should prize the tojjaz amber hue. 
Emblem of friends and lovers true. 

If cold December gave you birth, 
The month of snow and ice and mirth, 
Place on your hand a turquoise blue — 
Success will bless vou if vou do. 



562 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



In the Sympathia Septer.i MetaJlorum ac Septem Seleetorwni Lap- 
idum ad Planetas is a list of stones recorded as being in sympathy 
with the planets, and as suc-h were possessed of astrological and medic- 
inal properties which, under the proper sign, rendered them of service 
to men. Thus- — 

[Ij ] Saturn Turquoise, sapphire. 

\_ll'\ Jupiter Caruelian, topaz, amethyst. 

[ <? ] Mars .Tasper, emerald. 

[?] Venus Emerald, amethyst, topaz. 

[5] Mercury... Crystal, agate, emerald. 

[ j)] Moon Moonstone, topaz, and all white stones. 

[©] S'^i^i Diamond, ruby. 




Fig. 26. 

THK FlfU'I'.ES OF THE PLANETS WITH THEIR SIGNIFICANT STONES [AFTER AN OLD PRINTj. 

The Ilhuhi propitiated hostile stars by the bestowal of gems, if the 
sun was hostile, a pure ruby; the moon, a good pearl; if sani^ a star 
affecting to a powerful degree the destinies of men, a sapphire. He 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 563 

also avertod the evil effects of adverse astral influences by wearing 
certain stones. If the sun was adverse, the cat's-eye; if the moon, the 
sapphire, etc. 

The mystic ascribed a certain significance both to the gem and to 
its various colors. For example, white was the emblem of light, purity, 
faith, innocence, joy, and life; worn l)y women it was emblematic of 
chastity; by the ruler, of humility and integrity. Red signified pure 
love and wisdom; in another sense it signified passion, love of evil, 
hatred, etc. Blue was indicative of truth constancy, and fidelity. 
Yellow in one sense was symbolical of marriage and faithfulness; in 
another sense of inconstancy, jealousy, and deceit. Green was the 
color of hope, especially that of immortalit}". Amethystine signified 
love, truth, passion, sufl^ering, and hopefulness, and among the Rosi- 
crucians was symbolical of the divine male sacrifice. 

Stones of all sorts were engraved with the figure of a cockatrice, 
which, under the proper planetary influence, were preservatives against 
the evil eye. The names of Jesus, Mary, and Joseph were engraved 
on stones, chiefly amethj'st, onyx, and bloodstone, which were worn as 
preventives of contagious diseases, the larger the stone, the greater 
its eflicacy. Gems were also supposed to indicate the state of health 
of the donor or wearer. If the stone became dull, opaque, or colorless 
it was thought to be significant of danger and death. In a similar 
manner they lost or changed color in contact with poisons. 

Dreaming of gems was usuallj' fraught with good, while seeing or 
handling them on the eve of a journey, or at certain phases of the 
moon, was regarded as auspicious. 

Supernatural influences have been attributed to gems which still pass 
current. For example, an onyx ring, supposed to be the espousal ring 
of Mary and Joseph, exhibited in the Duomo of Perugia, is thought 
to be eflicacious in the cure of every disorder. Amber is still used as 
a prophylactic and curative for goiter, croup, and diseases of the 
throat. The opal is thought by many to Ijring ill luck to the wearer. 
The coral is still believed to be a charm against diseases of childhood, 
and is extensively worn in Ital}' as a protection against the " evil eye." 
Pearls are dreaded by some and favored by others. No French bride 
will wear them on her wedding day, since the}^ would bring tears to 
hei" married life. In the East the believers are dogmatic in their faith 
and it is heresy to assert that the use of gems has no practical influence 
over l)ody or mind. 

It is impossible here to do more than hint at the many beliefs con- 
cerning gems which were or are current, and the following notes 
merely suggest a few of the more prevalent lieliefs on this subject. 

Agate. — Emblematic of health and wealth. An enemy to all venom- 
ous things; assauges thirst when held in the mouth; gives victory to its 
wearer; repels storms; sharpens the sight; preserves and increases 



564 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 19()0, 

strengtli, tind renders its Avearor o-niciou.s and elociuent. (Camillus 
Leonardu.s, Speculum Lapiduni. 1502.) P^fficacious as an amulet 
against sci-ofula and skin diseases. (Albertus Ma^'nus, De Vertutibus 
Herbarium, Lapidum, Animalum, etc.) Various properties are attrib- 
uted to it b}^ Mohammedan authorities. It cured insanitj^ when admin- 
istered wit!) water or Avith the juice of the fruit Sheit (an apple?); a 
remed}' for hemorrhage in the genitjil organs or in the rectum; for 
the spitting of blood; for the unusual discharge of the menstrual fluid. 
In conjunction with other medicines it cured hard })oils and porous 
ulcers, gi'avel, spleen, and kidney troubles. It prevented bleeding of 
the gums and rendered them hard when applied to the parts as a 
calcined powder. 

Agates having the reddishiiesw (jf the water after washing raw flesh in the shaj^e of 
finger rings prevent bleeding of all kinds. The wearer strikes terror to the heart 
of his enemies, obtains his iieart's wishes from the gods, and becomes free from pain 
in the breast. 

The J A' /A- (agate) confers upon the wearer all the blessings that the use of the turquoise 
does. Its internal use may do harm to the stomach, but this can be avoided by mix- 
ing it with Katlra, or, in its absence, with the Basud stone. (Views of Arabic and 
Persian writers on gems and stones.) 

If taken internally, the agate drives away fear, increases the power of digestion, 
cures insanity and monomania of that kind which creates the impression of being 
beaten and abused by others. If worn, it cures stricture and the vomiting of blood 
coming fro n the chest; worn on the neck, it cures the spitting of blood issuing from 
the lungs at the time of coughing. Calcined, powdered, and administered with white 
wine in doses weighing 16 barleycorns, it cured the gravel. If tied about the thighs 
of a woman under painful labor, it helps to a speedy and easy delivery. The weight 
of the stone here prescribed should l)e about 120 barleycorns. (Ben Adloulah. ) 

The eye-agate vas considered efficacioits as an anuilet in cases of 
scrofula and other skin diseases. In great repute to-day in Syria as a 
curative for "'Aleppo" sores. 

Pierre de Boniface, writing in 1316, said: 

The agate of India or Crete renders its j^ossessor eloquent and prudent, amiable 
and agreeable. 

Ben Jonson, in the Alchymist, speaking of the medicinal properties 
of gems, wrote: 

My meat shall come in Indian shells, dishes of agate set in gold, and studded with 
emeralds, sapphires, hyacinths, and rubies. The tongues of carps, dormice, and 
camel's heels boiled in the spirit "of Sol, and dissolv'd pearl, apicus diet 'gainst the 
epilepsy. And I will eat these broths with spoons of amber, headed with diamond 
and carbuncle. 

Dioscorides, in his Materia Medica, recommends the use of the agate 
as a preventive of contagion. 

Alahaster. — According to Leonardus, it is the best for vessels to 
hold ung'uents, which are preserved in them without spoiling. Dios- 
corides and manj^ other doctors account it good in phj'^sicks. He who 
carries it will prove victorious in suits at law. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 565 

Amher. — Supposed to be '" generated out of the urine of the lynx, 
and is hardened by time; that voided ])y the male, brown; by the 
female, sati'ron. int'lining to a darkness." Amber assuaged pain in 
the stomach. I'ured jaundice, flux, and king's evil. 

It naturally resjitraius the flux of the belly; is an efticacious remedy for all dis- 
orders in the throat (a belief still prevalent). It is good against poison. If laid on 
the breast of a wife when she is asleep, it makes her confess all her evil deeds. 
Being taken inwardly it provokes urine, brings down the menses, and facilitated a 
birth. It fastens teeth that are loosen'd, and h\ the smoke of it poisonous insects 
are driven away. (Camillus Leonardus, Speculum Lapidum. 1502. ) 

AVhen buried in a moist soil it was supposed to generate a fungus, 
which was administered to those troubled with the gravel. It cured 
fits, dysentery, scrofula, and jaundice. Used as an amulet it charmed 
away toothache, asthma, croup, and diseases of the throat: supposed 
to be efficacious as a curative and prophylactic if rublied on the parts 
or tiiken internally, after dissolving in white wine. (Dissertatio med- 
ica de Succino, 1682.) These beliefs are still current. 

Thomas Nicols states that the — 

white odoriferous amber is esteemed the best for physic use, and thought to be of 
great power and force against many diseases, as against the vertigo and asthmatic par- 
oxysmeit, against catharres and (irthrilirall pains, against diseases of the stomach, and 
to free it from sluflings and putrefactions, and against diseases of the heart, against 
plagues, venoms, and contagions. It is used either in powder, or in oil, or in troches, 
either in distempers of men or of women, either married or unmarried, either with 
child or without, or in the distempers of children. [Arcula Gemmea, 1653.] 

Olaus Worm, of Copenhagen, writing in 1640, says that amber was 
received as a panacea; a sovereign remedy for toothache, asthma, and 
dropsy. 

In the work " De Proprietatibus Rerum," by Bartholomaeus Glan- 
villa, amber is reported to possess the property of driving awa\" adders 
and of being contrary to friends. 

The Shah of Persia is said to wear an amulet of amber reported to 
have fallen from heaven, and which has the property of rendering him 
invulnerable. 

Amber is used to-day in Lombardy and the Piedmont as a cure for 
goitre, a belief that dates back to the time of Pliny. 

Amethyst. — Emblematic of sincerity. 

As an amulet it dispelled sleep, sharpened the intellect, prevented 
intoxication, gavx victor}^ to soldiers, and protected its wearer from 
sorcery. (Leonardus.) 

"The amethy.st banishes the desire for drink and promotes chastity." 
(Art ^Nlagic; or Mundane, Submundane, and Supermundane Spir- 
itism.) 

Lost its color in contact with and was an antidote for all poisons. 
(Albertus Magnus.) 

According to Pliny, the amethyst was an antidote to drunkenness, 



566 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 19(X). 

and it takes its name from this property. Moreover, if the name of 
the moon or sun be engraved on it and it be thus hung about the neel?: 
from the hair of a baboon or the feathers of a swallow, it is a charm 
against witchctraft. It is also serviceable to persons having petitions 
to make to princes. With the assistance of a spell or incantation, it 
kept off hailstorms and flights of locusts. 

Porta, in his treatise on magic, says that the amethyst neutralizes 
magic incantations. 

The Puranas hold that the amethyst "'gives strength and cures 
morbid heat and tistula." 

Beryl. — Used with incantations to foretell the future and review the 
past: was efficacious in detecting thieves, forewarned death, and Avas 
supposed to have power over and to be the abode of evil spirits that 
could be made to work the wearer's will b}'^ means of suitable incan- 
tations. It rendered its owner cheerful, preserved and increased 
conjugal love, cured diseases of the throat and jaws and disorders 
"proceeding from the humidity of the head, and is a preservative 
against them." (Cam.illus Leonardus, Speculum Lapidum. 1502.) 

According to Freeman, who wrote in 1701 — 

The beryl disturbs devils beyond all others. If it be thrown in water with the 
words of its charm sung, it shews various images of devils and gives answers to those 
that question it. Being held in the mouth, a man may call a devil out of hell and 
receive satisfaction to such questions as he may ask. 

Browning, in one of his poems, makes use of this belief. 

The beryl was largeh' used for divination in 1600. The method was 
as follows: A bowl was filled with water and the ring suspended in it. 
The answer to the question propounded was spelled out by the ring 
striking the sides of the vessel, A modification of this, and one still 
in use, w-as to mark the edges of the bowl with the letters of the alpha- 
bet; the stopping of the ring at certain letters composed the answer. 
Still another method, and one said to have been used b}' Napier, was 
to throw a sphere cut from the stone into a bowl of water. The 
character of the circles formed announced whether the presiding demon 
A^s favorable or not. If favorable, the information desired was pic- 
tured on the surface of the bowl. 

Prior to the seventeenth century the beryl was in some repute as a 
curative. Mixed with an equal weight of silver, its powder, taken 
internally, was thought to cure leprosy. Water in which the stone had 
stood was good for the eyes, and, taken internall}^ it dispelled flatulencj^ 
and cured indisposition of the liver, 

Nicols, in the "Arcula Gemmea," published in 1653, said: 

Wurtzung, in his general practise, saith that the beryll is used in all distemi^ers of 
the heart. But take this caution by the way: Beware of the use of gemms (unless 
you are sure they be true) in physick, by reason they are so frequently adulterated. 

Bloodntone. — Symbolical of wisdom, firmness, and courage. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 567 

Used with the proper incantations, its owner was enabled to foretell 
the future, and if rubbed with the juice of the heliotrope, it rendered 
its wearer invisible. The stone brought safety and long life to its 
possessor, stopped the flow of blood, and was an antidote for poisons. 
(Camillas Leonai'dus, Speculum Lapidum. 1502.) 

Albertus Magiuis taught that it cured dyspepsia, strengthened the 
stomach, and, if '* washed according to medicinal art," was a styptic. 
Mixed with honey or the white of an egg, its powder was held by him 
to be an excellent remedy for hard tumors, while its dust would cure 
proud flesh and running sores. 

Pliny" and Leonardus mention that if placed in a basin of water con- 
taining the, juice of the heliotrope and set in the sun, the water will 
appear red and the sun blood} . After a time the water will appar- 
ently boil and overflow the basin. Taken out of the water, the sun 
and solar eclipses could then be viewed in the water as in a mirror. 

In a '" Booke of the Thinges that are brought from the West Indies," 
published in 1574, the statement is made — 

They doo hring from the New Spain a stone of great virtue, called the stone of 
the hlood. The Bloodstone is a kind of jasper of divers colours, somewhat dark, full 
of sprinkles like to blood, being of colour red, of the which stones the Indians dooth 
make certayne Hartes, both great and small. The use thereof both there and here is 
for all fluxe of bloode, and of wounds. The stone must be wet in cold water, and 
the sick man must take him in his right hand and from time to time wet him in cold 
water. And as touching the Indians, tliey have it for certayne that touching the 
same stone in some part where the lilood runneth, that it doth restrain. 

The bishop of Rennes, in the eleventh centurj^, writing on the 
talismanic eflicaty of stones, asserts that the bloodstone endows its 
bearer with the gift of prophecy' and renders him proof against poison. 

During the Middle Ages the belief was prevalent in Europe tbat the 
stone had its origin in a dark-green jasper which happened to lie at 
the foot of the cross at the time of the crucifixion, and upon which the 
blood of Christ fell, hence the red spots. 

Carnelian. — According to Epiphanius, it cured tumors and all 
wounds made hs iron. 

It preserved the strength, prevented hoarseness, and cleared the 
voice. (Camillus Leonardus.) 

It cheered the soul, banished fear and enchantments, and preserved 
harmony. (Albertus Magnus.) 

According to the work by Giov. B. Porta, the Avearing of a carne- 
lian insured victory in all contests save those of love. 

As an amulet and as a powder it was supposed to be a sovereign 
remedy for hemorrhage. De Laet, in 1647, has described from a 
personal experience its power in stopping bleeding at the nose, and 
advises the wearing of rings cut entirely from the stone for this pur- 
pose. The belief in its eflicacy in such cases still persists. 
NAT MUS 1900 39 



568 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Oafs-eye. — The oat-.s-eye cheers the mind, cures [)iillor, hrinjj^s on a 
safe deliv^erv in case of protracted labor, especialh' if tied in the liair 
of a patient. Applied locally, it causes infants suffering- from the 
croup to bring- up phlegm. 

Applied as an ointment to the eyes, it cures lachryma. Calcined, 
the poAvder applied to sores heals them, and will cause new flesh to 
appear in the place of proud flesh. (Ben Adoulah.) 

According to the Mani-Mala, "the cat's-eye is warm, sour, and cura- 
tive of cold, chronic derangements of the spleen, and colic, and is 
generally auspicious when worn." The same authority sa3's that the 
perfect cat's-eyes, which are "heavy, deliciously cool, flawless, smooth, 
and otherwise faultless," are considered very lucky, while those that 
are defective bring al>out loss of friends, ruin, and wasting of the bod3\ 

The Hindus group the cat's-eye in four castes, according to their 
quality, all of which are replete with lucky signs. 

The Persians held that the stone ground to a tine powder, mixed 
with water, and then dried in the sun, and the operation repeated 
until the powder soaks up four times as much water as was tirst put 
in, would cure dropsy and inflanmiation of the navel if applied locally. 

The Assyrians dedicated the stone to the god Beltis, and ornaments 
containing it would, after the proper religious ceremony, render its 
wearer invisible to his enemies. 

Chalcedony. — Prevented and cured melancholy. Worn as an amulet 
and in contact with the hairs of an ass, it was a preventive of danger 
during tempests and sinister events. (Camillus Leonardus, Speculum 
Lapidum. 1502.) 

Reported to drive away evil spirits, a preventive of melancholv and 
sadness, and would })ring victory to its wearer. (Andrea Baccius, 
Armot. Super. 6, c. do Natur. gem.) 

Chfy)<(>}>evyl. — As an amulet it dispelled evil di'cams, fear, and mel- 
ancholy; in addition, it possessed the properties of the beryl. (The 
Mirror of Stones. 1750.) 

The oriental chrysolite (chryso])eryl) dispelled pestilential vapors 
and infectious airs. Taken internally, it alleviated asthma. (Rulan- 
dus, Medicina Practica. 1561.) 

It was said to cool boiling water when immersed in it, soften anger, 
lose its luster on contact with poison, ancl induce its wearer to repent 
of the faults he had committed. (Porta, Magia; Naturalis. 1501.) 

According to the Mani-Mala, the chrysoberyl, when set in gold and 
worn about the neck or hand, removes disease and vicious habits, and 
increp-ses family, life, and happiness. 

67i/"//.sY>/^«V(^ — Cardanus, in his "de subtil itate," says that he cured 
one C. Palavicinus of a fever and another person of the "falling sick- 
ness" by the administration of powered chrysolite with wine. 

The powder was prescribed as a remedy for asthma. Held under 
the tongue, it assuaged thirst in fever. (Arcula Genmiea. 1653.) 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 569 

C7tri/soj)r((.s<\ — Preserved the sig-ht, banished covetousness, and 
rendered its wearer eheerful. (Mirror of Stones. IToO.) 

Worn as an amulet, it assuaged the pains of gout. (Arcuht Gennnea. 
1658.) 

Bound around the arm, it was supposed to ))eoome a diuretie, to 
expel gravel, and prevent the generation of the stone. (Rulandus, 
Medicina Praetica. 1564.) 

Citrliii. — The citrini (yellow corundum) protected the wearer from 
danger while traveling, secured him from pestilential vapoi-s, and pro- 
cured him every courtesy. (Arcula Gemmea. 1653.) 

Coral. — In the "Arcula Gemmea" is a rather interesting account 
of the coral, as follows: 

This is a bud of maritime l)eauty, and the deliglit of children, the best of nature's 
buds, as somewhat furthering the springtide of their growth. The corall is a ])lant 
of nature's setting in the sea, which, though being covered with the waters of the 
sea, it bee green and soft, yet so soon as it is elevated above the waves and dis- 
covered in the region of the aire it altereth its colour and changeth its nature: its 
colour from green to a very noble and beautifull red; its softnesse into the compacted 
firmness and solidnesse of a stone, beautifull and lasting; by the operati(jn of the 
aire encompassing its sometimes soft and flaccid substance. It is (under the waters 
of a brinish sea) a thriving, growing plant, sprung by nature with the ornament of 
many pretty branches, which is no sooner violently forc'd from the place of its 
growth and brought to light above the overflowing of the waters, but it bkishes at 
the injurious hand that offereth violence to its secret, silent, tender, spreading growth. 

Ovid, the Roman poet, accounts for the origin of the coral in the 
"Metamorphoses" in the following manner: 

Perseus, having cut off the head of the Medusa, placed it upon some 
twigs and leaves near the seashore. The twigs were turned to stone 
on contact with the head, were scattered far and wide beneath the sea 
b}" sea nymphs, and thus became the seeds of coral. 

The coral was thought to be of greater beauty when worn by a man 
than by a woman. By its change of color it was thought to forewarn 
the approach of disease; and should the wearer ))ecome dangerously 
sick, the gem became spotted. Worn as an amulet, it drove away fear, 
kept men from the influence of sorcery and evil spirits. It was a pro- 
tection against poison, plague, and storm. (Arcula Genmiea. 1653.) 

It secured women from incuhus and men suecuhu!< and hindered the 
delusions of the devil. [Dioscorides, De Materia Medica.] 

Coral was administered, according to the following prescription, for 
vomiting, purging, and colic: 

TABELI..K CimALLAT^E. 

Jfc. Corallorum rubeorum pra^paratoruni, 5'*; margaritar pr;cparator, 5'; boli 
armeni, "-yfi; ligni aloes, 9i. Sacch. albissimi dissoluti in acjua rosaru cinnamomi 
tenuioris quantum sufEcit; fiat confectio in tabellis. [Arcula Gemmea. 1653.] 

According to the "Medicina Praetica" of Rulandus, written in 1564, 
a half a drachm of powdered coral was given as a cardiac stimulant; 



570 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

and ill all contajrious diseases, fevers, and poisonings the ''tinctura 
corallorum" and the ''sal corallorum'' were equall}- efficacious. 

Stopped every flux of blood; drove away ghosts, illusions, and 
dreams; was a protection against lightning, wind, tempest, and attacks 
of wild beasts. (Methrodorus.) 

It gave relief to pains in the stomach and heart and strengthened 
those organs. It made sound diseased gums, and cleansed putrid 
sores. The powder, taken with wine, was given for the gravel. If 
hung on fruit-])earing trees, it insured fertilitv and protected them 
from hail and l)lighting winds. A kind known as Gro(jiu.s had the 
power of stopping thunder and lightning. [Leonardus, Speculum 
Lapidum. 1.502.] 

Before the time of Plin}^ coral was held in great esteem, })ut during 
his period it was apparenth^ not so- highly appreciated, since he 
remarks "that formerl}'^ it was deemed a most excellent antidote for 
poison." During the Middle Ages, however, it was in great repute 
throughout P^urope both as a drug and as an amulet. It was at that 
time deemed a powerful astringent, and in demand as a talisman 
against witchcraft, poison, epileps}. etc. 

Boetius de Boot, writing in 1636, says that he was cured of a dan- 
gerous pestilential fever by taking 6 drops of tincture of coral. A. 
de Villenevee prescribed 10 grains of coral for infants in order to 
preserve them from epilepsj- or any other fit through life. It is still 
in repute as a preservative against children's diseases and is not infre- 
quenth' worn suspended from the neck for this purpose. In India it 
is occasionall}' given to children in the hope of ridding them of the 
hives and kindred itches. 

According to the Mani-Mahi a deep red coral was worn as an imme- 
diate cure for poisoning. Kar. an oriental sage, sa3's that any man 
who wears an ugly discolored and rough coral courts death. 

Sanskrit medical science taught that coral is sour, sweet, a specific 
for cold and biliousness, nutritious, and grace imparting; and the 
wearing of it very beneficial to women. 

According to the Arabic and Persian Avriters, as given by Tagore in 
his Treatise on Gems, a dose of coral was considered to be a good 
astringent, a remedy for all bleedings, and an antidote for all poisons. 
Worn over the parts it cured all stomach complaints; worn around 
the neck it stopped crying in infants and protected them from fear 
and sudden starts while asleep. In Afghanistan the coral mixed with 
gold dust is given as a tonic. In Egypt it is used according to the 
following receipt: 

Cut open a lemon and put a piece of coral inside, cover the opening 
with a paste of clay, and place the whole under a fire for some time 
until it gets white from burning; remove it and after grinding the 
stone use it as an ointment for the eyes. Mixed with electuaries and 
taken internally it will give great physical strength. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 571 

Portii. in his M:i<j;iao Nntunilis, says lliat the roral will arii'st the 
liow of ])lood and keep off evil spirits. This belief still persists in 
Italy where a hand iiolding- a hraneli of coral is not infrequiMitly worn 
as a protection against the evil eye. 

D'liimond. — This stone l)eing of all gems the purest, hardest, and 
most l)rilliant, was considered to be the most powerful in spiritual 
influences and was consecrated to all that was holy and heavenly. 

It was symbolical of constancy, purity, and innocence, and hence 
early used in betrothal rings. It softened anger, strengthened love, 
and was considered an infallible test of conjugal fidelity. To the 
ancients the diamond represented inexorable justici^ and unchangeable 
fate, hence the judges of Hades were described as having hearts and 
bosoms of adamant. 

According to the Tahnud, a certain gem, supposed to have been the 
diamond, worn in the girdle of the high priest, if brought in contact 
with an accused man became dark and dim if the suspect was guilty: 
if innocent the stone shone with increased brilliancy. 

In Europe as late as 1700 the diamond was thought to })e the most 
potent talisman against poison, pestilence, witchcraft, etc. It was 
esteemed a safeguard to virtue; was used as a preventive of and a 
cure for lunacy. It was supposed to drive away lenuires, incubi, and 
kindred terrors; and was considered a preservativ(» against lightning. 
The gem was supposed to possess sex, and Boetius de Boot mentions 
two such diamonds w^hich l)y tluMi' union produced others and thus 
left a luuuerous progeny. 

Sir John Mandeville also bears witness to the procreative powers of 
diamonds: 

They grow together, male and female, and are nourished l)y the dew of heaven; 
and they engender eomnionly, and bring forth small children that multiply and 
grow all the year. I have oftentimes tried the experiment, that if a man keep them 
with a little of the rock, and wet them with ^lay <lew often, they shall grow every 
year and the small will grow great. 

Speaking further concerning the diamond, Mandeville held that in 
order to secure the greatest good from a diaiuond it should ))e worn 
on the left side. 

For it is of greater virtue than on the right side; for the strength of their growing 
is toward the north, that is the left side of the workl, and the left part of a man is 
when he turn.s his face toward the east. He who so carries the diamond upmi liini, 
it gives him hardness and manhood, and it keeps the limbs of his body whole. It 
gives him victory over his enemies, if his clause is just; and it keeps him that bears 
it in good wit; and it keeps him from strife and riot; from sorrows and enchant- 
ments; and from i)liantasies and illusions of wicked spirits. It makes a man 
stronger and firmer against his enemies; and heals him that is a lunatic, and those 
whom the fiend pursues or torments. .\n<l if venom or jjoison be brought in pres- 
ence of the diamond, anon it begins to grow moist and sweat. Nevertheless, it hap- 
pens often that the good diamond loses its virtue by sin, and for incontiTience of 
him who bears it; and then it is needful to make it recover its virtue again, or else 
it is of little value. 



572 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

PiciTO de Boniface, a fourteenth century alchemist, taught that one 
of the virtues of the diamond was to render its wearer invisible and 
invincible. 

In this comiection the Shah of Persia is the possessor of a diamond 
set in a scimitar which is believed to render him invincible so long as 
he has it by him. The shah also has a five-pointed star of diamonds 
which is thought to make conspirators instantly confess their crimes 
when in its presence. 

A diamond ring was given to Mary Queen of Scots, })y Ruthven, 
as a talisman against danger and poison. The queen also possessed 
tAvo other diamonds — " one medicinable and against poison,'' the other 
"medicinable for the collicke." 

According to the Puranas, the diamond varies in the preponderance 
of one or the other of the five primal elements — 

Earth, water, sky, energy, and air. The "airy" sort gives lieart and gracefulness, 
the "skyey" diamonds bring about the possession of all kinds of weahh. The own- 
ership and use of those kinds in which energy predominates adds to puissance, hero- 
ism, and hope. Those diamonds which are white like the jessamine flower, white 
clouds, or the moon, and are possessed of six or eight corners, sharp ridged, that 
have originated from water, and that shine in the darkness, lead to the instant cure 
of snake bites, and prove efficacious in neutralizing the effects of other poisons, and 
prove a panacea as soon as worn. 

Like men, diamonds are divided into castes, Brahmins, Vaisya, Kshatriyas, and 
Siidras. The wearing of sui)erior Brahmin diamonds gives favor in the eyes of the 
gods. The better sort of the Kshatriya class bring al^out uniform success, accession 
of power, and destruction of foes. The best stones of the Vaisya class are productive 
of fame, wisdom, and skill in the fine arts. The higher order of the Sudra caste 
induce benevolence in their owner and make him hale and wealthy. 

As the promiscuous intercourse of one caste with another gives rise to mixed castes 
among men, so it is with diamonds. These mixed castes give rise to impurities and 
flaws in the stones, and which, according to their nature and kind, are fraught with 
grave trouble to man. Such diamonds cause: Unchastity; brings destruction; renders 
man apprehensive of snake bites; creates fear; leads to ruin, loss of family dignity, 
and death. Ru(;h stones are dangerous to pregnant women and contact with them 
maj' lead to al)ortion. 

A shapeless diamond is fraught with danger; a dirty diamond with grief; a rough 
diamond with unhappiness, and a black diamond with various troubles. A three- 
cornered diamond gives rise to quarrels; a four-cornered diamond occasions various 
fears; a five-cornered one brings death; but a six-cornered stone is productive of 
good. 

Since the use of impure diamonds leads to danger, causes swelling in wounds, faint- 
ness, leprosy, pleurisy, jaundice, etc., it is highly advisal)]e to refine and purif}' the 
stone before using it medicinally. 

The process is as follows: On some auspicious day dip the diamond in the juice of 
Kdiitakiiri (solarium jaquiri) and then burn it in a tire made of dried cow or buffalo 
dung. The burning should be carried on for a whole night. In the morning the 
diamond should be put under horse's urine and again burnt. These operations are 
continued for seven days. The stone is then innnersed in a gruel made of various 
leguminous seeds to which assafoedita and rock salt have been added and heated 
repeatedly twenty and one times. By this means the diamond is purified and rechiced 
to ashes. The taking of a diamond so treated gives longevity, strength, energy, 
beauty, develops the i)arts, and effects a cure for every distemper. (Mani-Mald. ) 



C'ATALOCilE OK GEMS. 573 

The Brahniiii diamond is useful in chemical opei'ations. and t>rino-s 
about the acquisition of power, friends, wealth, position, and good luck 
to one's family. A Kshatri^a diamond wards oit old age and prema- 
ture deatii; a Vais^a one crowns every endeavor with success; while 
a Sudra one is a panacea. 

The Hindu held that the diamond was masculine, feminine, or neuter 
according to its marking and appearance. The masculine kinds were 
considered the best, and were useful in medicine. The feminine 
diamond was auspicious to women; but the neuter diamond was 
destructive of vigor and brought weakness and disappointment; as a 
medicine it was administered for impotency. 

According to the views of Arabian and Persian authorities the 
diamond, if worn, imparted health and dispelled fear. Tied around 
the thighs of a woman about to be confined it brought on a safe and 
speedy delivery and assuaged the pain of labor. Cut into a hexagon 
and worn on the arm it cured epilepsy. Combined with other ingre- 
dients and used as a dentifrice it rendered the teeth bright and hard; 
its use in this manner was attended with risks, for on too long a 
contact with the teeth it caused them to fall out; while the presence of 
a single particle in the stomach Avas liable to produce death. It was 
a fatal poison if taken internally without electuaries; and — 

if ])y accident one takes a quantity of it his life should not be considered safe until 
he is made to vomit it out by means of drinking a (luantity of fnsh cow's milk or 
some heated clarified butter, or b}' any other jneans, such as applying the fingers to 
the inside of the throat. The soup of some fatty fiesh is then to be given to the 
patient to complete the recovery. (Tagore, Treatise on Gems.) 

The Burmese call the diamond and arsenic by the same name, eJtein^ 
on the ground that they are ])oth fatal poisons. 

This idea was not unknown in Europe, for we find the diamond 
listed as one of the poisons given to Sir Thomas Overbury when a 
prisoner in the Tower; while Benvenuto Cellini, the famous gold- 
smith, writing about 1560, relates how his life was preserved b}- the 
roguery of an apothecary, who, being .emploA'ed to pulverize a dia- 
mond intended to ])e mixed in a salad for Cellini with the intention of 
poisoning him. substituted a beryl as cheaper, thus saving the life of 
Cellini. 

According to Sanskrit medicine the diamond combined all the six 
tastes, cured every disease, brought health and strength, and was very 
useful in chemical operations. (Mani-Mahi.) 

In Egypt the diamond, when set in gold, gives health and wealth to 
its wearer. 

According to Porta, in his Magiae Naturalis, the diamond contends 
against sleeplessne.ss, enchantments, and turns awa}^ wrath. 

Rabbi Benoni, a fourteenth century mystic, held that the diamond 
was capable of producing somnambulism, and when used as a talisman 



574 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 190(». 

with lodestone and sapphire it would attract such powerful planetary 
influences as to render its wearer almost invincible. 

In Art Magic; or Mundane, Submundane, and Supermundane 
Spiritism, it is stated that the diamond is the most powerful of all 
stones to promote spiritual ecstac3^ 

Emerald. — Emblematic of happiness. As an amulet it was a pi-e- 
server of chastity, and betrayed or punished its violation by flying 
into pieces or losing color. It preserved women in childbirth and 
eased the pains of labor; water in which the stone had stood hastened 
the afterbirth. (Leonardus.) Applied to the lips it stopped hemor- 
rhage. When hung around the neck it prevented epileptic attacks. 
(Al})ertus Magnus.) 

Dedicated to Mercury. 

Much used by^astrologers for the purposes of divination. (Cardanus, 
De Lapidibus Preciosis.) 

Albertus Magnus cites the case of a certain King of Hungary who, 
while wearing an emerald, had knowledge of his wife, upon which the 
stone broke in three parts. 

There is such an enmity betwixt it and illegitimate venery, or the uneleanness of 
the flesh, as that if it do but touch the skin of an adulterer it will l)reak, and that it 
doth bridle the reins of lasciviousness and much temper it. (Arcula (remmea. ) 

Avenzoar held that it was an antidote for poisons, and that six grains 
of its powder taken in water made an excellent cordial. 

Mundella, a sixteenth century physician, calls attention to the pur- 
chase of '^ fine emerald by Franciscus Maria, Prince of Urbine, for use 
as a remedy in the treatment of a disorder which he was troubled with. 
(Arcula Gemmea.) 

Ahmed Ben Abdalaziz, in his Treatise on Jewels, says that if a 
serpent fix his eyes on the luster of emeralds he immediately becomes 
blind. Thus Moore in "Lalla Rookh:" 

Blinded like serpents when they gaze 
Upon the emerald's virgin blaze. 

The Shah of Persia has a small casket of gold studded with emeralds, 
said to have been blessed by Mahomet, which has the property of 
rendering the ro^^al wearer invisible so long as he remains celibate. 

The San Greal was a chalice made from a single emerald, and which 
possessed the power of preserving chastitv, prolonging life, curing 
wounds and disease, and other wonderful properties. The Holy Grail 
was used at the Last Supper, and in it were caught the last drops of 
the blood of Christ as he was taken from the cross. In the legends 
and poetry of the middle ages are many notices of the Greal. A subject 
revived by Tenn3'son. 

The Romans used it to rest, strengthen, and preserve the eyes, a 
practice which persisted through the Middle Ages, during which period 
water in which the stone had stood was used as a specific for ophthalmia. 



CATALOGUE OF OEMS. 575 

Boetius dc Root yivos dii-ections for its troatiiu'iit for use :is ii dvn^ 
as follows: 

Pound the emeraltl in an iron mortar, sift tlie powder througii tlie inu.slin, then 
cover it with spiritns urimc; the spirit nuist be (hstilled off, leaving tlie ])Owder of a 
gray color, but which will coinnmnicate that of the emerald to the spirits of wine. 

This taken internally was considered u powei-ful remedy for many 
diseases siieh as dysentery, epilepsy, venomous bites, fevers, etc. 
Aeeording- to Sanskrit niedieine — 

The emerald is cool, good in {)oisoning, sweet, and purgative, helps digestion, cures 
biliousness, removes disrelish, is nutritious, and wards off spectral influences. 
(Tagore, Treatise on (Tcms.) 

The Hindu authorities held that the perfect emerald was an infallible 
remedy for all cases of poisoning; cleansed men from sin, brought 
about success in war, and rendered successful the rites performed 
according to the Atharva-Veda. The defective emerald lead to sick- 
ness, injury-, loss of male children, and rendered one liable to bites. 
(Mani-Mala.) 

The Persian and Arabian sages taught that, whether worn or taken 
as a medicine, the emerald — 

bestows contentment of mind, quickens the pulse, gives nourishment to the soul, 
heart, brains, and stomach, cures epilepsy, removes all bodily pain, stops the vonut 
ing and purging of blood, is an antidote to poison, allays unnatural thirst, ano is a 
panacea for jaundice, liver troubles, stricture, gravel, and leprosy. 

If administered in doses weighing 8 wheat corns to a patient suffering from poison, 
it neutralizes its action, provided it he taken soon enough. To prevent vomiting of 
blood, the dose of the emerald should be the weight of 4 barleycorns. The powder 
applied to the eyes, brings out all impurities therein and stops the flow of fluid 
substances. When set in a gold ring and worn on the forefinger or thumb, it is a 
prophylactic against cholera. The ashes of l)urnt emerald heals ulcers if applied 
locally. 

According to the Rosicrucians, if at the time when Sol enters Libra 
an emerald be set in a gold ring of the same weight and worn on the 
fing-er, its wearer would attain his cherished object and could detect 
the presence of poisons by the sweating of the stone. 

The possessor of an emerald would never become poor. 

If a serpent looked at this stone, he was struck with blindness. 

The Egyptians held that the best test for a genuine emerald was that 
a serpent immediately fell to licking it as soon as it came across it. 

The Aztecs administered its powder as a remedy for venereal diseases. 

Garnet. — Emblematic of constancy. Its virtue was to dispel 
"poisonous and infectious airs" (Leonardus). During- the Middle 
Ages it was considered to possess the same marvelous and medicinal 
properties as the ruby, though to a less degree. It gave and preserved 
health, drove awa}' vain thoughts, and reconciled differences between 
friends. 



576 KKPOKT OK NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Suspended from the neck, it kept oft' plag-ue and thunder, strength- 
ened the heart, and increased riches and honors. (Giov. B. Porta. 
Magiae Natural is. 1 561 . ) 

According to the Puranas — 

A garnet wliich is coldivd liki' the conch, the lotus, the ])lack bee, or the sun, and 
which is strunji on a thread, is sound and auspicious, and heralds good fortune. A 
garnet whii-h is i-olored like the crow, the horse, the ass, the jackal, the bull, or the 
blood-stained beak of a vulture holding a i)iece of flesh, brings on death. 

Jacinth. — Procured sleep, riches, honor, and wisdom. A preserva- 
tive against pestilence and foes. (Leonardus. Speculum Lapidum. 
1502.) 

Cardanus, in l)e Lapidibus preciosis, sa3'S that he was in the habit 
of carrj^ing a jacinth about him for the purpose of inducing .sleep, 
wdiich he says "it did seem somewhat to confer, but not much."" 

Xicols, quoting Cardanus, .says that jacinth procured sleep, cheered 
the heart, drove awa}' plagues, brought protection from thunder, and 
increased wisdom and honor when worn on the finger or about the 
neck as an amulet. (Arcula Gemmea. 1653.) 

Jdde. — Worn as an amulet or administered internally, it was a cura- 
tive of di.seases of the kidney and loins. 

Wecker, in the Antidotae speciale de Lapidibus minus preciosis 
Alterantibus, saA's that a nobleman, well known to him, had a fine 
"nephritiek stone," which he wore on his arm — 

by the power of which he voided a very great quantity of gravel, .so great as that he 
feared lest he should suffer harm by so large an expulsion of it in so short a time. 

Porta, in the Magiae Naturalis, says: — It alleviates the pain of the 
kidneys, expels gravels from the bladder, and when worn as a charm 
is a preservative against venomous things. 

Jas2)e)\ — Was a charm against .scorpions and spiders. (Boot, Gem- 
marum et Lapidarum Historia. 1690.) 

Checked the How of blood; .strengthened the che.st, lungs, and 
stomach; cured fevers and dropsy;, cleared the sight, and prevented 
conception. (Leonardus, Speculum Lapidum. 1502.) 

In the list of valuables left by George, Earl Mari.schal, who died in 
1620, is ""ane jaspe stone for steming of bluid." 

Mottled jasper, suitably engraved, was believed to prevent its 
wearer from death by drowning and to render him free from injury 
while on the water. (Arcula Gemmea. 1653.) . 

Burton, in the Anatomy of Melancholy, says: "If hung about the 
neck, or taken in drink, it nuich resisteth sorrow." 

Nonus, a physician of the Middle Ages, reported of it that it cured 
epilepsy. 

Galen asserted that a green jasper, worn as an amulet suspended 
from the neck so that it was above the navel, would cure dyspepsia 
and strengthen the stomach. 



CATALOGUE OF GK.MS. 577 

Jet. — Cardiinus (do su})stilitato, lih. 5) says that — 

the wearing of thi^ .«tfnu' doth secure men from nocturnal fears, fmm incnhus or 
succulni.*, or tlie nightman-, and from evil spirits; and that hcinii drunk will show 
whether a maid hatli her viririnity or no. 

Believed to dissolve spc^Us iuul enchantments. "" If hunu'd us in- 
cense, its smoke (lri\os invay (h'\ ils and relieves the dropsical." (Hoe- 
tius, De Gaoate.) 

Bruised in water andoi\(Mi to a oravid animal, it hrings forward the 
foetus. Its powdei' cures epilepsy and fastens loose teeth. Mixed 
with the marrow of a stag' and takiMi internally, it cures snak(> hites. 
(Speculum Lapidum. 1502.) 

Used as a perfume, it prevented irregularity in female periods. 
(Wurtz. Tab. f»"ener. prac.) 

Laph-laznli. — Believed to cure melancholia. (Speculum Lapidum.) 

Dioscorides. in De Materia Medica. suooests its use as a cure for 
melancholy, and states that it is a good purgative. 

Cardanus advises its use in pectoral diseases of children and in epi- 
lepsy. The dose to be live grains. (De Subtilitate.) 

Boetius (Tract, de Lapidibus et Geuuuis) states tiiat it is a good 
purgative. Unwashed, it purges l)y vomiting; washed, it purges by 
stool. Used for this purpose to-day in India. Chile, and Peru. 

A. Mussa Brassavolus (Lib. de ^led. purgant.) used it as a purga- 
tive accoi'ding to the following prescription: 

Ijfc. Lapidi.s lazuli praeparati, 5j- Camphone, anisi, cinnamomi, zinziheris, mas- 
tiches ana, p:r. (5. ^lisce, cum succo salvias vel diacathohco liant jiilulie (juinq. Dosis 
est a 9ij ad 5J) ^nt in pilulis, ant in pulvere, ant in jure, ant in aqua Boraginis, aut 
in conserva Boraginis, aut in vino cretico. 

According- to Sanskrit medical science lapis-lazuli is cooling, and a 
curative of Inliousness. (Mani-]Mala.) 

Lodei^Ume. — Orpheus, in the Hymni et de Lapidibus, says: 

It will confer strength, banish disease, and when worn constantly 
about the person ward off epidemics and plagues. Sitting })efore it 
and lixing the eyes earnestly upon it one has but to ask the gods for 
light on any subject, and the answer Avill come breathing out through 
the stone. The soul will hear it and the senses discover it clearly. 

In great repute in Europe during the tifteenth. sixteenth, and sev- 
enteenth centuries for its numerous virtues as an auudet and drug. 
Carried al)out the person it cured cramp and gout; held in the hand 
during the hour of travail it shortened the time and eased the pains of 
lal)or. Bruised and taken with honey, it was used as a purgative; 
also cured dropsy. The same dose applied locally afforded relief 
from wounds made by poisoned iroji. Taken internally with the juice 
of fennel it cured disorders of the .spleen; applied as an ointment it 
prevented baldness. A dram of the stone mixed with the fat of a ser- 
pent and the juice of nettles caused insanity. The powder thrown 



578 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

over Ji household tire caused the iuuiates to tiee in a panic, an artitice, 
according- to the popuhir l)elief, made us(> of hy thieves. (The Mirror 
of Stones. 1750.) 

It is good against the headache, convulsions, and poisons; and that it causeth easy 
dehvery, and procureth love 'twixt man and wife, and preserveth peace and concord 
amongst friends, and that it driveth away fears and increases wisdom. Galen and 
Dioscorides say it. ( Arcnla Gemmea. 1653.) 

Lodestone is in repute to-da}- as a preventive and cure for cramps, 
colic, and rheumatism. Among- the American negroes it is u.sed as a 
voodoo stone, and is thought to be a love charm; to possess phallic 
properties; to increase tlie strength of the body, and to cure Uuiibago, 
rheumatism, and hernia. 

Malaclute. — Thought to increase the strength and growth of 
children and ward from them all dangers and intirmities. (Pliny, Nat. 
Hist.; Solinus, Poly hist, C. 36; Baccius de Nat. gem., C. 29.) 

It strengthened the stomach; preserved children from hurt and 
convulsions. (Arcida Gemmea.) 

Boetius states that six grains taken internally acts as an excellent 
purgative. It will cure "cardialgia" and colic. (Tract, de Lapidi- 
bus et Gemmis.) 

Held to be a powerful local ana?sthetic, for '"''))eing taken in drink 
or bruised in vinegar and applied to the members that are to be cut 
ott' and burnt, it makes them so insensible that they feel scarce any 
pain." (Speculum Lapidum.) 

Moonstone. — According- to Plin3% "the image of the moon contained 
therein daily waxes or wanes according- to the period of the lunar 
motion." 

During- the period of the increase of the moon it was a potent love 
charm; during- the period of decrease it enabled its wearer to foretell 
the future. Carried in the mouth it became an aid to the memory. 
As a powder and amulet it was prescribed in cases of epilepsy. (Cam- 
illus Leonardus.) It is still used for this purpose among the Basques. 
(Crevecoeur.) 

Onyx. — Its origin, according- to the Greek legend, was due to Cupid 
cutting- the nails of the sleeping Venus with his arrow; these falling 
into the Indus were changed to onyx. 

The stone was thought to l)e a powerful aphrodisiac; to increase 
si)ittlc ill children; hasten a ))irth; give rise to nightmare, and stir up 
strife. Used as an eyestone "it enters of its own accord, and if it 
found anything- within that is noxious, it drives it out and tempers 
the hurtful and contrary hinnors." (Camillus Leonardus, Speculiuu 
Lapidum. 1502.) 

The belief in its causing nightmare and strife was widespread. This 
belief was explained l)y Benoni on the assumption that "in the onyx 
is a demon imprisoned in the stone who wakes only of a night, causing 
terror and disturbance to sleepers who wear it." 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 579 

Among- the Persians the onyx is to-day administered as a drug- for 
the cure of epilepsy. 

Opal. — Symbolical of hope. 

The gem was in great repute as an eyestone, and was used in all 
diseases of the eye. It partot)k of all the virtues of those stones whose 
colors it showed. (Camillus Leonardus, Speculum Lapidum. 1502.) 

It stimulated the heart; preserves from contagious and infectious 
airs; drives away despondency; prevents fainting, heart disease, and 
malignant affections. (Giov-. B. Porta, Magiae Naturalis. 1561.) 

The opal was supposed to indicate the state of health of its wearer 
by change of color, losing its brilliancy if the wearer was ill, and vice 
versa. 

The idea that the opal is unlucky is based on a teutonic superstition, 
and is comparatively modern. Mention of its supposed evil qualities 
is made in a work entitled Art Magic; Mundane, Submundane, and 
Supermundane Spiritism, in which the opal is credited with being 
fatal to love and sowing discord between giver and receiver. 

Pearl. — Emblematic of purity, beauty, and nobility. 

Pliny states that pearls were supposed to be generated by a celestial 
dew falling on the shelltish, which, in the early mornings of certain 
seasons, left the bottom of the sea to draw in the air containing the 
dew from which the pearls were derived, the size and quality of the 
pearl depending upon the size of the dewdrop and the purity of the 
air. Cloudy weather spoiled the color, lightning stopped the growth, 
and thunder ruined the gem. 

According to the ancient Hindu authorities, pearls were held to 
originate in elephants, clouds, boars, conch shells, fishes, frogs, oys- 
ters, and bamboos. Of these, the. oysters were the most productive. 
The pearls were formed by rain drops falling into the open shell of 
the mollusk, the finest gems being found during the period when the 
sun rested on arcturus, the fifteenth lunar asterism. 

In the Orient the pearl was and is extensively used as a medicine 
for svncope, hemorrhage, stomach troubles, etc. In China large 
quantities of seed pearls are made into an electuary, and taken to 
restore manly vigor and as a stimulant. 

According to Sanskrit medical science, the pearl is '"sweet in taste, 
very cool, and a specific for eye diseases, cures poisoning and atroph}^, 
and brings strength to weak limbs." (Mani-Mala.) 

The Arabian and Persian sages held that the use of pearls was con- 
ducive to contentment of body and soul; cured insanity and all mental 
diseases; all diseases of the heart, stomach, and bowels; piles, stric- 
ture, and excessive and insufficient menstruation. It was an antidote 
for poison, stopped bleeding from cuts, and cured lepros\^ and skin 
diseases. 

Rambam recommends the use of the burnt powder as an ointment 



580 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

in the trejitnicnt of ulcov.-^ and (ii.sea.se,s of the eye, .such as conjuncti- 
vitis, cataract, etc. The l)uint })owder taken internally cured vomit- 
ing" of blood and purgin<j;'. 

According- to Egyptian medicine, pearl powder taken with electua- 
ries streng:thened the body and added luster to the eyes. 

The Hindu authorities recognized four shades as belonging to 
pearls — yellow, honey, white, and blue. The lirst brings wealth, the 
second fosters understanding, the third bruigs fame, and the fourth 
good luck. If defective, according- to the kind and degree, the pearl 
brought on leprosy, loss of male issue, loss of fortune, disgrace, sloth- 
fulness, insanity, and death. (Mani-Mala.) 

According to Art Magic; or Mundane, Submundane, and Supermun- 
dane Spiritism, the wearing of pearls brought one en rapport with 
spirits and promoted chastity. 

In Bengal bracelets of pearl are worn by virgins to preserve their 
virtue. 

In Europe as late as the seventeenth century decoctions containing 
pearls were thought to ))e powerful mental stinuilants and a cure for 
insanity. A decoction of pearl powder and distilled water was one of 
the remedies given to the insane Charles, King of Spain. 

Leonardus states that pearls boiled in meat would cure the quartan 
ague; powdered and taken with milk, they healed ulcers and cleared 
the voice; they comforted the heart, gave relief in cramps and colic, 
cured epilepsy and dysentery; taken with sugar, the}^ were of assist- 
ance in the cure of pestilential fevers, and that the}' rendered their 
wearers virtuous. 

According to Nicols (Arcula Gemmea), pearls were — 

good against syncopes, and cardiacall passions, that they do comfort the spirits, 
stop the fluxes of bloud, cure lienteries and diarrheas, and that they are good for the 
sight. 

Prase. — Supposed to possess all the properties of the emerald, but 
to a less degree. Lost its color on contact with poison or venom, but 
recovered it again on being washed. Reported to be an excellent cor- 
dial and cardiac stimulant. Applied to the eyes, it strengthened the 
sight. (Arcula Gemmea. 1658.) 

Benoni states that the powder mixed with the milk of a ewe that 
has had but one lamb will, if applied locally, cure the gout; taken 
internally, it was a deadly poison. 

Quartz. — The powder mixed Avith wine was given for dysentery in 
the north of England during the twelfth century. A crystal held 
against the tongue assuaged thirst. (Leonardus, Speculum Lapidum.) 

Applied locally to-day in the mountains of Georgia for faintness, 
headaches, and bleeding at the nose. Used in parts of Virginia to cure 
styes; the sty is rubbed with the crystal three times a da}^ for three 
days. In northern New York a so-called "vital ore,"' consisting 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 581 

entiroh' of quartz sand, is sold as a veritable panacea, curino- sore 
eyes, piles, carbunc-les. indij^estion, sore throat, giddiness, and blood- 
poisonino. 

In the Middle Ages the elear, transparent ([uai'tz was believed to 
betray the presence of poison, either by becoming opaiiue or break- 
ing. The powder, mixed with wine, was given in dvsentery; held in 
the mouth, it assuaged thirst, cured headaches and faintness; powdered 
and taken with wine and honey, it tilled the breasts of nursing women 
with milk. (Leonardus.) 

Orpheus recommended its use as a medicine for diseases of the 
kidneys. 

Andrea Bacci. writing in 1605, says: 

It is used either iu powder, or the salt of it, or the oil (if it, against all u1)strui-tions 
of the bowels, against gouts, swooniugs, and all cephalic diseases. 

A drachm of the powder taken with oil of sweet almonds cures those 
that have taken sublimate. (Arcula Gemmea, 1653.) 

Quartz balls were and are used by mystics, astrologers, and divin- 
ers to foretell the future, review' the past, and conjure up distant 
scenes. The famous "show'-stone" of Dr. Dee, a sphere three inches 
in diameter, was made of quartz. It is interesting to note that while 
the modern mystic and the mystic of the Middle Ages differ somewhat 
in their methods, each have the same end in view, and each have pro- 
duced witnesses to show that they attained that end. The methods 
used to induce a vision as practiced by the mvstic of the Middle Ages 
are as follows: The cr\^stal, according to Scot, in his "Discovery of 
Witchcraft,'" when '"charged" with the name of St. Helen written on 
the stone with olive oil while the operator faced the east, and held in 
the hands of an innocent child born in wedlock, would, upon the recital 
of a prayer to the saint, become an oracle and answer an}^ (Question 
put to it. 

In an eighteenth century manuscript is the following statement — 

Take a christall stone or glasse, most clear, without a craise, and wrape about it 
a pece of harte's lether, saying, " In the name of the Holy Trinity, and of the 
hey Deity Amen." Then holde the cristalle in the beam where the (v) is most 
bright, at the hottest of the day, and say there con (jurations) sul)scril)cd,and by 
and by you shall sie the spirit peradventer, appeiring hinaselfe. 

The spirit is then to be "'charged." upon which he will point out the 
whereabouts of stolen property; the location of buried treasure; give 
information concerning relatives, friends, or enemies, or such other 
infortuation as may be desired. 

According to Hindu authorities the quartz is — 

cool and cooling, cures hemorrhage from the nose and mouth, and when worn 
removes baneful astral influences. 

The crystal gives strength and cures biliousness, morbid heat, and fistula. A spe- 
cific for consumption, leprosy, and poisoning. It may enter into medicines as a sub- 
stitute for diamonds. (Maui-Mala. ) 



582 KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 190(). 

A good rock cTVf^tal is an iiifalliljle remedy in all cases of poisoning. Wild animals 
like the leopard, the ele})hant, the lion, and the tiger, can not approach this gem. 
It neutralizes snake, rat, an<l scorpion poi.sons, and the wearer need never fear 
drowning, fire, or a thief. A moss-colored, clouded, rough, yellow, dull, dirty, and 
discolored rock crystal the authorities shun from a distance. (Tagore, a Treatise on 
Gems. ) 

Riiby. — Einbloniatic of love. 

A sovereign reiiiedy and amulet against plague, poison, evil thoughts, 
niohtniare, and diverted the mind from sadness and sensuality. (Leon- 
ardus, Speculum Lapidum. 

It forewarned the wearer of the approach of any misfortune b}^ 
loss of color. In this connection Wolfgang Gabelchover gives his 
experience: 

On Decemlier 5, idOO, as I was travelling from Btudtgard in company with my 
beloved wife, Catherine Adelmann, of pious memory, I observed most distinctly 
during the journey that a very fine ruby, her gift, which I wore set in a ring upon 
my finger, had lost almost all its splendid color, and had put on dullness in place of 
brilliancy and darkness in place of light; which blackness and opacity lasted n(.)t 
for one or two days only, but for several. * * * Whereupon I warned my wife 
that some grievous mishap was impending over either her or myself, as I forel)oded 
from the change of color in my ruby. Nor was I wrong in my anticipation, inasmuch 
as within a few days she was taken with a fatal sickness that never left her till the day 
of her death. And truly, after her decease, its former brilliant color returned spon- 
taneously to my ruby. 

Arabian and Persian writers taught that the wearer of the ruby 
obtained peace of mind and strength of brain. 

A dimn dose of it, taken internally, cures epilepsy, insanity, cholera, and the spit- 
ting of blood; causes free circulation of blood throughout the system, and prevents 
uneasiness of mind. It cures all kinds of poisonings from snake bite or from admin- 
istration of poison by enemies. It frees the atmosphere from the pollution engen- 
dered l)y cholera. It purifies the blood and brings back to its normal state the 
fatally (piick action of the pulse. The wearer of th > ruby in the form of a finger 
ring obtains from the deity all the desires of his heart and becomes proof against 
thunder stroke and cholera. Worn over the eyes or applied to them as an ointment 
it cures all complaints of the vision; over the mouth it takes away the bad smell of 
it, allays thirst, and gives constant satisfaction to the mind. It brings honor to the 
wearer. The dose for internal use is from 1 kirat (4 barleycorns) to 1 dang (16 bar- 
leycorns). (See the work Karabadin Kabir, as cited by Tagore in his Treatise 
on Gems. ) 

Th(> rul)y enters into the Chinese pharmacopoeia as an ingredient in 
the ''live precious fragments," supposed to consist of ruby, topaz, 
emerald, sapphire, and hyacinth. 

The Hindu writers held that those rubies — 

whicli are flawless and of approved color are auspicious, produce health, wealth, 
wisdom, and happiness. If flawed or offcolored they bring humiliation, loss of 
friends, lia1)ility to wounds, loss of wealth, and lightning stroke; are fatal to domestic 
animals, and are inimical to life, wealth, and fame. 

The man who treasures a ruby furnished with every perfection, and which when 
cast in a quantity of milk a hundred times its bulk, makes the white mass one entire 



J 



catalogup: ok gems. 583 

sheet of re<l, or sends out a ri'd flame, is as meritorious as the eelebratiou of the 
AswainedJia jajna.^ Such a stone leads to wealth, success, happiness, and long life. 
(IMani-Milla.) 

SajypMre. — Emblematic of wisdom. If placed on the heart it bestows 
strength and energ)'. St. Jerome states that the sapphire procures royal 
favors, softens anger, frees people from enchantment, obtains release 
from captivit}", and prevents evil and impure thoughts. 

Because of its extreme coldness it was thought to preserve the 
chastity of its wearer, hence especially suited for ecclesiastical rings. 

Worn in a ring or in any other manner it is able to quench concupiscence, and for 
this reason it is proper to be worn by the priesthood and by all persons vowed to 
perpetual chastity. It is said to grow dull if worn by an adulterous or lascivious 
person. 

It rendered its wearer chaste, virtuous, pious, devout, wise, amiable, 
and pacihc. It cured boils, carbuncles, and headaches, rested and 
refreshed the body, and gave a color to the cheeks. Taken with milk 
it cured cramps. (Leonardus, Speculum Lapidum. 15(12.) 

Soaked in vinegar its vinegar extract was administered in fevers; 
powdered and soaked in vinegar for one phase of the moon, it was 
given to insure continency and conjugal love. (Galen.) 

Placed on the heart it cured fever; on the forehead it stopped 
bleeding at the nose. The powder taken with milk was a remedy for 
fevers, plague, and poison. (Albertus Magnus.) 

The powdered sapphire used as an ointment cured inflammation and 
irritation x)f the e3'es; it was also thought to be able to draw out any 
foreign substance that might be present in them. (Canones Medicinse.) 

According to Giov. Porta the sapphire was of great service in 
necromancy and the magic arts, and a deadly enemy to all venomous 
reptiles and insects. (Magiae Naturalis. 1561.) 

The Hindus regarded the stone as unlucky and as a bringer of 
misfortune. Thus — 

A sai:)phire, the surface of which wears a mica-like sheen, * * * brings about 
loss of wealth and life. That mark in a sai)phire which at first sight looks like a 
rift, * * * renders one liable to bites. That sapphire which is parti-colored 
causes loss of family dignity. The sapphire which contains dirt produces a variety 
of skin diseases like itching. That which contains gritty fragnients is destructive; 
that which is rough causes banishment. (Mani-M:il:i.) 

The same authorit}^ says, however, "that sapphire which when 
placed in a pot of milk darkens it all through, increases wealth, and is 
conducive to fame and increase of family," while "a flawless, sterling 
sapphire brings its wearer strength, fame, and length of days," and 
"the man who wears a sapphire of spotless chastity linds favor with 
Mirayami^^ and acquires longevity, family dignity, fame, understand- 
ing, and wealth." 



' The Horse Sacrifice, a (celebrated ceremony, the antiquity of which dates back to 
the Vedic 2>eriod. 
'^The preserver of the Hindu Triad. 
NAT >ri-; 1 ;»(>(! 40 



584 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

According to the Sanskrit medical science the sapphire is bitter, 
warm, and good in cold and biliousness, and when worn alleviates the 
rage of SanL^ 

In Egypt the sapphire is taken with majoom (electuaries) to add 
strength to the body. (Tagorc, Treatise on Gems.) 

The Buddhists esteem the sapphire above all gems, claiming that it 
produced tranquillity of mind, and when worn by one wholly pure and 
devoted to God insures protection against disease, danger, and ven- 
omous reptiles. 

The saphire is of a cold and drie faculty, even as are most pretious stones; it is 
reported of it that it is good against feverish distempers, hence this old distick. 

Corporis ardorem refrigerat interiorem 
Sapphirus, dtf cyprife languida vota facit. 

The best of these are very comfortable to the eyes if they be often looked on. 
(Arcula Gemmea. 1653. ) 

It is reported of it that if it be worn by an adulterer, by loosing its splendor it will 
discover his adultery. (Cardan us, De LapidiV>us preciosis. ) 

The sapphire is of so contrary a nature to poisons that if placed in a glass with a 
spider the insect will quickly die. (Arcula Gemmea. 1653.) 

St. Jerome wrote that the sapphire conciliates to its wearer the con- 
descension of princes, quells his enemies, disperses sorcery, sets free 
the captive, and may even assuage the wrath of God. 

In the inventorv of the jewels of Charles V, mention is made of a 
''bluestone with two clasps of gold, good for the gout." 

In the church of Old St. Pavd's, London, was a famous sapphire 
which was supposed to cure the infirmities of the eyes of all those thus 
afflicted who might resort to it. 

The modern mystic holds it capable of attracting powerful planetary 
influences, and nearly equal to the diamond and quartz in inducing 
visions. (Art Magic; or Mundane, Submundane, and Supermundane 
Spiritism.) 

The star sapphire was and is still reputed to be a potent love charm. 
The powder of this gem was taken as an aphrodisiac during the Middle 
Ages. Star sapphire as a powder was given for vertigo in the low 
countries as late as 1810. 

Sard. — Said to possess sex. 

The males shine brighter than the females; for the females are the 
fattest and glitter more obscurely. (Leonardus, Speculum Lapidum.) 

The sard ludlified the evil effects of the onyx when worn with it; 
sharpened the wit; gave cheerfulness, and prevented dysentery. 
(Albertus Magnus, Leonardus, and De Boot.) 

Epiphanius, writing in 1565, says that the sard conferred.upon its 
wearer a cheerful heart, courage, and presence, and protected him 
from witchcraft and noxious humors. 



' One of the stars influencing the destinies of men. 



CATALOGI^E <»K GEMS. 585 

Bacoius in his Annotutions says that powdored sard takon in spirits 
stops the menses and prevents miscarriage. 

Sardonyx. — S3'mbolical of conjugal l)liss. It rendered its ])ossessor 
virtuous, cheerful, and agreeable. (Leonardus. Specuhim Lapidum. 
1502.) 

Sjjhir/. — Reconciled differences between friends; gave health and 
strength to the body; cured disorders of the liver; restrained passion 
and fiery Avrath; and was a preservative from lightning, (Leonardus.) 

Powdered and taken with water Arnobis used it as a remedy for 
diseases of the e^'e. (Dissertatio Medica.) 

Boetius held that the wearing of a balas ruby (spinel) restrained 
fur}', wrath, and lust. 

In the Arcula Gemmea, written in 1053, the author, Nicols, says: 

Rulandus leporteth this of it. That if the four corners of a house, 
arljor, or vineyard be covered with this stone it will preserve it from 
lightning, tempests, and worms. 

According to Arabian and Persian medicine, the wearing of the 
spinel gives contentment, prevents the spitting of l)lood. cures piles, 
and all diseases caused b}' the increase of phlegm. The dose for inter- 
nal use is from 1 l-/'raf (1 barleycorns) to 1 dang (16 barleycorns). 
Applied as an ointment to the eyes the stone adds to their luster. 

According to an Arabic work, entitled Azaabul beldan, as cited 
b}' Tagore: 

The sea cows get spinel stones from the Kokaf Mountains and put them on the 
ground when they come grazing toward Ceylon. The stone gatherers, who remain 
concealed all alwut, then come out in stealthy steps, carefully throw lumps of clay 
over the stones left, and then retire. When after grazing these animals go back to 
the sea, disappointed at not finding the stones and fretting and fuming with rage, 
those people came back and took away the precious stones. 

Staurollte. — In Brittany, France, a superstitious reverence is attached 
to the cruciform crystals of this stone, based on a belief that the}' fell 
from heaven. 

In Virginia and the Carolinas the staurolite. locally known as fairy 
stone, is worn as a lucky charm and is believed to bring good fortune 
and ward off danger and disease. 

Siinstmie. — According to Sanskrit authorities — 

the sunstone is warm, flawless, and good in cold and defective oxidation, and 
sacred; it is an elixir vita;, and is the delight of the Sun. (Mani-Miila.) 

Topaz. — Symbolical of friendship. 

It cooled boiling water on being inmiersed in it; became opaque on 
contact with poisons; restrained anger and desire; cured insanity; 
checked the flow of blood; cleansed hemorrhoids, and averted sudden 
death. (Camillus Leonardus, Speculiun Lapidum.) 

Benoni states that the topaz is favorable for all hemorrhages, and 
imparts strength and good digestion. Powdered and taken in wine 
it cured astiuna and in.'^onmia. (Dissertatio Medica.) 



586 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Rubboa on a hone the topaz gave a milky juice in quantities, and 
yet lost none of its orig-inal weight. The juice was taken internally in 
cases of dropsy, and certain poisonings. Used as an ointment it was 
in repute as a curative for diseases of the eye. (Epiphanius.) 

Worn as an amulet, so sayn Porta, it drove away sadness and night- 
mare; strengthened the intellect and bestowed courage. Mounted in 
gold and* hung around the neck it dispelled enchantments; worn on 
the left hand it preserved its wearer from sensuality. 

In the Honest Jeweller, written in the seventeenth century, the 
statement is made that — 

the virtue and strength of the topaz is said to increase and decrease with the moon, 
and consist in the fact that when thrown into boihng water, it at once deprives it of 
its heat. 

According to the Sanskrit authorities, the — 

topaz is sour, cool, and curative of a])normal oxidation, gives an appetite, and ])rings 
fame and wisdom. 

The Hindu sages held that the medicinal properties of the topaz 
were similar to those of the coral, and in addition it prevented and 
cured sterility. (Mani-Mala.) 

Like the rubj^, the topaz was supposed to possess the power of emit- 
ting light to a great degree. A topaz given by the wife of Theoderic, 
count of Holland, to Adelbert, gave out so brilliant a light in the chapel 
where it was kept that prayers could be read by it. 

Turquoise. — Emblematic of success. Highly valued b}^ all orientals 
and worn by them to insure health and success. Supposed to preserve 
the wearer from injury through accidents. In the presence of poisons 
the stone sweated profusely, a property thought to be characteristic 
of many of the noble gems. Its color paled as its owner sickened and 
was lost entirely on his death, to be recovered only on its becoming 
the property of a healthy person. 

The turquoise, according to Arabian and Persian authorities, as cited 
in the Mani-Mala, cured all diseases of the head and heart. A sover- 
eign remedy for hernia, swellings, flatulence, dyspepsia, insanity, and 
cancerous sores. Whether taken alone, mixed with honey or with 
other drugs, it cures epileps}^ spleen, and stricture. In cases of poison- 
ing or snake })ite, it was given with wine. Aristotle advises a similar 
dose for the same purpose. Applied as an ointment to the eyes, it 
increased their luster, restored the vision, and prevented the fall of 
fluids therefrom. W^orn as an auuilet, the turquoise brought happi- 
ness, dispelled fear, and rendered its wearer safe from drowning, 
lightning stroke, and snake bite. Seen after looking at the moon on 
the first day after the new moon, it brought good luck. 

In Egyi)t cure of a cataract is believed to lie effected by the local 
application of a turquoise set in a silver ring and dipped in water, 



OATALOUUK OK (}EMSS. 587 

the ;ij)plic;iti<)ii ItcMii^' iiccoinpanicMl liy the clinnliiiL:' <»t" lli(> iiuiuc of 
God. 

Vanollte. — Supposed to he ii preveiitix c and cui'e tor \iiriolii (small- 
pox). (Castellaiii, History of (xeiiis.) 

^Vater xapphh'i <n' loJ'ifr. — A woman possessing- a riny set with this 
stone as a signet and on which was eat one-half of a tish, a mirror, a 
branch, and a nude femak^, procured any desire. 

Zircon. — Supposed to bring riches, honor, and wisdom; a cliarm 
against plague and evil spirits; and afforded its wearer protection 
against thunderbolts. (Europe During the Middle Ages.). 

According to the Mani-Mahi — 

The wearing of a weighty, hiytrous, white, cool, tender, very old, and transparent 
gonieda (zircon) leads to jn'osperity. A light, discolored, exceedingly rongh, dehi- 
sion creating, and cool, yet dirty, gomeda blights happiness and saps the fonndations 
of energy. 

The same treatise, speaking of its medicinal value, says: 
The zircon is sour, heating, and curative of unhealthy oxidation, sharpens the 
appetite, helps digestion, and takes away sin. 

In conclusion, it would be expected to lind the belief in the mar- 
velous and medicinal properties of gems prevalent during the age of 
faith, while during the age of reason and inquiry it seems somewhat 
childish that the}" should still continue to exist. In India, the land of 
occultism, the m^'stics still pursue their researches after the occult 
virtues of precious stones. The modern Western spiritualist (Mideavors 
to discover and apply the occult knowledge of the East. He still 
believes in and teaches the virtues of gems, and is emphatic in his 
opinion that certain gems facilitate the rapport of a certain class of 
spirits with the wearers of those gems. 

Swedenborg, the Swedish mystic, in his spirit revelations to L. A. 
Cahagnet, as cited in his Magic Magnetique (Paris, 1838), gives nu- 
merous categorical answers to (juestions asked by the medium concern- 
ing the spiritual and material powers of certain precious stones. 

In Paris a school has been estaldished which has for its ol)ject the 
study of the magnetic emanations, radiance, and cr3'stals. In Nice a 
Dr. de Lignieres has issued a prospectus of a work of O-i'I pages that 
seriously considers the medicinal properties and A'irtues of precious 
stones. 

IX. CATALOGUE OF THE ISAAC LEA COLLECTION 

OF GEMS. 

PREFATORY NOTE. 

The exhibit of gems made by the United States National Museum 
at the New" Orleans and Cincinnati expositions in 1881: and 1885 marked 
the beginning of what is now one of the most complete pu))lic collec- 
tions of gems in the United States. From 1886 to 1890 the growth 



588 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

of the rolloction, thiouoh oift or j)urchuso, was steady, though slow. 
In ISUi the luiisouiii purchased, for exhibition at the World's Colum- 
bian Exposition at Chicago, the greater part of a collection of gems 
belonging to the estate of Dr. Joseph Leidy, of Philadelphia, and 
which was incorporated with the museum collections proper at the 
close of the exposition. In 1894 it became the possessor, under the 
provisions of the will of Mrs. Francis Lea Chamberlain, of a valuable 
collection of 1,316 gems formerly belonging to her father. Dr. Isaac 
Lea, of Philadelphia. This collection, known as the "' Isaac Lea Col- 
lection of Gems," has, since that time, been steadily increased by con- 
tributions from Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. A notable accession of gems 
and gem minerals, chiefly from the United States, was received from 
Dr. Chamberlain in 1896. This, added to the original "Lea Collec- 
tion,'' made it so large that it was decided to incorporate with it all of 
the gem material belonging to the musemii, distinguishing those speci- 
mens obtained b}' gift or deposit, other than the Lea material, by a 
special label. In 189T Dr. Chamberlain was appointed honorary cus- 
todian of the collection, and largely through his efforts the collection 
now contains a fine series of gems native to the United States, includ- 
ing nearly ever}' variety and representing the majority of the gem 
localities. 

In the catalogue is given the name, locality, description, and cata- 
logue numbers of each specimen, and, when donated or deposited, 
.the name of the parties from whom it was received. As all the stones 
were weighed in grams, the weights are given in carats and decimals 
of carats, instead of the more cumbersome fractions. The carat is 
equal to 0.205 gram; its fractions are known as fourths, eighths, six- 
teenths, thirty-seconds, and sixt3'-fourths. 

CATALOGUE. 

Adularla, see Orthodase. 

Agalmatolite. China. A small greenish-gray snuff bottle. Cat. Nos. b-899; 83553. 

Af/almatolitc. China. A carving representing a bird and a tree. Cat. Nos. l>-900; 

51515. 
Agalmatolite. China. A carving representing a group of five baboons. Cat. Nos. 

b-902; 51515. 
A(j(dm<itoHti'. China. Two carved images. Cat. Nos. b-903, 904; 81808. 
Afjuhmilullt,'. China. Two carvings. Cat. Nos. b-905, 906; 8423(>. 
Affahnatolile. Japan. A carved platter brought to Holland by Dutdi merchants 

early in the seventeenth century. Cat. Nos. b-907; 46057. Deposited by G. 

Browne Goode. 
Agate, see Quartz. 
Agatlzed irood, see Quartz. 
Alhite, var. moonstone. A meliaCourt-House, Virginia. Colorless. Double cabochon 

c-ut; 18 by 14 by 10 mm. Cat. Nos. c-285; 50329. 
Alhite, var. moonstone. Amelia Court-House, Virginia. Colorless. Cabochon cut, 

elliptit;al girdle. Four stones varying in size from 10 by 8 by 4 nun. to 16 by 11 

by 5.5 mm. Cat. Nos. c-286-9; 47846. 



CATALOGUF OF GEMS. 589 

Alhllc, var. luoonstoiie. Anieliii CV)urt-Ilou.se, Virjiinia. Whitv, opaque, with line 

change oi c-olor. Single c-abtR-lion cut; elhptical girdle; size, ;50 l>y 10 by 8 mm. 

Cat. Xos. e-290; 8-4184. 
Albite, var. moonstone. Amelia Court-House, Virginia. White, opaque, with change 

of color. Double calxtchon cut; elliptical girdle; size, 14 by 8 by 6 mm. Cat. 

Nos. c-291; 84184. 
Alblie, var. moonstone. Amelia Court-House, Virginia. White, opaque, with change 

of color. Single cabochon cut; elliptical girdle; size, 46 l)y 80 l)y 8 mm. Cat. 

Nos. c-292; 84184. 
Albite, var. moonstone. Amelia Court-House, Virginia. White, opaque, with 

change of color. Single cabochon cut; elliptical girdle; size, 37 by 25 by 9 mm. 

Cat. Nos. c-293; 84184. 
Alexandrite, see Chrysoberyl. 
Abnandite, see Garnet. 
Amazon stone, see Microcline. 
Amber. Coast of the Baltic. Color, wax yellow. A carved bottle 6.5 cm. high. 

Cat. Nos. c-72; 51338. 
Amber. Coast of the Baltic. Color, yellow. Pair of cuff bntttons. Cat. Xos. 

c-91-2; 84246. 
Amber. Coast of the Baltic. A breastpin of 3 beads and a pendant. Cat. Xos. c-93; 

84247. 
Amber. Coast of the Baltic. Necklace of 50 beads on a silk ct)rd. Cat. Nos. c-94; 

84248. 
Amber. Burmah. Color, resin yellow. A heart-shaped charm. Cat. Xos. c-95; 

50259. 
Amber. Burmah. Color, resin brown. A mass of amber having one side polished. 

Cat. Xos. c-96; 50259. 
Amethyst, see Quartz. 
And(dLtsite. Brazil. Color, dark green. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

7 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1 carat. Cat. Nos. a-566; 50326. 
Aiuhdu.site. Brazil. Color, brownish green. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 

6 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.70 carat. Cat. Nos. a-567; 50371. 
Attd(dii!<ite. Brazil. Color, brownish green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle, 

size 11 l)y 6" by 3 mm.; weight, 1.35 carats. Cat. Nos. a-568; 84105. 
Andalusite. Brazil. Brownish green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 10 by 4.5 

by 2 mm.; weight 0.81 carat. Cat. Nos. a-569; 84105. 
Aquamanne, see Beryl. 
Aragonite. Colusa County, California. Single cabochon cut. Color, Ijrown. Size, 

27 by 14 by 7 mm. Cat. Nos. a-597; 84114. 
Aragonite. Colusa County, California. Color, brown. A polished slab. Cat. Nos. 

b-840; 48540. 
Aventuriue, see Quartz. 
Axinile. Dauphiny, France. Color, violet brown. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. 

Sizes, 7.5 by 7 by 4.5 mm.; weight, 1.55 carats. Cat. Nos. a-581; 84109. 
Beekite, see Quartz. 
Beryl. Fitchburg, Massachusetts. Color, yellowish green. Brilliant cut. Size, 6.5 

by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.74 carat. Cat. Nos. 787; 50301. 
Beryl. Litchfield County, Connecticut. Color, brownish yellow. Brilliant cut; cir- 
cular girdle. Size, 6.5 by 5 mm.; weight, 0.96 carat. Cat. Nos. 784; 47568. 

Gift of the New England Mining Company, through J. F. Barse. 
Beryl. Litchfield County, Connecticut. Color, greenish yellow. Brilliant cut; cir- 
cular girdle. Size, 7 by 5 nun.; weight, 1.06 carats. Cat. Nos. 782; 47568. Gift 

of the New England Mining Comi)any, through J. F. Barse. 



590 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSFATM, 1900. 

Beryl. Litchliulil Ciiunty, Connefticut. ( 'olnr, citrine, brilliant cut; circular fiirdle. 

Size, 7.5 by 6 mm. ; weight, 1.43 carats. Cat. Nos. 780; 47568. (lift of the New 

England Mining Company, through J. F. Barse. 
Beryl. Avondale, Pennsylvania. Color, citrine. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. 

Size, 10 by 10 by 7 nnn.; weight, 8.19 carats. Cat. Nos. 792; 50299. 
Beryl. Avondale, Pennsylvania. Color, yellow green. Step-brilliant cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, 8 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.07 carats. ' Cat. Nos. 793; 50299. 
Beryl. Ray's mine, North Carolina. Colorless. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 

8 by 8 by 6 mm.; weight, 1.64 carats. Cat. Nos. 759; 47840. 
Beryl. Ray's mine, North Carolina. Colorless. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 

7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.35 carats. Cat. Nos. 760; 47840. 
Beryl. Ray's mine. North Carolina. Colorless. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 

7 by 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.12 carats. Cat. Nos. 761; 47840. 
Beryl. Ray's mine. North Carolina. Colorless. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 

7 by 7 by 5 nmi.; weight, 1.14 carats. Cat. Nos. 703; 47840. 
Bei-yl. Ray's mine. North Carolina. Colorless. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 

7 by 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.08 carats. Cat. Nos. 764; 47840. 

Beryl. Brazil. Colorless. Brilliant: cut; circular girdle. Size, 13 by 6 mm.; weight, 

4.55 carats. Cat. Nos. 738; 50296. 
Beryl. Brazil. Colorless. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 9 by 5.5 by 

3.5 mm.; weight, 0.87 carat. Cat. Nos. 740; 50296. 
Beryl. Brazil. Color, yellowish green. Step-brilliant cut; oval girdle. Size, 9 by 

6 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.23 carats. Cat. Nos. 743; 82843. The Lea Collection. 
Beryl. Alabashka, the Urals. Color, yellowish green. Table cut. Size, 31 by 16 

by 6.5 mm.; weight, 20.94 carats. Cat. Nos. 713; 50293. 
Beryl. Alabashka, the Urals. Color, yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 18 by 14 by 10 mm.; weight, 17.04 carats. Cat. Nos. 714; 50294. 
Beryl. Alabashka, the Urals. Color, yellow. Table cut. Size, 16 by 13 by 7 mm. ; 

weight, 9.04 carats. Cat. Nos. 715; 50294. 
Beryl. Alabashka, the Urals. Color, yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 12 by 9 by 5 mm.; weight, 3.03 carats. Cat. Nos. 716; 50294. 
Beryl. Alabashka, the Urals. Color, yellow. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 8 by 7 by 6 mm.; weight, 1.69 carats. Cat. Nos. 717; 50294. 
Bei-yl. Alabashka, the Urals. Color, greenish yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, 10 by 8 by 6 mm. ; weight, 3.05 carats. Cat. Nos. 718; 84050. 
Beryl. Alabashka, the Urals. Color, yellow. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 

8 by 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.28 carats. Cat. Nos. 719; 84050. 

Beryl, var. aquamarine. Stoneham, Maine. Color, aquamarine blue. Brilliant 

cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 10 by 9 by 7 mm. ; weight, 3.06 carats. A beautiful 

tiawless gem. Cat. Nos. 789; 84065. 
Berijl, var. aquamarine. Stoneham, Maine. Color, aquamarine green. Brilliant 

cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 7 by 6 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.02 carats. Cat. Nos. 

790; 84065. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Paris, Maine. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 7 Ijy 

5.5 by 5 mm.; weight, 0.96 carat. Cat. Nos. 791; 50300. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Royalston, Massachusetts. Color, deep bluish green. 

Brilliant cut. Size, 14 by 13 by 9 mm; weight, 8.16 carats. Cat. Nos. 785; 84064. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Fitchburg, Massachusetts. Color, faint green. Trap cut; 

rectangular girdle. Size, 7 by 6 by 4 nnn. ; weight, 0.86 carat. Cat. Nos. 786; 

50301. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Fitchburg, Massachusetts. Color, faint yellowish green. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.72 carat. Cat. Nos. 

788; 50301. 



CATALOCJUE OF GEMS. 591 

licn/l, var. aquaiiiarine. P(irtlaiul, Connecticut-. C'olor, deep l)luish green. Bril- 
liant cut; rectangular girdle. Hize, 17 l)y 15 by 10 mm.; weight, 13.91 carats. 

Perhaps the finest specimen ever found at the locality. Cat. Nos. 779; 84063. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Litchfield County, Connecticut. Color, aquamarine green. 

Brilliant cut. Size, 8 by 6 mm.; weight, 1.44 carats. Cat. Nos. 781; 47568. 

Gift of the New England Mining Company, through J. F. Barse. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Litchfield County, Connecticut. Color, pale aquamarine 

green. Brilliant cut. Size, 7 by 5 nun.; weight, 1.09 carats. Cat. Nos. 783; 

47568. Gift of the New England Mining Company, through J. F. Barse. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Asheville, North Carolina. Bluish green. Step-brilliant 

cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 10 by 8 by 7 mm.; weight, 2.79 carats. Cat. Nos. 

777; 50298. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Mitchell's Peak, North Carolina. Color, deep greenish 

blue. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 14 by 12 by 10 mm. ; weight, 

9.32 carats. A superb gem. Cat. Nos. 776; 83729. The Lea Collection, through 

Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Beiyl, var. aquamarine. Mitchell County, North Carolina. Color, blue; opaque. 

Single cabochon cut. Size, 17 by 10 by 6 mm.; weight, 7.24 carats. Cat. Nos. 

778; 81309. Gift of J. K. Bruner. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Near Ray mine, North Carolina. C(jlor, bluish green. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 13 by 9 mm.; weight, 7.43 carats. Cat. Nos. 

746; 83731. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Near Ray mine. North Carolina. Color, Ijluish green. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 11 by 8 mm.; weight, 5 carats. Cat. Nos. 

747; 83731. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Near Ray mine. North Carolina. Color, bluish green. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 9 by 6.5 mm. ; weight, 2.80 carats. Cat. Nos. 

748; 83731. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Near Ray mine. North Carolina. Color, bluish green. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 8 by 6 mm. ; weight, 1.98 carats. Cat. Nos. 

749; 83731. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Near Ray mine. North Carolina. Color, bluish green. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 8 by 6 mm.; weight, 1.48 carats. Cat. Nos. 

750; 83731. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Near Ray mine, North Carolina. Color, bluish green. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.09 carats. Cat. Nos. 

751; 83731. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Near Ray mine. North Carolina. Color, l)luish green. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.01 carats. Cut. Nos. 

752; 83731. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Near Ray mine, North Carolina. Color, bluish green. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 6 by 4.5 mm.; weight, 0.85 carat. Cat. Nos. 

753; 83731. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Near Ray mine. North Carolina. Color, bluish green. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.70 carat. Cat. Nos. 

754; 83731. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Near Ray mine, North Carolina. Color, bluish green. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.64 carat. Cat. Nos. 

755; 83731. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Beryl, var. acjuamarine. Near Ray mine. North Carolina. Color, bluish green. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.39 carat. Cat. Nos. 

756; 83731. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Near Ray mine. North Carolina. Color, pale l)luish green. 

Brilliant cut. Size, 9 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.98 carats. Cat. Nos. 757; 47840. 



592 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Beryl, var. aquamarine. Ray'.s mine, North Carolina. Color, pale greenish yellow. 

Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 8 by 8 by (5 mm.; weight, 1.78 carats. Cat. 

Nos. 758; 47840. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Ray's mine, North Carolina. Color, pale bluish green. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.28 carats. Cat. Nos. 

762; 47840. 
J5cr(/?, var. aquamarine. Ray's mine, North Carolina. Color, faint green. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.03 carats. Cat. Nos. 76-5; 

47840. 
Ber]/!, var. aquamarine. Ray's mine. North Carolina. Color, pale bluish green. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 6.5 by 5 mm.; weight, 0.97 carat. Cat. Nos. 

766; 47840. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Ray's mine. North Carolina. Color, pale bluish green. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 6 by 5 mm.; weight, 0.85 carat. Cat. Nos. 

767; 47840. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Ray's mine. North Carolina. Color, faint green. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.70 carat. Cat. Nos. 768; 

47840. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Ray's mine. North Carolina. Color, pale green. Three 

stones. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Total weight, 1.40 carats. Cat. Nos. 

769-771; 47840. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Ray's mine. North Carolina. Three small stones; brilliant 

cut. Total weight, 0.62 carat. Cat. Nos. 772-774; 47840. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Ray's mine, North Carolina. Color, sea green. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 12 In' 8 mm.; weight, 6.28 carats. Cat. Nos. 775; 

50297. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Brazil. Color, faint sea green. Step-brilliant cut; ellipti- 
cal girdle. Size, 15 by 12.5 by 7 mm.; weight, 7.68 carats. Cat. Nos. 737; 

50296. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Brazil. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; ellipti- 
cal girdle. Size 10 by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.80 carats. Cat. Nos. 739; 50296. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Brazil. Color faint green. Step-brilliant; oval girdle. 

Size, 20 by 10 by 5 mm.; weight, 4.52 carats. Cat. Nos. 741; 82843. The Lea 

Collection. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Brazil. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant I'ut; oval 

girdle. Size, 17 by 9 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.97 carats. Cat. Nos. 742; 82843. 

The Lea Collection. 

Brazil. Color, pale green. Step-brilliant cut; oval girdle, 
weight, 0.55 carat. Cat. Nos. 744; 82843. The Lea 



Beryl, var. aquamarnie. 

Size, 8 by 5 l:)y 3 mm. 

Collection. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Mourne Mountain, Ireland. Color, bluish green. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size 8 by 8 by 6 mm.; weight, 1.72 carats. Cat. Nos. 745; 

84061. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color sea green. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 27 by 23 by 13 mm.; weight, 39.42 carats. Cat. Nos. 693; 50303. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, bluish green. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 26 by 17 by 9 mm.; weight, 21.94 carats. Cat. Nos. 694; 50303. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, bluish green. Table cut. Size, 37 by 12 

by 9 mm.; weight, 28.89 carats. Cat. Nos. 695; 50303. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 19 by 16 by 7 mm.; weight, 12 carats. Cat. Nos. 696; 5030.5. 
£c?'.V^, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, bluish green. Table cut. Size, 11 by 14 

by 7 mm.; weight, 6.79 carats. Cat. Nos. 697; 50303. 



CATALOCJUK OF GEMS. 593 

/)Vj7//, var. aciimniariiu'. Siht't-ia. Color, Muisli uiccii. Stop-brilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Si/e, I(> I)y lo by 7 nini.; weight, 8.44 carats. Cat. NoH. (598; 50o03. 

i)Vv/, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, bluish green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 
Size, 19 by 8 by 6 mm.; weight, 6.22 carats. Cat. Nos. 699; 50303. 

Beryl, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Size, 14 by 12.5 by 6.5 nun. ; weight, 8.03 carats. Cat. Nos. 700; 50295. 

Beryl, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, pale green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 
girdle. Size, 16 by 11 l)y 5 nun.; weight, 4.43 carats. Cat. Nos. 701; 50295. 

Bei-yl, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 
girdle. Size, 17 by 9 by 5 mm.; weight, 4.79 carats. Cat. Nos. 702; 50295. 

Beryl, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Size, 17 by 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 4.61 carats. Cat. Nos. 703; 50295. 

Beryl, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; octago- 
nal girdle. Size, 13 by 13 by 5 mm.; weight, 4.48 carats. Cat. Nos. 704; 50295. 

i?fr?/Z, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Size, 12 by 9 by 5.5 mm. ; weight, 3.87 carats. Cat. Nos. 705; 50295. 

i?eri//, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 
girdle. Size, 11 by 9 l)y 5 mm.; weight, 2.40 carats. Cat. Nos. 706; 50295. 

Beryl, var. aquamarine, Siberia. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, 10 by 9 by 5.5 mm.; weight, 2.88 carats. Cat. Nos. 707; 
50295. 

Beryl, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, sea green. Step-l)rilliant cut; elli])tical 
girdle. Size, 11 by 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 2 carats. Cat. Nos. 708; 50295. 

Beryl, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 
girdle. Size, 29 by 22 by 9 nun.; weight, 46.77 carats. Cat. Nos. 709; 82839. 
The Lea Collection. 

Beryl, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, sea green. Step-brilliant cut; ellii)tical 
girdle. Size, 16 by 12 1)y 7 nun.; weight, 10 carats. Cat. Nos. 710; 82839. The 
Lea Collection. 

Beryl, var. aquamarine. Siberia. Color, greenish blue. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 
Size, 12 by 8 by 6 mm.; weight, 3.20 carats. Cat. Nos. 711; 82839. The Lea 
Collection. 

Beryl, var. aciuamarine. Siberia. Color, pale green. Step-brilliant cut; octagonal 
girdle. Size, 9 by 9 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.90 carats. Cat. Nos. 712; 82839. The 
Lea Collection. 

Beryl, var. aquamarine. Ceylon. Color, pale bluish green. SteiJ-brilliant cut; 
elliptical girdle. Size, 17 by 13 l)y 7 mm., weight, 7.52 (tarats. Cat. Nos. 732; 
82840. The Lea Collection. 

Beryl, var. aquamarine. Ceylon. Color, pale green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 
girdle. Size, 10 by 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.53 carats. Cat. Nos. 733; 82840. 
The Lea Collection. 

Beryl, var. aquamarine. Ceylon. Color, pale green. Step-brilliant cut; elli^jtical 
girdle. Size, 8 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.98 c-arat. Cat. Nos. 734; 82840. The 
Lea Collection. 

Beryl, var. aquamarine. Ceylon. Color, ])ale green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Size, 8 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1 carat. Cat. Nos. 735; 82840. The 
Lea Collection. 

Beryl, var. aquamarine. Ceylon. Color, jjale green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 
girdle. Size, 8 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.02 carats. Cat. Nos. 736; 82840. The 
Lea Collection. 

Beryl, var. a(iuamarine. CVtlor, jkUc green. Step-brilliant cut; cllii)tical girdle. 
Size, 12.3 by 10 l)y 6 mm.; weiglit, 3.90 carats. Cat. Nos. 720; 82844. The Lea 
Collection. 



594 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Biri/l, var. ai|uain:iriiu'. Color, pale tirci'ii. Strp-l)rilliant cut; elliptical j,nr(lk'. 

Size, 12 by it l>y M iiiiii. ; weijilil, .'i.L'S carats, ('at. Nun. 7".il; 82844. Tlie Lea 

Collection. 
Beryl, var. aquainarine. Color, pale green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 10 by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.74 carats. Cat. Nos. 722; 82844. The Lea 

Collection. 
Jierj/l, var. atiuaniarine. Color, pale green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 9 by 7 by 3.5 inm.; weight, 1.15 carats. Cat. Nos. 723; 82844. The Lea 

Collection. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Color, pale green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size 9 by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.22 carats. Cat. Nos. 724; 82844. The Lea 

Collection. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Color, pale green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 10 by 6 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.88 carat. Cat. Nos. 725; 82844. The Lea 

Collection. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Color, sea green. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 by 

7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.13 carats. Cat. Nos. 726; 82844. The Lea Collection. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 9 by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.93 carats. Cat. Nos. 727; 84060. 
7?eri/Z, var. aquamarine. Color, sea green. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 by 

7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.23 carats. Cat. Nos. 728; 84060. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Color, pale green. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 

by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.81 carat. Cat. Nos. 729; 84060. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 7 by 5 by 3 nun.; weight, 0.90 carat. Cat. Nos. 730; 84060. 
Beryl, var. aquamarine. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle 

Size, 6 by 4 by 2 mm.; weight, 0.25 carats. Cat. Nos. 731; d-4060. 
Beryl, var. emerald. Stonypoint, Alexander County, North Carolina. Color, 

emerald green. Trap cut. One lot of 26 small emeralds having an average size 

of 4 by 3.5 by 3 mm. Cat. Nos. 801 to 826; 83127. The Lea Collection; gift of 

Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Beryl, var. emerald. Stonypoint, Alexander County, North Carolina. Color, 

emerald green. A crystal 7.6 by 4.2 cm.; weight, 8 oz. 3 dwts., the largest 

ever found in the United States. It is doubly terminated by base. Cat. Nos. 

b-865; 83730. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Beryl, var. emerald. Stonypoint, Alexander County, North Carolina. Three crystals. 

Cat. Nos. b-866-868; 83727. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Beryl, var. emerald. Muso, U. S. of Colombia. A crystal of emerald in a calcite 

geode. Cat. Nos. b-869; 83848. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Cham- 
berlain. 
Beryl, var. emerald. Color, emerald green. Table cut. Size, 8 by 6 by 4 mm.; 

weight, 1.37 carats. Cat. Nos. 794; 50302. 
Beryl, var. emerald. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 6.5 by 6 by 3 mm. ; 

weight, 0.68 carat. Cat. Noa. 795; 50302. 
Beryl, var. emerald. Trap cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 6 by 5 by 3 mm.; weiglit, 

0.50 carat. Cat. Nos. 796; 50302. 
5ert/?, var. emerald. A polished pebble. Weight, 4. 72 carats. Cat. Nos. 797; 84066. 
Beryl, var. emerald. Step-brilliant cut. Three small stones having a weight of 0.40 

carat. Cat. Nos. 798-800; 84066. 
Beryl, var. emerald. Step-brilliant cut. An emerald doublet .set in a gold ring. 

Cat. Nos. 827; 82842. The Lea Collection. 
Beryl, var. emerald. Step cut. An " off-color" stone set in a gold ring. Cat. Nos. 

828; 84067. 



oATALofiUK OF gp:ms. 595 

Brri/l, var. emerald. Step eut. 8et in a gold ring witii 4 diamond chips, one of 

which is missing. Cat. Nos. 829; 84068. 
Beri/Ilojiite. Stoneham, Maine. Colorless Brilliant cnt; scjuare girdle. Size, lll)y 

11 by 8 mm.; weight, 4.88 carats. Cat. Nos. c-423; 51130. 
Beri/llonUe. Stoneham, Maine. Colorless. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 

10 by 10 by 7 mm.; weight, 3.76 carats. Cat. Nos. c-424; 50334. 

Bcri/IIonite. Stoneham, Maine. Colorless. Brilliant cut. Size, 9 by 9 by 7.5 mm.; 

weight, 3.25 carats. Cat. Nos. c-425; 48449. 
Blooddom, see Quartz. 
Bowenite, see Serpentine. 
Carbonate of lime. Fossil coral. Petosky, Mii;higan. A polished l)lock 5.7 by 3.9 

by 2 cm. Cat. Nos. b-915; 48325. Gift of E. F. Boss. 
Carbonate of lime. Fossil coral. Iowa. Two paper weights. Cat. Nos. b-916; 50394 

and b-917; 84238. 
Carbonate of lime. Limestone. Japan. A veined black and white limestone carved. 

The artist has cleverly taken advantage of the colors in the stone and pro- 
duced a black dragon with Fusi Yama in the distance. Cat. Nos. b-918; 51722. 
Carbonate of lime. Lumachelle, or tire marble. Carinthia, Austria. A slab, one of the 

best of its kind, of highly fossiliferous limestone, in which the original color of 

the fossils has been so deepened and intensified that it rivals the finest of fire opal. 

Cat. Nos. b-919; 45015. 
Carbonate of lime. Brecciated marble. Japan. Eleven balls averaging 8 cm. in 

diameter. Cat. Nos. b-922; 84471. Gift of 0. C. Marsh. 
Carbonate of lime. Onyx. Siskiyou County, California. Two paper weights. Cat. 

Nos. b-913-4; 47356. Gift of J. S. Diller. 
Carbonate of lime. Stalagmite. Rock of Gibraltar, Europe. A mounted cannon. 

Cat. Nos. b-921; 46005. 
Cornelian, see Quartz. 
Catiftiterite. Chesterfield County, South Carolina. Color, yellow tinged with green. 

Brilliant-cut stone mounted as a scarf pin. Cat. Nos. a-623; 84170. Deposited 

by T. M. Chatard. 
Catlinite. Couteau du Prairie, Pipestone County, Minnesota. An Indian pipe. Cat. 

Nos. l)-864; 50384. 
Catlinite. Couteau du Prairie, Pipestone County, Minnesota. Carving of Indian 

chief's head cut by Patrick. Cat. Nos. b-863; 45112. Gift of J. F. Boughter. 
Cat's-eije, see Chrysol)eryl or Quartz. 
Cltalcedony, see Quartz. 
Chlorastrolite, see Prehnite. 
Chromiciron. Thetford, Canada. One lot of 5 unbored beads. Cat. Nos. c-248-252; 

83343. The Lea collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberiain. 
Clmj^oberyl. Brazil. Color, greenish yellow. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 

11 by 11 by 7.5 cm.; weight, 6.7 carats. Cat. Nos. 640; 60327. 

CItri/.'ioberyl. Brazil. Color, greenish yellow. Brilliant cut. Size, 10 by 7 by 5 mm. ; 

weight, 2.44 carats. Cat. Nos. 641; 50327. 
Cliry-wberyl. Brazil. Color, greenish yellow. Step-brilliant cut. Size, 8 by 7 by 4 

mm.; weight, 1.80 carats. Cat. Nos. 642; 50327. 
CJirysoberyl. Brazil. Color, greenisii yellow. Table (!ut. Size, 7 I>y5by3mm.; 

weight, 0.97 carat. Cat. Nos. 643; 50327. 
Chry{f()t>eryl. Brazil. Color, greenish yellow. Step-brilliant (mt. Size, 7.5 by 6 by 

3 mm.; weight, 0.94 carat. Cat. Nos. 644; 50327. 
CJirysoberyl. Brazil. Color, pale yellowish green. Table cut. Size, 5.5 by 3 mm.; 

weight, 0.72 carat. Cat. Nos. 645; 50327. 
Cliryfioberyl. Brazil. Color, pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut. Sizi', 6 by 5 by 2 imn. ; 

weight, 0.45 carat. Cat. Nos. 646; 50327. 



596 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Chrysobenjl. Brazil. Color, greenish yellow. Step-brilliant cut. Size, 5 by 5 by 3 

mm.; weight, 0.48 carat. Cat. Nos. 647; 50327. 
Clirifmberyl. Brazil. Color, greenish yellow. Step-brilliant cut; pentagonal girdle. 

Size, 5 by 5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.47 carat. Cat. Nos. 648; 50327. 
ChnjsoherijL Brazil. Color, greenish yellow. Step-brilliant cut. Weight, 2.53 

carats. A lot of 13 small stones. Cat. Nos. 649; 50327. 
Chrysobenjl. Brazil. Color, greenish yellow. A lot of 26 small cut stones. Weight, 

2.71 carats. Cat. Nos. 662; 82823. The Lea Collection. 
Cbrysoberyl. Ceylon. Color, dark green. Brilliant cut. Size, 10 by 9 by 7 mm.; 

"weight, 5 carats. Cat. Nos. 634; 50098. 
Chryxoheryl. Ceylon Color, dark greenish brown. Step-brilliant cut. Size, 8 1)y 

7 by 6 mm.; weight, 3.01 carats. Cat. Nos. 635; 50098. 
Cbrysoberyl . Ceylon. Color, brownish green. Step-brilliant cut. Size, 12 by 10 

by 4 mm.; weight, 3.81 carats. Cat. Nos. 636; 82823. The Lea Collection. 
Chrysoberyl. Ceylon. Color, yellowish green. Step-brilliant cut. Size, 7 by 6 by 5 

mm.; weight, 1.86 carats. Cat. Nos. 637; 82822. The Lea Collection. 
Chrysoberyl. Ceylon. Color, brown. Step-brilliant cut. Size, 8 by 6 by 9 mm.; 

weight, 4.15 carats. Cat. Nos. 638; 84048. 
Chrysoberyl. Ceylon. Color, brown. Rose cut; circular girdle. Size, 6.5 by 4 mm. ; 

"weight, 1.13' carats. Cat. Nos. 639; 84048. 
Chrysoberyl, var. alexandrite. The Urals. Color, emerald green. Step cut. Size, 

6.5 by 5.5 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 1.07 carats. Cat. Nos. 688; 82821. The Lea 

Collection. 
Chrysoberyl, var alexandrite. The Urals. Color, emerald green. Step-brilliant cut. 

Size, 6 by 5 by 2 mm.; weight, 0.37 c^rat. Cat. Nos. 689; 82821. The Lea 

Collection. 
Chrysoberyl, var. alexandrite. The Urals. Color, emerald green. Trap cut. Size, 

5 by 4 by 3 mm. ; weight, 0.42 carat. Cat. Nos. 690; 82821. The Lea Collection. 
Chrysoberyl, var. alexandrite. The Urals. Color, emerald green. Step-brilliant 

cut. Size, 8 by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.19 carats. Cat. Nos. 691; 84049. 
Chrysoberyl, var. cat's-eye. Siam. Cabochon cut; 1 7 cat's-eyes and 16 diamond chips 

mounted in a heavy gold tower ring of Oriental workmanship. Cat. Nos. 692; 

82847. 
Chrysolite. Arizona. Color, bottle green. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 9 by 

6 mm.; weight, 2.67 carats. Cat. Nos. a-557; 82818. The Lea Collection. 
Cltrysolite. Near Fort Wingate, Arizona. Color, bottle green. Brilliant cut; circu- 
lar girdle. Size, 8 by 6 mm.; weight, 1.61 carats. Cat. Nos. a-558; 50101. 

Chrysolite. Near Fort AVingate, Arizona. Color, dark green. Brilliant cut; circular 

girdle. Size, 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.44 carats. Cat. Nos. a-559; 50101. 
Chrysolite. Near Fort Wingate, Arizona. Color, dark green. Brilliant cut; circular 

girdle. Size, 7.5 by 5.5 nun.; weight, 1.52 carats. Cat. Nos. a-560; 50101. 
Chrysolite. Near Fort Wingate, Arizona. Color, dark green. Size, 7.5 by 5 mm.; 

w^eight, 1.20 carats. Cat. Nos. a-561; 50101. 
Chrysolite. Near Fort Wingate, New Mexico. Color, dark green. Brilliant cut. 

Size, 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.38 carats. Cat. Nos. a-562; 50101. 
Chrysolite. Near Fort Wingate, New Mexico. Color, green. Step-brilliant cut; 

rectangular girdle. Size, 7 by 6 by 4 mm. ; weight, 1.06 carats. Cat. Nos. a-563; 

50101 . 
Chrysolite. The Levant. Color, yellowish green. Step cut. Size, 15 by 12 by 6 

mm.; weight, 8.64 carats. Cat. Nos. a-553; 50331. 
Chrysolite. The Levant. Color, bottle green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

20 by 16 by 7 mm.; weight, 18.06 carats. Cat. Nos. a-554; 84102. 
Chrysolite. Ceylon. Color, yellowish brown. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 14 by 9 by 8 mm.; weight, 8.27 carats. Cat. Nos. a-555; 82915. The Lea 

Collection. 



catalogup: of gems. 597 

Cliryxdlitc. (Vyldii. Coldf, pale yt'Uow. Step-brilliant cut; clliiitical trinllc. Size, 

5.5 by 5 l)y B mm.; weight, 0.42 earats. Cat. Nos. a-55(>; 82015. Tlie Lea 

Collection. 
ChrysopraKe, see Quartz. 
Corundum, var. ruby. Corundum Hill, Macon County, North Cai'olina. Color, 

blood red. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, !» l»y 5 Ijy 4 nun.; 

weight, 1.49 carat.s. Cat. Nop. 194; 50289. 
Coruiiditm, \a.T. ruby. Corundum Hill, Macon County, North Cai-olina. Color, 

blood red. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 6 by 6 l>y 4 mm.; weight, 

0.87 caratH. Cat. Nos. 195; 50289. 
Corundum, var. ruby. Corundum Hill, Macon County, North Carolina. Color, 

blood red. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 4 by 4 by 2.5 nun; weight, 

0.33 carats. Cat. Nos. 196; 50289. 
Corundum, var. ruby. Ceylon. Color, violet red. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 11 by 7 l)y 0.5 mm.; weight, 4.09 carats. Cat. Nos. 197; 82887. 

The Lea Collection. 
Conindum, var. ruby. C'eylon. Color, deep rose red. Rose cut; heart-shaped 

girdle. Size, 13 l)y 10 l)y 7 nun.; weight, 6.67 carats. Cat. Nos. 198; 82887. 

The Lea Collection. 
Cor((Hr?((m, var. ruby. Cejdon. Color, blood red. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. 

Size, 5 by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, O.SO carats. Cat. Nos. 200; 82887. The Lea 

Collection. 
Cor«»(f?(m, var. ruby. Ceylon. Color, blood red. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. 

Size, 6 by 6 by 3 mm. ; weight, 0.86 carats. Cat. Nos. 201 ; 82887. The Lea Col- 
lection. 
Corundum, var. ruby. Ceylon. Color, violet red. Step-1)rilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 6.5 by 6 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.23 carats. Cat. Nos. 202; 82887. The 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. ruby. Ceylon. Color, blood red. Step-l)rilUant cut; oval girdle. 

Size, 7.5 by 6 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.72 carats. Cat. Nos. 203; 82887. The Lea 

Collection. 
Corundum, var. ruby. Ceylon. Color, blood red. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 6 by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.80 carats. Cat. Nos. 205; 82887. The 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. ruby. Ceylon. Color, blood red. Step-brilliant cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 5.5 by 3 mm. ; weight, 0.61 carats. Cat. Nos. 206; 828S7. The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, yar. ruby. Ceylon. Color, blood red. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 6 })y 4.5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.61 carats. Cat. Nos. 207; 82877. The Lea 

Collection. 
Corundum, var. ruby. Ceylon. Color, blood red. [Jtep-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 5.5 by 4.5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.62 carats. Cat. Nos. 208; 82877. 

The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. ruby. Ceylon. Color, bright red. Brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 6 by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.69 carats. Cat. Nos. 209; 82877. The Lea 

Collection. 
Corundum, var. ruby. Ceylon. Color, red, of several shades. 245 small rubies, 

having a total weight of 21. .32 carats. Cat. Nos. 219-164; 82877. The Lea 

Collection. 
Corundum, xar. ruby. Asteria. Ceylon. Color, milky red. Cabochon cut; circular 

girdle. Size, 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.47 carats. Cat. Nos. 199; 82877. The Lea 

Collection. 
Corundum, \ar. raby. Asteria. Ceylon. Color, blood red. Cabochon cut; ellipti- 
cal girdle. Size, 7 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.25 carats. Cat. Nos. 204; 82877. 

The Lea Collection. 



598 BEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Corund ntn, yawrnhy. Asteria. Ceylon. Color, red. C/abochon cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 1 1 l)y 9 nun. ; weight, 9. 10 carats. Cat. Nos. 210; 82886. The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var.rn])}'. Asteria. Ceylon. Color, red. Cabochon cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 7 by 4 mm. ; weight, 1.27 carats. Cat. Nos. 211 ; 82886. The Lea Collection. 
Conmrfrmi, var. ruby. Asteria. Ceylon. Color, grayish red. Cabochon cut; circu- 
lar girdle. Size, 6.5 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.55 carats. Cat. Nos. 212; 82886. The 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. ruby. Asteria. Ceylon. Color, violet red. Cabochon cut; circular 

girdle. Size, 6 by 6 mm.; weight, 2.30 carats. Cat. Nos. 213; 82886. The Lea 

Collection. 
Corundum, var. ruby. Asteria. Ceylon. Color, milky red. Cabochon cut; circular 

girdle. Size, 6 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.33 carats. Cat. Nos. 214; 82886. The Lea 

Collection. 
Corundum, var. ruby. Asteria. Ceylon. Color, grayish red. Cabochon cut; cir- 
cular girdle. Size, 6 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.13 carats. Cat. Nos. 215; 82886. The 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. ruby. Asteria. Color, blood red. Cabochon cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.53 carats. Cat. Nos. 216; 50264. 
Corundum, var. ruby. Asteria. Color, blood red. Cabochon cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 7 by 7 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.04 carats. Cat. Nos. 217; 50264. 
Corundum, w&T. rnhy. Color, blood red. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 5.5 l)y 

5.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1 carat, llounted in ring. Cat. Nos. 218; 82888. The 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Corundum Hill, Macon County, North Carolina. Color, 

dark greenish blue. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 11 by 8 by 6 

mm.; weight, 3.56 carats. Cat. Nos. 162; 50289. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Corundum Hill, Macon County, North Carolina. Color, 

pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 9 by 7 by 5 mm.; 

weight, 1.87 carats. Cat. Nos. 163; 50289. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Corundum Hill, Macon County, North Carolina. Color, 

pale greenish yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 6 by 4 by 3 

mm.; weight, 0.74 carats. Cat. Nos. 164; 50289. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Corundum Hill, INIacon County, North Carolina. Color, 

bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 6.5 by 5 by 4 mm.; 

weight, 1 carat. Cat. Nos. 165; 50289. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Corundum Hill, Macon County, North Carolina. Color, 

Prussian blue, with a green play of color. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 5.5 by 4 by 4 mm. ; weight, 0.76 carats. Cat. Nos. 166; 50289. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Corundum Hill, Macon County, North Carolina. Color, 

pale yellowish green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 6 by 3.5 by 

2 mm.; Aveight, 0.42 carats. Cat. Nos. 167; 50289. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Corundum Hill, Macon County, North Carolina. Color, 

pale bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 5 by 3.5 by 3 

mm.; weight, 0.35 carat. Cat. Nos. 168; 50289. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Corundum Hill, JNIacon County, North Carolina. Color, 

blue. Step-brilliant cut; oval girdle. Size, 8 by 6 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.94 

carat. Cat. Nos. 169; 47314. Gift of Clarence S. Bement. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Montana. Color, pale green. Table cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 9 by 6 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.43 carats. Cat. Nos. 156; 50290. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Montana. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; 

square girdle. Size, 5.5 by 5.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.80 carat. Cat. Nos. 157; 

47315. Gift of Clarence S. Bement. 
Corundum, var. sajjphire. Montana. Color, greenish blue. Brilliant cut; square 

girdle. Size, 6 by 6 by 5 nun.; weight, 1.12 carats. Cat. Nos. 158; 84042, 



OATALOaiTE OF GEMS. 599 

Coruiidnui, var. gapi»hirf. Moiitaiui. Color, wine yellow. Brilliant tut; sijuare 
frinlle. Size, 6 hy 5.5 l>y :j mm.; weight, 0.~0 carat. Cat. Nos, 159; 84042. 

Corundum, \ar. sappliire. Montana. Color, bluissh green. Brilliant cut; circular 
girdle. Size, 5 l)y 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.70 carat. Cat. Xos. 160; 84042. 

Coriindiuii, var. sapphire. ^Montana. Color, straw yellow. Brilliant cut; square 
girdle. Size, 4 by 4 by 2 mm.; weight, 0.26 carat. Cat. Nos. 161; 84042. 

CoriDtdutii, var. sapphire, ilontana. Twenty-one stones selected to show variations 
in color and varying in weight fi'om 1 to 3.5 carats. Cat. Nos. c. 457; 84478. 
The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 

Conuidniii, var. sajjphire. Yogo gulch, Fergus County, Montana. Color, royal 
l)hie. Step-brilliant cut. Weight, 3.5 carats. Cat. Nos. c. 458; 84482. The 
Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 

Coni)i(luiii, var. sapphire. The L'^rals, Siberia. Color, deep blue. Step-brilliant 
cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 7 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.16 carats. Cat. Nos. 170; 
50291 . 

Coriuidniii, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, strongly dichroic — c=prussian blue; 
a=sky blue. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 18 by 12 by 15 mm.; 
weiglit, 28.06 carats. Cat. Nos. 1; 82895. The Lea Collection. 

Corandioii, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, lemon yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rec- 
tangular girdle. Size, 12 by 10 bj' 7 mm.; weight, 7.41 carats. Cat. Nos. 2; 
82895. The Lea Collection. 

Con(Hf/H?/i, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, sea green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Size, 12.5 by 11 by 8.5 mm.; weight, 7.145 carats. Cat. Nos. 3; 
82895. The Lea Collection. 

Curunduin, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, prussiau blue. Step-brilliant cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size, 14 by 10 by 4.5 mm.; weight, 6.434 carats. Cat. Nos. 4; 
82895. The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, sky blue. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 
girdle. Size, 14 by 10 by 9 mm.; weight, 10.51 carats. Cat. Nos. 5; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, bluish gray. Step-brilliant cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, 17 by 13.5 by 10 mm.; weight, 21 carats. Cat. Nos. 6; 
82895. The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, sky blue. Step-brilliant cut; square 
girdle. Size, 12 by 13 by 8.5 nnn.; weight, 11.05 carats. Cat. Nos. 7; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, lavender blue. Step-brilliant cut; circu- 
lar girdle. Size, 10 by 10 by 7 mm.; weight, 5.35 carats. Cat. Nos. 8; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, jiale bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; 
rectangular girdle. Size, 13 by 10 by 6 mm.; weight, 4.16 carats. Cat. Nos. 9; 
82895. The Lea Collection. 

Coruiuhon, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, smalt blue. Step-brilliant cut; square 
girdle. Size, 12 by 11 by 6 mm.; weight, 6.76 carats. Cat. Nos. 10; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, violet blue. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 
girdle. Size, 13 by 8 by 13 mm. ; weight, 12.89 carats. Cat. Nos. 1 1 ; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 

(.'(»•«/('//()/(, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, blue. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 
Size, 5 by 4.5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.57 carats. Cat. Nos. 12; 82895. The Lea Col- 
lection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, smalt blue. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 
girdle. Size, 11 by 9 by 7 mm.; weight, 5.12 carats. The Lea Collection. 

NAT MUS 1900 il 



600 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Cor»m^<»?, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 
Size, 10 by 7.5 by 6 mm.; weight, 3.41 carats. Cat. Nos. 14; 82895. The Lea 
Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, prussian blue. Step-brilliant cut; square 
girdle. Size, 10.5 by 10 by 5 mm.; weight, 3.96 carats. Cat. Nos. 15; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale jiink. Step-briliiant cut; elliptical 
girdle. Size, 9 by 7.5 by 5 mm,; weight, 2.68 carats. Cat. Nos. 16; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale blue. Step-brilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Size, 10 by 8 by 4.5 mm. ; weight, 2.58 carats. Cat. Nos. 17; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, wine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size, 9.5 by 7.5 by 5 mm. ; weight, 3.22 carats. Cat. Nos. 18; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale blue. Step-brilliant cut; circular 
girdle. Size, 9 by 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.74 carats. Cat. Nos. 19; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 

Ceylon. Color, sky blue. Step-brilliant cut; oval girdle, 
weight, 2.89 carats. Cat. Nos. 20; 82895. The Lea Col- 



Corundum, var. sapphire. 

Size, 8 by 7 by 6 mm. 

lection. 
Corunduni, var. sapphire. 



Ceylon. Color, violet. Step-brilliant cut; circular girdle. 



Size, 8 by 8 by 5.5 mm.; weight, 2.35 carats. Cat. Nos. 21; 82895. The Lea 
Collection. 
Corundinii, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, light bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; 
rectangular girdle. Size, 10 by 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 3.19 carats. Cat. Nos. 22; 
82895. The Lea Collection. 

Color, sky blue. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 
weight, 2.10 carats. Cat. Nos. 23; 82895. The 



Color, pale blue. Step-brilliant cut; oval gir- 
weight, 4.41 carats. Cat. Nos. 24; 82895. The 



Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. 

girdle Size, 9 by 7 by 4 mm.; 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. 

die. Size, 10.5 by 8 by 6 mm.; 

Lea Collection. 
Coru)iduni, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, milk white. Cabochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 12.5 by 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 3.48 carats. Cat. Nos. 25; 82895. 

The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, light violet. Step-brilliant cut; square 

girdle. Size, 7 by 7 by 4 nun.; weight, 1.86 carats. Cat. Nos. 26; 82895. The 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale violet. Step-brilliant cut; rec- 
tangular girdle. Size, 9 ])y 7 by 6 mm. ; weight, 3.51 carats. Cat. Nos. 27; 82895. 

The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, smalt bine. Step-brilliant cut; circular 

girdle. Size, 7 by 7 by 6 nun.; weight, 1.74 carats. The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale greenish yellow. Step-brilliant 

cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 9 by 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.28 carats. Cat. Nos. 29; 

82895. The Lea Collection. 
Corundviu, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, lemon yellow. Step-brilliant (!Ut; rec- 
tangular girdle. Size, 10 by 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.97 carats. Cat. Nos. 31; 

82895. The Lea Collection.' 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, smalt })lue. Step cut; square girdle. 

Size, 7 by 7 })y 7 mm.; weight, 2.89 carats. Cat. Nos. 32; 82895. The Lea 

Collection. 



OATALOCUTK OF OKMS. 601 

Corinidinn, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, lemon yellow. Step-brilliant eut; ree- 
■ tangnlar u;ir(lle. Size, 10 l)y 7 by 6 mm.; wei<^lit, 111 9 carats. Cat. Nop. 33; 
82895. The Lea Collection. 

Cornridum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, (jrayish blue. Step-brilliant cut; rec- 
tangular girdle. Size, 7.25 by 6.5 by 6 mm.; weight, 2.38 carats. The Lea 
Collection. 

Corundum, var. sajiphire. Ceylon. Color, pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elli])ti- 
cal girdle. Size, 9 by 7.5 by 4.5 mm.; weight, 2.31 carats. Cat. Nos. 35; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Corufiihtni, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut; square 
girdle. Size, 5.5 by 5.5 ))y 3.25 mm.; weight, 0.73 carats. Cat. Nos. 36; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Corutubon, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale l)lue. Step-brilliant (-ut; s<iuare 
girdle. Size, 7 l)y 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.62 carats. Cat. Nos. 37; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, lemon yellow. Step-brilliant cut; circu- 
lar girdle. Size, 8 by 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.87 carats. Cat. Nos. 38; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, 7 by 5.5 by 4.5 mm.; weight, 1.42 carats. Cat. Nos. 39; 
82895. The Lea Collection. 

Conindum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, bluish gray. Step-brilliant cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, 6 by 5 by 6 mm. ; weight, 1.45 carats. Cat. Nos. 40; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. saj^phire. Ceylon. Color, lilac. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 
Size, 8 by 6 by 4 nmi.; weight, 1.36 carats. Cat. Nos. 41; 82895. The Lea 
Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, wine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; ellii)ti- 
cal girdle. Size, 8 by 4 by 6 mm.; weight, 1.48 carats. Cat. Nos. 42; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

C'orit)irf«w/, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, lemon yellow. Step-brilliant cut; imsym- 
metrical girdle. Size, 7.5 by 7.5 by 4.75 mm.; weight, 1.93 carats. Cat. Nos. 
43; 82895. The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, smalt blue. Step-brilliant cut; square 
girdle. Size, 7 by 6.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.31 carats. Cat. Nos. 44; 82895. Tne 
Lea Collection. 

CorwHdiHH, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, prussian blue. Step-brilliant cut; ellipti- 
cal girdle. Size, 6 by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1 carat. Cat. ^^os. 45; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 

Co?-»)((/((>H, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, lemon yellow. Step-brilliant cut; ellipti- 
cal girdle. Size, 8 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.74 car.iC:_^. Cat. Nos. 46; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Cor»/irfMHi, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, blue. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 
Size, 8 by 6 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 1.57 carats. Cat. Nos. 47; 82895. The Lea 
Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, lemon yellow. Step-brilliant cuit; oval 
girdle. Size, 7.5 by 5 by 4 mm. ; weight, 1.24 carats. Cat. Nos. 48; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, sky ])lue. Step-l)rilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Size, 8 by 5 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.53 carats. Cat. Nos. 49; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, 7 by 6 1)y 4 mm.; weight 1.33 carats. Cat. Nos. 50; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 



()02 



KEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 19(10. 



Corundum, var. sappliiiv. C^eylon. Color, aky blue. Step-brilliant cut; oval girdle. 

Size, 5.5 by 4 by 4 nun.; weight, 0.70 carat. Cat. Nos. 51; 82895. The Lea 

Collection. 
Corundum, var. sappliire. Ceylon. Color, pale blue. Step-brilliant cut; circular 

girdle. Size, 7 ])y 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.16 carats. Cat. Nos. 52; 82895. The 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, lilac;. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 8 by 7 by 2 mm.; weight, 0.80 carat. Cat. Nos. 53; 82895. The 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Ctjlor, wine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size 7 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.23 carats. Cat. Nos. 54; 82895. 

The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, violet. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 8 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.20 carats. Cat. Nos. 55; 82895. The 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, bluish white. Step-brilliant cut; circular 

girdle. Size, 6.5 by 6.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.13 carats. Cat. Nos. 56; 82895. 

The Lea Collection. 

Ceylon. Color, lavender blue. Step cut; square girdle, 
weight, 1.58 carats. Cat. Nos. 57; 82895. The Lea Col- 



Corundum, var. sapphire. 

Size, 6 by 6 by 5 mm 

lection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. 

girdle. Size, 7 by 5.5 by 5 mm. 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. 



Color, claret. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 
weight, 1.42 carats. Cat. Nos. 58; 82895. The 

Color, pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut; ellip- 



tical girdle. Size, 6.5 by 5 by 4.5 mm.; weight, 1.08 carats. 
82895. The Lea Collection. 



Cat. Nos. 59; 



Color, light bluer Step-brilliant cut; circular 
weight, 1.38 carats. Cat. Nos. 60; 82895. The 



Color, Prussian blue. Step-brilliant cut; ellip- 
[•arat. Cat. Nos. 61; 82895. 



Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon, 
girdle. Size, 7 by 7 by 4 mm.; 
Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. 

tical girdle. Size, 7 by 6 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 1 
The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, straw yellow. Step-brilliant cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size, 6 l>y 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1 carat. Cat. Nos. 62; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Colorless, with blue blotches. Step-brilliant 
cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 7 by 5.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.19 carats. Cat. Nos. 
63; 82895. The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, l^lue. Step-brilliant cut; circular girdle. 
Size, 7 by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.50 carats. Cat. Nos. 64; 82895. The Lea 
Collection. 

Corundnm, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Colorless. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 
6 by 6 by 3 mm.; weight, 1 carat. Cat. Nos. 65; 82895. The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. samphire. Ceylon. Color, blue. Step cut; square girdle. Size, 6 
by 6 by 4 mm!; weight, 1.22 carats. Cat. Nos. 66; 82895. The Lea Collection. 

CorMnrfm?!, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, lemon yellow. Step-brilliant cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size, 6 by 5 by 3 mm.; weight, 1 carat. Cat. Nos. 67; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, deep blue. Step-brilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Size, 6 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1 carat. Cat. Nos. 68; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, grayish ]iink. Step cut; square girdle. 
Size, 4 by 4 by 2.5 mm.; weight, 0.50 carat. Cat. Nos. 69; 82895. The Lea 
Collection, 



CATALOC4UE OF GEMS. 603 

Cnrinidiitu, var. sai^pliirc. ("ryloii. Color, ainethystiiu'. Step-brilliaiil cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, () hy 5 l)y 4 mm.; weight, 0.!>4 carat. Cat. Nos. 70; 82895. 

The Lea Collection. 
Coruiirlum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, deep violet blue. Step-brilliant cut; 

oval girdle. Size, 6.5 by 5 by 3.5 mm. ; weight, 0.90 carat. Cat. Nos. 71 ; 82895. 

The Lea Collection. 
CornmhuH, var. sapjihire. Ceylon. Color, pale blue. Step-brilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Size, 6 by 4.5 by 5 mm.; weight, L12 carats. Cat. Nos. 72; 82895. 

The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sajJiihire. Ceylon. Colorle^^, with blue streaks. Step-biilliant cut; 

rectangular girdle. Size, 6.5 by 5 by 4 nun.; weight, 0.83 carat. Cat. Nos. 73; 

82895. The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Colorless, blotched with blue. Step-brilliant 

cut. Size, 7 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, L32 carats. Cat. Nos. 74; 82895. The 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Colorless, with bluish streaks. Step-brilliant 

cut; oval girdle. Size, 6 by 6 by 5 mm.; weight, L40 carats. Cat. Nos. 75; 

82895. The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, 6 l)y 5 by 5 mm.; weight, L15 carats. Cat. Nos. 76; 82895. 

The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Colorless, with blue streaks. Step-brilliant cut; 

elliptical girdle. Size, 6.5 by 5 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.24 carats. Cat. Nos. 77; 

82895. The Ler, Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale blue. Step-brilliant cut; .elliptical 

girdle. Size, 7 by 5 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.26 carats. Cat. Nos. 78; 82895. The 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale blue. Step-brilliant cut; sqiiare 

girdle. Size, 6 l)y 6 l)y 4 mm.; weight, 1.08 carats. Cat. Nos. 79; 82895. The 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, lilac. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 6.5 by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.05 carats. Cat. Nos. 80; 82895. 

The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, light blue. Step-brilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Size, 6 by 5 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.77 carats. Cat. Nos. 81; 82895. 

The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Colorless, with blue blotches. Step-brilliant 

cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 6 by 4.5 l)y5mm.; weight, 0.93 carat. Cat. Nos. 

82; 82895. The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Colorless. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 6 by 5 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.75 carat. Cat. Nos. 83; 82895. The 

I^ea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale blue. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 7 by 5 by 4 mm.; -weight, 1.01 carats. Cat. Nos. 84; 82895. The 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Colorless, with blue streaks. Stei)-l)rilliant 

cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 6.5 l)y 5 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.87 carat. Cat. Nos. 

85; 82895. The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, smoky blue. Step-brilliant cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size, 5.75 by 5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.66 carat. Cat. Nos. 86; 

82895. The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Colorless, with blue streaks. Step-brilliant cut; 

elliptical girdle. Size, 6 by 4.5 by 5 mm.; weight, 0.93 carat. Cat. Nos. 87; 

82895. The Lea Collection. 



604 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1000. 

Cunuidinn, var. wippliiiv. C'(-'yIi)ii. Color, prussian l)lue. Step-brilliant cut; ellip- 
tical {girdle. Size, 7 l)y 5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.86 carat. Cat. Nos. 88; 83895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Conindum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, lemon yellow. Step-brilliant cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size, 6 by 5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.75 carat. Cat. Nos. 89; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. wipi)hire. Ceylon. Color, sky blue. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 
girdle. Size, 6.5 by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.95 carat. Cat. Nos. 90; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, prussian blue. Step-brilliant cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size, 6 by 4.5 by 3.25 mm.; weight, 0.66 carat. Cat. Nos. 91; 
82895. The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, prussian blue. Step-brilliant cut; oval 
girdle. Size, 6.5 by 5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.79 carat. Cat. Nos. 92; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 

Cornndum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale blue. Step-brilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Size, 6 by 5 liy 3 mm.; weight, 0.62 carat. Cat. Nos. 93; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Colorless. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 
Size, 6 by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.70 carat. Cat. Nos. 94; 82895. The Lea 
Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale blue. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 
girdle. Size, 6 by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.70 carat. Cat. Nos. 95; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 

Cornndum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, 5.5 by 4.5 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.64 carat. Cat. Nos. 96; 
82895. The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, light blue. Step-brilliant cut; circular 
girdle. Size, 5 by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.72 carat. Cat. Nos. 97; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, lemon yellow. Step-brilliant cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size, 6 by 5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.72 carat. Cat. Nos. 98; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Cornndum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Coloiless, with blue blotches. Step-brilliant 
cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 6 by 5 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.73 carat. Cat. Nos. 
99; 82895. The Lea Collection." 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale wine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; 
elliptical girdle. Size, 6 by 4.5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.63 carat. Cat. Nos. 100; 
82895. The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Colorless, blotched with blue. Step-brilliant 
cut; circular girdle. Size, 5 by 5 by 5 mm.; weight, 0.83 carat. Cat. Nos. 101; 
82895. The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, sky blue. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 
girdle. Size, 6 by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.87 carat. Cat. Nos. 102; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, light blue. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 
girdle. Size, 6 by 4.5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.56 carat. Cat. Nos. 103; 82895. 
The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, smoky blue. Step-brilliant cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, 5.5 by 4 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.54 carat. Cat. Nos. 104; 
82895. The Lea Collection. 

Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, violet blue. Step-brilliant cut; circular 
girdle. Size, 6 by 5 l)y 4 nnn.; weight, 0.71 carat. Cat. Nos. 105; 82895. The 
Lea Collection. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 605 

C'oc/n;r/»//(, var. sai^phire. Ceylon. Color, .smalt l)hu'. Step-brilliant ciil; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 6 by 5 Uy o mm.; weight, 0.70 earat. Cat. Noy. 10(3; .S2S95. The 

Lea Collection. 
Connidniii, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, prnssian blue. Step-brilliant cut; oval 

girdle. Size, 5.5 by 5 by 3 mm. ; weight, 0.55 carat. Cat. No.«. 107; 82895. The 

Lea Collection. 
CoruiidiDii, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale blue. Step-l)rilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 6 1)y 4 by 4.5 mm. ; weight, 0.68 carat. Cat. Xos. 108; 82895. The 

Lea Collection. 
Coru jidxm, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, bluish. Step-brilliant cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 6 by 5 by 4 mm.;' weight, 0.75 carat. Cat. Xos. 109; 82895. The Lea 

Collection. 
Cnrnndnm, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, deep blue. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 5 by 4.5 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.55 carat. Cat. Xos. 110; 82895. 

The Lea Collection. 
Co/vuK/((m, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, wine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, 5 by 4 by .'> mm.; weight, 0.45 carat. Cat. Xos. Ill; 82895. 

The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, pale green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size 4 by 4 by 8 mm.; weight, 0.39 carat. Cat. Xos. 112; 82895. The 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Colorless. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 5 by 4 by 2 mm.; weight, 0.22 carat. Cat. Xos. 113; 82895. The Lea Col- 
lection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Blue of various shades. Step-brilliant cut. 16 

small gems, less than one-half carat each. Total weight, 7.51 carats. Cat. X'os. 

114-129; 82895. The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, violet. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 8.5 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.41 carats. Cat. Xos. 130; 50274. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, deep bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 7 by 7 by 3.5 mm. ; weight, 0.84 carat. Cat. Nos. 131 ; 50274. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, deejj bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; 

elliptical girdle. Size, 6 by 5 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.64 carat. Cat. Xos. 132; 

50274. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, greenish blue. Step-brilliant cut; rec- 
tangular girdle. Size, 6 by 5 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.71 carat. Cat. Xos. 133; 

50274. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, greenish yellow. Brilliant cut; square 

girdle. Size, 6 by 6 by 4 mm. ; weight, 0.86 carat. Cat. Xos. 134; 47313. Gift 

of C. S. Bement. 
Corundum, var. eapphire. Ceylon. Color, amethyst. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 5 by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.48 carat. Cat. Xos. 135; 47312. Gift of C^ S. 

Bement. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. Ceylon. Color, blue. Step-brilliant cut. Twenty small 

gems; average size, 3 by 3 by 2 mm. Total weight, 5.10 carats. Cat. Xos. 136- 

155; 84041. 
Corundum, var. .sapphire. (Asteria. ) Ellijay, Macon County, CJeorgia. Color, 

bronze. Cabochon cut; circular girdle. Size, 14 by 7 mm.; weight, 10.42 

carats. Cat. Nos. 191; 84043. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ellijay, Macon C'ounty, Georgia. Color, 

bronze. Cabochon cut; circular girdle. Size, 10 by 5.5 nun.; weight, 4.55 

carats. Cat. Xos. 192; 84043. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ellijay, Macon County, Georgia. Color, 

bronze. Cabochon cut; elli})tical girdle. Size, 11 by 8 by 4 mm.; weight, 3.35 

carats. Cat. Xos. 193; 84043. 



()()<) REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

<'<>rniiiln)ii, var. «ii)i)Iiin'. (Asteria. ) Ceylon. Color, gray (lianrled). Caboclion 
^cut; circular girdle. 8ize, 2o l)y 10 mm.; weight, 50.50 carats. Cat. Nos. 171; 
"82898. The Lea Collection. 
C'<inn)dum, var. sapphire. (Asieria. ) Ceylon. Color, blue. Cabochon cut; circu- 
lar girdle. Size, 24 by 14 mm.; weight, ()7.10 carats. Cat. Nos. 172; 83893. 

The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sai)phire. (Asteria. ) 'Ceylon. Color, violet. Ca])ochon cut; (;ir- 

cular girdle. Size, 22 by 13 mm.; weight, 49.12 carats. Cat. Nos. 173; 82893. 

The Lea t'ollection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. (Asteria. ) Ceylon. Color, light blue. Cabochon cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 24 by 8 mm.; weight, 38.79 carats. Cat. Nos. 174; 82893. 

The Lea Collection. 
Cr/mn*/r??, var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ceylon. Color, sky blue. Cabochon cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 18 by 10 mm. ; weight, 27.61 carats. Cat. Nos. 175; 82893. 

The Lea Collection. 
Conmrfwm, var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ceylon. Color, gray. Cabochon cut; circu- 
lar girdle. Size, 14 liy 10 mm.; weight, 14.93 carats. Cat. Nos. 176; 82893. 

The Lea Collection. 
Corwndw/i, var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ceylon. Color, bluish gray. Cabochon cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.30 carats. Cat. Nos. 177; 82893. 

The Lea Collection. 
CorimduTO, var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ceylon. Color, milk white. Cabochon cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 11 by 6.5 mm.; weight, 6.23 carats. Cat. Nos. 178; 82893. 

The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, VSLV. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ceylon. Color, sky blue. Cabochf)n cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 11 by 8 mm.; weight, 7.34 carats. Cat. Nos. 179; 82893. 

The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ceylon. Color, light blue. Cabochon cut; 

elliptical girdle. Size, 11 by 9 by 6 mm.; weight, 5.35 carats. Cat. Nos. 180; 

82893. The Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ceylon. Color, dark blue. Cabochon cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 9 by 6 mm.; weight, 4 carats. Cat. Nos. 181; 82893. The 

Lea Collection. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ceylon. Color, lead gray. Cabochon cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 8 by 7 by 7 mm.; weight, 2.24 carats. Cat. Nos. 182; 

82893. The Lea Collection. 
Cor-andwm, var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ceylon. Color, milk white. Cabochon cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 9 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.94 carats. Cat. Nos. 183; 82893. 

The Lea Collection. 
Corundi(TO, var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ceylon. Color, bluish gray. Cabochon cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 6 by 6 mm.; weight, 1.62 carats. Cat. Nos. 184; 82893. 

The Lea Collection. 
OonmfZwj/i, var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ceylon. Color, milky white. Cabochon cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 11 by 9.5 mm.; weight, 10 carats. Cat. Nos. 185; 50292. 
Corundum, var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ceylon. Color, light violet. Cabochon cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 10 by 7 mm.; weight, 4.86 carats. Cat. Nos. 186; 50292. 
Coru?id«7», var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ceylon. Color, bluish gray. Cabochon cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 9 by 7 mm.; weight, 4.37 carats. Cat. Nos. 187; 50292. 
Oorunrfum, var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ceylon. Color, bluish white. Cabochon cut. 

Size, 9 by 9 by 6 mm. ; weight, 4.74 carats. Cat. Nos. 188; 82892. The Lea Col- 
lection. 
Coran(/n»;, var. sapphire. (Asteria.) Ceylon. Color, bluish white. Cabochon cut. 

Size, 9 by 9 by 6 mm. ; weight, 4.74 carats. Cat. Nos. 188; 82892. The Lea Col- 
lection. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 6^7 

r'o>v/>(f/(o//, vai. sai)[)]iit\'. (Astcria.) Cfvlon. Color, ^ray. Cahoclioii cut. Size, 

5 l)y 5 l)y :; iimi.; wi'iirht, 0.97 carat, ("at. No!<. 1S9; SliS'li'. The Li-a Collec- 
tion. 
C'orH?)f?»>», var. sapphire. (Asteria. ) Ceylon. Color, grayish blue. Cabot^hon cut. 

Size, 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.23 carats. Cat. Nos. 190; S4044. The Lea tV.llec- 

tion. 
CrocidoUti'. Griqua Land, South Africa. Color, brown. Cabochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 44 by 33 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. b-944; 47583. Gift of Geo. F. Kunz. 
Croridolite. Griqua Land, South Africa. Color, brown. Cabochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 24 by 17 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. b-945-946; 82806. The Lea Collec- 
tion. 
Croridolite. Griqua Land, South Africa. Color, brown. Caljochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 12 by 6 by 4 mm. Cat. Nos. b-947; 47345. 
Croridolitf. Griqua Land, South Africa. Twelve beads and other cut pieces. Cat. 

Nos. l)-948-959; 84242. 
Croeidolite. Griqua Land, South Africa. Color, brown. Size, 5.5 cm. Cat. Nos. 

b-960; 83530. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Croeidolite. Griqua Land, Orange River, South Africa. Cut slab. Cat. Nos. b-961; 

81433. 
Croeidolite. Griqua Land, South Africa. Three slaljs. Cat. Nos. b-962-964; 51733. 
Croeidolite. Griqua Land, South Africa. Color, dark bluish black. A rectangular 

block. Cat. Nos. l>-965; 84243. 
Croeidolite. Griqua Land, South Africa. Cut into dish. Cat. Nos. b-960; 84243. 
Croeidolite. Griqua Land, South Africa. Color, brown. A thin slab. Cat. Nos. 

b-967; 84243. 
Croeidolite. Eland Island. South Africa. Color, dark gray. A slal). Cat. Nos. 

b-968; 45047. 
Cyanite. Spruce Pine, Mitchell County, North Carolina. Color, blue. Step-brilliant 

cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 12 by 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 3.63 carats. Cat. Nos. 

a-564; 47860. Gift of D. A. Bowman. 
Cyanite. Russia. Color, blue. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 7 by 4 

by 2 mm.; weight, 0.56 carat. Cat. Nos. a-565; 84103. 
Demanloid, see Garnet. 
Diamond. Cabin Fork Creek, near Montpelier, Kentucky. Color, yellow. Natural 

faces of crystal polished. Size, 8 by 4 by 3 mm. ; weight, 0.75 carats. Cat. Nos. 

465; 83723. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Diamond. South Africa. Colorless. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 6 V)y 5 

by 4 mm.; w^eight, 0.90 carat. Cat. Nop. 466; 84045. 
Diamond. South Africa. Colorless. Partly cut. Size, 5 by 5 l)y 5 mm. ; weight, 

1.63 carats. Cat. Nos. 467; 84046. 
Diamond. South Africa. Six small, variously colored stones: 1 pink, 1 green, 1 

brown, 1 milk white, 1 yellow, 1 yellow green. Brilliant cut. Total weight, 0.95 

carat. Cat. Nos. 468-473; 82902. The Lea Collection. 
Diamond. India. Colorless, very clear. Brilliant cut. 122 small stones. Total 

weight, 18.32 carats. Cat. Nos. 474-595; 47351. Gift of the Imaun of Muscat. 
Diopside, see Pyroxene. 
Emerald, see Beryl. 
Epidote. Tyrol. Color, dark l)rown. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

14 by 8 by 3 mm. ; weight, 3.82 carats. Cat. Nos. a-579; 84108. 
Epidote. Tyrol. Color, dark green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

8 by 4.5 by 2 mm.; weight, 0.72 carat. Cat. Nos. a-580; 50324. 
Emmite, see Garnet. 
Euelase. Brazil. Color, pale green. Step-brilliant cut; stjuare girdle. Size, 7 by 

7 by 4 nun.; weight, 1.03 carats. Cat. Nos. 832; 84070. 



008 REPORT OF NATIONAL MrSKUM, 1900. 

Flint, see (Quartz. 

Fluorite. Amelia t'ourt-IIouye, \'irf;inia. Color, .smoky brown. Step-brilliant cut; 

rectangular girdle. Size, 11 by 9 by 7 mm.; weiglit, 4.92 carats. Cat. Nos. 

a-607; 50380. 
Fluorite. England. Two trays. Average size, 8.6 cm. diameter. Cat. Nos. b-896- 

897; 46964. . 
Fluorite. England. C^olor, dark purple. Cuj) on black marble base. Cat. Nos. 

b-898; 84235. 
Fossil Coral, see Carbonate of lime. 
Gadolinite. Near Burnett, Llano County, Texas. Color, black; opaque. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size 13 by 8 mm.; weight, 8.35 carats. Cat. Nos. a-587; 

83743. The Lea Collection; gift of L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Green Creek, Delaware County, Pennsylvania. Color, dark 

red. Cabochon cut; circular girdle. Size, 9 by 5 mm.; weight, 4.24 carats. 

Cat. Nos. a-25; 50310. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Green Creek, Delaware County, Pennsylvania. Color, dark 

cherry red. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 12 by 8 by 4 mm.; weight, 

3.56 carats. Cat. Nos. a-26; 50310. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, cherry red. Cabo- 
chon cut; pear shaped. Size, 14 by 10 l)y 6 mm.; weight, 5.53 carats. Cat. 

Nos. a-27; 82881. The Lea Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, brownish red. 

Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 8.5 by 7 by 4 mm. ; weight, 2. 10 carats. Cat. 

Nos. a-28; 82881. The Lea Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. North Carolina. Color, light violet. Step-brilliant cut; 

rectangular girdle. Size, 7.5 by 6 l)y 4 mm. ; weight, 1.54 carats. Cat. Nos. a-29; 

50102. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Fort Defiance, Arizona. Color, dark violet red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 10 by 5 mm.; weight, 3 30 carats. Cat. Nos. a-30; 

50109. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Fort Defiance, Arizona. Color, dark violet red. Step- 

l)rilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 8 by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.63 carats. 

Cat. Nos. a-31 ; 50277. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Fort Defiance, Arizona. Color, deep violet red. Brilliant 

cut; 2 circular, 1 rectangular girdle. Size, 6 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.62 carats. 

Cat. Nos. a-32-34; 84084. 
Garnet, var. almandite. New Mexico. Color, violet reil. Brilliant cut. Size, 8 by 

8by 4to5by 5by4mm. Sevengems; total weight, 6.70 carats. Cat. Nos. a-35-41 ; 

82878. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Bohemia. Color, violet red. Cabochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 24 by 13 by 7 mm.; weight, 22.66 carats. Cat. Nos. 968; 82877. 

The Lea Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Bohemia. Color, violet red. Cabochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 25 by 13 by 7 mm.; weight, 23.82 carats. Cat. Nos. 969; 82877. 

The Lea Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Bohemia. tJolor, violet red. Cabochon cut; pear-shaped 

girdle. Size, 23 by 13 by 7 mm.; 20.85 carats. Cat. Nos. 970; 82877. The Lea 

Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Bohemia. Color, violet red. Cabochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 18 by 12 by 6.5 mm.; weight, 14.92 carats. Cat. Nos. 971; 82877. 

The Lea Collection. 
Garnf^, var. almandite. Bohemia, ('olor, brownish red. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 15 by 13 l)y 6 mm.; weight <S.90 carats. Cat. Nos. 972; 82877. The Lea 

Collection. 



CATALOGUE OF GYMfi. ()09 

Garmi, var. aiinanditt'. Uoheiiiia. Color, viok't rcii. Cabochon c-ut; ellij>tical 

^'irdle. Size, 15 by \'l by 6 nun.; weight, 10.53 carat;^. Cat. Xos. 973; S2S77. 

The Lea Collection, 
(ra/'n^f, var. almandite. Bohemia. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 13 by 5mm. ; weight, 5.94carats. Cat. Xos. 974; 82877. TheLeaCollec-tion. 
Garnet, var. almandite. BohAiia. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; square girdle. 

Size, 11 by 7 mm. ; weight, 6.30 carats. Cat. Xos. 975; 82877. The Lea Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Bohemia. Color, violet red. Cabochon cut; ellijitical 

girdle. Size, 12 ])y 9 by (> mm. ; weight, 6..36 carats. Cat. Xos. 976; 82877. The 

Lea Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Bohemia. Color, brownish red. ^tep-brilliant cut; pear- 
shaped girdle. Size, 13 by 10 by 4 mm.; weight, 3.26 carats. Cat. Xos. 977; 

82877. The Lea Collection. 
GcYrtj^/, var. almandite. Bohemia. Color, violet red. Step-brilliant cut; oval girdle. 

Size, 10 by 7.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.67 carats. Cat. Xos. 978; 82877. The Lea 

Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Bohemia. Color, violet red. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 11 by 8.5 l)y 4 mm.; weight, 2.55 carats. Cat. Xos. 979; 82877. 

The Lea Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Bohemia. Color, brownish red. Step cut; square girdle. 

Size, 7 by 7 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.59 carats. Cat. Xos. 980; 82877. The Lea 

Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Bohemia. Color, violet red. Cabochon cut. Thirteen 

gems. Size, 12 by 10 by 3 to 6 by 5 by 2.5 mm. ; total weight, 22.52 carats. Cat. 

Xos. 981-993; 82877. The Lea Collection. 
6'orne<, var. almandite. Tyrol. Color, brownish red. Cabochon cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 11 by 5 mm.; weight, 4.28 carats. Cat. Xos. 994; 84083. 
G'arnff, var. almandite. Tyrol. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; pear-shaped girdle. 

Size, 15 by 8 by 4 mm.; weight, 3.80 carats. Cat. Xos. 995; 84083. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Tyrol. Color, brownish red. Rose cut. Four gems, average 

size, 6 by 5 by 3 mm.; total weight, 3.94 carats. Cat. Xos. 996-999; 84083. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 31 by 27 by 9 mm. ; weight, 56.06 carats. Cat. Xos. 833; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, browiiKsh red. Rose cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 20 by 8 mm.; weight, 23.74 carats. Cat. Xos. 834; 50316. 
rr'«r?i('/, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 19 by 17 by 10 mm.; weight, 23.40 carats. Cat. Nos. 835; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 21 by_17 by 7 mm.; weight, 14.15 carats. Cat. Xos. 836; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 10 by 17 by 6 mm.; weight, 11.75 carat?. Cat. Xos. 837; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 18 by 17 by 7 mm.; weight, 19.34 carats. Cat. Xos. 838; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 18 by 15 by 6 mm.; weight, 13.29 carats. Cat. Xos. 839; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 15 by 13 by 7 mm.; weight, 12.50 carats. Cat. Xos. 840; 50316. 
Garnet, var. ahnandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 15 by 7 mm.; weight, 14.03 carats. Cat. Xos. 841; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 16 by 14 by 7 mm.; weight, 10.69 carats. Cat. Nos. 842; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 15 by 7 ram.; weight, 8.94 carats. Cat. Nos. 843; 50316. 



filO REPORT OF NATIONAL MUf^ET'M, 1000. 

(i)inn'l, var. aliiianditc. Imlia. Color, browiii.sli red. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, ir>.o by 14 l)y 5 mm.; weight, 9.63 carats. Cat. Nos. 844; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Rose cut. Size, 15 by 14 by 

7 mm.; weight 12.14 carats. Cat. Nos. 845; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; heart girdle. 

Size, 17 by 12 by 5 mm.; weight, 8.92 carats. CM. Nos. 846; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 15 by 13 by 6 mm.; weight, 9.84 carats. Cat. Nos. 847; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Rose cut; oval girdle. Size, 14 

by 13 by 5 mm.; weight, 9.47 carats. Cat. Nos. 848; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 13 by 4.5 mm.; weight, 5.38 carats. Cat Nos. 849; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 12 by 4 mm.; weight, 4.84 carats. Cat. Nos. 850; 50316. 
Gurnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 12 by 4 nun.; weight, 4.39 carats. Cat. Nos. 851; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 11 by 3 mm.; weight, 3.13 carats. Cat. Nos. 852; 50316. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 14 by 13 by 6 mm.; weight, 8.82 carats. Cat. Nos. 853; 50313. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose; heart-shaped girdle. 

Size, 16 by 13 by 5 mm.; weight, 9.14 carats. Cat. Nos. 854; 50313. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 13 by 12 by 8 mm.; weight, 10.77 carats. Cat. Nos. 855; 50313. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 11 by 5.5 mm.; weight, 6.30 carats. Cat. Nos. 856; 50313. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 11 by 9 by 3 mm.; weight, 2.90 carats. Cat. Nos. 857; 50313. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 12 by 9 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 3.11 carats. Cat. Nos. 858; 50313. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, deep red. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 13 by 10 by 5 mm.; weight, 5.22 carats. Cat. Nos. 859; 50312. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, yiolet red. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 12 by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.92"carats. Cat. Nos. 860; 50312. 
(7wnf?, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

11 by 8.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.57 carats. Cat. Nos. 861; 50312. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Step cut; square girdle. Size, 

9 by 9 by 4 mm. ; weight, 2.66 carats. Cat. Nos. 862; 50312. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Step cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

10.5 by 9 by 4.5 mm. Cat. Nos. 863; 50312. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, n by 8 by 3 nnii.; weight, 2.25 carats. Cat. Nos. 864; 50312. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 9 by 8 by 4 n)m.; weight, 3 carats. Cat. Nos. 865; 50312. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 10 by 8 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 2.41 carats. Cat. Nos. 866; 50312. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 10 by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.40 carats. Cat. Nos. 867: 50312. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 10 by 8 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.02 carats. Cat. Nos. 868; 50312. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 9 by 7.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.65 carats. Cat. Nos. 869; 50312. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 8 l)y 6.5 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.42 carats. Cat. Nos. 870; 50312. 



CATALOOUK OF GEMS. 611 

Garnet, var. aliiiautlite. India. Color, violet red. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 7.5 by 6.5 by 2.5 mm.; weight, 1.24 carats. Cat. Nos. 871; 50312. 
Ganiet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 8 by 7 by 3 mm.; weight 1.30 carats. Cat. Nos. 872; 50312. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Stej) cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 8 by 7 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.20 carats. Cat. Nos. 873; 50312. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 8 by 6 by 3 nun.; weight, 1.18 carats. Cat. Nos. 874; 50312. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 8 by 6 by 3 nnn.; weight 1.33 carats. Cat. Nos. 875; 50312. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 8 by (3 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.21 carats. Cat. Nos. 876; 50312. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 7.5 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.16 carats. Cat. Nos. 877; 50312. 
, (?«r«d, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Rose cut; elliiitical girdle. Size, 

18 by 15 l)y 5 nun.; weight, 6.66 carats. Cat. Nos. 878; 48486. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Half-rose cut; pear-shaped 

girdle. Size, 21 by 11 by 5 mm.; weight, 8.10 carats. Cat. Nos. 879; 48486. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Half-rose cut; pear-shaped 

girdle. Size, 20 by 10 by 5 mm.; weight, 6.94 carats. Cat. Nos. 880; 48486. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 14 by 11 by 4 mm.; weight, 4.46 carats. Cat. Nos. 881; 48486. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, brownish red. Rose cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 13 by 5 mm.; weight, 4.65 carats. Cat. Nos. 882; 48486. 
Garnet, var. almandite. India. Color, violet red. Step-brilliant cut; pear-shaped 

girdles. Thirty-four gems, average size 10 by 8 by 2.5 mm.; total weight, 40 

carats. Cat. Nos. 883-916; 50311. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Madras, India. Color, violet red. Cabochon cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size, 19 by 11 by 9 mm. ; weight, 20.04 carats. Cat. Nos. 917; 50318. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Madras, India. Color, violet red. Cabochon cut; ellip- 
soidal girdle. Size, 23 by 9 by 5.5 mm.; weight, 10.75 carats. Cat. Nos. 918; 

50318. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Ceylon. Color, violet red. Cabochon cut. Size, 16 by 10 

by 7 mm.; weight, 9.78 carats. Cat. Nos. 919; 51181. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Ceylon. Color, violet red. Cabochon cut. Size, 17 by 9 

by 6 mm.; weight, 10.15 carats. Cat. Nos. 920; 51181. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Ceylon. Color, violet red. Cabochon cut; oval girdle. 

Size, 15 by 9 by 6 mm.; weight, 8.74 carats. Cat. Nos. 921; 51181. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Ceylon. Color, violet red. Cabochon cut. Size, 16.5 by 

8 by 6 mm.; weight, 7.81 carats. Cat. Nos. 922; 51181. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Ceylon. Color, violet red. Twelve stones variously cut. 

Sizes, 9 by 7 by 2 to 5 by 5 by 2.5 mm.; total weight, 11.23 carats. Cat. Nos. 

923-934; 82882. 
Garnet, var. almandite. China. Color, deep red. Cabochon cut; elliiitical girdle. 

Size, 23 by 15 by 8 nmi.; weight, 18.94 carats. Cat. Nos. a-1; 46008. Gift of 

Dr. J. L. Holmes. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Japan. Color, violet red. Rose and step-brilliant cut. 

Five gems; average size, 10 by 5 by 3 mm.; total weight, 9.20 carats. Cat. Nos. 

a-2-6; 50317. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Japan. Color, violet red. Eighteen variously cut gems; 

average size, 8 by 6 by 4 mm.; total weight, 28.61 carats. Cat. Nos. a-7-24; 

82880. The Lea Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Color, violet red. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

18 by 13 by 6 mm.; weight, 12.92 carats. Cat. Nos. 935; 82876. The Lea Col- 
lection. 



612 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Garni't, var. alinamlito. Color, violet red. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 20 by 8 by 5 iniii.; weight, 5.83 carats. Cat. Nop. 936; 82876. The Lea 

Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Color, violet red. Brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 17 

by 7 by 3.5 mm. ; weight, 2.54 carats. Cat. Nos. 937; 82876. The Lea Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Color, brownish red. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 12 by 10 by 3 mm.; weight, 4.36 carats. Cat. Nos. 938; 82876. The Lea 

Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Color, brownish red. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

11 by 8 by 2.5 mm.; weight, 2.03 carats. Cat. Nos. 939; 82876. The Lea Col- 
lection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Color, violet red. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 9 by 7 by 3.3 mm.; weight, 1.57 carats. Cat. Nos. 940; 82876. The Lea 

Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Color, violet red. Step-l)rilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 9 by 7 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 1.74 carats. Cat. Nos. 941; 82876. The Lea 

Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Color, violet red. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 8 by 6.5 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.22 carats. Cat. Nos. 942; 82876. The Lea 

Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Color, brownish red. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 6.5 by 6 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 1.15 carats. Cat. Nos. 943; 82876. 

The Lea Collection. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Color, violet red. Twenty-one gems variously cut. Various 

sizes; total v/eight, 15.07 carats. Cat. Nos. 944-964; 82876. The Lea Collec- 
tion. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Color, violet red. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 12 by 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 3.58 carats. Cat. Nos. 965; 50273. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Color, violet red. Cabochon cut; circular girdle. Size, 8 

by 3 mm.; weight, 1.64 carats. Cat. Nos. 966; 50273. 
Garnet, var. almandite. Color, violet red. Cabochon cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 

by 2 mm.; weight, 1.16 carats. Cat. Nos. 967; 50273. 
Garnet, var. pyrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, violet red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 10 by 5 mm.; weight, 3 carats. Cat. Nos. a-100; 

83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. pyrope. Ma,con County, North Carolina. Color, violet red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.04 carats. Cat. Nos. a-101; 

83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. pyrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, blood red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 7.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.41 carats. Cat. Nos. a-102; 

83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. pyrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, violet red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 6.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.30 carats. Cat. Nos. a-103; 

83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. pyrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, violet red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.31 carats. Cat. Nos. a-104; 

83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. pyrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, blood red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.44 carats. Cat. Nos. a-105; 

83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. pyrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, blood red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 by 4.5 mm.; weight, 1.40 carats. Cat. Nos. a-106; 

83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 



rATAL()(;rK of gems, 013 

Cinrnet, var. pyrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, violet red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.06 carats. Cat. Nos. a-107; 

83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
(Utvnet, var. ])yrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, brownish red. Bril- 
liant cut; circular girdle. Size, 6.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.02 carats. Cat. Nos. 

a-108; 83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
(iarnct, var. pyrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, violet red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.04 carats. Cat. Nos. a-109; 

83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. pyrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, violet red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.03 carats. Cat. Nos. a-110; 

83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. jiyrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, violet red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.96 carat. Cat. Nos. 

a-111; 83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. pyrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, violet red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 6 by 4 mm.: weight, 0.90 carat. Cat. Nos. a-112; 

83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. pyrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, violet red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 6 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.81 carat. Cat. Nos. a-113; 

83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. pyrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, blood red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 6 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.70 carat. Cat. Nos. a-114; 

83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. pyrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, deep violet red. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.72 carat. Cat. Nos. 

a-115; 83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. pyrope. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, brownish red. Bril- 
liant cut; circular girdle. Size, 5 by 3.5 mm. ; weight, 0.55 carat. Cat. Nos. 

a-116; 83733. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. pj^rope. Bilin, Bohemia. Color, blood red. Half rose cut. 51 small 

gems; average size, 4 by 4 by 4 mm.; total weight, 12.26 carats. Cat. Nos. 

a-42-92; 50315. 
Garnet, var. pyrope. Bohemia. Necklace of blood-red garnets; 103 rose cut and 2 

cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. a-93; 83534. The Lea Collection. 
Garnet, var. pyrope. Cape Colony, Africa. Six gems. Color, deep red. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Average size, 5 by 3 mm.; total weight, 2.29 carats. Cat. 

Nos. a-94-99; 84085. 
Garnet, var. rhodolite. North Carolina. Color, l)etween almandine and blood red. 

Step-brilliant cut. Two gems; total weight, 3.05 carats. Cat. Nos. c-460; 84479. 

The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. spessartite. Amelia Court-House, Virginia. Color, bright cinnamon. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 21 by 13 mm.; weight, 39.13 carats.- Cat. 

Nos. a-147; 51985. 
Garnet, var. spessartite. Amelia Court-House, Virginia. Color, bright cinnamon. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 11.5 by 8 mm.; weight, 7.26 carats. Cat. 

Nos. a-148; 51985. 
G<irnet, var. spessartite. Amelia Court-House, Virginia. Color, bright cinnamon. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 8 by 5.5 mm.; weight, 2.38 carats. Cat. Nos. 

a- 149; 51985. 
Garnet, var. spessartite. Amelia Court-House, Virginia. Color, bright cinnamon. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 8 by 6 mm.; weight, 2.60 carats. Cat. Nos. 

a-150; 51985. 



614 KKPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Garnet, var. spessartite. Amelia Court-House, Virginia. Color, bright cinnamon. 

Brilliant c-nt; circular girdle. Size, 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.10 carats. Cat. Nos. 

a-151; 51985. 
Garnet, var. spessartite. Amelia Court-House, Virginia. Color, bright cinnamon. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 14 by 8 mm.; weight, 11.51 carats. Cat. 
• Nos. a-152; 5026(5. 
Garnet, var. spes.sartite. Amelia Court-House, Virginia. Color, bright cinnamon. 

Step-l)rilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 12 by 10 by 7 mm.; weight, 8.89 

carats. Cat. Nos. a-158; 51572. (4ift of Ira K. Allen. 
Garnet, var. spessartite. Amelia Court-House, Virginia. Color, bright cinnamon. 

Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 12 ))y 11 by 8 mm.; weight, 9.32 

carats. Cat. Nos. a-154; 51572. Gift of Ira K. Allen. 
Garnet, var. spessartite. Amelia Court-House, Virginia. Color, bright cinnamon. 

Cabochon cut; circular girdle. Size, 11 by 5.5 mm.; weight, 5.65 carats. Cat. 

Nos. a-155; 83348. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Garnet, var. essonite. Ceylon. Color, light brownish red or cinnamon brown. 

Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 14 by 11 by 6 nun.; weight, 5.54 

carats. Cat. Nos. a-117; 50319. 
Garnet, \Rr. essonite. Ceylon. Color, cinnamon brown. Step-Jjrilliant cut; square 

girdle. Size, 12 V)y 11 by 5 mm.; weight, 5.57 carats. Cat. Nos. a-118; 50319. 
Garnet, var. essonite. Ceylon. Color, cinnamon brown. Steji-brilliant cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size, 30 by 24 by 12 mm.; w^eight, 62.60 carats. Cat. Nos. a-119; 

82884. The Lea Collection. 
Garnet, var. essonite. Ceylon. Color, cinnamon. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 11 by 10 by 5.5 mm. ; weight, 3.80 carats. Cat. Nos. a-120; 82884. The Lea 

Collection. 
Garnet, var. e.ssonite. Ceylon. Color, cinnamon brown. Step-lirilliant cut; rec- 
tangular girdle. Size, 10 by 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 3.62 carats. Cat. Nos. a-121; 

82884. The Lea Collection. 
Crm'«e<, var. essonite. Ceylon. Color, cinnamon. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. 

Size, 6 by 6 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.82 carat. Cat. Nos. a-122; 82844. The Lea 

Collection. 
Garnet, var. essonite. Ceylon. Color, cinnamon. Brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 7 by 6 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.80 carat. Cat. Nos. a-123; 82884. The Lea 

Collection. 
Garnet, var. essonite. Ceylon. Color, cinnamon. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical gir- 
dle. Size, 6.5 by 5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.80 carat. Cat. Nos. a-124; 82844. The 

Lea Collection. 
Garnet, var. essonite. Ceylon. Color, cinnamon. Step-lirilliant cut. Eleven 

small gems; total weight, 3.53 carats. Cat. Nos. a-125-135; 82844. The Lea 

Collection. 
Garnet, var. essonite. Locality unknown. Color, cinnamon. Step-brilliant cut; 

elliptical girdle. Size, 15 by 10 by 5 nnn.; weight, 4.90 carats. Cat. Nos. a-136; 

84086. 
Garnet, var. grossularite. Hull, Canada. Color, pale yellow. Brilliant i-ut; square 

girdle. Size, 7 by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.21 carats. Cat. Nos. a-137; 50314. 
Garnet, var. grossularite. Hull, Canada. Color, pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut; 

rectangular girdle. Size, 6 by 5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.59 carat. Cat. Nos. a-138; 

50314. 
Garnet, var. grossularite. Xalostoc, ]\Iorelos, Mexico. Color, deep rose. Step- 
brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 7 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.17 carats. 

Cat. Nos. a-139; 50108. 
Garnet, var. grossularite. Xalostoc, Morelos, Mexico. Color, deep rose. Step- 
brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.86 carat. Cat. Nos. 

U-140; 50108, 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 615 

Garnet, \nr. <ltMiiaiitoi(l. Xizhni-TagiLsk, Uralj^. Color, c;rass given. Brilliant cnt; 

square girdle. Size, 9 by 8.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.20 airats. Cat. Nos. a-141; 

50309. 
Garnet, var. demantoid. Xizhni-Tagilsk, Urals. Color, brownish green. Brilliant 

cut; circular girdle. Size, 8.5 by 6 mm.; weight, 3.03 carats. Cat. Xos. a-142; 

50309. 
Garnet, var. demantoid. Xizhni-Tagilsk, Urals. Color, grass green. Step-brilliant 

cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 7 })y 5.5 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.99 carat. Cat. 

Nos. a-143; 84087. 
Gar/u'/, var. demantoid. Xizhni-Tagilsk, Urals. Color, grass green. Brilliant cut; 

square girdle. Size, 6 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.98 carats. Cat. Xos. a-144; 

84087. 
Garnet, var. demantoid. Xizhni-Tagilsk, Urals. Color, grass green. Brilliant cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 6.5 by 4 mm. ; weight, 1.03 carats. Cat. Xos. a-145; 84087. 
Garnet, var. demantoid. Xizhni-Tagilsk, Urals. Color, light green. Brilliant cut; 

square girdle. Size, 5 by 5 by 2.5 mm.; weight, 0.33 carats. Cat. Xos. a-146; 

84087. 
Garnet rock. Xalostoc, Morelos, ^Mexico. Slab of garnet, with vesuvianite in calcite. 

Cat. Nos. b-853; 51732. 
Gold. California. Gold nugget mounted as a l>reastpin. Cat. Xos. a-(j08; 83529. 

The Lea Collection. 
Graphic granite. Hitteroe, Xorway. Tabular piece of pegmatite mounted in silver 

as breastpin. Cabochon cut. Cat. Xos. a-609; 47392. Gift of Mrs. Spencer F. 

Baird. 
Graphic granite. Siberia. Ashtray. Cat. Nos. b-836; 50395. 
Grossularite, see Garnet. 
Gypmm, var. satinspar. Puebla, ^Mexico. Color, white. Large rectangular block. 

Cat. Nos. l>-873; 47662. Gift of Mexican Geographical Expl. Commission. 
Gypsum, var. satinspar. Bridgeford, P^ngland. Color, white. Two necklaces, each 

containing 63 beads. Cat. Nos. a-611-612; 84167. 
Gypsum, var. satinspar. Bridgeford, England. Egg-shaped (u-nament of satinspar. 

Size, 9.5 cm. long. Cat. Nos. b-874; 84230. 
Gypsum, var. satinspar. England. Color, white. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 29 by 18 by 12 mm. Cat. Nos. a-610; 51444. 
Hematite. England. Color, black. Tabular cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 18 by 15 

by 3 nnn. Cat. Nos. a-614-615; 48475. 
Hematite. England. Color, black. Tabular cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 16 by 11 

by 3 mm. Cat. Nos. a-616; 84168. 
Hematite. England. Color, black. Necklace of 49 beads, largest 12 mm., smallest 

8 mm. diam. Cat. Nos. a-617; 50254. 
Huntilite in calcite. Silver Islet, Lake Superior. Rectangular disks. Size, 20 by 15 

by 4 mm. Cat. Nos. a-623-624; 47845. 
Hyperslhene. Fredericksbarn, X^orway. Color, blackish gray. Slab. Cat. Nos. b-852; 

51940. 
Hypersthene. Norway. Color, dark bronze. . Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

22 by 16 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. c-422. 
luUte. Bodenmais, Bavaria. Color, blue; dichroic. Table cut. Size, 11 by 9 by 6 

mm.; weight, 7.27 carats. Cat. Xos. a-586; 84111. 
lolite. Ceylon. Color, light blue. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 14 

by 12 by 4 mm.; weight, 6.60 carats. Cat. Xos. a-584; 82819. The Lea Collec- 
tion. 
lolite. Ceylon. Color, blue. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 9 ])y 7.5 by 3 mm.; 

weight, 1.34 carats. Cat. Nos. a-585; 84110. 
Jade. Alaska. Color, olive green. Two cabrets, 9 and 5 cm. long, respectively. 

Cat. Nos. a-680-681; 45937. 
NAT MUS 1900 4'2 



616 



REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, I'JOO. 



Disk with flower. Size, 5J cm. diameter. C?t. Nos. 



Jaac. China. Color, greenish 

a-667; 51448. 
Jade. China. Color, greenish. Vase. Size, 22^ cm. long. 
Jade. China. Color, greenish gray. A carved ornament. 

Cat. Nos. a-669; 84176. 
Jade. China. Color, greenish gray. 

Nos. a-670; 84177. 
Jade. China. Color, greenish gray. 
Color, light greenish. 



Cat. Nos. a-668; 45019. 
Size, hh cm. in diameter. 



A carved ornament. Size, 10 by 2 cm. Cat. 



Jade. China. 
Jade. China. 

84228. 
Jade. China. 
Jade. Japan. 



A carved ornament. 
A carved ornament. 



Cat. Nos. a-671; 84178. 
Cat. Nos. a-672; 84179. 



Color, light green. Carved inkstand on base of teak. Cat. Nos. b-87] ; 



Small carved vase on base of teak. Cat. Nos. b-872; 84229. 

Color, light green. Ring. Size, 7 cm. diameter outside; 5.2 inside. 

Cat. Nos. a-673; 84180. 
Jade. New Zealand. Color, dark green. Three cameos; rectangular. Size, 15 by 12 

mm. Cat. Nos. a-674-676; 51129. 
Jade. New Zealand. Color, green. Slab. Cat. Nos. b-870; 50392. 
Jade. New Zealand. Color, dark green. A watch charm, 28 by 19 by 6 mm., and 

two pendants, 6.4 and 5.5 cm. long. Cat. Nos. a-677-679; 50392. 
Jasper, see Quartz. 
Jet. Whitby, England. 
Jet. Whitby, England. 
Labradorite. Labrador. 



Slab. Cat. Nos. b-856; 84225. 
Cat. Nos. lj-857; 50391. 
Cat. Nos. b-843-844; 81285. 
Two slabs; polished. Cat. Nos. b-845-846; 45011. 
Medallion. Size, 10.5 by 7.5 cm. Cat. Nos. b-847; 47852. 
Polished slab. Cat. Nos. b-848; 51962. 
Pyramidal-shaped ornament, 10 cm. high. Cat. Nos. 

Two knob-shaped pieces. Cat. Nos. 

Cabochon cut; circular girdle. Size, 



C\\t. 



Color, black. 
Color, black. 
Polished slab. 
Labradorite. Labrador. 
Labradorite. Labrador. 
Labradorite. Labrador. 
Labradorite. liabrador. 

b-849; 84223. 
Labradorite. Labrador. Color, dark gray. 
c-253-254; 82852. The Lea Collection. 
Labradorite. Labrador. Color, dark gray. 

20 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. c-255; 82852. The Lea C^iUection. 
Labradorite. Labrador. Color, dark gray. Circular disk. Size, 22 by 4 mm. 

Nos. c-256; 46830. 
Labradorite. Labrador. Color, dark gray. Cabochon, intaglio; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 25 by 17 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. c-257; 50071. 
lAihradoritc. Labrador. Color, dark gray. Cabochon cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 
Cat. Nos. c-258;" 50256. 
Color, dark gray. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 
Cat. Nos. c-259; 84164. 

Color, dark gray. A watch charm. Size, 12 mm. diam- 
eter. Cat. Nos. c-260; 84164. 
Labradorite. Labrador. Color, grayish brown. Double Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. 

c-261; 14346. 
Lapis lazuli. Andes Mountains, Chile. Color, blue. Slab. Cat. Nos. b-875; 84231. 
Lapis lazuli. Andes Mountains, C'hile. Color, blue. Slab. Cat. Nos. b-878; 44474. 
Lapis lazuli. Persia. Color, prussian blue. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

30 by 27 by (5 nun. Cat. Nos. a-622; 50432. 
Lapis lazuli. Persia. Color, dark blue. Slab. Cat. Nos. b-877; 50432. 
Lapis lazuli. Color, blue. Size, 8 cm. Cat. Nos. b-876; 84232. 
Lepidolite. Rosena, Moravia. Color, purplish red. An ash tray. Size, 9 by 4.7 by 

1.3 cm. Cat. Nos. b-842; 51446. 
Limestone, see Carbonate of lime. 
Malachite. Morenci, Arizona. Color, green. Cat. Nos. b-883; 50268. 



24 by 15 by 5 mm. 

Labradorite. Labrador. 
28 by 13 by 6 mm. 
Labradorite. Labrador. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 6l7 

Malachite. Morenci, Arizona. Small geode. Cat. Noy. l>-884; 50113. 

Malachite. Morenci, Arizona. Color, green. Cube, with truncated edges. Size, 5 

cm. diameter. Cat. Nos. b-88o; 50267. 
Malachite. Morenci, Arizona. Color, dark green. Slab. Cat. Nos. I1-886; 82488. 
Malachite. Morenci, Arizona. Polished to show l)anded structure. Cat. Xos. b-887; 

50112. 
Malachite. Morenci, Arizona. Color, blue and green. Polished slabs. Cat. Nos. 

b-888-890; 84234. 
Malachite. Siberia. Color, bright green, banded. Tabular cut; elliptic-al girdle. 

Size, 40 by 32 by 4 mm. Cat. Nos. a-618; 51139. 
Malachite. Siberia. Color, dark green, with light green concentric rings. Size, 31 

by 4 mm. Cat. Nos. a-619; 51139. 
Malachite. Siberia. Color, bright green, with brown bands. Cabochon cut; cir- 
cular girdle. Size, 34 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. a-620; 82904. 
Malachite. Siberia. Color, dark green, banded. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 33 by 26 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. a-621; 84169. 
Malachite. Ural Mountains, Siberia. Color, deep green. Large Botryoidal mass. 

Cat. Nos. b-891; 45088. 
Malachite. Siberia. Color, green. Polished piece. Cat. Nos. b-892; 45032. 
Malachite. Ural ^Mountains, Siljeria. Color, green. Composite slab mounted on 

slate. Cat. Nos. b-893; 51483. 
Malachite. Australia. Color, green. Polished piece. Cat. Nos. b-894; 81284. 
Malachite. Bembe, West Africa. Color, green. Polished slab. Cat. Nos. b-895; 

49239. Gift of Mrs. 3Iary I. Stroud. 
Marble, see Carbonate of lime. 
MIcrocline, var. amazonstone. Media, Delaware County, Pennsylvania. Color, green, 

with flesh bands. Elliptical disk. Size, 17 by 11 by 3 mm. Cat. Nos. a-688; 

48921. Gift of Dr. Robert H. Lamborn. 
Microcline, var. Amazonstone. Mineral Hill, Delaware County, Pennsylvania. Color, 

green, with flesh-colored veins. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 45 by 34 

by 12 mm. Cat. Nos. a-698; 49718. The Lea Collection. 
Microcliiu:, var. amazonstone. Amelia Court-House, Virginia. Color, green. Cabo- 
chon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 48 by 34 by 9 mm. Cat. Nos. a-697; 48721. 
Microcline, var. amazonstone. Amelia Court-House, Virginia. Color, light green. 

Small tray. Cat. Nos. b-835; 84221. 
Microcline, var. amazonstone. Amelia Court-House, Mrginia. Color, green. Two 

balls. Size, 40 mm. and 37 mm. diameter. Cat. Nos. c-451-452; 84261. The 

Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Microcline, var. amazonstone. Pike's Peak, Colorado. Color, green. Cabochon 

cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 28 by 22 by 8 mm. Cat. Nos. a-696; 50383. 
Microcline, var. amazonstone. Siberia. Color, green. Cabochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Three gems. Sizes, 17 by 13 by 4 mm., 22 by 17 by 4 mm., 15 by 11 

by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. a-700-702; 50382. 
Microcline, var. amazonstone. Siberia. Color, green. Cabochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 18 by 13 by 3 mm. Cat. Nos. a-703; 82861. The Lea Collection. 
Microcline, var. amazonstone. Siberia. Color, green. Rectangular slab. Size, 72 

by 40 l)y 4 mm. Cat. Nos. a-704; 51445. Gift of C. S. Bement. 
Microcline, var. amazonstone. Color, green. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

33 by 24 by 10 mm. Cat. Nos. a-705; 45118. 
Moldavite, see Obsidian. 
Moonstone, see Albite or Oligoclase. 
Mosaic. Ekaterinburg, Siberia. Jewel })ox made of rhodonite, aventurine quartz, 

agate, and jasper. Cat. Nos. b-837; 51.397. 
Mosaic. Russia. ^losaic slab of the Seventeentli Century, made of agate and lapis 

lazuli mounted on slate. Cat. Nos. b-838; 51396. 



618 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Moss agate, see Quartz. 

Obsidian. Yellowstone National Park. Color, brown, with black blotches. Two 
pieces of ecjual size. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 26 by 19 by 6 mm. 
Cat. Nos. a-682-683; 46825. TheU. S. Geological Survey. 

Obsidian. Yellowstone Park. Color, brown. Cabochon cut; circular girdle. Two 
pieces, each 25 mm. diam., 10 mm. thick. Cat. Nos. a-684-685; 46825. The 
U. S. Geological Survey. 

Obsidian. Yellowstone National Park. Color, brown, with black blotches. Cabo- 
chon cut; rectangular girdle. Two pieces, each 22 by 18 by 10 mm. Cat. Xos. 
a-686-687; 46825. The U. S. Geological Survey. 

Obsidian. Yellowstone National Park. Color, dark brownish black. Cabochon 
cut; rectangular girdle. Two pieces; respective sizes, 28 by 21 by 7 mm., 35 by 
19 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. a-688-689; 46825. The U. S. Geological Survey. 

Obsidian. Yellowstone National Park. Color, black. Elliptical disks. Two pieces, 
each 21 by 17 by 3 mm. Cat. Nos. a-690-691; 46825. The U. S. Geological 
Survey. 

Obsidian. Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming. Color, smoky black. Cabochon 
cut; elliptical girdle. Cat. Nos. a-692; 48925. Gift of Dr. Robert H. Lamborn. 

Obsidian, var. moldavite. Moravia. Color, dark green. Step-brilliant cut; ellipti- 
cal girdle. Size, 24 by 17 by 11 mm.; weight, 22.55 carats. Cat. Nos. a-693; 
45119. 

Obsidian, var. moldavite. Moravia. Color, dark green. Brilliant cut; rectangular 
girdle. Size, 13 l)y 10 by 7 mm; weight, 4.83 carats. Cat. Nos. a-694; 45119. 

Oligodase. Hawk mica mine, near Bakersville, Mitcliell County, North Carolina. 
Colorless. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 14 by 10 by 6 mm.; 
weight, 5.90 carats. Cat. Nos. c-279; 50103. 

Oligoclase. Hawk mine, near Bakersville, Mitchell Coufity, North Carolina. Color- 
less. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 8.5 by 6 mm.; weight, 2.35 carats. 
Cat. Nos. c-230; 48470. 

Oligoclase. Norway. Color, dark gray, with change of color. Cabochon cut; 2 
elliptical, 1 square girdle. Sizes, 20 by 12 by 7 mm., 14 by 10 by 4.5 mm., 11 
by 4 mm. Cat. Nos. a-281-283; 84183. 

Oligoclase, var. moonstone. Delaware County, Pennsylvania. Color, light gray. 
Diamond shaped. Size, 54 by 30 by 17 mm. Cat. Nos. c-294; 84185. Gift of 
Charles Wilkes, U. S. N. 

Oligoclase, var. moonstone. Colorless. Cabochon cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 22 
by 10 by 7 mm. Cat. Nos. c-295; 50276. 

Oligoclase, var. sunstone. Arendal, Norway. Color, brown. Cabochon cut; circu- 
lar girdle. Two pieces. Size, 23 by 5.5 mm. Cat. Nos. c-269-270; 50332. 

Oligoclase, var. sunstone. Krageroe, Norway. Color, reddish. Size, 8 by 5 by 2 
cm. Cat. Nos. b-862; 84227. 

O^odasc, var. sunstone. Norway. Color, reddish brown. Cabochon cut; elliptical 
girdle. Five stones. Average size, 14 by 11 by 5.5 mm. Cat. Nos. c-271-275; 
82850. The Lea Collection. 

Oligoclase, var. sunstone. Norway. Color, reddish brown. Double cabochon cut; 
elliptical girdle. Size, 14 by 11 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. c-276; 83528. Lea Collec- 
tion. Gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 

Oligoclase, var. sunstone. Norway. Color, reddish brown. Cabochon cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, 32 by 9 by 3 mm. Cat. Nos. c-277; 84182. 

0/i5roda,se, var. moonstone. Ceylon (?). Colorless. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdles. 
Seven gems. Size of largest, 21.5 by 9 by 4 mm. ; average of remainder, 7 by 4 
by 3.5 mm. Cat. Nos. c-4] 0-416; 84186. 

Oligoclase, var. moonstone. Floitenthal, Tyrol. Colorless. Cabochon cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size, 22 by 14 by 7 mm. Cat. Nos. c-417; 84187. 



J 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 619 

Olujoclaxf, var. sunstono. Media, Delaware County, Pennsylvania. Color, reddish 

gray. Cal)ochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 4;i by 32 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. 

c-267; 50281. 
Oligodase, var. sunstone. Media, Delaware County, Pennsylvania. Color, light 

gray. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 27 by 19 by 5.5 mm. Cat. Nos. 

c-268; 50281. 
Oligodase, var. sunstone. Media, Delaware County, Pennsylvania. Color, streakeo 

white and brown. Kectangular disk. Size, 19 by 11 by 3 mm. Cat. Nos. c-278; 

48933. Gift of Dr. R. H. Lam born. 
Oligodase, var. moonstone. Delaware County, Pennsylvania. Colorless. Cabochon 

cut. Two gems. Size, 6.5 by 4.5 by 2.5 mm. and 4 by 2 mm. Cat. Nos. e-296- 

297; 82848. The Lea Collection. 
Oligodase, var. moonstone. Hanover County, Virginia. Colorless. Cabochon cut; 

elliptical girdle. Size, 30 by 15 by 7.5 mm. Cat. Nos. c-284; 47316. Gift of 

C. S. Bement. 
OZ/^oc/f/.st', var. moonstone. Ceylon. Colorless. Cabochon cut; elliptical and circu- 
lar girdles. Ninety-one small stones. Cat. Nos. c-298-388; 50328. 
Oligodase, var. moonstone. Ceylon. Colorless. Cabochon cut; elliptical and circu- 
lar. Twenty gems. Size of one, 38 by 15 by 9 mm.; of two, 12 by 5 mm.; 

remainder small. Cat. Nos. c-398-108; 82849. The Lea Collection. 
Oligodase, var. moonstone. Ceylon. Colorless. Triangular pendant. Size, 44 by 

25 by 8 mm. Cat. Nos. c-409; 50263. 
Onyx; see Carbonate of lime or Quartz. 
Oolite. Bristol, England. Color, reddish. Paperweight. Size, 10cm. long, 1.8cm. 

diameter. Cat. Nos. 1>-851; 84224. 
Opal. Garfield County, Washington. Uncut mass. Cat. Nos. b-969; 51863. Gift 

of the Washington Onyx Mining and Milling Company. 
Opal. Douglas City, Washington. Color, green. Uncut mass. Cat. Nos. b-970; 

83326. Gift of Henry Hedges. 
Opal. Queretaro, Mexico. Massive piece of fire opal in trachyte. Cat. Nos. l)-972; 

82565. 
Opal. Queretaro, Mexico. Fire opal in trachyte. Cat. Nos. b-973; 82565. 
Opal. Queretaro, Mexico. Mass of opal in matrix of reddish trachyte. Cat. Nos. 

l>-974; 82511. The Lea Collection. Gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Opal. Queretaro, Mexico. Color, bluish. Two small gems. Cabochon cut. Cat. 

Nos. b-98(>-981; 83762. Gift of Miss Knowlton. 
Opjal. Queretaro, Mexico. Color, blue. Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. b-982; 50340. 
Opal. Queretaro, Mexico. Color, white. Two small gems. Cabochon cut. Cat. 

Nos. b-983-984; 51137. 
Opal. Queretaro, Mexii'o. Color, white. Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. b-985; 50123. 
Opal. Queretaro, Mexico. Three gems. Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. b-986-988; 

50105. 
Opal. Queretaro, Mexico. Three fire opals. Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. b-989-991; 

50.341. , 

Opal. Queretaro, Mexico. Five small fire opals. Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. b-992- 

996; 50339. 
Opal. Queretaro, Mexico. Five fire opals. Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. b-997; c-2; 

50337. 
Opal. Queretaro, Mexico. Six small opals. Milky color. Cabochon cut. Cat. 

Nos. c-3-8; 50340. 
Opal. Queretaro, Mexico. Five pieces. Color, milky. Calwchon cut. Cat. Nos. 

c-9-13; 50338. 
Opal. Queretaro, Mexico. Thirteen small gems. Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. c-14- 

26; 47841. 



620 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Opal. La SilU'ta, Jalisco, Mexico. Mass of common opal. Color, grayish green, 

streaked. Cat. Nos. c-27; 5012L 
Opal. Mexico. Translucent with play of color. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle; 

high summit. Size, 2.5 by 1.7 by 1 mm.; weight, 20 carats. Cat. Nos. 461; 

84705. 
Op(d. Mexico. Transparent with play of color. Cabochon cut; circular girdle; 

high summit. Size 1 by 0.9 by 0.8 mm.; weight, 2.75 carats. Cat. Nos. c-462; 

84705. 
Opal. Mexico. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle; low arch. Size, 1 by 0.8 mm; 

weight, 1.25 carats. Cat. Nos. c-463; 84705. 
Opal. Honduras. Massive piece of fire opal. Cat. Nos. c-28; 8.3116. The Lea Col- 
lection. Gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Opal. Honduras. Two large gems; milky white. Caliochon cut. Cat. Nos. c-29- 

30; 50342. 
Opal. Honduras. Ten small precious opals. Color, white. Cabochon cut. Cat. 

Nos. c-31-40; 50.342. 
Opal. Czerwenitza, Himgary. Slab of trachyte containing small specks of precious 

opal. Polished. Cat. Nos. c-41; 45024. * 

Opal. Hungary. Color, white. Small gem. Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. c-42; 84244. 
Opal. Czerwenitza, Hungary. Color, bluish in gray trachyte. Cabochon cut. Cat. 

Nos. c-43; 50343. 
OiKil. Baracoo River, Queensland. Small piece of beautifully variegated opal in 

argillaceous limonite. Uncut. Cat. Nos. c-44; 83448. 
Opal. Baracoo River, Queensland, Australia. Two large precious ojials. Uncut. 

Cat. Nos. c-49-50; 83540. Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Opal. Baracoo River, Queensland, Australia. Veins of precious opal through 

matrix. Uncut. Cat. Nos. c-51; 81103. Gift of the Brisbane Museum. 
Opal. Queensland, Australia. Two small pieces precious opal. Uncut. Cat. Nos. 

0-52-53; 51105. 
Opal. Baracoo River, Queensland, Australia. Small polished slab containing 

deep blue opal. Cat. Nos. c-54; 45028. 
Opal. Baracoo River, Queensland, Australia. Color, greenish blue. Two engraved 

opals on brown limonite. Cat. Nos. c-55-56; 50258. 
Opal. Baracoo River, Queensland, Australia. Color, bluish. Seven small pieces. 

Cabachon cut. Cat. Nos. c-57-63; 51105. 
Opal. Baracoo River, Queensland, Australia. Four small pieces of polished 

limonite containing precious opal. Cat. Nos. c-64-67; 48487. 
Opal. Noto, Japan. Color, cream. Size, 5.7 by 2.3 cm. Cat. Nos. c-68; 18575. 
Opal. Hacienda Esperanza, Queretaro, Mexico. Five fire opals. Cabochon cut. 

Total weight, 36.75 carats. Cat. Nos. c-459; 84481-3. One stone the gift of Dr. 

L. T. Chamberlain. 
Orthodase, var. adularia. St. Gothard, Switzerland. Three small colorless gems. 

Cabochon cut; elliptical girdles. Size, 10 by 9 by 4 mm. =2; 7 by 5 by 2 mm. =1. 

Cat. Nos. c-264-266; 50380. 
Pearl. India. Color, white. Necklace of 148 round pearls and two pear-shaped 

pearls. Cat. Nos. c-97-246; 47352. Gift of Imaun of Muscat. 
Perthite. Perth, Canada. Color, brown. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

45 by 35 by 10 mm. Cat. Nos. c-262; 51077. The Lea Collection. 
Perthite. Perth, Canada. Color, brown with white veins. Cabochon cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, 33 by 13 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. c-263; 84181. 
Phenacite. Siberia. Colorless. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size 12.5 by 11 

by 7 mm.; weight, 5.10 carats. Cat. Nos. 830; 82914. The Lea Collection. 
Phenacite. Siberia. Colorless. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 8 by 8 by 5 mm.; 

weight, 2.09 carats. Cat. Nos. 831; 84069. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 621 

I'la.sina, .^ce (Quartz. 

Porphyry. Sweden. Color, black matrix with red feldspar. Tal)iilar cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Cat. NoiJ. b-841; 84222. 

Prase, see (Jnartz. 

Prchulk. Iloxies Quarry, Paterson, N.J. Color, light green. Two gems; cal>ochon 
cut; each 17 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. a-632-633; 84174. 

PrehnUe. Hoxies Quarry, Paterson, New Jersey. Color, light green. Cabochon 
cut. Size, 54 by 14 by 8 mm. Cat. Nos. a-634; 83580. 

Prelinite, var. c-hlorastrolite. Isle Royale, Lake Sui)erior. (Jolor, green, speckled. 
Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 20 by 17 by 4 mm. Cat. Nos. a-635; 
51136. 

Prelinite, var. c-hlorastrolite. Isle Royale, Lake Superior. Color, green, speckled. 
Cabochon cut. Average size, 15 by 11 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. a-636-638; 83330. 
The Lea Collection. Gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 

Prehnite, var. chlorastrolite. Isle Royale, Lake Superior. Color, green, speckled. 
Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 12 by 8.5 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. a-639; 
50106. 

Prelinite, var. chlorastrolite. Isle Royale, Lake Superior. Color, green, speckled. 
Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Five stones, three of which are small. Two 
are 14 by 11 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. a-640-644; 84175. 

Pyrope, see Garnet. 

Pyroxene. South Fork of Yadkin River, Davitlson County, North Carolina. Color, 
dark green. Polished slab. Cat. Nos. b-861; 13709. Gift of Dr. Edward 
Palmer. 

Pyro.vene, var. diopside. De Kalb, St. Lawren(;e, County, New York. Color, bottle 
green. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 18.5 by 13 by 6 mm.; weight, 
10.42 carats. Cat. Nos. a-571; 46828. 

Pyrcrene, var. diopside. De Kalb, St. Lawrence County, New Y''ork. Color, grass 
green. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 6.5 by 5.5 mm.; weight, 2.16 
carats. Cat. Nos. a-572; 46828. 

Pryoxene, var. diopside. De Kalb, St. Lawrence County, New Y''ork. Color, green. 
Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 8 by 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.87 
carats. Cat. Nos. a-573; 46828. 

Pyro.rene, var. diopside. De Kalb, St. Lawrence County, New York. Color, light 
green. Bi-illiant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 7.5 by 6.5 by 5 mm.; weight, 
.1.52 carats. Cat. Nos. a-574; 84106. 

Pyroxene, var. diopside. Renfrew County, Cana<la. Color, light green. Step-bril- 
liant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 7.5 by 7 by 4.5 mm.; weight, 1.68 carats. 
Cat. Nos. a-575; 82816. The Lea Collection. 

Pyro.rene, var. diopside. Tyrol. Color, pale yellow. Steii-brilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Size, 9 by 7 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.56 carats. Cat. Nos. a-576; 50323. 

Pyroxene, var. diopside. Tyrol. Color, deep green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Size, 7.5 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.30 carats. Cat. Nos. a-577; 
50323. 

Pyro.vene, var. diopside. Color, grass green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular gir- 
dle. Size, 10.5 by 5 by 2.5 mm.; weight, 1.16 carats. Cat. Nos. a-578; 84107. 

Quartz. Paris, Maine. Color, white, opalescent. Cabochon cut. Size, 44 by 23 by 
12 mm. Cat. Nos. a-990; 49194. 

Quartz. Fairfax Court-House, Virginia. Color, greenish, banded. Ta))ular cut. 
Size, 22 by 17 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. a-994-995; 47847. 

Quartz. Fairfax Court-House, Virginia. Color, greenish, banded. Cabochon cut; 
elliptical girdle. Cat. Nos. c-421; 48927. Gift of Dr. Robert H. Lamborn. 

Quartz. Silesia. Colorless; opalescent. Two stones; double cabochon cut; circular 
girdles. Cat. Nos. a-991-992; 50362. 



622 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1000. 



Q,i,irlz. Silesia. Color, pale yellow. cpii't-Hcent. Brilliant cut; circular {girdle. Size, 
10 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. a-W»:>; oO.JO'i. 

Q(mW-',var. agate. Agate Bay, Minnesota. Color, light brown. Ellipsoid; mounted 
as'charm. Cat. Nos. lj-199; 83328. The Lea Collection; gift ..f Dr. L. T. Cham- 
berlain. 

Qwar/2, var. agate. Lake Superior. Color, brown, banded. 
27 by 15 nun. Cat. Nos. l)-312-313; 13426. 

Quartz, var. agate. Lake Superior. Color, mottled red. 
The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 

Quartz, var. agate. Lake Superior. Color, red, banded. 
The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 

Quartz, var. agate. Brazil. Color, brownish gray. Cat. Nos. b-792; 44948. 

Color, brown. Cat. Nos. b-793; 49629. The Lea Col- 



Rectangular disks. Size, 



Cat. Nos. l)-324; 83325. 



Cat. Nos. b-790; 83325. 



Quartz, var. agate. 

lection. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, \ar. agate. 



Brazil. 



Brazil. Color, brown. Cat. Nos. b-794; 44948. 
Brazil. Color, red, banded. Cat. Nos. b-795; 44498. 
Brazil. Color, brown and white bands. Cat. Nos. b-796; 44948. 
Brazil. Color, green and gray. Cat. Nos. b-797; 45027. 
Brazil. Color, reddish. Cat. Nos. b-798; 49273. 
Brazil. Color, red and white ])anded. Large slal) of agate car- 
nelian. Cat. Nos. l)-799; 50135. 
Quartz, var. agate. Brazil. Color, red and gray. Carnelian agate cube, with edges 

Cat. Nos. b-800. 

Color, reddish banded. Cat. Nos. b-801-802; 50135. 
Large mass. Cat. Nos. b-803; 51534. The U. S. 



truncated. Size, 5 cm. 
Quartz, var. agate. Brazil. 
Quartz, var. agate. Brazil. 

Geological Survey. 
Quartz, var. agate. Brazil. 

lection. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, vai*. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 



Color, white. Cat. Nos. b-S04; 49629. The Lea Col- 



Uruguay. Small polished piece. Cat. Nos. b-195; 50424. 
Uruguay. One face polished. Cat. Nos. b-805; 50424. 
Uruguay. One face polished. Cat. Nos. b-806; 50424. 
Oberstein, Bavaria. Circular button. Cat. Nos. I>-196; 82862. 
The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. agate. Oberstein, Bavaria. Five small rectangular slabs, artificially 
colored. Various colors. Cat. Nos. b-200-204; 83526. Gift of George F. Kunz. 
Quartz, var. agate. Oberstein, Bavaria. Twenty-five agates of various cuts. Cat. 

Nos. l)-205-229; 50402. 
Quartz, var. agate. Oberstein, Bavaria. 

lj-249-287; 46816. 
Quartz, var. agate. Oberstein, Bavaria. 



Quartz, var. agate. One face polished. 

Quartz, var. agate. Oberstein, Bavaria. 

Quartz, var. agate. Oberstein, Bavaria. 

Quartz, var. agate. Oberstein, Bavaria. 

b-811; 82856. The Lea Collection. 

Quartz, var. agat(>. Oberstein, Bavaria. 

Cat. Nos. b-812; 50418. 

Quartz, var. agate. Oberstein, Bavaria. 



Thirty-nine agates, various cuts. Cat. Nos. 

Cube. Size, 4 cm. Cat. Nos. b-S07; 84218. 
Cat. Nos. b-808; 45005. 
Two faces polished . Cat. Nos. b-809 ; 84250. 

One face polished. Cat. Nos. b-810; 81418. 

Small dish. Size, 8 bv 6.2 cm. Cat. Nos. 



Carved seal handle. Size, 8.5 cm. 



long. 
Cat. 



Nos. b-813-819; 
Quartz, var. agate. 

Collection. 
Quartz, var. agate. 

Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. agate. 

Collection. 



Seven snuff boxes of various sizes. 
82798. The Lea Collection. 
Oberstein, Bavaria. Dish. Cat. Nos. l>-820; 82856. The Lea 

Germany. Carved seal handle. Cat. Nos. b-308; 82860. The 

Germany. Paper cutter. Cat. Nos. lj-337; 82857. T1h> Lea 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 



623 



Quartz, var. agrate. 

Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. ajijate. 

Collection. 
Quartz, var. iigate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 

50423. 
Quartz, var. apate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 



(Terinany. Small cane handle, ('at. Xos. 1>-S2]; 828(il. The 

Cierinany. Penholder. Cat. Nos. b-822; 82858. The Lea 

Italy. Ring. Cat. Nos. 1>-197; 82795. The Lea Collection. 
Japan. Elliptical disk. Size, 25 by 20 nam. Cat. Nos. b-198; 



Nine fmall agates; various cuts. Cat. Nos. b-230-238; 50408. 
Ten agates; various cuts. Cat. Nos. b-239-248; 50403. 
Twelve small agates. Various colors. Cat. Nos. b-288-299; 

82864. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. agate. Six agates of various cuts. 

305; 50401. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 

Fletcher. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Qiiartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 

323; 84249. 
Quartz, var. agate. 

46815. 
Quartz, var. agate. 

tion. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 
Quartz, var. agate. 

84220. 
(Quartz, var. agate. 



Different colors. Cat. Nos. b-300- 

Two slabs. Cat. Nos. b-306-307; 46801 . Gift of Colonel Totten. 
Seal handle. Cat. Nos. b-309; 84249. Gift of Dr. Robert 

Rectangular slab. Cat. Nos. b-310; 47470. 

Table cut; rectangular girdle. Cat. Nos. 13-311; 48481. 

Size, 24 by 20 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. b-314; 16458. 

Nine agates variously cut. Different colors. Cat. Nos. b-315- 

Twelve clouded agates. Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. l>-325-336; 

Recta,ngular slab. Cat. Nos. c-118; 44366. The Abert Collec- 



Small intaglio. Cat. Nos. b-823; 50068. 
One face polished. Cat. Nos. b-824; 84219. 
Slab, one face polished. Cat. Nos. lj-825; 48513 
Cat. Nos. b-826; 50552. The Lea Collection. 
Cat. Nos. 13-827; 82800. The Lea Collection. 
Cat. Nos. b-828; 82799. The Lea Collection. 
Cube with edges truncated. Size, 5.2 cm 



Cat. 



Cat. 



Nos. 13-829; 
Nos. 13-830; 



Cat. Nos. 



Cat. Nos. 



Cube with truncated edges. Size, 4.5 cm 

82801. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. agate. Cat. Nos. b-831; 46-832. Gift of F. W. Taylor. 
Quartz, var. agate. Size, 10 by 5.5 cm. Cat. Nos. b-832; 84220. 
Quartz, var. agate. Carved paper weight. Cat. Nos. b-833; 48484. 
Quartz, var. agatized wood. Chalcedony Park, Arizona. Sciuare slab 

b-775; 47962. Gift of the Drake Company. 
Qiiartz, var. agatized wood. Chalcedony Park, Arizona. S(]uare slab. 

b-776; 84216. 
Quartz, var. agatized w'ood. Chalcedonj' Park, Arizona. Mosaic slab of small 

blocks of agatized wood, mounted on slate. Cat. Nos. 13-777; 50110. 
(^artz, var. agatized wood. Chalcedony Park, Arizona. Color, black. Cross sec- 
tion of small tree. Cat. Nos. b-778; 47962. Gift of the Drake Company. 
Quartz, var. agatized wood. Chalcedony Park, Arizona. Color, red predominates. 

Three slabs and one cross section of tree. Cat. Nos. 1 

the Drake Company. 
(Quartz, var. agatized \vood. Chalcedony Park, Arizona. 

Size, 12.5 by 8.5 by 3.5 cm. Cat. Nos. 13-783; 48516. 
Quartz, var. agatized wood. Chalcedony Park, Arizona. 

cm. diam. Cat. Nos. l>-784; 50269. 
(Quartz, var. agatized wood. Chalcedony Park, Arizona 

Cat. Nos. b-785; 48443. Gift of Maj. J. W. Powell. 



-779-782; 47962. Gift of 

Dish-shaped ornament. 

Polished ball. Size, 11 

Small carved dog's head. 



024 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Quartz, var. agSLt'ized \\oit(\. Humboldt County, Nevada. Rectangular l)lock. Size, 

6 by 5 by 2.5 cm. Cat. Nos. }j-78H; 15610. 
Quartz, var. agatized wood. Longitudinal section of tree. Cat. Nos. l)-787; 48539. 
Quartz, var. agatized wood. Cross section of tree. Size, 9 cm. diam. Cat. Nos. 

b-788; 84217. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Stow, Maine. Color, deep amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; 

circulargirdle. Size, 19 by 12 nun.; weight, 22.90 carats. Cat. Nos. b-717; 50278. 
QiM/r/z, var. amethj'st. Stow, Maine. Color, amethyst. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 17 by 14 by 10 mm.; weight, 12.78 carats. Cat. Nos. a-721; 46826. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Brazil. Color, amethyst. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 17 by 10 mm. Cat. Nos. a-724; 84188. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Brazil. Color, amethyst. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 16 by 10 mm. Cat. Nos. a-725; 94188. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Brazil. Color, amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 22 by 16 by 8 mm. Cat. No.s. a-726; 84188. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Brazil. Color, amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 16 by 15 by 8 mm. Cat. Nos. a-727; 84188. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Brazil. Color, amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 13 by 8 mm. Cat. Nos. s-728; 84188. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Harz, GermanJ^ Color, pale amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; 

elliptical girdle. Size, 10 by 9 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. a-730; 47785. Gift of Dr. 

Henry A. Fisher. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Germany. Color, amethyst. Seal handle on gold base. 

Cat. Nos. a-742; 82786. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Siberia. Color, deep amethyst. Brilliant cut; square gir- 
dles. Eleven stones; average size, 5 by 3 mm. Cat. Nos. a-731-741; 84189. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Japan. Color, amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; oval girdle. 

Size, 21 by 19 by 11 mm. Cat. Nos. a-729; 50366. 
(Quartz, var. amethyst. Color, amethyst. Step cut; intaglio; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 18 by 16 by 9 mm. Cat. Nos. a-743; 50272. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Warlick, Burke County, North Carolina. Color, light ame- 
thyst. Step, brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 18 by 16 by 9 mm.; weight, 

14.61 carats. Cat. Nos. a-718; 83742. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. 

Chamberlain, 
^larte, var. amethyst. Macon County, North Carolina. Color, amethyst. Brilliant 

cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 7 by 13 by 8 mm.; weight, 9.93 carats. Cat. Nos. 

a-719; 48471. 
(Quartz, var. amethyst. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, deep amethyst. Step, bril- 
liant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 48 by 33 by 21 mm.; weight, 178.13 carats. 

Cat. Nos. a-722; 83538. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Brazil. Color, amethyst. Brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 21 b> 16 by 11.5 mm. Cat. Nos. a-723; 84188. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Ten miles southeast of Statesville, Alexander County, North 

Carolina. Color, amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 14 by 

10 mm.; weight, 9.71 carats. Cat. Nos. a-713; 83746. The Lea Collection; gift 

of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Ten miles southeast of Statesville, Alexander County, North 

Carolina. Color, amethyst. Step- brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 12 by 

8 mm.; weight, 6.39 carats. Cat. Nos. a-714; 83746. The Lea Collection; gift 

of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. amethyat. Ten miles southea.-it of Statesville, Alexander County, North 

Carolina. Color, light amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 

12 by 8 mm.; weight, 6.07 carats. Cat. Nos. a-715; 83746. The Lea Collection; 

gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 625 

Quartz, var. anietliyt^t. Ten miles southeast of Statesville, Alexander (^ounty, North 

Carolina. Color, light amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 8 by 

6 mm.; weight, 2.36 carats. Cat. Nos. a-716; 88748. The Lea Collection; gift 

of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Ten miles southeast of Statesville, Alexander County, North 

Carolina. Color, amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; circular girdle. Si/.e, 20 by 14 

mm.; weight, 26.8L Cat. Nos. a-709; 83746. The Lea Collection; the gift of 

Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Ten miles southeast of Statesville, Alexander C'ounty, North 

Carolina. Color, amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size 15 by 11 

mm.; weight, 12.57 carats. Cat. Nos. a-710; 83746. The Lea Collection; gift of 

Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Ten miles southeast of Statesville, Alexander County, North 

Carolina. Color, amethyst. Step-ljrilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 14 by 10 

mm.; weight, 9.32 carats. Cat. Nos. a-711; 83746. The Lea Collection; gift of 

Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Ten miles southeast of Statesville, Alexander County, North 

Carolina. Color, amethyst. Step-l)rilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 14 by 10 

mm.; weight, 9.75 carats. Cat. Nos. a-712; 83746. The Lea Collection; gift of 

Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Ten miles southeast of Statesville, Alexander County, North 

Carolina. Color, amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 46 by 

34 by 22 mm.; weight, 197.53 carats. Cat. Nos. a-706; 83746. The Lea Collec- 
tion; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Ten miles southeast of Statesville, Alexander County, North 

Carolina. Color, deep amethyst. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 32 by 23 

mm.; weight, 119.09 carats. Cat. Nos. a-707; 83746. The Lea Collection; gift 

of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Ten miles southeast of Statesville, Alexander County, North 

Carolina. Color, amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size 21 by 14 

mm.; weight, 32.39 carats. Cat. Nos. a-708; 83746. The Lea Collection; gift 

of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Upper Providence, Delaware County, Pennsjdvania. Color, 

deep amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; octagonal girdle. Size, 21 by 15 mm.; 

weight, 35.27 carats. Cat. Nos. a-720; 83537. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. 

L. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Color, amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

25 by 21 by 10 mm.; weight, 32.66 carats. Cat. Nos. a-744; 50365. 
Quartz, \2ir. amethyst. Color, amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 23 by 18 by 9 mm. Cat. Nos. a-745; 50365. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Color, amethyst. Size, 17 by 13 by 9 mm. Cat. Nos. a-746; 

50365. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Color, amethyst. Brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 14 

by 12 by 8 mm. Cat. Nos. a-747; 50365. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Color, amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; octagonal girdle. Size, 

11 by 10 by 7 mm. Cat. Nos. a-748; 50365. 
(^^Hort2, var. amethyst. Color, amethyst. Step-l)rilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

14 by 11 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. a-749; 50365. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Color, amethyst. Step-brilliant cut. Sixteen stones. Size: 

Largest, 24 by 20 by 10; smallest, 7 by 7 by 4 mm. Cat. Nos. a-750-765; 82782. 

The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Color, amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Fom*- 

teen stones; average size, 14 by 10 by 4 mm. Cat. Nos. a-766-779; 50368. 



62fi REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Qu«'"/^. van aiiR'tliyst. ('olor, ainotliyst. Stop-brilliant cut; trianj^nlar j,Mr(ll('. Sizo, 

20 l)y 14 l)y 10 mm. ("at. Nos. a-7S0; <S27(?9. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Pale amethyst. Step-brilliant cut. Eight stones of various 

sizes. Cat. Nos. a-781-788; 82782. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Color, pale amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; oval girdle. Size, 

16 by 13 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. a-789; 92770. The Lea Collection. 
Qimr/s, var. amethyst. Color, pale ametliyst. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 

12 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. a-790; .5036C. 
Quartz, var. amethyst. Color, smoky amethyst. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 14 by 11 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. a-791; 82782. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. aventurine. Spain. Color, green. Polished slab. Cat. Nos. l)-783; 

45030. 
Quartz, var. aventurine. Near Madrid, Spain. Color, brown. Cabochon cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size, 30 by 21 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. b-735; 50364. 
Quartz, var. aventurine. Russia. Color, brown. Polished slab. Cat. Nos. l>-7.".4; 

45029. 
Quartz, var. beekite. Devon, England. Color, yellowish. Small carved dish. Cat. 

Nos. b-789; 51935. 
Quartz, var. l)loodstone. India. Color, green with red spots. Five pieces, variously 

cut. Cat. Nos. b-632-636; 50399. 
Quartz, var. bloodstone. India. Green with spots. Cat. Nos. b-637; 47466. (iift 

of George F. Kunz. 
Quartz, var. bloodstone. India. Two small snuff boxes. Cat. Nos. h-638-639; 

50400. 
Quartz, var. bloodstone. India. Color, green with red spots. Cat. Nos. 1)-640; 

50399. 
Quartz, var. bloodstone. Egypt. Color, green with red spots. Cat. Nos. ]i-641; 

44951. 
Quartz, var. bloodstone. Color, green with red spots. Small intaglio. Cat. Nos. 

b-642; 48473. 
Quartz, var. bloodstone. Color, dark green with red spots. Intaglio. Cat. Nos. 

b-643; 50067. 
Quartz, var. bloodstone. Color, green with red spots. Six pieces of various cuts. 

Cat. Nos. b-644-649; 46817. 
Quartz, var. bloodstone. Color, green with red spots. Two pieces. Cat. Nos. 

b-650-651; 49244. 
Quartz, var. bloodstone. Color, green with red spots. Cabochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Cat. Nos. b-652; 47393. Gift of Mrs. Spencer F. Baird. 
Quartz, var. bloodstone. Color, green with red spots. Ellii)tical and shield shape. 

Five small pieces. Cat. Nos. b-653-657; 82796. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. bloodstone. Color, green with red spots. Cabochon cut. Two large 

pieces. Cat. Nos. b-658-659. Gift of Geo. F. Kunz. 
Quartz, var. bloodstone. Color, green with red spots. Size, 2.7 cm. diam. Cat. 

Nos. b-660; 84211. 
Quartz, var. bloodstone. With agate in silver mounting, as breastpin. Cat. Nos. 

b-661; 46508. Gift of Messrs. Harris & Shafer. 
Quartz, var. carnelian. Brazil. Color, red. Paper cutter. Cat. Nos. b-504; 48538. 
Quartz, var. carnelian. Germany. Color, red, banded. Bracelet of 6 buttons and 

12 beads. Cat. Nos. b-605; 82859. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. carnelian. Oberstein, Bavaria. Color, red. Size, 24 by U' nun. Cat. 

Nos. b-503; 14157. Tlie Ilawes Collection. 
Qwartz, var. carnelian. Palestine, Holy Land. Color, red. Size, 15 by 13 l)y 3 min. 

Cat. Nos. b-502; 18243. 
Quartz, var. carnelian. Color, red. Size, 12 by 10 cm. Cat. Nos. b-505; 45016. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS, 627 

Quartz, var. carnelian. Color, deep red. Caboflion cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

53 by 42 mm. Cat. Nos. b-506; 50406. 
Quartz, var. carnelian. Color, red. Six small stones of various cuts. Cat. Nos. 

b-5b7-512; 46812. 
Quartz, var. carnelian. Color, red. Twelve stones. Cat. Xos. l)-5L3-524; 46813. 
Quartz, var. carnelian. Color, red. Twenty-seven stones, variously cut. Cat. Nos. 

b-525-551. 
Quartz, var. carnelian. Color, red. Fifty-three stones, variously cut. Cat. Nos. 

b-552-604; 82863. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. carnelian. Color, red. Fifteen small intaglios. Cat. Nos. b-606-620; 

82S65. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. carnelian. Color, red. Six small intaglios. Cat. Nos. b-621-626; 

47396. Deposited by Thomas Wilson. 
Quartz, var. carnelian. Color, red. Size small. Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. Ij-627; 

46812. 
Quartz, var. carnelian. Color, red. Four small intaglios. Cat. Nos. b-628-631; 

50069. 
Quartz, var. cat's-eye. Cumberland, Rhode Island. Color, dark green. Cabochon 

cut; eUiptical girdle. Size, 19 by 13 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. b-2o; 84198. 
Quartz, var. cat's-eye. Bavaria. Color, brownish green. Cabochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 22 by 13 by 7 mm. Cat. Nos. b-27; 50379. 
Quartz, var. cat's-eye. Hof, Bavaria. Color, dark green. Cabochon cut; circular 

and elliptical girdles. Three small stones. Size, 7 mm. diam. Cat. Nos. 

b-28-30; 50265. 
Quartz, var. cat's-eye. Hungary. Color, dark green. Cabochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Two stones. Size, 14 by 10 by 6 and 12 by 8 by 4 mm. Cat. Nos. 

l)-31-32; 50321. 
Quartz, var. cat's-eye. Ceylon. Color, pale greenish. Cabochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Four pieces. Size, 29 l)y 17 by 10 and 10 by 6 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. 

b-18-21; 82846. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. cat's-eye. Ceylon. Color, pale green. Cabochon cut; mounted in 

ring. Cat. Nos. b-32; 82847. The Lea Collection. 
(^»«r/r, var. cat's-eye. Ceylon. Color, pale green. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 15 by 12 by 8 mm. Cat. Nos. b-23; 50320. 
Quartz, var. cat's-eye. Ceylon. Color, pale green. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 18 by 14 "by 7 mm. Cat. Nos. b-24; 84199. 
Quartz, var. cat's-eye. Madras, India. Color, pale green. 22 beads. Cat. Nos. 

b-26; 84200. 
Quartz, var. cat's-eye. Color, dark green. Cabochon i-ut; circular girdle. Size, 9 

by 4 mm. Cat. Nos. b-33; 84254. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. Fairfax Court-House, Virginia. Color, milky white. 

Cabochon cut; circular girdle. Size, 10 by 7 mm. Cat. Nos. b-70; 47849. 
Qu(trtz, var. chalcedony. Yellowstone Park, Wyoming. Cat. Nos. b-737; 83857. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. Yellowstone Park, Wyoming. Two pieces. Size, 7 cm. 

diam. Cat. Nos. b-738-739; 83857. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. Yellowi^tone Park, Wyoming. Color, gray. Cat. Nos. 

b-740; 83857. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. Germany. Color, milky white. Cabochon cut. Two 

pieces. Cat. Nos. b-68-69; 47469. Gift of George F. Kunz. 
Qrtarfz, var. chalcedony. Faroe Islands. Color, gray. Cat. Nos. b-741; 81976. The 

U. S. Geological Survey. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. India. Cabochon cut. Six stones. Cat. Nos. b-62-67; 

50422. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. Ten stones, variously cut. Cat. Nos. b-71-80; 46808. 



628 



RErORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 



Cat. Nos. b-94-111; 
Cat. Nos. b-112-181; 



Cat. Nos. b-193; 44365. The Abert Collection. 

Color, light brown. Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. b-194; 

Paper weight. Cat. Nos. b-742; 50147. The Lea Col- 



Quartz, var. chalcedony. Nine stones of cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. l)-Sl-89; 46809. 
(^irtWs, var. clialcedony. Color, yellow ; banded. Four stones. Cabochon cut; rec- 
tangular girdle. Cat. Nos. 1^-90-93; 50413. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. Eighteen stones. Cabochon , cut. 

50416. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. Seventy stones of various cuts. 

50417. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. Color, yellow, black, and green. Five stones of various 

cuts. Cat. Nos. b-182-187. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. Color, milky white. Cabochon cut. Four stones. Cat. 

Nos. b-188-191; 82794. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. Color, yellow. Cat. Nos. b-192; 82802. The Lea Col- 
lection. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. 

48480. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. 

lection. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. Snuff box. Cat. Nos. b-74o; 50414. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. Color, gray. Small intaglio. Cat. Nos. b-744; 47396. 

Deposited by Thomas Wilson. 
Quartz, var. chalcedony. Color, brown. Six intaglios. Cat. Nos. b-745-750; 48472. 
Quartz, var. chrysoprase. Tulare County, California. Color, green. Cabochon cut; 

elliptical girdle. Cat. Nos. b-726; 83554. 
Quartz, var. chrysoprase. Silesia. Color, green. Sixteen stones, large and siriall. 

Brilliant and calxjchon cuts. Cat. Nos. b-34-49; 50375. 
Quartz, var. chrysoprase. Silesia. Color, green. Circular disk. Size, 19 mm. diam. 

Cat. Nos. ))-50; 84251. The Lea Collection. 
Qitrtrtz, var. chrysoprase. Color, apple green. Ca1)Ochon cut; circular girdle. Size, 

24 by 13 null. Cat. Nos. b-51; 46822. 
Quartz, var. citrine. White Plains, Alexander County, North Carolina. Color, pale 

yellow. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 34 by 23 mm. ; weight, 133.01 carats. 

Cat. Nos. a-911; 83737. The Lea Collec-tion; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Brazil. Color, yellowish green. Step-brilliant cut; 5 stones. 

Cat. Nos. a-912-916; 50345. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Brazil. Color, yellowish brown. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 43 by 35 by 18 mm.; weight, 151.91 carats. Cat. Nos. a-917; 

50346. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Brazil. Color, citrine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 32 by 25 by 13 mm.; weight, 57.88 carats. Cat. Nos. a-918; 

50347. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Brazil. Color, citrine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 23 by 20 by 11 nun. ; weight, 34.14 carats. Cat. Nos. a-919; 50347. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Color, brownish yellow. Step-briUiant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 24 by 18 by 10 mm.; weight, 23.66 carats. Cat. Nos. a-920; 50347. 
(Quartz, var. citrine. Brazil. Color, citrine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 20 by 17 by 10 mm. Cat. Nos. a-921; 50347. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Brazil. Color, citrine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 17 by 13 by 8 mm. Cat. Nos. a-922; 50347. 
Quartz, \ar. citrme. Brazil. Color, brownish yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Size, 24 by 18 by 9 mm. Cat. Nos. a-923; 50348. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Brazil. Color, yellowish brown. Step-brilliant cut; ellipti- 
cal girdle. Three stones. Sizes, 17 by 11 by 6, 14 by 11 by 6, 12 by 9 by 5.5 mm. 

Cat. Nos. a-924-926; 50348. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 629 

Quartz, var. oitrine. Brazil. Color, pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical gir- 
dle. Size, 44 by 33 by 20 mm.; weight, 155.95 carats. Cat. Nos. a-927; 50349. 
Quar/z, var. citrine. Color, pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

30 by 23 by 13 mm.; weight, 53.24 carats. Cat. Nos. a-928; 50349. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Brazil. Color, pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical gir- 
dle. Size, 27 by 20 by 11 mm. Cat. Nos. a-929; 50349. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Color, pale yello'w. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

12 by 13 by 8 mm. Cat. Nos. a-930; 50349. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Brazil. Color, citrine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

gu-^le. Size, 22 by 16 by 11 mm. Cat. Nos. a-931 ; 82767. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Brazil. Color, citrine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; octagonal 

girdle. Size, 12 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. a-932; 82767. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Brazil. Color, pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical gir- 
dle. Size, 12 by 10 by 7 mm. Cat. Nos. a-933; 82767. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Switzerland. Color, citrhie yellow. Step cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 34 by 27 by 15 mm. ; weight, 89.64 carats. Cat. Nos. a-934; 50358. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Switzerland. Color, citrine yellow. Knife -handle. Size, 7^ 

cm. long. Cat. Nos. a-935; 50357. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Italy. Color, pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 29 by 22 by 12 mm. ; weight, 49.90 carats. Cat. Nos. a-936; 82768. The 

Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Color, citrine yellow. Step-brilliant cut. Fourteen stones. Size, 

largest, 34 by 23 by 11 mm.; smallest, 10 by 8 by 5 nun. Cat. Nos. a-937-950; 

50368. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Color, pale yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

37 by 30 by 15 mm.; weight, 97.22 carats. Cat. Nos. a-95l; 82770. The Lea 

Collection. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Color, citrine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular gii-dle. 

Three stones. Sizes, 18 by 15 by 8, 17 by 14 by 5, 13 by 9 by 4 mm. Cat. Nos. 

a-952; 954; 82770. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Color, citrine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Nine stones; average size, 14 by 10 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. a-955-963; 82770. The 

Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Color, citrine yellow. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Nine 

stones; average size, 6 by 4 mm.; two stones larger. Cat. Nos. a-964-974; 82776. 

The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Color, citrine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Nme stones. Size of largest, 25 by 18 by 12; of smallest, 11 l)y 9 l)y 6 mm. Cat. 

Nos. a-975-983; 82776. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Florissant, El Paso County, Colorado. Color, citrine yellow. 

Brilliant top or mixed cut. Weight, 138.5 carats. Cat. Nos. c-456; 84376. Lea 

Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. citrine. Color, citrine yellow. Seal with I'oat-of-arms mounted as watch 

charm. Cat. Nos. a-984; 84192. Deposited ])y W. R. Gibljs. 
Quartz, var. flint. Chalk beds, England. Color, Ijrown. Cabochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 25 by 21 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. 1j-736; 50427. 
QHarf2, with inclusions. Rhode Island. Color, greenish; elliptical disk containing 

actinolite. Size, 28 by 20 by 3 mm. Cat. Nos. a-996; 84192. 
Quartz, with inclusions. Fairfax, Virginia. Colorless, with dark inclusions. Size, 

14 by 11 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. c-420; 48926. Gift of Dr. Robt. H. Lamborn. 
Quartz, with inclusions. Alexander County, North Carolina. Colorless, with red 

rutile needles. Rectangular disk. Size, 24 Vjy 18 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. a-997; 

84193. 



030 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Color, reddish l)r()\vn. Caboehon cut; ellipitical girdle. 
Size, 21 by 17 by 6 nmi. Cat. Nos. a-998; 84193. 

Quartz, with inclusions. McDaniel's Farm, Iredell County, North Carolina. Color, 
brownish with rutile needles. Heart-shaped. Cat. Nos. a-999; 83741. The Lea 
Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Iredell County, North Carolina. Two jiieces of quartz 
filled with rutile crystals. Cat. Nos. b-758-759; 83681. The Lea Collection; 
gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Iredell Count}', North Carolina. Polished piece containing 
rutile needles. Cat. Nos. b-760; 82781. The Lea Collection. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Iredell County, North Carolina. Polished piece rock crys- 
tal, containing rutile needles. Cat. Nos. 1>-761; 84215. 

Quartz, w'ith inclusions. Burke County, North Carolina. Colorless, with crystal 
faces, containing black tourmaline needles. Cat. Nos. b-762; 82780. The Lea 
Collection. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Near Hot Springs, Arkansas. Colorless, with green chlorite 
blotches. Step cut; square girdle. Cat. Nos. b-1; 84194. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Near Hot Springs, Arkansas. Colorless, with green chlo- 
rite blotches. Step cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 24 by 19 by 7 mm. One-half 
filled with mossy chlorite. Cat. Nos. b-2; 84194. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Near Hot Springs, Arkansas. Colorless, with red and green 
chlorite layer. Table cut. Size, 27 by 22 by 8 mm. Cat. Nos. l>-3; 84^94. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Colorado. Color, black with gothite inclusions. Heart- 
shaped. Two stones. Sizes, 18 by 18 by 8 mm.; 16 by 16 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. 
b-^5; 50107. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Clip, Arizona. Color, dark blue. Cabochon cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Two pieces, containing dumortierite. Cat. Nos. b-1 6-1 7; 84196. 

Quartz, with inclusions. California. Color, white with inclusions of gold. Small 
elliptical disk. Size, 27 by 21 by 3 mm. Cat. Nos. b-14; 50381. 

Quartz, with inclusions. California. Color, white with inclusions of gold. Small 
slab. Cat. Nos. b-15; 84195. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Brazil. Colorless, with reddish brown needles. Cabochon 
cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 34 by 27 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. b-6; 50360. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Brazil. Colorless, with brown rutile inclusions. Ellip- 
tical disk. Size, 40 by 35 by 4 mm. Cat. Nos. b-7; 82787. The Lea Collection. 

Quarts, with ijiclusions. Brazil. Colorless, with planes of green chlorite. Cabochon 
cut; elliptii-al girdle. Size, 29 by 21 by 7 mm. Cat. Nos. b-8; 50361. 

(?»arte, W'ith inclusions. Brazil. Colorless. Crystal of phantom quartz, with chlo- 
rite along the growth planes of crystal. Cat. Nos. b-763; 82958. The Lea Col- 
lection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Brazil. Colorless. Contains rutile needles. Cat. Nos. 
b-764; 46821. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Brazil. Colorless. Contains several long rutile needles. 
Cat. Nos. b-765; 46821. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Brazil. Color, yellowish. Crystal of pliantom quartz, with 
chlorite along growth planes of crystal. Cat.'Nos. b-766; 51482. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Switzerland. Colorless. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. 
Size, 38 by 28 by 8 mm. Cat. Nos. b-9; 50374. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Siberia. Color, yellow. Carved seal handle, containing 
rutile needles. Cat. Nos. b-767; 51398. 

Quartz, with inclusions. Colorless, wdth black hornblende needles. Cabochon cut; 
elliptical girdle. Size, 24 by 19 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. b-10; 83340. The Lea 
Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 



CATALOGUK OF OEMS. ()81 

Quartz, with inclusions. Japan. Colorless, with green tremolite. Douhld'ahochon 

cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 20 by 15 by 9 mm. Cat. Nos. 1)-11; 83340. The 

Lea Collection; gift of Dr. Tj. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, with inclusions. Japan. Colorless. Two small i)risnis, containing tremo- 

lite needles. Cat. Nos. b-768-769; 83340. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. 

Chaml)erlain. 
Quartz, with inclusions. Madagascar. Slab filled with acicnlar rntilc needles. Cat. 

Nos. b-770; 83764. 
Quartz, with inclusions. Madagascar. Large, polished rock crystal, containing long 

rutile needles. Cat. Nos. b-771; 83764. 
Quartz, with inclusions. Griqualand, South Africa. Color, brownish. Rectangular 

cut. Contains hematite veins in jasper. Cat. Nos. b-772; 18403. 
Quartz, wdth inclusions. Colorless, with blotch of dark rutile fibers. Step-brilliant 

cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 15 by 12 by 7 mm. Cat. Nos. b-12; 82775. The Lea 

Collection. 
Qm(//72;, with inclusions. Colorless. Step-cabochoncut; rectangular girdle. Size, 16 

l)y 12 by 4 mm. Cat. Nos. b-13; 82775. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, with inclusions. Color, smoky brown. Two slal)s containing rutile needles. 

Cat. Nos. b-773-774; 83008. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
(Quartz, var. jasper. Hertfordshire, England. Color, brown. Breastpin and cuff 

buttons. Cat. Nos. b-667-669; 50260. 
Quartz, var. jasper. Hertfordshire, England. Slab of jjudding stone. Cat. Nos. 

b-670; 50390. 
Quartz, var. jasper. Saxony. Color, red. Cat. Nos. l:)-6()6; 84252. 
Quartz, var. jasper. Siberia. Color, red. Cat. Nos. b-662; 50136. 
Q?^orte, var. jasper. Siberia. Color, red and green. Small slab. Size, 9 by 6.3 cm. 

Cat. Nos. b-663; 50397. 
Quartz, var. jasper. Orenburg, Ural Mountains. C'olor, red and yellow. Slab. 

Cat. Nos. b-664; 51479. 
Quartz, var. jasper. Orenburg, Ural Mountains. Color, green and red banded. 

Size, 25 by 19 mm. Cat. Nos. b-665; 50397. 
Quartz, var. jasper. Elver Nile, Egypt. Color, brown. Two pieces; cabochon cut 

and slab. Cat. Nos. b-671-672; 50433. 
Quartz, var. jasper. India. Color, red and green. Two large pieces. Cat. Nos. 

b-673-674; 51393. 
Quartz, var. jasjter. Color, reddish brown. Ellii)tical disk of agate jasper. Cat. 

Nos. l>-675; 46804. 
^«r<z, var. jasper. Color, blue. Two colored pieces. Cat. Nos. b-676-677; 46811. 
Quartz, var. jasper. Color, red and brown. Six pieces, variously cut. Cat. Nos. 

b-678-683; 46810. 
(}uartz, var. jasper. Color, red. Elliptical disk of agate jasper. Cat. Nos. b-684; 

50405. 
Quartz, var. jasper. Color, red. Cat. Nos. ])-685; 84212. 
Quartz, var. jasper. Cat. Nos. b-686; 48512. 

(^lartz, var. jasper. Color, yellow and red. Slab. Cat. Nos. b-687; 84253. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. Kansas. Seven small stones. Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. 

b-438-444; 50421. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. Kansas. Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. c-419; 50421. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. Yellowstone Park, Wyoming. Two small pieces. Cabo- 
chon and elliptical cnits. Cat. Nos. c-426-427; 47844. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming. Three small pieces. 

Cat. Nos. c-428-430; 46827. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming. Cat. Nos. c-431; 

82791. The Lea Collection. 
NAT MITS 1!>00 43 



632 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Quartz, var. moss agate. Near Fort Bridger, Wyoming. Small piece. Cabochon- 

cut; elliptical girdle. Cat. Nos. c-4.32; 50426. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. India. Color, green. Size, 44 by 33 mm. Cat. Nos. 1j-338;, 

50419. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. India. Cat. Nos. b-339; 83344. Lea Collection; gift of. 

Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. India. Ninety-two small stones. Cabochon cut. Cat.. 

Nos. b-340-431; 50420. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. Japan. Color, gray. Five stones. Cabochon cut. Cat.. 

Nos. b-432-436; 82789. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. Cliina. Color, green. Cat. Nos. l)-437; 82788. The Lea 

Collection. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. Five stones of various cuts. Cat. Nos. b-445-449; 50404. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. Three pieces. Cat. Nos. b-450-452; 50407. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. Five small stones. Cabochon cut; circular girdles. Cat. 

Nos. b-453-157; 50409. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. Cat. Nos. b-458; 50412. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. Cat. Nos. b-459; 48483. 

Quartz, var. moss agate. Two pieces. Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. l)-460-461; 48478. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. Six small slabs. Cat. Nos. lj-462-467; 47464. Gift of 

George F. Kunz. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. Twenty-one pieces, of various cuts. Cat. Nos. l)-468-488; 

46814. 
Quartz, var. moss agate. Thirteen small stones. Cabochon cut. Cat. Nos. b-489- 

501; 82790. The Lea Collection. 
Quartz, var. onyx. Brazil. Small cameo. Cat. Nos. b-709; 48537. 
Quartz, var. onyx. Germany. Color, dark brown and white banded. Two large 

pieces. Cat. Nos. b-707-708; 47467. Gift of George F. Kunz. 
Quartz, var. onyx. One large and two medium-sized cameos. Cat. Nos. b-710-712; 

48476. 
Quartz, var. onyx. Small cameo. Cat. Nos. b-713; 84214. 
Quartz, var. onyx. Two cameos. Cat. Nos. b-714-715; 50275. 
Quartz, var. onyx. Color, red banded. Cat. Nos. b-716; 50411. 
Quartz, var. onyx. Six small pieces. Cat. Nos. b-717-722; 50410. 
Quartz, var. plasma. India. Color, dark green. Four buttons. Cat. Nos. b-56-59; 

46805. 
Quartz, var. plasma. India. Color, apple green. Cabochon cut. Two pieces. Cat. 

Nos. b-60-61; 46805. 
Quartz, var. plasma. India. Cat. Nos. b-723; 50431. 
Quartz, var. plasma. Color, dark green. Small intaglio. Cat. Nos. b-724; 47396. 

Deposited l)y Tliomas Wilson. 
Quartz, var. prase. Germany. Color, green. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

18 by 13 by 11 mm. Cat. Nos. b-52; 50377. 
Quartz, var. prase. Breitenbrunn, Saxony. Color, dirty green. Two stones. Cabo- 
chon cut; elliptical girdles. Size, 20 by 13 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. b-53-54; 50376. 
Quartz, var. plasma. Tartary. Color, green. Elliptical disk. Size, 53 by 40 mm. 

Cat. Nos. b-55; 50430. 
Quartz, var. rock crystal. Chestnuthill Township, Ashe County, North Carolina. 

Colorless. Large ball. Size, 11 cm. diameter. Cat. Nos. b-751; 83686. The 

Lea Collection ; gift of Dr. L. T, Chamberlain. 
Quartz, var. rock crystal. Redhill, near Bakersville, Mitchell County, North Caro- 
lina. Colorless. Eighteen quartz arrowheads. Cat. Nos. a-854-872; 83683. 

The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlam. 
Quartz, var. rock crystal. Brazil. Colorless. Cabochon cut; circular girdle, C at, 

Nos. a-816; 50359. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 633 

Quart:, var. rock crystal. Brazil. Colorless. Step-brilliant cut. Size, 13 by 10.5 
"hy 4 mm. Cat. Xos. nSbl; 82767. The Lea Collection. 

Quartz, var. rock crystal. Germany. Colorless. Two lenses. Cabochon cut; cir- 
cular girdles. Size, 21 by 9 and 19 by 9 mm. Cat. Xos. a-799-800; 82772. The 
Lea Collection. 

Quartz, var. prase. China. Color, green. Small, thin slab. Cat. Nos. b-725; 50378. 

Quartz, var. rock crystal. Chestnuthill Township, Ashe County, North Carolina. 
Colorless. Rose cut; circular girdle. Size, 48 by 26 mm.; weight, 345 carats. 
Cat. Nos. a-793; 83735. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 

Quartz, var. rock crystal. Chestnuthill Township, Ashe County, North Carolina. 
Colorless. Rose cut; circular girdle. Size, 50 by 23 mm.; weight, 341.55 
carats. Cat. Xos. a-794; 83735. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Cham- 
berlain. 

Quartz, var. rock crystal. Chestnuthill Township, Ashe CJounty, North Carolina. 
Colorless. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 17 by 12 mm.; weight, 19.10 
carats. Cat. Nos. a-795; 83725. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Cham- 
berlain. 

Quartz, var. rock crystal. Italy. Colorless. Step cut. Size, 13 by 10 mm. Cat. 
Nos.a-796; 82771. The Lea Collection. 

Quartz, var. rock crystal. Switzerland. Colorless. Carved knob. Cat. Xos. b-752; 
50355. 

(Quartz, var. rock crystal. 31ursinsk, Russia. Colorless. Carved seal. Size, 7 cm. 
long. Cat. Nos! b-753; 51481. 

Quartz, var. rock crystal. Siberia. Colorless. Knob for drawer. Size, 61 by 19 
mm. Cat. Nos. a-797; 50356. 

(juartz, var. rock crystal. Siberia. Colorless. Carved seal. Size, 58 nun. long. 
Cat. Nos.a-798; 51480. 

Quartz, var. rock crystal. Japan. Colorless. Stei)-brilliant cut. Fifteen stones. 
Size of largest, 17 by 13 by 5 mm. ; smallest, 7 by 7 by 5.5 mm. Cat. Nos. a-801- 
815; 82777. The Lea Collection. 

(.AwrYr/r, var. rock crystal. Japan. Colorless. Carved turtle. Cat. Nos. b-754; 83339. 
The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 

Quartz, var. rock crystal. Colorless. Eighteen stones; step-brilliant and brilliant 
cuts. Size of largest, 39 by 21 by 13 mm.; smallest, 9 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos- 
a-817-834; 50368. 

Quartz, var. rock crystal. Colorless. Sixteen stones, variously cut. Size of largest, 
20 by 18 by 7 nmi. ; smallest, 10 by 5 nun. Cat. Nos. a-835-850; 82770. The Lea 
Collection. 

Quartz, var. rock crystal. Colorless. Cat. Nos. a-852; 46818. 

Quartz, var. rock crystal. Colorless. Seal. Size, 38 mm. long, base 9 mm. diam- 
eter. Cat. Nos. a-853; 46819. 

(^»ort2, var. rock crystal. Colorless. Ball. Cat. Xos. b-755; 50261. 

Quartz, var. rock crystal. Colorless. Two small intaglios. Cat. Xos. b-756-757; 
47396. Deposited by Thomas Wilson. 

Quartz, var. rock crystal. Colorless. Ball, 48 mm. diameter. Cat. X'os. c— 153; 
84262. 

Quartz, var. rose. Paris, Maine. Color, light rose; opalescent. Cabochon cut; 
elliptical girdle. Size, 35 by 26 by 11 mm. ; weight, 64.56 carats. Cat. Nos. 
a-985; 49185. 

Quartz, var. rose. Stoneham, Maine. Color, light rose; opalescent. Cabochon cut; 
elliptical girdle. Size, 23 by 17 by 7 mm.; weight, 19.35 carats. Cat. Nos. a-286; 
48485. 

Quartz, var. rose. Albany. Oxford County, Maine. Color, rose. Ball, 42 nun. 
diameter. Cat. Nos. c-450; 83538. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Cham- 
berlain. 



634 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Qttartz, var. rose. McDowell County, Xorth Carolina. Color, ])ale pink. Four 
rose-cut beads. Size, two 12 mm. diameter; two 10 mm. diameter. Cat. Nos. 
b-729-732; 84197. 

Quartz, var. rose. France. Color, pink. Brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 19 
by 15 by 11 mm.; weight, 17.98 carats. Cat. Nos. b-728; 46824. 

Quartz, var. rose. Zwiesel, Bavaria. Color, light rose. Mixed cabochon cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size, 22 by 13 by 7 mm. Cat. Nos. a-987; 50363. 

Quartz, var. rose. Zwiesel, Bavaria. Color, pale rose; opalescent. Step-brilliant 
cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 20 by 15 by 18.5 mm. Cat. Nos. a-988; 50363. 

Quartz, var. rose. Ceylon. Color, pale rose. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 
Size, 25 by 20 by 15 mm.; weight, 42.43 carats. Cat. Nos. a-989; 51138. 

Quartz, var. sardonyx. Germany. Color, red and w^hite banded. Three pieces. 
Cat. Nos. b-688^690. Gift of George F. Kunz. 

Qua )7z, var. sardonyx. Eight small intaglios. Various colors. Cat. Nos. l)-691-698; 
50070. 

Quartz, var. sardonyx. Color, reddish. Four small intaglios. Cat. Nos. b-699-702; 
48474. 

Quartz, var. sardonj'x. Small cameo. Cat. Nos. b-703; 48479. 

Quartz, var. sardonyx. Color, red. Two small elliptical discs. Cat. Nos. l:>-704-705; 
46803. 

Quartz, var. sardon\-x. Color, reil and white banded. Small intaglio. Cat. Nos. 
b-706; 84213. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Mount Pisgah, Alexander County, North Carolina. Color, pale 
smoky brown. Kose cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 68 by 51 by 25 mm.; weight, 
530.13 carats. Cat. Nos. a-873; 83734. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. L. 
Chamberlain. 

(^artz, var. smoky. Near Spring IMountain, Iredell County, North Carolina. Color, 
smoky brown. Rose; elliptical girdle. Size, 55 by 42 by 20 mm. ; weight, 277.16 
carats. Cat. Nos. a-874; 83726. The Lea Collection ; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Magnet Cove, Arkansas. Color, deep smoky brown. Rose 
cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 36 by 27 by 15 mm. ; weight, 78.05 carats. Cat. Nos. 
a-877; 50351. 

(iiuirtz, var. smoky. Pikes Peak, Colorado. Color, smoky brown. Brilliant cut; 
circular girdle. Size, 35 by 27 mm.; weight, 159.45 carats. Cat. Nos. a-881; 
50104. 

C^iartz, var. smoky. Near Florissant, Colorado. Color, smoky brown. Rose cut; 
elliptical girdle. Size, 73 by 54 by 33 mm.; weight, 766.05 carats. Cat. Nos. 
a-872; 83353. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Brazil. Color, brown. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 
25 by 13.5 mm.; weight, 43.52 carats. Cat. Nos. a-894; 47848. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Scotland. Color, yellowish brown. Step-brilliant cut; octag- 
onal girdle. Size, 22 by 13 mm.; weight, 34.20 carats. Cat. Nos. a-882; 50350. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Scotland. Color, yellowish browni. Step-brilliant cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size, 17 by 13 by 10 mm. Cat. Nos. a-883; 50350. 

(iuMTtz, var. smoky. Aberdeenshire, Scotland. Color, i)ale smoky brown. St€p- 
brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 19 by 16 by 7 mm. Cat. Nos. a-8S4; 
82766. The Lea Collection. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Aberdeenshire, Scotland. Color, pale smoky brown. Step- 
brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 14 by 12 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. a-885; 
82766. The Lea Collection. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Switzerland. Color, pale smoky l)rown. Step-brilliant cut; 
elliptical girdle. Size, 51 by 40 by 21 nmi.; weight, 261.95 carats. Cat. Nos. 
a-886: 50354. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 635 

(>iiin-lz, var. smoky. Australia. Color, ri'<l<lisli l)ro\vii. Stci>-l)rilliant cut; cllip- 
tii-al ginllc. 8ize, 45 by 34 by IS mm.; \vei.<:ht, 1()4..SS carats. Cat Nos. a-.St)3; 
50353. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Ceylmi. (\>lor, yellowish brown. Kose cut; rectangular gir- 
dle. Size, 31 by 2(1 bv IS mm.; weight, 94.05 carats. Cat. Nos. a-888; 82769. 
The Lea Collection. 

(Quartz, var. smoky. Ceylon. Color, smoky brown. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 
'Size, 39 by 30 by 15 mm.; weight, 124.98 carats. Cat. Nos. a-887; 82769. The 
Lea Collection. 

Qiuirtz, var. smoky. Ceylon. Color, smoky brown. Step-brilliant cut; rectangu- 
lar girdle. Size, 18 l)y 13 by 4 mm. Cat. Nos. a-889; 82769. The Lea 
Collection. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Ceylon. Color, pale smoky brown. Step cut; square girdle. 
Size, 27 by 12 mm. ; weight, 61.42 carats. Cat. Nos. a-890; 82769. The Lea 
Collection. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Ceylon. Color, pale brown. Step-brilliant cut; circular gir- 
dle. Size, 17 by 11 mm. Cat. Nos. a-891; 82773. The Lea Collection. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Ceylon. Color, pale brown. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 
girdle. Size, is by 10 by 6 ram. Cat. Nos. a-892; 82773. The Lea Collection. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Australia. Color, dark l)rown. Carved seal handle. Size, 
5.5 cm. long. Cat. Nos. b-727; 50270. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Color, smoky brown. Stei)-brilliant cut. Six stones. Size of 
largest, 35 by 28 by 14 mm. ; of smallest, 12 by 10 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. 2-895-900; 
50368. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Color, brown. Rose cut. Size, 49 by 35 by 22 mm. ; weight, 
235.84 carats. Cat. Nos. a-901; 82770. The Lea Collection. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Color, brown. Tetragonal prism. Size, 24 by 11 mm. Cat. 
Nos. a-902; 46807. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Color, brown. Two cuff buttons. Size, 19 mm. diameter. 
Cat. Nos. a-903-904; 50271. 

Quart:, var. smoky. Color, pale brown. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 25 
by 14 mm. Cat. Nos. a-905; 82770. The Lea Collection. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Color, brown. Step-brilliant cut. Four stones, various sizes. 
Cat. Nos. a-966-909; 82770. The Lea Collection. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Color, reddish brown. Step-brilliant cut; intaglio. Size, 18 
by 14 by 7 mm. Cat. Nos.a-910; 83533. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. 
Chamberlain. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Blount Mica, Paris, Maine. Color, greenish brown. Step- 
brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 18 by 15 by 11 mm. Cat. Nos. a-876; 50352. 

Qtutrtz, var. smoky. Stoneham, Maine. Color,-deep smoky brown. Step-brilliant 
cut; square girdle. Size, 27 by 14 mm.; weight, 61.44 carats. Cat. Nos. a-S75; 
84191. 

Quartz, var. smoky. Fairfax Court House, Virginia. Color, smoky brown. Three 
gems. Brilliant cut; 2 elliptical girdles, 1 rectangular. Sizes, 16 by 13 by 7 
mm.; 15 by 10 by 6 mm.; 11 by 8 by 5 mm. Cat. Nos. a-878-880; 47843. 

Uhodoiiite. Cummington, Massachusetts. Color, red. Flat ellipsoid. Size, 36 by 
26 by 12 mm. Cat. Nos. a-645; 46820. 

Rhodonite. Trotter mine, Franklin, New Jersey. Color, red. Cabochon cut; ellip- 
tical girdle. Size, 53 by 40 by 9 mm. Cat. Nos. a-()46; 50279. 

Rhodonltr. Selderekowa, Ural Mountains, Siberia. Color, red. Two sleeve but- 
tons. Size, 35 mm. diameter. Cat. Nos. 647-648; 51480. 

Rhodonite. Ural Mountains, Siberia. Color, red. Necklace of 47 rose-cut l)eads. 
Size, 10 mm. diameter. Cat. Nos. 2-649; 50111. 



(i3<i REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Ixho'lnjiilr. Vrn\ Mountainp, Siberia. Color, rod witli black inclusions. Ash tray. 
Size, 14.5 by 8.2 cm. Oat. Nos. a-()50; 51135. 

Rhodunite. l^ral INIountains, Siberia. Color, i-eddish. Slab. Size, 11 by 7.7 cm. 
Cat. Nos. l:>-850; 50396. 

Rock cr listed, see Quartz. 

Ruby, see Corundum. 

Rutile. Hiddenite, Alexander County, North Carolina. Color, dark red, nearly 
opaque. Brilliant cut; circular girdles. Five gems. Average size, 5 by 3 mm.; 
weight, 2.86 carats. Cat. Nos. a-601-605; 46821. (rift of J. D. Dana. 

Samarakite. Mitchell C^ounty, North Carolina. Color, Ijlack opaque. Brilliant cut; 
circular girdle. Size, 12 by 6 mm.; weight, 6.39 carats. Cat. Nos. a-588; 83744. 
The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 

Sapphire, see Corundum. 

Sardonyx, see Quartz. 

Scdinspar, see Gypsum. 

Serpentine. Newburyport, Massachusetts. Color, light and dark green. Necklace 
of 51 beads. Average size, 12 mm. diameter. Cat. Nos. a-629; 50253. 

Serpeniiiie. Newburyport, Massachusetts. Color, dark and light green. Carved 
ornament. Cat. Nos. b-923; 83341. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Cham- 
berlain. 

Serpentine, var. l)owenite. Smithfield, Rhode Island. Color, light green. Orna- 
mental piece. Cat. Nos. b-924; 46619. 

Serpentine. Cold Springs, New York. Color, light and dark green mottled. Cat. 
Nos. b-925; 12370. Gift of E. Seymour. 

Serpentine. Montville, New Jersey. Color, green and white. Cat. Nos. l>-926; 
- 47656. 

Serpentine. Near Montville, Morris County, New Jersey. Color, green. Diamond- 
shaped slab. Size, 10.8 by 7.1 by 3.5 cm. Cat. Nos. b-927; 1884S. 

Serpentine. Montville, New Jersey. Color, greenish yellow. Two large pieces. Cat. 
Nos. l>-928-929; 47656. 

Serpentine. Montville, New Jersey. Color, dark green. Cat. Nos. b-930; 47657. 

Serpentine. jNIarshall's quarry, Westchester, Pennsylvania. Color, light green with 
chromite. Prism. Cat. Nos. l:>-931 ; 49852. The Lea Collection. 

Serpentine. Marshall's quarry, Westchester, Pennsylvania. Color, greenish black. 
Rectangular block. Size, 57 by 43 by 12 mm. Cat. Nos. l)-932; 49852. The 
Lea Collection. 

Serpentine. Glenn Mill, Delaware Comity, Pennsylvania. Color, light green. C'at. 
Nos. b-933; 50920. 

Serpentine. Fritztown, Berks County, Pennsylvania. Color, yellowish green. Pol- 
ished mass. Cat. Nos. b-934; 9775. Gift of H. W. HoUenbush. 

Serpentine. Harford County, Maryland. Color, green. Polished slal). Cat. Nos. 
b-937; 50924. The Lea Collection. 

Serpentine. Harford County, Maryland. Color, dark green. Rectangular block. 
Cat. Nos. b-938; 84239. 

Serpentine. San Francisco, California. ' Color, grayish olive green. Flower orna- 
ment.' Cat. Nos. a-630; 46000. Gift of Dr. R. E. C. Stearns. 

Serpentine, (■ornwall, England. Color, dark red and green. Cat. Nos. b-939; 
13075. 

Serpentine. Lizard Point, Cornwall, England. Color, dark green. Paper weight. 
Cat. Nos. a-631; 84173. 

Serpentine. India. Color, deep green. Thin slab of williamsite. Cat. Nos. b-941; 
46574. 

Serpentine. Cliina. Color, dark green. Lotus-leaf paper weight. Cat. Nos. b-942; 
84240. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. fi.S7 

Srrpenthn'. Color, greenish gray \vith black veins. Yaso. Size, 20 em. high. Cat. 

Nos. l>-943; 84241. Gift of W. H. Abbott. 
Serpentine, var. bowenite. Color, dark olive green. Flat ellipsoid. Size, 28 by 22 

by 7 mm. Cat. Nos. a-626; 84171. Gift of George F. Kunz. 
SerpaUine, var. bowenite. Smithfield, Rhode Island. Color, pale yellow. Cabo- 

chon cut; circular girdle. Size, 9.5 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. a-627; 84172. 
Serpentine, var. williamsite. AVood's mine, Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. Color, 

bright green. Cabochon cut; cin-ular "girdle. Size, 10 by 7 mm. Cat. Nos. 

a-628; 48920. Gift of Dr. Robert H. Lamborn. 
Serpentine, var. williamsite. Texas, Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. Color, grass 

green. Small piece. Cat. Nos. b-935; 82515. The U. S. Geological Survey. 
Silver. Near Globe, Pinal County, Arizona. Nugget. Weight, 448 ounces. Cat. 

Nos. c^54; 83747. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Smithsonite. Marion County, Arkansas. Color, lemon yellow. Two specimens. 

Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 26 by 22 by 8 mm. and 18 by 12 by 5 mm. 

Cat. Nos. a-594-595; 48930. 
Smithsonite. Laurium, Greece. Color, grass green banded with darker green. 

Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 25 by 22 by 13 mm. Cat. Nos. a-596; 

45022. 
Sodalite. Litchfield, Elaine. Color, deep blue. Cabochon cut. Size, 14 by 12 by 

5 mm.; weight, 4.33 carats. Cat. Nos. a-591; 47926. 

Soddlite. Ice River, near Kicking Horse Pass, British Columbia. Color, blue with 

green. Cat. Nos. l)-854; 51153. 
Sodalite. Andes ^Mountains, Chili. Color, blue. Polished slab of rock. Size, 66 

by 36 by 7 mm. Cat. Nos. a-592; 84113. 
Spessartite, see Garnet. 
Sphalerite. Picos de Euro pa, Santander, Spain. Color, resin yellow. Brilliant cut; 

square girdle. Size, 12 by 9 mm.; weight, 12.15 carats. Cat. Nos. a-589; 50282. 
Sphalerite. Picos de Europa, Santander, Spain. Color, honey yellow. Rose cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 11 by 6.5 mm.; weight, 5.87 carats. Cat. Nos. a-590; 

50282. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, clear Anolet. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 8 by 8 by 5 

mm.; weight, 1.82 carats. Cat. Nos. 596; 50.335. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, violet. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 7 by 6 

by 4 mm.; weight, 1.15 carats. Cat. Nos. 597; 50335. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, dark violet. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 6 by 

6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.01 carats. Cat. Nos. 598; 50335. 

Spinel. Ceylon. Color, bottle green. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 9 l)y 9 by 

4 mm.; weight, 2.34 carats. Cat. No.s. 599; 50262. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, deep bluish green. Table cut; square girdle. Size, 7 by 7 

by 4 mm.; weight, 1.31 carats. Cat. Nos. 600; 50262. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, violet. Table cut; square girdle. Size, 7 by 6 by 4 mm. 

weight, 1.32 carats. Cat. Nos. 601; 502(52. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, light violet. Tal)lecut; rectangular girdle. Size, 7 by 5 by 

3 mm.; weight, 0.90 carat. Cat. Nos. 602; 50262. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, dark bluish green. Table cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

9 by 7 by 4 nun. ; weight, 2.05 carats. Cat. Nos. 608; 82897. The Lea Collection. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, deep wine red. Step-brilliant cut; ellii)tical girdle. Size, 

9 by 8 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.83 carats. Cat. Nos. 609; 82895. The Lea Collection. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, bright red. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

7.5 by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.60 carats. Cat. Nos. 610; 82897. The Lea Col- 
lection. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, bluish green. Steji-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 8 

by 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.32 carats. Cat. Nos. 611; 82897. The Lea Collection. 



638 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Spinel. Ceylon. (\)lor, dark violet. Stei)-l)rilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 7.5 

by 4 mill.; weight/ 1.42 carats. Cat. Nos. 612; 82897. The Lea Collection. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, ruby red. (!abochon cut; circular girdle. Size, 6 by 3 nun.; 

weight," 1 carat. Cat. Now. 608; 50262. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, bright red. Cabochon cut. Size, 5 liy 3 mm.; wc^ight, 

0.45 carat. Cat. Nos. 604; 50262. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, ruby red. Step-brilliant cut; .'^(juare girdle. Size, 5 by 5 

by 3 mm.; weight, 0.42 carat. Cat. Nos. 605; 83527. The Lea Collection; gift 

of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, reddish violet. Trap cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 10 by 

8 by 5 mm.; w^eight, 3.07 carats. Cat. Nos. 606; 82897. The Lea Collection. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, violet. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 9 by 

7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.77 carats. Cat. Nos. 607; 82897. The Lea Collection. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, claret. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 7 by 7 by 

4 mm.; weight, 1.45 carats. Cat. Nos. 613; 82897. The Lea Collection. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Color, yellowish green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 7 by 6 by 5 mm.; w^eight, 1.43 carats. Cat. Nos. 614; 82897. The Lea 

Collection. 
Spinel. Ceylon. Colors, green, wine-red, rose-red, violet-red, violet-blue, wine- 
brown. Step-brilliant cut. Six gems. Average size, 6 by 5 by 4 mm. ; total 

weight, 4.55 carats. Cat. Nos. 615-620; 84047. 
Spinel. East Indies. Color, deep red. Table cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 8.5 by 

7 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.74 carats. Cat. Nos. 621; 50336. 
Spinel. East Indies. Color, deep red. Eleven polished pebbles. Average sizes, 

15 by 11 by 5—8 by 6 by 4 mm.; total weight, 47.80 carats. Cat. Nos. 622-632. 
Spodumene. Brazil. Color, yellow. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 6.5 by 4 

mm.; weight, 0.94 carat. Cat. Nos. a-252; 50325. 
Spodumene. Brazil. Color, yellow. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 6.5 by 

5.5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.71 carat. Cat. Nos. a-253; 84092. 
Spodumene. Brazil. Color, greenish yellow. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 

4.5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.30 carat. Cat. Nos. a-254; 84092. 
Spodumene, var. hiddenite. Stony Point, Alexander County, North Carolina. Color, 

emerald green. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 6 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.68 

carat. Cat. Nos. a-255; 83732. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Cham- 
berlain. 
Spodumene, \ar. hiddenite. Stony Point, Alexander County, North Carolina. Color, 

emerald green. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 5.5 by 4 by 2.5 mm.; 

weight 0.36 carat. Cat. Nos. a-256; 83732. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. 

L. T. Chamberlain. 
Spodumene, var. hiddenite. Stony Point, Alexander County, North Carolina. Color, 

emerald green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 4 by 3.5 by 2 mm. ; 

weight, 0.21 carat. Cat. Nos. a-257; 83732. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. 

T. Chamberlain. 
Spodumene, var. hiddenite. Stony Point, Alexander County, North Carolina. Color, 

light green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 5.5 by 5 by 3.5 mm. ; 

weight, 0.66 carat. Cat. Nos. a-258;- 84093. 
Spodumene, var. hiddenite. Stony Point, Alexander County, North Carolina. Color, 

light green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 5.5 by 5 by 3 mni.; 

weight, 0.52 carat. Cat. Nos. a-259; 84093. 
Spodumene, var. hiddenite. Stony Point, Alexander County, North Carolina. Color, 

light green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 7 by 4 by 3 mm. ; weight. 

0.57 carat. Cat. Nos. a-260; 84093. 
Spodumene, var. hiddenite. Stony Point, Alexander County, North Carolina. Color, 

light green. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 5 by 3 mm. ; weight, 0.45 carat. 

Cat. Nos. a-261; 84093 



I 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 639 

Skddi/iiiitf, see Carbonate of lime. 
ASn)iKt<»ii', see Oligoi'lase. 

Tablet of jasper, ehalcerlony, ete. Ekaterinburg, Siberia. Cat. Nos. l)-<S2i>; 47853. 
A tablet carved to represent fruit: Red currants, carnelian; white currants, 

rock cr3'stal; blackberries, black chalcedony and serpentine; i-aspberries, rho- 
donite and amethyst; red cherries, carnelian; black cherries, black chalcedony; 

leaves, serpentine; base, jasper and black chalcedony. 
Talc. India. Color, grayish green. Small carved box. Cat. Nos. 1)-911; 84237. 
Talc. India. Grayisli green. Carving. Cat. Nos. b-912; 84237. 
Thomsonite. Grand Marais, Minnesota. Seventeen polished pieces and pebbles. 

Cat. Nos. c-433-449; 84263. 
Thulite. Arendal, Norway. Color, brick red. Two polished slabs. Cat. Nos. b-855; 

50086. 
Tiianite. Brewster, Putnam County, New York. Color, yellowish brown. Step- 
brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 13 by 12 by 8 mm.; weight, 8.30 carats. 

Cat. Nos. a-550; 51131. 
Titanite. Brewster, Putnam County, New York. Color, yellow. Brilliant cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 9.5 by 5.5 mm.; weight, 2.49 carats. Cat. Nos. a-551; 

83345. The Lea Collection; gift of Dc L. T. Chamberlain. 
Tiianite. Bridgewater, Delaware County, Pennsylvania. Color, dark greenish 

brown. Step-brilliant cut: rectangular girdle. Size, 11 by 8.5 by 6 mm.; 

weight, 4.22 carats. Cat. Nos. a-553; 49517. Gift of Dr. W. H. Forwood. 
Titanite. Zillerthal, Tyrol. Color, brownish green. Brilliant cut; rectangular gir- 
dle. Size, 12 by 10.5 by 7.5 mm.; weight, 6.02 carats. Cat. Nos. a-548; 50322. 
Titanite. Zillerthal, Tyrol. Color, greenish yellow. Step'brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 10 by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.61 carats. Cat. Nos. a-549; 84101. 
Topaz. Stoneham, Maine. Colorless. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 9 by 8.5 

by 6 mm.; 2.80 carats. Cat. Nos. a-324; 47925. 
Topaz. Baldface ^lountain, Chatham, New Hampshire. Colorle,«s. Brilliant cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 15 by 9 nmi.; weight, 12.05 carats. Cat. Nos. a-323; 51191. 
Topaz. Near Pikes Peak, Colorado. Color, cinnamon brown. Step-brilliant cut; 

rectangular girdle. Size, 19 by 14 by 6 mm.; weight, 14.27 carats. Cat. Nos. 

a-318; 82831. The Lea Collection. 
Topaz. Near Pikes Peak, Colorado. Colorless. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 17 by 12 by 10 mm.; weight, 17.34 carats. Cat. Nos. a-319; 84094. 
Topaz. Thirty miles southwest of Salt Lake City, Utah. Colorless. Brilliant cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.42 carats. Cat. Nos. a-320; 47842. 
Topaz. Thirty miles southwest of Salt Lake City, Utah. Colorless. Brilliant cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.33 carats. Cat. Nos. a-320; 47842. 
Topaz. Thirty miles southwest of Salt Lake City, I^tah. Colorless. Brilliant cut. 

Size, 5.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.87 carat. Cat. Nos. a-322; 82830. The Lea Col- 
lection. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, honey yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 13.5 by 10 by 5.5 mm.; weight, 5.80 carats. Cat. Nos. a-270; 

50284. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, honey yellow. Step-brilliant cut; square 

girdle. Size, lOby 5.5 mm. ; w'eight, 3.80 carats. Cat. Nos. a-271; 50284. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, honey yellow. Step-1)rilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 11 by 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 3.16 carats. Cat. Nos. a-272; 50284. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, honey yellow. Step-brilliant; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 11 by 6 by 3.5 jnm.; weight, 2.02 carats. Cat. Nos. a-273; 50284. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, honey yellow. Stsp-brilliant cut; square 

girdle. Size, 9 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.20 carats. Cat. Nos. a-274; 50284. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, wine yellow. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 10 by 6 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.76 carats. Cat. Nos. a-275; 50384. 



640 REPOET OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, l^MX). 

Topaz. ]\Iina,s Geraes, Brazil. Color, honey yellow. Step-brilliant cut; pear- 

shajted girdle. Size, 9 by 8 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.62 carats. Cat. Nos. a-276; 

50284. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, wine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; circular 

girdle. Size, 7.5 by 4.5 mm.; weight, 1.67 carats. Cat. Nos. a-277; 50284. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, wine yellow. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 8 by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.34 carats. Cat. Nos. a-278; 50284. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, wine yellow. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 7 by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.91 carat. Cat. Nos. a-279; 50284. 
Topaz- Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 25 

by 17 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 14.34 carats. Cat. Nos. a-280; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes. Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 13 by 11.5 by 5 mm.; weight, 6.38 carats. Cat. Nos. a-281; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, amethystine. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 14 by 10 by 5 mm.; weight, 5.51 carats. Cat. Nos. a-282; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Rose cut; pear-shaped girdle. Size, 

14 by 10 by 6 mm. ; Aveight, 5.43 carats. Cat. Nos. a-283; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, rose. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 11 by 10 by 4 mm.; weight, 3.93 carats. Cat. Nos. a-284; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. 

Size, 10 by 4.5 mm.; weight, 3.31 carats. Cat. Nos. a-285; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; pear-shaped girdle. 

Size, 16 by 6.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.84 carats. Cat. Nos. a-286; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas (iteraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 10 l)y 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 3 carats. Cat. Nos. a-287; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, wine. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 12 by 9 by 5.5 mm.; weight, 3.51 carats. Cat. Nos. a-288; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. , Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 12 by 7.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.78 carats. Cat. Nos. a-289; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 9 by 8 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.25 carats. Cat. Nos. a-290; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 10 

by 8 by 2.5 mm.; weight, 1.87 carats. Cat. Nos. a-291; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 12 by 8 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.89 carats. Cat. Nos. a-292; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Stei)-brilliant cut; pear-shaped girdle. 

Size, 15 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.53 carats. Car. Nos. a-293; 50283. 
Topaz. ]\linas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 9 by 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.72 carats. Cat. Nos. a-294; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 9 by 7.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.10 carats. Cat. Nos. a-295; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 11.5 by 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.15 carats. Cat. Nos. a-296; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 10 by 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.78 carats. Cat. Nos. a-297; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 10 by 7.5 by 4.5 mm.; weight 2.37 carats. Cat. Nos. a-298; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 10 by 7.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.23 carats. Cat. Nos. a-299; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 9 by 8 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.83 carats. Cat. Nos. a-300; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink wine. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 11 by 5.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.94 carats. Cat. Nos. a-301; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 11 by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.52 carets. Cat. Nos. a-302; 50283. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 641 

Topiiz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step cut; olliptitul ^rirdlt'. Hize, 7 1)y 

6 by 6 mm.; weight, 2.(>4 carats. Cat. Nos. a-303; 5028.3. 
Topaz. Mina,s Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 8.5 by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.63 carats. Cat. Nos. a-304; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Wine. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 7 by 4 

mm.; weight, 1.70 carats. Cat. Xos. a-305; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 8 by 6.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.45 carats. Cat. Nos. a-306; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 9 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.49 carats. Cat. Nos. a-307; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 7 

by 5 mm.; weight, 1.72 carats. Cat. Nos. a-308; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 8.5 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.43 carats. Cat. Nos. a-309; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Cat. Nos. a-310; 50283. 
Topaz. Mmas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 9 by 5.5 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.05 carats. Cat. Nos. a-311; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 7 by 5.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.27 carats. Cat. Nos. a-312; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 7.5 by 5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.99 carat. Cat. Nos. a-313; 50283. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 14 by 8 by 6.5 mm.; weight, 5.63 carats. Cat Nos. a-314; 84095. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 15 by 9 by 4 mm.; weight, 4.45 carats. Cat. Nos. a-315; 84095. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, pink. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 10 by 8 by 4 mm.; weight. 2.82 carats. Cat. Nos. a-316; 84095. 
Topaz. Minas Geraes, Brazil. Color, wine. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 8 by 6.5 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.20 carats. Cat. Nos. a-317; 84095. 
Topaz. Japan. Colorless. Brilliant cut; circular girdle; weight, 18 carats. Cat. 

Nos. c-467; 84722. 
Topaz. Takayama, Japan. Colorless. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 22 by 

16.5 mm.; weight, 49.55 carats. Cat. Nos. a-268; 84097. 
Topaz. Scotland. Color, pale blue. Step cut; square girdle. Size, 10.5 by 10 by 

5 mm.; weight, 3.44 carats. Cat. Nos. a-269; 82832. The Lea Collection. 
Topaz. Ural Mountains, Siberia. Color, aquamarine. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 31 by 28 by 20 mm.; weight, 151.67 carats. Cat. Nos. a-262; 50286. 
Topaz. Siberia. Colorless. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 19 by 11 by 7 mm. ; 

weight, 12.50 carats. Cat. Nos. a-263; 50285. 
Topaz. Siberia. Colorless. Brilliant cut; ellii)tical girdle. Size, 12 by 9 by 6 mm. ; 

weight, 4.06 carats. Cat. Nos. a-264; 50285. 
Topaz. Siberia. Color, pale blue. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 10 by 

8 by 3 mm.; weight, 2 carats. Cat. Nos. a-265; 50285. 
Topaz. Siberia. Color, pale blue. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 13 by 

9 by 7.5 mm.; weight, 7.09 carats. Cat. Nos. a-266; 84096. 
Topaz. Siberia. Colorless. Brilliantcut; circulargirdle. Size, 8 by 6mm. ; weight, 

2.57 carats. Cat. Nos. a-267; 84096. 
Tourmaline. Mount Mica, Paris, Maine. Color, dark green. Brilliant cut; square 

girdle. Size, 23-22.8 by 17 mm.; weight, 57.03 carats. Cat. Nos. a-156; 83739. 

The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Tourmaline. Mount Mica, Paris, Maine. Color, wine red. Brilliant cut; circular 

girdle. Size, 18 by 12 mm.; weight, 17.94 carats. Cat Nos. a-157; 83536. The 

Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 



642 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

ToiiriiKili)H'. ^rouiit Mica, Paris, Maine. Color, slierry. lirilliant cut; circular 

girdle. Si/.i', 17 by 11 mm.; weight, 1().3] carats. Cat. Nos. a-158; 8353H. The 

Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. CoU)r, deep blue. Brilliant cut; circi^lar girdle. Size, 

11.5 by 6.5 mm.; weight, 4.35 carats. Cat. Nos. a-159; 51192. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, light green. Step cut; square girdle. Size, 12 

by 8 nun.; weight, 7.74 carats. Cat. Nos. a-160; 51243. 
TourmaUiH'. Paris, Maine. Color, violet red. Step cut; square girdle. Size, 10.05 

by 10 by 6 mm.; weight, 4.01 carats. Cat. Nos. a-161; 51243. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, violet red. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 12 by 10 by 6 mm.; weight, 4.36 carats. Cat. Nos. a-162; 51253. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, bluish green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 11 by 9 by 6 mm.; weight, 4.78 carats. Cat. Nos. a-163; 51243. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, pale green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

10.5 by 7 by 4.5 mm.; weight, 2.36 carats. Cat. Nos. a-164; 51243. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, rose red. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 8.5 by 6.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.46 carats. Cat. Nos. a-165; 51253. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, "dark blue. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

8 by 6 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.03 carats. Cat. Nos. a-166; 51243. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, faint bluish. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular gir- 
dle. Size, 6.5 by 5.5 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.07 carats. Cat. Nos. a-167; 51243. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, lavender blue. Brilliant cut; square girdle. 

Size, 6 by 5 mm.; Aveight, 1.20 carats. Cat. Nos. a-168; 51243. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, black, opaque. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 6 by 4 by 3 mm. ; weight, 0.53 carat. Cat. Nos. a-169; 51243. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Particolored, half green, half colorless. Step-brilliant 

cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 13 by 9 by 4.5 mm.; weight, 3.32 carats. Cat. 

Nos. a-170; 83347. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Tourmaline. Pari.s, Maine. Particolored, half rose, half wine. Step cut; square 

girdle. Size, 9 by 8.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 2.22 carats. Cat. Nos. a-171 ; 83347. 

The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Particolored, rose and green. Step-brilliant cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, 19 by 11 by 7 mm.; weight, 11.67 carats. Cat. Nos. a-172; 

50305. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, light green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

16 by 10 by 6 mm.; weight, 7.50 carats. Cat. Nos. a-173; 50305. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, bluish green. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 12 by 6 mm.; weight, 5.41 carats. Cat. Nos. a-174; 50305. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, light green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

11 by 9 by 6 nun.; weight, 3.28 carats. Cat. Nos. a-175; 50305. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, light green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

10.5 by 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 3.28 carats. Cat. Nos. a-176; 50305. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, ruby red. Step cut; square girdle. Size, 9.5 by 4 

mm. ; weight, 2.66 carats. Cat. Nos. a-177; 50305. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, pale green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

11 by 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 3.01 carats. Cat. Nos. a-178; 50305. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, pale wine. Step cut; square girdle. Size, 9 by 

4 mm.; weiglit, 2.23 carats. Cat. Nos. a-179; 50305. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, dark blue. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

6.5 by 5 Ijy 2.5 mm. ; weight, 0.63 carat. Cat. Nos. a-180; 50305. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Colorless. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 8 by 6 

mm.; weight, 2.03 carats. Cat. Nos. a-181; 50304. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Colorless. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

8 by 5.5 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.03 carats. Cat. Nos. a-182; 50304. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS, (U3 

ToimiHtJine. Paris, Elaine. Color, pale pink. Brilliant cut; circular ijinlU'. Size, 

6.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.07 carats. Cat. Nos. a-183; 50304. 
Tounmdijie. Paris, Maine. Color, green. Step cut; square girdle. Size, 8 by 3 

mm.; weight, 0.93 carat. Cat. Nos. a-184; 50304. 
TourmuUnc. Paris, Maine. Colorless. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

8 by 5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.82 carat. Cat. Nos. a-185; 50304. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, deep green. Step cut; square girdle. Size, 5.5 

by 3 mm.; weight, 0.64 carat. Cat. Nos. a-186; 50304. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Colorless. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

6.5 by 4.5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.62 carat. Cat. Nos. a-187; 50304. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Colorless. Step-brilliant cut ; rectangular girdle. Size, 

7 by 5 by 3 mm. ; weight 0.71 carat. Cat. Nos. a-188; 50304. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Colorless. Step-brilliant cut: rectangular girdle. Size, 

6 by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.82 carat. Cat. Nos. a-189; 50305. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, light green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

6 by 4 by 2.5 mm.; weight, 0.49 carat. Cat. Nos. a-190; 50304. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, pale green. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 

6 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.52 carat. Cat. Nos.- a-191; 50304. 

Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, bright green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

7 by 3 by 2 mm.; weight, 0.38 carat. Cat. Nos. a-192; 50304. 

Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Colorless. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 4.5 by 4 

mm.; weight, 0.40 carat. Cat. Nos. a-193; 50304. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, apple green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 6 by 5 by 3 ram.; weight, 0.65 carat. Cat. Nos. a-194; 50304. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, light green. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 5.5 by 5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.61 carat. Cat. Nos. a-195; 84090. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, deep bluish green. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. 

Size, 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.65 carat. Cat. Nos. a-196; 84090. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, deep green. Step cut; square girdle. Size, 5 by 

3 mm.; weight, 0.50 carat. Cat. Nos. a-197; 84090. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, bottle green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

6 by 5 by 3 mm.; weight, 0.60 carat. Cat. Nos. a-198; 84090. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, yellowish green. Step-brilliant i-ut; triangular 

girdle. Size, 5 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.72 carat. Cat. Nos. a-199; 84090. 
Tourmaline. Paris, Maine. Color, large stone smoky white;^ small stone grass green, 

cut from opposite extremities of the same crystal. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. 

Sizes, 13 by 10 mm. and 5 l)y 4 nmi.; weights, 8.599 carats and 0.852 carat. 

Cat. Nos. c-454-455; 84269. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. L. T. Chamberlain. 
Tourmaline. Auburn, Elaine. Color, pale blue. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 12 by 6.5 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.71 carats. Cat. Nos. a-200; 51190. 
Tourmaline. Auburn, Maine. Color, Ijluish green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 8 by 7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.75 carats. Cat. Nos. a-201; 51190. 
Tourmaline. Auburn, Maine. Color, dark green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 7 by 6 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.58 carats. Cat. Nos. a-202; 51190. 
Tourmaline. Auburn, Maine. Colorless. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

8 by 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.53 carats. Cat. Nos. a-203; 51190. 

Tourmaline. Auburn, IMaine. Color, green. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 
8 by 6 by 5 mm; weight, 1.70 carats. Cat. Nos. a-204; 51190. 

Tourmaline. Auburn, ISIaine. Color, pale blue. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 
Size, 7 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.05 carats. Cat. Nos. a-205; 51190. 

Tourmaline. Auburn, Maine. Color, light green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 
girdle. Size, 7 by 5 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.19 carats. Cat. Nos. a-206; 51190. 

Tourmaline. Auburn, Maine. Color, bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; square gir- 
dle. Size, 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.31 carats. Cat. Nos. a-207; 51190. 



644 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Toxriii'ilhii'. Auburn, Maine. Color, pak- bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; rectan- 
gular girdle. Size, G.5 by 5.5 by 5 nun.; weight, 1.09 carats. Cat. Nos. a-208; 

51190. 
Tourmaline. Auburn, Maine. Color, dark green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 6 by 5 by 4 nun.; weight, 0.71 carat. Cat. Nos. a-209; 51190. 
Tourmaliiii'. Near Rock Landing, Middlesex County, Connec;ticut. Color, bluish 

green. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 6.5 by 5 mm.; weight, 0.97 carat. 

Cat. Nos. a-210; 83604. 
Tonrmalinr. Near Rock Landing, Middlesex County, Connecticut. Color, bluish 

green. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 6.5 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.83 carat. 

Cat. Nos. a-211; 83604. 
TourmaUiKk Near Rock Landing, Middlesex County, Connecticut. Color, ))luish 

green. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.75 t'arat. 

Cat. Nos. a-212; 83604. 
Tourindliiii'. Dekalb, St. Lawrence County, New York. Color, pale yellow. Step- 
brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 11.5 by 8 by (5 mm.; weight, 5.54 carats. 

Cat. Nos. a-213; 50306. 
TourinaUnr. Macomb, Essex C(junty, New York. Color, brown. Brilliant cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 0.85 carat. Cat. Nos. a-214; 49155. 
Tourmaline. Macond), Essex County, New York. Color, brown. Brilliant cut; 

circular girdle. Size, 7 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.18 carats. Cat. Nos. a-215; 49155. 
Tourmaline. Brazil. Color, greenish yellow. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 15 by 13 by 8 mm.; weight, 8.96 carats. Cat. Nos. a-216; 51392. 
Tourmaline. Brazil. Color, greenish brown. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 10 by 9 by 6 mm.; 3.73 carats. Cat. Nos. a-217; 50100. 
Tourmaline. Brazil. Color, light yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size 

8 by 7.5 by 6 nun.; weight, 2.21 carats. Cat. Nos. a-218; 50100. 
Tourmaline. Brazil. Color, dark green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 14.5 

by 13 by 6 mm.; weight, 3.50 carats. Cat. Nos. a-219; 50307. 
Tourmaline. Brazil. Color, dark bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 14.5 l)y 11 by 4 mm.; weight, 4.79 carats. Cat. Nos. a-220; 50307. 
Tourmaline. Brazil. Color, light claret. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

11.5 by 9 by 7.5 mm.; weight, 5.06 carats. Cat. Nos. a-221; 50307. 
Tourmaline. Brazil. Color, dark bluish green. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. 

Size, 9 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.32 carats. Cat. Nos. a-222; 50307. 
Tourmaline. Brazil. Color, dark ])luish green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular 

girdle. Size, 10 l)y 8 by 4.5 ]nm.; weight, 2.72 carats. Cat. Nos. a-223; 50307. 
Tourmaline. Brazil. Color, dark green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 9 by 7 by 5 l)y 3 mm.; weight, 1.46 carats. Cat. Nos. a-224; 50307. 
Tourmaline. Brazil. Color, red and green in concentric bands. Cabochon cut; 

triangular girdle. Size, 28 bj^ 10 mm.; weight, 58.53 carats. Cat. Nos. a-225; 

50388. 
Tourmaline. Brazil. Color, fine claret. Brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 14 by 

9.5 by () mm.; weight, 5.03 carats. Cat. Nos. a-226; 84091. 
Tourmaline. Brazil. Color, apple green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 9 by 

6 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.38 carats. Cat. Nos. a-227; 84091. 
Tourmaline. Color, grass green. Step cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 9 by 6 by 3 

mm.; weight, 1.32 carats. Cat. Nos. a-228; 84091. 
Tourmaline. Brazil. Color, dark green. Step-cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 7.5 by 

6.5 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.10 carats. Cat. Nos. a-229; 84091. 
Tourmaline. Brazil. Color, dark green. Step-cut; rectangular girdle. Four long 

gems. Average size, 15 by 4 by 3 mm. ; weight, 4.49 carats. Cat. Nos. a-230- 

233; 84091, 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 645 

ToKDixiUne. Brazil. Three fimall gems. Colors, 1 liglit green, 1 dark blue, 1 elaret. 

One brilliant, 2 step-])rilliant cut. Size, •"> by o by .'5 mm. Cat. Nos. a-234-236; 

84091. 
Touriiudhie. Isle of Elba. Coli)r, rose and yellowish green. Step-brilliant cut; 

rectangular girdle. Size, 16.5 by 9.5 by 8 mm. ; weight, 9.60 carats. Cat. Nos. 

a-251; 50099. 
TounnaUne. Siberia. Color, light claret. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

9 by 7.5 1)y 6 mm.; weight, 2.44 carats. Cat. Nos. a-247; 51188. 
lunniKtliiie. Siberia. Color, light claret. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

9 by 7 r)y 6 mm.; weight, 2.38 carats. Cat. Nos. a-248; 51188. 

Tourmaline. Siberia. Color, claret. Step-brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 })y 

Gmm.; weight, 1.56 carats. Cat. Nos. a-249; 51188. 
TounnaUne. Siberia. Color, ruby red. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 

5 by 3.5 mm.; weight, 0.54 carat. Cat. Nos. a-250; 51188. 
TourmaUne. Ceylon. Color, grass green. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

15 by 12 by 6.5 mm.; weight, 12.22 carats. Cat. Nos. a-237; 82811. The Lea 

Collection. 
Tourmalme. Ceylon. Color, brown. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 

10 by 9 by 6 mm.; weight, 3.06 carats. Cat. Nos. a-238; 82811. The Lea Col- 
lection. 

Tourmaline. Ceylon. Color, brown. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 9 by 

5 mm.; weight, 2.86 carats. Cat. Nos. a-239; 82811. The Lea Collection. 
Tourmaline. Ceylon. Color, brown. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

7.5 by 7 by 5 nun.; weight, 1.86 carats. Cat. Nos. a-240; 82811. The Lea 

Collection. 
Tourmaline. Ceylon. Color, resin yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 8.5 by 6 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.60 carats. Cat. Nos. a-241; 83811. The Lea 

Collection. 
Tourmaline. Ceylon. Color, reddish brown. Step-brilliaut cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 8 by 6 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.03 carats. Cat. Nos. a-242; 82811. The Lea 

Collection. 
Tourmaliiu. Ceylon. Color, resin yellow. Step-brilliant cut; eliii)tical girdle. 

Size, 6 by 5 by 5 mm.; weight, 0.80 carat. Cat. Nos. a-243; 82811. The Lea 

Collection. 
Tourmaline. Ceylon. Color, honey yellow. Step-brilliant cut. Three small gems; 

same size. Total weight, 1.41 carats. Cat. Nos. a-244-246; 82811. The Lea 

Collection. 
Turquoise. Los Cerillos, New ^Mexico. Color, blue green. Cabochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 23 by 18 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. a-652; 48756. Gift of Robt. H. 

Lamborn. 
Turquoise. Los Cerillos, New Mexico. Color, apple green. Cabochon cut; elliptical 

girdle. Size, 24 by 16 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. a-653; 48756. Gift of Rol)t. H. 

Lamborn. 
Turquoise. Los Cerillos, New Mexico. Color, blue green. Arrowhead mounted as 

scarf pin. Size, 22 by 10 mm. Cat. Nos. a-654; 50255. 
Turquoise. Cerillos Mountains, 6 miles from Los Cerillos, New Mexica. Color, blue 

green. Seven gems. Cabochon cut; 2 circular, 5 ellipital girdles. Average 

size, 15 by 10 by 6 mm. Cat. Nos. a-655-661; 51946. Gift of the American 

Turquoise Company, through President John R. Andrews. 
Variscite. Lewiston, Utah. Color, green. Polished slab. Size, 13 by 9 cm. Cat. 

Nos. b-881; 83765. 
Variscite. Lewiston, Utah. Color, green. Circular piece. Size, 10 cm. diameter. 

Cat. Nos. l->-882; 84233. 



646 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Variscite. Candelaria, Nevada. Color, l^right jtreen witli dark spots. Tabular cut; 

elliptical girdle. Cat. Nos. a-fil3; 81156. Gift of Mack Weber. 
Vcsuvianitc. Color, greenish yellow. Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 5 by 4 

mm.; weight, 0.51 carat. Cat. Nos. a-570; 84104. 
Wcrncrite. Templeton, Quebec, Canada; Color, yellow. C'abochon cut. Size, 30 

by 22 by 11 nun. Cat. Nos. a-593; 83352. The Lea Collection; gift of Dr. 

L. T. Chamberlain. 
Willanite. Taylor Zinc Mine, Franklin, New Jersey. Color, light greenish yellow. 

Brilliant cut; circular girdle. Three small gems; total Aveight, 0.78 carat. Cat. 

Nos. a-598-600; 84115. 
William-site, see Serpentine. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, dark bottle green. Step-ljrilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 18 by 17 by 7 mm.; weight, 20.70 carats. Cat. Nos. a-325; 8.3555. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Cf)lor, bottle green. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 

9 by 7.5 by 5 mm.; weight, 1.83 carats. Cat. Nos. a-326; 51189. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, dark green. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 7 by 5 

. mm.; weight, 0.97 carat. Cat. Nos. a-327; 51189. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 10 l)y 8 mm.; weight, 4.20 

carats. Cat. Nos. a-328; 47311. Gift of C. S. Bement. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, light blue. Brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 9 by 7 

by 5 mm.; weight, 2.34 carats. Cat. Nos. a-329; 47311. Gift of (!. S. Bement. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, yellowish brown. Step-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 11 by 8 by 5 mm.; weight, 4.27 carats. Cat. Nos. a-330; 51193. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, yellowish green. Ste})-brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. 

Size, 10 by 8 by 7 nun.; weight, 3.68 carats. Cat. Nos. a-331; 51193. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, brownish yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 7 by 6 by 3 mm.; weight, 1.38 carats. Cat. Nos. a-322; 51193. 
ZArcon. Ceylon. Color, greenish brown. Rose cut; circular girdle. Size, 12 by 4 

mm., weight, 4.86 carats. Cat. Nos. a-333; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, pale greenish yellow. Rose cut; circular girdle. Size, 11 

by 5 mm.; weight, 4.73 carats. Cat. Nos. a-334; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, pale greenish yellow. Rose cut; circular girdle. Size, 11 

by 4 mm.; weight, 4.50 carats. Cat. Nos. a-335, 50333. 
Zircon,. Ceylon. Color, pale greenish yellow. Rose cut; circular girdle. Size, 11 

by 4 mm.; weight, 4.23 carats. Cat. Nos. a 336; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, brownish yellow. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 9 by 8 by 7 mm.; weight, 4.96 carats. Cat. Nos. a-337; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, brownish green. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. 

Size, 11 by 7.5 by 5 mm.; weight, 2.98 carats. Cat. Nos. a-338; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, sherry. Step-brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 8.5 by 

8 by 5.5 mm.; weight, 3.16 carats. Cat. Nos. a-339; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, dark brown. Brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 11 by 

7.5 by 3 mm.; weight, 2.28 carats. Cat. Nos. a-340; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Colorless. Rose cut; oval girdle. Size, 9 by 6.5 by 4 mm. ; weight, 

1.88 carats. Cat. Nos. a-341; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Colorless. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 8 by 7 by 5 mm.; 

weight, 1.89 carats. Cat. Nos. a-342; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, green. Step-brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 by 4 

mm.; weight, 1.56 carats. Cat. Nos. a-342; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, ligiit green. Brilliant cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 7.5 by 

7 by 4 mm.; weight, 1.35 carats. Cat. Nos. a-344; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, pale blue. Step-brilliant cut, rectangular girdle. Size, 

7 by 6 by 4 nun.; weight, 1.42 carats. Cat. Nos. a-345; 50333. 



CATALCKIUK «)F GEMS. 647 

Zhron. Ceylon. Color, pale l)liu'. St('i)-I)rilliant cut; recta ii}i:nlar ^rirdlc Size, 

7 by 5.5 by 4 mm.; weigbt, 1.40 rarats. C-at. Nos. a-34(); 50.Soo. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, violet ])rown. Brilliant cut; elliptical jjirdle. Size, SHjy 5.5 

by 3 nmi.; weight 1.29 carats. Cat. Nos. a-347; 50338. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, bottle green. Brilliant cut; rectangnlar girdle. Size, (i.5 

by 5 by 4 mm.; weight 1.24 carats. Cat. Nos. a-34S; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, yellow. Brilliant cut; rectangular girdle. Size, 7 by 6 by 

4 mm.; weight, 1.18 carats. Cat. Nos. a-349; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, brown. Step-brilliant cut; circular girdle. Size, 7 by 4.5 

mm.; weight, 1.09 carats. Cat. Nos. a-350; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, yellow. Step-brilliant cut; square girdle. Size, 6 bj'5 ])y 

3 mm.; weight, 0.96 carat. Cat. Nos. a-351; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, greenish yellow. Step cut; elliptical girdle. Size 7 by 4 by 

2 mm.; weight, 0.69 carat. Cat. Nos. a-352; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, bluish and yellowish. Rose cut; circular girdle. Thirteen 

gems about equal in size; 5 by 3 mm.; total weight, 6.64 carats. Cat. Nos. 

a-353-365; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, l)luish and yellowish. Rose cut; circular girdle. Eighty- 
three small gems. Average size, 3 by 2 mm.; total weight, 11.69 carats. Cat. 

Nos. a-366-448; 50333. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Color, light bottle green. Rose cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 15 by 

10by5.5mm.; weight, 6. 70 carats. Cat. Nos. a-449; 82913. The Lea Collection. 
Zircon. Ceylon. Colorless. Ninety-eight minute gems of equal size. Brilliant cut; 

circular girdle; total weight, 3.24 carats. Cat. Nos. a-450-547; 82913. The 

Lea Collection. 
Zoisite. Norway. Color, red. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 22 by 19 by 

13 mm.; weight, 43.17 carats. Cat. Nos. a-582; 84112. 
Zoisite. Norway. Color, red. Cabochon cut; elliptical girdle. Size, 1 7 by 13 by 5 

mm.; weight, 8.26 carats Cat. Nos. a-583; 84112. 

NAT MUS 1900 M 



A BIBL.IOGRAPHY. 

Abdalaziz (Ahmed Ben). Treatise on jt'wels. 
Abex Ezra (Rabbi). Commentarinin in Decaloguni. 

Basel (Basle), 1527. 
Abich (H.). De Spinello. 

Berolini (Berlin), 1831. 
Adi.eu (C, and Casanowicz). Prec'iou.s stones of the Bible. 

[In Biblical Antiquities, Report, U. S. National Mu.seiun. 1896, p. 943.] 
Agostini (L.). Gemmpe et sculptune antiquae. 

Franequerae (Franecker), 1699. 
Agricola (G.). De ortu et causis subterraneorum de natura corum qute effluunt ex 
Terra. 

Basel (Basle), 1558. 
A<iKirPA (H. C. ). Philosophie occulte. 

[Translated by Levasseur.] La Haye (The Hague), 1655. 

Contains material relating to the mystical properties of gems. 
Ala.mus ab Ixsulis (Alain de Lisle). Dicta alani, etc. 

Lugduni-Batavorum (Leyden), 1599. 

An alchemical treatise containing material relating to the mystical properties 
of gems. Alamus ab Insulis, 1). 1114, d. 1202, was the earliest Flemish alchemist. 
Albertus Magnus. Die mineralibus. 

[In his opera, v. II.] Lugdiini (Leyden), 1651. 
. De Vertutibus herl)arum, lapidum animalum, etc. 

Various editions. 
-. Les admirable secrets d' Albert le grand, etc. 

Lyon, 1758. 

Contains extracts from the works of Albertus Magnus, relating to the magical 
and medicinal properties of gems. 
Alcot (T.). Gems, talismans, and guardians. 

New York, 1886. 
Aknaldus de Villanova. Chymische schriften, etc. 

[Translated by Johannem Hippdamum.] Wien (Vienna), 1742. 

See also: Hermetischer Rosenkranz, Pretiosa ^largarita, ^langet, Theatrum 
Chemicum, etc. The several writings of this alchemi.-^t (also called Villano- 
vanus, Arnald Bachuone, A. de Villeneuve, A. de Villnevee, and Arnaldus Novi- 
comensis) contain much concerning the occult, medicinal, and other properties 
of gems. 
Arnobio (Cleaxdre). De Tesoro delle Gioie, trattato maraviglioso. 

Venit. (Venice), 1602. 
Athanjeus. Deiphriosophisb* [Banquetdes Philosophes] translated by Dalechamp. 

Paris, 1873. 
Aubrey (J.). Miscellanies. 

London, 1857. 

Contains an account of the use of the beryl in divination. 
Axdrada (M. d'). An account of the diamonds of Brezil. 

[In Nicholson's Journal, I, 1797, 24.] 

649 



650 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Antidotahio Die FUA I). I)'K. 

Napoli (Naples), 16H9. 

A treatise on pharmacy, containinj; a few accounts of the virtues of gems. 
Argexvili.e. Traite (le rOryctologie. 

Pariy, 1740. 
Argenville (A. J. I). 1)'). De I'Histcjrie Naturelle eclaircie dans deux de ses 
parties principales: la Lithologie et la Conchologie. 

Paris, 1742. 
Aristotle. His works, especialh' the "Meteorology" and "AVonderful tilings 
heard of." 

Aristotle was bom about 384 B. C, and died about 322 B. C. 
. Lapidarius. 

[De novo Gryeco translatus, Lucas Brandis.] Regia Mersbourg (Merseburg), 
1473. 
AviCENNA (ABou-AiJ-ALnussEiN-BEN-ADLOULAii). Cauoues Medicinse. 

[Lat. reddit.] Ven. (Venice), 1843. 

Contains material relating to the medicinal and magical virtues of gems. 
Babington (Charles). A systematic arrangement of minerals, their chemical, 
physical, and external characters. 

London, 1795. 
Bacci (Andr.e). Le XII Pietre preziose. 

Roma (Rome), 1587. 
. De Gemniis et Lapidibus jiretiosis, tractatus ex Ital. Lingua Lat. red. 

Francof. (Frankfurt), 1605. 
. De Gemmis ae Lapidibus pretiosis in 8. Scriptura. 

Roma (Rome), 1577; 8°, Franc. (Frankfurt), 1628. 
Bacon (Roger). Opera Quaedam hactenus inedita. 

[Edited by J. S. Brewer.] London, 1859. 

The appendix — Epistola . . . de secretis operibus artis et natura? — contains 
some material relating to the magical and alchemical virtues of certain gems. 
Baxl ( V. ) . On the occurrence of diamonds in India. 

[In Geology of India, 3 vols., pp. 1-50, 1881.] 
. On the mode of occurrence and distribution of diamonds in India. 

[In Proc. R. Dublin Soc, II, p. 551; also Jour. R. Geol. Soc. Ireland, VI, j). 10.] 
. On the geology of the Mahanadi basin and its vicinity. 

[In Records of the Geological Survey of India, X, p. 167: map.] 
. A manual of the geology of India. 

Calcutta, 1881. 

■ . On the identification of certain diamond mines in India which were known 

and worked by the ancients, especially those visited by Tavernier. With 
a note on the history of the Koh-i-nur. 

[In Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal, L, 1881, p. 31; Report British 
Association for 1882, p. 625; and Nature, XXIII, p. 490, 1882.] 
. On the diamonds, etc., of the Sand)alpiir district. 

[In Records of the Geological Survey of India, X, p. 186: map.] 
Bapst (G. ). Les joyaux de la couronne. 

[In Reveu des Deux Mondes, 1886, p. 861.] 
Barbot (Ch.). Traite complet des pierres pr^cieused. 

Paris, 1858. 
Barrera (Mme. de). Gems and jewels. 

London, 1860, 
Bauer (Max). Edelsteui kunde. 

Leipzig, 1896. 
Baumer (J. W. ). Historia Naturalias La])idum i)reciosorum omnium, etc. 

Franc. (Frankfurt), 1771. 



OATALOOUE OF GEMS. ()51 

Baumer (J. W.). Naturjrescliicto aller Edelstein, wic auch dcr Knlc and Stcinc, so 
l)i-her zur artziiei nind gel)ran('lit worden. Ans dciii liatein von Karl, 
Freih. von Meidinjrer. i 

Wien (Vienna), 1774. 
BAT'MnAUER (E. H. von). Diamond.s. 

[In Ann. Phys. Chem., 2 ser., I, 1877, p. 4fi2.] 
REAun (C. P.). Traite (U's ]>i(MTe.< i>recien8es. 

Paris, 1808. 
BEriiAi Ben Aschar. Biur al Hattorah — Exj^osition (if tho Law of Mosos, a oom- 
nientary on Exodus xxviii, 17-20. 

A. M. 5207 (A. D. 1447). 

Contains an account of the virtues and properties of gems. 
Brciier (Johann Joachim). Physica Subterranea. 

Lipsiae (Leipzig), 1739. An alchemical work. 
Beck (R. ). Die diamantenlager stiltte von Newland in Griqualand West. 

[In Zeits. fur Prakt. Geol., 1898, p. 158.] 
Behrens (Th. H.). Sur la cristallisation du diamant. 

[In Arch. Neerl., XVI, p. 376, 1881.] 
Bekkerheim (Karl). Krystallographie des Mineralreichs. 

Wien (Vienna), 1793. 
Belleaxj (Ren'e). Les amours et nouveaux echanges des pierres precieuses. 

Paris, 1576. 
Bellerman (J. J.). Die Urim und Thummim. 

Berlin, 1824. 
Bexiam (]Mutaphia). ,'^ententiis sacro niedicis. 

Hamburg, 1640. 

Contains material relating to the astrological virtues of gems. 
BfiRciUEN (Robert de) . Les ilerveilles des Indes Orientales et Occidentales, on nou- 
veau. Traite des Pierres precieuses, et des Perles. 

Paris, 1661. 
Besondere Geheimnisse eines wahren Adepti von der Alchymie, etc. 

Dresden, 1757. 

An alchemical treatise. 
Beumemberger (J. G. ). Der Volkomene Juwelier. 

Weimar, 1828. 
Bielhe (von). Ueber die Bernstein-(Tr;ibereien in Hinter Pommern. 

Berlin, 1802. 
Billing (A.). Science of gems, coins, and medals. 

New York, 1875. 
BiRDwooD (G. C. M.). Industrial arts of India. 

Vol. 2, pp. 17-32, 1881. 
Bleasdale (J. J.). Gems and precious stones found in Victoria. 

[In an essay in Official Record, Inter-Colonial Exhibition, Melbourne, 1867.] 
Blum (J. R. ). Verzeichniss der geschnitten Steine in dem K5nigl. Museum zu 
Berlin. 

Berlin, 1827. 

. Lithurgik, oder mineralien und Felsarten nach ihrer Anwendnng in Ockon., 

artist, und Technischer Hinsicht systematische abgehandelt. 

Stutgart, 1840. 
Blum (R. ). Die Schmucksteine. 

Heidelberg, 1828. 
. Taschenbuch der Edelsteinkunde. 

Stutgart, 1840. 
Blumenberg. Dissertatio Medica t\v Su<'tino. 

Jena, 1682. 



652 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

lli.r.MUoK (J. C). Lehrlmcli <\vr Utliur^ik. 

Frankfurt, ISL'l'. 
BoETirs (Ansklmis). Tractatus de Lajiidilms. 

BoLXEHT ( E. ). Aurora (;hyinica, or a rational way of preparing animals, vegetables, 
and minerals for a ])liysii'al use; by which preparations they are made most etiica- 
eions, safe, i)leasant medicines for the preservation and restoration of the life of 
man. 

London, 1672. 
BoNDARY (Jean de la Taille de). Blason des Pierres precieuses. 
BooKE of the Thinges that are brought from the West Indies. 
[English translation, 1580.] 1574. 
Contains an account of the virtues of the bloodstone. 
Boot (Anselmus Boetus de). Le parfaict joaillier, on histoire des Pierreries, de 
nouveau enrichi de belles annotations par Andre Toll. 
[Translated from Latin by J. Bachou] Lyon, 164-4. 
Boot (B. de). Lap. CTemmarum et Lapidum Historia. 
Jena, 1647. 

The first edition published at Jena in 1609; the second enlarged by A. Toll, 
Lngduni Bat. [Leyden], 1636, cHintains much concerning the mystical and 
medicinal properties of gems. 
Boot (Anselmus Boetius de). Gemmarum et Lapidum Historia. 

Hanover, 1690. 
Bordeaux (A.). Les mines de I'Afrique dii 8ud. 

Paris, 1898. 
BoRX (Baron Inigo). Schnei'kensteine, oder die Siichsischen Topasfelsen. 

Prag, 1776. 
BouRNON (CoMTE de) . An analytical description of the crystalline forms of corunduu) 
from the East Indies and China. 

[In Phil. Trans.: Abr., XVIII, p. 368, 1798.] 

. Description of the corundum stone, and it* varieties, commonly known as 

oriental ruljy, sapphire, etc. 

[In Phii. Trans., 1801, p. 223.] 

. A des(!riptive catalogue of diamonds in the cabinet of Sir Abraham Hume. 

London, 1815. 
Boittan (M.E. ). Diamant. 

[In Fremy's Encyclopedie Chimique.] 

. Le Diamant. 

Paris, 1886. 

Contains a very full bi})liographj\ 
Bovle (Robert). Experiments and considerations upon color, with considerations 
on a diamond that shines in the dark. 
London, 1663. 

. Es.say about the origin and virtues of gems. 

[In his'works, v. Ill, 1772.] 

. Exercitatio de origine et viribus gemmarum. 

Ix)ndon, 1673. 

. An essay about the origin and virtues of gems, with some conjectures about 

the consistence of the matter of precious stones. 
London, 1672. 
[Another edition in 1673.] 
Brard (C. P.) . Traite des Pierres Precieuses, des Porphyres, Granits et autres Roches 
l)ropres a recevoir le jjoli. 1808. 

. ]\Iincralogie ai)pliquee aux arts. 

Paris, 1821. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 653 

British Musei'm. Catalofrne oi Gems in the British Museum ( Department of Greek 
and Roman Anti(|uities). 

1888. 
Bkhten (Emma H.). Art Magie; or mundane, sulimundane. and supermundane 
sjnritism. 

Contains aecounts of inystieal properties of gems. 
Bhongxiart (Alexandre). Traite de mineralogie, avec ai>i)lication aux arts. 

Paris, 1807. 
Bkown' (C B. and J. W. Jini)). The rubies of Burma. 

[In Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. London, CLXXXVII, pp. 151-228.] 

A very elaborate and complete account of the physical features, geology, and 
geographical distri])ution of the ruby-bearing rocks of the district. 
Brickmaxx (U. F. B. ). Abhandlung von Edelsteinen. 

Braunschweig (Brunswick), 1757-73. 
— . A treatise on preciou.s stones. 

1775. 
. Gesammelte und eigene Beitnlge zu seiner Al>handlung von Edelsteinen. 

Braunschweig (Brunswick), 1778. 

BucHoz ( ). Les Dons merveilleux et diversement colories de la Nature dans le 

Regne ^Mineral. 

Paris, 1782. 
BiEFUM ( W. A.). The tears of the Heliades or amber as a gem. 

New York, 1900. 
Birch (A.). Handbuch fi'ir Juweliere. 

"Weimar, 1834. 
Bfrxham (8. M.). Precious stones. 

Boston, 188G. 
Burton (R. F. ). Gold and diamond mines. 

[In his Explorations of the Highlands of Brazil, 186fl.] 
Cadet (LeJeune). ^lemoire sur les Jaspes et autres Pierres Precieuses de I'ile de 
Corse. 

Bastia, 1785. 
Caesalpixus (Andreas). De metallicis Libri tres. 

Rom. (Rome) 149tj. 
Cahagxet (L. a.) Magie magnetique. 

Paris, 1838. 

A s])iritualistic work containing material relating to tlie oc<'ult ])ro]ierties of 
gems. 
Caire (a.) La Science des ])ierres precieuses appliquee aux arts. 

Paris, 1833. 
Capeller (Matr. Axt.). Prodomus crystallographiie, de cryslallis improprie sic 
dictis commentarium. 

Lucernie (Lucerne), 1723. 
Cardaxi's (HiERoxYML's). Dc Lapidibus prcciosis; also De Sul)tilitate. 

These contain accounts of the magical and medicinal properties of gems. 
Carosi (Johann). Sur la Generation du Silex et du Quartz. 

Cracov, 1783. 
Caktox (J.) f]nglischen Juwelier, Kenntniss, Werthund Preisschatzung allcr Edel- 
.steine, Perlen, Corallen, ins Dent, ubersetzt nach der 10 ed. 

Gratz, 1818. 
Catalog des Bijoux nationaux. 

Paris, 1791. 
Castellaxi (A.) Gems, notes, and extracts. 

[Translated from the Italian, by Mrs. J. Brogden.] London, 1871. 



()54 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Cellini (Benevenuto). Trattato (U^l' Oreficeria. 
. Del Arte del (iioiellare. 

Fior. (Florence), 15(58. 
Chafer ( ). Note snr la region diamantif^re de I'Afriqne Anstrale. 

Paris, 1880. 
. On the occurrence of diamonds in India. 

[Comptes Rendns, 1884, p. 113.] 
CiiANi) (Gulal). Ewsay on diamonds. 

Lncknow, 1881. 
CnuRcn (A. H.). Precious and curious stones. 

[In Spectator, July 9, 1870.] 
. Townsend Collection. 

[In Quart. Jour. Science, Jan., 1871.] 
. Precious stones. 

London, 1882. 
. Discrimination, etc., of precious stones. 

[In Jour. Soc. Arts. XXIX, p. 439.] 
. Physical properties of precious stones. 

[in Proc. Geol. Assoc, V, No. 7.] 
. Colours of precious stones. * 

[in Magazine of Art. I, p. 33.] 
Clauder (G. ). Schediasma de tinctura universali, vulgo lapis philosophorum dicta, 
etc. 

Norimbergje (Nuremberg), 1736. 

An alchemical treatise containing 13 folding tables having a list of minerals 
with their properties grouped under the following heads: Nomen, Substantia, 
Color, Pondus, Natura, Prteparatio, Tractatio, Contenta. 
Clave (Estienne). Paradoxes, ou Traittez Philosophlques des Pierres et Pierreries, 
contre 1' opinion volgaire. 
Paris, 1635. 
Clutius ( AuGEKirs). Calsvee, sive Dissertatio Lapidis Nephritici, sen jaspidis viridis, 
naturam, proprietates, et operationes exhibens Belgice. 

[Amsterdam, 1621, et Lat. perGul. Lauremberg, fil.] Rostochii (Rostock), 1627. 
CoriEN (E. ). Ueber Capdiamanteii. 

[In Neues Jahrbuch I, p. 184, 1881.] 
Cohen (M.). Beschreibendes Verzeichniss einer Sammlung von Diamanten. 

Wien (Vienna), 1822. 
Collini (CosMiTs). Journal d'un Voyage, qui contient diff^rentes observations min6- 
ralogiques, particulierment sur les agates, avec un detail sur la meniere de travailler 
les agates. 

Mannheim, 1776. 
CoLONNE (Francois Marie Pompee). Historie Naturelle de I'Unlvers. 

[4 vols.] Paris, 1734. 
CoRsi (Faust). Delle fiedre antiche libri quattro. 

Roma (Rome), 1828. 
Croly (G.). Gems; etched by R. Dagley, with illust., in verse. 

London, 1822. 
Crookes (Sir W. ). Diamonds. 

[In Proc. Roy. Inst., 1897, p. 477.] 
Crookes (William). Diamonds. 

[In Report Smithsonian Institution, 1897, p. 219.] 

. On radiant matter. 

[In Chemical News, XL, i^p. 93, 104, and 127.] 

Contains results of experiments on the i)hosphorescenceof the diamond, ruby, 
and other minerals. 



CATALOGUE OF OEMS. 655 

Cf KIOSK speculatiniu'ii. 

Leipzig, 1707. 
CruL (Martha A.). Ancient gems. 

[In American Antiquarian, XXII, p. 284, 1900.] 
Dall (W. H. ). Pearls and pearl fisherie.'^. 

[In American Naturalist, ISSo, pp. 579, 731.] 
Dan.v (K. S. ). On the enieraM green spodunienc ( Iliddenite) from Alexander 
County, North Carolina. 

[In Am. Jour. Science, 1881, XXII, p. 179.] 
Dana (E. 8., and H. L. Wells). Description of the new mineral, beryllonite. 

[In Am. Jour. Science, 1889, XXXVII, p. 23.] 
Daubree (M.) Rappor sur un memoire de M. Stanislas meunier ayant pour titre: 
Composition et origine du sable diamantifere de Du Toits Pan. 

[In Comptes Rendus, LXXXIV, p. 1124.] 

A summary of the subject to the date. 
Davy (Humphrey). Some experiments on the combustion of the diamond and othei 
carbonaceous substances. 

[In Phil. Trans., 1814, p. 557.] 
De Lapidibus, Avil)us et Arborilnis Indiae, Arabiae, et Africae. 

[Harleian manuscripts.] 
Derby (O. A.). The geology of the dianiantiferous region of the province of Parana, 
Brazil. 

[In Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, XVIII, p. 251; also Am. Jour. Science, 1879, XVIII, 
p. 310.] 
. On the occurrence of diamonds in Brazil. 

[In Am. Jour. Science, 1882, XXIV, p. 34.] 

. Notes on certain schists of the gold and diamond region of eastern Minas 

Geraes, Brazil. 

[In Am. Jour. Science, 1900, X, p. 207.] 
Diamantexgrabereien in Siklafrika. 

[In Zeits. deutsch. Ing. Arch. Ver., XXVI, 1883, p. 565.] 
Diamond, Description of the. 

[In Phila. Trans. Abr., II, 1708, p. 405.] 
Diamond, The, or the pest of a da}\ 

London, 1797. 
Diamond, The artificial production of. 

[In Nature, XXII, 1880, pp. 404, 421.] 
Diamond (The). 

[In Westminster Review, Jan., 1883.] 
Diamond, Fresh . . . discoveries in New South Wales. 

[In Iron, XXIII, p. 249, 1884.] 
Diamond. Papers and notes on the genesis and matrix of the . . . by the late Henry 
Carvill Lewis, edited by H. C. Bonney. 

London, 1897. 
Diamonds. 

[In Nature, Aug. 5, 1887, p. 325.] 
Diamond cutting. 

[In 13 Annual Report of the U. S. Commissioner of Labor.] 

Deals with subjects relating to the comparison of hand and machine work. 
Diamond mining at Kimberly, South Africa. 

[In Geol. Mag., X, 1883, p. 460.] 
Dingley (Robert). On gems and precious stones, particularly such as the ancients 
used to engrave on. 

[In Phil. Trans. Al.r., IX, 1747, ]>i>. 345.] 



656 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

DiEULAFAiT (L. ). Diainaiits et Picrres l*redeuses. 

Parii^, 1871. 
DiEULAFAiT (L. ). Diamonds and i)recious stonen; a iwpular account of gems. 

New York, 1874. 
DioscoRiDEs materia medica. 

Written about A. I). 50. A jiortion of the work treats especially of the 
medicinal i)roperties of minerals. 
Dixon (A. C. ). Rocks and minerals of Ceylon. 

[In Jour. Ceylon Branch Roy. Asiatic Soc, VI, No. 22, p. 89. Colombo.] 
DoELTEK (C. ). P^.delstein Kunde. Bestimmung und Untersuchung der Edelsteine 
und Schnuicksteine Kuenstliche Darstellung der Edelsteine. 

Leipzig, 1893. 
Dolce (Ludovico). Libre tre, nei Quali si tratta delle diverse sortidelle gemme che 
produce la Natura. 

Yen. (Venice), 1564. 
Doll (E.). Zum vorkommen des Diamants in Itakolumite Brasiliens und in den 
Kopjen afrikas. 

[In Verh. k.-k. geol. Reichs., 1880, p. 78.] 
Dree ( ). Catalogue de Mus^e Mineralogique. 

Paris, 1811. 
. Voyage aux mines de diamants dans le Sud de I'Afriqne. 

[In Tour du Mond, Nos. 9:U-933, 1878.] 
Du Chesne (J.). A Briefe Aunswere of losephus Quercetanus Armeniacus, etc. 

London, 1591. 

Contains a second part " concerning the use of minerall medicines." 
Du Mersan (T. M.). Histoire du (cabinet des medailles, Pierres Gravees, etc. 

Paris, 1838. 
DuMONT (and Jourdan). Pierres precieuses. 
Dunn (E. J.). Notes on the diamond fields of South Africa. 

[In Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc, XXXIII, p. 879, and v. 37, p. 609.] 
Dlitens (Lewis). Des pierres precieuses et des pierres fines, avec les moyens de les 
connoitre et de valuer. 

[In his Oeuvres, II.] Londres, 1776. 
EccHELLENsis (Ahraham). Vcrsio Durrhamani de medicis Virtutibus animalum, 
plantarum et gemmarum. 

Paris, 1647. 
Eckerman (N. ). Ele(;tra, oder die Enstehung des Bernsteins. 

Halle, 1807. 
EcKHEL (J. H.). Choix des Pierres gravees du C-abinet Imperial des Antiques. 

Vienne (Vienna), 1788. 
Eichorn (J. G.). Die gemmis scalptis Hebraeorum. 

[In Goettingen Ges. d. Wiss. Comm., 1811-13.] 
Ekebekg (Andrew Gustavus). Dissertatio de Topazio. 

Upsal (Upsala), 1796. 
Elliott (John) . On the specific gravity of diamonds. 

[In Phil. Trans.: Abr., IX, 1745, pp. 147.] 
Emanuel (H.). Diamonds and precious stones. 

London, 1865. 

Contains a very full bibliography. 
Encelius (Christoi'h). De Re Metallica, hoc est, de origine varietate et natura cor- 
porum metallicorum, Laj)idum, Gemmarum at(iue aliarum (juae ex fodinis eruuntur, 
Libri III. 

Francf. (Frankfurt), 1551. 
Enuelhardt (Ah. von). Die Lagerstatte der Diamenten im liral-(iel)irge. 

Riga, 1830. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 657 

Epiphamus. De (Uiodecini Geiniiiis in vestv Aaroni^. 

[Gr. Lat. cum corollario Gesneri.] Tig. (Turin), 1565. 
Ercker ( L. ) . Aula Suljterranea. 

1595. 
Ermaxx. Beitrage zur ^lonograpliie <les Marekasit, Turnialin, und Brasilianischen 
Topas. 

Berlin, 1829. 
Fabre (P. J. ). L'Abrege des secrets chymiques, on I'on void la nature des animaux, 
vegetaux, et niineraux entierenient decouverte. 

Paris, 1636. 
Fallopits (G. ). De Medicatis Aquis atque de Fossilibus, traotatus ah Andrea Mar- 
colini c'ollectns. 

Venetia (Venice), 1564. 
Ferguson (A. M. and J.) . . All alx>ut gold, gems, and pearls in Ceylon and southern 
India. 

London, 1888. 
Fernel (John Francis). Pharmacia, cum Guliel, Plantii et Franc. Saguyerii Scholiis. 

Hanov. (Hanover), 1605. 
Feuchtwanger (L.). Treatise on gems in reference to their practical and scientific 
value. 

New York, 1838. 

. Popular treatise on gems in reference to their scientific value: a guide for 

the teacher, etc. 

New York, 1859. 
FicoRONi (F. ). Gemmae an tiqnae; adiiot. X. Galeotti. 

Romae (Rome), 1757. 
FiNOT (L.). Les Lapidaires Indieus. 

Paris, 1896. 

Contains eight different Sanskrit books of the art of the Indian lapidary, two 
of which are translated. The gems are described with reference as to origin, 
their value as charms, and also as to their occurrence, color, class, and value. 
Fischer (G. pe Waldheim). Essai sur la Tunjuoise et sur la calaite. 

Moscou (Moscow), 1810. 
Fischer (G. de W.). Essai sur la Pellegrina, ou la Perle incomparable des freres 
Zozima. 

Moscou (Moscow), 1818. 
Flade (C. G.). De re inetalliea Midianitarum et Phaniicornum. 

Lipsiae (Leipzig), 1806. 
Fladun(; (J. A. F. ). Yersuch iiber die Kennzeichen der Edelsteine und deren 
vortheilhaftesten Schnitt. 

Pesth (Budapest), 1819. 
. Edelsteinkunde. 

Wien (Vienna), 1828. 

Fontenav ( ). Bijoux anciens et modernes. 

Fontexelle ( ). Nouveau manuel complet du bijoutier. 

Paris, 1855. 
FoRSTER (J. A.). Diamonds and their history. 

[In Jour. Microscopy Nat. Science, III, 1884, p. 15.] 
FowLE ( ). Occurrence of diamonds in China. 

[In U. S. Consular Report, No. 198, 1897, p. 384.] 
FouQUE (F. and ]\I. Levy). Synthese des mineraux. 

Paris, 1871. 
Fremy (E. and Teil). Artificial i)roduction of i)recious stones. 

[In .lour. Soc. Arts, XXVI, 1878.] 



058 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Fremy (E. amlTEiL). Sur la production artificielle du corindon dii rul)is ct de 
diffort'iits silicates cristallisen. 

[In Coniptes Kemlns, LXXXV, p. 1029.] 
Friedlandek (I.). Artificial production of diamond in silicates corresponding to 
the actual mode of occurrence in South Africa. 
[In Geol. Mag., p. 226, 1898.] 
Frisciiolz (J.). I^hrbuch der Steinschneidekunst, fur Steinschneider, Graveurs, 
etc., und Jedens, welcher sich iiber die Veredlung der Steine zu nnterrichten 
wiinsclit. 

Miiuchen (ISIunich), 1820. 

Galamazar ( ). Liljer de Virtutibus lapidum pretiosorum quern scripsit Gala- 

mazar, Thesaurarius Regis Babylonie, ipso i>resenti et precipiente. 
[In Harleian iNIanuscripts.] 
Gautiek (J.). Untersuchung iiber die F^ntstehung, Bildung und den Bau des Chal- 
cedons, etc. 
Jena, 1809. 
Gems. 

[In Spon's Encyclopedia of the Industrial Arts, p. 1042.] 
Gerhard (C. A.). Disquisitio physico-chemica granatorum Silesise atcjue Bohemife. 

[Inaug. Diss. Frankfurt a. d. Oder, 1760.] 
Gesner (Conrad). Liber de rerum fo.ssilium, lapidum et gemmarum, maxime 
figuris. 

Tig. (Turin), 1565. 
Gimma (D. Giacento). Delia storia naturale delle gemme, delle pietre e di tutti 
minerali, ovvero della fisica sotteranea. 
Napoli (Naples), 1730. 
GiNANNi (Fanti'zzi M.). Osservazioui geognostiche sul coloramento di alcune pietre 
e suUa formazione di un agate nel nmseo Ginanni di Rivenna. 
1857. 
GiPPs (G. G. de). Occurrence of Australian opal. 

[In a paper read before the Australian Institute of Mining Engineers, 1898.] 
Glocker (FvRNST Friedrich). De genimis Pliuii, imprimis de topazio. 

Vratislavige (Breslau), 1824. 
GoEPERT (H. R.). Ueber pflanzeniihnliche Einschliisse in den Chalcedonen. 

1848. 
Gold and Gems. Mawe's Travels in the Brazils. 

1812. 
GoRCEix (H.). Les diamants et les pierres preeieuses du Bresil. 

[In Comptes Rendus, 1881, p. 981; also in Rev. 8ci., XXIX, 1882, p. 553.] 

. Etudes des mineraux qui accompagnent le diamant dans le gisement de 

Salabro (Bresil). 

[In Bull. Soc. Min. Fran^ais, VII, 1884, p. 209.] 
Gregor (William). An analysis of a variety of the corundum. 

[In Nicholson's Journal, IV, 1803, p. 209.] 
Greville (Charles). On the corundum stone from Asia. 

[In Phil. Trans Abr., XVIII, 1798, p. 3.56; and Nicholson's .Tournal, IT, p. 
477.] 
Griffiths (A. B.). On the origin and formation of the diamond in nature. 

[In Chemical News, XLVI, 1882, p. 105.] 
Groth (P.). Grundriss der PMelsteinkunde. 

Leipzig, 1887. 
Gronovius (J. ). Gemma! et SculpturiK antiquie depletes ab Leonardo Augustino 
Senensi. 2 vols, in one. 

Franequene (Franecker), 1694. 



CATALOGUE OK GEMS. 659 

Gkunung (Fr. ). Uber die Mineral vorkomineii von Ceylon. 

[In Zeit8. Krystallographie, XXXIII, 1900, j). 209.] 
GtJTiiK (J. M.). Ue]>er den Asterios-Pjdelstein des Cajus Plinius SecunduH; <nne anti- 
quariHch-lithognoi^tiisc'he Al)handlung. 

JNIiinchen (Munich), ISIO. 
GuYTON-MoRVEAU (B. L. ). On the singular crystallization of the diamond. 

[In Nicholson's Journal, XXV, 1810, p. 67.] 

■ . Account of certain experiments and inferences respecting the combustion 

of the diamond and the nature of its composition. 

[In Nicholson's Journal, III, p. 298.] 
Habdarrahamus (Asiutensis tEgyptius). De proprietiitibus ac virtutibus medicis 
animalum, plantarum ac gemmarum. 

[Ex Arab. Lat. redd, ab Abrahamo Ecchellensi]. Paris^ 1647. 
Haberle (C. C. ). Beobachtungen iiber Gestalt der Griin- und Keinikrystalle des 
schorlartigen Berylls, und dessen ixbrige oryctognostische und geognostische Ver- 
hiiltnisse. 

Erfurt, 1804. 
Haeckel (E. ). A visit to Ceylon. 

London, 1883. 
Haidinger (W.). Ueber den Pieochroismus des Amethystes. 

AVien (Vienna), 1846. 
. Ueber eine neue Varietiit von Amethyst. 

[In Denkschr. Akad. Wien, 1849.] 
. Pieochroismus und Krystallstructur des Amethystes. 

[In Ber. Akad. Wien, 1854.] 

. Der fiir Diamant oder noch vverthvolleres ausgegebene Topas des Herrn 

Dupoisat. 

[In Ber. Akad. AVien, 1858.] 
Hamlin (A. C). The tourmaline. 

Boston, 1873. 
. Leisure hours among the gems. 

1884. 
Hannay (J. B.). On the artificial formation of the diamond. 

[In Chemical News, 1880, p. 106.] 

Artificial diamonds. 

[In Nature, XXII, 22, 1880, p. 255.] 
Hasse (J. H. F. ). Der Aufgefundene Eridanus, oder neue Aufschliisse iiber den 
L^rsprung des Berusteins. 

Riga, 1769. 
HAtJY (Rene Just). Traite de la mineralogie. 

Paris, 1780. 
- — — ]\Iemoire sur les topazes du Brezil. 

[In Ann. Mus. d'Hist. Nat., Paris, 1802.] 

Observations sur les Tourmalines, jiarticulierement sur celles qui se trouvent 

dans les Etats L^nis. 

[In Memoire du Museum, Paris, 1815.] 
Traite des caracteres physiques des Pierres precieuses, pour servir a leur 



determination lors(]u'elles sont tallies. 

Paris, 1817. 
Helmkacker (R. ). On the Russian diamond occurrences. 

[In Eng. and :\lin. Jour., Oct. 28, 1898.] 
HoBBS (AV. H.). The diamond field of the Great Lakes. 

[In Jour, of Geol., VII, 1899, no. 4.] 



OGO REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Hermes Tkismegistus. Tabula smaragdina viiidicata. 
1657. 

An alchemical treatise. 
Hertz (B. ). Catalogue of Mr. Hope's collection of pearls and precious stones, sys- 
tematically arranged and described. 
London, 1839. 
Hesslino (Tii. von). Die Perlmuschel und ihre IVrleii. 

Leipzig, 1859. 
Hiller (M. ). Tractus de Gemmis xii, in Pectorali Pontificis Hebraeorum. 

Tubingen, 1698. 
HiNJ)MARsn (R. ). Precious stones, ])eing an account of tlie stones mentioned in tlie 
Sacred (Scriptures. 
London, 1851. 
HisToiRE des Joyaux et des principales Richesses de I'orient et de I'occident. 

Geneve (Geneva), 1665. 
History of Jewels. 
London, 1671. 
Hodgson (John). Dissertation on an ancient cornelian. 

[In Archaeol., II, 1773, p. 42.] 
HoLL.VNDUs (I.). Opera mineralia et vegetabilia. 

Arnhem (Arnheim), 1617. 
HunLESTON(W. H. ). On a recent hypothesis with respect to the diamond rock of 
South Africa. 

[In Min. Mag. 1883, p. 199.] 
Identific.vtion of gems. 

[In Mineral Industries (annual), 1898, p. 278.] 
Jacob (P. L. ). Curiosites des sciences occultes; alchimie, medecine chimique et 
astrologique, talismans, amulettes, baguette, divinatoire, astrologie, chiromancie, 
magie, sorcellerie, etc. 
Paris, 1885. 
Jacobs (H. and N. Chatrian). Monographie du diamant. 
Paris, 1880. 

A second edition in 1884. 
Janeti'az (N. and E. Fontenay, Em. Vanderhegen, and A. Coutance). Diamant 
et pierres })recieuses. 
Paris, 1880. 
Jannetaz (N. ). Les diamants de la couronne. 

[In Science et Nature, 1884.] 
Jennings (H.). The Ro.sicrucians. 
London, 1870. 

Another edition, 2 vols., in 1887. 
Contains some references to the mystical lore of gems. 
Jeffries (David). Treatise on diamonds and pearls, in which their importance is 
considered, jilain rules are exhibited for ascertaining the value of both, and the 
true metho<l of manufacturing diamonds is laid down. 
London, 1750. 

Traite des diamants et des perles. 

Paris, 1753. 

An abstract of the treatise on diamonds and pearls, 1)y wdiich the usefulness 

to all who are in any way interested in these jewels will sufHciently apj^ear, and 
therefore addressed to the nobility and gentry of this kmgdom, and to the traders 
in jewels. 

London, 1754. 



CATALOGUE OK GEMS. (j^H 

Jonx (J. ¥.). Xatiirgeschichti' <l("s Siicciiis, odcr den sogcriiaiiritt'ii Bornsteinp. 

Koln (Cologne), 1S16. 
Jones ("W.). Treasures of the earth, or iiiines, minerals, and metals. 

London, 1879. 

Precious stones, their history and mystery. 

Ix)ndon, 1880. 

Finger-ring lore. 

London, 1890. 

JoNSTOxrs (JoHANXEs). Nodtia Regni X'egetaljilis et Mineralis. 
Lipseae (Leipzig), 1661. 

Thaumatographia Naturalis. 

Amsterdam, 1682. 

JosEiMirs. Antiquatum Judaiearum. 

[Translated from the (ireek ])y \V. Whiston.] London, 1737. 

In book III, chap. 8 is an account of the marvelous i)roperties of the stones in 
the breast-plate of the high priest. 
JuDD (J. W. and AV. ¥.. IIiddex). On the occurrence of ruby in North Carolina. 

[In Min. Mag., 1889, p. 139.] 
JuTiER ( ). Exploitation du diamant dans la colonie du cap. 

[In Compt. Rendus See. Industr. Min. St. Etienne, p. 34.] 
JrwELiER, Der Aufrichtige, oder Anweisung aller Arten Edelsteine, Diamenten, und 
Perlen zu erkennen, nebst einer aus dem Englischen uebersetzten Abhandlung 
von den Diamanten und Perlen. 

Frankfurt, 1772. 
Kauler (M.). De Crystallorum (ieneratione. 

Upsal (Upsala), 1747. 
Kal.m (P.). Nfigra Kanne marken til nyttiga mineraliens eller ford och Baigarters 
upfinnande. 

Aboae (Abo), 1756. 
Key to precious stones and nietals. 

London, 1869. 
King (C. W. ) . Antique gems. 

London, 1860. 

The natural history of precious stones and of the precious metals. 

London, 1867. 

The natural history of gems or decorative stones. 

London, 1867. 

Handbook of engraved gems. 

London, 1885. 

King (G. F.). Topaz and assoc-iated minerals at Stoneham, Maine. 

[In Am. Jour. Science, XXVII, 1884, p. 212.] 
Kiraxi Kiranides et ad eas Rhyakini koronides, sive mysteria Phy.sico-Medica. 

London, 1685. 
KiRfHER (Athaxasus). MuuduK subterraneus in XII libros digestus 

Amstellodami (Amsterdam), 1678. 

Another edition, Le Monde Souterrain, in French. 
KiKKi'.vTRicK (T. S. G.). Simple rules for the discrimination of gems 

New York, 1895. 
Klaproth (M. H.). Analysis of tlie spinel. 

[In Nicholson's Journal, III, 1799, p. 549.] 
Klebs (R. ). Der Bernstein, Seine Gewinnung, Geschichte u. geologische Be<leutung. 

Berlin, 1880. 
Kleekeld ( ). Die Halbedelstein. 

Berlin, 1879. 



602 REPOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Klkekeli) ( ). Die Kdelstein. 

Kluge (K. K. ). llandbuch (lor EdelHteinkunde. 

Leipzig, 1860. 
KoHLER (H. K. A. von). Kleine Anhamlliingen zur (Teunnenkuiide. 
. Unteraurhung iiher den sard, onyx und sardonix. 

Braunschweig (Brunswick), 1801. 
KoKscHAUow (N. von). Materialen ziir nuneralogie Russlands. 

St. Petersburg. 

Eleven vols, and atlas. Begun in 1853 and the ])arts issued from time to time. 
Contains niineralogical descriptions of gem minerals of the Russian Empire. 
KoNiG (Em.\nuel). Regnum minerale, physice, medice, anatomice, alchymice, anal- 
ogice, theoretice et practice investigatum. 

Basil (Basle), 1689. 
KoNNERiTZ (L. von). Mitthcilung mannichfaltiger Versuch Edelsteine Kunstgemass 
zu schleifen. 

Weimar, 1841. 
Krause (T. H.). Pyrgoteles, oder die edeln Steine der alten in Bereiche der 
Natur, etc. 

Halle, 1856. 
KuNZ ( G. F. ) . Precious stones. 

[In Mineral Resources of tlie United States. Issued annually Ijy the United 
States Geological Survey.] 
. Precious stones. 

[In Appleton's Physical Geography.] 
. The gems in the National Museum. 

[In Popular Science Monthly, April, 1886.] 
. Precious stones, gems, and decorative stones in Canada and British America. 

[Ann. Rept. Geol. Survey of Canada, Ottawa, 1888.] 
. The fresh-water jjearls and pearl fisheries of the United States. 

[In Bulletin of the U. S. Fish Commission, 1897, p. 375.] 
. Gems and precious stones. 

New York, 1890. 
. Folk-lore of precious stones. 

1894. 

A catalogue of specimens exhibited in the Department of Anthropology, 
World's Columbian Exposition, Chicago, 1893. 
. Sapphires from Montana, with special reference to those from Yogo Gulch, 



in Fergus County. 

[In Am. Jour. Science, IV, 1897, p. 417.] 
Labarte (M. Jules). Handbook of the arts of the Middle Ages and Renaissance, 
as applied to the decoration of jewels, etc. 
London, 1855. 
Lacaze (Duthieks H.). Histoire Naturelle du Corail, Organisation, Reproduction, 
Peche en Algerie, Industrie, etc. 
Paris, 1864. 
Laet (John de). De Germnis et Lapidibus Libri II, Quibus pra^mittitur Theo- 
phrasti Liber; de Lapidibus Gr. Lat., cum annotationibus. 
Lugd. Bat. (Leyden), 1647. 
Lancon (H.). L'Art du Lapidaire. 

Paris, 1830. 
Langius (Johannes). Epistolas medicinales. 

Lugd. (Leyden), 1557. 
Lapidum Pretiosorum usus magicus, sive de sigillis. 
[In Harleian Manuscripts.] 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 663 

Latnay (L. de). IjCi^ (liamants du Cap. 

Paris, 1897. 
Lea (Isaac). Inclusions in gemp. 

[In Proc. Acad. Nat. Science, Philadelphia.] 
Leisxerus (Gott. Christ.). De Corallioruni Natura, Prteparatis et Usibus. 

Wittemberg;* (Wittemberg), 1720. 
Lemnus (Levints). Occulta Naturae Miracula. 

Antwerp, 1567. 
Lexk (J. ). Neue Entdeckung eines Steines Serpentin-Agat. 

Wien (Vienna), 1802. 
Leoxardus (Camillus). Speculum Lapiduni. 

Venet. (Venice), 1502. 

. Tratto delle Gemme che produce la Natura; traduzione di M. Ludovico 

Dobe. 

1565. 

The mirror of stones, in which the nature, generative properties, virtues, 



and various species of more than 200 different jewels, precious and rare stones are 
distinct] y descrilied. 

London, 1750. 
Lewis (H. C. ). Genesis and matrix of the diamond. 

London, New York, and Bombay, 1897. 
LnsAvi.E (A. ). Alchemia. 

Frankfurt, 1597. 
LiHEK Hermetis, tractans de 15 Stellis et de 15 Lapidibus et de 15 Herbis et de 15 
Figuris. 

[In Harleian INIanuscripts. ] 
Liversedge (A.). On the occurrence of diamonds in New Soutli Wales. 

[In Minerals of New South Wales, London, 1888.] 
LoEw.M ( ). Ueber den Bernstein und <lie Bernstein-Fauna. 

Berlin, 1850. 
LoNixsER (G. ). Die ]\Iarmarosclier Diamanten. 

Presberg, 1856. 
Loscn (A.). Ueber Kalkeisengranat (Demantoid) von Syssertzk am ural. 

[In Neues Jahrbuch, 1879, p. 785.] 

De.scription of locality, occurrence, etc., of tlie green garnet (demantoid) used 
in jewelry. 
Loris (H.). The ruby and sapphire deposits of 3Ioung Klung, Siam. 

[In Min. Mag., 1894, p. 276.] 

LucRETirs ( ). De Rerum Natura. 

LuLuus (Ravmuxdis). Lebelli aliquot chemici, etc. 

Basilese (Basle), 1600. 

[See p. 319: "De compositione gemmarum et lapidum preciosorum."] 
Makow.sky (A.). Ueber die Diamanten des Kaplandes auf der Weltaustellung in 
Wien. 

[In Verb. Nat. Ver. Briinn, XII, p. 16.] 
Mallet (F. R. ). On sapphires recently discovered in the North w»'st Himalayas. 

[In Rec. Geol. Surv. India, XV, 1881, p. 138.]- 
Manueville (John). Le Grande Lapidaire, oii sont declarez les noms de Pierres 
orientales, avec les Vertus et Propietes d'icelles, et lies et pays ou elles croissant. 

Paris, 1561. 
Marbod.eus (Gallus). De (Jemmarum Lapidumque pretiosorum iormis atque viri- 
bus opus culum. 

Colon (Cologne), 1593. 

NAT MUS 1900 45 



064 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. . 

MAKBODyEUS (Gallus). Dc T.apidibus pretiosis KiK-hiridion, c-um Scholiis Pictorii. 

WolfenbiilteUe ( W()lfen])ultel), 1740. 
Mariette (P. J.). Traite des Pierres gravies. 

Paris, 1750. 
Marshall (W. P.). Notes on the Great Kim))erley Diamond mine. 

[In Midi. Nat., VII, p. 93.] 

IMarl borough gems. Gemmarum Antiquarum Delectus ex prfestantioribus 
desumptus, qua? in Dactyliotheeis Dueis Marlburiensis conservantur, 1845. 
Martin (K.). Notizen iiber Diamanten. 

[In Zeits. deutsch. geol. Gesells. XXX, p. 521; plate.] 

A crystallographic study of the diamonds in the Leyden Museum. 
Maskelyne (N. R. ). Artiticial diamonds. 

[In Jour. Soc. Arts, XXVII, p. 289.] 
Mason (F.). Burma: Its people and productions. 

London, 1882. 

In 2 vols., I, geology and mineralogy. 
Mawe (John). A treatise on diamonds and precious stones, including their history, 
natural and commercial. To which is added some account of the best method of 
cutting and polishing them. 

London, 1813. 
. Travels in the interior of Brazil, particularly in the gold and diamond dis- 
tricts of that country. 

London, 1812. 
Meineke (J. L. G.). Ueber den Chrysopras und die denselben begleitenden Fossi- 
lien in Schlesien. 

Erlangen, 1805. 
Meunier (S. ). Composition et origine du sal)le diamantifere de Du Toils Pan 
( Af rique- Australe) . 

[In Comptes Rendus, LXXXIV, p. 250.] 
Miles (C. E.). Diamonds. 

[In Trans. Liverpool Geol. Soc, II, p. 92, 1882.] 
M. L. M. D. S. D. Denombrement, Faculte et Origine des Pierres precieuses. 

Paris, 1667. 
MoBius (K.). Die echten Perlen. 

Hamburg, 1857. 
Morales (G. de). Libro de las Virtudes y Propriedades maravillosas de las Piedras 
preciosas. 

Madrid, 1605. 
Mok<;an (Sylvanus). The Sphere of Gentry. 

1661. 

Contains an account of the lieraldic meaning of gems. 
Morris (J.). Gems and precious stones of Great Britain. 

1868. 
Mortimer (Cromwell). Remarks on the precious stone called the turquois. 

[In Phil. Trans. Abr., VIII, p. 324.] 
MtJLLER (J.). Nachricht von den in Tyrol entdeckten Turmalinen, oder Aschenzie- 
hern, von Ignaz Edeln von Born. 

Wien (Vienna), 1787. 
Murray (J.). Memoir on the diamond. 

London, 1839. 
Murray (R. W.). Diamond fields of South Africa. 

[In Jour. Soc. Arts, XXIX, j). 370.] 
Natter (L. ). A treatise on the ancient method of engraving pre(dous stones com- 
pared with the modern. 

London, 1754, 



i 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 665 

Natural Magick, in twenty ])ooks, wlierein are t*et forth all the riches and delights 
of the natural sciences, with engravings. 
London, 1658. 

An English trans, of Porta' s Magije Naturalis. 
NicoLS (Thomas). A lapidary, or history of pretious stones; with cautions for the 
undeceiving of all those that deal with pretitious stones. 
London, 1754. 

. Arcula Gemmea; or the Nature, Virtue, and Valour of Precious Stones, with 

cautions for those who deal in them. 
Cambridge, 1652. 

Gemmarius Fidelis, or the Faithful Lapidary; experimentally describing 



the richest Treasures of Nature, in an Historical Narrative of the several Natures, 
Virtues, and Qualities of all Precious Stones, with a Discovery of all such as are 
adulterate and counterfeit. 

London, 1659. 
NoRTHRUP (H. D. ). Beautiful gems. 

1890. 
OciTTcnEPKOFF (J. W.). Qui ti decouvert le Diamant dans les Montes Ourals? 

[In Bui. Soc. Oural. Sci. Nat., VII, p. 87, 1884.] 
Opals (Australian). 

[In Iron, XXII, p. 490, 1883.] 
Orpkx (G.). Stories about famous precious stones. 

1890. 
Orpheus. Hymni et de Lapidibus. (ir. Lat., curante A. C. Eschenbachio; accedunt 
H. Stephani nota\ 

Traj. ad Rh. (Cologne), 1689. 
Okton (J.). Undei'ground treasures. 

Philadelphia, 1881. 
Pacje(D. ). Economic Geology. 

London, 1874. 
Paracelsus (Philippus Aurelius Theophrastus) . Nine books on the nature of 
things; into English by J. F. 

London, 1650. 
Paracelsus. Of the chymical transmutation, genealogy, and generation of metala 
and jninerals [tr. by R. Turner]. 

London, 1657. 
Parrot ( ). Notices sur les Diamants d I'Oural. 

[In Mem. de I'Acad. Imp., St. Petersburg, 1832]. 
Paktsch (P.). Beschreibendes Verzeichniss einer Sammburg von Diamanten und 
der zur Bearbeitung derselben nothwendigen apparate. 

Wein (Vienna), 1822. 
Paxmax (J. N. ). The diamond fields of South Africa. 

[In Eng. Min. Jour., XXXV, p. 382.] 
. On the diamond fields and mines of Kimlierley, South Africa. 

[InProc. Inst. Civil i:ng., LXXIV, p. 59.] 
Pa.vton (J. R. ). Jewelry and the prec-ious stones. 

[By Hipponax Roset, pseudon.] Philadelphia, 1856. 
Petzfioldt (M.). Beitnige zur Naturgeschichte des Diamants. 

Dresden und Leipzig, 1842. 
PniLosTKATUs. De Vita Apolonii. 
PiEREKUs (G. p.). Lazulus, Dissertatio chymico, luedica. 

Argentorati (Straslmrg), 1668. 
PiNiJER ( ). De Adamante Commentatio Autiquaria. 

Berlin, 1829. 



666 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, liKK). 

PiRSSON (L. V.)- On the corundum-bearing ro(!k from Yogo Gulch, Montana. 

[In Am. Jour. Science, IV, 1897, p. 421.] 
Pliny. Historia Naturalis C. Plinii secundi. 

First issued A. D. 77. 

The work is divided into .S7 Ijooks, and these into short chapters; tlie last 5 
books treat particularly of gems and other minerals. 
Pluchk (Antoixe Noj:l J)e). Spectacle de la Nature. 

Paris, 1732-39. 
Plummkr (J.). Australian localities of diamond. 

[In Watchmaker, Jeweller, and Silversmith, XXIV, 1898.] 
Plytokf (G.). Divination, calcul, des probabilites, oracles et sorts, songes, grapholo- 
gie, chiromancie, phrenologie, physiognomie, cryptographie, magie, kabale, 
alchimie, astrologie, etc. 

Paris, 1891. 
Pole (W. ). Diamonds. 

[In London Archaeol. Trans., 18(31.] 
Porta (Joiix Baptist). Magiii' Naturalis. 

Porta [born 1538, died 1615] published the first edition of this work in 1553, 
when he was but 15 years old. It contains much concerning the mystical prop- 
erties of gems. The work also contains a description of the camera obscura. 
. A method of knowing the inward virtues of things Viy inspection. 

1601. 
. De Distillationilms. 

Ronue (Rome), 1608. 
PoRTALEONE (Abraham). Sliilte Haggeborim [The Shields of the Mighty]. 

Mantua, A. M. 5372 (A. D. 1612). 
Porr (M. J.). Lithogeopnosie, ou examen chymique des Pierres et des Terres en 
general et de la Topaze et de la st(^atite en particulier. 

Paris, 1753. 
PouGENiEFF. Precious Stones. Russian, with 2 coloured plates and numerous 
woodcuts. 

St. Petersburg, 1888. 
PoiKJET (N. ). Traite des Pierres precieuses, et de la maniere de les employer en 
parure. 

Paris, 1762. 
Pratt (J. H.). Notes on North Carolina minerals. 

[In Journal Elisha Mitchell Scientific Society, XIV, part 2, p. 61, 1898.] 

Describes occurrence of emerald. 
Pratt (J. H., and W. E. Hidden). Rhodolite, a new variety of garnet. 

[In Am. Jour. Science, V, 1898, p. 293; also VI, 1898, p. 463.] 
PrecioI'S stones of the Bible; descriptive and symbolical. 

1878. 
Precious stones, cutting and polishing of. 

[In Mineral Industries (annual), p. 229, 1899.] 
Prinz (W.). Les enclaves du Saphir, <lu Rubis, et du Spiuelle. 

[In Bui. Soc. Beige. Microsc, 1882.] 
PsELLUs (Michael CoNSTANTiNUs). De Lapidum Virtutibus. 

Lugundi Batavorum (Leyden), 1795. 

Ragoumovsky ( ). Distribution Technique des Pierres precieuses, avec leurs 

caracteres distinctifs. 

Vienne (Vienna), 1825. 
Ra.mhosson ( ). Les Pierres ])r6cieuses. 



CATALOGUE OK OEMS. 6G7 

RvNTzovirs ( Henry ). TV (xeininis Hcriptiun oliin a ixn'ta (|U()(lam iiou infeliciter 
irarniine re<l(litiun ft iiuik' jiriiuuin in Inceiu e<lituiii. 

Leipzig, l0(S5. 

A inaiiusicript on the properties and effects of precious stones attrilnited to 
" Kvax, a King of the Arabs." 
R.wirs (S. F. ). Specimen arabicuni, continensdescriptioneni et excerpta hbri Ach- 
medis Teifaschii "De Gennnis et Lapidibus Pretiosis." 

Trajetuni ad Rhennm (Leyden), 1784. 
Reyxaud (J.). Histoire elementaire des niineranx nsuels. 

Paris, 1867. 
RoMicKTsoN (J. K. M. ). The occurrence of opals in central Australia and Queensland. 

[In Chem. News, LXV, 1882, i)p. 95, 101.] 
. On the occurrence of opals in the colony of Queensland. 

[In Proc. Phil. Soc. Glasgow, XIII, p. 427.] 
RosENMtJLLER (E. F. C. ). Mineralogy of the Biljle. 

[Translated by Repp and Morren.] Edinl)urgh, 1840. 
Ross (W. A.). Pyrology. 

London, 1875. 

— . On the cause of the blue color of sapphire, la/.ulite, and lapis lazuli; the 

green color of emerald and the purple of amethyst. 

[In Chem. News, XL VI, 1882, p. ;W.] 
Rothschild (M. D. ). Handl)ook of jirecious stones. 

New York, 1890. 
Roy (C. W. Van). Ansichten iiber Knstehung und vorkommen des Bernsteins, so 
wie praktische mittheilungen iiber den werth und die Behandlung desselben als 
Ilandelsware. 

Dantzig, 184p. 
RuuLER (F. W.). Agate and agate working. 

[In Pop. Science Rev., I (new series), p. 2.3.] 
— — -. Artificial diamonds. 

[In Pop. Science Rev., IV, 1880, p. i:]6.] 
. Diamonds. 

[In Science for All, II.] 
. On jade and kindred stones. 

[In Pop. Science Rev., Ill, p. 337.] 
Rudolph (A.). Die edeln metalle und Schmucksteine, mit 37 Tabellen. 

Breslau, 1858. 
RiE (F. DE la). De Gemmis. 

Parisii (Paris), 1547. 

Other editions: Lugd., 1622; Franc, 1626; Gron., 1626. 
RuENs (F. ). De Gemmis aliquot, iis praesertim quarum Divus Joannes Apostolus in 
sua Apocalypsi notavit. 

Paris, 1547. 
RuLANDUs (M.). Medicina Practica. 

Arg. (Strasburg), 1564. 
. Lexicon Alchemize. 

Frankfurt, 1661. 

First ed. dated 1612. The author, a physician to Rudolph II of Germany, 
gives several receii)ts for the develoj)ment of the occult and medi(!inal properties 
of gems. 
RusKiN (J.). On the heraldic meaning of precious stones. 

[In his lecture before the London Institute, Feb., 1876.] 
Sandius (Christopher). On the origin of pearls. 

[In Phil. Trana.: Abr., II, p. 126, 1674.] 



008 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 19U0. 

SAPPniRE. 

[In Mineral Industries (annual), p. 235, 1896.] 
Sapphire mines of Burma. 

[In Mineral Industries (annual), p. 239, 1896.] 
Sapphire mixes i.\ Siam. 

[In Jour. Soc. Arts, XXVIII, p. 770.] 
Sarmento (J. C. de). An account of diamonds found in Brazil. 

[In Phil. Trans.: Abr., VIII, 1731, p. 503.] 
ScniNDLEK (A. H. ). The turquoise mines of Nishapur, Khorassan. 

[In Rec. Geol. Survey, India, XVII, p. 132.] 
Scn.MiDT (C. J.). Das Wichtigste iiber dem Opal in AUgemeinen und iiber sein 
Vorkommen in Miihren im Besonderen. 

[In Mitth. d. k. k. Miihr. Schles. Gesells., Brunn, 1855.] 
ScHRAiTK (A.). Handbuch der Edelsteinkunde. 

Wien (Vienna), 1869. 
ScHULZE (H.). Practisches Handbu(;li der Juwelierkunst und Edelsteinkunde. 

Quedhnburg und Leipzig, 1830. 
Scot (Reginald). Discovery of witchcraft. 

London, 1651. 

Contains several curious charms in which gems are used. 
ScuDALUPis (P. Arlensis de). Sympathia Septem ac Septem Selectorum Lapidum 
ad Planetas. 

An alchemical or astrological work; among other curiosities it contains a list 
of stones "in sympathy with the seven planets." 
Serapion (J. ). De medicamentis tam simplicibus quam compositis. 

Mediolanum (Milan), 1473. 
SiiEi.LY (F. ). Legends of gems. 

New York, 1893. 
SiiEPARD (C. U., senior). Notice of corundum gems in the Himalaya region of India. 

[In Am. Jour. Science, XXVI, 1883, p. 339.] 
Shepstone (T. ). The geographical and physical characters of the diamond fields of 
South Africa. 

[In Jour. Soc. Arts, XXII, 1874.] 
Shipton ( ). Precious gems. 

London, 1867. 
SiLLiMAN (B. ). Turquoise of New Mexico. 

[In Proc. Am. Assoc, XIX, p. 431; also Am. Jour. Science, XXII, 1880, p. 67.] 
Slevogtii (J. H.). De Lapide Bezoar. 

Jenfe (Jena), 1698. 
SoTTO (Js.). Le Lapidaire du Quartorzieme Si6cle. 

Wien (Vienna), 1862. 
Spener (J. J.). De gemmis errores vulgares. 

Lipsiai (Leii)zig), 1688. 
Smyth (H. W.). Five years in Siam (1891-1896). 

2 vols. London, 1898. 
Spezia (G.). Sul colore del Zircone. 

[In Atti R. Ac. Torino, XII, p. 37.] 

His experiments show that the color is dependent upon the degree of oxida- 
tion of the (contained iron. 
Steinbeck ( ). Ueber die Bernstein-Gewinnung. 

Brandenburg, 1841. 
Streeter (E. W. ). Precious stones and gems. 

London, 1877. 



CATALOGUE OF GEMS. 6()9 

Streetek (E. W.). Great (lianioiids of the woi-ld. 

London, 1892. 
SiTTOx (A. L. ). Lingua gemmje: cycle of gems. 

1894. • 

TA(iOKE (S. M. ). Mani-inaht, or a treatise on gems. 2 vols. 

Calcutta, 1879. 

Contains a l)ibliography of Sanskrit, Persian, Arabic, and other Oriental works 
on gems. 
TAS.SIE, (J.\MEs). Descriptive catalogue |of a c(jllection of ancient and modern en- 
graved gems, cameos, and intaglios of the most celebrated cabinets in Europe; cast 
in colored pastes, white enamel, and sulphur; arranged and described by R. E. 
Raspe, 1791. 
T.wERNiEK (J. B. ). Voyages in Turquie, en Perse et aux Indes. 

Paris, 1676. 
. Account of diamond mines. 

[In Pinkerton's Collection of Voyages, VIII, 1811.] 
Taylor (L. ). Precious stones and gems, with their reputed virtues. 

London, 1895. 
Taylor (N. ). On the Cudgegong diamond Held, New South Wales. 

[In Geol. Mag.; IV, p. 399.] 
Teifascite (Ahmed). Fior di Pensieri suUe Pietre Preziose, opera stampata nel suo 
originale Arabo di Ant. Raineri. 

Firenze (Florence), 1818. 
Tennaxt (J.). Gems and precious stones. 

[In Soc. of Arts. Lect., 1851-52.] 
Tesoro delle Gioie, Trattato curioso. 

Venetitia (Venice), 1670. 
Theophrastus. History of stones, with the Greek text and an English version, and 
notes, critical and philosophical, including the modern history of gems described 
by that author, by Sir John Hill. 

London, 1746. 
Thousand (A) notable things on various subjects. 

London, 1814. 
Ti.mberlake. — Discourse of the travels of two English pilgrims. 

1611. 

Contains, among others, an account of a great jewel used in conjuring. 
Toll (Adrianus). Gemmarum et Lapidum Historia. 

Lugduni (Leyden), 1636. 

. Le Parfaict Joaillier, ou Histoire des Pierreries, oil sont amplement des- 

crites leur naissance, juste prix, etc. 

Lyon, 1644. 
Traite des Pierres de Theophraste. 

[Translated from the Greek.] Paris, 1754. 
Turner (H. W.). The occurrence and origin of diamonds in California. 

[In American Geologist, 1899, p. 182.] 
Valentinus (Basilus). Of natural and supernatural things, etc. 

[Translated from the Dutch by D. C] London, 1670. 

An alchemical treatise containing several accounts of the occult and medicinal 
properties of gems. The German edition was issued at Eisleben in 1603. 
Vane (G.). The pearl fisheries of Ceylon. 

[In Journal of the Ceylon Branch Royal Asiatic Society, X, 1887. Colombo.] 
Vega (Garcilaso de la). History of the Incas. 

[Various editions.] 



670 EEPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Velthei.m (A. F. vox) . Etwas i'lber IMemnons Bildsiiule, Nero's Smaragd, Toreutik, 
und (lie Kunst der Alton in Stein und Giaf^ zii schneiden. 

HelniHtadt, 1798. 

— -. Etwas iiber das Onyx-Gebirge des Clesias und den Handel der Alten nach 

Ost-Indien. 

Helmstadt, 1797. 
Venette (NicnoL.As). Traite des Pierres. 

Amsterdam, 1701. 
Vetterm.\xx (A.). Kurze Abhandlung iiber einige der vorzuglicljsten Classen der 
bunten oder gefilrbten Edelsteine. 

Dresden, 1830. 
VoGEL (H. W.). Spectralanalytische Notizen. 

[In Ber. Deiitsch. chem. Gesell., X, p. 373, 1887.] "* 

Examination of garnet, ruby, etc. 
Wernher ( ). Die Gewinnung und Aufbereitung der Diamanten in Siid-Afrika. 

[In Wochenschr. Dentseh. Ing.-Arch.-Ver., p. 365.] 
Westropp (H. M.). Manual of precious stones. 

1874. 
Weckerus (or Wecker). Antidotfe speciales de Lapidibus minus pretiosis alte- 

rantibus. 
WiLiJ.\Ms (C. G.). Researches on emeralds and beryls. 

[In Chem. News, XXXV, p. 256.] 

A purely chemical i)aper. 
WiLLiMOT (C. W. ). Canadian gems and precious stones. 

[In Ottawa Naturalist, Nov., 1891.] 
Zepharovitch ( V. von) . Der Diamant, ein populiirer vortrag. 

Gratz, 1862. 
Zerremek (C. ). Anleitung zum Diamanten. Waschen aus Seifengebirge, Ufer- 
und Flu.ssbett-Sand. 

Leipzig, 1851. 
. De Adamanti Dissertatio. 

Lipsi;e (Leipzig), 1862. - 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Tassin. 



Plate 1, 




i; uj <^ 



DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF THE METEORITE COLLECTION 
IN THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM, TO JANUARY 

1, [\m. 

BY WIRT TASSIN, 

Atisuttaul Ciiralor, Dirhioii of M'aieralogy. 



(371 



I 



IISTRODITCTORY ?^^OTE. 

The following catalogue has been prepared by Mr. Tassin mainly to 
facilitate exchanges and to aid in the building up of the collection, as 
was a former issue compiled by Prof. F. W. Clarke and printed in the 
Annual Report of the National Museum for 1885-86 (1889). 

For purposes of ready reference, howeyer, the alphabetical arrange- 
ment adopted by Wulfing is adhered to. For the same reason the 
samples belonging to the Shepard collection are included with those 
of the Museum proper, but always with the proper reference. Where 
a meteorite is represented in l)oth collections, that ])elonging to the 
Museum is first mentioned. 

As will Ije noted, the combined collections now represent 348 falls 
and finds, of which 143 are irons. 

George P. Merrill, 
Head Citrator^ Departmod of Geology. 

673 



m 



DHSCRIlTIVn CATALO(;UH OF THE METHORITH COLLECTION 
L\ THE UNLLED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM TO JANUARY 

I. 1Q02. 



l>y WiKT Tassin, 
Asslstaiil ritnilitr, DiviKton af Minrraldtji/. 



Ahtrl. Iron. Weight, 150 trraiiis. Section of niast^. One faee etched, showing 
coarse Widmanstattian tiirures. l^ocahty unknown; found without lal)el in a 
collection of minerals* belontring to Col. J. J. Abert. Catalogue number, 44363. 
Gift of J. T. Abert. 

Fragment. Weight, 11.3 granit^. The Shepard Collection, No. '20. 

Adiniir, Kansas. Stony iron. Weight, 5,460 gramn. Catalogue numl)er, S4798. 
Weight, 6,725 grams. Catalogue number, 84S02. Weight, 2,048 grams. Cata- 
logue number, 84812. Weight, 432 grams. Catalogue numlx'r, 84813. Cift of 
W\ C. Davis. 

Ajen [Brethon, near Castelmoron], Lot-et-Caronne, France. Stone. Weight, 38 
grams. Fell September 5, 1814. Fragment from interior. Ground mass light 
ash-gray, traversed by numerous streaks or veins of a darker color. ( Jround ma.ss 
much fractured and containing white chondrules and metallic grains. Cata- 
logue number, 84740. 

Alais, Gard, France. Stone. Weight, 0.60 gram. Fell March 15, 1806, 5 p. m. 
Carbonaceous. A dark brown powder and some friable fragments. The Shep- 
ard Collection, No. 133. 

^4//<<(rWo, near Modena, Italy. Stone. AVeight, 1 gram. Fell July, 1766. Fragment 
from interior. Ground mass light gray. The Shejtard Collection, No. 124. 

^i//>M(/HtT7«(', New Mexico. Iron. Weight, 58.61 grams. Found 1884. (a) Section; 
weight, 0.56 gram, with original and etched surfaces. Catalogue number, 44372. 
Gift of Richard Pearce. (b) Turnings; weight, 2.61 grams. Catalogue number, 
46615. Gift of L. G. Eakins. 

^l/e.r«?irfer Con»i/>/, North Carolina. Iron. Weight, 12.3 grams. Found 1860. Frag- 
ment, etched; etching develops large i)lates of tjenite. The Shepard Collection, 
No. 82. 

Altimuilo, near Pontetico and Brescia, Cremona, Italy. Stone. Weight, 61.3 grams. 
Fell February 16, 1883, 3 j). m. Fragment from interior. (Ground mass ash- 
gray flecked with rust and containing chondrules and metallic grains. Structure, 
fine granular. Catalogue number, 46625. 

Two fragments from interior. Weight, 2i».54 grams. TheShei)ard Collection, 
No. 237. 

Allegan, Thomas Hill, Saugatuck road, Allegan County, Michigan. Stone. Weight, 
30 kilograms. Fell July 10, 1899. (See Plate 2.) 

Anderson, Little Miami Valley, Hamilton County, Ohio. Stony iron. AVeight, 
14.8 grams. Fragment. The iron matrix contains nodules of stony matter. 
Found in an Indian mound, Nf). 3 of the Turner group. Catalogue number, 
47391. Gift of Peabody Museum oi American Archieology. 

675 



676 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Anffcri^, Maiiie-c't-I>oire, France. Stone. Weight, 0.72 gram. Fell June 3, 1882. 
Fragments from interior. The Shepanl Collection, No. 147. 

Angra dos Jirix, Rio, Brazil. Stone. Weight, 8.57 grams. Fell January, 1869. 
Fragment with shining black crust. Ground mass dark brown, containing few, 
if any, chondrules, and no metallic grains. Structure, tine granular. Catalogue 
number, 47649. 

A.ssarn, India. Stone. AVeight, 7 grams. Found 1846. Dark ash-gray fragment 
with crust; gray chondrules. The Shepard Collection, No. 168. 

Asuiv, near Perugia, Italy. Stone. Weight, 29 grams. Fell May 24, 1886. Frag- 
ment with crust, (iround mass ash gray, containing chondrules and metallic 
grains. The Shepard Collection, No. 239. 

Auburn, Macon County, Alabama. Iron. Weight, 29 grams. Found 1867. Frag- 
ment. Catalogue number, 46067. 

Eight fragments. Weight, 228.15 grams. The Shepard Collection, No. 76. 

Auguslinovka, Ekaterinoslav, Russia. Iron. Weight, 70 grams. Found 1890. 
Rectangular slice 9.5 by 2.5 cm. Patched surface showing typical Widmanstiit- 
tian figures. Catalogue number, 84690. (a) Oxidized fragment; weight, 50 
grams, (b) Oxidized fragment; weight, 24 grams, (c) Unoxidized fragment; 
weight, 7 grams. The Shepard Collection, No. 245. 

^ttJHw.s, Canton Massegros, Lozere, France. Stone. Weight, 0.45 gram. Fragment. 
Fell June 3, 1842. Fragment. The Shepard Collection, No. 165. 

^M.ssMn (Clarac), Montrejeau, Haute Garonne, France. Stone. Weight, 20.1 grams. 
Fell December 9, 1858. Two fragments, one showing crust. Ground mass 
ash gray flecked with rust and containing light and dark chondrules and 
metallic grains. The Shepard Collection, No. 185. 

Babhs Mill, Green County, Tennessee. Iron. Weight, 38.4 grams. Known 1842. 
Catalogue number, 47339. 

Three specimens; weight, 20.63 grams, (a) Small fragment, (b) Vial of fil- 
ings, (c) Vial of turnings. The Shepard Collection, No. 34. 

Bachmut (Alexejevka), Ekaterinoslav, Russia. Stone. Weight, 8.6 grams. Fell 
February 15, 1814. Fragment with crust and polished surface. Ground mass 
greenish gray with numerous metallic grains and chondrules. The metallic 
portion is more or less oxidized. The Shepard Collection, No. 142. 

Bairds Plantation, Asheville, Buncombe County, North Carolina. Iron. Weight, 
2.95 grams. Found 1839. Three fragments. The Shepard Collection, No. 29. 

5o/Zmoo (10 miles south of), Murchison River, West Australia. Iron. Weight, 122 
grams. Found 1892. Patched surface has a stippled appearance overlaid with a 
network of fine lines. The Shepard Collection, No. 104. 

Weight, 1,266 grams. Found 1893. Cross section of mass. One face etched, 
showing Widmaiistiittian figures so small that to the unaided eye the surface has 
a granular or stippled appearance. The surface shows two large, and several 
small troilite nodules, and the mold of another. Catalogue number, 84809. 

Bandong, Goemoroeh, Perang, Java. Stone. Weight, 1.6 grams. Fell December 
10, 1871, 1.30 p. m. Fragment with crust. Catalogue numl)er, 46079. 

Fragment. Weight, 50.87 grams. Pitted dull-black crust. Ground mass ash 
gray, containing chondrules, grains of nickel, iron, and troilite, some of them 
quite large. The Shejjard Collection, No. 212. 

Barbotan, Roquefort, Gascogne, France. Stone. Weight, 28.7 grams. Fell July 
24, 1790, 9 p. m. Section showing crust. Ground mass light gray and contain- 
ing chondrules and numerous metallic grains. The Shepard Collection, No. 126. 

Bath, Brown County, South Dakota. Stone. Weight, 25 grams. Fell August 29, 
1892. Fragment with crust and polished surface. Crust dull black, papillated 
and somewhat blebby. Ground mass ash gray flecked with rust and containing 
metallic grains and chondrules. Fine granular, compact. Catalogue number, 
83462, 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Tassin. 



Plate 2. 




CATALOGUE OF METEORITE COLLECTION. ft 7 7 

Bi'nr Cm'k, Jefferson County (?), Colorado. Iron. Weiglit, 27.73 ^'raiiif<. Found 1866. 
Thin section polished and etched, Widinanstiittian figures good, taniite plates 
distinct. Catalogue number, 46605. Section of mass (weight, 117.20 grams), 
showing troilite nodule. Section (weight, 62.05 grams) with well-marked Wid- 
manstilttian figures and distinct plates of ta;nite. Two vials of fragments, 
showing octahedral cleavage. Total weight, 307. OS grams. The Shepard Col- 
lection, No. 75. 

Bmirr Creek, AVest Kootenai District, British Columbia. Stone. Weight, 330.5 
grams. Fell May 26, 1893, 3 p. m. Mass with dull l)lack, papillated crust. 
Interior dark ash gray, containing chondrules and luetallic! grains. Structure 
coarse granular. Catalogue numl)er, 81155. Gift of James Hisloi>, through 
E. E. Howell. 

Bella Uvea, Sierra de Sail Francisco, Santiago Papasquiaro, Durango, ^Mexico. Iron. 
Weight, 152 grams. Found 1888. Irregularly shaped fragment, containing a 
cast of a large troilite nodule. One surface etched, showing Widmanstiittian 
figures and scattering flakes of troilite. Catalogue number, 48346. 

Bemdegn, Monte Santo, Bahia, Brazil. Iron. Weight, 102 grams. Foimd 1784. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 8. 

Benares, Krakhut, Bengal, India. Stone. Weiglit, 1 gram. Fell December 19, 
1798, 8 p. m. Fragment. Catalogue numl^er, 46076. Fragment with crust. 
Weight, 7.32 gram.s. Polished surface shows chondrules and scattered metallic 
grains. The Shepard Collection, No. 131. 

Bisrhluhe, Nikolaev, Turgai, Russia. Iron. Weight, 1,502.59 grams. Found 1888. 
Cross section of mass. One face etcheil, showing large, coarse Widmanstiittian 
figures, numerous small plates and nodules of schreibersite, and some troilite. 
Catalogue number, 84718. • 

BhJioprUle, Sumter County, South Carolina. Fragment from interior. Weight, 102 
grams. Catalogue number, 84697. 

Stone. Weight, 1,090.4 grams. Fell March 25, 1843. Mass with grayish 
vitreous crust. One vial of chladnite. The Shepard Collection, No. 166. 

Bithnrg (Albacher Miihle), Rhenish Prussia, Germany. Pallasite. Weight, 22 
grams. Found 1802. Fragment. Catalogue number, 47739. (jrift of R. de 
Kroustchoff. 

Bjelaja Zerkor, Ukraine, Kiev, Russia. Stone. Weight, 10.4 grams. Fell January 
16, 1796. Fragment from interior. Ground mass ash gray deeply stained with 
rust. Catalogue number, 81175. 

Bjelokriinitsehie, Volhynia, Russia. Stone. Weight, 7.7 grams. Fell January 1, 
1887. Fragment from interior, one surface polished. (Tround mass rust-brown 
from oxidation and containing numerous metallic grains. Structure chondritic. 
Catalogue number, 84598. 

Bjiirhole, South coast of Finland. Stone. Weight, 620 grams. Fell March 12, 1899. 
Fragments with crust. Crust surface dull black; in swellings and showing well- 
marked lines of flow. Ground mass ash gray, flecked with rust, and containing 
numerous large chondrules and scattering grains of troilite and nickel iron. The 
mass is traversed Ijy three metallic veins. Catalogue number, 84771. 

i>'o/(«;/;(7/7z, Bohemia, Austria. Iron. Weight, 0.95 gram. Found 1829. Fragment 
with original surface. One side etch(>d to show ^^'i<hnanst;ittiaIl figures. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 21. 

^^ Bonanza," Bolson de Mapimi, Mexico. Iron. Weight, 238.6 grams. Found 1837. 
Two fragments etched. The Shepard Collection, No. 27. 

Borknt, Marraaros, Hungary. Stone. Weight, 2 grams. i'\'il October 13, 1852, 3 
p. m. Fragment from interior. (Jround mass dark ash gray, containing numi'r- 
ous chondrules and metallic grains. Catalogue numljer, 82752. 



REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Boj/ctI, Wilson County, North Carolina. Stone. Weight, 9 grams. Fell May 24, 
1892. Fragment. Crust dull hlack and ])a|>illated. (iround mass dark ash 
gray and containing metallic grains and gray chondrules. Catalogue number, 
51670. Gift of B. E. Barnes. 

Braliin, Minsk, Russia. Pallasite. Weight, 14 grams. Found 1810. Fragment of 
the iron matrix from which all the stony matter lias disappeared. Catalogue 
number, 47741. 

\\'eight, 5.13 grams. Fragment of iron matrix from which the stony matter 
has disappeared. The Shepard Collection, No. 118. 

Braunmi, Haujitmannsdorf, Bohemia, Austria. Iron. Weight, 7.35 grams. Fell 
July 14, 1847, 3.45 a. m. Fragment. Catalogue number, 46511. 

Rectangular section containing troilite nodule. Etched surface shows a net- 
work of fine lines. Weight, 14.5 grams. The Shepard Collection, No. 45. 

Bremervorde (Gnarrenburg), Hanover, Germany. Stone. Weight, 12 grams. Fell 
May 13, 1855. Crust brownish black. Ground mass dark ash gray, containing 
gray chondrules and few metallic grains. Catalogue number, 48432. 

Brniham, Kiowa County, Kansas. Stony iron. Weight, 720 grams. Found 1890. 
(a) Mass having one surface polished; structure porous, having the sponge-like 
j)ores filled with olivine, (b) Section; the metallic matrix contains nodules of 
olivine and troilite. Catalogue numbers, (a) 49073, gift of George F. Kunz; (b) 
51347, gift of Roliert Hay. 

AVeight, 430 grams. Found 1890. Polished slice showing a sponge-like 
metallic niatrix with olivine filling the cavities. The Shepard Collection, 
No. 120. 

Burfinijloii, Coojierstown, (itsego County, New York. Iron. Weight, 76.87 grams. 
Plowed up before 1819. Fragment, one surface etched showing Widtnan- 
stiittiasi figures. Catalogue numl)er, 46064. 

Two i)ieces — larger one showing original surface. One face etched. Weight, 
1,503.3 grams. Smaller one containing drill liole. Etched on three faces. 
Weight, 1,528.3 grams. The Shepard Collection, No. 19. 

Bmtee, Goruckpur, India. Stone. Weight, 0.2 gram. Fell December 2, 1852. 
Fragment. The Shepard Collection, No. 176. 

Butier, Bates County, Misaauri. Iron. Weight, 270 grams. Found 1874. Section 
7.5 by 5.5 by 1.1 cm. One surface polished, showing troilite nodule. Cata- 
logue number, 47337. 

Section showing original surface. Etched face shows comb-like markings 
made \\\i of fine lines. AVidmanstiittian figures very distinct. Minute nodules 
of troilite are scattered over the surface. AVeiglit, 391 grams. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 86. 

£ute«ro, Goruckpur, India. Stone. Weight, 11 grams. Fell May 12, 1861. Frag- 
ment with crust; ground mass stained deep brown from oxidation of metallic 
particles. Catalogue number, 47334. 

Fragment with crust and polished surface. Metallic grains present in large 
amount. Olivine chondrules 1 mm. in diameter. Weight, 7.83 grams. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 190. 

Cahezii dc Muijo, Murcia, Spain. Stone. Weight, 13.7 grams. Fell August 18, 1870. 
Fragment from interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 210. 

Cabin Creek, Johnson County, Arkansas. Iron. Weight, 34 grams. Fell March 27, 
1886. Irregularly shaped fragment showing octahedral cleavage. Catalogue 
number, 47183. 

Cam/j?va (Lockport), Niagara County, New York. Iron. Weight, 155 grams. Found 
1818 (?). Slice polished and etched; shows Widmanstattian figures and troilite 
nodules. Catalogue number, 47361. 

Etched slabs, containing large nodule of troilite. Etch figures coarse and ap- 
l)roximately square. The Shepard Collection, No. 37. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900.— Tassin. 



Plate 3. 




The Casas Granges Meteoric Iron. 

For description see page 679. 



CATALOGUE OF METEORITE COLLECTION. 679 

Campo del Pncara, Argentina. Stony iron. Weight, 0.192 gram. Found 1879. 
Fragment. The Shepard Collection, No. 112. 

Canyon Diablo, Arizona. Iron. Weight, 1,890 pounds. Found 1891. (a) Cross 
section 37 by 41 by 2 cm. Etched. Shows numerous large troilite nodules; 
also graphitic nodules with hepatic markings of nickel iron. WidmanstJittian 
figures coarse with numerous flakes of schreibersite. Weight, 8,955.54 gramn; 
(b) complete individual; weight, 1(3,210.58 grams; (c) complete individual; 
weight, 32,080.98 grams; (d) complete individual; weight, 338,266 grams; 
(e) complete individual largely altered to limonite; (f) slice showing graphitic 
nodule containing veins of nickel iron; (g) complete individual; weight, 435,302 
grams. The individuals have their surfaces indented with the characteristic 
pittings. Catalogue numbers, (a) 83442; (b) 83443; (c) 83444; (d) 83445; 
(e) 51109; (f) 83460; (g) 83774. (See Plate 1.) 

Cape Girardeau, Missouri. Stone. Weight, 4 grams. Fell August 14, 1846. Frag- 
ment with crust. Ground mass ash gray flecked with rust spots and containing 
chondrules and metallic grains. Catalogue number, 47402. 

Ca]>e iron, Cape Colony, South Africa. Iron. Weight, 28.95 grams. Found 1793. 
Fragment. Catalogue number, 46069. 

Weight, 182.5 grams. Section showing portion of original surface and con- 
taining troilite nodule. The Shepard Collection, No. 10. 

Carthage, Smith County, Tennessee. Iron. Weight, 65 grams. Found 1840. Frag- 
ment. Catalogue number, 47338. 

Weight, 43.1 grams. Section showing Widmanstiittian figures; also delicate 
lines of tsenite. The Shepard Collection, No. 36. 

Casas Grandes, Chihuahua, Mexico. Iron. Weight, 1,317,920 grams. Complete 
individual. (See Plates 1 and 3.) 

Casey County, Kentucky. Iron. Weight, 3.30 grams. Found 1877. Fragment. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 89. 

Castalia, Nash County, North Carolina. Stone. Weight, 19.7 grams. Fell May 14, 
1874, 2.30 p. m. Fragment with dull black papillated crust. Ground mass ash 
gray; granular and compact. Catalogue number, 47342. 

Casline, Hancock County, Maine. Stone. Weight, fragment. Fell May 20, 1848. 
Fragment with crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 171. 

Cereseto, near Otliglio, Alessandria, Piedmont, Italy. Stone. Weight, 65 grams. 
Fell July 17, 1840. Fragment with crust. Catalogue number, 84792. 

Chandakapur, Berar, India. Stone. Weight, 3.9 grams. Fell June 6, 1838, 12 noon. 
Fragment with crust and polished surface. Ground mass stained with rust. 
Catalogue number, 45700. 

Weight, 1.05 grams. Powder and angular fragments. The Shepard Collection, 
No. 159. 

Chantonnay, Vendee, France. Stone. Weight, 12.1 grams. Fell August 5, 1812, 
2 a. m. Fragment. Ground mass black, with metallic grains and gray chon- 
drules. Catalogue number, 81168. Gift of R. de Kroustchoff. 

Weight, 45.1 grams. Two fragments. The Shepard Collection, No. 141. 

Charcas, San Luis Potosi, Mexico. Iron. Weight, 61 grams. Fragment containing 
nodule f)f troilite. Catalogue numbei', 48489. 

Charlotte, Dickson County, Tennessee. Iron. Weight, 2.70 grams. Fell July or 
August, 1835. Triangularly shaped section. The Shepard Collection, No. 25. 

Charsonrille, near Orleans, Meung Sur Loire, Loiret, France. Stone. Weight, 54 
grams. Fell November 23, 1810, 1.30 p. m. Fragment with crust. Crust i)it- 
ted and somewhat oxidized. Ground mass granular and compact, ash gray, 
stained with rust, and traversed by delicate black veins. Metallic grains abun- 
dant. Catalogue number, 47969. (a) Fragment from interior; weight, 3. 77 grams, 
(b) ["Bois de Fontaine"] fragments and powder from interior; weight, 3.27 
grams. Catalogue numbers, (a) 138; (b) 150. 
NAT MUS 1900 46 



680 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Chateau-Renard, Montargis, Trigueres, Loiret, France. Stone. Weight, 3.74 grams. 
Fell June 12, 1841. Fragment from interior. Ground mass ash gray, compact, 
and containing numerous metallic grains. The Shepard Collection, No. 162. 

ChemnUz, Hungary. Iron. Weight, 75.27 grams. Found 185.3. Part of a mass, 
perhaps Bitburg. The iron has apparently been heated in a forge. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 107. 

Cherokee County (not Losttown), Georgia. Iron. Weight, 189 grams. Found 1894. 
Slab, cross section of mass; etched, showing grains of troilite and Widmanstilttian 
figures made up of broad plates 1 to 5 mm. wide. Catalogue number, 83495. 
Gift of ( leorgia Geological Survey. 

Clu'sterrille, Chester County, South Caroluia. Iron. Weight, 91 grams. Found 
1847. (a) Irregularly shaped section; weight, 36.4 grams; etched surface shows 
a network of fine lines, (b) Rectangular section; weight, 54.6 grams; etched 
surface as above. The Shepard Collection, Nos. (a) 42, (b) 43. 

Chile. Weight, 4.76 grams. Fragment consisting entirely of nickel iron. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 74. 

Chidafinnee, Cleberne County, Alabama. Iron. Weight, 8.6 grams. Found 1873. 
Fragment. Catalogue number, 47322. 

Weight, 54 grams. Thin slab, etched. Widmanstilttian figures broad and 
well outlined. The Shepard Collection, No. 84. 

Claiborne (Lime Creek), Clarke County, Alabama. Iron. Weight, 3.7 grams. 
Found 1834. Fragment. The Shepard Collection, No. 24. 

Ckvjirater, Yernon Count}', AVisconsin. Stone. Weight, 9.35 grams. Fell March 
25, 1865. Slice polished; made up of coarse, transparent, nonmetallic grains, 
with scattering grains of nickel iron and chondrules, the whole resembling sand- 
stone. The Shepard Collection, No. 198. 

C/t'ce;Zand (Lea Iron), east Tennessee. Iron. Weight, 260 grams. Found 1860. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 99. 

Weight, 221 grams. A cross section of mass with polished and etched sur- 
faces. AVidmanstilttian figures broad; contains nodule of troilite. Catalogue 
number, 46525. 

Coahnila (Smithsonian iron), Mexico. Iron. Weight, 88.3 grams. Part of mass. 
Etched surface shows cubic structure. The Shepard Collection, No. 94. 

Cold Bokkeveld, Cape Colony, South Africa. Stone. Weight (a). 4 grams; (b), 3 
grams. Fell October 13, 1838, 9 a. m. (a) Two fragments, dull black with 
white specks. A carbonaceous meteorite containing a bituminous-like sul)stance 
from which a wax-like carbon compound may be separated, (b) Fragment. 
Catalogue numbers (a), 8069, gift of J. Vorsfeld; (b) 81174, gift of R. de 
Kroustchoff. 

Weight, 9.27 grams. Fragment of a dull black color, flecked with white. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 160. 

Colfax, Rutherford County, North Carolina. Iron. Weight, 315 grams. Found 
1880. Portion of mass, one face etched, showing Widmanstiittian figures. Cat- 
alogue number, 48824. Gift of S. W. Cramer. 

Coo/;er/o?/'n, Robertson County, Tennessee. Iron. Weight, 633 grams. Cross section 
of mass 16 by 10 centimeters. One face etched. Widmanstilttian figures dis- 
tinct, made up of broad plates 2 to 8 millimeters wide. Catalogue number, 45746. 
Gift of D. Crockett through J. B. Lindsley. 

Weight, 327.83 grams. Two slices etched, showing Widmanstiittian figures 
made up of broad plates 5 to 7 millimeters in width. The Shepard Collection, 
No. 67. 

Cosbys C\eek, Cocke County, Tennessee. Iron. Weight, 7.24 grams. Fragment 
somewhat oxidized. Cleavage structure prominent. Catalogue number, 46624. 
Weight, 69.16 grams. One lot of fragments, some of which show octahedral 
cleavage. The Shepard Collection, No. 32. 



CATALOGUE OF METEORITE COLLECTION. 681 

Crab Orcliant, Crab Orchard Mountains, Powder Mill Creek, Rockwood, Tennessee. 
Stony iron. Weight, 77.9 grams. Found 1887. Two slabs, weight, 39.9 grams 
and 38 grams, with polished surfaces showing the metallic matrix containing 
siliceous grains of olivine, bronzite, etc. The metallic portion is about evenly 
distributed, except for two masses, one of which has a diameter of 1.8 centi- 
meters; these have been etched and show well-marked Widmanstiittian figures. 
Catalogue number, 47736. Gift of Ward and Howell. 

Cranberri/ Plains, Poplar Hill, Virginia. Iron. Weight, 7.92 grams. Found 1852. 
Fragment. The Shepard Collection, No. 50. 

Cranbourne, Victoria, Australia. Iron. Found 1854. One lot of fragments that 
have been heated in hydrogen; weight, 25.3 grams. Troilite nodule from mass; 
weight, 71.5 grams, (b) Yarra Yarra River; found 1858; weight, 15 grams. 
Catalogue numbers, 47329, 47330; (b) 47738. 

Fragment much oxidized and somewhat decomposed from occlude<l Lawren- 
cite; weight, 10.6 grams, (b) Yarra Yarra River; found 1858; weight, 21 grams. 
Oxidized fragment. The Shepard Collection, No. 59; (b) No. 59a. 

Cronshtdt, Orange River, Orange Free State, South Africa. Stone. Weight, 12.5 
grams. Fell November 19, 1877. Fragment with crust and polished surface. 
Crust dull l)Iack, somewhat pitted and in swellings. Ground mass ash gray 
with abundant metallic grains. Chondrules gray and white. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 225. 

CroM Timbers, Red River, Texas. Iron. Weight, 10.6 grams. Known 1808. Chis- 
eled fragment. Catalogue number, 47336. 

AV eight 63.7 grams. Two pieces, one 62.85 grams; the other a cleavage crystal, 
0.85 gram. The Shepard Collection, No. 18. 

C*/«</iia»a, Harrison County, Kentucky. Stone. Weight, 1.77 grams. Fell January 
23, 1877. Fragment with crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 223. 

Dalton, Whitfield County, Georgia. Iron. Weight, 36.4 grams. Found 1877. 
Fragment of the mass described l)y Shepard. Etched, showing coarse Widman- 
stiittian figures. Catalogue number, 44590. 

Weight, 735.71 grams. Two pieces — part of first mass found. Etched face 
shows broad Widmanstiittian figures, with scattering plates of taenite. Surface 
more or less decomposed from presence of Lawrencite. The Shepard Collec- 
tion, No. 90. 

Daniels Kuil, Griqualand, South Africa. Stone. Weight, 4.6 grams. Fell March 20, 
1868. Fragment from interior. Ground mass ash gray flecked with rust. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 204. 

Deal, Monmouth County, New Jersey. Stone. Weight, 4.19 grams. Fell August 14, 
1829. Fragment with crust. Ground mass ash gray, fine granular and compact, 
with delicate veins apparently filled with nickel iron somewhat oxidized. Struc- 
ture chondritic with numerous metallic grains. The Shepard Collection, No. 157. 

Denton Count;/ (near Austin), Texa.s. Iron. Weight, 7.97 grams. Found 1856, 
Etched fragment showing coarse Widmanstiittian figures. The Shepard Col- 
lection, No. 63. 

Descubridura, Catoroze, San Luis Potosi, Mexico. Iron. Weight, 24.8 grams. 
Known 1780. Oblong slab, etched. The Shepard Collection, No. 3. 

L>/(«r7?i.s«Za, Kangra, India. Stone. Weight, 47.5 grams. Fell July 14, 1860, 2.30 p. m. 
Fragment from interior. (Tround mass ash gray, granular and compact, and con- 
taining large and small chondrules and metallic grains. Distributed through 
the mass are large, fine, granular bluish-gray nodules. Catalogue number, 47323. 
AVeight, 259.2 grams. Two fragments, (a) Fragment with crust. CruiSt 
faint, shining, and much pitted. Ground mass ash gray, compact, with finer 
grained bluish-gray nodules and oxidized metallic grains distributed through it. 
(b) Fragment from interior, one surface polished. Two faces show fragmentary 
slickensides. The Shepard Collection, No. 189. 



682 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Djati-Pmgilon, Alastoewa, Ngawi, Java. Stone. Weight, 469 grams. Fell March 
19, 1884. Fragment with dark-brown crust. Ground mass fine granular, com- 
pact, and containing numerous metallic grains with large and small chondrules. 
Color, dark brown. Catalogue number, 47731. Gift of the government of 
Netherlands India. 

Dona Inez, Atacama, Chile. Stony iron. Weight, 59.5 grams. Found 1888. Por- 
tion of mass showing original and polished surfaces. The metallic and stony 
parts are about equal in amount, the latter Ijeing distributed through the mass 
in reticulated shapes. The specimen exhibits in a slight degree the character- 
istic cracked surface. The Shepard Collection, No. 117. 

Doroninsk, Daurien, Irkutsk, Siberia. Stone. Weight, 7.7 grams. Fell April 6, 
1805. Fragment with crust. Ground mass dark ash gray, with small grayish 
white chondrules and metallic grains. Catalogue number, 81173. Gift of R. de 
Kroustchoff. 

Drake Creek {nea,T Nashville), Davidson County, Tennessee. Stone. Weight, 28 
grams. Fell May 9, 1827. Fragment with dull black papillated crust. Ground 
mass granular, ash gray, and containing metallic grains and small white chon- 
drules. Catalogue number, 47341. 
Weight, 4.18 grams. Fragment wath crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 154. 

Durango, Mexico. Iron. Weight, 45.43 grams. Found 1804. Fragment etched 
with Widmanstiittian figures. One surface deeply jiitted. The Shepard Collec- 
tion, No. 13. 

Duruma, Mombas, Wanikaland, East Africa. Stone. Weight, 1.5 grams. Fell 
March 6, 1853. Fragment from interior. Ground mass ash-gray with gray 
chondrules and metallic grains, the latter occasionally coarse. Catalogue number, 
84593. Gift of G. P. Merrill. 

Eagle Station, Carroll County, Kentucky. Stony iron. Weight, 36 grams. Found 
1880. Polished section showing sponge-like structure. The pores contain nod- 
ules of olivine and troilite. Catalogue number, 49074. Gift of George F. Kunz. 

Eichstadt, Bavaria, Germany. Stone. Weight, 1 gram. Fell February 19, 1785. 
Fragment from interior. Ground mass coarse granular. The Shepard Collec- 
tion, No. 127. 

Eisenberg, Altenberg, Saxony, Germany. Iron. Weight, 9.7 grams. Found 1873. 
Fragment. The Shepard Collection, No. 85. 

Elbogen, Bohemia, Austria. Iron. Weight, 4.45 grams. Found 1400. Fragment. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 1. 

El Capitan, El Capitan Mountains, New Mexico. Iron. Found 1893. (a) Chiseled 
fragment showing cleavage structure. Etched, Widmanstiittian figures, coarse. 
Weight, 67 grams. Gift of C. R. Biederman. (b) Polished cross section of 
mass 19.5 by 1 1 by 0. 7 cm. Weight, 573 grams. Gift of E. E. Howell. Catalogue 
numbers, (a) 81153; (b) 83496. 

Emmitshimj, Frederick County, Maryland. Iron. AVeight, 5.5 grams. Found 1854. 
Etched fragment showing coarse W^idmanstiittian figures. The Shepard Collec- 
tion, No. 56. 

Ensisheim, Elsass, Germany. Fragment. Weight, 3 grams. Fell November 16, 1492, 

11.30 p. m. One surface with black strise resembling slickensides. Ground mass, 

granular compact, containing chondrules, nickel iron, and troilite. Catalogue 

number, 47740. 

Weight, 4.3 grams. Two fragments from interior; one vial of powder, weight, 

, 0.098 grams. 

Erath County, Texas. Iron. Weight, 115 grams. Fragment etched. Catalogue 
number, 49053. Gift of Ward and Howell. 

Erxlehen, Saxon Prussia, Germany. Stone. Weight, 30.60 grams. Fell April 15, 
1812, 4 p. m. Fragment with crust; also fragment from interior and vial of 
powder. The Shepard Collection, No. 140. 



Report of U. S. National Museum, 1900. — Tassin. 



Plate 4. 





The Felix Meteorite. 
For description see page 683. 



CATALOGUE OF METEORITE COLLECTION. 683 

EstherviUe, Emmet County, Iowa. Stony iron. Weight, (a) 292 grams; (b) 96 
grams. Fell May 10, 1879, 5 p. m. (a) Stony fragment; weight, 145 grams. 
Fragment showing peckhamite, weight 82 grams. Nine masses, weight 65 grams, 
consisting chiefly of metal, and ranging in size from that of a pea to that of a 
walnut; their surfaces show rounded knobs, jjartly steel white and partly steel 
blue to black in color. (b) 31 small fragments. Catalogue numbers, (a) 
20282, gift of C. P. Birge; (b) 46,072. 

One hundred and nine complete individuals varying in size from that of a pea 
to that of a hen's egg; their surfaces show rounded knobs and are partly steel 
white and partly steel blue to black in color. A section shows the iron in 
spongiform masses, nodules, and irregular flakes distributed through the stony 
ground mass. The olivine nodules from above show a vitreous crust with 
marked lines of flow. Again they are coated w^th nickel iron. Two masses of 
chassignite. The Shepard Collection, No. 121. 

Five masses composed chiefly of stone show deeply pitted crust. Ground 
mass containing large nodules of olivine, nickel, iron, and troilite. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 121. 

Farmington, Washington County, Kansas. Stone. Weight, 489 grams. Fell June 
25, 1890, 1 p. m. Mass having the appearance of a dark -gray dolerite. Crust 
smooth, showing scales or blisters in spots. Ground mass containing black 
chondrules; also white radiated chondrules and l^ronze-yellow metallic grains. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 242. 

Fayette County, Texas. Stone. Weight, 247 grams. Found 1878. Two fragments. 
One, weight 137 grams, with a polished surface containing a black vein; another, 
weight 110 grams. Both show crust, somewhat decomposed, but with character- 
istic pittings. Ground mass fine grained, compact; greenish brown. Catalogue 
number, 47912. Gift of Ward and Howell. 

Felix, Perry County, Alabama. Stone. Weight, 1,881.77 grams. Fell May, 1900. 
Complete individual. Crust surface dull black in blebs and swellings and 
indented with l)road shallow pits. Ground mass dark ash-gray, fine grained, 
and containing numerous small chondrules which vary but little in color from 
the ground mass. No metallic veins are visible to the unaided eye. Catalogue 
number, 84744. (See Plate 4.) 

Fisher, Polk County, Minnesota. Stone. Weight, 1,311.164 grams. Fell April 9, 
1894. Complete individual of an irregular shape; surface completely covered 
with a dull black, somewhat papillated, and much pitted crust. Catalogue 
number, 84375. 

Floyd Mountain, Indian Valley Township, Pulaski County, Virginia. Iron. Weight 
8 grams, Found 1887. Drillings. Catalogue number, 51849. 

Forest City, Leland, Winnebago County, Iowa. Stone. Weight, 127 grams. Fell 
May 2, 1890, 5.15 p. m. (a) Catalogue number, 49095. Gift of George F. Kunz. 
(b) Catalogue number, 49097. Gift of J. P. Dolliver. Fragment with crust. Sur- 
face indented with broad, shallow, and conical pittings. Ground mass ash gray 
with coarse and fine metallic grains and containing chondrules. (c) Catalogue 
mnnber, 51986. Complete individual covered with thick dull-black crust and 
surface indented with broad, shallow, and conical pittings; also fragment showing 
interior. 

Forsyth, Monroe County, Georgia. Stone. Weight, 9.50 grams. Fell May 8, 1829, 
3.30 p. m. Two fragments; one with (;rust and one from interior. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 156. 

Fort Duncan, Maverick County, Texas. Iron. Weight, 116 grams. Found 1882. 
Slab, one surface etched. Etching develops Neumann lines as a network on a 
granular or stippled ground; small grains of troilite are seen. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 96. 



684 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Frankfort, Franklin Count}', Alabama. Stone. Weight, 47 grams. Fell December 
5, 1868. Fragment with shining black papillated crust having well-marked lines 
of flow. The Shepard Collection, No. 205. 

Fukutomi, Kinejima, Hizen, Japan. Stone. Weight, 9.7 grams. Fell March 19, 

1882. Fragment with black papillated crust. Ground mass dark ash gray with 
numerous light and dark chondrules and some metallic grains. Catalogue 
number, 47659. Gift of the Educational Museum at Tokio. 

FuUehpore, Allahabad, Doab, India. Stone. Weight, 2.22 grams. Fell November 
30, 1822. Fragment with crust and polished surface. The Shepard Collection, 
No. 148. 

(Targranii/Zo, Jalisco, Mexico. Stone. Weight, 4. 14 grams. Fell August or Septem- 
ber 17, 1879. Fragment from interior. Ground mass coarse granular. Cat- 
alogue number, 46074. 

Weight, 511 grams. Mass with crust showing lines of flow and pittings. 
Fragment from interior; one lot of fragments and powder. The Shepard Col- 
lection, No. 229. 

Glrgenti, Sicily. Stone. Weight, 1.5 grams. Fell February 10, 1853, 1 p. m. Frag- 
ment from interior. Ground mass ash gray, fine granular. One surface shows 
a metallic slickenside. The Shepard Collection, No. 177. 

Glorletta, Glorietta Mountains, Santa Fe County, New Mexico. Iron. Weight, 
853.40 grams. Found 1884. Section. Etched surface shows poor Widman- 
stiittian figures, with one large nodule of troilite and several small ones. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 98. 

Weight, 380 grams. Polished slab, 13.3 by 6.6 l)y 1 cm. Catalogue number, 
46509. 

Grand Rapids (Walker Township), Michigan. Iron. Weight, 47,650 grams. Found 

1883. Slab, 16 by 11 by 2.5. One surface polished and etched. Widmanstiittian 
figures distinct, the bands made up of thin plates in parallel l)undles. (b) A 
cast of original mass. Catalogue number, 45939. Gift of G. C. Pulcher. 

AVeight, 34.5 grams. The Shepard Collection, No. 97. 
Greenbrier County (3 miles north of White Sulphur Springs), West Virginia. Iron. 
Weight, 11 grams. Found 1880. Contains crystals of chromite. Catalogue 
number, 47735. 

(rreenZami (not Ovifak.) Iron. Weight, 15.65 grams. Found before 1860. Fragment 
etched. Widmanstiittian figures fair. Catalogue number, 45698. 

Grosnaja (Mikenskoi), River Terek, Caucasus, Russia. Stone. Weight, 4.5 grams. 
Fell June 28, 1861. Fragment with crust. Crust differs but little in color from 
the black, compact, fine granular chondritic ground mass. Metallic grains few. 
Catalogue number, 47969. 

Grossliebenthul, near Odessa, Cherson, Russia. Stone. Weight, 8 grams. Fell 
November 19, 1881. Fragment from interior. Ground mass ash gray, containing 
white chondrules and metallic grains. A thin vein, composed apparently of 
nickel iron more or less oxidized, passes through the specimen. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 233. 

Hainholz, Minden, Westphalia, Germany. Stony iron. Weight, 7 grams. Found 
1856. Fragment, one surface polished, showing metallic grains scattered through 
a black fine-grained ground mass of bronzite and asmanite. Other surfaces 
stained with rust. Catalogue number, 47697. 

Weight, 12.15 grams. Fragment with polished surface. Metallic grains small 
and S{!attered through a mass of bronzite in which are relatively large grains of 
olivine with some asmanite and troilite. The Shepard Collection, No. 114. 



CATALOGUE OF METEORITE COLLECTION. 685 

Harrison Counti/, Indiana. Stone. Weight, 10 grams. Fell March 28, 1859. Frag- 
ment with crust. Ground mass light ash gray with howardite chondrules and 
few, if any, metallic grains. Catalogue number, 46523. Gift of J. Berrien 
Lindsley. 

Weight, 36.4 grams. Fragment with crust and j)olished surface. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 187. 

Ilarlford, Linn County, Iowa. Stone. Weight, 1,602.35 grams. Fell February 25, 
1847, 2.45 p. m. Mass with thick dull black crust, pitted and marked with swells 
and furrows as a result of flow. Interior ash gray, one surface marked with a 
metallic slickensides, much oxidized. The mass is traversed by metallic veins or 
lines of fracture which mark slipping zones with slickensided surfaces. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 170. 

Weight, 23.7' grams, B. Fell February 25, 1847, 2.45 p.m. Fragment with 
dull black crust, (b) Fragment with dull l^lack blebby crust. Catalogue num- 
bers, 47746; (b) 81348. 

Henry County, Virginia. Iron. AVeight, 30.25 grams. Found 1889. Oxidized 
fragment showing cleavage. Catalogue namber, 49172. Gift of H. B. Battle. 

Hessle (near Upsala), Malar See, Sweden. Stone. Weight, 11.2 grams. Fell Janu- 
ary 1, 1869, 12.30 p. m. Comjilete individual with dull black, papillated crust. 
Catalogue number, 45699. 

AVeight, 259.8 grams. Four fragments with thin, dull black, papillated crust. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 206. 

Hex River Mountains, Cape Colony, South Africa. Iron. Weight, 14.3 grams. 
Found 1882. Section. Etched surface shows Neumann's lines. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 95. 

Holland's Store, Chattooga County, Georgia. Iron. Found 1887. Cliiiping. 
Catalogue numl^er, 47744. Gift of George F. Kunz. 

Homestead (West Liberty), Iowa County, Iowa. Stone. Weight, 79 grams; (1)) 322 
grams. Fell February 12, 1875, 10.15 p.m. Fragment with thin, dull black 
crust. Ground mass dark ash gray, granular, and compact, (b) Complete 
individual covered M'ith dull black and somewhat blebby crust. Surface 
indented Avith shallow pits. Catalogue nimiber, 19361. Gift of J. R. Eastman, 
(b) 45275. 

Weij,ht, 3,185 grams. Four complete individuals covered with crust and 
indented with broad, shallow pits. Crust dull black, thin, and somewhat 
blebby. Three fragments showing interior having an abundance of metallic 
grains and a chondritic structure. The Shepard Collection, No. 219. 

Honohdu, Oahu, Hawaiian Islands. Stone. Weight, 1.35 grams. Fell September 
27, 1825. Fragment with crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 152. 

jHrosc/imo, Agram, Croatia, Austria. Iron. Weight, 0.737 gram. Fell May 26, 1751. 
Etched fragment showing Widmanstiittian figures. The Shepard Collection, 
No. 2. 

fnillar, Atacama, Chile. Stony iron. Weight, 25.75 grams. Found 1827. Frag- 
ment; the metallic matrix as well as the olivine have undergone decomposition. 
Vial of fragments of matrix with little or no olivine. Vial of fragments of iron 
and olivine but little altered. The Shepard Collection, No. HI. 

Weight, 197 grams. Found about 1800. Three specimens of the spongiform 
metallic matrix, .somewhat oxidized and containing but little of the stony por- 
tion. Catalogue number, 12116. 

Inca (Llano del Inca), 35 leagues southeast of Toltal, Atacama, Chile. Stony iron. 
Weight, 66 grams. Found 1888. Section of iron matrix containing siliceous 
grains of olivine, bronzite, augite, etc. Catalogue numljer, 49076. Gift of Ward 
and Howell. 



086 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 19CK). 

Indarbt, Schnscha, Elisabetlipol, Caucasia, Russia. Stone. Weight. 1.4 grams. 

Fell April 7. 1891. Fragment from interior. Ground mass black with scattering 

black chondrules. Catalogue number, 84698. 
Iridell, Bosque County, Texas. Iron. Weight, 98 grams. Found 1898. Rough 

fragment, with small etched surface showing granular structure and fine Neu- 
mann lines. Catalogue number, 84824. 
Itapicm-u-mmm, M&rAn\\a,o, Br&7A\. Stone. Weight, 9. 7 grams. Fell March, 1879. 

Fragment with dull black crust. Ground mass ash gray, fine granular, and 

compact. Catalogue number, 47648. 
Ivonpah, San Bernardino County, California. Iron. Weight, 70 grams. Found 

1880. One lot turnings. Catalogue number, 46629. Gift California State Mining 

Bureau. 

Weight, 11.75 grams. Section etched showing Widmanstattian figures. The 

Shepard Collection, No. 92. 
Jamestown, Stutsman County, North Dakota. Iron. AVeight, 74.15 grams. Found 

1885. Cross section of mass with polished surface. The Shepard Collection, 

No. 101. 
Jefferson, 30 miles from Denver, Colorado. Iron. Weight, 41 grams. Fell June, 

1867. Fragment containing troilite nodule; somewhat decomposed from occluded 

chlorides. The Shepard Collection, No. 81. 
Jenny's Creek, Wayne County, West Virginia. Iron. Weight, 25 grams. Found 

1883. Fragments slKjwing cleavage octahedrons. Catalogue number, 46361. 

Gift of G. M. Crabtree. 
Jerome (Smoky Hill River), Gove County, Kansas. Stone. Weight, (a) 101 grams; 

(b) 9 grams. Found April 10, 1894. Section of mass, one surface polished. 

Ground mass fine granular compact containing numerous small grains of nickel, 

iron, and many chondrules of bronzite and olivine, with fragmental crystals of 

olivine, bronzite, and some pyroxene, also some plagioclase fragments. No 

troilite present. Crust and ground mass rust-brown from oxidation, (b) Slice. 

Catalogue number, 845 7. 
Jewell Hill, Madison County, North Carolina. Iron. Weight, 0.91 gram. Found 

1854. Thin section etched. Catalogue number, 46519. Gift of J. Berrien 

Lindsley. 
Weight, 31.85 grams. Rectangular section showing portion of surface. Etched 

face showing Widmanstattian figures. Taenite plates well developed. The 

Shepard Collection, No. 54. 
Jhung, Punjaub, India. Stone. Weight, 1.22 grams. Fell June, 1873. Four frag- 
ments. Catalogue number, 46626. 
Jigalowka, Charkow, Russia. Stone. Weight, 26.2 gram. Fell October 13, 1787. 

Fragment from interior. Ground mass ash gray, fine granular. Catalogue 

number, 81164. Gift of R. de Kroustchoff. 
Joe Wriglit Mountain, near Batesville, Independence County, Arkansas. Iron. 

Weight, 309 grams. Found 1884. Catalogue number, 47970.' Weight, 20 grams. 

Section showing typical Widmanstattian figures. The markings are broad and 

regular, with large plates of troilite. The Shepard Collection, No. 100. 
Jonzac, Charente inf(5rieure, France. Stone. Weight, 0.17 gram. Fell June 13, 

1819. Fragment. The Shepard Collection, No. 143. 
Jurinas, Ardeche, Languedoc, France. Stone. Weight, 2 grams. Fell June 15, 

1821, 3.30 p. m. Fragment with shiny black, somewhat blebby crust. Ground 

mass coarse, granular, containing augite, anorthite, and small amount of troilite. 

Catalogue number, 4(5073. 

Weight, 39.5 grams. Fragment from interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 

146. 
Kaba, near Debreczin, Hungary. Stone. Weight, 6.20 grams. Fell April 15, 1857. 

Fine powder. The Shepard Collection, No. 182. 



CATALOGUE OF METEORITE COLLECTION. 687 

Karakol, Kirgliis Stejipesi, Russia. Stone. Weight, 4.2 gramn. Fell May 9, 1840. 
Fragment with crnst. Ground mass ash gray, line granular. Catalogue number, 
81167. Gift of R. de Kroustchoff. 

Kendall Coiinti/, Texas. Iron. Weight, 767 grams. End section of mass with crust 
and etched surfaces. Fetched face exhibits a brecciated appearance and con- 
tains schreibersite and troilite, the latter more or less oxidized, ("atalogue 
number, 84810. 

/vV///on Cmm<i/, Kentucky. Iron. Weight, 146 grams. Found 1889. Slab 4 by 4.2 
by 1 cm. Etched surface shows faint Widmanstiittian figures and scattering 
grains of troilite. Catalogue number, 83467. 

A't'r///s, Cotes du Nord, France. Stone. Weight, 2.70 grams. Fell Noveml)er 26, 
1874. Fragment with crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 218. 

AVniOfur, Morbihan, Bretagne, France. Stone. Weight, 52.65 grams. Fell May 22, 
1869, 10 p. m. Fragment from interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 207. 

Kesen, Iwate, Japan. Stone. Weight, 218 grams. Fell June 13, 1850. Mass with 
dull, black crust. Surface blebby and indented with broad shallow pits. One 
surface polished, ground mass ash gray, granular compact, and traversed by 
several black veins and checks. Catalogue number, 83461. 

Khairpur, Bhawalpur, Mooltan, India. Stone. Weight, 26.75 grams. Fell Septem- 
ber 23, 1873. Fragment with polished surface and crust. Crust dull black, 
blebby, and showing lines of flow. Ground mass dark gray, compact. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 217. 

Knyahinya, near Nagy Berezna, Hungary. Stone. Weight, 32.83 grams. Fell 
June 9, 1866, 5 p. m. Complete individual covered with thin black crust and 
having a pitted surface. Fragment with crust and polished surface. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 200. 

Fragment with crust. Crust surface indented with broad, shallow, and coni- 
cal pits. Another surface polished. Ground mass ash gray, granular, and 
compact. Weight, 27.8 grams. Catalogue number, 47.343. 

Krasnojarsk, Jeniseisk, Siberia. Pallasite. Weight, 327 grams. Found 1749. Sec- 
tion. The spongiform metallic matrix incloses nodules of olivine of varying 
diameters, more or less transparent and vitreous, and varying in color from 
honey yellow to nearly black. Also fragments of matrix from which the olivine 
has disappeared. The Shepard Collection, No. 110. 

Weight, 6.8 grams. Fragment of iron matrix containing some olivine. Cata- 
logue number, 45696. 

Krasnoj-Ugol, R;isan, Russia. Stone. Weight, 5.8 grams. Fell September 9, 1829. 
Fragment from interior. Ground mass ash gray, granular and compact. Cata- 
logue number, 81176. Gift of R. de Kroustchoff. 

Kuleschovka, Poltawa, Russia. Stone. Weight, 5.95 grams. Fell March 12 (mid- 
night), 1811. Fragment with crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 139. 

Weight, 5.4 grams. Two fragments each weighing 2.7 grams. One with crust, 
other from interior. Ground mass ash-gray, fine granular. Catalogue number, 
81165. Gift of R. de Kroustchoff. 

L'Aigle, Normandie, Orne, France. Stone. AVeight, 11.35 grams. Fell April 26, 
1803, 1 p. m. Fragment with crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 132. 

Weight, 56 grams. Fragment with brownish i)lack crust. Crust surface pitted 
and stained with iron oxide. Ground mass ash-gray, stained with rust; granular, 
compact. Catalogue number, 46512. 

La Becasse, Indre, France. Stone. Weight, 5 grams. Fell January 31, 1879. Frag- 
ment with crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 228. 

7/f( OnZ/^, near Grasse, Var, France. Iron. Weight, 1.48 grams. Found 1600. Frag- 
ment. The Shepard Collection, No. 4. 



088 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

La Grange, Oldham County, Kentucky. Iron. Weight, 223 grams. Found 1860. 
Fragment 4 by 4.5 by 1.5 cm. Catalogue number, 46520. (3rift of J. Berrien 
Lindsley. 

Weight, 2,002 grams, (a) Section marked "Oldham," weight, 1,019 grams. 
Widmanstiittian figures slightly indicated, (b) Section, weight, 983 grams, with 
well-marked Widmanstiittian figures. The Shepard Collection, No. 69. 

/vfmct'. Loir et Cher, France. Stone. Weight, 9 grams. Fell July 23, 1872. Weight, 
7 grams. Fragment from interior. Catalogue number, 84773. Fragment with 
dull-black blebby crust. Ground mass dark gray, fine grained, compact. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 215. 

Lenarto, Scharosch, Hungary. Iron. Weight, 17.52 grams. Found 1814. Two 
fragments. One polished, weight, 1 gram. One, weight, 16.52 grams, etched 
on both sides, showing Widmanstiittian figures. The Shepard Collection, No. 17. 

Les Ormes, Yonne, France. Stone. Weight, 0.70 gram. Fell October 1, 1857. 
Fragments from interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 183. 

Lex'mgton County, South Carolina. Iron. Weight, 65 grams. Found 1880. Frag- 
ment showing octahedral structure. Catalogue number, 18876. 

Weight, 3,992 grams. Part of mass containing laige troilite nodule. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 93. 

Lick Creek, Davidson County, North Carolina. Iron. Weight, 9.72 grams. Found 
1879. Fragment. The Shepard Collection, No. 91. 

Lime Creek, Walker County, Alabama. Iron. Weight, 14 grams. Found 1832. 
Fragment. Catalogue number, 47737. 

Limerick, Adare, Ireland. Stone. Weight, 24 grams. Fell September 10, 1813. 
Fragment from interior. Catalogue number, 84793. 

Lion River, Great Namaqualand, South Africa. Iron. Weight, 34.87 grams. Cata- 
logue number, 46604. 

Weight, 20.85 grams. Section showing original surface. Etched portion 
shows fine Widmanstiittian figures. The plates narrow and distinct. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 51. 

Lissa, Bunzlau, Bohemia, Austria. Stone. Weight, 47 grams. Fell September 3, 
1808. Fragment showing somewhat blebby crust. Crust surface indented with 
a broad, shallow pit. Interior light ash-gray, somewhat flecked with rust and 
traversed by darker veins and containing chondrules and bright metallic veins. 
Catalogue number, 84717. 

Little Piney, Jefferson City, Pulaski County, Missouri. Stone. Weight, 75.44 grams. 
Fell February 13, 1839. Fragment from interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 161. 

Lixna, Diinaburg, Witebsk, Russia. Stone. Weight, 1.19 grams. Fell July 12, 
1820. Fragment with crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 145. 

Jjong Creek, Jefferson County, Tennessee. Iron. Weight, 571 grams. Found 1853. 
Of doubtful origin. An irregularly shaped mass having its surface more or less 
indented and somewhat oxidized. One part polished and etched, showing 
peculiar markings which are neither Widmanstiittian figures nor Newmann 
lines. Fractured surfaces show a tendency toward crystallization. Catalogue 
number, 46879. 

Lomj Island, Phillips County, Kansas. Stone. Weight, 1,893 grams. Found 1891. 
Three masses: (a) Weight 493 grams, having a slickensided surface, which later 
was fused to a smooth crust, (b) Weight, 159 grams, and (c) 1,241 grams. All 
have their surfaces much oxidized, and in places coated with a grayish incrusta- 
tion of carbonate of calcium. Ground mass compact and fine granular; brownish- 
black. Catalogue number, 83845. Gift of F. W. Clarke. 

LoKtlovm, Cherokee County, Georgia. Iron. Weight, 6.65 grams. Found 1867. 
Oxidized fragment. Catalogue number, 46065. 

Weight, 75.4 grams. Found 1864. Section, one surface etched showing Wid- 
manstiittian figures. Three vials of powder. The ^^hepard Collection, No. 77. 



CATALOGUE OF METEORITE OOLLECTIOK. 689 

Luclgnano d'Asso, Siena, Tuscany, Italy. Stone. Weight, 8.7 grams. Fell June 16, 
1794. Fragments. The Shepard Collection, No. 243. 

Lumpkin, Stewart County, Georgia. Stone. Weight, 1.62 grams. Fell October 6, 
1869, 11.43 a. m. Fragment with crust and polished surfaces. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 209. 

McKlnney, Collin County, Texas. Stone. Weight, 1,180 grams. Fell 1870. Mass 
with reddish brown, much oxidized crust. Ground mass greenish black, fine 
granular, compact. Catalogue number, 82751. 

Mncdo, Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil. Stone. Weight, 68.5 grams. Fell November 
11, 1836. Fragment with crust deeply stained with iron oxide. Ground mass 
compact and fine granular. Catalogue number 47904. 

Madoc, Hastings, Gntario, Canada. Iron. Weight, 19.65 grams. Found 1S54. Sec- 
tion showing coarse Widmaustattian figures. The Shepard Collei-tion, No. 57. 

ilat'me, Hislugari, Satsuma, Japan. Stone. Weight, 29.2 grams. Fell November 
10, 1886. Fragment with crust. Crust somewhat pitted and in blebs. Ground 
ma.ss light ash gray, granular, compact. Catalogue number, 47658. Gift of 
Educational IMuseum at Tokio, Japan. 

Mngdalena, Socorro County, New Mexico. Iron. Weight, 22 grams. Found 1899. 
Slice, 5 by 2 cm. Etched, showing coarse figures made up of ]>road plates. 
Catalogue numljer, 84596. 

Magvra (Arva), Szlanicza, Hungary. Iron. Weight, 98 grams. Found 1840. Slice, 
etched, showing delicate Vridmanstiittian figures. Catalogue number, 45667. 

Weight, 123.50 grams. Two vials and one fragment. The Shepard Collec- 
tion, No. 35. 

MaiiUioom, Bengal, India. Stone. Weight, 2 grams. Fell December 22, 1863. 
Fragment. Catalogue number, 48490. 

^f((rs]laU County, Kentucky. Iron. Weight, 68.23 grams. Two fragment^. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 62. 

Mart, McClennan County, Texas. Iron. Weight, 456 grams. Found 1898. Slice, 
etched, etching develoj)S typical Widmaustattian figures showing plates of 
taenite in parallel bimdles; small nodules of troilite are scattered over the sur- 
face, together with several veins of the same mineral. Cast of original mass. 
Catalogue number, 84600. 

Maryland. Weight, 2.735 grams. A shaving from burned museum in Baltimore. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 15. 

Mauerl'irchen, Austria. Stone. Weight, 0.5 gram. Fell November 20, 1768, 
4 p. m. Fragment from interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 125. 

Menou-, Mecklenburg, Germany. Stone. Weight, 2.1 grams. Fell October 7, 1862, 
1.30 p. m. Fragment from interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 191. 

J/ezo-J/ac/f/m-s Transylvania, Hungary. Stone. Weight, 86.8 grams. Fell Septem- 
ber 4, 1852, 4.30 p. m. Nearly complete individual with crust. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 175. 

Mighei, Trans Caucasus, Russia. Stone. Weight, 10 grams. Fell June 18, 1889. 
Fragment, dull black and soft friable, soiling the fingers. A i-arl)onaceous 
meteorite. The Shepard Collection, No. 241. 

M'dcna (Pusinsko Selo), Warasdin, Croatia, Austria. Stone. Weight, 46.25 grams. 
Fell April 26, 1842, 3 p. m. Fragment from interior, one surface appreciably 
slickensided. The Shei)ard Collection, No. 164. 

Minas (ieraefi,^TA7A\. Stone. Weight, 10.9 grams. Fragment with crust. C'atalogue 
number, 47647. 

Miney, Taney County, Missouri. Stony iron. Weight, (a) 34 grams; (b) 108 grams. 
Found 1856. (a) Fragment; (b) slice with polished surface showing the reticu- 
lated metallic portion holding the siliceous material, consisting of olivine, l)ronzite, 
augite, and plagioclase. Catalogue numbers, (a) 47745. (b) 83468. Gift of 
George F. Kunz. 



690 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Misshof, Courland, Russia. Stone. Weight, 45 grams. Fell April 10, 1890. Section 
of mass with crust. Ground mass ash gray, flecked with rust, and cftntaining 
numerous metallic grains and chondrules. Catalogue number, 84761. 
Weight, 109 grams. Fragment with crust. Catalogue number, 84794. 

Misteca, Oaxaca, Mexico. Iron. Weight, 18.5 grams. Found 1804. • Two fragments; 
one, weight 2.5 grams, polished; other, weight 16 grams, etched, developing 
Widmanstiittian iigures. The Shepard Collection, No. 12. 

Mors, Transylvania, Hungary. Stone. Weight, 95 grams. Fell February 3, 1882, 
4 p. m. Two nearly complete individuals. Crust brownish black, somewhat 
pitted, and showing lines of flow. Catalogue "number, 44478. 

Weight, 17.85 grams. Fragment with crust, one surface polished. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 234. 

Molina, Murcia, Spain. Stone. Weight, 3.67 grams. Fell December 24, 1858. 
Fragment with crust, one surface apparently slickensided. The Shepard Collec- 
tion, No. 186. 

Monroe, Cabarrus County, North Carolina. Stone. Weight, 343.6 grams. Fell 
October 31, 1849, 3 p. m. Fragment with crust; another with two surfaces pol- 
ished. The Shepard Collection, No. 173. 

Monte Milone (Macerata) , Italy. Stone. Weight, 0.73 gram. Fell May 8, 1846. 
Fragment with crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 169. 

Mooresfort, Tipperary, Ireland. Stone. Weight, 1 gram. Fell August, 1810. Frag- 
ment with dull black crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 137. 

Mordvinovka, Pavlograd, Ekaterinoslav, Russia. Stone. Weight, 18 grams; (b) 5.25 
grams. Fell May 19, 1826. Polished slice, (b) Fragment from interior. Cat- 
alogue numbers, 47742; (b) 47734. 

Weight, 3.11 grams. Three fragments, one with crust. The Shepard Collec- 
tion, No. 153. 

Morristown, Hamblen Comity, Tennessee. Stone. Weight, 1,820 grams. Found 
1887. 

Motecka-nugla, Bhurtpur, Rajputana, India. Stone. Weight, 3 grams. Fell Decem- 
ber 26, 1868. Fragment. Catalogue number, 47333. 

Motta di Conti, Piedmont, Italy. Stone. Weight, 1.53 grams. Fell February 29, 
1868. Fragment with papillated shiny black crust. The Shepard Collection, 
No. 202. 

Mount Joy, Adams County, Pennsylvania. Iron. Weight, 2,161 grams. Found 
1887. Fragments, originally a section, weight, 2,026.99 grams, and containing 
numerous cracks or veins filled with carbonaceous matter and chlorides; also 
containing numerous troilite nodules. The decomposition due to the occluded 
chlorides. Catalogue number, 84377. Gift of E. E. Howell. Fragment. Weight, 
135 grams. Catalogue number, 51110. 

Mount Oscuro, Socorro County, New Mexico. Iron. Weight, 243.7 grams. Found 
December 10, 1895. (a) Fragment showing portion of original surface with 
indications of octahedral cleavage; weight, 103.5 grams, (b) Fragment with 
original and etched surface. Widmanstiittian figures poor; weight, 140.2 grams. 
Catalogue number, 84378. 

MurfrecKhoro, near Nashville, Rutherford County, Tennessee. Iron. Weight, 57.5 
grams. Oblong slab, 3.2 by 2 by 0.6 cm. Catalogue number, 47340. 
Fragment. Weight, 5.88 grams. The Shepard Collection, No. 41. 

NcKjaya, near Concepcion, Entre Rios, Argentina. Stone. Weight, 3.5 grams. Fell 
July 1, 1879. Fragment, black in color with scattering gray specks. A carbo- 
naceous stone. Catalogue number, 48431. 

iVa?ijemo?/, Charles County, Maryland. Stone. Weight, 31.22 grams. Fell February 
10, 1825, 12 p. m. Fragment with crust. The Shepard collection, No 151. 



CATALOGUE OF METEORITE COLLECTION. 691 

N^ed, Wadee Banee Khaled, Central Arabia. Iron. Weight, 309 grams. Fell spring 
of 1865. Sawn section eti-hed. Widmanstiittian figures typical. Catalogue 
number, 84786. Weight, 37 grams. Sawn section. The Shepard Collection, 
No. 73. 

Nelson Counti/, Kentucky. Iron. Weight, 370 grams. Found 1860. Section 5 by 6 
by 2 centimeters. Shows portion of original surface and contains fine grains of 
troilite. Catalogue number, 46521. Gift of J. Berrien Lindsley. 
Weight, 58.3 grams. Section of mass. The Shepard Collection, No. 68. 

iV'i?7?/mo?«n.s'f?o);/", near Pirna, Saxony, Germany. Iron. Weight, 15.15 grams. Found 
1872. Fragment, Aveight, 2.45 grams. Fragment (weight, 12.70 grams) showing 
a greenish efHorescence of nickel compounds. The Shepard Collection, No. 83. 

.LVe's.'i ('i>ntitt/, Kan.sas. Stone. Weight, 108 grams. Found spring of 1899. Nearly 
complete individual; one face polished showing ground mass deeply stained with 
rust and containing numerous large and small gray chondrules, with small metallic 
grains. Crust surface brown from oxidation. Catalogue number, 84707. 

Weight, 206 grams. Catalogue number, 84803. Weight, 903 grams. Two 
complete individuals weighing 833 and 70 grams respectively. Catalogue 
number, 84814. Weight, 469 grams. Five specimens weighing 191, 138, 63, 48, 
and 29 grams, respectively. Catalogue number, 84815. 

Ketschd'ero, Tula, Russia. Iron. Weight, 61.95 grams. Found 1846. Fragment. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 38. 

New Concord, Guernseif, and Muskinr/um Counties, Ohio. Stone. Weight, 3,311.87 
grams. Fell May 1, 1860, 12.45 p. m. Nearly complete individual covered with 
a somewhat pitted black crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 188. 

Weight, (a) 197 grams; (b) 1,720 grams. Fell May 1, 1860, 12.45 p. m. (a) 
Complete individual with crust; one surface striated resembling slickenside. 
(b) Mass, black, papillated and somewhat pitted crust. Ground mass dark ash 
gray, fine granular compact. Catalogue numbers, (a) 8065, gift of E. B. Andrews; 
(b)' 46610, gift of J. B. Lindsley. 

Neirstrad, Roxburghshire, Scotland. Iron. Weight, 51 grams. Found 1827. Tri- 
angularly shaped fragments. The Shepard Collection, No. 22. 

Noico- ['rel, Krasnoslobodsk, Pensa, Russia. Stone. Weight, 4 grams. Fell September 
22, 1886. Fragment from interior. Ground mass black (ureilite) ; coarse granular. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 240. 

Onkh'n, Logan County, Kansas. Stone. Weight, 320 grams. Found 1895. Sawn 
section. The dark gray, nearly black ground mass contains numerous metallic 
grains and chondrules. Catalogue numbar, .84788. 

Obernkirchen, Oldenburg, Schaumberg-Lippe, Germany. Iron. Weight, 152.5 grams. 
Found 1863. Catalogue number, 47328. 

Weight, 53.4 grams, (a) Section showing troilite nodule. Weight, 30.3 
grams, (b) Section weighing 23.1 grams. The Shepard Collection, No. 71. 

Oc/ia/*."*/; (Taborg), Perm, Russia. Stone. AVeight, 161 grams; (b) 13.3 grams. Fell 
August 30, 1887. Fragment from interior, (b) Two fragments; one, weight 10 
grams, without cru.st, and one, weight 3.3 grams, with a trace of crust. Catalogue 
numbers, 47733; (b) 81169. Gift of R. de Kroustchoff. 

Oktibbeha, ]\Iissi.ssippi. Iron. Weight, 1.89 grams. Found 1854. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 55. 

Orange River, South Africa. Iron. Weight, 99.4 grams. Fragment. Catalogue 
number, 47320. 

AVeight, 21.41 grams. Etched section with original surface. AVidmanstattian 
figures coarse; taenite plates narrow. The Shepard Collection, No. 64. 

Og'Mt'iV, Montaul)an, Tarn et Garonne, France. Stone. AA''eight, 9.62 grams. 

AA'eight, 98 grams. Fell i\Iay 14, 1864, 8 p. m. Fragment with crust. Crust 
surface nmch crackled and deeply pitted. Catalogue number, 8473. 
Coarse, black friable i)owder. The Shepard Collection, No. 196. 



692 RErOKT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Ornmis, Salins, Doubs, France. Stone. Weight, 6 grams. Fell July 11, 1868. 
Fragment from interior. Ground mass dark ash graj'. Chondrules made up of 
ornansite and Ngawite. The Shepard Collection, No. 203. 

Orvhiio, IJmbria, Italy. Stone. Weight, 0.12 gram. Fell August 31, 1872. Frag- 
ment with crust. Ground mass dull black and flecked with numerous white 
efflorescences. The stone contains no iron. Catalogue number, 84743. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 216. 

Osel (Kaande), Poland, Russia. Stone. Weight, 13 grams. Fell May 11, 1855, 
3.30 p.m. Fragment with crust. Ground mass ash gray; fine granular com- 
pact. Catalogue number, 81170. Gift of R. de Kroustchoff. 

Weight, 4 grams. Fragment from interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 178. 

Panda, Jacal, Hidalgo, Mexico. Stone. Weight, 23 grams. Fell June 18, 1881. 
Fragment from interior. Catalogue number, 84787. Two fragments from inte- 
rior. Ground mass traversed by several delicate veins. The Shepard Collection, 
No. 236. 

Parnallee, Madura, Madras, India. Stone. Weight, 87 grams. Fell February 28, 
1857, 12 m. Fragment with crust. Catalogue number, 8067. Gift of C. A. 
Young. 

Weight, 331.48 grams. Two fragments with crust. Crust black, pitted, and in 
swellings. The Shepard Collection, No. 181. 

Pavlovka, Sartov, Russia. Stone. Weight, 5.61 grams. Fell August 2, 1882. 
Fragment with crust; also a vial of fragments. The Shepard Collection, No. 235. 

Petersburg, Lincoln County, Tennessee. Stone. Weight, 30.7 grams. Fell August 
5, 1855. Two fragments with crust. Crust shiny black and pitted and in 
swellings. The Shepard Collection, No. 179. 

P(7//.s(/er, Aukoma, Poland, Russia. Stone. Weight, 2.6 grams. Fell August 8, 1863, 
12.30 p. m. Fragment from interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 192. 

Pipe Creek, Bandera County, Texas. Stone. Weight, 168 grams. Found 1887. 
Polished section. Ground mass brownish black, granular, compact. Catalogue 
number, 83466. 

Plymouth, Marshall County, Indiana. Iron. AVeight, 182 grams. Found 1893 
(1883?) . Polished slab 5.5 by 5.5 by 0.7 cm. Catalogue number, 83464. 

Politz, near Gera, Reuss, Germany. Stone. Weight, 0.163 grams. Fell October 13, 
1819, 8 a. m. Fragment with crust. The Shei)ard Collection, No. 144. 

Prairie Dog Creek, Decatur County, Kansas. Stone. Weight, 220 grams. Known 
1893. Mass with crust. Crust scorified on one surface, papillated on another. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 244. 

Pramftancm, Java. Iron. Weight, 2.3 grams. Found 1797. Fragment. The Shep- 
ard Collection, No. 11. 

Pricetown, Highland County, Ohio. Stone. Weight, 2.45 grams. Fell February 13, 
1893. Fragment with dull black, papillated, and somewhat blebly crust. Ground 
mass ash gray, fine granular, and compact. Structure chondritic. Catalo^fue 
number, 83226. Gift of F. W. Clarke. 

PuUu>>k, Poland, Russia. Stone. AVeight, 304.76 grams. Fell Jamiary 30, 1868, 
7 p. m. Seven complete individuals. Crust dull black, more or less papillated 
and pitted. A cross section of an individual with crust and polished surface. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 201. 

Weight, 158 grams. Complete individual with dull black, papillated, and 
somewhat pitted crust, and showing a portion of the interior. Catalogue num- 
ber, 44477. 

Puquios, Chile. Iron. Weight, 28 grams. Found 1885. Two fragments, one etched. 
Weight, 10.3 grams and 17.7 grams. Catalogue number, 49054. Gift of Ward 
and Howell. 



CATALOGUE OP METEORITE COLLECTION. 693 

Putnam Coiniti/, (reorgia. Iron. Wtnjiht, 'A'2^ grains. Found 1839. Oxidized mass 
siiowing cleavage. The cleavage plates separated by taneite. Catalogue num- 
ber, 4651<S. (lift of J. Berrien Lindsley. 

Weiglit, 6.S.55 grauis. Four fragments. The Shepard Collection, No. 28. 

(janH/(/oi(k, Pegu, Burma. Stone. Weight, 19.65 grams. Fell December 27, 1857. 
Fragment with crust. One vial of powder. The Shejiard Collection, No. 184. 

Rttfriiti, Enunenthal, Bern, Switzerland. Iron. Weight, 23 grams. A polished 
section. Catalogue number, 84804. 

Rdkorkxt, Tula, Russia. Stone. Weight, 23.5 grams. Fell November 20, 1878. 
Fragment with crust indented with broad shallow pits. The Shepard Collec- 
tion, No. 227. 

Raiichito, Bacubirito, Sinaloa, Mexico. Iron. AVeight, 14.4 grams. Found 1871. 
Fragment with original and etched surfaces. Delicate Widmanstiittian figures. 
Catalogue number, 51669. Gift of G. E. Bailey. 

Weight, 171.4 grams. Found 1871. Part of mass with original and etched 
surfaces. The Shepard Collection, No. 102. 

Rasijata, Tocavita, United States of Colombia. Iron. Weight, 15 grams. Found 
1810. Small polished section. The Shepard Collection, No. 16. 

Weight, 0.895 grams. Two fragments, etched. Widmanstiittian figures 
typical. Catalogue number, 45695. 

Ramzzo, near Cento, Ferrara, Italy. Stone. Weight, 7.20 grams. Fell January 15, 
1824. Fragment with crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 149. 

Richmond, Virginia. Stone. Weight, 3.69 grams. Fell June 4, 1828, 8.30 a. m. 
Fragment from interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 155. 

Roclu'strr, Fulton County, Indiana. Stone. Weight, 2 grams. Fell Decemljer 21, 
1876. Fragment with crust. Catalogue number, 46078. 

Weight, 48.27 grams. Two fragments with dull black blebly crust. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 221. 

RiK'hurne (200 miles southeast of). West Australia. Iron. Weight, 157 grams. 
Found 1892. Section etched, showing ty])ical Widmanstiittian figures with 
scattering grains of troilite. The Shepard Collection, No. 109. 

Roirton, Wellington, Shropshire, England. Iron. Weight, 19.5 grams. Fell April 
20, 1876. Slice, 4.2 by 1.2 l)y 0.5 cm. Catalogue number, 47327. 

Rxijf's Mountain, Lexington County, South Carolina. Iron. Weight, 9.7 grams. 
Found 1844. Fragment. Catalogue number, 46066. 

Weight, 5,461 grams. Large block etched on one face and sh<)wing Widman- 
stiittian figures. Two small fragments. The Shepard Collection, No. 46. 

A'h.s.s(7/ Cfulch, Gilpin County, Colorado. Iron. Weight, 76 grams. Found 1863. 
Rectangular section 4.5 by 1.7 by 1.2 cm. One surface that of original mass; 
another etched, having a gi-anularor stippled appearance and containing numer- 
ous grains of taenite (?). On another face is a cavity or cast of a troilite 
nodule. Catalogue number, 81349. The United States Geological Survey. 

Sucranteido Motmtains, Eddy County, New Mexico. Iron. Weight, 4,420 grams. 
Found 1876. Cross section of mass. One surface etched, showing well-marked 
AVidmanstiittian figures with a few small scattered nodules of troilite. Cata- 
logue number, 84726. 

^Sdint Fnrncols County (southeast Missouri), Missouri. Iron. Weight, 5.6 grams. 
Found 1863. Fragment. The Shepard Collection, No. 72. 

Weight, 275 grains. One slab; weight, 245 grams. Two fragments; weight, 
30 grams. Catalogue number, 47747. 

Saint-Mesmin, near Troyes, Aube, France. Stone. Weight, 69 grams. Fragment 
with dull black crust. Catalogue number, 84826. 

Weight, 1.59 grams. Fell May 30, 1866. Fragment with crust. The Shei)ard 
Collection, No. 199. 



694 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Sallcy, near Villefranche, Rhone, France. Stone. Weight, 41 grams. Fragment 
with sawn and fractured surfaces shcnving brecciated structure; also a portion of 
tlie dull black crust. C'atalogue number, 84827. 

Weight, 2 grams. Fell March 12, 1798. Gray powder. The Shepard Col- 
lection, No. 130. 

Salt Ijtke (Jitji, Utah. Stone. Weight, 2.81 granii?. Found 1869. Fragment with 
brownish black crust. Catalogue number, 47401. 

Salt River, Kentucky. Iron. Weight, 51.56 grams. Found 1850. Two sections; 
weight, 26.2 grams and 25.36 grams. Etched surface shows Neumann lines. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 47. 

Sail Angela, Tom Green County, Texas. Iron. Weight, 607 grams. Found July, 
1897. Section. One face etched, showing Widmansttittian figures with several 
cracks or fissures, the larger of which are filled with graphitic carbon. Catalogue 
number, 84811. 

Sanchez Estate, Coahuila, Mexico. Iron. Weight, 183.7 grams. Two fragments, 
one showing fracture. The Shepard Collection, No. 61. 

San Emigido Range, San Bernardino County, California. Stone. Weight, 119 grams. 
Catalogue number, 47833. 

San Luis Potosi, Mexico. Iron. Weight, 57.4 grams. Rectangular fragment, three 
faces etched, showing Widmanstiittian- figures. One face marked "Parte de aero- 
lito del Estado de S. Luis Potosi caido en el Aiino de 1871;" another marked "a 
Ulisis S. Grant." Catalogue number, 47190. Received among the Grant relics. 

Santa CatJmrina, Rio San Francisco do Sul, Brazil. Iron. Weight, 253.9 grams. 
Known, 1873. (a) Section showing no evidence of alteration. One surface 
etched; Widmanstiittian figures broad, with scattering plates of ttenite and 
some troilite. Analysis shows 36 per cent of nickel, (b) Two fragments some- 
what oxidized on surface, but with a compact metallic interior, (c) Complete 
mass apparently altered to limonite; surface somewhat pitted by decay. The 
Shepard Collection, Nos. 87, 88, and 105. 

Weight, 82.4 grams. Mass but slightly altered; a polished surface, having a 
good metallic luster. Catalogue number, 47360. 

Santa Rosa, Coahuila, Mexico. Iron. Weight, 19.3 grams. Found 1837. Polished 
fragment. Catalogue number, 45744. Gift of N. T. Lupton, who described it 
in American Journal of Science, 3d Ser. XXIX, p. 232. 

Sarepta, Saratov, Russia. Iron. Weight, 3.3 grams. Found 1854. One lot of 
turnings. The Shepard Collection, No. 60. 

Saskatcheivan River, Victoria, British Columbia. Iron. AVeight, 125 grams. Found 
1871. The Shepard Collection, No. 79. 

Schi'menberg, Pfaffenhausen, Burgau, Swabia, Bavaria, Germany. Stone. Weight, 
8 grams. Fell December 25, 1846. Fragment with crust. Crust surface thick, 
scoriaceous, and somewhat shining. Ground mass dark ash gray, with light 
and dark chondri and metallic grains, the latter occasionally coarse. Interior 
traversed by narrow veins of nickel iron. Catalogue number, 84599. 

Schwetz, Prussia, (lermany. Iron. Weight, 10.55 grams. Found 1850. Fragment. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 48. 

Scottsville, Allen County, Kentucky. Iron. Weight, 99.8 grams. Found 1867. (a) 
Section, weight 66.5 grams, contains troilite nodules, (b) Section, weight 33.3 
grams. Etched surface contains troilite nodules and presents a granular or stip- 
pled appearance overlaid with a network of fine lines, (c) Cast of original mass. 
Catalogue number, 47184. 

Weight, 713 grams. Cross section etched, showing Neumann lines. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 80. 



CATALOGUE OF METEORITE COLLECTION. 695 

.Scn^f, Oswejio County, New York. Iron. Weiglit, 9.15 grani.s. Fragment. Etched 
surface shows no structure, l)Ut lias a granular or stippknl appearance. Cata- 
logue number, 4651. 

Weight, 61.33 grams. Polished section. The Shei>ard (Collection, No. 23. 

&'tn-.s»(ny(;,Waldo County, Maine. Stone. AVeight, 16 grams. Fell May 21, 1871, 8.15 a. 

m. Two fragments from interior. Catalogue number, 8068. Gift of A. C. Hamlin. 

Weight, 62.5 grams. Fragment with dull black papillated crust. The Shep- 

ard Collection, No. 211. 

SecUmjt'u, Brandenburg, Prussia, Germany. Iron. Weight, 104.5 grams. Found 

1847. Cross section of mass. Etching shows the mass to be made up of irregular 
plates of the nickel-iron alloys. Catalogue number, 47321. 

Weight, 111.6 grams. Etched slab showing irregular lines of troilite and 

plates of nickel-iron alloy. The Shepard Collection, No. 44. 
Seneca Falls, near Waterloo, Cayuga ('ounty, New York. Iron. Weight, 80.2 grams. 

Found 1851. Section of mass. The Shepard Collection, No. 49. 
Senhadja, Aumale, Constantine, Algeria. Stone. Weight, 17.5 grams. Fell August 

25, 1865. Fragment with light-brown crust differing but little in color from that 

of the ground mass. Catalogue number, 48823. 
Shalka, near Bissempore, Bancoorah, Bengal, India. Stone. Weight, 53 grams. 

Fell November 30, 1850. Fragment with crust. Catalogue number, 84791. 
Shitu/le Springs, Eldorado County, C-alifornia. Iron. Weight, 32.4 grams. Found 

1869-70. Fragment. Catalogue number, 47359. 
Slu/tal, Dacca, Bengal, India. Stone. Weight, 1.32 grams. Fell August 11, 1863. 

Fragment from interior. Tlu' Shepard Collection, No. 193. 
<S'/Vh((, Tuscany, Italy. Stone. Weight, 6.75 grams. Fell June 16, 1794. Complete 

individual, showing crust and interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 128. 
Sitaihali, near Nurrah, Eaipur, Rajputana, India. Stone. Weight, 13.5 grams. Fell 

March 4, 1875. Fragment with crust. Catalogue number, 47332. 
Ski, Amt Akershuss, Norway. Stone. Weight, 0.25 grams. Fell December 27, 

1848. Fragment. Catalogue number, 46611. 

Weight, 1 gram. Fragment with crust. The Shepard ('ollection, No. 172. 
Slohodka, Juchnow, Smolensk, Russia. Stone. Weight, 3.7 grams. Fell August 10, 

1818. Fragment. Catalogue number, 81163. Gift of R. de Kroustchoff. 
Smilhland, near Salem, Livingston County, Kentucky. Iron. Weight, 12.935 grams. 

Found 1839-40. The Shepard Collection, No. 30. 
Smiths Mountain, Rockingham County, North CaroUna. Iron. AVeight, 58.8 grams. 

Found 1863. Thin slab, etched, coarse Widmanstilttian figures witli scattered 

grains of troilite. Catalogue num})er, 47335. 
Smithcille, De Kalb County, Tennessee. Iron. Weight, 214 grams. Found lS4t). 

Section of mass with original and polislied surface. Shows large troilite nodule. 

Catalogue number, 83463. 

Weight, 1,937 grams. Iron. Found, 1893. A portion of mass; natural surface 

in part altered from occluded chlorides. One surface showing nodules of troilite. 

The Shepard Collection, No. 106. 
Sokohanja (Sarbanovac), Servia. Stone. Weight, 1.75 grams. Fell October 13, 

1877, 2 p. m. Fragment with crust. Catalogue number, 46075. 

Weight, 15.98 grams. Fragment with crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 224. 
StiUldalen, Nya Kopparberg, Dalecarlia, Sweden. Stone. Weight, 151.7 grams. 

Fell June 28, 1876, 11.30 a. m. Two fragments with crust. Crust surface 

indented with broad shallow ])its. Ground mass shows fragmentary slicken- 

sides. The Shepard Collection, No. 220. 
Skmnern, Iglau, Moravia, Austria. Stone. Weight, (a) 14 grams; (b) 33 grams. 

Fell May 22, 1808, 6 a. m. (a) Fragment with crust, (b) Nearly complete 

individual; crust surface shiny black, papillated and showing lines of flow. 

Catalogue numbers, (a) 47325; (b) 47972. 
NAT MUS 1900 47 



696 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Stnnnern, Iglau, Moravia, Austria — Contiiuietl. 

Weight, 25.70 grams. Fragment with glossy black to shiny crust. The Shep- 
ard CoUet-tion, No. 136. 

(S/ajm/OTi, Augusta (^ounty, Virginia. Iron. Weight, (a) 145 grams; (1)) 9.86 grams. 
Found (a) 1858-59, (h) 1887. (a) Mass described by Mallet in 1871; a rectan- 
gular slab etched, showing coarse Widmanstiittian figures with scattering grains 
of troilite. (b) Mass described l)y Kunz, found 1887. Fragments. Weight, 
9.86 grams, much oxidized. Catalogue numbers, (a) 46623; (b) 46621. 

Weight, 1,662 grams. Cross section of mass containing large troilite no<lule. 
Etched surface shows typical Widmanstiittian figures. The Shepard Collec- 
tion, No. 78. 

Stavropol, Caucasus, Russia. Stone. Weight, 52.4 grams. Fell March 24, 1857. 
Fragment with crust. (Iround mass ash gray and fine granular. Catalogue 
number, 81171. Gift of R. de Kronstchoff. 

Steiuhnch, Saxony, Germany. Stony iron. Weight (a) 65.45 grams, (b) 16.8 grams- 
Fell 1164 (?). (a) Rittersgrihi, found 1847. vSection with crust. The stony 
I)ortion exceeds the metallic, which consists chiefly of nickel iron with some 
small masses of troilite. On one surface the metallic portion has been etched, 
showing Widmanstiittian figures, (b) Fragment. The Shepard Collection, 
Nos. (a) 113, (b) 115. 

AVeight, (a) 38 grams, (b) 2 grams, (c) 53.7 grams. Fell 1164? (a) Ritters- 
gri'in, found 1847. Slice polished; the stony portion exceeds the metallic. The 
latter etched, showing typical Widmanstiittian figures, (b) Steinbach, found 
before 1751. Fragment; the metallic portion has been etched, showing Wid- 
manstiittian figures, (c) Breitenbach, found 1861. Catalogue numbers (a) 
13463 (gift of Adrian Van Sinderen), (b) 47971, (c) 47331. 

Supuhcr, Goriickpur, India. Stone. Weight, 4.3 grams. Fell January 19, 1865. 
Fragment with crust. Crust ccjntains small globules of nickel iron. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 197. 

Tabor, Bohemia, Austria. Stone. Weight, 2.45 grams. Fell June 3, 1753, 8 p. m. 
Section from intei'ior. The Shepard Collection, No. 123. 

T'c/jg'/ia, Krasnojarsk, Siberia. Iron. Weight, 64 grams. Found 1S91. Fragment with 
original surface. Etch figures coarse and poor. The Shepard Collection, No. 246. 

Tarapaca, Hemalja, Chile. Iron. Weight, 84 grams. Found 1840. Fr^ment. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 31. ' ^ 

Tazewell, Claiborne County, Tennessee. Iron. Weight, 152 grams. Found 1853. 
Irregularly shaped mass. Catalogue number, 46520. Gift of J. Berrien 
Lindsley. 

Tcnnajr'dm, Esthland, Russia. Stone. Weight, 48.2 grams. Fell June 28, 1872. 
Fragment with ])a]iillated, and in part somewhat blebly, crust. Ground mass 
dark ash gray and coarse granular. Catalogue number, 47324. 

Weight, 1.76 grams. Two fragments with a small portion of crust. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 214. 

Tieschilz, Prerau, Moravia, Austria. Stone. W'eight, 27 grams. Fell July 15, 1878. 
Fragment with dull black crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 226. 

Timosdiiu, Juchnow, Smolensk, Russia. Stone. Weight, 6.8 grams. Fell INIarch 
25, 1807. Fragment from interior. Catalogue number, 81166. Gift of R. de 
Kroustchoff. 

Weight, 15 grams. Fragment from interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 134. 

T^abe, Bodgo-Negoro, Padangan, Remliang, Java. Stone. Weight, 29.1 grams 
Fell Septend)er 1 9, 1869. Fragment with crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 208. 

ToZwo, Xiquipilco, Mexico. Iron. Found 1784. Weight, 688 grams, (a) Etched 
slice, weight, 850 grams; Widmanstiittian figures distinct; contains irregularly 
shape<l nodules of troilite. (b) Complete individual; weight, 99.75 grams; sur- 
face pitted and somewhat oxidized. Catalogue nundx'rs, (a) 47091, (b) 83465. 



CATALOGUE OF METEORITE COLLECTION. 697 

Tolnm, Xiquipik'o, INIexico — Continued. 

Complete individual, having a pitted surface. The Shepard Colleetion, No. 5. 
Two polished and etched slices showing Widmanstiittian tigures. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 6. 

Tomhigbre River, Choctaw and Sumter Counties^, Alal>ama. Iron. Weight, 2,443 
grams. Found 1878. Section with original ami poli.-^hed surfaces. Tlie ])iili.shed 
surface shows masses of schri'ilK'rsite irregularly arranged, and resend)ling, in 
form, Arabic writings. Tiie ground mass contains numerous straight lines appear- 
ing like scratches, some of which are n'gularly arranged in parallel columns. 
Catalogue numljer, 84808. 

Tomhannock Creek, Rensselaer County, New York. Stone. Weight, It grams. Found 
1863. Thin section of mass. Catalogue nund)er, 45<)!»4. 

Weight, 8.74 grams. Two slices, j)olished and showing crust. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 195. 

To»/f/a?to.»/(', Leavenworth County, Kansas. Iron. Weight, 195 grams. Found 1886. 
Cross section of mass, one face etched, showing WidmanstiittiaTi figures, and a 
few small, scattered grains of troilite. Catalogue number, 84808. 

Tourinnes La Grosse, Tirlemont, Belgium. Stone. Weight, 9.04 grains. Fell De- 
cember 7, 1863. Fragment with crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 194. 

Trarls Coantij, Texas. Stone. Weight, 2,650 grams. Found June, 1S.S9. Nearly 
complete mass. Surface much oxidized. Ground mass nearly blai-k and deeply 
stained with rust. Catalogue number, 48488. Gift of K. T. Hill. 

Tir)t^o», Washington County, Wisconsin. Iron. Weight, 327 grams. Found 1858. 
Section 8.3 by 7 l)y 1.5 cm. Etched. Shows large troilite nodule. Catalogue 
numl)er, 46613. 

Weight, 91.46 grams. Two fragments. The Shepard Collection, No. 66. 

Trnizinio, Brescia, Lonibardy, Italy. Stone. Weight, 3.8 grams. Fell November 
12, 1856, 4 p. m. Fragment. The Shepanl Collection, No. 180. 

Trinity Co?u)/(/, California. Iron. Weight, 3.65 grams. Found 1870. Fragments 
(clippings). Catalogue nundjer, 46070. 
Weight, 22.55 grams. Fragments. The Shepard Collection, No. 108. 

Tarsoti, Arizona. Iron. Weight, 621,531 grams. The ring meteorite. 

Weight, 84.5 grams. Fragment from inner circle of ring meteorite. The 
Shepard Collection, No. 40. (See Plate 1.) 

7'((/-.s-o/), (Carlton), Arizona. Iron. Weight, 3«).S4 grains. Found 1846. The Shep- 
ard Collection, No. 39. 

Tucuman, Otumpa, Argentina. Iron. Weight, 23.8 grams. Found 1788. Frag- 
ment having one surface polished. The Shepard Collection, No. 7. 

Tymes, Norway. Stone. Weight, 29.3 grams. Fell May 20, 1884. Fragment from 
interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 238. 

Union County, Georgia. Iron. Weight, 124.5 grams. Found 1853. (a) Section 
having a much oxidized surface and showing cleavage lines; weight, 87 grams, 
(b) Section, weight 36.5 grams, (c) Vial of oxidized crust. The Shepard Col- 
lection, No. 53. 

Unknown iron. Weight, 3,510 grams. Found without record in old Smithsonian 
Institution collection. ^lass nearly complete. Catalogut' number, 46612. 

Ulrccht (Blaauw Kapel), Holland. Stone. Weight, 8.8 grams. Fell June 2, 1843. 
Two fragments, one 3.1 grams with crust; another from interior, 5.7 grains. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 167. 

Weight, 28.7 grams; 25.9 grams of coarse powder. One fragment 2.81 grams. 
Catalogue number, 47326. 

V<ica Muerta, Atacama, Chile. Stony iron. Weight, 449 grams. Known 1861. 
Mass with original surface. The nonmetallic portion in excess of the metallic. 
Catalogue number, 6991. (iift of the University of St. Jago, Chile. 



698 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1900. 

Vuca Mnerla, Atac-ania, Chili' — Continued. 

Weight, 27.(i3 grams; ()>) 29.8 grains. Found 1862; (b) 1867-68. Three frag- 
ment^, two of which are thin sectionn; the third shows original and polished 
surfaces. Structure somewhat granular, with the metallic and nonmetallic por- 
tions about e(iually distributed, (b) Mejillones. Thin section in which the 
metallic portion is distributed in occasional nodules and filiform shajies through- 
out the stony gnnnid mass. The Shepard Collection, Nos. 119; b, 116. 

Veramin (Karand), Teheran, Persia. Stony iron. Weight, 6.5 grams. Fell Febru- 
ary, 1880. Fragments. Catalogue number, 84700. Gift of G. P. Merrill. 

Vkioria Tle-s/, Cape Colony, South Africa. Iron. Weight, 2.15 grams. Found 1862. 
Fell (?) 1862. Fragments of crust almost completely altered to limonite. The 
Sheiiard Collection, No. 70. 

Vouillc, near Poitiers, Vienne, France. Stone. Weight, 14.57 grams. Fell May 13, 
1831. Fragment from interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 158. 

Wuconda, Mitchell County, Kansas. Stone. Weight, 8 grams. Found 1874. Two 
fragments, one with crust. Catalogue number, 46609. Gift of G. W. Chapman. 
Weight, 996.55 grams. Mass with pitted and blebly crust, showing lines of 
flow; also a fragment from interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 213. 

Warrenton, AVarren County, Missouri. Stone. Weight, 11 grams. Fell January 3, 
1877, 7 a. in. Fragment from interior. Catalogue number, 46077. 
Weight 27.25 grams. Fragment with crust. The Shepard Collection, No. 222. 

Weliand, Ontario, Canada. Iron. Weight, 36.5 grams. Found 1888. Section hav- 
ing original and etched surface. WidmanstiUtian figures coarse and regular, 
with scattering grains of troilite. Lines of octahedral cleavage well marked. 
The Shepard Collection, No. 103. 

Werchne-Udmsk, River Niro, Trans Baikal, Siberia. Iron. Weight, 36.30 grams. 
Found 1854. Etched section; Widmanstilttian figures coarse. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 58. 

WcnUm, Fairfield County, Connecticut. Stone. Weight, 17 grams. Fell December 
14, 1807, 6.30 a. m. Fragment from interior. Catalogue numbQj', 47743. 

Weight, 74.37 grams. Three fragments, one without crust. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 135. 

Wichita County, Brazos River, Texas. Iron. Weight, 20.8 grams. Founij. 1836. 
Fragment 4 by 1 by 0.7 cm. Catalogue numljer, 45273. 

Weight", 212.4 grams, (a) Section with original and etched surface; weight, 
143 grams; (1)) .section as above; weight, 69.40 grams. Both show coarse Wid- 
manstilttian figures, with nodules of troilite and flakes of schreibersite. The 
Shepai'd Collection, No. 26. 

Wold Cottof/e, Yorkshire, P^ngland. Stone. AVeight, 13.02 grams. Fell Decem])er 
13, 1795, 3.30 p.m. Fragment with crust and polished surface. The Shepard 
Collection, No. 129. 

Wooster, Wayne County, Ohio. Iron. AVeight, 2.86 grams. Found 1858. Rec- 
tangular fragment. The Shepard Collection, No. 65. 

Yatoor, near Nellore, Madras, India. Stone. Weight, 2.81 grams. Fell January 
23, 1852, 4.30 p. m. Fragment from interior. The Shepard Collection, No. 174. 

Znhorzika, Volhynien, Russia. Stone. Weight, 4.1 grams. Fell April 10, 1818. 
Fragment from interior, (iround mass ash gray, flne granular, friable. Cata- 
logue numl)er, 81172. Gift of R. de Kroustchoff. 

Zamtecds, Mexico. Iron. Weight, 175.3 grams. Found 1792. 

Weight 14.8 grams. Fragment. Catalogue nund^er, 46524. Giftof J. Berrien 
Lindsay. Fragment with original and etched surfaces. Widmanstiittian figures 
good. The Shepard Collection, No. 5. 

Zavid, Bosnia, Bohemia, Austria. Stone. Weight, 31 grains. Fell August 1, 1897. 
Fragment with dull brown crust, (tround mass ash-gray, and containing numer- 
ous chondri and grains of iron and troilite. Catalogue number, 84741. 



T N D E X 



Page. 

Abbott, Dr. Williimi I,., utressions in an(hr<>]>ol()i;y through 23 

))ir(ls collected by 40 

collecting operationt^ of 15, ',}'.>, .'54, 70 

explorations of 28 

hymenoptera collected by 41 

nianiinals collected Ivy 41 

Aboriginal American harpoons: A Study in Ethnic I)istril)utiun and Inven- 
tion, by (^tis Tufton Mason 189 

conmuniities in southern California 181 

near Jamestown, California 170 

implements, aljsence in California of certain 162 

tribes in California, remnants of 161 

Aborigines of California, cultun> of 161 

stone art of 162 

use of iron pestle and mnller instead of those of 

stone by 165 

iron stoves and tin utensils for cooking by. . . 165 

skin, bark, and wood in vessel making by 164 

Western Plennsphere, methods of taking animals 197 

piercing devices of 197 

Accessions and registration 61 

during year ending June 30, 1900, list of 78 

marking of, with uniform stamp 39 

to collections in National Museum ^luring year 15 

departnu^nt of anthropology - 22, 23 

biology 34 

geology, table of 45 

Museum received annually since l.SSO, table of 62 

in 1899-1900, table of 61 

Accessories to the liarpoon 209 

A(diirite, description of 507 

Achroite, description of 533 

Acorn holes found in Coarse Ciold Gulch, California 179 

Acorns and seeds ground on tlat sui-face of Painted Rocks, California 178 

cracking outfit at Todd's Valley, California, description of 169 

grinding by Indians of California, process of 172 

prepared as food l)y Indians of (California, process of 173 

process of cooking, by Indians of southern California 187 

use of, as food l)y Hi-eet Indians of California 165 

Pomo Indians of California 175 

by Indians of southern California as an article of food 187 

at Todd's Valley, California 169 

Act of Congress approved March 3, 1899, appropriating sum for tioverument 

exhibit at Pan-American Exposition 74 

Aculeate hymenoptera, report on 41 

699 



700 INDEX. 

Page. 

Adler, Cyrui?, title of paper by 130 

Administrative staff of National Mnsenm 78 

Adularia, descriiition of 519 

Aeroides, description of 491 

^Erolites, si^ecimens of, ol)tained 46 

^rosiderites, specimens of, obtained 46 

Africa, distribution of specimens in 119 

Agate, description of 522 

moss, description of 524 

mystical properties of - 508 

Agatized wood, description of 522 

Agriculture, department of, mammal collections of . . , 33 

Aht or Nutka division of Wakasban family of Nortb America, location of 231 

Alabaster, description of 512 

mystical ])roperties of 564 

Albite, description of 487 

Alexandrite, description of 495, 496 

Allegan stone, purchase of 46 

Alloo, or breathing place of Arctic seal, description of 268 

Almandine, description of 528 

Alpheida,', loan of 43 

Amazon Indians of South America, harpooning ))y 216 

Amazonstone, descrii)tion of 515 

Amber, description of ^ 488 

mystical i)roperties of 565 

America, distribution of specimens in 119 

American Commissioner-General, loan to 29 

Electrical Works, insulated elec'trical condui-tors presented by 23 

Ethnology, Bureau of, objects obtained by Museum through 16 

Harpoons, Aboriginal: A Study in P^thnic Distribution and Inven- 
tion, by Otis Tufton Mason ^ 189 

historv, section of, report on 27 

Ames, Azel, collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Amethiste basal tine, des(tription of 491 

Amethyst, description of 523 

mystical i>roi)erties of 565 

Anatast', description of 517 

Ancient village sites numerous in Tuohunne Tal)le Mountain Region, California 170 

Andalusite, description of 488 

Anhydrite, descriptit )n of 489 

Annelida .■ 40 

Annual rei)ort for 1897, volume 1 of, when received 71 

report (1897), part 1, j^ublished , 129 

Anonuira, report on, completed 40 

Anthracite coal, description of 496 

Anthropological accessions, by coUectif )n 23 

gift 23 

permanent deposit 24 

purchase 23 

loans from private sources 24 

conditions on Tacific coast of California 161 

Studies in California, by William Henry Holmes 155 



INJJEX. ~ 701 

Page. 

Anthropology, department of, accessions to collections of 22 

care of collections in 24 

cataloguing, method of 25 

change in personnel of 21 

department offices of 21 

exhibition cases of 22 

field work of 28 

head curator of 77 

important ai-cessions to 23 

installation work of 2(i 

investigations l)y curator of 25 

loans made 1 ) y 29 

organization and personnel of 21 

■ re^jort of head curator on 21 

researches of 28 

storage of material belonging to 25 

work of labeling collections of 27 

important accessions to 15 

of Placer County, California 166 

preservation and arrangement of collections in 4 

Antiquities of California 176 

Antlions of North America, monograph of, begun 41 

Aphrizite, description of 533 

Apoda, loan of 43 

Apoi)hyllite, description of 489 

Appendix I 77 

Appendix II 79 

Appendix III 119 

Appendix IV 129 

Appendix V 151 

Applied geology, section of, guide to a study of collections in 49 

installation of systematic series in 47 

Appropriations for National Museum during year ending June 30, 1900 59 

for year ending June 30, 1900, table of . . 60 

for year ending June 30, 1901, table of . . 60 

Aquamarine, description of 490 

Ara tri(»lor, specimen of 36 

Arachnida, specimens of 37 

Aragonite, description of 494 

Araucarioxy Ion arizonicum, return of, to museum 49 

Archicological and ethnological t'ollection of the Academy of Sciences, Cali- 
fornia 174 

collections of California 1 73 

Golden Gate Museum, Cali- 
fornia 174 

collections at Avalon, California 182 

of Stockton district, California 177 

features of Nevada City, California 165 

Archfeology of California 161 

Nevada City, California 165 

southern California 181 

Arctic Alaska, harpoons of 267 

harpoons, Bering Sea types 283 



702 INDEX. 

Page. 

Arct ic harpoons, eiist Greenland types 237 

types of the central Eskimo 258 

west Greenland types 238 

Arkansite, description of •. 492 

Arnold, Delos, shells received from 36 

Arnold, ]\Irs. F. B., studies of invertebrates hy 42 

Ashe, W. W., specimens of plants lent to 67 

Ashmead, William H.; continuation of work on jinhlu atiuufi hy 41 

title of joint paper by 131 

titles of papers by 130, 131 

work of 39 

Asia, distribution of specimens in 125 

Asiatic arts and industries ot Califcjrnia 164 

Assistants of 3Iuseum, researches of 16 

Association for the Study of Comparative Religions, investigations l)y 29 

AtJ;iapas('an Indians of North America 225 

Australia, distribution of specimens in 127 

hymenoptera, report on 41 

Avalon, California, visit to 182 

Aventurine, description of 488, 515, 519 

Axinite, description of 489 

Aye-aye, purchase of skeleton of 36 

Azurite, description of 490 

Bagdad, description of tanbour of 425 

Bailey, Vernon, (crustaceans obtained by 69 

Bangs, Outram, collection of birds received from 36, 70 

comparisons of birds by . 42 

researches of 66 

titles of papers by 131 

Banks, Nathan, titles of papers by 131 

works of ^ 39 

Barbed and toggle head (^f harpoon from Mackenzie River district 271 

Point Barrow, Alaska 277, 278 

Upernavik, Greenland 260 

Greenland type 246, 248, 249, 250, 251 

liarpooji, connecting line of 200 

feathering of 200 

foreshaft of 199 

from Askeenuk 287 

CapeBlossom 280 

Cape K rusenstern , Kotzebue Sound 282 

Cape Nome, Alaska 291 

Kadiak 299 

Norton Sound area 285 

Nunivak Island, Alaska 292 

St. Michael, Alaska 285 

Greenland tyi)e 244 

head of 199 

head of, Greenland type 246, 247 

parts of 199 

shaft of 199 

seal harpoon from Arctic Alaska 271 

around Norton Bay 287 

Sledge Island, Alaska 291 



INDEX. 703 

Page. 

Barclay Sound liarpoon of North America 231 

Barite, description of 490 

Barnhart Bro!^. and Spindler, accessions in anthropology through 23 

Bartsch, Paul, titles of papers by 131, 132 

revision of shells by 40 

Basanite, description of 523 

Basket colleetions of California, private 174 

secured from Nevada City, California 165 

making by Coahnila Indians of California, process of 185 

Tulare Indians of CaHfornia 180 

Indian children of California engaged in 186 

of Pomo Indians, California 174 

Basketry of California 163 

Hi-eet Indians of California 165 

Indians at Todd's Valley, California 169 

Paiute Indians of California 172 

Ukiah, ^lendocino County, California 174 

Bass, method of catching, l)y New England Indians 235 

Batracliian exlulntion of National Museum 16 

Bats, collection of 15, 35 

Bean, Barton A., explorations of, in Vineyard Sound region 69 

fish collections made by 17, 36 

ichthyological investigations of 34, 40 

title of joint paper by 144 

paper by 132 

Beans, process of thrashing by Indians of California 179 

Beckwith, Paul, assignment of, to duties of aid 21 

Beecher, Dr. C. E. , model of stylonurus restored by 46 

Beekite, description of 523 

Benient, C. S., private meteorite collections of 50 

Benedict, J. E., monograph of the galatheida-, nearly completed by 40 

report on anomura completed by 40 

Benguiat collection of Jewish ceremonial objects, catalogue of complet^jd 28 

Benson, H. C, collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Bering Sea harpoons 283, 289 

Beryl, description of 490 

mystical properties of 566 

BeryDonite, descrii>tion of 491 

Beutenmiiller, William, specimens supplied to 66 

Bibliography, list of authors of papers in 148 

of gems 649 

National Museum for year ending June 30, 1900 129 

Biological Survey, cooperation of, with National Museum 68 

of the Department of Agriculture, mammal collections of. . 31 

Biology, dei)artment of, accessions to 34, 36 

distribution (jf duplicates in 44 

exploratic )ns by 33 

field work in 34 

head curator of 77 

improvement of exhibition halls of 31 

loan of specimens of 42 

personnel of 44 

preparation for the Pan-American Exposition made by. 44 

preservation and arrangement of collections in 4 



7U4 INDEX. 

Page. 

Biology, department of, report of liead curator on 31 

researches and i)ublications of 40 

study collections of 38 

use of collections in 42 

Bird collection in Smithsonian l)uilding 16 

collections added to National Museum 15 

Birds, division of 38 

Bishop, Dr. Loiiis B. , researches of 42, 66 

title of paper by 132 

Bishop Memorial Museum, shells received from 36 

Bloodstone, description of 524 

mystical properties of 566 

Bluefish, method of catching, by New England Indians 235 

Bone turquoise, description of 517 

Bororo Indians of South America, harpoon arrows of 217 

Botanical laboratory, improvements in 39 

Botany, Division of, cooperation of, with National Museum 68 

Bowdish, B. S. , collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Bowenite, description of 527 

Brachyura, report on 40 

Branner- Agftssiz Expedition of 1899 37 

Branner, Dr. J. C. , collection of crustaceans presented by 37 

(crustacean collection made by 40, 70 

Brazilian harpoons 216 

sapphire, description of 533 

Bread making by Pomo Indians of California 1, 75 

Brewerton, large number of harpoon heads found at 235 

Bridle harpoon, from mouth of Yukon River 286 

British Coluinbia sponges ^ 37 

Guiana, harpoon arrows of 218 

Britton, N. L., specimens of plants lent to 67 

Brockett, Paul, in.stallation work of 27 

Bronzes, ( 'hinese, catalogue of Hippisley collection of 414 

Bronzite, description of 507 

Brookite, description of 492 

Brown coal, description of 497 

Buildings of National Museum 61 

Bulletin No. 39, papers published in separate form from 152 

No. 39, Parts M, N, and O published 129 

No. 47, Part IV, when printed 71 

No. 47, Part IV published 129 

Bureau of American Ethnology, loans made to 29 

Burial pit at Mercer's cave, California 172 

Busck, August, insects collected by 37, 69 

Cabot Steam Whaling Company 34 

Cairngorm, description of 524 

Calcite, description of :. 494 

California, aborigines, culture of 161 

food of, exclusively animal 164 

origin of 163 

uniformity in physical characters of 162 

Academy of Sciences, specimens received from 37 

Anthropological Studies in, by William Henry Holmes 155 



INDEX. 705 

Page. 

California, antiquities 176 

an-ha^ology of 161 

culture 1 62, 164 

Indian ceremonial costume 180 

peoples, origin of 162 

sculpture 162 

tribes, fishing devices of _ 224 

remnants of 161 

Californian and Mexican Indians favored inland fishing 224 

C'allainite, description of 534 

Calvert, Frank, investigations in prehistoric archseology made by 29 

Cambrian braehiopods, specimens of 46 

trilobite, sj)ecimens of, received in exchange 46 

Canada, distribution of specimens in _ 119 

( 'ancrinite, description of 494 

Cannel coal, description of 496 

( 'anterbury ^luseum, collection of Moa bones received from 64 

Carbonate of lime, description of 492 

Cardiidte, revision of group of 40 

Carnegie Museum, models loaned to 29, 66 

Carnelian, description of 524 

mystical properties of 567 

Casi^inite, description of 519 

Cassiterite, description of 494 

('atalogue of the Collections of Gems in the U. S. National Museum, Descrip- 
tive, by Wirt Tassin 473 

Hippisley collection of Chinese bn^nzes 414 

Chinese egg-shell porcelain 404 

C'hinese porcelain snuff- bottles 411 

Chinese porcelains 367 

Chinese vitreous ware 405 

old Ciiinese lacquer ware 416 

processes of preparing Hopi ceremonial pigments 469 

special group of vitreous ware and of jjorcelain made, with It as 
model, to secure a like transi)arency of color with increased 

brilliancy of ground 405 

the Isaac Lea collection of gems 587 

the Meteorite Collection in the IT. S. National Museum, to Janu- 
ary 1, 1902, Descriptive, by Wirt Tassin 071 

Catalogues of several divisions, number of entries of accessions made in 62 

Cataloguing of collections in dejjartment of anthropology 25 

( 'atlin ])aintings in National jMuseum 16 

Catlinite, description of 495 

Cat's-eye, description of 495, 496 

mystical projjcrties of 568 

Caudell, Andicw N., title of paper by 132 

Ceramic art in China, a Sketch of the History of, with a Catalogue of the Hijv 
j)isley Collection of Chinese Porcelaitis, by Alfred E. 

Hippisley 305 

information regarding history of 309 

Ceramics, section of, assignment of 27 

Ceremonial costume of Tulare Indians, Califi)rnia 180 



706 INDEX. 

Page. 

Chalcedony, description of 524 

mystical properties of" 568 

Chang-yao porcelain, manufacture of 326 

Chapman, F. M., collection of meadow larks loaned to 43, 66 

Ch 'enghua eggshell porcelain, sjiecimens of 335 

period, history of ceramic art in China during 337 

Chengte period, history of ceramic art in China during 339 

Chiaching }>eriod, history of ceramic art in China during 339 

Chiastolite, descriptioii of 489 

Chichow-yao ])orcelain, description of 328 

Chien-yao porcelain, description of 329 

Chilean and Peruvian harpoons, rudeness of 216 

type of South American harpoons 214 

Chilkotin Indians of western Canada, harpoons of 232 

Chimmesyan branch of North American Indians, location jf 231 

Chin dynasty, history of ceramic art in China during 312 

Chinese and European systems of porcelain manufacture co)ni)ared 357 

bronzes, catalogue of Hippisley collection of 414 

eggshell porcelain, catalogue of Hippisley collection of 404 

lacquer ware, catalogue of Hippisley collection of 416 

porcelain, antiquity of true 314 

catalogue of Hippisley collection of 267 

commercial route followed 352 

description of Chichow-yao variety 328 

Chien-yao variety 329 

Ho-yao variety 330 

Hsiao-yao variety 328 

Hsiuchow-yao variety 329 

Hsiianchow-yao variety 330 

Hut ien-yao variety 330 

Linch 'uan-yao varietj' 330 

Lishui-yao variety 329 

Nanfeng-yao variety 330 

Nien-yao variety 342 

Ssuchow- yao variety 329 

T'ang-yi-yao variety 329 

Tengchow-yao \'ariety 329 

Ting-yao variety 330 

Wuni-yao variety 329 

Yaochow-yao variety 329 

Yiihang-yao variety 329 

earliest extant dates from Sung dynasty 319 

mention of 310 

eggshell variety 334 

French method of painting 344 

history of, during Ch 'enghua period 337 

Chengte period 339 

Chiaching period 339 

Chin dynasty 312 

Han dynasty ., 311 

Hsiiante period 335 

Hungchih period 338 

Lungch ing period .- . 340 



INDEX. 707 

I'age. 

Chinese porcelain, history of, (hiriuir Minj; dynasty 330 

present dynasty 341 

Sni dynasty 312 

Sung dynasty 320 

T'ang dynasty 313 

Wanh period 340 

Wef dynasty 311 

Ynan dynasty 329 

Yunglo period 333 

from 1 723 to 1 796 342 

1796 to 1820 349 

1821 to 1850 350 

1850tolS8S 350 

introduction of colored ilecoratioii for 320 

into Europe 350 

kind carried westward 354 

less celebrated varieties of, pnxhiced durin<i Sun^r dynasty. 328 

manufacture of Chang-yao 326 

Chi'ni-yao 327 

.Tuchou 321 

.Tu-yao 321 

Ko-yao 326 

Kuan-yao 323 

Lungch 'iiau 325 

Ting-yao 324 

Tung-ch 'ing-yao 328 

origin of term "porcelain" 316 

{>eriod in which it is claimed true i>orcelain was first made. 311 

snuff bottles, catalogue of Hi])pisley collection of 411 

summary of collection of 366 

Chittenden, Frank H., titles of papers by 132, 133, 134 

Chlorastrolite, description of 520 

Chlorophane, descrij)tion of 509 

Chondrodite, description of _ 495 

Chromic iron, description of 512 

Chrysoberyl, description of 495 

mystical properties 568 

ChrysoV)eryllus, tlescription of 491 

Chrysocolla, description of 496 

Chrysolite, description of 516 

mystical projierties of 568 

Chrysolithus, description of 491 

Chrysoprase, description of 524 

mystical properties of 569 

Chiin-yao porcelain, manufacture of 327 

Citrini, mysticiil properties of 569 

Clark, A. H., honorary custodian of Section of American History 27 

Clark, Dr. Hubert L., application from, for use of collections 43 

researches of 66 

Clarke, Frank W., specimens from division of mineralogy furnished 56 

titles of joint jtapers by 134 

Clarke, John M. , fossil collection of 46 

title of joint i)aper by 134 

paper by 134 



708 INDEX. 

Page. 

Clay, use of, in California 164 

Clifton, C. E., etlinolo<i:ic'al purchase from 24 

Clute, Williard N. , specimens of plants lent to 67 

Coahuila Indians of California, visit to 185 

Coal, description of 496 

Co])altite, description of 497 

Cockerell, T. D. A., collection of hymenoptera loaned to 43-66 

insects received throug:h 37 

Coleopteia — '^7, 39 

Collection of Ilopi C'eremonial Pigments, by Walter Hough 463 

Collections, care of, in department of anthropology 24 

of (lems in U. S. National Museum, Des(;riptive Catalogue of the, 

by Wirt Tassin 473 

Colonial Dames, National Society of, loan by .- 24 

Comparative anatomy, hall of, no important change in 32 

tables of the colors and distinguishing characters of the better- 
known gems 537 

Composite jnusic-al instruments 436 

Congo emerald, description of 507 

Contributions to the History of Musical Scales, by Charles Kasson Wead 417 

Cook Inlet, North America, l)arl)ed harpoons of 232 

Cooke, George H., title of jiaper by 134 

Coolidge, Dane, collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Cope, f]d ward Drinker, monograph treatise by 71 

Coquillett, Daniel W. , monographs of flies prepared by 41 

titles of papers by 134, 135 

work of, on the diptera 39 

Coral, description of 493 

mystical properties of 569 

Cormorant, Harris's, skeleton of : 36 

Corundum, description of 497 

Cotheal, Miss E. H., gift of 24 

Coulter, Dr. J. M., publication of 41 

Coutiere, Dr. H., crustacean specimens loaned to i 43, 66 

Coville, Frederick V., accompanied the Harriman Alaskan expedition 17, 69 

Alaskan plants collected by 38, 69 

honorary curator division of plants, statement by 39 

Cox, W. v., designated as chief special agent 74 

Cragin collection of fossils 46 

Oaver, Samuel P., collecting outfit furnished to • 79 

Crayfishes, work on 42 

Crocidolite, description of 499 

Crosby, F. W., interest shown by 52 

materials obtained and set up under direction of 49 

Crustaceans • 37 

CuV)an macaw, specimen of 36 

Culin, Stewart, part of collection of primitive games lent to 29, 65 

Curator of division of birds, detail of 38 

Currie, R. P., mammals colle(;ted by - 41 

monograph of antlions of North America begun by 41 

title of paper by 135 

work of 39 

Curtiss, A. H., plants presented by 37 



INDEX. 7oy 

Page. 

Gushing, Frank Hamilton, reference to death of 59, 74 

Cutting of gem stone^^ - 547 

Cymophane, description of 496 

Cyprine, description of -. 535 

Dall, "WilHam H., expedition of, to Alaska 1 7, 09 

honorary curator, report (if 38 

mollusk coUec^tion made 1 )y 35, G9 

revision of bivalve mollnsks, by 40 

shell specimens presented by 36 

titles (if pajiers l)y 1 35, 136 

Damourile, description of 500 

Daniel. .T. W., jr., bats presented by 35 

collecting outfit fnrnished to 70 

Dardanelles mine, California I<i7 

I>arton, N. H., sandstones collected by 50 

Datolite, descrijition of 500 

Daughters of the American Revolution, loan by 24 

Davidsonite, description of 491 

De Chalmot, Mrs. Marie, jilant collection donated by 37 

Decapod crustacea of West Africa, report on, comjileted 40 

crustaceans, transfer of 40 

Decapoda, beginning made toward report on 40 

collection of 41 

Deerskins, process of dressing, by Indians of California 187 

Definition of gem minerals 481 

Department of Agriculture, Alaskan plants transmitted liy 38 

biological survey of, crustaceans received from ... 37 

collections contributed to museum by 69 

cooperation of, with National ^luseum 68 

insect collection transmitted by 37 

anthropology, department offices of 21 

Description of minerals used as gems 487 

Descriptive Catalogue of the Collections of ( lems in the V. S. National .Musenm, 

by Wirt Tassin 473 

Meteorite Collection in the V . S. National Mnseum, 

to January 1, 1902. by Wirt Tassin 671 

Devonian fossils, specimens of 46 

Dewey, Admiral George, accessions in anthro[)ology through .• 23 

installation of relics deposited by 27 

loan by 24 

Diamond, description of 500 

mystical properties of 571 

Diaspore, description of 506 

Diceratherium, purchase of portion of 46 

Dichroite, description of 512 

TMnosaur, femur of 55 

limb bones of 47 

Diopside, description of 506 

Dioptase, description of 506 

Diptera, loan of specimens of 43 

DisV)ursements from unexpended balances of appropriations for year ending 

June 30, 1899, table of 60 

Disthene, description of 513 



710 INDEX. 

Page. 

Distrilnition of specimens during year ending June 30, 1900, statement of 119 

Divii^ion of birds, detail of curator of 38 

work of taxidermists of 73 

comparative anatomy, work of curator of 38 

insects, report of honorary curator of 38 

mammals, publications of 41 

rearrangement of specimens in 38 

marine invertebrates, report on scientific work of, ))y Richard 

Rathbun. . \ 40 

sea unrhin collection f)f 38 

mollusks, report of honorary curator of 38 

j)lants, extension of lal)oratory of _ 33 

statement by honorary curator of 39 

Doane, R. W., collection of diptera loaned to 66 

Dodge, Col. W. C, purchase from 24 

Dodson, Rev. AV. P., ethnological purchase from 24 

Doran, Charles, postage-stamp collec^tion presented l>y 23 

Dress of Ponio Indians of California 175 

Drill, forms of, of Pomo Indians, California 175 

Di-iver, Fred, collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Drosophilida', monograph of Hies of family 41 

Dumortierite, descrij)tion of 507 

Durfee, 0. S., collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Dyar, Harrison G. , titles <jf papers by 136, 137 

work of 39 

Dynasties, the five, history of ceramic art in China during , 318 

Dynasty, Chin, history of ceramic art in China during 312 

llan, history of (;eraniic art in China during 311 

Ming, history of ceramic art in China during 330 

present, history of ceramic art in C'hina during 341 

iSui, history of ceramic art in China during 312 

Sung, earliest porcelain extant dates from 319 

history of ceramic art in China during 320 

less celebrated varieties of Chinese porcelain ])ruduccil during. 328 

T'ang, history of ceramic art in China during 313 

Wei, history of ceramic art in China during 311 

Yuan, history of cerami(r art in China during 329 

Earthen vases (jf California 163 

pjarthenware, rarity of, in California 163 

Earthworks of aborigines of Stockton district, California 176, 177 

or mounds of aborigines of Stockton district, California, were used 

as burial places 1 76 

East Greenland harpoons 237 

Eastman, Dr. C. R., fishes described by 46 

fossil gars studied by 67 

lepidosteus simplex lent to 56 

Eaton, Alvah A., specimens of i)lants lent to 67 

Edwards, C. L. , researches of 43, 66 

Eggshell i>orcelain, Ch 'enghua specimens 335 

Chinese, special grouj) of 404 

description of 334 

summary of collection of 366 

Eigenmann, Dr. C. H. , crustacean presented l)y 37 



INDEX. 711 

Page. 

Electrii'ity, liijhtin.ij; by, of bird oasop 16 

p]li()t, Sir Charles, niollusk collection tunieil over to Musemn by oo, 70 

Elotheriuni, purchase of portion of 46 

Emerakl, description of -" - 490 

mystical properties of 574 

Enstatite, description of 507 

Entomology, division of, cooperation of, with National Museum 68 

Ephydridfe, monographs of flies of family 41 

Epidote, description of " 508 

Equus excelsus, loan of specimen of 56 

Eskimo harpooning, process of ^67 

harpoons, description of - 258 

hinged-lance variety 237 

varieties of 236 

AVest Greenland type 238 

present method of, in killing whale, seal, etc 303 

seal hunting, description of 259-291 

Ethnographic chart of North America 231 

Ethnology, assistant curator of, concerning 28 

curator of, progress made by 28 

division of, installation work of 26 

investigations in 29 

Euclase, description of - - - 508 

Europe, distribution of specimens in 125 

introduction of Chinese porcelain into 350 

European and Chinese systems of porcelain manufacture compared 357 

mandolin 424 

Evermaun, Barton Warren, publii-ation by - 71 

specimens of plants lent to 67 

title of joint paper by - 137 

Exhibition cases of department of anthroi)ology 22 

halls of department of biology, improvement of 31 

series of National Museum, changes in 16 

Expenditures of National Museum during year ending June 30, 1900, table of. 60 

Exi)lorations by department of biology 33 

Exposition, Pan-American, preparation for, made by deiiartment of biology.. 44 

Expositions 74 

Fairy stone, description of 530 

Fernald, C. H., specimens su[)plied to 66 

Field Columbian Museum, Tlopi o))je(;ts in 406 

work in department of anthropology 28 

biology 34 

Fisii collection -^6 

added to National Museum 15 

Connnission, collections contributed to Museum liy 69 

cooperation of, with National ^fuseum 67 

lish collections transmitted by 36 

exhiljition of National Museum 16 

Fish-eye stone, description of 489 

Fishes of North and Middle America, comi^letion of manual of 40 

when printed 71 

Five dynasties, the, history of ceramic art in ("hina during 318 

Flat toggle head harpoon from west Greenland 244 

NAT MUS 1900 48 



712 INDEX. 

Page. 

Flint, description of 524 

Flint, James M . , further services of, accepted 59 

ingtallation work of 27 

title of jiaper by 137 

Float of North American harjujons 227 

Flnorite, dencription of 508 

Flute type, instruments of the 426 

Foods of aborigines of California exclusively animal 164 

Forepaugh and Sells Brothers, rhinoceros presented by 36 

Forest Hill, Placer County, California 166 

Fossil gar, spe(umen of, received through exchange 46 

turquoise, description of 517 

Fowlerite, description of 526 

Free-tailed American l)ats, work of G. S. Miller, jr., on 41 

Freie Vereinigung Tiroler Botaniker, plants sent to 64 

Fritsch, Dr. Anton, collections lent to - - - 56, 67 

specimens received in exchange from 46 

Froggatt, W.W. , hymenoptera bred by 41 

Fuegian type of South American harpoons 213 

Gadolinite, des(;ription of - 509 

Galapagos Islands, land shells from 36 

Galatheida% monograi)h of, nearly completed 40 

Gambling l)y Tulare Indians of Calfornia, ])rocess of 181 

tray of Tulare Indians of California 180 

Game laws of Sacramento Valley, California 222 

Gane, Henry Stewart, title of paper by 137 

Garnet, almandite, description of 510 

andradite, descrijition of 511 

car))uncle, description of 510, 511 

coloi)honite, description of 511 

demantoid, description of 511 

description of 509 

glossularite, description of 510 

hyacinth, description of 511 

jacinta, description of 511 

lime-aluminum, description of 509 

melanite, description of 511 

mystical properties of 575 

ouvarovite, description of 511 

pyrope, description of 510 

rhodolite, description of - 510 

romanzovite, description of 510 

ru))ino-di-rocca, description of 511 

spessartite, description of - 510 

topazolite, description of - 510 

uralian emerald, description of 511 

vermeille, description of 511 

wiluite, description of 510 

Gem cijllection, increase in 46 

minerals, cleavage 486 

(tolor of 481 

definition and properties of 481 

diaphaneity of 482 



INDEX. 713 

Page. 

Gem mineral?, disperpion of li>:ht 484 

eleetri(;ity 486 

form 487 

fraetui-e 486 

har(lne>«s of 484 

hij^ter of 482 

phosjiliorci^cence 484 

pU'ochroiKm • 484 

polarization of light 484 

refraction of light 482 

specifi'! gravity 485 

stones, brilliant cut 547 

cal )ochon cnt 552 

cutting of 547 

half brilliant cut 549 

Portuguese cut 550 

rose cut 551 

star ctit 550 

step brilliant or mixed cut 552 

tabic cut 552 

trap brilliant cut 550 

trap or step cut 551 

Gems l>etter-kno\vn, Idack-colored, comparative table of the colors and distin- 
guishing characters of the 542 

blue stones, comparative table of the colors and distin- 
guishing characters of the 542 

brown stones, comparative table of the colors and dis-tin- 

guishing characters of the 539 

comparative tables of the colors and distinguishing char- 
acters of the 537 

green stones, comparative table oi the colors and distin- 
guishing characters of the 541 

having a nacreous luster, comparative talile of the colors 

and distinguishing (characters of 543 

having a play of color or irides(;ence, comparative table of 

the colors and distinguishing (characters of 543 

having chatoyant reflections, comparative table of the 

colors and tlistinguishing characters of 543 

having star-lik(> retiections, comi)arati ve table of the colors 

and distinguishing characters of 543 

limpid or colorless, comparative table of tluc colors and 

distinguishing characters of the 537 

pink stones, comparative table of the colors and distin- 
guishing characters of the 540 

red and Hame-colored, comparative table of the colors 

and distinguishing characters of the 539 

reddish yellow or orange, comparative table of the colors 

and distinguishing characters of the 540 

violet or ainethystiiu;, comparative table of the colors and 

distinguishing characters of the 542 

yellow stones, comparative table of the colors and distin- 
guishing characters of the 538 

bibliography of 649 



714 INDEX. 

Page. 

Gturi catalofrue of the Isaac Lea (collection of 587 

Descriptive Catalogue of the Collections of, in the U. S. National Mu- 
seum, by Wirt Tassin - 473 

imitations, sophistications, and artificial formation of 553 

index of names of 544 

minerals used as, description of 487 

mystical properties of 558 

of'the Bible 556 

Geological-Paleontological Institue, Munich, Germany, fossil specimens sentto . 64 

Survey, accessions through 46, 69 

cooperation of, with National Museum 67 

Jurassic fishes transferred to Museum by 46 

Geology, department of, accessions to 45 

assistance afforded students and investigators by 56 

f onn of label adopted by 48 

future work of 56 

head curator of 78 

present condition of collections in 49 

progress in installation in 47 

report of head curator on 45 

researches of 51 

sources of new material in 52 

division of, important materials received l)y 45 

material sent out from 56 

exhibition series ^in, essentially completed 16 

preservation and arrangement of collections in 4 

Gidley, J. W., specimen of equus excelsus lent to 56 

specimens of fossil horse remains sent to 67 

Giers, Ernest T. , bats presented by 35 

Girty, George H., titles of papers by 137 

Glassford, Maj. W. A. , Cuban macaw received from 36 

Glen Island Museum, fossil gar received from, through exchange . . ., 46 

Coding, F. AV. , accessions in anthropology through 23 

Gold, description of 511 

Golden beryl, description of 491 

Golden Gate Museum of San Francisco, California, scientific collections of ... . 174 

Goldman, E. A., crustaceans obtained by 69 

Goode, G. Brown, appropriation for purchase of library of 59 

biographical account of, where contained 71 

labors of, in U. . S. National Museum 11 

Goodfellow collection of humming birds, purchase of 35 

Goshenite, description of 490 

Gosling, F. G. , collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Gothite, description of 511 

Grabau, Dr. A. W., mollusk collections investigated by 42 

Graham, A. W., researches of 66 

Granite outcrop, with mortars sunk in surface, near Columbia, California 171 

Grant, F. K. McK., specimens received from 64 

Graphic Arts, section of, improvements in installation of 27 

Granite, description of 519 

Gravel mines at Todd's Valley, California 168 

Gray I lerbarium, specimens of plants lent to 66 

Great Britain, distribution of specimens in 126 



INDEX. 715 

Page. 

Great Lakos of North Amorioa, harliod luirpoon lunuls found a))ont 235 

Greek "riiitar 424 

Greeley, A. W., cru.stacea collected l)y 40 

Greene, K. T>., botanical investigations of 42 

services of, in preparation of herbarium specimens 44 

Greenland harpoon 251 

descri ption and uses f)f 239 

Xrriffis, \V. Iv, investigations in divisions of ethnology and somatology made l)y. 29 

Grinding })latc^ and nniller used in California 1(52 

Cirueby Faii'uce Comi>any, loan hy 24 

Guanaco, skeleton of, obtained 36 

Guesde, Louis, ethnological purchase from , 24 

Guthrie, Leon J. , bats imrchased from 35 

Gypsum, description of 511 

Haeltzukan branch of North American Indians, location of 231 

Haida Indians of North America, harpoons of ' 231 , 232 

Hall ( )f comparative anatomy, no important change in 32 

History in National Museum 1(> 

Hall, Robert W., loan of specimens to 4.'!, (ifi 

I Iaml)ach, Dr. G. , collections lent to 56 

Hammond Typewriter Company, typewriters presented ])y 23 

Han dynasty, history of ceramic art in China during 311 

Harpoon, accessories to 209 

arrows of Eskimo of North America 243 

North American Indians 243 

used on north and south side of Alaskan j)en insula 297 

darts from Bristol Bay, Alaska 294 

fmidamental parts of 198 

head from Cimiberland Sound 264 

Point Barrow, Alaska 276, 277, 278 

of aljorigines of Western Hemisphere, description of 197 

Cumberland area 267 

Cumljerland Sound 302 

Greenland 251 

Pueblo region of North America 221 

shaft from southern Greenland 255 

the 303 

toggle head from Nuwuk, Alaska 279 

Smith Sound 259 

varieties of 1 99 

Harpooning by Indians on Sacramento River, California 222 

Harpoons, Al)original American: A Study in Ethnic Distril»ution and Inven- 
tion, by Otis Tufton Mason 189 

forms of, used by Greenlanders 240 

help afforded archjeologist by 304 

help afforded ethnologist by 304 

of Arctic Alaska 2()7 

Bering Sea 283 

central Eskimo 258 

Nicaragua and Honduras 220 

North America 219 

west (ireenlantl, des(;ri ption and uses (jf 239 



7l(i - INDEX. 

Page. 

Harpoons, re!^eml)lance between 304 

rudeness of Chile ^ 216 

Peruvian 216 

Harriman Alaskan Kxjiedition, collections of, added to National Museum 15 

Harriman, Edward II., insect collection presented by 35 

invitation of, to members of biological staff 34 

Harris's cormorant, skeleton of 36 

Hatcher, Prof. J. B., collections by 23, 40 

Hawaiian Inrds, collection of 36 

Islands, crustaceans from 37 

land shells from 36 

Hay, O. P., paleozoic flshes studied bv 56. 67 

titles of papers by 137 

Hay, W. P., title of paper by 138 

work of, on crayfishes 42, 66 

Heidemann, O., work done l)y 39 

Heimel , Anton, specimens of plants lent to 67 

Heliolite, description of 517 

Heliotrope, description of 524 

Hematite, description of - - - - 512 

Henderson, L. F. , specimens of plants lent to 67 

Henshaw, H. W. , bird collection purchased from 36 

collection of Haw^aiian crustaceans received from 37, 70 

Herbarium extensive use of 43 

specimens added to 15, 37 

Hiddenite, descrii:)tion of 529 

Hilder, H. H., collections made by 28, 68 

Hillebrand, W. F. , carnotite furnished to 56 

Hinged lance of east Greenland 237 

Hippisley, Alfred E., on A Sketch of the History of Ceramic Art in China, 

with a Catalogue of the Hippisley Collection ( )f Chinese Porcelains 305 

collection of Chinese bronzes, catalogue of 414 

eggshell porcelain, catalogue of 404 

porcelain snuff-bottles, catalogue of 411 

porcelains, catalogue of 367 

old Chinese lacquer ware, catalogue of 416 

History, division of, installation work of 26 

of Ceramic Art in China, with a Catalogue of the Hippesley Collection 

of Chinese Porcelains, A Sketch of the, by Alfred E. Hippisley . . . 305 

of Musical Scales, Contributions to the, by Charles Kasson Wead . . . 417 

Hitchco(;k, C. H., collection of volcanic rocks, made by 51 

geological material received from 52, 70 

Holland, distribution of specimens in 126 

Holm, Theodor, specimens of plants lent to 67 

Holinan, F. C, collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Holmes, William H., anthroi)ological researches by 17, 68 

head curator of department of anthropology 77 

report of . . 21 

on vVnthropological Studies in California 155- 

relics collected by 23, 28 

title of paper by 138 

Holothurians, collections of 43 



INDEX. 717 

Page. 

Hopi ceremonial paints! in the national collection 465 

Pigments', a Collection of, by Walter Hougli 463 

Indian beans 466 

corn 466 

Indians apply color with meaning 466 

are assiduous collectors 465 

beliefs of 467 

catalogue of processes in j>reparation of colore by 469 

ceremonial sand painting of 467 

ceremonies of 467 

color of prayer offerings of 467 

colors of baskets of 466 

costume of 466 

pigments of 465 

pottery of 466 

corn principal nourishment among 466 

discrimination of color by 466 

emblematic colors of 467 

face ]>ainting of 468 

paint mortars of stone of 468 

painting of dwellings of 466 

pigments and dyes of, remarka)>le for numl)er and diversity of 

origin 465 

region of, remarkal)le for natural colors 466 

skill of, in applying pigments 468 

orientation 467 

Horn, Dr. , description by 37 

Hornblende, description of - - - 512 

Hornstone, description of 524 

Hornung, J. , collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Hough, Dr. Walter, collection of Mexican plants made by 17 

Mexican expedition of 28, 34, 68 

objects collected by 23 

on A Collection of Hopi Ceremonial Pigments 463 

title of paper by 138 

Howard, Leland O. , honorary curator, report of 38 

title of joint paper by 138 

titles of papers l)y 138 

Howe, Reginald Heber, jr. , titles of papers by 139 

Ho-yao porcelain, description of 330 

IIrdli(!ka, Dr. A., Shoshone and Ute crania lent to 29, 65 

Hsiao-yao porcelain, description of 328 

Hsiuchow-yao porcelain, description of 329 

Hsiianchow-yao porcelain, description of 330 

Hsiiante period, history of ceramic art in China during 335 

Hubbaril collection 37 

Hulst, Rev. George B., specimens supplied to 66 

Human remains found near Springfield, California 171 

Huiid)oldt Bay Indians of North America, harpoons of 223 

Humming l>ird.-^, purchase of Goodfellow collection of 35 

Humi)l)a(-k whale, skeleton of 31 

Hungchili period, history of ceramic art in China during 338 

Hupa Indians of North America, harpoons of 223 



718 INDEX. 

Page. 

Hut'ien-yao porcelain, description of 330 

Hyacinth, description of - 536 

1 1 yacinthozontei?, description of 491 

Hyaline, description of 524 

Hyalosiderite, description of 516 

Hyena, spotted, skeleton of, obtained 36 

Hynienoptera, loan of collection of 43 

Hypersthene, descrii^tion of 507 

Hysell, J. H. , collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Idocrase, description of 536 

Ihnenite, des(Tiption of 512 

Ilvaite, description of 513 

Implements and utensils of Indians found at Potts Valley, California 183 

found in Indian grave at Potts Valley, California 184 

of California, difference in finish 168 

natives collected at Placer County, California 167 

present aboriginees of California for milling purposes 165 

Stockton district, California 177 

stone found in 1864, near Forest Hill, C'alifornia 166 

used in harpooning Arctic seal 269 

Index of names of gems 544 

Indian basketry collection of National Museum 16 

community near Jamestown, California, description of 170 

on the slopes of Table Mountain, California 170 

dwelling at Todd's Valley, California, des(Tiption of 168 

Yankee Jim, California 168 

family at Adams place, California 172 

granary near Murphys, California 172 

grave discovered at Potts Valley, California 184 

houses north of Murphys, California, description of 172 

settlement in Todd's Valley, California, visit to 168 

village overlooking Murphys, California 172 

sites found at Sawmill Flat, California 171 

south of Murphys, California 172 

Indians, Hi-eet village near Nevada City, California 165 

of Placer County, California 166 

Stockton district, California, artistic sense of 177 

Indicolite, description of 533 

Insects, division of, report of honorary curator of 38 

exhibits of 83 

specimens of 37 

Invertebrate fossils, progress in installation of 16 

paleontology, section of, accessions to 46 

form of label adopted by 48 

progress in installation in 47 

specimens lent from 56 

lolite, description of 512 

mystical properties of 587 

I ron toggle head in lierlin Museum of Ethnology 301 

Iroquois harpoon of North America 235 

Indians of North America, sturgeon spear of 235 

Isopod crustacean 37 



INDEX. 7iy 



Isopoda 40 

i-oUection of 41 

of the Atlantic coast of North America, account of, nearly (■onii)lete<l . 41 

Isopods, work continued on 42 

Isojn're, description of 513 

Italy, distriVmtion of specimens in 127 

Jacintli, description of 5:56 

mystical properties of 576 

Jade, description of 513 

mystical jiroperties of 576 

Jadeite, description of 513 

Japanese and Korean fishes, loan of collections of 43 

fishes, collection of 36 

hymenoptera, reports on 41 

Jargon, description of 536 

Jasper, description of 524 

mystical properties of 576 

Jennings, Foster, investigations in divisions of ethnology and somatology 

made hy 29 

Jet, coal, description of 496 

mystical properties of 577 

Jordan and Evermann's manual of Fishes of North and Middle America, com- 
pletion of 40 

Jordan, David S., tish collection loaned to 66 

Japanese fish collection ohtained through 36 

publication by 71 

Juchou porcelain, manufacture of 321 

Jurassic fishes, types of new 46 

invertebrates, collection of 55 

Ju-yao porcelain, manufacture of 321 

Kaheita barbed harpoon head of North America 230 

Kaiak harpoon lance from Ilolstenberg, Greenland 256 

Kearney, T. H., plants collected by 38, 69 

Kellogg, Vernon L., title of paper by 139 

Kelsey, F. W., shells received from 36 

Kincaid, Trevor, insects collected by 35, 69 

Kishinouye, K., title of paper by 139 

Knowlton, Frank Hall, plants described and figured by 46 

titles of papers by 139 

Koel)ele, Albert, Australian hymenoptera collected by 41 

Kofoid, C. A. , presentation by 37 

Ko-yao porcelain, manufacture of 326 

Kuan-yao porcelain, manufacture of 323 

Kyanite, description of 513 

Lal)eling in department of anthropology 27 

Labradorite, description of 514 

Lacquer ware, Chinese, catalogue of Hippisley collection of 416 

Lance head of Greenland harpoon 260 

harjjoon from Cumberland Sound 265 

Langley, S. P., letter from, regarding transfer of Marsh collection of vertel)rates 54 

to, regarding transfi-r of Marsh collection of vertebrates. 53 

Secretary of Smithsonian Institution 77 

Languages of California 164 



720 INDEX. 

Page. 

Lant, John A., purchase from 24 

Lapis-laziih, description of - 514 

mystical properties of 577 

Lea, Isaac, collection of gems, catalogue of 587 

Leelite, description of , - - - 519 

Lelaiid Stanford Junior University, cormorant skeleton received in exchange 

from 36 

fish collection presented by 36, 70 

land shells received from 36 

loan to 43 

Lemmings, loan of collection of 43 

Leon, Perry M. De, accessions in anthropology through 23 

Lepidolite, description of 515 

Lepidoptera 39 

Lepidosteus, skull of 52 

atrox, donation of, to Museum 55 

skull, and large part of body of 46 

simplex, loan of 56 

specimen of, received through exchange 46 

Leuciscus, specimens of, received from Geological Survey 46 

Lewis, George C. , collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Library of Congress, gift of 24 

National Museum 72 

Lime-aluminum garnet, description of 509 

carbonate of, description of ^ 492 

Linch'uan-yao porcelain, description of 330 

Lintonite, description of - - 530 

Lishui-3'ao porcelain, description of 329 

Lithia emerald, description of 529 

Lithoxyle 518 

Little, Mrs. Joseph, wedding dress of 23 

Loans made by department of anthropology 29 

Lo Bianco, Salvatore, title of paper by 71, 139 

Lodestone, description of 515 

mystical properties of - - . 577 

Loose shaft and point of l)arbed Greenland harpoon 244 

Lord, E. C. E., eruptive rocks from Maine coast studied by 56, 67 

Lovett, Edward, collections received from 64 

Lucas, F. A., researches of 41, 51 

Lungch'ing period, history of ceramic art in China during 340 

Lungch'iian porcelain, manufacture of 325 

Liitken, C. F., title of joint paper by 139 

Lydian stone, descrii^tion of 523 

Lyon, Marcus W., jr., collection of vertebrates of Venezuela made by 17, 69 

trip of, to Venezuela 34 

McCormick, L. M., bats presented by 35 

collecting outfit furnished to 70 

McDonough, P. , bats presented by 35 

McGuire, Joseph D., investigations in divisions of ethnology and somatology 

made 1 jy 29 

title of paper 139 

McPherson, Gen. J. B., sword used by 23 

Made, de.scription of 489 



I 



INDEX. 721 

Page. 

Macrura, report on, completed 40 

Majinetite, <le!<('ription of 515 

Maguey or American aloe, Uf^e of a^^ food by California Indians 187 

Maine, 1 )arbed harpoon heads found in 234 

Makah Indians of North America 227 

devices for catching salmon 230 

Malachite, description of 490 

mystical properties of 578 

Mammal collections of Department of Agriculture 31, 33 

hall of National Museum 16 

Mammals, division of, exhibition series of 31 

publications of .• 41 

European, purchase of specimens of 36 

Mann, All)ert, examinations of deep-sea deposits by 42, 43 

Marble, description of 493 

Marca.site, description of 520 

Marine invertebrates, division of, sea urchin collection of 38 

workers engaged upon collections of 42 

Marlatt, C. L. , title of joint paper by 138 

Marsh collection of fossil vertebrates, accession of 15, 46 

transfer of, from New Haven 38 

Marsh, Millard Caleb, title of joint paper l)y 137, 139 

Marsh, O. C. , service of as vertebrate paleontologist 52 

transfer of vertebrate collections of 53 

Marsupial mole, notoryctes, skeleton of 35 

Marx, George, spider collection of added to National Museum 15, 35 

Mason, Mrs. L. 0., loan by 24 

Mason, Otis Tufton, on Aboriginal American Harpoons; a study in ethnic dis- 
tribution and invention 189 

report on installation, work, by 26 

titles (jf papers liy 139 

Matthews, Washington, collection of Hopi Indian ceremonial pigments made 

for 465 

pigments gathered among Navajo Indians ])y 465 

series of Hopi ceremonial paints in national collection 

through liberality of 465 

Maxou, William K., appointed aid in division of {)lants 59 

temporary appointment of as aid 44 

titles of papers by 139, 140 

Maynard, George C, electrical studies of 29 

title of paper by 140 

Mead, pAigene, ethnological jKirchase from 24 

Meadow larks, loan of collection of 43 

Mealing outfit at Todd's Valley, California, description of 169 

Mearns, E. A., collecting outfit furnished to 70 

collection of reptiles presented by 36, 69 

Mechanical technology, division of, report on 26 

researches made by curator of 29 

Medicine, division of, installation work of 26, 27 

Mediterranean Sea, fishes of 36 

Mercer's cave, California, burial })it at 172 

human remains obtained from 171 



722 INDEX. 

Pase. 
Mercer's cave, California, sl^nll obtained from, resembles Calaveras skull of 

Whitney 171 

visit to 171 

Merriam, C. Hart, accompanied the Harriman Alaskan Expedition 17, 69 

Merrill, George P. , head curator of dei)artinent of geology 78 

report of 45 

researches of 51 

titles of papers by . .' - 140 

Mesozoic fossils, collection of 46 

Meteorite collection 15, 50 

in the U. S. National Museum, to January 1, 1902, Descrip- 
tive Catalogue of, by Wirt Tassin 671 

Meteorites in IT. S. National Museum, combined collections of 673 

Mexican hymenoptera, s])ecimens of, jmrchased ! 37 

tlacochtli or dart, description of 220 

Michigan, barbed harjioon heads foun<l in 234 

Microcline, description of 515 

Mierolite, description of - 515 

Miller, Gerrit S. , jr. , publication by 72 

report on mammals by 41 

titles of papers by - . 140, 141 

work of, in division of mammals 41 

Milling process at Nevada City, California 165 

Mineralogy, division of, accessions to 46 

collections in 50 

duplicate collection in 56 

meteorite collection of - 46 

Minerals, gem, cleavage , 486 

color of 481 

definition and properties of 481 

diaphaneity of 482 

dispersion of light 484 

electricity - 486 

form. . . ." . 487 

fracture 486 

hardness of 484 

luster of 482 

phosphorescence 484 

pleochroism 484 

polarization of light 484 

refraction of light 482 

specific gravity 485 

used as gems, description of 487 

Mines of Placer County, California, history of 167 

Ming dynasty, history of ceramic art in China during 330 

Miocene rhinoceros, study of 52 

Mocha stone, description of 524 

Mohr, Charles, herbarium iiresente<i by 37 

Mollusk collection 36 

Mollusks, division of, report of honorary curator of 38 

exhibition series of 33 

Moonstone, description of - . 488, 519 

mystical properties of 578 



INDEX. 728 

Page. 

Moore, H. F., ethnological colU'dions by 23,69 

Moore, J. Percy, specimens of leeches forwarded to 43, 66 

Morion , description of 524 

Mortar and jtestle used in California, along coast 162 

^lortensen, Th., title of joint paper ])y 139 

]\Iuseo Civico, fish collection ol)tained from 36 

Museu Paulista, specimens of fossil brachiopods received from 64 

Museum building, number of visitors during past year to 16 

custody of various collections given to 10 

objects of - 7 

of Natural History, Milan, Italy, collections received from 64 

Paris, France, collections received from 64 

record books, number of specimens in 1876, on 9 

1884, on 9 

1900, on 9 

staff - 59, 77 

absence of, from AVashington during year 17 

papers by members of, printed in publications other than those 

of museum 72 

Musical instruments, composite types - 436 

of the flute type 426 

resonator type 428 

the influence of the hand on 433 

intervals, table for comjiuting '. 442 

Scales, Contrilnitions to the History of, by Charles Kasson Wead 417 

development of 421 

instrumental, origin of 421 

Myriapoda, specimens of - 37 

Nacum Indians of North America, harpoons of 223 

Naiades, completion of revision of 40 

donation of - 36 

Nal-tunne-tunne Indians, Oregon, harpoon of 224 

Names of gems, index of 544 

Nanfeng-yao porcelain, description of 330 

Narbel, Paul, collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Natal Botanic Gardens, collections of plants received from 64 

National Institute, society of 5 

Museum, U. S., accessions to 15 

administrative staff of 78 

anthropological accessions 15 

approi)riations for, during year ending .Time 30, 1900. 59 

as a museum of record 8 

research 9 

an educational museum 10 

bat (tol lection added to 15 

bibliography of, for year ending June 30, 1900 129 

bird collections added to 15 

buildings of 61 

changes in exhibition series in 16 

scientific staff of 59 

collecting outfits furnislied l)y 70 

combined c(jilections of meteorites in 673 

contribution of William L. Abbott to 15 



724 INDEX. 

Page. 
National Museum, U. S., cooperation of the Executive Departments of Gov- 
ernment with 67 

custody of various collections given to 10 

distribution by 63 

of specimens of, during year ending June 

30, 1900, list of 119 

educational feature of It, 14 

exchanges by 63 

expenditures of 60 

explorations by members of staff of 68 

expositions 11, 74 

fish collection added to 15 

general considerations of 3 

Harriman Alaskan Expedition, collections added to. . 15 

herbarium additions to 15 

history of 7 

Hopi, objects in 466 

important accessions and work of the year of 15 

Indian basketry, collection of 16 

information furnishetl by 71 

installation of exhibition series in 11 

library of 72 

list of accessions for year ending June 30, 1900 79 

Mannnal Hall of -,. 16 

Marsh collection of fossil vertebrates in 15 

meteorite collection of 15 

necrology 74 

need of new building for 14 

number of visitors during past year to 16 

objects of 7 

osteology 73 

overcrowding of buildings of 12 

paleobotany field of 15 

papers by officers of, leased upon Museum material.. 130 

photography of 73 

pressing needs of 12 

private expeditions of l)enetit to 70 

publications of 12, 71, 129 

report upon, by Assistant Secretary of Smithsonian 

Institution 3 

researches by members of 65 

scientific staff of 77 

Shepard collection of minerals in 15 

sources of collections of 8 

spider collection of Dr. George Marx added to 15 

staff of 77 

table classifying publications of, in accordance with 

subjects treated 72 

of accessions received annually since 1880 62 

sectional libraries of 73 

showing appropriations and expenditures for 
year ending June 

30,1900....-.-..-. 60 



INDEX. 725 

Page. 
National Museum, U. S., table sliowinjj appnipriations for year endinir Jniu' 

30, 1901 (50 

(ii.shurHeinent.s from miexpended l)al- 
ances of appropriations for year 

ending June oO, 1899 60 

number of accessions received . in 

1899-1900 61 

specimens sent to eacli 
State and foreign 

country by 63 

visitors to, during year 

1899-1900 64 

visitors to, since 1881 ... 65 
total number of specimens in several 

divisions on June 30, 1900 61 

taxidermy 73 

title of 4 

valuable collections added to 15 

work of scientific staff of 10 

Zoological Park, skeletons obtained from 36 

Natrolite, description of 516 

Natural l)ridges of California 171 

Navajo Indians, ceremonial sand painting of 467 

Navy Department, cooperation of, with National Museum 67 

Neah Harbor Indians of North America, harpoons of 226 

Nectomys garleppi, co-types of 63 

Needham, James G. , title of paper by 72, 141 

Nelson, E. W. , crustaceans ol)tained by 69 

title of paper by 141 

Neomeris, purchase of skeleton of 36 

Nephrite, description of 513 

Net making by ^lallayhon Indians of California 186 

Nevada City, California 165 

New Mexico Agricultural College, insects received from 37 

New Ting-yao porcelain, description of 330 

New York Lower Helderberg fossils, collection of 46 

New Zealand, distribution of specimens in 127 

tishes 36 

Nichols, John M. , researches of 56, 67 

Nien-yao porcelain, description of 342 

Nigrine, description of 526 

Noctuida? 37 

North America, distribution of specimens in 119 

North American barbed harpoon heads dug up at junction of Thompson and 

Fraser rivers 231 

Braconidit', monograph of 41 

crabs, keys made to 40 

harpoons 219 

Barclay Sound type 231 

British Columbia type 231 

California type 223 

Canadian type 232 

Chilkotin type 232 



726 INDEX. 

Page. 

North American hariiooiiH, Cook Inlet typo 232 

float of 227 

Florida type 233 

Haida type 232 

Humboldt Bay type 223 

Hupa type 223 

Makah type, from Washington State 227 

Mexican type 220 

Nacuni type 223 

Neali Harbor type 226 

New York types 235 

Nova Scotia type 236 

Nutka type 230 

Oregon type 224 

Pueblo type 221 

Quinaielt type 226 

Seminole Indian type 234 

Thompson River type 233 

Twana type 226 

types of Great Lakes 235 

types of Nicaragua and Honduras 220 

Wakashan type 230 

Walla Walla type 225 

Wintun type 222 

Isopocla, key prepared to 41 

Norway, distribution of specimens in 127 

Nutka Indians of North America, harpoons of 230 

Nye, Willard, jr., investigations in prehistoric archjeology made by 29 

title of pajjer l)y 141 

Oberholser, Harry C. , collections of birds determined by 44 

titles of papers by 141, 142 

Obsidian, description of 516 

Oceanica, distribution of specimens in 127 

Octahedrite, description of 517 

Odontolite, descrijition of 517 

Officers of National Museum, papers by 130 

Oldroyd, Mrs. T. S., shells received from 36 

Oligoclase, description of 517 

Oligonoporus nobilis, specimen of 46 

Olivine, description of 516 

Onyx, description of 524 

mystical properties of 578 

Opal, agate, description of 518 

cacholong, description of 518 

description of - 517 

fire, description of 518 

girasol, description of 518 

harlecpiin, description of 518 

hyalite, description of 518 

hydrophane, description of 518 

jasp, description of 518 

lechosos, description of 518 

moss, description of 518 



J 



INDEX. 727 

Page. 

Opal, Miiller's glass, description of 518 

mystical properties of 579 

precious, description of 518 

tabasheer, description of 518 

wood, description of 518 

Operations of the year, summary of 59 

Urd, James T., loan by 24 

Ordovician fossils, specimens of 46 

Oregon tribes, fishing devices of 224 

Origin of California aborigines 163 

Ortalida\ loan of specimens of 43 

Orthoclase, description of 518 

Orthoptera 39 

Osteological collections, condition of 38 

exhibit 33 

work, amount of 73 

Otis, Isaac, ethnological purchase from 24 

Packages received by registrar of ^Museum, number of 63 

sent out by Museum, number of 63 

Painted Desert 466 

Rocks, California, visit to 178 

Palannonetes, loan of collection of 43 

Paleobotany, section of, accessions to 15, 46 

form of label adopted by 48 

progress in installation in 47 

Palmer, Joseph, work of 25 

Palmer, William, detail of, to visit Cuba and Porto Rico 17, 44, 73 

title of paper by 142 

zoological and botanical collections made by 35, 68 

Pan-American Exposition, bats obtained by collectors for 35 

Papers by officers of National INIuseum and others, based upon Museum mate- 
rial 130 

published in separate form from Bulletin 39 152 

Report for 1897 151 

volume 22, Proceedfngs of V. S. Na- 
tional Museum 151 

Parasitic hymenoptera, report on 41 

Paris Exposition, 1900, exhibits sent to 74 

Parritt, H. W. , collections received from 64 

Patton, W. H., investigations in divisions of ethnology and somatology, 

made by 29 

I'eabody Museum, Hopi objects in 466 

Pearl, description of 492 

mystical properties of 579 

Pegmatite, description of 519 

Pennsylvania, T7niversity of, games loane<l to museum of 29 

Peoples in California, origin of 162 

Pergande, Theo. , title of paper by 142 

Peridot, description of 516 

Peristerite, description of 488 

Personnel of departmeut of biology 44 

Perthite, description of 519 

Peruvian and Chilean harpoons, rudeness of 216 

NAT 31US I'M) 4l> 



728 INDEX. 

Page. 

Peruvian type of South American barbed harpoon 214, 215 

Phenacite, description of 519 

Philadelphia, Centennial Exhibition at, in 1876 4 

Physical characters of California aborigines, uniformity in 162 

Piercing devices of aborigines of Western Hemisphere 197 

Pipe etone, description of 495 

Pishudak from Chernoborn Island, Alaska 298 

Placer County, California, anthropology of 166 

Plants, division of, extension of laboratory of 33 

statement by honorary curator of 39 

exhibits of 33 

Plasma, description of 524 

Pleonast, description of - 528 

Pollard, Charles Louis, investigations of North American violets continued by. 42 

titles of papers by 142 

Pomo Indians of Ukiah, California, description of 174 

Reservation, Mendocino County, California 174 

Porcelain baking, process of 362 

Chinese and European systems of manufacture compared 357 

catalogue of Hippisley collection of 367 

Chang-yao, manufacture of 326 

Chichow-yao, description of 328 

Chien-yao, description of 329 

Chiin-yao, manufacture of 327 

commercial route followed 352 

composition of 358 

decorating, methods of - 363 

earliest extant dates from Sung dynasty 319 

eggshell, catalogue of Hippisley collection of 404 

summary of collection of 366 

variety 334 

glaze, composition of 361 

history of, from 1723 to 1796 342 

1796 to 1820 349 

1821 to 1850 350 

1850 to 1888 350 

Ho-yao, description of 330 

Hsiao-yao, description of 328 

Hsiuchow-yao, description of 329 

Hsiianchow-yao, description of 330 

Hut'ien-yao, description of 330 

introduction of colored decoration for 320 

into Europe ^ 350 

Juchou, manufacture of 321 

Ju-yao, manufacture of 321 

kind carried westward 354 

Ko-yao, manufacture of 326 

Kuan-yao, manufacture of 323 

Linch 'uan-yao, description of 330 

Lishui-yao, description of 329 

Lungch 'iian, manufacture of 325 

Nanfeng-yao, description of 330 

New Ting-yao, description of 330 



INDEX. 729 

Page. 

Porcelain, Chinese nien-yao, description of 342 

origin of term 316 

paste, process of shaping 360 

snuff bottles, catalogue of Hippisley collection of 411 

Ssuchow-yao, description of 329 

summary of collection of 366 

T'ang-yi-yao, description of 329 

Tengchow-yao, description of 329 

Ting-yao, manufacture of 324 

Tung-ch'ing-yao, manufacture of 328 

Wuni-yao, description of 329 

Yaochow-yao, description of 329 

Yiihang-yao, description of 329 

Porphyry, description of 519 

Porpoise, purchase of skeleton of 36 

Pottery making, process of, by Agua Caliente Indians of California 186 

Potto, purchase of skeleton of 36 

Powell, J. W., anthropological researches by 68 

collections by 28 

pigments secured from Hopi Indians by 465 

Prase, description of 524 

mystical properties of 580 

Prehistoric archjeology, collections in 29 

curator of, progress made by 28 

division of, report on 26 

Prehnite, description of 520 

Present dynasty, history of ceramic art in China during 341 

Printing Exposition, New York, exhibits sent to 74 

Proceedings of U. S. National Museum, Volume XXI of, when issued 71 

Volume XXI published 129 

Volume XXII, papers published in 

separate form from 151 

Properties of gem minerals 481 

Public Museum at New Zealand, specimens received from 64 

Wanganui, fishes obtained from 36 

Publications of the Museum 71, 129 

Pueblo type of North American harpoons 221 

Putnam, F. W. , request of, in regard to loan 29 

Pyramidellidfe of Pacific coast, revision of 40 

Pyrite, description of 520 

Quartermaster's Department of the Army, courtesies of 68 

Quartz, asteriated, description of 523 

aventurine, description of 523 

cat's-eye, description of 624 

citrine, description of 524 

crocidolite, description of 525 

description of 521 

ferruginous, descrijjtion of 524 

milky, description of 524 

mystical properties of 580 

rose, description of 525 

sagenitic, description of 525 

smoky, description of 524 



730 INDEX. 

Page. 

Quartz, star, description of 523 

Quesada, E., investigations in divisions of ethnology and somatology made by. 29 

Quinaielt salmon harpoon, description of 226 

Kathbun, Miss Mary J., report on decapod Crustacea of West Africa, com- 
pleted by 40 

macrura, comjileted by 40 

study of fresh-water crabs by 41 

titles of i>apers by 142, 143 

Rath bun, Richard, Assistant Secretary Smithsonian Institution 77 

report of 3 

report of, regarding scientific work of divison of marine 

invertebrates 40 

Red Sea, fishes of 36 

Reed, Howard S., collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Reed, Walter D., shells received in exchange from 36 

Rehcs found at Dardanelles mine, California 167 

Religions, division of, illustrated catalogue made by curator of 28 

investigations in 29 

Report for 1897, papers published in separate form from 151 

of Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution 3 

on department of anthropology, by head curator 21 

biology, by head curator 31 

geology, by head curator 45 

Reptile exhibition of National Museum 16 

Researches and publications of department of biology 40 

of department of anthropology 28 

Resonator type, musical instruments of the , 428 

Rhodonite, description of 526 

Rhynchota, arrangement and identification of 39 

loan of collection of 43 

Richardson, Miss Harriet, researches of 66 

titles of papers by 143 

work of '. 40, 41, 42 

Richmond, Charles W., absence of, in Cuba and Porto Rico 17, 38, 44 

paper on birds begun l)y 40 

titles of papers by 143 

zoological and botanical collections made ]iy 35, 68 

Ridgway, Robert, accompanied the Harriman Alaskan Expedition 17, 69 

bird collection by 35 

monograph on the Birds of North and Middle America, 

by 16, 38, 40 

titles of papers by 143, 144 

Riley, J. H., visited Cuba and Porto Rico, in interest of Pan-American Exjw- 

sition 17,44 

zoological and botanical collections made by 35, 68 

Robb, M. L., collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Robinson, Wirt, trip of, to Venezuela 34 

Rock crystal, description of 524 

Rocky Mountain fossils, specimens of 46 

Rose, J. N., botanical expedition of, to Mexico 28, 34, 37, 68 

col lection of Mexican plants made by 17 

l)lants collected by, in Mexico, deterinined 41 

publications of 41 



INDEX. 731 

Pcge. 

Rose, J. X., titles of papers by 144 

Rotifers, illustrations of oo 

Rowe, R. B. , researches of 56, 67 

Royal Zoological IMuseum, Dresden, Germany, specimens sent U> 64 

Rnbicelle, description of 528 

Rubies, spinel, description of 528 

Ruby, anc< ma, description of 524 

l)alas, description of 528 

description of 497 

Mount Blanc, description of 524 

mystical properties of 582 

Ruscherveyh, G. , lepidojitera si)eciniens sent to 64 

Russell, C. H., accessions in anthnipology through 23 

Russia, distribution of specimens in 127 

Rutile, description of 526 

Saddle blankets, process of making, by Agua Caliente Indians of California . . 186 

Saldidse, loan of collection of 43 

Salishan branch of Xorth American Indians, location of 231 

Salmon, process of harpooning 224 

Samarskite, description of 526 

Samoyed harpoon 300 

Sandstone used for making mortars and pestles by Indians of California 185 

Santa Barbara County, California, rich archpeologically 181 

Santa Catalina Island, California, description of 184 

Saphir d'eau, description of 512 

Sapphire, description of 497 

mystical properties of 583 

Sapphirine, description of 525, 528 

Sard, description of 526 

mystical properties of 584 

Sardonyx, nlystical projierties of 585 

Satin spar, description of 512 

Scale, definition of 423 

Scapolite, description of 526 

Schantz, AV. A., collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Schellwein, Dr. E., collections lent to 56, 67 

Schorl, description of 533 

Schuchert, Charles, detail of, on exploring trip through Wyoming 55 

fossils collected by 17,46, 47, 69 

portion of lepidosteus atrox given by 46 

researches of 52 

title of joint paper by 134 

titles of papers by 1-14 

Schwarz, E. A. , additions to collection made by * 37 

work of 39 

Scidmore, Miss E. R. , loan Vjy 24, 27 

Scientific staff "7 

of Museum, changes in 59 

Scudder, Samuel H., entomological specimens supplie<l to 66 

Sea-otter dart from Unalaska ". 299 

harpoon dart from Chernoborn Island, Alaska 298 

T'gashik, Alaska 295 

Pishudak, from Bristol Bay, Alaska 293 



732 INDEX. 

Page. 

Sea-otter spear from Ugashik, Bristol Bay, Alaska 294 

Sea shells, use of, by California aborigines as personal ornaments 163 

Seal harpoon from Point Barrow, Alaska 279 

west Greenland 241 

harpooning, process of 268 

lance of P'skimo, from Cumberland Sound 264 

Sealing harpoon from Point Barrow, Alaska 276 

Sealskin floats or pokes of Alaskan Eskimo, process of making 269 

Selenite, description of 511 

Sellards, E. H., researches of 56, 67 

Seminole Indians of the Everglades, fishing devices of 234 

Seri Indians harpooning turtle, account of 221 

of North America, turtle harpoon of 220 

Serpentine, description of 527 

Shell ornaments found near Springfield, California 171 

Shells 36 

Shepard, Charles U., jr., meteorite collection deposited ])y 52 

mineral collection deposited by 46, 52 

Shepard collection of minerals 15 

Shindler, A. Zeno, reference to death of 21 , 75 

Shoshone and Ute crania, collection of 29 

Siatko of Eskimo harpoon, description of 259 

Siderite, description of 525 

Sierra Nevada valleys of California 166 

Silurian fossils, specimens of 46 

Simpson, Charles Torrey, coni])letion of revision of river mussels by 40 

titles of papers by 1 44 

Sketch of the History of Ceramic Art in China, with a Catalogue of the Hip- 

pisley Collection of Chinese Porcelains, A, by Alfred E. Hippisley 305 

Sloth, skeleton of, found in Mercer's cave, California 172 

Smillie, T. W. , photographer, report of \ 73 

Smith, Franklin W., investigations in division of religions pursued by 29 

Smith, Hugh INI., title of joint paper by 144 

Smith, John B., noctuidse presented by 37 

specimens supplied to 66 

title of joint paper 1)y 131 

title of paper by 144 

Smithson, James, mineral collection of 5,6 

Suiithsonian Building, bird collection in 16 

number of visitors during jiast year t(^ 16 

reorganization of exhibition series of birds in 33 

table showing number of visitors to, during fiscal year 

1899-1900.".... 64 

since 1881 (V. 

Institution, act of Congress, 1846, to establish 3 

amount allotted to, by Congress for Pan-American 

Exi>osition 17 

donations by friends of, to National Museum 34 

explorations under auspices of 8 

historical deposit from 24 

l^lana for organization of 5 

transfer to, of government collei-tions 6 

Smithsonite, description of 527 



d 



INDEX. 783 

Page. 
Snares, kind u^ed l)y Indians of California for snaring quail, rabbits, and other 

small game ISO 

use of, for capturing pigeons, by Indians of California 179 

Snuff bottles, Chinese porcelain, miscellaneous collection ol 411 

Soapstone quarries at Potts Valley, California 1 83 

use of, in California Ifi4 

Socoloff, T>., invertebrate fossils received fnnn (U 

Sodalite, description of 527 

• Soltau. Hugo, coleoptera collection presented by 37 

Somatology, division of 21 

investigations in 29 

South America, distribution of specimens in 125 

not favorable to harpoon 212 

South American harpoon arrow, type used by tribes of British (Guiana 218 

Venezuelan type 517 

harpoons 212 

Brazilian type 216 

Chilean type 214 

Fuegian type 213 

Peruvian type 214, 215 

type of British ( iuiana 218 

Venezuelan type 217 

lepidoptera, purchase of specimens of 37 

South Australian shells, specimens of 36 

Southeast range, change in 31 

Specimens, distribution of, during year ending June 30, 1900, list of 119 

in several divisions of ^luseum on June 30, 1900, table of 61 

sent to each State and foreign country, table showing numl)er of 

lots of 63 

Sphene, description of 530 

Spiders, purchase of !Marx collection of 35 

Spinel, description of 527 

mystical properties of 585 

rubies, description of 528 

Spinning, process of, by Agua Caliente Indians of California 186 

Spi )dumen((, description of 529 

Ssuchow-yao porcelain, descrijition of 329 

Staff of National Museum ■- 77 

Stanford University, expedition sent out by 41 

Stanton, Timothy W. , title of jiaper h\ 1 44 

Starks, Edwin Chapin, titles of i>apers by 145 

State Department, cooperation of, with National ?kluseuiii 67 

Staurolite, description of 530 

mystical properties of 585 

Stearns, Roljert E. C, titles of papers by 145 

Steatite found at Potts Valley, California 183 

Stegosaur, study of 52 

Steiger, George, titles of joint jiapers by 134 

Stein, Robert, collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Steiner, Roland, loan by 24 

Stejneger, Leonhard, c(jllections made by, for Pan-American Exposition. 17, 35, 44, 68 

titles of i>apers by 146 

treaties of, on rejitilcs of Japan 41 



734 INDEX. 

Page. 
Stejneger, Leonhanl, work of, on monograph of reptiles ami batrachians of 

Porto Rico 41 

Miss Thora, collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Stephen, A. M. , beliefs of Hopi Indians set forth by 467 

collection of Hopi Indian ceremonial pigments made Vjy 465 

Stillwell, Frank, specimens purchased from 46 

Stockton district, California 176 

Stomatopoda 40 

Stone art of California aborigines 162 

implements at Yankee Jim, California 168 

collection of, from Nevada City, California 165 

found near Springfield, California 171 

of California, used in acorn grinding 172 

shaping by pecking with hammers known to Tulare Indians of Cali- 
fornia 1 79 

vessel making in California 163 

Stone, Witmer, lemming collections loaned to 43, 66 

title of paper by. 146 

Strecker, Herman, specimens supplied to 66 

Stringed musical instruments 424 

European mandolin 424 

Greek guitar 424 

Sturgeon, method of taking, by North American Indians 235 

spear of Iroquois Indians of North America 235 

Sturnella, revision of genus 43 

Stylonurus, model of, received 46 

Succinite, description of 488 

Sui dynasty, history of ceramic art in China during 312 

Summary of the operations of the year 59 

Summers, H. E., insect collection loaned to 43, 66 

Sun^ dynasty, earliest porcelain extant dates from 319 

history of ceramic art in China during 320 

less celebrated varieties of Chinese porcelain produced during . 328 

Sunstone, description of 517, 519 

mystical properties of 585 

Sweden, distriVjution of specimens in 127 

Switzerland, distribution of specimens in 127 

Swords, Gen. Thmnas, personal relics of 24 

Tanbour of Bagdad, description of 425 

T 'ang dynasty, history of ceramic art in China during 313 

period in which it is claimed true porcelain was first made. . . 311 

T 'ang-yi-yao porcelain, description of 329 

Tarbell, F. B., investigations in prehistoric archaeology made by 29 

Tassin, Wirt, determinations of Hopi ceremonial paints made by 465 

on Descriptive Catalogue of the Collections of Gems in the U. S. 

National Museum 473 

Descriptive Catalogue of the Meteorite Collection in the U. S. 

National 3Iuseum, to January 1, 1902 671 

researches of 51 

titles of papers by 1 146 

Taxidermic work 73 

Taylor, Charles B. , collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Taylor, George W. , presentation by 37 



INDEX. 735 

Page. 

Technology, division of, installation work of 26 

jilans for a 48 

Tellinida?, revision of group of 40 

Tengchow-yao porcelain, description of 329 

Texas Jurassic fossils, collection of 46 

Thompson River type of Xorth American harpoons 233 

Thomsonite, description of 530 

Throwing sticks of Xorth American Indians 234 

Thulite, description of 508 

Tiger's-eye, description of 499 

Ting-yao pocelain, manufacture of 324 

Tipulida^, loan of specimens of 43 

Titanite, description of 530 

Titanotherium, skulls of ■ 47 

study of . .L , . 52 

Tlacochtli or dart of ^Mexico, description of 220 

Toad's-eye tin, description of 494 

Toggle and barbed harpoon head from western Greenland 245 

harpoon, barb or spur of 202 

blade 201 

blade line of 203 

blade slit or kerf of 201 

body of 201 

butt of 202 

floats of 206 

for seals, from Cumberland Sound region 261 

foreshaft of 204 

forms of butt end of shaft 205 

from Bristol Bay, Alaska, head of 296 

Chalitmut 288 

Greenland ' 240 

Kusilvak, Alaska 295 

ice pick of 205 

leader or sling of 203 

line 205 

line grooves of 202 

line hole of 202 

line rack of 206 

loose shaft of 203 

parts of 201, 207 

shaft of 204 

from south Greenland 247 

shaft socket of 202 

head harpoon, from Alaska 274 

Amur River 302 

Cape Xome, Ala.<ka 290 

Cumberland Sound 263 

Diomede Island, Alaska 272 

Greenland 245, 247, 248, 251, 252, 253, 254, 255 

Kotzebue Sound 272 

north of Bristol Bay 289 

Norton Sound 284 

Point Barrow, Alaska 273, 274, 279 



736 INDEX. 

Page. 

Toggle-head harpoon, from Port Clarence, Alaska 291 

Repulf^e Bay 261 

Sle.lge Island, Alaska 290, 302 

Upernavik, Greenland 257 

Topaz, description of 530 

false, description of 524 

mystical properties of 5S5 

Saxon, description of 524 

Scotch, description of 524 

Sjmnish, description of 524 

Touchstone, description of 523 

Tourmaline, description of 532 

Townsend, C. H., ethnological collections by 23, 28, 69 

collection of fossils 46 

Transportation, section of, models belonging to 29 

Trelease, William, specimens of plants lent to 67 

True, Frederick W., administration of Museum under charge of 59 

designated as representative of Smithsonian Institution. 74 

executive curator 77 

head curator of department of biology 77 

report of 31 

Avhale investigations of 17, 34, 42, 68 

Tucheband, Adolph, collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Tulare Indians of California expert basket makers 1 SO 

visit to 1 7S 

North America deficient in harpoon making 222 

Reservation, Tulare County, California 1 7S 

women of North America excel in basket making 222 

Tung-ch'ing-yao porcelain, manufacture of 328 

Turkis, description of 534 

Turquoise, description of 534 

mystical properties of 58(5 

Turtle harpoon arrow of Brazil 216 

of Seri Indians of North America, description of 220 

Twana Indians of North America, fishing devices of 226 

harjwons of 226 

Twitchell, M. W., researches of 56 

Ukiah, California, visit to 174 

Ulva Indians of North America, harpooning by 220 

Umbelliferae of the United States 41 

Umiak or freight boat of Alaskan Eskimo -H9, 270 

Underwood, L. M., specimens of plants lent to 67 

Union Pacific Railroad Company, invitation extended by 55 

United States Commissioner-General, electrical models turned over to 66 

distribution of specimens in 119 

Fish Commission, corals and crustaceans received from 37 

operations of 33 

Navy Department, historical deposit from 24 

Upper Shingu tribes of South America, hunting by 216 

Utahite, description of 535 

Utensils of Stockton District, California 177 

wood and stone of California 163 

Variolite, description of 519 



J 



INDEX. 737 

Page. 

Variolite, mystical properties of 587 

Variscite, description of 535 

Vaughaii, T. W. , researches of (36 

titles of papers by 1 46 

work of, on American corals 46 

West Indian corals 42 

Venezuelan Indians, harpoon arrow of 217 

Verde antique, description of 527 

Verner, S. P. , ethnological purchase from 23 

Verrill, A. E., titles of papers by 146 

Vertebrate fossils, section of, accessions to 46 

paleontology, section of, arrangement of specimens in 50 

form of label adopted by 49 

progress in installation in 47 

remains, mode of procedure in collecting 55 

Vesuvianite, description of 536 

Volvocidpe 37 

Vulpinite, description of 489 

Wakashan Indians of North America, harpoons of 230 

Walcott, Charles D., letter from, regarding transfer of Marsh collection of 

vertelirates 53 

title of paper by '. 146 

Walcott, Mrs. Henrietta D. , shells presented by 36 

Walla Walla, harpooning at 225 

Walrus harpoon from Bristol Bay, Alaska, bone foreshaft of 303 

Point Barrow, Alaska 274 

toggle head of harpoon from Diomede Island 272 

Wanli period, history of ceramic art in China during 340 

War Department, cooperation of, with National Museum 67 

Ward, H. A., private meteorite collections of 50 

Ward, Lester F., fossils collected by 17, 47, 69 

titles of papers by 147 

Water sapphire, description of 512 

mystical properties of 587 

Watkins, J. E., report on installation works by 26 

Wead, Charles Kasson, on Contributions to the History of Musical Scales 417 

Weather Bureau, collections V)y ol)servers of 34 

Wei dynasty, history of ceramic art in China during 311 

Wernerite, description of 526 

West Greenland harpoons 238 

Indian corals, work on 42 

Whale fishing of Arctic Alaska, time carried on 269 

harpoon from Hudson Bay 262 

toggle head of, from Greenland 240 

harpooning in North America 227 

lance from CumV)erlaud Sound 263, 265 

Whaling harpoon from Bristol Bay, Alaska, b<jne foreshaft of 303 

White, David, titles of papers by 14/ 

Whited, Kirk, collection of plants received from 70 

plants collected l)y 38 

Willemite, description of ^3" 

Williamsite, description of ^27 



738 INDEX. 

Page. 

"Wilson, Sidney I., volunteer assistant in division of birds 44 

Wilson, Thomas, report on exhibition cases, by 26 

titles of papers by 147 

Wilsonite, description of 527 

Wintun Indians of North America, harpoons of 222 

Wood, D. W., sword presented by 23 

Wood tin, description of 494 

Woods, W. L., gift of 46 

Woodward, A. S., types of fossil fishes examined by 56, 67 

Woodworth, W. McM., title of paper by 147 

Worcester, Dean C. , collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Worms, transfer of collection of 38 

Wright, B. H., river mussels donated by 36 

Wuni-yao porcelain, description of 329 

Yankee Jim, California 166 

mine, California, visit to 168 

Yaochow-yao porcelain, description of 329 

Yokut Indians of North America, process of harpooning of 221 

Young, Robert T., collecting outfit furnished to 70 

Young, Mrs. S. H. , accession in anthropology through 23 

Yuan dynasty, history of ceramic art in China during 329 

Y'^iihang-yao porcelain, description of 329 

Yunglo period, history of ceramic art in China during 333 

Zeuglodon, study of 51 

Zircon, description of 536 

mystical properties of 587 

Zonochlorite, description of 520 

Zoological collections, purchase of important 34 

Museum, Turin, Italy, crab sj^ecimens sent to 64 

o 










SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 





3 9088 01421 6766 



W^ 







