•^m^ 



^ zz. tr> ". -z. </) * 

3 R ARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIiniliSNI NVINOSHlllMS SBIdVyai 
to ^ ^ ^ ■ ^ 5 .„ ^ 



inillSNI~'NVIN0SHimS^S3 I d Va a I1~'l| B R AR I ES^SMITHSONlAN~'lNSTITUTia 





JRAR I ES 



XI IJl I J.O I 



>.'\. 




m 
c/) ::= CO 

iiMSTlTUTlON NOIiniliSNI NVINOSHll^NS SBIMVaai 

en Z Cfl 




o ri_Li r * o 






> :5 

n LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN iNSTlTUTid 




' o x,.:__^ .. o 

2 ^ 2 

N NOIiniliSNI NVINOSHllk^JS S3 1 « VMS 



.,#; 



S^x 



,v^' 



, < 



.^ 



CD 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTK 



^ 





N NOIiniliSNI NVINOSHlll'JS S3idvaa 

V) — t/) 



% 



o 



ilinillSNI NVIN 



BR ARIES SMITHSn 



RARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTK 



o 



joiiniiiSNi NViNOSHims saiyvaa 



v\^^^^' 5 




</5 






kRIES'SMITHSONlAN INSTITUTION NOIiniliSNI NIVINOSHli^NS S3iyvyan 

DC 

< 

LliSNl'^NIVINOSHllWS^Sa iavyan~'LIBRARI ES^SMITHSONIAN"lNSTiTUTION 
_ i_ _ ^- 

□0 

> 

ui ± if> £ w 

iRlES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOUniliSNI NVINOSHilWS SaiUVyail 
w -z: , w z '^ ^ 

LiiSNi NviN0SHiiws'^S3iyvyan libraries'^smithsonian institution 

^RIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIiniIiSNI~'NVINOSHimS S3liJViiar 




t/) 




illSNI NVINOSHimS S3iaVHan~LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTIOf 

Z ^ Z V- (" 2 >v' 




ftRIEs'^SMITHSONlAN INSTITUTION NOIiniUSNI NVlNOSHilWS S3IHVMai 

t/> ^ ^,^ to — CO ^ ^ 

iliSNl"'NVIN0SHiIlAlS^S3 lyvyan^'llBRARI ES^SMITHSONlAN"|lNSTITUTIOf 








ARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIiniliSNI NVINOSHimS S3iavyai 
w z » c/' z ^ 



^illLl^^ 







< 

Z 




i%. 



ANNUAL REPORT 



BOARD OF REGENTS 



SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



Showing the Operations, Expenditures 

and Condition of the 

Institution 



FOR THE 



YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1904 




WASHINGTON 

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 
1905 



^ 



L E ^P T E R 



FltOM TIIK 



SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 



ACCOMPANYING 



The Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Institution for 
the year cndimj Jane SO^ lOOIf. 



Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington^ D. C, February ^7, 1005. 
To the Congress of the TJnited States: 

In accordance with section 5r)<)3 of the Kevised Statutes of the 
United States, I have the honor, in hehalf of the Board of Regents, to 
submit to Congress the Annual Keport of the operations, exj)endi- 
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year end- 
ing June 30, 1904. 

I Iiave the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

S. P. Langley, 
Seeretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Hon. William P. Frye, 

President pr'o tempore of the Senate. 

Ill 



ANNUAL REPOirr OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1904. 



SUBJECTS. 



1. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the sessions of Decem- 
ber 8, ]903, and Jannary 27 and March 7, 1904. 

2. RejDort of the executive conimittee, exhibiting the financial affairs 
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, and 
receipts and expenditures for the year ending June 30, 1004. 

3. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the opera- 
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June ^JO, 
1904, with statistics of exchanges, etc. 

4. General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous mem- 
oirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institu- 
tion, teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. 
These memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1904. 



C () N T V: 'N T R 



Page. 
Letter from the Secretary, suhinitting the Aniiunl Ri'ijort of the Regents 

to Congress - ill 

(leneral subjects of the Annual Report .- iv 

Contents of the Report -- - -. v 

List of Plates --- IX 

Members ex ufficio of the Establishment XllI 

Regents of the Smithsonian Institution xiv 

Proceedings of the Boakd of Regents. 

Meetings of December 8, 1903, January 27, and March 7. 1904 xv 

Report of the Executive Committee for the year ending June 30, 1904. 

Condition of the fund July 1 , 1904 xxxv 

Receipts and expenditures for the year -,, - xxxvi 

Appropriation for International Exchanges .". . xxxvil 

Details of expenditures of same .-_ xxxvil 

Appropriation for American Ethnology xxxviii 

Details of expenditures of same xxxix 

Appropriations for the National Museum XLi 

Details of expenditures of same XLI 

Appropriation for Astrophysical Observatory. _ -. LViii 

Details of expenditures of same .-. LViii 

Appropriation for observation of solar eclipse LX 

Balance of same . lx 

Appropriation for the National Zoological Park LX 

Details of expenditures of same lx 

Recapitulation i-xv 

General summary _ ,_ i.xvi 

Acts and Resolutions of Congress relative to Smithsonian Institution, 
etc -- LXix 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The Smithsonian Institution 1 

The Establishment , 1 

Organization of the Board of Regents 2 

Meetings of the Board of Regents 2 

General considerations 5 

The removal of the remains of James Smithson 7 

Biiiidings H 

Finances - H 

Research - 13 

Hodgkins fund - - 13 

Naples table lf> 

Explorations - - 16 

Publications - 16 

V 



VI CONTENTS. 

The Smithsonian Institution — Continued. Page. 

Library 20 

Correspondence 31 

International American Archteological Commission. 22 

International Congresses and Expositions 24 

Miscellaneoias 37 

National Museum 27 

Bxireau of American Ethnology . 30 

International Exchanges 31 

National Zoological Park 32 

Astrophysical Observatory 34 

Necrology 35 

Appendixes: 

I. Report on the United States National Museum 37 

II. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnolo;]^y 46 

III. Repoi't on the International Exchange Service .55 

IV. Report on the National Zoological Park _ 69 

V. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory. 78 

VI. Report of the Librarian 87 

VII. Report of the Editor 91 

VIII. Report of the Representative of the Smithsonian Institution and 
National Museum, Louisiana Purchase Exposition, St. Louis, 

Mo., 1904 100 



GENERAL APPENDIX. 

Page. 

Experiments with the Langley Aerodrome, l)y S. P. Langley 113 

The Relation of Wing Surface to Weight, l)y R. Von Lendenfeld 127 

The Rumford Spectroheliograph of the Yerkes Observatory, by George E. 

Hale and Ferdinand Ellerman 131 

The Construction of large Telescope Lenses, by Dr. C. Faulhaber ........ 163 

Some Reflections Suggested by the Application of Photography to Astro- 
nomical Research, by Prof. H. H. Turner 171 

Radiation in the Solar System, by J. H. Poynting 185 

Condensation Nuclei, by Prof. C. T. R. Wilson 193 

The Present Problems of Inorganic Chemistry, by Sir William Ramsay . . . 207 

The Evolution of the Scientific investigator, by Simon Newcomb 221 

Metals in the Atmosphere, by Prof. Alfred Ditte 235 

Observations on Vision in Brightness and in Obscurity, with a Hypothesis 

on the Cause of Color Blindness, by O. Lummer 249 

A Lightning Spiral observed near Basel, by Fr. Klingelfuss 259 

Variations of Specific Gravity, by Georg W. A. Kahlbaiam 261 

Some New Methods of Lighting, by A. Berthier 267 

The Progress in Wireless Telegraphy, by William Maver, jr 275 

Electric Welding Development, by Elihu Thomson _ 281 

The History of Some Discoveries in Photograpliy, by Robert Hunt 287 

Theories of Ore Depo.sitioii Historically Considered, by S. F. Emmons 309 

On Mountains and Mankind. l)y Douglas W. Freshfield 337 

Morocco, by Theol)ald Fischer 355 

The Work of the Reclamation Service, by F. H. Newell 373 

The Yuma Reclamation Project, by J. B. Lippincott 1 383 

The Evidence of Evolution, by Hugo De Vries 388 



CONTENTS. VII 

Paj-'p. 

The Evolutionary Significance of Species, by O. F. Cook 397 

Some Bird Life in British Papna, by R, A. Vivian 413 

Bird Sanctuaries in New Zealand _ 419 

The House Sparrow, by Dr. J. O. Skinner 423 

Some Tibetan Animals, by R, Lydekker 429 

The Multiple Origin of Horses and Ponies, by Dr. J. Cossar Ewart 437 

Egyptian and Arabian H( »rses, by E. Prisse d' Avenues 457 

Bees and Flowers, by Pr( )f . E. L. Bouvier 469 

The Pearl Fisheries of Ceylon, by Prof. W. A. Herdman 485 

Flying Fisli and their Habits, by Dr. Theod( ire Gill 495 

The Stature of Man at Different Epochs, by A. Dastre 517 

Old Age, by Elie Metchnikoff 533 

The Contributions of American Archeology to History, by W. H. Holmes . 551 

Gournia, by Harriet A. Boyd _ _ . 559 

Archaeological Researches on the Frontiers of Argentina and Bolivia, by 

Eric von Rosen 573 

A General View of the Archaeology of the Pueblo Region, by Edgar L. 

Hewett 583 

The Painting of Human Bones among the American Aborigines, by Dr. 

AlesHrdlicka 607 

Sling Contrivances for Projectile Weapons, by F. Krause : . . . 619 

Materials Used to Write upon before the Invention of Printing, by Prof. 

Albert Maire 639 

An Inquiry into the Population of China, by W. W. RockhilL 659 

Chinese Architecture, by S. W. Bushell 677 

Pewter and the Revival of its Use, by Arthur Lasenby Liberty 693 

Cameos, by Cyril Davenport 713 

The Economic Conciuest of Africa by the Railroads, by A. Fock 721 

The Present Aspects of the Panama Canal, by William H. Burr 737 

The Sanitation of the Isthmian Canal Zone, by W. C. Gorgas 745 

The Projected New Barge Canal, by Col. Thomas W. Symons 751 

Rapid Transit Subways in Metropolitan Cities, by Milo R. Maltbie 759 

Sir George Gabriel Stokes, by Ernest W. Brown 773 

Karl Alfred von Zittel. by Charles Schuchert. 779 

Karl Gegenbauer, by Oscar Hertwig .-. 787 



LIST OF PLATES. 



Skc^rktary's Report : Page. 
Platu I. Location of aiiinial (ii;;irters in the National /oolo,u;ical Park.. 70 
II. Plan of main floor of new house for animals. National Zoo- 
logical Park 70 

III. Bird cage at Louisiana Purchase Exposition 72 

IV. (rreat brown hear from Alaska. Leopard in National Zoo 

logical Park 73 

V. Ground jilan of the observatory inclosure 78 

VI. New form of bolometric apparatus 78 

VII. Terrestrial temperature and solar radiation, 1903 . S2 

VIII. Intensity of radiation along diameter of solar disk, September, 

nm 82 

IX. Smithsonian and National Museum St. Louis exhibit .... 100 

X. St. Louis exhiltit of National Museum 100 

XI. Central court, Smithsonian pavilion at St. Louis 104 

XII. Entrance to St. Louis exhibitoftheAstrophysical Observatory, 104 

XIII. St. Louis exhibit of the National Zoological Park . 106 

XIV. St. Louis exhibit of the Bureau of Exchanges 106 

Experiments with the Aerodrome (Langley): 

Plate I. Instantaneous photograph of the launch of October 7, lOO.'J _ _, 113 
The Rumford Spectroheliooraph (Hale and Ellerman): 

Plate I. The Rumford spectroheliograph attached to the 40-inch 

Yerkes refractor _ . _ . 146 

II. The curvature of lines in the spectroheliograph, fig. 2, H and 

K lines on the disk, etc ' 146 

III. Fig. 1, K line on the disk and at the limb : fig. 2, H and K lines 

in electric arc ; fig. 3, minute calcium flocculi (Hj) - - - _ 148 

IV. The sun, showing calcium flocculi 148 

V. Fig. 1, low level (Hj) section of calcium flocculi; fig. 2. high 

level (H2) section of same flocculi l.")0 

VI. General appearance of sun's disk at H^, level 150 

VII. Fig. 1 , Facula? ; fig. 2, calcium flocculi, low K, level ir)3 

VIII. Calcium flocculi, higher Kj level ; fig. 2, calcium flocculi, K.^ 

level 152 

IX. Hydrogen flocculi 154 

X. Fig. 1, hydrogen flocculi; fig. 2. calcium flocculi 154 

XI. Calcium flocculi, low H, level 156 

XII. Calcium flocculi. middle Hi level 156 

XIII. Calcium flocculi, H. level. 158 

XIV. Hydrogen flocculi 158 

XV. Calcium flocculi, low H, level... 160 

XVI. Calcium flocculi, middle Hi level 160 

XVII. Calcium flocculi, high H, level. 162 

XVIII. Calcium flocculi, H2 level 162 



X LIST OF PLATES. 

Condensation Nuclei (Wilson. Plates by Barus): Page. 

Plate I. Charts showing iiticleatioii from Oct. 3 to 28, 1903 206 

II. Charts showing nut-leation f n )ni Oct. 27 to Nov. 24 206 

III. Charts showing nucleation from Nov. 24 to Dec. 8 206 

IV. Cliarts showing nucleation from Dec. to Dec. 20 206 

V. Charts showing nucleation from Dec. 21, 1903, to Jan. 4, 1903, 206 

VI. Charts showing nucleation from Jan. 4 to 18, 190:5 206 

VII. Charts showing average number of nuclei per cubic centi- 
meter on successive days of the years 1902-3 and 1903—1 206 

VIII. Curves showing the average number of nuclei per cubic centi- 
meter in successive months of the years 1903-3 and 1903-4 . . 206 
A Lightning Spiral (Klingelfuss): 

Plate I. Fig. 1, photograph of lightning flash; fig. 2, photograph of 

induction coil spark 258 

II. Klingelfuss's Patent Inductorium 258 

New Methods of Lighting (Berthier): 

Plate I. A drawing-room wall and ceiling effect obtained with Moore 

tiibes 274 

Electric Welding (Thomson): 

Plate I. Fig. 1, an electric tire- welding machine: fig. 2, an electric 

welding machine for iron and steel pipe 282 

II. Another form of hoop or tire welding machine 282 

III. Fig. 1, rolls of electrically welded wire fences of varying 

width and mesh; fig. 2, an electric chain-welding machine.. 284 

IV. Electric rail welding on street railways 284 

V. A welding machine for large tubes or shells. 284 

Discoveries in Photography (Hunt): 

Plate I. Joseph Nicephore Niepce 290 

II. Permanent photograph by Niepce '. 290 

III. H. Fox Talbot .' 294 

IV. Talbotype of Pem broke College, Oxford 294 

V. L. J. M. Daguerre 298 

VI. Fig. I, Niepce's apparatus; fig. 3, Thomas Wedgewood 298 

VII. Fig. 1, Talbot's studio; fig. 3, Calotype ])rhiting apparatus _.^ 302 
Work of the Reclamation Service (Newell): 

Plate I. Canal line crossing on Dunlap Creek, Montana 374 

II. Typical scene in North Platte Canyon, Wyoming 374 

III. Shoshone Canyon, Wyoming 378 

IV. Looking up North Platte River, Wyoming 378 

V. Detailed view of Shoshone dam site, Wyoming. 378 

VI. Malheur dam site, Malheur River, Oregon 378 

VII. Looking up Cottonwood Creek, Oregon 382 

VIII. Pear orchard on Rockefeller ranch, Oregon 383 

The Yuma Pro.ject (Lipfincott): 

Plate I. Relief map of the Yuma project 384 

Multiple Origin of Horses and Ponies (Ewakt): 

Plate I. Fig. 1, Professor Ewart's yearling wild horse in summer coat; 

fig. 2, Celtic pony, showing tail lock in midwinter^ . 444 

II. Fig. 1, a typical Celtic pony in winter coat; fig. 3, a richly 

striped dark yellow-dun horse of the Norse type 444 

Ecjyptian and Arabian Horses (D'Avennes): 

Plate I. Egyptian horses; bas-relief at Thebes 458 

II. Egyptian horses; bas-relief at Karnak 458 

III. Zedan, a pure-blooded Arabian colt 463 

IV. Obeyran , an imp(jrted Arabian stalUon 463 



LIST OF PLATES, XI 

Page. 

Flying Fish (Gill): ^^^^ 

Plate I. Cypselnrns - '* 

II. Air hladdcrs - '^T: 

III. Dactyl( )i)terns volitans • ^ 

IV. Dactylopterns volitans— diflferent stages of growth 510 

GcKTUNiA (Boyd): ^ 

Plate I. Sketch plan of the central acropolis ' ;^ 

II. Objects excavated at ( U )urnia '_'^'* 

III. Clay bnirs head - 

Ahcileological Researches on the Fhontif.h of Akcjentina and Bo- 
livia (Von Rosen): 

Plate I. Fig. 1 , grave grotto ; fig. 2 , unearthed skeleton •y't 

II. Fig. 1, cacti; fig. 2, door of cactus wood 574 

III. Fig. 1 , loom of cactus wood; fig. 2, stone hut. 574 

IV. Fig. t , ancient irrigation terraces; fig. 2, walled-up grotto. . . . 574 
V. Fig. 1. barrow in mountain pass; fig. 2, small stone altars .... 578 

VI. Loess formations in the Tarija Valley '^ ' 8 

VII Fio- 1 Loess formation, showing fossil bones of Mastodon; 

fig. 2, modern Indian hut '^'^'^ 

VIII. Vessels and implements from Casabindo and Tarija 582 

IX. Wooden implements - - - '^' "^ 

X. Objects found at the ancient dwelling place near Tolomosa, m 

the Tarija Valley . . - . ^^^ 

The Arch-^^ology op the Pueblo Region (Hewktt): 

Plate I. Fig. 2, ruins of Puye Pueblo, New Mexico; fig. 2, restoration 

of cliff dwellings in Sandia Canyon , New Mexico 586 

II. Restoration of pueblo of Tchirege. New Mexico 586 

III. Ruins of pueblo of Giusewa and mission of San Diego, New 

, , . 590 

Mexico 

IV. Fig. 2. pueblo ruins, Montezuma Mesa, New Mexico; fig. 2, 

cliff dwelling, Montezuma Mesa, New Mexico - - - 5<I0 

V. Fig. 1, ruins of Hungopavi, New Mexico; fig. 2, ruins of Kink- 

lizhin. New Mexico '*" "* 

VI Fie- 1 ruins of Kinkletsoi, New Mexico; fig. 2, cliff dwelling, 

" 594 

Colorado _: 

VII. Casa Blanca, Arizona '' 

VIII. Cliff dwelling and mummy cave , Canyon del Muerto, Arizona .).)8 

IX. Cliff palace. Mesa Verde Park. Colorado - - ^02 

X Fi'' 2 Montezuma Castle, Beaver Creek, Arizona; fig. 2, Casa 

Grand, Gila Valley, Arizona ^^^ 

XI. Cliff dwellings, Gila Hot Springs, New Mexico ^^^^ 

POINTING OF Human Bones Among American Aborigines (Hrdlicka): 

Plate I Fig 1 modern female skull with painted inscription and de- 
coration; fig. 2, male skull, with black designs on face 
(colored plate) ii 

II. Fig. 1, Wasco- skull, with a discoloration by copper salts; fig. 

2. Wasco skull, with colored cross over frontal bone (col- 
ored plate) ■ - '1 

III. Male skull painted red, from Lower California (colored plate) . 61b 
Sling Contrivances for Projectile Weapons (Krause): 

Plate I. Slings for hurling weapons ^~ 

II. Slings for hurling weapons .-- »- 

III. Slings for hurling weapons ^'^^ 

IV. Slings for hurling weapons 



XII LIST OF PLATES. 

Materials Used to Write Upon (Maire): Page. 

Plate I. Clay tablet, with linear prehistoric script- _ 644 

II. Lachish cuneiform clay tablet 644 

III. Babylanian alabastar votive tablet- . 648 

IV. Moro school exercise inscribed on board 648 

V. Hebrew scroll of unbleached leatlier 652 

VI. Fraj^nient of Hebrew manuscript on parchment 652 

VII. Hebrew manuscript of Pentatauch on vellum 656 

VIII. Etliiopic^ manuscript of j^osjjel of John on ])archment 656 

Chinese Architecture (BrsuEi.L): 

Plate I. Sacrificial hall of Yung Lo. Peking 678 

II. Imperial hall of tlie classics. Pi Yung Kung 678 

III. Memorial arch of marble and glazed terra cotta. Paieon 680 

IV. The great altar of heaven. T'ien T'an 680 

V. Temple of heaven. Ch'i Nien Tien 682 

VI. Shrine and altar of Ccmfucius, Peking 682 

VII. Garden pavilion at Wan Bhou Shan - - 684 

VIII. Lake at Wan Shou Shan 684 

IX. Hunchback bridge. Lo-Ko Ch'iao 684 

X. Bronze Buddhist shrine at Wan Shou Shan . - . . 684 

XI. * ' Porcelain " " pagoda at Yuan-Ming Yuan . . 686 

XII. Pagoda. Ling Kuang Ssu 686 

XIII. Buddhist triad. Interior of Lama temple 688 

XrV. Stupa of sculptured marble 688 

XV. Incarnation of a Bodhisattva. Pai T'a Ssu _ 688 

XVI. Lama temple at Jehol 688 

XVII. Five-towered temple, near Peking 692 

XVIII. Bronze incense burner 692 

XIX. Ruined gateway of a mosque, Peking 692 

Pewter and the Revival of Its Use (Liberty): 

Plate I. Fig. 1 , candlestick; fig. 2, card tray 696 

II. Fig. 1, biscuit box; photograph frame: fig. ;5, fruit basket; fig. 
4, frame for glass flower bowl; fig. 5, tray and lid for glass 

butter bowl 696 

III. Fig. 1, liqueur set and tray; fig. 2, two-handled vase; fig. 3, 

hot- water jug _ - - 702 

IV. Fig. 1, coflfee pot; fig. 2, glass claret jug; fig. 3, beer tankard. 

with handle 702 

V. Fig. 1 , tripod bowl; fig. 2, tray, with grip hands 708 

VI. Fig. 1, entree dish and cover; fig. 2, cigar box; fig. 3, T)iscuit 

box 708 

Cameos (Davenport); 

Plate I. Cameo portrait of Augustus 714 

II. Scaraboids and select Greek gems 714 

III. Grieco-Roman gems 718 

IV. Greek and Roman portraits 718 

The Pro.jected New Barge Canal (Symons): 

Plate I. Map showing proposed route of new Erie Canal 751 

(tEoroe Gabriel Stokes (Brown); 

Plate I. Sir George Gabriel Stokes 773 

Karl Albert von Zittel (Schuchert): 

Plate I. Karl Alfred von Zittel 779 

Carl Geoenbauer (Hertwig): 

Plate I. Carl Gegenbauer 787 



THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



MEMBERS EX OFEICIO OF THE '^ESTABLISHMENT." 



TiiEODOKK lioosEVELT, I'lT'sidoiit of tlio United states. 

(Vacancy), Vice-President of the United States. 

Melville W. Fuller, Chief Justice of the United States. 

John Hay, Secretary of State. 

Leslie M. Shaw, Secretary of the Treasury. 

William H. Taft, Secretary of War. 

Philander C. Knox, Attorney-General. 

Henry C. Payne, Postmaster-General. 

William H. Moody, Secretary of the Navy. 

Ethan Allen Hitchcock, Secretary of tlu; Interior. 

James Wilson, Secretary of Agriculture. 

George B. Cortelyou, Secretary of Commerce and Lahor. 



REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION. 

(Uist siiven on foilowins pa.ixe. ) 

OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



Samuel P. Lanolky, Srvrclurif. 
Director of the liistilutioii and Keeper of the U. .S'. Afitional Museum. 

Richard Rathcun, Assistant Secretary. 

XIII 



REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 



By the organizing act approved Angust 10, 1846 (Revised Stat- 
utes", Title LXXIIL section 5580), " The business of the Institution 
shall be conducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Regents, 
named the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be composed 
of the Vice-President, the Chief Justice of the United States, three 
members of the Senate, and three members of the House of Repre- 
sentatives, together Avith six other persons, other than members of 
Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the city of Washington 
and the other four shall be inhabitants of some State, but no two 
of the same State."' 



REGE^'Tti FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, WOJ,. 

The Chief Justice of the United States : 

MELVILLE W. FULLER, elected Chancellor and President of the Board, 
January 9, 1889. 
The Vice-President of the United States (vacancy) : 

WILLIAM P. FRYE, President pro tempore of the Senate, acting as Regent. 
United States Senators : Term expires. 

SHELBY iM. CULLOM (ai)pointed Mar. 24, 1885. Mar. 28, 

1889, Dec. 18, 1895, and Mar. 7, 1901)_ Mar. 3,1907 

ORVILLE II. PLATT (appointed Jan. 18, 1899, Feb. 23. 100,3) _ Mar. 3, 1909 

FRANCIS .M. COCKRELL (appointed Mar. 7. 1901) Mar. 3.1905 

Members of the House of Rei)resentatives : 

ROBERT R, HITT (appointed Aug. It, 1S03, Jan. 4, 18!)4, 
Dec. 20. IS!).-., Dec. 22, 1897, Jan. 4, 1900, Dec. 13, 1!)()1. 

and Jan. 12, 1904) Dec. 27,1905 

ROBERT ADAiMS. Jr. (appointed Dec. 20. 1895, Dec. 22, 

1897, Jan. 4, 1900, Dec. 13. 1901, and Jan. 12, 1904) Dec. 27,1905 

HUGH A. DINSMORE (ai)pointed Jan. 4, 1900, Dec. 13. 1901. 

and .Tan. 12, 1904) Dec. 27.1005 

Citizens of a State : 

JAMES B. ANGELL, of Michigan (ai.i.ointed Jan. 10, 1,S,S7. 

Jan. 9, 1803, and Jan. 24, 1899) Jan. 24.1005 

ANDREW D. WHITE, of New York (appointed Feb. 15, 1888, 

Mar. 19, 1894. and .June 2. 1000) June 2,1900 

RICHARD OLNEY, of Massachusetts (appointed Jan. 24, 

1900) Jan. 24, 1906 

GEORGE GRAY, of Delaware (appointed Jan. 14, 1901) Jan. 14,1907 

Citizens of Washington City : 

JOHN B. HENDERSON (appointed Jan. 20, 1892, Jan. 24, 

1898, and Jan. 27, 1904) Jan. 27,1910 

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL (appointed Jan. 24, 1898, 

and Jan. 27, 1904) Jan. 27,1910 



Executive Committee of the Board of Regents. 
John B. Henderson, Chairman. Alexander Gr.\ham Bell. 

Ror.ERT R. II ITT. 



KOCKEDINGS OF TIIK BOAKD OF REliENTS FOll THE YEAR 
ENDING JUNE 30, 1004. 



At a luoetiu^- held Miuvh I'J, 1!H).">, llic lioanl of lici^ciits adoptod 
(he following resolution : 

h'csolrcil, 'rii.it. ill addiUon to tlip piescrilRvl ineetin.^ hcU\ on llic I'ourtli Wcd- 
iH'sil;i\ ill January, regular nieetinjis of tlH> P>oard sliall bo lu'ld on the Tucsda.v 
aftiT tile lirst Monday in Deceuibcr and on the 6th day of Marcii. unU-ss that 
date falls on Sunday, when the foUowin!,' Monday sliall be substituted. 

In accordance with the above resolution, the lioard met at 10 
o'clock a. ni. on December 8, 1903, and on January '27 and March 7, 
1004. 

REGULAR MEETING OF DECEMBER 8, 1903. 

Present: Mr. Chief Justice Fuller (Chancellor) in the chair; 
Senator S*. M. Cullom; Senator O. H. Piatt; Senator F. M. Cock- 
rell; Senator W. P. Frye, President pro tempoi-e of the Senate; 
Representative Robert Adams, jr.; Representative Hugh A. Dins- 
more; the Hon. Richard Olney; the Hon. John B. Henderson; the 
Hon. George Gray; Dr. A. Graham Bell, and the Secretary, S. P. 
Langley. 

EXCUSES FOR NONATTENDANCE. 

The Secretary read letters from Dr. J. B. Angell and the Hon. 
R. R. Hitt, explaining that imi)oi-tant engagements prevented their 
attendance. He stated also that Dr. Andrew D. White was at present 
in Europe. 

MINUTES OF PREVIOUS IVIEETINOS. 

The Secretary read in abstract the minutes- of the meetings of Jan- 
uary 28 and March 12, and, there being no objection, they were 
approved. 

NEW BUILDING FOR NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The Secretary read a report which showed that with the advice and 
consent of the Chancellor and the chairman of the executive com- 
mittee, as required by the resolution of the Board of Regents adopted 
March 12, a contract had been made, under date of May 18, 1903, wnth 
Messrs. Hornblower & IVIarshall, architects, of AVashington, D. C., for 
the necessary architectural services. 

XV 



XVI PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

SPECIAI; REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

In the absence of the chairman of the executive committee Doctor 
Bell made a verbal report of the action of the committee, in whicli he 
included certain resolutions on which he asked the approval of the 
Board. 

REPORT or SPECIAL COMMITTEE. 

The Chancellor then read at -length the report of the special com- 
mittee appointed for the purpose of considering the question of 
defining the powers of the executive committee, and after a discussion, 
participated in by Senator Piatt, Doctor Bell, Senator Henderson, 
and Judge Gray, Senator Henderson asked that the report might lie 
over until the January meeting. 

The Chancellor suggested that it would be well to have the report 
and the exhibit of the past acts of the executive committee printed 
and communicated to the members of the Board. 

The follow^ing resolutions were then adopted : 

Resolved, That the report of the special committee, together with its exhibit, 
be printed and distributed to the members of the Board of Regents, and called 
up at the January meeting for action. 

Resolved, That the executive committee's report, as presented by Doctor Bell, 
be printed and distributed to the members of the Board of Regents, and called 
up at the .January meeting for action. 

COaiPILATION OF LAWS AFFECTING SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

The Secretaiy presented the compilation of laws which had I)een 
prepared in accordance with a resolution offered by Senator Cockrell 
at the meeting of March 12, and adopted by the Board. 

On motion, the manuscript was referred to Senator Cockrell for 
examination and decision as to printing. 

REMOVAL OF SMITHSON's REMAINS. 

The Secretary read a letter from the Hon. William Henry Bishop, 
United States consul at Cienoa, showing the need of action in the 
removal of James Smithson's remains, owing to the imminence of 
the proposed demolition of the cemetery in which they reposed. 

Doctor Bell renewed the proposition which he made at the last 
meeting that the remains of Smitlison be brought to this country at 
his expense. 

After further remarks Judge Gray offered the following resolu- 
tions, which were adopted : 

Resolved, That Dr. A. Graham Bell be appointed as a committee to take 
charge of the matter of the removal of the remains of .James Smithson from 
Genoa to Washington, with the request that the negotiations and removal be 
conducted quietly and privately. 



PROCEKDINCS OF TJJE BOARD OF REGENTS. XVII 

Rr.sDircil. Tliiit \1|m>ii the roiiclusion of this duty. ;ill «'X|k'iisi>s involved by it 
lie i-('itiilnirs»>d to I>octoi- I'.cll fiom llic fiiiids of tlir Institution. 

'J'Ik* lioard then ad joiiriicd. 

ANNUAL MEETING OF JANUARY 27, 1904. 

Present: Mr. Chief Justice Fuller (Chancellor), in the cliair; the 
Hon. 8. M. Culloni; the Hon. O. II. Piatt; the Hon. F. M. Cockrell; 
(he Hon. R. R. Hitt; the Hon. Robert Adams, jr.; the Hon. Hugh A. 
Dinsmore; Dr. J. B. Anoell; the Hon. John B. Henderson; Dr. A. 
(irahani Bell; the Hon. Richard Olney, and the Secretary, Mr. S. P. 
Langley. 

EXCUSES FOR NGN ATTENDANCE. 

Excuses for nonattendance were received from Senator Frye and 
Judge Gray, on account of important engagements, and from Dr. 
Andrew D. "\Miite, who was unable to attend owing to absence abroad. 

MINUTES OF PREVIOUS MEETING. 

The Secretaiy read in abstract the minutes of the previous meeting, 
and there being no objection they were declared approved. 

REAPPOINTMENT OF REGENTS. 

The Secretary announced that on January 12 the Speaker of the 
House had reappointed Representatives Hitt, Adams, and Dinsmore 
as Regents for two years; and also that Senator Henderson and Dr. 
A. Graham Bell had been reappointed for a term of six j^ears by joint 
resolution approved by the President January 27, 1904. 

RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INC03IE AND EXPENDITURE. 

Mr. Hitt, on behalf of the executive committee, presented the fol- 
lowing resolution, which was adopted : 

Resolved, That the incouie of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June 
30, 190.5, be appropriated for tlie service of the Institution, to be expended by 
tlie Secretary, witli the advice of the execiitive coniinittee, witli full discretion 
on the part of the Secretary as to items. 

ANNUAL RKPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The Secretary presented his report of the operations of the Institu- 
tion for the year ending June 30, 1903, which was accepted. 

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE CO^EMITTEE. 

Senator Henderson, chairman, presented the rejiort of the com- 
mittee for the year ending June 30, 1903, which was adopted, 
SM 1904 n 



XVIII PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE. 

Senator Henderson, chairman, rejoorted upon the present status of 
tlie proposed be(iuests of Addison T. Keid and Joseph AMiite SjH'ague ; 
also concerning the will of Wallace C. Andrews and the condition of 
the Hodgkins and Avery funds. He further stated that the Secre- 
tary had expended, under the authority of the Board, the sum of 
$14,225.02 on his experiments in mechanical flight, from January 1 
to December 31, 1903. _ 

The Secretary then submitted a statement on the work of the Insti- 
tution, conducted since the date of his annual report (Jmie 30, 1003), 
together with his plans for future operations. 

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE. 

The Chancellor stated that the next matter to be disposed of was 
the report of the special committee to consider the question of defin- 
ing the duties of the executive committee, and in this connection. also 
the special report of the executive committee, but suggested that 
owing to lack of time it might be Avell to defer this until the meeting 
of March 7 next, which the Board aj^proved. 

RE3IOVAL OF SIVUITHSOn's REMAINS. 

Doctor Bell's report upon the nuitter of the removal of Smithson's 
i-emains from Genoa to Washington, and their delivery to the charge 
of the Board, was next in order, but the hour having arrived at which 
it was necessary for a majority of the llegents to leave for their duties 
at the Capitol, the Board took a recess until 8 o'clock this evening, 
when the report would be received and considered. 

8 o'clock p. m. 

The Board resumed its meeting at the Institution. 

Present : The Hon. S. M. Cullom, the Hon. O. H. Piatt, the Hon. 
F. M. Cockrell, the Hon. E. K. Hitt, the Hon. Eobert Adams, jr., the 
Hon. Hugh A. Dinsmore, the Hon. John B. Henderson, the Hon. 
Richard Olney, Dr. A. (Traham Bell, and the Secretary, Mr. S. P. 
Langley. 

Senator Cullom was invited to preside. 

Doctor Bell then read his report in full, and after discussion in 
which certain changes were suggested, it m'rs accepted. (The report 
will be found ai)pended hereto, p. xx.) 

Mv. Adams then offered the following resolution, which was 
adopted: 

Rcsoh'rd. That the Ticiard of Hoijeiits desire to record in tlie minutes of the 
Institution their jirofoinid appreciation of the voluntary service of Dr. Alexan- 
der Grahain Bell in personally going to (lenoa and returning with the remains. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XIX 

of James Sniithson, that thoy iiiii,'lit find a rostiiij; placo in the grounds of the 
Institution he so nohly founded " lor Ihc increase and diffusion of knowledge 
among men." 

Some further discussion took jilace with regard (o the final disposi- 
tion of the remains, and Senator Phitt offered the following resolu- 
tion, which was adopted : 

Jirsolrcd. That the Chancellor and the Secretary, with the members of the 
executive committee, be appointed a committee upon flie (juestion of the final 
disposition of the remains of James Smithson, and of the moniunent to be 
erected to him. with iiower to act in the entire matter. 

The Board then adjourned. 

REGULAR MEETING OF MARCH 7, 1904. 

Present: Mr, Chief Justice P^uller (Chancellor), in the chair; the 
Hon. William P. Frye, the Hon. S. M. Cullom, the Hon. O. H. Piatt, 
the Hon. F. M. Cockrell, the Hon. R. R. Hitt, the Hon. Robert 
Adams, jr., the Hon. John B. Henderson, Dr. A. Graham Bell, and 
the Secretary, Mr. S. P. Langley. 

EXCUSES FOR NGN ATTENDANCE. 

The Secretary presented excuses in writing for nonattendance from 
Judge Gray, Doctor Angell, and Mr. Olney, on acxount of engage- 
ments, and added that Mr. Dinsmore had sent a message that he Avas 
compelled to leave the city and would not be present. Doctor AVliite 
was still absent in Europe. 

]MINITTES OF PREVIOUS MEETING. 

The minutes of the previous meeting were read in abstract, and 
there being no objection, were declared approved. 

REPORT or SPECTAE COMMITTEE. 

The Chancellor, as chairman, read the rei)oi't of the special com- 
mittee appointed to consider the question of defining the powers of 
the executive counnittee. 

The report Avas ver}' fully discussed, and, on motion, was adopted. 

SPECIAIi REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

IMr. Bell read the rcjjort of tht* executive^'ommittee as presented by 
him at the meeting of December 8, ]t)0;>. 

After discussion it was moAed and carried that the consideration 
of the resolutions recommended by Doctor Bell Ix^ indefinitely 
postponed. 



XX PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

KEI'OKT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEK ON THE DISPOSITION OK THE REAIAINS 

OK JAMES SAIITHSON. 

Tlic Cliancelloi- staled that at the meeting of the Board of Kegents 
hehl Jannarv '27, 11)04, the folloAving resolution was adopted: 

Rcfiolvcd, Tliat the Cliaii<'(>lli)r and the Secretary, with the members (tf the 
executive committee, be aiiiH)iiite(l a c(mimittee u\Hm the ciuestion of the tinal 
disposition of the remains of James Smithson and of tlie moninuciit to lie (>rect(>il 
to liim. witli po\Aer to act in the entire matter. 

The committee provided by the above resohition met on March 4, 
1904, and after discussion adopted the foHowing resohition: 

Resolvech That a fitting tomb sliould be erected on the grounds of tlie Smith- 
sonian Institution as a final resting place for the body of James Smithson, and 
that after consideration of the character and cost of such tomb Congress be 
requested to make an adequate appropriation for it. 

NATIONAL (iALLERV or ART. 

The Secretary then brought before the Board the matter of tlie will 
of the late Mrs. Harriet Lane Johnston, who left a number of paint- 
ings to the Corcoran Gallery of Art until a national gallery of art 
had been established by the Government. The Corcoran gallery had 
declined the pictures under these conditions, and Mr. Corcoran Tliom 
had communicated with the Secretary with regard to the probability 
of the Government establishing such a national gallery of art inider 
the Institution. After discussion, on motion of Senator Cullom, the 
matter was referred to the executive committee. 

The Board then adjourned. 



APPENDIX TO PROCEEDINGS OF REGENTS. 

REPORT OE COMMITTEE ON THE TRANSEER OF THE REMAINS OF JAMES 
SMITHSON TO THE UNITED STATES. 

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution. 

Gentlemen : As the committee charged with the duty of bringing 
to the United States the mortal remains of James Smithson, the 
founder of the Smithsonian Institution, I beg to report the successful 
accomplishment of my mission: and the remains wei-e lianded over 
to (he Smithsonian Institution hist Monday, the 2tA\\ of January, 
11)04. 

I readied Genoa, Italy, on the 2r)th of December, 1003, and next 
day presented my credentials to the American consul, Mr. William 
Henry Bishop, and to Mr. Noel Lees, for the committee of the 
British Burial Ground Fund Association. 

On the 20th of December I made formal api)lication for the 
remains of James Smithson, and on the Hist of December they were 
delivered into my custody. In accordance with the expressed wish 



PROCEF.niN(iS OF TFIF HOARD OF RF^GFNTS. XXT 

of the l\t'<^eiits, (ho cxhuination was clfcctcd (luicdy and privately, 
only the Aniorican consul and six other witnesses heino- present in 
addition to the woi-knien eiiij)l()\»M|. 

I have the honor of suhiiiitt ino- th(> foUowinn- certificate from the 
American consul (k'scrihiiiii: the exhumation: 

'I'HK ("oNsri.ATK OK IIIK r.NITH) STAIKS OK AmKIUCA. 

(j'cillKI. fidh/. 

'\\t w lioui it may coiiceiMi : 

I, William Henry Hisliop. consul of the United States of America, do hereby 
certify that on Thursday. December .'{1. l!)o:!. at al»out 11 o'clock in tiie morn- 
ing, I was present at the opening of the grave known without doubt or (pii'stion 
to be that of James Smithson, in the old English cemetery of San P.cnignct .-it 
(Jenoa. said .lames Snnthson having died ;it (icnoa in tlic ycai- 1.Sl".». ;ind having 
been buried till now in the said cemet(>ry. That on the ojicning of the grave 
the remains, consisting of little more than the skeleton, were seen clearly- 
exposed to view, since no earth had been thrown upon the body, and the wooden 
cotMn tlinl cont.iinc*! it had entirely fallen to decay; that said remains were 
rev(M-ently removed from the grave :uid ]>laced in a metal casket ])reitared to 
receive thciii : that the said metal casket was thereupon sealed ui> securely 
and put in the mortuary chapel of the cemetery, as in the custody of Dr. Alex- 
ander Graham Bell, to await his convenience in conveying it to America. 

I fui-ther certify that there were i)resent with me, and witnesses of all the 
circumstances of the above-described exhumation, the following persons: Dr. 
Alexander Graham Bell, Washington. D. C, especially commissioned by the 
Smith.sonian Institution to convey the remains of James Smithson to the United 
States; Mrs. Alexander Graham Bell, his wife. Washington. D. C; Noel Lees, 
esq., Genoa. Italy, ofticial representative of the British Burial Ground Fund 
Association, in which the proprietorship of the said cemetery of San Benigno 
is vested; (iiiio CoiJiJcde. Genoa, ai'chitect and engineer, charged with the work 
of opening the tomb and grave of the said James Smithson. and of removing 
all the belongings of the said cemetery to the new site to which it is to be 
transferred; (iiovanni Battista Firpo. (Jenoa. gardeniu' by profession and paid 
custodi.in for many years past of the Said cemetery and of the grave of James 
Smithson. h.-iving succeeded his father in the siune office; Federico Guarini, 
tlic municipal guai'd deputed by the bureau of hygiene to be present on the occa- 
sion ; Paolo Parodi. metal worker and chief undertaker, in transfcri-ing the 
remains to the casket and soldering up the same. 

That the above-mentioned persons ai-e :ili personally known to me, and known 
to fill the various functions respectively assigned to thon above. That they 
have consented to he sworn as to the matters herein alleged, and that each has 
appended his signature hereunto as making oath to the truth of the statements, 
so far as each one individu.illy is concerned, above set forth. 

Alexander Graham Bell. 

Mabel G. Bell. 

Noel Lees. 

Archo Gino Coppede. 

G. B. Fuu'o. 

Fedp:rico GuARiNr. 

Paolo Parodl 
In testimony whereof 1 have hereunto .set my hand and affixed my seal of 
office this .31st day of December, 1903. 

[seal.] William ITenry Bishop, 

Coiimil (if the Ciiitcd .states of America at Ocnoa, Italy. 



XXII PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

The above certificate of the American consul was signed by the 
witnesses named in the mortuary chapel of the cemetery after the 
casket had been soldered up in their presence. The witnesses named 
and the Avorkmen employed then stood around wath uncovered heads 
while the consul of the United States placed over the remains of 
James Smithson the American flag. 

The casket was left in the mortuary chapel to await my convenience 
in transporting it to America; and Giovanni Battista Firpo, the 
gardener employed by the Smithsonian Institution as the custodian 
of the grave of James Smithson, was left in charge — he agreeing to 
remain in the mortuary chapel night and day until the removal of the 
remains. 

On Saturday, the l2d of January, 11)04, the foregoing witnesses 
again assembled in the mortuarj'- chapel of the cemetery, and in their 
l^resence the metallic casket was j^laced within a coffin of strong wood. 

Before the lid of the coffin was screwed down our consul, Mr. 
Bishop, placed upon the casket the seal of the consulate of the United 
States and covered the casket wnth an American flag. Mrs. Bell then 
placed within the coffin a wreath of leaves from the grave of Smith- 
son, and all the witnesses contributed flowers. 

Immediately before the removal of the remains from the mortuary 
chajjel the following addresses were made : 

KKMARKS OF WILLIAM IIENKY BISHOP, UNITED STATES CONSUL. 

lOn the occasion of the removal of the remains of James Smithson from the mortuary 
chapel of the cemetery of San Benigno, January 2, 1904.] 

Dr. Alexander Graham Bell: You arrived here, my dear Dr. Graham Bell, 
charged by the Smithsonian Institution with the mission of removing to Wash- 
ington the remains of the founder of that Institution, James Smithson, who has 
been buried till now in the cemetery where we stand, since his death at Genoa 
in the year 1829. Having been invited by you and by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution \o aid you to what extent I might be able in this object, it has been a 
matter of great pride and pleasure to me that I have been allowed to do so. 

All the steps necessary to such removal have now been taken. We have 
received the authorization of the governmental heads of the province, the city, 
and the British Burial Ground Fund, in which latter the title to tlie cemetery 
and the custody of the grave of James Smithson is vested, and all of these have 
kindly cooperated with us in the work. 

The body of James Smithson has now been reverently raised from the earth; 
it has been placed in a case securely sealed, and this case stands ready to pass 
into the charge of the steamship company which will convey it to New York. 

I assure you that it is with a feeling of real emotion that I have just now 
cast the American flag over the body of this illustrious man, this noble but as 
yet little ku(nvn benefact(U% as it is on the verge of l»eginning its journey to the 
United States. The flag adopts him already, as it were, in the substance, for 
our country, to which he has so long belonged in the spirit. He is now about 
to receive there a portion of the outward venei-ation and homage he so supremely 
merits, and which, owing to the modest circumstances of his life, and his inter- 
ment here in some sense almost forgotten, he has never had. 



l'l{()('KKI)IN(iS OK THE BOARD OK KEGENTS. XXIII 

Sli;il! 1 adiiiit tlint on lakiuK possession ol" my post as consul at Gonoa, I 
(lid not oven know wlio James Smitlison wasV I may say that I was surprised 
to loai-n tiiaf he was Ituried at Genoa: more surprised still that he was an 
Eni^lisjiman. who had never even set foot in America. He left his jjcreat bequest 
to the United States, then in its infancy, through achniring confidence in our 
future. It is likely that many, or even most, Americ;ins Jire in the same condi- 
tion as was I myself; for occasion has rarely arisen for taking thought as to 
the i)ersonality of the man. II:ii)|)ily this unenlightened condition of mind is 
aliout to (■e;ise. 

Dr. (iraham I'.ell, 1 wish you a lu>arty godsiu'cul across the ocean with your 
precious freight, 'i'lie .\nierican iieople will i-eceive it with general gratification, 
;ind, through the Smithsonian Institution, will soon delight to pay it great honor. 

HKMAUKS OF A I.KX A M)KK (lUAIIAM I'AAA. JN BKSPO.NSE TO Till: AIJOVK. 

Mr. Consul: It is with feelings of deep emotion that I undertake the trans- 
Itortation of the remains of James Smitlison from the cemetery where they have 
so long rei)osed to their last resting place in the United States. 

*)n behalf of the Smithsonian Institution allow me to thank you, Mr. Consul, 
for the unwearied zeal and care with which you have given me your assistance. 
Without your active cooperation and without your personal sympathy it would 
have been difficult indeed for me to have accomplished the object of my mission 
here. 

On behalf of the Smithsonian Institution, I beg to thank you, too, Mr. Noel 
FiCes, for your courtesy and attention; and trust that you will convey to His 
r.ritisli Majesty's consul-general and to the committee of the British Church 
lUirial Ground Fund my thanks and the thanks of the Institution I represent 
for their ready assistance in furthering my nussioii. 

The United States of America will provide in Washington, D. C, a suitable 
and permanent resting place for the remains of her great benefactor, James 
Smithson, through the instrumentality of the Smithsonian Institution — the 
establishment created by the Government to perpetuate his name. 

REMARKS OF NOEL LEES, ESQ. 

[On belialf of the P.ritisli F.iirial (Iround Fund ("oiumittee.] 

Dr. Graham Bell : I beg to thank you heartily for the words you have said 
with regard to the aid you have received from the burial board and myself. 
Although we regret to l©se the remains of James Smithson, we at the same 
time feel that in the country to which he left his money, with such charitable 
intent, his remains will receive the honor and glory which have so long been 
due to them, and we must understand that our loss is America's gain. To us 
it will always remain a pleasant memory that, from the date of his burial 
to the present day, we have had in our custody in this picturesque little 
churchyard the remains of a man whose foresight and kindness have enabled 
so many in the New ^^■oI•ld to ixMietit. 

Upon the coiiclusioii of these remarks the remains of James Smith- 
son were transported to the North (xernian Lloy<l steamship Princess 
/reitc, accompanied by tlie American consul and myself. The steamer 
left (lenoa for New Yoi-k on the Tth of ffamiai-y, li)()4, tonchin<»; at 
Naples and (xihraltar on the way. The American consid at Naples, 
General Byinglon, contributed an Amerit-an Hag to cover the wooden 
coiRii containing the remains. 



XXIV PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

Not knowino- the iiaturo of the reception aiTan<>:enients that were 
being made in the United States, I telegraphed from Gibraltar to my 
son-in-law, Mr. Gilbert II. Grosvenor, expressing the hope that the 
remains of James Smithson would be received with as much honor as 
those of John Howard Payne. 

After conferring with the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, Mr. Grosvenor laid the substance of my telegram before the 
President of the United States, who innnediately responded by 
requesting the Secretary of the Navy to detail the U. S. dispatch- 
boat Dolphin to meet the Princess Irene on her arrival at quarantine, 
escort her to the pier at Hoboken, X. J., and then bring the remains 
to Washington, 

At the request of Mr. Grosvenor a squadron of United States cav- 
alry was also detailed to escort the remains from the navy -yard to 
their resting place here. Mr. Grosvenor has made a report to me of 
the correspondence which resulted in this cooperation of the United 
States Government, which will be found in the appendix. 

As your committee charged with the duty of bringing the remains 
to the Smithsonian Institution, I have expressed to the President 
and to the Secretary of the Navy and to the Secretary of War my 
sincere appreciation of these acts of courtes}'', which have given a 
national character to the reception accorded to the remains of James 
Smithson on their arrival in the United States. 

On Monday, the 25th of January, 1904, I handed over, at the 
Smithsonian Institution, to Senator Frye, as the representative of 
the Board of Regents, the remains of this great benefactor of the 
United States. 

I have the honor to present as an a])pendix to this repoi't the fol- 
l(jwing documents: 

A. Copy of the application of your couniiittee to the committee of tlio British 
Burial Ground Fund Association for the custody of the remains of .lames Smith- 
son, with the reply. 

B. Copy of the application of your conunittee to the prefect of the i)rovince of 
Genoa for permission to remove the remains of .lames Smithson to the I'nited 
States, with a copy of the decree i>ermittinj; such removal. 

C. Copy of a certificate made hy the British consul-general at Genoa, at the 
request of tlie nuniicipal hureau of hygiene, stating that no oh.iection e.xisted on 
the part of the British cousulate-geueral to the removal of the remains of .Tames 
Smithson. 

D. Certificate of the acting mayor of Genoa rliat all the retiuirements of the 
existing regulations on mortuary matters had been coiiiiijied with. 

E. Copy of the final certificate of the An\erican consul. .i,'iven to your conunit- 
tee on hoard the steamer Priiircsx Irene as she was al)out to leave (ienoa for 
New York. 

F. Copy of letter from Lieut. Connnander .J. II. (iilibons, IT. S. Navy, deliv- 
ered on hoard the steamer Privee.s.s Irene upon her airiv.al at quanantine, 
notifying your committee of the action of the Navy Department in detailing the 



PRO('Ep:DTyr:s of ttte hoard of rfoents. xxv 

TT. S. S. Ihiliiliiii to cdiivt'y llic rciiiniiis of .Innics Siuidisoii from Now Yoi'k to 
W:isliiii,u:(ini. 

(J. ('()i».v of (lie rt'iii;irks of your coniiiiithH' ill: the Siiii(lisoiii;iii lusl itiilioii 
Jaiiuiiry LT). 1!M»4, in liMiidiiii; over the rciiiaiiis (»f Jaiucs Siiiitlison 1o SimimIoi- 
Kryc as (lie i-c|H'cs('iita( ivc of the I'.n.ird of Kc^miIs. lo:,'('t Iht with (he I'l'iily of 
S«'iiator Fryc. 

II. ('()])y of rcporl of .Mr. (iiiltcrl II. (Jrosvciiof, M. ,\., coiiccnrm;,' the con-c- 
s])oiuIoiic(' wiiich rt'siiltcd in tlic coopcratioii of tlir I'liilcd Slates (iovci'iiiiicnt 
ill Iransportiii}; the remains of .lames Smilhsou from .\e\v ^■ork to tiie Snntii- 
soniaii Institution in Washinj;ton. 1). ('. 

I. Copy of telejrranis and letters s(>nt by your committee to tlie President of 
the Fnited States, and to the Seeretary of the Xavy. and to tiie Serretaiy of 
AVar, in aekno\vIed,siinent of GovernnuMit courtesies. 

J. Statement of e.xpenses incurred in tiie removal of tlie remains of James 
Smithson to tlie United States. 

T may say that it is entirely duo to tlio ability and onoroy of our 
consul at (lenoa that the ti'ansfer of the remains to the United States 
"was ett'ected at all. AVithoiit his earnest and intellioent assistance it 
would have been difficult indeed, if not imi^ossible, for me, to have 
accomplished the object of my mission abroad. No less than five dis- 
linct permits had to be obtained from different go^■ernment officials 
in Italy, besides a certificate from the British consul-general and per- 
mission from the British Burial Ground Ftind Association. In addi- 
tion to the official permits required special difficulties were encoun- 
tered which at first sight seemed insiirmountalile, but which were 
successfully overcome by the tact and ability of our consul at Genoa. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Alexander (Jraiiam Bell, 
C'omi)i/tt('e on tlie Transfer of the Remains of 

James SmltJixon to the United States. 

Washington, D. C, Januari/ 27, WO.'t. 



Appendt.v a. — Aiiplicdlidii to llir cf/niiiiiflcr of the lirifis/i liiiridi Clrouttd Fund 
Assdciiitioii for till' <-iisto<lji of till' rciiiiiitis of ,/iiiiics Siiiitli.'<oii. iritli the 
reply. 

Ede.\ Pal.vce Hotel. 
Genoa, DreriHlter 29, 1003. 

Dear Sir: I have the honor to reijuest that the remains of .James Smithson. 
now restiiii; in the old cemetery on the heights of San Benij^no, lie delivered to 
me for transixtrtation to the T'nited States. 

P.y the will of James Smithson the I'nited States of America hecame his heir. 
The (iovi'rnment of the I'nited States accepted the heipU'st ; and. in conformity 
with the terms of the will created in W'ashiniiton. I). (".. :in estahlishmeiil for the 
increase and ditfusion of knowle<li;e amoii.i? men luider the title of " 'rii(> Smith- 
sonian Institution." 

It apiK^ars that an immediate necessity exists for the removal of the remains 
of this g;reat benefactor of the I'nited States from the cemetery where they li.ave 
so long reposed; and it seems peculiarly ajiiiropriate that the body of Smithson 



XXVI PROCEEDINGS OP THE BOARD OP REGENTS. 

should now l>p fjiki^ii to AiiH>ricii :iml eaivd for i)erin:inentl.v by tho institution 
whifh bears his nauic. 

As the authorized representative of the Snuthsonian Institution for tliis 
purpose, I resi)eetfidl.v nialve aiiplicalion foi- the custody of tlie remains. 
1 am. sir, yours, respeetfully. 

Alexander Graham Beij., 
Rcficnt of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Noel Lees, Esi]., 

Cure of His Britannic Majesty's Consul-General for the Committee, 

British Burial Ground Fund, Genoa, Italy. 

reply to the aijove. 

Care of His Britannic Majesty's Consul-general, 

Genoa, January 2, lOOJf. 
Dear Sir: Your favor of December 20, 1903, to hand. On tlie 31st of the 
same montli the remains of James Smitlison. buried in the British cemetery at 
San Benigno in this city, were exhumed in tlie pres(>nce of the ITnited States 
consul, yourself ( representinir the Snuthsonian Institute), myself, and other 
witnesses. The remains were then formally lianded over to you. and I now 
confirm the same in this letter, understanding that the remains will be trans- 
ported to the ITnited States. 

I remain, dear sir. yours, faithfully. 

Noel Lees, 
Assistant Secretary British Burial Ground Fund, Genoa. 

Dr. A. Graham Bell. 

Eden Palace Hotel, Genoa. 



Appendix B. — Application to the prefect of the province of Genoa for permis- 
sion to reinore the remains of .fames Smithson to the United States, tmth a 
copy of the decree penniftinf/ sin-h reinoral. 

[Translation.] 

Genoa. December 29, 1903. 
The undersigned has the honor to request your excellency to grant him per- 
mission to remove frouj Genoa to Washington, United States of America, the 
remains of .fames Smithsou, buried in the English Protestant Cemetery of San 
Benigno, at Genoa. 

With great respect and esteem, the commissioner charged with the same, 

Alexander Graham Bell. 

United States Consulate at Genoa, Italy, 

Genoa, December 29, 1903. 
T, the und<n-signed. consul of the United States of America at Genoa, hereby 
certify that Dr. Al<>x;uider Graham Bell is the person duly authorized by the 
Snnthsoui:in Institution, ct Washington, to take cliargt> of the remains of James 
Smithsou for the iinr|)ose of ti'ans])orting the same to America. 

[seal. I Wn.LiAM Henry Bishoi-. 

Consul of tlie Inited States of Atnerica. 

REPLY TO the AKOVE. 

[Form for authentication of signature.] 

Consular Service. United St.vtes of America, 

Ih'ceniber 2!). 1 90S. 
I. William TIenry Bishop, consul of the United Slates .-it Genoa. Italy. <lt) 
hereby certify that the signature (if the M;irchese Garroui. jirefect of the prov 
ince of (Jenoa. at the foot of the ])aper hereto annexed, is his true and genuine 
signature. m:ide and acknowl(Ml','ed in my itresence. and tliat the said .Marche.se 
Garroui is personally known to me. 

In witness where., f I have hereunto set m\ h:ind and atiixed the seal of the 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OP REGENTS. XXVII 

consulate at (Jciioa. Ilul.w (lio day and yojir iioxt al.ovr wrilten. and of llic 
liidcpendenco of tin- T'liitrd Stales tho one Inindrod and twonty-cislith. 

[SKAL.J Wll.I.IAM HkNKV HiSHOI'. 

Cniisiil nj the United Htates. 
|TrMiislati(Tii of tlio prcfccfs dccn'i-. | 

liOVAI. IMUOFKCTITRE Ol'' (JkNOA. 

The prefect of tlie province, upon tlie demand of Mr. Alexander Grabaui Bell, 
liearin^ in mind tlie certiticate of illness and the extract from the certilicate of 
death relevant, as also the receipt No. 78ti/10(i41 delivered by the tiscal re};ister 
of (lenoa. on this date, for the required payment of the tax for a g;ov(>rnmeniaI 
liennit to i he amount of .".'>(> tire. 

r>e;ii-ing in mind the law concerninii the care of hy^jiene and the pul)lic health 
(•f December 21.*. ISSS. No. r>S4!), series :;. and the rejiulation of mortuary affairs 
of .Inly L'."). 1S!t2: 

l>e<rees that there is ;uithorized, suliject to the observance of the existinj^ 
sanitary re<iuirements. the transportation of the remains of James Smlthson. 
deceased of a malady not contagious, from (ienoa to Washington ( tlnited States 
of America). 

(Jenoa. December 29. 190;'.. 

The iirefect. N. Oarroni. 



Appknoix C.—Coijii of a orHficufc iiuulr bii tlie British connnl-general at Genoa, 
at the request uf tlie iindiiripal hiiredii of lii/</icn<\ statimj that no ohjention 
e.risted on the part of the British eonsalcite-gencral to the removal of the 
remains of James ;:<mitlison. 

[Translation.] 

Consulate-General of Great Britain, 

Qenoa, Deeemlnr SO, lUOS. 
There is not known on the part of this royal consulate-general any reason 
why the representatives of the late Mr. Smith.son, deceased in the year 1829, 
should not remove his body from the cemetery of San Benigno. which has been 
exjiroprh-ited. 

[seal.] William Keene. Consul-deneral. 



Appendix D. — Certificate of the acting mayor of Genoa that all the reqmrements 
of the existing regulations on mortuary matters had been complied with. 

I Form for authentication of signature.] 

Consular Service, United States of America. 

Genoa, Italy, January .'>, IDO.'/. 
I. William Henry Bishoi), c(»nsul of the TTnited States at Genoa. Italy, do 
horei»y certify that the signature of Bernabo Brea. acting mayor at (Jenoa, Italy, 
at the foot of the paper hereto annexed, is his true and genuine signature, made 
and acknowledge in my ])resence, and that the said Bernabo Brea is personally 
known to me. 

In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the 
consulate at Genoa, Italy, the day and year next above written, and of the 
Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-eighth. 
[seal.] William Henry Bishop. 

Consul of the United States. 

ITranslation of tlio mayor's cordticato.] 

City Hall of (iKNOA. Office of Hygiene. 
The mayor certifies that the body of .Tames Smithson has hotm inclosed in two 
coHins. the one of zinc and the otiier of strong wood, and that there liavc been 
observed throughout all the re(iuirements of the existing regul.-iticns on mor 
tuary matters, .articles '-'A, 'A'2. 33. 
<Jenoa. .lanuary 4. 19<)4. 
For the mayor : 

Bebnabo Brea, The Assistant. 



XXVill PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

Ari'KNDix E. — Final crrtificdtr of the Aiiieriraii coi'S'iiJ iiirnt <»i hoard the steamer 
/'r/y/rr.s-.v Irene as she inis about to sail for \eir York. 

CONSITAR SkUVICK. T N ITED STATES OV AMERICA. 

Genoa, Jtaty. 

I. .William Henry Kisbop. United States consul at Genoa, Italy, hereby certify 
that on December .'U, 1008. in my presence and in that of Dr. Alexander Graham 
Bell and six other credible witnesses whose names are of record, the mortal 
remains of .Tames Smithson were exhumed from the English cemetery on the 
beii^hts of San Beniuno. at (4enoa. where they had reposed since his burial in the 
ye.ir 1S2;>, and that they were ])laced. securely sealed, and under Lcuard in the 
mortuary chapel of the said cemetery ; and that, on .lanuary 2, l!)(t4. tbey were 
delivered, ac-ompanied by I^r. Graham Bell and myself, on board the steamer 
Princess Irene, of the North (ierman Lloyd Steamship Company, to be conveyed 
to Washington, D. C, United States of .\merica, l)y Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, 
who had been especially commissioned by the Smithsonian Institution, of Wash- 
iugton, to come to Genoa for that purpose. 

Given on board the steamer Princess Irene, about to sail for New York, this 
7th day of .lanuary. ]!)04. 

[seal.] Willia.m Henry Bishop. 

United States Consul at Genoa, Italy. 



Appendix F. — Letter from Lieut. Commander J. H. Gihhons, C. »S'. Xari/, in 
command of the li. H. H. Dolphin, delivered on hoard the steamer J'rineess 
Irene, notifying your committee of the action of the Navy Department in 
detailiny the I', .s. .s'. Dolphin to convey the remains of James SniitJison from 
New Yorl- to Washin(iton. 

U. S. S. Dolphin. 
New Yorl\ N. Y.. .January 20. 190-'i. 
Sir: 1. I have the honor to inform you that the Navy Department has ordered 

the Dolphin to escort the Princess Irene to her pier at Iloboken, after which she 

is to I'eceive the remains of the late .James Smithson. 

2. The commandant of the navy-yard. New York, will send a tug alongside 
the Princess Irene after she arrives at her pier, and lias made the necessary 
arrangements with the health and custom authorities so that there will be no 
delay in transferring the remains to the Dolphin. 

3. The Dolphin will anchor off the Battery and renuiin there until eai'ly day- 
light of the next day .after the remains have been received on iio.-ird. when she 
will sail for Washington, I). ('. In case you wish to acconiiiany the remains to 
Washington I am authorized to offer you a passage on the Dolpliin. It was the 
intention of the Secretary of the Smithsoni.an Institution, I'rofessor Langley, to 
write to you in regard to this matter, so that you would receive the letter off 
quarantine. 

4. In case tliere are to be any passengers for the tri]) to ^^'ashington it is 
requested that they be on board by midnight of the d.-iy on which the steamer 
arrives. This sbl]) can be connnunicated with by telegraph or telejilione by 
addressing the dock dejiartnient ottice, pier 1. .\orth River, at the I'.attery, 
where there is a comfortable boat landing. .V steam launch will be at this 
landing at in1er\a]s during the day :ind night, the last tri]> leaving the ship at 
11.30 p. m. 

Very respectfully. .1. II. Giiatoxs, 

Lieidenant-Conimander, T'. S. Nary, Commandiny. 
I'rof. .V. Graham Bkli., 

tStcamsfii]) Pri)ieess Irene. 



Appendix G. — Remarks of Mcrainler dralnnu llrll at the fimithsonian Insti- 
tution Jannury 2'), 19U'i. in handiny over lli< remains of .lames Smilhsoiu 
to t^enator Frye as the representalire of llie Hoard of lieyents. toyether n-itli 
the reply of Senator Frye. 



REMARKS OF A. (i. T.EI.L. 



Mr. Senator: I have the honor of handing over to the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution the moi'tal remains of its founder, James Smithson. fellow of the Royal 
Society of London, England, who died in (ieuoa, Italy, on the 2(;tli of .June, 1829. 



rRO('Ki:nTN(;s of tiik boahd of rkofnts. xxix 

For iioarly s('vtMi1.v-liv(> yciirs tlio body of Sniillison has Iniii in an almost 
forgot ten i^ravo in tlic pictuivstiiic little liritisli ci'iiu'tcry on the licifXlits ol San 
B»'iii.i,Mi(>. in (JiMKta. ("ity inipi-ovcnicnts have now rendered necessary the e.xpro- 
jniation of the ceniettM-y and the reinnval of the remains: and at the last meel- 
iii.U of the I'.oard of Keiients of the Smithsoinan Institution I was apiioinled a 
connnittee to ai-ran,i,'e for the transfi-r of the hodv of Smithsou to the I'nited 
States. 

lTl>on my arrival in (ieiioa 1 was afforded evei-y jiossihle facility for the 
accom])lishment t)f my mission liy the iirovincial and mnnicipal authorities, by 
His r.ritish Majesty's consul-.ueneral (.Mr. Keene). and hy the connnittee of the 
I'.ritish r.nrial (Jromid Fnnd Association, in which is v(>ste(l the ownership of 
the cemetery, as wt>ll as hy our own consul, ?»Ir. William Henry T.ishop. to 
whom 1 am indebted for invalnal)le assistance. 

On the .'Jlst of I)ecend»er, llKl."!. the toPib of Smithson was opened in my 
I>resence as tlie ropri'sentative of the Smithsonian liistitution, and in the 
I'resenco of the American consul, Mr. Bishop, and six other witnesses. Tho 
lemains of James Snnthson were I'everently raised from the .ijravo and placed 
in a metallic casket, over which the consul of the I'nited States cast the Ameri- 
can tia.ir. while the witnesses stood around with uncovered heads. 

The casket was left in tlu> mortuary chapel of the cemetery — securely sealed 
and under suard — until the 2d da> of .January, 10()4, when it was placed in a 
votWu of stroiiiT wood, as re(iuii-ed i>y Italian law, and was then removed to the 
North (ierman Lloyd steamship rriiicrss Irene, accompained by the .American 
consul and m.vself. 

The steamer left Genoa on the 7th (.f .January ; and upon arrival in the 
T'nited States the remains of J.-imes Smithson wei'e received with national 
honors by direction of the President and of the Secretary of the Navy and the 
Scci-etary of War. 

The remains were transiK)rted to Washington on the IT. s. dispatch lioat 
Ihtlitltiii, and have been escorted to the Sn-ithsonian Institution l)y I'luted 
States cavalr.v. 

.\nd now, IMr. Senator, my mission is ended, and 1 deliver into your hands, as 
the representative of the Board of Iteiijcmts of the Snnthsonian Institution, the 
remains of this j^reat benefactor of the United States. 

REMARKS Ol' SENATOR hUYK. 

Sir: The Smithsonian Institution receives with profound gratitude the 
remains of its distin.^uished founder. I'rovidenee, every now and then, seems 
to place in the world a man and inspires him with a purpose to elevate his 
fellow-men. Such a man was Mr. Snnthson, the founder of this Institution. 
The spirit, sir, which promi)ted you to such earnest endeavor, resultinj; as it 
did in takin.i,' these remains from thi-ir restin.s; place in a country foreifjn to 
him and foreiirn to us, and brimriuLr them here, where for so maiiy years w(> 
have en.ioyed the rich fruits of his splendid benefaction, your countrvmen will 
ai>preciate. His gravi' here will be an incentive to earnest, faithful, wise, and 
discreet endeavor to carry out his lofty purposes, and, sir. it will be to our 
people a sacred spot while the Republic endures. 



Appendix II. — Reixiri of Mr. Gilbert H. Groftreiior. M. A., concerning the cor- 
respondence irhieJt resiiUcd in tlie eooperation of I he I nited f^fofea Clorern- 
inenf in trttn.-tportinfi the remains of James Sniillison from \c/r )'orl- to the 
Smithsonian Institution in M'ushintiton. />. ('. 

lIuBRARn Memoriat, Hale, 
WiishiiKjton, I). C, .lanuanj i-i, 1!)0',. 
Dear Mr. Bell: I beg to submit the following report on arrangements for 
the reception of James Smithson. On January 7 I received the following cable- 
gram from .vou : 

"Genoa, ./aniiari/ 7. I'jii.'i. 
" Gilbert Grosvenor, 

'"Memorial Building, Sixteentli and .][. Washi)n/lon. />. <'. 
"We bring Smithson's remains steamship Princess Irene, touching Naples 
and (Jibraltar. Sco Henderson, llitt, I.angley about f(n-nialilics of landing and 
transfer to Washington. 

" (Ju.viiAM Bell." 



XXX PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 

I tbereupoii ((Uisultod with Mr. Langley who assured me that all foriualities 
were hein;; arransjced so that the remains might be admitted into this country 
without delay. On Sunday, January 10. I cabled to you at Gibraltar as 
lollows : 

" Bell. J'rincrfi.s Jrciic, GihraJtar. 

"Congratulations. Formalities arranged. 

" Gilbert Grosvenor." 

On Monday. J.anuary 11, I received the following cablegram from you : 

" Gibraltar, Janiiari/ 11. 1901). 
"Gilbert GKOsvE^"^OR, Washington. D. C. 

" Hope Smithson's remains will be received with as much honor as those of 
John Howard Payne. Notify liie at quarantine what to expect. 

" Graham Bell." 

Upon receipt of this message I called upon Dr. S. P. Langley and expressed 
your desire that suitable honors be rendered James Smithson upon the arrival 
of the remains in this country. I then addressed the following letter to the 
Pi-esident of the Ignited States, Hon. Theodore Roosevelt : 

" HinBAKi) Memorial Hall. 
''WasJiiiifftoii. D. ('.. ./an nary 11. IDOJ/. 
"Sib: The remains of James Smithson. the founder of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, are now being brought to the United States by Dr. Alexander Graham 
Bell, one of the Regents of the Institution. The remains left Gibraltar this 
morning on the steamer Princess Irene, and are due in New York about the 20th 
instant. Dr. Graham Bell has cabled me urging that the remains be received 
with as nuich honor as those of John Howard Payne. It would seem most 
appropriate that a Government vessel, a ship of war. a revenue cutter, or even 
a tug, be detailed to meet the I'rinress Irene when she enters the harlwr of New 
York and receive Smithson's remains. This official tribute from the American 
nation seems due a man who bequeathed his entire fortune to a people whom he 
had never seen. As the time is urgent I take the liberty of addressing you 
directly, rather than through oHicial channels. I would respectfully beg, in 
case your honor does not deem it .^tting to order detailed a vessel to welcome 
Smithson in the harl)or of New York, that I be so informed at once, in order 
th.'it jirivate plans for paying honor to this illustrious benefactor may then be 
carried out. 

" I beg to remain, most i-espec(fully, 

"Gilbert H. (Jrosvenor. 
" Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, 

"President of the VnHe(t States.'' 

On Tuesday, January 12, I received word from the Secretary of the Navy that 
my request for a Mar ship had been approved by the President, and I was asked 
to send a formal ai)i)lication for the detail of the Dolphin. I thereupon for- 
warded the following application: 

"January 12, 1904. 
" Sir: Pursuant to the request from the Secretary of the Navy. I beg herewith 
formally .nnd respectfully to itetition that the Dolphin be det:iil'ed to receive the 
remains of James Smithson, the founder of the Smithsonian Institution, in New 
York Harbor and convey them to WashingtoiL 1 beg to remain, 
■' :Most respectfully, 

" Gilbert H. Grosvenor. 
" Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, 

"President of the United States, Washington." 

The Dolphin was thereupon detailed and ordered to New York. 

On January IS I called upon the Chief of Staff, Lieut. Gen. Adna R. Chaffee, 
and reipiested a military escort to receive the remains of James Smithson when 
they rcMcbed this city, and on Jainiary P.) forwarded llie following formal 
aiii)lication : 

" Jani'arv is. 1!»(»4. 

"Sir: The remains of James Smithson. the founder (if the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, will reach Washington on Friday or Saturd.ay of this week. The remains 



PROCKKDINCS OF THK liOAUD OK HIUiKN'IS. XXXI 

are to bo broujibt froui Now York on tbo DoliJhiii. whioh was ospocially dotailod 
liy tbo Sooretary of tbo Navy to i)n)cood to Now York, rocoivo tboui from tlio 
I'rinrrss I rciic.'wUou tbo bitlor sbiji anMvod from (loiioa. atul l)rin.t.' tlioiii to 
\Vasbiii.i,'ton. WbiMi tlio Ihilpliiii roncbos Ibis city tbo rouiaiiis will bo coiivoyod 
witboiit coi-oiiioiiy t<> «>ak Hill Couiotory. wboro tboy will bo dopositoil until 
action is taken as to tboif liiial disposition. It would soom most appropii-'ito 
tbat an oscort of ~>0 or KK) cavalrymen bo dotailod to accompany tbo remains 
from tbo dock to tbo cemotory. I bavo tbo bonor to rospoctfnlly rocpiost, 
tborofori', tbat an oscort bo dotailod for tins i>nrposo. For your information I 
botr to inclose a coi)y of tbo letter addressed to tbo President, wbicb was 
approved by him and "led to the detail of tbo Dnlphiit. 
" Very respectfully. 

"(IlI.HKRT II. GUOSVENOR. 

" Lieut, (ten. .\.ona It. Chaffee, U. S. Army. 

"War Department. Waxlniu/tdii. I). ('." 

On January 20 the followinc; letter was roceixcd from (Jonoral Cbaffoe, stat- 
inir tbat tlio military <^scort*lia(l been detailed: 

"January 19, 1!)()4. 
"Sir: I have just received your note of January 1!>. requesting an oscort of 
cavalry for the remains of Mr. James Smitbson, tbo founder of tbo Smith- 
sonian Institution, wbicb are to arrive, as you say, on Friday or Saturday of 
this week on the Dolphin. I have instructed the commanding ofiicer of Fort 
Myer to bold in readiness an escort of 50 men, proi)orly officered, and an 
artillery caisson to convoy the remains. In order to give further direction in 
this matter to avoid delay and to insure promptness, it will be nec(>ssary for 
you to advise me of the time and pli\ce the escort should bo directed to report 
"to receive tbo remains. Will you please make certain that I am informed of 
this nnitter at least twelve hours in advance'.' 

" \evy respectfully, Adna R. Chaffee. 

" Ijlfntiinint-deneral. Chief of Staff. 
" Mr. (in,BERT H. Grosvenor, 

"Editor \<itiona1 iU-o(jrapliic Magazine. 

"Ifiihlxird Mciitnrial Hall. Si.rirciilli (tnd M streets. 

"Washinf/ton, D. C." 

For your information. I sent yon .January lO, rare of the (piarantine olbcer, 
the following telegram : 

" Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, 

"Passenger on Board Steamship Princess Irene. 

"Arriving New York January 20: 
Dolphin will meet Irene, tire salutes, and accompany to dock. The Dolphin 
will receive Suntbson and carry to AVasbington. You can come by Dolphin or 
not. You are reelected Regent. Langley and Daisy moot you at dock. Elsie 
and I sorry we can not. 

" Gilbert H. Grosvenor." 

And on January 20 a second message, as follows : 

" Dr. Alexanoer Graham P.ki.l, 

"Passenger on Hoard Steamship I'rineess Irene, 

" Arriring Xew York Januarn 20: 
" Have arranged military oscort and caisson moot Smithson on arrival here. 

" Gilbert H. Grosvenor." 

Letters to General Chaffee and Admiral Taylor follow : 

" January 22, 1904. 

" Sir : I bog to acknowledge with thanks your courteous favor of the 19th 
instant. Admiral Taylor. Chief of the Bureau of Navigation, informs me that 
bo has already sent you word that James Smithson will leave the navy-yard 
Monday morning, January 25, at 10 o'clock. AVith much appreciation of your 
courtesy in this matter. I beg to remain, 
" Very respectfully, 

"(JlLBERT II. GRO.SVENOR. 

"Lieut, (ion. Auna R. Chaffee, U. S. Army, 

" \\dr Department. Wasliington, />. C." 



XKXll PROCEEDINGS OE THE BOARD OE REGENTS. 

" January 22. l!Ht4. 

"Sir: 1 wish lo thank yoil most i-oi-dinlly tor ymw courtesy in tho matter of 
the mai-iiic Lxmird for James Smithsou. llu- foiintler of the SiuithHoniau 
Institution. 

■' Vnurs. very rcsiu'ctfnlly, 

" GlI.iaOKT 11. (iKOSVKNOR. 

" Uear-Admiral II. I'. Tayioi!. V. S. Navy, 

"Chief of liiircati of Xarif/dHnii. Narif Dcpartincitt, Wtisliiin/ton, D. f." 

Tlie followinji letters from Admiral Taylor give the details of the arran.iie- 
nients at the navy-yard: 

" Januaey 22, 11»04. 

"Sir: I have the honor to inform yon that instructions have been sent to 
the commandant of the navy-yard, Washin^'ton, to arrange for the deharkatiou 
of the remains of the late James Smithsou, i-sii.. from the V. S. S. Doliihiu, 
about 9.30 o'clock, Monday morning, the 2r>th instant, and for their escort, with 
ceremony, from alongside the ship to the navy-yard gate, where they will be 
transferi-ed to the custody of an escort of army troops. A copy of the said 
instructions is inclosed. 

" ^'ery respectfully, H. C. Taylor, 

"Acting Secretary. 
" The President. National Gkooraphic Society, 

" W'a.sIiintJtou, I). ('." 

" Navy Department. 
" Washington, I). C. Janmny .LI. lOOJf. 
" Sir: You will please give the necessary instructions for the remains of the 
late James Smithsou, es(i., to be landed from the U. S. S. Dolphin, about 9..50 
o'clock, Monday morinng, the 25th instant, and escorted with ceremony to the 
navy-yard gate, where, punctually at 10 o'clock, the remains will be delivered 
to the escort of army trocips which will be in waiting outside the gate. 

" As large a force of marines as may be availal)le will be i)araded as an escort, 
the Commandant of the Marine ('(»rps having been directed to send a detach- 
ment and the Marine P>and to report to you for this purpose. The customary 
detail of navr.l enlisted men as body bearers will i)e made, these to accom])any 
the rem.-iins until the transfer to the army escort has been effected. 

"The Department desires as many otticers of the station as may be spared 
from their duties to attend the ceremony. Fniform for officers of the Navy 
will be ' Dress,' with or without overcoats, at your discretioiL The Smithsonian 
Institution and the National Geographical Society have been notified of these 
instructions, and you may expect their representatives to be in attendance from 
the begimiing of the ceremony. 

"When the army escort moves otf with the remains, the part taken by the 
Navy in the ceremony will terminate. 

" \evy respectfully, H. G. Taylor. 

"Actnuj decretory. 
"The Commandant of the Navy-Yard, 

" WasJiini/ton, J). G." 
Very truly, yours, Gilbert H. Grosvenor. 

Dr. Alexander Graham P.ell, 

Board of i'cyents. >s'»//7/(.<?o»(Vn( Instil iillni). 

Coniniittec on Hie transfer of the reinnins of 

Janus Siiiithson to tlie I nited States. 



Appendix I. — Acknoirlediinienf of (lorernnienl eoiirtcslc.'< made hy j/oiir com- 
mittee to the l'resi<lent of the I nited .stales and to ttie Secretary of the Xary 
and Secretary of War. 

New York, January 21, WO'i. 
Mr. pRi':sn)K.\T : I h.nve the honor to announce the safe arrival in the United 
Stat(>s of the rem.iins of James Smithsou. founder of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tioiL by steamer I'rincess Irene, and to thank you for detailing the Dol/ihin to 
convey the remains to W:isbingtoiL 

Grajiam Bell. 
Rvyeitt in Charge of Remams;-. 
The ['resident o:' the United States. 

While House, Wasliinyton, I). ('. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOAliD OK KECF.NTS. XXXIII 

!.">.'!I CoN.NIXTlCUT AVKNUK, 

WdxIiiiKjton, I), v., Junininj ,i.'). WO'/. 
My Dear Siu : At tlio last luccliiij; of tlio Hoard of R('.;;«>iits of tlio Siiiitlisoniaii 
Institution I was a|)i)ointiMl a conuniltcc cliarticd witii tlic duty of i)rin;;in;i to 
the Institution tlie body of its distinj^'uished founder, James Sniillison. 

As sueh eonnnittee allow nie to express my deep indebtedness to you for the 
assistanee rendered by the Xavy of the United States in transjJortiTi^ the 
remains from Xew York to Washinijton and for the assistance rendered by the 
Army in eonipletin.ir the transi)ortation to the Smithsonian Institution. 
Yours, respeetfully, 

Al.KXANDKK (il{AH\M liKr.I,. 

licf/ciit of tlir Sniithxoiiiuii Institution. 
The President ov the United States, 

White House. 



13ol Connecticut Avenue, 
Wasliiiigto)!, 1). v., January 2o. IDO.'i. 
My Dear Sir: I hep to inclose for your information a copy of a note I have 
addressed to the President of the United States exi)ressing my sincere appre- 
ciation of the assistance rendered by the Xavy in trausportinii the remains of 
the founder of the Smithsonian Institution from Xew York to the navy -yard in 
Washin.i^ton. D. ('. 

Yours, respectfully, Alexander Graham Bell, 

lieyent of the t'^niithsouian Institution. 
The Secretary of the Navy, 

ISlavy Department. 



^?,'.^\ Connecticut Avenue, 
WasJiim/ton, D. C, January 25, 190',. 
My Dear Sir : I beg to inclose for your iufornuition a copy of a note I have 
addressed to the I'resident of the United States expressing my sincere ai)i)re- 
ciation of the assistance rendered by the Army in transporting to the Sunth- 
sonian Institution the l)ody of its founder, James Smithson. 
Yours, respectfully, 

Alexander Graham Bell. 
Regent of the Sinitlisonian Institution. 
The Secretary ok War, 

War Department. 



Appendix J. — statement of e,rpens< s incurred in the reinorat of tJir remains of 
James Sniitlison to tlie United States (supported liy rouehers. irhieh hare been 
handed to the Hecretary of the Smithsonian Institution). 

Lire. 

Exportation tax 3(i0. 00 

Undertaker's bill 81.85 

Mason's bill 1^7.00 

Gardener's bill, with his assistants . G9. 00 

Freight to Xew York from cemetery 430.00 

Total 957. 85 

SM 1904 HI 



KEPOirr OF THE EXErUTIVK COMMITTEE OF THE BOAllD OF 
RE(;EiNTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 

For the Year Ending Jxtne 80, 1904, 



To the Board of Regcnffi of the Smithsionum Im^tHvt'ion : 

Your executive counnittee respectfuHy submits the following report 
ill relation to the funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Con- 
gress, and the receipts and expenditures for the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, the IT. S. National Museum, the International Exchanges, the 
Bureau of Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, and the Astro- 
physical Observatory for the year ending June 30, 1004, and balances 
of former years : 

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 

Condition of the fund Jnlij /, lOOJf. 

The amount of the bequest of James Smithson deposited in the 
Treasury of the United States, according to act of Congress of Au- 
gust 10,'l84(), was $515,100, To this was added, by authority of Con- 
gress, February S, 1<S07, the residuary legacy of Smithson, savings 
from income and other sources, to the amount of $134,831, 

To this also have been added a bequest from James Hamilton, of 
Pennsylvania, of $1,000; a bequest of Dr. Simeon Habel, of New 
York, of $500; the proceeds of the sale of Virginia bonds, $51,500; a 
gift from Thomas G, Hodgkins, of New York, of $200,000 and $8,000, 
being a ])ortion of the residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, and 
$1,000, the accumulated interest on the Hamilton bequest, savings 
from income, $25,000, making in all, as the permanent fund, $937,000, 

The Institution also holds the additional sum of $42,000, received 
upon the death of Thomas (t. Hodgkins, in registered \Vest Shore 
Railroad 4 per cent bonds, which were, by order of this committee, 
under date of May 18, 1804, placed in the hands of the Secretary of 
the Institution, to be held by him subject to the conditions of said 
order. 

XXXV 



XXXVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

tStittciiiciit of rccciiiti and (•.rpcntlitiircs from -JnUj I. li)0.i, to June 30, 190-'f. 

RECEIPTS. 

(ash on liaiul July 1, 1903 $55,507.67 

liiterost on fiiml July 1, 1003 $27,904.17 

Interest on fund January 1, 1904 28, 110.00 

56, 074. 17 

Interest to January 1, 1904, on West Shore bonds 1,680.00 

$113,261.84 

Cash from sales of publications . 353.37 

('ash from repayments, freight, etc 10,328.02 

10, 681 . 39 



Total receipts 123, 943. 23 

EXPENDITURES. 

Buildings : 

Repairs, care, and improvements .f;4, 128. 73 

Furniture and fixtures 467.78 

$4, 596. 51 

General expenses: 

Postage and telegraph 230.74 

Stationery 584.97 

Incidentals (fuel, gas, etc. ) 3,727.45 

Library (books, periodicals, etc.) 4,250.84 

Salaries" 26,383.85 

Gallery of art 84.40 

Meetings 569. 75 

35, 832. 00 

Publications and researches: 

Smithsonian contributions 2,102.85 

Miscellaneous collections . 4,940.74 

Reports 1,433.13 

Special pul)lications 201.70 

Explorations 2, 176.00 

Researches__ 3,486. 71 

Apparatus 182. 95 

Ilodgkins fund 12,62.5.89 

Bell & Kidder fniid 1.925.50 

29. 075. 47 

Literary and scientific exclianges 7,790.92 

77, 294. 90 

Balance unexpended June 30, 1904 46, 648. .33 

« In addition to the above $26,383.85, paid for salaries under general expenses, 
$10,790.18 were paid for services, viz: $3,928.94 charged to building account, 
$179.50 to furniture and fixtures account. $2,804.21 to researches account. 
$2,713.44 to library account, $164.13 to reports account, and $999.96 to Ilodgkins 
fund account. 



REPORT OF TI!F. KXF(M'TTVF, ("OMMITTFF,. XXXVII 

The cash received tVoni tlie sale of |)nl)lica(i()iis, from repayments, 
freights, and otlier sources is to he credited to the items of ex[)en(li- 
tur(^ as follows: 

Siiiitlisonian coiitriliutions . .f 44. 77 

Miseellaiioous colleetioiis 2!)4. 5(1 

lloports 14.04 

ifanrt. 37 

Exclianges 0, 71S. 83 

Incidentals 4UJ). (!9 

]:x|)U>r:itions 200. 00 

."^lO. 0X1. .39 

The net expenditures of the Institution for the year ending June ;)0, 
15)04, were therefore $C)(;,(*)13.51, or $1(),(kS1.:]9 less than the gross 
expenditures, $77,294.90, as above stated. 

All moneys received by the Smithsonian Institution from interest, 
sales, refunding of moneys temporarily advanced, or otherwise, are 
deposited with the Treasurer of the United States to the credit of the 
Secretary of the Institution, and all payments are made by his checks 
(»n the Treasurer of the United States. 

Your committee also presents the following statements in regard to 
api)ropriations and expenditures for objects intrusted by Congress to 
ihe care of the Smithsonian Institution: 

Drtiiih'iJ ■siatciiiriit of ilishHrscuiciits from api)r(>itri(ili())>f< ((Diniiilted hi/ Coiit/rcss 
to the varc of the Siiiithsoiiian Institution for the fiscal ijear rmliitfj ./inic .30, 
HHI'i. and from liaJancc^ of former i/enrs. 

INTERNATIONAL EXCIIANOKS, SAIITIISONIAN INSTITUTION, 1004. 

KECEIPTS. 

Appropriated by Congress for tiie fiscal year ending .June .30, 1904, 
" for expenses of the system- of international exchanges bet^^ een 
the United States and foreign countries under the direction of the 
Smithsonian Institution, including salaries or compensation of all 
necessary emi)Ioyees and the purchase of necessary books and pe- 
riodicUls" (sundry civil act, .^farch .3, 1903) .$26,000.00 

DISItURSEMENTS. 

[From .luly 1. IJiO.S, to .luno ;5M, 1004.] 

Salaries or compensation : 

1 acting curator, 12 months, at .$22.5 ,$2,700.00 

1 chief clerk, 12 months, at .$1S.3.:J3 2.199.90 

1 clerk. 12 months, at .$150 1. Sou. 00 

1 clerk, 12 months, at .$12.5 l,.".0O. 00 

1 clerk, 11 months, at .$1U;.G() 1 1, 2S:i 2(5 

1 clerk, 12 months, at .$80 9(50. 00 

1 clerk. 12 numths, at .$5.5 000.00 

1 stenographer. 12 months, at .$100 1.200.00 



XXXVIir REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Salaries or coni])oiisation — Continued. 

1 packer, 11 uiontlis, at $i")5 $005.00 

1 workman, 11 months, at $G0 000.00 

1 messenger, months, at iSiO :>00. 00 

1 messenger, 12 months, at $30 .^(JO. 00 

1 messenger, 12 months, at $25 ,300.00 

1 agent, months, at $75 4,50.00 

1 agent, months, at $15 00.00 

1 acting agent, 2 months, at $!)1.()0§ 183.33 

Total salaries or compensation 15,311.55 

General expenses : 

Books $81.11 

Boxes 1,222.00 

Freight 5,048.97 

Postage 404.00^ 

Supplies 108.91 

Stationery 548.51 

8, 013. 50 

Total tlishursements $23, .325. 05 

Balance .Tuly 1, 1904 2.074.95 

INTERNATIONAL EXCIIANlilOS, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, lOOX,. 

Balance .Tuly 1. 19(i3. as per last report $1,822.14 

Salaries or comi)ensation : 

1 agent. C. months, at $1.5 $90.00 

Total salaries or compensation .$90.00 

General expenses : 

Boxes 335.44 

Freight.- 1, 294. 22 

Stationery 72.28 

Supplies .70 

1,702.70 

Total (lishui-scments 1. 792. 70 

Balance .Inly 1. 1904 29.44 

I\TEKN.\ rioX.M, lOXCII.VXCKS, S.M ITIISOXIAX IXSTITI'TIOX. 1!M)2. 

P.al;incc .Tuly 1. liM).".. as pci' last I'cport .^0. 88 

I'.al;uicc carried, under jirovisions t>l' IJ(>\-ised St.atutes, section .■'.(•9(i, by llie 
Ti-easury I )ei)art iiicnt to the crcdil of the surplus fund .lunc .".(i. l;»ol. 

AMKKK'AX KTIIXOI.OCV, S.M I'll ISOX I .\ X I XSIM Tl'TIOX. 1!»04. 

KI'XF.IPTS. 

Apitropriation hy Congress for the fiscal year ending .Tune .30, 1904, 
" for <()iitinuing ethnological researches among the American In- 
dians, under the direction of liic Suuthsonian Institution, includ- 
ing salaries or comi»ensation ol' all necessary employees, and the 



REPORT OF THE EXECTTl VK COMMITTKK. XXXIX 

purclmso of nocossnry books nnd pcriodicnls. $l(i.(H)ii. of wliidi sum 

not OXCOOdill.U; $l.r)(l(l in;l.\ lie used Inl- l-Cllt of 1 Mli Idi ll.i,' " ( suiidrv 

civil act. M:in-1. .-.. \W.\)'- flO. 000. 00 

DlSIU'liSKMKNTS. 

Salaries or coniponsation : 

! chief of Imrcaii. 1 nionlhs. at .^f:'.?." : s iiKHitlis. at 

^:\:]:\.:\:^ ^ Ififi. 04 

1 ctlinolo,i,'ist in cliar^'c, 1 month, at $333.33 333.33 

1 cthnolo,i,'ist. months, at .1:200 1,800.00 

1 ctlniolo,i,'ist. :'. months, at .$lti(i.r,T ; S months, at $200- 2, 100. 01 

1 ethnologist. 4 months, at .flC.C.Cw ; S months, at .1:125_ 1, OOfi. 08 

1 ethnologist. 12 months, at $133.33 1,599.90 

1 ethnologist. S months, at $12.") 1,000.00 

1 ethnologist, 12 months, at $12.-> 1,500.00 

1 assistant ethnologist, 4 months, at $75 : 4 months, 

at $100 WO. 00 

1 ethnologic assistant. 3 months, at $100 .300.00 

1 assistant, t! months, at $125 750.00 

1 illustrator. 12 months, at $l(t0.07 2,000.04 

1 editor, 12 months, at $100 1,200.00 

1 assistant editor, months 2 days, at $100 000.45 

1 assistant editor, 05 days, at $3 1^.5. 00 

1 clerk. 3 months, at $125 :'"•''>• W 

1 clerk. 12 months, at $100 1,200.00 

1 clerk. 3 months days, at $100 ; S months, at .$90___ 1, 040. 35 

1 clerk. 12 months, at $100 1,200.00 

1 clerk. 12 months, at $75 900.00 

1 stenographer and tyi)e\vriter. 34 days, at $00 <>7. 44 

1 stenographer and typewriter. 2A months 14 days, at 

• $50 l-^"•'^'' 

1 stenographer, li months 14 days, at $50 08. 33 

1 tyi)ewriter, 5* months 10 days, at $50 301. 14 

1 skilled laborer, 12 months, at $00 720.00 

1 messenger. 7 months 3 days, at $50 355. 17 

1 messenger. 5 months, at $50 -•'>^- W 

1 uH^ssenger. 4 months 11 days, at $55 240. SO 

1 laborer. 4 months, at $00 ; 2 months 8 days, at $50__ 352. 90 

1 laborer. 12 months, at $45 540.00 



Total salaries or comi'cns.-ition 2i.710. 20 

General expenses : 

Books ..__ - ^1|_'"-!'-' 

Drawings and illustrations .59.20 

Eh'ctricity ^- 155.04 

Freight :nid h:iuling i 180. (;4 

Furniture 131.8.'. 

Manuscript 1,880.30 

jNIiscellaneous •* — '• '•* 

Postage, telegraph, and tclcplinne 4.".. 18 

Printing and binding 1.59.54 

Rental 1,375.00 



XL REPORT OK THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

(Jt'iioral exiionscs — rontiiuied. 

Speci;!] services $719.25 

Specimens 995.11 

Stationery ',V2ij.7i] 

Supplies . 4.'.5. 43 

Travel and lielcl expenses 8, .%3. 43 

$10, 37(5. 80 

Total (lishiirsenients $.38,093.00 

Balance .Inly 1, 1904 1,906.94 

AMPmiCAN ETriNOLOOY. S.MITMSONIAN INSTITUTIOX. 1!)().'5 

Balance July 1. 1!>().">. as per la.st rei)ort .>);:;, 4S9. 99 

DISBURSEMENTS. 

General expenses : 

Books and blndin.s; $301.5(5 

Drawing and illustrations : 65.00 

Freight and hauling 239.07 ' 

Furniture 21.50 

Lighting 93.18 

Miscellaneous 39. 73 

I'ostage, telegraph, and t(»lephone 22.77 

vPuhlications 270. ()7 

Rental 125.00 

Special services 52. 50 

Stationery 493. 98 

Sui)plies , 88. 11 

Travel and field expenses !.__11 575.65 

Total dishnrsenients 2,388.12 

Balance .Inly 1. 1904 1.101.87 

AMERICAN K/riIXOI,(K!V, SMITIISONI AX IXSTITI'TIOX, 1002. 
Balance .July 1, l!io:!. as per last ivport . $220.77 

niSItURSE.MENTS. 

(General expenses: 

Books .S14. 58 

Freight 7.25 

Miscellaneous 14. 74 

Supplies 10. 1;! 

Stationery 4:;. 23 

Travel 1 ^ 124.00 

Total dishnrsenients , 213. 03 

lialance C. ,s4 

Balance carried. und(>r provisions of Revised Statutes, section .3090, hy the 
Treasury Department to the credit of the suri»lus fund .June 30, 1904. 



REPORT OF TIIF. FA'KCT^TIVK COMMTTTKK. \LI 

NATIoNAl- MISl'-IM FKIlSIMtNATH >\ ol" ( '( (1 ,1 .IK'I' loXS. 10O1. 

iiKcKirrs. 

Aiipmiiriation by Coii^'i'i'ss \'ov llic liscnl yc'ir cndiiii,' .luiic I'.d. I!t0|, 
'■ for (•(inliiiuiiiu tlu- pi'csci-vation, cxhiliitioii, ;iih1 iiicr(';is(> of the 
collections from survcyiii:; .-ind cxplorln.ii expeditions of th(> (lov- 
ernnient. nnd from other sonrces. indiulin;; siilaries or comiiensa- 
tion of all necessary employees, .fil.SO.dOO. of which sum .^f.l.ftOO may 
lie used for necessary (lra\vin.i;s and illustrations for i)ul)lications 
of the National Mvisenm and all other necessary int-idcnittil ex- 
penses" (sundry civil act. March :\ 190.",) .$180,000.00 

EXPENniTIlRKS. 

I .Tuly 1. I'.x*:',. (() .Imic :'.o. T.tot.] 

Salaries or compens.-itiou jpitJO. T.'U). ."'.(i 

Si)ecial services 1. 608. 2.") 

Total salaries and services .'P102. 338. fil 

.Miscellaneous : 

Suiiplies . ."i.CiGO. 11 

Stationery 1.440. :',1 

Freit,'ht and cartage l.()2(i. .30 

Travelinsi exjienses 1.740. (52 

Drawings and illustrations 1,053.97 

Total miscellaneous 11,521.40 

Total expenditun> to .Tune .•'.0. 1904 173,800.01 

Balance .July 1, I'.tol. to meet outst.-inding liabilities 6.139.99 

Aiial!/f<is of (■.rjiriKlit iircs for .s-«/«r/r.s' or coiiiitrjisfifio)!. 

f.Tuiy 1. luo:;. to .Uww :;(•, I'.ioi.i 
Scientific staff: 

1 assistant secretary. 12 months, at $2.".S..33 $.3,099.96 

1 head curator. 12 months, .it .^291. ('.6 3,499.92 

1 head curator, 12 months, at $291.6() .3,499.92 

1 head curator, 11 months 26 days, at .f291.6r, 3. 4,".2. 88 

1 curator. 12 months, at -flOO 1.200.00 

1 cui-ator, 12 months, at .^200 2.400.00 

1 curator. 12 mou.ths. at $200 2,400.00 

1 curator. 11 months i:'. days. :it .$200 -_ 2.320.00 

1 ciu-ator. actln- 2 months 1.", days, at .$200 .-.00.00 

1 curator, assistant. 12 months, at $l.-)0 1. 800,00 

1 curator, assistant. 12 months, at $150 1.800.00 

1 curator, assistant, 12 months, at $150 1,800.00 

1 curator, assistant, 12 months, at $150 1,800.00 

1 curator, assistant, 12 months, at $1.50 1,800.00 

1 curator, assistant, 12 months, at $l.-.0 1,800.00 

1 ciir.itor, assistant. 12 months, at $125 1,. 50(1.00 

1 curator, assistant. 12 months, at $133.33 1.. 599. 96 

1 curator, assistant, 12 months. ;it $11t;.66 --^ - 1,:!99. 92 

1 curator, .nssistant. 12 months, at $110.(;(; l.:;99. 92 

1 curator, second assistant. 12 months, at $100 1.200.00 



XLII REPORT OF TTIE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Sciontitic staff — ContiJUied. 

1 curator, assii-tant, 9 montlis 35 days, at $133.33 .$1.2G6. G3 

1 cunitor, assistant. :> montlis. at $110.0(i 340.08 

1 curator, assistant, 2 months 15 days, at $133.33, 

$333.32; (i months 15 days, at $100, $650 083. 32 

1 aid, 12 months, at $100 1,200.00 

1 aid, 3 months, at $100 ' 300. OO 

1 aid. 12 months, at $83.33 999. 90 

1 aid. 12 months, at $75 000.00 

1 aid, 12 months, at $60 720.00 

1 aid, 6 montlis, at $45 270. 00 

1 aid. 12 months, at $83.33 999. 90 

1 aid, 12 months, at $83.33 999 90 

.1 aid. 2 months 15 days, at $50 125. oO 

1 aid, 12 months, at $100 _• 1,200.00 

1 aid, 12 months, at $50 GOO. 00 

1 aid, 9 months 24 days, at $83.33 814. 48 

1 aid, 9 months 15 days, at $100 948.30 

1 aid, 12 months, at $50 600. 00 

1 aid, 2 months 15 da.vs, at $100 250. 00 

1 assistant, 1 month 25 days, at $40 72. 26 

1 assistant, 1 month, at $60 60.00 

1 assistant, 3 months, at $40 120.00 

1 custodian. 1 month 10 days, at $150 198.30 

Preparators : 

1 jihotographer, 12 months, at $175 2,100.00 

1 modeler. 12 months, at $100 1.200.00 

1 osteologist, 12 months, at $00 1, ogo. 00 

1 plant mounter. 1 month, at $40 40. oo 

1 preparator, 3 months, at $55 165.00 

1 preparator, 10 months 9 days, at $60 617. 42 

1 preparator, 2 months 27 days, at $40 116. 00 

1 preparator, 55 days, at $50 90_ 22 

1 preparator, 23 da.vs, at $50 .38_ 33 

1 preparator. 3 months, at $90 270. 00 

1 preparator. 12 months, at $80 960.00 

1 ])reparator, 12 months, at $100 1,200.00 

1 iireparator, 12 months, at $70 840.00 

1 preparator, 1 month (i days, at $50 00. 00 

1 preparator. 2 months, at $50 100.00 

1 |ircp;u':i1or. 12 months, at $60 720.00 

1 prei);ii-ator. :\ months, at $85, $255; 1,048 hours, at 

at .-.<! cents, .i;.-.24 779. oo 

1 prepjii'atoi', 12 months, at $45 540.00 

1 in-eparator, 12 months, at $50 Odd. 00 

1 prcparatoi', 1 months 27 days, at $75 .•',(',.-). .32 

1 |>rci»ar;itor, months 15 days, at $85 807. 50 

1 prepar.Mtor. months 12 days, at $40 .•!7(;. oo 

1 preparator, 12 months, at $00 l.OSO. 00 

1 assistant preparator. .". months, at $40 120. 00 

1 taxidermist. 5 months, ;it $60 300. 00 

1 ta.xideruiist. 12 months, at $100 1,200.00 

1 taxidermist (chief), 12 months, at $125 1, 500. 00 



$54. 250. 81 



17,264.79 



REPORT OF rilE EXECUTIVE COMIVI I 'FTEi:. XLIII 

Cloricnl stuff: 

1 ndiiiiiiistrntivc nssistaiit, IL' nioiidis. ;it -flJ'.ll.dC) $:'.. ID!*. 02 

1 editor, TJ iiioutlis, jit $l(i7 ^: 12, (»(t4. (K) 

1 editorial assistant, 10 months 7 days, at .$l.'i3.33 1, 'Mil. 41 

1 chief of division, 12 months, at !)!200 2, -KHi. 00 

1 re,i,'istrar, 12 months, at $107 2, 004. 00 

1 dishnrsin.u clerk, 12 months, at !j;il().07 1,400.04 

1 assistant librarian. 12 months, at .f!133.33 1, .7.1!). !)G 

1 liiiance clerk, 12 months, at $125 1, ,7)0. 00 

1 proiierty clerk, 12 months, at $90 1, OSO. 00 

1 stenographer, 12 months, at .$00 1. OSO. 00 

1 stenographer, S months 27 days, at $17.') 1, ;">(;. no 

1 stenoa;rai)her and typewriter. (! months IS days, at 

$(iO ^ 304. 84 

1 stenographer and typewriter, 1 month 7 days. 

at $G0 1_ 7:-!. 81 

1 stenogr.-ipher and tyj)ewriter, 9 months 3 days, 

at $00 540.00 

1 stenographer and typewriter, 12 months, at $S3.3:i_ 000. 00 
1 stenographer and typewriter, 4 months 1.") days, 

;it $00 270.00 

1 stenographer and typewriter, 5 months S days. 

at $50 : 2(>2. 00 

1 stenographer and typewriter. 1 month 20 days. 

at $60 no. .32 

1 stenographer and typewriter, 1 month 42 days, 

at $50 110.00 

1 stenographer and typewriter, 1 month 18 days, 

' at $50 70.03 

1 stenographer and typewriter. months 14 days, 

at $00 387.10 

1 stenographer and typewriter. 20 days, at $50 33.33 

1 stenographer and typewriter. 31 days, at $60 61.42 

1 stenographer and typewriter. 1 montii. at $60 (U). 00 

1 stenographer and typewriter, 4 days, at $60 8. 00 

1 stenographer and tyi>ewriter, 3 months 21 days. 

at $65 2.30.03 

1 stenographer and typewriter, 4 months 15 days, 

at $50 22.5. 86 

1 stenographer and typewriter, 7 months, at $75, 

.$.525 ; 5 months, at .$00, .$4.50 07.5. 00 

1 typewriter. 2 months 28 days, at .$45 i:]2. 00 

1 tyiK'writei-. 11 months 20 days, at $65 760.52 

1 tyiiewriter. 12 iiionths, at .$85 1,020.00 

1 tyiicwritei-, 12 months, ;it $70 840.00 

I clerk, 12 months, at $100 1.200.00 

1 <lci-k. 12 months, at .$.35 420.00 

1 clerk. IS days, at .$3 .54.00 

1 clerk, 12 months, at .$60 720.00 

1 clerk. 12 months, at $75 OOO. 00 

1 clei'k. 12 months, at $75 OOO. oo 

1 clerk, 12 months, at $75 000.00 

1 clerk, months, at $.50 .' 1.50.00 

1 cleric, 12 months, at $125 1,.5(»((. oO 



XLIV' REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Clerical staff — Contimied. 

t clerk, 12 months, at $100 .$1,'J00. 00 

1 clerk, 12 nionths, at $00 720.00 

i clerk. 12 months, at $(50 720.00 

1 clerk, 11 months 23 days, at $40 470. (57 

1 clerk, 12 months, at $7") 900. (X) 

1 clerk, 5 months ?.0 days, at $50 298. 81 

1 clerk, 2 mouths 15 days, at $iiO 125. 00 

1 clerk,- 12 months, at $50 600. 00 

1 clerk, 12 months, at $50__ COO. 00 

1 clerk, 12 months, at $50 (!00. 00 

1 clerk, 12 months, at $75 900.00 

1 clerk. .3 months 22 day.s. at $00 222. 58 

1 clerk, 12 months, at $115 1,:',80. 00 

1 clerk, 12 months, at $75 " 900.00 

1 clerk, 6 months, at $125 750.00 

1 clerk. 10 months .31 days, at $55 60.5. 71 

1 clerk, 10 months 15 days, at $40, $420; 1 month 1(5 

days, at $4,5, .$07.58 487.58 

1 clerk, 7 nionths. at $50. $8.50 ; 5 nionths. at $75, $375_ 725. 00 

1 cataloguer. 11 months 7 days, at $(50 (>73, 55 

1 cataloguer, 31 days, at .$40 40.27 

1 cataloguer. 2 months 5 days, at $.50 108.33 

IJuildings and labor: 

1 superintendent, 1 month 11 days, at $250 338.71 

1 general foreman, 12 months, at $122..50 1.470.00 

1 captain of ^Yatch, 12 months, at $00 1, 080. 00 

1 lieutenant of watch, 12 months, at $70 840.00 

1 lieutenant of watch. 12 months, at $70 840.00 

1 watchman, lo months (¥) days, at $55 050.40 

1 watchman, 10 months 52 days, at $60 702.32 

1 watchman, 12 months, at $(50 720.00 

1 watchman, 5 months 15 days, at $(50 330. 00 

1 watchman, 6 months 25 days, at $.55 374. .35 

1 watchman, 7 months 18 days, at $55 419. 14 

1 watchman. 12 months, at $55 660.00 

1 watchman. 1 month 30 days, at $50 98. .39 

1 watchman. 9 months 15 days, at .$(50 570.00 

1 watchman, 12 months, at $60 -720.00 

1 watchman, 12 months, at $(J0 720.00 

1 watchman. 3 months 18 days, at $.55 19(5. 94 

1 watchman, 1 month 25 days, at $55 100.83 

1 watchman, 2 months 3 days, at .$.55 11.5.50 

1 watchman. 5 nionths 15 d.-iys, at .$.5.5, .$:5(i2..50 : (5 

months 10 days, at $(50, $:',9().()S_ (592. .58 

1 watchman. I nionths 17 d;iys. at $55 251.17 

1 watchman, 11 months 21 days, at $55 642.26 

1 watchman, 12 months, at .$.55 6(W. 00 

1 watchman, 3 months 29 days, at $55 218. 17 

1 watchman, 1 month 1(5 days, at $(50 90.97 

1 watclmian, 7 months 15 days, at $55 ^^ 413.45 

1 watchman, 12 months, at $40 480.00 



$47. K57. (50 



HKPoirr OF THE kxiocutive committee. xlv 

I'uildinsxs ;in<l hihoi — < 'oi'liinicd. 

1 wiitcliiiiMii. A iiioudis, at $.'>."■., .*i;"J:J(»; S moiitlis, at 

$(•.(), SISO $700.00 

1 walclinian. 4 monlhs, at $55, $220; S months, at 

$00. $4Sl> TOO. (M) 

1 watclinian. 4 months 4 days, at $55 227.3.'? 

1 watchman. 11 monlhs, at $55 005.00 

1 watchman. 12 months, at $55 OOO. 00 

1 watchman. 12 months, at $60 720.00 

1 watchman. 12 months, at $65 780.00 

1 watclnnan. 12 months, at $55 660.00 

1 watchman. 5 months 'Mn days, at $60 359.03 

1 skiUcd fahoivr. '.» months, at $40 360.00 

1 skilled lahoi-er. 12 months, at .$40 480.00 

1 skilled lahoror, 4 months 29 days, at $60 298. 00 

1 skilled lahorer, 6 months 16 days, at .$.55 .S57. 42 

1 skilled lal)orer. 12 months, at $.55 660.00 

1 skilled lahover. 12 months, at .$.50 600.00 

1 skilled lahover, 311 da.vs, at $1..50 468.00 

1 skilled lahorer, 1 month 26 days, at $50 , 93.06 

1 skillcMl lahorer, 12 months, at $.50 600.00 

1 workman, 312J days, at $1..50 468. 75 

1 lahorer, 4A days, at $1.-50 6.75 

1 lahorer, 314 days, at $1.50 471. 00 

1 lahorer. 19 days, at $1.50 28. .50 

1 lahorer, 12 months, at .$45 .540.00 

1 lahorer, 31.3* days, at $1.50 470. 25 

1 lahorer, 72 days, at $1.50 108. 00 

.1 lahorer. 12 months, at .$40 480.00 

1 lahorer. 5 da.vs. at $1..50 7. ,50 

1 lahorer. 314 days, at $1..50 471.00 

1 lalwrer. 103 days, at $1.75 180.26 

1 lahorer. 314* days, at $1.50 471. 75 

1 lahorer. 77* days, at $1..50 116. 25 

1 lahorer. 72 days, at $1..50 108. 00 

1 lahorer, 30 days, at .$45 _ 45.25 

1 lahorer, 83 days, at $1.50 124. 50 

1 lahorer, 11 days, at $1 H. 00 

1 lahorer. 6 days, at .$40. $7.74; 13 days, at $1..50, 

$19.50 27.24 

1 lahorer, I'.KU days, at $1.-50 474.75 

1 lahorer, 425 days, at $1..50 64. 13 

1 lahorer,.5 days, at $1..50 7. 50 

1 lahorer. 318 days, at $1..50 _ 477. 00 

1 lahorer, 142* days, at $1.75 249.38 

1 lahorer, 1<J5 days, at $1.75, $288.76: 116 days, at 

$1.50. $174 -J'G. 76 

1 laltorer. 12 months, at .$35 420.00 

1 lahorer. 64* days, at $1..50 96.75 

1 lal)orer, .36 days, at $1 36.00 

1 lahorer. .35 days, at $1.50 ,52.50 

1 lahorer. 5 days, at $1..50 7. .50 

1 laborer, 9 months 15 days, at $25 237. .50 



XI, VI 



i{i';i'()iir (»i 



'III'; i';xi';(:iri'i\'i': coim MrrTi'iK. 



Hiiililiii;;s iiiid hilioi- < 'oiif iiiiicil. 
l;ihoi-cr, ."..■'>.'! »l;i.vs. ill .fl.r.d 

liihortT. :;i I (iiiys, jil .t;i.">(>. 

iMlM.rci-. .•'.USA (lii.vs. ill $1.50 

liibon-r, .•'.i:; tlii.vs, at $1.50 .' 

l.'ilM.rcr, I-' I (lis, ill .$10 

l.iliorcr, I I iiK.iillis K; (Iii.vs, .mI .fll.'".. .$.■". 1 7..'"..S ; I.". (|:iys 

.11 .$10. .f-'o 

l;ilM.ivr, |-J iiioiillis, nt .$■!() 

I.il.uivr, ::i I iln.vs, at $l.r.0 

l;ii.ui-ci'. ;■. (liiys, :il $I..'')0 

I:iIh.ivi-. Io iiKiiitiis lio (lay.s, at $40 

l;ili(iicr, ;;i I (lays, at $l.r>0 

lahoriM-, .■511 days, at $1.50 

liiborcr, 20.i days, al .$10 

laborer, I da.vs, at $1.25 

incssciitriM-, I luonllis 15 days, at $-0, $00; 7 iiniiilb^ 

I.-. d;iys, at .$:{.5. $2C.2.50 __ 

mcsscii.ircr. 7 iiioiillis, at $.'50 

in('ss('ii;r('r, .". iikhiIIis .". days, a( $'_'0 
iii('ss<Mi;i('r, ■_' inondis 20 diiys, at $2(L 
mcssciijicr, _' iiidiillis 10 diiys. al $20... _ 

nicsscii.LCcr. 2 moiidis 11 d.a.vs, at .$25 

iiicss('ti,i,'('r, I moiilli 2o days, .-it $20.^ _ 
incsscii.mT, inniillis 2.S days, ill $20 

iiicsscii^cr. 2 diiys. ill $20 

iiicssciij^cr, 5 iiioiilbs, at $20 

iii('SS('ii]LC('i', 2."1 days, a( $20 

iiu'SstMi,t:('i', I iiioiitli I!.", diiys, at .$20 

mcsscii.m'i-. 2 iiitiiillis .".o days, ill $25 

nicssciiucr. I iiKiiidi 20 days, a I $25 

iiicssciiL^tM-, C. Iiioiillis .". diiys, ill $20, $121. !>l; 

.'. moiillis, ill $:!0, $1.50.._ 

iiicssciii^ci-. 12 iiKnillis, at $.'?5 J. ^ 

iiicssciip'i'. 1 iiioulli .■>7 da.vs, ]\t $20 

iiu'ssi'iiijcr. 'M \ diiys. ill $1 

iiicsscii.t^cr. diiys. iit $1 _ 

iii('ss('ii,i,'('r. I iiKiiilli 7 diiys, nt $20 

iiiiiil rarricr, 12 iiioiillis, nt $-45 

ticancr, 12 iiioiilbs, al .$;U> 

clciiiu'r. 2 UKiiitlis ISi diiys, iit $;{() 

riciiiicr. !• iiioullis S5 days, jit $;?5 

(•l(>iiiu'r. 12 moiillis. iit $;!0 

(•b-aiHT. 12 iiKiiitiis. ill .$;{0 

(•leaner. 2 uioiillis 10 days, ill $.'to 
eleilller. 12 moiillis. ;it $:!5 . 
eleiiiier, II iiioiiliis 2S diiys. ill $.".0 

atleudiiul. 12 moiiltis. ill $10 

iitteiidiiiil. 157 diiys, al $1 

alleiidaiil, ."..".5 diiys. al $1..5(i 



$100. .50 
171. 00 
l(i2. 75 
51 I. .50 
ISO. 00 

5:!7. 5S 
ISO. 00 
171. 00 
I.. 50 
120. 20 
•171.00 
171.00 

20. 15 
5. 00 

;;.52. .50 
210. oo 

ci.-.n 
5:!. :\:i 
52. 07 

SS. 00 

;;2. 00 

lOS. 07 

I. ::s 

loo. 00 

1.5.2:; 
-ll.:!5 
7.5. o;5 

'10. (•>(» 

271. Ot 

120. oo 

i::. S7 

.".7. .50 

0.00 

21. .52 
510.00 
.'{(•O. 00 

7S. 50 
ll.-.. M 
.".OO. 00 

;!(;o. 00 
los. 10 
120. 00 

:{57. to 

■ISO. 00 
157.00 
502. 50 



.$12,017. 10 



Toliil services. 



160, 730. 30 



iiKi'oirr (»K THE kxkcutivk com miitkk. xlvii 

NATIOXAI, MISIOIM ritlOSMUVATH )N OK ( •<)1,M;( "I'lONS, l!io:!. 
ItKCKinS. 

r.:il:iiicc as IHT i-cpoi't .Inly 1, IIMI.". .f!!), r.!)7. 20 

l■;x^•l•:^'l>^l I'KKS. 

Siilarios ov coiiipoiisation .fS. 00 

Spofinl stM-viccs 1.182.81 

Total services $1, 1!)0. 81 

Miscellaneous: 

Sui)i)lies 5, 107. OS 

Stationery 1,210. Ki 

Freight and oavtage 582.40 

Travolln;;: expenses 182.90 

Drawings and illustrations 850.72 

Total niiscellniieuus expenditure 8,000.10 

Total e\|ien(iitnre to .Mine :'.(), 1004 9,190.97 

F.alanc(> .Inly 1. 1'.KI4 400.23 

I'KIOSKKVATION OF ('OLLKCTIONS, ]!>():?. 

Total kIiiIciiiciiI of rccciiils (iiid crixjidil urcs. 

[July 1, 1!I01, lo .Iiinc .'iO, 1!)04.] 

RECKIl'TS. 

Approi)riatioM by Congress, March :;. IttOI L $180,000.00 

EXPENUITURICS. 

Salaries or conipensution .'f l(i2, 210. 04 

Special services — 2,283.20 

Total services .$1<;4, 499. 30 

Miscellaneous : 

Drawings and illustrations 2,029.71 

Supplies 8, 139. 07 

Stationery 8,055.35 

Travel 529. 79 

Freight 1,740.55 

Total njiscellaneons cxi>eiiditure 15,100.47 

Total expenditiuv to .June .-'.O, 1;m)4 179.509.77 

Balance July 1, 1904 400.23 



XLVIJI KKPORT OF TJIE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

NATIO.NAI, .MlSIOr^I — I'UKSKlt NATION OK COIil.KCTlONS, 1902. 

Balance as per iviioit July 1, 1903 $159. 16 

KNPENUITt'KES. 

Supplies $74.48 

Freight and cartage 20.04 

Total cxiienditure to Juii." :'M 1904 100.52 

58. G4 
r.alance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the 
Treasury Department to the credit of tlie surplus fund June 30, 1904. 

I'RKSKKVATIOX OK ( 'OLLKCTIONS, 1!)()2. 

Total si ate 1)1 cut of rccctitis diid v.rpriittitureH. 

[July 1, I'.Mil. to luiu' ;;u, 1904.] 

KECKIPTS. 

Apiiro|>riati()M l.y Congress. M;ir.-h :!. 1901 $180,000.00 

E.Xl'KNDITUUES. 
[.July 1, 1901, to June .'io, 1904.1 

Salaries or compensation $1(51,897.99 

Special services 2,255.30 

Total services $104,153.35 

Miscellaneous : 

Drawin.iz;s and illustrations ' — $2,787.83 

Supplies (), 608.47 

Stationery 2,663.02 

Travel 2,021.21 

FnMght 1.707.48 

T()t;il miscellaneous exiu'iiditures 15,788.01 

Total exiKMidilure to June 30, 1904 179,941.36 

Halanc(> 58.64 

NATIONAL INIUSEUM— KUKNITUUE AND FIXTUItES, 1904. 
RECEIPTS. 

Ai)i)roi)rialion I>y Congress for the liscal year ending June 30, 1904, 
for "cases, furniture, fixtures, and ;u>plianfes re<iuired for the 
exhibition and safe-keeping of the collections of the >Jational 
Museum, including salaries or compens.-ition of all necessary em- 
ployees " (sundry civil act, March 3, 1903) $22,500.00 

EXPENDITl'HES. 

Salaries or compensation ,$9,915.81 

Special services .53.25 

'i'(.tnl s:ilaries and services .1;9, 969. 00 

Miscell.-inemis : 

Storage cases 2,250. 20 

Drawings . 50.88 

Drawers, trays, boxes 2,200.53 

Frames, stands, miscellaneous woodwork 100.40 



IIKPORT OF rilK KXIX'UTIVK COMMITTEE. XLIX 

^Iis((>l!;iii('()iis- - Coiitimicd. 

Class . ."[-TIS. I't; 

Il:inl\v:U-o H)7. 48 

Tools 54.73 

Cloth, cotton, otc 1(!7. (50 

TjUIiiIxt 1,;>70.44 

r.iiiits, oils. -liu>. I. rushes 181.00 

Ollicc ;iml hull ruriiituro and furnisliiujjs. _ <.K!I). 0,1 

Leather, ruhhej", etc '-2~.'.)'> 

Slate 20. 42 

Flour 2. 40 



Tot.-il niiscellaiicous $9,098.00 



Tol.-il expcMKlilnre In .Iiine :;o, lOOl $19,008.02 



Bal.-mce .hily 1. lOol. tn nieel outstaiKliim liahiliti<>s 3, J.*^!. 08 

AiKih/sis of c.riiciiflil iircs far xdhifics or com itciisatiov. 

1 .hil.v 1. r.io:!, to .Tiiiio :in. i!)04. i 

1 superintemlont, 2 months 12 days, at $1()0.(>0 $307.83' 

1 supervisor of construction, 3 months 10 days, at $140 505.81 

1 clerk, 10 months 46 days, at $100 1. 151. 51 

1 shop foreman, 12 months, at $85 1, 020. 00 

1 carpenter. 92 days, at $3 270.00 

1 carpenter, 4 days, at $3 12.00 

1 carpenter, 73 days, at $3 219.00 

1 carpenter, 1.30 days, at $3 .300.00 

1 carpenter, 4 days, at .$3 12.00 

1 carpenter, 118 days, at $3 1 -. 354.00 

1 carpenter, 13 days, at $3 30.00 

1 carpenter, 24 days, at $3 72.00 

1 carpenter, 15i days, at $3 40.50 

1 carpenter, 300 days, at $3 000.00 

1 carpenter. 24 days, at $3 72.00 

1 skilled laborer, 11 months 20 days, at $65 777. 83 

1 skilled laborer, 7 months, at $90 - 630.00 

1 skilled laborer, IS days, at $3 54.00 

1 skilled laborer, 18 days, at $3 54.00 

1 skilled laborer, 12 months, at $62.50 ' 750. 00 

1 skilled laborer. 111* days, at $3 334.50 

1 skilled laborer, 127J days, at $2.25 286. 88 

1 painter, 11 months 28* days, at $75 893.95 

1 workman, 314 days, at $2 028.00 

J laborer, 26 days, at $1.50 39.00 

Total 9,915.81 

NATIONAL MUSEUM— FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, 1903. 
RECEIPTS. 

Balance, as per report July 1, 1903 $1,606.24 

SM 1904 IV 



L REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

EXPENDITURES. 

Miscellaneous : 

Drawers, trays, boxes $288.98 

Frames, stands, niiscellanoous woodwork 31. 75 

(ilass 335.72 

Hardware 231. 49 

Cloth, cotton, etc 28.55 

lAunber 31(1. 95 

Paints, oils, etc .187.79 ■ 

Office and hall furniture, etc 210. (55 

Rubber, leather, etc 9.11 

Plumbing material . 75 

Slate 41.92 

Total exiienditure to June 30, 1904 $1,683.66 

Balance July 1, 1904 12.58 

Tutal siutemcnt of receipts and expend it xrcs. 

[July 1, VM)2, to July 1, 1904.] 

RECEIPTS. 

Appropriation by Congress, June 28. 1902 $22,500.00 

EXPENDITURES. 

Salaries $12,342.35 

Special services 14.60 

Total services $12,356.95 

Miscellaneous : 

Cases, storage $2,266.00 

Cases, exhibition 881.00 

Drawers, trays, etc 1,133.50 

Frames and woodwork 775. 66 

Glass 787.76 

Ilnrdware '665.15 

Tools 17.48 

Cloth 65.68 

Lumber 907.74 

Paints, oils, etc 447.41 

onice and hall furniture 1,689.03 

Leather, ruliber, cork 274.44 

Drawings 4.00 

Slate 100.72 

Travel 114.15 

Plumbing materia] .75 

Total miscellaneous exixMiditure 10,1.30.47 

Total expenditure to June .".(i, 1!»04 22,487.42 

Balance July 1, 1904 12.58 



REPOKT OF THE EXECUTIVK (OMMITTKE. LI 

NATIONAL Ml'SlOrM— FI UNITI'IUO AND Kl XTlltlOS, 1002. 
RKCKU'TS. 

Balance as p(>r roporf July 1, l!)0;i .$.">. 07 

Balance c.inuMl. under provisions of Revised Statutes, section o09U, by 
tlie Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund June 30, 1904. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM — IIEATIN(;, EIGIITINO, Ki\'C., 1904. 
RECEIPTS. 

Appropriation, hy ('on,i,'ress for the fiscal year endinj; June .">0, 1904, 
"for expense of heatint,', liLchtin.i;. electrical, telei^raphic, and 
telephonic srrvice for the National Museum" (sundry civil act, 
March ;*., 190:;) $18, 000. 00 

EXPENDITURES. 

Salaries or coni[)ensation $7,081.19 

iL^pecial services 118.75 

T(jtal salaries and services .$7,799.94 

^Miscellaneous : 

Coal and wood 4,984.00 

Gas 790. GO 

Electricity 1, 428. 3G 

Telephones 503.91 

Electrical supplies 627.43 

Rental of call boxes 110.00 

Heating supplies 921. .38 

Telegrams 18.80 



Total miscellaneous expenditure 9,384.48 



Total expenditure to June .30, 1904 17, 184.42 



Balance July 1, 1904, to meet outstanding liabilities 815.58 

A)ial!jf<is of crpciuUtures for snJarics or compensation. 

[.July 1, 1003, to June 30, 1904.] 

1 engineer, 12 mouths, at $122.50 $1,470.00 

1 telephone operator, 12 months, at $50 600.00 

1 telephone operator, 32 days, at $1.50 48.00 

1 telephone operator, days, at $1.50 9. 00 

1 telephone operator, 5 days, at $1.50 7.50 

1 telephone operator assistant, 2 mouths 31 days, at $45 135. 19 

1 electrician. (It! days, at .$4 264.00 

1 blacksmith, 2 months 3 days, at .$60 126. 00 

1 skilled laborer, 5 months, at .$90 450.00 

1 skilled laborer, 12 months, at .$75 900.00 

1 skilled laborer, 317i days, at $3 953.25 

1 plumber's assistant, 316J days, at $2.25 712.69 

1 fireman, 12 months, at $60 720.00 

1 fireman, 52 days, at $60 101.98 



LII REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

1 fireman, 4 iiiontlis 50 days, at $tJO pVAS. 32 

1 laborer, :i2M days, at $1.50 4S0. 76 

1 laborer, ->:!7 days, at $1.50 355.50 

Total - 7, 081. 19 

NATIONAL MUSEUM— HEATING AND LIGHTING, 1903. 

KECEIPTS. 
Balance as per report July 1, 1!)03 $1,002 63 

KXPENUITURF.S. 

Special s(>rvice.s $194. 75 

Total salaries or services $194.75 

Miscellaneous : 

Coal and wood 621.36 

Gas 63. 70 

Electricity 119.33 

Telephones 171. 65 

Electrical supplies 296.97 

Rental of call boxes 30.00 

Heating supplies 443.61 

Telegrams 9. 40 

Total miscellaneous expenditure 1,756.02 

Total expenditure to June 30, 1904 1, 950. 77 

Balance July 1, 1904 11.86 

Total stateiitcjit of recciiitx itinl c.rpenditures. 

[July 1, 1U02, to June 30, 1904.] 

RECEIPTS. 

Appropriation by Congress, .June 28. 1902 $18,000.00 

EXPENDITURES. 

Salaries or compensation $8,224.02 

Special services 228.91 

Total services $8,452.98 

Miscellaneous : 

Coal and wood 4,529.47 

Gas 996.40 

Rental of call boxes 120.00 

Electrical supplies 487.18 

Electricity 1,374.38 

Heating supplies 1,308.35 

Telegrams 47.83 

Telephones 671.60 

Total miscellaneous 9, 535. 21 

Total expenditure 17,988. 14 

Balance July 1, 1904 11-86 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. LIIl 

NATIONAL MUSEl'M— HEATING AND LICIITING, I'JOJ. 

B;ilanrf, ;is por report July 1, l*J(»o $1.00 

r>:il;ui(v cnriiod. under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 30M0, by tlie 
TreMsury Department to tlie ci'cdit of tiie sniplns fund Jmie ."'>(). 1!)()4. 

NATIONAL Ml'SlU M— rOSTAOlO, li»()4. 

RI'X'EIPTS. 

Ai)i)roi)riation by Consjress for tiic liscal year ending June 30, 1904, 
■' For posta.ue stamps and foi-eit;n postal cards for tlie National 
Museum" (sundry civil act. March 3, 1903) $r)00. (X) 

EXPENnrruRES. 

[July 1, lOOo, to Juno .'50, 1904.] 
For postage 500.00 

NATIONAL MT'SIOT'M— PRINTINO AND BINDING. 1004. 
RECEIPTS. 

.\pI)ropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1904. 
" for the Smithsonian Institution, for printing labels and blanks, 
and for the ' Bulletins ' and ' Proceedings ' of the National Mu- 
seum, the editions of which shall not be less than 3,000 copies, and 
binding, in half turkey, or material not more expensive, .scientific 
books and pamphlets presei'.ted to and acipiired by the National 
Museum library" (sundry civil act. .March 3, 1903) .$17,000.00 

EXPENDITURES. 

Bulletins of the Museum .$2, 797. 57 

Proceedings of the Museum 13, .501. 44 

Labels 153.90 

Blanks and circulars 2(58. 74 

Congressional Record 1 3S. 00 

Binding 177. .50 

Total exi)enditure to June 30, 1904 10,997.21 

Balance July 1, 1904 2.79 

NATIONAL MUSEUM— RENT OP WORKSHOPS, 1904. 

RECEIPTS. 

Appropriation by Congress foi' the fiscal year ending June 30, 1904, 
" for rent of workshops and temporary storage tjuarters for the 
National Museum" (sundry civil act, March 3, 1903) $4,400.00 



LIV REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

EXPENDITURES. 

[July 1, 11)03, to Juue 30, 1904.] 
Rent of workshops : 

431 Ninth street SW $1,009.92 

217 Seventh street SW 1. 080. 00 

309 and 313 Tenth street SW 9(50. 00 

915 Virginia avenue (rear) 3G0. 00 

Total expenditure to June 30. 1904 $4,399.92 

Balance July 1, 1904 .08 

NATIONAL MUSEFM— RENT OF WORKSHOP, 1903. 

Balance as per report July 1, 1903 $0.08 

Balance July 1, 1904 .08 

NATIONAL MUSETTM— KENT OF WORKSHOP, 1002. 

Balance as per report July 1. 1903 .$0.08 

Balance carried, under provisions of Kevised Statutes, section 3090, hy the 
Treasury Department to the credit of the surjjlus fund June 30, 1904. 

NATIONAL MrSErAI— P-TTILDINC REPAIRS, 1004. 

RECEIPTS. 

Al)propriation l>y Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1904, 
" for repairs to huildings. sli()i)s. and sheds. National iAInseuni, 
including all necessary labor and material " (sundry civil act, 
March 3, 1903) $15,000.00 

EXPENDITURES. 

Salaries or compensation .$9,900.80 

Special services .50.00 

Total salaries and services $10,010.80 

Miscellaneous : 

Rejiairs to roofs (hy contract) 1,033.20 

Galvanized-iron ceiling cornice 48G. 78 

Lumber 93. .32 

Cement, i)laster, mortar, brick, s.-md, ptc_ 80. 45 

Hardware, tools, etc 298.38 

I'aints. oils, glue, brushes 275.97 

Skylight 03. GO 

Glass 41. 25 

Drawings 40.00 

Cloth, etc 270.00 

Terrazzo pavement GO. 00 

rinmbing material 11.21 

Rubber, etc 15.90 

Total miscellaneous expenditure 2,520.82 

Total expenditure to Juno .",0, 1904 12. .531. OS 

Balance July 1, 1904, to meet outstanding liabilities 2. 408. .32 



REPORT OF THK EXECUTlVi; COMMITTEE, IV 

.\n(il,Hf<i'< of i\riti')i<1iliirt'x fur .s'fl/(//'/r.<( or roiiiiioisation. 

IJuly 1, 11)03, to June 30, 1!)04.J 

1 supcriiitfiidonr. <", months, at $1(;(;.(1(; $999.90 

1 clerk, 12 months 20 days, at .$()0 KM). 00 

1 foreman. 9 months 35 days, at S8.j 801. GO 

1 cariuMitei-. 314 days, at $3 942.00 

1 cariHMiter. 314 days, at $3 942.00 

i cai-iK'ntor, 30 days, at $3 90.00 

1 skillod hihofor. 10 days, at $3 48.00 

1 skillod lalu)f(M-. 5(5 days, at ipl.75 98.00 

1 skilh'd lahoror, 10 days, at $3 48.00 

1 skillod lahofor, 59i days, at $70 130.57 

1 skillod laborer, 70 days, at $3 228.00 

1 skillod laborer, 54i days, at $3 103.50 

1 skilled laborer, 31 days, at $1.75, .$54.25 ; 13 days, at $1.50, $19.50_ 73. 75 

1 skillod laborer, 10 days, at $3 30.00 

1 skillod laborer, 37 days, at $3 111.00 

1 skillod laborer, 08 days, at .$3 204.00 

1 skillod laborer, 11 months 28 days, at $70 833.23 

1 skillod laborer. 1 month '>U days, at $70 194.87 

1 classitiod laborer. 32(;,i days, at $2 653.00 

1 tinner. 1 month 15i days, at $7(t 105.00 

1 tinner. :! months IS days, at $70 250.05 

1 tinner. 40 days, at $70__' 105.98 

1 painter's assistant, 314 days, at $1.75 549.50 

1 phtsterer's assistant, 41 days, at $2 82.00 

1 messenger. 7 months, at .$20, $140 ; 5 months, at $30, $150 290. 00 

1 laborer. 41 days, at $1.50 <>1.50 

1 laborer, 03^ days, at $1.50 95.25 

1 laborer, 319* days, at $1.50 479.25 

1 laborer, SO days, at $1.75 150. 50 

1 laborer, 314 days, at $1.75 549. 50 

1 laborer, 221 days, at $1.75 380.75 

1 laborer. 13 days, at $1.50 -- 19- 50 

1 laborer. 12 days, at $1.50 18. 00 

Total 9. 960. 80 

NATIONAL MliSr-UrM— BUILDINC RRPAIUS, 1903. 
RECEIPTS. 

RalaiH-e as per report .July 1. 1903 $1,528.97 

KXPENniTTJRES. 
[.Tuly 1, 1'.>M3, to .Tuno 30. l'.)04.1 

Salaries or eompens.-ition $7.00 

Si)ecial services 10.00 

Total salaries oi stn-vioes $17, 00 

Miscellaneous : 

Lumber 104.41 

Cement, plaster, mortar, srravel, sand, 

etc 113.25 



LVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Miscellaneous — Coiitinned. 

Hardware, tools, oto $455. 10 

Paints, oils, glue, chemicals I_ 4.30. 17 

Woodwork 11.2."> 

Skylights 1 251. :w 

Glass H].:M 

Cloth, etc 1 1.05 

Total miscellaneous expenditure $1,45.3.93 

Total expenditure to June .">(). 1!)04 .1>],470. OM 

Balance .tuly 1. T.t()4 _ 58.04 

Total stdtciuchf (if receipts ami e.rpeiullt iires. 
I.Tuly I. I'.Xlli, lo .hiiie .'iO, 19U4. 1 

BECEIPTS. 
Appropriations by Congross, June 28, 1002 $15,000.00 

KXl'ENDITtrUES. 

r.Tnly 1. 1!M)2, t.) .Iiiiic :'.0, 1004.1 

Salaries or compensation $10,171.80 

Special services 309.80 

Total services $10,484.(59 

Miscellaneous: 

Lumber .552.31 

Cement, ])laster. gravel. ■ lime, sand, 

mortar 3f9. 2(1 

Hardware, tools, etc 719.32 

Paints, oils, glue, brushes 941.87 

Woodwork 97. 23 

Skylights and ventilators 679.30 

Glass IGG. 10 

Cloth, cotton, etc 2.55 

Paper 40.50 

Drawings 35.00 

Slating roof 750.00 

Steel beams 47.77 

Brickwork 106.00 

Total miscellaneous 4, 457. 27 

Total expenditure to June ."'.O, 1904 14.941.9(5 

Balance July I. 19(>4 58.04 

NA'I'IONAL MUSEl^M— r.TTILDINd REI'AIKS, VMri. 

Balance as juu- repoi-t .luly 1. 1!H)3 $27.2:'. 

Balance carri(>d. under jtrovisions of Itevised Statutes, .section 3090, by llic 
Treasury Depart.ment to the credit of the surplus fund June 30, 1904. 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. LVlI 

NATlONAIi Ml'SKl'M— CAM-FOKIICS, \'M)2. 
Balance as per report July 1, \'M:\ $l.li 

r.;ilance carried, uiidcn- provisions of llevised Statutes, section :?()!.»(), by the 
'I'reasnry Department to the crcilil ot the surplus run<l .lune :'.(). 11104. 

NATIONAL Ml'SKTM— BOOKS, 1904. 

UECEIl>rS. 

Ai)propriatl()n by Congress for the fiscal year ending June oO, l!"t04. 
" for i)urchase of books, i)anii)lilets, iind i)eriodicals for reference 
in the National Museum" (sundry civil act ol Con.tin^ss. March .">, 
1903) $2,00U.00 

EXPENniTTTRES. 

[July 1, lito:;, to June 30, 1904.] 
Ki>oRs. pamphlets, and periodicals 1,227.60 

Balance July 1, 1!)04. to meet outstandin.i,' liabilities 772.40 

NATIONAL MUSEUM— BOOKS, 1903. 

RECEIPTS. 

Balance as per report July 1. 1903 $606. 62 

EXPENWTtTRES. 

[July 1. l!Hi:!, to JiHio :!il. 1004.] 

For books, pamphlets, etc__-. ' 556.86 

Balance July 1. T.»04 49.76 

NATIONAL MT:SEUM— BOOKS, 1902. 

RECEIPTS. 

Balance as per report July 1, 1903 $198.27 

EXPENDITURES. 
[July 1. 190;!. to June ;50, 1904.] 

Books, pami)hlets, and ])eriodicals 105.89 

Balance .._..>« 

Balance carried, under i)rovisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the 
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund June :'.o, 1!)()4. 

N.\TIONAL MUSEITM— I'UUCIlASr: OK SPECIMENS, 1904. 

RECEIPTS. 

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1904, 
" for imrchase of specimens to suiiply deficiencies in the collec- 
tions of the National Museum " (sundry civil act, March :!, 19(i3)_ .$10,000.00 



LVIII REPOKT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

EXPENDITURES. 

[July 1. 1003, to June HO, 1004.] 

For purchase of spocioiens . $8,517. 73 

Balance .Inly 1, T.K)4. to meet uutstaiulin.u liabilities 1,482.27 

NxVTIONAL MUSEUM— PURCHASE OF SPECIMENS, 100;{. 
RECEIPTS. 

Balance as per report July 1. liHK! .$4. 000. (iO 

EXPENDITURES. 

[July 1, lOO:'., to June 30, 1004.] 

For jiurchase of specimens 3,650.51 

Balance July 1, 1904 350.18 

NATIONAL MUSEUM — PURCHASE OF SPECIMENS. 1002. 

RECEIPTS. 
Balance as per report July 1. 1!>03 1 $56. 2(5 

EXPENOITURES. 

[July 1, l!t03. to June 30. 1004.] 

For specimens 20. 00 

Balance 35. 20 

Balance carried, under jirovisions of Revised Statutes, section :H)'.»K hy the 
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund June 30. 1004. 

NATIONAL AlUSEUM— PUBLICATION CONTRIBUTIONS TO NATIONAL 
HEUBARIITM, 10O3. 

RECEIPTS. 

Balance as per rejiort July 1, 1003 .$3,972.51 

EXPENDITURES. 

[July 1, 1003, to June 30, 1004.] 

Printing contributions .", 9(*>9. 80 

Balance July 1, 1904 2.71 

NATIONAL MI Si:UM— PLANS FOR AODITIONAT/ BUILDING. NATIONAL MI'SEUM, 

1903. 

Balance as jum- report July 1. 1903 .$4:'.. 2i) 

Balance July L 1904 43.20 

ASTKOPIIYSICAL OBSERVATORY, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, lOOL 

RECEIPTS. 

Ai)pro]»i-iation by Congress foi' the fiscal year ending June .30, 1904. 
" for maintenance of Astrophysical Observatory, under the direc- 
tion of the Smithsonian Institution, including salaries of assist- 
ants, the purchase of necessary books and periodicals, apparatus, 
making necessary observations in high altitudes, printing and 
imblishing rc^sults of researches, not exceeding 1,500 coiiies, repairs 
and alterations of buildings, and nnscellaneous exi)enses, $15,000" 
.(sundry civil act, March 3, 1903) $15,000.00 



REPORT OV THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. LIX 

niSnURSEMENTS. 

S:il;iru'S or coniponsation : 

1 aid, lli months, at !P200 .fi, 400. 00 

1 Junior assistant. 12 months, at .$125 1,500.00 

1 dork. 1 month 125.00 

1 stono.u'raphor. 11 months, at .$100 1,100.00 

1 photi^raphor's assistant, 2 months, at $70. 140. 00 

1 instrument maker, 12 months, at .$90 1,080.00 

1 fireman, 12 months, at .$G0 720.00 

1 laborer, 12 months, at .$2.5 300.00 

1 c.irpenter, 18 days, at $8. 50 45. 50 

1 carpenter, 4 days, at $3 12. 00 

1 carpenter, i month, at .$91 45. .50 

1 cleaner, IS days, at $1 18. 00 

1 cleaner, 1.-.2 days, at $1 152. 00 

Tot;il salaries or compensation .$7,638.00 

General expenses : 

Api.aratns 1,949.10 

Hooks and binding 211.32 

P.nildinj,' repairs 200.00 

Drawings 9.00 

Castings 32. 29 

Electricity 14.3. 00 

Freight 9. ,55 

Lumber 27.41 

Paints, etc 7.23 

Sand 1O.00 

Stationery 14.80 

Snpi)lies - 31.5. .33 

Travel «0. 85 

2, 995. 48 

Total disbursenu'Uts $10, G.38. 48 

Balance .July 1. 1904 4.366.52 

ASTROniYSICAL OBSERVATORY, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 100:{. 
Balance July 1. 190.3, as per last report $1. 415. 71 

mSBURSEMENTS. 

General expenses : 

Apparatus $1,139.80 

Books and binding 102.21 

Castings S. 95 

Drawings 16.34 

Electricity -•"»• '•"> 

Freight 1'*^- ■*■* 

Lighting 1-30 

Supplies 04. 90 

Total disbursements 1. 407. 69 

Balam-e 8.02 



LX KEPOKT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSEKVATOHV, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1002. 
BalaiK-e July 1. K>0:1. as per last report $1,323.22 

DISBURSEMENTS. 

General expenses: 

Apparatus 1, 320. 00 



Balance 3.22 

Balance carried, iinder provisions of Revised Statutes, section .3000, l)y the 
Treasury Department to the credit of tlie surplus fund .Tune 30, 10(t-i. 

OBSERVATION OF ECLIPSE OF MAY 28, 1900. 

Balance July 1, 100.3, as per last report .?75.'5. 74 

DISBURSEMENTS. 

General expenses : 

Supplies 43. 4.5 



Balance 712.29 

NATIONAI, ZOOLOGICAL PARK, 1904. 
RECEIPTS. 

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June .30, 1004, 
" for continuing the construction of roads, walks bridges, water 
supply, sewerage, drainage, and for grading, planting, and other- 
wise improving the groiuids : erecting and repairing buildings and 
inclosures : care, subsistance. purchase, and transportation of 
animals, including salaries or compensation of all necessary em- 
ployees ; the jturchase of necessary books and periodicals ; the 
printing and itnblishing of operations, not exceeding 1..500 copies, 
and general incidental expenses not otherwise pro^'ided for, 
$95,000" (sundry civil act, March 3, 1903) .$95,000.00 

DISBURSEMENTS. 

Salaries or compensation : 

1 sui>erintendent, 4 mouths, at $225 ; 8 

months at $275 .$3,100.00 

1 projiei'ty clerk, 8 months, at $1.50 ; as- 
sistant superintendent, 4 months, at 

$!(!(). or, l,S()(i. 04 

1 stenographer, 12 months, at $83. 33 999. 96 

1 clerk, 8 months at $110; 4 months, at 

$125 1,380.00 

1 clerk, 12 months, at $110 1,320.00 

1 messenger, 8 months and 13 days, at $30- 252. 58 

1 photographer, (J months, at $70 420. 00 

1 landscape gardener, 11* months and 

Ui da.vs, at !!;S.3..33 998.47 

1 head keeper, 12 months, at $112..50 1,-3.50.00 

1 keeper. 12 months, at $(50 720.00 

1 keeper, 12 months, at $00 720.00 

1 keeper. 10 nionllis and 28] days, at $(>0_ 080. .50 

1 keeiier. Hi months and 5 days, at $00_- 700.00 



RKPOirr OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. LXI 

Siilnrios or comiKMisatioii -CoiitiinuMl. 

1 s(>rgoant of wafcli, ;)A luoiitlis and :!4 

(lays, at $(;.", .fC.iW. OO 

1 watcliniaii. 1 iiioiitli. at .$(!0 CO. 00 

1 watohiiiaii. V2 luoiillis. at .$<J0 720.00 

1 watchuian, (» months, at .$55; (> months, 

at $(iO (•,!»(). 00 

1 watchman. 12 months, at .$()0 720.00 

1 watchman. I month and 1!) days, at .i;50_ 55.04 

1 machinist, 12 montlis. at $S:5.;W 1)99.90 

1 assistant foivman. 12 months, at $u5__- 780.00 

1 assistant l)lacl<smitli. 12 months, at $(i0_ 720.00 

1 worlunan, 12 montlis, at .$()0 720.00 

1 worlunan, 12 montlis. at .$00 720.00 

1 lahoror. 11 months and 2 days, at $(J0__ 063.87 
1 lahoivr, months, at .$55 ; (t mouths, at 

$60 690.00 

1 laborer. (> months, at .$50 ; 6 months, at 

$60 660.00 

Total salaries or compensation $2.3,404.22 

Miscellaneous : 

Buildings 4,514.62 

Building material 1,438.01 

Feucing, cage material, etc 200. .33 

Food 12,860.47 

Freight and transportation of animals 601. 71 

Fuel 1,270.73 

Furniture 12.25 

Lumber 567.19 

Machinery, tools, etc 300.03 

Miscellaneous supplies 969.68 

Paints, oils, glass, etc 197.87 

Postage, telegraph, and telephone 95.65 

Purchase of animals 3,054.65 

Road material and grading 374. 67 

Stationery, books, etc 229.26 

Smweying, plans, etc 16.50 

Travel and field expenses 168.79 

Trees, plants, etc 1.5.50 

Water supply, sewerage, etc 230.38 

Total miscellaneous 27.118.29 

Wages of mechanics and laborers and hire of 
teams in constructing buildings and inclo- 
sures, laying water pipes, building roads, 
gutters, and walks, planting trees, and other- 
wise iiuproving the grounds : 

1 carpenter, 313* days, at .$3 940. 50 

1 workman, 366 days, at .$2 732. 00 

1 laborer. 06J days, at .$2.50 240. 63 

1 laborer, 300i days, at .$2 601. 00 

1 laborer, 3675 days, at .$2 7.35. 50 

1 laborer, 348 days, at $2 696. 00 



LXII REPOKT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Wages of inechanics and laborers, etc. — Cont'd. 

1 laborer. .'?7-l days, at $2 ?.75U. 00 

1 laborer. 24* days, at $1.75 42. 87 

1 laborer. .'UO days, at $1.75 r)95. 01 

1 laborer, 245 days, at $1.75: 123i days, 

at $2 075.25 

1 laborer, .".OS^ days, at $1.75 539. 88 

1 laborer, a()(U days, at $1.75 641. 38 

1 laborer, 31Gf days, at $1.75 554. 32 

1 laborer, 371| days, at $1.75 050. 57 

1 laborer, 282i days, at $1.75 493. 94 

1 laborer, 3.50^ days, at $1.75 623. 44 

1 laborer. 294* da.vs, at $1.75 515. 39 

1 laborer, .••,392 "lays, at $1.75 594. 57 

1 laborer. .344* days, at $1.75 602. 89 

1 laborer. .",70A days, at $1.75 648. 39 

1 laborer. 27 days, at $1.50 . 40. 50 

1 laborer, 65i days, at $1.50 97. 88 

1 laborer, 1 05i days, at $ 1.50 158. 63 

1 laborer, 45i days, at $1.50 67. 88 

1 laborer, 12 days, at $1.50 IS. 00 

1 Taborer, 34* days, at $1.50 51. 75 

1 laborer, 22 days, at $1.50 33. oo 

1 laborer, 7* days, at $1.50 11. 25 

1 laborer. 51f days, at $1.50 77. (U 

1 laborer. 96J days, at $1.50 144. .38 

1 laborer, 43 days, at $1.50 64. 50 

1 laborer, 76* days, at $1.50 114. 75 

1 laborer. 54i days, at $1.50 81. 38 

1 laborer, 77f days, at $1.50 116. 63 

1 laborer, 69| days, at $1.50 104. 25 

1 laborer, 30* days, at $1.50 45. 75 

1 laborer, 55f days, at $1.50 83.63 

1 laborer, 108i days, at $1.50 163. 13 

1 laborer. 49 days, at $1.50 73.50 

1 laborer, 12 da.vs. at $1.50 18.00 

1 laborer, 90 days, at $1.50 135.00 

1 laborer, di days, at $1.50 13. 88 

1 laborer, 17f days, at $1.50 26.63 

1 laborer, 33 days, at $1.50 49.50 

1 laborer, 20 days, at $1.50 39.00 

1 laborer, 3 days, at $1.50 4. 50 

1 laborer, 197* days, at $1.50 296.26 

1 laborer, 7'5* days, at $1.50 114. 76 

1 laborer, (535 days, at $1.50 ; 309^ days, at 

$1.75 637.26 

1 laborer, 157^ days, at $1.50 235. 88 

1 laborer, 53 days, at $1.50; 262* days, 

at $1.75 538.88 

1 lal)orer, 339 days, at $1.50 508. 50 

1 laltorer, 115J days, at $1.50; 206* days, 

at $1.75 5.34.28 

1 laborer, 352 days, at $1.50 528. 00 

1 laborer, 313* days, at $1.50 515. 27 



REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. LXIII 

Wases of uieclianics and laborc-i-s, etc. — Coiit'il. 
1 laltortT. Ki days, at $1.50; 821 days, 

at .$1.75 $»;.m 75 

1 laborer, 344* days, at $1.50 51(;. 70 

1 laborer, 205 days, at .$2; 42 days, at 

$1.50 47:5. 00 

1 laborer. llSj days, at $1.-50 177.38 

1 laborer, 2!)(>J days, at $1.50 445. 14 

1 laborer. lOi) days, at $1.50 163.50 

1 laborer, 3401 days, at $1.50 519.39 

1 laborer, .-.28 days, at $1.50 492.00 

! laborer, 222i days, at $1.50 3:5.-,. 77 

1 laborer. 242i days, at $1..jO 3().3. 70 

1 laborer, 2'.)1 days, at $1.50 441.00 

1 laborer, 195:1 days, at $1.50 29:',. (;4 

1 laborer, 3055 days, at $1.50 548. 03 

1 laborer, (525 (l^ys, at $1.50; 3085 days, 

at $1.75 034.43 

1 laborer. IH>'{ days, at $1.50 55. 13 

1 laborer, 303 days, at $1..50 454.52 

1 laborer. 73^ days, at $1.50; 164| days, 

at $1.75 398.58 

1 laborer. 85] days, at $1.-50 127. 88 

1 laborer, 194 days, at $1.50; 154* days, 

at $1.75 561.40 

1 laborer, 4U days, at $1.50 62.20 

1 laborer, 51 days, at $1 51.00 

1 laborer, -38i days, at $1 38. 25 

1 laborer. 3605 days, at $1 366.75 

1 laborer, .52^ days, at $1 52.50 

1 laborer, -54 days, at $1; 283i days, at 

$1.25 408.38 

1 laborer, 127 days, at $1 ; 2095 days, at 

$1.25 389.20 

1 attendant. 289 days, at 75 cents 216.75 

1 attendant, 69 days, at 75 cents 51. 75 

1 helper, -33 days, at 75 cents; 38* days, 

at $1 63.25 

1 helper, 151 dars, at 75 cents ; 145| days, 

at $1 ^•^'•^-^''i 

1 water boy, 40 days, at .50 cents__-'- 20. 00 

1 stonebreaker, 44 cubic yards, at 60 

cents 26.40 

1 stonebreaker, 14 cubic yards, at 60 

cents S.40 

1 wason and team, 92 days, at -$3.-50 322. 00 

1 wagon and team. 3t)75 days, at .$3.50-.- 1,287.13 

1 wagon and team. -55 days, at $3.50 192. .50 

1 horse and cart, 1 day, at $1.75 1- 75 

1 horse and cart, 7 days, at $1.75 12.25 

1 horse and cart, 97 days, at $1.75 169. 74 

1 horse and cart, 2h days, at $1.75 4. 37 

1 horse and cart, 120? days, at $1.75 211. .32 

1 horse and cart, 1125 days, at $1J5 197. 32 



LXIV REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Wages of iiKM-liniiics and laborers, etc. — Cont'd. 

1 horse and cart, 32f days, at $1.75 $57. .31 

1 horse and cart, TPA days, at $1.75 128. 63 

1 horse and cart, 15J days, at $1.75 "27. 56 

1 horse, 3:57 <lays. at .".() cents ^^ ::_ 168. 50 

Total wa!,'(>s of luedianics. etc $30,042.52 

Total dislmiseiuents $80,565.03 

Balance .Inly 1, 1904 14,434.97 

NATIONAL //)(»I,()(;i('AL I'ARK, 100.3. 

Balance .Inly 1, 190.3. as per last rejiort .$4,755.04 

niSBURSEMENTS. 

General expenses: 

Bnildings $104. 70 

Fencing, cage material, etc 829.80 

Food 1,246.29 

Freight and transportation of animals 370.50 

Fuel -__ : 546.80 

Furniture 3. .50 

Lumber 301.52 

Machinery, tools, etc 170.31 

Miscellaneous supplies 252. 42 

Paints, oils, glass, etc • 65.51 

Postage, telegraph, and telephone 87.67 

Purchase of animals 160.13 

Koad material and grading . 179.46 

Stationery, books, etc 60.65 

Travel 53.30 

Trees, plants, etc . 7.35 

Water supply and sewerage 109.42 

Special services 2.00 

Total disbursements 4. 551. 42 



Balance July 1, 1904 203.62 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, 1902. 

Balance July 1, 1903, as per last report $7.26 

Balance carried, under pi'ovisions of Ilevisod Statutes, section 3090, by the 
Treasn.ry Department to the credit of the surplus fund June 30, 1904. 

ELEPHANT HOUSE, NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, 1903. 
Balance July 1, 1903, as per last report $64.40 

niSBURSEMENTS. 

General expenses : 

Building material $27.09 

Fencing _-. 36.77 

Total disbursements 63:86 

Balance July 1, 1904 .54 



REPORT OF TTIK EXEC'TTTTVE TOMMITTEE. LXV^ 

KKCAi'nri.A'rioN. 

The total iuuount ol' fniuls ;uliiiiiiist<M-(Ml I).v the Institution during the year 
cndiHi,' Juno .'W. 1004, a]>iK'ars from the rorogoing statonionts and account books 
to linve l>o<>n ns follows : 

SAflTIISONIAN INSTITUTION. 

From halanco of last year. July 1. l!)(i:'. $55, ."QT. G7 

From interest on Smithsonian fund for the year 5(i. 074. 17 

From interest on West Shore bonds 1,('.80. 00 

From sales of publications 353.37 

From repayments, freight, etc 10,328.02 

.$123,943.23 

Al'l'UOPRIATIONS COMMITTED BY CONGRESS TO THE 
CARE OF THE INSTITUTION. 

International Exchanges — Smithsouian Institution : 

From balance of 1901-2 $0.88 

From balance of 1902-3 1,822.14 

From appropriation for 1903-4 2(5, 000. 00 

27, 823. 02 

American l';thnolog.y — Smithsonian Institution : 

From balance of 1901-2 220. 77 

From balance of 1902-3 3,489.99 

From appropriation for 1903-4 40,000.00 

43, 710. 70 

Preservation ot collections — National Museum : 

From balance of 1901-2 .__ 159. 1(> 

From balance of 1902-3 9.597.20 

From appropriation for 1903-4 180,000.00 

189, 75(5. 36 

Furniture and fixtures — National Museum: 

From balance of 1901-2 5.07 

From balance of 1902-3 1,696.24 

From appropriation for 1903-4 22,500.00 

24. 201. 31 

Heating and lighting — National Museum : 

From balance of 1901-2 1-60 

From balance of 1902-3 1,962.63 

From appropriation for 1903-4 18,000.00 

19,964.23 

Postage — National Museum : 

From appropriation for 1903-4 500.00 

Printing and binding — National Museum : 

From appropriation for 1903-4 17.000.00 

Rent of workshops — National INIuseum : 

From balance of 1901-2 -08 

From balance of 1902-3 -08 

From appropriation for 1903-4 4,400.00 

4, 400. 16 

Building repairs — National Museum: 

From balance of 1901-2 27.23 

From balance of 1902-3 _• 1. 528. 97 

From appropriation for 1903-4 15,000.00 

16, 5.5(;. 20 

SM 1904 V 



LXVT REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

Galleries — National Museum : 

From balance July 1, 1903 

Books — National Museum : 

From balance of 1901-2 $19S. 27 

From balance of 1902-S GOO. 02 

From appropriation for 1903-4 2.000.00 

Purchase of specimens — National Museum : 

From balance of 1901-2 55.26 

From balance of 1902-3 4,000.09 

From appropriation for 1903-4 10,000.00 

Contributions to National Herbarium — National Museum: 

From balance July 1, 1903 

Plans for additional building — National Museum: 

From balance July 1, 1903 

Astropbysical Observatory — ?5mitbsonian Institution : 

From balance of 1901-2 1,323.22 

From balance of 1902-3 1, 415. 71 

From appropriation for 1903—1: l.f). 000. 00 

Observation of ecli])se of May 28, 1900: 

From balance July 1, 1903 

National Zoological Park : 

From balance of 1901-2 7. 20 

From balance of 1902-3 4, 755. 04 

From appropriation for 1903-4 95,000.00 

Elephant house — National Zoological Park : 

From balance July 1, 1903 

SUMMARY. 

Smithsonian Institution $123,943.23 

Exchanges 27,823.02 

Ethnology 43, 710. 70 

I'reservation of collections 189,750.30 

Furniture and fixtures 24,201.31 

Heating and lighting 19,904.23 

Postage -- 500. 00 

Printing and binding 17,000.00 

Rent of workshops 4,400.16 

Building repairs 16, 556. 20 

Galleries 1- 17 

Bool<s 2, 804. 89 

Purchase of specimens 14,055.95 

C'ontril)uti()ns to National Herbarium 3,972.51 

Plans for additional building 43.20 

Astrophysical Ob.servatory 17, 738. 93 

Observation of eclipse 755.74 

National Zoological Park 99, 762. 30 

National Zoological Pai'k — Elephant house 64.40 



$607, 054. 3(5 



REPORT OF THK KXEOUTIVE COMMITTEE. LXVII 

The committee has exainiiicd tlic \(»iicli('rs for paynuMit from the 
Smithsonian income (hiring- the year ending fliine 80, 1004, each of 
whicli bears tlie approval of the Secretary or, in his absence, of the 
Acting Secretary, and a certificate that the materials and services 
charged were api)lied to the })urposes of the Institution. 

The quarterly accounts current, the vouchers, and journals have 
been examined and found correct. 

titatcnii'nl of rt'i/iilar hivtnnr frtDii the Sniilhf«))iian fiDid arailablc for kuc in 
tfic iicitr end in (J ,1 luic 30, 190'). 

Balance July 1, U)04 $40,048.33 

Interest due and receivable July 1, 1904 $28, 110. 00 

Interest due and receivable January 1, 1905 28,110.00 

Interest, West Shore Railroad bonds, due July 1, 1904__ 840. 00 

Interest. West Shore Railroad bonds, due January 1, 

1905 840.00 

57, 900. 00 

Total available for year ending Juno 80. 1905 104, 548. 33 

Respectfully submitted. 

J. B. Henderson, 
Alexander Graham Bell, 
Robert R. Hitt, 

Executive C ommittee. 

Washington, D. C., Januanj 21., 1905. 



ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS RELATIVE TO THI 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ETC. 

[Continued from previous Ueports.] 



[Fifty-eightU C,'oiij4i-('ss, second session.] 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

Resolved hy the Senate and House of Representatives of tJie United 
States of Anienea in Congress assemMed, That the vacancies in the 
Board of Kegents of the Smithsonian Institution, of the class other 
than Alembers of Congress, shall be filled by the reappointment of 
John B. Henderson and Alexander Graham Bell, residents of the 
city of Washington, whose terms of office expire on January twenty- 
fourth, nineteen hundred and four. (Approved January 27, 1904; 
Statutes, XXXITI, 582.) 

Smithsonian Deposit [Library or Congress]. — P^or custodian, 
one thousand five hundred dollars; assistant, one thousand two hun- 
dred dollars; messenger, seven hundred and twenty dollars; mes- 
senger boy, three hundred and sixty dollars; in all, three thousand 
seven hundred and eighty dollars. (Approved March 18, 1904 ; 
Statutes, XXXIII, 95.) 

Exchange of Public Documents [Library of Congress]. — For 
expenses of exchanging public documents for the publications of 
foreign governments, one thousand eight hundred dollars. (Ap- 
proved March 18, 1904; Statutes, XXXIII, 96.) 

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. 

For expenses of the system of international exchanges between 
the United States and foreign countries, under the direction of the 
Smithsonian Institution, including salaries or compensation of all 
necessary employees, and the purchase of necessary books and peri- 
odicals, twenty-seven thousand dollars, and for the fiscal year nine- 

LXIX 



LXX ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. 

tiH'ii liiindivd and six estimates shall be submitted hereunder em- 
bracino; all sums expended for this service out of other appropria- 
tions made bv Cono-ress. (Approved April 28, 1904; Statutes, 
XXXTII, IC.l.) 

Navai. Ohskhvatorv. — For repairs to buildings, fixtures, and 
fences, furniture, u^as, chemicals, and stationery, freight (including 
transmission of public documents through the Smithsonian ex- 
cliange), foreign postage, and expressage, plants, fertilizers, and all 
contingent expenses, two thousand five hundred dollars. (Approved 
March IS, 1004: Statutes, XXXIII, 120.) 

HUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY. 

For continuing ethnological researches among the American In- 
dians under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including 
salaries or compensation of all necessary emj^loyees and the purchase 
of necessary books and periodicals, forty thousand dollars, of which 
sum not exceeding one thousand five hundred dollars may be used 
for rent of building. (Approved April 28, 1904 ; Statutes, XXXIII, 
4()1.) 

That the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution is hereby author- 
ized to apply any unexpended balance of the appropriation "Ameri- 
can Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution,'' for the fiscal year ending 
June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and three, to the payment of liabili- 
ties existing against the appropriations "American Ethnology, Smith- 
sonian Institution," for the fiscal years ending June thirtieth, nine- 
teen hundred and one and nineteen hundred and two, respectively, 
and the same is hereby reappropriated and made available for ex- 
]>enditure for the purpose herein mentioned. (Approved April 27, 
1904; Statutes XXXIII, 397.) 

Resolved hy the Senate and II o use of Rept'esentatives of the United 
States of Ameriea in Congress assembled. That hereaftei* the bulletins 
issued by the Bureau of American Ethnology shall be in octavo size 
instead of royal octavo. (Approved March 29, 1904; Statutes, 
XXXIII, 585.) 

ASTROPIIYSICAL ORSERVATORY. 

For maintenance of Astrophysical Obserxalory, under the direction 
of the Smithsonian Institution, including salaries of assistants, the 
purchase of necessary books and periodicals, apparatus, making nec- 
essary observations in high altitudes, printing aiul publishing results 
of researches, not exceeding one thousand five hundred copies, repairs 



ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONOKESS. LXXI 

and alterations of biiildiiigs and miscellaneous expenses, fifteen thou- 
sand dollars. (Approved April 28, 1904; Statutes, XXXIII, 4(;L) 

N ATION AI. ISl I rSEU M . 

For eases, furniture, fixtures, and appliances requii'ed for the exhi- 
bition and safe-keeping- of the collections of the National Museum, 
includinii- salaries or compensation of all necessary emploj^ees, twenty- 
two thousand fi\'e hundred dolhirs. 

For expense of heatin<>:, lightino-, electrical, telegraphic, and tele- 
phonic service for the National Museum, eighteen thousand dollars. 

For continuing the ])reservation, exhibition, and increase of the col- 
lections from the surveying and exijloring expeditions of the Govern- 
ment, and from other sources, including salaries or compensation of 
,dl necessary employees, one hundred and eighty thousand dollars, of 
which sum five thousand five hundred dollars may be used for 
necessary drawings and illustrations for publications of the National 
Museum, and all otluM- necessary incidental expenses. 

For purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals for reference in 
the National Mnseum, two thousand dollars. 

For repairs to buildings, shops, and sheds. National Musemn, in- 
(duding all necessary labor and material, fifteen thousand dollars. 

For rent of workshops and temporary storage quarters for the Na- 
tional Museum, four thousand five hundred and eigiity dollars. 

For postage stamps and foreign postal cards for the National Mu- 
seum, five hundred dollars. (Approved April 28, 1904; Statutes 
XXXIII, 461,402.) 

For the Smithsonian Institution, for printing labels and l)lanks, 
and for the " Bulletins " and '' Proceedings "' of the National Mu- 
seum, the editions of which shall not be less than three thousand 
copies, and binding, in half turkey or material not more expensive, 
scientific books and i)an)phlets i)resented to and acquired l)y the 
National Museum library, twenty-five thousand dollars. (x\i)proved 
April 28, 1904; Statutes "XXXIII, 512.) 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK. 

For continuing the construction of roads, walks, bridges, water sup- 
ply, sewerage, and drainage; and for grading, planting, and other- 
wise improving the grounds; erecting and repairing buildings and 
inclosures and providing seats in the park; care, subsistence, pur- 
chase, and transportation of animals; including salaries or compensa- 
tion of all necessary employees, the purchase of necessary books and 
periodicals, the printing and publishing of operations, not exceeding 



LXXII ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. 

one thousand five hundred copies, and g-eneral incidental expenses not 
otherwise provided for, ninety-five thousand doUars, one-half of 
which sum shall be paid from the revenues of the District of Columbia 
5md the other half from the Treasury of the United States. (Ap- 
proved April 28, 1004; Statutes, XXXIII, ■4()2.) 

POWER HOUSE FOR PUBLIC BUILDINGS. 

For the preparation, by the superintendent of the library building 
and grounds, of preliminary plans and estimates of cost for the loca- 
tion, construction, and equipment of a power house with distributing 
mains for heat, steam, and electric power to the existing and projected 
Government buildings on the Mall and in the vicinity of the White 
House, said superintendent to rei)ort thereon in full to Congress at 
its next session, five thousand dollars. (Approved April 28, 1904; 
Statutes, XXXIII, 511.) 

LETTERING OF OFFICIAL VEHICLES. 

Xo part of any monej^ appropriated by this or any other act shall 
be available for paying expenses of horses and carriages, or drivers 
therefor, for the personal use of any officer provided for by this or any 
other act other than the President of the United States, the heads of 
Executive Departments, and the Secretary to the President: Pro- 
vided, That this provision shall not apply to officials outside of the 
District of Columbia in the performance of their public duties. This 
paragi-aph shall not take effect until July first (nineteen hundred and 
four.' (Approved March 18, 1004; Statutes, XXXIII, 142.) 

No part of an}^ money appropriated by this act shall be used for 
purchase, maintaining, driving, or operating any carriage or other 
vehicle, other than those authorized for personal purposes in section 
two of the legislative, executive, and judicial appropriation act for 
the fiscal year nineteen hundred and five, unless the same shall have 
conspicuously painted thereon at all times the full name of the Execu- 
tive Department or other branch of the public service to whicli the 
same belong and in the service of which the same are used. (Ap- 
proved April 28, 1904; Statutes, XXXIII, 513.) 

SALARY PAY TABLE. 

That the annual compensation of officers, agents, and employees of 
the United States for services r(;mlered subsequent to June thirtieth, 
nineteen hundred and four, shall be divided into twelve equal install- 
ments, one of which shall be the pay for each calendar month; and in 
making payments for a fractional part of a month, one-thirtieth of 



ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRKSS. LXXIIl 

one of such iiistiilliiioiits, or of a inonlhly coiiijH'nsiitiou. shall he the 
rate to be i)ai(l I'or each day. For (he purpose of (•oiu])utiii*'- such 
compensation each and every month shall he held to consist of thirty 
days, without regai-d to (he actual number of days in any mouth, tluis 
excludin<2; the thirty-lirst day of any uiouth from the computation, 
and treating February as if it actually had thii-ty days. (Approved 
April -28, 1904: Statutes, XXXIIT, 51:3.) 

KENT OK WORKSHOPS, LOUISIANA PUKCIIASK EXPOSITION. 

Government Board, Louisiana Purchase Exposition: The act 
of Conoress ap})roved June twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and two, 
entitled ''An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of 
the (Jowrnment for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen 
hundred and three, and for other purposes," is hereby amended by 
inserting at the end and as a part of the paragraph making an appro- 
priation of eight hundred thousand dollars for a Government exhibit 
at (he Louisiana Purchase Exposition to be held in the city of Saint 
Louis, in the State of Missouri, the following words: ^"Proinded fur- 
ther^ That tlie said United States Government Pioard is authorized to 
rent such workshops and storage and oflice rooms in the District of 
Columbia as may be ixMpiired for temporary use in connection with 
(he preparation and safe-keeping of the said Government exhibit." 
And the accounting officers of the Treasury Department are hereby 
authorized to allow any reasonal)le expense heretofore incui-red by 
said Government Board in the rental of workshops and storage and 
office rooms in the District of Cohunbia for the purpose named. 
(Approved Fel)ruary 18, 1004; Statutes, XXXIII, 19.) 

LEWIS AND CLARK CENTENNIAL EXPOSITION. 

AN ACT to juithorize the (JovevniuGnt of the United States to participate in 
celebrating the one hundredth anniversary of the exploration of the Oregon 
country by Captains Meriwether Lewis and William Clark in the years eight- 
een hundi-ed and four, eighteen hundre<l and five, and eighteen hundred and 
six, and for other purposes. 

Whereas by an act duly passed by the legislature of the State of 
Oregon, approved January thirtieth, nineteen hinidred and three, 
said State authorized the holding at the city of Portland, Oregon, 
commencing May first, nineteen hundred and five, and ending 
November first, nineteen hundred and five, an industrial exposition 
to api)ropriately celebrate the one hundredth anniversary of the 
exploration of the Oregon counti-y by Captains Meriwether Lewis 
and William Clark, and '^ by means of said exhibition to benefit the 
people of the State of Oregon by way of the advertisement and 
development of its agricultural, horticultural, mineral, lumber, manu- 



LXXIV ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. 

factui'ing, shi})pinir, educatioiuil, and other resources" of said State; 
and 

Whereas under and by virtue of said act of the legishiture of the 
State of Oregon a commission consisting of eleven members, residents 
and inhabitants of said State, Avas authorized and appointed, known 
and designated as the Lewis and Clark Centennial Exposition Com- 
mission, and the Lewis and Clark Centennial and American I'acific 
Exposition and Oriental Fair, a corporation organized and existing 
under the laws of said State, have jointly undertaken the inaugura- 
tion of the I^ewis and Clark Centennial Exposition at said city of 
Portland, to be held undei- the joint supervision, control, and man- 
agement of said connnission and corporation, as j^rovided by said act; 
and 

AVliereas a number of States have enacted laws for and appropri- 
ated money to enable them to partici]:»ate in said exposition, and other 
States have signified their intention of so doing, and satisfactory 
assurances have been given by representatives of foreign governments 
that their governments will make interesting and instructive exhibits 
at said exposition illustrative of their material progress during the 
past century, and it is believed that the commerce of the United States 
in oriental and oceanic countries will be materially aided and devel- 
oped b}^ such exposition : Now, therefore, for the purpose of contrib- 
uting to the success of said exposition and enabling our insular posses- 
sions and also oriental and oceanic countries to exhibit of their prod- 
ucts and resources at said exposition. 

Be it enacted hy the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That all articles that 
shall be imported from foreign countries for the sole purpose of exhi- 
l)ition at said exposition upon which there shall be a tarifi' or customs 
duty shall be admitted free of the payment of duty, customs fees, or 
chiirges, under such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
prescribe; but it shall be lawful at any time during the exijosition to 
sell for delivei'v at the close thereof any goods or i)ro])erty imported 
for and actually on exhibition in the exposition buildings or on the 
gromids, subject to such regulations for the security of the revenue 
and for the collection of import duties as the Secretary of the Treas- 
ury may prescribe: Provided, That all such articles when sold or 
withdrawn for consumption in the United States shall be subject to 
the diity, if any, imposed upon such articles by the revenue laws in 
force at the date of withdrawal, and on articles which shall have suf- 
fered diminution or deterioration from incidental handling and neces- 
sary exposure the duty, if paid, shall be assessed according to the 
appraised value at the time of Avithdrawal for consumption, and the 
penalties prescribed by law shall be enfoi'ced against any person 
guilty of any illegal sale or withdrawal. 



ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. LXXV 

Sec. 2. That tlu'i-e sliall be exhihiled at. said exposition by tlu; 
Government of the United States from its Executive Departments, the 
Smithsonian Institution, the National Museum, and the T^ibi-ary of 
C'ouiiress sucli articles and material as illustrate the function and 
administrative faculty of the (jovernment in time of peace and its 
resources as a war power, tending to demonstrate the nature of our 
institutions and their adaptation to the wants of the ])eoi)le; and the 
Bureau of American Republics is hereby invited to make an exhibit 
illustrative of the resources and international relations of the Ameri- 
( an Kepublics, and space in the United States (iovernment building 
^hall be provided for that purpose, and to secure a complete and har- 
monious arrangement of such (xovernment exhibit a United States 
(iovernment boai-d shall be created, whose duty it shall be to select 
from the Government exhibit to be made by such Elxecutive Depart- 
ments at the city of Saint Louis, at the Louisiana Purchase Plxposi- 
tion, in the year nineteen hundred and four, such articles and things as 
they may deem advisable, and transport the same to the city of Port- 
land, Oregon, to be there exhibited as a part of the Government 
exhibit at said exposition ; and said United States Government boai-d 
shall also be charged with the selection, purchase, preparation, trans- 
portation, arrangement, safe-keeping, exhibition, and return of such 
additional articles and materials as the heads of the several depart- 
ments, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, the Director of 
the National Museum, the Librarian of Congress, and the Director 
of the Bureau of American Republics may respectively decide shall 
be embraced in said Government exhibit. And said Government 
board is hereby authorized to rent and use such building or buildings 
in the District of Columbia as may be necessary in the preparation 
of said exhibit. The President of the United States may also desig- 
nate additional articles for exhibition. Such Government board -^hall 
be composed of one person to be named by the head of each of the 
Executive Departments, one by the head of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion and National Museum, one by the Librarian of Congress, and one 
by the Director of the Bureau of American Republics. The l^resi- 
dent shall name one of said persons so detailed as chairman, and the 
board itself shall appoint its secretary, disbursing officer, and such 
other officers as it may deem necessary. The members of said (jrov- 
crnment board, with other officers and employees of the Government 
who may be detailed to assist them, including officers of the Army 
and Navy, shall receive no compensation in addition to their regular 
salaries, but they shall be allowed their actual and necessary trav- 
eling expenses, together with a per diem in lieu of subsistence, to be 
fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury, while necessarily absent from 
their homes engaged ui)()n the business of the board. Officers of the 
Armv and Navv shall receive said allowance in lieu of the subsistence 



LXXVI ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. 

and inileaao now allowed by law; and the Secretarv of War and the 
Secretary of the Navy may, in their discretion, detail retired army or 
navy officers for such duty. An}^ provision of hiAV which may prohibit 
the detail of persons in the employ of the United States to other service 
than that A\hich they customarily perform shall not apply to persons 
detailed for duty in connection Avith said Lewis and Clark Centen- 
nial Exposition. Employees of the board not otherwise employed 
by the Government shall be entitled to such compensation as the board 
may determine, and such employees may be selected and appointed 
b}^ said board. The disbursing officer shall give bond in such sum 
as the Secretary of the Treasury may determine for the faithful 
performance of his duties, said bond to be approved b}'' said Sec- 
retary. The Secretary of the Treasury shall advance to said offi- 
cer from time to time, under such regulations as the Secretary 
of the Treasury may prescribe, a sum of mone}' from the appro- 
priation for the Government exhibit herein authorized, not exceed- 
ing at an}' one time three-fourths of the penalty of his bond, to 
enable him to pay the expenses of said exhibit as authorized by 
the United States Government board herein created: Provided, That 
so much of the Government exhibit herein authorized as relates to 
forestry' and irrigation shall be made in a separate building, to 
be erected as hereinafter provided for that purpose, and said build- 
ing shall be known as the forestry and irrigation building, and 
shall be of sufficient size to accommodate forestry exhibits other 
than the United States forestry exhibits: And provided further^ That 
the cost of said exhibit herein authorized, including the selection, 
purchase, preparation, transportation, arrangement, safe-keeping, 
exhibition, and return of the articles and materials so exhibited, 
including the forestry and irrigation exhibit, and for rent of building 
or buildings in the District of Columbia, shall not exceed the sum 
of two hundred thousand dollars, which amount is hereby appropri- 
ated out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated. 

Sec. 3. That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to 
aid the inhabitants of the district of Alaska in providing and main- 
taining an appropriate and creditable exhibit of the products and 
resources of said district at the said Lewis and Clark Centennial 
Exposition, and for that purpose he is authorized to appoint one or 
more persons to supervise the selection, purchase, preparation, trans 
portation, arrangement, installation, safe-keeping, exhibition, and 
return of such articles as may be exhibited from said district at said 
exposition; and he is hereby authorized to select so much of the 
exhibit of the district of Alaska at the Louisiana Purchase Exposi- 
tion at the city of Saint Louis, in the year nineteen hundred and four, 
as he may deem necessary fo'r the purpose of making said exhibit at 



ACTS AND RESOLITTTONS OF TONGRESS. LXXVII 

the Lewis and (Mark Centennial Exposition, and lha( (ho cost of said 
exhibit of said district of Alaska, includin<r such selection, purchase, 
preparation, transportation. arran<jjenient, installation, safe-keeping, 
exhibition, and return of the articles so exhibited shall not exceed 
the sum of twenty-iive thousand dollars, which sum is hereby api)ro- 
[)riated out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appro- 
priated. 

Sec. 4. That the Secretary of the Treasury shall cause a suital)le 
building- or buildings to be erected on the site selected for the Lewis 
and Clark Centennial Exposition for the said Government exhibit, 
including a suitable building for an exhibit of the United States Life- 
Saving Servdce, the forestry and irrigation building herein referred 
to, and also cause to be erected a suitable building or buildings on 
said site for the use of the district of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, 
the Philippine Islands, and also oriental and oceanic countries that 
may desire an exhibit of their products and resources at said expo- 
sition. Said buildings shall be erected from plans prepared by the 
Supervising Architect of the Treasury, to be approved by said United 
States Government board; and the Secretary of the Treasury is 
hereby authorized and directed to contract for said buildings in the 
same manner and under the same regulations as for other public 
buildings of the L^nited States, but the contract for said buildings 
and the preparation of grounds therefoi- and the lighting thereof, 
inclusive, shall not exceed the sum of twT) hundred and fifty thousand 
dollars, which sum is hereby appropriated out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated. The Secretary of the Treasury 
is authorized and required to dis})ose of said buildings, or the mate- 
rials composing the same, at the close of the exposition, giving prefer- 
ence to the city of Portland, or to the said Lewis and Clark Centen- 
nial and American and Pacific Exposition and Oriental Fair cor- 
poration, to purchase the same at an appraised value to be ascertained 
in such manner as the Secretary of the Treasury may determine. 

Sec. 5. That the allotment of space for exhibitors in the l)uilding 
or buildings erected under authority of this act for the use of the dis- 
trict of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, the Philippine Islands, and 
also for the use of oriental and oceanic countries, including the sj)ace 
not occupied by the Government board in tUe forestry and irrigation 
building, shall be done and performed without charge to exhibitors 
by the Government board authorized by section two of this act. 

Sec. C). That upon the approval of this act the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall, upon the request of the Lewis and Clark Centennial 
and American Pacific Exposition and Oriental Fair Com])any. cause 
to be coined at the mints of the United States not to exceed two hun- 
dred and fifty thousand gold dollars, of legal weight and fineness, to 



LXXVIIt ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OP CONGRESS. 

be Icnown as the Lewis and Clark Exposition gold dollar, struck in 
commemoration of said exposition. The words, devices, and designs 
upon said gold dollars shall be determined and prescribed by the Sec- 
retary of the Treasury, and all provisions of law relative to the coin- 
age and legal-tender quality of all other gold coin shall be applicable 
to the coin issued under and in accordance with the provisions of this 
act. That the said coins shall be disposed of by the Secretary of the 
Treasury to the said Lewis and Clark Centennial and American Pa- 
cific Exposition and Oriental Fair Company at par, under rules and 
regulations and in amounts to be prescribed by him. That medals 
with appropriate devices, emblems, and inscriptions commemorative 
of said Lewis and Clark Centennial Exposition and of the awards to 
be jnade to the exhibitors thereat shall be prepared b}^ the Secretary 
of the Treasury at some mint of the United States for the board of 
directors of said exposition company, subject to the provisions of the 
fifty-second section of the coinage act of eighteen hundred and ninety- 
three, and upon the payment of a sum not less than the cost thereof ; 
and all provisions, whether penal or otherwise, of said coinage act 
against the counterfeiting or imitating of coins of the United States 
shall apply to the medals issued under this act. 

Sec. 7. That the United States shall not be liable on account of said 
exposition for any expense incident to or growing out of the same 
except for the construction of the building or buildings hereinbefore 
authorized and for the purpose of j)aying the expense incident to the 
selection, preparation, purchase, installation, transportation, care, 
custody, and safe return of the exhibits made by the Government, and 
for the employment of proper persons as officers and assistants by 
the Government board created by this act and for other expenses, 
and for the maintenance of said building or buildings and other con- 
tingent expenses, to be approved by the chairman of the Government 
board, or, in the event of his absence or disability, by such officer as 
the board may designate, and the Secretary of the Treasury, upon 
itemized accounts and vouchers: Provided, That no liability against 
the Government shall be incurred and no expenditure of money ap- 
propriated by this act shall be made until the officers of said exposi- 
tion shall have furnished to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the 
Treasury proof that there has been obtained for the purpose of com- 
pleting and opening said exposition bona fide subscriptions to the 
stock of said exposition company by responsible parties, contributions, 
donations, or a[)])i'opriations, from all sources, a sum aggregating not 
less than six hundred thousand dollars. 

Sec. 8. That the United States shall not in any maimer or under 
any circumstances he. lialile for any of the a(;ts, doings, or repre- 
sentations of said Lewis and Clark Centennial and American Pacific 



ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF ("0N(;RKSS. LXXTX 

Ex])ositi()n niul ()i-i('nl:il Fair, or (he coininission crcalod by the act 
of the lo^islatuiv of the State of Oregon, herein refei'red to, their 
otlicers. aaciits, servants, or employees, or any of them, or for service, 
sahiries, hihor, or \va<!:es of said officers, a<>:ents, servants, or eni[)loyees, 
or any of tliem. or for any subscriptions to thv' capital stock, or for 
any stock certilicates, bonds, mort«>a^'es, or oblia'ations of any kind 
issued by said corporation or said conunission, or for any debts, lia- 
bilities, or expenses of any kind or nature whatever attendin*^ such 
exposition corporation or commission, or accruin<; })v reason of the 
same. 

Sec. J). That nothing- in this act shall be construed so as to create 
any liability upon the part of the United States, direct or indirect, 
for any debt or obli<iation incurred, or for any chiini for aid or 
pecuniary assistance from Congress or the Treasury of the United 
States in support or li(juidation of any debts or obligations created 
by said United States (Tovernment board in excess of appropriations 
hereafter made by Congress therefor. (Approved, April 13, 1904; 
Statutes, XXXIli, 175.) 



REPORT 

OF 

S. p. LANGLEY, 

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 



FOR THE 



YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1904. 



To the Board of Regent f< of the SiiiitJisonian hi.stltation. 

Gentlemen: I have the honor to present herewith my report, show- 
ing the operations of the Institution during the year ending pJune HO, 
l!)04, including the work phiced under its direction by Congress in the 
Tnited States National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology, 
the International Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, and the 
Astroph3'sical Observatory. 

Following the precedent of several years, there is given, in the body 
of this report, a general account of the affairs of the Institution and 
its bureaus, while the Appendix presents more detailed statements })y 
the persons in direct charge of the different l)ranches of the work. 
Independently of this, the operations of the National Museum are 
fully treated in a separate volume of the Smithsonian Report, and the 
Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology constitutes a volume 
prepared under the supervision of the Chief of that Bureau. The 
scientific work of the Astrophysical 0})servatory is recorded in occa- 
sional publications. 

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTPrUTION. 

THE ESTABLISHMENT. 

By act of Congress approved August 10, 1846, the Smithsonian 
Institution was created an Establishment. Its statutory members are 
the President, the Vice-President, the Chief Justice of the United 
States, and the heads of the Executive Departments. The preroga- 
tiv(j of the Establishment is "the super.vision of the att'airs of the 
Institution and the advice and the instruction of the Board of Regents." 
»M 1904 1 1 



2 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

A vacancy continues to exi.st in the Establishment caused b}' the 
succession to the Presidenc}^ of Vice-President Roosevelt. 

As organized on June 30, 190-i, the Establishment consisted of the 
following ex officio members: 

Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States. 

(Vacancy), Yice- President of the United States. 

Melville W. 'Fvia.ts.u, Chief Justice of the United States. 

John Hay, Secretary of State. 

Leslie M. Shaw, Secretary of the Treasury. 

AViLLiAM H. Taft, Secretary of War. 

Philander C. Knox, Attorney- General. 

Heney C. Pay^ne, Postmaster- General. 

William H. Moody, Secretary of the Navy . 

Ethan Allen Hitchcock, Secretary of the Interior. 

James Wilson, Secretary of Agriculture. 

George V>. Cortely'ou, Secretary of Commerce and Pahor. 

organization of the board of regents. 

The Board of Regents consists of the Vice-President and the Chief 
Justice of the United States as ex officio members, three membei's of 
the Senate, three members of the House of Representatives, and six 
citizens, "two of whom shall be residents of the city of Washington 
and the other four shall be inhabitants of some State, but no two of 
them of the same State." 

As organized at the end of the fiscal .year, the Board consisted of the 
following mem))ers: 

The Hon. M. W. Fuller, Chief Justice of the United States, Chan- 
cellor; the Hon. W. P. Fiye, President pro tempore of the United 
States Senate, acting as Regent; Senator S. M. Cullom; Senator O. H. 
Piatt; Senator Francis M. Cockrell; Representative R. R. Hitt; Rep- 
resentative Robert Adams, jr.; Representative Hugh A. Dinsmore; 
Dr. James B. Angell, of Michigan; Dr. Andrew D. White, of New 
York; the Hon. J. B. Henderson, of Washington City; Prof. A. Gra- 
ham Bell, of Washington Cit^'; the Hon. Richard Olnej, of Massachu- 
setts, and the Hon. (jeorge Gray, of Delaware. 

meetings of the board of regents. 

At a meeting of the Board of Regents held March 12, 1903, the fol- 
lowing resolution was adopted: 

'"''Pesolved, That in addition to the prescribed meeting held on the 
fourth Wednesday in Jamiary, regular meetings of the Board shall be 
held on the Tuesday after the first Monday in December and on the 
6th day of March, unless that date falls on Sunday, when the follow- 
ing Monday shall be substituted/' 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 6 

In iiccordance with the above resolution the Boaid nid on Dccciii- 
ber H, i;>()3, Jaiuuiry 27, 1904, and March 7, l!K)4. 

The foHowin<i' is an a1)stra('t of its pr()cee(iin«>"s, which latter will be 
found in the annual I'cpoi't of the Hoai'd to Conorc.ss: 

Heijuhir mei'timj of Dccinnhcr S, 190.i. 

Senator Piatt and the ChanccHor made statements with ret^-ai'd to the 
new buildino- for the National Museum, and th(^ Secretary r(>ad a i'(>port 
which showed vhat with the advice and consent of the Chancellor and 
the chairman of the executive committee, as required by the resolution 
of the Board adopted iVrarch 12, 1908, a contract had l»een made, under 
date of May 18, 1908, with Messrs. Horn])lower & Marshall, architects, 
of Washington, D. C, for the necessary architectural services. 

With reo-ard to the special report of the executive committee as sub- 
mitted by Doctor Bell, and the reportof the special conmiittee which was 
read at leng-th by the Chancellor, the Board, after discussion, adopted 
resolutions providinu" for the printintif of these reports and thcMr dis- 
tribution to the members of the Board. 

The Secretary presented the compilation of laws which had ])een 
prepared in accordance with a I'esolution offered ])v Senator Cockrell 
at the uieeting- of March 12, 1908, and the manuscript was referred to 
Senator Cockrell for his examination and decision as to printing. 

The Secretary read letters from the Hon. William Henry Bisliop, 
United States consul at Cenoa, Italy, and from the conmiittee of the 
British burial ground fund, explaining the urgency of action with 
regard to the removal of the remains of James Smithson. 

Doctor Bell renewed the proposition which he made at the last 
meeting that the remains of Smithson be brought to this countrv 
at his expense, and after discussion the Board adopted the following 
resolutions: 

'"''Resolved, That Dr. A. Graham Bell be appointed as a committee 
to take charge of the matter of the removal of the remains of .Tames 
Smithson from Genoa to Washington, with the request that the nego- 
tiations and removal be conducted quietly and privately. 

"Be.solred, That upon the conclusion of this duty all expenses in- 
volved b}' it be reimbursed to Doctor Bell from the funds of the 
Institution.'- 

ANNUAL MEETING OF JANUARY 27, 1904. 

The Secretary announced that on January 12 the Speaker of the 
House had reai)pointed Kepresentatives Hitt, Adams, and Dinsinoreas 
Regents for two years; and also that Senator Henderson and Dr. A. 
Graham Bell had l)een reappointed for a term of six years by joint 
resolution approved ])y the President flanuar^" 27, 1*904. 

The usual resolution relative to income and expenditure was adopted, 
and the Secretary presented his annual report of the operations of the 



4 REPORT OF THE SECRP:TARY. 

Institution iuul its scA-oral dependencies for the fiscal year endino- June 

3U, vjm. 

The Board adopted the annual report of the executive committee to 
the same date, showing- in detail the financial condition of the Institu- 
tion. 

Senator Henderson, chairman of the permanent committee, made 
statements in regard to the proposed l)e(iu(^sts of Addison T. Reid and 
Joseph White Sprague; also concerning the will of Wallace C. Andrews, 
and the present status of the Hodgkins and Avery funds. He further 
reported u])on the expenditures incurred l)y the Secretary since the 
last annual meeting, in continuing his experiments in mechanical 
fiight under the authority of the Board. 

The Secretary made a statement concerning the publications in 
l)reparation by the Institution and also with regard to aerodromic 
experiments carried on bv him. 

He reported that Congress, under a clause of the sundry civil act, 
approved March 8, 1903, had authorized the erection of a new build- 
ing for the National Museum at a cost not to exceed $3,500,000. 

He spoke of the work of the Bureau of American Ethnology and of 
his eti'orts to place the Bureau upon a sound administrative footing. 
He recalled previous eti'orts to secure a law for the protection of 
anti(|uities on th*^ puVdic domain, and urged present action. The 
Board thereupon adopted a resolution to that etiect. 

The Secretary reported upon the work of the International 
P^xchanges, the National Zoological Park, and the Astrophysical 
Observatory. 

The report of the special committee to consider the question of 
defining the duties of the executive committee was sul)mitted by the 
Chancellor, l)ut action thereupon was deferred until the meeting of 
March 7. 

At the evening session of this meeting Dr. A. Graham Bell sub- 
mitted in full his report upon the removal of James Smithson's 
remains from (Jenoa to Washington, which is on tile with the records 
of the Board and a lengthy a])stract of which will be found on pag-e 7. 

After remarks, the Board adopted the following resolutions: 

" Besolved, That the Board of Reg-ents desire to record in the min- 
utes of the Institution their profound appreciation of the voluntary 
service of Dr. Alexander Graham Bell in personally going to Genoa 
and returning with the remains of James Smithson that they might 
find a resting place in the grounds of the Institution he so nobly 
founded 'for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.' 

" Resolved, That the ChanciMlor and the Secretary, with the members 
of the executive committee, be appointed a conunittee upon the (pies- 
tion of the final disposition of the remains of Jairies Smithson and of 
the monument to be erected to him, with power to act in the entire 
matter." 



RKPOUT OF THK SECRETARY. 

HEGUI.AK MEI-:TIN(; ok MAK( 11 7, I'.IOI. 

The ChiiiHclloi- ivad in full tho report of the special committee 
:i})p()int(Ml to consider the ([uestion of detininj^ the powers of the 
exei'utive coniniittee. which was very fully discussed and adopted. 

Doctor Bell then read the special report of the executive committee 
as presented by him nt the meetino- of December 8, 1903. After dis- 
cussion the Board iidopted Senator Cullom's motion that action on the 
report be iiuh^tinitely postponed. 

Th(» r(»port of tlu^ special committee on the disposition of the remains 
of James Sniithson, in which it was recommended that a tittino- tomb 
should be erected in the grounds of the Institution and that Congress 
be re(iu(>sted to make an adequate appropriation for it, was sul)mitted. 
After remarks the report was adopted with the understanding that the 
committee was to pursue the subject still further. 

The Secretary l)rought before the Board the matter of the will of 
the late Harriet Lane Johnston, who left a number of paintings to the 
Corcoran Gallery of Art until a national gallery of art should l)e estal)- 
lished by the Government. The Corcoran Gallery had declined the 
pictures under these conditions, and the Secretary had been addressed 
with regard to the probal)ility of the Government establishing such 
a gallery of art under the Smithsonian Institution. The matter was 
referred to the executive committee. 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 

The Institution has been for more than half a century one of the 
most important agencies in the intellectual life of the American people. 
It has furnished a center for workers in every department of scientific 
and educational activity, and it has ))een the chief agency for the free 
exchange of books, apparatus of research, and of scientific intelligence 
between this and other countries. Its publications, which include 
more than 250 volumes, are to be found in all of the important libraries 
of the world, and some of them on the woik table of every scientific 
investigator. Its library constitutes an important ]nirt of the Libiary 
of Congress, and its museum is the rarest in existence in many branches 
of the natural history and ethnology of the New World. 

For nearly sixty years it has been in constant cooperation with the 
Government, Avitii public institutions, and with individuals in every 
enterprise, scientific or educ-ational, which needed its advice, support, 
or aid. The appreciation of the woi-k of the Institution by the Ameri- 
can people is best testified by their representatives in Congress. This 
has been clearly demonstrated through many successive terms regard- 
less of political change; by the judgment with which their representa- 
tives upon the Board of Regents are selected; ))y the care by which 
.they protect the Institution in its freedom from political entangle- 



6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

monts; by the discriininatioii with M'hich.the reports are distributed, 
and by numerous evidences of interest and liberalit3\ 

The objects of the Institution were defined by the founder in the 
t)roadest possibU^ terms, and interpreted by its first Secretary, Joseph 
Henry, in the words "to assist men of science in making original 
researches, to publish them in a series of volumes, and to give a copy 
of them to ever}^ first-class librar}' on the face of the earth/' While 
the lield has ))een of necessity narrowed from time to time, or diverted 
in first one direction and then another, the breadth of scope has never 
l)een narrowed. That many of the eft'orts have grown so large as to 
re(iuire either direct support of the Government by the establishment 
of independent bureaus, finally coming under the direction of the 
Executive Departments, or aid to agencies which continue under the 
direction of the Institution, though sustained by Congressional appro- 
priation, is but a further evidence of the fact that the charter of the 
Institution has been adhered to both in the spirit and in the letter. 
The Tnited States Weather Bureau, the Geological Survey, the Fish 
Commission, and the National Herbarium grew out of its earlier activi 
ties, and the National Museum, the International Exchanges, the 
Bureau of American Ethnology, the Zoological Park, and the Astro- 
physical Observatory are still directed by it. It led the way in the 
organization of lil)rary work in the United States; it took the initial 
steps and continues to support schemes for international cataloguing, 
and it maintains a benevolent relation with the American Historical 
Association and the National Society of the Daughters of the Ameri- 
can Revolution. 

Sixty 3^ears ago it was relatively the best endowed scientific institu- 
tion in the United States and one of two or three of national scope. 
The magnificent endowments in this time of so many universities and 
colleges have changed this relationship to one of pecuniar}^ inferiority, 
yet without changing the nature of the Institution's relations to these. 
To the oi'ganizations aiding in the scientific advancement of the 
country, which advancement has in large measure contributed to the 
material W'elfare of the United States, the interests ])enefited thereby 
have in return made large endowments for original research either 
through the great universities and societies of the land or by the 
establishment of new academies, institutions, and nmseums. To all 
of these the Smithsonian Institution holds out a friendly cooperation, 
its aim being, while continuing its own work upon its accepted lines 
and adapting them to new needs as occasion arises, to continue along 
the established policy of preventing ri\alries, promoting wise cooper- 
ation, diminishing waste, and furthering the search for knowledge, 
the recording of discovered truth, and its dissemination among the 
people. 

It must at no time be forgotten, however, that the Institution, of 
which the Government is trustee, was not limited either by the founder 



REPORT OP THE SECRETARY. 7 

or by Congress to the people of the United States, but was desioned 
for all men. ' The spreadinoabi-oad of the work don(> by scicMititic men 
in this country, the l>rin,oiiio- to the knowledge of our own workers 
the researches of men of othei- lands, the aidinj>- in international con- 
uress(^s which take ))lace fi'om time to time in various countries, the 
l)romotion, in short, of friendl}^ relations and useful cooperation 
among- scientific men the world over, and the advice and support to 
our Government in such relations wherever possible, may be counted 
in no small measure among the important works Avhich the Institution 
is carrying on. 

THK REMOVAL OF THE KEMAINS OB' JAMKS 8MITHSON. 

The remains of James Smithson, founder of the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution, who died June 27, 1829, at Genoa, Italy, were deposited in the 
little cemetery belonging to the English church, on the heights of San 
Henigno, a solitary spot planted with cypress trees, and looking down 
ui)on the Gulf of Genoa. In 1891 the Secretary of the Institution 
visited the grave, and, with the approval of the regents, deposited with 
the secretary of the English church fund a small sum to invest in Italian 
5 per cent rents, for its perpetual care. It was visited on two later 
occasions by the Secretary, who placed a bronze tablet containing a 
bas-relief of Smithson, in the English church, and one also at the 
toml), whence it was subsequently stolen. 

In previous reports mention has been made of the suggested removal 
of the remains of Mr. Smithson to America, in view of the probability 
that before many years the site of the cemetery might be required by 
the Italian authorities. In accordance with the resolution of the 
Regents adopted December 8, 1903 (see p. 3), appointing him a com- 
mittee to take charge of the removal of the the remains from Genoa 
to Washington, Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, accompanied by Mrs. 
Bell, sailed on the 15th of December for the port of Cherbourg in 
France, and going thence to Genoa, commenced at once the arrange- 
ments for the transfer of the remains, arrangements which would have 
occupied a quite indefinite time and incurred a corresponding delay 
except for the aid given by the United States consul, Mr. William 
Henry Bishop, which Dr. Bell gladly acknowledges. 

On opening the tomb in the presence of Dr. Bell, the United States 
consul, Noel Lees, esq. (official representative of the British Burial 
(h-ound Fund Association), and other witnesses, it was found that the 
remains of Smithson, represented by the skeleton, wei-e in fair preser- 
vation, although the wooden coffin in which they had been inclosed 
had molded away. The remains were placed in a metal casket and 
deposited in the mortuary chapel of the cemetery, where they rested 
until January 2, when the casket was inclosed in a collin of strong 
wood and covered with the American flag by Consul Bishop. On this 



REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

occasion Doctor Bell. Mr. Bishop, and tlie other witnesses again 
assembled and the following remarks were made: 

REMARKS BY WILLIAM HKNKY KISHOP, ESQ., CNITED STATES CONSUL. 

Dr. Alexander Graham Bell: You arrivetl. here, my dear Dr. Graham Bell, 
charged by the iSinithyonian Institution with the mission of removing to Washington 
the remains of the founder of that Institution, James Smithson, who has been buried 
till now in the cemetery where we stand since his death at Genoa in the year 1829. 
Having been invited by you and by the Smithsonian Institution to aid you, to what 
extent I might be able, in this object, it has been a matter of great pride and pleas- 
ure to me that I have been allowed to do so. 

All the steps necessary to such removal have now been taken. We have received 
the authorization of the governmental heads of the province, the city, and the British 
Burial Ground Fund, in which latter the title to the cemetery and the custody of the 
grave of James Smithson are vested, and all of these have kindly cooperated with us 
in the work. 

The body of James Smithson has now been reverently raised from the earth; it 
has been placed in a case securely sealed, and this case stands ready to pass into the 
charge of the steamship company which will convey it to New York. 

I assure you that it is with a feeling of real emotion that I have just now cast the 
American flag over the body of this illustrious man, this nol)le but as yet little 
known benefactor, as it is on the verge of beginning its journey to the United States. 
The flag adopts him already, as it were, in the substance, for our country, to which 
he lias so long belonged in the spirit. He is now about to receive there a portion of 
the outward veneration and homage he so supremely merits, and which, owing to 
the modest circmnstances of his life, and his interment here in some sense almost 
forgotten, he has never had. 

Shall I admit that on taking possession of my post as consul at Genoa I did not 
even know who James Smithson was? I may say that I was surprised to learn that 
he was buried at Genoa; more surprised still that he was an Englishman, who had 
never even set foot in America. He left his great l)equest to the United States, then 
in its infancy, through admiring confidence in our future. It is Tikely that many, or 
even most, Americans are in the same condition as was I myself; for occasion has 
rarely arisen for taking thought as to the personality of the man. Happily this unen- 
lightened condition of mind is about to cease. 

Dr. Graham Bell, I wish you a hearty God-speed across the ocean with your 
precious freight. The American people will receive it with general gratification, 
and, through the Smithsonian Institution, will soon delight to pay it great honor. 

RESPONSE BY DR. ALEXANDER CKAHAM BELL. 

Mr. Consul: It is with feelings of deep emotion that I undertake the transporta- 
tion of the' remains of James Smithson from the cemetery where they have so long 
reposed to their last resting place in the United States. 

On behalf of the Smithsonian Institution allow me to thank you, Mr. Consul, for 
the unwearied zeal and care with which you have given me your assistance. With- 
out your active cooj)eration and without your personal sympathy it would have been 
difhcult, indeed, for me to have accomplished the object of my mission here. 

On behalf of the Smithsonian Institution I beg to thank you, too, Mr. Noel Lees, 
for your courtesy and attention, and trust that you will convey to His British 
Majesty's consul-general and to the conunittee of the British Burial Ground Fund 
my thanks, and the thanks of the Institution I represent, for their ready assistance 
in furthering my mission. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9 

The riiiti'd States of America will inoviile, in Wasluri<,'ton, 1). ("., a suitable and 
pennaiieiit restinu' place I'm- the ri'inaiiis of Iut <ireat benefactor, James SmitliKon, 
throu.^h the instrumentality of tiu' Smithsonian Institution, the establishment 
created by tiie (iovernment to jjerpetuate his name. 

HKMAHKS liY NOKl. I.KKS, HSCJ. 

Dr. (tRah.am Bi:i-l: 1 beg to thank you heartily for the words you have said with 
regard to the aid you have received from the burial board and myself. Although 
we regret to lose the remains of James Smithson, we at the same time feel that in the 
country to wiiich he left his money, with such charitable intent, his remains will 
receive the honor and glory which have so long been due to them, and we must 
understand that our loss is America's gain. To us it will always remain a pleasant 
memory that, from the date of his burial to the present day, we have had in our cus- 
tody in this i)ictures(|ue little churchyard, the remains of a man whose foresight and 
kindness have enabled so many in the New World to V)enefit. 

On the conclusion of these renitirks the reiniiins were phiced on 
board the steamer Prlncim Irene, of the North ( Jerinan Lloyd Com- 
pany, which brought them to Am(>rica in the personal charge of Dr. 
Bell, the vessel reachino- New York on the morning of .lanuary 20. 
By direction of the President of the United States, the V. S. S. De>l- 
phin met the Princess Irene in the lower bay and escorted her up the 
harbor. 

In the presence of \}\:. Bell and the Secretary of the InstitiUion, the 
remains were transferred to a naval tug- and conveyed to the Dolphin., 
and in the continued charge of Dr. Bell were In-ought to AVashington, 
arriving at the Navy-Yard on Saturday, January 23. 

On Monday the 25th the remains were transported by the naval 
authorities, with suitable ceremonies, to the navy -yard gate, where 
they were taken in charge by a cavalry escort furnished ])y the War 
Department, and, accompanied by Assistant Secretary of State Loomis, 
representing the President, ))y the British ambassador, the Regents 
and the Secretary of the Institution, tuul the president of the Board of 
Commissioners of the District of Columbia, they were conveyed to 
the Smithsonian Institution, where the coffin, draped in the American 
and British tiags, was deposited in the center of the main hall of the 
building. 

Dr. Bell, addressing Senator Frye in behalf of the Regents, said: 

Mr. Senator: I have the honor to hand over to the Smithsonian Institution the 
mortal remains of its founder, James Smithson, a Fellow of the Royal Society of 
London, England, who died in Genoa, Italy, on the 27th of June, 1829. 

For nearly seventy-live years the body of Smithson has reposed in an almost for- 
gotten grave in the picturesque little British cemetery on the heights of San Beningo, 
in Genoa. City improvements have led to the expropriation of this cemetery and 
removal of the remains, and at the last meeting of the board of regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution I was appointed a committee to arrange for the transfer of the 
remains of Smithson to this country. On my arrival in Genoa every facility was 
afforded me for the accomplishment of my mission by the provincial and municipal 
authorities, by His British Majesty's consul-general, Mr. Keene; by the committee 
of the British Burial Fund Association, in which is vested the ownership of the 



10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

cemetery, as well as by our own consul, Mr. William Henry Bishop, to whom I am 
much indebted for his valued services. 

On the 31st of December, 1903, the tomb of Smithson was opened in my presence, 
as the representative of the Smithsonian Institution, and in the presence of the 
American consul and six other witnesses. The remains of Smithson were reverently 
raised from the grave and placed in a metallic casket, over which the consul of the 
United States cast the American flag, while the witnesses stood around with uncov- 
ered heads. The casket was then left in the mortuary chapel of the cemetery, 
securely sealed and under guard, until the 2d of January, when it was placed in a 
coftin of strong wood, as demanded by Italian law, and was then transported to the 
North (ierman Lloyd steamship Princess Irene, accompanied by the American consul 
and myself. 

The steamer sailed from Genoa on the 7th of January, and upon arrival in the 
United States, the remains of Smithson were received with national honors by direc- 
tion of the President, and of the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of War. 

The remains were brought to Washington on board the U. S. dispatch boat Dol- 
jMn, and have been escorted to the Smithsonian Institution by United States cavalry. 

And now, Mr. Senator, my mission is ended, and I deliver into your hands, as the 
representative of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, the remains 
of this great benefactor of the United States. 

Senator Fr3'e replied: 

Sir: The Smithsonian Institution receives with profound gratitude the remains of 
its distinguished founder. Providence, every now and then, seems to place in the 
world a man and inspires him with a purpose to elevate his fellow men. Such a 
man was Mr. Smithson, the founder of this Institution. The spirit, sir, which 
prompted you to such earnest endeavor, resulting as it did in taking these remains 
from their resting place in a country foreign to him and foreign to us, and bringing 
them here where for so many years we have enjoyed the rich fruits of his splendid 
benefaction, your countrymen will appreciate. His grave here will be an incentive 
to earnest, faithful, wise, and discreet endeavor to carry out Iiis lofty purposes, and, 
sir, it will be to our people a sacred si)ot while the Repuljlic endures. 

The i)rief but inipi-essive ceremonies of the occasion conchtded with 
the following prayer, offered by the Rev. Dr. Randolph H. McKiin: 

Almighty God, eternal source of light and truth, by whose wise providence all 
things in heaven and earth are governed, we give thee thanks that thou didst put 
into the heart of thy servant whose dust we receive with reverence here to-day, to 
lay the foundation of this school of science, and we pray thee that it may more and 
more be instrumental in the true interpretation of the laws of nature, and in unveil- 
ing to the mind of man the glory of God in the work of his hands, to the end that 
for all the generations to come this Institution may be a beacon light of truth and of 
progress, to the glory of God and to the good of mankind. All this we beg through 
Him by whom all things were made, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

The remains rest temporarily in a room which contains the few per- 
sonal relics of Smithson, until their final disposal by the Regents. 

ADMINISTRATION. 

In view of the ever-increasing responsi))ilities imposed upon the 
Institution, both by the administration of its own fund and the several 
dependencies placed by Congress under its direction, a .system has 
been from year to year carefully worked out, which, while retaining 



REPORT OB' THK SKCRETARY. 1 1 

in a (-(Mitnil ()flic(> iiiidcr tlio Secretan's supci'visioii. the yononil plan 
of t!ie whole Iiistitulion, has ivruion'd it j)ractical)h' to h>av(> tlic cariy- 
iiiu- out of details to those in inmiediate char*;-!' of tiie work of the 
bureaus. I record with gratitude the ever-iiu reasiuo- uid iciideied nio 
l»v the Keo-eiits, as evidenced not only through the increased amount 
of time oiven to tlie policy of the Institution, l)ut by their advice and 
help in all matters, whether of })oli('y or aihninist ration, in which their 
aid has been sought. 

HUILDINCS. 

Theceilin*;-o^ the large anthropoloj^ical hall in the main Smithsonian 
building has been practically reconstructed and the hall has been 
painted and decorated anew. There has thus been practically made 
available for use the largest smglc exhibition hall in the building, and 
it is expected that the valuable archieological collections of the Institu- 
tion will be seen to better advantage than ever before. It is to be 
regretted that the uncomfortable tread of the steps and the'absence of 
an elevator may deter many persons from visiting this very attractive 
room. 

The repairs to the roof of the main Smithsonian building have been 
completed, and much-needed repairs were also made to the roof of the 
Museum building. 

FINANCES. 

The permanent funds of the Institution are as follows: 

Bequest of Sinithson, 1846 1515, 169. 00 

Residuary legacy of Smithson, 1867 26, 210. 63 

Deposit from savings of income, 1867 l'-^8, 620. 37 

Bequest of James Hamilton, 1875 3^1, 000. 00 

Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895 1, 000. 00 

2, 000. 00 

Bequest of Simeon Habel, 1880 •'^OO- 00 

Deposit from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1 881 51 , 500. 00 

Gift of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1891 200, 000. 00 

Portion of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894 8, 000. 00 

Deposit from savings of income, 1903 25, 000. 00 

Total permanent fund 937, 000. 00 

The above fund is deposited in the Treasury of the United States 
and bears interest at 6 per cent per annum under the provisions of the 
act organizing the Institution and act of Congress approved March 12, 
1894. In addition to the pernumcnt fund, the Regents hold ceitain 
approved railroad bonds which form part of the fund established by 
Mr. Hodgkins for investigations into the properties of atmospheric air. 
■ At the beginning of the fiscal year, July 1, 1908, the balance, as 
stated in my last report, was |55,507.()7. During the year the total 
receipts by the Institution were 168,435. 5(5. Of this sum, $57,754.17 
was derived from the interest and the remaining $10,681.39 was 
received from miscellaneous sources. 



12 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Tho disbursements dunng the yeai- amounted to 177,294.90, the 
details of Avhich are given in the report of the executive committee. 
The balance remaining to the credit of the Secretary' on June 30, 1904, 
for the expenses of the Institution was $46,648.33. A considerable 
part of this l)alanee is held against certain contingent obligations which 
may be expected to mature as a result of various scientific investiga- 
tions and publications in progress. 

During the fiscal year 1904, tlie Institution Avas charged by Con- 
gress with the dis)»ursement of the following appropriations: 

International Exchanges $26, 000 

American Ethnology - 40, 000 

Astrophysioal Observatory 15, 000 

United States National ^Museum: 

Furniture and fixtures $22, 500 

Heating and lighting 18, 000 

Preservation of collections 180, 000 

Purchase of specimens 10, 000 

Postage 500 

Books 2, 000 

Rent of workshops 4, 400 

Repairs to Ijuildings 15, 000 

Printing '. 17, 000 

269, 400 

National Zoological Park 95, 000 

Total 445, 400 

The following estimates were forwarded, as usual, to the Secretary 
of the Treasury for carrying on the Government's interests under the 
charge of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1905. 
This table shows the estimates and sums respectively appropriated: 



Estimates. 



Appropria- 
tions. 



InttTiiational Exchanges 

American Etlinology 

Astropiiysical OI)scrvatory 

National Mtisenni: 

Furniture and fixtures 

Heating and ligliting 

Preservation of collections 

Purchase of specimens 

Boolvs 

Postage 

Building repairs , 

Kent of workshops 

Sunday and night opening 

Building for Natioiuil Museum 

National Zoological Park 

Readjustment of boundaries Zoological Park 

Total 



^-Ki, 000 

r>o, 000 

15,000 



.wo 

000 
000 
000 
000 
500 
000 
580 
000 



■297,580 

;!00, 000 

18.5,000 
00, 000 



S-i", 000 
■10, 000 
15,000 



883, 580 



$22, 500 

18,000 

180,000 



2,000 

500 

15,000 

4,580 



2-12, 580 

>)5. 000 

419, 580 



REPORT OF THE SECRET A KY. 18 



RESEARCH. 



It was a part of the orioinal plan of the Institution that its Secrotaiy 
should not j>'ivo his time wholly to administrative duties^ l)ut should 
directly aid in its seientitie investio-jitions." 

Research work in various fields of science has been continued by the 
Institution and its depeiidencies. 

I have made some proo-ress toward the solution of the problem of 
mechanical tlit>ht, and have been carrying- on, with the consent of the 
Regents, some experiments for the War Department, at its expense, 
and have addeil other experiments, partly at the expense of the 
Institution. Owing to an accident to the launching apparatus it was 
not possible to make a satisfactory test of the ferodrome, and the 
exhaustion of available funds has compelled the a))andonment, at least 
temporarily, of the experiments. 

In the Astrophysical Observatory I have continued work believed 
to be important, and inaugurated some experiments of novel interest, 
which are referred to later. 

Through the Museum and the Bureau of American Ethnolog}' the 
Institution has been enabled to carry on various biological, geological, 
and ethnological researches, which will be found fully described else- 
where in this report and need not ))e repeated here. 



HODGKINS FUND. 



Series of experiments conducted with the aid of grants from the 
Hodg'kins fund of the Institution are still in progress. Among those 
sufficiently advanced to permit publication, the investigations of Dr. 
Carl Barns may be mentioned. Two memoirs detailing the earlier 
results of these experiments have already been issued in the Smith- 
sonian Contributions to Knowledge, and a third report is now 
awaited, which will record experiments on the ionization and nuclea- 
tion of air in contact with phosphorus and with water nuclei. Other 
interesting data in regard to the diffusion of vapor into nucleated air, 
periodic color distribution in coronas, etc., will be given in this 
memoir, which will probably be issued during the present year. 

Dr. E. W. Scripture, of Yale University, to whom a grant was 
awarded for the construction of a "vowel organ," has been prosecut- 
mg his researches for the last 3'ear in Berlin. He reports numerous 
interesting experiments in the construction of resonators of various 
materials with which he has succeeded in producing the different vowel 

« Resolved, That the Secretary continue his researches in physical science, and pre- 
sent such facts and priiicii)les as may be developed for publication in the Smithsonian 
contributions. (Adopted at meeting of the Board of Regents January 26, 1847.) 



14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

sounds. Doctor Scripture says the pr()])lem now before him is to 
replace the material used in the artificial j>lottis he has constructed, by 
a substance which can be more perfectly adapted to his purpose in some 
essentials than any he has hitherto availed himself of. \Yhen this 
object is attained, he expects to be able to construct an organ which 
can sing- the vowels, or a vowel register which, attached to a pipe 
organ, may be effectively used in church music. 

The memoir of Dr. Victor Schumann, of Leipzig, on the "Absorp- 
tion and Emission of the Gases of Atmospheric Air in the Ultra- Violet 
Spectrum/' mentioned in my last report as in course of publication, 
has now 1)een issued in Volume XXIX of the Smithsonian Contribu- 
tions to Knowledge, The special apparatus, devised and constructed 
by the author, is shown by plates in the memoir, and the method of 
using it described. Although Doctor Schumann considers this investi- 
gation but preliminary to further research in this region of the spec- 
trum, specialists recognize that a notable step in advance has been 
made by the persevering and able work described in this memoir. 

Photographs of the apparatus used ))y Prof. William Hallock in his 
Hodgkins research on the comi)osition of vowel sounds, together with 
the curves drawn by the synthetic analyzer, have been submitted with 
a detailed description of the same. Although unexpected difficulties 
have been encountered in transferring the records to the magnetic 
wire, the investigation is reported as i)rogrcssing, on the whole, satis- 
factorily, and sound records, secured l)y means of the complicated and 
ingenious apparatus made use of, are to be submitted. 

A memoir summarizing the research of Dr. M. ^X. Travers, "On 
the Attainment of Very Low Temperatures," has now been issued as 
No. 144:1 of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. The investi- 
gations of Doctor Travers, who has recently been appointed to the 
chair of chemistry in University College, Bristol, P^ngland, which have 
been temporarily suspended while awaiting the reconstruction of some 
parts of the apparatus essential to the investigation, are soon to be 
resumed, when further progress will be reported to the Institution. 

Dr. K. von Lendenfeld, of the University of Prague, who was aided 
in 1 !><)<) l)y a grant from the Hodgkins fund for a study of the motion 
of birds in actual free flight, has recently submitted a paper on the 
structure of biid's wing feathers, written by Dr. E. Mascha, with 
the aid and u?ider the supei-vision of Doctor von Lendenfeld. This 
paper, which treats of the morphology and physiology of flight feath- 
ers (/v'////V/'-^), studied microsco])ically, is of interest in connection with 
the Hodgkins research of Doctor von Lendenfeld, which I have men- 
tioned in former reports. 

The subscription of the Listitution to the Journal of Terrestrial 
Magnetism and Atmosphei'ic Electricity has been again continued, the 
copies thus secured being distributed, as l>efore, to domestic and for- 



REPORT OF THK SECRETARY. 1 5 

oion lihnirios and ostablisliiiuMits csju'cially intcrcstcMl in (li<^ subjects 
treated of by the journal. 

A grant has been approved on behalf of Dr. A.F. Zahin. i)i-ofessor 
of pliysical science in the Catliolic University of America, in Wash- 
ington City, for a series of experiments on the hiws of atmos]:)heric 
resistance to moving bodies. This research, which is still in i)ro.or<>ss, 
will be reported on later. 

The experiments of Mr. Alexander Larsen, of Chicago, on lightning 
flashes and fluorescence, carried on by means of simi)le mechanism 
adapted and arranged by himself, have been aided by a moderate grant 
from the llodgkins fund. These experiments, which are now in prog- 
ress, are expected to yield results of scientific value. 

In view of the numerous iiupiiries received from investigators and 
specialists, it may be again stated that the llodgkins prize competition 
of the Institution was definitely closed December 31, 181>4, and that no 
further ci+mpetition on any su})ject is at present proposed by the Insti- 
tution. A recent circular stating the conditions which, in accordance 
with the will of the donor, govern the administration of the Hodgkins 
fund, including also a mention of the Hodgkins medal, which may be 
awarded for important contributions to our knowledge of the nature 
and properties of atmospheric air, and stating the conditions govern- 
ing the award of grants which are occasionally approved, is sent to 
those requesting it. A brief history of the Hodgkins foundation, not- 
ing the medals and prizes awarded, and mentioning the investigations 
which have been furthered by the fund, has been pul)lished in the 
Quarterly Issue of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. 

napi:e.s table. 

The question of the renew^al of the lease of a table in the Naples 
Zoological Station, which was held under advisement for some months, 
was finally decided in the affirmative, and the contract renewed on 
])ehalf of the Institution for three years from January 1, lyo-I. 

Since this action, applications for the seat have been received, and 
that of Prof. J. B. Johnston, head of the Department of Zoology in 
the University of West Virginia, which had been submitted a second 
time, in compliance with the rule of action observed in the interest of 
all candidates, was approved for six months from Septeni})er 1, 1904. 
Doctor Johnston is the author of several important papers on the com- 
parative anatomy of the brain and cranial nerves of the lower verte- 
brates, and his session will afl'ord undoubted advantages for his study 
of the problems of vertebrate moi'phology and the evolution of the 
nervous system. 

The additions to the buildings at the Naples Station now in progress 
will add much to the space available for research, and this, together 
with the larger number of tables now supported by scientific institu- 



16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

tions in the rnited States, will tend to c)l)viate the not infrequent 
application by .several students at the siinie time for the Smithsonian 
seat, a matter of reg^ret, as in such a cas(^ some applicants must be dis- 
:ipi)ointed, since an excess of workers at the same table is a source of 
inconvenience to Doctor Dolirn, the courteous director of the Station. 
It is, however, desired in the interest of science that the Smithsonian 
table should ])e continuously occupied durino- the months availa])le for 
study at Naples, and all ai)plications for the seat receive immediate 
consideration. A brief account of the administration of the Smithso- 
nian tal)le in the Naples Station, embodying the data which is likely to 
be of use to applicants, has recently l)een published in the Quarterly 
Issue of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. 

It is a pleasure to state that the advisory connuittee remains 
unchanged, and to express thanks for the helpful attention given to 
all questions referred to the committee for consideration. 

EXPLORATIONS. 

The Institution has this year made explorations through its private 
funds, such as the Alaskan mammoth expedition, and that to the 
Canadian glaciers, mentioned below, in addition to the customary 
biological, geological, and ethnological ones through the National 
Museum and the Bureau of American Ethnology. 

Alaskan manimoth expedition.— About the middle of May the Insti- 
tution dispatched an expedition to Alaska under the direction of ^Ir. 
A. G. Maddren. The most important work sought to be accomplished 
is the collecting of remains of the mammoth and other large mammals, 
which have been reported as abundant in various regions, one place 
being known as the " Bone Yard," another as Elephant Point, along 
the south shore of Kotzebue Sound. 

Exploration of Canadian glaciers.— An exploration of some of the 
glaciers of British Columbia has been undertaken by Dr. W. H. 
Sherzer, of Michigan, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion, for the purpose of gathering detinite information regarding 
glacial phenomena, such as the nature and cause of the ice flow, the 
temperature of the ice at various depths, iind its relation to air tem- 
peratures, the amount of surface melting, and the possible transfer- 
ence of material from the surface to lower portions. The special 
field of study will be the five most accessible glaciers along the line of 
the Canadian Pacific Railway, including the Victoria glacier at Lake 
Louise, the Wapta glacier in the Joho Valley, and the Asulkan, and 
lUecillewalt glaciers near Glacier House. 

rUBLICATIONS. 

The Institution distributed during the year a total of 45,705 vol- 
umes or parts of volumes of the series of Sndthsonian Contributions, 



KKl'OUT OF THE SKCKKTARY. 17 

Miscollan(M)us CoUoctioiis, Ki^ports and publications not iii('Iu(l(Ml in 
the ro^-uhir seiios." 

In the publications of the Institution (lie double aim of its founder is 
represented, in that it should exist botli for the '" increase" and the 
"ditt'usion" of kno\vl(Hlt>e. 

The reeordinjj- of results of orig-inal researclu»s, the "■ increase" of 
knowledo-o, is chiefly through the Contribution to Knowledge, atjuarto 
s(>ries bet^'un in 184S, und in which 145 memoirs, collected in 83 vol- 
umes, have so far been published. 

Three memoirs have been add(>d to this sei-ies, one on the moon, one 
on retlectin<^ telescopes, and one on whalebone whales. 

The moon memoir, by Prof. N. S. Shaler, entitled "A Comparison 
of the Features of the Earth and Moon," is a work of 79 pages of text, 
with ;^5 full page illustrations, each of them accompanied by a descrip- 
tion of the principal objects shown. 

As stated in my last report, T have for more than twelve years past 
been preparing the material for the publication of a work, on the part 
of the Smithsonian Institution, which it was hoped would consist essen- 
tially of photographic views of the moon, so complete and, it was 
expected (with the advance of photography), so minute, that the fea- 
tures of our satellite might be studied in them by the geologists and 
the selenographer, nearly as well as ])y the astronomer at the telescope. 
This hope has only been partially fulfilled, for photography, which 
has made such eminent advances in the reproduction of nebuhe and 
like celestial features, has indeed progressed in lunar work, but not to 
the same extent as in other fields. The expectation that such a com- 
l)lete work could be advantageously published for this purpose has, 
then, been laid aside for th(> present. 

It was decided to draw from the material prepared for this larger 
w^ork, some photographs taken at the Lick Observatory and the 
Paris Observatory, and i)articularly some recently obtained by Pro- 
fessor Kitchey at the Yerkes Observatory, for which I have to express 
the thanks of the Institution. These illustrations are attached to the 
present paper l>v Professor Shaler, and may, then, l)e considered to be 
a separate contril)ution by the Institution to the study of selenography. 

Professor Shaler's memoir gives the results of personal studies car- 
ried on for a third of a century. He has devoted about one hundred 
nights to telescopic study of the moon with the Mertz equatorial of 
I^ar^-ard College Observatory, his later researches having been chiefly 
by means of photographs at Harvard rniv(M-sity. with which he has so 
long been connected. 

A memoir of 106 pages, with 13 full-page illustrations and many 
text figures, consists of a reprint of a work by Professor Draper on 

« Contributions to Knowledge, 3,148; MiscellaneouH Collections, 7,819; Reports, 
31,202; publications not in regular series, 3,536. 
8M 1904 2 



18 KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the construction of a silvered glass telescope, accompanied bv a paper 
by Prof. (i. W. Kitchey on the modern reflecting telescope and the 
making- and testing- of optical mirrors. 

For few papers published by the institution has there been a more 
constant demand than for this memoir by Prof. Henry Draper, entitled 
'•'On the Construction of a Silvered Glass Telescope," originally issued 
forty years ago, in 1864. The paper is of remarkable merit as a sum- 
mary of, and an addition to, the knowledge existing at the time, but 
during the long interval which has elapsed, progress has been made 
in various directions and by various hands. On the occasion of a new 
edition of this classic memoir, it was sought to give an account of the 
latest knowledge on the subject, and I was gratified to be able to obtain 
from Mr. Ritchey, whose labors in this direction are so well known, 
an account of the processes which he has employed for making the 
great mirrors that have been so effective at the Yerkes Observatory, 
and it has been decided to republish, with the original Draper memoir, 
but as an entirely independent contribution to the subject, the present 
article by Mr. Ritchey. The great refracting instruments which have 
been produced in recent years have not superseded the use of the 
reflector, which, on the contrary, is occupying a more and more impor- 
tant place. The reader is here presented with the most recent methods 
and results needed in the construction of great mirrors for modern 
reflecting telescopes. 

The work on whales is by Dr. Frederick W. True, head curator of 
Biology in the National Museum, and treats in an exhaustive manner 
of the whalebone whales of the western North Atlantic compared with 
those occurring in European w^aters, with some observations on the 
species of the North Paciflc. It makes a volume of 337 pages, with 
50 full-page illustrations and 97 text flgures. 

Doctor True has here brought together ext^^nsive original data rela- 
tive to the external and osteological characters of the large whales of 
the western North Atlantic, for the purpose of determining whether the 
species are the same on both sides of that ocean. The facts have l)een 
derived from a study of fresh specimens art the Newfoundland whaling- 
stations, the collection of the United States National Museum, and the 
skeletons in other large museums of the United States. Special study 
was given to the type specimens of American species proposed ])y 
Prof. E. D. Cope and Capt. C. M. Scammon, all of which, Avith one 
exception, were examined l)y the author. 

The investigation is preparatory to a study of the geographical dis- 
tribution and migrations of the larger cetaceans in the North Atlantic, 
which could not be undertaken until the identity of the species them- 
selves was detei-mined. Numerous facts, however, relating to the 
occurrence of whales at different points off* the coasts of North 
America and the seasons of their appearance and disappearance, have 



KKl'OHT OF THK SKCKKTAKY. 1 '.) 

l>oen assembled. The I'osuUs of the investigation show that several 
American species which haxc be(Mi proposed are (luite certainly nomi- 
nal, and that, as a whole, the species of the Atlantic coast of North 
America can not l)e distino-uished from those of Kuropean waters. 
Some attention has been paid to the whales of the Noi-th Pacific. The 
information previously recorded has been brouoht together in orderly 
sequence and various new facts added, but the amount of material at 
present availabh^ is insufficient to serve as a basis for discrimination 
of closely allied species. It is certain, however, that the whales of 
the North Pacific, with one exception, l)ear an extremely close resem- 
l)lance to those of the North Atlantic. The C/alifornia Gray whale, 
Rhtichlanectes (/laifcus, has no counterpart in the Atlantic. One well 
known European species, the Pollack whale, Balmnopiera horealis, not 
previously known in North American waters, was observed at the New- 
foundland whaling stations while this volume was passing through the 
press. The illustrations include views of the type specmiens of the 
species proposed by Cope and Scammon; also niunerous representa- 
tions of the different individuals of the Connnon Finback and the 
Sulphurbottom, from photographs taken by the author at the New- 
foundland whaling stations. The latter are of special value for the 
study of individual variation in these huge animals. 

The series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections is intended to 
mclude all the publications issued directly by the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion in octavo form, excepting the Annual Report, which is a Con- 
gressional document. In the Collections are included reports on the 
present state of our knowledge of particular branches of science; 
instructions for collecting and digesting facts and materials for 
research; lists and synopses of species of the organic and inorganic 
world; Museum catalogues; reports of explorations; aids to biblio- 
graphical investigations, etc., generally prepared at the express request 
of the Institution and at its expense. 

A NEW QUARTERLY ISSUE. 

Since 18H2, when the series of Miscellaneous Collections was begun, 
ther(^ have })een published 4:0 volumes, made up of sev(M-al hundred 
individual papers. 

In order to ati'ord a medium for the early publication of the results 
of researches conducted by the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus, 
and especially for the publication of reports of a preliminary nature, 
I have decided during the past year to establish a quarterly issue of 
the Miscellaneous C/ollections, which shall not supersede the regular 
series, but be a part of it. Each number of the quarterly is planned 
to consist of about 144 pages of text and to be suitabh' illustrated. 
The first volume has been completed, and makes a book of 463 pages, 



20 REPORT OF thp: secretary. 

including- ^8 papers, with 103 plates and 45 text tigures, as enumerated 
by the editor in the appendix to this report. 

To the regular series of Miscellaneous Collections the following 
papers have been added: 

The Literature of Thorium, by Dr. Cavalier H. Joiiet; Ph^logeu}' of 
Fusus and its Allies, by Prof. A. W. (ri-abau; Researches on the 
Attainment of Very Low Temperatures, ))y Prof. Morris W. Travers, 
and a Select Bibliography of Chemistry (Second Supplement), b}^ Dr. 
H. C. Bolton.^' 

There was in press at the close of the year a Catalogue of Diptera, 
by Prof. J. M. Aldrich, and Researches in Helminthology and Parasit- 
ology, by Dr. Joseph Leidy. 

The Smithsonian Report is printed as a Congressional document and 
is its only publication of which the edition is large enough to permit 
even a limited distribution to individuals. In the general appendix to 
the report it has been my esi)ecial aim to include, as heretofore, papers 
of scientitic importance, treated in a wa>" to l)e understood by the lay 
student. The Report for 1903 has been put in type, but had not been 
delivered by the pi'inter at the close of the Hscal year. The volume 
contains the Secretary's report to the Regents for the year ending 
June 30, 1903, the proceedings of the Regents' meeting of January 28, 
1903, and the repoj't of the Executive Committee dated elanuary 25, 
190-1, besides the general appendix of about 50 papers on scientitic 
subjects relating chiefly to the calendar 3'ear 1903. 

Among the many manuscripts left unfinished by the late Dr. G. 
Brown (ioode, there is a group of chapters dealing with the progress 
of science in America. In accordance with the author's liberal inter- 
pretation of the meaning of science, the work does not confine itself 
to the physical and natural sciences, but contains notes on anthropology, 
philology, l)i])liography, and kindred subjects. As Doctor Goode was 
eminently the historian of American science, it seems especially fitting 
that the Smithsonian Institution should undertake the publication of 
these memoirs, even if incomplete. The maiuiscript is now being 
worked over and I hope that in the near future these notes will in 
book form serve as a foundation for and a stimulus to further work in 
the same direction. 

LIBRARY. 

The accessions to the Smithsonian dejwsit in the Library of Con 
gress during the year aggregated '2,286 volumes, 21,467 parts of vol- 
umes and pamphlets, and 215 charts, making a total of 23,968 cata- 
logue entries, equivalent to nearly 15,000 octavo volumes. Additions 

'''Dr. Henry Carrington Bolton died on November 19, li)03, before the publication 
of this work. 



REPORT OK THE SECRETARY. 21 

ao-o-ivoating 7,893 entrios have been iiuuli' (o the libraries of the Secre- 
tary. Otlice, Astr()])hysi('!il ObserNutory, the National Z()oU)oical 
Park, and the National IVIuseuni. In the Museum library there arc 
now 20,548 bound Nolunies and 35,950 unbound papers. 

General de iVystcr continues to add many valuable volumes to the 
Watts de Peyster Collection Napoleon Huonai)arte, jind there have also 
been received from him several oil painlinos, and many historical 
relics of the American colonial period. 

Intcrnatlorial ('((talogue of Scitntlfc L'tieratwre. — The Institution 
has continued the work of indexing scientific pu])lications, the total 
numl)er of references sent to the central bureau at London during the 
vear aggregating 21,213, or an increase of 50 per cent over the pre- 
vious 3'ear, which was made possible by an addition to the allotmiMit 
from the Smithsonian fund for this work. The first amiual issue of 
the catalogue has now been published and distributed, and also several 
volumes of the second annual issue, 

CORRESPONDENCE, 

As in former years, a great many in(|uiries on almost every known 
subject have been received by the Institution, and although many of 
these did not relate directly to its operations, it has, in accordance witli 
the purpose of its foundation — ''the increase and diffusion of knowl- 
edge" — cheerfully furnished the information, as far as practicable, in 
each case, notwithstanding the fact that this fi-equently recjuired the 
expenditure of considerable time ))y the members of its staff. 

All correspondence in any way affecting the policy of the Institution 
or its bureaus has, as heretofore, received the Secretary's personal 
attention, while letters relating to the work of the National Museum, 
the Bureau of American Ethnology, and the National Zoological Park, 
not included in the above class, have been acted on directly by the 
Assistant Secretary in charge of the Museum, the Chief of the Bureau, 
and the Superintendent of tlie park. 

During the year many plans and descriptions of devices of various 
kinds have been su])mitted to the Institution for an expression of opin- 
ion as to their merits. These requests the Secretary has been compelled 
to decline by reason of the decision of the Board of Regents, made 
during the early years of the Institution, which prohibits him from 
expressing an opinion upon the merits of '^a\^ patental)le invention. 

No important changes have been made in the system of conducting 
correspondence, which was inaugurated in 1890, and which has con- 
tinued to b(> found an effective means of preventing any lumecessary 
delay in its dispatch. 



22 REPOBT OF the; SECRETARY. 

INTERNATIONAL AMERICAN ARCH^OLOCJICAL COMMISSION. 

At the Second International Conference of the American Republics, 
held in the City of Mexico on January 29, 1902, a resolution was 
adopted recommending that an — 

" International American Archaeological Commission be formed through 
the appointment by the President of each of the American Republics 
of one or more menil)ers of such conuuission; * * * that the first 
meeting for the organization of the conuuission, the election of officers, 
and adoption of rules shall occur in the city of \\'ashington " * * 
within two years from this date; that the commission shall have power 
to appoint subcommissions, which shall be charged specially with the 
explorations or other work connuitted to its care; that subcommissions 
may l)e appointed which sliall cause the cleaning and preservation of 
the ruins of the principal prehistoric cities, establishing at each of them 
a nuiseum to contain objects of interest found in the locality, and, at 
such exhumed cities, to establish conveniences for the visiting public; 
that the commission endeavor to estaV)lish an American International 
Museum which is to l)ecome the center of all the investigations and inter- 
pretations, and that it be esta))lished in the city selected bv the majority 
of the Republics acquiescing in this recommendation." * * * 

The attention of the Smithsonian Institution was called to this pro- 
posed commission through a letter from the secretary of the confer- 
ence, dated May 26, 1902, asking for suggestions as to the best 
methods to be pursued to bring about the earl}'^ estaldishment of the 
commission and its effective organization. 

A preliminary meeting of representatives appointed )>y some of the 
Republics to consider the proposed conuuission was held at the 
Department of State on April 15, 1908, and adjourned to the third 
Monday of December. 

On May 1.5, 1903, the Secretary of State submitted to me for con- 
sideration, and an expression of views thereon, a proposed plan of 
organization of the commission. 

On December 21, 1903, a meeting of the diplomatic representatives 
of the American Republics was held at the Department of State in the 
interest of the organization of the International Archieological Com- 
mission, when representatives of the Smithsonian Institution were 
invited to statt' to those present the position of the Institution in 
regard to the Avork of the proposed commission, and to submit such 
views in writing, to be printed in the proceedings of the meeting, for 
the information of the several Republics, and adjourmuent was had 
until the third Monday in December, 1904. 

On F(>bruary 16, 1904, in response to a request from the Secretary 
of State, the following letter was submitted: 

Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, U. *S'. A., February 16, 1904. 

Sin: In reply to the comniunication of the Department of the 8th instant, request- 
ing the i>resentation of "the formal views ami constructive criticisms of the Smith- 



REPORT OK TIIK SKCKKTAKY. 28 

ponian Institution on tlic project of tlie International Archa'ological Commission 
submitted to tiie (li]il()iii:itic representatives of the American Kepublies," I liave tiie 
honor to say that n<> copy of tlie proceedings of that meeting has been laid before 
me. I understand that a project was submitted at a previous meeting, and that 
practically no action was taken at the last meeting alluded to. I have, in accordance 
with the request of the Department, caused the accompanying memoranchun to be 
prepared. I beg at the same time to refer you to my previous letter to the Depart- 
lu'ut, of December 12. 

I am, etc., 

R. P. L.\NGLEY, Secretary. 
Hon. .loM.v Hav, 

Seer eta nj of State, 1 1 a.s7/ ingfon. 

[IiK'losurt'.] 

MKMOHANDrM ('ONCERNIX(i THE PROPOSED COOPERATION AMONO THE AMERICAN REPUB- 
LICS FOR THE PROMOTION OE ARCH.E,OI.()(i ICAL AND ETH NoI.OCiICA L RESEARCH. 

The Smithsonian Institution strongly favors international cooperation in the 
furthering of scientific work. It initiated and is at present engaged in the interna- 
tional exchange of scientific publications, having agencies throughout the world, 
])esides acting on behalf of the United States Government for the exchange of pul)lic 
documents. It is also acting as the representative of the United States in the 
compilation of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. 

There is especial force in such cooperation among the American Republics for the 
promotion of archaeological and ethnological research, and, for that matter, among 
all the countries upon the American continent and the adjacent islands, since the 
problems, so far as they relate to the aboriginal poimlations, are not defined by 
present political boundaries. British, Dutch, French, or other foreign possessions 
on the American continent or in the West Indies could with advantage be included 
in the project. 

This cooperation can be best furtliered in the first instance by the stimulation of 
tlie organizations already in existence for these studies in the various countries. The 
work is in almost all of the American countries carried on at present by the national 
museums. In the United States it is carried on by the National Museum and the 
Bureau of American Ethnology. Wherever such exist it is desirable that they should 
have the opportunity of an exchange of views and the comparison of work to be 
undertaken in order that the great problem, which can only be solved by coordina- 
tion of research, shall be taken up with the greatest efficiency and economy. An 
organization of the heads of museums and scientific government bureaus having to 
do with archaeology or ethnology could be effected through the Bureau of American 
Republics, an existing organization. 

To further stinmlate archaeological work each American Republic or other State 
willing to adhere to the scheme might undertake to secure the passage of laws 
declaring archaeological and historical objects of unusual interest reserved, and that 
excavations thereon should be undertaken only by properly organized museums and 
all waste of archaeological objects should be prevented. 

The director of the national museum in each country, the head of a bureau or 
department devoted to the study of arclueology and ethnology, or, where there are 
none such, some other official duly appointed, should, in executing the law for the 
protection of antiquities, have a recording othcer who shoidd secure a list of all 
(jV)jects taken from the ground. 

The passage of laws prohibiting the manufacture of spurious antiquities is also 
desirable. Such laws, being national laws, would necessarily be executed by 
national authorities, and each republic or other country or province would be 
autonomous in this respect. 



24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

An arch.'oolojrical survey of America, undertaken by tlie various States systematic- 
ally, and upon a well-defined plan, would render an inijiortant service to the progress 
of archa'ological science, and is a preliminary to systematic research. 

Whenever a museum or scientific establishment exists now undertaking archa'o- 
logical and ethnological work this should remain the representation of the specific 
country for such work. The interchange of duplicates among American museums, 
which is already being carried on to a considerable extent, should V)e continued an<l 
increased, in order that each American national museum should finally have as good a 
series as is obtainable of all American archa'logical objects of interest. Care should be 
taken, however, not to let this idea interfere in,the proper exchange of specimens 
between museums on this continent and elsewhere, since most museums, while sup- 
ported by nations, are really international in character, and it is to the interest of 
American nniseums that they shall exchange American material for foreign material, 
as it is to the interest of foreign museums that they sliall have material representing 
American archa>ology. It is only by securing archaological and ethnological series 
from all countries that comparative studies can be successfully entered upon. 

While uniformity is not sought, the American museums should exchange with each 
other plans of cases, information with regard to methods of installation and kinds of 
labels, and regulations concerning the preservation of type specimens, and the lend- 
ing of s])ecimens from one museum to the other for study or other purposes, in order 
that each national museum may have idl methods before it to assist in adopting such 
as are be.st suited to its own peculiar needs. 

The existence of a unique object, manuscript, or codex, without its reproduction 
by cast, photograjjh, or other mechanical means, renders it possible in the event of 
tire or other disaster that all the knowledge represented by these objects will be lost 
to the world. The copying by mechanical means of such specimens and their 
exchange among the various countries is suggested as one of the most important 
pieces of work that could be undertaken by international cooperation. 

The jirojects originally presented to the conference of the American Rejjublics at 
the City of Mexico, in so far as these are practicable, can best be carried out in the 
following manner: That the directors of the national museums of the American 
Republics and States, or, in case where there be none, then other representatives of 
these countries, be constituted as a body, with wholly advisory functions, to meet 
once every three years, or oftener should occasion arise, to consider archaological 
and ethnological interests. The meetings and deliberations of this body should be 
conducted under the auspices of the Bureau of American Republics, which might 
publish such reports as might be approved by a proper committee of the meeting. 
The organization here suggested to carry out the purposes of the project could be 
effected with sHght expense to the States adhering to the plan. 

INTERNATIONAL C0N(;RKSSES AND EXPOSITIONS. 

The Institution was called upon during the year to designate dele- 
gates to an unusual number of international scientific congresses, and 
several more were under consideration at the close of the fiscal year. 

Congress of Ainericanids. — Mr. William H. Holmes, Chief of the 
Bui'eau of American Ethnology, was ap])ointed delegate of the Insti- 
tution to the Fourteenth Inteinational Congress of Americanists to })e 
held at Stuttgail, August 18-23, 1904, and upon nomination by the 
Institution the following persons were accredited by the Department 
of State as United States delegates to the same congress: Dr. Franz 



RKl'ORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25 

Boas, of the Amcric-iui Museum of Niitural History; Mr. Marshall II. 
Savillo, of the CoUuiibia I'liiversity; Di-. (Jcoroc II. Dorscy, of (he 
Field C'olumhian Museum, and Doctoi- Cuiiicr, of the Catholic 
University of America. 

CotKjrcKK of Zoology. — Messrs. Leonhard Stejneocr and (Jerrit S. 
Miller, jr., of the United States National Museun), were appointed 
representatives of the Institution and the Museum at the Sixth Inter- 
national Congress on Zoology, to be held at Berne, Switzerland, 
August 14-19. 

Congress of EdnattloD.—Dv. C^rus Adler was api)ointed delegate 
of the Smithsonian Institution to the International Congress of Edu- 
cation, held in St. Louis June 28 to July 1, li)()4, but finding it impos- 
sible to attend he was represented by Dr. Marcus W. Lyon, jr., of the 
National Museum. 

Congress of Orientalists.— Vroi. Baul Haupt, honorary curator of 
the Division of Historic Archeology in the United States National 
Museum, was appointed representative of the Smithsonian Institution 
and the National Museum at the Fourteenth International Congress of 
Orientalists, to be held at Algiers in April, 11»0.5. 

Congress of Geology.— Mv. Charles Schuchert, of the National 
Museum, was appointed delegate of the Institution to the Ninth Inter- 
national (Geological Congress held at Vienna, August 20-29 1903. He 
reports that there were 355 meniljers in attendance, including 22 from 
the United States. The standard of the papers presented was high. 
One day was occupied l)y 7 speakers from \arious parts of the world 
in presenting a synopsis of present knowledge of crystalline rocks. 
Another day was devoted to "Faults and Clefts," and a third day was 
given to a presentation of the geology of the Balkan Peninsula and 
the Orient. 

Archceologlml Congress.— ^x. Franz Boas was appointed United 
States delegate to the Congress of the Archaeological and Historical 
Federation of Belgium, to be held at Mons in July and August, IlMll. 

Louisiana Pxrchase Exposition.— liy an act of Congress approved 
March 3, 1901, liberal provision was made for an exhibit at the 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition by the Executive Departments, the 
Smithsonian Institution, the National Museum, the Fish Conunission, 
and the Department of Labor, "of such articles and objects as illus- 
trate the functions and administrative faculty of the (iovernment in 
time of peace and its resources as a war power, tending to demonstrate 
the nature of our institutions and their adaptation to the wants of the 
people.'' The preparation of this exhibit was j)laced in charge of a 
Government board upon which Dr. Fred(>rick W. True, head curator 
of the department of biology in the National Museum, was appointed 
as representative of the Smithsonian Institution. The exposition was 



26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

postponed from 1903 to 1904, and opportunity was thus offered for the 
preparation of an adequate display that iiiioht illustrate the functions 
of the Institution and its dependencies. 

The Smithsonian exhi})it proper is installed in the Government build- 
ino- in a pavilion which overlooks the space assigned to its various 
bureaus. It contains memorials and a portrait of the founder, James 
Smithson. and a complete series of the several hundred publications of 
the Institution, which represents one of the chief means adopted for 
carrying out his })urpose "The increase and diffusion of knowledge." 
Portraits of the chancellors and secretaries of the Institution are also 
shown, as Avell as that of Mr. Thomas George Hodgkins, the donor of 
the Hodgkins fund. Printed matter, setting forth the objects to which 
this fund is devoted and the reports of important original researches 
which it has aided b}' means of grants, are also exhibited, with repro- 
ductions of the Hodgkins gold medal, which is awarded bienniall}- for 
noteworthy investigations regarding the nature of atmospheric air in 
connection with the welfare of man. One of the features of the 
exhibit is a (piarter-size model of the large aerodrome with which 
experiments were conducted during the summer and autumn of 1903, 
a model, driven by a gasoline engine, which itself has flown a distance 
of nearly a quarter of a mile. The steam-driven model with which 
experiments were successfully made in 1896 is also exhibited. 

The work of the Astrophysical Observatory is illustrated in a 
graphic manner l)v the installation of the great coelostat, arranged to 
throw a beam of sunlight into a darkened room where there is shown 
a solar image about a yard in diameter, thrown up ))V a G-inch tele- 
scope, and the solar spectrum is formed upon the walls by a large 
concave grating. Bolometric apparatus is in actual operation, while 
a display of transparencies illustrates the apparatus and results of 
researches by the Observatory. 

Charts and other objects are displayed explanatory of the useful 
work carried on by the International Exchanges in distributing scien- 
tific publications throughout the world. 

The various departments of the National Museum are full}' repre- 
sented. Among some of the objects displayed I may mention a resto- 
ration of the extinct reptile known as the Stegasaur, about 25 feet 
long, which is not unlike a large horned toad, with a double row of 
large, flat spines along the tail; a collection of meteorites and casts of 
some of the largest meteorites known, one of them exceeding 20 feet 
in length and weighing many tons; a collection of some of the most 
})eautiful kinds of minerals from all parts of the world; the model of a 
whale 80 feet long as showing the apjjearance of the greatest of all 
living animals; groups of game birds, the wonderfid bii-ds of paradise, 
the gorgeous pheasants, and birds of pre}'; and a remarkably perfect 



KKl'OKT OF THK SKCKKTARV. 2i 

(>irg of the oioaiitic hinl of Madag-asciir, the Acpyoniis, the ('o<r inciis- 
iiriui^' iihoiit a foot lon^-. 

The Childrcir.s Room in the Institution is icpixxhicfd in full si/e, 
together with its eases, a(|uaria. hinl eao-es, decorations, and as many 
of the objects as eould be duplicated. 'J'lieie is thus shown a lillipu- 
tian museum which has proved very attractive to the older as well as 
younger visitors to the Kxposition. 

A gigantic bird cage, in which many species of birds have almost as 
much freedom of movement as if they were without restraint by l»ai-s 
and nets, illustrates the National Zoological Park. 

Tlie collections are mentioned with somewhat more d(^tiiil in (he 
Appendix, and in the report by Doctor True, to be published later in 
another volume, full d(>tails will l)e given of tliese exhil)its as well as 
descriptions of some great models of Ma3'an temples of Yucatan, 
shown l)y the Bureau of American Ethnology. 

Lewis and Clark Exposition. — Congress during the past year made 
provision for a Government exhibit at an exposition to be opened at 
Portland, Oreg., in May, 1905, to commemorate the centennial of the 
Lewis and Clark Expedition to the Northw^est, and Dr. F. W. True 
has been designated as representative of the Institution to prepare a 
suitable Smithsonian exhibit. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

University of Wisconsin. — Dr. dames B. Angell, president of the 
University of Michigan and Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, 
represented the Institution at the celebration of the liftieth anniver- 
sary of the first commencement of the University of Wisconsin, held 
at Madison during the week beginning June 5, 1904, and presented 
the congratulations, signed by the Secretary, in the following form: 

The Smithsonian Institution extends to the president, the regents, and the faculty 
of the University of Wisconsin its congratulations on the occasion of the fiftieth anni- 
versary of the first commencement of the university. It felicitates the university on 
the important work accomplished by it for learning and education in the State of 
Wisconsin, and, recognizing its influence also in sister institutions of learning, sends 
ii earliest wishes for its continued i)rosperity and usefulness. 

NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

The most notable event of the year was that on June IT), li)04, 
ground was broken for the new Museum building which was author- 
ized by act of Congress approved March 3, 1903, the first sod ludng 
turned by me in the presence of the architects, the superintendent od" 
construction, and the ofhcers and em])Joyees of the Institution and 
its dependencies. The new structure will be ei'cctcd on the north- 
ern side of the Smithsonian Park and will be al)out 551 feet long 



28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

and 818 feet wide, giving- n floor area of a])oiit !»1 acres in its four 
stories. 

The year which sees this most important material accession has been 
one in which the Museum's most important possession, in the men of 
science who have devoted themselves to its work with a disinterested 
zeal, has suffered a loss in the resignation of a number of its staff, 
from the lack of appreciation by Congress which would permit it to retain 
their services. The time in the Museum's history has come, anticipated 
in my previous reports, when the staff' so slowly gathered, and which 
is to occupy this new building, is beginning to decline. I feel com- 
pelled here at the outset to call attention to the inadequate salaries 
paid to the scientific and clerical staff" of the Museum, a circumstance 
that during the past year has caused the resignation of se^'eral of the 
curators, who have accepted similar positions offering greater com- 
pensation in other cities. An increase in the Museum appropriation 
has been asked of Congress, since under the present appropriation it 
is impossible to maintain a proper staff' of efficient scientific assistants 
or clerical help. 

Good progi'ess has been made in the regular operations of the 
Museum, although nuich time of the scientific staff' has lieen devoted 
to the preparation of exhibits for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. 

The new accessions aggregated 241,547 specimens, making the pres- 
ent total census of collections 5,891,000 objects. Important new 
accessions in tlie anthropological, biological, and geological depart- 
ments are enumerated by the Assistant Secretary in the appendix to 
this report. 

I may mention here the continued interest in the National Collec- 
tions manifested b}- Dr. AV. L. Abbott, who each year presents to the 
Museum many objects collected by him during his anthropological 
and natural history researches in the Far East, the specimens received 
during the last year consisting cliiefiy of ethnological objects from the 
Mala}' Peninsula and northern Sumatra. Ethnological specimens col- 
lected in the Philippine Islands by Drs. E. A. Mearns and R. B. (xrul))), of 
the United States Arm}', and objects of interest collected in Alaska by 
Lieut. G. T. Emmons, of the United States Navy, evidence the pres- 
ent interest of many Government officials in the work of the National 
Museum. The Bureau of Ordnance of the War Department has 
deposited 615 varieties of firearms of historical value. 

The National Museum ac(|uir(\s its collections mainly through Gov- 
ernment surveys, l)y gift and by exchange, l)ut, depending upon these 
means alone, its collections can never he made complete in any par- 
ticular. Provision should l)e made for filling at least the more 
important gaps by purchase. The ol)jects to be obtained in this man- 
ner are generally such as find their way into the hands of individuals 
who have been at greater or less expense in obtaining them, and who, 



REPORT OF THK SKCRETARY. 29 

therefore, can not he expected to part with them except hy sale. 
Ahout four years aoo a specitic item for purchase was agreed to h}- 
Conjiress, and while the sum allowed was altoj^ether inade(iuate to 
meet the requirements of the Museum, yet thr()u*;"h it many important 
objects were secured. In the appropriation hill for the past year this 
item was omitted by C^ong-ress, and many objects which should have 
come into the possession of the (iov(n'nment have l)een obtained l)y 
other museums. This is especially the case in connection with the 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition, where exceptional opportunities were 
presented for enriching the National Collections with needed nraterial. 

When the Museum building- was erected, the need of a working 
library actually at hand was felt, and through the generosity of Pro- 
fessor Haird, who presented his entire private collection of scientitic 
publications to the National Museum, the nucleus for such a library 
was established. In the years following, the Library of Congress 
l)ecame so overcrowded that it was glad to have retained at the Museum 
as much of the Smithsonian Library as was useful, and to send down 
for iudetinite deposit as man}" of the Smithsonian books as were 
required. This condition no longer obtains, however, and an enlarged 
working library for the Museum has become absolutel}^ essential, if 
the provisions of Congressional enactments for the classification and 
arrangement of its collections are to be carried into effect. The sums 
of money heretofore available have not sutiiced even for the purchase 
of all such books needed in the work as were not contained in the col- 
lection of the Library of Congress or in the Smithvonian deposit, and 
the increase requested is a low estimate for the actual re(|uirements of 
the Museum. 

The National Museum is open to the public only on week days, from 
9 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. , and its important educational features are restricted 
to persons having leisure only during otficial hours. It has long been 
ui-ged that means be granted for so extending the hours of opening 
that no one shall be deprived of the advantages which it offers for 
instruction and enlightenment. Such an arrangement has been in suc- 
cessful operation at the Library of Congress for several 3"ears, and a 
similar course has long been followed by the larger museums elsewhere 
in this country and in most European capitals. The National Museum 
has recently been provided with a complete installation of electric 
wires and lamps, and could, therefore, be opened both evenings and Sun- 
days at the mere cost of the necessary additional supplies and help. The 
Smithsonian building, however, has not yet been fui'nished with the 
means for lighting the public halls, but could be opened on Sundays. 
The expense involved is that needed for obtaining the extra amount of 
coal and of electric current required, and for the employment of a few 
additional persons to supplement the night and Sunday wat(;li force, 



3U Rpn'OKT OF THE SECRETARY. 

which is very .small. Three plans are suggested for the extension of 
the hours of opening. The tirst includes ever}' week-day evening and 
Sunday's; the second, three evenings during each week and ever}^ Sun- 
day: the third. Sundays only. The first plan most strongly commends 
itself. 

The progress of the worlc of classifying and arranging the collec- 
tions both for exhibition and for study has been greatly retarded, as 
during man}^ years past, by lack of space and by reason of the insufii- 
cient force provided. The difficulty in regard to space will cease with 
the completion of the new building authorized by Congress in 1903, 
but that completion is still years distant. I can not too stronglv urge 
that when the building is ready an adequate staff of scientific men can 
not be improvised, ])ut'that such an one must be largely gathered in 
the time which now offers for preparation if one is to be provided 
adequate to the demand. 

BUREAL; of AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY. 

The past year's work of the Bureau has continued mainly along the 
usual lines, and in a number of directions is making rapid progress 
toward final results. 

The research work among the aborigines has been carried forward 
in four widely distributed regions — among the Haida tribes of the 
Queen Charlotte Islands and southern Alaska; among the Pueblo 
Indians of New Mexico; among a number of tribes of the great plains 
in Oklahoma and Indian Territory, and in the West Indies where the 
interesting and obscure problems of the ancient remains and tribal 
remnants are receiving deserved attention. The studies in these sev- 
eral fields are now gradually approaching completion, and monographs 
embodying the results are in hand. 

In the field of linguistics much attention has l)een given to the col- 
lection of data from the tribes and the preparation of a handbook of 
the American languages, wliich is exjx^cted to mark a very decided 
advance in the knowledge of primitive tongues. 

An important feature of the year's work was the })reparation and 
installation of an exhibit intended to illustrate at the Louisiana 
Purchase P^xposition t-ertain phases of the Bureau's work, and special 
studies were pursued and collections made for this purpose. 

A measure for the preservation of our national antiquities was intro 
duced in tlie Senate by Senator Cullom, and a similar measure was 
offered in the House of Representatives by Mr. Hitt. Since other 
legislation along the same lines has ])een |)roposed to C^ongress and the 
subject is still under discussion, no final action having l)een taken, it 
is not desired to say more here than that th(^ Institution, through the 
Bureau of American Ethnology, is deeply interested in the proposed 



hp:i'()KT ok thk skcuktary. 81 

plan for prcsorviny- tlu' antiijuitiivs of our comidy and awaits the coiii- 
inands of Conyross in (lie matter. 

1 lia\t' {'ontiiiiKHl to take imicli iiiter(\st in the preparation of tlH> 
Dictionary of Indian Tribes, not oidy for its value as a scientilic 
memoir, hut especially for its li()p(><l-for utility in bringine- before 
Congress the past, })resent, and futuiv work of the Bureau. I stated 
in my last year's i-ei)()rt that the work contemplates the publication of 
two octavo volumes, embodyini'- in compact form information (gath- 
ered by the Bureau during- the past years regarding Ameiican races, 
the lii-st of which volumes, it was then believed, would be ready foi- 
tiie press at the close of the year. The distribution of this important 
work has been delayed beyond the time anticipated, owing to the desire 
of those engaged in it to have it represent the latest views of ethnolo- 
gists on the subjects ti'eated, as well as a history of the past work of 
the Bureau, and to the fact that the means at disposal have not per- 
mitted that provision of skilled assistants which would have enabled 
the work to be completed at the time at tirst coniidentl}' expected. It 
is now l)elieved that the first volume of the dictionary will ])e ready 
for the printer before the appearance of the present report, though it 
may yet be some time ])efore it is received from the press, ow'ing to 
tiie time actuall}" required for the printing of the volume. 

The printing of the annual reports and bulletins, including various 
scientific papers, is progressing favorably, and matt(M- for the Twenty- 
fourth Annual volume, that for 19()4, is practically ready for the press. 

It is believed that important results would l)e derived from a study 
of the languages, manners, and customs of the natives of Hawaii and 
Tutuila, and Congress has been asked to approve the extension of the 
activities of the Bureau to these islands. 



INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES. 

The International Exchange Service has for many years been the 
medium of exchanging the official ])u)>lications of the United States 
Govermnent with those of foreign countries and a like interchange of 
the publications of th(> Smithsonian Institution and of the principal 
scientilic societies of this country with those of scientific bodies 
throughout the world. A new exchange list of foreign institutions 
was published during the year numbering 12,720 addresses, an increase 
of 3,306 addresses of such institutions since the publication of the last 
list in 1897. The total number of foreign and domestic correspond- 
ents is now 48,072, an increase of 4,060 correspondents during the past 
year. Of this number 16,721 are classed as institutions and 31,351 as 
individuals, the United States patrons of the service including 3,464 
institutions and 6,450 individuals. The operations of the service dur- 
ing the last fiscal year shoW' a gain of 8,766 in the mmiber of packages 



32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

handled, the total for the year being 158,988, having un aggregate 
weight of 481,410 pounds. 

The chief clerk of the service, Mr. W. Irving Adams, visited 
Europe during the year and was successful in promoting a more gen- 
eral interest in the interchange of books with several countries, as 
well as inaugurating many improvements in the prompt transmission 
of packages. 

Dr. Carl Felix Alfred Fliigel, who had served as agent of the Insti- 
tution at Leipzig for forty-nine years, died on February 6, 1904, and 
was succeeded by Mr. Karl W. Hiersemann, of the same city. 

Some progress has been made toward the reestablishment of exchange 
relations with China, and in general the condition of the " Exchanges" 
is one to cause satisfaction to those who are laboring for its advance. 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK. 

Under the care of the Regents the National Zoological Park con- 
tinues to fulfill the objects of Congress in its foundation so etiectivcly 
that perhaps no department of the Government service gives such 
widespread benefit in health and pleasure to the iidiabitants of the 
District. As a consequence the number of visitors constantly con- 
tinues to increase, there having been considerably more than a million 
during the past year. 

The number of animals exhibited and maintained in the park has 
gradually augmented year by year, the net increase during the past 
season amounting to more than 10 per cent of the total on hand at the 
beginning of that period. This has necessarily occasioned a crowding, 
which is not conducive to the welfare of the animals. In order to 
relieve this in some degree, it was decided to build a new house which 
should serve as quarters for some of the more important ones and in 
which they would be under moi'e wholesome conditions of tempera- 
ture. This house will be a substantial stone structure, not unduly 
conspicuous, but harmonizing with the group in which it stands. At 
the present time oidy the walls of this building are completed. The 
cost of construction will be defrayed from the general appropriation 
for the park, which necessarily ])revents any considerable expenditure 
of funds for other objects than the maintenance and care of the collec- 
tion. A plan of the buildmg is given in the superintendent's report 
(Appendix IV). 

I have in previous reports during the past ten years urged the 
desira])ility— even the imperative necessity— of provision for the pres- 
ervation of oui- vanishing races of animals, if they were to be saved 
from extinction. Repeated experience has demonstrated the fact that 
some of tiie largest of our nativ(^ hei'bivorous animals will not thrive 
when closely contined. Even the American l)ison, it appears, can not 



REPORT OK THK SECRETARY. 33 

lon^' 1)0 siu'ccssfully l)red cxcoi)t where given extended ranofo. Herds 
kept on restricted ureas ma}' do well for a time, but eventually their 
vitality becomes impaired, the birth rate diminishes, and it is only by 
the addition of new animals l)re(l in comparative freedom that the con 
tinned propagation of the species under such conditions can be secured. 
The recommendations made to Congress in previous years for the 
establisbment of preserves and otiicr measures to insure the continued 
existence of some of these notable animals have not secured favorable 
action. I fear that already this matter is passing beyond control, for 
no })ower can recall a vanished race. 

The varied topograph}^ of the park, presenting as it does a succes- 
sion of valle^^s and hillsides of unusual beaut}^, makes it eminentl}^ 
adapted to such treatment as would prote<;t indigenous flowers and 
trees and maintain them in the best conditions attainable. What is 
known to landscape gardeners as a " wild garden" — that is to say, a plan- 
tation of indigenous plants allowed to grow with freedom, yet arranged 
so as to produce unobtrusive artistic eflects — can be applied to many 
portions of the park with excellent results. Something of this kind 
will probably be attempted on a small scale should the appropriation 
permit. All such attempts, however, should and will be made subor- 
dinate to the prime object of the park, namel}^, that of maintaining a 
zoological collection. 

The policy of encouraging wild animals and birds to make the park 
their home has been increasingly followed, and were it practicable to 
employ sufficient force to thoroughly police the park and its entrances, 
herds of Virgina deer and perhaps of the American antelope might be 
allowed to run free within it. The principal difficulty experienced in 
caring for animals and birds thus running wild lies in their tendency 
to stra}' away and get into the more extensive woods in the Rock 
Creek Park or its neighborhood, where the,y are often killed. It 
would be an advantage if the killing of game animals could be abso- 
lutely prohibited in the District of Columbia, for if such prohiljition 
were made it would be possible within a few years to have a consider- 
able collection of animals and birds living in perfectly natural condi- 
tions and with but little fear of man. 1 shall gladly aid in procuring 
any legislation to this end. 

In order to bring to the notice of the general public the aims and 
objects of the National Zoological Park, it was thought desirable to 
make at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition a more significant exhibit 
than has heretofore been shown. Accordingly application was made 
for a large "flying-cage" in which to exhibit })irds in conditions as nearly 
natural as possible. The United States Government Board considered 
the matter favorably, and an exhibit of this character was accordingl}' 
installed, and at the close of the year was in successful operation. I 

SM 1904 3 



34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

have been pleased to learn that no part of the Government exhibits has 
excited more popular interest there. 

Congress at its last session took up the important question of the 
definitive arrangement of streets in the vicinity of the Zoological Park, 
and established, b}' law, two such thoroughfares, one on the south- 
eastern, the other on the western side of the park. Two comparatively 
narrow strips are thus left between these roads and the park boundary, 
and it would be of great advantage if these strips could be added to 
the park. Attention has been called to this matter in previous reports, 
and 1 have again submitted to Congress an estimate of the sum required 
to effect the necessary purchase. 

I can, in conclusion, repeat my statement that the park is fulfilling 
more amply than ever the objects for which Congress founded it, 
" the advancement of science and the instruction and recreation of the 
people." 

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY. 

In my last year's report I stated that it was probable that the radia- 
tion of the sun after absorption by the earth's atmosphere as received 
at Washington, appeared to have fallen off by 10 per cent, and I added 
that there had possibly been a decrease of the solar radiation itself 
since the early part of the year 1903. I observed in this connection 
that there seemed renewed promise of progress toward the foretelling 
by such means of the remoter changes of weather which affect harvests, 
which was one of the great aims had in view in the foundation of the 
observatory. 

With the aid of the large horizontal telescope and the apparatus 
for obtaining distinct vision introduced by me and described in my 
last report, and more fully in that for the present year, I have con- 
tinued these investigations, particularly with reference to the increase 
or diminution of the original solar radiation, apart from that absorbed 
by the earth's atmosphere, and by means which are unaffected by that 
absorption. These observations, independent of any theory upon the 
subject, indicated that at the time of the observation in the last report 
this radiation fell off' at the source of energy in the sun, and that 
changes in the transmissibility of the solar atmosphere were a possible 
cause of at least a part of the effect observed on the earth. The amount 
by which this solar radiation was diminished, as determined at the 
source in the sun itself, appears to be in general accord with the state- 
ments of meteorological observatories as to the changed temperature 
at the earth's surface. 1 do not, however, venture to make the state- 
ment that the diminution was unquestionably due to a change in the 
solar envelope as an established fact, until further observations have 
been made, while I still call attention to the high importance of addi- 
tional stud}' of the question. 



REPORT OB" THE SECRETARY. 35 

NECROLOGY. 

DK. lAKI, AI,KKi;i) FELIX FLUdKL. 

In the death of Doctor Fliigel, whiih occurred in Leipzit,^, February 
<), UKH, the Smithsonian Institution lost a loyal assistant and an intel- 
li»»-ent and capal)le representative. Doctor Flii^el was appointed agent 
of the International Exchanj^e Service of the Institution for Germany, 
Austria, and the adjacent countries in 1855, a position he tilled for the 
remaining- nearly fifty years of his life. He was the official successor 
of his father, Dr. Johann Gottfried Fliigel, who was made agent of 
the Smithsonian Exchange Service, at the time of its organization in 
1847, l)y Prof, rloseph Henry, first Secretary of the Institution, he also 
having filled the position until his death in 1854. The son succeeded 
his father as United States vice-consul in Leipzig also, this position 
under the Government proving likewise a life appointment in the case 
of both father and son. 

Dr. Felix Fliigel was scholarly in his tastes and occupations by both 
inheritance and training, the father having been the first lecturer in 
Ejiglish in the University of Leipzig, where he received his doctor's 
degree in 1824, publishing in the same year a Grammar of the English 
Language, which remains a noteworthy record of the earlier period of 
English philology in Germany. Both father and son were persever- 
ing and laborious students in English, each publishing pamphlets and 
critical essays on the language, and each being the author of an English 
and German dictionary, that of the son having become a standard 
work, which reached its fifteenth edition in 1891. 

The long tenure of office of Dr. Felix Fliigel gave him an excep- 
tional opportunity to further the exchange work of the Smithsonian 
Institution throughout central Europe, and believing that the system 
was an important medium of scientific intercourse between the United 
States and Europe, he labored untiringl}^ for its development along 
practical lines, at the same time adding to exact business methods the 
charm of a personal courtesy and kindness which Avon man}' friends. 

It would be difficult to overestimate the intelligent and faithful serv-' 
ice rendered to the Institution for so many years by Doctor Fliigel, 
and the appreciation of his character expressed by those officials whose 
fortune it was to know him personall}^ is a sincere tribute to his 
capability and worth. 

DR. HENRY CARRINGTON BOLTON. 

Doctor Bolton, who died on November 19, 1908, was an earnest worker 
in the field of chemical bibliography. He unselfishly devoted many 
years of patient personal toil to the preparation of reference books 
of much value to all interested in the study of chemistry. He also 



3() REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

compiled a catalogue of scientitic periodicals of the world. Many of 
the results of his labors were liy him freely presented to the Smith- 
sonian Institution and were published in the series of Miscellaneous 
Collections. 

Doctor Bolton was born in New York City January 28, 1843. He 
graduated from Columbia College in 1862, and during the next four 
years studied at Heidelberg and Berlin, in 18H6 receiving the degree 
of Ph. D. at Gottingen. In 1875 he was assistant in the laboratory 
of the Columbia School of Mines, in 1875 professor of chemistry at 
the Woman's College of the New York Infirmary, from 1877 to 1887 
professor of chemistry at Trinity College, Hartford, Conn., when he 
retired from teaching and devoted the remaining years of his life 
chiefly to literary pursuits and to travel. For several years his winter 
home was in Washington City. He was a member of the New York 
Academy of Science (its president in 1803), of the American Associa- 
tion for the Advancement of Science, and one of the founders of the 
American Folk Lore Society. In 1897 he was president of the Library 
Association of Washington City; was president of the American 
Chemical Society in 1900, and was also a member of man}^ other 
learned bodies in Europe and the LTnited States, being a frequent 
contributor to their literary exercises and published transactions. 

His varied contributions to contemporary literature cover more 
than 200 titles, among which ma}' be mentioned The Scientific Corre- 
spondence of Joseph Priestley; Counting-Out Rhymes of Children; 
Catalogue of Scientific and Technical Periodicals, 1665-1897, and 
Select Bibliography of Chemistry, 1492-1902. 

Respectfully submitted. 

S. P. Langlet, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



APPENDIX TO THE SECRETARY'S REPORT. 



Appendix 1. 
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report npon the condition and oper- 
ations of the National Museum ilurin>;c the year ending June 30, 1904. 

Ground wa8 l)roken on June 15, 1904, for the new Museum building authorized by 
Congress in 1903, the first sod being turned by the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution in the presence of the architects, the superintendent of construction, and 
the othcera and employees of the Institution and its Bureaus. The ex(;avation for 
the foundation and basement was well under way at the close of the fiscal year, and 
it is hoped that nothing will arise to interfere with the speedy construction of the 
building. This additional home for the National Collections will be about 551 
feet long and 318 feet wide, exclusive of projections, thus exceeding in these dimen- 
sions all other buildings in the city of Washington except the Capitol. Its faces will 
be of light-colored granite, and its four stories will afford a floor area of about 9^ 
acres. 

It is gratifying to be able to state that notwithstanding the great pressure of work 
in the scientiiic departments, caused by the preparation of exhibits for the Louisiana 
Purchase Exposition, very satisfactory progress has been made in all of the operations 
of the Museum. 

The number of accessions received during the year was 1,703, or 60 more than in 
1903, and comprise a total of 241,547 specimens. Profitable exchanges have been 
made with other institutions and with private collectors, the number of duplicate 
specimens utilized for this purpose exceeding 9,000. 

The number of publications issued has been somewhat larger than usual, and their 
distri])ution, together with a large increase in the extent of the correspondence, Jias 
taxed to the utmost the otHce charged with these matters. 

The reserve or study collections have been extensively used by investigators and 
students both in Washington and elsewhere, and more than 20,000 specimens have 
been sent to specialists for examination and report. The number of lots of speci- 
mens received for identification has been 975. 

Buildings. — The roofs on the Museum building, and especially those covered with 
slate, have for a long period been in a very unsatisfactory condition, resulting mainly 
from the fact that they were constructed to<j cheaply in the beginning, and there- 
fore not as substantially as they should have been. Through the contraction and 
expansion of the iron supports by changes in temperature, the slate coverings have 
never been kept tight, and in other i)arts there has been greater or less trouble in 
regard to leakage, which has caused a constant defacement of the inner walls and 
some injury to the contents of the l)uilding. It is now realized that the only proper 
remedy would be to substitute a new roof for the present one, but as this can not be 
done at present, an effort is being made to institute more substantial repairs than 
heretofore, though at the best they can only be considered as temporary. The tin 

37 



38 REPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 

coverings, gutters, etc., do not present serious difficulties, though requiring exten- 
sive renovation. Experiments on the slate, however, have led to the trial of a cov- 
ering of asphalt, burlap, and slag, which has thus far resulted so favorably that it is 
now proposed to treat all the slate roofs in this manner. 

The archa-ological exhibition hall, the large upper room in the Smithsonian build- 
ing, which has been closed for some time on account of the extensive loosening and 
fall of idaster, has been entirely repaired and painted during the past year, but its 
opening to the public must l^e deferred for a while longer, or until its collections 
have been reinstalled. Many other repairs in both buildings have been made during 
the year, but they have been chiefly of a minor character. 

The number of specimen cases constructed has amounted to 212, and of specimen 
drawers to 3,378, mainly to accommodate the extensive accessions of the year, derived 
in greater part from Government scientific surveys. The fittings of all kinds for the 
cases and for the mounting of specimens have called for a large amount of labor and 
material. 

The pair of high-pressure steam boilers installed in the summer of 1901 for the 
heating of the two main buildings and the smaller adjacent buildings has continued 
to give entire satisfaction. The efficiency of the lire-protective system has been 
thoroughly tested during the year, with the result that some of the extinguishers of 
old pattern have been replaced by others of more modern make. 

Organization and staff.— A few changes in the organization of the Museum have 
been made as follows: 

The title of the "Division of Religions" has been changed to "Division of Historic 
Religions," with Dr. Cyrus Adler as honorary curator, and the former "Section of 
Historic Religious Ceremonials" has been abolished. That of the "Division of His- 
tory and Biography" has been changed to "Division of History," with Mr. A. 
Howard Clark as honorary curator and Mr. Paul E. Beckwith as assistant curator, 
the "Section of American History" being omitted. The "Section of Electricity" 
has been abolished. 

Mr. William H. Holmes, formerly head curator of the Department of Anthropology, 
but now Chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology, has accepted the position of 
honorary curator of the Division of Prehistoric Archeology, and Mr. J. D. McGuire 
that of collaborator in the same division. Other appointments have been as follows: 
Dr. Edward L. Greene, formerly professor of botany in the Catholic University of 
America, as associate in botany; Mr. Paul Brockett as custodian of the Section of 
Graphic Arts; Mr. AV^alter L. Hahn as aid in the Division of Mammals, and Mr. J. S. 
Goldsmith as superintendent of construction and labor, being a part of the service 
performed by the late Dr. J. E. Watkins, whose lamented death occurred on August 
11, 1903. 

A number of members of the scientific staff have severed their connection with the 
Museum, all at their own volition, to accept positions at higher compensation else- 
where. Among these were Mr. F. A. Lucas, curator of Comparative Anatomy, who 
has become curator in chief of the museum of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and 
Sciences; Mr. Louis Pollard, assistant curator in the Division of Plants; Mr. Rolla P. 
Currie, aid in the Division of Insects; and Mr. W. C. Phalen, aid, and Mr. R. S. Bassler 
and Mr. Alvan Stewart, jireparators, in the Department of Geology. 

It may also be mentioned in this connection that Mr. Charles Schuchert, assistant 
curator of Stratigraphic Paleontology, attended the Ninth International Geological 
Congress, held at Vienna from August 20 to 27, 1903, as the representative of the 
Smithsonian Institution and the Museum; while in the same capacity Mr. Leonhard 
Stejneger, curator of Reptiles, Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., assistant curator of Mammals, 
and Dr. C. W. Stiles, custodian of Helminthological Collections, will be present at 
the Sixth Internati<jnal Congress of Zoology at Berne during August of this year, 
and Mr. William II. Holmes at the Congress of Americanists to be held at Stuttgart 



REVOUT OK THE SECRETARY. 39 

<lurin<? tlio same month. Messrs. Stejnef,'er, .Miller, Stiles, :ir\<l Holmes liave also been 
(l«'si<,Mmte<l by the Department of State as oliicial re{)re.M<"iitatives of the (lovernment 
on the two oeeasions name<l. 

Ad(litlo)it< to IhecoUeclinm.—Thv nnniber of separate lots of material received during 
the year was 1,708, comprising 241,547 specimens in all, or 5,000 more than the pre- 
vious year. The total ntnnl)er of specimens recorded in all departments of the Museum 
is now 5.894,620 specimens, of which more than 4,100,000 belong to the Department 
of Biology, nearly 975,000 to the Department of Anthropology, and about 780,000 to 
the Department of Geology. 

Collections sent by Dr. W. L. Abbott from the Malay peninsula, northern Sumatra, 
and the adjacent archipelago contain the most interesting additions in Anthropology, 
and in conjunction with his ])revious contributions from the same and other parts of 
Asia constitute an exceedingly valuable and uni<iue feature of the ethnological 
exhibits. Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army, who has ccmtinued his scientific work in 
the Philippine Islands, presented collections of special interest obtained by himself 
during the campaign against the Moros. Another Moro collection, consisting of 
edged weapons, spears, and costumes, was received from Dr. R. B. Grubb, also of 
the United States Army. The very valuable collection of archeological objects 
obtained in Cuba, Trinidad, Grenada, Barbados, Dominica, Porto Rico, and other 
West Indian islands by Dr. .1. Walter Fewkes, of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 
during the winter of 1903, has been transferred to the keeping of the Museum. It 
contains a very large variety of objects which will probably aid materially in solving 
the problem of the ancient relations between North and South America. The same 
Bureau has also deposited a large series of specimens recently taken from caverns, 
rock shelters, and village sites in the Ozark region of Missouri and Arkansas. A 
number of Tlinkit house posts and totem poles was obtained from Dr. George A. 
Dorsey, of the Field Columbian Museum, and a valuable lot of art objects from south- 
western Alaska, consisting of carved clubs, knives, embroidered blankets, etc., from 
Lieut. G. T. Emmons, U. S. Navy. Some curious earthenware vessels from aboriginal 
graves in Argentina were presented by Mr. Felix F. Outes, of Buenos Aires, and 
several knives with handles and blades in one piece, as well as flint implements, 
from the temple of Osiris, Abydos, were contributed by the Egypt exploration fund. 
The collections in prehistoric archeology have been enriched by a series of Egyptian 
stone implements presented by Mr. H. W. Seton-Karr, of England, and representing 
a type peculiar to the Fayum district, as well as by a large series of specimens chiefly 
from a few localities in the Miami Valley, and forming part of the bequest of the 
late I. H. Harris, of Waynesville, Ohio. The latter contribution also includes a 
typical series of earthenware vessels from mounds near Charleston, Mo. 

To the recently established Division of Physical Anthropology have been added 
more than 2,000 crania and skeletons by transfer from the Army Medical Museum, 
11 crania of Wasco Indians from the Fred Harvey collection, and other desirable 
specimens. 

The additions to the historical collections have included a valuable series of relics 
presented by Gen. John Watts de Peyster, who has also made several contributions 
of important historical works; the gilt dress sword presented to Gen. Jacob Brown, 
by the State of New York, for valuable services during the Revolutionary war, 
donated by his grandson, Mr. Nathan Brown Chase; an oil portrait of George Catlin, 
painted by W. H. Fisk, R. A., in 1849, deposited by his daughter, Mrs. Louise 
Catlin Kinney; numerous relics deposited by the National Society of the Daughters 
of the American Revolution, and the sword and epaulettes worn by Gen. Alex. 
McComb, U. S. Army. 

The technological exhibits have been materially increased; among the accessions 

of special interest being a collection of rifles, nmskets, and other lirearms of his- 

• torical value, 615 in number, deposited by the Bureau of Ordnance of the War 



40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Dei^artment; a collection of Morse telegraph keys, insulators, and other electrical 
ajiparatus, presented by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company; a collection illustrat- 
ing the development of the hand camera, by the Eastman Kodak Company; a 
collection of sporting rifles of the kind used in this country prior to 1850, lent 1)y 
Mr. Herman Hollerith, and a rare form of flintlock pistol with folding bayonet, 
presented by Mr. Paul Beckwith. 

The accessions to the Departme: t of Biology embraced 151,000 specimens, or nearly 
41,000 more than the previous year. The collection of insects was increased by 
about 59,000 specimens, the herbarium by about 43,000, while the remaining 49,000 
specimens were divided among the other divisions. 

The most extensive of the zoological collections, in point of number of specimens, 
consisted of about 40,000 insects ol)tained in British Columbia by Dr. Harrison G. 
Dyar, assisted by Mr. Rolla P. Currie and Mr. A. N. Caudell. The Bureau of Fish- 
eries transmitted large collections of land and fresh-water shells, reptiles, and crus- 
taceans from Indiana and other States; a valuable series of marine mollusks, chiefly 
from Alaska; the types of recently described fishes from Japan, the Hawaiian 
Islands, etc. ; fishes, crustaceans, and corals secured in connection with the Alaskan 
salmon-fisheries investigation of 1903, and 461 plants from Alaska and Oregon. 

Especially worthy of mention are the important zoological contributions from the 
Mentawei Archipelago, Sumatra, and various islands off the eastern coast of Sumatra, 
obtained and presented by Dr. William L. Abbott. Thirty-one new forms of mam- 
mals and several new species of birds are represented in the collection from the 
archipelago, while those from eastern Sumatra also contain very valuable material, 
including numerous forms of birds and reptiles not previously received. Several 
valuable lots of zoological specimens from Minnesota and the Philippine Islands 
were donated by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army. A large number of mammals, 
birds, reptiles, and fishes from the Bahama Islands were secured as the result of the 
expedition sent to those islands by the Baltimore Geographical Society, and of 
which Mr. B. A. Bean and Mr. J. H. Riley, of the Museum staff, were members. 
A valuable collection of birds' eggs and reptiles from Texas was transmitted l)y the 
Biological Survey of the Department of Agriculture. 

Noteworthy among the mammals received w^ere a specimen of a remarkable species 
of bat, Eudei-ma mamlalum, presented by Mr. E. O. Wooton, of Mesilla Park, N. Mex. ; 
the first authentic specimen of a jaguar from the United States; a rare mouse-deer, 
Traguhis stanleyanv.s, obtained from M. Emile Deschamps; a collection of Old World 
mammals, obtained from W. Schliiter; a collection of Japanese mammals from 
Mr. T. Tsuchida; some rare forms of bats from the British Museum, and a collection 
of Colombian mammals from the American Museum of Natural History. 

An interesting series of birds of the Philippine Islands was secured by exchange 
with the Museum in Manila. Mr. Homer Davenport, of East Orange, N. J., pre- 
sented a number of young pheasants, and Mr. N. C. Brown, of Portland, Me., a well- 
prepared series of the birds of North Carolina. Four species of birds of paradise, 
new to the collection, were purchased. Dr. W. L. Ralph, of the Museum staff, and 
Gen. J. W. Barlow made generous contributions to the collection of birds' eggs, and 
series of rare Mexican eggs and of the eggs of the Hoactzin were purchased. 

A collection of Japanese reptiles was presented by Dr. Hugh M. Smith, and some 
rare reptiles of southern Florida by Mr. E. J. Brown, of Lemon City, Fla. The 
Division of Fishes has received a large number of Japanese species from the Leland 
Stanford Junior University, and a well-prepared series of specimens from Paget 
Sound, donated by Dr. J. C. Thompson, U. S. Navy. A specimen of the Japanese 
shark, Mllsnkuria owstoni, was purchased. 

Hawaiian land shells and other invertebrates were received from Mr. H. W. Hen- 
shaw, of Hilo, Hawaii; Dr. R. E. C. Stearns, honorary associate in zoology, now 
residing in Los Angeles, Cal., presented an extensive series of west American shells. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41 

and Mr. II. N. Lowe and Mrs. Blanche Trank, several lots of Californian shells; Mr. 
E. J. Court, of Washington, 1). C., donated a representative series of the land shells 
of Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia; Dr. Dwight Blaney about 800 
shells dredged near Mount Desert, Me., and Mr. C. A. Davis, many Bermuda shells, 
ineluding several cotypes. Among the specimens obtained by purchase was a large 
collection of Japanese land and marine moUusks, and land shells from the Pacific 
coast and the islands off California. 

The Division of Marine Invertebrates received a collection of Mexican fresh-water 
crabs from the Biological Survey of the Department of Agriculture; crustaceans from 
Catalina and San Clenu'ute Islands, presented by Mr. H. N. Lowe; cotypes of a 
species of shrimp and of a stomatopod crustacean from the National Museum of 
Brazil; several beautiful specimens of the Japanese precious coral from Dr. K. 
Kishinouye; and a collection of sea urchins, chiefly from the Gulf of Siam, from the 
Zoological Museum in Copenhagen. 

The additions to the Division of Insects were numerous and valuable. Among 
those of greatest importance may be noted two lots of over 6,000 specimens from the 
Department of Agriculture; an extensive collection of Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, etc., 
made by Mr. E. A. Schwarz, in Texas; several lots of Philippine insects from Rev. 
W. A. Stanton, of Manila, and one from Mr. R. C. McGregor, of the Philippine 
Museum; a large miscellaneous collection from the grounds of the Washington Biol- 
ogists's Field Club at Plummer's Island; and a valuable collection of Lepidoptera, 
from Mr. E. M. Anderson, of the Provincial Museum at Victoria, British Columbia. 
From foreign sources the following collections were received as gifts: Indian Hymen- 
optera from Maj. C. G. Nurse; Indian spiders from Prof. N. JamVjunathan; Venezu- 
elan beetles from Mr. Edward A. Klages; Peruvian insects from Mr. M. J. Pusey; 
and Norwegian Lepidoptera from Sir George Hampson, of the British Museum. 

Of 555 accessions to the Division of Plants, the most valuable was the deposit made 
by Dr. E. L. Greene, of his collection of about 60,000 sheets of plants, and his entire 
botanical library. Next in importance was the gift by Mrs. T. A. Williams, of Mem- 
phis, Nebr., of about 15,000 plants from various parts of the United States. Mr. C. 
V. Piper, of Pullman, Wash., presented more than 600 plants from that State, and 
Mr. E. W. D. Hoi way, of Minneapolis, Minn., an interesting collection of Mexican 
plants. Important exchanges were made with the Philippine Bureau of Agriculture, 
the New York Botanical tJarden, and the Royal Gardens at Kew, England. Sixty- 
eight ])otanical accessions were received from the Department of Agriculture, the 
most important comprising specimens obtained in Texas by Mr. Arthur Howell, 
in New Mexico and Oklahoma by Mr. Fred. G. Plummer, and in New Mexico by 
Mr. Vernon Bailey. Plants from Australia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and 
from several of the States were acquired by purchase. 

The most extensive additions to the geological collections were, as usual, received 
from the United States Geological Survey, prominent among them having been about 
40,000 invertebrate fossils, mostly named and including a large amount of material 
on which Dr. William H. Dalland his assistants have been working for several years. 
The Survey also transmittetl a series of 1 ,932 tertiary insects, assembled by Dr. Samuel 
H. Scudder, together with a number of original drawings. The acquisition of this 
material is believed to make the Museum collection of fossil insects the largest in the 
LTnited States, if not in the world. 

A collection of platiniferous rocks from the Demidoff mines in Russia was pre- 
sented by Juarez Sponville; a series of rocks illustrating the occurrence and associa- 
tion of diamonds at the De Beers consolidated mines in South Africa, by Mr. Gardner 
F. Williams, manager of the mines; a rich nugget of native silver, by A. L. Pellegrin, 
.of Nogales, Ariz., and a specimen of diamond-bearing gravel from Minas Geraes, 
Brazil, to which a small diamond was attached, by Dr. O. A. Derby, of Sao Paulo. 



42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

A fine mass of amethystine quartz, weighing ahout 400 pounds, was ohtained from 
Ward's Natural Science Estabhshment, Rochester, N. Y. 

The Division of Minerals was enriched by a large collection illustrating the occur- 
rence and association of the zeolites and siliceous minerals of New Jersey, obtained 
through the assistance of Dr. W. S. Disbrow, of Newark, N. J., who also transmitted 
one of the first known crystals of American spodumene. Other important gifts were 
a specimen of pink spodumene, from Mr. F. M. Sickler; a series of artificial stones 
used in the gem trade, from Mr. Oscar T. Jonassohn; a cut turquoise from North 
Carolina, from Mr. Eugene A. Smith, and some fine specimens of smoky quartz from 
Messrs. A. P. Pohndorf and J. R. Wharton. 

For the meteorite collection specimens illustrating the Trenzano fall, the France- 
ville iron, the Mukerop iron, and the Finnmarken pallasite have been acquired. 

Of invertebrate fossils, the accession next in importance to that transferred by the 
United States Geological Survey was the last portion of the E. O. Ulrich collection, 
containing about 15,000 specimens, besides 500 lots of original types or of specimens 
that have been used for illustration. A series of Lower Silurian fossils, selected by 
Mr. Charles Schuchert while in Russia, was presented by the Imperial Academy of 
Sciences, of St. Petersburg, through the cooperation of Dr. Frederich von Schmidt, 
and a valuable donation consisting of nearly 600 specimens of Hamilton brachiopods 
was received from the Yale University Museum. By exchange with the Zoological 
Museum of the University of Copenhagen, more than a hundred specimens of 
identified European mesozoic and tertiary bryozoans were obtained. 

•To the collection of fossil vertebrates were added fine specimens of pterodactyl, 
ichthyosaurus, and teleosaurus; some fishes from the lithographic limestone, and a 
fossil skull of Bhon Alleni from a placer deposit of frozen gravel, 25 feet below the 
surface. The object last mentioned was presented by Messrs. McLain and Ballou, of 
Rampart City, Alaska, and is especially noteworthy as being the first specimen of the 
species discovered in Alaska. 

One hundred and thirty-two fossil plants collected in the Iowa anthracite beds 
were donated by Mr. C. W. Unger, of Pottsville, Pa., and 190 specimens of fossil 
plants from Illinois, Ohio, and other localities, forming part of the Carl Rominger 
collection, were also obtained. 

ExploratioTis.— Bui few explorations were carried on last year by members of the 
Museum staff, owing to the lack of funds. Dr. Walter Hough spent some time in 
Arizona and New Mexico, where he made a large collection of ethnological and 
archeological objects. The expedition sent to the Bahamas during the summer of 
190.'} by the Baltimore Geographical Society and Johns Hopkins University, under 
the direction of Dr. G. B. Shattuck, was accompanied by Mr. Barton A. Bean and 
Mr. J. H. Riley, who took an active part in the work of collecting and observation. 
Dr. Harrison G. Dyar and Mr. Rolla P. Currie were members of a party sent to 
British Columbia by the Carnegie Museum of Pittsburg. During a trip to Europe Mr. 
Charles Schuchert collected some valuable fossils, and while seeking material for the 
Louisiana Purchase Exposition Dr. George P. Merrill obtained many geological 
specimens for the Museum on the Pacific coast and in Canada and western Mexico. 
Having been designated by the State Department and the Smithsonian Institution 
as delegates to the International Congress of Zoology at Berne, Switzerland, during 
the summer of 1904, Dr. Leonhard Stejneger and Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., left Wash- 
ington in May with the object also of making collections of mammals and reptiles in 
Europe, and of studying the specimens of these groups in the principal P'uropean 
museums. Short collecting trips, not necessary to mention here, were also made by 
other members of the staff. 

There have been many explorations through which the Museum has profited, by 
private individuals and by other Government bureaus, of which a few may be noted. 
Dr. William L. Abbot has continued his field work in Sumatra, the Mentawei Archi- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43 

pelago, and along the coast and on tlie islands east of Sumatra. In connection with 
the investigations of the Jiureau of Fisheries, Dr. Hugh M. Smith has visited Japan, 
and Dr. B. W. Everniann, Prof. Charles H. Gilbert, and Prof. O. P. Jenkins have 
made extensive exjtlorations in Hawaii. The natural history bureaus of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, and especially the Biological »Survey, have made important col- 
lections in different parts of the United States. 

Field work under the Bureau of American Ethnology, productive of collections, 
has been carried on by Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, in the West Indies, and by Mr. James 
Mooney, Mr. (Jerard Fowke, Mrs. M. C. Stevenson, and Mr. J. R. Swanton, in the 
West. Reference should also be made to the important work conducted in the Phil- 
ippine Islands by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. S. Army, one of the most frequent contribu- 
tors to the Museum collections. 

Resmrrhrs. — Of the material which reaches the Museum, a part has previously been 
studied and a part not, but the proportion either way would be difficult to state and 
varies from year to year. The act founding the establishment provides that the 
collections shall be arranged and classified, and therefore in selecting the caretakers, 
persons skilled in the various branches represented are chosen to the extent of the 
funds available. It is recognized that their first obligation is to look out for the 
safety of the specimens in their charge, and as the technical staff under pay is rela- 
tively small, attention to this duty consumes the greater part of their time. About 
one-half of the scientific staff, moreover, consists of volunteers, on whom the same 
demands can not be made, though some of these are equally attentive to the routine 
work. The scientific results accomplished each year by the Museum staff as a whole 
is, nevertheless, relatively extensive, comprising mainly the identification, labeling 
and description of specimens, and their classified arrangement in cases and drawers, 
so as to make them convenient for reference. 

For a large part of tlie scientific work, however, assistance must be obtained from 
experts connected with other establishments. Entire groups of specimens may be 
assigned to individuals for working up, or advantage may be taken of researches in 
progress elsewhere to have material of greater or less extent identified, and visiting 
scientific men are often willing to spend some time upon such parts of the collections 
as come within their knowledge. It is impossible within the limits of this report to 
account for all the w'ork of this character carried on during the past year, but the 
number of persons concerned, not including those on the Museum staff, was in the 
neighborhood of 200, and over 20,000 specimens were sent away for study. The coop- 
eration with persons living elsewhere is far greatest in connection with the Depart- 
ment of Biology, whose varied collections have long attracted widespread interest, 
and have led to many extensive and important investigations. 

Exchanges. — Many exchanges of duplicate specimens with other institutions and 
with individuals have been made with satisfactory results for the Museum. The 
establishments abroad with which such transactions were most extensively carried 
on were the Albany Museum at Grahamstown, South Africa; the K. K. Naturhis- 
tori.sches Hofmuseum at Vienna; the Zoological Institute of the Imperial University 
at Vienna; the Botanical Museum at Berlin; the Museum of Natural History at 
Paris; the Zoological Museum of the University of Copenhagen; the Royal Frederick 
University of Christiania, and the Royal Botanic Garden at Sibpur, Calcutta. 

The distribution of duplicates to colleges and other echu-ational institutions through- 
out the country has been limited during the year to fishes, marine invertebrates, and 
geological specimens illustrating rock weathering and soil formation, of which 97 sets 
have been sent out. Some duplicate sets of fossils are now being prepared for the 
same purpose. The applications for such material to aid in the teaching of natural 
• history are far more numerous than can be supplied, the assistants qualified to select 
and label the specimens being generally too busily occupied in other ways. The 



44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

present crowded condition of the Museum also interferes with the overhauling of the 
collections, which is necessary in picking out the duplicates. 

I'he exhibition /laZZs.— Although no increase in the amount of exhibition space is 
possible in the present building, yet by resorting to various expedients and removing 
specimens to storage a little more room may be obtained here and there for the die- 
play of exhibits or single objects which it is thought may prove of greater interest to 
the public. 

In the Department of Anthropology a few cases have been added in the northwest 
court gallery for an exhibit of Indian baskets, this subject having gained special 
prominence through the publication of Prof. O. T. Mason's recent paper. Space has 
also been provided for a portion of the splendid Malaysian collection received from 
Dr. William L. Abbott. A collection of lamps, a typical series of guns, and three 
table-cases containing revolvers and pistols of various dates and makes have been 
arranged in the east hall, and a number of ethnological objects from the Philippine 
Islands in the gallery of the northwest court. The collection of musical instruments 
has been partly reinstalled. Among the technological objects has been placed the 
cylinder of the Hornblower engine, the first steam engine put together on the western 
continent, having been imported from England in 1753. 

The groups of ethnological lay figures returned from recent expositions have been 
installed wherever a place could be found for them, some having been arranged in 
the lecture hall. 

But little was done toward preparing new exhibits in the Department of Biology, 
as other and more urgent work has. interfered. Some of the more valuable birds 
have been remounted, and four groups of game birds have been installed in two new 
cases at the entrance to the Smithsonian building. The unoccupied cases in the 
southeast range set apart for casts of fishes will soon be filled by new preparations 
now in course of making. A beginning has been made toward the installation of a 
series of specimens illustrating the mollusk fauna of the District of Columbia, one 
case having already been completed. 

To the display collection in the Deitartmentof Geology have been added the skulls 
of a new genus of Ceratopsia, and of Diplodocus and Trachodon, and also a mounted 
skeleton of Syornis casuarinus from New Zealand. The Claosaurus, mentioned in 
last year's report, is exhibited near the south wall of the southeast court. 

Visitors.— The number of persons who visited the Museum building during the 
year was 220,778, and the Smithsonian building, 143,988, being an approximate daily 
average of 705 for the former and of 460 for the latter. The decrease as compared 
with the previous year was a result of the large attendance at the time of the encamp- 
ment of the Grand Army of the Republic in OctoVjer, 1902. Since the first occupa- 
tion of the Museum building in 1881, the total number of visitors recorded has been 
over 8,000,000. 

Meetings and lectures.— On February 20 and 27, and March 5, 12, and 19, a series of 
lectures was given m the lecture hall under the auspices of the Biological Society of 
Washington by Mr. Charles H. Townsend, Mr. Gifford Pinchot, Mr. E. W. Nelson, 
Prof. Henry F. Osborn, and Dr. C. Hart Merriam, the average attendance having 
been about 1,000. The closing exercises of the Naval Medical School and the Army 
Medical School were held in the same place on March 21 and April 5, respectively. 
The American Oriental Society had its annual meeting in the lecture hall on April 
7 and 8, and the National Academy of Sciences from April 19 to 21. On June 13 an 
illustrated lecture entitled " Botanical Tramps with a Camera" was delivered by Dr. 
C. E. Waters, of Johns Hopkins University, under the auspices of the Wild Flower 
Preservation Society of America. 

Puhlications.— The publications issued during the year comprised 6 volumes and 59 
technical Proceedings papers, being an increase over previous years, due partly to 
delays in completing volumes belonging to 1903. The 6 volumes referred to were 
Nos. 25, 26, and 27 of the Proceedings, the .Annual Reports for 1901 and 1902, and 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45 

Prof. C. C. Nnlliiig's HKinonraph on the Si-rtnlarian hydroids, forniinj; i)art 2 of 
Special Bulletin No. 4. 

The three volumes of Proceedings contained in all 110 papers, of which 89 relate 
to iishes, in to insects, 18 to marine invertebrates, 10 to birds, and the remainder to 
maninials, mollusks, i)lants, reptiles, fossils, and meteorites. 

The Appendix to the Report for 1901 was made up of five papers, as follows: 
" Report on the Exhibit of the United States National Museum at the Pan-American 
Exposition, Buffalo, N. Y., 1901;" "Flint Implements and Fossil Remains from a 
Sulphur Spring at Afton, Ind. T.," and "Classification and Arrangement of the 
Exhibits of an Anthropological Museum," by Mr. William 11. Holmes; "An^heolog- 
ical Field Work in Northeastern Arizona," by Dr. Walter Hough, and "Narrative 
of a Visit to Indian Tribes of the Purus River, Brazil," by Prof. J. B. Steere. 

The Report for 1902 contained an elaborate paper by Prof. O. T. Mason on "Abo- 
riginal American Basketry: Studies in a Textile Art without Machinery "; one by 
Dr. ].eonhard Stejneger, entitled "The Ilerpetology of Porto Rico"; and one by Mr. 
F. V. Coville, entitled " Wokas— Primitive Food of the Klamath Indians." 

Several papers by members of the Museum staff on material contained in the 
Museum were, by permission of the Secretary, printed in various journals, and a 
number were also published in the quarterly issue of the Miscellaneous Collections 
of the Smithsonian Institution. 

The Annual Report for 1903, now ready to go to press, will have a paper by the 
Assistant Secretary on the buildings occupied by the National Collections, and a 
translation of the three papers by Dr. A. B. Meyer, director of the Royal Zoological 
Anthropological-Ethnographical museums in Dresden, on the principal museums of 
New York State, Chicago, and several European countries. 

Librarij.— The library of the National Museum has received as a gift from Prof. 
Otis T. Mason, in addition to one made some years ago, about 2,000 pamphlets, sepa- 
rates, and bound quarto volumes mostly on anthropological subjects, for which a 
special bookplate has been provided. The Museum has also received from Dr. 
Edward L. Greene his entire botanical library, which has been placed on deposit 
for a period of ten years in connection with his botanical collections. 

The aggregate of additions to the Museum library for the year amounted to 1,504 
books, 3,187 pamphlets, and 700 parts of volumes. 

Expositions.— The exhibits prepared by the Museum for the Louisiana Purchase 
Exposition were properly arranged before the opening day, and the zeal and activity 
displayed by the curators, preparators and others engaged in their preparation, 
shipment, and installation are highly commendable. The collections are grouped 
under the three general heads of anthropology, biology, and geology. A brief 
account of them will be found in the Museum report for this year, while the official 
report of Dr. F. W. True, representative of the Institution and the National Museum, 
will be published later. 

Congress at its last session made provision for the celebration of the one hundredth 
anniversary of the exploration of the Oregon region by Capts. Meriwether Lewis 
and William Clark, including a (Government exhibit, for which the sum of $200,000 
was appropriated, besides $250,000 for a suitable building. The bill S. 276, intro- 
duced by Senator John H. Mitchell on November 11, 1903, was approved by the 
President on April 13, 1904. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Richard Rathbun, 

Assistant Secretary in charge of the U. S. National Museum. 

Mr. S. P. Langley, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

August 1, 1904. 



Appendix II. 
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY. 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of the 
Bureau of American Ethnology for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1904, conducted 
in accordance with the act of Congress making provisions for continuing researches 
relating to the American Indians under the direction of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. The work has been carried out, with some minor modifications, in accordance 
with plans of operations submitted, the first on June 11 and the second on Septem- 
l)er 26, and duly approved by the Secretary. The first plan provided for the month 
of July only. The Smithsonian Institution was engaged in an examination into the 
affairs of the Bureau, and until this was brought to a conclusion it was not regarded 
as feasible to formulate plans for the year. The plan for July was extended to the 
months of August and September, and on the 1st of October a plan of operations for 
the remaining nine months of the year was submitted and duly approved by the 
Secretary. 

On July 31 Mr. W J McGee, ethnologist in charge, tendered his resignation, which 
was accepted, and the position of ethnologist in charge was discontinued. 

The research work has been carried forward by a permanent force of eight 
scientific employees, and a number of temporary assistants have been engaged for 
periods of varying lengths, both in the office and among the tribes. Field operations 
were interfered with to some extent during the early months of the year, the presence 
of the various ethnologists being required in the office in connection with the exami- 
nation referred to above. 

During the year five members of the staff prosecuted systematic researches in the 
field, and the sections of the country visited by these and by special assistants include 
Alaska, British Columbia, Oregon, California, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Indian 
Territory, and the West Indies. Mr. James Mooney was in the field eleven months, 
Mrs. M. C. Stevenson nearly six months. Dr. J. W. Fewkes five months, Dr. John 
R. Swanton six months, and Mr. H. H. St. Clair, 2nd, four months— a total of 
thirty-two months. 

The researches have dealt more or less directly with a large part of the anthropolog- 
ical field, and more especially with the history and archeology of the pre-Columbian 
tribes of the West Indies; with the social, religious, and esthetic activities of the 
tribes of the Great Plains; with the mythology, social institutions, ceremonies, and 
art of the Pueblo Indians; with the languages, mythology, and art of the Alaskan 
tribes, and with the languages of certain vanishing tribal remnants dwelling in 
northern California. The collecting of ethnological and archeological specimens 
and of data relating thereto, especially in the field of symbolism as embodied in art, 
has received special attention from the field workers. 

The scientific researches and work carried on in the office were of exceptional 
importance, particularly in connection with the preparation of a cyclopedia of the 
Indian tribes, the writing of a handbook of American languages, the compilation of 
an archeological map of the United States, the study of visiting delegations of Indians, 
and the preparation of exhibits for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition. The edi- 
torial and library work, the cataloguing of manuscripts, the preparation of illustra- 
tions, and the general clerical work have been carried forward in the usual manner. 
46 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47 

It was found iinprac'tii-ahle, on account of tlie restricted reHources of the Bureau, to 
provide for all the hranches of work referred to in the plan of operations for the 
year. The transcription of the Motul Dictionary was not taken up, and the (-ataloj^u- 
inp of l)ooks and photographic negatives has not receive*! the attention it deserves. 
The lack of a permanent force suthcient to cover all the ground was, however, com- 
pensated for in part by the temporary employment of special expert help in direc- 
tions where such help could be made most effective. 

EXPOSITION WORK. 

The preparation of an exhibit for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, begun dur- 
ing the i)receding year, was continued, and completed shortly after the opening of 
the exposition in May. This work was under the personal supervision of the Cliief, 
who at the same time Jiad charge of the preparation of an extensive exhibit for the 
Department of Anthropology of the United States National Museum. The allot- 
ment of $2,000, made by the Government Board for the Bureau exhibit, was too 
small to warrant the assemblage of an extensive disijlay; moreover, the space 
assigned was extremely scant, and it was decided to confine the exhibit to illustra- 
tions of the present field researches of the ethnological corps of the Bureau. 

Seeking a subject that would be well within the range of the Bureau's legitimate 
field and yet susceptible of effective presentation by means of oV>jective material, it 
was decided to take up and illustrate as the chief topic the mythic symbolism of 
various tribes as embodied in their decorative arts. Prominent among the concepts 
thus embodied are the various forms of animal and plant life, clouds, lightning, 
rain, sun, moon, and stars, as well as various monsters existing only in the imagina- 
tion. These motives are interwoven with the thought and life of the people, and are 
introduced freely into their various arts. The forms taken by them are exceedingly 
varied, undergoing modifications with the different peoples, and takine distinct 
forms in each art according to the nature and form of the object, the method 
employed in execution, and the purpose in view. 

In selecting the exhibits only the most important symbolic concepts of the tribes 
represented were chosen, and for each of these concepts a group of exhibits was 
assembled, consisting of a limited number of specimens of native workmanship in 
carving, modeling, painting, and engraving, and a series of the native designs drawn 
out in colors on a flat surface and associated with the specimens in the exhibit a^ a 
means of further elucidating the strange modifications everywhere displayed. 

The series of motives selected to illustrate the symbolic decoration of the Zuiiis 
include the Vjird, the butterfly, the cornflower insect, the dragon fly, the serpent, the 
frog and the tadpole, and the mountain lion; the human form and various monsters; 
vegetable forms; and sundry cosmic phenomena, such as clouds, lightning, rain, sun, 
moon, stars, and the planets. Doctor Swanton selected from the art of the Northwest 
coast tribes a series of very interesting subjects, including the killer whale, the hawk, 
the eagle, the thunderbird, and other monsters of the land and the sea. Doctor 
Fewkes presented the very artistic symbolism of the ancient tribes of Tusayan in 
series of illustrations, including the human form, the serpent, the mountain lion, the 
frog and tadpole, the butterfly, the bird, the sunflower, and the heavenly bodies. 

These exhibits were supplemented by a series of designs and objects selected by 
Dr. Franz Boas to illustrate the varied symbolism associated with a given motive or 
design by different tribes and peoples. 

In addition to these systematic exhibits, two other important collections were pre- 
sented. The archeological researches of Doctor Fewkes in the West Indies were 
represented by a large series of typical relics of art in stone, bone, shell, wood, and 
clay, selected from the extensive collections made during three winters' research 



48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ainoii<r the islands. This series is witliout question the most conn)lete yet brought 
together lo represent the pre-Cohinihian culture of the Carih and Arawak peoples, 
who were practically exterminated by tlu; Spanish invaders. Mr. Mooney, who is 
engaged in the study of the heral<lry system of the (Jreat Plains tribes, midertook to 
prepare a series of exhibits illustrating this heretofore undeveloped l)ranch of 
research. The exhibit consists of shields and models of shields and tipis embel- 
lished with the heraldic symbols of the native owners, skins showing elaborate 
designs in brilliant colors executed by native artists, and numerous other Fi)ecimens 
having a l)eariiig on this phase of the culture of the (Jreat Plains tribes. 

Tlu! pre|)aration of an extended exhibit for the National Museum gave the Chief 
the opportunity of assendjling a large series of exhil)its illustrating the higher 
achievements of the American race in various branches of art, including architecture, 
sculpture, plastic art, <;arving, basketry, featherwork, and weaving. A leading fea- 
ture of the work consisted of restorations of a number of the great ruined buildings 
of Mexico and Yucatan. Five models of buildings were made: One on a scale of 
one-twelfth, one on a scale of one-eighteenth, and three on a scale of one twenty- 
fourth, and much time and research were expended in collecting data and in deter- 
mining the details of construction and emV)ellishment. Working plans for use in 
the building of these models wen^ prepared by Mr. De Lancey (Jill, and the models 
were constructed by Mr. H. W. llendley and Mr. W. II. Gill. 

KIEIJ) WOKK. 

Mr. James Mooney, ethnologist, remained in the field during nearly tlie entire fis- 
cal year, dividing his time betwecui the Kiowa and the Cheyenne, with their asso- 
ciated triV)es in western Oklahoma, in accordance with the existing joint agreement 
between the Bureau and the Field Colum>)ian Museum. The two tribes referred to 
occupy a<ljoining reservations recently opened to white settlement, with agencies 
about 100 miles apart. 

During .Inly, 1903, Mr. Mooney was operating (^hieflj^ in the Cheyenne camp, 
spending a week in attendance at tlie great annual sun danc^e, where he succeeded 
in obtaining the first photographs ever made of the skull-dragging ceremony, and 
obtained for the National Mu.seum the sacred buffalo skull used on the altar of 
the dance. Shortly afterward he was recalled to Washington, where he remained 
until October, returning to the field in time to witness the tomahawk dance of the 
Arapaho — an interesting ceremony held only at intervals of several years on the 
occasion of the promotion of the young men of a certain military society from a 
lower to a higher degree. IIeud()uarters having been temi)orarily established at 
Darlington, the Cheyenne-Ara])alio yVgency, the winter months were s|)ent in gath- 
ering additional Cheyenne information and in putting the final touches on a series 
of Kiowa models to In; included in the IJureau's exhibit at the Louisiana Purchase 
Exposition. Early in March Mr. Mooney removed to his permanent headtpiarters 
at Mount Scott, in the Kiowa country. Work was continued on the exposition 
exhibit, which was shipped to St. Louis before the close of the month. Al)out the 
middle of June he was instructed to proceed to St. Louis to complete the installation 
of this material; and, after spending a number of days in the study of the aboriginal 
exhibits of the exposition, Ik; returnccl to flu! Kiowa country to continue his 
researches there. 

Dr. J. W. Fewkes, ethnologist, remained in Washington during the first half of 
the year, engaged in the completion of his report on the previous winter's field work 
in Porto Rico and Santo Domingo, and in .January, 1904, he again j)roceeded to the 
West Indies with instructions to make a reconnais.sance of the great chain of islands 
connecting Florida with the eastern shore of Venezuela for the purpose of obtaining 
a general view of the antiquities and remaining tribal remnants. In January Doctor 
Pewkes reached Cuba^ wbeTie he spent six weeks examining local collections, espe- 



REPORT OF THP: SECRETARY. 49 

cially those in Havana and Santiago; he also visited Matanzas, Santa Clara, and Puerto 
Principe, and made excursions fnun the city of Santiago to settlements where a few 
Indians still lived. The small collections of prehistoric objects obtained in eastern 
Cuba were found to resemble those of the neighboring island of Santo Domingo, but 
to differ distinctly from those of the western extremity of the island. From Santiago 
he proceeded by the way of Jamaica to Trinidad, where he remained three weeks 
and gathered a small collection of archeological and ethnological objects and obtained 
data regarding the former inhabitants of the island and the present condition of sur- 
vivors now living in the town of Arinia. Here he obtained some information regard- 
ing the "fire walk," or the "fire pass," of the cooly residents of the island. From 
Trinidad he proceeded along the Lesser Antilles to Porto Rico, remaining, respec- 
tively, one or more days at Barbados, (ircnada, St. Vincent, and St. Thomas, and 
obtaining prehistoric objects at several of these islands. 

March and April were mainly spent by Doctor Fewkes on the southern side of the 
island of Porto Rico, visiting caves and shell heaps and other sites of prehistoric 
occupation. Extensive shell heaps were found at Cayito, near Salinas, and at the 
Coamo baths on the estate of Seflor Usera. Several caves showing evidence of former 
occupation were found near Ponce. He purchased in Ponce the important collection 
of Senor Neumann, containing several stone collars, rare idols, complete pieces of jiot- 
tery, and other objects. The whole collection made by Doctor Fewkes, including 
ethnological and archeological objects, numbers 630 specimens. 

Since his return to Washington in JNIay, Doctor Fewkes has been occupied with 
the jireparation of a final report of his expeditions to the West Indies during the last 
three years. 

Mrs. M. C. Stevenson, ethnologist, was engaged during the first six months of the year 
in completing her monograph of the Zuni Indians and in preparing it for the press. 
In January she set out for New Mexico with the view of contiiuiing her researches 
in certain directions, especially with respect to the relation of the Zuni peoi)Ie to 
other tribes of the general region. Chief attention was given to the mythological 
system and to the ceremonial dances, which followed in ({uick succession during the 
late winter and the early spring months. 

Mrs. Stevenson found the people of Zuni much changed in recent years. The 
former gentleness of character and the marked courtesy of the primitive aborigines 
has entirelj'" disappeared, save with a few of the older men and women, the desire 
of sordid gain engendered by contact with the whites outweighing every other 
motive. 

Mrs. Stevenson was commissioned to collect material illustrative of her researches 
in Zuni, to form part of the Bureau's exhibit at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, 
the special topic being the religious syndwlism embodied in the various arts, such 
as pottery, textiles, basketry, in costumes, altars, images, and other ceremonial objects. 
Her study of this subject, heretofore much neglected, w^as thorough, and the signifi- 
cance of nearly every symbol now used by the Zuni was obtained. She observed 
that, while the officers of the secret fraternities have a thorough understanding of the 
symbolism associated with their altars, few persons know the meanings of the designs 
employed in pottery and the other useful arts, the artists themselves having little 
appreciation of the poetic imagery associated with the various figures. Mrs. Steven- 
son believes that the original significance of the decorative motives of the Zufii 
people will soon be lost l)y them. 

Aside from her systematic researches, a number of special subjects were investi- 
gated by Mrs. Stevenson, including the irrigating system of the Zufii at Ojo Caliente, 
the manufacture and use of the native dyeing materials, the preparation of pig- 
ments, etc. 

Early in August Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, handed in a typewritten copy 
of the Haida texts obtained at Skidegate, Queen Charlotte Islands, during the winter 
SM 1904 4 



50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

of 1900-1901, with acc()iiij)anyinii translations. Subsequently he was engaged in 
copying and translating a secontl set of texts obtained at Masset, Queen Charlotte 
Islands, during the same expedition. 

On December 16 Doctor Swan ton returned to the Northwest to engage in field work, 
particularly among the Tlingit Indians of the Alaskan coast. From January 9 to 
March 21 he was at Sitka among the northern Tlingit, and from then until May 5 
among the southern members of that family. On the way thither he engaged in 
some incidental work among the Haida, and during the season he collected about 
one hundred Tlingit myths, as well as much ethnologic material in other branches. 
One of Doctor Swanton's main objects in this expedition was to define the relations 
between the Haida and Tlingit peoples, looking to the possibility of a genetic rela- 
tionship between them. A final conclusion on this point can not yet be given, but 
it was discovered that many of the resemblances noted between the two languages 
are due to an early residence of the Tlingit opposite the Haida on the coast now occu- 
pied by the Tsirashian. This fact, already partially recognized, and now practically 
demonstrated by Doctor Swanton, results in limiting the origin of much of the culture 
on this coast to the immediate neighborhood of Hecate Strait, northern British 
Columbia. An important contribution to the general subject of clan organization 
was made by the discovery of a small Tlingit group which practiced marriage with 
either of the two great clans. 

Since his return to the office Doctor Swanton has been engaged, first, in revising 
the Tlingit material for the Cyclopedia of Indian Tribes in the light of the fresh 
information gained during his recent trip; and, second, in copying the texts taken 
among the Tlingit. 

Mr. H. H. St. Clair, 2nd, special assistant in Philology, visited northern California 
and southern Oregon early in the year for the purpose of collecting data among the 
Rogue River, Coos, and other small tribal remnants, of which a few individuals sur- 
vive in that region, and a number of valuable vocabularies were secured. 

OFFICE WORK. 

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, has continued the preparation and proof-reading 
of part 1 of his monograph onlroquoian cosmology, which is to appear in the Twenty- 
first Annual Report. The reading of the galleys of the interlinear translation and 
the free translations into English of the Onondaga, the Seneca, and the Mohawk 
versions of this cosmology occupied a large part of his time during the year. Exten- 
sive revision was required on account of the premature transmission of the manuscript 
to the ])rinter in 1902. This caused much delay, but it was considered advisable 
to permit the delay rather than to have the paper ])ublished in a form unsatisfactory 
to the author. 

As custodian of linguistic manuscripts, Mr. Hewitt, assisted by Miss Sniedes, con- 
tinued the work of revising and bringing up to date the card catalogue of the lin- 
guistic and other manuscripts in the archives of the Bureau. This card catalogue 
was originally prepared in 1896-97 by Mr. Hewitt, with the assistance of the late 
Rev. J. Owen Dorsey, and in this work the manuscripts were classified under three 
main heads: First, the author or collector; second, the tribe or band-village; and 
third, linguistic stock — all under one alphabet. The cross-reference catalogue f)f 
the names of tribes and villages noted in the manuscripts is of very great use for 
the purpose of comparison and research and for determining the number and distri- 
bution of these manuscripts among the various stocks. In the i)resent revision 
the work consists in making a dui)licate coi)y of the card descriptive of the manu- 
script, which dui)licate is ])asted on tlie jacket or package containing the manuscript. 
A nundjer is affixed to the original card, to the duplicate, and to the manuscript 
itself for the purpose of ready identification. New cards are being made for manu- 
scripts acquired since the completion of the original catalogue in 1807. This scheme 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51 

has l)een applied to the niannscript.s belonging to the Algonquian, the Athapascan, 
and the Iroiiuoian stocks. The work on these stocks is far advanced. All the cards 
of the original catalogue have been thus copied in duplicate. 

Previous to the death of Maj. J. "W. Powell, the late Director of this Bureau, the 
linguistic material, chiefly Shoshonean, which was collected personally by him in the 
field, was not placed in the archives of the office; but since that time this material 
has been incorporated with that already contained in the archives. A part of this 
material is still uiicatalogued. 

Mr. Hewitt has been called upon to do considerable work on the Iroquoian stock 
for the Dictionary of Indian Tribes, an<l much of the correspondence of the Bureau 
relating to linguistics lias been placed in his hands. 

During the year Dr. Cyrus Thomas, ethnologist, was engaged mainly on the Dic- 
tionary of Indian Tribes, under the direction of Mr. F. W. Hodge. The work con- 
sisted in preparing for final editing some of the families not finished at the com- 
mencement of the year, in reexamining the cards which had been previously passed 
over (to N) for the })urpose of inserting any omitted titles and cross references, and in 
taking general care of the Dictionary cards. During the early part of the year con- 
siderable time Avas devoted by Doctor Thomas to the reading of final proofs of his 
second paper on the Maya calendar systems, which is to appear in the Twenty-first 
Annual Keport. 

Dr. A. S. Gatschet was engaged during the year in his linguistic work, mainly on 
his Algonquian text-s, and some advance has been made in the compilation of his 
dictionary and grammar of the Peoria language. In addition. Doctor Gatschet has 
been called upon for information in his particular field for correspondents of the 
Bureau. 

SPECIAL RESEARCHES AND WORK. 

Under the direction of Dr. Franz Boas, honorary philologist of the Bureau, consid- 
erable progress has been made in the preparation of the Handbook of American Lan- 
guages. Doctor Boas has not been able to devote any great portion of his own time 
to the work during the year, but it has been fully outlined, and a lyimber of collabo- 
rators have begun the preparation of special papers. The introductory chapters of 
the work are assigned to Doctor Boas. 

Mr. F. \V. Hodge, of the Smithsonian Institution, has continued in charge of the 
Cyclopedia of Indian Tribes, and su})stantial i)rogress has been made in its compila- 
tion. Much time has been consumed in revising and verifying the work of former 
years and in bringing the whole up to a uniform standard of excellence. Mr. Hodge 
has been assisted by Dr. Cyrus Thomas, ethnologist; Mr. Frank Huntington, edito- 
rial assistant, and Mrs. Nichols, typewriter, and has received contributions from 
numerous authors, including members of the Bureau and others intrusted with the 
treatment of special topics. The Cyclopedia work has been delayed by the lack of 
sufficient funds for the employment of skilled assistants. 

Dr. Stewart Culin, of the Museum of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences, has 
completed and handed in his monograph on American Indian games, and this great 
work was placed in the hands of the editor of the Bureau at the close of the year. 

The plan of operations for the year included the provision that the Bureau should 
undertake the prejiaration of a measure for the preservation of our national antiqui- 
ties, for submission to Congress. The Institution had previously interested itself in 
this subject, and in order that it might be prepared with a knowledge of what Gov- 
ernments of other countries had done in this direction, it was determined to make a 
study of the entire subject, and Mr. J. D. McGuire was temporarily employed to 
make investigations and fornuilate a measure. This step was taken, and the measure 
was in due course presented in the House and Senate. In prosecuting this work 
translations were made of the laws of various countries, including Mexico, France, 



52 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

German}', Italy, Sweden, Egypt, and Turkey, and others were thoroughly studied. 
Mr. Mi'Gnire also compiled much material relating to governmental sujiport of 
anthropologic science in various countries. Later he took up and made much prog- 
ress in the preparation of an archeological map of the United States, devoting his 
attention chiefly to the middle Atlantic coast section. 

Each year, especially during the winter season when Congress is in session, numer- 
ous delegations of Indians visit Washington. It has been customary to have photo- 
grajjhs made of members of these delegations in the Bureau laboratory, but hereto- 
fore the work has not been systematized. As proposed in the plan of operations, 
careful attention was given to this subject during the year. Mr. Andrew John, an 
Iroquois Indian, resident in the city, was employed to interview and make the 
acquaintance of all delegations on their arrival, with the view of conducting them to 
the laboratories of the Bureau and the National Museum, where arrangements were 
made to have measurements and photographs taken, and plaster masks also made 
of all who were w'iiling to submit to the process. In the absence of proper labora- 
tories in the Bureau for all save the photographic work, the delegations were in the 
main conducted to the laboratories of the National Museum, where every facility was 
afforded. The results of the year's work have been most satisfactory: One hundred 
and ten 8 by 10 negatives were made by Mr. Smillie and his assistants; measurements 
of 32 individuals were taken by Dr. Ales Hrdlicka in the Physical Laboratory; and 
masks of 20 individuals were made by Mr. William Palmer. The following is a list 
of the principal delegations, with the numbers conducted to the laboratories in each 
case: 



Yankton Sioux • 3 

Iowa 5 

Muskogee Creek 5 

Sac and Fox 2 

Nez Perc^ 2 

Osage 4 



Osage 5 

Yakima 3 

Sisseton Sioux 4 

Oglala Sioux 2 

Yankton Sioux II 



COLLECTIONS. 

The collections of ethnological and ai'cheo logical si^ecimens made during the year 
are exceptionally important. A special effort was made to obtain material for the 
purjiose of illustrating the researches of the Bureau at the Louisiana Purchase Exposi- 
tion. Valuable additions along this line were obtained by Doctor Fewkes in the West 
Indies, by Mrs. Stevenson in the Puel)lo country, by Doctor Swanton in Alaska and 
British Columbia, and by Mr. Mooney in Oklahoma and Indian Territory. Seven 
hundred and seventy-eight specimens have been transferred to the National Museum, 
and such of these as were required for the purpose were sent to the exposition. 
Other collections were forwarded directly to the exposition and have not been 
transferred. 

In order that cioUections made by the Bureau may receive immediate attention 
with respect to preservation from moths and other insects, and with the view of 
having them properly and promptly catalogui'd, tliey are, on arrival in Washington, 
placed in the hands of the head curator of anthro])ology of the National Museum, 
who has at hand all necessary facilities for preservation and record. It is understood, 
however, that these collections are at all times to he at the disposal of the Bureau for 
purposes of study and illustration. In all, alwut 1,000 specimens, mostly of excep- 
tional value, have been acquired during the year. 

ILLUSTRATIONS. 

The work of the illustrations division remained in charge of Mr. De Lancey Gill. 
Illustrations for two ainiual reports— the Twenty-third and Twenty-fourth — and for 
Bulletin 28 were edited and prepared for transmittal to the Public Printer; 137 



REPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 53 

drawings for the illustratuin of these volumes were made, and 900 engravings for tlie 
same were examined and neeessary corrections indicated. In the pliotograpliic 
branch of the work, wherein Mr. Gill was assisted, as lieretofore, by Mr. Henry 
Walther, 166 negatives were taken, 132 films exposed in the field were developed, 
and 1,87.3 prints were made. 

Mr. Ciill was also called upon to assist in preparing exhibits for the Louisiana Pur- 
chase Exposition, and made during the year detailed plans recpiired in the construc- 
tion of models of the Temple of the Cross at Palenciue, and the Castillo at Chiche- 
nitza, and also of two models illustrating in actual dimensions the remarkable 
sculptural embellishments characteristic of the ancient Mayan architecture. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

The Twentieth Annual Report and Part I of the Twenty-second have been issued 
during the year, the former in March and the latter in May, 1904. The Twenty-first 
and Part II of the Twenty-second are in i)ress. The Twenty-third was suljmitted 
for pul)lication on February 23, and Bulletin 28 was sent to the Public Printer on 
March 31, 1904. 

Publications are sent to two classes of recipients: First, regularly, without special 
request, to working anthropologists, public libraries, scientific societies, institutions 
of learning, and to other persons or institutions able to contribute to the work of the 
Bureau publications, ethnologic specimens, or desirable data; second, to other per- 
sons or institutions in response to special requests, usually indorsed by members 
of Congress. During the year 1,946 copies of the Twentieth Annual Report have 
been sent to regular recipients, and 2,500 miscellaneous volumes and pamphlets have 
been distributed in response to about an equal numljer of special requests. More 
than 250 of these requests have come through Congressmen, and about 500 volumes 
have been sent in response. One hundred and fifteen copies of Part I of the Twenty- 
second Annual Report have been sent out. 

EDITORIAL WORK. 

Mr. Herbert S. Wood has had charge of the editorial work during the year, being 
assisted in several instances by Dr. Elljert J. Benton, Mr. E. C Farrell (courteously 
detailed for the work by the Government Printing Office), and Mr. William Bar- 
num. The editorial work for the year has consisted chiefly in the reading of proofs 
of the Twenty-first and Twenty-second Annual Reports, and the preparation for 
printing of the Twenty-third Annual Report. 



At the time of the removal of the Bureau of American Ethnology from the United 
States Geological Survey building in 1893, the volumes belonging to the Bureau num- 
bered about 2,500. Through exchange and purchase the growth of the library has 
been, on the whole, satisfactory. The library now contains 12,165 bound volumes, 
about 6,500 pamphlets, and a large number of i)eriodicals. In the purchase of books 
care has been used to add only such works as bear on the subject of anthropology 
with special reference to the American Indians, although volumes relating to kin- 
dred subjects are received through exchange. 

The accessions for the year number 302 bound volumes, about 500 pamphlets, and 
the regular issues of more than 500 periodicals. 

CLERICAL WORK. 

The clerical work of the Bureau has been intrusted largely to Mr. J. B. Clayton, 
who on June 1, 1904, with the approval of the Civil Service Commission, received 
the designation of head clerk. Mr. Clayton has had personal charge of the financial 



54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

work of the Bureau, including the purchase of supplies and the preparation of 
accounts. 

The clerical work during the year included the registration and cataloguing of 
letters, the preparation of replies to letters, and the keeping of miscellaneous records. 
The method described in the report for the previous year as having been adopted 
has been employed during this year, and the clerical work of the Bureau is kept 
up to date. As a rule, letters are answered the same day that they are received, and 
it is only where technical information is called for that there is any delay what- 
ever. The letters in regard to publications, finances, Held work, and miscellaneous 
information cover 2,835 pages in the press-copy letter books. 

Miss E. R. Smedes has given excellent service in connection with the general cor- 
respondence of the Bureau. The clerical work in the Library has been satisfactorily 
attended to by Miss Ella Leary. 

The very considerable work involved in the care and distribution of publications 
has been in charge of Miss May S. Clark, who has efficiently met the Bureau's needs 
in this direction. 

Mrs. F. S. Nichols was certified by the Civil Service Commission for temporary 
work in connection with the Dictionary of Indian Tribes, and Misses Postley, Stratton, 
and Taliaferro were employed for brief periods in the same work. 



The property of the Bureau is comprised in seven classes, as follows: 
Office furniture and appliances. 
Field outfits. 

Ethnological manuscripts and other documents. 
Photographs, drawings, paintings, and engravings. 
A working library. 

Collections held temporarily by collaborators for use in research. 
Undistributed residue of the editions of Bureau publications. 

Eespectfully submitted. 

W. H. Holmes, 
Chief of Bureau. 
Mr. S. P. Langley, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

July 15, 1904. 



Appendix 111. 

REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE 

SERVICE. 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report relating to the operations of 
the International Exchange Service during the year ending June 30, 1904: 

Tlie term "International Exchanges" has been applied by the Smithsonian Insti- 
tution almost since its foundation to the interchange of its publications for those of 
scientific societies and establishments in foreign countries. A liberal distribution of 
the works published at tlie expense of the Smithson fund was one of the principal 
means adopted in the early plans of the Institution for administering that part of 
the bequest of its founder relating to the "diffusion of knowledge among men." 

In order to carry out a systematic exchange of large quantities of books it was nec- 
essary to enlist the cooperation of institutions and individuals in the populous centers 
of the world, and as it became known that such arrangement existed, first one then 
another society and finally the United States Government asked the Smithsonian 
Institution to perform a similar service in exchanging its publications, until the 
expense became a heavy tax on the income of the Institution. 

In 1881 Congress made a small appropriation to the Smithsonian Institution in aid 
of the Exchange Service, and has since continued to make an annual appropriation, 
though at no time has it been suflicient to cover the extire expense of the service, 
consequently the Institution has been obliged to request a partial reimbursement of 
the pro rata expense from Federal and State institutions. 

Nearly 159,000 packages were dispatched during the year ended June 30, 1904, each 
of which was credited to the contributor and debited to the recipient. A recapitula- 
tion was also made, showing the aggregate contributions and receipts by each country. 
This necessary detail, in addition to the routine work of receiving and dispatching 
parcels, requires the continuous service of fifteen employees. The work requires the 
exclusive use of five rooms, which are arranged along the south basement of the Smith- 
sonian building. These rooms, though originally remodeled and arranged expressly 
for the exchange service, have since been enlarged to some extent, but at times, when 
exchanges are received in unusual quantities, it is necessary temporarily to occupy 
adjoining rooms and hallways. 

Aside from packing materials the supplies required are those necessary to a well- 
regulated office and for the greater part are procured under annual (iovernment 
contracts. 

Two instances have been reported during the year of loss or damage to exchange 
parcels in transit. One case, No. 414, for China, was subjected to the process of 
"general average" on account of damage to the steamship St. Bede, but a full report 
has not yet been submitted. 

A case containing United States Government documents (designated as No. 90 of 
the official set), destined for the Parliamentary Library, Hobart, Tasmania, was 
destroyed while en route from London to Hobart, but most of the publications were 
fortunately duplicated. 

The following tables describe the operations of the service during the year, and in 
comparison with the preceding year show a gain of 8,7GG packages, or a total of 
158,983, being an increase of 6,183 in the number sent abroad and an increase of 2,583 
received from other countries. On the other hand, the total weight of exchanges 

55 



56 



KEHORT OF THE SECRETA:RY. 



transmitted was less by 14 per cent. This inconsistency in figures was due to a pre- 
ponderance of unusually large packages forwarded abroad during the year ended 
June 30, 1903, but the greater number of parcels during the last year shows an 
increased interest in the service and has resulted in adding several thousand names 
to the list of correspondents. 

It is gratifying to note that of the weight of exchanges handled during the year 
ended June 30, 1904, 75 per cent was from domestic sources and 25 per cent from 
abroad, while during the previous year the proportions were 73.8 per cent and 26.2 
per cent, respectively. 

In July, 1897, an exchange list of foreign institutions was published which con- 
tained 9,414 addresses. The necessity for a revised list arising, a new edition was 
published in September, 1903, containing 12,720 addresses. This list, printed in 
limited edition at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution, is intended as a work- 
ing guide for the United States International Exchange Service and its distributing 
agencies throughout the world, rather than for general distribution. 

Tabular statement of the work of the International Exchange Sernce during the fiscal year 

1903-1904. 





Number 
of pack- 
ages 
han- 
dled. 


Weight 
of pack- 
ages 
han- 
dled. 


Number of correspondents June 30, 
1904. 


Packages 
sent to 


Cases 


Date. 


For- 
eign so- 
cieties. 


Domestic 
societies. 


Foreign 
individ- 
uals. 


Domestic 
individ- 
uals. 


domestic 

ad- 
dresses. 


shipped 
abroad. 


1903. 
July 


17,725 
10,637 
10,548 
10,216 
15,645 
7,669 

13, 989 
14,969 
12,317 
16, 288 
12, 911 
16,069 


41, 063 
34,618 
26,236 
27, 575 
63,253 
24, 923 

39, 761 
56, 962 
33, 769 
34,413 
48,351 
50,486 




















































































1904. 


































































































Total 


158, 983 
8,766 


481,410 
a 78, 308 


13,257 
136 


3, 464 
145 


24, 901 
3,569 


6,450 
210 


38,702 
4,722 


1,987 


Increase over 1902- 
1903 


a 474 











a Decrease. 



The following table shows the number of packages of exchanges handled and the 
increase in tlie number of correspondents each year from 1897 to 1904: 



Number of packages received. 
Weight of packages received, 

pounds 

Correspondents: 

Foreign societies 

Foreign individuals 

Domestic societies 

Domestic individuals 

Packages to domestic addresses 
Cases shipped abroad 



1897-98. 



84,208 

301, 472 

10, 165 

12, 378 

2, 533 

4,382 

21,067 

1,330 



1898-99. 



97, 835 

317,883 

10,322 
13, 378 
2,596 
4,673 
30,645 
1,500 



1899-1900. 



113, 563 

409, 991 

10, 845 

15, 385 

2, 721- 

5,000 

28, 625 

1,768 



1900-1901. 



121,060 

414,277 

11,295 
16, 261 
2,996 
5, 153 
31,367 
1,757 



1901-1902. 



396, 418 

11, 760 
17, 701 
3, 182 
5, 557 
33, 961 
1,847 



1902-1903. 



150, 217 

559, 718 

13, 121 
21,332 
3,319 
6,240 
33,980 
2,461 



481,410 

13,257 
24,901 
3,464 
6,450 
38, 702 
1,987 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



57 



C:()KRESPONI)KNTH. 

Tlie miiuber of corrospondents lias increased to the extent of 4,060 durinj,' the year, 
and now a<rgregate.s 4S,()7l.'. Of tins number 1(),721 are elassitiecl as institutions and 
31,351 as individuals. In the United States the patrons of tiie service consist of 
3,464 institutions and 6,450 individuals. 

Number of correspondents of the International Exchange Service in each country on June 

SO, 1904. 



Coiiiilry. 



AFRICA. 

Algeria 

Angola 

Azores 

Beira 

British Central .\frica .. 

British East Africa 

Canary Islands 

Cape Colony 

Cape Verde Islands 

Egypt 

Frencii Kongo 

Gambia 

German East Africa 

Gold Coast 

Kongo 

Lagos 

Liberia 

LourciK'O Maninez 

Madagascar 

Madeira 

Mauritius 

Morocco 

Mozambique 

Natal 

Orange River Colony .. 

Reunion 

Rhodesia 

St. Helena 

Senegal 

Sierra Leone 

Transvaal 

Tunis 

Zanzibar 



AMERICA (NORTH). 

Canada 

Central America: 

British Honduras . 

Costa Rica 

Guatemala 

Honduras 

Nicaragua 

Salvador 

Greenland 



Correspondents. 



Libra- 
ries. 



Indi- 
vid- 
uals. 



16 
1 
3 

2 
6 
101 
5 
83 
1 
2 



TotiU. 



64 
1 

22 
1 
4 
2 
8 
159 
5 
122 
1 
2 
3 
6 
5 
6 

13 
2 

14 
7 

23 

10 
1 

45 
4 
6 

14 
5 
6 
5 

60 

16 



912 

19 
66 
111 
52 
71 
33 
2 



Country. 



AMERICA (NORTH)— con. 

Mexico 

Newfoundland 

St. Pierre-Miqucloii 

United States 

W^est Indies: 

Anguilla 

Antigua 

Bahamas 

Barbados 

Bermuda 

Bonaire 

Cuba 

Curasao 

Dominica 

Grenada 

Gaudelope 



Correspondents. 



Libra- 
ries. 



169 

14 

2 

3,464 



Haiti 

Jamaica 

Martinique 

Montserrat 

Nevis 

Porto Rico 

St. Bartholomew. 
St. Christopher. . . 

St. Croix 

St. Eustatius 

St. Lucia 

St. Martin 

St. Thomas 

St. Vincent 

San Domingo 

Tobago 

Trinidad 

Turk's Islands ... 



AMERICA (south). 



Argentina 

Bolivia 

Brazil 

British Guiana. 

Chile 

Colombia 

Dutch Guiana.. 
Ecuador 



160 
22 

150 
19 
88 
34 
5 
21 



Indi- 
vid- 
uals. 



228 

21 

2 

,6,450 

1 
6 
10 

25 

22 

1 

132 

5 

7 

5 

6 

15 

48 

3 

1 
34 



236 

13 
180 

15 
110 

67 
4 

26 



397 

35 

4 

9,914 

1 
14 

14 

35 

28 

1 

199 

8 

9 

8 

8 

53 

69 

3 

1 

42 
2 
9 
5 
2 
6 
2 
8 
3 

16 
2 

29 
9 



396 
35 

330 
34 

198 
91 



58 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Nidiiht'r of (■orrrHpondent)^ of the International Exchange Semnce in each country on June 

30 1904— CorvimwexX. 



Correspondents. 



Country. 



AMERICA (south)— con. 

Falkland Islands 

French Guiana 

Panama 

Paraguay 

Peril 

Uruguay 

Venezuela 



ASIA. 

Arabia 

Beloochistan 

Burma , 

Ceylon 

China 

Cyprus 

Formosa 

French India 

Hongkong 

India 

Indo-China 

Japan 

Korea 

Macao 

Malaysia: 

Borneo 

British New Guinea. 

British North Borneo 

Celebes 

Java 

New Guinea 

Philippine Islands . . 

Sarawak 

Sumatra 

Persia 

Portuguese India 

Siam 

Straits Settlements 



Libra- 
ries. 



AUSTRALASIA. 

New South Wales . . 

New Zealand 

Queensland 

South Australia 

Tasmania 



1 

11 
237 

8 
171 

2 

1 



Indi- 
vid- 
uals. 



6 

2 

14 

9 

72 
37 
49 

7 

1 

9 

19 

117 

4 

3 

1 

30 

250 

7 

448 

13 

1 

1 
1 
1 
4 

33 
1 

22 



172 

137 

71 

77 

31 



Total. 



6 
3 

17 

28 
118 
8S 

87 

7 
1 

20 

45 

165 

7 

3 

2 

41 
487 

15 

«;i9 

15 
2 

1 
1 
2 
4 

55 
1 

44 
1 
3 

10 
1 

27 

35 



257 
228 
117 
121 
54 



Country. 



AUSTRALASIA — COn. 

Victoria 

Western Australia 



Austria-Hungary 

Belgium 

Bulgaria 



EUROPE. 

Denmark 

France 

Germany 

Gibraltar 

Great Britain 

Greece 

Iceland 

Italy 

Luxemburg 

Malta 

Montenegro 

Netherlands 

Norway 

Portugal 

Roumania 

Russia 

Servia 

Spain 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Turkey , 



POLYNESIA. 



Fiji Islands , 

German New Guinea , 

Guam 

Hawaiian Islands 

Marshall Islands 

New Caledonia 

New Hebrides 

Samoa 

Tahiti 

Tonga 

International 



Correspondents. 



Libra- 
ries. 



113 

28 

707 

367 

14 



Total 16,721 



Indi- 
vid- 
uals. 



38 



180 
39 



1,387 

525 

16 



223 

2,875 

4,765 

5 

6,025 

53 

12 

1,147 

6 

15 

1 

372 

216 

87 

64 

1,076 

15 

251 

420 

748 

94 

9 
1 
1 

75 
1 
2 



31,351 48,072 



KKPOKT OK TIIK SECRETARY. 



59 



KXCIIANdE OK (iOVKKNMIONT DOCUM UNTS. 

The followiiifj: table represent.s the exchanjie traiisiiiissioiiH for the several Depart- 
ments and Bureaus of the Governiuent duriiii:; the year, showing a total of 16,235 
packages received from abn)ad, and 74,8();5 packages sent to other countries, being 
an inc;rease over the previous year of 29.5 per cent and 1.2 per cent, respectively. 

Although still so far less than this (iovernment's contributions, the receipts from 
abroad (hiring the year show a substantial increase and it is believed mark the 
beginning of new activity on the part of other governments in reciproc^iting for 
the donations which have been made for so many years through the Smithsonian 
Institution. 

Statement of Government exchtini/eti durhuj Uie year 1903-4- 





Packages. 


Name of Bureau. 


Received 
for— 


Sent 
by- 


American Historical Assoeia- 


7 
11 


16 


Astroph y-sical Observatory . . . 
Auditor for the State and other 




814 


Board on Geographic Names. 
Bureau of American Ethnol- 


4 

287 

73 

63 

119 

95 

3 




1,300 


Bureau of American Repub- 
lics 






863 




1 


Bureau of Fisheries 


504 


Bureau of Foreign Commerce. 
Bureau of Immigration 


1 
1 


Bureau of Insular Affairs 






Bureau of Labor 


54 

3 

5 

7 


30 


Bureau of Medicine and Sur- 






369 


Bureau of Navigation, Navy 




Bureau of Navigation, De- 
partment of Commerce and 


38 


Marine-Hospital Service ... 
Bureau of Statistics, Depart- 
ment of Commerce and 


13 

145 

11 

203 


1,437 
14,477 


Civil Service Commission 

Coast and Geodetic Survey... 
Commissioner of Internal 


6 
466 

2 


Commissioners of the District 


2 
35 
616 

2 
22 


10 


Comptroller of the Currency . 
Departmen t of Commerce and 


l&O 
3,550 


Department of the Interior. . . 


13 



Name of Bureau. 



Department of Justice 

Department of State 

Engineer School of Applica- 
tion 

Entomological Commission . . 

General Land Office 

Geological Survey 

Health Department of the 
District of Columbia 

House of Representatives 

Hydrographic Oflice 

Interstate Commerce Com- 
mission 

Library of Congress 

Life-Saving Service 

Light-House Board 

National Academy of Sciences 

National Bottinic Garden 

National Bureau of Standards 

National Museum 

National Zoological Park 

Nautical Almanac Office 

Naval Observatory 

Navy Department 

Office of the Chief of Engi- 
neers 

Office of Indian Affairs 

Ordnance Office, War Depart- 
ment 

Patent Office 

Presidentof the United States 

Record and Pension Office . . . 

Senate of the United States . . 

Smithsonian Institution 

Superintendent of Documents 

Surgeon-General's Office 

Treasury Department 

War Department 

Weather Bureau 

Total 



Packages. 



Received Sent 
for— by— 



2 

2 

4 

665 



1 
4 

93 

1 

3 

352 

4 

27 

152 

17 

30 
4 

3 

334 

1 



3,509 
100 
165 
12 
50 
166 



16,234 



4,975 



276 
29, 545 

40 
123 

57 



3,810 



98 
521 



1,257 



, 202 

18 

302 



1,414 



74,863 



60 



REPORT Ob' THE SECRETARY. 



REI.ATIVK INTERCHANGE (W PUBLICATIONS BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER 

COUNTRIES. 

Following is a comparative statement of exchange transmissions between the 
United States and other countries (hiring the years 1903 and 1904, respectively. 
Exchanges were conducted with 151 countries during the year ended June 30, 1904, 
or 16 more than during the preceding year. This demonstrates the constant growth 
of the service, extending even to remote parts of the world: 

Comparative, statement of packages received for transmission throuf/h the International 
Exchange Service during the fiscal years ending June 30, 1903, and June 30, 1904. 



Country. 



Algeria .. 
Angola. .. 
Antigua. . 
Arabia . . . 



Argentina 

Austria-Hungary , 
Azores 



Bahamas 

Barbados 

Belgium 

Beloochistan 

Bermudas 

Bi.smarck Arcliiixelago. 
Bolivia 



Bonaire 

Borneo 

Brazil 

Briti.sh America 

British Burma 

British East Africa 

Briti.sh Central Africa. 

British Guiana 

British Hondurus 

British West Africa . . . 

Bulgaria 

Burma 

Canary Islands 

Cape Colony 

Cape Verde Islands . . . 

Celebes 

Ceylon 

Chile 

China 

Colombia 

Costa Rica 

Cuba 

Cura^-ao 

Cyprus 

Denmark 

Dominica 

Dutch Guiana 

Dutch West Indies 

Ecuador 



Packages. 



For — From- 



176 
5 
51 
26 

,535 

,667 
34 
42 
95 

,728 



114 
62 



133 

3 

23 

873 



1 

112 

,520 

546 

733 

,129 

565 

27 

9 

,319 

12 

16 



1,508 
3,719 



2,790 



1,430 
2, 280 



1904. 



Packages. 



340 
596 



165 



131 

3 

67 

■ 39 

2,936 

5,349 

46 

43 

103 

2,848 

1 

52 

1 

127 

1 

13 

2,228 

3,943 



From — 



9 

3 

112 

53 

4 

168 

13 

27 

542 

6 

4 

123 

1,736 

540 

872 

1,265 

1, 012 

22 

5 

1,319 

75 

49 

1 

165 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



61 



Comparative statement, of packages received for Iraiimii.talon through the Tnternntional 
Exchange Service duriitg the fiscal years ending June SO, 190S, and June SO, 1004 — Cot) . 



Country. 



Egypt 

Falkland Islands 

Fiji Islands 

Formosa 

France 



French Cochin China 

French West Africa 

Gambia 

German East Africa 

Germany 

Gibraltar 

Gold Coast , 

Goree Dakar 

Grenada 

Great Britain and Ireland 

Greece 

Greenland 

Guadeloupe 



Guatemala. 
Haiti 



Hawaiian Islands. 

Honduras 

Hongkong 

Iceland 

India 

Italy 

Jamaica 

Japan 



Java 

Kongo Free State . 
Korea 



Lagos 

Leeward Islands 
Liberia 



Lourenfo MHr(inez. 

Luxemburg 

Madagascar 

Madeira 

Malta 



Marshall Islands 

Martinique 

Mauritius 

Mexico 

Montenegro 

Montserrat 

Morocco 

Natal 



Netherlands 

New Caledonia . . . 

Newfoundland 

New South Wales 
New Zealand 



1903. 



Packages. 



For — From — 



286 

12 

3 

6 

10, 670 

7 



8 

17, .581 

20 

7 

22 

13 

18,038 

683 



233 

503 

114 

142 

127 

55 

1,815 

5, 795 

24fi 

2,245 

229 

4 

61 

3 



4 

76 
2, 127 



13 

1.57 

2,479 



45 

2,021 

871 



4,687 



6, 085 



7,106 



n 



4 

326 

1,395 



1904. 



Packages. 



30 
1,100 



363 
6 



For— 



252 
13 
21 



9,764 



2 

8 

17, 621 

16 

3 

16 

8 

17,696 

811 

4 

19 

1 

280 

635 

96 

302 

135 

48 

1,844 

5, 700 

266 

2,463 

248 



4 

63 

19 

88 

24 

22 

50 

6 

9 

75 

2,279 

1 

4 

25 

133 

2,495 

7 

133 

2,109 

975 



6, 928 



S, 38:^ 
4 



182 
1 , 405 



47 
1,619 



375 
4 



62 



KEPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Comparative datemmt of packages received for transmission through the International 
Exchange Service daring the fiscal years ending June 30, 1903, and June 30, 1904— Con. 



Country. 



Nicaragua 

Norway 

Orange River Colony 
Panama 



Paraguay 

Persia 

Peru 

Philippine Islands 

Porto Rico 

Portugal 

Queensland 

Reunion 

Rhodesia 

Roumania 

Russia 

St. Bartholomew 

St. Croix 

St. Eustatius 

St. Helena 

St. Kitts 

St. Martin 

St. Pierre and Miquelon 

St. Thomas 

St. Vincent 

Samoa 

Sainos 

San Salvador 

Santa Lucia 

Santo Domingo 

Servia 

Siam 

Sierra Leone 

Society Islaixls 

South Australia 

Spain 

Straits Settlements 

Sumatra 

Sweden 

Switzerland 

Syria 

Tasmania 

Tonga 

Tonquin 

Transvaal 

Trinidad 

Tunis 

Turkey 

Turks Islands 

United States 

Uruguay 

Venezuela 

Victoria 

Western Australia 

Windward Lslands 

Zanzibar , 



1903. 



Packages. 



138 

1, 459 

6 



59 

752 
56 
21 

947 

900 
16 
36 

261 
4,606 



From— 



1904. 



Packages. 



29 

9 

12 

2 

14 

4 

17 

6 

134 

19 

33 

71 

84 

13 

12 

1,143 

1,525 

109 

2 

2, 205 

2, 757 

48 

569 

11 

1 

568 

109 

65 

957 

27 

33, 980 

866 

664 

1,786 

619 



59 
849 



For- 



374 
829 



107, 661 

80 

1 

1,145 

112 



239 

1,495 

11 

24 

178 

51 

992 

86 

18 

1,058 

979 

14 

20 

335 

4,699 

6 

11 

4 

22 

21 

16 

17 

14 

5 

25 

2 

152 

13 

3 

78 

195 

18 

20 

2,376 

1,655 

202 

5 

2,123 

2,762 

115 

790 

1 



From — 



703 

83 

38 

825 

25 

38, 702 

1,304 

846 

1,920 

813 

3 

21 



iiKr(>RT OF THE 8Ecrj:taiiy. r>3 

In the main tliosaim- arranfienieiits for ili.strihutinfj; cxclianges in other conn tries 
have cDntiniied (hirin<; the year as have existed in tiie j)ast. Bnt one change re()Mires 
special notice. 1 refer to the deatli at I.eip7,i;i-(tohHn, on February 6, 1904, of Dr. 
Carl Felix Alfred Fliif^el, in his eighty-fourth year. 

Doctor Fli'igel succeeded his father in 1855 as agent of the Smithsonian Institution 
for the kingdoms and principalities which now constitute the German Empire, and 
continued in that capacity until his death, a continuous service of forty-nine years. 

His long term of office gave Doctor Fliigel an exceptional opportunity to further 
the work of the International Exchange Service throughout central Europe, of which 
he never failed to take advantage. 

Doctor Fliigel i)nhlished numerous pamphlets and critical essays on the English 
language, and was the author of the standard work extensively known as Fliigel's 
Dictionary of the English and German languages, which reached its fifteenth edition 
in 1891. The Institution deeply regrets his loss. 

Mr. W. Irving Adams, chief clerk of the International Exchange Service, was in 
Leipzig on official business at the time of the death of Doctor Fliigel and took imme- 
diate steps to recommend the selection of his successor in order that the work of the 
agency should suffer as little inconvenience as possible. The long and faithful 
service, the scholarly attainments, and wide acquaintance of Doctor Fliigel made the 
selection of a suitable person a not inconsiderable task; but after careful inquiry INIr. 
Adams selected Mr. Karl W. Hiersemann, the bookseller of Leipzig, as Doctor 
Fliigel's successor, and on March 8, 1904, the Secretary approved the selection by 
tendering Mr. Hiersemann the appointment. The central location of Mr. Hierse- 
mann's establishment and his efficient clerical stjiff have already shown the selection 
to have been a fortunate one. 

The progress of diplomatic negotiations between the United States and China with 
a view of estaV)lishing mutual exchange relations have frequently been referred to in 
the annual reports of the Exchange Service, and I am now pleased to announce that 
the matter has ])een referred by the Chinese department of foreign affairs to tlie 
superintendent of trade for the south (Nanking viceroy), with authority to deal with 
it. It would therefore seem that official exchange relatif)ns with China more nearly 
approach consummation than ever before. Meanwhile only occasional publications 
are received from China l)y mail, and no i)rovision exists for sending exchanges from 
the United States to China except to addresses in Shanghai. 

The indirect method of forwarding parcels to the West Indies through the Crown 
ngents for the colonies in London has been abolished, and the services of colonial 
officers and educational institutions in several of the islands have been enlisted 
instead. In the near future it is hoped that similar arrangements will l)e perfected 
with other IJritish colonies. 

The department of foreign affairs, Bangkok, Siam, has accepted the invitation of 
tiie Institution to enter into a mutual arrangement for an exchange of pul)lications, 
both governmental and scientific. 

Following is a list of correspondents abroad through which the distribution of 
exchanges is accomplished. Those in the larger and in many of the smaller coun- 
tries forward to the Smithsonian Institution reciprocal contributions for distribution 
in the United States. 

Algeria (via France). 
Angola (via Portugal). 
Argentina: Museo Nacional, Buenos Ayres. 
Austria: K. K. Statisti.sche Central-Commission, Vienna. 
Azores (via Portugal) . 

Belgium: Service Beige des Echanges Internationaux, Brussels. 
Bolivia: Oficina Nacional de Inmigracion, Estadistica y Propaganda Geognifica, La 
Paz. 



64 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Brazil: Servigo de Pormuta^oes Internacioiiaes, BiV)liotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro. 

British Colonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London. « 

Bulgaria: Dr. Paul Leverkiihn, Sofia. 

Canada: Sent by mail. 

Canary Islands (via Spain). 

Cape Colony: Superintendent of the Government Stationery Office, Cape Town. 

Chile: Universidad de Chile, Santiago. 

China: Shipments temporarily suspended. 

Colombia: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogotti. 

Costa Rica: Oficina de Deposito y Canje de Publicaciones, San Jose. 

Denmark: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen. 

Dutch Guiana: Surinaamsche KoJoniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo. 

Ecuador: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito. 

East India: India Store Department, India Office, London. 

Egypt: Soci^t6 Khediviale de Geographic, Cairo. 

France: Bureau Fran^ais des Echanges Internationaux, Paris. 

Friendly Islands: Sent by mail. 

Germany: Karl W. Hiersemann, Konigsstrasse 3, Leipzig. 

Great Britain and Ireland: Messrs. William Wesley & Son, 28 Essex street, Strand, 

London. 
Greece: Director of the American School of Classical Studies, Athens. 
Greenland (via Denmark). 
Guadeloupe (via France). 

Guatemala: Instituto Nacional de Guatemala, (hiatemala. 
Guinea (via Portugal). 

Haiti: Secretaire d'Etat des Relations Exterieures, Port au Prince. 
Honduras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa. 
Hungary: Dr. Joseph von Kijrosy, "Redoute," Budapest. 
Iceland (via Denmark). 
Italy: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, 

Rome. 
Jamaica: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston. 
Java (via Netherlands). 

Liberia: Care of American Colonization Society, Washington, D. C. 
Luxemburg (via Germany). 
Madagascar (via France). 
Madeira (via Portugal). 
Mexico: Sent by mail. 
Mozambique (via Portugal). 
Natal: Agent-General for Natal, London. 
Netherlands: Bureau Scientifique Central N6erlandais, Bibliothcque de'l'Universite, 

Leyden. 
New Guinea (via Netherlands). 
New Hebrides: Sent by mail. 
Newfoundland: Sent by mail. 

New South Wale.s: Board for International Exchanges, Sydney. 
New Zealand: Colonial Museum, Wellington. 
Nicaragua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua. 
Norway: Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet Bibliotheket, Christiania. 
Paraguay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Asuncion. 
Persia (via Russia). 



a This method is employed for communicating with a large number of the British 
colonies witli which no means is available for forwarding exchanges direct. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65 

rem: Oficina de Reparto, Dep6sit() y Caiije Iiitcriiacional dc I'ublifaciones, Ministerio 

de Fomento, Lima. 
Portugal: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon. 
Queensland: Exchange Board, Parliament House, Brisbane. 
Roumania (via Germany). 
Russia: Commission Russe des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothgque Imp^riale 

Publique, 8t. Petersl)urg. 
►Salvador: Musco Nacional, San Salvador. 
Santo Domingo: Sent by mail. 
Servia (via Germany). 

Siani: Minister for Foreign Affairs, Bangkok. 
South Australia: Astronomical Observatory, Adelaide. 
Spain: Deposito de Libros, Cambio Internacional y Biblioteca Genesal del Ministerio 

de Instruccion Publica y Bellas Artes, Madrid. 
Sumatra (via Netherlands). 

Syria: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian C^hurch, New York. 
Sweden: Kongliga Svenska Yetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm. 
Switzerland: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque F6d6rale Centrale, 

Berne. 
Tasmania: Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobart. 
Tunis (via France). 

Turkey: American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Boston. 
Uruguay: Oficina de Deposito, Reparto y Canje Internacional, Montevideo. 
Yenezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas. 

Yictoria: Public Library, ]\Iuseums, and National Gallery, Melbourne. 
Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth. 
Zanzibar: Sent by mail. 

Save in a few instances, in which the mails were employed, parcels sent to foreign 
countries during the year were packed in boxes and were forwarded by express or 
freight. Of the 1,987 boxes of publications thus sent, 300 contained complete series 
of official documents of the United States for designated depositories, and 1,687 boxes 
contained U^nited States departmental reports and scientific exchanges for miscella- 
neous addresses. The number of boxes of miscellaneous exchanges sent to each 
country is given below: 



Argentina 35 

Austria 67 

Barbadoes 1 

Belgium 51 

Bermuda 1 

Bolivia 4 

Brazil 26 

British colonies 22 

British Guiana 3 

British Honduras 1 

Cape Colony 20 

China 3 

Chile 21 

Colombia 6 

Costa Rica 8 

Cuba {^) 



Denmark 21 

Dutch Guiana ( 6 ) 

East Indies 21 

Egypt 3 

France and colonies 191 

Germany 277 

Great Britain and Ireland 341 

Greece 6 

Guatemala 5 

Honduras 5 

Hungary 26 

Italy ... 78 

Jamaica 3 

Japan 38 

Liberia 2 

Mexico (c) 



'^ Packages sent by mail. '' Included in transmissions to Netherlands. 

SM 1904 5 



66 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Natal (« ) 

New South AVales 27 

Netherlands 37 

New Providence 1 

New Zealand 10 

Nicaragua 5 

Norway 22 

Paraguay 6 

Peru 11 

Polynesia ( '') 

Portugal 12 

Queensland 12 

Rouuiania ( ') 

Russia 78 

Salvador 4 



Servia ( 

Sian) 2 

South Australia 11 

Spain 18 

Sweden 42 

Switzerland 43 

Syria 1 

Tasmania 6 

Transvaal («) 

Trinidad 2 

Turkey 2 

Uruguay 10 

Venezuela 5 

Victoria 19 

Western Australia 15 

During the year six consignments of United States Government official pul)lications 
were made to each of the fifty depositories for which i)rovision was made under the 
joint resolution of Congress approved March 2, 1867. The transmissions were made 
to each depository on July 20 and Novemljer 20, 1903, and on January 11, February 
17, April 15, and June 6, 1904. A list of these depositories follows: 
Argentina: Library of the Foreign Office, Buenos Ayres. 
Argentina: Biblioteca Publica Provincial, La Plata. 
Australia: Commonwealth of Australia, Melbourne. 
Austria: K. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Vienna. 
Baden: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. 
Bavaria: Konigliche Hof- und Staats-Bibliothek, Munich. 
Belgium: Bibliotheque Royale, Brussels. 
Brazil: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro. 
Canada: Parliamentary Library, Ottawa. 
Chile: Biblioteca del Congreso, Santiago. 
Colombia: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota. 

Costa Rica: Oficina de Deposito y Canje de Publicaciones, San Jose. 
Cuba: Department of State, Habana. 
Denmark: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen. 
England: British Museum, London. 

England: School of Economics and Political Sciences, London. 
France: Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris. 
Germany: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin. 
Greece: National Library, Athens. 

Haiti: Secretaire d'Etat des Relations Exterieures, Port au Prince. 
Hungary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest. 
India: Secretary to the Government of India, Cal(;utta. 
Ireland: National Library of Ireland, Dublin. 
Italy: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome. 
Japan: Foreign Office, Tokyo. 

Mexico: Instituto Bibliognilico, Museo Nacional, Mexico. 
Netherlands: Library of the States General, The Hague. 
New South Wales: Board for International Exclianges, Sydney. 
New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington. 
Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Christiania. 

« Included in transmissions to Great Britain. 
b Packages sent by mail. 
• c Included in transmissions to Germany. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67 

Ontario: Legislati\o Library, Toronto. 

Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima. 

Portugal: Bibiiotheca Nadonal, LisVwn. 

Prussia: Krmijilit'lu' Hililiolhi-k, Berlin. 

(ini'b(.'c: Lejiislative Lil>rary, Quebec. 

Quet-nsland: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane. 

Russia: Imperial rublic Lil)rary, St. Petersburg;. 

Saxony: Konigliclie Hibliothek, Dresden. 

South Australia: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide. 

Spain: Seceion de Propiedad Intelectual del Ministerio de Fomento, Madrid. 

Sweden: Konglifj:a Jiiblioteket, Stockholm. 

Switzerland: Bibliotheque Fed(5rale, Berne. 

Tasmania: Parliamentary Library, Hobart. 

Transvaal: (Tovernment Library, Pretoria. 

Turkey: Minister of Public Instruction, Constantinople. 

Uruguay: Oticina de Deposito, Reparto y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, 

Montevideo. 
Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas. 

Victoria: Public Library, Melbourne. ' 

Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth. 
Wiirttemberg: Konigliche Bibliothek, Stuttgart. 

The fifty sets of United States official publications referred to were delivered to the 
Smithsonian Institution from time to time as they came from press, and when a 
sufficient number was received to completely fill the boxes prepared for them, a list 
was printed to accompany each set, which was then shipped to its respective 
destination. 

In addition to the above, either full or partial sets were provided under the joint 
resolution of Congress approved March 2, 1901, for the purpose of increasing 
exchanges with countries for which no provision was made under the limited resolu- 
tion of March 2, 1867. The new depositories which had been designated to the close 
of the fiscal year 1903-4 were as follows: 

Austria-Hungary: Biirgermeister der Haupt- und Residenz-Stadt, Vienna. 
British Columbia: Legislative Assembly, Victoria. 
Bulgaria: ]\linister of Foreign Affairs, Sophia. 

Cape Colony: Superintendent of the Government Stationery Office, Cape Town. 
France: Prefecture de la Seine, Paris. 
Germany: Grossherzogliche Hof-Bibliothek, Darmstadt. 
Germany: Senatskommission fiir die Reichs- und auswartigen Angelegenheiten, 

Hamburg. 
Germany: Foreign Office, Bremen. 
Guatemala: Secretary of the Government, (Guatemala. 
Honduras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa. 
Jamaica: Colonial Secretary, Kingston. 
Manitoba: Provincial Library, Winnipeg. 
Newfoundland: Colonial Secretary, St. Johns. 
New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton. 
Natal: Colonial Governor, Pietermaritzburg. 
Nova Scotia: Legislative Library, Halifax. 
Northwest Territories: Goverinnent Library, Regina. 
Prince Edward Island: Legislative Library, Georgetown. 
Paraguay: Oficina General de Informaciones y Canjes y Commisaria General de 

Inmigracion, Asuncion. 
Roumania: Academia Romana, Bukharest. 
Straits Settlements: Colonial Secretary, Singapore. 
Siam: Foreign Office, Bangkok. 



68 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

As new countries are constantly being added, the sets for the depositories desig- 
nated under the last resolution are not forwarded simultaneously with those originally 
provided, but are delivered to the Institution from the Library of Congress and are 
dispatched with the next succeeding consignments of miscellaneous exchanges. 

Messrs. William Wesley & Son and Dr. Joseph von Korosy continue to represent 
the Institution in Great Britain and Hungary, respectively, but, as above mentioned, 
a new agent, in the person of Mr. Karl W. Hiersemann, has been appointed to suc- 
ceed the late Doctor Fliigel in Germany. To these gentlemen, who are compensated 
by the Institution for their services, to the many individuals and institutions who 
render valuable aid in the promotion of the exchange service at large, and to Mr. 
Charles A. King, deputy collector of the port of New York, the grateful acknowledg- 
ments of the Smithsonian Institution are due. 

Mr. W. Irving Adams, chief clerk of the International Exchange Service, returned 
on May 30, 1904, from a journey to Europe, undertaken for the purpose of promoting 
the interest of the service. It gives me pleasure to say that his observations will 
result in enlarging the scope of the Exchange Service and in inaugurating many 
improvements. 

Permit me to commend the efficient manner in which the work of the Exchanges 
has been conducted by the office force under the immediate supervision of Mr. Adams, 
and, in his absence, under Mr. F. V. Berry. The increased work of the service, 
brought about by its growing usefulness, has sometimes been almost overwhelming, 
nevertheless there has been no undue delay in the transmission and distribution of 
the many thousands of packages handled and recorded during the year. 

Respectfully submitted. 

F. W. Hodge, 
Acting Curator of Exchanges. 

Mr. S. P. Langley, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

July 1, 1904. 



Appendix IV. 



REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL 

PARK. 

Sir: I have the honor to lierewith submit the following report relating to the con- 
dition and operations of the National Zoological Park for the year ending June 30, 
1904. 

At the close of that period the approximate value of the property belonging to the 
park was as follows: 

Buildings for animals $100, 000 

Buildings for administrative purposes 14, 000 

Othce furniture, books, apparatus, etc - - 4, 200 

Machinery, tools, and implements 2, 200 

Fences and outdoor inclosures -^"^i ^0^ 

Roadways, bridges, paths, rustic seats, etc 80, 000 

Nurseries 1' ^^^ 

Horses ^^^ 

Animals in zoological collection 42, 000 

A detailed list of the animals in the collection is appended hereto. They may be 
classified as follows: 



Mammals . . 

Birds 

Reptiles 

Total. 



Indige- 
nous. 



318 
290 
113 



Foreign. 



154 

127 

12 



Domesti- 
cated. 



Total. 



541 

445 
125' 



1,111 



The accessions of animals during the year have been as follows: 

Presented "^ 

Purchased and collected 251 

Lent - - 19 

Received from Yellowstone National Park 4 

Received in exchange " 

Born in National Zoological Park 97 



Total 



470 



The cost for purchase, collection, and transportation of these accessions has been 
$4,500. 

The api)ropriation for the general service of the park was made in the following 
terms: 

"For continuing the construction of roads, walks, bridges, water supply, sewerage 
and drainage; and for grading, planting, and otherwise improving the grounds; 
erecting and repairing l)uildings and inclosures; care, subsistence, purchase, and 
transportation of animals, including salaries or compensation of all necessary employ- 
. ees, the purchase of necessary books and periodicals, the printing and publishing of 
operations, not exceeding one thousand live hundred copies, and general incidental 
expenses not otherwise provided for, ninety-five thousand dollars." 

69 



70 REPOET OF THE SECRETARY. 

For some years past the want of sufficient acconunodations for the animals at the 
park has been severely felt. This need seemed during the past season so urgent that 
all other objects not imperatively necessary for the maintenance of the collection 
were deferred, and the available resources were applied to the erection of a new 
house for mammals. 

After consultation with Mr. F. L. Olmsted a site for the structure was selected 
near the principal animal house, in the situation shown in the accompanying plat 
(PI. I). It was decided to build it of stone, using the same gray gneiss, found in the 
region of Rock Creek, that was used in building the principal house. A plan of the 
main floor of the structure is shown herewith (PI. II). Its dimensions are as follows: 



Outside. 




Length of rectangle 

Width of rectangle 

Extreme length 

Extreme width 

On reference to the accompanying plan it will be seen that the cages for the ani- 
mals are arranged so as to be accessible from both front and rear. Small movable 
passageways will connect these inner cages with those to be constructed about the 
exterior of the building, stretching in each case across the service passage in the 
rear. The building will be lighted almost wholly by skylights, situated over the 
cages, so that the animals are in full light while the public is in comparative 
obscurity. 

A contract was made for the walls of this building February 5, 1904. These walls 
were completed June 15, 1904, at a cost of $6,573. Other contracts have been made 
as follows: 

For the structural ironwork $7, 662 

For the tile roof 4, 495 

It is hoped that the iron work will be completed by October 31 , 1904, and the 
tiling about a month later. 

It is estimated that the total cost of the building will be about |40,000. 

Fitttng up old elephant house.— To supply temporarily the accommodations so 
badly needed for small mammals, the barn formerly occupied by the elephant was 
repaired and fitted up for this class of animals. It furnishes 23 cages. This cost $500. 

New boiler in antelope home.— The heating boiler in the antelope house was one 
which had previously served for some years in the Smithsonian Institution building. 
At the close of the winter of 1902-3 it was found to be so badly corroded that it could 
no longer be used. A new vertical boiler was put in at a cost of |250. 

New inclosure for hnfaloes.— The buffalo paddocks on the steep northeastern slope 
of the narrow valley of Rock Creek were not sanitary. As a herd from Messrs. Cody 
and Bailey was accepted on deposit, it was necessary to construct a new inclosure on 
the hill near the Connecticut Avenue entrance. This was fenced with the posts and 
woven-wire fencing from the old paddocks, the cost of the paddock and shelter being 
$500. 

Neiv raccoon <r<'e.— The large tulip poplar, whicli had been o<!Cupied by the raccoons 
for a number of years, finally died. It was not in good condition when the park was 
established, and a heavy fill of earth had been made over its roots. To replace this 
a large oak was moved during the winter, and a new fence was built. Thiscost$500. 

Repair and alteration of Adaim Mill road.— The portion of Adams Mill road from the 
foot of the hill to the log bridge was in bad shape from irregular settling. During 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. 



Plate I. 




Location of Animal Quarters in the National Zoological Park. 
New iiiauiiiiul house indicaleii in solid blauk. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7l 

the sumnijer of 1908 the crown was reformed and a new surface dressing of crushed 
limestone was put on at a cost of $450. (This section of road is still in ahnost i)erfect 
londition, a good example of the ease with which a comparatively level road can he 
kept in repair as against one on a steep grade. ) 

This road was also widened at the entrance and reshaped t<j conform to the lu-w 
lines of the highway approach outside. Cost, $250. 

liepairing hxj hriiUjc— It was found that the floods in the creek had cut into and 
undermined the north al)utment of this hridge, and additional concrete was put in 
and faced with stone slahs. The trend of the current against the ahutment was pre- 
vented for the future hy removing a gravel bank and l)urying a few logs in the edge 
of the stream to turn the water toward the center and prevent scouring. Cost, $250. 
Water mpi)Uj from the main on Connecticut avenue extended. — The water supply for 
the entire park had been furnished by a 6-inch main, laid at the expense of the park, 
down Ciuarry road from Columbia road. The supply in the higher parts of the i)ark, 
on the west side, was not satisfactory, and it was impossible to maintain sufficient 
pressure when water was being used in the lower levels. A new pipe to supply the 
western part of the park was laid from the main on Connecticut avenue extended, 
at a cost of $250. 

Bookcases for o/?foe.— Reference books and bookcases for the superintendent's 
office were purchased during the year at a cost of $200. 

Noteworthy accessions.— A young male lion, presented to the President by King 
Menelik, of Abyssinia, was deposited in the park by the President. A spotted hyena, 
presented by N. E. Skinner, special envoy to King Menelik. Twelve American bison 
were loaned by Messrs. Bailey and Cody. One phalanger and 2 Ijridled wallabies 
were received from Dr. F. W. Goding, United States consul at Newcastle, New South 
Wales. Four coyotes were presented by Major Pitcher, acting superintendent, Yel- 
lowstone National Park. Nine wandering tree ducks were presented by Carl Hagen- 
beck. One Himalayan bear was received from the New York Zoological Park in 
exchange. 

Purchases.— A Kodiak bear. (This species is the largest carnivorous land animal 
now in existence; one killed at English Bay, Kodiak Island, weighed 1,756 pounds.) 
In this connection it is of interest to note that the male of Ursus dalli gyas, now in 
the park, which weighed in June, 1903, 450 pounds, had attained a weight, January 
18, 1904, of 625 pounds. A Mexican mountain sheep. A pair of yearling moose 
obtained in Manitoba. A pair of jaguars. A male Bactrian camel, i)rocured as a 
mate for the female already in the collection. A California condor. A female black 
bear, from the Province of Quebec; an unusually line specimen, weighing 880 pounds. 
Births.— ^\g\\t wild turkeys hatched in the park. Brown pelican, sandhill crane, 
and Canada goose also nested, and the emu laid two eggs. 

Important losses. — Two American bison, gastro-enteritis. One pair moose. One 
American antelope. Mule deer— 8 from disease, 2 from fright by buffalo, 1 female 
killed by a male. Two jaguars— intense catarrhal inflammation throughout intestinal 
tract; virulent colon germs found, pathogenic to rabbits and guinea pigs. One puma. 
Black bear— pneumonia, 2; gastro-enteritis from Ascari.^ transfuga, 2. One grizzly 
bear, gastro-enteritis with nephritis; in the collection since June, 1888. One sun 
bear, from gastro-enteritis. One Japanese bear, shock from cutting claws. Four 
Arctic foxes, no intestinal worms found; they were found in subsequent cases. Two 
European flannngoes, Tropidocercu (a nematode worm found in subsequent cases) 
producing fatal inflammation of the digestive tract. One cassowary from serous 
pericarditis. 

A considerable number of monkeys, birds (parrots, etc.), and snakes died from 
• results of overcrowding or lack of proper quarters. 

The post-mortem examinati<ms were made by tlie Bureau of Animal Industry, to 
whose courtesy the thanks of the park are due. 



72 REPORT OF THK SECRETARY. 

Kxclutixjc v'ith Ncir '/talatid (/orenmicnt. — Tlie New Zoaland povcrniiicnt arran<j;i'(l, 
throiif^li till' Presiilt'iil, to ()l)tain I'lk fmiii tlin lit'id in the Natii)iial Zoolofrical I'ark 
in excliaiijic for otlicr aiiimalH. Trii t'lk are to lu' sent, and will l)e forwanU'd in the 
autumn of 1J)04, after the horna are hard and \hv young have been weaned. 

Readjmtmtnl of boundaries. — The desirability of having the park bordered by high- 
way.s along the eastern and western sides has bi-en urged at various times and brought 
to the attention of Congress. A bill for the establishment of liighvvays adjacent to 
till! park was submitti'd by the Conmiissioners of the District of Columbia during the 
session of 190:5-4, and jjassed as given below: 

"AN ACT For llic nin'iiiiiK <>f coiiiioctiiiK li it'll ways on tlii- east and west sides of llic /ooloRical park. 

District of Columbia. 

" Z^r (7 nidctcd by Ike Senate, and House of Representatives of the United States of America 
in CoiK/resK (isseinltbd, That within six moiitlis after the passage of this art the Com- 
missioners of the District, of Columbia be, and they aie hereby, anthori/ed and 
direct<'(l to institute in the supreme courtof the J)istrict of Columbia, sitting as a 
district court, by petition, jtarticidarly describing the lands to be taken, a i)r(H'eeding 
in rem to condeuui the laud that may be necessary for coimecting the north end of 
.\dams Mill road in Lanier Heights with south end of I'ark roa(l in Jngiesidebya 
highway fifty feet wide along or near the eastern boundary of the zoological i>ark, 
also for connecting Cathedral avenue with Klingle road by a Ingliway fifty feet wide 
along or near the western boundary of the zoological pai'k, all in accordance with 
plans on lile in thcolliceof tlic I'Ji^iucer Conunissioner, District of ( 'ohnubia." rublic 
act, April 28, ItlOI. 

The estimates foi' the jiarU for tiic yi'ar l(U)l-r), as submitted to Congress, contained 
the following item: 

"Readjustment of boundaries. National Zoological Park: Acquirement of the 
tract of land lying between the present eastern boundary of the National Zoological 
I'ark and the new highway to be established by the District of Columbia from 
Adams Mill road to Kenesavv avenue, and also of thi> tract lying betwei'u the i)resent 
western boundary of said ])ark and the new highway to be established by the Dis- 
trict of(;ohnnbia from (^athedral avenue to Klingle road, sixty thousand dollars; 
and said land, when acijuired, to Ijecomea part of the National Zoological Dark." 

Congress took no action upon this estimate. 

I'hiiibit at Ijiiiisianii I'lirchase J'^.tposilion. — In view of the itniM)rtance of bringing 
before the general j)ublic the aims and objects of the park it was thought jiroper to 
l)ri'pare an I'xhibit of some extent for the Louisiana I'nrt'hase Exposition. This 
consisted of a display of living birds confined in a flying cage occupying aground 
space of 84 by 228 feet, and from 50 to 55 feet in Jieight. It was constructed by the 
St. Paul Foundry Company, according to i)lans ])repared by the Supervising Architect 
of the Treasury Department after preliminary sketches furnished by the jiark. The 
cost of the cage was about $15,000. Its frame consists of light steel arches, covered 
by a wire netting with thri>e-fourths-inch mesh. A longitudinal i)artilion divides 
the cage into two jiarts, and a passage for the indilic 14 feet wiile exteiuls from end 
to end. 

One side is occnjiied maiidy by marsh and water birds and has two swimming j)ools, 
each from 50 to (10 feet long. The other side is occupied mainly by song birds and 
small species noted lor liright iiluuKiirc, and has two smaller pools with a streamlet 
(»f water tri»'kling from one to tlu' other, a distance of 90 feet, through a series of 
small, shallow basins that affoid drinking and bathing jilact's for the little birds. 
This side includes several moderati'-si/.ed growing tri-es which were left in their 
natural situation. Besides these, many small trees and shrubs were i)lanted and the 
surface was sodded. The cage was locati'd in a natural grove of trees not far from 
the (iovernment building in the exposition grounds. All ground improvements, 
including ^\ater sui>))ly, etc., wei'c furnished by the exposition company at its own 
expen.se. 

The cost of stiH'king and uiaintainiug the cage was defrayed from the Ciovernment 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. 



Plate IV. 




Great Brown Bear from Peninsula of Alaska, in National 
Zoological Park. Age About 2' Years. 







Leopard in National Zoological Park. 
Presented by Mr. E. S. Cunningham, United States eoiisul, Aden, Arabia. 



RPJPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



73 



exhibit fund. Birds were purchased from dealers and collectors, but, as it was 
desirable to have as many as possible already accustomed to such confinement, a 
considerable number were supi)lied from the stock in the National Zoological I'ark. 
A head keeper and one underkeeper were eniployed during the month of May and 
another underkeeper during June. 

It is expected that at the close of the exposition the cage will be brought to Wash- 
ington and ultimately erected in the National Zoological Park. 

Animals in National Zoological Park June SO, 1904. 



MAMMALS. 

Xmth American species. 

American bison {Bison americanus) . . . 
Mexican mountain sheep [Ovis mexi- 

cana) 

Prong-horn an t elope ( Antilocap ra a mer- 

icana) 

Virginia deer {Odocoileus vir(/inianus) 
Columbia black-tailed deer (OdocoiVews 

columbianus) 

Mule deer {Odocoileus hemionus) 

American elk ( Cervus canadensis) 

Ne wfoundland caribou (J?anf;i/ertoTa?- 

novse) 

Moo.'<e {Alces america7ius) 

Collared peccary { Tayassu angulatum) 

Cougar ( Felis concolor) 

Oregon cougar {Felis concolor ovegon- 

ensis) 

Ocelot (Felis pardalis) 

Cacomitl cat ( Felis cacomitli) 

Bay lynx {Lynx rufus) 

Spotted lynx {Lynx rufus maculatus) . 
Florida lynx {Lynx rufus floridanus) . 

Canada lynx ( Ly7ix ca^iadensis) 

Gray wolf ( Canis griseus) 

Black wolf ( Canis griseus) 

Coyote ( Cams latrans) 

Coyote ( Canigfrustror) 

Red fox ( Vulpesfulvus) 

Cross fox ( Vulpesfulvus) 

Arctic fox ( Vulpes lagopus) 

Swift fo.x ( Vulpes velox) 

Gray fox ( Urocyon cinereoargenteus) . . 
North American otter {Lutra Hudson- 

ica) 

Fisher ( Mustela pennanlii) 

American badger ( Taxidea taxus) 

Kinkajou ( Totos caudivolvulus) 

American civet cat {Bassariscus astu- 

tus) 

Raccoon {Procyon lotor) 

Black bear ( Ursus americanus) 

Grizzly bear ( Ursus horribitis) 

Yakutat bear ( Ursus dalli) 



Number. 



Name. 



MAMMALS — continued. 
North American species — Continued. 

Alaska Peninsula brown bear ( Ursus 
dalli gyas) 

Kodiak bear ( Ursus middendorffi ) 

Polar bear ( Thalassarctos niariiimus) . . . 

California sea lion {Zalophus califor- 
nianus) 

Steller's sea lion {Eumetopias slelleri) . . 

Harbor seal {Phoca vitulina) 

Common pocket gopher {Geomys bur- 
sarius) 

California pocket gopher {Thomomys 
boltx) 

American beaver {Castor canadensis).. 

Hutia-conga {Capromys pilar ides) 

Woodchuck {Arctomys monax) 

Southern fox squirrel {Sciurus niger) . . 

Western fo.x squirrel {Sciurus ludovici- 
anus) 

Gray squirrel {Sciurus carolinensis) 

Black squirrel {Sciurus carolinensis) . . . 

Mountain chipmunk ( Tamias speciosus) 

Beechey's ground squiTTe\{Spermophi- 
lus grammurus beecheyi) 

Antelope chipmunk {Spermophilusleu- 
curus) 

Mexican ground squirrel {Spermophilus 
mexicanus) 

Northern varying hare {Lepus ameri- 
canus) 

Opossum {Didelphys marsupialis) 

Domesticated and foreign species. 

Diana monkey {Cercopithecus diana) . . . 
Greenmoukcy {Cercopitfiecuscallitichus) 
Sooty mangabey ( Cercocebusfuliginosus) 

Bonnet monkey {Macacus sinicus) 

Macaque monkey { Macacus cynomolgus) 
Pig-tailed monkey {Macacus nemesiri- 

nus) 

Japanese monkey { Macacus speeiosus) . 

Black ape ( Cynopithecus niger) 

Arabian baboon {Papio hamadryas) ... 
Yellow baboon {Papio babuin) 



Number. 



74 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 
Animals in National Zoological Park June 30, 1904 — Continued. 



Name. 



MAMMALS — continued. 

Domesticated andforeign species — Con, 

Doguera baboon {Papio doguera) -. 

Ruffed lemur ( Lemur varius) 

Lion ( Felis leo) 

Tiger {Feiis tigris) 

Leopard ( Feiis pardalis) 

Serval ( Felis serial) 

Yaguarundi {Felis yaguarundi) 

Caracal ( Lynx caracal) 

Spotted hyena {Ilyxna crocuia) 

Striped hyena {Hysena striata) 

Wolf hound 

St. Bernard dog 

Pointer 

Bedlington terrier 

Smooth-coated fox terrier 

Wire-haired fox terrier 

Dingo ( Canis dingo) 

Black-backed jackal ( Canis mesonielas) 
Palm civet {Paradoxurus fasciatus) . . . 

Mongoo.se (Herpestes mungo) 

Tayra { Galictis barbara) 

Red coatimundi {Nasua ru/a) 

Crab-eating raccoon (Procyon canvri- 

vara) 

Himalayan bear ( Ursus tibetaniis) 

Sloth bear {Melursns ursinus) 

Wild boar {Siis scrofa) 

Sol id-hoofed pig { Sus scroj'a ) 

Zebu {Bos indicus) 

Carabao ( Bos bubalus) 

Yak {PoL'phagus grunniens) 

Barbary .sheep ( Ovis tragelapliiis) 

Common goat ( Capra hircus) , 

Angora goat ( Capra Jiircus) 

Nilgai ( Boselaphus tragocamelus) 

Indian antelope {Antilope cervicapra) . . 

Sambur deer ( Cervus aristotelis) 

Axis deer ( Cervus axis) 

Red deer ( Cervus elaphus) 

Mexican deer {Odocoileus mexicanus) . . 

Venezuelan deer ( Cariacus sp.) 

Fallow deer {Dama vulgaris) 

Common camel ( Camehis dromedarius) . 
Bactrian camel ( Camelus baclrianus) . . . 

Llama {Auchenia glama) ..' 

South American tapir ( Tapirus ameri- 

canus) 

Donkey {Equus asinus) 

Indian elephant {Elephas indicus) 

Ecuador squirrel {Sciurus sp.) 

Mexican agouti {Dasyproctamexicana) . 
Hairy-rumped agouti {Dasyprocta 

prymnolopha) 

Azara's agouti {Dasyprocta azarx) 



Number. 



Name. 



Number. 



MAMMALS — continued. 

Domesticated and foreign species — Con. 

Acouchy {Dasyprocta acouchy) 

Golden agouti {Dasyprocta aguli) 

Guinea pig ( Cavia porcellus) 

Albino rat {Mus rattus) 

Coypu {Myocastor coyptis) 

Crested porcupine {Uystrix cristata).. 

Domestic rabbit {Lepus cuniculus) 

Great gray kangaroo {Macropus gigan- 

teus) 

Wallaroo {Macropus robustus) 

Red kangaroo {Macropus rufus) 

Blaek-.striped wallaby {Macropus dor- 

salis) 

Pademelon wallaby (i/ocropMA't/jeh'dis) 

Grey's wallaby {Macropus greyi) 

Brush-tailed rock kangaroo {Petrogale 

peniciUata) 

Bridled wallaby {Onychogal frenata) . 
Rat-kangaroo {^Eprymnus rufescens) . . . 
Flying phalanger {Petaurus sciureus) . . 
Common phalanger ( Tricliosurus vul- 

pecula) 

Bandicoot {Perameles sp.) 

Tasmanian wolf ( Tliylacynus cynoceph- 

alus) 

Tasmanian devil {Sarcophilus ursinus) . 
Australian native cat {Dasyurus sp.).. 
Manicou ( rHdelphys sp.) 



Mockingbird {Mimus polyglottus) 

Strawberry linch {.^poi-a-ginthus flari- 

diventris) 

Painted grass-finch {Po'ephilamirabilis) 

Bar-breasted finch {Munia nisoria) 

Java sparrow {Padda oryzivora) 

Parson finch 

Green jay {Xanthoura luxuosa) 

Toucan ( Ramphastos tocard) 

Giant kingfisher {Dacelo gigas) 

Sulphur-crested cockatoo ( Cacatua 

galerita) 

Leadbeater's cockatoo ( Cacatua Icad- 

beateri) 

Bare-eyed cockatoo {Cacatua gym- 

nopis) 

Roseate cockatoo ( Cacatua roseicapiUa) . 
Yellow and blue macaw (^Ira ararau- 

nea) 

Red and yellow and blue macaw {Ara 

mncao) 

Red and blue macaw {Ara chloroptera) . 

Great green macaw {Ara militaris) 

Chattering lory ( Lorius garrulus) 



REPORT OK THK SKCKKTAUY. 75 

AniiiKilx III Xitlinnal Znalixilriil I'lirk June 30, i£yO^— Continued. 



Name. 



BIRDS— continued. 

Green paroq net ( Conuriis sp.) 

Carolina paroiiuet {Conurus carolineii- 
s'") 



Number. 



Yellow-napeil lunazon (Amuzonu auro- 

patliata) 

White-fronted aniazon {Amazona leu- 

coccphala) 

Orange-winged amazon {Amazona 

amazonica) 

Yellow-shouldered amazon {Amazona 

ochroptera) 

Rose-hill parrakeet {Platyccrcus cri- 

mius) 

Grass parrakeet {Melopsittacun undiila- 

tus) 

King parrakeet (Aprosmiclus cyanopy- 



Coekateel {Calapsitlaciis novse-hol- 

landix) 

Great horned owl {Bubo rir(/inia7mK) .. 
Barred owl {Syriiitim nehulosum) . . . 

Barn owl {Strix pratincola ) 

Venezuelan owl 

Screech owl ( Megascopg asio ) 

Sparrow hawk {Faleo sparverius) 

Bald eagle {Halixetus leucoce.phalun) . . . 

Harpy eagle ( Thramctus harpy ia) 

Golden eagle ( Aquila chrysactos) 

Wedge-tailed eagle ( Uroaetus audax) . . 
Crowned hawk-eagle (Spizactus coro- 

iiatus) 

Red-tailed hawk {Buteo borealis) 

Venezuelan hawk 

California condor (Gymnogyps cali/or- 

nianus) 

Turkey vulture ( Cathartes aura) 

Black vulture ( Catharista alrata) 

King vulture { Gypagus papa) 

Lanzarotte pigeon ( Columba livia) 

King dove ( Columba palumbus) 

Bar-shouldered dove {Geopelia hume- 

ralis) 

Bronze-winged pigeon {Pliaps chalcop- 

tera) 

Crested pigeon {OcyphapslophoUs) — 
Wild turkey {Meleagris gallopavo Jerus) . 
Chachalaca ( Ortalis vetula maccallii) . . . 
Oaubenton's curassow {Crax dauben- 

toni) 

Lesser razor-billed curassow (Mitua lo- 

mentosa) 

Peafowl {Pavo a-istatus) 

Sharp-tailed grouse (Pediocxles phasi- 

aneUus) 

l'TaiTiehen{Tympnnuchusamericanus) 



BIRDS— continued. 
California partridge {Callipepla cali- 

fornica) 

American coot {FiUica aviericana) 

Purple galliuule {Porphyrio cxruleus) 
Black-backed gal linule {Porphyrio me- 

lanotus) 

Demoiselle crane {Anthropoidcs virgo) 

Sandhill crane ( Griis viexicana) 

Whooping crane {Grus americana) 

Thicknee ( Qidicnemus grallurius) 

Little blue heron {Ardea aerulea) 

Great blue heron {Ardea herodias) 

Louisiana heron {Ardea tricolor rufl- 

collin) 

Black-crowned night heron {Xycti- 

corax nycticorax nxvius) 

Australian bittern 

Boatbill ( Cochlearius cochlearius) 

White stork ( Ciconia alba) 

Black stork ( Ciconia nigra) 

Marabou stork {Leptoptilus crumenije- 

ru») 

Wood ibis ( Tantalus locidator) 

Glossy ibis {Plegadis autumnalis) 

Sacred Ibis (Ibis scthiopica) 

White ibis ( Guara alba) 

Trumpeter swan ( Olor buccinator) 

Whistling swan {Olor columbianus) — 

Mute swan ( Cygnus gibbus) 

Black swan ( Cygnus atratus) 

Wandering tree-duck ( Vendrocygna ar- 

cuata) 

Australian tree-duck {Dciidrocygna 

eyloni) 

American tree-duck {Dendrocygna dis- 
color) 

Brant {Branta bernicla) 

Canada goose {Branta canadensis) 

Hutchins's goose {Branta canadensis 

hulchinsii) 

Chinese goose (Anser cygnoides) 

Greater snow goose {Chen hyperborea 

7iivalis) 

Muscovy duck ( Cairina moschata ) 

Wood duck (.4 ix sponsa) 

Mandarin duck {Dcndronessa galericu- 

lata) 

Pintail {Dafila acuta ) 

"Blue-winged teal {Anas discors) 

Green-winged teal {Anas carolinensis) . 

Black duck {Anas obscura) 

Pekin duck (Anas sp.) 

Common duck {.Inas tmschas) 

Australian wild duck {Anas super- 
ciliosa) 



12 
2 
1 

2 
3 
2 
1 

2 



76 REPOKT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Animals in National Zoological Park June 30, 1904 — Continued. 



Name. 



Bi RDs — continued . 

American flamingo {Phoenicopterus 
ruber) 

American wliite pelican {Pelecanus 
erythrorhynchos) 

European white pelican {Pelecanus 
onocrotalus) 

Brown pelican {Pelecanus fuscus) 

Herring gull {Larus argentatus) 

American herring gull {Larus argen- 
tatus smithsonianus) 

Florida cormorant {Phalacrocorax 
dilophus floridanus) 

Snake bird {Anhinga anhinga) 

Common rhea {Rhea americana) 

Cassowary ( Casuarias australis) 

Emu {Dromxus novx-hollandix) 

REPTILES. 

Alligator {Alligator mississippiensis) ... 
Rough-eyed caiman ( Caiman scleropis) . 
American crocodile {Crocodilus ameri- 

canus) 

Painted turtle ( Chryscmys picta) 

Musk turtle {Aromochelys odorata) 

Mud turtle {Cinosternum pennsylvani- 

cum) 

Terrapin {Pseudemys sp.) 

Gopher turtle {Xerobaies polyphemus) . . 

Box tortoise ( Cistudo Carolina) 

Three-toed box tortoise {Cistudo triun- 

guis) 

Painted box tortoise {Cistudo urnata). . 



Number. 



Name. 



REPTILES — continued. 
Duncan Island tortoise ( Testudo ephip- 

pium 

Albemarle Island tortoise ( Testudo vi- 

cina) 

Iguana {Iguana tuberculata) 

Comb lizard ( Ctenosaura sp.) 

Chuckawalla {Sauromalus ater) 

Horned lizard {Phrynosoma cornutum). 
Great Basin horned lizard {Anotapla- 

tyrhina) 

Australian hooded lizard 

Gila monster {Heloderma suspectuni) . . . 
Diamond rattlesnake {Crotalus ada- 

manteus) 

Banded rattlesnake {Crotalus horridus) 
Prairie rattlesnake {Crotalus conflu- 

entis) 

California rattlesnake(CrotaZMsiM«/er). 
Copperhead {Ancistrodon contortrix) . . . 
Watermoccasin (^jimirodonpiseii'onts) 

Indian python {Python molurus) 

Cuban tree boa {Epicrates angulifer) . . . 

Common boa ( Boa constrictor) 

Anaconda {Eunectes murinus) 

Bull snake {Pityophis sayi sayi) 

Pine snake {Pityophis melanoleucus) . . . 
Black snake {Bascanium constrictor) . . . 

King snake {Ophibolus getulus) 

Milk snake {Osceola doliata triangula) . 

Garter snake {Eutsenia sirtalis) 

Water snake {Natrix sipedon) 

Gopher snake(Spi7o<es corais couperii) . . 



Number. 



Animals presented during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1904- 



Name. 


Donor. 


Number. 




Miss Justine Ingersoll, New Haven, Conn 




Do 


Crew of U. S. S. Mayflower 






Miss Justine IngcrsoU, New Haven, Conn 




White-throated capuchin . . . 


Mrs. Albert Clifford Barney, Washington, D. C 














Ocelot 


E. H. Plumacher, United States consul, Maracaibo, Venezuela. 
The President 








Spotted hyena 


R. P. Skinner, .special envoy to King Menelik of Abyssinia... 




Red fox 






A. B. Claxton, Washington, D. C 




Do 


Harrv A. Pond, Fayette, Iowa 




Raccoon 


J. W. Linton, Richmond, Va 




Do 








Mrs. Thomas Bushby Takoma Park, Md 






E. H. Plumacher, United States consul, Maracaibo, Venezuela. 








Woodehuck 


Joseph Sanders, Washington, D. C 





REPORT OF THE SECRP:TARY. 



77 



Animals presented during the fiscal year ending June SO, 1904 — Continued. 



Name. 



Canada porcupine 

Angora guinea pig — 

English rabbit 

Manicou 

Albino opossum 

Mockingbird 

American magpie 

White-fronted amazon 

Grass parrakeet 

Parrakeet 

Do 

Great horned owl 

Do 

Do 

Short-eared owl 

Barred owl 

Do 

Barn owl 

Golden eagle 

Red-tailed hawk 

Venezuelan hawk 

Daubenton's curassow . 

American bittern 

Wandering tree duck . . 

Snake bird 

Alligator ' 

Do 

Rough-eyed caiman — 

Chucka walla 

Horned lizard 

Glass snake 

Banded rattlesnake 

Prairie rattlesnake 

Massasauga 

Copperhead , 

Bull snake , 

Black snake , 

Do 

Do 

Milk snake 

Garter snake 

Hog-nosed snake 

"Congo snake" 



Donor. 



Jas. Holdcroft, Mayfleld, Mich 

Chas. W. Stewart, Washington, D. C 

J. S. Donaldson, Washington, D. C 

Miss Mary B. Thayer, Monadnock, N. H 

J. W. Oliver, Newport, Ark 

Mrs. C. E. Ferguson, Washington, D. C 

Jas. Fullerton, Red Lodge, Mont 

Capt. C. F. Shoemaker, Washington, D. C 

Dr. E. F. Smith, Washington, D. C 

Mrs. W. M. Black, Washington, D. C 

Horace Wylie, Washington, D. C 

H. W. Cheek, Washington, D. C 

J. P. McKallow, Chevy Chase, Md 

Wm. Beuchert, Washington, D. C 

C. E. Mallory, Buffalo Center, Iowa 

Sergeant Carroll, Washington, D. C 

Donor unknown 

Geo. R. Moberly, Frederick, Md 

The President 

E. Whitney, Washington, D. C 

E. H. Plumacher, United States consul, Maracaibo, Venezuela 
do 



Number. 



C. E. Mallory, Buffalo Center, Iowa 

Carl Hagenbeck, Hamburg, Germany 

A. M. Nicholson, Orlando, Fla 

D. Diggons, Washington, D. C 

J. Rochon, Washington, D. C 

E.H. Plumacher, United States consul, Maracaibo, Venezuela 

Otto Holstein, Mellen, Ariz , 

R. H. Fattand Maj. D. B. Johnson, Washington, D. C 

Miss Ethel Roosevelt 

J. B. Dahlgren, Hancock, Md 

Jas. Fullerton, Red Lodge, Mont 

Prof. Hubert Lyman Clark, Olivet, Mich 

J. B. Dahlgren, Hancock, Md 

James Fullerton, Red Lodge, Mont 

E. T. Carrieo, Stithton, Ky 

Dr. L. Stejneger, Washington, D. C 

Prof. Hubert Lyman Clark, Olivet, Mich 

J. Y. Detwiler, New Smyrna, Fla 

E. T. Carrieo, Stithton, Ky 

....do 

Wm. P. Seal, Delair, N. J 



SUMMARY. 



Number. 



Animals on hand July 1, 1903. 
Accessions during the year. . . 

Total 



Deduct loss (by exchange, death, and returning of animals) . 
On hand June 30, 1904 



1,000 


470 


1,470 


359 



1,111 



Respectfully submitted. 

Mr. S. P. Langley, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



Frank B.\ker, Superintendent. 



Appendix V. 

REPORT OF THE WORK OF THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY FOR 
THE YEAR ENDING JUNE m, 1904. 

iSik: The kinds and amounts of Observatory property are approximately as follows: 

Buildings |6, 300 

Apparatus 41 , 400 

Library and records *^ ^^ 

Total 54,500 

During the past year the acquisitions of property have been as follows: 

(a) Apparatus. — Astronomical and physical apparatus has been purchased at an 
expenditure of $4,500. The most important pieces comprise a new spectrobolometric 
outfit, to be used in the study of the great solar image of the 140-foot focus horizon- 
tal telescope, and also for a proposed expedition to some elevated station for the 
determination of the solar constant. Of the sum expended for apparatus, $2,430 was 
chargeable to the appropriations of 1901-2 and 1902-3. Shelters for the great hori- 
zontal telescope and ajiparatus for the research on the solar constant have been 
ordered, at an estimated expenditure of $1,230. A ground plan of the Observatory 
enclosure, including the new shelters, is shown in Plate V. 

(b) Library and records. — The usual periodicals have been continued, and a few 
books of reference purchased. Three new cases have been procured for stoi-age of 
books and periodicals. The total expenditure for these purposes is $340. 

The Observatory buildings have been repainted at a cost of $195. No losses of 
property worthy of note have occurred during the year. 

THE WORK OF THE OBSERVATORY. 

For convenience the work may be classified as follows: 

1. Publications and miscellaneous matters. 

2. Improvements of apparatus. 

3. Investigations. 

1. Publications and miscellaneous matters. 

Eclipse report. — The report of the solar eclipse expedition to Wadesboro, N. C, of 
May, 1900, referred to in my last year's report, has been distributed, and has been 
favorably noticed both in this country and abroad. 

St. Louis Exposition. — A far more elaborate exhibition of the Observatory work 
than usual has been prepared and installed for the St. Louis Exposition under your 
instructions. The great coelostat, mentioned in my last year's report, is arranged to 
throw a beam of sunlight into a darkened j)ortion of the room occupied by the 
Observatory exhibit, where a solar image about a yard in diameter is thrown up by 
a 6-inch telescope, and the solar spectrum is formed upon the walls of the room by a 
large concave grating. 

78 



REPORT OF THK SECRETARY. 



79 



A (liyphiy of tmnspiiri'iicics ^.liowiiiji apiKinilus, l.tiil(liiit,'s, mid rcsullH i)f obscrvii- 
tion is a prominent objei-t to visitors as they enter \\\v. room, and thenco they pass 
throufih the darkened ehaniber above mentioned and get a view of the sohir spec- 
trnm and of sneh snn spots as are visible. As they leave the darkened chand)er they 
come npon a j^ronp oi bolometrie ai)paratus in a(;tnal oi>eration and sensitive enoii';!! 
to fiive 100 or more scale divisions deflection when the visitor holds liis lian<l in 
front of the l)olometer. Charts and reports illustrative f)f the work of tln^ Observa- 
tory are foiuid upon tlie walls. A larjie nund)er of cojiies of a i)ainplilet ilescriptive 
of the Observatory and its studies have been freely distril)uted. 

2. fmproirnients of apparaiuit. 

Bolometer.— The bolometer and its adjuncts had reached so high a state of perfec- 
tion, as described in my last year's report, that further improvement could hardly be 
expected, but in order to make it practicable to set up so sensitive an instrument at 
the St. Louis Exposition and leave it without expert attention for months, it was felt 
desirable to cond)ine in compact form the most approved methods of construction, 
having special reference to simplicity of manipulation, so that the instrument could 
be safely left in unskilled hands. Accordingly the bolometrie apparatus, shown in 
Plate VI, was designed at the Observatory and constructed in the Observatory shop. 
As in the form shown in Plate XII A of Volume I of the Annals of the Astro- 
physical Observatory, all the adjuncts to the bolometer, excepting the battery and 
galvanometer, are combined in a single case, adjusted mechanically from outside, but 
in this new form the adjusting slide wires are straight, instead of spiral, and no 
clamping mechanism is retpiired, so that the construction is much simplified and can 
hardly get out of order. At the same time five slide wires are provided of differing 
sensitiveness of adjustment, so that by merely turning cranks on the outside of tlie 
case any adjustment from ^_U to j^j^Tyioff^C) in the relative resistances of the balancing 
arms of the bolometrie circuit can be easily effected. It is a principal advantage of 
this arrangement that all the electrical circuit is in such compact quarters that 
changes of temperature affect all parts almost alike. These have been the great causes 
of disturbance of the defiec;tions of the needle in the past, and the great obstacle to 
an automatic registry. Their l)ad effects are so nearly eliminated now that apart 
from the occasional need of a uniformity in the temjierature of the prism, the 
elaborate arrangements for keeping a uniform temi)erature in the observing room are 
no longer needed. No difiiculty from drift or any disorder has ever been experienced 
with this adjunct to the bolometrie apparatus, and it is so nmch superior to any 
earlier form that a duplicate piece has since been constructed for use in a research 
on the radiation of the stars. Both were made at the Observatory shop and worked 
perfectly from the very first trial, and they reflect great credit on Mr. Kramer, the 
instrument maker. 

Pyrheliomi'ter.—lleierem-o was made in last year's report to the new form of absolute 
pyriieliometer then being developed, consisting of a hollow chamber or "alwolutely 
black body" in which the radiation is absorbed and from which the heat is continu- 
ously removed by a liquid circulating about the walls of the chamber. This instru- 
ment has been tried so successfully in an experimental form that steps are now being 
taken to provide one f(jr continuous automatic registration of the rate of solar radia- 
tion. Its principal advantage as an absolute instrument depends on the fact that it 
may be demonstrated that its indications are correct, for if a known quantity of heat 
is supplied electrically to a coil within the chamber, this heat will reach the walls by 
convection and radiation, and being then removed by the flowing liquid its amount 
may be measured and compared with the known heating actually produced in the 
coil. But it is obvious tliat the heat of solar rays, absorbed almost wliolly upon the 
• wall of the chand)er as they fall upon it, is much more likely to be aci-urately meas- 
ured than the heat of the coil, which must first be chiefly communicated to the air 



80 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

and thence to the wall of the chamber by convection. Accordingly, if the measured 
heating from the coil agrees closely with the known heating api-iied to the coil, 
much more closely will the measured heating from the solar rays represent the actual 
rate of solar radiation. 

Repeated trials have showed that the new form of pyrheliometer is capable of 
accurate measurement of the heating of the coil, so that confidence is felt in its meas- 
ures of the more advantageously applied solar radiation. Preliminary comparisons 
with the new instrument seem to indicate that the mercury pyrheliometer hereto- 
fore used as a standard at this Observatory reads somewhat too high. 

Horizontal telescope.— Tests have been made to determine how completely the defects 
of bad seeing are removed by churning the air column in the great horizontal tele- 
scope, according to the i)lan initiated by you and mentioned in my last year's report. 
It has been found that though the cliurning is of great advantage, and generally indis- 
pensable to any work whatever on the solar image, yet the definition of an artificial 
star, whose beam travels twice through the whole tube, is far from perfect even with 
churning. Much of the disturbed seeing is found to be caused by the heating of the 
poorly protected tube in the sun, and a ventilated canvas tent has been ordered to 
screen the tube thoroughly. Plans are also formed for making additional tests on 
other methods of churning the air in the tube. Recalling the more perfect results 
secured in experiments on a smaller scale in 1902, and the evident improvement of 
definition obtained in the present large tube with the churning device now installed, 
no doubt is felt that bad seeing within the tube itself may at length be wholly 
removed. 

A second serious defect in definition was found to be caused by warping of the 
large plane mirrors of the coelostat, one of which is inclined forward and was at first 
supported by a ring in front, while the other mirror, made originally for much less 
severe work, was too thin to keep flat with an ordinary system of support. Both 
mirrors have been almost entirely cured of these defects by the introduction of the 
Ritchey supporting system composed of numerous balanced plates.« For the mirror 
which is inclined forward, Mr. Ritchey's original design had to be somewhat modi- 
fied because the mirror must be stuck to the plates instead of resting on them by its 
weight as in mirrors supported face up. We have heretofore employed here ground 
brass plates to which the mirror is stuck with rubber cement, but it would probably 
be better to make the plates slightly concave and connect them by flexible tubes to 
a large reservoir from which the air is partially exhausted, so that the mirror would 
be held to the plates by suction. But even as we have used it, the Ritchey system 
has wonderfully improved the definition secured on the solar image. All the work 
on these support systems was done in the Observatory shop. 

A third serious defect in the definition of the horizontal telescope is due to the 
tremor of the mirrors continually kept up by the city traflic, notwithstanding the 
costly and massive piers on which the apparatus rests. Very great imi)rovement in 
steadiness has come from placing li-inch rubber blocks under the coelostat and 
under the concave mirrors. 

Before the improvements noted, the solar focal image, 40 cm. in diameter, was an 
ill-defined circle at a focal distance varying often 10 feet during a single day, and with 
the sides at different focal distances from the top and bottom. Now the image is 
pretty sharply defined, comes to focus on all sides in the same plane, and stays within 
less than a foot of the same focus all day; while its wanderings rarely reach much 
over a millimeter in amplitude. It is now possible to observe the absorption in the 
solar envelope with accuracy at within 1 or 2 per cent of the radius from the sun's 
limb. But further improvements of the horizontal telescope are in progress, notably 
the provision of well-protected shelters over the coelostat, the concave mirror, and 

«Astrophysical Journal, v, 143, 1897. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 81 

the spectro-bolometrir apparatus, in i)la('e of tlie canvas shelters thus far used, and 
with these, the improved churning device i)roposed, and the tent to shelter the tube 
already ordered, it is conlidently expected to have the horizontal telescope in very 
satisfactory condition during the coining liscal year. 

3. Investigations. 

Sun's posslbJe variahilitii. —Notahle progress has been made witli the researches you 
have initiated on the amount of solar radiation and its absorption in the solar envel- 
ope and in our atmosphere. Within the last seventeen months three independent 
kinds of evidence have been collected here, pointing toward the conclusion that the 
radiation supplied by the sun may perhai)s fluctuate within intervals of a few months 
through ranges of nearly or quite 10 per cent, and that these fluctuations of solar 
radiation may cause changes of temperature of several degrees centigrade nearly 
simultaneously over the great continental areas of the world. Further evidence 
must, however, be awaited to verify this important conclusion. 

The tliree kinds of evidence referred to are as follows: First, on all favorable days 
the "solar constant" of radiation outside our atmosphere has been determined here, 
and changes of about 10 per cent in the values obtained have been found which can 
not be attributed to known causes. Second, the solar image formed by the horizon- 
tal telescope has been examined with the spectro-bolometer to determine the absorp- 
tion of radiation within the solar envelope itself. If we grant for argument's sake 
that the rate of solar radiation outside our atmosphere fluctuates rapidly from time 
to time, then as you have observed, the cause of this fluctuation can not reasonably 
be a variability of the temperature of so immense a body as the sun itself, but nmst 
rather be in a change in the absorption of a more or less opaque envelope surrounding 
the sun. Accordingly the two researches I have mentioned are intimately associated, 
for if we find a considerable increase in the rate of solar radiation outside our atmos- 
phere we ought to find a corresponding decrease in the absorbing power of the solar 
envelope. 

Such is in fact one of the most notable results of the year's work. In August, 
September, and October, 1903, the observations of the " solar constant" of radiation 
indicated that the rate of radiation was about 10 per cent below that observed in 
February, 1904. On the other hand measurements of the absorption of the solar 
envelope indicated considerably less absorption in February, 1904, than in Septem- 
ber, 1903. 

The third kind of evidence of change in solar radiation is based on a study of the 
temperature of the North Temperate Zone, as indicated by the Internationaler Deka- 
denberichte published by the Kaiserliche ]\Iarine Deutsche Seewarte, and received 
at the Observatory through the kindness of the Librarian of the United States 
Weather Bureau. This publication gives the mean temperature at 8 a. m. for each 
ten days at each one of about one hundred stations distributed over the principal 
land areas of the North Temperate Zone, and for about ninety of these stations there 
is also given the normal temperatures for the same ten-day periods, representing the 
mean of many years. From these data there have been computed here the temper- 
ature departures from the normal since January 1, 1903, and these are compared 
graphically in the accompanying chart, Plate Yll/' with the measures of the solar 
constant made in 1903. It will be seen that shortly after the observed fall of solar 
radiation in March, 1903, a general fall of temperature occurred, which would be a 
natural result of such a change. It has been shown here, in accordance with the 
known laws of radiation, that 10 per cent fall in the solar radiation could not pro- 
duce more than 7°. 5 C. fall in terrestrial temperatures, and that several causes, notably 

«Shown also in your article on "A Possible Variation of the Solar Radiation," 
Astrophysical Journal, June, 1904. 
SM 1904 6 



82 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

the presence of the oceans, would prevent so great a change of temperature as this 
resulting from a temporary diminution of solar radiation of only a few months' dura- 
tion. The observed fall of about 2°. 5 C. in the mean temperature of the land areas 
of the North Temperature Zone during April, 1903, seems to be therefore in good 
accord with the observations of solar radiation. 

(Jwing to the uncommon cloudiness of the tirst six months of 1904 few measures of 
the "solar constant" worthy to be compared Avith the series of 1903 have been 
obtained, but taking the best of the measures it appears that high values of solar 
radiation in February, 1904, and lower ones in the subsequent months are indicated, 
as shown in Table 2, given below. This appears to be in general accord with the 
mean temperatures observed over the North Temperate Zone, except that it seems 
probable that the solar radiation was high in January as well as February, but the 
lack of good observing weather prevented our recognition of it. 

Forecasts of temperature. — If subsequent research shall confirm these indications 
of a general parallelism between measures of solar radiation and terrestrial temper- 
atures, we are now entering upon a new field of climate forecasting. But if such fore- 
casts had to depend on measures of the solar radiation outside our atmosphere the 
observing station should be removed from Washington to a more favorable situation, 
for the experience of the last two years has shown that hardly a score of days in a 
year are uniformly clear enough to allow even relatively good "solar constant" 
values to be obtained; and these good days are very unevenly distributed. Fortu- 
nately, the distinct work which you have planned on the absorption of the solar 
envelope, already mentioned, seems to promise a far easier method of forecasting, 
which requires much less of constancy in the atmospheric conditions. Owing to the 
preliminary nature of the installation of the great horizontal telescope as thus far 
used, and to the fact that the great coelostat has been sent to the exposition at St. 
Louis, only the single instance above mentioned of a comparison of the radiation 
outside our atmosphere with solar absorption has yet been made; but if future work 
shall confirm the general agreement between the indications afforded by the study 
of the absorption of the solar envelope and those afforded by the measures of total 
solar radiation, the significance of the result will be very great, for the bolometric 
investigation of the solar image can be made at any time when the sun shines clear 
for five minutes, by a method practically independent of the disturbances of our 
own atmosphere, whereas the measures of total radiation require three hours of 
unvarying transparency of the air. Accordingly the former measurements may be 
made almost daily, and will, it is hoped, prove of great service in temperature 
forecasts. 

The effects of changes of the transparency of our own atmosphere are, perhaps, of 
equal importance in temperature forecasts, and the recognition of these of course 
depends on such spectro-l)olometric measures as are involved in determinations of 
the "solar constant." Referring to my last year's report, it will be remembered 
that the earlier months of 1903 were found distinguished by more than the average 
absorption of light in our atmosphere. In September, 1903, there was a marked 
increase in transparency, so that in the latter months of the year the clearness was 
almost as great as that of 1901-2. Of course as these studies are made only at Wash- 
ington no general conclusions as to the transparency of the air at other stations can 
safely be drawn. But if the clearing above mentioned was general it might perhaps 
explain the ui)ward tenden(;y during the last months of 1903 of the curve of average 
temperatures shown in Plate VII. 

I venture to think the importance of studies of atmospheric absorption at other 
stations would warrant observers elsew'here in taking up the spectro-bolometric work 
involved in measures of the "solar constant." Measures of the absorption of the 
solar envelope, on the other hand, which require the provision of a great solar image, 
would not necessarily be duplicated elsewhere. 



Smithsonian Report, 1 904. 



Plate VII. 



TEMPERATURE 
DEPj^KT'JRES . 



Azores, Madeiras, 
Br]T!5h Isles, 
SW Europe, 

N /iFKlCA. 

IS Stktions 



Central Europe. 
10 Statioi>is. " 



European 
Russia 
11 Stations. 

Asiatic 
Russia. 
8 stations 



High Rutitudes 
SW Europe. 
7 Stations. 



General Meai^ 
North o' 

Temperate 

Zone. 225 

89 Stations 



Solar 

Radiation = '° 
Outside the zos 
Atmosphere . 




Jaiv Feb Hac flpl Mzcj 3i 



June JiUy Ajg Sept. Oct Isjou. Dec Je^n. 

Terrestrial Temperature and Solar Radiation, 1903. 




> 



CO - 

o - 



J 




f 



J 



z — 

o •- 

_i i 

< i 




1 



REPORT OB^ THE SECRETARY. 



83 



KESULTS IN DETAIL. 

Referrinfr to my report of la^;t year and to your recent {)nl)lication " on "A possible 
variation of solar radiation" for further inforniation, tlie following three tables suni- 
niarize the detailed results of the work already broadly discussed. Tables 1 and 2 
are given in eontinuation of similar tables in last year's report, and perhaps it needs 
only to remark concerning them that the firstsix months of 1904 have proved uncom- 
monly unfavorable to such studies as are here set forth, by reason of unusual cloudi- 
ness. Owing to the bad atmospheric conditions there have been no days when 
results as satisfactory as many of those of 1903 have been secured, and only two days' 
work of 1904, February 11 and May 28, are regarded here as worthy of much confi- 
dence. Taking the whole series together and comparing with the results of 1902-3, 
it appears probable, however, that excepting during the month of February, the solar 
radiation thus far in 1904 has been below the normal, although not so low as during 
the latter half of 1903. The atmospheric transmission of 1903-4 seems to be generally 
below that of 1902. 

Table 1. — Coejficients of afinosplteric transmismm for radiation from zenith suit. 



Wave length . 



Date. 



fi 


1^ 


1^ 


M 


At 


M 


M 


Ai 


^ 


0.40 


0.45 


0.50 


0.60 


0.70 


0.80 


0.90 


1.00 


1.20 



1.60 



Transmi.ssion coefficients for unit air mass. 



July 7 

August 24 

September 14. 
October 14 . . . 
October 29 . . . 
December 7 . . 
December 23 . 

11 
.lanuary '2~ ... 
February 11 .. 

April 4 

April 21 

May 12 

May 28 



General mean 

Mean, July 1, 1903, to Jan- 
uary 1, 1904 

Mean, January 1, 1904, to 
July 1, 1904 



0.42 


0.60 


0.66 


.40 


.51 


.59 


.52 


.71 


.80 


.64 


.70 


.76 


.53 


.59 


.64 


.59 


.65 


.75 


.64 


.70 


.75 


.60 


.67 


.73 


.42 


.56 


.59 


.42 


.63 


.67 




.45 
.55 


.60 
.71 


.35 


.40 


.57 


.63 


.494 


.607 


.683 


.534 


.637 


.707 


.436 


.572 


.655 



0.69 
.69 
.i2 
.80 
.75 
.82 
.79 

.73 
.59 
.72 
.67 
.79 
.77 



0.77 


0.82 


.78 


.84 


.87 


.90 


.85 


.88 


.80 


.82 


.85 


.87 


.85 


.89 


.79 


.86 


.69 


.78 


.79 


.85 


.76 


.82 


.83 


.86 


.83 


.87 


.802 


.848 


.821 


.860 


.'777 


.835 



0.85 
.86 
.91 
.89 
.83 
.89 
.90 

90 

84 
88 
85 
89 
90 



876 
.876 
.876 



0.86 


0.88 


.87 


.89 


.92 


.93 


.91 


.91 


.85 


.88 


.92 


.94 


.91 


.92 


.91 


.91 


.89 


.92 


.89 


.91 


.88 


.89 


.90 


.92 


.90 


.90 


.893 


.908 


.887 


.907 


.898 


.909 



0.89 
.90 
.93 
.92 
.01 
.95 
.94 



«Astrophysical Journal, June, 1904. Phil. Mag., July, 1904. 



84 



REPOUT OF THE SECRETARY. 



Table 2. — Values of the solar constant of radiation outside the eartWs atmosphere. 



Date. 



1903. 



July" 

Do 

August 24 

Do 

October 14 . . . 
Do 

October 29... 

December 7. . 

December 23. 
Do 




1904. 



January 27.. 

Do 

February 11 

Do 

April 4 

Do 

May 12 

Do 

May 25 

Do 

May 28 

Do 



Character of the 
observation. 



Fair 

do 
Good. 

do 

,.,*.. do 

do 

do 

do 

do 

do 



Hour 
angle 
west. 



h. m. 
51 



Fair 

do 

do 

do 

Indifferent , 

do 

do , 

do 

do 

do 

Fair 

do 



3 36 

1 17 

1 47 

1 .58 

2 25 

59 
2 45 

1 39 

2 41 

1 49 

2 65 

1 19 

2 29 
37 

3 12 

31 
3 35 

3 35 

4 25 

1 14 
4 15 



Air 
mass. 



1.07 
1.51 
1.18 
1.24 
1.72 
1.88 
1.69 
8.34 
2.52 
3.38 

2.20 
2.98 
1.81 
2.27 
1.21 
1.72 
1.08 
1.59 
1.53 
1.94 
1.09 
1.81 



Solar radiation per 

square centimeter 

per minute— 



At earth's 
surface. 



Cal. 
1.31 
1.10 
1.14 
1.12 
1.23 
1.18 
1.13 
.92 
1.16 
1.02 

1.18 
.99 
1.18 
1.02 
1.39 
1.25 
1.29 
1.19 
1.08 
.96 
1.42 
1.16 



Outside at- 
mosphere 
corrected 

to mean 
solar 

distance. 



Cal. 



2.16 
2.11 
1.93 
1.95 
1.98 
1.94 
1.97 
1.94 
1.96 
2.01 

2.05 
1.98 
2.29 
2.24 
2.08 
2.15 
1.90 
2.07 
2.24 
2.31 
2.14 
2.05 



Mean value of direct atmospheric transmission. — Since Table 2 was prepared, which 
was done without any reference to the subject of the present paragraph, at your 
request the numbers in the fifth cohnim have been corrected to represent the solar 
radiation at the earth's surface for zenith sun, and those in the sixth column to 
actual rather than mean solar distance. The ratio of the amount of heat which 
reaches the earth's surface for zenith sun to that outside the atmosphere is then 
obtained by dividing the former values by the latter, and the mean result is 68 per 
cent; whence the average absorption in our atmosphere is found to be 32 per cent, 
which is the amount by which the sun's radiation is diminished in a vertical trans- 
mission to the surface of the earth. In this connection attention may be invited to 
a pai)er published by you in the American Journal of Science, as long since as Sep- 
tember, 1884, in which you have stated that observations made up to that time by 
the best authorities gave a value of absorption for the zenith sun of about 20 per cent, 
and that owing chiefly to the neglect of selective absorption, this nearly unanimous 
value is nevertheless far inferior to the truth. The value just deduced from selective 
absorption methods may be consided as a confirmation of your then statement. 

You have elsewhere stated that the solar constant values obtained from high and 
low sun measures at a low altitude station are likely to be below rather than above 
the truth, and it may at least be admitted that there is a certain direct reflection of 
radiation in passing from outer space into our atmosphere, differing as it does from 
space in its optical density, and that a portion of radiation is {lere lost which can not 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



85 



be measured at any single .station higli or low. Aci'onlingly we must suppose that 
our solar constant values are (Uminished from one or botli the above causes, and 
hence that the atmospheric absorption here estimated is too little rather than too 
much. 

TRANSMISSION OF SOLAR ENVELOPE. 

Table S.—Preliminarn I'ulues of meficienlx of transmisalon in the solar envelope. 



Wave length 


0.45 


1^ >A 
0.60 0.60 


0.70 


0.80 


0.90 


1.00 


1.20 


1.60 


2.00 


Date. 


Coefficients for vertical transmission. 


1903. 
September 25 

1904. 
February 20 


0.63(?) 
.62(?) 


0.58 
.65 


0.66 
.72 


0.70 
.76 


0.72 
.78 


0.75 
.80 


0.77 
.82 


0.80 
.85 


0.83 

.87 


0.84 
.88 



Turning now to Table 3, which purports to give the vertical transmission for dif- 
ferent wave lengths in the solar envelope, this depends but little on our own atmos- 
phere, and much is hoped from a continuation of the work with the great horizontal 
telescope on which these results rest. As this work is but newly developed here, a 
short description of the procedure and assumptions involved in estimating the trans- 
mission of the solar envelope will not be out of place. A spectro-bolometer, provided 
with a slit only about 5 millimeters high, is set so that rays of a certain known wave 
length reach the bolometer from the slit. Then with the prism stationary, but with 
the automatic recording plate moving before the galvanometer as usual, the solar 
image is allowed to drift by the earth's diurnal motion across the slit of the spectro- 
bolometer. Thus is produced a curve like those shown in Plate VIII, in which hori- 
zontal distances from the center of the figure are proportional to distances along the 
radius of the solar disc, and the height of the curve is proportional to the intensity of 
the radiation of the given wave length at the corresponding point on the solar disc. 
Apparently the figure would be "flat-topped," if there was no absorption of the rays 
by the solar envelope, and the curvature of the figure gives a rough indication of the 
amount of the absorption." If the curve for a given day's observation has steeper 
sides than that of another, greater absorption would be indicated for the former day, 
and such was the case for the two days' work represented in Table 3. 

But in order to estimate quantitatively the change in absorption in the solar 
envelope, it is necessary to make two assumptions whose truth can as yet only be 
verified by the accuracy with which they represent the experimental results. First, 
it may be supposed that the radiation of the absorbing envelope is negligible com- 
pared with that of the photosphere, and that the absorption is, like that of the 
earth's atmosphere, represented by such an exponential formula as would apply to a 
homogeneous atmosphere. Second, the thickness of the absorbing layer being 
unknown, its relative thickness compared with the solar radius must be assumed in 
order to compute the exi)onent of the formula. 

In the first computations made here it was assumetl that the thickness of the 
absorbing envelope was very small as compared with the sun's radius. Upon this 



c You have suggested the possibility that owing to a columnar structure of the solar 
surface we might find the limb of the sun brighter than the center of the disc in the 
absence of an absorbing envelope, by reason of our seeing near the limb only the 
supposedly brighter tops of the columns. No allowance for this is made in these 
preliminary computations. 



86 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

basis logarithmic plots" prepared from the oljserved results showed great departures 
from straight lines for all wave lengths, so that either the absorbing layer is not so 
thill as first assumed, or the phenomenon is not a simple one of absorption. Acting 
on the former supposition, it was found that when the absorption was assumed to 
take place in a homogeneous stratum of about 45,000 miles thickness outside the 
photosphere, or in other words, a rather thick stratum, yet well within the thick- 
ness of the brighter part of the solar corona, very little curvature was exhibited in 
the logarithmic plots at any wave lengths, or for any distance less than 99 per cent of 
a radius from the center of the disc, or on either day of observation. Evidently the 
assumption of homogeneity is a very strained one, hardly perhaps to be tolerated 
even in a preliminary computation. I have, however, given the transmission coeffi- 
cients found in this way in Table 3. Estimates have been prepared of the amount 
by which the total radiation of the sun would be increased Mere this envelope 
wholly removed, but these are so far dependent upon the assumption referred to that 
I defer their presentation for the present. 

I wish, in closing, to particularly commend the zeal and ability with which Mr. F. 
E. Fowle, jr., has aided in carrying through all the work above reported. Mr. Fowle 
has also published & during the year a valuable study of the absorption of water 
vapor in the earth's atmosphere, which summarizes measurements and computations 
he has made from holographic data collected here in the last three years. He finds 
the transmission in each of the water-vapor bands studied to follow Bouguer's expo- 
nential law, but with coefficients of transmission varying greatly in amount for dif- 
ferent bands and for different wave lengths in the same band. In passing from band 
to band the absorption is generally greater the greater the wave length of the band, 
but taking each band by itself the shorter wave lengths are most absorbed. 

CONCLUSION. 

The work of the year has been distinguished by useful improvements in the appa- 
ratus of the Observatory, notably in the bolometer, the pyrheliometer, and the great 
horizontal telescope. But chiefly it is marked by a great advance toward what you 
have set as the far-off final goal of our efforts, namely, the establishment of a sound 
basis for long range forecasting of climate, in the study of the solar radiation, and its 
absorption in our atmosphere. The work of the year has made it seem possible, 
though not yet certain, that fluctuations of the amount of solar radiation as great as 
10 per cent may occur, and that independently of them there are marked changes of 
the transparency of our atmosphere. Both causes must profoundly influence cli- 
matic con<litions, and both are being studied here with increasing facility, accuracy, 
and success, by the aid of the spectro-bolometer. In short, it now seems not improb- 
able that successful general forecasting of climate will be the not too far distant 
outcome of our work. 

Respectfully submitted. 

C. G. Abbot, Aid hi Charge. 

Mr. S. P. Langley, 

Secretary of the Srtiithsunian Institution. 

« Compare Plate VI of last year's report. 

^Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. II, Part 1. 



Appendix VI. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 

Sir: I have the honor to present the following report on the ojierations of the 
library of the Sniithsdnian Institntion for the fiscal year ending June 80, 1904. 

The number of pubUeations received and recorded in the accession books of the 
Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress, is as follows: 



Volumes 

Parts of volumes 

Pamphlets 

Charts 



Total 



Quarto or Octavo or fr„.oi 
larger. smaller. ^"'*'- 



526 

10, 2% 

623 



1,760 
6, 022 
4,526 



2,286 

16,318 

5,149 

215 



23, 968 



The accession numbers run from 452466-460376. 

A few of these publications have been temporarily held at the Institution for the use 
of the staff, but the larger number have been sent direi-t to the Library of Congress. 
About 355 boxes and 18 packages were used in transmitting the sendings to the 
Library of Congress, and they are estimated to have amounted to the equivalent of 
14,920 octavo volumes. This does not include a large number of public documents 
presented to the Institution and transmitted without being recorded. 

The selecting and sending to the Library of Congress of volumes and parts of vol- 
umes belonging to the Smithsonian deposit wliich had been held at the Institution 
and Museum in the past has been carried on in connection with the other work of 
the library, and while a large number have been sent up there still remain from 
last year many volumes ready for checking on the accession books. No separate 
count has been kept of these sendings, and they are included in the above estimate. 
The libraries of the Secretary, Office, and Astrophysical Observatory have received 
during the year 337 volumes, pamphlets and charts, and 2,048 parts of vjlumes, 
making a total of 2,385, and a grand total, including books for the Smithsonian 
deposit, of 26,353. 

The parts of serial publications that were entered on the card catalogue numbered 
24,126. Six thousand slips for completed volumes were made, and about 510 cards 
for new periodicals and annuals were added to the permanent record from tiie 
periodical-reconling desk. 

Inaugural dissertations and academic publications were received from universities 
at the following places: 

Halle. 

Heidelberg. 

Ilelsingfors. 

Ithaca (Cornell). 

Jena. 

Kiel. 

Konigsberg. 

Lafayette (Purdue). 

Leipsie. 

Louvain. 

Marburg. 

New York (Columbia). 

87 



Baltimore (Johns Hop- 
kins). 
Basel. 
Berlin. 
Bern. 
Bonn. 
Breslau. 
Erlangen. 
Freiburg. 
G lessen. 
Geneva. 
Greifswald. 



Paris. 

Philadelphia (University 

of I'ennsylvania). 
Rost<^)ck. 
St. Petersburg. 
Toulouse. 
Tubingen. 
Utrecht. 
Wurzburg. 
Zurich. 



88 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

The plan inaugurated by the Secretary to effect new exchanges and to secure miss- 
ing parts to complete sets, has been continued. In doing this 945 letters were written 
and 285 new periodicals were added to the receipts, together with the completion 
of 349 defective series. The sending out of postal cards for missing numbers has 
been continued, and 105 were mailed, with the result that 53 missing parts were 
received in response. 

In the reference room the members of the scientific staff and others have consulted 
the transactions and proceedings of the learned societies; and in the reading room 20 
bound volumes of periodicals and 2,900 separate periodicals were taken out for con- 
sultation. The sections maintained in the Institution are the Secretary's library, 
Office library, and the Employee's li))rary, together with the sectional libraries of 
the Astrophysical Observatory, Aerodromics, International Exchanges, and Law 
Reference. 

At the close of last year 64 volumes in the Astrophysical Observatory library had 
just been completed and made ready for binding, and in the early part of this year 
they were bound. 

The collection of books in the library at the National Zoolgical Park has had an 
addition, by purchase, of 15 works on the life and habits of animals and birds, and 
one or two exchanges of periodical publications have been effected by the Institution 
for its special benefit. 

The employees have availed themselves of the privileges of the Employee's 
library, and 3,220 books were borrowed, that number being a considerable increase 
over last year. The library has had an addition, by purchase, of 37 new books, and 
120 magazines were bound. The sending of a collection of books, numbering about 
40, each month to the National Zoological Park has been continued with such success 
that an arrangement was made in the early part of June to make a similar sending 
to the Bureau of American Ethnology, and a case containing about 26 volumes was 
sent. 

The increase in the number of books presented by General de Peyster, for the 
Watts de Peyster collection Napoleon Buonaparte, created the necessity for more 
shelf room, and 22 cases were constructed to hold the additions to this collection 
that have been received during the last two years. These cases were placed against 
the north and south walls of the lower corridor of the office wing of the Institution. 
General de Peyster continues to add many valuable volumes to the collection, 
together with several bronze busts. There have also been received from him oil 
paintings and many historical relics of the colonial period, which have been placed 
in the United States National Museum for exhibition. 

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE. 

The work c5f the International Catalogue has been continued under the auspices of 
the Institution, and the addition to the allotment for this year has made possible the 
increase of nearly 50 per cent in the total number of references sent to the central 
bureau at London. The following table gives the number in detail: 

Literature of 1901 3, 044 

Literature of 1902 9, 424 

Literature of 1903 8, 745 

Total 21,213 

All of the first annual issue of the catalogue has now been published and distrib- 
uted, together with the following volumes of the second annual issue: Astronomy, 
Bacteriology, Mechanics, Physics, Mathematics, Mineralogy, and Physical Geogra- 
phy. This country still leads in the number of subscribers to the catalogue. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



89 



In the near futnro an effort will be made looking to a more complete cooperation 
of the authors and piil)li.Miiing bodies in the I'nited States with this liegional Bnreau 
by reciuestinji immediate notice and gnbject abstract of new publications coming 
within the scope of the International Catalogue. 

The international convention, which has the power of revision of the classification 
schedules, will meet in London in July, 1905, and has asked for suggestions from 
this country through the Smithsonian Institution. 



MUSKIM LIBRARY. 

The National Museum library has received a gift from Prof. Otis Tufton Mason, 
in addition to the one of some years ago, of about 2,000 pamphlets, separates, and 
bound quarto volumes, mostly on anthro[)ological subjects. A special book plate 
has been provided for this collection. The Museum has also received from Dr. 
Edward Jj. Greene his entire botanical library, which has been placed on deposit 
for a period of ten years in connection with his botanical collection. The conditions 
regarding Doctor Greene's library are that the books shall be accessible on the same 
terms as other books in the Museum li1)rary, with the exception that they are not 
to be lent to persons outside the District of Columbia or abroad without Doctor 
Greene's consent. In case of the death of Doctor Greene during the time specified, 
the library becomes the property of the United States. 

In the Museum library there are now 20,548 bound volumes and 35,950 unbound 
papers. The additions during the year consisted of 1,504 books, 3,187 pamphlets, 
and 700 parts of volumes. There were catalogued 938 books, of which 40 belonged 
to the Smithsonian deposit, and 2,100 pamphlets, of which 70 belonged to the Smith- 
sonian deposit, and 11,520 parts of periodicals, of which 1,887 belonged to the Smith- 
sonian deposit. In the accession book 1,387 volumes, 2,187 pamphlets, and 629 parts 
of volumes were recorded. The number of cards added to the authors' catalogue 
were 4,090, which does not include 2,855 cards for books and pamphlets recatalogued. 
In connection with the entering of periodicals 171 memoranda were made report- 
ing volumes and parts missing in the sets, together with a few titles of publications 
which were not represented in the library. The result of this work was the com- 
pleting, or partly filling vp, of 70 sets of jieriodicals. 

The number of books, pamphlets, and periodicals borrowed from the general 
library amounted to 26,456, including 5,679, which were assigned to the sectional 
libraries. 

There has been no change in the sectional libraries established in the Museum, 
and they are as follows: 

Fishes. 

Geology. 

History. 

Insects. 

Mammals. 

Marine invertebrates. 

Materia medica. 

Mesozoic fossils. 

Mineralogy. 

MoUusks. 

Oriental archaeology. 



Administration. 
Administrative assis- 
tant. 
Anthropology. 
Biology. 
Birds. 
Botany. 

Children's room. 
Comparative anatomy. 
Editor. 
Ethnology. 



Paleobotany. 

Parisites. 

Photography. 

Prehistoric archaeology. 

Reptiles. 

Stratigraphic paleontology. 

Superintendent. 

Taxidermy. 

Technology. 



In the following table are summarized all the accession for the Smithsonian deposit 
for the libraries of the Secretary, Office, Astrophysical Observatory, United States 



90 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 



National Museum, and National Zoological Park. That of the Bureau of Ethnology 
is not included, as it is separately administered: 

Smithsonian deposit 23, 968 

Secretary, Office, and Astrophysical Observatory libraries 2, 385 

United States National Museum library 5, 491 

National Zoological Park 17 

Total 31, 861 

Respectfully submitted. 

Cyrus Adler, Librarian. 
Mr. S. P. Langley, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 
July 29, 1904. 



Appkndix VII. 

RF.PORT OF TIIK KDITOR. 

Sir: I have the honor to wubuiit the followinj;; report on the pubUcations of the 
Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the year ending June 30, 1903: 

I. CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE. 

To the series of Contributions four memoirs have been added during the last year. 

1413. Hodgkius fund. On the Absorption and Emission of Air and its Ingre- 
dients of Wave Lengths from 250 //// to 100 //«. By Victor Schumann. City of 
Washington: Pubhshed by the Smithsonian Institution, 1903. Quarto. Pages iv, 
30, 4 plates. Part of Vol. XXIX. 

1414. Tiie Whalebone Whales of the Western North Atlantic Compared with those 
Occurring in European Waters with Some Observations on the Spec'.es of the North 
Pacific. By Frederick W. True. City of Washington: Pul)lished by the Smith- 
sonian In.«titution, 1904. Quarto. Pages vii, 332, 50 plates, 97 text tigures. Vol. 
XXXIII, Contributions to Knowledge. [In press.] 

1438. A Comparison of Features of the Earth and the Moon. By N. S. Shaler. City 
of Washington: Published by the Smithsonian Institution, 1903. Quarto. Pages v, 
79 (explanation of plates, pp. 81-130), 25 plates. Part of Vol. XXXIV. 

1459. On the Construction of a Silvered Glass Telescope of Fifteen and a half Inches 
in Aperture, and its U.se in Celestial Photography, by Henry Draper; and The Modern 
Reflecting Telescope and the Making and Testing of Optical Mirrors, by George W. 
Ritchey. City of Washington: Published by the Smithsoiuau Institution, 1904. 
Quarto. Pages 55 f 51, 13 plates. [In press.] Part of Vol. XXXIV. 

II. SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS. 

To the Miscellaneous (\illections 30 numbers have been added, most of them being 
articles published in the Quarterly Issue recently established to meet a special need 
for early publication of scientific papers. 

1374. Index to the Literature of Thorium, 1817-1902. By Cavalier H. Joiitt. 
City of Washington: Published by the Smithsonian Institution. Octavo. Pages 
154. 

1417. Phylogeny of Fusus and its Allies. By Aiiuuleus W. Grabau. Octavo. 
Pages III, 157 (158-192 explanation of plates), 18 plates, 21 text figures. 

1419. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. XLV. ((Quarterly Issue, Vol. I, 
parts 1-2. July-September, 1903.) City of Washington: Published by the Smith- 
sonian Institution, 1904. Octavo. Pages 223, 5G plates, 28 text figures. 

1420. Seventy New Malayan Mammals. By (ierrit S. ]\Iiller, jr. Reprinted from 
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Ciuarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. Pages 1-73, 
plates i-xi.x, 1 text figure. 

1421. Recent Studies of the Solar Constant of Radiation. By C. G. Abbot. 
Reprinted from Smithsonian Miscellaneous (Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. 
Pages 74-83, plates xx-xxii. 

1422. The newCoelostat and Horizontal Telescope of the Astrophysical C)l)servatory 
. of the Smithsonian Institution. By C. G. Abbot. Reprinted from the Smithsonian 

Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. Pages 84-90, plate xxiii. 

91 



92 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

1423. On Some Photographs of Living Finback Whales from Newfoundland. By 
Frederick W. True. Reprinted from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quar- 
terly Issue), Vol. XLV. Pages 91-94, plates xxiv-xxvi, 1 text figure. 

1424. A Skeleton of Hesperornis. By Frederic A. Lucas. Reprinted from Smith- 
sonian Miscellaneous Collections ( Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. Page 95, plate xxvii. 

1425. A New Plesiosaur. By Frederic A. Lucas. Reprinted from Smithsonian 
Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue) , Vol. XLV. Page 96, plate xxviii. 

1426. Shell Ornaments from Kentucky and Mexico. By W. H. Holmes. Reprinted 
from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections ((Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. Pages 
97-99, plates xxix-xxx. 

1427. On the Glacial Pothole in the National Museum. By George P. Merrill. 
Reprinted from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. 
Pages 100-103, plate xxxi. 

1428. Notes on the Herons of the District of Columbia. By Paul Bartsch. Re- 
printed from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. 
Pages 104-111, plates xxxiii-xxxviii. 

1429. Preliminary Report on an Archseological Trip to the West Indies. By J. 
Walter Fewkes. Reprinted from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly 
Issue), Vol. XLV. Pages 112-133, plates xxxix-xlviii. 

1430. Form Regulation in Ca?lentera and Turbellaria. ByC.M. Child. Reprinted 
from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. Pages 
134-143. 

1431. New Genera of South American Fresh-water Fishes, and New Names for 
some old genera. By Carl H. Eigenmann. Reprinted from Smithsonian Miscella- 
neous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. Pages 144-148. 

1432. Korean Headdresses in the National Museum. By Foster H. Jenings. 
Reprinted from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV 
Pages 149-167, text figures 3-28. 

1433. The Hodgkins Fund of the Smithsonian Institution.. By Helen Waldo 
Bui-nside. Reprinted from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), 
Vol. XLV. Pages 168-174, plate l. 

1434. A Notable Success in the Breeding of Black Bears. By Arthur B. Baker. 
Reprinted from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. 
Pages 175-179, plates li-lii. 

1435. Chinese Medicine. By James M. Flint. Reprinted from Smithsonian Mis- 
cellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. Pages 180-182. 

1436. Notes on the Rocks of Nugsuaks Peninsula and its Environs, Greenland. 
By W. C. Phalen. Reprinted from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quar- 
terly Issue), Vol. XLV. Pages 183-212, plates liii-lv. 

1440. A Select Bibliography of Chemistry, 1492-1902. By Henry Carrington Bol- 
ton. Second Supplement. City of Washington: Published by the Smithsonian 
Institution, 1904. Octavo. Pages iii, 462. 

1441. Hodgkins Fund. Researches on the Attainment of Very Low Tempera- 
tures. By Morris W. Travers. Part I. City of Washington: Published by the 
Smithsonian Institution, 1904. Octavo. Pages i, 32, text figures 1-11. 

1445. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. XLV. (Quarterly Issue, Vol. 
I, parts 3 and 4, October-December, 1903.) City of Washington: Published by the 
Smithsonian Institution, 1904. Pages xii, 225-463, plates lvii-cih, text figures 29-45. 

1446. A Method of Avoiding Personal Equation in Transit Observations. By S. P. 
Langley. Reprinted from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), 
Vol. XLV. Pages 225-229, plates lvii. 

1447. On a Collection of Fishes made by Mr. Alan Owston in the Deep Waters of 
Japan. By David Starr Jordan and John Otterbein Snyder. Reprinted from Smith- 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 93 

sonian Miscellanooufi Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLX. Pages 2.']0-240, 
plates LViii-Lxiir, text figure 29. 

1448. Description of New Cyprinoid Fish, IIemil)arl)us Joiteni, from the Pei Ho, 
Tientsin, China. By David Starr Jordan and Edwin Chapin Starks. Reprinted 
from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. Pages 
241-242, plate lxiv. 

1449. The Removal of the Remains of .Tames Smithson. By S. P. Langley. Re- 
printed from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. 
Pages 248-251, text ligiire oO. 

1450. Notes on the Breeding Habits of the Yellow-bellied Terrapin. By Hugh M. 
Smith. Reprinted from the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), 
Vol. XLV. Pages 252-25:5. 

1451. A New Pelican Fish from the Pacific. By Barton A. Bean. Reprinted from 
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. Pages 254-255, 
text figure .31. 

1452. A Revision of the Paleozoic Bryozoa. Part I. Ctenostomata. By E. O. 
Ulrich and R. S. Bassler. Reprinted from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 
(Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. Pages 256-294, plates lxv-lxviii, text figures .32-3.3. 

14.53. A Remarkable Genus of Fishes, the Umbras. By Theodore Gill. Reprinted 
from Smithsonian INIiscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. Pages 
295-305, text figures 34-38. 

1454. A New Occurrence of Unakite. By W. C. Phalen. Reprinted from Smith- 
sonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. Pages .306-316, 
plates Lxix-Lxxr. 

1455. The Dinosaur Trachodon Annectens. By F. A. Lucas. Reprinted from 
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. Pages 317-320, 
plates Lxxii-Lxxiii, text figures 40-43. 

1456. Classification of the Hares and their Allies. By Marcus Ward L3'on, jr. 
Reprinted from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (Quarterly Issue), Vol. XLV. 
Pages 321-447, plates lxxiv-c, text figures 44-15. 

7. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. XLV (containing Quarterly 
Issue, Vol. I, Parts 1-4). 1904. 

Several other works for the series of Miscellaneous Collections are in press, includ- 
ing a Catalogue of North American Diptera, by Prof. J. M. Aldrich, and Researches 
in Helmintnology and Parasitology, by Dr. Joseph Leidy. 

III. SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS. 

The annual report is in two parts or volumes, one devoted to the Institution proper 
and the other to the National ^Museum. The contents of the Smithsonian volume 
for 1902 were given in the last report of the editor when the work was all in type, 
although the bound volume and all the separate papers had not then been distributed. 

1377. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, show- 
ing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ending 
June .30, 1902. Washington: Government Printing Office, 1903. Octavo. Pages 
Lvi, 687; 114 plates, .59 text figures. 

Additional copies of several papers from the annual reports of previous years were 
printed to supply continued demands. These included: 

1443. On the Various Modes of Flight in Relation to Aeronautics. By Dr. James 
Bell Pettigrew. From the Smithsonian Report for 1867, pages 325-334. Washing- 
ton: 1904. 

The Secretary's report for the year ending June 30, 1903, was put in type in 
November, 1903, for the use of the Regents. The General Appendix of the 1903 



94 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

volume was sent to the Public Printer in Way, 1904, and most of it had been put in 
type before the fiscal year closed. The contents of this report are as follows: 

1489. Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Kegents of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion at meeting of January 28, 1903. Report of Executive Committee. Acts and 
resolutions of Congress. Pages xv-lxi. 

1437. Report of !S. P. Langley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for the 
year ending June 30, 1903. Pages 1-97, plates i-vii. 

1490. General Description of the Moon. By N. S. Slialer. Pages 103-113, plates 
i-x, with explanation pages. 

1491. The Pressure due to Radiation. By E. F. Nichols and G. F. Hull. Pages 
115-138. 

1492. The Sun-spot Period and the Variations of the Mean Annual Temperature 
of the Earth. By Ch. Nordmann. Pages 139-149. 

1493. Methods of Forecasting the Weather. By J. M. Pernter. Pages 151-165. 

1494. Progress with Air Ships. By Maj. B. Baden-Powell. Pages 169-171, plates 

I-IV. 

1495. Aerial Navigation. By O. Chanute. Pages 173-181. 

1496. Graham Bell's Tetrahedral Kites. Pages 183-185, plate i. 

1497. Radium. By E. Curie. Pages 187-198. 

1498. Radium. By J. J. Thomson. Pages 199-201. 

1499. Exj)eriments in Kadio-activity and the Production of Helium from Radium. 
By Sir William Ramsay and Frederick Soddy. Pages 203-206. 

1500. The N Rays of M. Blondlot. By C. G. Abbot. Pages 207-214, plate i. 

1501. Modern Views on Matter. By Sir Oliver Lodge. Pages 215-228. 

1502. Modern Views on Matter; the Realization of a Dream. By Sir William 
Crookes. Pages 229-241. 

1503. The Atomic Theory. By F. W. Clarke. Pages 243-262. 

1504. Intra-atomic Energy. By Gustave Le Bon. Pages 263-293. 

1505. The Electric Furnace. By J. Wright. Pages 295-310. 

1506. High-speed Electric Interurban Railways. By George Gibson. Pages 311- 
321, plates i-v. 

1507. The Marienfelde-Zossen High-speed Electric Railway Trials. By Alfred 
Gradenwitz. Pages 323-331. 

1508. The Beginnings of Photography : A Chapter in the History of the Develop- 
ment of Photography with the Salts of Silver. By Maj. Gen. J. AVaterhouse. Pages 
333-361. 

1509. The Relations of Geology. By Prof. Charles Lapworth. Pages 363-390. 

1510. Terrestrial Magnetism in its Relation to Geography. By Capt. Ettrick W. 
Creak. Pages 391-406, plates i-ii. 

1511. An Exploration to Mount McKinley, America's Highest Mountain. By 
Alfred H. Brooks: Pages 407-425, plates i-ix. 

1512. North Polar Exploration: Field Work of the Peary Arctic Club, 1898-1902. 
By R. E. Peary. Pages 427-457, plates i-ix. 

1513. The First Year's Work of the National Antarctic Expedition. By Sir Clem- 
ents R. Markham. Pages 459-465, plate i. 

1514. The Swedish Antarctic Expedition. By Otto Nor(lenski("»ld and others. Pages 
467-479, plate i. 

1515. Food Plants of Ancient America. By 0. F. Cook. Pages 481-497. 

1516. Desert Plants as a Source of Drinking Water. By Frederick V. Coville. 
Pages 499-505, plates i-ii. 

1517. A New Theory of the Origin of Species. By A. Dastre. Pages 507-517. 

1518. The t^volution of the Human Foot. By M. Anthony. Pages 519-535. 

1519. The Name Mammal and the Idea Expressed. By Theodore Gill. Pages 
537-544. 



REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 95 

1520. Kxperiniontal Studies in tlu' Mental liit'e nf Animals. I'.y N. VaseFiide ami 
r. Rosseau. Paj^es 545-5(i(). 

1521. Aniinal.s that llnnt. liy Henri Coiipiii. Pages 5()7-571. 

1522. Fiaminjides' Nests. By Frank I\l. Chapman. Pages 57:^-575, i)lates i-ii. 

1523. Upon Maternal Solicitude in Riiyncliota and OIIkt Xunsdcinl Inserts. P>y 
ii. W. Kirkaldy. Pages 577-585. 

1524. The Psychical Faculties of .\nts and Some Other Insects. By A. i'nrel. 
Pages 587-599. 

1525. Musk Oxen in Cai)tivity. By Jul. Schii'.tt. Pages 601-609, plates i-iv. 

1526. Frozen Mammoth in Siberia. By O. F. Herz. Pages 611-625, plates i-ix. 

1527. Spouting and IMovenients of Whales. By E. C. Racovitza. Pages 627-(i45, 

1528. Problems Arising from Variations in the Development of Skid I and Brains. 
By Prof. Johnson Symington. Pages 647-660. 

1529. The Antiquity of the Lion in Greece. By Dr. A. B. Meyer. Pages 661-667, 
plate I. 

1530. The Excavations at Abusir, Egypt. By Dr. A. Wiedemann. Pages 669-680 
plates i-viH. 

1531. The Ancient Hittites. By Dr. Leopold Messerschmidt. Pagess 681-703, 
plates i-vi. 

1532. Central Amerii-m Hieroglyphics. By Cyrus Thomas. Pages 705-721, jilates 
i-iii. 

1533. Traces of .\boriginal Operations in an Iron Mine Near Leslie, Mo. By W. II. 
Holmes. Pages 723-726, i)lates i-vii. 

1534. Lhasa and Central Tibet. By G. Ts. Tsybikoff. Pages 727-74(), plates i-vii. 

1535. A Journey of Geographical and Archaeological Exploration in Chinese 
Turkestan. By M. A. Stein. Pages 747-774, plates i-vii. 

1536. From the Somali Coast through P'thiopia to the Sudan. By Oscar Neumann. 
Pages 775-792, plates i-vi. 

1537. Primeval Japanese. By Capt. F. Brinkley. Pages 793-804. 

1538. The Korean Language. By Homer B. Hulbert. Pages 805-810. 

1539. The Republic of Panama. By Prof. VVilliam H. Burr. Pages 811-826, 
plates i-ii. 

1540. The Reclamation of the West. By F. H. Newell. Pages 827-841, plates i-iv. 

1541. Robert Henry Thurston. By W. F. Durand. Pages 843-849, plate i. 

1542. Theodore Mommsen. By Emil Reich. Pages 851-855. 

IV. SPECIAL PUBLIC.VTIONS OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 

1418. International Exchange List of the Smithsonian Institution, September, 

1903. Pages 492. 

1442. James Smithson. By Samuel I'ierpont Langley. (Reprinted from The 
Smithsonian Institution, 1846-1896. The History of its First Half Century. ) City 
of Washington, 1904. Octavo. Pages 25; portrait of Smithson. 

1460. International Exchange. Brussels Convention of 1886, Proclaimed by the 
United States, 1889. 

1461. Classified list of Smithsonian publications available for distribution April, 

1904. Pages 29. 

V. NATIONAL MLSEUM PlIBLIC.\TIONS. 

The publications of the National Museum consist (a) the Annual Report, forming 
a separate volume of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution; (b) The Proceed- 
ings of the United States National Museum; (c) the Bulletin of the United States 
National Museum, and (rf) Contributions from the United States Herbarium. 

The Report for the year ending June 30, 1902, was completed during the past fiscal 
year and the manuscript of the 1903 Report was in press. 



96 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

1416. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, show- 
ing the operations^, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ending 
June 30, 1902. Report of the United States National Museum. Washington: Gov- 
ernment Printing Office, 1904. Octavo. Pages xxiv, 784, plates 1-248, 1, 1-13; text 
figures, 1-212, 1-197. 

CONTENTS. 

Part I. Report upon the condition and progress of the United States National Museum during the 
year ending June 30, 1902. By Richard Rathbun, assistant secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 
in charge of the United States National Museum. 

I'art II. Papers describing and illustrating collections in the United States National Museum. 

Aboriginal American Basketry: Studies in a Textile Art Without Machinery. By Otis Tufton 
Mason. 

The Herpetology of Porto Rico. By Leonhard Stejneger. 

VVokas: Primitive Food of the Klamath Indians. By Frederick Vernon Coville. 

Proceedings of the United States National Museum. Volume XXV. Published 
under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. Washington: Government 
Printing Office, 1903. Octavo. Pages xiv, 1021, with text figures and 32 plates. 

Proceedings of the United States National Museum. Volume XXVI. Published 
under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. Washington: (Tovernment 
Printing Office, 1903. Octavo. Pages xv, 1058, with text figures and 69 plates. 

Proceedings of the United States National Museum. Volume XXVII. Published 
under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. Washington: Government 
Printing Office, 1904. Octavo. Pages xvii, 998, with text figures and 50 plates. 

American Hydroids. Part II. The Sertularidpe, with 41 plates. By Charles 
Cleveland Nutting. Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904. Special Bul- 
etin. No. 4. Quarto. Pages ii, 325, with 41 plates. 

Separate papers from Proceedings, Volume 26. 

No. 1333. Notes on Orthoptera from Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, and Texas, 
with descriptions of new species. By Andrew Nelson Caudell. Pages 775-809, 
plate Lv. 

No. 1334. A review of the Cyprinoid fishes of Japan. By David Starr Jordan and 
Henry W. Fowler. Pages 811-862, text figures 1-8. 

No. 1335. The Phasmidge or walking sticks of the United States. By Andrew 
Nelson Caudell. Pages 863-885, plates lvi-lix. 

No. 1336. Description of an extinct mink from the shell heaps of the Maine coast. 
By Daniel Webster Prentiss. Pages 887-888, text figure. 

No. 1337. Revision of the Crustacea of the genus Lepidopa. By James E. Bene- 
dict. Pages 889-895, text figures 1-8. 

No. 1338. A review of the Siluroid fishes or Catfishes of Japan. By David Starr 
Jordan and Henry W. Fowler. Pages 897-911, text figures 1-2. 

No. 1339. Notice of a collection of fishes made by H. H. Brimley in Cane River 
and Boilings Creek, North Carolina, with a description of a new species of Notropis 
{N. hrimleyi). By Barton A. Bean. Pages 913-914. 

No. 1340. On the relations of the fishes of the family Lamprididse or Opahs. By 
Theodore Gill. Pages 915-924, text figures 1-3. 

No. 1341. Amphipoda from Costa Rica. By Rev. Thomas R. R. Stebbing. Pages 
925-931, plates lx-lxi. 

No. 1342. Synopsis of the family Astartidse, with a review of the American species. 
By William Healey Dall. Pages 933-951, plates lxii-lxiii. 

No. 1343. An Alaskan corymorpha-like Hydroid. By Samuel Fessenden Clarke. 
Pages 953-958, text figures 1-7. 

No. 1344. On some neglected genera of fishes. By Theodore Gill. Pages 959-902. 

No. 1345, Notice of a small collection of fishes, including a rare eel, recently 



KKI'OKT (»K TIIK SECRETARY. 97 

rtccivod IroiH H. .Maxwi'll Ix'froy, Brid^'i'tDWii, Bail)a(loH, West Indies. By Barton 

A. Bean. I'ages lH).')-9()4, text figure. 

No. 134H. On some fish genera of the first e(hti()n of Cuvier's R6gne Animal and 
Oken's Names. By Theodore (lill. Pages 9r)ri-967. 

No. 1347. Report on the fresh-water Ostracoida of the United States National 
Museum, inchidinga revision of the su])families and genera of the family Cyprididaj. 
By Richard W. Sharpe. Pages 905-1001, plates lxiv-lxix. 

No. 1348. A review of the fishes of Japan belonging to the family of Hexagrani- 
mid;ip. By David Starr Jordan and Edwin Chapin Starks. Pages 1003-1013, text 
figures 1-3. 

No. 1349. Note on the fish genera named Macrodon. By Theodore Gill. Pages 
1015-1016. 

Separate jxrpers from Proceedings, Volume 27. 

No. 1350. Contributions to the Natural History of the Isopoda. By Harriet Rich- 
ardson. Pages 1-89, text figures 1-92. 

No. 1351. A review of the Scorppenoid fishes of Japan. By David Starr Jordan 
and Edwin Chapin Starks. Pages 91-175, plates i-ii, text figures 1-20. 

No. 1352. A revision of the American great horned owls. By Harry C. Ober- 
holser. Pages 177-192. 

No. 1353. A new batracliian and a new reptile from the Trias of Arizona. By 
Frederic A. Lucas. Pages 193-195, plates iii-iv. 

No. 1354. A review of the wrens of the genus Troglodytes. By Harry C. Ober- 
holser. Pages 197-210, plate v. - . 

No. 1355. Report on the fresh-water Bryozoa of the United States. By Charles 

B. Davenport. Pages 211-221, plate vi. 

No. 1365. On the species of White Chimera from Japan. By David Starr J(jrdan 
and John Otterbein Snyder. Pages 223-226, text figures 1-2. 

No. 1357. Notes on a killer whale (genus Orcinus) from the coast of Maine. By 
Frederick W. True. Pages 227-230, plates vii-vin. 

No. 1358. A review of the Cottida; or Sculpins found in the waters of Japan. By 
David Starr Jordan and Edwin Chapin Starks. Pages 231-335, text figures 1-43. 

No. 1359. Notes on the bats collected by William Palmer in Cuba. By Gerrit S. 
Miller, jr. Pages 337-348. Plate ix. 

No. 1360. List of Hemiptera-Heteroptera of Las Vegas Hot Springs, New Mexico. 
Collected by Messrs. C. A. Schwarz and Herbert S. Barber. Pages 349-364. 

No. 1361. A revision of American Siphonaptera, or fleas, together with a complete 
list and bibliography of the group. By Carl F. Baker. Pages 365-469, plates 
x-xxvi. 

No. 1362. The Aleyrodids, or mealey-winged flies, of California, with references to 
other American species. By Florence E. Bemis.. Pages 471-537. plates xxvii- 

XXXVII. 

No. 1363. Studies in Old World Forficulids or earwigs, and Blattids or cock- 
roaches'. By James A. G. Rehn. Pages 539-560. 

No. 1364. Studies in American Mantids or soothsayers. By James A. G. Rehn. 
Pages 561-574. 
No. 1.365. A review of the Japanese fishes of the family of Agonida^. By David 

Starr Jordan and Edwin Chapin Starks. Pages 575-599, text figures 1-13. 

No. 1366. The osteology of some Berycoid fishes. By Edwin Chapin Starks. Pages 
601-619, text figures 1-10. 

No. 1367. A new genus and two ne^v species of Crustaceans of the family Albuueidpe 
from the Pacific Ocean; with remarks on the probable use of the antennuUe in Albu- 
nea and Lepidopa. By James E. Benedict. Pages 621-625, text figures 1-5. 

SM 1904 7 



98 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

No. 1368. A new siiecief^ of Argnluf*, with a more roniplete account of two species 
already described. By Charles Branch AViison. Pages 627-655, text figures 1-38. 

No. 1369. Contributions to the Natural History of the Isopoda. By Harriet Rich- 
ardson. Pages 657-681, text figures 1-39. 

No. 1370. Description of a new African weaver-bird. By Harry C. Oberholser. 
Page 683. 

No. 1371. New dragon-fly nymphs in the United States National IMuseuin. By 
James G. Needham. Pages 685-720, plates xxxviii-xliv, text figures 1-11. 

No. 1372. New molluscan genera from the Carlwniferous. By George H. Girty. 
Pages 721-736, plates xlv-xlvii. 

No. 1373. Descriptions of two new birds from Somali Land. By Harry C. Ober- 
holser. Pages 737-739. 

No. 1374. Two new ferns of the genus Polypodium, from Jamaica. By William R. 
Maxon. Pages 741-744. 

No. 1375. Tineid moths from British Columbia, with descriptions of new species. 
By August Busck. Pages 745-778. 

No. 1376. The Lepidoi)tera of the Kootenai District of British Columbia. By 
Harrison G. Dyar. Pages 779-938. 

No. 1377. Notes on collections of fishes from Oahu Island and Laysan Island, 
Hawaii, with descriptions of four new species. By David Starr Jordan and John 
Otterbein Snyder. Pages 939-948. 

No. 1378. Two Orthoptera hitherto unrecorded from the United States. By Andrew 
Nelson Caudell. Pages 949-952, text figures 1-3. 

No. 1379. A new fern, Goniophlebium pringlei, from Mexico. By William R. 
Maxon. Pages 953-954, plate xlviii, text figure. 

No. 1380. The Persimmon Creek Meteorite. By Wirt Tassin. Pages 955-959, 
plates XLix-L. 

No. 1381. Schmidtina, a genus of Japanese sculpins. By David Starr Jonlan and 
Edwin Chapin Starks. Page 961. 

VI. ASTKOPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY. 

No. 1439. The 1900 Solar Eclipse Expedition of the Astrophysical Observatoiy of 
the Smithsonian Institution. By S. P. Langley, aided by C. (t. Abbot. A\'ashing- 
ton: Government Printing Office, 1904. Quarto. Pages 26, plates i-xxii. 

VII. BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY. 

Twentieth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology to the Secretary 
of the Smithsonian Institution, 1898-99. By J. W. Powell, Director. Washington: 
Government Printing Office. 1903, Large octavo. Pages ccxxiv, 237. Plates 
1-177 and 79 text figures. 

CONTENT.s: Administrativf report of Director, .\boriginal Tottery of the ITnited States by W. H. 
Holmes. 

Twenty-second Annual Re])ort of tiie Bureau of American Ethnology to the Secre- 
tary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1900-1901. By J. W. Powell, Director. In 
two parts. Part I. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1904. Pages xliv, 
320. Plates i-xci and 181 text figures. 

Contents: Two summers' work in Pueblo ruins, by Jesse Walter Fewkes. Mayan Calendar Systems, 
1 1, by Cyrus Thomas. 

VIII. REI'OKT OF THK AMERICAN HISTORICAL A.SSOCIATION. 

The annual rej)ort of the American Historical Association for the year 1903 was 
received and transmitted to the printer in May, 1904. Its contents are as follows: 



REPORT OF THE SEORKTARY. 99 

Voliniic I. 

Report cif I'rnccediiigs of Niiictfi-tUh Annual Mooting, at New Orleails, December 29-31, 1903, by 
Charles H. Haskins, corresponding secretary. 

Ethical Values in History, by Henry Charles Lea. 

Compromises of the (Constitution, by Max Karrand. 

The World Aspects of the Louisiana I'urchase, by William M. Sloaiie. 

The St<)ry of Lewis and Clark's Journals, by Kculicn (Jold Tliwaitcs. 

The Aaron Hurr Conspiracy at New Orleiiiis, l)y Walter Flavins McCaleb. 

The Spanish Archives and their Importance for the History of the United States, by William R. 
Shepherd. 

The American Colonial Charter, by Louise Phelps Kellogg. 

Public Documents of the First Fourteen Congresses, by Gen. A. W. Greely. 

Report of Public Archives Commission. 

Volume II. 

Seventh Report of Historical Manuscript Commi.ssion. Correspondence of the French Ministers 
to the United States, 1791-1797. 

IX. REPORT OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION. 

The sixth report of the National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution 
was received from that Society in May and submitted to Congress. 
Respectfully submitted. 

A. Howard Clark, Editor. 
Mr. S. P. Lang LEY, 

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 



Appendix VIII. 

REPORT OF THE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI- 
TUTION AND NATIONAL MUSEUM, LOUISIANA PURCHASE EXPO- 
SITION, ST. LOUIS, MO., 1004. 

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the Louisiana 
Purchase Exposition held at St. Louis, Mo., from April 30 to December 1, 1904, 
inclusive : 

An act of Congress approved June 28, 1902, provided for a Government 
exhibit to be made by the several Executive Departments, bureaus, and other 
organizations, including the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum, 
under the management of a Government board. The sum of $800,000 was 
appropriated for this exhibit, and for buildings the sum of $450,000. 

The main Government building, containing a floor space of 102.000 square 
teet. was located on an eminence at the east end of the Exposition grounds. 
Adjoining it was a smaller building for the aquarium and other exhibits of 
the United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries, and at a short distance 
farther south was erected a large cage for the exhibits of the National Zoolog- 
ical Park. A building and inclosure for the exhibit of the Life-Saving Service 
were located in another part of the grounds. 

Congress subsequently ai)propriated the sum of .$100,000 for an exhibit of 
the agricultural and experiment stations and colleges of mechanic arts. This 
exhibit was placed in the education building. 

The principal embellishment of the interior of the Government building was 
a reproduction of the Statue of Liberty, by Crawford, which surmounts the 
dome of the Capitol. The replica was made in staff by Mr. U. S. J. Dunbar 
from the original model in the rotunda of the National Museum. 

The space in the Government building assigned to the Smithsonian Institution 
and National Museum comprised about 10,500 square feet, having a frontage on 
the main aisle of a little over 200 feet and a depth of about 77 feet. It was 
located on the south side of the building, beginning at the rotunda and adjoin- 
ing the space of the Post-OfRce Department at the farther end. 

One end of this space was occupied by a specially designed pavilion 77 feet 
long and 25 feet wide, containing the exhibits of the Smithsonian Institution 
proper (including the Hodgkins fund), the Bureau df International Exchanges, 
and the Astrophysical Observatory, as well as a representation of the Children's 
Room in the Smithsonian building at Washington. The remainder of the space 
was occupied by the exhibit of the National Museum and that of the Bureau of 
American Ethnology. 

In addition to the space in the Government building, an area outside, about 
100 by 300 feet and lying 100 or 200 yards south of the building, as ali-eady 
stated, was assigned to the oxhil)it of the National Zoological Park, consisting 
of a large flying cage for birds. 

A large coelostat, which constituted a part of the exhibit of the Astrophysical 
Observatory, was also placed outside the Government building, about 30 feet 
south, opposite the east end of the Smithsonian space, a brick pier being erected 
as a foundation. 

The allotment of funds to the Institution and Museum from the appropriation 
for a Government exhibit was $110,000. 
100 



HKPOKT (»K I'HK SKCltFTARY. 101 

SAUTHSONIAN INSTITUTION I'UOI'KK. 

The exhibit of the Siuithsonian Institution oecupied a space of about 025 
S(iuare feet in tiie central court of the jjavilion nR'ntionetl above. A special 
table case was jilai-t'd in tlie middle of tliis <(iin't in which were displayed 
copies of the History ot the First Half Century of the Smithsonian Institution, 
the seal of tiie Institution, and several Hod^kins medals. A contiiuious seat 
extended alonj;' the cast wall of the court, above which were displayed two 
portraits of .Tames Smithson, copies of his scientific papers, a cast of the 
bronze tablet which was pl.iced on his tond) at Genoa, Italy, and i)ictures of the 
tomb itself. Adjoiniuir these objects was a series of i)hotographs of the chan- 
cellors and regents of the Institution and i)orti'aits of the secretaries. On the 
south wall of the court was exhibited a i)ortrait of Thomas G. Ilodgkins and 
circulars and papers relating to the Ilodgi^ins fund. A jiortion of the north 
wall of the court was occuitied by an exhibit from the liureau of International 
Exchiinges, consisting of a large statistical chart, showing its operations for 
a period of fifty-three years. A complete series of the publications of 
the Institution and all its dependencies, comprising 278 volumes, was also 
exhibited in this spai-e. Hung in midair over the pavilion was the quarter-size 
model of the Langley gas-driven aerodrome of UW-1. The Langley steam-driven 
aerodrome of 189t> was also hung in midair about 30 feet in front of the former. 
Three enlarged photographs of the steam-driven aerodrome when in motion 
were hung on the side-walls of the pavilion. 

The Children's Room occupied the portion of the pavilion abutting on the 
main aisle. In shai)e, size, and character of fittings and exhibits, the room 
was, as nearly as possible, a replica of the original room In the Smithsonian 
building. Around the walls were specially constructed low cases of light- 
colored wood, while in the center of the room, on a low stand, was an aquarium, 
and near by a cage of living song-birds. A portion of the wall-case was oc- 
cupied by birds of interest to children, among which were the following: 
Familiar birds of the United States; birds-of-paradise, and others noted for 
their brilliancy of coloring: interesting water-birds, such as the eider duck, 
lapwing, avocet. European stork, penguiu, barnacle goose: other noteworthy 
birds, such as the apteryx, rook, .jackdaw, and lyre bird, the harpy eagle, the 
condor, and examples of the largest and smallest owls. In this room were 
also exhibited the duckbill, or platypus, and the spiny ant-eater, peculiar 
egg-laying mannnals from Australia. To illustrate how animals are protected 
by their color and form, or " how creatures hide," was shown a weasel in 
the white winter coat on snow-covered ground, and another in the brown 
summer coat amid dead leaves; also an underwing moth on bai'k. and such 
peculiar insects as the katydid and walking-stick. Curious forms of life were 
shown in the finger sponge, the glass sponge, the organ-pipe coral, and the 
sea-horse, as well as brilliantly colored parrot fishes. The room also contained 
a small exhibit of useful minerals. In the south and east part of the wall- 
case was a collection of beautiful and interesting shells, including those of the 
giant clam. TrUUtcna. In another i)art of the room were some compar.-itive 
exhibits, such as a cast of the egg of the extinct bird Epyornis and the egg 
of a hummingbird, representing the largest and smallest eggs. Groups of 
brilliant North American and South American butterflies, and of familiar 
forms, arranged to show life-histories, were also exhibited. 

As a part of the exhibit of the Smithsonian Institution, may be mentioned 
a descriptive pamphlet of 35 pages and 12 plates, for gratuitous distribution 
to the public, being an account of the Smithsonian Institution, its origin, his 
tory, objects, and achievements. 



10'^ REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

ASTROPHYSICAL ODSERVATORY. 

As already mentioned, this exhibit occupied tbe south court of the main 
pavilion, which could he entered only from the court devoted to the Smith- 
sonliui pr()i)er. At previous expositions, the exhibit of this Bureau consisted 
of publications, charts of. the infra-red spectrum, and other charts relating to 
astrophysics, some small pieces of apparatus, and a series of transparent 
photographs of solar eclipses and of sun spots. All these objects were exhibited 
at St. Louis, and in addition a working exhibit was prepared. This consisted, 
tirst, of a bolometer connected with a galvanometer, on which was attached 
a mirror which tln-ew a s|»ot of light on a horizontal scale, so that any change 
of temperature in the bolometer would be transmitted to the galvanometer 
and the spot could be seen to move. This change of temperature could be 
brought about by a visitor sim]>ly holding his hand over a hole in the case 
in whicli the bolometer was placed. The wliole exliibit was carefully labeled, 
and there was scarcely a moment during the day when visitors could not be 
found watching the workings of this delicate instrument for measuring slight 
changes in temperature. 

The other moving exhibit consisted of a large two-mirrored coelostat, specially 
constructed for this exposition, which, as before mentioned, was located about 
30 feet south of the Government building, opposite the court in which the astro- 
physical exhibit was made. This coelostat on sunny days reflected a large beam 
of sunlight through a window into a dark room which occupied over half of the 
astrophysical court. Part of the beam of sunlight was thrown through a tele- 
scope, which in turn threw a large image of the sun on the north wall of the dark 
room. At scarcely any time during the seven months of the exposition was 
the visitor unable to find large sun-spots, or groujis of spots, on this image. 
Another portion of the beam of light was i-eflected by a series of mirrors to a 
grating of speculum metal, which in tui'u threw a brilliant solar spectrum 
around the east and south walls of the dark room. To make this exhibit more 
intelligible to the imblic, a descriptive illustrated pami)hlet, written by the 
director, was distributed gratuitously to those desiring copies. 

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK. 

At previous expositions the exhibit of the National Zoological Park has con- 
sisted of pictures of the buildings and j)addocks in the park, with the addition, 
usually, of a small model of the park itself. It was felt that such a representa- 
tion of this liureau at the St. fiouis lOxposition would be inadequate, and, after 
a careful consideration of possibilities, an extensive exhibit of birds, placed in 
a cage large enough to permit them to !ly ;ii)()ut, wa-< decided upon. The cage 
was 228 feet long, 84 feet wide, and 50 feet high, and was erected by the Super- 
\ising Architect of the Treasury Department at the request of the representa- 
tive of the Institution from the appropriation for Government buildings, at a 
cost of about ,$17,500. This cage, which was designed by the superintendent of 
the i)ark, was i)robably the largest of its kind ever built. It was traversed by 
;i central arched i)assageway, open to the public, extending the entire length of 
Ihe cage. As already mentioned, the cage was situated 100 or 200 yards south 
of the main building, in a sniall valley, amid trees, several of which were in- 
closed by the cage. It was divided into two portions by a longitudinal parti- 
tion. In the north half were confined the larger birds, among which were 
gulls, three species of wild geese, trumpeter swans, Cuban flamingos, roseate 
spoonbills, four species of ibis. (hi'e(> sjiecies of heron, demoiselle cranes, white 
pelicans, browu pelicans, Enr(»i)eau pelicans, and other birds, such as darters. 



KKI'OKT OF THE flEORKTARY. 1 OB 

cornioraiils. curiissows. ami \ iiltiirt's. In the sovitli half of llic ca^^c wcra 
placed the siualliT birds, such as quails, partridjies. doves, ducks, canaries. 
Englisli blackbirds, .jays, thiaishes. Jav.an sparrows, bulltinches, iioidfniches, 
weaver birds, linnets, cardinals, orioles, etc. The exhibit of the National 
Zoological Park proved one of the most attractive in the exposition grounds, 
and was surrounded by visitors at all tinn's during the day. The exhibit re- 
quired the constaid attention of two men. The records show that the large 
fish-eating birds consumed an average daily amount of 40 pounds of fish and H 
pounds of eho]>ped me.il. while for the smaller birds large (piantities of fresh 
vegetables, grains, and other seeds wei'e re(iuired. 

HUUK.Mi OF INTKKNATIONAL E.\CH.\NGKS. 

It will be appreciated that the work of the Bureau of International Exchanges 
does not lend itself to exhibition by material objects. The exhibit at St. Louis 
consisted of a large chart showing the number of packages transuutted each 
year from the establishment of the bureau to the present time. There were also 
shown photographs of the offices of the bureau in the Smithsonian building. In 
order to explaiu more fully the functions and operations of the bureau a small 
descriptive pamphlet was prepared, co])ies of which were given to those desiring 
them. 

THE BUREAi; OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY. 

The exhibit of the Bureau of American Ethnology was for the most part 
incorporated with that of the department of anthroi)ology of the United States 
National Museum, both of which were under the direction of Mr. W. H. Holmes, 
chief of the bureau. This exhibit was chiefly illustrative of the symbolic art, 
decorative designs, and heraldry of the American Indians, and represented the 
researches of the ethnologists of the bureau. Included with it was a series of 
objects representing the archiPology of the West Indies. These exhibits were 
installed in recesses in the front wall of the Snuthsoniau pavilion, in a portion 
of the south wall case, and in two large floor cases. Further notice of this 
exhibit and of the .special significance of the various objects shown will be found 
on pages 47 to 49 of this report. A considerable amount of field-work was done 
in this connection by Messrs. Fewkes, Swanton, and Mooney, and Mrs. Steven- 
son, ethnologists of the bureau, notice of which will be found in the place 
mentioned. 

TKE NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

As at all previous expositions, the largest display was made by the National 
Museum, owing to its special function and its opportunities for making large 
exhibits. The floor-s[)ace not occupied l)y the bureaus already nieiitinned was 
roughly divided into three portions, one devoted to each of the three executive 
departments of the Museum — namely, anthropology. l»iology, and geology. 

The Department of Anlhropolofuj. — This exhibit was planned by Mr. W. H. 
Holmes, chief of the Bureau of Ethnology, assisted by the curators of the 
department of anthropology. The main theme of this exhibit was the esthetic 
achievements of the native American i)e<»ples. In conjunction therewith, some 
of the works of art of ancient civilizations of the Old World were shown. 

The carvings of the American Indians were represented by such objects as 
stone and wooden masks, carved boxes, benches, horns, weapons, etc. These 
were installe<l in a special black floor-case. The larger carvings included four 
house-panels of the Tlinkit Indians and two large house-posts of the Haida 
Indians. The former were placed on the wall aud the latter ou the floor. To 



1U4 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

these were added two large totem poles, which, owing to lack of space, as well 
as on account of their large size, were set up out-of-doors, in front of the Indian 
school building, at the opposite end of the exposition grounds. 

The exhibit of textile arts represented the work of tribes of the Northwest, 
those of the Pueblo region, and the Indians of Central and South America. 
Among the latter were examples of the beautiful woven garments found in the 
ancient cemetery at Ancon, Peru. In a portion of one of the cases containing 
the textile arts were specimens "of the closely-related feather work of the Ameri- 
can Indians, comprising headdresses, wristbands, and other ornaments. This 
exhibit was installed in two special floor-cases. 

The ceramic art was represented by various pieces of pottery of the Indians 
of North, Central, and South America, which were displayed in a special floor 
case, while around the top of the Smithsonian pavilion and the top of that part 
of the wall cases devoted to the Bureau of American Ethnology were placed as 
decorative objects 29 specimens of Indian pottery. 

Another special case was devoted to the basketry of various Indian tribes 
and contained about 50 baskets of different forms and patterns. 

A special floor-case contained objects representing the sculpture of the Ameri- 
can Indians, such as idols, yokes, carved animals, tablets, weapons, celts, 
metates, pipes, etc. Other objects of .sculpture, placed on separate pedestals, 
were a cast of a colossal figux'e of an Aztec deity from the ancient City of 
Mexico, a cast of a statue of .a Mayan deity from the ruined city of Quirigua, 
Guatemala, and a cast of an ancient statue from Costa Rica. A sculptured 
altar-panel from an ancient Mayan temple and ceremonial subjects in relief 
from a temple at Menche, Mexico, were placed on large screens. 

The architecture of the American Indians was represented by complete resto- 
rations, on a reduced scale, of five of the ruined temples of the Aztecs of Mexico, 
namely, the Temple of Xochicaleo at Morales, the " Temple of the Cross " at 
Palenque, the " House of the Governor " at Uxmal, the " Temple of the Col- 
umns " at Mitla, and the " Castle" at Chichen-Itza, each placed on a large sepa- 
rate pedestal. These temples were arranged in a group in the center of the 
sjiace of the department of anthropology. They were built under the imme- 
diate direction of Mr. W. H. Holmes by Delancy Gill, architect, and Messrs. 
H. W. Hendley and W. H. Gill, sculptors. On two large screens near tliese tem- 
ples were hung i)hotograi)hs and drawings of the ruined cities in which the 
originals of these buildings were found. 

In the section assigned to anthropology was exhibited an historical collection 
made by the Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution, whose 
archives and collections are, by pro\ision of law, deposited in the Snjithsonian 
Institution. A picture of the Continental Hall now being erected in Washington, 
and iwrtraits of the presidents-general of the society were also shown, together 
with a small series of objects of historical interest belonging to the Society of 
the Children of the American Revolution. A portrait of Baron von Closen was 
also exhibited. 

Department of Biology. — The exhibit of this Department was planned by Dr. 
F. W. True, head curator, assisted by Mr. F. A. Lucas and others of the 
Museum etaflf. While illustrating the methods of preparing, arranging, install- 
ing, and labeling zoological collections employed in the National Museum, it was 
designed al.so with a view of displaying some of the largest, most striking, and 
most beautiful forms of animal life now existing. On account of the character 
of the exiK.silion, the exhibit was given a world-wide scope. Many objects were 
taken from tlie i)erHianent exhibition-series, and others obtained and preijared 
especially for this exhibit, Botanical exhibits were omitted for the reason that 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. 



Plate XII. 




M:,im^H!mKmm?3!f9&M 



ASIROPfnSICALOBSERVATORr 






fg^^ 



Entrance to St. Louis Exhibit of the Astrophysical Observatory, Showing 
Transparencies of the Total Eclipse of the Sun as Observed at Wades- 
BORO, N. C, 1900. 



KKl'OKT OF THK SECTKTARY. 105 

the botanical division of the departnient consists at present practically only of 
an herbiiriuni, the ((iliections of which it was thoneht could not be made iiiter- 
estinir to the j,'en*n'al public. 

The most striking; feature of the exhibit at St. Louis was the cast of ;i sul)»hnr- 
bottom whale, the largest known animal. This large piece was suspended over 
the central aisle of the Museum space. Placed on the floor near it, was a 
skeleton of the same sjjecies. The cast was obtained through the courtesy of 
the Cabot Steam Whaling Company, and the skeleton by gift from the Colonial 
Manufacturing Company, at Balena, Hermitage Bay, Newfoundland, by Messrs. 
F. A. Lucas. William Palmei', and J. W. Scolllck, who made a special expedition 
to Newfoundland in the spring of 11)04 to secure the material. 

Another prominent feature of the exhibit of this department com])rised a 
group of 20 game mannnals from all parts of the world, namely : From North 
America, a black bear, a polar bear, an Alaska moose, a Mexican sheep, a (Green- 
land nuisk-ox, a specimen of Osborn's caril»on, and an Olympic elk; from Africa, 
a giraffe, a zebra, a two-horned rhinoceros, a white-tailed gnu, a hii)poi)otanius, 
and a lion; from Asia, a tiger, a sambar stag, a specimen of Marco Polo's 
sheep, an axis deer ; from Europe, a chamois, a moufflon or wild sb^ep, and a 
Norway elk. Each was i)laced on a separate pedestal and the whole group 
inclosed by brass railing. 

A small but very popular part of the exhibit of the department was a select 
collection of birds' eggs, installed in two special table-cases. In one was a 
series showing variations in size, form, color, and texture, and in the number 
laid at one time. Among these eggs was one of Epyoiitis maxim its, an extinct 
bird of Madagascar, whose eggs are the largest known. By a fortunate coin- 
cidence, an opportunity occurred to purchase a remarkably fine example for 
addition to this series. Other interesting eggs in this case were those of the 
apteryx. the great auk, three species of ostrich, several species of tinamou, and 
the ruby-throated hummingbird. In the second case was placed a very complete 
collection of the eggs of North American birds of prey. 

The main exhibit of birds was installed in four 80-inch screen-cases, and con- 
sisted of a series of pheasants especially noteworthy for the brilliancy of their 
plumage, such as Lady .Vmherst's pheasant, fire-back pheasants, tragopans, etc. 
Three species of peafowl were inchided in this series, each represented by a male 
and a female. Among the other birds exhibited was a pair of the rare and 
curious Harris's cormorant, from the Galapagos Islands, a species incapable of 
flight owing to its dwarfed wings and to the soft, flexible nature of the ])rimary 
feathers. Installed in a special floor case was ;i group of hoaczins. Oiti.stho- 
comuH hoaczin, showing the life-history of the species. This material of group 
consisted of 4 adults, 3 nestlings. 2 h.-ilf-grown young, 2 nests, 2 eggs, together 
with bushes and other accessories, ;iiid was specially collected for exhibition at 
St. Louis. The young of this singular bird possess well-developed claws on the 
first and second digits of the wing, by means of which they climb from branch 
to branch with comparative ease. 

Reptiles were represented by mounted specimens of the American crocodile 
and alligator, which were placed near one another, so that the differences 
between these two largest of American leptiles could be readily seen. In addi- 
tion, two si)ecial cases of snakes were exhibited ; one contained a reticulated 
python, probably the largest species of snake in existence, and the other a small 
series of especially noteworthy poisonous and harndess snakes, such as the 
cobra, the rattlesnake, the harlequin snake, and the king snake. 

A unique exhibit of unusual significance and interest consisted of a series of 
'models of deep-sea fishes, installed in two short sections of the wall-case. 



106 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Tliese nioflels wore hnspd oliiefiy on specimens in the National Museum, from 
tlie rich collections of the V. S. Fish Conmiission steamer Albatruss. Owing to 
the small size of the originals, it was necessary to enlarge the models so that 
the extraordinary modifications and fantastic appearance of these inhabitants 
of the deep-sea could be appre<Mated by the iiuMic Accompanying this series 
was a diagram showing the great depths at which these peculiar forms are 
found, in comparison with the other fishes of the sea. The following species 
were represented: Deep-sea chinjjera (Haniotta rulcifihana) , hatchet tish 
(Strrnoi)t!/.t diaphaiKt), rag fish (Acrotus irilloiifilibi/i) , pelican fish (Odxtrox- 
loimts huirdii), snipe eel (\riiiichth!j:< scolopaccus), lesser angler (Vryptopsara.^ 
couf.sii), viper fish (Chaiiliodus sJoani), BathyptrroiN quadri fills, great .swal- 
lower (ChiasvK'do)! uifjer), deep sea gurnai-d {PeriKtrdlon mhiiatum). and 'the 
sijecies Cuulolepis loiiffidens. M a J a cost <■ us choristodactiiliis, and Malacosteus 
niger. 

Invertebrates were represented by two series of specimens, installed in stand- 
ard Museum unit boxes, arranged in frames along the wall. The first was a syn. 
optic series of invertebrates displaying the principal groups, the more imi>ortant 
forms in each group, their structure, and, so far as possible, important or inter- 
fsting features in their life histories. This series was designed especially to show 
methods of Museum installation. In two sections of the wall case near this 
series was a si)ecial display of fan corals, and another of crabs. The second 
principal series of invertebrates consisted of about 500 species of butterflies and 
moths from all parts of the world, selected with special reference to beauty or 
singularity of color and markings or large size. Each species was represented 
by a pair of specimens, making about 1,000 in all. The specimens were I'emark- 
able for their perfection, and the whole series was. as might be imagined, hardly 
to be surpassed in brilliancy. 

Depaitinctit of Geology. — The exhibit of this department was planned by Dr. 
(Jeorge P. Merrill, head curator, assisted by members of his staff, and embraced 
tour main groups: First, an exhibit of minerals; second, one of meteorites; 
third, of invertebrate fossils, and, fourth, of vertebrate fossils. 

(1) A systematic series of minerals was installed in eight standard 15-inch 
Museum cases. This series was remarkably complete, and the various species 
were represented by specimens of the largest size. A complete and paiticiilarly 
fine series of all the known forms of silica occurring in nature was sho« n in a 
special 3(j-inch screen case. This included examples of agates, jasper, wood- 
opal, etc. In a c<mipanion case was exhibited a similar series compiising all 
the known natural forms of calcium carbonate, such as Iceland spar and other 
calcites, stalagmites, limestone, pearls, etc. In proximity to the silica exhibit 
was displayed one of the largest masses of amethyst crystals known, and a 
giant quartz crystal. The amethyst crystals weighed about a quarter of a ton. 
Another mineral exhibit consisted of a series of cones from hot springs, showing 
the deposit of crystals on the interior. 

(2) Meteorites: Special pains were taken to assemble an exhibit of meteor- 
ites worthy of the occasion. To this end endeavors were made to obtain 
representations of the largest known examples. Through the courtesy of Com- 
mander R. E. Perry. IT. S. N.. casts were secured of the three great masses from 
Greenland, known as the " Peary meteorites," and with the concurrence of the 
Mexican (Jovernment and the friendly assistance of Jose G. Aguilera a cast of 
the Bacubirito meteorite was also secvu'ed. A special trii)"to Mexico for the pur- 
pose of obtaining a mold was luidertaken by Dr. George 1*. Merrill and Mr. Wil- 
liam Palmer, with entirely satisfactory results. A cast was also made of the 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. 



Plate XIII. 




St. Louib Exhibit of the National Zoological Park, Showing Central Arched 
Passage in the Great Bird Cage. 



Smithsonian Report, 1&04. 



Plate. XIV. 




St. Louis Exhibit of the Bureau of Exchanges. 

Photographs. 



A Statistical Chart and 



RKl'ORT OF THE SKCKKTAKV. 107 

Invin-Ainsn or Tucson niotoorito. in tlip National IMusonin. Tltoso Rivat oasts, 
wliifli include ri'pivst'ntations of the larjjcst masses which arc known to have 
fallon from the sky. were assembled near the rotiuida of the building, and pre- 
sented a most imi)ressive appearance. Adjacent !<• the casts was installed <i 
series of actual specimens of meteorites and sections of siiecimens. and a chart 
sliowins the distribution of known niet(>()i-ic falls, and pictures of falling 
meteorites. 

(3) Vertebrate fossils: The most popular feature of this exhibit was the life- 
size restoration of an armored dinosaur, known as Strt/iisuiirKs iiiHiuldliis', 
based on remains from Colorado and Wyoming. The skeleton of the horned 
dinosaur. Tricrratoits, previously exhibited at Hnffalo and Charleston, was also 
shown at St. Louis. Standing side by side, in order to show their similarity in 
size and details of structure, were exhibited the skeleton of .ni .American mas- 
todon and that of an African elephant. The skeleton and the cast ot an egg 
of one of the UKtas (extinct birds' from New Zealand) were exhibited in a special 
case. Other vertebrate fossils were represented by sitecimens on the slabs of 
stone in which they were found, embracing fossil fishes, fossil fish-like and 
crocodile-like reptiles, as well as a very complete siieelmen of the remarkable 
flying reptile, Rhami>hoihiinvluix. which shows the impress of the wing and 
tail membranes in the rock. 

(4) Invertebrate fossils: These were installed in a section of the wall-case, 
and comprised cephalopod and other mollusks, including a fine series of ammon- 
ites, and crustaceans, crinoids, echinodernis, and corals. 

(5) Fossil palm : An opportunity to obtain an exceptionally fine Tertiary 
fossil palm, TAitauites viceiitinu>i, having occurred during the itreparations for 
the exposition, the specimen was ]»urchased and added to the geological exhibit. 
It was obtained in Monte Bolka. i)ro\ince of Verona, Italy. 

Dr. F. W. True, representative for the Institution and Museum on the Gov- 
ernment board, was also chairman of the conmiittee on installation and decora- 
tion. Dr. M. W. Lyon, jr., was chief si)eclal agent. 

SUMMARY OF ALLOTMENT MADE TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION AND 
NATIONAL MUSEUM. 

Original allotment iflld, (M»(». ()(» 

'J'ransfer to general fund for expenses of United States Marine 

Band at exposition .SCO. 00 

Net allotment 109, 700. 00 

Classified statement of expenditures (if funds ailotted to the l^mith- 
sonian Institution, corrected to January 26, 1905. 

Services of clerks, mechanics, and laborers and care of exhibits $1.S. S^C. (>!) 

Transportation of persons ^ 3, 803. 13 

Per diems in lieu of subsistence 7,004.50 

Freight, cartage, and exp/vssage 3, 2n2. 43 

Cases, including all material, and supplies and labor 15,920.20 

Packing materials 1, 489. 72 

Miscellaneous supplies (stationei'y. office furniture, janitors' sup- 
plies, etc.) ^ 1,802.50 

Labels (including printing three descriptive pamphlets and painting 

laliels for the exhibit of the National Zoological Park) 2,398.03 

Rent of shop and construction of shelter for whale cast 655. 19 



108 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 

Specimens and construction of exhibits, including materials, services, 
field expenses, etc. : 

r. S. National Museum — 

Department of Anthropology .$12,847.56 

Department of Biology 19,819.95 

Department of Geology 12,500.94 

$45, 1(58. 45 

Other bureaus of the Institution, including supplies 
and salaries of keepers for exhibit of National 

Zoological Park 9, 249. 03 

,$54, 417. 48 

Total expenditure 105,269. m 

ITuexpended balance 4,430. 07 

Net allotment 1 — - 109,700.00 

Respectfully submitted. 

F. W. True, 
' Representutire, Sitiithsonian Institution iind United Htates 

National Mnseuni, Louisiana Purchase Exposition. 
Mr. S. P. Langley, 

Secretari/ of the Smithsonian Institution. 
January 26, 1905. 



GENERAL APPENDIX 



SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1904. 



109 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



The object of the (teneral Appendix to tlie Aiinmil Report of the 
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis- 
covery in particuhir directions; reports of investigations made by 
coHaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character 
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous 
correspondents of the Institution. 

It has l)een a pronunent object of the Board of Regents of the 
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date, to enrich the annual 
report required of them by law Avith memoirs illustrating the more 
remarkaV)le and important developments in physical and biological 
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations 
of the Institution ; and this purpose has, during the greater part of its 
history, been carried out largely by the publication of such papers as 
would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress. 

In 1880 the Secretary, induced in part by the discontinuance of an 
annual sunnnary of progress which for thirty years previous had been 
issued by well-known private publishing firms, had prepared by com- 
petent collaborators a series of abstracts, showing concisely the prom- 
inent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology, 
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and 
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether 
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888. 

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of 
presenting a miscellaneous selection of pages (some of them original) 
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus- 
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1901. 

Ill 



EXPERIMENTS Wnil THE LANdLEY AERODROME. 



By S. P. Langley. 



The experiments undertaken by the Smithsonian Institution upon 
an aerodrome, or flying machine, capable of carrj'ing a man have 
l)een suspended from hick of funds to repair defects in the launching 
apparatus without the machine ever having been in the air at all. As 
these experiments have been popularly, and of late repeatedly, rep- 
resented as having failed on the contrary, because the aerodrome could 
not. sustain itself in the air I have decided to give this brief though 
late account, which maj^ be acce])ted as the first authoritative state- 
ment of them. 

It will be remembered that in 189() wholly successful flights of 
between one-half and one mile by large steam-driven models, unsup- 
ported except by the mechanical effects of steam engines, had 
been made by me. In all these the machine was fli-st launched into 
the air from " Avays,*' somewhat as a ship is launched into the 
water, the machine resting on a car that ran forward on these ways, 
which fell down at the extremity of the car's motion, releasing the 
aerodrome for its free flight. I mention these details because they 
are essential to an understanding of what follows, and partly because 
their success led me to undertake the experiments on a much larger 
scale I now describe. 

In the early part of 1898 a board, composed of officers of the 
Army and Xavy, was appointed to investigate these past experi- 
ments with a view to determining just what had been accomplished 
and what the possibilities were of developing a large-size man- 
carrying machine for war i^urposes. The report of this board being 
favorable, the Board of Ordnance and Fortification of the War 
Department decided to take up the matter, and I having agreed to 
give without compensation what time I could spare from official 
duties, the Board allotted $50,000 for the development, construction, 
and test of a large aerodrome, half of which sum was to be available 
immediately and the remainder when required. The whole matter 
had previously been laid before the Board of Regents of the Smith- 
sonian Institution, who had authorized me to take up the work and 

SM 1904 8 113 



114 EXPERIMENTS WITH THE LANGLEY AERODROME. 

to use in coiiiu'ctioii with it such fiu-ilities of the Institution as were 
iivaihihle. 

Before consent in<,^ to undertake the construction of this large 
machine, I had fully appreciated that owing to theoretical considera- 
tions, into which I do not enter, it would need to be relatively 
lighter than the smaller one; and later it Avas so constructed, each 
foot of sustaining surface in the large machine carrying nearly the 
same weight as each foot in the model. The difficulties subsequently 
experienced Avith the larger machine were, then, due not to this 
cause, but to practical obstacles connected with the launching, and the 
like. 

I had also fully appreciated the fact that one of the chi(>f difficul- 
ties in its construction w^ould lie in the procuring of a suitable engine 
of sufficient power and, at the same time, one which was light enough. 
(The models had been driven by steam engines wdiose water supply 
Aveighed too much for very long flights.) The construction of the 
steam engine is w-ell understood, but now- it Avould become necessary 
to replace this by gas engines, Avhich for this purpose involve novel 
difficulties. I resolved not to attempt the task of constructing the 
engine myself, and had accordingly- entered into negotiations with 
the best engine builders in this country, and after long delay had 
finally secured a contract with a builder who, of all persons engaged 
in such Avork, seemed most likely to achicA^e success. It Avas only 
after this contract for the engine had been signed that I felt Avilling 
to formally undertake the Avork of building the aerodrome. 

The contract Avith the engine builder called for an engine dcA-eloping 
12 brake horsepoAver, and Aveighing not more than 100 pounds, includ- 
ing cooling A\^ater and all other accessories, and Avith the proviso that 
a second engine, exactly like this first one, w-ould be furnished on the 
same terms. The first engine w^as to be delivered before the close 
of February, 1890, and the frame of the aerodrome with sustaining- 
surfaces, propellers, shafting, rudders, etc., Avas immediately planned, 
and noAv that the engine Avas believed to be secured, their actual con- 
struction Avas pushed Avith the utmost speed. The previous experi- 
ments with steam-driven models, Avhich had been so successful, had 
been conducted oA^er the Avater, using a small house-boat having a cabin 
for storing the machine, appliances and tools, on toj) of Avhich Avas 
mounted a track and car for use in launching. As full success in 
hiunching these Avorking models had been achieved after several 
years spent in devising, testing and improving this plan, I decided 
to folloAv the same method Avith the large machine, and accordingly 
designed and had built a house-boat, in Avhich the machine could not 
only be stored, but Avhich Avould also furnish space for Avorkshops, 
and on the top of Avhich Avas mounted a turntable and track for use 
in launching from Avhatever direction the Avind migrht come. 



EXPliRIMENTS WITH THE LANOLFY AERODROME. 115 

Everytliin«»- coniu'ctt'd with tli(> work wns cxpcditc'd m^ imicli as 
possible with the cxpcclatioii of Iumii"; al)l(' to have tlu' lirst trial 
flight before the close of iSDi), and time and money ha<l been spent 
on the aerodrome, which was ready, except for its engine, when the. 
time for the delivery of this an-ived. Hnt now the bnilder proved 
nnable to complete his contract, and, after months of delay, it was 
necessary to decrease the force at work on the machine proper and 
its launching appliances until some assurance could be had of the 
flnal success of the engine. During the spring and summer of 1899. 
while these delays were being experienced in procuring suitable 
engines, former experiments on superposed wing surfaces were con- 
tinued, time was found for overhauling the two steam-driven models 
which had been used in 1896, and the small house boat was rebuilt 
so that further tests of these small machines might be made in order 
to study the effect of various changes in the balancing and the 
steering, equilibrium preserving and sustaining appliances, and the 
months of June. July, and a portion of August were spent in actual 
tests of these machines in free flight. 

A new launching apparatus following the general plan of the 
former overhead one, but w4th the track underneath it, Avas built 
for the models, and it was used most successfully in these experi- 
ments, more than a dozen flights in succession being made with it, 
while in every case it Avorked without delay or accident. As soon 
as these tests with the models on this underneath launching apparatus 
were completed, that for the large machine was built as an exact 
duplicate, except for the enlargement, and w^ith some natural con- 
fidence that what had Avorked so perfectly on a small scale Avould 
Avork fairly on a large one. 

It AA^as recognized from the A^ery beginning that it Avould be desir- 
able in a large machine to use " superposed " sustaining surfaces 
(that is, Avith one Aving aboA'e another) on account of their supe- 
riority so far as the relation of strength to Aveight is concerned, 
and from their independence of guy Aviring; and tAvo sets of 
superposed sustaining surfaces of different patterns Avere built and 
experimented Avith in the early tests. These surfaces proA^ed, on the 
Avhole, inferior in lifting poAver, though among comjoensating ad- 
vantages are the strength of a "" bridge " construction which dis- 
lienses Avith guy Avires coming up from behnv, Avhicli, in fact, later 
Avere the cause of disaster in the launching. 

It was finally decided to folloAv what experiment had shoAvn to be 
successful, and to construct the sustaining surfaces for the large 
machine after the " single-tier " plan. This proA^ed to be no easy 
task, since in the construction of the surfaces for the small machines 
tlie main and cross ribs of the framework had been made solid, and, 
after steaming, bent and dried to the proper curvature, Avhile it Avas 



116 expp:riments with the langley aerodrome. 

obvious that this phui coiihl jiot be followed in the large surfaces on 
account of the necessity, already alluded to, of making them rela- 
tively lighter than the small ones, which were already very light. 
After the most painstaking construction, and tests of various sizes 
and thicknesses of hollow square, hollow round, I-l)eam, channel, and 
njany other types of ribs, I finally devised a tyi)e which consisted of 
a hollow box form, having its sides of tapering thickness, with the 
thickest part at the point midwaj' betAveen contiguous sides and with 
small partitions placed inside every few inches in somewhat the same 
way that nature places them in the bamboo. These various parts 
of the rib (corresponding to the quill in a wing) were then glued and 
clamped together, and after drying were reduced to the proper 
dimensions and the ribs covered with several coats of a special marine 
varnish, wdiich it had been found protected the glued joints from 
softening, even when they were immersed in water for twenty-four 
hours. 

Comparative measurements were made between these large cross 
ribs, 11 feet long, and a large quill from the wing of a harpy eagle, 
which is proljabl}" one of the greatest wonders that nature has pro- 
duced in the way of strength for weight. These measurements 
show^ed that the large, 11-foot ribs ('' quills ") for the sustaining sur- 
faces of the large nuichine Avere equally as strong, Aveight for Aveight, 
as the quill of the eagle; but much time Avas consumed in various con- 
structions and tests before such a result was finally ol)tained. 

During this time a model of the large machine, one-fourth of its 
linear dimensions, w-as constructed, and a second contract Avas made 
for an engine for it. The delay with the large engine Avas repeated 
with the small one, and in the spring of 1900 it Avas found that both 
contract engines Avero failures for the purpose for which they Avere 
intended, as neither one dcA^eloped half of the poAver required for the 
allotted weight. 

I accordingly again searched all OA'er this country, and, finally, ac- 
companied by an engineer (Mr. Manly), Avhose services I had engaged, 
went to Europe, and there personally visited large builders of engines 
for automobiles, and attempted to get them to undertake the construc- 
tion of such an engine as Avas required. This search, hoAvcA^er, was 
fruitless, as all of the foreign builders, as Avell as those of this country, 
believed it impossible to construct an engine of the necessary poAver 
and as light as I required (less than 10 pounds to the horsepoAver 
Avithout fuel or water). I Avas therefore forced to return to this 
country and to consent most reluctantly, even at this late date, to 
have the work of constructing suitable engines undertaken in the 
shops of the Smithsonian Institution, since, as I have explained, the 
aerodrome frame and wings were already constructed. This Avork 
upon the engines began here in August, 1900, in the immediate care 



EXPERIMENTS WITH THK LANOLEY AKRoDKoMK. 117 

of ]\rr. TNfnnly. These engines wer(> to he of nearly double (lie power 
first estimated and of little more weight, hut this increased jjowcr and 
the strain caused by it demanded a renewal of the frame as first built, 
in a stronger and conseciiiently in a li(>avier form, and tlie following 
sixteen months were spent in such a reconstruction simultaneously 
with the work on the engines. 

The flying weight of the machine complete, with that of the 
aeronaut.' was 8;iO j)ounds: its sustaining sui-face, 1,040 srpiare feet. 
It therefore was provided with slight!}^ greater sustaining surface 
and materially gi-eater relative horsepower than the model subse- 
quently described which flew successfully. The brake horsepower 
of the engine was 52; the engine itself, Avithout cooling water, or 
fuel, weighed approximately 1 kilogram to the horsepower. The en- 
tire power plant, including cooling water, carburetor, battery, etc.. 
weighed materially less than 5 pounds to the horsepower. Engines 
for both the large machine and the quarter-size model were completed 
before the close of 1901, and they were immediately put in their 
respective frames and tests of them and their power-transmission 
appliances were begun. 

It is well here to call attention to the fact that although an engine 
may develop sufficient ])Ower for the allotted weight, yet it is not at 
iill certain that it will be suitable for use on a machine which is 
necessarily as light as one for traversing tlie air, for it would be 
impossible to use, for instance, a single cjdinder gasoline engine in a 
flying machine unless it had connected to it prohibitively heavy fly- 
wheels. These facts being recognized, the engines built in the Smith- 
sonian shops were provided w^ith five cylinders, and it was found 
upon test that the turning effect received from them was most uniform, 
and that, by suitable balancing of rotating and reci]:)rocaling [)arts, 
they could be made to work so that there was practically no vibration, 
even when used in the very light frames of the aerodromes. 

The engine is not all the apparatus connected with the development 
and delivery of power, for obviously (here must l)e shafts, bearings, 
and in the present case there were also gears; and all of these parts 
must necessarily be phenomenally light, while all of the materials 
must be capable of withstanding repeated and constant strains fur 
bej'ond their elastic limit. It is also evident to anyone having famil- 
iarity with such constructions that it is most difficult to keep the 
various bearings, shafts, gears, etc.. in j^rojK'r alignment without 
adding excessive weight, and also that when these various parts once 
get out of alignment Avhen subject to strain, the disasters which are 
caused render them unfit for further use. 

The engines themselves were successful!}^ completed before the close 
of 1901, and were of much more power than those originally designed: 
but nearly a year and a half had been spent not only in their comple- 



118 EXPERIMENTS WITH THE LANGLEY AERODROME. 

tioii, but in properly coordinating the various parts of the frame 
carrying thcni. repairing the various breakages, assembling, dis- 
mounting, and reassembling the various parts of the appliances, and 
in general relniilding the frame and ap})urtenances to correspond in 
strength to the new engines. 

There are innumerable other details, for the whole question is one 
of details. I may, however, particularly mention the carburetors, 
which form an essential part of every gas engine, and such giving 
fair satisfaction for use in automobiles were on the market at the 
time, yet all of them failed to properly generate gas when used in 
the tests of the engine working in the aerodrome frame, chiefly 
because of the fact that the movement of the engine in this light 
frame must be constant and regular or the transmission appliances 
are certain of distortion. It was, therefore, necessary to devise car- 
buretors for the aerodrome engines which would meet the required 
conditions, and more than half a dozen were constructed which were 
in advance of anything then on the market, and yet were not good 
enough to use in the aerodrome, before a satisfactory one was made. 
These experiments were made in the shop, but with an imitation of 
all the disturbing influences which would be met witli in the actual 
use of the machine in the air, so as to make certain, as far as possible, 
that the first test of the machine in free flight would not be marred 
by mishaps or unseen contingencies in connection with the genera- 
tion and use of power. 

It is impossible for anyone who has not had experience with such 
matters to appreciate the great amount of delay which experience 
has shown is to be expected in such experiments. Only in the spring 
of 1903, and after two unforeseen years of assiduous labor, were 
these new engines and their appurtenances, weighing altogether less 
than 5 pounds to the horsepower and far lighter than an}^ known to 
be then existing, so coordinated and adjusted that successive shop 
tests could be made without causing injury to the frame, its bearings, 
shafts, or propellers. 

And now everything seemed to be as nearly ready for an experi- 
ment us could be, until the aerodrome was at the location at Avhich 
the' experiments were to take place. The large machine and its 
quarter-size counterpart were accordingly placed on board the lai-ge 
house boat, which had been completed some time before and had been 
kept in Washington as an auxiliary shop for use in the construction 
work, and the whole outfit was towed to a point in the Potomac 
River, here 3 miles wide, directly ojDposite Widewater, Va., and 
about 40 miles below Washington and midway between the Mary- 
land and Virginia shores, where the boat was made fast to moorings 
which had previously been placed in readiness for it. 

Although extreme delays had already occurred, yet they were not 



I 



EXPERIMENTS WITH THE LANOLKY AERODROME. 119 

SO trying as the ones which hopui ininicdiatcly nftci' the woi-k was 
thus ti;ansferiv(l to the h)wer Potomac. 

Tlie object in constructing the quarter-size counterpart of the 
hirge machine was to duplicate in it the bahinciuii- and rehitive pro- 
portions of power, surface, etc., that had been arranged in the hirge 
one, so that a test of it might he made which wouhl determine 
whether the hu'ge machine should he tried as ari'anged or the bal- 
ancing and other ari-angements modified. The huinching appa- 
ratus, which had proved so eminently successful with the original 
steam-driven models in ISDC, was considered a thing so well tested 
that it had, as I ha\'e stated, been duplicated on a suitable scale for 
use with the large aerodrome, and it was felt that if this apparatus 
were exactly similar to the smaller one it would be the one appliance 
least likely to mar the experiments. 

In order to test the quarter-size model it was necessary to remove 
its launching track tVom the top of the small house boat and place it 
upon the deck of the large boat, in order to have all the work go on 
at one place, as it was impossible, on account of its unseaworthiness, 
to moor the small house boat in the middle of the river. 

While this transfer of the launching apparatus from the small 
boat to the large one was being made, the changed atmospheric con- 
ditions incident to a large body of Avater over which thick fogs hung 
a great portion of the time, from those of a well-protected shop on 
the land, began to manifest themselves in such ways as the rusting of 
the metal parts and fittings, and the consequent disarrangement of 
the adjustment of the necessarily very accurate pieces of apparatus 
connected with the ignition system of the engine. These difficulties 
might have partly been anticipated, but there were others concerning 
which the cause of the deterioration and disarrangement of certain 
parts and adjustments was not immediately detected, and conse- 
quently when short preliminary shoj) tests of the small machine were 
attempted just prior to launching it, it was found that the apparatus 
did not work properly, necessitating repairs and new constructions 
and consequent delay.' Although the large house boat with the entire 
outfit had been moved down the river on July U, 1903, it was not 
until the 8th of August that the test of the (juarter-size model was 
made, and all of this delay was directly due to changed atmospheric 
conditions incident to the change in locality. This test of the nu)del 
in actual ilighl was made on the 8th of August, 1903, when it worked 
most satisfactorily, the launching a[)paratus, as always heretofore, 
performing perfectly, while the model, being launched -lirectly into 
the face of the wind, flew directly ahead on an even keel. The bal- 
mcing proved to be perfect, and the power, supporting surface, 
o-uiding, and equilibrium-preserving etl'ects of the rudder also. The 



120 EXPERIMENTS WITH THE LANGLEY AERODROME. 

weight of the model was 58 pounds, its sustaining surface fiG square 
feet, and the horsepoAver from 2J to 3. 

This was the first time in history, so far as I know, that a success- 
ful flight of a mechanically sustained flying machine was made in 
public. 

The flight was not as long as had been expected, as it was found 
afterAvards that one of the workmen, in his zeal to insure an especially 
good one, had OA'erfilled the gasoline tank, which would otherwise 
have enabled a flight several times as long. However, as such a 
flight would have given absolutely no more data than the short one 
did, and as the delays in getting ready for testing the large machine 
had already far exceeded what was expected, it was thought best not 
to make any more tests with the small one, as all of the data which 
was desired had been procured, and it Avas accordingly stored away 
and every energy immediately concentrated in getting the large ma- 
chine ready for its first test, which at that time seemed only a few 
clays away. 

During all these delays it ma}^ be remarked that we necessarily 
resided near the house boat, and therefore in a region of malaria, from 
Avhose attacks a portion of us suffered. 

I have spoken of the serious delays in the test of the small macliine 
caused by changed atmospheric conditions, but they proved to be 
almost negligible compared Avith Avhat Avas later experienced Avith 
the large one. I have also alluded to the fact that the necessai-ily 
light ribs of the large sustaining Aving surfaces Avere coA^ered Avith 
several coats of a special marine varnish Avhich many tests had shoAvn 
enabled the glue to Avithstand submersion in Avater for more than 
tAventy-four hours Avithout being affected. This Avater test aa as nuide 
Avith a vieAv to guarding against the joints of the ribs being softened 
when the machine came down into the water, as it Avas i^lanned for 
it to do at the close of its flight, and these submersions had apparently 
shoAvn that no trouble need be anticipated from the effects of the 
sustaining surfaces getting Avet. It is an instance of the unpre- 
dictable delays Avhich present themseh-es, that Avhen preparations 
had been begun for the immediate trial of the large machine, already 
down the riA^er, it Avas found that every one of the cross ribs had 
been rendered almost useless by the damp, though under shelter. 
As it would take months to build ncAV ones, a temporary means of 
repairing them Avas used. There Avere other delays too numerous 
to mention, but chiefly incident to Avorking over the Avater, some of 
the principal of Avhich were due to storms dragging the house boat 
from its moorings and destroying auxiliary apparatus, such as 
hutnches, boats, rafts, etc., to say nothing of the time consumed in 
bringing Avorknien to and from the scene of the experiments. The 
propellers Avere even found to break under the strain of the actual 



EXPERIMENTS WITH THE LANGLEY AEKOUKo.MK. 121 

engines in tlie open, thonoh they liad not done so in Hie shop, and this 
is mentioned as another instance of the nnnici-oiis causes of trying 
delay whicli it \vas impossible U) foresee. 

Finally, however, on the Vh\ of Septeml)er, everything seemed to 
be in readiness for the experiments, and the large aerodrome was 
accordingly placed in position and all orders given and arrangements 
made for a test that day. After stationing the vai'ious tngs, launches, 
etc., at their predetermined positiows so that they might render any 
assistance necessary to the engineer or the aerodrome, in case it came 
down in the water at a point distant from the house boat, and after 
the photographers, with si)ccial telephoto cameras, had been sta- 
tioned on the shore in order that photographs with their trigonomet- 
i-ical data might be obtained, from which speed, distance, etc., might 
be later determined, and when everyone was anxiously expecting 
the experiment, a delay occnrred from one of the hardly predictable 
canses just mentioned in connection with the weather. An attempt 
was made to start the engine so that it might be running at its proper 
rate when the aerodrome was launched into free air after leaving 
the tra<-k. ])ut the dry batteries used for sparking the engine, together 
with the entire lot of several dozen which were on hand as a reserve, 
had become useless from the dampness. 

T have merely instanced some of these causes of failure Avhen every- 
tliing was apparently ready for the expected test, but only one who 
was on the spot and who had interest in the outcome could appre- 
ciate trials of this sort, and the delays of waiting for weather suitable 
for experiments. 

It was found that every storm Avhich came anywhere in the vicinity, 
immediately selected the river as its route of travel, and although 
a 10-mile wind on the land would not be an insurmountable obstacle 
(luring an experiment, yet the same wind on the river rendered it 
impossible to maintain the large house boat on an even keel and free 
from pitching and tossing long enough to make a test. 

AMiile speaking of the difficulties imposed by the weather, it should 
also be luiderstood that to take the aerodrome in parts from under the 
shelter of the roof and assemble and mount it upon the upper works 
was a task requiring four or five hours, and that during this time a 
change in the weather was altogether likely to occur, and did re- 
peatedly occur, sufficient to render the experiment impossible. P]xi)e- 
rience has shown, then, that the aerodrome should be sheltered by a 
building, in which it shall be at all times ready for immediate launch- 
ing. During all the delay resulting from this and other causes— 
since it was never known on what day the experiment might take 
place — a great expense for iuii boats waiting at a distance of 40 
miles from the city, was incurretl, and this was a part of the con- 



122 EXPERIMENTS WITH THE LANGLEY AERODROME. 

timioiis drain on the pecuniary resources, which proved ultnnately 
more fatal than any mishap to the apparatus itself. 

FolloAving the od of September, and after procuring new batteries, 
short preliminary tests inside the boat were made in order to make 
sure that there would be no difficulty in the running of the engine 
the next time a fair opportunity arrived for making a test of the 
machine in free flight. Something of the same troubles which had 
been met Avith in the disarrangement of the adjustments of the small 
engine was experienced in the large one, although they occurred in 
such a different way that they Avere not detected until they had caused 
damage in the tests, and these disarrangements were responsible for 
broken propellers, twisted shafts, crushed bearings, distorted frame- 
work, etc., which were not finally overcome until the 1st of October. 
After again getting everything in apparent readiness, there then 
ensued a period of waiting on the weather until the 7th of October 
(1903), when it became sufficiently quiet for a test, which I Avas noAV 
beginning to fear could not be made before the folloAving season. In 
this, the first test, the engineer took his seat, the engine started Avith 
ease and was working without vibration at its full power of oA'er 
50 horse, and the Avord being given to launch the machine, the car 
Avas released and the aerodrome sped along the track. Just as the 
machine left the track, those Avho Avere Avatching it, among whom 
Avere two representatives of the Board of Ordnance." noticed that the 
machine Avas jerked violently doAvn at the front (being caught, as 
it subsequently appeared, by the falling ways),^ and under the full 
poAvei- of its engine Avas pulled into the Avater, carrying with it its 
engineer. AMien the aerodrome rose to the surface it Avas found, 
that Avhile the front sustaining surfaces had been broken by their 
impact with the Avater, yet the rear ones were comparatiA'ely unin- 
jured. As soon as a full examination of the launching mechanism 
had been made, it Avas found that the front portion of the machine 
had caught on the launching car, and that the guy post, to Avhich Avere 
fastened the guy wires Avhich are the main strength of the front 
surfaces, had been bent to a fatal extent. 

« Major Macomb, of the Board of Ordnance, states In his report to the 
Board, that " the trial was unsuccessful because the front guy post caught in 
its support on the launching car and was not released in time to give free flight, 
as was intended, but, on the contrary, caused the front of the machine to be 
dragged downward, bending the guy post and making the machine plunge into 
the water about ">() yards in front of the house boat." 

i'This instantaneous photograph, taken from the boat itself and hitherto 
unpul)lished, shows the aerodrome in motion before it had actually cleared 
the liouse boat. On the left is seen a portion of a l>eam, being a part of the 
falling ways in which the front wing was caught, while the front wing itself 
is seen twisted, showing that the accident was in progress before the aerodrome 
was free to tly. 



EXPERIMENTS WITH THE LANOLKY AERODRoM K. 123 

The niachinc. then, had ncxci' been free in the aii-. hiil had hccn 
j)idl<'d (h)\\ 11 as slated. 

The disaster just hriefly (h'scril)cd had iiidcliuilcly ])()st{)(HU'(l tlie 
(est, l)iit this was not all. As lias ix'eii said In'fore, the weatlier had 
become very cohl and the so-caHed ('(luinoetial storms hein^ near it 
was de('i(U'd to remove the house boat at the earliest time possible, 
Imt before it could be done, a storm came up and swept away all the 
humches, boats, rafts, etc., and in (loin<>' so completely demolished the 
ufreater pai't of them, so that wIumi the house boat was finally removed 
to Washington, on tlie ITith of October, these appurtenances had to be 
replaced. It is necessary to i-emember that these lonof series of (h^lays 
worked other than mere scientific difficulties, for a more imjxjrtant 
and more vital one was the exhaustion of the hnancial means for the 
work. 

Immediately upon getting the boat to Washington the labor of 
constructing new sustaining surfaces was begun, and they were com- 
pleted about the close of November. It was proposed to make a 
second attempt near the city, though in the meantime the ice had 
formed in the river. However, on the 8th of December, 1003, the 
atmosijhere became very quiet shortly before noon and an imiuediate 
attempt was made at Arsenal Point, quite near AVashington, though 
the site was unfavorable. Shortly after arriving at the selected 
point everything was in readiness for the test. In the meantime 
the wind had arisen and darkness was fast approaching, but as the 
funds for continuing the work were exhausted, rendering it impos- 
sible to wait until spring for more suitable weather for making ;i 
test, it was decided to go on with it if possible. This time then> 
were on hand to witness the test the writer, members of the Board 
of Ordnance, and a few other guests, to say nothing of the hundreds 
of spectators who were Avaiting on the various wharves and shores. 
It was found impossible to moor the boat without a delay which 
would mean that no test could be made on account of darkness, so 
tluit it was held as well as possible by a tug. and kept with the 
aerodrome pointing directly into the wind, though the tide, which 
was running very strong, and the wind, which was blowing 10 miles 
an hour, were together causing nnich ditKcnlty. The engine being 
started and working most satisfactorily, the order was given by 
the engineer to release the machine, but just as it was leaving the 
track another disaster, again due to the launching ways, occurred." 

a Major Macomb again states in liis official report to the Board : " The 
launching car was released at 4.45 ]). ni. * * * The car was set in niDtion 
and tlie prupellers revolved rajiidly. the engine working perfectly, hut there 
was s(»inething wrong with the launching. The rear guy po^^t seemed to drag., 
bringing the rudder down on the launching ways, and a crashing, rending 
sound, followed by the collapse of the rear wings, showed that the machine had 
been wrecked in the launching: just how it was impossible to see." 



124 expeeiments with the langley aerodrome. 

Tliis time the rear of the machine, in some way still unexplainecl, 
was caught by a portion of the launching car. which caused the rear 
sustaining surfaces to break, leaving the rear entirely without sup- 
port, and it came down almost vertically into the water. Dark- 
ness had come before the engineer, Avho had been in extreme danger, 
could aid in the recovery of the aerodrome, the boat and machine 
had drifted apart, and one of the tugs, in its zeal to render assist- 
ance, had fastened a rope to the frame of the machine in the reverse 
position from what it should have been attached and had broken the 
frame entirely in two. While the injury which had thus .been caused 
seemed almost irreparable to one not acquainted with the work, 3'et 
it was found upon close examination that only a small amount of 
labor would be necessary in order to repair the frame, the engine 
itself being entirely uninjured. Had this accident occurred at an 
earlier period, when there were funds available for continuing the 
experiments, it would not have been so serious, for many accidents 
in shop tests had occurred which, while unknown to the general pub- 
lic, had yet caused greater damage and required more time for repair 
than in the present case. But the funds for continuing the work were 
exhausted, and it being found impossible to immediately secure 
others for continuing it, it was found necessary to discontinue the 
experiments for the present, though I decided to use, fi'om a private 
fund, the small amount of money necessary to repair the frame so that 
it itself, together with its engine, which was entirely uninjured, might 
be available for further use if it should later prove possible, and 
that they themselves might be in proper condition to attest to what 
they really represent as an engineering achievement. 

Entirely erroneous impressions have been given by the account 
of these experiments in the public press, from which they have been 
judged, even by experts; the impression being that the nuichine 
could not sustain itself in flight. It seems proper, then, to emphasize 
^nd to reiterate, with a view to what has just been said, that the 
machine has never had a chance to fly at all, but that the failure 
occurred on its launching ways; and the question of its al)ility to fly 
is consequently, as yet, an untried one. 

There have, then, been no failures as far as the actual test of the 
flying capacity of the machine is concerned, for it has never been 
free in the air at all. The failure of the flnancial means for continu- 
ing these expensive experiments has left the question of their result 
where it stood before they were umlertaken, except that it has been 
demonstrated that engines can be built, as they have been, of little 
over one-half the Aveight that was assigned as the possible minimum 
by the best builders of France and Germany; that the frame can be 
made strong enough to carry thes<> engines, and that, so far as any 
possible prevision can extend, another flight would be successful if 



EXPERIMKNTS WITH THK LANCLKV AKRODROMK. 125 

the lauiichiiiii' wcih- siiccc-sl'iil ; lor in (his, iiiid in this ahmc, as fai" 
as is known, all lh(> IroiihU' has conu". 

The t'xpcriuuMits have !iIso given iiccossarv information ahont this 
launohinii-. They lia\e sliown that the method which succeeded per- 
fectly on a smaller scale is insufficient on a lar^ii^er one, and they have 
indicated that it is desirable that the launching should take place 
nearer the surface of the water, either from a track upon the shore 
or from a house boat large enough to enable the apparatus to be 
launched at any time with the wings extended and perhaps with 
wings independent of support from gnys. But the construction of 
this new launching apparatus Avould involve further considerable 
expenditures that there are no pre^sent means to meet; and this, and 
this alone, is the cause of their apparent failure. 

Failure in the aerodrome itself or its engines there has been none; 
and it is believed that it is at the moment of success, and when the 
engineering problems have been solved, that a lack of means has pre- 
vented a continuance of the work. 



RELATION OF WING SURFACE TO WEIGHT. 



By K. VON Leni)KNI'ELI).« 



Successive? iiivostijintors, myself ainoiiy- tlieiii, have studied the 
comparative relation between the weight and the dimensions of fly- 
ing animals. Avith special reference to the extent of wing surface. 
Some hundred species of bats, birds, and flying insects have been 
examined in this way, the results of these researches being given 
in the following table, in which the animals are arranged according 
to weight of bodv. 



Animal. 




Wing 
Wing sur- j surface 
face. to 1 gram 
weight. 



Albatross (Diomeden exulans). 

Bustard {Otis tarda) 

Sea eagle ( Halia'tus albicilln) 

Stork (Ciconia alba) 

Flying fox ( Pfpropus edulis) 

Pheasant ( Plinsia nus colchiciis) 

Herring gull {Lartts argentatiis) 

Crow ( Corvus comix) 

Partridge iPerdix cinerea) 

Dove, pigeon ( Coltimba livid) 

Sparrow hawk (Falco tinniinculus) 

Laughing gull (Lams ridibundiis) 

Thrush (Turdus pilaris) 

Swift (Cypselus apus) 

Sparrow (Passer domesticus) 

Swallow (Hirtmdo rustica) ,. 

Titmouse (Pariis major) 

Small bat ( Vespertilio pipistrellus) 

Sphinx moth (Sphiux ligustri) 

Flatbellied dragonfly (Libellula depressa) 

Bumblebee ( Bonihiis pratoriim) 

Swallowtailed butterfly (Papilio podalirius) . 

Maiden dragonfly (Calopteryx virgo) — 

Cabbage butterfly (Pieris brassicce) 

Honeybee (Apis mellifiva) - 

House fly (Musca domestica) 

Gnat (Culex pipiens) 



Grams. 


Sq. cm 


2,000 


8,000 


9,600 


5,937 


5,000 


7,937 


2,265 


4,506 


1,380 


1,630 


1,000 


880 


1,035 


2,380 


595 


1,286 



293 
260 
197 
100 
33.5 
28 
18 

14.5 
3.7 
1.92 
.6 
.44 
.34 
.2 
.08 
.074 
.01 
.003 



680 

662 

186 

144 

76 

110 

62 

50 

18.64 

13.3 

1.03 

11.2 

13.94 

9.28 

.39 

.18 

.3 



Sq. mm. 

67 

62 

160 

199 

118 

88 

230 

216 

105 

207 

261 

336 

186 

430 

200 

611 

427 

1,351 

971 

2,216 

234 

3,294 

6.970 

11,600 

528 

1,800 

10,000 



It is seen from the foregoing table that the relation of the extent 
of wing surface to the weight of body is not uniform, as might have 
been expected, but exceedingly varial)le For instance, to 1 gram of 
weight the bustard has 62 mm^ of wing surface, while the cabbage but- 

« Translated from Naturwissenschaftliche Wochenschrift, November 20, 1904. 

127 



128 



RELATION OF WING SURFACE TO WEIGHT. 



terflv has 1 1.('>()0. Careful (»l)servatioii shows, however, that in the main 
the variation of tliis ratio depends on the size of the animal, or, stated in 
g-eneral terms, the winijs are rehitively hirger the smaller and lighter 
the animal to which thev belong. It is shown also that the variations 
from the general rule depend on the fact that the mode of flight is dif- 
ferent in different animals. Some flying creatures overcome weight by 
the rapid movement of their wings; others, especially at the beginning 
of a stroke, take advantage of the internal atmospheric currents, and 
use the enormous resistance of the air for their purpose. The first 
class, to which the sparrow and the honeybee belong, may be desig- 
nated as flapping flyers, and the last class, of which the albatross and 
the sea eagle are examples, as sailing flyers. These extreme types of 
the so-called flapping and sailing flyers are connected by an unbroken 
chain of flying creatures, not all of which are so exclusively either 
flappers or sailers as the birds just named. 

As might be expected, the flapping flyers have comparatively small 
wings, which move swiftly by the aid of powerful muscles, while the 
wings of the sailers are moved by weaker muscles and more slowly. 
If Ave take these two classes into consideration separately, as in the 
following tables, it is clearly shown that the wing surface increases 
with decreasing w^eight of body. 

Flappers. 



Animal. 



Weight. 



Wing sur- 
face to 1 
gram 
weight. 



Bu.stard ... 
Pheasant . . 
Partridge.. 
Sparrow . . . 
Bumblebee 
Honeybee . 
House fly.- 
Gnat 



Grams. 
9,600 
1,000 
320 
28 
.44 
.074 
.01 
.003 



Mm-i 

62 

88 

ia5 

200 
234 

528 
1,800 
10, (XX) 



Sailers. 



Animal. 



Weight. 


Wing sur- 
face to 1 

gram 
weight. 


Grams. 


Mm-2 


12,000 


67 


5,000 


160 


2,265 


199 


1,035 


230 


260 


261 


197 


336 


.2 


6,970 


.183 


28,710 



Albatross 

Sea eagle 

Stork 

Silver gull... 

Sparrow hawk . . . 

Laughing gull 

Virgin dragon fly 
Lemon butterfly. 



RELATION OF \VIN(i SHUKACK TO WKIOHT. 129 

()!' this fact llicri' can !»(' no doulit. and the (jncstion arises why 
this is so. MiiHcnholl' and otlici's who ha\(' interested theniseh'es in 
this iiHjnirv have answered it from tlie niof|)hoh)iiieal point of \iew. 
From the entirely coi'rect principle deduced I'l-onT the j)osition of 
these in\ est i<ja tors, that with increasini'; size the linear diminsions 
increase in the first, the ma<j;nitude in the second, and the weijiht 
in the third ratio, they conclude that the win^j; surfacf^ is not to he 
compared directly with the weii>ht, hut the s(iuare root of this sur- 
face with the cube root of the weight. In fact, however, the fin^ures 
thus obtained show no constancy, even when comparing- animals of 

the same mode 'of flio-ht. Thus the fornnila ^t/"".'"!; ffives in the 

l)artrido;e 4. OH, in the sparrow ii.8(), and in the binnblebee ].:>:>. 

If, however, such u constancy existed, which we see is not the case, 
the paradox that lies in the relative increase of wing surface with 
decreasing weight of body would by no means be set aside; but in 
similarly formed flying creatures it is not so essential that they shall 
be morphologically alike as that all shall perform the task of over- 
coming weight equally well, and thus be functionally the same. 

In sustaining and propelling the body it thus becomes a question 
of the power of the wings to press down upon the air, and this 
power depends not only on their size, but in a very great degree upon 
the swiftness of their movement against the air and its consequent 
resistance. Hence, as is evident, the flapping flyers, whose wings 
move in a comparatively small angle, have greater lifting power 
the longer their wings and the more strokes they make in a second, 

A sparrow has a wing length of about 10 cm. and makes about 12 
wing strokes in a second; a bee with a wing length of approximately 
G.3 mm. makes, as ^larey has shown, about 100 strokes in a second. 
G.3 times 190 about equaling 100 times 12. The slow wing movement 
used by the sailing birds when needed shows the same. The stork 
has a wing length of 68 cm. and makes 1| strokes in a second, and 
the laughing gull with a wing length of 39 cm. makes 3^- strokes in 
the same time. In these instances also the results are not dissimilar. 
In general, one may therefore say that the movement of the wings 
against the air in many birds of the same mode of flight is of equal 
rapidity, this being true of the flapping flyers as well as the sailers. 
Although the smaller flyers h:ive relatively larger wings than the 
greater, one can not for this reason assert that the movement of the 
wing surface against the air would be slower. 

In view of the biological principle that organs are not greater than 

demanded by their function, we nuist conclude from the known facts 

that the smaller animals need relatively larger wings to accomplish 

what the larger and heavier attain with their relatively smaller ones. 

SM 1904 9 



130 RELATION OF WING SURFACE TO WEIGHT. 

The fact that a wing surface of 07 nini'- per gram enables the alba- 
tross to sail, while the laughing gull requires 336 mm- for the same 
parpose, and that the l)ustard gets along with 02. while the sparrow 
needs 200 and the fly 1,800 mm-, can be explained only on the supposi- 
tion that the resistance of the air against moving wings is not directly 
proportional to their size, but that in enlarging the wrings the resisting 
power of the air against them increases in a greater ratio than their 
superficial dimensions. Knowing that the air requires an appreciable 
time to yield to the pressure of the moving wing, and that the larger 
the Aving surface the greater the quantity of air displaced and the 
greater the resistance of this compressed air to the subsequent wing 
strokes which must act upon it, it is evident that this conclusion is 
correct. 

There can therefore be no doubt that increasing size of body is 
accompanied by a relatiA'e decrease of wing surface, and from this 
fact we are able to draw interesting conclusions as to the size of the 
wings a man would need to be able to fly. If we show the relation of 
the Aveight to the size of the Aving by the means of coordinates, con- 
necting the points thus gained In^ a curA'e, and then extend this curve 
as demanded by the relative Aveight of the heaviest aninuil, Ave secure 
an approximate illustration of the Aving size Avhich such bodies Avould 
require. Since the muscular poAver of a human being Avould by no 
means suffice for flapj^ing flight, it could only be a question of sailing 
flight in this case. I haA^e therefore draAAii a curve for sailing flyers 
on the principle aboA'e indicated, from Avhich the foUoAA'ing is 
deduced : 

70 kilograms, weight of body, would require o2 imii" of wing surface per gram. 
80 kilograms, weight of body, would re(iuire 31 luiu^ of \Aiug surface per gram. 
00 kilograms, weight of body, would re-iuire 30 uuu- of wing surface per gram. 
100 kilograms, weight of body, would require 29.5 mm" of wing surface per gram. 

According to the foregoing, if the combined Aveiglit of the body and 
the mechanical flying apparatus amounts to 90 kilograms, in order 
to sail like an albatross a man Avoidd require 1)0,000 times 30, or 
2.700,000 mm' of wing surface; that is to say, two Avings furnishing 
together 2.7 square meters of surface. 



RUMFOiU) spectrohelioOraph of the yerkes 

OBSERVATORY." 



By (JEORtiE E. IIalk aiul Fkrdinand Ki.lekman.6 



INTRODUCTION. 



The application of the spectroscope in 1S(J8 to the observation of 
sohir prominences in full sunlight opened an extensive field of 
research and directed the attention of astronomers to the importance 
of applying the poAverful instruments and methods of the physical 
laboratory to the study of the sun. Since that time the rise and 
development of stellar spectroscopy have further emphasized the 
imi^ortance of solar investigation. For it can not be too often 
repeated that the sun is the only star whose phenomena can be 
studied in detail; in interpreting the spectroscopic phenomena of 
all the other stars we must therefore return in every instance to the 
sun. If its infinitely varied and complex activities were well under- 
stood, the problems encountered in the study of stellar evolution 
would be greatly simplified. But although the constant use of the 
spectroscope, dating back to the discovery of the chemical constitu- 
tion of the sun in 1859, has furnished an immense amount of valuable 
information, there appeal's to be an exceptional opportunity at the 
])resent time to secure new and important results, especially through 
the use of the large spectroscopes and other powerful instruments 
of the physical laboratory. For solar spectroscopy has b}^ no means 
kept pace with laboratory spectroscopy; few largo grating spectro- 
scopes, such as are foinid in every physical laboratory, have ever 
been employed to study a large image of the sun. This being true, 
it is less renuirkable that other laboratory instruments not so gen- 
erally available are still awaiting application in solar research. 

" Abstract, by pennission, Iroiu the Publications of the Yerkes Observatory, 
Vol. Ill, Part I, 1904. 

''Altbough this paper has been wrirtcn by myself, for coiivcnicnco of refer- 
once to previous studies and o[)inions it belongs also to Mr. Ellernian, because 
of. his important share iu the work.— G. E. U, 

131 



132 KUMFORD SPECTEOHELIOGRAPH. 

The widespread interest in total solar eclipses and the great ex- 
l)enditure of time and money so freely made in observin«: them 
surely tend to emphasize Avhat has been said. For if it is worth 
while, as it certainly is, to travel thousands of miles and to undergo 
hardships in order to spend a few flying seconds in making observa- 
tions, it w^onld seem no less advantageous to continue solar work at 
home, where entirely new phenomena can be observed dail}' with 
a much smaller expenditure of effort. Total eclipses of the sun Avill 
ahvays be of great importance, as the corona can not be observed in 
full sunlight. But the study of many other solar phenomena, Avhich 
(;an be observed whenever the sk}^ is clear, is quite as likely to 
advance our knoAvledge of the solar constitution. 

It was with some such ideas in mind that the work of the Kenwood 
Observatory was undertaken in 1888. It seemed obvious that even 
a very slight appreciation of the subject should suffice to render 
possible some improvements of method. A first step in this direc- 
tion Avas attempted by the invention of the spectroheliograph in 
1889. /rhe original purpose of this instrument was the photography 
of the chromosphere and prominences, in order to simplify and ren- 
der more accurate the daily delineation of their form. It was subse- 
quently found, as will be shown in the present j)aper, that the instru- 
ment had a far wider range of application, and that it could be 
applied in directions wdiich had not suggested themselves in 1889. 

The principle of the spectroheliograph is exceedingly simple. 
Imagine a direct-vision spectroscope in which the eyepiece ordina- 
rily employed is replaced by a (second) slit. If an image of the sun 
is formed on the first slit of this spectroscope, the second slit will 
permit the passage of only a narrow region of the spectrum corre- 
sponding in width to this slit. If the slit is now moved until it coin- 
cides with the H^ line, for example, only hydrogen light will pass 
through the instrument. If, then, a photographic plate is placed 
behind and almost in contact with the second slit, and the spectro- 
scope is moved at right angles to its optical axis, an image of the 
sun. in monochromatic hydrogen light, will be built up on the plate 
from the successive images of the slit. If the exposure is suitable, 
the chi-ouiosphere and prominences will be shown surrounding this 
image. 

Such is the spectroheliograph in its simplest form. It is obvi- 
ously immaterial whether the motion be given to the spectroscope, 
on tile one hand, or to the solar image and photographic plate, on the 
other. It is only necessary that the relative motion of the solar 
image and first slit be such that light from all parts of the solar disk 
shall pass successively through the slit, wdiile the photographic plate 
and second slit experience a corresponding relative motion. The 
second slit serves simply to isolate any desired line in the spectrum j 



RUMFOEi) SPECTROHELIOGRAPH. 133 

lioiico its width must ho such as exactly to inchicle this line and to 
exclude all li^ht from other parts of the spectrum. It is evident, 
tiiat the spectroheliogTaph may he considered simply as a form of 
monochromatic exposing; shutter, ditfering from the ordinary focal 
plane shutter only through the use of a nai'rower exposing slit and 
the inclusion of an optical train which limits the light to a single 
line in the sj)ectrnm. 

Although this idea suggested itself to me quite independently in 
1S8D, I subsequently learned that the principle was by no means new. 
Indeed. Janssen had suggested it as early as 1869, while Braun. of 
Kalocsa, and Lohse, of Potsdam, had designed instruments involv- 
ing the same principle in 1872 and 1880, respectively. Indeed, 
Lohse had constructed and experimented Avith the instrument he de- 
signed, but his work was not successful. This may have been due 
in part to the fact that the hydrogen line which he employed is not 
nearly so well adapted for i:)rominence photography as are the H 
and K lines of calcium. This was one of the difficulties experienced 
in my first (unsuccessful) experiments, Avhich, through the kindness 
of Professor Pickering, were made at the Harvard College Observa- 
tory in the winter of 1889-1890. 

In April, 1891, after the Kenwood Observatory httd been equipped 
with a 1'2-inch equatorial i-efractor and a powerful solar spectroscojje, 
a photographic study of the ultra-violet spectrum of the chromosphere 
and prominences was undertaken in the hope of finding lines better 
adapted than those of hydrogen for the photography of the promi- 
nences. The brilliant H and K lines of calcium, previously observed 
\'isually in full sunlight by Professor Young and photographically at 
total eclipses, were found in all cases to be the most consi)icuous lines 
in the spectrum of the chromosphere and prominences. The remark- 
able l)rightness of these lines, and more particularly their position at 
the center of the dark, broad shades, due to the denser calcium vai)or 
in the lower portion of the solar atmosphere, render them i)eculiarly 
well adapted for the purposes of prominence photography. Indeed, 
it was possible with their aid to obtain good photographs of single 
[)rominences merely by opening the slit of the spectroscope to such an 
extent as to include a considerable part of the prominence and giving 
a very short exposure to the inuige formed directly upon a photo- 
graphic plate. But this method was too limited to be of general 
application. In order to record photographically the entire surface 
of the sun, with the chromos])here and prominences, it was necessary 
to employ the principle of the sjiectnjheliograph, involving the use 
of narrow slits, moved with reference to the solar image and jihoto- 
graphic plate. The first successful spectroheliograph was brought 
•iiUo use at the Kenwood Observatory in January. 1892. After this 
time it was employed regularly on every clear day until May, 1895, 



184 RITMFORD SPECTROHELIOGRAPH. 

soon after Avliicli the instruments of the Kenwood Observatory were 
removed to the Yerkes Observatory. 

My spectroscopic studies of the sun during the spring and summer 
of 1891 were not confined to the chromosphere and prominences. It 
was found that the H and K lines, previously recognized as no less 
characteristic of the prominences than the hydrogen lines themselves, 
Avere reversed from dark to bright in regions scattered all over the 
solar disk. This fact had not escaped the attention of Professor 
Young, who had long before remarked the presence of these lines in 
the neighborhood of active sun spots. But the greater delicacy of the 
photographic processes showed these bright lines to characterize very 
extensive regions on the sun's surface, not confined to the immediate 
neighborhood of spots, but scattered throughout the sun-spot zones, 
and even extending from pole to pole. It w^as noticed from the out- 
set that these bright regions corresponded closely with the well-known 
facula% and in my earlier work they were called by this name. It has 
since become clear, however, that a distinctive term should be adopted, 
and I now propose the name "■ flocculi " for the regions on the sun's 
disk which are shown only on photographs made with the spectro- 
heliograpli. 

The possibility of photographing these bright regions on the sun's 
disk with the spectroheliograph at once greatly extended the range 
of that instrument, as it was thus shown to be capable of recording, 
not only the prominences, Avhich could be observed, though very 
laboriously, by visual methods, but also extensive and important 
jihenomena invisible to the eye and not showai on photographs taken 
in the ordinary manner. Spectroheliographs Avere accordingly 
adopted for use at other observatories, first by Mr. EA^rshed in Eng- 
land, and subsequently (in 1893) by M. Deslandres at the Paris Ob- 
servatory. Both of these spectroscopists introduced modifications 
and improvements of'tlie instrument, Mr. Evershed constructing a 
direct-vision spectroheliograph of remarkable simplicity and beauty, 
and M. Deslandres, Avith a different type of instrument, obtaining 
photographs of great excellence. 

It had been hoped and expected that the interruption in the daily 
series of photographs, caused by removal to the Yerkes Observatory^ 
in 189(j, Avould be of short duration, but unfortunately this did not 
prove to be the case. The 12-inch refractor, devoted at KeuAVOod 
entirely to solar Avork, Avas needed at the Yerkes Observatory for 
general purposes. It therefore became necessary to remove the spec- 
troheliograph from this telescope, and to modify the mounting in 
order to adapt it for general obser\ ational Avork. The spectrohelio- 
graph Avas remodeled for use Avitli the 40-inch refractor as a solar 
spectroscope, and it was expected that a ucav spectroheliograph, large 
enough to photograph the 7-inch (17.8 cm.) image at the focus of 



RITMFOTIT) SPErTTiOnKLTOflRArn. 135 

(his toloscopo. would soon he ready i'ov use. But the funds r(H|ui]-('d 
for tlie conslrncl ion of the new siH'clroheliogriiph were not forth- 
coniinii'. and when it (inally hecame possible to undertake w()i'i< on 
this insti'ument ( through a orant from the Runiford fund, and the 
•lifts of friends of the observatory) i)rogress was slow, owing to the 
limited funds available. For a 7-inch solar image, collimator and 
camera lenses of about 10 inches ('25.4 cm.) aperture were needed; 
hut the considerable cost of such lenses rendered their pui'chase 
impossible, and a pair of 6] -inch (IT). 7 cm.) Yoigtliinder poi-trait 
kMises. obtained fi-om second-hand dealers after a year's search, were 
ado})ted. AVith lenses of this aperture^ it is evident that much light 
unist be lost at the extremities of the slit, and that the resulting image 
of the sun must therefore be deficient in brightness at the correspond- 
ing liml)s. Even after the lenses had been s(>cured, the demands of 
other phases of the observatory's work greatly retarded the construc- 
tion of the instrument, and it was not until the latter i)art of lSOi> 
that it was ready for trial." * ^■ 

PRELIMIXARY ACCOUNT OF RESULTS OBTAINED WITH THE RUIMFORD 
SPECTROHELIOGRAPir. 

Prior to 11»();> the Rumford spectroheliograph was used for experi- 
mental purposes, the numerous photographs obtained during the sun- 
spot mininnun being of service mainly in perfecting the adjustments 
of the instrument. It had been expected that the spectroheliograph 
would l)e transfered from the 40-incli refractor to the 80-inch ccelostat 
reflector for the purposes of the daily record ; but the destruction of 
the latter instrument by fire in December, 1902, prevented the reali- 
zation of this plan.'' The work with the -tO-inch refractor was accord- 
ingly resumed in February, 1903, and since the latter part of that 
month photographs of the calcium flocculi have been made 6n each 
clear day (Sundays usually excepted). Since early in April this 
series has been supjjlemented by a daily series of (low-level) photo- 
graphs, made with the slit set at some distance from the center of the 
II or K band, and since May 1() photographs have been nnule as often 
as possible with the H/^line. In addition to this routine work many 
photographs of special regions have been taken in a study of the 
calcium vapor at \arious levels, and some results have also been 
obtained with the calcium line A 4,22().9, the iron line >V 4,883.7, and 
with various other dark lines. It will thus be seen that while the 
material represented by the photographs obtained with the Rumford 

o There follows a tloscription of the Ruiufonl sitoctroliolioiLirapli. 1"<>1' which the 
reader may consult the original publication. 

'' 'rhrough the generosity of iNIiss Helen Snow the coelostat reflector has been 
rebuilt aiul is now in regular use. A spectroheliograph will soon be euiploj'ed 
with it. 



136 RUMFORD SPECTROHELIOGHAPH. 

spectrohelioo:raph is not vet sufficient for extended generalizations, 
the variety of phenomena recorded is such as to call for some comment 
here. A more complete discussion of the results must be reserved 
for a future occasion. 

ON THE NATURE OF THE CALCIUM FLOCCULI. 

In my first published note on the bright calcium regions recorded 
for the first time with tlie Kenwood spectroheliograph I ])riefly 
described the results in tlie following words : 

The reversed regions are of great extent and in appearance closely resemble 
facuhe. Several explanations may he suggested to account for them. They 
may he : 

1. Ordinary prominences i)rojected on the disk. 

2. Prominences in which H and K are bright, while the hydrogen lines are 
absent. 

3. Faculpe. 

4. Phenomena of a new class, similar to faciUiv, but showing H and K bright, 
and not obtained in eye observations or ordinary photographs because of the 
brilliant background upon which they are projected." 

It was subsequently shown that the bright calcium regions in gen- 
eral coincide closely with the facuhe, and it was concluded that they 
represent the hot calcium vapor in the upper part of the faculoe and 
in the lower part of the adjoining chromosphere. Fig. 1, plate iii, 
which is reproduced fi-om a photogra]3h of the K line taken at Ken- 
w^ood Observatory, sho^^s that the bright reversals of the K line fre- 
quently occur in regions of the disk where the continuous spectrum is 
considerably strengthened. These regions are the facuhe proper. 
The facula>, though apparently but little brighter than the photo- 
sphere, are conspicuously vi-sible near the sun's limb. This is prob- 
ably due to the fact that they reach a higher level, and thus escape 
much of the general absorption exercised by a comparatively thin 
stratum of a smoke-like nature which lies in close contact with the 
])hotosphei-e. The facuhe are, in general, the regions above which 
the calcium vapor is hottest and most brilliant. 

But it appeared later that the calcium vaj^or is not confined to the 
facuhe, but extends beyond their boundaries and frequently occurs in 
regions of the solar disk where they are absent. The generally close 
coincidence of the calcium clouds with the faculse, and a natural hesi- 
tation to propose a new name l^efore the results obtained with the 
spectroheliograph had been sufficiently studied, led me to apply this 
term to the bright calcium regions photographed with the spectro- 
heliograph. From my present point of view" I think it would have 
tended to clearness, as M. Deslandres has pointed out, if some other 
name had been adopted. 



oAstronomy and Astrophysics, Vol. TI (1892), p. 159. 



RTTMFORD SPECTROHELIOGRAPH. 137 

M. Doslaiulres's latest oxplanation of the calcium regions is un- 
doubtedly more nearly correct than my earlier one, though at the time 
I did not ai)preciate this. His solar investigations at the Paris Ob- 
servatory were confined for some years to the photography (^f the 
spectrum of various parts of the sun's disk, but in 181)4 he undertook 
work with the spectroheliograph. The bright reversals of the IT and 
K lines photograi)hed by M. Deslandres on the sun's disk were at 
first considered by him to represent the prominences; later he 
ascribed (hem to bright regions at the base of the prominences, and 
finally he spoke of them as the brightei- regions at the base of the 
chromosphere projected on the disk. This last designation now 
appears to me to describe the facts much more accurately than the 
term " facnhe " (meaning calcium vapor of the facula:-) at first em- 
ployed by myself. In suggesting the term flocculi (flocculus, dim. of 
floccus, " a bit of wool ") to distinguish the vaporous clouds photo- 
graphed on the disk from the underlying facuhe, I have distinctly 
avoided the use of a name which might in any sense be taken as indi- 
cating the nature of the phenomena. A glance at plate iii will show 
that the woi-d is more or less descriptive of the photographs, so far as 
their ai)i)ea ranee is concerned." 

Tt is necessary to speak of calcium flocculi, hydrogen flocculi, etc., 
as the photographs show that the forms of the various vapors in the 
same part of the disk are not identical. Some of the phenomena com- 
prised under this name are undoubtedly prominences seen in projec- 
tion, l)ut most of them correspond to much lower levels, near the base 
of the chromosphere, or within the reversing layer. 

MINUTE STRUCTl RE OF THE FLOCCULI. 

The extensive literature which embodies the long discussion regard- 
ing the " willow leaf " and " rice grain " structure of the photosphere 
has in large part become obsolete since the publication of Langley's 
important ])aper •' On the minute structure of the solar photosphere," 
and of Janssen's excellent photographs, noAV generally accessible in. 
the first volume of the Annals of the Observatory of Meudon. After 
speaking of the cloud-like character of the photosi)here, Langley goes 
on to describe the more minute details in the following words: ^ 

Under high powers used in favorable monionts, the surface of any one of the 
fleecy patclies is resolved into a congeries of small, intensely bright bodies, irreg- 
ularly distributed, which seem to be suspendetl in a comparatively dark medium, 
.md whose definitcnoss of size and outline, although not absolute, is yet striUing 
by contrast with the vagueness of the cloud-forms seen before, and which Wf 
now i)crc('ive to lie due to their aggregation. The "dots" seen before are con- 

o The name was suggested by my Iriond. Di-. L. F. Karker. after seeing the 
photographs. 

''American Joui-nal of Science. \'ol. Vll ( Feln'uary, 1S74). 



138 RITMFORT) SPEOTROHELIOGRAPH. 

sidor.ililo fi])onin2:s onused by the iibsenee of the white nodules at certain point?, 
and liie coiisiMjiient e.\iM)siu'e of tlie gray medium whicli forms tlie general back- 
ground. These openings have been called pores; their variety of size makes 
any measurements nearly valueless, though we may estimate in a very rough 
way the diameter of llie more conspicnons at from 2" to i". The bright 
nodules are themselves not uniforndy bright (some being notably more brilliant 
than their fellows and even unequally bright in portions of the same nodule), 
neither are they uniform in shajie. They have just been spoken of as relatively 
definite in outline, but this outline is commonly found to be irregular on nnnute 
study, while it yet affects, as a whole, an elongated or oval contour. Mr. Stone 
has called them "rice grains." a term only descriptive of their appearance with 
an aperture of 3 to 4 inches, but which I will use provisionally. It depicts their 
whiteness, their relative individuality, and their api)roximate form, but not their 
irregular outline, nor a certain tendency to foliate structure which is character- 
istic of them, and which has not been sufficiently remarked upon. This iri'egu- 
larity and diversity of outline have been already observed by Mr. Iluggins. 
Estimates of the main size of these bodies vary very widely. Probably Mr. 
Huggins has taken a .judicious mean in averaging their longer diameter at l".r> 
and their shorter at 1", while remarking that they are occasionally l)etween 2" 
and .">", and sometimes less than 1", in l<>ngth. 

* * * In moments of rarest delinitiou I have resolved these " rice grains" 
into minuter components, sensibly round, which are seen singly as ])oints of light, 
and whose aggregation produces the "rice-grain" structure. Tliese minutest 
bodies, which I will call graiuiles, it will appear subsequently, can hardly ecjual 
{).'",) in diameter, and are probably less. 

* * * It seems to me that there is no room for doul)t tliat " filaments " and 
"granules" are names for different aspects of the same thing; that filaments in 
reality are floating vertically all over the sun, their upper extremities ajjpearing 
at the surface as gratmles, and that in spots we only see the general structure 
of the i)hotos]ihere, as if in section, owing to the filaments being here inclined. 

* * * Speaking without reference to spectroscopic investigations, it seems 
to me tliat we have in the behavior of our filaments a presumption as to the 
existence of ascending currents in the outer jienumbra, and of both ascending 
and descending currents at the umbral edge ; ascending ones being the more 
usual. 

An examination of the minute calcium flocculi photographed vUh 
the Eumford spectroheliograph will show that they closely reseml>le 
the photospheric " grains '' described by Langley and illustrated in 
Janssen's photographs. Plate vi is reproduced from one of our nega- 
tives on the scale chosen for the majority of the photographs in Vol- 
ume I of the INIeudon Annals. This photograph was made with tlie 
slit set at the center of the H line on a day when the seeing was par- 
ticularly good. In fig. 3, pi. Ill, squares 10 seconds of arc on si 
side are shown. These permit of an accurate determination of the 
size of the individual elements of the structure. Measurements made 
on our best negatives show that the minute calcium flocculi range in 
diameter from less than 1 second to several seconds of arc, thus cor- 
resi)onding closely with the " grains '' of the photosphere. 

On the woiking hypothesis at present employed to interpret llie 
results obtained with the Rumford spectroheliograph, it is considered 



HITMKORI) SI'KC'I'IMIlKIJOOliAIMr. 1 H^) 

llint (liosc iiiiiHilc llocciili lire coliiiuiis of ciilciiiin \;i])()i', risin<>: iil)()\'i' 
the coliiiiiiis of coiKlcnscd \ ;i|)()rs of which (lie pholosphoric " liTiiins '' 
lire the siminiits. 

On such an assumption it l)c('()nu's inlorostin<>; to inquiiv whether 
tlie hir<>'(M' calciuni (locculi are made up of simihir columns of cah-ium 
\ai)()i". As a i-uU', the seeing is hardly li'ood enougli (o permit a deci- 
sion to he reached on this point. r>ut under the host conditions th<'re 
appears to he distinct evidence of a lihimentarv structure, tlie fihi- 
mentji seeming to spread out like the hi'anches of a tive (fig. 2, pi. v). 
Tt is evident that much light could he tlr.'own on the question if it 
were |)ossihle to i)hotograi)h sections of the flocculi at ditferent eleva- 
tions al)ov(> the photosphere, since in this way the form and size of 
distinct columns of calcium vapor, if such were present, could he 
determined at different levels. 

FORM AND EXTENT ()!•' CAI-CIUM FLOCCULI AT VARIOUS ELEVATIONS ABOVE 

THE PHOTOSPHERE. 

Fortunately, it is possible to accomplish this very result, if the 
])resent mode of explaining the photographs may be regarded as 
sound. We have alivady had occasion to consider some of the charac- 
teristics of the II and K reversals of the chromospliere. In the solar 
spectrum itself the appearance of the II and K lines clearly indicates 
that calcium vapor occurs under widely different conditions of inten- 
sity at various levels above the photosphere. It is a well-known fact 
that if a considerable quantity of calcium vapor is introduced into an 
electric arc, broad bands, bright in the center and fading toward 
both edges, will appear at the position of the H and K lines (fig. "2, 
pi. hi)." The width of the bands may be taken as an approximate 
measure of the density of the calcium vapor, which decreases toward 
the outer part of the arc, where the bands are reduced to narrow lines. 
The narrow dark lines at the center of the bright bands are caused by 
the absorption of the comparatively cool and rare calciuni vapor in 
the outer part of the arc. 

A similar condition of things undoubtedly exists in the sun. In 
the first place, Ave have broad diU'use dark bands in the solar spectrum 
at II and K, produced by comparatively dense calcium vapor close 
lo the photosphere. For convenience of reference these bands will 
be called II, and Ki- As the bright reversals at the base of the 
chromosphere, when photographed at the sun's limb with a tan- 
gential slit, or at a total eclipse, are much narrower than these bands, 
it may be concluded that the dense calcium vapor in the cliromo- 

a Photographed in the electric arc with the solar si)Oftrosraph of the Snow 
horizontal telescoiK'. The Ki'atin.ir temporarily employ*'*! gives strong ghosts, 
which are conspicuous in the photograph. 



140 RUMFOilD SPECTROHEtlOGRAl^fi. 

sphere lies beneath the lowest level that can be observed at the limb. 
On the basis of Kirclihoff's law, the comparative darkness of these 
bands in the solar spectrum woidd be ascribed to the fact that the 
calcium vaj^or which they represent is cooler than the photosphere 
below it. With increasing elevation, in a region of lower pressure, 
the density of the vapor decreases, and to this decrease of density 
there corresponds a decrease in the width of the bands. In the lowest 
portion of the chromosphere that can be observed at the sun's limb 
the density of the vapor is so far reduced that the broad and diffuse 
bands are replaced by fairly well-defined lines (Ho, K,), which main- 
tain their width up to a certain elevation in the chromosphere and 
then grow narrower, thinning out to much narrower lines (H^, K3) 
in the upper chromosphere and prominences (fig. 2a, pi. 11). On 
the disk H.. and K^ appear as fairly narrow dark lines at the center 
of the broad H^ and K^ bands. They occur in practically all parts 
of the disk, but differ greatly in intensity in different regions. Every 
bright calcium flocculus on the disk is characterized by the presence 
of bright II. and K. lines at the center of Hj and K^, with narrow 
dark H3 and K3 lines, due to the absorption of the cooler and rarer 
vapor in the upper chromosphere superposed upon them. Intensity 
curves showing these peculiarities of the H and K lines are given by 
Jewell in the Astrophysical Journal, iii (1896), page 100, Avhere the 
displacements of the lines are also discussed. They are also illus- 
trated in the photographs reproduced in plates 11 and iii. 

From a strict application of Kirchhoff's law it would appear that 
the calcium vapor in the lower chromosphere is actually hotter than 
the calcium vapor which lies above and below it. It seems imj^rob- 
able that the law can be rigorously applied in this case, and hence it 
may be necessary to attribute the strong radiation of the intermediate 
layer to causes other than temperature alone. 

In view of the composite character of the calcium lines, it should 
be possible with the spectroheliograph to photograj^h sections of 
the calcium flocculi at levels corresponding to their several elements." 
If, for example, the second slit were set at the extreme edge of K^, 
the resulting photograph should show only that calcium vapor 
which is dense enough to produce a line of tliis breadth, i. e., a sec- 
tion across the base of the calcium flocculus, should be obtained. 
Under no circumstances could the upper and rarer portions of the 

a Experiments of this kind were not undertalcen with the Kenwood spectro- 
lieliograph, since the instrnnient was not well adapted for work with dark lines. 
Some of the photoijraphs, however, nj)parentl.v show low-level (Ki) phenomena, 
and Mr. Evershwl informs mo that his plates do likewise. M. Deslandres 
made photographs with K, and K. in 1S04, hnt I have seen no statements of 
conclusions derived from a study of the K, plates, and do not know whether 
the method lias since been employed at Meudou. 



KHMFOKI) SI'K(TK(>IIKLI()(}KAl'n, 141 

llocciilus !)(' shoAvii on such a [)h()t()<j,raph, since the line thoy pnxhicc 
is not broad (Mioti<2h to cntoi' the second slit. If the slit were set 
neai'er to the center of the line the piiotograph should i-epi-esent 
a section of the lloccidus correspondino- to a hi<i;hei' level, wliei'e a 
narrower line is ])roduced. It is evident that while none of the 
higher and raivr calcium va})or could he shown in this })hotograph, 
il ini<j,ht nevertheless include reaions lyinu' helow it, where the 
«"dciiHn Aai)or is dense enou<>h to [)roduce a broader line. However, 
since the calcium vapor is risino; from a re<2;ion of hi<'h pressui'e to 
one of a much lower pressure, it nnist exj)and as it rises, and there- 
fore a section at any level should, in <>eneral, be of a la)'<>er area 
than a section of the same flocculus at any lower level. As a con- 
sequence of the increasin<i- extent of the vapor with the altitude, and 
the increase of brightness observed when passing from K^ to K., 
a photograph corresponding to a given level is not necessarily af- 
fected in any considerable degree l)y the existence of the denser vapor 
below, except in cases where the high-level vapor does not lie innne- 
diately above the low-level vapor. LoAv-level phenomena, even 
when very bright, may be wholly concealed by general excess of 
radiation, or in some cases by absorption, of the calcium vapor at 
high levels. Moreover, it is of course to be understood that the 
term '' level "' is not used here in a strict sense. A section of a 
large flocculus photographed ^fith K. might, for example, correspond 
to a nuu^h greater height above the photosphere than that of the 
minute flocculi shown on the same photograph. It must never be for- 
gotten, when examining the photographs, that composite effects 
are very likely to be present. 

Such considerations regarding the possibility of photographing 
sections of the flocculi at different levels are borne out by the photo- 
graphs, as will be seen by reference to the accompanying illustra- 
tions. Plates VII and viii represent the spot group of 1903, April 
i2i), as photographed with four different settings of the second slit. 
These were taken within such time limits and in such an order tliat, 
as no distinctly eruptive phenomena were present, the principal dif- 
ferences between tlie photographs are therefore to be attributed to 
differences in the extent and brightness of the vapor at various levels, 
and not to clianges going on in the sun at the time. 

The assumption that these photographs represent sections of .the 
calcium flocculi at different elevations seems to be the simplest and 
most satisfactory way of explaining the results obtained. Essen- 
tially conclusive evidence in favor of this assumption is afforded by 
the photographs of the recent great sun spot. (Pis. xii to xviii.) 

"With the aid of this additional means of research we may return 
to a consideration of the structure of the flocculi. It has already 
been remarked that the general surface of the sun appears to be cov- 



142 RUMFORD spp:ctroheliograph. 

ered with columns of bright calcium vapor, varying in diameter 
from less than a second to several seconds of arc, sej)arated by darker 
spaces, which correspond in appearance to the darker spaces that 
separate the photospheric " grains." The summits of these columns 
seem to lie in the second stratum, corresponding to the bright lines 
H„ and K,. 

In the larger fiocculi the surmise of a structure composed of ex- 
panding columns of calcium vapor seems to be borne out by the pho- 
tographs. Compare, for example, figures 1 and 2 in plate vii. At 
the lower level (fig. 1) the flocculus is resolved into a series of well- 
defined elements, of comparatively small area. At the higher level 
(fig. 2) the area of the entire flocculus is greatly increased, and there 
seems to be evidence (hardly visible in the cut) that the columns 
comjiosing it have arched over, so that they are no longer seen end 
on. Few photographs are sufficiently well defined to bring out such 
details, and it can not be said Avitli certainty that the eifects seen at 
the higher level are always due to separation and bending of the col- 
umns, as well as to expansion of each of the individual columns. In 
any event, the increase in area at this level is sometimes very great, 
in many cases sufficient to cover not only the penumbra, but also 
entire spots. Another illustration of the expansion at increasing 
altitudes may be seen in the four photographs, corresponding to dif- 
ferent levels, which are reproduced in plates vii and viii. A much 
finer illustration is afl'orded by the photographs in plates xi to xvjii 
of the recent great sun spot. 

HYDROGEN FLOCCULI. 

The method of photographing the sini with the aid of the dark 
Fraunhofer lines has already been explained. The spectroheliograph 
is employed exactly as in the case of the bright calcium lines, but the 
dispersion is increased sufficiently to insure that the Avidth of the 
dark lines shall be greater than that of the second slit. Under 
such circumstances photographs corresponding to the hydrogen lines, 
or to any other dark lines of sufficient width, may be obtained. 

The first photograpli made with a dark hydrogen line {Hfi) was 
taken with the Eumford spectroheliograph on May IG, 1903. On 
developiug the plate we were surprised to find a structure differing 
materially from that obtained with H. and K^. Closer examination 
and a comparison of the photograph with a K. photograph made on 
the same day showed that the bright calcium flocculi were replaced 
on the Up photograj)h by dark structures of similar, though by no 
means identical, form. There could be no doubt about the adjust- 
ment of the Hfi line on the second slit, since a prominence was shown 
on the photograph extending above the sun's limb. At a point near 
a sun spot a brilliant object appeared. The same bright object was 



RUMFORD SPECTROHKLIOGRAPH. 148 

fotiiul on a liigli-Ievcl Iv^, pliolooraj)!!, I)iil it <li(l not appear on a K^ 
j)hotograpli. This was confirmed by otlicr cxposiuvs. 

The results given by this first photogi-aph have been boi'ue out in 
subsecpient work. It is found that the hyih-ogen flocculi are in gen- 
eral dai'k. though they are sonietinies bright in disturbed regions, 
usually m the neighborhood of sun spots." 

CONCLUl)IX(i KKMAKIvS. 

In concluding, we may perhaps be j)ei-niitted to speak of a few of 
the numerous investigations which can be undertaken by the student 
of solar physics. If proper use is to be made of the numerous meth- 
ods of research which are now available, a large number of investiga- 
tors will be needed, working, if, possible, on some cooperative plan, 
at many stations Avidely separated in longitude. Even the adequate 
use of the spectroheliograph alone Avould be beyond the capacity of 
any single institution, for when suitably designed this instrument will 
furnish as many photographs of the sun as there are elements present 
in its atmosphere, and in addition to these many others which repre- 
sent the peculiarities of certain lines. For example, we have already 
seen that it will be desirable to ascertain in what degree photographs 
taken with enhanced lines differ from those taken with other lines of 
the same element. ^Vith a large image of the sun important results 
might be expected to follow from a study of photographs of sun spots 
taken with the aid of the widened lines and with bright lines or other 
lines which are peculiar to the spot. In vicAv of the constant changes 
which are going on in the sun, a' few photographs made in any of 
these ways will not suffice. What is Avanted are series continued 
through at least one sun-spot period, in order to discover the law^s 
which govern the intensity and the distribution of the various gases 
and metallic vapors. Furthermore, the great importance of eruptive 
phenomena, their comparative rarity, and the brief time in which all 
their i^hases are exhibited, call for special preparations and methods 
of work. Spectr()heliogra[)hs capable of taking several photographs 
at once through ditl'erent lines will be essential for an}^ suitable study 
of eruptive phenomena. If a chain of observatories Avell distributed 
in longitude could arrange their Avork so as to keep the sun almost 
constantly under observation, many important eruptions Avliich are 
now lost would be recorded. 

But it is by no means sufficient merely to take photographs of the 
sun with the spectroheliogi-aph. In order to extend greatly the range 
of the attack, and also to explain the spectroheliograph n^sults, 

" Many additional interesting details and conclusions regarding^ both calcium 
and hydrogen fiocfuli are given in the original paper and should be consulted 
by -the special reader. 



144 



RUMFORD SPECTROHELIOaKArH. 



vsimultaiieous observations, both visual and photographic, Avith other 
instninients are esseiitiaL For example, while a photograph is being 
taken with the spectroheliograph exposures on the spectrum of the 
region under investigation, for the purpose of showing the wddened 
lines in sun spots as well as the motions in the line of sight of the 
calcium A^apor in the flocculi, should be provided for. These must 
be made with an instrument of suflicient dispersion to permit the 
photographs to be measured Avith high precision. At the same time 
large scale photographs of the photosphere and spots, made by direct 
photographic methods, are needed for comparison wdth the spectro- 
heliograph results. Many bolometric studies are also required, as 
well as numerous other investigations wlfich will suggest themseh^es 
to the reader. The essential point is tliat a simultaneous attack 
should be made on solar phenomena with a series of poAverful instru- 
ments, each designed to answer definite questions, and thus to furnish 
some of the material that Avill l)e required for solving solar problems. 

But such an attack, comprehensive as it might be made, would be 
greatly hampered if the atmospheric conditions were not favorable. 
The difference betAveen the effects of good and bad seeing may be 
seen by comparing the blurred j)hotograph reproduced in fig. 1, 
plate VII, Avhich Avas the best that could be obtained at the time, with 
the (larger scale) photograph reproduced in plate vi, Avhich was 
made with precisely the same instruments and adjustments at a time 
when the conditions were unusually good. If such conditions as 
these latter could be had day after day for long periods of time, with 
occasional periods of eA^en finer definition, many questions now out 
of reach could be soh^ed. 

A report on the instrumental and atmospheric conditions needed 
in future w^ork on the sun may be found in the forthcoming Year- 
book (No. 2) of the Carnegie Institution. 

October, 1903. 



DESCRIPTION OF THE PEATES. 

The accoiuixuiyiiiii- illustrations aiv sclectod from the quarto pktes 
published in the original work and in some cases are reduced in size. 

SM 1904 10 145 



PLATE I. 

The liiimfovfl spectrohelioa;raph. attached to the forty-inch Yerkes refractor. 
The shaft which is driven by the decHnatioii motor may he seen at the riglit. It 
carries a jirooved i)ulley near its h>\ver end connected witli a simihir pulley at 
the end of the camera box by means of a round leather belt. On the same shaft 
with this second imlley is a spur .m-ar, which eni,'a,i::es with the two gears on the 
projecting ends of the screws that pass through the camera box. The keys used 
to operate the split nuts that clami) the plate carriage to the screws, the windows 
for observing the spectrum at the middle and at the ends of the second slit, and 
the screw-drivers employed to push forward the idate holder after the slide is 
withdrawn, are on tl«^ top of the camera box. At the left end of the box may 
Pe seen the door through which the plate holder is inserted, and the narrow slid- 
ing door in its outer face through which the slide is withdrawn, as well as the 
micrometer heads of the screws for controlling the width of the second slit and 
for moving it as a whole. The first slit, at the end of the collimator, is ;ilmost 
hidden from view by the metallic screen required to shield its mounting from 
the great heat of the solar image. Ijight reaches the first slit through a long 
narrow opening in this screen. Mounted on four posts above the screen, at such 
a height as to lie in the visual focal plane when the first slit is at the focus for 
the K line, is a narrow metallic plate, on which a line is drawn in the direction 
of dispersion. During an exi)osure, the limb of the .Sun is made to follow this 
line. At the end of tlie electric cable may be seen the switches used for operat- 
ing the declination motor, and (just below) the rod with which the mirror in the 
l)rism box is rotated. 

146 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Hale and Ellerman. 



Plate I. 




The Rumford Spectroheliograph Attached to the 40-inch Yerkes Refractor. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Hale and Ellerman. 



Plate II. 







Fig. 1.— Curvature of 
Lines in the Spectro- 
heliograph. 



Fig. 2.— H and K Lines on the Disk, in the 
Chromosphere, and in a Prominence '»). 



PLATE II. 

Fig. 1. — Full-sized reprodnction of a photograph of tho H and K lines in the 
solar spet'truin, made with the curved tirst slit. The twt) curved slits regularly 
einiilnycd with the s[)ectr(iheliograph to ciiiiiinate distortion of the solar image 
have a radius of 522 mm., ecjual to that of the r-urved lines here shown. 

Flu. 2. — II and K lines on the solar disk and in the chromosphere (radial 
slit). 

Fig. 2a. — ^hows llg and K3 (very faintly) in a prominence. 

147 



PLATE III. 

Fig. 1. — The K line on the solar dlslc and in the chromosphere at the limb 
(radial slit). The Itrisht reversals (Ko) are due to the tlocenli. Where facuL-e 
are present the continuons s])ectrnm is more or less strengthened. 

Fig. 2.- — Reversals of the 11 and K lines in the electric arc, showing the de- 
crease in width from the inner (dense) to tlic outer (rare) calcium vapor. 

Fig. 3. — Minute calcium Hocculi, resembling the granulation of the photo- 
sphere. The squares are lU" of arc on a side. 

148 



Smithsonian Report, 1904.— Hale and Ellerman. 



Plate 111. 





Fig. 2.— H and K Lines in Electric Arc, Showing 
Reversals. 




Fig. 1.— K Line on the Disk 
AND AT the Limb. 



Fig. 3.— Minute Calcium Flocculi (Hj). 

The squares are 10 inches on a side. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Hale and Ellerman. 



Plate IV. 




The Sun, Showing Calcium Flocculi i H-: Level), August 1 2, 1 903, 8'' 52". C. S. T. 



PLATE TV. 

E/itire disk of the Sun, as jjliotoKraplied Aimnst 12. 100?,, 8" .VJ-^' C. S. T. witb 
the IL line. Same size as original negative. The S(iuares of the half-tone 
screeuare too coarse to permit the smallest details to he shown. 

149 



TLATE V. 



Fio. 1. Low level (Hi) section of calcium fiocculi. showing bow these floc- 

culi appear to l)e made up of vertical colunuis of calcium vapor. 

Fig. 2. High level (IIJ section of the same Hocculi, showing (faintly) how 

the vapor columns seem to be bent over at the summit, as well as expanded. 



150 



'Smithsonian Repoft, 1904— Hale and Ellerman. 



Plate V. 




Kiu. 1. A'' 4(1'". Low III It-'vel. Slit at A396J 




Fig. 2. 3'' SI-". H... level, .-^lit at a3%8.C). Same region as tig. 1. 

MiiviuTE Structure of the Calcium Flocculi, September 22, 1903. 
Scale: Sun's (lianieter=0.890 meter. 



PLATE VI. 

Minute cnlcium flocciili. Hj level, siiowing tlieir normal appearance inider 
excellent conditions of seeing. 

151 



I'LATK Vn. 

l.'jf., 1. — i\,y fiiis i>|i(,ioj,'rii)»li tl)'' sc'oikI slit; waK set on flu' conlimioiiH spcr- 
truiii ill ;{!)li4. <:()ris<'<|iicii(ly no (locculi .ire sliown, llioiiu'li Hie fii<-ul;i' mtc l':iinll.v 
viKihIc. 'J'Ik' foiniK of llif l;ill<i- slionid In- conipjinMl willi those of the (lo<<ii!i 
In tlic oilier IlKureH. 

Vic. 2. — f/0\V K, level. Slil set :it :','.)2'.). 'I'liis kIiows the dense cjileinni \;i|ioi- 
not; l';ir jiIkuc the photusi/lieie. ('onipMi-e with 11;^. 1 inid note thiit ovoii at this 
low level the calcjuin vajtof overhanj^s and wonictinies coniplelely covers Kniall 
Kpols. 

152 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Hale and Ellerman. 



Plate VII. 




I'"ii.. 1. ll'':;2'". I'aciilii-. slit (III ciiiuiiiuijus siM-ciiuin .■it A;;'.tji, 



W 




Fl(i. 2. 11''22'". Culciuin flocfuli, low Ki lovol. Slit at A3929. 



Facul/e and Section of Calcium Flocculi, April 29, 1903. 

Hculu: .Sun's diameter =0.2.h0 meter. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Hale and Ellerman. 



Plate VIII 




Fig. 1. lO"" 28'". Cak-ium flocculi, higher Kj level. Slit at A3932. 



W 




Fig. 2. lit iim. Calcium flocculi, Ko level. Slit at a;39:«.8. 



Sections of Calcium Flocculi at Different Levels, April 29, 1903. 

Scale: Sun's diamcter=0.280 meter. 



PLATE VIII. 

Fro. 1. — Higher K, level. Slit at HOo^. Tliouirli taken before the photographs 
reproduced in Plate \'II, this itictiire further einpliasizes the differences noted at 
lower levels. The fact that tlu> clianiics ar(> proij;ressive largely eliminated the 
time element, which nnght otherwise he susix'cted of causing the oliserved dif- 
ferences. As a matter of fact, these tlocculi are (piiescent and slowly changing, 
dilTering very decidedly from ernptiv(> i)henomena. 

Fm. 2. — K., level. Slit at .''>0?)H.S. Mere the calcium vapor is very hrilliant 
and covers a larger area. The photograph contains distinct evidence of dark 
alisorhing masses at higher levels. I'erhaps the best instance of this is the dark 
tongue which runs somewhat north of west from the small spot south i)receding 
the largest one of th(> group. This tongue seems to form a part of an extensive 
dark area, which comi)letely surrounds the bright flocculi of the group. 

153 



PLATE IX. 

Fig. 1. — As remarked in the text, the contrast is too great in tliis photograph, 
and the appearance of the Itrigliter regions is deceptive. In reality the darlc 
regions in general represent the hydrogen tlocculi. though there may he a few 
places near the sj)ot where bright tlocculi are present. 

Fig. 2. — This cut represents more nearly the appearance of the dark hydrogen 
fiocculi on the negatives. As the slit did not coincide with the // line through- 
out its length, the tlocculi are not shown to the west of the spot. A small bright 
flocculus uuiy be seen at the extreme edge of the figure on the left adjoining 
the small spot. 

154 



Smithsonian Report, 19C4.-Hale and Ellernrian. 



Plate IX. 




h 



«# ^TiS 



* 



TTi: 



.i'' 







4t 



Fi(i. 1. yh 39°'. Hydrogen floceuli. Slit at center of 7/p. 



W 




Fig. 2. 2'' r>0<". Hydrogen floceuli. Slit at center of ///3. 

Hydrogen Flocculi, July 7, 1903. 

Scale: Sun's diameter=0.290 meter. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Hale and Ellerman. 



Plate X. 




Fig. 1. Ill' U'". HydroKt'ii flooculi. Slit at center of 7/y. liriKlit eruptive fidcculi 
west of spot. 



W 




Fic. 1'. :?i' 57'". Ciilcimii fldcnili, K... Ifvcl. Slit nt A:',<t:i3.s. 



Hydrogen and Calcium Flocculi, July 7, 1903. 
Scale: Sun's diameter=U.i;90 meter. 



PLATE X. 

Fig. 1. — Tli(> foutrast in this i)hoto.i?i';ii)li is more nearly what it should he, 
tli()u;;rli the ha( k.s^round is in general too hri.uht. Some well-defined examples of 
hriglit liy(lr(),i:('n Uocculi may he seen to the west of the si)ot, where small si)ots 
were develoiiin^' at the time. 

Vh,. 2. — Tlie contrast here is rather too j?reat, and for this reason the hack- 
i^round apju-ars too dark. The general character of the hright oaleiiim Hoccnli 
is nevertlK'less fairly well shown. The hright tongue extending into the small 
si)ot on the left is eruptive in character, and corresponds with the briglit hydro- 
gen Hocculus referred to in the description of fig. 1. 

155 



PLATE XI. 

Low-level photograph, showing the dense caleiiim vapor lying ,iust above the 
photosphere. In this i)hotogra|th very little of the pennnihra is eovered by the 
caleinni vapor, but evidences may be seen, esi)ecially in the sonthern part t)f the 
penumbra of the largest spot, of the eolumns of vapor which are greatly devel- 
oped at the higher levels. 

156 




CO M 

o 

0> OJ 



HI ■ 

I— ■* 



PLATE XII. 

In this photograph the calcium vapor is much hotter shown than in Plate XI, 
and the hesinniugs of eruittive ])henomena have hecome more distinctly evident. 

It is to he understood that although the changes going on in the eru])tive phe- 
nomena of the spot group prevent a i)erfect comjiarison of all the details of the 
successive i)hotographs in this and the sul)se(iuent series, the large masses of 
floccnli change so slowly in form that they may he compared without danger of 
serious erroi-. In general, the differences hetween the successive pictures are 
therefore due to differences in the extent and hrightness of the vapor at different 
levels rather than to changes in form which have taken jdace hetween exposures. 
In order to render possihle a satisfactory comparison of the high and low level 
tiocculi surrounding this si»ot, the matched pair of photographs, reproduced in 
Plates XV, X\ I, is given for examinatiou with the stereoscope. 

157 



TLATE XIII. 

TWs i)hoto£:raph, which ivi)rpseiits tho liiiili-level cah-iiim vajwr. should he 
coailiared with tigs. 1 and 2, IMate X. It will he seen tliat at this level the 
penunilira is almost eonipletely covered, while many of the smaller spots are 
lilotted out. There are also distinct evidences of dark floceuli. due to ahsorbing 
vapors at still his/her levels. The illustration necessarily fails to indicate the 
brilliancy of the hrit^hlest eruptive phenomena, which on the original negatives 
are easily distinguished from the ordinary tiocculi. 

158 



I 

I 




o ^ 



PLATE XIV. 

This pliotoEcraph. which shows the hydrogen flocculi surrounding the si)ot 
group, should he compared with lig. 1. Plate X. The hrighter regions are in most 
cases eruittive. In general, the hydrogen tlocculi in the less disturbed regions 
are dai-k, tliough they may perhai)s he bright or neutral where they overhang the 
penumbra, and cover some of the smaller spots of the group. 

159 



PLATE XV. 

The photograph rpin'odncocl in this pUxte ropi'oseiits tlie low level flooculi sur- 
rounding the spot yi'oi'P. ■■i'^ they appeared on October 10. The changes in the 
group may be seen by comparing this photograph with Plates Xl-XII. 

160 



I 




CO M 

o ■■ 



DC "- 

CD M 




o 3 



I- ii 



PLATE XVI. 

Tlie photoiiiaiih reprodiu-pd in this plate reprosents tlio medium level flocculi 
siirroiuuliiii: the spot jii-oup. as th(•.^ appeared on October 10. 'IMie chaiii^es in 
the group may be seen by eomi)aring this photogrpah with Plates XIII-XIV. 

SM 1904 11 l<il 



PLATE XVII. 

Tho difforence in lovol betwcoii I'hito XI and I'luto XII is too sroat to permit 
of a satisfactory study of the changes in form of tlie flocculi at different heights 
above tlie ])liotos])here. In the present series it is fortunately p()ssil)le to give 
an intermediate step. ol)tained by setting the second slit immediately outside of 
II.,; the level shown therefore lies between that of Plate XV and that of Plate 

xViii. 

PLATE XVIII. 

This ph(itogra|)h is given here in tlu' endeavor to bring out the bright 
eruptive tongues, hardly to be distinguished friiUi the less lirilliant tlocculi. 
The abnormally dark background n(>cessarily results from the deep i)rinting 
re(iuired to show the exceedingly brilliant details. 

162 




g 5 



O :7, 




o §> 



CONSTKUCTION OF LARGP: TELESCOrE LENSES." 



By Dr. C. Faulhaber. 



The tliroo principal instruments for the study of the heavenly 
bodies are the telescope, the spectroscope, and the photographic 
camera ; and since the two latter are made useful only as they are 
attached to the former, it is the telescope which we must still regard 
as the key to unlock the doors of the imiverse. Readers have all 
doubtless seen a large telescope, and many have had an opportunity 
of looking through one, for most observatories reserve certain hours 
for the public. Accordingly a description of the instrument as a 
whole may be omitted, and we will merely recall that, notwithstand- 
ing it is so long and heavy, complicated mechanical and electrical 
means are provided for pointing and accurately guiding the telescope, 
so that it follows automatically the moti(m of any chosen celestial 
object. But no less hard than the difliculty of providing these 
mechanical adjuncts is the optical problem of providing the great 
double lens called the objective at the upper end of the tube. The 
objective is the fundamental part of the telescope, on wdiose excellence 
the value of the whole instrument depends, and not only its quality 
but its size also is of the highest importance to make possible the 
observation of objects otherwise forever invisible. Hence it is that 
telescopes are designated, not by the maximum magnification which 
tliev can i)roduce, nor b}' their length, but rather by the diameter of 
their objectives. Thus one speaks of the 40-inch of the Yerkes 
Observatory, the 3C-inch of the Lick Observatory, and the 32-inch 
l^otsdam refractor. 

In order to study the construction of a great telescope objective, 
the attention of the reader is now invited to a great optical glass 
works, of which there are but three principal ones in the world, 
namely, those of Schott & Genossen, in Jena; Mantois, in Paris: and 
Chance Bros. & Co., in Birmingham. 



".Translated, by permission, from Prometheus, Berlin, Vol. XV, Nos. 34-35, 

1004. 

163 



164 CONSTRTTCTION OF LAROE TP^LESOOPP: LPINSES. 

To l)('i»iii tlu' process of construct ion a crucible of fire-proof clay, 
which aliviuly has been warmed Gradually for several days, is placed 
within a melting oven of peculiar construction. This oven is then 
closed and slowly heated to white heat, while at the same time the 
materials to compose the glass are admitted to the melting pot 
through a i^eehole about as large as a man's head in the wall of the 
oven. 

The material varies with the kind of glass to be made. Until the 
beginning of the year 18S0 only two kinds of optical glass were in use, 
of which one — the so-called crown glass — wascomposed of quartz sand, 
potash, soda, and calcspar, and the other — the so-called flint glass — 
was composed of quartz sand, potash, and lead oxide. There are now 
more than 100 vareties of o])tical glass produced b}- the intermixture 
of other materials, such as phosphorus, boric acid, magnesium, zinc, 
barium, antimony, which are distinguished by difi'erent properties 
of dispersion and refraction. The choice of the proper glass for the 
two lenses depends on the purpose which the telescope is to serve, 
and particularly whether it is to be emplo3'ed for visual or photo- 
graphic observations. 

About thirty hours is consumed in the introduction of tlie ma- 
tirals. If there be no mishap — for sometimes at the temprature of 
1,G00° to l,yOO° tlie melting i)ot cracks or even tlie stones of the oven 
burst — the im])urities are then skimmed olf from the surface, and 
for about fifteen hours the mixture is stirred by means of a hook- 
shaped, white-hot clay cylinder. 

When the ingredients of the glass are melted they have a tendency 
to separate in hiyers according to their specific gravities, and thus to 
destroy the homogeneitv reipiired for optical purposes. This dif- 
ficult}^ is chiefly overcome by the continuous stirring of the melted 
mixture. Ry repeated tests the moment is at length found when the 
charge assumes the pi-o})er color an<l degree of fluidity. When this 
moment arrives the farther side of the oven is opened and a two- 
wheeled ti'uck with long handles is backed up to tht» opening. T^vo 
l)rojecting [)ieces of the truck I'each out under a ring which is made 
for this ])urj)ose on the clay melting })ot, and the latter is carefully 
lifted from tlie floor of the oven. On account of the overflow of 
melted glass, which often cements the pot to the bottom of the oven, 
this is an operation involving a gi'eat risk that the fragile white-hot 
clay melting pot may break, owing to the shaking re(iuire(l to free it 
from the oven. 

The melting })ot is next moved over to a great circular iron mold, 
and is then set down upon the lloor, in order to reenforce the pol with 
an iron band. On opposite sides of the iron band are steel pins 
fitting on hooks attached to the truck. By means of this arrange- 
ment the pot is lifted above the mold and its contents poured therein. 



roNSTurcTroN of lakok tklkscotk lknsks. 105 

Conlrary to wlini miii'lit ])('rliiii)s be expected, (his ])roeess is aceoni- 
plislied with litde noise hevoml a slii>-ht crnckiiiiii' and riistlin<2: sound. 
This is the eidiniiiarnti!,' ])oiiit in (he wliole jji'ocess of i^lass niakin<r, 
and li'ives rise not only anion<>; nnaeciistonied onlookers, but also 
anionir the skilled workers themselves to mingled feelinj^s of great 
anxiety and e\al(ed admiration. 

The mold with its fiery contents is then covered with an iron 
plate and })ushed over to the cooling oven, which has in the mean- 
while been carefully heated and oix'iied ready to ivceive (he charge. 
Here the mold is lifted. by a tackle and thinist into the cooling oven, 
where, after the walls have been sealed u}) as tightly as possible, it 
remains from four to six weeks undisturbed. Very gradual lowering 
of the temi)erature is required, else the cooled mass might burst with 
the slightest touch, or at least show ])rejudicial strains in the interior. 

When at length the oven is opened the mold is fomid to contain 
a solid, feebly lustrous, milk-white plate, which is easily removed 
from its iron bed. 

There now begins a week-long jirocess of grinding and polishing 
of the glass plate ])re})aratory to a pi'eliminary examination as to its 
freedom from strie, bubbles, and conditions of interior strain. Ex- 
perience shows that in general only a part of such a plate is of optical 
value. This part is cut out by means of a glass saw and again 
heated till soft in a crucible, which corresponds approximately with 
the final form of the objective. After this comes a second gradual 
cooling during a period of several weeks and another rough polish- 
ing and testing of the (juality of the resulting plate of glass. 

In favoral)le cases the product is now ready for removal to the 
optical shop, but commonly there are ten or more unfavorable trials 
before securing a successful result in the manufacture of a disk of 
glass for a lens of 1 meter diameter. Since, as we know, there are two 
such disks of ecpial size required for a telescope objective, weeks and 
months of further work are rcfpiired for the production of the second. 
The process is in all respects the same, except that somewhat ditl'erent 
materials are employed for the mixture, corresponding to the differ- 
ences in optical properties desired. In outward ap])earance crown 
and flint lenses do not differ much, but one is somewhat heavier than 
th(> other. 

The descri])lion just given relates to (lie most modern methods of 
glass making as they would now be j)ursued at Jena in the manufac- 
ture of glass disks for a telesco[)e of i.'2i) meters a})ertui-e. In the 
older processes it was customary to melt a charge about three times 
as large as reciuired, and after this had reached the proper color and 
consistency, to allow the melting oven to cool slowly and thus to take 
the ])lace of the special cooling oven. On opening the oven the glass 
block would be found broken in sevei'al pieces, and if there was 



166 CONSTRUCTION OF LARGE TELESCOPE LENSES. 

none among these wliich would answer the jiurpose the process would 
then be repeated. AVhen a rough block of suitable size and quality 
was obtained it was put in a crucible of about the proper lens form. 
The whole was then again melted and cooled and then polished for 
testing. As an example of the cost in time spent in this procedure, it 
will be recalled that the Paris glass works required four years for the 
{production of the tAvo lenses of the 3G-inch Lick objective. The 
melting was done twenty times, and each time a month was spent in 
the cooling. On the other hand, the Jena glass works employing the 
improved processes, prepared both disks of the slight!}" smaller Pots- 
dam 80-centimeter objective in a few months. 

It maybe of interest to rehearse briefly the story of the rapid devel- 
opment of the industry of optical glass making in Germany, prin- 
cipally during the last ten years. 

The pioneer in the production of glass for astronomical purposes, 
according to purely scientific methods, was the renowned Joseph 
von Fraunhofer, of Munich (1787-1826). But it is only twenty 
years since Professor Abbe and the glass manufacturer. Doctor 
Schott, of Jena, took up the work where Fraunhofer laid it down, 
and succeeded in replacing the old flint and crown glasses by new 
varieties of glass, by means of which the chromatic differences of 
spherical aberration are nearly eliminated. The production of the 
new glasses on a commercial scale began in the autumn of 1884. In 
order to support the very costly preliminary experiments, the Prus- 
sian Government made considerable grants of monev^ in consideration 
of the national value of the work. This governmental support was 
required but two years, for the undertaking progressed favorably 
and the productions found recognition almost inmiediately in the 
whole optical world, so that soon not only (jcrman, but foreign 
optical establishments, placed most of their orders for material in 
Jena. Not only are the common crown and flint glasses made here, 
but also a great number of imin-oved crown and flint glasses, con- 
taining boric and phosphoric acids, to diminish the secondary sjjec- 
truni on the one hand, and on the other containing metallic oxides, by 
means of which the dispersion and refraction may be increased or 
diminished. An extensive exhibition of these products was witnessed 
by the visitors who attended the Berlin Gewerbe-Ausstellung in 189(), 
There were shown disks for the construction of telescopic objectives 
of 110 and 125 centimeters diameter, and these Avere the largest pieces 
of optical glass which had then been made. Not only is optical glass 
])roduced for all kinds of instruments of precision, but also there is3 
made at Jena glass tubing for physical, chemical, manufacturing, 
and medicinal purposes, and all sorts of chemical glassware, such as 
flasks, beakers, and retorts, besides cylinders for gas and petroleum 



OONSTRUOTION OF LARGE TELESCOPE LENSES, 1()7 

Ii<;htin<j:. Thciv aiv now eniplovod in (his industry nboul OHO per- 
sons, and the value of tlie yearly output r(>aclies ;^,0()(),()()() marks. 

AAV ai"e now prepared to trace to the fui'thei* staijes in the ])repara- 
tion of a iireat objective, and the attention of the reader is invited to 
the optical workshoj). Here the glass disks are first ground and 
j)olished on both sides ]>i-eparatory to a thorough testing. Foi- this 
purpose there is a machine with a vertical s])indle cariTing an iron 
])late. 

Upon this plate the glass disks are in their turn cemented with 
pitch, and above is a sectmd iron plate, the gi'inder, j)rovided with a 
spindle in the center. By means of this spindle the grinding plate is 
shoved hither and thither over the glass disk by machinery. The 
grinding material is emery powder and water. After the rough 
grinding is done the rough polishing on the same machine follows 
similarly, excepting that the grinding tool is replaced by a cloth- 
covered polishing tool, covered with rouge instead of emery. 

After this preliminary work, a careful investigation of the disks is 
made in the laboratory by the aid of the microscope and i)olarization 
apparatus. If the objective is good it must appear bright in the 
polariscope, w'ith the exception of being marked by a regvdar dark 
cross. If an irregular cross is seen or, in certain conditions, brightly 
colored figures of various shapes, the disk must be returned to the 
glassworks to be remelted and cooled. 

In case of a satisfactory outcome of these tests small pieces are cut 
off and prisms are prepared from them, Avhose refractive indices are 
determined by means of the spectrometer. Upon these measurements 
are based the accurate computation of the objective — that is to say, 
the determination of the four radii of curvature and the thickness — 
a tedious piece of work which requires repeated independent checking. 

After this begins the real preparation of the objective lenses, one 
of which is to be gi-ound conca^^e, the other convex, on the same ma- 
chine which was used in the rough grinding. This present procedure 
is similar to that already described, except that grinding tools oppo- 
site in curvature to the lenses and made of iron, brass, or glass are 
fed with finer and finer emery powder as the work approaches its 
finish. 

Since everything dei)ends on the proi)er guiding of the grinding 
tool to obtain the regular spheri(;al surfaces, the operating of the 
machine demands great experience and care, and the work requires 
frequent testing by the application of the spherometer. AMien finally 
the right curvature is reached, after many days of work, repeated and 
accurate testing of the lens is made by the Toppler '* Schlieren- 
methode " for small errors, nonhomogeneity, and other faults. 
■ The fine-ground lens is now put ui)on a lathe and centered by means 
of a fine adjusting crane. This centering consists of shifting the 



168 CONSTRUCTION OF LARGE TELESCOPE LENSES. 

lens about upon the spindle of the lathe until exact coincidence is 
reached between the optic axis (common axis of curvature of the two 
surfaces) and the mechanical axis of the spindle. Recognition of 
this condition depends on observing the reflections from the two 
glass surfaces, and accurate centering is reached when these reflec- 
tions do not move with the rotation of the spindle. When the right 
adjustment is made the edge of the disk is turned off true by means of 
a grinding band fed Avith emery and water, and bj^ this means the 
lens is reduced to the proper diameter. 

After the centering follows the fine polishing on a special polishing 
machine. The process is much the same as that of rough polishing, 
excepting that instead of a cloth-covered tool there is provided for 
each face a series of great pitch-covered plates. Frequent trials of 
the surfaces are made by means of so-called " test glasses.'' These are 
small glass plates ground and polished accurately to fit the desired 
curve; that is to say, convex for a concave surface, and vice versa. 
Their employment in testing depends on the following principle: 
If two closely fitting polished surfaces are laid one upon the other 
there is retained between them a thin film of air which exhibits the 
so-called " Newton's colors,'- seen in soap bubbles and similar thin 
transparent structures. The color is the same over th(> whole surface 
only when the thickness of the inclosed film is everywhere uniform, 
which only occurs when the lens has the same curvature as the test 
glass. At the beginning of the polishing the Newton's colors appear 
as rings of more or less width. By the proper use of i)()lishing tools 
of different sizes, and by suitable regulation of the stroke and velocity 
of the machine, the condition is finally reached wIumi a uniform 
color supersedes the rings, no matter where the test glass is laid upcm 
the lens. By such methods of measurement in terms of the wave length 
of light, deviations of thickness of only one ten-thousandth millimeter 
(one two-hundred-and-fifty-thousandth inch) can be accurately de- 
tected, a magnitude scarcely appreciable to the lay mind. It is 
obvious that the fine i)olishing in such conditions is an exceptionally 
difficult task, the more so that care must always be exercised to avoid 
all blemishes on the surfaces, such as scratches and the like, and only 
the most competent and experienced workers can succeed w^ith it. 
A concei)tion of the difficulties to be overcome may be found when it 
is said that the fine polisliing of a single lens surface takes several 
months. 

^^^len l)oth lenses have passed through the processes of fine grnid- 
ing and polishing they are inserted in brass or iron mountings which 
have meanwhile been prepared for tlieni and in which they lie sepa- 
rated by a small free space. Cementing together with Canada balsam 
or turpentine, as generally practiced with small lenses, and formerly 
with hirge ones also, has more recently l)een discontinued on account 



CONSTRUOTTON OF LARGK TKLKSCOPE LENSES. 169 

of (lio (lifliciilty of s('|):u':i(in<2: l:ii-<;c cemented lenses for subsecinent 
c'leanin<;. 

After the lenses have been plaeed in their cell there remains only 
the firial testin»2: in the telescope tnbe itself. I shall not describe the 
complicated centering apparatns employed in this test. The errors 
of an objective and their causes are numerous, and their discovery and 
(.'ori-ection demand great exi)erience and skill. 

In conclusion, we may inquire where the telescopes of largest objec- 
tives are located, and b}^ whom they were made. In the first place, 
there is the objective made for the l^aris Exposition of 1000, but not 
among the telescopes in present use. It is 1.21- meters in diameter, 
and the glass alone weighs 580 kilograms, of which the convex lens 
weighs 300 and the concave lens '2'20 kilograms. The cost of the two 
lenses was 75,000 francs. These disks were poured by Mantois and 
ground by Martins, both of Paris. Up to the present time the objec- 
tive has not been usefully employed. The second and third places, 
as regards size alone, are taken by the objectives of the Yerkes 
Observatory, near Chicago (1897), and that of the Lick Observatory, 
at Mount Hamilton, C"al., with diameters, respectively, of 105 and 
91 centimeters. Botli were }>oured at the Paris glass works and fig- 
ured by Alvan Clark in Cambridgeport, Mass. 

They are both satisfactory, though not prei)ared entirely on the 
basis of computation, but rather by repeated trials, and brought to 
their completion by the so-called method of local correction. After 
them in size comes the great refractor of the Potsdam Observatory, 
prepared solely for celestial photography and having a diameter of 
80 centimeters. This objective was poured in Jena and figured at 
the optical works of C. A. Steinheil S()hne, in Munich, in 1899. It is 
recognized to be of the highest order of merit and is a strong testi- 
jnony to the ability of German manufacturers in this line. The Pots- 
dam refractor has, in addition to the 80-centimeter photographic lens, 
a second visual lens of 50 centimeters diameter, and being thus a 
double refractor is perhaps the largest astronomical instrument in 
use in the world. Both of the great American telescopes are devised 
solely for visual purposes, and can onl}'^ be used for photography by 
tlie aid of auxiliary lenses Avhich cut off some of the light." 

Among other large objectives may be enumerated the Pulkova 
refractor, at St. Petersburg, by Clark, diameter 70 centimeters; objec- 
tive of the Observatory of Nice, of equal diameter, by Henry Brothers, 
of Paris; the objective of the Vienna Observatory, of 71 centimeters 
aperture, by Martins, and the Treptower objective, of 70 centimeters 

a The Yerkes telescope is used jis a ])hot()grai)hif' instninipnt by interposing in 
front of the plate a color screen for removing the violet rays and exposing plates 
sensitive for the yellow rays. 



170 CONSTRUCTION OF LARGE TP:LESC0PE LENSES. 

aperture, poured at Jena, fjronnd in jNIunich (189G), and costing 
55,000 marks. 

The objective of tlie Dorpat refractor, Avith 25 centimeters ai)erture, 
which, as it came fi-om the master hand of Fraunhofer, was regarded 
as a wonder of the world, can scarcely be counted among the large 
telescoj^es to-day, for already more than 100 exceed its dimensions. 
It would lead too far to menti<m them all, but it is not out of place 
to remark that there is work of great value also for the smaller 
lenses. Interesting studies of the features of the planets have been 
made even in recent times with smaller instruments. Thus S(liia])a- 
rclli, the famous discoverer of the so-called Martian canals, made liis 
earlier valuable observations with an 8-inch telescope, which Avould 
now be classed as a minor instrument. In planetary observation the 
advantages qf fine optical definition, together with good atmospheric 
conditions, combined with practiced eyes, are of more consequence than 
high power or great light-gathering capacity. The advantages of 
the largest instruments lie in the possibiliti(>s they afford of observing 
the fainter fixed stars and nebulae which lie at immeasurable distances. 



SOME REFLECTIONS SUGGESTED B^' THE APPLTCA- 
TION OF PHOTOGRAPHY TO ASTRONOMICAL RE- 
SEARCH." 



By II. II. TuRNKK. I). Sc, F. R. S. 



It is a fainiliai- fact that there arc epochs in the history of a 
science when it ac(iiiires new vio-oi-; when new branches are pnt forth 
and ohl branches bnd afresh or blossom more plenteonsly. The vivi- 
fying cause is generally to be found either in the majestic form of the 
discovery of a new law of nature or- in the humbler guise of the 
invention of a new instrument of research. The history of astron- 
oni}^ has been rich in such epochs, notable among them being that 
when Newton announced to the world the great law of gravitation, 
and that when Galileo first turned his telescope to the skies. 

We have within the last half century been fortunate enough to 
include another' great epoch in astronomical history, characterized 
b}' the bii'th, almost a twin bii'th. of two new scientific Aveapons— the 
spectroscopic and the sensitive film. It is, of course, somewhat diffi- 
cult and scarcely necessary to assign an exact date for the origin of 
either of these. The spectroscojjc was ])erhaps first systematically 
used on the heavenly bodies by Pluggins, Rutherfurd, and Secchi in 
the fifties, but we may trace it back to the early work of Fraunhofer, 
who described the spectrum of Sirius in 1817, or further back to th.c 
experiments of Newton with a i)i'ism ; and the dry plate, which in 
jjarticular has conferred such benefits on our science, had of course 
its pi-ecursoi's in the collodion plate or the daguei'reotype. But the 
greater ])art of the influence on astronouiy of both the spectroscojje 
and the photographic method dates fioui the time when the dry plate 
was first used successfully, not much more than a (pnirter of a cen- 
tury ago; and in that quarter of a century there have been compressed 
new advances in our knowledge which perhaps will comj^are favor- 

« Address delivered by II. II. Turner, D. Se., F. R. S., Savilian professor of 
astronomy in tlie University of Oxford, in the section of astrojjLysics at tlie 
•Coiisress of Arts and Sciences at St. Louis, on Wednesday, September 21, 1!)04. 
Reprinted from tlie Obesra\ tor.\ , Ijondoii, November-December, 1904. 

171 



172 PHOTOGKAl'HY IN ASTRONOMICAL RESEARCH. 

;il)ly with the work of any simihir period in centuries either past or 
to come. Tt is difticult to estimate at their true vahie historical events 
in which we \)h\y a part, and any review of such a period undertaken 
now nmst he necessarily imperfect, for we ai-e advancing so rapidly 
that our point of view is contiinially chan<>iiio-. p,iit it is an encour- 
aging thought that obvious ditliculties may enhance interest in the 
attempt and suggest kindly excuses for its shoitcomings. 

From the embarrassingly large number of })ossible topics which the 
period provides I have selected that of astronomical photogi-aphy, 
and I invite your attention to some characteristic features of the 
photographic method in astronomy, and some reflections thereupon. 
It is scarcely possible to avoid repeating nuich that has been said 
already, but I hope it will be clear that no claim to originality is 
advanced. In what follows I wish to claim nothing as mine save 
its imperfections. 

The advantages of the photographic method, which attracted atten- 
tion from the first, may be grouped under thi'ee heads — its power, its 
facility, and its accuracy. The lines of denun-cation are ill defined, 
l)ut tlie classification will help us a little, and I proc^eed to consider 
the groups in this order. 

The innnense power of the photographic method as compared 
with the eye arises from the two facts that {(i) by the accumulation 
of long exposures fainter and fainter objects can be detected, and 
that (7^) large regions of the heavens can be recorded at the same 
exposure. No property of the i)liotographic j^late has excited more 
marvel than the former — that it can detect oI)jects too faint to be 
seen even by our largest telescopes; objects of whose very existence 
we were in ignorance and should haxc i-emained in ignorance. Earh^ 
.successes have been followed up by others more striking as years 
have rolled on, as better instruments have been devised, and the 
])atience of the watchers has proved equal to greater strain. It is 
here -that the change from the '^ wet " plate to the " dry '" has proved 
most advantageous. The possibilities with the former were limited 
to the period chiring which it would icuiain wet; with the latter, 
exposures may be continued for hours, days, even years — not, of 
course, continuously in the case of astronomical photography, for 
the camera must be closed when daylight approaches; but it can 
be opened again at nightfall and the exposure resumed without 
fault. In this way objects of extraordinary faintness have been 
revealed to us. AVhen Nova Persei had flashed into brilliance in 
1901, and then slowly faded, long-exposure photographs of its region 
revealed to us a faint nebulous structure Avhich we could ncA'er 
have seen; they told us that this structure Avas changing in api)ear- 
ance in a manner which it taxed our ingeiniity to explain, and about 
which speculation is still rife. But a greater triumph was to come; 



IMIOTnORAI'HV IN ASTKONOM K'A I- KKSEAKCH. 173 

oven (lie spcct i-iiiii (if this I'aiiit object has lu'cii photojrraplicd. When 
we consider (liat in. (lie spectnmi each point of li,i>ht in the object is 
enonnonsly diluted by bein<j^ spread out into a Hni', the dillicuhy of 
(his undertakin<i' seemed ahnost pi-ohibitive; but it was not sullicient 
to prevent Mr. Perrine, of the Lick Observatory, from makinii; the 
attempt, and lie was (U'serxcdly rewarcU'd by success. 1 may b(! 
wrong in regarding this success as the high-water mark in this direc- 
tion at the present time, and it will i)robably be surpassed by some 
new achievement \ery shortly; but it will serve to illustrate the 
power of photography in dealing with faint objects. 

But may we here pause for one moment to marvel at the sensi- 
tiveness of the human eye, which is such that it is, after all, not 
left very far behind in the race? The eye, sensitive as it is mei-ely 
to transient impressions, is no match ultimately for the plate, which 
can act by accumulation. But with similar instruments the plate 
nuist be exposed for minutes or even hours to seize the impression 
of a faint object which the eye can detect at a glance. Th<n-e seems 
to be no reason in the nature of things why the eye should not have 
been surpassed in a few seconds; and in the future the sensitiveness 
of plates may be increased so that this will actually be the case, even 
as in the past there was a time when the sensitiveness was so small 
that the longest exposure could not compete with the eye. But this 
time is not yet come, and at the jiresent moment the eye is still in 
some departments superior to its rival, owing to this very fact, 
that though it can only see by glances, it can use these glances to good 
efiect. In the study of the planets the more clumsy method of the 
photographic plate (which, by re(iuiring time for the formaticm of 
the image, confuses good moments with bad) renders it almost use- 
less as compared with the eye; and again, Ave have not as yet used 
photography for daylight <)bser\ ations of stars. 

But there is another directi(m in which th(> photogi'aphic plate is 
immensely superior to the eye in power; it can record so nuich more 
at once." In the able hands of Professor Barnard, Dr. Max Wolf, 



oThis property lias been l)eautifully ilUistrntivl by n Icctun' cxiicriint'nt of 
Professor Barnard. He tbrows on Ibc screen :i pictnre of a \:\v^v nebula 
whuli the i)liotot,M-a|>iii<- l»late lias no (lllliculty in poi-trayin.^ all at once; but 
the j)icture is, in the (irst instance, covered up by a screen, exce|it for a small 
Mlierture only, a!id this ai>erture, he tells his audience, represents ail that can 
be seen by the eye at one time, iisin.n the .uiant telescope (»f the Verlces Observa- 
tory r.y moviuix the screen about, diflei-ent i)ortions of the picture may be 
viewed successively, as also liy niovini,' the telescope about in lookinji at the sky 
itself, r.ut wliat a revelation follows wlieti the screen is i-emoved .and the full 
irlory of tlic nebula is exhibited at a single .i,'lance: We can well understand 
that the true character of these objects was hoi)elessly misinterpreted by the 
eye usins the imperfect method of piecemeal observation, whiih alone was 
formerly possible. 



174 PHOTOGRAPHY IN ASTRONOMICAL RESEARCH. 

and others, this property of the phite lias l)een used to record the 
presence in the sky of A'list regions of neljulosity such as, we may 
safely say, the eye would never have satisfactorily portrayed, not 
altogether because of their faintness {for in one of his papers Pro- 
fessor Barnard tells us that he was actually led to photograph such 
a region l>ecause he had become vaguely conscious of it by eye obser- 
vation), but because .of their ditl'usiou. Il is noteworthy that these 
beautiful photographs were taken with comparatively humble in- 
struments, and we may be as yet oidy on the threshold of revelations 
still to be made in this directiou. 

Secondly, the photographic method represents a great advance in 
facility of manipulation. A familiar example may be taken from 
the domain of planetary discovery. In old time to recognize a new 
object among numerous fixed stars it was necessary either labori- 
ously to map out the whole region, or to learn it by heart, so that it 
was practically majDped in the brain. Now all this labor is avoided ; 
two photographs of the same region, taken without any strain on the 
memory or the measuring ability of the observer, can at a glance, by 
a pimple comparison, give the information that a strange object is 
or is not present — information formerly obtained at so much cost. 
Sometimes, indeed, the cost was so great that tlie information was 
not obtained at all. For fifteen years Hencke searched without suc- 
cess for a planet, and for nearly forty years after the discovery of 
the first four small planets, in 1807, no further discoveries were 
made, though hundreds were constantly crossing the sky, ai;d a 
dozen new planets are now found every year with little trouble. 

But though this instance of increase in facility is striking, it is far 
from being the only one or even the most important. Wherever we 
require a record of any kind, Avhether it be of the configuration of 
stars, or of solar spots, or of the surface of the moon, or of a spec- 
truui, the labor of obtaining it has been enormously reduced by the 
photographic method. Think for a moment of what this means in 
the last instance only — think of the labor involved in mapping one 
single spectrum by eye observation; of the difficulty of settling by 
such a method any doubtful question of the identity of certain lines 
in the spectrum of a star. A few years ago Doctor McClean an- 
nounced that he had found oxygen in the star ft Crucis. Up to 
that time this element, so familiar to us on this eai-th, had appeared 
to belong to us alone in the universe, for in no spectrum had its lines 
bwn detected. 'Jlie i)roof of its existence in ft Crucis depended on 
the identity of a number of lines in the spectrum with some of those 
of oxygen; and the measures were sufficiently diffictdt on a })hoto- 
gi-aph, so that for more than a year the scientific world refused to 
pronounce a verdict. How long would the case have dragged on if 
only visual measures had been possible? We may fairly doubt 



PHonxntAPHY IN ASTRONOMICAL HKSKAKCH. 175 

AvhethiM" a dcHiiito conclusion would c\-cr luivc been reached at all. 
15y the sheer facility of the new method of work we have advanced 
by leaps and bounds wjiere we could only ci-aw 1 before. 

Thirdly, there has been a oreat j>ain in accuracy from the intro- 
duction of photoii-raphy ; and it is this <|uality which is above all of 
value in the science of astronomy." 'I'he wondeid'id exactness of the 
photojTfraphic i-ecord may perhaps best be characterized by sayinir 
that it has revealed the deficiencies of all our other astronomical 
apparatus — object glasses and prisms, clocks, even the observer him- 
self. 

It has almost been forg'otten that in the early days the accuracy 
of a photograph was doubted. Even now it can scarcely be said 
that we know definitely the stage of refinement at which we must 
begin to expect irregular displacements of the images from distor- 
tion of the photographic film; but Ave have learned that they do 
not occur in a gross degree, and that other ai)paratus nnist be im- 
proved before we need turn our attention seriously to errors aris- 
ing from such a cause. Consider, for instance, what photography 
has told us about our optical apparatus, which we regard as having 
reached a high state of perfection. AVe are accustomed to think of 
properly made optical apparatus as being sufficiently similar in all its 
parts; it is tacitly assumed in the principle of the heliometer. for 
example, that one half of the object glass is sufficiently similar to 
the other. But a stock adjustment recently adopted in photograph- 
ing a spectrum for accurate measurement exhibits clearly the errors 
of this assumption. Photographs are taken of the spectrum through 
the two halves of the objective; and if they were properly similar 
the lines in the two halves of the spectrum should fit exactly. A 
mere glance is usually sufficient to show^ discordances. It is true that 
one of the photographs is taken through the thick half of the prism 
and the other through the thin, so that errors of the prism are in- 
cluded; but these, again, are optical errors. They are, however, 
not the only sources of .error which at present mask photographic 
imperfections. Glass plates are not fiat, and this want of flatness 
introduces sensible errors. Even with the great improvements in 
our driving clocks which were called for immediately photographs 
were to be taken — with electrical control and careful watching on 
the part of the observer— there is apt to creep in a " driving. error " 
which gives bright stars a s])uri()us displacement relatively too faint. 
We must get flatter plates, better driving clocks, and watch more 

a Two tliiiiijs limy be iiionsurea on a iihoto^a-apliic plate — the position of an 
object, or tlie density of the iniai^'e ; tlie foriiiei- lieinj? an indication of itH posi- 
tion in tlie lieavens, and tlie latter of its bri^litness. With the latter topic I 
■ do not propose to deal, for the reason that it is in the hands of a nuicli abler 
and more experienced exixmeiit ; bnt tlie former alone will provide enonsii food 
for I'eflectiou. 



176 PHOTOGRAPHY TN ASTRONOMICAL RP]SEARCH. 

carefully before we can certainly accuse our ijlu)toi>rai)lis of a failure 
in accuracy. Nevertheless, there are indications that Ave may be 
near the limit of accuracy even now. Examination of the reseau 
lines on various plates appears to show small displacements for 
which no cause has yet been assigned; and the end of our tether 
may not be far away. But as yet we have not been pulled up short, 
and there is hope that the warning- nuiy be, as on one or two previous 
occasions, a false alarm. 

Such being the accuracy of the photographic method, it is sur- 
prising that it should not as yet have been more fully adopted in 
that field of work where accuracy is of the greatest importance — 
Jiamelr, in what is called fundamental Avork, Avith the transit 
circle or other meridian instruments. The adoption of ucav methods 
is ahvays a sIoav process, and there are at least tAvo classes of diffi- 
culties Avhich hinder it. The first class has it origin in the in- 
stinct Iac conservatism of human nature, Avherein men of science 
difi'er little from their felloAvs. The second has to do Avith aA^ailable 
capital; and in this respect Ave are distinctly at a disadvantage 
compared Avith othei' men; for when a ncAV instrument of general 
utility is iuAented at once a large amount of capital is invested in 
Avorking out the details and improving them to th(> utmost, Avhereas 
for a scientific instrument no such funds are available. Think. 
for instance, of the money spent in perfecting the bicycle, and the 
time occupied in deA'eloping it from the earliest forms to those 
Avith Avhich Ave are noAv familiar — from the '' bone shaker " of the 
sixties through the high bicycle Avhich Ave saw tAventy A'ears ago 
to the modern nuichine. Think, too. how totally unexpected ha\e 
l)een some of the incidents in the history of this machine, such as 
the introduction of pneumatic tires. In the case of such an instru- 
ment, noAV universally adopted, if rapid development coiihl have 
heen secured l)y expenditure of money and brains, surely enough 
of both counnodities Avere forthcoming to attain that end; and yet 
simplicity and finality have i)r()habiy not yet been attained in a 
pei'iod of thirty yeai's. Wlien Ave comi)are the snuill amount of 
money and especially the small number of persons that can be de- 
A^ited to the pei-feclion of a new scientific method, such as the use of 
phot()gra})hy in astronomy, it will excite little surprise that progress 
during the same ]x>riod of thirty years has been sloAver. Tn com- 
merce old machines can be thrown on the sci'ap heap when iini)rove- 
ments suggest themselves; but who can all'oi-d to throw aAvay an old 
transit circh'^ The A'ery fact that it has been in use for many years 
renders its continued use in each succeeding year the more inii)ortant 
from considerations of continuity. 

It is doubtless for such reasons as these that little has yet been done 
in the Avay of utilizing ])h()tograi)hy for meridian obserA^ation. 



PHOTOGRAPHY IN ASTKONOMIt'AJ. KKSKARCH. 177 

Altlioiiali oiH' or two iiu ritoi'ious hcii-iniiino-s have been niadc, wliicli 
liiuc siilliccd to shoAV that lIuMv ai'c no iiisiiix'rahlc dinicultics in the 
way. n|) to the pri'siMit inomenl no mci-idian instrument of ivpnte 
is in iH'iiulai" work usiuii' the photoiiraphic method. iVnd this fact 
can not, after all, he comph'tely exj)hiined hy the reasons above inen- 
(iont'd. ( )i)por(nnilies for setting' up costly new insti'unKMits do not 
occiu- frecjuently in asti'onomy, but they do occur. In the last decade, 
for instance, large transit ciirles have been set uj) both at (hvenwich 
and the Cape of (jood lIo])e; but in neither instance has any attempt 
b(>en made to adopt the photoi>"ra])hic method. The Washin<i;ton 
( )bservatory was reconstructed well within the period since the <ireat 
advantages of photography have been recognized, and yet not even 
in the United States, the land of enterprise, was a start then made in 
a direction in which it is certain that we nnist some day travel. That 
day has probably been deferred by the stinndation of competing 
methods which a new one brings with it. When electric light was 
iirst introdnced into P^ngland the gas companies, stimnlated by the 
stress of competition, adopted a new and improved form of light (the 
incandescent gas) which put them at a much less serious disadvantage 
compared with their new rival. So when photography began to show 
what ncMv accuracy was attainable in measurement of star positions, 
it woukl ahnost seem as if the devotees of the older visual methods 
were compelled to improve their apparatus in order not to be left 
wholly behind in the race. The registering micrometer" was 

<■ We have been aceustonied hitherto to (leteriuine the position of a star by 
observing the instant when it crossed a fixed wire; but it has long been Icnown 
that two different oi>servers record systoniatieally different instants — they have 
a personal equation. Recently we have learned that this personal equation 
varies with the brightness of the star observed, and with other circumstances, 
and to make the proper corrections for it has severely taxed our ingenuity and 
involved nuicli work. Before the invention of photograr)hy we might well bear 
lliis with patience, since it seemed to be inevitable; but the photograi)hic itlate 
which is free from human errors, offers a wjiy of escape from all troubles, at 
the expense, no doubt, of some little experimetiting. but with every prospect of 
s]teedy success. Eye observation, which had borne this burden so long, must 
got rid of it if it was t(» march alongside the untrauuiieled ])hotograpliic 
method; and the suri)rising thing is that it has actually done so. The adojited 
device is extremely simple: Hejdace the fi.xed wii-e wbidi tiie star crosses by a 
wire which moves with the star and registers its own movements. The register- 
ing is done automatically, lint the motion of the wire is controlled by tlie 
observer, and then is still room for a new form of i)ersonal equation in this 
human conti'ol. Kut none manifests itself, probably for the reason that we no 
longer have two senses concerned, but only one. In recording the instant when 
a star crosses a wire we employ either the eye and the ear, or tlie eye and the 
sense of touch, and personal equation arises from the different coordination of 
the two senses in different people. But in making the wire follow the star the 
eye aloue is concerned, and there is no longer any room for difference in " latent 
period " or other coordination of two senses. 
SM 190-1 12 



178 PHOTOGRAPHY IN ASTRONOMICAL RESEARCH. 

produced by TNIessrs. IJopsold, with the astonishino- result that tlie 
troubles from personal ('(juatiou. which have so loui>- been a difficulty 
in all fundamental work. ha\(' pi'actically disa})j)eared. 

This bi>autiful invention has placed the I've onCe more in a position 
actually superior to the i)hot()i>'raphic j)late. for with the eye Ave can 
observe stars in dayliaht. and so- secure information of great impor- 
tance, whereas no photogi'aphic method of doing this has as yet been 
devised. And there is also the fact that for faint stars a long 
exposure would be re(iuired for what the eye can accomplish in a few 
seconds. 

Thus in one oi* two astronomic chamiels the effects of the rising 
tide of photography have scarcely yet been felt; but into all the others 
it has swept Avith ever-groAving force. Looking back over the thirty 
years of adA^ance, Ave may be well satisfied. ^Vith more funds, and 
especially Avith more men, no doubt moi-e could have been done; let 
us eA'en admit that we might have done better Avith the same funds 
and the same limited staff. But on the Avhole Ave liaA'e been fortunate. 
At a critical time, when Ave mighfhave felt the want of larger endoAv- 
ments acutely, the need was almost anticipated by a stream of bene- 
faction. If tliis stream had its chief source in the United States, its 
beneficial effects have poured over the Avhole world, and induced cur- 
rents haA^e begun to floAv elseAvhere. We uiay reflect Avith thankful- 
ness hoAV nuTch harder our adA'ance might have been but for the noble 
gifts to the Harvard, the Lick, and the Yerkes observatories, and 
earnestly hope that the cheerful expectations of a great American 
astronomer, that these are but the foreshadoAving of much larger gifts 
to science, may be adequately realized. 

May I noAv turn to one or tAvo of the problems Avith which this new 
deA^elopment of our Avork has brought us face to face? They are 
numerous and serious, and it is impossible to consider many of them, 
perhaps even the most important of them. One of the most pressing 
is the problem of rendering generally accessible the vast accumula- 
tions of material for study that have been suddenly thrust up(m our 
attention. Hoav aiv our photographs to be stored, preserved, and 
published? Even now troubles have gathered, and time Avill only 
multiply them. It is nuiny years since Professor Pickering drew 
attention to the difficulties in storing the ])hotographic plates taken 
at the Harvard Observatory. When many thousands of photographs 
haA'e been accumulated, not only the s])ace they occupy, but the actual 
Aveight of glass is an embarrassment. And there seems to be no doubt 
concerning the duty of accumulation. May I confess an early and 
mistaken view Avhich 1 formulated on this nuitter? T reasoned thus: 
The proper moment for making use of a jjhotograph taken last night 
is to-day. It is useless to defer the examination until to-moi'i'ow, for 
there Avill then be new jihotographs claiming attention. Hence it is 



PHOTOGRAPHY IN ASTRONOMICAL RESEARCH. 179 

unscientific (o take nioic pliotoiii-aplis than can bo dealt with imme- 
diately. This seemed ((» l)c a plausible ari»"ument and to show a way 
out of the difliculty. for if a ph()toiiTa[)h had once been adecjuately 
examined it need not be stored so car(d"ully, and thei-e would not in 
any case be many to store. But T^rol'essor Pick'erin<i' has demon- 
strated many times o\''r that the \i»'w is untenable. Ry taking photo- 
<>rai)hs almost recklessly and without any hope of dealinc; with even 
a fraction of them, he has created the possibility of tracing the his- 
tory of celestial events backward, ^^dlen new objects are discovered 
he can go to his shelves and tell us how long they were visible previous 
to discovery; and this information is so valuable that Ave must cer- 
tainly arrange our future plans with reference to it. It is quite cer- 
tain that we must be pi'epared to deal with enormous accumulations 
of plates, to store them in pro[)er order, and to catalogue them; and 
if it has already l)een found diflicult to do this for the collection of a 
single observatory during twenty years, what can we look for in the 
centuries to come? 

Possibly the second difficulty, that of preservation, may be an anti- 
dote to the first. It is by no means certain that our photographs 
will last long, and if not there will be a natural limit to the time 
during which they need be kept. Sir William Crookes has, however, 
reminded us that by toning them, by substituting sturdy gold for the 
perishable silver, we may prolong their life indefinitely, though this 
will, of course, sensibly increase the cost of each plate. As yet I have 
not heard of any toning process being systematically adopted. Our 
course is, however, comparatively clear in this direction. It would 
seem imperative that a selection of the earliest photographs, at any 
rate, should be carefully toned, so that they may be available for 
comparison in years as far distant as possible. Although this is a 
matter of detail, it seems to me to compare in importance with almost 
any practical question which may claim the attention of astronomers, 
and if some decision of the kind were the only outcome of this gath- 
ering I think we might be well content with the result. 

The question of i)ul)lication is chiefly one of funds, and is only 
Avorthy of special remark because these particular finids are so often 
forgotten in planning enterprises. I neetl not labor the point, for 
the experience of any astronomer Avill supply him with plenty of 
instances. The difficulties of publication lun-e much in conmion Avith 
those of storage. They Avill increase year by year, and even Avlien the 
m(mey for printing has been found the storage of publications re- 
ceived from other observatories Aviil itself become an embarrassment. 
There is. hoAvever, one Avay in Avhich some of the stress may be 
relieA'ed, namely, by efficient cataloguing. If Ave haA^e before us a list 
of all the photographs existing in the world, and knoAv that we can 
send for a copy of any one of them which may be required, it is no 



180 PHOTOGRAPHY IN ASTRONOMICAL RESEARCH. 

loiigor necessar}^ to have copies of all. This applies, of course, to 
other publications as well, and though we may take some time to 
grow out of the sentimental desire for a complete library', and though 
the existence of a few such complete institutions .may always be 
desirable, I venture to think that manj^ observatories will ultimately 
be driven to the plan of acquiring only what is certainly and imme- 
diately useful, depending on temporary loans from central institu- 
tions for other material. 

But there is a class of problems differing totally in character from 
these practical questions of storage and preservation of plates. A. 
period of suddenly increased activity such as we have been passing 
through in astronomy is not without important effects on astronomers 
themselves. The human element in our scientific work is sometimes 
overlooked and generally accorded only a subordinate importance; 
but, coming as I do from an old university devoted to the humanities, 
I may be perhaps forgiven for calling attention to a few human con- 
siderations. In the first place, I have felt some anxiet}^ lately for 
that very important body of astront)mers who are sometimes called 
" amateurs," though the name is open to criticism — those whose 
opportunities for work are restricted to a more or less limited leisure. 
it is a body which is somewhat sensitive to the feeling that astronom- 
ical work has gone beyond them ; that in the presence of large instru- 
ments and of the special knowledge acquired by those using them 
their own efforts and their own humbler instruments are no longer of 
any vahie. If I am right in supposing that this feeling has been 
called into existence lately by the rapid advances made in photog- 
raphy, it is certainly not for the first time. At [)revious epochs this 
•liffidence has found expression, and has, I am glad to say, been met 
by careful contradiction; but it is necessary to repeat the expostula- 
tion again and again, for the anxiety is apt to crop up with every new 
development of astronomical activity. 

The earlier days of photography Avere better ones than usual foi- 
the amateur; indeed, the introduction of the photographic method 
is largely due to the Avork of such men as Kutherfurd and Draper in 
America, I)e la l\\w and Common in I^ngland. lUit iu)w that we have 
passed beyond the stage when each new ])late taken was a revelation ; 
now that Ave are tolerably familiar with, at any rate, the nuiin tyi>es 
of possible pliotographs which can be taken Avith modest a2)[)aratiis; 
more esj)ecially noAV that Ave have begun to discuss in elaborate detail 
the measurement of star ])ositions or of stellar spectra, the old shyness 
is beginning to crop up again. But it is of the utmost importance 
that this shyness should be zealously overcome. Perhaps, after all, it 
is not sufficient to assert that there is still good Avork for amateurs to 
do, nor even to mention a fcAv instances of such Avork urgently re- 
quired; perhaps it should be made easier for them to folloAV Avhat is 



PHOTOGRAPHY IN ASTRONOMICAL RESEARCH. 181 

being done. Especially <1<) ^ve Avaiit more and hcttcr hooks, written 
l>y the best men on each subject. The ori<i:inal memoii-, thoii<j^h it may 
be the pro})er form of publication for tlie workers themselves, does 
not satisfy all re({uirements. There is much to be done in the way of 
extension and collation before the work can be [)resented in a form 
attractive to those who would o^ladly keep in touch with it if the 
process could be made a little easier. Huxley was constantly urging 
scientific men that it Avas not sufficient to attain results; they nnist 
also express them in an intelligible and attractive form. Of course 
it is not eas}'^ for the same man to do both. There are few who could 
have determined, like Schiaparelli, that the period of rotation of the 
planet Mercury was eighty-eight days instead of one, but there are 
fewer still Avho, after making the discovery, could have given the 
beautiful lecture which he gave before the King of Italy, developing 
fully in attractive detail the consequences of the discovery; and 3'et it 
is i)robably true that many more could make, at any rate, an attempt 
m this direction if adequate opportunity and inducement were pro- 
\ided. Could not a part of the sums available for the endowment of 
i-esearc-h be devoted to the endowment of text-books? It is, of course, 
an inducement to write such a book that it is a good thing well done; 
but in the case of a scientific worker this is scarcely sufficient, because 
tht^ same could be said of his continuing his particular work. If we 
ask him to pause and render the treasures he has collected accessible 
to others there must be some additional inducement. Publishers are 
not able to offer pecuniary encouragement, because books of the type 
I have in mind would not api)eal to a very large public. But why 
should they not be subsidized^ I do not think it need be a very 
costly business, if the money were placed in the hands of a central 
body to issue invitations for books to be written. An invitation 
would be in itself a compliment, and the actual pecuniary value of 
the inducement would shrink in importance, just as the actual amount 
of gold in a medal awarded by one of our leading scientific societies 
is not very seriously regarded. It may be objected that to ask the 
best men to write text-books is to set them to inferior work, and so to 
delay true scientific progress; but are we sure that the real march of 
science is being delayed ? There are pauses in a journey which merely 
waste time, but there are others without wdiich the whole journey 
may be delayed or prevented, as when a man should neglect to rest 
and feed the horse which carries him. 

But the development of photography has brought with it much 
more than a recurrence of diffidence in some amateurs; it has fore- 
shadowed a serious rearrangement of astronomical work generally— 
a new division of labor and a new system of cooperation. To quote 
one notable instance, a very small number of observatories could take 
enough photographs to keep the whole world busy examining or meas- 



182 PHOTOGRAPHY TN ASTRONOMICAL RESEARCH. 

uriiio: them, and wo are already face to face Avith the question whether 
this is a desirable arrangement. Let me give a concrete example of 
this modern situation. In the winter of 1900-1001 the small planet 
Eros offered a si^ecially favorable opportunity for determining tlie 
solar parallax, and some thousands of i)liotographs were taken at a 
number of observatories for the puri)()se. It is not yet very clear 
how a definitive result will be obtained from the mass of material 
accunudated, most of which is being dealt with in a very leisurely 
manner: but a small portion of it has l)een discussed by Mr. A. R. 
Hinks, of Cambridge, and one of the numy important results obtained 
by him in a recently jmblished paper (Mon. Not. R. A. S., June, 1004:) 
is this : That the plates taken at the Lick Observatory are susceptible 
of such accurate measurement, and so numerous, that a determination 
of the solar parallax from them alone would have a weight nearly 
equal to that from the whole mass of material. If the Lick plates can 
be measured and reduced, it will not much matter if all the others are 
destroyed. Whence we may deduce two conclusions : Firstly, that it 
is eminently desirable that these beautiful pictures should be meas- 
ured and reduced as soon as possible : secondly, that we nnist consider 
future plans of campaign very carefully if we are to avoid waste of 
work and discouragement of workers. It is tolerably easy to reach 
the first precise conclusion. I wish it were easier to arrive at some- 
thing more definite in regard to the second. It seems clear that we 
may expect some readjustment of the relations between the better- 
equipped observatories and those less fortunate, but it is not at all 
clear what direction that readjustment should take. One possibility 
is indicated by the instance before us. The discussion of the Lick 
photographs was not conducted at the Lick ObserA'atory, but at Cam- 
bridge. The price paid for the fine climate of Mount Hamilton is 
the accumulation of work beyond the powers of the staff to deal with, 
and the new division of labor may be for the observatories with fine 
climates and equipment to take the photographs and astronomers 
elsewhere to measure and discuss them. Professor Kapteyn has set 
us a noble and well-known example in this direction, and in view^ 
of the pressing need for a study of numy photographs already taken, 
it is to be hoped that his example will be followed, especially in cases 
similar to his own, where no observatory is in existence. If in such 
cases the investigator will set up a measuring machine instead of a 
telescope, he will deserve the gratitude of the astronomical world. 

But the case is not so clear when a telescope is already in exist- 
ence. Mr. Hinks had a fine telescope at Cambridge, and it required 
some self-denial on his part to give up observing for a tinu> in oi-der 
to discuss the Lick photographs and others. If the accumulations 
already made, and others certain to be made in the future, are to be 
dealt with, this kind of self-denial must certainly be exercised, 



PHOTOdKATHY TN ASTllONOMirAL KKSKARCH. 183 

l)ut it does not soeiu quite c-loiu- (hat it should always fall to tlie lot 
of those with a modest e(|uij)iueut. Considerations of strict econ- 
oMiv uii«2:ht suii'o-est this view, hut there is a human side to the 
ar«>-ument Avhicli is not unimportant. The dan<j:er that the minor 
ol)sei-\atories should feel their work umiecessary is even <>-raver than 
the similar |)()ssil)ility in the ease of amateui's already mentioned, 
and calls for prompt attention from astronomers generally if it 
is to be avei'ted. It is the more serious because of another set of 
considerations of a quite ditlerent kind, viz, the funds available for 
research show a rather alarmini>' tcMidency to accumulate in the 
hands of a few large observatories, leaving many astronomers who 
could do useful work without the means of doing it. A conspicu- 
ous example is aiforded by the present state of the work for the 
astrographic chart initiated in Paris seventeen years ago. On the 
one hand, a few of the large observatories have easily acquired funds 
not only for taking and measuring the plates and printing the 
results, l)ut for {publishing an expensive set of charts which will 
be of very little use to anyone; on the other hand, some of their 
colleagues have found the utmost difficulty in getting funds for 
even taking the jilates; others have got so far, but can not proceed 
to measure them; and very fev.-, indeed, have yet funds for ])rinting. 
If there had been a true spirit of cooperation for the general good 
in this enterprise, surely some of the funds being squandered on 
the comparatively useless charts would have been devoted to the 
proi)er completion of the only part of the scheme which has a chance 
of fultillment. I do not mean to imply that this would have been 
an ea3y matter to arrange, Init it is noteworthy that no attempt 
in this direction has been made, and that as a conseijuence a jirom- 
ising scheme is doomed to failure in one important particular. 
For though the survey of the whole sky to the eleventh magnitude 
may some day be completed, it will be sadly lacking in homogeneity. 
Some sections are linished l)efore others are begun, so that in the 
vital matter of e])och we shall have a scrappy and straggling series 
instead of a compact whole. 

Cooperation in scientific work, the necessity of which is l)eing 
borne in upon us from all sides, is nevertheless beset with difficul- 
ties, and no doubt we shall only reach success through a series of 
failures, but we shall reach it the moi-e rajjidly if we note carefully 
the weaknesses of successive a.ttempts. In the i)articular scheme of 
the astrogi-aphic chart, I thinl: an error which should be avoided in 
future was made by those wi)o have access to the chief sources of 
astronomical endowment. They have made the enterprise doubly 
difficult for their colleagues, firstly, by setting a standard of work 
which was unattainable with limited resources, and, secondly, by 
depleting the reserves which might have gone to assist the weaker 
observatories. 



184 PHOTOGRAPHY IN ASTRONOMICAL RESEARCH. 

It is easier to draw attention to these modern tendencies than to 
suggest a remedy for them. It may, perhaps, be questioned whether 
a remedy is either possible or necessar}'; it may be urged that it is 
both inevitable and desiral)le that astronomical observation should 
gravitate more and more to those well-equipped observatories where 
it can be best conducted, and that new resources will obtain the 
greatest results when added to a working capital which is already 
large. From the purely economical point of view of getting results 
most rapidly, these conclusions may be true. But if we look at the 
human side of the question, I hope we shall dissent from them; if we 
think first of astronomers rather than of the accunndation of astro- 
nomical facts I hope we shall admit that something must be done to 
check the excessive specialization and the inequalities of opportunity, 
toward which there is a danger of our drifting. We can not afford 
the division of astronomers into two types; one isolated in a well- 
equipped observatory in a fine but rather inaccessible climate, s])end- 
ing his whole time in observing or taking photographs; another 
in the midst of civilization, enjoying all the advantages of inter- 
course with' other scientific men, but with no telescoi)e worth using, 
and dependent foi- his material on the observations made by others. 
Some division of lal)or in this way is dcjubtless advantageous, but 
we must beware lest the division become too sharply pronouiiced. 
Will it be possible to prevent its undue growth by some alternation 
of duties? Can the hermit observer and the university professor 
take turn and turn about to the common benefit? The ])roposal is. 
perhaps, a little revolutionary, and has the obvious disadvantages 
of in(;onvenience and expense at the epochs of change, but I do not 
think it should be set aside on these grounds. 

I must admit, however, that I am not ready with a panacea. It 
has been chiefly my object to draw attention to some modern tenden- 
cies in astronomical work, hoping that the remedies may be evolved 
from a general consideration of them. Such questions of the rela- 
tionship of the worker to his work are even harder to solve than those 
we meet with in the work itself. But there is at least this excuse for 
noticing them on an occasion like the present, that they are to some 
extent common to all departments of knowledge, and our difficulties 
may come to the notice of others who have had occasion to consider 
them in other connections and may be able to help us. Or, again, 
we nuiy take the more flattering view that the human problems of 
astronomy to-day may be those of some other science to-morrow, 
for astronomy is one of the oldest of the sciences and has already 
passed through many stages through which others nnist pass. In 
any case, we must deal with these problems in the sight of all men, 
and of all the conse(iuences entailed by our lately acquired oppor- 
tunities none are more interesting and none can be more important 
to us than those afl'ectinc: the astronomer himself. 



RADIATION IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM." 



By Prof. J. II. PoYNTiNG, F. K. S. 



I ]ir()p()so to discuss this aftci'iioou coi'taiii efforts of tlio (Micrjify 
wliich is coiitiniioiisly j)ouriii<j: out fi'oai the sun on all sides with the 
speed of iijjht, the ener<jy which we call sunliofht when we enjoy the 
brilliance of a cloudless sky. which we call heat when we l)ask in it.s 
warmth, the stream of radiation which supports all life on our 
i>"lobe and is the sourc(> of all our eneroy. 

As we all know, this ceaseless stream of eneroy is a form of wave 
motion. If we pass a l)eam of sunlio-ht or its efpiivalent, the beam 
from an electric arc, through a })rism, the disturbance is analyzed 
into a spectrum of colors, each color of a different wave length, the 
length of wave changing as we go down the spectrum from, say, one 
thirty-thousandth of an inch in the red to one eighty-thousandth of 
an inch in the blue or violet. 

But this visible spectrum is merely the part of the stream of radia- 
tion which affects the eye. Beyond the violet are the still shorter 
waves which affect a jihotographic plate or a fluorescent screen, and 
will pass through certain substances opaque to ordinary light. Here, 
for instance, is a filter devised l)y Bi'ofessor Wood which stops visi- 
ble raj's, but allows the shortei- invisible waves to pass and excite 
the fluorescence of a })latinocyanide screen. 

Again, beyond the red end are still longer waves, which are present 
in very considerable amount, and can be rendeivd evident by their 
heating effect. We can easily filter out the visible rays and still 
leave these long waves in the beam by passing it through a thin sheet 
of vulcanite. A piece of ])hos))horus ])laced at the focus of these 
invisible rays is at once fired, or a thermometer quickly I'ises in tem- 
perature. The waves which have been observed and studied up to 
the present time range over some nine octaves, from the long waves 
described to the section yesterday by Professor Rubens, waves of 

oAfternooii nildress <Ielivere<l at the Canibridse meeting of the British Asso- 
ciation, Aiignst 28. 1004. Reprinted from author's corrected copy. 

185 



186 RADIATION IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM. 

which there are only 400 in an inch, down to the short waves found 
by Schumann in the radiation given off by liydrogen under the 
influence of the electric dischar<>e, waves of which there are a quarter 
of a million in an inch. No doubt the rano-e will be extended. 

Eadiant eneroy consists of a mixture of any or all of these wave 
lengths, but the eye is only sensitive at the most to a little more than 
one octave in the nine or more. 

This radiation is emitted not only by in.candescent bodies such as 
the sun, the electric arc, or flames. All bodies are pouring out radiant, 
energy, however hot or cold they may be. In this room we see 
things by the radiation which they reflect from the daylight. But, 
besides this borrowed radiation, every surface in the room is send- 
ing out radiation of its own. Energy is pouring forth from Avails, 
ceiling, floor, rushing about with the speed of light, striking against 
the opi)osite surfaces, and being reflected, scattered, and absorbed. 
And though this radiation does not affect our eyes, it is of the utmost 
importance in keeping us warm. Could it be stopped, Ave should 
soon be driven out by the intense cold, or remain to be frozen to 
death. 

As the temperature of a body is raised, the stream of radiation it 
pours out increases in quantity. But it also changes in (}uality. 
Prol)ably the surface ahvays sends out waves of all lengths from 
the longv^st to the shortest, but at first, Avhen it is cold, the long Avaves 
alone ai-e appreciable. As it gets hotter, though all the AvaA^es become 
more intense, the shorter ones increase most in intensity, and ulti- 
mately they become so prominent that they affect our sense of sight, 
and then Ave say that the body is red or Avhite hot. 

The quality of the stream depends on the nature of the surface, 
some surfaces sending out more than others at the same temperature. 
But the stream is the greatest from a surface Avhich is, Avhen cohl, 
quite l)lack. Its blackness means that it entirely absorbs Avhate\'er 
radiation falls upon it, and such a surface Avhen heated sends out 
radiation of vvovy kind, and for a giA^en temperature each kind of 
radiation is present to the full extent — that is. no surface sends out 
more of a giA'en wave length than a black sui'face at a giA^en tempera- 
ture. 

A very simple experiment shows that a black surface is a better 
radiator, or poni-s out more energy Avhen hot, than a surface Avhich 
ch)es not absorb fully, l.'ut reflects nnu-h of the radiation which falls 
upon it. If a platinum foil Avith some black marks on it be heated 
to redness, the marks, black Avhen cold, are much brighter than the 
surromiding metal when hot; they are, in fact, i)ouring out nnu'h 
more visible i-adiation than the metal. 

It is with these black surfaces that I am concerned to-day. But, 
inasnuich as it seems absurd to call them bhick Avhen they are Avhite 



RADIATION IN THK SOLAR SYSTEM. 



187 



hot. T pi-cfci- tt) cull tliciii full radiiitoi-s. since llicv nidiMlc iiiot'c 
fully than any olhcis. 

For a loiiii' time i)ast (.'xperiiiiciits ha\(' hct'ii iiiaih' to seek a law 
coniu'ctini!,' the radiation or energy How IVoiu a black oi' fully radiat- 
ing- surface with its temperature. P>ul it was only twenty-hve years 
a<>-o tiiat a law was sujiiijested by Stefan which agrees at all satisfac- 
torily with experiment. This law is that the stream of energy is 
l)roi)ortional to the fourth power of the temperature, reckoned from 
the absolute zero 2T:i° below freezing point on the centigrade scale. 
This suggestion of Stefan sei-ved as the starting point of new and 
most fertile researches, both theoretical and practical, and we are 
o-lad to Avelcome to this meeting Professors Wien, Lummer, and 
Rubens, who have all done most brilliant w^ork on the subject. 

Among the researches on radiation recently carried out is one by 
Kurlbaum, in wdiich he determined the actual amount of energy 
issuing from the black or fully radiating surface per second at 100° 
C., and therefore at any temperature. 

Here is a table which gives the amount at xarious temperatures, 
as determined by Kurlbaum: 

Rate ofjiow of energy from 1 vni'^ <>//»//// radiaflinj or " hldck" surface. 



Absolute temperature. 



0" 

1(X)° air boils 

300'' earth's surface. 

l,mr red heat 

3,(K)0'' arc carbon 

6,000° ... 

6,250° 



Grams of water 

heated 1° per 

secpnd. 



Calories. 
0. 000000 

(i.(KK)iaT 

0.01(«(IO 

l(i:{. 000(100 

1,650.{KXK)00 
L9mO(KXXK) 



As an illustration of the '• fourth power law," let us see what value 
it w ill give us foi- the tempei-ature of the sun, assuming that lie is a 
full radiator, or that his surface, if cooled down, would be quite 
black. 

AVe can measure ai)])roximately the stream of energy which the 
sun is pouring out by intercepting the beam falling on a surface 
exposed to full sindight, lnea^ul•ing the heat given to that surface 
per second, and then calculating what fraction the Ix'ani is of the 
whole stream issuing from tlie sun. 

This was hrst done by Pouillet, and his method will serve to illus- 
trate the i)rinciple of all other methods. 

In his ai)[)aratus the sunlight fell full upon a box containing 
water, and the rate at which the water rose in temperatui'e gave the 
energy- in the stream of solar radiation falling on the box. 



188 RADIATION IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM. 

Simple as the experiment appears, the determination is beset with 
difficulties, the chief being the estimation of the fraction of the 
energy intercepted by the atmosphere, and Ave are still unable to 
give a very definite value. Indeed, we can not yet say whether the 
outflow of energy is constant or whether it varies. In all probability, 
however, it does A^ary, and Professor Langley, who has devoted years 
of work to the subject, has recently obtained evidence indicating 
quite considerable variation. 

We may, however, assume that Ave are not very far from the true 
A'alue if we say that the stream of radiation from the sun falling 
perpendicularly on 1 cm- outside the earth's atmosphere Avill heat 
1 gm. of water one twenty-fourth of a degree centigrade every 
second, or will give one tAventy-fourth of a calory per second. 

NoAv, the area of a sphere round the sun at the distance of the 
earth is 4(5,000 times the area of the sun's surface. The energy from 
1 cm- of the sun thus passes through -t('),000 cm- at the surface of the 
earth. It is therefore 4(),000 multiplied by one tAventy-fourth calories, 
or 1,920 calory-seconds. But from the table already given a black sur- 
face at (^SnO*^ absolute, say 6,000° C, giA^es 1,1)30 calories per second, 
or the temperature of the vSun's radiating surface is 0,000°, if he is a 
full radiator — and there is good reason to suppose that no great erroi- 
is made in taking him to be one. 

Let us noAv take another illustration of the fourth poAver hnv. 

Imagine a little black body Avhich is a good conductor of heat placed 
in full svndight at the distance of the earth. I^et it be 1 cm- in cross 
section, so that it is receiving one tAventy- fourth of a calory per 
second. 

It will soon Avarm up to such a temperature that it gives out just as 
much as it receiA^es, and since it is so small heat will rapidly flow 
through it from side to side, so that it Avill all be v^ery nearly at the 
same temperatui-e. A sphei-e 1 cm- in cross section has area 4 cm", 
so that it must l)e giving out from each square centimeter of its 
surface ^V= ^-0104 calory each second. From the table above it Avill 
l)e seen that this corresponds very nearly indeed to a temperature of 
300° absolute or 27° C, say 80° F. 

It is to be noted that this only applies to a little round body. A 
flat plate facing the sun Avould be about ()0° C. hotter, Avhile if it Avere 
edgeAvise to the sun it might l)e very much colder. 

Let us noAv see what Avould be the temperature of the small black 
sphere at other distances from the sun. It is easily seen that inas- 
much as the heat received, and therefore that giA^en out, varies 
inversely as the square of the distance, the temperature, by the fourth 
IWAver laAV. Avill vary iuAersely as the squai'e root of the distance. 

Here is a table of tenii)eratures of small black spheres due to solar 
radiation : 



RADIATION IN THK SOLAR SYSTEM. 



189 



Distance from siiu's center. 


Temperatm-e, centigrade. 


8J million miles. 


1 , aX)" , cast iron melts. 
327°, lead nearly melts. 
210°, tin nearly melts. 
H()°,al(!ohol Ijoils freely. 
27°, warm summer day. 

»)°, arctic cold. 
—219°, nitrogen frozen. 




At Mercury's distance 

At Voniis's distiuico 


At earth's distance .-. 

At Mars's distance — 

At Neptune's distance 



We soo from this table that the temperature at the earth's distance 
is remai-kahly near the average temi)eratiire of the earth's surface, 
whieh is usually estimated as about IC" C, or ()0° F. This can hardly 
be regarded as a mere coincidence. Tlie sui'face of the earth receives, 
Ave know, an amount of heat from the inside almost infinitesimal com- 
pared with that which it receives from the sun, and on the sun, there- 
fore, we depend for our temperature. The earth acquires such a tem- 
perature, in fact, that it radiates out what it receives from the sun. 
The earth is far too great for the distribution of heat by conduction 
to play any serious part in equalizing the temperature of different 
regions. But the rotation about its axis secures nearly uniform tem- 
perature in a given latitude, and the movements of the atmosphere 
tend to equalize temperatures in different latitudes. Hence we should 
expect the earth to have, on the average, nearly the temperature of 
the small black body at the same distance, slightly less because it 
reflects some of the solar radiation, and we find that it is, in fact, some 
10° C. less. 

Professor Wien was the iirst to point out that the temperature of 
the earth has nearly the value which we should expect from the 
fourth power law. 

Here is a table showing the average temi)eratures of the surfaces of 
the first four planets on the supposition that they are earth-like in all 
their conditions: 

Tabic of tiiiipcnttun's <if ((irtli-likc phniclK. 

°C. 

Mercury ^-'^ 

Venus '»•> 

Earth 1" 

Mars — 3S 

The most interesting case is that of Mars. He has, we know, a day 
nearly the same in length as ours. His axis is inclined to the ecliptic 
only a little more than ours, and he has some kind of atmosphere. It 
is exceedingly difficult to suppose, then, that his average temperature 
can differ much from — 38° C. His atmosphere may be less pro- 
tective, so that his day temperature may be higher, but then, to com- 
pensate, his night temperature will be lower. Even his highest equa- 



190 RADIATION IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM. 

torial teinper.iliii'e can not be much higher than the average. On 
certain suppositions I find that it is still 20° beloAv the freezing point, 
and until some new conditions can be pointed out which enable him to 
establish far higher temperatures than the earth would have at the 
same distance it is hard to belicAe that he can have polar caps of 
frozen water melting to li(|uid in his summer and filling rivers or 
canals. Unless he is very ditl'erent from the earth, his whole surface 
is below the freezing point. 

Let us noAv turn from these temperature effects of radiation to an- 
other class of effects, those due to pressure. 

More than thirty years ago Clerk Maxwell showed that on his elec- 
tromagnetic theory of light, light and all radiation like liglit should 
press against any surface on which it falls. There should also be a 
pressure back against any surface from which radiation is reflected 
or from which it is issuing as a source, the value in every case being 
equal to the energ^^ in a cubic centimeter of the stream. The exist- 
ence of this pressure was fully demonstrated independently by Lebe- 
dew and by Nichols and Hull some years ago in brilliant experiments 
in which they allowed a beam of light to fall on a suspended disk in 
a vacuum. The disk was repelled, and they measured the repulsion 
and found it to be about that required by Maxwell's theory. Nichols 
and Hull have since repeated the experiment with greater exactness, 
and there is now no doubt that the pressure exists and that it has 
Maxwell's value. 

The radiation, then, poured out by the sun is not only a stream of 
energy, but it is also, as it were, a stream of pressure pressing out the 
heavenly bodies on Avhicli it falls. Since the stream thins out as it 
diverges, according to the inverse square of the distance, the pressure 
on a given surface falls off according to the same law. We know the 
energy in a cubic centimeter of sunlight at the distance of the earth, 
since, moving with the velocity of light, it will supply one twenty- 
fourth of a calory per second. It is easy to calculate that it will 
j)ress with a force of 6 b}^ 10 "' degree on a square centimeter, an 
amount so small that on the whole earth it is but 75,000 tons, a mere 
trifle compared with the 8,000,000 billion tons with which the sun 
pulls the earth by his gravitation. 

But now notice the remarkable effect of size on the relation between 
the radiation pressure and the gravitative i)ull. One is on the sur- 
face and |)ro])ortional to the surface, while the other penetrates the 
surface and pulls every grain of matter throughout the whole volume. 

Supi)ose we could divide the eai'th up into eight equal glolx's. Each 
would ha\'e half the diameter of the earth and a (piarter the surface. 
The eight would expose twice the surface which the earth exposes, and 
the total radiation pressure would be doubled, while the total gravi- 
tative pull would be the same as before. Now divide up each of the 



RADIATION IN TH K SoLAK SYSTEM. 



191 



cio-lit into cio-ht moi-c ('(|ii:il ololtcs. Xiz-aIw (lie nu I in (ion pressure 
would 1h' iloiihlcd. while ii,r:i \ i(;it ioii would Itc llic siiiiic. 

Contiiiiio the process, aiul it is evident that by siuressive division 
we, slioidd at last an-ive at o-lobes so small and witli total sui-faces 
so t>-i-ea( that the pressure of the radiation would halaiice the pidl 
of oravitatioii. Mere arithmetic shows that tliis balance^ would 
occur when the earth was divided uj) into little spheres each one forty- 
thousandth of a centimeter in diameter. 

In other Avords, a little si)eck one foi'ty-thousandth of a centi- 
meter, say one one-hundred-thousandth of an inch in diameter-, and of 
density ('(jual to that of the earth, would be neither attracted nor 
repelled by the sun. 

This balance would hold at all distances, since both would vary 
in the same way with the distance. Oui- arithmetic comes to this, 
that if the earth wei-e spread out in a thin si)herical shell with radius 
about four times the distance of Neptune, the i-epulsion of sunlight 
falling on it would balance the inward pull by the sun and it would 
have uo tendency to contract. 

With further division repulsion would exceed attraction, and the 
i:»articles would be driven away. But I nnist here say that the law 
of repulsion does not hold down to such line divisi(m. The repulsion 
is somewhat less than we have calculated, owing to the diU'raction of 
the light. 

Some very suggestive speculations with regard to comets' tails 
have arisen from these considerations, and to these Professor Boys 
directed the attention of section A last year. We may imagine that 
the nucleus of a comet consists of small meteorite^. AAlien these 
come near the sun they are heated and explosions occur, and fine 
dust is produced not previously present. If the dust is sulHciently 
fine, radiation may overpower gravitation and drive it away fi-om the 
sun, and Ave may have a manifestation of this expelled dust in the 
tail of the comet. 

I do not, however, want to dwell on this to-day, but to look at the 
subject in another way. 

Let us again introduce our small black sphere, and let us make 
it 1 cm.- in cross section, l.i;') cm. in diameter, and of the density 
of the earth. The gravitation pull on it is forty-two thousand times 
the radiation pressure. 

Now let us see the effect of size on the radiating body. Let us 
halve the diameter of the sun. lie would then have one-eighth 
the mass and one-cpiarter the surface. Or. while his jndl was re- 
duced to one-eighth, his radiation push would only be reduced to 
one-quarter. The pull would now be only twenty-one thousand 
times the push. Halve the diameter again, and the pull would be 
only ten thousand five hundred times the push. Reduce l!ie diam- 



192 RADIATION IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM., 

eter to one forty-two-thoiisandth of its orignal value, that is, to 
about -20 miles, and the pull would ecjual the push. 

In other words, a sun as hot as ours and 20 miles in diameter would 
repel bodies less than 1 cm. in diameter, and could oidy hold in those 
which were lar<>er. 

But it is, of course, absurd to think of such a small sun as this hav- 
ing so high a temperature as (),000°. Let us then reduce the tempera- 
ture to one-twentieth, say 80(3° absolute, or the temperature of the 
earth. Then the radiation Avould be reduced to the fourth power of 
one-twentieth, or one one-hundred-and-sixty-thousandth, and ihe 
diameter would have to be reduced to one one-hundred-and-sixty- 
thousandth of 'iO miles, or about 20 cm., say 8 inches, when again 
radiation would balance gravitation. 

It is not very difficult to show that if we had two equal spheres each 
of the density and temperature of the earth they would neither attract 
nor rep<d each other — their radiation pressure would l)alance the 
gravitative pull — when their diameters were about 2.20 cm., when, in 
fact, they were about the size of large marbles. 

It must be remembered that this is only true for spheres out in 
space receiving no appreciable radiation from the surrounding region. 

It would appear that we have arrived at a result of some impor- 
tance in considering the aggregation of small meteorites. Imagine a 
thinly scattered stream of small meteorites at the distance of the earth 
from the sun. Then, even if they be as large as marbles, they may 
have no tendency to move together. If they are smaller the^^ may 
even tend to move apart and scatter. 

In conclusion, let me mention one more effect of this radiation pres- 
sure. You will remember that radiaticm presses back against any 
surface from wdiich it issues. If, then, a sphere at rest in space is 
radiating equally on all sides it is pressed equally on all sides, and the 
net result is a balance between the pressures. But suppose that it is 
moving. It is following up the energy Avhicli it pours forth in L'ront, 
crowding it into a smaller spa(;e than if it were at rest, making it 
more dense. Hence the pressui-e is slightly greater, and it can be 
shown that it is greater the greater the velocity and the higher the 
temperature. On the other hand, it is draAving away from the energy 
Avhich it i)ours out behind, thinning it out, as it were, and the pressure 
at the back is slightly less than if the sphere were at rest. 

The net result is a force opposing the motion, a force like a viscous 
friction, always tending to reduce the s|)eed. 

Thus calculation shows that there is a i-etarding force on the earth 
as it moves along its orbit amounting in all to about 2,500 kgm. Not 
very serious, for in billions of years it will only reduce the velocity 
bv one in a million, and it will onlv have serious effects if the life of 



RADIATION IN THE SOLAR SYSTKM. 193 

(he earth is prolonii-cd at its ])ros(Mit tcnipiM-atiii-c to liiiii<lr(Mls of bil- 
lions of years. 

l)iit here aiiiiiii si/(> is o,verythin<>-. Reduce the diameter of the 
luoviny hody. and the retarding effect increases in proportion to the 
i'e(hicti()n. If the earth ^Yere reduced to the size of a marble, the 
effect would he appreciable in a hundred thousand years. If it were 
rechiced to a spcck of dust a tliousandth of a centimeter in diameter, 
the effect would be ajipreciable in a hundred years. 

Note what the elfect wouhl be. Imaiiine a dust particle shot out 
rrt)m the earth and left behind to circuhite on its own account round 
the sun. It would be heated by the sun and would be radiating out 
on all sides. As it journeyed forward there would be a resisting 
force teiuling to stop it. But instead of acting in this way the resist- 
ance would enable the sun to pull the particle inward, and the fall 
inward would actually increase the velocity. This increase in the 
velocity would increase the resistance, and at the same time the 
ai)})i"oach to the sun Avould raise its temperature, increase the radia- 
tion, and so increase the resistance still further. The particle would 
therefore move in a mere and more rapid orbit, and ultimately it 
would fall into the sun. Small marble-sized meteorites would fall in 
from the distance of the earth probably in a few million years. 
Small particles of dust would be swept in in a few thousand years. 

Thus the sun is ever at work keeping the space round him free 
from dust. If the particles are very minute he drives them forth into 
outer space. If they are larger he draws them in. It is just possible 
that we have evidence of this drawing in in the zodiacal light, that 
vast dust-like ring which stretches from the sun outwards far beyond 
the orbit of the earth and is at once the largest and the most myste- 
rious member of the solar system. 

SM 1904 13 



CONDENSATION NUCLEI." 



liy C. T. U. Wii,s()\'. F. 11. S., 
Fellow of Sidiici/ Siissc.r CoUv<i<\ Ciniihridf/c, IJiu/land. 



If we tako the ordinary air of a room and inclose it in a glass vessel 
containin<>- some water and provided with some means of increasing 
or diminishing the volnme at Avill, we are able to observe the follow- 
ing phenomena : If the air has been alloAved to stand sufficiently long 
to become saturated with water vapor, any increase of volume, even 
if very slight, causes the formation of a fog throughout the volume 
of the moist air. This is easily made visible by concentrating a 
powerful beam of light on the contents of the vessel; or, by placing 
a small source of light behind the vessel, brilliant-colored rings or 
coronas may be seen surrounding the source. If the air be made to 
contract again to its original volume, a second expansion like the first 
will again give a similar fog, but when this process has been several 
times repeated the fogs become thinner, the drops being fewer and 
larger; we get at length a fine rain on expansion rather than a fog, 
the drops falling to the bottom of the vessel within a fev/ seconds 
instead of remaining in suspension for many minutes like the first- 
formed fog particles. When this stage has been reached, the next 
and all succeeding expansions produce no drops at all, no condensation 
resulting elsewhere than on the w'alls of the vessel. If ordinary air 
be now admitted into the vessel, drops will again l)e seen on expan- 
sion, uidess the air introduced has entered through a tightly pressed 
plug of cotton wool, or has been otherwise filtered, in which case no 
drops are seen. 

The phenomena are readily explained if we suppose that water can 
not under ordinary circumstances condense in the form of drops 
unless suitable nuclei are present to serve as starting points for the 
drops. These nticlei are present in very varying numbers in ordinary 
atmospheric air, from which they may be removed by filtering, or 

9 A paper presented at the International Electrical Congress of St. Louis, 1904. 
Reprinted from author's revised copj'. 

195 



196 CONDENSATION NUCLEI. 

1)V i-cpcatcdl}^ forming ji cloud b}' exi)aiisioii, and alloAvin<»; the drops 
to fall to tlie bottom of the vessel. Both the facts and the explana- 
tion lia\(' been lon^- known. The particles which serve as the nuclei 
of the drops formed, when ordinary atmospheric air is allowed to 
expand slightly, are conveniently called ''dust" particles; they are 
generally too small to be themselves visible, and it would be difficult 
to find a means of determining whether they consist of solid particles 
or of minute drops of liquid. The number of these dust particles 
per cubic centimeter of air in different localities and under different 
weather conditions has been investigated by Aitken and by others 
with the aid of the ingenious dust-counting apparatus invented by 
him. 

It is not difficult to understand Avhy nuclei should be necessary for 
the condensation of water in the form of drops. Lord Kelvin proved 
that the pressure of aqueous vapor necessary for equilibriinn over a 
convex or concave surface of water differed from that over a Hat 
surface, being less over a. concave and greater over a convex surface. 
He shows how we may calculate the difference. A very snuiU drop of 
pure water will, if we assume the surface tension to remain the same 
for very small drops as for large ones, evaporate even Avhen sur- 
rounded l)y vapor numy times more dense than that in equilibrium 
at the same temperature over a flat surface. Thus unless the initial 
stages of the growth of the drops can be, as it were, omitted, owing 
to the presence of not too minute nuclei, a high degree of supersatu- 
ration may exist without any condensation in the form of rain or 
cloud resulting. Lord Kelvin showed that to alter the equilibrium 
vapor pressure by one part in a thousand the radius of curvature of a 
s])herical drop must amount to about 10 — * cm. Thus very minute 
nuclei will enable a cloutl to be formed with a very slight degree of 
siipersaturation; in other words, as a result of a very slight expansion 
of the air if this has been initially saturated Avith water vapor. 

Tjord Kelvin refrained from extending his calculations to curva- 
tui-es of greater amount, as the surface tension can not remain inde- 
pendent of the radius much beyond that limit. It is convenient, 
however, to extend the calculations to greater curvatures; for 
ahliough (he results obtained can not be considered as quantitatively 
correct, they enable us to form a picture of the mode of action of 
nuclei of different kinds. Let us imagine an arrangement equivalent 
to tliat considered by Lord Kelvin; but since we are only here con- 
cerned with convex surfaces, let the capillary tube be joined as a side 
tube to the lower part of a tall vessel of water. The capillary must 
be supposed to have walls of such a nature as not to be wetted by 
water, and let us suppose the open end of it to be bent round, so that 
it points vertically upward, and that the height of the vertical por- 
tion can be adjusted to bring the meniscus to the open end of the tube. 



9 J 



CONDENSATION NUCLEI. 197 

Let the whole apparatus be contained in a closed vessel containin<>- 
only watei- vapor. 

We lia\"e then the convex water-air meniscus depressed heidw tlic 
level of the llat surface in the lar<»'e vessel to a depth //. such tlial 
(/ir/i =- -iT'/-. where t/ is the acceleration due to <i-ravity. f the density 
of the H(iui(l ( IV = 1 in the present case), T is the surface tension, and 
/• the radius of curvature. Thus the pi'cssure of the vai)()r in contact 
Avith till' meniscus nnist he oreater than that over the flat surface by 
that (hie to the weiii'ht of a colunni of water vapor of Iieii>ht A. the 
])ressui'e at the toj) of the cohunn beiuii' that re(|uired for e(juilibi-ium 
over a Mat surface at the given temperature. This iiu-reased pressure 
must, moreover, be the pressure necessary for equilibrium o\-er the 
curvetl surface; distillation from the one surface to the other would 
otherwise take place, resultin<i' in a continuous cii'culation. To find 
this pressure y>., p^ being that at the flat surface we have (/jj=(/fj<//i, 

dp 

P 

p being- the density of the steam. If we assume Boyle's law to be 
obeyed, this gives 

9 Pi 9 fti 
R being the constant in the e(juation pr^=Rf, t l)eing the absolute tem- 
perature, Pi, p.i the density of the vapor at the two surfaces respec- 
tively. 

But h = ST/rr/, thus 

log,B=log.^-l 2T 

AVe have thus the means of calculating the pressure, or the density, 
which water vapor nnist have in order that it nuiy be in e(iuilibriuui 
in contact with a drop of any size. The e(]uilibrimn is obviously 
unstable; a drop, if too big for equilibrium, will grow so long as the 
suj)ersaturated condition is maintained; if too small it will evaporate 
completely. The possession of a charge of electricity by the drop or 
tlu' existence of a dissolved substance within it will cause the drop to 
be stal)le if its size be less than a certain limit, (lej)ending on the nuig- 
nitude of the charge or tlie ([uantity of dissolved substance. Let us 
consider the case of electi'itication. We may inuigine the water s\u*- 
face in one limb of a U tube in an ai'rangement like that described 
above, to l)e uniforndy charged with electricity by holding a vei-y 
short distance above it a parallel conducting surface maintained at a 
different potential. It is immaterial whether the water surface be 
flat or curved ; a tension of 2 tcg"^ dynes per square centimeter will be 
exerted on the end of the colunni, ff being the charge per s(juare centi- 
meter. This will raise the electrified surface above the level which it 



198 CONDENSATION NUCLEI. 

Avoiild have ocoiipied in (he absence of the charge through a distance 
2 TTff - r/, and there will be a corresponding diminution in the satura- 
tion A'apor pressure. The vapor pressure necessary for equilibrium 
over a charged drop is now given by the e(|uation 

where p.^ is the saturation vapor pressure over a flat, uncharged sur- 
face, p.^ that necessary for equilibrium at the same temperature in 
presence of the drops, and e is the charge on each drop. In an at- 
mosphere saturated with resjDect to a flat uncharged surface a drop 
carrying a charge e would be in stable equilibrium if its radius were 
such that the two terms on the right-hand side of the above equation 
w^ere equal, i. e., when )'^=e-/H')7r T. If the density of the vapor were 
increased the drop would become larger, the equilibrium remaining 
stable until the vapor pressure reached the maximum value corre- 
sponding to the above equation. To find this we have on differen- 
tiating 

p dr Rt \ r' 2 nr^ ) 

The maximum vapor pressure in contact with the drops occurs 
when y'^ = ^r/4 n T, and has the value given by 

Pi 2 Rtr 

If the j5ressure of the vapor be increased beyond this limit the 
unstable condition is reached, and the drop increases in size so long as 
the supply of vapor is unlimited. In most cases the final size of the 
drops would be determined by the amount of vapor initially present, 
and the number of drops among which the water is distributed; 
unless they are very numerous, and, therefore, very small when full 
grown, they will grow until the vapor is not sensibly supersaturated ; 
it will only be in very rare cases that the final size of the drops is so 
small that equilibrium will be reached while the vapor is at all con- 
siderably supersat ui'ated. 

It is easily seen that the l)ehavior of drops containing dissolved sub- 
stances will be quite similar. If we start with very small drops, there 
is for a given size of drops a certain vapor pressure corresponding to 
equilibrium ; if we increase the density of the vapor the drop grows, 
the equilibrium remaining stable, until a certain size is reached, after 
which the drops suddenly grow to their full size. The theory of con- 
densation on ions or other nuclei has been treated by J. J. Thomson " 
and by Langevin and Bloch.'' 

" J. J. Thomson, Conduction of Eloctrioity throujih Gases, p. 149. 
6 Bloch, Recherehes sur la conductibilite electriyue de I'air produite par le 
phosphore et sur les gaz recemment prepares (Paris, 1904). 



CON DENS ATION NUCLEI. 199 

I.I.MiriNC Sri'KRSATUKATlON IN DUS T-KKKK (iASRS. 

When air saturated with water vapoi- has been freed from dust 
particles no drops are formed on expansion, provided that a certain 
critical degree of supersaturation has not been exceeded. To pro- 
duce the supersaturation necessary for condensation in the form of 
drops in dust-free air the air must be allowed to expand suddenly, 
till the final volume is 1.25 times the initial volume. The condensa- 
tion is rainlike in form, and the number of drops remains small 
although the expansion considerably exceeds this lower limit. Ex- 
pansions exceeding a second limit, rJt\=l.'^H give fogs, which increase 
rapidly in density, i. e., in the inunber of the drops as the expansion 
is increased beyond this limit. In such experiments it is of course 
necessary that the apparatus used should be such that^i very rapid 
change of volume can be brought about, and that the ratio of the final 
to the initial volume is known with certainty. Some years ago I 
introduced a method which has proved suitable for the purpose. 
When this method is used it would appear from the consistency of the 
results obtained with cloud chambers varying in capacity from 15 to 
1,500 cc. that the expansion is adiabatic and is completed before any 
appreciable quantity of water has had time to separate out. From 
the ratio of the final to the initial volume, knowing the initial temper- 
ature, we can deduce the temperature at the moment when the expan- 
sion was completed from the equation for the cooling of a gas by 
adiabatic expansion. 



5i \vj 



r-1 



y may be taken as not differing sensibl}^ from its value for the dry 
gas. Knowing the final temperature we have the data from which we 
can obtain the density of the vapor which would be required for sat- 
uration at the moment of completion of the expansion, and we know 
the actual density at that moment from the initial temperature and 
the ratio of the final to the initial volume. Thus the supersaturation 
measured by the ratio of the actual density of the vapor at the instant 
when the expansion is completed to the density of the saturated vapor 
at the temperature which the supersaturated gas then possesses can 
be calculated. 

The supersaturation required for the rainlike condensation is found 
in this way to be approximately fourfold, that required for the cloud- 
like condensation being nearly eightfold. There are these two classes 
of nuclei always present in moist dust- free air, and always being pro- 
duced, for however often the process of condensing water on the 
nuclei and allowing the drops to settle is repeated the numl)er of 
drops formed in subsequent expansions is undiminished. The nuclei 



200 CONDENSATION NUCLEI. 

which give rise to the rainlike eondensation and which are at any 
moment present in quite small numbers are, as we shall see, ions con- 
tinually beino {produced in the gas. They can be removed by an elec- 
tric field. The cloudlike ccmdensation occurring with large expan- 
sions is entirely unaffected by an electric field; it is independent also 
of the nature of the gas. If we calculate how large a drop of Avater 
would require to be in order that it should just be able to grow in 
vapor of eightfold supersaturation, we obtain the very small valne 
t).4 by 10 — ^ cm. for the radius of such drops. Thus drops not large in 
comparison with molecular dimensions might be expected to grow 
into visible drops in an atmosphere supersaturated to this extent. 

TIIK IONS AS CONDENSATION NITCLKI. 

. If we expose the cloud chauii)er of an expansion aj)j)aratus to the 
action of Roentgen rays, the air having been previously fi-ced from 
dust, just th(^ same expansion is required as in the absence of the 
rays to produce drops, but now we get comparatixely dens* fogs 
in place of the rainlike condensation. The cloudlike condensation 
obtained with ex])ansions exceeding (he second limit is not sensibly 
affected. Thus, when X rays ])ass through moist air they produce 
nuclei of exactly the same efficiency in |)i-om<)tiiig condensation as 
those wdiich are always l)eing produced in small numi)ers and to 
which the rainlike condensation is (Uh\ The conducting power 
imparted to air by the action of X rays being explaine(l as due to 
the setting free of ions in the gas, it was natui'al (o identify the 
nuclei with the ions. 

This view was verified by studying the action of an electric field 
on the nuclei produced by X rays, l^etween two jjarallel plates, 
which formed the top and bottom of the cloud chambei- of an 
expansion appaiatus, a difference of potential of sonu^ hundred volts 
could be ai)plie(l. With the electric field acting, the number of drops 
produced on expansion in air exposed to the rays was exceedingly 
small in comparison with the nuuibei- seen in the absence of the field. 
The nuclei carry a charge of electricity, and are driven by the electric 
field against the ])lates innnediately after being set free. The direct 
[u-oof that the few nuclei, which are always present and give rise 
to the rainlike condensation, are also ions has been more difficult to 
carry out. Attempts made with small apparatus led to negative 
results, the nunibei- of drops being inconveniently small whether the 
field was apj^iied or not. Recent experiments on a large scale, how- 
ever, showed in a striking way the removal of these nuclei by the 
electric field. The subject has been further cleared up by the inde- 
pendent proof l)y purely electrical measurements that the air in a 
closed vessel is continually being ionized. 



CONDENSATION NUCLEI. 201 

Air ionized by any of the various types of Beoqnerel rays or con- 
tainiii<»" ions from :i zinc plate exposed to weak ultra-violet li<!:1it 
lu'liaves on cxiJansion like aii- exposed to X i-ays, I'o^s l)ein<>' piotluceil 
ill air initially saturated if the lower ex[)aiisi()ii limit rj i\=--\.)ii) Ik; 
exceeded. The action of an electric (ield in removing- the nuclei is 
the same in air ionized by Recquerel rays as in air ionized by X rays. 
The ions produce<l by the dischar<»:e from a point are similar in their 
action, but there is here a tendency, due probably to the products of 
chemical combinations bi-ou^-ht about by the luminous discharge, for 
the nuclei to izrow or for larger uncharged nuclei to be formed, so 
that a much sum Her degree of supersaturation may be required to 
produce a chuid. The ions produced by these various methods are 
also identical in the velocity with which they move through air 
under a given [xiteiitial gradient. The degree of supersaturation 
reijuired to make water condense on the ions is independent of 
the gas. 

If we nudve use of the equation which has been given above, con- 
necting the maximum supersaturation with the charge of the drop, 
we obtain the result ^^=0X10 — '" electrostatic units for a fourfold 
supei-saturation. To obtain this number, we have, of course, ex- 
tended to drops of almost molecular smallness, r=7'XlO — '' cm., an 
equation which could only be used with confidence wdien the radius 
Avas at least a thousand times as great. It is therefore somewhat 
renuu-kable that the value obtained approximates fairly closely to 
the values found by J. J. Thomson and by H. A. Wilson for the 
ionic charge. The action of the ions as condensation nuclei is not, 
iiowever, completely explained, for our fornnda would make effi- 
ciency of the electrification in helping condensation independent of 
the sign of the charge. Now, the negative ions are found to require 
a less degree of supersaturation to make water form visible dro})s 
ui)on them than do the positive. 

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE IONS. 

To study this question we may use an expansion apparatus i)ro- 
vided with a cloud chaml)er, in which the air under examination 
is contained between tAvo hcrizontal plates kept at slightly difterent 
potentials. A thin stratum of the air immediately over the lower 
plate is exposed to the action of X rays. A series of obsei-vations 
are then made, in which the rays are cut off at a definite intei-val of 
time before the expansion is made, the interval being such that all 
the downward-moving ions have had time to reach the lower plate 
while only a small proportion of the upward-moving ones have 
reached the much more distant upper plate l)efore the expansion 
takes place. Thus at the moment of expansion we will have prac- 



202 CONDENSATION NUCLEI. 

tically ions of only one kind present, those, namely, which ai'e mov- 
ing toward the upper plate. 

In this wa}' it has been found that in order that water ma}' con- 
dense upon them to form visible drops the negative ions require an 
expansion ''Ji^ = 1.25, the positive an expansion 1.81, the corre- 
sponding supersaturations being fourfold and sixfold, respectively. 

When ions of both kinds are present in approximately equal num- 
bers, it is often possible to observe a difference in the density of the 
resulting cloud according as the expansion is below or above the limit 
corresponding to the degree of snpersaturation necessary for the con- 
densation of the positive ions. The increase in density Avas first 
described by J. ,]. Thomson, and it was suggested by him that it 
might be due to a difference between the positive and negative ions 
in their efficiency as condensation nuclei; he pointed out that such a 
difference, if established, would have important bearings on the sub- 
ject of atmospheric electricity. For an electrical field might be 
expected to result in ionized air if such a degree of supersaturation 
was reached that condensation took place on ions of one kind only, 
these loaded ions being then carried down by gravity. That the 
drops produced under these conditions are actually negatively 
charged, as was to be expected from the greater efficiency of the 
negative ion as a nucleus, was proved by H. A. Wilson, by observing 
the movement of the drops in a strong electric field applied after their 
formation by expansion. 

CHAR(JE CARRIED BY THE IONS. 

The most important use which has been made of the fact that ions 
act as nuclei for the condensation of water vapor has been in the 
determination of the quantity of electricity carried by each ion. Two 
entirely different methods have been employed, botli requiring the 
use of the expansion apparatus. In the first, that of J. J. Thomson, 
a measurement of the leakage of electricity through the air of the 
(•h)ud chamber allows n, e, the product of the number of ions and the 
ionic cliarge, to be measured ; >/, the number of the ions is given by the 
number of the drops. The number has been obtained, not by direct 
counting, but from a knowledge of the quantity of water condensed, 
and the size of the drops as obtained from their rate of fall. The 
second method (used by II. A. Wilson) in its simplest form reduces 
itself to a determination of the strength of the electric- field necessary 
to maintain in suspension the drops condensed upon the ions. We 
tlien have F e, the product of the strength of the field and the charge 
on the drop, equal to its weight. The size of the drops, and hence 
their weight, is again deduced from the rate of fall in the absence of 
the field. 



CONDENSATION NUCLEI. 203 

OTHKH rHorKlM'ir.S <»1- I'lIK IONS. 

There is no room for donht (lint the nuclei produced b}' X rays 
and similar agents, and reciuiiMug a fourfold or sixfold supersatura- 
(ioii to make water condense on them, are negatively or j)()sitively 
charged ions. We know by other methods of studying them a great 
deal about the pi'operties of ions, their velocity in an electric field, 
their difi'usion constants and ralt's of recombination under dilfei'enl 
conditions. Their behavior when studied by condensation has been 
entirely in agreement with the i-esults obtain<'d by other methods; 
for example, the rapidity with which their number diminishes after 
the source of ionization has been cut ofl'. 

NUCLKl Si:\IlLAH IN EFFIC'IENrY TO THE IONS, BT T NOT REIMOVABLE BY AN 

ELECTRICAL FIELD. 

Moist air exposed to weak ultraviolet light is found to contain 
a plentiful supply of nuclei, which require a degree of supersatura- 
tion approximately the same as do the ions, in order that a cloud may 
form upon them. Yet even very strong electric fields appear to be 
without effect in reducing the number of drops formed on expansion. 
Certain metals also produce in the air in contact with them similar 
nuclei, the clouds in this case, however, not generally attaining any 
considerable density, unless the expansion is great enough to cause 
condensation on })ositive ions. It is possible that we have in both 
these cases ions produced as a result of the expansion, there being, 
therefore, no time for the ions to be removed by the field before the 
cloud is formed. 

NUCLEI MORE EFFECTIVE IN PROMOTING CONDENSATION THAN THE IONS 

PRODUCED BY X RAYS. 

If we expose moist air to ultraviolet of moderate intensity, the 
result is not so simple as when the intensity is very small. Nuclei 
are produced which appear to grow under the action of the light, 
the expansion required to produce a cloud becoming less than that 
required by the negative ions, and becoining less and less the stronger 
the light and the longer the ex])osure. For a given intensity of the 
light, there appears to be a maximum size beyond which the nuclei 
cease to grow. A ver}-^ moderate intensity is sufficient to produce 
nuclei which grow till the slightest expansion will form a cloud, and 
the growth is very rapid, so that the earlier stages are difficult to fol- 
low. With very intense ultraviolet light, the growth continues till 
the nuclei become visible in suital)le illumination, and we get a cloud 
without expansion, even in unsaturated air. There can be little doubt 
that the growth of these nuclei into visible drops is to be attributed 
to the formation of some substance in solution within them. Vincent 



204 CONDENSATION NUCLEI. 

has recentl}^ studied these visible nuclei and found some of the 
particles to be j)()sitively, some negatively charged, and others neu- 
tral; but he finds the evidence to be in favor of the view that the 
charges are, as it Avere, accidental, being simply due to ions which have 
come in contact with them. Lenard had previously shown the ioniza- 
tion of the air by these rays. 

The very small nuclei — i. e., those which require large expansions 
to make drops form upon them — dilfuse rapidly to the sides of the 
vessel, so that a fog is not formed if the radiation ])e cut ofi' even one 
minute before the expansion is made. The nuclei which are large 
enough to be visil)le may persist for hours on account of their very 
slow diffusion. 

Other nuclei Avhicli, like those produced b}' ultraviolet, light, vary 
in size with varying conditions are those produced by heating a wire, 
studied some time ago by Aitken and recently by Ow^en. The latter 
has shown that the loAver the temperature at which they have been 
given otf by the wire the greater is the expansion required to catch 
them. They can be detected when the wire has been raised to a tem- 
perature of less than iM)° C. in air. The nuclei ])roduced b}' the slow 
oxidation of phosphorus, like those formed by the action of strong 
ultraviolet light, form visible clouds in air which is not supersatu- 
rat^ed. These clouds have been studied by r)arus and others. As in 
the cases just considered, the production of the nuclei is associated 
with the acquisition of conducting power by the gas. There has been 
a considerable amount of controversy as to the nature of the conduc- 
tion of electricity in air which has passed over phosphorus. The 
experiments of Bloch " have, however, proved, from the nature of the 
curve obtained for the relation between current and potential differ- 
ence, that we have here a true case of ionization. Ilis measurements 
of the velocity of the ions showed that they have a very small mobil- 
ity as compared with the ions due to X rajrs. His experiments leave 
little room for doubt that these slow-moving ions are identical Avith 
tlu^ nuclei. The mobility is about a thousand times as small as that 
of the ions formed by X rays. 

Certain exj)eriments of Ihirms.'' and of Elster and Geitel,'' appear 
to show that by the oxidation of phosphorus free ions are produced 
in addition to the visible cloud particles. These we should expect to 
[)(' ra|ndly removed by diffusion and recombination, and, after pass- 
ing through any considerable length of tubing, we should expect only 
the loaded ions to persist. The absence of unloaded ions in Bloch's 
experiments is perhaps to be explained in this way. 

o Bloch, loc. cit. 

i> nanus, IMiys. Zoit., 1st May, 1903. 

c Elster and Geitel, Phys. Zeit, loth May, 1903. 



TON DENS ATION NU('LKI. 205 

Tlu' nuclei round in frcslily i)r('i)ariHl g-ascs, iiiid studied especially 
l»v Tow UMMid. reseuihle in many ways those resultinjjj from tlie oxida- 
tion of phosphorus. Like theui. they forui clouds without supcrsatu- 
ration. and they carry a char<^e of electricity. Ill some cases, at least, 
as was shown by Townseiid's experiments, the charije on each nucleus 
IS the ionic charii-e. liloch has studied the mobility of these ions, 
and in aiireement with Townsend has found it to be of the same order 
as that of the ph<)S])liorus ions. 

P)y the splashin<2: of water or aciueous solutions, or the bubbling of 
air through water or solutions, nuclei are [)roduced requiring only a 
slight expansion in order that water may condense upon them. These 
nuclei have lately been studied by P)arus. lie Hnds that the nuclei 
produced from salt solutions are much more i)ersistent than those 
:. rising from distilled water. It is most natural to regard these 
iniclei, as does Barus," as small drops which have evaporated till the 
strength of the solution is such that the eliect of the dissolved sub- 
stance on the vapor pressure counterbalances that of the surface ten- 
sion. The splashing or bubbling process also imparts temporary 
conducting power to the gas. According to Kaehler, with pure dis- 
tilled water the conduction is practically unipolar and due to the pres- 
ence of negative ions having a mobility equal to that of the ions i)ro- 
diiced by X rays. With salt water positive ions of very small 
mobility are produced in addition. 

In the products of combustion from flames we find again ions of 
small mobility, and no appreciable degree of supersaturation is re- 
quired to produce a cloud. 

As Bloch points out, there are a])))arently two classes of ions. We 
have. Hrst, ions like those produced i)y X rays and similar agents, 
whicli have a definite velocity in an electric field of given strength 
;iiid recjuire a definite degree of supersaturation — fourfold or sixfold, 
according to the sign of the charge — in order that water may con- 
dense upon them. 

The second class consists of ions of variable mobility.^ about one- 
thousandth part of that of the ions of the hrst class, and they have the 
power of condensing water to form visible drops without su})ersat- 
uration. Ions with intermediate })r()perties are rarely, if ever, met 
witii. Bloch points out that we should expect an important differ- 
ence between the two classes with respect to the result of recombination 
of positive and negative ions. In the first class the nucleus owes its 
existence to the charge: if two oj^iiositely charged ions (which we 
ma}^ regard as minute chargiMl drops) combine, we should expect tlie 
resultant uncharged- nucleus to evaporate at once. On the other 
hand, the persistence of the ions of the second class can not be due to 
the charm" alone, and neutralization of the charge will not result in 



o Bar us, The Structure of tlie Nucleus. 



206 CONDENSATION NUCLEI. 

evajioration of the nucleus. From recombination of these ions per- 
sistent uncharged nuclei will result. The facts are found to be in com- 
plete accord with these considerations. 

If we produce a cloud in dust-free air by an expansion exceeding 
1.25 after exposure to X ra^i^s, or exceeding 1.38 in the absence of 
ionizing agents, the drops formed, if made to evaporate by com- 
|)ression, aj^pear to leave behind nuclei requiring only slight ex- 
])ansion to make water condense on them. J. J. Thomson has pointed 
out that there may be a certain size for which even uncharged drops 
of })ure water may be stable in an unsaturated atmosphere. For, 
according to the experiments of Keinold and Kiicker, the surface 
tension of thin films has a minimum for a certain thickness. There 
may. therefore, be a certain size (somewhat smaller than that corre- 
sponding to minimum surface tension) foi- which the potential energ}' 
of a drop due to surface tension has a minimum value. Such a drop 
would be in equilibrium in vapor saturated with respect to a flat 
surface. 

Bloch. following Langevin, works out, in the paper already re- 
ferred to, the theory of condensation of water vapor on ions. He 
shows that we might expect drops of about 10 yuyu in diameter to be 
stal)le, on account of the variation in surface tension in that region, 
but we should not expect to meet Avith drops of Avhich the diameter 
was com])rised between that limit and a very low value, the equilib- 
riuui of such particles being unstable. The behavior of other sub- 
stances than Avater would probably be similar. In this way Bloch 
explains the fact that we do not meet w^ith ions of mobility inter- 
mediate betAveen about 1 centimeter and one three-hundredths centi- 
meter per second for a field of 1 volt per centimeter. 

There are then three principal classes of nuclei: (1) The ions 
proper, requiring a foui'fold or sixfold supersaturation to cause water 
to condense on them, and having a mobility exceeding 1 centimeter 
per second in a field of 1 volt per centimeter; (2) loaded ions requir- 
ing little or no sui)ersaturation to make water condense on them, and 
liaving a mobility generally less than a thousandth part of that of the 
ions proper; (3) uncharged nuclei, resembling the second class in 
requiring little or no supersaturation in order that visible drops may 
form upon them. 

[The accompanying illustrations — most of them from an article on 
" Nucleation during cold weather," by Dr. Carl Barns, Avhich ap- 
peared in the Physical Review for April, 1903 — are here appended to 
shoAv in a grapliic manner the number of nuclei in atmospheric 
air. Doctor Barus, \A'ho prepared these charts, has for several years 
been conducting investigati(ms on this subject, under the auspices of 
the Smithsonian Institution, which has published several of his 
memoirs. — Editor.] 




5 00 
I- CM 

< O 
li. H 



w X ^ 

? ¥ " 



a i" C 



~ c so 



en = J X 



1- o 


i-^ M 


zO 


a § 5 c 

3— c 


O ^ 




, o 


^ a; s 



o a: ^/ii > 




<U O) 






53 a< 






" 3 



fs 5^ iss 



Xf' 


c-i 


,___! 


^J 


__ ___ 








<j> 




S 








Ill — 


, ® 


« 


•-- 


W 




* 






o 1 












r 
/ 


















i 






sr- 






— = 


==: '^ 


1 


&■ 






^ 








"^-L 






? 










r 





=^ 












• 


Tij'- 


















•v-^," 






od 




? 


^ 








^v^^ 




^' 


-+ 

W5 

oi 
^ 

s- 
^ 


or 
u 
m 






% 








\ 

1^1 


1 




2 
u 

u 
Q 




cm! 


4 


- 




— ' 





¥- 



1- 






J-^'i 


'^ 


CM 




^ 


-©> 




^ 


/IL 


°~^ 


~«~\ 


fo — 


UJ 








0'^. 


^ 


5 

UJ 

> 






o 










• 


^ 

/ 




■?- 




Z 

z" 




1 




1 1 


__J_^ 




m- 


1- 
< 




Sj- 


^ 




^_^ 




cT 


^ 


UJ 

_] 







^ 










•■^ 


©lira. 


-- 


1. 

H 






o 










-•»■ 


1^ 




< 

I 

















1 1 ' 




Sj 


















1 1 1 








y? 


f^ 

y 










>< 




T 




Si 

1 






-* 


Mi" 










r 




^^ 






1 


\ 




^ 






• 


I_ 


— 





S^ <::> 



i^ cv 




CO a 




J 5 



« 5 



O c3.- 



o 



a 




O E. 



< - s, 




r- ^ 






llJ I 

O '^ 
o 

O o> 

CO 1- 

5i 

IT < 
^? 

_ <M 

Ld O 
-I 05 
O T- 

^ cr 

i^ < 

O "J 

tr ' 

HI UJ 
Cfl I 

5 H 

Z O 
uJ 
O 
< 

HI 

> 
< 



St 



6^ 



So? 
S ij ^ 

■5." o 

Id;." 



|a3 



= h3 

? .a 



TKESENT PROBLEI^rS OF INORGANIC CHEMISTRY." 



Bv Sir William Ramsay. K. C. B.. F. U. S. 



To discuss tlio '' present problems of iiioi-<;!\iiic cheinistry "" is by no 
jiioans' an easy task. The expression might be taken to mean an 
account of what is being actually done at present by ihose engaged 
in inorganic research; or it might be taken to relate to what needs 
doing — to the direction in which research is required. To summarize 
what is being done in an intelligible manner in the time at my dis- 
posal would be an almost impossible task ; hence I will choose the lat- 
ter interpretation of the title of my address. Now, a considerable 
experience in attempting to unveil the secrets of nature has convinced 
me that a deliberate eflort to discover some new law or fact seldom 
succeeds. The investigator generally begins unmethodically, by ran- 
dom and chance experiments; or i)erhaps he is guided by some iniUca- 
tion which has struck his attention (hiring scmie previous research; 
and he is often the plaything of circumstances in his choice. Expe- 
rience leads him to choose problems which most readily achiiit of solu- 
tion, or which appear likely to lead to the most interesting residts. 
If 1 uiay be excused the egotism of referring to my own work, I may 
illustrate what I mean by relating the following curious coincideuce: 
After Lord Kayleigh had announced his discovery that "■ atmosphei-i(; 
nitrogen " was denser than '' chemical nitrogen," I referred to Caven- 
tlish's celel)rated pa])er on the combination of the nitrogen and the 
oxvgen of the air by means of electric sparks. Fortified by what I 
read, and by the knowledge gained during the pi'rfornuuice of lecture 
experiments that red-hot magnesium is a good and fairly rapid 
absorbent of nitrogen, it was not long before a considerable cpiantity 
of nearly pure argon had been separated from atmospheric nitrogen. 
Now it happened that I possess two copiers of Cavendish's works; and 
some months afterwards I consulted the other coi)y and found ])en- 
ciled on the margin the words '' look into this." I remembered the 
circumstance which led to the annotation. About ten years before, 



An address at the International Congress of Arts and Science. St. Louis, 
SeiJtember, 1904. Here printed by permission of the author. 

207 



208 PRESENT PROBLEMS OF INORf4ANTC CHEMISTRY. 

one of iny students had investigulcd tlie direct combination of nitro- 
gen and hydrogen, and I had read Cavendish's memoir on that occa- 
sion, I mention this fact to show that for some reason Avhich I for- 
get, a line of work was not followed up, which would have been 
attended b}^ most interesting results; one does not always folloAv the 
clue which yields results of the greatest interest. I regard it, therefoiv, 
as an impossible task to indicate the lines on which research should be 
carried out. All that I can do is to call attention to certain problems 
awaiting solution; but their relative importance must necessarily be a 
matter of personal bias, and others might with perhaps greater right 
suggest wholly different problems. 

The fundamental task of inorganic chemistry is still connected 
with the classification of elements and compounds. The investiga- 
tion of the classification of carbon compounds forms the field of 
organic chemistry, while general or physical chemistry deals with 
the laws of reaction and the influence of various forms of energy in 
furthering or hindering chemical change. And classification centers 
at i^resent in the periodic arrangement of the elements, according to 
the order of their atomic weights. Whatever changes in our views 
ma}^ be concealed in the lap of the future, this great generalization, 
due to Newlands, Lothar Meyer, and Mendelejev, will always retain 
a place, pei'haps the prominent place, in chemical science. 

Now, it is certain that no attemjit to reduce the irregular regularity 
of the atomic weights to a mathematical expression has succeeded ; 
and it is, in my opinion, very unlikely that any such expression, of 
not insu[)erable complexity, and having a basis of })hysical meaning, 
will ever be found. I have already, in an address to the German 
Association at Cassel, given an outline of the grand problem which 
awaits solution. It can be shortly stated then: While the factors 
of kinetic and of gravitational energy', velocity, and momentum on 
the one hand and force and distance on the other are simply related 
to eacli other, the capacdty factors of other foi'ms of energy — surface, 
in tlie case of surface energy; volume, in the case of volume energy; 
entropy for heat; electi'ic caj)acity, when electric charges are being 
conv^eyed by means of ions; atomic weight, when chemical energy is 
being gained or lost — all these are simjily connected with the funda- 
mental chemical capacity, atomic weight, or nuiss. The periodic 
arrangement is an attempt to bring the two sets of capacity factors 
into a simple relation to each other; and while the attempt is in so 
far a success, inasmuch as it is evident that some law is indicated, the 
divergences are such as to show that finality has not been attained. 
The central problem in inorganic chemistry is to answer the question, 
Why this incomplete concordance? Having stated the general ques- 
tion, it may conduce to clearness if some details are given. 

1. The variation of molecular surface energ;\^ with temperature is 



PRESENT I'KOHLKMS OF INOKOANK; CHEMIHTRY. 209 

such that the surfaoe eiun-ofy for equal numbers of molecules distrib- 
uted over a surface is equal for etjual intervals of temperature below 
the temperature at which surface enerjjy is zero — that is, the critical 
point. This ijives a means of determining; the molecular weights of 
liquids, and we assume that the moleculai" weij>:ht of a compound is 
accurately (he sum of the atomic weights of the constituent elements. 
•2. I'he volume energy of gases is equal at equal temperature from 
that at which volume energy is zero — i. e., absolute zero. And it fol- 
lows that those volumes of gases which possess equal volume energy 
contain equal numbers of molecules — again, a close connection with 
atomic weights. 

3. The specific heats of elements are approximately inversely pro- 
poi-tional to their atomic weights, and of compounds to the quotient 
of theii- molecular weights divided by the number of atoms in the 
molecule. Specific heat and entropy are closely related; hence one 
of the factors of thermal energy is proportional (nearly) to the 
reciprocal of the atomic weights. 

4. The ion carries in its migration through a solution one or more 
electrons. Now, the ion is an atom carrying one or more charges — 
one for each equivalent. Here Ave have the capacity for electric 
charge proportional to the equivalent. 

5. The factors of chemical energy are atomic weight and chemical 
potential ; and as the former is identical numerically, or after multi- 
plication l)y a simple factor with equivalent, electric potential is 
proportional to chemical potential. 

We see, therefore, that surface, volume, thermal, electrical, and, 
no doubt, other forms of energy have as capacity factors magnitudes 
either identical with or closely related to units of chemical capacity 
while kinetic and linear energy are not so related, except through 
the periodic arrangement of the elements. 

It appears, therefore, to be a fundamental problem for the chemist 
to ascertain, first, accurate atomic weights, and, second, to investi- 
gate some anomalies which still present difficulties. In America you 
iiave excellent workers in the former branch. Mallet, Morley, 
Ivichards, and many others have devoted their time and skill to per- 
iiaps the best work of this kind which has been done, and F. W. 
(.'larke has collated all results and afforded incalculable help to all 
who work at or are interested in the subject. Valuable criticisms, 
too, have been made by Tlinrichs; but it must be confessed that, in 
spite of these, which are [)erliaps the best determinations which have 
been made, the problem becomes more and not less formidable. 

There are lines of work, however, which suggest themselves as pos- 
sibh' likely to throw light on the (|uesti()n. P'irst, there is a striking 
anomaly in the atomic weight of nitrogen, determined by analysis 
SM 1904 14 



210 PRESENT PROBLEMS <>K IN(>R(}ANIO CHEMISTRY. 

iiiid (IclcnniiH'd hy dciisily. Stsis oUliiiiicd the miinlxT 1 1. 01 (0=10), 
:iii(l lvicli;ii-(ls has rccciilly (•oiilinncd Ids rcsidls, whdc liaylci^^h and 
licdiic coiisislciit ly ohiaiiicd densities which, e\('ii when corrected so 
as to e(|iiali/e the iinniheis of moh'cides in e(|nal volumes, <2ive the 
l()\v(^i' iioiii-e 14.()()l!. The diU'ei'encc^ is 1 in 1550 — far beyond any pos- 
sible experimental error. IJecentiy an attempt to combine the two 
'.nethods lias led to a mean number, but that result can liai-diy be 
tal<en as (inal. AVhat is the I'eason of the disciv|)an('V? Its disco\'ery 
will surely advance knowle(l<i;e matei'ialiy. I would su^^'est the 
preparation of pure compounds of niti'o<:('ii. such as salts of hydi-a- 
zine, methylanine, etc., and their caicd'ul analysis, and also the 
accuratx! detei-mination of the density and analysis of such gaseous 
com|)oimds of nitr(><2;en as niti'ic oxide and jxM'oxide. I have just 
heai'd from my foi-mer student, W. Iv. W. (Jray, that he has recovei'ed 
Stas's numbei- by combining 2N() with ()., while the density of NO 
leads to the lower value for the atonuc weiehl of nili-oe-en. 

'I'he (luestion of the atonuc Avei<j,'ht of tellurium appears to IH^ set- 
tled, at least so far as its position with reuard to the ec-iierally 
accepted atomic weifjlit of iodine is concerned. Recent deteiinina- 
tions <i^ive the fi^jjures 127.5 ((Jutbier), 127.('» (Pellini), and 12V.1) 
(Kothner). But is that of iodine as accurately known ^ It would 
a|)pear advisable to revise the determination of Stas, preparing the 
iodine pi'efei'ably from an oi'gauu' compound, such as iodoform, 
which can be pi-oduced in a high state of purity. The heteromor- 
|)hism ol" selenates and tellurati^s, too, has recently been demonst I'ated, 
and it may be (juestioned whether these elements should l)oth Ixdong 
to t he same group. 

'V\h\ rai'e eai'ths still remain a pu/zle. Theii- number is increas- 
ing yearly, and their claim to iudixiduality admits of less and less 
dispute. What is to be done with them^ Are they to be gi-oupc^d by 
themselves as Hi'auner and Steele pro|)()se^ If so, how is their con- 
nection with the other elements to be explained i Recent expei'iments 
in my laboratory haxc convinced me that in the case of thoi'imn, at 
least, ordinary tests of |)urity, such as line crystals, constant subliming 
{)oint, etc., do not always indicate homogeneity; oi- else that we are 
sadly in want ol" some analyt ical method of sullicient accuracy. The 
change of thorium into thorium X is pei'ha|)s hai'(ll\' an ex|)lanation 
ol" the (li\'ei"g<Micies; yet it nnisl be considei'ed ; but cd' this, more anon. 

To tui'U next to another problem closely related to the orderly 
ai'i'angement of the elements, that of \alency. but little pi'ogress can 
be chronicled. The suggestions which base been made ai'e si)ecida- 
tive rather than based on ex])eriment. The existence of many peroxi- 
dized substances, such as j)ercarbonates, ])ei'b()rates, persulphates and 
of crystalline compounds of salts with hydrogen peroxide, makes it 
difficult to draw any indisputable conclusions as regards \alency from 



PRESENT PROBLEMS OK INOKOANK' CIIKMISTRY. 211 

M roiisidoi'nt ion of owiicii compoiinds. Moissiin's !)riHiiiiil uofk on 
lliior'idcs, liowcNcr, has shown llial SI',, is (•iipiil)!^ ol slahlt- cxislcncc, 
and (his foi-nis a s(ron<.>' ai'ijunicnl in sM|)|)or( (d' ihc hcxati characici' 
of sulplnir. The (cfravalcncy (d' oxyi^cn, under hclit ( in<i^ conditions, 
too, is l)('in<2; acI<no\vl('d<i('d, and (his may he rcconcih'd wi(h (he 
existence of \va(ei' of crvs(alli/a(ion, as well as of (he pel- saKs already 
mentioned. The adhei'cnce of annnonia (o many chlorides, ni(ra(es, 
etc., p()in(s to the connectiny- link Iteiny- ascri!»alile (o (he |)enta\alencv 
of nitro<>:en ; and i( nii<!;h( he woi-lli while in\ (■s(ii;:i( ini^- similar com- 
l)onn(ls wi(h j)hos|)hoi-et(ed and arsenicorre((ed hydroi^cn, especially 
at low (empera(ures. 

The profi'ress of chemical disco\-ery, indeed, is closely c()nnec(e(l 
widi (he invendon of new mediods ol" research, or (he siil)mi(( in^- of 
ma((er (o new condidons. While Moissan Jed the way by elal)ora(in<j: 
(he elec(ric furnace, and (hns ol)(aine(l a potent agent in tei'n])era(ures 
formerly nna((ainal)le. Spring- has (ried (he eH'ec( of enormous pres- 
sure, and has recently found chemical ac(ion l)e(ween cuprous oxide 
and sulphur at ordinary temperature, proxided (he pressure he raised 
(o 8,000 adnospheres. Increase of |)i-essure ap|)ears (o lower (he tem- 
l)era(ure of I'caciion. I( has hecMi known for lonii; (ha( ex|)losions will 
no( propai^ide in rarefied oases, and (ha( (hey hecauie more \iolen( 
when the reading gases are compressed ; l)u( we are me( wi(h didicul- 
(ies, such as the noncomhination of hydrogen and ni(rogen, even a( 
high temperature and gi-eat pi-essure; yet it is |)ossil)le (o measui'c (he 
electromotive^ force (O..")!) vol( ) in a c()Ui)le consis(ing of gaseous ni(ro- 
gen and gaseous hydi-ogen, (he elec(roly(e heing a solu(ion of annno- 
nhnn in(ra(e sa(ura(e(l with annnonia. Chemical ac(ion l)e(ween dis- 
solved hydrogen and nitrogen undouhd'dly occui-s; l)u( i( is no( con- 
tinuous. A'gain we may ask, ^^'lly ^ The heat evolidion should he 
great; the gain of en(ropy should also he high wei-" direci comhinjj- 
lion to occur. Why does it not occur to any measui'ahle extents Is 
i( because for the initial stages of any chemical reac(i()n the reacting 
molecules nnist he already dissociated and (hose of nid'ogcMi are no( ^ 
Fs that in any way connec(ed wi(h (he abnormally low densi(y of 
gaseous ni(rogen !' Or is it that, in order that combination shall 
occur, the atoms nuist lit I'ach othei-; and that in oi'der that nitrogen 
and hydrogen atoms may lit they nnist be greatly distorted^ Hut 
these ari' speculative (juestions, and it is not obvious how experiments 
can be devised to answer them. 

Many compounds are stable at low ((Mnperatur(>s which dissociate 
when temperatui'c is i-aised. Kx|)eriments ai'c being made, now that 
li<juid air is to be purchased or cheaply made, on the combinations of 
substances which are inditl'erenl (o each odier a( ordinary tempera- 
tures. Vet the research nnist he a restricted oik*, foi- most substances 
are solid at — 185°, and refuse to act on each other. It is probable. 



212 PRESP^NT PROBLEMS OF INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 

liowcvfi'. llial at low t(Mii|)('ratiires c()m])()un(ls could he formod in 
wliidi one of the eleiueiits would possess a i2;reater valency than that 
usually ascribed to it : and also that double compounds of greater 
complexity would prove stable. Valency, indeed, appears to be in 
many cases a function of temperature; exothermic compounds, as 
is Avell knoAvn, are less stable the higher the temperature. The sud- 
den cooling of com])ounds produced at a high temperature may pos- 
sibly result in forms being preserved which are' unstable at ordinary 
temperatures. Ex^Deriments have been made in the hope of obtaining 
compounds of argon and helium l^y exposing various elements to the 
influence of sparks from a powerful induction coil, keeping the walls 
of the containing vessel at the temperature of liquid air, in the hope 
that any enclothermic compound which might be formed would be 
rapidly cooled and would survive the interval of temperature at 
which decomposition would take place naturally; But these experi- 
ments have, so far yielded only negative results. There is some indi- 
cation, however, that such compounds are stable at 1,500°. It might 
be hoped that a study of the behavior of the nonvalent elements 
Avould' have led to some conception of the nature of valency, but so 
far no results bearing on the question have transpired. The condi- 
tion of helium in the minerals from Avhich it is obtainable by heat is 
not explained, and experiments in this direction have not furnished 
any positive information. It is always doubtful whether it is advis- 
able to publish the results of negative experiments, for it is always 
possible that some more skilled or more fortunate investigator may 
succeed where one has failed. But it ma}^ be chronicled that attempts 
to cause combination between the inactive gases and lithium, potas- 
sium, rubidium, and ca'sium have yielded no positive results, nor 
do they appear to react with fluorine. Yet conditions of experiment 
play a leading part in causing combinations, as has been well shown 
by Moissan with the hydrides of the alkali metals, and b}^ Guntz, 
with those of the metals of the alkaline earths. The proof that 
sodium hydride possesses the formula NaH, instead of the formerly 
accepted one, removes one difficulty in the problem of valency, and 
SrH^, falls into its natural position among hydrides. 

A fertile field of inorganic research lies in the investigation of 
structure. "While the structure of organic compounds has been eluci- 
dated almost completely, that of inorganic compounds is practically 
undeveloped. Yet efforts have been made in this direction which 
appear to point a way. The nature of the silicates has been the sub- 
ject of research for many j^ears by F. AV. Clarke, and the way has 
been opened. Much may be done by treating silicates with appropri- 
ate solvents, acid or alkaline, which differentiate^ between uncombined 
and combined silica, and which in some cases, by replacement of one 
metal by another, gives a clue to constitution. The complexity of the 



PRESENT PROBLEMS OF TNORGANKJ CHKMTSTKY. 213 

niolefiilcs of inorganic compounds, which arc iisiuilly solid, forms 
another bar to invcsti<2:ation. It is clear that sulphuric acid, to choose, 
a conunon instance, possesses a very complicated molecule, and the 
fused nitrates of sodium and potassium are not correctly represented 
by the sim[)le fonnuhc NaNOg and KNO.,. Any theory of the struc- 
ture of their derivatives must take such facts into consideration; but 
we appear to be getting nearer the elucidation of the molecular 
weights of solids. Again, the complexity of solutions of th" most 
conunon salts is maintained by many investigators. For example, a 
solution of cobalt chh)ride, while it undoubtedly contains, among 
other constituents, simple molecules of CoCl,, also consists of ions of 
a complex character, such as (CoCl,)". And what holds for cobalt 
chloride also undoubtedly holds for many similai- compounds. 

In determining the constitution of the compounds of carl)on, stereo- 
chemistry has played a great part. The ordinary structural formulte 
are now universally acknoAvledged to be only pictorial, if, indeed, that 
word is legitimate. Perhaps it would be better to say that they are 
distorted attempts at pictures, the drawing of which is entirely free 
from all rules of perspective. But these formulfe may in almost 
every case be made nearly true pictures of the configuration of the 
molecules. The benzine formula, to choose an instance which is by 
no means the simplest, has been shown by Collie to be imitated by a 
model which represents in an unstrained manner the behavior of 
that body on treatment with reagents. But in the domain of inor- 
ganic chemistry little progress has been made. Some ingenious ideas 
of the geologist Sollas on this problem have hardly received the atten- 
tion which they deserve. Perhaps they may have been regarded as 
too speculative. On the other hand, Le Bel's and Pope's proof of the 
stereo-isomerism of certain compounds of nitrogen. Pope's demon- 
stration of the tetrahedral structure of the alkyl derivatives of tin, 
and Smiles's syntheses of stereo-isomeric sulphur compounds give us 
the hope that further investigation Avill lead to the classification of 
many other elements from this point of view. Indeed, the field is 
almost virgin soil, but it is well worth while cultivating. There is 
no doubt that the investigation of other organo-metallic compounds 
will result in the discovery of stereo-isomerides ; yet the methods of 
investigation capable of separating such constituents have in most 
c-ases still to l)e discovered. 

The number of chemical isomerides among inorganic compounds 
is a restricted one. AVerner has done much to elucidate this sub- 
ject in the case of complex ammonia derivatives of metals and their 
salts; but there appears to be little doubt that if looked foi-. the 
same or similar phenomena would be discoverable in compounds 
with much simpler formulse. The two forms of So.., sulphuric an- 
hydride, are an instance in point. No doubt fornuition under dif- 



214 PRESENT PROBLEMS OF INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 

ferent conditions of temperature and pressure might result in the 
greater stability of some forms which under our ordinary condi- 
tions are changeable and unstal)le. The fact that under higher 
))ressures than are generally at our disposal ditferent forms of ice 
have been proved to exist, and the applicaticm of the phase rule to 
such cases, will greath^ enlarge our Iviiowledge of molecular isom- 
erism. 

The phenouHMia of catalysis have been extensively studied of 
recent years, and have obviously an important bearing on such 
jH'oblems, A catalytic agent is one which accelerates or retards 
the velocity of reaction. Without iiKiuiring into the mechanism 
of catalysis, its existence may be made to infiuence the rate of chem- 
ical change and to render stable bodies which under ortlinar}' con- 
ditions are unstable. For if it is possible to accelerate a chemical 
change in such a way that the nsually slow and possibly unrecog- 
nizable rate of isomeric change may be made apparent and meas- 
urable, a substance the existence of which could not be recognized 
under ordinary circumstances, owing to its infinitesimal amount, 
may be induced to exist in weighable quantity if the velocity of its 
formation from an isomeride can be greatl}^ accelerated by the 
presence of an apin'opriate catalytic agent. I am not aw^are that 
attempts have been made in this direction. The discovery of cata- 
lytic agents is, as a rule, the result of accident. I do not think that 
an}^ guide exists which would ena!)le us to predict that any particu- 
lar substance would cause an acceleration or a retardation of any 
particular reaction. But catalytic agents are generally those which 
themselves, by their power of combining with or parting with 
oxygen, or some other element, cause the transfer of that element 
to other compounds to take place with increased or diminished 
velocit3^ It is possible, therefore, to cause ordinary reactions to 
take place in presence of a third body, choosing the third body with 
a view to its catalytic action, and to examine carefully the products 
of the main reaction as regards their nature and their quantity. 
Attempts have been made in this direction with marked success; 
the rate of change of hydrogen dioxide, for example, has been fairly 
well studied. l)ut what has been done for that compound may be 
extended indelinitely to others, and. doubtless, with analogous re- 
sults. Indications of the existence of as yet undiscovered compounds 
may be derived from a study of i)hysical, and particularly of elec- 
liical, changes. There appears to l)e sufficient evidence of an oxide 
of hydrogen containing more oxygen than hydrogen dioxide, from 
a study of the electromotive force of a cell containing hydrogen 
dioxide; j^et the higher oxide still awaits discovery. 

The interpretation of chemical change in the light of the ionic 



PRESENT PROBLEMS OF INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 215 

ilioory may now 1)0 taken as an inton:ral part of inorfranir chemistry. 
The ordinary reactions of (|ualilati"e and ([iiantitalive analysis are 
now aliii>)st imi\-ei'sally a-;cril)ed lo the ions, not to the molecules. 
And the study of the properties of most ions falls into the province 
of the inoi'i>anic chemist. To take a familiar example: The precipi- 
tation of hydroxides by means of annnonia solution has long led to 
the liypothesis that the solution contained ammonium hydroxide, and, 
indeed, the teachina' of the text-books and the labels (m the bottles 
supported this view. But we know now that a solution of ammonia 
in water is a complex mixture of liquid annnonia and liquid water; of 
anunonium hydroxide, XII^OII ; and of ions of ammonium (NHJ', 
and hydroxyl (OH)'. Its reactions, therefore, are those of such a 
compli'x mixture. If brought into contact with a solution of some 
substance which will withdraw the hydroxyl ions, converting them 
into water, or into some nonionized substance, they are replaced at 
the expense of the molecules of nonionized ammonium hydroxide; and 
these, when diminished in amount, draw on the store of molecules of 
annnonia and water, which combine, so as to maintain equilibrium. 
Now, the investigation of such changes must belong to the domain of 
inorganic chemistry. It is true that the methods of investigation 
are borrowed from the physical chemist; but the products lie in the 
province of the inorganic chemist. Indeed, the different departments 
of chemistry are so interlaced that it is impossible to pursue investiga- 
tions in any one branch without borrowing methods from the others ; 
and the inorganic chemist must be familiar with all chemistry if he 
is to make notable progress in his own branch of the subject. And 
if the substances and processes investigated by the inorganic chemist 
a.re destined to become commercially important, it is impossible to 
place the manufacturer on a sound commercial basis without ample 
knowledge of physical methods and their application to the most 
economical methods of accelerating certain reactions and retarding 
otlu'rs, so as to obtain the largest yield of the required product at the 
smallest cost of time, labor, and money. 

1 have endeavored to sketch some of the aspects of inorganic chem- 
istry with a view to suggesting problems for solution, or at least the 
directions in which such prol)lems are to be sought. But the develo])- 
ments of recent years have been so astonishing and so unexpected 
that I should fail in my duty were I not to allude to the phenomena 
of radio-activity and their bearing on the subject of my address. It 
is difficult to gauge the relative importance of investigations in this 
field; but 1 may be pardoned if I give a short account of what has 
already been done and point out lines of investigation which ap])ear 
to me likely to yield useful results. 
■ The wonderful discovery of radium by Madame Curie, the prepara- 



216 PRESENT PROBLEMS OF INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 

tion of practically pure compounds of it. and the determination of its 
atomic weight are familiar to all of you. Her discovery of polonium, 
and Debierne's of actinium have also attracted much attention. The 
recognition of the radio-activity of uranium by Becquerel, ^Yhich gave 
the first impulse to these discoA^eries. and of that of thorium by 
Schmidt is also well known. 

These substances, how^ever, presented at first more interest for the 
physicist than the chemist, on account of the .extraordinary power 
wdiich they all possess of emitting " rays." At first these rays were 
supposed to constitute ethereal vibrations, but all the phenomena 
Avere not explicable on that supposition. Sclimidt first, and Eiither- 
ford and Sodd}' later, found that certain so-called ^' rays " really 
consist of gases, and that while thorium emits one kind radium 
emits another, and no doubt Debierne's actinium emits a third. The 
name " emanations " Avas applied by Rutherford to such radio-active 
bodies. He and Soddy found that those of radium and thorium could 
be condensed and frozen by exposure to the temperature of liquid 
air, and that they Avere not destroyed or altered in any Avay by treat- 
ment Avith agents Avhich are able to separate all knoAvn gases from 
those of the argon grouj), namely, red-hot magnesium lime, and it 
was later found that sparking Avith oxygen in presence of caustic 
potash did not aiTer-t the gaseous emanation from radium. The con- 
clusion therefore folloAved that in all probability these bodies are 
gases of the argon group, the atomic Aveight of Avhich, and conse- 
quently the density, is very high. Indeed, several obserA^ers, by means 
of experiments on the rate of diifusion of the gas from i-adium, belieA^e 
it to haA^e a density of approximately 100, referred to the hydrogen 
standard. This conclusion has been confirmed by the mapping of the 
spectrum of the radium emanation, Avhich is similar in general char- 
acter to the spectra of the inactive gases, consisting of a number of 
Avell-defined, clearly cut brilliant lines, standing out from a black 
background. The volume of the gas produced spontaneously from a 
giA^en Aveight of radium bi-oniide in a giA^en time has been measured; 
and it Avas incidentally shown that this gas obeys Boyle's law of pres- 
sures. The amount of gas thus collected and measured, hoAvever, was 
A'ery minute; the total (juanlity Avas about the forty-thousandth of a 
cubic centimeter. 

Having noticed tliat those minerals which consist of compounds 
of uranium aiul thorium contain helium, Rutherford and Soddy nuule 
the suggestion that it might not be impossible that helium is the 
product of the spontaneous change of the emanation ; and Soddy and 
I Avere able to shoAv that this is actually the case. For, first, AAdien a 
quantity of a radium salt Avhich has been prepared for some time is 
dissolved in water the occluded helium is expelled and can be recog- 



PRKflKNT PROBLKMS OF INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 217 

iiizcd by iiicans of its s})(H'tniin: I'lii'ther, the fivsli oinaiKition shows 
i\o helium spcctnim, but after a few days the spectnini of heiiuin 
begins to appear. i)r()viim- that a spontaneous change is in j)rogress; 
and List, as the emanation (bsappears its vohune deci'eases to zero: 
and on heating tlie capilhiry ghiss tube which contained it, helium 
is driven out from the glass walls, into which its molecules had been 
embedd(>d in Nolume eipuil to tlu-ee and a half times that of the emana- 
iion. The /<'-i-ays, as foreshadowed by Rutherford and Soddy, con- 
sist of helimn particles. 

All these facts substantiate the theory, devised by Rutherfoi-d and 
Soddy, that the radiinn atom is capable of disintegration, one of the 
products being a gas, which itself undergoes further disintegi'ation, 
forming helium as one of its products. Up till now the sheet anchor 
of the chemists has been the ;dom. But the atom itself appears to 
be complex, and to be capal)le of decomposition. It is true that only 
in the case of a very few elements, and these of high atomic Aveight, 
has this been proved. But even radium, the element which has by 
fai- the most i-ai)id rate of disintegration, has a comjiaratively long 
life: the ])eri()d of half-change of any given mass of radium is ap- 
pi'oximately eleven hundred years. The rate of change of the other 
elements is incomparably slower. This change, too, at least in the 
case of radium, and its emaiuition, and presnnnibly also in the case 
of other elements, is attended with an enormous loss of energy. It 
is easy to calculate from heat measurements (and independent and 
concordant •measurements have been nnide) that 1 pound of emana- 
tion is capable of parting with as much energy as several hundred 
tons of nitroglycerine. The order of the quantity of energy evolved 
during the disintegration of the atom is as astonishing as the nature 
of the change. But the nature of the change is parallel to what 
would take i)lace if an exti-emely complicated hydrocarbon were to 
disintegrate: its disruption into simpler paraffins and olefines would 
also be attended with loss of energy. We may therefore take it, I 
think, that tlie disintegration hypothesis of Rutherford and Soddy 
is the oidy one which will meet the case. 

If radium is continually disappearing, and would totally disap- 
pear in a very few thousand years, it follows that it nuist be repro- 
duced fi-(mi other substances, at an equal rate. The most evident 
conjecture, that it is formed from uranium, has not been substan- 
tiated. Soddy has shown that salts of uranium, freed from radium, 
and left for a year, do not contain one ten-thousandth part of the 
radium that one would expect to be formed in the time. It is evi- 
dent, therefore, that radium must owe its existence to the presence of 
some other sulistances. but what they are is still unascertained. 
■ Dm-ino- the investigation of Rutherford and Soddy of the thorium 



218 PKESENT PROBLEMS OF INORGANIC CHEMISTRY, 

oiiiaiiation, a most interestino; fact was observed, namely, that pre- 
cipitation of the thorium as liydroxide by ammonia h'ft luiprecipi- 
tated a substance, which they termed " tliorium-X." and which was 
itself highly radio-active. Its radio-active life, however, was a short 
one; and as it decayed, it was reproduced from its parent thorium at 
an equal rate. Here is a case analogous to what was sought for with 
radium and uranium; but evidently uranium is not the only parent 
of radium; the operation is not one of parthenogenesis. Similar 
facts have been elicited for uranium by Crookes. 

The ^I'-rays, caused by the disintegration of radium and of its em- 
anation, are accompanied by rays of quite a dilferent character; 
they are the /^-rays, identical wdth electrons, the mass of which has 
been measured by J. J. Thomson and others. These particles are 
projected with enormous velocity, and are capable of penetrating 
glass and metal screens. The power of penetration appears to be 
proportional to the amount of matter in the screen, estimated by its 
density. These electrons are not matter; but, as I shall relate, they 
are capable of causing profoimd changes in matter. 

For the past j'^ear a solution of radium bromide has been kept in 
three glass bulbs, each connected to a Topler pump b}^ means of capil- 
lary tubing. To insure these bulbs against accident each was sur- 
rounded by a small beaker; it happened that one of these beakers 
consisted mainly of potash glass; the other two were of soda glass. 
The potash-glass beaker became brown, while the two soda -glass 
beakers became purple. I think there is every probability that the 
colors are due to liberation of the metals potassium and sodium in 
the glass. They are contained in that very viscous litpiid, glass, in 
the colorless ionic state ; but these ions are discharged by the yS-rays 
or negative electrons, and each metal imparts its own peculiar color 
to the glass, as has been shown by Maxwell Garnett. This phe- 
nomenon, how^ever interesting, is not the one to which I desire to 
draw special attention. It must be remembered that the beakers 
have been exposed only to /?-rays; o'-rays have never been in contact 
with them; they have never been bombarded by what is usually 
called matter, except by the molecules of the surrounding air. Now, 
these colored beakers are radio-active, and the radio-active film dis- 
solves in water. After careful washing, the glass Avas no longer 
radio-active. The solution contains an emanation, for on l)ubbling 
air through it, and cooling the issuing air with liquid air, part of the 
radio-active matter was retained in the cooled tube. This substance 
can be carried into an electroscoi)e by a current of air, after the liquid 
air has been Avithdrawn, and as long as the air current passes, the 
electroscope is discharged; the period of decay of this emanation, 
however, is very rapid, and on ceasing the current of air, the leaves of 



PRESENT PROBLEMS OF INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 219 

(he electroscope cease to he (lischar«:ed. In liavino- such a shoi't period 
t)i' existence, this emanation resenihles (he one from actininni. 

Owing (o (lie recess, only a eoiniiienceiiuMU has been made with (he 
in\(>stiiia(ion of the resi(hie left on exaporation of (lie a(iiie()ns soln- 
(ion. On evaporation, the ivsidue is strongly active. Some niercn- 
:<)iis nitrate was then added (o (lie dissolved residue, and i( was treated 
with hydrochloric acid in excess, to preci[)itate mercnroiis chloride. 
The greater pai't of the ae(ive matter was (hrown down wi(h (he mer- 
riirous chloride, hence it ai)i)ears to foiMu an ins(»liil)le chloride. The 
mercnrous chloride retained its activity nnchaiiged in amount for 
(en (lavs. The filtrate from the mercnrous chloi'ide, on evaporation, 
(iirned oii( (o be active; and on precipitating mercuric sulphide in it, 
the sulphide precipitate was also active; but its activity decayed in 
one day. The iiltrate from the mercuric sulphide gave inactive pre- 
cipitates with ferric salts and annnonia, with zinc salts and am- 
monium sulphide, with calcium salts and ammonium carbonate; and 
on final evaporation the residue was not radio-active. Hence the 
active matter forms an insoluble chloride and sulphide. The pre- 
cipitated mercnrous chloride and mercuric suli)hide were dissolved 
m aqua regia, and the solution was evaporated. The residue was 
dissolved in w^ater, and left the dish inactive. But the solution gave 
an insoluble sulphate, when barium chloride and sulpliuric acid were 
added to it, hence the radio-active element forms an insolul)le sul- 
l)hate, as well as an insoluble chloride and sulphide. 

This is a sample of the experiments which have been made. It 
may be remarked that the above results were obtained from a mixture 
of the potash and soda glass; somewhat different results were ob- 
tained from the potash glass alone. These changes appear to be due 
to the conversion of one or more of the constituents of the glass into 
other bodies. Needless to say, neither of the samples of glass con- 
tained lead. 

I have mentioned these experiments in detail, because I think thev 
suo-trest wholly new lines of investigation. It would appear that if 
enerov can be jjoured into a definite chemical matter, such as glass, 
it undergoes some change, and gives rise to bodies capable of being- 
tested, for I imagine tha( ladio-active foi-ms of matter are produced, 
either identical with or allied to those at picseiit known. And just 
as radium and other radio-active elements siilh'r degradation sponta- 
neously, evolving energy, so T ventuie to think that if energy be con- 
centrated in the molecules of ordinary forms of matter, a sort of poly- 
merization is the result, and radio-active elements, probably elements 
with high atomic weight, and themselves unstable, are formed. Of 
course further research may gi'(>atly modify these views; but some 
guide is necessary, and JSlr. Ternent Cook, wlu) has helped me in these 



220 PRESENT PROBLEMS OF INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. 

experiments, and I suggest this hypothesis (in the words of Dr. John- 
stone Stoney, a hypothesis is '' a supposition which we hope may be 
useful ") to serve as a guide for future eudeaA'or. 

In the liglit of such facts. s|)ecuhi(ion on the periodic arrangement 
of the elements is surely premature. It is open to anyone to malce 
suggestions; the}^ are self-evident. Most of you will agree with the 
saying, '' It is easy to prophesy after the event.'' 1 ])refer to wait 
until prophecy becomes easy. 

I nnist ask your indulgence for having merely selected a few out of 
the many possible views as regards the problems of inorganic chem- 
istry. I can oidy plead in excuse that my task is not an easy one: 
and I venture to express the hope that some light has been thrown on 
the shady paths which penetrate that dark region which we term the 
future. 



EVOLUTION OF TIIK SCIKNTIFIC INVESTIGATOK." 



By Simon Nkwcomb. 



As Ave look at the asseinblajic oatlicivd in (his hall, coiuprisintr so 
iiiaiiv naiiu's of widest renown in every branch of learning — we might 
nhuost sav in every field of human endeavor — the first iiuiuiry sug- 
-icsted must be after the object of our meeting. The answer is that 
our purpose corresponds to the eminence of the assemblage. We ann 
at nothing less than a sui-vey of the realm of knowledge, as compre- 
hensive as is permitted by the limitations of time and space. The 
organizers of our congress hiwe honored me with the charge of pre- 
senting such preliminary view of its field as may make clear the 
spirit of our undertaking. 

Certain tendencies characteristic of the science of our day clearly 
sdii-o-est the direction of our thoughts most appro[)riate to the occasion. 
Among the strongest of these is one toward laying greater stress on 
questions of the beginning of things, and regarding a knoAvledge of 
the laws of development of any object of study as necessary to the 
understanding of its present form. It may be conceded that the 
principle hei-e involved is as api)licable in the broad field before us as 
in a special research into the properties of the minutest organism. 
It therefore seems meet that Ave should begin by inquiring what 
airency has bi-ought about the i-euiarkabl(> development of science to 
which the world of to-day bears witness. This view is recognized in 
the plan of our i)r()ceedings by providing for each great department 
of knowledge a revicAV of its j)rogress during the century that has 
(•la])sed since the great event counnemorated by the scenes outside this 
hall. But such revicAvs cjo not make up that general survey of science 
at large which is necessary to the development of oui' theme, and 
Avhich nnist include the action of causes that had their origin long 
before our time. The movement Avhich culminated in making the 
nineteenth century e\-er memorable in history is the outcome of a 
long series of causes, acting through many centuries, which are Avorthy 

« Opening address at the International Congress of Arts and Science, St. T.ouis, 
September 10, lOO-t. Reprinted from author's revised copy. 

221 



222 EVOLUTION OP" THE SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATOR, 

of especial attention on such an occasion as this. In setting them 
forth we should axoiil layin<i' stress on those visible manifestations 
which, strilving tiie eye of every behokler, are in no danger of liein"' 
overh)oked, and search ratlier for tliose agencies Avhose activities 
underlie the whoh' visible scene, but which are liable to be blotted 
out of sight by the very brilliancy of the results to which they Iiave 
given rise. It is easy to draw attention to the wonderful qualities 
of the oak; but. from that very fact, it may be needful to point out 
that the real wonder lies concealed in the acorn from which it grew. 

Our inquiry into the logical order of the causes Avhich have made 
our civilization Avhat it is to-day will be facilitated by bringing to 
mind certain elementary considerations — ideas so familiar that setting 
them forth may seem like citing a body of truisms — and yet so fre- 
quently overlooked, not only individually, but in their relation to 
each other, that the conclusion to which they lead may be lost to 
sight. One of these propositions is that psychical rather than njate- 
rial causes are those which we should regard as fundamental in direct- 
ing the development of the social organism. The human intellect is 
the really active agent in every branch of endeavor — the primum 
mobile of civilization — and all those material manifestations to which 
our attention is so often directed are to be regarded as secondary to 
this first agency. If it l)e true that " in the world is nothing great 
but man; in man is nothing great but mind," then should the key- 
note of our discourse be the recognition of this first and greatest of 
powers. 

Another well-known fact is that those applications of the forces 
of natiu-e to the promotion of human Avelfare which have made our 
age what it is are of such comparatively recent origin that we need 
go back only a single century to antedate their most important fea- 
tures, and scarcely more than four centuries to find their beginnig. 
It follows that the subject of our inquiry should be the commence- 
ment, not many centuries ago, of a certain new form of intellectual 
activit}'. 

Having gained this point of view, our next inquiry Avill be into the 
nature of that activity and its relation to the stages of progress wdiicli 
preceded and followed its beginning. The superficial observer, who 
sees the oak l)ut forgets the acorn, might tell us that the special 
(jualities which have brought out such great results are expert scien- 
tific knowledge and rare ingenuity, directed to the application of 
the powers of steam and electricity. Fi-om this point of view the 
great inventors and the great captains of industry were the first 
agents in bringing about the modern era. But the more careful 
inquirer will see that the work of these men was possible only through 
a knowledge of the laws of nature, which had been gained by men 
whose work took precedence of theirs in logical order, and that 



EVOLUTION OF THE HCIENTIFIC INVESTKJ ATOR. 223 

success in invonlion has hccii nicasin'cd \)\ coiuplclciicss in such knowl- 
iHl<je. WhiU' ^ivin^- all <hw honor (o (he <ir('a( iiiNcnloi-s. h't us 
ivmenilKM- (hat the first place is that of the «>reat invest i<rators, whoso 
forceful intellects opened the way to seci'ets previously hidden from 
men. Let it he an honor and not a I'eproach to these men that they 
were not ai-tuated by the love of <2:ain, and did not keep utilitarian 
ends in view in the pursuit of theii- reseaivhes. Tf it seems that in 
neglectinii; such ends they were leavin<i- inidone the most im])oi-tant. 
part of their work, let us remember that nature turns a forbiddiu": 
face to those who pay her court with th(> lioi)e of iiain, and is respon- 
sive only to those suitors whose love for her is pure and undefiled. 
Not only is the special genius required in the i n vest i gator not that 
generally best adapted to applying the discoveries which he makes, 
but the result of his having sordid ends in view would be to narrow 
the field of his efforts and exercise a depressing etl'ect upon his activi- 
ties. The true man of science has no such expression in his vocabu- 
lary as " useful knowledge." His domain is as wide as nature itself, 
and he best fulfills his mission Avhen he leaves to others the task of 
applying the knowledge he gives to the world. 

We have here the explanation of the well-known fact that the 
functions of the investigator of the laws of nature and of the 
inventor Avho applies these laws to utilitarian purposes are rarely 
united in the same person. If the one conspicuous exception which 
the past century presents to this rule is not unique, we should prob- 
ably have to go back to "Watt to find another. 

From this viewpoint it is clear that the primary agent in the move- 
ment AAhich has elevated man to the masterful position he now^ occu- 
pies is the scientific investigator. He it is whose work has deprived 
plague and pestilence of their terrors, alleviated human sufi'ering, 
girdled the earth with the electric wire, bound the continent with the 
iron Avay, and made neighbors of the most distant nations. As the first 
agent which has made possible this meeting of his representatives, 
let his evolution be this day our v.orthy theme. As Ave follow the 
evolution of an organisni by studying the stages of its growth, so we 
have to show how the work of the scientific investigator is related to 
the ineffectual efforts of his predecessors. 

In our time we think of the process of development in nature as one 
going continuously foi-v, ard through the combination of the opposite 
processes of evolution and dissolution. The tendency of our thought 
has been in the direction of banishing cataclysms to the theological 
limbo and vi(Mving natin-e as a sleepless plodder, endowed with in- 
finite patience, waiting through long ages for results. I do not con- 
test the truth of the principle of continuity on which this view is 
based. But it fails to make known to us the whole truth. The 
building of a ship from the time that her keel is laid until she is making 



224 EVOLUTION OF THE SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATOR. 

her way across the ooefui is a slow and gradual process; yet there is a 
cataclysmic epoch opening up a new era in her history. It is the mo- 
ment when, after lying for months or ^'^ears a dead, inert, innuovable 
mass, she is suddenly endowed w^ith the power of motion, and, as if 
imbued with life, glides into the stream, eager to begin the careei- for 
which she was designed. 

I think it is thus in the development of humanity. Long ages may 
pass during which a race, to all external observation, appears to be 
making no real progress. Additions may be made to learning and the 
records of history mav constantly grow, but there is nothing in its 
sphere of thought or in the features of its life that can be called 
essentially new. Yet nature may have been all along slowly w^orking 
in a way which evades our scrutiny until the result of her operations 
suddenly appears in a new and revolutionary movement, carrying the 
race to a higher plane of civilization. 

It is not difficult to point out such epochs in hiunan progress. The 
greatest of all, because it was the first, is one of which we find no rec- 
ord either in written or geological history. It w^as the epoch when 
our progenitors first took conscious thought of the morrow, first used 
the crude w^eapons which nature had placed within their reach to kill 
their prey, first built a fire to w^arm their bodies and cook their food. 
I love to fancy that there was some one first man, the Adam of evolu- 
tion. Avho did all this, and wdio used the power thus acquired to show 
his fellows how they might profit by his example. AMien the members 
of the tribe or community which he gathered around him began to 
conceive of life as a whole — to include .yesterday, to-day, and to- 
morrow in the same mental grasp — to think how they might ap]:)ly 
the gifts of nature to their own uses, a movement w^as begun Avhich 
should ultimately lead lo civilization. 

Long indeed must have been the ages required for the development 
of this rudest primitive community into the civilization revealed 
to us by the most ancient tablets of Egypt and Assyria. After 
spoken language Avas developed, and after the rude representation 
of ideas by visible marks draw^n to resemble them had long been 
practiced, some Cadmus must have invented an alphabet. When 
the use of written language was thus introduced, the word of com- 
mand ceased to be confined to the range of the human voice, and it 
became possible for master minds to extend their influence as far 
as a written message could be carried. Then Avere communities 
gathered into provinces, provinces into kingdoms, kingdoms into 
the great empires of antiquity. Then arose a stage of civilization 
wdiich we find pictured in the most ancient records — a stage in 
which men were governed by laws that were perhaps as wisely 
adapted to their conditions as our laws are to ours — in which the 



EVOLUTION OF 'I'HK SCI KNTIFIC INVESTKJ ATOK. 225 

plu'iioini'iia of iiaduv wore I'luloly ohsorvod, aiul strikiiii; occiii'i'ouces 
in llic earth oi- in (he licaxciis recorded in (he annals of (he nation. 

\'as( was the proiiress of knowledgfe (hii'in*^- (he in(erva] l)etwcen 
these empires and (he century in which modern science he<>;an. "^'et, 
if I am riiild in makin<; a (listinc(i()n between the slow and i-e<2:uhir 
steps of j)r()g-ress, each <>'rowini>' naturally out of that which pre- 
ceded it, and the entrance of the mind at some fairly definite epoch 
into an entirely new sphei'c of ac(ivi(y, it would appear that there 
was only one such epoch (hirinii; (he en(ii-e in(erval. This was wdien 
abstract acometi'ical reasonin<>' connnenced, and astronomical observa- 
tions aiming at precision were recorded, compared, and discussed. 
Closely associated with it nuist have been the construction of the 
forms of loo:ic. The radical diti'erence l)etween the demonstration 
of a theorem of geometiT and the reasoning of everyday life which 
the masses of men must have practiced from the beginning, and 
which few even to-day ever get l)eyond, is so evident at a glance 
that I need not (hvell upon it. The principal feature of this ad- 
vance is that, by one of those antinomies of the human intellect of 
Avhich examples are not Avanting even in our time, the develop- 
ment of abstract ideas jn-eceded the concrete knowledge of 
natural phenomena. AVhen we reflect that in the geometry of 
Kuclid the science of space was brought to such logical perfection 
that even to-day its teachers are not agreed as to the practicability 
of any great improvement upon it, we can not av^oid the feeling that 
a very slight change in the direction of the intellectual activity of 
the (ireeks would have led to the beginning of natural science. But 
it would seem that the very purity and perfection which was aimed 
at in their system of geometry stood in the w^ay of any extension or 
application of its methods and spirit to the field of nature. One 
exam))le of this is worthy of attention. In modern teaching the 
idea of magnitiuU' as generated by motion is freely introduced. A 
line is described by a moving point; a plane by a moving line; a 
solid by a moving plane. It may, at first sight, seem singular that 
this concejition finds no place in the Euclidian system. But we may 
regard the omission as a mark of k)gical purity and rigor. Had the 
real or supposed advantages of introducing motion into geometrical 
conceptions been suggested to Euclid, we nuiy sup])ose him to have 
replied that the theorems of space are independent of time; that the 
idea of motion necessarih^ implies time, and that, in consequence, tp 
avail ourselves of it would be to introduce an extraneous element into 
geometry. 

It is quite possible that the contempt of the ancient philosophers 
for the practical apjilication of their science, which has continued 
in' some form to our own time, and which is not altogether unwhole- 
SM 1904 15 



226 EVOLUTION OF THE SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATOR. 

sonic, was a powerful factor in the same (lii'cctioii. The result was 
that, in keeping geometrv pure from ideas which did not belong to 
it. it failed to form what might otherwise have been the basis of 
physical science. Its founders missed the discovery that methods 
similar to those of geometric demonstration could be extended into 
other and Avider fields than that of sjoace. Thus, not only the devel- 
opment of applied geometry, but the reduction of oth(>r conceptions 
to a rigorous mathematical form was indefinitely postponed. 

Astronomy is necessarily a science of observation pure and simi)le, 
in which experiment can have no place except as an auxiliary. The 
vague accounts of striking celestial phenomena handed down by the 
priests and astrologers of antiquity Avere followed in the time of the 
Greeks by observations having, in form at least, a rude approach to 
precision, though nothing like the degree of precision that the as- 
tronomer of to-day would reach wath the naked eye, aided by such 
instruments as he could fashion from the tools at the command of the 
ancients. 

The rude observations connnenced by the Babylonians were con- 
tinued with gradnall}^ improving instruments — first by the Greeks 
and afterwards by the Arabs — but the results failed to afford any 
insight into the true relation of the earth to the heavens. AMiat 
Avas most remarkable in this failure is that, to take a first step for- 
Avard AA'hich would have led on to success, no more Avas necessary 
than a course of abstract thinking A^astly easier than that required 
for Avorking out the problems of geometry. That space is infinite is 
an unexpressed axiom, tacitly assumed by Euclid and his successors. 
Combining this Avith the most elementary consideration of the prop- 
erties of the triangle, it Avould be seen that a body of any giA^en size 
could be placed at such a distance in space as to appear to us like a 
point. Hence, a l)ody as large as our earth, AAhich Avas knoAvn to be 
a globe from the time that the ancient Phamicians navigated the 
^lediterranean, if placed in the heaAcns at a sufficient distance, 
Avould look like a star. The obvious conclusion that the stars might 
be bodies like our globe, shining either by their own light or l)y that 
of the sun. would haA^e been a first step to the understanding of the 
true system of the Avorld. 

'J'hei-e is liistoric evidence that (his de(hiclion did not wholly es- 
cap(> the (jireek thinkers. - It is true that the critical student Avill 
assign little weight to the curnMit belief that the A^ague theory of 
Pj'thagoras — that fire AA-as at the center of all things — imi)lies a con- 
ce])ti()n of the heliocentric theoi-y of the solar system. But the testi- 
mony of Archimedes, confused though it is in form, leaves no serious 
doubt that Aristarchus of Samos not only propounded the A'ieAV that 
the earth rcA'olA^es both on its own axis and around the sun, but that 
he correctly removed the great stumbling-block in the AAay of this 



EVOLUTION (»K TllK SCIENTIFIC I N VESTIO ATOK. 'I'll 

theory 1)V :ul(]in<i' llinl the disljuu-e of Iho fixed stars was iiilinitely 
orealei' than the diiiieiisions of the earth's oi-l)i(. Even tlie worM of 
j)liih)S()|)hy was not yet ready foi' this eoiiceptioii, and, so I'ai' from 
seein<i" the reasonabh'ness of the exi)hination, we lind PtohMny ai'gn- 
in<i" aL>:ainst the rotation of the earth on <rronnds wliieh oarefnl oh- 
ser\a(ions of the phenomena aronnd him wonld have shown to he ill- 
fonndetl. 

Physiral >cience, if we can iip[)ly that term to an mico-ordinated 
body of faets, was successfnlly cnltivated from the earliest times. 
Sonu^thinu: mnst have b(>eii Known of the pi'opei'ties of metals, and 
the art of extraetiii<>: them from their ores must have been practiced 
from the time that coins and medals wore first stamped. The prop- 
erties of the most common compounds were discovered by alchemists 
in their vain search for the ])hilosopher's stone, but no actual pro<*:ress 
worthy of the name rewarded the practiti(mers of the black art. 

lVrhai)s the first a})proach to a correct method was that of Archi- 
medes, who by nnich thinkin*!; worked out the law of the lever, 
reached the conception of the center of gravity, and demonstrated 
the first princii)les of hydrostatics. It is remarkable that he did not 
extend his researches into the i)henomena of motion, whether sponta- 
neous oi- [)roduced by force. The stationary condition of the human 
intellect is most strikingly illustrated l)y the fact that not until the 
time of Leonardo Avas any substantial advance made on his discovery. 
To sum u}) in one sentence the most characteristic feature of ancient 
and mediaeval science, we see a notable contrast between the precision 
of thought implied in the construction and demonstration of geomet- 
rical theorems ancf the vague indefinite character of the ideas of 
natural phenomena generally, a contrast which did not disajjpear 
until the foundations of modern science began to be laid. 

We should miss the most essential point of the diiference between 
meijia'val and modern learning if we looked upon it as mainly a dif- 
fei-ence either in the precision or the amount of knowledge. The 
development of both of these qualities would, under any circum- 
stances, have been slow and gradual, but sure, ^^'e can hardly su})- 
})ose that any one generation, or even any one century, would have 
seen the complete substitution of exact for inexact ideas. Slowness 
of growth is as inevitable in the case of knowledge as in that of a 
growing organism. The most essential point of dilference is one of 
those seemingly slight ones, the importance of which we are too apt 
to overlook. Tt was like the droj) of l)lood in the wrong place, which 
some one has told us makes all the difference between a i)hiloso])her 
and a maniac. It was all the difl'erence betAveen a living ti-ee and a 
dead one, between an in(>rt mass and a gi-owing organism. The tran 
sition of knowledge from the dead to the living form must, in any 
complete review of the subject, be looked upon as the really great 



228 EVOLUTION OF THK SCIKNTIFIC IN VESTIGATOK. 

event of iiiodei'ii times. r)ei"()re tliis event the intellect was hound down 
hv a scholasticism which reiiai'<led knowled_i>e as a rounded whole, 
the parts of which weiv written in hooks and carried in the minds of 
learned men. The student was taui>ht from the heoinning- of his 
Avoi-k to look ujion authority as the foundation of his beliefs. The 
oldei- the authority the greater the weight it can-ied. So effective 
Avas this teaching that it seems never to have occurred to individual 
men that they had all the opportunities ever enjoyed by Aristotle of 
discovering ti-uth. with the added advantage of all his knowdedge to 
begin with. Advanced as was the develoi)ment of formal logic, that 
|)i-actical logic was wanting wdiicli could see that the last of a series 
of authorities, every one of which rested on those wdiich ])receded it, 
could never form a surer foundation for any doctrine than that su]")- 
plied by its original propouiider. 

The result of this view- of knowledge was, that although during 
the fifteen centuries following the death of the geometer of Syracuse 
great uniA'ersities were founded at which generations of professors 
exjjonnded all the learning of their time, neither professor nor student 
over suspected what latent possil)ilities of good Av.ere concealed in the 
most familiar operations of nature. Everyone felt the wind blow, 
saw w^ater boil, and heard the thunder crash, but never thought of 
investigating the forces here at play. Up to the middle of the 
fifteenth century the most acute observer could scarcely have seen 
the dawn of a new era. 

In view of this state of things, it must be regarded as one of the 
most renuirkable facts in evolutionary history that four or five men, 
whose mental constitution was either typical of the new order of 
things or who were pow^erful agents in bringing it about, were all 
Itorn dui-ing the fifteenth century, four of them at least at so nearly 
the same time as to be contemporaries. 

T^eonardo da \^inci, whose artisti(^ genius has charmed succeeding 
generations, was also the first practical engineer of his time, and the 
first man after Archimedes to make a substantial advance in develoj)- 
ing the laws of motion. That the world was not prepared to make 
use of his scientific discoveries does not detract from the significance 
which must attach to the period of his birth. 

Shortly after him was born the great navigator whose bold spirit 
was to make known a new world, thus giving to connnercial enter- 
prise that impetus which w^as so powerful an agent in bringing about 
a revolution in the thoughts of men. 

The birth of Columbus was soon followed by that of Coi)ernicus, 
the first after Aristarchus to demonstrate the true system of the 
w^orld. In him more than in any of his contemporaries do we see the 
struggle between the old forms of thought and the new. It seems 
almost i)athetic, and is certainly most suggestive of the general view 



KVOLUTION OK TllK SCIKNTIFK" I N V KS'I'IO A'l'OK. 'J2'.) 

of kiiowlcdii'c taken at that time, that instead of elaiiniuii' credit for 
hriiiiiiiii:' to light great ti'iitlis Ixd'oiv iinkiiowii he made a lahored 
attempt to show that after all there was nothing really lu'w in his 
^ystem. which he claimed to date from Pythagoras and Philolaus. 
In this connection it is curious that he makes no mention of Aris- 
tarchus, who, I think, will \)(\ regarded by conservative histoi'ians 
as his only demonstrated predecessor. To the hold of the older ideas 
u[)on his mind we nnist attribute the fact that in constructing his 
system he took great pains to make as little change as possible in 
ancient conce})tions. 

Luther, the greatest tliought stirrer of them all, practically of the 
same generation with Copernicus, Leonardo, and Columbus, does not, 
come in as a scientifi(t investigator, l)ut as the great loosener of chains 
which had so fettered the intellect of men that they dared not think 
otherwise than as the authorities thought. 

Almost coeval with the advent of these intellects was the invention 
of printing witli moval)le type. (lutenl)ei'g was born during the lirst 
decade of the century, and his associates and others credited with 
the invention not many years afterwards. If we accept the principle 
on which T am basing my argument, that we should assign the first 
place to the l)irth of those psychic agencies which started men on new 
lines of thought, then surely was the fifteenth the wonderful century. 

Let us not forget that, in assigning the actors then born to their 
])laces, we are not narrating history, but studying a special phase 
of evolution. It matters not for us that no university invited Leo- 
nardo to its halls, and that his science was xalued by his contempo- 
raries only as an adjunct to the art of engineering. The great fact 
still is that he was the first of mankind to propound laws of motion. 
It is not for anything in Luther's doctrines that he finds a ])lace in 
our scheme. Xo matter for us Avhether they were sound or nor. 
\Miat he did toward the evolution of the scientific investigator was 
to show by his example that a man might cpiestion the best-estab- 
lished and most venerable authority and still live, still i)reserve his 
intellectual integrity, still connnand a hearing from nations and 
their I'ulers. It matters not for us whether Columbus ever knew 
that he had discovered a new continent. His work was to teach 
that neither hydra, chimera, nor abyss — neither divine injunction nor 
infei-na! machination — was in the way of men visiting every part of 
the glol)e, and that the i)r<)blem of concpiering the world reduced itself 
to one of sails and rigging, hull and compass. The better part of 
('ojiernicus was to direct man to a view |)()int whence he should see 
that the heavens were of like matter with the earth. All this done, 
the acorn was planted from which the oak of our civilization should 
Hpring. The mad quest for gold which followed the discovery of 
Columbus, the (juestionings which absorbed the attention of (he 



2cJ0 EVOLUTION OF THE SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATOR. 

learned, the indio-nation excited by the seeming vagaries of a Par- 
celsus, the fear and trembling lest the strang{> doctrine of Copernicus 
should undermine the faith of centuries, wvvv ail heli)s to the germi- 
nation of the seed — stiuudi to tliouglit Avhicii urged it on to explore 
the new fields opened up to its occupation, 'i'his given, all that has 
since followed came out in regular order of development, and need 
be here considered only in those phases having a special relation to 
the purpose of our present meeting. 

So slow was the growth at first that the sixteenth century may 
scarcely have recognized the inauguration of a new era. Torricelli 
and Benedetti were of the third generation after Leonardo, and 
Galileo, the first to make a substantial advance upon his theoi'v, was 
born more than a century after him. Only two or three men ap- 
peared in a generation who, working alone, could make real j^rogress 
in discovery, and even these could do little in leavening the minds 
of their fellow-men Avith the new ideas. 

Up to the middle of the seventeenth century an agent which all 
experience since that time shows to be necessary to the most pro- 
ductive intellectual activity was wanting. This was the attrition of 
like minds, making suggestions to each other, criticising, compai-ing, 
and reasoning. This element was introduced by the organization 
of the Royal Society of London and the Academy of Sciences of Paris. 

The members of these two bodies seem like ingenious youth sud- 
denly thrown into a new world of interesting objects, the purposes 
and relations of which they had to discover. The novelty of the situ- 
ation is strikingly shown in the questions which occupied the minds of 
the incipient investigators. One natural result of British maritime 
enterprise was that the aspirations of the Fellows of the Royal 
Society were not confined to any continent or hemisphere. Inquiries 
were sent all the way to Batavia to know " whether there be a hill 
in Sumatra which burnetii continually and a fountain which runneth 
pure balsam." The astronomical precision with which it seemed 
possil)le that physiological operations might go on was evinced bv 
the inquiry whether the Indians can so prepare that stupefying herb 
Datura that " they make it lie several days, months, years, according 
as they will, in a man s body Avithout doing him any harm, and at the 
end kill him without missing an hour's time." Of this continent one of 
the incjuiries was whether there be a tree in Mexico that yields water, 
wine, vinegar, milk, honey, wax, thread, and needle . 

Among the problems before the l^aris Academy of Sciences those 
of physiology and biology took a prominent place. The distillation 
of compounds had long been practiced, and the fact that the more 
spirituous elements of certain substances Avere thus separated natu- 
rally led to the question whether the essential essences of life might not 
be discoverable iu (he sauie way. In order that all might participate 



EVOLU'rioN OK THE SCTENTIKIC I NNESTlGA'iOll. 231 

ill llic ('.\])("rini('nls (licv wci'c conducted in ojkmi session of (he 
Mciidcniy. (hus o-ii;irdinif :iu':iins( (lie daniiHM' of .-iny one nienilxM' oh- 
(ainiiii:- for lii^ exclusixc personal use a possible elixer of life. A 
wide ranu'e of (he animal and ve«>-e(al)le kiiiii-doni. includinji," cats, 
doys. and birds of various si)ecies, were (hus analyzed. The ])ractice 
of di>sec(ion was ind'oduced on a lari^'e scale. That of the cadaver 
of an elei)han( occupied several sessions, and was of such in(erest (ha( 
(he monarch himself was a spec(ator. 

To (he -aiue epoch with (he foi'uudiou and firs( woi'k of tliese (wo 
l)odies l)elon<>"s the invention of a nia(hema(ical mediod which in its 
impor(ance (o (lie advance of exact science may be classed with the 
inxcnlion of the alphabet in its I'elation to the progress of society 
at lai'ii'c. The use of alii'ebraic symbols to represent (imintities had 
its origin bcd'ore the couunencement of the new" era, and <i"radually 
•i'l-ew into a hiii'hly developed form durinij^ the first two centuries 
of (hat era. But this method could represent (juantities only as lixed. 
It is (rue that the elasticity inherent in the use of such symbols per- 
mitted of their being applied to an}^ and every quantity; yet, in any 
one application, the (juantity was considered as fixed and definite. 
But most of (he magnitudes of natnre are in a state of continual vari- 
a(ion; indeed, since all motion is variation, the latter is a universal 
cliarac(t'ris(ic of all phenomena. No serious advance could be made 
in (he a})[)lica(ion of algel)raic langiuige to the expression of physical 
phenomena until it could be so extended as to ex})ress variation in 
(|uan(i(ies, as well as the qnantities themselves. This extension, 
workecl out in(hqxMidently by Newton and Leibnitz, may be classed 
as tlie most fruitful of conceptions in exact science. With it the way 
was opened for (he unimpeded and condnually accelerated progress 
of the two last centuries. 

The fea(ure of (his j)eriod which has the closest reLition to the 
l)urpose of our coming together is the seemingly unending sub- 
(iix'ision of knowledge into speciaUies, many of which are becoming 
so minu(e and so isolated that (hey seem (o ha\'e no in(erest for aii}^ 
but (heir few pursuei's. Happily science iiself has afi'orded a cor- 
rective for its own tendency in this direction. The careful thinker 
will see that in (hese seemingly di\-erging branches connuon elemen(s 
and common ])rinciples are condng more and more to ligld. Thei-e 
is an increasing rec()giu(i()n of mediods of research and of deducdon 
which are common (o large branches or (o (h" whole of science. We 
are more and more recognizing (he pi'inciple (hat progress in knowd- 
v(\<yv imi)lies i(s reihulion (o moiv exact forms, and (he expression 
of i(s ideas in language more or less ma(hema( ical. The jM-obleni 
before the organizers of (his congress was. (herefore, to bring (he 
si'iences (ogether and seek for (he nni(y which we believe inulerlies 
their infinite di\'ersitv. 



232 EVOLUTION OF THE SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATOR. 

The asHenil)ling of such a hody as now fills this hall was scarcely 
possible ill any ])r('cc(liii<>' veneration, and is iiiacle possible now only 
through the aijency oi" science itself. It dilfers from all preceding 
international meetings by the universality of its sco])e, wliich aims 
to include the whole of knowledge. It is also unique in that none 
but leaders have been sought out as members. It is iiniciue in that so 
many lands have delegated their choicest intellects to carry on its 
work. They come from the country to which our Hei)ublic is indebted 
for a third of its territory, including the ground on Avliich we stand; 
from the land which has taught us that the most scholarly devotion 
to the languages and learning of the cloistered past is compatible 
with leadership in the [)ractical application of modern science to the 
arts of life; from the island whose language and literature have 
found a new field and a vigorous growth in this region; from the 
last seat of the holy Roman Empire; from the country which, re- 
menib(M"ing a monarch who made an astronomical ()bser\ation at the 
(jreenwich Observatory, has enthroned science in one of the highest 
places in its government; from the peninsula so leaiiied that we 
have invited one of its scholars to come and tell us of our own 
language; from the land which gave birth to Leonardo, Galileo, 
Torricelli, Columbus, Yolta — what an array or immortal names! — 
from the little republic of glorious history which, breeding men 
rugged as its eternal snow peaks, has yet Ix'cii the seat of scientiric 
investigation since the day of the lieriioullis; from the land whose 
iieroic dwellers did not hesitate to use the ocean itself to protect it 
against invaders, and which now makes us inarAel at the amount of 
erudition comi)ressed Avithin its little area; from the nation across 
the Pacific, which by half a century of iinequaled ])rogress in the 
arts of life has made an important contribution to evolutionary sci- 
ence through demoiistrating the falsity of the theory that the most 
ancient races are doomed to be left in the rear of the advancing age — 
in a word, from every great center of intellectual activity on the 
globe I see before me eminent ivpresentatives of that Avorld advance 
in knowledge Avhich we have met to celebrate. May we not confi- 
dently hope that the discussions of such an asseinl)lage will ])rove 
j)regnaiit of a future for science which shall outshine even its l)ril- 
liant past? 

Gentlemen and scholai's all, you do not visit our shores to find 
great collections in which centuries of humanity lunc given expres- 
sion on canvas and in marbli' to their hopes, fears, and aspirations. 
Nor do you e.\])ect institutions and buildings hoary with age. But 
as you feel the vigor latent in the fresh air of these exjiansive prai- 
ii<'s, which has collecte*! the ])roducts of human genius l)y wliicii we 
are here surrounded, and, I may add, brought us together; as you 
study the institutions Avhich we have founded for the benefit not only 



EVi^LUTION OK THK SCIKNTIFIC INV EsTI(4AT(»R. 'J.'i8 

of our own ix'oplc, liiil oi" liiiinaiiil y :il hirii-c: as you uiccl the men 
who. in (he short spi\ce of one century, hsnc ti-ansfoi'iued this vaUcy 
from a savage wihlerness into what it is to-(hiy. then may you lind 
i-onipensation for the want of a past like yours by seeinsr witli 
])rophetic eye a future worhl power of which this region sliall he the 
seat. If such is to he the outi-ome of the institutions wiiich we ai'e 
now huihling uj), then nuiy your present visit be a blessing both to 
3'our posterity and ours by making that power one for good to all 
mankind. Your deliberations will help to demonstrate to us and 
to the world at lai'gt* that the reign of law must supi)lant that of 
bi'ute force in the relations of the nations, just as it has supplanted 
it in the relations of individuals. You will help to show that the 
war which science is now waging against the sources of diseases, 
pain, and misery oifers an even nobler field for the exercise of hei-oic 
qualities than can that of battle. "We hope that when, after your 
all too Heeting sojourn in our midst, you return to your own shoi'es 
you will long feel the influence of the new air you have breathed 
in an infusion of increased vigor in i)nrsuing your varied labors. 
\m\ if a new impetus is thus given to the great intellectual move- 
ment of the past century, resulting not onh^ in promoting the unifica- 
tion of knowledge, but in widening its field through new combina- 
tions of efl'ort on the part of its votaries, the projectors, organizers, 
and supporters of this Congress of Arts and Science will be justified 
of their labors. 



METALS IX THE ATMOSPHERE." 



T'.y Ar.KREi) Drni:, 

Mriiihcr iif llic hislHiitc of I'm-iicc. I'rofcssnr of Mineral Chriuislrii at the 

Horlioinir. 



The onrlh's atniosi^hore contains an enormous qnantitv of dust, 
particles of which float in (he air for varying periods of time. This 
dust is everywhere, in the fields as well as in town, and -^le only 
reason we do not see it continually is because the particles do not 
i-eflect enouiih light to make an imi)ression on the retina. A ray of 
sunshine in a dark room reveals the [)resence of innumerable particles. 

Any jiolished surface exposed to the air wall soon be covered with 
an atmospheric sediment. All terrestrial substances, especially 
metals, may by mechanical action be reduced to a fine powder, light 
enough to l)e carried by the wind and held suspended in the air. The 
beating of the waves against the shore makes a powder, and the 
water in evai)orating leaves a little saline residue in the air. One 
can inuigine without nmch difficulty, but not without a certain disgust, 
ihe character of the dust particles foimd in city air; they form a 
means of contact between persons widely separated, and to this contact 
i< due nmch of the disease connnon among gi-eat aggregati(ms of 
people. Some of these innumerable corpuscles are bound to be germs 
of fermentations, of i)utrefacti()ns. and of various alterations of the 
blood in epideuiic diseases. 

Not only are all these solid substances visible with sufficient light, 
but they may without great difficulty be collected for purposes of 
>tudy. Pasteur was the first to devise a method of so doing by draw- 
ing the air through a tube containing a wad of nitrated cotton. AMwn 
a sufficient <|uantity of air has been run through the air filter the 
cotton, with its deposit of dust, is treated with ether, which dissolves 
it. leaving a residue of dust particles. The insoluble bits of dust ai'e 
collected by decantation. washed and di'ied. and theu examiueil under 
a microscoi)e. 

"Translated from Revue Seientifique, Paris, .5th series, Vol. II, December .^, 
l!tu4. Oiteulii.s,' lecture of course of mineral chemistry. Faculty of Sciences of 
Paris. Xovember J), 1904. 

235 



236 METALS IN THE ATMOSPHERE. 

Tn this residue may be distinguished corpuscles of organic matter, 
with wliicli we are not now concerned, and also mineral substances, 
which we will examine more particularly. Tiny as these bodies are. 
it is possible to measure them with a finely graduated micrometer, and 
it has been found that in diameter they ordinarily measure between 
one one-huiulredth and cme one-thousandth of a millimeter. 

It is also possible to obtain an approxinuite idea of the quantity of 
these dust particles by draw ing witli an air pump a tletermiued amount 
of air, bubble by l)ubl)Ie. through a tube containing a little pure water 
and then through a wad of nitrated cotton. The particles which have 
been retained by the water are secured by evaporation and united 
with those obtained by the dissolution in ether of the guncotton. 
By this method there have been found at Paris, during normal 
atmospheric conditions, from 6 to 8 mg. of dust to the cubic meter 
of air; after a day's rainfall, (i mg. ; after a drought of eight days, 
23 mg. Naturally the quantity in country air is nnich smaller. These 
figures represent the total weight of all solid particles, mineral and 
organic; if the latter be eliminated by calcination in a current of air 
the cinders representing mineral matter will be found to vary from 
06 to 75 per cent of the whole weight. In the residue ai-c fouiul 
cinders of salts soluble in water, of matter soluble in hydrochloric 
acid, and of substances Avhich can not be dissolved either in water or 
in acid. 

The particles floating \n the air are held there only l)y atmospheric 
agitation, the most minute being held longest in susi)ense. It may 
well be asked how bodies of this kind, so much heavier than the aii\ 
can be held in the atmosphere. Circulation will show that grains of 
jnineral as small as 0.01 mm. in diameter can nevertheless fall with 
considerable rapidity, 0.66 m. a second in the case of a gram of silica. 
It can easily be seen that a sphere of 2.5 density. 1 m. in diam- 
eter, Avould fall at a speed of 220 m. a second, if the fall were 
uniform and through air of ordinar}^ densit}'. The theoretical 
velocity of a corpuscle of <i dimensions would therefore equal ^| 220d. 
But in realit}^ this is greatly modified in bodies of minute dimensions 
\>y the agitation and continual movement of the air. which fact 
accounts for the suspension of the atmospheric particles. They do, 
however, fall gradualh^, and are continually forming on the earth's 
surface a sediment that can easily be collected by stretching on a 
frame a sheet of paper treated with gelatin and placing the con- 
trivance on an isolated roof 10 to 15 m. from the ground. Or a dust 
table, about a nu'ter square, lined with thin sheet tin and turning on 
an axis so as always to face the wind, can be used with equal success. 
The wind passing over its sui-i'ace constantly lets fall a portion of 
the dust it carries, and this deposit is afterwards collected with a fiat 
hair brush. The quantity of dusl vaiies with the V(>locity of tlie 



MKTALS IN TIIK ATMOSPHERE. 287 

wind iiii<! (he lnmii(li(y of (lie iidiiosplici-c. also with the season of i\\v 
year and llic stale of (he snn. 

Ill Paris hetwH'eii '2 and '.) \\\ix. of (hist ai'c eonectod on a s(inar(> 
meter of snrfaee in t\\ enty-t'onr honi's. 'ralvin<>; 4 nig. as the mean, 
this ooiTcsponds to a (hiily deposition on a snrface equal to that of 
the Champs de Mars (about 500,000 m-) of 2 kilos (4.4 pounds) 
of corpuscles. An estimate made by foiling air through water and 
evaporating shows a weiglit of (> to 2?> mg. to a cubic meter of air. 
'leaking in this case mg. as the mean and considering a sheet of air, 
say. ."> m. in thickness, there wouhl be almost 15 kilos (33 pounds) of 
(hist in an area e(|ual in extent to the Champs de Mars and a weight 
of several hnndrcMl kihis in air overhanging Paris. In the fields 
(he (juantity of dust collected is considerably smaller. It is hardly 
n^'cessary to say that this sediment does not remain long in the j)lace 
where it fal's, l)nt is (|iiickly carried otf again by the wind. However, 
the fignres given will indicate in a slight measure the importance and 
extent of this aerial transportation of solid matter. 

High buildings act as veritable dust traps. For instance, in a 
tower of Xotre Dame Cathedral which no one had entered for sev- 
eral years, the w^ind, passing through the narrow windows (iO m. from 
the ground, had deposited a bed at least a millimeter in thickness of 
tine grayish dust. Analysis showed that this w'as of the same com- 
position as the atmospheric dust, i. e.. about o2 per cent organic mat- 
ter and ()T per cent of cinders. Of this inorganic matter, !) per cent 
was solubU' in Avater, 24 per cent in hydrochloric acid, and the remain- 
ing 34 pel' cent consisted of a residue essentially silicate. Various 
analyses of dust accumulated in nninhal)ited jjortions of lofty struc- 
tures showed very similar results; the dimensions of the particles 
were invariably compassed between 0.01 and 0.001 mm., and the 
cinders always represented about 75 |)er cent of all the matter 
collected. 

Another method of investigating the solid bodies in tlu^ atmosphere 
is by making an analysis of meteoric w^ater. Rain is always charged 
with a sediment collected in the air, which may be extracted by 
filtering and eva})orati()n. Tt can be advantageously collected in a 
receptacle made of a series of porcelain jjlates, built u\) on three 
sides only and arranged on a frame like tiles on a roof. If this 
a[)paratus be of sufficient size considerable quantities of water will 
glide over the plaques and tlirongh a fnnnel into a large flask. Porce- 
lain is nnich l)etter than glass for this pnri)ose, as the latter is likely 
to be attacked by the carbonic acid and ammonia in standing rain 
water. 

The weight of the residue extracted from a liter of Avater varies 
considerably. At the observatory of St. Marie du Mont (Manche) 
the sediment obtained by evaporation of several liters of rain water 



238 METALS IN THE ATMOSPHERE. 

on June 1, 10, and 11, 1870, amounted to from 23 to 7-5 mg. per liter; 
at Paris it has run from 23 to 172, the maximum being 421 mg. This 
resi(hie is hhickish gray, excei)t that collected in the fields, which is 
entirely white, and it invariably contains the same relative propor- 
tions of mineral substances and organic matter. 

The size of snowflakes and the leisurely manner in Avhich these 
little spongy masses fall through the air makes them even better 
fitted than rain drops to seize in their passage all the dust particles 
and solid Imdies floating in the atmosphere. Moreover, solids are col- 
lected in the waters fused into the flake. Conse(|uently, when Mon- 
sieur Tissandier collected Avith all proper precaution the first snows 
that fell on the towers of Notre Dame in the winter of 1875, he found 
in each liter of the snow water a body of corpuscles varying in weight 
from 5() to 118 mg. A liter of melted snow collected under the same 
conditions in the country contains from 48 to 104 mg. Further- 
more, as one might supi)ose, the corpuscles are less numerous after a 
prolonged snowstorm, so much so that in Paris, after a heavy fall, 
only l(j to 24 mg were found. The residu(^ obtained by the evapora- 
tion of melted snow is ordinarily an impalpal)le grayish powder, con- 
taining, at Paris, about 57 per cent of cinders, and in the country 
about (')1 per cent. 

Ilail, because of its small size and its great density, does not collect 
the dust particles so easily. Nevertheless, it has been collected and 
examined in the same way. 

Iran. — The examination of the cinders in the dust collected in these 
vaiMovis ways enables us to recognize in our atmos})here the i)resence 
of a numl)er of nu^tals, the most important of which is iron. 

When a strong magnet was held near some of the atnu)spheric sedi- 
ment thus obtained, a portion of the c()rj)uscles adhered to it and were 
brushed off for microscopic or chemical examinations. It was then 
discovere<l that these bits are nuule up essentially of iron. The same 
results were obtained with sediments collected in several very differ- 
ent localities. The examinations even went so far as to estimate ap- 
proximately the (|uantity of iron contained in this niagnetic residue 
-by the intensity of the coloration of sulphocyanide of potassium in the 
dissolution of a known (juantity of dust. These ferruginous pai'licles 
Aven^ found to be either [)ure iron or tliat metal associated in certain 
])r()p()rtions with other t'lcMuents, such as nickel and phosphoi'us. M. 
N()rdenski<)l(l, at Stockholm in 1871, examining the surface of the 
greatest fall of snow within the memory of man, foun<l small quanti- 
ties of nu'tallic iron. l)Ut feai'ing this might have come from neigh- 
boi'ing roofs, he had his brother examine the snow in a desolate plain 
surrounded by the forests of Finland. The black powder seciu-ed 
there was of the sauu^ character as that of Stockholm. The particles 
of iron drawn out bv a magnet, when ti'iturated in an a^ate mortar, 



METALS IN THE ATMOSl»HKRK. 239 

were rccouiii/cd :is foniis of the iiicdil cxiictlv !Uiiil()<j;(ms (o (liOi^e 
IouihI ill llu' snow ;i( Slocklioliii and odicr parts of Sweden. I*'ur- 
Ihernioiv, there was collected on the (joatinii- i<'^' <''l Spitzhei-iicn a 
Uiay ])()W(ler containing little magnetic grains of iron coate<l with 
iron oxides. 

In examining some carhonaceous dust collected in ISTO on the snow 
and ice of the Inlandis glacier, a sea of ice in (Jreenland, at 80° north 
latitude, there was found ferruginous corpuscles in which was deter- 
mined the presence of nickel and cobalt. M. flung has vei-ihed these 
observations by his i-esearches on the snows of (Jeneva. He noted the 
pi'esence of iron in the storm of ISSIJ at (Icneva, on the Saleve, and on 
the Great St. Bernard Pass, at an altitude of S,1()0 feet. On the 
surface of the great snow fields covering this lofty region he dis- 
covered a very fine black'ish [)owder containing the characteristic 
globules and irregular fragments susceptible to the magnet. The 
evaj)oration of 15 liters of water from melting this snow gave M. 
Jung a residue formed A the same particles, which, treated with hy- 
drochloric acid, nuide a solution with a strong iron reaction. The 
insigniiicant weight of the matter collected made it impossible for 
him to establish clearly the presence of nickel or cobalt. M. Norden- 
skiold likewise observed some dust which fell at an altitude of 0,850 
feet, near San P\n-nando, Chili, in November, 1883. The (^ordilleras, 
which had been white with fresh snow, were covered in the space of 
half an hour with a sheet of red, composed principally of minute fer- 
ruginous i^articles, hard but slightly nuilleable. 

In this powder, which did not contain metallic iron, were found 
i-e(l(lish-l)rown globular grains soluble in hydrochloric acid and 
l)rownish- white grains insoluble in that acid and made u\) of a silicate- 
like feldspar. The hrst named was composed of oxide of iron, 74.()0; 
oxide of nickel with traces of col)alt, (i.Ol ; silica, 7.(')0; magnesia. J^.88; 
with small (piautities of phos])horic acid, aluminum, chalk, and traces 
of coi)[)er. The richness of the material in iron, nickel, magnesia, 
and i)hosphoric acid is remarkable. In contrast to this discoxei'v, 
M. Tissandier, ex])erimenting with rain waters collected at St. Marie 
(hi Mont (Manche), was able to obtain l-2i milligrams of cor- 
puscles susceptible to magnetic influence, wdiich. under the action of 
hvdrochloric acid, left only an insignificant residue of sillica, and 
found a solution in which annnonia precipitated an abundance of 
ii-on oxide. suli)hocyanide of potassium gave an intense clear color, 
and even the yellow pru.ssiate of potash a deposit of Prussian blue. 
The li(iu()r separated from the iron gave with auunouium sulphide a 
light-black precipitate of sulphide of nickel, forming with borax lead 
its characteristic pearl-violet color and turning to a brownish gray on 
ccoling. M. Jung also collected snow at different altitudes — at 1,225 
feet at Montreux on the border of Lake Geneva; 1^,300 feet at the 



240 METALS TN THE ATMOSPHERE. 

station des Avniils In'hnv i\w Moiitiei-s: at 8.100 feet at tlic li()si)ic«' of 
the (Ti-eat St. Bcnianl — and conipaivd the evaporation residue from 
this snow with Ihe dust collected in the towers of several cathedrals 
at Paris, Geneva. Lausaiuie. Varsovie. and at Samara on the Volga. 
He concluded that iron is as surely present in recent snows as in the 
dust of centuries accunudat(Ml in the clock towers of the old churches. 
In all cases the appearance of this metal indicated that it had heeu 
subjected to high tcm])ei-atui'es. 

These corpuscles, found always in greater (juantities in the snows of 
lower altitudes than from higher regions, do not always have the same 
characteristics, and students of them have classified them into several 
groups : 

1. Irregular amorphous grayish fragments, measuring from 0.1 to 
0.'2 mm. in diameter. 

2. Mammilated particles, black and oi)a(iue, much smaller, measur- 
ing only 0.01 to 0.05 mm. 

3. Fibrous particles of about the same size. 

4. Spherical corpuscles, })lack and opaque, diameter 0.01 to 0.02 
mm. 

5. Corpuscles apparently with a tiny vase-like neck. 

Moreover, these minute ferruginous corpuscles divide into two 
classes, some which have been deposited on the surface of the earth, 
others of an extra-terrestrial origin. The effects of showers of 
meteors are shown in an incontestable manner. Ehrenberg, Arago, 
Quetelet, Daubree. and Nordenskiold have brought forAvard a great 
numl)er of facts in this connection. Examining a fine dust which on 
the 25th of January. 1851), fell in the Indian Ocean, covering the 
decks of the good ship Joskih Bates, Ehrenberg showed that this 
powder, which to the naked eye appeared to be only little agglom- 
erate grains, was in reality formed by drops composed of metallic 
iron and iron oxide solidified and creased in a manner analogous to 
that of the Batavian tears. He considered this proof that a mass of 
meteoric iron is made incandescent by the friction of the air. Sedi- 
ments of this sort may come from the superficial fusion of meteorites, 
or, as Daubree has indicated in his memoir on the meteorite of 
Orgueil," they may be simply the result of disintegration. 

The dust is so friable that some bits were reduced to a powder by 
the pressure of the fingers. Its different parts are cemented togethei- 
with some alkaline salts so soluble in water that this liquid will 
woi-k a c()m[)lete disintegration into a fine powder that will pass 
through the hardest filters. Numerous cases of rains of fire which 
should apparently be attributed to the fall of incandescent debris of 
meteorites are familiar. The Baron de Reichenbach insisted strongly 

o Journal des Savants. 1870. 



MKTALS IN THK ATMOSPHKKK. 241 

oil :i ai'iiiiiilnr fofiuiitioii of luclcorilos, which ciiii exist as well as 
an iiupalpahh' |)o\\(h'r Moating in spaeo as in the forms of (•()n<j^h)in- 
ci-ates of st'\(M-al hun(h-('(l kih)s weight. Very small grains which, 
in passing throngh the atmosphere, were heated, nielted, and vola- 
tilized, appear to us in the form of shooting stars; it is suj)i)ose(l 
that matl(M-, not over a gram in weight, is sufficient to produce one 
of these meteors. Searching for the dust of shooting stars, de 
Keicheiibach found, in 1S()4, on the sunnnit of mountains of (lermany 
some ferruginous dust giving nickel and cohalt reactions. On the 
hill of Tvabisherg, at an altitude of 1, :')()() feet, under the shelter of 
the beech forests, untouched by ax or pick, he found similar traces 
of nickel and cobalt. Again, in a note of March 4, 1812, Von Baum- 
havei- i)nblished some observations on magnetic i)articles obtained 
from hailstones, citing i);irticidarly a hail storm he observed at 
Padua on the 2()th of August, 18:M. After this meteoric period 
of -Vugust and September Phipson managed to collect some black 
angular particles which were n(Mther carbonaceous nor coated with 
soot, and which, dissolved in hydrochloric acid, formed a pjerchlo- 
ride of iron. Nordenskiold encountered in the snow collected on 
ii'ebergs some metallic particles about a (juai-ter of a millimeter in 
circumference containing metallic iron coated with carbonized oxide 
and was at the same time able to detei'mine the presence of nickel 
and [)h()sphorus. 

After a heavy fall of snow at (leneva on October 5, 1883, M. Jung 
melted a (juantity collected on the Saleve, and found therein a 
deposit of powder exceptionally rich in iron globules. 

There fell in 188:'), about the annual period in November char- 
actei-ized by an abundance of shooting stars, a i-ain reniarkal)ly 
stri/ug in metallic dust of cosmic origin. These particularly abun- 
dant globules of iron might have bin-n in-oduced by the bi-eaking 
up of nnich larger meteorites into microscoi)ical shooting stars. 
From his Stockholm analysis of snow, in which, as in hail, he found 
bits of iron. XordenskiTild satisfied himself that hail is condensed 
around minute grains of cosmic matter floating in the air and fall- 
ing imi)ercej)tibly but continuously to the earth. He regards the 
existence of such matei-ial as proven i)V his observations and attrib- 
utes to its fall a considerable importance not only from the stand- 
point of the geologist and i)hysiograi)hist, but from that of the 
farmer: lliis last on account of its j)ho->phorus. which with nickel and 
cobalt is characteristic of meteoric iron. To cite a single example: An 
analysis of the meteoric iron found at Santa Catarina, Brazil, gave 
tlie following components: Iron. ('>:').(')'.) ])ei- cent; nickel, 33.97 per 
cent: cobalt. 1.18; with small (piantities of phosphorus, sulphur, 
carbon, and silica. 'I'his iron, remaikable for its exceptional (|uan- 
Si\i 1!)04 1<; 



242 METALS IN THE ATMOSPHERE. 

tity oi nickel, is not atlarked l)y llic action of air and water, and 
IS recognizable by its smooth <>"ray tint. 

XordenskitUd concluded from all these facts that a considerable 
number of aerolites constantly enter our atmosphere and are there 
broken up, thus giving an extraterrestrial origin to the magnetic 
corpuscles of the air. 

The little meteoric particles do not. however, always appear in the 
form of polished si)heres. nor in the characteristic globules. The 
iron floating in our atmosphere often appears in irregular l)lack frag- 
ments formed by a conjunction of extremeW minute granules gr()ui)e(l 
in compact masses sometimes with a rough and irregular surface. 

The study of hailstones has led to the same conclusions as that of 
snow. In a hailstorm at Stockholm, Xordenskiold found some black 
grains which when ground in an agate mortar produced bits of metal- 
lic iron. In another case the hailstones had a metallic nucleus in 
their center. Evennan demonstrated the presence of octahedrons of 
iron sulphate in some hail from the Prussian province of Orembourg, 
and Pictet recognized the presence of iron in the nucleus of hail- 
stones which fell in the Ma jo Province of Spain. Plail collected at 
Padua in 18.'14 contained magnetic grains of both iron and nickel, a 
circumstance which connects them with the aerolites, since a combi- 
nation of iron and nickel is a characteristic constituent of meteoric 
iron. 

The apparent planetary origin of these aerial magnetic particles 
may best be verified by a comparison with filings from the surface of 
actual aerolites. Experiment has shown that the powder thus ob- 
tained and the corpuscles collected in the atm()si)heri' are very similar. 
The fragments filed from the black crust adhering to the metal have 
the form of irregular little coated spheres. The cosmic particles 
obtained by "X()rdenskir)ld showed a striking resemblance to those 
extracted with a nuignet from the sediment of French rain. 

All these observations establish the fact that nuich of the ferru- 
ginous dust found in the atmosphere comes from meteorites. These 
metallic nuisses hurtling through sjjace are broken into iTagmenls. 
throwing oif incandescent })articles of metallic iron. The lightest of 
this debris is carried through the air by atmosphei'ic currents and 
("alls to the earth in the form of magnetic oxide of iron, more or less 
completely fused. The luminous train of shooting stars is due to 
combustion of these innumerable particles, resembling somewhat the 
sparks ihi-own oil' by an ii-on ribl)on burning in oxygen. Meteorites, 
as everyone has noticed, often have luminous trains, which are to be 
attributed to the incandescent debris detached from the mass. 

Thus it \ppears that I'errugiiions powder of extraterrestrial origin 
is falling constantly to the earth and that a part of the atmospheric 
dust comes from planetary space. As Daubree has l)rought out in 



METALS IN THK ATM* >SI'HKRK. 248 

liis ()l)S('r\iit ions on the mclcoi-itc of ()ri2ii(Ml. sonic of llicsc pai'liclcs 
come fi-oni the explosion of luctcorilcs or from their simple disiinioii 
when friiihh' and i)i'one to disintearation. Assnminf; that their mean 
diameter is a constant of O.OI mm., whicli, in fact, is a rather too lib- 
eral estimate, it woidd take -J. .'>()() of them to co\-er a s(|iiare millimeter 
and ^r)().()(H) to e(|nal in hnlk a cubic millimetei". Therefore it is easily 
ap})recialed that the deposit of iron on the earth's sui'face from this 
source even in a <"onsideral)le inter\al of time Avill not be great. 

lint, admittinii' that some of the iron dust is of extraterrostrinl 
ci'i^in. it is e(|u:dly true that a large ])art of it is swe])t from the 
eartli"-- surface by the wind or-caiM'ied up in the smoke of the foun- 
dries. In tlu' neighborhood of these works may be collected globules 
of magnetic ii'on oxide, which, rising as s})arks. took the globular 
form in cooling. It is easily shown that bits of iron at high temper- 
atures become si)herical. and that a mass of it combining at red heat 
with oxyg(Mi will divide into microscopic globular fragments. AVhen 
very tine iron tilings are made incandescent by i)assing through a 
hydrogen thuue. they burn brilliantly. Tissandier has discovered, 
by collecting the products of this combustion on a porcelain plate 
and examining them w itli a microscope, that they are in the fonn of 
splun-ical globules, vase-necked spheres, irregular surfaced, or fibrous 
fragments incompk^tely fused. Powder obtained by striking a ])iece 
of ii-on with a flint is made up of the same kind of globules. An iron 
wire burning in oxygen will form globules of magnetic oxide visible 
to the naked eye and at the same time others nnich smaller, which 
may be collected in water at the bottom of the flask. These are visi- 
bl(> only under great magnification, since their diameter rarely exceeds 
0.01 of a millimeter. 

The coml)ustion of coal in factories furnishes the air an abundance 
of iron oxide from the decomposition of ferruginous pyrites contained 
m the coal. I>ut all these particles obtained in the various w^ays men- 
tioned, whether fi'om the combustion of iron, coal, or other substances, 
are easily distinguishable from those of cosmic origin by the fact that 
thev never contain nickel in anv form. 

Tilled land and salt water, whence gusts of wind snatch up parti- 
cles the more minute of which measure scarcely 0.001 nun., often con- 
tains nuignetic dusts in comparative abundance. A magnet passed 
over their surface attracts tiny grains of magnetic iron oxide. This 
is entirely independent of the particles due to the continual destruc- 
tion of enormous (piantities of iron in manufacturing. The dust 
from j)ulverized magnetic iron ore and other ferruginous minerals, 
or the dust formed by oxidation in open air or from fresh or salt 
water, never occurs in the mannnilated. fibrous, or spherical forms. 
There are amorphic gi'ayish i)owders which do not resemble those 
of planetary origin and are very dill'erent from those produced .it 



244 METALS IN THE ATMOSPHERE. 

high temperatures. Iron is also found in semitranspareiit masses, 
green, yellow, or pink, mixed with opa(iue l)la('k pai'ticles. These 
M. Stanislas Meunier believes to have come from tlie debris of ser- 
pentine minerals — diorite, ainphibolite. serpentine — containing gran- 
nies of magnetite and always rich in oxidized iron. 

But this terrestrial source of ferruginous dusts can not explain the 
extraordinary abundance of microscopic particles of iron fonnd in 
])olar and alpine snows and in rains collected in open country. The 
presence of this nickel-bearing iron dust can be explained only as a 
powder obtained from the surface of meteorites in the ways we have 
shown. 

Metals otlicr than iron. — It follows, then, that iron is the metal 
most abundant in the air, and that in every case when its origin is 
extraterrestrial it is associated in variable proportions with nickel 
and cobalt ; but there are also other metals in the atmosphere. The 
analysis of their cinders, as already mentioned, shows that they are 
composed of some substances soluble in water, others soluble in hydro- 
chloric acid, and some insoluble. The almost white sediments col- 
lected in the fields contain about 40 per cent of salts soluble in water, 
80 per cent of such matter as calcium and magnesium carbonates, 
oxide of iron, and some insoluble substances like silica and clay, with 
small quantities of carbon. 

An examination of the dust deposited in the towers of Notre Dame 
gave ()7 per cent mineral matter. 9 per cent of which was soluble in 
water, 23 per cent soluble in hydrochloric acid (this decomposing 
into ().l per cent sesquioxide of iron. Ki per cent calcium carbonate, 
and 2.1 per cent magnesium carbonate, with traces of aluminum and 
phosphorus), and 31.3 per cent of matter, principally silica, not solu- 
ble in the acids. A grayish powder, fine and soft as meal, collected 
at Boulogne on October 9, 187(), contained in a dry state, besides 9.7 
per cent of organic substances, 55 per cent of silica, 1.8 per cent alumi- 
num (with traces of iron), 30.0 per cent calcium carbonate, and 2.5 
per cent magnesium carbonate. In the ash calcium, aluminum, mag- 
nesimn, and other metals were also found. 

Besides their two principal compoiienls- iron and nickel — meteor- 
ites and their debris contain small n ariable quantities of cobalt, man- 
iranese, chrome, tin, magnesium, and aluminum. Some minerals in 
particular are contained in these bodies: Schreibersite (phosphide of 
iron and nickel), magnetite and chrome iron, which is sometimes 
found in considerable <iuan(iti(>s in tlie foi'm of tiny grains, and 
minute crystals, together with olivine and otlier silicates. In short, 
meteorites may l)e arranged in a long series, at one extremity of which 
are those c()ini)osed chiefly of iron and nickel and at the other chiefly 
nonmctallic mineral substances, as olivine, enstatite, feldspar, amphi- 



METALS IX TlIK ATMOSI'HKKK. 245 

l)()lo, pyroxene, variously associate^l. All of (lie iiictcoric iiiiiicials 
can be foiiiul in the dnsts of (he atniospheiv. 

Meteors nniy fall in a direction opposite^ to that of the earth's move- 
ment, in which case their relative speed, beinj^ the sum of the two 
movements, will he ver}^ great. })erhaps TO km. a second. The resist- 
ance of the air to a flight of such s])eed produces enough heat to com- 
pletely burn and volatilize the matter. 11", on the contrary, the move- 
ment of the falling mass is in the same direction as that of the earth, 
its relative velocity — the difference between the two absolute speeds — 
is scarcely K) km. a second. In this case the heat developed is suffi- 
cient only to fuse the mass and vitrify its surface, then perhaps to 
break it in such a way as to form a meteorite or aerolite. It is not 
sutKcient to make a shooting star with its great train of fiery particles. 
Consequently, in coming into the earth's atmosphere, aerolites, whether 
big oi- little, encounter a friction that generates heat and incandes- 
cence, conse(|uently combustion, fusion, volatilization; condensation 
of the volatilized particles follows, and the dissemination of these con- 
densed particles. Thus it is easy to understand how meteorites bring 
into the atmosphere \'arious metals, free or in combination, and why 
metalliferous minerals, in cor])USc]es so minute that it is impossible 
to separate and identify them, may be found in the air entirely inde- 
])endent of the pulverized minerals raised from the earth's surface. 

Matter .soli'h/c in tratcf. — As already mentioned, the " cinders " of 
atmospheric sediments, when treated with water, always yield a cer- 
tain amount of soluble salts. These are chlorates, alkaline sulj^hates, 
or calcium sulphate, and nitrates, j^articularly that of annnonium. 

Aiiiinoniiiiii nitrate. — A drop of rain allowed to eva])()rate spon- 
taneously on a bit of glass leaves crystals of various shapes on its 
borders as the corpuscles are drawn toward the center. A star 
with six points is well marked when the crystallization has taken 
place slowly: more rarely the crystals assume the phnnule form. 
Annnonium nitrate frequently forms remarkable groups of crystals 
in the shape of crosses and swords, like those obtained by evaporating 
a drop of snow water. In no other mannei- can similar crystals be 
obtained, neither by varying the solution of the salts noi- the method 
of evaporation. It will form only in regular crystals ramifying 
uniforndy from a common stem or else in isolated prisms. Tissan- 
dier attributes this peculiar crystallization in meteoric water to some 
organic matter dissolved in the rain or snow. The evaporation of 
this water leaves in the bottom of the vessel a hard, fragile residue 
somewhat similar in appearance to coagulated albumen. Crystals 
of ammonium nitrate are easily recognized by their solubility in 
alcohol and by the fact that heat decomposes them without residue. 
Their presence in the air can not l)e verified, since, as everyone knows, 
nitric acid and annnonia unite readily to form ammonium nitrate. 



246 METALS IN THE ATMOSPHERE. 

Sulpliate of soda. — Sulphate of soda is frequently found in the 
matter soluble in Avater, and it crystallizes in four-sided prisms, like 
those formed by a supersaturated solution of that salt. Tt is only 
necessary to introduce into one of these solutions a few flakes of snow 
to determine immediately its crystallization. Monsieur Goernez has 
shown that deposits from the most widely varied locations have this 
same property. Its presence in tlie air, hoAvever, is determiiuMl with 
less certaint)^ than that of tlic more widely prevalent anmioniiim 
nitrate, and the atmospheric deposits show in every case the crystalli- 
zation of a supersaturated solution of that nitrate. Not only has 
Monsieur Goernez demonstrated that flakes of snow or solid atmos- 
pheric sediments will determine the crystallization of supersaturated 
solutions of soda sulphate, but that almost all bodies exposed to the 
air will do the same, showing that all these bodies contain truces of 
soda sulphate, somewhat difficult to detect by chemical processes, but 
made apparent by using supersaturated solutions of that salt as 
reagents. 

The prevalence of soda sulphate is everywhere demonstrated, and 
since that salt exists in water, mineral, river, or sea, it is naturally 
found in the soil. Having a tendency to ciTstallize in a lincly 
divided state on the surface of a porous body, the least wind will 
carry it off' and deposit it elsewhere. Simple evaporation of waters 
containing sulphate of soda may perhaps account for its presence 
in the atmos})here. The same is true of an}^ soluble body contained 
in water; the salt thus dissolved maj' be carried off' by evaporation 
and be distributed in small quantities in the sun-ounding"atmospliei-('. 
This has been proven in the case of perchloride of iron by evaporat- 
ing a solution thereof above the boiling point of the li({uid. 

Still other causes favor the presence of sulphate of soda in the air. 
Sulphurous gas, sulphuretted hydrogen i)roduced in the atmosphere, 
is there easily transformed into sul})huric acid auvl on coming into 
contact with salt from the ocean produces a sidphate of soda. Again, 
the carbonate of soda in the presence of calcium sul])hate, and numer- 
ous other sulphates as well, will give a soda sul])hat(' and some carbcm- 
ates. So it is established that sulphate of soda is formed in various 
ways and that in a humid j)or()us body it crystallizes so minutely 
that the least puff' of wind will scatter it cxcrywhere. Whatever 
may be the origin of sulphate of soda, which is in the eartli and 
water, it is a[)parent tlnit sodium in that foi'm is one of the conuuonest 
elements in the atmosphere. 

Seasalt. — Sea salt, which will crystallize in cubes on the evaporation 
of meteoric water, is also found in the air. Its ])resence was deter- 
mined in melted snow collected on the lofty tower of Xotre Dame in 
December, 1874. But residual dusts fi-om melted rain and snow have 
no action on the supersaturated solutions of acetate, borate. hy])osu]- 



METALS IN THK ATMOSI'II KKK. 247 

i)h:Uo. ()!• soda sulj)lia((>, which shows llial thoso subslanccs, allliou<^-h 
elHorscviit, arc oiil\ accidciilal in the aliuos[)hci-c. The sanu' is tnieof 
nitrate of lime and calcium chloride, which are readily <iiven up to 
the air, although their sources are not to he found in the atmosphere. 

Accldchtdl substances. — Besides the dusts which the normal air 
almost always contains, there are those more exceptional ones of 
volcanic oriirin. Such was a dust wdiich fell with the snow^ in Nor- 
way on .March -Ji)-:')!), ISTS; it was <>-|-ay an<l Hhrous. formed of grains 
of ().()"2 to ().().') nun. diameter. These were characteristic fragments of 
jiuniice aiul little grains of iron oxide in octahedron cuboids. There 
are numerous examples of the transportation for great distances of 
dusts, volcanic cinders, and ashes from great fires. For instance, 
the sand that fell on the western Canaries on the Tth of February, 
ISt;;), came in all pr()l)ai)ility from the Sahara, more than 200 miles. 
jNIore recently the cinders from the great Chicago fire arrived at the 
Azores some forty days aftei- the begiiniing of the catastrophe. The 
celebrated dry fog, which in 1TS8 covered all Furope for three months, 
first appeared at Copenhagen, where it continued one hundred and 
twenty-six days. Tt was caused by an eruption in T(;eland. In Se]}- 
teniber, lS4r), a phenomenon of the same soi-t but less formidable was 
observed on the Shetland and Orkney Islands. This came from an 
eruption of Ilecla on Sej)tember 2, and the cinders had traveled more 
than .■">()() miles. The atoms that fell during the cyclone of 187!) in the 
vicinity of Naples and Palermo Avere tinged with yellow. In that 
region also have been found black sj)heres and globules, susceptible to 
the magnet, the diameters of which at Palei'ino were between 0.004 
and 0.02S nun.: at Nai)les 0.007 to 0.020 nun., and from 0.011 to 0.040 
nun. at Teramo. These measurements agree well with those magnetic 
sphei'ules following on the coasts of Algeria and Tunis. 

A shower of cinders fell in the vicinity of Ftna from the 24lh to 
the 2i>th of May, ISSt;; examined in the observatory of Palermo, they 
showed the little laminated crystals characteristic of the ejections of 
Ktna. Similar ])henomenon ha\'e been ()l)sei"ved after the eruption 
of Krakalao. 

Conclusion. — Leaving aside the dusts which are teini)orarily 
brought into the atmosi)here by volcanic eru])ti()ns or other accidents, 
we see that the air ordinarily contains only a small mimber of metals — 
sodium, calcium, magnesimn.. aluminum, and more esj)ecia]l\' nickel, 
cobalt, and iron. These hav(> all a teri'estrial origin, e.\cej)t the last 
three, which come from out of planetary space. The proportion of 
solid matter in the air does not appear great enough to be of sig- 
nificance in the i)hysi()grai)hy of the earth, but almost a third of it 
is c()m[)osed of organic matter containing living germs. This part 
at least concerns the biologist and assumes some im})ortanc<' from its 
pathological conse<|uences. 



()liSP:RVATIONS OX VISION IN BRIGHTNESS AND IN 
OBSCITRTTY, WITH A HYPOTHESIS ON THE CAUSE 
OF COLOR-BLINDNESS." 



Bv (). LuMMr.K. 



A. Ttieory or J. v. Kries.* 

It has long been known that the retinal layer of rods and rones con- 
stitutes a structure sensitive to light by means of which energetic ini- 
l)ulses from without excite the optic nerve. AMiile investigations 
concerning acuity of vision appear to warrant the conclusion that 
the cones alone suffice for sight, yet the anatomical structure of the 
rods, closely resembling as it does that of the cones, indicates that 
they, too, play a part in seeing. Recent physiological researches on 
vision under feeble illumination and on the influence of the visual 
l)urple in the rods upon the perception of color have rendered it more 
antl more possible to distinguish between the parts played by thest^ 
two kinds of retinal organs.' 

As a basis for (he investigation we take the theory of Von Kries, 
which holds that the cones are a color-perceiving '" brightness ai)])a- 
ratus,"' the rods a color-i)lind "darkness aj)paratus.*" According to 
this theory the cones are ada|)ted for vision under high illumination, 
and their excitation by light waves produces in the brain the sensa- 
tion of color, while the rods with their visual purple are insensitive 
to color, become acti\(' only in dim light, and are able to nnich in- 
crease their sensitiveness in the dark. You Kries calls this peculiai*- 
ity of the rods '" adajition to obscurity"" | Dunkeladajjlation |. Be- 
fore the cones react to coloi- the rods convey to the brain the impres- 
sion of colorless light. 

o Translated by iHM'iiiission from VerlnuKllunjjen tier Deutsclu'ii Physikali- 
sehen Gesellscliaft. Brvmswick. ^'l : li. llMik 

& J. V. Kries. I'ber die Funktioii der NetzliaulstiilK-iicn. Z. S. f. I'sycli. u. 
Pbys. d. Slnncsrogane. 9. 81-12:',. I8!»4. 

c See A. Koiiig. I'bcr dcii ."Mciisclilicbcii Seb|»iU"])ur uiid s«>ine Hcdeutuni; itt^iiii 
yeheu. Sitzber. d. Berl. Akad. d. W'isseiiseb., p. 577, 18iJ4. 

249 



250 OBSERVATIONS ON VISION. 

A^> learn from the analoniy of the retina that in the fovea centralis 
and a portion of the iiiaciila lutea cones only are fonnd, rods being 
entirely wantin^i', while on the remaining portion of the retina there 
are both rods and cone«, arranged, indc'ed, in such a manner that 
toward the periphery the rods outumber the cones. We know, too, 
that the fovea centralis is the special spot used when the eyes are 
fixed upon an (jbject and focused for direct vision. In fixed or 
direct vision (foveal or central vision) the rods therefore take no 
part; in indirect (peripheral or oblicjue) vision the rods as well as 
the cones are employed. Thus in feeble illumination the two visual 
organs enter into sharp competition, and when the light becomes suf- 
ficiently dim the advantage lies with the color-blind rods, so that 
everj^thing then appears gray on a gray background — that is, in 
colorless light. 

B. Recent Anatomical Discoveries Relating to Vision. 

Recent investigations of the retina " show that very frequentl}' 
several rods are attached to a connnon nerve lil)er, while the cones — 
at least those of the fovea centralis — have each a special central con- 
nection. This enables us to partially understand why the stimula- 
tion of the rods is felt befoi'e that of the cones, especially as they are 
affected by all light waves wliile the cones difi'erentiate the waves 
according to length. It is estimated that we have in all 11:1,000,000 
rods and 7,000,000 cones (of which only 4,000 are in the fovea cen- 
tralis and 8,000 to 18,000 in the macula lutea), whereas connected to 
them all there are only 1,000.000 nerve fil)ers, Avhich, though inter- 
laced in a bundle like a cable, separately convey to the brain the 
excitations of light. 

Besides this there is, corresponding to the mosaic of the rods and 
cones of the retina, an equally regular mosaic of ganglion cells in the 
cortex of the occipital lol)e of tlu' brain, in the particular lobule 
known as the " cuneus,"' where jNliink has located the " Sehsphiire," 
or center for cortical vision. The ivtinal elements nuiy therefore be 
likened to the keys of a piano, by whose means, through the agency 
of the conducting nerve fibei-s, the strings in the visual center are set 
in vibration. Yet the [)ath fi'om the retinal elements to the cuneus 
is not a direct one, but is sevei-al times interrui)ted. For examj^le, in 
the anterior i)air of corpoi'a (|uadrigemina the incoming nerve fibers 
break up into nuuiy ramifications, while the path leading thence on- 
ward to the cortex l)egins there with similar ramifications. The 
finest branchlets are not, however, so connected as to allow direct 



« See R. Greeff, The microscopic anatomy of the visual nerve and the retina. 
From the Ilandhuch tier Angenlieillunulo of Graefe iuid Saniiseli 2, Autl. 1 {'>), 
Berlin, I'JUl. 



OUSKRVATIONS ON VISloX. 251 

condLicdon (coiitacl tlicorv). ^^'llil(' (lie t'liiiclic i of {\\c>v conliict 
stations has beiMi coiiipan'd to dial of an clccli'ical iiilcri-ii])t()r. I am 
iiicliiu'tl to think thai llu'iv is liciv inserted in tii'^ condiiftini:- path a 
potential eapacity vduch incivases the seH'-indnct ion due t<» the i)r<)pa- 
U'ation of the eU'ctro-niaiiiietic h^'ht waves, in re\('rse of the pi-ocess 
of Piipin for telephoninii' ovei' u'reat distanees hy means of cahh's. 

C. Kxi'rJM.MEXTs ox "\^isi()x IX r>i;i(iirrxKss and ()i',s( rini-i'. 

In order to ilhisti'ate the functions of the rods and cones and their 
competition, the foHowinii' e.xpei'imenfs are inti'o(hiceil : 

r. ni:\ KnoiwiKxr ok tiik spectkum uy (iUAnr.vr iikatix*; or ax ixcax- 

OESCRXT I. A:\rp. 

An incandescent hinip with hir^e hhunent is phu-inl in a suiiabh^ 
box, and means are provided for gradually varying the heating cui-- 
rent between the limits corresponding to dull-red glow and incandes- 
cence. The filament serves as the source of light and a large spec- 
trum is thrown on a white screen I)y means of a Rowland concave 
grating. After the eye has become accustomed to complete dark- 
ness the current is increased nntil the fii-st appearance of light is 
i-ecognized on the screen. This first recognizable light is colorfess, 
and makes the impression of '' rod-Avhite '" luminosity. As the cur- 
rent is increased the intensity of the colorless light waxes and ap- 
pears to stretch farther toward both ends of the si)ectrnm, and sensa- 
tions of color are gradually associated with those of light. After 
color begins to appear the interesting ob.servation is made that the 
position of apparent maxinunn intensity, lying first in the blue green, 
is displaced more and moic toward the yellow gi-een of the spectrum. 
This displacement may be confirmed by marking the brightest spot 
and then letting the lamp gradually wane in intensity till only gray- 
white luminosity remains. The spot where this is seen brightest is 
(hen marked, and the light is increased till both marks are seen. 

P^rom this experiment it follows that the rods fii-st perceive light, 
and that their greatest sensitiveness is for the blue-given region of 
spectrum, while the cones are most sensitive tt) yellow green. The 
experiment is founded on the researches of Draper " and II. F. Weber.'' 

II. i:xiM.i:i:\iKXT wnii clowixg it^atixial foil. 

In order to sliow the competition between -the rods and cones a 
large strip of platinum foil is gradual^ heated by an electric current 
from a dull reddish luminosity to a bright-red glow. Observed 

a Draper. Anier. .Jour. Sci. (!') 4. 1S47; I'liil. Mas. ('■') •"•'•. ^fay. 1.S47: Scieiit. 
Vieinoii's. p. :y.i, London, ISTS. 

6 11. F. WVher, Berl. Alvud. Ber.. ISST, p. 4;»1 ; Wied. Ann. :',2. 2.')(i. ISST. 



252 OBSERVATIONS ON VISION. 

(liivclly the foil iip])t'ars ahvays red and sharply defined; but ob- 
served obliquely it a])peai*s briii;hter, loses its color and takes on a 
Avhitish brilliance, at the same time losing shai-pness of contour. 
These apparent changes oH color and brightness can be noticed even 
at a bright-red glow. 

JIT. EXPERIINIENT WITH THKEE CLOWLAMPS HAVINf! I.ARliE FILA:\rE:NT8 

("gray (;T.<nv •' and "red geoav")." 

(a) The competition l)et\veen the two organs of sight is yet more 
obvious when several parallel glowlamps with large filaments are 
set up at a distance of 1 to li m. apart and provided with means for 
gi'adually decreasing the electric current. As long as the Ijrightness 
of the lamps is so feel>le that the rods assist in observing them, only 
the one directly observed aj^pears red, while the others seem to have 
a colorless, magical, rod-white luminosity. However quickly the eye 
passes from one lamp to another, only that directly observed at the 
instant is red — the others at once change to white. 

(h) In order to show that the "gray glow"' is perceived before 
the " red glow " apj^ears, the current is entirely cut off. Then the 
lamps fade slowly (owing to their thick filaments) and the directly 
observed lamp, , which is red, disappears, while the others, seen 
obliquely, still present a white luminosity. By turning the current 
off and on this observation may be repeated as many times as one 
pleases, and the thicker the filaments the more successful the experi- 
ment. For a lecture experiment the distance of the lamps would 
naturally be greater. 

1\. experiment A\ nil a very small ULUE FLAME. 

Observe directly and then ol)lique]y a blue gas flame from an easily 
regulated burner with a small orifice. As observed directly the flame 
appears sharply defined and of a blue color, but with indirect vision 
its appearance changes to a disk of some size having the appearance 
of moonlight and surrounded by a feebly luminous zone. 

v. COLORLESS APPEARANCE OI' THE SI'ECTRl .M AVIIEX THE ILLUMINATION 

JS KEE15LE. 

A i)ure spectrum of an arc light is pro(hiced, and its intensity 
gradually diminished by means of two Nicol j)risnis. The red and 
blue colors are the first to disappear, then the yellow, and finally 
there remains in place of the bright-colored s[)ectrum a colorless, dull 
spectrum, which when vieA\'ed <)bli(|u('ly takes on a rod-white hnni- 
nosity over its whole length. 

«0. Luiiinier, Verli. d. I). Pbys. Ges. It;, 121-127. 18!»7: Wied. Ann. 02, 14-20, 
J 897. 



OHSKKVATKiNS OX VISION. 258 

(Tlic wi'ilcr (.'oniKH'ts wilh lliis phciioiiicnon, which was hrsl, oh- 
M'r\('<l hy \'()n Bozohl and later iiioi'c exactly im^st i<i,at(Hl hv IIcrin|Li' 
and i lillchrand. the oriii-iii of the tlu'orics of Iviiiiio- and Yow Kric^s.) 

\l. TIIK riKKlXJK I'lIKNOMENOX WITH I,AK(;F, AXI) S.MAI, L FIKLDS. 

{(() L(n'(/e felds. — A projection ai)i)aratns with two lai'<2;e Nicol 
j)risnis is suitahle for the denionsti'ation of tlu> Pnrkinje plienomenon. 
For this purpose the slit is rephiced hy a round opening, and an 
enlarged image is thrown upon the Aarious coh)red fields to be coin- 
]»are(h These are preferably of colored paper, from which foui' 
arcs are combined to form a hirge field. Red and blue-green are 
suitabli' colors and are to Ix' so chosen that with the strongest avail- 
able lighting the red is perceived to be more bi-ight than the blue- 
green. In case suitable papers are not available, the same effect can 
be reached by interposing in the beam suitably colored glasses or 
stained gelatin films. If the brightness of the light is gradually 
diminished, the blue-green becomes at length l)righter than the red, 
and finally the red disappears, while the blue-green changes to the 
colorless •' rod-white." 

(I>) Ohsei-ration of sukiU p'cJds. — The large field just described 
is covered with black i)a])er or velvet, except in two small spots, where 
the colored paper may be seen. Now, however nuich the intensity 
of the light is diminished, the red always appears brighter than the 
l>lue-green, provided both spots are observed directly so that their 
images fall on the fovea centralis or macula lutea, and not toward the 
])eriphery of the retina where both i-ods and cones are present. 

(f) AlfertKife ohserratioii of flic large <ind small fields. — In order 
to uuike the competition of the rods and cones still more striking, the 
two fields may be observed alternately. Having reduced the inten- 
sity of the light on the small field, all the while recognizing the red 
to b(> ])riglitei- than the blue-green, the screen is remo\-ed and the eye 
sees, again, suddenly, the large field. .The blue-green [)arts now 
iippear colorless. l)ut of a magical brightness, while the red j)arts 
Ix'come almost black. 

The Purkinje i)henomenon may be ()bsei-\-ed in ordinary conditions, 
as when a |)icture gallei'v is visited on a \i'1t cloiuly day or in the 
twilight, for then all the red tints ap])ear dai'k and obscui'e, and all 
the blue ones coloi'U'ss and whitish." 

Helmholtz also mentions that of all objects the blue sky appeared to 
retain color longest at twilight, and I believe I am right in assuming 
that the moonlit landsca[)e is '' rod-white," for at least the silver bis- 
ter of nu)<)idight is vei-y similar to the ghostly gray-white of the rods. 

•"IT. V. Ilelniholt/-: llandbucb der Physiol. Optik. 2 ed. p. 429. (Leopold 
Voss, Loiiizig. 1896.) 



254 OBSERVATIONS ON VISION. 

VII. OCILAI} riIA> TOMS. 

The hallucinntioiis of rod vision are best illustrated when a small 
surface is observed Avhose retinal iinag-e does not exceed the area of 
most distinct vision and whose gradual increase of brightness can be 
noted, beginning with darkness. I employ the following api)aratus: 
An electrical glow lamp of (;r)-volt type is placed in a box with a sin- 
gle aperture IH mm. in diameter, and connected to a 110-A'olt circuit 
whose current may be gradually varied from zero upward. Behind 
the opening is placed a dark shutter, and in front of this a movable 
brass diaphragni with different holes of 3, 6, and 9 nnn. diameters. 
An enlarged, distinct image of the sharply bounded aperture is then 
cast on a white screen, and there are placed in the jjath of the beam 
several sheets of gelatin stained blue-green, so that the rods are more 
strongly imi^ressed than the cones. 

So long as the brightness is so feeble that the cones are excluded, 
the light spot, seen oblicpiely, appears colorless and lacking sharp 
outlines; but it quite disappears when gazed at fixedly. This dis- 
appearance occurs even Avhen the light spot is so large that its image 
covei-s the Avhole of the macula lutea, as shown by the introduction 
of the larger diaphragm. To be sure, the disappearance is more 
difficult to produce, because the slightest movement of the eyes then 
renders the spot visil)le, and the Avandering eye involuntarily takes the 
position where it receives the most light. Hence it hapjoens that the 
spot floats in and out of the vision, for as soon as we attempt to fix 
distinctly what we saw indirectly the "ghost" disappears." But 
when the liglit is made so bright that the cones are im})ressed this 
condition of things ceases, and Ave see the light spot distinctly and at 
rest Avith its shai-p outlines and its blue-green color. The experiment 
is les« successful Avhen performed Avith red stained gelatin, but even 
in this case the spot ma}' be caused to disapi)ear by proper reduction 
of the illumination, as in P]x])eriment III. where the dark-red gloAv- 
ing lamp filament becomes invisible by direct vision, Avhile yielding 
the gray-glow ajjpearance with oblicjue vision. 

1). Kxi'EiiiMKN rs wrni I)i{i(;irr Spkc ri;.\. 

I I lyiHitlicsis MS to lilt' c.-uisc (if (•()l(H--l)liiHlin'ss. I 

Discrimination between the rods and cones and acipiaintance Avitli 
their different fmictions has not yet furnished the answer to th(^ ([ues- 
lion why the cones differentiate colors, or Avliat means they emplov. 
and why the i-ods grow more sensitive in obscurity. It is true that 
the cones are destitute of the visual purple, so that perhaps this plays 
a part in " adaptation to obscurity." 

"Sec (). F.iiiMiiicr. licit r.ii,' ymv Kliiruii.i,' del- ni'ucstcii \(M-sii(1i(' voii R. Blondlot 
iiber die u-rays. Vcrh. dt-r Deutscbon Phys. (ioscllsclmft, .1. 418, inO.S. 



OBSKRVATIONS ON VISION. li^f) 

r»ul what aiiiitoniical |>cciiliarily have the roiics which (Mial»h^> 
them to (lisliiiiiuish red from hhic^ Foi- it scciiis clear that this dis- 
tinction is made in the retina and not in the hrain. 

It is a fact that in tlie eyes of hirds. which, moi-eo\-ei-, liave many 
more cones than rods over tlie whole extent of the retina, all the 
cones lunc coloi--(lill'erentiatin<2: oi'<>ans: oil cells colored red. yellow, 
hhie. and <j;i'een. I'lit these oil cells ai'e found oidy in the cones of 
hirds and certain amphibious animals and reptiles, not at all in man.- 
And \et our cones have a special structui'c diU'erent from the I'ods, 
for the outer meuihers show a series of plane parallel plates whose 
distance apart Max Schultze estimates to be in conformity with 
tlu' wave len«^ths of lioht. May not these plates serve to diii'ei-en- 
tiate the li<2:ht as in Lij^pmanV method of color photo<rraphy ? 
Apiinst this view, which 1 find was jjropounded a lonij time ago 
by "\V. Zenker" and Max Schultze, and then again apparently for- 
eotteii. ther(> is the objection that the rods also in '* hardening " show' 
a distinct platelike separation. But l)ef()re using the fact to o])pose 
the hypothesis above mentioned, it must be proved that the rods sliow- 
ing this platelike separation are not from the edge of the macula 
lutea. I am inclined to believe that the rods which border ui)on 
the macula lutea tend to approach a more conelike type than the 
others. 

However this may be, the phenomenon of total color blindness or 
lack of all color perce])tion can scarcely be satisfactorily explained 
l)v the Young-llehnholtz or the Ilering theories, wdiich assume that 
the visual substances are either fused into one or partly absent. 
Admitting, however, that the distinction of colors Ixdongs to the cones 
and colorless vision to the rods, it is easy on the other hand to exi)lain 
total color-blindness l)y the hypothesis that in such cases the cones are 
absent. This explanation was advanced by IT. K(»nig and supported 
by the fact that all animals which live in darkness (the bat, mole, 
hedgehog, nocturnal monkey, and others) have no cones. These ani- 
mals hav<' been designated by ^Slax Schultze as " rod seers." The in- 
vestigations of (ireeff show that in the fovea centralis of the rat also 
i-ods alone are present and are extremely line (thickness 0.75 //), 
while tlie existence of a few cones is only known by the occurrence 
of cone granules in the outer gianular layer. 

'• Rod seers '' then view everything, even in broad daylight, as color- 
less, and, in case their fovea centralis has no rods, are, at this spot, 
totally blind, like ordinary persons in darkness. Totally color-blind 
jiersons see the sun-lighted landscape as a rod landscape, as we see it 
by faint moonlight. Total color-blindness is therefore a very marked 
defect. Some persons ar(>. howevei'. partially color-blind. Iiy which is 

." W. Zenlcer, Lehrbuch der Pljotochroiuie, Braunschweig, Fr. Viovvog u. Solin. 
I'JOO, 



25f) OBSERVATIONS ON" VISION. 

ffciieniUv iiicaiit that they confute cohn-s rather than aro actually 
l)lind to any. and indeed they confuse pigments only, while pure 
spectral colors are distinouish(>d by them almost as well as by persons 
of normal vision. 

Similai- as the two systems may be in many respects, there are yet 
several noteworthy differences, which appear best in the observation 
of a pure, brilliantly colored, and strongly lighted spectrum. 

(1) A^liile normal eyes distinguish red, yellow, green, blue, and 
violet, to the color-blind the l)lue-green zone appears Avithout color, 
merely having a gray white luminosity (''neutral" zone of the 
coloi'-blind). 

(2) To color-l)lind persons the red end of the spectrum is shortened 
as compared with the l)lue. 

(3) To color-blind })ersons a mixture of red and blue produces 
white, whereas such a mixture is rose-red to normal eyes. 

The yellow and blue ])arts of the spectrum appeal- as vividly to 
color-blind persons as to those of normal vision, and so also do yellow 
and blue ]Mgments. P'rom this it follows that the color vision of the 
color-blind is effected by the cones like the color vision of normal 
eyes. In view of the fact that we do not know what are the color 
differentiating organs of the c<mes it is doubly difficult to assign 
causes for these various differences in color vision. Do these differ- 
ences perhaps depend on a different structure of the cones? 

Struck by the coincidence of the " neutral " zone with the color of 
maximum sensitiveness for rod vision, the thought forced itself to 
my attention that the peculiai'ities of color-blindness might be ex- 
plained by supposing that the retina of a color-blind person in the 
region of direct vision where normal eyes have only cones contains 
rods as well. 

Without ascertaining whether this idea is new or old, I present the 
following exi)eriment to ]n"ov(^ that the peculiarities of color-blindness 
are found in i)eri])heral vision with noi-mal eyes when care is taken to 
perceive them : 

Probably few ])ers()ns have ever carefully examined a bi'ight spec- 
trum under obli(|ue vision. Fpon thus observing a long stretch of the 
sjH'ctrum thei-e is seen, in fad, as I had expected, a colorless brilliant 
white "• neutral " zone lying in the place of the blue-green. Futher- 
more, the red end of the spectrum is shortened, and only reddish yel- 
low and blue a[)pear as vivid colors. 

Hut a further consequence follows from the hypothesis that color- 
l)liiid peisons have both rods and cones all over the retina, includ- 
ing the fovea centralis. For if this is the reason why the color-blind 
see a mixture of red and blue as white, normal eyes ought to receive 
the same impression with oblicpie vision. Such is indeed the case 



OHSKIiVATlONS ON VISION. 257 

wUon (ho i-(m1 ;ui(1 WIiic ends of (he spcctnmi ai'c su|)('ri)()S('(l :nul 
obliciuoly obserNcd. 

This is otherwise shown by reconibiiiing a prismatic spectrum to 
produce white, but witli the interposition of a screen which cuts off 
the yeUow, lirecn, and bhie-gjreen colors. Then tlie mixed Held 
appears of a brilliant rose-red by direct vision, but a brilliant white 
when obliquely observed. For a check the red or blue may alter- 
nately be cut off, and then by oblique vision the apparently white field 
is correctly seen in the renuiinino^ active color. There is a striking 
appearance peculiar to the obliquely observed uiixed field which 
gives one the impression that it is self-luminous or fluorescent." 

It is hard to say why it is that color-confusing persons see red 
and green pigment fields as gray- white and confuse them, while per- 
sons of normal vision sharply distinguish between them. A possible 
explanation might be that in bright light the fovea centralis is the 
principal agent of vision overcoming the peripheral retinal field, 
and that we see extensive bright fields not at one time but by sweep- 
ing over them with the fovea. Thus Ave cease to distinguish the 
colored papers confused by the " color-blind " only when we really 
observe them obliquely, so that their colors are lost in gray-white, 
even in daylight. In the condition of adaptation to obscurity, on 
the contrary, the fovea centralis is excelled by the peripheral region 
of the retina rich in rods, so that Ave no longer perceive the impres- 
sions of the fovea. (Compare Purkinje phenomenon.) 

A greater difficulty seems to me to be that according to this hy- 
pothesis of color-blindness color-blind persons ought to perceive 
with direct vision also the Purkinje phenomenon and the displace- 
uient of the '' neutral zone " which follows diminution of bright- 
ness. As Professor Nagel has been good enough to inform me, how- 
ever, the Purkinje phenomenon absolutely ceases with him, at least 
at the fovea centralis.'^ Since, however, his fovea centralis is color- 
blind, I find myself compelled to add a second hypothesis, as follows: 

The rods which occur in the fovea centralis and part of those in 
the macula lutea of color-blind persons must have lost their readiness 
of adaptation, and therefore are equipped with a higher sensitiveness 
for vision in strong lights than those of normal persons. 

1 Tbeso folor-iiiixing experiments were successfully performed by Professor 
I'ringshelni. Doctor Gehrcke, and myself in a room which was lighted by two 
incandescent lanps, although, to be sure, feebly. 

6 If this is so with Professor Brodhun (who confuses red and green) also, 
then reasoning backward it follows that his fundamental experiment on the 
displacement of the neutral zone (a distinct proof of the competition of rods 
and cones) owing to the smallness of the field of the Ilelmholtz color-mixing 
apparatus, must have been performed unconsciously with extra foveal — that is, 
■peripheral, retinal vision. 
SM 11)04 17 



258 OBSERVATIONS ON VISION. 

We will distin<i:uish these rods as ''eoiitnxl "' and ''bright-vision " 
rods to distinguish them from '' peripheral " or " obscure-vision '' 
rods. In order to prove their existence there is necessity for physi- 
ological experiments of a kind suited to distinguish the differences 
that occur between normal and color-blind persons in direct central 
vision of fields of different size. The Purkinje phenomenon and the 
displacement of the " neutral " zone with diminishing light intensity 
must be more accurately studied with different individuals in order 
to recognize how far the rods extend toward the fovea centralis in 
normal eves, and Avhere the " central " rods of the color-blind begin 
to be capable of adaptation and become '' peripheral." 

Perhaps this hypothesis might also be tested by anatomical re- 
searches on the retinas of color-blind persons, although it would be 
difficult to distinguish the '' central " rods from the cones, for it 
appears that the cones approach more nearly to the rods in structure 
the nearer they lie to the center. Besides this the anatomist must be 
informed whether he is examining normal or color-blind eyes. 

AVhen I found that this (possibly not original) hypothesis had 
not as yet been carefully tested, I thought it worth publishing even 
if hereafter found to be false, since the careful experiments which 
its testing demands can not l^ut throw light on this interesting 
subject. There appears to be no logical or zoological argument 
opposed to it, for since there are aninuils with more cones than 
rods (birds) and animals and men with rods only (animals living 
in darkness and the totally color-blind), and since persons of nor- 
mal vision lie between these classes and possess more rods than 
cones and one spot entirely rod-free, why may there not be indi- 
viduals having rods in this small spot, too? And if this is the 
case, then it is not strange that these central rods by continued 
usurpation of the ]3lace of the cones should have become bright- 
vision organs, and have lost their adaptive quality. The fact of 
the great number of color-l)lind persons (3 per cent of males and 
one-fourth of 1 per cent of females) supports the hypothesis, for 
it readily explains the great variations between individuals. For, 
according to the number of " central " rods, the degree of their 
sensibility, the extent of the area over which they have lost adapta- 
bility, and the degree to which they have supplanted the cones, by 
such gradations may normal color perception degenerate into the 
various degrees of color confusion, or even into total color-blindness. 



Smithsonian Report, 1 904.— Klingelfuss. 



Plate 




fsfsssa^&y^f '"*■'' >"irf £?¥'■■ 



Fig. 1 .—Photograph of Lightning Flash. 




Fig. 2.— Photograph of Induction Coil Spark. 



A LIGHTNING SPIRAL OBSERVED NEAR BASEL." 



By Fh. Klincei.I'Uss. 



On the night of July 15, 1!)()2, hctweeu 11 and 12 o'clock, I 
obtained, in a fixed camera, a photograph of a very extraordinary 
lightning phenomenon. The Hash occui-red in an east-southeast di- 
recti(m. as viewed from the center of the city of Basel, and extended 
nearly horizontally from north toward south, or, as shown in figure 
1. i)late 1, from left toward right. Not all the details seen in the 
photograph could be recognized l)y the eye, nor could I determine 
the distance fi-om my standpoint to the scene of the discharge, 
because of the simultaneous sound of tliunder from another flash. 
As the lens of the camera was uncovered for this exposure only a 
few seconds, it is probable that all that is shown in the illustration 
represents l)ut one discharge. 

Fx'sides a j)encil of ])arallel rays (caused probably by partial dis- 
charges torn ai)art by wind currents), such as is familiar from the 
photograph of II. Kayser,'' the plate which is here shown contains 
two vei-y distinct whirls of bright lines and a third fainter one. In 
addition there may be recognized a great numl)er of bright lines 
running parallel to the axis of these spirals. Within the pitch of 
a single line of the spiral 50 or GO parallel lines may be counted. 

Inasmuch as a similar screw-shaped formation may be observed 
under certain conditions in the discharge of an induction coil, it 
seems highly probable that we have here to do with a spiral light- 
ning discharge. Thus when a very great quantity of electricity is 
discharged with the bluest possible sparks and without strong aureole 
or arc there are produced magnificent spirals.'' Figure 2, plate i, 
shows an instantaneous exposure of about 0.05 second duration on 
such a discharge from an induction coil giving sparks 50 cm. long. 
The greater the quantity of electricity in the discharge the .more 

"Translated by permission from Annalon der Physilc, Leip/Jg, No. 1. 190.3. 

h.H. Kayser, Wled. Ann. 2;"), p. i;n, 18.sr>. 

(• K. Rulnuer. Elelvtrotechn. Zeitsclir. 21. p. 1,"L', 1<M)0. 

^5y 



260 A LIGHTNING SPIRAL OBSERVED NEAR BASEL. 

regulai- arc the spirals, as is to be expected. Tn order to fulfill 
the coiiditioiis abovx' mentioned, a very high l're((uency is of course 
recpiired, such as may be obtained with the electrolytic interrupter. 
Such spirals depend on the direction of the discharge in reference 
to the magnetic field of the induction coil or of the earth. Stereo- 
scopic instantaneous exposures of less than 0.001 second show the 
image of an irregularly wound line turning sometimes left-handed 
and sometimes right-handed. With ai"c discharges no spirals are 
produced, probably because at the high temperatures accompany- 
ing the arc the magnetic lines of force are no longer present. 

These conditions for the production of electric screw discharges 
seem to have been present in marked degree with the lightning dis- 
charge photographed. The discharge shows an extraordinary num- 
ber of lines, partly in the spirals and partly running horizontally 
in the general path. Each line corresponds to a partial discharge, 
and the regularity of spacing of the lines in the spirals indicates a 
very large quantity of electricity discharged and a very high fre- 
quency. Undoubtedly the quantity discharged far exceeds any- 
thing of the kind we can obtain from an induction coil. This 
explains the great regularity of the lightning spirals as compared 
with those obtained from the induction coil. In the observed case, 
too, the earth's magnetic field was favorably situated, since the 
magnetic field produced by the spiral discharge coincided with it. 

In order to determine if the lightning spiral produced any unusual 
magnetic field whose presence would be indicated by marked deflec- 
tions of the magnetic needle," I addressed connnunications to the 
Swiss meteorological Zentralanstalt at Zurich, and to the kgl. meteor- 
ologische Observatoriuni at Potsdam. The Swiss meteorological bu- 
reau Avas, unfortunately, unable to furnish the desired information, 
but T received from the director of the observatory at Potsdam the 
following negative reply: 

So fiU" as fonoerns onr oijsorvatory, it may be said in answer to your inquiry 
that on The day in ciuestion neitluT the terrestrial iiiafjuotic instruments nor the 
apparatus for ohservin;^ atuiosplieric electricity (the latter records, within mod- 
erate linuts, not only the potential difference hut also the discharsinj.': ca])acity 
ol)served) showed any extraoi-dinary behavior. 

It is interesting to note that the photograph indicates that the par- 
tial discharges of this flash could not have been oscillating, but must 
have pulsed successively in the same direction in oi-der to produce the 
direction of rotation here shown. 



« See Kr. Birkeland, Expedition NorwciiifMuie de 1899-1900 pour letude des 
jTUroi-es boreales, p. 1-3, 1901. Jacob Dybwad, Cristiania. 



VARIATIONS OF SPP:CIFIC GRAVITY." 



By (}. W. A. Kahlbaum. 



In coiinootion Avith researclies on the distillation of metals, and 
while seeking- to fix the specific gravity of the pure metals emphwed, 
I was led to make a thorough study of the subject of specific gravity 
measurements.* The grounds which led me to bestow so much atten- 
tion on this subject apparently so threadl)are are these: First, the 
exact measurement of specific gravity, particularly for solid bodies, 
is an extremely difficult piece of work, which can be successfully 
accomplished only by attending to certain not unimportant pre- 
cautionary measures; and, second, the specific gravity to be deter- 
mined is to be regarded rather as the expression of particular prop- 
erties of the individual s])ecimGn examined than as a general property 
of all yolids of the same kind. 

This latter statement may be illustrated by the following determi- 
nations made on a -small block of the purest Norwegian converter 
copper refinings, for which chemical analysis yielded 09.92 per cent 
copper, 0.02 per cent siher, 0.04 per cent nickel, and 0.02 per cent iron. 
Three small bars, G mm. in diameter and 45 mm. in length, were pre- 
pared, containing about 1.25 cm'' each, and their specific gravity was 
determined within a mean error of O.OOIG, as follows: I, 8.4412: II, 
8.092(); 111,8.1297. 

Thus it appears that three cylinders, turned from a single snuill 
block of copper, showed a variation of specific gravity through a 
range of 0.2()29, or over 3^ per cent of the whole specific gravity. 
Inasmuch as this was cast copper it was easy to explain the cause of 
the variation, for probably there were faults or blowholes in the 
casting. But the interesting and natural ([uestion arose. Where and 
when do such faults cease entirely? 

With another cylinder of the same copper, weighing 79 grams, I 
made careful measurements by the volumetric method, depending 

o Translated, by permission, from Annalan der Physik. Leipzig, No. 8, 1904. 
b(i. W. A. K.ililliauin, Zoitscli. f. anorjr. Chem. 20. j.p. 197-213, 1902. 

26] 



2()2 VARIATIONS OF SPECIFIC ORAVITY. 

on 140 separate determinations with the spheronieter, and obtained 
the vahie of the specific gravity as 8.;^7T4, which is a little less than 
that found for any of the smaller samples. It might be supposed 
ihat the dift'erence of 0.32 between this value and that obtained for 
Sample II would be nearly the maximum obtainable. But Marchand 
and Scheerer« by very accuilite determinations found for their high- 
est value of the density of rolled and hanmiered copper plate 8.952, or 
0.259 higher than my highest observed value, and, compared with 
my lowest value, showing a difference of 6.2 per cent. 

It seems simple enough in the case of metals to do aAvay with these 
differences of si^ecific gravity by employing high pressures sufficient 
to close the faults produced in casting. But I have found in experi- 
ments with lead, cadmium, copper, tin, antimony, gold, and silver 
that up to a pressure of 10,000 atmospheres all these metals except 
cadmium shoAv increased density with increased pressure, as was to 
be expected, but on increasing the pressure to 20,000 atmosj^heres 
these metals without exception diminished in density with the in- 
creased pressure. It is not implied that the density rises in all cases 
except that of cadmium up to 10,000 atmospheres pressure and then 
diminishes, but that if any decrease occurred below 10,000 atmos- 
pheres the density did not fall beloAV the original value.^' It would 
doubtless be of great theoretical interest to determine the exact pres- 
sure of maxiiuum specific gravity, but working as hitherto with 
samples Avould consume much time, and it seemed to me that a shorter 
method based on electrical conductivity measurements would prove 
feasible. For if the electrical conductivity is measured continuously 
while the pressure is steadily augmented there nuist be a change in 
the march of the conductivity measurements when the pressure of 
maxinuun specific gravity is reached. Without going into a descrip- 
tion of the experiments, it will suffice to say that I was led in this 
way to the examination of the specific gravity of wires. An altera- 
tion of the density implies a change in the molecular structure of the 
material. Such a change in the structure of wires is indicated by 
the fact that cold-drawn wires are brittle and liable to faults, and 
that in order to continue wire drawing a reheating is re(|uired.'' 

In wire drawing the metal unist be di-awn oi-, as in tlie case of 
sodium joresses, squeezed thr-ough a hole with sharply defined edges. 
In this process thei-e is formed at the back of the drawplate a ring of 
material, which is held l)ack while the inner molecules by virtue of 
their cohesion are pressed or draAvn through the opening. Metals 



" O. i:. Knlinaiin, Jourii. f. prakt. Clieni. 27. p. 20(), 1S42. 

''(;. W. A. Kalilbauni. VerliaiuU. d. Natnrf. (Jesellsch. in Basel, IT., p. 17, 1!»0.'k 
f According to S. Kalischer ( P.er. Dcutsch. chem. Gesollsch. 14, p. 2750, 1881) 
yAnc wire at temperatures above 300° becomes again brittle. 



VARIATIONS OK SPKCIFK^ (JHAVITY. 263 

wliicli nw too soft —lead, i'oi" cxaiiiplc — Iimnc (oo litllc cohesion, itiid 
are toni in iUtompliuii,' to draw them into wii'cs. 

In tlie ])rot'('ss of wire drawiiiii; tiic metals arc then in fact com- 
pressed, and in accof(hincc Avith wlial has hccn said, a certain dim- 
inution of density is to he expected if the pressure is hi<2^h enou<ih, 
hut thei'e arc no cei-tain grounds to jnvdict what miglit ha[)pen in 
furthc r continuation of the process. 

1 had formerly found advantage in the use of the pyknometer, in- 
stead of the Archimedean method of detei-mining specific gravity, 
hut had found an improvement in the lattei" when the supporting 
Avire is carefully platinized. Bv the friendly advice of Dr. Ch. Ed. 
Guillaume and Dr. V. Chappius, both of the Bureau International 
des Poids et Mesurcs in Pavilion de Breteuil in Sevres, who have 
been good enough to impart to me and my colleague the approved 
method employed at that institution, Ave liaA'e been able to avoid com- 
pletely the error formerly encountered, and have employed the 
method of displacement, Avith the same success Ave had previously 
obtained by the pyknometer. 

I give here only a small part of the results obtained, and choose 
for the purpose of illustration the experiments Avith platinum. It is 
not only a duty but a privilege to acknowledge in this connection the 
uncommon goodness of the firm of AV. C. Heriius, in Hanau, Avho 
have not only furnished me liberally Avith the costly material, but 
also, to avoid error, have separately draAvn all the Avires required for 
the research. 

Three parallel series of experiments Avere carried out, as folloAvs: 
From a single bar of the IlerRus connnercial platinum pieces lying 
side by side were cut off, and three cylinders, each about 6 mm. in 
diameter and 35 mm. long. Avere turned to a uniform Aveight of 32 
grams, then sent to us in Basel, Avhere Ave determined their s^pecific 
gravity. We then returned the samples to Hanau, Avhere by rolling 
and hanunering they Avere reduced to a diameter of 3 and length of 
55 mm., suitable for Avire draAving. The specific gravity of these 
samples was again measured in liasel. Returning them to Hanau, 
they Avere drawn successively to Avires of 1, 0.7, and O.-i nnn. diameter. 
After each draAving complete determination of the specific gravities 
of these Avires was made in Basel, and they Avere then before further 
draAving softened by heating to incandescence for three minutes. 
But before being further drawn— the Avires Avere ahvays cold 
drawn— the density of these softened Avires Avas determined, so that 
we made 3 times 3 determinations on hai-d Avire and the sanu^ number 
on soft Avire.* 

The results Avhich I noAV proceed to give are the mean of three re- 



oHere follow in the original article full details of a single determination, 
from which the extreme care and accuracy of the work is apparent. 



264 



VARIATIONS OF SPECIFIC GRAVITY. 



peated experiments with each of tlie three samples at each stage of 
its treatment. These measurements were made without exception by 
mv colleague, Mr. F. Sturm, and the mean error of the G9 deter- 
minations has the extremely satisfactory value of only O.OOO-t, 

Table I.—Tiwned cylinders (I) and rolled dial hammered cylinders (II). 



I. Platinum cylinders. 



II. Platinum cylinders, rolled and hammered 



No. 1. 



21.2136 
21.2137 
21.2137 



21.2137 



21.4.317 
21.4316 
21.4308 



21. 4314 



No. 2. 



21.3061 
21.3062 
21.3057 



21.3060 



21.4192 
21. 4190 
21.4201 



21.4194 



No. 3. 



21.1.326 
21.1323 
21.1330 



21.1326 



21.4147 
21.414.5 
21.4140 



21. 4144 



These numbers confirm my earlier statement, and show that even 
with such a favorable material as platinum the results are strongly 
aflected by the individuality of the sample examined. Samples cut 
from immediate proximity off the same bar show a difference of 
density of O.lT^j-l. 

By rolling and hammering the density is increased by, roughly, 1 
per cent, and the dift'erence of density between the three samples is 
at the same time reduced to about one-tenth its former magnitude. 
There is then nothing new in Table I, which merely proves the pres- 
ence of pores or faults, which are diminished by the application of 
mechanical force. 

Table II is, however, more interesting: 

Table II.— Rolled and hammered samples {II) and 1 mm. cold-drawn loire {III). 



11. Platinum samples, rolled and hammered 



III. Platinum wire 1 mm. in diameter, <'()ld drawn 



No. 1. 



21.4317 
21.4316 
21. 4308 



21.4314 



21.4139 
21.41»i 
21.4132 

21. 4136 



No. 2. 



21.4192 
21.4190 
21. 4201 



21.4194 



No. 3. 



21. 4147 
21.4145 
21.4140 



21.4144 



21.4232 
21.4224 
21.4223 



21.4229 
21.42:34 
2L4235 



21.4226 



21.4233 



Sample 1, which had the highest density as hammered platinum, 
showed a diminution in specific gravity of 0.01T8, which is a difler- 
ence far beyond the mean error of measurement (0.0004) already 
given. Samples 2 and 3, which had been somewhat lower in density 
than No. 1, advanced somewhat, but, as we shall see, it is probable 
that behind this ajjparent increase a decrease is really hidden, and 
that samples 2 and 3 also would have showed a falling off had they 



VARIATIONS OK SI'KCIFIO GRAVITY 



265 



been first haniiiu'ri'd (o :i somcwliat more coinjiiict foi-iii. Tlic iiia.xi- 
miim diii'ei'ence helweeii sampler lias (liiuinished to 0. 001)7. 

Of greatest interest is Table III, which exhibits the variations 
of density between cold drawn and annealed ])latinuMi wii'es. 

Table III. — PlathiKin irire of 1, 0.7, and 0.4 mm. iHaiiu'ter cold dnnvu (III (ind 
V. ]'Il) (did (tftmrards Jieated to incande>ice.)ir<' {IV, VI, and VIII). 





No. 1. 


No. 2. 


No. 3. 




f 21.4139 
{ 21.4136 
I 21.4132 


21.4232 
21.4224 
21.4223 


21.4229 
21.42:^4 




21.42:15 




21.4136 


21.4226 


21.4233 


IV. Like III, except heated wliitc* hot for 3 minutes 


[ 21.4317 
{ 21.4312 
t 21. 4314 


21.4*24 
21.4320 
21. 4325 


21.4325 
21. 4:^20 
21.4:326 




21.4314 


21.4323 


21.4324 


V. Platinum wire 0.7 mm. diameter, cold drawn. .. 


( 21.418t>' 
{ 21.4178 
I 21.4186 


21.4155 
21.41.59 
21.4158 


\ Lost. 




21.4181 


21.4157 








VI. Like V, except heated white hot 3 minutes .- 


f 21.4310 
\ 21.4315 
I 21. 4316 


21.4318 
21.4313 
21.4313 


21.4354 
21.4:149 
21. 43r>5 




21.4314 


21.4315 


21.4352 


VII. Platinum wire 0.4 mm. diameter, fold drawn. 


( 21.4144 
{ 21.4143 
I 21.4i:« 


21.4149 
21.4146 
21.4147 


21.4:i37 
21.4i:i5 




21. 4130 




21.4142 


21.4147 


21.4134 


VIII. Like VII, except heated white hot 3 minutes 


( 21.4305 
\ 21.4310 
[ 21.4310 


21. 4304 
21.4312 
21.4313 


21.4:318 
21. 4322 




21.4313 


, 


21.4308 


21.4310 


21.4317 



Snch are the resnlts, Avhich confirm the earlier discovery that 
excessive compression diminishes the specific iiraxity. T have already 
draAvn attention to the analogy here presented to the l)ehavi()r of 
gases under high pressures, which are less compressible than Boyle's 
law requires. 

The exj)lanation of this curious belunior of" wires may, however, 
depend on such factors as crystalline configuration, and, at all events, 
requires further exi)eriments to determine. 

A second new and very important result a])pears, that strongly 
compressed wires increase in specific gravity when heated to incan- 
descence. This indicates that an increase of the kinetic energy of 
the molecules suffices to restore them to their normal relations, but I 
do not venture here upon any explanation of the phenomenon and 
content myself with pointing out this new and independent i:)roof of 
the variability of specihc gravity." 

1 Here follows in the original article an explanation of the author's relations 
with Ilr. W. Sprinir in connection with the pnblication of tlioir joint researches 
bearing on this subjcc't. 



2f>() VARIATIONS OF BPECIFIC GRAVITY. 

These experiiiicnts have hitely been continued in Basel by my col- 
U'lifjue, and he finds that "lowed i)hitinuin wire 0.+ nnn. in diameter 
of specific Gravity i^l.l^UT fell ofl' in density to 21.4133 when drawn 
to 0.1 mm., and on being heated white hot ayain rose to 21.4346. Wires 
of chemically pure platinum, an alloy of platinum with 10 per cent 
iridium, aluminum, and cop{)er all behave in a similar manner, and 
rolled aluminum foil and hanunered zinc plates as well. 

A cliange of electrical conductivity had previously been noted after 
incandescence in cold-drawn wires of platinum, platinum-iridium, 
alumimim, and copper. 

These researches will be continued in all the directions here indi- 
cated, and an attempt \\ ill be made to measure the alterations by the 
volumetric method. 



SOME NEW MODES OF LTGITTING." 



By A. Ukimiiikk. 



Incandescent petrolem/i oil J((m pa. — Diiriiitr tho last quarter of a 
century the use of petroleum and its derivatives for illtnnination has 
been much restri{;ted by the growth of incandescent lighting by 
electricity, acetylene, and illuminating gas; but (|uite recently there 
has developed a new use of petroleum oil for incandescent mantle 
lighting. Various systems have been proposed, of which the earlier 
ones depended on the carbureting of air by the aid of some special 
device arul the disti'ibntion of this mixture under feeble pressure. 

Owing to complications of the mechanism and the tendency of 
stoppage in conducting passages these earlier arrangements found 
little favor, but the inventors of the Washington, Kitson, and (ilitsch 
systems have succeeded in avoiding separate mechanical contrivances 
and automatically produce the mixture of gas and air within tiie lamp 
itself. 

In these new systems of lighting, a liquid is stored in a central 
reservoir, from which runs a conducting pipe to a special distributer, 
and thence small tubes lead the li<iuid to the several lamps or heaters 
to be supplied. In the \\'ashington and Kitson systems petroleum 
oil is the li(|uid emi)l()yed, while the (xlitsch system uses benzine. 
The reservoir for the licpiid may be either inside or outside the build- 
ing, but for single lamps or heaters is often dii'ectly attached to tho 
capillary tubes which supply the burnei's. These capillary tubi>s are 
of steel and hardly an eighth of an inch in external diameter, so that 
they may readily be hidden from sight, and are, indeed, l)oth less 
visible and less dangerous than electric wiring. The tul)es are Jested 
to bear a i)ressure of 10 atmospheres, but in use are not required to 
withstand more than 4 atmospheres pressure. It is apparent, too, 
that with a licjuid of such slight volatility as petroleum oil there is 
nmch less danger of explosion in conseciueiu-e of leakage than with 
illuminating gas or, indeed, with l)enzine. 



"Translated and abridged, by permission, from Cosmos, Paris, May 7, 21, 
June IS, 1904. 

267 



268 



SOME NEW MODES OP LIGHTING. 



The Washington hinip is ahvady well known, although of recent 
invention. It belongs to the type of huni)s in which the conihnstibh' 
li(ini(l is vaporized in a special chamber above and within reach of the 
flame. Air is admitted to this chamber and, mixing with the vapor- 
ized oil, is led by Avay of two large tubes at the side of the lamp to 
feed the flame. The vaporizing device is a simple metallic tube 
heated by radiation from the incandescent mantle which surrounds 
it. A cock at the lower end of this tube regulates the admission of 
the liquid, which, after being vaporized, passes out through a small 
orifice at the top and mixes with air in the chamber above. Thence the 

mixture is led downward through 
the two tubes at the side of the 
lamp and is conveyed to the burner 
through a wire netting. The in- 
candescent mantle, which surrounds 
the vai^orizer, is held by a metal 
support fastened to the vaporizer 
itself. Thus the flame which ren- 
ders the mantle incandescent at 
the same time feeds itself by vapoi-- 
izing the oil in the tube. In the 
earlier models the lamp required 
to be started by first burning a little 
alcohol in a cup below the burner 
so as to vaporize enough oil to begin 
the incandescence, after which, of 
course, the lamp continued to pro- 
duce the vai)or consumed. As 
first exhibited, the lamps were fur- 
nished in two types of two and 
three burners yielding, respectively, 
500 and 750 candlepower, but 
recently JVI. Georges Washington, 
of Brussels, has devised other types 
of less intensity, and the company is now constructing portable lamps 
of about 50 can(llei)ower. 

The Kitson system of lighting, introduced in Germany by a Dres- 
den syndicate, is analogous to the preceding. An oil reservoir, con- 
venieiitly ])laced outside the dwelling, communicates by capillary 
tubes to the burners. By means of a force pump an air pressure of 
about 4 atmospheres is produced over the oil in the reservoir, which 
is thus caused to circulate througli the capillaries. 

There are several notable differences between the Washington and 
Kitson lamps. In the latter a vaporizing tube, common to the several 
burners of a single lamp, runs horizontally over the burners, and upon 




Fig. 1. The Kitsuu lamp. 



SOME NEW MODES OF LICIITING. 269 

it is concentrated l)y metal screens the heat i-isin<!: I'l-oiii tlie incan- 
descent mantles. The vapoi'ized oil escapes (h)\vn\vard throu,<j:h a 
large tube at the side of the himj) and here, mixing with ail- a(hnifted 
through a heated chamh(>i', is led from beneath to the burners. 

The light of the two-biii-nei- Kitson lamp is (hiz/Iing and reaches 
at least 1,000 candlei)o\ver. With specially favoi-able conditions, such 
as with a new mantle and a high i)ressure of oil, 1,500 or even 2,500 
candlei)ower is sometimes obtained. Oil is consumed at the rate of 
about 0.2 liter (one-half pint) i)er 1,000 candlepower per hour. The 
lio-ht produced has a mellow, agreeable color, nnich wai'uier in tone 
than that of the electric arc or the incandescent gaslight. As already 
remai'ked, the intensity depends on the pressure, which is an inconven- 
ience for a lamp of small oil capacity, but where thei-e is a reservoir 
of large dimensions the diminution of pressure during twenty-four 
hours causes no considerable vai'iation in the intensity of the lamp. 

Of all methods of i)roviding intense light, these which have been 
described are most economical. It is possible to combine in a single 
system lamps of great and relatively small intensity, and the material 
employed is connnon and inexpensive and may serve to i)roduce both 
lighting and heating, or, indeed, motive power. There are no special 
dangers to be feared when the combustible liquid is placed outside 
the dwelling, and both the Washington and Kitson systems include 
an autouuitic valve to close off the circulation in case of leakage. The 
greatest ()l)jections are the use of licpiid which has a disagreeable odor, 
tends to creep, and which sometimes yields a foul and disagreeable 
smoke. Finally, the production of the gas from the li(]uid under 
pressiu-e produces a noticeable roaring sound, l^ut for most pur- 
poses these inconveniences are of minor importance as compared with 
the great advantages of a superl) quality of light at minimum cost. 

No other mode of lightin.g can compare in cheapness with the 
petroleum incandesci'ut lamj) in countries where kerosene nuiy be 
bought at a cost of from 2 to 4 cents a liter (8 to lO cents a gallon). 
It is just to add that in cases where natural gas or water power fur- 
nishes an almost gratuitous source of energy the electric light may 
indeed compare in cheapness, but even then there must first be ])ro- 
vided complicated and costly nuichinery. 

Benzine is employed instead of petroleum in the Glitsch system, and 
although somewhat more dangerous, this liquid is cleaner and in cer- 
tain other respects more suitable for the purpose. It is unnecessary 
to use pressure greater than 1 atmosphere to circulate benzine through 
the capillary tubes, and the lamps may be fed by merely placing the 
reservoir somewhat above them and depending on the force of gravity. 
The metliod of starting combustion is very simple and ccmsists merely 
in heating the burner for twenty or thirty seconds in an auxiliary 
flame of alcohol in order to begin the vaporization of the benzine. 



270 



SOME NEW MODES OF LIGHTING. 



As conipaivd with petroleum incandescent liohting, the benzine 
system is more expensive and less suitable for brilliant illumination, 
such as is required in streets, railway stations, and factories, l)ut on 
account of its greater convenience and cleanliness is perhaps better 
suited to lighting of dwellings, heating, and cooking pur])oses. 

Alcohol may also be employed for incandescent lighting, either 
alone or in a mixture, and may be distributed under feeble pressure; 
but at present the use of alcohol for this purpose does not appear to 
be practically successful. In W()-2 it was stated that alcohol lamps 
of from ()0 to 800 candlepower burned from 10 to 10 grams per candle- 
power hour, while lamps of from 100 to 1,000 candlepower employ- 
ing mixtures of alcohol and hydrocarbons in equal ratio consumed 5 to 
10 grams of alcohol per candlepower hour. To make alcohol lighting 
commercially successful it is necessary to find a solid or liquid hydro- 
carbon soluble in alcohol and very cheap, Avhich will give rise to 
enhanced heating effect Avith diminished cost. 

A new incandescent petroleum lamp has ap- 
peared which consumes a mixture in equal parts 
of the vapors of water and petroleum. Readers 
may recall descriptions of an ingenious little 
water vapor blow torch. The new Altmann 
l>urner is evidently based on the same idea, but 
is more compact, for it combines the reservoirs 
of water and oil and recpiires no wick like Mer- 
cier's blow torch. In the Altmann burner com- 
plete combustion, of the hydrocarbon is efl'ected 
in presence of the water vapor, and the flame. 
in absence of the incandescent mantle, is bhie 
like that of the Bunsen gas burner. A vertical 
section of the lamp is shown in fig. 2. In the 
reservoir, which is divided in two sections, is the water W and the pe- 
troleum P. The two liquids pass by separate channels c to the vapor- 
izing tubes d d. By means of a small auxiliary lamp placed centrally 
at /.the gas tubes are heated to the temperature required to vaporize 
the liquids, thus producing a mixture of gases in the chamber c, heated 
both by the radiation oi* the incandescent mantle and by the little 
burner /. This auxiliary burner is fed with combustible liquid con- 
tained at P near the foot of tlie lamp. On leaving the chamber r, the 
mixed vapor traverse a tube h to a burner analogous to those employed 
for incandescent lighting with ordinary illuminating gas. In the 
models now in use the intensity of illumination ranges from 80 to 100 
candlepower. The consumption of petroleum is about a liter (one- 
fourth of a gallon) in tAventy-four hours, so. that the cost is about 
0.002 cent per candlepower hour. A heater is constructed by the 
same company which also appears to be very economical. 




Fig. 2.— The Altmann 
lamp ( cross section ) . 



SOMK NKW MODES OK LUillTlNG. 271 

Xcw methods of electric luihthuj. — As early as LSTS Arclicrcaii, 
Carre, and Oauduin s()ii<j:lit to au<^m'ii( llu' luminosity of the electric 
arc by rendering the arc itself as well as the positive carbon incandes- 
cent. For this purpose they mixed with the carbon of the electrodes 
suitable substances such as oxides of calcium or ma<rnesiuui; l)ut 
unfortunately there occurred a preci})itation of the I'efractory oxides 
upon the lower carbon, and a formation of scoria which resulted in a 
prejndicial unsteadiness for illumination. After the Welsbacli man- 
tle attained success, new efforts were made to apply this })rinciple of 
incandescence of the arc, and Monsieur Bremer exhibited at the expo- 
sition of 1000 a model having four special carbons, and in which the 
light produced in the arc was reflected downward. The presence of 
mineral matter resulted in increasing the luminous surface, modifying 
the color of the light as desired, and in diminishing by one-half the 
current consumption for a given illumination. 

A considerable number of concerns, notably in (lermany, are now 
producing flaming arc lamps more or less patterned after that of 
Bremer. The [)rincipal differences consist in the varied construc- 
tion of the electrodes, but all are composed of mixtures of carbon 
and some salt of calcium, usually fluorspar. Professor Wedding, 
having studied the influence of this substance on the consiunption 
of energy in the lamp, has found that the most favorable conditions 
are found with 15 per cent fluorspar. Electrodes of this composi- 
tion are found to consume but 0.15 watts per candle, as compared 
with 0.5 watts for the ordinary arc. 

Doctor Arndt's researches at the Technische Hochschule in Berlin 
have shown that the operation of the flaming arc does not involve 
any ajjpreciable production of <)l)jectionable gases. Furthermore, 
the light produced is of a yellowish-red color and much less cold and 
harsh than that of the ordinary arc. It more resembles sunlight in 
color, and ])enetrates better through fog than the light of shorter 
wave length produced by the ordinary arc. 

The Bremer arc recjuires the use of si)ecial lamps, but by emplov- 
ing trizonal carbons A. Blondel has avoided this iiiconxenience. 
Minerals are contained in the two interior zones, and such arcs, con- 
suming only 3 amperes, have been found to give nearly three, and 
similar arcs, consuming 9 amperes, more than four, times the effi- 
ciency of the ordinary arc light consuming equal energy. 

In the same general category belongs the lamp with three elec- 
trodes and two arcs, devised by L. Sigfried Andersson, of Stockholm. 
For the purpf)se of increasing the area of luminous surface, and at 
the same time producing incandescence within the arc, there is 
introduced between the two carbons which carry the current a third 
cylinder, formed of a more refractory substance than the two others. 
The regulation of this lamp is very delicate, and is effected in a most 



272 



SOME NEW M0DP:S OK r^TCllTlNG. 



iiiox.iiious iiiiiniicr by incaiis of a Wheatslone bridge, mado up of the 
(wo side ai'cs UuMusolves and two suitable resistances, which are 
wound as ek'ctroinaonels in such a manner as to operate tlie i-e<ruhit- 
inu" ni(M hanisiu. The central cylinder thus carries the cuiTent only 
when Ihe l)rid<ie is thrown temporarily out of balance. 

Instead of rendering- the arc luminous by the aid of icfractory 
oxides, the same i-esull may be obtained by introducing a combustible 
li(]ui(l or powder through a hollow electrode. This device has been tried 
by ,1. Akermann, but it does not seem likely (o prove very practicable. 

All these devices of iuti'oducing foreign substances into the arc are 
evidently for the double purpose of diminishing its resistance aiul of 
auiinienting its luminosity, and there seems to be no reason why a 
conducting vapoi' lik'e that of mci-cury should not be substituted for 
(he solid particles of carbon or of metallic salts or oxides which have 
been used for this purpose. The (\)oi)er-riewitt lamp is the develop- 
ment of this idea. Kveiybody is familiar with the (leissler tubes, in 
which light is produced by an electric current traversing a rarefied 
i>as. It is ])ossibl(>, as Tesla has shown, to excite such tubes to lumi- 
nosity by simply placing them in a varying electrostatic field of high 
frequency. About 1(S92 Arons show^'d (hat mercury vapor traversed 




KrMStancc 

Fid. :i. I)isi)iisiti()ii of <'nrrcnt in (\)()i)er-H('Witt liiiiii). 

b\' a cui-reut emits light, but there was no idea at (lia( (ime of employ- 
iwj: (his (le\'ice for illiuuinadng purposes. The credit foi' this discov- 
ei-v rests, thend'orc. with Co()perTIewi((, who has de\ ised a mercury 
lamp of ureat simplicity, composed of a glass (ube with electrodes at 
(he two ends. The negative elecd-ode is mercury itself, and the i)()si- 
ti\-e electrode may be either mercury, iron, or other metal. Phdimun 
wires sealed in(o the glass conduct (he curi'en( (o (he electrodes. 
When cold, (he pressure of the mercury vapor is vei-y small, l)ii( when 
hea(ed bv the passage of (he current (h(> mercury vapor pi-essure rises 
to about -2 mm. of li(|uid mei-cui-y, or about one fonr-huudi-edth of 
an atuu)sphere. 

Cooper-lb'wi(t lamps operate under a dilh'rence of [)oten(ial of 
110 vohs, of which aboiU SO are absorbed in (he arc. Since (he iu(er- 
nal resistance is very high at first, this ])otential diil'erence is insuf- 
ficient to start the light, and several thousaiul volts are recjuired for a 
brief interval at the start. Accordingly some auxiliary device has to 
be providecl, as is the case with the Nernst lamp, to heat (he con- 
ductor to the tem])erature at which the ordinary voltage will nuiin- 
tain incandescence. For e\am[)le, the re(|uire(l voltage nuiy be ob- 



SOME NKW MODES OE I.IC I I'll N< i 



273 




%>/ 



Fui. 4.— Different forms of the Mercury vapor laiiip. 




^^ 



taincd hy iiili'odiiciiiijf a sclf-iiuliictioii coil in the laiuj) cii-ciiil. iiml 
sliuntiiii:" across the hinip a (luick-actini; oil iii(i'rni])t('i'. The cxti'a 
cnriviit at break sulliccs to stai't (he ai-c. wliicli lliiis i)riinarilv cxcitcH] 
is al)l(' to coiiliiiiH', and the sclf-iiidiiclioii (Iicrcartcr plays tlu' pari 
iuorcly of rcducini/; variations ol' the ciiriH-iil. Fi<rurc ■) shows tlu^ 
disposition of circnit adopted by C'ooper-IIcwitt. 

Usually the tubes ha\'e the form of an inverted U, with short arms. 
Each arm contains mercury, and at the top is an iron electrode. 
Thus the arc may i)ass between iron and merc^ury or between two 
mercury electrodes as desiivd. Tn (he foi'iner case the distance be- 
tween electrodes is about 7 cm. and in the latter about 9 cm. These 
hinii^s are exhausted to about the same deoree as ordinary incandes- 
cent electric lights, and they may be run at any current s(i-eiiiitli 
between 0.5 and 5 amperes. IJelow 0.5 amperes the arc ceases, and 
above 5 amperes the tube breaks, owing to the heat produced. The 
difference of potential 
between terminals va- 
ries from 8*2 to 87 volts 
for U tubes. The effi- 
ciency of these lamps 
is said to be upward 
of three times as high 
as that of the ordinai-y 
arc. 

Other methods of 
starting the mercury 
arc have been proposed 
by various physicists, 
and one of the most 
simple, devised by Doc- 
tor Weintraub, involving the use of a small auxiliary arc, avoids re- 
course to a high voltage at starting. It therefore appears that there 
are ready means of oAercoming this primary obstacle to the use of the 
mercury arc; but a second and very serious objection lies in the green 
color of the light produced. Being wholly without red rays, this 
light gives a ghastly appearance to the objects illuminated. On the 
other hand, according to (lerman ex])eriments the light has a great 
power of penetration, and it is besides highly actinic, and thus suit- 
able for photographic purposes, and, moreover, the color is not 
fatiguing to the eyes. It has been proposed to introduce a warmer 
tint l)y interposing a red mantle, l)ut this device greatly diminishes 
the efficiency. Perhaps better results may be reached by introducing 
traces of certain neutral gases, or substituting some amalgam instead 
of pure mercury. 
SM 1904 18 



274 SOME NEW MODES OF LIGHTING. 

In all the methods of lighting thus far mentioned in this article 
the source is a A^ery intense light restricted to a comparatively nar- 
row area ; but there has very recently been installed in New York 
a system of elect>ric lighting by vacuum tubes of great length, whose 
comiDaratively feeble brightness is counterbalanced by their great 
area of luminous surface. Plate I shows an apj^lication of this 
method of lighting within an apartment. While not yet fully per- 
fected, this system gives excellent promise, both as regards clieapness 
and general satisfactory qualities of illumination. A principal diffi- 
culty seems to consist in obtaining a suitable gaseous conductor 
Avliose spectrum shall approximate that of ditfused daylight instead 
of being restricted to a few wave lengths like that of mercury, but 
partial success in this respect is already achieved. 




O B 



PROGRESS I\ WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY." 



r.y Willi \M Mavi:i:. Jr.'' 



Tlu' possibility of (('Icirraphini: \vi(li()ii( w ii-cs hy incniis of electric 
Avavos in free space was deinoustrated when Dr. H. Hertz, in 1S8T 
and 18SS, holdinij a so-c-alltM] "electric eye," consist in, i; of a rin<; of 
copper wire ahont IC inches in diameter and broken at one point, 
a few feet from tlio s|)ark ijap of an indnction coil, or oscillator, was 
al)k> to detect minnto s})arks jninpinij: across the break in the copper 
rino:. 

In ISSO Doctor Branly discovered that metal filini;s, which, when 
made part of an electric circuit, liad normally a very high electi-ical 
i-esistance, but became good conductors of electricity wdien electric 
oscillations were set up in the circuit, and that they retained their 
con<lucting qualities until shaken up. 

The ai't of wireless telegraphy took a long forward step when, in 
1S94, Dr. (now- Sir") Oliver Lodge made his notable experiments 
before the Royal Institution, in which he used, as a transmitter of 
electric waves, the Hertz or Righi oscillator, and as a detector of those 
waves, -the Rranly coherer, consisting of a tube filled with metal 
filings in an electric circuit containing an electric bell. To insure 
the filings resuming their state of nonconductivity upon the cessa- 
tion of the electric oscillations. Doctor Lodge caused a " tappei-," 
operated by clockwoi-k, to strike the tube continuously. A b(>ll or 
relay in the cohei-er cii-cuit could thus be kc\){ in vibration during 
the continuance of electric oscillations and woidd become passive 
when the oscillations ceased, aiul in this way signals cotdd be trans- 
mitted. Lodge believed that the limit of sensitiveness of this ap- 
paratus would be half a mile, but even this distance woidd ha\'e ad- 
vanced the signaling distance four-hundredfold beyond the j)oint at 
which Doctor Hertz had left it. 



a Reprinted by permission, after revision by author, from Cassier's Magazine. 
June. l!»o;{. In connection witli tills article it may be found interesting and 
profitable to refer to his earlier one. " Wireless toietrrapby — its jiast and jtrosont 
status and its iirospects," Cassier's Mafrazine. .I.iiui;iry. lUO'j. nnd (Jenci-:!! 
Aiipendix to Sndtbsonian Report. 1002. pape 2''»1. 

''Author of "American telegraphy " and " Maver's wireless t(>le},'rapby." 

275 



276 PROGRESS IN WTRET.ESS TELEGRAPHY. 

The art, Iioavcwi', rccoived its most j)()^v^M•ful impetus ^vhen ISIar- 
coni, in 1898. iisiiio- vertical wires SO to 100 feet high at each station, 
a 10-inch spark inchiction coil, and an improved l^ranly-T-iodge co- 
herer, succeeded in transmitt ing wireless signals a distance of about 
40 miles, which distance within another twelve months, by using still 
higher vertical wires and more improved apj)aratus, he increased to 
i^80 miles over water. 

The writer on other occasions has remarked that had the progress 
of wireless telegraphy rested with TTert^^'s discovery of the copper 
ring detector, its utility for connnercial i)urp()ses would have been 
very limited— in fact, nil, since the utmost distance at which signals 
can be detected by that device is about 8 or 10 feet. It might noAv 
be said that Avhile imi)r<)vements in the construction of the filings 
cohei-er, togethei- with increased height of the vertical wires and an 
increase in their number and in the power of the transmitting appa- 
ratus, render it i)ossible to receive signals with this form of detector 
at a distance of 400 to 500 miles under favoi-able conditions, still, had 
there been no other receiving instrument than the filings coherer, 
imi)oi"tant as the iinprovement in that instrument has been, there 
would perhai)s Inne been little or no pi-ogress to note relative to the 
speed of transmission by wireless telegraphy, which, with the filings 
coherer as a receiver, nuiy be ])laced at from eight to twelve words per 
minute. The action of the filings cohei-er is inherently sluggish in the 
production of jierfect signals, the cohering and '' tai)iMng back," 
added to the intertia of the moving parts of the tapi)er, the relays, 
etc., all tending to that result. 

It may be noted in this relation that in ordinarv shipboard prac- 
tice to-day the distance signaled with the filings cohei'er does not 
much exceed 50 miles. 

It was therefore very obvious to all concerned in the art of wire- 
less telegrai)hy that a thing much to be desired was the invention or 
discovery of a coherer or detector which would, so to speak, " close '' 
automatically on the occurrence of electric oscillations and ''open" 
automatically when the oscillations ceased, or vice versa. As fre- 
quently happens in such cases, this desideratum, an autocoherer, Avas 
not vei'v long in forthcoming. 

One of the first devices that bore j)romise of fidiilling the foregoing 
requirement is known as Schaefer's " anticoherer." This consists 
of a silver film deposited on glass, .\cross this film slits are traced, 
these being covered by a thin layer of celluloid. A\'hen the silver film 
is made part of an electric circuit it is found that the resistance of the 
circuit rises when electric oscillations are set up therein, and when 
the oscillations cease the resistance automatically falls. This action, 
it will be observed, is the reverse of what occurs in the Branly filings 
cohei"ei': hence the term anticoherer. It has 1>c(mi sui'mised that the 



PROGRESS IN WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY. 277 

('H'cct of llu> Uliii of celluloid, which docs iiol |)ciicti'iitc into (he inte- 
rior of the slits, is to prevent the tlissipatioii of the particles of sil- 
ver in the slits, and whose motion under the influence of electric 
oscillations prohahly accounts for the vai'iations in the resistance of 
the circuit. Carbon tilings were also found to decohere automat- 
ically; but these devices were not extensively used in practice, if 
at ail. 

The next most important autocoherer was that due to Castelli, 
known for a time as the Solari coherer, also as the Italian navy 
coherer. This autocoherer was used by Marconi in his first e\])ei-i- 
nients in trans-Atlantic wireless telegraphy. It consists of a tube 
similar to the filings coherer, but instead of metal filings between the 
ends of the iron or carbon rods within the tube, a drop of mercury is 
emi)loyed. In the circuit with the coherer there is a small, battery 
and a telephone receiver. On the arrival of electric oscillations the 
mercurv appears to cohere to the carbon or iron, with the result that 
the resistance decreases, but immediately rises when the oscillation 
ceases, these variations in the resistance of the circuit setting u]) noises 
in the telejihone, which can be read as dots and dashes when messages 
are transmitted. This autodetector has the disadvantage that after 
some use it becomes rather unreliable in operation, to prevent Avhich 
frequent renewals of the mercury and cleansing of the tube are neces- 
sary. 

Subsequently ISIarconi devised an autocoherer, known as a magnetic 
detector, which has been used in his trans- Atlantic and other long-dis- 
tance experiments. This coherer consists of a primar}^ and secondary 
coil of wire (wound over a coil of fine iron wires), the inner coil 
of which is connected to the vertical wire in a manner i^ractically 
similar to that in wdiich the fllings coherer is connected. The outer 
coil contains in its circuit a telephone receiver, but no battery. This 
detector of electric waves is based on the observed fact that when 
a magnet, such as the iron core, is caused to undergo slow changes 
of magnetism, electric oscillations in the outer coil bring about rapid 
changes in the magnetism of the core, Avhich, in turn, set up currents 
HI the inner coil, and these are heard as clicks in the telephone 
receiver. 

The slow changes of magnetization referred to are brought about as 
follows : An endless rope or core of fine iron 
wires is represented in figure 1 by c c; p p are 
pulleys about an inch in diameter, operated by 
Pio. i.-Miirconi magnetic clockwork. The iroii ropc passes over the pul- 
detector. j^^.^.j. ^^^^ tlirough a small glass tube upon 

which the coils referred to, w w, are coiled. The iron core is magnet- 
ized by two horseshoe magnets {not shown in figure), the ends of 



278 PROGRESS TN WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY. 

which are hiid with their siniihir poles together on the coils, their 
position on the coils being changed until the best results are obtained. 

In the United States, De Forest and Fessenden have also devised 
autocoherers, which are used in their respective wireless systems. The 
De Forest autocoherer, which has been termed a "responder," comprises 
a tube with tin electrodes or plugs running into the bore. Between 
the inner ends of the electrodes is placed a viscous substance, such as 
glycerin, in which some lead oxide is suspended as a depolarizer. In 
shunt circuit Avitli the tube are a small battery and a telephone. Nor- 
mally the battery sets up an electrolytic action, which tears off small 
jDarticles of tin from the positive electrode. The«e particles '^ bridge " 
or '■ thread " over the space between the ends of the plugs, Avith the 
result that the resistance is much decreased. Incoming electric waves, 
however, establish electric oscillations in the responder circuit, which 
disrupt the threads or bridges, whereupon the resistance is at once 
greatly increased. These variations in the resistance of the circuit 
are readily indicated in the telephone, and thus when the train of 
electric waves is broken into dots and dashes of the Morse code mes- 
sages are easily received. This autocoherer, it will be observed, is of 
the anticoherer type. 

The Fessenden detector, or " barretter," employs a different princi- 
ple from either of tlie foregoing. Fessenden takes advantage of the 
facts that an electric current increases the tem]3erature of a conductor 
through which it passes, and that an increase of temperature of the 
conductor increases the electrical resistance of the conductor, and 
contrariwise. He therefore employs a very thin loop of platinum 
wire contained in a small glass bulb, the whole so disposed that heat 
will be quickly conducted from the platinum wire. In the circuit of 
this loop lie includes a small battery and a telephone receiver, suit- 
ably connected with the vertical wire. "WHien oscillatory currents are 
set up in the circuit, rapid variations of the temperature of the 
platinum loop and corresponding variations in the resistance of the 
circuit are ])roduced, these in turn affecting the telephone receiver 
])ractically as in the instances already given. 

jVIoi'e recently both Fessenden and De Forest have used a detector, 
termed by the former a " ]i(niid barretter " and b}' the latter an " elec- 
trolytic receiver," which consists of an exceedingly fine short plati- 
num wire in a dilute nitric acid solution. The device is outlined in 
figure 2, in which V is a vessel containing the liquid L ; B is the fine 
wire, the extent of the immersion of which is adjusted by a suitable 
screw. The lower wire, ni', enters the liquid from the bottom of V. 
Its size is not material. Connection with the receiving oscillating 
circuit is made by means of the wire -w and the wire w'. In the 
usual shunt circuit from the oscillating circuit there are included the 
detector, a small battery, and a telephone receiver. 



PROGRESS IN WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY. 



279 




Fig. 2.— Liquid detector. 



According to Fess(Mi(l(Mi, this device operates by reason of the faet 
that practically all the resistance of the circuit is localized and con- 
centrated within a short distance of the point where the cylindrical 
platinum wire projects into the liquid. The current from the small 
battery flows throui>-h the shunt circuit, but owin<^ to the hiijh i-esist- 
ance of the circuit this current is nornudly weak. The incoming- 
electric oscillations dc^crease this resistance, 
varying the circuit, and thereby producing 
audible signals in the telephone. 

According to I)e Forest, the operation of this 
detector is due to the setting up of a counter 
electromotive force of polarization in the cell, 
which makes the cell apparently noncon(bu-t- 
ing. Incoming oscillations cause a temporary 
annulment of the msulating film of oxygen gas surrounding the posi- 
tive electrode, varying the current in the local circuit, with the desired 
result of producing signals readable on the telephone. There are 
noAv two other claimants for the inventorship of this detector, namely, 
H. K. Vreeland of this country, and Schloemilch of Gernuiny, which 
fact may be considered a fair indication of the practicability and re- 
liability of the device. 

Still another antodetector is that successfully employed in the 
Lodge-Muirhead wireless telegraph system. It is shown in figure 3 
and is known as the oil-film detector. It consists, essentially, of a 
rotating steel disk D', operated by clockwork. The periphery of 
this disk enters a vessel r containing mercury m. The disk is nor- 
mally prevented from making direct contact with the mercury by a 
film of mineral oil, but electric oscillations in the circuit cause the 
mercury and disk to cohere with the usual result. 
The detector circuit is completed by wires w w\ 

By reason of the sensitiveness of the telephone re- 
ceiver, changes of current that would not att'ect a relay 
are observable in the former instrument. Hence, by 

?- ,-^ the use of this instrument much weaker electric 

waves arc detected than would be the case with the 
filings coherer. Furthermore, the antodetector re- 
sponds instaneously, so that a higher rate of signaling 
is obtainable by its means, a speed of 10 words a 
minute having already been obtained by De Forest. 
Marconi predicts that ultimately he Avill be able to transmit one 
hundred words per miimte by means of his detector and suitable auto- 
matic transmitting and receiving apparatus. 

Important improvements have also been made in the matter of 
syntonic, or tuned, windless telegraphy, by means of which it is 
hoped to eventually transmit two or more different messages at the 




Fig. 3.— Lodge- 
Muirhead auto- 
detector. 



280 PROGRESS IN WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY. 

same time to and from the same stations. By tuning is meant giving 
the respective transmitting circuits a fundamental period of oscilla- 
tion, which can be done by proper adjustment of the capacity and in- 
ductance of the oscillating circuits, analogously as the rate of vibra- 
tion of a tuning fork may be varied by varying its elasticity, its 
inertia, etc. Thus far it does not appear that this desirable result has 
been satisfactorily accomplished. Jiy means of tuned circuits, how- 
ever, the i^rinciple of sympathetic resonance is brought into use, and 
thus, with a given amount of electrical energy at the transmitter and 
a detector of given sensitiveness, it is feasible to transmit messages to 
a greater distance than would be the case with untuned circuits. It 
may be added, also, that Fessenden, De Forest, and others have suc- 
ceeded very well in cutting out interference from other stations by 
means of tuning devices. 

For long-distance transmission, Marconi, De Forest, and others 
have successfully resorted to the u.se of dynamo machines for the 
production of electric oscillations of much greater energy than are 
obtainable by the most powerful induction coils. The height and 
number of vertical wires used in long-distance transmission have 
also been increased, towers 250 feet high, Avith 50 or more vertical 
wires, being employed by several of the wireless telegraph companies. 

Considerable progress has also been made in telegraphing over- 
land without wires, by means of portable outfits, for militarj^ pur- 
poses, much of the work of this kind having been done by Sie- 
mens & rialske, of Berlin, Germany, using the Braun system. The 
apparatus is transported on carts, and the vertical wire is elevated 
by means of a captive balloon, or, in fair weather, by kites. The 
distance to which signals can be transmitted by this apparatus is 
said to be 60 miles, and it is anticipated that within a short time 
all the important armies of the world will be supplied with apparatus 
of this general type. Recent experimouts by Marconi and Slaby- 
Arco in Europe, and by De Forest in the United States, have shown 
that it is possible to transmit wireless signals to distances of from 300 
to 1.000 miles overland. 

The most iuiportant connnercial use to which this art has yet 
been put, however, is that of making possible communication between 
vessels at sea and between vessels and the mainland, which would 
still appear to be its greatest sphere of usefulness, and every week 
sees a larger number of vessels and shore stations equipped with wire- 
less telegraph outfits. 



ELECTRIC WELDING DEVELOPMENT." 



Bv Emuu Thomson. 



The art of Avoldina" ii'on is i)r()l)al)ly as old as the earliest produc- 
tion of that metal by man. In fact, the reduction of iron in the 
primitive forces demanded the union by weldino; of the reduced par- 
ticles, for no true fusion could have resulted, the percentage of car- 
bon present being too low. Until the closing years of the last cen- 
tury iron was the only weldal)Ie metal, if we except gold and plati- 
num — too expensive for connnon a})plication. 

The fact that nearly pure iron, so difficult to melt, becomes quite 
plastic at high temperatures, while the oxide, or black scale, melts 
long before the metal itself becomes fluid, thus providing a liquid 
flux which is squeezed out during the process of union, accounts for 
the unique position Avhich iron held until recent years. AMien. how- 
ever, the heating effects of electric current energy, so perfectly under 
control, were applied to weld metals, a metal or alloy Avhich would 
not weld became the exception instead of the rule, as before. ^luch 
of the former work of the smithy fire is now accomplished by the 
electric welding transformer, and although many metals are easily 
manipulated l\y the electric process, iron, of course, still occupies, as 
ever, the principal place. 

The electric weld is becoming a more and more important factor 
in many industries. During recent years the extension of its appli- 
cation has been steady, and each year has witnessed its entrance into 
new fi(dds. Sometimes, indeed, new manufactures, or new ways of 
obtaining results, have been based upon its use. The electric welds 
under consideration are the results of that operation of uniting two 
pieces of metal by what is known as the "" Thomson process,'' first 
brought out by the writer and rendered available in connnercial 
practice a considerable mnnber of years ago. The rai)idity, flexi- 
bility, cleanliness, neatness, accuracy, and economy of the electric 
process has won for it such an important standing in the arts that 
many future extensions in its application are assured. 

The uniformity of the work, the control of the operation, the ex- 
treme localization of the heat to the particular parts to be united, 
and the fact that the process is not limited to iron and steel, but can 

" Reprinted, by i)enuission, from Cassier's Magazine, New Yorlc, June. 1004. 

281 



282 ELECTRIC WELDING DEVELOPMENT. 

(leal equally well with other metals, such as copper, brass, bronzes, 
and even lead, are characteristics of the electric weldin<»: operation. 

In its simplest form an electric welder consists of a special trans- 
former, the i)rimarv circuit of which receives current from an electric 
station or dynamo <>:enerator at a voltage usually from 100 to 500 
times that required to make a weld. The copper secondary circuit 
of the transformer is generally only a single turn of very large sec- 
tion, so that it may develop an extremely heavy current at from 2 
to 4 volts — an electric pressure so low that it can not give the 
least effect of shock, and one for which there is no difficulty in secur- 
ing perfect insulation. The Avork pieces are held in clamps or vises, 
attached to or carried upon the terminals of the single-turn secondary 
circuit. The control of the clamping devices and the current switch 
is either manual or, in some cases, entirely automatic. Without 
attempting to enumerate the many applications of electric welding 
in the arts, we may refer to a few examples. 

In the wagon and carriage industry the process is applied in the 
production of tires of all sections, axles, hub, spoke, and sand bands, 
fifth Avheels, shifting rails, steps, shaft iron, etc.. while it has found 
a large use in the wielding into continuous strips or bands of the wires 
inclosed in rubber tires for holding them in place. The larger pai't 
of the dash-frames used in carriages in the United States are now 
probably made by electric welding, while iron and steel agricultural 
wheels are built up or have their parts united by electric welds. 

To enumerate the many applications to the bicycle industry would 
be almost to catalogue most of the metal parts of this useful machine. 
It must be borne in mind, too, that a Avelding machine, slightly modi- 
fied, is equally applicable for locally heating parts in electric braz- 
ing or hard soldering, for upsetting, and for bending or shaping. 
Bicycle crank hangers, pedals, seatposts, fork and fork ends, frames, 
and brake parts tluis become products in which the welding trans- 
former has its part. It has found a useful field also in tool manufac- 
ture, such as drills, reamers, taps, band and circular saws, drawing 
knives, carpenter's squares, printer's chases, etc., and electric weld- 
ing has a closely related use in the production of machine parts. 
Cam shafts and crank shafts are made from drop forgings welded 
together, teeth are inserted into gear wheels, and teeth are welded to 
saw bodies, including stone saws. Such things as inking rolls in 
printing machines and fallers for looms are additional examples. 

In the wire industry the i)art played by electric welding is already 
quite important, and becomes steadily more so. Besides the mere, 
simple joining of wires of iron, steel, or copper into long lengths, the 
welding of wire or strip into hoops for barrels, tubs, pails, etc.„is sup- 
planting the older forms. Numerous machines are in operation turn- 
ing out electrically welded wire fence, nnich as a loom turns out cloth. 



Smithsonian Repo't, 1904. — Thomson. 



Plate I. 




Fig. 1.— An Electric Tire-welding Machine, Made by the Thomson Electric 
Welding Company, Lynn, Mass. 




Fig. 2.— An Electric Welding Machine for Iron and Steel Pipe. 



Smithsonian Report, 1 9C4 — Thomson 



Plate II. 




Another Form of Hoop or Tire Welding Machine. 



KLECTRTC WET>DTNG DEVELOPMENT. 283 

III pipe beiuliiig and coilin<2;, as in uniting ordinary lengths of 
pipe into very long lengths without screw joints, the electric weld 
has a special adaptahility. Hundreds of miles of street-railway rails 
have been welded into continuous lengths and now exist in many 
cities. Where rails are bonded only the electric welder assists in the 
l)rodu('tion of bra/cd oi- welded bonds. It is a wide range bctwecMi 
buckles, typewriter bars, and umbrella rods to the local annealing 
of armor plates on warships, but the electric welder covers that 
range. It is no wider, however, than that from fine Avires of a 
diameter of one-fiftieth of an inch up to heavy steel wire for the 
armor of submarine cables, and again up to street-railway rail joints. 

In recent years elaborate machinery for the actual production on 
a large scale of steel tubing from flat stock or skelp by the progres- 
sive welding of a longitudinal seam has been put into operation. 
The long strip, or skelp, is rolled up so that its edges meet. In this 
condition it enters between the welding rolls, which pass the heating 
(uirrent locally across the edges to weld them, and the operation is 
progressive from one end of the })ipe to the other as it is fed into 
the machine. The result is a pipe of which the walls are of even 
thickness and the diameter uniform. This pipe can be afterwards 
drawn, if needed, to the exact size desired. Very thin pipe can be 
made of steel, the longitudinal seam or weld in which is a delicate 
bead along the length — a beautiful product, for the extreme localiza- 
tion of the heat has allowed preservation of surface and finisli of the 
metal outside the joint. Taper tubes, such as are nsed for bicycle 
front forks and the like, are easily made. 

A similar machine for large work has lately been constructed, and 
by its use large diameter tubes or shells, up to 10 inches in diameter, 
are produced from sheet steel or iron. The illustration shows such a 
machine ready for operation. The welding transformer is at the top 
of the machine, and the secondary circuit has for its terminals two 
copper rolls inclined to each other on two nearly horizontal shafts 
adjustable in position over the work. Below are the guide rolls, one 
on each side on vertical shafts, and between these the shell to be 
welded passes with its meeting edges uppermost and in contact wnth 
the copper contact rolls. As the metal shell passes along under these 
rolls the joint is progressively heated by the welding current crossing 
it, and the weld is finished by the side pressure of the guiding rolls. 
The process, as well as the resulting welded })r()duct, is unique. 

For a considerable time past welding nuichines have been applied 
to the production of bands or tires from stock of varying width, thick- 
ness, and sectional foi-m. More recently the practice of welding plain 
bands or cylindrical I'ings, and afterwards rolling them with the form 
of section desired, has been largely adopted ; such as, for example, in 



284 ELECTRIC WELDING DEVELOPMENT. 

the production of automobile Avheel rims, bands for roving cans, stove 
rings, etc. 

Very dilferent from this is the formation of crank shafts, now 
demanded in great numbers for engines of automobiles. These are 
made from drop forgings and round shaft stock by uniting the pieces, 
as in the annexed sketch, and afterwards lightly machining and fin- 
ishing the approximately correct shaft, as produced b}^ welding. No 
legend. 

Besides the banding of wire or strip of such comparatively frail 
containing vessels as barrels or pails, the electric weld finds applica- 
tion in the forming and capping of 
metal vessels for withstanding high 
pressures, such as soda-water cylin- 
i""" ders, carbonic-acid reservoirs, and 
steel bottles for nitrous oxide gas.' 

One of the most interesting of the more recent applications is that 
of welding hollow steel handles on cutlery, such as table knives and 
forks. The operation is remarkable for the celerity and neatness of 
the work, the articles being finished by silver-plating and polishing, 
as usual. The hollow handle is drawn from thin steel, and united to 
the knife blade or to the fork, as the case may be, in a special welding 
machine, there being no brazing or other operation of joint-forming 
required. There is, indeed, no limit to the delicacy of the work Avhich 
may be undertaken, provided only the welding ajjparatus is equally 
refined. 

In the simpler types of electric welders, especially where the 
machine is designed to do a variety of work, perhaps of different 
forms or sizes of pieces, or both, the adjustments are usually manual; 
that is to say, the operations of clamping the pieces and applying the 
electric current and mechanical pressure are each controlled by the 
operator. In other cases, such as in the welding of copper or alumi- 
nium wire, the machine is, at least in part, automatic. The pressure 
is automatically applied and the welding current is cut off automat- 
ically upon the completion of the joint; the placing of the pieces in 
the clamps and the sAvitching on of the current is, in this case, manu- 
ally performed. 

In other, more completely automatic, types, particularly adapted 
for rapid repetition of the same operation on identical pieces, the 
machine runs continuously, and its sequence of actions is definitely 
determined by the construction. In such cases a source of power, as 
by a belt, drives the machine, the movement so imparted having the 
effect of clamping the pieces as they are fed to the machine, putting 
on the current, applying the pressure, cutting off the current, and 
releasing the pieces. 

The mechanism which has been developed for these purposes dis- 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Thomson. 



Plate III 



•iiiiiiiinii" 
'iiiiiiiiiiinl 



iiiiiiiiii' 



""')" 



'■"iii!'i"iir' '"" 



iiiii,. 




■iV'n 



ilMlit'. uiuuiJUiiUJJii' 



■'■■TiHiiiiii^r 
^■■'iiiiiiiiiir 

••Tn:lTi!lflllMlllM 



Fig. 1.— Rolls of Electrically Welded Wire Fence of Varying Width and Mesh. 




Fig. 2.— An Electric Chain-welding Machine. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Thomson. 



Plate IV. 




Electric Rail Welding on Street Railways, as Practiced by the Lorain Steel 
Company, Johnstown, Pa., and London. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Thomson. 



Plate V. 




A Welding Machine for Large Tubes or Shells up to 16 Inches in Diameter, 
Used by the Standard Welding Company, of Cleveland, Ohio. 



ELKCTHIC WKLDING DEVELOPMENT. . 285 

jjla^'s, ill iimny ins(<inc('s, iniich iiigemiity. In tlu'se luachines the 
<liity of Ihc attondant is limitod to the iiiei-c phicingj of the pieces 
between (he ehuui)ing jaws, just before they are chinijjed, and the 
work is characterized b}' rapidity and by uniformity of the results. 

More completely automatic still are machines for the production 
of wire fencino^ and for the consecutive wehling of the links of 
chains. In these tlie operation, once started, goes on uninterruptedly 
so long as (he work holds out or until the stock luidergoing opera- 
tion is exhausted. In tlie fence machines, of which 15 are now in 
existence, galvanized iion Avires are fed from reels parallel to one 
another, at distances apart depending on the mesh desired. These 
nuiy correspond to the warp in weaving. Transversely to these and 
at intervals corresponding to the mesh selected are fed wires, cut 
from a reel, Avhich transverse wires are the verticals in the finished 
fence itself and correspond to the weft in weaving. A series of 
small welders are automatically brought into operation to weld each 
transverse wire to the longitudinals where the two cross. This done, 
the w^eb so formed moves forward, the operation repeats itself, and 
so on continuously. The welding is in this case practically instan- 
taneous, and all of the movements of the machine are entirely 
automatic. 

In this way it is possible for a single nuichine to turn out many 
thousands of feet of fencing per day with a width of mesh from 2 
or 3 inches up. Less wire is used than where the joints are made by 
twists or loops, and the stability or fixedness of position of such 
joints as are made is much more assured. Figure 1, plate iii, will 
give some idea of the neatness of this product of the electric welding 
loom. 

A\Tiile in most cases of electric welding the joint forms what is 
jcnown as a butt w^eld, with a burr or extension of metal at the joint, 
which, according to conditions, is either allowed to remain or is 
forged down or dressed off, there is no difficulty in making lap welds 
electrically, and some of the recent work of the electric welder is of 
that character. AVhile, too, the usual welding concerns pieces of 
(he same metal, as iron to iron, steel to steel, or copper to copper, 
combination wields of different metals are made with facility in many 
cases, as when brass and iron are united. 

In the working of high-carbon steels the usual precautions to 
prevent burning or injury to the metal are, of course, required; but, 
on account of the delicacy of heat control, they are more easily 
adopted. 

Quite recently automatic chain welders have been put into use, and 
electrically-welded chain work will probably soon attain an impor- 
tance not second to the other principal applications wdiich have been 
brieflv described. 



THE HISTORY OF SOINIE DTS(X)VEEIES OF 
ITlOTOCniAPHY." 



By RoREKT Hunt. 



A. Heliograph Y — I'iie Puockss of Monsieur Niepce. 

Monsieur Niepce was tlie first iiKjiiirer who appears to have pro- 
duced j)ei"ni!ineiit ])ictiires by the influence of the sun's rays. This 
process — lieliogra])liy — is in many respects peculiar', which renders it 
necessary, although his preparation was only acted on by an exposure 
of many hours to full sunshine, to give a jiarficular account of it; 
the more so, as some points of considerable interest require further 
elucidation. 

The substance employed by Monsieur Niepce was asplialtum, or 
bitumen of Jiidea. He thus directs its preparation : '' I about half 
fill a wineglass with this pulverized bitumen; I pour upon it, drop 
by drop, the essential oil of lavender '' until the bitumen is completely 
saturated. I afterwards add as nnich more of the essential oil as 
causes the whole to stand about three lines above the mixture, which 
is then covered and submitted to a gentle heat until the essential oil is 
fully impregnated with the coloring nuitter of the bitumen. If this 
varnish is not of the required consistency it must be allowed to evap- 
orate sloAvly, without heat, in a shallow dish, care being taking to 
protect it fron.i moisture, by which it is injured, and at last decom- 
posed. In Avinter or during rainy weather the precaution is doubly 
necessary. A tablet of plated silver or well cleaned and warm glass 
is to be highly polished, on which a thin coating of the varnish is to 
be applied cold, with a light roll of very soft skin. This will impart 
to it a fine vermilion color and cov(m- it with a vei'v thin and e([ual 
coating. The plate is then j^laced upon heated iron, which is Avrapped 
around with sevci-al folds of jjaper, from which by this method all 
moisture had been previously expelled. When the varnish has ceased 
to simmer the plate is withdrawn from the heat and left to cool and 

a Revised by T. W. Siiiillie. U. S. National Museum, from Chapters II-IV of 
A Manual of Photography, by Robert Hunt. Fourth (Mlition. London .md 
Glasgow, 1854. Octavo, pp. ^^2i^. 

6 The English oil of lavender is too expensive for this iinr])()so. An article 
sold as the French oil of lavender, redrawn, is very muoli cheai)or and answers 
iu every respect as well, if not better. 

287 



288 THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY 

dry in a gentle temperature and protected from a damp atmosphere. 
In this part of the operation a light disk of metal with a handle in 
the center should be held before the moutli in order to condense the 
moisture of the I)reatli." 

The plate thus prei)ai'ed is now in a fit state for use and may be 
immediately fixed in the correct focus of the camera. After it has 
been exposed a sufficient length of time for receiving the impression 
a very faint outline alone is visible. The next operation is to bring 
out the hidden picture, which is accomplished b}^ a solvent. 

This solvent must be carefully adapted to the purposes for which it 
is designed. It is difficult to fix with certainty the proportions of its 
components, but in all cases it is better that it be too weak than too 
strong. In the former case the image does not come out strongly; in 
the latter it is completely destroyed. The solution is {ireparecl of one 
part — not by weight, but volume — of the essential oil of lavender, 
poured upon ten ])arts, by measure also, of oil of white petroleum. 
The mixture, whicli is first milky, becomes clear in two or three days. 
This compound will act until it becomes saturated with the asphaltum, 
which is readily distinguished l)y an opaque appearance and dark 
brown color. A tin vessel somewhat larger than the photographic 
tablet and 1 inch deep must be provided. This is to have as much 
of the solvent in it as will cover the plate. The tablet is plunged 
into the solution, and the operator, observing it by reflected light, 
begins to see the images of the objects to which it has been exposed 
slowly unfolding their forms, though still veiled by the gradually 
darkening supernatant fluid. The plate is then lifted out and held 
in a vertical [)Osition till as much as possible of the solvent has been 
allowed to drop away. When the dropping has ceased, we proceed to 
the last, and not the least important, operation of washing the plate. 
This is performed by carefully placing the tablet upon a board B (fig. 
1), fixed at a large angle in the trough A A, the supports being joined 

to it by hinges to admit of the neces- 
sary changes of inclination under 
different circumstances. Two small 
blocks, not thicker than the tablet, 
are fixed on the board on which the 
l)late rests. Water must now be 
slowly poured upon the upper part 
of the board and allowed to flow 
evenly over the surface of the pic- 
1 ture. The descending stream clears 

aAvay all the solvent that may yet 
adhere to the varnish. The plate is now to be dried with great care 
by a gentle evaporation. To preserve the picture it is requisite to 
cover it up from the action of light and protect it from humidity. 




THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY. 289 

T\\v NiuMiish may bo applied iiulillci'ciitly to motals, stono, or glass, 
but iMousiciii- Niepco pivt'rrs (•()pj)('i' plated with silver. To take 
copies of eiiiira villus, a small (iiiantity of wax is dissolved in essential 
oil of lavendei' and added to the varnish ali'eady described. The en- 
<rravin_!L!:. first varnished over the back, is [)laced on the surface of the 
prepared tablet, face toward it, and then ex])osed to the action of the 
light. In the camera obscura an ex[)osure of from six to eight hours, 
varying with the intensity of the light, is re(|uired; Avhile from four 
to six hours is necessary to produce a copy of an engraving. The 
picture, in the first instance, is represented by the contrast between 
the polished silver and the varnish coating. The discoverer after- 
wards adopted a plan of darkening the silver by iodine, which ap- 
pears to have led the way to Daguerre's beautiful process. To darken 
the tablet, it was placed in a box in which some iodine was strewed 
and watched until the best effect was produced. The varnish was 
afterwards removed by spirit of wine. 

Of the use of glass plates Monsieur Niepce thus speaks : 

Two experiments in landscape upon glass, by means of the camera, gave me 
results which, although imi)erfect, appear deserving of notice, because this 
variety of application may be brought more easily to perfection, and in the end 
liecome a more interesting department of heliography. 

In one of these trials the light acted in such a way that the varnish was 
removed in proportion to the intensity with which the light had acted, and the 
jiicture exhibited a more marked gradation of tone, so that, viewed by transmit- 
ted light, the landscape produced, to a certain extent, the well-known effects of 
the diorama. 

In the second trial, on the contrary, the action of the luminous fluid having 
been more intense, the parts acted upon by the strongest lights, not having 
I'een attacked by the solvent, remained transparent. The difference of tone 
resulted from the relative thickness of the coatings of varnish. 

If this landscape is viewed by reflection in a mirror on the varnished side 
and at a certain angle, the effect is remarkably striking, while, seen by a trans- 
mitted light, it is confused and shapeless, but what is equally surprising, in this 
position the mimic tracery seems to affect the k)eal color of the objects. 

A statement that M. Niepce was enabled to engrave by light went 
the rotnid of the press; but this does not appear to have been the 
case. All that the author of heliography effected was the etching of 
the plate, after it had undergone its various processes, and the draw- 
ing was completed by the action of nitric acid in the usual manner. 
The parts of the copperplate protected by the varnish remained, of 
course, unacted on, while the other parts were rapidly attacked by the 
acid. Niepce remarks that his process can not be used during the 
winter season, as the cold and moisture render the varnish brittle and 
detach it from the glass or metal. 

]M. Niepce afterwards used a more unctuou'^ varnish, composed of 
bitumen of Judea dissolved in animal oil of Dippel. This composi- 
bM 190 i^— 19 



290 THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY. 

tioii is of much greater tenacity and higher color than the former, 
and, after being applied, it can immediately be submitted to the 
action of the light, which appears to render it solid more quickly, 
from the greater volatility of the animal oil. M. Daguerre remarks 
that this very properly diminishes still further the resources of the 
process as respects the lights of the drawings thus ol^tained. These 
processes of M. Niepce Avere much improved by M. Daguerre, who 
makes the following remarks on the subject: 

The substance wliich should be used in preference to bitumen is tlie residuum 
obtained by evaporating the essential oil of lavender, which is to be dissolved in 
alcohol and applied in an extremely thin wash. Although all bituminous and 
resinous substances are, without any exception, endowed with the same prop- 
erty — that of being affected by light — the preference ought to be given to tliose 
which are the most unctuous, because they give greater firmness to the draw- 
ings. Several essential oils lose this character when they are exposed to too 
strong a heat. 

It is not, however, from the ease with which it is decomposed that we are to 
prefer the essential oil of lavender. There are, for instance, the resins, which, 
being dissolved in alcohol and spread upon glass or metal, leave, by the evapo- 
ration of the spirit, a very white and infinitely sensitive coating. But this 
greater sensibility to light, caused by a quicker oxidation, renders also the 
images obtained nmch more liable to injury from the agent by which they were 
created. They grow faint and disappear altogether when exposed but for a few 
months to the sun. The residuum of the essential oil of lavender is more 
effectually fixed, but even this is not altogether uninfluenced l)y the eroding 
effects of a direct exposure to the sun's light. 

The essence is evaporated in a shallow dish by heat till the resinous residuum 
acquires such a consistency that when cold it rings on being struck with the 
point of a knife, and flies off in pieces when separated from the dish. A small 
quantity of this material is afterwards to be dissolved in alcohol or ether ; the 
solution formed sliould be transparent and of a lemon-yellow color. The clearer 
the solution the more delicate will be the coating on the plate. It nuist not, 
however, be too thin, because it would not thicken or spread out into a white 
coat, indispensable requisites for obtaining good effects in photographic designs. 
The use of the alcohol or ether is to faeilitate the application of tlie resin under 
a very attenuated form, the spirit being entirely evaporated before the light 
effects its delineations on the tablet. In order to obtain greater vigor the metal 
ought to have an exquisite polish. There is more charm altout sketches taken 
on glass plates, and, above all, much greater delicacy. 

I'efore conuuencing operations the experimenter must carefully clean his 
glass or metal plate. P"'or this purpose emery reduced to an inii)alpal)le ])o\vder 
mixed with alcohol may be used, ai)plying it by means of cotton wool, but this 
part of the process nuist always be concluded by dry polisliing, that no trace of 
moisture may reinain on the tablet. Tlie plate of metal or glass l)eiug thus pre- 
pared, in order to supply the wash or coating it is licld in one hand and with 
llic otlier tlie solution is to be i)oured over it from a flasU or liottle liaving a 
wide mouth, so that it may flow rai)idly and cover tlie whole surface. It is at 
lirst necessary to hold the plate a little iix-lined, but as soon as th(> solution 
is poured on and has ceased to flow freely it is raised i)erpendicularly. Tlie 
finger is then passed l)ehind and b<'low tlie i)late in order to draw off a jiortion 
of the li(|uid, wliicli, tending always to .ascend, would double the thickness of 
the covering. Tlie finger must be wiped each time, and be passed very ra])idly 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Hunt. 



Plate I. 




Joseph Nicephore Niepce. 
Original lu'liotypf in V. S. Xationiil Musomii. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Hunt. 



Plate II 




From a Permanent Photograph Made by Joseph Nicephore Niepce in 1524. 

Original i)riiit in l'. S. Xalidiial .MustMiiii. 



THE HISTORY OF SOMK DISCOVKRIES OF PIIOTOCR M'll V. 2U1 

aloii.i; llio whole Iciiirtli of (lie plate from liclow and on tlic side (.ppositc the 
coatiii;,'. When the liiiuid has ceased to run. the plate is dried in the darl<. 'I'he 
eoatinj,' heinj; well (h-ied it is to he jilaeed in tlie camera (.hscnra. The time 
reiiuired to lu-ocure a photographic copy of a landscaite is from seven to ei^dit 
hours, hut sin.<,'le monuments strom;I.v ilhmiinatcd Iiy tlic sun oi- \ci-.\ l.riixht in 
tliemselves are cojiied in al)out ilww liours. 

Wlien ojierating on jjlass It is necessary, in order to increase tiie litrlit, to 
]>lace the phite upon a piece of jiaper, with yreat care that the coimection is 
perfect over every part, as otiierwise confusion is produced in the design hy 
i mperf ect reflection. 

It frecniently happens th;it wlien the i)late is removed from tlie camera tliere 
is uo trace of any imajre upon its surface. It is tlierefore necessary to use an- 
other process to hrinj; out the liidden desifjn. 

To do this, i)rovide a tin vessel larger than the tahlet, havinj? all around a 
ledge or horder ;">() nun. (2 Knglisli inches) in depth. Let this he three- 
fourths full of th(> oil of petroleum. Fix your tahlet hy the hack to n piece of 
wood which completely covers the vessel and place it so that the tahlet, face 
downwards, is o^-er but- not touchiui,' the oil. The vai)or of tiie petroleum pene- 
trates the coatins of the plate in those parts on whicli the li.i,dit has acted 
feehly — that is. in the portions which correspond to the shadows — imparting to 
them a transparency as if notliing were tliere. On tlie contr:iry. tlie points of 
the resinous coating on which light has acted, having l)een rendered imjiervious 
to the vapor, remain unchanged. 

The design must he examined from time to tinu' and withdrawn as soon as 
a vigorous effect is obtained. By urging the action too far even the strongest 
lights will be attacked by the vapor and disapi)ear. to the destruction of the 
jiiece. 

It nni}^ perhaps appear to .some that I have needlessly given the 
particulars of a process, now superseded by others, possessing the 
most infinite sensibility, j)rodii('ing in a few minutes a better effect 
than was obtained by the heliographic process in several hours. 
There are, however, so many curious facts connected witli the action 
of light on these resins that no treatise on photography could l)e 
considered complete without some description of thein: and this 
process is now revived with a view to the i)r()(luction of etchings 
directly from nature. 

M. Daguerre remarks that numerous experiments tried bv him 
with these resinous preparations of M. Niepce j)rove that bglit can 
not fall upon a body without leaving traces of decomposition; and 
they also demonstrate that these bodies possess the power of renewing 
in darkness what has been lost by luminous action, jn-ovided total 
decomposition has not been effected. This henograi)hic jirocess nnist 
be regarded as the earliest successful atl(iii|)l at lixing on solid tablets 
the images of the camera obscura and at dexcloping a doiinant image. 

B. Talbot's Piionxiioxic Dkawinmjs. 

On tlie 81st of January, 18:51), six ntonths prior to the j^ublication of 
M.' Daguerre 's process, Mr. Fox Talbot connniuiicated to the Royal 
Society his photographic discoveries, and in February he gave to the 



292 THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY. 

world an accomit of the process he had devised for preparing; a sensi- 
tive paper for photographic drawings. In the memoir read before 
the Eoyal Society he states : 

In the spring of 1834 I began to put in practice a method which I had devised 
some time previously for employing to purposes of utility the very curious 
l)roperty which has been long known to chemists to be possessed by nitrate of 
silver, namely, its discoloration when exposed to the violet rays of light." 

From this it appears that the English philosopher had pursued his 
researches ignorant of what had been done by others on the Continent. 
It is not necessary to enlarge in this place on the merits of the two 
disco\'eries of Talbot and Daguerre, but it may be well to show the 
kind of sensitiveness to Avhich Mr. Talbot had arrived at this early 
period in his preparations, which will be best done l)y a brief extract 
from his own communication. 

" It is so natural," says this experimentalist, " to associate the 
idea of labor with great complexity and elaborate detail of execution 
that one is struck more at seeing the thousand florets of an agrostis 
depicted with all its capillary branchlets (and so accurately that 
none of all this multitude shall want its little bivalve calyx, requir- 
ing to be examined through a lens), than one is by the large and 
simple leaf of an oak or a chestnut. But in truth the difficulty is in 
both cases the same. The one of these takes no more time to execute 
than the other; for the object which would take the most skilful 
artist days or weeks of labor to trace or to copy is affected by the 
boundless powers of natural chemistry in the space of a few seconds." 
And again, " to give some more definite idea of the rapidity of the 
process, I will state that after various trials the nearest valuation 
Avhich I could make of the time necessary for obtaining the picture 
of an object so as to have pretty distinct outlines, Avhen I employed 
the full sunshine, was half a second." This is to be understood of 
the paper then used by Mr. Talbot for taking objects by means of 
the solar microscope. 

In the Philosophical Magazine, Mr. Fox Talbot published the 
first account of his photogenic experiments. The term was intro- 
duced by this gentleman, and his experiments can not be better 
described than in his own words : 

In order to make what may be called ordinary photogenic paper, I select, in 
the first place, paper of a good firm (luality and smooth surface. I do not know- 
that anything answers better than superfine writing paper. I dip it into a weak 
solution of common salt and wipe it dry, by which the salt is uniformly distrib- 
uted throughout its substance. I then spread the solution of nitrate of silver 
on one surface only, and dry it at the fire. The solution should not be saturated, 
but six or eight times diluted with water. When dry the paper is fit for use. 

I have found by experiment that there is a certain proportion between the 



a He no doubt means the chloride. — T. W. S. 



THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY, 293 

quantity of salt ami that of the solution of silver which answers best and 
gives the niaxiniuiu elTect. If the strenjith of the salt is augmented beyond 
this jioiiit the effect diminishes, and, in certain cases, becomes exceedingly 
small. 

This pajier, if properly made, is very useful for all photographic puri)Oses. 
For example, nothing can be more perfect than the images it gives of leaves 
and flowers, especially with a summer sun, the light passing through the leaves 
delineates every ramiflcation of their nerves. 

Now, suppose we take a sheet thus prepared and \\'ash it with a saturated 
solution of salt and then dry it. We shall find (especially if the paper is kept 
some weeks before trial is made) that its sensibility is greatly diminished, and 
in some cases seems quite extinct. But if it is again washed with a liberal 
quantity of the solution of silver, it becomes again sensible to light, and even 
more so than it was at first. In this way, by alternately washing the paper 
with salt and silver, and drying it l)etween times, I have succeeded in increas- 
ing its sensibility to the de.gree that is requsite for receiving the images of the 
camera obscura. 

In conducting this operation it will be found that the results are sometimes 
more and sometimes less satisfactory in consequence of small and accidental 
variations in the proportions employed. It happens sometimes that the chloride 
of silver is disposed to draken of itself without any exposure to light. This 
shows that the attempt to give it sensibility has been carried too far. The object 
is to approach to this condition as near as possible without reaching it, so that 
the substance may be in a state ready to yield to the slightest extraneous force, 
such as the feeble impact of the violet rays when nuich attenuated. Having, 
therefore, prepared a number of sheets of paper with chemical proportions 
^■lightly ditferent from one another, let a piece be cut from each, and, having 
been duly marked or numliered, let them be placed side by side in a very weak 
diffused light for a quarter of an hour. Then, if any one of them, as frequently 
happens, exhibits a marked advantage over its competitors, I select the paper 
which bears the corresponding number to be placed in the camera obscura. 

The increased sensitiveness given to paper by alternate ablutions 
of saline and argentine washes, the striking differences of effect pro- 
duced by accidental variations of the proportions in which the chem- 
ical ingredients are apj)lied, and the spontaneous change which takes 
place, even in the dark, on the more sensitive varieties of the paper, 
are all subjects of great interest, which demand further investiga- 
tion than they have ever j^et received, and which, if followed out, 
promise some most important explanations of chemcial phenomena 
at present involved in uncertainty, particidarly those which appear 
to show the influence of time, an element not sufliciently taken into 
account, in overcoming the weaker affinities. Few fields of research 
promise a greater measure of reward than these. Already the art 
of making sun pictures has led to numy very important physical dis- 
coveries, but most of the phenomena are yet involved in obscurity. 

C. Daguerreotype — The Drsco\'ERV ov M. Daguerre. 

. It has already been stated that Niepce and Daguerre, having by 
accident discovered they were prosecuting experiments of the same 
kind, entered into partnership. On the 5th of December, 1829, 



294 THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY. 

Niepce communicated to Daguerre tlie particulars of the process 
employed by him, which has been already described (Chap. II) urder 
the term " heliography." Niepce died in July, 1833, but he has left 
some letters which clearly show that he had been a most industrious 
investigator. One extract appears of particular importance. " 1 re- 
peat it, sir," he says, " I do not see that we can hope to derive any 
advantage from this process (the use of iodine) more than from any 
other method which depends upon the use of metallic oxides," etc. 
Again, he says, "a decoction of Thlaspi (Shepherd's purse), fumes 
of phosphorus, and particularl}^ of sulphur, as acting on silver in the 
same way as iodine, and caloric, produce the same effects by oxidizing 
the metal, for from this cause proceeded in all these instances their 
extreme sensibilitly to light. After the death of M. Nicephore Niepce 
a new agreement was entered into between his son, M. Isidore Niepce, 
and Daguerre that they should pursue their investigations, in common 
and share the profits, Avhatever they might eventually prove to be. 

The discovery of Daguerre was reported to the world early in Jan- 
uary, 1839, but the process by which his beautiful pictures were pro- 
duced was not made known until the July following, after a bill was 
passed securing to himself a pension for life of 6,000 francs, and to 
M. Isidore Niepce, the son of Monsieur Niepce above mentioned, a 
pension for life of 4,000 francs, with onedialf in reversion to their 
widows. It was regretted that after the French Government had 
thus liberally purchased the secret of the process of the daguerreo- 
type for " the glory of endowing the world of science and art with 
one of the most surprising discoveries that honor their native land," 
on the argument that " the invention did not admit of being secured 
by patent, for as soon as published all might avail themselves of its 
advantages," that its author should have guarded it by a patent right 
in England. 

From the primary importance of this very beautiful branch of the 
photographic art I shall devote some space to a description of the 
original process, reserving for the division devoted to the manij^ula- 
tory details the description of each improvement which has been pub- 
lished having any practical advantage, either by lessening the labor 
required or reducing the expense. 

The pictures of the daguerreotype are executed upon thin sheets 
of silver plated on copper. Although the copper serves principally 
to support the silver foil, the combination of the two metals appears 
to tend to the perfection of the effect. It is essential that the silver 
sliould be very pure. The thickness of the copper should be sufficient 
to nuiintain perfect flatness and a smooth surface, so that the images 
may not be distorted by any Avarping or unevenness. Unnecessary 
thickness is to be avoided on account of the weight. 

The process is divided by Daguerre^ into five operations. The first 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Hunt. 



Plate III. 




H. Fox Talbot. 
Fnmi orij^inal in l'. .^. National Mnsenn 




•& 



ll 0-3 
o 'S a 



i 2^ 






•rill'; iiis'i'ouN' oi'' soMi'', i»iS('o\'i'i{ii':s oi' nioiocit \nn . L".>r» 



coiisisls in cK'niiinu' ;iii(l | lol ish in;' llic |t|;ilc to lit it for rcfci \ inn- lli*' 
s(Misi(i\i' (•()!i(in<^' <>n wliicli (he lij^lii forms llic |ii<(iin-. The second 
is llic ronnalion of llic scnsili\c iodnrcl of sihcr (imt tlic Imcc of llic 
liiltlct. Tlic third is tlic ;nljll^^tilll| n\' tlic plnlc in the ciiiiicim ohsciini 
I'oi' Ihc pnrposc of receiving' Ihc iln|)^cs^^ion. The Toni'lh is the lii-iii;i,' 
in<i" oiil of Ihc pholof^Tiiphic picliirc, which is iii\ isihic w hen Ihc philc 
is lidicn iVoni ihc c:iiiiei:i. llic li I'l h ;iimI iiist o|)ci';ilion is lo i'cnio\i> 
(li(^ scnsilivt' co;ilin<j,', iinti Ihiis |n-c\t'nl lluil sns<'c|)l ihilit v (d" ch.incc 
iiiidci" linninons inllncnec which woidd otherwise exist and (|iii(kly 
(lest rov the |)ict lire. 

First o/xi'd/loii. A sniMll |>hi:d of olive oil, sonic iiiicly curded col 
(on, a iniislin l)ii<i,' ol lincly lc\i^;ilc(l piimicc, :i phiiil of nitric acid, 
diluted in the proporl ion (d" I |iail of acid to Hi parts (d' water, ar<' 
rcipiircil lor this operation. 'Hie operator niiisl also proviilc hiinseir 
with a small spirit lamp and an iron wire frame, upon which Ihc 
plate is to lie phu'cd w hile liciiii.'' healed oxer the lamp. 

The plate hein^' lirsl po\vdcr<'d oNcr with piiinicc. Iiy shakinii" Ihc 
l»a<;, a piece of col(<tii dip|>cd into the oli\c oil is then car<d'nlly 
riililicd o\iM' it with a cont iniioiis circular motion, commciicin^ Irom 
the center. \\ hen the plate is well polished, il imist lie cleaned hy 
[)()\vderiii«4' it well oxer with pmnice and then rnliliin^ it with dry 
<'otton, alwa\s roimdiiii;' and crossiii<^' Ihc st rolv<'s, il iM-iiii^' impossible 
to ohtaiii a true surface l»y any other motion (d" the hand. Ihc sur- 
face (d' the plate is now nilthed all o\cr with a pledget of cotton, 
sli;^hll\ wcIIcmI willi the diliilcil nili'ic acid. h're(|iicnl ly chaiii.'c the 
cotton and k<'ep riihlHiia Uri kly that the acid may hi' et|iially dif- 
fiise»l o\cr the sil\t'r. as, if il is pei-iiiilleil to run into drops, it slains 

I he laltle. It will he seen w hen I he 
acid has hccii propcrl\ dill'iisc(l 
from t he a ppea ra iwc of a thin lilm 
e<|iia lly spread over t he : in face. 
It is then to he clean<>d oil with a 
little pumice and dry colloii. 

The plate is now placed on the 
wire frame, the siKcr upward, and 
the pint lamp held in the hand 
and iiioNcd ahoiil hclow it, so that 
the Maine pla\s upon the copper. 
This is coiitiiiiied for live minnles, 
when a while coaliii/.^ is forine(l .all 
over till' iirfacc of the si|\cr; the 
lamp is then withdi'awn. .V charcoal lire may he ll^ed instead 
of the lamp. The plate i^ now cooled suddenly \>\ placing il on a 
mass of iiM'tal or a stone Moor. When peidcclly cold it is a<!,ain 
polisiied with dry colloii and piimice. Il is necessai'y Ihal acid he 





296 



THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY. 



again applied two or three times in the manner before directed, the 
dry pumice being powdered over the plate each time and polished 
off gently with dry cotton. Care must be taken not to breathe upon 
the plate or touch it with the fingers, for the slightest stain upon the 
surface will be a defect in the drawing. It is indispensable that the 
last operation with the acid be performed imme- 
diately before it is intended for use. Let every 
particle of dust be removed by cleaning all the 
edges, and the back also, with cotton. After 
the first polishing the plate C is fixed on a 
board by means of four fillets, B B B B, of 
plated copper. (Fig. 3.) To each of these are 
8 soldered two small projecting pieces, wdiich 

hold the tablet near the corners; and the whole 
is retained in a proper position by means of screws, as represented 
at D D D D. 

Second operaf ion. —It is necessary for this operation, which is 




b3= 





really the most important of all, that a box similar to figures 4 and 5 
oe provided. Figure 4 represents a section supposed to pass down 
the middle of the apparatus by the line A B in figure 5, which repre- 
sents the box as seen from above. C is a small lid which accurately 
fits the interior and divides the boxes into two chambers. It is kept 
constantly in its place when the box is not in use, the purpose of it 
being to concentrate the vapor of the iodine that it may act more 
readily ui)on the plate when it is exposed to it. D is the little cap- 
sule in which tlie iodine is placed, which is covered with the ring J, 
upon which is stretched a piece of fine gauze, by which the particles 
of iodine are prevented from rising and staining the plate, while the 
vapor, of course, passes freely through it. E is the l)oard with the 
plate attached, which rests on the four smaller projecting pieces F, 



THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PIIOTOGR.VPHY. 297 

figiirb 5, G is the lid of the box, which is kept closed, except when 
the plate is reinovcil or inserted. II represents the supports for the 
cover C; K K, tapering sides all ronnd, forming a funnel-shaped box 
within. 

To {)re})are the ])late: The cover C being taken out, the cup D i.s 
charged with a suilicient quantity of iodine, broken into snudl pieces, 
and covered with the gauze »I. The board E is now. with the plate 
attached, placed face dowuAvard in its proj)er ])osition and the box 

carefully closed. 

In this position the plate remains until the vapor of the iodine has 
produced a definite golden-yellow color — nothing more or less. If 
the oi)eration is prolonged beyond the point at which this effect is 
produced, a violet color is assumed, which is much less sensitive to 
light, and if the yellow coating is too pale the picture jDroduced will 
prove very faint in all its parts. The time for this can not be fixed, 
as it depends entirely on the temperature of the surrounding air. Xo 
artificial heat must be applied, unless in the case of elevating the 
temperature of an apartment in which the operation may be going on. 
It is also important that the temperature of the inside of the box 
should be the same as it is without, as otherwise a dej^osition of 
moisture is liable to take place over the surface of the plate. It is 
well to leave a portion of the iodine always in the box, for, as it is 
slowl}^ vaporized, it is absorbed by the wood, and when required it 
is given out over the more extended surface-more equally and with 
greater rapidity. 

As, according to the season of the year, the time for producing 
the required effect may vary from five minutes to half an hour or 
more, it is necessary, from time to time, to inspect the plate. This 
is also necessary to see if the iodine is acting equally on every part 
of the silver, as it sometimes happens that the color is sooner pro- 
duced on one side than on the other, and the plate, wdien such is the 
case, must be turned one quarter round. The plate must be inspected 
in a darkened room, to which a faint light is admitted in some indi- 
rect way, as by a door a little open. The board being lifted from the 
box Avith both hands, the operator turning the plate tow^ard him 
rapidly, observes the color. If too pale, it must be returned to the 
box; but if it has assumed the violet color it is useless, and the whole 
jDrocess must be again gone through. 

From description, this operation nmy api)ear very difficult, but 
wdth a little practice the precise interval necessary to produce the 
best effect is pretty easily guessed at. When the proper yellow^ color 
is produced, the plate must be put into a frame, which fits the camera 
obscura, and the doors are instantly closed upon it to prevent the 



298 THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY. 

access of light. Tlio figures represent this frame, figure G, witli the 
doors, B B, closed on the plate, and figure 7 Avith the doors opened by 
the half circles A A. D D are stops by which the doors are fastened 
until the moment when the plate is required for use. The third 






"1 


' B 


B 


1 


J] — J 




operation should, if possible, immediately succeed the second. The 
longest interval between them should not exceed an hour, as the 
iodine and silv^er lose their requisite photogenic properties." It is 
necessary to observe that the iodine ought never to be touched with 
the fingers, as we are very liable to injure the plate by touching it 
Avith the hands thus stained. 

Third operation. — The third operation is the fixing of the j)late at 
the proper focal distance from the lens of the camera obscura and 

placing the camera itself 
in the right position for 
taking the vicAV we desire. 
Figure 8 is a perpendicular 
section, lengthwise, of Da- 
guerre's camera. A is a 
ground glass by which the 
focus is adjusted. It is 
then removed and the pho- 
tographic plate substituted, 
as in C (fig. 0) . B is a mir- 
ror for observing the effects of objects and selecting the best points 
of view. It is inclined at an angle of 45° by means of the support 
L. To adjust the focus, the mirror is lowered and the piece of 
ground glass. A, used. The focus is easily adjusted by sliding the 
box I) out or in, as represented in the i)late. When the focus is 
adjusted, it is retained in its place by means of the screw II. The 
object glass J is achromatic and })eriscoi)i('. Its diameter is about 1 
inch, and its focal distance rather more than 14 inches. M is a stop 

a This is contrary to the experience of the author of this vohime, and Doctor 
Draper, of New York, states that he has found the jilates imi>rove by keeping 
a few hours before they aro usod, and M. Claudet states that even after a 
day or twx) the sensibility of the phites is not impaired. 




Smithsonian Report, 1904.— Hunt. 



Plate V. 




L. J. M. Daguerre. 

From original (hiKuerreotype by Meiide Brotlicrs, drpo^itiMi in the \\ S. Xationiil Mns.-nin bv 
Mrs. .Sarah M. M. Valentine. 



THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY, 299 




a short (lisliincc froin the lens. {\w object of which is to cut otf all 
those raj's of li<;ht which do not come directly from the object to 
which the camera is directed. This instrument reverses the objects, 
that Avhich is to the rit,dit in nature being to the left in the photo- 

grai)h. This can be remedied by using a 
mirror outside, as K J, in figure 1). This 
arrangement, however, reduces the quan- 
tity of light and increases the time of the 
operation one-third. It will, of course, 
I)e ad()[)ted only when there is time to 
spare. 

After having placed the camera in 
front of the landscape or any object of 
which we desire the representation, our 
first attention must be to adjust the 
plate at such a distance from the lens 
that a neat and sharply defined picture 
is produced. This is, of course, done by 
the obscured glass. The adjustment being 
satisfactorily made the glass is removed 
and its place supplied by the frame con- 
»• taining the prepared plate, and the 

whole secured by screws. The doors are 
now opened by means of the half circles and the plate exposed to 
receive the picture. The length of time necessary for the production 
of the best effect, varying with the quantity of light, is a matter 
which requires the exercise of considerable judgment, particularly as 
no impression is visible upon the tablet when it is withdrawn from 
the camera. At Paris this varies from three to thirty minutes. The 
most favorable time is from 7 to ;^ o'clock. A drawing which in the 
months of June and July may be taken in three or four minutes will 
i-equire five or six in May or August, seven or eight in April or 
September, and so on, according to the season. Objects in shadow, 
even during the brightest weather, will recjuire twenty minutes to 
be correctly delineated. From \n hat has been stated it will be evident 
that it is impossi]>le to fix with any precision the exact length of 
time necessary' to obtain photographic designs, but by practice we 
soon learn to calculate the required time with considerable correct- 
ness. The latitude is, of course, a fixed element in this calculation. 
In the sunny climes of Italy and southern Fi-ance these designs may 
be obtained much more pronii)tly than in the uncertain climate of 
Great Britain. It is very important that the time necessary is not 
exceeded — prolonged solarization has the effect of blackening the 



300 THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY. 



plate, and this destroys the clearness of the design. If the operator 
has failed in his first experiment, let him immediately commence 
Avith another plate; correcting the second trial by the first he will 
seldom fail to reproduce a good photograph. 

Fourth (jpenifion.— The apparatus required in this operation is 
represented by figure 10. A is the lid of the box ; B, a blackboard with 

grooves to receive the plate; C, cup con- 
taining a little mercury (J) : D. spirit 
lamp; F, thermometer; G, glass 
through which to inspect the operation; 
H, tablet as removed from the camera; 
I, stand for the spirit lamp. All the 
interior of this apparatus should be cov- 
ered with hard, black varnish. The 
board and the affixed plate being with- 
drawn from the camera are placed at an 
angle of about 45° within this box, the 
tablet with the picture downward, so 
that it may be seen through the glass G. 
The box being carefully closed, the 
spirit lamp is to be lighted and placed 
under the cup containing the mercury. 
The heat is to be applied until the ther- 
mometer, the bulb of which is covered 
with the mercury, indicates a tempera- 
ture of 60° C. (140° F.). The lamp is then withdrawn, and if the 
thermometer has risen rapidly, it Avill continue to rise without the 
aid of the lamp, but the elevation ought not to be allowed to exceed 
75° C. (167° F.). 

After a few minutes the image of nature nnpressed, but now in- 
visible, on the plate begins to appear. The operator assures himself 
of the progress of this development by examining the picture through 
the glass G, by a taper, taking care that the rays do not fall too 
strongly on the plate and injure the nascent images. The opera- 
tion is continued till the thermometer sinks to 45° C. (113° F.). 
When the objects have been strongly illuminated, or when the plate 
has been kept in the camera too long, it will be found that this 
operation is completed before the thermometer has fallen to 55° C. 
(131° F.). This is, however, always known by observing the sketch 
through the glass. 

After each operation the apparatus is carefully cleaned in every 
part, and in particular the strips of metal which hold the plate 
are well rubbed with pumice and water to remove the adhering 





THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY. 301 

mercury and iodiiu'. The plate niny now be deposited in the grooved 
box (tig. 11), in whicli it may be Icept, excluded from the light, 
until it is convenient to perform the last fixing operation. 

Fifth operation.— Th'i^ process has for its object the removal of 
the iodine from the plate of silver, which prevents 
the further action of the light. 

A saturated solution of common salt may be used 
for this purpose, but it does not answer nearly so 
Avell as a Aveak solution of the hyposulphite of soda. 
In the first place the plate is to be placed in a trough 
of water, plunging and withdrawing it immediately ; 
it is then to be plunged into one of the above saline 
solutions, which would act upon the drawing if it 
was not previously hardened by washing in water. 
To assist the effect of the saline washes, the plate 
must be moved to and fro, which is best done by passing a wire be- 
neath the plate. AMien the yellow color has quite disappeared the 
plate is lifted out. great care being taken that the impression is not 
touched, and it is again plunged into water. A vessel of warm dis- 
tilled water, or very pure rain water boiled and cooled, being pro- 
vided, the plate is fixed on an inclined plane and the water is poured 
in a continuous stream over the picture. The drops of water which 
may remain upon the plate must be removed by forcibly blowing 
upon it, for otherwise, in drying, they would leave stains on the 
drawings. This finishes the draAving, and it only remains to pre- 
serve the silver from tarnishing and from dust. 

The shadows in the daguerreotype pictures are represented by 
the polished surface of the silver, and the lights by the adhering 
mercury, which will not bear the slightest rubbing. To preserve 
these sketches they must be placed in cases of pasteboard Avith a 
glass coA^er over them and then framed in Avood. They are now 
unalterable by the sun's light. 

The same plate may be employed for many successiA-e trials, pro- 
vided the silver Ix- not polished through to the copper. It is very 
important, after each trial, that the mercury be remoA'ed immedi- 
atelv by polishing \Tith pumice poAvder and oil. If this ()e neg- 
lected the mercury finally adheres to the silver, and good drawings 
can not be obtained if this anuilgam is present. 

D. The Calotype. 

Early in 1840 draAvings on paper were handed about in the 
scientific circles of London and of Paris, Avhich Avere a great advance 
upon anything Avhich had been previously done. These w^ere the 
results of a ncAv process discovered by Mr. Talbot, and then at- 
tracted so much attention that Monsieur Biot made them the subject 



302 THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY. 

of a communication to the Academy of Sciences in Paris. His re- 
marks were printed in extenso in the Comptes Rendus. 

Mr. Talbot's description of his process, the patent for which is 
dated 1841, is as follows:" 

Take a sheet of the best writing paper, having a smooth surface 
and a close and even texture. The watermark, if any, should be 
cut off lest it should injure the appearance of the picture. Dis- 
solve 100 grains of crystallized nitrate of silver in G ounces of dis- 
tilled water. AA^ash the paper with this solution with a soft brush 
on one side, and put a mark on that side, whereby to know it again. 
Dry the paper cautiously at a distance from the fire, or else let 
it dry spontaneously in a dark room. AVhen dry, or nearly so, dip 
it into a solution of iodide of potassium, containing 500 grains of 
that salt dissolved in one pint of water, and let it stay two or three 
minutes in the solution. Then dip the ])aper into a vessel of water, 
dry it lightly with blotting paper, and finish drying it at a fire, 
which will not injure it even if held pretty near; or else it may be 
left to dry spontaneously. All this is best done in the evening by 
candlelight. The ])aper, so far prepared, is called iodized paper, 
because it has a uniform pale-yellow coating of iodide of silver. It 
is scarcely sensitive to light, but nevertheless it ought to be kept 
in a portfolio or drawer until wanted for use. It may be kept for 
any length of time without spoiling or undergoing any change, if 
protected from sunshine. AVhen the paper is required for use take a 
sheet of it and wash it with a liquid prepared in the following manner : 

Dissolve 100 grains of crystallized nitrate of silver in 2 ounces of 
distilled water; add to this solution one-sixth of its volume of strong 
acetic acid. Let this be called mixture A. 

Make a saturated solution of crystallized gallic acid in cold dis- 
tilled water. The quantity dissolved is verj^ small. Call this solu- 
tion B. 

Mix together the liquids A and B in equal volumes, but only a 
small quantity of them at a time, because the mixture does not keep 
long Avithout spoiling. This mixture Mr. Talbot calls the gallo- 
nitrate of silver. This solution must be washed over the iodized 
paper on the side marked, and being allowed to remain upon it for 
half a minute, it must be dipped into water, and then lightly dried 
with blotting paper. Tliis operation in particular requires the exclu- 
sion of daylight ; and although the paper thus prepared has been found 
to keep for two or three months, it is advisable to use it within a few 
hours, as it is often rendered useless by spontaneous change in the dark. 

o Mr. Talbot, by a letter in the Times of August 13, 1852, gives to the public 
the right of using any of his patents for any purpose not involving the produc- 
tion of portraits from life. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904,— Hunt. 



Plate VII 




Fig. I.^Talbot's Studio. 




Fig. 2.— Calotype Printing Outfit. 

From " I'licitiiininiature." 



TlIK IlISTOKY OF SOMK DISCOVKKIKS OK PlIOTOGKAI'f I V. 808 

Paper thus j)iv])ar('(l is oxciuisitcly scnsKive to liirlit, an exposure 
of less than a second to diii'iised daylii>:lit beinfr quite suflieient to set 
up the process of change. If a piece of tliis paper is partly covered 
and the other exposed to dayli<rht for tlie briefest possible period of 
time, a very decided impression ^vill be made.. This impression is 
latent and invisible. If. however, the j)aper be placed aside in the 
dark, it will <rradually develop itself; or it may be brought out im- 
mediately by being washed over with the <;all()-nitrate of silver, and 
held at a short distance from the fire, by which the exposed portions 
become brown, the covered ])arts remainin<>: «f their ori^jinal color. 
The pictures being thus procured, are to be fixed by washing in clean 
water and lightly drying between blotting paper, after which they 
are to be washed over with a solution of bromide of potassium con- 
taining 100 grains of that salt dissolved in 8 or 10 ounces of water; 
after a minute or two it is again to be dipped into water, and then 
finally dried. 

Such was, in all its main features, the description given by Mr. 
Talbot in his specification of his process for producing the calotype, 
or beautiful jjicture (as the term signifies). He, in a second patent, 
included the points stated in the next section. 

SECTION III. IMPROVEMENTS IN CALOTYPE. 

Such is the term employed by Mr. Talbot, and these improvements 
consist of the following particulars, constituting that gentleman's 
second claim : 

1. Removing the yellowish tint which is occasioned by the iodide 
of silver from the paper by plunging it into a hot bath of Iwposul- 
phite of soda dissolved in ten times its weight of water and heated 
nearly to the boiling point. The picture should remain in the bath 
about ten minutes and be then washed in warm water and dried. 

Although this has been included by Mr. Talbot in his specifica- 
tion, he has clearly no claim to it, since in February, 1840, Sir John 
Herschel published, in his memoir " On the chemical action of the 
rays of the solar sj^ectrum," a process of fixing with the hot hyposul- 
phite of soda. 

After undergoing the operation of fixing the picture is placed upon 
a hot iron and wax melted into the pores of the paper to increase 
its transparency. 

2. The calotype paper is rendered more sensitive by placing a 
warm ii'on behind in the camera while the light is acting upon it. 

3. The preparation of io-gallic pajjer, which is simply washing a 
sheet of iodized paper with gallic acid. In this state it will keep in 
a portfolio, and is rendered sensitive to light by washing it over 
with a solution of nitrate of silver. 

4. Iodized paper is washed with a mixture of 26 parts of saturated 



30 i THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY. 

solution of ffallic arid to 1 part of the solution of nitrate of sulvor 
ordinarily used. It can then be dried without fear of spoiling, may 
be kept a little time, and used without further preparation. 

5. The improvement of photographic drawings by exposing them 
twice the usual time to the action of sunlight. The shadows are thus 
rendered too dark and the lights are not sufficiently white. The 
drawing is then washed and plunged into a bath of iodide of 
potassium of the strength of 500 grains to each pint of w^ater and 
allowed to remain in it for one or two minutes, which makes the 
pictures brighter and its lights- assume a pale-yellow tint. After this 
it is washed and immersed in a hot bath of hyposulphite of soda 
until the pale-yellow tint is remoA'ed and the lights remain quite 
white. The pictures thus finished have a pleasing and peculiar effect. 

6. The appearance of photographic pictures is improved by wax- 
ing them and placing white or colored paper behind them. 

7. Enlarged copies of daguerreotypes and calotypes can be obtained 
by throwing magnified images of them, by means of lenses, upon 
caloty])e paper. 

8. Photographic printing. A few pages of letterpress are printed 
on one side only of a sheet of paper, which is waxed if thought 
necessary, and the letters are cut out and sorted; then, in order to 
compose a new page, a sheet of white paper is ruled with straight 
lines and the words are formed by cementing the separate letters in 
their proper order along the lines. A negative photographic copy 
is then taken, having white letters on a black ground; this is fixed, 
and any number of positive copies can be obtained. Another method 
proposed by the patentee is to take a copy by the camera obscura from 
large letters painted on a white board. 

9. Photographic publication. This claim of the patentee consists 
in making, first, good negative drawings on papers prepared with 
salt and ammonio-nitrate of silver; secondly, fixing them by the 
process above described; thirdly, the formation of positive drawings 
from the negative copy, and fixing. 

These claims, taken from the specification as published in the 
Repertory of Patent Inventions, are preserved in their original form 
for the purpose of showing how much that is now fully accomplished 
was foreseen by Mr. Talbot as the result of his discoveries. 

SECTION IV. PIC1TJRES ON PORCELAIN TABI.ETS. 

A third patent has been obtained by Mr. Talbot, mainly involving 
the use of porcelain as a substitute for glass, and contains some useful 
facts noticed by Mr. Malone. 

The first part of the patentee's invention consists in the use of 
plates of unglazed porcelain to receive the photographic image. A 
plate intended for pliotographic purposes should be made of the finest 



THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY. 305 

materials oniploved l)y the niamifactiirers of ]:)orcelain; it should 
also be flat, very thin, and MMiiitraiisparcnt ; if too thin, so that there 
would 1)0 a chaiuv of breakinij;', it may be attached by means of cement 
to a piece of irlass to give it strength. The substance of the plate 
should be sliohtly porous, so as to enable it to imbibe and retain a 
STifficient (juantity of the chemical soluticms employed. To i)repare 
the ])late for use, it is first required to give it a coating of albumen, or 
white of eggs, laid on very evenly, and then gently dried at a fire. 
According as thi> i)late is more or less porous, it requires more or less 
of the albuminous coating; it is best to employ a very close-grained 
porcelain, which requires but little white of egg. The prepared 
plate may be made sensitive to light in the same way in which a sheet 
of paper is rendered sensitive; and we generally find the same 
methods applicable for photographic pictures on paper applicable 
to those on porcelain plates, and one of the processes employed by the 
patentee is nearly the same as that patented by Mr. Talbot in 1841. 

The prepared plate is dipped into a solution of nitrate of silver 
made by dissolving 25 grains of nitrate in 1 ounce of water; or the 
solution is spread over the plate uniformly with a brush. The plate 
is then dried, afterwards dipped into a solution of iodide of potas- 
sium of the strength of about 25 grains of iodide to 1 ounce of water, 
again dried, and the surface rubbed clean and smooth with cotton. 
The plate is now of a pale-yellow color, owing to the formation on 
the surface of iodide of silver. The plate, prepared as above di- 
rected, may be kept in this state until required, when it is to be ren- 
dered sensitive to light by washing it over with a solution of gallo- 
nitrate of silver, then placed in the camera ; and the image obtained 
is to be rendered visible and sufficiently strengthened by another 
washing of the same liquid, aided by gentle warmth. The negative 
picture thus obtained is fixed by washing it with water, then with 
bromide of potassium, or, what is still better, hyposulphite of soda, 
and again several times in water. The plate of porcelain being semi- 
transparent, positive pictures can be obtained from the above-men- 
tioned negative ones by copying them in a copying frame. 

The picture obtained on porcelain can be altered or modified in 
appearance by the application of a strong heat, a process not appli- 
cable to pictures taken on paper. AVith respect to this part of their 
invention, the patentees claim : 

The obtaining by means of a camera or copying frame pliotograpliic images 
or pictures upon slalis or plates of porcelain. 

The second i)art relates to the process which has been discovered 

and improved upon by Mr. ISIalone, who is associated with Mr. Fox 

■ Talbot in the patent. The patentees' improvement is a method of 

obtaining more complete fixation of photographic pictures on paper. 

SM 1904 20 



306 THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY. 

For this purpose the print, after undergoing the usual fixing proc- 
ess, is dipped into a boiling solution of strong caustic potash, which 
changes the color of the print, and usually, after a certain time, ac- 
quires something of a greenish tint, which indicates that the process 
is terminated. 

The picture is then Avell washed and dried, and if the tint acquired 
by it is not pleasing to the eye a slight exposure to the vapors of sul- 
phureted hydrogen will restore to it an agreeable brown or sepia 
tint. Under this treatment the picture diminishes in size, insomuch 
that if it were previously cut in two and one part submitted to the 
potash process and the other not, the two halves when iifterwards 
put together would be found not to correspond. The advantages of 
this process for removing any iodine which, even after fixing with 
the hyposulphite, remains in the paper is great, and it will tend much 
to preserve these beautiful transcrij^ts of nature. 

The i^atentee also claims as an improvement on the use of var- 
nished or other trans2:)arent paper impervious to water, as a sub- 
stitute for glass in certain circumstances, to support a film of albu- 
men for photographic purposes. A sheet of writing paper is brushed 
over with several coats of varnish on each side; it thus becomes 
extremely transparent. It is then brushed over on one side with 
albumen, or a mixture of albumen and gelatin and dried. This 
film of albumen is capable of being rendered sensitive to light by 
exposing it to the vapour of iodine, and by folloAving the |)rocess 
indicated in the preceding section of this specification. The ad- 
vantages of using varnished or oil paper do not consist in any su- 
periority of the images over those obtained upon glass, but in the 
greater couA'enience of using paper than glass in cases where a large 
number of pictures have to be made and carried about for consid- 
erable distances; besides this, there is a well-known kind of photo- 
graphic pictures giving panoramic views of scenery which are pro- 
duced upon a curved surface by a movement of the object glass 
of the camera. To the production of these images glass is hardly 
applicable, since it can not be readily bent to the required curve and 
again straiglitened; but the case is met by employing talc, varnished 
paper, oiled paper, etc., instead of glass. It will be seen that the 
varnished paper acts as a support to the film of albumen or gelatin, 
which is the surface on which the light acts and forms the picture. 
The next improvement consists in forming photographic pictures 
or inuiges on the surfaces of polished steel plates. For this purpose 
one part (by measure) of a standard solution of iodide of potassium 
is mixed with 200 parts of albumen, and spread as evenly as possible 
upon the surface of a steel plate and dried by the heat of a gentle 
fire. The i)late is then taken, and, while still warm, is washed over 
Avith an alcoholic solution of gallo-nitrate of silver of moderate 



THE illSTOKY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY. 307 

streiiirth. It then becomes very sensitive and easily receives a photo- 
graphic inia<i^e. If the })hite be cohl, the sensibility is considerably 
lower. The iinai>e obtained is fixed by washing with hyposulphate 
of soda and fin;dl\- with water. 

SECTION V. INSTANTANEOUS PROCESS. 

The next iincntion and j)ateiit of Mr. Fox Talbot possesses many 
jxH-nliarities, and as the resnlts are of a remarkable character it is 
important that the process slionld be given nncui-tailed in its main 
particulars. The following description mnst be regarded as an 
abstract of Mr. Talbot's communication to the Athena'um Decem- 
ber ('), 1S51. An experiment was tried in June, at the Royal Institu- 
tion, in which an instantaneous image was produced; but as the 
process was the subject of another patent it was not published until 
the above date. The experiment in question was that of obtaining 
a photographic copy of a printed paper fastened to a wheel, which 
was made to revolve as rapidly as possible, by illuminating it for 
a moment by the light olitained from the discharge of a Le3^deii 
battery. The bill was faithfully printed, not even a letter being 
indistinct. 

A glass plate is employed, and Mr. Talbot thus directs that it 
should be prepared : 

1. Take the most liquid portion of the white of an egg^ rejecting 
the rest. Mix it Avitli an equal quantity of water. Spread it very 
evenly upon a plate of glass, and dry it at the fire. A strong heat 
may be used without injuring the plate. The film of dried albumen 
ought to be uniform and nearly invisible. 

2. To an aqueous solution of nitrate of silver add a considerable 
quantity of alcohol, so that an ounce of the mixture may contain 3 
grains of the nitrate. I have tried various proportions, from 1 to 6 
grains, l)ut perhaps 3 grains answer the best. More experiments are 
here required, since the results are much influenced by this part of the 
process. 

3. Dip the j^late into this solution, and then let it dry spontaneously. 
Faint prismatic colors will then be seen upon the plate. It is impor- 
tant to remark that the nitrate of silver appears to form a true chem- 
ical combination with the albumen, rendering it much harder and 
insoluble in liquids which dissolved it previously. 

4. Wash with distilled water to remove any superfluous portion of 
the nitrate of silver. Then give the jjlate a second coating of albu- 
men, similar to the first, but in drying avoid heating it too much, 
wdiich would cause a commencement of decomposition of the silver. 

5. To an aqueous solution of proto-iodide of iron add, first, an 
equal volume of acetic acid, and then 10 volumes of alcohol. Allow 
the mixture to repose two or three days. At the end of that time 



808 THE HISTORY OF SOME DISCOVERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHY. 

it will have changed color, and the odor of acetic acid, as Avell as 
that of alcohol, will have disappeared, and the liquid will have 
acquired a peculiar but agreeable vinous odor. It is in this state that 
I prefer to employ it. 

6. Into the iodide thus prepared and modified the plate is dipped 
for a few seconds. All these operations may be performed by moder- 
ate daylight, avoiding, however, the direct solar rays. 

7. A solution is made of nitrate of silver, containing about 70 grains 
to 1 ounce of Avater. To 3 parts of this add 2 of acetic acid. Then, 
if the prepared plate is rapidly dipped once or twice into this solu- 
tion, it acquires a very great degree of sensibility, and it ought then 
to be placed in the camera without much delay. 

8. The i^late is Avithclrawn from the camera, and in order to bring 
out the image it is dipped into a solution of protosulphate of iron 
containing 1 part of the saturated solution diluted with 2 or 3 parts 
of water. The image appears very rapidly. 

9. Having washed the plate Avith Avater, it is noAv placed in a solu- 
tion of hyposulphite of soda, Avhich in one minute causes the image 
to brighten up exceedingly by removing a kind of veil which pre- 
A^iously coA'ered it. 

10. The plate is then Avashed Avith distilled Avater and the j^rocess 
is terminated. In order, hoAvever, to guard against future accidents 
it is well to giA^e the picture another coating of albumen and A^arnish. 

These operations may aiipoar long in the tlesoription, but tbey are rapidly 
enough executed after a little practice. In the process which I have now 
described I trust that I have effected a harmonious combination of several 
previously ascertained and valuable facts, especially of the photographic prop- 
erty of iodide of iron, which was discovered by Doctor ^^'oods, of Parsontown, 
in Ireland; and that of sulphate of iron, for which science is indebted to the 
researches of Mr. Robert Hunt. In tlie true adjustment of the proportions and 
in the mode of operation lies the ditficulty of these investigations, since it is 
possible by adopting other proportions and manipulations not very greatly dif- 
fering from the above, and which a careless reader might consider to be the 
same, not only to fail in obtaining the highly exalted sensibility which is desir- 
able in this process, but actually to obtain scarcely any photographic result at all. 

Mr. Talbot proposed the name of "' amphitype," or doubtful image 
for these pictures. This name hail, hoAvever, been adopted pre- 
viously, at Mr. Talbot's recommendation, by Sir John Herschel, and 
in the collodion processes, to be by and by described, Ave liaA^e similar 
phenomena, to which the name applies wnth equal force. 

It is not improbable that the high degree of sensibility Avhich is 
certainly obtained in this process is rather due to the formation of an 
iodide of ethyl in the mixture than to the combination, as Mr. Talbot 
supposes, of the proto-iodide and the proto-sulphate of iron. My 
ow^n researches convince me that Ave should seek for the highest 
degrees of sensibility amidst the numerous combinations of the 
ethyl and methyl compounds Avith the metallic oxides. 



THEORIES OF ORE DEPOSITION HISTORICALLY 
CONSIDERED. 



P.v S. F. Emmons.o 



111 the city in which we meet this year an exposition is preparing 
which is designed to coniineinorate the peaceful acquirement a cen- 
tur}^ ago of the rights of France to the Mississippi Valley and the 
regions to the west. It was the metallic wealth of the valley region 
Avhich first led to its exploration by the French, and which still con- 
stitutes an important feature in its industry, yielding annually, as it 
does, an amount about equal to the original purchase price. To a 
still greater degree has the unexampled rapidity \tith w'hich, in the 
last half century, civilization and industry have spread over the 
mountainous regions of the West been due to the development of 
their mineral resources — a development to which geological science 
has in no small measure contributed. 

In selecting a subject for my address as president of the Geological 
Society of xVmerica it has seemed appropriate, therefore, both to the 
time and to the place, to choose a theme that has to do with that 
branch of geology which is especially concerned with the deposits 
of the metals. The history of theories of ore deposition was the sub- 
ject originally chosen, but, as it gradually developed in the course 
of research, it was found that anything worthy of that name would 
far exceed the proper limits of an address. Thus its scope has been 
gradually narrowed to fit the necessities of the occasion, until it 
has become little more than a brief enumeration of the opinions held 
from time to time within the historic period which seems to have 
left the most permanent impress upon the minds of geologists. 

The term " ore deposition," which is used in preference to its 
earlier synonym '' vein formation " as more correctly representing 
the broader conceptions of the present day, applies, it is hardlj'^ 

a Annual address by tho president of tbe Geological Society of America, read 
before tbe society at St. Louis, Mo., December 30, 1903. Reprinted from author's 
revised copy. 

309 



310 THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 

necessary to state, only to the processes involved in tlie formation 
of deposits that form an integral part of the rock in which they 
occur, or - rock in place," as is the legal phraseology of the day, and 
does not include such recent detrital deposits as placers, etc., about 
whose origin there has never been any wide divergence of opinion. 

PREIIISTORICAI. VIEWS. 

The historic period is assumed to have been entered on only with 
^he revival of learning about the time of the Reformation at the 
commencement of the sixteenth century. What few records can be 
found of genetic opinions held liefore that time, even as to the more 
striking and readily observable geological phenomena, such as vol- 
canic eruptions, earthquakes, and changes in the earth's surface, are 
too scattered and fragmentary to afford evidence of any continuous 
development of thought. The views of the Pythagorean and Aris- 
totelian schools of philosophy on the causes of these natural phe- 
nomena, though apparently based more on bold poetical fantasy than 
exact observation, pi-esent a clearer and more logical conception than 
that which obtained nearly twenty centuries later. Thus it is said 
that as early as ()00 B. C. the observed occurrence in the rocks of 
casts of shells and plants were ascribed to periodical floodings of 
the land. During the Middle Ages, however, under the monkish 
influence that discouraged any views that might throw doubt on the 
literal correctness of the Mosaic cosmogony, these fossils were vari- 
ously assumed to have been formed in place by the agencies of tlie 
stars, to have been transformed from rock by some plastic force 
(vis plastica), or left by the waters of the Noachian deluge. 

Among the early cosmogonies, A\hicli it is true are of mythologic 
rather than of scientific interest, the Chinese is the only one which 
included metal among the elements of creation. Yet the general use 
of the metals, whose extraction from their native oi-es presup])0ses 
a knowledge of the art of smelting — in itself an evidence of a certain 
insight into nature's processes— goes back to very remote anti(iuity. 
It seems possible that the philosophers of these earlier civilizations 
]nay have indulged in speculations as to the origin of the metals, 
but if so they left no written record. Even among the Pvomans, of 
Avhose proficiency in mining evidence is found in most of the mining 
regions that came under their control, little or no genetic speculation 
Avas indulged in, if we accept the evidence of Pliny's Natural His- 
tory. This monumental work, which is assumed to contain a com- 
plete and faithful presentation of the knowledge of natural phe- 
nomena at the opening of the Christian era. though it described in 
considerable detail the methods of mining then in vogue, does not 



THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION IlISTOKK'ALLY CONSIDERED. 311 

ev(Mi iitloinpt a (lescription of the niodo of occiirreiK-e of Uio oi-es, 
nuu'li less spcciilale on their origin. 

The historic lime liere coiiteiiiphited may l>e divided, in a general 
way, into three periods, aeeordinii- to the prevailinir method by which 
the views then current were arrived at. 

DEVELOr.MENT OF KXOWLKlXii: 11 ISTOKK 'Arj,Y CONSIDERED. 

THE TUKKK I'KKIODS. 

1. The speculative period, in which, from a few rather imperfectly 
vleternnned facts of nature, general theories were evolved, intended to 
be applicable to all natural phenomena. It was a period in which 
geology was not 3^et recognized as a distinct science and had hardly 
reached the dignity of an adjunct to mineralogy. 

2. The second period was that in which facts of observation had 
accuunilated sufficiently to establish geology on the basis of a distinct 
science, but in which the method of reasoning from generals to par- 
ticulars still prevailed. This was the first scientific period. 

3. The third period might be called the period of verification, in 
which the theories already propounded were tested by experiment 
or observation. 

Such a classification is in the nature of things not susceptible of a 
very definite demarcation either in point of time or in the assignment 
to either period of individual opinions or theories, but the attempt to 
make it, however imperfect and unsuccessful it va-Aj prove, will assist 
us to form a clearer conception of the progress of human thought and 
of the methods by which it has arrived at its present understanding of 
the particular branch of geological science which we are considering. 

THE SPECULATIVE PERIOO. 

During the first or speculati\'e jieriod, which may be assumed to 
have extended up to the close of the eighteenth century, or to the time 
of Werner and Ilutton, the accumulation of accurately determined 
facts that would bear on the tluH)ry of ore deposits was so extremely 
limited that it may be assumed to have exercised but little influence 
on the (leveloi)ment of the science beyond the suggestion it afforded 
to later students of lines of investigation to be followed, and hence 
may be passed over in a very cursory manner. 

In the speculations of this period wdiich especially influenced the 
development of opinion two general types may be distinguished : 

First. The broader theories of the cosmic philosophers with regard 
1o the formation of the earth, based more or less upon astronomic 
data. 

Second. The special theories of mineral vein formation conceived 
by individuals and based in tlie main on general conceptions which 



312 THEOKIKS OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 

were .suppleniented by a certain amount of personal observation and 
experience. 

The cosmic philosophers Avere men who, without l)eino- geologists in 
the modern sense of the word, nevertheless put foi-th ideas witli re- 
gard to the system of the earth that had an undoubted influence on the 
minds of those who have since made a special study of this part of 
science. 

First of these was Descartes, the French mathematician and 
founder of the Cartesian system of philosophy (Principia, 1044), who 
considered the earth a planet like the sun, but which, though cooled 
and consolidated at its surface, still preserved in its interior a central 
tire that caused the return toward the surface of waters of infiltra- 
tion, the filling of veins by tlie metals, and the dislocations of the solid 
crust. 

Nearly contemporary with him was Steno, a Danish physician, who 
spent the greater part of his life in Italy, where he devoted nnich of 
his time to the study of geological phenomena. He was the first to 
seek to learn the origin of rocks and the changes in the earth's crust 
by the inductive method. He wrote a remarkable treatise, bearing 
the quaint title '' De Solido intra Solidum naturaliter Contento " 
(1069), in which he considers vein fissures to be later than the inclos- 
ing rocks and their filling to result from the condensation of vapors 
proceeding from the interior. Steno's ideas, so much in advance of 
those of his age, seem to have found little favor among his contempo- 
raries, and were scarcely known among geologists until called to their 
attention in the first half of the nineteenth century by de Beaumont 
and von Humboldt. 

Later Leibuitz, a German philosopher, inspired both by the ideas 
of Descartes and the observations and deductions of Steno, wrote a 
work on the origin of the earth (Protogani, 1691), which, in spite of 
its necessarily limited basis of facts, bears the imprint of genius in its 
conceptions. In applying his theories to the veins of the Ilartz, 
which he had occasion to visit during his thirty years' sojourn at 
Hanover, Leibnitz considers that they have been filled sometimes by 
the liquefying action of fire, sometimes by water. 

In the following century Buffon, the great French philosopher, 
excited to the highest degree the attention of the scientific Avorld by 
his Theorie de la Terre, 1749, and Fpoques de la Nature, 1778. His 
conceptions, though striking by the brilliancy of their imagination, 
have for the most part not proved of enduring value. Nevertheless 
they served a purpose by stimulating more exact observations on the 
points with regard to which his views were contested. With regard 
to mineral veins he held that they were primarily fissures opi'ued 
in the mountains through the force of contraction, and that they 
were filled by metals which by long and constant heat had separated 



THEORTES OF ORE DISPOSITION TII.STORIC4LLY CONRID-^RED. 313 

from oduM" vitrifiiiblc materials. But as there are iionvitrifiable as 
well as vitrifiahlc materials in veins, so there are secondary veins 
which liave been filled with iionvitrifiable minerals by the action of 
water. The ))riiiiary veins he considers to be characteristic of liiLdi 
mountains, while the secondary veins occur rather at the foot of the 
mountains, and probably derived some of their material from the 
primary veins. 

In the second class the foremost place, both in time and in the 
importance of his actual observations, must be accorded to Dr. 
George liauer, better knowai by his Latinized name of Agi-icola, a 
German physician wdio flourished during the first half of the six- 
teenth century. He spent a great part of his life among the mines 
of Saxony (Joachimsthal), of wdiich he made a careful study. He 
wrote in most excellent Latin several works on mineralogy and on the 
art of mining, which were for centuries standard books of reference 
on these subjects, and even to the present day contain much of inter- 
est to the mining engineer. Agricola w-as first and foremost a miner- 
alogist, and all his work was characterized by acuteness of observa- 
tion and accuracy of description, though in strong contrast to most 
of the early writers he did not indulge much in earth-formation theo- 
ries. He divided mineral veins into " commissuras " (joints or rents), 
" fibno " (small branching veins), " vense " (large veins or channels), 
and " terra> canales " (vein systems), and gives a clear account of 
their size, position, intersections, etc. In theoretical matters he was 
less definite and satisfactory. 

During all this period the two main subjects of speculation with 
regard to mineral veins, wdiich term practically included all ore 
deposits, were (1) their age relative to the rocks in which they were 
found, and (2) the cause and manner of their filling; and in consider- 
ing the views put forward on these subjects we must bear in mind 
that chemistry as a. science only came into existence toward the end 
of the eighteenth century, hence the ideas which Avere entertained as 
to the processes that may have gone on within the earth's crust to 
form metallic deposits were necessarily somewhat vague and fanciful. 

.Vjuong the ideas current in his time Agricola, as a result of his 
observations, promptly rejected the views that veins w^ere formed 
contemporaneously with the primary rocks of the globe and that the 
planets had an influence in the formation of the metals, but he 
seems to have had very few positive ideas of his own as to their ori- 
gin, though inclining to ascribe vein filling to material brought in 
by circulating waters. He still entertained the idea of a lapidifying 
juice, which he conceived as giving to water the power of absori> 
ing earth and of cf)rrodiiig metals, and which might have formed 
fossil casts as well as minerals. His use of the term " fossilia " for 
both minerals and petrifications, which was retained by subsequent 



314 THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 

geological writers, especially those of the "Wernerian school, is often 
a cause of misconception among modern readers Avho have occasion 
to consult the older works on geology and mineralogy. 

For over a century after Agricola there aj^pears to have been little 
w^ritten that had any special bearing on ore deposits, but toward the 
close of the seventeenth century there was an apparent awakening of 
interest in regard to their origin among reflective men who had to do 
directly or indirectly with mines, which may probabh' have been 
prompted by the theories of the cosmic philosophers, so that by the 
close of the eighteenth centur}^ there had accumulated considerable 
speculative literature on this subject. 

The following is a list of the more frequently quoted Avorks tliat 
appeared during this 2:)eriod, with the approximate dates of their 
j)ublication : 

Speculuin Motallurjii.c politissiiimiii. by P.ergmeistor Bnlthusar lii'lsler (1700). 

Physiea subton-auea, by J. J. Beeher. Coniineiitated by G. S. Stahl. Second 
edition (1703). 

Pyritologia, by .7. F. Ilenkol, j)rofessor of cliemistry and mineralogy, Freiberg 
(1725). 

Obersiichsicbe Bergakadeniie, l)y C. F. Zininierniaun, councilor of mines 
(1749). 

Markscheidekunst, by Von Oppel. vice-director of Saxon mines (1740). 

Abh. V. d. Metalmuttcu'u, etc., by D. J. 11. Lebman, director of Prussian mines 
(1753). 

Elementa Metallurgia' Cbemicne, by W. J. Wallerius. Stockholm (17t!8). 

Ursprung d. (iebirge u. Erzaderu, etc., by C. F. Delius, professor of metal- 
lurgy at Scbemnitz (1770). 

Mineral, (ieograpb. d. Kursiicbsiscbe Lander, by J. F. W. de ("barpentier, 
director of Sa.xon mines ( 177S). 

Unterirdisebe Geograpbic, by I. (J. Baumer, Giessen (1770). 

Gesch. d. Metallreicbs, Ijy G. A. Gerhard, councilor of mines (1781). 

Erfahr. ii. d. Innern d. Gebirge. by F. M. H. v. Trebra, vice-director of Han- 
overian mines (17.S."i). 

Beobacht. ii. d. Hartz Gebirge, by Lieut. G. O. S. Lasius, engineer on land 
survey of Hanover (17S7). 

The views of most of these early writers were rather cui'ious than 
instructive, yet some of them, especially those of men who had the 
hirgest practical experience in mines, are remarkably suggestive. 

Rosier, the earliest recorded mine superintendent, recognized that 
veins difl'er from ordinary cracks in the rocks only by being filled 
W'ith metallic minerals, but did not speculate on their genesis. 
Beeher and his counnentator, Stahl, both professors of medicine, 
assumed in a geueral wa}' that uiiiieral veins were original cracks in 
the rocks containing matter that had been changed into vein minerals 
by some exhalations from the intei-ior. Henkel supposed further that 
certain kinds of rock or stone which served as nuitrices were favorable 
and even absolutely necessarj^ to the formation of vein minerals. 
Zimmermann, Avho, like Henkel, was a chemist rather than a miner. 



TllKORIES OF OKK DISPOSITION 1 1 ISTORKWr.LV OONRTDKRED. 315 

coiisidcriMl (lull (he iiiiitcriiil ol' \('iiis. oriiiiiially (lie siuiic as the 
inclosing- rock, had hccii allcrcd by some saline solution and thus prc- 
parcnl for its final transformation into metallic minerals. The ahoxc, 
which mi<iht be calUnl conversion theories, do not necessarily assume 
that veins are mechanically formed cr-acks. and hence of more recent 
formation than the inclosing rocks. 

Von Tre.bra, a director of mines avIio Avas seeking for facts to aid in 
theii- exploitation, thought the changes observed in moinitains took 
place slowly under the influence of heat and humidity, and expressed 
his idea of conversion as applied to veins more distinctly as the taking 
away of one constituent of a rock and rei)lacing it by another. The 
agent of the transformation he called putrefaction or fermentation, 
by which names he wished to designate some unknown force which 
produced the chemical changes observed in the rocks. 

Ijehmann, a mineralogist and also a director of mines, supposed that 
the veins found in mines are only the branches and twigs of an 
immense trunk that extends to a great depth in the bowels of the 
earth, where nautre is carrA^ng on the manufacture of the metals, and 
whence they travel toward the surface through rents in the rocks in 
the form of vapors and exhalations, as the sap rises and circulates 
through plants and trees. This general view is popular amcmg 
practical miners exon at the present day, probably because it appeals 
almost exclusively to the imagination. 

Delius, Gerhard, and Lasius had the general idea that A'eins were 
fissures formed later than the inclosing rocks, which had been filled 
by materials brought in by circulating Avaters. The last Avent so far 
as to suppose that these waters contained carbonic acid and other 
solvents AAdiich enabled them to gather up metallic materials in their 
passage through the rocks. In this respect he approached closely to 
modern vieAvs, but he Avas in doubt Avhether the metals Avere contained 
in the rocks as such, or whether the soh^ents possessed the power of 
turning the substances they encountered in one place into lead and in 
another into sih'er or some other metal. 

Of more permanent value Avere the Avorks of Von Oppel ( 17-10) and 
de Charpentier (177S), Avho Avere successiA^ely directors of the Saxon 
mines previous to Werner. 

Von Oppel was the first to distinguish bedded clejiosits (lager- 
gange), or those Avhich lie ])arallel Avith the stratification, from true 
veins. He also gaAe to the small branches from a main vein the name 
of "stringers'' (triimmer), and noted that veins sometimes shift or 
fault the strata they cross, in Avhich case he calls them '* shifters " 
(Avechsel). He laid stress on the importance of the causes Avliich have 
produced rents or fissures in the earth, and shoAvs hoAv in the forma- 
tion of mountains the rocks, being exposed to great desiccation and 
violent shocks, might split one from another, thus producing rents 



316 THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 

with some open spaces, which being afterwards filled, would form 
mineral veins. "" Where a vein has been cut or deranged by a visible 
rent," he remarks, " it is again to be met with by following the 
direction of this last." 

Charpentier was a careful observer and a very cautious theorizer. 
He says, " Natural history will always gain more from true and 
accurate descriptions of her phenomena than from many and yet too- 
early explanations otfered for them '' — a most excellent principle 
which he admirably carries out in his own work. He presents many 
arguments derived from his own extensive observations in mines 
against the prevalent theory that veins were once open cracks formed 
by contraction, and that they had been filled by material flowing ill 
from the surrounding rocks and hardening in them. Some of his 
objections were : 

That contraction could not have made the kind of fissures that the 
veins are found to fill. 

Open or empty spaces could not have existed under the conditions 
present when they were formed ; pressure would have closed them. 

The fragments of country rock as foinid in veins could not thus be 
accounted for. If they had simply fallen into an open crack, they 
would have accumulated at its bottom. 

The comparatively uniform arrangement of ore in the vein, the 
enrichment caused by the crossing of one vein by another, the tran- 
sition from vein material to country rock, etc., could not be explained 
on the contraction theory. 

Having given his reasons why he believes that veins are not the 
filling of w4de open spaces in the rocks, he says his readers will natu- 
rally ask how he supposes them to have been formed, and although he 
is not anxious to j^resent a theory, he says he can not see from his 
observation of the workings of nature any other method for the for- 
mation of veins or other ore deposits than by an actual transforma- 
tion of the rock material. Nature's processes have created innumer- 
able small cracks and fissures in the rocks, and when a great num- 
ber of such cracks lie together and in a conmion direction they might 
give rise to a considerable vein deposit. Vapors bringing in mineral 
solutions might penetrate these small cracks, as the sap rises in capil- 
lary tubes in organic bodies. If thereby the intermediate rock mass 
became changed into vein material, a vein deposit might be created 
without the necessity of wide emi)ty spaces for its reception. 

Rather more than usual space has been given here to Charpentier's 
work because of the striking contrast of his mental attitude with that 
of his great successor, Werner, whose reputation so completely over- 
shadowed him that he has received less notice from later writers than 
seems to be his due. 



THEORIES or ORE DISPOSTTTON HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 31 7 



THE SCIENTIFIC PERIOD. 



The first scientific period may be said to have been entered on near 
the close of the eighteenth century, Avhen De Saussure (1770), Pallas 
(1777), and AVerner (iTi)l) almost sinndtaneously inaugurated by 
their works the era of ])ositive geology. It was about the same time 
that chemistry was placed on a scientific basis by the researches of 
Lavoisier, Scheele, Priestley, Cavendish, and others. Up to this time 
even the name geology had hardly been recognized, natural history or 
mineralogy l)eing the titles usually given to works that treated of it, 
nnd the fcAv exact facts with regard to it which such men as Agricola, 
Steno, and others had determined were drowned in a sea of conjec- 
tures. On the Continent it was the mining schools that principally 
fostered mineralogic and geonostic studies, and these had been but 
recently founded, that at Freiberg, Saxony, in 1765; at Schemnitz, 
Hungary, in 1770; at St. Petersburg, in 1783; and at Paris, in 1790. 
Geological literature, especiall}^ in Germany, went hand in hand with 
that on mining and mineralogy. 

Of the three men just named, the two first Avere eminently observers. 
Pallas, after being called to the mining school at St. Petersburg, had 
made a six years' geological expedition through the mountains of 
Russia and vSiberia, and De Saussure for over thirty years was largely 
busied in studying geological phenomena in his native Alps, being 
the first to climb Mont Blanc and Monte Rosa. He also appears to 
have been the first working geologist to use the name geology for his 
science. While neither of these men contributed much to the advance- 
ment of geological theory, they added largely to the store of ascer- 
tained fact, which is its necessary basis, and their greatest service, per- 
haps, was in inaugurating geological studies of the great mountain 
systems of the world, which more than any other branch of geological 
inquiry have been instrumental in raising this science to its present 
stand. 

The actual field of observation of Werner, on the other hand, was 
extremely restricted, scarcely extending beyond the confines of his 
native Saxony. He had, however, a genius for the analysis, classi- 
fication, and coordination of observations, which enabled him to bring 
order out of the chaos of fact and fancy which then constituted the 
science. With an eminentl}- didactic mind, he possessed, with much 
personal charm, such a power of imj^ressing his ideas upon his pupils, 
that during the forty years that he occupied the chair of mining and 
mineralogy the Freiberg school was the center of geological studies 
in Europe. From it emerged so many distinguished geologists, as 
the fruit of his teachings, that, as Cuvier says, " from one end of the 
Avorld to the other nature was interrogated in the name of Werner." 

Contemporaneously with Werner an equally great service was being 



318 THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 

rendered to geology at Edinburgh, in Scotland, by James Hiitton, 
who, like so many of the eminent geologists of the ^A•orld, had l>een 
educated as a physician. Hutton. like Werner, taught mainly through 
his lectures, neither of them finding time for much Avriting, so that 
the doctrines of either have become known to posterity mainly 
through the publications of their pupils. 

Each of these great teachers aimed to discard theory and to build 
their respective sj'^stems on a basis of ascertained facts, but in the then 
existing condition of geological investigation certain fundamental 
conceptions had to be assumed from the interpretation given to as yet 
imperfectly studied phenomena. With minds like theirs, strong in 
the courage of their convictions, an interpretation once fairly rea- 
soned out and accepted became an established fact, and thus it came 
about that through a difference in their jDremises their respective sys- 
tems were diametrically opposed and gave rise to the great controversy 
between NejDtunists and Plutonists, which for nearly fifty years di- 
vided the scientific world of Europe into two antagonistic schools. 
Werner assumed that the earth had once been surrounded by an ocean 
of water at least as deep as the mountains are high, and that from this 
ocean there were deposited by chemical precipitation the solid rocks 
which now form the dry land. He entirely ignored the internal heat 
of the globe in its influence on crystalline rocks, on ore deposits, and 
as a cause of the dislocations of stratified rocks. Hutton, on the 
other hand, while not ignoring the agency of Avater in the formation 
of the sedimentary rocks, ascribed to subterranean heat and the ex- 
panding power it exercised their final consolidation, their disturbed 
condition, and the changes produced in the older rocks, to which Lyell 
later gave the name of metamorphism. 

Neither made any distinction between dikes and mineral veins, but 
while Hutton supposed fissures and openings to have been formed 
from time to time which reached through the external crust down to 
the hot nucleus, and that both were formed by molten matter forced 
up through them toward the surface, Werner, on the other hand, 
taught tb.at they were contraction fissures Avhich were filled by ma- 
terial held in suspension or in solution; that a primeval ocean once 
covered them, and hence they must have been filled from above. 

In general matters Tlutton's reasoning and observations Avere both 
broader and more logical than Werner's, and his views have hence 
proved more enduring, but he had little, if any, personal knowledge 
of ore deposits. Werner nuule their study an important feature 
of the geologist's training, and his princi2:)al publication Avas entitled 
"A NcAv Theory of Vein Formation." Although this Avork was the 
only important one exclusiA-ely devoted to the subject, owing to the 
fatal defects in his geological premises, it contributed little to the per- 
manent advancement of that branch of the science, and it may cA^en 



I'll i;(ii;ii;s ok ohI'; disposition ii istokicallv considered. 319 

he (jiiostioiKMl whether it did not ret;ir(l it, since throiiijli tlie <j,'i-eat 
weight of the niithor's name it remained a standard work in (lermany 
Ion*; at'tei- many of his peculiar i>«'oh)i>ieal tlieories liad been dis- 
carded. Its merit hiy less in the novelty of the views advanced, most 
of which had already been put forth by one or another of his prede- 
cessors, than in the logical way in which they were presented. 

The principal points Avith regard to the origin of oi-e deposits 
which may be considered as fairly Avell established by Werner's 
teachings are that they are the filling of fissures and cracks of later 
formation than the inclosing rocks, and consist of foreign material 
,subse(iuently introduced, largely in aqueous solution. As to the 
fissures themselves, while a certain systematic arrangement had been 
noted in their directions, and the fact that, where by intersection, 
one had been shifted or faulted by another, inferences as to their 
relative age might be drawn, little definite conception Avas appar- 
ently had as to their origin beyond the general suggestion that they 
might be the result of subsidence or of contraction of the rock masses 
in which the}^ occur. 

Any important advance over these rather crude conceptions Avas 
hardly to be looked for until very decided jjrogress had been made in 
the broad general theories of geology, and tliis progress Avas neces- 
sarily very sIoav. Although the period of reasoning from facts of 
nature to generalizations had commenced, the tendency to pure 
speculation Avas not yet extinct, and resulted in many remarkable 
theories, such as that put forth by Professor Oken, of Jena, Avho, 
in his text-book of Natural Philosophy (ISOO'I, assumed that the 
earth Avas a polyeder formed according to the hnvs of crystallo- 
graphy, and that A^eins or fissures resulted fi"om the loss of the 
Avater of crystallization. For the genesis of ores, darkness, earthy 
Avater, and air are necessary; hence there can be no ore in the interior 
of the earth, since no air reaches it, etc. Or, again, that of Breislak, 
the Italian geologist (1811), Avho put forth a j^dutonic earth theory 
Avhich supposed that Avhile the rocks Avere still in a molten condition 
the metals had a tendency to separate under the influence of specific 
gravity and of certain chemical and physical affmities, and localized 
themseh'es in A'eins Avithout entirely separating from their country 
rock. This is apparently the first enunciation of the modern theory 
of magmatic segi-egation. The metallic gi-ains in placers he supposed 
to have been granulated like slag on coming in contact with water. 

The peculiar vieAvs of Werner naturally held SAva}^ longer in Ger- 
many than elsewhei-e, yet it Avas his favorite pupils that AA^ere first 
led. in their widening fields of obserA'ation, to abandon his theory 
that basalt is of aqueous origin, though altered by the heat produced 
through the combustion of neighboi'ing beds of coal. 

Von Buch, for a long time the leading geologist of Germany. Avas 



320 THEOEIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 

perhaps the first to whom doubts came as to the correctness of his 
master's teachings, while studying an eruption of Vesuvius in 1799, 
though he refrained from immediate publication of these doubts. 

D'Aubuisson, the French geologist, after visiting, in 1804, the vol- 
canic regions of Auvergne, also became convinced of its igneous origin 
and published a recantation of the views maintained in his essay of 
the previous year on the aqueous origin of the basalts of Saxony. 
Finally, von Flumboldt (1810), perhaps the greatest of his pupils, 
in his extended observations in the Cordilleran system of the Amer- 
ican continents, traced a direct connection between metallic deposits 
and the eruptive rocks. 

Observation must have convinced many of Werner's pupils of the 
untenability of his peculiar views on the formation and filling of 
veins long before their final refutation was published by his succes- 
sor, von Beust, in 1840, but reverence for his memory doubtless pre- 
vented a definite expression of their opinions in print. 

Von Herder, in his work on the Meissner adit, published in 1888, 
classified the various theories on the origin of veins that had been 
held up to that time, as follows: 

1. Theory of contemporaneous formation (with the inclosing rock). 

2. Tlieory of (filling by) lateral secretion, or by material derived 
from the inclosing rocks. 

3. Theory of (filling by) descension, or filling from above. 

4. Theory of (filling by) ascension, or filling from below, the lat- 
ter subdivided into: 

(a) By infiltration, or solutions from mineral (thermal) waters. 
(h) By sublimation, or by ascending steam. 

(c) By sublimation, or in gaseous condition. 

(d) By injection or in igneous fluid state. 

He was thus apparently the first to apply the now time-honored 
terms " ascension," " descension,'' and " lateral secretion," though the 
idea was clearly expressed thirty years before by Cuvier's collab- 
orator, Alexandre Brogniart, Avhen, in an attempt to reconcile the 
Huttonian and Wernerian schools, he showed that no one theory 
could fit all kinds of veins. 

The theories of contemporaneous formation and of descension had 
by this time become practically obsolete among the Germans, and 
had never had much standing among geologists of other nations. 
German geologists, who have been the most assiduous students of 
vein phenomena in the field, have always been inclined to assume 
that vein minerals have been deposited by precipitation from aque- 
ous solution, differences of opinion having been mainly as to the 
provenance of the waters. Doubtless the influence of AVerner had 
much to do with their mental attitude, but it is also to be remarked 



THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 321 

Ihat this nu'lluxl of foniiatioii best fits the ore deposits of their 
country. 

In Euijlaiul, tlie home of Phitonism, on the other hand, no very 
decided views on theories of ore deposition were held. John Macciil- 
lou^h. in lS'Jl-lS2o, after a discussion of the Wernerian-Huttonian 
views, wisely concludes that it is necessary to study nature's proc- 
esses more closely before a satisfactory theor}'- can be formulated. 
He enumerates the minerals occurring in ore deposits which may be 
foruKMl by infiltration or solution and by sublimation, contending 
that many vein minerals can be produced in either way, and recom- 
mends further investigations along that line. 

John Taylor, in his report on minelar veins to the British .Vssocia- 
tion in 1833, makes a similar review and arrives at similarly indefi- 
nite conclusions. 

Later, De la Beche, in his Geology of Cornwall (1839), says: 

The tlieories of the day divide tlieniselves into, first, the contemporaneous 
formation of mineral veins witli tho rocks which inclose them; second, the 
filling of fissures formed in rocks by the sublimation of substances driven by 
lieat from beneath upward; and. third, the filling of fissures in rocks by chem- 
ical deposits from substances in solution in the fissures, such deposits being 
greatly due to electro-chemical agency. 

The contemporaneous theory, according to him, was still gener- 
ally held among Cornish miners, but he himself is evidently more 
inclined to the theoiy of deposition by solutions ascending under the 
influence of internal heat, the water being furnished from the sea, 
which covered many of the Cornish lodes. 

The electro-chemical theory, which had already been suggested in 
1810 by Bergrath Schmidt, and for a time enjoyed a certain popular- 
ity among English geologists, was founded mainly on ohservations 
made on the mine waters of Cornwall by Robert Ware Fox. This 
theory assumed that vein minerals had been precipitated from solu- 
tion under the influence of electrical currents. It would appear, 
however, that, owing to the imperfect knowledge of chemistry of 
that time, the believers in this theory assumed electric currents to be 
a necessity for the production of certain reactions when they only 
serve to facilitate them. Fox's observations on the action of mine 
waters on minerals were, moreover, rendered somewhat inconclusive 
by the fact that he did not distinguish between primary vein min- 
erals and those that have been formed during their secondary altera- 
tion by surface waters. 

Among French geologists Plutonist views were predominant from 
the first; even those who, under the influence of Werner's magnetic 
teaching, had for a time embraced his Neptunist theory soon re- 
canted it when their field of observation had widened to include vol- 
SM 1904 21 



322 THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 

caiiic regions. The cosmic theory, generally known as the '' nebular 
hypothesis," the one which has been most universally accepted by 
geologists as an explanation of the earth's beginnings, as finall}^ re- 
ceived, was the work of a French mathematician, Laplace (1796). 
Hence, in seeking to account for the origin of ore deposits they w^ere 
naturally inclined to look for igneous agencies. Thus, A. Burat, 
well known through his work" " Applied Geology," 1843, took extreme 
Plutonic views and divided the copper, lead, and iron deposits of the 
Italian peninsula, which he had especially studied, into (1) dikes or 
eruptive masses, with gangue of amphibolite and livaite; and (2) 
irregular veins of contact between eruptive serpentine and sedi- 
mentar}^ rocks. The Elba deposits of specular iron, which he re- 
garded as striking instances of the first class, he considered to have 
exercised an elevatory as well as metamorphic action on the inclosing 
rocks at the time of their injection. Fournet, another prominent 
authority on the subject, maintained a theory of igneous injection for 
vein fillings as late as 1859. 

As in Germany, it was the professors in the mining schools, espe- 
cially those at Freiberg, who, in the early part of the century, led in 
forming scientific opinion as to ore deposition, so it was the School 
of Mines at Paris wliich later furnished the leaders in that branch of 
geological thought. 

The French students of underground phenomena Avere at a certain 
disadvantage as compared with their German brethren, in that they 
were obliged to travel to foreign countries to study large mines. 
whereas the German schools w^ere all situated in the midst of impor- 
tant mining districts. On the other hand, Avhile the German displays 
great industry and acuteness of observation in his collection of facts, 
the Frenchman has a remarkable faculty of logically grouping them 
and of clearly and concisely stating the conclusions to be drawn 
therefrom. The French language, moreover, by its structure is much 
better adapted to a concise presentation of scientific concepts that may 
be readily understood by the reader than the German, which is likely 
to be involved and cumbersome in its mode of expression. Hence, 
toward the middle of the century the influence of the French geolo- 
gists on genetic speculation l)ecame predominant, especially as it 
was based on synthetic experiment, a branch of geological investiga- 
tion which for a time they jn-actically monopolized. 

The first of the French geologists who has left an enduring impress 
upon the theory of ore deposits was Elie de Beaumont, who for nearly 
fifty years occupied the chair of geology at the Paris School of Mines 
(1827-1874). In 1847 he published, as an abstract of his lectures, his 
well-known paper " Volcanic and metalliferous emanations,'' in which 
he does not claim to formulate a complete or final theory, but presents 
his views as explanations which seemed to him best to fit the facts of 



THEOllIES OF OUE DISPOSITION II ISTOKICALLV CONSIDERED. 328 

iiadii'c as llioii known. His conclusions sire, briefly: That the metal- 
lic Miincrals in veins of incrustation (since called crust ilicat ion) find 
their ultimate source in eruptive rocks, from which they emanate at 
first in gaseous form. As they pass thi'ouirh long canals or fissures, 
at greater distances from the center of eru|)tion, they must condense 
and thus form deposits analogous to those of springs at their point 
of exit. The metals in veins are found united less fre([uently with 
oxygen than with certain elements to which the name '' miueralizers '' 
has heeii gi\en. and which are not only volatile themselves, but possess 
the property of rendering vohitile many substances with which they 
combine. These are sidphur, selenium, arsenic, antimony, phos- 
phorus, tellurium, chlorine, bromine, iodine, etc. 

Mineral springs he divides into principal or hottest tliermals, which 
are fed by gases emanating directl}' from eruptive masses which reach 
the surface in a fluid state, and, second, less heated springs, which 
often accompany the former. The latter are fed by meteoric waters, 
which descend until they come in contact with hot rocks and, Avhen 
heated, ascend again, in which journey they may be charged with 
mineral substances. 

Vein deposits may be formed by either class of tliermals; the sec- 
ond class would form deposits not onlj^ in ordinary fissures, but also 
in those already charged by direct emanations. It is difficult to 
account for the gangue minerals as direct emanations, since they are 
not volatile except such as are combined watli fluorine. Certain 
deposits without gangue in eruptive rocks and deposits in limestone 
in contact with eruptive rocks, associated with garnet, ilvaite, and 
similar minerals, may have been deposited by sublimation, but these 
are exceptional. For most veins he admits, in accord Avith Bischof, 
that the earthy minerals must have come from the decomposition of 
the country rocks. The greater proportion of true veins (veins of 
incrustation) he considers to have been formed by deposition from 
waters circulating in cracks in the earth's crust. In this, his theory 
resembles Werner's, but differs from it in assuming that the solutions 
were ascending rather than descending. Werner's argument in favor 
of descending waters, namely, that veins become poorer in depth, he 
considers not well founded, the facts of nature rather going to prove 
that the solutions became weaker as they approached the surface. 

Stanniferous veins, which contain a great number of the rarer ele- 
ments and are associated with acid rocks, are the type of the first 
class, while ordinary or plumbiferous veins, which are characterized 
by the important role of miueralizers and the absence of anhydrous 
silicates, are usually associated with basic rocks. 

His reasoning is evidently based largely on his observations in 
Cornwall, and on an assumed difference in the origin of granite and 
of volcanic rocks in general. Granite, he assumes, owes its crystal- 



32-t THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED, 

Unity less to the fact of having crystallized at great depths than to 
its content of water (2 to 3 per cent), which enabled it to remain in a 
pasty condition nuich below its fusion point, and thus alloAved quartz 
to take the impress of other minerals. The minerals of the first 
group of veins form part of the outer crust (j^enumbra) of granite 
bodies, as granite once formed the outer crust of the earth. 

The products of volcanic eruptions he divides into two classes: 

(1) the lava-like, which consist of silicates in a molten condition; 

(2) the sulphur-like, which emanate in a molecular condition. To 
the latter alone can the formation of vein minerals be attributed. 
The term " solfataric,"' which was employed by subsequent writers 
to describe the action of the sulphur-like emanations, has since been 
very generally used by writers on ore deposits in a sense which is not 
always strictly accurate. 

Although de Beaumont''s views are based on some premises no 
longer considered tenable, they mark an important advance in this 
line of research, in that they may be said to be the first fruits of 
organized field investigation, for the first geological surveys, those 
of Great Britain and of France, had been founded about ten years 
before, and the first geological map of France had recently (1841) 
l)een completed by the latter survey, of which he was the founder and 
director. 

This was also an era of experimental investigation, as Avell as of 
observation in the field. Following the example of Sir James Hall, 
who had, as early as 1805, spent some years in experimenting on 
the transformation of rocks under the combined influence of heat 
and pressure, PVench geologists were actively employed in attempt- 
ing, by synthetical expei-iment in the laboratory, to imitate the proc- 
esses of nature in the formation of rocks and minerals, especially 
of vein minerals. Prominent among those engaged in this work 
were Berthier, Becquerel, Ebelmen, Durocher, Senarmont. and 
Daubree. At first with heat alone and later employing heat and 
water combined, ahvays under pressure, they succeeded in repro- 
ducing artificially a great number of the minerals of rocks and veins. 
Senarmont (1849-1851), by the aid of water at temperatures of 130° 
to 300^ C, formed artificially 30 of the principal minerals found in 
ore deposits, including quartz. The results of these experiments 
did not, however, prove decisively the agents which nature has em- 
ploj'^ed, since the}^ demonstrated that the same mineral may be formed 
by several different methods. This was appreciated by Daubree, 
Avho, connnencing his synthetical experiments with the artificial 
production of cassiterite in 1844, carried on experimental investi- 
gations into the mechanics of rock fracturing, the flow of subter- 
ranean waters, and rock metauiorj)hisni in general to near the close 
of the century. He was particularly impressed by his studies of 



THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 825 

the mineral |)r()C('ssi's that have ooiic on since Roman times in the 
masonry of ohl tliernial establishments at IMombieres, Bourbonne- 
h^s-Hains, and elsewhere, in Avhieh he thonn^ht to trace the actual 
processes of vein formation. TTis works. Experimental (^Jeolog}-, 
187!), and Subterranean "Waters, ISST, which contain the first ])hilo- 
sophic discussion based on experiment of the physics of the rock 
fractures that constitute canals for the circulation of un(h'r<>:r()und 
waters, are still classic works of reference for the students of ore 
deposits. Danbree understood veins to be fractures formed by 
dislocations of the earth's crust under pressure strains and filled 
by de])osits from acpieous solutions, generally heated by contact with 
igneous i-ocks, from which in certain cases they may have directh' 
emanated. From his observations at Plombieres he inferred that 
most minerals are soluble if given sufficient w^ater and time, and that 
great heat and pressure are not absolutely necessary prerequisites. 
Some of the materials of veins, he admitted, may have been derived 
from the surrounding rocks. 

The middle of the nineteenth century was characterized by the 
increasing use of laboratory expei-iments in chemistry and physics 
as aids in testing the current theories of vein formation, as is sho\vri 
in the preceding sketch of progress of opinions among French 
geologists. 

Similar progress was going on in other countries, especially in 
Germany, which was more particularly a country of mines and 
mining engineers, though among students of this subject there was 
less solidarity of opinion than with the French, and their investiga- 
tions for a long time were rather on chemical than on physical lines. 

A great impulse to increased accuracy in geological investigation 
was given by the classic work of G. Bischof, Physical and Chemical 
Geology, 1846^7, which discusses in a masterly way the processes 
involved in most of the known geological phenomena, largely on 
the basis of the author's own researches and experiments, and which 
may be said to have raised chemical geology to the rank of a dis- 
tinct science. In the course of his investigations, Bischof, having 
found that the constituents of the gangue minerals of veins are 
found in the country rocks, thought it probable that the metals of 
the suli)hide ores might also exist in these rocks in the form of sili- 
cates. Later, and independently, Forchhammer, the Danish chemist, 
in the course of his long continued investigations of the waters of 
the ocean, detected minute amounts of many of the metals of ore 
deposits both in sea water and in different varieties of rocks. It 
was long before the suggestions offered by these discoveries had 
any practical effect on ore-deposit investigations. 

The leading authorities (on ore deposits) of that period were Von 
Beust, Breithaupt, II. Midler, and Von Cotta. The latter for over 



326 THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 

tliirty years occu])ied the chair of geology at Freiberg, during 
which time he had opportunities of visiting most of the important 
mines of Europe. His text-book on ore deposits (1853-1859), which 
up to the end of the third quarter of the century was the standard 
authority both in Europe and America (through Prime's transhi- 
tion, 1809), may be assumed to be a good exponent of the knowledge 
of the time. It gives a fair-minded statement of all the theories 
which had been given to account for the formation of vein min- 
erals, showing, however, a leaning toward the infiltration or hy- 
drothermal theory of vein filling, based on the fact that some of tlie 
most common constituents are found in existing thermal waters, and 
that thermal waters containing CO., or H„S are found in the deeper 
workings of some mines. In general, however, his views, whether 
on classes of deposits or individual types, do not betray the firm 
conviction that would result from an exhaustive and systematic 
study. Moreover, the fact that his classification of deposits is based 
on the more or less accidental character of form, without an3^ ref- 
erence to genesis, would indicate that his genetic ideas were still in 
a tentative state. 

In 1873 Prof. F. Sandberger, feeling that the current theories 
inadequately explained many of the ^jhenomena of vein deposits, 
followed out the suggestions of Bischof by nuiking an extended 
series of analj'ses of the country rocks of veins. Separating previ- 
ous to analysis the constituent minerals of the rocks by means of 
solutions of varying densities, he succeeded in demonstrating to his 
own satisfaction that the characteristic minerals of different depos- 
its are contained in the basic silicates of the adjoining rocks, and in 
1880 propounded his theory of lateral secretion, according to whicli 
the mineral contents of veins are derived, not from some unknown 
depth, but from the immediate wall rock, being brought in by 
percolating waters which are not necessarily at a very high tem- 
l^erature. As against the thermal-spring tluM)ry. he argued that a 
very small proportion of known thermals contain any of the metal- 
lic minerals whatever, and none in the state of sulphides; furthci-. 
that the deposits observed in their channels have been precipitated 
in immediate proximity to the surface and under physical and chem- 
ical conditions that differ essentially from those that must have i)r('- 
vailed at the depths at which veins wei-e formed. 

Sandberger's theory, though for a time it found many adherents, 
was bitterly contested, especially by Stelzner, Von Cotta's successor 
at Freiberg, and b)'^ Posepny, professor at the Mining School of Pri- 
bram, in Bohemia. They maintained that the facts in their respective 
districts disproved the lateral secretion theory in the restricted sense 
in which Sandberger employed it, and tliey demonstrated by a repe- 
tition of his analyses that, owing to imperfect methods, he had not 



THKOKTKS OF OKE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 327 

provod the inotals ho found to he necessarily original constitnents of 
the rocks in which they were supposed to occur. AVhatever opinion 
may he liehl as to the nii'rits of San(lher<2:ei-"s theory, as such, it un- 
douhtedly contrihuted to the advance of the study of ore deposits in 
stinudatin<>- what may he calknl "'verification;" that is, the practical 
testin<2: of theory in its ajjplication to concrete instances in nature. 

Tn iioiici-al it may he said of the period that was now closing; that, 
tiiouoh Tads of ohservation and experiment had been accunudating, 
the advances in the sludy of ore deposits (hn'in<>' that time were much 
less than those that had heen made in other branches of geological 
i^'cience. 

THE VEKn'TCATION PKKIOU. 

The third period, covering in a general way the last quarter of the 
past century, may l)e called the period of verification. So fertile 
had been the imagination of previous thinkers on this subject that at 
this time it was practically impossible to conceive a theory of origin 
for a given ore deposit that had not already been proposed or at least 
suggested. The investigations now to be carried on with more perfect 
methods, or in the light of recent advances in the science, would seem 
more properly verifications of old theories than the propounding of 
new ones. 

Method and the microscope have been the two great agents of 
progress. The greatest improvement in method has resulted from 
government aid, under which it has been possible for organized bodies 
of scientific workers to make special examinations of entire mining 
districts, and thus determine all the facts bearing upon ore deposi- 
tion in those districts with an exhaustiveness that was impracticable 
for the unaided individual observer. The newly created science of 
microscopical petrography, through the intimate knowledge it has 
afforded of the internal structure of rocks and ores, has admitted so 
accurate a determination of the processes b}^ which the}' have been 
formed that much that was formerly mere conjecture has become 
established on basis of fact. America, which hitlierto had occupied 
a very subordinate position, had come to the front, not only in the 
production of metallic ores, but in its correct understanding of the 
])r()cesses by which they were formed. 

In order to properly appreciate the progress which has been made 
during this period, one must endeavor to realize the mental stand- 
l)oint of the average student at the close of the preceding jieriod. 

To the miner and prospector, -whose opinions carry weight because 
of their wide practical experience, a typical ore deposit was a vein 
which, once an open crack extending to an indefinite depth, had been 
filled by material introduced in one way or another from below, and 
the more nearly a deposit approached this typical form the greater 



328 THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 

its value. Indeed, for a time some of the most valuable deposits in 
the West were entirely neglected by the prospector because they did 
not possess the physical characteristics of the " true fissure vein,-' 
This misconception arose from the fact that this, being the most 
clearly defined form of deposit, had been the only one mentioned in 
early si)eculations, and that hitherto the classification of text-books, 
based as they were on the almost accidental characteristic of form, 
relegated other types of deposit to a distinct and relatively subordi- 
nate class, disregarding the fact that this class includes many of the 
largest and most productive ore bodies, which may not only have the 
same origin, but often be associated in the same deposit with a typical 
fissure vein. 

Von Groddeck (on the other hand), who represents the most ad- 
vanced scientific opinions of his time (1879), divides ore deposits into 
two classes : 

1. Those formed contemporaneously with the inclosing rock, 
whether {a) sedimentary or (6) eruptive. 

2. Those of latei- formation classed under two heads: 

(a) Those filling preexisting open spaces. 

(h) Metamorphic deposits formed by alteration of rock in 
place. 
His two main divisions corresponded to a certain extent with those 
made in 1854 by J. D. Whitney (Metallic Wealth of the United 
States), namely, stratified and unstratified. One dilTerence is that 
metamorphic deposits were included by Whitney in the first division 
and by Von Groddeck in his second. Neither recognized their true 
importance, and the latter, while admitting that he included in this 
class those that Stelzner had called metasomatic deposits, said they 
could not be regarded as separate deposits, because they are only inci- 
dental phenomena of the filling of cavities. 

As a means of obtaining a clear view of the whole field. Von Grod- 
deck divided known deposits into types (54 in number), character- 
ized in the main by their varying mineralogical and lithological asso- 
ciations. Of these, 10 belong to his first subdivision, 5 to the second, 
20 to the third, and 7 in part to the third and fourth, a classification 
which he admitted nnjst be considered but tentative, owing to defects 
in existing knowledge which could be remedied only w'hen all mines 
could be studied on a monographic or exhaustive system. 

In America, though apparently uidnioAvn to Von Groddeck, such 
monographic studies had already been made— that of the Comstock 
lode by King (Fortieth Parallel reports, 1870), of the Lake Superior 
copper deposits by Pumpelly (Michigan geological survey, 1873), 
and that of the lead dei)osits of the Mississippi Valley by Chamberlin 
(Wisconsin geological survey. 1873-1871)). These were followed in 
the early eighties by reports on the Comstock lode by Becker, on Lead- 



THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION JIISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 329 

villo l>y Emmons, on Eurek.i by Curtis, and on tho copper-bearing 
rocks of Lake Superior by Irving — monograi)liic studies which consti- 
tuted an important feature in the plan of work hiid out for the newly 
established ITnited States Geological Survey. It was the expectation 
of (liose Avho planned this Avork that when all the important mining 
districts of the United States had been thus exhaustively studied, a 
snflici«Mit store of well-ascertained facts regarding ore deposits would 
have been accumulated to admit of the formulation of a new theory 
more firmly grounded on a basis of well-established fact than any that 
had yet been presented. 

It may be said of the deposits studied in the first decade of the Sur- 
vey work tliat. in the form in which they were found, they were all 
determined to have been deposited from aqueous solutions and to be 
of later origin than the inclosing rocks. The lead and zinc ores of 
the Mississippi Valley might have been included in Von Groddeck's 
contemporaneous class if, as assumed by Whitney and Chamberlin, 
these metals had been deposited with the limestones at the time of 
their formation ; but while, as to this ultinuite source there is some 
diil'erence of opinion, all are agreed that the concentrations which 
produced the workable ore bodies were of later date; hence it seems 
more logical to consider them of later formation than the inclosing 
rocks. 

In the case of the other deposits studied, which were found to occur 
either in or in the innnediate vicinity of eruptive rocks, it was as- 
sumed that the j)ercolating waters had derived their metallic contei:wbs 
from some of these eruptive rocks, which careful tests had shown to 
contain small amounts of the various materials of the deposits. This 
derivation had an advantage over that of indefinite depth appealed to 
Iw the ascensionist or hydrothermal school, inasmuch as it admitted 
some sort of experimental proof, indirect though it Avas, and because 
at the depth at which the rocks might be supposed to be essentially 
richer in metals than those found at the surface, cracks sufficiently 
open to admit a free floAV of thermal waters were considered impos- 
sible under the conditions of pressure assumed to exist there. This 
view was called a lateral-secretion theory, though it differed essen- 
tially from that of Sandberger. in that the derivation of the vein 
minerals was not restricted to the immediate wall rocks (Nebenges- 
teine) of the deposits. Indeed, in a later discussion it was character- 
ized as another form of the ascension theory. The circulating waters 
which had brought in the vein materials were assumed, though not 
always explicitly, to be of meteoric origin — Avaters Avhich originally 
descending from the stirface had become heated either in contact Avith 
igenous rocks or by the internal heat of the earth, and gathering up 
mineral matter in their journey had redeposited it Avhen conditions 
favored preciDitation rather than solution. The natural channels 



330 THEORIES OF OEE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONJ^IDERED. 

through which these waters would circulate most freely, and which 
hence were most favorable to ore deposition, were rock fractures pro- 
duced by dynamic movements in the crust; faults or joints to which 
Daubree had given the designation " lithoclases." In no case were 
these fractures found to be contraction fissures, which Werner and 
many subsequent writers assumed to be the typical vein fissure, disre- 
garding the consideration that contraction fissures could not traverse 
two distinct bodies of rock. To the joint-like fissures that are con- 
fined to a single bed, Wiiitney bad already given the name "" gash " 
veins. 

In the Comstock Lode report, Becker had discussed mathematically 
the mechanics of faulting as applied to vein fissures, and had shown 
that an important characteristic of faulting on a fissure in solid rock 
is the tendenc}^ of the movement to separate the rock into sheets by 
subordinate fissures parallel to the main one. From j)ractical obser- 
vation Emmons had similarly concluded that the faulting movement 
which produced vein fissures was often distributed on a number of 
parallel fissures, thus producing a sheeting of the country rock. 
Where these fissures were sufficiently close together, so that the inter- 
mediate sheets of country rock were Aery thin and had been partially 
replaced by vein material, a banding would result which might be 
mistaken for that of the typical vein of incrustation. Where they 
were farther apart and of approximately equal strength, the mineral 
filling, instead of being confined to a single fissure, might be distrib- 
uted on several, thus rendering frequent crosscutting advisable in 
their exploitation. 

The idea that later-formed ore deposits are necessarily the filling of 
considerable cavities or open spaces in the inclosing rocks has been 
considerably modified by the important role that the process of meta- 
somatic replacement or substitution has been shown to have played 
in the formation of ore bodies. The idea of replacement had been 
suggested in the conversion theories of the early speculators and more 
distinctly expressed by Charpenticr. By th(» geologists of the second 
period it was c()nlparati^■ely neglected, though iu a few cases admit- 
ted as a subordinate factor, especially in the formation of deposits 
in limestone. Even in Posepny's frequentl}' quoted studies of the 
lead and zinc deposits of Raibl in Carinthia (1ST8). he aduiits this 
mode of formation only for the oxidized ores, considering the sul- 
phide ores to haA'e been deposited in open cavities. 

In America Pumpelly first ajiplied this process to the copper 
deposits of the Lake Superior region (1871 ) , of which he says : '' Ln at 
least very many instances, if not in all, the deposition of the copper is 
the result of a process of displacement of preexisting minerals." 

Leadville and Eureka were the first large mining districts in which 
it was proved that extensive ore deposits were entirely formed by 



THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 331 

motasoinatic roi)lacement of tlio inclosin<r rock, which in these cases 
was liinest-one. Later observations showed that this form of deposit 
was not confined to limestones, and that in fissnre vein deposits, even 
in acid rocks, metasomatic processes had often phiyed an important 
part in rephiciniii; by ore portions of the country rock which, under the 
(.1(1 views, mioht have been r('<rarded as vein filling. The interest and 
iinj)()i-tance of this view were speedily recognized, especially by 
American geologists and mining engineers, and while still novel, it 
was doubtless sometimes applied without sufficient j^roof as an expla- 
nation of the formation of certain vein deposits to the exclusion of that 
of the filling of cavities or interstitial spa(;es. With the general 
introduction of the microscope into the study of vein materials, how- 
cvn\ a comparatively sure method was provided of distinguishing 
the i-esults of the two processes. The process of verification has in 
this case resulted in the establishment of the importance and increas- 
ingly wnde applicability of the metasomatic theory to the formation 
of ore deposits of all types. 

In the latter part of the decade Irving and Van Hise's studies of the 
iron deposits of the Lake Superior region had demonstrated that they 
had been deposited from solution in descending or meteoric waters, 
whose downward course had been arrested by some impervious base- 
ment—sometimes a dike, sometimes a bed in a synclinal basin — and 
that during this time of stagnation their load of iron oxide had been 
laid down as a metasomatic replacement of the inclosing rock, a de- 
scensionist theory, but of essentially modern type. 

In 1893 appeared the well-known paper, "" The Genesis of Ore 
Deposits," by Posepny, for ten years professor of this branch of the 
science at the School of Mines in Pribram, Bohemia. Although 
Posepny 's views were bj'^ no means universally accepted by geologists, 
especially in America, all agreed that his work constituted a most 
valuable contribution to the ,science by its clear definitions of the 
questions involved and their masterly scientific discussi(m. The 
great majority of ore deposits Posepny considered to be of later 
origin than the inclosing rocks, even those that are found in stratified 
rocks in apparent conformity with the bedding. Further, that they 
have been deposited by precipitation from waters of the deep circu- 
lation below the ground-water leA'el. The ground water he conceived 
descends by capillarity through rock interstices over large areas, to 
rise again at a few points through open channels under the influence 
of heat. It derives its mineral matter from the barysphere, or deep 
region, where the rocks are richer in metallic minerals than near the 
surface, and subsequently deposits them in open spaces as it asc(^nds. 
These spaces are either spaces of discission (rock fractures) or spaces 
of solution, the latter sometimes being formed by ascending thermal 
waters, even where no i)revious crack exists. 



332 THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 

Fresh as he was from his controversy with Sandberger over the 
lateral-secretion theory, which he had disproved, at least in its appli- 
cation to the Pfil)rani de]:)Osits. he was inclined to view with disfavor 
anything that flavored of lateral secretion; hence, while admitting 
that the presence of minute quantities of the metals in eruptive rocks 
leads to the surmise that they had brought the Avhole series of hea\y 
metals up from the barysphere into the lithosphere or upper crust, 
he preferred to assume, in the cases which the American geologists 
had explained as derivation from eruptive rocks in the vicinity of the 
deposits, that the mineral contents had been brought up by thermal 
Avaters directly from the barysphere. Likewise, in the limestone 
deposits, which their studies s1k)w to have been formed by metaso- 
matic replacement, he thought that they nnist have overlooked some 
evidence of crustification, and still held to the opinion that such 
extensive deposits must be mainly the filling of open spaces. Al- 
though not explicitly stated, it is evident that he regarded the water 
of his deep circulation as mainly of meteoric origin. 

Of great practical value Avas the clear idea conveyed to the mind 
of his readers of the distinction between the oxidized or altered min- 
erals and the original or sul])hide minerals of an ore deposit, a dis- 
tinction i)reviously ])ointed out, though less emphatically, by Em- 
mons " and others. 

In the same year appeared the first of a series of important articles 
on the formation of ore deposits by the Norwegian geologist, J. H. L. 
Vogt, in which, as opposed to Posepny's views, so nnich more impor- 
tance is given to igneous agencies that their different standpoints 
recall the antagonisms of the old Neptunist and Plutonic schools. 
The petrographic studies of Vogt and Brogger had disclosed in basic 
dikes a tendency of the heavier minerals to concentrate near the 
borders. P'ollowing out the suggestion offered by this observation, 
Vogt had i)roved by field study that certain titaniferous iron ores 
were actual sc^gi'cgations in the eruptive magma previous to its final 
consolidatiou. leased on pctrogi-aphic studies made by Bnigger and 
himself, and jjersonal observations on ore deposits, ])rincipally in 
Norway, \'ogt delined two methods of formation of oi'e deposits as 
the direct result of igni'ous action: 

1. Viy magmatic segreoation. 

2. Bv eru|)ti\(- aftei-actiou of juieumatolysis (a term first used by 
Bunsen lo (lescril)e the combined action of gases and water). 

Tn the first class (of a(hnittediy infreiiuent occurrence) are titanif- 
erous iron ores, chroinite. and otiier metallic segregations in basic 
eruptive rocks. In the second class, connnencing with tin and apatite 
veins, he included, as time went on, increasingly mnnerous types of 



o Colorado Scientific Society, vol. u, pt. ii, 1886, p. 99. 



THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY (JONSIDKRED. 333 

deposits. This Mas in, one sense a revival of de Beaiiinoiit's theories, 
l)nt the moileni stan(l|)()int difTei-ed in that the existence of a liquid, 
molten interioi' of the earth had ))een dis|)r(>ved hy teri'estrial physi- 
cists. Vo^t held that as no connnnnication conld be established 
between ore deposits and a heavy interior, they ninst have been 
deri\'ed from a crust, say. 10. -J;'), or 50 kilometers in thickness, and in 
great measure the r(>snlt of ei-iiptive ])i'ocesses within that crust. 

Ennnons (in 181)8) acknowledged the importance of the magmatic 
concentrations of metals in eruptive rock, but thought that in most 
cases such accumuhitions must have l)een further concentrated in 
order to produce economically valuable ore deposits. 

During the second decade the influence of Posepny's paper was 
felt in an increased adherence among outside geologists and mining 
engineers to the ascension theorv. Vogt's views received less atten- 
tion in this country, because for a long time no ore deposits were 
studied to Avhich they were found to be applical)le. The first case 
was that of the titaniferous magnetites of the Adirondacks studied 
by Kemp, who published his results in 1898. 

The year 1900 Avas rendered important in the progi-ess of theo- 
retical views on ore deposition by the simultaneous appearance of 
Principles Controlling Deposition of Ores, by Van Hise; Secondary 
Enrichment, by Emmons and Weed, and Metasomatic Processes, by 
Lindgren, and by the discussions Avhich they prompted. 

Van Rise's article was a broad, philosophic treatment, based on 
experimental data, of the whole question of underground circulation 
as bearing on ore deposition. It wx:)uld be impracticable to give here 
any complete abstract of his paper, which is probably familiar to 
most of you. and onlv a brief statement of such points as bear on the 
general processes heretofore alluded to Avill be attempted. His dis- 
cussion is practically confined to ore bodies deposited from aqueous 
solutions, which, he considers, embrace the larger proportion of 
workable deposits, and he holds that the waters from which these 
deposits have been made are chiefly of meteoric origin. Their circu- 
lation is in part descending, in part lateral moving, and in part 
ascending, and during each of these movements they may take up 
or deposit metallic minerals according as conditions favor either 
action. This circulation takes place in openings in rocks, mostly pro- 
duced by fracture, and hence is confined to the outer portion of the 
crust, which he has defined as a zone of fracture as distinguished 
from a deeper zone, that of flowage, where, under accunndated 
pressure, deformation produces no macroscopic openings. Its gen- 
eral tendency is to concentrate from the small openings into larger or 
trunk channels. The deposits from these waters are distinguished- 
as concentrations (1) from ascending waters alone; (2) from de- 
scending waters alone, and (3) first from ascending and second from 



334 THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 

(lescoiuiiiiiLj waters. In prevailing composition the first class are 
sulphides, tellnrides, etc.; the second oxides or oxide salts, while the 
third are chiefly the one or the other, according as they Avere formed 
above or beloAv the ground-water level. 

Emmons and Weed, coming to the subject from a different but 
somewhat narrower standpoint — that of a practical field study, 
extending over seA^eral yeiirn — explained the frequent occurrence of 
bonanzas, or exceptionally rich j^ortions of deposits just below the 
oxidized zone or ground-water level, as the result of leaching by sur- 
face waters of the upper portions of these deposits and tlieir rede])o- 
sition as sulphides in contact with preexisting metallic sulphides 
(especially pyrite) in the zone below. Through similar processes of 
chemical reasoning and with a similar disregard of Posepny's 
assumption that the ground-Avater level forms an effective barrier 
separating the action of the surface or vadose Avaters from that of 
the deep circulation, all three arrived at the same general conclusion 
Avith regard to the continuance of rich ore in depth, a cpiestion which 
has occupied the attention of geologists and miners since the days of 
AVerner. This conclusion Avas that in most ore deposits a deeper 
region exists beyond the influence of surface Avaters in which the ore 
is of comparatiA'ely Ioav and uniform grade. Van Hise even Avent 
so far as to say that in depth all deposits avouIcI become loAV-grade 
pyritic ores, and that all veins Avould eA'entually wedge out. 

De Launay, in his generalizations on Mexican deposits, had already 
recognized three zones: (1) an upper oxidized zone, (2) a middle 
zone of rich sulphides, and (3) a loAver zone of loAv-gracle sulphides. 
He assumed the enrichment of the middle zone had been by descend- 
ing Avaters, Init 2:)laced it aboA'e the ground-water or hydrostatic le\"el, 
Avhich in many A"eins had probably been displaced since their original 
formation. 

In his article " On metasonuitic processes in fissure veins," Lindgren 
placed this theory for the first time on a scientific basis of chemical 
a))d microscopical study, and by a classification of veins according to 
the predcmiinant metasomatic mineral or process involved he made its 
applicaticm much clearer to the student and obserA'er. In his closing 
remarks he suggested that of late sufficient attention had not been 
given to the French theory of emanations from eriiptiA^' magmas, and 
that in the case of metals with Ioav critical temperature they nuiy ha\"e 
first been carried up under pneumatolytic conditions and Avith the aid 
of mineralizers Avhile still aboA^e the critical temperature, until they 
reached the zone of circulating atmospheric Avaters. 

His paper '' On contact deposits,'' 1001, folloAving out this sug- 
gestion, serA^ed a useful genetic purpose by calling attenti(,n to and 
clearly defining a group of deposits for Avhich a pneumatolytic origin 
would readily be admitted, but of wdiich no important examples had 



IIIKOHIKS OK OHK l)ISI'( )SITI()N 1 1 ISTOHICALLV CONSIDERED. 835 

yet Ihvii studied in America. Tlic tcrni " contiU'l (l('i)()sii,s," wliicli 
had hitherto hccii loosely appiiiMl to ail deposits, without rej^ard to 
ori<rin. which happened to lie near the contact of any two l)odi(s of 
rock, was restricted l)V Ids defiintion to those occiin-in*; near the con- 
tact of iiiiH'ous intrnsi\('s witli calcai'eous beds. They are chai-acter- 
ized by iri-e<>idarity of form, the association of iron oxide and 
suli)hides of the metals ^vith various lime silicates, <renerally called 
'• contact " minerals because they are found to l>e the result of contact 
metamor|)hism. Typical developments of these contact minerals 
near Christiania in Norway, in the Banat in Servia, in Tyrol, Italy, 
and elsewhere had been the subject of repeated study and discussion 
amon<i- European «:;e()logists since the middle of the century, but the 
metallic deposits coiniected with them being generally of subordinate 
economic importance had, up to the time of Vogt, not been considered 
worthy of a distinct place in the classification of ore deposits. 

The importance of pneumatolysis in forming ore deposits was em- 
phasized by the discovery on this continent, soon after the publication 
of Lindgren's paper, of a numl)er of economically impoi'tant deposits, 
especially of copper, which wovdd come within his definition of con- 
tact deposits. 

From a more theoretical point of view the contemporaneous paper 
of Kemp, " The role of igneous rocks in the formation of veins," pre- 
sented a more decided opposition to the view so emphatically voiced 
l\v Van Hise. that the majority of our ore deposits have been formed 
by precipitation from circulating w^aters of original meteoric origin. 
In this Kemp maintains that ground-w ater circulation is not sufficient 
to account for the majority of ore deposits, but that igneous rocks 
must have furnished not only their metallic contents, but a large, if 
not predominating, proportion of the w^aters which brought them into 
their present position. 

The controversy which had thus arisen as to the relative importance 
in the formation of ore deposits of waters of meteoric or of igneous 
origin has more recently received a further impulse in the discussions 
provoked by the presentation of proposed genetic classifications of ore 
deposits by AY. H. AVeed and J. E. Spurr. These geologists took an 
even more advanced position than Vogt in regard to the direct influ- 
ence of igneous agencies in the formation of ore deposits, adding 
siliceous segregations to his class of magmatic differentiation products 
and very greatly enlarging the scope of his pneunuitolytic class. The 
influence of these new views is already seen in the current literature 
on ore deposits, especially in articles Avhere the author, though not in 
possession of full data, still feels it incumbent upon him to present 
some tentative hypothesis of origin for the deposits wdiich he is 
describing. 



336 THEORIES OF ORE DISPOSITION HISTORICALLY CONSIDERED. 

RESULTS ACIIIEVED. 

The wide divero^ence of \iews shown by these discussions to be held 
by recognized authorities on the subject might lead one to conclude 
that we are as far as ever from a universal agreement on accepted 
theories. A more deliberate consideration of the progress of investi- 
gation and verification during this last period, which has been but too 
briefly and imperfectly set forth in the preceding pages, will show, 
however, that the advance in this direction has been real and pernui- 
nent as far as regards the later stages of ore foruiation. which are 
more susceptible of actual proof, and that the disagreement lies rather 
with the ultinuite or more theoretical sources of derivation, which 
must always remain to some extent matters of opinion. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. 

It being considered unadvisable to print a full list of works con- 
sulted during the preparation of the preceding paper, titles of those 
only that contain important bibliographies on ore deposition are 
appended. 

A. G. Wei-ner : Neue Theorie voii der Entsteluing der Giinge. Fi'eiberg, 1701. 
J. Walflanf v. Waldenstein : Die hesonderen Lagerstatten der nutzbaren Min- 

oralien. Wion, 1824. 
K. A. Kiihn : Ilaiidbuch der (Jeogiiosie. 11'" band. Freiberg. ]S."'>»). 
I*. V. (V)tta n. 11. Miiller : Gangstiidien, V band. Freil)erg. l.S.">0. 
.robanu (Jriimii : Die Lagerstiitten der imtzbaren Miiieralien. Prag. IStJO. 
Goiizalo y Tarin : Memorias de la comite del iiiapa geologico de Espafia. Madrid, 

1888. Tom. II, pp. 78-181. 
K. Fucbs et L. De Launay : Traite des gites iiiineruux et metalliferes. I. I'aris, 

1893. 
K. A. V. Zittell : History of Geology and Paleontology. Translation by Mrs. 

Ogilvie-Gordon. London. 10(11. 
Richard Beck : Lehre you den Erzlagerstiitten. Berlin, 1!X)1. 2d ed., 190o. 



ON MOUNTAINS AND MANKIND.^ 



By Doicii.AS \\'. FuKSiiFiEij). 



Wo havo all of lis seen hills, or what we call hills, from tho mon- 
strous proluhoraiices of the Andes and the Himalaya to such j^uny 
pimples as lie about the edges of the Cambridge fens. Next to a 
Avaterfall. the first natural ol)ject (according to my own experience) 
to impress itself on a child's mind is a hill, some spot from which he 
can enlarge his horizon. Hills, and still more mountains, attract the 
human imagination and curiosity. The child soon asks, " Tell me, 
how were mountains' made? " a question easier to ask than to 
answer, which occupied the lifetime of the fat!r>r of mountain 
science, I)e Saussure. But there are mountains and mountains. 
Of all natural objects the most impressive is a vast snowy peak 
rising as a white island above the waves of green hills — a 
fragment of the arctic world left behind to commemorate its 
past predominance — and bearing on its broad shoulders a gar- 
land of the alpine flora that has been destroyed on the lower 
gi-ound by the rising tide of heat and drought that succeeded the last 
glacial epoch. Midsununer snows, whether seen from the slopes of 
the Jura or the plains of Lombardy, above the weaves of the Euxine 
(»r through the glades of the tropical forests of Sikhim, stir men's 
iuiagiuatious and rouse their curiosity. Before, however, we turn to 
consider some of the physical aspects of mountains, I shall venture, 
speaking as I am here to a literary audience and in a university town, 
lo dwell for a few minutes on their j^lace in literature — in the mirror 
that reflects in turn the mind of the passing ages. For geography is 
concerned with the interaction l)etween man and Nature in its widest 
sense. There has been recently a good deal of writing on this sub- 
ject — I can not say of discussion, for of late years writers have gen- 
erally taken the same view. That view is that the love of mountains 
is an invention of the nineteenth century, and that in previous ages 
they had been generally looked on eithei- with indiifetence or positive 

a The address delivered to Section E (Geography) at the Cambridge meeting 
of .the British Association, 10O4. Reprinted from autlior's revised copy. 
S.M 190-i 22 337 



338 ON MOUNTAINS AND MANKIND. 

dislike, rising in some instances to abhorrence. Extreme examples 
have been repeatedly quoted. We have all heard of the bishop who 
thought the devil was allowed to put in mountains after the fall of 
man ; of the English scribe in the tenth century who invoked " the 
bitter blasts of glaciers and the Pennine host of demons" on the 
violators of the charters he was employed to draft. The examples on 
the other side have been comparatively neglected. It seems time they 
were insisted on. 

The view I hold firmly, and which I wish to place before you to-day, 
is that this popular belief that the love of mountains is a taste, or, as 
some would say, a mania of advanced civilization, is erroneous. On 
the contrary, I allege it to be a healthy, primitive, and almost uni- 
versal human instinct. I think I can indicate how and Avhy the 
opposite belief has been fostered by eminent writers. They have 
taken too narrow a time limit for their investigation. They have 
compared the nineteenth century not with the preceding ages, but 
with the eighteenth. They have also taken too narrow a space limit. 
They have hardly cast their eyes beyond western Europe. Within 
their own limits I agree with them. The eighteenth century wag, as 
we all knoAv, an age of formality. It was the age of Palladian porti- 
coes, of interminable avenues, of formal gardens, and formal style 
in art, in literature, and in dress. Mountains, which are essentially 
romantic and Gothic, were naturally distasteful to it. The artist says, 
" they will not compose," and they became obnoxious to a generation 
that adored composition, that thought more of the cleverness of the 
artist than of the aspects of nature he used as the material of his 
work. There is a great deal to be said for the century; it })ro- 
duced some admirable results. It Avas a contented and material 
century, little stirred by enthusiasms and aspirations and vague 
desires. It was a phase in human progress, but in nuuiy respects it 
was rather a reaction than a development from what had gone before. 
Sentiment and taste have their tides like the sea, or, we may here 
perhaps more appropriately say, their oscillations like the glaciers. 
The imagination of primitive man abhors a void; it peoples the 
regions it finds uninhabitable with aery sprites, with '^ Pan and 
father Sylvanus and the sister nymphs; " it worships on high phutes 
and reveres them as the abode of Deity. Christianity came and 
denounced the vague symbolism and personification of natui-e in 
which the pagan had recognized and worshipped the Unseen. It 
found the objects of its devotion not in the external world, but in the 
highest moral qualities of man. Delphi heard the cry, " Great Pan 
is dead ! " But the voice was false. Pan is immortal. Every vil- 
lager justifies etymology by remaining more or less of a pagan. Other 
than villagers have done the same. The monk driven out of the 
world by its wickedness fell in love with the wilderness in which lie 



ON MOUNTAINS AND MANKIND. 33U 

soii«>h< ivfii<iv, and soon loarncd to ^ivo i)ractical proof of his love of 
scciuMT l)y his clioico of sites for his r('Ii<>;ious houses. But the litera- 
(uic of the eiiihteeulh ('(Milury was not written by monks or eountry- 
nien, or by men of worhl-wide curiosity and adventure like the 
Italians of the Kenaissance or oui- Klizahethans. It was the product 
of a pi-actical conunon-sense epoch which looked on all waste places, 
lieaths like Ilindhead, or hills like the IIi<yhlan(ls, as blemishes in the 
sch(>nie of the universe, not having yet recognized their final purpose 
;is o(,I t" links or gynuiasiums. Intellectual life was concentrated in cities 
and courts; it despised the country. Books were written by towns- 
men, dwellers in towns which had not grown into vast cities, and 
wdiose denizens therefore had not the longing to escape from their 
homes into jMirer air that we have to-day. They abused the Alps 
frankly, liut all they saw of them was the comparatively dull car- 
riage passes, and these they saAv at the worst time of year. Hasten- 
ing to Rome for Easter, they traversed the Maurienne wdiile the 
ground w as still brown wnth frost and patched untidily with half- 
melted snowdrifts. It is no wonder that Gray and Richardson, hav- 
ing left spring in the meadows and orchards of Chambery, grumbled 
at the wintry as])ect of Lanslebou.rg. 

That at the end of the eighteenth century a literary lady of western 
Europe should have preferred a Paris gutter to the lake of Geneva 
is an annising caricature of the spirit of the age that was passing 
away, but it is no proof that the love of mountains is a new mania 
and that all earlier ages and peoples looked on them wdth indifference 
or dislike. Wordsworth and Byron and Scott in this country, 
Rousseau and Goethe, De Saussure and his school abroad broke the 
ice, but it was the ice of a winter frost, not of a glacial period. 

Consider for a moment the literature of the tw^o people who have 
most influenced European thought — the Jews and the Greeks. I need 
hardly quote a book that before people quarreled over education was 
known to every child — the Bible. I would rather refer you to a 
delightful poem in rhyming German verse, written in the seventeenth 
century, by a Swdss author, Rebman, in which he relates all the great 
things that happened on mountains in Jew^ish history; hoAV Solomon 
enjoyed his Sommerfrische on Lebanon; how Moses disappeared 
on a mountain top and Elias Avas looked for among the mountains; 
how kings and proj)hets found their help among the hills; how 
closely the hills of Palestine are connected with the story of the 
Gospels. 

Consider, again, Greece, where I have just been wandering. Did 
the Greeks pay no regard to their mountains? They seized eagerly 
on any striking piece of hill scenery and connected it with a legend 
or a shrine. They took theii' highest mountain, broad-backed Olym- 
pus, for the home of the gods; their most conspicuous mountain. 



340 ON MOTNTAINS AND MANKIND. 

Parnassus, for llic home of poetr}'. Tlu'y found in the cliffs of 
Delphi a dwelliuii- for their greatest oracle and a center for their, 
patriotism. One who has lately stood on the toiD of Parnassus and 
seen the first rays of the sun as it springs from the waves of the 
.Egean strike its snows, while Attica and 15(rotia and EulKiea still lay 
in deep shadow under his feet, will appreciate the famous lines of 
Sophocles, wdiich I wull not quote, as I am uncertain how you may 
pronounce (jreek in this university. You may remember, too, that 
Lucian makes Hermes take Charon, Avlien he has a day out from hell, 
to the twin-crested summit and show him the panoranui of land and 
sea, of rivers and famous cities. The Vale of Tempe, the deep gap 
between Olympus and Ossa, beautiful in its great red cliffs, fountains, 
and spreadiirg plane trees, was part of a Ivoman's classical tour. 
The superb buttresses in which Taygetus breaks dow'n on the valley 
of the P]urotas w-ere used by the Spai'tans for other purposes besides 
the disposal of criminals and weakly babies. The middle regions — 
the lawns above the Langada Pass, "" virginibus bacchata Lacienis 
Taygeta " — are frequented to this day as a summer resort by Spartan 
damsels. The very top, the great rock that from a height of 8,000 
feet looks down through its woods of oaks and Ale])po pines on the 
Iwin bays of the southern sea, is a place of immemorial pilgrimages. 
It is now occupied by a chapel framed in a tiny court, so choked with 
snow at the beginning of June that I took the ridge of the chapel 
roof for a dilapidated stoneman. 1 have no tim(> to-day to look for 
evidence in classical literature, to refer to the discriminating epithets 
applied in it to mountain scenes. 

A third race destined ajjparently to play a great part in the 
Avorld's history — the Japanese — are ancient mountain lovers. We 
are all aware that Fusiyama to the Japanese is (as Ararat to the 
Armenians) a national synd)ol ; that its ascent is constantly made 
by bands of jDilgrims; that it is depicted in every aspect. Those Avho 
have read the pleasant book of Mr. Weston, who. as English chaplain 
for some years at Kobi, bad exceptional ()i)p<)rtunities of travel in 
the interior, will remember how often he met with shrines and tem- 
ples on the summits of the mountains, and how he found pilgrims 
who fre(|tiented (hem in the belief that tiiey fell there more I'eadily 
into sj)iritual tran<'es. The .Jai)anese minister when he attended 
Mr. AVeston's lecture at the Alpine Clul), told us that his countrymen 
never climbed mountains without a sei-ious — that is to say, a relig- 
ious — object. 

India anil China would add to my evidence had I knowledge and 
time enough to refer to their literature. 1 remember Tennyson 
pointing out to me, in a volume of translations from the Chinese, a 
poem, w^ritten about the date of our King Alfred, in praise of a 
picture of a mountain lan(lscai)e. liut I must return to the six- 



ON MOUNTAINS AND MANKIND. 341 

<(MMilli !iii(l s('vento(Mitli rontiirios in Europo; T may go earlier — evon 
liMck (() Daiito. ITis allusions (o nionntain scenery an^ fVe(|iient; 
his \'iri:il liad all the onift of an Alpine rock climber. Read Leon- 
ardo da X'inci's Notes, Conrad (lesner's Ascent of Pilatus; study 
I lie iiari-atives of tiie Alj)ine pivcursors Mr. (\)olid<jfe has collected 
and annotated with admii-al>le industi'v in (he pi-odii^'ions volume 
he has rei-ently l)roui»ht out." 

It is impossible for me hei'e (o nudtii)ly proofs of my argument, 
to ([uote (>ven a selection from the passages that show an authentic 
(•nthusiasm for mountains (hat may be culled from writers of vari- 
ous nations prior (o )(>()() a. n. I unist content myself witli the 
following specimens which will ])robaI)ly l)e new to most of my 
hear<'i-s. 

r)enoi( Afard was a professor of (ireek and ITebrew at Bern, and 
;> friend of the great Conrad Gesner (I call him great, for he com- 
bined (he (lualities of a man of science and a man of letters, was one 
of the fathers of botany as well as of mountaineering, and w^as, 
in his many sidedness, a typical figure of the Renaissance). Marti, 
HI (he year 1558 or 1559, wrote as follows of the view from his native 
city : 

" These are the mountains which form our pleasure and delight " 
(the Latin is better — " deliciie nostrse, nostrique amores ") " when 
we gaze at them from the higher parts of our city and admire their 
mighty peaks and broken crags that threaten to fall at any moment. 
Here we watch the risings and settings of the sun and seek signs of 
the weather. In them we find food not only for our eyes and our 
minds but also for our bellies;'' and he goes on to enumerate the 
dairy j)roducts of the Oberland and the happy life of its population. 
I ([note again this good man : " Who, then, would not admire, love, 
willingly visit, explore, and climb places of this sort? I assuredly 
should call those who are not attracted by them mushrooms, stupid, 
dull fishes, and slow tortoises " (" fungos, stupidos insulsos pisces, 
lentoscpie chelones''). ''In truth, I can not describe the sort of 
affection and natural love with which I am drawn to mountains, 
so that I am never haj)[)ier than on the mountain crests, and there 
ai-e no wanderings dearer to me than those on the mountains.'"' 
''They are the theater of the Lord, displaying monuments of past 
ages, such as precipices, rocks, peaks, and chasms, and never-melting 
glaciers; "' and so on through numy eloquent paragraphs. 

I will oidy add two sentences from the preface to Simler's Vallesiae 
et Alpimn Descriptio, first published in 1574, which seem to me a 
strong piece of evidence in favor of my view : " In the entire district. 



" ".Tosias Seinler et les orisines (1(> r.Mpiiiisnia jiiscju'eu ICOO," par W. A. B. 
Coolitlge. Allier Freres. (Jronol»le. 



342 ON MOUNTAINS AND MANKIND. 

and particularly in the very lofty ranges by which the Vallais is on all 
sides surrounded, wonders of nature offer themselves to our view and 
admiration. With my countrymen, many of them have through 
familiarity lost their attraction; but foreigners are overcome at the 
mere sight of the Alps, and regard as marvels what we through habit 
pay no attention to." 

Mr. Coolidge, in his singularl}^ interesting footnotes, goes on to 
show that the books that remain to us are not isolated instances of a 
feeling for mountains in the age of the Renaissance. The mountains 
themselves bear, or once bore, records even more impressive. Most of 
us have climbed to the picturesque old castle at Thun and seen beyond 
the rushing Aar the green heights of the outposts of the Alps, the 
Stockhorn, and the Niesen. Our friend Marti, who climbed the 
former peak about 1558, records that he found on the sunnnit " tituli, 
rythmi, et proverbia saxis inscripta una cum imaginibus et nominibus 
auctorum. Inter alia cujusdam docti et montium anujenitate capti 
observare licebat illud : 

"'0 TC0V opcov i'poos apiffToz.^'' 

" The love of mountains is best." In those five words some Swiss 
professor anticipated the doctrine of Ruskin and the creed of Leslie 
Stephen, and of all men who have found mountains the best compan- 
ions in the vicissitudes of life. 

In the annals of art it would be easy to find additional proof of the 
attention paid by men to mountains three to four hundred years ago. 
The late Josiah Gilbert, in a charming but too little-known volume. 
Landscape in Art, has shown how many great painters depicted in 
their backgrounds their native hills. Titian is the most conspicuous 
example. 

It will perhaps be answered that this love of mountains led to no 
practical result, bore no visible fruit, and therefore can have been but 
a sickly plant. Some of my hearers may feel inclined to point out 
that it was left to the latter half of the nineteenth century to found 
climbers' clubs. It would take too long to adduce all the practical 
reasons wdiich delayed the appearance of these fine fruits of peace and 
an advanced civilization. I am content to remind you that the love 
of mountains and the desire to climb them are distinct tastes. They 
are often united, but their union is accidental, not essential. A pas- 
sion for golf does not necessarily argue a love of levels. I would sug- 
gest that more outward and visible signs than is generally imagiued 
of the familiar relations between men and mountains in early times 
may be found. The choicest spots in the Alpine region — Chamonix, 
Engelberg, Disentis, Einsiedlen, Pesio, the (irande Chartreuse — were 
seized on by recluses; the Alpine Baths were in full ^wing at quite 



iiii early dalo. T will not count the Swiss Baden, of which a geo^- 
rai)lier, who was also a i)oi)e, ^-Eneas Silvius (Pius II), records the 
attractions, for it is in (he Jura, not the Alps; but Pfiifers, where 
wounded warriors went lo he healed, was a scene of dissipation, and 
the waters of St. Moritz were vaunted as superseding wine. I may 
he excused, since I wrote this particular passage myself a good many 
years ago, for quoting a few sentences hearing on this point from 
Murray's Ilandhoolv to Switzerland. '' In the sixteenth century fifty 
treatises dealing with tAventy-one ilill'erent resorts were published. St. 
Moritz, which had been brought into notice by I*aracelsus (died 1541), 
was one of the most famous baths. In 1501 Matthew Schinner, the 
famous Pi-ince P»isliop of Sion, built ' a magnificent hotel ' at Leuker- 
bad. to which the wealthy were carried up in panniers on the back of 
mules. Brieg, Gurnigel, near Rern, the Baths of Masino, Tarasp, 
and Pfafers were also popular in early times. Leonardo da Vinci 
mentions the Baths of Bormio, and Gesner Avent there." 

It is not, however, with the emotional influences or the picturesque 
aspect of mountains that science concerns itself, but with their phys- 
ical examination. If I have lingered too long on my preamble I can 
only plead as an excuse that a love of one's subject is no bad qualifi- 
cation for dealing with it, and that it has tempted me to endeavor to 
show^ you grounds for believing that a love of mountains is no modern 
affectation, but a feeling as old and as widespread as humanity. 

Their scientific investigation has naturally been of comparatively 
modern date. There are a few .passages about the effects of altitude, 
there are orographical descriptions more or less accurate in the 
authors of antiquity. But for attempts to explain the origin of 
mountains, to investigate and account for the details of their struc- 
ture, we shall find little before the notes of Leonardo da Vinci, that 
marvelous man, wdio combined, perhaps, more than any one who has 
ever lived the artistic and the scientific mind. His ascent of Monte 
Boso about 1511, a mountain which may be found under this name on 
the Italian ordnance map on the spur sej^arating Val Sesia and the 
Biellese, was the first ascent by a physical observer. Gesner, with all 
his mountain enthusiasm, found a scientific interest in the Alps 
mainly, if not solely, in their botany. 

The phenomenon which first drew men of science to Switzerland 
was the Grindelwald glaciers — " miracles of nature " they called them. 
Why these glaciers in particular, you may ask, when there are so 
many in the Alps? The answer is obvious. Snow and ice on the 
•' mountain tops that freeze " are no miracle. But when two great 
tongues of ice w'ere found thrusting themselves down among meadows 
and corn and cottages, u])setting barns and covering fields, and even 
the marble quarries from which the citizens of Bern dug their man- 



yjiy IVIV^UIN L.'lllNO AL\U iVlAlN JVIXN U. 



telpieces, there was obviously somethino; outside tlie oi-dlnary proc- 
esses of nature, and therefore miraculous. 

Swiss correspondents connnunicated with the Ro^^al Society the 
latest news as to the proceedings of these unnnatural ice monsters, 
while the wise men of Ziirich and Bern wrote lectures on them. 
Glacier theories began. Early in the eighteenth century Hotti)igei-, 
Ca])])eller, Scheuchzer. that worthy man who got members of our 
Koyal Society to p&y for his pictures of flying dragons, contriliuted 
their (juota of crude speculation. But it Avas not till 1741 that Mont 
Blanc and its glaciers were brought into notoriety by our young- 
countrymen, Pococke and Windham, and became an attraction to the 
mind and an object to the ambition of the student whose name was 
destined to be associated with them. Horace Benedict de Saussure, 
born of a scientific family, the nephcAV of Bonnet, the Genevese botan- 
ist and philosopher, who has become known to the world as a moun- 
taineer and the climber of Mont Blanc, came twenty years later. In 
truth, he was far more of a mountain traveler and a scientific observer, 
a geological student, than a climber. When looking at his purjjle 
silk frock coat (carefully preserved in his country house on the shore 
of the Lake of Geneva) one realizes the difference between the man 
who climbed Mont Blanc in that garment and the modern gynniast. 
who thinks himself par excellence the mountaineer. 

De Saussure did not confine himself to Savoy or to one group; he 
wandered far and wide over the Alpine region, and the four volumes 
of his voyages contain, besides the narratives of his sojourn on the 
(Jol du Geant and the ascent of Mount Blanc, a portion of the fruit of 
these wanderings. 

The reader who would ap]ireciate De Saussure's claim as the 
founder of the scientific exploration of mountains must, however, be 
referred to the List of Agenda on questions calling for investigation 
placed at the end of his last volume. They explain the comparative 
indifference shown by De Saussure to the problems connected with 
glacial movement and action. His attention was absorbed in the 
larger question of earth structure, of geology, to which the sections 
exposed by mountains offered, he thought, a key; he was bitten by 
the contemporary desire for '' a theory of the earth," by the taste of 
the time for generalizations for which the facts were not always 
ready. At the same tim(\ his own intellect was j^erhaps somewhat 
deficient iu tlie intuitive faculty — the grasp of the possible or prob- 
able bearing of known facts by which the greatest discoverers sug- 
gest theories first and prove them afterwards. 

The scliool of De Saussure at Geneva died out after having pro- 
duced Bourrit, the tourist who gloried in being called the historian 
of the Alps, a man of pleasant self-conceit and warm enthusiasm, and 
De Luc, a mechanical inventor, who ended his life as reader to Queen 



ON MOTTNTMNS AND MANKIND. 345 

Charlotte at Windsor, where he Hits across Miss l'>uniey's pages as 
the friend of Ilerschel at Sh)u;ih and the jest of tipsy royal dukes. 
Oddly enoii<2;h, the lii'st soinid oiiess as to <;laeier nioveinent was made 
by one Bordier, who had no scientific pretensions. I reprinted man}'' 
years ai;o the sin<»:ulai- passa<>e in which he c()nij)are(l <j^laciei- ice to 
" cire amollie," soft wax, "flexible et ductile juscpTa un certain 
point,"' and described it as flowin<>- in tlu^ manner of li(juids {AJ p. r/., 
]X, 3'27). He added this remarkable su«i«i-estioii, foreshadowing:: the 
investipitions of Professoi- Kichter and M. T'oi-el : "It is very de- 
sirable that thei'e should be at Chamonix some one capable of observ- 
ing the glaciei's for a series of years and comparing their advance 
antl oscillations with meteorological records.^' To the school of 
Geneva succeeded the school of Neuchatel. Desor and Agassiz; the 
feat of I)e Saussure was rivaled on the Jungfrau and the Finster- 
aarhorn by the jNIeyers of Bei-n. They in turn were succeeded by the 
British school, Forbes and Tynthill, lieilly and AVills, in ISlO-l'sOO. 

In 1857 the Ali)ine CMub was founded in this country. In the half 
century since that date the nations of western Europe have enndated 
one another in forming similar bodies, one of the objects of which has 
been to collect and set in oi'der information as to the mountains and to 
further their scientific as well as their geographical exploration. 

What bowlders, or rathei' pebbles, can we add to the enormous mo- 
raine of moilern Alpine literature — a moraine the lighter portions of 
which it is to be hoped, for the sake of posterity, that the torrent of 
time may speedily nudce away with ? 

For fifty' years I have loved and at frequent intervals wandered and 
climl)ed ill the Alps. I have had something of a grand j)assion for 
the Caucasus. I am on terms of visiting accjuaintance with the Pyre- 
nees and the Himalaya, the Apennines and the Algerian Atlas, the 
mountains of (ireece, Syria, Corsica, and Norway. I will try to set 
in order some observations and com])arisons suggested by these va- 
rious ex})eriences. 

As one travels east fi'om the Atlantic through the four great ranges 
of the Old ^^^)rld the peaks grow out not only in absolute height but 
also in abruptness of form and in elevation above the connecting 
ridges. The snow and ice region increases in a corresponding man- 
ner. The Pyrenees have few fine rock peaks except the Pic du Midi 
(rOs>au; its chief glacier sununits, the Yignenude, Mont Perdu, the 
Alaladetta, corres})()ud to the Titlis or the Buet in the Alps. The 
peaks of the Alps are infin.ite in their variety and admirable in their 
clear-cut outlines and graceful curves. But the central grou]) of the 
Caucasus, that which culminates in Dykhtau, Koshtantau, and Shkara, 
17,000 feet summits (Koshtantau falls only 120 feet below this figure), 
has even more stately j)eaks than those that cluster round Zernuitt. 

Seek the far eastern end of the Himalaya, visit Sikhim, and you 



346 ON MOUNTAINS AND MANKIND. 

will find the scale increased ; Siniolchiim, Jannu, and Kangchenjnnga 
are all j)ortenti()iis •■giants. To put it at a low average figure, the cliffs 
of their final peaks are half as high again as those of ]\Ionte Kosa and 
the Matterhorn. 

In all these chains you will find the same feature of watershed or 
partings l3'ing not in but behind the geological axis, which is often 
the line of gi'eatest peak elevation. This is the case in the Alps at 
the St. Gothard. in the Caucasus for some 40 miles west of the Dariel 
Pass, in the Ilinuilaya, in Sikhim and Nepal, where the waters (low- 
ing from the Tibetan Plateau slowly eat their \vay back behind 
Kangchenjunga and the Xepalese snows. The passes at their sources 
are found consequently to be of the mildest character — hills " like 
Wiltshire Downs," is the description given by a military explorer. 
It needs no great stretch of geological imagination to believe in the 
cutting back of the southern streams of Sikhim or the Alps, as for 
instance at the Maloya; but I confess that I can not see how the 
gorges of Ossetia, clefts cut through the central axis of the Caucasus, 
can be ascribed mainly to the action of water. 

I turn to the snow and ice region. Far more snow is deposited on 
the heights of the central Caucasus and the eastern Himalaya than 
on the Alps. It remains plastered on their precipices, forming 
hanging glaciers everywhere of the kind found on the northern, the 
Wengern Alp, face of the Jungfrau. Such a peak as the Weisshorn 
looks poor and bare compared with Tetnuld in the Caucasus or Siniol- 
chum in the Himalaya. The plastered sheets of snow between their , 
great bosses of ice are perpetually melting, their surfaces are grooved, 
so as to suggest fluted armor, by tiny avalanches and runnels. 

In the Aletsch glacier the Alps have a champion with which the 
Caucasus can not compete; but apart from this single exception the 
Caucasian glaciers are superior to the Alpine in extent and pictur- 
esqueness. Their surfaces present the features familial- to us in the 
Alps — ice falls, moulins, and earth cones. 

In Sikhim, on the contrary, the glaciers exhibit many novel fea- 
tures, due, no doubt, mainly to the great sun heat. In the lower i)()r- 
tion their surface is apt to be covered with the debris that has fallen 
from the impending clifts, so that little or no ice is visible from any 
distance. In the region below the neve there are very few crevasses, 
the ice heaves itself along in huge and rude undulati(ms, high, gritty 
mounds, separated by hollows often occupied by yellow pools which 
are connected by streams running in little icy ravines, a region excep- 
tionally tiresome, but in no way dangerous to the explorer. In steep 
places the alpine icefall is replaced by a feature I may best compare 
with a series of earth pillars, such as are found near Evolena, in 
Canton Valais, and elsewhere, and are figured in most text-books. 
The ice is shaped into a multitude of thin ridges and spires, resem- 



I 



ON MOUNTAINS AND MANKIND. 347 

hliiiij,- soiuowhat (he Nieves Penitentes of tho Andes, tlu)U<2:li toi-iucd 
in a dirt'erent material. 

(Jreat sun hoat a('tin<!: on surfaces uneqiuilly protected, combined in 
the latter case with the strain of sudden descent, is, no doubt, the 
cause of both phenomena. Generally the peculiarities of the great 
glaciers of Kangchenjunga may be attributed to a vertical sun, which 
renders the frozen material less liable to crack, less rigid, and more 
plastic. 

A glacier, as a rule, involves a moraine. Now, moraines are largely 
formed fi-om the material contributed by sul)aerial denudation, in 
plain words, by the action of heat and cold and moisture on the cliffs 
that border them. It is what falls on glacier, not that which it falls 
over, that mainly makes a moraine. The proof is that the moraines 
of a glacier which flows under no impending clifl's are puny com- 
l>ared with those of one that lies beneath great rock walls. 

Take, for example, the Norwegian glaciers of the Jostedals Brae 
and compare them with the Swiss. The former, falling from a great 
neve plain or snowfield, from which hardly a crag protrudes, are 
models of cleanliness. I may cite, as examples, the three fascinating 
glaciers of the Olden Valley. The Rosenlaui glacier in Switzerland 
owed the cleanliness which gave it a reputation fifty years ago, before 
its retirement from tourists' tracks, to a similar cause — a vast snow 
plateau, the AVetterkessel. 

One peculiarity very noticeable both in the Himalaya and the 
Caucasus I have never found satisfactorily accounted for. I refer 
to the long, grassy trenches lying between the lateral moraine and the 
hillside, which often seem to the mountain explorer to have been 
made by Providence to form grass paths for his benefit. They may 
possibly be due to the action of torrents falling from the hillside, 
which, meeting the moraine and constantly sweeping along its base, 
undermine it and keep a passage open for themselves. There are 
remarkable specimens of this formation on both sides of the Bezingi 
glacier, in the Caucasus, and on the north side of the Zemu glacier, in 
Sikhim. 

Water is one of the greatest features in mountain scenery. In 
Norway it is omnipresent. In this respect Scandinavia is a region 
apart; the streams of the more southern ranges are scanty compared 
with those of a region where the snowfall of two-thirds of the year is 
discharged in a few weeks. Greece stands at the opposite pole. By 
what seems a strange perversity of nature, its slender streams are apt 
to disappear underground, to reissue miles away in the great foun- 
tains that gave rise to so many legends. Arcadia is, for the most 
part, a dry upland, sadly wanting in the two elements of pastoral 
scenery, shady groves, and running brooks. 



348 ON MOUNTAINS AND MANKIND. 

The Alps are (listiiioiiislied by their subalpine hikes — 

Aiiiic laciis tniitos; te, Lari niaxime, teque 
Fhictilius (»t freniitu as>;urgtMis, Benace, inarino? 

of \'ii-<>:ih But perhaps even more interesting to the student are the 
lake basins that have been filled up, and thus suggest how similar 
lakes may have vanished at the base of other ranges. 

I know no more striking walk to any one interested in the past 
doings of glaciers than that along the ridge of the mighty moraine of 
the old glacier of Val d'Aosta, which sweeps out, a hill 500 feet high, 
known as '" La Serra," from the base of the Alps near Ivrea into the 
plain of Piedmont. Inclosed in its folds still lies the Lago di Viv- 
erone; but the Dora has long ago cut a gap in the rampart and 
drained the rest of the inclosed space, filling it up with the alluvial 
deposit of centuries. 

It is, however, the tarns rather than the great lakes of the Alps, 
which have been the chief subjects of scientific disputation. Their 
distribution is curious. They are found in great quantity in the Alps 
and Pyrenees, hardly at all in the Caucasus, and comparatively rarely 
in the part of the Himalaya I am acquainted with. 

A large-scale map will show that where tarns are most thickly 
dotted over the uplands the peaks rise to no great height above the 
ridges that connect them. This would seem to indicate that there 
has been comparatively little subaerial denudation in these districts, 
and consequently less material has been brought down to fill the hol- 
lows. Again, it is in gneiss and granitic regions that we find tarns 
most abundant — that is, where the harder and more compact I'ocks 
make the work of streams in tapping the basins more lengthy. The 
rarity of tarns in the highlands behind Kangchenjunga calls, per- 
haps, foi- explanation. AVe came ui)on many basins, but, whether 
formed by moi'aines or true rock basins, they had for the most part 
been filled up by alluvial deposits. 

In my opinion, the presence of tarns must be taken as an indica- 
tion that the ])orti()n of the range where they are found has, until a 
c()nq)aratively recent date, been under snow or ice. The foi-mer the- 
ory, still held, was that the ice scooped out their basins from the solid 
rock. I believe that it simi)ly kept scoured preexisting basins. The 
ice removed and the surroiniding slopes left bare, streams on the one 
hand lilled the basins with sediment, oi". on the other, tapped them by 
cutting clefts in their rims. This theory meets, at any rate, all the 
facts I have observed, and I may point out that the actual process of 
the destruction of tarns by such action may be seen going on under 
our eyes in numy places, notably in the glens of the Adainello group. 
Professor (Jarwood has lately em])]()yed his holidays in sounding 
many of the tarns of the St. (Jottliard groiij). and his results, I under- 
stand, tend to corroborate the conchisioiis stated. 



ON MOUNTAINS AND MANKIND. 349 

I desire here to reallinu iiiy conviction that snow and ice in the 
Wigh Alps are conservati\(' ai^ents; that tliey arrest the natural proc- 
esses of suha^rial denudation; that the scourin<i- woi-k done by a gla- 
cier is insi<;niHcant conii)ared with the hewin^^ and hackin<jf of frost 
and iMinning water on slopes exposed to the open sky without a roof 
of neve and glacier. 

The contrast between the work of these two agents was forced upon 
me many years ago while looking at the ground from which the Eiger 
(ilacier had then recently retreated. The rocks, it is true, had had 
tluMi- angles rubl)ed off by the glacier, but through their midst, (;ut as 
by a knife, was the deep slit or gash made by the subglacial torrent. 
There is in the Alps a particular type of gorge, found at Rosenlaui, 
at the Lower (Jrindelwald (Ilacier, at the Kirchet above ]Meiriugen, 
and also in the Caucasus, within the curves of old terminal moraines. 
It is obviously due to the action of the subglacial torrent, which cuts 
deeper and deeper while the ice above protects the sides of the cut- 
ting from the effects of the atmosphere. 

One more note I have to make about glaciers. It has been stated 
that glaciers go on melting in winter. Water, no doubt, flows from 
under some of them, but that is not the same thing. The end of the 
Rosenlaui Glacier is dry in January; you can jump across the clear 
streams that flow from the Lower Grindelwald Glacier. That stream 
is not meltings, but the issue of a spring which rises under the glacier 
and does not freeze. There is another such stream on the way to the 
Great Scheideck, which remains free when frost has fettered all its 
neighbors. 

I should like to draw your attention before we leave glaciers to the 
systematic efforts that are being nuule on the Continent to extend our 
knowledge of their peculiarities. The subject has a literature of its 
own, and two societies — one in P'rance, one in othei' countries — have 
been constituted to promote and systenmtize furtiier investigations, 
especially with regai'd to the secular and annual oscillations of the ice. 
These were initiated by the English Alpine Clul) in 1893, while I was 
its j:)resident. Subse({uenth% though tlie exertions of the late ]\Iar- 
shall Hall, an enthusiast on the subject, an international connnission 
of glaciers was founded, which has been presided over by Doctor 
Kichter, M. Eorcl, and others; and more recently a Erench connnis- 
sion, under M. Rabot, has been created with the object of studying 
in detail the glaciers of the French Alps. A number of excellent 
reports have been published, embodying information from all parts 
of the globe. There has been, antl is, I rgret to say, very great diffi- 
culty in obtaining anj^ methodical reports from the British posses- 
sions oversea. The sul)ject does not connnend itself to the depart- 
mental mind. Let us hope for ini])rovenient. I signalize the need 
for it. Of course it is by no means always an easy matter to get the 



350 ON MOUNTAINS AND MANKIND. 

required measurements of retreat or advance in the glacial snout, 
when the glacier is situated in a remote and only casually visited 
region. Still, with good will more might be d(me than has been. 
The periods of ad\ance and retreat of glaciers appear to correspond 
to a certain extent throughout the globe. The middle of the last 
century was the culmination of the last great advance. The general 
estimate of their duration appears to be half a century. The ice is 
now retreating in the Alps, the Caucasus, and the Himalaya, and 
I believe in North America. AYe live in a retrogressive period. The 
minor oscillation of ad^'ance Avhich a few years ago gave hopes to 
those who, like myself, had as children seen the glaciers of (irindel- 
wald and Chamonix at their greatest, has not been carried on. 

Attempts are being made to connect the oscillations of glaciers Avith 
periods of sun spots. They are, of course, connected with the rain or 
snow fall in past seasons. But the difficulty of working out the con- 
nection is obvious. 

The advance of the ice will not begin until the snows falling in its 
upper basin have had time to descend as ice and become its snout. In 
each glacier this period will vary according to its length, bulk, and 
steepness, and the longer the glacier is the slower its lower extremity 
will be to respond. Deficiency in snowfall wall take effect after the 
same period. It wall be necessary, therefore, to ascertain (as has been 
done in a tragic manner on Mont Blanc by the recovery in the lowest 
portion of the Glacier des Bossons of the bodies of those lost in its 
highest snows) the time each glacier takes to travel, and to apply 
this interval to the date of the year with which the statistics of deposi- 
tion t)f moisture are to be compared. If the glacier shows anything 
about weather and climate, it is past not contemi)()rary Aveather it 
indicates. 

Another point in which the Asiatic ranges, and particularly the 
Himalaya, differ from the Alps is in the frequency of snow ava- 
lanches, earth falls, and nnul slides. These are caused by the greater 
deposition of snow^ and the more sudden and violent alternations of 
heat and cold, which lead to the splitting of the hanging ice and 
snows by the freezing of the water in their pores. T have noticed 
at a bivouac that the moment of greatest cold — about the rising 
of tlie morning star — is often hailed by the reports of a volley of 
avalanches. 

The botanist nuiy find much to do in working out a comparison of 
the flora of my four ranges. I am no botanist; I value flowers ac- 
cording, not to their rarity, but to their abundance, from the artist's, 
not the collector's, i)oint of view. But it is impossible not to take 
interest in such matters as the variations of the gentian in different 
regions, the behaxior of such a plant as the little edelweiss (once the 
token of the Tyrolese lover, now the badge of every Alp trotter). 



ON MOUNTAINS AND MANKIND. 351 

wliidi fiv(nuMits llic Aljis. despises (he Caucasus, reappears in masses 
in tlu> Tliniahiya, and then, leii|)in<r all (he isles of the Tropics, turns 
up again undei' (he snows of New Zealand. T may men(ion that it is 
a suporstidon tha( i( grows only in dangerous places. I have of(en 
found it whei-e cows can crop it; it covers acres in the Ilinialaya, and 
I belioA'e it has been driven by cows oif the Alpine pastures, as it is 
being drix'en by (ouris(s ou( of (he Ali)s altogether. 

The Italian bo(anis(s, Monsieurs I^evier and Soinniier, have given a 
vivid account of what they call the nudvi-otlora of (he Cend-al Cau- 
casus — (hose wild-flower beds, in wliich a man and a horse may 
literally be lost to sight, the product of sudden heat on a rich and sod- 
den soil composed of the vegetable mold of ages. Has any compe- 
tent hand celebrated the mikroflora of the highest ridges, those tiny, 
vivid forget-me-nots and gentians and ranunculuses that flourish on 
rock-island " Jardins " like that of Mont Blanc, among the eternal 
snows, and enamel the highest rocks of the Basodano and the Lom- 
bard Alps? A comprehensive work (m a comparison of mountain 
flora and the distribution of Alpine plants throughout the ranges of 
the Old ^Vorld would be welcome. We want another John Ball. 
Allied to botany is forestry, and the influence of trees on rainfall, and 
consequently on the face of the mountains, a matter of great impor- 
tance, Avhich in this country has hardly had the attention it deserves. 

From these brief suggestions as to some of the physical features of 
mountains I would ask you to turn your attention to the points in 
which mankind come in contact with them, and first of all to History. 

I fancy that the general impression that they have served as efficient 
barriers is hardly in accordance with facts, at any rate from the mili- 
tary point of view. Hannibal, Caesar. Charles the Great, and Napo- 
leon passed the Alps successfully. Hannibal, it is true, had some 
difficulty, but then he was handicapped with elephants. The Holy 
Koman Emperors constantly moved forwards and backwards. Bur- 
gundy, as the late Mr. Freeman was never weary of insisting, lay 
across the Alps. So till our own day did the dominions of the House 
of Savoy. North Italy has been in frequent connectit)ii Avith (xer- 
many ; it is only in my own time that the Alps have become a frontier 
between France and Italy. But questions of this kind might lead us 
too far. Let me suggest that some conqjetent hand should compose 
a history of the Alpine passes and their famous passages, more com- 
plete than the treatises that have appeared in Germany. Mr. Cool- 
idge, to whom we OAve so much, has. in his monumental collection and 
reprint of early Aljune writers just publislied, thrown great light on 
the extensive use of what I may call the by-passes of the Alps in early 
times. Will he not follow up his work' by treating of the great passes? 
I nun' note that the result of the construction of carriage roads over 
some of them was to concentrate trallic; thus tlie Monte Moro and the 



352 ON MOUNTAINS AND MANKIND. 

Gries were practically deserted for commercial purposes when Napo- 
leon opened the Simplon. The roads ov^er the flulier and Maloya 
ruined the Septimer. Another hint to those engaged in tracing 
ancient lines of comnnmication. In i)riniitive times, in the Caucasus 
to-day. the tendency of ])aths is to follow ridges not valleys. The mo- 
tives are on the spot obvious — to avoid torrents, swamps, ravines, 
earth falls, and to get out of the thickets and above the tiuiber line. 
Tlie most striking example is the entrance to the great basin of Sua- 
netia, which runs not up its river, the Ingur, but over a ridge of 
nearly !),()()() feet, closed for eight months in the A^ear to animals. 

From the military point of view, mountains are now receiving 
great attention in Central Europe. The French, the Italians, the 
Swiss, the Austrians have extensive Alpine maneuvers every sum- 
mer, in which men, nudes, and light artillery are conveyed or car- 
ried over rocks and snow. Officers are taught to use maps on the 
spot, the defects in the official surveys being thus l)i-()ught to light. 
It is not likely, perhaps, except on the Indian frontier, that British 
iroo])s will have to fight among high snowy ranges. But I feel sure 
that any intelligent officer who is allowed to attend such maneuvers 
might pick up valuable hints as to the best equipment for use in 
steep places. Probably the Japanese have already sent such an 
envoy and profited by his exjjerience. 

A word as to maps, in which I have taken great interest, may be 
alloAved me. The ordnance maps of Europe have been made by 
soldiers, or under the supervision of soldiers. At home, when I Avas 
young, it was dangerous to hint at any defects in our ordnance 
sheets, for survej^ors in this country are a somewhat sensitive class. 
Times have altered, and they are no longer averse from receiving 
hints, and even hel]) from unofficial quarters. Since the great sur- 
veys of Eur<)j)e were executed, knowledge has increased, so that every 
country has had to revise or to do over again its surveys. In three 
jjoints that concern us there Avas great room for imjjrovement — the 
delineation of the ui)i)ei- region as a whole, the definition of snow 
and glaciers in ])aiticu]ar, and the selection of local names. In the 
two formei' the fed(M:il stall at BeiMi has provided us with an incom- 
])ai'al)l(' model. The niimher of local names k'liown to each peasant 
is small, his pi'onunciation is often obscure, and each valley is apt 
to have its own set of names for the ridges and gaps that form its 
skyline. Set a stranger, sj)eaking anothei* tongue than the local 
patois, to question a herdsman, and the result is likely to be unsatis- 
factoi'v. It has often proved so. The Zardezan is an odd tran- 
scription of the Gias del Cian of patois, the (iite du Champ in 
French. The Grand Paradis is the last term an Aostan peasant 
would ha\(' used for the (ii'anta Paivi, the great screen of rock and 
ice of the highest mountain in Italv. The Pointe de Rosablanchc 



ON MOll.N'I'AIKS AND MANKIND. 358 

was the lioesa Bianca, or Aviiite glacier. Monte Kosa herself though 
tlie poet sees a reference to the rose of dawn, and the German pro- 
lessor detects '' the Keltic ros, a promontory," is a simple translation 
of the Gletscher jMons of Simler, or rather Binder's hybrid term is 
a translation of Monte della Eoesa. Roesa, or Ruize, is the Val 
dWostan word for glacier, and may be found in De Saussure's 
Voyages. 

I would urge mountain explorers to attempt in more distant lands 
what the late Messrs. Adams-Reilly and Nichols, Mr. Tuckett, and 
]jieutenant Payer (of Arctic fame) did forty years ago with so nmch 
success in the Alps, what the members of the Swiss Alpine Club have 
done lately, take a district, and, working from the trigonometrically 
fixed points of a survey, where one exists, fill it in by plane tabling 
with the helj) of the instruments for photographic and telephoto- 
graphic surveying, in the use of which Mr. Reeves, the map curator 
to the Royal (Jeographical Society, is happy to give instruction. An 
excellent piece of work of this kind has been done by Mr. Stein in 
Central Asia. 

There are, I know, some old-fashioned persons in this country who 
dispute the use of photography in mountain work. It can only be 
because they have never given it a full and fair trial with proper 
instruments. 

Lastly, I come to a matter on which we may hope before long to 
have the advantage of medical opinion, based for the first time on a 
large number of cases. I refer to the effects of high altitudes on the 
human frame and the extent of the normal diminution in force as men 
ascend. The advance to Lhasa ought to do much to throw light on 
this interesting subject. I trust the Indian Government has taken 
care that the subject shall be carefully investigated by experts. The 
experience of most mountaineers {including my own) in the last few 
years has tended to modify our previous belief that bodily weakness 
increases more or less regularly with increasing altitude. Mr. "V^Tiite, 
the British resident in Sikhim, and my party both found on the bor- 
ders of Tibet that the feelings of fatigue and discomfort that mani- 
fested themselves at about 14,000 to 1G,000 feet tended to diminish as 
we climbed to 20,000 or 21,000 feet. I shall always regret that when 
I was traveling in 1899 on the shoulders of Kangchenjunga the excep- 
tional snowfall altogether prevented me from testing the point at 
which any of our ascents were stopped by the discomforts due to the 
atmosphere. Owing to the nature of the footing, soft snow lying on 
hard, it was more difficidt to walk uphill than on a shingly beach; 
and it was impossible for us to discriminate betAveen the causes of 
exhaustion. 

Here I must bring this, I fear, desultory address to an end. I 

SM 1904 23 



354 ON MOUNTAINS AND MANKIND. 

might easily have made it more purely geographical, if it is geog- 
raphy to furnish a mass of statistics that are better and more intelli- 
gibly given by a map. I might have dwelt on my own explorations 
in greater detail, or ha\e summarized those of my friends of the Al- 
pine Club. But I have done all this elsewhere in books or review^s. 
and I am unwilling to inflict it for a second time on any of my hearers 
Avho may have done me the honor to read what I have written. Look- 
ing back, I find I have been able to communicate very little of value, 
yet I trust I may have suggested to some of my audience what oppor- 
tunities mountains offer for scientific observations to mountaineers 
better qualified in science than the present speaker, and how far we 
scouts or pioneers are from having exhausted even our Alpine play- 
ground as a field for intelligent and svstematic research. 

And even if the value to others of his travels may be doubtful, the 
Alpine explorer is sure of his reward. "\Miat has been said of books 
is true also of mountains — they are the best of friends. Poets and 
geologists may proclaim — 

The hills are shadows, and they flow 

From foi*m to form, and nothing stands ! 

But for us creatures of a day the great mountains stand fast. Jung- 
frau and Mont Blanc do not change. Through all the vicissitudes of 
life Ave find them sure and sympathetic companions. Let me conclude 
with two lines which I copied from a tomb in Santa Croce at 
Florence : 

Hue properate, virl. salebrosum scandite montem, 
Pulchra laboris erunt prsemia, palma, quies. 



MOROCCO.^ 



By Theobald Fischer. 



To the man of general culture the word " Morocco ■' calls up a 
vague notion of a country in the northwest corner of Africa, and even 
among the better informed a clear idea does not prevail that under the 
name '' ^lorocco " is comprehended a group of countries and districts 
(]uite loosely tied together only by religious bonds, and that only a 
few of these constitute a sort of political union, the boundaries of 
which are ever changing, antl which owes its existence to the domi- 
Tiant natural feature of the country, the Atlas range. The govern- 
ment and the people, perhaps for different reasons, have been alike 
at all times in maintaining the most distant attitude toward Euro- 
I^eans. 

It has been only within the last twenty A^ears that we have suc- 
ceeded in throwing light upon even the main features of this extreme 
portion of the I)ark Continent. Political aims have played a large 
part in bringing about this result, and it is therefore not surprising 
that French investigators, who are almost without exception officers 
in active service or pensioned, have accomplished most. The work 
of the Vicomte de Foucauld and, it seems, that of the Marquis de 
Segonzac — for his book has not yet appeared — belong to the highest 
achievements in the field of research on African soil. Much that is 
valuable, notably chartographic material, collected by French officers, 
especially of the mission militaire, on their travels through the coun- 
try is probably h'ing un.used in the maps of the French ministry of 
war. Other names worthy of mention are those of the Englishmen, 
Hooker, Maw, Ball, Harris, and of the Germans, Von Fritsch and 
Rein. I nwself have devoted special attention to Morocco for many 
years, and in 1888, 1899, and 1901, I traveled through the country for 
purposes of investigation. 

No presentation at all satisfactory from a scientific standpoint is 
in existence. The best map is that of R. de Flotte Roquevaire, on a 

a Translated, by permission, from Geographische Zeitschrift, Leipzig, T'eb- 
ruary 12, 1903. Translation revised by author. 

355 



356 MOROCCO. 

scale of 1 : l.OOO.OOO. for whu^li he had a reliable hasis to work upon 
in the map of P. Schnell, on a scale of 1 : 1,750,000, and also in the 
book by Schnell, Avhich gives evidence of remarkable industry and 
insight. 

On the southeast the boundaries of Morocco are quite indefinite; 
therefore its exact size can not be determined. On a rough estimate 
I ascribe to this group of countries a surface measure of 000,000 km-. 
Of course I exclude Tuat and include Tafilalet, the whole district of 
the Draa, the province of Tekna, and all the country southward to 
ihe Sakiet-el-Hamra. For, as a matter of fact, the sultan at this 
day exerts a certain influence as far south as Cape Juby, since he 
bought the English trading colony there for a great deal of money, 
garrisoned it Avith about sixty men, and by means of yearly gifts pre- 
vailed on the real sovereign of the land, the Sheik El Maleynin, to 
place himself, to all external appearances, under the overlordship of 
the sultan. 

So far as population is concerned, I will content myself Avitli the 
statement that it amounts to about 8,000,000. 

Thus Morocco is important, if only from its size and population; 
and its significance is increased b}' its situation and by its posi- 
tion relative to other countries, as well as by its extraordinary 
internal resources. Morocco is by far the most important of the 
three Atlas countries. Its situation enables it to maintain relations 
with the Mediterranean as well as with tlie ocean, and to share in 
the domination of the Strait of Gibraltar, the most important strait 
to the entire trading world. Its towns on the ocean, whose harbors 
could he nuide excellent without great cost, might be turned into sta- 
tions for the world's commerce to West Africa, as well as to South 
and Central America, and even for the Mediterranean traffic. The 
relation of Larash to the Strait of (Til)raltar is just as favorable as 
that of Cadiz. At the other extreme of Morocco, oases and springs 
make possible a conumuiication with Nigeria through the great desert 
so active that until the most recent times, when the French tied up 
the routes, products of the Sudan were carried in great (juantities to 
and through Morocco. Negroes formed a large percentage of its pop- 
ulation, and Timbiictoo for a century acknowledged the authority of 
the Sultan. As late as 1887 the inhabitants of Timbuctoo de(;lared 
to Naval Ijieutenant Caron that they were a dependency of Morocco, 
though they said so, it is true, to Avard off the French. The advan- 
tages of Morocco's climate, soil, and mineral products can not easily 
be overestimated. The provinces along the ocean coast, on account of 
their black soil, rank among the richest agricultural districts on the 
earth. 

It is not yet possible to gi^'e a scientific exposition of the evolu- 
tion of the main mountain ranges that divide the country latitudi- 



MOROCCO. 357 

nally and loniritiuliniilly, of tho coiulitions which hero created a 
group oi' lands hoiiiid t<)t>v(her by a certain kind of union, loose as 
it is. A( the sanu> time, (here is no doubt that here we have a piece 
of the u-n-at Eurasian mountain system. One p-oup of its ranges — 
the Atlas Mountains of Morocco — extending to the southwest, ends 
abruptly at Cape (iir; the other — the Rif Mountains — continuing the 
Algerian Tell Atlas and bending to the north, also ends abruptly 
at the Mediterranean. The Kif Mountains are of a very recent 
origin, and, like the 'IvW Atlas of Algeria, essentially of the 
Eocene and Miocene periods. In fact, to judge from the xVndalusian 
system, the folds continued to be thrown up as late as the Pliocene 
period, and presumably their composition is mainly Jurassic and 
Cretaceous, but toward the sea of older strata. The several ])arallel 
chains of the Rif Mountains, whose peaks are mon^ than 2,000 m. 
high, ])resent their precipitous sides to the Mediterranean, aud with 
their narrow valley passes they thus form a secluded mountain region, 
ditlicult of access, which at all times enabled its Berber inhabitants 
to keep their necks clear of a foreign yoke. Marquis de Segonzac 
was the very first explorer who was able to cross it, and his work will 
soon give a better idea of it than is now possible. 

The Rif coast, with its small coves, usually semicircular in shape, 
its small, rocky islands, and its secret nooks and crannies, by virtue 
of its proximity to the greatest strait in the w-orkTs commerce has, 
up to the present, been a coast for fostering the exploits of pirates, in 
defiance of the Spanish presidios. These strongholds, a remnant of 
better times to which the Spaniards still cling, lie m part on island 
rocks close to the coast (Penon de Velezf de la Gomera, Pen on de 
Alhucenias, Las Zafarinas) , or on rocky promontories forming natural 
strongholds (Ceuta and Melilla). The natives keep the Spanish 
garrisons behind their walls and in their blockhouses in a constant 
state of siege, and the garrisons must obtain not only their food sup- 
plies from Spain, but even their drinking water. 

Inland, toward the Atlas, the boundary of the Rif region is that of 
a valley, hydrographically well marked. Beginning wnth Thasa, of 
late so frequently mentioned, and strategetically a very important 
place, it extends to the west along the Tnnaun, an eastern tributary of 
the Sebu, the chief river of northern Morocco, and to the east along 
the Messun toAvard the Muluja, then along the winding Muluja itself, 
and finally along the Wed-el-Kseb, a western tributary to the Muluja, 
nearly to the border city of Udjda. This valley, forming a geologic 
demarcation and, as it were, a low pass, at a probable height of less 
than 1,000 m., constitutes the watershed between the Mediterranean 
and the Atlantic. From of old it has been a trading route of the 
utmost importance. It coiuiects the Atlantic slopes of the Atlas 
lands, the Maghreb-el- Aksa, the extreme west of the natives, with the 



358 MOROCCO. 

^lediterranoan reo;ions; and it gives Morocco a firm hold upon the 
Miiluja district, Avhich constitutes a well-defined, distinctive territory 
for Morocco, and is a portion of the girdle of plain land beginning 
in Algeria at Oran. It has long been the endeavor of the French to 
connect the northern capital of Morocco, Fez, with Tlemsen, and 
thereby Morocco itself with Algeria, as Avith an iron clamp, by means 
of a railroad, which would traverse the route along the basin that I 
have described. To compare a large with a small thing, this basin is 
like the Arlberg pass, by which the Suabian Vorarlberg is connected 
with the Tyrol and Austria. West of Fez it broadens out toward the 
basin of the lower Sebu. Larash, at the northern extremity, or 
Rabat-Sla, at the southern extremity, of this basin, or Mehed^'ia, at 
the mouth of the Sebu itself, would thus be the Atlantic terminal of 
the great inland trading route, which is clearly defined by nature 
and which ends at the Mediterranean at Tunis. The basin of the 
Sebu in its general features resembles strongly that of the lower 
Guadelquiver. It is along the above-mentioned valley, now near 
Thasa, now near Fez, that the revolts are at present occurring, which 
seem to be carried on by the Berber tribes, Hiaina and Rhiata, living 
in the mountains on both sides of the depression. 

Toward the west, and north of the basin of the Sebu, lies the 
district of Andjera, whose chief city is Tangiers, which by virtue of 
its position on tlie Strait of Gibraltar is the cKit and entrance gate 
to Morocco from Europe. Andjera, the most northerly district, is 
filled by the Rif Mountains, which here turn their gently sloping 
side toward the ocean. This side of the mountains is composed of 
Tertiary strata, which form small plateaus separated from each other 
l)y swiftly flowing streams. 

As yet we have little light upon the geologic history of the 
Moroccan Atlas Mountains and their relations to the Algerian 
Sahara Atlas. (>f the Sahara Atlas it is known that its trend is 
southwest and northeast, that it was elevated nuiinly in the Eocene 
and Miocene periods, that it consists for the most pai-t of thi-ee great 
groups of folds, the denuircation between the groups being orograph- 
ically well defined. Some of its folds, which are less pronounced, take 
a more southerly direction, so that their mountainous character is, as 
a rule, not very distinct, especially since the enormous nuisses of 
detritus could not be can-ied oil by running water after the dry 
period had been ushered in. The formation of the Sahara Atlas is 
chiefly limestone and sandstone, with here and there marl of the 
Jurassic and Cretaceous series; l)ut Devonian and Carboniferous 
rocks appear among these, increasing toward the southwest, in the 
direction of the Moroccan Atlas, in the district of the Wed Gir and 
Susfana. The Moroccan Atlas range shoAvs essentially^ different 
features from the Sahara Atlas, though the trend is in the same 



MOROCCO. 359 

direction. Older eruptive rooks: that is, porphyrite, diorite, and 
granite, which seem to be entirely lacking in the Sahara Atlas of 
Algeria, ar(> liere ih(> most prominent, as is proved not only by the 
mountains tluMuselvcs but also by the composition of the accumula- 
tions of detritus at the mouths of the valleys. This recalls the 
ancient denuded mountain ranges of the Iberian table-land. The 
crumpliugs in tlie Moroccan Atlas seem to have begun and ended 
sooner than in the other Atlas ranges; that is, at the end of the 
Cretaceous period. 

According to J. Thomson, the same Cretaceous strata that lie flat 
and undisturbed in the A' orland are abruptly uplifted and form an 
essential feature of the Moroccan Atlas. Then these mountains would 
be older tiian the liif Mountains, the Tell Atlas, and Sahara Atlas 
of Algeria. Paleozoic rocks are probably another large element in 
their structure. The process of upheaval was by far more intense, 
so that e\'en to-day much higher ridges (3,000 to 4,000 m.) and peaks 
(4,000 to 5,000 m.) appear here than in the more recently formed 
ranges. The breadth of the range (about 200 km.), comprising a 
number of separate folds wdiich constitute three parallel belts, the 
Great Atlas, the Anti-Atlas, and the Middle Atlas, is also much 
greater. The height of the ridges is every wdiere considerable. Deep 
indentations do not occur in them. South of Marrakesh (the city of 
Morocco), lie three passes, the first 3,000 to 4,000 m. high, the second 
lying to the northeast of the first, 2,500 m.,the third, to the southwest 
in the direction of the ocean, 1,000 to 2,000 m. The range thus forms 
a high wall, difficult to cross, about 1,000 km. long, separating the 
desert from the Vorland. Thus the Moroccan Atlas forms a moun- 
tainous regi(m nearly as great in extent as the Alpine country be- 
tween Nice and Vienna. Though in general, and not only on the 
side toAvard the Sahara, the whole range shows signs of comparative 
drought, which accords with its latitude and its situation in a dry 
/one. It receives so much snow during the winter that its peaks, cov- 
ered with snow until late in the summer, which glisten down upon 
the dry, sun-scorched plain, and the streams in spring and early sum- 
mer, fed by the melting snows, provide a quantity of water for irri- 
gation. 

7'he i)re vailing drought, increased by an almost complete destruc- 
tion of the woods, the cold, and the covering of snow in winter, the 
rarity of wude valley plains, which, moreover, where they exist, are 
capable .of culture only wnth the aid of artificial irrigation in sum- 
mer—all these factors make the Moroccan Atlas less suited to habi- 
tation than one would expect. The population is limited to the chief 
valleys and thus only up to a slight elevation. Proper conditions are 
also lacking for cattle raising and mountain grazing. The region 
offers no allurements to the conqueror. Consequently, the Berlwr 



360 MOROCCO. 

Mountain folk, whose subjection was difficult, have always maintained 
their inde[)endence. It was scarcely possible for the masters of the 
Vorland countries to secure routes of communication for themselves 
with the other side of the mountains. The}'^ preferred to lock the 
passes b}^ placing castles at their openings. It is a custom obtaining 
among the Berbers from the southern part of Tunis, south of Syrtis 
Minor, as far as the ocean, to stow their provisions and valuable 
possessions in castles, in Morocco called Tirremt, built upon safe 
lieights by a village community or by a clan. This custom in some 
districts prevails to a striking extent. Moreover, the Berbers place 
their villages, as a rule, on precipitous heights. As a result the range, 
w^ith its numerous strongholds and ruins of strongholds here and 
there, presents a remarkable aspect. 

As J. Thomson has pointed out, the Great Atlas, strictly speaking, 
does not extend to the ocean, but only as far as the defile Asif Ig, 
some 50 kilometers from the coast. AA'est of this point is table-land, 
including the proA'inces Mtuga and Haha. To the south, between 
the Great Atlas and the Anti-Atlas, lies a territory, broadening out 
to the ocean, called by the name of the Sus, the long Audinal river of 
the Atlas, by which it is watered. It is one of the most distinctive, by 
nature one of the most well-defined, districts in Morocco, and at the 
same time one of the richest in natural resources. Kich in mineral 
products, well watered, and fertile of soil, the land of Sus, which 
even at present has the largest share in the trade of Mogador, miglit, 
under a good administration, become a rich, cultivated district. The 
oasis city of Tarudant might become a focus of trade with the South, 
and Agadir, which has the best harbor on the ocean — closed now to 
foreign trade — might become a prosperous port. 

The triangle made by the divergence of the Rif Mountains and the 
Moroccan Atlas forms the largest and most im-portant province of 
Morocco. At all times this country, lying between the Atlas and the 
ocean, has been the heart of the group of lands constituting Morocco, 
the core of the body politic. I obtained an insight into its geologic 
history on my two last trips. I'he develo})ment of the present sur- 
face features is somewhat as follows: Pr()bal)ly toward the end of 
the Paleozoic period a precipitous mountain range was thrown up, 
formed mainly of Paleozoic schist, graywacke, (juartzite, and argil- 
laceous sandstone, interspersed with granite, porphyrite, and similar 
old eruptive rocks. Where the trend of the folds is still to be dis- 
tinguished, it is a2:)proxiuuitely parallel with that of the Moroccan 
Atlas. The almost perpendicular strata of schist form here and 
there nearly horizontal plains, as though shaved off by a razor, but 
above these the more solid strata of graywacke, ((uartzite, and occa- 
sionally limestone, stand up in projecting ridges. 

The Djebilet, a bare, rocky mountain range 100 km. long, which 



MOROCCO. 361 

Jiniits the iiortlioni hoi'izoii of .Miu-rakesli ; tlie I)j. Aclular. (lie I)J. 
Karra, and similar small mountain ran<i:os, present phenomena recall- 
ing those of the Tannus in (lermany or (he Siei-ra <le Alcudiad, and 
other mountains of the Spanish table-land. The similarity between 
these primitive mountains of Spain and those of Morocco is in general 
^•ory great, especially in so far as the older formations were overlaid 
by more recent deposits, consisting of strata entirely horizontal and 
still undisturbed, but merely elevated. The older formations show 
through the ret-ent deposits onl}^ where rocks capable of more resist- 
ance jutted up, or where the recent formations yielded either to the 
(MUM'getic erosion and demulation produced by running water in the 
jduvial period, or to aerial denudation, Avhich is almost the only force 
active since the pluvial period. It is to this force — aerial denuda- 
tion — that the formation of table mountains is to be attributed. 
These occur fre(|uently in the central belt of plain land an.d oft^'u stand 
together in groups. The thickness of the overlying deposits is not 
very great. So far as I could tell, it i)i'obably nowhere exceeds 100 
meters. Concerning the chronology of its formation, sufficient })aleon- 
tologic evidences are still lacking. On my last trip I brought fossils 
from Schedma — that is, from the extreme southwest — where disturb- 
ances connected with the upheaval of the Atlas are still important 
factors. E. Fichcur, who probably possesses the greatest knoAvledge 
of the geologic construction of Algeria, ascribed these fossils to the 
Cretaceous period. Going ui)on this assumption, I am of the opinion 
that the winding valley of the Tensift, which I followed in 1890 almost 
from its mouth to the sub-Atlantic high plateau at Marrakesh, was 
cut into this rock. According to A.Brives, state geologist in Algeria, 
and the first geologist to explore a portion of the Atlas Vorland, in 
the winter of 1901-2, the overlying mountains between the Tensift 
and the Um-er-Kbia, and north of this region, are to be ascribed for 
the most part to the Miocene period. The investigations of this geol- 
ogist in Morocco are knowm only through a preliminary publication. 
Accordingly, the Atlas Vorland for the most part has the character 
of stratified table-land. The dominating feature is that of plains — in 
fact, high plateaus. As far as our present knowledge goes, it may 
be assumed that two periods of uplift occurred, the owo in Eocene 
and the other in Quaternary time. Consecpiently there are two 
levels — the coast plains and the high inland plateau — which comprise 
the gi-eatest portion of the Vorland. The coast plain, whose geologic 
conditions I was able to distinguish clearly in my last trip (1901), 
begins at Cape Hadid, 20 kilometers north of Mogador, in a narrow 
point. At the foot of I)j. Achdar, which is the dominating landmark 
of central Morocco — that is, at Sidi Kehal— where the nnich-traveled 
caravan route from INIazagan to Marrakesh, in the valley of ]Mtal, 
climbs up to the higher level, the coast plain reaches its greatest 



362 MOROCCO, 

breadth of 80 kilometers. Northward, at the Um-er-Ebia, it narrows 
down to 70 kilometers; in Shawia, to (50 kilometers. Finally it dis- 
appears almost completely at Rabat, but in the valley of the lower 
Sebu it broadens out again to 70 kilometers, and here extends as far 
inland as the gorge of Sidi Kassem, in which the Rdem plunges down 
from the upper level. North of the Sebu valley the coast plain nar- 
rows down rapidly, but probably continues without break as far as 
the strait at Tangiers. At Arzila I found it still well defined, though 
with a breadth of only 10 kilometers, extending along the base of the 
Rif Mountains. 

Thus the lower plain stretches along the ocean for a distance of 
650 kilometers, but for the most part it rises straight up from the 
ocean, in the south to a height of 100 meters. Therefore the ocean 
coast of Morocco is to be regarded chiefly as one without prominent 
features, the rocky character of which is due to the close proximity of 
the older formations. The earthquakes that have repeatedly shaken 
the coast cities give ground for the supposition that there was a fault 
here. The coast line is therefore almost entirely unbroken, it being 
an exception when shelter for vessels is afl'orded by a shallow bay, 
such as at Mazagan, or by a small island produced by erosion, like 
Mogador, or where the breakers and the tides have cut out a bay from 
the valley of a small river or from a system of softer strata, as at 
Saffi and Casa Blanca. Real harbors are found onh^ at the mouths 
of rivers, as at Azemur, situated at the mouth of the Um-er-Rbia; 
Rabat, at the mouth of the Bu Regreg; Mehediya, at the mouth of 
the Sebu, and Larash, at the mouth of the^Lukkos. Unfortunately 
all these river mouths are practically closed by sand bars, due to the 
c(mstant shifting of sands during nearly the entire year along the 
Avhole coast. As a rule only small vessels can cross the bars, and 
even these but rarely, Avhen the sand is temporarily swept away by 
high tides. At these ports, as at all JSIoroecan ports, steamers must 
lie at anchor in the open roadstead and keep up their supply of steam, 
so as to be ready at a moment's notice to reach dee}) water. Besides, 
Azennir and Mehediya, situated at the mouths of the greatest rivers, 
both navigable for some distance, are closed to foreign trade, and are 
therefore of no significance whatsoevei". Tn places, also, where more 
recent deposits have created a strip of plain and bays — that is, flat 
coast lands — as in front of the valley of the Sebu and in Dukkahi. 
south of Mazagan, geograjjhical conditions more favorable to trade 
have not arisen. Nevertheless it Avould seem as though the bay of 
Walidiya, north of Cape Kantin, a pi-ominent landmark, might be 
turned into an excellent harbor. 

An average height of 150 meters might be ascribed to tlie steep 
cliff Avith Avhich the coast plain breaks off at the sea. Going inward 
from this edge the plain imi)erce]:)tibly I'ises to a height of '250 meters 



MOROCCO. 363 

at the base of the higher phiin, which in turn proseiita an abrupt 
elevation of 100 meters. Possibly the edge of the higher plain was 
once the shore of the ocean. The coast plain bears nearly every- 
where the marks of a true plateau, and when one gets a bird's-eye 
view it appears to be level as a table. Here and there occur hills and 
undulations in the ground. Their infrequency is to be attributed to 
denudation and to the chalk crust so characteristic of expanses of 
land in Morocco and so fraught with danger, to be explained as 
essentially a climatic phenomenon. The primitive mountain crops 
out only in Shawia, Avhere it forms isolated cliffs. 

Aj^art from the large rivers rising in the interior, running water 
is utterly lacking in the coast plain. Most of the smaller streams 
and brooks that descend from the upper level soon dry out, but their 
valleys form an easy ascent to the higher table-land. The only 
strips of land intersected by running water arc the precipitous coast 
land to a distance of 10 to SO kilometers from the ocean and a narrow 
girdle on each side of the Um-er-Rbia. 

As a consequence, springs are very rare in the lower plain, and 
they probably occur only in Shawai, where they are occasioned hy 
the impervious folds of the primitive mountains now degraded, and in 
the belt along the Um-er-Rbia. For the most part in the countries 
immediately along the ocean the inhabitants are dependent upon 
artificial means of obtaining water, except where the great rivei-s 
from the Atlas provide good though usually muddy drinking water. 
The first expedient adopted by the natives was the construction of 
artificial ponds for collecting rain water, suggested by the natural 
pools formed on the chalk crust or in shallow basins. Such are 
to be found in great number throughout the district, notably in 
Dukkala, where there are many hundred, circular in shape, siu'- 
rounded with low walls, and not seldom with a mound in the center. 
Some persons maintain that they are of volcanic origin, but they are 
undoubtedly products of human labor. I saw^ some that had just 
been made. Then, the people constructed cisterns on the edge of the 
chalk crust, which prevented the water from penetrating into the 
ground. Where these means failed to secure w-ater for the eight or 
nine months of the dry season, wells are l)ored, but it is a very difficult 
task, as they must be dug to a great depth — I suppose as far as the 
impervious primitive mountain folds. iSIoreover, for the most part, 
stone for the construction of walls is lacking. I measured wells (iO 
meters deep. The water in them is warm and very often so saline 
that at first even animals did not want to drink it, and tea pre- 
pared wuth it is unpalatable. And yet sometimes a well of this 
kind is the only source for obtaining water in an entire district. In 
such cases they are ahvays placed within the kasba (citadel) of the 
kadi, as a means of keeping the population in subjection. A draft 



364 MOROCCO. 

animal — a camel, horse, or mule — is emploj^ed all day long in pump- 
ing water to the surface through a large conduit. Not infre(|uently 
women are to be seen harnessed at the w^ork. Here wind motors 
would be entirely suitable and the}' would never lack motive power. 

The fact that these districts along the coast at present maintain a 
fixed population and are habitable to a high degree is the result of 
cultivation, of long, toilsome labor on the part of man. It is also 
the result of the remarkable fertilitj'^ of the soil, which likewise 
accounts for the form of the plain. This lower plain land of the 
Atlas Vorland possesses a covering of black soil, or Tirs, as it is 
there called, which is spread over a large extent of territory. In 
1899 I was in a position merely to indicate its existence, but in 1901 
1 could carry my investigations farther and verify nw previous 
observations. I submitted specimens of the soil, obtained on both 
trips, to most competent sjiecialists for chemical and mineralogical 
analysis ; and those analyses not only declared the soil to be unusually 
fertile, but they also confirmed my theory as to its origin, which is that 
it consists essentially of dust deposits from the interior. The black 
soil is for the most part of slight depth and is spread unevenly ; the 
broadest areas covered by it unbrokenly j^robably occur in Abda. 
Nevertheless, Dukkala is generally considered the most fertile of the 
coast i^rovinces. I myself obser\'ed black soil in the upper plain lands 
of Shawia, but near the edge, and in the region of the upper Wed 
Rdem in El Gharb, and through inquiries I established the fact that 
of its presence in Tedla, the most inland valley of the Atlas Vorland, 
the Moroccan Ferghana, as I might call it. 

This belt of black soil is therefore ])rincipally characteristic of 
the coast plain, wdiere the dust carried down from the inland plains 
is retained because of a more abundant rainfall in winter, a more 
luxuriant vegetation, and the flatness of the land, which precludes 
washing away by swift-running streams. Consequently black soil 
is entirely lacking along the Um-er-Rbia and in the strips of land 
along the coast that are cut up by rivers. The remarkable cai:)acity of 
this soil for water, which has been demonstrated by analysis, enables 
it to retain the winter moisture, and this moisture is supplemented 
to a certain degree by the abunchmt fall of dew peculiar to this 
coast region. Good results are thus obtained, both from a winter 
sowing and a spring sowing of maize or other grain. The j)easan(s 
think that rain is even harmful to maize, for it seems to thrive on 
tlie natural moisture of the ground in Avinter and with the dew. 
About the first of April, when the winter rains aie over, a variety 
is sowed that requires only three months for attaining its maturity, 
and may therefore b«> harvested at the end of June. 

The lower plain land of the Atlas Vorland is thus the granary of 
Morocco, and the provinces included in it. Abda. Dukkala, Shawia, 



M()i{()('(io. 365 

and Gliarb, are the richest aiul most densely popuhited of that 
(•ountry. Standing on the higher phiin, the traveler views with as- 
tonishment the level stretches of Abda spread out at his feet as far 
as the eye can reach. He sees waving li«>lds of wheat, barley, garden 
beans, chickpea, maize, canary seed, coriandei-, lentils, pease, and the 
like. Here and there are blue carpets of blooming flax, an innova- 
tion introduced by Europeans within recent years. The whole is 
strewn with white kubbas, glistening at a distance, and numerous 
liKle duars built of tabia ; but not a tree, not a shrub. Forests are 
a product foreign to black soil. It is rare that even miserable 
looking fig trees or date j)alms are planted here and there. 

By far the larger portion of the Atlas Vorland belongs to the upper 
tableland, which gradually rises from a height of 100 m. to a height 
of (UK) to 700 nun. at the base of the Atlas Mountains that dominate 
tlie whole horizon. Here, too, the prevailing geographical feature is 
that of the plain, but not to the same extent as on the lower level. All 
the uplifts of the primitive degraded mountain forming small moun- 
tain ranges, like the Djebilet or the Dj. Achdar, the table mountains, 
tone doAvn the monotony of the form. IMoreover, the streams crossing 
the entire xVtlas Vorland, especially the Tensift and the Um-er-Rbia, 
with their considerable fall and their strong current, frequently form- 
ing rapids, have cut deep, winding, often canyon-like valleys into the 
highland. These valleys are not only themselves impassable, being 
accessible as watering places only at certain points, but they also con- 
stitute serious obstacles in the way of travel. In the midst of magnifi- 
cent savage scenery on a peninsida formed by a bend in the Um-er- 
Rbia, like the Marienburg on the Moselle, stands the mighty castle 
Bu-el-Awan, on the boundary of the two tablelands, the land of habi- 
tations and culture and the land of steppes. The castle has not, at 
the time of my visit, ever been reached by a European, which seems 
almost fabulous, though the natives assured me it is so. 

The whole upper tableland, rather distant as it is from the ocean, 
receives only a slight rainfall, and has no black soil. The pervious 
soil of the younger strata, as well as the fundamental strata of the 
primitive mountains, which lack a coating of decomposed substances, 
occasion great dryness. Consequently the country consists of steppes, 
which, when the winters have been rainy or whei^e the ground is richer 
and moister, are not wholly incapable of being cultivated for barley 
and, here and there, for wheat. According to important geographic 
features, such as the character of the soil, the presence of water 
sources, and the capability of cultivation, this district of steppes may 
be divided into two essentially different zones — the zone of real 
stei3i:»es and the zone of sub- Atlantic irrigated oases. The one, SO to 
iOO km. broad, contains, it is true, some small oases, found chiefly in a 
belt along the Um-er-Rbia and owing their existence to springs; oh 



366 MOROCCO. 

the whole, however, the zone consists of pasture land inhabited by 
nomads and seniinomads. The number of herds of cattle, sheep, and 
camels is fairly considerable, especially because in summer, when the 
vegetation of the stej^pes, like a glorious carpet in late ^^■i]lter and 
spring, is scorched by the sun, the herds find nourishment either in 
the mountains or in the agricultural districts of the coast plain. 

The most inland zone coincides with what I have called, from the 
character of the soil, the sub-x\tlantic high plateau. This stretches 
along the base of the mountains for a distance of 330 km. and main- 
tains a breadth of 30 to 40 km. All streams emerging from the moun- 
tains cross it. Mainly influenced, perhaps, by the ancient underlying 
strata, especially the Djebilet, these streams unite to form the two great 
drainage channels, the Tensift and the Um-er-Rbia. The w^atershed 
of the rivers is in the sub- Atlantic plateau itself, but as it is formed 
entirely of detritus, it is hardly distinguishable and probably under- 
went various essential dislodgments in the pluvial period. The detri- 
tus of the Atlas streams, probably accumulated for the most ]:)art 
in the pluvial period, though the process still continues, forms the 
predominant constituent of the soil in the sub-Atlantic zone. In this 
regard the zone recalls the valley plain lands of the Po, notably in 
Piedmont. All the Atlas streams afford enormous water supplies for 
purposes of irrigation, and are used for it even at the present time, 
although only a small fraction is accomjilished of what might be done. 
The water supply is increased by underground sources, which are col- 
lected and brought to the surface by the so-called Chattaras, under- 
ground drainage canals, similar to the Kanat and the Kariz of Iran, 
the Sahrig of Yemen, and the Feggagir of some oases in the Sahara. 
Thus, the yellow steppe is dotted with dark oases along the streams and 
especiall}^ on the lower edge of the high plateau. In the largest oasis 
is the cajDital Marrakesh, a true oasis city, lying in a grove of date 
palms, the fruit of which ripens even at this elevation of 500 m. above 
sea level. It is the fruit trees that lend character to the oases and 
make this zone the least treeless of a treeless country. Beside,s the 
date palm there is the olive tree, the fig tree, the pomegranate, the 
orange, the lemon, the apricot, the peach, and the almond. Immedi- 
ately under the fruit trees and in the vicinity of the groves, where the 
soil can be watered only in winter, grain, vegetables, and the like are 
cultivated. The zone to a large extent could be turned into an agi-i- 
cultural country, and w^ater power for electric motors is abundant. 
Fortunately, the three zones of the Atlas A^orland might complement 
each other: The one produces breadstutfs in plenty, the other cattle, 
and the third fruit. 

The moinitain folk are dependent for their sustenance upon the 
Vorland, just as in Algeria the inhabitants of the desert are depend- 
ent upon the lands lying between the Tell-Atlas and the Mediterra- 



MOROCCO. 307 

noan. As a result, since permanent residence is otrered l^v the nature 
of the country, small border cities, like Denniat, Sidi Rehal, Amsmis, 
and others have grown up at the mouths of the Atlas valleys. 

The capital. IMarrakesh, which gives its name to the country, is the 
.•hief city of the Tensift region. Although not situated directly on 
the Ti'Msil't. it has another advantage of being an oasis city in the 
oi)en, high plateau. It developed in the first place as a result of its 
abundant water supply; in the second, through its position so favora- 
ble to trade. As in Milan, similarly situated at the base of the Alps, 
the Alpine routes converge like the spokes of a wheel, so the routes 
through the Atlas mountains and those to the Sus, and the region of 
the Wed Draa merge together at the city of Moro(;co, only to diverge 
airain toward the coast towns Mogador, Saffi, jVIazagan, Casa Bhinca, 
and Rabat. Marrakesh, therefore, is the natural capital of all southern 
Morocco. 

P>z l)lays the same role for northern JNlorocco and is the chief city 
of the Sebu region. Though only about 300 m. above sea level, it also 
lies on the npper plain. The highlands here, nearer to the mountain 
and lying between the Atlas and the Rif mountains, are partially 
cut up by hilly territory. Fez, as well as Marrakesh, owes its devel- 
()l)ment to abundance of water, through which the city is adorned 
with a border of luxuriant gardens, and to the fact of its being a cen- 
ter of trade routes, whose direction is determined by natural condi- 
tions. It is the medium of trade between the mountains and the oases 
beyond, especially Tafilalet on the one side, the estuary of the Sebu, 
and the sea on the other. Indeed, thanks to the above-mentioned 
basin lying between the Atlas and the Rif mountains, it is the focus of 
trade of the entire Maghreb-el- Aksa with the other Atlas countries. 
It is proposed to build a railroad, over 100 kilometers long, to connect 
Fez with some point on the Mediterranean coast. From a strategic 
[)oint of view it is the key at least to northern Morocco. 

The entire Vorland falls into two divisions, according to the 
character of the soil, according to natural geograj^hical routes, and, 
as a consequence of the latter, according to political conditions. The 
inhabitants of the two divisions regard them as entirely different 
realms, united only, as it were, in the person of the Snltan. The 
northern division, North Morocco, El Gharb, is predominatingly 
mountain and hill country, is well Avatered, and is almost everywhere 
capable of cultivation. South Morocco, El Haus, is for the most part 
high plateau, and lacks water, so that it can not be cultivated. By 
some Sus, the South, is regarded as a third division of equal rank 
with the other two. The border country between the sultanates of 
Fez and Marrakesh is one of the regions of which least is known, 
becan?:.^ the Berber tribes inhabiting it, who speak chiefly Tamazirt 
even at this day, and include the Zemmur, Zair, Zaian, Beni Mgild. 



368 MOROCCO. 

and Belli Mtir, keep all explorers aloof, without exception, and have 
prevented the armies of the Sultan and all conquerors from pene- 
trating into their land or, at least, effecting a lodgment there. Even 
Roman domination extended only up to this border land. Though 
formed by the northern and northwestern projections of the Middle 
Atlas, which here thrusts itself forward toward the ocean like a 
wedge, this region, the basin of the Bu Ilegreg and the Wed Beht, a 
tributaiy of the Sebu, docs not consist of high mountains. So far 
as I could ascertain, the country rises in natural terrat;es, with iso- 
lated peaks not much over 1,000 iii. high, whose core is formed by 
the ancient underlying strata, which in great stretches has been laid 
bare by denudation of the overlying strata. It is the steep terraces, 
the rugged, rocky land, torn by ravines, thick with underbrush, and 
in the higher mountains i)artially covered by mighty cedars of the 
primitive forest, that have made it so difficult to penetrate into this 
region, while the inhabitants, whom the nature of the country made 
half nomad, are in a position, in case of need, to place themselves 
in security by withdrawing with their herds into the higher moun- 
tains, to which they betake themseh^es at any rate in the summer 
season. 

On account of this impassable region all communication between 
North and South Morocco is forced into the one route along the ocean 
coast, and even the Sultan at the head of his army when he changes 
his seat from the southern capital, Marrakesh, to the northern capital, 
Fez, must take the same way. Rabat owes its strategic and commer- 
cial importance in greatest measure to this fact. Rabat is tlie con- 
necting link between north and south, a great fortress in the sense 
of the term given it by the inhabitants of Morocco. Indeed, it is 
almost a bit of walled-in countrj'', which, however, is kept nearly 
all the time in a latent state of siege by the tribes Zemniur and Zair. 
Thus an enemy common to North and South Morocco which besets 
Rabat separates the tAvo districts from each other. As a result of 
reflection and counsel upon this point, the father of the present Sul- 
tan had a fort built through (he agency of a former officer of the 
Prussian engineer corps, Avhich, with its might}^ Krupj) guns, domi- 
nates the roadstead of Rabat. 

Five German meteorological stations have been placed in Morocco; 
the two older, in Mogador and Saffi, were constructed b}' the German 
naval observatory, and I erected the two more recent stations, at Casa 
Blanca and Marrakesh. The fifth is at Maragon. The best of the 
meteorological stations is a sixth one at Llo3'^d's signal station on 
Cape Spartel. Climatic conditions, which have been investigated 
at these stations, may be said to be favorable, not only in the 
Atlas Vorland, but .in the whole country. Malaria, the pest of the 
other Atlas countries, manifests itself here only slightly. Desert 



MOROCCO. 369 

eomilry appears only bej'oud the Atlas range, and here cidtivation 
is limited to some few oases and gronps of oases, which, like the na- 
tive land of the ]iresent dynasty. Tafilalet, are watered by the Atlas 
streams. On the coast land of this district, as far south as Cape 
Jnby, the rainfall in winter is so al)inulant that there is a wide area of 
good pasture land, and barley can be planted in winters of copious 
rainfall even outside the river-watered oases. The average rainfall 
at Cape .Fuby may amount to 200 mm. As far south as Mogador, and 
probably some distance south of that city, the rainfall has attained 
-100 mm., Avhich, to judge from observations in Tunis, is sufficient for 
agriculture; and to judge from my own observations, an additional 
advantage for agriculture is provided by the heavy dew that falls all 
along the coast and is to be attributed to the action of the trade winds, 
which, blowing off shore, carry out to sea the surface water and thus 
bring up the cool strata from the depths. At Casa Blanca the rain- 
fall amounts to more than -iOO mm., at Cape Spartel it reaches nearly 
800 mm., at Tangiers it rises above 800 mm. Accordingly the entire 
coast land and all of North Morocco are capable of cultivation. In 
fact, in the Ilinterland of Mogador, in the provinces of Shedma, 
Haha, and Mtuga wide areas are covered by open woods of evergreens, 
that is, of argan trees. The woods more frequently, it is true, mere 
coppices, extend 70 km. inland, where the steppes begin. I have 
already pointed out that also in the zone of steppes, where the rainfall 
probablj'- remains considerably below 400 nnn. at Marnakest (the 
average seems to be slightly more than 200 nnn.) agriculture is not 
entirely out of the question. At the foot of the Atlas I saw wheat 
and barley fields on soil unwatered b}^ rivers, which again gives evi- 
dence of increased rainfall. 

The population of Morocco has not been the object of sufficient 
ethnologic investigation. Mv observations would lead me to the 
opinion that the Berber element is much more widely spread than is 
commonly supposed and that, even in the open country and the plains, 
it has been able to maintain itself as against the Arabic element 
although in many respects it is externally "Arabianized " and has 
adopted the Arabic speech. And yet on the high plateau a day's 
march east of Marralcesh I found Berbers that have preserved their 
own tongue. In the Avhole of North Morocco, even in the vicinity of 
Tangiers, live pure Berbers, the Amazirghs, and in the southwestern 
part of the Atlas Vorland, in Shedma, Haha, and Mtuga, and in the 
entire ]Moroccan Atlas, live the Berber Shilha. The Arabic element 
is predominatingly nomadic and limited for the most part to the 
plains of central Morocco; but the Arabic tribe of HoAvara, living 
among Ber))ers, has taken up settled hal)itation also in the Sus. As 
soon as you enter the hilly and mountainous districts j^ou realize that 
SM 1004 24 



370 MOKOCCO. 

3'ou are in the midst of a Berber population. The city population is 
mixed, but chiefly Berber, and the Berbers in Morocco cling to the soil, 
industriously devoting themselves to agriculture, truck farming, and 
tree growing. In the mountains they have introduced artificial irriga- 
tion and careful culture of the soil in terraces. Even the pure Berber 
tribes of the above-mentioned border land between El Gharb and P^l 
Hans have permanent villages in the mountains, in which they live, 
however, only in summer. The completely "Arabianized " Beni 
Ahsen in the low valley of the Sebu are also settled in their habits, 
even though they live in circular tent villages. Every night they 
drive their herds into the corral formed by the tents. 

The number of negroes who originally came as slaves from the 
Sudan is very great in Morocco, and the farther south you go the 
more numerous they become. But this element is probably on the 
road to extinction, since increase b}^ immigration is prevented by the 
French occupation of the Sudan. 

Jews are scattered all over Morocco; individual families and 
groups are to be found far in the interior and in the villages of the 
Atlas. Like the Polish nobleman of former times, no kadi seems 
to be able to get along without his court Jew. They are most 
numerous in the cities, especially on the coast, where they enjoy 
most protection, and they are wandering there in numberg from the 
interior. They play an important role in trade and are also handi- 
craftsmen to a large extent. 

Morocco is entirely an agricultural and pastoral country. Mining 
is unknown to-day; an industry which once flourished in a high de- 
gree has fallen into utter decay. It scarcely produces the most indis- 
pensable articles of daily use, and gradually more and more dress 
material, metal ware, and the like are introduced from Europe. In 
consequence of the inconceivable misgovernment the greater part of 
the population is iuipoverished, the spirit of enterprise is deadened, 
the desire for gain weakened, the export of grain, cattle, horses, and 
other important objects forbidden, and the construction of roads and 
bridges unknown. Commerce, therefore, is but slight. Though the 
basis for the statement is not official, yet it is a fair estimate to place 
the value of the yearly exports and imports at about $13,750,000. 
The foreigners chiefly concerned in the exjDorts are the Germans, who 
came to Morocco scarcely t-\vo decades ago, but in the imports the Ger- 
mans yield place to the English and the French. By this time, how- 
ever, German trade Avith Morocco is possibly second only to the 
English. 

The government is so bad tliat in times of drought or locust plagues 
it can not ward off famine, despite all its restrictions upon exj)ort, 
and it provokes frequent uprisings, through which whole districts are 
systematically laid waste and their inhabitants killed off. In fact one 



MOHorco. 



371 



ciin say with safotv at any linu' dial Ihciv is a revolt going on somewhere 
in Monuco. In coiiseqnenco of this misgovernment the popnhition is 
nowhere dense, not even in the most richly blessed regions. T believe 
that the rate of density is not more than 50 heads per sqnare kilometer 
in Abihu wliich is comijaratively thickly settled, and in which one 
comes npon a duar,thongh nsually a small one, every qnarter of an honr. 
And I also believe that the estimate which ascribes a population of 
S.OOO.OOO probably comes pretty near the truth; but this is certainly 
the maximum. Only a portion of this population, however, is bound 
together by political ties and yields to the authority of the Sultan. Of 
the (;00,000 square kilometers that I ascribe to Morocco by far the 
larger part belongs to what is in the country itself called Beled-es- 
Ssiba, " the independent territory," upon which the Sultan at best 
exercises influence as the religious head ; and only 180,000 square kilo- 
meters are comprised in Beled-el-Makhzen, " the land of the chan- 
cery," which includes the provinces acknowledging the authority of 
the^ Sultan. The kernel of the Beled-el-Makhzen is the Atlas Vor- 
land, of about 85,000 square kilometers and containing 8,000,000 in- 
habitants. 

In the hands of a European power which could develop the re- 
sources of this country still lingering in mediawalism and could make 
its position count for all it is worth, Morocco might become a political 
factor of the first rank — might, indeed, be capable of bringing about 
a change in the distribution of powder among the European States. 
At the same time, the fact must not be disregarded that it would be 
a long and difficult task to conquer the country. It would not be so 
hard to conquer the Atlas Vorland, which is open country throughout 
and easily accessible from the ocean, but all the more difficult to con- 
quer the Atlas Mountain countries and the thickly populated Rif ter- 
ritory. But little help w^ould be afforded by the existing division of 
the mountain folk into a number of small tribes, which rule them- 
selves democratically and are in a state of constant feud and vendetta 
with each other, for their love of freedom is ungovernable and the 
nature of the ground presents very great obstacles. This is especially 
true of the natural route by which France could chain Morocco to 
herself, the valley mentioned in the early part of this article, along 
which at this very moment war operations are taking place, and which 
will not be safe until the mountain folk to the north and the south, 
the mighty tribes of Rhiata, Hiaina, and others, will have been com- 
pletely conquered. 

And it is these very North-Moroccan Berbers that are now armed 
with the best European breechloaders, which they obtained through 
the smuggling that goes on from Spain and Gibraltar and, perhaps, 
recently, from Algeria as well. It would seem as though the European 
•powers, well aware of the frightful danger to the world's peace in- 



372 MOROCCO. 

volvecl in the discussion of the Moroccan question, wish even now at 
any cost to keep intact this State that holds European civilization in 
scorn. Perhaps the question for France is only to. break the influence 
of the English, which has grown very strong at court. It is curious 
that, to judge from the expressions of the press, the German Empire 
would seem to have no political interests in ISIorocco, while the fact is 
that all trading countries are concerned in the question of the Strait, 
and, in so far as economic interests are involved, Germany holds the 
second place. These interests Avould be devoted to destruction, our 
position as -^ world power and a great commercial country would be 
endangered in the highest degree, were Morocco in any form what- 
ever to fall into the hands of any one power, such as France, for 
instance. If sometime a change in the political map of this part of 
Africa becomes inevitable, the German Empire must get its share — 
El Haus and Sus. German interests at the Strait are protected, at 
need, if two powers hold each other in check there, Spain, it is self- 
understood, not being reckoned as a power. At all events, geo- 
grai)hical conditions are favarable to a political division of Morocco, 
which in all times has been a dormant issue. 



TTTK AVOIJK OF TUl] RECLAMATION SERVICE.* 



By F. H. Nkweix, 
Chief Eni/ineer of RecUtinatioii l^crricr, I'. <s'. Gcolof/icaJ >^iirvey. 



Durinfj tlie yenv 1004 there has been a notable increase in the 
knowledoe of the possibilities of development of the West, and a 
long- step has been taken toAvard the realization of some of these pos- 
sibilities by the beginning of construction of large irrigation works 
by the Government. The funds for this purpose are furnished by 
proceeds from the disposal of public lands in thirteen States and three 
Territories, and the operations have been carried on by the reclama- 
tion service under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior. 

The corps of engineers to which has been intrusted the work of 
planning and constructing the great irrigation works has been stead- 
ily increased and strengthened by the addition of experienced men 
through competitiA-e civil-service examination. At the same time 
the energies of the corps as a whole have been directed toward exam- 
ining into the possibilities of further work, reporting details of con- 
struction, and, toward pushing forward the operations with as great 
speed and energy as are compatible with economy and thoroughness. 
The work has reached the stage where, in the spring of 1005, water 
will be put upon several thousand acres of land in Nevada, and many 
of the larger structures of national importance will be well underway. 

In order to make choice of particular projects, it has been necessary 
to pass in review the physical conditions of the entire West and to 
consider from a broad standpoint the relative merits of an almost 
infinite number of possibilities. In any one State there are to be 
found feasible projects, large and small, and the entire reclamation 
fund and all of the energies of its engineers could profitably be de- 
voted to that State. It is necessary, however, under the general terms 
of the law, to do something in each State or Territory and to expend 
as far as practicable the major portion of the fund derived from that 
State Avithin its boundaries, 

"An abstract of an address before the National Geographic Society, January 

y2, 1005, revised by the author and brought up to date. This article is in con- 

• tmuation of a paper i)rinted in the Smithsonian Report for 1903, pp. 827 to 841. 

373 



374 THE WORK OF TTTE RECLAMATION SERVICE. 

For practical purposes tlie term " major portion " of the fund as 
used in the law is considered to be 51 per cent. That is to say, if in 
the course of time $2,000,000 is derived from the disposal of lands in 
North Dakota, at least $1,020,000 should be set aside for projects in 
that State, if found feasible, while $980,000 could be utilized else- 
Avhere. If the entire fund from all the States and Territories 
amounted to $20,000,000, then $10,200,000 may be considered as 
fixed or restricted and $9,800,000 can be expended in one or more 
of the States according to the discretion of the Secretary of the 
Interior. 

The problem of picking out the best projects is thus a double one. 
First, within each particular State and Territory the best scheme 
must be chosen, and second, taking all of the States and Territo- 
ries, the best projects, irrespective of State lines, can then be selected 
and the minor portion of the fund utilized in their construction. 
There Is thus oft'ered a wide latitude for judgment and there is 
required for correct decision a full and comprehensive knowledge 
of the entire West. This knowledge is not confined to physical con- 
ditions or engineering details alone, but nuist take into account the 
social or political conditions and the financial problems involved — 
that is to say, the character of the people, the transportation possibili- 
ties, the kind of crops, and the markets for these, must all be taken 
into account, as Avell as the cost and permanence of the structures. 

In order to give the Secretary of the Interior full information and 
advice concerning this great range of conditions, the reclamation 
service has been organized in such a way as to bring together men 
experienced in practical affairs and in engineering details. All mat- 
ters of fact which bear upon the larger problems are assembled by 
men in the field, arranged and presented in concise form to boards of 
engineers convened from time to time to discuss the data and to 
arrive at definite conclusions. These engineers occupying consulting 
or administrative positions spend their entire time traveling about 
from ])oint to })oint, personally examining all of the conditions, so 
that when brought together each man has a large fund of personal 
knoAvledge ujx)!! whi(;h to draw. This, and the new data presented, 
enables the board, with its past experience, to take up decisively a 
large range of facts and after discussion and deliberation })resent 
these in the form of a few definite reconnuendations. 

For each })roject a l)<)ard is convened consisting of the men who are 
most familiar with the essential facts. This board takes into con- 
sideration all matters of water suppW, character of foundations, and 
materials for construction, also the design and operation of each part 
of the work; the character of the lands to be supplied, the amount 
of alkali in the soil, necessity of drainage, the climatic conditions, 
crops to be grown, transportation and market facilities, together 



rvi 



\ * 



V ■^■' 







'I 







1! 



THE WORK OF THE RECT.AMATTON SERVICE. 375 

with numerous other details. After ^oiii^.." over all of these matters 
on the iiTound the project hoard puts its recommendations in writ- 
in<;. These are transmitted to the chief engineer and by him to 
the Director of the (Jeoloiiical Survey, and finally to the Secretary of 
the Interior. These reconnnendations generally lead up to construc- 
tion. Contracts are prepared after advertisements have been widely 
distributed and bids are ivceived after the usual manner. 

It must not be sui:)posed that when the work of the reclamation 
service was begun by the (government there was an untouched field 
for its operations in the arid regions. On the contrary, private and 
corporate enterprise had been for years at work in the West and had 
considered nearly every opportunity which exists. In fact, one of the 
chief arguments for the passage of the reclamation act Avas that pri- 
vate enterprise had practically exhausted the field from the stand- 
point of financial returns, and if the West was to be developed and 
homes made for a great population it could only be done by the Gov- 
ernment taking up the matter, not for direct profit in dollars and 
cents, but on a basis of getting back the investment without interest 
and without profit. The indirect gain to the whole country would be 
far larger than the loss of interest on the investment. In going over the 
ground, therefore, it has been found that the speculator has not been 
idle. He has filed upon or now claims nearly every natural oppor- 
tunity in the way of water rights or of reservoir location. The laws 
of the United States are very broad, and practically any man can file 
upon or lay claim to lands available for purposes of power develop- 
ment or Avater storage. It thus becomes possible for the speculator to 
tie up and remove from use many of the great natural resources 
of the West. For example, a corj^oration developing electric power 
at one point can file upon and secure every other power site for hun- 
dreds of miles, and at relatively small expense create a monopoly. 
The Government coming into the field later is frequently put in the 
position of being compelled to buy back at large cost the valuable 
rights which it has recently given away. 

The State laws regarding water rights are in many cases very 
indefinite and speculators can, by posting notice, lay claim to the 
waters of various rivers, although they do not have the financial means 
to utilize them, or they may make filings upon reservoir sites or enter 
\nider the various land laws tracts of land which command the situa- 
tion. It thus results that reservoirs can not be constructed without 
buying out these rights at high prices. In short, the present land 
laws and their administration favor monopoly in water, and the Gov- 
ernment or the bona fide investor is at great disadvantage in attempt- 
ing to develop the country or to create homes for settlers. These 
conditions have greatly hampered the work of the reclamation service. 

If it were possible to find any considerable number of localities 



876 THE WORK OF THE RECLAMATION SERYTCE. 

where the Government conhl c;o in with a free hand, take the nnutil- 
ized waters, bniUl the works withont impediment, and divert the 
water to public hind, the problem would be very simple. On the con- 
trary, the reclamation service must fii'st ascertain, often at great ex- 
pense and after a long- delay, the fact as to whether there is any water 
not yet appropriated, and whether it is possible to establish a legal 
claim to this water. It must then endeavor to get a clear title to the 
sites for its hydraulic works, as most of these commanding positions 
have already been seized by speculators. The owners of small tracts 
scattered here and there through public lands must be organized into 
water-users' associations in order that they may be dealt with on a 
business basis. The building of the Avorks is relatively a simple mat- 
ter compared to the solution of many of these problems, which re(|nire 
that the engineers shall be at the same time business men and that 
they may have the assistance of shrewd and able lawj'ers and finan- 
ciers. 

Amoiig the most difficult matters to be determined is the relation 
between i3rivate enterprise and the operations of the reclamation serv- 
ice. It must be borne in mind at all times that practically all of the 
irrigation development of the West has been carried on l)y individ- 
uals or associations, and that while most of the easily constructed 
works have been built, there are others which are still attractive to 
the promoter. In nearly every locality where there are opportunities 
of reclaiming public lands on a large scale, it also happens that there 
is something which may be made a source of profit to a shrewd 
investor. 

It may be said, generally speaking, that no large irrigation work 
has been financially successful. It has frequentW been pointed out 
that all irrigation Avorks may be divided into two classes, roughly 
designated as large and small. The small Avorks or ditches built by 
farmers or associations of settlers have, almost Avithout exception, 
been successful in every respect. The large enterprises, where stoclc 
and bonds liaA^e been sold and capital brought in from the East or 
from foreign countries, have, almost without exception, proved finan- 
cially unprofitable and haA^e had a long and invoh^ed history of dis- 
appointment and occasional bankruptcy. NeA^ertheless, in spite of 
this almost uniA^ersal experience, there are still optimistic individuals 
who plan to a\^oid all failures of the past and prepare gloAving pros- 
pectuses of neAV enterprises which it is alleged, if properly manipu- 
lated, will bring large returns to investors. As soon as the Govern- 
ment shoAvs an interest in an}' particular locality some energetic pro- 
moter at once concludes that there may be something there Avhich may 
be of value to himself. If it should be decided that a project must be 
stopped as soon as unj private interest of this kind is encountered, 
.the Avork of the reclamation service Avould soon come to a halt. 



THE WORK OF THE RECLAMATION SERVICE. 377 

As before stated, nearly every possibility of reclamation has been 
under consideration by somebody at some time, and while every effort 
should be made to avoid interference, it is not fair to the communities 
concerned nor to the Connnonwealth for the reclamation service to 
step aside in favor of speculative enterprises, es])ecially when they 
would only partly develop the opportunities. 

The following paraii'raphs are (juoted from a statement by Hon. 
Thonuis K. Bard, a Senator from California, and chairman of the 
Senate Committee on Irrigation : 

It is n>(Oi,'nized that the pi'liuary purpose of the rechimation act is to utilize 
the i)ul)lic (loinain by means of irrigation and make it available for occupation 
by settlers. The right to the use of the water provided by the expenditure of 
the reclamation fund must be ])ernianently attached to the land irrigated, and 
"beneticial use" is made tlie basis, the measure, and the limit of the right. In 
every case where a considei-able jtart of the irrigal)le lands are owned by the 
Government it is clearly inconsistent with the spirit of the act to j)ermit such 
lands to be subject forever to a load of charges for interest and profits to be 
paid ui)on private capital invested in the irrigation works, these charges being 
in addition to a high cost of maintenance. This is especially questionable where 
the water, instead of being attached to the land as an appurtenant right, is 
owned and controlled by nonresident landlords. 

TIk^ reclamation act applies also to land in private ownership, and it is plain 
that the general welfare of the nation re(iuires that the water resources should 
lie made to subserve the greatest possible good. The declaration of the law that 
the riglit to the use of the wiiter shall be appurtenant to the land and that bene- 
ficial use shall limit the right must be uudersood as a recognition of the general 
priucii)les and policies. 

By keeping the obvious intent of tlu> law in mind it will be possible to solve 
many of the difiicult questions which arise when private irrigation enterprises 
interfere with Government projects. It is clearly the duty of the Reclamation 
Service to investigate and determine whether a given in-ivate enterprise is 
coxupetent to utilize the irrigation resources to the fullest extent, and whether 
the private works are of a permanent character. It is entirely proi)er for the 
Service to refuse to abandon its own projects until satisfactory guaranties are 
given that these requirements will be provided. 

In short, the Service may, in the interest of the public, determine what shall 
be the character and scope of the work to be undertaken by private enterprise 
in this particular locality, and what shall be the burden to be carried by the 
irrigated lands, and may properly assert that a compliance with such require- 
ments shall be the conditions upon which the Government shall surrender its 
right to provide the works and abandon its project. 

The reservoir sites and similar essential portions of a comitrehensive project 
should be withdrawn from sjieculative entry by the IJeclamation Service and 
held for the largest practicable irrigation development. In cases where with- 
drawals have l>een made and investigations begun, and where promoters ask 
the Reclamation Service to step aside for their own benefit, they should be able 
to show, first, that they intend to construct in good faith and are not merely 
speculators, and. second, that the project to be constructed will be of real ]mblic 
benefit, will develop the country fully, iind will not act as an obstruction to 
more comprehensive or economical systems. 



378 



THE WORK OF THE RECLAMATION SERVICE. 



The fund created by the act of June 17, 1902, is added to from time 
to time by the proceeds from the disposal of public lands. These 
proceeds for the fiscal year ending on the 30th of June are as follows : 

1901 $3, 144, 821. 91 

1902 4, 585, 520. 53 

1903 8,713,990.00 

1904 (approximate) — 0,508,497.42 



Total 23, 012, 830. 4(! 

The fund probably reached its maximum in 1903, and the annual 
increments may be expected to be steadily diminished. If, however, 
it is assumed that the proceeds for the current fiscal year of 1905 are 
$5,000,000, there will be available by June 30, 1905, in round numbers, 
a total of $28,000,000. 

The following table gives the names of the States and Territories 
from which the fund is derived, these being arranged in numerical 
order, Oregon, the State from which the largest portion of the fund 
has come, being placed first on the list. The last in order is Nevada. 
Opposite the name of each State and Territory is given the aggregate 
amount derived up to and including June 30, 1904, and also the 
restricted portion of the fund, or 51 per cent, this being accepted as the 
meaning of that portion of the Reclamation Act which declares it to 
be the duty of the Secretary to expend the major portion of the fund 
in the State in which it arose. 

A glance at this table shows that as a rule the States where irriga- 
tion is most needed have furnished the least amount of money. This 
might be expected, as these States are arid in character and the lands 
are not readily disposed of. 

Funds available tinder the reclamation laio on June 30, 1904. 



State or Territory. 


Aggregate. 


Restricted 

portion, or 51 

per cent. 




$4,230,659.75 

3,406,100.14 

2,735,362.98 

2, 552, 137. 3;^ 

1,971,908.21 

1,749,002.90 

l,645,52!t.55 

1,591, 167. 5(i 

87.5,253.88 

742,780.60 

477,97.3.42 

420,202.26 

302,351.03 

1(«,403.86 

97,849.58 

48,153.41 


$2,157,636.47 




1,737,111.07 




1,39.5,035.12 




1,301,590.04 




1,00.5,673.19 




891,9!) 1.48 




8;«,220.07 




811,495.46 




446,379.4,S 




378,818. U 


Nebraska. - 


24:^766.44 
214,:i03. 15 


Utah 


154,190.02 




84,86.5.97 




49,S)03.28 




24,558.24 






Total - 


23,012,836.46 


11,736,546.59 







Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Newell 



Plate V. 




Detailed View of Shoshone Dam Site, Shoshone, Wyo., Looking DowNSTREA^ 

Shoshone Project. 



THE WORK OF THE RECT.AMATION SERVTCE. 



S7\) 



The list below gives the principal projects in each State which, 
from present knowledge, appear to be most desirable for pushing to 
completion. Some of these have beiMi definitely approved by the 
Secretary of the Interior and others are in various stages preliminary 
to such ai)proval. The steps leading up to the adoption of a project 
are about as follows: 

First, a reconnaissance is made Avhich determines in a general way 
tlie desirability of making a definite survey. When this survey is 
well advanced or has been completed the project is brought to the 
attention of the Secretary for tentative approval, and authority is 
obtained for further detailed investigation and for the acquisition of 
lands or rights which may be needed. The next step is generally the 
completion of detailed drawings and specifications. The whole mat- 
ter is then referred by the chief engineer to a project board for care- 
ful consideration and report. 

Principal projects under consideration. 



State or Territory. 



Arizona 

California 

Colorado 

Idaho 

Kansas 

Montana 

Nebraska 

Nevada 

New Mexico... 
North Dakota . 

Oklahoma 

Oregon 

South Dakota. 

Utah 

Washington . . 
Wyoming 



Project. 



Salt River 

Yuma 

Gunnison 

Minidoka 

Arkansas 

Milk River 

North Platte . - 

Truckee 

Hondo - - 

FortBuford... 

Red River 

Malheur 

Belief ourche . . 

Utah Lake 

Palouse River. 
Shoshone 



Acres 
irrigable. 



160,000 

85,. 500 

100,000 

130,000 

10,000 

60,000 

100,000 

200,000 

10,000 

60,000 

40,000 

90,000 

60,000 

60,000 

100,000 

160,000 



The estimated cost per acre of this reclamation ranges from $20 to 
$30 and averages about $25. 

In addition to the principal projects above listed reconnaissance 
surveys are being carried on in each of the 13 States and 3 Territories, 
and alternative projects are also being examined with a view to con- 
struction if the principal j^rojects are for any reason found to be 
impracticable. It is proposed to have these alternative projects care- 
fully examined and ready for construction as soon as the principal 
])rojects are out of the way. The following paragraphs give briefly 
the present stage of knowledge concerning each of the principal 
projects : 
■ Arizona. — The Salt River project contemplates the storage of water 



380 THE WORK OF THE RECLAMATION SERVICE. 

for irrigating approximately 160,000 acres of land and the develop- 
ing of pumping facilities for an additional acreage. The cost will 
probably be about $20 per acre, and ultimately from $3,000,000 to 
$4,000,000 will be expended. 

California. — The Yuma project on the lower Colorado Eiver as 
noAY outlined involves the reclamation of 85,500 acres at a cost of $35 
per acre, the land being on both sides of the river, in California and 
Arizona. 

Colorado. — The Gunnison project contemplates the reclamation of 
100.000 acres of land in the Uncompahgre Valley, at a cost of about 
$25 per acre. This land is largely in private ownership. The project 
involves the building of a tunnel 6 miles long from Gunnison River. 

Idaho. — The Minidoka project is designed to reclaim 130,000 to 
130,000 acres of vacant public land on both sides of Snake Eiver, at a 
cost of $26 per acre. This is to be accomplished by the construction 
of dam and canals and development of the gravity and pumping 
systems. 

Kansas. — Along Arkansas River it is probable that water can be 
pumped from the underlying gravels. Investigations have been made 
which indicate that considerable development of j^rivate lands may 
take place imder the terms of the reclamation act. 

Montana. — The Milk River project is designed to reclaim nearly 
60,000 acres of land, mostly public, and located mainly on the south 
side of Milk River, east of Malta, Mont. Water will be stored in 
reservoirs. The cost will be from $20 to $25 per acre. 

Nebraska. — The Xorili Platte project is designed to reclaim an 
undetermined area on both sides of North Platte River, in both W^^o- 
ining and Nebraska. Water will be stored in Wyoming and canals 
built, heading in the State. Most of the land is now in private own- 
ership. The cost of reclamation will probably be between $30 and 
$35 per acre. 

Nevada. — The Truckee project, now under construction, will re- 
claim upward of 150,000 acres, at a cost of about $26 per acre. There 
are a number of ramificaticms which are yet to be worked out, and 
these may result in a larger development. 

New Mexico. — The Hondo project, in the vicinity of Roswell, will 
irrigate about 10,000 acres, a portion of which is in private owner- 
ship. The cost Avill be upward of $25 Y)Qy acre. Water is to be 
obtained from flood storage in a reservoir to be constructed on the 
north side of Hondo Riv^er. 

North Dakota. — The Fort Buford project is designed to reclaim 
60,000 acres on the west side of Yellowstone River, in Montana and 
North Dakota, at a cost of about $30 per acre. Most of this land is 
in private ownership. 

Oklahoma. — In this TerrUorv reconnaissance has shown tliat water 



THE WORK OF THE RECLAMATION SERVICE. 381 

may be stored on the north fork of Red River, and it is believed that 
fiirth(>r exploration will show that there are lands which can be profit- 
ably irrigated by this stored Avater, at a cost of not to exceed $20 per 
acre. 

Oregon. — The Malheur project, on both sides of Malheur River, 
west of Ontario, will reclaim, by storage of flood waters of Malheur 
River, about 00,000 acres, at a cost of about $30 per acre. 

So\ith Pal'otd. — The Bellefourche project contemplates the recla- 
mation of CO.OOO acres of arid land, largely public, situated northerly 
from the Black ITills, by the storage of flood waters of Bellefourche 
River. The cost will be about $30 per acre. 

Utah. — The Utah Lake project contemplates the utilization of 
waters tributary to Utah Lake and the reduction of evaporation 
losses by drawing down the lake. It is possible that 60,000 acres 
may be reclaimed, at a cost of $35 per acre. 

Washinf/ton. — The Palouse project is for the redemption of arid 
lands near Pasco by storage in Washtucna reservoir. Possibly 
100,000 acres, mainly in private ownership, can be reclaimed, at a 
cost of $30 per acre. 

Wyoming. — The Shoshone project is designed to reclaim 160,000 
acres of public land in the Bighorn basin, north of Shoshone River. 
Water will be stored and diverted at a cost of $25 per acre. 



THE YUMA RECLAMATION PROJECT. « 



By J. T.. LiPPiNcoTT, Siiitcrri.siiui Enijinccr. 



ITndcr the provisions of the Kechiiuatioii Act of 1902 ^ all the 
public lands along the Colorado River from the Grand Canyon to 
the Mexican line were withdrawn, pending a general investigation. 
Surveys were at once begun of this district and data are now in the 
possession of the Secretary of the Interior relative to all projects 
therein. It is estimated that there are betAveen 300,000 and 400,000 
acres of irrigable valleys between the points named, immediately 
adjacent to the river and exclusive of irrigable lands in interior 
valleys removed from the river. There are also 92,000 acres of mesa 
lands near Ynma suitable for the production of citrus fruits, that 
may be reached by pumping from the valley canal systems. 

It has been decided that the proper point of beginning for tlie 
reclamation of this vast area is in the immediate neighborhood of 
Yuma. This enterprise does not include or interfere with the irriga- 
tion of private lands by individuals and corporations in the vicinity 
of Imperial, and there is no apparent reason Avhy there should be any 
friction between these irrigation systems and those resulting from the 
construction of this Federal work. 

During the winter season of 1903-4 the reclamation service made 
surveys for the irrigation of the valley lands of the Colorado and 
Gila rivers in the immediate vicinit}^ of Yuma, Ariz., and the Yuma 
Indian Reservation in California, looking toward the utilization 
of the Colorado River for their water supply. These surveys in- 
cluded the making of a topographic map, on the scale of 100 feet 
to the inch, at the Laguna dam site and soundings for bed rock and 
foundations at that point. On the California side of the river, along 

a Reprinted, by permission, from Outwest, San Francisco, June, 1904. 

6 It is provided among otiaer tliinj-'s in this act that water may not be fur- 
nished by the Depju-tinent for the irrigation of more than IGO acres belonging 
to any one indivicUial. ^Yhether tlie lands are filed ui)()n suhsecjuent to their 
withdrawal under the Reclamation Act or are in private ownership under 
previous filings. Also, that water so supplied can be furnished only to parties 
residing on the lands or hi their immediate neighborhood. 

383 



384 THE YUMA RECLAMATION PROJECT. 

the route to be occupied by a possible canal, a map has been made 
on the scale of 100 feet to the inch with a small contour interval. 
On the Arizona side of the river a map has been made, on the scale 
of 100 feet to the inch, from the Laguna dam site to Yuma along 
the canal line, and in addition a number of angle-line surveys have 
hcQu run for the exact determination of the location for the canal. 
Below Yuma transit surveys have been made for the location of the 
canal. At the crossing of the (iila River a map has been drawn on 
a scale of 100 feet to the inch, and soundings made for bed rock. 
Preliminary location surveys have been made for a complete set 
of levees from the Laguna dam site to the INIexican line, on both 
sides of the Colorado Elver, and also on each side of the Gila Elver. 
A drainage system has been projected upon the topogi-aphic map> 
which have been made of the entire district to an elevation of 150 
feet above river level, and to the scale of 2 inches to the mile. Sur- 
veys have been made preliminary to estimates for pumping plants 
for irrigation and draining. A consulting electrical and mechani- 
cal engineer has examined the ground and made plans and estimates 
therefor. 

A board of six consulting engineers has been through the estimates 
of the engineers in charge in detail, and the report which is sub- 
mitted is the result of the deliberations and best judgment of all 
these men, and all estimates and plans have been brought to the 
complete satisfaction of each person. 

In the Yuma Indian Eeservation on the California side of the 
river it is estimated that there will be within the levees 16,000 acres, 
and on the Arizona side it is estimated there will be 91,000 acres 
under the system, making a total of 107,000 acres. Of this area it is 
estimated that 5,000 acres next to the Mexican line in Arizona will 
be subject to overflow in such a way as to temporarily exclude them 
from the irrigable areas, and in addition a small percentage of the 
remaining lands are known to be in sand dunes that will be above 
the level of the canal lines. In all, it is estimated that on both sides 
of the river there will be a total of 86,700 acres of irrigable land, of 
which 73,100 acres are in Arizona. The water supply of the Colo- 
rado Elver is adequate for the irrigation of this area. 

A number of different designs for the diversion weir have been 
estimated upon in the study for the most economical type that may 
be built in safety at this point. Several different locations have 
also been examined to determine the best place for this structure, 
bed rock having been explored for, with diamond-core drilling ma- 
chinery, at all possible dam sites between Yuma and Picacho. As 
a result of these explorations, the Laguna weir site has been selected 
as the most desirable one for the construction of a Aveir to serve the 
lands near Yuma, a high dam and high-line canal being considered 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Lippincott. 



Plate I. 





1- 



V 



v,v>^ 




il. 




\ 



V 



(;t, Arizona. 

pc-jHO Ottt. C.M-i, 



Relief Map of the Yuma Project. 



THE YUMA EECLAMATTON PROJECT. H85 

impossible. The type of weir selected is one that has been tried dur- 
ing the last fifty years at numerous places in India and Egypt under 
similar conditions, three dams having been constructed on the Nile 
Kiver within the past fifteen years on practically this same plan, all 
having served their purpose efficiently and being in operation to-day. 
This tyjic of weir consists of a loose rock structure with a pfiving of 
tones 2 feet in thickness on the downstream slope, the structure 
ix'ing tied together with three parallel Avails of concrete run longi- 
tudinally between the granite abutments on the two sides of the 
river, and the entire structure being further made secure by an 
apron of loose rock pitching 10 feet in thickness and 50 feet in 
widtli at the lower toe of the dam below the sloping pavement. The 
height of this weir is to be 10 feet above low water and the slope of 
I he downstream side is 12 feet horizontal to 1 foot vertical, with 
the r)()-f()ot apron below. The design calls for the upper core wall 
of concrete to rest upon a row of sheet piling driven into the bed of 
the river. 

The handling of the silt of the Colorado is one of the most difficult 
features of this undertaking. It is known that its amount is very 
large. The river is on a grade of approximately 1 foot to the mile 
above the Lagama weir site, so that this weir, 10 feet high, will make 
a settling basin of relatively quiet water approximately 10 miles in 
length above it. At each end of the weir, and constructed in solid 
granite rock, will be a sluiceway 400 feet wide on the Arizona side 
and 40 feet wide on the California side with provision for its enlarge- 
ment to 200 feet when desired, and excavated to the depth of 2 feet 
below low water in the river. These sluiceways will be closed by 
large gates operated mechanically. The diversion canals will take 
their water above these gates from the sides of the sluicewaj^s. 
The area of these sluiceways being so great, the water movement 
toward the canal will be slow and most of the sediment will be 
•leposited before reaching the canal intake. When this has accumu- 
lated to a considerable extent, the sluice gates will be opened, and it 
is estimated that their capacity will be approximately 20,000 cubic 
feet per second. This great volume of Avater passing through the 
sluiceways when the gates are opened Avill carry out with it the 
sediment deposited above the intake of the canal. The ordinary Ioav- 
>tage flow of the Colorado River is from 3,000 to 4,000 cubic feet per 
-econd; so the capacity of these sluiceways will be about five times 
ihe low-water flow of the river. These figures are given for pur- 
poses of comparison only. As the result of a number of experiments 
it has been found that the principal quantity of silt is carried 
:\long near the bottom of the river, and that the surface water is 
relatively free from sediment. It is planned, therefore, to take the 
SM 1904 — —25 



386 THE YUMA RECLAMATION PROJECT. 

Avater into the canals b}^ a skinnning process over a long row of gates, 1 
so that the entire capacity of the canal can be furnished by drawing 
but 1 foot in depth of water from the surface of the river. Every por- 
tion of this weir and headworks, as designed, Avould be of rock, con- 
crete, or steel, with the exception of the sheet piling, which will be 
driven entirely below the water level, and so will not decay. . Every 
portion of the Aveir Avill be what is known as permanent construction. 
Such character of work Avill, of course, be expensive, but it has been 
proved to be sound economy to build in this way. 

The capacity of these canals at their intakes Avill be 1,G00 cubic 
feet per second on the Arizona side, and 200 cubic feet per second 
on the California side. The amount of silt that would be daily 
deliA'ered into the Arizona Canal, if diversion were made directly 
from the stream, would approximate 17,000 cubic yards of wet mud 
l)y volume. It is not believed to be possible for a canal to continu- 
ously operate successfully for the iri'igation of lands along the val- 
leys of the Colorado River unless some very substantial arrangements 
are made at the headworks for tlic handling of silt, and this is 
believed to be a justification for the expenditure proposed for these 
headworks; also the water must be held to a fixed level at the canal 
heading for all stages of the river. This structure Avill cost approxi- 
mately $1,000,000. It is not considered possible to remoA^e all of the 
silt from the Avater, but the canals have been designed so that the 
A'elocities Avill be sufficient to couA^ey through to the fields the light 
material entering the canals from the intake. 

Careful study has been made of the existing canals in the A'icinit}^ 
of Yuma and Imperial to determine the shape that they naturally 
assume, and the roughness of the bottom and sides, Avhich tends to 
retard the A^elocity. Based upon these data, the canals have been so 
designed as to carrA^ Avater at a higlier A^elocity throughout than Avill 
be found in the settling basins above their head, and of such velocity 
as Avill permit of a minimum loss by seej^age and eA'aporation. The 
gates and drops of these canals and the Yuma bridges are designed 
as steel concrete structures. A distribution system has been esti- 
mated upon to furnish Avater to each IGO-acre tract. There will be 
small areas of land in the upper (jila Valley, and beloAv Yuma, that 
Avill have to be serA^ed by pumj^ing ])lants, lifting the Avater from 
T) to 7 feet. The poAver for doing this will be furnished from a 
Avater-power plant to be erected above ^'uma at a di'op in the main 
canal. This power plant Avill also be used in connection Avith the 
drainage system. 

One of the most difficult problems in connection Avith this project 
is the crossing of the Gila Kiver. It has been considered necessary 
(o make (his pei-fcclly safe, and foi- this puri)Ose a structure has been 
designed that will cross beneath the bed of the river, the top to be 



TIIK \V^]\ in'X'T.AMATTON PROJECT. 887 

several feet helow the lowe^l point of tlie stream bed. This striicltire 
will he of steel and i-oiierete. some ;>.()()() feet in leniith. It Avill he an 
inverted syphon consist inf>- of four concrete pipes 10 feet in diameter 
reinforced with steel rods. 

Because of the annual rise of the Colorado River, a large portion 
of the lands along this stream are suhject to annual overfloAv, which 
practically prevents residence thereon, as well as the farming of 
I hem. without jjrotective works. The levee, therefore, is considered 
an essential feature of the enterpi'ise. The shape of levee adopted 
is one that has been developed hy years of experience along the 
J\lississii)[)i Iviver. It will have a slope of 3 feet horizontal to 1 
foot vertical on the water side, and 2^ feet horizontal to 1 foot vertical 
on the land side; it will be 8 feet wide on top, and be l)uilt 5 feet 
above the highest water marks of the year 1903. These levees will 
be 4,000 feet apart (one on each side) along the Colorado River, 
and O.-200 feet ai)art along the (iila River. 

Because these lands are so flat, and the level of the water in the 
ground so near the surface, it is considered necessary, for their 
permanent safe irrigation, to supply a drainage system. A main 
drainage canal has been designed to run through the central portion 
of the areas to be irrigated, and when possible the natural drainage 
lines of the country will be utilized, deepening them with a steam 
dredger to such depth that they will carry oil' the water returning 
from irrigation or seeping through the levees during the high-water 
stage of the river. 

When lands in any district tend to become alkaline they may 
be connected, by means of local drainage canals, with this main 
drain, and in this manner they could be kept free from alkali by 
holding down the level of the ground water. During the greater 
portion of the year, when the river is low, this drainage water 
would be discharged into the stream, but when the river is in flood 
its elevation will be such as to prevent a discharge into it from the 
drains. A pumping plant has therefore been designed to lift the 
drainage waters o\ev the levees during the flood period of the river 
to prevent the lands becoming water-logged. 

The whole system, as planned above, is one looking to the per- 
niancMit reclamation of this district by means of irrigation, levee, 
and drainage works. All portions of the system to be made of steel, 
conci'ete, or earthwork. 

The reports of the Department of Agriculture on the character 
of the soils of this valley, as Avell as past farming experience, indi- 
cate that they ai'e exceedingly fertile. The silt of the Colorado 
River, all of which can not be removed at the headworks, has high 
fertilizing properties. Undei' these conditions, and with proper 
handling of the system, the \alley should be perpetually fertile. 



388 THE YTTMA RECLAMATION PROJECT. 

The entire cost of this enterprise, providing all the area is irrigated 
which is indicated above, will amount, according to the estimate, 
to about $35 per acre irrigated. It is entirely possible, hoAvever, 
that as the construction Avork proceeds this cost may be somewhat 
increased or lessened, although an effort has been made to cover all 
contingencies, and the estimates of cost have been liberal. The price 
will range near $35 per acre, this to be j^aid for according to the pro- 
visions of the reclamation act and regulations of the Secretary of 
the Interior, in ten annual installments after the first delivery of 
water. The annual charge for maintenance and supervision of this 
sj^stem will be very low and probably materially less than $1 per 
acre. There will be no charge for interest, profit, or taxes. 

In order to keep the price as low as that estimated upon and to 
proceed with the construction of the works, it is necessary for all 
of the landowners of the portion of the district that is in Arizona, 
under the projected canal, to enter into an agreement with the 
Secretary of the Interior, through their local water users' associ- 
ation, for the payment for the water when it is delivered to them. 
The reclamation service has made the surveys and estimates required 
for the Secretar}^ of the Interior concerning the costs and character 
of these works; but it is absolutely necessary' for the local land- 
owners to submit to the Secretary, through their local associations, 
the contracts for the acceptance of the water; and also to provide 
for the rights of wa}^ required for the levee, power plants, trans- 
mission lines, etc. This has been done, about 98 per cent of the entire 
area under the project now^ being subject to the reclamation act. 

The Secretary of the Interior has set aside $3,000,000 of the recla- 
mation fund for the construction of this project, contingent ujjon 
the action of the landowners of this valley and their entering into 
contracts with the Department, in accordance with the provision 
of the reclamation act passed June 17, 1902. 

On March 15, 1905, bids for the construction of the dam were 
opened, and responsible bidders offered to build this structure for the 
amount estimated upon by the engineers. 



thp: evidence of evolution.- 



By Hugo De Vries. 



The noblo aim of university teaching is the lifting up of mankind 
to a higher appreciation of the ideas of life and trutJi. It has to cul- 
tivate the most intimate connection between theory and practice, 
betAveen abstract science and actual life. Throughout the world of 
research this connection is felt to be the real stimulus of the work, 
the very basis of its existence. American universities and American 
science have developed themselves on this leading principle, and it 
is especially on this account that high admiration is given them by 
their Euro^Dean sisters. Nowhere in this world is the mutual con- 
course between practice and science so general as here, and nowhere 
is the influence of the universities so widely felt as in this country. 
Perfect freedom of thought and investigation, unhampered rights 
of professing and defending one's conviction, even if it should be 
wholly contrary to the universal belief, are the high privileges of all 
real universities. Wealthy citizens spend their possessions in the 
founding of such institutions, convinced that this is the best way of 
promoting public welfare. The Government liberally supplies funds 
for scientific research whenever its application to practical business 
is clear. Your system of promoting agriculture by means of experi- 
ment stations, of scientifically conducted farm cultures, of inquiries 
in all parts of the world, and of collecting, introducing, and trying 
all kinds of plants that might become useful crops is not only 
admired, but even highly envied by us Europeans. 

It is not without hesitation that I have accepted the honorable 
invitation to speak before this renowned center of learning. The 
ideas to which I have been conducted by my experiments are to a 
large degree different from current scientific belief. But I have 
trusted to your willingness to listen to new facts and divergent con- 
victions, and to your readiness to acknowledge whatever spark of 
truth might be found in them. Unbiased by prejudice, the calm 
air of the university and the enthusiasm of youth seeking only truth, 
and convinced that only pure truth can bring real progress, are the 
judges to which I gladly submit my conceptions. " 

My ideas have grown slowly, and have only reached their definite- 
ness and full development under the protection of the high principles 

o Convocation address. University of Chicago, September 2, 1904. Printed 
•liere by permission of the aiitbor. 

389 



390 THE EVIDENCE OF EVOLUTION. 

of iiniversitj'^ freedom. I have needed nearly twenty years to develop 
them and to gather the evidence by means of which I hope to convince 
yon. I kept my secret until some years ago, and worked only for 
myself. In this respect old universities, as ours are in Europe, have 
a distinct advantage over 3^our 3'oung American institutions. With 
you all is sparkling and boiling, Avith us it is the quietness of solitude, 
even in the midst of a busy city. But your students and teachers 
are exjDected to show what they are doing, and to produce their results 
at short intervals. In Europe, on the contrary, we are trusted and 
left free even on this point. Hardly anybody has ever asked me 
what I was doing, and even those who from time to time visited my 
garden were content with what I could show them, without telling 
my real difficulties and my real hopes. 

To my mind this is a high privilege. The solution of the most 
intricate problems often does not require vast laboratory equipment, 
but it always requires patience and perseverance. Patience and per- 
severance in their turn require freedom from all pressure, and espe- 
cially from the need of publishing early and often unripe results. 
Even noAv I would prefer to spend this hour in recoiniting the obli- 
gations which the doctrine of evolution is under to such men as 
Lamarck and Darwin. I should like to point out how they have 
freed inquiry from prejudice and drawn the limits between religion 
and science ; how they have caused the principle of evolution to be the 
ruling idea in the whole dominion of the study of the organic world, 
and how this idea has been suggestive and successful, comprehensive 
and hopeful during a whole century of continuous research. Every- 
where it is recognized to take the leadership. It has been the means 
of inmnnerable discoveries, and whole sciences have been started from 
it. Enibr\'ology and ontogeny, phylogeny, and the new conceptions 
of taxonomy, paleontology of plants and of animals, sociology, his- 
tory, and medicine, and even the life history of the earth on which we 
live, are in reality in their present form the products of the idea of 
evolution. 

Instead of telling you of my own work, I should like to sketch the 
part which of late the scientists of the United States have taken in 
this work. Mainly in two lines a rapid advancement has been 
inaugurated in this country. I refer to the pure university studies 
and the work of the agricultural stations. Highly valuable is the 
application of science to agriculture in the improvement of races. 
Each of you knows how this artificial production of races of animals 
and plants was one of the great sources of evidence on which I);irwin 
founded his theory. But at his time the available evidence was only 
very scanty when we compare it with the numerous facts and the 
improved methods which now are the residt of half a century's 
additional work. America and Europe have combined in this line, 



THE EVIDENCE OF EVOLUTION. 391 

iiiul the \':ist aiiioiinl of facts, heiij^cd up by miiixM'ous in vest ig"a tors 
and iiunu'roiis wcll-t'ciuippcd instilulions, has jji-odiiced (juilc a new 
basis foi- a critical review of Dai'win's theory. 

1 have tried to conihinc all these too dispersed facts and to hrin*; 
(hem together, in order to obtain a fullei* proof for the main i)<)ints 
ol" Darwin's conception. In one subordinate point my resnlts have 
been different from those of Darwin, and it is this point which I have 
been invited by the kindness of your [)resident to discuss before you. 

Darwin's theory is connnonly indicated as the theory of natural 
selection. This theory is not the theory of descent. The idea of 
descent with modilication, which now is the basis of all evolutionary 
science, is (juite independent of the question how in the single 
instances the change of one species into another has actuall}^ taken 
place. The theory of descent remains nnshaken even if our conception 
concerning the mode of descent should [)rove to be in need of revision. 

Such a revision seeems now to be unavoidable. In Darwin's time 
little was known concerning the process of variability. It was impos- 
sil)le to niake the necessary distinctions. His genius recognized two 
contrasting elements — one of them he called sports, since they came 
rarely, unexpectedly, and suddenly; the other he designated as incli- 
\ idual (liH'erences, conveying thereby the notion of their presence in 
all individuals and at all times, but in variable degrees. 

Sports are accidental changes, resulting from unknown causes. 
In agricultural and horticultural practice they play a large part, and 
whenever they occur in a useful direction they are singled out by 
breeders aiul become the sources of new races and new varieties. 
Individiud dilferences are always present, no two persons being 
exactly alike. In the same wa}^ the shepherd recognizes all his sheep 
by distinct marks, and to find two ears in a field of wheat which can 
not be distinguished from one another by some peculiarit}^ is a prop- 
osition which everybody knows to be impossible. Many highly im- 
proved races of forage plants and agi"icultural crops have been pro- 
duced by intelligent breeders simply on the ground of these always 
available dissimilarities. They can be selected and accumulated, 
augmented and heaped up, until the new race is distinctly preferable 
to the original strain. 

In ordinary agricultural breeding, however, it is ver}^ difficult to 
distinguish sharply between these tAvo principles. Moreover, for 
practical purposes, this distinction has no definite use. The practice 
of selection is nearlj^ the same in both cases, and, besides hybridizing, 
wnth which we are not now concerned, selection is as yet practically 
the only means for the breeder to improve his races. Hence it came 
that at Darwin's time there was no clear distinction between the two 
types of variations, at least not to such an extent that a theor}^ of the 
"origin of species could confidently rely upon it. 



392 THE EVIDENCE OF EVOLtTTION. 

Quetelet's celebrated law of variability Avas jDublished only some 
years after the appearance of Darwin's Origin of Species. Variabil- 
ity seemed until then to be free from laws, and nearly everything 
could be ascribed to it or explained by it. But the renowned Belgian 
scientist showed that it obeys laws exactly in the same way as the 
remainder of the phenomena of nature. The law which rules it is the 
laAv of probability, and according to this law the occurrence of varia- 
tions, their frequency, and their degree of deviation can be calculated 
and predicted with the same certainty as the chance of death, of mur- 
ders, of fires, and of all those broad phenomena with which the 
science of sociology and the practice of insurance are concerned. 

The calculations of probable variations based on this most impor- 
tant law did not, however, respond to the demands of evolution. 
Specific characters are usually sharjDlj^ defined against one another. 
They are new and separate units more often than different degrees of 
the same qualities. Only with such, however, Quetelet's law is con- 
cerned. It explains the degrees, but not the origin, or new peculiari- 
ties. Moreover, the degrees of deviation are subject to reversion to 
mediocrity, always more or less returning in the progeny to the pre- 
Adous state. Species, on the contrary, are usually constant and do not 
commonly or readily revert into one another. It is assumed that from 
time to time specific reversions occur, but they are too rare to be com- 
parable with the phenomena which are ruled by the law of probability. 

A thorough study of Quetelet's law would no doubt at once have 
revealed the weak point in DarAvin's conception of the process of evo- 
lution. But it was published as part of a larger inquiry in the 
department of antliropology, and for years and years it has been 
prominent in that science, without, however, being applied to the cor- 
i-espondiiig phenomeua of the life of animals and of jolants. Only of 
late has it freed itself from its bounds, transgressed tlie old narrow 
limits, and displayed its prominent and universal importance as one of 
the fundamental laws of living nature. 

In doing so, however, it has become the starting point for a critical 
revieAV of the very basis of Darwin's conception of the pr.rt played by 
natural selection. It at once became clear that the phenomena whicli 
are ruled by this law, and Avhich are bound to such narrow limits, can 
not be a basis for the explanation of the origin of the species. It rules 
quantities and degrees of (qualities, but not the qualities themselves. 

Species, hoAvever, are not in the main distinguished from their 
allies by quantities nor by degrees; the vgij qualities may differ. 
The higher animals and plants are not only taller and heavier than 
their long- forgotten unicellular forefathers; they surpass them in 
large numbers of special characters, Avhich must have been acquired 
by their ancestors in the lapse of time. Hoav such characters have 
been brought about is the i-cal cpiestion Avith Avhich the theory of 



THE EVIDENCE OF EVOLUTION. 393 

evolution is concerned. Now, if they can not be explained by the 
sloAv and gradual accumulation of indiviihial variations, evidently 
the second alternative of Darwin's orii-inal proposition remains. 
This Avas based on the sports, on those rare and sudden changes Avhich 
from time to time are seen to occur among cultivated plants, and 
which in these cases give rise to new strains. If such strains can be 
proved to offer a better analogy to real systematic species, and if the 
sudden changes can be shown to occur in nature as well as they are 
known to occur in the culti\ated condition, then in truth Darwinism 
can afi'ord to lose the individual variations as a basis. Then there 
will be two vast dominions of variability, sharply limited and 
sharply contrasted with one another. One of them will be ruled by 
Quetelet's law of probability and by the unavoidable and continuous 
occurrence of reversions. It will reign supreme in the sciences of 
anthroi)ology and sociolog}^ Outside of these, the other will become 
a new'donuiin of investigation, and will ask to be designated by a new 
name. Fortunately, however, a real new designation is not required, 
since previous to Darwin's writings the same questions were largely 
discussed and since in these discussions a distinct name for the sud- 
den and accidental changes of species into one another was regularly 
used. At that time they were called " mutations," and the phenome- 
non of mutability was more or less clearly distinguished from that of 
variability in a more limited sense. Especially in France a serious 
scientific conflict raged on this point about the middle of the last 
century, and its near relation to religious questions secured it a large 
interest. Jordan and Godron were the leaders, and numerous dis- 
tinguished botanists and zoologists enrolled themselves under their 
banners. They cleared part of the way for Darwin and collected a 
large amount of valuable evidence. Their facts pleaded for the 
sharp and abrupt delimitation of their species, and asked for another 
exjilanation than that which was derived from the ordinary, slow, 
and continuous variations. 

Their evidence, however, Avas not complete enough to command tlie 
decision in their behalf. The direct proof of the sudden changes 
aould not he otiered by them, and they allowed themselves to be 
driven to the acceptance of supernatural causes on this account. 
Thereby, however, they lost their influence upon the progress of 
science, and soon fell into oblivion. 

Instead of following this historical line, however, I have now to 
point out one of the Aveightiest objections against the conception of 
the origin of species by means of slow and gradual changes. It is 
an objection which has been brought forAvard against Darwin from 
the very beginning, Avhich has never relented, and Avhich often has 
threatened to impair the Avhole theory of descent. It is the incompat- 
ibilitj' of the results concerning the age of life on this earth, as pro- 



394 THE EVIDENCE OF EVOLUTION. 

pounded by pliysicists and astronomers, with the demand made by the 
theory of descent. 

The deductions made by Lord Kelvin and others from the central 
heat of the earth, from the rate of the production of the calcareous 
deposits, from the increase of the amount of salt in the water of the 
seas, and from various other sources, indicate an age for the inhab- 
itable surface of the earth of some millions of years only, Tlie iiiost 
probable estimates lie between twenty and forty millions of years. 
The evolutionists of the gradual line, however, had supposed many 
thousands of millions of years to be the smallest amount that would 
account for the whole range of evolution, from the very first begin- 
ning until the aj)pearance of mankind. 

This large discrepancy has always been a source of doubt and a 
Aveapon in the hands of the opponents of the evolutionary idea, and it 
is especially in this country that much good work has been done to 
overcome this difficulty. The theory of descent had to be remolded. 
On this j)oint conviction has grown in America during the last 
decades with increasing rapicTity. Cope's works stand prominent 
among all, and much valuable discussion and evidence has been 
brought together. 

The decision, however, could only be gained by a direct study of the 
supposed mutations, but no distinct cases of mutability were at hand 
to prov^ide the material. Discussions took the place of inquiry, and 
a vast amount of literature has broadly pictured all the possibilities 
and all the more or less plausible explanations without being able 
to give proof or disproof. 

In this most discouraging state of things I concluded that tlie only 
Avay to get out of the prevailing confusion was to return to the 
method of direct experimental inquiry. Slow and gradual changes 
were accepted to be invisible or nearly so; mutations, however, 
would be clear and sharp, although of rare occurrence. I deter- 
mined to start on a search for them, and tried a large number of 
species, partly native forms of my own country and partly from 
different sources. Kach of them had to be tried as to its constancy, 
and large numbers of seedlings had to be produced and comj^ared. 
The chance of finding what I wanted was of course very small, and 
consequently tlie number of the experiments had to be increased as 
far as possible. 

Foi'tune has been propitious to me. It has brought into my gar- 
den a series of mutations of the same kind as those which are known 
to occur in horticuHure, and moreover it has aH'orded me an instance 
of imitabilit}^ such as would be supposed to occur in nature. The 
sudden changes, which initil yet were limited to the experience of the 
breeders, i)roved to be accessible to direct exi^erimental work. They 
can not yet in truth l)e produced artificially, but, on the other hand, 



THE EVIDENCE OP EVOLUTION. 395 

their occiin-iMico can bo jiivdicted in some cases with enough probability 
to justify the trial. Color changes in flowers, doubli' flowei-s, regulai- 
forms from labiate tyi)es. and others ha\e been producetl more or 
less at w ill in my garden, and under conditions NAdiich allowed of a 
close scientitic study. The suddemiess of the changes and the per- 
fection of the display of the new characters from the very beginning 
wei'c the most striking results. 

These facts, howe\er, only gave an experimental proof of j^henom- 
cna which were historically known to occui- in horticulture. They 
thrcM light ui)on the way in which cultivated plants usually produce 
n(Mv forms, but l)etween them and the real origin of species in nature 
the old gap evidently remained. 

This gap, however, had to be filled out. Darwin's theory had con- 
cluded with an analogy, and this analogy had to be replaced by direct 
observation. 

Success has attended my efforts even on this point. It has brought 
into my hands a species which has been taken in the very act of pro- 
ducing neAv forms. This species has now been observed in its wild 
locality during eighteen years, and it has steadily continued to repeat 
the phenomenon. I have brought it into my garden, and here, under 
my very eyes, the production of new species has been going on, rather 
increasing in rate than diminishing. At once it rendered superfluous 
all considei-ations and all more or less fantastical explanations, replac- 
ing them by simple fact. It opened the way for further investiga- 
tions, giving nearly certainty of a future discovery of analogous proc- 
esses. Whether it is the type of the production of species in nature 
or oidy one of a more or less large group of types can not j^et be 
decided, but this is of no imjwrtance in the present state of the sub- 
ject. The fact is that it has become possible to see species originate, 
and that this origin is sudden and obeys distinct laws. 

The species which yielded these important results is an American 
plant. It is a native of the United States, and nearly allied to some 
of the most common and most beautiful among the wild flowering 
plants of this country. It is an evening primrose, and by a strange 
but fortunate coincidence bears the name of the great French founder 
of the theory of evolution. It is called '' Lamarck's evening primrose," 
and produces crowns of large and bright yellow flowers, which have 
even secured it a place among our beloved garden plants. 

The most interesting result which the observation and culture of 
this plant haA'e brought to light is a fact which is in direct opposition 
to the current belief. Ordinarily it is assumed that new species arise 
by a series of changes, in which all the individuals of a locality are 
equally concerned. The whole group is supposed to be modified in a 
distinct direction by the agency of the environmental forces. All 
individuals from time to time intercross, and are thereby assumed to 



396 THE EVIDENCE OF EVOLUTION. 

keep equal pace in the line of modification, no single one being 
allowed to go distinctly ahead of the others. The whole family 
gradually changes, and the consequence would be that the old form 
disappears in the same degree as the new makes its appearance. 

This easy and plausible conception, however, is plainly contra- 
dicted by the new facts. There is neither a gradual modification nor 
a common change of all the individuals. On the contrary, the main 
group remains wholly unali'ected by the production of new species. 
After eighteen years it is absolutely the same as at the beginning, and 
even the same as is found elscA^here in localities where no mutability 
has been observed. It neither disappears nor dies out, nor is it ever 
diminished or changed in the slightest degree. 

Moreover, according to the current conception, a changing species 
would commonly be modified into only one other form, or at best 
become split into two different types, separated from one another by 
flowering at different seasons or by some other evident means of 
isolation. My evening primrose, however, produces in the same 
locality, and at the same time, from the same group of plants, quite 
a number of new forms, diverging from their prototype in different 
directions. 

Thence we must conclude that new species are produced sideways 
by other forms, and that this change only affects the product, and 
not the producer. The same original form can in this way give birth 
to numerous others, and this single fact at once gives an exjjlanation 
of all those cases in which species comprise numbers of subspecies, or 
genera large series of nearly allied forms. Numerous other distinct 
features of our prevailing classification may find on the same ground 
an easy and quite natural explanation. 

To my mind, however, the real significance of the new facts is not 
to be found in the substitution of a new conception for the now pre- 
vailing ideas; it lies in the new w^ays which it opens for scientific 
research. The origin of species is no longer to be considered as 
something beyond our experience. It reaches within the limits of 
direct observation and experiment. Its onl}'' real difficulty is the 
rarity of its occurrence ; but this, of course, may be overcome by per- 
severing research. Mutability is manifestly an exceptional state of 
things if compared Avith the ordinary constancy. But it must occur 
in nature here and there, and probably even in our immediate vicinity. 
It has only to be sought for, and as soon as this is done on a suffi- 
ciently large scale the study of the origin of species will become an 
experimental science. 

New lines of work and new prospects will then be opened, and the 
application of new discoveries and new laws on forage crops and 
industrial plants Avill largely reward the patience and perseverance 
required by the present initial scientific studies. 



THE EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIES." 



By O. F. Cook. 



The theory that species came into existence as results of separate 
creative acts has given phice to the belief that the diversity of organic 
nature has been attained by gradual transformation, but the uncon- 
scious influence of the older view remains very strong. Even scien- 
tific students of evolution still take it for granted that there should 
be species, and hope to solve the problem of evolution by finding 
special conditions or agencies which can make new species out of old 
ones. 

Science is by no means exempt from the very human tendency to 
place a fictitious value upon rare and exceptional phenomena, and to 
overlook the significance of familiar facts. Between Linnseus and 
Darwin a century of careful descriptive study of plants and animals 
intervened before the everyday incident of variation was appreciated, 
and it came to be perceived that species might arise through progres- 
sive change, or evolution. Having once assumed, however, that evo- 
lution could explain the origin of species, we have taken to seeking 
for evolutionary causes in the out-of-the-way places of biology, for- 
getting that the very existence and constitution of species affords 
evidence of the most fundamental character regarding the nature of 
the evolutionary process. 

Why are organisms grouped into species, instead of manifesting 
unlimited and indefinite diversity? After reviewing the multiplicity 
of organic types and the innumerable modifications possible for each, 
it seems superfluous to doubt that the possibilities of diversity are 
endless. And yet all higher organisms are associated in species, and 
such associations have existed, a])parently, throughout the biological 
history of the earth. Eacli investigator in turn has persevered in the 
hope that in learning the origin of species he would unravel the secret 

a Consists principally of a revision and combination of two articles, " Evolu- 
tion Not tbo Origin of Species" (Popular Science Monthly, Marcb, 1904) and 
•"Natural Selection in Kinetic Evolution" (Science, April 1, 1904). 

397 



398 THE EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIES. 

of evolution, but from everv mechanical or environmental stan(l})oint 
species remain as mysterious as ever. 

A species is a species, not through the workings of any hidden cause 
of evolution, hut because the component individuals breed together, 
and thus remain in interconnected, coherent whole. This is the 
familiar and obvious fact which has escaped the appreciation of spe- 
cialists. The individuals of a species are alike, not because of any 
fixed law or mechanism of heredity, but because they are traveling- 
together along the evolutionary pathway. ^ATien a species encounters 
an environmental obstacle, and is divided into two groups, the parts 
can then evolve separately and become difterent. Evolution is not 
shown in the becoming separate, but in the becoming different, and 
the i^rocess of gradual change would haA'e continued if the original 
group had not been subdivided. 

The policy of taking species for granted has been carried by some 
to the point of declaring that no satisfactory definition of species 
could be made, but this was only because they were attempting to 
combine two incongruous ideas, and failed to distinguish the species 
as the evolutionary unit of interbreeding individuals from the pre- 
evolutionary species of analytical classification, " founded on identity 
of form and structure." In nature, however, there is no identity of 
form and structure, and no such species as those into which the nar- 
rowly formal systematist subdivides his genera. 

It is not possible to make a definition which will enable us to 
recognize species without studying them ; l)ut, on the other hand, it is 
entirely practicable to tell what species are, or hoAv they are consti- 
tuted. A species is nothing more nor less than a connected or co- 
herent group of interbreeding organisms. Interbreeding may enable 
them to maintain a general similarity throughout the specific series, 
or there may be sexual and other diversification which subdivides 
the species into two or more distinct sexes or castes without inter- 
mediates. 

Adherence to the notion that species means " identity of form and 
structure " brings hopeless confusion of evolutionary ideas. The 
fact that characters which have arisen among inbred domesticated 
plants and animals disappear in crosses Avith the prepotent wild 
stock has l)een taken to prove " the swamping effects of intercross- 
ing " in general. The segregation of new variations is now com- 
monly held to be essential for their preservation, in complete disre- 
gard of the fact that the inbreeding unavoidable in such segregation 
Avould Aveaken the organism and give it a fatal handica[) in the strug- 
gle for existence. The original assumption of this tlieory is as 
erroneous as the final deduction. Instead of having, or tending to 
haA'e, " identity of form and structure," it is a physiological advan- 



THE EVOLUTIONARY STGNTFICANCE OF SPECIES. 309 

(aac for the incniluM-s of the species to become more and more diverse, 
not in order to snlxlivide into more mnnerons species, but because 
diversity of descent increases the vij^or of the individual organisms 
of which the species is composed. 

Sexual and other diversification inside the species has continued to 
become more and more accentuated in Inmdreds of indei)endent 
oroups of plants and animals, and is everywhere recognized as a 
mark of greater organic perfection. Professor Weismann held that 
under constant external influences variation would not occur;" but 
ihe practical fact is that in the same species, and imder the same 
<>eueral environments, variations not only occur, but are preserved, 
acciunulated. and integrated into sexual differences, not by isolating 
a part of the species from the rest, but under iconditions of free and 
continuous interbreeding. The differences between the sexes are 
i-onnnonly greater than those which separate the species and genera, 
or even than those w'hich characterize the families and orders, show- 
ing most conclusively that such differences can arise and become 
established, even inside the species, and quite without segregation. 
But instead of having been appreciated as the most important 
agency and the most significant illustration of evolution, sex and 
symbasic interbreeding have continued to be regarded as obstacles, 
because they interfere with the fancied necessity of segregation. 

Evolutionists, too intent on a practical explanation of the diversity 
of species, magnified the idea that organisms become adapted to 
environment, and disregarded the more fundamental fact that spe- 
cies are not by nature stationary, but have an independent motion of 
their own. This oversight brought us the impossible task of explain- 
ing how external conditions produce evolutionary changes, and 
prevented the perception that adaptations are due to external causes 
only as environment may influence the direction of the normal and 
necessary movement of the species. 

That evolution is thus an active, universal, and truly physiological 
process is not considered in current theories, largely because thought 
and language have continued to follow^ the bias of the original Dar- 
winian controversy in seeking in evolution an explanation of the 
origin of species, and in expecting, conversely, that an explanation of 
the origin of species would also explain evolution. Such a history 
greatly increases the difficulty of presenting this alternative view, that 
the multiplication of species is in no proper sense a result of evolution, 
but is due to entirely distinct causes more often antagonistic than 
favorable to evolutionary progress. 

a Weismaun, A., 189.3, The Germ riasni, 403. 



400 THE EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIES. 

EVOLUTION VERSUS TAXONOMY. 

The early evolutionists were all systematists deeply impressed by 
the vast complexity of organic nature, a sentiment which we may 
still indulge, since two centuries of labor have but made a beginning 
in the task of describing and assigning names to the millions of groups 
of organisms. Nevertheless, it is to be regretted that biological evolu- 
tion was Adewed and expounded so exclusively from the standpoint of 
the taxonomi:-t. His interests are greatly at variance with tliose of 
the evolutionist, and the confusion of the two distinct lines of investi- 
gation has done much to perpetuate the erroneous identification of 
the origin of species with the process of evolution. 

The evolution best appreciated by the taxonomist is one which pro- 
duces species separable by definite and easily definable characters. 
He finds such species on islands and in other circumscribed regions, 
and infers that isolation is an important evolutionary factor, failing 
to perceive that the " constancy " of insular species is merely a uni- 
formity made possible by the limited area of distribution, and hence 
usually absent in species of more extensive range. 

The systematist is prone to believe that there has been more evolu- 
tion in a genus of ten readily definable species than in another occupy- 
ing the same geographical region, but consisting of only one species. 
For the evolutionist, however, the segregation of the numerous species 
means that the conditions are less uniformly favorable for the sub- 
divided genus than for the other. Among fossil organisms, also, the 
more generalized the types the wider was the distribution, the separa- 
tion of local genera and species following with less favorable circum- 
stances or greater competition. Segregation multiplies species by 
separating groups of organic individuals, just as the ocean might 
form many islands from a partially submerged continent. Species 
are biological islands, but we do not go further in biology than in 
geography by the discovery that islands must be isolated. Isolation 
permits evolutionary progress to be made on separate lines, until the 
difi^erences become of diagnostic utility to the s^'stematist ; but that 
isolation is responsible for the changes which bring about the diver- 
gence of characters is a deduction no more logical than that the diifer- 
ences of islands are due to the waters Avhich separate them. 

Too narrow zeal in the descriptive task has led many systematists 
to act on the assumption that the same amount of difierence should 
everywhere receive the same taxonomic recognition, a method some- 
times defended on the ground that all variations of form or structure 
indicate incipient species budding out from the parent stock, and sure 
to become separate groups like other now segregated types, a supposi- 
tion quite unsupported by evidence. Far more rational and more 
secure would be the progress of systematic biology if recognition a« 



THE EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIES. 401 

species were limited to groups of individuals separate in nature, 
regard being given to the completeness of segregation rather than to 
the amount of diti'erence. 

It is to be admitted, of course, that when specimens from a new 
locality offer tangible differences from any previously known, the 
working systematist nuist describe and name them as reprsenting 
new species. To crowd them into an old species by " emending the 
description," or by calling them a " variety," is to guess at an integra- 
tion in advance of knowledge; while to refuse to unite "species," 
which have been shown to belong to a continuous series in nature, is 
to prefer technical fiction to biological reality. A coherent group of 
interbreeding individuals is the unit of evolutionary biology to which 
the term species finds its most proper application. The tendency of 
some systematists to refer also to intergrading unsegregated subdivi- 
sions of such groups as " species," shows how easily conventional 
taxonomic methods may obscure evolutionary distinctions. 

CRITERIA OF SPECIFIC DISTINCTNESS. 

Species differ, of course, in the variability of their characters, but, 
other things being equal, the uniformity of the individuals of a 
species might be expressed by a ratio between the range and the facil- 
ities for interbreeding. A widespread species of sedentary animals 
or plants will become locally diversified; more frequent intercom- 
jnunication permits more uniform progress. A single species may 
have as great a variety of characters as a dozen related groups which 
have been segregated. Two species may be quite distinct and yet 
differ much less than the connected extremes of another. That a 
species differs in different parts of its range does not necessarily mean 
that a subdivision will take place; it means merely that characters 
are originating more rapidly than they spread over the whole species. 
The integrity of a species is not destroyed by " inconstancy " of char- 
acters, but because geographical or other barriers make a gap in the 
series. 

The failure of the extremes of a widely distributed species to breed 
when brought together does not prove the attainment of specific dis- 
tinctness nor the approach of it, since internal diversity does not 
weaken the species, but is an evolutionary advantage, and both ex- 
tremes may continue to cross freely with the connecting forms which 
constitute the bulk of the species. Neither does the power to form 
fertile hybrids prove that two species occupying distinct ranges are 
one. Faith in such criteria is simply a remnant of the preevolution- 
ary theory of the separate creation of species. The only w^ay to ascer- 
tain that two groups of organisms are separate species is to find the 
SM 1904 26 



402 THE EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIES. 

gap betAvecn them. Whether they will breed together or not, and 
whether the hybrids are fertile and vigorous, or weak, sterile, and 
aberrant, may indicate the period and degree of divergence of the 
types crossed, but affords absolutely no evidence as to Avhether the 
series to which they belong in nature are continuous or interrupted. 
Specific distinctness is a question much more geographical than evo- 
lutionary. Evolution continues whether the species is divided or not; 
the divergence of the parts is rendered possible by the cessation of the 
interbreeding, which Avould otherwise maintain the coherence and 
relative uniformity of the undivided group. 

SEGREGATION AND VITAL MOTION. 

The systematist '' separates " species because they are " different," 
but the evolutionary significance of species does not appear from 
formal descriptions of these biological islands; it lies in the fact that 
isolated groups of organic individuals universally acquire diagnostic 
differences. Isoation has furnished millions of these tests of the 
universality of biological motion, but it does not cause the motion. 
Evolution is independent of isolation, and Avithout it has often 
brought about in the same species great diversity of sexes, castes, 
dimorj^hic and alternating generations of many species of plants and 
animals. Without evolutionary progress there Avould have been no 
species as Ave now knoAv them, but the causes of the segregation of 
species are not causes of evolution; segregation merely permits this 
universal tendency to become more manifest. If it should be found 
that evolutionary diA'ergences sometimes assist natural selection or 
physical barriers in the Avork of subdividing species, this Avould 
mean that evolution sometimes results in segregation, not that segre- 
gation causes CA^olution. 

EA'olution is a process of change in species; it is the journey of 
Avhich indiA'idual variations are steps. Evolution changes the char- 
acters of species, but it does not originate species; it makes species 
different Avhen segregation affords the opportunity. 

Natural selection may assist geographical and other influences 
tending to the division of species, but it is not on that account a cause 
of evolution ; it represents the determining aspect of the environ- 
ment — the factors Avhich influence the direction of the Aatal motion, 
but not those Avhich induce the motion. Natural selection may explain 
differences between tAvo species, but not the becoming different. It 
is an external incident or influence and not an active principle or 
agency of organic evolution. Adaptation is possible because there 
is a A''ital motion which can be deflected, not because the euA^ironment 
changes the characters of species. The river of evolution flows 
through the land of environment; the conformation of the A'alley 



THE EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIES. 403 

determines the course of the stream, ])iit the water descends by its 
own gravity. 

In the course of its progress the species explores the adjacent ter- 
ritory and follows the line of least resistance to the variations it is 
able to put forth. Changes are necessary to maintain the vitality of 
the species and also to keep it abreast of its environmental oppor- 
tunities, and if no adaptive movement can be made it is still unable 
to remain stationary, but continues to change in characters indiffer- 
ent to the environment, or even actually detrimental. 

The species encounters obstacles and subdivides because it is in 
motion; the diversity of form arises because vai-iations can no longer 
spread freely among the individuals of the species, not because the 
environment introduces new characters. 

That species occupy definite regions of distribution has been taken 
by some to mean that the individuals are similar because they are 
molded by similar influences, but that this inference is wrong is 
shown both by the wide diversity of conditions under which some 
species exist, and by the even wider diversitj'^ of form and structure 
often found among the members of the same species, in the same en- 
vironment. Similarity of conditions may permit plants and animals 
of different origins to develop similar variations, and to share, 
finally, the same adaptive characters, but identical conditions do not 
put an end to individual variations, nor to evolutionary progress.* 

THE INFLUENCE OF SELECTION. 

In denying that selection has any power to initiate or actuate 
developmental changes there is no intention to imply that it has not 
lirofoundly influenced the course of evolution in many groups. In- 
deed, it may be claimed that the kinetic theory ^ afforded the first 
concrete explanation of the workings of natural selection. Vital 
motion not only makes selective influence possible, but it meets the 
ancient and hitherto fatal objection to the doctrine of adaptation, 
since it shows how characters may originate and develop to the point 
of utility or harmfulness, where adaptive selection can take effect. 

That there are species, varieties, mutations, or hybrids wdiich differ 
in one, two, or three characters, as commonly asserted in discussions 
of Mendel's laws, is quite unAvarranted by facts. The mention of a 
single peculiar character may suffice to designate a species or variety 
for taxonomic purposes, but in evolutionary studies it is careless to 

""Even sugar beets, the oldest 'selected' agricultural plants, are far from 
having freed themselves from the necessity of continuous improvement. With- 
out this the.v would not remain constant, but would retrograde with great 
rapidity." DeVries, H., 1905, Species and Varieties, 109. 
• b Cook, O. F., 1901. A. Kinetic Theory of Evolution, Science, N. S., 13 : 969. 



404 THE EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIES. 

forget that the diversity is general and multifarious, like that of 
individual apfjle trees or men. Evolution is a continuous sunuiiar}^ 
or integration of this individual diversity, and is not a simple process, 
but highly multiplex, as much so, indeed, as the lines of descent in 
which the life of the species goes forward. A composite general 
direction is maintained by the species because the nudtitudinous 
strands of individual descent are bound together by interbreeding. 
The variations take place in particular threads, but evolution signifies 
rather the progressive change of the whole organic network. 

The evolution of a new type means changes in many directions and 
of many kinds in the germ cells and in the various tissues and organs, 
as Avell as in the external form of the complex cell colony which we 
are accustomed to look upon as a single individual. 

Each cell, tissue, organ, and feature is undergoing evolution, and 
for nornuil and permanent jjrogress these manifold develojiments 
must keep together. ^Vhen single lines or slender strands of descent 
are separated from the main network the congruence of type is lost. 
The normal variation and individual diversity of the species having 
been eliminated, the evolutionary coordination of cells, organs, and 
functions breaks down, and abrupt changes or aberrations of heredity 
appear. These degenerative mutations may not differ in their essen- 
tial nature from normal variations, but the conditions of their appear- 
ance are abnormal, and the results often disastrous." Mutations, like 
hybrids, are sometimes completely sterile, and they may have at the 
same time an increased vegetative vigor. The vegetative vigor of 
many mutative varieties of domesticated plants has doubtless delayed 
the recognition of their abnormal evolutionary status, though the 
abnormality of infertile hybrids has long been appreciated. It is 
paradoxical, indeed, that the increased vigor which accompanies nor- 
mal variations and crosses should also attend degenerative changes, 
but there is room for this apj)arent contradiction in so complex and 
many-sided a process as evolution. 

A domestic variety may be " improved " by the further increase of 
the one or two characters or qualities which render it valuabh\ but a 
new specific or generic type is the compound or resultant of many 
variations in man}^ characters. By close selection, which restricts 
evolutionary progress to a narrow line of descent,. a "single charac- 
ter " may push out farther in a decade than the natural nudtiplex 
evolution Avould carry it in a century or a millennium, but such a spe- 
cialization weakens and unbalances the f)rganisms, and is a process of 
degeneration rather than a constructive evolution. Selective inl)reed- 
ing and other forms of isolation accentuate single characters, but the 

a See Cook, O. F., 1904. The Vegetative Vigor of Hybrids and Mutations. 
Proe. Biological Society of Washington, 17 : 83. 



THE EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIES. 405 

interbreeding of normally <liverso indivitlanls (symbasis) weaves 
now typos out ol' tlio vni"iations of many linos of descent. 

All oriranisms aro subjoct to sc^loctivo intliionce in the sense that 
variations aro rojoctod with a ])romptness proportional to their harni- 
fulnoss in the oivcn (Mnironmont. but ironorally this leaves a very 
wide latitude of ])ossiblo (■han<i-os in which selection does not interfere. 
The instances ai'o I'olativoly rai'o in which existence becomes acutely 
do|)ondont ujion the development of some one characteristic or quality, 
and such nai'row select ioii does not strengthen the type, but insures 
and hastens its extinction." 

The neglect of this distinction vitiates much evolutionary literature, 
both that which treats selection as an actuating '"force'' and that 
which rejects selection for "■ discontinuous variation " or '' the nnita- 
tion theory."' It is true that many variations of inl)red domesticated 
])lants and animals are very abruptly discontinuous, and that such 
changes are not caused by selection, but these facts in no way mili- 
tate against others equally obvious, that the natural evolution of 
new types is a relativel}^ slow and gradual process, and that selection 
influences the direction of this continuous vital motion. The older 
selective hypothesis was only half erroneous. Selection does not set 
stationary organisms in motion, but it often guides s^jontaneous 
change. It does not explain evolution or vital motion in general, l)ut 
it does explain adaptation, or motion in some particular direction, as 
when one species differs from its relatives in special characters which 
enable it to exist in a special environment. That all adaptations are 
mere coincidences is as improbable as that all characters represent 
useful adaptations. 

Selection is not, as many " Darwinians '' have maintained, the true, 
efficient, cause of evolution. The vital motion of species proceeds 
whether selection is operative or not. Species do not acquire char- 
acters from the environment, but merely in accordance with it. At 
any point in the evolutionary journey selection may determine 
whether certain characters shall be acquired or not. It is an obstacle 
in the environmental road over which the species would travel, instead 
of being the source of power of the organic automobile. Selection 
prevents motion in one direct itm, but permits advance in another. It 
explains w'hy a particular character becomes accentuated in a par- 
ticular species, but is no more a cause of the developmental progress 
of the sj^ecies than the turns of the road are the motive power of the 
vehicle. 

The hypothesis of selection as the active principle or causal agency 
of evolution became illogical and useless as soon as the inheritance of 
acquired characters was discredited. The first idea without the 



oO. F. Cook, 1903, "Stages of Vital Motion," Popular Science Monthly, G.'i : 10. 



406 THE EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIES. 

second does not account for adaptations. The '' selection " of Nageli, 
Weisniann, and other believers in a " determining principle " or 
''hereditary mechanism" of evolution is a verj^ weak substitute for 
the original Darwinian idea, since it is able to eliminate only the 
hopelessly unfit, but is quite without means of influencing the 
survivors. 

Segregation enables species to attain differential characters, and 
selection assists their accommodation to environment, but both these 
possibilities rest on the more fundamental fact that organic evolution 
goes forward Avithout external causation in groups of diverse, inter- 
breeding individuals. If a species stood still selection could effect 
nothing except its partial extinction. In the recognition of a con- 
tinuous and universal evolutionary motion the kinetic theory supplies 
the long-sought explanation of selective influence. Selection ceases 
to be a mysterious evolutionary cause, but retains a practical and 
easily comprehensible evolutionary function. 

THE SPECIES A PROTOPLASMIC NETWORK. 

The traditional illustration of organic descent by a tree with ever- 
dividing branches is entirely misleading as a suggestion of the nature 
of evolutionary processes, because individuals do not follow each 
other in simple series. Successive generations are connected by end- 
less intergraf tings of the lines of descent. A species may be treated 
systematically or statistically as an aggregation of individuals, and 
may be described by an averaging of the characters of these, but from 
an evolutionary point of view it does not exist as a species because of 
the possession of a certain complex of characters, but because the com- 
ponent individuals breed together; through this alone is the integrity 
or coherence of the species maintained. For evolutionary purposes 
we may think of the same species existing thousands of years hence, 
and with any or all of its characters changed." It is not necessary 
even that the individuals of a species remain alike; in many unre- 
lated natural groups extremely diverse sexes, castes, and " forms " 
remain associated in the same species and travel together on the evo- 
lutionary journey, sharing the same environment, but without any 
tendency to become " exacth^ alike." Moreover, we know that sexual 
and other diversities inside the species are not casual or accidental, 
but normal and advantageous, facts quite overlooked in static theo- 
ries, which have viewed life from a narrowly systematic standpoint 

a Cook, O. F., 1899, Four Categories of Species, American Naturalist, 33:287. 
The "species" into wbich i);ileontolosists ;irl)itraril.v divide geoloj^ical series of 
organisms may l)e explaiiialilo i).v cvnlutioiiary i)rogr(»ss alone, l)ut tlie multipli- 
cation of the contemporaneous si)ecies of a given horizon is a different question. 



THK FA'OLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIES. 407 

and liavo ar<iuod that intorhrcoding is a hindrance to cvohilion in 
that it i)r('vonts the preservation of new characters. 

The kinetic theory, on the contrary, ascribes the fact that orofpnisnis 
are everywhere bound up into species to a property of fuiuhunental 
evohitionary importance, and interprets the multitudinous devices 
for maintaining the coherence of gi'oups of interbreeding organic in- 
dividuals and the equally general manifestations of sexual and other 
diversification inside specific lines, as due to the same reciuirement of 
protoplasmatic organization, an interlacing netwH)rk of descent. 
Without cross-fertilization species would not cohere, but would split 
into numberless indejjendent, diverging lines. This takes place with 
organisms long propagated asexually, whether artificially or in na- 
ture. For example, the genus Sphagnum, which very rarely produces 
spores, oli'ers a multiplicity of varieties nowhere approached among 
mosses having normal sexual reproduction ; but, notwithstanding so 
many dilferences in minute details. Sphagnum has remained a very 
compact, unprogressive group. Cross-fertilization prevents this type 
of diversification, but it need not on that account be supposed to 
impede evolutionary progress. Evolution is not merely a progressive 
diversification; it requires also a progressive synthesis of characters 
by the interbreeding of the individual members of specific groups. 

That sexual reproduction is a substitute or improvement of multi- 
plication b}' fission is another partial and misleading view which has 
contributed much toward the concealment of the causes of evolution. 
The division of cells is the only method of organic increase; conjuga- 
tion is not multiplication, but serves as a preliminary .stimulant to 
the necessary cell division. What is groAvth, for example, among the 
filamentous alga', composed of chains of cells, is reproduction among 
the unicellular species where divided cells become separate indi- 
viduals. Only among the simplest organisms, if anywhere, is indefi- 
nite reproduction possible without the assistance of conjugation. 

The new science of cytology has made us aware that the division of 
cells is not a passive or a simple process, but is extremely active, com- 
plex, and varied. Living protoplasm is in motion, and the discovery 
that cell Avails are not hermetically closed, but are perforated by 
delicate protoplasmic strands, lends strength to the belief of some 
biologists that protoplasm circulates, not only inside the individual 
cells, but through the entire organism. Conjugation may signify 
that such a circulation extends also throughout the species. Or, to 
vary the analogy, the net-like structure of protoplasm maybe thought 
of as continuous, not only in the individual, but as binding together 
the whole species by the intercrossing of the lines of individual 
descent. As individual organisms will in different degrees endure 



408 THE EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIES. 

subdivision and are able to restore or regenerate the lost part, so 
species may survive a certain amount of segregation ; but if too small 
a grouj) of individuals be cut off, it perishes through the reproductive 
debilit}^ long recognized as inherent in inbred or narrowly segregated 
organisms. For taxonom}' the tree motion of descent was sufficient 
as a means of indicating the history and affinities of species and 
higher groups, but evolution is a process which must be studied inside 
the species, and here the diagram of relationship is not dendritic, but 
reticular. 

SYMBASIS A CAUSE OF EVOLUTION. 

If reproduction by means of cell division is reckoned as an essen- 
tial property of protoiDlasm, equally fundamental importance can 
scarcely be denied to the property called symbasis," which requires 
this interweaving of numerous lines of descent and this simultaneous 
movement of organisms in specific groups. As organic complexity 
increases there is a greater necessity for cross-breeding, as evidenced 
by the accentuation of sexual diversity and by the decline of asexual 
propagation and of the powder of regenerating lost parts. Organ- 
isms which have traveled farthest upon the evolutionary journey 
are most dependent upon symbasis. Nowhere among the higher 
animals, including many thousands of species of arthropods and 
vertebrates, is there known to be a long-continued series of nonsexual 
individuals.^ In comparison with the higher animals, plants are but 
loose and unspecialized aggregations of cells, and yet among them 
also sexual differentiation has made great progress, and in some 
orders contrivances to insure cross-fertilization are highly* developed. 

The extent to which conjugation exists among the lower groups is 
not yet determined. That it may be omitted for many generations 
of a simple organism should not be taken to mean that it is entirely 
absent or has no importance, since among the higher animals, where 

« Symbasis signifies etymological ly a moving together or in company, and 
refers to the fact that organisms exist and make normal evolutionary progress 
in groups, rather than on simple or narrow lines of succession. The word may 
be used also in a physiological sense, to indicate a normal and advantageous 
range of interl)reeding among the individuals of organic groups. It is to be 
distinguished on the one side from wide cross-l»reeding and on the other from 
nan'ow inbreeding, both of which produce inferior offspring and interfere with 
evolutionary progress. The confusion arising from the very fre^iueut use of 
interbreeding in the contrary sense of inbreeding would also compel the intro- 
duction of a new and unambiguous term. 

6 Among the bees fertilization may be omitted for a single male generation, 
and among the plant-lice for several wingless generations, but such instances are 
admittedly exceptional and si»ecialized. 



TTFK EVOT.UTTONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIES. 409 

cross-fertilization is recognized as indispensable, the growth of the 
body to maturity re(iiiires millions of cell divisions, each of which 
would mean a new generation in a unicellular species. Tlie supposed 
absence of sexual reproduction in certain parasitic and saprophytic 
groups is a confirmatory exce]ition in view of the obvious degenera- 
tion of such organisms." 

To the many speculations on the jDurpose of sex and cross-fertiliza- 
tion it can do no harm to add the conjecture that the presence of 
moderatel}' diverse qualities of protoplasm facilitates cell division. 
Some have held that the function of sex is to assist evolution by 
producing variations, and others that it neutralizes variation by 
maintaining n stable average. From the kinetic point of view it 
appears that symbasis, as represented by the phenomena of sex and 
of cross-fertilization, is not an impediment to evolution nor a device 
to cause variation, but a means of communicating it. Variations 
!il)i)ear without sex, and may even be accumulated, as by the adding of 
one bud variation to another in plants propagated by grafts or by 
cuttings, like the breadfruit, apple, and banana. Such progress is, 
hoAvever, slow and halting, and is accompanied by a decline in repro- 
ductive fertility. Symbasis not only sustains the vitality of organ- 
isms already evolved, but it is directly responsible for the upbuilding 
of the complex structure and vital economy of the higher plants and 
animals, and it builds the faster when by the differentiation of sexes 
two sets of variations can be accumulated. 

To symbasis is due also the arrangement of organisms in the 
coherent groups called " species," or what may be termed the sjjecific 
constitution of life. Conjugation is the means of symbasis, as divi- 
sion is of reproduction. Sexual and other dimorphism, and the 
numerous specializations, devices, and instincts by which cross-fer- 
tilization is secured, are aids to symbasis, just as the spore-sacs, 
ovaries, and placenta^ facilitate reproduction. The phenomena of 
leproduction and those of symbasis are combined, perhaps inextrica- 
l)ly, but all attempts at assigning them to a single cause or proj^ertj^ 
have failed. 

Cross-fertilization is connnonly misunderstood to be merely an 
accessory of reproduction, and a negative factor in evolution, because 
it is sui)posed to conduce to the permanence of the specific type by 
averaging aAvay the new characters which arise as individual varia- 
tions. There is the amplest experimental evidence that cross- 
breeding is necessary to maintain the quality and efficiency of the 

a Tender a kinetic theory the existence of sexual reproduction and cross-fertili- 
zation in many fuiisi in which these processes are still unknown may be inferred 
from tlie simple fact that the individuals are grouped into well-defined species. 



410 THE EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIES. 

individual, but static theories " have led to the belief that evolutionary 
pi-ogress re(iuires conditions unfavorable to the individuals of which 
species are composed, since under such conditions selection is most 
effective and abruj^t variations are most striking and numerous. The 
alternative kinetic theory holds that cross-fertilization, as the active 
agency of symbasis, is a positive and primary factor of evolution, 
coordinate with variation itself. Symbasis is the multiplier of the 
evolutionary equation; it brings about the distribution and com- 
bination of individual variations into the resultant vital motion of 
the species. Evolution no longer appears as an abnormal or excep- 
tional phenomenon, and it becomes clear that the conditions under 
which the species is most prosperous are also those which permit the 
most rajjid evolutionary j^rogress. 

THE PREPOTENCY OF VARIATIONS. 

The first corrollary of the law of symbasis is the prepotency of 
variations. The combination of variations not only permits the struc- 
ture of the organism to be strengthened and rendered more efficient, 
but also gives prejjotency, due to the opportunity of vital motion. 
Variant individuals being thus both vigorous and prepotent, it is easy 
to understand why diversity, and not uniformity, is the tendency of 
normally extensive species; changes are necessary and welcome, and 
the perpetuation of them does not require segregation. Numerous 
and well authenticated instances of distinctly prepotent variations 

« static theories, under which species are held to be normally stationary, may 
be subdivided into two groups, those which look upon evolutionary progress as 
gradual and as actuated or carried along by natural selection, and those which 
treat the motion as discontinuous or saltatory and due, not to selection, but 
to abrupt variation or mutation. Selective theories, again, may hold either 
that the environment causes the desirable variations or " acquired characters." 
or they may imply the motion of a somewhat constant range of variability in 
species, which are thought of as growing out farther on one side because selec- 
tion keeps them pared off on the other. Movement is thus ascribed vai'iously to 
the direct action of the environment, to selective isolation, to abrupt trans- 
formation or nmtation, or to some combination of these. 

Under Haeckel's biogenetic law evolution appears as a resultant of (I) 
palingenesis, a positive hereditary tendency to repeat the ancestral form, and 
(2) kenogenesis, a negative, disturbing, adaptive influence located in the environ- 
ment. The late Professor Hyatt summarized a similar view by characterizing 
heredity as (jcntipetal and environment as (;cntifu<jal, the one tending to make 
all individuals alike, the other causing difference and evolutionary progress. 

TIk! kinetic theory depends upon none of these supposed factors, but inter- 
prets vital motion as continuous, gradual, and self-caused, or Inherent in the 
species, though the environment is thought of as influencing the direction of 
organic change. Selective influence is neglected altogether by still other 
theories, such as that of Naegeli, in which evolution is expLiined by an internal 
" hereditary mechanism," supposed to carry the species along in a definite direc- 
tion. 



THE EVOLUTIONARY RTCNTFTrA-NOE OF SPECIES. 411 

are known, and snch Avoro taken hy Mivart and other zoolo<jfists to 
prove that species do not originate by gradual change, hut ahi-uptly 
or by " extraoi'dinarv births,"" a view quite simihir to the nioi-e recent 
theories of nnitalions," but distinctly more practical, because the 
" mutations " of plants which arc the basis of the inferences of Pro- 
fessor De Vries are not pre})otent but " recessive," presumably because 
they do not represent true genetic variations, but are symptoms of 
what may be described as an evolutionary debility, due to inbreeding. 
The disappearance of mutative characters when the new variations 
are crossed with the parent form or Avith each other is merely the 
recovery, as it were, of the health of the species when the abnormal 
condition of inbreeding has been removed, as shown so conclusively 
in Darwin's well-known experiments with pigeons, and confirmed by 
an abundance of similar facts. Though differently interpreted, 
many other facts supporting this view were collected by Darwin, who 
summarized the results of his studies of Ipomea, Digitalis, Origanum, 
Viola, Bartonia, Canna, and the common cabbage and pea, as follows: 

The luost iiuitortant conclusion at which I have arrived is that the mere act 
of crossing hy itself docs no good. The good depends on the individuals which 
;ire crossed differing slightly in constitution, owing to their progenitors having 
been subjected during several generations to slightly different conditions, or to 
what we call in our ignorance " spontaneous variations." & 

Differences between the plants of different habitats mean also dif- 
ferent lines of descent and attendant variations, and the beneficial re- 
sults of bringing these together may be explained by reference to 
symbasis rather than to the " slightly different conditions." 

While it may not be insisted that species, as described and named 
by systematists, are never originated by " extraordinary births " or 
from '' mutations," both suppositions are obviously improbable as gen- 
eral explanations. Mutations are seldom fitted to survive because 
they are less vigorous and less fertile than the parent type, so that 
they must be segregated at once in order to l)e preserved. And even 
prepotent variations have no necessary connection with the origina- 
tion of species, since however rapidly the characters of a species 
might change, it would still be the same species until a subdivision 
had taken place. The more a species evolves the more different from 
its relatives it becomes, and the more satisfactory for the purposes of 

« Mr. William H. Maxon, of the U. S. National Museum, calls niy attention to a 
very early announcement of the mutation theory. 

"The truth is that species, and i)erhai)s gener:\ also, are forming in organized 
beings by gi-adual deviations of shapes, forms, and organs, taking place in the 
lapse <tf time. There is a tendency to deviations and nnitations through plants 
and animals by gradual steps at remote irregular jteriods." lia(1nes(|ue. IS.'i2. 
Quoted in Journal of Botany, .30::?10. 

''Darwin, The Effects of Cross and Self Fertilization in the Vegetable King- 
dom, p. 27. New York, 1895. 



412 THE EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIES. 

systematic study, but this proo^ressive transformation of the " type " 
carries with it no necessity for subdivision, nor any indication that 
evolution is concerned with the origination of species. 

SUMMARY. 

Evohitionary study and thought have been hindered by the con- 
fusion of two unrehited l)iological phenomena, (1) evohitionary 
progress or vital motion, and (2) the origination or multiplication of 
species. The " origin " of a species is not more evolutionary than 
any other stage in its history. The causes of the subdivision of spe- 
cies are not causes of vital motion : the two processes are quite dis- 
tinct. The separation of two species is not a focus of the evolutionary 
problem ; it is a mere incident of developmental history. 

kSegregation is the j^rinciple or active cause of the multiplication 
of species, but the nature and causes of evolutionary progress are not 
to be ascertained by discovering that species originate by subdivision. 
Vital motion is continuous, and is neither actuated nor interrupted 
by the segregation which multiplies species. 

Natural selection may assist in the segregation of species, but it is 
not a factor in evolutionary progress except as it influences the direc- 
tion of vital motion. Specific groups become diverse when the com- 
])onent individuals no longer share their variations through symbasic 
interbreeding; not because new characters are induced by external 
influences. Evolutionary divergence may take place under identical 
conditions, and in characters whicli have no relation to the environ- 
ment and no value to the organism except to permit the necessary 
vital motion. 

A stationary heredity or the continued repetition of an identical 
structural type exists nowhere in nature; variation is an inherent 
evolutionary property. Segregation is not necessary for the preser- 
vation of variations; genetic variations are prepotent and are more 
rapidly propagated by crossing with the parent form. 

A second evolutionary propert}^ of organisnts is symbasis, which 
has built up the complex structure of the higher animals and plants 
by combining individuals into the interbreeding groups called species. 
The evolutionar}^ species is not a complex of characters or a mere 
aggregation of similar ^Dlants or animals; it is a protoplasmic net- 
work held together by the interbreeding of the component individuals. 
Symbasis accelerates vital motion, but hinders the multiplication of 
species. 

Species and evolution are different aspects of the same fact; evo- 
lution goes forward within specific lines as a manifestation of the 
same property which necessitates the existence of species; variation 
and cross-fertilization are not antagonistic phenomena, but are two 
phases of the same creative process. 



SOME BIRD LIFE TN BRITISH PAPUA." 



Bv R. A. Vivian. 



Wliat British Pai)iia lacks in hi^^ <raine it coutrives to fill with 
fowls of the air, which, though varied and numerous, do not exist 
in that enormous quantity one would be led to expect of a fertile 
country lying only a few hundred miles south of the equator. 

No classification of a technical nature, but a brief description of 
the different species and their habits, Avhere known, being the object 
of this paper, further remarks will be unnecessary in introducing 
to the reader the typical birds of Papua, or New Guinea, viz, the 
birds of paradise, principally Paradisca raggiana. Our Teutonic 
neighbors evidently admire the birds so much that they have given 
them the premier position by striking local coinage on the obverse 
side with a somewhat exaggerated design of the greater bird of 
paradise {F. ajmda). 

The exquisite plumage of these birds having been already treated 
to a presumably microscopic survey, it is scarcely necessary to dwell 
further in that respect, but rather on their apparent desire to be 
noisy. Their rapidly ascending, shrill " caw, caw, caw," repeated, 
penetrating the ordinary stillness of the forest, being akin to a 
clarion call, while their prancing on a tree limb, which the natives 
introduce and imitate in their dances, is very ludicrous. Moulting 
seems to take place about August, which is near the end of the dry 
(or southwest) season. The noise of the rapids in large rivers and 
creeks appears to attract them, as they congregate there chiefly. 

The writer is not aware whether it is widely known among orni- 
thologists that a blue-plumaged bird of paradise exists in Papua.'' 
Neither can he recollect meeting anyone who has seen the particular 
species in the flesh. The assuni})tion is based on seeing tail feathers 
of the Opi tribe. The latter could not be induced to part with the 

« Reprinted, by perraissiou, from The Emu. Melbourne, October, 1904. 

6 I have seen in the national museum, Melbourne, a skin which is named /'. 
I'udolphi. (This species is recorded in Wallace's list of the Birds of Paradise 
published in The Malay Archipelago, 1890 edition. The habitat is there given 
as southeast Guinea. — Editors of The Emu.) 

413 



414 SOME BIRD LIFE IN BRITISH PAPUA. 

feathers of a sky-blue tint of a bird of paradise in the headdress of a 
chief for an ample consideration. Where and when they had been 
obtained the natives knew not, beyond pointing vaguely toAvard the 
mountains far inland. The local name, " damba," as for a raggiana, 
was also given. 

The enormous goura pigeons {Goxira coronata) are glorious crea- 
tures. The noble crests of mottled and slate-colored hues give the 
birds an almost commanding appearance. A peculiarity about these 
birds is that only in the River Musa district (latitude 9° to 10° south) 
are the}' to be found in considerable nmnbers. AVhether a special 
kind of fruit tree only exists in the locality would be interesting to 
know, as otherwise that particular part of the mainland scarcely 
differs in any respect from other portions of the country east of 
longitude 148°. It is well known, of course, that a different variety 
of bird inhabits the Fly River districts {G. d'olhertis). 

Pigeons of lesser size, viz, the blue, Avhite, black, and Avhite Torres 
Strait, and the white necklaced varieties, mostly inhabit the man- 
grove trees on the coast in flocks, and toward sunset can be eaily 
shot, flying Avith alarmed cries in circles above their roosting jjlace 
and returning in a few minutes wdthin the zone of the sportsman's 
deadly gun fire. In the islands in the southeastern portion of the 
possession the beautiful blue-green bronze pigeon, Avith Avhite tail 
jtnd long neck feathers (" nicobar ""), and a species Avith a remarkable 
fleshy protuberance at the base of the upper mandible, make their 
home in the thick scrub. 

The A'arieties of doA^es are numerous, among Avhich might be men- 
tioned a A'ery pretty particolored one Avith green, Avhite, and yelloAV 
on its body and a patch of magenta above the beak, found on the Con- 
flict Group. Also the almost tame green and brown species of the 
Lachlan Islands. 

At all times of the day and night cassoAvaries can be heard uttering 
their peculiar plaintive cry as they Avander through the dense forest. 
They are very hard to approach, and only on one occasion was the 
Avriter permitted to see a Avild one, and that Avas through the effect 
of a lucky shot by a recruit in the armed constabulary. So far as it 
is remembered, the bird Avas of the common type peculiar to the 
country, and stood about 5 feet in height. A one-time planter in 
Milne Bay once kept a pair of these birds and trained them to per- 
form the duties of Avatcli dogs. As Avould be expected, black and also 
Avhite (Triton) cockatoos [Cacatna ducorfsi) ; red, green, and blue 
parrots; rifle birds {C rasped ophora magvif^ca) , and scarlet-breasted 
green parrakeets are A^ery numerous, and are to be found in flocks 
Avhcre cocoanut, breadfruit, banana, Avild cherry, and jilum trees are 
in bearing. Plait-billed hornl)ills (Rhytidoceros undulatvs), in par- 
ticular, devour these fruits greedily, and traA'el long distances from 



SOME BIRD LIFE IN BRITISH PAPUA. 415 

thcMi- nests to satisfy their wants, niakino; a start from home regularly 
at daybreak and returnin<j: at sunset. The male usually possesses a 
really fine head of <2:olden feathers, whieh extend from the base of 
the bill quite 4 inehes down the neclc. The hen birds are all black, 
with the exception, as with the nudes, of a few white feathers on the 
under j)art of the win<;. Corrugations to the number of have been 
seen on the beak. AVhat ilo these indicate? The rustling imise 
these birds nudve when on the wing is of a weird character, and, 
together with the hoarse note they produce, suggests to the imagina- 
tive the approach of something ill-omened. They fly in couples, at 
an estimated si)eed of 15 to 20 nules an hour in calm weather. 

On a sn)all island in the China Straits our boating party on one 
occasion disturbed a huge pelican {Pelicanus consjncillatus) that was 
evidently seeking food on the shore. Preparing to shoot it, we were 
discomfited by seeing it take a few bounds and wdth an a])parent 
effort rise on the wing, and, lazily sweeping in gradually increasing 
circles, ascend until it was a mere speck in the sky. 

The musical note of the magpie is heard occasionaHy in Papua. 
There is no mistaking its carol. The bird may possibly prove a new 
variety. Everywdiere obi paradise crows {Lycocorax ohiensi) in 
moderate numbers split the air with their hoarse cries and plunder 
banana plantations, and are especially fond of the paw-paw fruit. 

Snipe {GoUhiaf/o australis) have been shot on the northeast coast, 
where in January they are found when migrating, though from 
whence, and whither bound, it is hard to say. Wild duck, too. are 
plentiful in the same locality. On the south coast and in the Gulf 
district small duck with a broad patch of Avhite on the wing, and a 
variety about the size of teal have been obtained. 

Vide extract of an expedition up the Morehead River, western divi- 
sion, several years ago: 

There was a great variety of bird life, among whlr-h there were observed the 
Mhite ibis and great heron, shags, enormous goshawks {Erytlirotrinrcliis dorur), 
wild geese and ducks, most beautiful long-tailed green and scarlet parrakeets, 
tiny jeweled kingfishers ((Uij.r solitaria) , and a little dark chocolate-colored 
velvety bird that lived in the reeds (probably Meffulurus alhoscapidatiis), and 
quantities of pigeons, cockatoos, and parrots. 

The l)lack-feathered scrub hen. or brush turkey {T. johiensos), is 
far from being a rowdy bird, and for its modesty in that respect 
rarely fills the sportsman's bag. A sudden splutter of wings and a 
dark object flying at a moderate rate toward where the scrub is thick- 
est complete the disgust of the man with the gun. One receives some 
compensation, however, by being able to raid rather easily the ground 
nests of these birds for eggs. The nest, or rather natural incubator, 
is usually at the base of a large tree trunk, where the hen lays her 
eggs and then covers them over with a huge but light mound of dry 



416 



SOME BIRD LIFE IN BRITISH PAPUA. 



leaves 2 to 5 feet deep and quite 12 feet in diameter. The heat of 
this rubbish does the rest, and the young find no difficulty in scram- 
bling out into dajdight in due course. The egg is of a light pink 
color, and is about the size of a domesticated turke^^'s. Nests have 
been discovered at a height of 2,500 feet above sea level. 

On a Government banana plantation, and on large streams, the 
writer often perceived hosts of swifts {CoUocalia terroifrcmcica) 
appear an hour before sunset, darting rapidly hither and thither, as if 
feeding on minute insects of the air. This generally occurred during 
the wet season, November to February. 

It was from the same point — Cape Nelson — that a coming ''blow " 
from the southward was always heralded some hours before by the 
appearance of a few frigate birds {Fregata aquila), which hovered 
in the locality while the wind lasted, and as like mysteriously dis- 
appeared. It would be more 
appropriate to call them 
" prophet birds." During a 
gale they meet the fierce 
gusts with seeming equanim- 
ity, neither wing moving; 
but Avith bodies rigid and 
heads to windward they re- 
main almost stationary, ex- 
cept occasionally a slightly 
^,Mfi •« — ««* perceptible swaying and mo- 
memtarily opening and clos- 
ing of the tail feathers — a 
steadying agency probably, 
besides an aid of ascent — of 
which a few remarks will be 
added later. Then with a lightning turn they gracefully sweep at a 
downward angle Avith fearful velocity for any given distance with the 
wind, and then with the most consummate ease bring up " all stand- 
ing," poised as before, the wings meantime remaining stiff, but 
scarcely horizontal, at the time the bird prepares to turn. Such a re- 
sistance do they offer to a storm that sometimes when a bird is bal- 
anced a short distance overhead one can almost imagine seeing the 
wind rushing past its form. They have never been seen to approach 
the water closer than 300 feet, while, on the other hand, they often 
soar upward to a considerable height. The evident method these 
birds adopt to ascend is peculiar, and very interesting to watch at 
close quarters. For, though the bird itself is practically rigid, except 
for slight movements— particular i^arts of which have been alluded 
to — yet those simple actions really explain how the bird rises. Thus, 




SOME BIRD LIFE IN BRITISH PAPUA. 417 

in addition to wliat has already been stat<»d, they consist of u]nvard 
and downward motions, as if, while pressing against the wind, 
advantage is taken when a lull occurs (see Fig. A) ; and, secondly, 
with head still to windward, allowing itself to fall hack a few yards 
as though for a " breather," but still maintaining a slight upward 
tendency during the progress (see Fig. B). Then repetitions ad lib. 
(See diagram.) 

Their rate of speed when with the wind ^^ould be (juite (30 to 70 
miles an hour, if not more. 

Mr. I.iOuis Beck, Avriting in the Pall Mall Gazette, mentions the 
frigate bird as the swiftest of all sea birds, and in some of the equa- 
torial isles of the Pacific it is used as a letter carrier. Taken from 
the nest before it can fly, it is hand fed on a fish diet by the natives, 
and in the course of a few months becomes so tame that it can be 
liberated during the day and will return to its perch at sunset. In 
the records of the London Missionary Society mention is made of 
the letter-carrying frigate birds of the EUice group (northwest of 
Samoa), and that Avriter, Avho resided in those islands for three 
years, had frequent opportunities of witnessing their performances. 

In the northern division the following birds have been recorded 
as existing there, and it would be interesting at a future date to 
learn of their respective peculiarities. They are the dollar bird 
(Eiirystonius)^ New Guinea pheasant, weaver bird, and flycatcher 
{Monachella miielleriana) . Brilliantly hued finches, wagtails, and 
rac(piet-tailed kingfishers {Tnnys'/ptera inicrorhyncha) also excite 
curiosity. White-headed sea hawks {IlaUastiir girrenera) are not 
numerous, but are sufficient to make the oAvners of chickens very 
Avrathful, oAving to their depredations in the poultry run. 

It may not. by the Avay, be out of place to dcA^ote a fcAV lines to the 
native breed of domestic foAvls. The male is a very pretty bird, very 
like a gamecock, Avith a long jx'ndant on either side of the tail. A 
pure white A'ariety is also bred, and is highly prized Iw the Papuans. 
Query: Where did these birds originally come from? All explana- 
tions are vague on the matter. 

In the islands and several parts of the mainland curlews, golden 
plovers, and herons, both black and Avhite, are free agents, and at as 
high an altitude as 0,000 feet on the main range the rare orange- 
crested bower bird (Amhh/ornis suhalarls) has its playground. 

Respecting the "death bird" of Ncav Guinea, too much credence 
should not be indulged in until confirmed. Native myths are numer- 
ous and extraordinar}', even precise in details. The moon, v:q are 
impressively told bj^ some Papuans, Avas originalh' found in the soil 
by one of their number. Avho. in attempting to carry the luminary to 
his A'illage barely escaped Avith his life through not relinquishing the 
prize as it ascended heaA-euAvard. 
SM 1904 27 



BIRD SANCTUARIES OF NEW ZEALAND.'' 



New Zealand has done two things thoroughly, as the following 
paper from The Argus of July 23, 1904, will show. One of these 
is to preserve those wingless birds so characteristic of the country, 
and Avhich, because of their helplessness, would soon disappear as 
settlement increased; the other is to acclimatize the best game of 
other countries. Thus, in turning Canadian moose in their moun- 
tains, they brought a Canadian forester to look after the young 
calves, and a Scotch gamekeeper is now engaged in attending to the 
grouse. Resolution Island, in Dusky Sound, West Coast, discovered 
by Captain Cook, is named after one of the ships in which Cook made 
his first voyage. There is material for a charming little book on 
nature in this official document, the last place a Victorian, knowing 
something of the character of his own government reports, would 
look for it. And Mr. Henry's chat about the birds which are in his 
charge and have become, in some instances, his pets and friends, is so 
homely, so sympathetic, shows so much of close and loving observa- 
tion, that something material to the literature of nature in New Zea- 
land Avould have been lost had the notes not been published. 

The wingless birds that are being given sanctuary on Resolution 
Island are the weka, or wood hen {Oeydromus ai(stralis), the kakapo, 
or great ground parrot {Stringops hahrojytilus) ^ the roa {Apteryx 
luKistl)^ and the kiwi, or apteryx (Apterjjx oweni). In addition to 
these, which are his special charge, Mr. Henry writes of all the birds 
which are either native to or visit the island. It is the wingless ones, 
however, that are of chief interest. Had New Zealand possessed 
among its native fauna any destructive animals, such as the Austra- 
lian dingo or the Tasmanian devil, these birds would have been 
extinct long ago. In settled country both dogs and cats play havoc 
with them, and the English weasel, which, as Mr. Henry observes, 
would never have been introduced had its habits been known thor- 
oughly, is also destructive. When rabbits became such a nuisance 
that poisoned wheat was laid for them, some of the wingless birds 
were killed in thousands, like the English pheasants, which have 
been so successfully acclimatized. In many of the public reserves of 

« Reprinted, by permission, from The Emu, Melbourne, October, 1904. 

419 



420 BIRD SANCTUARIES OF NEW ZEALAND. 

New Zealand, such as the charming gardens at New Plymouth, one 
can hear the pheasant calling constantly in the brush, and it is this 
thick native iniderwood which gave originally complete protection 
to the wingless birds. 

The weka, or wood hen, is evidently one of the most interesting of 
the residents on Resolution Island. The quaint ways and quick 
sagacity of two of them, " Chicken " and " Scrag," who visit the 
caretaker's house on the lookout for table scraps, and share the con- 
tents of the dog's dish Avithout risk, are amusingly described. These 
birds mate for life, and take turn about in hatching and protecting 
the brood. One of them is never absent from the nest from the time 
the first egg is laid until the j^oung, which look like balls of soft 
down, are able to protect themselves. This care is the more neces- 
sary, as both the eggs and young are destroyed b}^ rats, Aveasels, and 
sparrow hawks. Sometimes, of an evening, when the tide is low, 
the wood hens take their families out on the beaches, and the spar- 
row hawks watch for them there and kill the young by scores. The 
weka is, in its turn, destructive. Paradise ducks {Casarca I'ariegata) , 
like the wild ducks of Australia, cover up their eggs carefully with a 
mat of down when leaving the nest, but the wekas have an heredi- 
tary knowledge of the trick, and a young bird, Avhich has never seen 
a duck's nest, tears away the down to get at the eggs the moment it 
discovers one. If they find a hen"s nest with the eggs uncovered, 
they always go through the motions of tearing away the nest before 
starting to eat the eggs. Although on friendly terms with the care- 
taker, they hide their own nests away from him A'ery carefully, and, 
if one of the pair comes to the house for scraps for its mate, it always 
takes a roundabout track to the nest, and is careful to see that it is 
neither watched nor followed. They kill each other's young, so that 
every pair on the island has its oAvn run, and no others are allowed 
to intrude. Mr. Henry considers these birds most valuable as insect 
destroyers in an orchard, and observes that, if they were difficult to 
get, fruit growers Avould be quite keen about them. On the table- 
land above the Otira Gorge, when crossing from the Avest coast, one 
often sees the Aveka and her brood running along the track in front 
of the coach. When the first brood Inn^e been hatched and are fairly 
groAvn, the hen hands them oA'er to her mate and starts to lay again. 
The male sbejiherds the J^oung persistently, apparently giA'es them 
all the food he can find, and if they call for help in danger he is Avith 
them in an instant, keen for a fight. A^Tien he finds a rat he tackles 
it instanth', though not strong enough to kill it single handed. The 
squeaking of the rat is a signal to another Aveka, Avho rushes up and 
helps to kill the enemy. 

It is surmised that the kaka{)o, or great ground parrot — the only 
parrot which does not fly — had once the use of its wings. Finding in 



BTRn SANCTUARIES OF NEW ZEALAND. 421 

New Zealand no ground ciuMuies and ahundanco of food and cover, 
it ceased to use its Avinijs, which only subjected it to tlie i-isk of being 
taken by a hawk, and as the wings degenerated from disuse the legs 
deveh)ped in the same proportion, so that now it is a good runner. 
Tree parrots in Australia are awkard on the ground, but the seed- 
eating grass parrots all run quickly. In addition to the islands, 
which are so convenient a sanctuary, the government has two pre- 
serves for kakapos on the mainland. They are night feeders, though 
fruit eaters, an unusual combination, as Mr. Henry points out. Like 
the owls, they have a disk of prominent feathers about the eyes, and 
near the nose those long hair-like feathers or feelers common to noc- 
turnal birds or those which have their home underground. They are 
so feeble, so unconscious of having enemies, that ong may go up to 
them without their showing any alarm. If touched they are resent- 
ful, but if you sit down beside the bird a little while in daylight it 
tucks its head calndy under its wnng and goes off to sleep again. 
Unlike the wega, the kakapo hides her nest away carefully from her 
own mate, wdio is generally both fat and indolent. These birds only 
l)reed every second year, and the curious point about them is that all 
the birds lay in the same season — a peculiarity which naturalists are 
quite unable to undertsand. Their call at night is very much like the 
booming of a bittern in the sw^amps, and the night drumming is only 
heard just before the nesting time. In the following year they are 
silent. The birds are always plentiful where wild berries grow 
thickly, and New Zealanders speak of such spots as " kakapo gar- 
dens." The young, when first hatched, are covered with snow-white 
down. The holes so frequently found in their gardens, where they 
have scratched, suggest that they dig for truffles, and it is knowm that 
they eat mushrooms. 

The roa, another of the wingless birds, is distinguished by its 
wonderful beak — long, slender, and slightly curved. This, too, is a 
night bird, and rarely found far away from forests. It uses its 
long, snipe-like bill just for the same purpose that the snipe does its 
bill, except that it works in harder ground, and its chief food is earth- 
worms. Its sight is poor, but nature, as is usually the case, compen- 
sates for this defect by sharpening up its sense of smell and hearing. 
\\Tien seen in the moonlight, it moves slowly along with its bill out- 
stretched, and often stands with the point of its bill resting upon the 
earth, as though either trying to scent the Avorms or feel for their 
movements underground. The peculiar thing about their breeding 
habits is that a young bird a week or so old and a fresh egg are fre- 
quently found in the same nest. Ijike the wekas, the jjarent roas share 
the cares of a family, though in another way — the male does all the 
hatching. The young are born with all their feathers like mature 
birds, and apparently all their intelligence as well, for as soon as they 



422 BIRD SANCTUARIES OF NEW ZEALAND. 

are hatcned they start to search for their own food, and require no 
hints as to the best phice to find it. The single egg, like that of the 
mutton bird, is exceptionally large. Thus, in the nesting season the 
hen, always in fine condition, weighs about 8 pounds, the " hatcher " 
5 pounds and the eggs 18 ounces. 

The gray kiwi is described as a shy, gentle, little thing, that seems 
to depend wholly for its existence on its ability to hide away in lonely 
places. They are shaped nmch like the roa, but have straight beaks. 
It is a light-loving bird, that feds by day mostly upon white grubs. 
It resembles the roa in its breeding habits, laying one large egg, 
hatched by the male bird, but while, in the nesting season, the pair of 
roas are rarely separated the kiwis are just as rarely found together. 
The young are very beautiful birds, quite silent, but so alert and cau- 
tious that if you take your eyes off them for a while they disappear. 
Wlien grown, they have a shrill, whistling note, which Mr. Henry 
describes as like a guard's whistle in a railway train heard a little way 
olf. In summer both the roa and the kiwi like to go up to the high 
ground, affecting naked mountain crests, and their pathways are 
clearly marked. The kiwi builds in a short burrow underground, 
generally protected at the mouth by the root of a tree. In the case of 
both the roa and kiwi, it looks as though the male bird hatched con- 
tinuously for about thirty daj's. They go on the nest fat and plump, 
and by the time the young bird is hatched are feeble skeletons. 



THE HOUSE SPARROW. 



By Dr. J. O. Skinner. U. S. Army (Retired). 



Mr. Thompson, a Canadian, referring, abont twenty-two years ago, 
to the unwise introduction into the United States of this intolerable 
nuisance when its character and habits were so well known in Eng- 
land, made the following statement: "What wonder that the Eng- 
lish farmer stared in blank amazement when first he heard of it, or 
that he failed to account for the action, except on the assumption 
that America had been visited by a wave of temporary insanity." 
We shall attempt to briefly give a few of the facts from which this 
inference was doubtless drawn. 

The house sparrow {Passer domesticus) ^ coravLiowly caWQCi in Amer- 
ica the " English " sparrow, has been known for ages as one of the 
worst of feathered pests. The name " English " sparrow is mislead- 
ing, since it would indicate that it originated in England which is 
not really the case, for its history begins with that of man, and it is 
referred to by Aristotle and many other European writers on natural 
history who followed him ; in fact, there is reason for believing that 
it was known to people of whom we have no written history. When 
writing was invented the sparrow was selected for the hieroglyphic 
symbolizing enemy, and proofs of its destructive habits have been 
cited by certain authors showing that it has been the enemy of man- 
kind for more than five thousand years. This prolific little poacher, 
belonging to the granivorous family {FringilUdae), not only does 
much damage to grain, fruit, and other products of the soil, and dis- 
figures all buildings used by it for nesting purposes, but it is so pugi- 
listic that it drives away many insectivorous birds which are of 
great benefit to those engaged in agriculture or horticulture. More 
than any other wild bird, it is attached to human dwelling"^ and is 
not known to thrive anywhere far away from the habitations or 
works of men, extending its range in new countries as settlements 
are formed and lands are cultivated. 

It has already fully adapted itself to all continents and has been 

transported to some of the most distant islands in the Indian and 

Pacific oceans. 

433 



424 THE HOUSE SPARROW. 

In the fall of 1850, Mr. Nicolas Pike, of Brooklyn, N. Y., brought 
over from Europe eight pairs of this bird and turned them loose the 
following spring. For some unaccountable reason, unless it be that 
they were the recipients of too much kindness, they did not thrive, 
and in 1852 a second and more successful effort was made. In 1851 
and 1858 it was introduced at Portland, Me., and at Peacedale, R. I., 
and a few birds escaped at Boston. 

During the next ten years it was imported direct from Europe to 
eight other cities, and in one case 1,000 birds were sent to Philadelphia 
in a single lot. By 1870 it had become established as far south as 
Columbia, S. C, Louisville, Ky., and Galveston, Tex.; as far west as 
St. Louis, Mo., and Davenport, Iowa, and so far north as Montreal, 
Canada, thus gaining a residence in 20 States, the District of Colum- 
bia, and 2 provinces of Canada, and the end of its migration Avas not 
yet. Between 1870 and 1880 it had extended its habitat over 15,000 
square miles, and in 1873 Salt Lake City and San Francisco had been 
reached l)y this rapid colonizer. Even this extended area did not 
satisfy its migratory instincts, for during the next five years it estab- 
lished itself in more than 500,000 square miles of territory, and by 188G 
35 States and 5 Territories, practically all of the country east of the 
Mississippi (except parts of 3 Southern States), as well as 8 Western 
States, had been invaded and occupied. Its range of habitation now 
covered, including nearly 150,000 square miles in Canada, over 
1,000,000 square miles, and by 1898 only 3 States (AVyoming, Nevada, 
and Montana) and 3 Territories (New Mexico, Arizona, and Alaska) 
were free. It is presumed that by this time it has reached even those, 
districts, and its occupancy of the entire United States is complete. 

Besides the United States, New Zealand and Australia have been 
much damages by the " English " sparrow, it being regarded in 
certain Australian colonies as a nuisance almost equal to the rabbit. 
Although introduced by an acclimatization society on the North 
Island of New Zealand in 180G, it threatened, sixteen years later, 
to spread over the whole island, since it appeared in the most inac- 
cessible places, contrary to its usual preference for cities and towns. 
This was no doubt due to overcrowding, the result of its rapid 
propagation. Having been carried to Victoria in 1865, it was not 
long before it discovered and occupied Queensland, New South 
Wales, South Australia, and Tasmania, although thus far it has 
been excluded from AVestci-ii Australia by vigorous legal measures 
prohibiting its introduction. It will no doubt reach there in due 
time on its own transportation. It has already migrated to many 
other parts of the world and may be regarded as a veritaljle little 
cosmopolite. It is also present on Mauritius, in the Indian Ocean, 
and liaving reached Honolulu twenty years ago, it is fair to assume 
that if it has not already " ])rospectcd " our possessions in the Philip- 



THE HOUSE SPARROW. 425 

pine Islands, it will do so very soon. On the Atlantic side it is found in 
J5(M-ninda. the Bahamas, and Cuba, and i)ossihly Porto Rico, althouiih 
its presence there has not yet been reported. Its conduct in Bernuida 
since it was sent there in 1874 has been just as objectionable as else- 
where, so that, after at first punishin<i; with a prescribed fine anyone 
who attempted its destruction, the lawmakers themselves were obliged, 
ten years later, to change their code by placing a legal premium on 
its extermination. Although the area of the islands is less than 20 
square miles, nearly $3,000 Avas expended in two years for this 
purpose with no aj^preciable effect, so numerous had become the 
progeny of this prolific i)rofligate. 

Although the house sparrow is now very generalh^ distributed over 
Pennsylvania, it first appeared in the Cumberland Valley (Cham- 
bersburg) of that State about 1872, according to the observations of 
Mr. Davids(m Greenawalt, and may have emigrated there from Ship- 
pensburg, where one pair Avas carried from Philadelijhia about 18G8. 

It considers itself at home everywhere, apparentl}^, and evidenth^ 
comes to stay wherever found. There is no instance in ornithology 
where any other bird has multiplied so rapidly or covered such an 
extensive area in so short a time. This is not altogether surprising 
when it is remembered how much it has been assisted until recently, 
by persons unfamiliar with or indifferent to its character and habits. 

Not only has it been transported intentionally from place to place, 
but has been pampered until the mistake was made too manifest to be 
longer ignored. The number of eggs in a set varies from four to 
seven, and one pair of l)irds usually raises four, sometimes five, and 
even six broods, according to some observers, in a year. It takes 
very little computation to determine what the results of this extraor- 
dinary fecundity would presumably be in a single decade. As it 
always prefers cities, towns, or villages— in fact, does not go to the 
country except at harvest times, until it is crowded out by overpopu- 
lation following its rapid propagation — it is further protected, by 
this choice of habitation, against the dangers and hardships by 
which the increase of many other birds is restricted. As a rule 
excessive reproduction of a species in the animal kingdom, with its 
consequent overcrowding, results in disease (epidemics or parasites) 
which prevent its unlimited multiplication. This is not the case with 
the house sparrow ; it is one of the most vigorous of birds, notwith- 
standing its numerous progeny. It adapts itself wonderfully to 
diverse conditions, being able to endure the prolonged heat of trop- 
ical summer as well as to survive the protracted cold of a Canadian 
Avinter. 

In view of the reputation and record of this bird wherever found, 
and the repeated Avarnings giA^n to those AAdio Avere about to import 
it, the continued interest in it aiul persistent effort to secure and sue- 



426 THE HOUSE SPARROW. 

cor it have been, indeed, difficult to understand, unless in the belief 
that it Avas done with the mistaken idea that it would destroy insect 
})ests, particularly canker worms, in the parks of cities, and where it 
was originally introduced. This error was pointed out at the time, 
but was ignored ; in fact, such a sparrow " boom " existed at one 
l^eriod in this country that parties so infatuated found it cheaper to 
import direct from Europe than from New York and other places 
at home. There were two classes who always seemed anxious to 
have the house sparrow in this country. One was the European 
part of our population, who, remembering the surroundings of the 
homes they had left, longed for its familiar chirp and suggestive 
cheerfulness; the other was that class of peoj^le who thought they 
were getting an insectivore, although they were informed by com- 
petent authority to the contrary. Now, there is an insectivorous 
bird called and known in England as tlie hedge sparrow, but which 
is no sparrow at all. It is the Accentor modularis:, belonging to 
an entirely different family {Sylvnd(e), the old-world warblers, is 
related to the thrushes, and, like all of its family, feeds on insects 
almost entirely, while the sparrow family proper are mainly graniv- 
orous, except in the spring and summer w^hen raising their young, 
which they feed on insects and other soft food. It is reasonable to 
sui^pose that the importer of the house sparrow confused it in his 
mind with the hedge sparrow. 

Sonnini, in the Dictionaire d'Histoire Naturelle, nearly a century 
ago, writes that spai-rows lived " only in society with man, dividing 
with him his grain* his fruit, and his home; they attack the first 
fruit that ripens, the grain as it approaches maturity, and even that 
which has been stored in granaries." He also states that " 82 grains 
of wheat were counted in the craw of a sparrow shot by the writer; 
and Ivougier de la Bergerie, to whom we owe excellent memoirs on 
rural economy, estimates that the sparrows of France consume annu- 
ally 10,000,000 bushels of Avheat." Reports from France have been 
confirmed by those from other countries, and the character of the 
house sparrow has been discussed in France, Germany, and Great 
Britain for more than four centuries. The damage done by it to 
agriculture and horticulture has been immense, simply incalculable, 
for it has been inflicted directly and indirectly. 

Besides the direct injury by it to grain crops (wheat, corn, oats, 
rye, barley, buckwheat, etc.), to fruits, garden seeds, vegetables, and 
to buds, blossoms, and foliage of trees and vines, is also that resulting 
indirectly from its molestation of other wild birds which are known 
to be decidedly beneficial to the garden and farm. Testimony has 
been secured showing that there are at least 70 kinds of these, includ- 
ing martins, swallows, wrens, and bluebirds, Avliich are interfered 
with to the great loss of farmers and gardeners. It not only succeeds 



THE HOUSE SPARROW. 427 

in many instances in j)rovi'ntinii' niany dosirahlc hii'ds from nostin<2^, 
by ()cciipyin<2: lluMr pirmisos and driving them away, but it even de- 
vours their eggs while they are absent finding and feeding on insects. 

For fifteen years, say from 1855 to 1870, after its colonization in 
America, the protests against its introduction were confined to a few 
well-informed natui'alists and to such naturalized persons as had ob- 
served its ravages elsewhere, (Jradually, however, its advocates and 
defenders became less numerous. The evidence of the little crimiiud's 
guilt was irrefutable, as determined by competent witnesses in the 
form of innumerable dissections. 

Many methods, legislative and otherwise, it is true, have been 
adopted and pursued in various places to exterminate it, but without 
success. Pennsylvania enacted the following law June 4, 1883 : 

Sec. 1. Br it enacted, etc., That from and after the passage of this act it shall 
be lawful at any season of the year to kill or in any way destroy the small bird 
known as the English sparrow. 

Many other States have done as much and more. Some towns and 
counties have offered bounties. One State (Michigan) paid at one 
time a bounty of 1 cent per head on English sparrows. 

Shooting, poisoning, trapping, and nest destroying have been 
resorted to without any appreciable effect. 

Probably the most promising method of checking its increase would 
be the systematic destruction of its nests and eggs during the breediuij 
season. This has never been done on a large scale, although a few 
years ago the city of Boston undertook to clear the nests from Boston 
Common. About 4,000 nests and 1,000 eggs were destroyed, but after 
three weeks the work was sto2:)ped by order of the mayor. 

The northern shrike is known to kill English sparrows, but since 
it occurs in the United States only in winter, and does not usnallv 
frequent cities or towns, its work as a sparrow destro3"er would be 
problematical. The outlook for relief from this pest and nuisance 
is therefore serious and discouraging. 

A letter received by the writer from the late Dr. Elliott Cones, one 
of the leading ornithologists of his day, relative to this matter, con- 
tains the following disheartening statement : 

The multiplication of these early lots and of many later ones has given the 
invincible foreigner an assured foothold over most of the United States from 
which he will never be dislodged. The case is paralleled in Australia and New 
Zealand. I led the " sparrow war " for twenty j^ears and only surrendered to 
tlie inevitable. You may do what you please, shoot or poison as many as you 
can, more will come to the funeral, and nothing you can do will make any 
appreciable difference. The case is hopeless. 

Although generally considered a town bird it is well known also 
in the coiuitry. Many insectivorous birds are driven away or 



428 THE HOUSE SPARROW. 

seriously interfered with by it, and the writer has frequently seen 
the martin dispossessed, after a desperate resistance, of the premises 
proA'ided for it by farmers, and uUimately driven away entirely by 
the s})arrow, from its home and neii^hboi'hood. 

Keferrinpf to the advent of the English sparrow, the Kansas City 
Journal ({uoted some time ago from the Topeka Journal as having 
" an account of the first English sparrows brought to Kansas. In 
18G4, F. W. Giles conceived the idea of importing some of these birds. 
He shipped in all 28 of them. They were confined in cages at his 
place in Topeka until all but 5 had died. At last the 5 were turned 
loose to take their chances of life or death, though (iiles had no hope 
that they would live. They fooled him. They took up their home 
in the neighborhood. The following autumn there were 12 bii'ds. 
The second season found GO, and the third sunnner about 3,000. Then 
they increased so fast that no account could be kept, and in the 
twenty-five years which followed they spread all over the West." 



SOME TIBETAN ANIMALS.* 



By R. Lydekker. 



Naturalists are speculating whether the opening up of Tibet, which 
is practically sure to follow the present expedition to Lassa, will 
result in the discovery of any new animals of special interest. So far 
as the smaller mammals, such as mice, rats, squirrels, shrews, etc., are 
concerned, it can not be doubted that systematic collecting will be sure 
to yield a certain number of new forms. With regard to the larger 
mammals, the case is, however, different, and it would l)e unwise to 
expect that any strikingly new type is likely to turn up, although 
important information will doubtless be obtained in due course with 
regard to the mode of life and the nature of the habitat of several 
of the nuunmals already known to us. The reasons for taking this 
somewhat discouraging view as to the prospects of discovering new 
animals of large size in Tibet arc as follows: 

In the first place, although few Europeans have hitherto actually 
reached Lassa, the country has l)een traversed to the northward of 
that city from east to west — notably by Messrs. Bower and Thorold 
in 1892 — by travelers who have done all in their power to collect 
specimens of the fauna; while many sportsmen, naturalists, and col- 
lectors have penetrated far into the interior from either the eastern or 
the western border. Moreover, the typical Tibetan fauna inhabiting 
the high plateaus above 14,000 feet is closely allied to, if not absolutely 
identical Avith, that of eastern Ladak, which lies within the limits of 
Kashmir territory, and has therefore for many 3'ears past been readily 
accessible to Europeans. On the other hand, the mammals of the 
somewhat lower and apparently more or less wooded districts forming 
the eastern portion of Tibet range into the northwestern provinces of 

a Reprinted, by i)erniission, from Knowledge and Illustrated Scientific News, 
London, September, 1904. 

429 



430 SOME TIBETAN ANIMALS. 

China, such as Shansi and Kansu, where they have of late years been 
collected by Mr. F. W. Styan, an English tea planter. Not that our 
information with regard to the mammals of eastern Tibet depends 
by an}^ means solely on the collections made in Kansu and Shansi. 
On the contrary, the great French missionary ex2:)lorer. Abbe David, 
succeeded many years ago in penetrating into the heart of the Moupin 
district of eastern Tibet, whence he brought back a number of mam- 
mals belonging to types previously unknown to science. Practically 
all that has resulted from subsequent exploration and collection is to 
prove the extension of the range of these peculiar types into western 
China, and to add to them a few species differing only in compara- 
tiveh^ trivial features. The absence of any distinctly new types in 
this west Chinese fauna seems to point to the improbability of any 
striking novelty among the larger types of animal life remaining to 
be discovered in Tibet. 

Of the strange animals first brought from eastern Tibet by Abbe 

DaA'id, and subsequently obtained 
by Mr, Styan in western China, by 
far the most remarkable is the crea- 
ture now known to naturalists as 
the great panda {^Fluropus niela- 
noleucns), although at one time de- 
nominated the particolored bear 
c^^'*r«''l;,,.,A^*.-^^---~^~^^s^*^'^ i^b- !)• Ill appearance this ani- 
Pio.L-Great panda. ^'^1 ^^^ indeed, strangely bear-like, 

although far inferior in bodily size 
to most membt'rs of the Ci'sidd- the rudimentarj^ tail, plantigrade 
feet, short ears, and broad head being all ursine features. Moreover, 
it is not a little remarkable that a species of true bear (Ursus jyruin- 
osus) inhabiting 'J'ibet not infrexpiently presents a type of coloration 
approximating to that of the great panda, in Avhich the legs and 
underparts, together with a band across the shoulders and a ring 
round each e3'c, are sooty black, while all the rest is pure white. On 
the other hand, wlien the face of the great i)anda is compared with 
that of the much smaller and long-tailed arboreal animal inhabiting 
the eastern Himalaya, and known as the true panda {.EIiu'uh fiil- 
gens)^ a marked resemblance can be detected, and Avhen careful com- 
parison between the teeth and skeletons of the two animals is made, it 
becomes apparent that the great panda is nuich more nearly related 
to the long-tailed species than it is to the bears. In fact, these two 
animals appear to be the Old ^\^orld representatives of the raccoons 
and coatis of America, and thus afford one more instance of the close 
affinity existing between the faunas of eastern Asia and North Amer- 




SOME TIBETAN ANIMALS. 



431 




Fio. 2.— Ti'otli <if right side of jaw of great panda. 



ica. The tooth of tho <>Toat paiuhi (fig. "J) aro most boaiitiful and 
intorostiii<>- ohjocts — on tlio Avhoh> ai)proacliino- miu-h noaror to those 
of the lesser panda than to the ursine typo. Of the habits of the great, 
panda, we are at pres- 
ent in complete ignor- 
ance; but on this 
point wo may hope in 
time to bo enlightened 
by tho opening u]) of 
Tibet. Whether wo 
may ever expect to 
see such a wonderful 
creature alive in the 
Regents Park, it is difficult even to guess. Probably the groat panda 
is a native of the more or less wooded districts of eastern Tibet, and 
not of the arid and elevated central plateau. 

The same must undoubtedly be the case with the Tibetan snul)- 

nosed monkey (Rlihiopi- 
thecus roxeUana') (fig. H), 
which was lilcowise the 
first -known representa- 
tive of a now generic 
type discovered in the 
Moupin district of east- 
ern Tibet by the Abbe 
David. It has, however, 
boon subsequently ob- 
tained in Szechuan, while 
a second representative of 
tho irenus has been discovered in northwest China and a third in' 
the mountains bordering the Mekong River, That tho Tibetan ropre-^ 
.tentative of the snub-nosed monkeys, at all events, is a native of a 
cold climate may be inferred from its massive and "chubby'' build 
and its thick coat, which in winter forms a long, silky mantle of great 
beauty on the back. As to the peculiar form of tho nose, so utterly 
unlike that of ordinary monkeys, the suspicion arises that it may be 
in some way connected with life at a high altitude, seeing that the 
Chiru antelope, to be noticed later on, has gone in for a very strange 
development in the way of noses. At present, however, we are very 
much in the dark as to the relative height of the districts in Avhich 
these strange monkevs are found. 

Nothing special need bo said with regard to the above-mentioned 
Tibetan bear, except that it appears to be a peculiar s[)ocies. The 
mere mention that the snow-leopard [Felis uncia) is an inhabitant of 




Fifi. 3.--Orange snub-nosed monkey. 



432 SOME TIBETAN ANIMALS. 

the Tibet plateau must likewise suffice, seeing that this handsome cat 
has a wide range in central Asia. 

Several s])ecies of deer are found in or near Tibet, although all of 
them appear to be confined to the wooded districts bordering the arid 
central plateau. The finest of those is undoul)tedly the slum {Cervns 
ii-fjims), a species allied to the red deer, inhabiting the forests some- 
where near the head of the Chumbi Valley, in Sikhim. This deer is 
very rare in collections, where it is represented mainly by skulls and 
antlers, but it is probable that specimens will before long be forth- 
coming. A young individual is stated to have been killed during the 
early days of the Tibet expedition. Thorold's deer {C. albirostris) 
is a rather smaller and much darker colored species, readih^ distin- 
guished by its white muzzle and the comparatively simple antlers. It 
exhibits the relatively' hea\'y build characteristic of species inhabiting 
cold countries. This fine deer was first obtained in the wooded dis- 
tricts to the north of Lassa by the Russian explorer Przewalski, and 
subsequently by the English traveler Doctor Thorold, to whom the 
British Museum is indebted for its specimen. The third deer peculiar 
to the country is the Tibetan tufted deer {Elaphodus cephalophiis) ^ 
a species of the apj^roximate size of a roebuck, and typifying a pe- 
culiar genus. In general character this deer is nearly related to the 
Indian and Malay muntjacs {Cenmhis)^ the bucks being armed with 
similar long tusks in the upper jaAV, but the antlers are even smaller 
than in the latter, being reduced to mere knobs, and there are distinc- 
tive peculiarities in the skull. This interesting deer was first obtained 
l>y the Abbe David in the Moupin district of eastern Tibet, but a sec- 
ond species was soon afterwards secured near Ningi)o, in eastern 
China, Avhile a third kind has recently been described from the moun- 
tains near Ichang, in central China. 

In hollow-horned ruminants (oxen, sheep, antelopes, etc.) Tibet is 
specially rich, many of the species being 2:)eculiar to th(> country, 
where several of them are confined to the high central arid plateau. 

The first place in this group must undoubtedly be assigned to the 
yak {Bos grunniens) , one of the finest and largest of the wild oxen, 
specially characterized by the great growth of long, shaggy hair along 
tlie flanks and underparts of the body and the well-known bushy tail. 
In this country, unfortunately, a somewhat false impression of the 
yak is prevalent, OAving to the fact that all the specimens hitherto 
imported Iwlong either to a small domesticated breed from Darjiling 
or to half-breeds, the latter being generally black and white, instead 
of the uniform black distinctive of the pure-bred and M'ild animal. 
None of such half-breeds can compare with the magnificent half- 
tamed animals kej)t by the natives of the elevated Ilupsu Plateau, to 
the south of the Indus, where they afford the cidy means of transj)ort 
by this route between Ladak and India. And even these Eupsu 



SOME TIBETAN ANIMALS. 



433 



honsts are inferior to the wild yak, Avhich stands nearly 6 feet at the 
slioulder. These niagniiicent animals are absohitely confined to the 
arid central phiteau, on some parts of which, hitherto closed to Euro- 
peans, they are said to be comparatively numerous. 

Another native of the same bare plateau is the Tibetan argali, or 
wild sheep (Ovis amnion hodgsoni)^ a magnificent animal, with horns 
of wonderfully massive j)roportions in the old rams. Since, however, 
this species is only a local variety of the true argali of central Asia 
generally, it is of less interest than the types exclusively confined to 
the country. The same may be said of the shapoo, or Tibetan urial 
{Ovis vignei), which is the typi- 
cal race of a smaller race of wild 
sheep, whose range extends in 
one direction into northwestern 
India and in another into Persia. 
A third species of Avild sheep, 
the bharal, or blue sheep {Ovis 
nahura)^ readily distinguished 
by its smooth and peculiarly 
curved horns and close gray- 
blue coat with black points, is, 
however, absolutely characteris- 
tic of the arid Tibetan plateau, 
on which it is found in large 
flocks. On the other hand, the 
Asiatic ibex (Capra sibirica), 
which frequents the more craggy 
ground instead of the rolling up- 
lands, is a species Avith a very 
Avide distribution in central Asia. 

Although the yak and the 
bharal maA^ be regarded as rep- 
senting by themseh^es distinct 
subgeneric types, all the hoUoAv- 
horned ruminants hitherto men- 
tioned are members of Avidely spread genera. We noAV come, hoAv- 
cA-er, to a remarkable species, which is the sole representative of a 
genus quite apart from any other and absolutely restricted to the arid 
central plateau. This is the graceful chiru, or Tibetan antelope 
{Pantholops hogsoni), of Avhich the bucks are armed Avith long, 
slender, and heavily ridged horns of an altogether peculiar type 
(fig. 4), Avhile the does are hornless. Possibly this handsome ante- 
lope may be the original of the mythical unicorn, a solitary buck, 
AVlien seen in profile, looking exactly as if it had but a single 
SM 1904 28 




Fig. 4.— Head of male chiru. 



434 SOME TIBETAN ANIMALS. 

loni»' straight horn. Althoniili far from uiiconiiiion, chirii are 
very Avarv, and consequently difficult to approach. Like all Tibetan 
animals, they have a firm thick coat, formed in this instance of close 
Avoolly hair of a gray-fawn color. Tln^ most peculiar feature about 
the chiru is, however, its swollen pufl'y nose, Avhich is probably con- 
nected with breathing a highly rarified atmosphere. This antelope 
has never been exhibited alive in a menagei'ie, and, as is the case 
with the other large mammals of the central desert plateau of Tibet, 
it would probably not live if removed from its native uplands to ordi- 
nary levels. A second antelo})e inhal)iting the same country as the 
chiru is the goa {GazcJla 'picticaudatd), a member of the gazille group, 
characterized by the peculiar form of the horns of the bucks and cer- 
tain features of coloration, Avhereby it is markedl}' distinguished from 
all its kinch'ed save one or two other central Asiatic species. 

The most remarkable of all the Tibetan hollow-horned ruminants is, 
however, the takin {Budorcas taxicolor), of wdiich the t3q:)ical repre- 
sentative inhabits the Mishmi Hills, in the southeast corner of the 
country, imnie<liately north of the Assam Valley, while a second 
variety is found farther east in the Moupin district. The takin, 
which may be compared in size to a Kerry cow, is a clumsily built 
brute with yellowish-brown hair and curiously curved horns, which 
in some degree recall those of the South African white-tailed gnu. 
Its nearest relatives appear to be the seroAvs of the outer Himalaya 
and the Malay countries, which are in many respects intermediate 
between goats and antelopes. As it lacks the thick woolly coat of 
the chiru and the goa, there can be little doubt that it inhabits a coun- 
try with a less severe climate than that of the central Til>etan pla- 
teau, and it is ])robably a native of the more or less wooded districts 
of comparatively low elevation forming the outskirts of Tibet. It 
is one of the few large animals that hitherto appears never to have 
fallen to the rifle of a European. 

With the large and handsome wild ass or wild horse (for it is, to a 
great extent, intermediate between the two), locally known as the 
kiang, we return once more to a characteristic denizen of the desert 
plateau forming the heart of Tibet. The kiang {Equus hemionvs 
hmng) stands close on 13 hands at the shoulder, and is of a bright red 
bay in color, with the muzzle, underparts, and legs dazzling white. 
Its ears (fig. 5) are relatively much shorter and its hoofs much 
broader than in the true wild asses of Africa, from which it also 
differs markedly in color, while its cry is somewhat between a bray 
and a neigh. In the higher and more open parts of Ladak, kiang 
are to be seen in large numbers; and the}' come galloping round the 
convoy of the traveler in circles, with their heads carried high in the 
air, so that the face is almost horizontal. Wliether the kiang is en- 



SOME TIBETAN ANIMALS. 435 

iitled to 1)0 riuikod as a distinct species, or whether it should be 
re^rarded merely as a variety of the chijretai. or wild ass of Mon- 
crolia. and the lowlands of central Asia generally, is a moot point. 
But. be this as it may, the creature is absolutely confined to the 
central des(M-t i)lateau of Tibet, where in Avinter it develops a coat 
as thick and rou<>:h as a door mat, in order to afl'ord etfectual protec- 
tion against the rigors of that season at such an altitude. 

In addition to the foregoing list of large mammals, Tibet is like- 
Avise the home of a number of peculiar species of smaller size. 
Among these it must, hoAvever, suffice to make mention of only two on 
the present occasion. Firstly, there is a remarkable species of Avatcr 
shreAv, di tiering in nmny respects from the connnon water shreAv 
{Neomys fodiens), and accordingly referred to a genus by itself 
under the name of Xectogale elegans. Of that genus it is the sole 
knoAvn representative. When Ave are 
fully acquainted Avith it the Tibetan 
palm civet {Paradoxurus laniger), 
at present knoAvn only by a single 
skin obtained so long ago as 1836, 
Avill prove almost as interesting a 
species, for it is quite probable that 
it Avill turn out to be generally dis- _,^^-' ^ ' ,\ 

tinct from the palm civets of India ' -^ 

and the Malay countries, from Avhich 
it differs by its woolly coat. 

Such a large number of peculiar 
generic and specific types of mam- Fig. 5.-Heart of kiang. 

mals restricted to a continental area 

of the comparatiA^ely small size of the Tibetan plateau is a feature 
unparalleled elscAvhere, and to find an analogous instance we must 
take the case of an island like Celebes, which has been isolated for 
ages from all surrounding lands. It Avould seem, therefore, that 
Tibet has been similarly isolated, so far as immigration and emigra- 
tion of its animal fauna is concerned, for a A'ast period of time; an 
insulation due, doubtless, to its great elevation above the sea level, and 
the consequent severity of its climate and rarity of its atmosphere. 
Climatic peculiarities of this nature can only be endured by animals 
especially adapted to such conditions of existence, and it is accord- 
ingly only natural to expect that Avhen once the Tibetan fauna had 
become modified for the needs of its environment it would haA^e re- 
mained permanently isolated from that of the surrounding countries. 




THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OF IIOKSES AND PONIES." 



By Dr. J. Cossar Ewart, F. R. S. 



Hitluu'to it has been o-enerally assuiiied that wihl liorses have been 
long extinct, that all domestic horses are the descendants of a single 
wild species, and that, except in size, ponies in no essential points 
(litter from horses. 

Now that systematic attempts are being made to improve native 
breeds of horses in various parts of the world, it is obviously desir 
able to settle once for all whether, as is alleged, occidental as well as 
oriental and African races and breeds have sprung from the same 
wild progenitors, and more especially if all ponies are merely dwarf 
specimens of one or more of the recognized domestic breeds of horses. 

To be in a position to arrive at a conclusion as to the origin of the 
various kinds of domestic horses, and at the same time find an answer 
to the important and oft-repeated question. What is a pony? one must 
clear up as far as possible the later chapters in the history of that 
section of the Equidse to which the true horses belong. 

It is generally admitted that the ancestors of the living Equidae 
reached the Old World from the New, the later immigrants crossing 
by land bridges in the vicinity of Bering Straits. If horses came 
originally from the New World, to the New World we may turn for 
infoi-mation as to their remote progenitors. 

According to recent inquiries. North America possessed in pre- 
Glacial times at least nine perfectly distinct wild species of Equidfe. 
Some of these were of a considerable size— e. g., Equns eomplieatux of 
the southern and middle western States, and E. oecidentaJus of Cali- 
fornia were as large as a small cart horse. Others were intermediate 
ill size — e. g., E. fraternis of the southeastern States; and at least 
one — E. fan of Mexico — was extremely small. Some of the American 
pre-Glacial Equida- were characterized by very large heads and short, 
strong limbs, some by small heads and slender limbs, and although 
the majority conformed to the true horse type, two or three were 
constructed on the lines of asses and zebras. 

a Abridged from Transactions Highland and Agricultiu-al Society of Scotland, 
Vol. XVI, 1904. Rei>rinte(l. iiy itcrniisslon, from Nature. London, Api'il 21, l'.»(i4. 

437 



438 THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OF HORSES AND PONIES. 

When true horses first made their appearance in America the cli- 
mate and the hmd connections between the Okl Workl and the New 
Avere very different from what they are to-da3\ One resnlt of these 
differences was that before the close of the Pliocene period — i. e., prior 
to the great Ice age — it Avas possil)le for American horses to find their 
way into Asia and thence into Enrope and Africa. One of the earlier 
immigrants (Equvs stenonh) has left its remains in the Pliocene 
de])()sits of Britain, France, Switzerland. Italy, and the north of 
Africa. While E. xtenonh was extending its range into Enrope and 
Africa, two others {E. sivalenfiis and E. iiamadiens) were finding 
their way into India, and yet other species were donbtless settling in 
eastern Europe and central Asia. 

It may hence be safely assumed that as Africa now contains several 
specie of zebras, Europe at the l>eginning of the Pleistocene period 
was inhabited by several species of horses. 

We know that before the beginning of the historic age horses had 
become extinct in North America, but we have not yet ascertained 
what was the fate of the equine species which reached, or were evolved 
in, the Old World before or during the great Ice age. It is believed 
by some paleontologists that the Indian species, E. sivalensit; and 
E. namafh'cns, became extinct, and that E. sienonh gave rise through 
one variety {E. rohustus) to the modern domestic breeds, and by 
another {E. Jigeris) to the Burchell group of zebras. E. sJ/u/Jc/isJ.'^, 
unlike E. stenonis^ but like the still earlier three-toed horse Hipparion 
and certain prehistoric South American species, was characterized 
by a depression in front of the orbit for a facial gland (probably 
similar to the scent gland of the stag), and usually by large first 
premolar (wolf) teeth in the upper jaw. In some recent horses 
having eastern blood in their veins there seems to be a vestige of the 
l)re()rl)ital depression, and in some of the horses of southeastern Asia 
(e. g., Java and Sulu ponies), as in some zebras (e. g., Grevy's zebra 
and a zebra of the Burchell type found near Lake Baringo), there 
are large functional first ])remolars. It is hence possible that lineal 
but somewhat modified descendants of E. Kiralenxi.s of the Indian 
Pliocene may still survive, and that E. sivalensiH was a lineal descend- 
ant of Hipparion. 

AVe are, however, more concerned with tlie ancestors of the domestic 
horses of Europe and North Africa than Avith oriental horses. 

From osseous remains already found we know horses Avere widely 
distributed over Europe during the Pleistocene period, and that thej^ 
were especially abundant in the south of France in post-Glacial times. 
It has not yet, hoAvever, been determined hoAv many species of horses 
inhabited Europe during and immediately after the Ice age, nor yet 
to Avhich of the pre-Glacial species prehistoric horses were genetically 
related. Bones and teeth from deposits and ca\'es in the south of 



THE MTTLTTPT.E ORKUN OF PIORSES AND PONTES. 439 

England scorn to indicate thai (liirin<i- the Pleistocene jxTiod several 
species of iiorses raniicd over the west of Europe. riie Pleistocene 
beds of Essex liave yielded bones and teeth of a lar<2;edieaded, heavily 
built liorse, which probably sometimes nieasni-ed more than 1 1 hands 
(:>(; inches) at the withers. Enmi the " eK'i)hant bed" at liriaiiton 
portions of a slenderdimbed horse hav(> been recovered, and Kent's 
Cave, neai- Torquay, has yielded numerous fra<?ments of two varieties 
or species which di tiered somewhat from the lOssex and Brighton 
species. The '* elephant-bed '" horse has hitherto been described as 
very small, but if one is to jiid^e by the bones in the British Museum 
it may very well have reached a lieight of 50 or even 52 inches (12* 
or i;^ hands). The Kent's Cave horses were probably from V.) to 14 
hands hioh. One in its build approached the P^ssex horse, the other 
the slender-limbed species of the "elephant bed" at Brio^hton. If 
there were two or more species in Pleistocene times in th(^ south of 
England (then part of the Continent), it is probable that yet other 
species inhabited south and middle Europe and the north of Africa. 

As already mentioned, horses were extremely abundant in tlie 
south of Erance in the not very remote post-Glacial period," Evi- 
dence of the existence of large herds w^e have at Solutre, where for 
a number of years there was an open-air Paheolithic encampment. 
Near the Sohitre encampment (which lies in the vicinity of the 
Saone, about midway between Chalons and Lyon), the bones of 
horses'' and other beasts of the chase were sufficiently abundant to 
form a sort of rampart around part of the settlement. It is difficult 
to say how many species of horses are represented at Solutre, but 
there seems no doul)t that the majority belonged to a stout, long- 
headed, but short-limbed animal, measuring about 54 inches (13.2 
hands) at the withers. Though of smaller size, the typical Solutre 
horse had nearly as large joints and hoofs as the Essex Pleistocene 
species. Like the Essex horse, it seems to have been specially adapted 
for living in low-lying, marshy ground in the vicinity of forests, 
and for feeding during part of the year on coarse grasses, shrubs, 
roots, and other hard substances, for the crushing of which large 
teeth, set in long powerful jaws, were indispensal)le. 

That lightly built as well as stout species existed in post-Glacial 
as in Pleistocene times is made evident by bones found in caves and 
by drawings and sculptures made by Palaeolithic hunters. Of the 
existence of two kinds of horses in post-dlacial times, practically 
identical with the stout and slender-limbed Pleistocene species, the 
cave of Reilhac, near Lyon, is especially eloquent. It is, however, 

An aooount of the preliistoric horses of Europe, by Dr. Kohert Miinro, will 
.be found in the Archipological .Tcmrnal, vol. lix. No. 2.'M. 

SToiissaint, of the Lyons Veterinary College, believes that at Solutn' there 
were fragments of at least lOO.oou horses, all of which had been used as food. 



440 



THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OF HORSES AND PONIES. 



mainly by the engravings on the walls of caves in the Dordogne, 
Gard, and other districts in the south of France that the existence 

in late Palaeolithic times of various kinds 
of light and heavy species of horses is 
made manifest. 

In the cave of La Mouthe, e. g., two 
horses are incised on the same panel — per- 
haps by the same hand — one of which (fig. 
1) has a very long head attached nearly 
at right angles to a short, thick neck, 
while the other has a small head, Arab- 
like ears, and a long, slender neck, such as 
we are wont to associate with race horses. 
In the Combarelles cave (Commune of 
Tayac), the walls of which for more than 
100 yards are crowded ^^•ith animal fig- 
ures, there are, in addition to 23 nearly 
full-sized engravings of horses, numerous 




Fig. 1.— Horse with a long head, 
from an engraving in the cave 
of La Mouthe. (Munro's "Pre- 
historic Horses." ) 



studies of equine heads. 
Some of the Combarelles 
horses decidedly differ 
from those of La Mouthe. 
There is, e. g., a large 
drawing of a heavily built 
horse (fig. 2) with a coarse 
head, an arched muzzle, 
a thick under lip, rounded 
quarters, and a tail with 
long hair up to the root. 
At another part of the cave 
there is what appears to be 
a natural-size engrraVinsr 




Fio. 2.— Engraving of a heavily built horse, from 
the Combarelles cave (x"s)- (Munro's "Prehistoric 
Horses.") 



(fig. 3) of a head whicli in outline is won- 
derfully suggestive of an Arab, and at yet 
another part of the cave a horse with a 
pony-like head is represented, behind which 
stands an animal with a head like that of 
a modern Shire horse. 

In addition to the tyiDes figured on the 
walls of caves, there are others carved on 
pieces of horn and other durable substances. 
The majority of the horses engraved on 
horn are characterized bj^ a very large 
coarse head, but a few (e. g., the horse from 

the Kesserloch cave near Schafl'hausen) arc remai'kal)le for the small 

size of the head, the fine muzzle, and small ears. 




Fig. 3.— Head of a horse with a 
profile like that of an Arab, 
from the Combarelles cave 
(i). (Munro's "Prehistoric 
Hor.ses.") 



THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OF HORSES AND PONIES. 441 

As alivady iiitiicated, the men of the early stone age have left us 
(h-awinirs of soiue four or live different kinds of horses, some with 
hirge heads and stout limbs, some with fine heads and slender Ihnbs, 
some with nearly straight croup and a well-set-on tail, others with 
rounded (puirters and the root of the tail far below the level of the 
croup. Drawings made at the present day will be of little use some 
centuries hence in providing an answer to the question. How many 
species of horses existed in Eurojje at the beginning of the twentieth 
century? They will confuse rather than enlighten future in(|uirers, 
because for several generations breeders of horses, like breeders of 
cattle and dogs, have with the help of selection and isolation succeeded 
in creating numerous artificial strains. Is there any reason for sup- 
posing the evidence afforded by the prehistoric drawings is more valu- 
able to us than recent drawings will be to our successors thousands of 
years hence, should they desire to ascertain how manv species of horses 
Britons possessed at the end of the nineteenth century ? That depends 
on whether in Paleolithic times the horse was domesticated in Europe. 
It is extremely probable that the men of the early stone age had 
now and again tame horses, just as nowadays we have at times tame 
zebras, but it is most unlikely that they had herds of horses which 
they systematically bred and reared as stockmen now breed and rear 
cattle. 

That the domestication of the horse as now^ understood was not 
attempted in Palaeolithic times may be inferred from the fact that the 
majority of the horses in the Solutre bone mounds were from five to 
seven years old. Had horses been bred for food, as we nowadays 
breed cattle, young individuals Avould have been most abundant at 
Solutre. 

If it is admitted that the engravings on the walls of caves and on 
pieces of horn fairly accurately represent animals which actually 
existed at the end of the ice age, and if it is also admitted that the 
creation of new varieties by artificial selection was never attempted 
until at the earliest the arrival of the Neoliths, it follows that in post- 
Glacial as in Pleistocene times there were sevei-al perfectly distinct 
wild species of horses in Europe. 

For some reason or other it has hitherto been very commonly 
assumed that, as in recent times the wild striped horses of South 
Africa — the quagga and zebras — have been gradually supplanted 
by occidental or oriental domesticated horses, the wild horses of 
Europe were gradually displaced by domesticated varieties intro- 
duced by the Neoliths. It seems to me quite unnecessary to assume 
that the indigenous varieties so long familiar to the Palaeolithic 
inhabitants were exterminated. 

The advent of the Neoliths, instead of implying the extermination 



442 THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OF HORSES AND PONIES. 

of indigenous varities. in nil pi-obability meant the introduction of 
yet other A'arieties. 

I ma}' here repeat that now, as throughout the nineteenth century, 
it is generally assumed that all the domestic breeds — small as well as 
large — have sprung from a single wild species. The great French 
naturalist Cuvier believed not only that all living horses belonged 
to one species (the Kqunx cahdlliiH of Linnteus), but also that there 
was no specific difference between living breeds and the fossil horses 
of the Pleistocene period. Professor Sanson, of the French National 
College of Agriculture, in his Traite de Zootechnie- (1901), assmning 
a single origin for domestic breeds, divides recent horses into tAvo 
groups — a long-headed and a short-headed group — each of which 
consists of several races, while Captain Ha^^es, in his recently pub- 
lished Points of the Horse (1904), says, " no breed of horses possesses 
any distinctive characteristic which serves to distinguish it from 
other breeds,"" and adds that '^ as a rule locality * * * ;jj^,| arti- 
ficial selection are the chief factors in the formation of breeds."" 
Elsewhere Captain Hayes states: "As far as I can learn, no attempt 
has been made to separate ponies from horses except on the purel}' 
artificial basis of height.'"' « Kven those who are prepared to admit 
that recent horses may have sprung from several Avild species allege 
that, owing to domestication, intercrossing, and artificial selection, 
it is no longer possible to indicate the distinguishing characters of 
the two or more wild species which took part in forming the present 
races and breeds. 

THE WILD HORSE {Eqiiiii^ cahdllii!^ prjevalskU). 

The wild hoi'se may be first considered. For many 3'ears the 
semiwild Tari)an of the Russian steppes was regarded as the nearest 
living relative of the w^ild ancestor of the domestic breeds, but in 
1881 the existence of a true wild horse was announced by the Russian 
naturalist Poh'^akov. This horse occurs in the vicinity of the Gobi 
Desert and the Great Altai Mountains, one variety living to the 
southeast, another to the west, and a third to the south of Kobdo. 
All three varieties are of a yellow-dun color, the southeastern (Zagan- 
Nor) form being especially characterized by a dark nuizzle, dark 
points, and a dark mane and tail; in the western (Urungu) variety 
the nnizzle is nearly white, the limbs are light down to the fetlocks, 
%ind the nuine and tail are of a reddish-brown tint, the southern 
(Altai) form being nearly intermediate in its coloration. The 
markings consist of a narrow dorsal band, faint indications of shoul- 
der sti'ipes, and indistinct bars in the region of the knees and hocks. 

a Points of the Horse, pp. 422^25. 



THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OF HORSES AND PONIES. 443 

In all three xarictics (he mane is short and npfiii'ht in th(^ antnnni, 
l)ut h)ni;' enonii'h in spring- to ni'ch to one side ol" the neck; in sunnner 
the uppei- two-thirds of the (h)ek of the tail carries short hair, the 
distal third lon<i- hair, which continues to ^row until it reaches the 
ground: in winter the uppi^r two-thirds of the tail carries hair from 
'2 to 4 inches in l(>n<>th. 'Vho hair of tlie body and limbs is short in 
sunnner, but under the jaw and o\er the o-rcater })art of the body 
and limbs it is from o to 4 inches in lent^'th in winter. 

The hoofs are narrow(M" and have loni>'ei- '' heels" than in the com- 
mon horse, but, as in the common hoi'se, each limb is pi'ovided with 
a chestnut and with an ei"i>ot, the Iiind chestnut (hock callosity) 
being very long and narrow. 

In the variety (fig. 1, })1. i) occurring in (he Al(ai south of Kobdo, 
probably the most primitive of the three, the liead is large and coarse, 
and, compared with the length of the body, longer than in any do- 
mestic breed. In a side view it is noticed that the forehead is promi- 
nent (bumpy), th(^ lower part of the face straight or slightly con- 
vex, the under li}) long, and that the head forms nearly a right angle 
with the short neck. The eyes are lateral in position, and appear 
unusually close to the ears owing to the great length of the space 
between the eye and the nostril. The ears are long and generally 
project obliquely outward (fig. 1, pi. i), as in many cart horses. The 
croup is nearly level, but the hocks are usually bent and turned in. 
Judging by the behavior during the last two years of the wnld horse 
in my possession, I am inclined to think his less remote ancestors, 
though in all probal)ility members of the steppe fauna, lived for a 
time (perhaps during the Ice age) in the vicinit}' of forests. As is 
the case with other gregarious animals, he strongly objects to be 
separated from his companions, and he also objects to have his 
movements circumscribed by fences. It has often been said '' nothing 
jumps better than a cart colt." The cart colt jumps because he 
has sprung from big-jointed, broad-hoofed, forest-haunting ances- 
tors whose existence often dejiended on their being able at a bound 
to clear fallen trees and othei" obstacles. The wild horse when shut 
up in a loose box by himself is very restless, and keeps reai-ing u]) 
against the door until set at liberty; if placed in a paddock away 
from his special comrades he generally succeeds in either scraml)ling 
over or breaking down the fence. 

The wild horse never encounters fences in (lu' (Jobi Desert, but, 
probably because he had forest-bred ancestors which had often to 
cross fallen trees, he endeavors without a moment's hesitation to 
clear all obstacles that come in his way, while true desert forms 
endeavor to break through them. 

It has been suggested that the wild horse of the Gobi Desert is 
not a true wild animal, but onl}" a domesticated breed that has re- 



444 THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OP HORSES AND PONIES. 

verted to the wild state." Against this view I may mention (1) that 
all the wild horses are of a yellow-dnn color, and that, though those 
to the west of Kobdo difl'er in tint from those to the east, the eastern 
and Avestern varieties seem to be connected by the less specialized 
variety to the south of Kobdo; (2) that travelers in Central Asia 
all agree in stating that the Mongolian ponies vary greatly in color — 
in a Cliinese hynm known as the " Emperor's Horses " as many as 
thirteen colors are referred to; (3) the descendants of the horses 
which escaped from the Spaniards in America after several centu- 
ries of freedom were of all sorts of colors; and (4) in horses which 
live in subarctic areas the hair at the root of the tail tends to increase 
so as to form a sort of tail lock, which when caked Avith snow pro- 
tects the hind (juurters during snoAvstorms; the complete absence of 
this tail lock — fairly Avell developed in one of my Mongolian 
ponies — is a very strong argument against the assumption that 
Prjevalsky's horse is nothing more than a domesticated breed that 
has rcA'erted to the Avild state. 

The Avild horse of the (xobi Desert is certainly the least specialized 
of all the horses living at the present day. In being of a yelloAv-dun 
color, in shedding annually the hair of the mane and the hair from 
tlie upper two-thirds of the tail, in having ergots and chestnuts on 
the hind as Avell as on the fore limbs, and in haA^ng canines and 
fairly large upper first premolars, Prjevalsky's horse is distinctly 
primeval. Only in the all but complete absence of stripes and in 
having very long poAverful jaAvs armed with relatiA^el}^ large teeth 
can the Gobi horse be said to be specialized. 

It is extremely probable that Prjevalsky's horse Avas familiar to the 
troglodytes Avho inhabited the Rhone Valley in prehistoric times. 
One might eA^en go further and say that in fig. 1, from an engraving 
in the caA'e of I^a JNIouthe, Ave haAe a fairly accurate representation 
of the head of Prjevalsky's horse. 

It is, of course, impossible to say which of the recent breeds are 
most intimately related to the Gobi horse. Though the head and 
ears are suggestiAe of some of the heavier occidental breeds, in its 
trunk and limbs it more closely resembles Mongolian and Korean 
horses, some of which, like Prjevalsky's horse, decidedly differ from 
Shires and Clydesdales in having a small girth oAving to a Avant of 
depth of body. To which domestic breeds the Avild horse has con- 
tributed characters Avhich will probably become more manifest after 
he has lived for some time under domestication. That heavy occi- 
dental breeds are not pure descendants of Prjevalsky's horse is sug- 

« It was formerly stated that the wild horse was simply a hybrid between a 
Mongolian pony and a kiang. I recently showed that a hybrid of this kind is 
quite different from the wild horse. See Proe. Roy. Soc. Edln., Vol. XXIV. 
part V, 190L'-3, and Nature, Vol. LXVIII, p. 271. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904— Ewart. 



Plate I. 




Fn; 1 p[;:in sscK EwART'S Yearling Wild Horse 
IN Summer Coat. 

From Haves's ••Points of the Horse." I'liotograph by 
M. II. HavL's. 




Fig. 2.-CELTic Pony, Showing Tail-lock in Midwinter. 

I'hotograiih by (i. \. Kwsirt. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Ewart. 



Plate II. 




Fig. 1.— a Typical Celtic Pon/ in Winter Coat. 




Fig. 2.— a Richly Striped Dark Yellow-dun Horse of the Norse Type. 

Photofjraplis by G. A. Ewiirt. 



THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OF HORSES AND PONIES. 445 

ircsted by the fact tliat cni-t horses, like zebras, have usually six 
luuibar vertebrae — the wihl horse of Asia has only five, like the wild 
asses. 

THE t'Ei/nc I'oNv {Equus eahallus celticiis). 

From the most primitive member of the Pjcjuidse family I shall turn 
to (he most specialized, viz, to what 1 have ventured to call tlie Celtic 
pony. 

In color and markings a typical Celtic pony only differs from the 
intermediate (Altai) variety of the wild horse in having a slightly 
darker muzzle, a less distinct light ring ai-ound the eye, and a more 
distinct dorsal band. The hair is similar in structure, but slightly 
longer in the Celtic ])ony during winter (fig. 2, pi. i), more espe- 
cially under the jaAv — where it forms the so-called beard — over the 
hind quarters, and on the legs. In the mane, tail, and callosities the 
Celtic pony is very different from the wild Gol)i horse. The mane is 
made up of a mesial poi'tion (nearly twice the width of the entire 
mane in an Arab) consisting of strong dark hair, and of two lateral 
portions the hair of which is lighter and finer and less circular in 
section than the hair of the central portion. The mane in the adult 
grows at the rate of from 9 to 10 inches per annum, and as only about 
one-third of the hair is shed annually, the mane reaches a consid- 
erable length. Owing to the great width of the middle portion the 
one-half of the mane generally falls to the right side, the other to the 
left. The front jiart of the mane hangs down over the face to form 
a forelock (fig. 2, pi. i). 

The most remarkable feature of the Celtic pony is the tail. To 
begin with, the dock is relatively very short — so short that one is apt 
to suppose it has been docked. The distal two-thirds of the dock 
carries long dark hairs, the majority of which continue to grow until 
(hey trail on the ground. During winter and spring the proximal 
third of the dock (about 4 inches) carries stiff hair from 3 to (3 inches 
in length, which forms what may be known as a caudal fringe or tail 
lock (fig. 2, pi. I and fig. 1, pi. ii). In the case of Arabs and other 
semitropical horses, the first 1 or 2 inches of the dock are usually cov- 
ered with short, fine hair like that over the hind quarters, but in the 
Celtic pony fine, wiry hairs from 4 to 5 inches in length extend right 
up to the root of the dock under cover of the body hair of the croup. 
The most distal hairs of the tail lock overlap, but are quite distinct 
from, the long ])ersistent hairs carried by the lower two-thirds of the 
dock. The hair in the center of the fringe, of the same color as the 
dorsal band (fig. 1. pi. ii), projects obliquely backward; the hair at 
the sides is light in color and i)rojects obliquely outward. The pres- 
"ence of this very remarkable l)unch of hair at the root of the tail was 
quite incomprehensible until I noticed what happened during a snow- 



446 THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OF HORSES AND PONIES. 

storm. The monieiit the storm set in the jjoiiy orientated herself so 
that the snow aahs driven against her hind quarters. In a few min- 
utes the lock of liair was spread out to form a disk, to which the snow 
adhered, and thus i)rovided a shiekl which effectually prevented the 
flakes finding their way around the root of the tail, where the}^ would 
have soon melted and effectively chilled the thinl}^ clad inner surface 
of the thighs. Provided Avith a caudal shield, long, thick hair over the 
hind quarters and back, and a thick mane covering both sides of the 
neck and protecting the small ears, a Celtic pony is practically snow 
proof. AVhile the storm lasted the pony in question stood perfectly 
still, with her head somewhat lowered, save when she shifted her posi- 
tion as the wind veered from northwest to north. Very different was 
the behaA'ior of an Arab and a thoroughbred Highland colt close by. 
After trj'ing various attitudes the Arab, carrying her head low and to 
one side, made a rush for the shelter of an adjacent wood; the half- 
bred colt — prevented by her Celtic blood from running away — tried 
in vain one position after another, and long before the storm ceased 
looked thoroughly miserable and began to shiver as if chilled to the 
bone. It hence follows that the tail lock is not, as I at first assumed, 
an inheritance from a primitive ancestor akin to the wild horse, but 
a highly specialized structure which eminently adapts the Celtic pony 
for a subarctic environment. I need hardly say the caudal fringe is 
not a product of artifical selection, for even in Iceland, where it reaches 
its maximum development, neither its existence nor its use has, so far 
as I can gather, ever been referred to. It need onl}' be added that to 
maintain a tail lock of this kind it is necessary that the short, wiry 
hairs of which it consists must be renewed once a year. 

In separating asses and zebras from horses, stress has hitherto 
been laid on the difference in the mane and tail, and especially on 
the absence of hind chestnuts. As already jiointed out, the wild 
horse during sunnner in its mane and tail agrees with asses and 
zebras. The mane and tail are hence no longer of specific impor- 
tance. This is also true of tiie chestnuts, for in the Celtic pony, 
as in asses and zebras, the hind chestnuts (hock callosities) are com- 
pletely absent. In the wild horsc'. as in the vast majority of heavy 
and cross-bred horses, the hind chestnuts reach a considerable size, 
but in asses and zebras and the Celtic pony I have failed to find any 
ludiments of hind chestnuts, either before or after birth. Further, 
in (he Celtic pony the front chestnuts are small, and, still more 
remarkable, the fetlock callosities (ergots) have entirely vanished; 
in asses and ze])ras the ergots are always present, and in some cases 
still play the ])ai-t of ])ads. The Celtic pony is hence not only more 
specialized — further removed from the primitive type — -in its mane 
and tail, but also in having lost the fetlock pads (ergots) and the 
hock (heel) callosities. Nature makes little effort to get rid of use- 



THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OF HORSES AND PONTES. 447 

less A'osticres, so long as tlicv are liannless. When an ergot or a 
chestnut is accidentally torn oH' there is considerable loss of blood. 
It is conceivable that in the remote past hoi'ses which happened to 
be born without ergots proved better adapted for a life in the sub- 
arctic regions — Avere less likely to sufl'er from injury when moving 
through frozen snoA\' and to become a prey to wolves — and hence 
had a better chance of surviving and leaving descendants," 

There is also evidence of specialization in the teeth of the Celtic 
pony. In many horses — e. g., the horses of southeastern Asia — the 
canines and u])per first ])renK)lars (wolf teeth) are well developed, 
but in the Celtic pony the first premolars seem to be invariably 
absent, while the canines are either absent or very minute, even in 
old males. In all the typical Celtic ponies I have seen the head is 
small, Arab like in outline, and well put on to a relatively long neck; 
the muzzle is fine and slightly arclied, the under lip short and well 
molded, the nostrils are Avide, and the eyes on a level with the fore- 
head, while the ears are short, white tipped, and carried as a rule in 
an upright position. Owing to the shortness of the jaws the pro- 
portion of the head to the body is as 1 to '2.50 instead of 1 to 2.20, 
as in the wild horse. 

Except in size I have been unable to discover any diiference be- 
tween the skeleton and teeth of the Celtic pony and those of the small 
horse of the " elephant bed '' of the Brighton Pleistocence. In the 
most northern part of Iceland, where the few pure specimens of the 
Celtic pony survive, only a height of 12 hands (48 inches) is 
reached. Under more favorable conditions the height would prob- 
ably be 50 or 52 inches, the size of some of the " elephant bed " 
horses and of the smaller variety of the desert-bred Arab, to which 
the small, slender-limbed occidental pony closely approximates. 

In temperament the Celtic pony is very different from the wild 
horse. Captain Hayes had no difficulty in handling the wild horse 
in my possession, but from first to last, though giving evidence of 
marked intelligence, it Avas absolutely irresponsive and spiritless. 
A Celtic pony, on the other hand, rapidly learns what the trainer 
wishes and responds with alacrity. In its keenness and speed, stay- 
ing power and agility, a pure Celtic pony is as different from an 
ordinary heavy-headed Iceland pony (i. e., a dwarf horse) as an 
Arab is from a cart horse. 

The question may now be asked, is my most typical Celtic pony a 
pure or nearl}' pure specimen of a once widely distributed wild 
species, or is it at most an approximation to an ideal type living 

o If, as it seems likely, the absence of ergots ( i. e., of spurs in the center of 
the footlocks) is an advantage in arid regions, such as the Libyan Plateau, 
we can understand their frequent absence in Barbs and Arabs. 



448 THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OP HORSES AND PONIES. 

representatives of which no longer exist? I regard the pony de- 
scribed above as an almost pure representative of a once widel}^ dis- 
tributed Avild species, for the following reasons: (1) In its color and 
markings it is almost identical with Prjevalsky's horse, and not 
unlike some of the varieties of the wild Asiatic ass. (2) The hind 
chestnuts and all four ergots are completely absent. (3) The tail lock 
is perfectly adapted for its work — were the hairs shorter the fringe 
would be ineffective, were they longer the snow shield, if ever formed, 
would rapidly disintergate. (4) The first premolars are completely 
absent, and only one of the four canines is represented, and that only 
by a minute peg which barely projects beyond the gum. (5) The 
pony in question proved sterile w^th stallions belonging to five dif- 
ferent breeds, as well as with a Burchell zebra and a kiang; but she 
at once bred when mated with a yellow-dun Connemara-Welsh pony, 
which closely approximates to the Celtic type. (6) Ponies having 
the more striking Celtic characteristics occur in isolated and outlying 
areas, where one would expect to find remnants of an ancient highlj' 
specialized species which perchance reached the Old World from the 
New in pre-Glacial times or during warm inter-Glacial periods — in, 
e. g., Iceland (which has been almost completel}^ isolated since the 
twelfth or thirteenth century), the Faroe Islands, Shetland, the 
Hebrides, the west of Ireland, and Finland. 

Flat-nosed variety of the Celtic pony. — In the Faroes, the Hebrides, 
and in Shetland there are slender-limbed ponies which, except in 
their color and the shape of the head, and in some cases the form of 
the hind quarters, closely agree with my t3'pical Celtic pony. In 
these ponies the depression below the eyes is more pronounced, and 
extends well-nigh to the muzzle, which is nearly flat. The nostrils 
look downward, and the space between them, instead of being arched, 
as in the Iceland specimen, is flat, and forms nearly a right angle 
with the face. 

Some of these flat-nosed ponies are of a foxy red color, others are 
dark brown. According to Landt, the majority of the Faroe ponies 
a century ago were foxy red — the St. Kilda ponies, 18 in all, seen by 
Martin at the end of the seventeenth century, were also of a red 
color — the others were with few exceptions dark. A foxy red Faroe 
pouy in my possession has neither dorsal band nor bars on the leg, 
l)ut it has a light mane and tail, a nearly straight croup, and well 
formed hind quarters. All the other foxy red Faroe ponies I have 
seen or heard of closely resemble the one in my collection. 

The dark Faroe ponies, like the dark Barra ponies, only differ from 
the foxy red ponies in not having in every case a straight croup and 
a high set -on tail, while the dark variety of the Celtic pony found in 
Shetland is in build more like the typical Iceland specimens than the 
Faroe variety. 



THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OF HORSES AND PONIES. 449 

Herodotus (v, q.) says of the horses of the Sigynnsc — the only tribe 
lie know the iiiuiie of across the Danube — they " are shajijj^y all over 
the hod}', to 5 finders in depth of hair; they are small, llat-nosed, and 
unable to carry men ; but when yoked to chariots they arc very fleet, 
therefore the natives drive chariots." This description, so far as it 
iroes, is singularly accurate of the foxy red Faroe ponies, even to 
their being very fleet "when yoked to chariots.'' It is extremely 
probable that in the red colored Faroe ponies we have a remnant of a 
very old and once widely distributed variety, the orign of which is 
never likely to be revealed. I'or some unaccountable reason the silver 
mane and tail are as a rule either handed on untarnished to cross-bred 
oll'spring or they reappear in the second or one of the subsequent 
generations. It is hence possible that various large breeds — such as 
the Suffolk Punch, the white-maned horses of the Hebrides and of the 
north and west of Ireland, certain silver-maned Hungarian and 
Russian races, not to mention Chittabob and other English thorough- 
breds — have all inherited their light manes and tails from an ancient 
foxy red variety of the Celtic pony. 

The origin of the dark-brown variety of the Celtic pony is also 
wrapped in mystery. These dark-brown ponies may represent 
another old variety from which the Exmoors have sprung — a variety 
which has contributed the tan-colored muzzle and the ring round 
the eye so characteristic of many of the best Highland and Island gar- 
rons. One of these dark-brown ponies, brought from Barra as a 2- 
year-old, looked for a time like a miniature thoroughbred. Now as a 
3-year-old it might pass for one of the oldest and best type of the dark 
Fseroe ponies. Neither the dark nor the red Faroe ponies ever 
possess all the Celtic characteristics ; at the most they are three parts 
pure, and I may add they cross freely with Nor^vegian and other 
breeds, generally transmitting such Celtic " points "" as they possess 
to their mixed offspring." It is worthy of note that in some of the 
small-headed horses engraved in the Combarelles and other caves 
inhabited in Palfeolithic times the croup is stiaight and the tail set 
on high, as in many Arabs; in others the tail, instead of being in a 
line with the croup, looks as if it had been an afterthought — an 
appendage inserted fairly well up in some cases, lower down in 
others, as is the case in many large and small horses with rounded 
quarters. In the engravings showing a small-headed horse with a 
straight croup we seem to have the foxy-red variety represented; in 
those Avith somewhat drooping quarters w^e may have a representation 
of the dark-brown variety of the Celtic pony. 

If one may judge from its specialization and from its being now 
adapted for sub-Arctic conditions, the Celtic pony belongs to a 



a See Marshall and Annandale. Proc. Cam. Phil. Soc, Vol. XII, Pt. IIV. 
SM 1901 29 



450 THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OF HORSES AND PONIES. 

variety which at a veiy remote period branched off from the main 
stem and possibly reached Europe and north Africa long before 
the advent of the Neoliths, to become the progenitors not only of 
occidental, but also of African races." 

As might have been anticipated, Celtic characters can often be 
identified in British and other occidental breeds. Many thorough- 
breds, which are an unequal blend of Barbs and of Arabs in which 
eastern races often prevail, and of light and heavy occidental vari- 
eties, show traces of Celtic ancestors. Many small thoroughbreds 
"• ride like a pony," or have a pony head, or pony legs, some even want 
the ergots or hind chestnuts, or the tail has a vestige of a fringe, or 
there is the gait and temperament, alertness, and intelligence of the 
pony. Many of the Highland garrons have pony characteristics, 
and this is also true of all the old mountain and moorland breeds, 
more especially of the mealy-nosed Exmoor ponies and some of the 
better bred dun-colored Connemaras. 

Even in Clydesdales of the older type pony characters sometimes 
surge to the surface, while in crossbred animals they sometimes pre- 
dominate. Recently I heard of a powerful, active l7-hand horse, 
with a wonderful reputation for speed, strength, and staying power, 
in which the hiud chestnuts, greatly to the surprise of the owner, 
were completely absent. On making inquiries as to the pedigree of 
this hoi'se T ascertained he was bred in Caithness and was the grand- 
son of a Highland pony. 

THE NORSE HORSE {Eqifus cahallus typicus). 

During prehistoric times in certain parts of Europe a tundra fauna 
gave place to a steppe fauna, which later was succeeded by a forest 
fauna. Evidence of this succession we especially have in the rock 
shelter at Schweizersbild, near Schaffhansen. In the lower deposits 
the remains of the reindeer, musk ox, variable hare, Arctic fox, and 
other tundra forms occurred. Nearer the surface were relics of ham- 
sters, the woolly rhinoceros, kiang, horse, and other denizens of the 
steppes; and on still higher layers the bones of the beaver, hare, and 

oThat the Celtic pony is akin to the smaller high-caste Arabs has already 
l-een hinted. The only fundamental difference, apart from the coat, main, and 
tail, between many small Arabs and a Celtic pony is in the ears; in the Arab 
they are long and often incnrved at the i)oints. The long ears of the Arab may 
either be due to eastern blood of the Kattiawar kind or to long ears being an 
advantage to the wild ancestors that frequented the great Libyan plateau, as 
long ears are of advantage to the mountain zebra and to the kangaroo of the 
Australian bush. About the origin of the large varieties of Arabs provided with 
ergots, with hind chestnuts like those of Prjevalsky's horse, a somewhat long 
head, a tendency to a Roman nose, large joints, and a circumference of 7i to 8 
inches below the knee, I am unable to offer an opinion. 



THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OF HORSES AND PONIES. 451 

sqiiinvl. (lu* l):ulir(>i\ pine iiuirtin, niid wild boar, (lir stajr, rot'decr, 
unis, horse, and other recoj^nizod iiuMubors of a triio forest fauna. 

In the case of the P2qui(hv it is often extremely dinicult to deternrmc 
to which species any given bones belong, and hence it is impossible to 
state definitely that the horses found along with the hamsters and 
other steppe forms essentially diii'ered from those Avhich were con- 
temporaries of the stag and wild boar and other typical forest forms. 
It may. however, be assumed that even in post-Glacial times the 
majority of the inhabitants of the steppes would when mature be 
quite or nearly whole colored, while frequenters of the forests would 
as often be either striped or spotted; that, e. g., the horse which fre- 
quented the Khine valley along with the kiang and woolly rhinoceros 
would resemble the wild horse {E. c. prjevalskii) which, with the 
kiang, now lives in the vicinity of the Great Altai Mountains, while 
the horse which at a subsequent period was a contemporary of the 
Avild boar, stag, and roedeer would be more or less richly striped, and 
in its limbs and general conformation adapted for a life in or near 
forests. 

That there is some ground for this assumption will, I think, be 
admitted when due consideration is given to results obtained by cross- 
ing various kinds of horses Avith a Burchell zebra. ^Y[len ponies of 
the Celtic type — i. e., ponies which in their color are identical with 
Prjevalsky's horse, almost certainly the lineal descendant of the 
steppe horse of PahTolithic times— are crossed with a male Burchell 
zebra, hybrids are obtained which, while in build strongly suggesting 
a Burchell zebra, are as profusely striped as the great zebra of Soma- 
liland, and have at least i\\c times as many transverse stripes across 
the trunk as occur in their zebra sire. When, hoAvever, pony mares of 
the Norwegian type are crossed with a Burchell zebra the hybrids 
resemble in make their Norse dams, and in their markings closely 
approximate the common or mountain zebra. The explanation of 
these remarkable differences seems to be that in the case of the Celtic 
pony hybrids the remote (Grevy like) ancestors of the Burchell zebra 
control the development and determine the plan of the decoration, 
while in the case of the Norse pony hybi'ids the remote striped-horse 
ancestors contribute the more obvious characters— the Norse ponies 
having more influence in determining the plan of striping than the 
highly specialized Celtic ponies, from which stripes had probably all 
l)ut completely disappeared countless generations before they began 
to fade on the horses which belonged to the forest fauna. 

It is probable that the highly si)ecialized Celtic pony, as well as 
the primitive Gol)i wild horse, belong to the steppe fauna, and it is 
equally probable that the yellow-dun (Fjord) horse, in which a 
striped coat may be said to be latent, belongs to the forest fauna. If 
this be admitted, it follows that the environment of the Norse race has 



452 THE MULTIPLE OKIGIN OF HORSES AND PONIES. 

hecMi for untold ages so different from that of the Celtic i)ony and the 
wild horse that it centuries ago acquired the rank of a distinct species, 
or at least a well-marked natural variety. 

The question now arises: Does there exist in any of the outlying 
parts of the world (where artificial selection has been made use of to 
conserve old rather than to create new types) horses of a red rather 
than of a yellow-dun color — luc^re like the red deer than the kiang — 
horses with a sufficient number of imperfect stripes on the body and 
bars on the legs to indicate descent from ancestors decorated after the 
manner of the mountain zebra ? As is now generally known, dun- 
colored horses with remnai>ts of a striped coat now and again make 
their appearance in all parts of both the old and new worlds. It is 
also a matter of common knowledge that dark yellow-dun horses, 
sometimes with fragments of nmuerous stripes, are always to be met 
Avith in, among other places, Mongolia, Tibet, the northwest provinces 
of India (especially in the State of Kattiawar), and in the northwest 
of Europe, more especially in Norway, the Highlands and islands of 
Scotland, and in Iceland. With the exception of the Kattiawars, 
which, probably as the result of rigid selection, stand apart, all the 
others have many points in common — ^some of the dun Mongol ponies 
agreeing closely with Norwegians; but they all — the Kattiawars more 
than the rest— decidedly differ from E. v. prjeimlskii^ the wild horse 
of the Great Altai IMoimtains, and from typical specimens of the light 
yellow-dun Celtic pony. 

The most richly strii3ed horses I have hitherto come across occur 
in the nortliAvest of Scotland. One of these recently examined is 
alike in make, color, and markings so unique, and looks so little 
modified by domestication and artificial selection, that it must, I 
think, be considered as a fairly typical specimen of a once wild 
species. The history of the yellow-dun striped race, to which the 
specimen alluded to belongs, has not yet been written, but there is 
little doubt that it was introduced into Scotland from Scandinavia 
about the end of the eleventh or beginning of the twelfth century. 
As this yellow-dun striped race may A^ery well have been familiar to 
Linnanis, it may, I think, be taken as the type of the large occidental 
breeds, and known as the Equus cahallus typicus. A typical speci- 
men of the Norse variety is of a dark yellow-dun color, with black 
" points " and a nearly black mane and tail. The mane is long aiid 
heavy and tends to fall to ])oth sides of the neck, as in the Celtic 
pony. Oidy a few liaii-s at the root of the tail are shed in summer, 
and there i« no attempt to form a tail lock in winter, Avhile the fet- 
locks, never very long, are limited to the region of the ergots. The 
forehead is decorated with narroAv stripes, which in their number 
and arrangement agree more with the mountain than with the true 
Burchell zebra. A broad dorsal band extends alone: the back to lose 



THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OF HORSES AND PONIES. 453 

itself ill tlif (nil: (here arc stripes on (he neck and faint stripes ex- 
tend a short dis(aii('e from (he dorsal band across the hody, as in the 
British Mnseuin ({iia«ga, while the legs, es[)e('ially in the region of the 
"knees" and hocks, are marked by distinct bars. 

The ears ara short and are carried in a nearly upright posilion; 
(he forehead (which is not particularly wide), in having two ridges 
extending upward from the prominent eyes to meet under the fore- 
lock, differs greatly from the " bumpy " forehead of Prjevalsky's 
horse and the flat forehead of the Celtic pony. The space between 
(he orbit and the nostril is relatively longer than in the Celtic pony, 
but shor(er (ban in Prjevalsky's horse. The eyes project beyond the 
level of (he forehead. In the Celtic pony the eyes are large and 
adapted for a wide range; in the wild horse they are some distance 
from the front of the head ; in the Norse horse thev are small and 
look downward rather than forward. The outline of the face be- 
comes convex above the muzzle and ends in a somewhat long upper 
lip, adapted, like the upper lip in the giratfe, for feeding on leaves 
and twigs. In the neck and shoulders, trunk and limbs, the Norse 
variety may be said to resemble a small cart horse of the Suffolk type. 

Compared with the wild horse, the withers are lower and the hind 
quarters more rounded, and the tail springs more abruptly and at a 
lower level, and hence fails to convey the impression that it is a 
(hrect continuation of the trunk. The dock is relatively longer than 
in the Celtic pony, but shorter than in the wild horse. The limbs are 
short, but the joints are large and the hoofs fairly broad; hence in a 
side view of the foreleg a considerable increase is noticed as the 
thick fetlock joint is reached. 

It will be evident from Avhat has been said that the Norse horse 
differs chiefly from the Avild Gobi horse in being of a darker dun 
color, in being far more richh^ striped, in the shape of the head, size 
of the ears, position of the eyes, and also in the muzzle, mane, tail, 
hind quarters, joints, and hoofs. From the Celtic pony the Norse 
horse also differs in the color and markings; but it especially differs 
in the tail and in the greater proportional length of the distance be- 
tween the eye and the nostril, and in having a complete set of ergots 
and chestnuts. It is inconceivable that (he Norse variety could revert 
to the Prjevalsky horse type, or be regarded as an offshoot from the 
Celtic pou}'. 

The question may now be asked, Is there any evidence that the 
Pala^oliths of the south of Europe were familiar with horses of the 
Norse type ? Figure 2, plate ii, gives an imperfect idea of a specimen 
of the Norse race from the west of Ross-shire. If this figure of a 
horse still living is compared with figure 2, which faithfully repro- 
duces an engraving made thousands of years ago in the Combarelles 



454 THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OF HORSES AND PONIES. 

cave by one of the artist hunters of the early stone age, it will, I 
think, be admitted the Norse horse probably belongs to a very ancient 
race. 

I need only add that I regard the Xorse race as the foundation of 
what in the Highlands are known as " garrons," Horses of this type 
may very well have been originally obtained by blending the old 
indigenous yellow-dun striped race with Flemish and French breeds 
imported direct from the Continent or introduced from England 
during the middle ages. Further, it is extremely probable that the 
Norse race took part in forming the small active Clydesdales of a 
former generation. 

OTHER OCCIDENTAL HORSES. 

In addition to Oriental and African varieties, which doubtless 
include several wild species amongst their ancestors, there are two 
or more Occidental varieties which in various ways differ from the 
Norse and Celtic races and from Prjevalsky's horse. 

One of the latter races include long, low, heavily built animals 
with unusually long heads; another consists of short-bodied animals 
with a large head and a pronounced Roman nose. 

The long-headed A^ariety which occurs in the Hebrides and the 
Central Highlands reminds one of the horses engraved during the 
stone age on a piece of reindeer horn. In one specimen of this 
variety met with in Perthshire the profile is straight, and the dis- 
tance from the orbit to the nostril is 13 inches, i. e., 2 inches more 
than in a member of the Norse breed of a like size, and 4 inches 
longer than in a 14-hands Connemara pony allied to the Celtic race. 
Some of these long-headed forms with a straight profile and a well- 
molded muzzle resemble the horses of the Parthenon. 

Horses with a pronounced Eoman nose also occur in the western 
islands and Highlands of Scotland, and in Ireland, Austria, America, 
and other parts of the world into which breeds were introduced from 
Spain. One of this Roman-nosed type, of a yellow-dun color, met 
with in the Outer Hebrides, was especially interesting. It very 
decidedly differed from members of the Norse race in the same dis- 
trict, but, on the other hand, it agreed in the outline of the head with 
some of the engravings in the Dordogne caves. It is hence conceiv- 
able that the Roman-nosed variety (from which the modern Shire 
breed may be an offshoot) is a very old one— a vai-iety which was 
firmly established centuries before domesticated breeds first made 
their appearance in Europe. 



THE MULTIPLE ORIGIN OF HORSES AND PONTES. 455 



SUMMARY, 



I have oiuloavorod to indicate that in [)()st-(Jhi('ial as in pre-CJlacial 
times there were several distinct species ol' horses, and thai it is 
extremely prol)al)le some of the prehistoric species and varieties have 
persisted almost nnaltered to the present da}^ I have shortly described 
(hi-ee distinct kinds of living horses, viz, the wild horse of the Gobi 
Desert {E. r. prejeraJsl'ii) ; the Celtic pony, which, though no longer 
wild, may be known as the E. e. eclticKs; and the Norse horse, which 
may very well stand as the type of one of the large Occidental breeds, 
and be known as E. c. fj/picus. I have also pointed out that in addi- 
(ion to these three very distinct tyi)es — -two at least of which have 
taken part in forming (piite a numbei- of oui- British breeds — we have 
a longdieaded, heavily built variety with a straight profile, and a 
long-headed, heavily built variety with a more or less pronounced 
Roman nose. I have also indicated that in addition to several Occi- 
dental varieties there are several African and Oriental varieties, and 
1 might have added that, in so far as the English thoroughbred is a 
mixture of African and Oriental varieties and of Occidental light 
and heavy varieties, it might be cited as an excellent example of a 
l)reed which includes amongst its ancestors several wild species — a 
l)reed which has had a multiple origin. 



EGYPTIAN AND AKABIAN HORSES." 



Bv E. Pbisse u'Avennes. 



I. — Egyptian Horses. 

Everyone knows that in spite of its admirable qualities the thor- 
oug-hbred Arabian steed is rarel}^ to be found on our stock farms. 
Althouiih many people well qualified to speak have written at length 
upon the Arabian horses, there still remains a good deal to be said. 
But amidst the absorbing interest attached to the breeding and rais- 
ing of this noble animal we should not allow ourselves to forget the 
Egyptian horse. 

There has been much discussion as to the native land of tlie horse; 
but no one has yet been able to prove with any degree of certainty 
to what country we are indebted for this beautiful and useful quad- 
ruped. Some writers, influenced no doubt by the renown of the civ- 
ilization of ancient Egypt and struck by the military scenes sculp- 
tured or painted on palaces — as at Thebes and Karnak— have 
advanced the theory that the horse had its origin in the valley of the 
Nile and was propagated throughout the Old World by the conquests 
of the Pharaohs. 

This assertion, allowed to go unchallenged and almost without 
criticism, is refuted by every bit of evidence the Egyptian monu- 
ments can furnish. 

The history of the Egyptian people divides itself into three great 
periods. The first is that of the primitive monarchy, from the 
founder Menes to the extinction of the kings of the twelfth dynasty, 
three thousand, seven hundred and three years before the Christian 
era. This is the epoch of the invasion of the shepherds or hyksos.^ 

The dominion of the Asiatic conquerors over Egypt forms the 
second period. Their expulsion, about 1822 B. C, opened a new era 
of ])rosperity under the Pharaohs of the eighteenth dynasty and 
marks the beginning of the third period. 

On the monuments of the first of these periods, such as the hypogea 
of Memphis, Beni-Hassen, Syout, and Koum-el-Ahmar, the army is 

a Translated, by permission, from Cosmos, Paris, Apr. 2, 1904. Revised by 
the author. 

SHyksos signifies "shepherd kings;" " hyk " in the sacred language means 
king, and " sos " in the vulgar idiom stands for shepherd. 

457 



458 EGYPTIAN AND ARABIAN HORSES. 

shown to be iiuule up entiivly of I'oot soldiers and no trace of any 
bas-relief or painting representing horses, cavalr}^, or war chariots 
is to be found on these monuments. This tends very strongly to make 
one believe that the horse was not known to the Egyptians before the 
close of the twelfth dynasty, after the campaigns of Osortassin in 
Asia. Without doubt it Avas with the invading shepherds that the 
horse first made its ai)i)earance and became naturalized in the valley 
of the Nile. 

A searching study of these Pharonic palaces enables us to state 
positively that there is not a single representation of a horse on any of 
the Egyptian edifices erected before the invasion of the Ilyksos. 
Only after the overthrow, and more generally after the expulsion of 
these Asiatic conquerors, do we find depicted on the p]gyptian monu- 
ments military scenes in which horses and war chariots play a con- 
siderable part in determining the great changes in the tactics of the 
Egyptian army. Moreover, the ancient historians, like Herodotus, 
Diodorus Siculus, and Strabo, are ummimous in omitting any mention 
of the appearance of this nol)le animal prior to the epoch of the 
Hyksos invasion. 

Had the horse been indigenous to the valley of the Nile the early 
Egyptians, who were accustomed to deify the more remarkable ani- 
mals and plants of their country, Avould certainly not have neglected 
to give to one of their gods the head of the hardy and spirited courser 
who shared with man the dangers of the battlefield. 

If they did not raise altars to him, as they did to so many sacred 
beasts, it is only because they held in abhorrence the people to whom 
the introduction of the beautiful animal was due. 

Finally, if the first Egyptians did not institute sacrifices of horses, 
like the assouame' d' ha « of the Hindoos, it was because the flesh was 
tabooed on account of the inveterate hatred that the customs of the 
Hyksos had left among the earlier inhabitants of the land. Never- 
theless, the Egyptians esteemed the horse too highly to employ him in 
agriculture, and never, except in one little bas-relief on the temple of 
Khons '' at Karnak, do we find horses harnessed to a plow. 

After the expulsion of the Ilyksos, about two thousand two lumdred 
years before the Christian era, the p]gyptians began to give nmch 
attention to the equine race, and the care they lavished upon their 
breeding soon resulted in a great numerical increase. 

"The sacrifice of the horse, assouame' d' ha, is one of the oldest rites men- 
tioned in tlie Hindoo iioolcs. It was considered very efficacious and always had 
a place in tlie lionoring of the Hindoo trinity. 

In some other sacrifices — Ivnown as tlie balidava — the Hindoos likewise offered 
horses, but instead of burning? the flesh on the altar, they presented it raw to 
the gods. 

b See, in any of the principal libraries. Monuments Egyptiens, by Prisse 
d'Aveunes, large folio, Paris, 1847, pis, 35, figs. 2. 



EGYPTIAN AND ARABIAN HORSES. 459 

It looks as though the aiu-UMit lOgyptians oarly realized (he bene- 
ficial ett'ects of crossbreeding, for among the conquered in-oples who 
paid tribute to Thoutnies III, of the XVIII dynasty, one thousand 
eight hundred and twenty-two years before the Christian era, came 
the envoys of an Adriatic race— probably Mesopotamia— who brought 
'• horses," a chariot, etc. These imported animals were without doubt 
intended for the improA^Miient of the Kgyplian race. 

Judging from the bas-reliefs and paintings, the Egyi)tian horses 
were tall, like the Nica^an horses of the plains of Media described by 
Herodotus. They had slender tapering necks, well-rounded chest 
and shoulders, high withers, long clean-cut legs, and long and i)lenti- 
ful tails. The colors in Avhich they are generally represented on the 
monuments of the Nile Valley indicate that white, bright bay, and 
piebald were the common colorings. These are, in brief, the details 
furnished us by the Egyptian monuments of the time of the Pha- 
raohs; the two accompanying figures give an exact idea of the curious 
old representations. 

This vigorous species is still preserved in the upper valley of the 
Nile and is sometimes even found in Egypt where it is known as the 
Donkolawi; that is to say, a native of the province of Donkola in 
Nubia." 

These Donkolain horses, which do not, we are told, thrive in cold 
climates, are tall— 5i or G feet in height— black, bright bay, or pie- 
bald ; the head is long and bushy, of the type common to the cows and 
sheep of this country ; the face is quite attractive and intelligent, the 
shoulders Avell chiseled and round rather than square, the withers 
high, the flanks large, the chest, as a rule, full and muscular, the legs 
long and inclined to slimness, with white stockings on two or four 
feet. 

The Donkolain is deliberate in starting and must be put into his 
paces gradually ; then he has a brillant action, with movements agile, 
nervous, and elastic. He is very steady, can stand a great deal of 
fatigue, and shows much docility and affection for man. 

However, the remarkable vigor which characterizes this horse in 
his native country is lost if he remains for any length of time in 
Lower Egypt. This degeneration, for which none can account, is so 
evident that the Egyptian Government, after the organization of its 
cavalry corps, was obliged to throw out of service all the Nubian 
horses in its ranks. 

The crossing of the Donkolawi with Nedjedian mares, as tried at 
the Choubra stud near Cairo, produced very beautiful animals of very 
little value. This experiment, made probably without forethought, 
care, or sanitary precaution, could hardly be expected to give very 

a King Solomon supplied himself with horses from the rich studs of Egypt. 



460 EGYPTIAN AND ARABIAN HORSES. 

satisfactory results, and should not lead to the rejection of the Donk- 
olain horse. Moreover, it is hardly to be expected that the best 
results can be achieved in the first generation, but rather by dint of 
continual interbreeding. 

At present, as a matter of fact, the Egyptian horse is not a very 
distinct species; they have been bred so at random that they do not 
retain any of the characteristic forms or traits which would serve to 
distinguish them permanently. 

The modern P^gyptian horse is below the medium size, but is 
stocky and well filled out. His head is long, square, and ponderous, 
his large ears are as a rule awkwardly placed, his eyes are little but 
expressive, his nose is sloped off sharply and his nostrils flattened. 
He has a full chest between a pair of heavy shoulders, ^\hich are 
ordinarily square rather than rounded. His withers are not very 
prominent. The rump is deeply cleft, the stomach large, the hams 
and knees strong, the feet broad, the mane and tail coarse and 
abundant. 

Not infrequently these horses have their front legs disproportion- 
ately short ; their bodies are not always long enough for symmetry ; 
and the head and hind quarters often resemble those of a mule. These 
faults, however, are traceable to the Syrian type, a breed which has 
contributed much to the composition of the modern Egyptian. 
Bright bay, chestnut, and a dirty gray are the colors usually found; 
white is not at all common, and, being the color of princes, is very 
much sought after ; black is the rarest of all. 

The Egyptian horse is gentle, docile, and generally quite lively. 
AVhen excited his veins fill, his nostrils distend, his eyes shine; all 
his movements are full of fire and vigor, but his strength is soon 
exhausted. 

The Egyptians show much consideration in the treatment of their 
steeds, but the way they raise, feed, and pamper them is not calcu- 
lated to produce a remarkable breed.' On account of this care the 
animals are too short winded to run any great distances. 

The art of horse training is but comparatively little known among 
the Egyptians. A colt, wathin a few days after birth, is allowed to 
follow its mother on all excursions. The rider, however, is careful 
to stop often, so that the youngster shall not suffer for nourishment. 
Sick or well, the colt is weaned at the end of six or seven months, 
and then they give him very little food until he is 2 years old. 
Moreover, they take no pains about providing any transition from 
green food to dry. These habits have most deplorable consequences 
in underdeveloping and predisposing the animal to all kinds of 
sickness. 

Like his predecessors in the days of the Pharaohs, the modern 
Egyptian does not use his horse for agriculture; he regards it as a 



EGYPTIAN AND ARABIAN HORSES. 461 

iisi'fiil luxury ;ni(l (raius it with tliiit idea only in niiiid. I'lic pace 
and the ii'allo]) arc llic oidy ii^aits that the Ejijyptians ever teach their 
horses, and they have hardly any tricks of the horse trainer. They are 
pMierally broken in on a track or narrow place, where tliej can run 
at full i>allop so close to a wall that they nnist turn on their hind 
le<i:s as a pivot or, what is still more difficult, stop short on their front 
ones. This practice, however, is not Avithont its injnrious effects on 
the horses. 

The ancient E^jptians did not shoe their steeds, which traveled 
everywhere Avithont any detriment to their hoofs. Shoes were not 
at all necessary in Egypt and were not used excej)t by the Turks, who 
introduced the custom in the cities and army. Unshod horses are not 
sul)ject to foot diseases common among others. 

As among the Arabs, signs, supposed to be lucky or otherwise. 
<1etermine the value of a horse. Little knots formed by the skin at 
certain points are by far the most sought-for omens; next in impor- 
tance come the stars on the forehead, then various other marks, and 
finally the shade of color. The inhabitants of Egypt, like those of 
Arabia and Turi\ey, esteem highly horses with three white feet. 

All the luxuriousness of the Egyptian cavalier finds outlet in his 
liorse's trappings, which are of a remarkable richness and beauty and 
greatly resembling those used in Europe during the middle ages. The 
saddles, equipped with high pommels, afford the rider a very secure 
seat. The saddle bow is well adapted to the configuration of both 
man and beast. In case of a fall the great stirrups aid in assuring 
safety, and they are of great assistance to a rider when using his 
Aveapons. 

In order to correct various bad habits, such as biting, kicking, rear- 
ing, the Egyptian employs methods much more efficacious than the 
mere use of the sharp edges of his stirrups. ^\'lien a horse bites they 
proceed to irritate him and then present him with a bad leg of mutton 
just from the fire. The pain that the animal experiences when he 
seizes this seething viand makes him think twice before biting again. 
The method of procedure with a rearing horse is equally simple. A 
groom or a horse trainer, carrying in each hand a bardaque or heavy 
water cooler full of cold w^ater, accompanies his master. AMien the 
horse begins to rear the rider seizes one of the porous jugs and breaks 
it on the breast of his steed. The shock and the sensation of the cold 
water soon checks any tendencies of that kind. 

At one time the Pasha Mohanuned-Ali sought to improve his race 
of horses by establishing at Choubra a stock farm containing 450 
mares from the finest herds of Nedjd and Syria. Under the super- 
vision of a Frenchman this establishment was just beginning to meet 
with remarkable success when it was turned over to a Turkish di- 
rector. In a verv short time it met the fate of all European institu- 



462 EGYPTIAN AND ARABIAN HORSES. 

lions tliiit have to stniiiiilc against the iiiiiorance, prejudices, and 
laziness of the Turks or Jiative E<);yplians. The stud of Ibrahim 
Pasha contained nearly ^00 Nedjdian and Aneza horses; those of the 
Pashas Abbas and Kourchid were equally well filled with stallions 
and mares from Arabia and Hauran. Such a provisiori should cer- 
tainly have assured Egypt a remarkable race; but so little was the 
method and care displaj^ed in their administration and so great is the 
Ignorance of the Egyj^tians and Turks of everything which pertains 
to the breeding and raising of horses that these establishments failed 
utterly to accomplish anything worthy of note. 

As a result the breed of Egyptian horses, which in the juast was 
famed for its virtues, is to-day nothing more than a mixture of all the 
races brought into that country since the Arabian conquest. These 
foreign elements have modified the shape and size of the Egyptian 
type to such an extent that the horse as we find him in no wise resem- 
bles his ancestors depicted on the bas-reliefs of ancient Egypt. How- 
ever, it is a i)erfectly safe conclusion that none can compare with the 
thoroughbred Arabian — the only direct descendant of the pure- 
blooded horse. 

II. — The Arabian Horse and His Principal Marks.« 

The scarcity of the pure-blooded Aral)ian horse in our studs is a 
fact to be deplored, especially as this race must always be depended 
upon to ameliorate the breed of our horses. But their scarcity, as 
well as their value, will lend additional interest to a few details con- 
cerning the origin and the introduction into France of this valuable 
" regenerator.'' 

The Arabian horse is ])ar excellence the king of horses.'' In every 
case where the blood is pure it })resents the most perfect tyi)e, and in 
every case of mixture its oil'spring show some remarka])le qualities. 
Almost alone it seems to have the faculty of improving the various 
breeds with which it is crossed and of i)erpetuating through succes- 
sive generations its characteristic traits. As everyone knows, Ara- 
bian horses are wonderfully intelligent. Story after story is told 
of their extraordinary affection and sagacity. Moreover, they pos- 
sess other admirable qualities. More than any other horse an Arabian 
can stand hunger, thirst, extreme fatigue, and bad weather. Conse- 
quently he makes an ideal war horse. 

The Arabian horse was acclimated in France about the time of the 
first Crusades and is the foinidation of our beautiful and powerful 

a Connnunicatecl by E. Prisse d'Avennes, 1905. Based upon an artkic origi- 
nally puhlislu'd in " Science Franc;aise." 

6 Only the Persian horse can eoniitare in hoanty and mettle with the Arabian 
horse, for tiie Persians are as vigilant in guarding the purity of their breed as 
the Arabians. 



"Smithsonian Report, 1 904.— d'Avennes. 



Plate III. 




ZEDAN. Pure-blooded Arabian Colt, Property of the Davenport Farms, 

MONTCLAIR, N. J. 
Photograph taken at Davenport Farms. 



EGYPTIAN AND ARABIAN HORSES. 463 

i-;ic('s (»!' Liiiioiisiii. rn'itdiiiy. Ardcmu's. Aincrii'iu', and others almost 
as AvcU known. 

'Vhv Ixonians Aalucd most lii<i-ldy as a war mount the Numidian 
liorso." Thev used them with lircat success in their expeditions 
against tlie (lermans, tlie (iauls, and the Scythians. Durin<j^ tlie Cru- 
sades the 1^'rankisli j)eo])h's hr()U<iht home numbers of oriental horses, 
which they soon came to value hiiihly for breeding no less than for 
war. 

All the famous horses of history — that of Kichard C^oMir de Lion 
at Medina, of Philip Augustus at Bouvines, of William the Con- 
(jueror at Hastings, of Saint Louis at JNIassoure, of Francis the First 
at Pavia, of Henry the Second at the tournament in which he was 
killed, of Henry the Fourth at An^ues de Ivry, of Louis XIV in his 
wars and fetes, and, finally, of Najioleon at Marengo and Austerlitz — 
all these horses were ''Arabians" or '' Barbs." 

The Arabian horse is easily recognized by a- peculiar ])hysiognomy. 
He has always a remarkal)le expression which is not found in any 
other race and which seems to signalize him as the type of the spe- 
cies. His head is square and shari)ly chiseled ; in front it is large and 
sometimes bulgy; the back of the skull is also well developed. The 
eyes are large, prominent, and ordinarily very beautiful, with the 
characteristic black lashes. The ears are small, well placed, and 
mobile. The lower jaw^ is a little strong; the forehead is hollow 
rather than prominent; the muzzle is sharp; the nostrils large and 
susceptible of great dilation when the horse is excited. The mouth 
is of medium size, with a small lower lip. A well-attached head and 
easy curve of neck and shoulder give an elegance to the animal. The 
neck is long enough to bend gracefully, and, when the horse runs, 
is thrown l)ack to form what is termed the " stag neck." This con- 
formation, looked ui)on somewhat as a fault, is natural to all animals 
who run long distances. 

The withers of the Arabian are well iilled out without being con- 
spicuous; the back narrow, the sides i-ounded, the loins double and 
full, the hind (luai'ters long and rounded. A well-placed tail is car- 
ried with vigor and grace. This horse, like all energetic creatures, is 
not above medium size. Its articulations are large and strong, its 
vigorous muscles show }>lainly beneath the skin. The rum}), the 
withers, the hind quarters, are above all remarkable for their strength. 
The solid hocks are close together, a conformaticm peculiar to swift- 
running animals, like the stag and the gazelle. 

The shoulder and foreleg are free and muscular. The delicate legs 
are clean cut, with detached tendons; the shank of the front leg is 
usually short and the saphenous veins inconspicuous. The feet are 

"They must have existed long before the Romans were aware of their vahie, 
since Strabo phieecl at 100,000 the number of oolts born each year in Numidla. 



464 EGYPTIAN AND ARABIAN HORSES. 

oval, with very hard hhick hoofs, the hind feet behig sometimes a 
little rounded in the back. The mane and tail are not very full. The 
hide is delicate, the smooth and silky skin giving those splendid lights 
never found except on oriental horses. 

Nedjed, in the center of Arabia, is the home of the first races of 
horse. The Arabs generally trace the origin of their breed of horses 
into the most remote days of paganism. There are two races or gen- 
eral divisions of Arabian horses; the Atik, that is to say, "pure " or 
" pure blood," born of xVrabian father and mother; the Hedjin and the 
Moukrif, both mongrel or half-breed, the first having an Arabian 
father and a foreign mother, the second having an Arabian mother 
and a father of another race. 

In Persia, in Syria, in Egypt, and the Magreb, although these coun- 
tries themselves produce excellent horses, the Arabian courser is giAXMi 
the preference over all others, and the oriental warriors take great 
pride in owning them. 

This much-vaunted animal does not conform with the generally 
accepted European standards of beauty in horseflesh, and many 
judges refuse to accord him a degree of perfection beyond reproach. 
Nevertheless, it is quite true that the Arabian steed surpasses all 
others in a magnificent combination of speed and strength. 

When the blood is the same, the Arabs prefer very much a mare to 
a stallion for three reasons: The first consideration is the enormous 
profit to be derived from the former. Cases are known in Avhich 
Arabs have made 10,000 or 20,000 douras ($10,000 to $20,000) on 
the offspring of one mare. There is a saying, " The fountain head of 
v/ealth, a mare which foals a mare." In the second place, a mare does 
not neigh in an ambuscade or night attack, and is less sensible than 
the stallion to hunger, thirst, and heat. Thirdly, in contrast to the 
stallion the nuire requires but little care ; she does not need much food 
and her master takes or sends her to pasture with the camels and 
sheep, without the expense of an attendant sais to prevent her from 
wandering off. 

The Arabian horse has acclimated itself in every country where it 
has been introduced and stands undisputed the finest warhorse in the 
world. All climates are good to him, every latitude suits him, and he 
is satisfied with any kind of food. The ordeals which these horses 
underwent during the campaigns in Crimea and Kussia are in them- 
selves proof of this. 

From the earliest times the Arabians have given studious attention 
to distinctive marks by which they may at first glance recognize the 
merits or defects of a horse. 

The physical qualities prized mostly in their steeds are: A little 

head, pointed ears almost touching at their extremities, a large front 

•face, eyes prominent and lively, lower jaw large but light, muzzle 



EGYPTIAN AND ARABIAN HORSES. 



465 



(iijx'rcd ;in(l l):uv, wi(U'-()[)('ii nostrils. :i lonij;, arcluMl ncclc, stroiijjj 
i-licsl, hind quartors high and rounded, belly inconsjjiciious, tail 
^liort and fine, nervous le<i:s with short, tlexihle jjasterns, and hard 
and ample hoofs. AVhen the tlii-ee pi'incipal (|ualities, that of head, 
hind (piarters. and of le<is, are found toijether the horse is considered 
perfect. Rut, on the other hand, when :i horse shows any unlucky 
siyn they will ha\'e him neither for mount nor for stallion. For 
there are several natural si_i>;ns which the Aral)s regard as si<inificant, 
some as sinister for the owner or rider, others as favorable and luciv 
bringing. Whatever superstitions they may sliow in similar matters 
it is certain that these ideas have had root in long-extended observa- 
tions, and that superstitious as they are they Avould never consent to 
reduce by two-thirds the price of their horses bearing unlucky signs 
if there were not some mysterious foundation of truth in these beliefs. 

The greater jiarts of these signs are small feathei's, or epis, situated 
on different parts of the body. An '' epi " is a little mesh or tuft of 
hair which makes a slight projection on a horse's hide. Each one of 
these has to the Arab a significance according to the place where it 
occur:*! and the length and fineness of the hair. 

Here is a list of the most characteristic epis familiar in Mesopo- 
tamia. Syria, Nedjed, Avhich is to say in the countries where the most 
beautiful horses of the Orient are found. The numbers refer to the 
fiffure — 




Sketch of an Arabian horse showing the situation of principal epis. 

1. Kanadil: Two epis situated in the forelock near the temples; 
they are considered among the favorable signs, 
SM I90i 30 



466 



EGYPTIAN AND ARABIAN HOESES. 



2. El-clieriknin : Two epis situated above the eyes; favorable sign. 

8. Kabr on Kabr maftouli, Avliich translates '' fall open; " An ei)i 
on loAver front face, considered the most sinister of the signs and 
known to all Arabs. 

4. Nadabat: Epis on both sides of lower jaw. Unlucky on a mare; 
Avithout significance on stallion. 

5. Ranakat: V.pi^ on thi-oat near the trough, considered favorable 
by some, unfavorable by others. 

C). ITedjab: Favorable epis situated on both sides of the Avindpipe. 
T. C"liakk-el-djeib : Unlucky. 

8. Nichan-el-sidr: Favorable. 

9. El djeraid: Epi under the mane; faA'orable. 

10. Nichan-el-cherihah : Favorable. 

11. Nichan-el-dera : Insignificant Avhen the Avhite stocking docs not 
reach it. 

12. Nichan-el-sourrah or sabak: Epis on either side of the navel; 
faA'orable. 

13. Boch-nichan: On the buttocks; unlucky; mares bearing this 
sign Avill have trouble in foaling. 

14. Irmah : U'nlucky sign. 

15. Djennabat: Epis on the flanks. A\'itliout importance if cov- 
ered by the saddle, but reputed unlucky if left uncovered. . 

An epi raised on the middle of tire forehead like a solitary palm 
tree is a sign of great fortune and is called the '' road to happiness." 

The " hand of God," an epi on the upper front legs, prognosticates 
a victory for its rider, while a curling of the hair on the haunches in- 
dicates the reverse. 

Horses Avhicli have epis on both sides of the tail are execrable ; they 
are entirely bad Avhen these funestral signs — probably identical Avith 
those called Irmah (14) — are not balanced by some other signs. 

The omens Avhich the Arabs draAv from markings and other signs 
on their horses are not less remarkable than the qualities and faults 
they deduce from the epis. A black horse Avithout any spot Avill 
bring misfortune. A black stripe on the back from the neck to the 
tail is an enviable sign. Black spots on the fetlock joint diminish by 
at least one-half the value of a stallion or colt. The horse Avith a hard 
cornea is not only sAvift, but very patient into the bargain, Avhile a 
restiA'e animal has, as a rule, snudl eyes and narrow nostrils. Horses 
Avith tawny hair around the ])asterns are good for breeding. 

" Look out," says the Arab, '' for spots Avhich are not exactly cen- 
tered in the forehead. 

'' xVny horse Avliich has a Avhite star and no Avhite feet Avill carry you 
to destruction. 

*' Horses with black spots on the mouth are unlucky. Avicked, and 
inclined to bite and kick. 



EGYPTIAN AND ARABIAN IIORSKS. 4()7 

'• A lictrsc w ilh wliiU' on his lips and nioiilli will run faster than the 
wind. 

•• A hoi'sc whose white face stops on its nose will rear continually 
and throw llie best of riders. 

" If the up})er lip is Avhite undei'neath near the gums it is a favor- 
able sign; if it is black it is unfa\()i-able. 

" A white mark on eacli side of the chest, back of the stirrup, indi- 
cates speed and safety: they are called ' the winiis.' 

" The horse with long white stockings is a dangerous brute. If 
the white runs higher on the right side than the left, sell him or pre- 
pare your burial garment. 

"• The horse Avith the chest of a lion, the hind quarters of a Avolf, and 
the legs of a gazelle, long may he live." 

These maxims show, if any such proof is needed, the great care the 
Arabs display in k(>eping pure the blood of their royal animal. 

The preceding indicates sufficiently the superiority which the Ara- 
bian charger has had, and still has, over other races. It is hardly 
true — as many of our English trained horsemen insist — that the 
English horse is only the Arabian increased in stature and endowed 
with other <iualities suited to the varied exigencies of civilization. 
With its growth in size, the English horse has lost its long wind, its 
courage, its sol)riety, its endurance, and the suppleness of articula- 
tion: all of which are characteristic of the Oriental horse. The 
Arabian horse runs as Avell as the English, and if, as they say in 
England, the Arabian is perfected in that country, it is only by sacri- 
ficing all the solid (|ualities of the thoroughbred Arab to an exaggera- 
lion to a single one — speed — a quality Avhich nature has not seen fit to 
give him as liberally as to more timid animals. 

The horse, it has been said, is the expression of society; railroads, 
the automobiles, bicycles, telegraph and telephone, everything nuin 
has invented to devour space, though they tend to diminish the 
necessity for the horse, will never cause him to disappear. In spite 
of all our progress he will always remain an indispensable utility, 
and, if only for the use of the Army, w-e should endeavor to preserve 
the thoroughbred Arabian, the " regenerator "' of all other races. 



BEES AND FEOWEKS." 



By E. L. VtOVVjr.K. 
Pro/"e.s.sr»r (/» }fus('inii d'Histoirc ydtiirrllr, Paris. 



Tliat Ikh's visit floAvors i^; well known to pvervbocly, as is the fact 
that tlicso constant visits of thoii's ai-e by no moans disinterested. 
Of the flower the bee asks two thinos: The pollen dnst from the sta- 
mens and the sugared nectar, whicli most often is fonnd at the bottom 
of the corolla. The pollen serves as food innnediately, but among the 
social bees and very probably among the solitaiy species as well, the 
nectar nnist first undergo a series of changes. The cane sugar in this 
liquid, under the action of salivary products, is transformed into 
glucose. It acquires a peculiar taste and odor, and, as honey, is de- 
posited by the bee in the cells of its hive, where it is mixed with 
pollen to form a nourishing paste, or consumed at once by its collector. 

In their wild state adult bees live on honey and pollen exclusively; 
no other food will support them. Under domestication they will 
accept certain substitutes, meal in the place of pollen, and sugared 
water instead of nectar, but, when possible, they will invariably 
return to the flowers and feed as do their wild relations. 

Among the solitary species, the female bee makes this paste of pollen 
and honey for her young: among the social bees, especially with our 
common honeybee, it is the sterile females or drones who attend to 
this duty. To speak more exactly I may say that the larva> of the 
honeybee in their early stages are nourished with a peculiar jelly, 
rich in albuminoids secreted by the drone mirses, and that the larvit^ 
of the queen bee subsist on this all through thtMr evolution. Since 
this jelly is produced by the nurses out of the honey and pollen, I do 
not exaggerate when I say that these two substances are as necessary 
to young bees as to old. 

oAn abridged translation, l)y permission, from lievue gern'rale des Sciences 
'pures et appliques, Paris, April 1.5, 1904. 

469 



470 BEES AND FLOWERS. 

lAvill soon (losoribo tluMvondorfiil implements Avliicli the bees use in 
the collection of their food, but first let me show how sagacious they 
arc in their visits to the flowers in search of it. According to the 
observations of Bonnier and de Layens, the assignment of honey bees 
to the various flowers varies considerably, but is always calculated. 
Everv morning each swarm sends out its scouts to explore the neigh- 
borhood and to determine the proper plants and the places where they 
grow. On the return of the advance guard great numbers of workers 
go forth, some to collect pollen, others to pilfer for nectar. The prin- 
ciple of the division of labor is observed perfectly, each toiler col- 
lects one or other of the products exclusively, and almost always at 
the same trip, at least, limits his visits to a single kind of floAver. 
Thus the work is done surely and rapidly. 

" Bees and l)umblebees," says Darwin. " are good botanists, for they 
know that varieties can show great ditferences in the color of their 
flowers without ceasing to belong to the same species. I have fre- 
quently seen drones fly straight from a ])lant of Dutamnus fraxmeUa^ 
usually all reef, to a white variety; from a variety of Delphinmm ron- 
soVt(la\\w\ of Pi'hmila reris to one of an entirely ditferent color; from 
a dark ]:)urp]e ]^!(>J(i ti'/rolor to a golden yellow one, and in two species 
of Papaver from one variety to another of a very different color. But 
in this last case, some bees flew impartially to one or the other species 
and acted as though the two were simple varieties.'' 

Innumerable ol)servations of this kind haA^e been made. As Dar- 
win indicates, the insects recognize at a distance the appearance of a 
desired flower, and, without doul)t, its perfume as well. As a result 
of this instinct the honeybee adapts itself to circumstances and 
following the order of florescence, frequently changes its field of 
action. In the spring you find it visiting the few flowers then open, 
especially the catkins. A little later it frequents the cherry trees, the 
peach trees, and the pear trees; still later, when most of the corallas 
are radiant, the Leguminosae, especially the Robinia, the clover, and 
sainfoin, are favorites. Apiarists recognize this faculty of choice as 
an element to be considered in bee keeping, and often take advan- 
tage of it l)y cultivating not far from the hives i)lants which are 
covered with blossoms for a long time. 

The ]u-()cesses employed by the bees for getting at the desired sweets 
are fai- from iiiiil'onii. The honeybee, whose mandibles are not over 
strong, usually satisfies himself by crawling into the corolla, the 
Xylocopidae do not put themselves to so much trouble; one stroke 
of their powerful jaws lays baiv the nectar. The mason bees and the 
bumble-l)ees often have recourse to the same rough method. Fre- 



BEER AND FLOWERS. 471 

qncntlv the iiiiii'iiious lioiicv bee lakes advantau'c of tlic pcrforalions 
iiiado by earlier visitors of this class to get at the nectar luoiv <iiiickly. 

l)ut it is useless to dwell longer upon these points. Bees are 
athnirabiy athipted to the collection of nectar and of pollen, and these 
two products are necessary to them and sullicient for them at any age, 
so nuich so that one may say, with M. l\'rez, that ''every species of 
bee without exception would disappear if (lowei's should ceas(» to 
bloom or if they should cease to produce nectar and j)ollen." 

This fact well (established — that Howcm-s are indispensable to the bee, 
it is next necessary to see if the bees are in I'elurn of any service to the 
flowers, and, if so, how nnu;h. The <|uestion has been nuich discussed, 
and to this chiefly are due the differences of opinion that I will speak 
of in a few moments. 

r>efore entering the thick of the fray, Jet me explain a few of 
the fundamental })rinciples governing the fertilization of phanerog- 
amous idauts. In most of these plants, especially the more common 
ones, the stamens, or nuile' organs, and the ovules, or fenuile organs, 
are fouiul in the same flower, which in that case is called a heruuii)hro- 
dite. On its periphery are found the stamens crowned by the anthers 
containing the pollen and in the center rests one or more sacs which 
are united to form the pistil and which inclose a varying number — • 
always infinitely less than the number of pollen grain — of ovules. 
For these to become seeds it is necessary that the pollen germinate on 
the pistil and, by working through it, unite with each ovule. In the 
plants of which the flowers are unisexual — that is to say, some flowers 
are male, others female — the process is the same except that in this 
case it is necessary that the pollen be brought to the pistil of the 
female flower. 

This is brought about in two ways, by close fertilization and by 
cross fertilization. In the former the ovules are impregnated l)y the 
pollen of the flower which contains them, in the latter the fertilization 
is from pollen of a difl'erent plant. Darwin has shown that cross fer- 
tilization is much more advantageous to a plant than close, and that 
the maxinnuu benefit is obtained in the crossing of two varieties of the 
same species. The advantage is shown in general by a more robust 
vegetation, an earlier flowering, and the fornuition of more and better 
seeds. Darwin's demonstrations rest u])on an abundance of exjMU'i- 
ment and observation, and ai"e. moreover, justified by modern i)ractice 
extended even into the aninuil kingdom. 

Nothing indicates more clearly the advantages of cross fertiliza- 
tion than does its great predominance in the vegetable kingdom; it 
is absolutely necessary in the case of plants with unisexual flowers, 
and, despite all appearances to the contrary, obtains in many, if not 



472 BEES AND FLOWERS. 

most, cases of plants with the bisexual flowers. For there is that 
curious fact developed by Darwin and b}^ many botanists, that 
when pollen of the same flower and pollen from another flower of 
the same species are placed simultaneousl}^ on the pistil of an her- 
]na])hrodite flower the latter will germinate more rapidly and will 
in most cases determine the fertilization. Clearly this must render 
crossing almost ineyitable. Although the pollen of an hermaphrodite 
may fall dii'cctly on the contiguous pistil it is more than likely that 
a puit' of wind or the yisit of an insect will place on the same stigma 
some grains of foreign pollen in time to anticipate it. 

But returning to the bees. We have shown the predominance of 
cross fertilization among the floAvering plants and pointed out the 
advantages resulting to the plant. Now, if it can be demonstrated 
that the bees are the most active agents in this cross fertilization 
there will be no longer any doubt as to their usefulness. 

All flowers, whether their reproductive organs mature simultane- 
ously or at dilferent times, give u]) their pollen to insects or to the 
Avind or in a very great majority of cases to both. Plants whose fer- 
tilization depends entirely u])on the action of the wind are called 
anemophiles. Lacking insect allies, all the primitive Phanerogams 
were anemoiDhile exclusively, and have transmitted that characteristic 
to their descendants; the}' are represented by the Gymnosperms with 
unisexual flowers, of which the conifers are our best known type. 
Since the wind is an absolutely blind instrument so much of the pollen 
is lost that these anemophiles must produce considerable quantities. 
AValk through the Avoods at Vincennes a few weeks hence, and if the 
wind be right you will find the ground tinged Avith yelloAV by the 
pollen of the massive pines. 

TIoAveATr, plants exclusiA-ely anemophile are few ; the greater 
part of the floAvering plants disseminate their pollen both by the Avind 
and by insects. These tAvo agents of distribution arc l)y no means 
equalh^ efficient; the Avind bloAvs the pollen dust about at random, 
while the insects carry it direct to the pistils of the (lowers they fre- 
quent. 

DarAvin and numerous others found by experiment that at least 
half of the plants we grow are randered entirely or partially sterile 
by being coA-ered with a gauze to keep aAvay the insects. 

Generally speaking, the plants Avhich require most insistently the 
visit of insects are those Avhose floAvers are the most irregularly 
formed. Many of tliem have their floAvers so arranged that the insect 
is forced in his attempts to reach tlic nectar to coA^er himself Avith pol- 
len and thus produce cross fertilization. In no case is this more strik- 
ing than in that of the sages; in these abnormal Labiates tAvo stamens 
have disappeared and th.e other two have dAvindled to a long con- 
nective loaded Avith a pollen sac. Entering the throat of the floAver 



BEES AND FLOWERS. 



478 



to ivacli the noctiir (at ikj, fiii". 1) \\w Ixv (D) strikes with liis 
head the short sterile aiMU {ac) whieh aets as a sort of l(>ver to hrino; 
>lowu the loii<i- arm with its poHen sac {(t) to cover his haelc with the 
fertile dust. 'V\\\\s laden the l)usy workman (lies to anoth'.'r flower and, 




Fig. 1. — Flower of Salvia ojficinalis. (.From Cheshire: Bees and Bee-keeping.) 
A. Yoiing flower, showing an atrophied pollen sac. B. Old flower, showing the stigma. C. 
Young, longitudinal section. D. Same visited by a bee. E. Longitudinal section, V)aso of the 
corolla tube, a fertile pollen sac; <(r sterile pollen sac; <■ connective which joins the two sacs 
and which can oscillate in hi around the filament of stamen /; st style; ng nectary at base of 
ovaries; ca calyx; co corolla. 

as he enters, l)riishes off some pollen on the projecting stigma (fit). 
With the exception of the Salria eorcina, studied by Ogle and Dar- 
win, all the sages are thus fertilized by the bees. 




Fig. 3. — Primula vulytiris. 

A. Flower with long style (st). B. Flower with .short style (.s/'i; .s s' stigmala; a o' stamens; 

o o' ovaries; py pg' grains of poll(>n. 

Among the primroses we find a much larger and more varied 
class of plants equally adapted to cross fertilization by insects, but in 
a" different manner. As illustrated in the Primula vulgaris (fig. 2) 
there are among these plants two sorts of flowers: Some (B) in which 



474 



BEES AND FLOWEES. 



the style (sf) scarcely reaches beyond the middle of the tube of the 
coi-olhi and the stamen^-' {a') are placed near the orifice; others (A) 
where the position is reversed, the style {st) extending- to the orifice 
and the stamens forming a ring in the center of the tube. 

To this remarkable difference is added another hardly less curious; 
the pollen of the short-styled flowers is large grained {p(/') while the 
pollen of the others conies in very small grains (pf/). These plants 
are therefore as ill adapted as possible to direct fertilization or cross 
fertilization through the action of the wind. Some sort of insect 
intervention becomes almost necessary. When a bee goes into one of 
the short-styled flowers ( B) he strikes the stamen with his head and 
covers it with pollen (hist. AMieii he enters a flower of the other sort 



(I rs .-P^ 




Fi(i. ;i.— Orchid flowers and their fertilization hy bees. 

A. Flower of OrrJtin morio, with the sepals, two petals, and a bit of the right side of the spur re- 
moved . This ill )wer is visited l)y a bee which receives on its face the sticky pollen mass from ( r ) . 
B. This pollen is carried to another flower which recidves it on its stigma {st}, after which 
another mass ip<>) is carried away by the visitor. C Same as A, viewed from front to show 
entrance to spurs and the antler (a). D. Isolated mass of pollen (po) fixed on the rostellum. 
E, P, G. Successive positions taken by pollen on bee's head. H. Disruption of pollen. I. 
Vanda pollen on head of honeybee. 

(A) he brushes off on its stigma the large grains of pollen he carries 
and with his proboscis gathers the little grains which will fertilize 
the short-styled flowers. Dai'win has made a profound study of these 
heterostyle ])lants and has demonstrated that their fertilization is 
almost always by crossing effected by tlie visits of insects. 

Among the violets, the Aristolochiac(>a> and many other Phanero- 
gams, the arrangement of the i)arts of the flower renders even more 
necessary the intervention of insects, but I pass them over in order to 
reach the orchids, where in ahuost every case this intervention is al)So- 
lutely necessary. 



BEES AND FT.OWERS. 475 

Figure 3 shows the delnils of an oi'chid : Tlu' arcal lip (7) of the 
coroHa ends in a h)n<2,- spur which incloses I he neclar-proihicino- 
organs (y^. Near (he i'ron( of the si)Ui- (he style exi)ands in(o 
a double stigma, which hangs beneath the one large an(hei- (a). 
Instead of being a diffused dust, (he grains of pollen are closely con- 
nected and form two nuisses (/>(>), which are joined by the stipes (r) 
to a glutinous body (fr) at the entrance of the spur. Except the 
Oplii'ijs a pi f ('!■((, which, thaidvs to a si)ecial stnictuiv, can do so, the 
plants of this family are utterly inca|)able of self fei'tili/atiou. 
Nor can the wind aid them. The pollen gi-ains can easily be lifted 
up with a needle oi' })encil i)oint from the glutinous mass where they 
are collected. Tt is by an analagous process that honey bees effect 
the cross-fei'tilization of these jdants. On entering the sjjur in 
search of nectar they come into contact with the viscous disk (A) 
and generalh' cai-ry off one or two of the pollen grains attached 
somewhere (»n the front i)ortion of their body. As Darwin has 
shown, the sticky substance dries very quickly and when the insect 

1 „ 2 




Fl(i. 4.— Trauspiirtation of orcbi<I polloii luassos r)y bocs. iPoUpii ropreseiitfd )iy diaKHiial 

lines.) 
1. FAllenia <liwi<1iiit<i. 3. Eualnsxa rnrdiilci. 

enters the spur of another flower the mass is abandoned so that it 
becomes attached to the stigma, where it yields the fertilizing element. 

The part that the insects play and the advantages of cross-fertiliza- 
tion among the orchids are shown with all possible clearness in the 
case of the vanilla. In Mexico this plant is fertilized naturally bv 
different insects, especially by the Melipones, which greatly resemble 
our bees, but in other regions artificial fertilization is produced by 
rubl)ing the stamen on the pistil with a needle. INI. Tjecomte. who 
has studied the matter, attributes the superior (pudity of the Mexican 
vanilla to the advantage of natiii'al cr()ss-fer(ilization over artificial 
auto-fertilization. In our own grwnhouses the vanilla plant has the 
same experiences — it can produce flowers, but no seed, without pre- 
liminary fei'tilization. 

We must therefore conclude that the Anthophila, and particularly 
the Mellifera, have a place of no small im])()rtance in the fertilization 
of flowering plants. They give them the advantages of crossing, and 
in a large number of cases are al)solutely essential to their repro- 
duction. 



47(1 



BEES AiSTD FLOWERS. 



Perhaps M. Perez exaggerated tlieir importance a little when he 
said, with Dodel-Port, that ''a hundred thousand species of i)lants 
would disai)pear from the face of the earth " if the bees ceased their 
visits, but no one can doubt that such a -contingency would cause a 
very great disturbance in the vegetable kingdom. 

We have now arrived at two facts of the first importance: Flowers 
are necessary to bees, and bees, on their side, are very nseful or even 
necessary to the fertilization of flowering plants. It now^ remains 
to inquire whether this reciprocity of service has had as a consecpience 
any reciprocal adaptation in the two sorts of beings. 

It is generally admitted that all living things are subject to greater 
or less variation, and that among these variations those which are 
advantageous to the species are fixed and further developed b}^ hered- 
ity and natural selection. So if flowers are necessary to the bees 
and bees are useful or necessary in the fertilization of flowers, it is 




FlQ. 5.— Side view of a honeybee. 

only natural to suppcse that all the variations which favoi- food col- 
lection in the former and reproduction in the latter will in the coin-se 
of time be acquired and amplified. This is strictly ivasonable: but 
science will not rest content with a priori gen(M-alizations, and we 
nnist discoA'er how far this logical conclusion is justified by actual 
facts. 

The adaption of the Mellifei'a to the collection of ])ollen and 
nectar appears in various degrees through the whole series from tlu' 
Prosopis to the honeybee Apis 7nellifcr((. Th(> structure of the for- 
mer does not differ essentially from that of the wasps, only if the 
•jaw appendages have been a little elongated and the hairs a little 
more numerous we are at the beginning of the real evolution of the 
]\Iellifera. In the honeybee, on the other hand, the evolution has 
reached its highest point and shows itself i)lainly in the adaptations. 
For the collection of pollen there ar(> the collecting hairs Avhich cover 
every part of the body and which, on the inside of the first tarsal joint 



BEES AND Ff.OWERS. 



477 



of (he liiiid leas, are ^roiipod to fonii a iiiarvclous liKlc hnisli. LiKlc 
halls ol' i)()lK'ii <iatlu'iV(l together by this covering are iecei\t'(l in a 
little basket-like depression on the outside face of tliese legs, whei-e 
thev acfiinuilate and ai-e held by a fringe of curxcd hairs until the 
woi'knian, linding his rullles growing too heavy, goes bad. to tlu; 
lii\-e to get rid ol" his burden. For the collection of nectar the 
adtiptive niodilications are even more perfect and more complicated. 
With the exception of the mandibles, all the buccal appendages are 
elongated and grouped so as to form a proboscis, which at rest is 
folded twice upon itself, and in action is half as long as the body. 
Hollowed out on the inner surface and stretched out to their fullest 
extent the jaw-boxes and the labial feelers are joined to form the 
sides of this organ: (fig. G, nos. 3 and 4) in the axis is the tongue, 
sharp and rough, which is tipped with another tongue in miniature. 





Fig. 6.— Buccal apparatus of beos. (Acrcording to H. Miiller.) 
1. Bee with .short tongue, carried on a long chin [Hdlirtiis <iiiadrtcinctur). 2. Head and protaos*cis 
of Bombiis horturnm. H. Jaws and lower lip o"f the common bee (Ai)is mellifica). i. Cros.s sec- 
tion of the ])roboscis of the Apis mellijica. 

This tip is creased into a narrow gutter on its ventral surface and 
is entirely covered with little absorbent hairs. No more suitable 
inslrunient could be devised for the collection of the li(|uid sugar in 
the nectaries, for these organs are usually deeply buried in the corolla, 
sometimes forming a circle at the base of the pistil, as in the 
Crucifer (fig. 8, no. 2), sometimes relegated to the lower end of 
the floral spur as in the oichid. (Fig. 4.) Thanks to the absorb- 
ent hairs on the little tongue, the nectar is drawn in through the 
capillary groove as far as the canal formed l)y the jawbones and the 
labial feelers, thence it goes to the ui)i)er surface and mounts to the 
mouth through the impulsion produced by the dilation and backward 
and forv,ard movement of the tongue. In oi'der to understand this 
mechanism one should watch l)ees Avhen drinking water. A month 
ago at the Laboratory of Vegetable Biology I saw a large number 
thus occupied; gathered on a bit of moss which covered a little raft 



478 BEES AND FLOWERS. 

they extended their ])r<)I)()seides and (h'aiik in the same way they 
collect nectar. 

Between these and the l^rosopis there is a long series in which we 
may see the instruments for collecting nectar improve step by step. 
With the Xylocoi)idae, the Antliophoridae, and the Eiigiossidae, we 
arrive at the Mellifera, where the social life does not yet exist, hut 
where the proboscis expuils in jierfection, and sometimes even sur- 
passes, in development that of the connnon bee. Among the Euglos- 
sidae it measures at least one and a half the length of the body. 

The collection of pollen is efl'ected by appendages which much 
resemble those of the-Halictinae, only the hairs are short and more or 
less brush-like on the leg as well as on the first joint of the tarsus. 
These brushes api)roach those of the honeybee without attaining the 
same degree of perfection, for the differentiations which make the 




Fio. 7.— The transportation of pollen by tho Mellifera. (The loads of ijollen are indicated by 

diagonal lines. ) 

1. A)idrena clarkeUu. 2. Apisiuelliji< a. S. Meijachileceuturicnlaiiis L. (Among the Megachiles, 

the pollen brush is on the ventral surface of the abdomen.) 

basket has not yet taken place, and the doul)le l)rush and the accom- 
panying wrinkles must retain the pollen as well as collect it. 

One step more and we arrive at the hone}^ bee; here the brush on the 
leg has been replaced by the basket and that of the first tarsal joint 
serves only to collect the pollen dust. The insect no longer waits until 
he reaches the nest to mix this dust with the honey, but at the moment 
he collects he makes little balls wliich he carries in his basket. To 
res])ond to the exigencies of the social life the honey gatherer accumu- 
lates a reserve and has acquired a facidty of secreting a waxy mr.tler 
Avliich allows him to construct cells. HowcYer, these aptitudes are l\y 
no means equally developed in all llie forms of the group; at the foot 
of the series are the bumble-bees who build without skill great ovoid 
cells where they raise their young and store their reserves. These re- 
serves are never large and often insufficient to provide for the colony 
during the winter; this being the case, the colonies have a feeble coii- 



BEES AN' I) I'l.OWKUS. 47V) 

stitiilioii Mild oftcii disappciir altoiictlicr mI (he Mpproadi of llic Icul 
season. Even the jMclliicni nvv more iiidiisti-ioiis and larsiiililcd than 
this. The ivscrvi' receptacles of their coniijlicatcd nests in the tropical 
regions somewhat resemble the cells of the l)iiml)led)ees, hut they are 
intended simply as mai>azines to hold enough provision to allow tlu^ 
colony to maintain itself when the flowers cease to hlooni. 'J'hose of 
the honey bee are very different in chaiacter; they are intended ex- 
clusively for the subsistence of the youn<>' and consist of a stratum of 
cylindrical cells cleverly joined. This architecture brings us to that 
of the bees, properly speaking, Avhich rises to the perfection of sim- 
plicity and economy of material. Here the cells are all of the same 
type and are intended for stroage as Avell as for the rearing of the 
young. They consist of hexagonal prisms separated by conuiion 
walls, and in each comb is formed two opposite layers separated by a 
common base. Xo lost space, no materials wasted; these edifices are 
marvels of construction. 

Among the four sp(H-ies of bees known to us an appreciable dill'er- 
ence in industry may be noticed; the little Api"^ forea and the great 
Ap'oi (lorKiita nest in the open air and build onl>' a single comb; the 
Apis ind'ica constructs i)arallel combs, frecjuently in cavities, but nev- 
ertheless readily accessible to Teigius and other enemies; finally, 
our honey bee builds in the same way, but better protects his work by 
carefully driving away all parasites. 

Thus, from Prosopis to the honeyl)ee, we find a series growing more 
and more perfect by degrees. These forms, developed in the course of 
time, recall the various evolutionary stages through whicli the honey 
bees have passed, and show how these insects un(piestionably adapt 
themselves to the flowers. The apiarists know that the honeybees 
are not all equally adapted for nectar gathering, and that certain of 
them collect more atlvantageously than others with longer tongues; 
they have even invented a special apparatus, the glossometer, to meas- 
ure the length of that organ. By rigorous selection these bee keepers 
hope to hx a form in which the tongue Avill attain its highest develop- 
ment. They Avill then be in possession of the race best suited to the 
pursuit of nectar. With their marvelous instincts, how invaluable 
will be our bees when they can get rid of the very long proboscis of 
the Euglossidae? 

Here we enter into the domain of hypothesis, but without depart- 
ing from probability, for the honeybee is an essentially variable 
creature. Native to Asia," like all the other species of the genus, 
they are now found all over the world from the equator to the extreme 
limits of the temperate zones. Our black bee is already very different 



aTliis is true of the Ajtis florca, A. (Jormla. and .1. iiidica, but not so clearly 
established for tlie ordinary bee. .!/;/•'-• iiiflli/ic(i. 



480 



BEES AND FLO WEES. 



sep 



from the Italian variety Avitli its yellow fuzz, but both are even 
still farther reiuoxed from the tropical bees, especially those of the 
islands. Careful study is necessary to assign all these varieties to the 
same t3'pe; there are thirty forms, most of which lune been taken b}' 
man}^ zoologists for distinctive species. 

To-day hardly anyone disputes the adaptation of bees to food- 
gathering in the floAvers, but the adaptation of the flowers to these 
visitors remains an object of heated controversy. One of the schools, 
headed by Darwin and Sir John Lubbock, exaggerates the influence, 

Avhile the other, M. Gaston Bonnier 
and his pupils, denies its existence. 

Before entering upon this deli- 
cate question let me recall the pas- 
sage in which Sir John Lubbock has 
(ixed its extent and portent. " Not 
only,'' says he, " have the form and 
the colors, the bright tints, the sweet 
odors, and the nectar been gradually 
developed by force of an uncon- 
scious selection exercised by the in- 
sects, but even the arrangement of 
the colors, the shape, the size and 
the position of the petals, the rela- 
tive position of the stamens and 
pistil, are all determined by the 
visits of the insects, and in such a 
way as to assure the great object 
(fertilization) that these visits are 
intended to effect." 

In his beautiful work on the nec- 
taries, Gaston Bcmnicr has fur- 
nished luunerous irrefutable argu- 
ments against tlie theory that that 
nectar is an adaptation to attract 
insects. According to this author the nectaries are organs of reserve 
where the cane sugar, dissolved in the cellular juice, is elaborated 
and stored. As night falls, closing the air-stomata and arresting 
the chlorovaix)rization, the emission of water vapor by the plant is 
replaced by a sort of sweating, which conies slowly from all points of 
the surface and the nectaries in the form of little drops more or less 
rich in sugar. Thus the drops of nectar have the same origin as the 
water given forth by the water-carrying stomata. They are the result 
of a stoppage in the transpiration and do not present any jjeculiar 
character other than that of having traversed organs rich in s^c- 




Ptg. 8.— Nectaries and exudation of nec- 
tar, much enlarged. (After Gaston Bon- 
nier. ) 

1. Longitudinal cross section of the ,Salcia 
huitduifolia: r((/, insertion of the calyx; 
(■<ii\ insertion of the petals; «, nectaries 
with carpels; /c, vessels leading to car- 
pels; fn, vessels leading to nectaries, ri. 
Longitudinal cross section of Auhrictia 
cohaunae: sej), sepals; ef, stamens; ii, n, 
nectaries; </, drop of nectar falling into 
reservoir. 'H. Nectary of a peach flower, 
showing the nectar (g) which accumu- 
lates in the chamber (c) of a stoma. 



BEES AND FLOWERS. 481 

rliariiu's. 'I'hc nectar iicNcr contains more tlian a small |)ai-t of the 
!-ngar secreted by the nectaries. 

When the insects do not collect the nectar soon after its emission 
it is reabsorbed by the plant and serves to nourish the tissues and to 
develop the or«2;ans, especially those for the formation of seeds. In a 
word, it is for its own use, and not to attract bees for fertilization, 
that the phint secrete^s nectar. It thereby accumulates reserves at the 
points nearest to the phice of utilization. Ordinarily this is in the 
flower, where it best can serve the development of the seeds, but 
sometimes it is in other parts of the body, where it is more needed. 

It is therefore impossible to consider nectar and the nectaries en- 
tirely as the products of an adaptation which would have as its result 
the attraction of insects to its flowers. Sir John Lubbock seems to 
me wrong on this point. 

I am not so certain about the odor. Whether it come from petals 
or nectar, no one can doubt that it attracts the keen-sensed l)ees. 
Their olfactory sensibility is demonstrated by the ability they show 
in discovering hone}' in the closest places. In the small house in 
which is kept the honey taken from the hives, at the Laboratory of 
Vegetable Biology, I saw hundreds of bees. The building was per- 
fectly tight and all the chinks in the Avindows stopped up, and in 
spite of assiduous search it was impossible to discover the fissure 
which gave entrance to the swarm. As an additional bit of evi- 
dence, M. Perez very justly observes that bees frequenting the willow 
catkins in the early spring always come thither from the side toward 
which the wind blows the fragrance. 

I do not forget that Sir John Lubbock has seen bees indifferent to 
a bit of honey placed but a short distance from their hive, but believe 
that Perez exactly interprets this experience when he says that the 
collector bee at the moment when it goes out to work is " exclu- 
sivel}^ absorbed by the idea of its work," and that it is " iiKlifferent to 
all which is not the object of its activity of the moment." Nor do I 
ignore the fact that Gaston Bonier finds an objection to the theory of 
attraction by perfumes in the bee's indilference to the delicate fra- 
grance of the Melittis melisso'pliyllmn. But I also know that all 
flowers are not equally attractive and that the Melittis is a plant 
for which the bees show little taste. 

We will therefore admit with a great majority of the naturalists 
that the odor of flowers is an element of attraction for insects. As 
a conse(i[uence is it necessary to believe with Darwin and Sir John 
Lubbock that these perfumes are the product of an adaptation of the 
flowers to the insect? It is rather bold to commit oneself to the 
affirmative when so many plants are strongly scented in places other 
SM 1VKJ4 31 



482 BEES AND FLOWERS. 

than their Howors. However, the vastly greater frequency with 
which these perfumes are foiiiid in floAvers leads one to admit that the 
theorv of the English authors has at least a great degree of proba- 
bility. In any case no one will deny that the perfume in flowers docs 
attract insects, especially the honeyl)ee. 

Still more evident is the attraction of the colors in flowers. Who has 
not seen bees flying through the fields choosing the favorite flowers and 
disdaining all others? Numbers of cases have been cited in which 
the bee evidently associated the notion of color with the idea of booty, 
and in which the tints of the flowers alcMie served him as a guide. 

I would not dwell on this question had not two eminent naturalists, 
Gaston Bonier and Plateau, denied '' that, all other things l)eing 
equal, brilliant colors in preference to those of duller shade attract 
insects." Plateau covered a dahlia, little by little, with green leaves 
and observed that the bees continued their visits to the flowers in spite 
of their green color. Monsieur Forel tried the same experiment by 
})inning green leaves over twenty-eight out of fifty-three flowers of 
various colors displayed in the same basket. He found that the bees 
iunnediately ceased visiting the covered ones (and neglected them for 
two hours until one bee discovered the stratagem), and within a short 
time they were visited like the free l)l()ss()ms. '' Plateau, therefore, 
has experimented badly and drawn false conclusions.'' says Monsieur 
Foi-el. " When he covered his dahlias he covered them slowly and 
oidy on top. The bees perceived the trick and could still see the sides 
of the dahlias. Plateau had failed to leckon with the memory and 
the attention of the bees." 

Gaston Bonnier experimented differently. On a smooth bit of 
green turf about 20 m. from some hives he ])laced a I'ow of rectan- 
gles about 2 m. apart. These blocks, measuring 22 by 12 cm., were 
red, green, white, or yellow, and all daubed with the same quality of 
hone3\ They Avere impartially visited by the bees, with apparently a 
slight i)reference for the green. In considering this experiment one 
should not forget that there was al)solutely no reason why bees 
absorbed in the search of ne(;tar or i)ollen should visit these great 
colored rectangles which in nowise resembled flowers of any kind. 

Monsieur Forel introduced into a basket of dahlias a numl)er of 
large artificial flowers in the heai't of Avhich he placed a bit of honey. 
The bees were satislied with the dahlias until one of their luunber 
wandered into the artificial flowers. As he repeated his trip he Avas 
imitated by others until the dahlias Avere deserted and all the imita- 
tions Avere visited exce])t those colored green; this continued cA^en 
Avhen the artificial floAvers had been despoiled of their honey. All the 
brilliant imitation attracted the bees; all of the green ones Avere 
unnoticed. P)ut, in draAving his deductions, I belicA^e Forel is AVJ'ong 
m not ascribing to bees a keen enough |)erception of odors; he forgets. 



BKIOS AND KI.OWKHS. 488 

MS (Iocs rxumicr. wlicii he oH'ci's jis an jiriiiiiiiciil ii<j;ainsl llic altiac- 
tioiis of coloi- llicii- \ isils (o orccn catkins and lioiicv-sim'arcd I<'avcs, 
that hccs allow thcnischcs to l>c uMiidcd hy all llicii- senses, and do not 
depend on smell or sialit alone. 

It seems, then, (piitc certain that the honey hccs are atti-actcd hv 
color in ilowers. hnt not so certain that color is an adaptation (d' the 
plant to the insect. Althou<ih the latti'i- is believed by many ol' the 
most distinguished natnralists it still wants conclnsive demonstration. 
Like the odor the adaptation does exist, but more than that can not be 
said [)ositi\'eIy. However this may be, both of these agents serve to 
attract the bees and in this way favor the fertilization of the phan- 
erogams. 

This is even nuire true of the variously coniplicat<>(l (lowers — the 
long-tubed corolla, the narrow spurs, the stamens covered bv the 
petals. Granted that over and al)ove the attraction they exercise on 
the bees, the color and i)erfume of a flower may play some ])art in the 
adaptation of a plant, the same can not be said with regard to these 
complications of the calyx and corolla. How can the infinite variety 
of these organs and their sometimes fantastic arrangement be 
explained without recourse to the hypothesis of a reaction of the 
plant toward the insect? This reaction began the day the first 
insects visited the first flowers and is continued through the present. 

To summarize: (1) Nectar and the nectaries are certainly in- 
tended primarily for the plant itself and do not prove an adapta- 
tion of the flower to the insects. (2) The colors and perfumes of 
flowers may be, perhaps, the result of such an adaptation, but in any 
case thej^ strongly attract anthophilian insects, signalling to them 
the presence of booty, (o) In many cases, if not all, the complicated 
forms of the flowers must be attributed to the adaptation of flowers to 
their visitors. 

Such is the state of our knowledge as it stands to-day, founded, I 
think, on the closest observation and the best reasoning. In the very 
nature of things adaptation requires long evolutionary periods; it 
can rarely be j^roved directly, and evidence regarding it is only to be 
oi)tained l)v long comparative observations. 

However, it is almost unanimously conceded nowadays that the 
Mellifera, at least in so far as their collecting aparatus is concerned, 
;'re beautifully adapted to the flowers, but, despite the fact that prac- 
tice has shoAvn that plants are in every way more plastic than ani- 
mals, it is still strongly disputed that the flowering plants have 
adapted themselves to bees. 

If there does exist any reciprocal modification between the ]\felli- 
fera aiul the flowering plants it is not at all necessarj^ to suppose that 
one group has been modified for the benefit of the other. Each has 
evolved on its oAvn account. Explained thus, the many objections 



484 BEES AND FLOWKKS. 

to the theory of ivciprocul adaptation arc overthrown. The bee has 
but one object, the pursuit of food, and all thinos which aid him in it 
are welcome. Usually the plant profits thereby; sometimes it sutlers. 
On the other hand, the plant seeks only to assure its propagation and 
all of its modifications tend only toward that goal. It is only indi- 
rectly that the colors and perfumes are of advantage to insects; the 
complicated flower, most favorable to the reproduction of the plant, is 
to the bees an obstacle. The cleistogamous flowers give a striking 
proof of the independence of a plant so far as insects are concerned. 
These tiny, feeble flowers are close-fertilized without any interven- 
tion ; insects never visit them. Found generally among normal flow- 
ers, they prove that plants seek by all possible means to render 
fertilization inevitable. 

Claude Bernard has splendidly fornndated this truth in an aphor- 
ism quoted by M. Oaston lionnier in his work on the nectaries: " The 
law of the physiological finality is in each individual being and not 
outside it; the living organism is made for itself; it has its own 
intrinsic laws. It works for itself and not for others." It is not pos- 
sible better to define the recii)rocal adaptations which we have showMi 
exists l)etween bees and flowers. It is by no means for the benefit of 
the plant that the collecting apparatus of the bees is modified, but 
only that the bee may better nourish itself. On the other hand, it is 
to the distinct advantage of the plant and its propagation that flow- 
ers are modified in shape, color, and odor. The insect has gained by 
the conformation of the flowers; the flower by the visits of the insect. 
But each of these beings has been evolved on its own account and 
adapted itself, as pointed out by the illustrious Lamarck, to the vital 
conditions of the world in which it lives. 



THE PEARL FISHERIES OF CEYLON.* 



By Prof. W. A. Herdman, D. Sr., F. R. S. 

The celebrated pearl " oysters " of Ceylon are found mainly in 
certain ])arts of the wide, shallow plateau wliich occupies the upper 
end of the (Julf of iNIanaar, oH' the northwest coast of the island 
and south of Adams Bridge. 

The animal {Margaritifera twJgaris, Schum. = Avicnla fucata^ 
Gould) is not a true oyster, but belongs to the family Aviculidse, 
and is therefore more nearly related to the nnissels (Mytihis) than 
to the oysters (Ostrcea) of oui- seas. 

The fisheries are of very great antiquity. They are referred to by 
various classical authors, and Pliny speaks of the pearls from 
Taprobane (Ceylon) as '' by far the best in the world." Cleopatra 
is said to have obtained pearls from Aripu, a small village on the 
Gulf of Manaar, which is still the center of the pearl industry. 
Coming to more recent times, but still some centuries back, we have 
records of fisheries under the Cingalese kings of Kandy, and sub- 
sequently under the successive European rulers — the Portuguese 
being in possession from about 1505 to about 1655, the Dutch from 
that time to about 1T'.)5, and the English from the end of the eight- 
eenth century onward. A notable feature of these fisheries under 
all administrations has been their uncertainty. 

The Dutch records show that there were no fisheries l)etween 17:^2 
and 1T4(), and again between 17G8 and 1796. During our own time 
the supply failed in 1820 to 1828, in 1837 to 1854, in 1864 and several 
succeeding years, and, finally, aftei" five successful fisheries in 1887, 
1888, 1889, 1890, and 1891, there has been no return for the last decade. 
Many reasons, some fanciful, others with more or less basis of truth, 
have been given from time to time for these recurring failures of 
the fishery, and several investigations, such as that of Doctor Kelaart 

"Address before the Royal Institution of Great Britain, Friday, March 27. 
1903. Here reprinted from author's revised copy. The official report upon this 
investigation is now l)eing puI)lishod for the Ceylon government by the Royal 

Society of Loudon. 

485 



486 THE PEARL FISHERIES OF CEYLON. 

(who unfortunately died befoi-e his Avork was completed) in 1S5T 
to 185!) and that of ]\Ir. Holdsworth in 18G5 to 1869, have been 
undertaken witlioiil niiicli j)racti('al ivsult so far. 

In September, 1<)U1, iMr. Chamberlain asked me to examine the 
records and report to him oji the matter, and in the following spring 
I was invited by the Government to go to Ceylon with a scientific 
assistant and undertake any investigation into the condition of the 
banks that might be considered necessary. T arrived at Colombo in 
January, IDOiJ, and, as soon as a steamer could be obtained, proceeded 
to the pearl banks. In Ajiril it was necessary to return to my uni- 
versity duties in Liverpool, but I was fortunate in having taken out 
with me as my assistant Mr. James Hornell. who was to remain in 
Cejdon for at least a year longer in order to carry out the observa- 
tions and experiments we had arranged and complete our Avork. 
This programme has been cari-ied out, and Mv. Ilornell has kept me 
supplied with weekly reports and with specimens i'e(iuiring detailed 
examination. 

The Ss. Lady Haveloek was placed by the Cejdon government 
at my disposal for the work of examining into the liiological condi- 
tions surrounding the i)earl oyster banks, and this enabled me on 
two successive cruises of three or four weeks each to examine all the 
principal banks and run lines of dredging and traAvling and other 
observations across, ai'ound, and between them, in order to ascertain 
the conditions that determine an 03'ster bed. Towai'd the end of my 
stay I took j)art in the annual inspection of the pearl banks, by 
means of divers, along A^ ith tfie retiring inspector, Capt. J. Donnan, 
C. M. G., and his successor Captain Legge. Dui-ing that jx'riod we 
lived and wor-ked on the native bark fiinigasdjiiccpoiuiiree and had 
daily opportunity of studying the methods of the luitive divers and 
the results they obtained. 

It is evident that Wu'yo are two distinct questions that may be 
raised — the lirst as (o (he al)Uiidance of the adult "oysters" and 
tne second as (o (he number of ]>earls in the oystei's, and it was the 
first of these rathei- than the frequency of the pearls that seemed 
to call for investigation, since the complaint has not been as to the 
number of pearls per adidt oysb'i-, but as to the complete disappear- 
ance of the shellfish. I was indebted to Captain Donnan for much 
kind help during the inspection, when he took pains to let me see as 
thoroughly and satisfactorily as possible the various banks, the 
different kinds and ages of oj^sters, and the conditions under which 
these and their enemies exist. I wish also to record my entire satis- 
faction Avith the Avoi-k done by Mr. Ilornell, both while I was with 
him and also since. It Avould have been quite impossible for me to 



THK I'KAKL FISI I Kill KS OF CEVLON. 4S7 

have o-()t tliroiiiih tlio work I did in the very limited liiiic Imd i( no! 
hecii for Ml'. Iloriu'irs skilled assistjuice." 

Most of the pearl oyster banks or " paars " (nicaninj>- rock or any 
form of hard hotlom, in distinction (o " maniil," which indicates loose 
or soft sand) are in dei)ths of from 5 to 10 fatlioms and occupy the 
wide shallow area of nearly 50 miles in length, and extending oppo- 
-^ilc Ai'ipu to JO miles in breadth, which lies to the soutli of Adam's 
liridge. On the westerp edge of this area there is a steej) declivity, 
the sea dee])eiiing within a few miles from under 10 to over 100 fath- 
oms, while out in the center of the southern part of the (iulf of 
Manaar, to the west of the Cliilaw Pearl Banks, depths of between 
1,000 and 2,000 fathoms are reached. On our two cruises in the 
La<hj Ilai^clock we made a careful examination of the ground in sev- 
eral places outside the banks to the westward, on the chance of finding 
beds of adult oysters from Avhich possibly the spat deposited on the 
inshore banks might be derixcd. No such beds outside the known 
'*l)aars" were found, nor are they likely to exist. The bottom 
deposits in the ocean al)ysses to the west of Ceylon are " globigerina 
oo/e '" and "'green mud,'"' which are entirely different in nature and 
origin from the coarse terrigenous sand, often cemented into masses, 
and the Aarious calcareous neritic deposits, such as corals and nulli- 
pores, found in the shallow watei- on the banks. The steepest part 
of the slope from 10 or 20 fathoms down to about 100 fathoms or 
more all along the westei'u coast seems in most places to hav^e a hard 
bottom covered with Alcyonaria, sponges, deep-sea corals, and other 
large encrusting and dendritic organisms. Neither on this slope nor 
in the deep water beyond the cliff did we find any ground suitable 
for the pearl oyster to live upon. 

Close to the top of the steep slope, about 20 miles from land, and 
in dej)ths of from 8 to 10 fathoms, is situated the largest of the 
'• ])aars,''' the celebrated Periya Paar, which has frequently figured 
in the inspector's reports, has often given rise to hopes of great 
fisheries, and has as often caused deej) disa])pointment to successive 
Government officials. The Periya Paar runs for about 11 nautical 
miles north and south, and varies from 1 to 2 miles in bredth, and 
this — for a paar — large extent of ground becomes periodically cov- 
ered with young oysters, Avhich, however, almost invariably dis- 
appear before the next inspection. This paar has been called f)y 
the natives the " mother paar " under the impression that the young 
oysters that come and go in fabulous numbers migrate or are carried 
inward and supply the inshore paars with their populations. Dur- 
ing a careful investigation of the Periya Paar and its surroundings 

"Mr. llornoll is now iiiafinc l)k)logist to the Ceylon government Mud iiisi>ect()r 
of the pearl banks. — W. A. II. January, 1905. 



488 THE PEARL FISHERIES OF CEYLON. 

we satisfied oursehes that there is no basis of fact for this belief; 
and it became clear to us that the successive broods of young oysters 
on the Periya l*aar, amounting probably within the last quarter 
century alone to many millions of millions of oysters, which if they 
had been saved wouhl haA'e constituted enormous fisheries, have all 
been overwhelmed by natural causes, due mainly to the configuration 
of the ground and its exposure to the southwest monsoon. 

The following table shows, in brief, the history of the Periya 
Paar for the last twenty-four years: 

Feb., 1880. Ahuiulance of young oysters. 

Mar., 1882. No oysters on tbe hank. 

Mar., 188.3. Abundance of yoinig oysters. 6 to 9 months old. 

Mar., 188-t. Oysters still on bank, mixed with others of 3 months old. 

Mar., 1885. Older oysters gone, and vei\v few of the younger remaining. 

Mar., 188G. No oysters on bank. 

Nov., 1887. Abundance of young oysters, 2 to .3 months. 

Nov., 1888. Oysters of last year gone and new lot come, 3 to G months. 

Nov., 1889. Oysters of last year gone : a few patches 3 months old present. 

Mar., 1892. No oysters on tbe bank. 

Mar., 1893. Abundance of oysters of (> months old. 

Mar., 1894. No oysters on the bank. 

Mar., 1895. Ditto. 

Mar., 1896. Abundance of young oysters. 3 to G months. 

Mar., 1897. No oysters present. 

Mar., 1898. Ditto. 

Mar., 1899. Abundance of oysters, 3 to G months old. 

Mar., 1900. Abundance of oysters 3 to G months old ; none of last year's 
remaining. 

]Mar., 1901. Oysters present of 12 to 18 months of age. but not so numerous as 
in preceding year. 

Mar., 1902. Young oysters abundant, 2 to .'! months. Only a few small 
iiatches of older oysters (2 to 2i years) remaining. 

Nov., 1902. All the oysters gone. 

It is shown l)y the above that since 18S0 the bank has been natur- 
ally restocked with young oysters at least eleven times without yield- 
ing a fishery. 

The 10- fathom line skirts the western edge of the paar, and the 100- 
fathom line is not far outside it. An examination of the great slope 
outside is sufficient to show that the southwest monsoon riuniing up 
toward the Bay of Bengal for six months in the year, must batter 
with full force on the exposed seaw^ird edge of the bank and cause 
great disturbance of the bottom. AVe made a careful survey of the 
Periya Paar in March, U)0'2. and found it covered with young oysters 
a few months old. In my })reliminary report to the Government, 
written in July. I estimated these young oysters at not less than 
100,000 millions, and stated my belief that these were doomed to 
destruction and ought to be removed at the earliest opportunity to a 



TITK rK.MM. IMSIIF.niK.S OF CF.VI.ON. 489 

saftT locality furtlu'i- iiishoi-c. Mi-, lionicll was iiutliorizcd l»v llif 
^()\(M'ii()i' of (\'vloii (o ciiii-y out this rccoiniiKMidation, and went to the 
IVriya Paar early in NovimiiIhm' with hoais and a|)|)lianc('s suitable 
for the work, hut found he had aiiixcd too hi(e. 'I'he southwest mon- 
soon had intervened, tlu' l)e(l had apparently heen swept clean, and 
the enormous po])ulation of young- oysters, which we had seen in 
March, and which might have been used to stock many of the smallei- 
inshore paars, was now in all probability either buried in sand or car- 
ried down the steep declivity into the deej) water outside. This expe- 
rience, taken alono- with what we know of the })ast history of the bank 
as revealed by the insj^ectors' rej)orts, shows that whenever young 
oysters are found on the Periya Paar they ought, without delay, to be 
dredged up in bidk and transplanted to suitable ground in the Cheval 
district — the region where the most reliable paars ai'e placed. 

From this example of the Periya Paar it is clear that in considering 
the vicissitudes of the pearl oyster banks we have to deal with great 
natural causes which can not be removed, but which may to some 
extent be avoided, and that consequently it is necessary to introduce 
large measures of cultivation and regulation in order to increase the 
adult population on the grounds, give greater constancy to the sup- 
ply, and remove the disappointing fluctuations in the fishery. 

There are in addition, however, various minor causes of failure of 
the fisheries, some of which we are able to investigate. The pearl 
oyster has many enemies, such as star-fishes, boring sponges which 
destroy the shell, boring mollusks which suck out the animal, internal 
Protozoan and Vermean parasites and carnivorous fishes, all of which 
cause some destruction and which may conspire on occasions to ruin 
a bed and change the prospects of a fishery. But in connection with 
such zoological enemies it is necessary to bear in mind that from the 
fisheries point of view tiieir influence is not wholly evil, as some of 
them are closely associated with peai'l production in the oyster. One 
enemy (a Plectognathid fish) which doubtless devours many of the 
oysters, at the same tiuie receives and passes on the parasite which 
leads to the production of pearls in others. The loss of some individ- 
uals is in that case a toll that we A-ery willingly pay, and no one would 
advocate the extermination of that particular enemy. 

In fact, the oyster can probably coj^e well enough with its animate 
environment if not too recklessly decimated at the fisheries, and if 
man will only compensate to some extent for the damage he does bv 
giving some attention to the breeding stock and " spat," and by trans- 
planting when required the growing young from unsuitable ground 
to known and reliable " paars.'' 

Those were the main considerations that impressed me during our 
work on the banks, and, therefore, the leading points in the conclu- 



490 THE PEARL FISHERTER OF CEYLON. 

sions given in my proliiuinarv report (July, 1002) to the governor 
of Ceylon ran as follows : 

I. The oysters we met Avith seemed, on the whole, to be very 
healthy. 

'2. There is no evidence of any epidemic or of nuich disease of any 
kind. 

'^. A considei'ahle numher of i:)arasites, both extei-nal and internal, 
both Protozoan and ^"ermean, were met with, but that is not uuusual 
in molluaks, and we do not regard it as atfecting seriously tiie oyster 
population. 

4. Many of the larger oysters were reproducing actively. 

5. We fouud large (juantities of minute " s})at " in several places. 
G. We also found enoi'iiions quantities of young oysters a few 

months old on many of the ]>aars. On the Periya Paar the number 
of these probably amounted to over 100,000 million. 

7. A very large number of these young oystei's never arrive at; 
maturity. There are several causes for this. 

8. They have many natural enemies, some of which we have deter- 
mined. 

9. Some are smothered in sand. 

10. Some grounds are nnich more suitable than others for feeding 
the 3'oung oysters, and so couducive to life and gi'owth. 

II. Probably the majorit}' are killed by overcrowding. 

12. They should therefore be thinned out and transplanted. 

13. This can l)e easily and speedily done, on a large scale, by 
dredging from a steamer, at the proper time of year, when the young 
oysters are at the best age for transplanting. 

14. Finally, there is no reason for any despondency in regard to 
the future of the pearl oystei- fisheries, if they are treated scientific- 
ally. The adult oysters are plentiful on some of the paars and seem 
for the most part healthy and vigoi'ous, while young oysters in their 
first year, and masses of minute spat just deposited, are vei-y abun- 
dant in many places. 

To the biologist two dangers are, hoAvever, evident, and, paradox- 
ical as it may seem, these ai'e overcroAvding and oA'erfishing. Put the 
superabundance and the rislv of depletion are at the opposite ends Oi 
the life cycle, and therefore both are possible at once on the same 
ground — and either is sufficient to cause locally and teni})orarily a 
failure of the pearl oyster fishery. What is required to obviate these 
two dangers ahead and insure more constancy in the fisheries, is 
careful supervision of the banks by some one Avho has had sufficient 
biological training to understand the life problems of the animal, 
and Avho Avill therefore kuQAV Avhen to carr\' out sim])le measures oi: 
farming, such as thinning and transplanting, and Avhen to advise as 
to the regulation of the fisheries. 



THE PKAiir. FrsiiKijii'.s ok ckvi.on. 491 

In connection with ciiKivnlioii and liansplantation, there are vari- 
ous points in strncliirc. i'('|)r()(lucli<)ii. life-history, growth and liahits 
of tlie 03'stor which we had to deal willi. and some of which we were 
al)U' to dcterniino on Ihc haid<s, while others haxc heen the subject of 
Mv. Ilorncirs work since, in the little niai-ine lahoratorv w'> estah- 
lished at Galle. 

Although (Jalle is at the opposite end of the ishind form the pearl 
l)aidx:s or JNfanaar, it is clearly the hest locality in Ceylon for a marine 
lahoratorv — both for general zoology and also foi- working at pearl 
oyster j)r()blems. T>iittle can be done on the sandy exposed shores of 
Afanaar island or the Tiight of (V)ndatchy — the coasts op])osite the 
pearl banks. The tisheries take place far out at sea, fi'oni 10 to 20 
miles oft' shore; and it is clear that any natural history work on the 
pearl banks must be done not from the shore, but as we did, at sea 
from a ship during the inspections, and can not be done at all during 
the monsoons because of the heavy sea and useless e.\i)osed shore. 
At such times the necessaiy laboi-atory work supplementing the 
previous observations at sea can be carried out much more satisfac- 
torily at Galle than anj'where in the Gulf of Manaar. 

Turning now from the health of the oyster population on the 
" ])aars," to the subject of pearl formation, which is evidently an un- 
healthy and abnormal ])i'oc(>ss, we find that in the Ceh^on oyster 
there are several distinct causes that lead to the production of pearls. 
Some pearls or pearly excrescences on the interior of the shell are due 
to the irritation caused by boi-ing sponges and burrowing worms. 
French writers have made similar observations in the case of Donax 
and other Lamellibranchs; and Dubois (1901) has nioiv recently 
ascribed the production of pearls in nuissels on the French coast, to 
the presence' of the lar\a of Distomum margaritarum. Jameson 
(1902) then followed with a more detailed account of the relations 
between the pearls in Mytilus and the Distomid larva% which lie 
identifies as Distonunu ( Urachycielium) sonuitcM-ia' (Levinson). 
Jameson's observations were made on niiissels obtained partly at Bil- 
liers (Morl)ihan), a locality- at which Dubois had also worked, and 
l)artly at the Lancashire Sea-Fisheries marine labortoi-y at Piel in 
the Barrow Channel. Finally, Dul)ois has just iiublished a further 
note in which, referring to the causation of pearls in Mytilus, he 
says: "En souuue ce que ce dernier [Garner | avait vu en Angle- 
terre en 1871, je Fai retrouve en Bretagne en 1901. Quelques jours 
apres mon depai't de I>illiers, M, Lyster Jameson, de Londres, 
est venu dens la mr-nie localite et a confirme le fait observe par 
Garner et par moi." But Jameson luis done rather more than that. 
He has shown that it is probable (his own words are " there is hai'dly 
any doubt ") that the parasite causing the pearl-formation in our 



492 THE PEARL FISHERIES OF CEYLON. 

common mussel (not in the Ceylon "pearl oyster") is the larva of 
Distomum soniateria>. from the eider duclv and the scoter. He also 
believes that the larva iiihahits Tapes or the cockle as a first host 
Ix'fore jrrettinii' into the mussel. 

We have found, as Kelaarl did. that iu the Cevh)n })earl oyster 
there are several different kinds of worms connnonly occurring as 
])arasites, and we shall, I think, be able to show in onr final report that 
Cestodes, Trematodes, and Nematodes are all concerned in pearl 
formation. TJnlike the case of the European mussels, however, we 
find so far that in Ceylon the most important canse is a larval Cestode 
of the Tetrai'hynchus form. Mr. Hornell has traced a considerable 
part of the life history of this parasite from an early free-swimming 
stage to a late larval condition in the file fish (Halistes mitis) which 
frequents the pearl banks and ])reys upon the oysters. We have not 
yet succeeded in finding the adult, l)ut it will probably prove to infesi 
the sharks or other large Elasmobranchii which devour Balistes. 

It is only due to my excellent assistant, Mr. James Hornell, to state 
that our observations on pearl formation are maiidy due to him. 
During the comparatively limited time (under three months) that 1 
had on the banks I was mainly occuj^ied with what seemed the more 
important question of the life conditions of the oyster, in view of the 
frequent depletion of particular grounds. 

It is important to note that these interesting 2:)eai"l-formation para- 
sites are not only widely distributed over the IVianaar banks, l)ut also 
on other parts of the coast of Oylon. Mr. Hornell has found Balistes 
with its Cestode ])arasite both at Trincomalie and at Galle, and the 
sharks also occui- all around the island, so that there can be no ques- 
tion as to the probable infection of oysters grown at these or any other 
suitable localities. 

There is still, however, much to find out in regard to all these 
points and other details affecting the life of the oyster and the pros- 
perity of the pearl fisheries. Mr. PTornell and I are still in the mid- 
dle of our investigations, and this must be regarded as only a prelimi- 
nary statement of results which may have to be corrected, and I hope 
will be considerably extended in our final report. 

It is interesting to note that the Ceylon Covernment Gazette of 
December 22 last announced a pearl fishery to commence on Febru- 
ar}^ 22, during which the following banks would be fished: The 
Southeast Cheval Paar, estimated to have -fl) million oysters; the 
East Cheval Paar, with 11 millions; the Northeast Cheval Paar, 
with 13 millions; the Periya Paar Kerrai, with 8 million — making in 
all over 80 million oysters. 

That fishery is now in progress, JNIr. Hornell is attending it, and 



THE I'KAKL FISIIKKIKS (»K CKVION. 4UH 

we liopc lha( it may result not^ iiicivly in a larj^c rcvonuo from pearls," 
but also ill considcrahlc additions to our scientific knowledge of the 
oysters. 

As an incident of our work in Ceylon, it was found necessary to 
fit up the scientific man's workshop — a small laboratory on the edge 
of the sea — with experimental tanks, a circulation of sea water, and 
facilities for microscopic and other work. For several reasons, as 
was mentioned above, we chose Galle, at the southern end of Ceylon, 
and we have every reason to be satisfied with the choice. With its 
large bay. its rich fauna, and th? sheltered collecting ground of the 
lagoon within the coral reef it is probably one of the best possible 
spots for the naturalist's work in eastern tropical seas. 

In the interests of science it is to be hoped, then, that the marine 
laboratory at Galle will soon be establisluMl on a permanent basis, 
with a suitable equii)ment. It ought, moreover, to be of suflicient 
size to accommodate two or three additional zoologists, such as 
members of the staff of the museum and of the medical college at 
Colombo or scientific visitors from P]uroj)e. The work of such men 
would help in the investigation of the marine fauna and in the eluci- 
dation of practical problems, and the laboratory would soon become 
a credit and an attraction to the colony. Such an institution at 
Galle would be known throughout the scientific world, and would 
be visited by many students of science, and it might reasonably be 
hoped that in time it Avould perform for the marine biology and the 
fishing industries of Ceylon very much the same important functions 
as those fulfilled by the celebrated gardens and laboratory at Pera- 
deniya for the botany and associated economic problems of the land. 

a It was a most successful fisliery. A still lar,i;cer one, bringing in over a mil- 
lion i-ui)ees to the (iovernmcnt, was held in 1!>04. and there are now excellent 
liros[)ects for an iniiiortant fishery in the spring of 1U05. — W. A. H., .January, 
1905. 



FLYING FISHES AND THEIR HABITS. 



By Theodore Gill. 



Flifjht is a procMiiineiit attribiitt' of tcrrostrial animals and is more 
especially associated by inost persons with the birds, but it is by no 
means an uncommon faculty. Indeed, not to be able to fly is the ex- 
ception for land animals, if number of species determine such a 
problem. This w\\\ be evident when it is ivmembered that all but a 
small percentage of insects fly, and insects arc far more numerous 
than all other inhabitants of the land combined. Furthermore, the 
birds, whose chief attribute is the power of fliglit and adaptation 
therefor, are more numerous than all other terrestrial vertebrates to- 
gether. We nuiy repeat, therefore, that non-flight is exceptional and 
tlight the normal provision for animals generally; flight, indeed, has 
been developed anew, time after time, in animals with limbs of the 
ambulatorial type. 

The power of flight is also generally attributed to certain fishes, and 
it is interesting and significant that the adaptation and power which 
enable fishes to course through the air have also been developed in 
several entirely distinct groups. The faculty exists in its greatest 
perfection in tAvo widely distijict families, one (the Exoccetids) being 
unarmed, soft-finned fishes of the group called Synentognathi and 
the other {the Dactylopterids) being armed acanthopterygian fishes 
related to the Gurnards. There are other fishes — among them rela- 
tions of the Exocoetines and Dactylopterids — which have the power 
of progressing through the air to some extent, but their power to do 
so is so nnich less than those generally called flying fishes that they 
need not be considered here. Those to be now described will there- 
fore be confined to the two families indicated — the Exoccetids and 
Dactylopterids, 

In all the flying fishes the power of flight, or rather sustentation in 
ihe air, is effected in the same manner, that is, by the elongation of 

■495 



496 FLYING FISHES AND THEIR HABITS. 

the rav^ oi" the i)octoral tins and a correspond in<2; extension of the 
inter-radial nienibrane." By this amplification of surface the fishes 
are bnoyed up in the air. The pectoral fins are not used in the 
impulse which takes them out of the water; the sole impellino; organ 
is the caudal fin. The muscles of the pectoral fins of flying fishes 
are little, if any, more developed than in fishes having normally 
strong pectorals. This weakness of the muscles operating the pec- 
toral members contrasts remarkably with the great development of 
the pectoral and other muscles which impart the power of real flight 
to bats and birds. 

A noteworthy coincidence is the limitation of flying fishes to the 
ocean — the great expanse of waters. None are found in bodies of 
fresh water, however large they nuiy be, and this is equally applical)le 
to the tropical sea lake of Tanganyika as it is to the northern Lake 
Superior. The only approximate exception has been indicated by 
the French traveler, Jacques Savorgnan de Brazza, who claimed 
that the Tittle PcDitodon, huchhoJzi of the fresh waters of West Africa 
has the faculty of emerging from the water and sustaining itself for 
a short time in the air; thus it may be regarded to some extent as '' a 
fresh water flying fish," as Boulenger has stated. The extent of the 
Pantodon's aerial excursions must l)e very limited, however, as the 
extension of the pectoral fins is comparatively limited; in fart, its 
excursions must be leaping rather than Hying. 

This Pantodon (P. huchJwlzi) is the sole known representative of a 
peculiar African family, the Pantodontids, related to the Osteoglos- 
sids. The only authority for considering it a Hying fish is the des- 
ignation given to it by the French traveler, Jacques Savorgnan 
de Brazza. Pie obtained a single specimen at Xganchou (or Gant- 
shu), on the Congo, while obtaining water for drinking, and it was 
exhibited in a collection made by him as a flying fish (" petit poisson 
volant").'' As such it is illustrated in the Cambridge Natural His- 
tory (VII, 559) by Boulenger, who calls attention to it as '' observed 
by M. de Brazza to be a freshwater flying fish." The fish only 
attains a length of al)out 4 inches. 

The very words of the travelers and others, whose observations have 
been utilized, are preserved when the continuity of the narrative 
permits. 

a The rays to some extent cor respond to or are homologous with the digits of 
tlie wing of a hat or bird, and the " wing" of a fish is therefore more like that 
of a hat than that of a bird; the wing of the tish. however, corresponds oidy 
to the distal i)ortion of the hat's wing — that i)eyond the carpel bend. 

6 Revue Scieutidque, t. 38, p. IS, 1S80. 



FLYING FISHES AND THEIR HABITS. 497 

I. TUK P]X()((KT()I1) FlYINC; FlHIIlOS. 

I. 

The Exococtids, or true flying-fish family, manifest considerable 
diversity in form and in extension of the jaws, but agree in having the 
siipramaxillaries only in contact (and not united) with the intermaxil- 
laries, lower pharyngeals united in a broad triangular body, third 
pair of upper pharyngeals much enlarged, and the vertebrae desti- 
tute of zygapophysoid processes. They naturally fall into three 
groups or subfamilies, the Flying fishes proper or Exoccetines, the 
Sauries or Scomberesocines, and the Ilalfbeaks or Hemirhamphines. 

Another very characteristic feature is the course of the lateral line; 
this is developed low down on each side of the abdomen and above 
the anal fin to the lower lobe of the caudal. 

The flying fishes proper, or Exocoetines, have both jaws rounded or 
simply angulated in front, and the pectoral fins are generally greatly 
enlarged and adaj^ted to the sustentation of the body in the air. Not- 
Avithstanding this striking specialization of the group, there are con- 
siderable differences. All agree, however, but in various degrees, in 
provision for emergence by leaping from the water and for progress 
in the air. 

The form is adapted for the life most of them lead; the subfusi- 
form shape, with a quadrate periphery and with the sharp cut front, 
is fitted for progress in water as well as air Avith the least friction. 
The elongated lower lobe of the caudal enables a final strong u})ward 
impulse to be given to the leaping fish ; the pectoral and ventral fins 
are enlarged with the maximum of surface to sustain the body in the 
air and the minimum of weight in the framework. Their foremost 
rays are also sharp edged forward so as to act, in analogy with cut- 
waters, as " cutairs " as well as cutwaters. The air bladder is greatly 
enlarged and filled with a gaseous emanation (mostly nitrogen), 
which diminishes the relative weight of the body. 

The flying fishes are mostly true pelagic animals, and some — one or 
more — may be met with in midocean in every tropical and sub- 
tropical sea, while a few wander into northern and southern tem- 
perate regions. Although such ma}^ be the case, however, most of 
them probably live within 100 or 200 miles of land, and the geo- 
graphical distribution of some, at least, is not much less restricted 
than that of ordinary shore fishes. "About 65 species " have been 
described, and of those about 20 have been found in American seas, 
the others, of course, being limited to that extent at least. Five of 
the American species have not been found elsewhere, Cypselurus 
xenoyterus^ C. calif ornicus^ and C. callo'pterus being known only from 
SM 1904 32 



498 FLYING FISHES AND THEIE llABITS. 

tho Pacific coast of America, and C . gihhifrons and C. cyanopterus 
from the Atlantic. The others enjoy a wide range and most are 
found both in the Atlantic and Pacific. 

There is a notable nniformity in size for so large a group, the 
extremes for full-grown of different species being near 8 inches at 
one extremity and 18 at the other. About a foot is near the average 
and a foot and a half appears to be the usual length of the full-grown 
Californian flying fish (Ci/pseJurns calif ornieKs) , and sometimes at 
least attained by several others. 

All are gregarious and keep quite close together in large — sometimes 
very large — schools. They often swim at or very near the surface of 
the water, with the pectoral and ventral fins pressed close to the body, 
or at least not far divergent from the sides and below, and are pro- 
pelled " by rapid, long, sweeping strokes of the tail and posterior 
half of the body.'' But every now and then the pectoral fin on one 
side is slowly expanded to its full extent for the purpose, it appears, 
of simply stretching them for exercise, as they swim on without 
turning with the fin open. The elfect of this expansion appeared 
to Hugh Smith '' exceedingly striking and pretty, the fin looking 
like silver, and when several of the fish Avere in company the flash 
caused by a fin being opened, now here, now there, now on one side 
of a fish, and then on the other, heightened the etfect considerably. 
It was curious to note, when the expanding fin Avas closed, hoAv com- 
pletely it disappeared, altering the appearance of the fish entirely." 
Sometimes in sport, sometimes to escape pursuing enemies, Avith 
increased vigorous moA^ements of the tail, they spring out of the 
Avater, immediately spread their pectoral and A^entral fins, and start 
an aerial progress knoAvn as flight. 

The so-called flight of the flying fishes has been the subject of much 
heated controversy. The coolest and most scientific treatment of 
the question has been made by Karl M<>bius, and most of the best 
equipped recent iuA'cstigators have come to the same or similar con- 
clusions as he did. Flying fishes do not fly any more than flying 
squirrels, flying opossums, flying lemurs, flying lizards, or -flying 
frogs; they do not flv like birds or bats or most insects. The ansAver 
to the question, " Do flying fishes fly? " Avill therefore depend on Avhat 
is called flight. If flight is the act or result of a volitional series of 
beats of the Avings, as in birds, then fishes do not fly ; if the Avord be 
extended to cover the use of quasi-Avings for inactive sustentation of 
the body or as parachutes, as in flying squirrels or flying opossums, 
then flying fishes may fly. 

Mobius (1878, 1885) contended that "Flying fish are incapable 
of fying [the italics are his] for the simple reason that the muscles 
of their pectoral fins are not large enough to bear the Aveight of their 
h>ody aloft in the air. The pectoral nuiscles of birds depressing their 



FLYINO FISMES AXF) I'll KIR HAIUTS. 499 

Winers woiffh, on an avorao^o, one-sixth of the total Avoifjht of the body, 
Iho pectoral muscles of bats one-thirteenth, the nnisoles of the pectoral 
fins of flvinii: fish onl}' one thirty-second. The inipidse to which 
flyin<r fish owe their lono- shootinjj passafft" throuo;h the air is deliv- 
ered while they are still in the water by the powerful masses of mus- 
cle on both sides of their body, which are of much greater breadth 
than in the case of the herring: oi' s^w other fish of their own size." 

The movement of the pectoral fins, described generally as flickering, 
vibrating, or flapping, " is only a vibration of their elastic membrane, 
and is to be referred to the same laws as those which govern the 
flapping of a tight-set sail when a ship under a stiff' breeze is driving 
close to the ^^ind. The flapping or vibration at once springs up 
whenever the sail gets parallel to the wind. 

" The more rapidly a flying fish darts out of the water the greater 
is the mortientum with which the air presses on the outspread pectoral 
fins. Should, now% the atmospheric pressure induce these fins into a 
horizontal position parallel to the wind their vibration is a necessary 
result. Let the outspread pectoral fins of a dead flying fish be held 
horizontally before the opening of a pair of bellows and the fins will 
be seen to vibrate as soon as the current of air passes under them.'" 

Such are the conclusions enunciated by Mobius in a special memoir 
(in German) on the movements of flying fish through the air( 1878) 
as epitouiized in 1885. These, however, were vigorously objected to 
by C. O. "Whitman (1880), who urged, "Admitting that in form, 
size, length, and structure the pectoral fins of Exoca'tus are less well 
adapted to flight than the wings of most birds, there is still ami)le 
room to l)elieve, on anatomical and physiological grounds alone, that 
they are capable of executing true flight." 

Opposed to this view are the exj^ressed opinions of many distin- 
guished traveler-naturalists. Moseley, who circumnavigated the 
globe as naturalist of the great Challenger Expedition, exi)ressly 
declares that he had " never seen any species of KxoeoituH flap its 
wings at all during flight. These fish merely make a bound from the 
water and skim, supported by their extended fins, the tips of which 
meanwhile quiver in the air occasionally from the action of air cur- 
rents against them, and sometimes from the shifting a little of their 
inclination by the fish." Jordan and Evermann (1896), Avho had 
many opportunities for observation " under most favorable condi- 
tions," were convinced that " no force is acquired while the fish is 
in the air. On rising from the water the movements of the tail are 
continued until the whole body is out of the water. "\Miile the tail 
is in motion, the pectorals seem to be in a state of rapid vibration, 
but this is apparent only, due to the resistance of the air to the motions 
of the animal. While the tail is in the Avater the ventrals are folded. 
AVhen the action of the tail ceases, the pectorals and ventrals are 



500 FLYING FISHES AND THEIR HABITS. 

spread and held at rest. They are not used as wings, but act rather 
as parachutes to hold the body in the air." Boulenger, the best- 
informed ichthyologist of Europe, voices the general verdict in the 
apt declaration (1901) that " nearl}^ all" the family "are in the 
habit of making great leaps out of the water," and this tendency 
culminates " in the flying fish {Exoccetus)^ which skip or sail through 
the air in a manner the explanation of which has given rise to much 
controversy. According to the latest evidence, the sole source of 
motive power is the action of the strong tail while in the water. No 
force is acquired while the fish is in the air. The pectorals are not 
used as Avings, but as parachutes." 

The contention that flying fishes have the power to materially 
modify their course in midair is generally thought by qualified ich- 
thyologists to be not corroborated by their structure or by exact 
observation. Louis Agassiz (1868), however, was "confident not 
only that they change the direction of their flight, but that they 
raise or lower their line of movement repeatedly without returning 
to the water." 

They must have leverage to w^ork from, and after leaving water 
they must go as their final impulse directs or as the wind determines. 
Even those who contend that they can direct their course may admit 
that " when in mid flight " they can not " suddenly divert their 
course." Mathew (1873) observed one which "emerged from the 
sea within 10 yards of the ship and flew directly toward her, coming 
so violently into contact with the ship's side that it fell stunned, and 
floated astern on the surface of the sea with its pectoral fins rigidly 
expanded." Possibly they may be able sometimes to flex the tail 
or fold one fin in the air and thus change the course to some degree. 

The extent of flight at a single stretch naturally varies with cir- 
cumstances. The best estimate has been that an ordinary flight may 
extend from 30 to 50 yards in less than twenty seconds, but this may 
be reenforced by dipping in the sea and obtaining a new basis for pro- 
pulsion. Mathew (1873) thought that "200 yards would be an 
umisually long fliglit," but had " occasionallv seen individuals go at 
least 100 yards farther," and believed " if hard pressed the}^ could 
even exceed that." Mr. F. A. Lucas writes to me : " I have seen 
this fish come aboard from leeward and have seen them fly very much 
more than 200 yards. I have seen them come up to the vessel's bow, 
but thej^ did not alter their course; simply folded their wings and 
dr()j)j)ed back again." Tie explained that " the distance a fish travels 
through the air, after ricocheting from a wave top, before it again 
touches the sea is often much greater than its original flght, and 
besides gaining fresh impetus from this contact they also remoisten 
their gills and refresh themselves." Jordan and Evermann esti- 
mated that " they will ' fly ' a distance of from a few rods to more 



PLYilfft FfSTTES AND TTTKTR TTABTtS. 501 

than an olghth of a mile, raivly risino- niorc than 3 or 4 foot. * * * 
Wlion the fish begins to fall, the tail touches the Avator. when its 
motion again begins, and whh il the apparent motion of the pectorals. 
It is thus enabled to resume its flight, which it finishes with a splash. 
When in the air it resembles a large dragon fly. The motion is very 
swift, at first in a straight line, but later deflected into a curve. The 
motion has no relation to the diivction of the wing. "When a vessel 
is passing through a school of these fishes, they spring up before it 
as grasshoppers in a meadow." 

When a flying fish falls on the deck of a vessel it may spasmod- 
ically and very rapidly move its pe(;torals upward and downward, 
nnd such a movement may be made while the fish is " on the wnng " 
and give the appearance of '' vibration,*' so often claimed to be 
observed. This action doubtless adds something to the force of the 
leap from the water, but it is by no means actual flight. 

It has been claimed that flying fishes are not often to be seen in 
periods of calm and a smooth sea; it is. when the winds blow strong 
and the waves roll high that most of them make their appearance. 
" It is easy to understand how the action of the wind combines favor- 
ably or otherwise with their flight." "As any air in strong motion, 
when it impinges against obstacles (a ship's side or Avaves) rises, it 
raises also the fish, so that this flies over the wave or may come on 
board the ship. In short, as Professor Mobius proves in detail, all 
the phenomena observed may be fully explained by the combined 
action of the oblique projection forward and the wind." " Directly 
against the wind they commonly fly farther than with the wind, or 
when their course and the direction of the wind form an angle 
together. Most Exocmti wdiich fly against the wind or with the wind 
continue, during their whole course of flight, in the direction in which 
they come out of the water. Winds coming laterally upon the orig- 
inal course of the Exocmti deflect these into their direction." 




Fin. 2.-Showing how the flight of tho flsh is influenced hy wind current. 

The qualification that the fishes are '" not often to be seen in periods 
of calm " of course implies that they may be sometimes. Kneoland 
(1870) specifically assorts that he saw them rise "out of a perfectly 
smooth sea." hitman (1880), a much more reliable observer, also 
had " often seen great numbers of these fish when tho air was almost 
motionless— so still that not a ripple could be discovered on the glossy 
surface of the w^ater ''—and it even seemed to him " that they were 



502 FLYING FISHES AND THEIR HABITS. 

not iiuich, if at all, less iiunieroiis on such occasions than when there 
was a moderate wind."' 

Flying fishes rarely fall on board of a ship during the light of 
day, but j)assengers on the old sailing vessels were frequently told 
in the morning that fishes had been caught on deck during the night 
and would serve as part of their breakfast. According to Mcibius, 
" they mostly fall upon ships which lie not higher than 2 to 3 meters 
above water, and when these are sailing on a wind (the wind coming 
obliqueW from beyond) or with half a wind (the wind coming at 
right angles against the ship) and are sailing rapidly. Flying fish 
never come on board from the lee side, but always and only from the 
weather side." All those " which withdraw from ships fly, during 
their whole course through the air, near the surface of the water." 

Collingwood (]8<)8) had '"known them fly into a cabin through 
the open port, attracted by a light burning within." The fact of 
entry into the cabin need not be questioned : the inference that it was 
deliberate is a nonsequitur. 

The flight of a flying fish is never brought to an easy and grace- 
ful conclusion like that of a bird, but ends in a fall and with a splash. 

Those flying fishes which keep near the coasts and resort to shal- 
low water may occasionally, at least, seek and rest on the bottom, as 
Goode (1876) has recorded that Cypselunis exsiliens did. In Ber- 
muda he received a small living fish which he kept alive '" for some 
hours." Its " favorite position was on the bottom of the dish, where 
it would remain with its pectorals and ventrals expanded, looking 
very like a large butterfly sunning itself on a flower. AVhen dis- 
turbed it would f©ld its fins close to the sides of its body and swim 
about with great velocity by rapid, long, sweeping strokes of the 
tail and posterior half of the body. The extent to which it flexed 
its body was quite remarkable, almost reminding one of the motions 
of a shark. When much excited it would rise into the air with a 
sudden spring, its pectorals expanded, seeming to have no difficulty 
in leaving the water in a space less than a foot in diameter." 

Flight, indeed, must be considered as only an occasional exercise of 
flying fishes, and the normal condition must be one of rest or quies- 
cence alternating with natation, which may frequently be extended 
into emergence from tlie water or flight. For economical purposes 
the fishes are looked for in the water and in the water are caught, as 
will be seen by the notices respecting their capture given in subse- 
quent paragraphs of this article. 

II. 

The food of the flying fishes consists of such animal organisms as 
occur in the seas which they frequent. They are numerous crusta- 
ceans, some mollusks, such as Pter()i)ods and Janthinids, and various 



FLYING FISHES AND THEIR HABITS. oOo 

small fishos. The fishes aiv, in fad, almost omnivorous, as may bd 
uiult'istood from the means of capture used by professional fislier- 
men and anglers. 

III. 

Their procreative eharacteristies are very little known. Accounts 
are eontradictoi'v, but it may be because there is a difference in this 
respect between different species or even different shoals. Mathew 
{187o) was "inclined to fancy'' that they spawned ""in mid-ocean," 
for he had "" seen them not an inch Ion*; more than 1,000 miles from 
the nearest land, and tlies(> minute specimens when in the air bear a 
strong resemblance to locusts on the wing." Many young have been 
observed and collected by others in mid-ocean. There is, in fact, little 
if any, doubt that some do spawn far from land. Howard Saunders, 
an excellent ornithologist, however, found large shoals about rocks 
and inferred that they were there to spawn (1874). " At the Chincha 
Islands, on the coast of Peru,'' Saunders observed numbers of an un- 
identified species make " their appearance about the last week in 
March, and the water round the rocks was alive with them, the nu- 
merous fissures and crevices seeming all too few for their require- 
ments. Looking down through the clear water," he " could see a 
moving mass struggling for places, and, respecting a long narrow rift, 
one of the sailors remarked that it was ' just like the pit on boxing 
night.' " As many as were Avanted " could be taken Avith the hand 
from the fissures in the rocks." At the time Saunders '' never noticed 
these flying fish ' on the wing,' " and inferred that " doubtless they 
were too heavy." " 

The authoi- of an article on " flying fish catching in Barbados," con- 
tributed to (liambers's Journal (1894), claims that there is " no doubt 
that they deposit their ova in the massive banks of ' Sargasso 
[ = Sargassum] bacciferum,' or Gulf-Aveed, which is met with in such 
vast quantities as to impede a vessel's progress through it. Through 
the pleasant groves and avenues of these floating forests the young 
fry in millions disport in comparative security." The author claims 
also to have " often amused " himself " by catching the young fry 
thrown up with piles of Oulf-weed on the beach and seen masses 
of the spawn, like huge bunches of Avhite currants, entangled among 
its close-knit fronds." These bunches were probably from the Anten- 
narioid mouse-fish {Pterophryne histrio), and the young fry may 
have been misidentified. 



o Mr. F. A. Lucas writes to me that " in regard to the flying fish, Exncoctus, my 
experience at the Chinc-ha Islands was similar to that of Mr. Saunders e.xcept 
that I did not find tliem so al)undant. I saw thcni in tlie water and caught 
some with the grains, but never saw one fly there." 



504 FLYING FISHES AND THEIR HABITS. 

Whatever may be the facts respecting the places selected for 
spawning, the eggs of flying fishes are undoubtedly like those of their 
relatives. Some eggs obtained near Naples in June and July, 1894, 
were identified as those of an exocoetine, and described by F. 
Kaffaele. They were found attached to floating bodies (straws that 
had been used for packing fruit) from Avhich they hung like pigmy 
grapes. They had characteristic filaments, not very unlike those of 
Scomberesox, 

The early post-embr3^onic stages are unknown, but undoubtedly it 
will be found that the pectoral fins at first are short and that their 
large size is acquired some time after birth. 

IV. 

Flying fishes are beset by enemies in the form of large pelagic 
fishes, such as dolphins, tunnies, bonitos, and albicores, as well as 
sharks and porpoises. In order to help them escape, the develop- 
ment of the 2)ower to leave the water has resulted, and most of the 
near relatives of the flying fishes Avhich could not acquire the power 
have long since ceased to live, for the nearest living relatives belong 
to other groups — the Sauries and Half-beaks. The pursuing fishes 
are as swift and active in the water as the flying fishes, and even 
escape from the water serves often only to delay capture, for the 
pursuing fish may catch one as it falls from the air. The history of 
a shoal of flying fishes pursued by one of dolphins would be an 
interesting as Avell as tragic one. Is pursuit ever continued till the 
shoal is exterminated or a few escape through their insignificance in 
the vast waste of water ? 

There is another phase of danger, attributed in many a popular 
work, from which the flying fish are practically — that is, generally — 
exempt. The danger is often represented as twofold, a piscine 
Charybdis and an avine Scylla. But danger from birds in the air 
is almost nothing. 

It must not be supposed, because a shoal of flying fishes is observed 
at sea with many in the air at one time, that pursuers are necessarily 
in the rear. Notwithstanding the statements of some travelers, the 
fishes may be unmolested, and their aerial excursions may be merely 
the manifestation of exuberance of spirit and in obedience to an 
instinct which impels not only them but all their distant relations — 
the sauries, halfbeaks, and garfishes — to leap from the water. Pos- 
sibly a school may enjoy a lifetime free from molestation. 

F. Mathew, " during long voyages in the Atlantic and Pacific 
oceans," had many " opportunities of closely observing the habits of 
flying fish," but he had never " seen a bird of any description attempt 
to seize them while in the air," nor was he " acquainted with anyone 
who has witnessed such a thine:."' He knew of " no bird that could 



FLYING FISHES AND THEIR IIARITS. 505 

nianaoro to catch thorn. The various species of albatross, petrels, 
gulls, skuas, and shearwaters are either too slow on the wing or too 
small." While it is not impossible that birds may occasionally i)nr- 
sue fishes, sueh attacks nuist be (juite exceptional and not habitual, as 
popular accounts would lead the reader to suppose. Such stories 
have been repudiated also by Saunders (1874), Pascoe (1881), and 
the Earl of Pembroke. 

Nevertheless, flying fishes, under some circumstances, can be caught 
by birds and are caught in numbers. Collingwood, in his " Ram- 
bles of a Naturalist" (1808), records a notable case. " Pratas 
Island" is a coral islet of the China Sea (latitude 20° 42' north, 
longitude 110^ 43' east) , " about a mile and a half long and half a mile 
wide," frequented by numerous gannets and, on examining the food 
vomited by disturbed birds, Collingwood " found it to consist invari- 
ably of fiying fish, generally of a large size, and usually but slightly 
digested. There were sometimes six or seven of these fish, in other 
cases only three or four, in two or three cases a squid or two inter- 
mixed with them." Yet " not a single fish w^as observed on the wing " 
near the islet. The ingested fishes " were probably taken in the water 
by the birds." 

V. 

Flying fishes are of considerable gastronomic importance and are 
regarded by most of those who have tried them as very savory and 
surpassed by few others. Perhaps the best known to epicures are the 
Cypselurus syeculiger (long known as the Exoccetus volitans) and 
the C'ypHeluims californiciis. The palatability of the former was 
appreciated at Barbados by the wTiter, and Jordan and Evernuin have 
declared the latter to be " an excellent food fish, sometimes taken l\v 
the thousand off Santa Barbara." On account of their mode of 
occurrence, however, regular fisheries are entirely exceptional. 

One region, the island of Barbados, is quite celebrated on account 
of the numbers of a species of flying fish just mentioned {Cypselurus 
specidiger) that occur in the vicinity. It is " so abundant in some 
seasons of the year," says R. H. Schomburgk (1848), '' that they con- 
stitute an important article of food, and during the season a large 
number of small boats are occupied in fishing." " Such large num- 
bers are occasionally caught that they meet with no sale and are 
thrown away or used as manure." They form a staple in the way of 
fish for the island and every visitor during the proper season is ad- 
vised to try the flying fish and, heeding, does not repent. " The suc- 
culent delicacy of the fish is certainly a thing to remember." So 
records a writer in Chambers's Journal (1894). 

The fishing grounds are " little more than 10 or 12 miles frojn 



506 FLYING FISHES AND THEIE HABITS. 

Jiome," some not more than 5. " There are about 200 boats engaged 
in the fishery. Nowise notable for grace of form or elegance of rig, 
they are substantial, undecked vessels of from 5 to 15 tons capacity, 
built in the roughest manner, and furnished in the most primitive 
way. The motive power is a gaif mainsail and jib and a couple of 
sweeps for calms. * * * ^^j^^ ^^^^ leaves the ' canash ' (harbor) 
before daybreak, each skipper taking his own bearings and working 
for the spot which he thinks will furnish the best results. * * * 
The tackle used is of the simplest kind. A wooden hoop 3 feet in 
diameter, to which is attached a shallow net with inch meshes; a 
bucketful of — well, not to put too fine a point on it — stinking fish; 
a few good lines and hooks, and a set of grains, form the complete . 
layout. * * * As soon as the boat is hove to and her way 
stopped, the usual exuberant spirits and hilarious laughter are put 
and kept under strong restraint, for a single sound will often scare 
away all fish in the vicinity and no more be seen that day. The fish- 
erman leans far over the boat's side, holding the hoop diagonally in 
one hand. The other hand, holding one of the malodorous fish 
before mentioned, is dipped into the sea, and the bait squeezed into 
minute fragments. This answers a double purpose; it attracts the 
fish, and the exuding oil forms a ' sleep ' or glassy surface all around, 
through which one can see to a great depth. Presently sundry l)lack 
specks appear far down; they grow larger and more numerous, and 
the motionless black man hanging over the gunwale scarcely breathes. 
As soon as a sufficient number are gathered he gently sweeps the net 
downward and toward the boat withal, bringing it up to the siu'face 
by drawing it up against the side. Often it will contain as many 
fish as a man can lift; but so quietly and swiftly is the operation per- 
formed that the school is not startled, and it very often happens that 
a boat is filled (that is, 7,000 or 8,000 fish) from one school. More 
frequently, however, the slightest noise, a passing shadow, will alarm 
the school; there is a flash of silvery light, and the water is clear, not 
a speck to be seen. Sometimes the fleet will return Avith not 1,000 
fish among them, when prices will rang(> very high until next day, 
when, with 50 or ()0 boats bringing 5,000 or 6,000 each, a penny will 
purchase a dozen." 

This mode of catching flying 'fishes has been in vogue in Barbados 
for a couple centuries. G. Hughes (1750) observed that "when 
full grown and in perfection " they " will neither fly out of [man's] 
way, as they do from the dolphin, nor will they dive into the deep, 
but suffer themselves to be taken up with the hand or with a small 
lioop net, which is the common and most expeditious way of taking 
them." 

The mode of fishing thus described is designated by tlie Barba- 
dians as " driving " and is one of the three special ways of taking the 



FLYING FISHES AND THEIR HABITS. 507 

three principal market fishes of Barbados, the others being " snap- 
periii^ " for the snapper (Ocyurus chrysurufi) and " brinimin<>: " 
for the bi'ini or bream {KteliH ocnlatus). Accordin<i' to a rejjort of 
the West India royal commission of 1897, '' the flying-fish season 
extends over about seven months — from December to July. After 
July " the fishes '"■ become poor in size and quality and develop what 
are known to the fishermen as ' feathers,' but are probably some kind 
of parasite," probably the crustacean Penella^ '' which infests their 
bodies and renders them unfit for food." 

The royal commission of 1897 reported that " an average catch 
may be put down at 1,000 to 1,500 fish, but it not unfreipiently hap- 
pens that the take reaches as high a figure as 5,000. The heaviest 
catches are made in April and May. At such times the supply 
sometimes exceeds the demand, when great quantities are w^asted or 
merely used as manure. The average quantity landed monthly at 
Bridgetown fish market in a good season is 390,000, and the average 
price obtained may be put down at the rate of 150 fish for one dollar. 
The owner of a boat takes a third of the whole catch ; the remaining 
two-thirds is divided among the hands. The building and fitting of a 
ilying fish boat is about $150, and the annual outlay in repairs, etc., 
amounts to about $30." 

Flying fishes might be regarded as unlikely subjects for fly an- 
gling, but Francis Smith (1875) experimented w^ith gratification to 
himself. " The monotony of a sea cruise was pleasantly broken on 
the 25th of January by an occurrence so unusual as to excite the 
wonder of the oldest sailors. Oif the coast of Peru a large shoal of 
flying fish appeared and afforded excellent sport during the after- 
noon. A variety of baits were employed in their capture — bits of 
red bunting, small spoon baits, and artificial minnows and flies — the 
most taking being a large red fly and a small gilt minnow, but all the 
baits mentioned caught some. In following the minnow through the 
water, the fish would open both pectoral fins and poise themselves 
for a rush at it; spreading the wings also had the effect of checking 
their progress if their suspicions were aroused by a near inspection 
of the bait. ^\lien hooked they proved a very game fish, taking out 
several yards of line in their first rush, and often taking a flight in 
the air, line and all." 

VI. 

The many species of the exocoetine flying fishes naturally appear 
under many modifications of varying significance and have been 
segregated in six genera. Four may be diagnosed here. 

Most of them have the snout short and the low^er jaw more or less 
obtuse, the pectorals elongate and extensible nearly or quite to the 
caudal, the ventrals inserted behind the middle of body and extensible 



508 FLYING FISHES AND THEIR HABITS. 

beyond the first rays of anal; fnrther, the ventrals are acutely elon- 
gated at the third ray and the first two short and compressed. The 
species so distinguished are combined in the genus Cypselurus. 

A few species agreeing in most respects with the Cypsehirl differ in 
the insertion of the ventral fins in advance of the middle of the body 
as well as in their brevity; the fins are also truncate or emarginate 
and very short, not extending to the anus; the pectorals are moder- 
ately elongate. They constitute the genus Exocoetus and the only 
species of the entire group {E. r oh' tans) known to Linnaeus is one. 

A few other species agreeing fundamentally with the Exocceti have 
the ventrals submedian and rather short but angulated by the exten- 
sion of the third ray; the pectorals are moderately long; further- 
more, the roof of the mouth is more dentigerous, the vomer, palatines, 
and pterygoids being armed with teeth. These have been set apart 
in a genus called ParexoccBtus, the type of which is the P. mento of 
the Indian and Sunda-Moluccan seas. An American species is the 
T. hillianus of the Caribbean Sea. 

One species is separated from all others by the pike-like head, the 
snout being longer than the postorbital region and the lower jaw 
elongated, projecting in front and with a flat, triangular area; the 
pectorals are moderately elongated, the ventrals rather short and 
rounded behind. The single species is the Fodiator acutus of the 
tropical American seas. 

The differences thus indicated are coincident with others. 

II. The Dactylopterids, or Flying Gurnards. 

I. 

The Dactylopterids, otherwise known as Flying Gurnards or Fly- 
ing Gurnets, differ radically and in innumerable characters from the 
true Gurnards, and vastly more from the Exocoetoid flying fishes, but 
a few external ones Avill suffice to give an idea of the family. The 
elongated body is somewhat swollen upward under the first dorsal, 
and covered with hard-keeled scales ; the head is oblong and parallel- 
opiped, and the suprascapular bones form an integral part of the 
skull, and extend far back as flat spiniform processes on each side of 
the dorsal fin; the preoperculum of each side is armed at its angle 
with a long horizontal spine reaching backward under the pectoral; 
the jaws have granular teeth; the branchial apertures are con- 
tracted ; the dorsal fins short, as is also the anal ; the pectorals divided 
into tv,'o parts, a small anterior and a very large posterior, which 
spread out sideways; the ventrals imperfect and not far apart. The 
pectorals are set upon osseous bases (actinosts) differentiated for the-. 
two parts. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. -Gill 



Plate I. 







^%^ 




jw^»/iijij^u^^*^gjil^jj«.[iMyjiaiui|ip^i wi'jH# ^'.fijw^. 




■**4 



^^r^ 





'<^ 




1, Cypselurus californicus; 2, Cypselurus exsiliens; 3, Cypselurus RONDELETII; 
4, Cypselurus speculiger. 



Smitr.sonian Report, 1904.— Gil 




FODIATOR ACUTUS, DaCTYLOPTERUS VOLITANS, AND AlR BLADDERS. 

1, Foilidlor acntuft: 2, Darti/lniitfrnx rolitans, in youiifresl post-cuphalaciintlms stage, masnitied 
twice: S. air bladder of 'Dnrti/loptrnin, seen from below, with the lateral intrinsic muscles: 
4. air bladder I rJKht lotie) with insertion of extrinsic nniscle and pyramidal appendage 
held by hook; f>. air bladder (right lobei interior witli the incomplete diaphragm; 6, Trigla. 
cuciiliix: air bladder, fnjm below, to contrast with that of Dacti/liipUrus. 



FLYING FISHES AND THEIR HABITS. 



509 



ai-v 



As almost ovory cxlornal feature is charaeteristic, so arc many 
internal |)ai-ts. In connection with the lonj>:itu(linal arch or convex- 
ity of the back, so different from the straightness of that of the Gur- 
nards, a very remarkable deviation of the air bladder from normal 
relations is noteworthy; the dorsal curvature, indeed, is a coordinate 
of an otherwise unexampled j)osition of the bladder. 

The air, or swimming, bladder is unique in character, as Calder- 
wood states, in that " it is not situated below, but [mostly] above, 
the vertebral column, not forming part of the abdominal contents, 
but situated dorsally in a special cavity [recess] of its own. When 
the abdominal cavity is opened ventrally, and the viscera removed, 
only the ventral surface of the bladder is seen, forming part of the 
dorsal boundary of the cavity. Seen from this point of view, it is 
iormed of a broad central portion, white and tendinous, and of two 
lateral portions strongly muscular." The physiological significance 
of this conies into view when 
we consider one of the habits 
or aptitudes of the fish. 

The structure and position 
of the air-bladder are adapt- 
ed for keeping the Dactylo]i- 
terid with back upward in 
the air in spite of the form 
of the body and its relation 
to the vertebral axis. " The 
bladder, being prevented 
from expanding when the 
pressure from the surround- 
ing w^ater is suddenly re- 
moved, the high dorsal position of the secondary portion becomes of 
the greatest possible advantage." It helps the fish to emerge from 
the water and maintain its equilibrium in the air. 

Such are the most characteristic features of the Dactylopteruls com- 
mon to all the members of the family. The species are few — about 
half a dozen — and closely related to each other, all being strictly 
j congeneric. 

It might naturally be supposed that fishes so specialized in form, 

so peculiar in ajipearance, and so remarkable for the development of 

their pectoral fins and their unusual functions, would have received 

, distinctive English names, but such is not the case. Flying gurnards 

I or flying gurnets are the general names given in most works, but 

they are mere book names and not of the common people; further, 

, the names are deceptive and have often misled, for the fishes are not 

j very closely related to the true gurnards or gurnets, although more 

j so than to any other fishes. Bat-fish is a designation for the coimnon 




Fiu. 2. 



Ductylopterus volituns: Shoulder girdle. 
(After Bouleuger.) 



510 FLYING FISHES AND THEIR HABITS. 

Dactylopterid of the Atlantic in Barbados, and Cook (or Cooke) 
is another peculiar to Jamaica. The former name, however, is better 
known in connection with the strange pediculate fish,. Malthe ves- 
pertilio^ and the latter (Cook) is the specific term of a wrasse in 
England and of species of Holocentrids {H olocentrus and Myripris- 
tis) in Barbados. 

The most common species, or at least the most generally knowMi, 
and the only one certainly ascertained to be an inhabitant of the 
Atlantic Ocean, is the Dactylopteriis volitans. The best and fullest 
account of its habits has been given by E. Schmidtlein (1879), who 
had good opportunities to observe it in the tanks of the zoological 
station at Naples. A translation from the German of the greater 
part of his observations is interwoven into the following account. 

The appearance of the living fishes, as it appeared to Schmidtlein, 
is thus described : 

The flying gurnard {Daetylopterus voUtans) occurs about Naples 
in great numbers, principally in the autumn and until the late win- 
ter, and approaches very close to the gurnards as regards its habits. 
Its appearance is very peculiar and suggestive of its mode of life. 
The bony cap which, like a stifl' mask, incloses the skull, gives to it 
a peculiar physiognomy from which, however, the bull-like feature 
of the gurnards {Trigla) is absent, because the eyes are placed later- 
ally and the snout declines al^ruptly from the frontal. The result 
is a well-formed head of the right proportion to the size of the body, 
and from which the large, round eyes with red irises are moved in 
a jerky manner and look out with a wondering expression. To 
this armored part of the body is joined the nearly conical trunk, 
covered w'ith hard scales and with a complete equipment of fins. 
First come the pectorals which are modified into large organs for 
flying and provided in their anterior portion with short individually 
movable rays which, hoAvever, are connected by a membrane. Be- 
hind the throat are the ventrals w-hich have been advanced forward; 
they are for the most part folded and directed downward. The 
dorsals are delicate and provided with a glass-like transparent 
membrane. 

The coloring of the fish appears at a distance and superficially as 
a mixture of dark tints, but is found to contain, on closer examina- 
tion, a great quantity of many-colored markings. The back is col- 
ored a beautiful brown, with dark spots and bands. The sides, as 
far as the middle of the belly, are pale rose, with silvery reflections, 
and the outspread wings show in the center rows of black and light 
eye-like spots, wdiich recall the coloring of tropical butterflies by 
their markings and gay tints, together Avith the magnificent blue 
with which they are hemmed in. This beautiful sight may be espe- 



Smithsonian Report, 1904.— Gill. 



Plate III. 







Dactylopterus volitans. 

1, From the side, with expanded win^s, seen edgewi.xe: 2. from above, witli Ivft wiiij? partly 
expanded: 3, from below, to show isthmus, narrow interpectoral area, and side: 4, faee. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904.— Gill. 



Plate IV. 






^v 




S^<%' 







Dactylopterus volitans— Different Stages of Growth. iAfter Lutken.) 



FLYING FISHES AND THEIR HARITS. 511 

cially ciijoyod when lookin*; al the lishos from above in tlie sunli<;ht 
or in the broad daylight, while inducing them to unfold their wings 
by holding a stick close to them. Then golden green specks ai)pear 
all over the body: at every motion the fins play in all colors in dif- 
ferent places, like the wings of the butterfly known as the purple 
emperor, and also the gay mingling of l)eautifully distril)uted tints 
on head and back contribute to tlie splendor of the brilliant creature. 
Besides, Daetylopteriis possesses the faculty of changing its colors 
to light or dark. This is particularly fortunate for the young ones, 
where the bottom is similarly colored, as, because of their small size, 
they are more exposed to the attacks of enemies. It has also been 
observed that the young flying gui-nards far more commonly stay 
on the bottom of the basin than the largei- fishes, and liei'e harmonize 
splendidly with the sand, especially where it is mixed with multi- 
colored gravel. Furthermore, the coloring of such specimens is 
also less pronounced and the markings are darker, more monotonous, 
and frequently indistinct. At dusk the fishes are often scarcely 
visible. 

The adult Dactylopterids like to stay on the bottom of their basins, 
where they stand and walk about on the ends of their downward- 
turned ventrals like the Gurnards do on their "" legs," while they wag 
their dorsal fin and tail and scratch in the sand with the short ante- 
rior portion of the pectoral to look for food. They are gregarious 
and swim about in a body, even when in company w^ith other fishes. 
They show great resemblance to the Gurnards in their movements 
and in the use of their fins, and what has been said with regard to the 
Gurnards in this respect is applicable to the Dactylopterids, with the 
exception that the latter swim somewhat more slowly and leisurely, 
and possess a stronger inclination for flying than the former. Then- 
power of flying may not be far behind that of the Exocoetines. 

But although at first sight so well adapted for semiaerial life, the 
Dactylopterids are nevertheless essentially bottom fishes, or seek rest 
on some surface. Sir John Eichardson long ago (1865) noted that 
" in the clear waters of the Boca Tigris, off' Trinidad, great sculls of 
these fish may be seen near the bottom, perpetually fluttering their 
large wing-like pectorals." Of course, in mid-ocean some other kind 
of resting place must be secured and there the beds of sargasso weed 
furnish suitable resorts. But near land they resort to the bottom 
at considerable depths, and in temperate regions, on the approach 
of winter, retreat to still greater depths to secure a warmer and more 
equable temperature. 

The power of flight has been attributed to Dactylopterids by most 
authors, and is there not a fine colored plate illustrating a school of 
them in mid-air in a very popular work on natural history (Brehm'g 



512 FLYING FISHES AND THEIK HABITS. 

Thierleben) ? Against this power other authors have pronounced 
and denied the fishes any aptitude for aerial progression. On the one 
hand, Signor Le Bianco, of the zoological station of Naples, informed 
W. L. Calderwood (1889) that " it is met with in the bay at a depth 
of from 20 to 60 meters, say 10 to 30 fathoms, but is never seen on the 
surface." (Le Bianco, in an article of his own (1888) had indicated 
it as scarcely pelagic (rararaente pelagico). On the other hand, some 
reliable men and good naturalists have testified to their ability to 
emerge from the water and progress for short distances through the 
air. Neglecting all observations recorded more than half a century 
ago, comparatively recent notices confirm old statements, to some ex- 
tent at least. 

Richardson, the best informed ichthyologist of the middle of the 
last century, also especially testified to their aerial excursions 
" They are able to rise from the water and fly through the air like 
the Exocoeti or flying fishes already mentioned. With such force 
does the DactylopteruH pursue its flight that it will spring upon the 
deck of a ship of war, and it has been known to strike a sailor on the 
forehead and knock him down." 

Moseley, the naturalist of the great Challenger Expedition, attested 
that '• whilst out in a boat collecting animals amongst the gulf weed " 
he saw Dactylopterids around him and " watched these little flying 
fish fly along before the boat at a height of about a foot above the 
water for distances of 15 or 20 yards," and he " chased them and 
caught one or two with a hand net amongst the weed." 

Moseley believed that the Dactylopterid had a somewhat different 
flight from the Exocoetids. He had '' never seen any species of 
Exococtus flap its wings at all during its flight. These fish merely 
make a bound from the water," but he believed he could " not be 
mistaken " in the conviction that he had " distinctly seen species of 
flying gurnets move their wings rapidly during their flight. I 
noticed," says he, " the phenomenon especially in the case of a small 
species of Dactyl opteitts with beautifully colored wings, which 
inhabits the Sargasso Sea. Whilst out in a boat collecting animals 
amongst the Gulf Aveed, these small flying gurnets were constantly 
startled by the boat and flew away before it, and as they did so 
appeared to me to buzz their wings very rapidly. Their mode of 
flight seemed to me to be closely similar to that of many forms of 
grasshoppers, which can not fly for any great distance, but raise 
themselves from the ground with a spring and, eking out their 
momentum as much as they can by buzzing their wings, fall to the 
ground after a short flight. 

" Doctor Mobius, who similarly watched the flight of a species of 
flying gurnards, maintains that neither form of flying fish flap 
their wings at all during flight. I no not consider the question as 



FLYIN(J FISIIKS AN'I) TIIKIi; IIAIJITS. 518 

vot s('( nl rest. Of course no flying lisli vnu i-aisc (hciiisclvcs in Uie 
;iir by means of their \vin<j:s alone." 

Schmidtlein believed that (lieii- power of flying was probably not 
far behind that of the Exocoetids, so far as the fislies have l)eon 
ol)served in nature, but in the aquarium experimentation on this 
(juestion is not to be thought of. On the contrary, the authorities 
of the Naples station have to ])rotect the basin for these (ishes with 
bars and nets to prevent theii* escaj)ing, because they would other- 
wise fly either through the window into the open air oi- to either side 
into the adjoining tanks. And, as a matter of fact, the station loses 
a rather large number of the Hslies because they jump out and fall 
against the walls, or on the bridge over the aciuarium, and perish 
there. 

II. 

The Dactylopterids are naturally carnivorous, but their food is 
determined by the size of the mouth and their environments. Ac- 
cording to Schmidtlein, their snuiU mouth permits them to swallow 
only small morsels; therefore they like to take crustaceans, such as 
shrimps {Crangon or Chkjo) and prawns {Palaemon) , young crabs, 
and tiny fishes, which they find dead on the bottom. 

III. 

W. P. Calderwood and G. P. Bidder told Ernest Holt (18J)8) " that 
when a Dactylopterus was placed in a tank at Naples containing 
some small sharks the latter bit pieces out of its pectorals, a liberty 
resented by violent grunting." It is added that "gurnards and 
dories also grunt under circumstances of discomfort, the sounds 
being of the nature Avhich appears from experiment to be pi'rceptible 
by fishes. They may possibly subserve a function which is in part 
protective."' 

The Dactylopterids emit sounds under certain conditions, botii in 
the water and out of it. While Calderwood was killing a couple of 
specimens "sounds exactly similar to those of the Ournard were 
distinctly heard, and simultaneously with each sound a distinct con- 
traction of the bladder could be felt from the exterior. These con- 
tractions w^ere quite independent of any movements of the mouth or 
operculum." Schmidtlein never heard the sounds emitted voluntarily 
under w^ater, nor observed the movement of the gill covers which 
])roduce them. Experiments relating to tliis subject weiv nnide by 
him and details promised for another ])lace. but never published. 
The testimony of Calderwood and P)i(lder. however, supi)lies the defi- 
ciency in Schmidtlein's observations. 

The sounds thus noticed are produced by the action of four nuiscles 
SM 1904 33 



514 FLYING FISHES AND THEIR HABITS. 

upon the air-bladder already noticed. The muscles are two for each 
lobe, a large intrinsic and' a small extrinsic muscle. The nervous 
impulses are communicated to them by the last pair of cerebral nerves. 
The intrinsic muscles, by contraction, produce vil)ratory qui^'erings 
(fremissements) which, reinfoi'ced by the bladder, become sonorous 
vibrations easily perceptible. These muscles, contracting while 
they vibrate, may change the shape of the l)ladder, stretching or relax- 
ing such or such a part of the organ of this flexible sounding-board 
(instrument de renforcement), and by such changes modify the 
several qualities of sounds. The whole subject has been discussed at 
great length by Dufosse in his memoir cm the sounds produced by 
European fishes, ])ublished in the Annales des Sciences Naturelles in 
1874. In this article those who may be especially interested in the 
subject will find explanatory details. (See especially 5. serie, t. 20. 
article 3. pp. 47-51, (>7, (58, 70, S0-S4.) 

But the air-bladder Avith its accessories is not the only sound- 
producing organ. The peculiar modifications of the suborbital bones 
and opercular apparatus are associated with a peculiar function — a 
stridulation which may be distinctly heard at a considerable distance. 
The pontinal or third suborbital bone is articulated so that it can 
be bent at a right angle with the enlarged second, and when the 
spiniform preoperculum is flexed outward the little pontinal is 
extended across and at a right angle between the reentering angle of 
the preopercular sinus and the second suborbital. When the pre- 
opercle is depressed and pushed forAvard and inward, its anterior 
articular surface grates upon the hinder angle of the lower jaw, and 
a distinct stridulatory sound is produced, reminding one of the 
strident notes of orthopterous insects, such as crickets or locusts, and 
grasshoppers. Attention was called to this fact and a full explana- 
tion given by W. Sorensen in 1884. 

IV. 

Oviposition probably occurs in the spring and the eggs are doubt- 
less cast and fertilized near the surface of the water, and there 
the earliest days of the fish's life are spent. The earliest stages are 
unknown, but it is in the postlarval growth that the greatest inter- 
est is centered. AVhen, or rather before, the young has acquired a 
length of a third of an inch, it has a helmet whose posterior processes 
reach as far back as the soft dorsal and the preopercular spines 
extend to the anal; at the same time the pectoral fins are short and 
entire, and the spinous dorsal little developed. This condition, so 
different from that manifest in maturity, continues, but with dimin- 
ishing disprojiortion, till the length of nearly or quite 2 inches has 
been attained. Fishes possessing these characters were believed by 
the old ichthyologists to represent a peculiar genus, to which the 



FLYING FISHES AND THKIP. HABITS. HIT) 

apt name (U'plialdcantlnis (spiiiod head) was <riveii. But lietween 
the very littlo fish and the one about 2 inches kmg all irradations 
occur. With advancin<>: age the spines become more and more 
reduced, the pectorals elon<jated, ditlVrentiation of each pectoral 
into t^vo distinct parts supervenes, and the spinous dorsal is at length 
as large as the soft. The mature or true Dactylopterus stage is thus 
attained. This condition of matui"ity, however, may be hastened or 
delayed so that it may be attained when the fish is smaller than many 
which still have the attributes of immaturity, or it may be delayed 
until the fish has reached a length of 2 inches even. The transfor- 
mation of the Cephalacanthus into the Dactylopterus, nevertheless, 
takes place rapidly at last. 

V. 

The Dactylopterids are not usually looked upon as game fishes, but 
Moseley, while on the Challenger^ hooked one at Cape Verde of which 
he tells in his Notes by a Naturalist. " The trammel net was set 
nightly in the harbor by Mr. Cox, the boatswain, and yielded some 
fine fish. Among these were some flying gurnets, Avhicli evidently, 
from their being caught in the trammel, frequent the bottom a good 
deal like our wingless gurnets. One was caught with a line at the 
bottom. I hooked one, however, near the surface, when fishing with 
a rod and trout tackle for small mackerel and silver fish. This was 
quite a novel experience in fishing. The flying fish darted about like 
a trout and then took a good long fly in the air, and in an instant was 
down in the water again and out again into the air, and being beyond 
my skill in playing wdth such light tackle, soon shook itself loose and 
got free." 

Moseley not onl}^ made an attempt on the fish as an angler, but also 
as a foAvler. As the Challenger, on its way from Ascension Island, 
approached Boatswain Bird Island, and " as the vessel steamed along 
the shore of the main island, large flying gurnets {Dactijlopterus) ^'' 
it appears from the narrative (p. 298), "rose, scared by the vessel, 
and skimmed rapidly away in front of the bows. The attempt was 
made to shoot them on the wing, a novel experiment, but qtiite with- 
out success. The flight was rapid and the boat was in constant 
motion, pitching and rolling; no doubt in calm weather the thing 
might be done," thought the narrator. 

The Dactylopterids are naturally quite sensitive to cold. At Na- 
ples it was practically impossible to keep a lot through the winter. 
According to Schmidtlein, their life is considerably shortened by the 
cold of the winter, and it has a very disturbing influence on their 
health, makes them sluggish and dull, and but rarely permits a speci- 
men to live through the winter months till spring. The fish is, there- 
fore, a periodical guest of the aquarium, the supply being renewed 
e-very season. 



THE STATURE OF MAN AT VARIOUS EPOCHS." 



By A. Dastke, 



An idea which has gained popidar credence, and still hazily lingers 
in many cultivated minds, is that man of the present day is descended 
from a handsomer, stronger, and more superb ancestral race. In the 
course of time, it is said, the powerful sap that nourished the mighty 
bodies of our ancestors has, little by little, become corrupted or 
exhausted, until debilitated, feeble, and nervous generations have suc- 
ceeded the productive, rich-blooded, and exuberant generations of old. 

Without going to such an extreme, some students, more positive 
and more scientific, think nothing more than that the human body 
has undergone a sort of evolution of decline, manifesting itself in a 
progressive diminution in size. These ideas, which appear in various 
forms, becoming more and more veiled, are nothing else than rem- 
nants of an ancient superstition, the belief in giants. 

What is a giant ? Does it exist ? Can a race of giants exist ? Has 
such a race existed? These are questions that in all times have 
excited a lively interest. The imagination of the ancients was fed on 
stories in which the heroes were either giants or else mere i^ygmies. 
Even to-day tales about giants enliven our infancy. The reality of 
their existence excites such universal curiosity that it should not be 
cause for wonder that it has given rise to interminable and fruitless 
discussions among savants. 

Of all these writings — of these innumerable fabulous stories of 
combats between giants and gods and the discussions about giants — 
nothing worthy of consideration remains. Recent works upon the 
subject are of more value. The problem now presents itself in a 
more practical aspect than it did to our j^redecessors. We have 
more records than they had; we are in a position to know whether 
man's size has varied in prehistoric and historic times, and whether 
there ever existed aggregations of colossal men meriting the appel- 
lation " race of giants." Since it is incontestable that individuals 

a Translated from Revue des Deux Mondes. Paris, September 1, 1904. 

517 



518 THE STATURE OF MAN AT VARIOtJS EPOCHS. 

of crigantic size do appear from time to time, a H,vstematic study of 
the subject should be undertaken and wouhl yiekl invahuibh' results. 
The research begins by investigating the significance and reason for 
the existence of these monstrous beings, and ends by learning v>^hy 
they can not reproduce and perpetuate colossal creatures like them- 
selves. 

Two sciences, anthropology and medicine, control the study of 
the subject, and the progress of our knowledge in the matter is due 
to both of them. The present article will deal with the subject 
chiefly from the anthropological standpoint, more especially in the 
light thrown uj^on it by contemporaneous anthropological research. 
The part which medical science played in explaining the causes of 
aberrations from the normal size is sufficiently definite and limited 
to warrant separate examination without inconvenience to the 
student. A word or two about it here will, therefore, be enough. 

Anthropologists have applied the rule and compass to the study 
of primitive man, and they have measured in whole and in part the 
remains of our ancestors that lived in the geologic ages, the humble 
hewers of stone from the Quaternary age up to the dawn of the 
present era. Popular fancy exaggerated their size innnoderately, 
for anthropologists, through the implements of an exact science, 
have found that instead of being giants they were men of only 
mediocre height. Anthropologists have also unearthed skeletons of 
men that lived since the beginning of the historic period, and meas- 
urements here, too, haA^e proved that the average height of man 
shows no tendency to diminish. Scientists, then, by careful methods 
of measurement have furnished evidence in favor of the truth that 
Jean Riolan tried to establish as early as the beginning of the seven- 
teenth century, and which he clearly expresses in the title of one of 
his works published in 1618, Discourse on the Height of Giants, 
in which it is shown that in all times, even the most ancient, the 
tallest men and the giants were no bigger than the giants of the 
present day. 

To come back to the bearing of medical science upon the subject, 
it is medicine which has most recently thrown light upon the question 
of giants, and medicine maintains that to it belongs the study of 
giants in the present day, the rare few tliat now and then appear. 
Giants are men whose development instead of pursuing a normal 
course has undergone a morbid deviation, and whose nutrition has 
been perverted. They are dystrophic. Their great stature shows 
that one part has gained at the loss of another ; it is a symptom of 
their inferiority in the struggle for existence. Their condition is not 
only a variation from the ordinary conditions of development — that 
is to say, they are " congenital monsters," the study of which belongs 
to the science of teratologv — but it is a variation also from a state of 



THE STATUUE OF MAN AT VAIUOITS KI'OCIIS. 51*) 

health physiolo<i:i('nlly and normally sound; that is to say, they are 
diseased and fall within the domain of the patholof^ist. " Here, then," 
as E. Brissand says, " yon have your giants despoiled of their ancient 
and fabled prestige; mythology yields the place to pathology." 
Such is the new doctrine in its most categoric or most expressive 
form. 

The imagination of all ancient peoples was haunted by the chimer- 
ical vision of a sort of superman, like ordinar}' man, but bigger and 
stronger. These beings of perfect proportion, but of colossal stature, 
were giants. The conception has remained firmly fixed in popular 
belief, and it has been so general and so deep rooted that the question 
must perforce arise whether it did not have some foundation in re- 
ality. A priori, one is tempted to see in it the recollection, magnified 
by tradition, of a colossal race that actually existed. All mythologies, 
in fact, contain legends of giants, (rreek mythology represents huge 
beings, children of the earth, carrying on formidable conflicts against 
the gods who inhabit heaven. The details of the struggle are 
recounted in a thousand different ways; now, it is an army of giants 
who stand in battle array under the leadership of Alcyoneus and 
Porphyrion and await the attack of the inhabitants of Olympus, aided 
by the hero Hercules. Another time it is Otus and Ephialtes, who 
pile mountain ujwn mountain to scale heaven and throw burning 
rocks against it. But the wars which break out over and over again 
always end in the triumph of the king of the gods; and the giants 
doomed to inevitable defeat are struck by Jupiter's thunderbolts, 
crushed under the wheels of his chariot, and finally hurled into Tar- 
tarus. 

Historians and critics who insist that all myths have a significance 
symbolic and natural at the same, time have no trouble to explain this 
one. They find in it a reflection and personification of the subter- 
ranean forces in revolt against the laws of nature — the Greeks said 
Divine laws — which require and maintain the solidity and fixity of 
the earth. These irregular, tumultuous forces, volcanic eruptions, 
earthquakes, violent cataclysms, these agents of destruction proceed- 
ing from the bowels of the earth and loosed against the order of the 
world ; that is, against the gods, all these are giants. It is a remark- 
able fact that while the poets in symbolizing these natural forces gave 
frightful descriptions of them, endowing them with multiple mem- 
bers, with horrible heads, and enormous mouths spitting flames, the 
Greek artists, on the contrary, always susceptible to actual forms, rep- 
resented them simply with human faces and figures. For example, in 
a painting on a very ancient vase the giant Antanis is represented 
as thrown into a prostrate attitude l)y Hercules and seeking to touch 
the earth with his hands in order to draw fresh vigor from it. His 
body, though that of a man admirably proportioned, is nearly double 



520 THE STATURE OF MAN AT VARIOUS EPOCHS. 

that of Minerva, who strikes him with her hmce, or that of Hercules, 
who draws a bow" upon him. Moreover, the hugeness of the body is 
itself a rare and exceptional feature in the representations of the 
Greek artists, who quickly renounced this significant deformation, so 
that in ancient art giants would not have been distinguished from 
ordinary human beings if, after the archaic period, the custom had 
not arisen of terminating their lower limbs in the bodies of serj^ents. 
A beautiful cameo in the museum at Naples shows Jupiter crushing 
under the wheels of his chariot some serpent -footed giants whom he 
had alread}^ thrown to the ground w-ith his thunderbolt. 

Analagous legends have been transmitted to us by the historians of 
all the peoples of antiquity. Scholars have collected many references; 
to giants in the Scriptures and in the writings of profane authors. 
Sometimes the huge beings form a whole people, or a tribe, or an 
ethnic grou}), though most frequent]}^ they appear in history as excep- 
tional individuals. A list of references would be too long to be 
given here. It must suffice to mention a few sources of information, 
as Etudes biologiques sur les geans (Masson, 190-ir), by P. E. Launois 
and P. Roy. BuH'on in his work on the natural history of man gives 
some information obtained from the Memoir of Lecat read in his 
day at the academy of Rouen. Tt is there recalled that the Greeks 
attributed to Orestes a height of 11^ feet, which Pliny consented to 
reduce to 7 cubits or 10^ feet. He also mentions the skeletons of Sec- 
ond ilia and of Pusio, preserved in the gardens of Sallust. These 
could not have measured less than 10 feet. In our time Prof. C. 
Taruffi, of Bologna, in his work (Milan, 1878) on gigantism — which 
he calls macrosomy — collected a vast number of records wdiicli show 
that the general belief has threaded history that modern man is the 
dwindled, degenerate offsj)ring of. ancestors of gigantic stature. 
From this point of view the isolated specimens of giants that appear 
at long intervals would be accidental repetitions of a vanished type, 
belated representatives of an extinct race. 

This universal, deeply rooted prejudice rests upon evidence so 
manifold and so categoric that it might easily influence all but the 
scientifically ecpiipped critic, and it is not until relatively recent 
times that the man of science himself has been in a jjosition to discuss 
the evidence and cast doubt upon the belief. It may be of some value 
to recall that ideas upon the subject even in the nineteenth century 
were still sufficiently indeterminate for Silberman to feel justified in 
raising the question, in 1850, before the Academy of Sciences, as to 
whether the liuuian body has varied in size wdthin liistoric times. 
He answered the ((uestion in the negative. He affirmed that the stat- 
ure of the Egyi)tians had not changed since the construction of the 
pyramids; but some uncertainty attaches to the calculations made by 
him for arriving at the height of the contemporaries of the king 



THE STATURE OF MAN AT VARIOUS EPOCHS. 621 

Cheops in order to coini^ire their size with that, of tlie present 
generation. 

The same nneertainty does not characterize the methods of modern 
anthroi)onietrv. Only limited faith is phieed in the evidence of his- 
torians, geographers, or voyagers, and none hnt scientiHc nieasnrenients 
can be relied upon. The stature of vanished populations is ol)tained 
directly by measuring theii- skeletons or parts of their skeletons, the 
relations of which to the whole have been established by previous 
study and careful research. No one has gone further than L. 
Manouvriei" in determining i)recisely the relation, long ignored, that 
exists between the various parts of a skeleton. For the use of 
anthropologists he codified after a fashion the rules outlined of old 
by Orfila and revised by To])inard and ¥j. Kollet in France, by 
Humphry and J. Beddoe in England, and by Langer and Toldt in 
Germany. He made a sort of chart for ready reckoning, by the aid of 
which, from the dimensions of the fennn* or the tibia, we can deduce 
the height and the size of the body itself. The degree of approxi- 
mation of the results is known, flie extent of the extreme aberrations, 
the causes of the aberrations, and all the conditions, in short, for 
reducing the aberrations to a minimum. In these means of investi- 
gation contemporaneous anthropology has weapons with which to 
attack the prejudices that have long existed in regard to the gigantic 
stature of our far-removed ancestors and in regard to the j)retended 
diminution in size which the human figure has been progressively 
undergoing. 

Errors and exaggerations such as these have been collected, trans- 
mitted, and proi)agated by historians of all times. The first expres- 
sion that they received is incontestably to be found in the Bible. 
The Hebrew scriptures allude in various passages to enormous 
men — as, for example, the population found by the spies of Moses 
in the Promised Land. The prophet Amos compares these occu- 
pants of Canaan to oaks for strength and to cedars for height. The 
simile forcibly recalls almost the very words of the Poemes Barbares, 
in which the hordes of })rimitive men are described as they issue from 
dark woods and limitless deserts: 

More massive than the cedar, taller than the pine. 

In the Book of Kings the giant (Joliath is said to have been 11 
feet 4 inches tall ; and Deuteronomy narrates that the iron bed of C)g, 
the King of Bashan, was 9 cubits, or about 15 feet, long. All the 
Jews, however, did not entertain blind faith in the accuracy of these 
figures, and many of them questioned how gigantic races, so power- 
fully built, could have completely disappeared. The prince of 
scribes, Esdras, who edited the canonical books at the end of the 
Babylonian exile and freed them of errors that had crept into them, 
pleads the progressive debasement of the race. Succeeding gener- 



5 '2 2 THE STATURE OF MAN AT VARIOUS EPOCHS. 

ations grow smaller and smaller; and so the colossal statures of the 
first men have dAvindled to frailer forms. The opinion of Esdras 
appears among all peoples and in all histories of later times. The 
Greeks expressed the same idea of physical decadence, of a falling 
away from the grand stature of personages in the heroic age. Homer 
and Hesiod lament the decline, and, later, Herodotus, Pausanias, and 
Philostrates speak of it in a similar strain. Plutarch finally goes so 
far as to liken the men of his time to infants in comparison with 
the ancients. Among the Eomans the same conception is found. Re- 
call the lines of Virgil when the laborer with his plow turns up the 
bones and arms of his ancestors: " He gazes astounded on the gigan- 
tic bones that start from their broken sepulchers." Pliny in his 
natural history expresses even more extreme ideas in this regard. 
He mentions the discovery in a mountain of Crete of a human skele- 
ton G cubits long, or more than 20 meters. 

The moderns have had the same notions concerning the diminution 
of man's size. The historians of the Norse lands in many a passage 
celebrated the huge stature of the ancient inhabitants of Scan- 
dinavia. 

Belief in the former colossal height of man and his continued de- 
cline in size through the ages seemed to be verified by the discovery 
of huge bones in ancient tombs. Lecat mentions tombs in which 
were found bones of giants 15, 20, BO, and 32 feet tall. But in his 
day scholars were no longer dupes of such evidence. It was known 
at the time — that is, in the second half of the eighteenth century — 
that the enormous bones were not those of human beings, but of 
large animals. In the opinion of Buft'on they belonged to a horse 
or an elephant ; for, he says, at one time warriors were buried with 
their war horses, and so, possibly, with their war elephants. But 
in less enlightened times, the bones were taken to be those of immense 
giants and were venerated as such. Sometimes they were exposed 
at cathedral doors. According to Langer, cited by Launois and Roy, 
one could see an exhibition of this nature under the porch of the 
chapel of the castle at Cracow as late as 1872. It was composed of 
a mastodon's l)one, the skull of a rhinoceros, and one of the jawbones 
of a whale. 

Of all these finds the most celebrated on account of the discussions 
to which it gave rise was made in 1013 near Romans, Dauphine, 
by workmen engaged in digging sand. Near a building of brick they 
unearthed a skeleton 25 feet kmg. Now, it was pretended that a dis- 
covery of medallions bearing the image of Marius had been made in 
the neighborhood; and these tAvo events sufficed as ground for the 
supposition that the bones were those of the giant Teutobochus, king 
of the Teutons, who had been conquered by Marius, near Aix, in 102 
B. C , and had died soon after. Jean Riolan, physician and skillful 



tllE StATURE OF MAN AT VARIOUS EPOCnS. 523 

anatomist, said that it was an imposturo to attribute Uic Ijohcs to 
Teiitoboclius. Other men, like OnillcMneaii, royal sur*jeon, and Nico- 
las Ilabicot defended the theory, and a controversy rich in incident 
lasted five years, Tlie belief, which even in the time o^ BufFon seemed 
to lack the marks of verisimilitude, was not finally dissi])ated until 
De Blainville, in May, 1835, declared to the Academy of Sciences tliat 
the bones attributed to Teutobochus were those of a mastodon iden- 
tical Avith mastodons previously found in Ohio. 

For lack of populaticms of real i^iants, that is, men whose enormous 
stature separated them by a sort of hiatus from the tallest men one 
ordinarily sees, modern explorers have brought to our knowledge two 
races of men who are very tall without being inordinately so. They 
are called pseudo-giants. The two groups, representing the type of 
the tallest men on the globe, are the Patagonians of America and the 
Polynesians. 

The Patagonians are especially interesting. Magellan was the first 
to see them, in 1519, on the strait called by his name, between Terra 
del Fuego and the American continent. Once during the five months 
of winter that he was forced to pass in this region, wdiich he thought 
uninhabited, the Spaniards Avere visited by a native, come without 
doubt from some distance. He was gay, vigorous, confident, and he 
did not hesitate to go on board the vessel. In the written account of 
the voyage, the height of this savage is described as having been so 
great that the head of an average-sized man in the crew reached only 
to his w'aist. He was stout in proportion, his strength was consider- 
able, and his appetite commensurate with his size. Having been well 
treated, he soon brought some of his companions of his own propor- 
tions. Magellan gave them the name of Patagonians. 

If this description were to be taken absolutely literally, the Pata- 
gonians must have been about 8^ feet tall. Elsewhere, it is true, the 
author of the narrative ascribes to the natives only 7 feet inches. 
It is interesting and instructive to note the variety of estimates made 
of their height by voyagers who have seen them. Magellan accords 
them Ti feet; Commodore Byron 7 feet; the Dutchman Sebald de 
Noort 10 to 11 feet. Smaller size, however, is attributed to them by 
Commerson, traveling companion to INI. de Bougainville and the 
Prince of Nassau. He says their height is not much greater than that 
of the average-sized Frenchman, usually from 5 feet 8 inches to (5 
feet; none exceeded 6 feet 4 inches. This is far from being gigantic, 
as Commerson remarks, and he comes out very strongly against the 
fables and lies related concerning these pretended Titans. He is 
right. The Patagonians are men of great size, but they are by no 
means giants. Topinard, Avho forty years ago measured a fairly 
large number of their skeletons, assigns to them a height of 1.78m. 

The general run of anthropologists admit the division of races or 



524 THE STATURE OF MAN AT VAEIOTJS EPOCHS 

peoples into four groups, according to their average height. The 
first groiip is that of the " tall-bodied."" ranging from the English 
(1.703 meters), the shortest among them, to the Tehuelches of Pata- 
gonia (1.781 meters), the tallest, and including the Scotch (1.710 
meters), the Scandinavians (1.713 meters), the Negroes of Guinea 
( \.7'24r meters) , and the Polynesians ( 1.7G2 meters) . The second gi'oup 
is of those " above the average " (1.65 meters to 1.70 meters), which, 
beginning with the French (1.050 meters) at the bottom of the scale, 
comprises the Russians (l.(U)O meters), the Germans (1.677 meters), 
the Belgians (1.684 meters), and the Irish (1.697 meters). The size 
of the third group, that is, of those below the average, ranges from 
1.65 meters downward to 1.60 meters, and includes, among others, 
the Hindoos (1.642 meters), the Chinese (1.63 meters), the Italians 
of southern Italy, and the Peruvians. The last group is that of the 
"■ short-bodied," which includes, among others, the Malays and the 
Lapps. 

The Patagonians, then, are only tall men, but they '' hold the rec- 
ord," which fact, however, has been disputed, first, in favor of a popu- 
lation on the Upper Nile, the Dikas; next in favor of the Polynesians, 
then the Scandinavians, and last, the Scotch. 

To recapitulate: There actually exists, then, no population or 
ethnic group of giants. Specimens of giants do appear, but only in 
isolated, individual, and accidental cases. Since physicians at the 
present time liken gigantism to a malady, we may say (from now on 
borrowing their language) that this disease is nowhere endemic, that 
it manifests itself a little everywhere, but in sporadic cases under 
the influence of conditions yet to be determined. ' 

So much for the question of gigantism in present times. But the 
questi(m is not one of the present ; it is the past that perplexes, and it 
is the past with which we are concerned. 

III. 

As we have seen, it is in the past, in tlie long-distant past, in which 
tradition has placed the origin of a race of giants, who have subse- 
([uently undergone a ])r()cess of j^rogressive degradation. This thesis 
has l)een ad()])ted by a fair number of writers more or less qualified to 
judge of the matter. Some of them, like Henrion in 1718, even ven- 
tured to draw up a table giving in positive figures the series of degra- 
(hitions undergone by the human stature in the course of time, from 
Adam, said to have been 123 feet (40 meters), Abraham, 27 feet (9 
meters), and Hercules, 10 feet (about 3 meters), to Alexander the 
Great, 6.V feet (nearly 2 meters), and Ca'sar, 5 feet (1.62 meters). 
These figures are so absolutely puerile and fantastic that they do not 
merit attention. 

It is the task of anthropometry to try to estimate man's size in the 



THE STATURE OK MAN AT VARIOUS EPOCHS. 525 

various epochs of history as well as in prehistoric times and ^eoloi^ic 
a^os. For this it is necessary to arrive at some sure method of calcu- 
latin<2: the real size of the livin<r bcino; froui his skek'ton, or from 
fragments of his slceleton, found in the deposits of the Tertiary or 
Quaternary periods or in the sepulchers of historic times. The estab- 
lishment of such a method of mensuration has for many years occu- 
l)ied L. Manouvrier, and it constitutes one of his best titles to a scien- 
tific re{)utation. The basic Avork that he published on the subject 
appeared in 1892; and recently, in 1902, he crowned his efforts, as it 
were, by issuing a study '' upon anthropometric relations and the 
])rincipal proportions of the body "" (sur les rapports anthropome- 
triques et sur les principales proportions du corps). The memoir is 
of great interest to natural history in general. Parts of it are well 
worthy the attention of artists, painters, and sculptors, whose clas- 
sical canons, perhaps a bit factitious, ought to be submitted to the 
control of the science of man as he really is. 

The results of the investigations made by L. Manouvrier can be 
express(Hl in a word. They have proved that man's stature has not 
undergone any important regular variation during the hundreds of 
thousands of years that have rolled by since his first appearance upon 
the globe. So far as one can judge from the isolated specimens 
brought to light by excavations, the stature of man has undergone no 
appreciable change. In this regard civilized man is the same as 
primitive man. 

The study of animals has led to similar conclusions. In general, 
the body of animals of a certain species or of a certain variety is not 
modified; or if it is modified, the change has causes by no means dis- 
playing the character of a chronologic evolution. Geoffroy Saint- 
Hilaire, in order to show that man's stature has not necessarily 
changed since geologic times, based his arginnent upon precisely this 
fact, that the body of a domesticated animal species is identical with 
that of the wild species. 

IV. 

The furthest removed ancestor of uian seems to bo the famous 
Pithecanthropus erectus. In the course of the years 1891 and 1892, 
as may be remembered, a physician in the Dutch army, Eugene Du- 
bois, discovered near Trinil, on the island of Java, some bones of puz- 
zling appearance and with characteristics intermediate between those 
of a man and those of an anthropoid ape. There, in a deposit un- 
doubtedly of tlie Tertiary ("i)och, was a complete skull, a fennn-. and 
two molars. 

Simple as were these I'cniains, they nevertheless sufficed for assign- 
ing to its proper place and rank in the animal hierarchy the being 
from which they came. It belongs between the anthropoid ape, the 



526 THE STATURE OF MAN AT VARIOUS EPOCHS. 

ji:ibbon, and man himself. The femur, whose form indicates adapta- 
tion to an erect posture, reveals man; the skull, whose capacity is 
too small for man but a little too large for an ape, reveals a suj^erior 
anthropoid. The remains were in a state of fossilization corre- 
sj^onding to their antiquity and permitting them to be handled with- 
out danger of breaking them. They were exhibited throughout 
Europe and submitted to the examination of all competent anato- 
mists — Krause, AYaldeyer, Virchow, Luschan, Nehring, in Germany; 
Milne Edwards, E. Perrier, Filhol, in France; Cuningham and 
Turner, in England. 

At Berlin the scholars brought into prominence reasons wiiy the 
anthropopithecus could not be a man ; at London they showed w'hy it 
could not be an ape. So nothing was left the transformists but the 
conclusion that the creature, which was neither a man nor an ape, 
must be both at the same time, and that it constituted the transition 
stage from ape to man, the " missing link " of the chain that binds 
the human to the animal kind. E. Dubois assigned a height of 1.70 
meters to the anthropopitliecus ; the estimate of M. Manouvrier is 
somewhat less. The length of the femur permits us to attribute a 
height of about 1.65 meters, the average height of the European, to 
this precursor, this original ancestor of man. 

After measuring skeletons of the Tertiary epoch, as was done by 
M. Manouvrier, it was necessary to do the same for those of the 
Quaternary epoch. The task was undertaken by M. Rahon." The 
most ancient specimen of that period is the skeleton of Neanderthal, 
found in 1857 in a limestone cave of Neanderthal, between Diissel- 
dorf and Elberfeld. The first measurements, made by Professor 
Schaafhausen, showed that the relative jjroportions of the members 
w^ere those of a European of average size or a little below the average. 
Schaafhausen determined the height to be 1.601 meters; Rahon's 
estimate, 1.613 meters, is almost the same. 

It would be idle to give in detail similar measurements made of all 
the human bones of the Quaternary period that MM. Manouvrier and 
Rahon had before them either in the original or in casts. They com- 
puted the height of the man of Spy to be 1.610 meters, that of the 
man found in the clay of Lahr 1.720 meters. The latter, as is appar- 
ent, belonged to the group of " tall-bodied " men. The troglodyte of 
Chancelade, found in the more recent strata of Quaternary soil, was 
1.612 meters, the crushed man of Laugerie 1.660 meters. The aver- 
age for the four cases is 1.652 meters. 

These figures would indicate but a moderate size in our distant 
ancestors, who were contemporaries of the cave bear and chased the 

a It must be stated that th(! figures here given refer to the fleshly body, not to 
the skeleton. They give the length of the corpse as it would measure if 
stretched on the ground. Man erect and living measures 2 centimeters less. 



THE STATtTRE OF MAN AT VAIMOUS KPOCHS. 527 

inaniiiioth aiul the rhinoceros of the chainbered nostrils. They in no 
■wise resenil)le the coh)ssul bein^ created by popuhir fancy and (U'- 
scribed by the poets as " more massive than the cedar and taller than 
the pine." Nor were they '' stron<ror than the oak." They lived more 
or less miserably. The men of the tpiaternary period had already 
begun to be industrious and they fashioned implements of roughly 
hewn stone. This was the beginning of the paleolithic or old stone 
age. It must have lasted a ver}' long time, to judge from all the 
succeeding changes of climate and water courses. 

V. 

The following age is the neolithic' or new stone age. Its duration 
was also very long, sufficiently long for Europe to be covered with its 
megalithic monuments and sepulchral structures. It was the time in 
which the cutting of flint, carried on toward a state of perfection, 
ended in the fashioning of various instruments for fishing, hunting, 
or fighting. These lost the rude character of the utensils in the pre- 
ceding age, and the polishing of flint marked a turn in the affairs of 
prehistoric man. 

The bony remains of the neolithic age underwent the same patient 
investigation and the same measurements as those of the paleolithic 
age ; and IJahon and Manouvrier succeeded in determining the 
size of the people of this time, as of the preceding. Here the facts 
to work upon were much more numerous, for the number of skeletons 
that have been extracted is considerable. Conclusions were drawn 
from the examination of 429 men and 189 women. The average 
stature of the men is l.G-i5 meters, of the women 1.526 meters. But 
among these there were a number of tall and short persons, just as is 
the case at the present time. To cite several instances, the man of 
the jSIadeleine, the station next to Les Eyzies, in the department of 
Dordogne, measured 1.86 meters. The bones found at Les Eyzies 
belonged to still larger types. In this region Christy and Lartet 
exhumed from the cave of Cro-Magnon three Avell-preserved skele- 
tons, wdiich have giA^en rise to observations of extreme interest to 
anthropology. They were the skeletons of an old man, an adult man, 
and a woman, and they have served as types for the establishment of 
a race become celebrated under the name Cro-Magnon. On a merely 
superficial examination of the bones, one can tell that the persons 
nuist have been robust and tall. Broca unqualifiedly declared their 
stature to be suj)erior to the Frenchman's ; but since it was impossible 
to reconstruct a skeleton in its entirety, he Avas not in a position to 
make direct measurements and give an indisputable figure. 

Therefore it was with some hesitation that he assigned to them a 
probable height of 1.80 meters. Broca, it must be stated, for aid in 
his reconstruction could not fall back upon tables that would haA'e 



528 THE STATURE OF MAN AT VARIOUS EPOCHS. 

enabled him aiiproxiniately to deduce the size of the entire bodj^ from 
nothing but ihe measurement of a single bone like the femur. 
Tables of this sort, it is true, existed in his time, provided by physi- 
cians who practiced forensic medicine, but they did not inspire him 
with confidence because the relations between the various parts of a 
skeleton liad been established according to the principle of Paris or 
Lyon — that is, for the human structure as represented by the existing 
race of Frenchmen. But it is known that the relations between the 
various parts of the body are not tlie same in all the races of the 
present day; the principles for each are difterent. So much the 
more likely it is they would be difl'erent among i)reliistoric races. 
What is more, in a race like the French, there are two distinct types, 
each having the same measurement, but the one class is long- 
legged (macroscelic, in the term of the anthropologists), the other 
short-legged (microscelic). A priori it would seem as though all 
these difficulties w^ould dash the hope of establishing a relation more 
or less fixed between the segment of a limb and the entire body. 
But these are the very difficulties that the methods of anthropometry 
were devised to overcome, and, as has been said, the method of Mon- 
sieur Manouvrier has succeeded. 

AVhatever the means employed (and it is useless to recall them 
here), Broca decided upon 1.80 meters as the height of the old man 
of Cro-Magnon. Some other investigators estimated it at 1.78 
meters, and Topinard Avent so far as to say it w^as 1.90 meters, a 
figure altogether exceptional and unexampled up to this time in 
the case of prehistoric man. The estimates of Rahon and Manou- 
vrier were lower. They fixed the height of the old man at 1.780 
meters; that of the woman at 1.658 meters, and that of the adult man 
at 1.667 meters. Even these numbers betoken great height, superior, 
certainly, to the average height of the inhabitants of France. The 
race of Cro-Magnon, then, was a race of tall-bodied men. 

The stature of the man of Mentone, whose skeleton was discov- 
ered by Eiviere in ground of the neolithic period of the Quaternary 
age, was even larger. The caverns which exist in the red escarp- 
ments rising from the broken stone road between Mentone and Vinti- 
mille have furnished a fair number of bones, the last specimens being 
those of a child, a woman, and a man. Their fragility does not 
permit of their l)eing handled and renders their measurement a deli- 
cate operation. From the tables of Monsieur Manouvrier the height 
of the man is calculated to be 1.752 meters. Monsieur Reviere had 
reckoned it to be from 1.1)5 to 2 meters. It is clear that if one should 
consider the man of Mentone as the average type of the man of his 
time, the race to which he belonged would have been superior in 
stature to that which inhabits the same country to-day. They Avould 
have compared in size with the tallest actual races of Europe, the 



THE STATURE OF MAN AT VARIOUS EPOCHS. 529 

Scandinavians or tlic Scotch. But there arc many ivasons for sup- 
posing that the man of Mentone ranked in the series of tall-l>odicd 
persons among the men of his own race. 

In examining si^ecimens of races inferior in stature to the French 
we find the man of Bolwillier measuring l.(JO meters; the skeleton in 
the sepulchral Caverne de THomme Mort in the department of 
Lozere, l.(')2 meters; that in the cave of Gemenos, l.Cu meters; in 
the cave of the valley of the Rousson, in the department of (lard, 1.03 
meters. The man of the cave of Orrouy, in the department of Oise, 
represented a vigorous race and Avas 1.04 meters tall. 

It Avould be irksome to prolong the enumeration. All the caves 
and caverns that have delivered up their human hones to the curios- 
ity of anthropologists, the contents of all the sepulchral crypts, all 
prehistoric burial places, the dolmens of Belgium, of Quiberon, those 
in the departments of Lozere and Indre, the sepulchral vaults of a 
dolmenic character, like those of Crecy en-Vexin, the covered alleys 
like that of Mureaux, the peat districts of the department of Somme, 
and the dolmens of Algeria — the contents of all these have been 
examined and the bones found in them measured. The measure- 
ments made of more than 400 subjects (to be exact, 429) give us a 
more correct idea than we previously had of the stature of our ances- 
tors in the neolithic ])eriod, and we are able to say with certainty 
that they were perceptibly shorter than the Frenchmen of to-day, 
their average height being 1.G45 metersj that of the French, 1.G50 
meters. Therefore it is not true that we have undergone an evolu- 
tionary process of degeneration. It would be false to state that 
primitive man was our superior in stature. 

Anthropological investigations bearing upon historic times scarcely 
offer anything more of interest to us, for one can tell in advance that 
measurements of the body would not furnish different results from 
those already set forth, since the stature of men of our race, which 
did not vary in the course of thousands of centuries during a period 
of extraordinary changes, would certainly not undergo percei)til)le 
variation in the course of a few hundred years during which condi- 
tions of existence have sustained but insignificant changes in com- 
parison with those of preceding periods. Such, in fact, is the very 
conclusion to be drawn from the examinations made by Rahon and 
Manouvrier of the bones of human beings in various epochs of the 
historic period. In the first group they place the bones that may 
be called proto-historic, since they belong to a time the date of which 
has not been exactly fixed and of which no records renuiin. P'or 
example, in the museum of natural history (Paris) there is a collec- 
tion of bones gotten together by M. de JNIorgan from the dolmens of 
the Caucasus near Koban and belonging to men who lived at an 
SM 1004 34 



530 THE STATURE OF MAN AT VARIOUS EPOCHS. 

epoch not exactly determined, which corresponds to the age of iron. 
These men are of those who constructed the megalithic monuments of 
Roknia and of the Caucasus, in which their remains are found. 
Their stature is liardly larger than that of the actual inhabitants of 
the country, the men reaching a mean height of 1.673 meters and 
the women 1.504 meters. According to Schortt, the average size of 
the present natives of Caucasus is 1.650 meters. Therefore we have 
an average height almost the same as that of the French. 

In turning to France, an examination of the skeletons foinid in 
the Gallic or (lallo-Roman cemeteries of Vert-la-Gravelle, of Jon- 
cliery, and of Mont-Berny reveals a height of 1.66 meters in the men 
and 1.55 meters in the women. The Frankish populations buried in 
the sepulchers of the Department of Marne were 1.67 meters in 
height; those of the cemetery of Ramasse in the I)e])artment of Aiii, 
considered to be Burgundians by M. de Mortillet, showed a height of 
1.666 meters for the men and 1.538 for tlie women. The average 
stature of these peoples, who occupied France in the Gallo-Roman 
epoch, was a bit higher than that of the French nowadays, but not so 
much higher as one would suppose from the remarks of historians. 
With each investigation of each epoch the same conclusion is reached, 
and we repeat it as though it were the refrain of a couplet: Man's 
stature in the proto-historic period, as in the preceding period, was 
almost invariable. 

The final researches of M. Rahon bear upon the Parisian popula- 
tion from the fourth to the eleventh centuries. The cemetery of 
Saint-Marcel was used in the fifth and sixth centuries, that of Saint- 
Germain-des-Pres more recently, in all liklihood in the tenth and 
eleventh centuries. The comparison and measurement of bones from 
these two cemeteries show that the average height of men and women 
is the same for both burial places, being 1.677 meters in the case of 
the men and 1.575 meters in the case of the Avomen. The result gives 
rise to two observations. One is that in the course of six centuries 
the average height of Parisians has maintained a remarkable fixity. 
The other observation bears upon a comparison with the present 
stature of Parisians. A difference of nearly 1 centimeter (7 milli- 
meters) in favor of the mediaeval Parisians exists between the average 
height of present Parisians and those of the middle ages. 

This is at once a great deal and very little. The greater size is 
explained by the fact that the bones which were put aside, guarded 
in collections, and finally submitted to measurement Avere the 
best preserved, the most solid, and those, in consequence, which, hav- 
ing most successfully resisted destruction, proved in themselves that 
they had l)elonged to the select. One such circumstance is sufficient 
to explain a slight difference of some millimeters. 

It may be admitted as the result of pretty general experience — the 



THE STATUKE OF MAN AT VARIOUS EPOCIES. 531 

ivsuK. ill fact, which arises iVoiii all (hat has so far boon said in the 
l)rcsciit article (Jia( ^vhell a race or people is sufficiently hoiiio<,'e- 
iieous, ^vh(Ml it is not too mixed with other very dissimilar races, the 
a\era<ie hei<iht is found to remain the same, provided enough meas- 
urements have been obtained. In the course of time it becomes inva- 
riable; it provides significant indications of great value. The ame- 
lioration of conditions of existence, which would appear to increase 
stature, does so only indirectly by eliminating a greater number of 
exceptional cases, which lower the average in a factitious manner. It 
excludes from comparison persons who, through disease or sickness 
contracted during the period of growth, have not dcvelopcMl harmo- 
niously or attained their full height. 

Nevertheless, it is important to state that the results announced 
some years ago by Manouvrier and Rahon have raised some objec- 
tions. At first glance it is clear that all their measurements syste- 
iiiatically lower the numbers generally assigned to man's height. 
In nuiny cases the outcome of their exact methods contradicts not only 
general opinion, but the affirmations of historians and the results of 
approximate meav^urements. Objection was raised before the society 
of anthropology. A. Hovelacque, in pai'ticular, expressed his aston- 
ishment at the very low figure at which M. Rahon estimated the 
height of the Burgundians of Ramasse. All ancient authoi-s agree 
in declaring the Burgundians, a Teutonic people, originally from 
Xorth Germany, between the Oder and the Vistula, to have been 
extremely tall men. According to the measurements of ^I. Rahon 
they were only a little above the average (1.666 meters). If, as M. de 
Mortillet says is true, the men buried at Ramasse were Burgun- 
dians, and if the number of skeletons examined is enough to establish 
an average, one sees the consecjuences of the flagrant contradiction 
between anthropology on the one hand and historic evidences on the 
other. 

M. xManouvrier replied to the objections made by A. Hovelacque. 
He declared that this contradiction did not afl'ect him, since the deter- 
mination of the size of the body from exact measurements of the long 
bones was an operation sufficiently i)recise to carry greater weight 
than the assertions of historians and geographers. Even the most 
exact historians, like Herodotus, Ca?sar, and Strabo were capable of 
exaggerating the size of the people of Avhom they wrote. We have 
seen how the navigators and explorers of the eighteenth century, in 
speaking of the Patagonians, of individuals whom they themselves 
had seen, gave varying descriptions of them. Some set their height 
down as 6 feet, others at 7^ feet or more. Such facts as this may well 
put us on our guard against illusions of the eye, and still more against 
those of the imagination. 

Even so, the figures given in regard to the height of the Burgim- 



532 THE STATURE OF MAN AT VARIOUS EPOCHS. 

(liaiis indicate that they were a tall-bodied race. Their stature is 16 
iiiillinieters, or nearly 2 centimeters more than that of the average 
Fremhnian of to-day. And such a difference is not a negligible 
(juantity. It makes an impression upon the eye, gratifying in its 
certainty, and it corresponds to the difference of judgment expressed 
when we say of a man that he is middle-sized, or of another that he 
is tall. For example, we call the Sardinians short and the Belgians 
tall; yet the average height of the Sardinians is only 2 centimeters 
less, and of the Belgians only 2 centimeters more, than that of the 
French. 

The general conclusion of the studies sketched in brief in the pres- 
ent article can be nothing but a repetition of the conclusions reached 
at the end of each special study. The bones of primitive man, of pre- 
historic man, and, finally, of historic man, when submitted to exam- 
ination, show that man's stature has experienced no appreciable 
changes in the course of time, h'as shown no traces of an evolutionary 
degeneration. We are not a stunted posterity, and we have the right 
to spurn the insult of the poet who says that " we are dwarfs beside 
our fathers." 



OLD AGE.« 

By Elie Metciinikoff, 
i-!ub(lircct<)r of the Pasteur Jn.stHiilc. 



■ In compliance with the request of Doctor Toulouse, editor of the 
Revue Scientifique, 1 will try to give you an idea of the present 
state of our knowledge concerning old age, and I shall begin hy 
speaking of the difficulty of the task which I have to perform. The 
problem of old age is one of the most complicated and difficult found 
in the biological field. As it is far from being solved it will be 
impossible for me to present to you a completed study with results 
sufficiently precise to be practically applied. On the other hand, 
the course of procedure wdiich we jiui-sue in studying this (luestion 
has already been made ]niblic, and consequently contains nothing 
especially new. 

The reason why, in spite of these disadvantages, I have accepted 
the proposition of M. Toulouse is because I wish to inform the pub- 
lic concerning the extent of our investigations upon old age and to 
make known what an innnense field yet remains to be covered before 
we can arrive at a satisfactory^ solution of the problem. 

In considering this question of old age we are beset on every side 
with difficulties. At what period of our life does this ultimate 
stadium begin ; at what time ought a man to say that, having entered 
upon this stage of his existence he dare no longer conduct himself 
as an al)le-bodied individual? You will doubtless recall that it was 
but a few months ago that the students of the faculty of medicine 
in Paris loudly and noisily i)rotested against the decision of the 
Senate that had suspended the law prescribing a limit of age for the 
professors. '' We do not want old dotards," declared these young 
men. It is not rare to see old scientists of very great merit remain in 
their chairs up to an age when they are no longer capable of assim- 
ilating scientific progress, of judging correctly concerning new ad- 
vances. Their auditors readily see that they are no longer abreast 

a A lecture given in tlie Salle des Agriculteurs, rue d'Atlienes, July 8, 1904. 
TranslMtod. by permission, from tbe lievue Scientifique (I'aris), 5tli series, Vol. 

U. pp. C.l-TO and 97-105. 

533 



534 OLD AGE. 

with their coworkers; the okl professors alone can not perceive this. 
As regards myself, if I had remained in my native country I would 
necessarily have been fetired five j^ears ago as having accomplished 
my thirty-five years of service. 

You understand that, in view of this my task becomes still more 
delicate. Happily, in the present state of our civilization one risks 
only more or less disapproval. In the more ancient times or among 
modern, uncivilized peoples the situation Avas and is much more 
serious. 

Thus, throughout Melanesia it is the custom to bury alive old men 
who become incapable of useful labor. At Vate the old men have 
at least this consolation, that during the funeral ceremonies it is cus- 
tomary to attach to their arms a pig which may be eaten during the 
feast given in honor of the departure of the soul for the other world. 

^Vlien the inhabitants of Tierra del Fuego are threatened with 
famine they kill and eat the old women before they do the dogs. 
One who asked why they did this was answered, '' Dogs catch seals 
while old women do not." 

Civilized peoples do not imitate the Fuegians or other savages. 
They do not kill and eat their superannuated members, yet the life 
of the aged often becomes very unhappy. Incapable of any useful 
work in the family or the conunmiity, old people are considered as 
a very heavy charge, and though we have no right to make way with 
them, we desire, nevertheless, their final departure, and are impatient 
at its long delay. The Italians say that " old Avomen have seven 
lives;'' the Burgomasks think that old women have seven souls, 
besides an eighth soul, quite small, and a half-soul besides, and the 
Lithuanians complain that an old woman is so tenacious of life that 
she can not even be ground in a mill. 

These popular opinions have their echo in the frequent occurrence 
of criminal attempts on the lives of old men, even in the most civilized 
countries of Europe. In running through the chronicle of crimes 
one is astounded at the nnnil)er of assassinations of old people, espe- 
cially of old women. It is not difficult to find the motives of these 
criminal acts. A convict in Saghalien Island, condemned for the 
assassination of several old men, ingenuously remarked to the physi- 
cian of the prison : " What's the use of making a fuss about them ? 
They were already old, and would have died anyway in a iew years." 

In the celebrated novel of DostojcAvsky, Crime and Punishment, 
the author takes his readers into a tavern where the young people are 
discussing all sorts of general problems. In the midst of the con- 
versation a student declares that he " Avould kill and rob the cursed 
old Avoman Avithout the slightest remorse.'' " In fact," he continues, 
"this is the Avay the matter stands: on one side Ave have a stujnd, 
unfeeling old Avoman, of no account, wicked and sick, Avhom no one 



OLD AGE. 535 

would miss; on the contraiy, who is an injury to everyone, who does 
not herself know why she keeps on living, and who i)erha|)s will 
he good and dead to-morrow. While on the other hand there are 
fresh young lives wasting for nothing at all, without being helped by 
anyone; these can be numbered by thousands; everywhei-e it is the 
same." 

Old men not only risk being assassinated; they often end their 
lives prematurely b}^ committing suicide. Deprived of the means 
of existence, or attacked by serious maladies, they prefer death to 
their unhappy life. The frequency of suicides among old men is 
well established by statistics and supported by a quantity of precise 
data. This fact has long been known. New statistics tend to confirm 
it. Thus, in 1878, in Prussia there were 154 suicides per 100,000 indi- 
viduals among men from 20 to 50 years of age, and almost double that, 
295. among men between 50 and 80. Denmark, the classical country 
of suicide, confirms the rule. There Avere at Copenhagen, during the 
years from 1880 to 1895, for every 100,000 individuals, 39-t suicides 
among men from 30 to 50 years of age, and 686 cases of self-murder 
among the old from 50 to TO years of age. The young and strong 
adults furnished, therefore, 36| per cent of suicides, while the num- 
ber afforded by the aged amounted to G3J per cent. 

It is onh' in exceptional cases that these suicides can be attributed 
to the failure of the instinct of life. Most frequently life, although 
desired, becomes intolerable because of such circumstances as we have 
already menti(med. The desire to live, instead of diminishing tends, 
on the contrary, to increase with age. The old Fuegian women, aware 
that they are destined to be eaten, flee into the mountains whither the}^ 
are pursued hy the men and carried back home where they must sub- 
mit to death. 

It has for a long time been noticed that the longer one lives, the 
longer one desires to live. Charles Renouvier, a P^rench philosopher, 
recently deceased, gave new proof of the truth of this rule. AVhen 88 
years old and feeling himself to be dying, he jotted down his impres- 
sions during his last days. This is what he wrote foui- days before 
his death : 

'' I have no illusions regarding my condition. I know that T am 
soon to die, in a week or perhaps two, and yet I have so many things 
to say about our doctrine. At my age one has no right to hope. 
One's" days, or perhaps one's hours are numbered. I must be 
resigned. * * * j ^.^j^ ^^q^ ^[q -without regret. I regret that I 
can in no way foresee what will become of my ideas. Besides I am 
going before" I have said my last word. One always has to leave 
before terminating one's task. This is one of the saddest of the sad- 
nesses of life. *"* '" This is not all. When <me is old, very old, 
habituated to life, it is very difficult to die. I readily believe that 
young people accej^t the idea of death more easily than the old. 



536 OLD AGE. 

AVhen one is beyond 80 years he becomes cowardly and does not 
wish to die, and when one knows beyond question that death is near 
a feeling of melancholy prevades the soul. * * * j j-^ave studied 
the question in all its aspects. I know that I am going to die, but I 
do not succeed in convincing myself that I am going to die. It is 
not the philosojiher in mo that protests. The philosopher in me does 
not believe in death, it is the old man, the old man who has not the 
courage to face the inevitable. However, one must be resigned." 

It is seen then that in spite of old age, in spite of the wear of the 
spirit and the body, the instinct of life really increases with age. Old 
men desire to live, desire to continue to pla}^ their part and to go on 
with their work, as is proved by the old professors who do not want to 
abandon their chairs. Old men do not even renounce the tender 
passion. When 74 years old Goethe fell in love with Ulrica von 
Lewezow, a young girl of 17 years, and even proposed marriage. 
Failure in this project caused him great unhappiness, which he 
expressed in an elegy known as the Elegy of IVIarienbad. This is 
his plaint: 

"An invincible desire distrains me; no resource is left me but 
eternal tears. Let them burst forth and fioAV on unrestrained. They 
can never extingtush the flame that consumes me. Already furious, 
it rages in my breast where life and death contend in fearful strife. 
* * * For me the universe is lost. I am lost to myself. The 
gods, whose favorite I lately was, have tried me; they lent me 
Pandora, so rich in treasures, richer still in dangerous seductions; 
they intoxicated me with the kisses of her mouth which gave so much 
delight ; they snatch me from her arms and strike me with death." 

This unhappy love suggested to the old poet some brilliant strophes, 
but the works of the last period of Goethe's life, such as the second 
part of Faust or the end of Willielm Meister, show a decided decline 
in his genius. 

Old age is, then, the epoch of our existence which is full of the 
greatest contradictions. On the one hand there is a great desire to 
live, to be active, to love; on the other, the impossibility of realizing 
these desires. What are the characteristics of this period of human 
life which is so full of unhappiness? 

11. ■ • 

The aspect of old age is too Avell known for it to be necessary to 
describe it in detail. The skin of the face is dry, wrinkled, usually 
pale. The hair is white, the body more or less bent, the walk slow and 
difficult, the memory defective. Such are the most significant traits 
of the aged. It is often thought that baldness is characteristic of old 
age, but this opinion is erroneous, for the head begins to become bald 
at a comparatively early period. At an advanced age baldness fol- 
lows its course, but whoever has not begun to lose his hair when young 
will not become bald duriu"; old aee. 



OLD AGE. r);57 

Stature decreases with age. According to numerous ineasurenuMits 
men lose, lietween 50 and 85 years, more than H centimeters (H.KU)), 
-svomen still more (-t.S centimeters). Sometimes this loss may reach 
G or even T centimeters. 

Weight also diminishes iluring old age. According to tjuetelet, the 
maximum weight of men is attained at 40 years of age, of women at 
50. From GO years onward weight diminishes and at 80 years this 
loss amounts, on the average, to G kilograms. 

The diminution in the height and weight of the body indicates a 
general atrophy of the organism in old age. Not only do the soft 
parts, such as the muscles and the viscera, become lighter, but even the 
skeleton loses Aveight in the old because of the diminution of minei-al 
matters. This decalcihcation during old age, extending to all parts 
of the skeleton, causes a brittleness of the bones of the aged, which 
often leads to fatal results. One of the greatest representatives of 
medical science during the nineteenth century, Virchow, at the age 
of 82 years, in descending from a tramway, made a false step and 
broke the neck of his femur. In spite of all the attention that coidd 
be given him he died of the general exhaustion of forces after remain- 
ing several months in bed. Princess Mathilde fell in her chamber. 
This fall, whicli. would have had no bad result in a young person, 
caused in this woman, 8;i years old, a fracture of the neck of the fe- 
mur. As in the case of Virchow a prolonged confinement to bed led 
to general malnutrition which terminated in death. This part of the 
skeleton, the neck of the femur, becomes particularly brittle in the 
old because of osseous atrophy. 

The muscles are also much subject to atrophy during ohl age. 
They lose in volume, the muscular tissue becomes paler, the fat 
between the muscular fasciculi diminishes in quantity and sometimes 
almost completely disappears. Movements also become slower and 
muscular force diminishes. Measurements of the force of the hand 
and of the trunk, made by means of dynamometers, show a progres- 
sive diminution in the old. This enfeeblement is more pronounced in 
men than in women. 

The volume and the weight of the viscera also diminishes, although 
in a different ratio for different organs. In order to explain the gen- 
eral ati-ophy of the body in old age an attempt has been made to ascer- 
tain the intimate structure of the organs and tissues of the aged. The 
visible manifestations of our organs represent the total of the func- 
tions of the microscopic elements that enter into their constitution. 
In order to understand the formation of the calcareous deposits upon 
which Paris is situated, and by aid of which its houses are con- 
structed, it is necessary to consider the properties of the molhisks that 
have formed the shells which have accumulated and become cemented 
together to produce the stones. In the same way. in (.rder to judge 



538 OLD AGE. 

of the senile alterations of our body, it is indispensable that we should 
study the changes that occur in the cells that compose it. 

A great number of these elements are continuiUy being lost. From 
the surface of our epidermis are detached minute scales composed of 
a quantity of flat desiccated cells that have become incapable of pro- 
tecting our skin. The secretions of the mucous membranes daily 
carry away great numbers of the cells that make up those membranes. 
There is, therefore, a considerable Avear of the microscopic elements of 
our body which must be reconstituted in order to maintain its equi- 
librium. 

Under these conditions it was quite natural to ask whether the 
reparation of our cells is as well effected in the old as in those of 
adult life. This question arose all the more naturally because there 
are known examples of very low organisms that multiply by division, 
and which, after a considerable number of generations, finally fall 
into a state of exhaustion in which reproduction becomes gradually 
slower and more difficult, and may even cease altogether. This state 
of debility, which has been compared to senile atrophy, yields to cer- 
tain influences, such as the conjugation of two exhausted individuals, 
or even to imj^roved nourishment. 

But since among infei-ior organisms, which resemble so much the 
cellular elements of our body, reproduction becomes exhausted at the 
em] of a certain period, we are led to suppose that the same law may 
also apply to the senile atrophy of our own organism. Therefore, 
numerous scientists affirm that old age finally results because it is 
impossible for an organism to repair the cellular losses by the forma- 
tion of a sufficient number of new elements — that is to say, because of 
the exhaustion of the reproducti^'e faculty. 

One of the scientists who have more especially concerned them- 
selves with general questions, AVeismann, expresses himself on this 
subject in a very categorical manner. According to him, the senile 
degeneration that ends in death does not depend on the wearing away 
of the cells of our organism Ijut rather upon the fact that cellular 
proliferation, being limited, becomes insufficient to repair that loss. 
As old age appears in dill'erent species and different individuals at 
various ages, AVeisnuinn concludes that the number of generations 
that a cell is capable of producing differs in different cases. It is, how- 
ever, im])ossible for him to explain wliy. in one example, cellular mul- 
tiplication may stop at a certain figure, while in another it may go 
much further. 

This theory appears so plausible that no attempt has been made 
to support it by [)reeise facts. We even see, in the most recent 
attempt at a theory of old age, by Doctor Biihler, the thesis of the 
exhaustion of the reproductive power of the cells accepted and devel- 
oped without sufficient discussion. It can not be denied that it is 



OLD AGE. 58V> 

(lin-iiii!; (Miibi-yonic life tliat colls are produced with (he oreatesi 
activity. Later on this proliferation becomes slower hiit it neverthe- 
less continues to occur throughout the course of life. Hiihler attrib- 
utes the (liffioiltv with which wounds heal in the a^ed, precisely to 
the insufficiency of cellular production. Tie also thinks that the 
reproduction of the cells of the epidermis which are to replace the 
desiccated parts of the skin diminishes notably during old ag(>. 
.According to this author it is theoretically easy to predict tlie 
moment when culhdar nniltiplication in the epidermis must com- 
j)letely cease; as the desiccation and desquamation of the sujx'i-ficial 
parts continues without cessation it becomes evident that it nuist 
finally result in the total disappearance of the epidermis. The same 
rule is applicable, according to Bidder to the genital glands, the 
muscles, and all sorts of other organs. 

These theoretical considerations do not, however, agree with well- 
known facts which speak but little in favor of a general diminution 
of cellular proliferation in old age. The hairs aiul the nails, which 
are excrescences of the epidermis, keep cm growing throughout the 
entire life, thanks to the reproduction of the cells which constitute 
them. There is no arrest at all in the development of these parts 
even in the most advanced age. Far from that. We know that the 
hair that covers certain portions of the bodj^ increases in quantity 
and length in the old. In certain inferior races like the Mongols, 
the mustaches and the beard do not grow abundantly until advanced 
life, while young people have but snuill mustaches and very little 
or no beard. In women of the white race the same phenomenon 
occurs. The delicate and almost imperceptible down that covers the 
upper lip, the chin, and the cheeks of young women is transformed 
into veritable hair which forms the nnistaches, beard, and whiskers 
of old women. Doctor Pohl, a specialist in everything that concerns 
the hair, measured the rai)idity of growth of hair under different 
circumstances. He found that in an old man of Gl years the hairs of 
the temples grew 11 nun. in a month. But these hairs, in the 
same regions, in boys of from 11 to 15 years grew in the same time 
11.8 nnn., which represents almost the same figure. 

There is therefore in the three subjects studied by Doctor Pohl no 
considerable diminution in the cellular growth in the old, in spite 
of the great difference in age. It is true that this observer showed 
that the hair of a young man between 21 and 24 gi-ew at a rate of 15 
mm. per month, Avhile in the same individual at the age of 61 
years the rate lowered to 11 mm.; but this slowing down of the 
'growth of the hair was only apparent. In fact, the first figures 
related to hair from different regions of the hairy scalp, while the 
second related only to the hair of the temples. Now it is well estab- 
lished by Doctor Pohl himself that in the latter place the hair grows 



540 OLD AGE, 

more slowlj' than elsewhere. On the other hand, in boys from 11 to 
1 5 years old, studied by this observer, the rapidity- of development of 
the hair was always shown to be less than 15 mm. It was often even 
below the 11 mm. found in the man 61 years old. 

In spite of the abundant growth of the hair in old age, these parts 
undergo a senile degeneration; that is to say, the losa' of pigment. 
This blanching is doubtless an atrophic phenomenon which is not due 
to an arrest of cellular multiplication, but to the disappearance of 
colored granulations. 

Let us now cast a glance at some other manifestations of old age. 
The debility of muscular movements is connected with modifications 
in the structure of the nuiscular fibers Avhich also do not indicate an 
absence of reproductive power. The fascicles which form the mus- 
cles undergo a veritable atropln', for they become much thinner than 
in their normal state. Besides there is deposited in their interior a 
quantity of fatty granulations, and, what specially merits attention, 
the nuclei of the- muscular fibers show a very abundant multiplica- 
tion, forming masses arranged in long series. Douaud, who has 
published a thesis uj^on the modifications of muscles in old age, 
remarks in this . connection that the endogenous multiplication of 
muscular nuclei in old age is very active and that it takes place in 
exactly the same way as in the embrvo. In this example of senile 
atrophy we are far then from finding a cessation of reproductive 
power in the cells. 

As regards the brittleness of the bones in old people, this is also 
caused by cellular multiplication Avhich produces large cells capable 
of destroying the osseous substance and making the bones spongy. 

Detailed microscopic observation of senile organs has shown in a 
direct manner the existence of cellular multiplication. Thus Sacka- 
roif observed it in the lymphatic ganglia of old persons, and among 
others in a man 102 years old. The few data just cited suffice to 
eiuible us to reject the theory that old age is caused by the exhaustion 
of the reproductive faculty of the cells. We must seek for another 
more comformable with the well-established facts of senile degeneres- 
ence. Without entering upon new details, let us try to comprehen- 
sively survey those we have already given. AMiat common features 
connect the blanching of the hair, with the atrophy of muscular 
fibers and the brittleness of the bones of the aged? 

The loss of colored granulations in the hair is due to the setting free 
of a quantity of wandering cells which seize the pigment and trans- 
port it elsewhere, leaving the hair decolorized. In the atrophy of 
the muscles there is a nudtiplication of the nuclei and of the substance 
that surrounds them. xVs in the hair there are cells which devour 
the pigment, so in the muscles there are the multiplied elements we 
iiave just cited which devour the contractile substance. In senile 



OLD AGE. 541 

bone (ho osseous substance is destroyed by the g;\nni cells niendoncd 
above. In the cells of the senile organs just studied the general and 
essential phenomena consist, then, in the destruction of parts useful to 
the organism by wandering cells that present some (raits in conuuon 
■with each other. They are voracious cells belonging to the category 
of elements designated under the generic name of macrophages. Cer- 
tain macrophages remove the pigment of the hair, certain others 
destroy the osseous lamelhv, others still devour the contractile sub- 
stance of muscles. 

It is easy to prove that this activity or rather sup(>ractivity of the 
macrophages is observed in the most diverse organs of the aged. It 
is found in the brain, where the cells are in the act of devouring the 
most noble elements of our organism. In the kidneys and the liver of 
old persons there are found collections of macrophages that cause the 
secretory cells of those organs to disappear, thus occasioning phenom- 
ena of atrophy of very great im])()rtance. 

After having destroyed the noble elements of the aging organism, 
such as the nervous, renal, and hepatic cells, the macrophages become 
fixed in place and are transformed into connective tissue without 
ever being able to su])ply the place of the precious elements that 
have disappeared. It is in this way that there is set up in the aged 
that main factor of our premature decay, sclerosis of the organs. A 
study of the special phenomena of old age shows, then, that they 
arise from a cellular activity that brings about the destructi;'n of 
the noble elements and the superiority of the macrophages. The 
latter, which in a normal state act as protectors of the organism against 
the invasion of microbes, at last themselves invade the most useful 
parts. There is produced in our body by the advance of age some- 
thing analogous to what occurs in the old age of certain peoples when 
the army, intended to protect the state against exterior enemies, turns 
against the citizens of its own country. 

In this invasion of the senile organs by the macrophages there 
sometimes occurs a veritable struggle between these voracious cells 
and our noble elements. Weakened by diverse causes these elements 
show signs of degeneration in the form of deposits of fat or of pig- 
ment. In these conditions of inferiority the cells of the brain, of the 
kidney, or of the liver more readily become a prey to the macrophages, 
whence results the loss of intelligence and the disorders of digestion 
and of the emunctories which are so common among old people. 

But in other cases there can not be any serious question of a struggle 
between two categories of living elements. AMien the macrophages 
devour the pigment of the haii-, or, indeed, destroy the osseous sub- 
stance, there occurs rather an aggression of the macrophages upon 
inert parts that are incapalile of defending themselves. 

We have tried to show that tlie theory of the mechanism of old age 



542 OLD AGE. 

which attribute^ a preponderating- part to the- attack on the vahiable 
elements nnule by the macrophages is not a mere phuisible specuhition, 
but rests on numerous and exact facts. It Avoukl be interestinfr to 
penetrate moi-e deeply into the causes of this drama which is being 
played within our own organism and which occasions such serious 
evils. Unhappily science is not sufficiently informed to satisfy an 
investigating spirit otherwise than by the aid of hypotheses. 

III. 

It has often been said that old age is a kind of disease. In fact the 
great resemblance between these states is incontestable. Among the 
maladies to which an organism is subject there is a considerable group 
that manifest themselves in the form of atrophies. Sometimes it is 
an atrophy of muscles Avhich occasions a considerable weakness in 
the voluntary movements and in which we find proliferation of the 
nuclei, as in the muscles of old people. Atrophic maladies of the 
kidneys and of the liver are numerous, and in these we find a dis- 
appearance of the glandular tissue and its replacement by connective 
tissues the same as we find in old age. Atrophy of the osseous sub- 
stance produced by giant cells often occurs in the course of certain 
maladies. In all these examples the more ])rofoundly we study the 
lesions the more Ave become convinced of their similarity to those 
which take place during old age. 

Although the cause of many of the atrophic nuiladies is still un- 
known, thei'e are nevertheless some whose origin is sufficiently estab- 
lished. Thus, among the atrophies of the nniscles, we may cite that 
whicli is induced by the parasitism of trichina\ The penetration of 
these minute worms into the muscular fascicles produces lesions that 
occasion multiplication of muscular nuclei and a destruction of the 
contractile substance. 

The analogy with the atroj^hy of muscles is undeniable. The 
atrophic mahulies of glandular apparatuses, such as the liver and the 
kidneys, are often occasioned by poisoning by alcohol, lead, and other 
chemical su.bstances or they may be occasioned by some infectious 
microbic malady. Again, it is this latter cause which often leads 
to the destruction of the osseous substance. In certain infectious 
maladies like tuberculosis and lejorosy the bacilli penetrate into the 
bones and succeed in forming there infectious foci. These bacilli 
are, however, incapable by themselves of dissolving and destroying 
the osseous substance, but the products that esca]:)e from them into 
the bones exercise an irritating action upon the giant cells which set 
to work to eat away the osseous lamellae impregnated Avith lime. The 
tuberculous or lei)r()us agent plays, therefore, only an intermediate 
part in the atrophy of the skeleton, Avhich is inmiediately caused, as in 



OLD AGE. 543 

old iiii't', l)y tlio woi-lv of tho i2:ianl colls (losif;nato(l undor (he iiiiinc of 
osteoclasis. 

Since the iiiecliaiiisni of senile atrophy is entirely similar to that of 
atrojohies of niicrobic or toxic origin, it may be asked whether in old 
a<>e there may not be some intervention of microbes or their poisons. 
May not this abnormal excitation of the macrophages that leads 
them to destroy all sorts of noble cells of the organism and to even 
attack the pigment of the hair and the osseous substance be also due 
to the action of certain poisons elaborated Avithin the body? The 
principal source of these poisons is clearly indicated: our digestive 
tube contains an enormous quantity of microbes, and many of them 
are capable of secreting substances that are more or less toxic. Our 
intestinal flora resembles the flora or forests in which there are 
found by the side of boleti and other edible mushrooms a great num- 
ber of poisonous ones. It is true that our intestine is, up to a certain 
[)oint. protected against the invasion of the microbes contained in it 
and cAcn against their poisonous products. We may with impunity 
feed animals that are quite easily affected by certain infectious mala- 
dies upon the microbes that produce those maladies. Thus guinea 
pigs may swallow without harm great quantities of the bacilli that 
produce anthrax, but if there is the least lesion in the intestinal wall 
the mortal malady will declare itself. The presence of infectious 
udcrobes in the digestive tube may therefore have sad results. 

The intestine is likewise protected against the absorption of certain 
poisons. We may, for example, cause guinea pigs to swallow, with- 
out effect, many cubic centimeters of tetanic poison, a hundredth part 
of a drop of which injected under the skin will inevitabh' bring on a 
mortal tetanus. The intestinal wall does not, therefore, absorb the 
tetanic poison. There are, however, other poisons that do not follow 
I his rule and which are easily absorbed in the intestine. Cases of 
l>oisoning by poisonous mushroooms taken for edible ones are quite 
frequent. Neither is there an}' lack of niicrobic poisons that traverse 
the intestinal wall. We see arise from time to time veritable e]M- 
demics that are serious and even fatal as a consequence of the con- 
sumption of fish, meat, or conserves spoiled by microbes. In these 
cases there is usually an entrance into the intestines of the botulynic 
! bacillus, which secretes a very violent poison readily absorbed b}^ the 
I organism in the same way as is the poison from noxious mushrooms. 
The symptoms of Asiatic cholera are also produced by a toxine elab- 
orated in the digestive tube and absorbed by the intestinal wall. 

But in the cases which w'e have just cited there occurs an acute 
poisoning, occasioned by the toxic products of microbes and of mush- 
rooms introduced into the intestines. Now^, there is no doubt but 
that there occur besides these examples others in which the poisoning 
is less violent and less rapid and in which the microbes of the intes- 



544 OLD AGE. 

tinal contents secrete their products for a long time, thus setting up 
a chronic poisoning. It is exactly among these products that we 
should seek for the cause of the weakening of our noble elements 
and the stimulation of the destructive activity of the macrophages. 
It is true that certain jDoisons once absorbed by the organism initiate 
the production of counter poisons Thus, Ehrlich, after having 
caused his mice to sAvallow quantities of vegetable toxines, ricine and 
abrine, proved that the blood of these animals became the best anti- 
dote against these poisons. The human organism after absorl)ing 
for years the microbic products elaborated in the intestines might 
indeed thus acquire an immunity with regard to them. This sup- 
position is very probable, but it does not at all apply to a whole 
series of microbic poisons, such as the phenolic substances, the 
annuoiiiacal salts, and others, for their absorption occasions no 
production of comiter poisons. 

According to the hypothesis we are advancing, the principal 
phenomena of old age depend upon the indirect action of microbes 
that become collected in our digestive tube. And, since the wearing 
away of the substance of the bones in tuberculosis and leprosy is 
effected by osteoclasts excited by the poisons derived from the bacilli 
characteristic of those two maladies, so the same Avearing away of 
the bones may come from a stimulation of the same osteoclasts by the 
poisons of intestinal microl)es. If this is the case, our organism con- 
tains within itself the cause of its own destruction, in the same way 
that grapes carry upon their surface the germs of the ferments that 
set up alcoholic fermentation by destroying the sugar the fruits 
contain. 

This Iwpothesis rests upon a great number of well-established 
facts, but it lacks direct proof, which can only be furnished by inves- 
tigations carried on for long years. In this imperfect state it 
becomes necessary to bring together as manj^ arguments as possible 
in order to justify our supposition. 

If it is really intestinal microbes that are the cause of our senile 
atrophy, we must believe that the more the flora of the intestines is 
reduced the fewer manifestations of old age there will be. 

If we compare an old mammal with an old bird we are at once 
struck with the great difference in their external appearance. An old 
horse or an old dog can easily be recognized by its ugliness, its lazy 
movements, its worn teeth, its lusterless hair turned white on certain 
portions of the body. A dog of 12 to 15 years shows very markedly 
all these signs of senile decrepitude. Birds keep their ag"e much bet- 
ter and longer than mammals do. An aged duck, more than 20 years 
old, is alert in its movements and does not show externally any sign of 
its advanced age. Parrots and parroquets also remain for long years 
in a very youthful state. A little parroquet from 15 to 10 years old. 



OLD AGE. 545 

which I observed vei'v dosely for several years, iiuinifesled no si<riis 
whatever of ohl a<;:e. It was very lively and curious, interest in<; 
itself in all sorts of things about it, and its plumage was brilliant and 
richly coloi-ed. We ha\e j)ossessed for some years j)ast a parrcxjuet 
that, according to reliable information, must be from 70 to 75 years 
old. It is impossible to recognize its advanced age, so normal is its 
ap})earance and so easy are its movements. 

The few examples just cited confirm the general rule that i)irds 
iiave a nuich geater longevity than the large majority of nuimmals. 
Now. birds are distinguished l)v having an intestinal flora very much 
])0()rer in microbes than that of mannnals. Possessing no large intes- 
tiiie, birds lack that great reservoir for alimentary refuse which, in 
mannnals. breeds an enormous (luantity of all sorts of microbes. A 
very simple method of assuring ourselves of this consists in a micro- 
scopic examination directed toward ascertaining the comparative 
([uantity of microbes contained in different parts of the digestive tube 
of a small nutmmal, a white mouse for example. We find quite a 
large number in the stomach; very few in the upper portions of the 
small intestine. The lower part of the small intestine contains many 
microbes, but it is in the caecum and the large intestine that are found 
([uantities truly enormous. The examination of the digestive organs 
of a small bird, a canary for example, having the same weight as the 
mouse above mentioned, gives quite a difi'erent result. In canaries 
microbes are found, but in very small numbers. The stomach and the 
small intestine contain throughout their course only a few isolated 
specimens. The inferior portion of the intestinal tract contains a few 
more microbes, but their number is very far from being equal to that 
found in the mouse. The caecum, that large reservoir for intestinal 
microbes in the mouse, is represented in the canary merely by two 
rudimentary culs de sac destitute of microbes. It is not astonishing 
that, under these conditions, the toxic effects derived from intestinal 
sources slioidd be much less in the canary (and in birds in general) 
than in the mouse and most other animals. So we see that while the 
mouse is already old after a few years, and lives hardly five years at 
most, the canary is vigorous foi- a nuich longer period and may attain 
the age of 15 or even 20 years. 

When Ave see that cold-blooded vertebrates, such as turtles and 
crocodiles, attain a very advanced age without showing any extensive 
signs of senility, we are tempted to ascribe this fact to the rather 
inactive life of those animals. As they do not need to maintain a 
high bodily temperature, they take but little food and are not forced 
to expend much energy in procuring it. Birds have none of these 
advantages. They lead a very active and agitated life; in order to 
preserve their normal condition they must maintain a higher bodily 
SM 1904 35 



546 OLD AGE. 

teiiiiDcraturc than is necessaiy for mammals, yet they attain a oreater 
and more active old age than do mammals, even including man. 

Xotwithstanding the great difference betVeen the life of birds on 
the one hand and that of turtles and crocodiles on the other, these 
animals have this j^oint in connnon, that in them the large intestine 
is very slightly developed, if not absent, and their intestinal flora is 
extremely scanty. 

In spite of the imperfect state of our knowledge at the present 
time, the mass of facts we have cited may well justify us in main- 
taining the hypothesis that the intestinal microbes play the part of 
one of the preponderant causes of that chronic malady, our old age. 

Since science has already found very efficacious means both for 
protecting the organism against infectious maladies and for curing 
such maladies when they are not too far advanced, why should not 
one seek for something to render old age less painful, it also being a 
state which should be considered as having a microbic origin? 

If. as seems more and more probable, the source of our early decay 
is found in our intestinal flora, we ought to seek some means either 
for eliminating it more or less completely or for modifA'ing it pro- 
foundh\ The idea of suj^pressing the large intestine, that useless 
part of our digestive tube that we have inherited from our animal 
progenitors and that serves as the principal reservoir for noxious 
microbes, can not be considered seriously. It is evident that we can 
not count upon the extirpation or even upon the surgical exclusion 
of the large intestine. In the cases in which this operation becomes 
unavoidable we find that the organism tends to form a second large 
intestine. AVe have under observation at the present tim* a young 
woman in whom the suppression of the greater j^art of this orffan, 
made nearly a year ago, has by no means suppressed the disadvan- 
tages due to intestinal microbes. It even seems that there is pro- 
duced at the expense of the remaining portion of the large intestine 
a pocket which collects the alimentary waste and nourishes a multi- 
tude of microbes. 

In the present state of our knowledge we are inclined rather to 
consider the question of modifying our intestinal flora. There is 
now present in it many injurious microbes. It is only necessary to 
have some lesion in the intestinal wall that allows these to escape into 
the peritoneum to set up an infectious disease of the gi-avest character. 

The microbes capable of inducing putrefaction are among the most 
dangerous. Xow, these microbes have bitter enemies in other mi- 
crobes, especially in those that set up the fermentation of sugars and 
produce lactic acid. Are there no means of acclimatizing such 
microbes within our digestive tube in order to combat with their aid 
intestinal putrefaction? 

Bacteriological researches have shown that manv microbes, even 



I 



OLD AGE. 547 

wlion (iikcii in \('r_v ii\r<xv (luaiilit ics. pci-ish in tlic iiilostinos of inini 
and of animals. Thus, for oxaniplo, the vibrio of cholera, that .h-cad 
agvnt of Asiatic chohn-a, has many times been swaUowed with im- 
punity by various persons. Its destruction was so complete that it 
was impossible to find it a^-ain in the alimentary waste. Schiitz 
introduced directly into the small intestine of d()o;s a (juantitv of 
vibrios which he saw soon after luuf disai)peared. The same j)hen()m- 
ena were observed in chickens, the microbes bein^ destroy«>d in their 
diofestive tubes. 

In every attempt at a modification of the intestinal flora it is, then, 
necessary to find out whether a driven microbe is really capable of 
living in the intestines. For certain lactic microbes this fact has 
been estal)lished by experiment. In curdled milk prepared by a fer- 
ment of Bulgarian origin, placed at our disposal by Professor Massol, 
at (ieneva. there is found a large bacillus remarkal)le for its ability 
to produce a great amount of lactic acid. This bacillus, when swal- 
loAved by man, does not suffer the fate of the vibrios which we have 
mentioned. It is not destroyed in the intestines, but passes through 
ali^•e. Its presence has been demonstrated by Doctor Cohendy even 
many days after its introduction by the mouth. Here, then, is a 
microbe not normally present in our intestinal flora which may be 
implanted there artificially, either with curdled milk or under the 
form of a pure culture; endowed Avith great ])ow(>r of })roducing 
fermentation, it Avill be capable of effectively combatting intestinal 
putrefactions. 

It is interesting to note that this microl)e is found in the soui' milk 
consumed in large ({uantities by the Bulgarians in a region famous 
for the longevity of its inhabitants. 

We have, then, reason to suppose that the introduction of this Bul- 
garian clotted milk into our diet may counteract, or at least diminish, 
the injurious effect of the intestinal flora. This would be the first 
example of artificial modification of that flora. 

To sow useful microbes within our digestive tube is not sufficient. 
It is also necessary to prevent the introduction of injurious ones. 
With this end in view we should avoid, as much as possible, uncooked 
foods that serve as vehicles for all sorts of microbes. In spite 
of the w^ashing of vegetables and fruits, such as salads, radishes, 
trawberries, cherries, and others, they are yet contaminated with 
dust, soil, manure, and fecal matters. Now, these often contain in- 
jurious microbes and eggs of animal parasites. Doctor Bienstock 
found in the earth of his strawberry beds tetanic spores, which he 
found would be destroyed in his own digestive tube when a little of 
that earth was swallowed. But we must not count too much on the 
antimicrobic power of our intestines, and it is much more prudent not 
to. use these vegetables and fruits until they are cooked — that is to 



548 OLD AGE. 

snv. until after the destruction of all or a lar^e i)art of the microbes 
that they contain. This measure, together Avith the use of water that 
has been boiled, will prevent, once for all, the penetration into our 
body of wild microbes whose injurious effects can not be denied. 

Thanks to the means we have just outlined, as well as to others 
which we may add thereto later on, we may in the future transform 
our intestinal flora, now so varied and uncultivated, into a flora of 
much fewer species, exempt from injurious microbes but containing 
useful ones — in a word, into a cultivated flora. 

But independently of this prospect, it is possible to avoid the dis- 
advantages of our present intestinal flora by specific serums, prepared 
Avitli a vieAv- to neutralizing the injurious action of certain microbic 
poisons and of destroying the microbes themselves. 

As, according to our hypothesis, these microbes act upon our organ- 
ism by weakening our noble elements and stimulating their adver- 
saries, the macrophages, it will be rational to seek the means for rein- 
forcing the former. The weakening- of the latter can not be 
considered for the moment, as the macrophages are of great use to us 
in the struggle against several infectious diseases, and notably against 
the most terrible of all, tuberculosis. 

The idea of reinforcing our noble elements is based upon the study 
of certain poisons called cytotoxines. Not being able to enter into 
the details of this question we will content ourselves with remarking 
that, while strong doses of these poisons destroy our cells, minute 
doses, on the contrary, reinforce them. We should, then, attempt to 
assist our noble elements in their struggle against the macrophages 
by the aid of cytotoxines. This problem is complex and delicate, and 
requires numerous preliminary researches of long duration. These 
were begun a year ago. At this time the question is not sufficiently 
mature for any kind of discussion. 

The theory of old age and the hypotheses which are connected with 
it may be sunnnarized in a few words; the senile degeneration of our 
organism is entirely similar to the lesions inducecf by certain nuiladies 
of a microbic origin. Old age, then, is an infectious chronic disease 
which is manifested by a degeneration, or an enfeebling of the noble 
ehMuents, and by the excessive activity of the niacropliages. These 
modifications cause a disturbance of the equilibrium of the cells com- 
posing our body and set up a struggle within our organism which 
ends in a precocious aging and in premature death, contrary to 
nature. 

It is very probable that during the time we are growing old the 
intestinal microbes that have set up within our body permanent fac- 
tories for different poisons play a very important part. It is, then, 
entirely possible to struggle against premature senility by modifying 



OLD AGE. 549 

our iiitostinnl flora and by rocnfoirino- our noble elements, so sensitive 
to luicrobic poisons. 

P)iit. yon may say, all this is theoretical. It may bo scientifif, l)ut 
it has not been proven. You ma}'^ ask me to speak to you of our 
present established knowled<re concerning old age, of what modern 
medicine i)roposes to do in the Avay of remedying this unenviable con- 
dition. This question has for a long time been under consideration, 
and I will now give you the last utterance of empiric Avisdom. A 
imich-esteemed physician of London, Doctor "Weber, Avho is himself 
very old, has quite recently sunniuirized the means that he used to 
make his oAvn age supportable and to ameliorate that of his numerous 
clients. 

These are the rules that he drew up for this purpose: "All the 
organs must be preserved in a state of vigor. Morbid tendencies, 
whether hereditary or acquired during life, must be recognized and 
combated. Moderation must be used in the consumption of food and 
drink as well as in the pursuit of other corporeal pleasures. The air 
within and about the dw'elling must be pure. Corporeal exercise 
must be taken daily in all conditions of weather. In many cases it is 
also necessary to take respirator}' exercises as well as to walk and 
climb. One must retire early and rise early. Sleep should be lim- 
ited to six or seven hours. Every day a bath should be taken or the 
body be well rubbed. The water employed for this may be cold or 
warm according to individual temperament. Sometimes warm and 
cold water may be alternately employed. Regular work and intel- 
lectual occupation are indispensable. The mental attitude should be 
that of enjoyment of living, tranquillity of mind, and a hopeful con- 
ception of life. On the other hand, the passions and nervous disturb- 
ances of sorrow should be combatted. Finally, one should have a firm 
determination that will compel the preservation of health, the avoid- 
ance of alcoholic liquors and other stimulants as well as narcotics and 
analgesic substances." 

These counsels are certainly very useful to follow, but very fre- 
(juentl}^ they are insufficient for the attainment of a normal old age. 
Many very sober persons, not addicted to alcoholism nor any other 
excess, contract chronic maladies of the kidneys, of the blood vessels, 
of the digestive organs, and of the nervous system which result in 
premature and most painful old age. 

Empirical rules, even Avhen dictated by the widest experience, can 
not, then, suffice to solve the problem, and we must seek the aid of 
science in order to obtain an effective result. The scientific study of 
old age is therefore indispensable. In order to make this studv pos- 
sible, we must, first of all, lun^e material upon wliich to work': tliat is 
to say, old people, and, indeed, many old people. The opinion that 



550 OLD AGE. 

old people are merely a burden upon society, which ought to support 
them simph^ because of our moral laws, is certainly erroneous. 

Not only do the young, but many older persons share the opinion 
that old i^eople incapable of work are no longer good for anything. 
Some ten years ago a celebrated German physiologist, who had 
reached a great age, told me how he felt because of his uselessness to 
society, and added: "What can one do? I can not decide to kill 
myself." Well, now that science has taken up seriously the study of 
the problem of old age, old people have become very useful subjects, 
especially so for the young, who may be able to profit bv the results 
of these studies. If we should make way with the aged, as certain 
savage tribes still do, old age could never be modified nor ameliorated. 
Tf Ave should make Avay Avitli the sick, as was formerly done, and as is 
still done among certain tribes, we should never discover any means 
for curing diseases. If we had killed dii)litheritics under the pretext 
that the greater part of them were going to die and that they were a 
source of danger to their healthy neighbors, we should never have 
discovered the sei'um which now cures them. 

Old people, even in their condition of decrepitude, may be very 
useful, on condition that scientists can be found who will undertake 
the task of carefully studying them. There is also a certain consola- 
ti(m in the thought that when we ourselves have become incapable of 
studying old age we may serve as subjects of study to other observers. 
In any case, it is to be hoi)ed that in the future, which is, without 
doubt, somewhat distant as yet, old age may cease to be one of the 
greatest misfortunes of humanity, and that this chronic disease may 
yield to the ever-increasing progress of exact science. 



CONTRIBUTIONS OF AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY TO 
HUMAN HISTORY." 



By W. II. Holmes. 



The importance of aroheoloo-y to the student of history is now fully 
recognized. The science is establishing its claims to consideration 
more fully year by year, especially since it has become allied with 
geology, which furnishes the necessary time scale, and with paleon- 
tology, which supplies the scale of life. The branch of incpiiry 
which only a few years ago dealt with isolated fragments of knowl- 
edge, Avith disjointed portions of the framework of human his- 
tory, now essays to aid in building up the entire skeleton of that 
history, and, with the aid of the allied sciences of ethnology and psy- 
chology, in clothing it with the integuments of a living reality. 

America is taking a noteworthy part in this rehal)ilitation of the 
race and, fortunately, is most helpful just where the Old World is 
weakest. In America the past of man, for the most j^art at leai5t, 
connects directly with the present and with the living. Each stej) 
l^ackward along the course of culture development proceeds from a 
well-established and fully understood base, and there is thus no 
baffling gap between history and prehistory, as in the Old World. 

In America all the steps of culture from the highest to the lowest 
within the native range are to be observed among the living peoples, 
and Ave are thus able to aA^oid many of the snares of speculation with 
respect to what men have thought and men haA^e done under the 
greatly diA^ersified conditions of primitive existence. 

In America the conditions are simple. The antiquities of a region 
represent in a large measure the early history of the known peoples 
of that region. There haA^e not been the successiA^e occupations, the 
racial interminglings, the obscuring and obliteration of ])henomena 
that so seriously embarrass the student of the ancient nations of the 



a Paper read before the Congress of Americanists, Stuttgart, Germany. August 
21, 1904. 

551 



552 CONTRIBUTIONS OF AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY TO HUMAN HISTORY, 

Old World. The stone age and the red race stand i^ractically alone 
within the field of study. 

In America the high-Avater mark of culture barely reached the 
lower limit of civilization. In the Old World the fuller representa- 
tion of man's cai'eer is above that limit, so that America can be ex- 
pected to assist, especially in building up the substructure of human 
history. It can be expected to furnish a fuller reading of the early 
chapters of culture progress than any otlier part of the world. 

The position of aboriginal America in the field of cultui-e history 
and the area of that history which American archeology, as well as 
American ethnology, can be expected to illumine is clearl}^ indicated 
in the accompanying diagram. 

In this diagram the whole field of human history is represented 
by the five spaces which, beginning below, are: (1) The stage of pre- 
human development, through and out of wdiich the race arose; (2) 




S Knl)q|lnfen«d. 



^ ClMl«««d 



3 Gar\Mr' 



1 8 






the average stage, in which humanity took definite shape; (3) the 
barbarous stage, in which powerful nations were founded and sys- 
tems of record were developed; (4) the civilized stage, in which 
higher culture was achieved, and (5) the enlightened stage, reached 
as yet only by a limited number of nations. The idea of time is not 
involved in this diagram. The stages of progress thus become a 
scale on which the cultural achievements of any race or people in its 
struggle upward may be laid down. It enables us to shoAV just what 
relative place is taken by each race or people and just how much and 
at what points each can contribute to the history of man ; for human 
history as written is composite, made up of the separate histories 
of many peoples of all grades of development set together as a 
mosaic. 

The fan-shaped figure A in the diagram may be taken to express 
the history of the race; that is, the whole of human progress from 



OONTKTKUTIONS OF AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY TO HUMAN IflSTOin'. 558 

the slen(]or l)o<>iniiin<>s of (li(> savajic staire up to its greatest expan- 
sion at tilt' iHvsent (lay. Tlic same litiurc may stand Avitli equal pro- 
priety for the career of a single p('()|)li' oi' nation llial has i-eache<l 
the hii^hest limit of culture. In the diagram, the heiiinnings of 
cultural develo})ment are re})resented at the base of the ligiire hv a 
few slender threads of activity. In savao-ery these thi-eads nndtiply 
slowly into a considei-able number and, with ever accelei-ated i-apiditv. 
divide and subdivide in l)arbarism and civilization. e.\])andin<r with 
marvelous rapidity in the hori/on of enlightennicnl. \\'hile this 
expanding figure may be regarded as expressing the growth of human 
culture, it may also symbolize the develoijment of the i-ace in popula- 
tion and in i^hysical perfection. 

The figure indicated by B may stand for the career of peoples of the 
lowest existing order of culture, such as the Fuegians or Andama- 
nese — peoples which can contribute to general history only within a 
very limited range, since their cai-eer traverses only the lower half 
of the field of savagery. It is to be noted, however, that these lowly 
l^eoples can contribute much more fully to the history of this partic- 
\dar stage of progress than can any of the nations that have ])assed 
this stage and have risen to higher levels. 

The field covered by the 'American race is outlined in ('. Uncer- 
tain and indefinite in the beginning stages, the traces being hardly 
legible on account of the absence of written records and the insuffi- 
ciency of archeological ivsearch, it develops upward, stopi)ing just 
short of the level of civilization. Many strands of culture had ap- 
peared and had grown strong, but writing had not been fully achieved 
and other arts peculiar to civilization had not made their aj)pearaiu-e. 
It is within this field that Americanists pursue their studies and make 
their contributions to the history of the race and of developing civili- 
zation. Above this stage they find nothing and below it only meager 
and uncertain traces of the beginning stages of human culture. The 
archeoiogist finds wdthin this limited American field, however, exten- 
sive phenomena relating to the various branches of barbai'ian activity, 
especially to such as leave their traces in material form. I*rominent 
among these branches are agriculture, hunting, fishing, quarrying, and 
mining. The shaping of implements and utensils, the building arts, 
metallurgy, sculpture, ceramics, the textile arts, the graphic arts and 
writing, Avar, games, culinary arts, religious arts, personal adornment, 
the decorative arts, etc. These groups of phenomena, as exhibited in 
America, have been the subject of earnest study by a large number of 
scholars and already a great body of data relating to them has been 
collected and an extensive literature is in existence. A few of the 
more instructive of these groups may be l)riefly reviewed. 

Quarrying and mining. — Much of the history of the activities con- 
cerned in the acquisition of the raw materials of subsistence and the 



554 CONTRIBUTIONS OF AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY TO HUMAN HiSTORY. 

arts is best studied among existing peoples. This is esiDeciallly true 
of hunting and fishing, the gathering of wild fruits and grains, and 
agriculture. But archeology alone can be depended upon to tell the 
story of the industries conc(u^ned with de^-eloping the mineral 
resources. These activities escaped the observation of the conquerors 
and colonists and were discontinued so abruptly that very meager 
records of their operation have been preserved. The story of the 
struggles of primitive man in exploiting the valleys and mountains 
and in extracting the staple materials of the stone-age culture from 
their rocky beds forms one of the most interesting and important 
chapters in the history of incipient civilization. With implements 
of stone, bone, and wood the aborigines attacked the massive strata, 
breaking u}) solid l)odies of flint, quartz, obsidian, jasper, etc., 
for the manufactui-e of implements and carving out huge monoliths 
from the living rock for building and sculpture. A study of the 
American mines and quarries gives us a vivid conception of the 
strength and persistence of the forces that underlie human develop- 
ment, and of the difficulties encountered by the race in carrying culture 
upward through the stone age to the higher level of the age of metal. 
The shaping of the stone into implements and utensils supplemented 
the work of the quarryman, and the story of the development is clearly 
told in many lands. But America's contribution to the history of this 
most important brancli of activity is exceptionally full and satis- 
factory. 

Architecture. — Aboriginal architecture in America teaches the 
lessons of the initial development of this branch of culture with 
exceptional clearness, beginning at the lowest stage and carrying 
it up to about the stage of the keystone arch. The present period 
affords a wide range of phenomena representing the elementary forms 
of building, and post-Columbian clironicles giA^e us somewhat meager 
glimpses of the higher development that came under the observation 
of the Spanish conquerors, whilst archeologic remains supplement the 
lessons of the historic f)eriod. We find constructions of great variety 
and of remarkable preservation in the Mississippi valley, in the Pueblo 
country, on the Mexican plateau, in Yucatan, (xuatenuila, and Hon- 
duras, and in South America. By the aid of these we see how the 
midden and the earth mound develop into the pyramid with its mul- 
tiple stairways of cut stone; how the walls change from irregularly 
placed stone, and clay-covered wicker to massive structures of accu- 
rately hewn stone ; how the chamber spaces, ceiled at first with weak 
timbers subject to quick decay, are spanned later by the offset arch of 
stone. We see suj^ported on this native arch the concrete roof, so 
massive as to defy the earthquake and support the forest growth of 
successive centuries; we see the multiplication of stories, tier on tier; 
Ave see the spanned si)ace, limited at first to a few feet, increase indefi- 



CONTRTP.rTTONS OP AMERICAN ARP H F,( )|J »i i V I'o IITMAN ITI^^TORY, 555 

nitely to the maiiy-vaiiltiHl roof Kiii)ported by a wikloniess of liin(>stoiie 
coliiinns; we see walls decorated within and without with symbolics 
sculptures, single buildings presenting thousands of s(iuare yards of 
embellished surface, and marvel at lofty false fronts and i-oof crests 
ihat were added to alford space for the exercise of the native g.-uius 
for decoration. 

These chaj)ters in the evolution of the building arts are not taught 
with equal clearness and fullness in any other part of the world. 
Besides the direct lessons which bear u])on the history of the ai't of 
architecture, many side lights are thrown upon other branches of 
primitive culture — nuiral decoi-ation, sculpture, and furnishing, as 
well as the organization of society, religious beliefs, and systems or 
writing. 

Sculpture. — Sculpture reached its highest development in Greece, 
but the stages through which the art passed are but meagerly re- 
corded in the extant art works of Hellas. The earlier steps are repre- 
sented l)y isolated bits in man}^ places, but the primitive phases of 
the art are by no means so fully exhibited as in America. We have 
there a vast body of material covering every stage from the very 
beginning of stone-shaping up to full relief and realistic portrayal 
of the human subject. JSo people known to us has within the cul- 
ture range of the Americans shown such versatility and i)ower with 
the hannner and chisel ; none has embodied in stone a mythology so 
rich in imager3% including as it does forms of men, beasts, mon- 
sters, and cosmic phenomena in greatest variety. The arclieologist 
has here spread out before him, with the work of the living peojdes 
to guide him, as in au open book the wliole story of the I'volutiou of 
sculptural phenomena within the horizon of barbai'ism. 

MetdJIuryy. — The working of metals is amoug the most impor- 
tant activities of civilized man, and has been a chief agency in the 
develo})ment of culture, as is especially manifest in gigantic forward 
steps of recent years. Although the general course of metallurgic 
development and the mutual relation of its successive stages of prog- 
ress are Avell made out, much remains to be learned, and in this direc- 
tion America is able to make the most valuable contributions. We 
learn from histor}' something of the metal work of the Americi.n 
aborigines. Tin, lead, and iron Avere little known, and the smelting 
of ores was in its infancy, but gold, copper, and silver were extensively 
employed when the Spaniards arrived, and these metals were forged, 
fused, cast, alloyed, plated, and otherwise handled with a ■^kill that 
astonished the conquerors. Archeology verifies the statements of his 
torians and adds much to our knowledge of the manipulation of 
metals and of the forms produced in the primitive stages of culture, 
not only in regard to the Western Continent, but for the general his- 



556 CONTRIBUTIONS OF AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY TO HUMAN HISTORY. 

tory of the subject at periods where the records in the Old Worhl are 
most defective. 

Ceramics. — Of art in clay we may say much the same as of sculp- 
ture. Xo people known to us has furnished such a vast body of 
material for the study of this art from its beginnings up to the level 
of glaze and the wheel as have the pre-Columbian Americans. The 
clay took on a multitude of forms in which were embodied a wide 
range of mythologic and esthetic concepts. 

The graphic arts. — To the history of writing aboriginal America 
makes many contributions, and these, like the others referred to, 
fall within that part of the history of progress wherein Old AVorld 
evidence is least satisfactory. In the Old World we trace back the 
history of writing step by step to a point near the beginning of the 
glyphic system. In the New World we pass back from the lower mar- 
gin of the glyphic to the ver}^ beginning of the graphic, thus all but 
completing the history of the eA'olution of the recording arts. 

With a knowledge of the present and prehistoric phases of picture 
writing, it is easy to utilize and interpret the vast body of material 
in this branch furnished by archeology ; but, rich as is this material, 
insufficient light is thrown upon the transition from picture writing 
to phonic writing, the particular stage of development in which 
archeologists find one of the most fascinating fields of research. Ihe 
great body of evidence brought before the conquering Europeans 
was not appreciated by them, but rudely destroyed, and the remains, 
graphic and sculptural, are now being gathered together and studied 
in the most painstaking manner by our scholars, who hope almost 
against hope to find a key to the problems of transition. Within 
the cluster of graphic phenomena Avliich gave birth to writing, we 
have evidence bearing upon other important branches. We here 
get glimpses of the history of the calendar: we find traces of the 
pictorial art, which had not yet reached the stage of light and shade, 
perspective, and portraiture, and discover many germs of embellish- 
ment, both mythologic and esthetic. 

Although many of the obscure problems arising in this American 
field have been successfully Avorked out, many others are still await- 
ing the attention of Americanists and will no doubt yield, little by 
little, to their persistent etl'orts. 

The more important unsolved problems of aboriginal America are 
those of race origins, of culture origins, and of chronology. These 
problems do not relate so much to particular nations as to the histor}^ 
of the race as a whole; not so much to peculiar or local cultures as to 
the origin and evolution of the native activities; not so much to 
tribal or national chronolog}' as to correlations of race and culture 
history Avith the geological time scale. 

With respect to race and racial characters American archeology 



CONTRIBUTIONS OF AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY TO HUMAN IlISToKV. 5^7 

has as yet little to add to what may he leai-iicd IVoiii siudics of iIk', 
livin<>: |KH)|)les. So far as ohscrvi'd, (he variations in type of fossil 
forms do not extend decidedly beyond the ran«:!;e of variation ohs(>ived 
among the living. It has been sought to establish a paleo-American 
type in South America, but Ave are not certain that a siilliciont 
comparative study of the osseous remains of the present peoples of 
the worhl has been made to warrant a satisfactory determination. 
Conservatism is especially desirable in any attem])t to establish new 
racial types or special orders of culture. 

Regarding race origin it may be said that there is still room for 
speculation. Opinion seems, however, to be settling down to the view 
that the American race, as it stands to-day, is not autochthonous, but 
is an offshoot of Asiatic peoples, originally more or less diverse in 
character and arriving in America, mainly at least, by the Bering 
J^trait route, not abru])tly, but in the normal course of race distribu- 
tion from a natal habitat, the migration continuing for untold cen- 
turies. Americanists have here a difficult, a perplexing, but a most 
fascinating, field of research. 

To-day, one of the most absorbing questions encountered by tli(^ stu- 
dent of American archeology is that of the origin of the aboriginal 
cultures. Some regard these cultures as autochthonous; others have 
looked for their source in many different parts of the world. Al- 
though no final conclusion can yet be announced, we may assume that, 
along with the incoming peoples, all or most of whom must have 
been extremely primitive dwellers of the far north, there came the 
simplest forms of the arts of hunting, fishing, sheher-building. and 
the preparation of food; that from these elements, under the iuHuence 
of more southerly environments, there arose in time diversified cul- 
ture groups, such as are now under investigation in various parts of 
the continent. We can not but admit, hoAvever, the plausibility of 
the theory that seafaring wanderers from other lands have now and 
then reached American shores, bringing Avith them the germs of dis- 
tinct cultures, and, further, that the characteristic art phenomena 
of certain centers of progress are such as to give countenance to this 
idea. This is a most interesting and important branch of archeolog- 
ical research, and one Avith Avhich archeologists must at this stage par- 
ticularly concern themselves. 

Archeology furnishes a vast amount of interesting data regarding 
the states of culture of the American race, but Ave note that in all the 
researches so far conducted no traces of culture phenomena have been 
found Avhich extend below, on the one hand, or aboA^e, on the other, 
the range obserAed among the living or historic tribes. There is 
nothing so unique that it might not belong to known tribes or their 
immediate ancestors. It has been sought to diflferentiate a paleolithic 
culture and period in America, but without tangible result. So far 



558 CONTRIBUTIONS OF AMERICAN ARCHEOLOGY TO HUMAN HISTORY. 

as the use of the terms "■ [)aleolithic " and " neolithie " are concerned 
they may botli be omitted from the nomenclature of American arche- 
ology without loss, if not to possible advantage. The simplest forms 
of stone implements occur everywhere in association with the most 
highly developed forms, and neolithic forms are reported from for- 
mations of nearly all periods back to the earliest that have been 
observed. 

In America, especially North America, we have sought almost 
in vain to establish a definite chronology of man and culture. Evi- 
dence of antiquity is not wanting, but when we try to adjust the 
phenomena to the geological time scale Ave meet with indifferent suc- 
cess. Hundreds of ancient caves have been searched, with only nega- 
tive results ; glacial gravels have been examined with great care, but 
the returns are exceedingly meager; river terraces and kitchen-mid- 
den deposits yield nothing of particular value, and the results, when 
viewed as a Avhole, instead of enlightening the mind, fill it rather with 
confusion. It is within the bounds of possibility that this confusion 
may in a measure be due to the presence in America of an autochtho- 
nous race element. 

The contributions of American archeology in this department are 
not to be compared with those of the Old World, where definite 
chronological results are forthcoming on all hands. That America 
may yet furnish contributions of importance in this branch of in- 
quiry, however, lies well Avithin the bounds of possibility. 

It is thus seen that there are in America numerous questions await- 
ing solution, and there is vagueness in many places; but, notwith- 
standing this, the results of our archeological investigations are on 
the whole most gratifying. Elach year the areas of the uncertain and 
the unknown are being reduced, and Avhen the results achieved are 
supplemented by the rich materials derived from the study of the 
living peoples they must go far toward illuminating the pages of the 
story of humanity in general which the Old World has been gradu- 
ally but sui-ely revealing. 

Viewing the whole field of prehistorical research, Ave are struck 
by the fact that the past of man is rapidly disclosing itself to our 
vision, so that presently avc shall be able to look backAvard through the 
biological and cultural vistas of his coming and connect the present 
Avith the vanishing point of the human perspectiA^e Avith an insight 
and comprehension little dreamed of until now. 



I 



EXCAVATIONS AT OOURNIA, CRETE.* 



By. Harriet A. Boyd.& 



INTRODUCTION. 



There is a land callorl Crete in the midst of the wine-darlc sea, a 
fair huid and a rich, bejjirt with water, and therein are many men 
innninerable, and ninety cities. — Odyssey, xix, 172, Butcher and 
Lang's Translation. 

The high expectations which scholars held of the good that woidd 
come to archeology through systematic excavations in Crete have 
not been disappointed. It is still too early to estimate the full value 
of the excavations which have been made by the British at Knossos,'' 
Psychro,'* Praesos,'' Zakro/ and Palaiokastro/ by the Italians at 
Phaestos'' and Aghia Triadha/' and by the American Exploration 
Society at Gournia. Enough has been unearthed, however, in the 
last four years to revolutionize our ideas of the state of culture 
attained by the Cretans of the " golden age " during the third and 
second millenniums B. C, and to lay surer fotmdations for the study 
of European civilization than ever before existed. Further work will 
no doubt bring many fresh surprises and will throw new light on the 
origins of Mediterranean culture. 

a Report of the American Exploration Society's Excavations at Gournia, 
Crete, 1901-1903. 

f> An abstract from transactions of the department of archeology. T'^niversity 
iif Pennsylvania. Vol. I, pts. 1 and 2, 1904, i)rinted l)y permission ctf the Amer- 
ican Exploration Society. 

«■ See articles by Mr. Evans on the Palace Site in British Sclmoj Annual. 1899- 

1900, 1900-1901, 1901-2, 19(»2-8, and an article l)y Mr. Dunc.in .Mackenzie ..n 
the Pottery of Knossos in .Tournal of Hellenic Studies, 190;!. 

f^See article by Mr. Hogarth in British School Annual. 189!>-1900. 

e See article by Mr. Bosanquet in British School Annual. 1901-2. 

f See article by Mr. Hogarth on Excavations in British School Annual. ICOO- 

1901, and article by Mr. Hogarth on Zakro Vases in Journal of Hellenic Studies, 
1902. 

See article by Mr. Bosanquet in British Scliool Annual. 1901-2. 
'' See article by Mr. Halbherr and Mr. Pernier in Moimmeuti Antichi della 
Reale Accademia dei Lincei, Vols. XII, XIII. and XIV. 

559 



560 EXCAVATIONS AT GOURNIA, CRETE. 

The great palaces at Knossos and Phaestos complete each other 
architecturally, the former giving an elevation of three or even four 
stories, the latter furnishing a ground plan '' simple and grandiose," 
as it has been called by Mr. Evans. In both we see the houses of 
rich princes who loved luxury, who patronized the arts of builder, 
sculptor, and painter, and used the talents of the scribe as well. The 
smaller finds at Knossos and Aghia Triadha by their variety and 
number give us a fuller knowledge of this prehistoric civilization 
than we have of many a later stage of culture, but of this, as of most 
subjects which deserve any investigation, the more we know the 
more we Avant to know. Palaces and tombs are not sufficient ; we 
want also the homes of the people, for without an insight into the life 
of '' the many " we can not rightly judge the civilization of any 
period. By a singular chance a well-preserved town, dating from 
the earlier period of the Great Palace at Knossos (about 1800-1 aOO 
B. C.) and containing a large quantity of tools, pottery, and other 
articles of daily use, has been brought to light by the excavations of 
Americans (''people of the great democracy,''' as Cretans call us) at 
Gournia, on the north shore of the isthmus that connects the east eud 
of the island with the rest of Crete. It is not rash to suppose that 
this is one of the ninety cities mentioned by Homer in the famous 
passage of the Odyssey quoted above. 

THE ISTHMUS. 

Strabo, in Book X, Ch. IV, 3, of his Geography, describes the long, 
narrow island of Crete, with its northern coast line indented by deep 
gulfs, which at two points reduce the island to less than half its 
average width. At the Isthmus of Hierapetra, which is the eastern 
of these two points and the narrowest portion of the island, the 
northern and southern shores lie but GO stadia (12 kilometers, about 
8 miles) apart. Here nature has made the communication between 
sea and sea not only short, but easy, by leaving a narrow strip of 
lowland between the mountain ranges of Dikte in Sitia and Dikte in 
Lasithi (the legendary cradle of Zeus), a break in the long chain 
that forms the backbone of Crete. East of the isthmus an almost 
vertical rock wall of mountains hides from view the sunmiit of 
Aphendi Kavousi, which dominates Sitia (1,472 meters, or about 
'J .821) feet), Avhile across the valley to the w^est the land rises in more 
gradual ascent to mountain level, and from many foothills Aphendi 
Khristos" (2,155 meters, or about 7,070 feet), the loftiest peak of 
Lasithi, can be seen. 

At the northeast corner of the isthmus, shut in by mountains on 
the east and coast hills on the west, lies the plain of Kavousi. In 

o Aphendi Khristos is sometimes written Effendi Cliristos. 



EXCAVATIONS AT (JOURNIA, C'llKTE. !'}(\] 

seasons of abuiulant rain like IDOli it ^ives <r()0(l yields of olives, 
carobs, <rrai)os, and orain; hut in dry years like 11»01 it is parched 
and fruitless. More fertile, because better watered, is the lovely 
valley of Kalo Kliorio, which occupies the north^vest cornei- of the 
isthmus, descending to the Gulf of Mirabello. Between Kavousi and 
Kalo Khorio" the coast, though utterly barren, is wonderfully beau- 
tiful. At Pachyammos there is a good beach; elsewhere stee]) cliffs, 
alternating with coves, form a coast line as picturesc^ue as any in 
southern Europe, and within these coves rest waters as clear and 
rich in color as those of Capri. The main highway of Crete, con- 
necting Sitia, Hexakleion (Candia), Rethymo, and Canea, follows 
this coast and near Pachyammos meets the road that crosses the 
isthmus from Hierapetra. Since the earliest times this isthmus road 
must have been in constant use, for no other route across the island 
is so short, so level, so direct. Halfway betAveen the two seas stands 
Episkopi, and side roads lead east to Monasteraki, Kato Khorio, and 
Apano Khorio, at the foot of the Thriphte Range, and west tc^ 
Vasiliki and Kentri, situated on low hills. From Episkopi south 
the loAvland widens, and, being Avatered by mountain streams, is 
richly productive of lemons, oranges, figs, and mulberries, as well as 
of the connnoner fruits and grains. This cheerful fertility continues 
until the neighborhood of Hierapetra is reached, a region as barren 
as the northern shore and far less interesting. 

From time immemorial the isthnnis has been inhabited, and yet it 
is an interesting fact that with the exception of Hierapetra, where 
the modern city is built above ruins of Hellenic and Roman cities 
of the same name, the sites occupied at different periods are distinct '' 
one from another. Men of the bronze age chose Ioav hills not far 
from the sea; their successors, a ruder people of the iron age, had 
strongholds on almost inaccessible mountain heights; (Jre<'ks and 
Romans established trading stations on the shore; Venetians and 
Turks built Avatch toAvers and block houses at commanding points for 
the purpose of holding the unfortunate Cretans in subjection: mod- 
ern Cretans still prefer the security of the hills, but a seaAvard move- 
ment has already begun as a result of the peace and order that since 
the liberation of Crete in 1808 haA-e prcA^ailed throughout tlie 
island. * * * 

My first year's Avork on the isthmus of Hierapetra as Fellow of the 
American School of Classical Studies at Athens has been described 
in an article entitled " ExcaA^ations at KaA'ousi, Crete, 1900," jxiblished 
in the American Journal of Archeology, second series. Volume Y, 
1901, pages 125-157. Opportunity for a second campaign was given 

a KaXd(r) Xa)piu{y). beatitiftil A'illage, is aptly named. 
6 Azoriv, Hill may be an unimportant exception to this rnle, 
SM 1904 36 



562 EXCAVATIONS AT GOURNIA, CRETE. 

me in 1901, M^nen the American Ex])loration Society, of Philadelphia, 
offered to support further researches in Crete. Mrs. Cornelius Stev- 
enson, secretary of the society, actively forwarded the enterprise, and 
Mr. Calvin Wells, of Pittsburg, and Mr. Charles II. Cramp, of Phila- 
delphia, generously contributed the necessary funds. My colleague 
in 1901 was Miss B. E. Wheeler, of Concord and Providence, one of 
my classmates at Smith College. Miss AHieeler and I landed in Crete 
April 7. Much progress had been made at Knossos and Phaestos, 
and such success in the Mj^censean and pre-Mycensean field, or, to use 
more up-to-date nomenclature, the " Minoan "' field, increased our 
longing to find something belonging to this golden age of Cretan 
history. 

We made a round trip through Chersonnesos (a Greco-Roman 
city), Neapolis (the town from Avhich one visits a difficult iron-age 
site at Anarlachos and the Hellenic Deyros), Olunta (ancient city 
Olus, near which lie remains probal^ly prehi'^toric), Gonlos (site of 
the ancient city Lato and of an important prehistoric settlement), 
Kavousi, p]piskopi, Mesoleri (ancient Oleros), Kalamavka (reserved 
by British as a prehistoric site), Mallais (Homeric Malla), Psychro, 
and ]y.\ck to Ilerakleion. On this trip we saw nothing more promis- 
ing than our clue at St. xVnthony's and the Cych^pean wall at Avgo, 
and as Miss Wheeler was willing to try a second year's luck on the 
isthmus of Ilierapetra, we informed the (iovernment of our wish to 
renew work in that region. The St. Anthony clue was too slight to 
be mentioned save between ourselves, and when we returned to 
Kavousi presumably to find geometric or ?.t best sub-Mycena?an 
things, our quest excited pity rather than en\-y anioug the archeol- 
ogists at Herakleion. 

We went directly to Avgo to learn the nature of the megalithic 
structure near the Chapel of the Virgin. A^^go Valley is so over- 
shadoAved by the surrounding mountains that the sun does not reach 
it until late, and the mornings and eveuings are very cool. Conse- 
quently^ the peasants live here only in summer and content themselves 
with one-room stone huts without windows. 

For two weeks our party living in these huts suffered some hard- 
ships, especially during thirty-six hours of incessant rain tliat caused 
serious floods in eastern Crete, wrecked a hut near us, loosened our 
own walls, and poured into the hut we used for a kitchen. The 
results of our excavations at Avgo were uieager." On holidays 
and on days when the ground was too wet for digging we rode 
up and down Kavousi plain and the neighboring coast hill seek- 
ing for the l)ronze-age settlement, which I AAas convinced lay in 



1 See Transactions Department of Archeology, University of Pensylvania, 
1904, i)p. 18-20. 



EXCAVATIONS AT GOURNTA, CRETE. 



r)()8 



(lu'so lowlands souu'AvluTc iicai- the sea. It was (liscoiii-aiiin^ work, 
for my eyes soon came to see walls and the tops of beehive- 
tombs in every chance i^rouping of stones, and we went to many 
a " rise of iirouiid which at a distance looked a perfect Mycenean 
hill, but ])ro\cMl to be all rock. From an archaeolo<!;ical, as well 
as an a<>ricultural, point of view the curse of the Ka- 
vousi re<>"ion is the shallowness of soil: excn at (iournia 
we often have occasion to bemoan it. At last the rumor 
of our search reached the I'ar of (ireor<>:e Perakis, peasant 
anti(|uarian of Vasiliki, a village 3 miles west of Ka- 
vousi, and he sent word by the schoolmaster that he 
could guide ns to a hill three-quarters of a mile west of 
Pa chy amnios, close to the sea, where there were broken 
bits of pottery and old walls. Moreover, he sent an ex- 
cellent seal stone })icked np near the hill, and although 
seal stones are not good evidence, being easily carried 
from place to place, his story was too interesting to j)ass 
unheeded. Accordingly, on May 1!), Miss AVheeler and 
I rode to the spot, found one or two sherds with curvi- 
linear patterns, like those from St. Antonys; saw stone 
in lines, which might prove to be parts of walls (never 
more than one course visil)le). and determined to put 
our force of 80 men at work there the following day. 
Three days later we had dug 19 trial pits and had 
opened houses, were following paved roads, and were 
in ])ossession of enough vases and sherds, Avith cuttle- 
fish, plant, and spiral designs, as well as bronze tools, 
seal impressions, stone vases, etc., to make it <-ertain that 
we had a bronze-age settlement of some importance. 
Accordingly, I sent the following cablegram to the 
American Exploration Society, which was received in 
Phihulelphia four days after the first visit paid by me, 
or, as far as I can learn, by any archeologist to the site 
of Gournia : " Discovered Gournia — Mycenean site, 
street, houses, jjottery, bronzes, stone jai's." We imme- 
diately petitioned the Cretan Government for special 
permission to excavate this new site for the American 
Exploration Society of Philadelphia, and our recpiest 
was ])i-omptly grant (h1. 

Gournia is a name given by the peasants of the district to a basin 
opening north on the Gulf of Mirabello and inclosed on the other three 
sides by foothills which rise w'est of the narrow strip of isthnuis. 
For one-half its length from south to noi-th this basin is divided into 
two narrow vallevs, of which the ^^('stern forms a broad torrent l)ed, 



Fig. 1.— Bronze 
spear head. 
First "find" 
at Gournia, 
May ~'(>, liKil. 



564 EXCAVATIONS AT GOURNIA, CRETE. 

dry in summer. The southern end of the ridge was used in Greco- 
Ronian times, for here in the chapel of Aghia Pelaghia is a stone bear- 
ing the inscription '' Klythos made (it)," and close at hand graves 
have been discovered containing Roman vases. This end of the ridge 
being for the most part an irregular mass of limestone, is suitable, per- 
haps, for burial, but not for habitation. Farther north the ridge be- 
comes less rugged ; platforms of earth are upheld by rock ledges ; there 
is a slight dip, and we stand on the acropolis of the ancient city, every 
foot of its summit and slopes covered with roads and dwellings. But 
the rock reappears at the northern point of the ridge, beyond which 
the valleys meet and extend in one plain to the sea. The eastern valley 
and a small part of the plain can be cultivated, but hills and shore 
bear no crops except stones and low carob trees. The rugged charac- 
ter of the ridge and the dense growth of carobs which covered it made 
it possible for the acropolis to escape the notice of passing archeolo- 
gists, although many had traveled along the important highway from 
llerakleion to Sitia, which actually crosses the lower part of our site 
and lies within one-eighth of a mile of the acropolis itself. The higher 
hills south and southwest of Gournia are composed of pudding stone, 
which easily breaks off in shallow caves, while the loAver hills are of 
limestone, like the ridge. ' 

Our town, which until we knoAV its ancient name must be called 
by the modern designation Gournia, covered not only the middle of 
the ridge, where it rises 200 feet above sea level, one-quarter of a mile 
back from the gulf, but extended across the eastern valley up the 
liills to the east and northeast, so that the acropolis Avas the center of 
a settlement of considerable size. To-day the nearest harbor is at 
Pachyammos, a small coast-guard station three-quarters of a mile 
east of Gournia. This place seems destined to grow to an important 
port. An excellent road, built by French soldiers during the recent 
international occupation of Crete, connects it with Hierapetra, on the 
south coast, only 8 miles distant, and this land connection between 
the two seas across the narrowest portion of the island is preferred 
to rounding Sitia, where storms are frequent and severe. The line 
of the north shore has changed, and it may be that in early times the 
harbor lay in an arm of the sea directly north of Gournia. At all 
events, the sea has here encroached on buildings which are proved by 
construction and by contents to be of the same jieriod as those on the 
ridge. From this group of buildings a road probably led up to the 
low acropolis, and on reaching the middle eminence must have met 
a road which we have found continues on both the east and west sides 
of the hill, rising by steps where the slope is steep, and conducting 
the traveler at length to the small palace of the local governor. 

At the beginning of excavations only a few stones showed above the 
surface and many houses were entirely hidden, being discovered in 



Smithsonian Report, 1904.— Boyd. 



Plate I. 



_v^-j^^yv_/r^i >w-v Vw^t<.l_^l L^ AJ- EXCAVATED IN 1901 ♦igoo- 




Sketch Plan of the Central Acropolis, Gournia, Crete. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904.— Boyd. 



Plate II. 




Fig. 1.— Objects Discovered in Mycen/ean Shrine. 




Fig. 2.— Octopus Vase. 
OBJECTS EXCAVATED AT GOURNIA. 



EXCAVATIONS AT OOURNTA, fUKTE. 505 

tho courso of (lifr^iii<i: hy workiiuMi wlio, f()ll()\vin<j the roads, ciiine 
upon Ihcir thivsliolds. The upper parts of the houses had fallen h)nf; 
ngo, coverin<2: the hill with their ruins. On the top of the hill, where 
denu(hition is constant, there was but a scant coverin<; of ••arth over 
the native rock; here some of the best objects of bi-onze and terra 
cotta were found within 50 centimeters of the surface, and, indeed, at 
certain spots, which we now know to have been within (hvellinffs, the 
native rock lay bare. On the sides of the hill where eai-th accunni- 
lates we M-ere often obliged to dig 4 or 5 meters before reaching virgin 
soil, live rock, beaten floor, or stone paving, as the case might be. 

Excavations have been carried on at (Journia through two cam- 
paigns, May 20 to July 2, 1901, and March 30 to June 6, 1903, with a 
force of 100 to 110 workmen and about a dozen girls who wash pot- 
sherds. Unfortunately, Miss \Mieeler could not leave America in 
1903 to give her efficient aid toward the accomplishment of the work 
which we had started and planned together; but I was ably assisted 
in the second season by Mr. llichard B. Seager, who took special 
charge of the pottery as well as helping in the field. Miss iNIoffat, of 
Northampton, Mass., left a Paris studio to accompany the second 
year's expedition, and has made for the American Exploration Society 
a series of excellent colored drawings of some of the better Abases and 
scores of drawings to scale of the commoner pottery, saving thereby 
many shai3es which, through the inferiority of the common clay, would 
have been lost. I consider these drawings and others executed for us 
by the Danish artist, M. Bagge, among the most important contribu- 
tions which have been made to archeology by our expedition. 

The brief survey of results to be given here is strictly provisional, 
and will, I hope, be superseded by a more careful study of the work 
when the excavations at (Journia shall have been completed. 

THE TOWN AND ITS RUILDINOS. 

The sketch plan reproduced in the accompanying illustration, 
begun in 1901 by Mr. Fyfe, of Glasgow, architect for Mr. Evans at 
Knossos, and finished by me in 1903, with the help of Mr. Harold 
Hastings, gives a better idea of the town than words can. As the 
squares measure 20 meters on a side, the entire area cleared may be 
roughly computed as 2 acres, the top of the acropolis as about 1 acre, 
and the palace as one-third of an acre. Thirty-six houses and parts 
of several others are uncovered. 

The roads of Gournia have an average width of about l.(>0 meters 
and are paved with stones which seem to have been chosen from 
near the sea, and Avhich, worn first by the sea and then by the passing 
of many feet, present a fairly smooth surface. They are laid with 
care, not actually fitting, but leaving no such ruts and holes as are 



566 EXCAVATIONS AT GOURNIA, CRETE. 

seen in Cretan roads to-day. AAHiere the roads ascend we find flights 
of steps as in modern Naples; the longest flight is in the road that 
climbs the east slope. 

Gournia houses are su])orior to any homes of bronze age people 
found on the Greek mainland. Their lower courses are of rubble, 
but often considerable care is taken in the choice of stones, and 
they are roughh'^ aligned. The size of stones varies greatly — cer- 
tain walls on the east slope of the hills being sufficiently massive to 
have suggested on first discovery fortification walls, but as further 
digging disclosed massive and weak walls side by side, we came to 
the conclusion, in which all who have visited the site agree, that 
the heavier construction belongs simply to the better-built houses 
and that the place is unfortified. The width of the house walls 
varies from 50 to 90 centimeters, (iO centimeters being the average. 
That the upper walls of many of the houses are of brick is abun- 
dantly proved. These bricks average 10 by 30 by 10 centimeters, 
and seem to be fire baked. Before May, 1901, only sun-baked bricks, 
or those accidentally burned by conflagration had been found in 
bronze age settlements in the ^'Egean ; but almost simultaneously 
at Zakro at the extreme east end of the island, where Mv. Hogarth 
was conducting successful excavations, at xA.vgo, and at Gournia 
fire-balvcd bricks came to light in May, 1901, and they have since 
been found at Palaiokastro. The clay is coarse and unevenly halved, 
but the bricks retain their shape well. Bricks were used not only 
in upper walls, but also in partitions — always on a stone base. In 
a house on the east slope we found partition walls made of mud, 
which, after drying in the sun, was overlaid with plaster, a careless 
construction not uncommon in modern Greek villages. The marvel 
is that such flimsy work should have remained sufficiently intact for 
thirty-five hundred years to be iinmediately recognized and preserved 
by the worlcmen who dug it out. 

l*laster is employed extensively on the door jambs and on the 
walls, both outer and inner, OAan-laying stone and brick. It is of 
several varieties, a coarse white kind and a gray pebbly sort being 
common.cst. In some instances a coarse plaster covers the wall and 
a second finer layer covers this, the color of the finer layer being 
usually a very light bluish gray, although we have a few precious 
bits of brighter stucco of a shade somewhat deeper than the Pom- 
peian red. In one of the western storerooms of the palace we found 
two small curiously molded pieces of stucco, one shaped as a thun- 
derbolt and the other as a swallow; these have one flat surface, 
as if they might hav(> formed ornaments in relief on the wall. 

Doorways are carefully made with stone sills and bases for the 
jambs, which were in rare instances of stone covered with plaster, 
sometimes of wood, often of brick clay plastered over. A shapeless 



EXCAVATIONS AT OOURNTA, ORETR. 567 

mass of bronze, evidently reduced by heal, lay in a dooiway of llie 
palace, and may have formed a part of the Iriinniiiius of the door. 
As a rule the house walls are not sufficiently hiirh for windows (o have 
been preserved, but three openini>:s in walls on the east slope were 
certainly intended to admit li<>ht and air. Floors were made of 
beaten earth, " terrazza ' (a cement of pebbles covered with a layer 
of plaster), stone slabs, or i)avino- stones like those in the roads. As 
for roofs, the evidence seems all in favor of the flat terrace forms 
conmion to-day in the East, Pieces of plaster still bearin*; impres- 
sions of reeds show Avhat the ceiling must have been. In a o;r()nnd- 
iloor room of the palace a large tree trunk was found fallen and 
burned, completely charred through, but retaining its original shape; 
this supported either the flooring of the ui)per story or the roof. The 
central hall of the palace was choked with such timbers. 

In plan the houses are simple, conforming to the lay of the land 
rather than to a fixed form. When similarity of plan can be detected, 
as in certain houses on the east slope, the arrangement is modern 
rather than classical and is in agreement with the mosaic pictures of 
Minoan houses found in the palace of Knossos in IDOi. As in the 
mosaic, so at Gournia we see the houses built flush with the streets 
and usually provided with a good stone threshold; crossing this we 
enter a ])aved antechamber with doors leading to the gi'ound-floor 
rooms and steps mounting to the second story: cellar ste[)s may de- 
scend directly from the antechamber or from an inner room. Certain 
cellar rooms are finished in plaster and provided with doors; others 
were entered, if at all, by ladders from above and can have served 
only for storerooms; still others were mere substructures. Several 
houses on the east slo])e have open courts which seem to have been 
generally omitted in the private dwellings on the top of the hill for 
lack of space. We knoAv that there were second stories, because five 
stone staircases are well preserved and the former existence of wooden 
steps at many other ]X)ints is clearly indicated. Moi'eover, nuiny ob- 
jects, and these usually the best, were found in the earth at varying 
heights above the floor level, and except where theiv was proof that 
these had stood on a wooden shelf, since rotted away or burned, they 
must have fallen from an upper story. 

No satisfactory exjilanation has yet been given for a stone object 
which is very often found just within the street door. It looks like a 
large mortar, and either stands ui)on the paved floor or is sunk 
beneath it to the rim. It would make an awkward basin, for there 
is no way of removing water except by dipping; on the other hand, 
its position, invariably close to the outer door, makes us think that it 
must have served some other purpose than the one of pounding and 
grinding Avhicli its form suggests, or at least that some special sig- 
nificance Avas attached to its use. No i)estle has yet been found with 



568 



EXCAVATIONS AT GOURNlA. CRETE. 



it, although smaller pestles and mortars are among our commonest 
finds. 

Special mention should be made of the palace. On • the west 
side are four storei'ooms communicating Avith a flight of steps, and 
three long, narrow magazines opening on a common corridor that 
correspond, though on a much smaller scale, to those at Knossos and 
Phaestos. The rooms south of these magazines were reached by a 
staircase, of which the steps are destroyed, but a transverse support- 
ing wall still remains. West of the storerooms the road Avidens into 
a small plateia, of which we have not yet determined the western 
boundary. South of this is a space, having a cement pavement, Avhich 
seems to be part of the i^alace, possibly a loggia, in which case the 
west road continuing south must have formed a covered way within 
the j)alace. From the southern end of this covered Avay a paved 
passage leads east, while the road continues soutliAvest. The eastern 

passage ends in three steps as- 
cending east and a return series 
of tAvo steps Avhich communi- 
cated Avith the building south of 
the passageway. Beyond the 
three steps is a large open court, 
Avhich seems to ansAver to the 
Avest court of Knossos, and may 
have served as a market place 
for the town. This court was 
paved Avith cement; its eastern 
and southern limits are not yet 
reached. As Ave turn north 
from the steps we see on the left 
running north for a distance of 
5.60 meters a stylobate, on Avhich stood tAvo square pillars, measuring 
85 centimeters on a side at the base, Avith shafts about 20 centimeters 
less in dimensions. Of the southern pillar nothing remains, but its 
position can be distinctly traced on the stylobate; of the northern 
pillar Ave still have the base and loAver part of the shaft. The profile 
of the base is carefully cut. 

Beginning March 30, 1903, at this portico, from which we had 
remoA-ed our last loads of earth in 1901, Ave dug northward into the 
center and, as it proved, the most interesting part of the palace. In 
the northwest corner of the court we came upon two Ioav flights of 
steps at right angles to each other, which reproduce the arrangement 
at Knossos and Phaestos. Within their angle a pair of sacred horns, 
fashioned in coarse terra cotta, measuring 0.38 centimeter across and 
0.38 centimeter in height, lay as if fallen from above. The flight of 




FiQ. 2. — Sacred hoz'us (coarse terra cotta). 



EXCAVATIONS AT fJOTTRNTA, CRETE. 5()9 

steps letuliiiji: Avost g-ivos access to the intei'ior of the palace. With- 
out trying foi- the present to exphiin a hii<ie siii<ile l)h)ck of stone near 
the top of the steps that may have been the th)()r of a bath, we may 
turn northward, cross a threshohl 1 meter wide and '1 meters hnig, 
and foUowing a corridor that runs lirst west and then north, enter 
an inner court paved Avith cement ("" terrazza '') and open to the sky. 
The west side of this inner coui't was formed by a line of storerooms 
mentioned above, which lie on a somewhat lower level; north of the 
court are more storerooms, a corridor leading to the west entrance of 
the palace, a well-[)reserved bath, and a small staircase to the second 
story. On a step of this staircase stood a three-legged stone basin, 
too heavy to be saved by the owners or easil}'^ looted by an enemy. 

The east side of the inner court oj)ens through a portico composed 
of two square pillars alternating with two round on a stpiare hall, 
which was certainly covered, as it was choked with fallen timbers, 
masses of plaster, and stone slabs that in Minoan houses, as in many 
Italian houses to-day, nuule the Hooi'ing of the second story. In the 
southeast corner of the hall is a rectangular recess with a stone bench 
around three sides and a round base for a colunui that must have sup- 
ported an architrave across the open side. Here we nui}- sup})ose the 
prince sat to receive his friends and to dispense justice. It is a semi- 
public part of the palace, corresponding to the thr-one room at Knos- 
sos. No doubt the private rooms were on the second story. To them 
a narroW' flight of stairs led from the northeast coi'uer of the ludl. 
The walls of this hall are carefully built of well-s(iuared blocks of 
soft limestone, like those used in the more important parts of the 
outer walls of the building. At first we were? astonished to find im- 
mediately adjoining this important hall on the north one s(|uare and 
two oblong storerooms, the square room containing \'l huge pithoi, 
one of which is still perfect; but reflection shows that this arrange- 
ment is a good one, for if the hall was semipublic and was an eating 
hall for retainers it would be convenient to have " cellar " and pantry 
at hand. 

A i^art of the hill w^as cut away to give a level floor for the hall 
and the adjoining rooms, and on the east the ground lies (> or 8 feet 
higher. Here on the top of the hill no soil could accumulate to pro- 
tect the ancient structure, and a careful scouring down to live rock 
simply proved that there had. been nothing lower than the second- 
floor level between the hall and some narrow rooms of " magazine 
type " on the extreme eastern limit of the palace, where the land 
again descends, and that of the second story not even a vestige re- 
nniins. To the south of the palace, as here described, lies a building 
of many rooms, wdiich may form a southern wing (possibly the 
women's quarters) or may be the beginning of a block of houses. It 



5Y0 EXCAVATIONS AT GOURNTA, CRETE. 

contains a bath witli oonionv floor and stucooiMl wall, on which traces 
of ro<l and yellow color are still visible, a small scjuare court, several 
storerooms, and a deep cistern with water channel. 

In all the more imjjortant parts of the i)alace squared blocks of 
soft limestone take the place of rnbble; usual dimensions about l.-tO 
meters long, 90 centimeters wide, and GO centimeters high. One 
block attains the length of 2.10 meters. These blocks are carefully 
trimmed on all sides, and are laid in a thin bed of clay, each course 
receding about 10 centimeters from the one below it. The outer face 
was covered with stucco, and we have some traces of its use on the 
inner walls also. On a block near the southwest corner the double 
ax of Zeus is carved, as at Knossos and Phaestos. We note also many 
reentrant angles, a feature of Cretan architecture of this period. 

Of the shrine which lies in the center of the town, approached by 
a well-worn road of its own, I shall say very little, as it opens up too 
large a subject for discussion here. Not imposing as a piece of archi- 
tecture, it is yet of unique importance as being the first " Mycena?an " 
or " Minoan " shrine discovered intact. The worshiper ascended 
three steps and, through a doorway 1.50 meters Avide, entered an in- 
closure about 3 meters square, surrounded by walls half a meter 
thick and 50 to 60 centimeters high. The floor is of beaten earth. 
Lying near the top of the hill, our shrine has suffered much from the 
forces of nature. A wild carob tree growing within its bounds had 
partly destroyed and partly saved its contents, of which the more 
noteworthy are a low earthen table, covered with a thin coating of 
plaster, which stands on three legs and possibly served as an altar; 
four cultus " vases bearing symbols of Minoan w^orship, the disk, 
consecrated horns and serpent, a terra-cotta female idol entwnned 
with a snake, two heads of the same type as the idol, several small 
clay doves and serpents' heads, all of coarse terra cotta, and a frag- 
ment of a pithos, on which a double-ax and disk are modeled in re- 
lief. These were huddled together in the northeast corner; the rest 
of the shrine was entirely empty of finds, and nothing stood in the 
recess^ at the southwest corner, although this seems to correspond to 
the shelf in the shrine more recently discovered at Knossos, on which 
were found, many offerings. 

a I liave called them " cultus " vases, and such I do believe them to be in 
spite of Wide's article on Mykoniscbe Gotterbilder. in Idolo Athenischc Mittheil- 
ungen, XXVI. 1901, ])i). 247-2r)7, in which he calls similar objects from Prinia 
" idols." These resemble ring stands found in Egypt, and with their slightly 
flaring rims would conveniently hold bowls. Oh.iects with the same rings, flar- 
ing basi's, and flaring rims have been found at Orchomenos and elsewhere in 
Greece and the islands, but none of this height. The Gournia vases are fur- 
nished with two opposite sets of upright loops, with an u]tright handle between 
them. 



Smitlisonian Report, 1 904.— Boyd 



Plate III. 




BULL'S Head. 

Ler.sth of hearl 12 cm., width acro.;s forehead ahout 0.07 cm. Hollow with a flat back, a.s if to 
fit against a wall, 14 cm. long by 9.i cm. wide. The gray clay is medinm line, and even seem.s 
to have been covered in greater part witli a shining white slip, as if to imitate .silver, touched 
up with black and in certain plaies witli a red i)iginent. Well modeled. A hole, depth 0.8 
cm., in the end of tlie nose; second liole, (le[)th 2 cm., in top of head. Horns and eyes broken. 



EXCAVATIONS AT (iOURNIA. CHF.TK. 571 

Of tombs WO luivo as yot found no ti-acc at (Joiii'iiia. a]tli()ii<ili vi<r- 
orous soarcli has Ix-eii niado for tlicm, but wo liavo si<riis of iiilraiuiii-al 
burial on (ho north si)ur of tho acropolis, wlioi-o witliin an indosiirc 
rosonibling a houso wo unoovorod tho bottoms of throo oasolhis (avor- 
a<!:o h'n;Lith 1 motor). to<j:othor with many human bonos, throo bronzo 
knives, and a thin tij) i)ioce of beaten gold, without pattoiMi, as lai'<;o 
as tho end of a thumb. P'ragments of two otiioi- casollas woi-o un- 
oarthod about 7 motors north of this point. r)Ut on this north spur 
of tho acropolis the soil is novor more than 30 centimeters deep, and 
this readily explains why of tho casollas only the bottoms and T) or G 
centimotors of tho sides were preserved, why the bones wore scat- 
loivd. and Avhy no more objects were found with them. Within the 
north room of houso C) on tho west road, 1 motor below the surface, 
we came upon a better preserved casella deccyatod with a link pat- 
tern of debased type, and close to it a grotesque mourning female 
figure in coarse terra cotta similar to hgures found in Cypriot tombs. 
I believe that these objects were deposited in this house at a })oriod 
distinctly later than that of the settlement itself, and it may be that 
tlie casollas on the north sj)ur are also late, although too little remains 
to estal)lish a proof. 

February, 1901. 



ARCIIK()LO(}JCAL KESEARCIIES ON THE FRONTIER OF 
ARGENTINA AND BOLIVIA IN lJ)01-02.« 



By Eric von Rosen, 
Stockholm. 



In tlio spriii<T|; of 11)01 an expedition left Sweden, under the leader- 
ship of Baron Erland Nordenskic'Ud, for the Argentine Republic and 
Bolivia. Of that expedition I became a member, for the purpose of 
carrying on archeological and ethnographical research. Time does 
not admit of my sketching here the course of the expedition, and that 
is the less necessary as Baron Nordenskiold has already published 
several essays in which an account of its doings has appeared; I at 
once, therefore, pass on to describe the archeological results I was 
able to obtain during the progress of the expedition. 

About 8,500 meters above the sea, at the foot of the cliain of moun- 
tains that border on the west the lofty plain of Puna de Jujuy in 
northern Argentina, a farm, Casabindo, is situated. The district 
round, now desolate and almost desertlike, was ne\'ertheless at one 
time inhabited by numbers of people. Evidence of that fact exists in 
the very numerous remnants of huts, corrals, and irrigation terraces. 
These monuments of a by-gone civilization have long l)een known to 
exist, and Doctor Uhle visited the place on one of his journeys, yet, 
save for Doctor Lehmann-Nitsche's Catalogue of the Buna Collection 
in the La Plata Museum and some statements in Ambrosetti's essay, 
entitled "Antiguedades Calchaquies," nothing has up to the present 
been i)ublished relatiA^e to Casabindo. 

About 1 kilometer north of the farm there are some heights, 
formed of a tolerably loose species of rock resembling sandstone. 
Owing to weathering and the etfect of the wind, grottolike excava- 
tions of varying dimensions have been formed in the rock in the proc- 
ess of time; many of these grottoes have in earlier times been used as 
burial places. On plate i, figures 1, 2, we see photographs of one of 

«A preliminary report dedicated to the Fourteenth International Congress 
of Americanists, at Stuttgart, 1904. Reprinted from author's copy. 

573 



574 ARCHEOLOGICAL RESEARCHES IN ARGENTINA AND BOLIVIA. 

tliose <*'rottoes, slio^vini>\ iu the corner, a skeleton which I unearthed. 
The grottoes average about 1.5 meters in depth and about 2 meters 
in height at the entrance. Tlie i-ock forming the foundation of the 
grotto slopes usually downward from the entrance, but rises again 
farther in, so that a longitudinal se(;tion shows that the floor, the 
inner wall, and the roof of the grotto together form a curve which 
nearl}^ approximates to two-thirds of the circumference of a circle. 
Thus the floor of the grotto is markedly concave in form; it is cov- 
ered with a layer of sand, usually of a depth of as much as one meter 
at the deepest part. En that layer the corpse is found deposited in a 
sitting posture, or else, where there was not a sufficient dei3th of sand, 
in a lying one, but always with the legs bent up and pressed upon the 
chest, so that the chin and knees almost touch. I have not observed 
that the corpse was systematically placed facing any particular point 
of the compass. In front of the entrance to the grotto there is often 
to be seen a semicircular arrangement of stones, piled in several 
courses, one on top of another; that was presumably a precautionary 
measure against the removal of the sand by the blowing of the Avind. 
As a rule, I found only one skeleton in each grotto, but in some there 
were up to the number of three. In some graves the dead had house- 
hold utensils, etc., lying beside them, though in only one of the graves 
which I examined was there any trace of clothes. As the layer of 
sand in the graves has never been exposed to the influence of any 
damp to speak of, a number of the corpses, instead of rotting away, 
have merel}^ dried up; they resemble mummies in api^earance. It 
seems to me scarcely probable that any species of embalming was 
resorted to; it must, indeed, have been superfluous, inasmuch as the 
articles of wood and other perishable or destructible substances 
w'hich I found in the grottoes are in remarkably good preservation. 
I succeeded in collecting a fairly large number of specimens of 
skeletons, both of adults and children. Professor Retzius is at pres- 
ent studying them, and lie informs me that all the heads from here 
bear evidence of having been artificially deformed to a greater or 
less extent. The hairs upon them are coal-black, coarse, but not 
very stitl'. Kound one of the heads there Avas a curious bandage 
of llama wool. The body to which this skull belongs was wrapped 
round in two woven mantles, one of a very delicate texture, worked 
in a strange pattern and of an exceedingly i)retty color; the other 
coarser and very thick. The finer one is ])robably of vicuna wool, 
and was woven in a peculiar numner, whereby the threads were 
made to follow the pattern. Consequently the threads in some 
places are verv closely })acked together, in others wader apart. The 
coarser mantle is of llama wool. Close to the skin of the dead body 
I found renmants of a garment of some thin material, originally 
white in color. 



Smithsonian Report, I'HH — >, R- 



W^ 



^anfc 



Plate I. 




FiQ. 1.— Grave Grotto. In Lower Left Corner of the Gruttu is an Unearthed 
Skeleton in Squatting Position. 




Fig. 2.— Nearer View of Same Grotto Showing Skeleton, 




o 




I 



Smithsonian Report, 1904, — von Ro«pn. 



Plate III. 




Fig. 1.~Loom of Cactus Wood, Puna de Jujuy. 




Fig. 2— Stune. Hui I.\h«l,:lu l, Pu\r^ Inma,\; 











ki5 





ARt'llEOLOGICAL RKSKARCIIES TN AR(JENT[NA A.\l> I'.OI.INI \. ^Tf) 

As already iiK'nlioiuMl, in the majority of cases articles had Ix-eii 
deposited iu the fj^raves with the (h'ad bodies; as a rule these arti- 
cles consisted of a 1)()av1, some corncohs, and a cup. which at the 
time of tlie burial was probably filled with water, as is the custom to 
this day among the Chorotes Indians. Some graves, however, were 
more ])lentifully supplied with similar articles, as small cu[)s of 
burnt clay, clay bottles with painted ornamentation, a small red 
clay bottle of a beautiful sliape and of a fine material, a clay bowl 
with a handle in the shape of an animal's head. At the l)ott«)m 
of this bowl there is a black cross, painted, and with arms of equal 
size. Some corncobs were found in the l)owl. In one grave two cups 
of exactly the same size and ai)|)earance were found, cut out of one 
j)iece of a hard kind of wood (pi. ix, fig. 3) ; the exterior is richly 
adorned with engraved oi'iiaments. The discovery so far from the 
sea of some shells of marine nuissels, probably u^ed as spoons, is 
remarkable. In these gravi's were further found a bone case 
containing cactus j)rickles, used doubtless in tattooing, as is still 
the case among the Chorotes; an instrument flattened like a s])oon 
at one end; some of the so-called llama bits. It is ]X)ssible that the 
objects in question were actually used for that purpose, but if so 
1 presume that they were not placed in the animaFs mouth, but 
across its nose, for I have not been able to discover any trace of 
wear by the teeth on any of the numerous specimens T have come 
across. On one of the ""bits" of the same description there is a 
rein of llama wool fastened to it. 

Outside most of the grave grottoes I found that the sand for a 
somewhat limited area around was mingled with splinters of pottery, 
pieces of chipped stone, bones of animals, charcoal, etc. These 
collections of remnants of a bygone civilization each extended over 
an area of at the utmost 15 square meters; in places they were as 
nuich as one-half meter in depth. That dwelling places and graves 
were found so close together goes to show that the custom preva- 
lent, for instance, among the Chiriguano Indians of burying the 
dead near their residences Avas general in this portion of the Puna, 
too. In the collections spoken of above I came upon some clay 
vessels of rather larger size than the generality. Besides splinters 
of pottery, chipped stone, charcoal, corncobs, and sundry bones of 
llan.ias, etc., I also found there arrow and lance heads, axes, spindle 
whorls, stone beads, etc. The axes or parts of axes discovered there 
were made of schist and were all of approximately the same type. 
One of the axes is about 15 millimeters thick and the edge has been 
sharpened on one side. Some of the other axes found there, how- 
ever, had their edges sharpened on both sides. Ambrosetti and 
Lehmann-Nitsche describe implements of an exactly similar char- 
acter, but thev do not seem to have found anv trace of the axes 



576 AKCHEOLOGICAL RESEARCHES IN ARGENTINA AND BOLIVIA. 

having been provided with handles. I made the discovery, how- 
ever, very soon, that the implement had had a handle, for on several 
of the specimens I obtained there were plain marks of friction against 
some hard object on one of the surfaces of the projecting part, 
which itself resembled a handle. On some of the axes is j^lairdy 
to be seen that the Avooden handle has produced a shallow, level 
furrow^ in the stone (pi. viii, fig. 4). Subsecpiently I found in 
another grave a handle bent at an acute angle and shaped at one 
end for fastening the ax more securely to it. I placed one of the 
axes before described in contiguity to this handle, and thereby con- 
vinced myself that the worn surface on the ax very closely corre- 
sponded to the level surface of the handle; the two par-ts were prob- 
ably united together by means of something wound around them 
or b}^ being incased in leather. It is possible that resin or some 
other adhesive substance may have been employed to prevent the 
ax gaping; the fact of its having been insecurely attached is, how- 
ever, amply proved by the considerable amount of wear shown on 
the handle. 

The fragile material of which the ax is made renders it an impos- 
sibility that it can have been used for dealing with any hard sub- 
stance; on the other hand, this ax would be an admirable implement 
for peeling oif the soft exterior of the pillar cactuses, Avhen the hard 
internal stem of the plant is to be got at. With the trifling exception 
of small bushes and the Polylepis racemosa^ which resembles a shrub, 
and, moreover, occurs veiy sparsely, there do not exist any trees but 
the cactuses in the whole of the Puna that yield wood for manufac- 
turing purposes or for fuel. These cactuses (jdI. ii, fig. 1) attain a 
respectable growth. The adaptability of the wood of the cactus for 
manufactures is shown both by the loom (pi. iii, fig. 1) made of cac- 
tus wood and by the door (pi. ii, fig. 2) of the same material. 

About 8 kilometers northwest of Casabindo, in a narrow valley, 
there are numbers of remains of round stone huts. They are, indeed, 
so numerous that we may well assume that a population of several 
thousands dwelt here. Stone huts of a similar appearance are still 
used in the Puna, though only sparsely. The illustration (pi. in, 
fig. 2) shows a modern hut of the kind. The roof timbers are of 
cactus w^ood, covere(,l with sticks and straw. The valley leading from 
Casabindo to the ruined city is hemmed in by fairly steep slopes, 
covered almost throughout with stone terraces of from 1 to 2 meters 
in height antl of similar a])[)earance to the irrigation terraces of the 
Inca period, which are so common in Peru. Plate iv, figure 1, repre- 
sents a terraced mountain slope at Casabindo. Plate iv, figure 2, shows 
a small gi-otto, the entrance to which has been blocked up with a 
stone wall. Grottoes of that kind are of very general occurrence in 
the vicinity of the irrigation terraces. At the foot of the wall there 



ARCHEOLOGICAL RESEARCHES IN \HC:ENTINA AND BOLIVIA. 577 

\vas a roctancfular ()])(Miin<i: ]i\v(ro ciiouiih for a man just to manap^e to 
creep throiioh. A couple of walled-np orottoes of a siiiiilar cdiaracter 
to this one were invest i<ra ted by nie, but they proved to be empty, and 
their object is a puzzle to me. Ambrosetti has described a fjrotto of 
the kind, but he, too, is unable to arrive at an}'- satisfactory explana- 
tion of the use to which they were put, although he is inclined to con- 
sider them emptied graves. 

Near the ruined city just mentioned I came upon an urn of burnt 
clay deposited in the ground and containing the dried-np corpse of a 
child with a deformed head. The mouth of the urn was covered with 
a clay plate turned upside down. The child had its sandals buried 
with it and a rattle, consisting of the fruit of the Jvc/lans mistralis 
that grows in Chaco. A clay dish, containing some corncobs and a 
couple of bowls of pumpkin rind, had also been deposited in the urn. 
Beneath a projecting slab of rock, quite close to the above-described 
grave, I came upon another, containing several skeletons and numer- 
ous objects, as a clay vessel, a bowl of pumpkin rind, a Avooden spoon, 
small spindle whorls of wood, an implement in the shape of a knife of 
some hard wood, a bar of wood with remnants of a fiber tie attached. 
The Chorotes Indians have an implement wdiich they use for carrying 
fish about in and which in appearance exactly resembles this; further, 
a club or mallet, a diminutive club, a bow, a miniature bow, an ax 
handle, a miniature ax handle, a square slab of palm wood, and a bag 
of leather. This l)ag contained bars of wood that show evident 
traces of having been employed in liindling a fire. A more detailed 
account of the procedure, as observed among the present-day Chaco 
Indians, I propose to give in my lecture upon the Chorotes. In the 
same grave I further found a w^ell-preserved sandal of almost the 
same type as those used now in the Puna; small leather bags, contain- 
ing red, yellow, and green pigments; implements of copper; a thin 
sheet of copper; an interesting implement of copper (pi. viii. fig. 3), 
and a whetstone. 

Adjacent to those objects, which are of pure Indian origin, I also 
found a wind instrument made of cow horn, and the renuiins of a 
Somali knife of iron with a wooden handle. These two articles prove 
that the ruined city at Casabindo was still inhabited at the period of 
the Conquista. 

At Cangrejillos, in the most northerly part of the Puna, I came 
upon a dwelling place of considerable size with numerous remains 
of stone huts. Here was found, among other things, a stone ax of 
exactly the same type as the Casabindo axes. At Chafii, too, in South 
Puna, I came upon remains of large-sized villages, one of them at a 
height of nearly 5,000 meters above the sea. At the topmost summit 
of the same mountain, at 6,100 meters elevation above the sea, my com- 
SM 1904 37 



578 ARCHEOLOGICAL RESEARCHES IN ARGENTINA AND BOLIVIA. 



]:)anions, Herr Von Hofsten and Doctor Fries, found remains of two 
carefully constructed i — i-shaped cromlechs, partially covered over 
with snow. Within the compass of one of the cromlechs there were 
found a cylindrical bead of blue mineral as hard as glass, and some 
splinters of pottery of the same appearance as those common in the 
dwelling places in the Puna. Pieces of cactus wood were also found. 
It is uncertain whether there was a signaling station here or a place 
of sacrifice. Owing to the rarefaction of the air, my two peons were 
unable to proceed to the top. I pushed on alone to the top of one 
of the peaks, where I took photographs at a height above the sea of 
about 6,000 meters. Plate v, figures 1 and 2, represent species of 
sacrificial erections in use among the Puna Indians at the present 
day ; the first is dedicated to the goddess Pachamama, and is formed 
of stone which are thrown up by every passer-by ; the other is in the 
form of a kind of miniature house, in which chcAved cocoa is 
offered up. 

In Quebracla del Toro I visited at Ojo de Agua a dwelling place 
of A^ery considerable extent. The slope forming the eastern Avail of 
the valley was dotted over with the foundation walls of huts of a 
rectangular shape; on the western slope, on the other hand, there 
were none. In digging up a mound on the w^estern side I found 
numerous graves; consequently that side had been reserved for the 
dead. 

The grave mound is about 13 meters high and 36 meters in 
diameter. The graves may have been originally marked above the 
surface of the earth by circles of small stones. I found traces of them 
at the top of the mound. The mound had evidently, in the process 
of time, sunk considerabh^ ; I could judge that that was so by the 
skeletons and objects buried there being found in all sorts of posi- 
tions. Professor Retzius informs me that the heads from this locality, 
too, are deformed. Many objects were here found in the graves. It 
is worthy of remark that in almost every grave rattles, consisting of 
the fruit of the Jvghms avstralis, Avere met AA'ith. A specimen of the 
same description Avas also found, as I haA'e aboA'e pointed out, in the 
grave of a child at Casabindo. Clay vessels of different types were 
A'ery common. In addition to a number of other objects resembling 
those found in the graves at Casabindo I also came upon some imple- 
ments here which deserA^e a sj^ecial mention, as a sort of Avooden 
knives of different sizes, the greater ones (pi. ix, figs. 1, 2) used 
possibly as kniA^es in battle. The Avood in them is particularly heaA^y 
and hard, and was undoubtedly brought from Chaco. Some comblike 
instruments of Avood, one of Avhich is shown in plate ix, figure 4, were 
often found. As to the use they Avere put to, hoAvever, I do not ven- 
ture even upon a guess. Plate ix, figure 5, shows a copper imple- 
ment Avitli Avooden handle. Implements of that kind, but lacking 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — von Rosen. 



Plate V. 




Fig 1. — Bakkow in Mountain kas^, puima de Jujuy. 




Fig. 2.— Small Stone Altars where Coca is Sacrificed by Puna Indians. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — von Rosen. 



Plate VI. 




Fig. 1.— Loess Formation in the Tarija Valley. 




Fig. 2.— Loess Formation in the Tarija Valley. 



ARCHEOLOGICAL RESEARCHES IN ARGENTINA AND BOLIVIA. 579 

wooden handles, are common enough among the linds in <yr.[vrs in 
the Puna and neighboring districts. This is the hrsl time (hev have, 
ever been discovered wilh their wooden handk's still attached (o (Ih'iu. 
There is nothing to show that the handle was bound on with (lnvad or 
was incased in leather; hence one nnist assume that the copixM- im- 
plement retained its place in the handle by reason of the pi-essure of 
the hand holding it. It is my opinion that these implements were 
used in cutting out leather. 

Before drawing this account to a close, I desire to make mention 
of a dwelling place that I came upon at Tolomosa, ((uite close to 
Tarija, in Bolivia. This dwelling place was far larger, l)oth in 
extent and in wealth of relics of the past, than any of those I have 
previously described, and derives, moreover, a special interest from 
the fact that nothing as regards the archeology of that neighbor- 
hood was known before. Owing to the loose nature of the soil, 
however, and to the tropical rains, all the remains of foundation 
walls, etc., had been destroyed. The picture of plate vi and on plate 
MI, figure 1, show how the ground, by reason of its loose consistency,' 
has been scored and furrowed by the rain, so as to produce the most 
marvelous shapes and figures in its surface. The ground, however,' 
there was dotted almost all over, for an area of upward of a s(i[uare 
kilometer, with splinters of pottery, arrowheads, spindle whorls, 
ornaments, copper implements, etc., while here and there the rain 
liad partially uncovered urns, which it was then possible to dig out 
of the soil that still encompassed them. To give an idea of the 
abundance of relics with which the ground around this dwelling 
place was strewn, I may mention that, among other things, I found 
upward of 3,000 artistically beaten arrowheads (pi, x, figs. 1 to 5, 
7 to 0, 12, 15, and 17) of almost every type, made of flint, obsidian, 
chalcedony, and rock crystal, and upward of 500 spindle whorls of 
stone of 24 distinct main types (pi. x, figs. 14, 16, and 18). Further 
urns of the type Avhich is characteristic of this locality (pi. viii, fig. 
1). An urn of an approximately similar appearance is figured in 
Doctor Lehmann-Nitsche's catalogue of the finds in the Puna." 

Some other clay vessels of different types were also found. One 
who is figured on plate viii, figure 2, is of a shape that is very com- 
mon in Peru. Among other finds, I may mention mortars of stone, 
a grinding stone with two handles, stone rings, in some cases evi- 
dently used as club heads. Further, some pendants in the shape of 
animal figures (see pi. x, figs. 11. 13), a rattlesnake carved in bone 
(pi. X, fig. G), and phallus-like pendants of stone (pi. x, fig. 10) 
and burnt clay. A fe^\ specimens of copper ware — such as rings 

o Lehmann-Nitsche. Catitlogo de las Antigiiedades de la Provincia de Jujuy. 
La Plata 1903. Lam. IV, G, 6. 



580 ARCHEOLOGICAL RESEARCHES TN ARGENTINA AND BOLIVIA. 

for the arms and for the fingers, pins with heads shaped to resemble 
the Llama's, pierced metal disks, implements of the same ty23e as 
those common in the Puna, and fragments of tweezers — were also 
found. Some of the copper specimens I have had analyzed, with 
the result that the material of which they are made is pronounced 
to be of sterling quality, with but trifling traces of any impurities. 
The finds from Tolomosa, as well as the other collections I made 
during the progress of the expedition, are undergoing examination, 
and I trust I may be able to complete my work upon them in the 
near future. The collections are all at the ethnological section 
of the Eiksmuseum in Stockholm. 

To judge by the finds from the various dwelling places, it would 
seem as though Ojo de Agua and Casabindo were inhabited by the 
same tribe, or at all events by tribes nearly related to each other, 
while in the Tarija Valley, on the other hand, there would appear to 
have dwelt a population considerably dissimilar to those in the above- 
enumerated localities. The majority of the specimens found in the 
graves at Ojo de Agua have counterparts among the finds from Casa- 
bindo, e. g., llama bits, bows, implements and ornaments of copper, 
etc. Common to both localities was the custom of depositing walnut 
rattles in the graves. These rattles, whose place of origin must have 
been far-distant wooded regions, were possibly obtained by way of 
barter with some tribe of the Chaco Indians, or were cherished as 
relics in commemoration of warlike raids into far-off territories. 
The find of marine mussels proves that the inhabitants of the Puna 
must have come into contact with tribes who lived far removed from 
them. The custom of burying children in clay vessels was preva- 
lent both at Ojo de Agua and at Casabindo, and all the heads from 
those two localities display deformation both as regards adults and 
children. The only head, on the other hand, which I succeeded in dis- 
covering in the Tarija Valley does not show any trace of having been 
deformed. The specimens discovered at the last-mentioned locality 
are, moreover, with few" exceptions, of an entirely different type from 
the Puna ones. The few isolated articles that are similar to specimens 
from Ojo de Agua and Casabindo, have, in all probability, come into 
the hands of the inhabitants of the Tarija Valle}' through the channel 
of trade with the people of the Puna. Further, at several dwelling 
places in the Puna, among others at Cangrejillos, I discovered here 
and there an isolated specimen of arrowheads analogous to those 
which are characteristic, botli in type and variety of flint, of the 
Tarija Valley. As regards the age of the different dwelling places, 
the finding of the iron knife and the cow horn at Casabindo proves, 
of course, that the ancient culture, at any rate at that locality, con- 
tinued on till the invasion of the Spaniards; but at all the other dwel- 



ARCIIEOLOGICAL RESEARCHES IN ARGENTINA AND BOLIVIA. 581 

ling* places I investigated, both in the l^una and at Toloniosa, no 
object was met with that could suggest foreign influence, and that, 
although the number of specimens obtained from the last-named 
locality was several thousands, it is still a tolerably risky |)i"oceed- 
ing to endeavor to identify the former inhabitants of the dwelling 
places with an}' still extant Indian tribe. More extensive research is 
requisite before that can be attemi)ted with any certainty of correct- 
ness. Many circumstances point, nevertheless, to the Indians now 
living in the Puna, though their numbers are exceedingly small, as 
descendants of the tribes that were once so numerous and so i>owerful 
in these regions. In spite of the great uncertainty still attachi.ng to 
this problem, I have, nevertheless, thought it desirable to touch u]:)on 
it here, in order to give rise possibly to a discussion upon it. 



I 



Smithsoni:in Roport, 1 904.— von Rospn 



Plate VII. 




Fig. 1 .—Loess Fohmatiun in thl Tarua Vallly. In Fuhegruund Fus-^il Bonls of 
THE Mastodon Andium, Washed Out by Rain. 




Fig. 2.— Modern Ind'an Hut in the Tarua Valley. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — von Rosen. 



Plate VIII. 












"■^'•'i^s^lr^skii'' »**^ijr 





.■V15>^ 




FiQ. 1. Painted Clay Vessel, Tarija. Height, 17 Cm. -Fig. 2. Red Clay Vessel. Tarija. 
Height, 20.7 Cm -Fig. 3. Copper Implement. Casabindo. Breadth, 6.9 Cm -FiQ. 4. 
Mutilated Stone Adz, Casabindo. Length, 1 1 Cm. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — von Roser 



Plate IX. 





Fig. 1. Wooden Iiviflemint, Ojo de Agua. Length, 47 Cm.— Fig. 2. Wooden Im- 
plement, Ojo de Agua. Length, 31 Cm.— Fig. 3. Wooden Goblet, Casabindo. 
Height, 'l6.1 Cm.— Fig. 4. Copper Chisel with Wooden Handle Length, 
14.5 Cm. 



Smithsonian Repoil, 1904 — von Rosen. 



Plate X. 






'-a 



i."' 




r 



iA 




4 








^' 1 



^ 



\i 





12 




4 




4 




15 



16 



18 



Objects Found at the Ancient Dwelling Place near Tolomosa, in the Tarija 
Valley. Natural Size. 



A GENERAL VIEAV OF THE ARCHEOLOGY OF THE 
PUEBLO REGION. 



By Edgar L. Hewett. 



I. Lijniits of the Region. 

The term '' pueblo region '' luis not 3'et been acceptably defined. 
As used in this paper it designates that portion of the United States 
over which are distributed the archeological remains and the living 
remnants of those aboriginal North American tribes which from 
their chief common characteristic, that of permanent substantial 
house building, received from the Spanish conquerors the name of 
Pueblo or town Indians. It embraces almost the whole of New 
Mexico and Arizona, with small portions of southwestern Colorado 
and southeastern Utah. There is probably no reason why the term 
should not be extended to embrace large portions of the states of 
Sonora and Chihuahua, in Old Mexico. 

To determine the exact limits of the pueblo region is one of the 
tasks of American archeology that awaits, completion. Special ex- 
ploration Avith a view to the determination of these limits has not 
yet been undertaken. However, the archeological remains are of so 
conspicuous a character that the boundaries are approximately 
revealed. I accept the Pecos valley, in eastern New Mexico, with its 
tributary the Gallinas, as the eastern limit. Straggling ruins are 
found farther east, in Scott County, Kans., and in the Canadian 
valley, in Texas; but these are remains of temporary settlements. 
There is no well-established evidence of serious attempts by the 
aborigines to form permanent substantial settlements upon the 
" great plains," Those easterly remains of pueblo culture in the 
Gallinas valley near where the city of Las Vegas now stands and 
in the Pecos valley in the vicinity of the present Anton Chico were 
also comparatively transitory. The northern limit is less definite, 
but is approximately the northern rim of the San Juan Basin, in 
Colorado and Utah. Such pueblo settlements as were formed north of 
the San Juan-Grand divide — for example, those of the Lost Canyon 

583 



584 GENERAL VIEW OF ARCHEOLOGY OF THE PUEBLO REGION. 

and others in (lie Dolores drninage — were of little iini)ortancc. On 
the west and northwest the limit is the northwestern outline of the 
basin of the Kio Colorado. Pueblo settlements beyond this boundary 
were few. On the east side of the rivi>r tyi^ical pueblo culture 
flourished. Passinij to the western side we find it iiradually ceased 
to be characteristically |)uel)l(). On th(> south the boundary as 
accei)ted in this |)aper is the southern rim of the (lila valley. This 
limitation is purely arbitrary, howe\(M\ as traces of identical or but 
sli^'htly differin^i*' culture extend nnich farther south. 

An examination of the ])hysiooraphy of the frontiers of this cul- 
ture is instructive. East of the IVcos and of the Rocky mountains 
are the vast unbioken grassy plains, the great cattle range of recent 
years, and the favorite buffalo range of earlier times. The buffalo 
afforded the priucii)al food supply for the plains Indians. It was 
an unstable source of subsistence. This, in primitive life, induces 
a correspoiulingly nu)bile jiopulation, whereas a culture of the 
Pueblo typc^ is based on sedentary habits. Physiogi'a])hic conditions 
account i'ov the arrest of Pueblo culture (>ast of the Pecos. Its 
failure to extend west of the C\)lora(lo is lil<e\vis(> a niattcu- of i)hysi- 
ography, for along the lower course of this river absolute aridity 
prevented settlenxMit, while farther up the givat chasm of the Grand 
Canyon barred migration. 'J'he reason for the arivst of the Pueblo 
frontier on the north with the San fluan-tiirand watei'shed is not 
so apparent. To the northeast was an excellent game country, full 
of warlike hunting tribes, forming an effective barrier in that direc- 
tion, but to the northwest thi-ough Utah and Nevada the physi- 
ographic coiulitious W(M'e altogether favorable to the Pueblo culture, 
and an oi)en gateway in that direction is found east of the Colorado. 
On the south the (lila does not constitute either a physiographic or 
ethnographic l)oundary, since similar conditions extend down into 
INFexico. Py conunon usage the name ''Pueblo" is applied only to 
tribes within ihe United States, disregarding the ethnic similarities 
of uoith Mexican tribes. Here we find natural gateways for the 
entrant'C of early iuunigrants into Pueblo t(>rritory from the Rio 
(Jrande at the southeast and along the (Jila and its tributaries from 
the southwest. 

There is thus inclosed within the boundaries above described a 
physiographic area which is accurately charactiM-i/.ed by the term 
" semiarid, " llu' limits of which are approximately coextensive with 
the limits of the Pueblo cultui'c. The climatic conditions are i)ecul- 
iarly delinite. Dryness is the piwailing condition. Precipitation 
is \(My une(|ually distributiMl throughout the yeai'. Heavy rainfalls 
of from a lew hours to some clays' duration are followed by months 
devoid of moisture. The character of the soil is such that the effects 
of rainfall rapidly disappear. Absorption, evaporation, and drain- 



GENERAL VIEW OF ARCHEOLOGY OF TUK IM'KnLO REGION. 5H5 

i\ge procood a\ ith i;roat rapidity. Hctwooii the IVcos and the Colo- 
rado are oxtciisivo ])latoaus of inferior <^rass lands, timbered nionn- 
tain ran«2;es, narrow arable valleys, and vast stretches of sandy 
desert. Much of the area exceeds a mile above sea level. Tlie 
country was probably always deficient in <2:ame, neitlier were wild 
fruits })lentiful, nor ^\ as any indiuiMious food supply abundant. 

These physioiiraphic conditions exercised a coerciN'e inlluence over 
the pi-imitive culture of the Southwest, makin«jf fixed alxxles and an 
agricultural basis of food sui)i)ly necessary. To the east and nortli 
nomadic hunting tribes followed where the food (juest led them. 
They shunned the soutJnvestern desert for the same reason that the 
bulfalo did. Navahoes, Comanches, and Apaches did not invade 
this region until comparatively recent 3'ears, for obvious ivasons. 
In the economic systems of primitive men we find the germs of up- 
to-date conmiercialism. AVealth is obtained by producing it and by 
dispossessing others of it. The tribes mentioned belonged to the 
predatory class. As game was scarce in the Southwest, there was no 
reason for their gomg there until it l)ecamc worth while for predatory 
reasons. 

The true indigines of the Southwest Avere necessarily agricultur- 
ists. Coming into a region where game and wild fruits afforded 
insufficient subsistence, they, probably partly from previous experi- 
ence and partly from innuediate necessity, were constrained to sup- 
plement their food supply by the cultivation of -food plants. The 
preparation of ground for agriculture and the necessary devices for 
the utilization of water for irrigation induced a comparatively per- 
manent abode and substantial house building. Settlements, with rare 
exceptions, were perforce clustered in narrow valleys along water- 
ways, or in cliffs, or on mesa tops, within reach of streams or peren- 
nial springs. 

Thus the indigines of the Southwest were and are Pueblos (town 
builders) through the coercion of physiographic environment. As 
an ethnic division they are a most indefinite one, embracing several 
well-established linguistic stocks and numerous minor dialectic 
groups, wliich become more numerous the farther back they are 
traced. Every existing Pueblo tribe that has been studied has been 
found to be composite, formed by combination of sundry ethnic 
groups more or less anuilganuited. Incoming bands, regardless of 
blood or previous condition, if thejj came seeking permanent abode, 
became Pueblos, Avhether they amalgamated closely by blood with 
previous settlers or not, by virtue of their enforced adoption of the 
mode of life made necessary by the physiograi)hic conditions of the 
region. Similarity of house life, of jfood, of method of acquiring the 
same, of inventions necessary to food i)roduction, of utensils for con- 
serving and transporting the scant and precious water supply, of 



586 GENERAL VIEW OF ARCHEOLOGY OF THE PUEBLO REGION. 

experience Avith the elements and soil, of suffering from famine and 
foes, in time led to a degree of like-mindedness which found corre- 
sponding expression in religious belief, in esthetic feeling, in social 
organization. The Pueblo tribes, while remaining unlike as to lan- 
guage and somatic characteristics, naturally became alike in general 
and specific culture. Some of these elements of likeness may be 
stated as follows: They were all producing rather than predatory 
tribes; they preferred sedentary to nomadic life; they preferred 
stable rather than transitory homes; they developed a societary sys- 
tem founded on " mother right ; " they evolved a highly complex 
theogony, characterized by elaborate rain and growth ceremonials; 
they developed highly the art of pottery with elaborate symbolic 
ornamentation. 

The name '' Pueblo " is thus almost without ethnological signifi- 
cance, having no reference to tribal or linguistic relationship, but 
relating mainly to a type of culture that developed in response to the 
influence of a definite physiographic environment, the limits of which 
were fixed by nature as above set forth. 

11. Classes of Archeological Remains. 

A much greater variety of archeological remains exists in the 
Southwest than in other j>arts of the United States, owing to the per- 
manence of abodes, the adaptation of climate to the preservation of 
artifacts usually perishable, and the comparatively uninhabited con- 
dition. Wliile in other parts of the country little save the contents 
of graves, consisting of stone implements, pottery, and osseous re- 
mains, now exist, and the majority of these lost or disturbed by the 
progress of agriculture, here we find not only graves and all the usual 
mortuary remains, but extensive remains of houses in every stage of 
preservation, with all the appurtenances of domestic life preserved 
therein, and numerous shrines, ceremonial deposits, and an extensive 
paleography displaying the esthetic and religious life. 

The ruins of domiciliary structures are capable of division, not on 
structural differences, but by situation, into the two general classes — 
pueblos and cliff dwellings. The first eml)races all those multiple- 
chambered structures, either single or in clusters, that are situated 
onmesasor in valleys independent of support from natural rock walls. 
The second includes those that are wholly or in part embraced within 
cliffs, built against cliffs, or situated on ledges under overhanging 
cliffs, either single or multiple chambered. The location of the vil- 
lage of a pre-Columbian sedentary tribe w^as selected primarily with 
reference to water and arable lands. This was modified in time by 
the necessities of defense against incoming predatory enemies, which 
multiplied as the Pueblos accumulated food supplies sufficient to 
make them desirable prey. The kind of a house to be built was 



Smithsonian Report, 1904.— Hewett. 



Plate I. 




Fig. 1.— Ruins of Puye Pueblo, Pajarito Park, New Mexico. 




Fig. 2.— Cliff Dwellings in Sandia Canyon, Pajarito Park, New Mexico 

I Restored). 

Re.storatioii by Kt'iinctli M. Cliapmau. 



GENERAL VIEW OF ARCHEOT.OOY OF THE PUEBLO REOIOX. 5S7 

(leteniiiiicd l)y tlu' "Ti'oloo-y of the location. If in the open, saiidsloiic 
(>r tufa blocks, bowklers, and adobe were used, as furnished by the 
environment, and the structure timbered with what nature supplied. 
If considerations of defense necessitated a cliff dwellin<;, its character 
was a geological (juestion. (Ireat natural caves and recesses under 
overhanging cliffs were selected, and houses not structurally differ- 
ent from the j)uebl()s in (he open weiv built within them. Such for- 
nuitions occur numerously throughout the Rio Colorado drainage 
area. Accordingly we find this class of cliff dwellings distributed 
over the valleys of the San Juan, Little Colorado, Gila, and tlieir 
tributaries. 

In cliffs of volcanic tufa, or other material sufficiently friable to 
permit of easy working with stone tools, dwellings were excavated. 
Small natural caves in such regions were utilized as dwellings, with 
or without further excavation, and I)()th with and without masonry. 
Large open caves Avere sometimes walled up. Interior walls were 
sometimes built. Houses not structurally unlike pueblos in the open 
were built in front of these excavated rooms against the cliffs. The 
name " cavate dwelling" (originally proposed by l^rofessor Mason) 
has long been applied to excavated cliff dwellings. They are distrib- 
uted over the four drainage basins of the pueblo region, being most 
numerous on the western tributaries of the Rio Grande, the northern 
tributaries of the San Juan, and the northern tributaries of the Gila, 
particularly the Rio Verde. 

III. Distribution. 

The distribution of the Pueblo culture, as disclosed by archeolog- 
ical remains, was determined primarily by drainage. The region lies 
on both sides of the Continental divide. The eastern portion is 
drained by the Rio Grande and its tributaries; the western by three 
principal tributaries of the Rio Colorado, viz, the San Juan, the Lit- 
tle Colorado, and the Gila. These four drainage basins constitute 
the primary seats of Pueblo culture. 

The primal n^eds of primitive man are water, food, and shelter. 
In the Southwest, water was first in importance. "\'\liere water was, 
food was possible. Such game as the country supj^orted frequented 
waterways and springs, and here only were to be found the conditions 
necessary to the production of food plants. Accordingly, the exten- 
sion of the indigenous culture was directed by the drainage, and so 
thoroughly did it overspread the region under consideration that 
there is not a valley of any consequence from the Pecos to the Colo- 
rado, and from the San Juan to the Gila, that is without its charac- 
teristic archeological remains. Following is a list of the jirincipal 
valleys, basins, canyons, and mesas containing ruins: 



588 GENERAL VIEW OF ARCHEOLOGY OF THE PUEBLO REGION. 



Main valley from El Paso 
Eastern trll)utaries : 

The upper Pecos. 

The Gallinas. 

The Tiinque. 

The Galisteo. 

The Pojoaque. 

The Nambe. 

The basin of 
lakes. 

The Tajique. 

The San Pedro. 

The Santa Fe. 

The Tesuque. 

The Santa Cruz. 
Western tributaries : 

The Chama. 

The Santa Clara. 
Numerous dry creeks of 



1. Rio Grande Droinafic 
to Embudo Canyon. 

Western tributaries — Continued. 

The Alamo. 

The Pajarito. 

The Rito de los Frijoles. 

Canada de Cochiti. 

The Puerco. 

The Cebollita. 

Montezuma Mesa. 

The Ojo Caliente. 

The Chupadero. 

The Saudia. 

The Bravo. 

Canada de la Cuesta Colorada. 

The Jemez. 

The San Jose. 

The Alamosa. 

The Mimbres (inland), 
the Acoma Plateau and Magdalena district. 



the Manzano salt 



2. Hon J 
Main valley from source to junction 
Southern tributaries : 
In New Mexico — 

Canyon Largo. 

Companero Canyon. 

Gobernador Canyon. 

Chaco Canyon. 
In Arizona — 

The Chinlee. 

The Ilospitito. 

Canyon del Muerto. 

Gothic Wash. 

Marsh Pass. 

Canyon de Chelly. 

The Carrizo. 

Monument Canyon. 

The Nashlini. 

Paiute Canyon. 
Northern tributaries : 
In Colorado — 

Las Animas. 



nan Drainage. 
with Pine Creek. 

Northern tributaries — Continued. 
In Colorado — Continued. 

The Mancos. 

Moccasin Canyon. 

Ute Canyon. 

Johnson Canyon. 

The Yellowjacket. 

La Plata. 

The Mesa Yerde. 

Navaho Canyon. 

Ruin Canyon. 

The McElmo. 
In Utah— 

The Hovenweep. 

The Recapture. 

Butler Wash. 

Grand Gulch. 

The Montezuma. 

The Cottonwood. 

Comb Wash. 



3. Little Colorado Drainage. 



Main valley, entire course. 
Northern tributaries: 

The Moencopie. 

Corn Creek. 

The Puerco. 

The Carrizo. 

The Ilopi Plateau. 

Le Roux Wash. 

Cottonwood Wash. 



Northern tributaries — Continued. 

The Zuni. 
Southern tril>utaries : 

Silver Creek. 

Walnut Canyon. 

The Chevlon. 

Chavez Pass. 



i 



GENERAL VIEW OF ARCHEOLOGY OF THE PUEBLO REGION. 589 

'/. Gild Drai)ia(jc. 

M.iin valloy from source to below IMu'iiix. 

Northern tributaries: Nortbcrii Iriitutaries — Coiiliiiued. 

The ^'er(Ie. Beaver Creek. 

Oak Creek. Pine Creek. 

Clear Creek. The Salt. 

The East Verde. Cherry Creek. 

The Tonto. The Cibiou. 

Canyon Creek. White Mountain Creek. 

The Carrizo. The IMnal. 

The Bonito. Eagle Creek. 

The San Carlos. The Blue. 

The San Francisco. Southern tributary : 

The Tularosa. The San Pedro. 



The Cottonwood. 



IV. Preservation. 



Present state. — The present state of preservation of the south- 
western ruins depends upon several conditions. Clitf dwellings, 
Ix^cause of their sheltered situation, are much better preserved than 
pueblos in the open. Of the former class those of the excavated type 
are naturally the best preserved, since in nuiny of them there are no 
artificial walls at all and deterioration occurs only with the falling 
away of the natural rock. This form of deterioration does occur to 
a destructive extent in many places and manifestly is not preventable, 
but even in the absence of all protective measures thousands of speci- 
mens of this class of domiciles would remain in a state of perfect 
preservation for ages. The pueblo-like cliif dwellings being situ- 
ated under heavy overhanging ledges are well protected from the 
elements and unmolested would endure for centuries. But their 
destruction seems to have been made the peculiar pastime of a cer- 
tain class of human beings. The early explorers of the iSIancos 
Canyon would now find, in many cases, unrecognizal>le heaps of stone 
wdiere thirty years ago were well-preserved structures. The excava- 
tion of cliff dwellings without due regard to the preservation of walls 
should be made a grave misdemeanor. The j^reservation of these 
remains is now almost entirely a matter of protection from vandals, 
since they are quite perfectly sheltered from the elements. 

The ruins of pueblos are exposed not only to vandalism but also 
to the constant destructive effects of the weather. In most cases the 
buildings are almost totally destroyed, only small fragments of walls 
remaining standing above the debris. Noted exceptions to this are 
illustrated in accompanying plates. The height of walls bears little 
relation to the age of ruins. The difference in the state of preser- 
vation is due principally to the character of the material used in con- 
struction and the degree of exposure to vandalism. In some cases 
walls have been taken down by the settlers and the stones used in the 



590 GENERAL VIEW OF ARCHEOLOGY OF THE PUEBLO REGION. 

construction of buildings, corrals, etc. Much destruction ^Yas 
Avrought in earlier times by the removal of the timbers for firewood b}^ 
settlers and passing campers, thus causing the collapse of all walls 
above the first story. Ruins in the treeless desert have suffered 
especially from this cause. The nuiterial used in building has much 
to do Avith the state of preservation. Other things being equal, the 
pueblos that Avere built of small bowlders and adobe were the first 
to succumb to the elements and are most reduced, the convex surfaces 
of the stones affording little stability to the walls as the plastering 
and chinking material Aveathered out. The Rio Grande pueblos A\'ere 
mostly of this class and are reduced to mounds. SomcAvhat more 
durable Avere those built of tufa blocks as in the Pajarito Park nueb- 
los. But here also the imperfectly flattened surfaces of the stones are 
readily freed by the Aveather from the supporting mortar and chink- 
ing stones, and collapse of the Avails readily occurs. The best pre- 
serA'ed of all are those built of laminated sandstone as in Chaco 
Canyon. The flat slabs fit together perfectly Avith but little mortar 
or chinking to Aveather out, so that the Avails, even in the absence of 
timbers, renuiin intact until throAvn down by luunan agenc3^ 

Future jweser cation. — The subject of preservation of American 
antiquities is noAv receiving an amount of attention never heretofore 
accorded it. For a quartei- of a century l -tain thoughtful people 
have been calling attention to the matter and the continuous publica- 
tion of archeological and ethnoh)gical literature is bearing fruit. 
Learned societies, scientific and educational institutions, legislatiAC 
bodies, and public-spirited individuals are beginning to devote to the 
question consideration commensurate Avith its importance. The prob- 
lem is an intricate one. A more general diffusion of information con- 
cerning it is urgently needed. 

Of the archeological remains in the SoutliAvest, probably nine- 
tenths are on lands yet oAvned or controlled by the (xovernment of 
the United States, mainly upon forest reserves, Indian reservations, 
lands Avithdrawn from entry for special purposes, military reserva- 
tions, and unappropriated public lands. So the question nuiy still 
be dealt Avith through the National Congress and Executive Depart- 
ments. In some cases it may become necessary to interest States and 
Territories in preservative measures, and in others private oAvners, 
railroad companies, and companies oAvning land grants Avill need to 
be impressed Avith the importance of preserving these remains for 
archeological research. 

Preservation must be: 

(1) Permanent in cases Avhere the condition and historic or ethnic 
significance of the ruins give them special educational value. 

(2) Temporary in the case of all aboriginal buildings, graves, and 
other archeological remains not included in the first class, the pro- 



Smithsonian Repo-t, 1904.— Hewett. 



Plate IV. 




Fig. 1.— Pueblo Ruins, Montezuma Mesa, New Mexico. 




Fig. 2.— Cliff Dwelling, Montezuma Mesa, New Mexico. 



GENERAL VIEW OF ARCHEOLOGY OV THE PTEULO REGION'. 5<)1 

tection to be afforded until all data of importance lo sciciicc have Im-cm 
invest i pi ted and all artifacts in connection therewith i-enioved to 
museums for permanent preservation. 
Preservation is to be secured : 

(1) Throu^rh Confrress: lender special legislation creatinj? national 
archeological reservations or parks and <>-eneral le<>:islation est .hlish- 
ing a system of custodianship and administration over all arclieo- 
logical remains on the lands owned or controlled l)y the Ciovernment 
of the United States. Up to date but one measure looking toward the 
preservation of antiquities has ever been passed by the National Con- 
gress, and this i:)rovided for.the preservation of a single building — 
Casa Grande, in Arizona. As early as 1896 a general bill was pre- 
pared and presented to the National Congress and similar measures 
have been introduced since from time to time down to the oSth 
Congress, but none have passed. 

(2) Through Executive Departments: By the exercise of powers 
inherent in such departments under the Constitution and (ieneral 
Statutes, AVith the single exception above noted, all that has been 
accomplished by Avay of protection of antiquities has been by this 
method. It is exceedingly fortunate that, as will be seen further on, 
so much can be provided for incidentally in connection with the ad- 
ministration of our great economic, Indian, and military interests, 
thus involving but little additional expense. 

By virtue of section 441, United States Revised Statutes, the care 
and custody of the public lands is vested in the Secretary of the 
Interior, and section 453 declares that the Commissioner of the Gen- 
eral Land Office shall j^erform, under the direction of the Secretary 
of the Interior, all executive duties in any wise respecting such lands. 
There can be no question that this statute places upon the Department 
of the Interior and the General Land Office the obligation to protect 
the archeological remains that are upon the public lands as definitel}'^ 
as it does any other values thereon. 

In the exercise of the power thus conferred a policy has developed 
in the General Land Office and Office of Indian Affairs, under the 
Department of the Interior, that is highly commendable as far as it 
goes. This policy utilizes forest supervisors and rangers, special 
agents, Indian school superintendents. Indian agents, additional 
farmers, and police in the protection of ruins in connection with and 
as one of their regular duties for the avowed purpose of preserving 
them for scientific investigation. It establishes the liberal policy 
that any competent scientist Avho desires to })lace the material se- 
cured in a jMiblic museum Avill be authorized by the Department of 
the Interior to examine ruins, but that no ])erson will be jiermitted 
to excavate them for the purpose of acquiring specimens for traffic 
or private gain, and that willful destruction of historic and prehis- 



592 GENERAL VIEW OF ARCHEOLOGY OF THE PUEBLO REGION. 



toric landmarks must cease. Especially noteworthy is the emphasis 
laid by the Commissioner of the (General Land Office on " the im- 
2)ortance of furthering in ever}^ Avay possible researches Avith a yiew 
to increasing the knowledge of such objects and aiding the general 
advancement of archeological science." Every thinking man will 
uphold this policy most cordially. 

As above stated, practically all that has been accomplished thus 
far has been through the exercise of powers inherent in the executive 
branches of the Department of the Interior. This authority is read- 
ily invoked, and in the past has responded with great promptness to 
every reasonable recommendation. By this means the following pro- 
tectiye measures haye been secured : 

1. Through the General Land Office : 

(a) All ruins on forest reserves'* have been placed under the care 
of the regular forest rangers. This includes the vast number of 
ruins on the Gila Forest Reserye, the Black Mesa Forest Reserve, the 
San Francisco Mountains For(>st Reserve, and a considerable num- 
ber on the Grand Canyon Forest Reserve. 

(h) The Pajarito Park, in New Mexico; the Mesa Verde Park, in 
Colorado, districts containing vast numbers of prehistoric ruins, and 
a tract on which stands El Morro or Inscription Rock, in New Mexico, 
a most important historic landmark, have been withdrawn from dis- 
posal nnder the public-land laws and recommended for permanent 
preservation as national parks, as has also the petrified forest in Ari- 
zona, withdrawn primarily for preservation as a natural wonder, but 
also containing important ruins. 

(c) The proposed Jemez and Taos forest reserves, in New Mexico. 
and the proposed Rio Verde Forest Reserve, in Arizona, have been 
withdrawn from entry or disposal. This will incidentally preserve 
a vast number of important ruins. 

(d) The ruins situated on unappropriated public lands have been 
held to be subject to the authority of the Department of the Interior 
and orders have been issued through special agents prohibiting injury 
and unauthorized excavation. 

2. Through the Office of Indian Affairs: 

(a) Special custodians have been appointed for ruins in Canyons 
del Muerto and de Chelly on the Navaho Reservation in Arizona; 
for those on Mesa Verde on the southern Ute Reservation in Colo- 
rado, and for those on the Zuni Reservation in New Mexico. 

(h) The office prohibits all unauthorized persons from entering 
Indian reservations and despoiling ruins or carrying away remains 
of antiquit}^ 

a Jurisdiction over forest reserves transferred to Bureau of Forestry, Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, February 1, 1905. 



tilONKIt.M. VIKW OK AKriU:OL(H; V or TIIK ITKIJLO KEdlON. 5'.)'^ 

{(■) Oi-dcr (if lM'l)ni;ir-y 11, 11)0:», proliihiis licensed Iiidiiin ti-aders 
froiu dealiiiu- in prehistoric wai-cs, thus reinovinii' IVoni the Indians 
and otliei- jxTsoiis the temptation to despoil th(> ancient ceinetei'ies for 
the sake of llie small |)ro(its to he derived therefrom. This corrects 
an abuse that has heen \(mt pre\alent and disastrous. 

Up to the present time there has heen no coordination of the elh)rts 
of the various depai'tments of ii()\-ei-nment alonii' this line; no i^cneral 
supervision is exei'cised ; no systematic repoi'ts on the condition of the 
ruins are reciuired: no system for i-eyu latino- excavations and the 
disposition of specimens exists. The mattei- shoidd no lonii'er be 
dealt Avith s|)oradically. V>'hat is needed is a comprehensive system 
of atlministration and re^-ulation for the wliole subject. 

iNIeasures for the ])reservation of anti(piities can not be intelligently 
framed without consideration of their situation with reference to 
ownership or jurisdiction. In this res|)ect all those of the Pueblo 
re<>:i()n may be classilied as in the following!,- list. Below each class I 
have indicated the executi\'e ollicer ha\inii- jurisdiction over the class 
of lands named and necessarily of all anti<|uities thereon. 

1. I'liose oil nntioiinl I'cserxalioiis or parks: 

The Secretary of tlie Interior. 
L'. Tliose on forest reserves : 

The head of the Knreau of Forestry, under the Secretary of Agriculture. 
;'.. Those on Indian reservations: 

Tlie Comniissioner of Indian Affairs, under the Secretary of the Interior. 
L Tliose on ndlitary reservations : 

The Secretary of War. 
."). Those on unaittiropriated public lands: 

The Commissioner of the General Land Olfice, under th(> Secretary of the 
Interior. 
(). Those on lands witlidrawn from entry for special purposes: 

The Commissioner of the General Land OtHce, under the Secretary of tlie 
Interior. 

7. Those on State lands. 

8. Those on private lands (railroad liuids. grants, homesteads, etc.). 

In the appended list of imi)oi-tant districts and sites the jurisdiction 
if known is indicated. 

The first class includes at present only Casa (irande in Arizona, 
but important additions to this class are contemplated by certain 
bills that have been before Coni>ress for some years. The i^rotectioii 
of ruins in such reservations or parks is always adequately provided 
for by special service. 

The second class, those on forest reserves, includes, as will be seen 
by reference to the list, a large proportion of the most imixirtant 
ruins. By act of Congress of February 1. UH)'k the administration 
of forest reserves was transferred from the Uonnnissioner of the 
General Land Office, Department of the Interior, to the forester and 
s.M I'JOl 38 



594 GENERAL VIEAV OF ARCHEOLOGY OF THE PUEBLO REGION. 

chief of the Bureau of Forestry, Department of Agriculture. Forest 
reserves are constantly patrolled l)y a force of forest rangers, and the 
policy developed in the General Land Office of makhig it the duty of 
these officials to protect ruins from despoliation is continued under 
the Bureau of Forestry. This is all that could be desired. It may 
be said that ruins of this class are the most fortunately situated of 
all, for they are no longer liable to alienation by sale or entry of the 
lands, and are adequately policed, with little or no expense for special 
service. Large additions -will be made to this class when the pro- 
posed Jemez, Taos, and Kio Verde forest reserves are established. 

The third class, those on Indian reservations, includes a large pro- 
portion of the most important sites. The Office of Indian Affairs 
fully recognizes the obligation to protect the ruins and prevent unau- 
thorized excavation, and is. moreover, furnished with appropria- 
tions and clothed with authority to utilize the same for th(> em- 
ployment of such additional service as is necessary. Special cus- 
todians are employed in districts of unusual importance, and this 
service will doubtless be extended as need therefor is shown. It may 
be said that all ruins that come under this class are in a position to be 
adequately protected. 

The fourth class, those on military reservations, are not numerous, 
and the attention of the War Department has not of late been called 
to the necessity of protecting them. Undoubtedly this Department 
would take the necessary steps if advised of the desirability of the 
same, and it d()ul:)tless has facilities for effective custodianship with- 
out providing special service therefor. 

The tifth class, those on public lands, are quite numei'oiis, but not 
nearly so numerous as has beeti supposed. The inadequacy of all 
general archeological measures that have been proposed heretofore, 
so far as I have been able to determine, lies fundamentally in the 
fact that they have not taken cognizance of the legal definition of the 
term " public lands." The courts have held the term "' ])ubbc lands " 
to signify the Federal lands lying open on the markel for preemp- 
tion or homestead, and that when the Oovernment has reserveil cer- 
tain holdings from preem})tion tliey ceased to be "public lands."" 
Thus limited, class five will probably not include over 15 per cent of 
all the rnins on lands owned or controlled b}^ the (ioA^ernment of the 
United States, and on the list of important districts and sites it Avill 
be seen that very fcAV fall within this category. These lands, with 
everything situated thereon, are constantly being alienated by pre- 
emption, railroad selections, and lieu selections. Furthermore, with 

"Oral opinion rendpretl by .TndSP Wellltnrn in civil snits in soutliern district 
• if California against A. II. and L. A. T'.lassiii^anic. See also T'nitcd States v. 
Tygh Valley Land and Live SldcU ('(iini)any (Ki Fed. Uep,, ('.'.»:'.). 



Smithsonian Report, 1904.— Hewett. 



Plate V. 




Fig. 1.— Ruins of Hungopavi, Chaco Canyon, New Mexico. 




Fig. 2.— Ruins of Kinklizhin, near Chaco Canyon, New Mexico. 



Smithsonian Report, 1 904.— Hewett. 



Plate VI. 




Fig. 1.— Ruins of KiNKUETbui, Chaco Canyun, New Mtxiuu. 




Fig. 2. -Cliff Dwelling, Mesa Verde Park, Ccorado. 



GENERAL VIEW OF AIU'IIEOl.OdY OF TIIH PUFBI.O HKOlON. rjUT) 

the adiuissiou of New Mcxia) and Ari/oiia as States, about 28,000,000 
acres of piiMic lands within theii- borders will ]>ass to those Coinnion- 
wealths, and their leoislatures will have to he invoked for Ihe i)ro- 
tectioii of I'nins thcicon. Thei-e are few. if anv. reniainin*'- eases 
where it is desii-ahle that ajirieultural or otherwise useful lands 
should he withheld from preemption or other disposal because of 
the ruins situaled upon (hem. ^^'here such cases do exist, it would be 
possible for the (ieneral Land OlHce, if informed bv recoirnized 
authority, to withhold by temporary withdrawal the smallest acre- 
age adequate to the protection of the buildings, cemeteries, etc., until 
excavated and reported on, after which the tracts should be released. 
There are several important isolated sites and some important dis- 
tricts situated on lands completely Avorthless for agricultural or other 
econ.omic puri)Oses which should be withdrawn by the (leneral Land 
Office, since an}' preemption of them would be solely for tlu> purpose 
of securing possession of the anti({uities thei-eon in \iolation of the 
spirit of the land laws. Cases in [)oint are the Chaco Canyon ruins, 
in noi'thwestern Xew Mexico, and those of Montezuma iSIesa, south- 
west of Acoma. The status of ruins on [)ublic lands, as that term 
is here used, in not at all satisfactory. The (leneral Land Office has 
done Avhat was possible by Avay of withdrawal and reconnnendation 
for Congressional action in cases of exceptional imi)ortance in which 
no economic interests were involved, and has prohibited unauthorized 
excavation, but it has been ruled that under no existing provision of 
law can funds be used to pay for custodianship. Accordingly the 
protection afforded must of necessity be inade(iuate. A slight amend- 
ment to the sundry civil bill would remedy this. 

Those of the sixth class, situated on lands withdrawn from entry or 
other disposal for special purposes, are very munerous, as may be seen 
from the list of important districts and sites. It is to be ho})ed that 
all in this class may l)e speedily transferred to classes 1 and 2, as 
contem[)lated by their withdrawal. With the establishment of 
Pajarito National Park and the Jenu'Z and Taos forest reserves the 
efficient and pernument protection of a large proportion of the most 
important of the ruins of the Rio (iraiule drainage will be assured. 
The creation of the ]Mesa Verde National Park and saving, by with- 
drawal, of as many of tlie Chaco Canyon pueblos as are on lands still 
open to preemption. Avould insure the pivservation of a fair propor- 
tion of the important sites of the San Juan drainage. AVith the 
establishment of the Rio Verde forest reserve all the great groups of 
the Gila drainage will have been brought incidentally under ade- 
quate permanent custodianship. The status of ruins of the sixth 
class is moi-e satisfactory than those of the fifth. They are preserved 
from alienation by preemption or other disposal and warning notices 



596 GENERAL VIEW OF ARCHEOLOGY OF THE PUEBLO REGION. 

are kept i)Osted thereon, iH-ohibitin*; injury and unauthorized exca- 
vations, l)ut these hinds are not policed for the same leason that 
those of chiss 5 are not. HoNvever, the orders of the Department 
of the Interior have been effective to a great extent and ruins on 
Avithdi-aMU lands are snlTering- l)ut little from vandalism. 

The seventh class, those situated on State lands, is inconsiderable 
at present, but with the admission of the Territories and subsequent 
segregation of their lands this class will reciuire consideration. As 
segregation Avill not, as a rule, be in large areas, but by single sec- 
tions, large districts of ruins will not be affected, l)ut important 
isolated sites Avill be, and the State governments should then be 
invoked to exercise protective authoritv over them. 

The eighth class, those on private lands, includes many important 
sites. The number of private land grants, in New Mexico espe- 
cially, is very large, and some of them are covered with ini])ortant 
ruins. Many are on railroad selections and some on small holdings 
or homesteads. Some owners of liomesteads and grants realize the 
importance of preserving these ruins for scientihc research and 
exercise due custodianship over them. Others use the stones for 
building material, and timbers, if any, for firewood. 

The above is as comprehensive a presentation of the status of 
archeology in the pueblo region as I am capable of making within 
the limits set for this paper. It is based on many years of personal 
residence and field work in the Southwest, in connection with the 
researches of all other investigators of the pueblo field, the results 
of which I have freely availed myself of. During the past six 
months I have had the opportunity to give considerable attention to 
the phases of the subject dealt A\ith in this paper, for which the 
resources of the (ieneral Land Office, the Office of Indian Affairs, 
the Bureau of Forestry, and the Bureau of Amercian Ethnology 
have been most cordially placed at my disposal. I feel that my con- 
clusions are at least not hastily drawn. 



V. Synopsis or Impoktaxt Districts and Sites. 

In this arrangement I ha\e endeavored (o [)oiu( out only those 
archeological districts and special sites which, by reason of their 
character, situation, state of preservation, or ethnic significance, arc 
particularly worthy of investigation. The list is by no means a 
complete one. Doubtless many are omitted that are as important 
as those named, and it is to be remeuibered that every aboriginal site 
or object is of sufficient importance to warrant investigation. 

In order to indicate, when known, how the various sites are located 
Avith reference to jurisdiction, I have used the following abbrevia- 
tions : 



GENERAL VTEW OF AROllEOl.OCV OF 'I'HR PCKHI.O REGION. 597 

Nat. Ros.. siliiiitcd (Hi ii:iti(iii;il icscrvitt ioii or ii;irk. 

For. Kts.. situ:it('<l on foiost reserve. 

Iiul. Res., situated on Indian reservation. 

Mil. lies., situated on military n-servation. 

Pub. L.. situated <in iiuidic lands. 

With. L., situated on withdrawn lands. 

Pri. L.. situated on private lands. 

The asterisk is iis(h1 to iiulicato silos of siiHiciciit iiiipoilaiicc to 
(Icmaiul pcniiaiieiit j)ivst>r\alioii. 

I. — THE UIO ClU.XNni; nU.MNAfiE. 

1. lu Upper Pecos Valley: 

* Pec-os, lud. lie.s. 
Seyupa. 
Tonc'hun. 

San Antonio. 

2. About the Salt Lakes of the Manzano : 

* Tabira ((Jrau Quivira) Pri. L. 
(Juarra. 

Abo. 
Tajique. 
S. In the Galisteo Basin: 

Yanii)haniba (San Cristobal). 
Ipera (San Lazaro). 
Tasewinse ( Galisteo) . 
llishi (Pueblo Largo). 

4. In the San Pedro P>asin : « 

Tuuiiue. 

Paako or Kukua, Pri. L. 

5. In the Santa Fe Basin : 

Tsinatay (La Bajada). 

Tsiguma (La Cienega). 

Kuaka. 

Kuapoge (Ft. Marey) Mil. Res.a 

6. In the San Udefonso Basin: 

Sacona, Ind. Res. 
Kyainunge, Ind. Res. 

7. In the main valley of the Rio Grande: 

Katishtya (Old San Felipe) lud. Res. 

Perage (Old San Udefonso) Ind. Res. 

Puaray. 

Kuaua. 
S. In the ( 'llama Basin : 

Tsawari. 

Ilouiri. Pri. L. 

Sei)awi. 

llomayo. Pri. I... 
!). The Taos region'' With. L. : 

Numerous sites in the vicinity of Taos and Picurls. 



a Ceded to the city of Santa Fe. 

6 This is partly included in the lands withdrawn tor the i>roposed Taos Forest 
Reserve. 



598 GENERAL VIEW OF ARCHEOLOGY OF THE PUEBLO REGION. 

The majority of the above (1 to 0) are sites occupied within the hist 
four centuries and abandoned at intervals from the time inmiediately 
preceding the Spanish occupation doAvn to 1S38. The years imme- 
diately following 1680 were particularly disastrous to the Rio Grande 
Pueblos. Archeological research at these sites should be fruitful in 
throwing light upon the first influences of the exotic civilization upon 
the indigenous tribes. They are all ruins of considerable magnitude, 
but in many cases reduced to mounds. 

10. * Pajarito Park.i W'hh. L. : 

Shufinne. 

Otowi. 

Puye. (Plato i. fis- L) 

Tsankawi. j 

Cliff (Iwt'lliiiKf^ of Shulinno Mesa. 

Cliff (l\vel!iuj<s of Puye Mesa. 

Cliff (Iwellinss of Clini)adero Canyon. 

Cliff dwellinjis of Sandia Canyon. (Plate i. fig. 2.) 

This is strictly a prehistoric district and archeologicalh'' one of the 
richest in the Pueblo region. The clitf dwellings are of the excavated 
type and exist in vast numbers, almost every southern escarpment 
being honeycombed wnth them. Besides the identified pueblo ruins 
named, several others of almost equal importance and hundreds of 
minor ones are scattered over the district. The permanent reserva- 
tion of this tract will preserve intact a fairly complete exhibit of 
the i^rehistoric civilization of the Rio Grande Valley. This is now 
assured, for it falls within the limits of the proposed Rio Jemez 
Forest Reserve, and will in due time come under the custodianship 
of the Bureau of Forestry if it does not become a national park. The 
only collections that have been made from this district are in the 
museum of the New Mexico Normal University at Las Vegas. 

11. On Kaniou Vigil Grant,6 Pri. L. : 

(Tewa; Tchire, bird; ge, house = house of the bird jieoplr: Spanish, 

Pajarito, a little bird.) 
*Tchirege. (Platen.) 
Cliff dwellings of Pajarito Canyon. 
Navakwi. 
Numerous large and small pueblos of Mesa del Pajarito. 

a I here restrict the name Pajarito Park to the district 10 miles long by 4 
wide that is under withdrawal and consideration for a national park. (H. K. 
72G9, SSth Cong.) As originally jtroposed and withdrawn; it was much more 
extensive, and received its name from what was the central geographical feature 
of the entire district, viz, Pajarito Canyon. This has since been found to 1k^ 
largely on Ramon Vigil Grant, which was almost surrounded by the proposed 
park. As the lines are now drawn, it creates Pajarito Park with the " Pajarito " 
left out. 

?< This is the original I'ajarito Park. The value of tlie ruins is iipiireciatcd 
by the owners and they are under ])roper custodianshi]). 



GENERAL VIEW OF ARCHEOLOGY OF TlIK Pl'KliLo RE(aON. t)\)\) 

]2. Coehiti (listrict." Willi. L. : 

* Tyuoiiyi. 
Pueblo Viojo. 

* La Cuova I'iiitada. 
Ilaatso. 

Kuapa. 

* Stone lions of Potrci'o i\v las Vaoas. 

* ClilT (Iwoliinu's of Kilo dc los Fri.joles. 

Cliir (l\vellinp:s (if Cauail;! dc la Cin-sla Colofada. 
18. In uiipor .Teiiu"/, \ alley.'' With. I>. : 

* Gilisewa and .Mission Clnii'di of San 1 >ieiro. (Plate iii.) 

Lai'fje nnuiher of important luu-liio i-nins in Nnlicy .ind jii adjoininix mesas. 
14. In tlie San .Fos.> Valley : 

San Mateo, Pi'i. L. 

Cuhero. Ind. Kes. 
l."). * In Cehollito Valley and ^lonte/ann.a Mesa. Pub. L. : 

.V lariie number of important jmeblo sites unnamed. (Plate iv.) 
111. In till' Ma.i,^l;ilena region. Pub. L. : 

\ numlier of imi»>rtant pni'blo sites unnamed. 

II. — THE SAN JUAN DRAINAGE. 

1. * In ("liaeo Canyon : 

Pueblo Pintado. Pub. L. 

Weji.ji (Kindoklis). Pnb. L. 

Ilunj^opavi,'" Pri. Ij. (Plate v, fig. 1.) 

Tina Vida.f Pri. L. 

rhettrokettle.'J Pri. L. 

Pueblo Bonito.'i Pri. Iv. 

OMsa Riuconada.'* Pri. I>. 

Pueblo del Arroyo'' (T.-ibakin). Pri. L. 

Kinkletsoi, Pub. L. (Plate vi. fig. 12.) 

Casa Cbi(iuita. Pub. L. 

Pueblo Alto. Pub. L. 

Penaseo lilanco (Talakin). Pri. L. 

Sinkletzin.'' Pri. I>. 

This is iin(iiiesti()iial)ly the finest and l>ost ])rosorvcd fjronp of 
]>nol)l() ruins on American soil. It is a matlei- of oTcat re<2-ivt that 
the (Jeneral Land Office Avas not invoked in time to preserve intact 



" I apidy this name to the district north of Coehiti. whieh embraces the ruins 
of the former habitations of the Coehiti Indians. It was included in the 
original withdrawal for the proposed Pajarito National Park, but is onutted 
from the bill (II. K. 72(>0, oStli Cong.) creating the same. It includes the 
lovely Rito de los Fri.joles of P.andelier and lannmis. It is lortunately included 
within the limits of the ]ii-oiiosed Kio .Jcmez T'orest Reserve. 

6 These ruins are ui»on the lands withdrawn for the proposed Rio .lemez 
Forest Reserve. 

'■These pueblos are on i-ailroad Lands to wbii'li title ha!«t i)ass(>d irrevocably. 

(i These are on the honu'stead of Mr. Ri<-hard Wetherill. This homestead has 
been suspended by the Ueiieral Land Ollice and entry may be canceled. 



(')()() GENERAL VIEW OF ARCHEOLOGY OF THE PUEBLO REGION. 

this remarkable group of prehistoric bniklings with all their auxil- 
iar}^ remains Avheu it could have been done by the withdrawal of the 
entire tract. This is no longer possible, since every alternate section 
IS now patented railroad land. The central groui) of ruins, i. e., 
Pueblo Bonito and its environs, have passed to private ownership 
unless annulled by the (Jenei-al Land Office. This tract of country 
is absolutely worthless for any economic purpose. The fate of the 
great body of ruins situated here is a striking illustration of the 
need for comprehensive legislation on this subject. This loss to 
science and history is solely the result of there being no one whose 
business it is to look after such matters. Through the generosity of 
the Messrs. Hyde, of New York City, a splendid collection obtained by 
the partial excavation of Pueblo Bonito is i)reserved in the American 
Museum of Natural History in New York City. 

2. On tributaries of Cliaco Canyon, I'nb. L. : 

* Kinklizliin. (Plate v, tig. 2.) 

* Kinyaali. 

* Klubinlola. 
Kinabzin. 

These buildings are of the same class and state of preservation as 
those of Chaco Canyon and probably belong Avith them ethnically. 

3. In Canyon de Cbolly and its tributaries, Ind. Kes. : 

Cliff dwellings and pueblos of Canyon de Cbelly. (I'late vii.) 
Cliff dwellings and pueblos of Canyon del Muerto. (IMate vni.) 
Cliff dwellings and pueblos of Monument Canyon. 

This is a remarkable group, consisting of a large number of puel)- 
los and pueblo-like cliff dwellings in an excellent state of preserva- 
tion, and being on an Indian reservation, mider a custodian, their 
protection is assured. A large collection from this region is in the 
museum of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences. 

4. * In tbe Mesa Verde region," Ind. Kes. and Witb. L. : 

Cliff Palace. (Plate ix.) 

Balcony House. 

Cliff" dwellings of :Manc()S Canyon. 

Cliff dwellings of Xavabo Canyon. 

Spruce Tree House. 

Long House. 

Cliff dwellings of Ruin Canyon. 

A large nnnibci- of ruined towers. 

This is the most remarkable group of pueblo-like cliff dwellings in 
existence. They are in a good state of preservation. The protection 
of these ruins is assured. They present the best picture we have of 

a I include in this title not only the cliff dwellings that are situated on tbe 
tract withdrawn for the proposed INIesa Verde National Park, but also those 
on tile southern Ute Indian Kcservation south to and including Mancos Canyon, 
all of which should be included within tlie park limits. 



OENEKAl, VIKW OK AIK ' 1 1 lloT.OCY OF TIIK PrF,l!l.() HFCION. ('»()1 

that phase of Puchh) ciiltiirc wliuli toolv ;u'l\aiil:i<ic lo (he greatest 
possible extent of the |)rote(t ion atloidcd \>\ a dill' ciivironnieiit, 
re_<2fanlless of llic hardships incident lo ^ndi an cxislcnce. Manv of 
these (hvellini>s are almost inaeeessihle. This will Ix' one of the most 
instructive and attractive of all our national [jarks. Unfoi-tiiiiately, 
the collections that ha\(' hecii made from these ruins are badlj' scat- 
tered and not well authenticated. 
f). Ill Ijiis Aiiiniiis N'alle.v : 

* The Aztec ruin." I'ri. L. 
(t. In Aztec Sprintjs A'all(\v : 

Aztec Siirin.us ruin. 
7. In La Plata Valley: 

La Plata ruin. 
S. In tlie main val'.ey of the San .Tnan : 

Solomon's Hnin. Pri. L. 
y. In the vicinity of Hluff, Utah: 

Ruins of McElnu) Canyon. 

Ruins of Hovenweep Canyon. 

Ruins of Montezuma Canyon. 

Ruins of Yellowjacket Canyon. 

Ruins of Cottonwood Can.Min. 

These are very numerous pueblo and clili'-dwelling ruins, mostly 
unnamed sites in an indifferent state of preserv'atioii, but archeolog- 
ically very important. Some interestin<>- collections from these ruins 
are in the American Museum of Natural Tlistory in New York. 

in. — THE LITTLK COLORADO DRAINAGE. 

L On the Tusayan plateau, Ind. Res.: 
(o) In Oraihi wash — 
Kwaitulci. 
Seven-Mile Ruin. 

(b) Middle Mesa groui) — 
Old Mashongnavi. 
Old Shnmo|)avi. 
Payupki. 

Chuknhi. 

(c) East Mesa group — 
Sikyatki. 
Kukuehomo. 
Kisakohi. 
Tukinobi. 

(d) In .Jetty to Valley— 
Awatohi. 
Kokttiinyama. 
Kawaika 
Cliakpahu. 

(c) In Cottonwood wash — 

Bidahuci grou|i. 
(/■) Miscellaneous - 

Tehugkihu (Fire House), northeast of Keams Canyon. 



o Properly cared for by the owner, Mr. Kountz. 



G()2 GENERAL VIEW OV ARCHEOLOGY OF THE PUEBLO REGION. 

?.. Ill llic iiKiiii viiUcy o( lilt' LilUo Coloraclo: 

Ilouiulobl. 

Chevlon. 
H. In the Tuerco Vnllo.v: 

Adiiiiiaiiii. 

Naviilio Springs. 

Kiiiti(>I (.'50 iiiilos nortli nf river), I'ri. L. 
4. In the lu-lrilu'd lorcsl. With. L. : 

Sloiic Ax. 

("aiiyoii r.ultc Kiiiii. 

Milky Wash Kuiii. 
r». Ill (Ihavez Pass: 

'rchiihkwitcala. 
(i. in llio Silver Creek Valley: 

Poui'-niile ruin. 

Piiiedale. 

Shovvlow. 

Linden. 
The above groups of ruins of the Little Colorado Drainage (1 to G) 
are all pueblo sites that have proven to be of great archeological 
interest. Some of them arc known to have been inhabitated during 
the historic period. They have suffered nnich from indiscriminate, 
unscientific excavation and collections therefrom are badly scattered 
and not well authenticated. On the other hand, a great amount of 
scientific work of the highest order has been done in these ruins and 
excellent collections from them are in the United vStates National 
Museum, (he Field Columbian Museum, Chicago, and Peabody 
Museum, (^ambridge. 
7. On (lie Ziifii Region, liid. lies.: 

* llawikuii." 

* Kiiikiine." 

* ilaiona.'t 

* Malsaki." 
Piiiaua. 
Kt'tehipauaii. 

* t'liyanaue.« 

* Areheotek()i)a, Pnli. L. 

El Morro or Inscriplion Kock. Willi. L. 

Theses are historically (he mos( impoi'(aii( ruins in (lie Uni(e(l 
States, embracing (he remains ol" (he I'aiiious " sexcn cides of Cibola " 
and many other i)ueblo si(es of e(|iial magnidide. Many are in a fair 
state of ])reservation, some i-educed (o mounds; bM( i( will be genei'ally 
agreed, I believe, (lia( all remains of (his liis(oric group, wli.-Uevci- 
may be their condition, merit preserxation. lieing niuler ciislodian- 
shij), they should siiU'ei- but little from \andalisni. L;irge collect ions 
from these ruins are in the Peabody Museum, Cambridge. I lie results 
t)f excavat ions by (he Ileiiienway expedition. 



n Idcnlilit'd hy iSandcHcr .'iiid ("tisliiiig ;is bcloiigiiig to Uic "seven eities of 
("ihol.-l." 



Smithsonian Report, 1 904.— Hewett. 



Plate X. 









a^Li-6*^ ^ 




Fig. 1.— Montezuma Castle, Beaver Creek, Arizona. 




^i:. 



-*•**», 



Fig. 2.— Casa Grande, Gila Valley, Arizona. 




o 



o 



GENERAT. VIEW OF ARCIIEOI.OC.Y OF TIIK TM'Fr.I-O l{K(i|()\. (tl).S 

S. * 111 WmIiiuI Cniiynii, For. Kes. 

A line ^'r(Hi|» of clicr (IwcUiiiRS. 
;>. Oil ("avc Dwcllci's Moiiiitniu. Fur. Res.: 

All t>.\(t-iisiv(' :iii(l intrn'stiiiy f^roiip of cnvc dwclliii^r.s. 
10. The BliU-k Falls Kofiioii. For. Hes. 

Several iiiiiiortaiit j^'miips ul" imicIiIo iiiins in a .i,'u(m1 state of preservatioii ; 
not named. 

IV. THE fill. A I)UAINA(!K. 

1. In the Verde Valley : 

(a) In the main valley. With. L.— 

(ireat numlier of excavated cliff dwelliiifis. 
(/() * The Red Kocks district— 

lldiianki. 

I'alatki. 

Many otiier unnamed puehlo and cliff-dwelling sites. 
(c) * Ri'aver Creek — 

Montezuma Castle. With. L. (I'late .\. lit;. 1.) 

Montezuma Well. For. Res. 

2. In the Salt River Valley: 

{(i) In the Tonto I'.asin, With. li. — 

Numerous puehlos and cliff-dwelling sites. 
{})) On WTiite Mountain Creek, Iiid. Res. — 

Xnmerous puehlo and cliff-dwelling sites. 

3. In the main valley of the (!ila: 

* Casa (Jrande, Nat. Res. (Plate x, fig. 2.) 
Pueblo Viejo. 
Numerous unnamed sites. 

These piiel)los have been rapidly destroyed by the advance of 
agriculture, most of them without scientific investigation. Im])or- 
tant explorations were made by the Hemenway expedition among 
the lower Gila ruins, the collections from Avhich are in the Peabody 
Museum, Cambridge. 

4. * C)n the ui)per tributaries of the (Jila, For. Res.: 

(d) On the Blue- 
Numerous cliff-dwelling and pueblo sites. 

(h) On the San Francisco — 

Numerous cliff-dwelling and pueblo sites. 

(c) On the Tularosa— 

Numerous cliff-dwelling and pueblo sites. 

{(I) On the west fork of the Gila- 
Gila Hot Springs cliff dwellings. (Rlate xi.) 

The ruins of the upper (Jila and its tributaries are among the 
most important and least known in all the pueblo region. Many are 
in an excellent state of preservation. But little in the way of scien- 
tific study has been done among them and no extensive collections 
have yet" been made. Fortunately, ctticicnt custodianship has been 
extended over them in Inne to secure them while slill in a good state 

of preservation. 

{€) On the San Pedro- 
Numerous jnielilo ruins. 



004 GENERAL VIEW OF ARCHEOLOGY OF THE PUEBLO REGION. 

V. — MISCELLANEOUS. 

1. Ill the Minibres Valley. 

This is, strictly speaking, an inland drainage, tributary to neither 
the Rio Orande nor the (iila, between which it lies, and extending 
down into the State of Chihuahua. Mexico. In this valley is a large 
number of interesting pueblo sites. 
'2. In Lost Canyon. Colorado. 

In this and other tributaries of the Dolores drainage are numerous 
clitf dwellings and towers, remarkable as being the one point where 
pueblo culture of any importance extends north of the San Juan- 
Grand watershed. 

3. In the Virgin Valley. Utah. 

A locality of numerous pueblo ruins, remarkable as being the only 
ones of much note west of the Colorado River. 

4. On the military reservations of Fort Bayard, Fort Wingate. Fort Lowell. 

Fort Apache. Camp Verde, and Fort Defiance are ruins of considerable 
importance, including cliff dwellings, i)ueblos. towers, and cemeteries not 
specifically pointed out in the drainage areas in which they occur. 

VI. Conclusion. 

It IS manifestly time for decisive action on the question of Ameri- 
can antiqtiities. Congress should at once enact comprehensive leg- 
islation on this subject. It is the duty of those interested in Ameri- 
can archeology to prepare the necessary information and present it 
to the proper authorities in such manner that the scope of legislation 
needed will be self-evident. I offer the following suggestions, which 
I believe, in the light of our present information, to be in accord with 
the views of a large jnajority of the archeologists dealing with 
American, subjects and acquainted with the American field : 

1. That the preservation of antiquities on all lands owned or con- 
trolled by the Government of the United States should be provided 
for by law. 

2. That custodianship of antiquities should be left where it is, viz, 
in the departments having jurisdiction over the lands on which an- 
tiquities are situated, and that the protection of said antiquities l)y 
said departments should be made obligatory. 

3. Expert authority should exist for the periodical inspection of 
ruins, report on the same, and reconunendation of pivservative meas- 
ures to the departiuents having custodianship. 

4. The privilege of excavation should be restricted to institutions, 
domestic or foreign, that can conduct the same in a scientific manner 
and make report of results, and that will place all collections secui-ed 
in permanent public museums. 

5. There should be expei-t insix'ction of excavations, to see that tin' 



GENERAL VIEW OF ARCHEOLOGY OF THE PUEBLO REGION. ()05 

sainc :!iv couduclcd according to tlic iv<j:uliUi()ns prescribed, and to 
see dial collections are disposed of as ])i-()vide(l for l)v law and not 
for connnercial pur})oses,. 

G. Adecpiate penalties for violation of the law should be prescribed 
In the meantime it is unnecessary to await the movement of the 
great machinerv of Congress when so nuich power already exists in 
Executive Departments and so much loss goes on that future Con- 
gressional action can never repair, llesults can be steadily accom- 
l)lished. Departments invite authentic information and reconmien- 
dations. AVhen furnished with evidence they act i)i-omptly and 
etl'ectively. All who are interested in the preservation of American 
antiquities — and this is a rapidly growing number — should encour- 
age and uphold the^e ell'orts in every possible way. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904.— Hrdlicka 



Plate 




Modern Female Skull (German Austrian) from the Tyro- 
lean Alps, with Painted Inscription and Decoration. 



Male Skull, with Black Designs on the Face, from Santa 
Cruz Island, California. 



THE PAINTING OF HUMAN BONES AMONG THE 

INDIANS.* 



By Alks IIrdtjcka. 



Painting- of linman bones is one of the ethnic phenomena of a 
rehitivel}^ high ditferentiation found unaccountably in various, widely 
separated parts of the world; and the custom has probably existed 
in prehistoric as well as historic times. Painted skulls or bones 
have been found in the York Islands (Finsch), in Polynesia, and 
among the Papuans, in Australia (AV. Krause), New Zealand (Thi- 
lenius, Martin), and Andaman Islands. A skull of a child (No. 
164763, U. S. National Museum) from the Andaman Islands shows 
on the vault, bilaterally, a geometrical design, including a line 
of connected diamond-shaped figures, in red paint; and on the vault 
of an adult female skull (No. 164765, U. S. National Museum), 
from the same locality, are four lines, running from before backward, 
of similar but smaller diamond-shaped ligures painted in white. 
Bones covered more or less by red pigment — in many instances it 
has not been definitely settled Avhether intentionally or accidentally — 
are very conunon in the older kourgans over large regions in Cau- 
casus and southern Russia (Vasselovski, Antonovitch, Zaborovski, 
Spizyn, and others), in Moravia (Makovsky), Bohemia (Matiegka), 
Switzerland (JNIartin), Italy (Pigorini), France (d'Acy, Piette, 
etc.), and Germany (Krause). A curious habit of placing inscrip- 
tions of name, date of birth and date of death of the person upon the 
skull, and surrounding this with a hand-painted design, has existed 
until recent years in tlie Tyrolean Alps. The U. S. National Mu- 
seum possesses three examples of such skulls (from Professor Koll- 
man, in Basel), one of which is here illustrated (fig. 1, pi. i), and I 
have seen a number of others in Professor Zuckerkandl's collection in 
Vienna. 

On the American continent bone painting has been reported by 
some of the old chroniclers, as Avell as some modern students. I 

o Modified, with some additions, from the author's A Painted Slceleton from 
Northern Mexico, with Notes on Bone Painting among the American Aborigi- 
nes, printed in American Anthropologist, n, s., vol. 3, Sept-Dec, 1901, pp. 
701-71^5. 

607 



608 THE PAINTING OF HUMAN BONES AMONG THE INDIANS. 

shall mention both later on. It existed, in more or less separated 
localities, in South America, as well as in North America and in 
JSIexico. 

The subject has been repeatedly br()ii,i2:ht to my attention in exam- 
ining Indian bones in our vai-ious museums, and is so closely and in 
several ways associated with various modes of accidental bone 
staining that the two must, to a certain extent, be treated together. 

All pigmentation of hmnan bones, including painting, is divisible 
into five varieties. 

The first variety, which is quite connnon, includes the skeletons 
that have been more or less stained or infiltrated accidentally by the 
coloring matter of the earth in which they have lain. As pronounced 
examples of this variety of staining T may mention the Ixmes of a part 
of Mr. Bandelier's collection fi-om Bolivia (A. M. N. II.), which are 
thoroughly stained and infiltrated by led clay. The accidental stain- 
ing is mostly reddish or yellowish, but it may be dark, as was observed 
by Professor Putnam in certain burial places in Tennessee, and as 
can also be seen in a number of Florida skulls in the American Mu- 
seum, and in the Costa Eica crania recovered from a deposit of vol- 
canic ashes, now in the Carnegie Museum. Usually in these cases all 
the bones of the body are colored, and with little difference in inten- 
sity. The cavities of the skull show the same or nearly the same 
coloring as the parts more exposed. 

The second variety of stained bones consists generally of skulls 
which had been stained green by salts of copper. These salts resulted 
mostly from the decomposition of copper (or copper alloy) ornaments 
or implements buried with the bodies. The staining in these cases, 
as a rule, is but partial; the coloring is greenish and is deepest at the 
nearest points of contact with the decomposed articles. The copper 
salts discolor the skull even through the skin. There is in the 
National Museum a comparatively fresh female skidl from Oregon 
^No. 150011), in Avhich the borders of both orbits and some of the 
neighboring parts, though still covered by their skin, are green. On 
the closed eyelids of each eye are seen two circular impressions, appar- 
ently made by some coins pressed into that position; the copper salts 
resulting from the decomposition of thes(> coins i)enetrated through 
the opening of the eyelids as well as through the skin and discolored 
the bone beneath. There is another specimen of allied nature in the 
collection from Utah. Green-stained sknlls have been found in 
numerous localities on both i)arts of the continent, especially along 
the northwest coast. The Wasco skull here pictured shows a char- 
acteristic coloration of this nature (fig. 1, ])l. n). 

In the third and very freciuent and widely distributed variety of 
stained bones, there is more or less staining of the skeleton by pig- 
ments which were buried with the body. In most cases known to me, 



THE PAINTING OF HUMAN HONES AMONG THE INDIANS. 609 

or of which I have fouiul nientiou in literalin'c, the c-oh)i'ali()ii was 
red, and in most instaiuvs duv (o red ocher. In a lew cases, probably 
more recent burials, the i)iii'nK'nl was xerniilion. 

The fourth class of stained bones is much more restricted than 
any of the })recedinii': it consists mainly of skidls whicli had been 
painted by hand. In all but two cases known (o me on this con- 
tinent the paint was red, and was applied sometimes over the facial 
[)arts of the skull only, at other times over the whole cranium, and 
in a few instances also over other bones of the skeleton. I shall 
cite examples of this class from Unitetl States, Canada, and other 
regions. 

The fifth and final variety of bone staining- consists of skulls on 
which desii2:ns have been made in colors. Such s|KH'imens thus far 
found are few and they are probably all, or nearly all, recent. 

A variety of red pigmentation of human bones l)y the products of 
pigment producing bacteria has been suggested by Krause; I have 
as yet come across no instance where such agency Avould appear prob- 
able. Blackening of bones is occasionally witnessed in maceration. 

In a number of instances it is difficult, if not impossible, to decide 
whether the given bones have been stained accidentally by the pig- 
ment buried with the body, or whether they have been intentionally 
painted. It may be assumed, however, as a general rule, that Avhere 
the coloration is symmetric, rather uniform in extent, and restricted 
to the external surface, not extending into the fossa', ventral cavity, 
or even the alvoelar spaces of a skull, we have to deal Avith inten- 
tional painting of the specimen. In accidental staining the pigment 
is often found mixed with the eart|i about the bones, it covers the 
bones less regularly, and penetrates more or less into d\\ the larger 
spaces. It is, of course, also possible that the paint applied to the 
bones by hand after their burial spreads somewdiat by natural means 
lo other parts, as well as to the soil, but in such instances the second- 
ary coloration of the bone is liable to be restricted besides irregular, 
and the staining of the soil is very limited. 

It is principally the last three varieties of pigmented Ix^nes which 
are, in this country each in a distinctive way, of ethnological interest, 
for they represent so many different, though probably related, cus- 
toms of the American aborigines. 

The geographical distribution of such stained or painted bones on 
this continent appears to be very wide, but so far is quite irregular. 
With the increase of material, some of the existing lacuna' will 
undoubtedly be filled, while in other cases there Avill be traced, accord- 
ing to indications, allied customs. On the whole it seems that one or 
another use of red pigment, particularly ocher, has been quite general 
in the funerary' rites of the American Indians. 
&M 1004 39 



610 THE PAINTING OF HUMAN BONES AMONG THE INDIANS, 

The deposit of pigments, particularh' of ocher, in the shape of 
])aint. with the bodies of warriors, and especially of chiefs, was 
very prevalent. Red paint was one of the Indian's necessities, and, 
Avith some of his other possessions, Avas buried with him as a part 
of his equipment for the future world or his journey thither, 
Lafitau (vol. ii. 8, p, 41;^), in referring to the articles generally 
interred Avith the body of an Indian, mentions, among other things, 
''a quantity of oil and some color Avith which to paint himself." 
Loskiel (vol. ii, p. 1"20) tells us that the Indians formerly " used 
to put a tobacco pouch, knife, tinder box. tobacco and pipe. boAv and 
arroAvs (or a gun, poAvder, and shot), skins and cloth for clothes, 
paint, a small bag of Indian corn or dried bilberries, sometimes the 
kettle, hatchet, alid other furniture of the deceased into the graA'e, 
supposing that the departed spirits Avould haA^e the same Avants and 
occupations in the land of souls as they had in this Avorld. But this 
custom," Loskiel says, " is noAV (in ITD-i) almost entirely abolished in 
the countrA^ of the DehiAvares and Iroquois.'" 

Among the Hurons, according to Sagard (Ilistoire du Canada, 
Paris, 1G3C, vol. iii, p. 647), some paint Avas buried with the Avomen, 
in order that in the other Avorld they had enough to paint their robes 
Avith. Quantities of red ocher have been found in ancient Maine 
graA'es by Mr. C. C. Willoughby, of the Peabody ^fuseum. Rev. J, 
M, Spainhour, in 1871, found in a mound on St. Johns River, North 
Carolina, three skeletons, and Avith each a quantity of red pigment 
(YarroAv, p. 27,) According to Elliott (a'oI, i, 60) and Young (p. 
142), " the first Europeans Avho came to Cape Cod found there in an 
Indian grave nice matting, a bow,' a decorated and painted board, and 
tAvo bundles of red poAvder, in Avhich lay the bones of the buried.'' 

Mr, Moorehead found red ocher, and in a fcAv instances also yelloAv 
and Avhite mineral paints, heaj^ed, as he expresses it, on or near the 
hands or other parts of the body, in earth mounds in several parts 
of Ohio. LeAvis and Clark (vol. j, p. 2li9) mention having found 
some red and l)hie paint Avith the cadaver, of an Assiniboin female. 
Mr. II. I. Smith, of the American Musemn of Natui-al History, 
unearthed a skeleton at Saginaw, Mich., Avhich Avas covered Avith red 
pigment, the surrounding soil being of a totally different character. 
Dr. J. Walter FeAvkes found vessels containing '' yellow ocher, ses- 
(|uioxide of iron, green copper carbonate, and micaceous hematite '' 
in Avhat Avas apparently the burial of a priest, at AAvatobi, a ruin of 
a former pueblo the base of Avhat Avas formerly the first mesa of the 
Ilopi Indians, in northern Arizona, and he found similar pigments 
in graves at Sikyatki, another ruin in the same region; and examples 
of a similar nature could be nndtiplicd. 

Judging from the references to Indian mortuary customs made by 
various authors, there Avere apparently a large number of instances 



THK PAINTINd OF HUMAN HDNKS AMONC THE INDIANS. 611 

ill which, in :i(l(liii(iii to. or [)ossil)ly wilhoiit, the (h'posit ol' soiiic j)i^- 
iiient with thf (U'ccasod, the body, or at least the face, was painted. 
If the pigment used was mineral in character, as was ahnost invari- 
ably the case, (he pi'obability of the bones becoming more or less 
stained by it after the ilesh had decayed was very strong. The custom 
of painting the body is especially well described by Lafitau. Speak- 
ing of the Indians of New France, he says that among them axevy 
" cabane '^ had special individuals \\ ho took care of the deceased. 
Those who are thus employed "' wash the body, oil it, and paint its 
face and head. * * * Sometimes the man while yet living an- 
nounces his death, arranges a feast, and lets himself be Avashed, oiUnl, 
and painted, and bundled up still alive into the position which he is 
to have in the grave.'' 

Loskiel gives similar information about the Indians of the Eastern 
States and Canada : '" Immediately after the death the corpse is 
dressed in a new suit, with the face and shirt painted red, and laid 
upon a mat or skin in the middle of the hut or cottage." Charlevoix 
(vol. VI, p. 107) says that among the Canadian Indians "the dead 
man is j^ainted, enveloped in his best robe, and, with his weapon be- 
side him, is exposed at the door of his cabin in the posture which he 
is to preserve in the grave." Sagard (vol. iii, p. G-iD), speaking also 
of more than one northeastern tribe and without mentioning any 
separately, says that " not only are the savages in the habit of paint- 
ing their faces black when any of their relatives dies, but they paint 
also the face of the cadaver." 

The Iroquois, according to La Potherie (vol. iii, p. 9 et seq.), 
"visit from time to time the burial place, paint the half-rotten bodies, 
change their clothing, and rearrange them in the fossa." Morgan 
also mentions the face ])ainting of the dead Iroquois. 

All the nations of the upper Missouri, according to Pcrrin du Lac, 
painted the bodies of their dead warriors with red ocher. These 
tribes comprised the Ricaras, Mandans, (rrosventres, Chugayennes. 
Sioux, Cayoroas, Tocaninambiches, Tokionakos, Pitapahatos, Pa- 
daws, Halisanes, Assiniboins, and Crows. The custom w^as witnessed 
among the Crows as late as 1870 by Col. P. W. Xorris, superintendent 
of the Yellowstone Park (cited b}' Yarrow), antl quite as late among 
the Dakotas by Surg. L. S. Turner. IT. S. Army (also cited by Yar- 
I'ow). "The work among the Dakotas," says Doctor Turner, "be- 
gins as soon as life is extinct. The face, neck, and hands are thick 
painted with vermilion or a s]iecies of red earth found in various 
portions of the Territory." 

The Creeks practiced a similar custom," and there are indications 
of the former existence of a similai' habit among the Omahas. 

Professor Boas and Mr. Swanton inform me that man}^ of the 

« Schook-raft. Vol. V. p. 270. 



612 THE PAINTING OF HUMAN BONES AMONG THE INDIANS. 

tribes of the North and Northwest paint the faces of their dead. The 
nse of other colors than red were observed, but the latter in-eilonii- 
nates. 

As to the Southwest and Mexico information on this subject is 
very meager, but evidence points to similar practices. 

Bone painting proper is comparatively rare, or at least nnich less 
common than the custom of paint interment and of the painting of 
various parts of the corpse. We meet with instances of bone paint- 
ing iH-oper in Ohio, Florida, and South Carolina, in the East; in 
California, and possibly in British Columbia, in the West and North- 
west ; and in Mexico, and a few parts of Central and South America. 

In Ohio painted bones Avere found by Prof. F. W. Putnam (Tur- 
ner group mounds) and by Mr. W. K. Moorehead. The latter 
writes " me on the subject as follows : 

Painted bones have been found in a mound at Omega. Koss County, Ohio ; in 
Jackson County mound. Ohio, and in two mounds within the corporate limits 
of Chillicothe. One of the latter was discovered by Mr. Clarence Loveberry. 
assistant curator of the above [Ohio Archeological and Historical] society. 
The others were found by myself. Near Green Camp, Marion County, Ohio, in 
a stone grave (> feet below the surface, Mr. Loveberry discovered a skeleton 
entirely painted. 

All of these were coated with red jtigment or ocher, including in nearly every 
ease all of the larger bones. There are other instances in which just the hands, 
or the feet, or perhaps the skull were coated. These are usually from mounds, 
either large or small. Bones on which the pigment was simply heaped were 
clearly distinguished by the surrounding soil being also stained. 

I have never observed instances in which skeletons were coated with yellow 
or black paints. (We have found yellow and white mineral paints ne.ir the 
hands of skeletons several times.) 

We have never found painted bones in stone mounds. They are invariable 
in earth mounds or stone graves. 

In South Carolina the custom is thus described by Lawson (pp. 
21, 22) : 

As soon as the party is dead they lay the corpse upon a piece of bark in the 
sun, seasoning or embalming it witli a small root beaten to pow'der, w'hich looks 
as red as vermilion , ^ the same is mixed with bear's oil to beautify the hair and 
preserve their heads from being lousy, it growing plentifully in these parts of 
America. After the carcass has laid a day or two in the sun they remove and 
lay it ui)ou crotches cut on purpose for the support thereof from the earth; 
then they anoint it all ofrv with the forementioned ingredients of the powder 
of this root and bear's oil. NX'hen it is so done they cover it very exactly over 
with bark of the pine or cypress tree, to prevent any rain to fall upon it, sweep- 
ing the ground very clean all about it. 

As soon as the flesh grows mellow and will cleave from the bone they get it 
off and burn it, making all the bones vei-y clean; then anoint them witli the 
ingredients aforesaid, wrapping up the skull (very carefully) in a cloth artifi- 
cially woven with possum's hair. * * * ^'iig bones they carefully preserve 

a Letter dated September 21, 1897. 
b Sanguinaria':' 



' Smithsonian Report, 1904.— HrdlicUa. 



Plate II. 





Wasco Skull, Discolored by Decomposition of Brass 
OR Copper Object Buried with the Body. 



Wasco Skull, with Colored Cross over Frontal Bone. 



THE I'ATNTINC OV IfT^MAN BONES AMONC TlIK rNDTANS. 6l8 

in a wooden 1k)X. every year oilin.i; and cleansinji Uieni; by tbese means pro- 
serve them foi' many a;j:es, so thai yon may see an Indian in possession of the 
bones of his t^randlathi'r, or some of his rehitions of a lon;,'er antiquity. 

In Florida hoiu' i):iintin<2: sotMiis to Iiavo hocn practiced extensively 
and from an early period. The cusloin is iiiciitioned in this part of 
(ho country hy (hircilasso do la V('<>a and by Ilorrera. Romans (p. 
88) doscrilx's il amoii.ii' the Choctaw as follows: 

The day [of the burial] being come, the friends and relations assomblo near 
the stage, a tire is made, and the respectable operator, after the body is taken 
down I from the stage on which it has lain for two to f(mr months], with his 
nails tears the remaining flesh off the bones and throws it with the entrails 
into the fire, where it is consumed; ilicn he scrapes the bones and burns the 
scrapings likewise. The head being jtainted red with vernulion, is, with the 
rest of the bones, put into a neatly made chest (which for a chief is also made 
red) and deposited in the loft of a hut built for that ])urpose, and called " l)one 
house." Each town has one of these. After remaining hero one year, or there- 
abouts, if he be a man of any note, they take the chest down, and in an assembly 
of relations and friends they weep once more over him, refresh the color of the 
head, i)aint the box, and then deposit liim to lasting oblivion. 

An enemy and one who conunits suicide is buried under the earth, as one to 
be directly forgotten and unworthy of the above ceremonial obsequies and 
mourning. 

The late Andrew E. Douglass found what was po-ssibly inten- 
tionally })ainted bones near St. Augustine, Fla." 

In certain parts of California the custom of bone painting seems 
to have been common. 

Dr. H. F. ten Kate discovered several painted skeletons in Lower 
California (a cave on P^spiritu Santo Island) and M. Diguet found 
others in the valley of Las Calaveritas. All the specimens from 
this ijart of the coimtry were painted red. Those discovered by 
ten Kate were colored with ocher, while Diguet's specimens were 
decorated Avith a paint obtained from volcanic ashes. M. Diguet 
(p. 43) thought the localization of the burials in which painted 
l)()nes are found was restricted to "'the islands of Espiritu Santo 
and Cerralbo and a number of localities on the peninsula reaching 
in a straight line from the Gulf of California to the Pacific Ocean."' 
The collections in the National Museum include one male adult 
h:keleton (No. 148213, collected by E. Palmer), from the Espiritu 
Santo Island, Lower California, })arts of which, especially the 
femora, show what appears to be intentional red j^ainting. It is 
probable that from parts of this skeleton the paint, Avhich looks 
like ocher, has been washed off. There is another male adult skele- 
ton (No. C1398, collected bj^ L. Belding). and a separate lower jaw, 

« Sanchez Mound, situated about S miles north of St. Augustine. Over 20 
bodies found. " Each cluster of bones was surmounted by the skull, and the 
whole mass encrusted with red paint, which discolored the sand an inch around 
them." (Proceedings Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci., 1882, XXXI, p. 587.) 



C)14 THE PAINTING OF HUMAN BONES AMONG THE INDIANS. 

from lu'ur La Paz, Lower California, overy part of which shows 
intentional red painting, probably in ocher. The sknll is here repro- 
dnced as a type of specimens of this nature (pi. iii.) In a few 
patches on different jDarts of the skeleton the paint is nearly rubbed 
or washed off. 

Professor Boas informs me that some red skeletons have been 
excavated near Thompson Kiver in British Columbia, but it is not 
certain whether these bones were accidentally stained or intentionally 
painted. In the collection of the American Museum of Natural 
History is a skull (No. OO-KiO-l:) of a Clayoquot warrior from the 
Avest coast of Vancouver Island that is ])ainted outwardly a very 
dark brown. There are other skulls from the Northwest in the 
collection of the American Museum that show red stains (particularly 
No. 99-3047, Copalis, west coast of AA'ashin<rton : Smith), but in these 
intentional painting; is doubtful. 

In ^Mexico I have never found any color stain on the bones in the 
territory of the Tarahumares; but a skeltHon j^ainted red with some 
vegetable dye and with traces of yellow, describt^l l)V me bef'^re," was 
obtained by C. Lundioltz just south of this reg'ion. 

Several of the Tarasco crania from ^Nlichoacan (No. 99-175, for 
example) in the American Museum collection show red stains, but 
these may be accidental. 

Finally, the American Museum collection includes seA'eral skulls 
and some bones of ancient Zapotecs and ]Mixtecs, collected by ISIr. 
Saville in Oaxaca. and some of these show plain and indubitalile 
signs of intentional })ainting with some inorganic red i)igment, 
apparently ocher. 

As to Central America and S(»uth Amei-ica. onv of the few refer- 
ences to the custom which 1 iiave noted concerns the Caribs, who 
according to Gumilla ( Brinton's Myths of the New AVorld. p. 225), 
about a year after death cleaned the bones of their dead, bleached 
them, painted them, and wrapped them in odorous balsams; they 
were then placed in a wicker basket which was kej)t suspended from 
the door of the dwelling. " ^A'hen the (juantity of these heirlooms 
became burdensome they Avere removed to some inaccessible cavern 
and stored away Avith reverential care."' 

The second instance ])ertains to the Bororos, one of the Amazon 
tribes, Avho, according to Ehrenreich. unearth the body about tAvo 
Aveeks after death, clean the bones, paint them red, and additionally 
decoi-ate the skull with red feathers. Von den Steinen. A\ho Avit- 
nessed the procedure among the Brazilian Indians Avith Ehrenreich, 
describes it thus:'' 'The observance lasts a Avhole day. The remains 

« Amer. Anthropologist, n. s.. vol. 3. Sept.-Dec, 1901. p. 701 et seq. 
''('orresp. Bl. <1. d. (Jesellscb. f. Aiitlir., Ktliiiol.. Urfiescli., Dec, 190.",, j). lit) 
(Arch. f. Antlirop., ii. f. I, 4, 1904). 



'PIIK PAlNTlN(i OK HITMAN 1U)NF-S AM()N(! TlfK INDIANS. AIT) 

iiiv imcnillu'd ('io;ht to fourlocn days after l)in-ial. The hones are 
ihorouiilily cU^aiuMl." '' Tlioy Aveiv l)rou^h( and. all [)ai'ts of the 
skelelon were, before our eyes, ])ainted red. They began with the 
skull. The whole was appai-eutly a uiode of decoration." 'The 
painted skull was additionally pasted over with red feathers. All 
the l)one>. >kull included, wcw placed in a baskt't, which served 
for the final interment and which also received a coat of red, being 
hi addition well covered with red feathers. The red pigment was 
a veactable substance obtained from a cei'tain seed." 

I have thu^ fai" found no historical evidence of bone painting 
in I*eru. TIkm-c is no exampl(> of it among the over i2()0 Peru.vian 
skulls in the National Museum. Among more than 500 ancient 
Peru\ ian craiiia of the Bandelier collection in the American Museum 
there is but one that shows distinct red stains, bnt these seem to be 
more accidental than otherwise. I^nt in the more recent Gaffron 
collection in that nniscMun there is a male adult sknll, from the neigh- 
!)orho()d (d' Cu/.co (No. '.)i)-;5()82) , which shows ovei- large i)ortions of 
its surface a lii'm pink incrustation, in all probability the remnant of 
intentionally apj)lied paint. Acc(n-ding to Vj. Kranse there is in the 
Keifs-Stiibel collection of crania from Ancon. Peru, one of which the 
face is covered with '" zinnol)er." " 

The i)ainting of designs on human skulls on this continent requires 
but few words. I have seen orily live specimens of this sort and 
found no mention of others. Four of the crania, one from Cali- 
fornia, two A\'asco from the Columbia Iviver, and one from the Santa 
Cruz Island, (^difornia, are in the National Museum, and one found 
l)y Mr. II. I. Smith at Tytton. I'nitish Columbia, is in the American 
Museum of Natural History. The design on all but the Santa Cruz 
Island s])ecimen consists of red, or in one of the AVasco skulls red 
and blue, cross made in very nnich the same manner (see fig. 2, 
pi. Ji). It is in all probability a i-ecent work of some of the Chris- 
tianized Indians. The Santa Cruz Island skull shows a partly 
faded, apparently ancient design, in black, above and under the orbits 
and on the maxilhe (see fig. '2, \)\. \). A human skull, the vault 
of which has been cut off, while the renuiinder was painted Avith 
brown sti'eaks and fitted into a stringed nuisical instrument, is pre- 
served in the Metropolitan INIuseum of Art, Xew York, and was 
supposed to l)e of south American origin, but it came in all proba- 
bility from Africa. 

TIIK SKiNlFTCANCi: OF BONK I'AINTIN*; AMONO INDIANS. 

Bone painting among the American aborigines is most i)robably 
a development of the custom of painting the corpse, just as the 
latter is an extension of the custom of painting the living. Paint, 



"Ololms. in Dec. 1901. j). .'^C.l : Verliandl. Berl. .\ntliv. Oes.. :«). 28" 



010 THE PAINTING OF HUMAN BONES AMONG THE INDIANS. 

particularly rod paint, was, and to some extent still is, among 
many American Indians, a part of the warrior's j^reparation for 
battle, and it Avas a mark of fitness, elevation, bravery, honor; and 
some of the tribes honored their distinguished dead, or even all 
their dead, Avith the same paint, applied in more or less the same 
manner in Avhich it was used by the living. The bones of at least 
the naturally deceased friends were generally regarded with rev- 
erence. 

According to Brinton (op. cit., p. -257) the opinion underlying 
all customs connected with the preservation of l)ones among various 
American people was " that a part of the soul, or one of the soids, 
dwelt in the bones; that these were the seeds which, planted in the 
earth, or preserved unbroken in safe places would in time put on 
once again a garb of flesh and germinate into living human beings. 
Language in some localities seems to strengthen this theory. The 
Iroquois v.ord for bone is ' cshcn^^ for soul, ' nfishou^ literally that 
which is within the bone. (Rruyas, Ead. Verborum Iroqufforum.) 
Tn an Athapascan dialect bone is ' yani,' soul, ' i-yune,' (Busch- 
mann, Athap, Sprachstamm, pp. 182, ISS.)" 

Yet thei-e may have been instances in which the flesh or the bones 
of the dead were i)artly or wholly painted for other reasons. It is 
probable that in some instances the paint was considered a necessary 
or advantageous or proper equipment for the journey to the future 
Avorld. Lafitau (vol. ii, 8, ]). 888) says that the Indians ''applied 
the paint to the head and face in order that the hoi-rors of death 
should not be seem." According to Boas, among the Chinook, who 
bur}' their dead mostly in canoes raised above the ground, after a 
time ''the burial place is made good with red paint.'" which implies 
that in this tribe such paint is connected with some superstition. 
Finally, according to Bandelier, among the JNIuysca in Bogota, New 
(iranada, bodies jjainted with red ocher were a sign of deep mourn- 
ing. Judging fi'oni the general want among Indians of rational 
notions regarding the natural i)rocesses in the living or dead, it seems 
very improljable (though I formerly was inclined to think otherwise) 
that llic paint was in any instance a])])lied simjily as a jn-eservative. 

IJKFKKKXCKS. 

AxToxovTTni. Transactions of the Arclioolo.txi'':il Coiitrrcss of Vihia. 1Sn:i; 

rcf. ill I/Anthr(i))olojJCie, Paris. 1804, p. 7.'>. 
iJAiNDii.iKi;, A. l\ <;il(le(l Man, New York, ]S!«. p. H. 
liAUTKAM, A\'m. Travcis thronsli North and South (':ii-oliii:i. Loiulon, 17!t-. i». 

BiET. Voyage <1»' l:i 'I'cri'c JO(iiiino\i;il('. ni. clini). 14. 

P.KINTON, D. G. Myths of the New World, ji. I'.'.T. 

Cati.in, Geo. Manners, Customs, clc, of North Aiiifi'icnii Indians, 1884, n, 

1). n. 
CiiAKi.EVorx, P. F. X. .loiiriiiil d")!!! Voynt^c etc, vi. )). Iti7. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904.— HrdlicUa. 



Plate III. 




Male Skull, Painted Red, from La Paz, Lower California. 



THE PATNTINCJ OF HUMAN BONKS AM()N(i TIIK INDFANS. 017 

Correspond. I?1. <1. dcutscli. (Icscllscli. f. Aiitlii-oii., I^tliiiol., ri-^'escli., Nov., 
10(1,''., 1".; IHh-.. 1!M);{, IT.VITf) ( Arcli. f. Arillirop.. X. !•'.. i. 4, liHiI) : Sli('.l;i, 
'riiilcnius, Klantsch. Martin. Ad.u hi. von den Slciiini. Kaiikc 
DiGUET, Lko.\. Kapport sur uiu' .Mission Sciciitiiiciui' dans la P>assi'-( "alitoriiic, 

Noiiv. Arcli. d. .Missions Scientificiuos, Paris, ix, ])p. 41-44. 
DouGi.AS.s. A. K. Tlionias's Catalosjuc of Proliisloric Works East of the Itocky 

Mountains, p. 40; Proc. A. A. A. S.. xxxi. 1S,S2. j»it. TiSC. TlST. 
EiiRENREU'ii. P. ("oujirC's dcs Ani('ricanistes, Coniptcs Ivcndus, Paris, 1,S!)(); 

ref. in L'Antliropolojiic, 1891, j). 514. 
(lARciLASso i)E i>A Vega, Hlfetorla de Ja Conoiiista, i, 4, p. IT). 
CoMARA, Lopez de. Illstorla Genera! de las Tndlas. ti, <';ip. 2. 
GuMii.r.A. Illstorla del Orinoco, i. p. 1W et seq. : ref. in P.rinton, ^[ytlis of the 

New World, p. 2.'').'>. 
Jesuit relations. 
Krause, E. Zur Frage dor Rotfiirhuni? vorgeschiehtl ichor Skelettknodien ; 

Glohus. 19 Dec. 1901, .3(!l-3(;7 (witli hibllograph. references). 
Lafitau. J. F. Moeurs des Sauvages. Paris, 1724, ii. pp. 888, 408, 413. 
liAWSox. .ToiiN. A New Voyage to Carolina, London, 1709, pp. 21-22. 
Lewis and Ceark. Exi)e(lition to the Sources of the Missouri. Dublin, 1817, 

book 1, ]). 239. 
LosKiEi., <;. II. Hist, of the Mission of the TTnited Brethren Among the Indians 

of North America. London, 1794, part i, i)p. 49, 118, 119. 
Makovsky. a. Verhandl. P>erl. Anthrop. (ies., 20, 42r>. 
.MvriEGKA, .T. Verhandl. Berl. Anthrop. (ies., 27, <)88. 
^loRGAN. L. II. League of the IIo-De-No-Sau-Nee or Iroquois, Rochester, 1851, 

pp. 174. 175. 
NoRuis. 1'. W. »s'rc Yarrow, II. C. 

Pep.rin Dir Lac. Voyage dans les deux Louisianes, Paris, 1805, p. 275. 
PoTHERiE. Ilistoire de rAmeri(iue Septentrionale, Paris, 1722, iii, pp. 9, 10. 
l^OMAiN'.s, B. A Concise History of East and West Florida, 1775, p. 88. 
Sagard-Tiieodat, (i. Ilistoire du Canada. Paris, 1630, in, p. 047. 
Schoolcraft, II. R. Archives, iv, p. 05 ; v, p. 270. 
St'AiNHOUR, .T. .M. /S'ee Yarrow, II. C. 
Spizyn, a. a. Kurgane mit gefiirbten Skeleton ; refer by Stioda, in Arch. f. 

Anthrop., N. F., ii, 1, 1904, p. 00 ot soq. 
Stieda, L. Ueber gefiirbte Mensehenknochen in Griibern ; Corresp. BI. d. d. 

Gesellsch. f. Anthr., Ethn., and Urg., Nov., 1903, 155; Dec, 1903, 175-17(i 

(Arch. f. Anthrop., N. F., i, 4, 1904). 
Ten Kate, H. F. C. Materiaux pour servir a ranthro'iologio de la presciu'ile 

Californi<^nne, Bull, de la Soc d'Anthr. de Paris, 18SI, [);\ 551-.109. 
Turner, L. S. Hce Yarrow, II. C. 
Vasselovski. Reference in L'.\nthropologie, i. p. 708. 
Verhandl. Berl. anthrop. (Josellsch., 9, 121 ; 29, :',37 ot se(i. ; 30. 71-75. 2S1-285 

(W. Krause, Virc'iow, and others). 
Waitz, Theo. Anthrop. d. Naturv.Hker. Leipzig, 18<;2, III. pp. 198-199. Con- 
tains further references.) 
AViLLouciiHY, C. C. Prehistoric Burial Places in Maine, Archoological and 

Ethnological Papers of the Peabody Museum, Canil)ridge, .July, 1898. p. 9. 

etc. 
Yarrow, II. C. Introduction to the Study of Mortuary Customs Among the 

North American Indians, Washington, 1880, p[i. 27, ('>\. 71. (Quotes ,J. M. 

Spainhour, P. W. Norris, and Ii. S. Turnoi-. ) 
Zaborovski. References in Bull, de la Soc. d'Anthr. dc Paris, 1895, p. 128; 
. 1899, p. G12. 



"ki'ii 



8LTX(; (X)NTPvlVAX(n^:S VCm PK(UK('TTr.K WEAPONS." 



By F. Krat'se. 

hrilizin. 



There is already a rich, though scattered, literature on the subject 
of sling contrivances for missile weapons, but it is made up mostly of 
travelers* notes, mentioning these contrivances in certain localities, 
although there are also some comprehensive works treating them 
according to type and distribution. A general treatise, however, is 
still needed from which may be obtained a view of their distribution 
and varieties throughout the world. 

The missiles are projectiles driven by the lever power of the arm 
in contradistinction to those like the ax, hannner, sword, knife, and 
lance, which depend upon the thrusting power of the arm and, with 
few exce])tions, are intended merely for operation in the immediate 
vicinity. The most primitive projectiles were the stones and chibs 
and from the beginning the purpose has been to improve these missiles 
by giving them greater power of flight and surety of aim. This 
has been attained by lengthening the arm artificially and strengthen- 
ing the lever power, from which great distance resulted. This w^as 
attained for the stone l)y means of the sling, and the club was made 
more efficacious by changing the form, as with the throwing clubs 
of the South Africans, the Fijians, and others; in the sickle-shaped 
missiles, so that they became formidable as a projectile; in the boom- 
erangs of the Australians, or in the sharpened, thinner shafts for 
arrow or spear. The arrow, in its turn, could be sent afar through 
the principle of elasticity in the bow, an instrument encountered in 
all parts of the world, and Avhich has fiu'ther developed into arbalests 
and to firearms. Sling contrivances for the spear are found in cer- 
tain parts of the world depending upon either the lengthening of 
ihe arm, upon lever power, or that which serves to give the spear & 
revolution upon its axis. These contrivances were formerly quite 
widely dispersed, but are now to be found only in certain widely sepa- 
rated localities. They are divided into two classes: (1) Spear slings, 

1 Condensed translation of " Schleudervorrichtungen fiir Wurfwaflfen " in 
Internationales Arcliiv fiir Etlnui^raitliic, Leiden. Band XV. Heft IV. I'.tO'J. 
Colored maps accompany the original work. 

619 



020 SLING CONTRIVANCES FOR PROJECTILE WEAPONS, 

iisnally called "throwing sticks," a misleading term, since it conveys a 
false meaning, as though these shafts were themselves thrown, while 
thej^ merely serve as a help in throwing; and (2) throwing nooses 
and throwing thongs. 

The spear sling is spread over four distinct areas: (1) Australia 
and, partially, Melanesia and Micronesia; (2) among certain north- 
eastern Asiatics, as well as among the American and (Ireenland Eski- 
mos; (3) Central America and equatorial South America, and (4) 
France during the reindeer epoch. 

The throwing noose is found in (1) New Caledonia, Xew Hebrides, 
and New Zealand; (2) Hawaii; (3) Togo, India, China (?); (4) 
among the Romans, Greeks, Celts, Cythians, and other barbarians. 

I. SrEAR Slings. 

The spear sling is a piece of wood formed either flat, like a board, 
or in the shape of a rod; it is held in the right hand and attached 
at the foot of the spear. In throwing, the right arm, stretched back- 
ward and holding the apparatus, is thrust forward with full force; 
at the same time the spear is released. The spear sling thus length- 
ens the arm of the thrower and serves as a lever to thrust the lance 
forward after it has flown beyond the reach of the hand." 

According to the methods by which the sling stick is fastened to 
the butt of the spear, three kinds are distinguished by v. Luschan : 
(1) "male;" (2) "female," and (3) "mixed" (Zwitterhaften). 

The male spear slings have a hook pointing toward the front, or 
grip at the upper end, and the spear has a small cavity or groove 
in the butt end into whicli the sling hoolv catches. The spear thus 
has a support until thrown oft', and at the same time can easdy 
release itself from the stick. In using, the native deftly catches the 
hook of this sling into the cavity at the butt of the spear, so that the 
instrument lies parallel to the underside of the shaft, while the out- 
stret<-lied left hand grasps the spear nearer the point, the fingers 
upward.'' When the spear is to be thrown, "the (right) hand 
grasps the sling stick as well as the weapon. r>otli are tlien turned 
I)ackward as far as the arm can reach, and the si)ear thi-own forward 
wdth all the miglit." ' One foot is generally thrust backward in 

o Lauterer : Australia and Tasmania, p. 272. 

Tlie itrineiple wliicli v. Liis<li;ui advances (Das Wurfhnlz in Xeu-IIollnnd 
und Milii-onesien) is not entirely correct. He compares the throwing motion 
with that of slinging an apple from a stick. But in this operation almost a quar- 
ter circle is described by the arm and stick, with the apple as center; about the 
same motion is therefore made as with the sling for stones. With the spear 
sling the same motion takes place as in ordinary spear throwing, except that 
the right hand does not itself hold the spear, but its continuation, the stick. 

6 Klennn : AVerkzeuge nnd Waffen, p. 31 et seq. 

c Lumholtz : Unter Menschenfressern, 1, 122 et seq. 



SLIN(J (M1NTR1VAN(U<:S FOR PROJECTILE WEAPONS. 621 

throw ill*:;," the (lis«'har<i(', (here Core, occiiiTiiiji; l>y the forward (hriisl 
of llu' sliny- K'li^lhciK'd arm. 'I'liis male spcai' sliii^ occurs in difiercnt 
forms ill Australia and in South America. 

f The female spear slin<2^ is provided with a groove along the upper 
side, which terminates in a cavity near the outer end. Into this 
groove the spear is hi id lengthwise, and either its somewhat tapering 
end or hook set thereon is inserted into the cavity. (See the second 
\ariety of (ireenland s})ear slings.) The spear lies firndy upon the 
shaft and easily releases itself from the cavity. The use is, in gen- 
eral, the same as the male spear slings. This class, with various 
modifications, is dispersed throughout Melanesia (especially in New 
(suinea), Micronesia, and (xreenland. 

Mixed spear slings are intermediate between the other two kinds. 
In these, at the end of the grooves on the upper side, a hook whittled 
from the shaft or inserted independently protrudes horizontally, or 
forward somewhat obliquely. On this the hollowed end in the butt 
of the spear is hooked. Its use is the same as in the other kinds. 
This class has the widest dispersion, being found among the north- 
eastern Asiatics, American Eskimos, in southern North America, in 
Central America, and one variety in South America ; also very prob- 
ably in France. The spear slings of the Greenland Eskimos are some- 
what analogous in construction and use. 

The grips of the spear slings are greatly varied, in many classes no 
special grip l)eing present; the shaft is grasped at the smoothed end 
(Australian). AYith others, on the contrary, care is taken that the 
hand may have a firm hold, and that the grip may not slip out of it 
easily. For this purpose the shaft at that point is made either rough 
by indentations or notches (Australian), wrapped with hair (Austra- 
lian), or covered with rosin, in which a shell or stone is often stuck, 
to make a firm grip easy; a hole is made, in which the forefinger is 
inserted (Eskimo) ; one or more pegs project from the border, against 
Avhich the index and other fingers rest (Eskimo, South American) ; 
or, finally, a grip is set on, in which again finger holes occur (Eskimo, 
Central and South American). 

The operation of the spear sling is very important, as with it one 
should be able to send the implement three or four times as far as 
with the bare hands. The natives of Australia, for instance, hit 
(|uite accurately at 40 paces ;'^ at 10 paces their spears still bear de- 
struction to the victim;' and an Englishman saw' a native of Port 
Jackson (Sidney) aiming the spear sling at a mark 276 feet away.'' 
^^'^lile spears can be throwm 50 to 75 feet with the bare hand, from 

« Klenmi : Unter Mensohenfressern. 

ti Kloinm : Wei'kz. iind Waffeii. p. 81 ot seq. 

c Lauterer : Austral, u. Tasmania, p. 272 et soq. 



622 SLING CONTRIVANCES FOR PROJECTILE WEAPONS. 

the spear slino- thov easily reach '200 to :}00 feet."' Indeed, aceordin^ 
to (Mutterbtick.'' the Australians are said to have made even 150 yards 
Avitli the spear slin<j:. AVhether these last statements are entirely 
accurate we can not decide, but one constantly sees references to 
great distances attained by aid of the spear sling. 

LOCALITIES AND TYPES. 

We now turn from this general view to the localities where the 
spear sling is used, to familiarize ourselves with the types there occur- 
ring. 

The region in which spear slings are most frequent, even at the 
present day, is Australia. The principal weapon of the Australians 
is the spear, 3 to 4 meters in length, and all Australian spears 
except those used in catching fish are thrown by means of a sling, 
called " wommera,''*' which is used both in war and in the chase. It 
was at one time distributed fhroughout Australia, but, being sup- 
planted more and more by firearms, slings are now limited to West 
Australia from the north and the territory beyond New South Wales 
and Victoria. 

The male type only is found in Australia, and may be divided into 
two large groups. In the first the hook and shaft are in one piece, 
while in the second group the hook is a separate piece (bone, tooth, 
wax), often of different material than that of the shaft, fastened on 
by winding with reed and thread and smeared with Avax. 

This first group occurs only in Melbourne and vicinity. The grip 
of the shaft is rounded, often thickened by means of wax, sometimes 
roughened by means of incisions to prevent the hand from slipping 
during slinging. The shaft broadens toward the center and sud- 
denly tapers to a point at the outer end. The under side from the 
center out is slanted or rounded toward both edges, the upper side 
slightly hollowed. Very broad and very narrow forms occur, as 
well as round, between which are all intermediate degrees. They 
are often carved, especially on the back, with all sorts of figures and 
Avith the line ornamentation so general in Australia (pi. i, figs. 1 and '2) . 

Those of the second group, with the hook composed of wood, bone, 
tooth, or wax set into the outer end of the handle, are subdivided into 
two types, AA'ith numerous subdivisions. Type I comprises broader 
or narrower blades, or those slightly hollowed on the under side, 
while Type II is of round shafts. Type I again falls into two sub- 
divisions: (a) The spear sling is more or less broad, therefore leaf- 
sha]^ed; the hook is fastened at the upper end upon one side; (b) 

« Wallace : Australasia, 3(1 ed., p. 124 et seq. 

6 Waltz : .Vnthropol. der Naturvolker. VI, ]>. 472 et secj. 

c Ratzd : \'olkefkiUKle, II ed., p. 43 et sen. 



HLING CONTRIVANCES FOR PROJKCTTI.K W'KAPONS. (i28 

(lie slinos ai'o IiUo^Yiso rather broad, the hook not fastened to the flat 
surface l)iit to the ed^e of the shaft. The spear slinks with the hook 
u})on tlie face are found from Kino- (U'orijes Sound to (leograjjhy 
Bay." in the iircat west Australian desert, in Xullai»ine. on the table- 
hind, and by the Sherlock Kiver.'' The second kiiul is therefore 
restricted to West Australia. It is a thin, extremely broad, long-oval 
board. oft(>ii hollow on the upper side and slightly curved npon the 
lower, the small wooden hook is set upon the face, so that great wind 
rt'sistance is overcome during use; why the shaft is so wide is not 
known: at least, no advantage is to be derived from the breadth. 
The gri]) is eomi)osed of a lump of gum, ai)plied either symmetrically 
or slightlv sidewise. from which protrudes a piece of shell or stone, 
the latter serving for a firmer grip, sharpening the spear points, and 
aenerally as a cutting instrument, since it has an edge.'' This type of 
spear sling is (piite abundant (pi. i. fig. -5). The type found among 
the Xannines (West Australia)'' is similar, it is a not very broad, 
parallel-sided, flat stick, about 1.20 meters long, tapering at both 
ends. The Avooden hook is attached above, on the face, a piece of 
gum is applied for a grip, in which is a piece of shell or stone 
(pi. I, fig. 4). This leads to the type used from Beagle Bay north- 
ward as far as Port Darwin," at Carpenter Gulf, and in the northern 
territory of South Australia i'^ perhaps even farther inland to the 
Eiry Lake.'' The shaft is of nearly the same form as the preceding, 
execept that it is not parallel-sided, but tapers toward the outer end. 
The grip is clearly defined and allows a firm grasp. The hook being 
bound to the shaft with cords and gum, the entire shaft is then 
covered with a reddish earth. Decorative figures are often carved 
upon the sides (pi. i, fig. 5). 

The type found from Port Darwin to Port Essington and on INIel- 
\ ille Island is (piite as flat, narrow, and pointed," it dift'ers from the 
foregoing in that the shafts are bent and very elastic. The handle 
consists of a pear-shaped piece of gum. That part of the sliaft next 
the grip is ornamented in lines. What advantage these particular 
shafts present is not known, as they are elastic, they permit a bow 
thrust, and at all events, they make throwing a greater distance pos- 
sible. They are quite rare (pi. i, fig. <')). A class which but partly 

a According to v. Luschan : Das Wurfholz in Neu-Hollnnd und Oceanien, p. 
138. 

6 According to statements found witli the shafts in the Leipzic Museum of 
Kthnograpliy (Grassi Museum). 

(■ Schurtz : Urgeschichte der Kultur, p. 389. 

<i Four examples of tliis tjpe are in the Leipziger Museum fiir Vollcerkunde. 

f After \ . Luschan : Das Wurfholz. p. 140. 

f .\ccording to statements on the shafts in the Leiiizie Museum. 

.'V After King. See Waitz : Anthropologic der Naturvijiker. VI. p. 742 et seq. 



624 SLING CONTRIVANCES FOR PROJECTILE WEAPONS. 

belongs to tliis oroup is used on the jMurniy River. The grip is 
very long and cylindrieal : the shaft tlien sv ells to a broad central 
portion, arched underneath and flat on top, > hich graduates toward 
the outer end and terminates into a rounded afl', where a kangaroo 
tooth is fastened. The grip is made rough or opossum fur applied 
to prevent the slipping of the fingers. This k ' forms the transition 
to the second type, the rounded stick (pi i, fi ). 

The second group of the first type is of bro i- or narrower shafts, 
to Avhich the hook is attached, not upon the . ', but upon the edge. 
They are found particularly upon the Cape ork Peninsula and in 
northern Queenland; perhaps also in New ooiith Wales. Certain 
variations again appear within this type : On one kind, usual on Cape 
York Peninsula, two long oval shells are attadied slantingly above. 
Whether these serve merely as a grip for tht hand or some further 
advantage is to be attained through them is not known (pi. i, fig. 8). 

Another kind, also from Cape York Peninsula, is substantially 
narrower and shorter and does not have the shell, but a quite smooth 
grip, which, however, has distinct lashings. It may be that the shell 
has been lost; in that event l)oth these types would be in a single 
group (pi. I, fig. 1^). Lastly, a third type similar to the boomerang 
occurs in northern Queensland. As the tooth protrudes beyond the 
edo-e, it is quite probable that this shaft Avas also a boomerang, 
and is a doubly useful weapon (pi. i, fig. 10.) Only with these 
three weapons is it possible to swing the stick in a circle, accord- 
ing to V. Luschan's principle. But at all events, as the hook is on 
the edge, these three types serve to develop the utmost slinging 
force of the shaft, for by it the wind resistance is easily overcome 
and distance and accuracy substantially increased. These are, per- 
haps, the most perfect spear slings in Australia. One reported by 
Klenmi " may also belong here, as it occurs at Port Jackson and in 
the vicinity of Sydney. lie merely says that a native attained a 
distance of 27G feet with the spear sling. He characterizes the 
implements generally as 5 feet long, Avith a small peg or hook at the 
outer end and a shell at the opposite for ornament, which serves as a 

grip. 

The second type of the second group presents long, rounded shafts, 
and is usual in northeastern Australia, especially in the northern 
territory. These are plain, rounded shafts about 1.20 meters long, 
tapering slightly toward the outer end. The grip is thickened by 
means of concentric layers of gum '' or wound Avith cords twisted 
from human hair, showing a large tuft at the end,*- and the hook is a 

a Kleuim : Werkzeug und Waffen. p. .31 et se(i. 

6 According to v. Luschan ; Das Wudfholz. pp. 142-143. 

c Schmeltz: Intern. Arch., 1, p. 136 et seq. ; Ublc: Intern. Arch., T. p. 19G. 



Smithsonian Report. 1904. — Krause. 



Plate I. 




Slings for Hurling Weapons. 



Smithsonian Repoit. 1904. — Kiause. 



Plate II 




Slings for Hurling Weapons. 



SLTNG CONTRIVANCES FOR PRO.T KCTIT.K WEAPONS. 625 

lar^f wooden (oot!i oi' :i luin|i of <2;iiin which ends in a sharp j)<)int 

(pi. I, liji-. 11). 

I.uschaii " liixt's (cii or twelve sharply deliiied (ypos of Australian 
spear slinofs, whicii are chai'acterist ic of the localities where found. 
These tyi)es have been discarded here, and a new division made 
as follows: The chief characteristic on the spear sling is the hook. 
Aecordinii' to its \arious modes of attachment, spear slings are 
tlivided into those having hook and shaft in one piece, and those in 
which the hook is attached indejiendently. The latter, according to 
shape, have broad shafts, hoard-shaped, or round shafts, with two 
smaller groups of those with hook on the face and those with hook 
on the edge. 

Tn the greater or less breadth of the shafts, in the variety of grips, 
in the straight or twisted forms of shafts, there are not such varieties 
for characterizing a main division as in the diti'erent fastenings of the 
hook, the [)rincipal i)iece on the male s]:)ear sling. All these slight 
ditl'erences must be regarded as local modifications of the present 
main type. 

The second area in Avhich spear slings appear is northeast from 
Australia, in Melanesia, or, rather New Guinea and Micronesui, in 
■which area spear slings are chiefly used as Aveapons of war,'' whether 
also of the chase there are no accounts. It probably earlier spread 
thi'ough INIelanesia and IMicronesia, but is knoAvn only from New 
Guinea, the Fiji Islands, the Carolines, Pelew, and Marianas. Ac- 
cording to type, only female spear slings occur here. 

We can further distinguish two groups of spear slings — those with 
a piece and those without a piece attached. The former occurs in 
New Guinea onl}', and the spear sling is here on the German north 
coast as far as Astrolabe Bay, covering Empress Augusta River,'" 
Cape della Torre,'' Venus Hook,*^ Ilansa Inlet, '^ Hatzfeldhafen,'^ Cape 
Gourdon,'^ Hammaker River,'' Astrolabe Bay,^ where they are very 
numerous and always beautifully worked.'' This spear sling is made 
of a shaft of bamboo ()0 to 80 centimeters long, cut off so that one 
end (the upper) terminates at a knot. About two-fifths of its length 
(measured from grip) the shaft is split off in such manner that at one 
end one-fourth and at the other three-fourths of its thickness is cut 

f V. Luschan : Das Wurfholz in Nea-Holland uud Oceanien. 
'' Keiite : Pelew Islands (1789), p. 414 et seq. Schnieltz : Intern. Anli., I, 
p. G7. 

cUhle: intern. Arch.. 1. p. 196. 

d Sc'hmeit/. : Intern. Arch., I, p. 136. Note 7. 

e Tappenbeck : Deutsch New Guinea, p. 73. 

f According to statements on specimens in the Leipzig Museum. 

9 Finsch : P^rfabrunsen und P.elegstiicko aus der Siidsee, p. 212. 

'' Krieger : Neu Guinea, p. 43 et seq. 

SM 1904 40 



(')2G STJNf; CONTHIVANCKS F()F{ I'liO.J KCTILK WEAPONS. 

iiwMV. The Uiiot ill the ("11(1 is retained and shows a small excavation. 
TJie spear l)el()n<,nn<r (o this, 2.50 to :' meters long, has in the middle, 
near (he center ol' gravity, a short hook hent backwaid, arlistically 
fastened (o the shaft with a rattan or hast binding. In nse, the spear 
is laid lengthwise in the furrow of (lie sling, but in such manner that 
(lie liKle wooden hook catches iii(o (he hollow at the knot.." The 
spear thus has a siip|)ort in throwing outward and releasing, bnt still 
does not lie firmly enough to enable it to hit a mark. To achieve 
that, and to assuic a certain direction of flight, an attached piece is 
placed between the beginning of the gi-oove and the grip, alway.s 
lying in a groove by itself. Px'ginning at the grip, it rises at a slant 
of some H) centimetei'S above the beginning of the gi'oove an<l is 
securely bound to the shaft with string bands. It does not lie on a line 
with the speai- gi-oov(>, but alongside^ and pai-allel. It is whittled from 
wood and or'namente(| with great (;are, the faxoi'ite forms <ar\ed 
being those of animals, kangai-oo, rhinoceros birds, and crocodiles 
fi-ecpiently ap])earing as attached pieces, often completely c(mvention- 
ali/ed so that their meaning is obscui-e(| (pi. i, lig. lli). 

As already indicated, the i)urpose is to give the si)ear a firm sii])- 
jK)rt to hinder its gliding off. Tn use, tlKMvfore, the hook is inserted 
into the cavity, the speai' laiil into the groove with the right side 
leaning against the attached piece, where it is tightly ])ressed Avith 
the thumb, the fingers clas])ing the grip, the attached j)iece here 
taking the place, so to speak, of fingers ( \'. Liischan). The grij) 
is simply the smooth reed, seldom ornamenle(l. but often covei'ed 
with j)laited woi'k, so that the hand has a firm hold, while at the 
knot are all kinds of decorations, notched carvings and |)laited bands, 
which are at the same time to hold the reed fioiii si)litting. The 
motion in slinging off is the same as w ith the .Vustralian spear slings 
(pi. I, figs, i:; and i:',a). 

All other speai' slings in Melanesia and Micronesia are wilhoul 
attached i)iece. They have i)robably died out lieic entirely, for 
examples are little known. There ai-e many repoits of theii- appear- 
ance in tliis district, but the fact is annoiniced without giving i)re 
cisc description of the stick and its weapon. Waitz mentions spear 
slings of the Fiji Islands. (Anthropologic der Naturv()lker, VI, p. 
597 et seq.) The w^eapons are here beautifidly worked. They are 

«I'arkinson: Die Rorlin-IIiifoii-Sektion ; Intern. Archiv., XIII, p. 29. Finscli : 
Etlmologische I'h-CjiliruiiKcii iiiid i'.clcjxsliicke aus der Siidseo; Wien, 181)3, p. 
212, confirnied likewise h.v Doctor liicsc in a verbal contribution to Doctor 
Wenle in Leipzig;. Doctor Licso wiis in New (;nin<';i lor ;i Ioiik time and there 
saw tliis practice, and upon Ins return lirou<;lit several exanii»les wliidi are now 
in the nniseuni at Lei))zi{;. Doctor Weule denionstraled witli these. ConiitMro 
therewilli v. Luschan : Das Wurfiiolz, [». MS, whose ui)inion, aecordinjiiy, is 
incorrect. 



SLING CONTRTVANCES FOR I'HO.J KCTl MO WKAPONS. (\27 

also iiiciit i()ii('(| IVoiii (lie Ciiroliiic Islands, the IMiili|»piii(s, New 
(iiiinea, iiiid I'l'lcw Island. 

In (y|)<' (licsc shafts wci-c similar to those of New (Jninea, even to 
(he j)iece attache<| and the Hnei' exeention (|)i. I. fii!;. 14). The 
spears there lia\f ii(» spine set on, as those from New (Juinca; it is 
(liei-efore presumed that the shai'|) hntts of the spears are stuck into 
the hoHow at llie oiilef end of the s|)eai' slin<>-, and ai-e held seeui-eiy 
by the first, seeond, and fourth lingers of the ri<?ht hand. The prac- 
tice is, therefore, nearly the .same as in Australian spear slinirs. An 
attached piece is, of course, superfluous. Keport is made of another 
use of spear slings in the Pelew Islands; the elastic hamhoo spear 
is set with its point in the groove of the shaft, the left hand holds 
the spear tow aid the outer end and inclines it more or less according 
to the distance sought. When the hand is removed the spear flies and 
usually falls i)er|)endicularly upon its target." Reports of Chamiso 
from Ya]) will i>rol)al)ly be similar, that the spear was shot from the 
bow with the aid of a trough-shaped piece of l)amboo. 

The third area in which spear slings are found, having nuich 
variety in shaft and quite extensive use in hunting on the water, even 
though il is being supplanted by firearms, is the jjolar i-egions.'' 
They are used there among the (iiliaks (Annir district and Sag- 
iialin), among certain northeast Asiatic races, upon the Aleutian 
Islands, on the shoi-es of Alaska, on the north coast of America, 
in T^abrador. (Jreenland, and among the Eskimos generally. The 
Greenlander, whose artistic spear slings will be considered further 
on, is here omitted. According to the pi'o\ ision foi" the forefinger,'' 
three groups are distinguished: (1) A hole for the forefinger is cut 
on the side of the shaft to the right from the spear groove; (2) the 
l^jcket or cavity for forefinger is i)laced on the central line of the 
under side and, if it goes through, terminates in the spear groove ; and 
(3) a notch for the forefinger is cut to the right of the grip, fi'om 
behind which jjroti'udes a peg. We find the first gi'(nij) in Labrador, 
Baffinsland, along the entire northern coast of North America, in 
Alaska, on the Fox and Aleutian islands, as among the Giliaks, and 
[ certain northeast Asiatics. It is usually a broad strip of wood, taper- 
ing more or less to a ])oint at the outer end. A gi-oove for the spear 
is made on the flat upi)er side, from the end of which j)rojects a small 
bone hook (this is not fastened with gum and bindings, as in the case 

« Keato, Pelew Islands (1789). p. 414 et seq. ; 188 et seq. 

6 Mason, U. S. National Museum Rep., 1884, pp. 279-289, 17 pis. 

cThe plan lias been arranged according to the provisions for the forefinger. 

as this is the most distinguishing characteristic of these north-country sling 

sticks. This division makes possible a simj)U' grou|»ing of the different kinds. 

and a clear view of tiieir distribution in these areas, l)oth geographically and 

' ethnographical ly. 



028 SLING CONTRIVANCES FOR PROJECTILE AVEAPONS. 

of the Australian sticks, but is inserted in the shaft). The groove 
deepens as it a|)})r()aehes tlie hook: toAvard the opposite end it becomes 
shalloAver and terminates in the handle. To the right of this groove, 
at the moi-e or less distinctly defined grip, is a hole through which the 
foivfinger is placed during use, making impossible the slipping of the 
board. The grip either is quite smooth on the edges or has notches 
for the fingers. The spear, thick, heavy, and harpoonlike, has a cav- 
ity at its square end into which the hook of the spear sling fits when 
in use, Avhile the spear itself lies in the groove. The left hand holds 
the spear toward the point, otherwise the mode of shooting is simi- 
lar to that of the Australian spear slings. Slight modifications of 
this variety, all pertaining to the grip, are noted in different localities 
in the polar regions." 

Why are such distinct handles encountered here in the north? The 
answer is eas}'. Because of the small diameter of the forefinger hole 
it is not possible to use gloves; the natives are, therefore, forced to 
take hold of the spear slings with the bare hand. Even then, be- 
cause of the strong jerk in throwing oft", the last-named tend to glide 
out of the hand. How much more will it not be the case when cold- 
benumbed hands try to hold the smooth shaft? It is necessary, there- 
fore, to attain the firmest possible grasp, which, as we have seen, has 
been done with these artistic grips. The most perfect in this regard 
is the shaft of the Mahlemut, in which all the good qualities are in- 
cluded — distinct handle, thumb groove, forefinger pocket on under 
side, finger grooves on the side, with peg and finger-ti|) cavity, shaft 
groove, and end hook. As to our three princijjal kinds, the first is 
from Baffinslancl and liabrador onward over the entire north coast 
of North America as far as northeast Asia, and returns to America 
through the Giliaks, Aleuts, Unalaskans, and Kadiak islanders as 
far as Prince AVilliam Sound. It is important to notice that this 
variety is to be found among the northeast Asiatics, Giliaks. and 
Aleuts, since this might helj:) to prove the relationship of these iso- 
lated peo])les to the Eskimos in a broader sense, in addition to other 
similarities. 

We now come to the spear slings of Greenland. Three varieties 
are also used here, which are attached to the spear by an entirely 
new method. The spear slings lying before me are genuine works 
of art, Avrought probably with iron tools and ornamented with in- 
layings of bone. They were finished otf upon the order of a Green- 
land missionary who was having a complete Kajak outfit made for 

«The autlior describes rather minutely a luiinber of varieties in tlie form of 
the shaft and the grip, wliich are omitted in this translation. They are illus- 
trated in pi. I, figs. 15-17. pi. II, figs. 18-28 (also see Mason, Rep. U.S.N.M., 
1884).— Editor. 



SUNG rONTRTVANCES FOR PROJECTILE WEAPONS. 629 

himself; Imt, haviuii- no use for it, it was traiisferretl, still new, to 
(he possession of the Leipzic Museinn fiir A^ilkerkiuide, together 
with three spear slings and all appurtenances. The first variety is a 
shaft 43 centimeters in length. tn]>ering slightly towainl the outer 
end about 5 to 8 centimeters broad, called '^ Norsok '' ('''■ Vogel- 
wurfbrett"), according to Virchow, which is used for throwing in a 
straight line, and is also used in this manner in Labrador (pi. in, figs. 
;;() to ;K)e). The upixM- side is flat; the under slanted olf both ways 
from a central line. In the middle of the upper side a groove shallows 
fi-om the start and stops short before reaching the outer end of the 
stick, so that a small, smooth space is left. Upon this a tapering 
bone hook is attached, leaning toward the front and projecting over 
the groove. On both sides of the grip are thin bone pieces somewhat 
tapering, Avhich secure a fii'uier grip. Xo ornamentation is present 
in this kind. A very ingenious harpoon is thrown with this, having 
a quite strong, roimd shaft, 1.15 meters long. At the butt end a bone 
plate is set, which is so hollowed out that the point of the spear-sling 
hook tits exactly into it. The c(miparatively long iron head with 
harpoon blade is so fastened that when the toggle strikes it remains 
in the animal and is still connected with the shaft by means of a 
leather line." The shaft now turns downward and takes a perpen- 
dicular position in the water and a bladder attached at the other end 
easily holds the shaft upon the surface of the water and shows the 
hunter the position of the animal." The method of throwing is the 
same as with Australian sticks. 

The second variety is even more ingenious. It is female, and the 
groove extends from front to back, the shape and the handle being 
otherwise the sanie as Avith the first variety. Two holes in the groove 
are to be noted, one occurring about the middle of the grip, the other 
in a bone set on at the end of the groove fitting into it. The hole is 
not perpendicular, but slants backward. The shaft is decorated 
with five carved walrus-ivory pieces inserted in each side of the edge 
(pi. Ill, figs. 'M II to c). The accompanying harpoon is 2 meters long, 
with solid iron point inserted into a piece of bone. The thick shaft, 
at 20 centimeters beyond the center of gravity, has two bone pegs 
corresponding to the holes in the spear slings, and set backward to 
fit into them. In use the spear is laid in the groove of the spear 
sling, the pegs fitted into .their holes. The shaft then still projects 
50 centimeters backward beyond the board. The spear sling is not 
applied at the end, but quite in the center of the spear (as with those 
from New Guinea). In slinging, according to Yirehow,'' the thrower 
gives a slight push upward, so that the first peg rises from the shaft ; 

a Klemm : Werkz. und Waffen, p. 33 et seq. 

f> Virchow : Verbandlungen der Berliner Authropol. Gesellschaft, 1880, p. 
268 et seq. 



630 SLING CONTRIVANCES FOR PROJECTILE WEAPONS. 

the second hook, as it is placed slantingly backward, easily releases 
itself from the shaft, and serves to help it in swinging otf. A 
strongly curved thrust is attained after the first push in swinging 
off. This implement is used in hunting aquatic animals, for which 
a curved thrust from the kaiak is necessary. 

The third variety is most interesting. Its shaft is generall}^ of the 
same form as the foregoing, except that it tapers suddenly at the 
outer end to the half of its width. The grip is about the same as 
the preceding, the reverse, slanting toward each side, is not decorated. 
The shallow groove runs from front to l)ack. Eight centimeters dis- 
tant from the inner end, in the center of the groove, is a hole, which 
narrows toward the bottom. In the groove at the upper end a narrow 
bone about 6 centimeters long is inserted, which bends upward and 
forward to a hook extending from the end of the weapon (pi. iii, 
figs. 32 a to e). The harpoon accompanying it, called " erneinek " 
(Klemm), is l.GO meters long, somewhat thicker front and back than 
in the center, and leveled. The bone point is bound fast to the shaft, 
on the butt end is a bone plate with a small hollow, on both sides 
of this a long, flat, broad piece of bone is attached, formed like a 
shuttle (Klemm), which extends about Vl centimeters over the end. 
Both these plates are very ingeniously fastened by means of small 
bone rivets. Thirty-seven to forty-two centimeters from the back end 
a bone hook is struck through the shaft at right angles, so that the 
hook nearest that end is on a level with the flat surface of both bone 
plates. In use the hook of the spear sling grips into the cavity of the 
end plate between the two prolonged flat bones. The other hook, ?u 
centimeters distant, grips into the hole in the shaft, which is supported 
by the left hand. Again an upward push is given from the front, so 
that the spear releases itself from the board. The back hook then 
gives the proper swing and direction, and thus results a curved 
thrust. Both the side pieces of bone at the back end serve, according 
to Klemm, to make the aim straighter and surer. They therefore 
serve the same purpose as the feathers at the end of the arrow. At 
the second hook an 8-fathom-long leather line (Klemm) is fastened 
by means of a bone ring. So it is seen how the Eskimos, " with nuich 
intelligence, with simple appliances, have provided themselves with 
an implement for the main purpose of their existence, the hunt, Avhich 
allows them to take their prey at considerable distance from their 
kaiaks and with the greatest safety." (VirchoAv.) 

The last area of distribution of the spear sling is Ceniral and 
South America. It was used both in the chase and in war. The 
spear sling was in use, probably till the end of the con(iuest (1530), 
in Utah," Colorado, California, Florida, Mexico, Yucatan, on the 



a George H. Pepper : Internat. Cong, of Americanists, N. Y., 1902, 107-130. 



SLTNO CONTRIVANCKS h'OW PROJECTILE WEAPONS. 631 

Greater Antilles and Lucayas, in Central America (in the east and 
south) in Columbia, Ecuador, Peru, and in the Amazon Ilivei- dis- 
trict, east. Peru, and north Brazil. It is still in use in Michoacan, 
on Lake Patzeuaro. and in P>razil among the tribes of the ui)per 
Xingu and Araguaya. There are three types — one androgynous 
and two male. The androgynous form is the old Mexican atlatl. 
The shaft is thin and not very strong. For a grip it is hollowed 
out on the edges, and a leather thong forms a loop on either side for 
the second and third fingers, or a piece of shell is attached to the 
back; or a piece cut from shell" is placed on each side of the handle; 
or braided cords'- take the place of the thong; or, in rude types, a 
crosspiece only is attached, Avhich projects to right and left;. 
Finally, there is a groove in the center, or often one at both sides of 
the shaft. San Marcos, Fla.,^ Santa Barbara, Cal.'^ The grip is 
like one from Greenhmd (see pi. iii, fig. 33). On the front a 
furrow diminishes toAvard the outer end, where a peg protrudes. 
In the class made of rings of shell a piece of hide is attached,'' by 
the aid of which the third and fourth fingers press against the Ijoard 
from beneath. The upper end was often decorated with feathers, 
hair tufts, or narrow thongs. Sometimes a transparent quartz peb- 
ble was attached (according to Starr, 5) as a luck stone (see pi. 
jv, fig. 34). In use the second and third fingers hook into their 
rings, the spear is laid into the groove, and the cavity at the end 
rests against the peg. The first, fourth, and fifth fingers encircling 
the shaft hold the spear securely upon the sling. This form was 
still in use about the time of the discovery of America. In the 
descriptions and illustrations of Spanish historians of the conquest 
they are incorrectly drawn and explained.'^ It was used in war, but 
oftener in the chase and in fishing.^ It appears in ancient calendars 
and picture writings, especially associated with the sun god Tona- 
tiuh or Xiuhpilli, the fire god Xiuhtecutli, and of Tezcatlipoca,'' as 
seen in the works of Durian, Torquemada, Ranuisio, Oviedo, Ro- 
bledo, etc. It occurs singly upon sculptures and on the plaster 
casts in the Musee du Trocadero, from Olmec Uixtotin, on the 
Isthmus of Tehuantepec* Examples are preserved from the cave 

a Doctor Seler: Intern. Arch. Ill, p. 137-148; Stolpo: Intern. Arch. Ill, p. 
2.34-238. 

6 Doctor Seler : Intern. Arch. III. p. 144; the same: Globus, Gl, No. 7, p. !)7. 

c Mason: Intern. Arch. XI, p. 129, et seq. 

<JI)alton: Intern. Arch. X, p. 229, et seq. 

f Starr: Intern. Arch. XI, p. 233; Doctor Seler: Intern. Arch. III. p. 144. 

f Doctor Seler: (Mobus, 61, No. 7, p. 97 et seq.; Doctor ufile, Mitth. der 
Wiener anthrop. UcscHschaft. XVII, 1880, pt. 2, pp. 107-144. 

Schuts : Urgeschichte dor Kultur. 

h Doctor Seler: Intern. Arch. Ill, p. 130. 

i Doctor Seler : Globus, 61, No. 7, p. 97 et seq. 



632 SLING CONTRIVANCES FOR PROJECTILE WEAPONS. 

dwellings and tombs— for instance, from the munmiy caves of the 
hacienda del Coyote, in Coahuila," or from San Marco, Fla.,^ Santa 
Barbara, Cal.,'' Utah,'' and southwestern Colorado, and besides the 
ordinary ones, several magnificent examples, certainly not intended 
for use, being richly ornamented with carvings, paintings, and 
gilding, and representing temple decorations, and probably dedi- 
cated to the rain goddess Tlaloc,'' as they show her symbol. These 
beautiful examples come from Tlaxiaco, in Mixtec, in the street of a 
Pueblo toward Oaxaca.'^ 

The same type still appears at this day in spear slings used in 
Michoacan on Lake Patzcuaro.^ There is no account from ancient 
times that this type was in use in Avar, but it is still employed in 
hunting Avater foAvl -^ on Lake Patzcuaro, the flat shores being cov- 
ered Avith bamboo thickets in Avhich thousands of diiclvs nest. The 
spears are about "2 to l\ meters long and Viave a three-pronged 
point. The spear sling from this area is flat on the upper side and 
half round on the lower, 60 centimeters long, with round grip, which 
l)roadens into a flat piece AA'hich has tAVO holes for the third and 
fourth fingers. (Doctor Seler also mentioned" that the shafts from 
Patzcuaro Lake, of Avhich Mason gives first notice, had ears cut from 
shells, tied on AA'ith cotton cord, one on each side, for the third and 
fourth fingers. According to these Avriters, the shafts are very sijni- 
lar to those of the ancient Mexicans). The shaft narroAvs outward 
and has a broad deep groove on the u^jper side, at the end of Avhich a 
small hook is carved from the shaft. The grip is cut to fit the hand 
and terminates in a hook Avhich serA^es to draAA' the spear out of the 
Avater (see pi. iv, figs. 35 and 3()). This type Avas employed in Utah,*' 
southAvestern Colorado,'' California,' Florida,^ Mexico,^ ' '■ ' especially 
in Coahuila,'' in Yucatan among the Tutulxiu.'' Isthnnis of Tehuan- 

" Doctor Seler: Globus, 61, No. 7, p. 97 et seq. 

6 Mason : lutein. Arch. XI, 19; Starr, ibid., p. 2:VS et seq. 

c Dalton : Intern. Arfb. X, p. 2l2."» et se(i. 

d Herman Strebel : Intern. Areb. IV, p. 22.5 et seq. ; compare also Doctor Seler: 
Intern. Arch. Ill, pp. 187-148, wbo considers that tbey are temple pieces dedi- 
cated to the rain gt)d. 

e Doctor Seler: Intern. Arch. III. p. l."!7 et seq. 

/Starr: Arch. XI, i». 2.''.;i : also (ilobus, 7.S, j). 207; and Indians of southern 
Mexico, pi. 21. 

i/ Starr: Arch. XI, i». 2:^;^ et seq.; aud Pepper: Cong, of Americanists, 19(»2, 
J). 107 et seq. 

'' Mason : Arch. XI, p. 129 et seq. 

t Dalton : .\rcli. X, )). 22.'5 ft seq. 

i From tlie Key dwellings ou the Gulf coast and from San Marco in Florida: 
Mason: Intern. Arch. XI, 19. After Dalton: Proc. Anier. IMiilos. Soc Phila.. 
1S97, vol. 3.5, PI. XXXV, f. 4. 

1^ Muuuny Cave of the Hacienda del Coyote; Doctor Seler: Globus. CI. i>. 97. 

i Uhle: ^litth. Wiener Antbroii. Gesellsch., 1887, No. XVII, i)art 2, pp. 1U7-114. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Ktause. 



Plate III, 




Slings for Hurling Weapons. 



Smithsonian Report, 19^4. — Kraus 



Plate IV. 




Slings for Hurling Weapons. 



SLTNG CONTRIVANCES FDR PKO.IKCTILE WEAPONS. ()|-{8 

tepee (Olmeea Uixtotin, from clay figures in the Musee clii Troca- 
(lero)," Palenqiie in Giiatoniala,'' Panama,^ Province of Cneva (after 
Oviedo''), in acldilion pr()l)al)ly also on the Ciireater Antilles and 
Lucayas (Bahama Islands'). 

Accordino- to Starr the spear sling is still in nse on the inner anirlc 
of the Atlantic Cinlf coast, in Tenanpulco, in Apnlo, and at Tecohitla 
and Nanthla Kiver. Another shaft is here to h(> mentioned which is 
])rol)al)ly the prototype of the Mexican. Tt is from Santa Barbara, 
Cal., and seems shoi'ter (lian any oTIicr known ' (see pi. i\\ fig. l\7). 
The shaft is broad and thick and about one and one-half times as 
long as wide. On the npi)er side, extending from the front, is a 
narrow groove which ends at two-thirds of (he distance. At the 
outer end a sharp tooth bent forward protrudes. Two finger holes, 
one at each side of the groove, are bored (hi'ough the shaft, as in the 
spear slings of Florida and Lake Patzcuaro. It is assmned that this 
is the original of the Mexican spear sling; for, first, the short length 
is proof that the evolution of the spear sling is liere in its first stage: 
secondly, ancient illustrations of spear slings not much longer are to 
be .seen in Doctor Seler: Intern. Arch., Volume III, page 139, figure 4 
(see fig. 88), the Codex Mendoza ; thirdly, Mrs. Nuttall mentions, as 
a weapon of war, a spar sling only '2o centimeters long. 

The second type Avas in use in northw-estern South America. In 
Colombia, among the Chibchas;" in Ecuador, among the Purahaes 
(according to Cieca) as in the vicinity of the Latacunga ; beyond 
this, mainly on the highlands (Oviedo, Valesco), and Quito,'' on the 
Riobamba.' as in Peru,-' quite common. No spear sling no\v occurs 
there. All that we know of it is learned, either from descriptions 
and illustrations in Spanish Avriters, from facsimiles in gold (for 
example those of Chibcha in the Leipzig Museum), from pictures 
on pottery (Peru), or from a few examples still in existence (from 
Quito, in Rome; from Riobamba, discovered by Mr. Reiss). This 
type is entirely difierent and decidedly masculine. A rough stick 

o Mummy Cave of the Hacienda del Coyote; Doctor Seler: Globus, (tl, p. 97. 

6Uhle: Mitth. Wiener Antliro]). (Jesellseh., 1887, XVII, part 2. p]). 107 et seq. 

'"Waitz: Antln-opol. dvv Naturvolker, IV, p. 349. 

rf .Mummy Caves of the Hacienda del Coyote; Doctor Seler: (ilolms, (Jl. jip. 97 
et seq. 

f- Waltz: Op. c-it. IV, i). 322, according to Narraveta I, 21, 7.1, 219; Ovieda. 
Ill, 5. 

/ Dalton : Notes of an Ethnugr. Collection * * * Intern. Arehiv., X, ]>. 
225 et seq. 

y Wait5<: Anthropol. der Naturvolker, IV, p. ;^t;9; Guarantors: Oviedo, Simon 
Piedrabita. 

''Stoipe: Intern. Archiv., Ill, p. 2;:57. 

i Uhle: Mitth. Wiener anthrop. Gesellschaft, No. XVII, 1887. pii. 107-114. 

} Dalton : Intern, .\rrhiv., X. pj). 22.5 et seq., from illustrations upon a vase 
from Peru, iu possession of Mr. Read. 



634 



SLING CONTRIVANCES FOR PROJECTILE WEAPONS. 



has close to the grip a hook of wood, stone (Chibcha), or bone 
(Quito), at an angle of 90 degrees. Near the upper end the shaft 
broadens into a small disk handle (see pi. iv, fig. ^51)) ; in using, the 
right hand grasps this disk, and the forefinger the side hook there 
found, the spear, as usual, being set against the upper hook. These 
are abundant in collections," a number being in the Leipzig Museum, 
showing that at one time the spear sling was widely dispersed 
and much used (see pi. iv, fig. 40). The typical form of this hook 
is a small straight base Avith a fluke joined to it by means of a 
slanting neck seldom running directh^ upright. The whole was fas- 
tened to the end of the shaft by lashing in twine. Besides these 
plain examples, still others more decorated occur, many having 
bird forms, for example the hook of the arrow slings of the Ozonanes, 
now in Rome (see pi. iv, fig. 41). In the areas of these hooks there 
is a means of deciding the former distribution of spear slings. Some 
were found in Colombia, in Boyoca, and in Chile, on the borders of 
Ecuador; in Ecuador, in Culpi on the Kiobamba, and in Azognes. 
It is from this area that Reiss brought the similar half-modern 
example from guano on the liiobamba. This ancient pattern seems 
to be that found in Quito, now in Rome.'' 

The third type is the Brazilian. It is still used in the chase, in 
tortoise-catching, and in war ^ among the peoples of the Magda- 
lena and Amazon river district: (1) By the Tecunas, Cocamas, Omi- 
bos, Campevas, Sorimoes; (2) by the Cauca and Patyagora stocks, 
and the Paez; (3) by the Canamaris, Purupurus, Paumari. It is 
still in use among the peoples of the upper Xingu and Araguaya; 
and (4) by the Aueto, Kamayura, Trumai, Suya, Karaya. 

The spear slings of these four groups are of the male type, ^^itli a 
hole or pocket for the forefinger in the center of the under side. The 
first group shows quite a broad, thick shaft, flat above and arched 
below. It broadens perceptibly in the middle, and there is a good 
grip for the hand. On the under side of the middle is a rectangular 
cavity for the forefinger. A hook is attached to the upper side of 
the outer end (see pi. iv, fig. 42). This type was in use for tortoise 
harpoons,*^ among the Tecunas,'^ Cocamas,^ and Coiiibos.^ Perhaps 
the type of the Campevas or Omaguas and Sorimoes (in Teffe-Ega ■") . 
Stolpe '^ reports of these that their spear slings had a finger caN'ity. 
Spix and Martins *" report that this type was similar to that of the 

«Uhle: Intern. Arch., I, p. 209. 
6 Stolpe: Intern. Arcli., Ill, pp. 234-238. 

c Karl V. d. Stelnen : Unter den Naturvolkern Centralbrasiliens ; Ulile : Midli. 
Wiener Anthroii. (Jesell.. XVII, after Oviodo. 

(^ Bastian : Verliandlungen der Berliner Anlhrop. Gesellschaft, ISS-l, p. 203. 
'' V. Spi.Y und Martins: lieise in Brasilien, 1S31, 111, pp. 1024, 1187, 1193. 
f Examples discovered, now in Berlin. See ligure. 
9 Alason : Smithsouiau report, pt. 2, 1884, p. 279. 



SLING CONTRIVANCES FOR PROJECTILE WEAPONS. 685 

Tecunas. Still, (he latter also mention a tj^roove or a cross piece, 
and isolated examples are found amonjif old Indians of these tribes, 
Avlu) use theui in lishini^. The tyi)e of this class is not yet determined. 

The second _iii'()U|) embraces a type of which two examples wcri' 
found in huacas, at Manizales, in soutliern Antioquia, now in tiie 
Copenhagen Museum.^ They have the inner end thin and Hat. with 
broad center piece as grip, in which is the finger hole and i)ointed end. 
'I'he outer end is like a staff, and terminates in a knob with a scroll, 
into the uppei- surface of which a short, narrow groove is cut for the 
insertion of the hook (missing). A band passing across this held the 
hook still more finnly « (see p\. iv, figs. 43a and 43b). This, accord- 
ing to Bahnson, is the type of the Cauca spear sling. Uhle suggests 
that sling sticks with a groove probably existed in the Cauca Val- 
lev, and were in use among the Cauca tribes, and certainly in 
Antiocpiia, in the Aburra Valley opposite (according to Cieca, Rob- 
h'do), to the south in Anna (according to Cie^a), in the district of 
Ori, Cartama (on the left bank of the Cauca opposite Anna), Pozo 
to the south, among certain peoples related to the population of 
Anna (according to Robledo), Quimbaya, opposite Carthage (accord- 
ing to Ciega), and among the Pantagora tribes, on the upper Cauca 
and Magdalenian valley (according to Piedratuta) ; also by the Paez 
in the mountainous countries between these two rivers.'' 

In the third group the hole for the forefinger is placed in a space 
adjoining the grip. The shaft is flat like a ruler, broadish at each 
end and narrower in the midle. The hole for the forefinger, on the 
back, is between two cross bars. A small groove is supposed to have 
existed in some examples. The hook for the spear end is a tooth- 
shaped bone attached to the extreme end of the shaft (see pi. iv, 
fig. 44). In former times it was emploj^ed among the Purupurus 
(two examples in Vienna), Canamaris (a few examples still used 
in fish and turtle catching on the Jurua River in 1867 were en- 
countered by Chandless), and by the Paumaris on the Upper Purus.*" 
The fourth subclass is still in use. The shaft is a delicate rod (on 
the Araguaya it is angular in section), with broad flat handle in- 
curved on both sides. Near the place where the grip changes into 
the shaft is a hole for the forefinger. Toward the upper end the 
shaft tajiers to a point, where is lashed obliquely a small hook of 
wood or. among the Karaya, of bone (see pi. iv, fig. 45). It 
formerly ser\'ed as a fighting weapon only, but is now mostly used 
in sport, and as such is very popular. The spear sling dance, called 
" yauari,'' also shows this, in which the wounding and death of a 

a According to Bahnson ; Intern. Arch. 11, pp. 217-227. 

6 All of these statements by Uhle: :Mitth. Wiener Anthrop. Gesellschaft, 
XVII, pp. 107-114. 

c Ehrenreich : Beitriige zur Volkerkunde Brasiliens, p. 51. 



636 SLING CONTRIVANCES FOR PROJECTILE WEAPONS, 

warrior with one of these weapons is ])ortraYed." Spears are not 
thrown Avith these, but a light arrow with a dull head for stiumino-. 
Instead of a point, a heavy stone or piece of wood is attached with 
cords and gum, or merely wax balls or tucum nuts serve as heads 
(see pi. IV, fig. 46). The shaft is often decorated at the upper 
hook with bunches of gay feathers. There is a smaller spear sling 
for children. Ehrenreich found such among the Karaya. This 
type, according to Karl v. den Steinen « and Doctor Ehrenreich,'' 
is used among the Suya, Trumai. Kamayura, AucUT) on the Xingu, 
and by the Karaya on the Araguaya. In conclusion, there is still 
another spear sling from Brazil, of mixed type, wliich does not fit 
into this scheme and has nothing in Cjommon with the American 
spear slings. The shaft is flat on the upper side and half round 
below. It has a grooA^e running the whole distance on the upper side, 
l)Ounded by narrow lath-like borders. The outer end is flat and 
oblong and covered Avith a neat braid of cotton cords, which holds 
the peg firmly to the end of the grooA'e. There is no distinct grij). 
The outer end of the shaft is decorated Avith tAvo bunches of human 
hair (see pi. iv, fig. 47). According to Bahnson,'" after comparison 
with two illustrations in the Copenhagen Museum, one may assume 
that it Avas indigenous to the tribes of the Tupi nation. 

Thus, in Central and South America are three restricted areas of 
the distribution of the spear sling. The Mexican type extends from 
Utah to Panama ; the second is indigenous to Colombia, Ecuador, 
and Peru; the third has been and still is used, in part, in Colombia, 
eastern Peru, northern and eastern Brazil. Each of the three types 
is in itself a complete unit, and the third in contradistinction to the 
other tAvo. But betAveen these three types themseh^es no relationship 
is discoA^erable ; each is distinctly foreign to the other. A counnon 
prototype can not here be thought of. But a relationship betAveen 
the shafts of the Eskimo and those of American type might be con- 
sidered, as Mason suggests. Both are of the mixed type, and in the 
gi'ip occurs here one or tAvo, there one, finger hole. But all connect- 
ing links between the most southerly Eskimo shafts (Sitka) and the 
most northerly Mexican types (Utah) fail. 

II. Projectile Slings and Thongs. 

Another means oi increasing tlie distance of flight and accuracy of 
aim is the projectile sling or thong. 

Two principles are distinguished, the first serving to strengthen 
the propulsion. Small cords are loosely attached to the spear or 

o Karl V. d. Steinen : Unter den Naturvolkern Centralbrasiliens, first edition, 
p. 231 et seq. 

b Doctor Ehrenreicli : Reitrage zur A'olkerkunde Brasiliens, 1891, pp. 19 and 51. 
c Bahnson, op. cit.. Intern. Arch., 11, ])ii. 217-227. 



SI.ING CONTRIVANCES FOR PROJECTILE WEAPONS. 637 

siiiiill loops iiiv (i<i^h(ly t'asteiiod. Tlu* socoiid assists the rotation and 
the ('(Milcr of <>r;ni(y by means of a lonovr cord wound around the 
spear, sottino- i( in rotation when released. 

The first tyi)e, whieh is used in war as well as the chase, is in two 
liToups — ((t) a lhrowin<2: strap loosel}^ attached to the spear; and (h) 
a cord fastened to the spear. 

The first p-oup is found in New Caledonia, New Hebrides, and 
New Zealand, with a variety in New Z(>aland and Hawaii." 

The projectile thon<x is a short cord braided from cocoa liber or bat 
hairs, which has at one end a loop and at the other a knot, and which 
is called in New (luinea ■■* sii)p " (see pi. iv, fig. 40). The spear 
belonging to this, from 3 to 4 meters in length, has a hook back of the 
center of gravity, finel}^ carved from the shaft, and usually represent- 
ing a man's head; the spear also is beautifully ornamented witli 
Avrappings of hair and feather tufts. In use the loop is thrust over 
the thumb '' or little finger,^" while the knot is placed back of the hook 
on the s])eai'. In throwing, the spear, grasped by the left hand near 
the point, draws the cord tightly toward the right. The releasing 
is accomplished as with the ordinary spear except that the cord 
assists the final rotation and the knot releases itself readily from the 
knob, so that by this '"'' the force of the throw is nuich increased.'' '' 
Forster (Vol. II, pp. '220 and 304) suggests that the projectile thong, 
after the knot Avas fastened back of the knob, was wrapped around 
the spear (see pi. iv, fig. 49). 

A subclass, which shows the combination of the shaft and the pro- 
jectile thong, occurs in New Zealand and Hawaii. Schurtz reports, 
in Urgeschichte der Kultur, that a simple wooden spear fastened to 
the snare with the aid of a stick was used in New Zealand, which 
released at the proper instant when thrown. This was called " ko- 
taha," and the spear used in connection was called "" kopere."" 

The second group shows a small leather loop fastened to the spear. 
It appears in Togo and in India. Numerous spears from Togo are 
found in the Leipzig Museum, 1.8 meters in length, with lanceolate 
iron j)oint and a long iron spud. About 20 centimeters back of the 
center of gravity there is a small leather loop about 4 centimeters in 
length (see pi. iv, fig. 50). No literature on these spears is at hand 
and about their use nothing is known. Egerton (Handbook of In- 
dian Arms, p. 12, pi. 2, fig. 6; and p. 79, pi. 72, figs. 72 and 75) gives 
numerous illustrations of spears from India which also have a loop 

o New Caledonia : Forster, Waltz, Schurtz. New Hebrides : Meinlcke, Eck- 
hardt, Forster, Gray (Some Notes on the 1'annese. Intern. Arch., VII, p. 225 f.). 
New Zealand : Bastian. New Zealand and Hawaii : Schurtz, Doctor Arning. 

6 Waitz : Anthrop. der Naturvolker, VI, .597 et seq. 

<■ Eckhardt : Der Archipel der Xeu-IIebrideii. Verhandlungen des Vereins for 
naturw, Unterhultuug zu Hamburg, 1877, Vol. IV. 



638 SLING CONTRIVANCES FOR PROJECTILE WEAPONS. 

around the shaft. In the spear on i)age I'l (next to fig. 1) the long 
loop is shown quite near the point, while in the spears of the Dravida 
and Taniuls. on page 79 (figs. 2 and '■)), (juite broad flat loops are 
found at about the center of the spear. 

The second type of projectile noose aids the spear in attaining a 
forward rotary motion. AVe come u])on it in the roller straps of the 
Greeks and Romans. The sjK^ar thong seen with this is called " hasta 
amentata." 

The thong spear was originally in use in (Treek gvnniasinms, then 
it became a hunting weapon of the northern hunting peoples (^Etol- 
ians, Acarnanians, Locrians, Thessalians, 'Jlii-acians, Scythians, etc.), 
until it was finally adopted as the universal projectile weapon of the 
peltasts. It was also sometimes employed by horsemen. Among the 
Romans it was first adopted through Pyrrhus, and from then on was 
the standard Aveapon of the light armed, who carried five to seven. 

The tragula of the Gauls seems also to have beeu such a strap spear, 
according to Caesar." It is pictured by numerous writei-s, as Avell as 
in plastic and jjictorial illustrations, i. e., in the vase pictures of the 
British Museum; bronze disk picture of ^Egina, in Berlin; P^truscan 
vase (illustrated by Hamilton III, 33) ; pictures on vases copied by 
O. Jahn, Millingen ; grave pictures from Paestum, copied by Springer 
(Kunstgeschichten I, p. 115) ; and the slaughter of Alexander, in 
mosaic. The spear, upon Avhich the strap was buttoned, was probably, 
with the point, about 4 feet long and but a finger breadth in diameter. 
The point was usually extremely long, thin, and fine, so that it bent 
after the first throw, which made it impossible to use it a second time. 
The thong was narrow, cut from leather, at the most an ell in length, 
and the ends were usually sewed, buttoned, or buckled together. 
The strap was tightly fastened to the spear by means of a single or 
double Avrapping, back of the center of gravity, therefore at different 
parts of the spear, according to the weight of the iron point. In 
throwing, the noose was drawn taut, Avherel)v the rotation was caused, 
the stra]) unwinding itself and revolving the spear lengthwise. Tlie 
strap remained hanging to the spear, the more seriously injtu-ing 
the wounded. 



a Caesar : De bello Gallico, V, cap. 48. 



MATERIALS USED TO WRITE UPON BEFORE IIIK 
INVENTION OF rRINTING.« 



l'..V Al.liKKT MaIRK. 

Jjilirariiiii <if the T'liircrKil ii of I'lnin. 



The subject treated here is not new; it is to be found, indeed, in 
many works, or scattered in special reviews, in nionoii:rai)hs. and notes 
upon the history of writing and upon the methods and materials used 
for that purpose. But a synthetic presentation of this knowledge in 
a definitive form has thus far not been attempted. It is at once 
curious and instructive; connected, on the one hand, Avith the history 
of the evolution of languages and of writing, and, on the other, with 
a portion of human industry. It is, in a word, a contribution to the 
sociological history of mankind. 

The patient research of linguists and the comparative study of the 
most ancient styles of Avriting ha\e led to the enunciation of the idea 
that certain signs or rudimentary drawings of a kind still used 
l)y the uncivilized of our day were employed at the very origin of 
writing — pictograi)hic Avriting. 

First let us have a definition of writing; the one Monsieur Philippe 
Berger gives: '' It is the art of fixing the word by conventional signs. 
traced l)V the hand, which are termed characters. Characters may 
represent ideas or sounds. We term ideograi^hic Avriting such as is 

i used to give us the ideas directly ; phonetic writing, such as expresses 
by characters the sounds of the word. Writing differs from design 
in that it is inseparable fi-om language. If, in ideographic writing, 

[ the characters are pictures of certain ideas or certain objects, they 
are recalled to the mind under the form which they assume in speech; 
that is to say, through the medium of the word. All s^-stems of 
Avriting which were in the beginning purely ideographic became, by 
degrees, syllal)ic. The distinction between alphabetic and non- 
alphabetic writing is the onl}' one which corresponds with historic 
reality." '' 

" Traiisl.itt'd, liy iKMiiiissidu. from Revue Scientifique, Paris, August 13-20, 1904. 
& Ilistoire de rOcriture dans rautiquitO. Taris, 1801. Introduct., pji. XIII, XV. 

639 



640 MATERIALS TO WRITE UPON BEFORE INVENTION OF PRINTING. 

We can not here relate the history of the evohition of the various 
styles of writing; the aim of these pages is to make known the 
materials that have been used to write upon. 

In giving the history of the materials and processes which have 
brought down to us the annals and ideas of humanity, this description 
of the methods adopted l)y man to develop the expression of an idea 
and to make that idea penetrate simultaneously the intelligence of 
the Inunan species becomes a historj' of humanity itself. 

Do we not return to the source of this humanity, of its beginnings 
and its j^rogress in civilization, in seeking the manner in which 
thought came to be fixed in tangible form and transmitted through 
the ages? Before the first peoples with a history — the Egyptians, 
Assyrians, Medes, Persians, Chinese, Hindoos, American Indians — 
research is little more than hypothesis. An impenetrable obscurity 
rests over those distant times in which man was concerned only with 
his material wants. 

Man looked round about him. From the first nature otfered him 
products which asked only to be utilized. "Stones and marble, metals, 
wood, the bark of trees and their leaves, the skins of animals and 
their intestines, tissues, and artificial products of all kinds contempo- 




FiG. 1. Wampum. 

raneously or successively received the impress of sculpture, painting, 
or the inscription of human actions and thoughts. In every case 
Avhere it is possible to cite an example we shall do so. Some figures 
which complement the facts adduced, and will perhaps be helpful to a 
comprehension of the subject, have been scattered through the text. 

But before starting in on any methodical plan we must speak of 
some mnemonic devices which bear a distant relation to writing. 
They Avere, however, intended to perpetuate the memory of the deeds 
or condition of an individual. 

AVampum (fig. 1), a sort of collar or belt, made of different col- 
ored shells arranged in a definite order and presenting geometrical 
figures, signs which Avere all symbolic and significant, was utilized 
by a part of the Indian tribes of the United States, Canada, and 
Central America. According to Stearnes, wampum was employed 
as money by the aborigines of the Carolinas, Virginia, etc." 

The Peruvians and the greater part of the different peoples of 

a Smithsonian Report, Museum, 1887, p. 304 ot seq. 



MATERIALS TO WHITE UPON BEFORE INVENTION OF PRTN'I'ING. 



641 




Fio. 2. Australian message stick. 




orrrTZ^^.. 






^^g^'"^ 



Fu; 



Bird mouud uuar Milwaukee. 



South America used grains of corn or variously colored [)el)l)les, 
which Ihev arran«2:e(l in a certain order, for tJie purpose of express- 
ing certain ideas, trans- 
mitting" nu"^sa<ies. or 
recount iiiii' (he li'real 
deeds of their nation. 
Later these same [)eo- 
j)les em[)loyed strings 

of varvinir lengths and colors, in which they made knots and loops 
at greater or less intervals. This is called the '' quippo."' 

We must mention likewise the 
small sticks of the Scythians, the 
stick of memory ; " stick messages " 
of the Australians, means employed 
to correspond at a distance. 
(Fig. 2.)« 

What shall we say of the mounds 
(fig. ^^),'' raised burial jDlaces, of 
North Auierica, abounding particu- 
larly in Ohio and AVisconsin, and 
the outline of Avhose base assumes 
the shape of an animal — quadruped, bird, serpent, lizard, or turtle? 
It is permissible to suppose that these forms designated the totem 
of the tribe or the individual 
Avho reposed in these tombs. 

The strangely shaped rocks, 
with a length of more than 12 
kilometers, which project 
from the waters of the Nani- 
Ou, in Upper Laos (fig. 4),'" 
and the trees and bushes cut 
in the shape of animals which 
one sees on both banks of the 
river, are indeed rather diffi- 
cult to explain. 

After this digression, some- 
what beside the subject, but Fjo- 4. Rocks bewn in the form of animals and 
, 1 •, 1 , the human head in Nam-Ou. 

nevertheless necessary, let us 

return to the materials upon which writing has been done. 

oRoth (W. E.) : Ethnological Studies Among the North-West-Centrul Abo- 
ligines. Brisbane, London, 1897, S°. pi. xviii. No. 32. 

^Lapliam (I. A.) : The Antiquities of Wisconsin (Sniithsoniun Contributions 
to Knowledge, 1885, 4°, Vol. VII ''). 

c Neis (P.): Voyage duns lo llaut-Laos (Tour du Monde, 1885,' pp. 51 
and 83) 

SM 1004 41 




(»42 MATERIALS TO WEITE UPON BEFORE INVENTION OF PRINTING. 




Fk;. 5. Designs on rock at Tegneby, BohuslUn, Sweden. 



KOCKS, CRUDE AND PLANED, BIT NOT DETACHED. 

The rui:»estriiie inscriptions, i^robably the most ancient of all, are 
found in nearly every ])ortion of the f^lobe, more jiarticnlarly in Asia 

and Europe. Those 
im^ ? ■ ~~— ^— -"^^ ^ that belong to the pre- 

historic p e r i o d a r e 
traced or engraxcd di- 
rectly upon the rouL'h 
face of unplaned rock. 
We may name as ex- 
amples the cup rocks of 
Hohenstein, at Swan- 
sen ( Ge r m a n Ilol- 
stein) ;" the sculptured 
rocks of Tegneby. in 
Ijohuslaii (fig. 5),'' and those of the " Eainsundsberget " Mountain, in 
Sodermanland (Sweden). Some of these inscriptions were known 
in the seventeenth century, for they were copied in 1627.'' 

The designs and figures engraved upon the granite masses on the 
banks of the Yuba River in New Mexico are to be classed in the cate- 
gory of pictographic writing (fig. G).'' 

In central Asia, Egypt, Assj'ria, and Persia, on the other hand, the 
rocky surfaces intended to re- 
ceive inscriptions were care- 
fully planed and prepared; the 
inscri lotions therefore stood out 
very distinctly on the body of 
the rock. Such is the case with 
the famous inscription of Be- 
histoun in the pass that sepa- 
rates Persia from Mesoj^ota- 
mia,'' the edicts of Agoka, en- 
graved upon the rock at (lirnar, 
in Guzerat (India). '^ We nuist 
not neglect to mention the subterranean temples cut into the rocks," 

« Zeitschrift t'. Etlniologie, Vol. IV, 1872. pi. 14. 

^'Montelius (Oscar). La Suede prt'liistoriqiie, trad. J. H. Krauier. Stockboliu, 
s. d., 8°, p. 04 seq. 

c Revue ureheol., 1S75, p. 137 scq. 

^ Siinonln (L.). De Washington a San Francisco (Tour du Monde, 1874. ]>. 240). 

c Morgan (.7. do). Mission scientifiquo on Porso (T. IV). 

f Berger (Phil.). Op. cit, p. 224. 

.•^Perrot (G.), Chipioz. Hist de I'art dans Tantiquite : I. Egypte, 1SS2, p. 411 
seq. 




Fui. (!. Fragment of a hieroglyphic inscrip- 
tion made by California Indiana on a granite 
rock. 



MATERIALS TO WRITE UPON BEFORE INVENTION OF PRINTING. fi48 

ilu' tombs of the same kind, so numerous in K<>:y])t, in lower Asia, and 
India. Mosl of these monuments are co\ered with inscriptions of 
greater or less lengtli. 

DETACHED ROCKS AND MEGALITHIC MONUMENTS. 

DKSKiNS, CUPS, A.NI) liASINS, PICTORIAr. AND SYMBOLIC INSCRIPTIONS. 

These monuments are more inimerous than the preceding^. We 
lind them scattered over every part of the earth; man has erected 




Fi(i. T. Carved rock near Fal- 
ko])ing, "West Gothland, 
Sweden. 




Fig. 8. Dolmen. Gavr "Inis, in 
Baden. 




Fig. !t. Mane Liid dolmen in Loc- 
mariaker. 



megaliths wherever he has found stone. Selecting at random 
among the numerous representations of monuments of this kind, we 
.shall call attention to a few, by way of example. Ballersten de 
Rantoen (fig. 7)," near Falkoping, in West Gothland (Sweden) ; one 
of the dolmen stones of Gavr 'Inis, in Baden (fig. 8)''; another of 
the Mane Lud (fig. 9)," in Locmariaker; the Dead Man's of Vanga 

a Montelius (Oscar). Der Orient und Europa, uberg v. Metsdorf. Stockholm, 
1896, 8°, p. 28. 

b Diction, archeol. de la Gaule. Atlas. 
c Ibid. 



644 MATERIALS TO WEITE UPON BEFORE INVENTION OF PRINTING. 



(fig. 10)," in West Gothland, which presents runic characters of the 
third century of our era ; the upright stone of St. Dogniael, in Peni- 
brokesliire (Wales), ui)on which are found tAvo inscriptions, one in 
Ogham, the other in Latin characters; ^ that which we here reproduce 
(fig. 11) is from an article on the " Oghama inscriptions at Kenfegge, 
in Glamovganshire ; " ^ finally, the numerous scidptured dolmens of 
Ireland (fig. 12).'' Abbe Domenech, in the curious account of his 
sojourn of several years among the Indians of North America, speaks 
of tombstones bearing pictographic characters (fig. 13)" and of strange 
inscriptions upon flint stones (fig. 14).'' To the cliff dwellers, or 
inhabitants of caves, of Arizona and New Mexico are attributed the 
designs and pictorial engravings foinid upon the rocks borne to the 




Fj(i. 10. Dead man's name. Rock with runic characters found at Vanga, West Gothland, 
Sweden. Height, 3 feet 5 inches; width, s feet. 

banks of the San Juan (fig. 15 ).'^ Quite recently there were brought 
to light the stones of St. Aubin Baubigne (Deux Sevres) (fig. 16), 

a Stephens (Dr. G.)- Handbook of the old northei'n runic monuments of Scan- 
dinavia and England. Edinbui-«h, 1884, fol. 

6 Brash (Rich. R.). The oi;liani inscribed stones of Wales. Archtcologia 
Canibrensis, o° scries. Vol. XV, JS(J!), p. 15.5. 

c Archjeologia Canibrensis, 184G, Vol. I, p. 412. 

f^ Borlase (William Copcland). The dolmens of Ireland. London, 1807, 3 vol. 
8°, fig. 

e Domenech (Abbe). Seven years" residence in the .crent deserts of North 
America. London, 1860, 8°, 2 vol. 

/ Nadaillac (Marquis de). L,Ameri(]ut' preliistoriquc I'aris, 1882, 8°. 



Smithsonian Repoit, 1904.— Maire. 



Plate I. 



\ 



vyf\}- 



; / 



/ 



\ A V 



/ 



Clay Tablet with the Prehistoric Linear Script. 



Smithsonian Report, 19C4, — Maire. 



Plate II. 



1 




Cuneiform Tablet of Clay Found at Lachi 



MATERIALS TO WRITE UPON BEFORE INVENTION OF PRINTING. 0)45 



upon Avhicli inscriptions nw (lislin^'nislicd wliicli have formed (he 
subject of a coninmnication to I'Acadeiiiie des Inscriptions et Belles- 












Fui. 11. Inscription in Latin Fi(i. l:i. St. Mouashan's stone. Fig. 14. Inscription graven on 
and Ogham. St. Dognmel, Ireland. rock by North American In- 

Pembrokeshire. dians. 

Lettres, and of which the jonrnal FKchiir reproduced three designs 
in its issue of the 1st of April, 1004." 





Pig. 15. ( 'arved rocks on banks of San Juan 
River. Arizona. 






Fig. 16. One of the carved 
blocks at St. Anbin Ban- 
liigne (Deux-Sevresl. 



a Communication of Doctors Capitau, Breuil, and Cbarbouueau, session of the 
nth of March. 1904. 



646 MATERIALS TO WRITE UPON BEFORE INVENTION OF PRINTING. 



ROCKS CUT INTO TABLES OK lU'ILDING STONES. 

It requires no great effort to find inscriptions of this kind. As 
civilization developed, man began to prepare with care the material 
upon which he wished to write or carve. Throughout the Orient, 
from Egypt to India, monuments constructed of dressed stones are 
covered with carvings or pictures, explained and commented upon by 
inscriptions (fig. 17). The Greeks and the Romans employed stone 
tables for the purpose of engraving laws, jiublic and commemorative 
records. The funeral cippi and stela^ of nearly all nations are cov- 
ered with inscriptions, and likewise the coiRns of stone and wood. 

Are not our modern cemeteries like an immutable obituary, or, 
better still, like a huge biographical dictionary ? 

Inscriptions upon stones of all kinds — marble, sandstone, granite, 
slate — are so frequently met with around us that it seems superfluous 
to cite examples. 




Fio. 1". Brii-k from 
Er ech . ( Perrot and 
Chepie, Histoire de 
rArt. Paris.) 




1)^. Babyloniaa 
tablet. 



hieroglyphif 



The baked earths deserve special mention on account of their 
l)rej)aration and their antiquity. In ancient times the Persians, 
Medes, and Assyrians were about the only nations that customarily 
made use of clay, either dried or baked, for writing upon (fig. 18)", 
inscriptions of this kind are known which date back to more than 
four tliousand vears before Christ. These countries were so poor in 
rocks that all their structures were built of brick. 

Ceramics were still in their infancy when designs and symbolic 
signs were employed for decoration. Ev^eryone is familiar with the 
geometrical designs, the crossed, dotted, or concentric lines which 
ornament prehi.storic pottery.'' The ceramics discovered at Hissarlik 
and Mj'cena' present strange decorations; one finds colored and 
concave designs, swastikas, and inscriptions in archaic characters 

" Schell (V.) O. P. Notes d'epigraphie et d'archeologie assyriennes. Reprint 
froin : liecueil de tr;ivaiix rolaHfs a la philolosip et A I'arclu'-olnL'ie ('iiypticiino 
et assyrieiiiie. 4°, t. XXII. 

6 Consult the collection: Materiaux ])(nu- I'histoii-e in-iniitive tie rhonime. 



I 



MATERIALS TO WRITE UPON P.EEORE INVENTION OE PRINTING. 



(U7 



(fi<js. 19-20) ;" the same remarks aiv applicable to the ceramics of 
Central and South Amei-ica (lig. 21) ;'' peculiarity of shapes and de- 
signs, paintings and symbolic characters. 

In Grecian anticpiity fragments of pottery -were utilized as ma- 
terials upon which to write accounts and observations (fig. 22) ;'" the 
beautiful (Jrecian cei-amics of the purest period always bear inscrip- 
tions explanatory of the ligures. 



It can not be demonstrattHl that ii'on never received engraved 
inscriptions in anti<iuity. The great dec()m})()sition which this metal 
nnist have suffered undei- the influence of the oxygeil of the atmos- 
phere and the earth is the only reason why none has come down to us. 




Fic. I'.l. Fiisiiiol.' 
with archaic in- 
scriptions. 




Pig. 20. F u s a 1 o 1 < 
with archaic in 
scrlptions. 




Fig. 21. Bolivian vase. (Castelnau Pig. 22. Pottery fragment 
Exped. do l;i pavtio ccntrale de with Greek inscription. 
I'Ameriqiie dn Snd. Paris, 18S2.) 



All the other metals, including the precious metals, pure or alloyed, 
are found with inscriptions. There have been recovered in Egypt, 
Assyria, Central Asia, and Greece tables or placques of bronze which 
were covered with them. Hannibal had lengthy Greek and Punic 
inscriptions engraved describing the state of his army and his 

« Scblieniann. Ilios, Ville et Pays des Troyons. trad, de I'miiilais par Mine. 
Egger. I'aris, ISS."., gr. H\ 

^ Castlenau (Fr. de). Exiu'ditioii dniis la partie centrale de I'Aiiu'ricino du 
Sud. Paris. 185-'. 8° et 4". atlns. i)i. 11, V2. M\. U, IC. 

cWilken (T'lr.). Griechische Osti-aka aiis Aegypten u. Xubien, Liepzig. 1889, 
8°. Vol. II, pi. 1 to 3. 



648 MATERIALS TO WRITE UPON BEFORE INVENTION OF PRINTIJ^G. 

series of exploits." In Rome the use of columns and of tablets of 
bronze for inscribing laws followed that of wood. AVe find in all the 
museums of Europe inscriptions upon metals (fig. 2?}). One of the 
most remarkable is the famous bronze tablet preserved in the Museum 
of Lyons, containing the address delivered in the year 48 by the 
Emperor Claudius.^ 

Lead beaten thin and reduced to leaves served the same purpose. 
Job laments his inability to write a discourse upon sheets of lead. In 
Greece lead thus prepared was quite frequently used. Suetonius 
terms these leaves of lead pluml)ea charta ; '^ tablets were also made 
of it, which were employed all through the Middle Ages. 




Fig. 'li'i. Gallic inscription in dotted characters on 
bronze found near Dijon. (Diet. Arch, de la Gaule.) 

It seems unnecessary to cite coins and medals. They always bore 
a legend, either symbolic or explained bv letters. 

WOOD, BARK, LEAVES. 

Wood as a material used to engrave and write upon is perhaps more 
ancient than stone, but there is no trace of it left from the prehis- 
toric period. It was split into thin boards, upon which were traced 
in different colored inks the chai-acters of the language. The Egyp- 
tians must have proceeded in this manner, if one may judge by a syca- 
more board discovered in 18:57 in the lliird ])yi-ainid of Memphis, 
which, according to the Egyptologists, dates back more than five 
thousand years. 

The ancient laws of Solon and of Draco were likewise traced u])on 
wooden tables. They were called *' axones."' These tallies joined in 
the shape of quadrangular prisms and crossed by an axis, were first 
set up perpendicularly in the citadel, where, revolving by the slight- 

oPolyhius, III, P,Vi. 

& Allmer (A.) et Bissard (P.). Musee de Lyon. Iiis( riiitiinis .•inti(|ii('s. Tiyoii, 
1888 seq. gr. 8°, t. 1. \k 58 seq. and 1 plate. 
<^ Suetoniu.s. Twelve Ctesars. Nero, C 20. 



Smithsonian Report, 1 904.— Wlaire. 



Plate III. 




>"* --"■■;•••• 



Babylonian Votive Tablet of the Sun-god at 
SiPPARA, Engraved on Alabaster. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904 — Maiie. 



Plate IV. 




Arabic School Exercise Inscribed on Board. 

Fnun Philippine Islands. 



MATERIALS TO WRITE ITPON BEFORE INVENTION OF PRINTING. 



049 



est efl'ort, tlicv i)irsonted successively the entire code of laws to the 
eyes of tlie beholders. (Fig-. 24.)" 

Ill Rome the laws were written iijjon hoards of oak. which were 
exhibited in the Forum. The word '' album " ])robably ori^ifinated in 
the Koman custom of insci-ibing in black ink upon tablets of wood, 
painted white, their annals or daily hai)])('uinos.'' 

St. Jci'onic informs ns also that small boai'ds and cnbes of wood 
were employed to en<>rave the alphabet ii])on. to teach the children to 
read. 

The tablets in use amonj^: the Komans and throu_i>-hout the middle 
ages were made of wood. They were likewise made of lead, ivory, 







Fig. 24. An attempt at a restoration of the 
tables of Solon (Azores) from Geraiul's Fio. 25. Wood ta,blet with Greek iii- 
descriptiun. scription. 

parchment, and even of the bark of trees. In the time of the poet 
Fortunatus not onl}' were tablets of ash used, but small, smooth rods 
as well.'' 

The Eg-y})tians ol)served the custom of })utting " tablai " (fig. 25)'^ 
upon their coffins. These tablets contained the names and attributes 
of the deceased person. All that have thus far been collected seem 
to date from the Roman occupation, since the inscriptions are in 
Greek. 



a Geraud (11.) Essai sur les livres dang I'antiquite, Paris, 1840, 8°, pp. 19-20. 

b (ieraud, op. cit., p. 2u. 

c Ibid., p. 21. 

"J Le Blauc (Edui.), Revue arclieulos:., 1874. ji. 242 et seq. 



650 MATERIALS TO WRITE UPON BEFORE INVENTION OF PRINTING. 

Shavings of Avood, taken olt' by the phine, were also utilized. 
Theophrastus cites nn example of it," and Paneirot says that the 
Lombards joined these shavings by means of glue and thus manufac- 
tured a sort of paper.'' The idea of writing on wood is not lost in 
c>ur days. Entire books are Avritten on leaves of wood resembling 
thin veneer. Visiting cards of Avood are sometimes seen. In Cliina 
paper and envelopes are used where the jjaper is exceedingly thin 
and is covered with a pellicle of wood. The school primers of the 
p]ast — Algeria, Turkey, and other Moslem regions — are made of 
snuill boards (pi. iv), recalling in form the Egyptian tablai, upon 
which the letters or sentences from the Koran are written. The 
inscriptions, which are so curious, but which have not yet been de- 
ciphered, discovered on Easter Island, are engraved upon wood. 
AVood is even at the present day employed in China for engraving 
characters in relief, which are subsequently printed. Our xylo- 
graphic plates of the fifteenth centurv were also of wood. 

Finally, wood is still employed to make blackboards, in use in 
schools. 

In the remotest times the ancients used the outer bark of trees for 
writing, but the numerous inequalities and the frequently jxreat 
fragility of the bark caused it to be abandoned, with the exception 
of that of the cherry, the linden, and the birch. The}' sought to 
utilize the inner bark, or liber, of the tree, and employed by prefer- 
ence that of the pine, the fir, and the linden.'' The Greeks and the 
Ronums wrote extensive works upon the prepared bark of trees. 

The leaves of trees have also l^een used. The Syracusans voted by 
writing on olive leaves, whence the word petalism, a synonym of 
ostracism.'' The leaves of several other trees, among them the mal- 
loAv, contributed to the same purpose. A sort of tissue was made 
from the leaA'es of a certain palm. 

In Persia, a great part of Asia, India, Indo-China, China, Borneo, 
Sumatra, even in Oceania, ]3repared leaves of trees, particularly 
of certain palms, were and are still made use of. In Malaysia they 
use the leaves of cabbage palms, dried, polished, or covered Avith a 
brilliant or gilt varnish; it is after these successiA'e preparations 
that they trace the charactei's with a pencil or engraA^e them Avith a 
A'ery fine point. Certain books, formed thus, resemble a good deal 
the slats of our Venetian blinds, oi)ening and closing in the same 
manner. In the ^laldiA'es they use the leaf of the nuikarekau, 
Avhich has a breadth of 1 foot and a length of 3 feet.'' 

« Geraud, op. cit., p. 21. 
J' Ibid. 

'' (J<'M"!Uid. op. cit., iii». Ui, 17. 
'' Ibid., p. 15. 



MATERIALS TO WRITE UPON BEFORE INVENTION OF PRINTING. 651 



l.INKN AN)) OTllKU TKXTII.KS. 



It was natural enough that textiles should he used for tlie tracin*; of 
characters with a pencil or calamite. Their flexihility and tlie facility 
of preserving them adapted them to it. Most of the " books of the 
dead " which the E<;yptians placed in the sarcopha<ri were written 
upon linen. In Greece, Italy, Rome, and the Orient textiles served 
the same {)nrpose. The Samnites had a ritual written in that 
manner, which served to regulate the order of the sacrifices before 
engaging in a Avar. 

At Rome the land records preserved among the archives were 
written ujK)n linen year by year and kept in the temple of Moneta 
at the capital," as well as the libri lintei, a list of the unigistrates. 
Textiles were used even for transcribing literary works. Martianus 
Capella designates them under the name of carbasina volumina. 
Sidonius Apollinaris wrote his poems upon pieces of linen. During 
the middle ages this custom still continued, for an abbot recom- 
mends his monks to copy the works of St. Anastasius upon their 
clothes in case paper should be lacking.'' In the Orient silk was 
utilized for the same purpose. " In France," says Geraud, " up to 
the last century, it was the practice in the universities to have those 
copies of a thesis which were intended for personages of importance 
printed on satin.'' 

We have spoken incidentally of tablets; they were made of wood, 
lead, ivory, and even parchment, and, excepting those of lead, were 
coated Avith wax, and written upon with a point or stylus. To 
preserve them, they were placed together and tied into bundles. In 
order that the writing should not be obliterated under pressure or by 
rubbing, the edges of the tablet had a slight projection to which the 
wax flowed; so that the engraved characters were not effaced when 
the tablets were pressed together. Later the tablets formed a dip- 
tych; that is to say, they were composed of two tablets united by a 
hinge. Closed, they presented two surfaces, plain or ornamented, 
but without writing; open, one could write upon both of the wax- 
covered inner surfaces. 

LEATHER, VARIOUS KINDS OF SKIN, PARCHMENT. 

With the advent of skins we enter upon a period in which writing 
becomes a more common practice; documents multiply, works of the 
ima'i^ination and historical annals assume a new form. It is no longer 
tradition alone which transmits poems, legends, and recollections. By 

a Lafaye (G.) : Article Liber, Diction des antiq. greeques et roiiiaines de 
Dareiuberg et Sagiio. Paris, Hachette, 4°. 

b Lalanne (Liid.). Curiosit<'s bibliograpliiqiies. I'aris, ISf)?. ni°, p. 10. 
c Geraud. Oi*. cit., p. -o. 



652 MATERIALS TO WRITE UPON BEFORE INVEISTTION OF PRINTING. 

the use of skin and its various preparations, manuscripts are recopied 
and circulate among all classes of ancient society. 

For a long time skins rudely prepared, scarcely tanned, were used 
for writing'. We know through documents that the Egyptians em- 
ployed them two thousand years before our era; the Ass3a'ian monu- 
ments depict scri])es writing on scrolls. The Persians recorded their 
annals upon hides, while the lonians ])repared for the same 2Jiirj)ose 
the skin of the sheep and the goat. Accoi'ding to biblical texts, the 
Hebrews were accustomed to the use of skins, and copied th«Mr law 
upon rolls of l(>:ith(>r" (])1. \). '' Tliere is preserved,"" says Lahmne,'' 




Fkj. :i6. Butfali) skin figured with designs showing a war chief in ai-tion. 

" in the library of T>i-ussels, a manuscript of the Pentateuch, which is 
believed to date back beyond the ninth century. It is written on 57 
skins sewed together, and is 3(j meters long."" 

Petrarch wore a vest of leather upon which he wrote his inspira- 
tions when on a walk. This vest, covered with wi'iling, was in 15^27 
still in Sadoleto's possession.'' 

Let us recall that the red-skin Indians wrote or i)ainted the results 
of the chase or their nuirtial exploits on the inside of the tanned 
and bleached skin of the bison (fig. 26) <^, which served them for a 

allastiug (James). A Dictionary of the Bible. Edinburgh, 1902, Vol. IV, 
art. Writing. 

6 Lalanne (Lud.). Curiosites l)ibliogr., p. 10. 

c(ieraud, op. (it., ]>\>. 9-10. 

dCatlin: North American Indians, lS:^2-1S;>.!t. Edinlmrii, 1!»(i;',, 8°. 2 vols. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904.— Maire. PLATE VI. 






it 



Fragment of Hebrew Manuscript on Parchment. 



MATERIALS TO WRITE UPON BEFORE INVENTION OF PRINTING. 653 

cloak. Ill foriiiiii islands of Polynesia, and |)arlicularly in- New 
Zealand, (lie taltooiii^ of (lie men was <r()venied by (he brilliancy of 
ilieir deeds. 'I'lie desifjns, which covered (he face and (he body, repre- 
seii(ed symbolically a description of events. P^veii the linman skin 
has incitlentally been used (o wri(e upon. Between tanned skin and 
pai-chnien( (liere was bii( a brief interval. In ordei' to diminish the 
weiuht of (he leadier, man lirst had (o thin it. Then he tried to 
bleach it — hence the orio;in of ])archment. It is possible that it was 
:\t Periiamus the im|)i()vement was made. They must have manu- 
factured it and dealt in it there, since the product derives its name 
from that ])Iace. It is believed that it was known lifteeii centuries 
before the })resen( era. 

The skin of the <>x)at, the sheep, and the ass Avas prepared by 
methods nearly identical with tluise of our own day." The first pro- 
fhictions of parchment were so defective that they were only used to 
cover books made of papyrus and tablets and for hibels. It is 
only toward the fifth century before our era that the practice of 
writino- on parchment became general. As its preparation impi'oved 
its use spread more and more. After the eleventh century this 
material entirely supplanted papyrus, which had become rare and 
poor. We know that books of importance, manuscript and printed, 
ai-e composed of parchment. ITp to the eighteenth century it was 
alwaA's used for ro^al acts and private transactions. 



It is from the stem of the Cypefits papyrus (paper rush) that 
according to Baillon, paper was manufactured. This rush, a native 
of Egypt, it is said, was very abundant up to the middle ages, but 
it has become rare and is not met with except on the marshy banks 
of streams in the far south. The root, as thick as a man's arm, 
spreads out horizontally, the stalks rise from it at right angles to 
a height of from 7 to 10 cubits '^ — that is, about 3,G to 4.5 meters. 
The slender stem, tenuous, triangular almost through its entire 
length, is terminated by an umbel comjiosed of green filaments, 
producing a most beautiful effect. But it is not in Egypt only that 
the papyrus was found, it grew in Sicily, Spain, the southern part 
of France, as far up as Avignon, in the shallo\vs of the Rhone,'^ as 
well as in the greater part of the streams of Africa and Madagascar." 

n Lafaye, Art. IMembrana., Dictiomi. dos antiquites grecques et romaines. 

6 The Greek cubit varied from city to city ; its average length was 0.43 centi- 
meters. 

cWe gathered some in 1879 near tlie sate of tlie Oullo at the l>ase of tlio 
bridge which leads from Avignon to tlie island of Karthehissc. 

^Poivre: Voyage d'un philosophe, 17G8. Bruce: A'oyage en Abyssinie, t. 
V, p. 10 et seq. 



654 MATERIALS TO WRITE UPON BEFORE INVENTION OF PRINTING. 

The use of the plant was not confined to making paper. The 
root served for fuel. From the fil)ers of the stalk, dried and plaited, 
rope was manufactured. The roofs of houses were also covered AA'ith 
them. In case of famine the lower part of the stem was used for 
food, although its nutritive value is very slight. The stems, cut 
and joined together, served to make light rafts.*^ 

The coarsest part of the papyrus was employed to make sails for 
boats or a material which the poor used for clothing. 

The most ancient Egyptian texts on papyrus extant date back to 
3580-3536 before our era.* Theophrastus speaks of it in his treatise 
on plants. Pliny copied this in part, but not altogether faithfully. 
The work of Pliny, however, possesses merit in a different direction. 
It is ta him we owe the description of the manufacture of paper. 
Numerous writers have taken up Pliny's text, translating it, inter- 
preting it, and even trying to manufacture paper.'^ Stodhart alone 
seemed to have been succeeding in his attemj^t, when, unfortunately, 
death interrupted his researches.** A bit of papyrus of his manufac- 
ture is preserved in the library of the French Institute. Bureau de 
la Malle published a long memoir on this manufacture.'' He com- 
plains of the obscurity of Pliny's text, in which opinion he is con- 
firmed by Paoli.'^ 

The following seems to have been the method in manufacturing 
paper from papyrus: 

The stalk, shortened at the top and base, was split by a sharp point 
through its entire length into very fine strips. This operation was 
generally begun in the center, and the first two central strips were 
reserved for the manufacture of paper of a superior quality. The 
succeeding layers were reserved for the manufacture of paper of an 
inferior quality. The two outside strips, composed almost exclusively 
of bark, had to be rejected. There is no question, as some writers 
have suggested, of the use of the bark; it was much too thin, com- 
posed, like most of the monocotyledons, of cells of compact tissue, 
filled with chlorophyl and perhaps with some traces of silica, 

a Were they rafts or boats? We can not determine from the texts. Even 
to-day the shore dwellers on the White Nile, the Chiliouks. construet a species 
of raft from a reed called aml)atch. (Schweinfurth : Tour du uionde, 1874, 
l.p. 287-288.) 

«- Hasting, op. cit., Vol. IV, p. 044. 

c We may mention Guilandinus, Scaliger, Caylus, de Montfaucon. de .lussieu, 
Bruce, Cyrillo, etc. 

<i Saverio Landolina Xava could only succeed in obtaining, in the eighteenth 
century, a brittle paper. Stodhart made his researches in 1834. 

e Memoire sur la fabrication du i»a))ier chez les anciens. (Acad, des Inscr. 
et P,. L. Mem. t. XXIX, 1851, p. 140 et seq. ) 

/ Paoli (C. ). Del papiro specialmente considerato come materia che ha 
servito alia scrittura. Firenze, 1878, 8°. 



MATKHIALS TO WRITE UPON BEFORE INVENTION OF PRINTING. 055 



These slips ((l)i\i'fj}/, philyne) were laid (oirether side by side 
iil)()ii an inclined (al)le. whose sMrfaee was i)len(i fully moistened, so 
that the sli[)s adhei'ed to each ollici-. Accordinii- to IMinw thev were 
dampened with Nile water, which alone could dilute tiie viscous 
liijuid oi" the crushed cells, necessary to cause the lamelhe to adiiere to 
each other." 

The layer foi'med hy these slips was termed " scheda." On top of 
the scheda a new layer of slips Avas ])laced. ci'ossing those of the 
lower one; thus a sheet, or pla.iiuhu was produced whose diameter 
in each dii-ectiou was ecpial to the length of a philyra. When it was 
sutHciently desiccated, the plagula 
Avas scpieezed in a press, which con- 
tracted e\ery part of it; then it was 
exposed to the sun {6 dry. 

A number of f)higuhe, from 10 to 
tiO, accord ijig to the })eriod, were 
joined together, then they were 
rolled, and a quire, or scapus, Avas 
formed of it. 

The (|uality of the papyrus ob- 
tained varied according to the Avidth 
of the first cuts or pliilyne. The 
best (juality was called hieratic, 
later Augustine. Subsequently there 
was the Livian, the amphitheatric, 
the Fannian, of a most remarkable 
quality, the Saitic, the Tanitic, 
then the emporetic or connnercial F"*- '^^- Fragment of Troano paper 

nianiiscript. ( De Bourbourg's Manu- 
])aper. script Troano. Paris, 1869.) 

The pai)er obtained in EgA'pt was 
unfit to receive Avriting. It Avas subjected to further processes, 
l)eating and ])olishing. Avhich imparted all the attributes required. 
In Rome certain slaves Avere charged with that Avork. 




PAPER. PROPERLY SO CALLED. 



The discoA'ery of paper assured to the '" book '' an indefinite vital- 
ity and expansion. The material par excellence had. in fact, been 
found, indestructible material, Avhich alloAvs the book to be more 
pliable, less heaA^y, to pass down the ages as AA^ell, if not better, than 
papyrus and ])archnient. 

It is to Tsai Loun, minister of agriculture in China, one hundred 



o The mere visccsity of the crushed cells should ha\-e sufficed to make the 
contiguous slips adhere to each other ; and, if water was necessary, was it 
indispensable to have the water of the Nile? 



656 MATERIALS TO WRITE UPON BEFORE INVENTION OV PRINTING. 

aiitl twenty-three yeary before our era, that the invention of paper is 
due. AVhether it was in consequence of cordial relations or through 
Chinese prisoners that paper was introduced in Samarcand is of 
little importance; the fact is certain that it did become known there 
in 751. Forty-three years later pajDer was known at Bagdad and at 
Damascus. Its employment and manufacture spread rapidly in 
Syria, Arabia, Egypt. 

Doctor Karabacek had the good fortune to recover, among the 
treasures of El Uschmunein, all the secrets of Egyptian paper 
makers." He even discovered bills, or receipts of imposts, dating 
from 950 to 103G of our era. This paper, is sometimes very thin and 
often highly glazed. 

In the twelfth century paper mills were established in Fez, Mo- 
rocco, and in Xativa, Spain, whence they spread to Valencia and 
other cities. 

In Italy paper mills existed at Fabriano from the thirteenth cen- 
tury. The collection of Prof. A. Zonghi comprises several thousand 
:-amples of pa|)er from that locality, dating from 1267 to 1750. He 
even had the j)atience to raise the filigrees from these papers, and his 
manuscript album contains more than 20,000 designs.'' According to 
a charter of the bishop of Lodeve, granted in 1189 to Kayniond de 
Popian, a paper mill was to be erected at that date in Herault, but 
this document could not be found. It is onl}^ cited in the chronology 
of the bishops of Lodeve. Some reservation must therefore be made. 

This is not the case with another document found in the cartulary 
of the monasteries of Gellone and Aniane, published by Meynial and 
the Abbe Cassan. It is beyond doubt, according to this record, that 
l^aper was known in France in 1340.^ 

Its introduction into Europe seems to coincide Avith the exodus of 
the Jews to Spain and the south of France after the Arabs liad ex- 
pelled them lirst from the north of Africa and later from the south of 
Spain. 

Paper must have been introduced into (xermany in the second half 

1 Doctor Karabacek. Das arabiscbe Papier. Eiiie bistoriscbe-antiquarische 
Untersucbung. \Yien, 1887, gr. 40. 

6 Masce rctrospectif de la cbisse 88. Fabrication du papier (Alatieres premi- 
eres, materiel, procedcs et i)roduits) a TExposition uiiiverselle internationale de 
jOOO, Jl Paris. Rapport de la Coimnissioii, d'Installation. Saint-Cloud, s. d., 
gr. 8", p. I.j-IT. 

c " L'ubbe de Saint-Guilbem donne a nouveau oens a Paul Gilles, marcband de 
Monti)ellier, originaire de Saint-Guilbem, le tenement de Rieux Cabrie " quod 
extenditur a quodam loco vocato los estregs des cols de Cazelas, usque ad pontem 
vocatum INIanafossa * * * jn quo quidem tenemento consensiit dominus 
Abbas (piod idem Paulus et sui successores possint et valeant facere et reflcere 
molendinuui et molendina, paratorum et paratoria, bladerum et bladeria. papi- 
renm et papirea, et alia quaecumque." (Cite dans Musee retrospeetif * * *, 
p. 12.) 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Maire. 



Plate VIM. 



M" * Jtaj-*- ! a»-^-#: - M 
JiJPft- rt = >iun nX'<h -1. 

•in-fc <»flfn»4^n=h-n 

M/ran jhan •.>'.'«K he 



ni- A A«lA.li"<U>r«" 

>i A„ ^ M'l' V*^'4>al nx- 



A aiViuA" ito'WicA 
C*«I|S«.A- *.Tf"At 

M >%.ilia -fl ti-h -. VMilt 
l**«DgllJlr- Ay">^ 

^iUO- PL^ oOkAPb*'' 
aitlB.f»--KVrt-A-Hil 

ii/« -M/.u-'^Rrt""'- 



UK* aiim-h ao-h ' 'ix. 

rtil > KW-aO-X tU'liirl: 

tt'M irau' = ».*"A -Jwo 

«.n.A-at»-.hXeniC*i 
an- >- ■ M T«C h- J***""*- 



Ethiopic Manuscript of the Gospel of John, Written on Parchment. 



MATERTAT.S TO WRITE UPON BEFORK I N VKNI'ION oK PRINTING. 057 

of the fourtccMith century. Ulmunii StrdMiier had established liim- 
self at Uliu. Born in i:V28, he died in MOT. He has left memoirs in 
which he recounts his annoyances with some of his workmen." 

Mentel a contemporary of Gutenbero- (1400-1478), established a 
paper factory at Strasburg. 

John Tate is the first paper maker in England. After him must 
be mentioned Spielmann, of German origin, jeweler to Queen Kliza- 
beth. Pie was created a knight and obtained for a term of ten years 
the exchisive privilege of collecting all the rags required for his mill.^ 

In the beginning, paper was manufactured in a mold — that is to 
say, the workmen drew directly from the vat of i)aste a cei-tain (juan- 
tity of it, and. by a particular twist of the hand, he spread it over a 
frame, whose under side was formed of brass wires (wire cloth) 
stretched, and pressed against each other, and kept rigid by other 
metallic threads (cross rods) somewhat stronger, and placed across 
the first. The whole process of manufacturing paper is too familiar 
to require anything further to be said regarding it. 

Until recently the opinion of scholars and of all those who had 
studied the c()mi)osition and the manufacture of paper was that the 
first products of that industry were made from cotton. The name 
itself under which pajx'r was designated in Latin and Greek seemed 
to demonstrate this: Charta bombyeina, cuttunea, damascena. 

Numerous dissertations, erudite enough, but all equally inaccurate, 
attempted to prove the existence of cotton paper.' All the proofs in 
favor of this method, based solely on the outside and superficial 
appearance of the paper, and on the texts containing vague defini- 
tions, vanished as soon as a really scientific analysis and examination 
of paper was made. AViesner and Briquet were the first to examine 
paper with the microscope; the latter has recorded in the Memoires 
de la Societe des Antiquaries de France {i)" serie, Tome VI% 1885) 
the result of a microscopic analysis of 1'22 specimens of paper from 
the most varii^l sources, and embracing a period extending from the 
eleventh to the fifteenth century. 

The following is the resume of his conclusions: 

There has never been any cotton paper. 



o Musee retrospectif, Class 88, pp. 18-19. ■ 

6 Il)id., p. 121'. 

p Montfaiicoii. Dissci'tulion sur le papyrus, sur lo papier de coton et sur 
eelui dout on se sert aiijourd'hiii. MOiw. de litterat. tirez des Registres de 
rAcadcinie roj'ale des Inscriptions et ))elles-l(>ttres depuis 1718 Ti 1725. Paris 
1720, t. VI, p. 501. — Wattenbacli. Das Schriftwesen in Alittelalter. Leipzig, 
1S71.— Siclcel. Ilistorische Zeitsehrift, t. XXVII, p. 442.— Wailly (Nat de). 
Elements de paleographie, etc. 

SM 1004 i2 



658 MATERIALS TO WRITE UPON BEFORE INVENTION OF PRINTING. 

Hag pai)er is more ancient tlian has been snpposed. It goes back 
to the tenth century. 

Rag paper was first used in the Orient. It did not penetrate into 
the Occident until two or three centuries later. 

Paper was filigreed from the thirteenth century in the Occident. 
This practice was transported later to the Orient." 

It is certain that in China from the very origin of the discovery of 
paper, bamboo nnist have been used in its niamifactiire. Other vege- 
table materials may have contributed to the same use. The Japanese 
l)aper Avhich we know is manufactured from the bark of certain small 
trees, EdgeAvortia papyrifera, Broussonetia papyrifera, and Wik- 
strcemia canescens. 

A longer digression upon this subject would carry us l)eyond (,;ii- 
l^rojected limits. With the discovery of printing we nuist sto]). 

We may conclude by saying that man, inspired by the desire of 
leaving traces of his life and actions, sought every means to transmit 
them to his descendants. What an evolution he has j)assed through 
from the pictographic inscriptions upon the rocks to the ]:)honetic 
alphabet written on paper and finally printed. 

"Briquet (C. M.) Recliei-ches sui: les premiers papiers employes en Occident 
et en Orient, dn X ' an XV *■ siecle, i)p. 133-180. Followed by Analyses niicro- 
scopiquos de pMpiers du moyeu age, pp. 181-205, 1 plate outside the text. 



AN INQUIRY INTO THK POPULVJION OF CHINA." 



Bv William Woodville Rockhill. 



From the earliest times of their history the Chinese have made 
every few years enumerations of the adult popidation of the Empire. 
The history of the census in China may 1)(> divided into two parts. 
Dnrinir the first, extendi ng- from tlie first recorded count in the 
twenty-third century B. C. down to fTl:2 A D., with a few excep- 
tions, the number of lax-paying- househokls alone was recorded. In 
(lie second i)eriod the total numl)er of individuals is purposed to have 
been taken. 

In the first period the census was made solely for the purpose of 
levying the taxes, and there is every reason to believe that the local 
officials systematically kept the returns forward to the central Gov- 
ernment below the real figures, so as to divert to their own use as 
much of the taxes levied as they possibly could. In the second period, 
that reason no longer existing (see infra, p. GGo), it became a matter 
of pride with the officials, as well as good policy, to swell the returns 
of population. 

There is much uncertainty as to the number of individuals con- 
taineil in each recorded "household " or lui, and whether by the word 
"individual" (literally "mouth," k'ou) is to be understood male 
adults, or both sexes, or persons of all ages — exclusive of infants — 
who have never been included in the enumerations of any period. In 
the time of Mencius (fourth century B. C.) the ''family" (chia) 
was supposed to comprise eight months (k'ou). This was the num- 
ber of persons whom 100 mou (about 15 acres) of medium land were 
computed to support.'' Under some dynasties (as the Han) it would 

" Kei"'i"t«'"l fnnn Siiiillisoniini Miscellaneoiis Collection (Quarterly Issue) 
vol. 47. Dect'iiiher 10. 1'.»(i|. 

&Moiicius. Ilk. I. i>l. I. Cli. Nil. 1^4. 

659 



660 INQUIRY INTO THE POPULATION OF CHINA. 

seem that the "household" comprised from 4.8 to 5.2 individuals; 
in others, the T'ang, for example, it rose to 5.8. During others, as the 
Sung, it was only a fraction over 2 persons, according to Sacharoff," 
though Biot ^ contends that in this period it was a fraction more than 
5 persons, as in the preceding period of the T'ang. Under the Yuan 
dynasty, according to Amiot, the " household " comprised 5 persons, 
and in the succeeding Ming dynasty it seems to have varied from 
about 5 to over 6.0. Even during the present dynasty we are in grave 
doubt as to the numeric value of the term hu (" household,"" " faniT 
il}^ ''). Father Amiot and other foreign Avriters have thought it rep- 
resented 5 persons, de duignes'' says 2 to 3, but in the opinion of 
E. H. Parker it averaged 6 persons.'' In the census of 1842, Avhich 
gave the number of households and of individuals, the former aver- 
aged 2.3 persons to the family; and in a census of the city of Peking 
for 1846 it averaged 3.1. I am disposed to accept 4 as a fair figure 
for enumerations of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.*^ 

During the Han dynasty, from A. D. 1 to 156, we have 10 enumer- 
ations.^ The first, taken in A. D. 1, gave 12,233,062 "households" and 
59,594,978 "individuals." The last, taken in 156, gave 16,070,906 
" households " and only 50,066,856 " individuals." The territory over 
which these censuses extended did not vary appreciably during the 
whole of this period of one hundred and fifty-five years; it was sub- 
stantially the same as at the present day. The population during this 
century and a half was nearly stationary. 

In A. D. 606, when China was again united under one rule, what 
has been held by western writers to be a very careful census was 
taken. It again gave the p()]:)ulatiou of the Empire at about 55,- 
500,0(){)." 

During the seventh, eighth, and ninth centuries, although a consid- 
erable number of enumerations of the people are recorded, they are 
so confused that it is impossil)le to fix Avith more than the roughest 
approximation the pojjidation at that time of China proper, Avhich 

a Hist. Uebersicht der Bevolkeruiigs-Verhaltnisse China's, p. 157. 

h .Tournal Asiatique. 1S8G, t. i. 

'■ VoyaKo a IVkinj,', in, 69. 

'' Sec iiil'i'a, pii. (;<;:',-(;(i4. in Jaiian the average number of persons by house- 
hold, whicli often includes several families, was 5.55 at the close of 1898. 

<" \t is true that in the case of the prefecture of Wen-chou, in Che-kiang. it 
was found in 1SS1 tliat the avei-age number of 'persons per home was aliont 5.14 
(see infra, p. 'MA), and in the case of Ch'uug-k'ing in Ssu-ch'uan in 1S7T a 
detailed census of the city gave about 4." persons to a family {V,. C. Baber, 
Journ. of Exi)lor. in west. China, p. 25). 

/ Ma Tuandin, W(>n4isien fnngdv'ao, bk. K). 

V 8ee Biot, op. cit., pp. 451-451.*. 



INQUIRY TNTO TIIK POPUT.ATION OF TTTTNA. ()()1 

lluMi coverod iihoiit (he Siiiuc area as at present. The census Avhich 
appears to have been the most carefully made was that of the year 
Tr)('). It gave 8,814,708 families and r)i>,<.)ll),:'.01) individuals for the 
free population, exclusive of infants and v(M-y old i)eople; it included 
the kino-dom of Koi-ea. The total poi)ulation in A. D. TaC) may tliei'c^- 
fore liave been al)oiit ()i,()(K),()OU. Biot, using the censuses i-efen-ed 
to in this paragraph, has calculated the average yearly increase of 
the |)opnlation of Chian proju'r between A. D. H^O and T.");"). and found 
it to ha\e been about O-OOC*)) })er cent. 

During tlu' eleveiuh -'entury. when the Empire was again u!iite(l 
under the rule of the Sung, we have ten enumerations of the popula- 
tion, that of the year lOSO showing evidence of having been the most 
carefully taken. It gives the number of households of freeholders 
(chu) and tenants (k\)) as 14,8r)>2,()8(), or ;^;^,;50;',,889 individuals. No 
uuitter how numerous we jillow the exempted and uneinnnerated classes 
to ha\(' l)een, it is not conceivable that they could have more than 
doubled this luunber; so we nuiy, 1 think, safely assmne that at the 
end of the eleventh century the population of China proper was not 
much more than 00,000,000, the same as in the middle of the eighth 
century. 

Biot has calculated the average yearly increase during the Sung 
dynasty (A. D. 97() to 1102) and found that from 976 to 1021 it was 
ni)oiit 0.0-2 ]X'r cent, an.d from 1021 to 1102 only 0.0103 per cent, or 
0.015 per cent during these one hundred and twenty-five years. 

In 1290, at the end of the Mongol conquest of China by Kublni 
Khan, a census of China proper gave 18,19r),20r) households of 58,- 
834,711 individuals. Admitting that vast numbers of Chinese had 
been reduced to slavery by the Mongols and countless thousands had 
been killed, the po})ulation at the end of the thirteenth century can 
hardly have been nuich in excess of 75,000,000. 

During the Ming dynasty there were no fewer than 21 censuses 
between 13S1 and 1578. The highest figure of the recorded popula- 
tion during this period was 66,598,337 individuals in 1403, and the 
lowest 40,802,005 in 1506. The last census, that of 1578, taken at a 
time when the country was extremely prosi)erous and enjoying gen- 
eral [)eace, gave the poi'ulaticn as 03,595),541 souls. 

While agreeing with Sacharoff that the various censuses of this 
period are not of a trustworthy character, T believe they nuiy be 
considered sufficiently accurate to show that during the fifteenth and 
sixteenth centuries the population of China increased very slowly, 
certainly not more rapidly than during previous pei'iods of its 
historv. 



002 



INQUIRY INTO THE POPUI>ATION OF CHINA. 



Tlio following returns of the detailed censuses of 1393. 1401, and 
1578 are taken from the Annals of the Ming." It must be noted 
that that of 1393 has no returns for several provinces of the Empire.'' 



1393. 



House- 
holds. 



Ssti-ch'uan 

Kian^-hsi 

Hu-kuang •. 

Che-klang 1 

Fu-kien 

Kuang-tung 

Kuang-hsi 

Shan-tung 

Shan-hsi 

Ho-nan 

Shen-hsi I 

Yiin-nau I 

Kuei-ehoii i 

Ching-shih ' . 

Nan-ching 1 

Total 



215, 
.553, 
775, 

i:{8, 

Slo, 
675, 
211, 
753, 
595, 
,S15, 
294, 
59, 



912,914 



9,318,078 



Individ- 
uals. 



1491. 



House- 
holds. 



Individ- 
uals. 



10,755,948 



58,619,228 



253,803 

1,. 36:^,629 

.504,870 

1,. 503, 124 

.506,039 

467,390 

459,640 

770, .555 

575, 249 

.575,249 

306,644 

15,9.50 

43,367 

304,055 

1,511,853 



2,598,460 
6,549,800 
.3,781,714 
5,305,843 
3,106,060 
1,817,384 
1,676,274 
6,7.59,675 
4,. 360, 476 
4,360,476 
3, 912, .370 
125,955 
258,693 
.3,448,977 
7,993,519 



9,161,417 56,05.5,676 



1578. 



House- 
holds. 



262,694 

i,:Mi,oa5 

.541,310 

1, .542, 408 

.515,307 

.530,712 

218,712 

1,. 372, 206 

596,097 

633,067 

394,42:^ 

l:i5,.560 

43,405 

334,691 

2,069,067 



Individ- 
uals. 



3,102,073 
5,8.59,026 
4,398,785 
5,153,0(15 
1, 7:38, 709 
5,040,655 
1,186,179 
5,664,099 
5,319,&59 
5,193,606 
4,.502,(!(.7 
1, 476, (ffi2 
2VX), 972 
4,2.58,453 
10,41.5,861 



10,5;«,664 e:^,. 599,. 541 



Between the founding of the present Manchu dynasty (A. 1). 
1644) and 1734 we have enumerations of the population by house- 
holds for nearly every year. E. H. Parker has extracted them from 
the Tung hua hi for the years between 1G51 and 18(50.'' From 1(551 
to 1730 they are as follows for eveiy tenth year: 

« Ming Shih, Bks. 40 and 4'A 

6 It is intere.-^ting to note that nearly all European writers of the latter part 
of the sixteenth and of the seventeenth centuries, such as Trigault, Matteo 
Kicci, Ilerrada, Martin Martini, Seniedo, Mandelslo. and Osl)eek, give apjiroxi- 
niately the figure of the census of l.">78 as that of the population of China in 
tlseir time, some of tliem seating thai it included only adult males or "fighting 
men." I c:in Hnd no authority foi- this in any Chinese woik. (iemelli Careri 
( Voy. Kouiid the World. I't. IV. .".2d) made out the itojiulation of China at the 
end of the seventeenth century to he .">'.t.T.S,S.:!(;4 men. "exclusive of women. 
children, jiaupers. officials, literati, .nrmy. the imperial clan, etc." He gives the 
numlier of families as 11,002,872. The figures, hoth of individuals and of house 
holds, are substantially those of the census of I.ITS. He cites no authority for 
his statement concerning classes of the population not included in tiie census. 
I am inclined to believe he took his figures and this statement bodily from 
Athanasius Kircher or Father Martin Martini. b\it tlu'y in turn furnish no 
authority for their belief that the recorded i)opulation was exclusively comi)osed 
of male adults. 

(' K. II. Parker, A Note on Some St.-itistics Hegarding China, Journal Itoyal 
Statistical Society, XII, i)t. 1. pp. l.".(i l.'.d. I>u Ilalde, Description, etc. IF. 
p. 14. referring to the early enumerations of the present dynasty, states that 
the taxpayers were the adult niales only between twenty and sixty years of age. 



INCjriHV INTO TIIK l'( )Pr LATION OF CHINA. 663 

I''aiiiilics. 

icr.l. (;i\c(l popiilntio!! 10, o:}.?, 000 

ICCO. taxed poi^ilatioii li). OSS. 000 

KiTO, taxed population 19, SOC, 000 

1080. taxed iiopnlation 17.095,000 

ICOO. taxed p(.piilatioii_._ ^ 20,304,000 

1T(«i. taxed population 20.411.0(M» 

1710. taxed poi)ulati(>ii 23. :'.l 1.000 

ITl'o. taxed pojiidatiou 24. 720. 0(M» 

IT.'id. taxed population 2r>. 4S( ). 000 

111 till' case of tlu' ceustis ol" 17"20 we are told that there were, exclu- 
sive of the taxed i)o[)iilatioii, ;)()!). r)4r) families free from taxation, 
and 851,0.")*) families in the case of that of 1T;U). Parker notes that 
"evidence clearly shows" (hut, as usual with him, he does not go to 
the trouble of aiviiiii' any) " that the numbers given above must be 
multiplied by six, and not by five, as was done by Amiot, in order to 
obtain the number of individuals.'' Pending production of evidence, 
I shall follow Father Amiot's views on this [)oint, and would add 2 
l)er cent for the tax-free families, Avhich include officials, literati, the 
army, etc. On this basis we find that the total j)oi)ulatioii of China 
proper in l(>r)l, during the troublous times which accompanied the 
establishment of Manchii supremacy, was about 55,000,000 — just 
about the number we should have assumed it to be had we to deduct 
it from the data supplied by history alone. From 1051 down to the 
l^resent time the figures of the returns vary with such extraordinary 
rai)idity, so unlike anything we have noted in the whole long list of 
earlier Chinese enumerations, that one is inevitably brought to look 
on them as fanciful and i)robably far remote from the ti'uth." 

In 171-J an imperial edict oi'dered that the iiumbei" of families 
(i24,()'21,H3J ) given in the enumeration of the preceding year should 
riMiiaiii the invarial)le basis for the assessment of the crown taxes, 
and that all subsequent censuses should give the total number of 
inhabitants. Nevertheless, it was only in 1741, after repeated orders 
had been given by the Imperial Government, that a return was made 
of the total population of China. According to it the population 
was U;i,4I-_>,000. For 1748 Ave find in the Institutes of the Ta 
Cli'ing dynasty (Ta Ch'ing Ilui-tien) a detailed census of the seven- 
teen ])r()viiices — corresjjonding to the eighteen of the present day — 
but again given by households. This census gave the total number 
of households (hu) as 28,877,304, comprising 143,()21,400 individ- 
uals, or about 4.8 persons to a household. To this number, Avhicli 

« De Guignes (Voyage a Pekiiif?, Vol. Ill, pp. 50-SG), after a study of the 
Chinese census returns of 1743, 17(51, and 1794, conchuled tli.it they were exag- 
gerated, and also that the figure five ado])ted hy the missionaries to ascertain 
the number of persons in a family was too high hy half. He calculated tiie 

Iiopnlation of China iifoitei- in 17S'.) at ir)(i,(jO( ),(»()(! as a maxiimiiii. 



064 



INQUIRY INTO THE POPULATION OF CHINA. 



corresponds very closely Avitli that given for 1741, Aniiot Avould add 
493,075 individuals for unenunierated officials, 2,470,000 for the 
literati, and 4,115,325 for the army. To this again he would add 
some 50,000,000 for the civil emi^loyees of Government, the monks, 
nuns, brigands, vagabonds, troglodytes, etc., with which, he says, 
China is full. Here I think he is unquestionably wrong, for the 
civil employees were included either in the already accounted for 
class of officials, or in the general returns," while as for monks, nuns, 
etc., the number was unquestionably so small that it may be omitted 
in such a rough estimate as that we are attempting to reach. AVe 
may adopt the number 143,000,000 individuals as a maxmuni for the 
total population of China i:)roper in 1743. 

The various estimates of the ])02)ulation made by the Government 
of China since 1743 are contained in the following tal)]e, in which 
have also been included the annual rates of increase or decrease 
between succeeding dates deducted from them : 



[Minus mark ( — ) indicates deci-ease.] 



Date. 


Population. 


Annual 
increase. 


Rate of 
increase. 


1743 


150,700,000 
177,089,000 
189,920,000 
200,339,000 
309, 126, OCX) 
213,897,000 
267,399,000 
276,632,000 
283,094,000 
360,444,000 
413, 021, (XX) 
414, 493, OCX) 
260,925,CXX) 
;«1,309,000 
377,636,000 






1749 


4,398,167 
1,601,375 
2,604,7.50 
J,464,5(X) 
1,192,750 
10,700,400 
2,308,250 
6,462,CX» 
2,667,241 
1,759,23;^ 
159, OCX) 

-15,356,800 
5,472,000 

- 1,224,333 


2 90 


1757 


90 


1761 .. 


1 37 


1767 


73 


1771 __ 




1776.... 


.~> (III 


1780 


8('> 


178.T 


2 34 


1812 


94 


1842 

1850" 


.49 
038 


1860 

1882 _ 

1885" 


-3. 705 

2.097 

32 







"The figures for 1850 .and 1800 arc given on the niithority of the Tung hua lu. The 
data from which the figure for 1885 is deduced were supplied me in 1885 h.v the Chinese 
board of revenue Hu I'u, and supplemented and completed by figures supplied by the 
same board to Mr. Popoft for ten provinces for the year 1879. This enumeration, as also 
those for 17(31, ISIL', 1842, and 1882 are given in detail, infra, p. C!7C!. See also S. Weils 
Williams, The Middle Kingdom, i, 258. 

Since the last date in the preceding tal)le a number of estimates of 
the population of China i)roper have been made b}^ various writers, 
but none of the estimates has any particular value, all of them being- 
based on the data supplied Popolf for 187!) and 1882. E. H. Par- 
ker '^ gives from Russian sources the population of the various ])rov- 

aTa Ch'ing Lti-li, 3d Div., Bk. I, Sec. LXXVI, i)rovicles for the registration 
of persons in the civil nml military services. 
i-Cbina, etc.. 192. 



TNQriRV INTO THE TOPTT.ATION OF f'lllNA. 065 

iiices j'or 185)4; tliis is the wildest o-uess yet made, and foots up a 
tot;)l of 4-i 1 ,800.000. In lOO-i the Statesman's Year Book (p. 500) 
published a table ''issued by the Chinese (Jovei-nmeiit as the results 
of a census taken for the i)uri)ose of the apportionment of the 
indemnity to the ])OAvers," in which the population is estimated at 
4()T,iir>:).000. There is not a scintilla of evidence to show that any 
census was taken for the purpose stated, and. furthermore, there 
was no necessity for takin<>- one, as the sums levied from the various 
provinces for the indemnity of l'.)00 were procured by indirect 
taxation. Here aiiain we have iiolhiuii- more than a guess of the 
Chinese board of I'evenue. 

II. 

An atti'uipt will now be made to determine the value of the vari- 
ous enumerations of ])o]ndation since that of 1741, which I am 
inclined to believe Avas probably a closer approximation to the truth 
than were any subsecpient ones, the Imperial Government beino; in 
strong, intelligent hands, its mandates executed with more faithful- 
ness and precision than at any other subsequent period, and the Empire 
enjoying j^erfect peace. I feel confident, however, that it was in 
excess of the truth, for it nuist be borne in mind that no census 
such as w^e make in this country has ever been attempted in China. 
The statutes of the Empire" require, it is true, that all families 
should make returns of their members, and impose punishments 
for failure to comply or for falsification of returns; it would there- 
fore seem easy to tabulate these returns at any time, but experience 
has proved that such is not the case. In China all statements of 
population are largely guesswork, and where numbers are guessed 
they arc always magnified, especially when there is no reason to 
keep them down, as was the case prior to the imperial edict of 
1712, referred to previously. 

China enjoys a salubrious clinuite and a fertile soil, and the people 
have always been extraordinarly industrious and thrifty. As a gen- 
eral rule the taxation has been fairly equable, and life and property 
safe in times of peace. These conditions are all conducive to a large 
increase in population. There is another reason which should from 
the remotest times have been potent in producing a larger increase 
of population in China than in other countries enjoying like nat- 
ural advantages. I refer to the desire of every Chinese to have pos- 
terity to keep up the ancestral worship. AVe find Mencius (B. C. 
372-289) saying: "There are three unfilial acts, and to have no pos- 
terity is the greatest of them" (pu hsiao yu san, wu hou Avei ta)." 

oTa Cli'ing, Lii-li, 3d Div., Bk. I, Sees. LXXV, LXXVI. 
6 Mencius. Blc. IV. I't. 1. Cb. XXVI. 



666 INQXHRY INTO THE POPULATION OF CHINA. 

Failure to support one's parents enduring ])OYerty is only second to 
it, for by failing to have posterity one olt'ends against the whole line 
of one's ancestors by putting an end to the sacrifices due them. To 
this belief is due the universal practice of early marriages which has 
always prevailed in China. 

The exceptional checks Ave find to a large increase of the pojuda- 
tion are, however, quite as potent as the encouragements to its 
increase just mentioned. Among these, famine, fioods, and pesti- 
lence have been the most constantly operating, and have arrested 
rapid increase more even than the losses incurred through the fearful 
butcheries which have throughout China's history invariably accom- 
panied the suppression of every rebellion, the . establishment of 
every nev/ dynasty. 

Alexander Hosie in his paper on " Droughts in China from A. D. 
G20 to 1643,"" or during a period of one thousand and twenty-three 
years, found that drought had occured in five hundred and eighty- 
three years in some one of the eighteen provinces, frequently in four 
or five of them at the same time, and in many cases they were accom- 



a Hosie's inquiries, drawu from tlie great Chinese worlv called the T'u-shu chi 
chVug (see .Jouni. C"h. Br. Roy. Asiat. Soc. n. s., XII. 51 ot stMi.), may be sum- 
marized as follows : 

Between A. D. <;20 and TOO inclusive, there were 41 years witli droughts, of 
which 2 were the results of great floods. 

From 701 to SOU, inclusive, there were 4»; y(>ars with drought. In TOO typhus 
ranged. 

From 801 to itoo. inclusive, there were 4:! years witli drougiit, S of wliicii were 
of great severity. 

From 1)01 to 10(10. inchisive. tluTc were CO years witli dronglit, K! lieiiig "great 
droughts." 

From 1001 to llutt, inclusive, there were dS years with drought, d being of 
long duration, 8 "great droughts" and one (108fi-8T) universal and of long 
duration. 

From 1101 to 1200, inclusive, there are GO recorded droughts, of which 
were " great droughts," 4 of long duration and .5 " very severe." 

From 1201 to 1800, inclusive, there were TC> droughts, of wbicli 12 were "great 
di-ongbts" and 4 " vei-y severe." 

From i:'.ol to 14(10. inclusive, there were .10 years witli drought, (»f which 2.~» 
were "great droughts." 4 accompanied with Hoods in otlier sections of the coun- 
try, 4 with locusts, and during (! of the droughts the people resoi-ted to 
cannibalism. 

From 1401 to moo, inclusive, there were .")T years with drought, of which 'M> 
were "great droughts;" during 8 cannibalism is recorded, and during several 
typhus raged. 

From 1501 to 1000 there were 84 years with drought, of which 09 were "great 
droughts" (in A. D. 1508 it e.xtended ovt r S i)rovinces) ; during several can- 
nibalism is I'ecorded. 

From 1001 to 1048, there were 15 years with drought. In 15 years it occurred 
in Shan-hsi and in 11 in Che-kiaug. 



TNQX'TRY INTO TlIK POPULATION OF CTTTNA. 667 

l)aiiie(l by floods, typhus, aiul othci- scourges. Frcciiiciidv these 
droughts histed in the same section of country for several successive 
years or occurred at such close iiitei'vals that the country liad not 
time to recover from them. To cite hut two cases: from A. 1). KJOl 
to l()4;i drought is recorded in some one jH-ovince of China in thirty 
years, in fifteen of Avhich it occurred iu the ])r()vince of Shan-hsi. and 
in eleven in that of (Mie-kiang. 

The fearful loss of life which has marked every calamity tiiat has 
visited any i)art of China, and the nearly incredible cruelty which has 
l)een shown in the sui)i)ressi()n of eveiy u[)rising tliat has taken i)la(,v 
from the earliest days down to the present time, are unfoitunately 
too well authenticated to be denied. 

Without going baciv to the early annals of the Chinese for examples 
of the terril)le mortality which has always attended natural calamities 
and warfare in China, a few in the last three centuries, vouched for 
by reliable Enropean writers, or by foreigners resident in the counti-y 
at the time of their occurrence, may be cited here. 

Fathei- l)u IFalde" states that in the year 158:2 '^ there was such a 
great drought in the Province of Shari-hsi, that it was impossible to 
count the number of those who died of starvation. There were dug 
in various localities some sixty great ditches, each of which held a 
tlioiisand corpses, and were thereafter called Van gin keng." (Wan 
jen k'eng), '* Grave of a myriad men.'' 

The same author '' says that on September -2, 1078, there was an 
eartlujuake in the ProNince of Chih-li when over 30,000 persons lost 
their lives in the town of T'ung-chou alone. On November HO, 17:51, 
there was another earthquake in the same province, when over 100,- 
000 persons lost their lives in Peking, and more than tliat nunil)er ui 
the adjacent country. 

Father Amiot,'^ writing from Peking, May 20, 1780, tells of a 
terrible drought which for the three past years had visited the prov- 
inces of Kiang-nan, Ho-nan, and Shan-tung. The people in vast num- 
bers sought to reach other provinces, bnt thousands npon thousands 
died on the roads and their corpses were devoured by the survivors. 

As regards the extraordinary loss of life attending military opera- 
tions in China, Dn Ilalde states'' that in 1035 the Chinese, to defend 
the city of K'ai-feng Fn in Ho-nan against the rebels, cut the Yellow 
River dikes. The whole city was submerged and 300,000 persons lost 
their lives. 



a Description, I. p. r>-J2. Tlio expression Wan jen k'tMis: is coljociuially nsed 
to (lesi.unate a pit into \v!iii-li tlie licdies of executed criuiinnis are tlH-(»\vn. See 
II. A. (Jiles, Chin. Diet., s. v., Icen.i;. 

& Ibid. I, p. 'A:\. 

f Mem concernant les Ciiinois. XIII, ]). 42.^). 

<?Op. eit., I, p. 5:50. 



6(38 INQUIRY INTO THE POPULATION OP CHINA. 

The history of Ch'ang Hsien-chiuig, tokl by Du Hiilde," by Father 
d'Orehins,'' by Father de Mailhi/' and others, is an example of ^Yhat 
has frequently occurred in China during its long history. In the 
disturbed period Avhich followed the overthrow of the ]\Iing dynasty 
this person overran with his troops the provinces of Ho-nan, Kiang- 
nan, Kiang-hsi, and Ssu-ch'uan. It is said that for the slightest 
offense not only was the offender himself ])ut to death, but the same 
punishment was visited on all the inhabitants of the same street. 
Five thousand eunuchs were beheaded because one of their number 
refused to treat him as Emperor. He called some 10,000 students 
to the examinations at Ch'eng-tu Fu in Ssii-ch'uan and had them all 
put to death. He had butchered over G00,000 persons in that prov- 
ince alone ! On leaving Ch'eng-tu to nnirch into the adjoining 
province of Shen-hsi he had all the inhabitants chained, led out of 
the city, and executed. Then he ordered his soldiers to put to death 
their own wives as troublesome impediments in times of war, and 
he gave the example by having his own wives executed. So reads 
his story. If it is not all true much of it certainly is. 

Turning to the nineteenth century, always on the authority of care- 
ful European investigators, Colonel Kuropatkin (the present com- 
mander in chief of the Russian army in Manchuria) speaking <* of the 
Mohammedan rebellion in Shen-hsi and Kan-su of 1861 and subse- 
quent years, states, on the authority of Sosnovski, that on the occa- 
sion of the siege of Ho-chou in Kan-su, which lasted seven months, 
20,000 men were put to death by the Chinese on the fall of that ])lace. 
When the neighboring town of Hsi-ning Fu was captured, 9,000 were 
put to death. At the capture of Chin-chi P'u, the Mohammedan 
stronghold, 50,000 were killed and a vast fruitful and thickly popu- 
lated tract turned into waste. At Chuguchak and its environs 40,000 
men perished at the hands of the Chinese, and the town was left 
without a single inhabitant. 

Doctor Macgowan, who Avas residing in China during the whole 
of the T'ai-p'ing rebellion, says of it : '- " Nine provinces had been 
desolated by it; flourishing towns and cities had been made heaps of 
ruins, and wild beasts made their dens within them, wdiilst fully 
thirty millions of people had been j)ut to death by these ruthless rob- 
bers " (rebels and imperialists). 

Another authority says: "During the first year of the great Tai- 
ping rebellion the registered population declined by two-fifths, but 

a Description, I, p. 535. 

i History of the Two Tartar Conquerors of China. Haklnyt Sofiety edit., p. 2(i. 
c Hist. Gi-n. de la Cliine, X, 470-479 ; XI, 17-28. 
^Kashgaria, English trans., p. 155. 

'" History of China, p. 575. Conf. S. Wells Wiliams, The Middle Kingdom, 
II, 623. 



INQUIRY INTO THE POPULATION OF OF UNA. 669 

though many luillions imist Imvo perished, it is not at all likely that 
the numbers of 1850 (414,41);^,0()()) were more than decinuited. Even 
then, to kill or starve 4;^,0()(),0()() people in ten years would mean 
12,000 a day, in addition to the 40.000 a day who (at the rate of 80 
per thousand i)er annum) would die naturally, and would balance 
about the same number of births. Moreover, the rebellion covered 
only one-half the area of China, so that 24,000 a day is certainly 
nearer than 12,000." 

The loss of life attendin<>- the crushing of the two Mohammedan 
and the Nien-fei rebellions ( ISiiO-lSTH) mounted certainly to over a 
million. Then we have a (juarter of a million killed in the suppres- 
sion of the Mohannuedan rebellion in Kan-su in 1894-05. If we 
add to this terrible source of loss of population that resulting from 
famines and floods, the total is nearly doubled. There were great 
famines in 1810, 1811, lS4(i, and 1849, wdiich, according to the 
Tung hua lu, the best official authority we have on the subject, re- 
duced the population by 45,000,000. Although this figure may seem 
excessive, Ave know that in the next great famine, that of 1877-78, 
which visited only four provinces of the Empire w4th great severity, 
no fcAver than 9,500,000 persons fell its victims. This figure I quote 
on the authority of the China famine relief committee of Shanghai. 

We must add to this again the loss of life which attended the great 
flood of 1888, when the Yellow Eiver broke its banks and flooded 
nearh^ the whole province of Ho-nan. According to memorials sent 
at the time to the Emperor, about 2,000,000 w-ere drowned or starved 
to death by this catastrophe. Then there is the unknown, but cer- 
tainly terrible, mortality during the great drought and famine in 
Shan-hsi, Shen-hsi, Chih-li, and southern Mongolia in 1892-93 and 
j894. There have also been numerous epidemics of cholera and 
plague which have devastated sections of the Empire in the last 
twenty to thirty years, and still we have not exhausted the list of 
causes of violent fluctuations, of extraordinary loss to the population 
of China during the nineteenth century.'' 

It nu^st not be lost sight of that these figures represent only the 
mortality among adults; it is extremely improbable that infants were 
counted at all. 

Popoff, in his study on the population in China,'^ estimates that the 

a E. H. Purker. ('hiiia. p. 100. 

6 I was told in llJOl by the late Li Hung Chang that over 30,000 Chinese lost 
their lives in Peking alone during the Boxer troubles of 1900. Admitting that 
this figure and all those here given are exaggerated, it is true beyond all doubt 
that the loss to the population from these causes has been fearful. 

<• P. S. PoiKtfF in Xovoe Vrcniya, No. 3000, September 10, 1884. Conf. S. Wells 
Williams, The Middle Kingdom, i, 270. 



670 iNQi'iRY INTO thp: population of china. 

p()])ulali()ii of China proper has not only not increased during tlie 
period of forty years, from 1842 to 1882, but has even diminished by the 
considerable number of 30,942,502. 

The only reliable data I have found on the subject of Chinese vital 
statistics are the following: 

In 1S80 the governor of the province of Che-kiang reported" to 
the Emperor that as the result of a general census of the province 
taken in 1879 it was found that the population was 11,541,054. 

Mr. Popoff, the interpreter of the Russian legation in China, was 
informed in 1882 by the board of revenue in I'eking that the 
population of this same province of Che-kiang was then 11,588,692, 
and in 1885 the same board informed the writer of the present paper 
that it was then 11,(384,348. 

As corroborative evidence of the value of these figures, we learn 
that Connnissioner of Customs Alfred E. Hippisley '' found by a 
careful report made to him by the taotai of the prefecture of Wen- 
chou that the average number of persons per home was about 5.14, 
and that the total population of the prefecture was 1,841,000. " The 
area of the prefecture being about 4,500 square miles, the average 
population would therefore seem to be about 400 to the square mile 
in this prefecture, and thus largely in excess of the general average 
of the province." 

The best available information concerning the area of the province 
of Che-kiang' gives it as 34,700 sijuare miles. Assuming, then, that 
the average population to the square mile is one-fifth less than in the 
]Drefecture of W^en-chou (say 325 to the square mile), the total popu- 
lation of the province in 1881 would have been about 11,145,000 — a 
figure substantially agreeing with that given by the governor of the 
province for 1879 and that supplied Popoft' in 1882. 

The po])ulation of Che-kiang, according to the above figures, 
increased from 1879 to 1882 — say about three years (1880-1) from 
11,541,054 to 11,58S,(;02, or 47,(>38. From 1882 to 1885 (also three 
years) it increased tVom 11,588,(;02 to 11,()84,348, or 05,()5(). This 
would be an annual increase from 1870 to 1882 of 0.20() per cent, 
and from 1882 to 1885 of 0.275 per cent, oi- an a\-erage yearly rate 
from 1870 to 1885 of 0.240 per cent — this under the most favorable 
possible circumstances, the countiy being blessed with peace and 
j)lenty during all that period and for some years previously. At this 

o Peking Gazette, March 17, 1880. 

6 Trade Report of Wen-chou for 1881, pp. 27-28. 

c Statosiiian's Yearbook, 1902, p. 49r». It may be said tlint tlio returns for 
Che-kiang sliow just tlie contrary of wliat I am seeking to prove, but it nuist 
be seen at once bow fanciful nmst Ix' tlie returns of poitulation when the total 
nmiih(>r in a vast i)rovince is deduced from a rougli count in a small district. 
This is substantially the method the Chinese follow. 



INQUIRY INTO THE POPULATION OK CHINA. 671 

rate the poiJiilalioii of Clie-kiaii_i>: would doiihlc itself hy natural 
increase in 417 years. 

Newsholnie;' calciilalini:- the avera<re l>iilli rate and (l(>ath rate foi- 
the five years iSill-lM',).'), found that in I'russia the population would 
double itself by natural increase in V.).2 years; in Enfrhmd in rA)A 
years; in Italy in (')."). 7 years; in Austria in 71.1 years, and in France 
in 5!)! years, the annual increase in the pei-iod named avera<j:in<j^ in 
the latter country ouly O.OS per 1,(){)(). Conditions of life in other 
])rovinces of the Empire of China are ai)i)r().\imately the same as in 
Che-kian<i- — in fact, in a number they are worse, particuhirly as 
regards the frequency of famines, floods, and epidemics; neverthe- 
less, Chinese enumerations would have us believe that the population 
in China increases more rapidly than in the most favored countries of 
the Avorld. 

In the case of China, natural increase is the only one to be taken in 
line of count ; immiiiration into China is practically nil, and emigra- 
tion from China proper to other portions of the Empire, excluding 
Asia, has only within (piite recent times become of considerable size, 
and even now it is not sufficient to appreciably affect the sum total 
of the population in. the approximate count we are trying to make of 
it. The only migratory movements of the Chinese have been from 
province to province of the Empire. Without going far back into 
the past it will suffice to mention the repopulation of the provinces of 
Ssii-ciruan and Yiin-nan after the Manchu conquest from the Hu 
Kuang provinces and the similar movement to Ssfi-ch'uan during 
the great T'ai-p'ing rebellion. The emigration from Shan-hsi into 
southern and eastern Mongolia after the famine of 1877-78, and that 
from Shan-tung and Chih-li into Manchuria still going on, are the 
most important recent movements of population to outlying parts 
of the Chinese Empire. The emigration to southern Asia and to 
remoter parts of the world is drawn exclusively from the provinces 
of Fu-kien and Kuang-tung, and though considerable, is not so large 
as to affect to any appreciable degree the rough figures of population 
we hope to establish.^ 

Very little accurate information has come to us as to the death 
rate in any given locality of China; in fact, the only official data I 
know of is the death rate in Peking during one year, 1815, for which 
year we have also the returns of a detailed census of the population 
within the Peking city walls. These were obtained by Sacharoff 
and published in his valuable study, cited previously. According to 

a Eleiu. Vital Statistics, p. 15. 

''The following figures relative to (Miinose emigration, taken from Kxi)ort of 
April 14. 1!K>4, a German paper devoted to eomnien-ial geography, first api)eared 
in (iottwaldt's work on Chinese emigration. The greater part of the Chinese 
emigration originates in the southern provinces, Shau-tung being the only 



672 



INQUIRY INTO THE POPULATION OF CHINA. 



thein the population of Pekiiii^ within the walls in 1845 was 1,648,- 
814, and the number of deaths (exclusive of infants and small chil- 
dren, say, under 5 years of aire) durinj; the whole year was 30,438, 
or about 23.9 per 1,000 inhabitants — by no means an excessive rate. 

The death rate among infants, resulting from the highly insani- 
tary conditions in which the whole population, rich and ]X)()r, 
throughout the Empire constantly lives, and also from female in- 
fanticide, must be exceedingly high. This latter cause of infant 
mortality is accountable for a considerably increased death rate in 
the provinces of Kuang-tung, Fu-kien, Che-kiang, Shan-hsi, Kiang- 
hsi, An-hui, and in most of the other provinces of the Empire in a 
lesser degree." 

Everything considered — especially the fact that in a very large 
part of China the people live huddled together in towns and villages, 
and that nowhere is any attenii)t ever made toAvard sanitation or the 
prevention of the spread of contagious disease — it seems quite safe 
to put the death rate in China at 30 per 1,000 as a minimum. 

northern province that furnishes any large proportion of emigrants from China. 
Tlie niuiiber of Chinese outside of China is as follows : 



Country. 



Formosa. 

Slam - 

Malay Peninsula 
Sunda Islands. .. 

Hongkong.- 

America. 

Indo-Cliina 

Philippines 



N umber. 



2,600,000 
2,500,000 
985,000 
600,000 
374,543 
272,829 
150,000 
80,000 



Country. 



Macao 

Burma 

Australia 

Asiatic Russia 

Japan 

Korea 

Total 



Number. 



74,5f)8 
40,000 
30,000 
25, (XX) 

7,0(K) 
3, Till 

r,642,a50 



The following figures show the number of persons that left China and Hong- 
kong and returned during the last twenty-six years: 



China and Hongkong. 



Amoy (Fu-kien) 

Swatow (Kuang-tung) 
Kiung-chou ( Hai-nan). 
Hongkong 



Left. 



1,629,947 

1,794,298 

298,772 

1.130,000 



Returned. 

1,309,787 

1,307,744 

296, 2;« 

1,090,000 



a See Jour. Nor. Ch. Br. Roy. Asiat. Soc, Vol. XX, p. 2."i et seq. Newsholme 
(Elem. Vital Statistics, 130) says that infant mortality in Europe is lowest 
in Ireland, with KU.G in every 1,000, and highest in Paissia in lOuroiH'. with 
422.9 in every 1,000. It must be at least this in China. In Japan, whei-e 
there exists the same dc>'.ire as in China to liave posterity, the average number 
of children to a marriage is al)ont :>..! (Newsholme, op. cit., p. 70). I see no rea- 
son to believe that the ('hinese ai-e more prolilic In the United States, accord- 
ing to tlie census of 1000, the aiunial death rate of the whites, where accurately 
recorded, was about 17.8 per 1,000. 



JNQUIKV INTO rilK I'Ol'ILATIOiN OF CHINA. 



673 



III. 

Lot lis rcNcrl now (o (he li<2;iiiH'.s <ii\t'ii hy (ho Cliiiioso Govorninont 
for tho population at tlio vai-ious poriods sinoe 1741 and see whether 
tho ainuial ratos of inoroaso aro at all roasonablo. This oxaniination 
is (listinotly (lisai)i)ointiiig; iiothin<>; loss satisfactory could bo con- 
ceived. Bot\voon 1748 and 1783 — during which time China enjoyed 
extraordinary poaco and ])ros[)ority, disturbed oidy by some uprisings 
of aboriginal tribes in the mountainous regions of the west, and two 
small rebellions, one in Shan-tung in 1777, the other in Shen-hsi in 
17S1 — no givat famines or other natural calamities are recorded. 
Nevertheless, tlie amnial nite of increase of the popuhition (the 
enumerations being all presumably made in the same manner, with 
tlie same classes exce])t('d), which between 1748 and 1749 was 2.90 
per cent, fell from 1749 to 17r)7 to 0.91 per cent, to rise between 1757 
to 1761 to 1.37 per cent, falling again to 0.78 per cent between 17G1 
and 1707, and to 0.57 per cent from that date to 1771. The next 
change is phenomenal: Between 1771 and 1770 it was 5 per cent, but 
immediately after, between 1770 and 1780 it fell, without any known 
reason, to 0.80 per cent, to rise again between that date and 1788 to 
2.84 [)er cent. The average annual rate of increase during the whole 
period was 1.88 per cent. In Japan, where much more favorable 
conditions exist than in China, the average yearly increase of the 
l)opulation from 1872 to 1899 has been only 1.04 per cent. 

If we accept the figure given for the population in 1741 (143,412,- 
000) as being closer the truth than subsequent ones, and bearing in 
mind the reasons given previously for and against a rapid increase of 
population, Ave may assume that the population of China proper 
barely doubled in the hundred years following; consequently in 1842; 
instead of being, as given in the official enumeration, 418,000,000, it 
was probably about 250,000,000. 

Referring now to the extraordinary causes of mortality from 1842 
down to the i)resent day, some of which are mentioned on preceding 
pages, they may be tabulated as follows: 



Years. 



Resulting 
loss of popu- 
lation. 



Famine 

Do 

Tai-Ping rebellion 

Mohammedan rebellirjns . 

Famine 

Yellow River inundation . 

Famine 

Mohammedan rebellion . . 



Total loss of adults. 



1846 

1849 
1854-1864 
1861-1878 
1877-1878 

1888 
1892-1894 
1894-1895 



225,000 

13,750,000 

20,000,000 

1,000,000 

9,,500,(XK) 

2,000,000 

(?) 1,000, (XX) 

225,000 



47,700,000 



SM 1904r- 



-43 



674 INQUIRY INTO THE POPULATION OF CHINA. 

Wo are thcrcfoi-c linl io the inevitable eoiiclusiou tlial the present 
population of China proper can not o:reatly exceed tliat of 18-}:*2, a 
conclusion reached by another line of arirunient in 1881 l)y my friend 
A. E. Hippisley, in his too- brief study above referred to, and by INIr. 
Popoif in 1884. 

The following considerations tend to strengthen this opinion : The 
most recent enumeration of the i)opulation of China Avhich can lay 
claim to any value is that of 1885. In it we find that the returns 
given for six jjrovinces (Clii-Li, Anhoui, Kan-Soo, Kuang-hsi, Yiin- 
nan, and Kuei-Chu) are the same as those given in the earlier census 
of 1882, but which in this latter were in reality for the year 1879. A 
comparison of the official estimates for these provinces, Avith the esti- 
mates made by careful foreign investigators is highly interesting. 

In the case of the province of Ssii-ch'uan, Avhich the board of reve- 
nue estimated at 71,073,730 in 1885, all foreign writers agree that it 
is quite impossible to believe that an}' such population exists or can 
exist in it. Its western, northwestern, and southwestern parts are 
extremely mountainous and very sparsely inhabited. Furtheiinore, 
the province contains no extremely populous cities. Ch'eng-tu, the 
capital, has about 350,000, and Ch'ung-k'ing about 130,000. 

The Lyons Commercial Mission, speaking of the j^ear 1895-96, 
states its belief that the estimates of the maritime customs at Ch'ung- 
k'ing for 1891 of 30,000,000 to 35,000,000 for the province of Ssii- 
ch'uan is too low, but accepts that of from 40,000,000 to 45,000,000." 
G. J. L. Litton, writing in 1898, estimated the population of Ssu- 
ch'uan at more than double that given in the enumeration of 1812, 
and put it at 43.000,000.'^ F. S. A. Bourne, also writing in 1898, says 
that the population of Ssu-ch'uan is probably between 45,000,000 and 
55,000,000. In a report in 1904 Hosie gives it as 45,000,000.^ 

Kiang-hsi, for which the official returns give a population of more 
than 24,000,000, is believed by ^V. J. Clennell, writing in, 1903, to 
have less than 12,000,000.^' The same writer estimates the po])ula- 
of Fu-kien in 1903 at ''certainly under 10,000,000," whereas the 
Chinese figure for 1885 is 23,502,794. As regards Yihnman, the 
Lyons Mission '^ puts the population in 1890 at from 7,000,000 to 
8,000,000. F. S. A. Bourne, writing of Yun-nan in 1890, says that 
•' according to the best native authority the population is estimated at 
one-fifth of what it was before the (Mohammedan) rebellion,"^ 



a Mission Lyonnaise d'explor.-eommer. en Chine, 1S05-1S97, i)art ii, p. 232. 
6 Brit. Cons. Reports, No. 457, Misc. series. 

c Brit. Cons. Reports, No. 458, Misc. serio^;, p. 4!). Blue Book ; China, No. 5 
(1904). p. 4. 
dRrit. Pari. Bhie Book; Chin::. No. 1. Uto:'.. 
<' Op. cit., part ii. p. 129. 
/ Kep. Blackburn Chamber Connnerce, p. 91. 



INQUIRY INTO TJIK I'OPULATION OF CHINA. (i75 

while Litton, in I'.X):'., thoiiiiht it was "not over 10,000,000/'" The 
Chinese estimate of the |)()i)ulation of this province in 1K7!) (the same 
figure is given for ISSa) was ll,721,r)T(), hut only two years before 
that, in 1877, (General Mesney '' placed it at r),(;00,()()0. 

Kuei-chou in or about 18i)('» was thought to have about 7,0(X),000 
inhabitants,'' in this agreeing with the Chinese estimate. 

Without going any further we see that foi- the five provinces a})()ve 
mentioned foreign investigators substantially agree that the Chinese 
estimates are too large by some 50,000,000. All the Chinese figures 
are one-half to one-third too high. I have not the least doubt that 
the same reduction must apply to the estinuites for most of the other 
proA'inces, the error in excess increasing presumably with the density 
of the pojjulation. The conviction is therefore forced on me that the 
])resent i)oj)ulation of China proper does not exceed 275,000,000, and 
is probably considerably under this figure. 

The population of China is most unevenly distributed. In cer- 
tain sections, for example, around Swatow, and in portions of Ilo-nan, 
Shan-tung, and Chih-li, it is extraordinarily dense, while in others, 
as Kan-su, Yiin-nan, Kuei-chou, and Kuang-hsi, it is surprisingly 
sparse. Guesses of the population based on partial returns from some 
densely populated center would give a most erroneous idea of the 
population not only of the province as a Avhole, but of even a smaller 
division of the country. I have traversed several times all the north- 
ern provinces of China — Chih-li, Shan-hsi, Shen-hsi, and Kan-su — 
and can vouch for the fact that in none of them does the poi)ulation 
appear to exceed in numbers what the soil can easily support. The 
absence of easy lines of communication over which surplus produce 
can be readily exported, and the fact that the Chinese do not raise 
cattle or any domestic animals in considerable numbers, tend to re- 
strict the areas cultivated by the farmer. It seems certain that China 
could support a much larger population than it now has — a condition 
which could not exist if the population had reached the enormous 
figure which imaginative writers give us. I am confirmed in this 
opinion by such a careful observer as F. S. A. Bourne, who, referring 
to the journey of the Blackburn Chamber of Commerce mission,'' 
which traversed the whole Yang-tzii Valley a nd southwestern China, 
says: " I'rom what we have seen on this journey I should say that 
China could support twice her present population, and that each man 



a Brit. Pari. Blue Book ; Cliina, No. ,3, 1903. 

6 Journ. Ch. Br. Roy. Asiat. Soc, XXV, p. 483. 

(■Mission Lyons., part n, p. 207. 

*Rep. of mission to China of Blackburn ("hanilier of Commerce, 1896-97. p. 111. 



676 



INQUIRY IKTO THE POPULATION OP CHINA. 



miiiht l)e twice as Avell oft' as he is now: and this without any revohi- 
tionary ('han<>v in their present manner of life/'" 

EiuitiicrdfioiiN of the popnidtioii of Clnna, 1761, tS12, 184'2, 1SS2, mid 1SS5. 



Provinces. 



1761. 



1812 



1842. 



1882. 



1885. 



Chih-li 

Sfian-tung . . . 

Shan-hsi 

Ho-nan 

Kiang-su 

An-liui 

Fu-klen 

Che-kiang... 

Hu-pei 

Hu-nan 

Sheii-hsi 

Kan-su 

Ssu-ch'uan . . 
Kuang-tung 
Kuang-hsi _ - 

Yiin-naii 

Kuei-chou . . 

Kiang-hsi . . . 

Total.. 



7,412,014 



3, 
2, 
3, 
11, 

l9a 



,782, 
,797, 
947, 
078, 
402, 
006. 



257 



27,990,871 
28,9.58,764 
14,004,210 
23,037,171 
;^7,843,501 
34,ia5,059 
14,779,158 
26,2.56,784 
27,370,098 
18,652,507 
10,207,2.5(i 
15,. 3.54, 875 
21,435,678 
19,174,a30 
7,313,895 
.5, .561, 320 
5,288,319 
2:^,046,999 



360,440,395 



36,879,838 

29,529,877 

17,056,925 

29,069,771 

39,646,924 

36,596,988 

25, 799, 556 

»), 437, 974 

28,584,564 

20,048,969 

l(l,a)9,769 

19,512,716 

23,256,964 

21,1.52,603 

8,121,327 

5,823,670 

5,679,128 

26,513,889 

lH3^21,452 



* 17,937,000 
36,247,835 
12,2n,453 
22,115,827 
20,90.5,171 

* 20, .596, 988 
25,000,000 
11,. 588, 692 
33,3&5,0O5 
21,002,604 

* 8, 432, 193 
*. 5, 411, 188 

67,712,897 
29,706,249 

* 5, 1.51,327 

* 11,721,576 

* 7, 669, 181 
34,534,118 



381,309,304 



*17,937,0tt5 
:i6,545,704 
10,791,341 
22,117,036 
21,259,989 

* 20, .596, 988 
2.3, .502, 794 
11,684,348 
33,600,492 
21,0a5,171 

3,276,967 
*5,411,188 
71,073, 7:» 
29,740,tt55 

* 5, 1.51, 327 

* 11,721,576 

* 7, 669, 181 
24,541,406 



377,636,198 



The figures given in the censuses of 1761, 1842, 1S82, and 1885 were supplied 
to Father Aniiot, Sjicharoff, Popoft", and Rockhill by the Chinese board of reve- 
nue. Figures in the returns for 1882 and 1885 marked with an asterisk are 
those given to Sacharoff for the year 1879. They are tlie hitest official esti- 
mates. 

The figures given under the census of 1812 are taken from Sacharoff, whose 
authority was presumably t!ie official Ta Ch'ing Ilui-tien. 

a In a most interesting study entitled "Tenure of Land in China and the 
Condition of the Rural Population" (Journ. Ch. Br. Roy. Asiat. Soc, N. S., 
XXIII, pp. 50-174) we find it stated (pp. 7(1-79) on excellent authority that " it 
is impossible to say with any sort of exactness what proportion of the whole 
soil of China is tilled by peasant owners, but probably it can not be put at less 
ihan (iiie-half. Tlie other moiety is owned in great measure by retired oiHcials 
and their families, the class known as the literati and gentry. * * * Con- 
siderable tracts of bind are owned l.y such families, and it is tlic invariable 
rule in these cases to lease the land to small farmers. In the central and pojiu- 
lous i)arts of China these holdings are exceedingly small, often less thin an 
English acre, seldom larger than three or four acres. * * * Most lands 
yield one or more subsidiary crops in the course of the year, besides the prin- 
cipal crop. * '^ * On the frontier provinces, where the soil is poorer and 
the population more sparse, the size of the holdings is in general nmch larger 
than in the central provinces, and the people would seem as a ruh> to be better 
off. But as i)opulation increases there seems everywhere to I)e a sirong tendency 
tor holdings to t)ecome reduced to the minimum size that will sniii">rt a single 
family. The mor(> fertile the soil the smaller the farms and the more minute 
the subdivision. How marvelously fertile the soil is under favor.-ible circum 
stances will be seen from the fact that * * * one mow ((i.G to an acre) will 
support one individual. On this basis a square mile is capable of supporting 
a population of 3,840 persons." 



CHINESE ARCITTTECTURE." 



RV SiKPHEN W. BUSHELL, C. U. C... B. Sc, M. D. 



Tho first impression given by the view of a Chinese city from the 
parapet of the city wall— whether it be Tientsin, with the 150,000 
houses of its po])ulation of shopmen and artisans, or Pekino;, with 
its temples, its imperial and princely i)alaces, and its public build- 
ings — is that of a certain monotony, resulting from the predomi- 
nance of a single type of architecture. After a long residence this 
impression still remains, and it is very rarely that a I)uilding stands 
out ^Ahich is not reducible to one general formula. 

China, in fact, in every epoch of its history and for all its edifices, 
civil or religious, public or pri\ate, has kept to a single architectural 
model. Even when new types have been introduced from the West 
under the influence of Buddhism and Mohammedanism, the lines 
have become gradually toned down and conformed to his own 
standard l)y the leveling hands of the Chinese mason. It is a car- 
dinal rule in Chinese geomancy that every important building must 
face the soutli. and the uniform orientation resulting from this adds 
to the general impression of monotony. 

The most general model of Chinese buildings is the t'ing. This 
consists essentially of a massive roof with recurved edges resting 
upon short columns. The curvilinear tilting of the corners of the 
roof has been supposed to be a survival from the days of tent 
dwellers, who used' to hang the angles of their canvas pavilions on 
spears; but this is carrying it back to a very dim antiquity, as we 
have no records of the Chinese except as a settled agricultural peo- 
l)le. The roof is the principal feature of the building and gives to 
it when finished its qualities of grandeur or simplicity, of strength 
or grace. To vary its aspect the architect is induced occasionally 
to double, or even to triple, it. This preponderance of a part usually 
sacrificed in western architecture is justified by the smaller vertical 

"Chapter III, Chinese Art. hy Stephen W. Bushell ; published by the board 
of odiu-ation. South Kensinjiton, Victoria and Alliort Musouni. London, 1004. 
Keitrinted by permission of tho coutrolU'r (if His .Majesty's stationary office. 

677 



078 CHINESK ARCHITECTURE. 

elevation of the plan, and the architect devotes every attention to the 
decoration of the i-oof by the addition of antefixal ornaments, and 
by coverinj>- it Avith glazed tih>s of l)rilliant color, so as to concen- 
trate the eye upon it. The dragons and i)henixes posed on the crest 
of the roof, the grotesciue animals perched in lines npon the eaves, 
and the yellow, green, and bine tiles which cover it are never chosen 
at random, bnt after strict snmptuary laws, so that they may denote 
the rank of the owner of a honse or indicate the imperial foundation 
of a temple. 

The great weight of the roof necessitates the nudtiple employ- 
ment of the cohnnn, which is assigned a function of the first im- 
portance. The colmnns are made of wood; the shaft is generally 
cylindrical, occasionally polyhedral, never channeled; the capital 
is only a kind of consol, squared at the ends or shaped into dragons' 
heads; the pedestal is a square block of stone chiseled at the top 
into a circular base on which the shaft is posed. The pedestal, ac- 
cording to rule, ought not to be higher than the width of the column, 
and the shaft not more than ten times longer than its diameter. 
Large trunks of the Persea nanmu from the Province of Ssuchuan 
are floated down the Yangtze liiver to be brought to Peking to be 
used as columns for the palaces and large temples. 

The nanmu is the tallest and straightest of Chinese trees, the 
grain improves by age, and the wood gradually acquires a dead- 
leaf brown tint, while it preserves its aromatic qualities, so that the 
superb columns of the sacrificial temple of the Emperor Yung Lo 
(pi. i), which date from the early part of the fifteenth century, 
still exhale a vague perfume. The pillars are brightened with ver- 
milion and gold, but it is the roof which still attracts most attention, 
in the interior as well as outside, the beams being often gorgeously 
inlaid with colors and the intervening ceiling geometrically divided 
into sunken panels Avorked in relief and lacquered with dragons or 
some other appropriate designs. 

The stability of the structure depends ui)on the wooden framework ; 
the walls, which are filled in afterwards with blocks of stone or brick- 
work, are not intended to figuiv. as supports; the space, in fact, is 
often occupied entirely by doors and windows, carved with elegant 
tracery, of the most flimsy character. A Chinese fabric so far is curi- 
ously analogous to a modern, American building of the newest tyi)e, 
with its skeleton framework of steel filled in with dununy walls. 

The Chinese seem to have a feeling of the innate poverty of their 
architectural designs and strive to break the plain lines with a pro- 
fusion of decoi-ative details. The ridge poles and corners of the 
sagging roofs are covered with finial dragons and long rows of fan- 
tastic animals, arranged after a symbolism known only to the initi- 
ated, the eaves are underlaid with elaborately carved woodwork 




CO 




< o 

_i 

o 



OHTNESE AKCIIirKCIT^IIH. G7\) 

Itrilliiuidy lacciucrcd, the walls arc outlined with hands of terra-cotta 
reliefs molded with liiiures and floral spi-ays: hut in spite of every- 
thiiiii,' the monotony of (he oriainnl type is always apparent. 

Chinese htiildinii's ari> usually one-storied and are dex'elopi'd hori- 
zontally as they are increased in size or nuniher. The pi'inciple which 
<letei'mint's the plan of projection is that of symmetry. The main 
i)uil(lini>s and win£>s, the side huildinji's, the avenues, the coui-tyai'ds, 
the pavilions, the motives of decoration, all the details, in fact, are 
planned symmetrically. The architect only dej)arts from this formal 
rule in the case of sunnner residences and pirdens, Avhich are, on the 
contrary, designed and carried out in the most capricious fashion. 
Here we have pagodas and kiosques elevated at random, detached 
edifices of the most studied irregularity, rustic cottages and one- 
winged pavilions, dotted down in the midst of surroundings of the 
most complicated and artificial nature, composed of rockeries, lakes, 
waterfalls, and running streams spanned by fantastic bridges, with 
an iniexpected surprise at every turn. 

Ruins in China are rare, and we must turn to books to get some 
idea of ancient architecture. The first large buildings described in 
the oldest canonical books are the lofty towers called " t'ai," which 
w^ere usiialy square and built of stone, rising to the height sometimes 
of 300 feet, so that they are stigmatized as ruinous follies of the 
ancient kings. There were three kinds of t'ai, one intended as a 
storehouse for treasures, a second built within a Availed hunting park 
for Avatching military exercises and the pleasures of the chase, and a 
third, the kuan hsiang t'ai, fitted up as an astronomical observatory. 
The Hsia dynasty, of the second millenimn B. C, Avas renoAvned for 
its buildings and irrigation Avorks; their predecessor. Shun, as a 
patron of the potter's art; Avhile among their successors the Shang 
dynasty Avas celebrated for its sacrificial vessels and wine cups, the 
Chou dynasty for the finish of its hunting and Avar chariots. Among 
the later representatiA^es of the t'ai are the towers of the great Avail, 
Avhich are built of stone with arched doors and AvincloAvs — the Chinese 
Avould seem always to haA^e employed the arch in stone architecture — 
the storied buildings dominating the gatcAvays and angles of the city 
Avails, often used to store arms, and the observatory of Peking, 
which is also a square tower mounted upon the city Avail. When 
the tower is planned of oblong section, broader than it is deep, it is 
technically called a '" lou." 

Chinese buildings might be classified as civil, religious, and fime- 
real, but it is more convenient to group all together in the feAV illus- 
trations alloAved in our limited s[)ace. The Hall of the Classics, 
called '"Pi Yung Knng " (pi. ii), was built after an ancient model 
by the Enijx'ror Cli'ien Lung in Peking, adjoining the naticmal 
university called '• Kuo Tzu Chien," where the Temple of Confucius 



680 CHINESE ARCHITECTURE. 

and the stone drums, as described above, are installed. The Emperor 
o-oes there in state on certain occasions to expound the classics, seated 
upon the large throne within the hall, which is backed by a screen 
fashioned in the form of the live sacred mountains. It is a loft}^ 
square buildino- with a four-sided roof covered with tiles enameled 
imperial yelloAV, and surmounted by a large gilded ball, encircled by 
a jMllared veranda under a second projecting roof of yellow tiles. 
The four sides consist each one of seven jxiirs of folding doors with 
tracery panels. It is surrounded by a circular moat with marble 
balustrades, crossed by four bridges leading to the central doors. On 
the sides of the courtyard in which it stands are two long cloistered 
buildings, shehering about '200 upright stone stela> covered with in- 
scriptions over the front or back. The inscriptions comprise the 
complete text of the "nine classics," and were engraved by the 
Emperor Ch'ien Lung, in emulation of the Han and T'ang dynasties, 
both of which had the canonical l)ooks cut in stone at Si An Fu, the 
capital of China in their times. The text is divided on the face of 
the stone into pages of convenient size, so that rubbings may be taken 
on paper and l)ound up in the form of books. It was the custom as 
early as the Han dynasty to take such impressions, a practice Avhich 
may possibly have first suggested the idea of block printing. 

A sundial of antique form is seen mounted on a stone pedestal in 
the foreground of the picture. On the other side of the hall, the 
south, stands a magnificent "porcelain" pailou, resembling the one 
illustrated in plate iii, Avhich spans the avenue leading to Wo Fo Ssu. 
the " temple of the sleeping Buddha," in the western hills near 
Peking. The pedestals and three arches are built of sculptured mar- 
ble, separated by walls of vermilion stucco from the paneled facing 
of faience covering the rest of the structure, which is enameled in 
three colors — yellow, green, and blue — and forms an elaborate frame- 
work for the inscribed tablet of white marble enshrined in the center. 
This tablet, the motive of the erection, displays a short dedicatoi-y 
formula, composed and presented by the Emperor, which is chiseled 
and filled in with red in the actual lines of his original brush work. 
These archways, which are a characteristic feature of Chinese archi- 
tecture, are only erected by special authority. They are generally 
made of wood with tiled roof, and are usually intended as memorials 
of distinguished men and women. Some, however, are built entirely 
of stone, like the innnense gateway with five portals at the avenue 
of the Ming tombs. The stone toran of Indian stupas is doubtless 
the original form from which the Chinese pailou, as well as the 
Japanese tori, is derived. 

One of the grandest and most interesting sights of Peking is the 
Temple of Heaven, which is within the southei'u or Chinese city, sur- 
rounded by stately cypress trees in the midst of a walled park over 



CHTNERE ARCHITECTURE. 681 

3 miles round. Tlu' oxen used in saci-ificc niv kept in the park, and 
there are separate inclosnres j)r()vided for llie other saerifieial ani- 
mals, which include shee}), deer, i)i<>s, and hairs. The consecrated 
meats are jjrcparcd in accordance with an ancient ritual in kitchens 
built for the purpose, to which are attached special slaughterhouses, 
well houses, and stores for veoetables. fruit, corn, and wine. The 
Chinese havi' no idi'a of vicarious sacrifice, the offei-in<rs to their 
supreme deity are like the precious objects, raiment, and foods which 
are set forth in ancestral worship. Heaven is not Avorshiped alone; 
the ancestral tablets of four of the imperial forefathers are always 
associated with the tablet of Shano; Ti, the '• supreme deity," followed 
by those of the sun, moon, planets, and starry constellations, while 
the spirits of the atmosphere, winds, clouds, rain, and thunder are 
rano-ed in subordinate rank below. Heaven is distinguished by the 
ottering of blue jade pi, a foot in diameter, round and with a square 
hole in the middle, like the ancient mace-head symbols of sovereignty, 
and by the bullock being sacrificed as a Avhole burnt offering. The 
jade and silk are also burned; twelve rolls of plain white silk and 
hempen cloth being sacrificed for heaven, one for each of the other 
spirits; while the banquet piled on the altar in dishes of blue por- 
celain is proportionately lavish. 

The great altar of heaven, T'ien T'an, the most sacred of all Chi- 
nese religious structures, is seen in plate rv. It consists of three circu- 
lar terraces with marl)le balustrades and triple staircases at the four 
cardinal points to ascend to the upper terrace, which is 90 feet wide, 
the base being 210 feet across. The platform is laid Avith marble 
stones in nine concentric circles and everything is arranged in mul- 
tiples of the number 0. The Emperor, prostrate before heaven on 
the altar, surrounded first by the circles of the terraces and their 
railings, and then by the horizon, seems to be in the center of the 
universe, as he acknowdedges himself inferior to heaven and to 
heaven alone. Round him on the pavement are figured the nine cir- 
cles of as many heavens, widening in successive multiples till the 
square of 0, the favorite number of numerical philosophy, is reached 
in the outer circle of 81 stones. The great annual sacrifice on 
the altar is at dawn on the winter solstice, the Emperor having 
proceeded in state in a carriage drawn by an elei)hant the day before, 
and spent the night in the hall of fasting called Chai Kung, after 
first inspecting the otlei-ings. The sacred tablets are kept in the 
building with a round roof of blue enameled tiles behind the altar 
Avhich is seen on the right of th(> ])ictuiv. The furnace for the whole 
burnt oil'ering stands on the southeast of the altar, at the distance of 
an arrow flight; it is faced with green tiles, and is !) feet high, 
ascended by three flights of green steps, the bullock being ])laced 
inside upon an iron grating, under which the fire is kindled. The 



682 CHINESE ARCIIITECTUKE. 

rolls of silk arc burned in eight openwork iron urns, stretching from 
the furnaee round to the eastward; an urn is added when an Em- 
peror dies. The praj^ers written upon silk are also burned in these 
urns after they have been formally presented in worship before the 
tablets. 

To the north of the great altar, which is oi^en to the sky, there is a 
second three-tiered marble altar conceived in similar lines, but some- 
what smaller, called tlie " Ch'i Ku T'an," or " altar of prayer for 
grain." This is dominated by the imposing triple-roofed temple 
presented in plate v, which is covered with tiles of deep cobalt blue 
shining in the sunlight so as to nudve it the most conspicuous object 
in the city. The name of this edifice, as set forth on the framed 
plaque fixed under the eaves of the upper roof, in Manchu and Chi- 
nese script, is Ch'i Nien Tien (temple of prayer for the year). The 
Emperor goes there early each j^ear in spring to make offerings for 
a propitious year. It is 99 feet high, the upper roof supported by 
four stately j^illars, the lower roofs by two circles of 12 pillars, all 
straight trunks of nam-mu trees recently brought up from the south- 
west, when the temple had to be rebuilt after its destruction by fire. 
Originally founded by the Emperor Ch'ien Lung, it was rebuilt dur- 
ing the present reign in every detail after the old plan. During the 
ceremonies inside everything is blue; the sacrificial utensils are of 
blue porcelain, the worshippers are robed in blue brocades, even the 
atmosphere is blue, Venetians made of thin rods of blue glass, strung- 
together by cords, being hung down over the tracery of the doors and 
windows. Color symbolism is an important feature of Chinese 
rites; at the temple of earth all is yellow; at the temple of the sun, 
red; at the temple of the moon, white, or rather the pale grayish 
blue which is known as " yueh pai," or moonlight white, pure white 
being reserved for mourning. The altar of the earth, Ti T'an, is on 
the north of the city, outside the city wall, and is square in form; 
the oiferings are buried in the ground instead of being burned. The 
temples of the sun and moon are on the east and west and ai-e also 
outside the city wall of Peking; the princes of the l)lood are usually 
dejiuted by the Emperor to officiate at these. 

A good illustration of the t'ing, which is so characteristic of Chinese 
architecture, has Ixhmi given in plate i, from a photograph of the large 
sacrificial hall of the Emperor Yung Lo. The tombs of the Ming 
dynasty, called colloquially " 8hih-san Ling," ''Tombs of the Thir- 
teen (Emi)erors)," are. as the name indicates, the last resting i)laces 
of thirteen of the Ming P'.mperors. The first was buried at Nanking, 
his capital : Ihc last near a Buddhist temple on a hill west of Peking, 
by command of the Manchu rulers when they obtained the Empire. 
The Emperor Yung Lo (U0;'>-1424), who made Peking his cajiital, 
choose this beautiful valley foi- (he mausoleum of his houses It is 



Smithsonian Report, 1904.— BushelL 



Plate V. 




Temple of Heaven, Ch'i Nien Tien, Southern City. PtMNu. 



Sini-thsorian Report, 1 904— Bushell 



Plate VI. 




Shrine and Altar of Confucius, Confucian Temple, Peking. 



(UITNKSE AMCIiriKCrUUE. ()S.H 

6 miles long, 30 miles distant from Pokiiii;; to the uortli, and the 
imperial tonihs are in se])arate walled inclosiiri's. dotting tin; slojx-s 
of the wooded liills wliich skirl the valley. 

The avenue, with its row of colossal stone figures, has been noticed 
in the last chapter. At the end of the avenue one comes to a triple 
gateway leading to a court with a suuiller hall, and passes through 
to reach the main courtyard with the large sacrificing hall, where, by 
order of the Manchn Emperors, offerings are still presented to the 
long-deceased ruler of a fallen dynasty by one of his lineal descend- 
ants selected for the purpose. The hall is momited upon a terrace, 
with three balustrades of carved marble extending all around, as- 
cended bv three fliglits of 18 steps in front and behind, leading to three 
portals with folding doors of tracery. It is TO 3^ards long by 30 deep, 
Avith a massive tiled roof supported by eight rows of four pillars 
each. The columns, of Persea nanmu wood, are 12 feet around at the 
base and over 00 feet high to the true roof, under which there is a 
lower ceiling, about 35 feet from the floor, made of wood in sunken 
square panels painted in bright colors. The ancestral tablet is kept 
in a yelloAv roofed shrine mounted upon a dais, with a large carved 
screen in the background, and in front stands a sacrificial table with 
an incense urn, a pair of pricket candlesticks, and a pair of flower 
vases ranged in line upon it. Leaving this magnificent hall and pass- 
ing through another court, planted like those joreceding, with pines, 
arbor-vitie trees, and oaks, one comes to the actual tomb. A subter- 
ranean passage 40 yards long leads to the tumulus, the door of which 
is closed by masonry, but flights of steps east and Avest lead to the 
top of the grave terrace. Here, in front of the mound and innnedi- 
ately above the coffin passage, is the tombstone, an immense upright 
slab, mounted upon a tortoise, inscribed with the posthumous title, 
'• Tomb of the Emperor Ch'eng Tsu AVen."' The tumulus is more 
than half a mile in circuit, and, though artificial, looks like a natural 
hill, Ixung planted Avith trees to the top, among which the large- 
leafed oak {Qiu'.rciiH hiDtf/eana), on which wild silkworms are fed, 
is conspicuous. 

The usiml ])araphernalia of the shrine of an ancestral temple are 
seen in plate vr, Avhich is a view of the interior of the Confucian 
temple in the Kuo Tzu Chien, the old national university of Peking. 
'J'he ancestral tablet is seen dimly in the center of the picture en- 
shrined in an alcove between two pillars. The tablet, 2 feet o inches 
high and (> inches broad, mounted upon a pedestal 2 feet high, is in- 
scribed in gold letters ui)on a huHjuerfd vermilion ground in Manchu 
and ('hinese, "The tablet of the spirit of the nu)st holy ancestral 
teacher, Confucius." 'J'he pillars are hung with laudatory couplets, 
r.nd the beams with dedicatoi-y inscrii)tions,one of which is penciled by 
each succeeding Emperor in token of his veneration for the sage. The 



684 CHINESE AKCniTECTURE. 

line of four laroe characters above, for example, AYan shih shih piao, 
" the model teacher of myriad ayes," Avas composed and Avritten by 
the Empei-or K'ang Hsi in the twenty-fourth year of his reign (A. I). 
1685), and is authenticated by his seal attached to the inscription. 
The wn kung ("sacrificial set of five"), comprising incense urn. 
pricket candlesticks, and flower vases made of bronze, is here posed on 
separate stands of white marble. In front of all is the tal)le ready 
for the sacrificial offerings, which are regularly })resented at spring 
and autumn. The rest of the large hall is lined Avith tablets of Tseng 
Tzu, Mencius, and the other distinguished sages and disciples of Con- 
fucius, Avhose spirits are officially Avorshiped in turn on the same cer- 
emonial occasions. 

The ornamental lines of an open garden pavilion, Avhich also comes 
under the general heading of t'ing, are fairly exhibited in plate vii. in 
spite of the half-ruined conditi(m of the picturesque structure, as it 
appeared Avhen it Avas photographed after the destruction of the sum- 
mer palace during the Anglo-French expedition of ISGO. It stands 
on the border of the lake at Wan Shou Shan, having recently been 
repaired for the Em])ress Dowager, Avho has tea served there foi" her 
European guests, brought from Peking in state barges toAved by steam 
tugs. It is hung Avith bronze bells Avhich tinkle softly in the breeze. 
The central building, as Avell as the tAvo pailous spanning the aA'enues 
through Avhich it is approache<l, has its AvoodAvork gaily decorated 
Avith painted scrolls, relieved l)y graceful bands of open fret, and it is 
roofed over all Avith a'cHoav enameled tiles. Notice the stone mon- 
sters at the four corners mounted upon short octagonal pillars with 
decorated capitals, AA'hich might be i-emote descendants of the ancient 
Hindu lion pillars of Asoka's time molded on modern Chinese lines. 

A vieAV of the K'un-ming Hu, the lake AAdiich has just been referred 
to, is given in plate viir. The name c(mies doAvn from the Han 
dynasty, Avhen it Avas giA'en to a lake near Si-an Fu, the metropolis of 
the period in the Province of Shensi, on Avhich the P^mperor Wn Ti 
had a fleet of Avar junks maneuA'ering to exercise the sailors for the 
conquest of Cochin China. The present lake, Avhich is 4 miles in cir- 
cuit, has been the first of the inland Avaters of China to have modern 
armed steamers in its Avaters, when the Em])ress DoAvager had a 
revicAv of model ships built at her connnand the year before the 
Boxer troubles. The im[)erial pavilion, erected by the Emperor 
Ch'ien Lung on the spot Avliere the best vicAv of the lake was to l)e 
obtained, is a prominent object in the picture. He Avas fond of 
inditing vei'ses, and a faA'orite ode of his comi)Osition on the beauty 
of the surrounding s(;ene is incised there on a marl)le stele. 

The l)ronze ox in the foreground was also molded under his 
auspices, and it is inscribed, as may l)e seen in the ])ictu)'e, with 
dedicat(jry stanzas written by the imperial brush, which are printed 



Smithsonian Report, 1 904.— Bushell. 



Plate X. 








Bronze Buddhist Shrine at Wan Shou Shan, Imperial Summer Palace, 

NEAR Peking. 



CIUNKSK, AlU'IirrKCTUKK. f585 

ill (lie oniciiil tlc^criplion of IV'Uiiig. Tiic ox, as (he chief agricul- 
turnl aiiiuial, has been sacred in China from (he earliest times, and 
it still has a foremost place in rustic si)rini2: ceremonial, l)ein<!j 
molded in clay for the purj)ose. The verses, which ai-e too lon<^ to 
be quoted in full, relate how the P^mperor has taken as his model the 
ancient Yu of Ilsia, whose eulogy was handed down on an iron ox 
after he had carried oft' the i-iver floods, how he has propitiated the 
sacred ox, a constellation of the zodiac, the queller of dragcms and 
rivei- numsters, and installed its figure here to preside forever over 
the irrigation channels which he has {\n<i, for the benefit of the 
villagers, concluding w'ith the peroration: 

Men itraisi' the warrior oni])oror of the Han, 

Wo ])refer as our cxaiuplc the .iiu-iont Yao of T'ang. 

The niarl)le bridge of IT arches in the picture is a i-cMuarkable 
exani[)lc of the fine stone bridges for which the neighborhood of 
Peking has been celebrated since Marco Polo described the many- 
arclied bridge of Pulisanghin, witli its marble parapets cnnvned Avith 
lions, which spans the river Hunho and is still visible from the hills 
which form the background of the summer palace. Our bridge, 
which was built in the twentieth year of Ch'ien Lung (A. D. 1755), 
leads from the cemented causew^ay to an island in the lake Avitli an 
ancient temple dedicated to the dragon god and called liung Shen 
Ssii, the name of which was changed by Ch'ien Lung to Kuang Jun 
Ssii, the " Temple of Broad Fertility," because the Emperor, as a 
devout Buddhist, objected to the deification of the Naga Raja, the 
traditional enemy of the faith. 

A characteristic bridge of different form on the western border of 
the lake is illustrated in plate ix. This is called, from its peculiar 
shape, the Lo-ko Ch'iao or Hunchback Bridge, and has only one 
arch, 30 feet high, with a span of 24 feet. Its height allows the 
imperial barges to pass underneath w^ithout lowering their masts, 
and it is withal one of the most picturesque features of the landscape. 

A bronze temple which stands on the southern slope of the hill 
of Wan Shou Shan is seen in plate x. It is 20 feet high, double 
roofed, and designed in the usual lines, but every detail is executed 
in bronze, the pillars, beams, tiles, tracery of doors and windows, 
and all ornamental appendages having been previously molded 
in metal. This is one of the fcAV buihlings which defied the fire in 
I860. It stands on a marble foundation with carved railings and 
steps, which are piled with bricks and bushes to keep off pilferers of 
the valualde material. The miniature stupa. oi- dagaba, which crowns 
the crest of the roof, is an attribute of a Buddhist building, and this 
one, in fact, is intended to be a shrine for the historical Buddha, as it 
contains a gilded image of Sakyamuni enthi-oned on a lotus thalamus, 
with the usual set of utensils for burning incense. 



686 CHINESE ARCHITECTURE. 

The pagoda illustrated in plate xi from the gTouiids of the impe- 
rial summer palace of Yuan-ming Yuan is a fine example of archi- 
tectural work in glazed faience, in the style of the famous porcelain 
tower of Nanking. The Nanking pagoda was razed to the ground 
by tlie Taiping rebels in the year 1854, but specimens of the tiles and 
ornamental fixtures are preserved in the museum. Tlie practice of 
facing buildings, inside as well as outside, with slabs or tiles of 
faience coated with colored glazes is very ancient in Asia. The pro- 
cessions of archers and lions lining the w^alls of the staircases of the 
palaces of Darius at Susa are striking examples of early date, and 
the art was further developed in the decoration of the mosques and 
tombs of Persia and Transoxiana during the middle ages. It dates 
in China from the later Han dynasty, during Avhich green glazed 
pottery first came into vogue, and "was revived in the earlier half of 
the fifth century, when artisans are recorded to have come from the 
Yueli-ti, an In do-Scythian kingdom on the northwestern frontiers of 
India, and to have taught the Chinese the art of making different 
kinds of liu-li, or colored glazes. The center of the manufacture to- 
day is Po-shan Ilsien, in the province of Shantung, where slabs and 
rods of colored frits are produced, to be exported to all parts of the 
country, Avhenever required for the decoration of cloisonne and 
painted enamels on metal, porcelain, or faience. The imperial pot- 
teries for this kind of work are established in a valley of the western 
hills near Peking, as well as in the mountains in the vicinity of Muk- 
den, the capital of Manchuria. Figures of Buddha and other temple 
divinities are fabricated at these works, as well as the many kinds of 
antefixal ornaments, facings, and colored tiles required for imperial 
buildings. AYhen a suite of European palaces Avas designed by the 
Jesuits Attiret and Castiglione for Yuan-ming Yuan, enameled 
fountains, elaborate screens with trophies, helmets and shields, balus- 
trades with ornamental flowerpots and the like were executed at these 
potteries in orthodox Italian style. 

The glazes used in the decoration of this pagoda are five in number: 
xV deep purplish blue derived from a com2)ound of cobalt and man- 
ganese silicates ; a rich green from copper silicate ; a yellow, approach- 
ing the tint of the yolk of an egg, from antimony; a sang de Ixieuf red 
from copper mixed Avith a deoxidizing flux, and a charming turquoise 
blue derived from copper combined with niter. The last two are 
more sparingly employed than the rest. The fivefold combination is 
intended' to suggest the five jewels of the Buddhist paradise. A 
jeweled pagoda, pao t'a, of portentous dimensions, is supposed, in the 
Buddhist cosmos, to tower uinvard from the central peak of the 
sacred mount Meru, to pierce the loftiest heaven, and to illuminate 
the boundless ether with effulgent rays proceeding from the three 



Smithsonian Report. 1904.— Bushell. 



Plate XI. 



.^^rr*r7 *>•/"; 




/" 








Porcelain Pagoda, Yuan Ming Yuan, Imperial Summer Palace, near 

Peking, 



Smithsonian Report, 1 904 — Bushell. 



Plate XII. 




Pagoda, Ling Kuang Ssu, Western Hills, near Peking. 
Seventh Century. 



CJIINESE ARCllITECTUKE. ()87 

jewels of (he law and the rev()lvin<»: wheel with which ii is crowned. 
S|)cciilativ(> ^yniholisni of this kind is cari'ied out in the form of the 
l)at2:<Kla. The hase, four-sided, rei)resenls the abode of the four ma- 
harajas, the oreat auardian kin<2;s of the four (luartei-s, whose figures 
are seen enthroned here within the open arches. The center, octa- 
jronal, represents the Tushita heaven, with eight celestial gods, Indra, 
Agni, and the rest, standing outside as pi-otectors of the eight points 
of the compass; this is the ])aradise of the liodhisats prior to their 
final descent to the human world as Buihihas. and Maitreya, the com- 
ing Buddha, dwells here. The u[)i)er storv. circular in form, repre- 
MMits the highest heaven, in which the liuddhas reside after attaining 
complete enlightenment; the figures in niches are the five celestial 
Buddhas, or Jinas, seated on lotus pedestals. 

The ordinary i)agO(hi of I-"') stories, octagonal in section, solidly 
built of brick u]:»on massive stone foundations, is seen in i)hite xii. 
This one, which dates from the end of the seventh century, is attached 
to the temple of Lingdvuang Ssu, in the western hills near Peking, 
and it is plainly visible from the top of the city wall 12 miles distant. 
It is not certain, however, whether it be still standing, as it was unfor- 
tunately condennied to l>e blown up by dynamite in li)0(), because the 
Boxers had made this temple their headquarters. The Buddhist 
monks have always chosen the most picturesque spots for their mon- 
asteries, and there are no less than eight temples on the slope of this 
particular hill, which is about 800 feet high, and many more in the 
vicinity. Some have imperial traveling palaces, called Hsing Kung, 
in adjoining courts; all have guest rooms, k\) t'ang, as part of the 
original plan for the entertainment of strangers and passing pilgrims. 

The general plan of a Buddhist temple resembles that of a secular 
residence, consisting of a series of rectangular courts, proceeding 
from south to north, with the principal edifice in the center and the 
lesser buildings at the sides. A pair of carved stone lions guard the 
entrance, flanked by lofty twin columns of wood which are mounted 
with banners and lanterns on high days and holidays. The gateway 
is large and roofed to form a vestibule, in which are ranged, on either 
side, gigantic figures of the four great kings of the devas, Ssu ta 
t'ien wang, guarding the four quarters ; while in the middle are gen- 
erally enshrined small effigies of Maitreya, the Buddhist Messiah, 
conceived as an obese Chinaman with protruberant belly and smiling 
features, and of Kuan Ti, the state god of war, a deified warrior, 
represented as a mailed figure in the costume of the Han period, 
seated in a chair. 

Passing through the vestibule, one sees on either side of the first 
court a pair of square pavilions containing a bronze bell and a huge 
wooden drum, and in front the main hall of the temple, called Ta 



688 CHINESE ARCHITECTURE. 

hsiiing pao tioii. Hu» ''jeweled palace of the great hero" — that is to 
sa}', Sakyamiuii, the historical PuKldha. He is always the central 
figure of the imposing triad enthroned upon lotus pedestals inside; 
the two others are usually Ananda and Kasyapa, his two favorite 
disciples. Along the side Avails are ranged life-size figures of the 
eighteen Arhans (Lolian), with their varied attributes, disciples who 
have attained the stage of emancipation from rebirth. Behind the 
principal court there is often another secluded courtyard sacred to 
Kuan Yin, the " goddess of mercy," where Chinese ladies throng to 
offer petitions and make votive offerings. Avalokitesvara (Kuan 
Yin) is installed here in the central hall, often supported by two 
other Bodhisattvas, Maiijusri (Wen-shu), the "god of wisdom," and 
Samantabhadra (Pu-hsien). the '"all-good." The surrounding walls 
are usuall}^ studded with innumerable small figures of celestial bod- 
hisats, tier upon tier, molded in gilded bronze or clay, and posed in 
niches. The wing buildings in this court are devoted to the de- 
ceased inmates of the monaster}^, and contain portraits and relics of 
bygone abbots and monks. The side cloisters are two-storied in the 
large temples, the treasures of the monastery being stored above, as 
well as libraries, blocks for printing books, and the like. 

An outer wall encircles the whole, inclosing besides a stretch of the 
hill slope, which affords am]:)le space for the separate accommodation 
of the higher dignitaries of the establishment, for kitchens and 
stables, storehouses of fruit and grain, open pavilions for sipping tea 
and enjoying the view, and secluded quarters in terraced villas for 
the residence of occasional visitors. 

The Buddhist triad displayed in plate xiii was taken from the in- 
terior of the large hall of the temple called Huang Ssu, which was 
built by the founder of the reigning ISlanchu dynasty for the resi- 
dence of the fifth Grand Lama of Tibet, when the high dignitary 
came on a visit to Peking in the year 1647, and to which the stupa 
shown in plates xiv-xv is attached. This is a lama temple, and 
the large images of gilded bronze represent Avalokita, Manjusri, and 
Vajrapani, seated upon lotus pedestals, the smaller standing figures 
being two attendant bodhisats carrying the alms bowl and choAvry 
brush. The five little images posed in line in front of the pedestal 
of Avalokita represent the celestial Buddhas, Amitabha and the rest, 
and an image of Sakyamuni, the earthly reflex of Amitabha, is 
mounted in front. The massive altar tables and the sacrificial uten- 
sils and ritual symbols placed up(m them are all chiseled in marble. 
The canoi)ie(l background of the large figures is carved in wood and 
gilded, with the aureole encircled by a frieze of elephants, lions, and 
mythical animals, culminating in coiling dragons, overawed by 
cherul)-like garudas, which brood over the three jeAvels of the faith, 
the whole being enveloped in a broad, rolling band of scrolled flames. 



Smithsonian Renort, 1904— Bushell. 



Plate XIV. 




Stupa of Sculptured Marble, Pai T'a SsO, Peking. Eighteenth Century. 



CHINESE ARCHITECTURE. 689 

The difFerence between Laniaisin and the ordinnrv fonii of ('liinese 
Buddhism is shown most, str()ni2:ly by their discordant conc('j)(ions of 
Maitreya, the eomin«i^ Bnddha. ITis Chinese statuette lias been de- 
scribed above, under th(^ name of Mih) Vo, as it is placed in the vesti- 
bule of a tenijde, and he is. besides, worshiped at many pi-ivate 
houses and sliops, so that he is almost as i)oi)ular a divinity with men 
at Kuan ^'in, the so-called "goddess of mercy," is with Chinese 
women. In Japan Hotei, the merry monk witli a hempen l)ag, is 
claimed by some to be an incarnation of the Bodhisat Maitreya, and 
is endowed tliere with national traits in the spirit of playful rever- 
ence which characterizes the Japanese artist. The Lanui conception 
of Maitreya, on the contrary, is that of a dignified and colossal fig- 
ure, robed as a prince, with the jeweled coronet of a bodhisat, tower- 
ing above the other crests of the roofs of a lamasery, or occasionally 
carved on the face of a cliff. There is a gigantic image of Maitreya 
in the Yung Ho Kung, at Peking, made of wood, over TO feet high, 
the body of which passes through several successive stories of the 
lofty building in which it is installed. The devout votary must 
climb a number of winding staircases to circumambulate the sacred 
effigy in the orthodox way, till he finally reaches the immense head. 
Yung Ho Kung was the residence of the Elmperor Yung Cheng be- 
fore he came to the throne, and it was dedicated to the Lama Church, 
in accordance with the usual custom, when he succeeded in 1T2'2. 
When the Emperor visits the temple a lamp is lit over the head of 
Maitreya, and a huge praying wheel on the left, which reaches up- 
ward as high as the inuige, is set in motion on the occasion. The 
resident lamas, mostly jNIongols, number some 1,500, under the rule 
of a Gegen, or living Buddha, of Tibetan birth, who rejoices in the 
title of Changcha-Hutuktu Lalitavajra. An excellent portrait of 
this dignitary, from a miniature on silk, is given in l*rof. A. (Jrun- 
wedel's Buddhist Art in India. 

Lamaism may be said to rank as the state church of the reigning 
Manchu dynasty. The Bama temple illustrated in plate xvi was built 
by the Emperor K'ang Hsi, in the vicinity of the summer residence 
at Jehol, outside the Great Wall of China, where Earl Macartney 
Avas received by the grandson of the founder in 1793. The temple is 
built in the style of the famous palace-temple of Potala at Lassa, the 
residence of the Dalai Lama. But the resemblance is only super- 
ficial ; deceptive as it may be when seen at a distance from one of the 
pavilions in the Imperial Park, on closer inspection the apparently 
storied walls prove to be a mere shell, with doors and windows all 
unj^erforated. The temple buildings erected upon the hill behind, 
the double roofs of which appear above the walls in the picture, are 
SM 1904 44 



690 CHINESE ARCHITECTURE. 

really planned in the conventional lines of the t'ing and finished 
after the ordinary canons of Chinese architecture. 

The j)ictiiresque stone structure illustrated in plate xvii, which is 
commonly called " Wu T'a Ssu," or the " Five-Towered Temple," is 
situated 2 miles west of Peking. It is said to be a copy of the ancient 
Indian Buddhist Temple of Buddhagaya, as explained in the follow- 
ing sketch of its history. In the early part of the reign of Yung Lo 
(1403-1424) a Hindu sramana of high degree named Pandita came 
to Peking and was given an audience by the Emperor, to Avhom he 
presented golden images of the five Buddhas, and a model in stone 
of the diamond throne, the vajrasana of the Hindus, the chin kang 
pao tso of the Chinese, being the name of the memorial temple 
erected on the spot where Sakyamuni attained his Buddhahood, which 
has recently been restored under British auspices. The Emperor 
appointed him state hierarch, conferred on him a gold seal, and 
fitted up for him as a residence the " True Bodhi " temple in the 
w^est of Peking, wdiich had been founded during the preceding Mon- 
gol dynasty, promising at the same time to erect there a reproduction 
in stone of the model temple which he had brought with him, as a 
shrine for the sacred images. 

The new temple was not, however, finished and dedicated till the 
eleventh month of the cyclical year kuei ssu (1473), of the reign of 
Ch'eng Hua, according to the marble stele set up beside it, which was 
inscribed by the emperor on the occasion. This states that in dimen- 
sions as well as in every detail it was an exact reproduction of the 
celebrated diamond throne of Central India. The temple is sur- 
rounded by a carved stone railing of Indian design, which is hidden 
by the wall in the picture, and which is surmounted by a stone fenc- 
ing. The body of the temple, about 50 feet high, is square and of 
solid construction, composed of 5 tiers of stones carved with Buddhas 
seated in niches. Inside the arched doorway, right and left, are two 
staircases jiiercing the solid stonework and leading to the flat plat- 
form above, which displays in prominent relief a pair of Buddha's 
footprints and an infinite variety of symbols and Sanscrit letters 
strange to Chinese architecture. Within the five pagodas of Indian 
form, the central one larger than the rest, Avhich are posed on the 
platform, the golden Buddhas brought from India are said to be 
enshrined, Avhile their figures are re])eated in stone and sunk in niches 
on the four sides of the walls outside each pagoda. For a description 
of the original temple reference may be made to Gen. Sir A. Cun- 
ningham's book, Mahabodhi, or the Great Buddhist Temple under 
the Bodhi Tree at Buddha-Gaya, London, 1892. 

Taoist temples are built upon the same general plan as the temples 
dedicated to the Buddhist cult. The adherents of Lao Tzu have bor- 
rowed from the Buddhist bonzes the interior decoration of their sacred 



CHINESE ARCHITECTURE. 691 

halls, as well as the ])las(i(' rcpiTstMitatiou of divinities, (he wor- 
ship of idols, and many of their ritual ceremonies. The Buddhist 
triad is replaced l)y an iin|)()sin<i- triad of supreme deities called Shang 
Ti, who preside o^■er the jade paradise of the Taoist heavens; statues 
of Lao Tzii and of the S innnortals, called Pa Hsien, are posed in 
prominent places; and there are separate shrines for the 3 star gods 
of happiness, rank, and longevity, and for a multitude of lesser lights 
of the faith whose name is legion. Tlie sacrificial vases, candlesticks, 
and incense burners, as -well as the other ritual surroundings, bear 
distinctive Taoist symbols and emblems. 

This slight sketch of Chinese architecture may be closed by a brief 
reference to Mohammedanism, -which counts in China some 25,000,000 
adherents, so that the emperor rules as man}^ Mnslim subjects as the 
British raj, about as many as the Sultan of Turkey and Shah of 
Persia together. There are about 20,000 Muslim families in Peking, 
with 11 mosques. Many of their shops and eating houses are marked 
with the sign of the crescent, and they have almost a monopoly of cer- 
tain trades, including drivers of carts and pack mules, horse dealers, 
butchers, and public bath keepers. Every large city has its mosque, 
the Chinese name of which, Li Pai Ssii, or " temple of ritual worship," 
has been generally adopted by Protestant missionaries for their 
churches. The most ancient Chinese mosque is that of the " Sacred 
Souvenir " at Canton, which is said to have been founded by Saad- 
ibn-abu-Waccas, maternal uncle of Mohammed, who is supposed to 
have come to Canton to preach Islamism. This mosque was certainly 
in existence in the ninth centur}^, when there was an Arabian colony 
in Canton. It was burned down in 1341, rebuilt soon after, and 
again thoroughly restored in 1699. 

Chinese mosques resemble Buddhist temples in the fact that there 
is nothing in their exterior to indicate the foreign origin of the 
religion to wdiich they belong. They are of Chinese style throughout; 
with the exception of lines of verses from the Koran Avritten on 
the interior walls in Arabic script in the intervals of intricate scrolls 
of the usual Muslim fornuda, which form the only motives of 
decoration. The main building is divided into five naves by three 
rows of wooden pillars, the JMirhab, or wang-yu-lo, being at the end 
of the central nave. The general impression, on entering, is one of 
severe simplicity, contrasting strongly with the interior of a Buddhist 
or Taoist temple full of gilded images and embroidered hangings. 
The only furniture is one broad table of wood, carved in ordinary 
Chinese style, near the entrance, on which is posed on a pedestal the 
inevitable imperial tablet with the inscription " Wan sui wan wan 
sui " (a myriad vears, a myriad, myriad years), which is ofHcially 
prescribed for every temple, no matter w^hat the faith, as a pledge 
of the loyalty of the worshippers. An incense-burning apparatus 



692 CHINESE ARCHITECTURE. 

in bronze of three pieces — the conventional " Set of Three " (San 
Shih), composed of a tripod urn, a round box with cover, and a vase 
to hold tools, all chased with Arabic scrolls — usuallj^ stands on the 
same table. 

One of these Mohammedan incense burners is illustrated in plate 
xviii. It is of cast bronze, shaped as a shallow bowl, with two 
monster-head handles, standing on three feet, also ornamented with 
masks of monsters. The sides, encircled above and below by rows of 
bosses suggestive of rivets, are engraved in two panels with foliated 
edges with Muslim inscriptions in debased Arabic, executed in relief 
on a punched ground. It is marked inside with tAvo dragons inclosing 
the seal " Ta Ming Hsiian Te nien chih," i. e ., made in the reign of 
Hsiian Te (A. D. 1426-1435) of the great Ming dynasty. On the 
base, underneath, is another seal mark inscribed " Xui fan chiao 
she," i. e., for tutelary worship at the inner altar. 

In the same courtyard as the mosque there are side buildings which 
serve as cloisters for the mullahs and the other resident officials, 
including usually a school where young Muslims are taught the ele- 
ments of their religion from books printed in Chinese Turkistan, 
where the natives are all Mohammedans. There is, as a general rule, 
no minaret in Chinese mosques; the nniezzin calls out the time of 
prayer from the entrance gateway. A half-ruined gateway of 
unusual height is illustrated in plate xix. It belongs to a mosque 
built close outside the palace wall, within the city of Peking, by the 
Emperor Ch'ien I^ung, for the benefit of a favorite concubine, a 
princess of the old royal line of Kashgaria, so that she might hear 
the call to prayer from a pavilion built for her, just opposite, on a 
hillock inside the wall of the prohibited palace. The Emperor tells 
the story himself on a marble stele erected by him in the precincts 
of the mosque with a triangular inscription, engraved in three scripts, 
Manchu, Chinese, and Turki, which has been translated in the Jour- 
nal Asiatique by Monsieur Devcria. 



Smithsonian Report, 1 904.— Bushell. 



Plate XVII. 




flve-toa^ered temple, wu t'a ssu, near peking. copy of 
Mahabodhi at Buddha-Gaya. Fifteenth Century. 




s s 



Smithsonian Report, 1 904.— Bushell. 



Plate XIX. 




Ruined Gateway of a Mosque, Imperial City, Peking. 
Eighteenth Century. 



I 



PEWTER AND THE REVIVAL OF ITS USE." 



By AkTIIIR LaSKNIJY r.IliKUTY. 



Taking first a wide survey of the whole subject, it will be remem- 
bered that the advanrages of using an alloy in (he working of metals 
appear to have been known and appreciated at a most remote period 
m the history of the liuman race, and that not only does such process 
coml)ine the different excellencies of the tAVo or more metals used, but 
the cohesion and consequent strength of the alloy is generally found 
greater than either of the metals considered separately, instead of, as 
might be supposed, resulting in the exact mean strength of the two or 
more metals employed. It is considered most probable, too, I believe, 
that the first discovery of metals was due to the accidental presence 
of ore in the stones used in primitive hearths and fireplaces, and that, 
consequently, the more readily fusible metals, such as copper, tin. 
and lead, Avere those first known, and of these, copper being the most 
widely diffused, is supposed to be the first metal used by man. Cop- 
per is, however, rather difficult to cast, and it must have been one of 
the most notable discoveries made by our primeval forefathers, that 
by a small admixture of tin an alloy was produced that could be 
easily cast, was capable of being finished to a smooth surface with 
sandstone or a file, and was very much harder than the original cop- 
per itself. Weapons and instruments made of this alloy — that is to 
say, of bronze — are, therefore, as is well known, characteristic of the 
early stages of civilization — the termination of the stone age showing 
occasional evidence of the use of pure copper. In later, as well as 
probably in prehistoric times, large quantities of the red metal coj:)])er 
were obtained from Cyprus (whence is probably due its modern 
name). AA^iile almost as far back as 4000 B. C, according to Mi". 
Flinders Petrie, the Egyptians are said to have worked copper mines 
in the peninsula of Sinai for the production of bronze. But the 
question, I believe, is still an open one as to where the ancients de- 
rived their supplies of tin. Tin, however, is mentioned among the 

a Address before the Applied Art Section of the Society for the Encouragro- 
uient of Arts, Manufactures, and Cohiiihm-cc. London, May 17, 1904. Reprinted 
from the Journal of the Society of Arts. June 10, 1904. 

693 



i\\)\ 



n';\\'i'i'',ij \Nit 111 I', i;i',\i\' \i, (H' irs iisi'i 



spoils liilvcii rnnn lli<> M idiiiiiilfs, mihI it liiis Imhmi cod jccliircd lli:il il 
\V!is niiiH'd ill ^diiic di^lncl of ('ciilr:!! Asin, hccMiisc il is mIso cliiiiiicd 
(() li;i\(' Ix'cii known (ilioii^li wlicfc nl)l;iiii('d is iiol clcnr) id :iii 
('((iiidl\ r:irly dale ill ( 1i ii;i. Mild I Ixdicvcs iilso, in 1 1 indiis(:iii. 

,\( :i l:it('i' d:il(', l>ii( slill Ixd'orc llic riitrniciiiiis h;nl siiilcd hcvoiid 
llic |)ill;irs<d" Ilcrcidcs, tin \\:is iiih|ii('-;( ionidtly slii|»|»cd from 'I'lii'lcs 
SIIS ill (he solllli (d" Spnili. ;i lociditv ^ciicr:! II y idciililird ;is (lie Tiir 
sinsli of llic l)(M»k (»r l*'/,('ki('l. Slill hitcr, ;is we nil know, llic sninc 
(•iilcr|)i'isinn" ii:i\ ii^Mlofs Inidcd for tin lo ('oriiw;ill ;iiid l)('\on. tlit' 
(\)niisli |)(«iiiiisiil;i, indeed, heinii' itK'iil ilicd l)V (lie (Jrccks solely willi 
I liiil uielMJ, :ind ii:inie(| hy IIhmii '• ( 'iissilerides," I he kiiul of I in, :i 1 il le 
wliieli, in \ iew of llie colli inii;inf<' :iiid rielmess in llie siipply of lliis 
nieliil, il niijU'hl jiislili;d)ly li;i\'e reliiined lo days williin Inin^j^^ mem 
(My. l>ron/,e lieinn' (liend'oi'e llie earliesl known allow i( may, per 
liaps, l»e peiinisMl>l(> lo suppose lliat llie iincntioii of pewler was due 
lo an aeeideiilal re\cisal of llie l)r()ii/,e-makin<:; pi'oeess llial is lo 
say, a small (pianlily (d" eopper heiiii:^' mixed willi a lai'ii'e proporlion 
of lin. I >e lliis as il may, such an alloy was siihseciiieni ly discovered 
and found lo |)ossess much «ji,realer loiiyhness and malleahilily Ihan 
Ihe piii'e whil(> melal, and proved nol lo he allecled hy I he acid cd' 
wine or xiiien'ai* (as is hroii/e). Il wa--, loo, holh in appearance 
and dnrahilily, lo a cerlaiii exieiil a |)assal)le siihsliliile for the rarer 
melal. silver. Il has even heen sii^ncsled as prohahle llial Ihe " lin "' 
iiieiilioiied hy lloiiier ill his descriplion of Ihe shield of Achilles, ihe 
"(in" s(ii(iu> of Da'dalus I'ld'ei'red lo by Arislolle, and olher similar 
arlislie works de^ci'ihed hy ancient wrilers, was in realily a kind of 
pewler, since pure lin is wvy hrillle, especially al certain lem|)era 
(ni'es, and nol al all adaptable lor workine- ('asily with the hammer. 

I'laiilns menlioiis pewler dishes as heine- iis(>d al a haii(|nel, and 
(lalen recommends the keepinii' cd' antidotes and other di'iiii'S in \'es- 
sels of ^lass, silvei", or pewler. Il vvonld tvxeeed the bounds of this 
papei', however, to atlempt to follow llu> not too easily traceable his 
lory of pewler throii^^h the classic to the middle aii'es; alllioiii;ii I 
wish to call passing atb'niion to some illustrations of pewter vessels 
fntm the (>xlremely interi'stini!,' collection of Komano British pt'vvter 
now ill the Hiilish Museum. Il will siillice to mention thai the craft 
existed in th(> early days of (irtu'ce and lu)nu\ was never absolub^ly 
lost, i>ven in the dark ai:«>s, ami was praeticiMl, moi't* or less, in Saxon 
and Noriiian limes in I'Jii^land as well as on the ('onlinenl. In medi 
:eval days Ihe |)i'incipal patrons wer<', of course, the «'hurch, espe 
eially the monasteries. Hnt I bt^liiMe no specimens of this pei'iod are 
now extant. And this recalls the iiii fort iiiiate fact llial the fa<'ility 
with which pewter can be remelied and cast has b(>i>n always fatal to 
the survival of ancient examples, for wheiievei- pewler objects be 
caiiu> badiv worn or bruised it wa^ alvvav^ customarv to send lliem 



Pl'lNN'ri'M! \M) I'll I'. I!I',\I\'AL Ol'' ITS USK. 



{\\)h 



((> (he llU'Ilili^- pol (() lie rciiioldcd. All llic iiiiciciil pcwlci' lllciisils 
jMul vessels wliicli li;i\»' coiuc down (o us, ;ir(\ (lu'i'critrc, (hose only 
wliicli could ii(>( r(';idil\ rccci \(' diiUKi^'c. 

As \'i()lli'( Ic-I )uc |)(>iii(s (tut, pewter iu ine<liie\al thiys wsis tiie 
innterial iu unixcrsai use for the Inhles :nid sideltoards ol' tlie middle 
Mild ii|ipei' classes, silver plad' a ppea ri ii;/ onl\' in tln' royal palaces 
and in the dwelliuiis of tlie lii^he^t uoMes, and then pi'ohaUly iu \'ery 
limited (|iiantities at the upper tahle on the dais. The peasant, and 
the ai'tisan. il will l>e leiueiiiheretl, used dishes and platters of wood, 
or, as it was <'alled, *' Ireeii," from w hence we are told conies our word 
" d'enclier." 

rill'. ri'.wri:i;r.ifs' ckai'i' in r,N<a,.\Ni). 

'I'he inaiiii lacl lire (d" pewier, t lieicd'ore, diirinii' loiii;- centuries was 
a most im|)ortaiit industry, the <|iianlity prodiice(l wa^ enormous, 
and from the eiehlh century, when the mines of Spain, the only 
others which appear to have lu'eii of importance, had ceased to he 
a\ailal)le in coiise<|uence of the Moorish con(|uest, <lowii to the dis- 
(■()ver\' and workin<i,- of the tin mines at I'erak, our own country 
possessed a praeti<'al inon(»p<»ly oi' the metal, for the tin deii\c(l from 
Bohemian mines discovered in the thirteenth century was compara- 
tively small in <iuantity. I would siie-iivst, thei-id'ore, that the major 
portion (»f the pewter made in I^'iirope fi'om the days of Roman ei\ili- 
/.atioii down to the latter part of the last century, was made from 
Knelish tin; that is to say, down to the time when the iicneral use 
of pewter was siip|)lanted by the iut rodiiet ion of earthenware and 
e-I;iss; just as in the same way pewter itself had previously sup 
[)lante(l the ^-eiieral use of wooden wai'e. Assiimiiiii-, then, the patri 
(.tie postulate thai (Jreat Britain so lon-i" held a pi-aelical monopoly 
in the siipjtly of tin to the world's mai-kets to he correct, I purpose^ 
r(d"erriii<i- in detail to the tin and pewter iiidusti-ies mainly, in this 
count rv only, and the more particularly as they scorn (o he sullieieiitly 
(vpical of the like industries elsewhere. 

Mr. W'i'UU tells us that hy far the hirn:cr portion of the tin pro 
diieed in Kiiehmd was ahsorhtMl hetweeii the IVwterers' ("oinpany of 
London and iiieiiihers of the same craft throu<^-h()ut the country. 
!iai)sl savs that Bruges was the principal inai-1 for British tin on the 
continent, and that it was su])plied thence to the whole of the north 
and west (d' lMiro|)e. 'I'he tin mines ai'c still calle(| "stannaries" 
I fi'om stannum, the Latin word for tin), and weiv at a very early 
period «!:rante(l privileges and placed undei- regulations by the Crown. 
Accordine- (o Camden, Kine- John, who was l'>ai! of Cornwall before 
his accession to the ihroiie, <!;ave the earldom, with its i)rivile^^'s, to 
his second son, Kichai-d, who derived from the stannaries in royalty 
and tines an ;iiiniial income of 'JOO marks, (Mpial to about .£20,000 of 



696 PEWTER AND THE REVIVAL OF ITS USE. 

our inoiiey. " Oreat revenues," Hnys the forego! ui;' autlioriiy. '' were 
drawn from the same source by the Dukes of Cornwall (beginninii' 
with the Bhick Prince) ; the royalty in the Middle Ages being as 
nnich as 40s. (e({ual to over £80 of our money), for every thousand 
pounds weight of dressed tin brought into the market," All tin had 
to be brought to certain specified towns to pass the Stannary courts, 
and there be stamped with the mark of the Duchy and the dues paid 
After which, according to Mr. Welch, the guilds of the mines could 
sell to whom they pleased, except that the King or the duke had the 
j-ight of preem}>tion at the market price. Later the Pewterers' Com- 
pany of London obtained the riglit to purchase one-fourth of all the 
tin brought to I^ondon for sale. The tin miners and, in fact, all con- 
nected with the industry at the mines were subject only to their own 
stannary courts of law (except in capital cases), and had even their 
oAvn prison at their headquarters at Lostwithiel. Generally speak- 
ing, the royalties and dues were farmed. It must be understood, too, 
that Avhereas in other parts of the United Kingdom only the gold and 
silver were reserved to the Crown, the tin of Cornwall and Devon 
has always been the property of the King whoever may have been 
the owner of the soil. It is a peculiar institution, therefore, of Corn- 
wall and Devon that, on lands not under cultivation, anyone on com- 
plying with the necessary formalities can mine for tin on condition 
of paying the royal dues and one-fifteenth to the landowner. The 
last assembly of the stannaries was held in 1752. 

In common with all the other crafts carried on in the towns, that of 
the pewterer was doubtless bound by some sort of fraternity or asso- 
ciation in the early middle ages, but the first formal institution of a 
guild was in the reign of Edward III, A. D. 1348. The ordinances 
for the government of this body were draAvn up by its members and 
submitted to the lord mayor and aldermen, and by them approved. 
The records of the Craft of Pewterers thus commenced are more or 
less continuous from the establishment of the still existing Pewterers' 
Company in the reign of Edward IV, A. D. 1473, and are the material 
from which Mr. Welch has compiled his interesting history of the 
Pewterers' Company, published two years ago. These records, too, 
are not only interesting as a history of the guild, but afford a mass 
of information as to its relations to the general body of the citizens 
and the government of London in medieval times. The earliest rules 
for controlling the craft ])rovide for the assay of all wares and for 
experts superintending the same. Anyone selling pewter before it 
passed the proper test, was condemned to forfeit the goods. Still, 
contrary to the general belief as to custom in such matters, the regula- 
tions do not ap})ear to limit the ranks of the workmen to those who 
duly passed through a formal apprenticeshiiD, but stipulated that 
either such (or otherwise competent men) should be employed. An 



Smithsonian Rep->rt, 1 904— Libeity. 



Plate I. 




Fig. 1.— Candlestick with Hollow Column Adaptable for Electric Light. 
I Modern German, i 




Fig. 2.— Card Tray with Concentric Ornament in Low Relief, i Modern English.) 



Smithsonian Report, 19C4— Liberty. 



Plate II. 





Fig. 1.— Biscuit Box. 
(Modern German.) 



Fig. 2.— Frame for Photograph. 
' Modern German, i 




Fig. 3.-CAKE or Fruit Basket. (Modern German.) 






Fig. 4.— Frame with Ear Handles for Glass 
Flower Bowl. Modern English.) 



Fig 5. 



-Tray and Liu f-uR Glass 
Butter Bowl. 



PEWTER AND THE REVIVAL OK ITS USE. ()97 

incidental conmiontarv on the primitive lii^litin«<: aiTan^^enients of 
(he time is contained in the ride that no work is to be done at ni<dit, 
and it IS easy to understand tliat woik i)i()diiced under the llai-e of a 
rou^-li flambeau, or, on the other hand, by the meaot-r lioht ol" a tallow 
candle, was not likely to enhance the reputation of the ciaft. As 
just mentioned, the penalties for bad Avorkmanshij), or I'oi' iiilciior 
quality of metal, were forfeiture of the articles and lines; suspension 
from membership was also inflicted in some cases, and for very bad 
or often-repeated offenses, expulsion. This last pi-actically amounlcd 
almost to outlawry, for unless the olfending- member weiv readmitted 
it deprived him of his livelihood; since, if not a member, he could 
neither buy nor sell nor be employed. No master was to emplov a 
workman without a character from the last employer, nor was he. 
under any circumstances, to entice away another's workuuin. 

The (|ualities of jjewter were also prescribed to prevent adultera- 
tion and inferior quality of metal being used. These regulations 
were always strictly enforced, and the control of the guild over the 
trade was fostered by the Crown and Parliament for many ages, its 
efi'ect being to set up a very high standard of quality, both of mate- 
rial and workmanship, and thus maintain the excellent reputation 
of English pewter, besides insisting on a code of commercial morality 
which could not but have a great effect on the members as citizens. 

The craft at this time consisted of three grades: The livery, or 
brethren, from whom were elected the wardens and other officers of 
the craft; the freemen, or yeomanry, members who had obtained 
license to set up in business for themselves, and the covenant men 
(journeymen) and apprentices. One of the rules most strictly en- 
forced was that no members Avere allowed to go to law Avith one 
another, all disputes having to be submitted for decision to the 
warden and craft, thus keeping in view the idea of brotherhood in 
the society. 

These ordinances, it nuist be remembered, were pronuilgated bv 
the body called the Craft of Pewterers; and althougli there was 
doubtless a fraternity of workmen prior to this, and probably dating 
from quite early times, the regulations in question, having now been 
ratified by the lawful government of the city, first i)ut the control 
of the trade on a legitimate basis. It must also be remarked that 
such control, though absolute, was not despotic, an appeal always 
lying to the lord mayor and aldermen in cases of injustice and 
oppression. In fact, not only under the Craft of Pewterers, but 
afterwards under the duly chartered Pewterers' Company, the city 
fathers often interfered in case of an arbitrary exercise of power, 
without any appeal to them having been lodged. With all the 
faults of the i)aternal government of trade during the middle ages 
the spirit of the guilds was distinctly democratic, and such regula- 



098 PEWTER AND THE REVIVAL OF ITS USE. 

tions were recooiiized as existino: for the benefit of all. The records 
show, indeed, in a very striking manner the absence of privilege and 
mere influence, the very master or wardens of the company, in their 
capacit}' of craftsmen and dealers, sometimes falling under its 
discipline. 

During the hundred and thirty years which elapsed between the 
formation of the old body of the Craft of Pewterers and the incor- 
poration of the Pewterers' Company the guild had no hall, but 
rented j^remises for their feasts and business meetings from the 
House of the Austin Friars. Special religious services were ob- 
served by the brethren at Christmas, Easter, and the Feast of the 
Assumption, generally at the Church of the Grey Friars. The ex- 
pansion of trade and the consequent increase of wealth and influence 
of the city of London generally during the fifteenth century doubt- 
less excited the aml)ition of the craft for incorporation as a regular 
city company, and after delays, probably due to the disturbed state 
of the government through the Wars of the Eoses, a charter was 
granted by King Edward IV in 1473 creating the existing Pewterers' 
Company. This charter is still preserved in the archives of the 
guild, and is a beautifully written and illuminated document in 
Latin. The powers alread}^ de facto possessed by the craft were 
by this instrument confirmed and extended, one of the most valuable 
new concessions being that of the right of search for inferior goods 
and metal beloAv the jiroper standard of purity. This right not 
only was to extend over London and its suburbs, but over the Avhole 
coimtry, and all j)rovincial mayors and sheriffs were enjoined to 
assist the company's officers in the work. All such inferior goods or 
metal was to be seized and sold, the proceeds to be divided between 
the company and the Crown. These searches, besides fulfilling the 
primary object of protecting the trade against fraud and bad work, 
had the result of greatly strengthening the company's importance, 
and consequently attracting numbers of provincial pewterers into 
its ranks. The officers of the company who undertook the country 
searches were accustomed to entertain the provincial master pew- 
terers while on circuit at the expense of the guild, and the country 
members when in town also enjoyed the hospitality of the city. 
Hawking goods by peddlers at fairs or markets was strictly forbid- 
den, under pain of fines and confiscation of the articles, the shop- 
keepers, who of course were at the charge of rent, taxes, and other 
dues, claiming and enforcing the privilege of keeping the trade in 
their own hands. 

Soon after the establishment of the company and its consequent 
expansion the need began to be felt for a hall of its own, and accord- 
ingly a site was found for the same in Lime street, v.'here the present 
hall now stands. From verv earlv times it had been the custom for 



PEWTER AND TTTE TtEVIVAT. OE TTS USE. ()*.)'.) 

tho wnrdons to purchase hxvgo ([uaiilitios of (in from tho stannaries in 
l>iilk and to retail the same at a small ])r()fit to the members, a i)lan 
doubtless advantageous to all parties, as the profit was applietl to the 
])a_vnient of the general expenses of the guild. During the building 
of the hall, however, which necessarily caused a great drain on their 
resources, this practice was discontinued, but was resumed on the com- 
pletion of tlie work. Part of the site was occupied by tenements built 
at the same time by tlie comi)any, and the rents of these and sums 
received for the hire of (he hall for wedding parties appear to have 
materially increased its income. 

Tn l.'it)! a statute of the rarliament of King Henry VII abrogated 
the right of any guild or company to make ordinances without the 
same having received the assent of the chancellor, treasurer, or othei- 
officers of the realm, and at the same time rendered illegal the ])artic- 
ular by-law which forbade members of such a fraternity from suing 
one another in the King's courts. In the same Parliament an act was 
passed in the interest of the jDewterers to suppress hawking by ped- 
dlers, the adulteration of metal, and the use of false scales and 
Aveights. This statute was confirmed in the fourth year of the reign 
of Henry VIII. 

In accordance Avith the first-named act of 1504, the ordinances of 
the company Avere, after eighteen j^ears' delay, submitted to the King 
for confirmation in 1522, and duly assented to after the usual presents 
and gratifications to courtiers and ministers. About this time the 
importation of foreign pewter was seriously competing with the 
English trade, and after a considerable amount of lobbying and 
briber}^ in Parliament an act was passed in 1533 totally prohibiting 
the importation of foreign pewter, any so smuggled to be forfeited, 
together with a fine to the amount of the value. The right of search 
was again confirmed, and no foreigner was to be employed in the 
trade under any circumstances and under heavy penalties, and no per- 
son of foreign birth to be apprenticed. It was also forbidden for an 
Englishman to exercise the craft anywhere beyond sea, and thereby 
teach it to foreigners. HaAvking Avas again forbidden, even when 
exercised by duly qualified pewterers, none to be sold except in a shop 
attached to a dAvelling house, or in open fairs and markets. It is 
curious to note here that the PeAvterers' Company republished these 
acts in a book form so late as 1741. 

As an instance of the tight hold kept by the company on its mem- 
bers, it may be mentioned that at a court held in March, 1559, it Avas 
decreed that Robert AVest should bring his Avife upon Friday next 
to " reconcile herself to Mr. Cacher and others of the company for her 
naughty misdemeanor of her tongue toAvard them." 

Xo man Avas alloAved to set up in business Avithout first submitting 
to the master and Avardens a specimen of his Avork. In case of dis- 



Too PEWTER AND THE REVIVAL OF ITS USE. 

putes between nieiiiliers of the ^iiild, it was often decided that the one 
of the litii>ants hehl to be in the wronir shonld invite the other 
with his wife to snpi^er, " and then to be niei-ry together and so 
to be lovers and friends henceforth." 

A very high standard of commercial morality Avas enforced. For 
instance, no pewterer Avas allowed, nnder a penalty of a fine of 20s. 
(probably equal to £10 of our money) to say to a prospective cus- 
tomer that his goods were superior in quality to those of others. 

The following is a specimen of the amenities obtaining at the time 
between the English and those of the sister kingdom: '"Thomas 
Wolshire shall pay for his op])robrious Avords toward Kichard Scot, 
saying ' He played the Scot's part and had the Scot's heart," KUl." 
Members had to attend the funerals of their confreres on pain of 
fine, unless they had a reasonable excuse. 

Not only apprentices, but unmarried journeymen liA^ed in their 
master's house and accompanied him to church on Sundays. They 
were not to absent themseh^es until after the afternoon service, when 
they were permitted to amuse themselves with shooting at the butts 
and dancing. On the other hand, the company Avas resolute to 
defend the rights of members, and once, for example, forbade any 
of the craft from serving any persons belonging to the Saddlers' 
Company until a claim against it by a pewterer had been satisfied. 
Adulteration of metal, as before mentioned, Avas severely punished, 
sometimes by expulsion, the culprit being described as acting con- 
trary to his oath and " like no treAve joewterer and to the great 
slaundre of all the peAvterers in London." Sometimes on giving 
an undertaking and a surety not to repeat the offense he was received 
back, but was made to pa}'^ a substantial fine. In cases Avhen the 
offense Avas not A'ery flagrant the punishment Avas to make the culprit 
change his mark, this being equivalent to a fine, in consequence of 
the loss of time and the expense of re-marking his stock and oblit- 
erating his old mark. 

The statute of apprentices having been j^assed in 15G3, the com- 
pany, in 15G-f, issued an ordinance that each member of the livery 
should be alloAved to take one apprentice, the master and Avardens 
might have three, but only on condition that they employed two 
journeymen. Misbehaving apprentices Avere sometimes sentenced 
to be Avhipped in the hall. No member Avas alloAved to sell old j)eAv- 
ter bought secondhand, and no pewterer Avas to act as scullion even 
for the lord maA'or himself, nor to repair or clean peAvter except at 
his own Avorkshop — a suggestive rule for maintaining the dignity 
of the craft. Gilding pcAvter Avas strictly forbidden, except AAhen 
giA^en as a present to friends. To insure proper registration, the 
members of the livery Avere accustomed to set up their marks in the 
hall. 



PEWTER AND THE REVIVAL OF TTS USE. 701 

Tt was a cusloni cooxistciit with llic conipany for members to be 
enrolled Avho wimv not pcwterers. An instance that may be given 
is that of one Isaac Tucker, who, in the year 1. ■),")(;, was admitted 
on the reconnnendation of '' Sir Water Rawghley " (^ie) on pay- 
ment of £10, half of the usual fee ptwable by such members. It is 
expressly stated that this was done out of respect to " Sir AVater," 
and for no other reason. 

No journeyman was allowed to trade on his own account, but must 
obtain the permit of the company and register his mark or "' touch," 
as it was technically called, and if a tradesman left London and 
afterwards returned he had to pay his dues for permission to start 
a second time. No tin was to be exported, except after having 
passed through the pewterer's hands — that is, in bars or made into 
pewter ingots. 

In the last year of Elizabeth's reign it was forbidden to allow 
country pewterers and others to enter shops where London men were 
at work, " whereby they come to great light of further knowledge ; '' 
in other words, were finding out trade secrets. The monopolies 
granted by James 1 to the farmers of tin had a very prejudicial ef- 
fect on the industry, and the company accordingly petitioned several 
times against the practice, which, after a time, was modified by the 
King. The sixteenth and early part of the seventeenth century 
must have been the palmy days of the pewter trade. The pros- 
perity of the middle class brought substantial comfort into the homes 
of the artisan and the laborer, and every fairly well-to-do citizen, 
among other belongings, seems to have made a point of jjossessing 
his " garnish " of pewter, while even the thrifty Avorkman and peas- 
ant had a modest quantity. A " garnish," I may here recall, con- 
sisted of 12 plates, 12 smaller platters, and 12 dishes. At this 
period, also, large quantities of pewter Avere kept in stock by mem- 
bers of the trade for hire to the nobility and gentry as well as to 
public bodies for banquets, and other festivities, the pewterers often 
helping one another with loans when a great demand was made on 
their resources. 

DECLINE OF THE INDUSTRY. 

The causes of the decline of the pewter manufacture in England, 
as on the Continent, were mainly, as before stated, the competition of 
cheap earthenware for table and other domestic use, followed by 
deterioration of quality and design, and conse(iuent loss of influence 
on the part of the P^nglish Pewterers' Company. The guild had for 
centuries maintained, by rigid enactments, the high quality of English 
pewter, both for home consumption and for export, and these enact- 
ments were enormously aided in their enforcements by the company's 
right of search. During the troubles of the great civil war, however, 



702 PEWTER AND THE EEVIVAL OF ITS USE. 

this right fell almost into desuetude, and after the restoration the 
company found that it is much easier to maintain a privilege than to 
reimpose one when once practically abrogated. The right of search 
was felt to be unsuited to the spirit of even that age, and the company 
never succeeded in getting it legally recognized again. Possibly, as 
has been suggested, the authorities were indisposed to bring the ques- 
tion before the courts of law; as, in the case of an adverse decision, 
the right would definitely cease to exist, Avhereas by leaving the mat- 
ter unsettled it might be once more established, should a favorable 
opportunity arise. It is i:)robable also that the j^ractico which we 
have seen had existed from early times, of admitting into the fellow- 
ship of the guild members who were not connected with the craft, 
became more and more common, until many of the influential so- 
called " pewterers '' had ceased to possess any real business interest 
in the trade, with the inevitable result that the main object of the 
existence of the company was neglected. 

Efforts, however, were made from time to time to revive the declin- 
ing industry, but slowly and surely the products of the potteries ousted 
the plates, dishes, and vessels of pewter, whilst the art of plating 
inferior metals with silver displaced the old pewter dish covers, 
cruets, salt cellars, drinking cups, and the like, until at last even in 
the village inns and hostelries the electroplated tankards displaced 
the pewter pot. This last fact is significant, since good judges of malt 
liquor never lost the tradition that ale or stout was of better flavor 
when drunk from what was called " its native pewter." Thus the 
once flourishing craft of the pewterer degenerated to the production 
of some few mere utilities, such as lavatory fittings, public house bar 
appliances, and plumbers'' requisites. Although exclusive reference 
has been made to English pewter, we must not forget that the pew- 
terers' craft embraced Scotland, notabl}^ Edinburgh, as demonstrated 
by the " Tappit Hen "' and " Christening Tankard," which examples 
by the courtesy of Mr. AValter Churcher are, with others from his 
collection, here for our inspection this evening. 

MARKS. 

Great numbers of old touches or makers' marks have come down 
to us, but it is, unfortunately, the fact that no register of them exists, 
and unless the name is mentioned they are, therefore, dilRcult to 
identify. Much interesting information from the collector's point of 
view has been written on the subject of marks, but it will suffice for 
the purpose of this paper to say that no piece of pewter was allowed 
to be sold without a mark, and that this rule extended to the pewter 
mountings on stone jugs and tankards; and it is thought probable 
that the crowned '' Rose " mark was in some measure the official 
" touch " of the Pewterers' Company, being one of their armorials, 



Smithsonian Report, I 904.— Liber;y. 



Plate III. 




Fig. 1. -Liqueur Set and Tray, with Floral Ornament in Low Relief (Modern 

German.) 





Fig. 2.— Two-handled Vase. 
iMoDERN German ' 



Fig. 3.— Hot-water Jug, with 
Ornament in Low Relief. 
(Modern English. > 



Smithsonian Repoit, 1904. — Liberty. 



Plate IV. 




Fig. 1.— Coffee Pot, Spout Made in One Piece with the Body. (Modern German. 





Fig. 2.— Glass Claret Jug, with Metal 
Mountings. (Modern English i 



Fig. 3.— Beer Tankard, with Handle. 
(Modern English.) 



PEWTER AND THE REVIVAL OF ITS USE. 703 

Avhile the double " f ' was a penal mark sometimes affixed to the 
work of a menibor who had boon round <>nilty of niali)rac(ices, and 
signifying, as it did, false, the result conunonly was his being obliged 
to join the ranks of the journeymen of the craft. 

ALLOYS. 

And now I must refer to the alloys and (he i)ro('ess of a<-liial manu- 
facture. It is still questionable, I believe, what were the precise alloys 
and the relative proportions used in the manufacture of ancient pew- 
ter ; and, indeed, down to our own day the word " pewter " has an elas- 
tic meaning. I gather, however, that some among the old examples 
show a large admixture of lead, as, for instance, a vase handle of the 
fourth century of our era, dug up in Rome, which, according to 
Bapst, Avas assayed in France early in the last century and found to 
contain about three-sevenths lead, without any trace of copper. This 
must, therefore, be considered as of very inferior quality.- By way 
of explanation it has been suggested, indeed, that tin procured with 
difficulty from a remote and barbarous region was almost as dear as 
silver, and that this may account for the low^ grade of pewter being 
in use in Rome. On the other hand, however, Mr. Gowland's analy- 
sis of varying examples of Roman pewter show that the question of 
cost was by no means invariably considered. His results give for 
what he terms '' typical " Roman pewter : 72.36 tin to 26.00 lead, 
and 70.58 tin to 27.62 lead; that is, to put it roughly, three parts tin 
and one part lead. 

According to Mr. AYelch, in the ordinances of the old English craft 
of pewterers two qualities of peAvter are described, the first of tin 
with a small admixture (supposed to be about 5 per cent) of Avhat is 
called " kettle brass," otherw^ise known as " peak " metal, the peak 
metal being a compound of copper Avith some other metal not defi- 
nitely ascertained, and prol>ably ahvays kept a mystery of the guild. 
The second quality Avas originally called " vessel of tin," being a com- 
pound of tin and lead in the proportion of 1 hundredAveight of tin 
to not exceeding 26 pounds of lead. This alloy was afterwards 
known as " lay," or lead, metal. 

Some old pieces of the Elizabethan and Stuart periods Avere 
assayed tAvo years ago by my friend, Mr. Haseler, when conducting 
some experiments on behalf of Liberty & Co., and besides tin he 
found them to consist of small quantities of copper, Avith traces of 
antimony, the latter probably being added for the hardening and 
cleansing of the other metals. These pieces Avere of what is known 
as the old first quality of pcAvter. We have seen that the craft 
always guarded most jealously the good reputation which the Eng- 
lish pewter held, and that it included the keeping up of the requisite 
.standard of purity in the metal. It was for this purpose, indeed, 



704 PEWTER AND THE REVIVAL OF ITS USE. 

that the PeAvterers' Company possessed and exercised their peculiar 
poAvers. Thus, as has been noted, all tin brought to London was 
liable to be assayed by the companv's inspector before being sold, 
and it could be seized and forfeited if of inferior quality, no matter 
to whom it might belong. It was also ordered (in 1438) that all 
articles (in accord with a published list) should be of a certain 
standard AA'eight, thus insuring to purchasers a definite quantity of 
the metal. This was doubtless an excellent rule to prevent fraud 
when recasting was so constantly resorted to in order to make good 
the constant wear and tear to which pewter articles were liable at 
a time Avhen they AA^ere used for practicall}' all domestic purposes. 
Thus, it AA^as a definite rule that " chargeours " of the largest size 
were to AA-eigh three-fourths hundredAveight per dozen, i. e., 7 pounds 
each, and small " belles " 13 pounds per dozen. 

In the present day and of late years many experiments haA^e been 
made and various modifications haA'e been tried in the composition of 
pcAvter, nearly every manufacturer having his oAvn particular for- 
nuda. For the p)roduction of modern peAA'ter goods aspiring to be 
classed as artistitfin design, the inferior alloy containing lead is dis- 
carded altogether (except by the Japanese in the manufacture of 
their antimony Avare). And to avoid as far as possible the use of 
copper, which some consider to have a bad effect on the color, tin is 
noAAadays alloyed in the proportion of about 5 per cent of antiuKmy, 
or bismuth, or both. An excess of copper imparts a broAvnish tint, 
whilst the use of lead (ahvays be it remembered the alloy of the 
so-called second quality peAvter) imparts the Avell-known gray color 
lone Avhich, be it acknoAvIedged, has for some of us a decided charm. 
Still, as AA'e knoAv, if lead is used beyond a certain proportion it ren- 
ders the peAvter dangerous for the use of liquors containing acids, 
such as beer, Avine, vinegar, etc., b}^ reason of the chemical action they 
set up, the excess lead producing poisonous oxides. 

A series of ex])eriments Avere made some years ago under the 
auspices of the French (iovernment, Avhich resulted in a laAA' being 
passed prescribing the proportion of lead which may safely be used, 
and this was fixed for France at IG^ per cent. The old peAA^terers 
appear to have had one advantage over the modern in the fact that 
their lead nearly always contained a small jjercentage of silver, 
AA'hich (unfortunately for the pcAvter trade) science has enabled the 
modern smelters to extract. That is to say, the fascinating luster 
AA'hich many old pieces of peAvter possess is generally ascribed to the 
presence of this small proportion of silver in alloy. Modern German 
peAA^ter, as compared Avith modern English, contains a much larger 
proportion of antimony, Avith some bismuth, and gives out when bent 
or bitten (which the mo(knni English does in a far less degree) the 
Avell-knoAvn distinguishing crackle or cri. Modern German pewter 



PEWTER AND THE KF.VIVAL OK ITS T^SE. 705 

is produccMl j)rincipally in Nuivmhiirij, CivtVld, and Munich. The 
(xcrnian alloys have, in my oi)ini()n, however, the disadvantage of 
being more brittle than those used in this country, and T refer par- 
ticularly to those used by the company wi(h which my own name is 
associated. The alloys used by it are, as before mentioned, the results 
of careful trials made by my friend, Mr. Tlaseler. a partner in and 
director of Liberty & Co.'s works at IVn-uiiugham. His endeavor has 
been to reproduce a metal similar, as far as possible, to the best of the 
old Kngiish [)e\vter, and in ])oint of solidity the new alloy is, I 
believe, unecpialed. The exact constituents and proportions used are 
regai"ded as a trade secret by my colleagues, as is the case with the 
composition of the alloy used by our German friends, although both 
could, doubtless, be readily assayed. 

MANUFACTURE. 

Pewter work is either cast, spun, or hammered, and the methods 
of manufacture differ in no essential in the present day from those 
of the olden times. Most of the old pewter was cast in molds of 
brass, which were highly finished inside and fitted with great nicety. 
But specially prepared iron is preferred nowadays, as higher skill 
in the working of the more enduring metal has been attained. 
Pewter can be cast of any degree of thinness, and is turned out of the 
mold in a state requiring a minimum of work in the finishing pro- 
cess, apart from the inevitable polishing and soldering. In the 
active days of the Pewterers' Company the guild Avas accustomed to 
purchase and to have made to order a large number of molds, which 
were let out on hire to its members. The latter, of course, also pos- 
sessed stocks of molds of their own, often held in shares by different 
tradesmen. The reason for this arrangement was the great expense 
of producing properly made molds, and by this means the expense 
Avas shared by members to mutual advantage. The elaborate pieces, 
incrusted with ornament in relief, produced on the Continent during 
the Renaissance, especially in the sixteenth century, were cast in a 
different way, i. e., in sand, and in sections afterwards soldered to- 
gether. These pieces, being produced in small quantities, the cost 
of a metal mold would have been prohibitive, siuce even for plainer 
^vovk it was necessary to spread the cost of a ni(»l(l over a great num- 
ber of articles. The articles being cast in sand, however, left a 
finely granulated surface, re([uiring a considerable amount of extra 
labor to finish them by polishing and chasing. 

One of the most satisfactory pieces of old English pewter, and per- 
haps the example most frequently referred to, is a large dish in the 
South Kensington Museum, of which, by the courtesy of Sir Caspar 
Purdon Clarke, I have been enabled to bring a sketch hei-e to-night. 
SM 1904 45 



706 PEWTER AND THE REVIVAL OF ITS USE. 

It will be seen that it is eiigruved with tho royal arms and a floral 
border of simple design, and bears an inscription dated \CAV2. The 
engraving on it is plainly but boldly executed, and has the great 
merit of obtaining that too often ignored quality, namely, suitability. 
But, as we have seen, the quality of English pewter, as far as regards 
the metal employed, was always unrivaled, and the strength and ex- 
cellence of the workmanship was also equal to the best. In the de- 
partment of design, however, we have nothing to show in old pewter 
to compare in elaboration with some of the pieces still existing, the 
work of continental craftsmen. I greatly prefer, however, the taste 
of our own workmen, who made their platters and bowls almost al- 
ways plain (and, therefore, more easily cleaned), depending on the 
shapes alone for the good eifect of the cups, tankards, and measures. 
The shapes of our old craftsmen's hollow ware are almost always ex- 
cellent and generally far superior to the classical ewers and vessels 
produced by the Frenchmen of the Renaissance. Our rivals on the 
Continent, indeed, appear to have made the great mistake throughout 
of overelaboration (for pewter is essentially a homely metal), with 
the inevitable result of subordination of shape to ornament. Some 
of the ewers and other vessels made by Briot, who has been called 
the Cellini of the pewterers, are, however, dignified, in addition to 
being elaborate. But too many of the show pieces in the museums 
and private collections by German makers of the Eenaissance pel'iod 
are both inferior in execution and absurdly overdone in decoration. 

The solder used is still the hard solder of the middle ages, made of 
tin and lead, sometimes with a small proportion of bismuth, and 
when skillfully done the process insures not only mechanical adhe- 
sion, but forms an alloy of itself between the solder and the metals 
joined. The old pewterers strictly forbade the use of soft solder (i. e.. 
solder with too much lead) ; and although handles of jugs, etc., and 
the ears of dishes were at one time soldered an ordinance made in 
the reig-n of Elizabeth decreed that in future they were to be cast in 
one piece. Modern hollow ware is often " spun," as it is technically 
called, very much in the same way as clay on a potter's wheel. The 
metal is forced into the shape required by a blunt steel tool onto a 
wooden " chuck,'' or block, of the shape of the vessel to be made, and 
much of the ornament is worlced by hand with the hammer and 
chaser. Some pieces are entirely hammered up from the sheets of 
pewter, and therefore bear the impress of individuality to a more 
marked degree. 

THE REVIVAL. 

I now come to the concluding and the more practical side of my 
subject — the revival of the pewterer's craft as an art industry. And 
here I would again allude to the notable paper on pewter read by 



PEWTER AND THE REVIVAL OF ITS USE. 707 

Mr. Gardner ton years ago, and (he inlerestino- fact tliat no sooner 
had the echoes of his words of hinientation died away than the chmd 
Avhicii threatened extinction to the inchistry sk)\vly lifted, and from 
that dixy the erstwhile moribund draft has been struggling l)aek to 
life. Among the controlling inflnenees tending toward this result a 
certain lirm, whose name I need not mention, had, shortly after that 
time, ailopted for designs in siher plate and jewelry the motif 
and lines of ancient Celtic ornament. The results proving fairly 
satisfactory, the question arose, AMiy not ap})ly the like forms and 
designs to the manufacture of pewter? Thus, rightly or wrongly, 
the pioneers of the revival of Celtic ornament decided to work in 
pewter on somewhat parallel lines Avitli silver, and came to the con- 
clusion that nothing is produced by the silversmith which may not, 
as occasion arises, be made in pewter, but with the distinct proviso 
that any attempt to imitate the precious metal should be avoided. 
For pewter, however, only modifications of Celtic forms were used, 
and these were soon supplemented by floral and plant motives to 
which the distinguishing name of " Tudric " was given. This modest 
effort was, at all events, the first step toward the reawakening of the 
pewter industry, and up to the present it remains the only effort 
that has been made in England. It attained some commercial suc- 
cess, and, directly and indirectly, it has been the means of the revival, 
so far as a revival has at present progressed. But the ideal of 
modern English pewter, as conceived by its sponsors, aims at more 
than a commercial success — it aims at a high standard in design, a 
high standard in workmanship, and a high standard in the quality 
of the metal, and it strives to avoid overmodeling and overchasing. 
It Avould devote attention to shapes being properly adapted to the 
several purposes for which the objects are made, it would see that the 
constructive lines be graceful, well contrasted, and strong, and that 
ornament, when used at all, be used with restraint, and gi-ow out of 
the o-eneral design. These excellent intentions, unfortunately, are 
not always carried out, for faulty and eccentric notes strike out from 
time to time. These, however, it is confidently believed, are mere 
accidents by the way, and will doubtless become less and less fre- 
quent. The Germans are, practically, the only Continental repre 
sentatives of the modern pewter industry, and they, having observed 
the new^ note struck in England, appear to have seized upon the fact 
that a change in the fashion of their own wares was desirable. So, 
forthwith, they proceeded to produce what they conceived to be an 
improvement upon the English work, and translated it into the 
fantastic motif which it pleases our Continental friends to worship 
as Fart nouveau. Still, alongside the foolish and undesirable, it 
must in justice be admitted that the Germans have recently produced 
many original and pleasing designs in pewter. I allude, particularly 



708 PEWTER AND THE REVIVAL OP ITS USE. 

to the work of Messrs. J. P. Kayser l^ Sons, Messrs. Walters Scherf 
& Co.. and ]\[essrs. Lichtin*>er & C(). The present aim of the German 
pewterers seems to make for rather ditTerent results in certain details 
than with our designers, the ornament being made sharper and 
higher in relief, and the excess of antimony, or some similar alloy, 
used enables them to execute this kind of casting with great facility. 
As compared with goods made in this country the surface manipula- 
tion and finish of German goods is often more careful and satis- 
factory. On the other hand, our alloys are nuich less brittle, our 
work flatter and broader in treatment, and thus, it will, I think, be 
found that our designs and methods are more suitable to the capa- 
l)ibties of the metal, and are therefore better calcidatecl to per- 
manently advance the pewter industry. 

As for the lines on which to advance, it should be remembered 
that for historic mansions and houses where the apartments are 
furnished after the style of the Renaissance, and wherever magnifi- 
cence is fitting and desired, a rich and sumptuous array of costly 
silver plate is doubtless in harmony with its surroundings; but for 
the majority of households I venture to think that pewter is equally 
desirable for the many decorative adjuncts of refined and restful 
furnishing, and the more particularly as it can be obtained at modest 
cost. On this latter point we are continually being told that objects 
of art should not be regarded as luxuries, but should be easily attain- 
able by rich and poor alike. Everything, therefore, which tends 
toAvard the production of useful and beautiful objects at prices 
within the reach of all classes should be welcomed. And herein, 
perchance, in these days of culture, are to be found the future possi- 
bilities of pewter, for its soft neutral tone and subdued luster har- 
monizes with any scheme of decorative coloring. Those, too, who 
object to the use of electroplate as an imitation of silver may be 
content to accept equally good forms in solid pewter in its place, 
Avhile those who are already the fortunate possessors of treasures 
in pewter may contemj)late with equanimity the advent of the 
burglar. 

The manufacturer, how^ever, realizes that as by a process of 
natural evolution pewter has ousted wood from the kitchen, so china 
in its turn has inevitably supplanted pewter. The fact must be 
squarely faced by liim, therefore, that it is useless to reproduce the 
large majority of those many fascinating forms in old pewter, where 
the purposes which brought them into being are now attained by 
the substitution of other and more appropriate wares. For instance, 
however beautiful their form and patina, it would be absolutely 
useless to tempt a modern housewife to })urchase pewter plates and 
vessels for tea and table use, now that spotless and dainty Avhite 



Smithsonian Report, 1904.— Liberty. 



Plate V. 




Fig. 1.— Tripod Bowl, to Hold Glass Dish for Flowers. (Modern English.) 




Fig. 2.— Tray with Grip Hands. Hollow Rim Gives Additional Strength. 
iModern English. 1 



Smithsonian Report, 1 904.— Liberty. 



Plate VI. 




Fig. 1.— Entree Dish and Cover, with Ornament in Low Relief. 
(Modern English.) 



/ 




Fig. 2.— Cigar Box, with Hammered Ornament Set with Turquoise. 
iMoDERN English.) 




Fig. 3.-BISCUIT Box, with Handles on Lid Arranged in Novel Form. 
« Modern English.) 



PKW'I'Ki; AND THK I^KVIVAI. OK ITS ITSE. TOU 

porcelain cups and dishes are ohlaiiiahle a( e(|nal oi- less cost. A 
recent author tells iis. indeed, that *' it is a o-ood thinu' to i-iih pewter 
over with a \-,\iX satui'uted with \aseline," hut siii-el\- the pi-occss 
appeals to the palate as the reverse' of appetizino-, and is ealeulatcMl 
further to enii)hasi/,e the housewife's objection to pewter foi- culin- 
ary and table use. Then, too, besides the w^ares made for the service 
of food and other purposes requiring easy and perfect cleansing 
there is a (juite considerable range of other things once made in 
pewter, which an altered state of conditions has rendered useless. 
These also are undesirable for the modern pewterer to reproduce. 
The author just quoted writes, however, in reference to some of 
them: "Among other instances of articles in pewter which have 
now unfortunately ceased to bo made are snuffboxes, candle boxes, 
table fountains, and lavabos, or hanging w^ashstands/' Now, while 
sympathizing with collectors in regretting the disappearance of the 
good w^ork of bygone days, it would be a more helpfid attitude for 
the manufacturer to try to substitute useful objects for the useless 
ones. Instead of table fountains and candle boxes one might sug- 
gest the production of electroliers, jardinieres, and presentation 
caskets, challenge cups, card trays, and a host of et ca^teras of the 
flower vase order. We have, indeed, an example of how a similar 
evolution w^as brought about by the Japanese metal workers, who, 
when they found that sw^ord hilts and their inlaying were no longer 
required, transferred their attention to the invention of the cheap 
and clever antimony ware with wdiich they have since flooded the 
European markets. And this antimony w\are, be it remembered, is a 
branch of the pewterer's trade. 

And now w^e come to the tw^o questions wdiich I have been working 
up to, i. e., (i) are the pewter wares now being made equal in (puilily 
and design to the average work of the best periods of bygone days? 
and (ii) what are the future prospects of pewter as an art industry^ 

The latest cHtic on this subject, the writer just referred to, has 
not one good w'ord for modern pewter. He says: 

In strivin.i; to nrrivo at '■ ai-t " pewter the mannfaoturera have producfvl the 
wrong kind of alloy. It is far too crude and white, and has a nieretricivius 
look, besides the fatal fault of almost looking like silver or electroplate 
Aniithcr fault is that it is far too hrittlc and lianl. There is no nice feeling 
in it ; it is. unlike old i»ewter, hard and repulsive to tlie touch. Again. * * * 
satisfactory designs for pewter can not he extemporized by any designer, how- 
ever cunning he may he at catching the public taste, so called, with a gaudy 
cretonne or a meaningless wall paper. 

Happily, it is needless to add, there are many who hold more hope- 
ful views on this subject, who consider a distinct advance has been 
made already, and who believe that there is good promise for the 
future. 



710 PEWTER AND THE REVIVAL OF ITS USE. 

DISCUSSION. 

The chairman, in moving the vote of thanks to the author, said : 

The chariu of art was never so close, intimate, and grateful as when it was 
conferred on the familiar articles of utility about our hearths and homes. Its 
charm infinitely transcends in value the prices of the materials on which it 
is lavished, and can be equally imparted to the costliest substances — black 
ebony and white Ivory, silver and gold, and precious stones — and to compara- 
tively worthless substances— clay, iron, copi)er, tin, bi-ass, and pewter, and ordi- 
nary woods — provided the artistic manipulation of them is sympathetically 
adapted to the distinguishhig natural qualities — and the defects of the same — 
of these materials and to the uses the " objets d'art " fashioned of them are 
intended to fulfill. .Just ten years ago Mr. J. Starkie Gardner gave us his 
scholarly paper (Journal, June 1, 1904) on "Pewter," and in it, as Mr. Lasenby 
Liberty has told us, expressed a regret that pewter had not shared up to that 
date in the great artistic renaissance of the reign of Queen Victoria. This 
observation was at once taken up by Kayser, and by Lichtinger in Germany, 
and in this country also by Mr. Lasenby Liberty, who for the past ten years 
has devoted himself, with the enthusiasm and resolution with which he pur- 
sues all his artistic enterprises, to the resuscitation of the ancient and once 
flourishing and famous British art of pewtery. Mr. Lasenby Liberty to-night 
has fully and clearly, and in the spirit of the most impartial criticism, told us 
of all that has been attempted and done in this respect by his firm, and from the 
specimens of tlieir work placed l)efoi'e us and the illustrations of them in his 
lantern slides we can judge of the difficulties of the undertaking to which Mr. 
Lasenby Liberty has set himself as a labor of love and of the measure of suc- 
cess with which these difficulties have been overcome. What is required of all 
such articles is that while artistic they should never lose their utilitarian and 
homely chiiracter — that is, the character impressed upon them through untold 
generations of rough and ready domestic service. If this character is overlooked 
or ignored, or in any way blurred or masked, either in the form or the embellish- 
ments of these articles, if, indeed, it is not directly indicated and emphasized by 
their artistic treatment, the art elaborated on them has been wasted and is 
worthless, however unencumbered by purposeless conventionalities and unsig- 
nificant symbols or however original in conception and sincere in execution. The 
" summam alicui rci dare " to achieve here is directness, simplicty, and balance 
of foru), the subordination of any ornamentation to the form and to the interpre- 
tation of its function, and the perfect adjustment of both form and ornamen- 
tation to tlie materials of which these articles are severally framed and to the 
human purposes they have to subserve. The decoration must not only be 
re.sponsive to form and use, but as reticent as it is significant, and must avoid 
all excess. There must be no straining after originality, which, unless it comes 
of the rarest and richest genius, tends to languish under weak hands into nerve- 
less and contemptible affectations and conceits and in strong ones to run riot 
in violent and offensive eccentricities. In France the contortionists of I'art 
nouveau have reached the basest .artistic degradation In the studied pruriency 
of the nude decorative hronzettes with which the shop windows of all Europe 
have l)een crowded during the i)ast three or four years. Compare them for a 
moment with the exquisite modeling and tlie i)urity of conception which is their 
animating soul, of the clay figurines of the (•f)roplasts of ancient Tanagra and 
Thisbe, Cyme, and M.vrina and you at once n^alize the gulf fixed between the 
inspirations of artistic genius .'ind the diabolical subtleties of merely manipula- 
tive dexterity, Thero is, moreover, nothing new in this I'art nouveau. It is, in 



PEWTER AND THE REVIVAL OF ITS USE. 7ll 

Its "motifs," tlio priiiiilivo nrt of :ill savii^o r;u-os, to wliicli (lie Iiigliost mechani 
cal iHTfocliou is foiiiid j,mvoii in tlK> art of anciont Egypt and in much of the ritual 
art of modorn Japan, wiiich Celtic art all but toucliod with spiritual perfection, 
and which in our time has been brought into vogue by the marvelous black and 
white drawings of Aubrey Reardsley, a man of undoubted genius, but who, it 
should always be remembered, received his artistic training as an arcbitectural 
draftsman, and again by the sechu-tive jewelry of Lalique and cameo cut glass 
of (Jalle. But at its best it is not of true artistic inspiration, but an intel- 
lectually conceived and calculated mannerism, foredoomed in the hands of 
mediocrities to the fate of all mechanical imitations. Truly artistic deconition 
in its whole scheme and in every detail is ever as spontaneous and free as tlie 
beauty and grace and sweetness of the " all a-blowin', all a-growiu' " flowers of 
the Thames side meadows of a morning in May. 



CAMEOS." 



l^y Cyuil Davkni'okt, F. S. A. 



The word " cameo "' does not in any way help toward a proper 
understanding of the term. The ival derivation of the word is 
unknown. As we now understand them, cameos may be defined as 
small bas-reliefs cut upon some substance precious because of its 
rarity, beauty, or hardness. 

The earliest examples of the art are perhaps to be found in llie 
scarabs of ancient Egypt, combining- both the cameo and intaglio, as 
their bases are engraved with designs. Early instances also exist in 
the form of small sculptures on the back of seal stones, of Greek 
and Etruscan origin, as also rarely in Mycenean work. Glass cameos 
were probably made at Home long before the Christian era, and of 
still earlier date are found small rosettes and medallions of clay 
impressed with designs in relief and gilded. 

The ancient Egyptian scarabsci are usually made in some soft 
stone, steatite, syenite, or serpentine, all of which can be cut by flint 
or obsidian flakes, or even by hard metal chisels. But harder stones 
were sometimes successfully cut, examples being found in amethyst, 
carnelian, obsidian, and jasper. The majority appear to have been 
made in molded glass or porcelain, usually with a green or blue glaze. 

About the third century B. C. the peculiar adaptability of the 
banded onyx for cameo work was first generally realized, and it 
rapidly became the favorite material in which the most skilled 
artists worked; and cameos in time became valued articles of per- 
sonal adornment, increasing in favor in proportion as the use of 
seal rings declined. 

Onyx, which is a silicious chalcedony, is usually formed in irregu- 
lar hollows in trap rock, and is deposited gradually in successive 
layers from the outer contours toward the center, alternately crystal- 
line and amorphous. The crystalline layers are white in reflected 



o Abstract of an addross delivered before tbe Society of Arts January 15. 
1901. Reprinted, by permission, from .Tournal of tbe Society of Arts, January 
25, 1901. 

713 



714 CAMEOS. 

lioht. the amorphous are transhicent, grayish, and curiously per- 
meable b}^ liquids. In consequence of their permeability certain 
colors are sometimes naturally acquired by the amorphous layers of 
chalcedony. In cases where the water of infiltration is loaded with 
iron a j^ellowish red will probaI)ly l>e found, produciiig Avhat is 
called a sardonyx, from a Persian word " zard,'' meaning yellow. 
Other metals Avill impart other tints. 

Pliny (firbt century), in his Natural History, among other notes 
concerning jewels, says that (Book xxxvii) in his hands are 
books '' wherein it is deciphered how to sophisticate transparent 
gems," a statement which likely enough refers to artificial coloring 
of chalcedony. But at the same time it may also only mean the 
paste imitations which were plentifully made both before and dur- 
ing the time the Natural History was written. 

It is, I think, probably due to the discovery of the remarkable 
adaptability of the onyx stone for cameo work that the art has 
developed so as to become one of a considerable range and consider- 
able importance both from the antitjuarian and the artistic point 
of view. 

Without this discovery we should not have possessed the Strozzi 
Augustus of the British Museuu), or the Portland vase, or any of 
the works like them, bearing designs cut in one colored layer on a 
background of another, but we might have had the vase of St. 
Martin cut simply in an agate without any reference to the trend of 
its color layers, and the phalerae in chalcedony or amethyst, or any 
other stone of one color. But without the onyx cameos it is likely 
enough tliat all the rest would never have been considered more than 
small and delicate pieces of sculpture, not Ijelonging to a school o 
their own, so that for the existence of cameos as a distinct branch 
of art we are probably indebted particularly to that unknown 
lapidary who first hit upon the idea of cutting the banded onyx 
parallel to its color layers instead of across them. 

At Oberstein, in Oldenburg, there is a large onyx industry, origi- 
nally fixed there because the stone was found plentifully in the 
neighborhood, but this supply having now become comparativelv 
small, onyxes are sent there in quantities from India, Brazil, or 
Egypt to be sliced up ready for cutting, shaped, and artificially 
stained with colors as may be desirable. 

The staining of onyx is well understood and is now reduced almost 
to a certainty, so that it is said that any ancient and jiresumably 
natural tint can be artificially produced with great accuracy: 

Peds by means of pernitrate of iron. 

Black by oil, honey, or sugar. 

Blues by iron v\ith ferrocyanide of potassium (prussiau bkie). 

Greens bv nitrate of nickel. 



Smithsonian Report, 1 904.— Davenport. 



Plate I. 




Augustus (Sardonyx Cameo) 

Fniiii Krilisli Museum ('jitiildgiio. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Davenport. 



Plate II 








'S»5c>; 
















f, 



9 '^A'^ ' 




^"^•fea 




SCARABOIDS AND SELECT GREEK GeMS. 
Fniiii I'.rilisli M\im'Uiii Cataldguc. 



CAMEOS, 715 

Heat alone will often darken and improve the color of an onyx. 

Snlj^hnric acid will often iiuproxc (he color of an onyx when 
metallic oxules already exist within it. 

Nitric acid will often pale an onyx. 

The white or crystalline layers are seldom me(ldled with. They 
can only he sliiihtly reddened snjK'rficially by paint in<j with a soln- 
tion of iron or a little thickened hy heat oi- strong acid. 

Early carvings and engravings on hard stone were piohahl}- at 
first cnt with a sharp diamond splinter ah)ne; in time the diamond 
jDoint was only used to sketch out the design on the polished surface 
of the stone, the actual cutting being afterwards done more easily 
and expeditiously by means of a hand drill, or some more powerful 
tool analogous to the modern jeweler's lathe. The harder stones 
require the help of oil and diamond dust to cut them, the soft iron 
points which are used becoming thickly coated with microscopic 
pieces of diamond and when rapidly revolved forming a very power- 
ful cutting surface. 

Emery is mentioned by both Theophrastus and Pliny as being the 
best material for rubbing down stones for engraving, the softer of 
which were prob;d)ly sometimes engraved with flint points. Emery 
will polish a diamond; it is crystallized alumina and a variety of 
corundum. 

For polishing ordinary stones rotten stone (powdered alumina) 
or tripoli powder (powdered silica) are most genei-ally used. For 
polishing, of course, the material used must be softer than the sub- 
stance to be polished, and the points used for carrying the polishing 
powders are also soft, copper, ivory, or wood. 

My examples are arranged in three divisions: xVntique subject or 
portrait cameos on small or flat stones; antique vases and cups on 
nodules of onyx or cut as cameos on blue or white glass; and the 
later or Renaissance cameos. 

The Greeks were the most successful workers in cameo that have 
existed, the few remaining specimens of their work done du.ring the 
early Ptolemaic period (third and fourth centuries B. C.) are 
unsurpassed, and the fir.est pieces made at Rome from the first cen- 
tury B. C. to the third century A. D. were actually the work of 
Greek artists. The universal acknowdedgment of the surpassing 
excellence of the Greek workmen is marked in an interesting way by 
the fact that the extremely skillful Renaissance cameo cutters nearly 
all signed their names, if at all, in Greek characters. 

Augustus Octavianus Ca'sar, second Emperor of Rome, who reigned 
during the latter part of the first century, B. C, and the first few 
years of the Christian era. was evidently not only a splendid model 
for the cameo cutter, but also a man of nnich leai-ning and culture 



716 CAMEOS. 

and a orreat j^atron of the arts. IIo is said to have been the original 
of .Eneas as depicted by Virgil. 

During the Roman Empire until the time of Constantine great 
luxury prevailed, and no doubt the lavish expenditure which was 
indulged in by the opulent and luxurious collectors of their time 
tempted the most skilled of the Greek cameo cutters to migrate to 
Txome and follow their avocations there more profitably to themselves 
than they could anywhere else. 

Toward the end of the third century the Greek influence began to 
die out of Roman art in cut gems, and consequently there is a marked 
decline in the hitherto high standard reached in their production, and 
in the fourth century, when Constantine the Great moved his court 
to Byzantium, " Xova Roma '■ as it was sometimes called, a new style. 
Christian in feeling, began, and the classical designs hitherto preva- 
lent were changed as to their attributes or superseded by others of 
new character. Hercules becomes David, Perseus and the Gorgon 
do duty for David and Goliath, Venus and Leda both become the 
Virgin Mary, and the heads of Medusa have the snakes cut away and 
are changed into the floly face of St. Veronica. Byzantine art in 
cameos is not remarkably good; it is chiefly noticeable for the skillful 
manner in which advantage is taken of the natural nuirkings of the 
bloodstone. 

Some ancient portrait and subject cameos are of world-wide celeb- 
rity, either because of the exquisite beauty of the art displayed upon 
them, or for the size and beauty of the stones in which they are cut. 
The largest of these are both illustrative of scenes in the life of the 
Emperor Tiberius, who succeeded Augustus; one is at Paris (13 by 
11 inches) and the other at Vienna (9 by T^ inches). M. Ernest 
Bahelon thinks these may both have been cut by the celebrated en- 
graver Qf intaglios, Dioscorides. Then there is the beautiful double 
profile cameo at St. Petersburg, known as the '' Gonzaga Cameo," 
representing, perhaps, Ptolemy II, Philadelphus, King of Egypt, and 
his wife, and another of the same king with his second wife, at 
Vienna. Adolf Furtwaengler considers these may be portraits of 
Alexander the Great and his mother Olympias. They were both 
most likely made during the early Ptolemaic period. 

The large double portrait cameo, formerly in the Marlborough 
collection and now in the British Museum, is also one of the great 
cameos of the world ; it measures Sf by 6 inches, and represents an 
emperor and empress fa(;ing each other, in profile, with the attributes 
of Jupiter Amnion and Isis. 

The most beautiful single head in a cameo is probably the portrait 
of the Emperor Augustus, now in the British Museum, and formerly 
in the Strozzi collection at Florence (pi. i). It measures 5 by 3;^ 
inches, and is cut upon a most beautiful sardonyx. Another mag- 



CAMEOS. 



717 



nificent single head, :i poi'trait of the Kiiipcror (Maiidius. iii('iisiiriii<j: 
7^ by 5^ inches, hut badly hroki'ii, is in (he loyal colU'ctioii at Windsor. 

Amonir the Renaissance cameos, as far as I know, there is only one 
of great celebrity, that is the small marriage group of Eros and 
Psyche, falsely signed " TPf^nN EUOlKi;' which was formerly 
in the Marlborough collection and has now gone to America. 

Besides the usual form of poi'd-ait or subject cameos so well known 
to us, samples of which you have just seen, there is another class which 
is important and perhaps not so well known oi- appreciated as it ought 
to be. These are the vases, dishes, and cui)s which are cut as cameos 
and made out of nodules of onyx or of blown and cut glass. There 
are now but few- ancient examples of this development of the art of 
the cameo cutter left; most of them have succumbed to the destroy- 
ing influence of time. It is said that when the Roman (ieneral Pom- 
pey brought back from Egypt the treasure he had captured from 
Mithridates, King of Pontus (first century B. C), there Avere some 
'2,000 cups of carved hard stone among it. One of these is said to 
exist in the " Cup of St. Denys," now at Paris, but it appears to me 
to have the characteristics of later work. The " Tazza Farnese," now 
at Naples, and formerly in the collection of Lorenzo de Medici, is a 
flat agate dish (diameter about 8 inches), magnificently cut as a 
cameo, with figures probably of Egyptian divinities. It is considered 
to have been made during the early Ptolemaic period, probably at 
Alexandria. The " Vase" of St. Martin,^' now at St. Maurice 
d'Agaune, in the Rhone Valley, is an onyx cup, dark, still with its 
Byzantine setting; it is probably early Byzantine work, or possibly 
late Roman mounted by Byzantine artists. The small but ex(iuisite 
chalcedony vase (8^ inches high) recently bequeathed to the British 
Museum by Baron Ferdinand de Rothschild, belongs to this class. 
The lip, lid, and foot are of enamelled gold, added probably in the 
sixteenth century. 

Besides these, which are all of the first importance, are the remark- 
able works of the same kind, but executed in glass; the Portland vase, 
in the British Museum, the Vase des Vendanges at Naples, and the 
Auldjo vase in the British Museum. The Vase des Vendanges alone 
is perfect. These are all antique, and as exquisitely worked as if 
they w^ere made of the most valuable stones. The Portland vase is 
the finest of them. There are numerous fragments still existing of 
vases of this kind which have been broken. 

These glass vases are indeed glorified " pastes," of which numbers 
were made during the time of the Roman Empire and just before it. 
As a rule pastes inntated intaglios and were cast from clay molds, 
and there are examples of paste cameos probably made as early as the 
second century, B. C These are rarely satisfactory because of the 
difficulty of persuading the glass for the part in relief to keep to its 



718 CAMEOS. 

own <ri"oiiiKl. In the case of the vases, however, the procedure has 
been dilierent, the reliefs have not been cast, as Wedgewood reliefs 
are for instance, and then stuck on, neither have they been cast in one 
piece with the darker glass of the ground, but the vase has been made 
in the dark glass first, then dipped in white glass so as to be entirely 
coated with it. The vase has then been treated exactly as if it was a 
stone and the cameo cutter has cut the glass in the same manner as he 
would an onyx. None of these cut glass vases have now a high polish, 
but it is possible that they originally had, as some of the glass 
placques of similar Avorkmanship and alxnit the same date are 
polished. 

After the Byzantine period until the Renaissance, i. e., until the 
fifteenth century, there is a lack of consecutive art in the direction of 
cameo cutting. The Byzantine cameos are not remarkable for beauty 
in design or execution. They are largely cut in bloodstone, the 
peculiar coloration of which was peculiarly fitted for representations 
of the crucifixion. 

Christian designs prevailed as a rule until the end of the fifteenth 
century, when the Renaissance began, and classical designs in their 
turn replaced those taken from biblical sources. 

The earliest great patron of cut gems of the Renaissance period was 
Cardinal Bembo, afterAvards Pope Paul II, who made a fine collec- 
tion. He is said to have so loaded his fingers with rings set with 
gems that they chilled him to death. His collection was largely 
acquired by Lorenzo dei Medici, called the '' Magnificent,*" who ruled 
in Florence during the latter half of the fifteenth century. The re- 
vival of the arts which took place in the fifteenth century is generally 
considered to have been largely due to the patronage of this great 
Italian. He had many of his gems engraved with his name. The 
Medici collection is now dispersed chiefly between the Museums of 
Naples, Florence, and Paris. 

Renaissance cameos are remarkable for the technical skill displayed 
upon them and the beauty of their settings. Benvenuti Cellini is 
credited with two settings for cameos now at Paris. Although the 
general level is high, there are no really great cameos of the Renais- 
sance period. It was indeed a revival of the art only, and does not 
add anything new to the existing styles. There were innumerable 
imitations made of antiques, many of them most skillfully. Names 
of celebrated engravers were frequently added both to inferior an- 
tiques and to new gems, but cameos have fortunately not suffered 
nearly so much from fraudulent imitations as their cousins, the in- 
taglios. 

From the sixteenth century to the present time shells liave been 
largely used for small cameos. It is, technically, a different art from 



Smitlisonian Repoil, 1904, — Davenport 



Plate III 




(v. ' 




1/ \i<Al.' 








Gr^co-Roman Gems. 

Fniiii British Musnnii ( ':il;il(ii:u 



Smithsonian Report, 1904.— Davenport. 



Plate IV. 





■■f 



V0W. 



^ 











/ 







.J^ 






A 






Greek and Roman Portraits. 
Fnim British Museum Ciital<i,i,nie. 



CAMEOS. 



719 



the ciittiiit!: in hard stone, and is oxeciitod nioiv after (he fashion of a 
wood carvin<i:, as the shell is comparatively soft. 

Qneen Elizabeth caused her portrait to be cut in cameo several 
tmies; some of these have no doubt been executed by Julien de lM»nte- 
nay, called '" Coldore." 

In later times Italian artists have most notably followed the pro- 
fession of cameo cuttini;:. Flavio Sirletti, in the eijihteenth century, 
is said to have nearly reached the Greek perfection of techni(|iie. 
(iiovanni Pichler and Sirletti, too, cut some cameos with the diamond 
point alone as an experiment. .lean Laurent Xatter, of Xureml)erg, 
nourished in the same century; he was particularly successful in his 
imitations of the antiipie, and in all probability numbers of so-called 
•' Cineco-l\oman <iems " are really his work. Tie made a catalo<^ue 
of the Bessborough gems, afterwards part of the JNIarlborough collec- 
tion, and he also wrote a valuable treatise on the ancient and modern 
systems of engraving and cutting gems in hard stones. 

Alessandro Cesati, called " II Greco," was noted for his fine drafts- 
manship. Madame de Pompadour learned the art of gem cutting 
from the French artist, Jacques (juay, who made cameo portraits of 
her, Louis XVI, Marie Antoinette, and others. (luay could hardly 
write, and it is supposed that the signatures in his cameos were cut by 
someone else. 

In the nineteenth century the decline in the i)opularity of cameos 
has been marked; indeed, although there are several names of known 
artists sometimes who have them, that of Benedetto Pistrucci alone 
has reached a point of eminence. Pistrucci came here from Home 
early in the century, and eventually became chief engraver to the 
royal mint. He designed the beautiful group of St. George and the 
Dragon, which is still used on the reverse of some of our coins now in 
circulation. He wrote an interesting autobiograplw, in whicji he 
tells the story of a head of Flora, cut by himself, which was sold to 
Mr. Kichard Payne-Knight as an antique. Pistrucci showed his 
mark on the gem, but Mr. Payne-Knight disbelieved the story. 



THE ECONOMIC CONQUEST OF AFRICA BY THE 
RAILROADS." 



By A. FocK. 



The division of Africa among the European powers throufrh the 
definition of spheres of influence is to-day an accomplished fact. 
Nevertheless, the lines so arbitrarily traced on the map will never 
constitute a barrier against any economic advances. There will be 
always an industrial and connnercial warfare, which will allot to 
each Eurojjean nation its field of action and its lines of advance into 
the interior of the Dark Continent. 

For. until economic supremacy is assured in a colony, ])olitical 
domination is little more than a name.'' The attainment of the 
former should be the sole aim of the latter; Avithout it a government 
will, so to speak, snatch the chestnuts out of the fire for the benefit of 
its competitors. 

The first step after the military occupation is the organization of 
the civil and administrative branches; then the duty of the power is 
but begun. lUit, above all other things, it must immediately open 
up some means of communication at once sure, rapid, and economical. 

The African problem at this time, therefore, resolves itself into a 
question of the construction of a system of railroads. Since the con- 
tinent is too compact to be opened through waterways, the only prac- 
tical means of reaching the interior is by recourse to the locomotive. 

Everything considered, the railroad is the peaceable but none the 
less decisive force which, ably directed, will determine the industrial 
and commercial supremacy in Africa. Some European countries, 
more inspired that their rivals, realized this fact long ago. Taking 
the lead, they have unrolled ribbons of steel toward distant inland 



a Translated and abridged, by permission, from tlie Revue Ueneralo des Sci- 
ences I'ures et Ai)i)liquees. I'aris. Mar. ir», i;X)4. 

6 "Where economic supremacy subsists political rivalry is not dangerous; 
where political supremacy subsists economic rivalry can undermine it: where 
neither subsist economic invasion prevents political invasion by a rival." Alex- 
ander T'lar : England, Russia, and Thibet. (The Contemporary Review, Decem- 
ber, 1902.) 

SM 1904 46 "-^ 



722 THE- ECONOMIC CONQUEST OF AFRICA BY THE RAILROADS. 



posts, which, iimch to their profit, are to-day centers of economic 
progress. These advances have enabled the more alert nations to 
acquire without opposition very favorable positions and to attain, 
for the moment at least, an unquestionable advantage. 



J ^_^ <- - (tmslanl'ne. tAa*^ 




Fig. 1.— Mai) of Africa, showing? railroads in oporutiuu and under construction. 

An examination of the accompanying map (fig. 1) will show that 
properly speaking there are but three railroad systems in Africa — the 
Tunis- Algerian, the Egyptian, and the South African. The first 
named is complete in itself. The other two will serve as bases on the 
north and south for the great artery from Cairo to the Cape. As for 



THE ECONOMIC CONQUEST OF AFRICA BY TIIK RAII.UOADS. 728 

transverse routes, the English, (iernian, juul P()rtu<i:iH'se ronds on the 
coast of the Indian Ocean, together with the Belgian, English, and 
Portuguese enterprises on the South Atlantic, constitute the begin- 
nings, already well developed, of (wo or possibly three lines of direct 
communication between the east and west coasts lying below the 
equator. 

Einally, there are those French, English, and (Jerman railroads of 
Western Africa, like those on the Ked Sea, entirely independent, and 
built for the purpose of connecting with navigable rive;-s or opening 
a meiyis of exi)ortation for the goods of some inland country. 
Among the roads in operation and already more or less connected 
which are noAv being organized in the principal colonies are three or 
four proposed transcontinental lines — one from the Mediterranean 
to the Cape, and the others from the Atlantic to the Indian Ocean. 
The work on these is being pushed forward simultaneously from both 
ends. Besides the great systems alread}^ spoken of, there are a num- 
ber of isolated roads running from the coast short distances into the 
interior. Entirely autonomous, each with its peculiar object, these 
little roads are built as occasion demands, and are in several territories 
already at work. Such, at the beginning of the twentieth century, is 
the situation in Africa with regard to railroads." 

The first railroads established in Algeria more than thirty-five 
years ago — the Algiers-Oran and the Philleville-Oran routes — were 
concessions to the Compagnie Paris-Lyon-Mediterranee. Companies 
exclusively Algerian were formed in 1875, and for the next sixteen or 
seventeen years these companies constructed continually. But since 

a Below is a table which recapitulates for the year 1903 the length, in miles, 
of the railroads now in operation in the different regions of Africa : 



French colonies : Miles. 

Algeria 1. 82li 

586 

524 

184 

90 



Tunis 

West Africa _ 

Djibouti 

Reunion Isle. 



3, 206 

Egypt : 

State roads 1,395 

Private companies 712 

Military line in Sudan 776 



2, 883 



122 
596 



English colonies : 

Cape Colony 

Natal 

Transvaal and Orange Free 

State 1.322 

Rhodesia 1' 1^3 

Bast Africa 582 



English colonies- 
West Africa 
Mauritius __ 



-Continued. 



German colonies : 

East Africa 

Southwest Africa- 



I'ortuguese colonies : 

Dongola 

Mozambique 



Italian colony : 

Eritrea 

Congo Free State- 



Miles. 
186 



6.039 



31 
121 



152 



338 
249 



587 



247 
247 



Grand total 13, 121 



724 THE ECONOMIC CONQUEST OF AFRICA BY THE RAILRO.\DS. 

that time the Parliament has shown itself indisposed to grant further 
appropriations and everything is at a standstill. During the last 
decade three roads of purely local interest have been developed at 
the expense of the national system. 

The great central Algerian railroad runs parallel with the seacoast 
from Tlemcen to Sidi-el-Hani, a distance of about 750 miles. At 
Oran it divides into two short branches. Tunis, at the other ex- 
tremity, is connected by branches with the principal ports of three 
provinces. There are three inland roads, no one of which, however, 
can be extended independently into the interior. Railroad construc- 
tion in Algeria is practically at a standstill. 

In fact France seems to be committed to what the English call a 
" masterlv inactivity." She has neglected to take advantage of the 




Fid. 2.— Systems of Algiers and Tunis. 

incomparable base of operations for an advance into the interior 
offered by her Mediterranean possessions, and in the possessions 
themselves has contented herself with an insignificant system, the 
elaboration of which is too often governed by political considera- 
tions rather than those of a purely economical nature. 

When the contracts are rewritten, the companies merged, the 
tariff revised, and the headquarters moved from Paris to Algiers, 
the work of construction in Algeria will receive a new impulse. 
However it may come about, the new era will put an end to the 
standstill policy and inaugurate a period of progress. The inde- 
pendence in financial affairs which the colony now enjoys gives the 
means of appropriating necessary money for railroads. To the 
great profit and economic glory of French North Africa rational 
extensions will be undertaken as the occasion arises. 



THE ECONOMIC CONQUEST OF AFRICA BY THE RAILROADS. 725 

In sharp contrast with Alfjcria the protectorate of Tunis is woik- 
ing ener<;eti('ally to provide the rc'ji'encv with a nunilu'r of railroads. 
One company, th(r Bone-Guchna, has built the whole system with 
the single exception of the line from Sfax to Gafsa, which was 
established solely for the i)urpose of hauling the crude ph()s])hates 
from Metlaoui. The " old '' system, as it is called, is the extension 
to Tunis of the Algerian main line ; the " new " system is made up of 
coastwise lines, with three branches into the interior. 

The next step will be the extension of these branches far enough 
inland to make them commercial lines. Such was the intent of 
the law of April 30, 1908, which authorized the Tunisian Government 
to make contracts to the extent of $8,000,000. P'rom Pont du Fahs, 
a line will be run as far as Kalaat-es-Senar and then be turned 
toward Sbiba. Both of these places are in the midst of great phos- 
phate beds, AAhich the franchise holders are not only allowed but 
expected to work. Another road will be run from the iron district 
of Nezfas .to Bizerta, and Sfax will be connected with the Sonsse 
system, bi-inging into the system the now isolated Sfax-Gafsa line. 

One can not but remark the rational and just policy which has pre- 
vailed in this protectorate; everything has been worked out with an 
eye to the economic development of the country. But it is only 
fair to say that Tunis has enjoyed from the beginning the freedom 
of action which Algiers achieved only last year. Political inter- 
ference, so common in Algiers, and petty local rivalries, like those 
of Oran and Constantine and Bone, are scarcely to be found in the 
land of the bey. 

The only one of these town struggles worth mentioning is that 
between Bizerta and Tunis. Bizerta, a port of some military impor- 
tance, is desirous of becoming a great connnercial center as well. 
Its interests therefore clash with Bone on one hand and with Tunis 
on the other; but this rivalry has had an effect beneficial rather than 
otherwise on the railroad development. 

The European power to whom the honor of having done the great- 
est work toward the introduction of the railroad into Africa is, 
unquestionably, England. Before long British locomotives will cross 
the continent from Cairo to the Cape. In the northeast they already 
run to Khartoum, a distance of nearly 1,400 miles from Alexandria. 
Egyptian trains which formerly had their terminal at Assiut (225 
miles south of Cairo), now go 78 miles farther on tracks laid by the 
English in 1881 to reach Keneh. From this point to Assuan, near 
the first cataract of the Nile, the road is in the hands of a private cor- 
poration. Still farther on is the military line into Sudan, pieced 
onto the Egyptian system by the little fragment built in 1874-75 
between the first and second cataracts. 



726 THE ECONOMIC CONQUEST OF AFRICA BY THE RAILROADS. 

This military line is interesting for many reasons. It has two 
branches, one through the Nubian desert and the other extending 
into the province of Dongola. Although laid with extreme repidity, 
the average expenditure per mile did not exceed $15,200. Of course 
there were practically no great feats of engineering involved. At 
one place there is a straight level stretch of 45 miles. The declivities 
average less than 0.008 m. and, excepting the Atbara bridge, some 
1,200 feet long, there was no particular difficulty of construction. 

But the hasty manner in which the road was built entails constant 
repair and necessitates a series of supplementary Avorks, v,^hich will 
increase somewhat the initial cost per mile. 




Fig 3.— Egyptian system. 

The roads south of Wady Haifa already furnish very useful data 
concerning railway operations in a desert country. On them it is 
possible to make observation on the rapid wearing away of the rails 
by the sand and the destruction of the cross-ties by neuptera. "Water 
trains are found necessary, since in the whole stretch of 237 miles 
between Wady Haifa and Abou-Hamed water could be reached but 
twice — then by boring, in one case 858 feet and in the other 975 feet. 

At the point last named, although the summer heat is excessive, 
there is a roundhouse for locomotives, with a shop for small repairs. 
The main shops at Wady Haifa and Shendi have the very difficult 



THE ECONOMIC CONQUESI' oi' AI'MtICA l!V TilK liAl LIJOADS. 727 

task of keeping in i-miniiiii- oi'dci' scnch (liUcicnt tyjx's of locc^inotives, 
ganuMvd by the luililary aiithorilics in llu-ir liaslo (o open the road. 

The ^veekIy sclu'dulc at jjrcscnt inchidcs (wo express ti'ains, ad- 
mirably e<iui[)[)ed with parlor, bullet, and sleeping ears. Besides 
these a mixed freight and passenger ti'ain starts daily from each end 
of the line. The shipments to the south consist of military stoiH's 
and construction materials, while the noi'thern freights are made uj) 
of rubber, ivory, ostrich plumes, and grain. As the list indicates, 
the tonnage is still of very modest dimensions, yet it is sufficient to 
pay a good share of the expenses of oj^eration. 




CJi'-U'Ar.s <.l^ fh'' €7lj- 

ejcploiUUuiiv a_ 

Chcm.dof.eaconst"^ 
:= I OH, projctes » 



FiCi. 4.— South African system. 



The extension to I^ake Albert of the northern section of the i)ro- 
posed transcontinental road between Cairo and the Cape is postponed 
for the present. Instead the English have decided to undertake the 
construction of a road from the Nile to the Red Sea. The attempt 
to join Berber and Suakin was abandoned in 1881, after an inmiense 
amount of money had been spent on some 20 miles of road ; but the 
project has been revived, and to-day work is being done on both ends 
of a road between Suakin and Khartoum by way of Kassala. From 
Kassala it is planned to run a great southern line through Abyssinia 
to Lake Rudolph, and thus connect the Egyptian system with that 
of eastern Africa. 



728 THE ECONOMIC CONQUEST OF AFRICA BY THE RAILROADS. 

The counterpart of the continuous semicircle of railroads from the 
Mediterranean to the Indian Ocean, which is still in a state of pro- 
jection above the equator, exists as a fact in the southern part of the 
continent, for, on October 6, 1002, at a point 600 miles from the east- 
ern coast and 1,365 miles from the Cape, was made the junction be- 
tween the lines running westward from Beira by way of Salisbury 
and those running northward from Cape Town b}' Bulawayo. 

During the last twelve years the South African railroad system 
has grown with astonishing rapidity. When the chartered company 
was founded, in 1889, the road from the Cape went only to Kimber- 
ley and that from Beira was not even thought of. To-day, after a 
period of feverish activity to which not even the Anglo-Boer war 
could put an end, the number of miles of railroad in the vicinity of 
the Cape is nothing short of marvelous." 

In Rhodesia especially, under the resistless energy of Cecil Rhodes, 
the railway has taken a great leap forward. The Cape Colony 
road comes to an end at Vryburg; beyond that point the construc- 
tion of the southern section of the Cairo transcontinental line is 
assumed by the Chartered Company, which steadily continues its 
progress toward the north. Bulaw^a}'© was passed some time since ; 
Wankies, with its coal fields, has just been reached. To the 200 
miles just completed will soon be added the 72 which lie between 
Wankies and the Zambesi. A bridge, nearly 700 feet long, across 
the river just below the celebrated Victoria Falls, will enable the 
locomotive to reach the copper mines recently discovered in Rhodesia. 
Ascending to an altitude of 5,000 feet, the road will proceed toward 
Lake Cheroma. On the salubrious plateau in which the lake is 
situated the company proposes to establish one of its princijial 
transcontinental stations, which, it is expected, will prove very 
important from a sanitary viewpoint. The proposed line then 
descends to the level of Lake Tanganyika and terminates at Abercorn, 
on the southern extremity of the lake. 

It will then remain only to cross the Belgian and German territory 
which lies between Tanganyika and Victoria Nyanza, the final sec- 



Length of So th African railways. 








System. 


Lines in 
opera- 
tion in 
1902. 


Lines un- 
der con- 
struc- 
tion- 


Total. 




2,394 
1,632 

182 


1,025 
559 


3,419 




2,191 




182 


Natal government roads 


611 


297 


908 




1,337 627 
58 


1,964 




58 






Total 


6,214 2.508 


8,722 











THE ECONOMTO CONQUEST OF AFRICA P.V TIIK RAILROADS. 729 

lion of r)-2() iniU's bolwiH'ii Tjiji and ]M('n<j:(). All this is hut va<i:uc 
l)lannii)<i- so far, because there has been as yet no understanding with 
Kongo or with (lonnany. 

Moreov(>r. all the railroad activitj^ in Rhodesia just now is in the 
iuinu'diate vicinity of Bonloiiwayo. This capital, which aspires to 
become the Chicago of South Africa, is so rai)idly becoming a center 
for coal roads that it looks as if its ideal will be attained in the near 
future. The coal fields at Wankies, near by, are of a wonderful 
richness. They cover an area of more than 600 square miles, with 
deposits (') feet thick of coal almost equal to the better English 
grades. The opening of these fields will greatly aid the economic 
development of the country and largely increase the use of railroads. 
It is noteworthy that, in spite of the Boer war, the commerce of 
Rhodesia has increased 400 per cent during the past six years. 

The three i)rincipal African systems present the greatest diversity 
in their efpiipment, but in no respect is the variety of types more 
marked than in the matter of the gauge of the track. The width 
varies from 0.00 meter at Swakopmund, in the German southwest, 
to 1.435 meters in the Algeria-Tunis system, but everything indicates 
that the narrow-gauge, from 1 to 1.007 meters, which is now most 
common, will be used almost exclusively in the future. 

After having overcome every obstacle and put into successful 
operation the railroad of low'er Kongo, the Free State is now plan- 
ning to open means of comnninication with its eastern frontiers. 
It jjroposes to establish, within six or seven years, a line nuuiing 
across the continent from west to east, which wnll combine transpor- 
tation by rail and steamboat. 

' AMien this line is com])leted, passengers and freight will be car- 
ried over the following route: By sea to Matadi, in the navigable 
estuary of the Kongo; by rail from Matadi to Leopoldville (Stan- 
ley pool), a distance of 242 miles; by steamer to Stanley Falls. At 
Stanley Falls the road branches; the northeast arm comprises a rail- 
road to Lake Albert, boat across the lake, railroad between Lake 
x\lbert and Victoria Nyanza, boat across Nyanza, and the Uganda 
Railroad to Mombassa, on the Indian Ocean. The east and south- 
east branch will consist of a railroad, to avoid the rapids, and a 
steamer for a 300-mile voyage up the river to Kassongo, where 
the road again branches. One of its arms will reach Albertville, on 
the west shore of Lake Tanganyika, whence the German lines on the 
opposite side are expected to put it into conununication with the 
coast. The other section will continue by boat up the Kongo as 
far as it is navigable, avoiding the rapids by railroad. The posi- 
tion thus obtained on the southern borders of the Free State will 
ultimatelv. it is expected, be put into communication with the North 
• Rhodesia system. 



730 THE ECONOMIC CONQUEST OF AFRICA BY THE RAILROADS. 

East of Stanleyville this Belgian transcontinental ronte, with its 
alternate locomotives and steamboats, will spread out, fanlike, in 
three directions. The line in the center, with the assistance of the 
German roads, will go direct to the east coast; the two extreme 
routes will open out on the English system, so as to establish unin- 
terrupted traffic with Cairo on the north and the Cape on the south. 
The accomplishment of this project, as a whole, would bring about 
a complete transformation of the equatorial regions, which would 
in turn affect every part of tlie African continent. 

Before the opening of the lower Kongo line the transportation of 
a ton of merchandise from Stanley Pool to Matadi took twenty-one 
days and cost $-200. Now the journey is made in twenty-one hours, 
with a proportionate reduction in cost. The effect of this on the 
production of rubber is significant. In 1887 there were exported 
30 tons, with an aggregate value of $21,355; in 1900 the amount 
shipped exceeded 5,300 tons, and was valued at $7,974,801. 

Adequate transportation from Stanley Pool to Stanley Falls is 
assured by the presence of a fleet of over 100 steamers. The largest 
of them belong to the Kongo Free State, which owns nearly 30 ; the 
Belgians operate a score, and the French 40 or more. 

The work on the line between Stanley Falls and Mahagi is now 
completed. Although the way had to be cut through the virgin for- 
est the task was not an extraordinarily hard one. Except for the 
swamps there were no real obstacles. The passage over the Blue 
Mountains between the valleys of the Kongo and the Nile entailed a 
great expense, but failed to raise any difficult problems in engineer- 
ing. Mahagi. the northernmost of the Belgian stations on the Nile. 
looks down upon Lake Albert. Having an excellent climate, good 
air, and atmospheric conditions favorable to Europeans, it is emi- 
nently suitable for the terminal depot of a great railroad. 

Meanwhile the P^nglish have got the start on the Belgians in the 
region of the great equatorial lakes. Early in 1902 the locomotive 
made its appearance on the border of Victoria-Nyanza ; the last rails 
of the Uganda Kailroad had just been laid. This enterprise may 
well be considered the greatest triumph of African railroad construc- 
tion. It offers a unique example of a single stretch of nearly (500 
miles of rail run through an absolutely uncivilized country, where 
obstacles of every kind accumulated in a manner truly extraordi- 
nary." 

For the first 180 miles the engineers had to contend with the terrible 
climate of the low coast regions, as deadly to man as was the tsetse 
fly to the beasts of burden. The mortality among the latter, imported 

a Correspondence concerning the Uganda Railway. Report to Parliament, 
July, 1901. 



THE ECONOMfC CONQUEST OF AFRIOA liY THE KAII.HOAUS. 731 

from tlio Cape, Cyprus, and India was fri<^litl'ul. Ainon^- the lahorci's 
the avorago rate of death by fever was over 8 per cent. Native work- 
men were entirely hiekin^', and it was necessary to brin*; more than 
2().()()() Indian coolies, whose trans})ortation and kee[) cMtailed a heavy 
exi)ense. Since the resources of the country were practically noth- 
in*;. such an army of laborers could not be maintained without having 
all the provisions shipped from Bombay and Colombo. It was 
especially difficult to secure fresh water during the building of the 
first 250 miles. Thus handicapped the work of construction ad- 
vanced very slowly. 

On reaching the mountains the situation changed completely. The 
insanitary conditions disappeared; an abundant supply of fresh 
water w'as found. But as the troubles about workmen were dimin- 
ished, in their j)lace arose great technical problems. The complete 
ignorance of the engineers as to the behavior of the water in that 
region during the rainy season made it very difficult to plan bridges 
and viaducts. Moreover the scarcity of construction materials com- 
plicated continually the work of the builders. For example, it was 
impossible to tind any suital)le brick clay. 

The work was begun in 1896 and finished six years later. The line, 
which extends 587 miles over a variet}'^ of levels, begins at Kilendini, 
on the Island of jNlonbasa, and terminates at Port Florence, on Victo- 
ria Nyanza. The tracks consist of 55-pound rails laid on metal ties, 
except in spots where the sun is so scorching that it was necessary to 
use wood ties treated with creosote." 

The stations are built partly of masonry and partly of sheet iron, 
corrugated and galvanized. In 1902 the company owned 92 loco- 
motives, of which 22 were switch engines; there are 154 i^assenger 
and 1,128 freight cars. A daily train is run, besides an express and 
four freights each w^eek. Ordinarily the rate of speed is about 15 
miles an hour, the whole run taking nearly two days. During the 
year 1901-2 the shipments did not exceed 11,000 tons in and 1,250 
tons out; the gross receipts were only $850,000. Since the expense of 
construction was over $26,000,000, the question naturally arises as to 
how^ far the results thus far obtained have justified this expenditure. 

Without dwelling on the fact that the line has not yet completed its 
second year, it is necessary to call attention to the great change that 
the establishment of the railroad has wrought in English East Africa. 
Indian merchants have established stock farms along the line and 
opened markets at the principal stations. Their stores are all well 
stocked, particularly that at Nairoli, where manufactured articles of 
every description and even luxuries may be obtained at a very slight 
advance over regular prices. 

o These wood ties are uot attacked by the white ants. 



732 THE ECONOMIC CONQUEST OF AFRICA BY THE RAILROADS. 

Nairoli, chosen on account of its healthfulness as the center of 
operations for the road, is a bustling little city of 5,000 inhabitants 
in a spot where solitude once reigned supreme. 

In the Kikuyu region agriculture has made decided progress. In 
the extensive gardens there are raised nearly every variety of the 
vegetables and fruits of Great Britain. 

At Port Florence a wooden pier extends 130 feet into the lake, so 
that the steamers can land wnthout difficulty. 

The Uganda Protectorate owns two steamboats of GOO tons dis- 
placement; these draw less than 5 feet of water, but can carry 12 
first-class and 100 deck passengers, besides a good cargo. Stopping 
at the principal points, it takes three days to make the trip from Port 
Florence to Entebbe, halfway round the lake. 

Taking into consideration, therefore, the whole of this new state 
of affairs which has come into Uganda and the Upper Nile with the 
opening of the railroads, one can but see that it will not be long 
before England's financial sacrifice will be rewarded by the rapid 
economic advance of these rich provinces which have been enabled 
to enjoy quick and reasonable transportation. The aftermath will 
be a continued growth of shipments by rail and a corresponding 
growth in the receipts of the railroad. 

Having looked at all the English and Belgian projects for a trans- 
continental road from east to west, there still remain to be considered 
two colonies on opposite coasts — German East Africa and the Portu- 
guese colonies on the Atlantic. 

The projects most favored in Berlin are intended primarily to 
join Tanganyika with the Indian Ocean. But the lack of enthusiasm 
shown by the Reichstag for African enterprises has not encouraged 
the administration to ask for the necessary funds. Only the most 
modest enterj)rises have been undertaken, although, according to 
governors von Liebert and Goetzan, the rapid development of rail- 
roads is a question of life and death for the eastern colony. The 
embryo system of German East Africa now consists of the first sec- 
tion of the Usambara railroad, the fifty miles getween Tanga and 
Korogwe. Begun in March, 1902, this portion has cost thus far 
0,500,000 marks; it will be extended 40 miles to Mombo. Owners 
of coffee plantations in the colony expect to derive great benefits when 
this line finally put in working order. Just now the efforts of the 
colonists are directed toward obtaining permission from the Reich- 
stag to construct immediately the 142-mile line between Dar-es-Sa- 
laam and Mrogoro. 

On the Atlantic coast the Portuguese have for a long time operated 
the line from Loando to Ambaka, an important industrial center; 
this is to be extended eventually to Malanji, but there is no thought of 
crossing the continent in this enterprise. 



THE ECONOMIC CONQUEST OF AFRICA BY THE RAILROADS. 733 

An entirely different idea obtains in the minds of the promoters of 
the Angohi-Benguehi raih-oad which was conceded to an English 
company in 11)02 by the Govennnent at Lisbon. The proposed route 
starts at the Bay of Lobito, follows the boundaries of the two prov- 
inces, runs as far as Caconda and stops for the moment, after a run 
of 850 miles, on the eastern boundary of the Portuguese possessions. 
The work is to be completed within eight years; the company has 
reserved for itself, among other privileges, the right of working the 
forests of the State and that — a very valuable one — of working all 
the mines found within a zone of seventy-five miles on either side of 
the track. 

Without waiting to see the outcome of this tremendous project, 
the characteristic enterprise of the British has inaugurated a second 
scheme to be developed simultaneously. Being the owner of the 
great copper and lead mines at Tsumel, the South West African Com- 
pany decided to build a railroad to Port Alexandria in Middle 
Angola to put them in communication with the Atlantic. In making 
plans for this, they suddenly hit upon the scheme of running from 
the same terminal a transcontinental line eastward to the capital of 
Transvaal. This road will intersect the Capetown-Buhuvayo line 
about Gaberon, making the junction at a point 630 miles from Port 
Alexandria and 458 miles Capetown. Since these two towns are 
about 1,260 miles apart on the shore line, and since Capetown is only 
204 miles nearer Pretoria than is Port Alexandria, it seems but rea- 
sonable to presume that in the future the commerce of Western 
Europe with the old Boer republic and Rhodesia will go by way of 
Port Alexandria, which will in that case become a formidable rival 
tothe capital of the Cape of Good Hope. 

Having reviewed the three great systems and the various trans- 
verse lines, it now only remains to glance at the series of independent 
roads, the larger number of which are in the west coast colonies. In 
rhis field of action, more restricted but very interesting nevertheless, 
the first place belongs undoubtedly to France. For some years that 
country has displayed real energy and impartiality in an effort to 
hasten the introduction of the locomotive. 

The Senegal road from Dakar to St. Louis for a long time was the 
one favored "enterprise. Construction on the railway directed inland 
towards the Niger dragged desperately; it seemed as though every 
possible obstacle was thrown in the way of its achievement. Things 
are at last beginning to look brighter. Two hundred miles of the 
road is now in actual operation, the embankments have reached a 
point 100 miles beyond Kiba, and will go as far as Koulikoro in 1904. 
AVithin eighteen or twenty months the entire 350 miles between 
Kayes and the Niger will be put into use. 



734 THE ECONOMIC CONQUEST OF AFRICA BY THE RAILROADS. 

This event will exercise an incalculable influence on the agricul- 
tural and commercial development of the vast regions situated in tlie 
bend of the great river. To accentuate the value of this road, which 
w^ill be of especial benefit to the culture of cotton, the governor-gen- 
eral of AVestern Africa is planning a line from Thies to Kayes. This 
w^ould make an unbroken stretch of rails from the ocean to the Niger. 

Farther east, the railroad starting from Cotonou will eventually 
reach the same stream at Carimana above the falls of Boussa. Thus 
the whole group of French colonies of the West Coast will be girdled 
by a semicircular artery of trade, 1,200 miles of which will consist of 
navigable river. 

The Dahomey line was begun in 1900;' at the end of two years ()0 
miles of it was in actual use. A few months ago a locomotive had 
been run a distance of 150 miles to the temporary terminal at Paouig- 
nan. From here it is expected to go, without much difficulty, to the 
Niger at Carimana, about 500 miles from the sea. 

In Guinea the road from Konkary to the Niger has about 90 miles 
of tracks laid; no doubt tAvo or three years will pass before it attains 
Timbo. 

Ivory Coast, like the other French colonies, has cherished a railway 
scheme for a long time, but has been continually put off by the flurry 
over gold discoveries. A recent decision by the ministry, ordering 
to be constructed the first 45 miles of the proposed line, has finally 
brought satisfaction. As in Guinea and Dahomey, the road will be 
built under the direction of the engineer corps of the army, which in 
this instance will have complete supervision of both track and 
roadbed. 

Any account of French railroad operations in the Dark Continent 
would be incomplete did it not mention the line, which has so aroused 
the jealousy of the British, thrown out toward the high plateaus of 
Abyssinia by the Somali coast. The firm and sensible position 
taken in the matter by the P^rench Government in 1902 has not yet 
reaped its full reward. The climate at the base of operations on the 
Red Sea is so unfavorable, and the country to be traversed so moun- 
tainous, that the road will not reach Harar for nearly six years. 
Since February, 1903, plans have been made for its further extension 
to Addis- Abeda. 

The English as yet have litle reason to felicitate themselves on the 
results of their railroad building in the Guinea Gulf colonies. In 
Gold Coast, the Government, after spending $47,000 a kilometer on 
40 miles of track, was glad to turn the work over to a contractor, who 
agreed to finish the 140-mile section between Tarkoua and Kumassi 
for $21,000 a kilometer. One hundred miles of the railroad, from 
Sekondi to the gold beds of Ashanti, is noAv completed. 



THE ECONOMIC CONQUEST OF AFRICA BY TIFE RAILROADS. 785 

In Lagos the -work was carried on a little more economically; 
there it cost only $30,000 to lay a kilometer of track. This line is 
now running between the coast and Ibadan; it is to be extended 
northward some V20 miles. On reaching the Nigei- it will be con- 
tinued up the left bank of the river in the direction of Zoungeiou, 
the new capital of Nigeria. This bit of railroading is undertaken 
at the suggestion of Sir Francis Lugard, with a view to oi)ening up 
the vast stretches of land suitable for cotton raising. 

The German Agricultural Company in Kamerun is busily occupied 
in covering the whole of its concessions with a web of industrial 
lines. But this purely local Avork is insignificant when placed along- 
side of that proposed by a Berlin syndicate organized in 1902, which 
expects to have completed by 1005 a line runing northeast 130 miles 
into the interior. The importance of this road will be realized when 
it is understood that it will probably form the first section of a great 
German trunk line, 340 miles long, which will have its tei-minus on the 
shore of Lake Chad. In return for the services which this line will 
render to the cocoa, tobacco, and cotton plantations it has been granted 
50 hectares of land. Besides this the railroad expects as soon as its 
locomotives have worked into Borneo, to draw into its hands the entire 
commerce of central Soudan. 

The German possessions in the southw^est have not fallen behind; 
they also have there 120 miles of railroad between Tsoakhaubnumd 
and Windhoek. The whole distances is in working order, and the 
road is especially valuable in carrying Government supplies. In 
the olden days it used to cost $96 to haul a ton of merchandise on an 
ox cart from the coast to Windhoek; it now costs but $11.20 on the 
raihvay. 

Thanks to the services of this road and to the great granite jetty 
recently constructed in connection with it, Tsoakhaubmund is des- 
tined to become the shipping place of the copper taken from the mines 
at Otavi. 

From this brief discussion of railroad activity in the Dark (Conti- 
nent several general conclusions are apparent. 

England, through her various roads and her much talked of trans- 
continental from Cairo to the Cape is already assured the com- 
mercial supremacy of eastern north and south Afi'ica: in fact of a 
good half of the Dark Continent. The Kongo Free State will derive 
in the near future the riches, agricultural and commercial, of her vast 
territories by the opening of a giant system, in which river and rail- 
road will aid in forming a great transverse artery in the zone of the 
equator. In western Africa the preponderant part devolves unques- 
tionably upon France. 



THE 1*KESENT ASPECTS OF THE PANAMA CANAL." 



By William 11. Burr. 



Inasmuch as it is scarcely nine months since the present Isthmian 
Canal Commission was created, and as the first month and a half of 
that time was nearly wholly occupied in its first visit to the Isthmus 
for the purj)ose of inspecting; the work about to be acquired by the 
United States, any view of the Panama Canal project at this early 
date must be a consideration of what has been transmitted from the 
New Panama Canal Company to the United States Government, 
rather than a review of plans adopted or of methods of construction 
for the great work undertaken. Indeed, it must be borne in mind 
that the title of the Panama Canal property was actually transferred 
to the United States Government only on May 4, 1904, so that the 
Commission has been in control of the canal property but seven 
months at this writing. 

The full report of the former Isthmian Canal Commission of its 
work performed " with a view to determining the most practicable 
and feasible route for " a ship canal across the American Isthmus is a 
complete compendium, not only of all data existing at that time re- 
garding the canal property, but also a comprehensive statement of the 
plans and estimates of that Commission regarding the type of canal 
recommended by it. The conditions under which the canal is to be 
built and the character of the ocean traffic to be accommodated have 
changed so radically within the period elapsed since the old Panama 
Canal Company went into bankruptcy that the work before the pres- 
ent Isthmian Canal Commission must necessarily be largely inde- 
pendent of anything hitherto contemplated, and its plans must be de- 
veloped and completed for practically an entirely ncAv project. This 
is a necessary procedure for a number of important reasons. Among 
others, during the past three years, even, material developments in 
the size and motive power of steamships have been made and those 
developments are in active progress at the present time. Steamships 
over 700 feet long have been built, and there are already serious state- 



1 Reprinted, by permission, from The Engineering Magazine, New York, Jan- 
uary, 1905. 

SM 1004 17 '^'•^'^ 



738 THE PRESENT ASPECTS OF THE PANAMA CANAL. 

ments from ocean transportation companies regarding the building of 
ships approaching 800 feet in length. Loaded vessels have entered 
or left the harbor of New York with a draft of 32 or 33 feet and pos- 
sibh^ a little more. For these general reasons the former Commission 
prescribed a bottom width of 150 feet for the canal and a depth of 
water of 35 feet. Although it is not probable that the greatest ships 
afloat will, immediately after its completion, seek the Panama Canal, 
it is practically certain that the opening of such a canal will shift 
some lines of ocean traffic and stimulate others, so that it is a measure 
of Avisdom only to follow the instructions given to the former Com- 
mission and tacitly at least to the present Commission, to construct a 
waterway which shall aflford accommodation for the largest ships 
afloat. 

The Panama Canal line will be practically identical with that first 
adopted by the old Panama Canal Company and subsequently ac- 
cepted by the new Panama Canal Company. There will certainly be 
some modifications of details of alignment, but in the main the French 
location was well considered, and the canal will be built upon it. 
There is still an open question as to the advisability of what is known 
as the Tiger Hill alternative, which was so strongly advocated by 
the late Mr. George S. Morison, member of the former Commission. 
This alternative line was originally surveyed and located by Com- 
mander Lull, U. S. Navy, in 1875. It covers that portion of the 
canal location between Gatun, about miles from Colon, and Bohio, 
about 17 miles from the same point. It is a shorter line than the 
French location by about Ij miles. It also has the advantage of mov- 
ing the canal line away from the Chagres River to the foot of the high 
ground easterly of that river and throughout a portion of its length 
materially higher than the low marshes along the course of the river. 
It has two disadvantages : One, that the excavation of the old Panama 
Canal Company between Gatun and Bohio would be abandoned, 
necessitating a correspondingly increased amount of new excavation: 
and the other, that the canal i)rism Avould be carried for a consider- 
al)le distance between Tiger Hill and Bohio within an embankment 
attaining a height in some places of nearly or quite '20 feet and rest- 
ing on soft ground. The necessary data for the determination of this 
and other features of modified alignment have been already largely 
secured, enabling such questions to be satisfactorily answered in the 
near future. 

The total length of the Panama Canal between G-fathom curves in 
the two oceans is 49.0!) miles, of which about 17 miles on the Carib- 
bean side and 8^ miles on the Pacific side, i. e., practically one-half 
the length of the canal, is to be excavated through low, marshy 
ground little above sea level. These two portions of the line consti- 
tute the Atlantic and Pacific sea levels in the plans of the new Panama 



THE PRESENT ASPECTS OF THE PANAMA CANAL. 789 

Canal Company as avcII as of the former Isthmiiin Canal Connnission. 
This is an important feature of the pi-ojeet, esix'cially in considerinpj 
ultimately whether a sea-level canal or canal with locks shall he huilt, 
for it indicates that in any event a little more than one-half of the 
canal will be a sea-level waterway. Will it, then, he advisable to give 
to the remainder (less than half the length) the same freedom from 
restriction of locks to navigation? 

The intermediate 24 miles of canal line cover the higher portions 
of the low saddle in the Cordillera at the Panama crossing. The 
highest point in this saddle before any excavation was made at 
Culebra was about 330 feet above mean sea level. The length of 
this deepest canal cutting through Culebra Hill is scarcely 3,000 feet. 
Strictly speaking, the heavy part of the summit cut, comprising 
what is ordinarily known as the Emperador and Culebra cuts, is not 
more than miles in length, and its original surface elevation, with 
the exception of the Culebra portion, averages about 175 feet above 
mean sea level. The natural slope from the Culebra Cut toward the 
Pacific is relatively abrupt, it being but 4 miles from the cut to Mira- 
flores, at which both the former Commission and the New Panama 
Canal Company located their first lock on the Pacific side of the 
Isthmus. The slope from the northerly end of the sunnnit cut at 
Emperador toward the Caribbean is relatively gentle, the distance 
from Emperador to Bohio, where the New Panama Canal Company 
and the former Commission located the first lock on the Caribbean 
side of the Isthmus, being 16 miles. No well-developed plans for 
either of the terminal harbors have been nnide up to this time, but 
such plans are now being thoroughly considered by the present 
Commission. 

The Old Panama Canal Company, which began its operations in 
1881, planned a sea-level canal having a depth of water of 29.5 feet, 
and bottom width of 72 feet. It carried on work actively until 1889, 
when it suspended operations and went into bankruptcy, its exca- 
vations amounting to a total of about 72,000,000 cul)ic yards. The 
New Panama Canal Company has excavated about 8,000,000 cubic 
yards since that time. The Avork of excavation of the old company 
was distributed over parts of the entire line, although there were 
considerable portions of the line on which no excavation at all was 
made. Over some other portions of the location relatively small 
quantities of material only were taken out. The largest parts of 
this work were performed within about 12 miles of Colon,^within 
about 5 miles of Panama, and within a distance of about 7 miles, 
including the great Culebra and Emperador cuts. The excavation 
along the sea-level portions of the canal at either end was all made 
in soft ground, but in the excavation in the Emperador and Culebra 
cuts, as well as at Obispo, near the point where the Chagres River 



740 THE PRESENT ASPECTS OF THE PANAMA CANAL. 

first cuts the line of the canal as it flows toward the sea, considerable 
rock was found, some of it being dense and hard. In addition to 
this Avork of actual excavation, the French companies, especially the 
New Panama Canal Company, accumulated a large amount of avail- 
able information regarding the subsurface material and depth of 
bed rock at many points along the line. The examinations, includ- 
ing jet borings at the proposed Bohio and Gamboa dam sites and for 
the proposed dam at Alajuela higher up the river, are included in 
this portion of their operations. The performance of this large 
amount of excavation work and the investigations disclosing infor- 
mation regarding the subsurface materials have largely revealed 
with certainty the character of the greater part of the work to be 
done in completing a ship canal. In other words, they reduce 
materially those exigencies of such a great work which consume 
lime and add to the cost. 

Of the total excavation hitherto made and amounting to about 
80,000,000 cubic yards, probably not more than one-half will be avail- 
able in the construction work to be planned by the present Commis- 
sion. This, however, constitutes an available asset of much vahie. 

There is another asset, available to an uncertain extent, in the im- 
mense quantity of material and plant, left largely in well-kept ware- 
houses but otherwise spread along the entire line in an exposed 
condition. The ai)parent book value of all this material, as shown 
in the records of the New Panama Canal Company, is about 
$29,000,000. By far the greater part of this value is now imaginary 
only. A considerable part of the plant and a large amount of the 
material in the warehouses can, however, be brought into condition 
of much value as the work progresses. Indeed, several of the old 
bucket dredges, a large number of dump cars, and various other 
plant, including a most useful machine shop at Matachin, have 
already been repaired and put into service by Mr. John F. AVallace, 
the chief engineer of the Connnission. The present Commission has 
thus come into control of a great ship-canal work, a small portion 
only of which has been performed, and with the greater ])art of the 
data required for the ultimate solution of all its problems yet to be 
determined. These problems include, first of all, the answer to the 
main question, whether the canal shall be a sea-level canal or of the 
lock type. Whether one type or the other be adopted, they cover also 
such great features of the work as the interior harbor at the Colon 
or Cristobal entrance to the canal and possibly the exterior harbor 
lying outside of it; the control of the Chagres River in times of flood, 
involving the construction of probably a great dam at Bohio or at 
Gamboa and possibly a tunnel through the Cordillera to divert the 
waters of the Chagres River toward the Pacific Ocean; additional 
harbor facilities at the Ancon or Panama end of the canal ; the eleva- 



THE PRESENT ASPECTS OF THE PANAMA CANAL. 741 

tion of tho suniiiiit level if a canal with locks should bo built, and the 
number, location, an.d lift of those locks. Manifestly, the solution of 
some of those problems must depend upon the rate at which excava- 
tion can be made, either in rock or in earth, and its nnit cost. Fui-ther 
than this, in the event of building a lock canal, it is highly probable 
that a great dam will be re(piired across the Chagres near Hohio, 
whose Cimstrnction would involve nnprecedented methods upon a 
large scale in consequence of the great depth of bed rock at that 
place. 

Prej)aration for construction was begun by the Commission last 
May by organizing engineering field parties which sailed from New 
York during June and the early part of July. At the same time Mr. 
John F. ^^'aIlace, formerly general manager of the Illinois Central 
Railroad Company, past president of the American Society of Civil 
Engineers, was appointed chief engineer of the Isthmian Canal Com- 
mission, and he entered upon his duties the latter part of June. 
There were five of these parties, besides the engineering force organ- 
ized for the purpose of designing and constructing waterworks and 
sewer systems for the cities of Panama and Colon. 

Taldng these forces in the order of their location from Cristobal, 
the American port at the Caribbean end of the canal, the first is lo- 
cated at that point. This party is charged with the duty of making 
all the requisite surveys and investigations, including jet borings, 
both on land and water, needed for the development of the complete 
plans for the interior harbor at the mouth of the canal, for the deep- 
water channel leading to it from the harbor of Colon, and for any 
advisable realignment of that portion of the canal between Cristobal 
or Colon and (latun, about 6 miles inland. The second party was 
intrusted with the surveys and investigations required to determine 
the feasibility of building a dam across the Chagres Valley at Gatun 
and to ascertain whether it is desirable to confirm the location of the 
French companies between Gatun and Bohio or to adopt the Tiger 
Hill alternative between those points. The third party has under- 
taken to make exhaustive investigations, including sur\eys, neces- 
sary for the location of a dam across the Chagres near Bohio, also 
to make certain other surveys connected with some minor details of 
relocation in the same general vicinity. This party is making many 
jet borings on a number of profiles, so as to secure complete informa- 
tion regarding the deep bed rock under the river. In this manner 
the most favorable location for the Bohio dam, should it be con- 
structed, may be conclusively determined. The fourth party has 
been assigned to the responsible duty of making extensive surveys 
and other investigations from Gaiuboa, where the Chagres River and 
canal line intersect, about ))0 miles fi-om CV)lon, V2 miles or more up 
the Chagres Valley. This woi-k will cover the continental divide 



742 THE PRESENT ASPECTS OF THE PANAMA CANAL. 

at tlio summit of the Cordillera, the southerly limit of the Chagres 
watershed, and the divide constituting the northerly limit of the 
same shed : it Avill include also the numerous borings to bed rock at 
the Gamhoa dam site and at other points. It will disclose the infor- 
mation requisite for the determination of plans for elfectively con- 
trolling the flood flow of the Chagres River. The data already 
obtained show that it is entirely feasible to build a dam at Gamboa 
and to divert a portion or all of the waters of the Chagres to the 
Pacific through a tunnel not more than 7 miles long, or toward the 
Carribbean Sea through a tunnel piercing the other divide and about 
i miles long, the former probably being preferable. The surveys of 
the French companies failed to disclose any location for a tunnel less 
than 10 miles long through the Cordillera toward the Pacific. 

The New Panama Canal Company had a labor force of about 700 
men engaged in excavation at the great Culebra Cut when the canal 
proi:)erty was turned over to the present Commission in May last. 
The organization of this force and plant has been maintained and 
greatly increased in efficiency. The fifth field party was assigned to 
such engineering work in connection with this great excavation as 
will be recjuired for its ultimate execution and in making the final 
location in the vicinity of Culebra. This force has also been instru- 
mental in installing a system of field accounts, so that a complete 
daily record may be kept of progress and cost of all classes of work. 

All of these parties have conducted the operations assigned to them 
continuously and energetically. They have secured data of great 
value in the ultimate solution of the main problems of the project. 
They are still at work in their several fields, but these preliminary 
operations are drawing to a close, thus enabling the Commission 
prom])tly to study and formulate the final j^lans on which the work 
of construction on a large scale depends. 

The United States Government is required under the treaty made 
with the Republic of Panama not only to construct complete water 
works and sewer systems for the cities of Panama and Colon, but 
also to formulate and execute certain sanitary measures for those 
cities. In accordance with the terms of the agi'eement recently 
reached by Secretary Taft with the Panama Government at the city 
of Panama, complete control of this sanitary work has been vested in 
the United States Government represented by the Isthmian Canal 
Commission. 

The source of public water supply selected for the city of Panama 
is a reservoir in the upper Rio (irande Valley close to the great Cule- 
bra Cut and about 10 miles from the city. The dam for this reservoir 
was constructed in the days of the old Panama Company by M. 
Philippe Puneau-Varilla, chief engineer, and subsequently the first 
miiiister plenipotentiary from the Republic of Panama to the United 



THE PRESENT ASPECTS OF TTTE PANAMA CANAL. 743 

States. This is an iiiterostiiio; oxamj)le of a ciii-vcd conci-clc dam 
built in a few days' time and (•ontainin«>: little masoinv. yet it lias 
proved admirably adapted to its purpose. This daui will be raised 
and stren<>then(Ml so as lari>-ely to increase the capacity of the reser- 
voir. A l('»-inch cast-iron pipe will convey the water to a distributing 
reservoir at Aiicon, in the Canal Zone, at a suitable elevation on the 
northeastern slope of Ancon Hill innnediately adjacent to the city 
of Panama. The supply has been based uixm an estimated daily con- 
sumption of (U) o^allons j)er head of |)Opulation. The distribution 
system is complete in every particular and adapted to any extension 
required by the future growth of the city. The construction of this 
waterworks system has progressed so far as to render it practically 
certain that the city will receive the first public water in its history in 
February next. 

The planning and construction of the sewer system has also been 
pushed forward as rapidly as possible and it will be completed ready 
for use soon after the introduction of water. The sewer system is di- 
vided into three districts, each Iiaving an outfall into the sea water of 
Panama Bay, at a sufficient distance from the shore to provide abun- 
dant dilution. The system is designed to receive the sewage of the 
city and a rainfall of about 1 inch per hour, any excess over the 
latter being carried oif on the surface. When it is remembered that 
the city of Panama has never before had a sewer system it can readily 
be tippreciated Avhat a sanitary relief l)oth the sewer sj'^stem and the 
water supply will be to the city. 

The water-supply and sewer systems for the city of Colon have 
also received the careful jittention of the Commission. A suitable 
source of water, however, has not been so easy to find- as at Panama, 
and the sewer system can not be constructed until a considerable 
amount of filling with excavated material from the canal has been 
completed. Both works, however, will be undertaken and finished 
in the near future. As the p()])ulation of Colon is under (),()00, while 
that of Panama is nearly 20,000, the conditions bearing upon the 
sanitation of Colon are the more easily controlled i)ending comple- 
tion of its waterworks and sewers. 

It may be interesting to observe, although not in line with the 
actual construction of the canal, that the Connnission among its other 
duties is charged with that of the civil government of the Canal Zone, 
a territory 10 miles wide, running across the Isthmus with the axis 
of the canal as its center line, but excluding the cities of Panama and 
Colon as delimited under the treaty. Maj. Gen. George W. Davis, 
U. S. Army, retired, menilxH- of the Isthmian Canal Commission, is 
the governor of the Zone, and under his jurisdiction have been organ- 
ized by the Commission most effective hospital and sanitary forces, 
with Col. W. C. Gorgas, U. S. Army, as chief sanitary officer. The 



744 THE PRESENT ASPECTS OF THE PANAMA CANAL. 

great hospital on the slope of Ancon Hill, with its 700 beds, has been 
put in excellent working condition, while the sanitary forces of the 
Commission have already rendered highly efl'ective services toward 
bringing the entire Zone into sanitary condition, especially in the 
extermination of mosquitoes. Boards of health of high character 
and excellent quarantine organizations have been established both at 
Panama and Colon. Although four sporadic cases of yellow fever 
have occurred in Panama within the last six months, the infection 
has not spread from any case, in consequence of the vigilan-ce of the 
medical and sanitary forces. The general health of the Isthmus has 
been good and there seems to be a certain promise of excellent sani- 
tary conditions hereafter, such as to enable the forces of the Commis- 
sion to perform their work in safety from epidemics and with the 
highest degree of efficiency obtainable in the Tropics. 



SANITATION OF THE PANAMA CANAL ZONE. 



By Col. W. C. GoRGAS. IT. S. Army, 
Chief fiUiiitary Officer. 



From a sanitary point of view the location of the Panama Canal is 
very importiint. It is within the limits of the Republic of Panama. 
in the Tropics, and about 9° north of the Equator. For engineering 
reasons the lowest point in the mountain range, running north and 
south through the Western Hemisphere, has been selected, the range 
at this point being about 300 feet high. The Isthmus, in its general 
direction here, runs east and west; the canal, therefore, in a general 
direction is north and south. The local coast line at the point where 
the town of Panama is situated bellies somewhat toward the south, 
so that when you look to the cast you see nothing but the Pacific 
Ocean as far as the eye can reach. It struck me with surprise and 
took me some time to get used to the phenomena of every morning 
seeing the sun rise out of the Pacific and set behind the mountain on 
which I live. My preconceived ideas were just the opposite — that is, 
that the sun should rise out of the Atlantic and set in the Pacific. 
As a matter of fact, the town of Panama is some 20 miles east of a 
line drawn north and south from the town of Colon. 

The town of Panama was established early in the sixteenth cen- 
tury, and was probably selected because the ridge of the hemisphere 
was lowest at this point and because the Chagres River gave river 
transportation at this point about two-thirds the distance across the 
Isthmus. The Isthmus is narrower, considerably, at several other 
points than at Panama; but the ridge at these points is very much 
higher. The town rapidly grew in importance, and in the first hun- 
dred years after its settlement was probably the most imi)ortant town 
in Spanish America. Here Pizarro's expedition was fitted out, and 
here all the enormous gold and silver treasure from the South Ameri- 
can conquests came across the continent. In 1(571 the English bucca- 
neer, Henry Morgan, captured and sacked the city after he had out- 
maneuvered and defeated a larger and superior Spanish regular 
force on the broad savannas adjacent to the town. After this catas- 
trophe the present location of Panama was selected— a high penin- 

745 



746 SANITATION OF THE PANAMA CANAL ZONE. 

siila running south into the Pacific and easy of defense. It was so 
strongly fortified that no attempts thereafter were made to carry it 
by storm. It stands about G miles west of the site of the old town, 
of which abundant ruins are still visible. 

In former days a good paved highway ran straight north through 
the mountains toward the convenient port of Puerto Bello, but when 
the railroad Avas constructed the northern terminus was located at 
the present town of Colon. The line of the canal, so far as it is at 
present fixed, runs about 50 miles north and south, between the port 
of Colon on the north and Panama on the south. It follows in gen- 
eral, beginning from the northern end, the valley of the Chagres 
River and one of its branches — the Obispo — up to the top of the 
divide at Culebra, some 35 miles, and then down the valley of the Rio 
Grande to Panama, some 15 miles. Contrary to the general impres- 
sion that I had formed before coming down, the country is rolling 
and well drained, being essentially a mountainous district. The 
Chagres, of course, has marsh and lowlands in its valley, but no more 
than half the smaller rivers and larger creeks of the mountainous dis- 
tricts of Alabama or NeAv York. The country in general is very 
attractive, high and variegated as it is, with rolling hills and 
tropical verdure as far as the eye can reach. Insects and reptiles 
are scarce, and our friend, the mosquito, could not be called abun- 
dant. I believe any dweller of Staten Island or New Jersey, after a 
week's residence, would leave with the impression that there were 
none of the latter. 

For purposes of canal building the United States has purchased 
a tract of land extending along the whole length of the line of the 
canal 10 miles in width, of which the canal is in the center. The 
history of this Zone with regard to health has been exceedingly 
lugubrious, just as it has occurred everywhere else in the Tropics or 
Avherever a large, unacclimated ])opulation has been brought in, 
either for military or industrial purposes. The railroad was built in 
the early fifties, and its cost was greatly increased and the work itself 
several times stopped on account of the heavy mortality among the 
unacclimated laborers brought here. Later, between the years 1880 
and 1S89. the same thing occurred on a much larger scale in the 
French attempt to dig a canal under De Lesseps. The diseases 
causing the most mortality at these times were yellow fever and 
malaria. 

At the present time on the Zone there are 40,000 inhabitants, 
Panama containing 20,000, Colon 10,000, and the towns along the 
canal between Panama and Colon 10,000. The prevailing disease is 
malaria. Leprosy also exists. In Panama we have at present some 
yellow fever and a great deal of beriberi, and, of course, all other 



SANITATION OF THE PANAMA CANAL ZONE. 747 

tropical diseases (o a liinited extent. F/iijhtecn iiioiitlis from the 
present time, I am informed by the ehief enjjfineer, we will prol)ai)ly 
have on the Isthnnis a force of some ir».()()() men. Estimatin<:: from 
our pi'csent ratio, I am inclined to think that not more than 'J.OOO of 
these will he Caucasians and the other I^J.OOO ne<2:r<)es. Now, the 
sanitary i)r()l)lem will he to protect these ir).()()() men from malai'ia 
and from yellow fever. I will take uj) first yellow fever. I assume 
it as accepted that it is conveyed from man to man only hy the 
female Steyom.yia^ who has previously bitten some human bein<^ 
suffering from yellow fever. Therefore, given a place in which there 
are no infected Sfe(/oiii>ji(i, yellow fever can not originate until a 
human being sulfering from yellow^ fever has been introduced and 
infected the local Stegomyia^ or unless the female Stegomyia^ infected 
at some distant point where yellow fever prevails, has been intro- 
duced. Practically the first is almost the only method of infecting a 
locality — ^namely, the introduction of a human being suffering from 
yellow fever. The city of Panama has been in the condition for a 
great many years of at all times having within her borders some 
infected Stegoinyla at all seasons of the year, and the nonimnnine 
foreigner coming: within her limits is liable to contract the disease. 
Yellow fever is at present endemic nowhere on the Zone except in 
the city of Panama. The object of the sanitarian is, therefore, to 
get rid of the infected Sfegoniyin at present existing in the city, and 
this can be done in this way: Establish a system wherein' the health 
authorities will pretty certainly be informed of every case of yellow 
fever occurring; then take the house in Avhich this case occurs and 
fumigate it, so as to destroy all the mosquitoes within its borders. 
Do the same with all the contiguous houses. 

This, it has been found by experience, kills all the infected mos- 
quitoes at that particular focus. The same thing is done at every 
other focus as yellow fever occurs. Gradually, in this way, all the 
foci in the connnunity are destroyed; and when you have destroyed 
your last focus yellow fever is at an end. Or, if you want to be 
more expeditious and the town is not too large, you can systematic- 
ally fumigate every house in the town, and thus pretty certainly 
destroy all infected mosquitoes and do away with yellow fever nuich 
more rapidly. But no system of reporting is ever absolutely certain 
and the sanatarian should see that other very important adjuncts 
to the fumigation work are carried on at the same time. The 
Stegomyia is a house moscpiito and cleanly in her habits, seeks prin- 
cipally clean rain-water barrels and water containers, and lives very 
close to her birthplace, not traveling far. Therefore, as an addi- 
tional sanitary safeguard, every receptacle for water should be so 
screened and covered that mos(iuitoes can not have access. All 



748 SANITATION OF THE PANAMA CANAL ZONE. 

yards should bo thoroughly cleaned, so that there will be no old 
bottles or cans left around. The water supply should be piped in, 
so that the people w\\\ not desire to have water in containers. Sewers 
should be put in, so that there will be no excuse for people to throw 
slop water in the yards. All standing puddles should be drained and 
kept dry. Streets should be paved and kept well swept, and the 
garbage carefully collected, with a view to decreasing to the mini- 
mum all trash capable of retaining fresh water in any way. When 
Panama has been in this state for a month or two we wnll be in the 
same condition that Habana is, as the result of just such operations 
as I have described above. When Panama has thus been freed from 
yellow fever we will not have any more until a man sick from yellow 
fever is introduced from some infected point without. This we will 
prevent by a proper system of quarantine, just as Habana has done 
for the past three years. 

Thus I can see the entire possibility of protecting our laborers on 
the canal during the whole time of its construction from one of the 
two greatest causes of former mortality. 

But I think that probably a more important problem for the 
health of our laborers, and certainly a much more difficult one to 
deal with, is that of malaria along the line of the canal. The 
10,000 natives living along the canal are distributed in about 20 small 
villages. These people are very generall}^ infected with malaria, A 
recent microscopical examination of the blood of people, taken at 
random at various points along the line, in several hundred cases 
showed parasites in the blood of 50 per cent of these people on the 
first examination. This means pretty certainly that about 80 per 
cent of the natives at the present time have the malarial parasite in 
their blood. Four times out of five, Avhen a female Anopheles bites 
one of the natives she becomes infected, and when she, in turn, bites 
one of our nearby laborers he becomes infected. It is thus evident 
that our force will rapidly be used up, just as was the French, unless 
our sanitary measures prevent it. 

Now, we can approach this problem from two sides; either on the 
side of doing away with the infected human being so that he can 
not infect the mosquito, or doing away with the mosquito so that she 
can not transmit the parasite from the diseased to the well. If we 
could kill these 10,000 natives and keep our laborers aw^ay for four 
or five months until all previousl}^ infected mosquitoes had died, the 
problem would be settled; but our superiors would very properly 
not sanction this very drastic measure, even if proposed by us. But if 
we have some substance which could 1)0 introduced into the circula- 
tion of the infected man, and kill the parasite and at the same time 
not be injurious to man, we would accomplish the same object just 



SANITATION OF THE PANAMA CANAL ZONE. 749 

as effectively as if we killed the man. and the nioasure would not 
meet with siicli general opposition as the former projiosition wouhl. 
In quinine we have discovered this poison. This vegetable sub- 
stance is harmless to man and fatal to the malarial parasite. The 
greater number of practical tropical sanitarians, the Germans and the 
Italians conspicuously, advocate and have been successful on these 
lines — have gotten as large a proportion of the population as possible 
to take small quantities of quinine with as nnich regularity as they 
could; and thus have been successful, without adopting any other 
measures, in doing away with malaria in the several localities. Or, 
we can attack it from the side of the mosquito; do just what we 
intend doing in Panama Avith regard to the Stegomyia: Cover all 
water containers, clear up the yards, fix the roads so there will be no 
puddles, have a regular system in all th^ towns of collecting gar- 
bage and waste so there will be no cans around; and ditching every- 
where there are small breeding places in the neighborhood of dwell- 
ings, and oil where ditching is not practicable. This latter method 
of killing the mosquito is the method most in favor by P^nglish and 
American tropical sanitarians. This tilone has been successful in 
eradicating malaria in many localities. 

Along the route of the Panama Canal the malaria problem, I think, 
is more difficult to deal with and more serious than any place where 
it has previously been tried. We therefore expect to adopt both 
methods, and I am convinced that in this way we will be able to 
protect our laborers from the serious mortality that has undone our 
predecessors in this important work. 

The other diseases to which we are subject, I think, will not give 
us serious trouble, but will be controlled by the ordinary measures 
usually adopted by a health department. 

Ancon, Isthmian Canal Zone, 

February 10, 1905. 




-1 a O I 

R H -J , IS - 
•►^ O s O Is 1 



THE PEOJECTED NEAV BARGE CANAL OF THE STATE 

OF NEW ^OKK." 



By Col. Thomas W. Symons, U. S. Army. 



In the years followinjjthe Revolutionary war the subject of naviga- 
ble canals was a very absorbing one to our forefathers. In this new 
and rapidly developing country in those pre-railroad days the impor- 
tance of canals in the transportation world can hardly be a])|)reciated 
at the i^resent time. Canals were projected all over the country, 
and many were built. The attention and labors of the ablest men of 
the period were devoted to canal schemes, their financing, locating, 
and building. 

A good many of the canals that were built have succumbed to new 
conditions and been discontinued, being unable to stand the competi- 
tion of railroads. Some, however, have stood the test of time and 
have remained important factors in the connnercial world to the 
jn-esent day. AVithout question the most important of these early 
artificial waterways was the Erie Canal through the State of New 
York, connecting the Hudson River with Lake Erie. This canal, 
although originally built of small size, played a very important part 
in the settlement of the great West, oi- what was then the givat West, 
by furnishing a route in connection with the Oreat Lakes by which 
the products of the new western countiy could reach th«^ markets 
along the seaboard, and by which in turn it could get its supplies of 
clothing, tools, groceries, etc., at an economical rate for transporta- 
tion. It is certain that the settlement and develoi)ment of the New 
York and New England hinterland were enoruu)usly expedited by 
the Erie Canal. 

Locally in New York State the effect of this canal was shown by 
the increasing commercial imi)()rtance of New York City and the 
establishment and development along the line of the canal of the 
most important chain of cities in the country — Albany, Troy, Cohoes, 
Schenectady, Little Falls, Utica, Rome, Syracuse, Rochester, Lock- 
port, and Buffalo. 

a Reprinted, by permission, from the Bulletin of the American Geograpt-car 

Society, May, 1904. 

751 



752 PROJECTED NEW BARGE CANAL OF STATE OF NEW YORK. 

Some of the early New York canals have been almndoned. Those 
which are left and kept in a navigable condition are : the Erie Canal, 
connecting the upper chain of Great Lakes above Niagara Falls with 
the Hudson River, and thence Avith the seaboard; the Oswego Canal, 
which connects Lake Ontario with the Erie Canal, and the Chanl- 
plain Canal, which connects Lake Chanijjlain with the navigable 
water of the Hudson. The Erie Canal, which is the principal mem- 
ber of this canal trinity, is 350 miles long, and at present has 72 
locks. It Avas originally built with a depth of 4 feet, with locks 90 
by 15 feet, being of a size to accommodate boats of but SO tons capac- 
ity, and was completed in 1825. Tolls on the canal were high at first, 
but were gradually reduced, and for many years have been abolished 
altogether. 

It is a noteworthy fact that before they were finally abolished the 
tolls had more than paid for the canals of the State and their enlarge- 
ment. 

The small 80-ton canal was soon found inadequate, and it was 
enlarged to its present capacity— that is, for boats carrying 240 tons 
of freight. This work of enlargement was started in 1835, but was 
not completed until 1862. 

Wlien the canal was built, and when it was enlarged, the only 
known or successfully developed method of canal-boat j^ropulsion 
was by animal towing, and a tow path was provided all along the 
canals. The necessity for this tow path was one of the principal 
factors which caused the canal to be kept out of water courses and 
built in the upper portions of the valleys. The development of steam 
canal-boat propulsion has changed the problem, and the great canal 
that New York is to build will now be located, wherever possible, 
in streams and lakes, and it will have no towpath. This will reduce 
the cost of maintenance enormously, for the cost of keeping the 
towpath in order is the heaviest item of expense of the present, canal. 

The New York canals were no sooner enlarged to their present size 
than agitation for their further improvement commenced. This 
culminated, about ten years ago, in the adoption of a project for deep- 
ening the canals so that they would accommodate boats of 8 feet draft 
instead of 6 feet, and for lengthening the locks so that they Avould 
take two boats of the same length and width as at present, coupled 
tandem, at one lockage. The State made an appropriation of $9,000,- 
000 to carry this project into effect. It was soon found, however, that 
the amount named was grossly inadequate, and that to complete the 
project would cost Iavo to three times the sum which had been voted. 
The work was also badly managed, and the people of the State were 
indignant at the deception which had been practiced on them regard- 
ing the estimates and the scandals attending the work, and the project 
was abandoned. Then came another period of agitation, investiga- 



PHO.TKCTKI) NEW I?.\H(;K CANAL OK S'l'A'I'K OK NKW VoUK. 758 

tion, and discussion. All soi'ls oi" (liiiiijs were |)|-()|)(is(m|. Many 
])r()iniii(Mit people wanted a shi[) canal connecting the (Jreat Lakes 
with the sea, and several routes were sui-veved, and estimates of cost 
of various sized canals made. Many wanted the Sl).()()(),()(){) project 
completed, either MS oi-iiiinally proposed or with ino.idical ions. Some 
wanted to turn the State canals over to the (lenei-al (iovcrnmcnl. and 
depend on it tor maintenance and improvement. Some wanted to 
abandon the canals altogethei-, and som<' to utilize the canal i-ii>ht of 
way for State railroads. 

Ill 185)7 the writer of this pa[)er. in a report to the (leneral (lovern- 
ment, proposed, as the best solution of the ])r()blem, that the canals 
should be enlarj^ed to enable them to be used by barges carrying 1,000 
to 1,500 tons. Governor (now President) Hoosevelt ap])ointe(l a 
board of prominent New ^'oi'k business men soon after this to advise 
the State what to do with its canals, and this board, after more than 
a year of investigation, and the careful consideration of everything 
that could be propo.sed, re})orte(l in favor of enlarging the Erie Canal 
to a capacity for barges of 1,000 tons, and a lesser improvement for 
the Oswego and Champlain canals. The legislature caused sui-veys, 
plans, and estimates for the work to l)e made. All the canal people 
of the State linally came in under the i)anner of the 1,000-ton barge 
canal, and through theii- united eii'oi-ts the legislature at last passed 
a bill for the eidargement of the Ei'ie, Oswego, and Champlain 
canals, to enable them to be used bv l.OOO-ton barges, with all the 
locks of sufficient size to take two boats, coupled tandem, at one 
lockage. 

The estimated cost of the woi-k projiosed was $I01.00().()()0. At the 
fall election of 1002 this proposition was submitted to the peoi)le of 
the State, who approved it by a majority of about 'ino.OOO votes. 

New York is thus connnitted to and has entered upon this tre- 
mendous woi-k of canal imi)rovement — by fai- tlie greatest work ever 
undertaken by any State. 

This projected work is in the very front rank of canal i)ropositions. 
It is overshadowed in the i)ul)lic mind by the Panama Canal, on 
account of the international character and the inteivsting complica- 
tions that have attended the inauguration of that work by the United 
States. In connnercial imi)ortance the Erie is in many ways the 
equal of the Panama Canal. On the Panama it is hoped to some 
time reach a tonnage of 10,000,000; on the Erie all works, structures, 
water supply, etc., are i)redicated on a tonnage of 10.000.000. and pro- 
visions are made for accommodating, at slight additional expense, a 
tonnage greatly in excess of this. On the upper Great Lakes there 
is a w'ate'r-borne connnerce of very nearly 1)0.000,000 tons i)er year. 
The Erie Canal will furnish the cheapest route for connecting this 
SM 1904 i8 



754 PROJECTED NEW BARGE CANAL OF STATE OF NEW YORK. 

vast lako coiumerce with the seaboard, aiul its wide-reaching influ- 
ence ran hardly be conceived or appreciated except by those who 
have given years of study to the i:)robleni. 

In magnitude the work that New York has undertaken exceeds the 
work at Panama. More earth and rock must be excavated, more 
masonry used, and more dams buih. The cost per unit is not nearly 
so high as at Panama, because the work will be done in the Temioerate 
Zone, where labor, tools, and materials are abundant and reasonably 
clieaji. 

In the complexity of the engineering questions involved the Erie 
is hardly second to the Panama Canal, for while the canalization of 
the Mohawk River is a very diiferent problem from the control and 
utilization of the Chagres River they are both engineering ])rojects 
of the very first magnitude. 

The building of the Panama Canal under conditions akin to the 
proposed enlargement of the Erie l^arge Canal would be a simpler, 
cheaper, and easier work than that which New Yerk has undertaken. 

The barge canals that New York is to build will follow the same 
general route, fulfill the same functions, and minister to the same 
wants as the present navigable canals connecting Lakes Erie, Ontario, 
and Champlain Avith the navigable waters of the Hudson below Troy. 

In three important respects they will differ from the existing 
canals: First, as to size and capacity; second, as to location, and 
third, as to the character of navigation provided for. 

The locks of the new canals, Avhich govern the dimensions of the 
boats that can be used, are '28 feet wide, 310 feet long, and 11 feet 
deep. The canal prism has a depth of 12 feet and a general mininnmi 
width on the bottom of 75 feet in canal sections and 200 feet in rivers, 
pools, and lakes. Boats can be built which will i)ass through the 
canal carrying 1,000 tons of freight, but it will prol)ably be found 
advantageous to sacrifice some of the carrying capacity to secure bet- 
ter models and greater clearance. The lift of the locks will be much 
greater than at present, and the number of locks will be greatly 
reduced. On the present Erie Canal there are 72 locks; on the new 
Erie Barge Canal there will be but 88 locks. 

The new locks will take two canal boats, each of 150 feet length, 
coupled tandem, at one lockage, and this makes the lock capacity 
2,000 tons, or about eight times that of the present canal. As freight 
boats nearly always travel in pairs coupled tandem, the advantage of 
the double-length locks in doing away with the necessity of uncoup- 
ling and recoupling at every lock is very great, saving much time and 
lessening dangers. 

A very decided change is made in the location of the canals. The 
Erie Canal is about 350 miles long, and the ncAv canal follows the old 
canal for only about 100 miles; the other 250 miles is almost entirely 



PROJECTKO NEW BARCK ("AXAL OK STATI', OF XKW YORK. / OT) 

In' a lU'w I'oiilc. Laryc porlions ol' (he ( 'liauiplaiii and ( )sAV('^r(> canals 
also follow now locations. 

Tho oxistinu: canals may he called "•hillside" canals, ms they go 
through the ojien country and aloni;,' the upper portions of the valleys 
above the rivers, from which they religiously kee|) away to tho groat- 
ost extent, possible. The new and gi"(>ater canal is put in tho valley 
bottoms and in the water courses and lakes wherever practicable. 

The princij)al advantages of tho valley -bottom location in tho case 
of the greater canal are cheai)noss of construction, greater freedom 
and ease of movement by boats in the wider waters of the water 
courses and lakes, greater rajiidity and less cost of transportation, 
greater innnunity from accidents that disable the canal, and loss cost 
of maintenance. With the small canal as originally built and as snb- 
sequently enlarged to its ])resent size it would not have been econom- 
ical, with the knoA^'ledge and moans then possessed, to have built the 
dams and locks required to canalize the Mohawk and other rivers and 
to excavate the largo channels required for flood discharge. With 
the large barge canals now ])roj)osed this canalization is not only 
desirable, but is cheaper than it would bo to utilize the existing lines 
of the canals. 

The existing canal is a " tow-path " canal, built with the distinct 
idea that all business on it should be done by animal towing. In the 
now and larger canal no tow path is provided, and it is expected that 
navigation through it will be by means of steamboats properly 
adapted to it and towing other motorless cargo boats, in accordance 
with tho custom which has boon developed and is now in vogue on the 
Erie Canal to a certain extent. It is this change in tho method of 
navigation which permits the valley bottom, lake, and water-course 
location to be adopted. 

Long years before the construction of the Erie Canal tho early 
pioneers had found a water highway extending nearly acreoss the 
State of New York, and it was largely used by those who settled 
the Avestern portion of the State. It was not perfect, involving, as 
it did, many portages about falls and rapids and from one river to 
another, and tho stemming of swift river currents, with bars and 
shoals, but it fulfilled a most useful function. 

The Erie Canal when built did not follow this pioneer route for 
reasons stated: but it is a remarkable circumstance that now, after 
nearly a century of disuse, this old pioneer route is to be again 
adopted and the new and larger barge canal is to follow it without 
material deviation. This old pioneer route followed up the Mohawk 
River, with portages about tho falls and bad rapids, to the vicinity of 
Rome: thence a portage was made across to the waters of AVood 
Creek; thence it followed down the waters of this small stream to 
Oneida Lake. On across the lake it went and down the Oneida River 



75() IMiO.IKCTKD NEW BARGE CANAL OF STATE OE NEW YORK. 

to the jiiiu'tion of the Oneidn, OsAvoijo, and Senocii rivors, at Three 
Eivor l\)iiit — a famous locality in the olden days. Here two i-outes 
were oj^en to the eiilerprisiiiii- traveler. If he Avere going to the set- 
tled western part of the State he would follow up the Seneca Kiver 
ami thence into the various branches and into the beautiful '' finger" 
lakes tributary to the Seneca. At that time and by that route the 
cost of transportation between Albany and Seneca I^ake was from $75 
to $100 j)er ton, and it took four weeks to make the round trip. If he 
were going fai-ther west, or into Canada, or had much freight to 
transport, he would ofttimes go on down the Oswego River to Lake 
Oritario and thence by lake to his destination. 

The projcH'ted loute of the Erie l^arge Canal follows up the Hud- 
son Kiver to Waterford; thence, l)y means of the requisite locks, it 
reaches the Mohawk River above Cohoes Falls. From Cohoes P^alls 
to just Avest of Rome the river is canalized — that is, dams are built, 
forming great pools, and these pools are connected by channels not 
less than 200 feet in width and 12 feet in depth. Above Rome 
there is a summit level leading over to Wood Creek, and, as in the 
olden days, the canal route follows down this stream and through 
Oneida Lake and Oneida River to Three River Point, thence up the 
Seneca River properly canalized to the vicinity of Clyde. From 
Clyde westward there are no water coiu'ses of importance running 
in the right direction, and the ncAV canal will follow generally the 
route of the existing canal to the Niagara River at Tonawanda : 
thence the Niagara River will be used up to Lake P^rie and Butl'alo. 
Between Clyde and TonaAvanda there is one important modification 
of the route, and this is at Rochester. The present canal goes through 
the city in a vcit awkAvard manner, crossing the (lenesc'e River in a 
niasf)nry a(|U('(hict, and the route is impracticable for the large canal. 
Here a new route is adopted, passing to the south of the city and 
crossing ilie (lenesee Rivei- in a pool formed by dannning the river. 

The Oswego Barge Canal leaves the Fi'ie Canal at Three River 
l*oint and kee])s on down in canalized OsAvego River to Lake 
Ontario. 

The ncAV Chani|)lain Canal keeps in the Hudson River from Water- 
ford to Foi-t Edward, instead of following along on the bank of the 
I'iver as at present. In doing this advantage is taken of the connner- 
cial poAver dams which already exist in the river, and Avhich, in con- 
nection Avith locks to pass them and the deepening of the river be- 
tAveen the pools, Avill fully canalize the riA^er. From Fort Edward 
to AATiitehall, at the foot of Lake Champlain, the ucav canal folloAvs 
the location of the existing one. 

The most important question connected with any canal pr()i)osi- 
tion is that of Avater supply, and the Erie Canal is no exception. 
The Avestern end of the canal will be fed from Lake Erie, as at 



PROJECTED NKW MAH(iK CANAI. OK STATK OK NF.W VoliK. 757 

pivsciit, the o.\istin<i- ciiiiiil IVoin Lake Eric (<> 'ronawiiiula hciii^r 
ivtaiiuMl as a water feeder only. This, willi iialiiral local sii|)|)lics 
from streams aloiio- [\w line, will oive all the watci- i-e(|iiire(l until 
the Seneca River is reached, which has an ai)undance of watei-. The 
only locality ^vhere the \vater-su|)i)ly prohlem attains (rreat im|)or- 
tance is at the summit level, between the Mohawk Kivei- and Oneida 
Lake. This is provided for, in the lar^^er canal. \)y ulili/,iii<,r the 
existin*; sources of supply and develojjino- additional ones hy water 
storage in West Canada Creek, the Mohawk River, and Oriskany 
Creole. 

If in the future moiv water is needed, due to increased use of the 
canal, or for any other reason, this can be supplied by additional 
storage in the Adirondacks at a conii)aratively small expense. 

It is believed that these new and eidarged canals will be of benefit 
to New York in enabling her to retain and increase her connnercial 
supremacy, largely through their controlling influence on freight 
rates and the prevention of differential discrimination against the 
port of New York, which is now and has for years been the rule. 

They will also benefit the entire region of the (Ireat Lakes, and this 
benefit will extend far into the interior of the great Northwest and 
influence transportation rates throughout the country. 

Upon the (jreat Lakes numy n)illi(ms of tons of freight are trans- 
ported every year at exceedingly low rates — far lower than are pos- 
sible by any other than w^ater transportation. The canals that New 
York has undertaken to build will practically extend this cheap sys- 
tem of Avater trans}K)rtation to the seaport of New York and other 
ports in the vicinity, and bind the East and West closer together. 



RAPID-TRAXSIT SUBWAYS TN MF/IKOPDTJTAN OF rrp:S.'' 



By MiLO R. Maltbie. 



The problem of urban transj)()rtation is largely one of rapid com- 
munication between business and residential districts, and has grown 
increasingly difficult as population has become more and more con- 
centrated. Street-car companies have tried every conceivable kind of 
motive power, but they have not been able to keep up with the rapid 
growth. Steam railroads, which have proved so successful as inter- 
urban means of communication, have been excluded from most centers 
because of the noise, smoke, and ugliness of the trains. Horse traction 
is not sufficiently rapid, and the cable for the same reason has given 
way to electricity. 

However satisfactor}' surface lines may be for short-distance traffic, 
their inadequacy to deal Avith suburban traffic became apparent almost 
half a century ago in the larger urban centers. The steam roads 
undertook to solve this question by lowering fares and b}'^ greatly 
increasing the number of trains. London went a step further and 
built underground roads connecting most of the depots in the metrop- 
olis. Other cities, such as New York, Chicago, Boston. Liverpool, 
and Berlin, have constructed elevated roads, but these are unsightly, 
nnd within the last few years they also have proved or are proving 
inadequate to deal with the vast throngs who daily leave their homes 
to seek work in other portions of the cities in which they live. And 
now, as the last resort, electric subways are proposed, and systems 
have been or are being built in Paris, Budapest, Glasgow, London, 
Boston, and New York,'' while other cities are considering the (Ques- 
tion. 



a Reprinted, by permission, from Municipal Affairs, New Yorlc, Vol. IV, No. .3, 
September, 1900, whole No. 15, pp. 4.58-480. 

6 Short sections of Berlin's elevated road are under^ronnd, hut it has not 
been included in this article because so small a portion will be below the street 
level. 

759 



760 



KAPID-TRANSIT SUBWAYS IN METROPOLITAN CITIES, 



RAPID TRANSIT IN LONDON. 

Owing to the enormous cost of constrnetino: undergrounfl roads, a 
large daily traffic is essential to successful operation. This condition 
appeared first in London. Allien railroads were invented and their 
utility generall}' recognized, London was already a city of consider- 
able size (population in 1851, 2.3()3.2T4). Its ancient streets Avere 
considered too sacred to he polluted by a noisy monster, and the im- 
portance of rai)id communication between the central portion of the 
city and suburban areas was not yet recognized. Thus tlie first steam 
railroads were halted at the threshold of the inner city and made to" 
build their terminal stations some distance from the center of com- 
mercial activity. With the groAvth of the city and the giving over of 
certain })ortions almost exclusively to business, some means of coin- 




FlG. 1.— The Central Londou tuuuel. 



munication between the various depots became necessary. Steam 
surface roads were out of the question ; electricity and cable traction 
had not been invented, and horse cars were too slow. Underground 
steam roads seemed the only alternative. 

For years the construction of these lines went on, until at. pres- 
ent there are 300 miles and upward of 270 stations within a 6-mile 
radius of Charing Cross. These railways ])r()bably carry over 300,- 
000,000 passengers annually, and, including the omnibus, tramway, 
cab. and steamer ])assengers, the total a))proaches very nearly to 
1,000,000,000 persons annually. 

The unpleasant f<'atui'es of travel in the " underground " — the 
dingy entrances, (he daik tunnels, the dirty, crowded, and dindy 
lighted cars, the sulphuj'ous fumes from the engines, the dirt-laden 
air — were appi'cciated from the start and grew woi-se as the traffic 
increased. The lines were mostly near the surface, and ()})enings 
Averc j)rovided at short intervals to pci'mit the smoke, steam, and 



RAPTD-TRANSIT SUmVAVS IN M I'VI'lJoroi J'l'A N CI'IMKS. 7(')1 

i^as (o ('sca|)(". I)ul (hey xccy iii:i(l('(|iiat('ly |)ci-('()nii(Ml thai fiiiicl ion. 
'J'lic inaiiaiiiTs, wilh (he charactci-ist ic lOii^lish slowness to adopt 
new melhotls and the desire to iiiaUe lar^'-e jji-olits, reiiiindiii<^ one 
of the New \'()rk Manliattan FJevated IJaili-oad Company, refused 
to adopt electric ti-action, and until JS'.X) there was no method of 
rapid transpoi-tation in T^ondon other than the steam roads. 

In that year the City and South London Klectric Kailway was 
opened, about lU miles in extent, extendine- from neai" the moiuunent, 
in Kiny- A\'illiani street, only a few blocks fi-om the commercial cen- 
ter of tlu> metropolis, to the suburban district of Stockwell, upon 
the south side of the Thames. The success of this road and the 
desire for access to the heart of the city led the Southwestern Kail- 
way — one of the nu)st important En<;lish roads — to construct a 
short electric line between its Waterloo station and the Mansion 
House, o])posite the liank of Eno;land. This line is very short, only 
1^ miles in ]en<>'th. but it does assist in solving the problem of urban 
transportation in that it brino;s the suburban districts reached by 
the Southwestern into closer communication with the business ])or- 
tion of the city. 

The Central London Railroad, the latest, largest, and best equipped 
of all London subways, most nearly resembles, from the point of 
location, the New York subway. It runs from the Bank of Eng- 
land, under Cheapside, Newgate, Holborn Viaduct, and Oxford 
street, ])ast St. Paul's Cathedral, Hyde Park, and Kensington (Jar- 
dens to a station in the suburban district of Shepherd's Bush, a total 
distance of (U miles. There is a large traffic toward the Bank of 
England in the morning and to the West End in the evening, and 
the only means of transportation until lately was by onniibus or 
carriage or a roundabout route via the underground. No tram- 
way has been permitted to occupy this main artery, and the new 
underground road will greatly add to the transportation facilities 
of London. 

Various other electric undergi'ound lines have been j)roposed, and 
w^ithin the near future the Metro])olitan and the Metropolitan Dis- 
trict railways, now operated by steam, will adopt electricity as a 
motive power. Bids and plans have already been called for. 

CONDITIONS IN lU DAI'KST. 

After London, Budajjcst was the first city to build a subway. 
Here it was the outcome of various plans for joining the central and 
business portion of the city with the park, a favorite rendezvous some 
'2h miles distant. Nothing definite was proposed until the spacious 
and handsome Andrassystrasse was laid out, which offered a direct 
and attractive route for a street railway. Application was made for 
.permission to build a horse-car line, but the plan met with strong 



762 RAPID-TRANSIT SUBWAYS IN METROPOLITAN CITIES. 

o])position chiefly upon aesthetic grounds. Several years later, after 
a short experimental electric line had proved a success, the scheme 
was again resurrected, electricity being the motive power. This 
proposal met a fate similar to its predecessors and led to the con- 
struction of the subway. In 1804 the concession was granted, and two 
years later the line was opened to the public. No other project is at 
present being considered ; the transportation problem is not so serious 
as elsewhere, and the tramway system is very efficient, giving satis- 
factory service. 

THE GLASGOW SUBWAY. 

The GlasgOAv subway was started several years before that in 
Budapest, but being much larger in scope and more difficult to con- 
struct, owing to the great amount of tunneling necessary, it was not 
opened until the latter part of 1896. Even then it did not remain 
open, for the traffic was so much heavier than anticipated that it was 
necessary to close the line for a few weeks and improve the facilities 
for handling crowds. 

The first definite project for an underground road culminated in 
J 887, when a l)ill was introduced into Parliament to authorize such 
an undertaking. The local authorities opposed it, because they 
feared that tunnels under the Clyde would render any further deep- 
ening of the river impossible and thus seriously interfere with the 
commercial development of the city. However, in 1890, a bill was 
passed; these objections did not seem of sufficient importance to 
counterbalance the need for rapid transit. Short sections of the 
steam roads, similar to those in London, had been operated for some 
time below the surface, but they reached only a few suburban dis- 
tricts. The new subway connects the business portions of the city 
with the residential areas to the west and northwest. Its eastern 
extremity is in the heart of the city, from whence the line makes a 
broad swing to the west, some 7 miles in circumference. 

As yet there seems to be no competition between the subway and 
the nninicipal street railways. .The latter do not reach many of the 
suburbs served by the subway, and the long-distance traffic does not 
use the surface lines because they are slower. Even with the pro- 
posed extensions, there will be abundant traffic for each system. 

boston's subways. 

The Boston subway was opened in 1898. It is entirely unlike 
every other line, not being a separate and distinct system, but merely 
affording to the surface lines a means of reaching the business dis- 
tricts without using the surface of the streets. Prior to its con- 
struction the street car lines from the many suburban districts 
around Boston all met on Huntington avenue, Tremont and Boylston 
streets, or at Scollay square. Between Scollay square and the junc- 



KAPin-TRANSTI" SriUVAVS IN MF,TK< )POM'l'A X (MTIKS. 



7<)8 



tion of 'ri-('ni()ii( and lioylsloii streets (lie coii'^i'st ion was so <;ri'at 
(hat traflic was almost wholly impeded during (he l)usies( hoiii's of 
the day. Various solutions of the problem were })roposed fi'om time 
(() time. An elevated road was rejected hy a popular vo(e, and (ho 
pr()i)osod wideniii<>" of the streets involved so ^reat an expense as to 
he imi)raetical)le. The only comprehensive scheme seemed to he a 
subway in the congested district, and in isilj an actAvas passed author- 
izing its construction. The results have been most satisfactory. The 
streets are not nearly so crowded as before, and there is a great saving 
to (he passengers of the time necessary to reach the central portion of 
(he city from almost any suburb. The total length of the subway is 1§ 
miles, and contains over .') miles of track. Several additional lines 
are undei* considei'adon. 



THE tX)MPUi:iIKNSIVK SCIIKME FOR PARIS. 

The problem of rai)id (ransi( was hrs( agitated in l*aris almost 
half a century ago, and as early as 1870 the municii)al authorides 
))egan seriously to study various solutions. In imi(a(ion of odier 
























Flc. 2.— M-ip cf P.ii I-, 'T'li \\ ui„' siU)\\ i> s 111 op 1 iti n hikI uikU i ( m\-^\.\ uct on 



cities an elevated road was proposed during (he eigluies, but the 
esthetic Parisian would have none of i(. The beautiful boulevards, 
streets, and public places, laid out by Baron Haussnuui at great 



704 RAPID-TRANSIT SUBWAYS IN METROPOLITAN CITIES, 

expense, must be i^reserved at every cost. And true to French 
custom no ])]an Avould be approved until a comprehensive scheme 
for the whole city was fornudated. This had been accomplished 
by 189G, an electric subway having been decided upon. The street 
traific had become so congested that no more surface lines or omnibus 
routes could be added. 

The extent of the Paris metropolitan subway is indicated by the 
above map. AVhen it is entirely com])leted the system will be nearly 
40^ miles in length, will cost the city $-')().()00,000, and the operating 
company about $10,000,000 more for equipment." At present, only 
one section and parts of two others have been completely constructed 
and i)ut in operation, namely, the line running from the Vincennes 
gate in the east, past the Hotel de Ville, the Louvre, and the Tuil- 
leries, down the Champs Elj'^sees to the Place de I'Etoile, from which 
three lines operate — one to the Trocadero,.one to Porte Dauphine. 
and one to Porte Maillot. The total length is some 8 miles, and the 
cost al)out $7,000,000 for construction alone. 

PUBLIC CONTROL IN GREAT BRITAIN. 

The relation of the municipality to the subways varies greatly from 
city to city. In no instance have the city authorities undertaken 
operation, but in Paris and Boston, as in New York, the public owns 
the subway, having constructed it at public expense. 

The extent of public control is least in (ireat Britain, there being 
a marked difVereuce between street railways — surface lines — and 
underground roads. The former are subject to strict control, and 
the nnmicipality may take over a line twenty-one years from the 
time when the franchise is granted, or may construct or purchase 
the tracks and rent them to a private company. But no underground 
road is municipally owned or operated, and no public authority has 
the right under the act granting the franchise to purchase a line. Of 
course the local authorities nuiy regulate to a moderate degree, but 
beyond a somewhat restricted exercise of the police powers they may 
not go. The most important provision found in any of the acts, ex- 
cept clauses protecting avowedl}^ private interests, such as are to be 
found in acts ci'eating steam railroads using private property prin- 
cipally,'' is one requiring workmen's trains to be run each day, morn- 



«The city lifis planned for two more sections, making eight in all, bringing the 
totiti icuictli up to 4.S.,5 miles, and tlio cost up to between $45,000,000 and .$.">0.(MIO.- 
000. These last two sections have not yet been authorized by the central gov- 
ernment. 

6 The restrictions imposed upon i)rivate companies relate j)rincipally to the 
amomit of capital that may he issne<l, the extent to which loans may he nego- 
tiated, location of the mad, the property purchased, the indemnities jiaid, the 
maxiumm fares charged, the number of trains run, the motive power used, etc. 



RAPlD-THANSrr SUHWAYS IN MKTROPOr.ITAN (MTIKS. 



7<55 



iu^ and ovening, at a fare not to exceed '2 cents for the whole or any 
jiart of the jonrney on the Central London Kaihvay. Of course Par- 
liament knows no hi<i,her law than its own will, and may impose any 
restrictions or may order compulsory purchase mI any |)iMce, l»iit all 
such proceedings are without the realm oi" in-ohahilily. 

This dit^'erence between undereroun<l and tramway lines rather 
surprises one at first, for British cities have gone as far in the -lirec- 
tion of municipal socialism as those of ahnost any other country. The 
e.\})lanation is a very imi)ortant fact, viz, that nuniicipali/ation in 
(ireat Britain is not so much an economic movement as the expression 
of the desire that the local governments keep control of the streets. 
The nndergronnd roads, in so far as they cross or \r.\ss nndei- the 
streets and i)ul)lic places, are using pnblic property, to which, the 




FlO. 'S. — A stati' n 



l,'>ii(l(iii Railway. 



public authorities have as clear a title as that of a private individual 
to the ground under his house. The law knows no limit either al)ove 
or below the surface. Yet no demand has been made npon the nnder- 
o-ronnd lines for payment or for the reser\'ation of the right to take 
over the line. It is to be borne in mind, however, that the nnder- 
o-round roads. esi)ecially those constructed since the movement for 
mnnicipalization became strong, are some distance below the surface." 
that their construction and operation necessitates very little disturb- 
ance of the street surface, and that instead of increasing the street 
tralTic they relieve it. Further, they do not promise to be exceedingly 
remunerative, and without public aid either through subsidies or free 
arrants to use the ground below the surface of the streets many of 



a The average depth of the Glasgow subway is 29 feet, and the Central London 
Railway is everywhere, e.xcept at the western terminus, which is on private 
property, at least 80 feet below the surface of the streets. Only the Metro- 
politan and the INIetropolit.m District Conipany are near the surface and have 
open subways. These are the steam n.ads, wliich .;,'()t their pdwers years ago. 



760 RAPID-TRANSIT SUBWAYS IN METROPOLITAN CITIES. 

them Avoiild not haA'e been built. Both London and Glasgow have 
i-ecognized these facts, and have not opposed the companies when 
they have appealed to Parliament for power to use the ground below 
the streets. 

FRAXCIIISK IN BUDAPEST. 

The nearest ap])roacli to British conditions is to be found in Buda- 
pest. There the city has invested nothing; the subway has been 
built, equipped, and operated by a private company. But the city 
has reserved the privilege of taking over the line in 1940, when the 
concessions for the surface lines exjiire, provided announcement is 
made of its intention two years previous. Otherwise the franchise 
runs ninety years from 1896, or until 198r). The maximum fare is 
fixed at 10 kreutzers (5 cents) during the first fifteen years, after 
which the city authorities may require a reduction. The city will 
receive from the gross revenues an amount to be calculated on the fol- 
lowing scale: 

Per cent. 

Duriiiy the first ten years following a period of twenty yeai's, 1916-1926 1 

During the second ten years following a period of twenty years, 1926-1936_ 2 

Dnring the third ten j-ears following a period of twenty years, 1936-1940 3 

During the fourth ten years following a period of twenty years, 1946-1956. 4 
From this time to the end of the concession, 1956-1986 5 

During the first twenty-five years the city can not grant any other 
concession for the establishment of a system of transportation of any 
kind between the center of the city and the park. And for the first 
fifteen years the company is exempt from taxation. The city, of 
course, possesses in addition the usual police powers, and the conces- 
sion contains many provisions s^^ecifying how the subway was to be 
built and how it is to be operated. 

t?:k:\is of the paius concession. 

The position of the Paris subway is tlie result of many compro- 
mises between the munici])al council and the central government 
whose approval was necessary for the execution of the lu'oject. The 
central authorities insisted that the subway be connected with the 
railroads in order that trains from the country might be run right 
through to the center of the city and a suburban traffic thus de- 
veloped. The municipality feared that the railroad companies 
would get control of the subwa^^ and that a large portion of the popu- 
lation would be induced to leave the city and live in the suburbs, 
thereby decreasing the city's revenue from octroi. A compromise 
was finally effected, and in the early part of 1898 the act was passed, 
which fixed the gauge of the road, over which there had been so much 
dispute, at the standard width. ])ut the city, in order to prevent 
the railroads from ever sending their cars over the snbwaj', has built 



RAriD-TRANSlT SrUWAVS IN 1\I KTia )!'()[, ITA X (MIIKS. 7(')7 

llu> (iimu'ls so narrow that only those cars can he used that ai-c 
especially constructed foi- the snhway. 

Another |)oint u|)on which the niiniici|)al coinicil and the central 
o;()\-ernnient did not aii'i-ee was as to who should opei-ate the lines. 
The council wished not only to own hut to o|)erate the road. The 
central authorities objected, hut finally conipi-onii^ed upon UMniici|)al 
ownership and private opei-ation. This ])lan oilers many advantafz:es. 
According to a general law jjassed in 1842, a private conipanv ifets a 
franchise for seventy-five years if it builds a i-ailroad ; l)ut i f a public 
authority constructs a line it may shoi-ten the period to thirty-five 
years. Further, under private ownershi[). a company would find 
considerable difficulty in raising- sufficient capital to build and operate 
the whole system. Paris could borrow the money easily, and not only 
easily, but at a lower rate of interest than a pi'ivate company. This 
saA'ing would be no small factor and \\ill enable the road to lower 
fares ultimately. 

The contract between the nnmicipality an<l the operating com- 
pany is most interesting. The franchise runs for thirty-five years, 
but at any time within seven years from date of construction the city 
may acquire the lines. The company agrees to maintain the highest 
.degree of efficiency, to give to its employees an annual vacation of 
ten days with full salary, to give them full pay during military 
instruction and sickness, to insure them against accident, and to pay 
the city 2 cents for every first-class ticket and 1 cent for every second- 
class ticket sold, with the added ])rovision that wdien the annual 
passenger traffic exceeds 140,000,000 persons, this sum shall be 
increased, reaching at the highest mark 2.1 cents for each first-class 
and 1.1 cents for each second-class ticket. As the concession fixes 
the rate for a first-class ticket at 5 cents and for a second-class ticket 
at 3 cents, and for school children wnth teacher at a uniform rate of 
1 cent, about one-third of the entire receipts will go to the nnmici- 
pality and two-thirds to the company. As the cost will be about 
$35,000,000 for the lines thus far authorized, an annual revenue of 
$1,100,000 will be necessary to pay the interest, sinking-fund charges, 
and incidental expenses; operating expenses are paid by the com- 
pany leasing the subway. Thus, if the entire system should carry 
only 125,000,000 passengers annually, the city would more than pay 
all expenses. As this is considered a very low estimate and as it 
seems almost certain that the traffic wnll far exceed this number, the 
city wnll probably find the subway a paying investment. The roads 
in London, Berlin, and Xew York carry nearly 5,000,000 passengers 
per mile per year; the Paris subway ought easily to reach the nec- 
essary 3,000,000 per mile per year. 

The entire system of subw^ays is not to l)e constructed at once, but is 
to be divided into six sections (two more have not been approved by 



768 RAPID-TRANSTT SUBWAYS IN METROPOLITAN CITIES. 

the central governineiit ) , which are to be opened from time to time as 
specified in the act, until l)v 1916 every line will be in operation. All 
are to be operated by the present leasing company and upon the same 
terms as given above. The thirty-five-year period — the duration of 
the franchise — is to run from the date of opening each line, and to 
prevent any inconvenience which might arise from franchises for 
different sections falling in at different dates, the concession pro- 
vides that the company may retain possession of all until the termi- 
nation of the last franchise, and shall pay 4.5.000 francs per kilometer 
per year ($14,000 per mile) for every line whose lease expires pre- 
vious to that time. 

CONDITIONS IN BOSTON LEASE. 

Like Paris, Boston owns its subway and has rented it for twenty 
years to a private company — the West End Elevated Railway Com- 
pany, which has subleased it to the Boston Elevated Railway Com- 
pany. The rental will never be less than 4| per cent of the cost of 
the subway, and if this sum does not amount to 5 cents for each car 
using the subway, it shall be made nj) to this sum. The income will 
pay the interest on all outstanding bonds and i)r()\id(' a sinking 
fund to extinguish them at maturity — forty years hence. All oper- 
ating expenses are paid by the operating company, and at the ex- 
piration of the lease the city will pay the fair value of all rails, pipes, 
wires, etc., which are affixed to the subway. 

COMPENSATION. 

Comparing the various methods of securing compensation, it is 
evident that in no instance have large profits been secured. Buda- 
]iest undoubtedly receives the most, considering the fact that it has 
invested nothing, for even the expense of rearranging sewers, water 
mains, conduits, etc, was borne by the sulnvay company. Paris may 
make the most, for if the ti-affic greatly exceeds 125,000,000 pei'sous 
annually, the net profit will be more than 5 j^er cent of the gross re- 
ceipts, as the rate is about ;5;3 per cent of the gross receipts. How- 
ever, if the traffic should fall considerably below this figure, the 
municipality will need to make up the deficit from other sources. 
There seems to be little risk in this direction, and Paris has followed 
its usual course of exacting large payments from unuiicipal monopo- 
lies rather than of requiring lower prices and increasingly better serv- 
ice. London and (ilasgow are at the other extreme, and New York 
and Boston ai-e iu)t far distant, for the payments are not large, barely 
exceeding for the present the interest on bonds issued for the construc- 
tion of the subways and sinking fund charges to wipe out the debt. 

Considerable variety exists also as to the basis for compensation. 
Budapest uses gross receipts — an easily ascertainable basis and freed 



RAIMD-THANSIT Sl'BWAYS IN M KTMOPi )I,I'I'A N CI'IIKS. 7()') 

from niiu'li adverse crilicisiu l»y (lie i'e(iiiireiiieiit that the I'ale in- 
crease as the years pass, or. in othei- words, as the road heconies more 
remunerative. Paris has adoj)led an e\-en siniplei- hasis. i-eeeivin<; a 
certain fixed sum for each ticket soM. An al(eni|)t has also been 
made to vary the amount with (he (lallic. l)n( no( quite so success- 
fully as in Budapest. In Boston and New ^'ork the cost of con- 
struction is used as a basis, and the i)ayment (o the city is a (i.\ed 
sum, no nuitter what the profit or the loss to the [)iivate company or 
the size of the trallic. 

MOTIVK roWKKS. 

An examination of the roads themselves re\'eals a i^reat difference 
between those recently constructed and the undei-^round lines in Lon- 
don built many j^ears ago. Steam as a inotixc ])o\ver has ^iven way 
to electricity. Every London line constructed since bSlK) — the date 
when the City and vSouth London road was opened— has adopted the 
third-rail electric system, as have also Paris and New York. The 
Budapest and Boston subways use the overhead trolley, (xlasgow 
clings to cable traction, which is lai'gely accounted for by the con- 
servatism of the Scotch and the fact that in ISDO, when the work was 
begun on the subway, electricity had not yet clearly demonstrated its 
efficiency. Cable traction was much cheaper, and upon the stee}) 
grades the car going down will help to i)ull up the car'going in the 
opposite direction. The act of Parliament imposes no conditions 
except that steam can not be used. The (ilasgow subway is unicjue, 
in that it is the only underground cable raihvay for passengers in the 
Avorld. Thus far it has worked vei-y Avell. 

TIJAVEL A I'l.KASl KK. 

All the modern subways, even that of Glasgow, have adoi)(ed elec- 
tric lighting, and the cars and tunnels are in niariced contrast to 
those of the steam lines in London, which are dindy lighted, dirty, 
and forbidding. Glazed tiles have generally been used, especially at 
the stations, and in every way the comfort and pleasure of the pas- 
sengers have been administered to. The entrances in Boston and 
Budapest particularly are very artistic, and instead of being repid- 
lant, because of their dirt and ugliness, even add to the beauty of the 
streets and public places in which they ai-e located. The Loudon 
electric lines, being sit(uited many feet below the level of the streets, 
have provided spacious elevators, which counteract the disadvantages 
of deep-level travel. The Paris, Budapest, and Boston subways do 
not need them, being located near the surface of the streets. The 
Glasgow^ company has one. in Ivelvinl)ridge. wliere (he road i>- 11.') 
feet below the crest of the hill, and New "I'ork will have a few where 
the road is far below the surface. 
SM 1904 49 



770 



RAPID-TRANSIT SUBWAYS IN METROPOLITAN CITIES. 



In the construction of the subways, pLms much the same have been 
followed eveiywhere. Where the road level is near the street level, 
an oj^en ditch was made, steel framework inserted, and the street pave- 
ment replaced. AVhere this was impracticable, tunnels were dri\en; 
and in a few instances short viaducts were erected; The Budapest sub- 
Avay is ever3'where just below the street level, and consists of two pai'- 
allel lines at the same level, separated only by steel pillars, station 
platforms, or thin Avails. The I^aris subway likewise consists of two 
parallel lines and always at the same level, except where one section 
crosses another and a dip is made to avoid crossing at grade. Some 
of the distance the lines run side b}^ side in a single tunnel ; in other 
portions each line has a separate tunnel, uniting only at stations. 
The Glasgow road consists of two distinct tunnels throughout, except 
at stations, as is true of nearly all the Ijondon electric lines except the 
AVaterloo and City road, which has only one line almost all the way. 
The Boston subway has from two to four lines, usually at the same 





T^ 


•*< .^^ 


ffitlBn^HI 


Kr>^i^-'-^9 


^^n 


i 
1 




'''"1 



Fig. 4.— Budapest stations. 

level, except where it is necessary to raise or lower one to avoid grade 
crossings. The New York line is the only one that has trarcks for the 
sjDecial purpose of running express trains; and with the Central Lon- 
don road is unique in raising its stations above the level of the road. 
Each train on its departure thus is accelerated by the force of 
gravity, and as it approaches is checked by the same force. This will 
greatly increase the rate of speed by reducing the time required for 
stopping and starting. 

Most of the modern subways are adopting the American style of 
car, with an entrance at each end, in place of the old-style compart- 
ment coach. Even the London roads are making the change, and the 
(ilasgow line introduced them at the start. The Paris car is a 
hybrid, having two doors on each side, one set being used for entrance 
and the other for exit. The train idea seems also to be spreading, 
as being more economical and better adapted to handling large 
crowds. 



RAPID-TRANSTT SI^BWAYS TN METHOPOMTA N CITIKS. 



771 



There is one inai'ked (lill'crciice hclwccii foi'd^n nnd AiiiericMii 
lines. Most of the foi-nier have first and s(>coud-eh»ss (•()nij)ai-tn)ents 
or cars; the hitter charge the same fai-e foi- every one. The (ihisgow 
subway maintains only one service and ihc tendency elsewhere is in 
this direction. Some London roads have already made the change. 

The uniform fare, regardless of distance, is also more common 
with us than abroad. In Paris and Budapest it is in vogue, but the 
lines are so short as to render a graded system unnecessary. The 
Glasgow company intended to adopt it, but as the cars run continu- 
ously around the circle, one would be able to ride indefinitely for one 
fare. To prevent this, a zone sj^stem was adojMed. A penny ticket 
(2 cents) allows one to go as far as the fourth station from where 
he enters the car, or about 1| miles — one-fourth the circumference 






iiiiiiiifc-iii 



Fio. 5.— A Central London Railway car. 



of the road. A 2-penny ticket (4 cents) entitles one to travel any 
distance, but not more than once around the cii-cle. A ticket is 
given each passenger, which he gives up upon lea^•ing the station at 
his destination. Any one who has ridden farther than his ticket 
indicates is thus found out and required to pay. 

That the subways of London, Paris, Budapest, Glasgow, and Bos- 
ton were needed and are performing a useful social service is shown 
by the large number of passengers can-ied. Their influence can 
only partially be estimated, but undoubtedly the etTect upon social 
conditions, especially housing and overcrowding, is considerable, 
not to mention the saving of time in going to and from work. Doubt- 
less rapid transit will not solve either the housing problem or trans- 
form our cities into Utopias, but it will alleviate social conditions 
and prevent what other\\ise would be unbearable evils. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904, — Brown. 



Plate I. 




Sir George Gabriel Stokes. 



(}PX)R(JE (JABKIKL sr()KP:S." 



r.y Ku.NKsr W. I'.kown. 



Georg-e Gabriel Stokos was horn in IicImikI on Au.iiust IP), ISli). 
His father, the Rev. Gabriel Stokes, was rector of the ehureh in the 
little villao-e of Skreen, Sliyo Gounty, his mother bein<r a (lati<rhter 
of the rectoi- of Kihca. He was sent for his early education to 
"Walls's school in Dublin, and afterwards to the college in Bristol, 
whence, in ISIJT, he i)i-ocee(led to Gauibrid<>e, entering at Pembroke 
Gollege. His life was henceforth fully identified with the interests 
of his college. He was ehvted to a fellowship just after taking his 
degree in 1841, and retained it until his marriage in 1857 to a 
daughter of the IJev. T. II. Ivobinson, I). I)., dii-ector of Armagh Ob- 
servatory. Under the statutes of the university at that time in force, 
this event compelled him to vacate his fellowship, but he was reelected 
in 1869 under the new statutes and only resigned in 11>{)2, when he 
was 83 years old, to become master of the college. His tenure of the 
latter post was short; he died on February 1, \UOl]. 

Practically the whole of Stokes's scientific life was connected with 
the interests of two bodies — his university and the Royal Society. 
He graduated as senior wrangler in IS+l, the first of the great trium- 
virate which attained the coveted ht)nor in three successive years — 
Stokes, Cayley, and Adams. There were giants in those days. Sylves- 
ter and George Green had taken their degrees in 1837, and Lord Kelvin 
followed in 1845, and chief among thOse of note in other lines was 
Charles Kingsley, who took honors in mathematics and classics in 
1842. This period was in reality not far removed from the time when 
British mathematics had been entirely isolated. Until the begiiming 
of the centur}^ Newton's methods and fluxional notation were almost 
exclusively employed, and it was only some ten years before Stokes 
matriculated that the influence of AVoodhouse, aided later by Peacock, 
J. V. W. Herschel, Babbage, Whewell, Airy, and others, was success- 
fid in completely establishing continental methods for examination 
purposes and in forcing the recognition of the mathematical work 

" Keprinted l»y periuissiuii fnmi Tlit> I'liysicnl Kcvicw. LaiicastiT. I';i., Vol 
XVIII, No. 1, January, 10U4. 

773 



774 GEORGE GABRIEL STOKES. 

which had made such advances outside the country. Thus the men of 
the period, in the middle of which came Stokes, had the advantage of 
being trained by those who were thoroughly grounded in the old 
methods, but who had spent time and energy in Avorking up and intro- 
ducing the new. Neither was the intellectual activity of the pioneers 
of the new movement confined to research in mathematics. Text- 
books had been written setting forth the continental methods, and 
translations of foreign works had been made. A classical tripos had 
been established in 1824, but all candidates who went in for it were 
required to have taken honors previously in mathematics — a rule 
abolished in 1850. 

The mathematical jDower of Stokes l)egan to show itself immedi- 
ately. His first paper was published the year after he took his de- 
gree and the decade which followed was certainly the most fruitful of 
his life in regard to the equality and quantity of the work which has 
come directly from his pen. The Koyal Society Catalogue contains 
the titles of over 50 papers printed Avithin this period, and many of 
these are not only of far-reaching importance but mark the begin- 
nings t)f his researches into almost every department of mathematical 
physics — hydrodynamics, light, elastic solids, the mathematical ex- 
pression of wave motion by Fourier's series, sound and conduction of 
heat. iVIodest as he was concerning his own achievements, he thought 
nearly all of these papers sufficiently good to l)e included in his col- 
lected works, the first three volumes of Avhich cover this period alone. 
To mention a few of the most important, we have the researches On 
the Steady Motion of Incompressible Fluids and On the Theories of 
the Internal Friction of Fluids in Motion, and of the Equilibrium 
and Motion of Elastic Solids, with a Supplement, which together 
constitute the complete foundation of the hydrokinetics of the present 
day. In the paper On the P^ffect of the Internal Friction of Fluids 
on the Motion of Pendulums, he considers and works out the effect 
of viscosity on various kinds of motion. I)ee|)-sea waves and the soli- 
tary waves are ver}^ fully treated in the memoir On the Theory of 
Oscillatory Waves. But the theory of light was the subject in which 
he seems to have been most willing to work. The two papers, On the 
Dynamical Theory of Diffraction and On the Change of Kefrangi- 
bility of Light, in the latter of which fluorescence* is described and 
explained, would have alone sufficed to make his reputation. 

Two further papers. On the Critical Values of the Sums of Periodic 
Series and On the Numerical Calculation of a Class of Definite Inte- 
grals and Infinite Series, must be mentioned, not only because of their 
great intrinsic value, but also because they show that the author was 
i'igh( abreast of the developments in pure mathematics at that time 
and that he was able to advance them and use them as an instrument 
of research for the investigation of i)hysical ])i"()blems. 



GEOHCJK (iABHIEI. STOKHS. 775 

This last fact is perhaps wdrth iii-.isliiiii- on at the piociit tiiiic, 
when the sej)ai-ali()ii hctwcni pure niatlicinatics and physics has he- 
come far widci' than is advantageous for cither. The physicist works 
mainly in his laboratory, tlie inatheniat ician at his desk, neither 
intrenching on the domain of liic other. Kven tiie ina<:-nilicent work 
of Poincare, introchicini;- tlie rigorous and friiitfid methods of pui-e 
mathematics for the treatnuMit of physical j)rol)Ienis, is only a i)artial 
step in the right direction. With Stokes this divorce never occurred; 
expenment went hand in hand with theory. As early as 1840 he had 
fitted up a small hd)oratory in his rooms, of sim])U' character it is true. 
i)ut none the less suflicient to test, sometimes searchingly, the results 
of his theories. And it was the same all through his life. He was 
never content to leave a theory unconhrmed by experiment, aud if a 
new observation were made it nnist be comi)ared with theory. These 
qualities are especially noticeable in some of his earlier i)apers. In 
that (m internal friction, he ex})lains the suspension of clouds aiul the 
subsidence of ri])ples and waves after a stoi'ui: in those on oscillatory 
wave motion, the well-known experiments of Scott Kussell are fully 
considered; his ])aper on ditf'raction is divided into two parts, consist- 
ing of his theory and of the experiments which he made to test it, and 
so on. Later in life he would, in a short note or a few renuirks, <rive 
the main outline of an explanation of some new phenomenon: fni-- 
ther research by others usually proved him to be coi-rect. 

This active period quickly brought recognitiou to him. In 1S4!) he 
succeeded to the Lucasian chair of uuithematics in Cambridge, a post 
held previously by Isaac Barrow, Xewton. Woodhouse, Airy, and 
Babbage, and five years later he was elected secretary to the Royal 
Society. He was not content with delivering the two courses of 
lectures required of the professor by the regulations. lie let it be 
known that he considered it pai't of his duty to help students in their 
work, and such helj) from a man like Stokes was not to be despised. 
He was always ready to give a.ssistance, whether it was asked for 
work already started, or in suggesting new problems to be under- 
taken, or in giving encoui'agement wheiv failure seeuu'd likely. This 
trait was even more conspicuous during his thirty-ou(> years' tenure 
of the Royal Society position. Xaturally brought into contact with 
all the best work which was f)eing done throughout the country, he 
largely gave himself up to hel[)ing others. This was undoubtedly 
the main reason for the smaller output after this time. As against 
50 papers produced up to 185'2, we find only •")(') from then until the 
end of 18S;5, and many of the latter consist of addresses and short 
notes on such ssibjects as chemistry, details of insti-uments. and his- 
tory of science, all valuable but ixn'haps not epoch-madving like the 
earlier menu)irs. His reward was the frequent acknowledgment of 
his assistance which those alone who had received knew how to appre- 



776 GEORGE GABRIEL STOKES. 

ciate. A generous tribute is given by Lord Kelvin " of his own 
indebtedness, and a further one by an anonymous writer,'^ who tells 
that though he was previously quite unknown, some work of his 
attracted the attention of Stokes and a correspondence was started in 
the course of which on one particular day he received as many as 
three letters and a telegram ! It is unnecessary to say a word on the 
quality of the assistance given. It was the same throughout; knowl- 
edge and time were always at the disposal of small and great. 

It has been said that much of Stoke's work was given to others, 
and indeed some of it was never published in scientific journals at all. 
An instance of this occurs with reference to the transformation of a 
line integral into a surface integral which he put as a question in a 
Smith's 2)rize examination paper in 1S54. Again, he had thought 
out the physical basis of the solar spectrum some seven years before 
KirchhoU', and had been in the habit of lecturing on it. Stokes 
deprecated any attempt to obtain for himself the credit of this dis- 
covery, saying that he had failed to take an essential step in tlie proc- 
ess. It is i^ossil^le that the papers he left behind Avill tell even more 
of his own work than we know now, and they will doubtless add 
much to the scientific history of the second half of the last century. 

Amongst other honors, Stokes received the Rumford medal in 
1852, the Copley medal in 1803, was Burnett lecturer 1883-1885, 
Gifford lecturer 1890-1802, and was created a baronet in 1889 when 
Lord Salisbury was i)rime minister. 

In 1855 Stokes received the highest scientific honor which England 
land has to bestow — the presidency of the Koyal Society ; this he held 
until 1890. From 1887-1891 he represented the University in Parlia- 
ment. Being still Lucasian professor, he thus attained the unique 
distinction of holding the three positions simultaneously. Only once 
before had one man, Isaac Newton, occupied them all, and in his case 
the tenures were at different ])eriods of his life. In 1899 Cambridge 
University fittingly celebrated the jubilee of his election as professor, 
inviting rejiresentatives from all parts of the world and publishing a 
memoi-ial vohnue of the Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical 
Society — a l)ody to which many of his paj^ers had been communi- 
cated. Although at this time about to enter his eighty-first year, he 
seemed able to endure fatigue without showing signs of his advanced 
age. On the chief day set apart by the university he attended morn- 
ing and aftci'noon congregations of the senate, a lunch, and a late 
banquet, and the following day was early in London to attend a com- 
mittee, only closing his labors on various matters late that night. 

A word must be said concerning Stokes's relation to religious ques- 
tions, partly because Ihey evidently entered much into his thoughts 



a Nature, February 12, 1903. & Ibid., February 19, 1903. 



(JEORCK OAniUKL STOKES. 777 

and fornuHl an essential part of his cliaractcr, imd partly lu'caiiM- diir- 
ino-the last (wentv years of his life there were piihlished addresses and 
papers on the (piestion hy him. On several occasions he spol<(> before 
the Church Con<>Tess, the Victoria Institute, and other bodies on the 
relation between science and faith. What value is (o be set on these, 
this is not the i)lace to di.scnss; it is sutHcient to mention that he took 
a [)r()ininent i)art in the et!'orts made in En«rland in edncatin<r the 
public to hioher views of the relations of science to theolo<;v, and in 
rescuino- the study of the former from the doubtful position which it 
had, even amono; some of. the more advanced students of relirjions 
questions. Tlis own personality and the methods of treatment which 
he adopted were always on the side of promotinji^ ^ood feelinfj and 
tendinjr toward the prevention of acrimonious discussion amoniyst 
those whose opinions differed most widely. He avoided, as a rule, 
dotrmatic statements and treated the (juestions in his usual scientific 
manner, allowino- his own ()])inions to be inferred i-ather than ex- 
pressly stated. 

The published portraits of Stokes, represent in<2: I'iiii with a some- 
what severe type of countenance, fail to brino; out a characteristic 
expression. Ordinarily silent in society, he woidd freely talk on any 
subject that interested him. While tellino: of some remarkable fact 
or observation, the broad hiah forehead would ])ucker into a thousand 
wrinkles and a smile would lioht up his face with a brilliancy which 
seemed to show a concentrated picture of the whole man. Those who 
had the privileo;e of listening to his hi<i-hly finished and carefully 
worded lectures on the wave theory of lia-ht delivered without a note, 
or of watching: the simple experiments and diagrams with which he 
illustrated them, will remember how eagerly they looked for the first 
symptoms of this change. The lectures, too, were characteristic. 
Toward the end of the course, evidently wishing to give more than 
was possible in the limited time, he would continue further and 
further over the allotted hour until the last day when, on one occa- 
sion, amid the gradual disappearance of the class to fulfill othei- 
engagements, he kept those who remained interested for nearly three 
hours. 

There w-as but little apparent failure of Stokes's physical and 
intellectual powers until within a few^ days of his death at the age of 
83. He died as he had lived, in harness, and a great figure passed 
away from the scene at the close of a well rounded and successfid 
career. His work, mainly on wave motion and thc^ transformations 
which, in its different forms, it undergoes under \:irious circimi- 
stances, has already taken a permanent plaoe in the history of science. 
And he has left behind with those who knew him a memorial of him- 
self which will not be easily effaced. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904. — Sciieuchert. 



Plate I. 




KAKL ALFKKI) VOX ZITTEL. 



TriUislatcd hv Ciiari.ks Scihhheut. « 



Diirin<>" an oxciirsion in southern Tyrol in the smnnior of 1898, 
Privy CounsoHoi" Karl Alfred von ZittcK j)r()f('Ssor of ijfi'olo^y and 
[)ale()nt()loi>y at tlie Fnivorsity of Munich, (lorniany, first began to 
sutiVi' fi'oni heart lr()ul)h'. On the evcninii; of the oth of January, 
11)04, he died, being then in his sixty-fourth year. In Zittel, the 
Bavarian Academy of Sciences has lost its president, the University 
of ^Munich one of its greatest teachers, and paleontology its master. 
For thirty-five years he conducted the periodical Paheontographica, 
and was about to complete the fiftieth volume of this great paleonto- 
logical serial, and to celebrate the event with words of rejoicing and 
warranted pride, when his deatli changed contemplated joy into 
deepest mourning. 

Karl Alfred von Zittel was born on the 25111 of September, 18:39, 
in the parsonage at P>ahlingen, the seat of the rulers of Baden. He 
w^as the youngest son of Pastor, later Dean, Karl Zittel, who was 
jn-imiinent in the political life of Baden and leader of Protestant 
liberalism. 

Young Zittel showed an early love for natural history, and when 
his father removed to Heidelberg, he, as a student in the gynmasium, 
spent his spare hours in the well-known mineral shop owned by 
Lommel. Here he arranged and identified fossil snails and shells, 
and thus laid the foundation of his surprising and accurate knowl- 
edo-e of forms — a knowledge which, combined with a brilliant mem- 
ory, later distinguished him as master in paleontology. 

In 1857 he entered Heidelberg University as a student of the natu- 
ral sciences, especially of paleontology. At that time it was neither 
comfortable nor profitable to study paleontology at Heidelberg, 
because of the almost insurmountable dilliculties in securing the three 
students necessary to induce Heinrich (ieorg Broun, author of 
Letha?a Geognostica and of Index Paleontologicus, and joint pub- 

« A free translation, greatly condensed, of the German memorial. Karl .Vlfred 
von Zittel, Ein Naclirnff, by Prof. J. F. roniepck.i, published in TaliTOnto- 
grapbica, Band .^)0, 1004, pp. .S-l'S. Extracts fi-oni the writings of Sness, Osliorn, 
and Woodward have also been added. 

771) 



780 KARL ALFRED VON ZITTEL, 

lisher with C Leoiihard of Xeiies Jahi-hnr-h fiir j\[ineralo<2,ie, to give 
a course in that science. But once during Zittel's term of study were 
the three students secured. ^ 

Doctor Zittel continued his studies during the year ISOO at Paris. 
Here he met the venerabk> Elie de Beaumont, who, with Dufrenoy, 
worked for eighteen years on the fii-st geological map of France. Of 
him Zittel said, '" The geological fame of Elie de Beaumont rests on 
his admirable field Avork and his writings concerning the age and 
origin of mountain systems." Around lieauuiont and Edmond 
Hebert, the honored teacher at the Sorbonne, and de Verneuil, there 
gathered many of the geologists of France — Eudes Deslongchamps, 
Albert Gaudry, Xunier-Chalmas, aiul others. All these became the 
friends of the young (lerman, and remained so. As Zittel esj^ecially 
cherished this attachment, the}^ rewarded his loyalty with their 
loyalty. As })roof of their high estimation of him he was elected 
in 1898 vice-iiresident of the Oeological Societ}^ of France, a dis- 
tinction rarely bestowed on a foreigner. 

In 18()1 he studied at Vienna, then especially noted for geology and 
paleontology. There he met Wilhelm voi; Haidinger, the founder of 
natural history in Austria, and at that time the head of his crea- 
tion, the k. k. geologische Keichsanstalt. Of this remarkable man 
Suess has written, " He was not a charming speaker. However, if 
a young man had the courage to seek him at his home in Ungargasse, 
he would then unbend his dignity. With both hands he would hold 
his guest during the entire visit, while his silvery locks of hair 
streamed down over the rosy cheeks preserved into old age. With 
numy a ' ja, ja, ja,' he would endeavor to stinndate and attract and 
attach to himself the young mind, as if he wished to pour into it 
some of his own warmth and an exalted conception of the duties and 
the life objects of the naturalist. At the same time he would seek to 
indelibl}' impress upon the listener how much there is to work for in 
this beautiful world, and how much van be accomi^lished by united 
effort." Associated with Haidinger at that time at the Natural His- 
tory Institute of Vienna were Franz von Hauer, the geologist par 
excellence of Austria, Dionys Stur, Johann Cczjzek, Fotterle, Guido 
Stache, and many others. The young, genial Eduard Suess had then 
just begun his highl}^ honored career as the first professor of geology 
at the University of Vienna. At the Koyal Mineral Cabinet, Zittel 
met the distinguished Moritz Homes, famous for his wide knowledge 
of Tertiary fossils — a knowledge young Zittel nuist have greatly 
valued because of his own ])revious training in the classic Tertiary 
basin of Paris. At the Technical High School there taught Ferd- 
inand von TTochstetter, a student of (v)uenstedt's, and there also lived 
at \'ienn;i the Huguenot. Ami lioue, a great traveler, of profound 
learnini;" bnl singular in jx'i'son. 



KART. AT>FRED VON ZITTFJ.. 781 

Tn 18(>2 Zittol was a volunteer assistant to (he •^'•eolofrical survey of 
Austria, l)eiii<2- associated witli F. von Ilauei- and (J. Slache in map- 
ping the coast region of Dalniatia. 

Tn 1S(>8 he was offered the position of professor ordinariiis at 
Lemberg, but declined it to accept a far less well-endowed i)(>silion 
as assistant in the Royal Mineral ('al)iiu>t of Vienna, now known as 
the Koyal Natural History Museum. This determination on the j)art 
of the idealist, Zittel, caused much surj)rise, yet to him the great 
paleontologic collections of Vienna were of far greater interest than 
the salary attached to the i)rofess()rship. His decision was fortunate 
for paleontology; he hei-e began his ])aIe<)nt()logic career in his studies 
of the bivalves of the Gosau formation — his first extensive work. 

In 1803 he returned to his home in P)aden, and acce])te(l the pro- 
fessorship of mineralogy, geognosy, and paleontology at the Poly- 
technic School at Karlsruhe. Here he renuiined three years, during 
which time he married Miss Ida Schirnicr. a daughter of I. W. Schir- 
nier, the landscape painter, anil director of the Karlsi-uhe Art School. 

At the age of 27 years, or in the autunni of 1S(U). he was called to 
Munich, to the distinguished position of })rofessor of paleontology 
and conservator of the j)aleontol()gical collections of Bavaria. This 
position had been made vacant by the earlv death of Albert Oppel. 
In 1880 he declined a call to (liittingen as successor to von Seebach, 
and was made professor of geology; also, after the death of Schaf- 
hautle in 1800, he was appointed conservator of the Bavarian geolog- 
ical collections. 

"" Munich became Zittel's second home. Here he taught and labored 
for more than thirty-seven years. These were years re])lete with con- 
tinuous and fruitful investigation and instruction — a long period of 
labor which was only occasionally interrupted by grudgingly allowed 
vacations and these were not infrequently devoted to scientific jour- 
neys. Strict and loyal in the fulfillment of duty, and an exam})le to 
all as a lover of work, Zittel could be found day after day in his 
simple workroom in the grey Alte Akaclemie in Neuhauserstrasse. 
During his last months of illness it was ver}^ hard for him to be kept 
from the daily walk to his Institute and from the treasures of his col- 
lections. Ceaseless work was the motto of his life — even on his last 
sick bed he wrote for the completi(»n of the second edition of his 
Grundziige der Palaeontologie — till death put an end to his life and 
to his labors. 

"At Munich Zittel entered the field of work to which he was emi- 
nently fitted. Here he was held in highest esteem, established a 
world-wide reputation, and created for himself and for Munich the 
greatest renown by his l)rilliant Avorks. the chief being the Ilandbuch 
der Palaeontologie. The Munich Paleontologic Museum — Zittel's col- 



782 KARL ALFRED VON ZTTTEL. 

lection — he made one of the oreatest and most important scientifically 
of the world. At Munich he founded the most renowned chair, the 
largest school of paleontology, and quickly made evident the truth 
of the i^rediction of M. Homes in 1866, when Zittel was called to 
Munich : ' Through Zittel the leading position in paleontology, which 
heretofore Vienna has held, will be transferred to Munich/ 

" Here Zittel was recognized without envy by the entire scientific 
world as the master of paleontology, the teacher of paleontologists," 

A, S. AVoodward has stated : '• For more than thirty years he had 
been acknoAvledged as the leading exponent of the science Avhich is 
intimately connected with the progress both of geology and biology. 
For a still longer period his charming personality had combined with 
his wide reputation to attract to the Palaeontological Museum at 
Munich students of the natural sciences froui all civilized nations." 

The master of modern i)aleontology passed away in Karl Alfred 
von Zittel. This was clearly shown during his life, and was also 
acknowledged in the numerous memorials which have been written of 
the great dead by Branco, Canavari. Dacque, I)iener,(iiinther, Hiegel, 
Jaekel, Kitchen, Osborn, Pom peck j, Eothpletz. and Woodward. 

Zittel traA'eled extensively in the interests of geology; he made 
numerous trips to the Alps, went twice into Scandinavia, England, 
and North America, and more often to France and Italy, Russia and 
Algeria. 

His first publications relate to minerals, minei'al localities, and 
petrography. He next assisted in ma])ping the geology of Dalmatia. 
and then of Baden. In glacialogy he proved, in 1873. that during 
Diluvial time the glaciers extended across the folds of the Bavarian 
Alps far over the foreland of the upper Bavarian North Alps; and 
that to the wf)rk of glaciers is due the present topographic and oro- 
graphic picture of the Bavarian high table-land. 

In the winter of 1873-74 he was geologist on the Rohlfs expedition 
across the Libyan desert to the Siuah (Siwa) oasis. Of this then 
terra incognita he constructed a geologic map covering the region 
traveled, and showed by means of his abundant collections of fossils 
that the limestone plateau forming the base of the desert is of Eocene 
and Miocene age; further, that these are superposed on youngest 
Cretaceous or Upper Devonian, with a fauna indicating that this 
constituted a part of the Indian Cretaceous basin. The Sahara until 
then was belicn^ed to have been covered by the diluvial sea, and this 
fact lent itself to a ready explanation of the causes of the Glacial 
period in Eurojie. Zittel, however, exploded the myth of the Sahara 
sea by showing that during Diluvial time Sahara was land, and that 
the sand of the desert was not formed by the action of sea waves, but 
is due to weathering of the older sandstones. 



KARL ALFRKD VON /I'lPKL. 788 

In connoct ion with liis «rt'<)lo<,nc work Zilti'l also hccanic tlic hislor-i- 
()<rrii])lu'r of geolofry and i)al('ontology. All llial hiiiiian mind and 
labor liavo produced since ancient limes foi- (lie cliicidalion of (lie 
eartirs history, all that the henu's, Werner, l^eopold von P.iicji, 
Alexander von Ilnniholdt. Ilntton, Kant, I.a Place, Cnvicr. Al. 
Brongniart, Lyell, Qnenstedl, d'()rbi<;ny, and (he oival ninnhcr of 
more recent devotees have accomi)lished, all (his Zittel had included 
in one brilliant picture in his (Jeschichte der (Jeolo-iie und Palaeonto- 
logie l)is Ende des IDten Jahrhunderts. An Euirlish translation of 
this work was made in 1!)01 by one of his students, Mrs. Maria 
Ogilvie-Cirordon. 

Zitters first ])aleontologic paper appeared in 18G1, at a time when 
fossils had but one value — that for the determination of geologic atre. 
The teachings of Cuvier then still held full sway. i. e., each fauna 
was a new creation and each disappeared thi-ough cataclysms. It is 
only since ISTO that paleontology has (al<en an active i)art in the 
establishment of the theoi'y of evolution, and in reality it is only since 
that time that j)ure stratigiaphic paleontologic studies have become 
more sharply distinguished from the biologic systeniMtic. (he la((er 
more and more emphasizing the genealogic asi)ect. 

From the end of the sixth decade Zitters work begins to take on 
the character of paleozoology as contrasted Avith the older ])ale()ntol- 
ogy. By means of a study of the ammonites of the »Sti-amberger beds, 
he is led to discuss the relationship of the forms, and is convinced 
that there are no unchangeal)le ty])es, but that the species are simplv 
isolated individual comj)levos dei'ived from nnbi'oken evolutional 
series. The cataclysui theoi-y and the (cachings of types being over- 
come, Zittel declares himself an CAolutionist. lie always remained 
so, and had a great influence on paleontology. 

How the history of living organisms merges in(() (he his(oi-y of 
the earth is brilliantly described in Zittel's Aus der ITrzeit, ])ublished 
in 1872 (second edition, 1875). Here he also discusses the hyi)()thesis 
of the origin of the earth, following (he teachings of Kanl and 
Laplace, without, however, making dogmas of (heir theories. 

In 187G he began his classic studies on fossil sponges, determining 
their beautiful spicular structures by etching with hydrochloric acid 
and elucidating with the microscope. TTntil this time it was thought 
that the fossil sponges had little in common with recent forms, but 
Zittel showed that all can be grouped in the classification of living 
sponges are psendomorphs after siliceous foi"ms, but that true calca- 
reous sponges do exist among the fossils, a fact disputed by Ilaeckel. 
Zittel originated the classification of fossil and recent sponges, and 
actually made it possible to study fossil forms. 

In the x-eahu of vertebrate paleontology he has published sevepd 



784 KARL ALFEED VON ZITTEL. 

papers, and " those on the Clielonia and pterodactyls from thj' litho- 
graphic stone of P)avaria are especially valuable contributions to 
science" (A. S. Woodward). 

Zittel's great versatility in paleontology showed how difficult it was 
becoming for a person to master this one of the biologic sciences. 
INIaterial was being accunndated in all parts of the world, and results 
^Yere being published in nuniy languages and in almost unlimited 
places. A Avork ^vas needed to orient this great accumulation. In 
i)art. this had been accomjdished by Bronn in his Lethaea Geognos- 
tica, and in the text-books of Geinitz, Giebel, Quenstedt, Pictet, 
d'Orbigny, Owen, and Nicholson. Some of these works, however, 
had become antiquated, and none did justice to the growing science 
of paleontology from the point of view of the paleontologist. Zittel 
therefore undertook to orient all the material into one work, which 
should not only be an aid to all expert paleontologists, but should also 
form a basis of the science. From 1876 to 1803 he labored on the 
animal fossils, while the i)aleobotanical part was undertaken by his 
friend, W. Ph. Schimper, of Strassburg, and after the latter's death, 
by A. Schenk, of Leipzig. Zittel thus gave to the scientific Avorld 
his greatest and most distinguished work, his Ilandbuch der 
Palaeontologie. This stupendous undertaking, which resulted in 
seventeen 3'ears of continuous search and deliberation, is published in 
G volumes, 4 of which are ZitteFs, containing 3,357 pages and •2,97() 
figures. It is the Encyclopedia of Paleontology and the Dictionary of 
Extinct (ienera of Plants and Animals, including their classification 
and geological duration. Branco has justly said that it is the '' res- 
cuing deed " in ])ale()ntology. Later the handbook was translated 
through the joint work of seven savants, headed by Charles Barrois. 
In 1895 Zittel rewrote and condensed his great work into one vol- 
ume — the Grundziige der Tahieontologie (Taheozoologie), which has 
since been translated into English, under the leadership of one of 
Zitters American students, Charles K. Eastman. 

Osborn has stated in Science: "" It is proba!>ly not an exaggeration 
to say that he did more for the promotion and dift'usion of paleontol- 
ogy than any other single man who lived during the nineteenth cen- 
tury. While not gifted with genius, he possessed extraordinary 
judgment, critical capacity, and untiring industry." 

AVhile Zittel, since 18(58, Avorked in i)aleontology along the lines of 
evolution, he never came to be a strong adherent of the neo- 
Lamarckian school. In fact, the development of the individual 
(ontogeny) did not seem to liim to be reliable evidence as indi- 
cating the phylogeny of the stock and thus leading to a natural clas- 
sification of organisms. The teachings of Cope and Hyatt did not 
take a strong hold on him, and we see in the second edition of his 



KAKL AI>FKi;i) VON ZITTKL. 7^5 

(Jnindziiofc. jMiMislu'd shortly aflci- his dealh. tliat he a(h)ptc'(l none 
of the philosophic work of the collahorators in the Kiiijlish transla- 
tion of the first edition. In this connection. A. S. Woodward has 
stated in Xatnre, "His last essay of general interest was an address 
on Paleontology and the hiooeiietic law." This address " was almost 
the only occasion in which Professor von Zittel ventni-cd to express 
any opinions on the philosophy of biology or the solntion of finida- 
mental problems. * * * Indeed, scarcely any of his work can be 
regarded as snggesting important novel points of view." 

In 1844 the Mnnich i)aleontologic collections began with Andreas 
AA'agner as first cnrator, followed by Albert Oppel. These men 
brought together the collections of (Jraf Minister lliiberlein Obern- 
dorfer. Ilerzog von Leuchtenberg. TTohenegger, etc. Since then 
Zittel has enormously increased the ]\Iunich collection in all direc- 
tions. Of ammonites, ZitteFs Collection contains more than li.OOO 
forms, and this is but one of many examples that could be cited to 
show its great richness. '* Thirty-seven and one-half years ago Zittel 
took charge of this collection. Toward its development he at first 
labored ak)ne; later he had one and finally three assistants, and 
<'omi)aratively little pecuniary means were at his disposal. Pie left 
the ^lunich Paleontologic Museum the greatest in continental 
P^urope, the most universal in existence, and scientificallv one of the 
most famous and significant." 

In 184G was begun the great German paleontologic periodical, 
I'alaeontographica, by Wilhelm Dunker and Hermann von Mej^er. 
After the death of von Meyer, in lS()i), Zittel became one of the 
editors, and since the death of Dunker, in 1885. he alone has directed 
this publication. Not less than 70 dift'erent nionograi)hs l)ased on 
the jNIunich collections are by Zittel's students and owe their origin 
largely, if not entirely, to his stimulus. He '• did not overshadow 
the plodding student by adding his own name as joint author " 
( Woodwartl). 

Zittel devoted much of his time to teaching, regarding this work as 
important as that of investigation. In furtherance of his instruc- 
tion he wrote his Ilandbuch and (irundziige and created an additional 
help in his 7:3 paleontological and geological wall charts. Of pale- 
ontologic students Avho have studied in ZitteFs School not less than 
110 are recorded in the All)um of the I*aleontological Institute. His 
students are to be found in all European countries and in the Par 
East and West. He never sought to influence them other than as 
strenuous seekers after the truth. J^acli student of ZitteFs could and 
must develop himself aecorcling to his own inclination and nature, 
free from all theoretic influence and from all narrow, prescribed lim- 
its of investigation. In but one direction did Zittel force his stu- 

SM 1904 50 



786 KARL ALFRED VON ZITTEL. 

dents — to earnest work, to careful deliberation, to honest endeavor. 
This school of Zittel's still exists — large, widespread, and active in 
all fields of paleontology, enndating the example of its master. And 
this school has become the clear shining jewel in the crown of honor 
of this great man. 

" Professor von Zittel naturally received numerous honors. Many 
years ago he became a privy councilor, and from 1899 until his death 
he was president of the Tvoval Bavarian .Vcadenw of Sciences. He 
Avas elected a foreign member of the Geological Society of London in 
1889, and received the Wollaston medal in 1894. He was made a 
foreign associate of the United States National Academy of Sciences 
in 1899, and a correspondent of the Paris Academy in 1900. His 
greatest joy was the ardent friendship Avith which he was honored 
by his former pupils, scattered through nearly all the civilized nations 
of the globe" (AVoodward). 

One monument Karl Alfred von Zittel has erected for himself in 
his works, and another he has built, which has its foundation in the 
hearts of his students and friends — eternal love and honor. 



Smithsonian Report, 1904 — Hertwig. 



Plate I. 




Dr. Carl Geqenbauer. 



CARL GEGEXBAUK.* 



Ry OSCAU IlKKTWKi. 



Of the great naturalists who have by their works given to the nine- 
teenth century its characteristic impress, another has been taken from 
our midst, the recognized leader in the domain of comparative 
anatomy of the vertebrates, the director of the morphological school 
which has developed in Germany under his influence. 

Carl Gegenbaur died on June 1-1, 1903, in Heidelberg, in his 
seventy-seventh year, having some years previously relinquished his 
active duties as professor of human anatoniy on account of continued 
ilhiess. By his death the world has lost a [)eculiarly forceful and 
striking scientific personality. 

At a time when the tendency to specialize was rapidly advancing, 
when through improved apparatus an almost inconceivable mass of 
new facts wa^ being added to our knowledge, and when particularly 
the application of the microscope was completely revolutionizing 
many pursuits, Gegenbaur was especially interested in its application 
to anatomical science and in gathering together all known data and 
formulating certain general laws concerning the structure of animals. 
For this purpose he adopted methods of comparison which had 
already been emplo3^ed by Cnvier, Johannes Midler, and others with 
great success. It Avas his aim, by a critical correlation of isolated 
facts, to elevate descriptive anatomy to the importance of a distinct 
science, which in contradistinction with [)hysiology he was pleased to 
call morphology. 

Unlike many others, Gegenbaur throughout his life attached more 
importance to methodical, systematic research than to isolated obser- 
vations, however significant. The value and importance of the com- 
parative method is particularly emphasized in the new Morpho- 
logisches Jahrbuch (Morphological Yearbook), founded by him in 
J 875. " The comparative method,"' it states, ^' depends essentially on 
critical analysis, and constitutes a synthetic process by which the 
results of critical treatment are brought together. This is to a large 
extent peculiar to the branch of science founded by him, since the 

a Translated by J. Louis Willise, from Deutsche Mediclnische Wochenschrift, 
Leipzig, XXIX .Jalirgang. No. liO. July 10, 1903, pages 525, 526. 

787 



788 CARL GEGENBAUR. 

iDCthocl can be dispensed with in other --scientific researches. In itself 
comparative anatoni}^ is only the development of methodical com- 
parison. 1\) this end anatomy offers an experimental basis. There- 
fore the significance of the metliod goes hand in hand Avith the al)ility 
to apply it as rigorously as possible. This is accomplished by taking 
into consideration all characteristics and their logical value. If this 
be not done, the method is uncritical and therefore unscientific." 

Gegenbaur often discussed this matter, and stated in the intro- 
duction to his most important treatise, " The Cranial Skeleton of 
)Selachians " (German), that in this critical examination and valua- 
tion of anatomical facts there was little in harmony Avith many 
other contemporary endeavors, which not only assumed the accept- 
ance of isolated occurrences as scientific j^roofs, but also regarded 
every synthetical process of reasoning as erroneous. 

At the time, this complaint may have had a certain warrant, for 
during the last three decades the value of the comparative anatom- 
ical method lias not only been universally recognized, but it has 
also been applied in many directions in anatomical and embryo- 
logical researches. 

The series of comprehensive monographs published by Gegenbaur 
from 1864 to 1892 constitutes the foundation for a critical comparative 
anatomical method based on an immense amount of material. The 
most important of these, beyond (juestion. is the monograph on the 
Cranial Skeleton of the Selachians, published in 1872, a treatise 
on our knowledge of the relationships of the schools of the A'er- 
tebrates. The Avell-known vertebral theory advanced by Oken and 
Goethe, which Avas no longer defensible in its earlier form, is here 
revised and enlarged into a comprehensive segment theory concern- 
ing the head of the A'ertebrate applicable to different organic 
systems. 

In a similar manner Gegenbaur worked out from the beginning 
almost the entire morphology of the vertebrate skeleton, in his 
Observations on the ComparatiA^e Anatomy of the Vertebrate Col- 
unms in Am]>hibians and Reptiles (18G2), in his paper on Carpus 
and Tarsus (1804), on the Shoulder Girdle (18G5)-, and on the 
Occipital Region of Fishes (1887). He had mastered also, as no 
other naturalist, the material relating to the subject of A'ertebrate 
morphology, and he imparted this knowledge in many unsurpassed 
text-books prepared and published by him: in his Elements of Com- 
parative Anatomy, Avhich first appeared in 1850, of Avhich a second 
edition Avas issued in 1870, and Avhich Avas later published in a con- 
densed form, in 1874, as the Fundamental Principles of Comparative 
Anatomy (second edition, 1878) : and finally, in his most important 
text -book, Avhich embraced his further studies for ten years and rep- 



CAKL GEGENBAUR. 789 

rosentod a coinpoiuliiini of his life's rosoarclics. the Coiiiparativo 
AnatoiHV of tho Vortohratos as Compared with (he Iiivcrtchi-alcs. 
Of this 'xreal work. -Aliich Go<>(Mil)aur had I he ph'asiii-c of s('('iii<; 
completed in the closiiio- years of his life, the first voliiinc appeared 
in 1898, anil the second in 1001, oidy two years i)efore his death. 

Bnt (Jeji-enbaur was not only a successfnl natnralist; he was also. 
until the time of his death, an ardent teacher of hnni;in anatomy, 
and was very popular with his pupils. This all'orded him oppoi-- 
tunity also to connnunicate the fruits of his scientific endeavors for 
the advancement of anatomical study. There was such a demand 
for his text-book of human anatomy that, published in 1883, it had 
already reached its sixth edition in ISDC. Convinced of the hiofh 
didactic value of the genetic method, he endeavored with its assist- 
ance to add to the interest of the study of the human body and make 
many of its relationships better understood, lie desired, as set forth 
by him in the fourth edition, "' through its application to anatomical 
stud}' to illuminate it." '' Teaching means unfolding," as he tersely 
adds. 

Although (jegenbaur did not possess the brilliant style of a Ilyrtl, 
and although his descriptions were often tedious and sometimes 
difficult to comprehend, his text-book, on account of the substantial 
nature of its contents, immediately obtained a wide circulation 
among students, as is best attested by the rai)idly appearing succes- 
sive editions. 

The biography of so distinguished a personality as (iregenbaur is 
always of interest to his contemporaries and to posterity, and there 
will doubtless be a number of biographical notices relating prin- 
cipally to his scientific accomplishments, (iegenbaur himself has 
given us, however, a small pamphlet with the title " Erlebtes un<i 
Erstrebtes " (Life and Strife), a concise autobiography, the prepara- 
tion of which gives evidence of approaching feebleness and retire- 
ment from active service of the great savant, who no longer possessed 
his accustomed vigor. 

Carl Gegenbaur Avas born in Wiirzburg, on August 21, 1821), and 
Avas the son of an official of good position. In consequence of vari- 
ous assignments of his father, he spent the earlier years of his youth 
in "Weissenburg in Middle Franconia, and later in Arnstein in the 
Rhon ^Mountains. Here in rural surroundings Avas developed the 
foundation for his deep interest in nature, which was always a' 
prominent characteristic. 

Gegenbaur secured his preparatory training in AViii/,l»urg. where 
he graduated in 1845. In his biography he characterizes classic 
literature as "the true friend" of his life's career, since he was then, 
as ahvays, a decided op[)onent of the movement for reform by the 
curtailing of classical studies. 



79(3 CARL GEGENBAUR. 

At llic age of ID Gegenbaur entered upon the study of medicine 
and natural science at the University of Wiirzburg, somewhat 
against tlie Avishes of his parents, thougli with the idea already con- 
ceived of later becoming a naturalist. It was fortunate for him 
that just at the time that he took up his studies, Wiirzburg had its 
most l)rilliant era in medical science. K()lliker and Virchow, two 
world-renowned men of science, were there, in their jDrime, as were 
also such excellent assistants as Leydig and Heinrich Miiller. 

After attaining the doctor's degree (April 15, 1851), for which 
he competed with Kiilliker, and after com])leting his medical studies, 
Gegenbaur could not make up his mind to enter upon the practice 
of medicine, although he had served for a few semesters as assist- 
ant to his friend Friedreich on the resident staff of the Julius hos- 
pital. It was his ardent desire to become a naturalist and to enter 
upon a university career. Before he installed himself as private 
instructor, liowever, he experienced what he himself terms in his 
autobiography, a " period of wandering j'ears." lie journeyed 
through North Germany, where in Berlin he made the acquaintance 
of Johannes Miiller. He pursued hurriedly for some Aveeks a study 
of the marine animals of* Helgoland, and then embarked on an 
important scientific journey to Italy and Sicily, in Avhich he was 
encouraged hy K<")11iker, who himself Avas undertaking Avith Heinrich 
Miiller certain zoological investigations in Messina. After SAvitzer- 
land and Italy had been traA'ersed, Gegenbaur arriA'ed Avith his 
friends in Messina, and occupied the fall and Avinter months in a 
zoological study of jNIessina's Avonderful sea fauna. A journey 
through Sicily, folloAved by prolonged stays in Naples, Kome, and 
northern Italy, brought the " Avandering years " to a close. Avhich 
period, according to his OAvn statement, constitutes an im])ortant 
e])och in the life of the great savant. 

I In 1854 Gegenbaur Avas installed in AViirzbui-g as private in- 
structor of the medical faculty, and taught for three sessions the 
subject of zoology. 

Fi'om here he Avas called as early as 1856 as extraordinary pro- 
fessor to Jena, as successor to Oscar Schmidt, and as soon thereafter 
the famous anatomist Iluschke dietl, he succeeded to the latter's 
position as regular professor of human anatomy in the medical 
faculty, Avhich position he occupied until his call to Heidelberg in 

•1873. " Jena," Gegenbaur states in his autobiography, " Avas for 
me in every respect a high school, in Avhich I receiA-ed knoAvledge 
in many directions, and eA'erything Avhich I have later accomplished 
liad there its origin and gives me reason for lasting thanks. I regard 
it as most fortunate for me to have remained for so long a time in 
Jena in my youth, the influence of which stay is indelibly impressed 
upon me." 



CARL GEGENBAUR. 791 

On the reconimendation of Gegenbaur, Ernst Ilaeckel was also 
appointed a private instructor in Jena. Between these two natural- 
ists, Avorking- along- the same lines, each in his own way as an ener- 
getic promoter of Darwin's new doctrine of evolution, there grew a 
lirm friendship, which is testified to in glowing words by Ilaeckel in 
the introduction to his General Morphology. 

In Jena the writer had the good fortune, as a student in the first 
medical semester, to become somewhat intimately acquainted with 
these two closely associated great naturalists, receiving instructions 
in anatomy and zoology, and being prepared by them in various ways 
for his later vocation, for which aid he will ever feel thankful. 

Although united by many bonds to Jena, Gegenbaur, though only 
after long hesitation, accepted the call to lleidel])erg as successor of 
Arnold (1873). '' It carried him to the south, whence he had come." 
Other calls Avhich followed later, to Amsterdam and to the newly- 
established university at Strassburg, were declined. He possessed, 
however, in Heidelberg everything that he could wish — a limited 
course of instruction in a magnificently equipped university, which in 
the nwre congenial southern part of Germany gave him leisure for 
uninterrupted progressive scientific work; and in his own home a 
happy family life which came from his marriage in Jena, after the 
death of his first wife, to the daughter of the anatomist Arnold. 

The great naturalist was in all respects an admirable man, who 
quickly gained the love and respect of all with whom he became in 
any wise intimately associated. Resolute and uninfluenced by super- 
ficial things, he held firml}' to that which he had by close scrutiny 
found to be true and just. Exacting with himself and others, he 
sought in close application to his work the happiness of life. Though 
evincing a warm and generous appreciation of the beautiful things in 
nature and art. he was naturally of a retiring disposition, inclined to 
avoid social gatherings, and only occasionally attended congresses and 
scientific meetings. Easily repelled by strangers, and at times per- 
haps harsh and inconsiderate, yet he possessed a sympathetic spirit, 
which often showed itself in most unexpected ways to those intimately 
known to him. For this reason, Gegenbaur's assistants Avere attached 
to him with rare love and devotion, and under his leadership felt 
themselves firmly bound to his school of morphology. 



I X T) E X 



A. 

I'nge. 

Abbot, C. G. , on C( ^^>lostat and tek--foi»e 91 

on solar constant of radiation !)1 

report on astrophysical work 7H 

Abbott, W. L., donations by 28, 42, 44 

Aboriginal ruins, preservation of 51, 573 

Acts and resolutions of Congress relative to the Institution lxix 

Adams, Robert, jr., Regent of the Institution \iv, \v, x vii, xviii, xix 

reappointed Regent .'i 

Adams, W. Irving fj:j, 68 

Adler, Cyrus, delegate to International Congress of Education 25 

honorary curator 38 

librarian's report of 87 

Aerodrome, Langley, experiments with 113 

Africa, railroads in .' 721 

Age, old 533 

Aguilera, Jose G 106 

Alaskan mammoth expedition 16 

American aborigines, painting of human bones by 607 

American Archaeology, International Connnission on 21 

its contributions to human history 551 

American Exploration Society, explorations of 559 

American H istorical Association, re{)ort of 98 

Americanists, Fourteenth International Congress of 24 

Anderson, E. M. , collection from 41 

Andrews, Wallace C, statement concerning will of 4 

Angell, James B., Regent of the Institution xiv, xv, xvii, xix, 2 

representative of Institution at University of Wisconsin ... 27 

Appropriations for year 15J04-5 12 

Arabian horses -162 

Archjeological and Historical Federation of Belgium, Congress of 25 

Archjeological researches on frontier of Argentina and Bolivia 573 

Arch;eology, American, contributions to human history 551 

Archaeology of Pueblo region, a general view of •">"3 

Architecture, Chinese '" ' 

Argentina, arcb^ological researches in ^'•'> 

Assistant Secretary of Institution mii, 37 

Astronomical researcii, application of photography to 1(1 

Aetrophysical Observatory, appropriations l\xi 

b'olometer "•♦ 

exhibit at St. Ix)uis 26,78,102 

forecasts of temperature 81 

793 



794 



INDEX 



Page. 

Astrophysical Observatory, horizontal telescope , . . SO 

improvements of apparatus at 79 

investigations at 78, 81, 83 

publications 98 

pyrheliometer 79 

receipts and expenditures lviii 

report of aid in charge 78 

Secretary's report on 34 

sun's ijossible variability 81 

transmission of solar envelope 85 

Atmosphere, metals in the 235 

d' Avenues, E. Prisse, on Egyptian and Arabian horses 457- 

Avery fund, statement concerning status of 4 

B. 

Bailey, Vernon, collection from 41 

Baker, Arthur B., on breeding Itlack bears 92 

Baker, Carl F., on American Siphonaptera 97 

Barber, Herbert S. , on Hemiptera-Heteroptera 97 

Barlow, J. W. , donations from 40 

Bartsch, Paul, on herons 92 

Barus, Carl, on ionization and nucleation of air 13 

Bassler, R. S 3,S 93 

Bean, Barton A 42, 93, 96 

Beckwith, Paul E. , assistant curator 38 

Bees and flowers 469 

Bell, A. Graham, Regent of the Institution xiv, xvii, xviii, lxvii, lxix, 2, 3 

conmiittee to take charge of removal of Smithson remains., xvi, 

XX, XXI, 3 

remarks on delivering Smithson remains to Regents 9 

remarks on removal of Smithson remains from Genoa 8 

resolution of Regents thanking xviii 

Benedict, James E. , papers by- 96 97 

Bemis, Florence E. , on the Aleyrodids of California 97 

Berry, F. V 68 

Berthier, A., on some new modes of lighting 267 

Bird life in British Papua > 413 

Bird sanctuaries of New Zealand 419 

Bishop, William Henry ^ xvi, xxi, xxii, xxvi, 38 

Blaney, Dwight, collection from 41 

Boas, Franz 25 47, 51 

Bolivia, archicological i-esearches on frontiers of 573 

Bolometer 79 

Bolton, Henry Carrington, bibliograjihy of chemistry by 20, 92 

biography of 35 

Bone painting among Indians 607 

Bouvier, E. L., on bees and flowers 469 

J?oyd, Harriet A., on the excavations at Gournia, Crete 559 

British Papua, some bird life in 413 

Brockett, Paul, custodian 38 

Brown, E. J., collection from 40 

Brown, Ernest W., on George Gabriel Stokes 773 

Brown, Gen. Jacob, dress sword presented to 39 



INDKX. 7^>5 

Brown, N. C, collection from 40 

Huil(lin>r repairs, Muscuin cxpciulitiircs for i.iv 

Hureaii of American Ethnolo<ry, collections o2 

exposition work 47, lOH 

finances of .\ xxviii, i.xx 

library 51? 

t tfice work aO 

publications i,\ x, 5'_', 5H, 98 

report of Chief 4f) 

researches Ijy •"> 1 

Secretary's rejiort on -. 80 

Bureau of International Exchanges. {See International Exchange Service. ) 

Bureau of Ordnance, deposit iii National Museum 28 

Burnside, Helen Waldo, on Hodgkins fund 92 

Bushell, Stephen AV., on Chinese architecture 077 

Burr, William II., on the Panama Canal 737 

Busck, August, on Tineid moths from British Columl)ia 98 

C. 

Calcium flocculi, form and extent of 139 

minute strut'ture of l-^" 

nature of t 1 -^^ 

Cameos '^-^ 

Canadian glaciers, exploration of 1*^ 

Canal, Panama ~^' 

New York barge '51 

Caudell, Andrew Nelson, on Orthoptera 96, 98 

on the Phasmid* 96 

Ceylon, pearl fisheries of '^^'^ 

Chaffee, Adna R ^'-^^i 

Child, C. ]M. , on form regulation 92 

Children's room reproduced at St. Louis -' 

China, book exchanges with *^^ 

inquiry into the population of 659 

Chinese architecture ^" ' 

Clark, A. Howard, editor's report l)y ^'1 

honorary curator 3° 

Clark, Miss May S ^^ 

Clayton, J. B ^'f 

Cockrell, Francis M., Regent of the Institution xiv, xv, xvii, xviii, xix,2 

Color-l)lin(biess, hypothesis on the cause -"^^ 

Condensation nuclei 

Congressional acts relative to Institution i^^'-'^ 

Contril)utions of American archeology to human history 551 

Cook, O. F. , on the evolutionary signilicance of species 387 

Corcoran Gallery of Art ^'^ 

Correspondence during the fiscal year 1903-4 

Cortelyou, George B., member of the establishment >;i". - 

Court, E. J., donation by 

Coville, F. V "^^ 

55*4 
Crete, excavations at Gournia ' ' " 

51 
Culin, Stewart ' "^ 

Cullom, Shelby M., Regent of the Institution xiv, xv, xvii, xviii, xix,2 

Currie, RollaP ''^^•'^' 



796 INDEX. 

D. 

Page. 

Dall, William H 41 95 

Daguerreotype, history of 293 

Dastre, A., on the stature of man at various epochs 517 

Davenport, Charles B., on fresh- water Bryzoa 97 

Davenport, Cyril, on cameos 713 

Davenport, Homer, donation by 40 

Derby, 0. A., donation by 41 

DeVries, Hugo, on the evidence of evoluti< >n 389 

Dictionary of Indian tribes 31 

Dinsmore, Hugh A., Regent of the Institution xiv, xv, xvii, xviii, 2 

reappointed Regent 1904-1910 3 

Disbrow, W. S., donation by 42 

Disbursements for 1903-4, Secretary's report on 12 

detailed statement of xxxvii 

Discoveries of photography, history of some 287 

Ditte, Alfred, on the metals in the atmosphere 235 

Dorsey, J. Owen 50 

Dorsey, George A. , collection from 39 

Draper, Henry, on silvered glass telescope 18 91 

Dyar, Harrison G 42 98 

E. 

Eastman Kodak Company, donation by 40 

Economic conquest of Africa by the railroads 721 

Education, International Congress of 25 

Editor, report of 91 

Egyptian horses 457 

Eigenmann, Carl H., on South American fishes 92 

Electric welding development 281 

Elephant house lx i v 

Ellerman, Ferdinand, on the Rumford spectroheliograph 131 

Emmons, G. T. , donations by 28 

Emmons, S. F. , on theories of ore deposition 309 

Erie Canal : 751 

Establishment, members of the Smithsonian 2 

Estimates for year 1904-5 12 

Evermann, B. W 43 

Evolution, evidence of 389 

of the scientific investigator 221 

Evolutionary significance of species 387 

Ewart, J. Cossar, on the multiple origin of horses and ponies 437 

Excavations at Gournia, Crete 559 

Exchange of public documents, appropriation for lxix 

Executive committee of Regents xiv, xvii 

report of xxx v 

Expenditures, statement of xxx vi 

Experiments with the Langley aerodrome 113 

Exploration of Canadian glaciers KJ 

F. 

Faulhaber, C. , on the construction of large telescope lenses 163 

Fewkes, J. Walter 39, 43, 46, 47, 92 

Fischer, Theobald, on Morocco 355 



INDEX. 797 

Flint, Jaiuef* 31., on Cliincse nu'ilicin*- (t2 

Flujrel, Carl F. A., ajrent of the Institiitiim at J.eipzi;; :^2, (W 

1 tiography of 35 

" Flying-cage" exhibited by zoologieal i)ark at St. Louis 83 

Flying fishes, by Theodore Gill 4i>.T 

Fock, A., on the conquest of Africa l)y railroads 721 

Forecasts of temperature 82 

Fowke, Gerard 43 

Fowler, Henry \V., on the cattishes of Jai)an 96 

on Cyprinoid fishes of Japan 96 

Freslitield, Douglas W., on mountains and mankind ;!37 

Frye, William P., acting Regent of the Institution xiv, xv, xvii, xix, 2 

remarks at reception of Smithson remains xxix, 10 

Fuller, ~Sl. W., Chancellor of the Institution xiv, xv, xvii, xix, 2 

Fund, condition of Smithsonian xxxv 

Secretary's report on 11 

Furniture and fixtures, Museum expenditures for xiaiii 

G. 

Galleries, Museum expenditures for lvii 

Gatschet, A. S 51 

Gegenbauer, Carl, biography of , 7S7 

General considerations with regard to the Institution 5 

Geology, Ninth International Congress of 25 

Gibbons, J. H xxviii 

Gilbert, Charles H 43 

Gill, DeLancey 48,52 

Gill, ^Y.n...'. : 48 

Gill, Theodore, on fish genera named Macrodon 97 

on flying fishes 495 

on the Lamprididjc 96 

on some neglected genera of fishes 96 

on the Umbras 93 

Girty, Cieorge H., on new molluscan genera from the Carboniferous 98 

Glaciers, Smithsonian exploration of 16 

Goldsmith, J. S :« 

Goode, G. Brown, on American science 20 

Gorgas, W. C. , on sanitation of the Panama Canal Zone 745 

(iournia, excavations at 559 

Grabau, A. W., on the phylogeny of Fusus and its allies 20, 91 

( iray, George, Regent of the Institution xiv, xv, xvii, xix, 2 

Greene, E. D 45 

Greene, E. L., collection and library from 38, 41, 89 

Grosvenor, Gilbert H xxiv, xxix, xxx, xx \ i, xx xii, xxxiii 

lirubb, R. B., donations by -^ 

H. 

Habel, Simeon, bequest of xxxv 

Hahn, "Walter L ^^ 

Hale, George E., on the Rumford spectroheliograph 131 

Hallock, William, on composition of vowel sounds 14 

Hamilton, James, beque.st of xxxv 

Hampson, Sir George, collection from 41 

Haupt, Paul, delegate to Fourteenth International Congress of Orientalists ... 25 
Hay, John, mem])er of the establishment xiii. 2 



798 ii>fDEx. 

fdge. 

Heating ai)il liyrhting, IMuseuni expenditures for lii 

Heliograph y 287 

Henderson, John B., Regent of the Institution xiv, xvii, xviii, xix, lxvii, lxix, 2 

reappointed Regent 1904-1910 3 

Hendley, H. W 48 

Henshaw, H. AV 40 

Herdnian, W. A . , on the pearl fisheries of Ceylon 485 

Hertwig, Oscar, on Carl Gegenbauer 787 

Hewett, Edgar L. , on the archjeology of the Pueblo region 573 

Hewitt, J. N. B 50 

Hiersemann, Karl W., succeeds Fliigel at Leipzig 32, 63 

History, contributions of American archeology to human 551 

History of some discoveries in photography 287 

Hitchcock, Ethan Allen, member of the establishment xiir, 2 

Hitt, Robert R., Regent of the Institution xiv, xv, xvir, xviii, xix, lxvii, 2, 3 

Hodge, F. W 51 

Hodgkins fund xxxv 4 15 

history of, by H. W. Burnside 92 

Holmes, W. H 24, 38 45 92 

on American archeology and human history 551 

Hoi way, E. W. D. , collection from 41 

Horses, Arabian 462 

Egyptian 457 

Horses and ponies, the multiple origin of 437 

Hough, Walter 42 45 

House sparrow, American history of 423 

Howell, Arthur, collection by 41 

Hrdlicka, Ales, on painting of human bones among the Indians 607 

Human bones, the painting of, by Indians • 607 

Hunt, Robert, on history of photography 287 

Huntington, Frank 51 

Hydrogen fiocculi 142 

I. 

Imperial Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg 42 

Indian dictionary 51 

Indians, measurements of 52 

painting of human bones among 607 

Inorganic chemistry, present problems of 207 

International American Archaeological Commission 21 

Catalogue of scientific literature 21, 88 

Congress of Americanists 24 

of Education 25 

of Geology 25 

of Orientalists 25 

of Zoology 25 

Exchange List 95 

Exchange Service, correspondents 57 

exchange of Government documents 59 

finances of xxxvii, lxix 

list of correspondents 63 

depositories 66 

report of acting curator 55 

Secretary's report on 31 



INDEX. 799 

J. 

Janibiinathan, N. , folleotion from 41 

Jenings, Fos^ter II., on Korean headdresses lt'_' 

Jenkins, O. V -i.i 

Johnston, Harriet Lane, art eolleetion w, 5 

Johnston, J. B., makes application for seat at Naples table 15 

Jonassohn, Oscar T. , donation b}' 42 

Jordan, David Starr, papers by 02, 9.3, 9ti, 97, 98 

Joiiet, Cavalier II., on literatnre of Thorinm 20,91 

Journal of Terrestrial Magnetism and Atmospheric Electricity 14 

K. 

Kahlbaum, G. W. A., on variations of specific gravity 2(il 

King, Charles A ''8 

Kishinouye, K., donations by 41 

Klages, r^dward A., collection from 41 

Klingelfuss, Fr., on a lightning spiral ol)served near Basel 259 

Knox, Philander C, member of the establishment xiii, 2 

Krause, F., on sling contrivances for projectile weapons 019 

von Kries, theory of vision --19 

L. 

Langley, S. P., on experiments with the aerodrome 113 

on James f^niithson -'5 

on method of avoiding personal equation 92 

on removal of Smithson remains 93 

on 1900 solar eclipse expedition 98 

Secretary of Board of Kegents xv, .\vii, xviii, xix 

Secretary's report on the Institution 1-107 

Lees, Noe! - x-^', x^'b ■^>^"'. xxvi, 9 

von Lendenfeld, R., on motion of birds in flight 1-1 

on relation of wing surface to weight 1^7 

Lewis and Clark Exposition i.xxiii. 2 (,45 

Liberty, Arthur L., on pewter "93 

Librarian, report of ^' 

Library of Congress, Smithsonian deposit i-^ '-"^ 

Lighting, some new modes of -"' 

Lightning spiral observed near Basel -'^9 

Lippincott, J. B. , on the Yuma reclamation project 383 

Louisiana Purchase Exposition, True's report on Smithsonian exhibit 100-107 

Lowe, H. N., donation by "*^ 

Luca.s, F. A., papersby 88,92,93,97,104 

Lummer, O., on vision and on color blindness -"^9 

Lydekker, R., on Tibetan animals "^^^ 

Lyon, Marcus W., jr -•'^' ^^ 

M. 

McGee, W J ----- "**' 

McGregor, R. C, donation by ^^ 

McGuire, J. D '^^'^^ 

McKim, Dr. Randolph H : ^^ 

Maddren, A. G., expedition to Alaska ^^ 

Maire, Albert, on writing materials ^-^^ 



800 INDEX. 

Page. 

Maltbie, Milo R., on rapid-transit subways 759 

Man's stature at various epochs 517 

Mascha, E., on structure of bird's wing feathers 14 

Mason, Otis T - 44, 45, S9 

Materials useil to write upon before the invention of printing »io9 

Maver, AVilliani, jr., on progress in wireless telegraphy 275 

Maxon, William li 98 

Mearns, E. A 28,43 

Mechanical flight, researches in 13 

Merriam, C. Hart 44 

Merrill, George P 42,92 

Metals in the atmosphere 235 

Metchnikoff, Elie, on old age 533 

Meyer, A. B 45 

Miller, Gerrit S. , jr 25, 42, 91 , 97 

Morocco, description of 355 

Moody, William H. , member of the establishment xiii, 2 

Mooney, James 43, 46, 4S 

Mountains and mankind 337 

Multiple origin of horses and ponies 437 

N. 

Naples table, lease renewed 15 

National Gallery of Art x x 

National Museum, additions to collections :■ 28, 39 

exchanges 43 

exhibit at St. Louis 103 

finances of - x ii 

library 45,89 

meetings and lectures 44 

new building for 4, 27 

publications 44 

report by Assistant Secretary in charge of 37 

researches 43 

Secretary's report on 27 

sectional libraries 89 

visitors 44 

National Zoological Park, animals in 71, 73, 76 

elephant house in i-xiv 

exhil)it at St. Louis 72, 102 

finances of lx, lxxi 

important losses 71 

new house for mammals 70 

report of Superintendent 69 

Secretary's report on 32 

readjustment of boundaries 72 

Necrology 35 

Needham, James G., on new dragon-fly nymphs. 98 

Nelson, E. W 44 

New Zealand, bird sanctuaries of 419 

Newcomb, Simon, on the evolution of the scientific investigator 221 

Newell, F. H., on work of reclamation service - 373 

Nichols, F. S., Mrs ---•- ^ 



INDKX. 801 

Nuflei, coiKlenwition !'.•'> 

Nurse, C. (i., collection from 41 

Nutting, C ('., on Scrtularian liy(ln>i(lH 4.") 

(>. 

Oberholser, Harry C"., papers by ',)7, Its 

Official vehicles, lettering of i.x.vii 

( )1<1 age ^y'i-i 

Olmsted, F. J. 70 

Olney, Richard, Regent of the Institution \iv, w, x\ ii, xi\, 2 

Ore depositions, theories of TO!) 

Orientalists, International Congress of 25 

Osborn, Henry F 44 

Outes, Felix F. , donations by ;^S> 

P. 

Painting of human bones among the American aborigines tiOT 

Panama Canal, present aspects of "!'»7 

Panama Canal Zone, sanitation of 745 

Paper, history of 655 

Papyrus 653 

Parchment 651 

Payne, Henry C, mendjer of the establishment mm, 2 

Pearl fisheries of Ceylon -^^ 

Pellegrin, A. L,, donation by -il 

Pennsylvania Railroad, donation by -1*^ 

Pewter and the revival of its use 69:-$ 

manufacture of '05 

de Pevster, Watts, Collection, additions to 20 

Phalen, W. C 38,92,93 

Photography, history of some discoveries 287 

its application to astronomical research 1 "1 

Pinchot, < iifford ^^ 

Piper, C. v., collection from "^1 

Piatt, Orville H., Regent of the Institution xiv, xv, xvii, xviii, \i\, 2 

Plunimer, Fred, (i "^^ 

Pohndorf, A. P., donation by "^- 

Pollard, Louis '^^ 

Population of China, Rockhiil on 659 

Power house for public buildings *■ lxxh 

Poynting, J. H., on radiation in the solar system 18.-) 

Prentiss, D. W., description of an extinct mink ''6 

Preservation of aboriginal ruins •"•' 

collections. Museum expenditures for >:'■' 

Printing and binding, Museum expenditures for '•'" 

Projectile weapons, sling contrivances for ''■' 

Pul)lications, distribution of ''' 

,. , III 

editor s report on _ _ 

Pueblo region, preservation of ruins in •^' ■ 

Purchase of specimens, Museum expenditures for ' ^■" 

Pusev, M. J., collection from "^' 

79 
Pyrheliometer 

SM 1904 51 



802 INDEX. 

Q. 

Page. 
(.iuaTtt-rly issue of SmithHOiiian miscellaneous collections 19 

R. " 

Radiation in the solar system 1 85 

Railroads, African 721 

Rali)h, W. L., donations ])y 40 

Kamsay, Sir William, on present problems of inorganic chemistry 207 

Rapid-transit subways in metropolitan cities 759 

Rathbun, Richard, Assistant Secretary of Institution xiu, 37 

Receipts, statement of .- xxx vi 

Reclamation service, the work of 373 

Regents of the Institution xiv 

organization of the board in 1904 2 

proceedings of meetings of x v, 2 

Rehn, James A. G 97 

Reid bequest, statement concerning 4 

Rent of workshops. Museum expenditures for '. liii 

Richardson, Harriet, on the Isopoda 97, 98 

Riley, J. H 42 

Ritchey, George W., on reflecting telescope 18, 91 

Rockhill, W. W., on the population of China 059 

Roosevelt, Theodore, member of the establishment xiii, 2 

von Rosen, Eric, on archeological researches in Argentina and Bolivia 573 

Rumford spectroheliograph of Yerkes Observatory 131 

S. 

St. Clair, H. H., 2d 46,50 

Sanitation of the Panama Canal Zone 745 

Schuchert, Charles 25, 42 

on K. A. von Zittel 779 

Schumann, Victor, on the absorption and emission of gases 14, 91 

Sch warz, E. A 41, 97 

Scientific investigator, evolution of the 221 

Scripture, E. VV., on the ** vowel organ " 13 

Scudder, Samuel H., collection from 41 

Secretary of the Institution xiii 

animal rejiort to Regents xvii, 1 

Sectional 1 libraries 89 

Seton-Karr, H. W., donations by 39 

Shaler, N. S., on features of the earth and moon 17, 91 

Sharpe, Richard W., on fresh- water Ostracoida 97 

Shattuck, G. P. 42 

Shaw, Leslie I\I., member of the establishment xiii, 2 

Sherzer, W. H., exploration of glaciers 16 

Sickler, F. M., donation by 42 

Skinner, J. ()., on the house sparrow 423 

Sling contrivances for projectile weapons 619 

Smedes, Miss E. R 54 

Smillie, T. W 287 

Smith, Eugene A., ilonation liy 42 

Smith, Hugli M ." 40, 43, 93 

Smithson remains, committee appointe<l for transfer xvi 



INUKX. 803 

riiiitlison remains, fxliiuiiatioii of vm 

littiiig tomb ivi'omniendeil •"> 

reception at New York x.wm, xxxi 

reception at Smithsonian Institntion xxviii 

reeei)tion at Washinj-ton Navy-Yard xxxii 

rejjort of committee on disposition of xx 

repi>rt of committee on transfer .win, xx 

Secretary's rejwrt on their removal 7 

Smitiisonian deposit, Lilirary of Congress i.xix, L'O 

Smithsonian Institntion, condition of fund July 1, 1904 xxxv 

detailed statement of disbursements xxxvii 

establishment v'n 

exhibit at St. i.ouis 2(1, 101 

receii)ts and expenditures xxxvi 

Regents of >: ' v 

report of executive conuuiftee xxxv 

Solar envelope, transmission of ^^ 

Solar radiation ^4, 185 

Sparrow, the house ^^23 

Species, evolutionary signiticanee of 387 

Specific gravity, variations of 261 

Spectra, experiments with bright 254 

Spectroheliograph, the Rumford 131 

Sponville, Juarez, donation by 41 

Sprague bequest, statement concerning 4 

Stanton, W. A., collection from 41 

Starks, Edwin C 9;^, 97, 98 

Stature of man at vari( ms ejiochs - 517 

Stevenson, Mrs. M. C 43, 46, 49 

Stewart, Alvan -^S 

Stokes, Sir George Gabriel 773 

Sun's possible variability ^^ 

Swanton, J. R ". ^'^ 46, 47" 49 

Stearns, R. E. , donation by 40 

Stebl)ing, Thomas R. R., on A'rphipoda from Costa Rica 96 

Steere, J. B = 45 

Stejneger, Leonhard 25, 42, 45 

Subways, rapid transit in cities 759 

Symons, Thomas W., on the New York Barge Canal 751 

Synder, John O., papers by 92, 97, 98 

T. 

Taft, William H., member of the establishment xiii, 2 

Tall)ot's photogenic drawings 291 

Ta-^-^in, Wirt, on the J'ersinunon Creek meteorite 98 

Taylor, H. C >:x>;"i 

Telescope, horizontal ^^ 

Telescope lenses, construction of 163 

Telescope, reflecting 18, 91 

Thomas, Cyrus ^1 

Thompson, J. C, donation by 40 

Thomson, Elihu, on electric welding development 281 

Tibetan animals 429 



804 INDEX. 

Page 

Tovvnsend, Charles H 44 

Trask, Mrs. Blanche, donation by 41 

Travels, M. W., on attainment of very low temperatures 14, 20, 92 

True, F. W 18, 91 , 92, 97, 104 

representative of Institution at Lewis and Clark Exposition 27 

Louisiana Purchase Exposition . . 25, 100 

Tsuchida, T. , collection from 40 

Turner, H. H., on the api)lication of photography to astronomical research .. 171 

r. 

Ulrich, E. O., on Paleozoic Bryzoa 93 

Unger, C. W., donation by 42 

University of Wisconsin, congratulations extended to 27 

V. 

Variations of specific gravity 261 

V'i.ion in brightness and darkness, observations on 249 

Vision, recent anatomical discoveries relating to 250 

Vivian, R. A., on bird life in British Papua 413 

W. 

Walther, Henry 53 

Waters, C. E 44 

Weapons, sling contrivances for projectile 6J9 

Wharton, J. R., donation by 42 

White, Andrew D., Regent of the Institution xiv, xv, xvii, xix, 2 

Williams, Gardner F., donations by 41 

Williams, Mrs. T. A., collection from 41 

Wilson, Charles Branch, on Argulus 98 

Wilson, C. T. R., on condensation nuclei 195 

Wilson, James, member of the establishment xiii, 2 

Wing surface, its relation to weight 127 

Wireless telegraphy, progress in 275 

Work of the reclamation service 373 

Workshops, Museum expenditures for rent of liii 

Writing, materials used for 639 



Yerkes Observatory, the Rumford spectroheliograph at 131 

Yuma reclamation project 383 

Z. 

Zahin, A. F., grant to l^ 

'•on Zittel, Karl Alfred 779 

Zoology, yixth International Congress on 25 



nc 






x 

^ 



NOIiniliSNI_ NVINOSHIIWS'^SH I d V^ 8 I l^LI B RAR f Es'^SMITHSONIAN^INSTITI 

^ - ^ vj — 




LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVINOSHilWS S3 Id VI 

'" -z. r- 2 





- <« - — CO _ 

NOIinillSNI NVINOSHIIWS S3ldVdan LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITU 

C/3 Z ., CO 

^^^ - - ■ '- 4^. . 

CO 2 CO * 2: CO 

LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVINOSHIIWS S3iaV 

CO ^ CO — CO 

cc: . ^ -I /?^' ■ -^Mit^ or /p:^^"'^^ li .^^v-^^ (XL 





o 
NOIinillSNI~'NVINOSHllNS S3 I d Vd 8 n~'LI B RAR I ES^SMITHSONIAN INSTITU 







-IBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVINOSHIIWS S3ldV 
> SQ. ^ z ♦ CO z (/J . 

M0linillSNI_NVIN0SHims'^S3 I d Vd a n^LI B RAR I Es'^SMITHSONIAN^INSTITU 
z \ t^ ^ 5 CO 

-=^ -J 2 — _j Z 

LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIinillSNI NVINOSHIIWS S3ldVi8 
z r- z r- ._ z 




CO 





> 
NOIinillSNI NVINOSHlllMS S3 I d Vd 8 n~LI B R AR I Es'^SMITHSONIAN INSTITUfl 

Z CO Z ..- CO 2 





•^' z in '"' "Z t/5 -^ 

liniliSNI_NVINOSHlllNS S3 I d Vd 8 n_LI B R AR I ES SMlTHSONIAN_lNSTlTUTli 

_ _ Z _l 2 

BRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIiniliSNI NVINOSHillNS S3iyVdJ 

~ z C - ^ 

00 

_ t/i £ (/) - _ 

DiiniiisNi NViNOSHiiiNS S3iavyan libraries Smithsonian institut 

z w z - .- ^ z .-^ 

^*^ ^ z CO * z CO 

IBRARIES smithsonian_institution NoiiniiiSNi_NViNosHims S3iava 





/'//y'l /^ 






DIinillSNl"'NVlN0SHimS^S3 I H VH 8 h'^LI B R AR I ES^SMITHSONIAN~|lNSTITUT 
r— \» Z r- Z ^ 

CO = CO £ <^ 

IBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIiniliSNI NVINOSHimS S3IHVy 
CO z » CO z ^ 





jiv f:j 



oiiniiiSNi MviN0SHiit^s'^S3iyvyan libraries Smithsonian institut 

— - CO — CO — 





CO 




CO 




IBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOIiniliSNI NVINOSHimS S3iyvy 




JOIiniliSNirNIVINOSHill/NS S3 I H VH 9 n~LI B R AR i ES^^SMITHSONIAN INSTITUl 
Z CO z . - -• ^ z 




3 9088 00944 9331 



